
VOL. XXIII NO. 103 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1991 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush declares: 'The war is now behind us' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush declared Wednesday night that "Kuwait is liberated, Iraq's army is defeated" and announced that at midnight "all United States and coalition forees will suspend offensive combat operations." 
In a dramatie televised ad­dress. Bush warned the fighting would begin anew if Iraq's OPERATION forees-shattered and in re­

DESERT STORM 

tnmt-fired on allied troops or laun'ehed Seud missiles at lsnwl and Saudi Arabia. 
"This war is now behind us." 
• Bush speech I page 9

thH president said. "Ahead of us is thn diiTicult task of seeuring a • Iraqi compliance I page 8 potentially historic peace." • Schwarzkopf I page 9 
The eessation of oiTensive ac­• U.S. hero I page 9 tion eamn 1ifter a tank battle in • Post-war scenarios I page 8 southern Iraq ended any seri­ous threat from Iraq's bally­mines. hooed Hepublican Guard. 
Moreover, he said Baghdad"It is up to Iraq whether the must bow to all the demands of suspension on the part of the the United Nations, including a 
eoalition becomes a permanent 
formal rescinding of the an­

cease fire," Bush said, adding 
nexation of Kuwait and AP Photo later: "If Iraq violates these 
"acceptance in principal of A motorist in Dubai holds a special afternoon edition of the Gulf News, which was published in response
terms, coalition forces will be 
Iraq's responsibility to pay Tuesday to Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's radio address from Baghdad telling his troops to pull out of f~ee t!> resume military opera­compensation for the loss, Kuwait. Bush's declaration of a cease-fire Wednesday instilled greater hope for peace in the region.tiOns. damage and injury its aggres-· 
Bush said the allied forces sion has caused." ican flag flies above our em­He began his address simply. mander in chief of 537,000would implement a permanent So far, Saddam Hussein has bassy" in Kuwait City. "Kuwait is liberated," Bush American forces in the gulf, cease fire once Iraq releases all refused to agree to all of those Bush made his said. "Iraq's army is defeated. and the head of an unprece­
coalition prisoners of war, terms. 
announcement on the 42nd day Our military objectives are dented international coalitionhostages of third-country na­
After 100 hours of ground of the conflict with Iraq -209 met." He said it was not time marshalled to counter Saddamtions and the remains of all war, Bush said, "Tonight, the days after Saddam triggered for gloating or euphoria, but for Hussein's invasion of Kuwait on
who have fallen. Iraq also must Kuwaiti flag once again flies the Gulf crisis by sending an pride in the troops of thetell Kuwaiti officials Of the lo­above the capital of a free and 
invading army into Kuwait to coalition.
cation of all land and sea 
sovereign nation and the Amer-seize it as "province 19." The president spoke as com-see PEACE I page 8 

Arts and Letters dean resigns 
Special to The Observer 
"Mike's leadership of the col­
lege has been characterized by 
Michael Loux. I. A. energy and imagination," O'Shaughnessy Dean of the O'Meara said. "He has signifi­University of Notre Dame's cantly raised the college's stan­College of Arts and Letters dards in hiring, promotion and since 1983, will leave the dean­tenure, effectively pled the case ship before the start of the for increased resources and 1991-92 academic year, ac­identified strong leadership to cording to Provost Timothy chair the college's departments. O'Meara. Loux, a professor of "At the same time," O'Meara philosophy, will return to Notre said, "Mike is a distinguished Dame's philosophy department. philosopher and a superb 
"In every way, the College of teacher." Arts and Letters is immeasur­Loux is the author of seven ably better as a result of the books and the recipient of two leadership of Mike Loux," University awards for excel­
Michael Loux 

O'Meara said. "Both his effec­lence in teaching. Prior to being tiveness and my personal en­Loux's leadership, and in the named dean, he served as joyment in working with him past six years college faculty chairman of the philosophy de­leave me torn by his decision, members have been awarded partment and as its director of but I appreciat1~ his wish to give 19 independent research grants undergraduate studies. A spe­his full attention to his first by the National Endowment for cialist in metaphysics, Greek love-philosophy." the Humanities-the fifth best philosophy and the philosophy Arts and Letters is the largest record in the nation among pri­of language, the St. Paul, Minn., college in the University, with a vate universities. native joined the Notre Dame current enrollment of 2,558 Also during his tenure, exter­faculty in 1968 after receiving undergraduates, more than 320 nal funding in the humanities his doctorate from the Univer­
faculty positions, and 17 de­and social sciences has grown sity of Chicago. partments in the humanities, almost tenfold, to $1.9 million the social seiences and the fine annually, and the University In accordance with University and performing arts. has raised more than $3 million procedures, O'Meara will chair 
Eighteen endowed faculty in endowment to support fac­a search committee elected to chairs have been filled under ulty research in the college. find a successor to Loux. 

Junior, sophomore class election results posted 
the dorms, the word-of­

By DAVID KINNEY 
mouth campaign." 
News Writer 
"We're anxious to get started," said Vogt. TheIn runoffs held 
group plans to take an ac­
Wednesday, the Dave 
tivities survey of the junior 
Cathcart ticket defeated 
class. "Our publicity andthe Shawn Duffy ticket for 
communication will
junior class office while the definitely be better," sheDavid Reinke ticket beat continued.
the Kevin Jerich ticket to Miller, of the Duffy ticket,take the sophomore class said that "considering theoffice. 
time and effort planning,
Cathcart and running 
and the commitment our mates Andrea Auyer, Tom ticket put into this cam­Fellrath and Jennie O'Hea paign, I really think we de­dominated the voting, cap­served to win. Either theturing almost 62 percent, voters didn't realize this­or 645 votes. The runners­or didn't care." 
up, Shawn Duffy, Sonia 
"Apathy ran strong,"
Miller, Kathleen Vogt and added Duffy.
Robbie Hennings, received In the sophomore class38 percent, or 396 votes. 
elections, the Reinke, EllenThe number of juniors-to­Hujarski, Jack Howard and be voting was 1,043. 
Cathy Miller ticket took ap­"We're not going to let 
proximately 62 percent,
down the people who sup­
for 698 votes, defeating
ported us this past week," 
the Kevin Jerich, Kenyasaid Cathcart. "We 
Johnson, Dave Hoeffel and

definitely couldn't have succeeded without the support of all the people in see VOTE I page 6 
Bulgarian delegation observes U.S. education system 
By MONICA YANT he said. The study tour is designed to staff members on The Observer. dom, the result of a 1990 par­Associate News Editor Yet the 25-year-old physics examine how principles of The group also scheduled to liamentary decree that made student from Bulgaria had no openness, creative initiative meet with members of SUFR the university an autonomous 
Alexander Dimitrov had a trouble seeing one feature at and democracy can be and Peace Studies students in institution. hard time believing the gold Notre Dame that he would introduced and developed in order to gain a better under­Student demonstrations call­
layers on the Administration gladly take home: academic university education in standing of freedom of expres­ing for democratization in both Building were necessary for a freedom. Bulgaria. sion. national and university gover­
university setting. Dimitrov is part of a delega­During their visit to Notre With the recent wave of nance temporarily closed down 
"I was impressed by the tion of seven students from Dame this week, the Bulgarians changes in Eastern Europe, the the school in July, and again in buildings and surroundings, Sofia University which is visit­discussed issues like admis­Bulgarian education system has November. One demand, in-but it does not seem necessary ing universities in the United sions policies with the Office of seen tremendous renovations. for a university to have so States to examine various Undergraduate Admissions and The emerging focus at Sofia 
see BULGARIA I page 6
much. It's more for showiness," aspects of academic freedom. freedom of campus media with University is on academic free­
Thursday, February 28, 1991
page 2 The Observer 
FORECAST: 

Cloudy and warmer today, partly cloudy in the afternoon. Highs from the lower to mid 40s. Partly cloudy tonight with lows in the middle 30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Conquering the dreaded D-6 lot 
Last night I dreamed of a world where cars did not need parking. They could stay running until we called them to service by snapping our fingers. Everyone was happy and then... reality check. 
It was morning and I Christine Stephan realized my car would not News Copy Editor come to me. I would have to go to the parking lot-and not just any parking lot-the Dreaded D-6 Parking Lot. Though my knees were shaking I walked 
calmly from my dorm, trying desperately not to think of the terrors that lay ahead. I think I can. I think I can. But all of the sudden, fear 
swept through me as I realized I had left my Super-Reinforced Rubble Protector Boots™ at home. 
I couldn't walk through the lot with mere gym shoes. The cement craters were too big; I was sure to break an ankle, or maybe trip and save the ankle but break my neck instead. And the possibility of seeing blood was certainly not out of the question. 
My heart beat faster and faster until I passed the Security building and gazed over the horrible wasteland of sad automobiles and even sadder humans. Pain stirred within me. 
And then... momentary relief. For now,I would not have to contend with the mighty cement demons; it had snowed last night. The pot-holes that had proved such a challenge in the past had been filled with melted snow. Today, I could swim to my car. 
I lowered my goggles over my eyes and descended the stairs to the Dreaded D-6 Parking Lot. Muffled cries for help teased my conscience, but I had been hardened. I could not help them-it had to be every non-gender­specific person for itself. 


Soon I reached what I thought was my car. It was covered with dust and Dreaded D-6 Debris. I saw a patch of red. I saw a Notre Dame sticker-it had to be mine! 
I waded through the rubble-ridden waters and quickly uncovered the choking Toyota. Dust rose from above and below in a blinding furry; I wished for my Super-Reinforced Dust Protector Suit™-but mine was a noble cause. I had to press on. 
Finally I was reunited with my car, ankles and neck intact-ready to volunteer my services at the Center for the Homeless when what to my wondering eyes should appear, but my very own sister (Cathy) trembling in the far corner of the car. She, too had forgotten her safety suit and boots. 
The Center would have to wait while I coaxed her out of the car-she had used the car the previous night and had been too tired to attempt passage -together we made our way back home. 
As we navigated, I looked with pity on the cars that had once been shiny and in working order. I looked at the faces of the students who used to be healthy and unafraid to use their vehicles. And I couldn't help thinking just then, that perhaps the dreaded D-6 parking lot should be paved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE WORLD Communists accused of coup attempt 
•MOSCOW -Pro-reform military officers Wednesday accused eight Communist Party leaders of attempting a coup last month in Lithuania, and said President Mikhail Gorbachev must have known about the plot. The officers released a report that concluded Soviet troops were responsible for the deaths of 15 people during an attack on the television station in Lithuania's capital of Vilnius. Their report was published in the liberal weekly Moscow News. The report by the officers, who call themselves Shchit, or Shield, rejected the military's claim that troops were fired on by demonstrators. It also rejected a claim by Soviet Defense Minister Dmitri Yazov that the troops were only ordered "to maintain order," rather than help the shadowy National Salvation Committee seize power during the pre-dawn clash on Jan. 13. 
NATIONAL 
High schools to distribute condoms 
•NEW YORK -After months of debate and a last­minute compromise effort, the Board of Education voted Wednesday night to dole out condoms at high schools in 
OF INTEREST 
•Graduate 
Student Union Forum for officer elections will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 220 Hayes-Healy Center. Candidates will discuss their ideas and issues and will answer questions. GSU elections are Mar. 5. 

•Freshman 
engineers interested in majoring in chemical engineering are encouraged to attend an in­formal discussion about the major tonight at 7 p.m. in Theodore's. 

•Habitat 
for Humanity is holding a meeting tonight at 8 


p.m in Room 207 Architecture Building. Call Paula at 
Denver Detroit Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madnd Miami Beach 
Paris Philadelphia Por11and, Ore. Rome St. Louis San Francisco South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C. 

H  l  
61  41  
57  30  
46  37  
35  29  
32  17  
66  37  
56  21  
33  16  
81  61  
64  44  
35  19  
48  45  
60  56  
63  39  
73  59  
38  32  
62  39  
36  26  
50  43  
39  27  
65  33  
64  39  
54  27  
57  53  
29  22  
54  37  
44  27  

the nation's largest school system. Condoms initially will be available at 30 to 35 schools, then phased in at the rest of 120 schools that enroll 260,000 students as part of a stepped up effort to fight AIDS. Parents' permission will not be required and that was the major sticking point for the board, which approved the plan on a vote of 4-3. Several board members tried to negotiate an "opt-out" clause, allowing parents to write notes to exclude their children. Schools Chancellor Joseph Fernandez insisted that no "opt-in" be required. He said that to make teens get their parents' permission would scare them away from the condom giveaways. The plan is the most liberal such program in the nation because it does not involve sending students to health clinics to get the condoms, said Robin Lewis, spokeswoman for the Center for Population Options in Washington. 
CAMPUS 

Master's student Riddle-Brennen dies 
•NOTRE 
DAME-Sharon Riddle-Brennen, a student in the Master of Science in Administration program, died of a heart attack. She was 47 years old. Brennen is survived by her husband, William Brennen of 3529 Hanover Court, South Bend. No funeral service is planned locally, but a memorial service will be held in South Bend on March 9. 

•shakespeare's 
"Comedy of Errors" auditions will be held today from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. and Friday from 6 to 8 p.m., both at Theodore's. Call Scott at 234-1048 or Paul at 283-1355. 

•seniors 
sign up at the class office for the All-Night Basketball Tourney which will take place March 1 from 9 


p.m. to 9 a.m. 

•stand-up comedians needed for Student Union Board comedy night in April. Call Adam, 283-3374. 
News 
Graphics Christine Walsh 
Pat Midden Frank Rivera 
VIewpoint Accent Rich Riley Michael Whitman Business Sports 
Colleen Gannon Dave Dieteman 
Rich Riley 
Scoreboard 
Systems Mark McGrath 
Cesar Capella 
Brian Stalter Production John Rock 
Circulation Cheryl Moser 
Chris Hanely Michelle Wood 
Lu Medeiros 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
237-0788. 

MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 27, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
211.41 Million 200.74 ~ 2.52 

S&P COMPOSITE A 

367.74 1M" 4.93 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

2,889.11 {t 24.51 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD 1} $2.20 to$ 361.70oz. SILVER f' 0.6¢ to$ 3.57/oz. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1854: Some 50 opponents to slavery met at a schoolhouse in Ripon, Wis., to call for a new political group. The organization would later become known as the Republican Party. 

• 
In 1917: The Associated Press reported the United States had intercepted a German communication. The "Zimmerman note" proposed a German alliance with Mexico and Japan should the U.S. enter World War I. 

• 
In 1975: More than 40 people were killed in London's Underground when a subway train sped past its final stop and smashed into the end of a tunnel. 

• 
In 1983: The television series "MASH" came to an end after 11 seasons on CBS with the broadcast of a special 2 1/2-hour finale. 


rights are reserved. 

Geoffrey Courtney of the Grace 2 team rebuts St. Edward's Hall's Chris Kozoll in Wednesday's semifinal round of Iceberg debates. 
Lyons debaters outwit Morrissey 

By CHRIS WILKINSON News Writer 
The Lyons Hall Iceberg de­bate team defeated neighboring Morrissey hall last night with a two-one judges' decision. 
Lyons team members, Karen Hohberger and Morrissey resi­dent John O'Brien, held the negative position on last night's resolution: that the Honor Code at the University of Notre Dame should be abolished. 
Representing Morrissey and the affirmative position were Jason Morrissey and Lyons resident Victoria Schneider. 
The negative team argued the following points: 
•The 
Honor Code at Notre Dame conflicts with the idea that Notre Dame students should be mature enough to be beyond cheating. 

•The 
policy undermines the sense of family and honor at Notre Dame. 

•The 
policy is ineffectual be­cause non-cheating students concentrate on their own work, not on policing the activities of other students. Therefore, cheating is facilitated. Also, students should not be in a po­sition to decide whether a fel­low student is actually in viola­tion of the honor code. 


•Cheating may be ingrained in society. The best way to curtail cheating is with proctors of tests and professors and teaching assistants being aware of possible plagiarism. 
The affirmative argued the following: 
•The 
Honor Code "advocates responsibility" and trust within the community. 

•The 
university is based on Christian virtue and and the idea of service to others. They said the Honor Code upheld the sense of family and service by asking students to confront fellow Notre Dame family members when they violate the trust of the community. 

•To 
abolish the Honor Code would kill the sense of trust and responsibility on the cam­pus. 

• 
The Honor Code develops "ethical responsibility which serve as grounds for personal decisions." These ethical ideals will be carried by Notre Dame students throughout life. 


Much of the debate centered on the question of whether the Honor Code was practical. It was questioned if students would actually turn in another student, possibly a friend, for cheating. 
Also heavily debated was the idea that "whistle-blowers are not respected in our society," as stated by Schneider, quoting Father Theodore Hesburgh. The negative position also quoted Hesburgh, "If cheating is the exception rather than the rule, keep the code." 
The three judges were Joseph Guiltinan. associate dean of the College of Business Administra­tion. Alexander Hahn, profes­sor of mathematics, and Kitty Arnold, director of Career and Placement Services. 
Guiltinan voted for the nega­tive, stressing their excellent rebuttals and exploitation of weak spots in the affirmative's arguments. He also said the negative team better engaged the audience. 
Hahn voted for the affirma­tive, citing the logical flow of their argument and greater fo­cus, as reasons for his vote. He also said the negative at­tributed statements to the af­firmative that the affirmative never made. 
Arnold voted for the negative, noting their preparation and debating skill. She said the de­bate was close, but the negative was better organized. 
"Best speaker" honors were awarded to the affirmative's Morrissey. 

~-.--------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~ -------------------------------­
The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, February 28, 1991 
Catholic women disenfranchised !Princeton student with 
By BRADLEY GALKO sume a role it is very difficult to "I see no psychological prob­Assistant News Editor get out of that role," she said. lems (with ordaining women) .. 
fake credentials expelled 
She added, "we learn to find . I see no theological ... objec­The Catholic Church's refusal reasons for behaving as we do." tions. What is the objection?" 
PRINCETON, N.J. (AP) -A former coach. The coach called to ordain women is just one Meara also raised the point he asked. 
31-year-old man was expelled the Peninsula Times Tribune symptom of the Church's sec­that "until you've earned Tageson outlined some of the 
from Princeton University after and a reporter called ond-class treatment of women, enough ... credibility, it's tough traditional reasons that the 
school officials discovered he Princeton. according to Professor Naomi to make changes... I don't Church is against the ordina­
was a fugitive who apparently "I knew (then) he was run­Meara. think anything we are doing tion of women. "Jesus was The 
fabricated his academic ning under a different name Meara was one of the pan­will help to ordain women." Priest and, of course, He was 
credentials, the university said and I'd assumed he'd done the elists at a discussion, "When Meara feels that any successful male," he said, "and He or­
Wednesday. same thing again," Pacheco Women are Priests, Will the push to ordain women will dained only men." 
James Hogue, who posed as said. "And I guess it turned out Church be a Pyramid," Wednes­come from outside the ordina­He added that today, "people 
20-year-old Alexi Indris-San­that he had." day. tion argument, such as a who are in power like to retain 
tana during the 1 1/2-year Hogue, originally from "The problem as I see it," shortage of priests. power," referring to the exclu­
ruse, was arrested in class Kansas City, Kan., posed as Jay said Meara, "is not the ordina­Meara also said that there is sivity of the Catholic priest­
Tuesday after police learned he Mitchell Huntsman during his tion of women. The problem is another reason, which she hood. 
was wanted in Utah for an brief enrollment at Palo Alto the treatment of women in the termed "the great 'I gotcha,'" Tageson spoke against one 
alleged parole violation. High School, the Times Tribune Church." that prevents her from pursu­audience member's suggestion 
Hogue, a sophomore, began said. Meara said that there are two ing a greater role in the Church that women should perhaps 
attending classes in the fall of He claimed to be a 16-year­classes of citizens in the more fervently. She said, "not strive initially for lower posi­
1989 and ran on the univer­old orphan of parents killed in Church, those that are only do I have this role as a tions in the Church. "If you're 
sity's track and cross-country Bolivia, the newspaper said. "distinctive by privilege" and second-class citizen, I have a going to go for it, ,go for it at all 
teams. His admission and en­Hogue said he was raised and those that are "distinctive by moral obligation" to maintain levels," urged Tageson, "rather 
rollment were revoked tutored at a commune in disenfranchisement." She said this role. than start (with) subordinate 
Tuesday, and the university Nevada and went to Palo Alto women are largely grouped in She said that if she goes women." 
was investigating whether to for a formal education. the latter by the Church. against the traditional "moral" "Dialogue with those who are 
file criminal charges, said On his Princeton application, Meara elaborated on her arguments against women as willing to dialogue . . . is the 
spokesman Justin Harmon. Hogue claimed to have been point by contrasting her role in priests, then "I am being inap­answer," to the problem of or­
self-educated and employed on the Church to her professional propriate to my gender, which dination of women, he said. Di­
"He's not who he represented a ranch in Utah. The university role where she is head of the is important to me, (and) I am alogue should be on a constant 
himself as when he applied said interviews and Hogue's psychology department at being inappropriate as a basis. 
here," Harmon said. "On the youthful appearance supported Notre Dame. Catholic, which is important to Meara added that priests in 
basis of that information, we've his claims. Unlike her work me." favor of the ordination of 
decided he's no longer a stu­environment, where there is William Tageson, associate women "could talk about that 
dent here." "The documentation in his the possibility for upward professor of psychology and a in their homilies, bring it up at 
application appeared to be con­mobility, Meara said, "In my life self-proclaimed "married priest senates, and treat 
Hogue was in custody sistent with the background he as a Roman Catholic, I am priest," took a more hardline women as if they had a brain in 
Wednesday; police said he offered," said Dean of Admis­powerless. I cannot advance . . stance against the Church. "I their head sometimes." 
could not be interviewed. sions Fred Hargadon, who . and I cannot change this love the Church. I'm a Catholic. "I am not as optimistic that 
joined Princeton after Hogue system so that others can But I hate the structure," he this will happen in my lifetime," 
Harmon said the scheme be­was admitted. advance. I am disen­exclaimed. Tageson said. 
gan to unravel when Hogue franchised." He described the Catholic Meara disagreed. 
met a Yale student at a Feb. 16 Hogue was admitted to One of the reasons for Church as being patriarchial "I believe it will occur in my 
track meet in New Haven, Princeton based on test scores women's lack of mobility in the and monarchial in its structure. lifetime. I think we will wake 
Conn. and a "unique and impressive Church, said Meara, is women's He also cited its disenfran­up one morning, and it will be 
life story," Hargadon said. acceptance of their limited role chisement of women and its like the Berlin Wall," she 
Renee Pacheco, a Yale senior, in the Church. She cited a Stan­disenfranchisement of laity. added. "The signs of progress 
attended Palo Alto High School University officials would not ford University psychology ex­"Am I arguing against the are there." 
in California in 1985, when comment on Hogue's academic periment where students were ordination of women? No," said 
Hogue masqueraded as a stu­record, except to say that it placed into the roles of prison­Tageson, "what I am arguing The discussion was spon­
dent. Pacheco, who was on the was "satisfactory." They were ers and guards to illustrate. against is the particular sored by The Committee on 
high school's cross-country also reviewing financial aid he "The moral (of the experi­structure that the women might Notre Dame's Position On the 
team with Hogue, called her received. ment) ... is (that) when we as-be ordained into." Ordination of Women. 
e~t~tAfutd 
1991 


ATTENTION STUDENTS--LAST WEEK OF SIGNUPS 
Off Campus Sign-ups: 

February 25 March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch. 
February 25 March 1 at LaFortune information desk. 
f

On Campus Sign-ups: =· ..
.. 

Now-March 1. Look for posters in respective dorms. 
' 

"Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Casimir-Ford Street neighborhood 
This project needs your support! 
QUESTIONS??? Please call: 
--~-~~--~ ~~ ~-~-~~ 

Thu 
28, 1991 

Procedures for ticket distribution announced 
Special to The Observer 
Instructions for obtaining guest commencement tickets are being distributed to Jan­uary and potential May 1991 University of Notre Dame graduates by the Office of the Dean of Administration and Registrar. 
A procedure inauguratfJd sev­eral years ago will again be followed this year to ensure that the minimum needs of all graduates in the May com­mencement ceremony will be met. 
In early March all prospective graduating students, as well as January graduates, will be mailed a "Request for Guest Tickets" form and will be asked to specify the number of guest tickets required (to a maximum of four tickets.) 

Students who request only one or two tickets will be guar­anteed the best seats in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, while those who request only three tickets will be guar­anteed three tickets together. 
Those who request four tick­ets will be guaranteed three tickets. The fourth ticket will be distributed if there are enough for all those requesting a fourth ticket. If not, a lottery will be held. 
There is no guarantee for students requesting four tickets that these seats will all be to­gether. 
All guest tickets will be dis­tributed to the students re­questing them in Room 422 Administration Building begin­ning May 14. 

Computing classes offered 
Special to The Observer 
The Office of University Computing announced the availability of the following evening computer classes for the student training pro­gram: 
•Beginning Microsoft Word 

4.0 will be offered in Hoom 24S I111sburgh Library on March 19 and April 3. 
•Introduction to Hyper­Card 2.0 will be offered in Hoom 248 Jlflsburgh Library on March 26. 
•Beginning WordPerfect 

5.1 will be offered in Room 247 Hesburgh Library on March 20 and April 4. 
•Writing a paper with Mi­crosoft Word 4.0 will be of­fered March 21 and April 9, in Hoom 248 Hesburgh Li­brary. Basic knowledge of Microsoft Word 4.0 is a pre­requisite. 
•Graphics with SuperPaint 
2.0 will be offered on April 10 in Hoom 248 Hesburgh Library. 
•Writing a paper with WordPerfect 5.1 will be of­fered March 27 and April 11 in Room 24 7 Hesburgh Li­brary. Basic knowledge of WordPerfect 5.1 is a pre­requisite. 
All dasses will meet from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Students can register on a first-come, first-serve basis at the Information Resource Center (IRC) in Room 111, Computing Center and Mathematics Building or by calling 239-8111. 
Special to The Observer 
Eight University of Notre Dame graduate students have received cash awards from the Graduate School to recognize outstanding fellowship applica­tions they have submitted dur­ing the past year, according to Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and re­search. · 
Receiving awards were: 
• 
David Dixon, a doctoral student in government and in­ternational studies, who ap­plied for a Fulbright Fellowship to examine the strategies of the Catholic and Pentecostal churches in reaching out to the urban poor in Chile. 

• 
Marie Conn, a doctoral student in theology, who ap­plied for an AAUW American Fellowship to transcribe and edit two lOth-century English liturgical manuscripts. 


• Eric Watkins, a philosophy doctoral student, who applied to the Social Science Research Council for support to visit Germany to analyze Kant's Third Analogy. 
• 
Daniel Harlow, a doctoral student in theology, who ap­plied for a Fulbright to conduct the first major English-lan­guage study of the Greek Apoc­alypse of Baruch, a text of Jew­ish apocalyptic literature. 

• 
Anthony Gangloff, a chem­istry student, who applied for a Fulbright to support his re­search in Sweden to develop a new method to synthesize fragments of the strep­togramin-A family of antibi­otics, which are among the most heavily used antibiotics in the world. 

• 
Lissa Van Bebber, a doctoral student in sociology, who applied to the Woodrow Wilson Foundation for a Spencer Fel­lowship to study teachers' knowledge and application of African-American culture in bi-


cultural classrooms 

• 
Melanie Micozzi, who re­ceived the M.F.A. degree in 1990 and applied for a Ful­bright Fellowship and Rome Prize to study painting and graphic arts in Italy. 

• 
Carol Stuart, a government student who applied for a Peace Scholar Award from the 


U.S. Institute of Peace to analyze the factors that lead to the escalation (or de-escalation) of ethnic conflict in the Oaxaca region of Mexico. 
Students who submit applica­tions for extramural research grants or fellowships between Dec. 1, 1990, and July 31, 1991, may apply for the Graduate School's 1991 Fellowship Applicant Awards by sending a completed copy of their application to Peter Diffley, assistant dean, 312 Main Building, by Aug. 1. Up to eight awards will be announced by Sept. 1,1991. 
r 
The Center for Civil 8 Human Rights and The Notre Dame Law Review 
present 






A Symposium on 
' 
The Rights of Ethnic Minorities 
Friday, March 1 from 9 -5:00 p.m. Saturday, March 2 from 9:30 -4:00 p.m. 
Law School Court Room, Room220 

-~------~ 


page 6 

Bulgaria 
continued from page 1 
creasing student representation in the university senate, was met successfully. Students now comprise 34 percent of that or­ganization. 
Gaining representation is one thing, but benefitting, from it is another, according to Stoyan Nikolov, a 26-year old history studenL He explained that the majority of the senate at Sofia University, 66 percent, is still comprised of faculty and ad­ministration. 
While students campaigning for senate positions do so on platforms that address issues like students' rights, inflexible curriculums, housing problems and a shortage of funds for university libraries, there is a limit to what the elected stu­dents can accomplish, he said. 
"The meetings of the univer-· sity senate are something like politics... (full oO the art of compromise, because there are a lot of problems and I think most of the students realize that they cannot be solved," Nikolov said. 

"This freedom of yours (in America) is in the Constitution, where if some problems exist, it's really easy to solve them even in court," Dimitrov said. "We have no legal right (to academic freedom) in Bulgaria, no laws" that provide students and others with solid ground to defend their words and actions. 
The Bulgarian system involves, according to Nikolov, "a strict curriculum." Students are not allowed to choose their own professors, nor are they allowed many, if any, electives outside their field of study, he said. 
Although they are no longer required to study Marxist­Leninist philosophy, Dimitrov said Bulgarian students are far from content with their cur­riculum. "The curriculum should be made more free." 
For a single decision that in­volved dropping and adding a course, Dimitrov had to wait two months for an administra­tive decision. In the mean time, he had no choice but to attend both classes. 
is accepting applications for the following positions on our Saint Mary's staff: 
Assistant Editor News Editor Accent Editor Sports Editor Photo Editor Office Manager Advertising Representative 
Applicants should submit a one page personal statement to Emily Willett by 5 pm, Thursday, February 28, 1991 at the Haggar College Center Desk. For more information call Emily Willett at 284-5086. 
Name School Address  
City State !lome Address  Zip  
City State  Zip  

Northwestern University Summer Session '91 Think or swim. 
I'm thinking. Send me a free copy of the Summer Session '91 catalog with financial aid and registration information (available in April). 
Please send the catalog to 0 my home. 0 myschool. Northwestern University Summer Session '91 2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650 
---------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Sofia University are housed in a specific area, called "Student Town," which "tends to be a pretty nasty place to live," ac­cording to Dimitrov. Low rent keeps the students in line, he 
"They (the administration) keep you in submission. If you don't behave as you're supposed, they don't give you what you want (housing)." Bulgarian universities are 
ridlli.iW five-year institutions, paid for 

Vote 
continued from page 1 
Stacy Jones ticket, which captured 38 percent, or 432 of the 1,132 votes. 
Reinke, will emphasize service and representation for next year's sophomore class. "That's what the peo­ple wanted. They were ob­jectives that weren't just campaign promises... we think we can accomplish." 
"We were really proud to make it to the run-off," said Johnson, "We think they'll do a great job next year." 
SECURITY BEAT 

m. A Morrissey Hall reside the theft ol his CB lrom his 
in the 0-2 lot sometime Feb. 17 and Wednesday, Feb. 21. 
12:35 
a.m. A resident ol Dillon Hall notilied by Security that his car the D-2 lot had been vandaliz driver's side window was broken radar detector was stolen. The in i occurred between 8:30 p.m. Friday and 

12:35 
a.m. Saturday. 



The examination system is another area needing reform, according to Dimitrov. Most courses are decided by a final oral examination. The outcome of these exams, he says, "depends too much on the pro­fessor's inclination." 
Bulgarian students generally enter the university at age 18 or 19, but only after a rigorous application process. They must take entrance exams, and there are approximately six to ten candidates for each position, Nikolov said. 
Housing for the students in Bulgaria presents additional problems. Most of the approx­imately 12,000 students at through national taxes. While students paying $16,000 a year for their educations might envy the Bulgarian system, Nelli Nikova sees the bargain as the root of the problem. "This might sound harsh... but motivation (to make changes) would be greater if you paid for your education," said the 25­year-old philosophy major. 
Nikova explained that cur­rently in Bulgaria, the highest number of unemployed are the college educated, because often the degrees (especially humanities) are "not economi­cally useful enough for the state. "As much as Nikova wants to see the system 

Thursday, February 28, 1991 
change, but their are barriers. "Students are tired, a little apathetic, and becoming more individualistic." she said. "They're fed up with beliefs, tired of believing in something. They have the ambition, but don't really do it (change)," she said. 
Before their 16-day tour is complete, they will have visited Georgetown University, the University of Chicago and Indi­ana University. They will also meet with Congressional staff members, national education associations and First Amend­ment advocacy groups. 
At Notre Dame Nikova saw a "natural atmosphere... For the first time, I saw a school that sees all the problems in overview," referring to the combination of theology, phi­losophy and history in the Peace Studies curriculum. 
The delegation is sponsored by the International Founda­tion, a group founded to ad­dress the far-reaching impact of global problems, assisted by members of the Institute for International Peace Studies and housed by local host families. 
The bbserver page 7 


Educational options debated in Hesburgh Program colloquium 

By KATE MANUEL News Writer 

While choice may have importance in educational reform, it also contains some problematic issues that need further consideration, according to the consensus of participants in the Hesburgh Program in Public Service's annual colloquium. 
The Second Annual Public Policy Colloquium began Wednesday with a panel discus­sion, "Education Reform: Prob­lems of School Choice and Funding Inequalities," featur­ing four speakers recognized as leaders in the fields of school choice and education reform. 
There is choice within the present education system, but this choice is hard to exercise and unavailable to many, said Thomas Vitullo-Martin, the Di­rector of Metroconomy Inc. and a consultant on education re­search and policy matters to the U.S. Department of Educa­tion, the National Institute of Education and the Council for American Private Education. 
"I believe there is a substan­tial amount of choice in our ed­ucational system now. There is choice within the educational system, but it Is very difficult to exercise because it rests in money," Vitullo-Martin said. 
At present a family can exer­cise choice by moving to a new home in another school system or by paying money to attend schools in another school dis­trict. he said. 
This choice does not operate evenly, however, because people lacking the money cannot move and because governments subsidize choices made by the wealthy with "kickbacks" such as allowances in itemized deductions, he said. 
Vitullo-Martin said, "Because 


$$$ MONEY $$$ 
We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 

• Deferred Payments: You'll have all summer 
to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 
• Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
~ NOTREDAME ~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239·6611 

..______________Se...:..p_a..ra..te;._fr;.;om th~ Universit 

the state is contributing over half of the local school budgets, there's no real reason for lock­ing people into a local system. I also think we should include private schools in the choices." 
Vitullo-Martin said that the greatest danger of choice lies in people making poor choices, rather than in their choosing segregated schools. 
"The fear is that people, if given a choice, will chose poorly for their child," he said, "segregation by class is a dan­gerous, not desirable segrega­tion, but it is not one chosen by the majority of people." 
Choice is only one aspect of a larger restructuring of schools, said Donald Ernst, executive assistant for elementary and secondary education to Indiana Governor Evan Bayh. 
School reform movements, particularly those following the 1957 Sputnik launch and the 1983 response to Japan's eco­nomic advances, have generally been characterized by both a push for tightening current standards and by a call for a broader restructuring of schools, Ernst said. 
Ernst suggested an alterna­tive to privatization and educa­tional choice that included eliminating barriers to knowl­edge access, redesigning the in­dividual schools and restructur­ing the relationship between schools and the universities training teachers. 
He said that educational re­sponsibility should not lie only with teachers, but should be extended to state governing bodies, school districts, indi­vidual schools, teachers, par­ents and students. 
"I am not ready to hand edu­cation over to the corporate world because of the tie be­tween public education and democratic values," he said. 
The notion of choice in edu­cation is not new, as the cre­ation of the choice-oriented St. Paul Open School over twenty years ago shows, said Mary Boyd, the current principal of the St. Paul Open School and the former director of the St. Paul Street Academy, an alter­native program for "high risk" secondary students. 
"Choice is not new, except in the specific context of school reform. I don't believe choice alone is going to reform schools. I say 'choice-yes; but when, how, for whom?'" she said. 
Her concerns about choice in­clude: 
•How 
do parents know the best place to send a child? 

•Who 
will educate parents on making choices? 

•How 
will transportation be removed as a barrier? 


•Who is school reform for? 

People need to be cautious about the attractiveness of school choice, said Louis Fraga, an associate professor of Government and International Studies at Notre Dame who has published extensively on minority access to education. 
Choice implies the possession of complete information by those making choices, and such information could not be com­plete unless it were provided as part of the choice process, said Fraga. 
Choice also implies that indi­viduals independently acting to maximize self-interest will lead to the larger social good, and it assumes that teachers and edu­cators will do a good job after choices are made, he said. 
"Another assumption, conse­quence, is that the system of choice takes away from the public arena the discussion of what we want schools to do," he said. 
The panel discussion between Vitullo-Martin, Ernst, Boyd and Fraga was the initial one in the second annual public policy colloquium. Other sessions will follow in the remainder of the semester. 

The Observer 

page 8 Thursday, February 28, 1991 

u.s. to secure lasting Gulf stability 
Four-point diplomatic plan offered 
WASHINGTON (AP) -With military victory nearly at hand, the Bush administration on Wednesday launched a four­point diplomatic campaign to secure the postwar Persian Gulf from another Saddam Hussein and to rebuild Kuwait's econ­omy. 
Contingency plans drawn up within the government included even the prospect of providing aid to Iraq-if Saddam is forced from power. 
But final decisions by Presi­dent Bush rested on consulta­tions with the allies in the 32­nation war coalition, beginning with British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd's call at the White House on Wednesday, and on measuring how much cooperation will come from the Soviet Union. 
"Securing the peace in this A column of Iraqi prisoners of war captured by Task Force Ripper of the region. in the aftermath of this U.S. 1st Marine Division marches to a processing area in Kuwait follow­conflict, is not going to be any ing their capture Sunday on the first day of the ground war. In the 1 00 easy job," Secretary of State 
"You know what our position reparations to the victims of the James Baker said. "It is going is," Baker told reporters. "And Kuwaiti occupation. •Dealing with the Arab-Israeli But the three other goals are to be very difficult." 
that is, as long as that particu­On Capitol Hill, meanwhile, dispute. bound to require an aggressiveBaker called in Prince Ban­lar government continues in legislators considered changing U.S. role. The biggest question dar, the Saudi ambassador, and power we want to make cer­the tax code to provide tax re­•Economic reconstruction is whether U.S. diplomacy will met with Hurd. French Foreign tain, at least with respect to lief and other benefits to mem­and recovery of Iraq and be supplemented by keepingMinister Roland Dumas is due arms, that there's some sort of bers of the U.S. armed forces. Kuwait, along with other na­U.S. ground forces in the re­
here for talks Thursday and 
constraints upon rearmament The four principal U.S. policy tions that suffered war losses. gion.
German Foreign Minister Hans­and on the shipment of arms objectives, already submitted toDietrich Genscher on Friday. 
into that country-in particu­Congress by Baker, are: Baker told Congress it might be There is broad consensusTaking form already is a de­lar, weapons of mass destruc­possible for a coalition of within the alliance, meanwhile, cision to urge the U.N. Security tion." •New security arrangements countries in the region to take that security arrangements
Council to maintain an em­
Hurd went even further. He in the region. on the economic job, with the must be undertaken to shield
bargo on arms shipments to 
spoke at the White House of United States and other out­Saudi Arabia and smaller gulfIraq if Saddam Hussein is not keeping the sanctions in place •Controlling the influx and siders providing technical ad­states, such as Kuwait, fromdriven from power. 
as a way of forcing Iraq to pay . spread of arms. vice. Saddam-like aggression. 

------------------------are not the enemy. We do not 
seek your destruction. We have
Peace 
treated your POWs with kind­ness.
continued from page 1 
"We must now begin to look beyond victory in war. We must Aug. 2. 
meet the challenge of securing Seven months ago, he said, peace.
the nation drew a line in the sand and said Iraq's aggression 
"We've already done a good
would not stand. 
deal of thinking and planning for the post-war period ... there "America and the world have can be and will be no solelykept their word," he said. 
American answer to all these challenges. But we can assist Bush said he'd asked Secretary 
and support the countries of 
of State James Baker to work the region." 
with the United Nations Security Council on "the neces­
Saddam Hussein's shattered 
sary arrangements for this war army was fleeing Kuwait, and to be ended" formally. He said Pentagon officials said some ofBaker would go to the Middle 
his best forces were being
East next week to begin consul­ground down in a final, fierce tations. 
tank battle that raged in south­ern Iraq. 

Iraq will meet UN conditions 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Iraq late Wednesday promised the United Nations it would honor all the Security Council resolutions on the Gulf War, as demanded by the United States and its allies, diplomats said. 
They said the latest letter addressed to the Security 
Council  and  Secretary­ 
General  Javier  Perez  de  
Cuellar  made  clear  that  

Baghdad will honor all the resolutions. 
Yemen's Ambassador Ab­dalla Saleh Ashtal, who saw the original letter in Arabic, said "It had in it the accep­tance of Iraq of resolutions of the Security Council pertaining to the Gulf Crisis." 
"It is what the Security 
Council wants, of course, on the condition that there be a cease­fire. But now it's been overtaken by events," al-Ashtal said. 
Cuban Ambassador Ricardo Alarcon also confirmed the account. 
CNN said the letter was signed by Iraqi Foreign Minis­ter Tariq Aziz and quoted it as saying: "The government of Iraq agrees to fully comply with UN resolution 660 and to all the other Security Council resolutions." 
There was no official con­firmation from Baghdad that Iraq had accepted the resolu­tions. 
Al-Ashtal said the Security Council would meet Thursday morning to discuss the Gulf War. 
The council earlier had re­jected a conditional peace of­fer from Iraq and told Bagh­dad it must agree to all 12 
U.N. resolutions prior to any cease-fire. 
Iraq's ambassador had said his government accepted council resolutions guaranteeing Kuwait's sovereignty and would accept liability for war damages­but only if a cease-fire were declared and an economic embargo lifted. 
President Bush said the al­lies would cease fire if Iraq agreed to their demands, in­cluding compliance with the 12 resolutions. 
His remarks were intended to begin a pm:iod of healing. 
"At every opportunity, I have said to the people of Iraq that our quarrel was not with them but instead with their leader­ship," Bush said. "This remains the case. You the people of Iraq 
Pre-Professional 
Society will be 
having ameeting 
Thurs, Feb. 28, at 7 
pm in 184 
Nieuwland Science 
Hall. Eledions of 

new officers wnl be 
held and the new 


wnl be 

The Christian Conscience: 
Ethical Perspectives on War and Peace 
PEACEMAKING: NON-VIOLENCE AND THE CATHOLIC TRADITION 


Sr. Elena Malits, C.S.C., Professor of Religious Studies, Saint Mary's College 
Tonight-February 28 7:30p.m. LaFortune Student Center Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 



OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Thursday, February 28, 1991 page 9 
Schwarzkopf assesses Allied military success 

HIYADH (API -In his assessment of the campaign, the 56-year-old general spoke for the first time of enemy dead-a topic he has refused to discuss, on grounds that his Vietnam experience taught the fallacy of using "body counts" to measure progress on the battlefield. 
The question was what, if thnre were only 50,000 prison­nrs, had bneome of the rest of the 29 Iraqi divisions-some 200,000 soldiers in all-who had been deployed to the 
Kuwaitis thank Allied servicemen 
KUWAIT CITY (API -The 
U.S. Marine whose forces routnd Iraq's army in Kuwait rode triumphantly past thou­sands of jubilant residents Wndnesday as Kuwaiti nags nuttered over the capital for Uw first time in seven months. 
Kuwaitis cheered, fired rine bursts into the air and shouted "Thank you, USA!" as Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer, standing atop an armored car festooned with tlw Ameriean and Kuwaiti nags, rode through the war­ravaged city. 
His six-vehicle convoy was soon nntanglnd in carnival-like cnl1~ brations that swirled through the capital's scarred strents, amid cratered and burned-out buildings standing in a pall of black smoke from burning oil lin~s. 
Carloads of Kuwaitis­teenagers, bnarded elders, tod­dlers held up by their moth­~~rs-jammed the highways. Others lined roads or gathered on roofs. They honked horns and snapped photographs of any Americans they could find. 
"Hey, thanks a lot, guys!" shouted a young man as he maneuvered his speeding car alongside Boomer's convoy. "Where's Rambo?" 
"At last you did it! God bless Bush!" yelled another man as a woman dressed in the black robes of the Muslim world blew kisses at the Americans. 

SENIOR FORMAl 
1991 " Sign up for 
rooms, tables, flowers, tuxedos cand activities: March5,6 
from 6-9 at Theodore's and March 7 Ill 

<> from 6-9 in the LeMans lobby 
• 0 



"Wf MAKE YONT~" 
THE EVf · 
mount, "We'd never have put 60 days worth of supplies in there." 
Schwarzkopf said his strategy relied on two feints that obvi­ously worked in taking the Iraqis by surprise. 
They were needed, he said, because Saddam's fighting forces outnumbered the allies by about two to one, and the coalition should ideally have had a five-to-one advantage to seize heavily defended Iraqi po-
Text of Bush speech 
Coalition political and military terms for a formal cease-fire include the following requirements: 
•Iraq 
must release immediately all coalition prisoners of war, third country nationals and the remains of all who have fallen. 

•Iraq 
must release all Kuwaiti detainees. 

•Iraq 
also must inform Kuwaiti authorities of the location and nature of all land and sea mines. 

•Iraq 
must comply fully with all relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions. This includes a rescinding of Iraq's August decision to annex Kuwait and acceptance in principle of Iraq's responsibility to pay compensation for the loss, damage and injury its aggression has caused. 


The coalition calls upon the Iraqi government to designate military commanders to meet within 48 hours with their coalition counterparts at a place in the theater of operations to be specified to arrange for military aspects of the cease-fire. 
Further, I have asked Secretary of State Baker to request that the United Nations Security Council meet to formulate the necessary arrangements for this war to be ended. 
This suspension of offensive combat operations is contingent upon Iraq's not firing upon any coalition forces and not launching Scud missiles against any other country. 
If Iraq violates these terms, coalition forces will be free to resume military operations. 
At every opportunity I have said to the people of Iraq that our quarrel was not with them, but instead with their leadership, and above all with Saddam Hussein. This remains the case. 
You, the people of Iraq, are not our enemy. We do not seek your destruction. We have treated your POWs with kindness. 
Coalition forces fought this war only as a last resort and look forward to the day when Iraq is led by people prepared to live in peace with their neighbors. 
We must now begin to look beyond victory in war. We must meet the challenge of securing the peace. In the future, as before, we will consult with our coalition partners. We have already done a good deal of thinking and planning for the postwar period and Secretary Baker has already begun to consult with our coalition partners on the region's challenges. 
There can be, and will be, no solely American answer to all these challenges. But we can assist and support the countries of the region and be a catalyst for peace. 
In this spirit, Secretary Baker will go to the region next week to begin a new round of consultations. 
This war is now behind us. Ahead of us is the difficult task of securing a potentially historic peace. 
Tol\lght, though, let us be proud of what we have accomplished. Let us give thanks to those who have risked their Jives. Let us never forget those who gave their lives. May God bless our valiant military forces and their families and let us all remember them in our prayers. 
SEN lOR FORMAL TUXEDO RENTALS FROM LOUIE'S TUX SHOP 
PRICES: 

Black Classic• ................. $39.95+ TAX Designer Tuxedos• ............. $52.50+ TAX Shoes ........................ $ 8.50+ TAX 
*Includes coat, trousers, shirt, tie, cummerbund, jewelry and suspenders. 
PAYMENT: 

Partial or. full payment may be made. (A $15.00 minimum deposit is required at the time of fitting). We accept cash, VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and personal checks. 
WHEN: 

March 5th, 6th and 7th, 1991. (6:00P.M.~ 9:00P.M.) 
WHERE: 

• 
LaFortune Center, Theodore's on Tuesday, March 5th and Wednesday, March 6th. 

• 
LeMans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's on Thursday, March 7th. 


sitions. 

One ruse was the phantom amphibious assault-33 navy ships, loaded with 17,000 Marines, cruising in the Persian Gulf and periodically conduct­ing beach assault exercises. 
The idea was that the Iraqis, seeing this activity, would have to deploy forces along the coast. They did, also laying minefields on the beaches and mining the waters of the Gulf itself. 
Kuwait desert and were now considered "destroyed or com­bat ineffective." 
"There were were very, very large numbers of dead," Schwarzkopf said, adding that 
U.S. troops had found many in the bunkers and trenchlines where Iraqi conscripts had been hammered by allied air strikes. 
Schwarzkopf also said there had been "very heavy deser­tions," totaling up to 30 percent of the troops in some units, who apparently decided
...

."""" 
Saddam's fight was hopeless. 

Using the pointer, Schwarzkopf showed how his two Army corps, two Marine divisions and associated units had been brought to the Saudi desert, moved into positions, trained and supplied with enough armaments and other supplies to last for 60 days. 
He called the massive effort a "monumental" achievement, conceding that if he'd known little resistance Iraqis would 
AP Photo 

"Kuwait Is Free" sweat shirts 
Edith Wise, 23, prepares some of the 1 ,000 sweat shirts embla­zoned with "Kuwait Is Free," Tuesday in central London. The shirts were said to be ordered by a member of the Kuwait royal family. 

~) 



--~ -~ 
The Lord's promise is that He is in our midst when we gather in prayer. Strengthened hy this conviction, we beseech the Risen Christ to fill the world with His peace. We call upon Mary, the first disciple and the Queen of Peace, to intercede for us and for the peoples of our time... (The Challenge of Peace, 11 292) 












A CALL TO PRAYER 
FOR PEACE 

This Friday, and every Friday while the war lasts, we invite you to join in a special Mass for Peace which will be celebrated at Sacred Heart Church at 5:15 p.m. 
FRIDAY, MARCH 1,1991-5:15 P.M. Rev. Joseph D. Ross, C.S.C., Presider & Homilist 
The tragedy of war has brought suffering and loss to many homes and families in countries throughout the world. 
Let us join our voices to the many pleas of men and women of good will who pray for peace. 
Let us also remember in a special way the victims of war in Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and those 
from our own country. 
At Notre Dame, we are particularly aware of the anxiety felt by parents, family members and friends from our faculty, staff and recent graduates who fear for the safety of these loved ones who are involved in this war: 
Jed Aldridge Bob Heinke Bob McCann Adam Pintarelli Greg Stricklin
~.;nartie GruzBilly Allen Dennis Hejlik Bob McCarthy Kevin Poling Anthony Sulliwn
James Cummings
Mark Alveear Bob Henks Kelly McGinley Tom Porter Joe Sullivan
Tom Cummings
Andrew Ankrom Roger Hershmeyer Scott Mcintyre Mark Rakow Jerome Swanson
Jidc Ctxlringtmn
Dr. James Asher Edward Hiar Matt McKenna TOOl Pamos Joseph A. Swider
Jamie Deets
Theresa Backman Patrick Hirl Patrick McNally Albert Rawding Bill Szalay
Sean Delehanty
Rick Badger MK:o Holguin Marty McNicholas Peter Read Mark Szkudlarek
Chris Demansky 
Pat Timon

Gene Bagot .imDimma Dennis Hollingshed Brian Manley Kathleen Regan
Kyle Bain Kipper Hull Steve Manning Sean Reilly Steve Tomaso
Peter Deperro
Cincio Balderas Allen Hunt Scott Marasco Todd Reilly Kelly Townsend
Sean Dillon
Jim Ballard Jon Jadgchew Eric Maudsley Johnathan Reinebold Alejandro Trujillo
Barney Dodd
DemsBa1ron Roger Mauer Brian Rixon Andrew Tutewiler
James JenistaRid< Dombrowski

Peter Barlock Russ Jenkins Daniel Megan Bem,tRomero George Uzarralde
Jac;on DomoleczneyMay Barlow David Merrick Steven Roumell Andrew Vogt
Rev. Wm. Dorwart, CSC Jeff Johansen 
Brandy Bartolone Andrew Mica Tim Royston TimVoono
John Tracy DuGene Bruce Jones 
Todd Bentley TommyDtiG! Mike .Jares Joel Miller Anna Ruiz David Wadsworth 
Joseph Bile Jeff Mirer Elizabeth Ruiz Jimmy Wagner
Tommy 1»4<e Chris Kehl 
David Blain May Erich Patrick Kelleher Paul Moberly James Ruquet Jason Wallin Rob Blomquist Peter VanEs Niel Keohne Te<iiy Molina TomSalalun Chris Wallis Eric Bohdan Dianne Fain Michael S. Kirby Cllris Morsrsn Brad Sandars Scott Walsh William J. Bolt Mike Knott J. A. Morel Dan Scamawck DonWarmke
Mike Farrell
Brian Bott David Koller .kllll MLJiirle Matt Scamavak Chtx:k Wehnes
Allan Feany
CtadBowman Giovanni Kotority 1lunas f.Ajen Bill Schatz Dan Weidenborener
Janet Fierst
Eric Bowman Mdrew Fontaine Jeff Kozlovich Neil Mulligan Tom Scheetz Jason Welch Mictael Box Colin Foster Denny Krembel JohnMu~ Lee Sheley Tim White Michael Boyd John T. Kurtz, Jr. Kevin Murpl'rj David Williams
Mike Frankertlush Michael Schierberl
TOOmas Breman Peter Murphy John Winkler
David Frenzel Jotl1 L.amn Brian Schiller
Joey Brenner Phil Wirsing
Hurley Fulk Jim L.aprad OwenMunay Dan Schneider
Chuck Broderick John Paul Larkin Patrick Myer Pete Witty
Eric Fuller Martin Schubert
Prue Brownley Peter Woodmansee
David Gagnon Mark Larson Pete Najera Terry Schwemper
Jim Brundage Matthew Laven Dennis Navarre Alex Wojicki
Brian Gannon Joe Schweninger
John Bursley Michael Navarre John Yaninek
Dozier Gardner Matt Lawrence Marty Sears
Joe Bystedt David LeBeau Arthur Navarro Johnny Young
Sean Garret Tim Shirsliln
Bill Caniano Paul Leeds Steve Neary Joseph Young
Jim Gass Kevin SheernnJohn Carey Nathan Gatonx Chris LeTourneau EricNiksch Bruce Sherry Frank Zimmerman Joseph Carino Brad Linsley Eric Novak Roger Zuidema
Mark'Gatto Simon Shimble
Pat Carr Simon Ussner Kevin O'Brien
Carl Gebo James Van SicklandCurtiss Carter George N. Gee Gregory Scott Littlejohn Jerry O'Connor Jim SiethAndy J. Cemicky John Gerth Ranay Livingston Emmett O'Hare Mike SlyJim Chapple Beau Giggy George Logdson Michael O'Leary Roger SnowRobert Chrobot Jim Gillen Jeff Lowe Odie Van Opdorp Michael Spitz
Tim Ciesialka John Lriesdale Michael Orrell
Jeffery T. Gipson Ken Stafanek
Steve Clear 
Reginald D. Glon Pam Lucas Mike Ott Katherine St. Dennis
Gregory Cleary RomieiVOO< Benjamin Par(lelinan
James Goebel Brett Steele
Danny Cluxton Brian Maher Paul Parks
Steven Gonzales Michael StefanchikMichael Coates Paul Goodman Scott Manning Steve Peelor Chris StevensonJohn L. Coath Mary Pat Govekar William Marctant Scott Peters Danny Stoeffel 
Patrick Collins Joey Graber Pat Markivitch Mdrew Peterson James Stolecki John Coniffe Javier Martinez Douglas Peterson
Chris Hall Scott Storer
Philip Coghlan Mike Petronis
Joe Harrington VIC Masserelli Albe Strazza 
Marty Coombs Chris Hashem 
Please let us know of additional names missing from this list.
Marty Cox JomHayden
Steve Cox 
Jam Hayes
Brett Crenwelge CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Peter HaynesJean Crutcher 
103 Hesburgh Library 



Business 


Thursday, February 28, 1991 
page 11 

Varsity Shop moves to improved locale 
By COLLEEN GANNON 
Business Editor 
The ND Varsity Shop will celebrate its grand opening in a new JACC location next week with specials on a variety of athletic apparel. 
The move from the Hockey Pro Shop enables the store to tlstablish regular business hours and provide a much larger and diversified line of merchandise. The room the shop now calls home was origi­nally a snack stand. 
"One of the problems with the Pro Shop was the hours ~ari~d from season to s11ason, said Amy Smith, manager of the Varsity Shop. In the past, the shop generally opened only when activities took place on the ice rink. 
During previous football seasons, the store temporarily set up in the boxing room. "We just did not want to take away anymore time from the boxers and non-varsity athletes," Smith said. 
The merchandise in the Var­sity Shop differs from that in the· ND Bookstore in order to give people a wider variety from which to chose, Smith said. "I try to have a more athletic garment," she added. 
"One of the goals of the Var­sity Shop is to have something for every sport," according to Smith. 
Along with traditional re­verse-weave sweatshirts, the most popular items in the shop are athletic grey t-shirts with different sport team names on them. These include such sports as ND baseball, soccer, and softball. 
"Anybody who puts in the time and plays in a particular sport ought to be able to buy something with that sport por­trayed," Smith said. 
In addition to the t-shirts, Smith said, a reverse-weave, grey sweatshirt with Notre Dame Women's Basketball in navy and green printing has been popular recently. 
In an effort to provide a vari­ety of merchandise, Smith seeks out other companies in addition to Champion, including Jansport, MVP, Bike, and a few local vendors. 
"Eventually I would really like to work with some students on designs. They really come up with some great ideas," she said. 
Smith said the store's location at the top of the stairs inside of Gate 2 works to their advantage. 
The location is beneficial be­cause many students spend time with sports and physical education in the JACC, people can park across the street, and visitors come through the building to look at such things as the Heritage Hall trophy cases, Smith said. 
The shop will be open regu­larly from 11p.m. to 6p.m. Monday through Saturday and 1p.m. to 6p.m. Sunday.The shop will also have extended hours for special events, such as men's and women's basketball games. 
The Hockey Pro Shop will still operate when the ice rink is in. It will revert back to selling just hockey equipment and hockey sweatshirts. 
Although Smith said she is looking into it, students cannot open student accounts. They do accept Visa, Mastercard, checks, and cash. 

NEW YORK (AP) -The price of jet fuel is nearly what it was before Iraq invaded Kuwait, but air fare increases imposed when oil prices were high are still in place as the airline in­dustry struggles to rebound from huge losses. 
The lower fuel prices alleviate just one of the three troubles that brought on record losses of about $2 billion last year, Air Transport Association spokesman Tim Neale said Wednesday. The others were recession and war. 
"We're going to have a pretty substantial loss again for this quarter. The estimates range anywhere from $1 billion to $2 billion," said Neale. But he added, "By no means are we in the crisis situation we were in in the fall." 
In October, the average na-

GSU CAMPAIGN FORUM 1991 Graduate Students 


come and hear 
The Goals and Objectives 
of your future GSU Presidential and Vice-Presidential Candidates: 
!Michael A. Brooks & Chris E. Meyer\ 
vs 
!Kurt A. Mills & Karen Slawnerl 
rrfiurscfay, ~e6ruary 28 1991, 7:00pm, 220 :J-{ayes :J-{ea{ey 
tiona! spot price for jet fuel shot up to $1.394 per gallon from 
57.8 cents the week before the Aug. 2 invasion. 
Since hitting the peak, prices have fallen steadily, to 67.4 cents a gallon in the third week of February. The average price paid by airlines can be higher, particularly for carriers that fill up at overseas destinations that have steep fuel taxes, but it is still down sharply. 
But there doesn't seem to be any talk of rolling back the rqughly 15 percent fare in­creases implemented last fall to offset the spiraling fuel prices. 
"We have a number of carri­ers that are just fighting for survival," said George James, chairman of Airline Economics Inc., a Washington-based avia­tion consulting firm. 
"Anytime you announce a 
fare increase or a fare de­crease, you're already two or three months late," said John Hotard, a spokesman at Ameri­can Airlines. 
"If I get a spike in fuel prices and I try to recover that with a corresponding increase in ticket prices, I've already lost 50 percent of my sales, because 50 percent of the tickets for travel in the next two months have already been purchased at the lower fare," he said. "I've got people traveling on that ex­pensive jet fuel, but they're traveling on a ticket that doesn't reflect that." 
The airlines also were bat­tered by the recession, with its obvious impact on consumer spending, and the Gulf War, which stirred fears of terrorism that cut deeply into overseas flying. 




Viewpoint
page 12 Thursday, February 28, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor .......••.......••••... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor ...•.•••.•..•..Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor .....•.........•.•... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .............••••••••••••Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••.••.•.Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

ND should start 'Peace ROTC' program for students 
Dear Editor:  know people that will die, or  peace in the name of Christ or  tive information. What we are  old ways, all for  a better new  
When I was at Notre Dame,  people know of families split up  for the better interests of the  now getting. however, is out of a  America and World. A true new  
there was a big debate about  by deployment, or, at the very  country is needed. Notre Dame  Bradbury or Orwell book. A  world order will not rely on  
the need for a "Peace ROTC."  least, people in this country  should not only train people to  democracy can not function  Victorian colonial means. It will  
People were asking how Notre  know someone who is disturbed  fight enemies outside the United  without an informed population.  be full of economic sanctions,  
Dame in its Catholic character  by the war, losing sleep, losing  States, but Notre Dame should  We cease to be well informed  conflict resolution techniques  
could take money from the  productivity, losing friends or  also train people to confront  when the military (completely  and real diplomacy. All offer no  
government in order to train  losing perspective.  those few leaders who do not  unaccountable to the public)  violence as solutions. Notre  
people for the military. With the  War in 1991 is not the same  see how much their actions  begins  to  cut  off  our  Dame needs to consider a Peace  
outbreak of real live war in the  at war in 1776, 1812, 1898,  destroy our society. Notre Dame  information. How can we decide  ROTC program for people that  
Middle East, Notre Dame's role  1917 or 1968. War today will  needs to pay for this program,  if we are willing to pay the price  want to serve their country and  
should be re-examined.  spend the United States into the  just as the government pays for  if the military lies to us about  the world in a peaceful con­ 
Whether a person looks at a  ground, no matter how much  future soldiers.  what the real cost is? Look at  structive way. If Notre Dame  
possible  conflict  from  a  the allies decide to chip in. Any  what the press is only  now  relies on its policy of training  
Christian point of view or simply  American that looks around the  The Peace ROTC program  discovering  concerning  "good Catholic boys and girls"  
from  an American citizen's,  country will see the homeless­ would train officers in an army  American atrocities in Panama.  for the military, with hopes that  
peace should be one of the first  ness, the need for education  of peaceful patriots. There is a  A Peace ROTC program could  alumni values will filter out into  
resolutions examined. A Catholic should try to follow the  and the need for job training. There are too many needs at  need for Conscientious Objector counselors, even without a  be easily created. Peace studies, organizational skills and politi­ the mentality of the armed forces. we are all on a doomed  
ways of Christ in dealing peacefully and justly with all possible conflict. Even a "just  home to be spending 500 million dollars a day on making war. What would our alternative  draft, and without war. Ask the American Friends Service Committee. The Wall Street  cal structures would all be taken into account. Students could also major in anything  path. We need more peacemakers before the human remains pouches begin to arrive  
war" needs to end sometime. A  energy program look like if we  Journal reports schools all over  while taking peace classes and  in bulk shipments. The Notre  
good Catholic will work toward  spent 500 million dollars a day  the country have set up CO  participating in peace-making  Dame family must do something  
a quick, peaceful end to any  on it? Whether a Christian or an  counseling centers.  activities. Scholarships could be  to stop the coming carnage in  
hostilities. A good American will  American or both, war should  There is a need for organiz­ given on a free money  basis or  this war and future wars. To do  
also try to find peaceful ways to  almost never be the chosen  ers. A few weeks ago 350,000  on loans that would be given  nothing but continue to train  
end international disputes. War  option.  people gathered in Washington.  after  service  to  the  peace  people for the military is as bad  
is not too good for America,  Everyone can see the need for  Another 250,000 were in San  movement. The military could  as  being  one  of  the  men  
especially from the individual  a military. We need to deter en­ Francisco. Demonstrations like  act as the model, with the ex­ responsible for the upcoming  
point of view. It is amazing that  emy attacks and be prepared to  that or like the smaller ones  ception of teaching peace in­ river of blood.  
out of a nation of 250 million  defend democracy and our con­ that take place daily need lead­ stead of war.  
people everyone seems to know  stitution. There is also a very  ers, as well as participants.  Peace ROTC people could be­ Zack Hudgins  
someone in the  500,000 troops  real need for a peace move­ There is a need for reliable  come the backbone of a better  Class of '90  
in the Middle East.  That means  ment. A pool of trained people  information. The military now  America. They would be the  Austin, Texas  
a  lot of people are going to  willing to stand out and call for  censors what it considers sensi­ ones to present alternatives to  Feb.20,1991  

 Notion that a Christian cannot  
support war is narrow-minded  
Dear Editor:  holds only if one assumes that  contradiction are that a war  
A faulty argument  seems  the Gospel is meant to answer  cannot be used to spread the  
quite prevalent on this campus.  every problem in the world, in­ Gospel and that the Gospel  
Some claim rightly that the  cluding border disputes and  cannot be used to justify a war.  
Gospel and war contradict each  state sovereignty. Eschewing  
other  but  then  conclude  this narrow-minded assump­ Michael Scott  
wrongly that a Christian cannot  tion, the two correct conclu­ Class of '89  
support a war. This conclusion  sions to be drawn from the  Feb.22,1991  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

YtS, 
5/R? 
\ 
I'M MAJOR t. "BUZZ"f066. I'V/3 JUST 8S­C.ORT&V INA 
P/<&?'3 POOL-... 
YOUR UcUTENANT Tl3US Me YCV'V8 !3fEN AROJNO, kNOW 7H& !?RIU-, 87&., ?0J'J) Ul<8 YOU 7DB8 7H8 V851@NATW MP FO!< TH& !<&POR:T&.f<S. 
\ 

'Ask much, but take as much as they offer.' 
Russian Proverb 

Viewpoint

Thursday, February 28, 1991 page 13 

Ineffective Honor Code should be altered or abolished 
The Academic Code of Honor at the University of Notre Dame, as it currently exists, should be abolished. There are several flaws in the school's honor code which combine to make it just another murky rule handed down from the Administration, instead of a shining code of conduct from the student body. Among the many flaws which render this code unusable are: No one seems to know anything about it other than that it exists; when combined work is allowable and when it is unacceptable is never made clear; and, it inadvertently adds to the feel­ings of compntition among stu­dnnts, which is one of the main masons for cht~ating. 
At the bnginning of each aca­dnmic year, students usually re­ceivn a copy of Du Lae and are supposed to receive the "Academic Code of Honor Handbook." From these two items students are expectnd to glean all the expectations and guidelines of the honor code. Unfortunately, most returning studnnts nither assume they al-
LETTERS 
ready know the rules or are too rushed getting ready for the year to actually read these items. More often, they are ei­ther stowed in a place where they are forgotten or they are circular filed. Without knowl­edge of the honor code, it can not be of any real use. There are two articles supporting the code in the handbook. Both stress that for the code to suc­ceed, it must be explained to-and understood by-the students who must live and work under it. Unfortunately, few students know about, care about or support the honor code. 
The second problem with the current honor code is that most professors do not give any in­formation about how the code will be applied and judged in their class. In my experience, no teacher has ever said any­thing about the honor code other than a general an­nouncement at the beginning of the semester that the class was under the code. In many classes, certain assignments can be worked on coopera-
Suzanne FitzGerald 
Guest Columnist 

tively, but no one ever specifies where the line between cooperative work ends and cheating begins. Obviously, some instances, like closed­book, in-classroom exams, are not open to cooperative work, but is it allowable to use good suggestions from friends when writing papers? If I'm having trouble with a program can I ask someone in the class to look at it and give me suggestions for trouble-shooting? Very few professors ever detail their in­terpretation of what is accept­able, and therefore the students are never sure when that pro­fessor would say they were cheating. 
Finally, to work, the honor code demands that students in­form on other students. Without a change in the attitudes of the students at our university, this major point in the honor code will never work. For this change to occur, the students would need to be given more information about how this code works and how it helps make life at Notre Dame better. Currently, it seems that students are expected to inform due to a feeling that we are helping ourselves, our entire class and even that poor person who is cheating. That is not how it is. Also, this informing on one other leads to a height­ened sense of competition among the students. One of the major problems that leads to cheating is the feeling that grades are so important that any way to improve them is for the better. The honor code does not address this problem and instead expects people who al­ready feel competition with each other to be the ones who inform on each other. 

For an honor code to work and be effective, it must have the respect of the students who work under it. To gain this re­spect, the students must know more about the code than sim­ply that it exists and they are all under it. The student must be informed of all the rules and how they apply, not only gener­ally, but specifically in each class. At Notre Dame, the honor code is a vague, little-known thing, imposed from above. The students know very little about it, most do not respect it and are not willing to report on each other. Therefore, the Academic Code of Honor should either be abolished or, at least, substantially altered. 
Suzanne FitzGerald is a se­nior government major and a member of the Iceberg Debates Standing Committee. 


Military expenditures account for far too much of U.S. budget 
Dear Editor: by military expenditures, which ($30 billion) could have built 
I am writing in rnsponse to a increased dramatically during solar power systems for nine rectwt column by Michael the years of the Reagan cities of 200,000 persons. Swope (The Observer, Feb. 19) Administration. As the military Our environment is at stake, which stated thai half of the expanded in the 80's, the na­as well as the health and wel­federal budget is devoted to tional debt grew from $750 bil­fare of our people and our spir­social welfare programs and lion to nearly $3 trillion dollars. itual and moral integrity. What one-quarter to one-third It is estimated that every man, does it say about a country (depending on the fiscal year) to woman and child in the U.S. when we invest so much of our defense. The figures the author has been indebted by $10,000. resources in the development of citHd are inaccurate, although During this same period, large weapons of mass destruction through no fault of his own. cuts were made in housing and in the training of young 
initiatives, health care, em­men and women to kill others? 
Ills statistics were based on ployment and training pro­What kind of violent ethos does 
U.S. Office of Management and grams, mass transit, etc. I rec­this spread throughout the na­Budget reports, which can be ognize that the deep social tion? Dear Editor: liable to evoke some bad feel­very misleading. Since 1968, problems of our country cannot Although I agree with Michael ings from the reader, as does rather than reporting how our be solved by simply "throwing There are alternatives to war. Swope's claim (The Observer, the next paragraph, while it actual taxes are spent, the gov­money at them" ; a creative re­Nonviolent measures such as Feb. 19), his argument contains belittles welfare advocates ernment began producing a structuring of the economy and civilian-based resistance, inter­major flaws. His first mistake is through its language. "unified budget," which com­renewed moral vision is called national mediation through to suggest that welfare is a bined the expenditures of tax for. Military expenditures cu­such bodies as the U.N., eco­partisan issue by equating wel­At this point, Swope arrives at revenues and Social Security mulating in the trillions, how­nomic sanctions, etc. can and fare supporters to people of the solid support for generation funds. Social Security does dis­ever, prevent this from happen­have worked in the past. "liberal persuasion." Then he welfare families only to aban­tribute hundreds of billions of ing. Poverty in the United states Tragically, they were not given misleads the reader by intro­don it, launching a psychologi­dollars every year, but these are grew steadily in the 1980's. adequate time in the present ducing statistics that suggest his cal case study on American so­not tax revenues but rather re­conflict. article is debating welfare ciety which he is not qualified to tirement trust funds. Their in­Contrary to popular opinion, versus defense spending. give. Finally this theorizing clusion in the "unified budget" military spending does not pro­Furthermore, our military as compels him to discuss what a masked the escalating costs of duce a secure economy. Tax it currently is structured, is not Finally, in the middle of the government is unable to do for the Vietnam War and continues money spent on military pro­actually a "defense department" third paragraph, we discover an individual. The only problem to make our military spending grams generates far less em­but has considerable offensive his real thesis, which begins to is that since he has not sup­appear much smaller relative to ployment than the same amount capability (e.g. first-strike turn the essay around. Swope ported his claim until now, domestic spending than is ac­spent in other areas and also nuclear weapons, inter­claims that "the welfare society these conclusions are not valid. tually the case. produces a "research and ventionary forces, etc.). To has undermined the social fab­From here, Swope seems to 
When Social Security trust development" drain, taking transform it into an actual de­ric of the Untied States." While have organized his thoughts fund expenditures are dis­scientists away from domestic fensive institution as advocated this is true, he unnecessarily more clearly as he suggests a counted and military-related sector work. According to by such analysts as the Institute adds that this has led to the new welfare policy. costs falling in spending cate­Marion Anderson in Neither for Defense and Disarmament downfall of other welfare soci­Surprisingly, he does this quite gories other than the Jobs Nor Security , the United Studies would secure our eties since the beginning of well by showing the problem, Department of Defense are in­States loses 3,848,000 potential borders and drastically reduce time. This becomes superfluous proposing his new policy and cluded, one finds that military jobs for every $135 billion we our military expenditures. because he does not go on to even setting up a plan for its sptmding encompasses about 50 spend on the military. give examples. Hope emerges implementation. But this still percent of our tax dollar, As President Eisenhower said, once again as he lists areas in leaves me hopelessly lost at according to the Military Moreover, current levels of every gun that is made and ev­society that have deteriorated finding a solid argument against Spending Hesearch Service. In military spending are jeopardiz­ery rocket launched is a theft as a result of welfare programs, welfare itself. In fact, I 1989, they found that income­ing the possibility of the cre­from those who hunger, those but again he fails to provide challenge someone to take assistance expenditures ac­ation of an ecologically-sub­who are cold and those who are sufficient proof. Instead he gives Swope's series of blatantly bi­countod for only three percent stainable way of life. Not only is not clothed. This is the condi­a set of hypothetical questions ased generalizations and of the federal budget, as did the military the largest polluter tion in which the majority of the that are supposed to conclude change them into clear, con­
-
agriculture and transportation. in the country (according to the people world-wide find that welfare substitutes for vincing arguments. Only then Education, housing, employ­Center for Defense Information), themselves today. Meanwhile, interpersonal relationships. But will I feel more confident with ment compensations and envi­but a $310 billion Defense we go on building bombs. we are missing evidence in the my own opinion and will pro­ronmontal protection each re­Department budget does not "This," said Eisenhower, "is not form of statistics, expert opinion welfare advocates begin to view ceived a mere two percent of leave much money for solar a way of life at all, in any true or even short anecdotes. modern welfare in a new unbi­our federal tax dollar. power development, transitions sense. Under the cloud of Swope's use of comparison ased light. These conditions are to organic agriculture, the threatening war, it is humanity and contrast to show changes in necessary before any policy can 
Such misuse of our national combatting of acid rain, etc. hanging from a cross of iron." the American work ethic is be changed. resources has dire conse­According to the World Watch promising, at least until he quences both for ourselves and Institute, the estimated amount Elizabeth Groppe Sniegocki mysteriously concludes that to­Paul Notaro for our children. Our national that went last year to Pentagon Off-campus day immigrants are the "real Alumni Hall dAbt has been generated largely Waste, Fraud and Abuse alone Feb. 20,1991 Americans." This statement is Feb.25,1991 

' 
~ 
t 
~ 
Accent 

page 14 
Paul Muldoon: 
A modern day 
Seanachie 
By CORINNE PAVLIS Saint Mary's Editor 
Tonight at Saint Mary's College, a modern day seanachie will do what seanachies do best: present a reading. 
'Seanachie' is an Irish word that means a storyteller who embellishes his stories with the tricks of speech and an artistry which captures and fires the imagination of his audience. The word is often used to describe one of the country's foremost young poets: Paul Muldoon. 
The Irish poet has written six collections of poetry of which the latest one, "Madoc," was published in October 1990. Muldoon is also the author of "New Weather," "Mules," "Quoof'and "Meeting the British." His 1980 book, "Why Brownlee Left," won the Geoffrey Faber Memorial Prize. 
Muldoon is typically associated with poets like Seamus Heaney, Michael Longley, Derek Mahon, and James Simmons. All of these poets emerged in Northern Ireland over a short period of time and have achieved international recognition. Heaney, in particular, is internationally renowned. These poets have come to be associated with the "Ulster" movement. Muldoon, born in 1951 in County Armagh, Ireland, is the youngest of the group. 
The poet left County Armagh to be educated at Queen's University in Belfast where he was tutored by Heaney. It was also at Queen's University that Muldoon met Longley and Michael Allen, a poetry critic. The men met weekly and discussed their new poems. Of these meetings Muldoon has said "It was very important for me, since a writer must be a good critic of his own work. There was no sloppiness in the group and everyone was quite out-spoken." 
Muldoon won his first literary award at the age of twenty-one. He published his frrst book of poems, "New Weather," a year later. Muldoon is not only a poet; he has also worked as a producer, both in radio and television for the British Broadcasting Corporation in Belfast. In · 1986 the poet left Belfast to devote himself to writing and teaching at Cambridge and the University of East Anglia. He is currently teaching at Princeton University. 
This is not the first visit Muldoon has made to South Bend. Last year the poet participated in the fourth annual Graduate Student Conference 
"'Seanachie' is an Irish word that means a storyteller who embellishes his stories with the tricks of speech and an artistry which captures and fires the imagination of his audience." 
in Irish Literature and Culture at Notre Dame. 
Saint Mary's Ireland Program Counselor, Roxann Brown, helped organize the event and was quite impressed with Muldoon's work. When Muldoon expressed disap­pointment over not having enough time to explore the two campuses, Brown decided to bring him back with the help of Saint Mary's Student Academic Council, the English department, and the Minority, International & Non-Traditional Student Life office (MINT). 
"I thought this was a great opportunity for the college to expand and explore a relationship with an up and coming artist," said Brown of the poet's visit to the College. "He is just so fantastic," added Brown. 
Brown is not the only member of the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community singing Muldoon's praises. English Professor John Matthias, who is also an active poet, said "I think Muldoon is one of the most interesting poets currently writing in the English language." 
Matthias also commented on Muldoon's form and style. "He is both thoroughly Irish in one sense and able to manifest the characteristics of a post-modern style found in 
'Why Brownlee Left' 
By Paul Muldoon 
hy Brownlee left, and where he went, 
a mxstery eyen ,D,QW. 

or it :hman should. haf~b~~n content 
n~~flr p16¥~l~~.¥olfl~ulrtck~~· enu,a:la~t s~~~'i:tdJ8fnlfl~~~st~· plough 
n a March morn1ng, "bright ahd. e'::lrly. 
H
~og~JfJ>Jril}}~~1 '~]~MW8JIJ; with 0 e~~;~,tl¥Jl.'Ai~J.Okecr\Jn~,pair Ol black lfi1ng mr we1:lft frliom.foot to 
ot, a1l gazing lhto t e tuture. 
Reprinted with the permission of Wake Forest Press. 

American poetry in another sense." Of his form and technique Matthias said "He is a master. Muldoon is the best reader of his own poetry around at the present time. He looks to be the next coming poet of Ireland." 
Brown was pleased to see enthusiasm and participation on behalf of the students and other departments. "I like to try to do something every year that involves the students in leadership positions," explained Brown. Students currently taking Poetry with English Professor Jeanne Rodes this semester will also participate in the event. A poetry workshop with Muldoon has been sched­uled today for Rodes's students. Rodes has been using several of Muldoon's works from "Mules" in class readings and discussions. 
Lisa Harrell, one of Rodes's poetry students, has been chosen to give a tour of the Saint Mary's campus to Muldoon on Thursday morning. Harrell, a senior 
Thursday , february 28, 1991 

Communications Major with a minor in English Writing, traveled to Ireland for her Junior year on the College's Ireland program. "I am very excited to have someone such as Paul Muldoon, who is such a great poet coming to Saint Mary's. I fmd the young poet to be inspirational. The evening should prove to be interesting for everyone." 
Brown also hopes to see the Theatre and Music Departments take an active role in interacting with the poet as he is now working on the lyrics of an opera with an American writer. Brown hopes the relationship between the poet and the College will be ongoing and that ultimately "the Theatre and Music Departments will bring him back as a poet in residence." 
The reading will be held in Stapleton Lounge in Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary's tonight at 8:00 p.m. A reception will fol­low the presentation. Both the reading and reception are free. 
The sisters of Nefertiti express rhythm and rhyme 
By ANGELA MCDONALD Accent Writer 
The Sisters of Nefertiti will present a cultural extravaganza entitled, "An Expression in 
. Rhythm and Rhyme" at 8:00 
p.m. on Saturday March 2 in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students will perform various skits, black poetry readings, artistic dance pieces and musi­cal selections to promote cul­tural awareness. Christopher Brown, a participant in the program stated,"I think th·e program will be very educa­tional as well as entertaining." 
"An Expression in Rhythm and Rhyme" is the brainchild of eight African American stu­dents at Saint Mary's who are more commonly known as the Sisters of Nefertiti. With the help of the Minority, International and Non-tradi­tional office, the students ad­vertised and coordinated acts for the program. 
"Preparation for this event has been hectic for the past three weeks, but we just felt that it was necessary to expose the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community to the artistic expressions of African Americans," stated one of the organizers. 
The program is open to the public and admission is free. There will also be a dance/reception with a D.J. fol­lowing the event. 
"We urge everyone to come out and support a program that has been long overdue," stated Suzanne Glass, a member of the group. 

-
The Observer page 15 Thursday, February 28, 1991 
-

Penn State to be fully integrated into Big Ten by 1993 
our new conference isn't help­
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) -conference," Paterno said. "The Virginia -all traditional Penn Penn State will be fully admit­Big Ten is another added State opponents -would be 4 ing us." 
years old. She has filled 21 of 28 datestPd into the 'Big Ten by 1993, a challenge." 
Michigan football coach Gary "We were the first conference next year, only 10 against
schedule sought by football 
coach Joe Paterno and the uni­Moeller expressed concern that to expand, but it wasn't until teams from her old and new conferences.
versity's president. new schedules could have the others expanded and agreed to let people in that "I don't mind it once, but
The conference's athletic di­teams playing a different 
number of conference games, there was pressure on the Big twice could kill a coach," sherectors and women's athletic Ten," said Rene Portland, coach said.
administrators voted Tuesday giving some teams an of Penn State second-rankedto make Penn State eligible for advantage. 
women's basketball team. Men's basketball coach Brucethe Big Ten football crown and The league had previously A delay also could have hurt Parkhill said last week that hea Rose Bowl berth in 1993 and announced that Penn State 
Penn State's basketball pro­had filled half his 1991-92
league basketball titles in the could begin competing in most grams, which are members of schedule. Fewer than half the
1992-93 season. minor sports next year but that "I had a feeling it would be the football and men's and the Atlantic 10 Conference until teams in the Big Ten and A-10 Carolina already would be vet­the end of June. Both teams had offered to help, he said. 
1993," said Penn State presi­women's basketball teams 
dent Joab Thomas. would have to wait, possibly erans in the Southeastern played 18 league games that "I never heard a good reason Conference, Florida State were the bulk of their sched­why it was taking this long,"
''I'd been doing a little bit of until1995. 
would be established in the ules. Parkhill said. "There's no rea­work on that," Thomas said, Such a timetable would have Atlantic Coast Conference and "I'm having a hard time son for any delay." 
admitting to some behind-the­put the Big Ten behind other the new Big East football con­·scheduling games (for next Penn State's football programscenes work. "1 always felt we merging and emerging confer­
ference that includes year)," Portland said. "Our old has been independent and hadcould get in by 1993." ences. 
Pittsburgh, Syracuse and West conference isn't helping us and no trouble filling Its schedule. 
''I'm anxious to get into the By 1995, Arkansas and South 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

Need ride to N. VA, Ball. or DC For Sale: 1 rnd trp tix to Orlando Resumes .... Professional quality FRITZ KLEIN· AUDITIONS FOR area for spring break. Will help pay for Spring Break. We'll talk price. 272·5667. (Tom Williams) My love for you still throbs · I SHAKESPEAREI
I NOTICES 
expenses. Call Rob x1891 cannot handle life without seeing Chris 1235. ATTENTION I you, longing for your arms to AUDITIONS FOR TYPING AVAILABLE National firm has many part-time embrace the flame of my being, SHAKESPEAREI 287·4082 NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO openings. Looking for students who wanting your every hunger that, too, 
ncKETS 

OR OXFORD VICINITY ON live within 1 00-mile radius of is mine,yearning for us to succumb "THE COMEDY OF ERRORSI" NY TIMES. used and new books MARCH 8 OR 9. WILL PAY$$$. BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING campus for special work program. to ecstacy in a night of wild Pandora's Books 233·2342 CALL KATIE X2862. BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING $8.10 starting. AASP scholarships passion... You are my forever "THE COMEDY OF ERRORS" corner of ND ave. & Howard BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING & internships available. Flexible Casanova! 1 0·5:30 everyday Need ride to Phila for Break. schedule. Call 259·9740 for •• a lustful admirer .. AUDITIONS .... 
Ed 3317 Will split expenses. Sun. Feb. 24, 1991 12:30pm interview. WORD PROCESSING -Term 7:30pm Photography for Formals-Halls· Will be held TODAY from 3-6 p.m. papers, reports. lefters. etc. A ride home on spring break ; I need a ride to New York· • Dances· ROTC. Call IHS at Theodore's, and tomorrow from Experienced legal secretary. anywhere near Philly or Del. Wed. Feb. 27, 1991 7:30pm Syracuse vicinity. If any· Photography at 234·8539. 6·9 p.m. at Theodore's. Anyone 
(616) 699-7387. •• will help with $$ •• one is going that way save interested in acting or production 
call Matt #2052 Fri. Mar. 1, 1991 8:00pm me and give me a call. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY please anend. SPRING BREAK!II $136.00 X4049 CALLING VANESSA 272·9305. The reason for this production: ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY Show your support and buy tickets Because we like GREYHOUND GOES. is looking for a guitarist. If from the student boxers II I WHEN?? •• Spring Break Money •• Shakespeare and the Theater. RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541 interested. call Thorn X3334 THURSDAY! (2 DAYS Notre Dame Fed Credit Union 
or Kevin X3347. 1 RT CHICAGO-PHOENIX OR BEFORE NELLIE TURNS 21) No Co-Signer Necessary Be a Shadowhead. Come see ... RESUMES..PROFESSIONAL ORANGE COUNTY 3/6-3/18. WHERE?? •• See Our Ad •• THE FIVE O'CLOCK SHADOWS QUALITY. CALL 272-5667. NAME A PRICE·X1779 ned' @ BRIDGET'S! (A PLACE Fri-Senior Bar 
FOR RENT 
THAT NELLIE WILL LEGALLY BE Going to Syr, NY 4 break? Sat-Club 23 WORD PROCESSING ABLE TO GO ON SATURDAY) Need plane tix cheap? Call Low Rales ~ 277·6091 GRAD. WEEKEND WHO?? x3623 ''''JUNIORs••••
PERSONALS 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY GOOD QUESTION?!? TYPING term 219-291-7153. Adoption: Loving couple, doctor (ASK NELLIE!) NOW LEASING The ticket of Dennis-Brian-Dave papers/reports/lefters/resumes. and teacher, longing to share our LAFAYETTE SQUARE and Tom would like to thank all 311 Pick up & delivery available. 277 · 3 Bedroom Homes. love with newborn. We'll give your FRESHMEN ENGINEERS ... TOWNHOMES of you who voted for us on 5134 Cathy Walk to campus. baby a caring, warm, and happy Learn about majoring in Monday. We re-gret that your vote 
232·3616 home. Expenses paid. Call Carol CHEMICAL ENGINEERING I 4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS didn't select next year's officers, and Frank collect 212·874-3537. AVAILABLE but we ask that you lend your LOST/FOUND Move Off Campus in '91·'92. THURSDAY support to the Switzer ticket and 
3 great houses avail. Sign CLUB 23 7:00pm AMENITIES INCLUDE: their endeavors. Thanks again and FOUND: A necklace on 16 Feb in lease before break and get at ·WASHER AND DRYER enjoy your Spring Break. the snow near P.E. Call x4530. discount. Call now 288-5653. Daily Specials. New addition: Theodores ·SECURITY SYSTEM 
The Coffee House ...FREE PIZZA'.. ·DISHWASHER THE GENERICS 
LOST: FLORIDA KEYS I Bring your books and come ·CENTRAL AIR A 35mm camera was left hanging HOUSE RENTALS study, or just come socialize. LAST CHANCE Ill ·PATIOS At BRIDGET'S, Friday Nile, on the coat rack in Room 101 of Near Key West and beaches Open daily 4pm-3am. 10·2. They were busted LAST Galvin Life Sciences on Sat. the Call Rich 288·5428 Cancun from $359.00 ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS week, chances are slim for a 16th-during JPW weekend. If you CLUB 23 Air and seven nights LEFTIIIIIII repeat. Think about it... See ya 
have any info. , please please call: Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Call For More Info Now there I Tim #1151 Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms Daily Specials. New addition: No cash? Take out a loan from the 232-8256 
for The Coffee House credit union and then calli KERRYWATE-found: on 2/22/91 a lady's Graduation weekend. Located at Bring your books and come CHRONIC THE SEPTIC SNAKE, wristwatch was found outside of Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart study, or just come socialize. Mike 277·0253 DESIRE MR. LIBERATE KUWAIT, Knott Hall around 11 :00 p.m. If you (12 miles from South Bend) Open daily 4pm-3am. YOU DID GREATIIIIIII can identify it, call x1209. Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 FRITZ KLEIN CHRONIC 
deposit per room. Send Iefier with CLUB 23 I'm still waiting to hear your DESIRE Hey Lustful Admirer Found : corduroy ND cap after deposit to 3011 response to my never ending I would love to cover each other in Depaul game in band room under Belvedere Ad, Elkhart, Daily Specials. New addition: yearnings for your sexy hunk of At last they're here: Cool Whip and then wrestle in stands. Call Matt-x 3472. IN 46514. The Coffee House manhood. Why do you leave me in Instant Jello,allowing our bodies to 
Bring your books and come hanging in the midst of my CHRONIC DESIRE meld into one, but I think you have LOST: I lost my thin link gold 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91·92 study, or just come socialize. passion? Please respond soon or I me confused with my former bracelet on Wednesday, Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232·1776. Open.daily 4pm·3am. might have to resort to something Club 23 : Thursday roommate John Green. Feburary 2011 If you find it, drastic Ill Coffee House ; Friday Fritz please call Jessica at 4824. Furnished Bedrooms and Shared CLUB 23 **..a lustful admirer**** Senior Bar : Soon I 
Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr. LOST nice Casio calculator. Washer and Dryer. $200 per month Daily Specials. New addition: Do you not have a clue about how THIS is the one: Saturday probably at the Huddle. If includes utilities. Ph. 232·1776. The Coffee House you are getting back to ND after 
SOPHOMORES 

you found it, PLEASE return it· no Bring your books and come spring break is over? Do you live in CHRONIC DESIRE questions asked. Reward. study, or just come socialize. the New England area? Can you call 4354. Open daily 4pm-3am. drive a stick? WOULD YOU LIKE Thursday night@ Club 23 
Peace Corps 

FOR SALE 
A RIDE? If you answered yes to Trust me. 
Internships 

FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd I need a ride to D.C.Nirginia for any of these questions, give me a floor, rm 224?) on Sun. 2/24/91. GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 Easter Break. Dana x2697. You will call. I need a passenger for the 
Information

Call Matt @3472. (U repair). Delinquent tax property. enjoy my company. return trip only. MY NAME IS LIMPY 
Avallable

Repossessions. Your area (1) 805 -Moire x4914 AND WHEN I DRINK ..... . 
.....
Mon. Mar4

962·8000. SPRING BREAK SPECIAL WELL, JUST ASK GEORGEII
WANTED 
Ext. GH-9834 for current repo SAVE SAVE SAVEll Tom: 
7:00P.M. 

list. CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK ok, so it's not a joke. you convinced 
esc 

EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK OF FUN AND SUNil me. impressive ... now you'll have to WHEN?? READING BOOKS AT HOME. NEON BEVERAGE SIGNS SUN SPLASH TOURS do the 'hello' thing. buck up, and go SATURDAY (TWO DAYS CALL 1·615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. Scoftsdale Mall Antique Show 1·800-426· 7710. for it. M.Y. AFTER GOOD QUESTION PLAYS 
FEb. 28 thru March 3. p.s. i told you i would AT BRIDGETS) 
Now Leasing 

I NEED ride to Boston WHERE?? 
FA VETTE SQUARE

Will split gas & driving One way tix from NY-SB on 3/17. ATTENTION! ATTENTION I I NEED A RIDE HOME TO ALL OVER HIMSELFII March 7, 8, or 9 Cheap I call Janice x2993 ATTENCIONI CLEVELAND ON FRIDAY MARCH WHO?? 
TOWNHOMES Derek x1373 8. WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS ALOT OF PEOPLE ..... 
4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS 
-

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. TAKE YOUR FRUSTRATIONS AND TOLLS. CALL KATHIE @ (CRUISER, BUTT, LIMPY, and 
AVAILABLE 

ROCHESTER, NY; I need a ride for Buying a car? Good rates. Call me OUT ON THOSE WILD & 4045. NELLIE ARE ALL TURNING 21) Amenities lndude· 
spring break; call John x3371 for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289·1993. RECKLESS LYONITESI -WASHER & DRYER 
Office near campus. 2 people need a RIDE to the ·SECURITY SYSTEMI NEED A RIDE TO PHILLY FOR CREAM YOUR FAVORITE PITTSBURGH AREA for break. Will To 76 Seniors from California: ·DISHWASHERSPRING BREAK:WILL PAY HALF HEARSE, 1975 OLDSMOBILE LYONITE. SIGN-UPS AT THE help pay gas/tolls. Lisa X3783 or So you thought I was CRAZY, 
-CENTRAL AIR 

GAS/TOLLS-MIKE x3589 EXCELLENT CONDITION DINING HALLS DURING DINNER Dan X1772 did you? " ... dragon and beast ·PATIOS
BEST OFFER · CALL PAUL IN TIME. and false prophet" of Revela· HelpII CHICAGO 312·235·6959 what do Don Corleone, Trojans, lions Ch. 16, vs. 12 refers to 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS I need a ride to New Jersey or NYC TAKES PLACE UNDER THE Playtex and Boston have in Russia and Iraq and U.S.A. 
LEFT I on spring break II FOR SALE: Panasonic VCR. Low ARCH AT 4:30 FRIDAY, common? only the Greek knows, Millions will die. I warned 
ALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. JJ X4842 Price. Call Mike 271-8795 MARCH 1,1991. Ana you. Michael 
232-8258 

-
Thursday, February 28, 1991 
page 16 Scoreboard 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared Wednesday: 
1. 
UNLV (26-0) did not play. Next: at Fullerton Stale, Salurday. 

2. 
Ohio Stale (24-1) did not play. Next: va. Michigan Stale, Sunday. 

3. 
Arlcanaaa (28·2) did not play. Next: a1 Texas, Sunday. 

4. 
North Carolina (21-4) did not play. Next: at Georgia Tech, Thursday. 

5. 
Indiana (23-4) did not play. Next: at Michigan State, Thursday. 


8. Syracuse (25-4) did not play. Next: va. Georgetown, Sunday. 
7. 
Arizona (23-5) did not play. Next: at Oregon State, Thursday. 

8. 
Duke (24-6) beat Clemson 79-62. Next: YS. No.4 North Carolina, Sunday. 

9. 
Utah (25-2) did not play. Next: at Brigham Young, Saturday. 

10. 
Kansas (21-5) did not play. Next: at No. 15 Nebraska, Sunday. 

11. 
N-Mexico State (21-4) did not play. Next: vs. Pacific U .. Thursday. 

12. 
Oklahoma State (21-5) beat No. 15 Nebraska 110-69. Next: at Iowa State, Saturday. 

13. 
Kentucky (21-8) did not play. Next: YS. Auburn, Saturday. 

14. 
Southern Mississippi (20-5) did not play. Next: vs. Southeastern Louisiana, Thursday. 

15. 
Nebraska (23-6) lost to No. 12 Oklahoma State 80-69. Next: vs. No. 10 Kansas, Sunday. 

16. 
UCLA (20-7) did not play. Next: at Washington State, Thursday. 

17. 
St. John's (20-6) did not play. Next: at DePaul, Saturday. 

18. 
LSU (20-7) beat Florida 79-66. Next: at No. 23 Mississippi State, Saturday. 

19. 
East Tennessee State (25-4) did not play. Next: Southern Conference tournament. 

20. 
Salon Hall ( 18-8) lost to Connecticut 62-60, OT. Next: Big East Conference tournament. 

21. 
Prlncalon (21-2) did not play. Next: at Harvard, Friday. 

22. 
Pittsburgh (20-9) did not play. Next: vs. Connecticut, Saturday. 

23. 
Mlaslaslppl State (19-7) beat Auburn 94-76. Next: va. No. 18 LSU, Saturday. 

24. 
Alabama (17-9) did not play. Next: vs. Tenn98889, Saturday. 

25. 
Virginia (20-9) did not play. Next: vs. Maryland, Saturday. 


TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American Laague 
NEW YORK YANKEES-Agreed to terms wtth 
Hensley Meuiena, outfielder, and Alan Milia and 
Kevin Mmahat, pHchers, on one-year contracts. 
TEXAS RANGER~Agreed to terms wHh Scott 
Chlarrparino and Jim Poole, pttchers, and Kevin 
Belcher, outfielder, on one-year contracts. Agreed 
to terms with David Chavarria, pttcher, on a minor­
league contract. 
New Yorti-Penn League 
AUBURN ASTRO~Named Don Alexander 
pttchlng coach. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football LHgue 
NFL-Narned Nell A. Austrian preeldent. 
DALLAS COWBOYS-Signed Freddie 
Childress, offensive lineman. 
DETROIT LIONS-81gned Shawn Bouwens, 
offensive end. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-81gned Jell Faulkner, 
defensive end. 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey League 
NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Announced the 
retirement ol AI St-. left wing. Recalled Roland 
Melanson, goalie, and Jell Madll, right wing, from 
Lttlca ol the American Hockey League. 
PITISBURGH PENGUINS-Recalled Bruce 
Racine, goalie, from M uakegon ol the lnlefnatlonal 
Hockey League. 
HORSE RACING THE RED MILE-Announced the resignation ol Curt Greene, general manager. 
COLLEGE ARMY-Named Tim Mlngey assistant alhlallc director and lootbal recruttlng coordinator. BENTLEY-Announced the resignation or Larry Welsa, men's and wornen'8 coach. TENNESSEE-Named Randy Sanders to offensive coaching stall. 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
How the Associated Preas' Top 25 women's teams fared Wednesday: 
1. 
Virginia (26-1) did not play. 

2. 
Penn Stale (24-1) did not play. 

3. 
Georgia (25-2) did not play. 

4. 
Tennessee (23-4) did not play. 

5. 
Auburn (23-4) did not play. 

6. 
Purdue (23-2) did not play. 

7. 
North Carolina Stale (23-5) did not play. 

8. 
Arlcan&M (24-3) beat Baylor 110-74. 

9. 
Washington (20-3) did not play. 

10. 
Stanford (21-4) did not play. 

11. 
W98tem Kentucky (23-2) did not play. 

12. 
LSU (21-8) did not play. 

13. 
Conneellcut (23-4) did not play. 

14. 
Texas (19-7) beat Texas Christian 77-40. 

15. 
UNLV (22-5) did not play. 


18. Providence (23-4) did not play. 
17. Rutgers (22-4) did not play. 1B. MissiBSippl (I 9-7) did not play. 
19. 
Stephen F. Austin (22-4) did not play. 

20. 
Northw98tem (17-7) did not play. 

21. 
Iowa (17-7) did not play. 

22. 
Notre Dame (20-5) did not pl•y. 

23. 
Long Beach State (18-7) did not play. 

24. 
George Washington (21-4) did not play. 

25. 
Lamar (25-2) did not play. 


NCAA BASKETBALL SCORES 
EAST Colby 94, Bates 66 Conneellcut 62, Seton Hall 60, OT George Washington 64, St. Bonaventure 71 Harnlkon 79, Lttlca 48 Hartford 68, Cent. Connecticut St. 53 Hartwick 89, Oneonta St. 73 hhaca 92, Union, N.Y. 80 Maasachua911s 82, Rhode Island 70 Rutgers 92, Penn St. 70 Slippery Rock 105, Indiana, Pa. 103 
SOUTH Duke 79, Clemson 62 Florida Southern 68, Florida Tech 59 Georgia 62, Vandelbll 59 LSU 79, Florida 66 Mlasisslppl 93, Tenn98889 68 MIBSisslppl St. 94, Auburn 78 
N. Carolina St. 114, Maryland 111 Virgin.. Tech 50, South Carolina 41 Wake For98t 65, N-H~hlre 49 
MIDWEST Bail St. 63, Bowling Green 55 M issourl 64, Kansas St. 75 
INDIANA TOP 20 
How The Associated Pr988 Top 20 Indiana high school boys' basketball teams have fared In the 1991 state tournament and their next opponents: 
1. 
Gary A0088Yek (22·1) vs Gary Mann Fri. 

2. 
Bedford N. Lawrence (19-2) lost to Jennings Co. 50-45. 

3. 
Martinsville (21-2) lost to Bloomington South 67-58. 

4. 
lndpls Brebeul (20-1) beat No.t9 Ben Davis 6 t -57, OT; vs lndpla Northw981 Fri. 

5. 
Washington Catholic (2Q-O) vs Pike Central Frl 

6. 
Concord (18-2) beat Jlrnown 86-51; vs Ekhart Memorial Fri. 

7. 
Muncie Central (18-3) beat Cowan 83-57; vs No. 10 Muncie South Frl 


B. S.Bend Alley (20-2) beat SB LaSalle 102-64; vs SB Clay Fri. 
9. 
Warsaw (19-1) vs Aoch981er Fri. 

10. 
Muncie South (19-2) beat Muncie Burris 84­56; vs No. 7 M uncle Central Fri. 

11. 
Terre Haute South (17-3) vs TH North Fri. 


12. Manch981er (2Hl) beat Carrol (Alan) 60-48; vs Colurrbla Ctty Fri. 
13. 
Mlch.Ctty Eiaton (17-3) vs MC Marquette Fri. 

14. 
Jefleraonvllle (17-3) va Clarksville Providence Fri. 

15. 
E.Chlcago Central (16-4) va Hammond Noll Frl 

16. 
Evansville Boase (17-4) beat Ev.North 59-44; vs Ev.Harrison Frl 

17. 
Anderson Highland (18-3) beat Alexandria 75-57; vs Andarson Fri. 

18. 
LaPorte (18-3) beat MC Rogers 82-76; va N-Prairie Fri. 

19. 
lndpls Ben Davia (18-7) loa! to No.4 lndpls Brebeuf 81-57, OT. 

20. 
Fountain Central (21-0) beat Seeger 83-39; vs Attica Frl 


NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
AUantlc  Dlvl•lon  
w  L  Pet.  
Boston  41  15  .732  
Philadelphia  31  24  .564  
N-York  25  31  .446  
Washington  22  34  .393  
N-Jersey  18  37  .327  
Miami  16  39  .291  
Centr•l  Dlvlelon  
Chicago  40  14  .741  
Delrott  37  20  .649  
Milwaukee  35  21  .825  
Atlanta  31  25  .554  
Indiana  25  30  .455  
Cleveland  20  36  .357  
Charlotte  17  38  .309  

WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat Dlvl•lon 
w L Pet. San Antonio 35 17 .673 Utah 36 IB .667 Houston 32 23 .582 Dallas 21 33 .3B9 Orlando 19 36 .345 Minnesota 1B 37 .327 Denver 15 39 .278 
Pacific Dlvl•lon Portland 44 12 .786 LA Lakers 40 15 .727 Phoenix 36 19 .655 Golden State 29 26 .527 Seattle 26 28 .481 LA Clippers 18 36 .333 Sacramento 15 39 .278 
Wedneaday'a Game• Boston 116, Mlnn98ota 111 Dallas 108, Indiana 104 Philadelphia 107, Atlanta 103 Orlando 124, Phoenix 116 lttah 11 B, Golden State 103 Charlotte 96, Sacramento 90 
Thurad•y'a Game• DetroH at Miami, 7:30p.m. Milwaukee at N-Jersey, 7:30p.m. San Antonio at N-York, 7:30p.m. Portland at Atlanta, 8 p.m. LA Lakers at Denver, 9:30p.m. Houston at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
Frlday'a Gamea Cleveland at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Portland at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. San Antonio at Boston, 8 p.m. Lttah at Delro~. 8 p.m. Dallas at Chicago, 8:30p.m. Washington at Milwaukee, 9 p.m. Sacramento at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Charlotte at Seattle, 10 p.m. Orlando at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
NCAA BASEBALL 
SOUTH Alabama 9, Ala.-Birmlngharn 1 
GB 
g 112 16 19 221/2 24112 
4112 8 10 15 112 21 23112 
GB 
4112 15 17 112 18 112 21 
3112 7112 14 112 17 25 28 
Chari98ton Southern 2, Mount St. Mary's, Md. 0 Cttadel 8, Coli. ol Chari981on 7 Florida Tech 2, St. Thomas, Fla. 1 Ga. Southern 3, South Carolina 2 Merfllhls St. 15, AIII.-Little Rock 2 Mlaslaslppl 17, Union 2 MIBSissippl St. 13, Jackson St. 1 Mount Olive 2, Malhodist 0 North Florida 2, Flagler 0 Presbyterian 3, Frances Marlon 2 $.C.-Spartanburg 9, Central-Wesleyan 8 Southam Miss. 16, Alcorn St. 5 SteiBOn 16, Furman 0 Union, Ky. 8, Tusculum 4 Warner Southern 9, St. Mlchael'8 3 West Florida 7, Augustana, 111. 1 
SOUTHWEST 
E. Texas Baptist 3-2 Louisiana CoR. D-2 Louisiana Tech 10, Hardln-Sinvnons 9 St. Mary's, Texas 11-6, Cent. Iowa 1-0 Tarleton St. 7, Briar CIIH, lowa6 Texas Lutheran 12-3, Houston Baptist 3-0 
FAR WEST 
Arlzoila 13, N-Mexico St. 2 
Arizona St. 10, Aloe 0 

-
e ASK ABOUT SPECIAL COURTSIDE SEATSe 
$2.00 DISCOUNT ND/SMC 
STUDENTS/FACULTY/STAFF ON SALE JACC BOX OFFICE (9 AM -5 PM) 

BENGAL BOUTS RESULTS 
130 pound Qivlslon 

Brian "Midnight Stoker" Stok98 (Off-Campus) unan. Drew "Chops" Dougherty (Dllon) 
Timothy 'Wallin" Phelan (Zahm) apltt dec. Pat "The SAent Assassin" Owens (Grace) 
135 pound Qivlslon Mke "The Most Wanted' Jennings (011-Canllus) apUt dec. Mlck ·auag• Meyer (Off­Campus) Jell "The Disturber" Gerber (Dillon) ref. stops contest (I :14, 3rd round) Mark "Tuacaluaa• Tierney 
140 pound Q!ylslon 

Joseph •Jokln' Joe• Carrigan (Grace) apltt dec. John "AD-Man" Manlredy (Off-Campus) 
Derek "The Dangerous• Bartlett (Grace) splh dec. Pale ·Do ya wanna dance• Bottini (Off-Campus) 
145 pound ptyjsjon 

Eric "The Mosqutto• Mlitto (Stanford) unan. dec. Bobby "Bad Boy" Burke (Off-Campus) 
Matt ·Funa· Mularkey (OH-Canllus) unan. dec. David "Leatherface" Dauenhauer (Grace) 
150 poynd Q!ylslon Jody •The Attttude" Armetta (Fianner) ref. stops contest (:28, 1st round) Gerry •pop him and Drop him" Mlmlck (Fianner) Lou "The Slclallan Pavillion• Hall (Sorln). split dec. Michael "Kiss my" Butler (Fianner) 
155 poynd Q!yjslon Colin ·Southam Comfort" Mullaney (Grace) apltt dec. "Desert Storrrin'" Norman Conley (011-Canllus) 
160 pgynd Q!yls!gn 

John •Sleepy Boy" Sordl (Fianner) unan. dec. Brad "Hard Knocks" L98hnok (Cavanaugh) 
Chris ·s-Lou• Toner (CarroiQ unan. dec. John "Eight Balr Rapchlnskl (Grace) 
165 pgund Q!ylsjgn 

Tim "Expr98s" Trainor (Fianner) TKO (I :29, 3rd round) Ed ·Don1 Glmme No" Schmitt (Zahm) 
Kerry "The Garden Weasel" Wate (Grace) unan. dec. Jim •Preying Mantis" Hawkins (Cavanaugh) 
170 pgund Qlylslon Mark •Ugly Man" Manning (Fianner) ret. stops contest (1:19, tat round) Mile "The Beaar Trainor (Fianner) Scott "The Wild Irishman" Mulcahy (Off-Campus) unan. dec. Garth "The Delonator" Behrje (Off­Campus) 
185 pgynd ptyislon Thomas "The Crusher" Sullivan (Carroll) unan. dec. "Fightln'" Mke O'Neill (Fianner) 
NHL STANDINGS  
WALES CONFERENCE  
Patrick Dlv!alon  
w  L  T  Pta  GF  GA  Home  Away  Dlv  
NY Rangers 32  22  11  75  244  204  19-9-8  13-13-5  12-9-5  
Philadelphia 31  27  8  70  219  205  17-12-5  14-15-3  11-12-6  
Pittsburgh 32  28  4  68  276  247  21-11-1  11-17-3  15-12-1  
New Jersay 27  27  11  65  227  217  19-B-7  8-19-4  11-13-5  
Washington 28  32  5  81  208  226  16-11-3  12-21-2  15-12-3  
NY Islanders 21  35  9  51  188  239  12-18-8  9-19-3  9-15-4  
Adame Dlvlalon  
x-Boston 36  20  8  80  238  215  21-7-3  15-13-5  15-7-3  
x-Montreal 32  25  8  72  221  205  19-11-3  13-14-5  12-1Q-4  
Hartford 28  29  7  63  193  213  16-13-3  12-16-4  9-11-4  
Buffalo 23  25  16  62  221  221  11-11-10  12-14-6  7-ID-7  
Quebec 12  41  11  35  183  290  B-18-7  B-23-4  6-t 1-6  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Norrie Division  
w  L  T  Pta  GF  GA  Home  Aw•y  Dlv  
x-St. Louis 39  18  7  85  256  202  21-B-5  18-12-2  15-8-2  
x-Chlcago 38  21  6  82  215  170  21-7-3  17-14-3  15-7-3  
Detroit 28  31  8  64  234  250  23-11-0  5-2Q-8  12-12-3  
Mlnn98ota 21  32  12  54  205  221  13-14-6  B-18·6  7-13-4  
Toronto 18  40  7  43  195  270  12-20-2  B-2Q-5  7-16-2  
Smythe Dlvlalon  
x-Los Angeles 37  20  7  81  274  204  20-B-4  17-12-3  13-7-4  
Calgary 34  22  7  75  267  206  19-7-2  ts-ts-5  12-7-3  
Edmonton 30  29  4  64  219  212  18-11-2  12-18-2  ID-11-2  
Winnipeg 23  33  11  57  225  238  15-15-5  8-16-6  8-8-6  
Vancouver 23  36  7  53  202  255  14-14-4  9-22-3  B-18-1  
x-clinched playoff berth  
Wednead•y'a Game•  
Late Garn98 Not Included  

Delro~ 5, Montreal 3 Washington 4, N.Y. Rangers 4. tie Toronto 7, N-Jersey 3 Edmonton at Calgary, (n) Pittsburgh at Vancouver, (n) 
Thuraday'a Game a 

N.Y. 
Islanders at Boston, 7:35p.m. Buffalo at Quebec, 7:35p.m. Hartford at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 

N.Y. 
Rangers at St. Louis, 8:35p.m. Winnipeg at Loa Angel98, 10:35 p.m. 


Friday'• G•mee N-Jersey at Delrolt, 7:35 p.m. Pittsburgh at Calgary, 9:35p.m. M lnn98ota at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. Montreal at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. 
• 

. .. . . .... 
. . .···.· .·· < ..·· ·. ·:· •, . : .· . .. ·.·~·. :-: ;.,.;. 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN 
LAFORTUNE 
APPUCATION DEADLINE IS 
MARCH 1, 1991 
-~--------~~---~­
The Observer 

Thursday, February 28, 1991 page 17 
A tale of two coaches: going in opposite directions 
Daly popular pick for Olympics 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP)­He has proven to be a very Chuck Daly didn't know any­popular choice. body was watching as he -Patrick Ewing: "I think it walked his poodle, Koko, down was a very good decision to the gentle hill to the pond be­name Chuck. He has a good hind his house. rapport with his players. He 
The dog was blind and this understands them better than was about the only exercise she other coaches probably do. I'd would get. certainly look forward to play­
At the edge of the pond, Daly ing for him." lifted the pet and pointed her -Michael Jordan: "The man face into the prevailing breeze has coached the last two NBA off the pond. Later, he was champions. I've proven unable asked why. to beat him the last two years, 
"Oh, how wonderful that so maybe I should join him." must feel to her," Daly said. -Dominique Wilkins: "I 
America's Coach, it turns out, think he's a great coach, first of has a heart as big as an NBA all. Players like him. They re­ego. spect him. Back-to-hack titles 
And he might need it where seem to help. I think they he's going. Daly, who has picked the perfect guy for the guided the Detroit Pistons into job." the NBA Finals the past three -Joe Dumars: "I think they seasons -winning the last two realize he understands people -now has been given the task as well as basketball. It's a of restoring America's reputa­people business." tion in Olympic basketball. To understand how Daly 
Oh, he'll keep what he has came to achieve such lofty sta­begun referring to as his "day tus among the NBA elite, you job" with the Pistons. But in have to understand Daly's 1992, Daly will be the first U.S. roots. He's a small-town guy, coach ever to take NBA players and the values he gathered into competition in the Games while growing up in Kane, Pa., at Barcelona, Spain. have stayed with him. 

UNLV's Tarkanian may pack his bags for NBA 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Jerry kids. They don't deserve this. to get into that stuff. I'm plan­Tarkanian seems to be sending It's very unfortunate." ning on coming back here." mixed signals about his coach­The beleaguered Tarkanian, Tarkanian's wife, Lois, said ing future at UNLV. feuding with the NCAA for 19 she's urged her husband to 
In one report, Tarkanian said years, may be getting tired of "keep his options open." he's looking into coaching an inquiry after inquiry. And, if his unnamed NBA team. On team wins a second consecutive One source close to Wednesday, he slightly altered NCAA title, he just may decide Tarkanian who requested his stance tp,"I would be inter­it's time to get out on top. anonymity said various NBA ested in looking at NBA offers." "I've been offered the NBA. teams had indicated an interest 
While Tarkanian has often Right now, I'm looking into one this year, but "his response has hinted about going to the NBA, team," he was quoted as saying been that he intends to stay at the latest reports come on the in The New York Times. "I like · UNLV." The source declined to heels of yet another NCAA in­the college game, but I get so identify the teams. quiry into Tarkanian's basket­much pressure fighting the The most recent NCAA ball program. NCAA. I don't know how the matter was among 29 charges 
NBA could be any more pres­leveled at the UNLV program 
The NCAA is expected to de­sure. Maybe I'll write a book. last year. The university is cide this week whether four But freedom of speech is prob­expected to answer the 29 UNLV players violated regula­ably illegal in the NCAA. That charges by May 1. tions by not paying hotel phone would be a violation for UNLV." and room service charges dur­While Tarkanian's Runnin' 
McDonald's All­
ing recruiting visits. The school Rebels (26-0) have won 37 in a was notified by letter of inquiry row, the coach has had little that the NCAA legislative ser­time to enjoy the success. If it America team vices committee was looking isn't the NCAA bugging him, it's into the matter. The players re­reports that he's headed to the pickedportedly involved are Larry NBA. 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (API ­Johnson, George Ackles, Evric "I would be interested in Springfield's Best will be on theGray and Bobby Joyce. looking at any NBA otTers, but court in April when McDonald's"This is one more form of I'm not out looking for some­puts on its annual All-American 
harassment from the NCAA thing," Tarkanian said 

High School basketball game inagainst our program," Wednesday. ''I'm not even this city where basketball be­Tarkanian said. "These are nice thinking about it. I don't want 
gan. Travis Best, a 5-foot-11 point 
guard from Central High School in Springfield, was one of 20 prep players named to the team Wednesday. 
Averaging 30.2 points, 7.6 assists and 5.2 steals a game for Central, 20-0, Best is headed to Georgia Tech next fall. 1\vo weeks ago he scored 81 points in Central's 143-85 victory over cross-town rival Putnam Vocational High School. 
The 14th annual game will be played April 6 at the Springfield Civic Center. 
Also picked for the East team were Cory Alexander and Ben Davis, both of Oak Hill Academy in Mouth of Wilson, Va.; Keith LeGree of Statesboro (Ga.) High School, Don Williams of Garner (N.C.) High School, and Eric Brunson of Salem (Mass.) High· School. 
Other members are Donyell Marshall of Reading (Pa.) High School; James Forrest of Southside High School in Atlanta; 6-foot-1 0 David Vaughan of White's Creek (Tenn.) High School and 6-foot­10 Sharone Wright of Southwest High School in Macon, Ga. 
The West team includes Calvin Rayford of Washington High School in Milwaukee; Howard Nathan of Manual High School in Peoria, Ill.; Jimmy King of Plano East High School in Plano, Texas; Tom Kleinschmidt of Gordon Tech in Chicago; Jalen Rose of Southwestern High School in Detroit, Mich., and Chris Webber of Detroit Country Day School in Birmingham, Mich. 
Also on the West squad are Glenn Robinson of Roosevelt High School in Gary, Ind.; Alan Henderson of Brebeuf Prep in Indianapolis; 6-foot-11 
-

Cherokee Parks of Marina High School in Huntington Beach, Calif., and 6-foot-1 0 Juwan Howard of Chicago Vocational High School in Chicago. 
-

''0'.' lit,
T-,1~
Give to the United Way. 
" 

page 18 The Observer 
Thursday, February 28, 1991 

Pitino and Willard: friendly Kentucky rivals 

Ice skating is 
good for you 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Figure skating looks too graceful to be exercise, but sliding around the rink can give you almost as much of a workout as you'd get by jogging. 
"It is an aerobic exercise ... a 
very good one," said Dr. Hugh 
C. Graham, immediate past president of the U.S. Figure Skating Association, the sport's Olympic governing body. "It fits pretty well between jogging and fast walking." 
Aerobic exercise depends on at least 20 minutes of rhythmic, repeated movements of major muscle groups at a pace suffi­cient to make you breathe hard. And skating can get the major muscle groups of both your upper and lower body swinging, said Dr. Morton G. Rosenstein, chairman of the association's sports medicine committee. 
Naturally, better skaters get more out of the sport, said Rosenstein, a gynecologist in Fresno, Calif. Casual skaters depend more on their lower body and back, while competi­tive skaters add more arm movements as they develop and control the momentum of jumps and spins, he said. 
Skating is easy to learn, Graham said. "You just start straight away, and build up as your skating improves." 
There is the problem of keep­ing upright, of course. Beginning skaters have a ten­dency to lean the wrong way as they learn to keep their body weight centered over two thin strips of steel, Rosenstein said. 

LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP)-Rick 
Pitino may get some ribbing 
from his buddy Ralph Willard 
when the season ends. 
Willard, coach at Western 
Kentucky, and Pitino, who 
coaches Kentucky, have been 
friends for 22 years. They talk 
three or four times a week and 
play golf and tennis together as 
often as possible. 
"I whip him at golf and beat 
him in tennis," Pitino said, 
smiling. 
Told of Pitino's claims,_ Willard laughed. "What did he say? We have wars in golf and tennis. He's beaten me once in tennis. Once in 999 times. In golf, I beat him everytime we go on the course." 
There's no argument about their success as coaches. Willard has worked wonders at Western Kentucky in his first season, similar to Pitino's first Kentucky team a year ago. 
Pitino's 1989-90 team was 14-14 and fourth in the SEC at 10-8. Willard's Hilltoppers are 14-13 (8-6 in the Sun Belt) this season. 
"The parallels are amazing," Willard said. "During Rick's first year Kentucky had the worst loss in the school's his­tory (150-95 to Kansas) and we did, too, in losing to Georgia (124-65)." 
Pitino's first team had eight scholarship players while Willard has only seven on his roster. Pitino's tallest starter was 6-foot-7; Willard's 6-6. 
The Hilltoppers lost 10 of their first 14 games, and their preseason schedule was ranked the fifth most difficult in the nation. They were picked to fin­ish last in the Sun Belt. 
"I think he should be confer­ence coach of the year," Pitino said. "I think what he's done has been phenomenal. I knew he'd be very successful as a coach, but with the schedule and some of the injuries they've had, it's an amazing feat what he's done this year." 
Willard left his high school coaching job in 1985 to start a college coaching career. 
"I was happy with what I was doing in high school," said Willard, coach and athletic di­rector for 13 years at St. Dominic in Oyster Bay, N.Y. "It was a small catholic school with a lot of tradition and spirit about it. I also was involved in fund-raising for a gym and got caught up in that. 
"I had opportunities to leave, but I was content with that. I also had a young family and we were happy there." 
After leaving St. Dominic in 1985, he spent one season each as an assistant at Hofstra and Syrcause. He become one of Pitino's assistants with the New York Knicks in 1987, and after two seasons, followed Pitino to Kentucky. 
"I have no problem being Rick Pitino 's guy," said Willard, who played at Holy Cross in the 1960s. ''I'd say he's the best college coach in the the country in all areas of the game. He's the most innovative. He adapts 

and brings new concepts to the 
game." 

And while he has been in the 
shadow of Pitino, it helped him 
prepare for guiding his own 
program. 

"Rick gives a tremendous 
amount of responsibility to his 
assistants," said Willard. "If 
you're lucky enough to work for 
him, he involves you in all 
aspects. He gives his people re­
sponsibility and expects them 
to do the job and he rewards 
them for the effort they give." 
But Willard plans to be his own man. 
"I didn't want Western to be an adjunct. to Kentucky," he said. "We had to establish our own identity." 
The Hilltoppers, however, play a version of "Pitino-ball" from the 3-point line, where they set a Sun Belt mark this season with 620 attempts. They've made 228 for 36.5 per­cent. 
Although Willard doesn't have the courtside flair of Pitino, off the court they both have a sense of humor and en­joy "bustin' shoes," a phrase they use for having a good time. 
Willard, who grew up in Brooklyn, N.Y., plans to stay awhile in the relatively slow pace of Bowling Green, Ky. 
"The people have been great, unbelievably supportive and friendly," he said. ''I'm perfectly happy. Everything here is positive. And I didn't come here to half complete the job." 
Besides that, he has to get even with his buddy on the court next season -Kentucky beat Western Kentucky 84-70 in December. 
SENIORS 

Senior Service 
Dear Senior: 
I hope all is going well for you as you prepare for graduation 
and your life beyond N.D. In the whirlwind of this our last 
semester, I would like to encourage you to take some time to 
reach out to the community. In case you don't know where or 
how you could donate your time, I have just the suggestion for 
you! The Senior class will be sponsoring four dinners at the 
Dismas House. Dismas House is a transitional living facility for 
previous prison inmates which prepares them for eventual 
integration back into society. So far we have two dates for 
dinner: Friday March 1 and Thursday March 21. We need 
about four people to prepare each dinner, i.e. calling ahead to 
tell the house what supplies will be needed and what will be 
served, arriving at 4:30-5:00 to prepare for the 6:30 dinner, 
and eating with the staff and people (there's about 14 people 
including staff). Good news...the cleanup is taken care of by 
the residents, so you should be finished with dinner around 
7:30 at the latest. I really hope this interests you enough to call me (x3608) and donate your time. I look forward to hearing from you.
-
Good luck with all your preparations for next year and have a great remaining semester! 
I~ 

~~'0tnU 
Christy Anderson Senior Class Service Commissioner 
All-Night Basketball Tourney 
Four person teams with male, female, &coed divisions. Games played in Stepan Center. 
FRIDAY NIGHT, MARCH 1 9:00 PM • 9:00 AM 
Sign·up teams at Senior Class Office from 3·5 pm all this week. 
$4 fee per team. 
CASH prize for each 
division. 
Free pizza provided by Domino's. 
~------~-~~--~-----~ 
The Observer 

Thursday, February 28, 1991 page 19 
Cooperstown strikes it rich with, without Rose 
COOPEHSTOWN, N.Y. (AP)­The image may be tarnished, but the Pete Hose name is solid gold in this village. Gold -as in dollar bills, that is. 
Pete Hose is all over the place, even in the institution that has banned him. 
Stroll down Main Street and step up to the llome Plate, a memorabilia-crammed corner of T.J.'s Hestaurant, and you'll find an enlarged, autographed, framed photo of Rose and Johnny Bench. You can take it home for $295. It sits right next to another photo, of Rose and Nolan Ryan, with Major League Baseball's stamp of approval in the lower right-hand corner. But that one is not for sale, not just yet. Apparently, the price isn't right. 
For $195, you ean take home a small Pete Hose dish, with "Baseball's Living Legend" in­seribed below a likeness of the former Cincinnati Heds star. 
At the National Pastime Gallery, where the fine art of baseball is always on sale just a fHw doors down from thll Hall, for $245 you can purchase a color photo of Rose standing on first base after getting his 4,192nd hit in 1985, which broke Ty Cobb's all-time record. 
Or perhaps you'd like a re­production of the front page of The Cincinnati Enquirer the day after Rose got the big hit. "Pete Singles Past Ty Cobb" blares one headline. "Numbers Don't Tell Full Story" reads another. Look at the fine print and there is Peter Ueberroth, former commissioner of baseball, quoted: "Pete Rose is baseball." And former Dodger star Steve Garvey, saying: "He should bypass the Hall of Fame and go straight to the Smithsonian." 
Pete Rose isn't in the Smithsonian, and he's not going to be in the Hall of Fame any time soon because he was suspended from baseball for gambling and declared ineligi­ble for the Hall of Fame, where 206 bronze plaques honor the game's greatest stars. 
Men like Cobb, accused of be-
On tour from New York· The only national touring production. 
CALLIN ON ROCK 'N ROLL, COUNTRY /WESTERN, RHYTHM & BLUES, BROADWAY SHOWSTOPPERS AND EVERY STOP ALONG THE WAY! 
Andrew Lloyd Webber's International Skating Musical Spectacular 
" ... one of the most astonishing spectacles in the 
annals of the stage" -Time Magazine 
JOYCE ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER NOTRE DAME MARCH 22-23-24 Fri. 8 p.m. -Sat. 2 & 8 p.m. -Sun. 1 :30 & 7:00 p.m. Tickets: Lower Arena & Floor $30.00 Bleachers $15.00 
Tickets available at the Broadway Theatre League Box Office at the Morris Civic Auditorium Open 10 a.m. to 5p.m. Monday thru Friday 
PHONE 284-9190 
Group & Student Discounts-Bleachers Only Master Card & VISA Accepted 

A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
ing a hard racist in the days when the sport turned its back on blacks and who deliberately tried to injure other players. Huth, who at one point during his illustrious career was de­scribed by the media as having a bad stomach ache when in reality he was suffering from venereal disease. And Tris Speaker, who was quietly called into Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis's office in the 1920s to answer charges that he and Cobb had connived to fix a game late one season when they were American League managers. 
They were never banned from baseball. Pete Rose walked in the front door and was kicked out the back. And yet he remains an integral part of the Hall's museum and of the vendors who deal in memorabilia to the 400,000 baseball buffs who pass through Cooperstown every year. 
"You can't take somebody like Rose out of baseball, especially his contributions," said Dick 
Sliter, operations manager of 
T.J.'s. "If you were going to 
write a book, that would be a 
funny chapter to leave out. It 
wouldn't chronicle it very ac­
curately if you left it out." 
A Hall of Fame committee 
voted in early February to keep 
Hose off the ballot until he is 
reinstated. Not many have 
agreed with that decision. 
"We've had numerous letters and there have been some phone calls," said Howard Talbot Jr., treasurer of the Hall of Fame. "But we're still getting some letters and, generally speaking, the reaction is nega­tive to our way of thinking. They still feel that Pete Rose should be considered for elec­, tion by the baseball writers, ir­regardless of his being on the 
ineligible list for baseball." 
So Rose, the 15th individual 
to be permanently disqualified 
from baseball, remains in exile 
but on display just like Shoeless 
Joe Jackson, who was banned 
from baseball in the Black Sox 
conspiracy to dump the 19i9 
World Series. Spikes Jackson 
wore that year and one of his 

Happ
® 
~ All our love l• Mom, Dad, Cindy & Amy 

bats are on exhibit, not far from milestone bats and balls from Rose's career, and uni­forms and baseball caps he wore during his playing days with the RHds, Montreal Expos and Philadelphia Phillies. More than 20 items in all. 
Walk into the Hall of Fame's Great Moments Room and a huge photo of "Charlie Hustle" greets you, hanging right be­hind a lifesize wooden statue of Babe Ruth. 
The Hall of Fame sees noth­ing wrong with charging the public $6 (children $2.50) to view its collection, including the items of the most prolific performer it has ever condemned. 
"We will not remove any of his memorabilia," Talbot said. "There are two distinct areas in the building: there is the mu­seum where we tell the history of our national game, and this is where Pete Rose's material is on display. And it will remain on display because it is a part of the history of the game." 
Talbot said he regretted that the new guideline instituted by the Hall of Fame hadn't been made much earlier. 
"The only mistake we made is we waited too long to do this," Talbot said. "This ruling should have been put into effect 35 years ago or more. Fortunately, through the years we've never had anything of this magnitude to wrestle with. We're not looking only at Pete Rose. We're looking down thH road another 10, 15, 20 years, when somebody else might be banned for whatever reason. We don't feel they should be a candidate for election while they're banned." 
And just what do the 2,300 residents of this village think of the whole matter? As it turns out, only a few displayed much interest. 
****************************** 
* * 
* * 
~ IH Baseball ~ 
* * 
~ Grad/Fac/Staff Baseball ~ ~ IH Lacrosse ~ 
* * 
~ Floor Hockey ~ 
* * 
~ Deadline ~ 
* * 
~ Thursday, ~ a Feb.28th E * *
* * 
* *
* * ­
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
***** ************************ 

-~-~-------~----~-~----­
The Observer 

page 20 Thursday, February 28, 1991 
Spring training report: late shows, no shows 
(AP)-Rickey Henderson may be fast on the basepaths, but he's slow in getting to spring training. 
Henderson was the only no­show Wednesday when the Oakland Athletics began full­squad workouts at Scottsdale, Ariz. Henderson, who showed up late when he was with the New York Yankees, is unhappy with his contract. He is the sec­ond season of a four-year deal worth $12 million. 
''I'm not terribly surprised Rickey's not here because of an undercurrent of unhappiness about his contract," Oakland general manager Sandy Alderson said. 
When the deal was agreed to after the 1989 season, Henderson and Kirby Puckett were the only $3 million-a-year players in baseball. Henderson is now tied for 35th on the con­tract list. 
"We have a number of play­ers in camp who are very good· players. Maybe not MVPs, but who have performed well over the years," Alderson said. "Unfortunately, we have to live with the system. These types of dramatic changes in the mar­ketplace have occurred." 
At Tempe, Ariz, Ken Griffey Jr. was the lone no-show as the Seattle Mariners began full workouts, but it apparently had nothing to do with his contract talks. 
Griffey flew back to Seattle late Tuesday after a series of apparent break-ins at his home. 
The alarm at Griffey's house went off twice Tuesday and has sounded at least four or five times in the past few days, team spokesman Dave Aust said. 
On the field, Ore! Hershiser continued his rehabilitation when he threw without pain and Frank Viola also had a painless outing. 
Hershiser, recovering from reconstructive surgery on his right shoulder, threw 62 pitches in a 10-minute session. He had thrown 10 minutes of batting practice on Sunday. 
"I felt good," Hershiser said. "This outing was progress. compared to the last outing. I hope they all feel this good." 
Los Angeles Dodgers man­ager Tom Lasorda was upbeat. 
"Orel told me after he threw that he felt good," Lasorda said. "He seemed impressive and was throwing free and easy. He reported no pain and keeps getting stronger." 
Viola, who earlier in the week was diagnosed as having bone spurs in the elbow, said he be­lieves he can avoid surgery for now. 
"I think it was more psycho­logical than anything," Viola said. "Once I found out I can do anything to it, I can live with it. If last two days are any indica­tion, I'm not going to concern myself with it." 
'"The real test will come when he faces batters in a real game," New York Mets man­ager Bud Harrelson said. "We'll see how his velocity is and how he feels the day after. But, he looked and felt real good today." 
In other camp news on Wednesday: 
-New York Yankees center fielder Roberto Kelly and pitcher Pascual Perez were missing from New York Yankees camp. Kelly is in Panama and Perez is in the Dominican Republic with his annual visa problems. 
''I'm more disappointed than with Kelly because he fully knows he's a regular and that's different from Pascual," Yankees general manager Gene Michael said. "They're both wrong by not being here. They had the whole winter to get here and I don't like it." 
-Ken Howell, recovering from an injured right shoulder, threw 50 pitches and felt fine. "That's a great sign for us," Philadelphia Phillies manager Nick Leyva said. "Now that he's 
HAPPY 
BIRTHDAY 
MARK ROSS 
Raggedy Ann missed celebrating her favorite 
cowboy's 21st. Have a great semester in Londonl 
Love Amy 
is currently accepting applications for the paid position of 
-
Accent Copy Editor 
If interested, please submit a one-page personal statement to John O'Brien at The Observer by 5 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 28 or call John at ~39-5303. 

AP LaserPhoto 
How Sweet It Is 

L.A. Dodgers Darryl Strawberry poses under a marque at Dodgertown in Vero Beach Tuesday morning. Strawberry had just completed a news conference called prior to Wednesday's full squad workout. 
healed his arm, he has confi­dence that there's nothing wrong in there and he can go get 'em." 
-Pedro Guerrero, still in the Dominican Republic. was ab­sent on Wednesday. Others not in camp were left-handed pitcher Joe Magrane, who is in St. Louis to receive treatment for a sore elbow, and right­handed pitcher Stan Clarke, who is recovering from a bro­ken ankle he sustained in the off-season. 
-Toronto exercised the con­tract option for Dave Stieb. The left-bander was scheduled to make $1.7 million in 1991, but Toronto said it had renegoti­ated the terms of the 10-year deal, agreed to on March 8, 
1985 
G 
R A D 
u 
A T 
E 

Will somebody please clue me in? What is a DGSA? 
It's a what and a who. The DGSA is the DISTINGUISHED GRADUATE STUDENT AWARD. It will be presented annually by the Alumni Association and the Graduate School to the graduate student who has distinguished himself or herself through academic standing and service during his or 1\er .career at Notre Dame. 
Is this another obscure award for an obscure student? No, it's not. Because this is the first year of the award, 
our hope is to promote it as much as we can. But our promotions will do very little to bring the award out of obscurity without the support and input from those whom it was meant to honor-the graduate students. 
How can I nominate someone? 

It's easy. Stop by the Alumni Association in the Main Building during the daytime and pick up an application. If you want, you can even take two. Nominations from students are encouraged and appreciated. Who knows more about deserving grad students than other students? 
What's the deadline for nominations? 
February 28, 1991 
Who selects the winner? 

A committee of administrators, professors, and students collaborate to select the most deserving candidate. 
Why hasn't anybody told us about this DGSA before? 
This is the inaugural year of the annual award. Our hope is that everyone who reads this will share it with a friend who will share it with another friend and so on and so on... 
AWARD 

&loooo® !J.'jJ®IJU@ 
IJ®[OO)a­
!J~ V(j) fJ@xil®'j/o !]iJ[J!)(5[}u il®W@ ®OidJ @] !Ju®{j){j)J/ f1!JcXJ{}u@l§JvY 
/}!Jt§)!Jl]i]q 
!]iJ(§)!Jl]i]q @@J@JQ &?t 
dl®C5fk 


DISTINGUISHED 

D 
s 
T 
u 
D 
E 
N 
T 


------~-----------------­
Thursday, February 28, 1991 The Observer page 21 
McDonald happy to be with Baltimore 
SAHASOTA, Fla. (API -It figures to be a rnlaxing spring for Ben McDonald. who no longer must audition to be the Baltimore Orioles' starting pitcher on opening day. 
The suspense ended Wednesday, when manager Frank Robinson said McDonald would be on the mound for the Orioles' season opener against tht~ Chieago White Sox on April 8. 
"I feel pretty good about my­self right now." McDonald said, moments after learning of his opening day assignment. "That takes a lot of pressure off me. Anytime you know in advance, it relaxes you. Now I can take things at a slower pace and work toward being ready in April." 
McDonald. the first player selected in the June 1988 ama­tnur draft, was pressed into service as a mliever during the Orioles' pennant drive that September. He appeared in six games. 
Last spring, he was enjoying a fine training camp until he pulled a muscle near his rib cage. He did not pitch again un­til April 24 -in the minor leagues. He didn't pitch for the Orioles until July 3. 
"I had all sorts of little in­juries last spring," McDonald said. "One of the big reasons was that I was trying to im­press the coaching staff. I don't feel the need to do that now." 
McDonald established himself as the ace of the staff last year in his first start, on July 21. After six relief appearances, in which he compiled a 0. 93 ERA, he held the White to four hits and became the fourth Oriole to throw a shutout in his first big league start. 
McDonald finished the year with an 8-5 record and a 2.43 ERA. He allowed only 9.33 run-
ark Ross-May you always have the same gleam in your eye as you play lor Alumni Hall. Our best lor a great 2 I st celebration in London. 

ners per nine innings -best in the American League -and opponents hit just .205 against him. He held left-handed bat­ters to only 39 hits in 216 at bats, an AL-low .181 average. 
It is for that reason that McDonald is comfortable that the opening day start is his, even if he gets hit hard during spring training. 
"I don't think a whole lot will be determined by what happens here," he said. "Frank knows what I can do. Besides, I have enough confidence in myself to know that I won't bomb in spring training. I have too much pride for that." 
McDonald, an All-America at Louisiana State, joined the Orioles amid tremendous fan­fare. Although he was hailed as a star from the moment he signed his contract, the 6-foot, 7-inch right-hander was not thrust into the limelight until the organization was sure he was ready. 
"Give the front office a lot of credit," he said. "They brought me along slowly and didn't throw me right to the wolves. Even last year, they used me in the bullpen before giving me my first start. When I finally became a starter, I was ready for it." 


AP LaserPhoto 

Time to Get in Shape 
New York Mets pitcher Sid Fernandez carries his equipment bag as he arrives at the spring training facility in Port St. Lucie. 
Don Mattingly 'back' in the Bronx 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. This year, the question is: Can (AP) -For years, when Don Mattingly do anything at all? Mattingly arrived at spring "I've got to prove I can stay training, the question would be: healthy. That's number one. "What will he do next?" That's the biggest thing I have 
to prove," Mattingly said. "If I can do that, I think I'll be all right." 
Back problems limited Mattingly to 102 games last year, the lowest total of his seven full major league sea­sons. When he played, he did not resemble the Mattingly who won a batting crown with a .343 average in 1984, took league MVP honors in 1985 and banged out a club-record 238 hits the year after that. 
Mattingly's average last sea­son dipped to .256, ending his string of .300 seasons at six. The .256 average was 67 points below his career mark entering the year. Mattingly's five home runs and 42 RBis were his low­est totals for a full season. 


Sponsor~d hy i\11 \ltd­wcstmt.•mlx·r.-.:lllLI frit:m.b in p:lnnl."r...hip 
With lht' ~ational En· 
..lo" mt.•nt for till' An.-. 

"This year I've got a lot of things up in the air. People are saying what l can and can't do," Mattingly said. "I've got a lot of things to prove. The only way is out on the field." 
The criticism Mattingly hears most often is that he no longer can drive the ball. He did not homer after May 20. When Mattingly returned on Sept. 11 after missing a 47-game stretch, he batted .333 (17 -for­
51) with seven RBis from that point until the end of the sea­son. But 14 of his 17 hits were singles. 
Mattingly is not concerned. "I hit the ball in the seats some in batting practice late last sea­son. I know it's there." 
Mattingly said his success in September provided a confi­dence boost. "It just let me know I could play without pain," he said. "I didn't try to do too much. I just put the ball in play." 
Mattingly turns 30 in April and plans to make some ad­justments in an attempt to minimize back problems that have nagged him for years. He is following a program de­signed by Dr. Robert Watkins, a back specialist, that requires 40 minutes of exercises every other day. 
''I'm going to be steady with the back work no matter how I feel," Mattingly vowed. 
Mattingly has grown accus­tomed to the hours of attention his back requires. More difficult 
-

for him may be another adjustment -reducing his workload before games. 
Mattingly has long been known for his work ethic, his tireless effort in the batting cage and on the field. He took fewer swings during the offsea­son and plans to pace himself carefully during spring training and once the season begins. 
"(What he does) before the game has to change," Mattingly said. ''I've talked to guys and they say when you get older you've got to slow down. The body is only going to take so much." 
The Observer 

page 22 Thursday, February 28, 1991 
Club withdraws from Walker Cup SPORTS BRIEFS 
CHICAGO (AP) -A suburban golf club with no minority members has withdrawn as host of the 1993 Walker Cup because of the U.S. Golf Association's anti-discrimina­tion policy. 
The Chicago Golf Club in west suburban Wheaton, a founding member of the USGA, was se­lected as host in 1986 but with­drew voluntarily last week, said USGA Executive Director David Fay. 
The 99-year-old club was the first 18-hole course in the United States. 
Under USGA policy, clubs without minority members are barred from playing host to major championship tourna­ments. The club also has no female voting members. 
Officers at Chicago Golf Club referred questions on the with­drawal to club President Robert 
E. King, who was out of town and could not be reached for comment. 
The Walker Cup is a two-day tournament played in odd­numbered years, featuring an amateur U.S. team against a team of amateurs from England and Ireland. The tournament alternates between Europe and the United States. 
The USGA said in August it would not require clubs under contract, such as the Wheaton club, to change their policies if they wanted to host a tourna­ment. But subsequent discus­sions with the club focused on whether it would want to face public scrutiny stemming from the Walker Cup. 
The issue of minority mem­bership in private clubs gained publicity last August at the PGA Championship at Shoal Creek near Birmingham, Ala. 
The Annandale Golf Club in Pasadena, Calif. withdrew this week as host of the 1993 Women's Amateur. The St. Louis Country Club withdrew from the 1992 U.S. Women's 'Amateur last fall over the dis­crimination issue. 
Fay said he suspects the Chicago Gold Club eventually "will have women members and will have black members, but they don't want members viewed as 'Walker Cup women' or the 'Walker Cup black."' 

Another one bites the dust 
Georgia Tech's Kenny Anderson wants to try the NBA 
ATLANTA (AP) -Financial worries caused by an ailing family have about convinced sophomore Kenny Anderson that Thursday night's game will be his last at Georgia Tech. 
The star point guard said he is just about made up his mind to apply for early entry to the NBA draft. 
"If I'm between 1-and-5, I have to leave. I'm still going to wait until the season is over to decide. I'm not desperate for money, but I wasn't born with a silver spoon in my mouth," Anderson said. 
His mother, Joan Anderson, is suffering from ulcers and no longer works. His grandfather, James McLaughlin, is ill. 
"It:s just nerve-wracking," Anderson said. But he wasn't 
... speaking of his family -he was speaking about the pres­sure from sports agents. "There are one or two who keep calling me and it always seems to be late when I'm just knocked out," he said. "Coach (Bobby Cremins) and myself have handled it pretty well. He's part of what I call my Kenny Anderson Supporting Cast, because they're in it for my welfare." Under Georgia law, agents face a maximum $100,000 fine and one to five years in prison for contacting an athlete who has college eligibility remain­ing. At one time, an undergradu­ate had to apply for hardship exemption to get into the draft before his original class had graduated, but it is no longer necessary to prove a special fi­nancial need. 
Anderson has crammed into his two seasons more than many players have in four, in­cluding an ACC Rookie of the Year award, a trip to the Final Four, almost certain All­America recognition, 1,386
-points, 430 assists and 342 re­bounds. Tech plays fourth-ranked 

North Carolina at home Thursday night. Last year's home game with the Tar Heels was Anderson's lowest-scoring effort at Tech, 6 points, but he also had 17 assists. The Jackets won 102-75, their largest margin of victory ever in an Atlantic Coast Conference game. 
Anderson and Cremins have directed interested parties to Dick Gilbert, the head of a jeans company in New York and the man Anderson calls his "guardian." 
Anderson has spent the last three summers working for Gilbert, handling credit ac­counts for department stores. 
"I trust him and if he's wrong, well, then let me lose with that opinion," Anderson said. 
The prospect of a salary some NBA officials say could start at $2.5 million a year is hard to ignore, particularly for a 20­year-old who grew up without a father in the low-cost housing projects of New York. 
"It's been tough for my 
mother to have to support four kids," said Anderson, who has two sisters and a brother, all at least eight years older than him. "I feel I can meet a great need. These are the people who sacrificed to take care of me. I feel that my life would be at least halfway complete if I could take care of them." 

--~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~
.J~·'~-. .e~·mli&ULt99f . 
-N. Y ATTENTION STUDENTS LAST WEEK OF SIGNUPS 
Off-Campus Sign-ups: ···February 25-March 1 in North and South Dining Halls during lunch February 25-March 1 at LaFortune information desk. ... On-Campus Sign-ups: Now-March 1. Look for posters in your respective dorms. "Christmas in April1991" will take place in the St. Cashmir-Ford Street neighborhood. This project needs your support. Questions??? Please Call: Isabel Navarrete xl314 Lora Mangan x1314 Bob Scheilbel x1739 :'.. 
•The lnterhall Ice Hockey finals will be played today at 10:30 
p.m. in the JACC Arena. Dillon will meet Off-Campus for the third year in a row. 
•ND/SMC 
Sailing: will host at Spring Cleaning party Saturday, March 2 at 12:30 p.m. All members old and new are encouraged to come to the boathouse and help. When we are finished, we will be rewarded. 

•The 
ND/SMC Synchronized Swim Club competed in the 14th Annual Northwestern Big 10 Invitational on Feb. 23. The eight person team routine took first place. The team placed third overall. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball: Absolute final sign-ups will be held Tuesday, March 5 from 3-6 p.m. in the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune. Remember the $5.00 sign-up fee. This will be the last chance to sign-up. 


Love -Kathy, Tino, Eyeball, Master, Jack, Andrea, Fong & P. in Boots 
.. 
L ASING: 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4&5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
-WASHER & DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 

ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 232-8256 

Thursday, February 28, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Thursday 
12:05 p.m. Travel Videos at Noon Series: "Sea World," ETS Theatre, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Educational Media 
7:30 p.m. The Christian Conscience: Ethical Perspec­tive on War and Peace Lecture, "Peacemaking: Non-Vio­lence and the Catholic Tradition," Sister Elena Mal its, Saint Mary's College. Dooley Room, LaFortune. Spon­sored by Center for SoCial Concerns and Campus Ministry. 
8 p.m. Poetry reading by Irish poet, Paul Muldoon. Sta­pleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's. Sponsored by Saint Mary's Ireland Program, Student Academic Council, English Department and MINT. 
8 p.m. African Film Festival: "A World Apart," CSC. 
8 and 10:30 p.m. Film: "Spinal Tap," Cushing Hall of Engineering Auditorium. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Deli BBQ Chicken Quarters Smoked Thuringer And Zum Zum Potato Salad Grilled Pastrami and Swiss 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
fl'l-lt. Cl\C~ ot: f\ 1-\P..\J\t-J.t:R B£.\~G COC.I(E\) 6£1-\\ND \J\'{ ~£i\\) ~OC\JS£.0 1'1-'1 \1-\0JG\-{fS L\KE OOL'( 1>. LOI\\lt:D .38 CA-N. 
\1-\£. Df..MI: 1-\r-,D st.T ME \JP.' S\-1£ 
D\0\-lT WP..Ni 1'1\E i6 ':::Cl~£. \1-\t. Cf&.. 1\T ft...LL .1 Sl-It J\l'SI Wft..~ID 
i\. Pft...T5'( TO 1'\N -rnt. CRIMI:. ON ' I DIDNT L\K£. 114E Wfo-'( 11-\\S 
STOR'{ WP...S 
SI-\~P\t{G UP, 9;) 
I DEC.\D£.0 TO 
WR\1£ />.. NEW EMO\\-{G 'NID-I Ill'{ .45 ,A.\JThMAT\C A'S. CO·AU~~­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE FAR SIDE 
Giraffe tough guys 


45United -­(approvers of 20 Across) 
51 "Gil--" 54 Money in Peru 55 Celebration 56 Adjuvant 57 Famed 
chairmaker 58 Neighbor of 45 
Across 59 Action so Feed a furnace 61 Zero 
DOWN 

1 Forward; brazen 2 Busyas-­3 Diana from Detroit 4 Merited 5 Dolly from Tenn. 6 Athenian soldier's deity 7 Luxurious 25 One of the 36 Busy place 47 Earth's Sudanese since August inheritors
&Assesses; appraises 26 Crown protector 48 "--Shanter"
1990 
MAN, TH~ 1'\At'IBUII,IiER I ::!U6T AT£ DID NOT 
A6JREC: WITH 1'\E· 

38 Ltr. writer 49 Esprit de corps 
39 Poker holding 41 Left off 50 Rational 42 Fabric with a 
51 Not prudent 

crinkled finish 46Admiral 
52 Prevaricate Zumwalt Jr. 53 Summer drink 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 

j 
~ 
I 
I 
.... 
9 Extra forces in 20Across 10 Actress from Paris 11 Nigerian native 12 T.C.U. rival 13 Hurricane's center 21 Control 
piece 
GARYLARSON 
27 More perspicacious 28 A nephew of King Arthur 29 Unwilling 30 Frolic 31 Gelatine devices 32 Vessel used by water-skiers 35 Frees hostages 
SPELUNKER 
ACROSS 

1 The --of Avon 5 First-anniversary gift 10 Parris Island, e.g. 14 Kin of an English horn 15 Rebelled 16 The Black Knights 17 No so much 18 Takes a break 19 Womanizer 20 Operation since August 1990 23 Auto pioneer's monogram 24 Minstrel-show character 
28 General who wrote "On to Berlin" 
30 Simple melody 31 Expert 32 Agrippina, to 
Nero 33 Jet-set problem 34 Was in the red 35 Tyro's "learning 
matter" 36 Apple or pear 37 Choreographer 
Lubovitch JBWhales 39 Golfer 
Jacobsen 40Tarnish 42 Type of truck 43 Cynic 44 Kindled 


SPINAL TAP 
A ROCKUMENTARY 
S(iTOiti>fiY 


STUDENT UNION BOAR 
TONIGJIT 
8 AND 10:30 PM ADMISSION: $2 CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
SportsIl­page 24 Thursday, February 28, 1991 ' 
Women ready for MCC foes 
Embark on road trip in search of first-ever NCAA bid 
By RENE FERRAN involved in the race to see who season. Performances against Sports Writer the top six teams (in the MCC) TCU and Saint Louis displayed will be," McGraw said. "The her scoring abilities, and yet 
With only two games left in game with us will probably de­the challenges of fitting into her the regular season, the 22nd­cide that for both of them, so new role coming off the bench ranked Notre Dame women's they're going to come out fired have limited her to only a 3.2 basketball team is going about up." scoring average this season. gaining an NCAA Tournament One key to Notre Dame's suc­"Sherri is a great shooter bid the old-fashioned way: cess this season has been the against the zone, but I think earning it. progress made by freshmen her expectations were that she 
The Irish (20-5, 14-0) finish Kristin Knapp, Sherri Orlosky, would be scoring a lot of the season with a road swing Andrea Alexander and Kara points," McGraw said. "She through Ohio this weekend. Leary. These four have not had needs to take the time she's Tonight, they face Dayton (14-the luxury of sitting on the getting in the games and make 12, 9-6) and Saturday after­bench and learning for a sea­the best of it." noon, Notre Dame travels to son due to the loss of four "I think I've had a successful Cincinnati to meet Xavier (14-players-including fellow season, but it could have been 12, 7-8). freshman Katura Jones-in better," Orlosky said. "I set 
"We're determined to play January. Each has responded higher expectations which I well," Irish coach Muffet well to the challenge of adjust­didn't meet personally, but in McGraw said. "We want to get ing to college play and con­upcoming games, I'll keep 
our game back to peak form. I tributing to the Irish attack. working hard and working to thought it was pretty close in "Being a freshman, you're help the team by playing my the Old Dominion game, and trying to learn the ropes," role." that's the way we're approach­Knapp said. "But when we lost Alexander moved into the ing the rest of the season, try­our four players, that was starting lineup in January after ing to prepare for the. NCAAs." when I realized that I had to be the ineligibilities took affect. 
However, Notre Dame must more assertive and do the She is not looked upon to score get by this weekend first, and things that (they) were doing but to play defense and re­while the Irish posted easy vic­because we as a group had to bound, something she has 
tories over Dayton (79-49) and make up for their loss." taken to well. 
Xavier (74-50) earlier this sea­Knapp, a 6-3 forward who is "Andrea isn't afraid to get son, these two games will not averaging 7.2 points and 3.6 physical and mix it up inside. be cakewalks. rebounds per contest, is mak­She has improved dramatically 
Both the Flyers and the ing great strides in adjusting to defensively," McGraw said. Musketeers are battling for po­the more physical play of the "Her only adjustment is a con­sition going into next week's college game. Already possess­fidence thing where she has to Midwestern Collegiate ing a potent jump shot to about believe in herself." Conference tournament. Dayton 18 feet, Knapp believes she is Finally, Leary is a walk-on is tied for second in the league, developing from being strictly a who spurned several offers and if it should beat the Irish, finesse player, an assessment from other schools to come to would get a first-round bye in McGraw agrees with. Notre Dame. She has played the tourney. Xavier, meanwhile, "She came in as someone only 98 minutes all season, not have done that at other And all of them are excited is in seventh place, and only who didn't like contact very which raises the question, why schools, even though I would about the possibility of making the top six teams in the MCC much, and she is progressing in choose Notre Dame over other have been playing more," Leary the NCAA Tournament in their make the tournament next that area in terms of going colleges where she could play said. ''I'm a little disappointed, first year. week. inside and rebounding," more? but I've progressed a lot from As Knapp said, "I feel very 
"The problem with the next McGraw said. ''I'm learning a lot, especially the first day of practice, so I confident that we'll make the two games is that Dayton and Orlosky, meanwhile, has during practice. I'm getting can't be that disappointed with NCAA Tournament. There's no Xavier are both still very much shown flashes of brilliance this better all the time, and I might my improvement." doubt in my mind." 
Bengal Bouts reach finals 
Favorites advance, fighter disqualified in controversy 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR directors have several plans. class, as Joe Carrigan won a Sports Writer One of the possible routes in­controversial split decision over cludes the formation of a new two-time champion John Bengal Bouts became contro­weight class. At this class, Manfredy. When announced, versial Wednesday night, as the Trainor would fight Mulcahy the judges' vote elicited boos 170-pound semifinals were for the title, while Manning from the crowd. Indeed, it ap­marred by the disqualification would be granted the 170-peared that the undersized of defending champion Mike pound championship. Manfredy, at 130 pounds, con­Trainor. This type of system is not trolled the third round of the 
With 11 seconds left in the without precedent. Dominick fight. During the first two first round of his fight with "Nappy" Napolitano, the le­rounds, however, Manfredy did Mark Manning, Trainor, a gendary founder of the Bengal not land punches consistently, Bengals champion the past two Bouts, wou:ld often form new while Carrigan regularly years, cornered Manning and weight classes in order to give caught Manfredy with his left hit him with a hook which sent a greater number of boxers jab. the senior to one knee. Trainor opportunities to win titles. Carrigan will meet Derek then struck Manning with an­Tim Trainor, Mike's twin Bartlett in the 140-pound final. other hook, which knocked him brother, also knocked his op­Bartlett scored a split decision to the canvas. ponent down in Wednesday's victory over Peter Bottini in his 
Trainor, in hitting Manning action. Trainor's 165-pound semifinal bout. after he had been ruled down, bout with Ed Schmitt was The 150-pound weight class was guilty of a harm foul. After stopped after •Schmitt was promises an exciting champi­a short deliberation, Trainor dropped by a Trainor hook with onship fight, as defending was disqualified and Manning one second left in the third champion Jody Armetta and awarded the victory. round. Chicago transfer student Lou 
Referee Terry Johnson made Trainor will face two-time Hall face off. the call to disqualify Trainor. returning champion Kerry Armetta floored his opponent, 
"If a boxer can't continue as a Wate in the 165-pound final. Gerry Mimick, with only 28 result of a foul, the boxer who Wate won a unanimous deci­seconds elapsed in the bout. can't continue wins the bout," sion over last year's 162 pound Mimick was unsteady after the said Johnson. · champion, Jim Hawkins, in blow, and Johnson stopped the 
Despite Manning's apparent order to advance to the cham­fight. advancement into the Bengals' pionship bout. In contrast, Hall won a diffi­championship, he will not be Wate defeated Hawkins, who cult three-round split decision able to fight in Friday's final, as had a significant reach advan­over Michael Butler. This in­boxers stopped by blows to the tage, with body shots and an tense fight was marked by a head may not compete for at effective left hook. stare-down between the two 
lhi~Mc:.Gartl least 30 days. "I was worried about the fighters at the conclusion of John •AU-Man" Manfredy (dari< shorts), two-time champion, and »Joltin' Scott Mulcahy won the other reach," said Wate, "but I didn't round two. The remainder of Joe" Carrigan (light shorts), shown battling in the 140-pound match, 170-pound semifinal with a really know what I was doing the fight was an emotional tug­fought during the second night of the 61 st-annual Bengal Bouts. unanimous decision over Garth coming in." of-war, as the fighters ex­Carrigan won the split decision to upset the favored Manfredy. Carrigan Behrje. To avoid the problem of The biggest upset of the changed violent flurries repeat­and others now advance to the finals, which begin Friday at 8 p.m. a walkover final, tournament evening came in the 140-pound edly. 








