... ' 

.-." 
. / -: 
·' fli
' :.J l 
'J ., '-1 #­
. ,J­
s.s· 

~.~~~t
.Q.S· 
. t!t--­
1&42-1992 

Samt Mary's College
SfSQUoCENTENNIAL 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1991
VOL. XXIV NO. 55 .. ,.., THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 




Business school makes financial adjustments 
-. 
Murphy will teach the increased Principles By MONICA YANT of Marketing. Both classes will have and SANDY WIEGAND approximately 140 students each. News Writers "The larger classes do not necessarily 
mean they're worse," Keane said. "It may Eliminating three advanced-level very well mean they're better with the 
electives and increasing class sizes in quality of instruction" students will receive introductory-level courses has allowed the from the department chairmen. College of Business Administration to make In all the departments, however, class necessary financial adjustments for the offerings and sizes will be affected by the spring semester. budget situation. 
The college's budget analysis was Accounting handled differently by each department, The accounting department will be according to Dean John Keane. offering nine fewer sections this spring 
Bookke9ping and internal shifts in funding than last year, according to Kevin 
were the primary forms of adjustment. Misiewicz, assistant chairman. Still, the Still, 25 percent of the adjustment was department will attempt to accommodate completed through alterations to course the 400 majors and additional non-majors 
offerings, he said. by offering slightly larger sections. 
Of 150 sections offered, the college The department was able to add one decided to drop three electives, Keane said. section of Advanced Financial Accounting At the same time, one new advanced-level in the midst of cuts, he said. 
elective was added to offset the loss. While the department has decreased 
The effect of the course elimination will offerings, Misiewicz said that increasing be "primarily miniscule" to the the remaining sections will allow the same approximately 1,500 students in the number of students to be accommodated. college, according to Keane. This spring the class size in Principles of 
The Observer/Greg Massa 
In addition, the college will offer two Accounting I will increase to 60 students in Mestrovic's masterpiece larger sections in the finance and four sections, up from approximately 40 marketing departments to be taught by the students in six sections last spring, This cast bronze statue is part of a memorial honoring Ivan Mestrovic, a sculptor­department chairmen. according to Misiewicz. in-residence at Notre Dame from 1955-1962. Mestrovic sculpted the statues 
Barry Keating will teach the larger see BUSINESS I page 4 designed by Frederick Beckman, professor emeritus of art, and donated by Eli Managerial Economics course, and Patrick and Helen Sturgis. 
English department finanacial woes compounded by budget situation 
By MEREDITH MCCUL· "The problem was already gradual increase that has taken required to teach a full load,
• Sociology I page 3
LOUGH there," Buttigieg continued. place over the past five years, four courses a year. During a The $425,000 budget error will • Core I page 5 he said. semester each professor
Assistant News Editor 
affect the department by • Economics/ page 5 This increase in majors cou­teaches from 60 to 70 students, "interrupt(ing) the progress we pled with the barrage of stu­he said. 
The recent budget situation in Wfitle Butftgteg called tfie 
were making" as well as dents trying to fulfill their Uni­This is a harsh situation con­
the College of Arts and Letters added requirement "good pol-. 
"rais(ing) questions about the versity requirement has re­sidering that the nature of the
has compounded the English icy" for a university with a lib­
University's willingness to invest sulted in large classes and lim­major is not conducive to large
department's already existing eral arts focus, he said, "there
in the quality of Arts and ited selection, according to But­classes. Since critical aspects of
problems of limited course of­were no provisions made to give
ferings and large enrollments, Letters," he said. tigieg. English courses include writing
the English department an
Over the past five years, the On average, 60 to 65 English and discussing, "English as a
according to Joseph Buttigjos­increased staff." 
and John Robinson, department demand for English courses has "The University expects by courses are offered each discipline cannot be taught in chairman and associate chair­increased at a rapid rate, semester, some cross-listed. He large numbers," said Buttigieg.
some miracle we can teach the 
man. Buttigieg said. explained that the English de­The department has been
same courses with the same re­
"We (the English department) He attributes this increase partment does not have the able to gradually increase its
sources," he added. 
have been fighting this battle both to the rise in the number funds nor the faculty to create number of faculty by four or
Approximately 450 students
of English majors and to the new courses. five professors, but Buttigieg
for five years," said Robinson. have declared English as a first 
"We warned the Administration Administration's decision to in­Already each of the 38 said that it "didn't take care of
major, according to Buttigieg.
this was coming." clude a literature course as a English professors, including
This number illustrates the 
see ENGLISH I page 6 
University requirement. department chairpersons, are 

IUSB student shot outside of Commons 
Observer Staff Report the victim had left The Com­mons to eat pizza in his car. His 
An Indiana University-South father said the student was Bend (IUSB) student was shot approached by the suspects, outside The Commons, 826 N. who tried to rob him. Eddy St., early this morning. A Keenan Hall resident who 
The 23 year-old male victim wished to remain anonymous was shot in the legs at approx­said that when he found the imately 12 a.m. and transpor­victim he appeared to be ted to St. Joseph Medical Cen­vomiting. Upon further ter. He received at least three inspection the witness bullet wounds to the legs, ac­discovered the victim had been cording to his father, who spoke shot in the legs. to The Observer from St. Joseph Medical Center. The victim appeared to go 
It appears that robbery was a into shock and then blacked­motive in the shooting, accord­out, according to the witness. ing to Chuck Hurley, assistant The Keenan resident said he director of Notre Dame Secu­and his companions helped the rity. The victim's empty wallet victim lay back onto the hood of was found next to him after the a car until help arrived. shooting, according to his fa­The victim is a student at ther. IUSB after spending last year at 
The alleged suspects are two Holy Cross College, according to black males, according to the the his father. He is a resident
The night talks back 
victim's father. Age and further of South Bend. Members of the ND/SMC community participated in a "Take Back the Night• walk from Saint Mary's to description were unavailable, Further information was NotrA Dame Thursday night. Despite the rain, organizers said the demonstration was a success. Almost he said. unavailable at press time. 75 walkers marched from the le Mans courtyard to the grotto. (See story, page 3.) The incident occurred after 




page.2 ..• 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Things that care packages are made of 
By now, all of our------­
freshmen have experi­enced that unique phenomenon known as care packages-little boxes of goodies from home. The one I got last night had Reese's Pieces, dryer sheets, and Paul Pearson brownies (which smelled Asst. News like dryer sheets, but were Editor still delicious. Thanks, ------­Mom and Dad.) 
Well, for all you parents reading this, here are the top ten things ND~MC parents should be sending to their kids in care packages. (If your Mom and Dad don't have a subscription to The Observer, clip this column and send it to them.) 
10. Chicken Soup. Pretty soon, it will be winter, which means head colds, runny roses, and the flu. As any Mom or Grandma (including my own) can tell you, this dish can cure anything short of malaria (and you can carry an open cup of it in the halls without being rmed). 
9. Credit Cards. As many of the seniors' parents can tell you, sending an American Express card once is a lot easier than putting up with weekly "Hi, folks. Please send money," requests. And, if the kid gets out of line, you can always report the card as stolen. 
8. Aspirin. College students have a strange habit of waking up on Saturday and Sunday mornings with some brutal headaches of unknown origin (wink, wink). 
7. Postage Stamps. If you have been wondering why it's been two months since Johnny or Mary has written home, it might be because stamps have gotten so expensive. Se~ding them stamps will take away that excuse. (If they tell you the reason they don't write is because they're too busy studying, don't believe them fo'r a second, unless they're engineers, of course ...) 
6. Lysol. Things accumulate fast in a dormitory room (especially the ones with four or even six students). Even the neatest neatnik will end up causing a most foul mess every once in a while. 
5. Pepto Bismol. Dining hall food six or seven days a week. 'Nuff said. (For those of you who have visited during a home football weekend, NO, we don't eat like that all the time.) 
4. Cable TV. Despite our blockbuster contract with NBC (the Notre Dame Broad­casting Network), your kids have missed three Fighting Irish games because they didn't have ESPN in their dorms. 
3. Pizza Coupons. When my folks found out how I lived on Domino's Pizza my freshman year, they sent tons of coupons, which were honest-to-God lifesavers sometimes. Also, see number 5 above. 
2. Condoms. I hate to burst some of my fellow columnists' bubbles, but the likelihood of condoms in the Infirmary is equal to that of snow at this year's Orange Bowl. Like it or not, sex is a fact of ND/SMC life, and should be treated as such. 
1. Most important of all, SEND TIIEM YOUR LOVE! When the chips are down, knowing that your family back home is behind you all the way can get you through anything. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today' Staff  
Production  Graphics  
Peggy Crooks  Brendan Regan  
Bryan Nowicki  
News  Accent  
Frank Rivera  Shonda Wilson  
Steve Zavestoski  Gerrie Hamilton  
Sports  Christina Oritz  
Rene Ferran  Jeanne Shin  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exa>pl during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a merr.ber of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rese.ved. 
Fridayl November.~5,1991 , 

Pr96SUf9 
,,;,~l f:;Sj i)
H L m 0 ~ ~ ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via As8«ist11d Press 
' '. ·: : : : .. : :: 
. . .. . : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Japan snubbed by Jackson 
• TOKYO-They're footing the bill, but Sony officials in Japan weren't getting a chance today to watch the debut of Michael Jackson's new music video. Jackson's 11­minute "Black or White" video, from his upcoming "Dangerous" album, is premiering on television in the United States and in 26 other countries, but not in Japan. "We haven't even received a master tape," said Naohiro Kondo, an official at Epic-Sony Records, Jackson's label in Japan. Sony renegotiated Jackson's contract for a reported $50 million last spring and some analysts suggested the amount overestimated Jackson's continued potentioal. 
Croats add to Swiss unemployed 
• BERN, Switzerland -Switzerland's unemployment rate rose to 1.5 percent in October, the highest level since World War II. In comparison, the U.S. unemployment rate for last month was 6.8 percent. September's Swiss rate was 1. 3 percent. Switzerland had nearly 41,000 registered jobless at the end of last month. About 45 percent were foreigners. Administration and office workers constituted the largest group of unemployed. Adding to the unemployment rolls are seasonal Croatian workers who Switzerland has allowed to stay because of fighting in Yugoslavia, the office's deputy director Volker Kind said. 
OF INTEREST 
•Photographer Steve Moriarty will tell of the ex­periences of the people of El Salvador from ten years of a war funded by U.S. dollars on Saturday, Nov. 16, at 2 p.m. in the Snite Museum. The event is sponsored by Pax Christi and the South Bend Pledge of Resistance. 
liThe Badin Aerobathon workouts at Theodore's will start every hour on the hour on Sunday, Nov. 17 from 10 
a.m. through 5 p.m. Tickets will be available at the door for $3.50. Proceeds will benefit South Bend Women's Care Center. 
•The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Ski Team will be 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/November 14 _ 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 226,475,400 219.22 
.15 S&P COMPOSITE 397.15 .26 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,063.51 it 1.79 
PRECIOUS METALS 
$ 1.60 to $355.70/oz. 
SILVER.oft 6.8¢ to $3.98/oz. 

NATIONAL 
;.
Kinison taping sitcom .. 
• NEWARK, N.J. -Sam Kinison, the self-proclaimed "rock 'n' roll comedian," was taping only the seventh episode of his first TV series but it already was having a dramatic effect on his lifestyle. "The wild life is on hiatus," Kinison said in a telephone interview from the Los Angeles set of "Charlie Hoover," a replacement series on Fox Broadcasting Co. Kinison, who once polished ofT a few bottles of champagne a day, is down to a glass or two 
on the weekend -never when he's working, or "I can feel it the next day," he said. 
CAMPUS 
Member of ND/SMC community dies 
• NOTRE DAME, Ind. -Mary Anna Whilma Grillot Manier of Versailles and Greenville, Ohio, died Nov. 7, 1991. A number of relatives of Manier graduated from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's over the past three decades. Edward, the son of Manier and her husband Francis Manier (ND 1953), has been a member of Notre Dame's philosophy department since 1959. Edward sent three sons, Michael ('78), John ('86), and Dan ('87), and one daughter, Maureen ('81), to the University. Two other sons, Jeremy and Ted, plan to graduate in 1992. The elder Maniers' daughter, Joy (Saint Mary's 1959), married John Marchal (ND '55 and '58). The Marchal's sent a son, Vernon ('85), and a daughter, Mary ('88), to Notre Dame. Another son, John, is currently a junior at Notre Dame. 
showing Warren Miller's "Born to Ski" movie on Tuesday, Nov. 19, at 7 p.m. at O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's. Tickets are on sale in LaFortune and the O'Laughlin Box Office for $6.50. 
•The Brothers of Talze religious community will otTer programs at Saint Mary's College Saturday and Sunday. Saturday's service will involve scripture, candlelight and song at 7 p.m. in the Regina Chapel. On Sunday an informational meeting will be held at 1:30 p.m. in the Regina Chapel discussing "A Pilgrimage of Trust on Earth," an international gathering of young adults sched­uled for May 1992. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1777: The Continental Congress approved the Articles of Confederation, a precursor to the Constitution of the United States. 

• 
In 1940: The first 75,000 men were called to armed forces duty under peacetime conscription. 

• 
In 1982: Funeral services were held in Moscow's Red Square for the late Soviet President leonid I. Brezhnev. 

• 
In 1984: Baby Fae, the month-old infant who had received a baboon's heart to replace her own congenitally deformed one, died at a Calijornia medical center almost three weeks after the transplant. 



... ' 


'Glitch' delays sociology plans 
Hesburgh: world occupants 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 
The budget "glitch" and ensu­ing temporary hiring freeze in the College of Arts and Letters has delayed expansion plans in the sociology department, said Samuel Valenzuela, chairman. 
"A famous sociologist de­scribed a situation similar to the hiring freeze on our de­partment as being in a tunnel with three lanes of traffic," said Valenzuela. "You are sitting in your car that is running fine, but the other two lanes have cars that are passing you by while you are unable to move." 
According to Valenzuela, the budget problems have delayed the replacement of two faculty members that left last year. Now that the temporary hiring freeze has been lifted, the search for new faculty will re­sume, he added. 
The sociology department 
currently employs 16 profes­sors, at least 12 of which carry only a partial load, he said. Adjunct professors also aid in the load of courses and "are teaching very successfully," he said. 
Valenzuela said that the soci­ology department would like to add two more professors to the department, but filling the va­cancies from last year is the first priority. "The question presently on the minds of the department is whether or not the two positions we hoped to add are still available," said Valenzuela. 
This spring the department will offer approximately 26 un­dergraduate classes. The most heavily populated classes are the freshman introductory courses, as well the two sec­tions of the Marriage and Family class, he said. 
"We like to keep our class sizes at 30 or under. In the case of Marriage and Family, the in­terest is there to provide at 

destroying earth's resources 
least one more section in addi­tion to the two in existence," he said. "The Marriage and Family class size for each section is now at 60 and for the spring semester is closed." 
Approximately 2,000 students are served each year by the so­ciology department, only 80 of which are majors. The number of majors is up from about 70 last spring, he said. 
"We're trying to produce the best program that we can with the money we have, but we do need more resources," said Valenzuela. "The freeze has come at a bad time ... the de­partment was within reach of a reasonable, well-balanced set of offerings with class sizes that are not humungous." 
However, the budget prob­lem has put this goal of being well-balanced on hold, he said. 
By ERIN KELLEHER and 
MARA DIVIS 
News Writers 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students marched in the "Take Back the Night" demonstration last night, in a symbolic effort to increase awareness of vio­lence on the two campuses, ac­cording to Catherine Sheehy, an organizer of the event. 
The group of 75 walkers started at Saint Mary's LeMans courtyard and walked along Saint Mary's Road to the Grotto, where they held a reflection service. The group then walked to O'Shaughnessy Hall, where they again gathered and sang songs geared towards women's rights, respect and peace. 
"It is an outrage that stu­dents, namely women, do not feel safe walking around cam­pus at night," said Sheehy, of the Notre Dame Alliance for Justice and Peace. 
Marchers offered petitions for the security of women worldwide at the reflection. Prayers were submitted for "all who don't feel safe," for "hope for women to speak out against violent crimes," and "for men who feel threatened by women taking action, that they may grow to appreciate this new strength and appreciate them as human beings." 
Teresa Lynch of the Women's Alliance of Saint Mary's ex­plained that the organizers wanted to get students together to support each other. 
"It was a march to literally and symbolically reclaim places on campus because it is not a safe campus," she said. 
She added that they wanted to send _a message about the vi­olence on campus. "If we get the message out, more people will look out for each other," Lynch said. "We don't like it (the lack of sense of security). We want it to stop." 
"It was a real chance for this community to stand for some­thing." she said, "It really demonstrated that the students can stand together." 
In addition to the ND/SMe community, students from Val­paraiso University came to walk. They came looking for ideas for a "take back the night" rally they plan to hold in the spring, said Beth Hartung, a Valparaiso student. 
Leaders from all campus groups praised the unity of the students of the two campuses. 
see NIGHT I page 6 
1-2  Instructor: Jen Yost  
2-3  Instructor: Aimee Butler  
3-4  Instructor: Margaret Tortorella  

Starring: Amy Listerman (Siegfried Pres.) Mike Hum (Planner Pres.) 
4-5 Instructor: Kathy Massa Starring: Hugh McGowan (Alumni Pres.) Volker Blankenstein (Alumni V.P.) 
of water pollution is the case 
of Lake Erie, he said. Many 
years of dumping in the lake 
has resulted in an enormous 
build-up of eve chemicals. 
At one point, it was possible 
to light the lake on fire and to 
have it burn for a short period 
of time. Hesburgh said that 
the frightening aspect of the 
tragedy of Lake Erie is that 
the great lakes constitute 25 
percent of the world's fresh 
water supply. 
The burning of the rain 
forests is the major culprit in 
the destruction of the Earth's 
land, Hesburgh said. The rain 
forests are burning at a rate 
of an area the size of a 
football field a second. After 
the areas have been cleared 
of trees, the soil beneath is 
devoid of any nourishment for 
crops. 
The destruction of our rain 
forests is also alarmingly re­
ducing the amount of Carbon 
Dioxide in our environment, 
Hesburgh added. 
He cited some alarming statistics to emphasize the carelessness of Americans. For example, as five percent of the world's population, Americans are responsible for the use of 26 percent of the world's oil, the production of 290 million tons of toxic waste a year and the pollution of 99 percent of the world's water. Also, he added, a child born in America will use twenty times more energy than one born in India. 
He stressed the interdepen­dence of all inhabitants of the earth, thus urging humans to consider the repercussions of their actions, especially pollu­tion. 
We must "think globally but act locally," because we cannot solve the problems of the entire world but can make a difference in our own daily actions, he said. He added that, "As Americans, we can develop a consciousness of our actions that affect the environment, and attempt to do something to help the present situation." 
In more of a group sense, humans can "start harnessing science and medicine for the good of mankind," he said. Hesburgh's scientific proposal focused on energy, a source that mankind will always need. 
He urged the ~bandonment of fossil fuels and the harnessing of solar energy. Solar energy, he said, is a free and non-pollutant alternative. 
Hesburgh concluded with the message that "it is your world and your generation and you are going to have to face the problems." 




BADIN AEROBATHON 
. SON. NOV.17 $3.50 at door, unlimited aerobics @Theodore's Featuring:
10-11 Instructor: Margaret Tortorella Starring: Molly O'Neill (Lewis Pres.) 
11-12 Instructor: Kathy Massa 
Starring: Patricia Stanford (P.E. Pres.) Greg Butrus (Stanford Pres.) Charlie James (HPC CoChair.) 
12-1 Instructor: Maggie Dougherty 
By SARAH DORAN News Writer 
World occupants 
especially Americans -are 
destroying Earth's air, water 
and land, the three resources 
that are most vital to our 
welfare, according to Father 
Theodore Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh, University presi­
dent-emeritus, addressed the international issue of the environment from a biological perspective before a group of ·faculty and students last 
night. 

Hesburgh is a member of 
the National Academy of 
Sciences, because of his use of 
science and technology for 
human betterment. He said 
that he has gained extensive 
knowledge of world 
environmental affairs through 
personal involvement. 
'Take Back the Night' march held to The "great threat of nuclear disaster has been overcome in the last year or so," so the im­
promote violence awareness at ND/SMC 
mediate threat to our environ­
ment has dissipated, he said. 
However, ..the threat of biol­ogy and chemistry that is made by human beings" is just as potent a disaster to our welfare in the long run, he said. Humans are the recipients of the three "gifts from God,.. and by destroying them, we are destroying ourselves. 
These "gifts from God" are the Van Allen Belt, the ozone layer and the biological balance of air between Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide. We are fueling the human thre-at by making our air unbreathable, our water undrinkable and our soil untillable. 
The Earth's air is being de­stroyed by the Green House Effect, a phenomenon that leads to global warming and turns temperate zones into tropical zones, according to Hesburgh. 
The depletion of the ozone layer allows ultraviolet rays to come into the atmosphere in a much stronger form, and thus heat up the atmosphere at an alarming rate, he said. For example, the average world temperature has increased by eight degrees in the last 50 years. 
Hesburgh said that we are "captives of our own technol­ogy... For example, extensive use of chlorofluorocarbons, which are present in aerosol cans, con tribute to the deterioration of the ozone layer. 
The extensive harm that is being done to our water sources is widely due to indi­vidual pollution, Hesburgh said. 
The paradigm of examples 



page 4 The Observer Friday, November 15,1991 

Revenge-minded postal worker opens fire in post office 
ROYAL OAK, Mich. (AP) -A fired postal worker who col­leagues said had vowed revenge on his superiors sprayed his former post office with bullets from a semiautomatic weapon Thursday, killing three employ­ees and wounding six, accord­ing to authorities. 
Employees said Thomas Mcll­vane, 31, of Oak Park, then turned the rifle on himself. He and three of his victims were hospitalized in critical condi­tion, authorities said. 
Mcllvane was fired last year for timecard fraud and had ap­pealed his dismissal, U.S. Postal Service spokesman Lou Eberhardt said in Washington. An arbitrator upheld the firing Wednesday. 
"Everybody said if he didn't get his job back, he was going to come in and shoot," postal worker Bob Cibulka said. "Everyone was talking about it." 
The gunman "was crazy. He was a waiting time bomb," said former postal worker Mark Mitchell, who served with Mcll­vane in the Marine Corps in the early 1980s. "He was a kick­boxer. He had made previous threats." 
"One time at Twentynine Palms (Marine base), there was a guy he was mad at and he drove a tank over his car," Mitchell said. He said Mcllvane was a lance corporal. 
Post offices have been the scene of several shootings in recent years. Last month, a fired postal worker killed two people in a post office, authori­ties said. Postal workers also died in attacks in Oklahoma and California. 

Mcllvane's previous threats against supervisors had been forwarded to Postal Service au­thorities, and the suspect's "contemplated homicide" in a dispute with other employees led to revocation of his con­cealed weapons permit for hunting and target shooting last spring, Oakland County Prosecutor Thompson said. 
Postal inspector Art Van­deputte said the Postal Service did what it could to prevent the potential for tragedy, short of sealing off the post office. Doors with combination locks were installed in the loading dock area about three months ago, postal workers said. 
"We simply don't have guards guarding the door," Vandeputte said. "This is a mail-processing facility. There are so many mail carriers coming in and so many vehicles, it's impossible to keep the back of the post office sealed." 
Thompson said the gunman used a semiautomatic .22-cal­iber carbine commonly used for hunting. He said the weapon's barrel had been sawed off, making it illegal. 
Seven people including Mcll­vane were being treated at hos­pitals, Royal Oak police Officer Joseph Hill said. Two hospitals in the Detroit suburb listed six people with gunshot wounds and three with unspecified in­juries. 
Hill said some postal workers were injured jumping from windows to escape the gunfire that began shortly before 9 a.m. 
The gunman opened fire in at least three different areas, be­ginning with a loading dock where at least three people were shot, fire Chief Bill Crouch said. 
He then moved to an upstairs office, shooting another three people, before walking to the opposite end of the building and firing several more rounds, including one at himself. 
"I don't think anyone can characterize something like this except chaos," Crouch said. "When something like this hap­pens you don't believe it. I don't know what the world's coming to." 

Business 
continued from page 1 
Most students in this first ac­counting course during the spring semester are usually non-majors taking the class as an elective, he added. 
Sections of Principles of Ac­counting II, typically majors­only, have been reduced from 13 to 10, Misiewicz said. The same number of students will be accommodated by increasing the size of eight sections by 10 students each. 
Class size for the second ac­counting course was approxi­mately 40 students last spring. Both courses are typically sophomore-level classes, he said. 
Although Misiewicz said that he would rather not raise class sizes, he doesn't see the in­creases as detrimental to learning. "I'd like to think that we could go back to a different model. But once you get beyond a certain level, it doesn't make much difference." 
While additional sections will not be cut, changes have been made as to who teaches classes within the department. 
Last spring the department had 15 sections staffed by ad­junct professors, according to Misiewicz. This spring, approx­imately six sections will be taught by adjuncts. 
"The difference is the nine sections that normally would have been staffed by adjuncts that just won't be offered." 
The adjuncts who will not be teaching this semester are graduate students who teach several sections on a semester­to-semester basis, he added. 
According to Misiewicz the overall numerical effect of cut­ting the sections will probably be "minimal." 
$3.50~---.....

'C()TT~IYXl~ 
All Shows 
Before 6 pm 
KELLY LYNCH

Scottsdale Mall • 291-4583
House The Pajama 
Jam! 
Plus short subject 
Mr. Bean



PARfYJ T~~an 
l'iil Daily: 4:45 700 9:30 1.!!.1 Sat,Sun: 200 4:45 700 9:30 
Finance 
The finance department has eliminated four sections for the spring semester, two of those popular elective courses. 
Two elective courses, Real Estate and Insurance, will not be offered this spring as a re­sult of setting priorities within the department, Keating said. Both courses cannot be used for the major and are taught only once per year. 
Both Real Estate and Insur­ance are always taught by ad­juncts because the department does not employ regular faculty skilled in those disciplines, Keating said. 
In addition to the cuts of elec­tives, sophomore and junior­level courses will increase in size this spring as a result of the budget situation. Because the department is offering fewer sections of introductory level finance courses, the re­maining sections will "all in­crease in size," he said. 
"Essentially, the Provost said that we had to balance our budget," Keating said. "One of the ways to do this was to eliminate faculty teaching," specifically adjuncts that will not be teaching due to the elim­ination of sections. 
Keating sees a benefit to the tightening within the college as a whole. By eliminating sections taught by adjuncts, students will find more of their courses taught by regular faculty mem­bers. 
There are approximately 4oo 
~:::e~eF::~~:s~:J:~~~~nn1i~~ 
are the two largest majors in
the college. 
Management 
The management and admin­
istrative sciences department is using money set aside for activ­ities like lectures and parties to accommodate for the dollar shortage throughout the Uni­versity, according to Khalil 
Big laughs come in small packages. 


D~~y~-=
Sat.Sun: 1:15 3:15 5:15 7:15 9:15 
Tuw~ l tuu~iE~" $3.50 
All Shows

2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090 Before 6 pm 
PARADISE 
Daly:4:30 700 9:15 Sat,Sun: 1 :30 4:30 700 9:15 

BILLY 

Daly: 4:45 7:15 9:30 Daly: 500 7:30 9:45 Sal.Sun: 1:45 4:45 7:15 9:30 Sat,Sun: 200 500 7:30 9:A5 

Matta, acting chairman. 
By using this "soft money," the department has avoided cutting courses or professors. Matta said, and class sizes have not increased. "We had some money set aside for such cir­cumstances," he said. "We're management people. All good managers should have contin­gency plans." 
Ideally, he said, all classes in the concentration would be filled by full-time professors. 
About 100 undergraduate business majors have a concen­tration in management, a figure which has remained constant for the last five years, he said. For the seven courses required for the concentration, and three upper level electives recommended for the concen­tration, class size varies from 25 to 50 students. 
In other courses within the college, average class size is about 50 students, Matta said, although there are some smaller classes. 
"The argument that we might want to keep class sizes very low might be a valid one," he commented, but added that he has heard few complaints about class size in the Management Department. 
Matta said he is confident the budget realignment will not be "a long term problem." 
Marketing 
The tale of the budget prob­lems in the marketing depart­ment is a "short story" accord­ing to Murphy. 
One class in the department will increase considerably in size, he said. Principles of Mar­keting, an introductory course exclusively for non-business majors, will hold 120-130 stu­dents. Under normal circum­stances class size would be limited to about 40 students, Murphy said, and the course would be divided into smaller sections. 
About 100 undergraduate business majors have a concen­tration in marketing, Murphy said, a slightly higher figure than in recent years. Due to this increase, other class sizes may increase, he said. 
The department is not seeking to fill any teaching positions, Murphy said. One full-time, tenured professor is on leave, but is expected to return next fall. Other full-time professors have "shifted around" to cover for the professor, he said. 

THEOLOGY AT SAINT MARY•s COLLEGE 
Spring 1992 
ELECTIVES RLST 306 Biblical Theology Weiss RLTS 312 Theologies of Love Malits 
RLST 370 Faith Meets Philosophy lncandela RLST 380 World Religions Martin RLST 445 History of Theology Mize 

MW  3:25pm  
M  6:30pm  
or T  6:30pm  
TT  11:00am  
TT  2:45pm  

To Be Arranged 

ND students fulfiH the first requirement in theology by taking RLST 200 and the second requirement by taking RLST 201·299. ND Students register by DART. See DART book, p. 58. Information: 284-4636
....,."""'-..............,.....,......_.........-......,.......,....;,;;,.....,.....~......,...._..-~.....,~~~;.;........;;......,._,;,.....,..;..._______
..... 

BRIISIBIISI&!LBRLBB~BRS~RIIN~"~~ ~~~a


@)//@J[N]© [S@@3&IT0J 
©~IT0Jr----1~~
0 0 ~:, ....... . ~ r I'J 
U 

WE NEED VOLUNTEERS FOR THESE UPCOMING ACTIVITIES: 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15 DANCE 7:00 • IO:oo 
VAN PICK-OPS: 6:30 SMC (IN FRONT OF HOLY CROSS) 
6:45 ND MAIN CIRCLE 
SATURDAY,NOVEMBER16 SATURDAY RECREATION 
VAN PICK-OPS: 8:30 AM SMC (HOLLY CROSS) 
8:45 AM ND MAIN CIRCLE 
QUESTIONS? CALL STEVE CURLEY@ 1849 KELLY SCHUMACHER @ 4854 
' 
...  
Friday, November 15,1991  The Observer  page 5  

Core program remains untouched by budget crisis 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI News Writer 
The College of Arts and Let­ters Core program has re­mained unscathed by the recent budget crisis which has effected numerous other departments. 
·we haven't scrimped be­cause of any budget crisis," ac­cording to Alven Neiman, assis­tant dean and assistant profes­sional specialist of the Arts and Letters Core Course. 
The Core program will drop one section for next semester not for budget reasons but simply for practical purposes, he said. The section, which does not have enough students, will be absorbed by the remaining 


great prices: 
• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

• 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 



The next time yo1Ne not quite "'"'..._. to call it a night. heaa to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 

Restaurant for the all­
new LATE NITE menu. tame the Midnight Munchies. 
Afl'lg· BigBoy 
Family Restaur•nts 


35 sections. These sections will consist of approximately 20 students 
· each. According to Neiman, the department has been able to in­crease in size as the College of Arts and Letters has grown. 
The program was an off­shoot of a Great Books Seminar required of all juniors in Arts and Letters, he said. In 1979 a greater emphasis was placed on social issues and the course became what is now known as the Arts and Letters Core course. 
"In 1979, there were only twenty sections of the course," said Neiman. He added that, although the department has expanded to accommodate the 
Economics department makes no cuts despite budget dilemma 
By COLLEEN GANNON Business Editor 
The Notre Dame economics department has not made any cuts due to the College of Arts and Letters' budget crisis, but does suffer in some aspects from underfunding, according to Charles Craypo, chairman. 
The number of faculty reflects the budget constraints. "We think we need additional faculty to carry out the teaching mission the way it should be carried out," Craypo said. An increase in faculty is needed to reduce class size and to enable the department to offer more courses. 
"Our teaching priority now would be upper division under­graduate courses, to have more of them and to try to offer more sections," said Craypo. He finds class size an important factor 
especially in theory classes where discussion is crucial. 
"We have to give priority to courses that are required and courses that generally have high enrollment," he said. 
If one must chose between a 400-level course and a required increase in popularity, such ex­pansion has meant hiring more adjuncts to teach some of the sections. 
"Ideally, we'd like to have tenured professors in a class with a small group of students," Neiman said, "but we hold our heads up high with any teacher we put in the classroom." He said that everyone in the program holds a doctorate. 
Neiman does not see any problems for the Core program in the future. He said the fac­ulty and the administration re­alize the importance of the program and will make the necessary effort to continue its tradition as a fundamental in­terdisciplinary course. 
Yet, ensuring a successful program requires a trade-off, according to Neiman. "Our fac­ulty is contributed to by the other departments," he said, "so for every professor we get from a certain department, for instance, that's one less course he or she can teach in that de­partment." 
But according to Neiman, professors are making other sacrifices as well. "We've been asked to teach extremely well at the graduate level, the un­dergraduate level and we're also expected to do research and work on publishing," said Neiman, "and with the re­sources we've been given, we're doing the best we can." 
"We ought to be applauded and given more funding," he said. He added that the Core Course is looking at the possi­bility of getting endowments di­rectly from donors. 
If such a program is insti­tuted, donors could give their money directly to the Core pro­gram instead of having their money trickle down into a number of different depart­ments, he said. 
Neiman is confident, how­ever, that the Core Course is not jeopardized by the budget crisis. "Even if Arts and Letters does have to cut back, there has been no suggestion that we cut back here (in the Core Course)," he said. 
course in a time of constraint, said Craypo, one has put the in­structor in the required course. 
"We are able to meet all of our obligations in both areas (undergraduate and graduate). By having done so, we are stretched a little thin for faculty resources to go beyond the requirements to provide addi­tional elective courses," Craypo said. 
The economics class sizes in the upper-level courses have remained the same. The aver­age capacity for 400-level courses was 28 students for both spring 1991 and spring 1992. 
The class size for the Princi­ples of Economics I has in­creased. The increase is the re­sult of a choice made by the de­partment, not a result of the budget constraint. 
The department replaced graduate students with senior teaching faculty in Principles in Economics I and Introduction to Economics. 
Craypo said problems exist with having graduate students teach all the Principles sections. "The quality of the teaching (by graduate students) is uneven 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
because they have very different levels of experience and ability," he explained. 
"We would like to have faculty teaching all of these courses, probably with large sections that had break-downs for discussion," he said. 
The economics department also offers the Principles course to students in the College of Business. "What we would like to do is get senior faculty into the business school Principles courses as well and just use graduate students in discussion sections," Craypo stated. 
.. 1 think the story of the de­partment is basically that to do the teaching mission as it should be done would require more faculty," he concluded. 
The department does not cur­rently have any open positions and has not been slated for any faculty increases next year. 
Despite the need for an in­crease in faculty members, the budget constraint did not affect the economics department, ac­cording to Craypo. 
The number of adjunct pro­fessors and graduate students teaching classes has not in­creased. 
TRAVELERS ~THIEVES 



~THAT 
n·s 



OVER,





THE FUN BEGINS. 
liN 

• 
OnA&M Records, Compact Discs 

and 
BASF 

LULU
Chrome Tape. 

EXPIRES 11/27/91 


CD11.99 TAPE 7.99 
NOW 
"We did not make any cuts in our operating budget," Craypo added. The operating budget includes supplies and other non-salary expenses. "We have not cut anything back, but there was not enough to begin with," he said. 
The slender budget leads to limits on faculty travel and telephone calls. These limits have not recently began but have always existed. 
"Any cuts from the depart­ment's operating budget would have a direct impact of the abil­ity of the department to func­tion," he said. 
Craypo does not see the lim­ited operating budget having any direct effect on the quality of undergraduate education. He does not recall ever turning down a professor's direct re­quest to him for something re­lating directly to the class­room. He does have to turn down requests for photocopies of articles or long distance per­sonal phone calls by professors. 
The numbers of economics majors may be declining, ac­cording to Craypo. The de­partment had 252 first majors as of the Spring 1991. He ex­plained the decline as a result of the courses in the major be­coming more theoretical and quantitative than in the past. 
~~Kg
NOTRE DAME'S CLOSEST NEIGHBOR 
2/10 OF AMILE FROM CAMPUS FURNISHED STUDIOS 1+2 BEDROOM APTS 2 BEDROOM TOWNHOUSES NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
272-8124 

Versatile ironing board 
Recently, my young son was sick and was home for a few days from school. He stayed in bed, and I was looking for a bedside table to put all of his essentials on. 
I found that an adjustable iron­ing board was just what I needed. I was able to set it at the right angle, and all of his stiff fit right 



page 6 · The Observer Friday, November 15,1991 
ulty shortage, the department according to Buttigieg: for the rest of the school com­
has turned to hiring adjuncts. •While English professors munity." Sheehy said. "The men
English Night
Three adjuncts are currently teach four classes a year, a realize that safety is not just a 
teaching. This hiring has ironi­number of science professors woman's issue." 
continued from page 1 continued from page 3
cally worsened the problem, teach only three, he said. Notre Dame student Manuel 
the entire problem." 
In order to further remedy this situation, the department set up a pre-registration system for English majors, he said. By allowing English majors to have an opportunity to enroll in 400­level ·courses before other students DART, the department has been able to limit the number of students in 400-level courses to 25 to 27. 
While pre-registration helps ensure that English majors can complete the number of courses needed for their major, it can­not promise students will get into the courses of their choice, according to Buttigieg. 
"We have not yet been able to reduce the size of 300-level courses" from the average 45 students, he continued. 
In order to alleviate the fac­


2:12a.m. A Notre Dame Security officer~:'"'.::!~~~~~~~~~('!t.!';~~~~~~~~I.A..~~~~"V aaaiated the Fire Oepartrnent at an al8tm In ~r.·~eov.·~n,~l-ii~t' Keenan Halt TNt alann sounded because oil!'-.,..-~~; .._.""•~ ... 
~had hefd.a smoking ob}$<:t near flte alatm•. 
10:45 p.m. .A Badin Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
11:30 p.m. Aft. off C8fllPl.IS student reporWd 1he theft of her ·unlocke<t bicycle from the · Laf~ Student Center. 
TUESDAY, NOV.. 12 
-:_t-;"" • 
7:20 a.m; A Oni~ity employee reported sha was accosted at the Huddle in · Lafonune Student Center. 
1:02 p.m. Notre Dame Se<:urity and Fite Department' treate<f an Ill Flanner Hall resident and assisted In transporting the student to the St. .bseph Medical Center. 
7:45 p.m. A University employee reported that she lost her keys at South Dining Hall. 
8:30 p.m. A Notre Dame Security Officer cited aSouth Bend resident tor driving 43 
m.p.h. in a 25 m.p,h. zone. 

3:11 p.m. A University employee reported that he lost his parking decal. 
3:30 p.trt. A facul.ty member reported larceny from her locked car which was parked at the JACCl 
......( 
3:50 p.m. Notre·Dame Security responded to an ac~lodent at the intersection of Douglas and Juniper,Roads. There were no injuries ln the accident 3:10p.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire Department trCJated an injured priest outside Corby Hall and then transported him 1D !he St Joseph.Medical Center. 
4:44 p.m. Notre Dame ~ry and Fire Department extinguished a car fire at the JACC. 
10:07 p.m. A Siegfried resident reported that she lost her datex and mom keys.
r:=:;:~;~,~·:-; .." 

271-1177 
FREE DELIVERY 
PAPA JOHN'S PREDICTION: 
NOTRE DAME 27 PENN STATE 24 
said Buttigieg. 
He explained that each ad­junct hired costs additional money -money that could be spent in other areas. 
"The budget problem stems from money being spent on hir­ing these extra people ... I could balance the budget; I'd just stop hiring adjuncts," he said. 
This solution is impractical though, said Buttigieg. To cut the adjuncts would further con­tribute to the faculty shortage. 
He emphasized that the prob­lem was not one of poor distri­bution of funds, but "clearly gross underfunding." 
The "budgetary glitch" is not strictly an Arts and Letters problem though, according to Buttigieg. It affects the entire University, if only by demon­strating the vast difference of treatment of each of the Col­leges, he said. 
"Since the University has a commitment to the humanities, it should have arranged to sup­ply resources to meet the rise in enrollment in Arts and Letters," said Buttigieg. 
"Whereas there are lots of complaints about the faculty in Arts and Letters not teaching enough and a fear of increased emphasis on research in the College, who dares say that of the sciences?" he asked. 
The faculty and course differ­ences in Arts and Letters and the College of Science are many, 

•
He cited physics as an ex­ample. Thirty-eight professors serve 450 majors in the English department, but about thirty faculty members serve only ap­proximately 45 majors in physics. 

•Both 
literature and science are University requirements, but students fulfilling the science course can choose from any course in the College of Science. Students attempting to fulfill the literature require­ment, on the other hand, have a narrower range of courses from which to select. Also, in­troductory science courses can hold a large number of stu­dents, but ideal English courses need to be much smaller, he said. 

•
Finally, research in English is "penniless," while research in the sciences includes laboratory equipment and other expensive materials, said Buttigieg. 


"This is a ridiculous imbal­ance," he said. "The fact that we have no resources is a joke." 
Despite these problems, But­tigieg and Robinson have re­mained optimistic. 
If there is a slight increase in the number of faculty members and if the number of majors levels out, Buttigieg predicts that problems could be ironed out within three to four years. 
"But that is a lot of 'ifs,"' Robinson added. 
"It was one of the few good things both campuses can get together and do," said Debbie Wunder, member of the Saint Mary's Senior Board. "Whether you're a guy or girl, you can be intimidated. This is meant to stop that." 
Leaders were also impressed with the male turnout at the event. 
"They are setting an example 
Lower the numbers 
and raise your odds. 
Controlling your blood pressure can reduce your chances of heart disease. Have your blood pressure checked. And keep it in check for life. 

t

VAmerican Heart Association 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents: 
National Players 
America's longest 
running classical 
touring company 
New Hours M-Th 11 :00 am -1 :00 am F-Sat 11:00 am-3:00am sun 12:00pm-12:00am 
MI 
Espino said that he wanted to show his support for women. "I came because I wanted to show my support to the women's struggle," he said, "Being here will have a positive effect on others." 
The demonstration was spon­sored by Saint Mary's and Notre Dame CARE groups, the SMC Women's Alliance, and the SMC and ND Alliances for Justice and Peace. 

BYWJLLIAl\1 GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders call239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 



The Observer 
Friday, November 15,1991 page 7 
Mpumlwana: Apartheid and injustice still exists in South Africa 
By JOHN CON NORTON 
News Writer 
Despite the seemingly en­couraging recent tum of events in South Africa, apartheid and injustice still exists, albeit in different forms, according to Reverend Malusi Mpumlwana. 
Mpumlwana said he and others are cynical about the South African government's sudden destruction of many of the major pillars of apartheid. The country's "basic structure cannot be wished away overnight," Mpumlwana said. 
Mpumlwana, of the Order of Ethiopia of the Anglican Church of the Province of Southern Africa, discussed the violence associated with the system of Apartheid last night at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. 
He was critical of the term "black-on-black violence," a 
racist myth that obscures the truth. This idea has been used by the South African govern­ment to further its own ends, he added. 
"The phrase black-on-black introduces an aura of the exotic and allows the South African government to say it fears interfering in the disputes of tribal warriors," Mpumlwana said. "No one considers what is going on in Northern Ireland to be 'white-on-white violence.'" 
Mpumlwana blamed much of the violence occurring in the townships on the South African government, saying, "clearly, there are power interests be­hind the violence." Despite the recent trend toward the left in governmental policy, right-wing groups remain strong and can influence important decisions. 
There has been tacit, even ac­tive, encouragement of violence by the government, he said. Re­cently, it was revealed that the deKlerk government funded the African National Congress's (ANC) rival, the Inkatha move­ment, and its leader, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi. 
This move was a deliberate attempt to further the violence between the two groups to dis­credit the anti-apartheid movement, he said. 
"The government helped promote the image of black-on­black violence at no political cost. Any violence that under­mines the liberation movement is welcome," Mpumlwana said. 
He said that the ANC wants an all-party conference to deal with issues currently at hand, an event that might take place by the end of the month. The ANC hopes to hold elections to select a mandated constitu­tional assembly which would then draft a constitution and create an interim government directly accountable to the assembly. 
"The whole nation would take responsibility with the govern­ment in the dismantling of apartheid," said Mpumlwana. 
The South African govern­ment has stated that it wants no constitutional assembly, but an organization governed by consensus, which would be nearly impossible to reach in such a divided country, he said. In addition, the government wants a white referendum with veto power over anything agreed upon by such an organi­zation. 
With such measures, Mpuml­wana said, "I wonder how seri­ous the government can be." 
The future of South Africa is in doubt. As Mpumlwana said, no oppressive government has ever removed itself from power. He urged the international community, the Western nations in particular, to continue to impose sanctions upon South Africa. 
"Sanctions are the only things that can be done with the least disruption," he said. 
Mpumlwana, in his early years, was an intimate of Stephen Biko, and worked with others to raise consciousness about black dignity. He was imprisoned and tortured for his beliefs. He became a pastor of 16 congregations in the Angli­can church. 
In 1986, Mpumlwana partici­pated in a graduate exchange program with Notre Dame, leaving the University of Capetown for a year. 
The lecture was sponsored by the African Students Associa­tion and Student Union Board. 
Davis: Germany takes on new role as C. Europe leader 
By BILL ALBERTINI 
News Writer 

Germany has taken on a new role as the economic leader of Central Europe, and has be­come the major trading partner and link to economic survival for several Central European nations, according to Patricia Davis, assistant professor of Government. 
The new, unified Germany will act as an "organizing hegemon" for Central Europe, said Davis yesterday during a lecture titled "The New Ger­many: A New Hegemon fc;>r Cen­tral Europe?" 
Germany will not seek to 

.MARIGOLD____.._...­
Aau.e-. 
~R_....E~ 
fVRLONCH-­
._ Grc~l ~W~~e.tt-e:~, ~v~ AND :=;;Al-~D$
__........ • 1:SSPf<E,S$0~D ~INO 
~ 

._ ~N~f't-SAK.EJ<Y 
._ :t7yNAMrrE: DE'~<SeR--r.S 
-------------~--------_./~·~.----------aa----------••· 
MARIGOLD MARKET 
~&CLEVELANDRD.·272·192.Z
" ~ 
t 
c 


Itself from instability, Davis said. 
One way that Germany can retain a stable economy is by increasing its own exports and by encouraging the increased exports of Hungary, Poland and Czechoslovakia, said Davis. 
Since German banks are the leading creditors for the debts in Poland and Hungary, the German government and busi­nesses are in a prime position to be the leaders in a western­ized Central Europe, according to Davis. 
Europe. 

Because of its relative eco­nomic strength and solid establishment in Central Eu­rope, Germany is in a position to keep other nations in line. According to Davis, Germany will "be able to enforce the rules of the game" throughout Central Europe. 
Since, in Davis' view, the change from planned economies to market economies will take at least a decade to accomplish, Germany is capable of and must create the stability needed for the changes to take place in Central Europe. 
Neither the new European Economic Community (EEC) nor the United States are in as good a position as Germany to have control over Central Europe, since Germany already has established economic and political ties to Europe, Davis 
HAPPY :19TH BIRTHDAY 

Love Mom, Dad, Brian, Dennis, Frosty andSpikey 
said. 
It does not appear that the 
EEC will have an established 
policy to deal with Central Eu­
rope, she said. Germany simply 
"has more to offer than the EEC 
right now," Davis said, and "can 
offer day-to-day grass roots 
help right now." 
One question which seems to come up often, according to Davis, is whether a reunified Germany will ever follow the same path as Nazi Germany. 
"I don't see anything indicat­ing that Germany will repeat this type of behavior," Davis said. Germany is far too firmly anchored in the west, in NATO, and in the United Nations and will not jeopardize these ties, she added. 
In the past, there was a great deal of German nationalism geared toward the unified na­tion of Germany, said Davis. However, today the unification of Germany is for purely eco­nomic motives, said Davis. 
Also, the military in Germany is heavily limited by Germany's constitution, and there is a strong anti-war sentiment throughout much of Germany's youth, she said. 
Davis is an assistant profes­sor of Government at Notre Dame, and spent eighteen months in Berlin in 1989 and 1990. She is currently conduct­ing further research on the ef­fects of a reunified Germany on the future of Europe. The lec­ture was sponsored by the Kel­logg Institute and the Commit­tee for European Studies. 
RICK GREY -1ST PRIZE JEN SMITH -2ND PRIZE 
AMY NICKNISH ~lRD PRIZE MIKE HOCHSTETLER 
NOTRE DAME FOODSERVICES DESIGN A MUG CONTEST 
CONGRATULATIONS! 

I I 
\­
HEAD COACH LOU HOLTZ INVITES NOTRE DAME ALUMNI, STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF TO JOIN HIM IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST ANNUAL SOUTH BEND CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON 
WEDNESDAY DECEMBER4 11:30 A.M. 
CENTURY CENTER, SOUTH BEND 
Since the founding of South Bend's Center for the Homeless in 1988, the Notre Dame community has embraced the Center as an opportunity for students, faculty, staff and alumni to reach out in the spirit of Jesus to the less fortunate of Michiana. Lou Nanni, a Notre Dame alumnus and member of the University's Board of Trustees, is the Center's director. University administrators serve on the Center's board. Students, faculty and staff members volunteer their time tq minister to the Center's residents. Notre Dame alumni have served on the Center's staff and been among its early benefactors. 
Now friends of the Center, including Coach Lou Holtz and other members of the University community, are joining in the inauguration of a splendid new holiday tradition: the first annual Center for the Homeless Christmas Luncheon. This event will play a pivotal role'"in enabling the Center to meet the vital needs of the homeless during the coming winter. 
Staffed by1 0 people assisted by some 400 volunteers each month, the Center is equipped with 135 beds in three residential areas--for men, for women and for families. During the first nine months of 1991, it has provided 17,605 nights' lodging and more than 33,000 meals. Even in this year's mild Michiana autumn, the Center has averaged 85 guests each night ... and the number will increase dramatically as the weather grows colder. 
In addition, some 100 needy people each day use Center services including mental health counseling, medical and dental care, job placement, outpatient treatment for mental illness and chemical dependency, parental counseling programs, preschool and G.E.D. classes, and legal aid. 
The Center depends entirely on community volunteers and generosity-..on people like you--to offer the homeless these gifts of hospitality, compassion, and respect. 
By your presence or by your support, please join the Notre Dame and Michiana communities on December 4 ... in the spirit of the Christ Child . . . in celebration of the gift of giving. 
YES, I plan to join Coach Holtz December 4 in support of Michiana's homeless. 
Please reserve: 
__tables of eight at $240 per table 
__ individuals at $30 per reservation 
I'M UNABLE TO ATTEND the December 4 luncheon, but please accept my gift of 
$ to the Center for the Homeless 
(Please make checks payable to the Center for the Homeless) 
813 South Michigan St., South Bend, IN 46601 
NAME_____________________....____________________...._______ 
COMPANY NAME 
ADDRESS______________________________________--_________ 
CITY___________________________________STATE 71P...._____ 
PHONE_________________,________________________________________________ 
---Contributions to the Center for the Homeless are tax deductible--­
Friday, November 15,1991 
Notre Dame to broadcast preschool TV via staellite 
Special to Observer 

The emotional and educa­tional development of preschoolers will be the subject of a University of Notre Dame Alumni Association program to be telecast live nationwide via satellite Sunday, Nov. 17. 
''I'm Me and I'm Special: Your Preschooler's Start to a Happy Life" will be broadcast from 2 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. EST to some 17 million cable televi­sion viewers via satellite to Notre Dame alumni audiences and others at 100 sites across the country. The interactive program will include call-in questions from viewers at home and in group settings. 
Cable systems that carry the Vision Interfaith Satellite Net­work (VISN) will broadcast the teleconference as part of their regular programming. In addi­tion, 37 other cable companies will carry the telecast on a spe­cial basis. Viewers should con­sult local guides for the time and channel of the telecast in their area. 
Originating from the Notre Dame campus, the program will feature a panel discussion focusing on such issues as self­esteem, discipline, standards for success and the learning environment. It will be the third such telecast presented by Notre Dame and the first in a three-part series on parcn!!tlg, 
"We're the only University in the country to provide educa­tional programming for alumni through satellite television," said Kathleen Sullivan, director of alumni continuing education at Notre Dame .. 
"This program allows Notre Dame "to carry on its greatest tradition: a commitment to learning and caring," said Sul­livan. "We can bring Notre Dame programs off-campus to our alumni and to a broad spectrum of others throughout the country." 
Panelists for the upcoming telecast include: Terri Kosik, the director of early childhood development at Saint Mary's College; Ruth Warren, a mem­ber of the National Council on Self-Esteem; and Thomas V. Morris, an associate professor of philosophy at Notre Dame and 1990 Indiana professor the year. 
The live program will be broken into three segments en­compassing 15 minutes of dis­cussion by the pa~elists fol­lowed by 10 minutes of ques­tions called in by viewers. 
Notre Dame alumni clubs, educational organizations, Catholic parishes and other groups will participate directly in the program at some 100 sites nationwide. These groups will receive the program by di­rect satellite link. Many will of­fer on-site discussions immedi­ately afterward with experts in the field. 
The first two telecasts in the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion's Continuing Education series focused on marriage. The upcoming program on nrcscho(jle~s "vill be followed bya telecast on elementary schoolchildren March 8 and on teenagers in November 1992. 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
'Tis the season. .. 
Jay Sharp, Tim-Hipp, Tanya Wilson and Tricia Desimone (front row, left to right) practice with the ND/SMC Collegiate Choir in preparation for the upcoming holiday season. 
Saint Mary's AHA reviews parietals 
By JOAN CATALANO 
Saint Mary's News Writer 
The proposal for a parietal change at Saint Mary's College may be submitted to the Se­niors' Office meeting next Tuesday. 
The Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) last night discussed the possible ex­tension of parietals. The pro­posed hours are 10 a.m. to 3 
a.m.• seven days a week. 
In other business, T-shirts will be sold as a fundraising activity. Students are asked to submit the top ten reasons to go to Saint Mary's. Winning submissions will be awarded a free t-shirt. ID holders will be sold by Augusta as another fundraising activity. They may be ordered at five dollars each and will be in before Christmas. 
The Coffeehouse, located in the Clubhouse at Saint Mary's, is consistently drawing 30-45 people to enjoy the entertain­ment and atmosphere it pro­vides. People interested in working or performing at the Coffeehouse are asked to con­tact Peggy Abood at 284-5063. Sister Chain, a music group from Saint Mary's, will be per­forming at The Coffeehouse Nov. 20. On December 4, Sister Chain will be performing again with a one dollar charge at the door. The proceeds will go to the Woman's Shelter in South Bend. 
On Dec. 2, at 6:30 p.m. in Au­gusta Hall, there will be a ques­tion and answer session on eating disorders. 
Plans for Spring 1992 semester were also discussed last night. There will be a resi­dence hall division in indoor soccer, women's volleyball, and softball. There will be interhall competitions and interhall olympics. A bowling night is also planned. 

THE DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS OF GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY LAW CENTER 
WILL BE MEETING WITH STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN LAW S·CHOOL 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991 AT 12:30 & 1:15 SIGN UP IN CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE 
t 
\ 
I 
I 
! 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, November 15, 1991 

--Ihe-O.bse---. ----~~er--­
-A.-=Y~ --­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief 
Kelley Tuthill 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ................. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor ................... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .......... .Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Duke candidacy shows voters' frustrations 
A headline on a recent front page of the Washington Post ~eekly proclaimed. "The American Voter-Dismayed, De­tpressed, Disgusted." This statement seems to successfully capture the apathy and frustration that is running through a country of voters who are fed up with the system and the politicians who have placed the United States in the si­tuation that it is in today. 
Such frustration is leading the American voter to support such politicians as Louisiana's gubernatorial candidate David Duke. Duke. former grand wizard of the Klu Klux Klan and founder of the National Association for the ~dvancement of White People. is running a very close second to former governor Edwin Edwards in Saturday's !run-ofT election. Duke has participated in activities which should have spelled political death for him, but instead he jwas elected to the Louisiana Legislature in 1989. Now he !has a legitimate chance of being elected governor. 
The American people, like the voters in Louisiana, are ~urning to candidates like Duke not necessarily because !they approve of his supremacist history. but because they are tired of the politicians who have done nothing for them. 
Duke offers a platform which appeals to those who are suffering under the strain of the recession. He is offering something that the incumbents are not. namely change ~rom the status quo. What the people of Louisiana are overlooking is that Duke has no credibility. 
What evidence is there that he is competent enough to rejuvenate the economy? None. The only concrete thing we know about Duke is his history as a racist. The people of Louisiana seem ready to take the risk of voting a professed racist into office in hopes that he will do something that the others have not. 
One Louisiana voter made this comment in the Washington Post Weekly: "The biggest problem is that people think this is a racist issue. It isn't. It's a vote against the incumbents. We're frustrated with a bloated government that doesn't care about us." 
If David Duke is voted into office this Saturday. it will be a very sad statement about the state of American politics. Voters are risking the integrity of the American system on candidates like Duke because they have been backed into a corner and believe that there are no other options. 
DOONESBURV 

LEIIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Magic will be missed, not forgotten 
Dear Editor: 
Five NBA championships. Three NBA MVP awards. 9921 career assists. One NCAA championship. One high school championship in the state of Michigan. These are the num­bers on a man called Magic, the NBA's consummate team player. 
American Heart Association. Muscular Dystrophy. Sickle Cell. United Negro College Fund. Starlight Foundation. Money raised in 1991: $3 mil­lion (est.). This is the story of a team player known as Earvin Johnson, Jr. 
Of course, Earvin Johnson, Jr., is Magic. And over the years giving has become his trademark. Apparently, Magic has given his fmal performance on the hardcourt. Last Thurs­day, Magic Johnson, one of America's most beloved sports heroes, retired in announcing that he has contracted HIV (Human immunodeficiency virus), the virus that oftentimes inflicts people with the deadly AIDS disease. This develop­ment has effected a sudden end to the career of a man who for­ever changed the face of the game of basketball. 
In 1979, the paths of two Midwestern boys intersected on a basketball court in Salt Lake City, Utah. Through that NCAA Championship game (won by Johnson's Michigan State Spar­tans), Magic Johnson and Larry Bird established a riv that would soon revive a belea­guered National Basketball As­sociation. The ensuing months saw Bird donning Boston Celtic green, Johnson in L.A. Laker gold. 
East-West, The Garden-The Forum, Celtics-Lakers, BIRD­MAGIC: These are the themes of juxtaposition that generated larger crowds, increased play­ers' salaries, and essentially transformed the NBA into the pop culture smash that it is to­day. 
Aside from his contributions to the present-day popularity of basketball, Magic Johnson rev­olutionized the way in which the game is played. Never before had the NBA seen a 6'9" point guard. With the size of an average forward, Johnson nevertheless possessed the court savvy and the skills to become the best at the .. little man's" position. Furthermore, Magic's assist wizardry set an example that players at all levels would follow; passing the ball became the hip thing to do. 
Magic Johnson's illustrious career endures in the collective memory of a nation that adores its sports stars. Visions of Magic's performance (42 pts., 15 rebs., 7 assists, played all five positions) in the sixth game of the 1980 NBA Finals burn brightly. 
Incidentally, to demonstrate the enormous impact of Bird and Johnson 
decade, CBS televised that series-clinching game on a tape delay basis; radio stations pre­sented only the live broadcast. The lore of Magic Johnson also includes a "junior, junior sky­hook" to defeat Bird's Celtics in Game 4 of the 1987 Finals. 
Who can forget the myriad of no-look passes, the .. coast-to­coast" drives laden with elec­tricity, the set shot three-point­ers, that wonderful smile? Mil­lions will forever cherish these memories of Magic Johnson, basketball's greatest point guard ever. 
Earvin Johnson, the kid from Lansing, Michigan, must now confront a new purpose in life. Basketball, his love and his passion, has been snatched away by an unforgiving men­ace. Johnson will now preach "safe sex" and HIV/AIDS awareness. 
Last week's press conference showcased a Magic Johnson who is once again smiling in the face of adversity. Generosity, perseverance, a love of the game, and remarkable charm took Magic Johnson to the top of the basketball world. These, too, are the qualities of a man who has truly touched my life and the lives of many others. Gone from basketball, Magic Johnson will be sorely missed, but not soon forgotten. 
Paul Stelzer Morrissey Hall Nov. 1 1991 
MR. fl.NJffl?/V, RJNOIIN6m5FOR 7Ht a;4 CAN f3t. PFeT7Y TWIOU5. 50SCWttT!Mt-5/A/15AM..I5t OUR­~5 8Y 'WINW/1.15HOPPIN6"­
tfXJKIN6 TOSf£IF~ 
PROMINf:NTINIJIV/ro4t­
HA5AF/U. 
\ 

I.EUAUY lf5 A MICI< JAG6!31< or< 50118 f()(JT!3AU-PtAYliR. 8IfT!Am­IN '88, AFT/51< QUAYtt NAS IKJM/­
NAT£31), 50IYiffON& OIW:W HI5FI~. JURNel}a.JTHt'!J 8ff.N 1Nve5T16A7EP FOR 
PUfViA5/NG OXAINe fHillb Ht WAS A 5&NATOR. 
~ 

H~ ANYTHING 
NO,

OOYOU ON MIO<.~ 
Mia<
MINI)? 
tuAS
I 
(W£..
I 
\ 

! 
'The student is the most important person on the campus. Without the students there would be no need for the institution.' 
Sign seen in Registrar's Office 
Show that you're important . .. submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
~--~:-------.---~----.-~--~................................~..--~--~--..----~----------------~------~.-------------·~ 
Tuesday's  edition  of  The  
Observer.  
It seems  that the football  

I I 
I 
i 
Viewpoint
Friday, November 15, 1991 page 11 
Beware of witch hunt against the 'politically correct' 
"The question is very simple, name of such devilish ideas as copy of a syllabus from one of intellectual words like that.
Andrew Cutrofello 
Professor. Are you now or have 'deconstructionism,' 'feminism,' your courses. Seems you once don't fully understand them
Subterranean Homesick 
you ever been 'politically and 'affirmative actionism.' So assigned a book called either, and thank God for that.
Politics 
correct?'" just give us a straight answer. 'Herland?'" But luckily I understand enough
it is that you have to hide." 
"Senator, I've never been sure Are you 'politically correct?'" "Yes, in my 'Women and Lit­to know that deconstructionism 
"Senator, I have nothing to
exactly what is meant by the "Very well, Senator. In your erature' course." is an insidious, hateful ideology
hide. I am committed to certain
phrase 'politically correct.' sense of the term, no, I do not "Now, Professor, I find this which teaches that there is no 
principles. In accordance with
Does it refer to the way in think that I am 'politically cor­hard to believe, but I'm told by God. Professor, are you a de­
these principles, I cannot and
which some people try to force rect.'" a member of my staff that this constructionist?" 
will not cooperate with this
their politics on others? If so, "That's good. I like to hear book was written by a lesbian, "Senator, it is impossible for 
Committee's witch hunt."
then no, I don't think that I am that. That suggests to me that and that it depicts a supposed me to speak to these questions
"Very well, Professor, if it's
politically correct. Or is it sup­you are willing to cooperate 'utopia' where there are no under these circumstances. 
hardball you want to play, then
posed to refer to the way in with this Committee's efforts to men whatsoever. Professor, I'll Therefore, I refuse to play by
we'll play hardball. We had one
which a person who is commit­exterminate the evil of 'political be honest with you. This is the your script any longer."
of your former colleagues here
ted to a principle will fight to correctness' from American kind of thing that turns my "Professor, you have been 
the other day. Intimated that
uphold that principle? If this is campuses. Continue to cooper­stomach. This was required subpoenaed to respond to the 
you were as 'politically correct' 
what a 'politically correct' per­ate, Professor, and you have reading?" charge of 'political correctness,' 
as they come. Claimed that you
son is like, then yes, I am nothing to be afraid of person­"Yes it was." and you will respond. Did you
had helped to organize a cam­
'politically correct.' But if this ally. My next question is not "You openly admit that you or did you not give a talk 
pus group that was trying to
is what is meant, Senator, then about you. It is about those forced your students to pur­entitled, "Jeffersonian Racism
'open up' the curriculum." 
anyone with integrity is persons whose activities you chase and to read a lesbian Revisited?" Where are you
"In my sworn affidavit, I have 
'politically correct.'" might inform the Committee pamphlet. And then you have going, Professor? You're in 
acknowledged my involvement
"They told me to watch our about. Can you give us the the audacity to suggest that you contempt, ma'am! I'll have you
with this group, and I have ex­
for you, Professor. They said, names of any professor whom are not 'politically correct?'" brought to trial! Mr. Chairman,
plained its intentions. Is it
'Watch out, she'll turn you to you would consider to be "Senator-" I have here a list of 47 faculty
'politically correct' to ask that
the north and make you think 'politically correct?'" "Let's move on. You once pre­members at her university
minority voices be heard? Is it
you're facing south.' Let's not "Senator, I refuse to answer sented a paper about the sup­alone who are all card-carrying
'politically correct' to challenge
lose sight of why we're here. that question." posed benefits of-and I'll have members of a 'politically 
a tribunal whose veiled inter­
We are here to uproot the nox­"I am very sorry to hear that, to quote this, 'cause there sure correct' conspiracy to 
ests come off as self-righteous
ious weed of 'political correct­Professor, very sorry. I like you. are a lot of big, fancy, intellec­undermine the foundations of 
respect for human culture?"
ness' that is polluting the minds You have a pretty face, and you tual words American civilization." 
"Professor, you will not use
of our young people. The seem to be pretty smart. But here-' decons tructi ng
this public forum to air your
American people will no longer I'll be frank with you. If you patrjarchal, racist, and classist Andrew Cutrofello is a 
'politically correct' ideology.
tolerate what the 'politically refuse to cooperate with these hierarchies.' Professor, that's a professor in philosophy at Saint 
You will answer the questions
correct' have been passing off proceedings, the Committee has mouthful. Most Americans Mary's College. His columns 
which we ask. I have here a
as a college education in the little choice but to wonder what don't understand big, fancy, appear every other Friday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Football team left field without saying goodbye 
Dear Editor: make up what is the special Notre Dame football experi­
I would like to thank your ence. The helmet salute was sports staff for addressing the referred to as a time of commu­hurt felt in the stands as our nion where the players and the football team left the field last fans become one. The salute is Saturday without saying a time of closure where every­"Thank you"...without saying one says, "It's been great. I'm "Goodbye." glad we could all be here to­
I have never understood the gether. Until next time, I say helmet salute to be a time of 'Goodbye.' Thank you. I'll miss rejoicing for victory of some­you. I love you." thing resembling a touchdown Last Saturday, as I saw my dance. As a matter of fact, last Notre Dame game as a Notre Dame has always looked student with all of my friends in down on teams like Miami that the stadium, I said this to all of dance around in self-glorifica­my friends. We said it too each tion. Notre Dame always other. We said it to Coach seemed to realize that a touch­Holtz. We said it to you, the down is n~t due to a spectacu­players, who fought hard on the lar effort of a star running field, gave us a National back. Championship and four of what 
Every Notre Dame touchdown will be the best of our lives. We is a result of a running back, a clapped regardless of what coach, a line of blockers, a de­might happen on one particular coy wide receiver, the recruiting day. The fantastic memories staff, assistant coaches, and the and bond cannot be erased. If spirit provided by a stadium full you could not find the heart to of fans and supporters that say "Thank you," you at least keep the momentum going. could have said "You're wel­
As was stated at one of the come." pep rallies this year, the rela­Ed Palmisano tionship of the fans to the play­Cavanaugh Hall ers and vice versa together Nov. 12, 1991 
Campuses should have single 911 number for all emergencies 
Dear Editor: emergency help. Can you 
I recently began a first aid imagine what he would go class for PE. When the instruc­through when he found out that tor asked us what number we 911 doesn't work? would dial in case of an emer­The University should be do­gency, we naturally responded ing more to make sure the stu­"911." We were wrong. There dents know the correct num­are three different numbers to bers. There should be numer­
dial for the campus emergency ous signs posted in every build­medical system. In the dorms it ing where ·students would see is 4444, and in the other build­them, and possibly even stick­ings 5555. At Saint Mary's the ers put near the phone outlets. number is 5000. This could mean the difference 
Suppose a student found his between life and death. roommate unconscious on the Chris Boyle floor. He already has enough to Flanner Hall worry about as he calls for Nov. 12, 1991 
Fans should be thankful and appreciative 
Dear Editor: 
Everyone knew it was coming. After the Irish's heartbreaking 35-34 loss to Tennessee, we all could predict that someone would be quick to complain about something. Sure enough, Sports Copy Editors Rich Szabo and Jennifer Marten brought the prophecy to fulfillment in 
squad did not salute the stu­dents after their defeat, and Ms. Marten and Mr. Szabo want to let us know that they think the team should "at least have the inner strength to raise their heads(and helmets) and thank the fans for their support throughout the entire season." I guess these two are right­"it's a fair weather helmet salute." Jennifer and Rich really should take it easy before they break my heart. 
Who exactly are the fair 
weather ones here? According to our dynamic duo, the team "let us down" and made "the fans take the blame for the loss." Who is blaming whom? Szabo and Marten are the ones who are whining. We guess they didn't go to the game to watch the Irish play, but to watch the Irish win, and when the team didn't, well, they started complaining. 
We're not happy with the loss, but we also can understand how the players felt after that emotionally draining game. An appropriate analogy would be for a person to fail a final. That person doesn't feel worthy. 
Likewise, the players don't feel like raising their helmet. Everyone knows the team ap­preciates the students' support. Go to a pep rally, and you'll see what we mean. A true fan can understand and get over a loss without condemning the team. 
Maybe the team should have 
thanked the fans for coming out to watch the game, but Marten and Szabo are ready to have the team tarred and feathered. Who are they to pass sentence? They brought up a good point, but handled it without class. 
We know there were plenty of cheers for the team in the first half, but they seemed to fade away during the second half. Perhaps the team should have thanked the fans at half time for their support, because there wasn't as much in the second half. Perhaps some fans could thank the team for giving ND students some of the greatest memories that any college stu­dent could ever hope to have. 
Greg Estes, MaH Carver Armando Saldivar Mike Robson, Jim Hurley Derrick Fluhme Chris McGoldrick Joe Bergan Dillon Hall Nov. 13, 1991 

Sports writers' column off the mark 
Dear Editor: 
The November 12 commentary written by Rich Szabo and Jennifer Marten regarding the football team's non-salute of the student section after the Tennessee game was poorly written, far too whiny, and off the mark. 
First, their point could easily have been made in one-third the space without all of the "high infidelity," "tragedy," "shamed players," and I could go on. In fact, something"to the effect of, How about a salute to the student body after every home game-win or lose? would have been appropriate, given that that was really the point. 
I question, however, if such a salute would have in fact been appropriate after the Tennessee loss. The team did the best they could but came up short in a rather maddening way. We all felt that. Accordingly, many of the students, who otherwise would have "endured to the end," instead endured straight for the exits in the same manner that the players went for the locker room. 
To say, "The act was a total shock to the student body," is a gross exaggeration. There is simply no debate on that one. But then, to write that this non­act somehow placed the blame on the fans is an insult to the team. Moreover, the imbecilic "They're the ones th·at let us down" negates the whole point of the Szabo/Marten commen­tary. Think about it. 
Lastly, I think that perhaps this idea expressed by the sports copy editors is indicative of a larger problem in the cur­rent student body. You've been spoiled by five straight years of great teams. When your com­plaints are limited to some cry­ing about not receiving your proper respect for watching the game, you have no real prob­lems. A salute to the students, to have any meaning, should be an impromptu display of affec­tion, not some programmed duty. 
To the members of the class of 1992 who have that "emptiness" that Szabo/Marten write of, be assured that it will pass. The class of 1987's last home game was a thrilling· last­minute loss to #1 Penn State. We were 5-6 that year (horror of horrors) and to be honest, I haven't a clue what the team did after the game as the class of '92 won't either. All you'll remember is that it was one helluva game where we came up short. 
Frank Pimentel '87 Law School Nov. 13, 1991 



lOll l\1

~ :::: 
I 
~}:: 
:::!..''!.·
)J:>'' 

:;::::: ::::::.::.:::::.::· 

:'l'!':: 
: Tis 
:;::: ;: :,;:d
>·"' 

i \ 
:;:; 
:,iii!!iJ!ii }) ~~:i;ii:f:Ji; 'Hi :::: ;:: 
;) 

f. 
Plan for the necessities 
By JIM BONALSKY 
Accent Writer 
A 
re you under a lot of stress? Have you been working hard for weeks on end? Are you run down and completely exhausted? Perhaps the best medicine for your ailment would be to get away from it all for a weekend. Everybody needs a good vacation to revitalize their spirits and recharge their batteries, but the question is where? There are so many places that perk one's interest, such as Palm Beach, Cancun, Australia, and Bali Bali, that it is quite difficult to choose just one. 
However, imagine lying on a goldensand beach as large palm trees sway gently in the breeze. Picture yourself entering the crystal-clear water as you look around at the scantily-clad, bronze-skinned members of the opposite sex that surround you. Do you have that image? Well, forget it and put it on hold until spring break. Instead, set your sights on an area where the weather and overall layout are-quite comparable to South Bend. Get ready to hop in the car, bus, train, or plane and head for State College, PA, home of Penn State University. 
Penn State is a great idea for a weekend getaway, 
especially this particular weekend, because it just so 
happens that our football team is playing there on 
Saturday. If you are planning on heading east on Friday 
then you will probably need a place to stay. If you are a 
true road-tripper and can sleep comfortably in the back 
seat of a car, then you will definitely need places to eat. 
In order to assist you with your trip, here is a 
compilation of the accommodations around the Penn 
State Campus. 
There is a variety of places to stay, ranging in price 
from cheap motel rates to the more expensive hotels. In 
the thirty dollar range (for a double) is the Budget 
Host/Friendly Inn on Route 150 in Bellefonte, the phone 
number is (all area codes (814)) 355-5561. Also in this 
category are Hall's Motel, 1040 N. Atherton St., 238­
6783, The Happy Valley Motor Inn, 1245 S. Atherton St., 
238-8461, and the Nittany Budget Motel, 1247 N. 
Atherton St.. 2377638. 
Checking in at around fifty dollars for a double are the 
Best Western State College Inn, S. Atherton St., 237­
8005, the Econo Lodge, exit 23 on I-80, 355-7521, the 
Hampton Inn Hotel, 1101 E. College Ave, 231-1590, the 
Holiday Inn Penn State, 1450 S. Atherton St., 238-3001, 
and the Imperial "400" Motor Inn, 118-120 S. Atherton 
St., 237-7686. 
For more expensive tastes (those who merely enjoy 
having the maid leave a good mint on their pillow), there 
are lodgings in the sixty-five dollar and up range. They 
include the Atherton Hilton, 1405 S. Atherton St., 231­
2100, the Days Inn Penn State, 240 S. Pugh St., 238­
8454, and the Nittany Lion Inn, N. Atherton St., 231­
7500. The finest hotel in the area is the Toftrees Hotel 
Resort and Conference Center, on One Country Club 
Lane, 234-8000, where the price is ninety-five dollars a 
night. 
For those of you who are more concerned with your 
stomach fear not. State College has a great number of 
restaurants that serve all kinds of cuisine. The following 
are just a few of the more popular ones. In addition the 
town has all the fast food chains, the national chains 
such as Denny's, and many pizza joints. 
If your concept of a Cheesesteak sandwich comes from 
the Dining Halls, you must find a place that serves 
authentic cheesesteaks. The best places to do this are 
C.C. Peppers (434 E. College Avenue; 814-238-6256) and Lee's Hoagie House (222 W. Beaver Avenue; 814-234­3535). 
For breakfast, try the Waffie Shop at 364 E. College 
Avenue (814-237-9741). It's a lot like the Pancake 
House so get there early. 
Mario & Luigi's has great Italian food at a good price 
(114 S. Garner Street; 814-237-0374). It is very popular 
among the Penn State students. 
The Deli (113 Heister Street; 814-237-5710) has over 
400 menu item around $8. Baby's at 321 S. Garner 
(814-234-4776) specializes in burgers, fries, and shakes. 
It has a 50's diner atmosphere . 



THE T 
c TO 




Welco1 

By STEVE BROWN 

Accent Writer 
ell it's roadtrip time again! (And the last one of the year for those of 

us who, for one reason or another, can't make it to either Hawaii or the bowl game). But not to worry! The Penn State roadtrip experience promises just as much excitement as the tropical paradise of Oahu or the summer play­ground of bowl game country. 
Well.... maybe not! But there is still much fun to be had this weekend smack dab in the middle of the Keystone State. 
! I 
----.......§ ____________________,____ 
-l 
l l 
a e 13 

I l I 
I 
l
,




By MATTHEW MOHS 
Accent Writer  
N  ow that the home football season is over, it is time for the social lives of Notre Dame stu­ 
dents to return to  

its less hectic roots. Most students will spend this weekend, enjoying the comforts of the South Bend nightlife or studying for the final stretch. However, there will be some brave souls making the nine hour trip to State College, Pennsylvania to see their Irish team take on the Nittany Lions of Penn State. 
For most of these sojourners the trip will be a nice change of pace because State College is a real college town. The town has over twenty bars that cater to the students with all different kinds of atmospheres. It is also traditionally known for one of the liveliest Greek systems in the nation. 
Yet, State College might be completely overwhelming with­out a guide. For the benefit of those without a friend at Penn State to guide them around, here is a list of some the more popular places in the town. These are also some of the best places to get a feel for the Penn State social scene. 
For those faithful road-trip­pers that are of legal age, the bar scene will make South Bend's seem lame. 
Players is located at 112 E. College Avenue (814-234-1031). This bar has live bands on the weekends and charges a $4 cover. This Friday, Pictures which plays current covers and classic rock will be performing. 
The Gingerbreadman at 130 Heister (814-237-0361) is one of the choice bars for Penn State students who call it "G'Man." It has a $1 cover charge and sounds a lot like Jay's Lounge. 
If a dance bar seems more enjoyable, The Lion's Den at 118 S. Garner (814-237-5081) might be the place. They have a DJ scheduled for Saturday night. The Saloon (101 Heister; 814-234-0845) will also have a DJ and focuses on dance music. The bar is located on the corner 
PaPtying 
at Penn State 
of College and Heister and will have a $1 cover. 
The Rathskellar at 108 S. Pew Street has a great name and is another favorite of Penn state students. It will be very busy on Saturday night and will have a $2 cover. 
For those that might like a group atmosphere, a great bar might be The Phyrst. Located at 112.5 E. Beaver (814-238­1406), the First Family will perform on Saturday night. The crowd will probably sing along with the band and it will be extremely crowded. 
To get away from the rock scene, try Cafe 210 West also on College Avenue. (814-237­3858). The Queen's Bee, a blues band will be playing on Saturday. 
Looking for a sports bar? Try Champs (1611 N. Atherton Street, 814-234-7700). It's not located in the same place as all these other bars, which should lessen traffic, and it also has a full service restaurant. 
The Brewery (233 E. Beaver; 814-237-2892) sounds good for live music. With a $2 cover on Saturday night, it has bands playing for the night. At 10:30 
p.m. the Screaming Ducks, a good classic rock band, will perform. 
However, the much touted Greek system does not play as much of a role as it did. On November 1, the system decided to go BYOB. As a result, the social scene is moving away from the frats and sororities. To get in to the parties, one must know someone in the house. Delta Sigma, Alpha Sigma, Phi Sigma Kappa, Sigma Pi, and Sigma Phi Epsilon are the largest Greeks. It might be better to find an apartment party which will be more receptive to visiting stu­dents and more fun. 
Tailgaiting occurs before ev­ery home game much like it does at ND. However, students are permitted to tailgait. For most students at Penn State, this is a great way to get in the mood for the game. Anyone can park, just get there early. As one Penn State student put it, "Bring food and beer, throw open your back, blast some music, and start enjoying." 
ge to the home of the Penn State Ninany Lions 
For those of us lucky enough to have the chance to see the Irish UNDERDOGS?!?! (strange but true, I know) tame the Nittany Lions this weekend, there are two essential factors. First, and most importantly, we have to get to the place. The best route is to take Interstate 80 East, which will carry you all the way through Ohio and into Pennsylvania. Then, after you're about three hours into PA, take the Bellefonte exit which will put you on Route 26 South. From there just follow the signs for State College, which is about twenty minutes from the Bellefonte exit. You should probably allow about nine hours for the entire trip. 
The second key ingredient to the Penn State roadtrip, especially after the long drive, is taking care of yourself, getting plenty of sleep, exercising and eating right. 
The campus affords many opportunities for this, but many, many more opportunities for simply having a good time! With somewhere in the vicinity of sixty-thousand students and one of the largest Greek systems in the country, there is almost never a dull moment on campus. And, to be sure, this weekend promises to be a particularly festive occasion, 
If you manage to sneak away from all of the nightlife and are looking for a place to eat, there are a number of fme establish­ments right on campus. The Hetzel Union Building (the PSU version of LaFortune) houses a deli, pizza shop, and cafeteria which offers breakfast, lunch and dinner until 6:30 pm on Friday. Although the food court is not open on the weekend, the HUB is the place to go if you need any other information about events or facilities on campus. 
The University Creamery, in the Borland Laboratory, offers a variety of snacks and sandwiches, and is open from 7:30 am to 
5:30 pm Saturday, and 10 am to 5:30 pm Sunday. For more elegant dining there is the Nittany Lion Inn (comparable to the Morris Inn in price and atmosphere) which is open until 8 pm Saturday and Sunday for breakfast, lunch and dinner. 
There are also countless fast food places on the outskirts of campus which are available for your eating pleasure. 
As far as student centers are concerned, the Hetzel Union Building is the primary place to go if you're looking for art ex­hibits, recreational facilities, lounge areas or general information. · 
For parking information, which is essential because it's going to be a zoo this weekend, stop at one of the traffic desks located near all of the entrances to campus. They will be able to direct you to visitor parking or to the tailgate area. 



How do catchers in the rye save the children? 
10-9 Mon-Sat
277-8338 
11-7 Sunday 
4 COs OR 4 CASSETIES 46TRACKS
1131 Edison Rd NEARLY sHouRs oF Mus1c 
PLUS A 34 PAGE BOOKLET 
VISIT TRACKS ~\ND SEE WHAT YOU'VE BEEN MISSING!! 
Crosby Stills & Nash -BOX SET Yes -Yes Years -BOX SET 
Eric Clapton -24 Nights ­Neil Young-Weld-Paul Simon -Central Park ­INXS -Live Baby Live -Fourplay -S/T ­John Lee Hooker -Mr. Lucky ­



-AREAS LARGEST SELECilON of CDS -IMPORTS -BLANKTAPEALWAYSON SALE: 
MAXELL, TDK, DENNON 
Last weekend, I met an N.D. grad of the early 70s, whom I will call John Doe 
John has Aids. 
My encounter with him brought the AIDS-crisis close to home for me. 
I've mourned for a number of people, now dead from AIDS, a few of them priests. But John is a Domer whom I watched grow up. As a student, he was a campus leader; as an active alumnus, he's a member of the Sorin Society. 
After he was diagnosed, he came to the campus to say goodbye to the place. Father Hesburgh said a private Mass for John, his mother, and sister, and afterwards hosted them to dinner. When John asked to receive the Sacrament of the Sick. the archbishop of his town came to John's home and anointed him. 
This doesn't mean that John is entitled to be treated as a 
v.i.p. The truth is that the Catholic clergy tend to be very caring in their ministry to peo­ple afflicted with AIDS. 
Ten days ago, I would almost have sworn that .. Magic" Johnson was a brand of floor wax. Then he emerged on prime time television as the prophet to whom we should pay undivided attention; and Mother Teresa, contracting AIDS, wouldn't be as respected as a guide to the perplexed. Magic Johnson, teaching us responsi­ble sex, will advocate condoms for use as a safety net, in line with former Surgeon-General Koop's campaign for the use and distribution of condoms among sexual activists at risk of being infected. 
' 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 


like to persuade him to remain grounded, but failing to do this, it's obvious that the sea is big, and his boat is small. Should I tell him to abandon ship, and swim for the shore, and hope not to meet sharks? 
Remember Catcher in the ~ when Holden Caufield says, "I keep picturing all these little kids pla)ing some game in this big field of rye ... Nobody's around-nobody big, I mean-except me. And I'm standing on the edge of some crazy clitT. What I have to do, I have to catch everybody if they start to go over the cliff-I mean if they're running and they don't look where they are going I have to come out from somewhere and catch them. That's all I'd do all day. I'd just be the catcher in the rye ... that's the only thing I'd really like to be." 
What Holden wants to do is save the children from the lost childhood, which is endangered as soon as they start worrying about the obscene graffiti they find scribbled in unexpected places. Magic Johnson, John O'Connor, and Holden Caufield have this in common, though it may be sentimental to say so: each in his own way wants to be a catcher in the rye. 
How do you save the chil­dren? As sexual beings, few of us have our houses in order. If homosexuality is a disorder, so is masturbation. How do we save ourselves? I remember the freshman lad who told me he had spent Christmas waiting to hear from his doctor if he was sick with AIDS. "Where would you have been infected with AIDS? I asked. In the gay bars of Chicago, he said, which he used to visit on weekends. Older gays, apparently, rely on their young partner's innocence, in­stead of condoms, to save them from risk. But who was there to save the child? 
John said that it was nobody's fault that he turned out gay. There was no gay group on campus when he was a student, and he wasn't acquainted with other gay students, though there were a number here...1 didn't finally settle on my sexual identity," he said, "until I was twenty-seven" 
I said, "Do you have any re­grets?" He started to answer, "Well, in hindsight. of course," but after reflection he decided: "I couldn't have had a better life. I don't fear dying. My sad time will come when I can no longer take care of myself." He is making the Center of Social Concerns the beneficiary of a couple of insurance policies. The money will be spent on projects helping children af­flicted with AIDS. I think that he feels if he can help the children, his dying young will not be in vain. 
I watched John saying good night to his mother. Their faces, seen in profile, could not have been more than a few inches· apart, as her eyes kept searching his wasted features. 
I thought, these could be the faces on a new Pieta. If Mestrovic were alive, he could carve them in marble and put them in Sacred Heart Church, as a companion piece to the Prodigal Son, and to the statue of the Sorrowful Mother receiv­ing Christ's body, taken down from the cross. 

In this scenario, it appears that once again, the villain of the piece will be the Catholic Church. Back in 1968, Pope Paul VI was advised that the use of contraceptions would. reduce the abortion rate and the number of unwanted teen­age pregnancies and would help eliminate the transmission of social diseases, as well as reduce the marital tensions that lead to divorce. The Pope's response was, "I don't believe you," and wrote the encyclical Humane~. which opposes artificial contraception. 
In the wake of the encyclical came the sexual revolution, when the condom was king and the Pill was its helpmeet; and the fruit of it all in America was Roe v. Wade, herpes and other epidemics, and an un­precedented number of preg­nancies and failed marriages. 
A couple of years ago. Cardinal O'Connor was in Rome, attending an AIDS con­ference, and sloganeering in support of the tradition. His "Good morals are good medicine" is a useful insight, if you're resigned to remaining celibate. 
Two years ago, homosexuals, whom the Pope couldn't have had in mind when he wrote Humane vitae, stormed St. Patrick's while Mass was going on, tossing condoms on the altar. The protest was shabby and regrettable; but it was a 
~ 

mere tempest in a teapot compared to the gotterdammerung that could be in the offing, if St. Patrick is soon again bashed by gays. 
John O'Connor has lovely ways of being the cardinal in Sin City, where he goes on duty in the hospices, emptying bed­pans for AIDS patient. Unfortunately, he goes out of his way to antagonize a minority group, struggling against death and disease that is decimating them. He is perceived as the enemy working to deprive them of the life offered to them by the Surgeon-General as one of their civil rights. Why does he think that gays should agree that "Father knows better," when he tells the officials who are funding the gravy train on which the condoms will be de­livered that, "Good morals make good medicine," and the only medicine that the Church can allow? No couple practising birth control believes that. 
Condoms as a health measure or as a means of contraception can be a leaky sieve, I'm told; So, I say to hell with them. But, what if I were told by a teenager, who feels irresistibly tempted to experiment sexually, that he relies on a condom for protection? 
Should I trust my own con­science, or the consciences of prelates, if he asks me what I think about his flying high without a parachute. Ideally, I'd 


The Obs8Mif accepts clasdieds f!1WKY busine&s day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m at the Notre Dame office, 314LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m at 309 Haggar Cohge 
Center. Deadline lor next-day dasdieds is 3p.m. All classified& must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cems per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds ­
K.T. MEANEY­BEDROOM FOR RENT IN A HOME ADOPTION: Proud parents of RIDE NEEDED FOR Congratulations to COLLEEN RYAN HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! 
NOTICES 

$200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES, adopted toddler eager to find THANKSGIVING on becoming a real roommate!! I MISS YOUR SMILING FACE­LAUNDRY, ETC. newborn to join our family. Our warm CALL PAUL ROY 232-2794. and stable home offers security, lots ARE YOU DRIVING TO THE p.s. What are you wearing? PEGGY 
TYPING AVAILABLE 

of adoring relatives and a life full of NO .JERSEY /NYCIL.I. AREA? IF P.S. DON'T YOU WONDER HOW I 287-4082 
love. Please call Barb and Dave SO, I WILL PAY $$AND SPLIT KNEW IT WAS YOUR BIRTHDAY FURNISHED APT. NEAR NO collect 513-751·7077. DRIVING. WILL LEAVE lUES OR ON SATURDAY????? COZV 2 BDRM. $285 WED. Watch out for the "Rookie." DEP. REF. 288-7207. PLEASE CALL X3414 Naughton. She's gonna' be out with 
Buy and Sell used books 

Who left the Superlog in a vengance this weekend! Pandora 's Books-newbooks and 
Ask one of

the fourth stall? WOW! the NY Times too!! 3 BDRM. HOUSE $390 + HAPPY BIRTHDAY KTIIII corner of NO ave and Howard UTILITIES. AVAILABLE NOW! 900 
the 3 million 

233-234211 0-5:30 everyday BLOCK OF E. LASALLE. 271-0373. ATIENTION WASH. D.C. AREA Jim Maher: STUDENTS!!! Sign-ups for 
Americans 

X-mas bus are 8-9p.m. Nov. 19 in YUCK FOOl! 
FOR SALE
NOTRE DAME VIDEO basement Lafortune. Cost­SATURDAY NIGHT $551wayt$110 rt. Nov. 16 9:30-1 :30 
whdve 

NEW RELEASES Theodore's Presents ... Silence of the Lambs A Beautiful78 VW Van, from Hi Minnene-­
survived 

The Doors California, Great Condition ... Mother Hystttrical! ••• D.J. ZAv••• ididn't forget you this time !I Robin Hood $2300 (616) 684-7203 Frosh needs ride to Pin Area. 
cancer,

Backdraft Call x1527 Damian Dance to the sounds of: HIPHOP Yo whars up 4B Knott Quad-the 7 DAYS A WEEK-(4-11p.m.) Want to FLY to the N.Y.C. area for INDUSTRIAL SYR's gonna be kickin'l!l 
if the money

BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE Thanksgiving Break? Need a ride to Holland, Ml or vicinity HOUSE I have a CHEAP round-trip plane this Fri. 
+ spent on 
ticket for sale. Call Jen 284-4351 One time only: NEED RIDE TO ATLANTA II II Spee-Dee Word processing Call MIKE@ X3263. A FLASHBACK TO THE GOLDEN FOR XMAS BREAK-WILL HELP 
research

237-1949 AGE OF 1970'S DISCO! WITH GAS AND DRIVING Ladies of 6B: See Ya' there!!! CALL SHONDA X4997 KNOLLWOOD RANCH! Quality thru· We're going to be SYRing. 
is worth it. 

Fast, Professional Typing out, many extras! Over 2000 sq. ft.! The only question is who's going to 277-7406 Call Rodger Pend!, Cressy & Everett be kissing porcelain first. It's good to SA PE WOMEN TOMII!!!I!I 233·6141. know that $90 won't go down the CALL JEANNE ABOUT BLACK 
Weare 

drain HAVE DRESSES. WILL PARTY. IMAGES STORYI!I!!III 
LOST AND FOUND . .
(then again, it probably will -get it?) PE's formal is cancelled. so, that ASAP NEW TYPEWRITER 40% OFF Just don't let the Dillon connection leaves a posse of voluptuous girls 
w1nrung.

271-0868. go home just looKing for a good time. 
Lost: Gold Coin Ring 
"empty-handed". Top ten reasons to ask us to the hey Jason 0!!!!!!!1111111111111111111111111!!!11 
Great Sentimental Value Grace formal instead of other Where??????????????????????? 
If found please call Lisa 
COMPUTER, IBM COMPATIBLE. skanks: In 416 of Alumni ............................. .. 
atx4838 
*8086 running at 8 mhz. Happy 20th Birthday 10. We're cute freshmen And he's got a what???????????? 'AMERICAN *1 Floppy and one 20 meg. H.D. K.T. MEANEY (11/16) 9. We don't have big hair CRCANCER Don't have too much English Cider 8. We're fun '.SOCIETY~
Lost, one green, blue and gold 
*Amber Screen "3.2 DOS included. or Russian Vodka!! 7. We're breathing London Fog down jacket lost at the 
$450. I miss you tons and wish you were 6. We like good music Heidi Laura-you WILL be there on Linebacker. Call Emily at x3725, no 
239-7349 or 255-7381 here! 5. We all know Lou. (Not in the November 23 -or else ............. . 
Do something

questions asked. 
Hope customs doesn't destroy your biblical sense.) · present! Have a great day 4. We're the girls next door. 
for nothing. 

0/W Plane ticket,D.C. to O'Hare Love, your favorite sister (You don't have to take a bus to pickLOST: ONE PAIR BLACK LEATHER 
1/15192 (date negotiable) $80. Call us up ... but you may have to take an Ed Ting Vee-good goin' on the 
And you'll get

GLOVES SOMEPLACE ON 
JacKie elevator.) MCAT's!lll!!!ll!l!! !1!!1!111111!!1! 
CAMPUS. FINDER CALL 
283-4350. To MARK &BRIAN 3. We have good personalities 
ever}thing.
FR. SEAMUS AT 283-3411. 

2. The dogbook is overrated You are GREAT!! 1. All the girls like us and we Our weekends wouldn't be the same make our own dothes. Jim -thanks for the ice cream breal 
LOST: MEN'S GOLD SEIKO 
TICKETS +American
with out you! • I lik yu too .... WATCH WITH BLACK FACE AFTER 
Call Heather at X2672 or leave a 
Red Cross

TENN. GAME. IF FOUND CALL 
LOOKING FOR PENN ST. TICKETS -Shannon & Tara message. SOA SUSAN@ 239-7505. 
call x2447 Jim -also, definitely go PLS ......... . St. Mary's Women LOST: A GOLD BRACELET OF 
CHEAP! CHEAP! CHEAP! Tired of ND bands that forget you They censored our posters but PLS,uh,huh,uh,huh GREAT SENTIMENTAL 
exist? Come see the they can't stop the show! VALUE-AROUND THE 
Selling plane tickets to Hawaii for METHA-TONES THE METHA-TONES JACC OR WASHINGTON 
Thanksgiving Fri. Nov. 15 Club 23 CLUB 23 Fri. Nov 15 HALL PLEASE CALL 
Call x3457 Support both free speech and BUCKY­1456 
Lou & the Velvets I'm looking forward to a great weekend!!!!!!!! 
SEAN QUINN IS A STUD. LOST-Gold chain with diamond K. If PERSONAL BRETT BAUER IS GOOOOOD. You are the world's greatest found, please return to Kirsten at 
A.J. IS SOOOOOO DUMB. Rider needed to Conn. for boyfriend AND .... 
X3352, 
Thanksgiving who can help drive and I'll love you forever! 
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. HAPPY BIRTHDAY A.J. 1111 stick· Barb 284·5099 I'm sorry I've been so crabby over the past few weeks-1'11 work on my EARN $%000. temper!Ill! 
+

lost: Fuji camera on Halloween in 
I killed the lizard king ............ Lando The toilet doogles came, they saw, Love ... .,..,.r. SPRING BREAK parking lot of either Club 23 or the they escaped. Oh no! DOCTOR LOVE, THE COUNCIL IS PRINCESS 
North America's #1 Student Tour Sheila #2547. 
Commons. If found please call ........................ PLANNING AN ABDUCTION OF 
Operator seeking motivated students, organizations, 

Monica Eigelberger is a ho. THE INFAMOUS SWARTHY KATH &CRICKY­1raternities
Prayer to the Holy Spirit BERRY. HER SWARTHY VOCALS LET'S GO OUT AND and sororities as campus
Holy Spirit, you who makes me see SHALL BE EXTERMINATED. PARTY REAL SOONIII
WANTED 

representatives promoting Cancun Hi, sweetheart! Christmas is the way to reach my ideal. I miss you two a tonllllll1 
Syosset-everything and you who shows me 
Bahamas, Day1ona and Panama soon! LUV 
City! 

Can't wait to go skiing! -What? You who gives me the Divine Gift to FR. CAREY-PEG-EYE!IIIII ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­


Don't forgive and forget the wrong that is fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. forget Arlo Guthrie on Thanksgiving. done to me, I in this dialogue want to HAVE AN EXCELLENT WEEKEND! P.S. Where the holy Hannah are we Free transportation! Room & Board! KEEP AN EYE ON LUNCHMEAT, going to live next year??? 
I love you and miss you. Smoosh thank you for everything and to Over 8,000 openings. No 
Smoosh confirm once more that I never want MAYONNAISE MYRTER, CRAZY experience necessary. MALE or 
Vienna waits for you. to be separated from you or my PETE, AND MR.MIKEIIIII Angel. .. FEMALE. For employment program 
loved ones in your perpetual glory. call Student Employment Services at 
Amen. I PROMISED A PERSONAL, SO Crappy?l?ll 1·206-545-4155 ext. 118. 
stronger than burt Thank you for your love toward me HERE IT IS. I HOPE YOU FIND IT, and my loved ones. Persons must READ IT, AND ENJOY ALL OF THE I didn't know you were feeling pray this prayer three consecutive FAME THAT COMES WITH A 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. days without asking your wish. CLASSIFIED IN THE CRAPPY. Gymnastic instructor to teach young 
OBSERVER!!!!! children in South Bend area. Must 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me for It will be granted, no matter how Why did't you say something? enjoy working with children. Must 
a quote 9:30-6:00, difficult it may be. Promise to DILLON HALL RULES, AND SO also have your own transportation. 
289-1993. Office near campus. publish this dialog as soon as your DOES THE RECTOR OF DILLONIII Gosh, I feel like a heel. Will train, flexible hours. Send 
favor has been granted. resume to: GO BIG RED!!! I hope this weekend cures you. BRYSON STAPLES Happy Birthday Courtney !II! PEGGY C. C/O DAYS INN 
hey nil LOVE­52757 U.S. 31 NORTH· ROOM 208 Love, SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 The fourth floor BUSTER Adoption -a warm and caring couple wants to open our hearts & home to WARRIORS OF THE WELL BUILT PART-TIME CLEAN-UP HELP 
--TOM WESTRICK--your baby. CHARRIOT-Mr. and Mrs. Braasch-NEEDED AT BRIDGET'S $6/HR. 
--TOM WESTRICK-­APPLY WED. THRU SAT. AT 
__• -TOM WESTRICK--You Call Marty or Nancy collect YOU LEFT WITHOUT MEl HAVE Thank you for a great 
7:30 PM OR CALL 271·0373. weenie in INNSBRUCK (317) 842-8312. FUN AT PENN ST. (JERKS). NO tailgater last weekend IIIIIII NO MINORS. 
Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock DEVIOUS DETOURS FOR YOU I wish you well in that land of easy Thank you also for the 
7 NIGHTS 

"A". -K delicious food-It is much 
FORT LAUDERDAL £ 
7 NIGHTS

CHICKS NEED RIDE 
May your skiing ever be in those ADOPTION appreciated!!!! REDHOTC.P. 
HILTON HEAD ISLJ.,ND

wonderful mounds of Austrian Happy, loving couple wishes to raise 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

KALAMAZOO NOV 20 mountains. your white newborn with warmth and PEGGY C. 
MUSTANC ISLAND i

#2900 love. ANN PUETZ IS 22. ANN PUETZ IS 
PORT ARANSAS 
S AND 7 NIGHTS

--TOM Can provide financial security and 22. ANN PUETZ IS 22. ANN 11th Annual
WESTRICK TOM education. Medical/legal expenses PUETZ IS 22.
FOR RENT 
Celebration!

WESTRICK TOM paid. ANN PUETZ IS 22. WHO THE HECK IS THIS LIZARD TOLL FREE INFORMAT•ON I RISittVATIONI
WESTRICK---Please answer our prayers by KING?????????? calling Maureen & Jim.. Please answer-It was cute at first 1·800·3 21·5911 The purple study lounge must die. but it is cute no longerllllll 
~~ 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHA!II!I! Call 1-800-456-2656. DIE! DIE! DIE I 
---~ 

219-291-7153 

~---------------------------------~--------------~--------------~~--~~------------~------~----------~~--~ 
SCOREBOARD
page 16 Friday, November 15, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
AUanlle  Dlviaion  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10 Streak  
Philadelphia  5  2  .714  5-2  Won5  
Miami  3  2  .600  1  3-2  Won 1  
New York  4  3  .571  1  4-3  Lost!  
Orlando  4  3  .571  1  4-3  Lost 1  
Boston  4  4  .500  1 1/2  4-4  Won2  
Washington  3  5  .375  21/2  3-5  Won 1  
New Jersey  1  5  .167  3 1/2  1-5  Lost 5  
Central Division  
Chicago  6  2  .750  6-2  Won5  
Atlanta  4  3  .571  1 1/2  4-3  Lost!  
Detroit  4  3  .571  1 1/2  4-3  Lost 2  
Milwaukee  4  4  .500  2  4-4  Lost 2  
Cleveland  3  4  .429  21/2  3-4  Won2  
Indiana  3  5  .375  3  3-5  Won 1  
Charlotte  1  7  .125  5  1-7  Lost 4  
WESTERN  CONFERENCE  
Midweat  Divialon  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10 Streak  
Houston San Antonio  5 5  1,  .833 .833  5-1 5-1  Won4 Won3  
Utah  4  3  .571  1 1/2  4-3  Won3  
Denver  3  3  .500  2  3-3  Lost2  
Dallas  2  6  .250  4  2-6  Won 1  
Minnesota  1  5  .167  4  1-5  Lost2  
Pacific  Dlvlalon  
Golden State  6  2  .750  6-2  Lost 1  
Portland  4  3  .571  1 1/2  4-3  Won3  
LA Clippers  5  4  .556  1 1/2  5-4  Lost 2  
LA Lakers  3  3  .500  2  3-3  Won2  
Seattle  3  3  .500  2  3-3  Lost 1  
Phoenix  3  5  .375  3  3-5  Lost3  
Sacramento  3  5  .375  3  3-5  Won 1  
Thuraday'a  Game•  

Cleveland 115, Seanle 109, OT Dallas 95, LA Clippers 88 LA Laker& 115, Golden State 1 12 Sacramento 98, Atlanta 96 Frlday'a Gamea 
Phllade~la at Boston, 7:30p.m. 
Washington at New Jersey, 7:30p.m. 
Charlotte at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
Seattle at Indiana, 7:30p.m. 
Utah at Detro-. 8 p.m. 
Portland at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
Milwaukee at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
Atlanta at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. 
Houston at LA Lakers. 10:30 p.m. 
NBA BOXES 
LA LAKERS (115) 
Perki,. 4-8 2-310, Wonhy 9-19 3-5 21, Carr¢et1 4-8 1-2 9, Scott 4-6 0-0 8, Threatt 7-t 3 5­6 21, Green 1-2 3-4 5, Teagle 7-14 4-5 18, Divac 7­9 5-8 19, Smith 1-4 2-2 4. Totals 44-83 25-35 115. GOLDEN STATE (112) 
Hil 2-4 0-0 4, MuiHn 14-22 o-o 28, Alexander 5-6 1-t 11, Hardaway 9-20 7-8 26, Owens 3-8 2-2 8, Marciullonls 8-15 2-6 18, Higgins 2-6 2-2 6, Lister 1-2 1-3 3, Askew 4-8 0-0 8, Elie 0-0 0-0 0, Toben 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 48-93 15-22 t 12. LA Lakers 32 23 31 29-115 Golden State 28 31 32 21-112 
3-Point goals-LA Lal<ers 2-6 (Threatt 2-4, Perkins o-1, Scott 0-1), Golden State 1-9 (Hardaway 1-4, Higgins 0-1, MuiNn 0-4). Fouled out-None. Rebounds--LA Laker& 49 (Perki,_ 10), Golden State 52 (MuAin 9). Assilts-LA Lakers 20 (Threatt 8), Golden State 29 (Hardaway 14). Total fouls-LA Laker& 21, Golden State 28. Technical&-Goiden· State coach Nelson, Hardaway. A-15,025. 
ATLANTA (M) 
Wil<lns 10-22 7-9 28, Wills 4-7 3-3 11, Koncak 2­7 2-4 e. Robl,.on 6-14 2·7 14, Augmon 4-11 ()..2 8, Graham 4-6 2-4 10, Rasmussen 3-9 0-0 6, Vokov 4-7 0-0 9, Cheeks 1·6 2-2 4. Totals 38-89 18-31 96. SACRAMENTO (ta) 
Simmons 6-12 3-4 15, Tisdale 6-10 3-6 15, Causwen 4-4 4-6 12, Webb 8-19 2-218, Richmond 11-221-2 25, Les Q-2 0-0 0, Bonner 3-6 1-4 7, Schintzius 2-5 1-1 5, Hopson 0-0 1-4 1, Brown 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 40-80 16-29 98. Atlanta 28 23 22 23-96 Sacramento 27 26 22 23-98 
3-Point goai&-AI.Ianta 2-6 (Volkov 1-2. Wilkins 1· 3, Robinson 0-1), Sacramento 2-5 (Richmond 2-3, Webb 0-1, Lea 0-t). Fouled out-None. ­Rebounds-Atlanta 59 (Wills 12), Sacramento 58 (Causwell9). Assists-Atlanta 16 (Wilkins, Koncak, Augmon 3), Sacramento 25 (Richmond 8). Total foui&-Atlanta 20, Sacramento 20. Technieals­Atlanta llegal defense, Wills, Webb. A-17.014. 


• .. •LOST. • • 
. ,. 
GREED • • • 

c:~;.:'. MACBETH 
NBA LEADERS 

NBA Leadera  
Scoring  
G  FG  FT  Pta·  Avg  
Jordan, Chi.  8  105  48  264  33.0  
K. Malone, Utah  7  78  53  209  29.9  
Wilkins, Atl.  6  63  44  173  28.8  
Adams, Wash.  8  76  54  225  28.1  
Munin, G.S.  7  77  31  187  26.7  
Robinson, S.A.  6  59  36  154  25.7  
Hardaway, G.S.  7  61  32  168  24.0  
BartUey, Phi.  7  58  47  165  23.6  
Worthy, LAL  5  45  22  115  23.0  
Bird, Boa.  8  73  30  180  22.5  
Ewing, N.Y.  7  66  25  157  22.4  
Scolt, Ort.  7  60  27  156  22.3  
Hawkins, Phil.  7  49  45  155  22.1  
Miner, Ind.  8  55  54  174  21.8  
Olajuwon, Hou.  6  54  21  129  21.5  
Blackman, Dal.  7  60  26  149  21.3  
Hornacek, Phoe.  8  69  24  170  21.3  
Daugherty, Ciev.  6  49  29  127  21.2  
McKey, Sea.  5  38  24  103  20.6  
Anderson, Orl.  7  55  30  142  20.3  
Field Goal Percentage  
FG  FGA  Pet  
Hil, G.S.  29  40  .725  
Barkley, PhM.  58  83  .699  
Cage, Sea.  25  39  .641  
Gilliam, Phil.  43  68  .632  
Jordan, Chi.  105  169  .621  
Williams, Port.  27  44  .614  
Ewing, N.Y.  66  108  .611  
Grant, Chi.  42  69  .609  
Daugherty, Clev.  49  82  .598  
Robinson, S.A.  59  100  .590  
Rebounding  
G  Off  Def  Tot  Avg  
Mutorrtlo, Den.  6  36  54  90  15.0  
Barkley, Phi.  7  34  69  103  14.7  
Wims, AtL  6  27  60  87  14.5  
Olajuwon, Hou.  6  26  60  86  14.3  
Cage, Sea.  5  29  39  68  13.6  
Ellison, Wash.  8  40  64  104  13.0  
Rodman, Det.  7  37  53  90  12.9  
Seikaly, Mia.  5  21  39  60  12.0  
Coleman, N.J.  6  29  41  70  11.7  
Benjamin, Sea.  5  13  42  55  11.0  
SEAITLE (108)  

cage 5-10 2-4 12, McKey 8-15 3-3 20, Benjamin 7-19 2·316, Pierce 10-18 8-8 29, Payton 5-7 1-2 11, Johnson 5-10 3-4 13, Barros 3-8 0-0 7, King().. 0 0-0 0, Dailey 0-1 1·2 1, Kofoed 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 43-86 20-26 109. CLEVELAND (115) 
Nance 10-18 3-4 23, Bennett 2-4 2-2 6, Daugherty 7-13 9-10 23, Ehlo 7-13 3-4 17, Price 6­9 0-0 14, Battle 2-5 0-0 4, Williams 1-7 8-10 10, Brandon 6-14 2-2 14, Kerr 2-4 0-0 4.Totals 43-87 27-32 115. Seattle 27 21 26 27 8-109 Cleveland 26 22 35 18 14-115 
3-Polnt goals-Seattle 3-7 (McKey 1-2, Pierce 1· 2, Barroe 1-2, Johnson 0-1), Cleveland 2-6 (Price 2-4, Ehlo 0-1, Kerr().. 1 ). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Seattle 45 (Cage 10), Cleveland 53 (Williams 13). Assists-seattle 28 (Payton 12), Cleveland 28 (Price 10). Total fouls-Seattle 28, Cleveland 20. Technical-Williams. A-10,838. 
LA CUPPERS (81) 
Manning 8-18 11-13 27, Vaught 6-17 2-2 15, Polynice 4-7 6-7 14, R.Hcuper 2-15 0-0 4, Grant 2-4 2-2 6, Perry 0-2 0-0 0, Edwards 7-10 4-4 18, Brown 
2-7 0-24, Copeland 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 31-80 25-30 
88. 
DALLAS (85) 
McCray 2-9 6-8 10, T.Davis 1-4 4-8 6, Donaldson 2-6 0-04, D.Harper 7-15 2-216, Blackman 10-18 10-10 30, Williams 2-9 2-4 6, Lever 7-15 5-6 19, D.Smith 1-5 0-0 2, White 1-3 0-2 2, B.Davis 0-0 0-0 
O.Totals 33-84 29-40 95. LA Clippers 23 20 20 25-88 
Dallas 22 22 23 28-95 

3-Point goals-LA Clippers 1-8 (Vaught 1-1, Perry 0-1, Brown 0-1, R.Harper 0-5), Dallas 0-3 (McCray 0-1, D.Harper 0-1, Lever 0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-LA Clippers 49 (Vaught 11), Danas 67 (T.Davis, Wiliams 12). Assists-LA Clippers 24 (Grant 10), Dallas 13 (D.Harper 3). Total foula-LA Clippers 28, Dallas 19. A-14,168. 
East Carolina VI. Nonh CaroNna Stale, 11:30 a.m. (ESPN) Hall of Fame Bowl 
AtTa~Fia. 
Syracuse 1111. Ohio State, 1 p.m. {NBC) Cltrua Bowl At Orlando. F Ia. California VI. Clemson (ACC winner). 1:30 p.m. (ABC) CoHon Bowl At Danas Texas A&M (SWC winner) vs. Florida State(~ II loses to Miami) or Nebraska, Colorado or Oklahoma (Big Eight runnerup), 1:30 p.m. (CBS) Fieata Bowl At Tef11)8, Ariz. Penn State vs. Tennessee. 4:30p.m. (NBC) Roae Bowl At Pasadena, Calif. Washington (Pac-10 winner) VB. Michigan (Big Ten winner), 5 p.m. (ABC) Orange Bowl AI. Miami Miami-Florida State winner vs. Colorado or Nebraska (Big Eight winner), 8 p.m. (NBC) Sugar Bowl At New Orleans Notre Dame VI. Florida (SEC winner), 8:20 p.m. (ABC) 
Seniors come help plan the best month of the year. Sign up for the Senior Month Committee in Student Activities Office by Wednesday, Nov. 20th 
~------------------------------------------------. 
Retnington Court 
' 
-
/ 


COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
EAST Nyack 111, St.Jospeh's, N.Y. 74 
SOUTH Bethel88, Transylvania B6 North Georgia 78, Piedmont 58 
MIDWEST Bethany 84, Panhandle St. 77 NW Oklahoma 78, Tabor 75, OT 
SOUTHWEST SW Oklahoma 65, Tarleton St. 45 
FAR WEST Idaho 72. Simon Fraser 70 
EXHIBITION Arizona St. 120, Melbourne-Southside 95 Arkansas St. 89, Hoiland 82 Brigham Young 111, Panionios 72 Canisius 93, St. Chatharlnes, Ontario 80 
E. Kentucky 78, Kentucky Crusaders 56 Georgia Tech 76, Athletes In Action 74 Iowa St. 91, Ukrainian Nationals 72 Kentucky 112, Soviet National 92 Lafayene Hustlers 89, Indiana St. 84 Latvia Russian National Team 87, Fresno St. 73 Marathon Oil 69, Loyola, Ill. 57 Merfl)his St. 83, High Five America 70 Michigan 84, Cuba 63 Middle Tenn. 87, Honved Hungary 64 Morehead St. 113, Fort Carrpbeil 80 
N. Carolina St 109, Australian All-Stars 1oo Norway 76, Mississippi College 68 Oklahoma St. 88, Lithuania Select 68 Rhode Island 105, Lithuania National Team 84 St. Francis, N.Y. 96, Ammerud, Norway 69 St. Petersburg AAU 91, The Citadel87 Salem St. 75, L~huanlan Zhalgiris 74 Samara Club of the Ukraine 79, East Carolina 72 South Florida 93, A.C. Sporting of Greece 56 Texas Tech 97, Fon Hood 58 Tulane 98, Arkansas Express 70 Valdosta St. 81, Soviet Ail-Stars 76 Villanova 65, Canada 57 

BOWL GAMES 
Saturday, Dec. 14 California Bowl At Fresno, CaJW. Bowling Gre«l VI. Fresno State or San Joee State (Big West winner), 4 p.m. (SportsChannel) 
Wednesday, Dec. 25 Aloha Bowl At Honolulu Stanford (with one more win) VB. Georgia Tech or Pi!tsburgh, 33> p.m. (ABC) 
Saturday, Dec. 28 Bloekbuater Bowl AI. Miami Alabama VI. Miami (H It 1011811 to FSU), Colorado or Nebraska, 9 p.m. (CBS) 
Sunday,Dec:.29 Independence Bowl At Shreveport, La. Arkansas (wkh one more win) VB. Indiana, Nonh Carolina State or West Virginia, 2:30p.m. (ABC) Liberty Bowl At Mel'fllhls, Tenn. Air Force VB. Mississippi-Mississippi Stale winner, 8 p.m. (ESPN) Gator Bowl At Jacksonville, Fla. Oklahoma va. Virginia, 8 p.m. (TBS) 
Monday, Dec. 30 Holiday Bowt AI. San Diegel owas. BYU-San Diego State winner {WAC winner), 8 p.m. (ESPN) Freedom Bowl At Anaheim, CaJW. Tulsa vs. BYU-Satl Diego State loser, 9 p.m. (Ray com) Tuesday, Dec. 31 John Hancock Bo.rt AI. El Paso, Texas linois VB. UCLA, 2:30 p.m. (CBS) Copper Bowl At Tucson, Ariz. Baylor liB. Indiana or North Carolina State, 8 p.m. (WTBS) 
VVednesday,Jan. 1 Peach Bowl At Al.lanta 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
SEAffiE MARINERS-Named Russ Nixon 
bench coach. 
National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Named Larry Himes executive vice president of baseball operations, and Jim Frey senior vice president. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Purchased the contrads ol Chris Hancock, pitcher, from Phoenix ol the Pacific Coast League, and John Patterson, second baseman, and Steve Hosey, outfielder, from Shreveport of the Texas League. Carolina League 
PRINCE WILLIAM CANNONS-Named Beth Smyth director ol regional marketing and Michael Cook director of telemarketing and merchandising. 
BASKETBALL 
National Basketball Association 
NEW YORK KNICKS-Waived Carfton McKinney, forward-guard. Signed Kennard Winchester, guard. Global Basketball Association 
MID-MICHIGAN GREAT LAKERS-Signed Ronnie Thoffl)klns, lroward. Named Mke Butterfield director of game day operations and Joel Scott radio play-by-play man. 
RALEIGH BULLFROGS-Released Lawrence Walden, guard, and Levi Hunter, center. 
FOOTBALL National Football League 
NFL-Suspended Terry Long, Pittsburgh guard, without pay for four weeks for violating the league's policy on anabolic steroids and related slbstances. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Recalled Danny Lorenz, goaltender, from the capital Diltrict ol the American Hockey League. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Returned Jail Bloerrberg, def~. to Binghamton ol the American Hockey League. 

Radios on· 
sale 179.91 

A. Grundlg Yacllt Bot 230 pocket size wol1d bald radio is so small it fits in your hand. Large multi-function LCD with world time card shows the names of 43 cities with their time and time zones. Built-in clock has an alarm, sleep timer and operates on standard or military time. Has 13 shortwave bands plus AMIFM reception. 8lh 1'Wx4 "Hxl% "D. Reg. 219.95. 
USE YOUR HUDSON'S SHOPPING CARD, VISAf MASTERCARDf DISCOVER~ CARD OR THE AMERICAN EXPRESS~ CARD. HUDSON'S IS OPEN MON.-SAT. 10-9, SUN. 12-6 •
• 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
--~---~----------------~--~---.-~~-----.----------------------~... 
. -.,-.·1-.-;-,1 t 

page 18 The Observer 
Carroll ousted for using ineligible players 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
Another chapter has been added to the book of scandals surrounding mens' interhall football play this season, and in this instance, the result is a change in the championship match up. 
A committee composed of five hall athletic commissioners and mediated by assistant director of RecSports Rich O'Leary ruled late last night that Carroll Hall had used three ineligible play­ers in their semifinal game against Zahm. The presence of these players left the commit­tee, in its opinion, no choice but to rule last Sunday's game a forfeit in favor of Zahm. 
The ruling places Zahm into 
IH FB 
continued from page 22 
season for Keenan. 
Both defenses are solid all­around, with Joe Mileti and Chris Barnette leading the Knight defense from their linebacking positions. Zahm boasts no real defensive stand­outs, but uses an attacking de­fensive style to minimize its op­ponents' offensive success. 
Both teams are excited about the opportunity to play for the title and the opportunity to play in Notre Dame Stadium. 

"We are looking forward to playing," said Webby. "It's an I exciting opportunity." 
I 
Casey feels his team is excited about the opportunity but will be focused on the game. "We are all excited, but I'm sure we will be prepared for the game," he stated. 
Men 
continued from page 24 
meets, but has three years of District experience under his belt. Last year, he finished in 13th place at the meet. 
Burke is coming off an impressive showing at the MCC meet in which he finished fourth. 
"J.T. Burke is light years better than he was at Georgetown," said Pian e. 
The freshmen have made many improvements since their inauguration to collegiate racing at the Georgetown meet. Cowan and Ruder fmished lOth and 11th respectively at the MCC meet. 
With the format of the District meet, the top three teams advance to the NCAA meet. 
"Our main goal is to rmish in the top three. Whether we finish first or third, the reward 
is  exactly  the  same,"  said  
Pian e.  
Achieving  this  goal  will  

require some solid running from the entire Irish squad. 
"If our front two runners finish in front of the Michigan and Wisconsin's front two runners and our three, four and five runners are near their third, fourth, and ruth runners, then we have a great shot at winning," said Pian e. 
Luckily for the Irish, they have already competed very successfully on the District course-it is the same one used at the Indiana Intercollegiate meet. 
Notre Dame won the meet thanks to strong performances by Coyle and McWilliams who finished one-two. In addition, Ruder finished seventh, Drake finished 14th, and Burke fmished 27th. 
This win gives the Irish a mental edge going into the District meet. 
the championship game against Keenan to be played Sunday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
..It was a unanimous decision by the committee to forfeit the game to Zahm," said O'Leary. "The ineligible players were two Holy Cross College students and one off-campus student." 
The three ineligible players were Stephan Tompkins, Hastings Siegfried, and George Keegan. The latter two are both Holy Cross students who reside in Carroll Hall despite the fact that they are not students at the University. Tompkins is a former Carroll resident now living off campus. 
Zahm's protest of the game came after discovering that Siegfried, a dominating figure for the Carroll squad, was not a student at the University but resides in Carroll. 
..We were hesitant to protest because we didn't want to ap­pear as sore losers," said Zahm quarterback Chris Hammond. "But those players played a major role in the outcome of the game." 
A call was placed by Zahm coach Kevin Casey to RecSports officials on Tuesday suggesting wrongdoing by the Carroll squad. Wednesday, a Carroll roster was made available to Zahm which proved their accu­sation correct. 

Zahm immediately filed a formal protest to the RecSports office in the formal of a letter, asking that the eligibility of Siegfried and two other players be reviewed by RecSports. 
"We held a team vote to see if we should go forward with the protest," said Zahm coach Kevin Casey...At first there were mixed feelings when only Siegfried's eligibility was in question, but after we discov­ered the other two ineligible players, the team voted unani­mously to protest the game." 
The decision by RecSports ends what had been a Cinderella season for the Vermin. Never before had a Rockne division team been the number-one seed in the play­offs, and it marked the first time Carroll, Notre Dame's smallest dorm, had made the playoffs. 
..This is a pretty tough blow to take," said Sullivan, a senior participating in his last inter­hall football season. ..You work so hard to get to play for the championship and then it is taken away." 

Friday, November 15,1991 

for n.f:!wsemp,loy~ts . 

-}:::.={ ---··.:-:(.-------·-:#r -_­

NEW YORK {AP} ...... Bobby Bonilla's pursuit of a new team begins this weekend when th'i tree agent outfielder visits the New York Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Bonilla, who hit .302 last season with 18 homers and 100 RBis for Pittsburgh. will visit Philadelphia on Saturday 
· and New York on Sunday, according to a source familiar the situation, speaking on the condition he not be identified. Dennis Gllbert, Bonilla's agent, would not comment on the specifics of negotiations. However, he. said Thursday that Bonilla"s planning was still in the preliminary stage. "Not much has happened yet" Gilbert said. . · . The outfielder rejected an $18.5 million, four-year offer to re~sign. with the Pirates. It is expected that he will receive a five-year deal worth at least $25 million. Meanwhile, the Mets showed interest in signing pitcher Rick Sutcliffe. who was 6-5..with a 4.10 ERA for the Chicago Cubs. ·.. ''There's probably six;<or 
. eight teams that bave lndi­
: ... --::{:\~\;~~:~;~;~{::-::-j%¥~---­
cated at least a preliminarY  
interest,"  saUl Sutcliffe's  
agent. Barry Axelrod...We'll  ·  
probably be having even more  .  

meaty discussion~ a~,~~· exchanging proposals. · , 
Axelrod also represents firSt' baseman Wally Joyner, who had spent his entire career with California before becoming free. Joyner hit .301 with 21 homers and 96 RBis. 
"The Mets are also inter.. ested in him, but that is a team that Wally has less in· terest in than a number of others," Axelrod said. ~~' 
Mets general manager AI Harazin said he had been talking to agents for a number ofplayers. 
. "I've been in a whole series ol conversations/• Harazin said...To pick anyone o-q,! wou.ld be to give l! dlsprd2 porU.onate attention. ' 
. The New York Yankees are interested in third baseman Steve Buechele. 
..I've been .:;ontacted by eight clubs," said Buechele's agent. Alan Meersand. "And l ha,ven•t spokep. .t.Q· the Oakland A"syet.butlknowtheyneeda third ~aseman.j••w···· .••.. 
/ 

TAIZE EVENING PRAYER 
1\ ~ EI{ VICE (JF ~ C I{I f.J 1-LH< E, c:ANDLELIGHT AND SONG 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1991 7:00-9:00 P.M.. 
REGINA CHAPEL SAINT MARY,S COLLEGE 

PILGRIMAGE OF TRUST ON EARTH 
INFORMATION MEETING 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1991 
1:30 P.M. REGINA CHAPEL 


SAINT MARY,S COLLEGE 
1\ VIDEO EXPL/\1 NINC~ TAIZE "' Pf{AYEf{ IS AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST 
FROM THE C~AMPUS MINISTH.Y OFFICE. 
--~--­
Friday, November 15,1991 The Observer page 19 
Hockey team hosts Kent; Bankoske out for season 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior Lou Zadra skates away from a Wildcat defenseman in last Friday's 7-1 loss to New Hampshire. 
Irish hope to rebound from two losses to New Hampshire 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
A banged-up Notre Dame 
hockey team will attempt to re­
bound from last weekend's 7-1 
and 8-2 losses to nationally­
ranked New Hampshire when it 
takes the ice for two games this 
weekend at the Joyce ACC 
against Kent (formerly Kent 
State). Both games will start at 
7:30p.m. 
Each team is in its final sea­
son as an independent, as they 

are joining the Central 
Collegiate Hockey Association 
next season. 
"Though neither team is one of the premier teams in the country, this is still a very im­portant series," Irish coach Ric Schafer said. "We are both in­dependents, and we both play difficult schedules. These games will weigh heavily when the teams are selected for the NCAA tournament." 
With only seven independents remaining throughout the country, only one receives an invitation to the NCAA's. In de­termining which team gets the at-large bids, one of the factors the selection committee looks at is the amount of success the independents have against one another. 
Last season, the Irish (1-3) won the season series with the Golden Flashes, going 3-0-1 and winning both games at the JACC. However, Kent is return­ing Sam Thornbury, the team's leading scorer last season, and has played well despite its 2-4 record. Earlier this season, the Golden Flashes dropped two close games at top-ranked Maine, losing 5-4 in overtime and 4-2. 
Schafer feels his team is going to have to play better than they did last weekend versus New Hampshire if it is to be successful tonight and tomor­row. 
"Last weekend was disap­pointing, but we learned some lessons," Schafer said. "'We didn't show what kind of team we are. Our power play has been woeful (four goals in 28 attempts on the season), and we need to set our sights higher." 
Despite the problems the Irish had against the Wildcats, Schafer is optimistic about the 
Women 
continued from page 24 
The Irish are pinning their NCAA hopes on their freshman sensations, Eva Flood and Stefanie Jensen. Flood has been Notre Dame's top finisher in five out of its six meets, with Jensen setting the pace in the other. 
upcoming series. 
"We've had a good week of practice, and we put in some new defensive plays," Schafer commented. "We should show some improvements." 
If the Irish are to get back on the winning track, they will have to overcome some crucial injuries to do so. Goaltender Greg Louder, who started all 33 games as a freshman last sea­son, has not played yet this season due to a broken hand, and is not expected back for at least another month. Until then, sophomore Brent Lothrop and junior Carl Picconato will handle the goaltending chores. 
Notre Dame has also lost se­nior center Dave Bankoske, the team's leading scorer for each of the past three seasons, for the remainder of the season. He underwent elbow surgery on Wednesday for an injury suf­fered in the opening weekend of the season. 
Irish uniform. 
"I'm just going to run as well as I possibly can," said the senior from San Diego. "'I want to come out of the meet with no regrets." 
Bradley should have none, as she has led the Irish to a second-place conference finish and a possible NCAA bid-an honorable feat considering the young Irish are a team of the future. 



can28J..J891 
to join or for more info! 
Reserve A Ti'me Slot Tuesday, November 19 4:30 -6:00PM Wednesda_y, November 20 4:00 -6:00 PM 
1st Place Team Wins Dinner At Kentucky Fried Chicken 

-

page 20 The Observer Friday, November 15,1991 
a 
w. a 
Irish swimmers travel to Ball State University 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 

I 
I I Freshmen usually don't play a major role in the success of any team, but that hasn't been the case for the men's and women's swim teams this season. As they prepare for this 
I 
weekend's meet at Ball State, the women boast a 5-1 record, while the men have gotten off 
to a 5-2 start, largely because of the performance of the 
I I) 
freshmen. 
Rookies Meghan Beeler, Jen Dahl, Angie Roby, Cara Garvey and Lorrei Horrenkamp all turned in first-place perfor­

if 
mances for the women in last weekend's 139-64 win over Western Ontario. 
On the men's side, freshman Mike Keeley's led the Irish with first-place finishes in the 200­and 500-meter freestyle events on the way to a 114-91 defeat of Western Ontario. 
"We have a group of really enthusiastic freshmen," com­mented senior co-captain Jim Birmingham. "Keeley has def­initely been a strength in the freestyle." 
This weekend's meet at Ball State will showcase several tal­ented upperclassmen, as well. Junior Tanya Williams took 

,,' first-place in the 1000-meter 'I freestyle and senior Becky Wood finished just behind Dahl
~ , 
' 
in the 200-meter individual medley to help push the women's team past Western Ontario. 
Junior Greg Cornick's first­place finish in the 200-meter individual medley and Birm­ingham's second-place fmishes -~ in the 50-and 100-meter freestyle helped anchor a tough men's team that has proven it­self against some of the nation's top competition. 
"We're finding out that even the best teams have to put to­gether a great effort if they're going to beat us," Birmingham noted. 
The relay teams have also been a constant for both teams in the early part of the season. 
The women's 400-meter med­ley relay team of Dahl, Wood, Christy VanPatten and Shana Stevens captured first-place last week against Western Ontario with a time of 4:03.21. 
Cornick, John Godfrey, Ed Broderick and Chuck Smith won the same event for the men with a time of 3:35.57. A time of 3:12.04 won the 400­yard free relay for the men's team of Birmingham, Smith, Matt Gibbons and Andrew Kiley, while Broderick, Steve Tann, Karl Peterson and Jim Boutrous fmished second. 
Next weekend, the teams travel to Champaign, Ill. for the University of Illinois Dual Meet Extravaganza. 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•Sports briefs are accepted every day except Saturday until 
l ' 
5:00 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please include your name and phone number in case there are any questions concerning your brief. 
) 
1'. 
liThe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ski team will be showing 
II 
Warren Miller's "Born to Ski" on Tuesday, Nov. 19 at 7:00 p.m. 
'_.:I'
~i 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are on sale at the O'Laughlin 
_; 
ticket office and the LaFortune info desk for $6.50. 
~~ 
Women's hoopsters to take on Aussies 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team continues its preseason play on Saturday night as the Irish take on the Australian National Team at the Joyce ACC at 7:30p.m. 
The Australian team is on a multiple-game tour of the United States which includes games against Notre Dame, Northern Illinois, North­western, Minnesota, Long Beach, USC, Stephen P. Austin, Texas, and Louisiana Tech. Australia has already notched victories against Vanderbilt, Lamar, and most recently Louisiana State. 
"Australia plays tough, in­your-face defense," said junior center Dionne Smith, "It'll be a a lot of defensive pressure." 
Anticipating the tough de­fense, the team has been prac­ticing for it and should be able to handle it. 
Notre Dame enters the game fresh otT a 89-82 season-open­ing loss to Athletes in Action. Senior center Margaret Nowlin scored 18 points in the contest to lead the Irish, while sopho­more Sherri Orlosky and freshmen Michelle Marciniak (13 apiece) and Audrey Gomez (12} also had double-figure games. 
The Australian team has yet to lose in the United States thanks to the consistent play of Sandy Brendello, Robyn Mayer, Rachael Sporn, Marina Moffa-Pearce, and Shelly Gorman. Brendello went a 

perfect seven-for-seven in the gerald still out with injuries, contest against LSU along with the team is incomplete. making seven assists. Maher .. We haven't had our full 
and Sporn did their parts with team yet," said Smith. "We 14 and 12 points respectively. were lacking a lot of Moffa-Pearce, Maher and experience in the first game." Gorman played strong under The team-and especially the boards pulling down seven the freshmen-should be more rebounds apiece. relaxed going into this game. 
With junior Coquese Wash­"I'm more mentally pre­ington and senior Deb Fitz-pared," said Marciniak. "I know what I have to do and 

what I am supposed to do. The frrst game was more of an ex­periment." 
Winning this game would do a lot for the mental attitude of the team. 
"A win would be a real confi­dence booster," said Mar­ciniak. "It can only be positive if we come out with a win." 




Avail~hle at participating restaurants. 
,;.._ 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 





-~.
.. ­

Friday, November 15,1991 The Observer page 21 

Magic's tragedy reminds us athletes are human too 
Because of what has transpired, while it may have tion for the doctrine of safe sex. This is supposedly saying that I don't dislike Earvin once been appropriate to call him a great human both because many people of all sexual orientations, "Magic" Johnson, and how anyone being, now he can be called a typical human being. He skin colors and NBA markets respect him and because could dislike him is difficult to succeeded at his job (basketball) and he was a sex he himself has tested positive for HIV. conceive, as he has always been a machine. Magic is, for such thinkers, the ideal poster child for classy competitor and a generous Johnson-in that he has become not only one the promulgating the claim that the proper use of man. NBA's greatest stars, hut also extremely wealthy, condoms can (aside from preventing pregnancy in 
Thus, I am writing this in an famous, popular, adored and respected-represents heterosexual sex) significantly reduce the risk of attempt to come to grips with a much of what is good about humanity. He is both a contracting either painful or fatal diseases from fallen idol. No matter how he success because of his performances on the hardwood sexual activity. The core of what these activists would behaved, Magic does not somehow Sports Editor and because of his generosity. have us believe is that there is no intrinsic problem 
"deserve" the disease he now has,-___;;~....;..;....;;;,..;..;..;.;,.;___ with rampant, casual sexual activity. This is nor does it mean that he is an evil man. It simply Yet privately, Magic typifies the human race in a supposedly the "lesson" of the sexual revolution. means that in some respect, he has likely failed as a different way, in that he led a hidden life of unchecked 
human being-something we are all capable of and sexual gratification unparalleled since the Roman Yet to claim that Magic's mistake was to not wear a have all done. emperors (and Wilt Chamberlain). Here, Johnson condom is to miss the real lesson at stake. For how It has been rehashed time and again that Magic was serves as a reminder of the imperfections of humanity. many parents would like to have Magic as a role a great player and a unique human being. Because Magic epitomizes the duality of human model were he to say, "Yes, I slept with so many However, Wednesday the world was told how Magic nature-as capable of attaining greatness while at the women that I couldn't count them, hut there's nothing contracted HIV. same time failing-Johnson should be held up as an the matter with that as long as you wear a rubber, 
example of what not to do. He is the prototypical kids." 
As reported in the Chicago Tribune, Magic told fallen idol. However, just such a statement is necessarily im­Sports Illustrated that he had contracted HIV "by To teach such a lesson would he valuable indeed, as plied by using Magic as the poster boy for safe sex. having unprotected sex with a woman who has the many individuals (especially the youth of society) virus." would be wise to witness the downfall of an idol as a Furthermore, it seems that the only reason that 
"I can't specify the time, the place or the woman. It's warning to not make the same mistakes he did. Here Earvin Johnson is promoting safe sex is because he a matter of numbers," he wrote in this week's issue of is a man who had everything and squandered it. has contracted a fatal illness. Would Magic have held Sports Illustrated. "Before I was married, I truly lived Yet this is where the story will likely get contro­a press conference if he had only contracted herpes, the bachelor's life. I'm no Wilt Chamberlain, but as I versial. For there is bound to be division over what syphilis, or gonorrhea? traveled around NBA cities, I was never at a loss for lesson is to he learned, a necessary result of divided Instead of safe sex, what Johnson's case dramati­female companionship. opinions surrounding what was in fact Magic's mis­cally demonstrates is that people are ultimately re­
"I was the one most NBA players looked up to when take. sponsible for their own actions, and that athletes must it came to women. I lived the kind of social life that Was his mistake that he was a "male slut"? Or was especially watch their steps. Athletes, from college to most guys in the league wanted to lead." his mistake that he didn't keep enough condoms the pros, must realize and accept the cold reality that 
••• handy for greeting well-wishers after Laker games? they are to live their lives beneath a microscope. 
Former NBA great Wilt Chamberlain recently Or was it both? Should Magic have confined himself to admitted in his autobiography and in an interview just a few women and worn protection? What Magic ought to teach youngsters is that he had with Bryant Gumbel that his sexual activity was as an intense craving for sex-a craving which he defining of his life as his NBA career was. If recent trends in discussions of AIDS, safe sex and satisfied without regard to the consequences of doing Chamberlain candidly stated that the number of dif­what popularly passes for morality are any indication, so-and that his inability to control his desires has ferent women with whom he had had sexual encoun­the failure to wear a condom will he cited as Magic's effectively placed him on death row. ters exceeded 20,000 (yes, twenty thousand). But fatal error, and he will he pointed to-as he In other words, Magic should he an example of why what has been written, said or broadcast about Wilt's apparently desires to be-as an example of why you don't let your hormones run your life. Perhaps he exploits? people must practice safe sex. should add for the athletes of the world that they 
Walt Frazier (of New York Knickerbocker fame), on The NBA's all-time assist leader, who has been a should keep their post-game showers cold. the night of Magic's public statement, told ABC's Ted source of inspiration and motivation for people of all If any good results are to come from Magic's in­Koppel that the pressure to mingle with "hangers-on walks of life, will become the poster child for condom fection, one hopefully will be a cure for HIV and AIDS.. around the locker room" was always there, and must usage. However, another good ought to be that people realize he especially stronger today (as compared to Frazier's · ••• the intrinsic dangers of what has been classified as playing days), and even especially stronger for an There are those individuals who would have the "high-risk" activity by the National Institute of Health, internationally loved player such as Magic. world believe that Magic must be seen as a justifica-namely promiscuity. 

·-.. --------. ENGL 434 01 3880 MUS 226 01 2024 CHANGES 
AERO 441L 01 • 10614 change time to 11:00-12:15
ENGL 440A 01 1377 PHIL 241 02 4027 
AL 212 15-10645 change time to MW 01:15 · 02:30
ACCT 232 05 0584 ENGL 451A 01 

3882 PHIL 244 01 0318 ARHI470 01 -113519 change days/time to MW 02:20 • 03:35 ACCT 232 06 0585 ENGL 453 01 3883 PHIL 246 01 2135 ARHI 570 01 -13524 change days/lime to MW 02:20 • 03:35 CHEG 448 01 -11013 change time to 12:15-01:05
ACCT 473 01 0601 

ENGL 463Z 01 3884 PHIL 246 02 2136 CHEG 698 01 -13671 change time to WF 02:20 -03:35
ACf.T 473 02 2R12 ENGL 471 01 3885 PHIL 246 05 3718 CHEM 116 01 -12930 add prerequisite -CHEM 115 or 117 AEUU 441L Ul Ubl4 CQUHSES IHAI WILL REQfE~ AI Z;QQ f,M, CHEM 116 02 • 12932 add prerequisite-CHEM 115 or 117
ENGL 472Z 01 3886 PHIL 248 01 3719

ERO 441L 02 0615 (IT MAY BE ONLY ONE OPENING) CHEM 116 03 -12934 add prerequisite· CHEM 115 or 117ENGL 473 01 3887 PHYS 210 01 3793 CHEM 116 04 • 12936 add prerequisite -CHEM 115 or 117
FAM 372 01 3048 ENGL 479 01 3888 PLS 462 05 2320 CHEM 118 01 -12931 add prerequisite-CHEM 115 or 117 FAM 389 01 3446 ANTH 328 01 0212 CHEM 118 02 -12933 add prerequisite -CHEM 115 or 117
ENGL 483 01 3044 PLS 482 01 2322 
CHEM 118 03 • 12935 add prerequisite -CHEM 115 or 117
FAM 420 01 3447 ARST 134S 01 0754
ENGL 490Z 01 3890 PSY 373 01 2"339 CHEM 118 04-12937 add prerequisite-CHEM 115 or 117
FAM 454 01 2997 ENGL 493A 01 3891 PSY 462 01 0157 ARST 242S 01 0762 CHEM 202 02-11047 change time toW 12:15-01:05 
NTH 328 01 0212 BA 490 07 3798 CHEM 236L 01 -11052 change requirements to CHEM 224 or 2:u.
ENGL 493C 01 2979 RLST 213 15 9515 pre -or corequislte change "also meets" time to
NTH 365 01 2901 CLAS 360 01 3233
ENGL 4978 01 0705 RLST 240 21 -9521 . MW 01:45-05:30 
NTH 389 01 3438 CLAS 442 01 1084 CHEM 243 01 -11053 change days/lime lo MWf OM:IIIl -OM:50
ENGL 512 01 2719 RLST 261 35 9535 
CHEM 3221.02-11056 change day toW 01:15-04:45
NTH 431 01 3442 ENGL 300C 01 3853
ENGL 562 01 3897 RLST 312 43 9543 CIIEM 329 01 -Ill 057 add corequisile • CIIEM 3291.
NTH 454 01 2912 ENGL 340T 05 3862
ENGL 585 01 3899 RLST 312 45 9545 ECON 650 01 -1111054 add restriction: "'Graduate Studl'nts only"RHI 462 01 3118 ENGL 416C 01 3874 ECON :10 I 01 -# 1160 add prerequisite -ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or
FIN 231 02 1405 soc 310 01 3539
RST 134S 01 0754 ENGL 463Z 01 3884 . . 123 & 224
FIN 231 06 1408 soc 324 01 3544 ECON 31JI 02-1111(,1 add prerequisite-E<:O~ 115 or 125 or 225 or
RST 242S 01 0762 FIN 231 06 1408
FIN 231 07 1412 soc 346 01 3027 ' . 123 & 224 
RST 246S 01 2922 HIST 466A 01 3474 ECON 301 03 • #3745 add prerequisite-ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or
FIN 360 01 1417 soc 419 01 3340 
. 123 & 224

BA 391 01 0264 Ml 398 01 3392
FIN 360 03 1419 soc 420 01 3542 ECON 302 01 · 111162 add prerequisite-ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or
BA 391 02 2736 FIN 360 06 1423 soc 426 01 3553 MSA 548 01 3805 . 123&224 BA 391 03 2735 PHIL 246 05 3718 EOON 302 02 · #1163 add prcrl'quisite-ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or
FIN 361 06 1430 STV 453 01 3566 
. 123 & 224 

BA 464 01 2816 PHIL 248 01 3719
FIN 475 01 1440 THEO 235 01 2653 ECON 315 01 -#3141 add prerequisite-ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or
BA 490 05 0849 PHYS 210 01 3793 123 & 224
FIN 476 01 2853 THEO 235 02 1820 . 
ECON 350 01 ·ItHl4 add prerequisite· ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or
BA 490 06 0850 soc 420 01 3542
GOVT 343T 03 3588 THEO 262 01 0189 . 123&224BA 490 07 3798 GOVT 449 01 2988 TIIEO 265 01 2661 soc 419 01 3340 ECON 350 02 -#3747 add prerequisite-ECON 115 or 125 or 225 or 
BIOS 411L 01 0287 . 123 & 224
GOVf 459 01 2906 
ECON 380 01 -#2969 add prerequisite-ECON 115 or 125 or 225
CAPP 243 01 0969 

GSC 242 01 3773 . or 123 & 224
CLAS 360 01 3233 GSC 346 01 3028 COURSES CAI\CELLED ECON 445 01 -111365 change prerequisite to ECON 301 and 302 CLAS 427 01 3427 ECON 592 01 · 113755 add prerequisite • ECON 494 or 591
GSC 423B 01 3766 
E"'iGL 3-tOT 05 · #J/!(,2 rhang<' liml' to 0!1:00 · Oll:50
CLAS 442 01 1084 ACCT 477 01 -#0603
GSC 446 01 3772 GEOS 342 01-#1139 change days/time to TH 01:15-02:30,.
COTH 435 01 3978 liPS 478P 01 -#3984 . · change credit hours lo 4. and change prerequisite
GSC 472S 01 3265 
. to EASC 341
ECON 417 01 2905 

GSC 493A 01 3769 GOVf 342 01 -#1507 add corequisile or GOVf 342T 
ECON 421 01 1168 HIST 342A 01 3480 GOVf 446 01 -113605 should nol be a "RecommPnded UniversityECON 451 01 1363 . Elective"
HIST 348A 01 3482 COURSES ADDED 
GOVf 451 01 -Call number should be 13367
ECON 498 01 1173 

HIST 414A 01 3476 ARCH 444 02 #4037-Design VI; 6 cr. hrs.; MWF 01:15-05:00 GOVf 482 01 • 13598 Course number has been changed to 485
ENGL 300C 01 3853 HIST 466A 01 3474 ARCH 444 03 #4308-Design VI: 6 cr. hrs.: MWF 01:15-05:00 HIST 225 01 • 10135 Not open to anyone who has taken HIST 115 . or HIST 116
ENGL 312 01 1361 liPS 475 01 3398 CE 498 09 #4036 -Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs. 
liPS 478P 01 • 13984 change days to MF 11:15 · 12:30ENGL 3148 01 4022 LAW 631F 01 1670 CHEG 498 01 #4044 -Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs. liPS 578 01 · 113321 change days lo MF 11:15 • 12:30 ENGL 317C 01 3204 LAW 631G 01 EE 599R 23 #4042-Thesis Direction; var. cr. hrs. LAW 513 02-11645 change time to TH 03:00 • 03:50 
1671 

MATH 125T 01 -10085 change time lo H 11:30-12:20
ENGL 3188 01 3855 EE 699R 16 #4043 -Rcst~arch & Dissertation: var. cr. hrs.
LAW 695 03 1690 MATH 662 01 · 10225 change time to MWF 10:10-11:00
ENGL 3198 01 1364 LAW 695 04 DESN 498S 04 #4039 -Special Studies: var. cr. hrs.: Permission MBA 645 01 · 13912 change restriction to MBAA only
1691

ENGL 333 01 3857 . Required MBA 646 01 -11810 change restriction to MBA only
LAW 695 05 1692 HIST 680 01 #4030 -Technology in History; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10 ME 469 01-11835 change time to MWF 10:10-11:00ENGL 340T 01 3858 
MARK 381 01 1704 MGT 240 01 · 11863 change days/time to MWF 01:15-02:05 and 
. 11:00: Permission Required
ENGL 340T 03 3860 the instructor Is R. Bualuan
MGT 231 01 1856 
IIIST 670 01 #4033 -The Contours of American Religious . MGT 487 01 • 13800 Is "Permission Required" ENGL 340T 04 3861 
MGT 231 03 1859 . History; 3 cr. hrs.; T 02:45-05:15 MGT 454 01-11872 change days/lime lo Tilll:OO • 12:15 
ENGL 340T 05 3862 MGT 231 04 1860 Ml 621 01 -13036 change day/lime toM 01:15-03:45
LAW 630 01 #4040-Admiralty: 2 cr. hrs.: TH 10:00-10:50: Law
ENGL 403 01 3867 MGT 231 MSA 545 01 -13803 Is not "Permission Required": it is Majors
05 1861 . stdts only only
ENGL 413A 01 3869 

MGT 231 06 1862 LAW 6388 01 #4041 -Health Care Law; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 04:00 -MSE 225 01 -11191!8 chang•• da)·sltiml' Lo Til 01:15 · 02::10:.
ENGL 4148 01 3870 change prl'/ron'quisitc In CIIEM 115 or 117 nr
MGT 488 01 3801 . 05:15; Law stdts only
ENGL 415 01 3152 125 or 195 and CHEM 116 or 118 or 126 or 1%
Ml 309 01 2995 MBA 667 01 #4034-Escalating Commitment & Policy Decision 
maximum shouid be 220ENGL 415E 01 4002 Ml 333 01 3810 Making; 3 cr. hrs.: TH 02:45 -04:00; Pcrmis-PHIL 578 01 • 13320 change days to MF 11:15 • 12:30 
ENGL 415Z Ol 3871 Ml 398 01 3392 . sion Required; cross-listed with MGT 487-01 SOC 202 01 • 12582 add restrictions -Sophomores or . Juniors only
ENGL 416A 01 3872 Ml 437 01 3944 PHIL 604 01 #4035 -Directed Readings: var. cr. hrs. 
SOC 220 01 • 10333 add restrictions • Sophomores or
ENGL 4168 01 3873 ROIT 106 02 #4031 -Beginning Italian II-Architect; 3 cr. hrs.;
MSA 545 01 3803 . Juniors only
ENGL 416C 01 3874 MSA 548 01 3805 . MWF11:15-12:05; Pre-req. ROIT 105 & SOC 346 01 • 113027 add prerequisite-Any SOC coursl' 
ENGL 420A 01 3875 . ARCH majors only SOC 591 01 • 10106 change days/lime to TBA
MSA 553 01 3804 
SOC 593L 01 • 13556 change credit hours to 1
ENGL 422 01 ROSP 599 01 #4032 -Thesis Direction; var. cr. hrs.; Graduate 
3876 MUS 220 01 2016 THEO 411 01 • 112672 change time to TH 09:30-10:45 ENGL 4238 01 3877 students only THEO 621 01 • 113037 change day/Lime toM 01:15 • 01:45 
MUS 220 03 2018 
ENGL 4268 01 3256 MUS 222 01 0105 ENGL 4288 01 3878 


rr~------.-~·~·~--..~--....~.....................u.-~~......~..~~.E~...............g.......s.......a..........~~ 
~~­
~~  
1.~  •"":~  ,.,.,~(:  ·1:-, ..  . ~ .. ";.. !,)._, ,), :  
~:  page 22  The Observer  Friday, November 15,1991  

In' '·' lnterhall football titles up for grabs on Sunday
!l\ 
~ 
Keenan, Zahm 

~. 
face off for 2nd 

ll 
time this season 

l, 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

l A rematch between Keenan and Zahm takes place this . I 
• Carroll players ruled 

~~ 
ineligible/page 18 

I[; 
Sunday with the men's interhall 

tt: 
football championship at stake. 
The second meeting between the two Leahy division foes was made possible after RecSports 


I·!I 
officials replaced Carroll with

lj Zahm in the title game. The change was made after it was discovered that ineligible play­ers played on the Vermin squad in the two teams semifinal match up. 
In the two teams regular sea­son meeting Keenan slipped by Zahm 3-0 on a Matt Davis field goal early in the game. The low score was a combination of strong defense and terrible weather conditions which plagued both offenses. 
The game may be decided on the sidelines as the teams coaches scramble to prepare for opponents which they only discovered less than 24 hours ago. 
"We were preparing for Carroll, but it doesn't change a whole lot now that we are play­ing Zahm," said Keenan coach Phil Webby. "They do things differently on defense than Carroll did, and that we will have to adjust to that." 


.. We played them before so we basically now what they do," said Zahm coach Kevin Casey...We are are going to have to put some new stuff in, but I think we can do it." 
The on-field battle will be be­tween on both offenses who try and score on two defenses which have held opponents at bay the entire season. 
Quarterback Chris Hammond has been the main man for Zahm all season and will be leading an offense which has averaged 12 points per game in the playoffs. Complimenting 

,. Hammond is Matt Seng, who leads the team in scoring from his tailback position. Another weapon for the Zahm attack may be receiver Peter Couri who has shown an ability to 
I make the big catch. ·~ The Keenan offense is guided 
·i 
by Davis at quarterback, and boasts the skills of Dave Dettore at running back. Davis doubles as the Knights' kicker and has won two games this 
see IH FBI page 18 

Tryi11g to J1Iggle Yo11r Cl1rist1nas Lists~ 
Try T-Shirl<s featuring MARC CHAGALL'S 
"TfiE C~RAND CJI{CUS" 
on sale at the Snite Museum Gift Shop. 
REGULARLY $12.00 
NOW $8.00 
Available in M, L, & XL 
(Hurry!! Supplies are limitool) 



Breen-Phillips, Lewis surprise top seeds to reach women's final 
By ELAINE DEBASSIGE 
Sports Writer 
At the beginning of the year, everyone was aware that Breen-Phillips and Lewis would 
~" field strong teams. However, neither dominated during the regular season-B.P. finished third in the Gold Division with a 3-2 record,
~~ 

while Lewis snuck into the playoffs as the fourth-place team in the Blue at 2-3. 
But after the smoke has cleared from the first two rounds of play in the women's interhall football tournament, the sixth-seeded Blitz and the eighth-seeded Chickens find themselves battling for the championship this Sunday at 
1:00 p.m. in the Stadium. 
B.P. and Lewis have not played each other yet this year, but they are by no means un­familiar with one another. Lewis knocked off B.P. in the 1988 finals, and last year, the Blitz defeated the Chickens in the semifinals. 
Sunday's game should be an exciting ending to a season filled with surprises. 
Breen-Phllllps 

Breen-Phillips has done it again, knocking off Walsh and Pasquerilla West in the playoffs to put itself in position to de­fend its 1990 title. 
The Blitz is quite capable of doing it too. They might not always have a roof-smashing 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

score, but their defense has 
Sophomore Michelle Hurst breaks into the open field for a big gain 
held opponents to a mere 35 
during B.P.'s 9-8 semifinal victory over P.W. The Blitz face Lewis 
points since the first game. 
Sunday for the women's interhall football championship. 
Their will to win comes as no 
Go against the grain. A American Heart Cut down on salt. V Association 
HEY 3-NORTH 
WHAT WILL YOO 
LOOK LIKE 

THIS SONDAY 
MARK SWENSON
MORNING? GET PSYCHED FOR SATURDAY NIGHT! LIVE KATIE 
L'!t 
~ 
surprise to anyone. Last year, they won the championship in a tough contest versus Howard, and have always held tight in difficult situations. 
The Blitz defense is the best in the league. Linebacker Kelly Guerin will be tough to get around, snagging two intercep­tions against Walsh. 
On offense, senior Lynn Irvin has been tough at the quarter­back position and has proven that she can throw in the clutch against both Walsh and P.W. 
Lewis 

' The Chickens are known for sporting very competitive teams, and this year's team is no different. They were almost written ofT for the playoffs, but then beat the P.E. Pyros in the last game of the season to qualify for the tournament. Lewis was ranked eighth go­ing into the playoffs, facing top-seed Howard in its opening-round matchup. Howard had only one loss in the regular season, but the Chickens pre­vailed 6-0 in overtime. In its semifinal game, Lewis proved its regular-season win over P.E. wasn't a nuke, domi­nating the Pyros in a 19-0 rout to reach the title game. The pas~ing game, led by quarterback Kristin Kirwin, has improved throughout the season. Kirwin's favorite target is tight end Julie Fleck, who has made quite an impression on the field. The defense is strong, with senior linebacker Jill Beth Hayes and sophomore Megan Heyward leading the way. 
HAPPY 20th 

Friday, November 15, 1991 
The Observer page 23 TIE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON CALVIN AND HOBBES JAY HOSLER
SPELUNKER
BILL WATTERSON 





peacefully until, in the 17th century, it was annihilated by men, rats and dogs. As usual. 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8725 
46 Lupine and Cantor 10 Dye ingredient
ACROSS 

48 Woodturning machine 11 Dangerous ones 1 Jet -49 Sound amplifier 12 Car accessory7 Shoos away 50 Covered with 14 Discharge 
13 Belonging to Dobie hoarfrost 15 Town ­
Gillis's girlfriend 52 -----neck shirt 20 Pastures 15 Small crown 53 Pioneer in mental 23 Waterway 16 Senior citizen, health 24 Aficionado 
usually 54 Varnish ingredient 27 Ex-Senator Jackson 17 Dance performance 56 Do car work 28 Last ­18 Formation 58 Oscar -31 On the­19 Roman 151 59 -box, in 33 -Harbor, Maine 21 -system psychology 35 Flirtatious fellows 22 Polynesian warriors 60 U.S. industrialist, 36 Math symbol 23 Statement of Samuel -37 California city or 
faith 61 Avaricious shaded walk 25 College in Houston 38 Stringed instrument 26 Telephone-dial of old
DOWN

trio 39 Stupid 27 Actress Norma -1 Layers 40 Compared 29 ----Synephrine 2 Richard Burton film 41 Former Senator 30 Gulf-state food (2 wds.} Fang, et al. 
fishes 3 Frantic scramble 43 Poe's bird 32 Jazz instrument (2 wds.} 45 Dieter's food 34 First-rate 4 Inventor Howe 47 What to do with a 35 Manny of baseball 5 Breezy new watch ( 2 wds.} 36 Actor Navarro 6 Busch, Clarke, 49 Creator of 38 Gridiron play or West Winnie-the-Pooh 41 Comedy producer 7 "Barney Miller" 51 Measure of medicine 
-Roach actor, Jack -----53 Possible poker hand 42 Reads 8 Technical name for 55 And not 44 Editor's insertion the shank 57 Record of heart 
in a quote 9 Helicopter part activity 
(at ihe infirf'19rt-J 
I 
~­
MENU 
Notre Dame 

Cajun Chicken Breast Sandwich Tuna fish Casserole Shepherds Pie Vegetable Eggrolls 
Saint Mary's 
Batter Fried Fish Veal Parmesan Beef Tacos Deli Bar 

CAMPUS 
Friday 
7:15 p.m. and "9:45 p.m. Film, "Madonna: Truth or Dare. Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Silence of the Lambs." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
Saturday 
7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Madonna: Truth or Dare." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and Theatre. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, "Silence of the Lambs." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored byStudent Union Board. 
NO. JuST CHECKINV! .;:-,o.ACTHfN (., WE (.AN'T
IIR:f.A·o·Y.ouk wRlTINii> 
..... ,,,. .. () .,"',,,.,...._1MfC' 
CARD. UNOE:R. ~ti\SON I fOR VISIT'; iS ,f ­1
EMORRHA~E. oR 
HEMORRHOID? 
' 


Bo  Deans  Also don't miss Silence of the LaJDbs Nov. 15th & 16th  
in Concert  Cushing 8:00 &  Auditorium 10:30 PM  
Admission  $2.00  

Nov. 19th :00 PM Stepan Center 
Special Guest Will T. Massey Tickets on sale at LaFortune Info Desk. $8 students/ $12 general publicsTuoENT uNION soARu 

• f I : t I • I • . lfljl· (I • I I ­

I 
'1 r r • • 1, • ,., • l'r 4't'f f f'f f-1 • •·• • -l•rrf'ltr.f.f## ,,~··-#.1.-1 I~ 1.1 I II' iiI i 
Sports 
page 24 Friday, November 15,1991 
Cross country teams look to qualify for NCAA meet 
Women hope to rebound from close defeat at MCC's 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 

Hoping to bounce back from a stunning two-point loss at the MCC Championships two weeks ago, the Notre Dame women's cross country team competes in the District IV Meet at noon Saturday in Bloomington. 
The District Meet is the qualifier for the NCAA National Championships, with the top two teams earning an invitation to the big show in Tucson, Ariz. Last year, the Irish rmished 14th out of 28 teams, but this year they plan to better their 1990 rmish. 
"Our goal should be for the NCAA's," said junior Lisa Gorski. "We shouldn't have anything else on our minds." 
As usual, Notre Dame's district is extremely tough, with nationally-ranked Wisconsin, Iowa, Michigan, and MCC champion Loyola expected to lead the way. 
The only way the Irish will be able to garner one of the top two spots is if they keep their top five runners together throughout the race. However, this is easier said than done, since there are over 200 runners in the race, and it is quite easy to lose your teammates. 
"Coach has said to look for the blue and gold and run with thein," said Gorski. "It's a lot easier if you run with a teammate." 
Irish coach Tim Connelly has been stressing the team attitude in practice for the last two weeks, since the Irish got away from running as a team at the MCC Meet. 
"Everyone needs to sacrifice for everyone else," noted senior Diana Bradley. '"You can't run for yourself, you have to run as a team." 
see WOMEN/ page 19 


The Observer/R. Garr Schwartz Senior Mike Coyle leads the Notre Dame men's cross country team into action this weekend at the NCAA District IV championships in Bloomington, Ind. 
Men face tough task in defense of 1990 District title 
By JENNIFER MARTEN Sports Writer 
It's rmally here. 
The focal point of the entire men's cross country season has arrived. On Saturday, the ninth-ranked Irish will face an array of teams from all across the Midwest in the NCAA District IV meet in Bloomington. 
"This is the most important meet in the schedule," said Notre Dame coach Joe Piane. 
And this year, it will be the toughest meet on the schedule. According to the most recent Division I cross country poll, four of the teams which will run in Indianapolis this weekend were listed in the nation's top 20. 
Wisconsin received the highest ranking at fifth, while Michigan and Notre Dame were not far behind with a seventh-place and ninth-place ranking respectively. Michigan State made the top twenty at 17th. In addi­tion, Loyola and Eastern Michigan are also bringing strong teams into the meet. 
Leading the Irish will be junior John Coyle and sophomore Mike McWilliams. The All-American tandem has notched victories for the Irish in several meets this year. At the Indiana Intercollegiate meet, Coyle took the top spot while at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference meet, McWilliams notched the individual victory. 
"Coyle and McWilliams have made nice improvements since the Georgetown meet," commented Piane. 
Seniors Pat Kearns and Mike Drake, junior J.T. Burke, and freshmen John Cowan and Nate Ruder will provide plenty of depth for the Irish at the meet. 
Kearns, the captain, has not run in the last two 
see MEN I page 18 

l, 

I 
,! 
l I 
•I 
~1 
l 
0 
1 
i 
ii. 
q:1! 
~:~ 
I) 
I ) } 
I j 
l; 
.';:; 
'.! 
~~ 
I 
i': 
···.J ''-;. i ;-, 
·q 
;,;!/, 
I I 
I','i 
, I '!!
ll : ~ ~ 
. \ i 
!;{( 
. ' 
I' 
Volleyball team takes top seed into MCC Championships 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 

The next step towards a pos­sible NCAA berth takes place this weekend for the Notre Dame volleyball team. 
The Irish (17-7) travel to Indianapolis tonight at 6:00 
p.m. for a second-round match between the winner of the Butler-Dayton game in the Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence tournament. If they should win tonight, they would play in the championship game Sat­urday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. at Henkle Fieldhouse on the Butler campus. 
Notre Dame goes into the tournament as the prohibitive favorite, having captured the regular season title-and the · top seed for this weekend-with a perfect 5-0 conference mark. However, there is much more riding on this weekend than just the MCC title and an automatic 

bid into the National Invita­tional Volleyball Championship. 
For the Irish are under con­sideration for an NCAA tour­nament bid, and if they want to make the big show, they must win their remaining six games. Thus, a strong showing this weekend is important to Notre Dame's NCAA chances. 
"The team is excited about still having a chance (at the NCAA tournament)," said Irish coach Debbie Brown. "It's reju­venated the team-we've had some good practices this week, and it helped to have last week­end ofT to get some rest." 
Notre Dame dropped only two games in its five regular-season conference matches-one apiece to second-seed Xavier and third-seed Loyola, probable title game opponents. The Irish also steamrolled its possible semifinal foes, fourth-seed Butler and fifth-seed Dayton. 
However, Notre Dame is not taking its MCC rivals lightly, knowing that one misstep could cost it an NCAA berth. 
"Xavier, Loyola, and Butler are all similar teams," said Brown. "All three are fairly balanced and play excellent de­fense-they're the type of team that you have to work hard to score points against. 
"We have a healthy respect for them. They don't give up in a match, and they'll definitely give us a fight." 

Clark's talents merit two-way play 
It's become obvious that Willie dark is really the only game-breaker the Irish have on offense. Of course, necessity has dictated that Clark play on defense, where he can use his phenomenal speed to great advantage. 
So here's a thought to mull over: why not play Clark both 


Rich Kurz 

ways?Irish coach Lou Holtz has Associate Sports promised to return Clark to Editor his original tailback slot next year with the graduation of Tony Brooks and Rod Culver, but with the secondary playing so well, it'll be hard for Lou to resist the temptation to keep Clark on defense. The idea isn't as crazy as it sounds. In the past, Holtz has expounded on the benefits of a one-platoon system. Here's his chance to put in his two cents on the subject. If Notre Dame is successful with it, what's to stop other teams from trying it? Clark certainly has the tools to do it. In his 18 carries this year before being switched to free safety, Clark ran for 114 yards-a 6.3 average. In six games at safety, the sophomore has made. his presence known. He has made 34 tackles, caused two fumbles and picked off a pass, running it back 25 yards. The task wouldn't be as tough as you might expect. As much as Holtz likes to substitute running backs, Clark would get his rest. And don't forget that this is an extremely talented athlete in the prime of his life. Projecting those numbers over a full season, dark would be impressive on either side of the ball. But on both sides of the line, Clark would be big-time news. . Anybody remember Gordie Lockbaum? A few years ago, he was a Heisman Trophy contender, finishing third in the voting simply because he 
played both ways. And that was at Division 1-AA Holy Cross. Imagine the possibilities with Clark in the spotlight commanded by Notre· Dame. They would be unreal. 
Tennessee's Carl Pickens (I'm sure you re­member him) was a Heisman contender when he played both offense and defense. When he started playing only offense, his Reisman stock dropped considerably. 
Besides, the Irish have a history of out­standing two-way players. In fact, it's almost a prerequisite to winning a Heisman at Notre Dame. 1947 winner John Lujack, remembered primarily as a quarterback, was also an outstanding defensive back. 
Two years later, playing both sides of the ball, Leon Hart snagged himself a Heisman. In 1953, John Lattner won the award after earning All­American honors on both offense and defense. And finally, in 1956, the Golden Boy, Paul Hornung, won the Reisman playing quarter­back and defensive back (even picking off two passes during his senior season). Obviously, the tradition exists here at Notre Dame. 
Of course, this move wouldn't be exclusively for the benefit of Willie Clark. If he isn't the best free safety the Irish have, he wouldn't be playing there right now. When Culver and Tony Brooks graduate, he will inherit at least part of the tailback spot, with Reggie Brooks also a candidate. 
Pairing Clark with Jerome Bettis in the backfield is a one-two combination that would give defensive coordinators nightmares. Power and grace. The bull and the rabbit. Stack up against the power game and watch Clark explode outside. Attempt to contain Clark and see Bettis run over linebackers. It's almost scary. 
While there is still a lot of time before next season, it's still worth a thought. Go ahead Lou. Give Willie a shot at playing both ways next year. 
Tailback Tony Brooks (shown here vs. USC) and the rest of the Irish travel to Penn State this weekend. See preview in Football '91. 

A Supplement to the Observer 
Friday, November 15, 1991 
GAMEINFO · 
THE GAME: Notre Dame (8-2) at Penn State (8-2). 
TIME: 3:30p.m. EST. 

TV & RADIO: ABC (Brent Musburger, Dick Vermiel, Cheryl Miller) will televise the game to fifty percent of the nation through regional audiences. Host Creative Communications (Jim Henderson, Paul Hornung) will broadcast a two-hour replay on numerous syndi­cated SportsChannel stations. including WNDU-TV In South Bend (12:30 a.m. EST Monday) and SportsChannel Chicago (8:00 a.m. EST Sunday). The Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna) will carry the game to 280 stations across the country, including WNDU-AM, WNDU-FM and WSBT-AM in South Bend and WMAQ-AM in Chicago. 
TICKETS: Beaver Stadium, the 93,600 seat home of Penn State football. is sold out for the 83rd consecutive time. 
RANKING$: Notre Dame: NCSW 13th, AP 12th. Penn State: NCSW 8th, AP 8th. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame and Penn State are tied, with seven wins apiece and one tie. The Irish have faced the Nittany Lions every year since 1981, and will end the series after 1992, when Penn State joins the Big Ten. Notre Dame has won two of the last three games, but the Nittany Lions have won seven of ten since 1981. The Irish are 1­4 in Beaver Stadium-the ·lone win com­ing on their last visit (34-23 in 1989). 
THE lAST TIME: Penn State 24, Notre Dame 21. 
LAST WEEK: Penn State defeated Maryland 47-7. 

··.1991 SCHEDULES 
NOTRE DAME· 

Sept. 7  INDIANA  w49-27  
Sept. 14  atMichigan  l14-24  
Sept·21  MICHIGAN STATE  W49-10  
Sept28  ·at Purdue  W45-20  
Oct5  at Stanford  W42·26  
Oct.l2  PITTSBURGH  W42-7  
Oct. 19  at Air Force •.·  W28..15  
Oct.26  SOUTHERN CAL  W24'-20  
Nov.2  NAVY  W38-0  
Nov. 9  TENNESSEE  L 34·35  
Nov. 16  at. Penn State  (21~24)..  
Nov. 30  at Hawaii  (DNP)  



Aug.2a· 
SepL7 
Sept. 14 
Sept. 21 
Sept. 28 
Oct. 5 
Oct..12 
Oct, 19 
Oct. 26 Nov.9 

. Nov. 16 
Nov.23. 
PENN STATE 
GEORGIA TECH CINCINNATI at Southem Cal BRIGHAM YOUNG BOSTON COLLEGE 
at Temple at Miami 
RUTGERS WEST VIRGINIA at·Maryland NOTRE DAME at Pittsburgh 
.·.. 

W34-24 
ws1..o 
L 10-21 W33-7 W28-21 W24·7 
L20-26 
W37-17 W51-6 W47-7 
(24~1) . (22~17) 
BA 
, 

Irish miss steady Hentrich 
Junior kick specialist is a proven competitor 

By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 

When the Irish take to the field to do 
battle with eighth-ranked Penn State 
on Saturday, they will be without the 
services of one of the key members of 
the team, kicker-punter Craig 
Hentrich. 

Hentrich suffered torn ligaments in his knee during the Tennessee game on a field goal attempt just before halftime. The kick was blocked, and recovered by a Vol player who re­turned it 85 yards for a touchdown. 
"The ball was rolling around," said Hentrich, "and I was looking between legs to try and jump on it. A couple guys were blocked into me and got me on the leg. There's a lot of questions about the injury, and I'll fmd out in a couple days what's going to happen, but right now, we're pretty optimistic about it." 
The Irish kicking game will be weakened somewhat without Hentrich, who normally handles all the kicking duties. He has been an outstanding kicker the last two seasons, etching his name in the record books and gathering pre­season All-American status this year by the Football News and College and Pro Football Newsweekly. 
Impressive accomplishments for a man who didn't even start kicking footballs until his freshman year in high school. 
"I played soccer for eight years, starting at age five," said Hentrich, "and didn't get interested in football until I was a freshman. I decided on the last day possible to play, and I'm glad that I did." 
In high school, the player 
Craig Hentrlch 
a 44.9 yard average. 

Over his first two seasons, Hentrich has nailed down 24 of 35 field goals and 85 of 86 PATs, including a Notre Dame record 77 consecutive attempts. This season, he has hit 5 of 8 field goals and recorded a 42.9 yard punting average, continuing his role as the consistent, sure-footed kicker. 
Hentrich is a management in­formation systems (MIS) major, and sees this as a large part of his future. 
"It's a business-computer major," he said. "I've been interested in computers since high school, so this is what I wanted to do. I'm working on a good major right now and I'd love to do it. If I would get a chance to continue with football after college, that would be great. If not, then I'll have a terrific degree to fall back on." 
For Saturday's game against the Nittany Lions, senior Jim Sexton will handle the punting duties, and sophomore Rob Leonard will most likely be doing the kicking. It was Leonard who had the potential game­winning kick blocked against 
Tennessee in his first collegiate 
appearance, though through no fault 
of his own. 
Said Hentrich, "Before he (Rob) 
kicked, I reminded him that it was just 
like practice. Just go out, concentrate 
on it, and hit it well, and he did that. 
Unfortunately, it got blocked." 
Kicking is a tough, pressure-filled occupation. Games often hang in the balance of the kicker's actions. However Hentrich sees the game as a challenge of will, of effort. 
"You have to go out and work hard every single day. That's the way I look at it and that's the way the coaches look at it, too. Things like All-America status are nice, but they don't just come to you. I'm not going to take anything for granted. The most important goal for football right now is the national championship. I guess it's over for this year, but we've got one more year left." 
Hentrich is regarded as of the best kickers in the country-and likely the best combination kicker/punter-and Irish coach Lou Holtz knows that he has a winner. 
Said Holtz before the season started, "I think Craig is one of the truly outstanding kickers I've ever been associated with, and I've had several who went into the pros. He's an excellent competitor and a good athlete. If there's ever been a pro prospect, he's it." 
As far as any change in the game plan for Penn State goes due to the loss of Hentrich, Holtz summed up his kicker's importance to the team, quip­ping, "I guess we can go for it on fourth down." 

from Godfrey, Ill., boomed 
punts at a 42.7 yard average, 
including one for 75 yards, 
standing as the second longest 
punt in state history. He was 
good on 81 of 87 PATs and 26 
perb performance was re­
warded with Parade and 
Superprep high school All­
American status his senior 
year. 

When it came time to choose 
a college, it was down to Notre 
Dame and Illinois. What made 
Hen trich decide on Notre 
Dame? 

"I made my visit here, took one look at the Dome, and was completely in love with it," said Hentrich. 'Tm glad I made the decision to come here." 
Hentrich was thrust into the limelight his freshman year, initially handling kickoffs, and gradually moving to field goals and punting. He saw action in the first game that year, kick­ing off against Virginia in the Kickoff Classic at the Meadowlands. 
Said Hentrich, "I have never been so nervous in my life as I was for that first kick, but after that, it was nothing new... 
Hentrich then proceeded to turn some heads his freshman year, hitting 44 of 45 PATs and 8 of 15 field goals, and setting the single-season punting mark with a 44.6 yard average. As a The Observer/Sean Farnan sophomore, he would break his Craig Hentrich lofts a field goal attempt against Purdue earlier this season. Hentrich is 29 for 43 own mark, launching ~mnts at in field goal attempts in his career. 

Irish Football '91 
page 2 Friday,November15, 1991 

Rod Smith prospers at safety 
Instinctive play carries philosophical senior to success 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

From the moment you first begin to speak with him, Rod Smith impresses you as a young man who has his act together. 
For his first couple of years on the Irish football team, that was a problem. 
The junior from St. Paul, Minn., plans to get a Ph.D. (in economics), and lists one of his hobbies as "talking with friends about deep philosophical ques­tions." 
But he now admits that ex­cessive thinking hampered his game. 
"It's taken me almost three years to get it out of my play," said Smith. "(Now) I rely on in­stinct, throw my body in there and make the play. I used to set up my own keys and variables and try to figure to everything out. It got to be too much thinking." 
Smith came into this season as the heir to Todd Lyght's cornerback spot, with creden­tials to back himself up. 
At 6-0, 186 lbs., he has the size to fill the position, not to mention the speed (4.32 in the 40), and has been doing a stel­lar job in the defensive back­field. Just not at cornerback. 
Secondary coach Ron Cooper moved Smith to the strong safety spot. Neither player nor coach have been disappointed with the switch. 
"I'm very, very satisfied," says Cooper. "He's done a great job. He made the switch easily. It's great to have a fast safety." 
"I really enjoy strong safety," Smith says. "I get to play man­to-man on wide receivers, which I enjoy. You get drops and breaks on the ball you don't get at corner. It's been a good move." 
The numbers agree. Smith is third on the team in tackles with 58 and has broken up a pass and intercepted three others. 
Notre Dame 
Numerical Roster. 
Name Pos Ht Wt . 1 Miller, Mike WR 5-7155 46 Ratigan,Brian**ILB 6-5 226 2 Saddler,LeShaneCB 5-11193 47 Berlch, Pete* ILB 6-1 225 . 2 Lanigan, Craig FB 5-10 187 48 Farren, John ILB 5-11194 3 Mirer, Rick** OB 6-2 215 49 Peterson, A.• OLB 6-1214 4 Graham, Tracy DB 5-11183 50 Stec, Greg DT 6-3 235 5 Culver, Rodney*** TB 5-10 226 •..•. 51Tyner, Stuart OG 6-5 268 6 Bettis, Jerome• FB 5-11 247 •·· . 52 Holden, Germaine OLB 6-4 240 
8 Johnson, Clint FL 5-8 179 ... 54 Goheen, Justin ILB 6-3 220 9 Burris, Jeff* FS 6-0 194 55 Lytle, Dean OLB 6-3 221 10 Jarrell, Adrian* FL 6-0 194 56 Gibson, Oliver OLB 6-3 228 12 Failla, Paul OB 6-3 185 57 Mannelly, B. DT 6-4 279 13 Carter, Tom* CB 5-11 186 58 Nau, Jeremy ILB 6-4 225 · 14 Griggs, Ray•• Fl6-1 195. 59 Johnson, L.ance*C 6-2 260 15 McDougal, Kavin OB 6-2 182 59 Hickey, Karl C 6-1 212 · 16 Sexton, Jim" ... P 6-0 189 · 60 Kuechenberg, ErikiLB 6-2 215 
. 16 Parenti, Chris OB 5-11 191 61 Ruddy, Tim C 6-3 275 18 Moriarty, Trevor SE 6-1 176 62 Lacheta, Chet OG 6-2 279 19 Swenson, Mark FL 5-8 152 63 BeckWith, Jason OG 6~1 237 20 Scruggs, Martin FL 6-1 192 64 Rausch, Peter DT 6-5 275 21 Smith, Rod*** CB 6-0 186 65 Knapp, Undsay• OT 6-6 271 22 Wooden, Sean RB 6-o 175 66 Norman, Todd OT 6-6 289 22 Augeri, John-PauiSS 5·10 173 67 Zataveski, Mark OL 6-7 280 23 Boyd, Walter• .... FB 5-10 204 68 Riney, Jeff OL 6-5 235 24 Stafford, Charles DB 6-1 187 70 McGlinn, Mike OT 6-5 260 24 Bergmann, Jon ILB 6-0 202 71 Gibson, Herbert OL 6~ 1 263 25 Moore. LaRon RB 5-9 180 72 Leahy, Ryan OL 6-5 250 26 Davis, Greg""* SS 6-0 204 73 Hall, Justin*** OT 6-4 2.97 26 Marsh, Drew K 6-0191 74 Jurkovic, Mirko"*"'OG 6-4 289 27 Poorman, George*'*QB 6-1 191 75 Taylor, Aaron OG 6-4 280 28 Hentrich, Craig*• KIP 6-1 196 76 McGuire, Gene***C 6-4 286 
2.9 Lane, Greg* CB 5-9 176 n Stoker, Todd DT 6-3 271 30 Smith, Nick** OLB 6-2 219 78 Halter, Jordan OT 6-7 296 31 DuBose, D.** ILB 6-2 234 79 Young, Tyler DL 6-4 250 32 Clark, Willie" TB 5-11 1n 80 McBride, Oscar TE 6-5 242 32 Donahue, JamesiLB 6-2 209 81 Jones, Eric** DT 6-6 250 33 Covington, John*FS 6-1 202 82 Pollard, William•• SE 6-4 220 33 Hollister, Chet FS 6-2186 83 Smith, Tony** SE 6-2 191 34 Zellars, Ray RB 6-0 203 84 Smith, lrv** TE 6·5 233 34 Meter, Brian CB 5-9 173 86 Brown, Derek TE 6-6 252 35 Mihalko, Ryan*** FB 6-2 232 87 Dawson, Lake SE 6-1 200 36 Sample, Jeremy ILB 6-1 205 88 Bakich, Huntley ILB 6-3 210 36 Fuentes, David FB 5-9 198 89 McGill, Karl* OLB 6-3 221 37 Davis, Travis RB 6-0 180 90 Hamilton, Brian DT 6-5 254 38 Scianna, Randy ILB 6-0 224 92 Bruening, Willie ILB 5-10 209 39 Robinson, MarvinCB 5-9 173 . 93 Kordas, Jim OL 6-5 240 40 Brooks, Tony*"'* TB 6-2 223 94 Fleurima, ReggieDT 6·4 250 41 Brooks, Reggie* TB 5-8 200 95 Bryant, Junior** DT 6·4 263 42 Becton, Lee RB 5-11 185 96 deManlgold, M.* DT 6-4 266 44 Flanigan, Jim* ILB 6-2 243 · 97 Young, Bryant* DT 6-3 256 45 McDonald, D.** OLB 6-4 240 99 Ridgley, Troy* NT 6-4 265 
Part of the reason the reason Smith made the transition so easily is that this wasn't the frrst switch he's made since arriving at Notre Dame. When he first arrived, he was a running back-one of six freshman backs. 
By the time the season rolled around, however, he was play­ing flanker, and did well enough that he was one of only eight rookies to monogram in that national championship season. 
But in his sophomore year, Smith was playing defensive back, where he would stay for the remainder of his career. After starting his first game-against Michigan in his junior campaign, Smith had to get reacquainted with another role-that of backup. The shifts designed to shore up the sec­ondary took away his starting role. 
Fittingly enough, his next 
chance to start provided him 
with an opportunity for re­
demption. It is a play that will 
be emblazoned on the minds of 
those who saw the game versus 
Tennessee last season. 

With the Irish up 34-29, 
Volunteer quarterback Andy 
Kelly was looking to add to his 
399 passing yards and two 
touchdowns. Less than a minute 
earlier, Kelly had thrown a TD 
pass to Alvin Harper, just out of 
Smith's reach. 

The Vols recovered an onside 
kick and Kelly moved them 
down the field, giving them a 
first down at the Irish 20. 

However Kelly went to the well once too often, and Smith read the play perfectly. With 46 ticks of the clock left, Smith picked otT the pass at the goal­line and returned it to the Irish 17 yard line to preserve the vic­tory. 
"The performance against Tennessee last year was the turning moment in my football life," says Smith. "I proved to myself that I could play in high­pressure situations." 
Smith should get the oppor­tunity to prove himself in more high-pressure situations next season with the pros calling. 
"He's got an opportunity to advance in football. He'll do well whatever he does," Cooper says. 
A chance to prove himself with the pros is something that Smith looks forward to. 
"I'm hoping to go to the (NFL) combines and do well," Smith says. "I've accepted bids to play in a couple of off-season (all­star) games. I'm excited to have the opportunity to show myself." 
To Rod Smith, football is only the means to an end, not the mean itself. 
"Football will be a way to 
see SMITH/page 4 


I ; 
'l 
J 













SE 

Tony-Smith \. William Pollard RCB 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 
Derek Bochna 

Ll ' Jl 
Lionel Fayard 

OLB Jl
PENN STATE 
Rich McKenzie Ryan Grube
~--QT

DEFENSE 
Lindsay Knapp 
t. a. Jordan Halter 
RT Lou BenfattiQG Mark Flythe HERO Aaron Taylor Darren Perry FB Tim Ruddy Geff Kerwin 

Jerome Bettis Ryan Mihalko 
Jl 
ILB 
Keith Goganious Willie Smith 
~

~ne McGuiret ~ Lance Johnson 
Ll asL l 
TB Rick Mirer NT Rodney Culver Jim Deter SAF
Paul Failla ~ TG Tony Brooks Kevin McDougal · Mirko Jurkovic Greg Troxell Lee Rubin 
George Poorman Todd Norman lTony Pittman 
•

Jl
t. a. 


ILB 
Jl

Brett Wright Brian Gelzheiser 
K 
~~stinHall 
Craig Hentrich ~~ Peter Rausch LT 


LCB
t. a.
p 
Rudy Glocker 


L HumphriesFL
Craig Hentrich Eric Ravotti 

Mark Graham 
Lake Dawson TE 
Jim Sexton 

Ray Griggs Derek Brown 
Jl 


OLB Jl
lrv Smith Reggie Givens 
Ll 
Ivory Gethers The ObserveoBrendan Regan 

Penn State 
Numerical Roster···;; 

Friday, November 15, 1991 

Irish Football '91 
1991 IRISH STATISTICS 

Name Po$ Ht Wt 1 Thomas, TiSei'iWA s~81so··· 3 LaBarca, Chip WR 5-10 180 4 Collins, Phil WR 5-11 180 4 Helkowski, Doug P 6-0 195 5 Fayak, Craig K 6-1 190 6 Humphries, l. CB 5-9 170 7 Rosa, Rich WR 6-1 190 8 Smith, Terry WR 5-8155 
9 Perry, Darren HERO 5-10 190 
10 Jett, Corey LB 6-0 205 
11 Gash, Sam FB 5-11 225 
12 Collins, Kerry QB 6-5 220 
13 Baggett, Matt S 6-0 200 
13 White, Dan OB 6-5 205 
14 Dreese, Jamie P 5-10 178 
14 Lucas, John S 6-0 188 

15 Yeboah-Kodie, F. CB 5-11 182 65 Lupo, Bob: T 6-1 225 
16 Gelzheiser, Brian ILB 6-2 225 16 Muscillo, V .J. K 5-8 190 17 Graham, Mark CB 5-9 170 17 Sacca, John QB 6-2 200 18 Drayton, Troy WR 6-3 220 19 Sacca, Tony QB 6-5 225 20 Anderson, Richie TB 6-1 210 21 Hammonds, S. TB 5-10 190 22 Nardolillo, Matt OB 6-1 200 23 Collins, Gerry TB 5-8 185 24 McDuffie, O.J. WR 5-11 185 25 Pittman, Tony CB 5-8 170 26 Grier, Rosey LB 5-11 210 27 Samuels, Bobby CB 6-0 185 28 Gigliotti, Jason HERO 6-0 195 28 Spoor, Bill WR 6-2 187 
.·.·.·,·.:.........·.·.-.-..·.·.·.·.·.·...·.·•·....-.·.·············· .. 

45 Kurlej, Brian S 5-11 203 · ·······46··Norton, Gregg WR 5-10 187 
47 Wright, Brett .ILB 6-1 225 48 Cisar, Chris HERO 6-0 188 49 Herb, Mark DB 5-11 165 52 Griffey, Andy T 6-4 265 55· Bematti, ·Lou DT 6-3 270 s$ Fields, Ron OLB 6;1: 230 sS~allag~r. Mac G !6~3 270 57 perak, John G 6-5..278 58 Olvens, Reggie OLB 6-0 218 59 Matesic,i Tqny G 6-2 265 60 OreeleyJ B~cky C ~~3 265 62 Heller, Mike G 6-t.255 62 Vance, Jerrod G 6~1 260 63 l3ass, Mi~) T 6-4 265 64 E.l.d~r...PauJ G 6-4 250 
66 Huntingtqr:J. Greg C 6-3 265 67 Burger, Todd T 6-3 270 68 Flythe, Mark DT 6-7 290 69 Pickett, Derick· T 6-5 275 70 Ceh, Bob KS 6-4 230 71 Rucci, Todd T 6-5 285 72 Deter, Jim NT 6-2 270 76 Siever, Paul G 6-5 278 77 Sandusky, E.J. C 6-4 260 78 Stewart, Vin T 6-4 270 79 Malinoski, Mike T 6-2 260 80 Brennan, Thad LB 5-11 220 81 Brady, Kyle TE 6-6 255 81 Oakman, Jason ILB 6-5 225 82 Perry, Jeff TE 6-3 245 83 Sayles, Rick TE 6-5 215 
29 O'Neal, Brian FB 6-1 227 84 Glocker, Rudy TE 6-5 235 30 Skrip, Dan WR 6-0 185 85 Pritchard, Perry DT 6-4 255 
Penn State offense worries Holtz .. 
31 Filkovski, Greg OLB 6-0 225 88 Renkey, Eric NT 6-2 275 33 Moser, Brian FB 6-1 228 89 Golden, AI TE 6-3 240 By DAVE DIETEMAN seeing," said Holtz. "Offensively Smith and McDuffie are a little 34 Forbes, Marlon CB 6-3 193 90 Dunmire, Brent TE 6-3 215 Sports Editor is where they're completely bit different. 35 Oakes, Bob FB 5-1 0 21 0 91 Castor, Craig T 6-2 245 different. Before, they were "They're the smaller, quicker 36 Monaghan, Brian CB 6-2 225 92 Troxell, Greg NT 6-2 258 Typically, preparing a game very conservative in their type and they're just as apt to 
catch a hitch and run 60 yards37 Gethers, Ivory CB 6-1 204 93 Wade, Tom OLB 6-2 250 plan for Penn State is no more approach. They always ran the ball well; they still do. But Tony with it as they are to run down
38 D'Onofrio, Mark ILB 6-2 233 94 Ravottl, Eric OLB 6-3 247 problematic than preparing for 
any team that lives by the run. Sacca, Terry Smith and O.J. the field and catch it 60 yards, ..
39 Rubin, Lee S 5-9 185 95 Powell, Andre ILB 6-2 225 
This season, however, Joe McDuffie make that a different continues Holtz ...Sacca protects 
41 Kerwin, Geff HERO 5-10 203 96 Grube, Ryan OLB 6-4 228 
Paterno and the Nittany Lions football team. the ball well and he's an awfully
42 Goganious, Keith ILB 6-3 234 97 Jackson, Tyoka DT 6-2 255 
have featured a surprisingly "Sacca has two outstanding good scrambler. He is really
43 Williams, Terence TB 5-11 210 98 Astle, Greg ILB 6-2 225 
potent aerial attack. receivers and a good tight end. having an excellent year." 43 Yeboah-Kodie, P. OLB 6-1 220 99 McKenzie, Rich OLB And that has Notre Dame These receivers are as good as Smith (48 catches) and 
coach Lou Holtz concerned. we play against. Carl Pickens McDuffie (40) have already "Defensively, this is the same was an outstanding receiver, as established several school Penn State team you're used to was Desmond Howard. But records. Most notably, this is the 

TE Kyle Brady 
PENN STATE 



FCB Troy Drayton 
Jeff Burris RE Marvin Robinson
OFFENSE 
l..l 



Germaine Holden Karl McGill
NOTRE DAME 
Jl 

LT ~
DEFENSE 
Mike Malinoski SLBPaul Siever 

I 
Demetrius DuBose Brian Ratigan• 

LG FS Bucky Greeley Willie Clark 
~~:hn Talia!ro l

Mac Gallagher Jeff Burris ~~Junior Bryant 

..li~ 


Jl 


MLB Pete Bereich ~J Sandusky 

A. Peterson

i, ( t. iL l.. ( t. iL Greg Huntington TB QB Gerry Collins Tony Sacca ss


~~~oyRidgle~ l 
Richie Anderson Kerry Collins Rod Smith
~~Jim Flanigan 

LeShane Saddler 
..li~ 
WB 


Jl
OLB 
OJ McDuffie John CovingtonRich Rosa 


Greg Davis K Craig Fayak VJ Muscilllo 
LE 
J l 
BCB p ~Devon McDonald Tom Carter Doug Helkowski ~~ Oliver Gibson Greg Lane Jamie Dreese 

..li ~ 

Jl 


first time that two Nittany Lion receivers have each hauled in more than 40 passes in a season. 
Thus far this season, the bulk of Penn State's running duties have fallen to a trio of talented tailbacks-Richie Anderson, Gerry Collins and Shelly Hammonds. As a group, the three have amassed 1,267 yards in ten games. 
Paterno's squad averages 36.5 points and 437.5 yards per game (204.6 rushing, 232.9 passing), and has only surren­dered an average of 13.4 points .. and 261.5 yards of total offense (90. 9 rushing, 170.6 passing) per game. 
Given how his offense has been performing, quarterback Tony Sacca, who became the Nittany Lions' all-time passing leader in both yardage (5,556) and completions (376), this season, may, by season's end, live up to his billing as the best quarterback in his class. 
Notre Dame must not only worry about McDuffie on of­fense, however, as he has vic­timized opposing special teams units with his return skills. McDuffie has piled up 282 yards and two touchdowns in 24 punt returns, with his longest run a 60-yarder against Maryland. He has also returned five kickoffs for 117 yards, the longest of which was a 49-yarder against Cincinnati. McDuffie also leads Penn State with 1,145 all­purpose yards (53 rushing, 693 
see OFFENSE/page 4 



-~ 

Irish Football '91 
page 4 


Photo courtesy of Penn State Sports Information Department Quarterback Tony Sacca (19) directs the Nittany Lion offense again this season. This is his fourth year as the starting quarterback. 
Offense 
continued from page 3 
receiving, 399 returning). 
Typically, tailback Richie Anderson handles the kick re­turn duties. Yet Anderson-who 
Smith 
continued from page 2 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and a guest prognosticator predict the outcomes of the week·s major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. Home teams are in CAPS. 
FSU 3.5 over Miami 
Wash. 42.5 over Oregon St. 
Michigan 10 over ILLINOIS 
FLA. 33.5 over Kentucky 
'Barna 11.5 over M'PHIS ST. 
CAL 14 over Arizona St. 
NEBRASKA 38 over Iowa St. 

. CLEMSON 25 over Maryland I i' 
! : TENN. 19 over Mississippi Iowa 20.5 over N'WSTERN 
i ~ OHIO ST. 4 over Indiana OKLA. 30 over Okla. St. VA. TECH 4.5 over E. carina 
I .
.. 
COLO. 19.5 over Kansas I ! PENN ST 4 over Notre Dame 
I 1 
I l 
!}
.
I , 
has run for 222 yards on nine returns-is nearly as dangerous as the wily McDuffie. In fact, Anderson, with 936 all-purpose yards ( 4 76 rushing, 238 receiving, 222 returning), is second only to McDuffie in that category. Wideout Terry Smith is third in all-purpose yards with 843. 
work in some aspect of investment banking. I want to complete my education and get out of football." 
Suffice it to say that whichever of those two fields 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 


Dave Dleteman AI Lesar 

South Bend Saint Mary's Associate AssociateSports Editor 
Tribune senior Sports Editor Sports Editor 
72-57-6 

70-59-6 68-61-6 67-62-6 66-63-6 Last week's guest: 9-5-1 
Hurricanes Hurricanes Seminoles SeminolesSeminoles Huskies Huskies Beavers HuskiesHuskies 

lllini 

Wolverines lllini lllini
Wolverines Wildcats 

Gators Gators GatcrsGators Crimson Tide
Crimson lide Tigers Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Golden Bears 
Golden Bears Golden Bears Golden BearsGolden Bears Corn huskers 
Cyclones Cyclones Corn huskers Cyclones Terrapins ligers T~gers Terrapins TigersRebels 
Volunteers Volunteers Volunteers
Rebels Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Wildcats Wildcats Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes
Cowboys

Cowboys Sooners Sooners Cowboys
Pirates 

Pirates Pirates PiratesPirates 
Jay hawks 

Buffaloes Buffaloes Jay hawks Buffaloes Nittany Lions Irish
Irish Irish Irish 
Irish fall to 12th in latest NCSW football poll 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
In suffering their second loss of the season, the Notre Dame football team plummeted to 12th in the National Collegiate Sportswriter's Poll, while Tennessee cracked the top ten. 
Notre Dame's opponent next week, Penn State, stayed at number eight despite a 47­7 thrashing of Maryland. 
California took advantage of ND's loss, bounding over Penn State into sixth with a 27-14 win over Oregon State. 
The top four contenders for 25. (-) Brigham Young 7·3 35 11/16 at San Diego Stale the national title, Florida State, Washington, Miami and 
Others receiving votes: Bowling Green 22. Georgia 20, UCLA 20, Air Michigan, remained static Force 10, Fresno State 10, Tulsa 10, San Diego State 5, Indiana 4, with decisive wins this week, Arkansas 3, TCU 3, Cornell 2, Kansas State 2, LSU 2, Houston 1, Nevada 1, Pittabulllh 1.
while the Florida Gators 
Bold incicaiM NO opponent

assumed the vacated fifth 
slot. Schools participa1ing: Alabama, Arizona State, Ball State, Brigham Georgia, UCLA, Indiana, Young. Colorado, Columbia, Cornell, Duke, Indiana, Kansas, Miami, Michigan, Nebraska, North Carolina State, Notre Dame, Oregon,
and Arkansas surrendered 
Oregon State, Penn State, Purdue, Southern Cal, Syracuse, Texas.the bottom four spots in poll, Virginia. West Virginia, Wisconsin. while Virginia, Stanford, 
Illinois, and Brigham Young are newcomers. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

LIONS TO WATCH 

Friday, November 15, 1991 



.. 
~~ 
:---­
i.-' 
-~-. ~ 
Joe Paterno 

In his career, the Nittany Lions' coach has a winning percentage of .83 in the month of November, which includes seven wins (and three losses) against Notre Dame. However Paterno is only 3-2 against the Irish during Lou Holtz's tenure. Paterno has guided Penn State to two national championships, in addition to six undefeated and untied regular seasons. 
Tony Sacca 

The senior quarterback from Delran, N.J., victimized Notre Dame for 277 passing yards last season. The three touchdown passes which he threw in that game are a career high for the player who was billed as the best pro prospect at his position coming into college. This season, he is 144-245 for 2,175 yards, five interceptions and 18 touchdowns. 


2 

1111D 11/S Ale. 
1. 2. 3. -4. 5. 6. 7. 
B. 9. 
10. 11. 12. 13. 1-4. 15. 16. 17. 
11t 
19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(o4) 
(6) (9) 
(7) 
(8) (10) (13) (11) (5) 
(12) 
(14) (17) (15) (16) (19) (20) (21) (-) (18) (-) (-) 
1()-() 

9-() 8·0 8-1 8-1 California 8-1 Alabama 8-1 
Penns.... 8-2 
Iowa 8-1 Tenneuee 6-2 Nebraska 7·1·1 Notre Dame 8·2 Te•asA&M 6·1 Clemson 1·1·1 Syracuse 7·2 East Carolina 8-1 Colorado 6·2·1 Ohio State 7·2 Oklahoma 7·2 Baylor 7·2 Virginia 7-2·1 N.C. Stale 7·2 s..nford 6·3 IUinois 6·3 
,.. 
..... me 
620 11/16 YS. Miarri 592 11/16 at Oregon State 576 11/16 at Florida State 551 11116 at llfinois 523 11116 vs. Kentucky4n 11116 vs. Arizona State 468 11116 at Merfllhis State 4-42 11116 vs. Notre Dame 422 11/16 at Northwestern 399 11/16 vs. Mississippi 372 11116 vs. Iowa State 353 11/16 at Penn Stale 330 11/16 vs. Arkansas 289 11116 vs. Maryland 284 11116 vs. Boston College 264 11/16 at Virginia Tech 248 11/16 vs. Kansas 204 11/16 vs. Indiana 194 11116 vs. Oklahoma State 149 11116 vs. Texas Tech 123 11123 vs. Virginia T eoh 62 11116 at Duke 55 11/16 at Washington State -47 11116 VI. Michigan 



Keith Goganlous 
The 6-3, 234 lb. senior inside linebacker is second on the team in tackles among active players. His 45 tackles (23 solo, 22 assisted) stands behind safety Lee Rubin (48) and linebacker Mark D'Onofrio (54). Because D'Onofrio is out for the season with a shoulder injury, Goganious has become a leader of the Nittany Lion defensive corps. 
. 


Rene Ferran Anthony King Associate Assistant Sport· Sports Editor Editor 63-66-6 60-69-6 
Seminoles Seminoles 
Beavers Huskies Wolverines Wolverines Wildcats Wildcats Crimson Tide Crimson lide Golden Bears Golden Bears Cornhuskers Corn huskers T~gers Terrapins Rebels Volunteers Wildcats Wildcats Buckeyes Buckeyes Sooners Cowboys Pirates Pirates Jayhawks Buffaloes 
IrishIrish 



Greer Gilliland Rich Kurz Dave McMahon 






