.i\ .
I . 
-I :.,;. I _' ) . _ __.· ; ,j 

VOL. XXIV NO. 72 
FRIDAY , DECEMBER 13, 1991 
TH~ INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Grazin: Political 'death' of USSR happened earlier 
By AMY MARK News Writer 
The "death" of the Soviet Union is not as recent an event as is usually believed. 
"Politically, the death of the Soviet Union may have hap­pened earlier, but legally, it ended Sunday," said Igor Grazin, a former Estonian rep­resentative of the Supreme So­viet and a professor at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Law School. 
The decision by the leaders of Russia, Ukraine and Byelorus­sia to create a new common­wealth open to all former re­publics of the Soviet Union means that what was known as the U.S.S.R. truly has ceased to exist, Grazin said. 
The ultimate result will per-
Bill of Rights 
reaches 200 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
The founding fathers of America showed unforeseen wisdom when they ratified the Bill of Rights nearly 200 years ago, according to Patrick Fur­long, professor of history at Indiana University at South Bend. 
"The creators of the Bill of Rights lived through the Ameri­can Revolution and had to deal with the British government that threatened the rights of the people," Furlong said. "Although they had no immedi­ate threats to their personal liberty after the Revolution, they foresaw the need to pro­tect and ensure the individual rights of the people. So they drew up the Bill of Rights and amended it to the U.S. Constitu­tion." 
December 15, to be exact, marks the 200th anniversary of the adoption of the Bill of Rights. The Bill of Rights are the first ten amendments to the 
U.S. Constitution affecting indi­vidual rights and liberties, such as the freedom of speech, reli­gion and the press. 
But times have changed in America since 1791, and the Bill of Rights has lost some of its value and significance to many Americans. 

"People generally don't seem to understand and take for granted what civil liberties are until their own are threatened," Furlong said. 
Furlong said that the Bill of Rights and its protection of in­dividual rights are more impor­tant now than ever as the fed­eral government grows more active and powerful in making and shaping the laws. 
"When the government wants to do something that threatens civil liberties, most people don't react," Furlong said. "Most people don't worry about un­lawful search and seizure be­
cause  they  think  it  only  
happens  to  drug  dealers  
anyway."  

Until it hits close to home, 
see RIGHTS I page 4 
haps be "something equivalent to what Europe is today, but...less integrated, politically," he said. He believes that as much as 85 percent of the republics will become unified, but is uncertain that the Baltic states will join. 
· "The three Slavic republics: Russia, Ukraine, and Byelorus­sia, will pick up the rest of the republics one by one," he said. He feels this "commonwealth of friendly states" will take on a bureaucracy organization. 
Concerning the future of President Mikhail Gorbachev, Grazin says that politically and legally, his time is over. . "There is no country he can be president of. . . there are no structures or things Gorbachev has to fight for," Grazin said. He noted Gorbachev's desire to 
reconvene the Congress he dis­solved last September to deal with the present events. "The Congress is where he had got­ten his power; . . . the source of legality for Gorbachev, the bal­ance for Gorbachev.. .is gone," he said. 
"There is nothing and nobody except Gorbachev himself left," Grazin stated. He says that Gorbachev has overstepped his time and should give up his personal ambitions and resign. 
Grazin expressed admiration for how all violence has been avoided thus far. "People have been wiling and are re.ady to accept changes," he said. 
However, he does express concern about lack of central authority and different factions of the Soviet army. The lack of a central authority "increases the risk of an inter-army civil war" and poses "a threat as a potential anarchy, ...an armed anarchy," he said. He explained that this is why Russian leader Boris Yeltsin is negotiating with district commands of the armies. 
"This is a real concern," said Grazin, regarding the status of nuclear weapons in the states. It wa'l believed that these weapons would be moved to Russia before any dissolution of the Soviet Union. "But now it's happened backwards, and we have four new states with nuclear capability," said Grazin. 
Now that black-box control has been given to the republics, it will be more complicated to launch a nuclear defense. There is stronger control now that it has been given to four different political elements. 
In regard to the U. S. role during this historical trans­formation, Grazin says it is wise that President Bush be neutral. Although he is 99 percent positive that the commonwealth will completely replace the Soviet Union, he notes that the United States must also heed to the one percent of uncertainty remaining. 
Grazin called U.S. Secretary of State James Baker the "new Mikhail Gorbachev." 
"Before, Gorbachev's main role was to mediate and nego­tiate the republics," said Grazin. "Now, that will fall to James Baker. And, of course, that is good because Baker's popularity and authority are higher in the republics than Gorbachev." 


( .;~" _., 
I a; ' 
t 
·> 't 
111 ;~ 
1 ,., .. 
t ! j
~ 
.~ i 
I
1 ' !'I ~-t 
~rlC
t ; . ··'>l
,.,
Ii ' 
'!I \ 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Lighting up the night 
These trees outside of the Administration Building and St. Edward's Hall are adorned with elaborate Christmas lights; just part of Notre Dame's "high energy" Christmas. 

Vore publishes account of relationship with Burtchaell 
By MONICA YANT News Editor 

Prompted by the belief that a sense of denial still clouds the case surrounding the sexual misconduct of Father James Burtchaell, Michael Vore has published the account of his experiences with the Notre Dame theology professor. 
"Father Burtchaell, Denial of Homosexuality and Notre Dame Abuses" appears in today's issue of Common Sense. 
"There's still people that don't want to see what B'urtchaell did," Yore told The Observer Thursday. "I don't think people have acknowledged his weaknesses, that he abused people. 
"I want there to be no ques­tion in peoples' minds what happened." 
Burtchaell resigned last week amid charges of sexual mis­conduct with male undergradu­ate students. His resignation is effective at the end of his sab­batical this summer. 

Yore publicly identified him­self as a victim of Burtchaell's misconduct this week in the Na­tional Catholic Reporter. 
He said he is aware that his account in Common Sense will be shocking to many. "These are not healthy expressions of 
• Burtchaell letter/ page 4 
fiomosexuahty. 

"I know it's uncomfortable, I know it's disgusting,"· he said referring to the fact that he is describing an abusive relation­ship. 
Vore's need to tell his story is part of the process of healing for abuse victims, according to Mark Jordan, professor of me­dieval studies who said he was a victim of sexual abuse as a child. 
"In any situation of sexual 
abuse, the first people to be forgotten are the victims. The systems of silence that ignore abuse while it is happening try to repress it once it is spoken aloud," Jordan said. 
"And the easiest way to re­press it is to pretend that no one has been hurt." 
In his account, Yore traces the development of his relationship with Burtchaell. 
Because he was depressed for much of his undergraduate years, Yore found himself seek­ing an advisor with whom to discuss his problems. Vore said he and Burtchaell met approx­imately 10 times between Octo­ber 1984 and April 1985, with their discussions leading to the topic of intimacy. 
From this point, Yore writes, their relationship changed. Vore writes that subsequent meetings involved sexual con-
see VORE I page_4 


Editor comments 
By MONICA YANT News Editor 
Although Michael Yore's ac~ count of his relationship with 
. ·.Father )ames Burtchaell b~.h comes .detailed at times. "Common Sense.. Editor Jeremy Manier said he believes the atticle is necessary to inform the community about the Burtchaell case. 
"There's so much speculation going around about it."' Manier said...Ifpeople just understal:ld what (Yore's) attitude toward the whole thiJlg was, it mig1lt
end the speculation." ··. ·:,,., An added motivation for run­ning Vore's aceountwas the fact that the University has yet 
see EDITOR! page 4 


page 2 The Observer Friday, Decembe 13,1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Why silence on 


handling of Burtchaellcase? 
Wednesday night, my------­

friend Willie called me from Boston. The call was not entirely a social one. 
"Isn't personal hygiene a culturally-relative phe­nomenon?" 
I dunno, Willie. You're 
Dave 
been hitting the Jack 

Dieteman Daniels again, right? Sports Editor . 
"Here in Boston, __.:....._...;..:____ everybody's always griping that democracy, capitalism, gender roles and believing in Jesus Christ himself all just depend on the zip code of the hospital delivery room you got deposited in." I don't know. He was slurring his words a bit, and I fig­ured that he probably had been sucking down some liquid Christmas cheer. "So Dave, what's so different about personal hygiene?" Again, I didn't know. "Most Europeans aren't as wrapped up in cleanliness as us Americans. When I hitchhiked through Yugoslavia this summer, the people in each town seemed to have their own particular scents-and they didn't come in bottles. I was reading in some magazine that most of the deodorant sold in the world is sold in the good ole U.S. of A. In France, you could find perfume as easy as wine or stale bread. But try and find some Right Guard." Willie, it's almost 1 a.m. It's the last week of classes, and I've got more than enough to do.· Why don't we just get in touch over break? "Hold on. I've got one more thing to ask you." He wasn't slurring his words anymore. "Why are Ed Manier and the gay and les­bian clubs the only ones at Notre Dame talking about this Burtchaell thing?" After listening to him drone for two hours. I had nearly forgotten that Willie was not only able to read, but a subscriber to NCR and The Observer (Willie graduated from ND in 1989). "Doesn't anybody else have anything to say about this? I mean, what the heck went on that they busted Burtchaell in April {or August, depending on whose tall tales you buy) and now everybody outside of the Star Chamber under the Dome hears about it, like eight months later?" Willie, if I knew that I'd take my story to somebody who cared. "Are all the people with opinions on this thing up for tenure soon or something?" I wouldn't be surprised.· "Are profs afraid of losing their jobs? Are kids afraid of losing their friends? Why doesn't somebody come out and say 'The university just handled this like a bunch of fumbling incompetents. It has nothing to do with wanting to repress discussion of ho­mosexuality.' "Of course, maybe it does. Maybe some of the people high up in that administration aren't being genuine about what they believe? Maybe the Monk just doesn't want to see Cardinal Ratzinger on campus." Again, I had no answer to give him. "Well, Merry Christmas." And Happy New Year, Willie. 
The uiews contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
Friday's Staff: 

Production  Accent  
Peggy Crooks  Shonda Wilson  
Bryan Nowicki  Gerrie Hamilton  
Sports  Cristina Oritz  
Jennifer Marten  Lab Tech  
News  Mary Hueckel  
Frank Rivera  Illustrations  
Steve Zavetowski  Dave Devine  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
L 
34 
33 
23 29 05 04 29 16 74 31 07 43 53 76 
43 
40 32 
36 
37 57 
48 43 South Bend 32 10 

Pr9SSure 
Tokyo 61 48 f7Al 
Washington, D.C. 55 38
H L bill~[TIJ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Assodlllfld Press 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
• Jailed kingpin orders murder 
Bogota -Surrendered cocaine kingpin Pablo Escobar has turned his luxury jail into a "general headquarters" from which he has ordered the assassination of a former justice minister. the official contends. The former minister has become Colombia's leading critic of a government policy that offers lenient treatment to drug traffickers in return for their surrender. 

NATIONAL 
• New act in Keating case 
Los Angeles -Federal criminal charges against former Lincoln Savings owner Charles Keating Jr. open a new act in the long drama of the costliest savings and loan failure in U. S. history. Keating and four former associates were to surrender to federal marshals for booking yesterday. eight days after the Arizona land developer was convicted of securities fraud in state court. 

OF INTEREST 
• A Philosophy class has been added: Philosophy 
258-Philosophy and Poverty. It will be held from 12:15 -1:05 MWF. The instructor is Robert Martin. 
MARKET UPDATE 

• Army video to prevent fratricide 
Washington -The army is making a first-of-its-kind training video tape to help tank gunners avoid battlefield misjudgments of the kind blamed for the most deadly U. 
S. "friendly fire" incident in the Persian Gulf War. The tape is one of several training aids and other initiatives the Army is working on after studying the incidents of fratricide during the ground war against Iraq. 
• Art donors display generosity 
New York -The San Diego Historical Society already knows what ifs getting for Christmas: a set of vintage Lionel trains. A museum in Rhode Island has asked for an exotic 17th-century Turkish towel. At the Metropolitan Museum. it's been Christmas all year. Over the last 11 months the Met has been given $28.3 million worth of art by donors, almost six times what it received in 1990, including important works by Degas and Pissaro, and an outstanding collection of pre-Columbian gold. 
• A Chamber music recital with clarinet, viola and piano will be performed on Saturday, December 14, at 3 
p.m. at the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. Faculty member Christine Rutledge on viola, clarinetist Richard Hawkins and pianist Laura Ward of 
the University of Michigan will perform music by Mozart, Schumann, Clarke and Bruch. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
cec. 13 

•In 
1928: George Gershwin's musical work "An American in Paris" had its premiere, at Carnegie Hall in New York. 

•In 
1944: During World War II, a Japanese "kamikaze" plane crashed into the U.S. cruiser "Nashville," killing 138 crewmen. 

• 
In 1978: The Philadelphia Mint began stamping the Susan 

B. 
Anthony dollar, which went into circulation the following July. 

• 
In 1981: Authorities in Poland imposed martial law in a crackdown on the Solidarity labor movement. 


• ~ • • • • • • • • ~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • & • J 

The Observer 

Friday, December 13,1991 
page 3 

Kockler receives Air Force ROTC award 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior James Kockler of Allegheny, NY re­ceived the United Services Automobile Association (USAA) Scholarship Award as the top 1991 Air Force ROTC pilot candidate nationwide. 
The scholarship, $1,500 to­ward college expenses, and a commemorative brass clock was presented by Lt. Col.· John Walker of USAA during special ceremonies at the Air Force ROTC regional commander's conference at Wright-Patterson AFB in early November. 
Kockler is the 1991 Fall Semester Corps Commander for the 225th Cadet Group at Notre Dame, and is responsible for the planning and execution of all activities involving the unit's 150 Air Force ROTC cadets. 
He is a graduate of the U.S. Army's Airborne school in Fort Benning, GA, and 
currently holds  a  private  
pilot's  license.  Upon  
commission  as  a  Second  

Lieutenant he is scheduled to attend undergraduate pilot training with the Air Force. 

Sat., Dec. 14th 

JACC VARSI1Y SHOP Enter at Gate 3 
Sale on Our High Quality Merchandise 
20% -30% -50°Aa OFF Selected nems 10°A. oil our regular priced items with student 1.0. 
9:00 AM • 5:00 PM 
DOOR PRIZES EVERY HOOR STARTING AT NOON 
~--~-----­




GSU discusses insurance; new appointments made 
By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer · 
Health insurance and new appointments to the Graduate Student Union were some of the issues discussed at the final GSU meeting of the semester this past Wednesday night. 
Twenty-two graduate stu­dents responded to a health in­surance survey enclosed in the University Village Newsletter, according to the GSU. 
The GSU found that approx­imately half of the graduate students that responded to the survey have health insurance for their spouses or children, while a third of them have in­surance for both; and, seven­teen grad students use the Women Infants Children (WIC) social service for their families, ten have Medicaid and four use food stamps and various free social services to provide for their families while studying at Notre Dame. 
A resolution to call on Father Malloy, as President of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, to issue 

Need A Spring Break? 
Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas 

The VIti.::~=Experience! ' ( Calll-800..J59..9808 Today] .,., 
Christmas 
at the 

Notre Dame Golf Shop 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 

a statement on the resignation 
of Father Burtchaell was dis­
carded by the GSU. 
The GSU did draft a letter to 
NO Security regarding its policy 
on date rape. The GSU calls on 
the Security Department to 
change its policy in distinguish­
ing between rape and date rape 
and to acknowledge the seri­
ousness of rape no matter who 
commits it, according to Kurt 
Mills, president of GSU. 
The GSU plans to deal with the issue of student loans and the Student Accounts' policy of using students' outside loans to pay ofT the students' outstand­ing debts right away rather than little by little. An install­ment plan would allow students to pay ofT debts gradually, while having enough money to spend in the meantime. 
The GSU Quality of Life committee is sending out sur­veys to graduate students re­garding child care before the semester break and during spring enrollment. The com­mittee plans to report its find­ings to the Board of Trustees on February 6. 
Christy Rieger is the new chair of the GSU library com­mittee. Students with concerns about the library should con­tact her. 
The GSU is looking for a new social officer to take the place of Mee-Ae Kim. Students inter­ested should contact the GSU at their office in room 200 in LaFortune or call at 239-6963 . 
••THE FAMilY SUGGESTS 11--W 
ME/v\ORJALCQ\ITRIBLJllONS BE MADE 101HE AMERICAN 

CAN:ER 5CCIETV•• 


e4 The Observer Friday, December 13,1991 
Burtchaell's statement printed in NCR 
Editor's note: The following is a reprint ofa statement by Father James Burtchaell printed in the National 
Catholic Reporter in the Dec. 
13 issue. · 
Last year when I began a research leave from teaching 1 acknowledged to my provincial superior and to the Notre Dame administra­tion that I had behaved to* wards some former univer­sity students in ways that were wrong, and which which I very much regretted. 
The administration asked me to resign from my pro­fessorship. After 25 years of very active service, that was not easy tQ contemplate~ But other unrelated reasons of my own persuaded me to ae­cede to their request. and I agreed to submit my resig+ nation effective at the end of this academic year. 
I saw whatI had done as a default in my responsibilities as a priest~ a member of a religious brotherhood, and a mentorr one that ] had greater re~son to.geplore. >?' than did those ·who\vished me to leave. 
a~~:r~:l£ih~yayeatand 
Mfconc~rn since · · 
·::;:::::;:::::::::::::-:··-· .-····... : 





Vore 
continued from page 1 
tact between the two men, and claims that Burtchaell said in a letter that the activity was "in sound continuity" with the counseling on intimacy. 
Vore acknowledges that peo­ple might read his account and assume that he has come for­ward only because of his 
Rights 
continued from page 1 
Furlong said, many people don't take their civil liberties seriously, and by then, it's usu­ally too late. 
Everyday Americans exercise and enjoy their individual rights. As a Catholic institution, ranged well beyond the a.c* tual points of complaint, for it would be foolish to scrape off only some rust and then paint over the rest. With wise professional help and loving support I have been trying to inventory the full range of forces and faults that have compromised my self and my service over the years. 
I have been making amends by offering apology to people I have offended and receiving their forgive­ness, and I have been trying to submit to whatever trans· formation the Lord affords me. It has been a strenuous and difficult time.• but a time for ctJ.astening, ¢onversit>Il and peace. 
Outwardly things have not been so peaceful. I shall leave Notre Dame which be­came mybome 40 years ago this fall. But.that will he a timely. way to learn bett~r that one is a sojourner here. not a resident: . .· 
And there has been humUi­ation•. My friends have al.. ways sa,id f c()q~q hel1efit.~Y some. hnmiliation.lp.on~t know ifthey had this much 
Some of my colleagues and my confreres have launched what they knew of my story on the winds of biodegrad­able gossip. Journalists were approached to ensure that some version of it would ap* pear in the press, and even­tually a journal that deals in this genre published what it could make of it. The story as written. in which innu· endo supplements, enhances and replaces information, implies some things that are not true. My real faults are concern enough without fie­tional ones besides. 
Among the weaknesses I am.still grappling with in this tlme of moral aud self· review, anger remains a be~ devilment. lam vexed at my­self for sp(>iling service with seltishness.l am grieved by a few of rriy brothers--col~ leagues and.confreres-.··who seem to wish annihilation more than conversion. 
l have prefiched the re~ent­less love of Jesus who died dEWPted to those who de­sf,roy~d l find Jam not yet·· eno~gh dis., ...... ·.·•• ciplf~Jn Pray that I .... . 

in but Lord .•·•••••·•••·•••··•·ffii~v~;rlf.lthylret;2 ·.... Jn the end, 
agenda of promoting gay and most recently pushed for the lesbian issues as Co-Chair of adoption of "Safe Haven" reso­Gays and Lesbians at Notre lutions in the residence halls. Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), but said these assumptions are Vore said he decided to pub­incorrect. lish his experience partially to 
"I didn't come into this life help his own recovery, partially with an agenda," he said. "But to help the community recover. as I thought about things, an "I feel a peculiar responsibil­agenda showed up." ity to the Notre Dame commu­
Vore said that his experiences nity," he said. "I wanted to with Burtchaell are directly re­make sure people heard this di­sponsible for this agenda that rectly from me." 
the University of Notre Dame is founded on the freedom of religion, Furlong said. Every so often these constitu­tional rights are challenged and tested, added Furlong. "The Bill of Rights are not ideal, perfect, foolproof forms of protection for the rights of individuals," Furlong said. ''But they provide a standard of what  ought to be the case and what the American people and government should try to live up to."  
Happy 20th ­Lu Ann ''Dec 19th"  
Alot of wonderful tlinlll happen at Chrllbnal time...  
Happy Birthday to one of them.  
Lon you, Mom and Dad  



Editor 
continued from page 1 

to make a statement about the Burtchaell case, according to Manier. 
"The University has been stonewalling this," he said, even though Vore, Burtchaell and the Holy Cross Order have all released statements. 
An editorial appearing in today's issue explains the decision as being motivated by a desire to have questions about the case answered. The editors cite the issue of accountability as a primary concern and question who in the University administration knew about the Burtchaell case and when. 
The editorial also explains that the editors view Vore's article as an important means to promote dialogue about sexual abuse or harassment. "Again, the aim is to educate ourselves about such experiences, to produce an informed, more mature and less phobic environment," the editorial says. 
the 
.17:11 ~ 
..., 1:..4:11. 7:..1:11 •ra.1:-. 4:-. 1:-.1:11 




MY GIRL 
A family film. ~ ...,li::..7:11. 1:41 ...... 1!:11. !:41, li::..7:..1:41 
The editors also address the issue of ecclesiastical and pastoral reforms, saying that "by coming to terms with the seriousness of this problem insofar as it is causing persistent pastoral scandal, we are entering a potentially wholesome process of reform." 
Manier said that the decision to run Vore's account in "Common Sense" was made by the majority of the editorial board. The decision was not drawn out and the board had few reservations, he added. 
"We treated it like any other piece," he said. 
Between five and nine people are involved in editorial board decisions, which Manier said rarely come to a vote. The board is comprised of faculty and students. 
"Common Sense" is a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College in­dependent monthly publication devoted to the examination of social justice issues in a variety of perspectives, Manier said. 
It does not receive money or office space from the University. Manier said that funding for "Common Sense" comes from donations, subscriptions and advertising. 
[R of RID{ 

1119111 -YBlrllllaylllll 

Everyday is a special day at Le Bon Tern~" Roule. We offer are~t beer & drink specials everyday of the week, a vast selccuon or imported beer, delicious buraen, out.sunding chiH. po-boys &. b:u snacks. 
Now for a little lagniappe: Fri. (7-10) oysten on the half sheU are free. 
So if you're looking to let the good times roll in the greatest city in the USA. and wantlO see for yourself what makes a great New Orleans neighborhood bar, stop on by & let the good times roU. 

\.t.~bttP.sROO!e.. 
ut;:~ "'BOJ MA~t 
695-6117 
•. • •--.. .• '"' • .. . '-' .. -• • -.. • • .,_ • -.., ao ,. ... a ._ • ,..,_ • ~ ... ·• .. "' • .-• -< ~ • _. 


------------------------------~------------~~~----------------~~--·--~ 
, 

Friday, December 13,1991 The Observer page 5 
Rushdie pledges 'Verses' paperback 
NEW YORK(AP) -In a sur­prise speech, British author-in­hiding Salman Rushdie re­nounced his attempts to placate Muslims offended by "The Sa­tanic Verses" and pledged to publish a paperback edition of the book. 
In his first public appearance outside England since Iran called for his death for the 1988 novel, Rushdie pronounced his conciliatory overtures toward Islam "stillborn." 
The novel, which prompted Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in 1989 to call for Rushdie's death, "must be freely available and easily affordable, if only because if it is not read and studied, then all these years (in hiding) will have no meaning," he said in a speech at Columbia University Wednesday night. 
Earlier this year, Rushdie said he regretted writing "The Satanic Verses," and would sti­fle the paperback release and all future translations. 
But Iran reaffirmed the as­sassination order and doubled the multimillion-dollar bounty on his head, despite Khomeini's death and the rise to power of more moderate leaders. 
Some Muslim leaders de­nounce the book as blasphe­mous, especially a passage in which the author gave several prostitutes the names of the prophet Mohammed's wives. 
In announcing plans for a paperback edition, Rushdie said he had waited "long enough" for a sign of accommodation. 
That declaration appeared to take his British publisher, Pen­guin, by surprise. 
"We have not seen the text of what he actually said," spokesman Bob Gregory said in London. "Our position has not changed. There is no date set 

for publication of a paperback edition." Penguin would try to get in touch with Rushdie, he said. 
The author's appearance was announced only minutes before he took the rostrum. His en­trance was met with gasps and then a standing ovation. 
He arrived on campus amid tight security; doors in the li­brary where he spoke were locked after he arrived and not opened until his departure. Columbia paid for private secu­rity and New York City police were also on hand. 
He spoke at a dinner marking the 200th anniversary of the First Amendment, held by the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. Joan Konner, dean of the school, said Rushdie came to the United States at the school's invitation and would return shortly to England. 

The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

A miniature Sacred Heart 
This commemorative ornament of Sacred Heart is the second in a limited edition of NO Christmas ornaments. Made by Stan Williams, 

ADVENT CELEBRATE THE SEASON FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 
333 N. Main St., South Bend (corner of Main & Madison) Parking available behind the church SUNDAY SERVICES 8:45AM-INFORMAL CELEBRATION SERVICE 11:00 AM-TRADITIONAL SERVICE 
9:45 AM -Sunday School for all ages Dr. Alan Byrne, Senior Pastor Tim Robinson, Music Director/Organist · Cindy Solum, Christian Education Director 
Leaving your car on cam_pus during break? PLEASE park in the D-2 parking lot_ TN.s lot w-ill be locked during the break_ Should -y---ou need to get your vehicle out of the lot during the break you w-ill need to contact :t~_D_ Security_ ~fhanks __ .. _anct have a safe break_ 
Il 1\ PPY J-I()l~ll)t\ YS 
l:rom I~<>tre Dame ;:;ecurity 



Happy Holidays 

'~~ 

* 



From Your Friends At... 


J.Kfi~co. 

~ 
...... .,­

Family Owned and Operated 
5624 Grape Rd., Mishawaka, IN 46545 1225 E. Ireland Rd., South Bend, IN 46614 4714 W. Western Ave., South Bend, IN 46619 



. ' 
~ ' ~ • ' -• • .. J ----­
The Observer 
page6 Friday, December 13,1991 
Breast cancer detection increases 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Decades ing: 88 in 100,000 women in die from the disease. 
of breast cancer research have 1973 compared with 110 per The GAO report, requested by improved detection and 100,000 in 1988, the latest year Rep. Ted Weiss, D-N.Y., chair­treatment options for women for which figures are available. man of the subcommittee, said but have made no progress in "Some of the increase is ap­some of the increase in inci­preventing the disease, parently due to better diagnos­dence likely reflects a true in­according to a congressional tic measures; we're finding it crease in the amount of breast report. faster and at an earlier and cancer, while some can be ex­
More women are being diag­more treatable stage," said Dr. plained by better detection ef­nosed with breast cancer today Bernadine Healey, director of forts. 
-currently one in nine will get the National Institutes of Mortality rates from breast it in her lifetime -but death Health. cancer have remained relatively rates from the disease have re­"Yet, some of the increase constant: 26 deaths permained virtually level since the mystifies us," she told the 100,000 women in 1973 and 27 early 1970s. House Government Operations per 100,000 in 1988, the report
"We must conclude that there subcommittee on human re­said. has been no progress in pre­sources. "There's no magic bullet in venting the disease," Richard An estimated 175,000 Ameri­sight" to cure the disease, Ge­Linster of the General Account­can women will be diagnosed orge Silberman, assistant direc­
ing Office, which wrote the re­with breast cancer this year, tor of the GAO study, told the port, told a congressional sub­while 44,500 are expected to panel.committee Wednesday. 
The "critical obstacles" in the fight against breast cancer are the gaps in fundamental knowl­edge·about the disease-princi­pally, what causes it, he said. "Research in this area is a cru­cial priority." 
Most of the important risk factors that have been identi­fied, including age and heredity, cannot be modified, he noted. And the known risk factors account for only 20 percent to 30 percent of all cases, he said. 
The report concluded that while "many breast cancer pa­tients live longer and better than their predecessors, ...we do not seem to be winning the war against breast cancer."
Sophomore Derek Schnack gets his hair trimmed before going 
Scientists are not sure why
home for break to trim the Christmas tree. 
incidence of the disease ·is ris-
Berrien Springs plane crash kills Mich. man, injures two 
BERRIEN SPRINGS, Mich. Wednesday when they radioed (AP)-A Vicksburg, Mich., man Michiana Regional Airport in was killed and two men were South Bend that they were hav­injured Wednesday afternoon ing trouble and were going to when the single-engine plane try to land at the Andrews Uni­they were in crashed into a versity Airport in Berrien wooded area near the St. Springs. Joseph River north of Berrien Springs. About two minutes later, 
someone on Bluff View north of 


Norman Nelson, 56, a pas­Berrien Springs-Oronoko senger in the plane, died in the Township police said it took po­crash. Another passenger, lice and firemen about 25 min­
ONE LARGE

Dennis VanStrien, 35, of Kala­utes to find the plane, which mazoo, was listed in serious was about 30 yards from the 
PEPPERONI PIZZA
condition this morning at river. Bronson Methodist Hospital in 
FOR $6.99 PLUSTAX
Kalamazoo. The pilot, Gary Dunn, 38, of Bronson, Mich., 
CALL 232-2499 FOR DELIVERY
was listed in stable condition at Berrien General Hospital in 
Must Show N.D. or S.M.C. ID. 
Berrien Center. 
The three were on their way back to Kalamazoo from Mis­souri at about 4:25 p.m. 
OPEN TILL 3 A.M. 
Friday 11-13 -Thursday 11/19 Finals week open till 3:00 a.m. 
Papa John's wishes all students and faculty a Merry Chr~tmas. 
We deliver to all class room buildings 

40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

Finals week special
Live Tutorial 

2 LargeOne 4 Large
National 800 Telephone Helpline 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
I1/I3 • II/I9 7:00 close 
• 
Topping for One Topping One Large $S.9S 
$I0.9S for $I9.9S
One Topping +tax
!DUCl!IOUL '~m 
SOUTH BEND 

271-1177
273-1866 



~'t.
Ll

Lawyers criticize Smith trial prosecutors 
....................................................--------~----------.---------------~~---~ 
The Observer

Friday, December 13,1991 page 7 
• 
WASHINGTON (AP) Prominent defense lawyers are sharply critical of the prosecu­tion in the William Kennedy Smith trial. One lawyer called it abysmal. 
They view the speed with which the Palm Beach County jury came back with an acquit­tal an indictment of how the prosecutor handled the case. 
"She did an awful job in every respect," says Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz, speaking of Assistant State At­torney Moira Lasch. "The jury's speed means the jurors decided the case not on reasonable doubt but on innocence. They found him to be innocent. .. 
Jeffrey Weiner of Miami, president of the National Asso­ciation of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said that throughout the trial he was confident Smith would be acquitted. 
"I was absolutely positive when the jury announced it had reached a verdict within 90 minutes. That was a complete rejection of the state's decision to charge and try Will Smith." 
"The speed with which this jury verdict was reached should send a clear message to other prosecutors, that they should consider all options before de­ciding to destroy a person's life;· he said. "The prosecution did not have a case... 
New York lawyer Barry Slot­nick, whose clients have in­cluded subway gunman Bern­hard Goetz, called Lasch's per­formance "abysmal." 

"I watched the whole thing on television, and her problem started in jury selection and ended in her summation," Slot­nick said. "Her cross-examina­tion (of Smith) was perhaps the worst I've ever seen. He domi­nated her cross-examination because of her questions. He reinforced his case." 
New York lawyer Ira London also pointed to Lasch's cross­examination of Smith, calling it "professionally disappointing, unfocused and inexperienced." 
London said Lasch appeared to be reading many of her ques­tions from a card and not lis­tening to the answers before she asked her next question. 
Free -ONE MONTH RENT Til February 1st No Security Deposit Free Garage or Carport (while availability last) Free Remington Court MOVING VAN! free MINI & VERTICAL Blinds Included Free Washer $ Dryers Free Microwaves Free Alarm Systems 
ON MAIN ST. 

BETWEEN McKINLEY & EDISON 
Remington Court 
255-7777 
2 Bedroom also available 
THE GULF WAR-ONE YEAR LATER 
asarles of events to remember and analyze tha Persian Gun confUct 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18,1891 
12:00 NOON -prayer and reflection at the War Memorial 
7:00 pm -Forum and Discussion In the Ubrary Audnorlum 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1991 
5:15 pm -Mass lor the Dead at Sacred Heart Church 
Educational VIdeos will be shown throughout both days at the center for Social Concerns 
An educated Christmas 
Professor Paul Shore socializes at a Christmas party for Education majors. The Saint Mary's event, which was for Notre Dame Educa­tion majors as well, offered students a chance to mix with their pro­
fessors before winter break. 

Guatemalan Imports Returns with new sllipnatt (great Chrisbllas buys) 
Vests
* 

Shirts Hooded Bajas Fanny Packs Beaded Jewelry and avariety of hats, bens, purses, barettes aheadbands. Traditional Indian Clothing I much, much, more! 
Lafortune Dec. 9·14 from 1Dam -5pm In the Sorln Room 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, December 13, 1991 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ••••••••••••••••.•••••.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ••••••.•....••..••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller•••••••••••••••••••••Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged . 
. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
University shouldn't limit students' laundry options 
15N71T77Me
"!VU KNOW 7Hef'Vl3 RNAU-Y 
70 CIJNTACT
WHAT'S HAPPENINJ 60N& SOFT.' IT'S 
MY !J.IIF& ABOUT
Hlil<&, IXJN'T Ya.J? ai.AYW fVST­
7H& f?ANSQYI ~ 

P.IAT£:R6AT& tvHA1? 
_.......,,"" \
61JI~T5YN[}f?f)Mb.' :

\ I
j 
.I 
I 
.. 
i .. ) 
I'
,, 
1: 
I 
Dear Editor: 
This letter expresses a terribly pressing concern of hundreds of male residents on this campus, namely the removal of Washington Hall's laundry fa­cilities. We understand that the conversion merely continues a previous plan to grant space to the Department of Communication and Theater. That is understood and not contested. However, the per­ception undeniably exists that the University seeks to narrow student options by reopening St. Michael's and concurrently closing Washington facilities. 
In doing so, many students are placed in a bind; those who declined to use St. Michael's with the original intention of continuing to use Washington are trapped. 
We understand that Washington was always in­tended to be temporary. But it is a faulty assumption that stu­dents will flock back to St. Michael's when numerous North Quad residents, freshman 
I. 
, 
and sophomores, have known nothing other than the convenience of Washington. We also remind students of the situation presented to them. 
The University contends that options are not being taken away when St. Michael's re­opens. But the fact that 

;~'?J;tfl called this period in his life as a tf ..time for chastening, conver­G"tJ.;J.Jf.fi:l sion and peace."The Notre Dame community, administration, faculty, stu­dents, and staff can use this painful time beneficially and constructively by critically ad­dressing the disfunctionality of the Notre Dame family. Let us call upon the administration in 
women's dorms have laundry facilities already places men at an unfair disadvantage. The options of male residents of North Quad include St. Michael's, privately-run laundry businesses, and marching across campus to Badin, Flanner and Grace Halls, the 

Administration should address harassment 
Dear Editor: 

Father Burtchaell has finally publicly responded to allega­tions of sexual misconduct and Rockne Memorial, and LaFortune. 
In keeping all of this informa­tion in mind, we recommend the following steps for concerned students. First, conduct a hall survey as to the number of dorm residents who will use St. Michael's or other 
particular to break silence about the environment of ha­rassment here at Notre Dame and exercise strong leadership in ending the more egregious opportunities for harassment and violence which go on in the family every day. 
Let the administration make it clear that it will not tolerate and therefore implicitly permit harassment. Various university task forces have already made recommendations to the admin­istration about the harassing environment. We need more 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
private businesses. Then, if a considerable number will not use eithe·r. start a petition asking for alternative laundry facilities, perhaps in your dorm. Attainment of such facilities can only be assured through demonstrated evidence. Lastly, make your request a dorm­sponsored one with the backing of your hall council. It is our hope that constructive steps will 
be  taken to address  our  
concerns.  
Bong Miquiabas  

District Three Senator Joe Flanagan Cavanaugh Hall President Jason Coyle Keenan Hall President Rob Pritchard St. Edward Hall President Matt Cutler and Bryan Krayer Sorin Hall Co-Presidents Greg Butrus and John Donahoe Stanford Hall Co-Presidents Warrick Muldoon Zahm Hall President Dec. 11, 1991 
responsible democracy and we need to examine our formal procedures for handling ha­rassment. 
Let the administration take a positive step immediately and announce the search for a Ombudsperson of associate provost rank to coordinate is­sues of sexual and discrimina­tory harassment on campus. 
Kathleen Biddick Associate Professor of History Dec. 11, 1991 

'In the depths of winter I finally realized that within me there lay an invincible summer.' 
Albert Camus 

Study, go home, unwrap and submit: QUOTES. P. 0. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 

2 2 a a a a a &. 
Viewpoint
Friday, December 13, 1991 page 9 
LETTERS 

Response by BCAF was disappointing Reports of acquaintance rape 
Dear Editor: you, love your enemies, and exchange of accusations and The recent letter to the editor pray for those who persecute hatred in articles and skits? 
should be put in Security Beat 
by the officers of the BCAF is you"(Matt 5:44). What is the benefit of a skit that Dear Editor: rape whether it is committed by disappointing in its tone of ha­Again, when the BCAF officers attacks and wounds someone? 
The following statement was a stranger or an acquaintance.
tred and contempt. I am sym­state, "We can handle it, it Did it foster love and respect in 
approved by the Graduate We call on the Securitypathetic to the hurt that the seems as though he [Paul either Paul Peralez or the 
Student Council on December Department to change its policy officers express as a result of Peralez] should be willing and community? Did it make the 11, 1991: in this matter and acknowledgethe abuse they have undergone, able to handle ridicule when he audience better people for At an open forum held on the the seriousness of rape no mat­but I think their response is is the recipient," I am disap­having viewed it and laughed at subject of rape on December 4 ter who commits it.
negative and harmful. It is pointed by this un-Christian re­it? Did it make the actors more the Director of Security, Rex Reports should be noted in the contrary to the Christian values sponse. Jesus teaches, "To the human for having written it? 
Rakow, stated that the Security Security Beat column, as withtaught at this University. person who strikes you on one Did it make Paul Peralez a Department does not issue a any other crime. We recognize
When the article states "We cheek, offer the other one as more loving, understanding 
press release when an acquain­that it would be inappropriatecouldn't care less about any well, and from the person who person for having endured the tance rape is reported because to circulate a description of theloneliness or isolation that Mr. takes your cloak, do not with­attack? I think not. 
"it is not something that is go­alleged perpetrator or the namePeralez may cave incurred as a hold even your tunic"(Luke When the BCAF officers assert ing to threaten the safety level of the dorm, but nonethelessresult of his ill-founded writ­6:29). It seems to me that ha­that "We did not· adopt the of the campus community." the campus community shouldings", I ask: what happened to tred will only be overcome by stereotypical, aggressive, vio­He also distinguished between be informed. 
neighborly love? Listen to the love, not by retaliatory hatred. lent means in dealing with the what he called "bona fide" rapewords of Jesus Christ, "I say to What is to be gained by this inflammatory and libelous and date rape. As Ann Volk, a Kurt Mills 
~----------------------.statements made by Paul," I 
counselor from Sexual Offense GSU President 
disagree. A skit that publicly 
Services, pointed out, rape is Dec. 11, 1991defames and shames a fellow human being doesn't seem to me behavior "which befits our regal ancestry." Neither does the BCAF officers' refusal to apologize and their expression of disconcern for the suffering of another. 
Our royal ancestor, Christ the King, would never have acted in such a way. I believe that if more people would imitate Christ, doing all things in love, we would become a more hu­man race, and overcome the hatred in other people . 
.~·: f Tanja Pieters . Pasquerilla West L-....,.~--......;..~:L---J.....;M.-....J~--......a:l~~:o;..~ Dec. 12, 1991 
Homosexuals not necessarily unhappy 
Dear Editor: change; and (c) the fact that 6). New York and London: 
It seems to me that until the most gays and lesbians seem to Garland Publications, Inc., paltry studies so far done on lead relatively "rich and grati­1991; the second is by the well­the subject are supplemented fying homosexual lives," thank known historian, Professor and replaced by more thorough you! Martin Duberman of the City research, it is a bit futile to ar­If A. A. Howsepian's (Observer College of New York: Cures, A gue about whether one can letter, 12/3/91) authorities seem Gay Man's Odyssey (NY: Dut­change the bent of unhappy impressive, one might well read ton, 1991). homosexuals dissatisfied with two more recent publications Both hooks opened my eyes, their condition. that will throw some light on once again, to the unbelievable Dear Editor: phatically praise SUFR's dis­
In the meantime, perhaps we the question at hand. damage ignorant counselors, It is interesting to me that the criminatory harassment policy. can note (a) the obvious futility The first is a collection of ex­psychologists, and psychiatrists, officers of the Black Cultural This is just something to think of requesting heterosexuals to periential tales: Listen to the can cause to their patients. Arts Festival feel comfortable about in terms of being true to change their bent, (b) the unde­Stories. Gay and Lesbian William G. Storey criticizing Paul Peralez for not your convictions. sirability of presupposing that Catholics Talk About Their Professor of Theology being able to handle opinion­Peter M. Castelli homosexual persons in any Lives and the Church (Garland Emeritus ated ridicule and criticism, and Stanford Hall 
large number desire any such Gay and Lesbian Studies, vol. Dec.4, 1991 then in the same article em-Dec. 11, 1991 
Right to Life club announces results of survey on abortion 
Dear Editor: claimed to be pro-choice even if said conception, 14 percent in can Enterprise Institute, 42 rape, incest, or when the 
I am writing this letter to re­they were opposed to abortion the first trimester, 8 percent in percent of people are pro-life, mother is at risk. port and explain the results of in all cases. The inverse was the second, 5 percent in the 33 percent pro-choice and 23 In conclusion we must remem­the abortion survey conducted true as well; many people who third and 1 percent said life be­percent neutral. In a survey by ber that every law is a legisla­by the Right to Life club. We said they were pro-life accepted gins at birth. When asked the the Boston Globe and WBZ TV it tion of morality or immorality wanted to get an idea of stu­abortion under a variety of cir­related question "Up to what was found that most people in and that the presence or ab­dents' feelings on abortion. cumstances. point should abortion be le­the U.S. favor a ban on the sence of a law makes a state­After being assigned a section When asked if the following gal?", 50 percent said never, 41 majority of abortions. ment about our society. On an of the student directory, the statement described them, "I percent to the first trimester, 10 According to the Wirthlin issue as serious as this one, it surveyor called at least 15 en­am personally morally opposed percent to the second, 3 percent Group Survey: Americans' po­was interesting, of not tries in their section. (Graduate to abortion yet would support to the third, and 6 percent up sition on abortion, 11 percent disconcerting to note how few students were not included.) another's right to choose to until birth. wanted to always prohibit, 11 had any strong convictions 
After reaching someone the have an abortion," 56 percent When asked "What do you percent wanted it always legal, either way. surveyor stated that : "We are agrees with the statement. view Notre Dame's student body 4 percent to six months, 29 Daniel Hoffman taking a random survey on the When asked when abortion as being?", 66 percent re­percent legal to three months, Dillon Hall issue of abortion. The results was acceptable, 74 percent said sponded predominantly pro-life, and 28 percent only in cases of Dec.10,1991 will be published. You will re­it was in cases of rape or incest, 1 percent responded pre­main anonymous. There are six 90 percent if the life of the dominantly pro-choice, and 23 questions and the survey will mother were at risk, only 19 percent said predominantly take less than two minutes." percent said physical deformity neutral meaning that there was 221 undergraduates was an acceptable reason, and no clear leaning. When asked participated in the poll. only 18 percent said abortion the same question about the 
In response to the first ques­for reasons of emotional or administration, 87 percent re­tion "Are you pro-life or pro­economic difficulty was ac­sponded pro-life, 1 percent said choice?" 58 percent said they ceptable. In a survey by Family pro-choice, and 12 percent were pro-life and 42 percent Planning Perspectives, 19 times viewed the administration being said they were pro-choice. as many women had abortions neutral. From individuals' responses to for reasons of emotional or It is interesting to note that the questions, it seemed clear economical convenience than Notre Dame's students' views that people were uncomfortable for all other reasons combined. are very similar to the national with being labeled pro-life or When asked "When do you be­averages instead of having a pro-choice. Many people lieve life begins?", 63 percent bias. According to the Ameri-



l 
t 
I'{ 
I 
I 
Center for the Homeless gives gift. of friendship 


By LISA EATON Managing Editor 

hile most students and faculty members are preparing to leave for the 
holidays, for the guests at South Bend's Center for the Homeless the Center is their home and that is where most of them are going to spend the holiday season. 
Debbie Bloom, a guest at the 
DECEMBER 13-16 

Center, will be visiting her fam­ily in Elkhart during Christmas. "It will be good to spend time with my family because· I
~weekend c31endar 

haven't seen them in two months. That's what matters at the holidays-being with family. Holidays bring 
MUSIC  
Velcro Pygmies,  Club Shenanigans, 10:00 p.m.  
The Methatones,  Sneakers, 10:00 p.m.  
Way Past Tense,  Club 23, 10:00 p.m.  
EVENTS  


people closer said Lou
friday 

together," said Nanni,
'I'm going to be
Bloom. Executive coming around during Director of Most of the the Center. 
guests are not Christmas. The spirit as fortunate as "Right now 
MUSIC 
Velcro Pygmies, Club Shenanigans, 1 0 p.m. 

here is more
Bloom though we have 
· Way Past Tense, Club 23, 1 0 p.m. 

and will be cheeerfu I than it about 40 
spending the turkeys in the
The Methatones, Sneakers, 1 0 p.m. 

holiday season should be. The spirit freezer for without their Christmas
EVENTS 

around here is great, 
families. dinner. We 
NO Glee Club Christmas Concert, Stepan Center, 8 p.m.. 

Although most pretty happy, pretty are going to 
of the guests be getting a 
agreed that friendly... I feel as if Christmas the Christmas tree from a
there is something I 
season is not retail store. the same want to give back for And we
saturday 

without family, should be 
they also all they've done for able to have agreed that one or two
me'
there is a gifts for the 
like it here." 
Redd will continue to volun­teer in the kitchen and in other ways. "I feel a·s if there is something I want to give back for all that they've [the staff at the Center] done for me," said Redd. He says that he will al­ways be able to return to the Center and be welcome there. 
Although the Center is always in need of volunteers and sup­plies, the holiday season brings with it an abundance of volun­teers and donations from indi­viduals and other organizations throughout the South Bend community. 
"We never have a problem with donations or volunteers around Thanksgiving and 
Christmas," 
"The Nutcracker," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 2 & 7 p.m. Story Hour for Children, Snite Museam of Art, 10:30 a.m. 
sunday 
EVENTS "The Nutcracker," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 2p.m. Lessons and Carols, Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's, 8p.m. 
films 
FRIDAY "A Christmas Story," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m 
SATURDAY "A Christmas Story," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSTIY PARK EAST "The Addams Family," 8:45 & 10 p.m. "Little Man Tate," 7:10 &9:10p.m. 

closeness and hospitality at the Center that helps to make the holiday season more positive. There is a family-like atmosphere at the Center that brings the guests together. 
"Once a person comes here, the other people go out of their way to make them welcome, " said Bloom. "There is a close­ness around here." 
"We have each other and a place to stay. We sit around and talk a lot," said Ernest Langston, a Center guest. 
"You live here for a while and you become like family," said Victor Newell, a Center guest, "but I'd probably like to go home. Try to have a good atti­tude. We'll hang in there, we'll be alright." 
Tracy Shenefield said he would like to see his brother. But, because he won't be able to do that, Shenefeild is just trying to make the most of the season. "It's nice to be around family at Christmas. It doesn't seem like Christmas," he said, "I'd like to go to church in Elkhart where I used to go. It was always like home. I have a lot of good friends over there." Shenefield, however, did enjoy decorating the lobby of the Center in Christmas garb. 
Although Ronald Redd moved out of the Center last Tuesday, he still plans to come back to the Center as a volunteer and to spend Christmas there. "I'm going to be coming around during Christmas. The spirit tiere is more cheerful than it should be. The spirit around here is great, pretty happy, pretty friendly" said Redd, "I do guests, adults 
and children, to be given from the Center," said Nanni. 
The Center will have its share of festivities within the weeks leading up to Christmas. Last Wednesday, grade school stu­dents from Jefferson School threw a party for the children who are guests at the Center. There is also a community din­ner planned for Christmas Day. 
Like everyone else, the guests at the Center have Christmas wishes that they hope Santa will be able to bring down the chimney. 
"I wish for peace in the world. Too much fighting goin' on between countries-even here in the U.S." said Bloom. 
"I wish that there are other places in other towns where people can go and lay their heads and get a bite to eat," said Langston. 
"I wish that everyone here could have a nice Christmas. It is better to give than receive. As long as I'm happy, that's all I want," said Red d. 
No one wants to be homeless at Christmas or at any other time of the year, but the guests and staff are doing what they can to make the most of this holiday season. They are truly appreciative for all the Center does for them and all they are able to give to each other. 
In the end the greatest gift anyone can give or receive at Christmas is the gift of hospi­tality and friendship. In that case, the staff and the guests of the Center for the Homeless are richest people around. 



During the Christmas season, South Bend's 1 child, one of the guests of the center. 
Notre Da 
By Shonda Wilson  true  
Assistant Accent Editor  I o v e  
rificiJ  
C  hristmas wouldn't be right without beautifully gleaming new fallen snow, a colorful Christmas  of th seve1 to se1 As  
tree whose sparkling  und•  


star touches the top of the ceiling Stud• or the wonderful gifts in their cloth colorful packages surrounding box • the tree with your name on most drop of them. item! 
But before you rip open those they gifts think of those who are less good fortunate than you, think of the Th1 

'( 
',f 
' 
i, 

...a ........aasss......

.........a ......~a __£_______&_~--------....-----------.........--~-~----, 


-~~~~~~~~~~~~~R-)11:~~
f 
The Center for lhe tlomeless 
ij f
lmmediated Needs 
~~:~~:~ear and T shiM f 
__. J f
WomenS underwear 

Bars of soap 1'. Pampers (all sizes) f" 
l: Deooranl (spray) ~t A t1and Lotion 
f

lr
Toothbrushes 

-~ &hampoo ¥
! 
Antacid "1'.
i f
Non-aspirin 

·~ Needs If A Bedspreads (for lwin beds) 

l 
Clolhes iron j Gifts for guesl birthday J Qubber gloves l Candy (lreat.s for lhe children) 
..l framed piclures (lar8e) &issors 
E>us tokens
ristmas 


Desired Items 
Infanl Car seals Chairs (folding and office) rr 
'\
in action 
f1i8h chairs for children 6port.s equipmenl ¥
1 f aiding card lables f.~t ..j. Curling irons ]; Winler-caps. scarves. 8loves V

j f
ChildrenS books

i I
Kitchen .Supplies 
~ Lar8e amounts of meal and poullry A Paper products j 10 cans of fruil ~ Ve8elables
i 
Canned juice (all varieties)Breakfasl cereal 


l Major Contributions ~ 
-1 Wall lo wall carpeting 1....
J ~ 
j 
6lation wagon filing cabinet.s 
6upply Cabinets W' 
6moke ealer syslem for lobby 1'.l Eleclric lypewrilers rJ.: Personal 90mptilers @ prinlers 

Pholocopy machine 




fax Machine 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 
lend's Center for the Homeless provides care for men, women, and children alike. Bottom: Director Lou Nanni holds a L-~~~~~-..~~~~~~~~~ 
arne students make Christmas brighter 
true spirit of Christmas, showing clothes drive because recently ually in light of the Christmas Chris Paulson. popular visit from Santa Claus 
love for one another by sac­there was a fire at the local spirit of giving. Knott Hall is The Native American Student who was equiped with big belly, 
rificing to give to another. In light goodwill which burned two participating with the Madisson Association have also reached out red suit and loads of presents for 
of the true spirit of Christmas, months of inventory for the Center, a center for kids emo­to nurture a link with the everyone. 
several ND students are working establishment. "We chose this as tionally and behaviorally handi­community. Having invited sev­
to serve others. a service project because we capped. Aiding 24 financially eral children from the local Apparently, Santa isn't the only 
thought we could build it (the insecure children ages three to Potowatomi area, the Native one with the spirit of Christmas. 
As a whole the student body inventory) back up," says Kelly five, Knott Hall is gathering American Student Association ND students are personifying that 
under the leadership of the Fitzpatrick, service commissioner money to buy gifts for the chil­held a party for children ranging spirit in their service efforts. 
Student Union Board is having a at the Student Union Board. dren, according to Vaneeta in age from 3 to 15 years of age Working to develop a link 
clothing drive. In each dorm is a Today is the last day to Monteiro, Social Concerns along with their parents. between Notre Dame and the 
box strategically placed for the participate in the clothes drive so Commissioner. South Bend community as well as 
drop off of clothes or other such dig through those closets, I'm Keenan Hall is also aiding the Besides cookies and cake, the helping those who are less 
items not needed by students that sure you'll find something. community. Their talented men favorite meal of most kids that fortunate than they, students 
they are willing to give to will be carolling for various age, the children were enter­have given of themselves to make 
goodWill. Several dorms are also spon­elderly homes in the area, says tained with pin-the-nose-on-ru­this Christmas season a happier 
There is definitely a need for a soring service projects individ-Social Concerns Commissioner dolf and of course the ever-one for others. 
Friday, December 13, 1991

page 12 The Observer 
The church as the kingdom where nobody dies 
Sometimes I wonder what a survive the lost childhood? anything in the whole of Celt nice place like Notre Dame is Come hell or high water, the myth or legend where the loveliness of the world is shown
doing in the brave new world. It F fh R b rf G lffi Church is deathless. The 
must exist to serve the dark a er 0 8 r n Church owes its longevity to the through a mist of tears, and the night as a lighthouse, powered sinners who give the Church a life of man is no more than a to shine brighter than a million letters to 0 lonely God fresh lease on life in every flower," that can be compared candles that may not last the generation. to the last act of Christ's night. Oscar Wilde, for example, be-passion? 
What does it mean when you Disney World. The Notre Dame most of the news has been bad, came a Catholic on his As an outpost of God's lonely say that Notre Dame is Catholic, that we dream of should be a and the brave new world is deathbed. While in prison for kingdom, Notre Dame encour­and how important is it to be place where young Catholics starting to look mapless, like acts of indecency, it turned out ages sinners to come home for Catholic in the brave new can come to recover the Greeneland. The sex scandals he became an artist finding love their healing. The promise is, world? innocence of the lost childhood, have trickled down to the among the ruins. "How else but "Though your sins be as scarlet, 
Maybe Notre Dame is a place as well as to grow sensitive in groves of academe. On the cur-through a broken heart/May they shall be as white as snow." where students come to find their discernment of "the tears rent list of the anti-heroes are Lord Christ enter in?" The question is: are there balms their lost childhood, or to leave of things, and mortality that the namest, Magic Johnson, "When I think about Religion in Gilead for the politically childhood behind them. . touches the heart." Clarence Thomas and William at all," he begins, "I feel as if I indiscreet? 
Edna St. Vincent Millay The human condition says Kennedy Smith, coming into our would like to found an order for wrote: "Childhood is not from Greene, disposes us to be lives as representatives of those who cannot believe: the In the brave new world, the birth to a certain age and at a tempted into disloyalty and be-televangelism, the AIDS crisis, Confraternity of the Fatherless Church of Rome, chauvinistic certain age!fhe child is grown, trayal; these are the pitfalls that sexual harassment, and date one might call it, where on an and paternal, offends many. It's and puts away childish come in the wake of the lost rape. altar, on which no taper the lads in charge of the cult things./Childhood is the king-childhood. In a similar way, we can say burned, a priest, in whose heart that need chastening. dom where nobody Greeneland-Greene's of the sex scandals, we have peace had no dwelling, might Somehow," I once read, "a dies./Nobody that matters, that imaginative world-tends to be enough of them on campus to celebrate with unblessed bread bachelor never quite gets over is." You can't belong to the a wild jungle country, without keep us saddened; at least we and a chalice empty of wine." the idea that he is a thing of Church unless you're willing to maps. Students may have to live hear rumors of alleged rapes, Next, he reflects on the in­beauty and a boy forever." be born again, and become as a a long time before arriving harassment, and unprotected sight that says Christ's great That's the picture that the child. What else is the Church there; discovering from sex, which cast their shadows achievement was that he made brave new Church seems to but childhood's nursery? experience "the sense of doom on our lives. himself as much loved after his have of the Peter Pans who 
You should realize that your that lies over success, and the Eventually our fear of allega-death as he had been during his have attached themselves as childhood is lost and gone for-feeling that the pendulum is tions could poison the well. We lifetime. Finally, he describes glory-hounds ever, wrote Graham Greene, about to swing." should be defending our mi-the letting go. "I bore up once you start to perceive as a Greene says, one can see the nor1ties as though they were against everything... but till I Now is the winter of our Christian that "Goodness has doomed in every direction, "the members of an endangered had absolutely nothing left in sesquicentennial discontent. only once found a perfect in-champion runner who will one species. Priests shouldn't be the world but Cyril (his son). Notre Dame waits for the carnation in a human body and day sag over the tape; the head stampeded by the fear-But I had still one beautiful growth that will come when never will again, but evil can of the school who will atone mongering that could convince thing left, my own eldest son. Spring stirs the freshness deep I always find a home there." For during forty dreary them to do the right thing for Suddenly he was taken away down in ·things. Our campus is children, life looks simple. undistinguished years the the wrong reason. from me by the law. It was a important as a moral miracle. People are either good or bad. scholar..." Religion might Notre Dame has become one blow so appalling that I did not When miracles turn secular, Once you arrive at the explain it in other terms, but of the places where the Church know what to do, so I flung they lose the grace that keeps knowledge of good and evil, the pattern is there-"perfect is on trial; as a matter of fact, myself on my knees, and bowed them alive like a sacrament. says Greene, you start noticing evil walking the world where Notre Dame is a place that my head, and wept." That Schools like Notre Dame are that "Human nature is not black perfect good can never walk scandalizes the Church by moment seemed to save me. I becoming rare. If Notre Dame is and white, but black and gray." again, and only the pendulum putting itself on trial, every time saw then that the only thing for still Catholic on its bicentennial, 
Notre Dame has more of a ensures that after all in the end one Domer lynches another in me was to accept everything." it could mean that God really 
future as the savou s justice is done." the media. If the Church should Oscar Wilde, as a convert love did make Our Lady's school 
Graceland-than it does as Lately, you may have noticed, forfeit its innocence, could it wanted to know if there is Number One. 
************••••••**••*•******************************************************
* ~ 
* *
* *
* *
* *
I Spring Break Seminars Centerfor Social Concerns I 
* *
I Center for Social Concerns Mexico Service Project I 
* *
* Three weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico * 
* May 11 to June 1, 1992 * : APPALACHIA SEMINAR (leaving time for summer work) :* Service-Learning at one of * : six sites in Appalachia Service-learning cosponsored :
* One-credit Theology *
* by Maryknoll * * * 
:* CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR One credit Theology *.* 
* Explore the cultural richness of Chicago * : Examine issues of diversity and related concerns Spanish not required :* One-credit Theology or Sociology * 
:* Information Meeting: :* ~ WASHINGTON SEMINAR Jan. 21, 1992 7:00PM ~ * Examine current issues through direct (Mark you calendars !) * : contact with leaders in government, : : agencies, and the Church :* One credit Theology * 
* *
* *
* * 
* *
*: March 8 -14, 1992 Plan Ahead ! #* * * 
: Applications Available in January # 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* :
:~****************************************************************************: 
...... --­
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to_3:30 P-~· at_the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Sa1nt Marys office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2-$2,400 Value! HO HO HO JOE ROBERTS, HE 
........................

BR home with Grad Male. Avail Jan 3RT tix Indy to Miami Florida! DaVe, SaNdY, PaUl, FrAnK, WHO HAS A BIRTHDAY EVERY NOTICES 1, 1992. FFI: Jeff 288-3878. Lv 7am 12/25, Retrn 4pm 1/5 MeReDiTh, PeTe, laUrEn, AnN DAY... have a holly, jolly one in the 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ALTERATIONS AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 259-8684.  SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791. STUDENT FOR PART TIME OFFICE WORK, LOCAL OFFICE OF NAT'L COMPANY. SHOULD  Price: $1,750. ph (812) 448-3188 I PERSONAL Happy birthday Joe Roberts.  mARiE, JuliE, Alicia, StEvE, cOlleEn, AnDy, DaNnlka: MERRY CHRISTMAS TO THE BEST DEPARTMENT@ the BIG 0. Thank you for all of your hard work and kind words (not) and .tor putting up with all of mine. Fire up for the  land of tall and dark men named Mario. Know that you are missed dearly in the Hoosier state, especially by me ...... Monicababe To Jessica, Chuck, Roger, Julie, Matt, Mike, Colleen, Amy, Meg,  MERRY CHRISTMAS TO: Bird, Megan, Kristen, Tate, Elisa, Lara, Bethany, Mark B., Chris B,  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 CUSTOMIZED WORD PROCESSING Reports/resumes/letters. 271-1618. GOIN' BACK TO CALl @ X-MAS? **I have a A. T. ticket to L.A. from S. B.... IT COULD BE YOURS**CHEAP**$355.00** (LEAVES FRI A.M.) CALL NOW! ••••••••••••*KATE X2668 Fast, Professional Typing 277-7406 RELIABLE CHILD CARE SOUGHT Couple seeks babysitter for 6 mo. old infant, 9 Hrs/wk, min. Experience with infants preferred, transportation required. Phone: 287-0260 CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS to ll, NYC, and NJ STILL HAS ROOM! $110. VCR. Call Anthony Cornetta at1751! LOST/FOUND Lost: a black Christian Dior wallet on Wednesday afternoon between O'Shag and Grace. Contains all IDs and things of sentimental value. If found, please call *4085. NO QUESTIONS ASKED **********HELP'"********* I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE JACKET AFTER THE FARLEY­FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN LAKEVILLE,IN. CHRIS X4327. FOUND: A Pair of wire rimmed eyeglasses was found Sunday night (12-1) on a walkway across from the JACC. If they're yours and ya want 'em -call X3885!! LOST: Between PE and PW on Saturday a finished roll of 24 exposures Kodak film in a black round container-if found please call x4434 and ask for Aimee or drop it off at 719 PE. Campus Ministry -Badin Hall LARGE VINE WREATH WITH MISSING CHRISTMAS TREE IN CENTER. PLEASE RETURN! FOUND: GIRL'S HIGH SCHOOL RING (WESTPHALIA H.S.) ON ANGELA BLVD. CALL 233-9099 AFTER 5 PM. Found chain necklace. OLOtside Loftus. Call Dan X1606 If anyone picked up the wrong Notre Dame blue back pack from South Dining Hall on Wed. at lunchtime PLEASE  HAVE HIGH GPA, COMPUTER EXPERIENCE, & OUTGOING PERSONALITY. CALL 273-1866. FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. Furnished. $200. /Mon. $150. Dept. Call 277-8866 Tues/Sat. 10am/5pm. Near N.D. cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285 dep. ref. 288-7207 NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE FOR NEXT FALL. Two 4-BR furnished homes with security systems and washer/dryer. 259-7801 ot 255-5852 for more details. Want to get off campus? Two bedroom, fully furnished, close to campus. Available as of Jan 1. Call x3791. Female Graduate Student: FREE room and board in exchange for minimal "nanny" (baby-sitting) services. Transportation necessary. Please call239-7308. Portage Ave. House: '92-'93 yr. 6 bedrms. , 2 baths, Lrg. living rm. & yard. Washer & dryer. Furnished. Extra safe area. 234-3831/288-5653 RENTAL-TURTLE CREEK 2BR-Furnished, Avail1/1 Call collect 708-446-9286 480 mo.+ ht. HOUSEMATE NEEDED: Seeking quiet nonsmoker to share 3-BR home. Ten minutes S. of ND in nice neighborhood. $250 + 1/3 utilities. Call 232-3131. 2 AM'S FOR RENT 200 PER MONTH USE OF ALL UTILITIES ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 4-6 Bed Am. Furn. House, New Carpet + Vinyl Firs., Wash/Dry, Alarm syst., Across From Bus Stop. Best houses will be gone after X­Mas. 233-9947. LUXURIOUS CONDO IN MISHAWAKA, 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF RUNAWAY BAY. 2 BEDROOM, ATTACHED GARAGE WITH OPENER, WASHER & DRYER, STOVE, FRIDGE, DISHWASHER, SOME FURNITURE. CONDO ASSN CLEANS DRIVEWAY AND CARES FOR LAWN. AVAILABLE JAN. 1992. $450. PER MONTH FOR THIS VERY SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. 256-2885 JAMIE O'BRIEN FOR SALE  Monica Eigelberger is a ho. Happy birthday, Cannonball. Take care, comb your hair-get a brush ...... . I think I'm going to sit on the toilet ....................... . INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15 Due to reduced seating, tickets will be sold for the first time ever @ info desk in LaFortune for $1. Nor-The super sophomores run this team .............. .that's right, bring your noise! Hey Team, Merry Christmas!! (Yeah, you too Schmickers) We still have a half to play. Fire and Water We didn't start the fire, Didn't mean to start the flood, Had a couple of squirts, and the alcohol checked in our blood. So here's to the team, in whatever we do, including the legendary log, in stall number two. We've been gassed and daysed, had to open a few cans, but fire and water, never fail in their plans. Jenn, Smile! That beautiful moment-10:00 AM (in the morning) Fri. Dec. 20th will be here soon. Top 10 quotes from Fall '91: 1 0-Go Ansel Adams! 9-Through him, with him ... 8-Glooory ... 7-1 AM, who is he? 6-You mocked me once, never do it again! 5-This is going to be horrid! 4-You idiot! 3-This is not my locker! 2-It's not your ears, it's your head! 1-What?! CLEARLY, I could go on (Mr. Sunshine, yellow slacks etc.), but I just want to wish you a Merry Christmas. Have a great break! Thurber rules! Love, Ms. Crabby Pants MARIT, LIAM, SUZANNE AND MARIE-Merry Christmas to you all. Love, Pat and Chris Do You Need A Ride To RALEIGH NC Area X4334  New Year, especially the lucky Thursday ni!)ht staff... ..love, mony hey nil. merry christmas. NEED EXTRA CASH? HAVE AN IDLE, SECURE GARAGE AVAILABLE DURING XMAS BREAK? CALL 283-4519 TODAY! BEAVERS ONE AND ALL: MERRY CHRISTMAS! LUV, EM Merry Christmas from the disillusioned idealist. .. LAURA PFOUTS-Here it is -your personal that you've been waiting 2 1/2 years for! Don't worry, I won't mention your recent adventures! (I never was very subtle). Have a great time celebrating your b-day on Jan. 2. Good luck on MCATS! I'll miss you! ANN I need a ride to S. Chicago near Midway on Dec. 20. If you can help please call Sean H. @ 289-6439 Class of '92, Beat the Rush!!! FIND A SPOUSE NOW!!! To my Iii' drumstick, Happy 21st! Wish I could be there on your birthday I'll send your girft in the mail, but you'll have to wait until after break to get your PRESENTS!!! Luv, Your Punkin' P.S. There will be more Carla, Monish, Sara, KT, Tuts, Jills, STACY JONES, Have nice breaks and don't do anything I wouldn't do.... especially those of you who will be in New Orleans! MERRY CHRISTMAS!!!! liza O.K-. Last time ... I am not the lizard King, I am Nicodemus, and the Amphibian Queen shall succumb to my power! Raft: London's calling. We have little time left to bond and consume the Coronas I owe you. Let's plan something SOON ... mo I'm the king of all lizards They call me T. Rex Come up to my loft And we'll have good ..... Don't too much eggnog on the candy cane over break! THE METHA-TONES Fri & Sat at SNEAKERS University lanes What else are ya gonna do ... STUDY?  Loan, and Robert I wish rest and happiness over the holidays. God Bless. -J.T. Rock *NIF*MARGE*LUSH*KATEY*KARE N* JOYFUL *MO*MER:COLL: hohohohohohohohohohohohofrom your favorite sender of personals. may all your christmas wishes come true (well, joy, that might be a lot to ask.... ) P.S. Start the countdown til Cancun: 84 days. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, AMY HARDGROVE!!!-BY THE WAY, DID ANYONE HAPPEN TO SEE A ... A NOSE??? HOPE YOU HAVE A "WACKY!!" B-DAY! LOVE, NELLDOG HAPPY BIRTHDAY BETTACCHI!! HOPE IT'S AWESOME!! LOVE VA To Jaime and the Boyz from Grace, V (and quad), Tracy (and quad), Jen B., Kim &lisa &all Knott DUDES, the Bo-man, the Bethster, Jen (my Observer cohort), AK, Sean, and, of course, the man, DJ Marty Pulido, MERRY CHRISTMAS. Have an awesome break. Good luck on finals. W/0 you all, I would never have survived. Thanx for putting up with me. Here's to an unforgettable next semester with joy and happiness for all. -Rich­2 DESPERATE Texans need X­mas ride to DFW or Houston. Will accept OK City or Baton Rouge. Will pay gas. Lori X4526 Maria X2600. HELP! NEED HELP TO KEEP AWAKE, STAY UP LATE WHILE STUDYING FOR EXAMS, DOING PAPERS? STAY AWAKE! STAY ALERT LIKE NEVER BEFORE. CALL JERRY 233-6581. TOP TEN QUOTES AT THE SYR FROM ROOMS 328/332 BP 10 1 promise I wasn't drunk when I fell down the stairs. 9 1 want to know which one of you two left your pants here. 8 Jerry, you broke my Chia-Pet! 7 One night down, one to go. 6 Col, try on your body condom. 5 Liz, the pepperoni looks the same before and after! 4 All my roommates think you're really hot. 3 Bridge: "...You ditched town!" 2 Well, you have another year under your belt. 1 Smile, Mal, you're on Candid Camera! What kind of shark can survive a Gator attack? AN IRISH SHARK!  Kevin, Joe, Tony, Doug R and all his roommates,Jeff, Rus, Tim, Ed, Troy, Ronnie, Peanut, Stress, Michelle, Wentling, Avegno, the other Jen Martin,Molly, and everyone else on third floor, Julie V, Gail, Tanya, Gal, Terry C, Ronnie and the rest of the PW football team, Brems, Luke, Cam, Pat, Paul, and the rest of 10D, JZ, Anne, the Danas, April, and the rest of 2A, Dave and Greg, Schnack, Dan, Matt, Staph, Anne, and Hick, and the Observer sports staff. I hope you all have a wonderful Christmas and that you all survive finals! Have safe trips home and I hope that Santa is good to all of you! A special message for Jim Sullivan­Jim, I'm sorry we never did our walk. Have a great Christmas. You're a fantastic guy and I hope you have an incredible time at Oxford!!!! I'll miss you! To Jan Foss in Spain-I hope you are having fun and learning lots o' spanish. You probably won't see this until after the Holidays, but Merry Christmas anyway. Rich Szabo-I know you have been naughty so all you'll get for Christmas is some hard sticksand cold stones. Oh well, have a good break and gear up for Virginia!!!! Love Always, Marten Myth: Sexual baraumeat allecta enb-• lewpenoaa. ReaJlt)': so~ e1 w0111en dudeata are barused b)' at leut .... butructar ar pra~..._. dlll'ia& their lour J'ears in coDece.  
CALL EILEEN 2725 if you know MINOLTA X370 35mm Camera, anything about it. THANKS 50mm Lens, 2x Lens, flash, and more. like new. $225, OBO. 233­LOST: Black and gold Citizen watch 2344 after 5.with inscription on back. Lost in Washington Hall some time Friday CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED or Saturday night. If found, please 89 MERCEDES $200, call Paul at x1208. Thanks. 86 vw $50 87 MERCEDES $100, LOST/reward: BLUE BOOKBAG 65 MUSTANG $50. at -COACH'S-early last week Choose from thousands starting contains needed disk @ paper $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording call Chops 234-1 048 -NO Q'S Reveals Details 801-379-2929 CopyrightHelp! It's THREE DAYS until finals #IN11KJC.and my bookbag is gone! It's a navy Jansport ND bag. 16 GENESIS GAMES Inside were three disks and notes x1746for four exams. If you can get it to me call Chris at X2115. .....N_o_Q_uE_s_Tio_N_s_A_sK_E_D'--., I TICKETS I WANTED I ND ALUM SEEKS 2 REASONABLy IL.,.,....---,'""=---,-.-:-;---::-:-;::-;;-:;----' PRICED SUGAR BOWL TIX. (415)Wanted: Drivers to take a 1987 579_1432. Camry auto to Seattle, WA; will pay $100 plus gas; call291-4608. Tkt SB-Boston, male, Dec. 19,$111.  * Merry Christmas, Beavers • * I love you all ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! * -Beth........................ **Season's Greetings from** *BLENHEIM FINANCIAL GROUP* ··celebrating 1DO years of** *****Pax Blenheimata•••••• GOING TO THE SUGAR BOWL? Then don't miss The Observer's special pull-out section this Friday, December 13. Not only will it feature important slats and info about the big game, but it will be the definative guide to what to do and where to go in New Orleans. Don't miss it. SAVE$ SUNSHINE CAB 299-0202 :Lowest rate to airport, South Shore, Niles Amtrack. Make Early Reservation to Guarantee Trip.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY RICH CASPAR!!!!!!!! from your saintly roommate, PETAH. hey nil 000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center WHEN YOU NEED COPIES WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, &WEEKENDS ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth and love. Can provide financial security and education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800­456-2656 . 00 THE COPY SHOP 00 LaFortune Student Center Copies as low as 3¢ in volume! Desparate women seek to sell extra Sugar Bowl Tix!l! call Sandi or Laura, x2732  Sugar Bowl 92 U.S. Shark is back in plaid 2 NDA of 643 PE: Rocks in your stockings? Keep them and me 4 ever! The Dillon Elf P.S. Marrs needs woman! Kari-Good luck next semister abroad! I'll (we'll) really miss you, and god, your voice! Haha. When I look in your eyes, I just can't help but wonder ... but for now take care of yourself since I won't be able to look out for you. Until May ... Greg LOCK YOUR DOORS! Felicia, Katrina, Joanna, Gina, Adriana, and Suzanna were let loose and OUT TO GET YOU! Hey Rene Ferran,  ACNE A NASTY FOUR LEITER WORD If you had started on clear Care Acne Treatment 30 days ago, you would be clEa.r of Arne today For free samples, information on hov. Clear Care's topical medications work,  
$40,000/yr! READ BOOKS and TV  Call287-8656.  TO THE BURLY OF 11C AND  We would like to thank you so  
Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don'tlike" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright NIN11 KEB.  AIR TICKETS: USAir SB to NEWARK Ad TRIP LEAVE 12/19 RET 1/13 SALE OR TRADE 283-1231  *$.50 off with this coupon. SUNSHINE CAB 299-0202  CRAIG AND NOAH: MERRY CHRISTMAS AND GOOD LUCK IN FINALS! FROM THE ROMAN BABES ABROAD-SUSANNE, MARIT, MARIE, LIAM  much for bringing us together this semester. We did not realize how lost we were until you enlightened us. Thanks again for changing our lives from hellish boredom to complete bliss.  Call our Skin Care Information Line (800) 435-3533  

page 14 
NHL SCORING LEADERS 

PLAYER 
Stevens, PIT 
Lemieux, PIT 
Hull, srL. 
Sakic, auE 
Roenick, cHI 
Coffey, PIT 
Robitaille, LA 
Linden, VAN 
Gretzky, L. A 
Housley, WIN 
Messier, NYR 
Burridge, wAs 
Oates, sn 
Mullen, PIT Recchi, PIT Leetch, NYR Nolan, oue Muller, MON Yzerman, DET Larmer, CHI 

·~ 
GP G A PTS PIM 29 24 23 47 93 26 20 25 45 20 29 27 16 43 22 29 16 27 43 6 31 24 16 40 41 29 7 32 39 16 29 16 22 38 36 31 12 26 38 38 24 1 27 38 8 30 10 27 37 24 29 9 28 37 42 30 10 26 36 30 29 4 31 35 8 29 13 21 34 6 29 15 18 33 56 30 6 27 33 8 27 21 11 32 47 33 17 15 32 47 29 16 16 32 26 31 15 17 32 16 
THIS WEEKEND IN NO SPORTS 
Friday, December 13 Hockey vs. Princeton 7:30p.m. @ JACC 
W. Basketball@ Michigan 7-:JO p.m. Swimming @ Bowling Green 4:00p.m. 
Saturdey, December 14 Hockey vs. Princeton 7:30 p.m. @ JACC 
t/aAmerican HeartV Association 


.. ,L><,..," ISHAVES: Agreed to terms with Jerry Willard, catcher, on a one year contract. Waived Jet! Parrett. pitcher. for the purpose of giving hlm his uncondlffonal release. 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES: Agreed to terms with Dwight Evans, outfielder, and Tim Hulett, Infielder, on one-year contrads and Gregg Olson. pitcher, on a two-year contract. Traded Bob Melvin, catcher, to the Kansas City Royals for Storm Davis, pitcher. 
CAUFORNIA ANGELS: Agreed to terms with 
Chuck Finley, pitcher, on a four-year contract. 
Traded Mike Feners and Glenn Carter, pitchers. to 
the Milwaukee Brewers for Chuck Crim, picher. 
CHICAGO CUBS: agreed to term& with Paul 
Assenrracher, pitcher, on a three year contrad. 
CHICAGO WHITE SOX: Agreed to terms with 
Carlton Fisk, catcher, on a one year contract 
CINCINNATI REDS: Traded Randy Myers, pitcher, to the San Diego Padres lor Bip Roberts, infielder, and Craig Pueschner, outfielder. Traded John Wetteland and Bill Risley, pitchers, to the Montreal EKPOS tor Dave Martinez, outfielder, Scott Ruskin, ptcher, and Willie Greene, infielder. 
CLEVELAND INDIANS: Traded Will B1air, 
pitcher, and Ed Tatbensee, catcher, to the 
Houston Astros lor Kenny Lonon, outfielder, and 
Dave Roinde, infielder. Designated Doug Jones, 
pitcher, for assignnnent. 

COLORADO ROCKIES: Signed Ryan Tunner, 
outfielder, and Marc Morris, Man Connolly and 
Mike Ericson, ptchers. 

DETROIT TIGERS: Agreed to terms with Dave 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
Bergman, first baseman on a one year contract. 


277-8338 


~ 



1131 Edison Rd 
$9.99 CDS $9.99 CDS 
Genesis­10.99 CD 
Enya-11.99 CD 
Keith Richards-11.99 CD 

KANSAS CITY ROYALS: Agreed to terms With Wally Joyner, first baseman, on a one year contrad. Traded Bobby Moore, oufflelder, to the Atlanta Braves for Rico Rossy, infielder. Assigned Domingo Mota. second baseman, to Baseball City of the Florida State League. 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS: Traded Chris Gwynn, outfielder, and Domingo Mota. second baseman, to the Kansas City Royals for Todd Benzinger, first baseman/outfielder. Traded Dennis Cook and Mike Christopher, pitchers, to the Cleveland Indians tor Rudy Seanez. ptcher. Traded Mark Griffin, outtielder, to the Montreal Expos tor Ben Vanryn, ptcher. Signed Don Wakatsu, catcher, and agreed to term& with Mitch Webster, outfielder, on a contract with Albuquerque of the Pacific Coast League. 
MONTREAL EXPOS: Traded Barry Jones, 
pitcher. to the Philadelphia Philles for Darrln 
Fletcher, catcher, and an undisclosed amount of 

cash. Waived Nelson Santovenla. Calcher, for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. 
NEW YORK METS: Traded Kevin McReynolds, outfielder, and Gregg Jefferies and Keith Miller, infleiders, to the Kansas City Royals lor Bret Saberhagen, pitcher, and Bill Pecota. infielder. Traded Hubie Brooks, outfielder, to the CaiWornia Angels for Dave Gallagher, outfielder. Traded Blaine Beany, pitcher to the Montreal Expos tor Jeff Barry, outfielder. Traded Jeff Gardner, Infielder, to the San Diego Padres for Steve Rosenberg, pitcher. 

PHILADELPHIA PHILUES: Traded Von 
Hayes, first baseman/ outfielder, to the CaiWornla 
Angels for Kyte Abbott, pitcher, and Ruben Amaro, 
outfielder. Traded Bruce Ruffin, pi1cher, to the 
Milwaukee Brewers lor Dale Sveum, infielder. 
Agreed to terms with Mariano Duncan, second 
baseman, on a two-year contrad and Danny Cox, 
pitcher, on a minor league contract. 
PITTSBURGH PIRATES: Signed Brian Fisher, 
pitcher, to a minor league contract. Signed Steve 
Buechele, third baseman, to a lour-year, S 11· 
million contract. Announced that Mike LaVaDiere, 
calcher, has accepted salary arbitration offer. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS: Traded Kevin 
Mitchell, outfielder, and Mike Remlinger, pitcher, to the Seattle Mariners for Bill Swift, Mike Jackson and Dave Burba, pitchers. Agreed to Ierma with 
Don August, pitcher, on a contract with Phoenix of the Pacific Coast League. Walved Rick Parker, ouffielder, tor the purpose of giving him his 
unconditional release. Designated Rafael Novoa, pitcher, for assignment. 
TEXAS RANGERS: Agreed to terms with Brian Downing, designated hitter, on a one year contract, and Geno Petralft, catcher, on a two-year contract. Purchased the contracts ot Benigno Castillo, ouffielder, David Rolls, catcher, and David Amarcon, pitcher, from Salt Lake City ct the Pioneer League. 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS: Signed Kent Anderson, infielder, Julian Van, first baseman, and Butch Davis, outfielder, to minor league contracts. 

10 9 Mon-Sat 11 7 Sunday 
$9.99 CDS 
7.99 Tape 
7.99 
Tape 

8.99 
Tape 



-BUY-SELL-TRADE USED CDS & TAPES -MORE $10.99 CDS THAN ANYONE!! -IMPORTS -CDS & VIDEOS -BLANK TAPE ALWAYS ON SALE -AREA'S LARGEST SELECTION OF CDS! 
THE MANAGEMENT OF SUPPORT SERVICES WOULD LIKE TO WISH ALL OF THE SUPPORT ,. 
f SERVICES TEAM 

A VERY MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A PROSPEROUS NEW YEAR! 



Sanara Hairston Penny Medina Michael Swartz 
Building Services 
DawnEmmans Francisco Mercado Margaret Szalay 
Landscape Service:

Mary Hall Carrie Metz Walter Taberski 
Michael Adamek 
Sylvia Hand Norma Michael Mildred Tase 
Jerrylene Adams Rhonda Barkley
Robert Harris Shirley Miller Savannah Taylor
Anselmo Alonso Frances Thompson Tammy Bergl
Patti Hayden Rosie Mitchell
Pauline Alvarez Donna Tierney SC_ott Oark
Mary Heller Margaret Molnar Jeffrey Coates
Maxine Appleby Sandra Tirotta-Chabera
Barbara Henry Curry Montague Arthur Ellis
Nancy Balderas Christine Traxler
Patricia Henson Duerell Montague Raul Gonzales
Edward Balla Jimmy Troupe
Hue Hoang 

RC Moore Richard Greene
Mary Balog Florence Turza
Kelli Hoke Phyllis Mortakis Gary Herr
Bertha Barraza Joan VanAcker
Mona Holdeman 

Theresa Moskwinski 
William Klein

Stella Batson Denna Vance
Harvey Holmes Dale Moss
Kathy Beasley John Vanderbosch Dennis Krol Carol Horton Lillia11 Murphy Rick Milliken 
Charles Bell Margaret Varnak 
-.

Helen Horvath JoseiJh Negri Binh Nguyen
Wanda Benjamin Tenette VerhaegenMarie Hough _Jimmy Neill
Louann Bestle Mary Vicsek Dennis Payne
Helen Hubler 
Marilyn Neill

Gerald Bickel Christopher Vitale Ann Pugh
Della Hudgen 

Bernadine Nemeth
Mary Black Debra Walters Roland Rosander
Linda Hunter 

Phetsamone Nettavong Diane Sabaj
Michelle Bocardo Leo Warbington
Phyllis Huston 

Somphone Nettavong Allen Schlundt
Carl Borsch Bernadette Warren
Tracy Ingle

Barbara Bour Sara Newsome Carol Warren Michael Spice
Bill Jackson 

Collene Brady Patrick O'Hara Mary Weaver Ronald Spitaels
Katherine Jacobs 

Emma Owens David Thibault
~ Arnetta Brock Carl Webb
Queen James

8." Suzanne Brzezinski Rosalyn Palus Henrietta Wellman Bill Willard
Richard Jankowski 

Margery Payne
Lucille Budny Lola Weston
Weldon Jefferies

•,: Tammy Bystry Carla Peat Ralph Whitbeck
Sandra Johns

Eldonna Cabanaw Norma Pena Sylvester Wichlacz
Peggy Johnson

~ Phyllis Campbell Marlene Pendergrass John Wien
' 
Viola Johnson

\J" Elvira Caron Cheryl Phillips Clarence Williams
Annie Jones

:(!. Marlene Carter Joann Phillips Daniel Williams
Elroy Jones ~· Sarah Champagne John Piechowicz Debra Williams
James Jones 

I 
Diana Christian Vicki Price Mary Williams
Joan Kaizer 

• • Barbara Clark Joan Radanovich Sharon Williams
Harold Keene 

Deborah Clark Clement Rafinski Mary Wilson
Jeanne Keller 

: 
Wanda Clayton 
Patricia Rans 
Nathaniel Wilson
Stella Kirkman

•,: Rose Clemans Esther Ratajczak Jessica Wisler
Lucille Knox 

• Opal Clymer Dorothy Ray Janina Wlochowski
Emilia Kolesnik 

•· 
•,: John Cogan Arvilla Reed Charles Wynegar
Ervin Koszyk

Wanda Colburn Mary Rigley Ann Yandl
Lorraine Koszyk 

Lawrence Robinson Sylvia ZalasEthel Kovacs 
Sweet C. Robinson 
David Conrad ~ 
Laszlo Kovacs

Victoria Cotton Mary Rosetta
Matilda Kowalski 


•,: Rose Darr 
Terry Roy General Services
Kenneth Kramer

Nancy Dausman' ~ John Rozycki
William Krill

Joe Davis :...rr '­
Maria Salazar Kevin Anthony
Robert Kubisiak

Vera DeMike Sandra Sanders David Bierwagen
Susan Labis

Maria Delgado Irma Savoie 
Mark BrockJanina Larkin

•· ·,: Harold Ditsch Lillian Scanlon 
Keith Bruce
Paul Larkin

Philip Dixon Christine Schaal Charles GroveAna Laskowski
: . 
•• Josephine Dregits Sherri Schram 
Robert MellFrank Laskowski

'· Cheryl Duncan Donna Sexton Roderick Powell
Diane Lee

Sherry Eby Nancy Sherwood Oscar SandovalRoseann Lemert
•,: David Edwards James Sholty George SchrammCheryl Leonard
Mamie Engle Dale Shorter Frederick TaghonJames Lepel
~ Dolores Eppolito 
Henriette Shuamber
Mary Lightner

I' Cathy Feltes Thomas Shuamber 
Rebecca Luchowski 
JoAnn Sikorski

I, Patricia Feltes Mail Services
JoRae Lukowski 
Betty Singer

~: Bruce Fidler Dorothy Finney Wayne Mack Diana Singleton Karen Bauer Robert Maenhout 
Juli Hemphill
: : Novelene Flenoy James Smith 
Deborah Malicki Sherry Tokarski
Martha Smith

Henry Flis 
David Mannen Judy Zook
:(!. Ella Frederick Ida Smoot 
' Herminia Martinez
\j: Georgiana Fuentes Donald Sopczynski
Florida Maxwell

Ofellia Fuqua Francis Sousley
Lorene Maxwell Transportation services

• Nancy Gambee Jeffrey SparksKenneth McAtee
Franklin Gentry Richard Spenner Evelyn Gills Dolores McDonald Mary Stabnik Brenda Durrenberger 
•,: Phyllis Glassburn Tillie McDonald Lisa Steel Amparo M~rtinez Helen McDowell Henry Woolley
• Reginald Glon Jozefa SteiningerDorothy McGiown
·· •,: Dorothy Grenert Kathleen StopczynskiPatricia Medders
Mary Griesinger Billie Strom Annette Grooms Norma Swanson " Ellen Gunn Troy Haff 
THANK YOU FOR SHARING YOUR SKILLS WITH US DURING 1991! 
page 16 
Saberhagen traded to Mets for McReynolds, others 

l 
MIAMI BEACH (AP) -Trading Bret Saberhagen away from 
Kansas City turned out to be a difficult experience for every­one involved.

j The Royals traded Saberhagen and infielder Bill Pecota to the
) 
New York Mets late Wednesday night for Kevin McReynolds, 

l 
1 Gregg Jefferies and Keith Miller in the biggest deal of the winter meetings. 
l 
Mets general manager AI ~ Harazin felt nervous just about talking about the deal while the teams put it together and Roy­
als GM Herk Robinson realized U.ealing away the two-time Cy Young winner might not be a popular decision. Saberhagen is 
Women 
continued from page 20 
against the Wolverines (1-3), who have three players averaging over eight rebounds per game. 
Leading the way is 6-foot-2 junior Trish Andrew (20.0 ppg, 
10.8 rpg, 3.5 blocks). An honorable mention All-Big Ten player last year, Andrew is the leading returnee from last year's 11-17 Michigan squad. 
Joining Andrew in the front­court is junior Nikki Beaudry 
(10.8 ppg, 8.3 rpg). who took over for Michelle Hall (7.5 ppg, 
8.5 rpg) in the starting lineup two games ago. Beaudry has led the Wolverines in rebounds since becoming a starter, aver­aging 10.5 rebounds per game against Toledo and Bowling Green. 
The other likely Michigan starters are junior Jen Nuanes, senior Char Duran and fresh­man Carrie Stewart. 
A game-by-game look at the rest of Notre Dame's opponents over break: 
LOYOLA (MD)-The 3-4 Greyhounds are off until they play the Irish on December 




1.-----------,
• Buy 4* sessions at the regular I I-price and ~ 4 FREE • Buy 5 I I and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and I I Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA1 I
L------------1 
U...OlllllrCualngCo. 
...._iiiiiNDIAN RIDGE P ­
NEXT TO~ GRAPE RD.• MISHAWAKA 
2n-1fM6 
DdyN -----41 Sal 
. ---···----·---­


a little uneasy about it, too. "It's going to be a hard time trying to adjust to a new league and a new city," said Saberha­gen, 110-78 lifetime and 13-8 last season with a 3.08 ERA. "We really liked it here in Kansas City." Saberhagen, 27, grew up in the Royals organization and won the Cy Young in 1985 with a 20­6 record and in 1989 with a 23­6 mark. He led the Royals to a World Series victory over the St. Louis Cardinals in '85 at the age of 21. "I'm kind of shocked," Saber­hagen said. "When the phone rang, my wife answered and said it was Herk." 
21st. They are led by freshman Patty Stoffey (14.9 ppg, 8.9 rpg) and senior Mia Vendlinski (13.0 ppg). Its three wins have come against Maryland-Baltimore County, Saint Francis and Cor­nell. 
TEMPLE-The Owls (0-4) were blown out by Detroit Mercy last week by 22, and are averaging only 52 points per game so far this season. Tem­ple's leading scorer, Chantel Adkins (10.5 ppg, 6.5 rpg), is the only player in double fig­ures. 
SYRACUSE-The Irish will be in northwestern New York on New Year's Eve to face the 4-3 Orangewomen. A pair of guards, Erin Kenneally (14.3 ppg) and Angel Lewis (11.0 ppg), picked up the scoring slack until 6-foot-5 junior Holly Oslander, a second-team All-Big East member last year, re­turned from an injury. Notre Dame knocked off Syracuse 71­66 last season at the Joyce ACC to spark a 15-game win streak. 
LASALLE-The Irish start a five-game homestand against the 5-0 Explorers, who have been defeating opponents by an average of 18 points per game this season. Junior Jennifer Cole (22.0 ppg), a second-team 
Happy Birthday to • ~ [fQ)]lf illraland. 
Sean (20) and Erin (21) ~ 
Love, Mom, Dad, COlleen, Kelly, . and Kevin 
Happy 21st Birthday, 
IB3~UU :OOyrnlceir Ja111ary 11, 1992 
Love, 
Mother, Dad, ,....,, 
Tom, and Stave 

~~~-----~----------~-------­
The Observer 


All-MAAC player last year, is the main cog in the LaSalle at­tack. 
XAVIER-Notre Dame begins Midwestern Collegiate Confer­ence action against the 3-2 Musketeers. Xavier is vastly improved with the addition of two transfers this season. 6-foot guard Carol Madsen, who joins the Musketeers from Purdue, leads the team in scoring and assists, while 6-foot-3 center Janet Haneberg, who came 
from  Long  Beach  State,  is  
second  on  the  team  in  
rebounds.  

DAYTON-The Flyers (1-4) return all five starters from last year's 16-13 squad that was the only MCC team to defeat Notre Dame. 5-foot-8 guard Natalie Hill and 6-foot-2 forward Julie Arnold are the only Dayton players in double figures, as the Flyers have shot only 38 percent from the field all year. 
TENNESSEE-The defending national champions roll into South Bend the Sunday before classes resume. The current number-one team in the coun­try lost All-American Daedra Charles to graduation, but the Volunteers (3-0) are still loaded. Four players average in double figures for Tennessee, led by 

........ ....................................~--~ r. ,_ ....... , • toil .. ---· 
-:-.----~---­
Friday, December 13,1991 


~. .­



1. 
~-­
.. .; 
All-American candidate Dena Head, who along with Peggy Evans, scored 14 points apiece last year in an 88-71 victory over the Irish in Knoxville. 

1•m not making Ibis upl ~ is 211 Hence the term .,egan• Have agood ooel Love all or usl 
"TENSION AT THE HOLIDAYS? FAMILIES OF HOMOSEXUALS" opening remarks by Patrick Utz, Ph. D., Director University Counseling Center 
closed meeting for faculty and staff of University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Col~ge SUNDAY, DECEMBER 15, 3-5 p.m. AUDITORIUM LOUNGE HESBURGH MEMORIAL LIBRARY Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays at Notre Dame & St. Mary's College 
I ._,,,,,,,,•••~•c.•~..._.... 

-~-~~~-..~·~· • ----·· 1/1.; • •·*'-*-"··· ~ ........
)I> 

Friday, December 13,1991 The Observer page 17 

Men 
continued from page 20 
better results than what he has seen on defense thus far. 
The first-year coach sees the three-week hiatus as a chance to correct these problems and get back on track before the tough holiday road trip, which he feels confident about. 
"The schedule is tough, but it 
AT AZAR'S 

Now that you've danced 
the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azar'S. 

It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• 
Five Fluffy Omelettes 

• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

• 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time you·re not quite ...,,.,,.._ to call nanight, head to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all­
new LATE NITE menu. It'll tame the Midnight Munchies. 
AsaJt! 
BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 

is there, and we can't do any­thing about it," MacLeod com­mented. "What we can do is get as much out the these games as we can. This is a long road trip, and it is a great chance for us to pull together as a team." 
One thing MacLeod would like to see in these games is his team playing fundamentally sound basketball, no longer making the mistakes that have plagued the Irish throughout the early season. 
"I want us to start executing our plays and playing our de­fense the way it is supposed to be played," he added. 
Notre Dame will have to do these things to be successful in the first game of the trip on January 2 against Rick Pitino's Kentucky Wildcats. Their 4-1 record includes a 76-74 win over Indiana at the Hoosier Dome. 
"Against Kentucky, we'd pre­fer to have a low-scoring game. We are going to have 'to look for 
Sugar Bowl '92 Land Packages from $269 PP DBL OCC I(800) 348-1133 
Buker -roan 
lb~ 
PANCAKE HOUSE 
t~~~ 
LUNCH SPECIAL Mon.-Fri. 
FREE Hot Soup With Any Sandwich Order 
After 11:00 A.M. Please 
Open 7 Days A Week At 6:30A.M. 
Jamal Mashburn 

good shots," MacLeod said. "They play a full out running game, and right now we can't do that. Maybe a month from now we'll be able to, but we are not in the position to do that now." 
Though almost everyone on the Wildcats can shoot the three, this year's squad also has a strong inside force-Ja­mal Mashburn. 
The 6-foot-8 sophomore for­ward from Cardinal Hayes High School in New York City was Pitino's first recruit at Kentucky and averaged 12.9 points and 
7.0 rebounds per game as a freshman. This season he has developed into one of the premier big men in the South­eastern Conference. 
"Jamal Mashburn is as physi­cally talented as any player I've 
GOOD LUCK ONYOUR­FINALS 
DECEMBER SPECIAL 
House Specialty Oven Baked Apple Pancakes
$100:;: 
No Coupon Needed Serving Michiana For Over 26 Years 
U.S. 31 North In Roseland (Acros• From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 
MEDICAL WARNING: Failure to attend the Rankin MCAT course may be hazardous to your score. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S Be M.O.S 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 


ever coached," Pitino com­
mented. 
This is quite a complement, considering Pitino has coached a Final Four team at Provi­dence and Patrick Ewing and Charles Oakley while leading the New York Knicks to an At­lantic Division championship in 1988-89. 
Following the contest in the Blue Grass State, Notre Dame heads west to face the Harold Miner-led USC Trojans on Jan­uary 6. Miner, a 6-foot-5 junior swingman, was a preseason All­American selection by Street & Smith and Basketball Weekly, and he scored 35 points in last season's 105-95 Trojan win over the Irish. 
The Irish will then travel back across the country to face LaSalle on January 9. Once again this season the Explorers have a high-scoring guard and a talented starting five, but not much more. Randy Woods steps to the forefront to replace Doug Overton as the Explorers' "go­to guy" and 6-foot-6 Jack Hurd provides them with some inside punch. 
"The key to this game will be to stop Woods," MacLeod said. "We are going to use more people and use our good condi­tioning to take advantage of their lack of depth." 
Following the game in Philadelphia, the Irish will travel up the New Jersey Turn­pike to face North Carolina on January 11 at Madison Square Garden, where MacLeod coached the Knicks for the ma­jority of last season. 
"I am looking forward to go­ing back," MacLeod said. "I en­joyed New York and have a lot of fond memories there." 
MacLeod could add an upset of the Tar Heels to that group, but to do so the Irish will have to play a perfect game. Carolina returns 10 lettermen from last year's Final Four team, including the lone senior on the club-Hubert Davis, who averaged 13.3 ppg in 1990-91. 
"This is a great team. They are what you would expect from a North Carolina club," MacLeod commented. "They are deep, strong, talented and play good offense and defense." 
The trip concludes on Jan­uary 13 in West Virginia. The Mountaineers return three starters from last season's 17­14 team, which lost in the sec­ond round of the NIT. Their fast-paced offense is led by ju­nior guard Tracy Shelton, who averaged 17.8 ppg as a sopho­more. 
Overall, this road trip will has the potential to make or break the Notre Dame's season. A couple of upset wins could spark the Irish and instill them with the confidence to compete with the nation's best; however, five more losses would leave them at 1-9 and playing for nothing more than respectabil­ity. 
rmm:PW fill31J1JJDillY/ [ffffi) 
21 AT lAST! 
WE LOVE YOU 
Mom, Dad, Maura, Pop, EDean, Glelll, Gena, Kada, •d Larry. 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 


TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION 8c COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 

.,\ 

~---~---~-~------~ -----~.,.......,--~~~~··---____., 
page 18 The Observer Friday, December 13,1991 
Men's swimmers face Bowling Green 
New ran kings for women's tennis 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
The fall season was one of highs and a few "what ifs" for the Notre Dame women's tennis team, but when it was over, the team was back where it wanted to be, in rankings. 
Largely ignored and grossly underrated, the team was left out of the preseason poll, but a string of successful tourna­ments and a strong showing against one of the nation's better teams, Tennessee, brought the Irish back into the spotlight, finishing the season ranked 25th. 
Individually, junior Melissa Harris was rewarded for her outstanding play this fall with a meteoric rise in the singles poll. Harris, who started the season 31st in the country, won the Irish Invitational and the Rolex Regional 
~ockey hoping to ice Princeton 
By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish hockey team hopes to break the .500 mark when Princeton comes to the Joyce Fieldhouse this weekend for a two game series. 
The Tigers are 2-6-0, but five of the six losses have been by a goal or less. Terry Morris leads Princeton in scoring with eight goals and six assists, and goalies Craig Fiander and Rod Yorke have combined for a 4.50 goals against average. 
The Irish have an extra in­centive against the Tigers, as they suffered a close defeat last year. 
"They beat us last year in overtime," commented Irish coach Ric Schafer. "We want to even the score." 
The Tigers could see a new goal tender between the pipes against Princeton. Sophomore Greg Louder has recovered from the broken hand he suf­fered in pre-season and may be ready for the Princeton series. 
Freshman John Rushin notched his first hat trick of the year last weekend against Lake Forest, and joined the elite ranks of Dave Poulin and Jeff Logan as freshmen to have netted hat tricks. Poulin holds the Irish record with eight ca­reer hat tricks, and Logan had five. 
This will be the last series of '91 for the Irish skaters, as they will journey to Switzerland from December 27 until the January 7. Notre Dame then comes home to face Michigan on January 10. 
The MCATis When? 
., 
.ISTANI.EY llKAPlAN 
TalrE Kaplan OrTaktYour Olancr.s 
1717 E. South Bend Av_e. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-413S 
tournaments, and her efforts carried her into the lofty realm of the top ten, at number seven. 
''I'm kind of shocked," said Harris, "And I think it's great. As a team I thought we would be in the top-20. People know that we are better than 25th, and it gives us something to shoot for." 
When dual match com­petition begins for the Irish, they will once again face a brutal schedule against some top teams including Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, and South Carolina. A strong performance against this schedule would prove the Irish worthy of an invitation to the NCAA team tournament. 
Said Irish coach Jay Louder­back, ''I'm excited for the spring. All the girls are ready to play. We have a very tough schedule, but I'm looking for­ward to it. It should be a good spring." 

By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Coming off a big win at last weekend's National Catholic Swimming and Diving Champi­onships, the men's swim team is looking to put another one in the win column tonight at Bowling Green. 
The Irish dominated the com­petition at last weekend's meet on the way to their third straight title, and coach Tim Welsh believes it was a confi­dence builder for his team after a tough fall season. 
"The National Catholic win was a very big one," he com­mented. "We had a very chal­lenging fall and for the team to come together and show the unity and focus needed to win was really a boost." 
That unity and focus will be needed again tonight as the 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Sophomore Jason Konesco, shown here against Kent State will use his defensive skills when the Irish face Princeton and others o~er break. 
HEY CESAR-GOIN' TO SENIOR BAR? HOPE YOU CAN HOLD YOUR DRINKS AS WELL AS HE CAN! 
HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY! Love, Dill, Mom, Dad, Cynthia, and Phantom. 
Beth Hinchey ... Bahinch...Hincherama.•.Skeleton Hinchey... The Hinchmeister ... eating an apple...tempting the men...turning 21. .. 
Happy Blrthdayl LIVI. .-.U11. Nlcllll, IIICL llziMI 

Irish face a tough Bowling Green team. After last week­end's draining meet and with final exams approaching, that may seem like a difficult task, but Welsh doesn't agree. 
"We have a chance to win a meet in an excellent pool and that should be our focus," Welsh said. 
Several individuals shined last weekend in Boston and will be needed again tonight for the Irish to be successful. Ed Broderick's first-place finishes in the 200 individual medley and the 200 breaststroke led the way, while Greg Cornick, Jim Birmingham and Colin Coo­ley earned one win each. 
The Irish also came out on top in the 200, 400 and 800 free relay on the way to their big win. 
•
·~ 
Freshman Mike Keeley added ·. 
·~
second-place finishes in the 500 freestyle and the 400 individual medley, while Broderick and Cornick finished second in the 100 butterfly and the 200 freestyle, respectively. 
With several swimmers being competitive in a such a variety of events, the Irish have been able to rely on their depth to pull them through some tough meets. 

"We have customarily been a ) very balanced team," Welsh ex­,·J plained. ''A lot of folks are around the same time and that depth is definitely one of our strengths." 
The Irish will be away from competition for a while, but they will be busy over break as they prepare for a trip to Texas A&M on January lOth. 


' 
·'· 

..... 
o\ mcrr.bc-1 uf11K l.1ulc l'•ulc»d fam•lv nllanlh-owncdb, ...KUf'CI-


Ironwood Plaza North 
Tele!Xlone (219) 2n-4488

(near the new Martin's) Highway 23 a.t Ironwood 
Hours: Mon.-Sal: 10:00-9:00

South Bend, IN 46637 Sunday: 10:00-5:00 







Friday, December 13, 1991 page 19
The Observer JAY HOSLER
SPELUNKER • 


i 
~ 


j l 
l 
! 
~ 
j 

And then AI realized his problems were much bigger 
i 
l 
l. 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 
1 Part of TNT 4 Despot 8 "-Again, 
Naturally"13 Bandleader Fields 14 Prefix meaning sun 15 Short putt 16 It's above the 
epaules17 "The Odyssey," e.g. 18 Pizzeria fixtures 19 Mr. Clapton20 Too-too clever 21 Grammatical symbol, 
for short 22 Portable sunshade 24 Zeta's neighbor 25 Something to make 
of oneself 28 After alma, pia, or 
dura 30 Ghostlike 31 Cosmetician Lauder 32 Aeschylus, Euripi­
des, et a1. (2 wds. ) 37 Prevention unit 38 City in central 
Spain39 Was upheld 40 Congressional act of 
1941 45 Bando or Mineo 
~I,. 
-II:
' 
46 Red dyes 9 Output from 47 Embarrass Vesuvius 50 Half of former TV 10 "The Mikado," e.g.
duo --11 Impossible cribbage 52 Henry or McHenry hand 53 Cartoon character, 12 Traps
Mr. -13 Sheldon's "In His 54 Circle dance " 
55 Quantity in a 23 Gave financial quincunx backing 56 Actor Richard, and 26 Depart
family 27 Had prime 57 Like Frere Jacques responsibility 58 "Country" Slaughter 28 Military "fruit 59 Comedienne Martha, salad" 
and family 29 "-Lay Dying" 60 Blockhead 32 Floating cobweb 61 Kojak and Columbo 33 Turnip variety
(abbr.} 34 Famous World War II plane (2 wds.) 35 Business subject, DOWN for short 1 Beat ----(be 36 Fabulous place or exonerated) car (2 wds.} 2 Put out, in 41 Famous tower baseball 42 Consecrate 3 Drug-yielding plant 43 Automatic control of South America systems, for short 4 Sight from Califor-44 Senator Kefauver 
nia's Rte. 1 48 Unit of loud­5 Hollow and deep ness 6 Dismounted 49 Adam's brother 7 1978 baseball MVP 50 Neighbor of Sudan 8 on 51 King of the road 

than just a smashed truck. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Grilled Turkey Steak Mozzarella Sandwich Shrimp :Poppers Vegetable Calzone Beef Noodle Casserole 
Saint Mary's 
Batter Fried Fish Veal Parmesan Beef Tacos Deli Bar 
CAMPUS 
Friday 
9:30 a.m. -4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF holiday card and gift sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
10 a.m. -5 p.m. St. Nick's Christmas Bazaar. Lobby, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Student Government Board, Saint Mary's College. 
7 p.m. Encore performance of "A Midsummer Night's Dream." Theodore's. Sponsored by the London Program. 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "A Christmas Story." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
8:15 p.m. Christmas Concert. Notre Dame Glee Club, Notre Dame Brass Ensemble. Santa Claus is expected to attend. Stepan Center. Admission $1. {Tickets available in advance at the Information Desk, LaFortune Student Center.) Sponsored by Notre Dame Glee Club. 
Saturday 8 and 10:30 p.m. Film, "A Christmas Story." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
Sunday 
8 p.m. Lessons and Carols. Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Music Department and Campus Ministry, Saint Mary's College. 
s.tt.s. cbRts~mAs mov1e A Cbt(1se:mas s~ot-<.9 ­C>e-c. 13 & 1tl 

BILL WATTERSON 


LECTURES 
Sunday 
3 p.m. Discussion, "Tension at the Holidays: The Families of Homosexuals," Patrick Utz, director, University Counseling Center. Auditorium Lounge, ·-Hesburgh Library. 
~ffi_~f;~ _,,1 a & 10:30 pm $ 
150 'lje.aH o(ExcE.fL"'e.ncE. 

Cnsh1nq An~1~ot(1nm 
"".....,.,_~.....,~ 
~'"'
''THE SHIRT'' 

~ A~m1ss1on: $2 On Sale for the Rest of the Semester ~ Student Government Office ·~; 9-5 Weekda s 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 



---~-----~------:--------:--~~---~,__~~-~-..,___,____~---..-------~__,.,.~---------­
Sports 
page20 Friday, December 13,1991 

Irish basketball teams prepare for holiday games 
z,; E ' 

Men's trip no holiday Women face Michigan with ranked opponents tonight; Vols over break 
By MIKE SCRUDATO By RENE FERRAN
r 

Sports Writer Associate Sports Editor 
A break in the schedule could not have come at The Notre Dame women's basketball team a better time for the Notre Dame men's basketball concludes a three-game road trip tonight in Ann team. Unfortunately, the opponents do not get any Arbo(, Mich., as the Irish (1-4) take on Michigan at easier. 7:30p.m. 
After struggling through the first five games of After tonight's game, Notre Dame will have the 
the season, the 1-4 Irish now takes three weeks week off before hosting the-J..pyola Greyhounds next 
off to try to regroup before heading out on the Saturday in the first of seven games it will play over 
road for five games over Christmas break, Christmas break. 
including contests against fifth-ranked North The Irish head into tonight's game off a tough 90-86 
Carolina at Madison Square Garden and at ninth­overtime loss to 24th-ranked Georgia last Sunday, a 
ranked Kentucky. game in which they fought back from a 20-point first­
"The break is good for us," said Irish coach John half deficit. Coach Muffet McGraw points to that MacLeod. "We have a lot of things to work on, and comeback as evidence that her young team may we have plenty of time to practice them." finally be turning the corner. 
The two things which MacLeod is most "We're starting to come around," said McGraw. disappointed with are the amount of turnovers "The offense is starting to gel. We've found seven or and the ineffectiveness of the newly-instituted eight people that we know we can count on, and man-to-man defense. they're developing good chemistry. 
Thus far the Irish have committed 20 or more "I'm impressed with this team's heart, it's desire. turnovers in three of their five games, including We've come back in every game this year, and it just 23 in their 78-54 loss on Wednesday night at shows the pride this team has, what it's capable of." Boston College. One factor could be Notre Dame's However, Notre Dame has been the cause of many attempt to pick up the tempo of its offense this · of its own problems this season. Until the Georgia season. game, the Irish had not shot 50 percent all year, and 
"When we run, we take the risk of turning the are averaging 28 turnovers through their first five ball over," MacLeod added. "However, I feel we games. can be a good fast break team and still not have a "We've been working on making the smart play, the lot of turnovers." sure pass (in practice)," explained McGraw. "Our 
MacLeod feels that the team's turnover problem number one goal is to cut down on our turnovers. It is a result of a lack of execution. . would help our defense, because we've been giving up 

"We are throwing the ball to areas it won't go; too many easy baskets." our outlet passes have been too long; we are not One player who has begun to emerge for Notre running our plays properly and guys are going to , Dame is freshman Letitia Bowen, who missed the first the wrong spot. Some of these things have been·~ three games with a thigh bruise. She has averaged six caused by the opposition's defensive pressure, but •' ~ .-points and seven rebounds since returning to the
' ·~ 

a lot of it we're doing to ourselves." ~ r. lineup against Purdue, and providing the Irish with
··.~ 

MacLeod is also concerned about the Irish's. ··. ·" another force underneath the boards. defense which has given up 74.6 points per game ' ' "She's so aggressive going to the boards," said this season. Despite the fact that this is Notre McGraw. "It's something we definitely needed." Dame's first year in the man-to-man, he expected And it will be something they will need tonight 
see MEN I page 17 see WOMEN/ page 16 
Women's swimming looking to beat Bowling Green for first time 
Green placed first and third to Becky Wood. The two will face as us at 200 yards, and tunity for the young Notre 


The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp The Irish swimming team will take on Bowling Green this weekend and Texas A & Mat the end of break. The team will spend the majority of break training in Texas. 
By JENNIFER MARTEN very last event, the 400 Welsh has "been faster than we reputation, and swimming Sports Writer freestyle relay, and Bowling • Men's swimming 1page 18 have been at 1000 yards, as fast against them is quite an oppor­
win the meet, 143-157. ofT twice in the meet. competitive at 500 yards." Dame swim program. It is the
' After a successful weekend in "I expect it to be an extremely Reed is a backstroker whose "Bowling Green has a very chance for some national expo­
}? Boston at the National Catholic tough meet," said Welsh. "Both times this year are close to Irish balanced team. They have one sure.
( Championships, the Notre Dame 
i teams are significantly im-All-American Tanya Williams'. or two fast people in every The freshmen who swam ex­
women's will travel to Bowling proved over last year." Williams was a triple winner for event," said Welsh. "Their times tremely well at the National
Green this weekend for a dual Swimmers to watch for the Irish last weekend with going into the meet are believ-Catholics will need to turn in
meet. Bowling Green will be Josie victories in the 200 individual ably good, but not unbelievable. another set of strong perfor­
The Irish have been tradi­McCullough, Jody Reed, and medley, 400 individual medley, It should be a good tough mances if the Irish expect to be
tionally unsuccessful against Keely Yenglin. McCullough, a and 200 backstroke events. meet." competitive.
Bowling Green. In all of Tim breaststroker, is one of the best McCullough and Reed will give After Christmas, the team will "They (Texas A&M) have a

Welsh's six years of coaching, swimmers in the Midwest in her Bowling Green a giant head head down to sunny San very strong program," said
the Irish have never beaten the

1~ Falcons. Last year, Notre Dame stroke and has already made start to a medley relay team Antonio, Texas, for training. On Welsh. "We could be anything the qualifying times for the that is already very strong. January 4, the Irish will face from wonderful to awful. We
\ ':. ' won nine of 16 events, but were f ;~ national championships this Yenglin is a distance Texas A&M in a first-ever are going into it with a lot of
unable to win any of the relays. ',' \ ! t The meet came down to the year. She will provide some frees tyler who according to meeting. Texas A&M is a strong questions." heavy competition for senior program with an excellent
~ 
t 
.r I 
~........~....--~~~............................~........~--~~------.-~--------------~-.--~--------------------.-------------------------~·~ 


Photo courtesy University Archives Top: An early snowball fight (circa 1900) takes place on the road to Saint Mary's. Unlike campus snowball fights of today, priests are even involved. Bottom: The campus volunteer fire department, shown here in 1899, battled many of the over 30 blazes between 1842 and 1920. 


Transitional 
• 

Years 

By KELLEY TUTHILL 
Editor-in-Chief 

While few probably realized at the time, the turn of the century was an important time in Notre Dame's history. The University had set great expectations for itself and during this era prepared for greatness. 
The move toward a nationally-renowned institution of higher learning came in small steps rather than large ones. Gradually, through changes such as the building of Sorin Hall, Notre Dame set the stage for the transition that would come in the beginning of the twentieth century. 
In 1893, Notre Dame had 24 buildings on its 1,300 acres of land. The 542 members of the student body paid a tuition of $170 and a room and board fee of $200. There were 52 faculty members. 
The 1892-93 academic year marked Notre Dame's golden jubilee. The year should have been filled with celebration, but the deaths of several leaders during 1893 marred the year. 
President Thomas Walsh and Father Alexis Granger both died in July and in 
October, Father Edward Sorin died of 
Bright's disease. 

The legacy of Sorin lived on as evidence by the Golden Dome that was his dream, the Grotto and a dorm that bears his name. 
After the Great Fire of 1879, Sorin said the new Main Building should be crowed with a dome bearing a statue of the Virgin Mary. The new dome, however, should be gilded. 
"If all men fail me, there is one treasure that is always full, that of our most holy lady. When this school should grow a bit more, I shall raise her aloft so that without asking, all men shall know why we have succeeded here. To that lovely lady, raised high on a dome, a golden dome, men may look and find the answer." 
Despite opposition, Sorin's wishes came true. In 1888, the Golden Dome became a reality when the statue of Mary was hoisted on top of the Main Building. 
In 1888, Notre Dame distinguished itself as the first Catholic college to offer private living quarters. On New Year's Day in 1889, students first called Sorin Hall home. 
Another Sorin dream, to have a replica of 
see YEARS/page 2 

150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
page2 Frida~ December13, 1991 
Sesquicentennial Vignettes 
By Phi I Loranger 

Fresh off their American League championship of the previous year, the seemingly indomitable Chicago White Sox rode into South Bend in the spring of 1902 for a series of six exhibition games with the Fighting Irish baseball team. 
White Sox owner, Charles (the Old Roman) Comiskey, had heard that the Notre Dame squad played pretty fair ball, so he reasoned a match with the Notre Darners would provide his professionals with a reasonable challenge at a more than reasonable price. Comiskey was known for his frugality-a trait that would eventually lead his underpaid players to revolt in the infamous Black Sox scandal of 1919. 
Comiskey and his manager, future Hall of Farner Clark Griffith, brought along their entire pennant-winning squad, which included the likes of star first baseman Frank Isbell, heavy hitting Fred Jones. base-stealing artist Sid Mertes, and 20-game winner Red Patterson. Griffith, who himself had led the American League in pitching in 1901 with a record of 24 ­7, had announced that he would surely pitch against the college boys. 
If the Windy City champions were looking for cannon fodder, they failed to find it at the little Catholic college on the Indiana prairies, an institution that boasted a total student body of only 7 40 young men, of which less than 150 were actual college-age men. 
At that time, Notre Dame also operated a school for preparatory students and youngsters aged six through 13 (the minims}. The University's baseball heros, the most popular athletes on campus, were the idols of the younger students. And, as the professional White Sox soon learned, that reverence was well earned. 
In addition to team captain Bob Lynch, who in the absence of a hired coach also served as chief mentor for the squad, the starting line up for Notre Dame included three other stars who would eventually become major leaguers-Phil (Peaches) O'Neill, Ed Ruelbach and Frank Shaughnessy. 
Though the Fighting Irish, then popularly known as the "Catholics" or the "Ramblers," would not succeed in garnering a victory in the fabled series, they came close. They threw a mighty scare into the haughty White Sox, earning a 12-inning tie, losing three games by a total of only six runs, and only getting solidly licked in two games when the depth of the professionals made the difference. 
The 12-inning standoff was accomplished in the opening game of the series. Notre Dame took the lead in the lOth inning, but the "home team" White Sox scored the tying run in the bottom half of the frame, and when two additional innings failed to break the deadlock, the contest was called on account of darkness with the score knotted at 8-8. 
The Blue and Gold once again had the Chicagoans on the ropes in the second contest only to come up short in a wild 16­14 loss. Ruelbach, Lynch and O'Neill led the Notre Dame of­fensive attack in the· game. First baseman Bob Fischer stunned the world champions by drilling home runs in both the tying and losing efforts, leaving both Comiskey and Griffith scratching their heads in anxiety. 
Harry Hogan took the mound for Notre Dame in game three. It wasn't one of his better days. When the dust had cleared at the close of the first inning, Hogan had surrendered seven runs by allowing six walks and six hits to the professionals. There was little to cheer about in the game that was played before a huge throng at South Bend's Springbrook Park (now Playland Park Golf Course}. 
Faulty base-running haunted Notre Dame in the fourth game, an 8-5 loss in which the Irish deserved a better fate. The defeat overshadowed the power-hitting of Lynch, and John Farley, who drove long home runs in the contest against the White Sox ace, John Katoll, probably convincing manager Griffith not to renew the contract of his former star hurler. 
Notre Dame saved its best effort for the next to last game. In spite of dropping the contest, 7-6, the Fighting Irish stole six bases on seasoned veteran catcher Eddie McFarland. In fact, it was McFarland's younger brother, rightfielder Harry, who dashed Notre Dame's hopes for its first victory in the series by making a spectacular diving catch of a bases-loaded drive off the bat of Farley to end the ten-inning affair. 
By the time of the final contest, it was obvious the younger Notre Dame players were not used to such a grind; they were weary. Shortstop Lynch picked up his 11th hit of the series, but the three Irish pitchers and a tired Notre Dame defense could not stop Chicago's onslaught. The White Sox claimed a 15-5 victory. 
Impressed with their hustle and baseball savvy, Griffith was quick to congratulate the Notre Dame players. But he had also had to be wondering about how he was going to successfully patch up some of the weaknesses in his own line up, especially among his pitchers and catchers. The Chicago manager had found his White Sox lacking against the Fighting Irish. 
In the series, Notre Dame had whacked out four home runs, the White Sox had none. Notre Dame finagled 12 stolen bases, Chicago managed just seven. And Notre Dame out-hit the champs, 73 -72. 
Notre Dame would continue on to compile an enviable 16-4-1 record against some of the stiffest competition in the nation during that 1902 season. Meanwhile, the White Sox would stumble in their quest for another American League pennant, finishing fourth in the eight-team circuit. 
It seemed that the longest pre-season exhibition series ever played between a college team and a professional aggregation had paid bigger dividends for the Irish. 
And that's the way it was during Notre Dame's first 150 years. 
Phil Loranger is a free -lance writer and a 1962 graduate of Notre Dame. He is the author of several books. including a history ofSouth Bend from 1860 to the present. 
Making history 
Brothers team up to create 'Victory March' 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Editor-in-Chief 
Few students can boast that their contributions have had an impact on Notre Dame after they have graduated. Yet John and Michael Shea made a contribution that still has an impact-over 80 years later. 
These brothers, from Ossining, N.Y., wrote the Notre Dame "Victory March" in 1908 and despite occasional controversy, it is still wildly popular. 
Michael, who attended Notre Dame from 1900 to 1905, wrote the music. After he became a priest in 1912, he studied music in Rome. He was the pastor of the St. Augustine's Church in Ossining until his death on Aug. 18, 1940. He studied music under William Churchill Hammond, twice head of the American Organist's Guild. He also studied church music with the Benedictine Monks of Solesmnes and obtained a licentiate at the Pontifical School of Musicin Rome. 
A 1906 graduate, John was the lyricist of the duo. Active as a student, he was an accom­plished shortstop, was president of his senior class and helped start the school yearboo~. the Dome. 
The "Victory March," one of the most famous of all school songs, was written in a room on the first floor of Sorin Hall. The song was first played at Washington's Birthday exercises at Notre Dame on Feb. 22, 1909, although it was not heard at an athletic event until 10 years later. 
The "Victory March" was one of the first official college songs to be written with an original tune. 
Even after the Sheas left Notre Dame, their love for the school continued. Before Michael died, he asked to be buried in the community cemetery with the Holy Cross priests. Although he was not a member of the congregation, Michael was granted his wish. 
"Perhaps it was only just that two members of a notably musical race, the Irish, should contribute the battle-cry of 'Fighting Irish,' " Ironically, the Shea brothers weren't too observed a Scholastic writer in a 1935 article. happy with their effort. A letter written by 
That writer also showed a little Notre Dame Michael reveals that he and his brother had snobbery when he expressed his disgust at high composed the song as an incentive to schools copying the University's song using succeeding classes. He regarded their work as different lyrics. "very amateurish." 
"It must make a Notre Dame man snarl and That 'amateurish' effort, though, was honored gnash his teeth to hear a wheezing high school as the "greatest of all fight songs" in 1969, as orchestra lead a student body to 'Cheer, cheer part of the salute to 100 years of college for old Podunk high.' Imitation, however, is the football. 


Years 
continued from page 1 
the Lourdes grotto, became a reality after his death. In the spring of 1896, construction began on Our Lady of Lourdes Grotto. 
Landmarks weren't the only distinguishing feature of this era. The faculty was upgraded through the efforts of Father Thomas Walsh, University president from 1881-93. Men like William Hoynes, in law, Albert Zahm, in science, and Maurice Francis Egan, in liberal arts, improved the educational offerings. 
According to a 1888 article in The Scholastic, special courses at Notre Dame included English and law. "Indeed, so eminently practical is the legal president from 1893 to 1906. Father John Cavanaugh, training of this school that the During this time, Notre Dame University president from 1906 
diploma admits its recipient experienced a struggle over the to 1919, lead the gradual without further examination to direction it should take in the change in focus from the the Bar of Indiana." future. preparatory school to the 
Walsh, like Sorin, tried to college. He is known as one of promote Notre Dame on a Men like Father John Zahm, the most impressive presidents national level. Under his a brilliant physical chemist in the University's history. 
tenure, Notre Dame started to (among other talents), had In an 1888 article in The 
participate in intercollegiate intellectual hopes for the Scholastic, a wrote that he saw athletics, including the first University. While Zahm the Notre Dame of the future 
football match in 1887. envisioned Notre Dame as " ... still engaged in the same Expansion of the campus was someday "the intellectual pursuit, still striving for the also extensive during this center of the American West," self-same end, still influenced period. Morrissey felt satisfied with the by the same true spirit, and 
Father Andrew Morrissey achievements the University filled with the same lofty held the office of University had already accomplished. aspirations." 


--------~------------------------------~----------~---------------------------------------~~--~--------~--------­
150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
Friday, December 13, 1991 page 3 

iiJ.t'· t. 
r· 
-~~ :~·· 'if~ 
:::N 

Photos courtesy of ND Archives Top: With the completion of Sorin Hall 1888, Notre Dame became the first Catholic college in America to offer private living quarters. Right: Sorin Hall's rooms in the 1890s were "large enough to encourage study, and at the same time small enough to discourage visiting." 
An otter is born 
In 1888, Sarin Hall offers students private rooms 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Editor-in-Chief 
While today it may seem a little run down compared to dorms on the "Mod Quad," Sorin Hall was considered lux­urious in 1888. And compared to the communal-style dormito­ries of previous years, it was. 
Until the late 1880s most Notre Dame students slept in barrack-style dormitories and studied in communal study halls. Some lucky seniors, though, we able to reside in private rooms in the Adminis­tration Building. 
Sorin was designed as both a solution to the overcrowding of other University facilities and as a departure from what Fa­ther John Zahm and others thought was a strange under­graduate lifestyle. 
The new residence hall, com­posed entirely of private rooms, was largely the result of Zahm and University President Father Thomas Walsh's efforts. 
Though many faculty mem­bers and parents though the ideal immoral, Walsh commis­sioned Edbrooke and Burnham of Chicago to submit plans for a "Collegiate Hall." Notre Dame became the first Catholic college in America to offer private living quarters. 
On May 27, 1888, Father Ed­ward Sorin blessed the corner­stone as part of the student celebration of the fiftieth an­niversary of his ordination. 
The Collegiate and Law stu­dents had moved into Sorin Hall on New Year's Day, ac­cording to a Jan. 12, 1889, edi­tion of The Scholastic. 
The Chapel of St. Thomas Aquinas was blessed by the Very Rev. Father General and Fathers Morrissey and Fitte on Jan. 11. The building itself was dedicated afterwards. 
The hall originally contained sixty private rooms that were "large enough to encourage study, and at the same time small enough to discourage visiting." The dormitory, ac­cording to written accounts, contained all of the modern conveniences. A 1897 addition expanded Sorin to its present size. 
·(:.' 
On the first floor was the chapel of St. Thomas Aquinas and the law department's lec­ture rooms, reading rooms and library. 
The basement, mostly a trunk room, also contained smoking and reading rooms in 1889. 
According to The Scholastic, the new living quarters were supposed to help students get better results in individual and class work. 
English professor Maurice Francis Egan saw the aban­donment of residential re­quirements as essential to 

Notre Dame's development as an undergraduate college. 
He did not, however, want any rules lessened: "The rules of order and cleanliness are not more stringent or more scrupulously enforced at West Point than in Sorin Hall." 
In fact no visiting in the rooms was allowed, lights went out at a fixed hour, and noise, liquor and women guests were strictly prohibited. " ... The dis­cipline, though firm, is far from being severe, and is for the promotion of the welfare of the students," according to a Scholastic article. 
Despite the strict regulations, the hall was limited to upper­classmen, and admission was reserved for those with high academic standing. 
Its erection is an important symbol of the growth occurring at Notre Dame at the turn of the century. The dorm symbol­izes the eventual change from a preparatory institution to a reno\\ned university. 
A Scholastic writer thought the day when the corner stone for this dormitory was laid should long be remembered "and on its every anniversary there should be held some comemoration in honor of the day on which Notre Dame en­tered on a new era that will in time make her the foremost of American universities." 

Editor's Note: 
This special section is the third in a series exammmg student life at Notre Dame throughout its 150-year history. Special thanks are given to Charles Lamb and the staff at University Archives. Without their assistance, this project would not been possible. The research done by Thomas Schlereth, professor of American Studies, was also beneficial. 
The next section in this series will appear in the Jan. 31 edition of The Observer. This section will focus on student life at Notre Dame during the period 1910-1935. 
Kelley Tuthill served as the editor of this section, while Lisa Eaton handled design and layout. All photos are courtesy of University of Notre Dame Archives. 
-_.. 

-. 
-
-

---------~----~~---~-----------~ . ---~--~~~--­
150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
page 4 Friday, December 13, 1991 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame... 

Notre Dame loses to Michigan in first gridiron showdown 
By KELLEY TUTHILL Arbor boys gave a fine exhibi­Editor-in-Chief tion of skillful playing." The Scholastic writer said the 
Who could have known what game started a football boom they had started when a group and expressed the hope that of young men from the Univer­more contests would continue sity of Michigan traveled to in the coming years. In addi­.. South Bend to play the Univer­tion, "Captain Duffy, of the Ann sity of Notre Dame in a game of Arbor team, seemed to think football. we have material for an 
On Wednesday, Nov. 23, excellent football team." 1887, the humble beginnings of the Fighting Irish football team The Notre Dame Marching 
took place. The Irish lost 8-0. Band was there at that first 
"It was not considered a home game in 1887 and has match contest, as the home yet to miss a home game. team had been organized only Performing first in 1846, it is 
a few weeks, and the Michigan one of the oldest university 
/ boys, the champions of the bands in continual existence in West, came more to instruct the America. them in the points of the Rugby After the game, the players game than to win fresh lau­had dinner and University rels," reported The Scholastic. President Father Thomas 
Walsh thanked the boys from'Captain Duffy, of the Michigan for coming and Ann Arbor team, seemed "assured them of the cordial 
reception that would always
to think we have material 
await them at Notre Dame." 

versity won its first national Fighting Irish was officially that game and the press, after
for an excellent football 

championship through the ef-adopted by then-University overhearing the remark, re­It wasn't until five months
team.' forts of the Four Horsemen President Matthew Walsh in ported the game as a victory
after the first game until Notre 
and Rockne. 1927, no one really seems to for the "Fighting Irish." 
-Local Items column, 

Dame scored its first touch­Most, though. believe the
The Scholastic, Nov. 26, down-by fullback Harry Jew­'It was not considered a :~~l;ti~on~c~;~~e~ame got the 
term was coined by the press

ett in a rematch against the
1887 match contest, as the One legend has it that the as a characterization of Notre
Wolverines the following April. 
moniker was born during the Dame athletic teams, their
A little over a year later, in horne team had been first season of football. With never-say-die fighting spirit
1888, the Irish finally had a
At the time, the event did not organized Only a few Notre Dame leading North-and their Irish qualities of grit, 
seem very significant. A group victory-a 20-0 win over the 
weeks, and the Michigan western 5-0 at halftime of a determination and tenacity.
of Michigan students arrived on Harvard School of Chicago. 

game in E' anston, Ill.. tbe Therefore, the term probablythe Michigan Central Railroad boys, the champions of Wildcat fans began to chant, began as an abusive 
on Wednesday morning and Ironically, the team didn't 
the West, came more to "Kill the Fighting Irish. kill the expression directed toward were received by a committee even have a coach until 1894 instruct them in the Fighting Irish," as the second athletes from the small,of Notre Dame students. when James Morison was 
half opened. Catholic private institution. 
named to the position. points of the RugbyAfter touring the campus, the What was started that day 
game than to win fresh Another tale suggests the Today, however, the nick­
Michigan team donned their was a 104-year tradition that 
nickname originated during name and the team itself are 
white uniforms and took the now boasts eight national laurels.' 
halftime of the Notre Dame­sources of pride for the 
damp, muddy field. championships and seven -The Scholastic, Michigan game in 1909. With University. And while this 
"At first, to render our play­Heisman trophy winners. 

his team trailing, one ND year's Irish suffered a defeat at
Nov. 26, 1887
ers more familiar with the player yelled to his team­the hands of Michigan like 

game, the teams were chosen The transition in the program 
••• mates-who happened to have their predecessors did 104 
irrespective of college," it was came in 1913 when quarter­
The team has had several names like Dolan, Kelly. Glynn, years ago, many would agreereported. Then the game was back Gus Dorais became Notre nicknames throughout its his­Duffy and Ryan-"What's the they certainly have the 
played. Dame's initial first-team All­tory. Notre Dame competed matter with you guys? You're "material for an excellent Due to time constraints, the American-an honor gained by under the nickname all Irish and you're not fighting football team" like that other teams only played one-half of throwing passes to end Knute 
"Catholics" during the 1880s. worth a lick." Notre Dame won team did so long ago. 
one inning in which " ... the Ann Rockne. Then in 1924, the Uni­

V, ­


A Supplement to the Observer 
Friday, December 13, 1991 


..
. 
By ROLANDO De AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Over the last few years, the state of Florida has gained a reputation as a semitropical shopping mall for star football players. 
Eighteen of the first 100 players selected in last June's NFL draft attended either high school, college or both in Florida, and three of the top five schools in the current AP poll (Florida, Florida State and 
Miami)  are in the Sunshine  
State.  
When  Notre  Dame  meets  

fourth-ranked Florida in the Sugar Bowl January 1, the game will mark a homecoming of sorts for the Floridians on the Irish squad. 
The Irish football team is a team rich with Florida connec­tions. Notre Dame boasts ten players from Florida, including six in the talent-rich sophomore class and senior starters Derek Brown and Gene McGuire. 
Assistant coaches Gary Dar­nell and David Arnsparger coached at Florida, while Skip Holtz served as a graduate as­sistant at Florida State. Coach Lou Holtz lives near Orlando during the off-season. 
"When you're from Florida, I don't think it's the fact that you're playing against Florida players," said Holtz. "The dif­ference is, the players have got to live with this game. And that's what everyone is going to talk about when they go home." 
Most of the Floridians on the Irish roster were recruited by the Gators before current head coach Steve Spurrier came to Gainesville. 
Cornerback Tom Carter was leaning toward Florida early in high school before Florida ran into the NCAA infractions committee, earning two years' probation. 
"The day after coach Spurrier was hired, he called and talked to me about· Florida," said Carter. "But I had to tell him that I had committed to Notre Dame." 
Carter eliminated the Gators largely because the school's improprieties left him unsure of the program's future. A year after probation, however, Spurrier has led the team to its first SEC crown and its second consecutive 10-1 season. 
Two years earlier, Derek Brown had surprised his home­town fans in Merritt Island, Fla .. with the decision that he would attend Notre Dame. 

"My junior year, I was going to be a Gator," said Brown. "No one could tell me otherwise. But I got sick of people telling me to go to UF, and I said, 'Watch this.'" 
Like Brown, Kevin McDougal long thought that he would be at Florida, and resisted parental pressure to attend school in Gainesville. 
"I grew up on Florida foot­ball;" said McDougal. "But in the end, I decided that I needed to get away from home and see new places. My mother really wanted me to go there (Florida); she wanted me to stay close to home. But I told her I needed to get away." 
Notre Dame scored recruiting coups by winning players such as Brown, the Parade high school Player of the Year in 1986. The three Florida football powers, like many schools, use emotional tools to draw in-state players. 
"The recruiters' first priority is to get you to stay in the state and play," said sophomore Clint Johnson. "They make you feel that if you leave Florida, you're a traitor." 
Home-team support in Florida is comparable with college football fever in any state in the Big 10 or Big Eight. Sophomore tight end Oscar McBride, who hails from Chiefland, Fla., 35 miles southwest of the Gainesville campus, felt this pressure as he made his college choice. · 
"There were a lot of (Florida) alumni around my hometown," said McBride. "They would tell me how people at home would be able to take care of me. They said the farther I got from home, the more I would be for­gotten." 
However, Notre Dame's Floridians have ended up as vi­tal cogs in the Irish wheel. Brown, Carter, outside linebacker Greg Davis and McGuire all start for Holtz while several others, including Johnson and McDougal, have been available in times of need this season. 
McDougal. one of the backup quarterbacks for the Irish, at­tended Ely High School in Pom­pano Beach, Fla. His high school teammates included University of Florida lineback­ers Harvey Thomas and Leroy Jones. 
"We (Thomas and McDougal) were good friends from back home," said McDougal. "Our parents were friends, and we literally grew up together." 
The Sugar Bowl will provide many Floridians with the op­portunities to see old friends and rekindle old rivalries. 
When Brown was a junior-and a prospective Gator-he traveled to games with Merritt Island center Cal Dixon. 
"When Cal was being re­cruited by Florida, I would go with him to the games in Gainesville," said Brown. "He would get four tickets from the football team, and I would sit with him at the games." 
Dixon, a second-team All­American center for the Gators, will be reunited with his team­mate from Merritt Island at the Sugar Bowl. The Merritt Island Mustangs lost only three games during Brown's final two years. 
"I am really looking forward to hanging out with those guys," said Brown. "I haven't seen some of them in a few years." 
Clint "Cosmic" Johnson also 
see FLORIDIANS/page 7 


Irish Football '91 
page 2 Friday, December 13, 1991 
GAME INFO 

playing of the Sugar Bowl. This is the third trip to the bowl for both Notre 
Dame and Florida. This will be Florida's 
first appearance as SEC champions. 

1991 SCHEDULES 

~------------------------------__. 
Notre Dame, 3rd-ranked Gators set to wrestle in USF&G Sugar Bowl 

By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will have its hands full when it meets the University of Florida Gators in the USF&G Sugar Bowl on New Year's Day in New Orleans. 
The Irish (9-3) are coming off a regular-season-ending win over Hawaii, but the win was much closer than most people expected. 
It was also a win that probably did not help the confidence of a team which had come off back to back losses for the first time since 1987. 
On the other hand, the third-· ranked Gators stand at 10-1, coming off eight straight wins-including romps over Tennessee and Georgia-and a squeaker over Florida State that broke a four-game losing streak to the Seminoles. 
A lackluster 38-21 defeat in Syracuse on Sept. 21 is the only blemish on the Gators' schedule. They were a perfect 7-0 in the Southeastern Conference, the first time a team has gone unbeaten in conference play since 1977, and are making their first visit to the Sugar Bowl. 
The Gators will see an Irish offense that is potentially explosive, scoring almosf 36 points a game, and having 40-or-more-point outbursts on six different occasions. 
Quarterback Rick Mirer and 
Photo Courtesy Florida Sports Information Florida defensive tackle Brad Culpepper (50), shown here against Oklahoma State, is a force for the Irish offense to reckon with. 
fullback Jerome Bettis, recently named the team's co-Most Valuable Players, share the bulk of the offensive workload. 
Mirer, who set a single-season record with 18 touchdown passes, is eighth in the country in passing efficiency, with 132 completions in 234 attempts-good for 56.4 percent. He has 10 interceptions this season. Mirer has also scampered on the ground for 306 yards and nine scores, 
see WRESTLE/page 6 



Steve Spurrier 

After taking over as head football coach at Florida, Spurrier, who himself started at quarterback for the Gators and was a first-team All-America selection in 1965 and '66, has directed Florida to a 19-3 record and an SEC championship. In his collegiate career, Spurrier's teams are 29­15-1. 
Shane Matthews 
The junior quarterback from Pascagoula, Miss., was named the 1990 SEC Player of the Year, and is a top Heisman trophy candidate this season. On the year, Matthews is 218­361 (.604 completion rate) for 3,130 yards, with 18 intercep­tions and 28 touchdowns. 

Brad Culpepper 
The 6-2, 263 lb. defensive tackle from Tallahassee, Fla., is in his third starting season on Florida's defensive line. After earning second-team all-SEC honors in 1990, Culpepper is again piling up monstrous statistics, with seven sacks and 82 total tackles. 
Willie Jackson 
A redshirt sophomore, Jackson has catapulted into the spotlight with 51 receptions (most on the team) for 725 yards and 10 touchdowns. At the start of the season, Jackson was listed behind teammates Monty Duncan and Aubrey Hill at wide receiver. His longest catch of the season was a 35­yarder against Syracuse. 
Will White 
The junior free safety from Tallahassee. Fla., was a Thorpe Award fmalist in 1990 and also earned All-America honors. In 1990, White ranked second in the nation with seven interceptions. This season, White has picked off four passes and registered 4 7 tackles (21 solo). 

Irish Football '91 
Friday, December 13, 1991 page3 
1992 marks third Irish visit to Sugar Bowl 

The Observer/John Rock Derek Brown (dark jersey) drags a bevy of Southern Cal defenders for a big gain. Brown's play has helped the Irish to their third appearance in the Sugar Bowl. 

1973, '81 championships decided in New Orleans 

SUGAR 
BOWL FANS COME PARTY WITH US AT 


ON MAPLE STREET 
NIGHTLY SPECIALS 
DISCOUNTS WITH NOTRE DAME I.D. 
866-5205 861-7615 
By ANTHONY KING 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish have been to the Sugar Bowl on two occasions, both of which matched them up against number' one ranked teams. 
In 1973, third-ranked Notre Dame journeyed to New Orleans to face the Crimson Tide of Alabama. Bear Bryant brought the Tide in with a 11-0 record, while the Irish came in with a 1 0-0 record. 
What was touted to be the game of the century lived up to all its expectations, as Notre Dame came out on top of a 24­23 thriller. 
The Irish defense was the key for the first 15 minutes, as they completely shut down the Tide offense. The Alabama offense did not gain a single yard in the first stanza. 
Notre Dame quarterback Tom Clements engineered a 64-yard 


drive for the first Irish score, 
connecting on three passes to 
split end Peete Demmerle for 
gains of 19, 26, and 14 yards. 
Fullback Wayne Bullock's six­
yard touchdown run completed 
the drive, but a bad snap on the 
extra point kept the lead at 6-0. 
The Alabama offense got on 
track in the second period, 
however. Tide running back 
Randy Billingsly took it in from 
six yards out to put Alabama on 
top 7-6. 
The Irish struck back imme­
diately, however, using their 
special teams squad to regain 
the lead. AI Hunter return a 
kickoff 93-yards for Notre 
Dame-a Sugar Bowl record. 
After a two-point conversion, 
the Irish advantage swelled to 
14-7. 

The Crimson Tide hit a field 
goal shortly before half to make 
the halftime score 14-10. 
Alabama received the second 
half kickoff and drove 93 yards 
for the score. Wilbur Jackson 
cashed it in from five yards out 
to give the Tide a 17-14 lead. 
An Alabama fumble set Notre 
Dame's next score. Linebacker 
Drew Mahalic recovered the 
fumble in mid-air and ran it 
down to the Tide 12 yard line. 
Eric Penick scampered 12 yards 
on the next play to give the Irish 
the lead once again, 21-17. 
After three Irish turnovers 
within 90 seconds, Alabama fi­
nally capitalized, thanks to a 
little trickery. Crimson Tide 
backup quarterback Richard 
Todd handed the ball off to 
Mike Stock. Stock then threw 
the ball to an open Todd, who 
raced down the sidelines for a 
25 yard score. 
The Tide went for two, but 
failed, leaving a thin two point 
lead, 23-21. 
Clements then led the Irish on 
what proved to be the game 
winning drive. Notre Dame 
made it to the Alabama three, 
but were forced to settle for a 
field goal and a slim one point 
lead, 24-23. 
With three minutes to go, the 
Tide was forced to punt. 'Barna 
punter Greg Gannt boomed his 
kick 69 yards. Gannt was 
roughed during the punt, but 
Bear Bryant decided to decline 
the penalty instead of going on 
fourth and five. 
Clements came through in the clutch, however, delivering a pass to tight end Robin Weber to secure the Irish victory, and a national championship . 
In the '81 Sugar Bowl, Notre Dame faced a number one ranked Georgia team that fea­tured star running back Her­schel Walker. The Irish came in 9-1-1, and ranked seventh. 
Notre Dame jumped out to an early 3-0 lead, thanks to a 50­yard field goal by Harry Oliver. The Bulldogs evened the score on a Rex Robinson 46-yard field goal. 
No one could have expected the disaster that struck on the next play, however. Irish return men Jim Stone and Ty Barber went deep for the kickoff, and Stone called for Barber to take it. 
Yet Barber did not hear Stone, and the ball bounced free. Georgia's Bob Kelly pounced on the ball at the one yard line. Walker and the Dog offense took over from there, putting the Bulldogs up for good. 
see SUGAR I page 7 

----~--------------~-------------------------------------------------------~---------------------­

DECEMBER 27--JANUARY 1 

gameweek calenda Dec er 27 
Hospitality Center, Sponsored by the Alumni Association, Hilton Hotel Riverside, 10 a.m.-10 p.m. 
Dec er 28 

Hospitality Center, Sponsored by the Alumni Association Hilton Hotel Riverside, 10 a.m.-1 0 p.m. 
er 29 

Hospitality Center, Sponsored by the Alumni Association Hilton Hotel Riverside, 10 a.m.-10 p.m. 
Jazz Mass, Hilton, 11 a.m. 
Brunch, Hilton, noon. 
Dece er30 

Mass, Hilton, 9 a.m. Hospitality Center, Sponsored by the Alumni Association, Hilton Hotel Riverside, 10 a.m.-1 0 p.m. 
Dec er 31 

Hospitality Center, Sponsored by the Alumni Association, Hilton Hotel Riverside, 10 a.m.--6 p.m. New Year's Eve vigil mass, New Orleans Convention Center, 5 p.m. New Year's Eve Creole dinner, New Orleans Convention Center, 6:30 p.m. Pep Rally & New Year's Eve party, Convention Center, 7:45 p.m. 

yl 
Hospitality Center, Sponsored by the Alumni Association . Hilton Hotel Riverside, 10 a.m.-1 0 p.m. 
Mass, Hilton, noon. Pre-game tailgate, Hyatt Superdome, 4:30p.m. 
USF&G Sugar Bowl, New Orleans Superdome, 7:30 p.m. 
VIctory party, Hilton, postgame. 



By JOHN O'BRIEN Accent Editor 

A 
collective cheer erupted when Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students found out that the Irish were going to the Sugar Bowl. Even though our team won't be playing 
for the national championship this year, 
fans travelling to the game still have one 
reason to get excited: New Orleans. 
Mter spending the last two New Year's 
Days in the sun and sand of Miami, bowl · 
travelers will finally have the chance to 
cruise the ultimate party city. New 
Orleans offers an exciting mixture of 
Spanish, French and American culture, a 
bayou atmosphere and, best of all, Cre­
ole cooking. 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association, 
the Notre Dame Clubs of New Orleans and Southern Louisiana and Anthony Travel have planned numerous events to keep travelers busy while they're in New Orleans. 
Starting on Friday, Dec. 27, a hospitality center and " Notre Dame Bookstore-South" will be open daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. in the Hilton Riverside and Towers Hotel, 1 Poydras St. Most Domers will be staying at the Hilton or at the Inter-Continental. just blocks away at 444 St. Charles Ave. 
Unlike the Orange Bowl, most of the activity will be confined to a several­block area. Both hotels are just blocks away from the two places travelers will want to see: the Superdome, where the big game itself will be played on Jan. 1, and the famed French Quarter, home of 
II II 

' 

-

Mardi Gras and Bourbon Street. 
The French Quarter is world famous for its architecture, but most travelers will be more interested in the shopping, dining and nightlife the area offers. 
Some of the city's finest antique shops are located on Royal Street, but the entire Quarter offers everything a shopper could want. 
Odds are most students will instead be heading for Bourbon Street, which features all-night jazz clubs, burlesque revues, night club shows and music. Travelers (young and old) looking for a place to dance and party until the wee hours will want to explore this area. 
And when it comes to food, the French Quarter is world famous. Salty oysters on the half shell, charcoal grilled Redfish, 
page· 5 


' •

• 


go during ugar Bowl week 
1 Street. 
is world famous tt most travelers 
in the shopping, area offers. ~st antique shops 
Street, but the s everything a 
ts will instead be t Street, which clubs, burlesque ows and music. 1ld) looking for a ~ty until the wee re this area. 
food, the French ;. Salty oysters on l grilled Redfish, crusty French bread and Cafe au lait with beignets are just a few of the areas tasty offerings. The restaurants run the gamut from economical to elegant, so bring plenty of cash. 
The Alumni Association has plenty of activities for those travelers who will want to stick close to their base of opera­tions. 
On Sunday, Dec. 29, a Jazz Mass (11 a.m.) and a brunch (noon) will be offered in the Hilton. The brunch costs $25 per person. 
A 9 a.m. mass at the Hilton is the only activity scheduled for Monday, but Tuesday should keep everyone busy with New Year's Eve activities. 
The activities start at 5 p.m. with a New Year's Eve vigil mass in the Hilton. A pep-rally, featuring the Band of the Fighting Irish and the cheerleaders will be held in the New Orleans Convention Center, across the street from the Hilton, from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. Tickets are $5 per person, or $10 per family. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students get in free with a student I.D. 

Immediately after the pep rally is a New Year's Eve party in the Convention Center featuring Hockin' Dopsie and the Zydeco Twisters. The party lasts until 1 a.m. 
A noon mass in the Hilton kicks off game day. A pre-game tailgate party, held at the Hyatt Superdome, goes from 
4:30 to 6:30p.m. Cost is $20 per person. 
The big game itself starts at 7:30 p.m. and, after the Irish turn the Gators into luggage, a post-game party will be held back at the Hilton . 


• 

U. of Florida: An insiderS look 
G 
By MATT ADAMS commitment to learning. It is a Independent Florida Alligator very difficult university-it is hard to enter and even harder ainesville? Well it's to stay in. Several of its just a college town. colleges-journalism. building There are bars and construction, medicine and 
businesses and others-are highly regarded 
campus police willing to prove around the country. It gets very 
their testosterone levels. There tough here sometimes, often 
are Greeks and independents people walk around under so 
who battle for their little much stress that when the 
political boundaries. release comes, they need to 
There are huge apartment explode. complexes and local slumlords, They often do. They call it fashion plates and those with football. 
stringy dyed-black hair who When football season begins, claim the absolute virtue of the city drapes itself in the progressive music. There are orange and blue rapture that is students and faculty and staff. Southeastern Conference There are juniors who think football. They take it as 
they know it all and seniors seriously. I guess, as anywhere petrified of how little they in the country. understand. During the third quarter, win, Like I said, it's just a college lose or tie, the crowd breaks town. into its hymn-"We are the On campus, people wear Boys of old Florida." The crowd 
shorts through the entire fall sways in contradictory 
semester. The climate, so movements and its devotion to 
cursed in September when UF is reaffirmed. 
humidity makes walking feel 
like wading, now is a comfort. But football is not the only 
The evenings are chilly, the religion in Gainesville. Nature 
days comfortable. It will get has disciples as well. 
Florida-cold soon, but nothing There is a dock on the 
like the rigors of the northeast. outskirts of town that cuts into 
Being a college town, a lake called Wauburg. During Gainesville has its share of the week, it is alone, as museums. There is the students and the population recently-opened Barn, which deal with the matters of school features major touring shows. and the business of being alive. 
There is also the University They leave it for the eagles, 
Gallery, which shows alligators and snakes the make 
abstraction that journalists the wilderness their home. 
often cannot understand. The On Saturday though, it fills 
art majors do, however, and with students in bathing suits · they know more about that stuff simultaneously working on their studies and their suntans.
than me. There are often concerts with It, too, is a part of Gainesville's 
local bands and sometimes big identity. 
names like Gainesville-native But its soul is The Wall. Tom Petty. And sometimes, Although it fringes the campus when the weather is just right, of the University of Florida, it is they show movies on the lawn about a mile from the heart of 
of the student union. campus. It snuggles against one 
It's a nice touch for a college of Gainesville's busiest streets town. and faces several apartment 
Like most college towns, complexes. Gainesville has a stupid name, Although it was once white, it no good seafood restaurants has been covered with and is, at its heart, a small generations of spray paint, 
rural village. spelling out blue or mauve or 
But it's dominated by the lavender testimonials of love University. Little goes on in ("My Life did not begin until Gainesville that isn't at least you"), devotion ("Class of '91 tangentially connected with the forever"), and the pleasures of 
31,000 students at the turning 21. The messages University of Florida. rarely stay long, they are 
It's an oasis of learning amid quickly replaced by new ·­the rural roads of North testimonies or social statements Florida-surrounded by towns ("Pikes, Sigma Chis, Dee Gees, with names like Micanopy, Tri Delts, etc. RULE!") and new Waldo and Starke. Like most messages to the population. It such combinations, it constantly changes, just like the sometimes is an uneasy mix. always flowing university. 
But for the most part, It reflects the attitude, if not 
Gainesville and UF peacefully the psyche of the city. ... co-exist. There are some And in its center, with four conflicts, and you can see the hand painted roses surrounding 
strange mix of envy and them, are the crudely painted contempt as Gaiaesville names of the five college residents not attached to UF students slain in August 1990. pass those who are. Like most towns of substance. UF? Well, that can be a little Gainesville does not forget its 
different. Somehow the school past. manages to blend a raucous Maybe it's not just a college attitude with a serious town after all. 
--------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 Irish Football '91 Friday, December 13, 1991 
Wrestle 
continued from page 2 
proving his tremendous versatility. 
Bettis, meanwhile, has emerged as a legitimate All­America candidate, having rushed for 972 yards-the most by an Irish back since Allen Pinkett's 1,100 yards in 1985. 
Bettis also broke Pinkett's single season scoring record with 20 rushing touchdowns, eclipsing the old mark of 18. Should Bettis be keyed on by the Gator defensive unit, Mirer can hand the ball off to a bevy of other talented backs, includ­ing tailbacks Tony Brooks (894 yds, five TO's), Rodney Culver (550 yards), and Reggie Brooks (122 yards, 6.8 average). 
Should the -Irish decide to go to the air, Mirer will be lofting the ball to one of the deepest receiving corps in the country. 
Split end Tony Smith led the team in the 1991 season with 42 receptions for 789 yards and four touchdowns. Flanker Lake Dawson (24 catches), tight end Derek Brown (22 grabs) and Bettis (17 catches) out of the backfield provide numerous targets for Mirer to look for. 
However, what the Irish of­fense will be facing in the Ga­tors is one of the best defenses in the country. 
Florida yields only 13.8 points a game, and has one of the best run defenses around, granting only slightly over 100 yards a game. 
It will be a formidable task for the Irish offensive line-led by guards Mirko Jurkovic and Tim Ruddy, and tackle Lindsey Knapp-to control the line of scrimmage and give the Irish backs any holes to run through. 
The Gators defense is led by linebackers Carlton Miles-who leads the team with 102 tack­les-and Tim Paulk (98 tackles), who was a semifinalist for this year's Butkus Award, which is awarded to the nation's top linebacker. 
Tackle Brad Culpepper has anchored the defensive line with 82 tackles and has recorded seven sacks, while tackle Tony McCoy leads the defense with seven-and-a-half sacks. Between the two of them, they have sacked the quarterback more times (14.5 total sacks} than the entire Irish defense. 
Yet should Notre Dame go to the air, they will be facing a Gator secondary that has picked opposing quarterbacks off 14 times-twice for scores-with Will White and Lawrence Hatch leading the squad with four each. 
The Gators have only given up nine touchdowns through the air all season. 
On the other side of the line, Florida's offense is extremely potent, having scored an aver­age of 32.8 points per contest under the leadership of quar­terback Shane Matthews. 
Matthews underwent arthro­scopic knee surgery after the regular season, but is expected to play in the bowl game. 
A junior, Matthews estab­lished nine school records last season as a sophomore, and as an encore this season, has set the SEC single-season record for touchdowns, with 28 passing and one rushing score. 
Matthews is the spark which ignites a powerful passing at­tack that averages over 300 yards a game. The Gator quar­terback has thrown for over 3,000 yards while completing 60 percent of his passes. 
His receiving corps, mean­while, is a stable and talented group with the speed of after­burners. 
Led by Willie Jackson (51 catches, 725 yards, 10 touch­downs). the Gators boast four receiver with at least 2 5 catches, and they have been on the receiving end of four touch­down bombs of at least fifty yards. 
A drawback to Florida's big play offense has been a high number of turnovers, with the Gators giving the ball away 27 times this year-eight times on fumbles and 19 times by inter­ception. By comparison, the Irish have coughed the ball up only 21 times. 
The Irish secondary can ex­pect to be tested often, but they have performed well this sea­son, picking off opposing quar­terbacks 15 times-led by Tom Carter's five snags-and have run two interceptions back for scores (one by Demetrius Du­Bose and one by Tom Carter). 
The Irish give up more yards on the ground than through the air (204.8 yards per game compared to 177.5 yards per game), so the Gators may de­cide to attack the Irish defense on the ground. 
Sophomore Errict Rhett is one of the best running backs in the SEC, having rushed for 1,109 yards· this season (good for a five-yard average) and has 

chipped in with 1o rushing
touchdowns. 

Seniors Willie McClendon (213 yards) and Dexter McNabb (257 yards) provide depth to the Gator rushing attack. 
For the Irish defense, linebacker Demetrius DuBose has been the standout player all season, leading the team with 127 tackles. He has been so dominant that the second-lead­ing tacklers-cornerback Rod Smith and linebacker Pete Ber­eich-are far behind with 69 apiece. 
On special teams, Gator kicker Arden Czyzewski has hit 11 of 18 field goals and is per­fect on 44 PAT's. Punter Shane Edge, meanwhile, has kicked for a 43.8-yard average. Return specialist Larry Kennedy has averaged 6.9 yards per punt re­turn and has also returned kickoffs at 27.6-yards-per-re­turn clip. 
The Irish return game was boosted by Clint Johnson's 93 yard kickoff return against Hawaii, but has struggled to find consistency throughout the 1991 season. 
On punts, Jeff Burris is having a strong season with a 12.6 yard return average. Craig Hentrich, the Irish kicker, is re­covering from knee injury suf­fered against Tennessee, and is listed as day-to-day. 
With Hentrich in action, the Irish kicking game ranks as one of the best in the country, with Hentrich hitting punts for a 42.9 yard average. The junior from Godfrey, Ill.. has also made 48 of 48 PAT's and five of eight field goals. 
Baker 
continued from page 8 
They also helped him attain a certain ring during his fresh­man year. 
"My freshman year was the most exciting of the four be­cause we won the National Championship," said Baker. "But winning the Scholarship Award ranks right behind that because it was so unexpected." 
In Baker's senior year at Moon Area High School in Co­rapolis, Pa., he, by word of players on the team, thought he would get the team's academic award. 
"All the players thought I would win it," said Baker. "As soon as they mentioned the award, everyone started con­gratulating me. And then they gave it to a guy who I thought really deserved it." 
Baker's road to Notre Dame crossed many ivy paths. Although several Ivy League schools recruited Baker to play football, he narrowed his deci­sion to Notre Dame and Brown. 
But because Brown, in com­pliance with all Ivy League schools, does not offer athletic scholarships, Baker opted for Notre Dame. 
He had not been recruited by the Irish, but Baker thought he might have a chance of getting 
-
a football scholarship with a strong showing in his first few years. 
"I got here for summer camp before freshman year and thought I might have a shot at getting a scholarship," said Baker, who played on Moon's basketball team with Tower. 
"But with the talent that they recruit, it's hard to make any waves that could lead to a scholarship." 
Baker, along with fellow four­year senior walk-ons Chet Hollister, Trevor Moriarty and Karl Hickey, outlasted 13 walk­ons that began with the team in August of 1988. 
The pit bulls, in which walk­ons field an entire offense or defense on special teams preparation, highlight a career that rarely allows them to see action in games. One of Baker's greatest moments was blocking a field goal kick in practice. This season, Baker played in the Indiana and Michigan State games. 
He also brought his talents to Bookstore Basketball, playing with three scout team stars on a team named "Five Guys Who Lou Holtz Doesn't Know." 
Although plans are tentative, Baker's future may include at­tending law school while work­ing after he graduates in May. 
Mter Baker's contributions to the Irish, Holtz definitely knows him. 

s~~~ 
Enjoy Sugar Bowl Southern style! 100 yr. old Garden District home (gently modernized) has apartment available. 
By bus/trolley lines. 33 bloks to Fr. Q; 45 blks to Dome; 12 bloks to infamous Tipitina's. 
2 BR $450; 3BR $550 (5 nites) 7-lOpm call (540) 899-2220. 
Christmas 
at the 
Notre Dame Golf Shop 
Located "On the Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 


Since 1979 LeBon Temps Roule has let the good times roll. We're still rolling along ... as one of uptown's most comfonable places to gather. 
Everyday is a special day at LeBon Temps Roule. We offer great drink specials every day of the week, a vast selection of imponed beer, delicious burgers, outstanding chili, po-boys & bar snacks. 
Now for a little lagniappe: Fri. (7 -10) oysters on the half shell are free. 
So if you're looking to let the good times roll in the greatest city in the USA, and want to see for yourself what makes a great New Orleans neighborhood bar, stop on by and let the good times roll. 
\&~1i..,sROf1Lt"' 
0;: ~.,_ ~ 
_,601 MA~t 
•••895-8117••• 


_Irish Football '91 
Friday, December 13, 1991 page 7 


.. Minimum 3 night suy. Menrion this ~d to receive the s~i~l r~tes. ($20 extr~ pt'r person) 
•New Orleans 
~ ClarionHatel ~ 
W New Orleans ­
·-----Call today for reservations -----· 
1-800-824-JJS 9 

1500 Canal Street • New Orleans, LA 70112 • 504-522-4500 
Floridians 
continued from page 1 
has former teammates playing for the Gators. Florida backup kickoff specialist Ryan Ruland attended Lake Brantley High School with Johnson. Johnson played option quarterback in high school, but will be return­ing kickoffs for the Irish on New Year's Day. 
If something should happen to Gator placekicker Arden Czyzewski, Ruland could very well kick off to Johnson. 
"That would be weird, kicking off to him (Johnson)," said Ru­land. "Especially after he just ran one back (93-yards for a touchdown against Hawaii)." 
Johnson expressed similar sentiments. 
"It would be strange receiving kicks from Ruland and playing against him," said Johnson, "after knowing him and playing with him in high school." 
Tom Carter, meanwhile, re­cently spoke to high school teammate Norm Bolduc, a wide receiver for the Gators. 
"There was the usual brag­ging back and forth. It was 
Questions 
continued from page 8 
Maybe like Raghib Ismail, he feels a need to help out his family as soon as he's able. Or maybe, just maybe, he's sick of school. Hey, let's face it, that happens. 
But whatever the case, the only course of action that is right is the one that makes Rick happy. He's on the verge of making a tough choice, one that will impact the rest of his life. While I'd like to see him stay, for selfish reasons-like to improve the Irish next year-it's his decision. 
Good luck, Rick. 
The other problem is an ex­tremely intriguing one that has been taking root ever since last year. 
When Gary Darnell left Florida to become the defensive coordinator here at Notre 
Dame, great things were ex­pected of the Irish defense, and fun," he said. "It's a big thing, seeing players that you played with in high school and that are from your city. 
"Last year against Miami was the same type of thing. It was the most exciting game of the year for me." 
Graduate assistant David Arnsparger has particularly in­triguing connections to Florida. Arnsparger's father, Bill Arnsparger, is the athletic di­rector at the University of Florida, and the younger Arnsparger spent two years as a graduate assistant in Gainesville. 
"The thing I was most re­sponsible for when I was there was the scout team offense," said Arnsparger. "I worked with (quarterback) Shane Matthews and Tre Everett, a wide receiver. From my time there, I have seen the team's personnel and how the players play and react." 
Despite his connections to the Gators, however, Arnsparger prefers to view the Sugar Bowl as just another tough date on the Irish schedule. 
"Playing Florida is like any 
not without good reason. 
Darnell's two teams at Florida were both ranked third in the nation in defense. The '89 team allowed only 241.9 total yards per game (88.6 rushing, 153.3 passing), while the '88 team allowed just 247.8 yards per game. 
Now the rumors are flying. In the December 2 issue of the Chicago Tribune, Joseph Tybor wrote that Holtz had personally taken over the defense and that he wasn't discouraging Darnell from looking elsewhere for a job. 
In his two years at Notre Dame, Darnell hasn't really had a chance to establish himself or his defense. Instead, he and the Irish have been busy patching holes. 
Last year, the secondary was young and inexperienced. A vet­eran-line and linebacking corps held the defense together until the backs jelled. Over the last few weeks of the season, the defense came together, holding USC to six points and AP na­tional champion Colorado to 10. 
This season, the chore was 
The YMCA welcomes, in· New Orleans The Fighting Irish in the Louisiana Superdome January 1st. 
While in New Orleans, stay at the YMCA International Hotel located on the streetcar line. 
Our singles start at only $29.00 The hotel is located on the famous Lee Circle, 
I 

a 10 minute walk to the French Quarter, riverfront, Aquarium of the Americas, Central Business District, and Superdome. 
YMCA hotel guests also enjoy access to the Lee Circle YMCA facilities next door. 
We hope you enjoy your stay in New Orleans. 
-

other game," he said. "What 
makes it a special game is that 
it's a bowl game, and another 
opportunity to play a quality 
opponent." 
The Gators' lineup, mean­while, is chock full of in-state talent. Though the school re­cruits nationally, the team is largely composed of Floridians. 
Some say the sandy soil of Florida makes their youngsters' legs stronger. Others point to the temperate weather, which begins in early February, allowing extra practice for high-school teams. But what­ever the causes, Florida has re­cently produced blue-chip play­ers at a rate higher than any other state. 
Carter offers a simple expla­nation of the reasons for Floridians' successes in foot­ball. 
"We play football all year 'round," said Carter. "If you don't play football, people ask what's wrong with you. Every­one is always outside playing . " 
As long as this tradition con­tinues, the entire nation should stand to benefit from Floridian 
replacing the defensive line. Just when the defense was starting to believe in itself, it had to cope with the loss of Byrant Young and Eric Jones to the cut blocks of Air Force. 
Against teams like Tennessee and Penn State, it showed. But those injuries weren't Darnell's fault. 
Only people on the team or inside the football offices know what kind of politics go on in there, and that may have a large impact on why Darnell is now a persona non grata at Notre Dame. But from this per­spective, Darnell hasn't truly had a chance to prove himself. 
Hopefully, these questions won't impact the performance of the team in the Sugar Bowl. Clearly, they will need every op­portunity to focus on a very good Florida team. 
But next year will be here sooner than we all think, with a · chance to wipe the slate clean and start anew. Here's to hop­ing that next year will be less. eventful than this season. 
Sugar 
continued from page 3 
Notre Dame shot themselves in the foot again in the second quarter.Fullback John Sweeney fumbled on his only carry of the game, and Georgia again came up with ball in great field posi­tion. Walker carried it in again for the Dogs, boosting their lead to 17-3. 
The Bulldogs hung on to the lead in the second half, turning back the Irish on several occa­sions. The undersized Georgia team wore down over the course of the game, but the luckless Irish could not capital­ize when they had pulled to within scoring distance. 
..

Notre Dame quarterback Blair Kiel, now playing for the Green Bay Packers of the Na­tional Football League, did manage to drive the Irish into the endzone once in the second half, but it was not enough. 
The Dogs took the game, 17­10, and took the national title as well. 
r.~--~------------­
1 
l 
page 8 
l l \ 
1 ; 
i } I 
) 
\ 
) 
.,l 
Looking for daylight 

Irish Football '91 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey 
Sophomore flanker Lake Dawson, pictured here against Hawaii, heads upfield with one of his season's 24 catches. Dawson will be a key target for Irish quarterback Rick Mirer in the Sugar Bowl showdown with 
Florida. 

Four-year success story: Baker thrives as walk-on 
I By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
l 
! Spending time in the shadows of a collegiate football program that is constantly in the limelight has its advantages. 
For Jeff Baker, four years of 

enduring his status as a Notre Dame football .walk-on 
! 
recently paid off. 
Uterally. 

At the Notre Dame football banquet, Baker was named the recipient of the Hesburgh/Joyce Hall of Fame Scholarship Award. 
The award, presented annu­ally by the National Football Foundation, rewards a $5000 scholarship to a player who shows excellence both in the classroom and on the field. 
l 
The field that Baker per­formed on, however, was not inside Notre Dame Stadium. 
Most of Baker's playing time 
I ( 
came on the practice fields. 
The 13 walk-ons on this sea­son's squad prepared Notre Dame's first team offense and defense for the upcoming op­ponent.
1 
I As scout team members, 
I walk-ons mimic the opposing 
~ team's offense and defense. Baker, a split-end, watched the first game (Michigan's Mike Gillette missed a field goal in final seconds for an Irish win) of his freshman year from the stands, but has dressed for ev­ery home game since then. 
Regardless of what position they play in practice as the "opponent," the walk-ons are caught unaware if they make it 
j
I i 
I i 
into the game because they are unfamiliar with Notre Dame's plays. 
"It's kind of a weird situation," said Baker. "We play our best in practice to try to improve the team, but then if we make it into the game we really don't know our own plays too well." 
Worse things have happened. 

"The walk-ons used to dress in the ACC and walk over to the stadium," said Baker. "It was kind of humiliating listening to what people would say about us as we walked over. Then we approached coach Holtz about the situation and since a few games ago we've been dressing with the team." 
Baker said Holtz wasn't aware of the situation. 
"He really didn't know that we weren't dressing at the sta­dium," said Baker. "He didn't see a reason why we shouldn't be dressing with the team since we're as much a part of the team as anyone." 
While the obscurity of walk­ons lessens only when friends or roommates cheer for Holtz to put in their favorite non­scholarship player, Baker ad­mits that the scholarship play­ers are the most supportive players on the team. 
"They understand our situa­tion as walk-ons," said Baker, who sports a 3.42 GPA as a chemical engineering major. "We're out there for the fun of it and they're playing on schol­arships and wondering why we do it. They really sympathize with us." 
see BAKER/page 6 
Ready for action 
Friday, December 13, 1991 

Questions remain for bowl-bound Irish 
While Notre Dame gets ready to head to New Orleans to play in the USF&G Sugar Bowl, several questions remain for the Irish. · 
Unfortunately, not all of those questions are of the on-the-field variety. 
One of the biggest concerns the Irish face is the status of junior quarterback Rick Mirer. Various Rich Kurz media reports, including the ever-so Associate Sports Editor reliable NFL Today, who last year practically guaranteed that Lou Holtz would leave for the Minnesota Vikings, have reported that Mirer is going to leave for the big money and bright lights of the NFL. 
Campus rumors about Mirer are no less frequent. 
Probably no one but Rick Mirer knows what Rick Mirer will do after this season ends, and no one but Mirer can or should make that decision for him. With that in mind, there are a few issues that need to be addressed. 
In the past few years, a number of signal-callers have left school early for the NFL. 
Anybody remember Andre Ware or Todd Marinovich? 
Both of these guys are buried on their team's respective depth charts. Ware has such talents as Erik Kramer starting ahead of him, while Marinovich hasn't seen a snap except from the sidelines. 
Mirer's talents aren't in question. Anyone who saw him launch bullets 50 yards across his body and touch passes down the sidelines realizes that he has a pro-caliber arm. 
Neither are his leadership qualities to be doubted. Remember the comeback drives he orchestrated against Michigan and USC last year? 
But quarterbacks aren't like running backs or wide receivers, who rely primarily on instinct to do their job. Give a running back a hole to run through, and natural talent takes over from there. 
Quarterbacks have to read defenses at the line of scrimmage and audible. On pass plays, they need to recognize complex systems and keep track of several receivers at the same time. That takes a lot of time and a lot of practice. 
Staying in school next year as the starting quarterback and taking almost all of the snaps in practice, not to mention playing against some of the top teams in the country, will give him more of a chance to learn than as the second-string quarterback for a pro team. 
With an increase in experience and an opportunity to pad his stats, Mirer would certainly earn more money right away than he would by leaving this year. 
Other considerations exist, of course. 
see QUESTIONS/page 7 
The Observer/Sean Faman 

Demetrius DuBose (31) and the notre Dame defense prepare for another charge by the Pitt offense. The task facing DuBose in the Sugar Bowl: Stop Florida. 




