

~!J~JA~t

-Q·&·
1142· 199Z 

. 1!1--­
Sl SQUICE NTI NNIA~ 

server 
Satnt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 24 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



SMC fall festival is discussed by SAB 
By Kelly Jennings Cross Sisters to be part of Notre News Writer Dame's Sesquicentennial celebration. 
The traditional Fall Fest Work has also started on celebration, and a possible ren­turning the clubhouse into a ovation of the current Saint coffee shop, where students Mary's clubhouse, were among could gather either during spe­the topics addressed at cial events or for studying. Ac­Wednesday night's Saint Mary's cording to Meg McGowan, Vice Student Activities Board meet­President of Student Affairs, the ing. new coffee house could open by 
The week-long Fall Fest will late October or early November. be held from October 28 -The idea is to initially have the November 1, coinciding with new coffee house open perhaps both Halloween and the Notre two nights a week, with later Dame llomecoming festivities. expansion possible. Some events scheduled for the Other upcoming events on week include an International campus include Club Tuesday ·, ~ 
~}~{~': '"'' 
day, a costume contest, give­on October 1, featuring hypno­
The ObseMif/Sean Farnan
aways, a story teller, pumpkin tist Jon Lautrec; and a month 
Grit and Determination 
carving, an evening of music, long clothing drive to benefit hayrides, and a bonfire; and a the local YWCA women's shel­Sophomore Mike Sullivan tries to break through a fellow Morrissey player as they played section football float sponsored by the Holy ter, beginning October 7. yesterday despite the chill weather and threatening clouds yesterday. 


Dr. Seuss, rhyme master, dies Jack Mann, oldest 
SAN DIEGO -Theodor Seuss by an array of medical gadgetry on hold, and he went to work Geisel, the master of rhyme and capped by a mechanized pill writing two-line gags for Judge 
hostage in Lebanon,doodle who as Dr. Seuss wrote drill and a patient assembly and Life, both humor such whimsical children's clas­line. magazines at the time. sics as "The Cat in the Hat" and Geisel spoke for many a frus­It was on a spoof of scientific 


arrives at his home
"!low the Grinch Stole trated patient when he wrote: developments that he first used Christmas," has died. He was "When at last we are sure the name that would become LYNEHAM, England -Jack his ordeal. CNN showed a tape87. you've been p_roperly pilled, his trademark. He added "Dr." 
Mann, the 77-year-old Briton of their reunion made by Bri­Geisel died Tuesday night at then a few paper forms must be to his middle name to sound who had been the oldest West­tain's ITN television news,his home in La Jolla, and his properly filled so that you and more scientific. 
ern hostage in Lebanon, came which reported that Mrs. Mannfamily was at his bedside, said your heirs may be properly "I wrote my first children's home to England today after 2 said her husband told her hehis 33-year-old stepdaughter, billed." book because my exclusive con­1/2 harrowing years of captivity never saw another humanLea Dimond. He had been ill for In his 1984 best-seller, "The tract forbade me from doing during which he reportedly was being apart from his captorsseveral months, she said. Butter Battle Book," Geisel of­virtually anything else in the tortured by his kidnappers and and did not know which factionlie wrote and illustrated 47 fered a parable for the atomic world," he said. That book was saw no one but them. was holding him. He also saidbooks, selling more than 100 age. It chronicled the escalating ~ ... And to Think That I Saw It In New York, U.N. Secretary­he was tortured and hismillion copies in 18 languages. arms race between the Yooks, on Mulberry Street," penned on General Javier Perez de Cuellar, medication was withheld, shelie was awarded a 1984 who eat their bread butter side a ship crossing the Atlantic. He who bas been working to ar­was quoted as saying, but shePulitzer Prize for his contribu­down, and the Zooks, who do said that the words, strung to­range a comprehensive deal to gave no details.
tion to children's literature. just the opposite. gether in the sing-song style 
free the hostages, expressed Despite the reports of
~If you asked people today to It ends with the two sides at that became his trademark, hope today that another West­mistreatment, the chief medical name one children's author, I'd the Yook-Zook borde~ each were written to the rhythm of ern captive could be freed be­officer aboard the flight,venture it would probably be armed with the ultimate the ship's engine. 
fore the end of the week. Squadron Leader Garth Man­Dr. Seuss," said Julie Cummins, weapon -a Big-Boy Boomeroo "Mulberry Street" was pub­But a potential snag to any ning, said Mann was inthe New York Public Library's bomb. lished in 1937, the same year as overall deal emerged today "remarkably good shape whencoordinator of children's ser­A boy asks his grandpa, his first adult novel, ~The Seven when Israel accused Iran of you consider he has been in avices. "Who's going to drop it. Will Lady Godivas." The children's breaking a promise to provide cell for 2 1/2 years." 
you? Will he?" book, rejected by 27 publishers information on an Israeli sol­"He is a very reslllant manIlls works seemed like jour­"Be patient," grandpa says. before being accepted by Van­
dier missing in Lebanon -a who obviously has great
neys Into nonsense, magical ~we'll see. We will see." guard Press, became a spectac­condition that is part of a broad strength of spirit and is quiteworlds of truffula trees, green Geisel was childless himself­ular success. His novel was a deal to free Western hostages. remarkably well," Manningeggs and ham, ziffs and zuffs after his first wife's death in commercial dud. 
The military VC-10 carrying said. The crew toasted theand nerkles and nerds, where 1967, he married Audrey Stone Mann and his wife from Cyprus Manns with champagne during top-hatted cats run rampant Diamond, a mother of two -He wrote three more chil­touched down at 1:10 p.m. their flight, he said. 
through youngsters' homes but had an unrivaled gift for dren's books and switched to (8:10a.m. EDT) at the Lynehamwhile goldfish scold. delighting children. Random House publishers be­air base 80 miles west of Late Tuesday, at a news con­But they often Included subtle "You make'em, I amuse 'em," fore World War II. 
London. The Royal Air Force ference at the Syrian Foreignmessages on Issues important he said. On his 80th birthday, the pub­saluted Mann, a World War II Ministry, Mann angrily de­to him, from Internationalism to lishing company held a party at pilot, and a Spitfire fighter like nounced his captors. 
environmentalism. Born March 2, 1904, in the New York Public Library, the ones he flew against Nazi ~My voice has gone after 2 1/2 When asked two weeks ago Springfield, Mass., son of a Cummins said. 
Germany made a victory roll years of chaining, of saying: 'Dowhether he had any final mes­brewer who ran a zoo for a "He seemed very alert and overhead. this, do that. Don't do that!' orsage, a valedictory Geisel told time during Prohibition, Geisel spry for his age," she said. "He Mann was freed by the pro­'Be quieti' " he whispered,the San Diego Tribune: graduated in 1925 from Dart­had a little twinkle in those eyes Iranian Revolutionary Justice banging his hand on a table to~whenever things go a bit sour mouth, where he drew cartoons and you knew it was the genius Organization on Tuesday, and illustrate the orders from his·In a job I'm doing, I always tell for the humor magazine, Jack-where all those whimsical reunited in Damascus, Syria kidnappers.
myself: 'You can do better than 0-Lantern. characters came from." 
with his wife, Sunnie. Perez de Cuellar, speaking tothis.' The best slogan I can During a year studying litera­Children liked his writing be­Mann smiled as he emerged reporters outside the Unitedthink of to leave with the U.S.A. ture at Oxford University in cause he treated them as from the plane, and a nurse Nations, said efforts to arrangewould be: 'We can do and we've England, he met another Amer­equals, Geisel often said. His il­helped him down the steps. But a swap continued. 
got to do better than this.' " ican literature student, Helen lustrations were another mat­after a night's rest, turned out ··we will continue our el'­In his 1986 book, "You're Palmer, who encouraged ter. His creatures often looked in a sports jacket and ascot, he fort ... and I hope that perhapsOnly Old Once," Geisel came to Geisel's artistic career. like stuffed animals missing appeared more energetic than one (hostage) will be releasedgrips with his own mortality. He After dropping out of Oxford, much of their sawdust. 
he had in his first hours of before the end of the week," hesubtitled the work ~A Book for Geisel drifted to Paris, where be "''ve taken the mistakes and freedom. said. ~That is my hope." 
Obsolete Children,.. and de­mingled with Lost Generation refined them a little bit," Geisel He said nothing to the crowd Pro-Iranian Muslim kidnap­scribed it as a book for adults in writers such as Ernest Hem­said in a 1986 interview with of well-wishers, but shook pers holding Westerners in Le­a children's format. ingway, James Joyce and The San Diego Union. "It's all hands cordially with the base banon are demanding Israel re­An Immediate best-seller, It Gertrude Stein. mistakes -controlled mis­
commander and kissed a lease Arab prisoners in ex­
took a satirical look at the He returned to the United takes." 
woman who had a bouquet for change for their captives. Shiite medical profession through the States in 1927 to marry Miss "Horton Hatches the Egg," his wife. Sunnie Mann told the Muslim cleric Hussein Musawi,eyes of an old man who has to Palmer and to pursue his hope published in 1940, reflected crowd: "It's the most wonderful who is involved ln the hostagebe poked, prodded and exam­of being a novelist. But the Geisel's impatience with pacinst day of my life." negotiations, said the kidnap­ined during a stay in the Golden Great Depression forced him to sentiment in America at a time During the stopover in pers were awaiting a reciprocalYears Clinic. He is confronted put the great American novel of international crisis. 
Cyprus, Mann told his wife of action after freeing Mann. 

page 2 Thursday, September 26, 1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 
fORECAST: 


celibate men-to help tame the desires that the devil is putting into our hands. They have made 
WORLD INDIANA
it against the rules for us to satisfy those desires. They think that will stop us. But I don't 
Gastroenteritis claims lives Ministers want death re-examined 
think they're working hard enough. 
•DHAKA, Bangladesh -Thirty-d"ne more people .INDIANAPOLIS, In -The investigation into theThe current rule simply prohibits sex. That's died of gastroenteritis in the flood-hit north, officials death of a black teenager while in police custody four not good enough. When I was in high school, we said Wednesday, bringing the total number of deaths in years ago should be re-opened, a ministers group says.
had a rule prohibiting "public displays o 
flood-stricken areas to 467. Indianapolis police officials, the Marion County coroner affection." That may seem like a weird rule, but 
The disease has spread mainly because of a shortage and the FBI concluded that Taylor shot himself while it was even stranger considering I went to an 
of lifesaving drugs and water-purifying tablets, said a handcuffed in the back of a police patrol car. Some aU-male school. 
doctor at the International Center for Diarrheal Disease unanswered questions are: Why was there was blood Nonetheless, they enforced it strictly. I once 
Research in Dhaka. Gastroenteritis is a major killer in on the ground near the police car in which Taylor was got a detention for petting a dog. One of my 
tropical Bangladesh, where most poor people drink riding?; What is the exact location of some witnesses at water from polluted rivers and ponds. A Health the time of the incident?; and why witness reports afriends even got a detention for kissing his mom Ministry official said the 31 deaths occurred Tuesday, policeman appear to be wrestling with Taylor and thatgoodbye, although that was also covered by the and that more than 27,000 people have been affected Taylor was removed from the patrol car before rescueschool's so-caUed "Oedipus rule." 
by the disease since Sept. 1. personnel arrived. Concerned Clergy will assemble theThere's also schools like Brigham Young task force with its president, the Rev. C.V. Jetter, pastor University, which prohibit not only the of Shiloh Missionary Baptist Church, serving aspossession of alcohol, but also drinking it; as temporary chairperson. 
HAnOHAL
weU as drinking caffeine and smoking. We need to go even further. Ban that Yo­
Campus Greetings needs student WOrk
Ice floe carr~in~ research station 
Cream garbage, for it is the cause of many •soUTH BEND-A greeting card company is so­
•ANCHORAG ' Aaska -An ice floe carrying an
campuses problems. 
liciting artwork, photography and verse from college
abandoned Soviet research station and hundreds of 
students around the country for a new line of cardsFirst, aU of that sugar makes us hyper, which 
drums of fuel and potentially hazardous chemicals is 
designed by students for students. The company, called
causes us to lose sleep. Thus, we become 
lost somewhere north of Alaska, federal officials say.drowsy during our classes, and that offends our Campus Greetings, plans to produce cards with a
The island of ice broke loose from the Soviet coast July 
friendship or love theme that specifically reflect theincredibly interesting professors. 
24, according to the U.S. Coast Guard. On Sept. 2 it was 
words and lifestyles of college students. Prizes for the
reported in the Arctic Ocean 56 miles from Barrow, the 
Second, men and women are always arguing winners are $100 for each piece of art or photography
nation's northernmost city. Officials say the Soviets
about who eats more of the stuff, so getting rid chosen and $50 for each verse selected. Students can
have promised to remove the chemicals and the
of it would promote better relations between the get information about the program by writing Campus 
buildings from the floe once it is found, but with bad
sexes. 
Greetings, c/o McCallum Design Company, 1380 Pearl
weather making it difficult to locate by satellite or
FinaUy, no one wiU admit it-but I will: Those Road, Brunswick, OH 44212.
airplane, that could take awhile. 
cones are obviously phallic. This is another example of the sexual demon thrusting itsel forcefuUy into our lives. 
Once again, the University could penetrate the core of our sexual desires-desires that OF INTEREST permeate aU aspects of our existence, even our food. I think we could aU use a good penetration 
•Minority engineering and geological science
now and then. 
•An Introduction to Resume Expert presentation majors are invited to attend a mixer today at 5:30p.m. inI may be going out on a limb right now, but I 
will be given today from 3:30-4:30 p.m. in the Career and Room 217 Cushing. 
think the University should consider mandatory 
Placement Services Conference Room. The computerized 
castration for males and spading for females 
resume preparation system will be described and de­•American Society of Mechanical Engineers will
(I'm not sure if 'spading' is the medical term, tailed, on-screen instructions on how to use the program hold their first meeting tonight. Join them at 7 p.m. in but I think you know what I mean.) Then, once 
to prepare and enhance your resume. room 120 Cushing. Free pizza. New members welcome. and for all, all of the University's problems would be solved. 
•saint Mary's Students considering a math major •Transportation Is available to Notre Dame/Indiana Then we could all concentrate on real im­
should attend an informational meeting today at 5 p.m. in man's soccer game. The athletic department has portant things. Like footbaU. 
Haggar. arranged for a free shuttle bus to transport students to 
and from the Main Circle and School Field beginning at 7 p.m. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are 
those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MARKET UPDATE OH TtiS DAY IN HISTORY
Today's Staff 
Production Accent 
• In 1950: United Nations troops in the Korean Conflict
Kalhy Fong Jahnelle Harrigan 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 25 
recaptured the South Korean capital of Seoul from the North Fran Moyer 
Cheryl Moser Pat Moran 
Koreans. VJ.wpolnt 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
153.81 Million 212.53 + 0.37 
• In 1955: Following word that President Eisenhower had Rich Riley BusI~ 
COMPOSITE
Colette LaForce 
suffered a heart attack, the New York Stock Exchange saw its
386.88 ... 0.83
News Collen Gannon 
worst price decline since 1929.
Lauren Aquino 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS Mary Murphy Sporta 
3,021.02 ... 8.05 
• In 1960: The first of four televised debates between 
Rolando de Aguiar 
presidential candidates Richard M. Nixon and John F.
Scoraboard 
PRECIOUS METALS 
Mike Saudato 
Kennedy took place in Chicago.
GOLD+ S 0.90 to $352.80/oz. 
• In 1981: Nolan Ryan of the Houston Astros hurled his fifth lhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday 
sn..VER+ 3.3¢ to $4.217/oz. 
no-hitter, defeating the Los Angeles Dodgers 5-0. 
Observer is a member of lhe Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 



Thursday, September 26, 1991 
Mysterious cracks are found on Atlantis wings 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­Space shuttle workers removed thermal seals from Atlantis' wings for inspections Wednes­day after mysterious cracks were found in some of the pro­tective gaskets. 
NASA officials said It's too soon to say If the problem will delay a military mission by At­lantis in November. 
Technicians discovered the cracks during routine inspec­tions of Atlantis In the hangar. 
Workers pulled off three of the 44 reinforced carbon seals Tuesday to check for damage froin the ship's last flight, In August. All three had hairline cracks, said NASA spokesman Mitch Varnes. 
Five more seals were pulled off, and four of them were cracked, Varnes said. Shuttle managers decided Wednesday to remove all the seals to check for further damage. 
The seals -22 per wing ­serve as expansion joints for the reinforced carbon panels that protect the leading edge of the shuttle wings against the intense heat of atmospheric re­entry. 
"The issue is not at this point so much a safety issue," Varnes said. "The concern is how did these happen and why are we only seeing them now." 
Installation procedures were being reviewed, as well as stress placed on the seals dur­ing ground operations and during flight. 
The seals are original shuttle parts. There are not enough spares available to replace all the seals, but extras could be removed from the new shuttle Endeavour, Varnes said. 
Atlantis, NASA's youngest working shuttle, has made nine trips into space. Its planned 1Oth mission involves delivery of a missile-warning satellite. 
The shuttle Discovery, mean­while, got a little closer to home Wednesday. The modified 747 jet carrying Discovery back to Kennedy Space Center arrived at Columbus Air Force Base in Mississippi for an overnight stay. 
The jet, with Discovery bolted on top, left Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., on Tuesday and spent the night at Tinker Air Force Base in Oklahoma City. 


pacity. The decision represented a



~~~;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~current production-and ca­

l 
Great Taste Shows 
With only 15 calories per ounce, you can enjoy all the rich taste of sugar free Diet Colombo for only half the calories of regular frozen yogurt. No fat. No cholesterol. Taste it to believe it. 

YOGIS YOGURT 

I I
1 Not valid with any other promotional offer. I Limit one per customer. 
I Coupon redeemable only at: 
I We deliver Mon, Tues , Thurs I Yogis Yogurt 17911 St. Rd. 23 I (Across from old Martins)L ____2~-~3: ______________ _ 

Pangborn Social Gathering 
Students mill around Pangborn in transit between their various daily activities 
OPEC agrees to keep oil flowing 
GENEVA -OPEC agreed \V.ednesday to keep its crude taps wide open in the winter, but oil ministers hope prices will rise anyway. 
"Everybody is allowed to produce whatever they want," said Indonesian Oil Minister Gi­nandjar Kartasasmita after the cartel decided to continue the "free-for-all" policy started during the Persian Gulf crisis. 
After two days of talks, min­isters of the 13-nation Organi­zation of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to boost the output ceiling to 23.65 million barrels of crude a day in the October-December period. 
The new cap replaces the in­formal limit of 22.3 million barrels set last spring. It also is about the level of the cartel's victory for heavyweight Saudi Arabia, which fended off calls for restraint by Iran, Algeria and others to take steps push­ing up prices immediately to the cartel's target of $21 a barrel. 
The average price of a basket of crudes monitored by OPEC was $19.24 a barrel last week. It was $18.78 in the previous week. 
Even so, ministers and some analysts forecast prices would rise because of increased de­mand in the winter. They cited cold weather in North America, economic recovery in industrialized nations and declining output in the Soviet Union, the world's No. 1 producer. 
"There is a buoyant market," said Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Hisham Nazer. "We can't keep up with it." 
Oil analysts in New York have differing views on whether prices will rise or fall in coming months, however. 
Every dollar rise -or decline -in the price of a barrel of oil amounts to a 2-cent to S-cent change in gasoline prices, ex­perts say. 
Iranian Oil Minister Gholam­reza Aqazadeh said in an Inter­view that prices could hit $21 a barrel by year's end, but he said if the carter was serious about getting prices higher, It could have done more. 
A senior OPEC delegate, de­manding anonymity, said Aqazadeh and Saudi Arabia's minister, Nazer, held heated discussions about the price is­sue in the closed-door sessions. 
The delegate said Iran wanted a stronger reference in the final statement to reaching the price target as soon as pos­sible. 
........................... 
Good things don•t always come in small packages 

The Prudential 
Comptroller•s Organization 

If you •re the best looking to ioin one of the biggest and most dynamic corporations in the world ... 
Explore employment opportunities with America•s leading financial institution. 
The Comptroller•s Organization will be interviewing on campus 


November 1· 
For more information, contact your Career Placement Office. ups for open schedule October 7 ·8 



page 4 


Mother shoots her three children dead 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -A woman charged in the shooting deaths of her three children received counseling from a children's services agency earlier this year because of the problems she was having as a single parent. 
Kimberly Chandler felt the stress of trying to raise her children while working and go­ing to school to get 1be high school education that she gave up years ago. 
Chandler, 25, often told rela­tives she would kill her chil­dren, but not many believed her. 
"She said things, but I never took it to heart," said David Ferguson, 34, father of two of the children. "She took good care of the kids." 
Chandler was charged with three counts of aggravated murder in deaths of her chil­dren, Quiana Chandler, 7; Quincy Chandler 3; and Ericka Archie, 7 months. 
They were found shot in her Nelson Park apartment on the city's east side Tuesday. Ericka was slain while secured in a child's safety seat. 
Police say Chandler then went outside and shot a neighbor, 5­year-old David Warren. The boy remained in fair condition Wednesday in Children's Hospi­tal. She was charged with felo­nious assault in that shooting. 
Chandler was being held in the Franklin County jail Wednesday on $850,000 bond. 
Eric Archie, 22, father of Er­icka, said Chandler had threat­ened several times during the past two months to kill him and the children. Archie said he called Franklin County Children Services in August to report the threats but was told the chil­dren were in no danger. 
"They said they went down to check on the kids before and that the kids looked so good and that there was nothing they could do," Archie said Wednes­day. "I asked them what has to happen. Does my baby have to be dead and gone?" 
Children Services spokeswoman Kay Marshall said she was not aware of any calls from Archie. 
Marshall said the agency sent a social worker to Chandler's home in May at the request of police. 
The Columbus Dispatch re­ported that police went to her apartment because of domestic dispute involving a boyfriend. Marshall said Chandler told police she also needed help with her children. 
One child was placed in a fos­ter home overnight and another child went with a grandmother. The children were returned the next morning, Marshall said. 
Marshall said Ms. Chandler agreed to meet with a social worker. 
The agency then made several scheduled and surprise visits to· the home and counseled Chandler through July 22. 
Chandler and the social worker agreed that she no longer needed counseling, and the case was closed, Marshall said. 
"We had done an investiga­tion for possible abuse or ne­glect and had found no signs of either," Marshall said. 
Officers also responded to domestic disturbances at the home March 8 and Aug. 4, both incidents apparently involving boyfriends, the Dispatch said. 
Franklin County court records show that in 1981, Chandler was found to be a neglected child and was in Children Services custody, the Dispatch said. She was again placed in the agency's custody in 1983 for truancy. 
Chandler was working toward obtaining a diploma equivalent to a high school education. She also was working part-time in a supermarket. 
"Her goal was to better her situation," Ms. Marshall said. 
Earlier this year, a neighbor who used to baby sit for Chan­dler referred her to a crisis center because she appeared to be under stress during her pregnancy with Ericka. 
"Kim was either real 1,1p or real down," said LaVerne Ford, who also is a retired mental health worker. 
"I knew she was disturbed when she was pregnant, and I thought she could use profes­sional help," Ford said. "She was saying she didn't want the baby and that she wanted to get rid of it." 
She said Chandler appeared to benefit from the crisis cen­ter's help but than began to be­have erratically about two months ago. 
The Obs81W11'/Sean Faman 

Sacred Silhouette 
The sun sets behind the majestic steeple of Sacred Heart Cathedral marking the end of another day. 
Noriega possibly accepts bribes 
MIAMI -The Medellin co­caine cartel poured almost $2 billion into Panama in the early 1980s, some of it on Manuel Noriega's plane, a confessed money launderer testified at the deposed Panamanian leader's trial Wednesday. 
Among the charges Noriega faces is accepting bribes to let the cartel launder its drug profits in Panamanian banks. 
Late in the day the govern­ment's star witness, Panama­nian pilot Floyd Carlton, also took the stand, but only began tracing his relationship with Noriega when court adjourned. 
Carlton said he built up a charter business in the early 1980s at a Panama City airport with Noriega's protection. 
"Nobody messed with us, no­body inspected our planes, no­body did anything to us," Carl­ton said. 
Most of Wednesday's prose­cution testimony was from Eric Guerra, a Panamanian busi­nessman who said the drug cash was flown into the Panama City airport aboard commercial and private flights, all under the watchful eye of Noriega's intelligence branch. 
"It came in suitcases, it came tied up in bundles, by denomi­nation, and with rubber bands around it," Guerra testified. 
He said that from 1980 until he left the money laundering operation in July 1984, passen­gers aboard daily flights from Miami carried in $500,000 to $800,000 each. Sometimes two couriers were on the same flight, he said. 
In 1982, private jets began weekly flights from Fort Laud­erdale to Panama City, each carrying $10 million to $15 million, he said. 
A jet the government says 
was Noriega's personal plane made several of the flights, said Guerra, identifying it from pho­tos. 
Flights from Fort Lauderdale 
began in 1982 and lasted about 
18 months until the cash smug­
glers were caught in Florida, he 
said. 
Guerra said Colombian Carlos 
Molina approached him in 1981 
with the money-laundering 
scheme. He later found out 
Molina worked for Medellin 
cartel leaders Pablo Escobar 
and Gustavo Gaviria, both of 
whom were indicted with Nor­
iega, but weren't extradited to 
the United States. 
Molina called him each day 
from Medellin to direct him ei­
ther to deposit the money in 
various banks or deliver it to 
individuals, he said. 
"I was the one who disposed . of it all," Guerra testified. 


The Observer 

Thursday, September 26, 1991 page 5 



Family mysteriously disappears from suburb home 
BARRINGTON, R.I. -This prominent member of the local Calitri, 29, owner of Barrington napped. signs of a struggle were found amuent town's suburban tran­Congregational Church, was Radio and Electric. Hightower allegedly said the in the car and the house. qulllty has been shattered by a arrested Monday while driving Residents said that what was caller demanded $300,000 ran­The only known connection family's disappearance and the Brendels' bloodstained car most difficult was not knowing som. He showed the Scriabines between Brendel and charges filed against a Sunday and was charged Tuesday, au­the full story. the bloodstains to persuade Hightower was investments school teacher who Is the prime thorities said. "It's weird. I wish we could them to put up $75,000, the FBI Brendel had made. Brendel suspect. Hightower was jailed in lieu know something," said retiree said. filed a complaint against 
Authorities fear they are of $100,000 bail on state and Frances Taft, 66, who lives just "We talked for six hours. Hightower last summer with the searching for bodies after find­federal charges including ex­around the corner. "I don't lock Unfortunately, his story didn't Commodities Futures Trading Ing blood stains and crossbows tortion, possession of stolen my doors or anything." hang together," Mrs. Scriabine Commission alleging that In the family garage and car, property -the family's car and "I think it's kind of scary. It said. Hightower made false rep­and signs of a struggle in the credit cards -and possession really is very nerve-wracking The Scriabines offered a resentations and lost his in­house. of a sawed-off shotgun. He not to know, to think that any­$5,000 reward for information vestment of $11,861. 
Federal, state and local au­wasn't charged with any violent thing of this magnitude has about the Brendels' where­A commission spokeswoman thorities have searched several crimes, however, because the happened, first of all, and then abouts. MWe are living on hope," said Hightower had not re­sites around town without fate of the Brendels was un­not to know," said Carole she said. sponded to the complaint. finding lawyer Ernest Brendel, known, authorities said. Collins, the Brendels' next-door The FBI and state and local Hightower and his family are 53, his librarian wife, Alice, 49, Brule said investigators had neighbor. police scoured the family's two­prominent in Barrington, U.S. or their daughter, Emily, 8. confirmed that Hightower Police began searching on story house, a garage and an Attorney Lincoln Almond said. They have not been seen since picked up Emily Brendel from a Monday after Brendel's sister in outbuilding. They appeared to "They're always out there late Friday. YMCA after-school program Guilford, Conn., alerted the FBI concentrate on the garage, us­working -real homebodies 
Investigators using dogs Friday. that Hightower tried to extort ing drills, saws and a crowbar, from what I can see," said searched soggy woods and a Barrington, a Providence $75,000 from her and her apparently searching for ar­neighbor Joseph Simas, 52. Coast Guard helicopter circled suburb of 16,000 that is one of husband after driving there rowheads from the crossbow, The Rev. Joseph Dye, pastor over town unsuccessfully look­the state's wealthiest communi­Sunday in the Brendels' car. authorities said. at the Barrington Congrega­ing for any trace of the family. ties, has been the sort of town Christine Scriabine said Investigators removed pieces tional Church where Hightower MI'm not coming to any conclu­where many people feel so safe Hightower told her and her of the garage wall. headed Sunday school and a sions about the family," Pollee they don't even lock their doors. husband an anonymous caller After Hightower's arrest, state youth program, began putting Chief Charles Brule said. Barrington is the kind of place had claimed Hightower's wife, prosecutor Patrick Youngs said together a counseling program 
Christopher Hightower, 42, a where "once every eight years, two children and the entire weapons -later identified as for the youngsters Hightower commodities broker and something happens," said John Brendel family had been kid-crossbows -blood stains and led. 

Testimony begins in trial of the murder of LA actress 
LOS ANGELES -The man The witness, a retired Beverly charged with murdering actress Hills policeman who has Rebecca Schaeffer hung his headed security at Burbank head and sat perfectly still Studios for 12 years, said in Wednesday as a movie studio June 1987, two years before security chief described Robert Miss Schaeffer was slain, Bardo John Bardo's obsession with the was brought to his office with young star. his flowers and teddy bear by 
John Egger said he tried to security guards. He had been talk Bardo into abandoning his begging the guards to take him quest to see Miss Schaeffer to Miss Schaeffer, Egger said. after the young man arrived one day at the Burbank Studios Egger said Bardo carried no carrying a huge bouquet of weapons, didn't seem hostile flowers and a 5-foot tall teddy and denied having mental prob­bear. lems. 
Miss Schaeffer then was star­MHe proceeded to tell me now ring in the TV series "My Sister much he was in love with Re­Sam." becca Schaeffer and he just 
Egger said he never wanted to see her and give her suspected this fan might turn the flowers and the teddy bear," violent. Egger said. 
"He was one of the most lucid MI let him know firmly that he and intelligent types of people wouldn't get in," Egger said, that I've dealt with," Egger and after finding out that said. Bardo, of Tucson, Ariz., had 
His testimony came as taken a bus from his Hollywood Bardo's trial opened without a hotel, Egger offered him a ride jury two years after Miss Scha­back. effer, 21, was shot to death as "I dropped him off and told she answered the door to her him the best thing would be for 
The Observer/Greg Massa 
Fairfax area apartment. him to go back to Tucson.... He

Engineering Day 
Deputy District Attorney said, 'I'm going to do that.' Marcia Clark gave no opening "All in all, it was a pleasant

Kellie Hahn (Graduating Class of '90) a representative of AMOCO, talks with Senior Craig Conner 
statement but launched imme­encounter," Egger said. "I felt

about future job prospects for engineers at Engineering Day yesterday. 
diately into Egger's testimony. I'd accomplished something." 


We're looking for seniors who like 



working with an kinds ofhardware. 
Careers in data processing, accmmting, actuarial, and auditing at State Farm. 
At State Fann, we understand the concept of "worlC Believe it or not, we also understand the concept of "play:' 
That'S because we don't think you can be really outstanding at the first without having an appreciation for the second. Which is exactly why a career at State Farm in Bloomington could be the ideal place for you. 
You'll work for one of the country'S most respected companies on the most advanced computer equipment in the industry. You'll be challenged and stimulated. You'll be rewarded with excellent pay and benefits. You'll make your classmates very envious. 
What'S more, you'll also have time to appreciate the fmer things in life. That'S because Bloom­ington isn't just a great place to start a career, its a great place to live, to enjoy, to start a family (if, indeed, you're ready to start thinking about that). In addition to the community'S pleasant neighbor­hoods, inviting parks, and other recreational facilities, you'll fmd two universities that offer a host of cultural and social activities to take advantage o[ S v. 
Ifyou're a senior with a math, accounting, data processing, nan •n• tate ranD or computer science background, come talk to us at your ..Jiiiill.. Insurance college placement office. We're looking for people who are ... Co . mOtiVated and OUtgOing. People WhO enjoy Challenges On the INSUUNC~ mp3Illes job -and away from il After all, you're not just looking for a Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois. great job. You're looking for a great way oflife. An equal opportunity employer. 
page 6 The Observer 


Stretching Out 
The Badin Football team stretches on South Quad in preparation for interhall football practice. 
Croatian factions urge for peace 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia­Leaders of the three main par­ties battling over Croatian in­dependence agreed Wednesday to seek a peaceful end to the conflict, holding out a frail hope for the Iatest truce in the secessionist republic. 
The meeting brought together the presidents of Croatia and rival Serbia with federal De­fense Minister Veljko Kadijevic, whose troops have backed eth­nic Serb rebels opposed to se­cession. 
The three urged a complete cease-fire in Croatia and said the crisis "must be solved only by political means," the state news agency Tanjug reported. 
The presence of hard-line Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic at Wednesday's meet­ing was significant because of the influence his republic has over the federal armed forces and the ethnic Serb fighters. 
But there were also negative signs: The army ordered fresh mobilizations of Serb youth, and the deputy president of Serbia's parliament, Borijove Petrovic, told Belgrade radio, "the Croatian forces will first have to be brought to their knees before we start negotiat­ing" with Croatian President Franjo Tudjman. 
There were also scattered re­
ports of spreading violence in the republics of Bosnia-Herce­govina and Montenegro.
At least five previous truce agreements have failed to halt the fighting in Croatia, which has claimed at least 500 lives since Croatia and its neighbor Slovenia declared independence on June 25. The latest was signed Sunday. 
The federal army -short of recruits because many Yu­goslavs are refusing the draft -on Wednesday ordered the mobilization of all male Serb refugees from Croatia under 40, and threatened legal mea­sures against those who refuse. 
More than 100,000 ethnic Serbs have fled to Serbia from Croatia since fighting started. 
most of the few battles concen­trated near the Croat-held towns of Vukovar and Vmkovci in eastern Croatia. 
Sporadic fighting also con­tinued in the central Adriatic port of Split, Tanjug said. There was no report of casualties. 
Tanjug reported border shooting between Croatian and Mootenegrin forces further south along the Adriatic, near the Bay of Kotor. 
In Bosnia-Hercegovina -the republic that many expect to be the next where widescale vio­lence erupts -a police re­servist was shot and killed overnight while guarding a post office, Tanjug reported. The at­tackers were not identified. 
Scattered shooting was re­ported in two other Bosnian towns, and a Muslim-owned restaurant was destroyed by a bomb, Tanjug said. 
Bosnia-Hercegovina's popu­lation is roughly divided among Muslims, Serbs and Croats who have a long history of bloody ethnic feuds. 
Meanwhile, the Serbian gov­ernment said it would "use all means" to prevent an indepen­dence referendum in Kosovo, the predominantly ethnic-Alba­nian province of Serbia. The vote is scheduled begin Thurs­day. 
Ih~ObseLVer. 
The observer is currently taking applications for the 
PAID POSITION OF : 
TYPESETTER contact Mark Sloan @ 239-7471 
L..--------::=:=::::==::::::========~ 








SHONEYS, 
Thursday Night Student Appreciation Night 
Present student I.D. at register and receive 1 0% off total check amount. Offer available 4:00 pm -close Shoney's -US 31 N 
Thursday, September 26, 1991 
Coal miners fight battles with police 
BUCHAREST, Romania ­Thousands of coal miners an­gered by their plunging living standard fought pitched battles with police Wednesday that left three dead and at least 60 in­jured. After a day of rioting, the president announced he would form a new government. 
The miners, who had com­mandeered trains in central Romania to bring their de­mands to Bucharest, stormed the government building and fought police with firebombs, clubs, rocks and axes. 
The injured in fighting that spread through downtown streets included 34 policemen, the Interior Ministry said. 
President Ion Iliescu and Premier Petre Roman later an­nounced they would move im­mediately to form a new gov­ernment to restore order, ac­cording to state television. No other details were divulged. 
"We are not going to leave this town until Roman resigns," said Miron Cosma, the leader of the miners. "The responsibility for the dead is his." 
It was the largest and most violent protest in months against Roman's tough market­oriented reforms, which have resulted in a sharp price in­creases. 
Romania was already one of Europe's poorest countries in the wake of Nicolae Ceausescu's decades of Communist dictatorship. 
In the melee at the govern­ment headquarters, helmeted miners threw firebombs at the building, starting small fires. 
Police responded with tear gas, and choking clouds hung over the building. 
A photographer for Rompres said Roman was in the govern­ment building at the time of the assault. The miners forced their way in and demanded to meet him. 
But they were pushed out by police and gathered at a square about half a mile away. Fresh battles erupted after they marched through downtown Bucharest, attracting at least 10,000 other people as they flied to University Square in the heart of the city. 
Tear gas billowed over the square as police sought to dis­perse the crowd. Some of the miners threw firebombs and smashed windows of private shops on the main boulevard, and battled with about 1,000 paramilitary police. 
Three policemen were seen lying on the ground uncon­scious, and an ambulance driver said he had taken four policemen to an emergency hospital with head injuries. A miner was seen with an open fracture of his leg and another appeared to have a broken arm. 
"Down With Iliescu!" "Down with Communism!" the crowd chanted. Many of Romania's leaders are former Commu­nists, although the draconian market reforms they are under­taking are far from communist in nature. 
One miner, 38-year-old loan Misa, said he had to borrow money to feed his five children. 
Flower DeliverY. 7 Days 


~'SY o Ppttk 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square51400 31 North South Ben IN 46637  1219\ 277·1291\; J P._AIIW•Id Z4 •ra.  
~ G YROS 4  

Grand Opening Specials are: yro Sandwich .............................................. $2.75 14 Pound Cheeseburger ............................. $0.99 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Fries ............. $1.99 
/2 Barbecue Chicken Dinner.....................$3.49 Rib Tip Dinner .•............................................ $4.75 
1 Shrimp Dinner ......................................... $3.79 
(all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw and garlic bread) 
Show Student ID and get a free 16 oz. drink with your rchase. Expiration date for the drink is September 
: : : : : : : : : N".ew1ocatioo:is now open : : : : : : : : : 
p~x~~ W~Y. ~~t1fl, ~Qs~~"*4 ;N:e~t:t~ ~~~~~ay ~tin:27~-Q~ · · · · · · · · Dining, Carry-out,·Drive~Thru · · · · · · · · · : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :Hotirs: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 
:Mc?n~Th:uts:tJ:9Q-:n;09: I:ri-~4t:ll~1:2::0Q : ~~n:tJ:(XHO;<lP : 


Thursday, September 26, 1991 

Palestinian delegates work on peace policy 
ALGIERS, Algeria -Leaders of the Palestinian parliament­In-exile labored Wednesday to reconcile moderate and hard­line views over terms of Pales­tinian participation In Middle East peace talks. 
After two days of impassioned speeches by Palestine National Council members, leading delegates were working on a final policy statement that will give the Palestine Liberation Organization authority to decide on Palestinian participa­tion, said Vasser Abed Rabbo, a member of the PLO executive committee. 
The statement should be submitted to the full parliament Thursday, he said. PLO spokesman Ahmed Abdel Rah­man said the congress would likely be extended one day to Friday. 
PLO leaders on Tuesday re­luctantly endorsed the Mideast conference that would bring Is­rael and key Arab states to­gether next month. 
Algerian television, mean­while, reported Wednesday that two Palestinians from the Is­raeli-occupied territories would defy Israeli law to address the national council in a closed evening session. 
Faisal Hussein! and Hanan Ashrawl have met with U.S. Secretary of State James Baker III several times to discuss the peace proposals. Israel aans contact between Palestinians from the PLO and those from the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Many view the talks as a last chance for talks on a Pales­tinian homeland, yet virtually all delegates consider political guarantees offered to the Palestinians by Baker to be woefully inadequate. 
Particularly irksome to them has been Baker's failure to ad­dress the issue of an indepen­dent state for Palestinians or guarantees that Israel would withdraw from the West Bank and Gaza Strip, occupied since 1967. 
"We are between the options of suicide and suicide," Abed Rabbo said In debate early Wednesday. 

I$50,000.00* FOR COLLEGE I 


Students can now obtain about $50,000.00within oneye$"S time towards college costs, and any other expenses. 
This money is available from bank, and department store credit card programs, and will not interfere with any student loans you might have, or are applying for. 
Let Phoenix Publishing show you alternate ways to finance your college education. 
100% SATISFACTION IS GUARANTEED, OR YOUR MONEY BACK, AND $20.00 CASH!
",... · -··'' ·· ....,.,...--,.,."..., ·'"'~<.:m'>-i'm:~:mm-m&<:s>?i.M.~~--,~~WN# 
Send $19.99 Plus $2.00 Shipping and Handling To: PHOENIX PUBLISlllNG CORP. 707 Foulk Rd., I# 102 WUmlngton, DE 19803-3700 
The Observer 
j.· 
, 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
Urban Plunge Information Session 
Sue Cunningham gives a presentation at the CSC on Urban Plunge which will open in the next two weeks. Registration for the 
page7 



Body found 

in Austrian glacier 
INNSBRUCK, Austria -A man whose 4,000-year-old mummified body was discovered on a glacier's edge wore tattoos, dressed In leather and packed a knife, scientists said Wednesday. 
Researchers called the Sept. 19 find by hikers an archaeological sensation, and said It could offer a rare glimpse Into life in the Bronze Age, a time when men ate meat and stone-ground meal, judging from the mummy's chiseled teeth. 
"We are absolutely sure this body is 4,000 years old," said Spindler of the University of Innsbruck's Institute for Pre­and Early History. 
From an examination of the body and Implements found with it, scholars dated the "Iceman from the Similaun" ­so named by Austrian newspapers for the glacier where he was found -to the early Bronze Age, roughly 2,000 B.C. In the Alps, he said. 
He said Items found with the corpse were not purposely buried with it, but were carried by the living man. They included a flint stone, pieces of leather and fur clothing, and shoes. 
Hikers In the Tyrolean mountains In Western Austria near the Italian border stumbled across the 
remarkably well-preserved man sticking out of the glacier 
at  a b0 ut  10 ,000  feet  and  
notified local police.  
Spindler  said  the  man  

appeared to be between 20 and 40 years old and was "a good mountain climber." He wore
winter clothing of leather and fur stuffed with hay at the time of his death, he said. 
Colored tatoos are visible on
th • kin 1n th r r
e corpses s ' e orm 0 

~:::~g ~:s 1~~~~~~~~::t:~; 
clear:
· 
American Heart &'a Association V 
fOCTORY CLOSEOUT 
SEPTEMBER 23-29; 11 A.M.-0 P.M. 
Assorted Colors Silk-Poly-Wool/Poly-Corduroy 
El ,.:1:=0 [~-1 ; I =i ~I:C•] ~ I! 3:1 j [ • J-:a1 
tJc·lto e4/Jfte(i 'J/(19:"-1f<dMk '?adftl<Jif-J, 



f,.:@.f/qf...;:.f~_}\.~:/~':t~~~Jp~~~.l~\~\~iAll p~oceeds to benefit the South Bend "SIIOHT,. HEG<II.(IH L4~f!)~,(~·· ;.. r 1p
:'I'' 
" lQft\' " F.X.-lUftG •f:'J.(;.i:·• !!<::,•··•. i· ·1': r'~~
Runaway Shelter for Adolescents through the \g;:\·~~:~'~.~'li ...~': !l.i/iif) United Way 
~~~l~:~~·"*~~.c?.~~ .... ;.1to.rrt4_ 1ft~(f:leu.?ffff/~ 
N SALE NOW at the Lafortune Information Des 

----~---~ 






Exceeding Expectations 


At Deloitte & Touche, our mission is to consistently exceed the expectations of our clients and our people. 
For you, this means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. 
So why not join a firm that will exceed your expectations? 
Member 
~iii International
--· 
To learn more about how we can exceed your expectations, stop by and see us. 
Event: Beta Alpha Psi Presentation Date: October 2, 1991 Location: La Fortune Hall, 
Montgomery Theatre Time: 7:00p.m. 
Deloitte& 


Touche 
Deloltte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, veteran status, or irrelevant handicaps. 

• ._____________________________________ -­
-----------~~---------------------~----~~~ 

Business 
Thursday, September 26, 1991 page 9 




Speaker Foley defends plan to tighten House bank rules 
WASHINGTON (AP) penalties for bounced checks, letters were needed, "not to Speaker Thomas Foley made an but the details had not been identify the transgressors, but unusual appearance on the worked out. to free the Innocent," he con­House floor Wednesday to head uMembers should be on notice tended, to no avail. off a Republican attempt to that I have told the bank that The General Accounting Of­make political hay with the there will be no exceptions to fice reported last week that rampant check-bouncing re­this rule," Foley said on the House members wrote more ported at the House bank. floor, and bank employees who than 8,000 checks In a one-year 
Rep. Toby Roth, R-Wis., was grant such exceptions would be period that overdrew their ac­prepared to offer a resolution frred. counts on the House bank. But calling for an official inquiry to the bank covered them, without identify, at least to House offi­uThis is now a matter that Is penalty, even though hundreds cers, the biggest abusers. But over, and done with, and it will of them were in excess of he stopped short after Foley de­not reoccur," he said. "I do not $1,000. livered a strongly worded ad­feel there is a need for any ad­dress. ditional resolution of the House, The GAO declined to release 
except perhaps a resolution the names or party breakdown 
uMembers will have the same which will state the House's of the transgressors, saying it rights, no more and no less, approval as I hope they will give could not legally do so. than any other member of the it for the actions I have taken as Roth, In a telephone inter­public," said Foley, adding that Speaker in this matter." view, said he drew up his reso­actions he ordered Tuesday in­lution following a meeting with cluded a halt to the free over­Foley was backed by House other House Republicans on drafts. Minority Leader Bob Michel, R­how to pursue the issue. While 
Foley announced then that he Ill., and he refused to entertain his intent was to publicly ex­had ordered an end to the free requests from others that the pose the violators, he said he overdrafts and loose check­names be released, even by was informed later a resolution cashing privileges at the House omission. alone might not be adequate. bank. Rep. Bob Dornan, R-Callf., "So I felt that my resolution ... 
He told reporters a system asked if he could get a letter served its purpose because it 
similar to that of a commercial from the House certifying he brought this issue to a head," 
bank would be set up, including was not a check-bouncer. Such he said. 

India's new open-door policy lures four American companies 
WASHINGTON (AP) -India's commerce minister said Wednesday four of America's best known corporations have decided to do business in India under its new open-door policy for foreign investment. 
International Business Ma­chines and Ford Motor Co. have concluded joint venture agree­ments with prominent Indian firms, while General Motors and the Kellogg Company have submitted proposals, Minister Palanlappan Chidambaram told reporters. 
Chidambaram said IBM bas agreed with Tata Industries, India's largest private con­glomerate, on manufacturing software and setting up a net­work of component vendors in India. 
Ford, he said, has concluded an agreement with Maruti Mo­tors to manufacture aluminum radiators. 
GM is proposing a $290 mil­lion Investment with another automaker, Hindustan Motors, to develop a new car and a range of components, he said. 
The Kellogg Co. proposes to set up a food processing sub­sidiary. Under the new policy the project will receive auto­matic approval, Chidambaran said. 
The four are the first major 
U.S. corporations to opt for In­

111adurai 
SRilANKA 
I . ~DIVES • Colombo, 0 """' 
~ 
The Random House Concise World Atlas 
PS-2 personal computers and vestments in India under liber-alized industrial, investment 
Governor Cuomo outlines ambitious spending plan to 'rebuild' New York 
NEW YORK (AP) -Gov. 
public, private and particularly
Mario Cuomo has outlined an ~-municipal unions -are willingambitious $7 billion capital to help.spending plan to "rebuild" New The proposal calls for the York City, but says both private 1~, multibillion-dollar plan to be and public sectors must pitch 
funded through public and pri­
·~.
ln. vate money, with a minimal in­
It's time, Cuomo said, "to put from state coffers. show what we are made of. We need to stop moaning and start Cuomo said it could create 
moving." 79,000 jobs -including 25,000 
Cuomo's plan to "rebuild the permanent slots and city from the ground up" in­generate $8.2 billion in cludes a wide range of public economic activity by the yearworks projects. 2000. 

MarloCuomo
They include a light rail line to Most of his proposals would New York's airports, high-speed Cuomo, often touted as a po­have to be approved by the water ferries, and major tential Democratic presidential state Legislature or other city,renovations at commuter hubs candidate, unveiled his "New state and federal authorities such as Grand Central Terminal New York" plan at a private before officials could even beginand Penn Station. meeting of 100 city officials, drawing up plans. 
union leaders and business ex­Cuomo admitted he could of­
The cornerstone of the plan is ecutives Monday night and fer no assurances that any of for. the state to gradually as­publicly Tuesday. his proposals would become sume the local share of Medi­reality. caid costs In return for counties The governor's proposals were shifting some of their taxing Intended to help lift the ul don't know if we're going to authority to the state. palpable depression Cuomo run into another Depression or 
says has enveloped the city: have another period of growth 
That plan has already MYou can feel the tensions in the and resurgence," he said. "But generated criticism from streets. You can see it in I'm saying it's worth pursuing smaller munlclpallties with low people's faces." and keeping the hope alive." Medicaid costs and praise from "What Is important is saving officials in the Big Apple, which But he said it would only be this city and starting now," he could save $1 billion annually. accomplished if all sectors -said. 
AP File Photo 
and trade policies adopted in July and August by Prime Min­ister P.V. Narasimha Rao's government, Chidambaram said. 
Six prominent German con­cerns that he did not name are also going to India, the minister said. 
Indian political leader Rajiv Gandhi, who was assassinated during a May 21 campaign tour, drafted the liberalized policies while his Congress Party was out of power, the minister said. They were adopted by Narasimha Rao's post-election Congress government. 
Several other American com­panies including Pepsico en­tered India under a more grad­ual liberalization policy of the mid-1980s now revived and ac­celerated by Narasimha Rao. 
The new policy says "India will grow faster as part of the world economy and not in iso­lation, trade must be free rather than shackled and the state must withdraw ftom areas of production where private enterprise has developed ma­turity," Chidambaram said. "Today our private sector is strong and mature." 
The minister's staff said IBM and Tata would share 50 per­cent equities in their joint ven­ture, with the U.S. company sending some senior officials to India and providing a training program. 








Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, September 26, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor~n-Chlef 
Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Buslna• Manager Usa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ................. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Mansger ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor ................... .John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .......... .Andrew McCloskey OTS DII'Ktor .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor............ Emily Willett Controllsr.....................Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as acrurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 
Saint Mary's academics enviable 
Nowhere is the idea that Saint Mary's is a second-class institution more noticeable than when students talk about academics. The typical Notre Dame stereotype is that Saint Mary's women attend the College because they were unable to get into Notre Dame. 
This stereotype does not give credit where credit is due. In the recent U.S. News and World Report survey of American colleges and universities, Samt Mary's is ranked third among other small, Midwestern, liberal arts colleges. This rank is indicative of the fact that, in competition with other schools of similar size and focus, Saint Mary's is a frrst-rate academic institution. 
Many believe that Saint Mary's small size is its greatest asset. A lower student to faculty ratio and smaller class sizes enable Saint Mary's students to receive a more individualized education than what is offered at largerinstitutions like Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's participate in an aca­demic exchange program which enables students to take classes at the other school. This program is mutuallybeneficial to both schools. Notre Dame students have the opportunity to take smaller classes. This is somethingthat is especially valuable in view of the increasingnumber of large lecture classes offered at Notre Dame. 
At the same time, Saint Mary's students have the op­portunity to take classes in a wider variety of academic fields. Many Saint Mary's students are able to get a second major in an academic area that is not offered at the College. 
In addition, Saint Mary's offers its students, as well as those from Notre Dame, the opportunity to receive a degree in education. Saint Mary's education program fills in the gap that exists in the academic offermgs of Notre Dame. 
One of the most revealing aspects of the U.S. News and World Report survey is the fact that Saint Mary's is ranked frrst in student satisfaction. This is indicative of the fact that many people do fmd value in the education that is offered by a small, all-female college like Saint 
M:J~se Dame and Saint Mary's are intrinsically different institutions with different focuses and purposes. The differences in the two should be able to compliment each other, not be a source of tension. 
DOONESBURV 
Dear Editor: 
Up until this year, I believe I was like most students at our University who see abortion as fundamentally wrong, but are unwilling to get deeply involved in debate, discussion, and even protest of this sensitive issue. In my mind, I believed that just being a student at this Catholic institution of higher learning was a clear indicator of my at­titudes and ideas. 
I was wrong. Abortion is not 
YOU'RE MAY£3e I AM, 
IT's PART OF MY 
SUING MAYBe I'M 
COM8 ()ATING STR.ATf6Y. 5a'r1f0Ne ? NOT. YOU 
AGAtN:t IFI APP/:3AR 7V [}()N/ KNOW. 
Be '3FDI<eN FOR, I
I 
\ 8faJM& MOR& fXG/R.­A/Jtb. " 
\ 
NO, IT'S PART OF BUT TH8{.()()!<15H!P TH.trr'7 1</TU/JL. YCV'f<& Fm CRAZY.' TO PlAY 7H8 '3AM8 6AM8 IF YaJ WANT. 
~-" 
...,......-\ 
y ~'\;-­
~ 

Community lacks sensitivity, contributes to abortions of unwed, pregnant women 
Dear Editor: 
Lately several articles have been written to Viewpoint con­cerning the abortion issue. In these articles, either the pro-life advocates attack the pro-choice advocates for killing helpless human beings, or the pro­choice advocates attack the pro-lifers for attempting to stop women from aborting their babies. We want to address the issue from another angle. This article is geared towards our peers, those women who are young, unmarried, and pregnant. 
What needs to be focused on, rather than a back-and-forth character bashing, is the reason why so many unmarried women choose to abort their children. We feel that it can be safely stated that most of these young women who abort do not fmd it an easy decision to make. What they need to know is that there are alternatives to the killing of their babies. However, the community is to blame for making these alternatives so unattractive. 
When a young woman of our 
age becomes pregnant, she is overwhelmed with countless and assorted fears; mainly, what will people think of her when they discover that she is, indeed, pregnant? For exam­ple, a close friend of ours at -Notre Dame became pregnant in December of last year. As a result, she was virtually de­serted by several of her "disapproving" closest friends at a time when she needed 
them most. 
All of a sudden she was dif­
ferent, and somehow less "holy" 
in their eyes. As soon as her 
condition became apparent, she 
was constantly stared at and 
talked about by others, usually 
right before her eyes. Being 
pregnant is difficult enough 
without having to deal with the 
insensitivities that run rampant 
in this community. 
We are not saying that the 
decision to abort is the right 
choice at all; in fact, we are 
saying the opposite. There are 
those people who do under­
stand, who will not turn their backs on the situation. 
Young pregnant women need to realize that the groups offer­ing support, including women's care centers, crisis pregnancy centers, and homes for unwed mothers, are pro-life groups. They care very much about you and your unborn baby, and will give you all of the help you need. Families are often more understanding than expected, and your real friends will al­ways be there for you. 
In conclusion, if we could all just be a little more under­standing and a lot less insensi­tive, an unwed, pregnant young woman might not decide to abort her baby. A good way to stop abortion is to be compas­sionate and supportive. No one has the right to pass judgment on someone because she has conceived a child before mar­riage. So she made a mistake; haven't we all? 
Megan Gallagher Michele Borbe Lewis Hall 
Sept. 24, 1991 
Teaching pro-life ideas will make a difference 
a problem which is going to disappear from today's society without a fight. Within the next few years, Roe v. Wade may be over-turned by an ever more conservative Supreme Court. That would leave women in today's society with two options: bringing a wonderful, new life into being or illegally and usually dangerously eliminating one. Only education and spread of pro-life ideas will lead to the morally correct choice of the former. 
As members of Our Lady's University, we should set the example for our nation to fol­low. We must be open and willing to debate and make known where we, as a commu­nity, stand. Through a simple, easy commitment to communi­cation and education, we may make enough of a difference to save young human lives. 
Mark A. Hellman Carroll Hall 
Sept. 22, 1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
CA
FINB! I'Mstt!NG Youmow, /J}1S OF 6/Ri.-5/ YOU'!<& NOT {)()l&NS/ I MAI<IN6 A {}ATe CM BY VERY (£()0 DUJIInJ RRST1M­THe ~v. Pf?E5'3tON. 
I 
'Unborn children have all the qualities and attributes of adult human person differing only in age and maturity.' 
Missouri Supreme Court October, 1972 
Disagree? Mail to: -QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 


---------~-----­




Accent 

Thursday, September 26, 1991 page 11 




Buildin 


rus 

Minority Student Affairs emphasizes their relationship with students and administration 

Amy Grant brings her exciting live performance to the JACC tonight at 7:30p.m. 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
Doors are opening at the office of Minority Student Affairs (MSA). 
As Iris Outlaw, current director of the program, and her assistant Marl Fuentes assume their new positions, MSA teems with potential for growth and development. 
This school year has been a fresh start for the office, stemming from small changes in organizational structure and big plans for new culturally diverse programs. 
"This office has changed a lot" since the events surrounding Students United For Respect (SUFR) activities last fall, said Feuntes. The establishment of Fuentes' position was a direct result of the students' push for a much needed assistant director. 
Also, there is more office space, a student lounge in the old club room, an assistant vice president who oversees the office, and a noticeable difference in relations with the administration. 
The administration, according to Fuentes, "seems more sensitive to the needs of the office. The commitment is there." 
"The assistant vice president Is empathetic with the students," 
The Obeerver/Kevin Weiee Iris Outlaw, director of Minority Student Affairs, listens to student concerns ragarding minority relations. 
continued Outlaw. There is fmally a move towards "trust-building" between the office and the administration. "I don't know if its ever been there before." 
According to Outlaw and Feuntes, the official goal of the office is "to encourage and assist students of color in the utilization of all of the academic and social opportunities at the University of Notre Dame, as well as facing the academic challenges placed before them." 
In order to activate this mission, the directing team has looked into implementing several new programs that include working within the residence halls and in conjunction with other universities. 
The first step is to bring cultural diversity to the dorms by sponsoring speakers, showing films, and holding discussions. 
The main focus is not necessarily cultural awareness, according to Outlaw. "Most students are already aware of cultural differences. We want to increase their sensitivity." 
Both women indicated that their backgrounds he-lped to prepare them for their position in the MSA office. 
Outlaw graduated from Indiana University in 1973, originally intending to attend medical school. 


,Grant's new pop image promises to uplift audience 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
Accent Writer 
Want your spirits lifted? Then go see Amy Grant tonight at 7:30 pm at the Joyce ACC. Her reputation of being a star in the Christian music scene is paling in comparison to her new found fame as a pop singer. 
On her Heart in Motion Tour, Amy Grant is capturing the attention of not only her devoted followers, but also a whole new generation of secular listeners with her most recent hit, "Baby Baby," which is a song dedicated to her baby daughter. 
She states that the song "helps to explain where my base is -where I'm coming from." 
Grant assisted in the writing of all the songs on her latest album, Heart in Motion. For the ftrst time she is breaking away from music that speaks only about spiritual matters and is now Instead, she headed to Notre Dame for a Master's degree in science ad­ministration. 
Before accepting her current position, she worked at a housing allowance office for about 14 years. It was there that she learned about teamwork and goal setting. 
"It (the housing office) was interesting," she said. "I worked with people on all social and economic levels ... it was a good learning experience. 
"I got a lot out of the program that I have been able to use here, like how to deal with certain issues and the importance of goals and foresight." 
Fuentes' position at the office of Minority Student Affairs was just established this year. 
Technically, her duties include organizing educational programs, counseling students and helping out minority student organizations; but, as she stated, "Iris and I work to­gether to divide all things." 
An 1989 graduate of Notre Dame, Fuentes is no stranger to the minority scene at NO. 
While a student here, she worked in the admissions office recruiting minority students. She also helped restart the Hispanic American 
concentrating on topics such as love, sexual abuse and matters of every day life. 
Her on-stage performance is filled with color and enthusiasm. There is the usual dancing and lighting, but there is also a great deal of humor and personality. 
When Grant performs "Hats," she appears on stage with a cart of hats and pro­ceeds to model them to the audience while singing. 
Grant's down to earth char­acter is also evident. She re­lates stories about her children and her life to the audience. Her success as a pop singer has not transformed her charm and warmth in the least. 
When Grant achieved crossove-r success from Christian to secular music, much of her core audience was wary of her new music. 
She responded by saying, "I'm just being who I am and hoping to God that I am writing music that you can live with and that adds something to your life." 
Organization (HAO), initiated a Mexican folklore group, and was a member of the multi-cultural council. 
Recruiting students for NO was "personally rewarding." Now as assistant director of MSA, she said she will be able to "make these students experience better." 
According to Fuentes, her age and NO experience make her ideal for the job. She is able to speak to the administration honestly and realistically, while still being able to relate to the students. 
Both Fuentes and Outlaw have optimistic hopes for the future of MSA. 
"I see it (MSA) going in a very 
positive, growing direction. We have 
a lot of room to grow -that's our 
challenge, where we take it," said 
Fuentes. 
Outlaw expressed a sincere desire that students stop by the office whenever the need arises: "We have an open door policy." 
Adopting a quote from Chuck Lennon, assistant vice president of University relations, Outlaw said, "People don't interrupt our business; they are our business." 
"If it weren't for the students, 
there wouldn't be a need for us," she 
explained. 
She has maintained the admiration of her old listeners even though she is quickly entering into the ranks of superstardom. 

Grant has shattered the im­age that all Christian singers are from the "Barbie and Ken" mold. She is not the lily-white stereotype that people have associated with Christian singers. She, however, has kept her spirituality very much alive underneath the new pop ... singer image. 
She started singing when she was 15 years old. She achieved extraordinary success as a Christian singer and transformed contemporary gospel music sales. 
Now, she is setting precedents for herself. Her new album has sold over 10 million records worldwide. 
Even though this album is a stepping stone for Grant, she claims, "this is probably the least self-conscious of any album I have done." 


The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1991 
page 12 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII 25% off list price 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Right to Life 
Weekly Picket at Crisis Pregnancy Center every Friday. Meet at !lam-library circle. 
LIVE ROCK N' ROLL from west of here appearing at Club 23 Friday September 27 
HOUSE SITTER AVAILABLE. EXPERIENCED, RELIABLE, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. REASONABLE DAILY RATE. CALL MELISSA 2n-5708. 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
"NEW MOVIES" 
-Awakenings -Dances With Wolves -Edward Scissorhands -New Jack City -Home Alone 
"SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES" Available Nowll 
LaFortune Student Center 4:00-11 :00 p.m. Seven Days A week 


LOST/FOUND I 
.._LO-S-T:_S_tu-de_n_t1-.D-.car-dca-se--' 
w/ temporary I.D., driver's license, and other cards belonging to Francis Kelly. 
PLEASE return to 307 Carroll I 
Found: EYEGLASSES on north quad between BP and Cavanaugh-cali x1676 &claim 
My girlfriend gave me a black, green and yellow bead before her car wreck and I lost it 22 Sep about 7:15pm between the Rocke and D6 parking. If you found it plz call David at 289-3234. 
FOUND: Denim jacket in parking lot behind ACC on Saturday. Call x4076. 
LOST: ND CLASS RING AT SENIOR BAR OR LINEBACKER. BlACK ONYX WITH M.F. CARROLL INSCRIBED IN IT. 
REWARD. CALL MIKE 271-8159. 
FOUND men's gold watch in Fitz computer lab Wed. night calll1245 
LOST-MY LICENSE PLATE Illinois plate reading 
"D TROIT"Iost Thurs. 19 Sept. somewhere between Stanley Kaplan Center (next to Turtle Creek) and the D-2 lot. PLEASE call if you have it or any infonnation -it's going to cost a bundle to replace. Reward offered for return -no questions asked. Call4911. 
FOUND: SEIKO WATCH AT THE GROTTO. CALL & DESCRIBE 284­5168. 
LOST: An Indiana driver's liscence and St. Mary's I.D. Call Sara during the day@ 
(708) 866-8700 and in the evening @ (312) 281-5166. 

LOST OR STCl..EN LICENSE PLATE ... Illinois plate reading "D TROIT" missing since 
Thurs. 19 Sept; came off 
somewhere between Kaplan 
Educational Center (next to Turtle 
Creek) and the D-21ot I realize it's 
cute, but it will cost a bundle to 
replace so PLEASE return if you 
have it and no questions will be 
asked II If you have the plate or 
info, call 4911 . Generous reward 
offered. 
FOUND: A pair of glasses in a blue-gray glass case. (found between the library and PW) Call Kevin at 283-2324 or at 2n-9311. 
FOUND: SET OF KEYS IN COUNTRY HARVESTER ON 9/24. CAll239-6714 AFTER 
12:30 PM & IDENTIFY. 
selling 50 funny college T-shirts. No financial obligation. Smaller or larger quantities available. Call tollfree 1-800-728-2053. 
WANTED female roomate 2bdrm, apt. Runaway Bay call 259-3646. 
Babysitter wanted for 3 &5 
y.o. boys for the occ. wkday or wkend with light hsekeeping. $4/hr. 287-3694. 
Ride to DAYTON on Sunday. Call Jessica X4818 
().C Senior needs 4 USC GAs desperately 288-0933 
WANTED: Off-campus roommate. Furnished. Call Jon at 271-1562. 
Desperately need ride for Oct. Break-anywhere on LI,NY Please helpII X2172 Keri 
BABYSITTER NEEDED 
TUESDAY~HURSDAYS,B-5 
FOR ONE-YEAR OLD. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. REFERENCES REQUIRED. CALL SUSAN 259-6006. 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA Now hiring drivers 10-40 hrs. per wk. Wages +tips + comm. Flexible schedules & perks. Call today 271­11n. 
Guys with exp. in a cappella singing: Too busy for glee club? Me too. I'd like to get together a quartet or quintet to do doo-wop/ jazz. No clubbers please. Man x1437


I FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
House for Rent 
$200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 8am-4pm. 1310 South Bend Ave. 
Furnished apts. near N.D. cozy 1 bedrm $255 clean 2 bedrm $340, dept. ref. 1-800-582-9320. 
NOTRE DAME AVE.2 BEDROOM.FURNISHED.272-6306 
Wanted: Female apt. mate, 2-bdrm. apt. at Turtle Creek. Call2n-5463 after6 pm. 

FOR SALE 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone Game Day Promotions 291-6394. 
Tappan Range-30"-White­Electric-Almost New -$150 -239­5510 Days 
Guitar lessons from ND Teacher Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 
Boston-One way Ticket from Boston to South Bend on Oct.27. Best offer. 273-9316 
For Sale: 
Tix to DC for October Break 10118-10/25 $200 or negotiable 
Call 284-4452 

TICKETS 
I NEED 5-6 TENN. TICKETS I WILL PAY BIG $$$$ CALL SEAN @4274 
NEED 2GA OR 1STDI1GA FOR USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. 
NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL MARK COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161. 
need GA's to TENN game lisa 2572 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
WANTED: 3 PITT GA's for 
family. I WILL PAY BIG BLICKSI 
HELP ME I Dan x2349 
-USC TROJANS­-need SIX g.a.'s ­CALL ROB at x1845 
Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade for 4 Pin GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. 
NEED: ND ALUM NEEDS TICKETS TO ANY OR ALL ND HOME GAMES. CALLJOE AT #271-1430. 
NEED 1 PITT GA Sheri x2191 
PLEASE HELPII NEED 2 PITT GA's. X-1750 Kyle 
PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX Alum needs 2 GA's for Pin. Will pay $$$. Call at work 
(312) 701-6204 or at home 
(708) 616-7818 anytime. PITI TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX 
2G.A.,s Stanford For Sale Call John @4050 
NEEDED: SIX TENN. GAs call Jeremy 2n-4873 
WANTED: 2ND/TN tickets. CAll 502-354-8826 from 5 pm to 9pm collect. 
HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S & TENN ST. NEED 4 PITT GA'S. X2204. 
I have 2 NAVY GAs will trade for 2 PITT GAs call Nicole at x3719 
NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE CALL JILL 272-1967. 
PLEASEIll NEED 2 TIX FOR TENN GAMEl! X1684 
HAVE 2 Purdue GA's. x4092 
NEEDED: 4 PITT GAs C;oll u..,.n..,. "' 3427. 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. 
FOR SALE: TWO PURDUE GA TICKETS. IF INTERESTED, CALL CHRIS AT 234-5193. 
HelpI 3 GAs needed for PITI Call X1678 
I HAVE TWO PURDUE TICKETS 
FOR SALE Ill CALL X2670 ASK FOR JEANNE 
NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371 
I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME GAME! CALL MIKE 1655 
Need 2 Navy GA"s And 2 Tenn. GA's Make my life call Dave #2201 
i need 2 GA's for USC and PITT. Greg x1795. 
Need 4 USC GA's Call Bill X1143 
NEED 8 PITT TICKETS FOR POOR RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN X1589 
NEEDED! Pin GAs Navy stud. If you can help call Scott 2373. 
I NEED TENN TIX BADLVI CALL MIKE AT 1103. 
NEEDED: 2 TENNGA's for Alum. Please call Susan: 284-4435 
FOR SALE, 2TIXS ALL HOME GAMES 273-1802 
NEED 2 NAVY GAS @284-5029 
Need GA's for Pin., USC, and Tenn. Jay X1578 
NEEDED: 
3 GA.'s to USC game please call Mike at x1578 
HELP! TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED Please call Sam Santo at (201)217-0030 (home) or 
(201) 992-8700 (work). 
HEYIIII I NEED PITT TIX AND MY DAD IS WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKSII CALL X2068 AND ASK FOR ANN MARIE 
I HAVE PURDUE TIX CALL JIM X2341 
I'M SHIT OUT OF LUCK....UNLESS YOU SELL ME 2 GA'S TO U.S.C. CALL X3414 -ASK FOR KATHY'S LOG 
VINCE (KATHY'S LOG) BUONOCOURSI NEEDS 2 U.S.C. GA'S FOR HIS DOMER 
RELATIVES. HELP OUT THIS liPLESS BY CALLING X3414 OR 3410 OR AT RAMONA'S AFTER 
1AM 
Purdue tickets for sale! Call Carrie @4029. 
Have 6 tix to Stanford. 
Make offer. call x1563 
NEED 2 GA's FOR PITT, USC, AND TENN. CALL GREG x2092 
I NEED USC tickets so bad I feel it deep inside me. 
Call me. Trish 
289-7934 
Purdue GA's for salel Call P.l. x2859 orMikex11n 
Need 3-4 PITT. TICKETS. Will 
pay the big bucks! Jeff 234-2396. 
•• I NEED 2 NAVY GAs •• 239-8332 
HAVE 2 PITT 2 NAVY TIX; 
NEED 2 USC TIX; 
WILL SWAP 201-487-9000 
4 PURDUE GAs FOR SALEHI Call Wendy x3731 
WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2n3097 
NEED 2 GAs FOR PITT CALL 284-5005 
I HAVE 3 NAVY GA'S MIKE x1161 
People who haven't seen condoms play football before need 4 USC GA's. Call John at 283-1689 
PITT TIX 4 SALE x1002 LEAVE OFFER IF YOU WANT TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY 
I need 2 USC tix Tom #3109


I PERSONAL 
I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
I am the Lizard Queen and I can do the Lizard King. 
$$$$ 
Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
Going to CLEVELAND this weekend? I might like a ride, please. Pete x1791. 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + CASH! CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP 
+ BONUS CASHI FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
"I was feeling penises just everywhere.· -Monica Yant 
Are you going to PURDUE? I need a ride. Beth x4341 
"#"#'#"#"#"#"#"#"#"#"# 
HEY P.W.­QUEEN WEEK IS HERE II Come out and support your 
section queen canidates. The Schedule: Today-The World's slowest bike race. In front of PW at 7pm Wed-Cartoon Nite. In the Party room at 8pm Thurs-Jello Tug-of-war and Barbeque. In Mod Quad at Spm and...the grand finale .•.. 
The Road to Royalty SYR with a coronation at Midnight. Get dates I Get psyched! and 
Suppor1 your Queen ill 
.,.,...•.,.,.,.,.,.,.,. 

The Observer accepts dassffleds every business day from 10 am. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary"s office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classllleds is 3p.m. All classnleds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per characler per day. lnduding all spaces. 
WASHINGTON D.C. CLUBIIIII There will NOT be a bus going home for Oct. break. WASHINGTON D. C. CLUBIIII 
CAMP LEWIS • CAMP LEWIS We even have indoor plumbing. 
URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2 
PITT TIX Kathleen @ x3726 x4132. 
Baby, 
I'm sorry we couldn't celebrate our Happy Day II know this weekend will make up for our forgetfulness. As always with you, I'm looking forward to a night of enjoyment. I love you. Forever, Teddy 
GUITARIST NEEDED for campus funk band. James Brown, Fishbone, Prince, Etc. Call X1678 
ATTN SENIORS and all interested undergrads: 
Don't miss out on volunteer opportunities. 40 service groups will be at the post-grad fair Oct. 2 at the esc. Come find out what's available! 
Sunshine-Hope you're having a good dayI Luv, Stevie 
GEOFFREY (P-MAN), 
Happy Birthday Big Guy, 
Have fun in the streets of London Love, Betty PS-I miss you 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote g:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 
every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Jen, Anita, Shannon, Nancy, Jessica & my Grace Brothers, 
I don't ever remember poeple's B-day's, but you all remembered mine. Thank you very much! 
THE OLDMAN 
JASMINE GROOVE @Club 23 Thursday, Sept. 26 
CLUB 23 & VIC'S SUBS 
are now open from 11 am to3 am 
The only alternative 
Live Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone : 234-4015 
Karen who played the hammer at Ariel, please call x1563 
I am in desperate need of a ride to CINCINNATI this weekend. Please call Sean at X1496. 
Have an ELFKIN, my good woman... and chill 
AUDITIONS II for Wash. Hall Mainstage production of THE CHRISTMAS CAROL on 9-29 and 
9-30 at 7pm in the Library Auditorium 
Questions?? call Sherry @ 289-7829 
Two PURDUE tixll They're together. Will sell @cos till Call Geo@ 1002. 
Irish Music & Dance@ Club 23 Every Tuesday in October SEAMAISIN 
Hey Honey, 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY! 
You got a rock after 10 months, what will you get after a year? 
Here's to a hundred morel Love, David 
in celebration of BRAD GRABS BIRTHDAY there will be a GEEK DANCE at the potato house. All London girls and chirping insects bring your whips and chains. HARRRRRRRR 
Love Gabby & Erin COLLEEN LOEFFLER (in lnnsbruck), Hope you are having a great time! We miss you and all of your fabulous advice I I'm sure you're having a blast though. How's the food (let's get right to the point here)? Hope to hear from you soon I 

Love, Jeanne and Collynn

......................................... 
BRUCE IS LOOSE Go BILLS 19-0 'da Bears SUCK Ditka 
ANDREW MCCLOSKEY, That was a terrific slide show. THANK YOUII!! The London Program. 

To the Lewis Hoes-(you know who you are)-Only two more days till our seamiest in Purdue. May the best slut win. 
Cookie (the wicked way cool one) 
JOE, 
My water polo stud-Good Luck this weekend, and don't worry: 111 be on my best behavior. Maybe! 
Love you, Carrie 
P.S. Get some sleepI! I 
Jodi, Congrats on your 2 goals. Have fun in Calc. and Physics. 
-D.O. 
P.S. Read the paper I 

ATIN: ARROGANT DOMERSIII!! Respond to yesterday's blasphemy, write or call: 
STEVE HURST, 717 South Woodlawn Ave, Bloomington, IN 47401. (812)323-2730. 
Rich-

The scouting report is in. Depending on the coverage, I'm either a wide receiver or a tight end. But beware, if one's not careful one might get a Heisman. 
Love, Me 

Yo P-Man, Happy 8-Day Dude I NH was a blast. Warm up the pubs for mel 
Talk to you later, Rich 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
'NEW MOVIES" 
-Awakenings -Dances With Wolves -Edward Scissorhands -New Jack City -Home Alone 

"SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP RATES" Available Now! 
LaFortune Student Center 4:00-11:00 p.m. Seven Days A Week 
WSE $500...$1 000...$1500 

!FOOL/ 1~ ~r·:·J ~ 
FU.-.D 



RAISING 
For y_our fraternity, sorortty, team or other campus organization. 
A8SOiUfl1Y NO INVI5rMINr aiQUiafDI 
CALL 1-800·950-8472, ext. 50 
There is a need in your own hometown. Please join your local chapter 

American 
Red Cross 




SCOREBOARD 

BASEBALL STAHDIH~~  AL LEADERS  HL LEADERS  TRAHSACTIC :,:;  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  AMERICAN  LEAGUE  NATIONAL  LEAGUE  BASEBALL  
Eaat Dlvlalon Toronto  w 85  L 88  Pel .558  00  l10 4-8  Streak Won  2  Home 42-33  Away 43-35  BAmNG-Franco, Taxu, .341; Griffey Jr. Seanle•.332; Boggs. Boston, .332; Molhor, Milwaukee, .328; Palmelro, Texaa•.324; Tartabull,  BAmNG-Morrls, Cincinnati, .322; TQwynn, San Diego, .317; McGee, San Francisco, .315; Pendlelon, Atlanta, .313; Bonlla. Plnllburgh, .306;  American Laagua CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Recalled Chrta Cron, lnllelder, from Edmonton of the Pacific Coast  
Boston  81  89  .540  2112  z-8-4  loa!  2  42-33  39-36  Kan881 Cny, .324; Thomas, Chicago, .321; Puckan,  Joaa, St. Louis, .305; Larkin, Cincinnati, .304.  League. Purchued lhe contract of Kevin Flora.  
Detron  77  73  • 513  8112  z-4-8  Won  2  48-29  31-44  Minnesota. .321; CRipken, Bahlmore, .321 .  RUNs-Buller, Loa Angeles, 1 05; Johnson, New  Infielder, from Midland of the Texaa League.  
Milwaukee  73  78  .490  10  7-3  Won  1  39-35  34-41  RUNS---MQihor. Milwaukee, 122; Palmelro,  York, 104; Bonilla. Plnaburgh, 97; Sandberg,  TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Signed Shawn Green,  
NewYOII<  84  88  .427  19 112  z-4-8  loa!  1  35-40  2~8  Texu, 111; Canaeco, Oakland, 109; Sierra. Texaa,  Chicago, 98; Gant, Atlanta, 94; JBell. Plnsburgh,  oUiflelder.  
Baltimore  83  87  .420  20 112  z-~5  Won  1  31-45  32-42  106; Whne. Toronto, 106; Franco, Texas, 103;  91; Pendleton, Atlanla, 90.  N•tlon•l  Laagua  
Cleveland  51  98  .342  32  5·5  loa!  2  27-47  24-51  Thomas, Chicago, 98.  RBI-Johnson, New York, 111; WCiark, San  FLORIDA MARLINs-Named Gary Hughes  
w..t Dlvlelon  RBI--flelder, Detroh, 128; Canaeco, Oakland,  Francisco, 107; Bondo, Plnsburgh, 106; Dawson,  dlrador ofacoullng and opeclal aaalllanllo the  
w  L  Pel  00  LIO  Streak  Home  Away  114; Sierra, Texaa, 112; Carter. Toronlo, 106;  Chicago, 101; McGriff, San Diego, 100; Gant,  general manager.  
Minnesota Chicago Texao  91 82 80  80 69 71  .803 .543 .530  g 11  z-8-4 5·5 z-~5  Won loa! Won  4 3 3  50-27 43-31 43-31  41-33 39-38 37-40  Thomas, Chicago, 104; CRipken, Bahlmore. 101; JuGonzalez, Texas, 99. HITS-Mol~or, Milwaukee, 199; Palmelro, Texas,  Allanla, 99; Bonilla. Plltaburgh, 95. HTs-BUIIer, Los Angeles, 173; Pendlelon, Allanla, 172; TGwynn, San Diego, 168; Bonilla,  BASKETBALL N•llon•l Baakelbell Aaaoclallon ATLANTA HAWKS-Signed Rodney Monroe,  
Oakland  80  72  .528  11 112  5·5  Won  1  4~32  35-40  192; Sierra, Texu, 191; CRipken, Bahlmore, 191;  Pl11sburgh, 167; Joae, St. Louis, 168; Saba,  guard.  
Kanau cny California  77 78  75 78  .507 .500  14 112 15 112  5-5 5·5  Lost loa!  1 2  35-39 37-41  42-38 39-35  Franco, Texas, 1811; Puckan, Mlnn8801a, 187; RAiomar, Toronto, I SO; Sax, New York, 180.  Cincinnati, 164; Grace, Chicago, 162; Sandberg, Chicago, 162.  MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Signed Slave Henaon, guard, to a 1-year conlract.  
seanle  78  76  .500  15 112  z-4-8  loa!  4  43-35  33-41  DOUBLES-Palmelro, Texaa, 46; Griffey Jr.  DOUBLEs-Bonllla, Plnsburgh, 43; Jose. St.  Continental Baakelbell Aaaocl•llon  
Seanle. 42; Sierra. Texas, 42; CRipken, Baltimore,  Louis, 40; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 35; Zelle, Sl. Louis,  TAl-CITY CHINOOK-8igned Reid Newery,  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  42; Carter, Toronto, 41; RAiomar, Toronto, 40;  33; Morris, Cincinnati. 32; Saba, Clnclnnall, 32;  guard, and Jim Usevnch, center.  
E..t  Dlvlalon  Reed, Boston. 40.  Ganl, Allanla, 32; Pendlelon, Atlanta, 32;  FOOTBALL  
x -Pinaburgh  w 112  L 59  Pel .809  00  l10 z-8-2  Streak Won  3  Home 47·28  Away 45-31  TRIPLES-Molhor, Milwaukee, 12; RAiomar, Toronto, 11; LJohnson, Chicago, 11; McRae,  McReynolds, New York. 32. TRIPLES-lankford, St. Louis, 15; TGwynn, San  Nallon•l Football League BUFFALO BILLS-Signed Chris Oldham,  
Sl. Loulo  79  73  .520  13 112  z-4-6  Won  1  47-30  32-43  Kansas Chy, 9; While, Toronto, 9; Gladden,  Diego, 11; Finley, Houslon, 10; LGonzalez,  cornerback. Placed J.D. WIHiams. cornerback, on  
New York  72  78  .480  19 112  z-4-8  Los!  2  37-40  35-38  Minnesota, 9; Devereaux, Baltimore, 8; Mack,  Houslon, 9; Grissom, Montreal, 8; JBell, Pittsburgh,  Injured reserve.  
Philadelphia  73  80  .477  20  6-4  Won  2  43-34  30-46  Minnesota, 8; Polonla, CaiKornla, 8.  7; Candaele, Houston, 7; Pendleton, Allanla, 7;  CHICAGO BEARS-Placed Ron Cox, linebacker,  
Chicago  72  79  .477  20  z-3-7  loa!  2  43-37  29-42  HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detroh. 43; Canseco,  VanSlyke, Plnsburgh, 7; Owen, Monlraal, 7.  on Injured resel\'8. Activated Shaun Gayle, safety,  
Monlreal  87  84  .444  25  z-5-5  Loa!  1  33-35  34-49  oakland, 42; Carter, Toronlo, 33; Tartabull, Kansas  HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York, 37; Ganl,  lind Ron Morris, wide reoelver, lrom Injured  
Weal Dlvlalon  Clly, 31; CRipken, Baltimore, 31; Thomas, Chicago,  Allanla, 31; MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 31;  r988rve.  
w  L  Pel  00  LIO  Streak  Home  Away  30; Belle, Cleveland, 28; Tanleton. Detroh. 28;  McGriH. San Diego. 29; Dawson, Chicago, 29;  CLEVELAND BROWNS-Placed Mike Johnaon,  
Loa Angeleo  88  64  .579  7-3  Won  3  50-25  38-39  CDavls, Mlnn8801a, 28.  O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; KvMhchell, San Francisco,  linebacker, on Injured reserve. Waived Darryl  
Allanla  86  65  .570  1 112  z-6-4  Won  1  46-30  40-35  STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 52;  27.  Ingram, llghl end. Signed Cedric Figaro,  
San Diego  77  75  .507  11  z-5-5  Lost  1  38-39  39·38  RAiomar, Toronto, 51; Ralneo, Chicago. 50;  STOLEN BASES-Grlssom, Montreal, 73;  linebacker. and Mike Elkins, quarterback.  
Clnclnnall  71  80  .470  16 112  2-8  Los!  2  38-37  33-43  Polonla. CaiKornla, 46; Cuyler, Detroh, 38; Whhe,  Nixon, Atlanta, 72; DeShields, Monlreal, 56;  DALLAS COWBOYS-Placed Godfrey Myfea,  
San F ranclsco  71  82  .464  17 112  z-8-4  Won  2  40-35  31-47  Toronto, 33; Franco, Texas, 31.  Bonds, Plnsburgh, 41; Lankford. Sl. Louis, 39;  linebacker. on Injured r888rve. Activated Rob  
Houston  62  91  .405  28112  4-6  loa!  2  37-41  25-50  PITCHNG (15 Dacislons)-Heoketh. Boslon,  Butler, Los Angeles, 38; Coleman, New York, 37.  Awah, lighl end; Ricky Blake, running back, and  
x-cllnched division lille  11-4, .733, 3.21; Erickson, Minnesota, 19·7, .731.  PITCHING (15 Decislons)-Rijo, Cincinnati, 14·  Dixon Edwards, linebacker, from Injured reserve.  
z-denoteo flr11l game was a win.  3.32; Langston, CaiKornla, 17-8, .680, 3.15;  5, .737, 2.41; Smiley, Plnsburgh, 18-8, .692, 3.29;  DETROIT LIONS-Signed Anthony Bell,  
Clemens, Boston. 17·8, .680, 2.43; Gullickson,  MIWilllams, Philadelphia, 11·5, .687, 2.17; Avery,  linebacker.  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  Wedneaday·a  Game•  Detroit, 19-9, .679, 3.94; Tapanl, Mlnneoota, 16-8,  Atlanta, 17-8, .680, 3.42; Hursl, San Diego, 15-8,  GREEN BAY PACKERS-Activated Louis Cheek,  
Tu..day'a  Gamea  Late Games Not Included  .667, 2.87; JoGuzman. Texas, 12-6, .667, 3.20;  .652, 3.29; Greene, Philadelphia, 13·7, .650, 3.21;  oHenslve lineman, from Injured reserve.  
Boelon at Baltimore, ppd., rain  Oakland 8, Kansas Clly 4  Ryan, Texas, 12-8, .667, 2.92.  Gooden, New York, 13-7, .650, 3.60.  INDIANAPOLIS COL TS-Walved Frank Giannelli,  
Detro~ 7. Cleveland 2  Texas 7, Seatle 1  STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 217;  STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, 209;  nose Iackie. Re-signed Cornell Holloway,  
Minnesota 9, Chicago 2  Toronto 7, Calllornla 2  RJohnson, Saanle, 216; Ryan, Texas, 187;  GMaddux, Chicago. 181; Glavlne, Allanla, 177;  defensive back. Aasigned Mike Thley, lighl end, to  
Milwaukee 5, New York 4  Boslon al Ba~lmore, 2. ppd., rain  McDowell, Chicago, 186; Langston, California,  Harnisch, Houslon, 164; Greene, Philadelphia,  the practice squad.  
Toronlo 3, Calllornla 0, 10 Innings  Cleveland al Delroll, (n)  167; Candionl. Toronto, 163; Swindell, Cleveland,  154; Beneo, San Diego. 151; Gooden, New York,  KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Waived Anlhony  
Kansu Clly 5, Oakland 4  New York al Milwaukee. (n)  161.  150.  Parker, cornerback. Re-algned Mike Bell, defensive  
Texas 8, Seallle 7  Chicago al Mlnneoota, (n)  SAVE~arvey, Calllornla, 43; Ecken~ley,  SAVES-LeSmllh, Sl. Louis, 43; DIJble,  and.  
Thuraday'a Game• Boston (Clemens 17-8 and Heokelh 11-4) at Ballimore (Johnson 4-6 and Mllackl 10-8), 2, 12:15  Oakland, 42; Aguilera, Minnesota, 40; Reardon, Boston. 40; Henke, Toronto, 32; Montgomery,  Cincinnati, 31; MIWIIIIams. Philadelphia, 30; Franco. New York, 27; Righanl, San Francisco, 24;  LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Waived Greg Harrell, light end, I rom the practice squad. Plaoed Vance  
p.rn  Kansas C~y. 31; Olson, Balllmore, 30; Thigpen,  Lefferts, San Diego, 22; BLandrum. Plltsburgh, 17;  Mueller and Nick Bell, running backs, on the  
Cleveland (Olio 1-7) al Detroit (Tanana 11·12). 7:35p.m. NewYOII< (Taylor 7·11) al Milwaukee (Wegman 13·7), 8:05 p.rn  Chicago, 30.  DaSmhh, Chicago. 17; Berenguer, Allanta, 17.  practice squad. LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Ron Brown, wide  
Ca!Wornla (Feners2-3) a1 Kansas C~y (Gubicza 8-11), 8:35p.m.  recelver-ldck ratumer. Signed Jeff Pahukoa,  
Texas (Boyd 2·5) at Oakland (Moore 15·8), 10:05 p.m.  oHenslve Nneman, to lhe practice squad.  
Only games scheduled  NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Waived Ron Heard,  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  Wedneaday'a  Gamea  wide recefver, lrom lhe practice squad. Placed Tim  
Tuaaday'a Gamea Late Games Not Included Clnclnnall at Atlanta. ppd .. rain Philadelphia 5, Chicago 4 Philadelphia 4, Chicago 2 Allanta 2, Clnclnnall1, 10 Innings, 1st game St Louie 4, Monlraal 3 Clnclnnall at Manta, 2nd game, (n) P111aburgh 10, New York 8 Pl11sburgh al New York. ppd., rain San Franclaco 9, Houllon 7 San Fran cisco 2. Houslon 1 Loa Angelel 5, San Diego 2 Montreal at Sl. Louis. (nl Los Angeles al San Diego. (n) rhuraday'a a...... . Plnllburgh (Tomlin 8-7 and Smiley 18-8) at New York (Cone 13-13 and Castillo 2-1), 2, 5.10 p.m. Clnclnnall (Rijo 14-5) at Atlanta (Lebrandt 15-11), 7:40p.m. Only games scheduled  MEN St. Edward's 41 Grace 86 Flanner 88 Cavanaugh 95 Stanford 120 Morrlasey 128 Alumnl128 Pangborn 154  WOMEN Breen-Philllps 20 Pasquerllla Eut 32  NDIVIDUAL Men-David Broome 13:49 Women-Kerry Hagan 16:51 Off-Carlllua.Jeff Mackey 14:17  Gordon. safely, on the practice squad. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Signed Robbie Keen, punter. Placed Rickey Wattare, running back, on lhe practice squad. Waived Adam Wal<ar, running back, and Bran Wleae, guard, from tha practice squad. SEAffiE SEAHAWKS-Actlvated Kelly Stouffer, quarterback, and Jeff Chadwick. wide receiver. from Injured raaerve. Waived Ru&ty HNger, quartern.:k. Placed David Wyman, llnebacket-, on Injured reserve. Waived Derwin B,_,. wide recefver, from the praclloe IQUad.  



HEY FIGHTING IRISH 

Look Who's Got The Best Deals On Campus! 

Man cannot live by football alone. Call Domino's Pizza: 

NOTRE DAME  ST. MARY'S  
271-0300 1835 South Bend Ave.  289-0033 816 Portage Ave.  
. ... ..-------............. ­-~­ 


STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $699
ONE TOPPING 
ADDITIONAL
PIZZA SECOND PIZZA 
TOPPINGS
$4 MORE! AVAILABLE 
LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any otJ:ter offer. DeliveiY, area limited to_ens"!lre safe drivmg. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our dnvers are not penalized for late dehvenes. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE TWO SMALL 

PEPPERONI $599 
ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS


PIZZAS 
AVAILABLE OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY. LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. "be!ivery area limited to ensure safe d.rivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 



Eagles convinced that Green more than just 34 years old 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)-Roy Green has been asked about his age so often that the Philadelphia Eagles' wide re­ceiver is beginning to think his last name is 34. 
"Everybody talks about my age," said the 34-year-old Green, who signed with the Eagles last week and then caught six passes for 114 yards in a 23-14 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers. "Sooner or later people are going to stop putting emphasis on age. 
"All they have to do is look at George Foreman, Nolan Ryan, 
O.J. Anderson and James Lofton. Look at the individual's track record. Maybe it's be­cause the NFL has the biggest player turnover ratio in America, an average of four or five years." 
Green, in his 13th NFL sea­son, said people should look at the accomplishments and com­petitiveness of an athlete. 
The Gathering Voices Series Presents A Multicultural Film Festiva1 G1impse into the Wor1d of 
Women of Co1or·· Sept_ 25&.26 Carro]] 7-1 Op_m_ Sponsored by M.I.N_T. of SMC 
His statistics are impressive. Green has caught 534 passes for 8,724 yards, a 16.3 average, and 66 touchdowns. He started out as a kick returner and defensive back. He returned 84 kicks 1,932 yards (23-yard average). He tied the record of 106 yards for a kickoff"return. 
In 1981, Green became the first player in more than 30 years to catch a touchdown pass and intercept a pass in the same game. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
money to practice or contact Heidi at 283-4286. Admission for NDISMC students is $1. Schedules are available there. Free skate for students, •Spaces are available for the Sunday 
•Public skating Is now open at the J.A.C.C. 
faculty and staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday; evening aerobic class in the Rockne Memorial Wednesday, and Friday. 
from 9-10 p.m. Sign-up today in the RecSports office in the J.A.C.C. The cost is $10 for the entire 
semester. without hockey experience who can skate and is interested in playing should contact Molly at 283-•WVFI will braodcast the Notre Dame ­2685. 
•Women's Ice Hockey: Anyone with or 
Purdue game live from West Lafayette at 1:00 
p.m. on Saturday~ Tune into 640 AM as there will 
be no television coverage. 
•Varsity rowers: All money including dues 
($35) and Ohio ($45) are past due. Bring the 


Olympics 
continued from page 20 
America was tired of losing at the only sport in which it dominated internationally. So it pled to have NBA professionals allowed to participate in the Olympics. "Professionals from other countries play," whined the Americans, despite the fact that the reas,ons the United States was ' losing were numerous. 
The talent at American universities is consistently on a higher level than that on European club teams. However, the United States would still lose. Foreign teams won because they concentrated on the Olympics and other international play over urofessional nlav. Finally, American coaching was simply not geared for international play. John Thompson's failure to win a gold medal at Seoul was the biggest step toward NBA participation. With another, more flexible coach, it is likely that the United States would have put up more than a bronze-medal fight. 
The complaining of the Yankees, however, coupled with hopes of big American dollars from television, won the IOC over, and NBA professionals were voted eligible to play in the Olympics. 
The United States, therefore, will go to Barcelona and beat up on inferior competition, flexing its basketball muscle for all the world to see. 
Are we so insecure that we must not only beat up on smaller, poorer countries with 
guns, but also with Magic's behind-the-back passes and Jordan's jams? 
Did the United States not just come off of a tremendous ego boost eight months ago with Iraq's submission? Must we immediately show the world that we can not only shoot 'em up, but shoot the lights out as well? · 
As a country, we are preoccupied with our own success. The essential message of the Olympics, of people from the entire world coming together, forgetting their territorial and political differences, and taking part in two weeks of unadulterated athletic competition, has become lost as the United States sends a team of ringers to Barcelona to show that they can run 'n gun like no one else. 

•2 Medium Cheese Pizzas 
•One single order of Breadsticks • 2 Softdrinks 
--f!i •$10 plus tax 
Saint Mary's Colleg~ _ 
NOTRE DAME I NOlANA 
must show ND or SMC ID 

Expires October I,1991 Now Hiring 
Sophomore Forma1 
September 27 9p_m_-1 a.m. Dining Ha11 Tickets S1 0 On Sa1e Sept. 23-26 4:30-6:30 In Residence Halls 
Green said his performance Sunday against the Steelers was exciting because he had another chance to play. 
He's looking forward to Monday night's game against the Washington Redskins be­cause "you can't rest on your laurels. I know that especially because of what has happened to me in the last year." 
After playing 12 seasons with the Phoenix Cardinals, Green was traded to Cleveland for a 
·wHEN YOU WISH UPON A STAR' 

draft pick. He went to training camp with the Browns and was waived before the season. 
Green, 19th on the NFL all­time reception list, admits being cut put him in a state of shock. He also admits slowing up a step. "Yeah, I run in 4.5 instead of 4.4. How many can run 4.5?" 
Green said his experience, especially having played both offense and defense, gives him a big advantage. "I know what the defensive back is thinking," 

Crew 
continued from page 20 
4, according to senior president Pete Slamkowski. 
The predicted strength for this season's Irish Crew Team should be the Heavyweights, as Chappuie, Mike Bertin, Dave Mercurio, Curt Lindgren, and Joe Werner all return from last year's squad. 
"As for the lightweights, most graduated," said Chappuie. 
The squad will rebuild around a pair of junior returnees, Tim Sosnowski and Christian Dunbar. 
The ND Crew team will be under the direction of a new coach, Mike Brose, this season. 
"Last year's coach, John Stratton, will take on a more administrative position and assistant coach," commented Chappuie. 
Team captain Joe Werner spoke of the attributes of his new coach. "Coach Brose had a lot of experience in the sport and he communicates welL He has a lot more recent experience [than Stratton]." 


While the Irish are in Pittsburgh this weekend, Brose, an MIT engineering graduate in his fifties, will be competing at the Masters Championships in Austin, Texas this weekend. Also a current CEO for a local business, Brose hopes to establish a South Bend rowing club in the near future. 
The women's team hopes their daily 5 a.m. practices pay off this year. "Our Light-4 and Open-8 did really well last year [at the Head of the Ohio race]," said captain Terra Duffy. "We hope to do as well this go around." 
In addition to the Open-8, keyed by Trisha Coty and Amy Mehan, and the Light-4, which consists of Duffy, Megan Quail, Shannon Guiltinan, and Jennifer Retter, the Lady Irish will also enter an Open-4 shell. 
"Our fall season is pretty strong. We're especially excited about racing at the St. Charles [on October 20]," said Duffy. 
BE PREPARED TO BE IMPRESSED! WED: PENNY CUP NIGHT 
THURS: $1.00 TEAS I ·'-.... FRIISAT: $.75 SPECIALS ~NO COVER! 
WED:WVFI DJ, TIM MCADAM 
0 
stlldlum Q JACC 
0 
E I n 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 



MATHEMATICS OPEN HOUSE S~t-26
Sp_m_ 
Haggar Par]or 



SAVINGS THROUGHOUT OUR STORE WITH COUPONS ABOVE. THOUSANDS OF 



G>] 
56.99CASS/'10.99CD '6.99CASS/'10.99CD
HITS TO CHOOSE FROM INCLUDING THESE PICTURED TITLES. 
NO COUPON REQUIRED FOR PICTURED TITLES. 56.99CASS/'11.99 CD '7.99 CASS/'11.99CD 


AS LOW AS 
• FEATURES 
, BEATEN UP IN LOVE AGAIN -I WOULON'T KNOW YOU FROIITHE REST 

'7.99 CASS/'11.99 CD USE YOUR ILLUSION I & II 

-~~"~'~" ,., "'~' _._••• ·····~·""'''·'~''''~''''""'·""...''"'·''·'·''·'''·' •.•.~···"·''•'·"'•''""'·''•'·''·'·'....~no....................~.... ..,.,. .• ,...,.,.,,_,,,,,.,.,,, ••__..,••••.• , ••.•••••,,••••••••.•.•··,, ..... , ,,, ......., •• , •.••• , •••, ....""' •.• , ....... ,.,,, '·''·'·''·'·'·'·'''·'·''·'·'~'·'·'·''·'"'·'·•'·..,·'·'''·'·'"''·'·'""'·'..,·''~''·'•'' ...'·'''"...''•...,,.,................., EACH 17. 99 CASS/•12.99 CD ........,.•..... 
CASSETTE COMPACT DISC 


-
Mishawaka, 5784 N. Grape Road, 271-9715 • Sale Ends 9/28/91. 
T9109·043
~[11]-[d]

.,.,.,.,.,r..L:.---=----.,........-.--.._----------------------------------------' 


The Observer 
page 16 
Magic hurt by racial comments 
DETROIT (AP) -Magic Johnson has asked for the res­ignation of the school board member who described the NBA star as "a big, dumb black kid" during his school years in Lansing. 
William Carter made the statements during a Sept. 12 board meeting. He said he deeply regretted them, but added they were taken out of context and he will not resign. 
Johnson said Wednesday he and his family have been hurt by Carter's remarks. 
"Not only were his comments 
hurtful to myself and my family, 
but especially to the children of 
Lansing, Michigan, if not 
everywhere," Johnson said in a 
statement released by the 
Lakers. 
"I feel it is inappropriate and 
dangerous for a man with his 
ideas and feelings to be in such 
a powerful and influential pub­
lic position," Johnson said. 
"Should Mr. Carter choose not 
to resign, I would ask that the 
Lansing school board seek a recall election against him im­mediately." 
School board president Nancy Erickson reprimanded Carter in a letter Tuesday. She declined comment Wednesday on whether the board would ask for Carter's resignation. She said a decision could be made following a board meeting on Thursday. 
The district cannot initiate a recall effort because state law prohibits the use of public funds for such purposes, Erickson said. 
School board president Nancy 
Erickson reprimanded Carter in 
a letter Tuesday. Erickson was 
not immediately available for 
comment Wednesday. 
Carter, 66, said he was not 
surprised by Johnson's reaction. 
"If I was in Magic's shoes I 
guess I would say the same 
thing," he said Wednesday. 
"This is an embarrassment for 
his family. I've tried to apolo­
gize to everybody that I can 
conceivably think of. 
"It was a dumb thing to do, a poor choice of words." 
Carter's comments came as he argued for spending more money on athletic programs for sixth-, seventh-, and eighth­graders. 
Carter said he was trying to make the point that athletics help keep a lot of kids in school and interested in school, but "I tried to make my point in a dis­gustingly offensive way." 
"I was trying to explain that Earvin Johnson was a total success picture, a product of Lansing schools, and of elemen­tary, junior high and high school athletics," he said. 
Johnson attended high school 
in Lansing, and led nearby 
Michigan State to a national 
championship in 1979. 
School board member Adell Flourry Jr. said Carter should resign, as did the Lansing branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
Texas A&M freshman dies on practice field 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP) -James Glenn, a fresh­man kicker for Texas A&M, collapsed before practice Wednesday and died later at a College Station hospital, school officials said. 
Glenn, 19, a walk-on from Clear Creek High School in League City, was pronounced dead at 4:20p.m. at Humana Hospital-Brazos Valley, said Alan Cannon, Texas A&M's sports information director. 
"Words cannot describe the pain and sorrow felt by the football team, coaching staff and the entire Texas A&M fam­ily at the loss of this rme young man," coach R.C. Slocum said. "His family is in our thoughts and prayers." 
Cannon said Glenn, 5-feet-11 and 167 pounds, was "just loosening up" before practice when he collapsed. 
Coaches notified the univer­sity's health center and workers began administering car­diopulmonary resuscitation until an ambulance arrived. 
"James received immediate attention from the Texas A&M training staff," Dr. Jesse Parr, a team physician, said. 
"They were performing CPR just as soon as the young man dropped. Once he was in the ambulance, they continued try­ing to revive him. But he never regained consciousness," Cannon said. 
Cannon said there was no indication that there was any drug use involved. 
"The young man was one of 
•Budget 
airfares anyvvhere. 

•International 
studentairfares. 

•Railpasses 
issued here. 


~®®U(![)fln[])@i Subs, Burgers, Nachos, Cheese Fries,

-
•lntemat'lldentity 
cards. 

•Worldwide 
adventure tours. 

•Travel 
gear and guidebooks. 


Breadsticks, Pizza, and $~Q®@ Beverage Specials!Council Travel 
•Expert travel advice. 

the finest young men. He was a rme young man and there was never any indication that he would use drugs," Cannon said. 
An autopsy will be performed to determine the cause of death, he said. 
"James was a super young man," kicking coach John Pearce said. "His high school coach called us and told us he was an outstanding person, as well as an outstanding athlete. He was correct. James was a dedicated young man who set his goals and worked bard to achieve those goals. One of those goals was to kick for TexasA&M." 
Glenn had kicked off three times last week against Tulsa, but had not attempted a field goal or extra point. 
Most of the players hadn't yet reached the field Wednesday when Glenn was taken to the hospital. Slocum canceled prac­tice for the day, but the Aggies (1-1) are expected to play Saturday's game against Southwestern Louisiana as scheduled. 
• SENIOR CLASS II 
rrickets For Cubs Game on October 6 
tJ1t SriL& ';IJie S15.00 

at Information Desk in LaFortune Starting Sept. 30 



Thursday, September 26, 1991 


Smith back in action 
Higgs' job security in jeopardy 
MIAMI (AP) -Mark Higgs, the third leading rusher in the NFL and perhaps the Miami Dolphins' most pleasant surprise this season, rmds his job in jeopardy. 
Higgs stepped in when Sammie Smith, Miami's top running back the past two years, sustained a sprained left knee Aug. 10. Smith missed the first four games but rejoined practice Monday and is eligible to come off injured reserve for Sunday's game against the Jets in New York. 
"I'm not saying I expect to come in and just take over, because Mark has done a real good job," Smith said Wednesday. "But at the end of the last year I felt I was one of the best in the league. I just want to get back in there and pick up where I left off." 
Smith said he's rusty and out of shape, but the knee feels good. A decision on whether to activate him for the Jets game will be made later this week. 
With Smith's return pending, he and Higgs are wondering how coach Don Shula will parcel out playing time. Shula himself isn't sure. 
"We're going to have to see," he said. The 5-foot-7 Higgs, a fourth-year pro with only one 
career start before this season, has made a strong case for staying in the lineup. He topped 100 yards in the flrst two games and now has 371 yards in 94 carries for a 
3.9 average. Shula absolved him of blame for the team's problems on offense the past two games. 
But Higgs sounds almost eager for a reduced role. 
"We have a double threat in the backfield now. We'll probably rotate in and out, and it'll keep us both a lot fresher," Higgs said. "I just want to get a chance to run the ball, like, 10 times a game. That would be OK with me." 
Smith, however, would prefer not to share playing time. He averaged 15 carries a game in his first two seasons and likes a heavy workload. 
"I feel like I'm better when I'm constantly in there and getting the ball, rather than sitting out a series and not really getting into the flow of the game," Smith said. 
Higgs, signed by Miami as a free agent, has won the affection of Dolphin fans with his slashing running style. Smith, by contrast, was a first-round draft pick in 1989 who has struggled to meet high expectations. 
Success can be a matter of making the right connections • 
Reporting & Writing 0 Magazine Publishing 0 Broadcast Journalism 0 
Newspaper Management 0 The new curriculum 0 in Integrated Advertising I Marketing Communications 
Make a connection. A Medill representative will be at St. Mary's/Notre Dame 
October 3 Or call1/708/491-5228. 
Medill School of Journalism Graduate Programs Northwestern University 


Thursday, September 26, 1991 The Observer page 17 

Braves, Reds split doubleheader; Twins need three to clinch 
ATLANTA (AP) -The Atlanta finally won against a contender, 1975. homer that capped a six-run Braves wound up a wild day routing the error-prone Los Houston is 37-41 at the rally in the fifth Inning. that included Delon Sanders' Angeles Dodgers. Astrodome with three games The Blue Jays began the day return and two arrests by The loss cut Los Angeles' lead left. The Astros had most with a two-game lead in the AL splitting two to-Inning games In the NL West to 1 V2 games consecutive winning marks at East over Boston, which was with Cincinnati. over Atlanta. home In the majors. rained out of a twl-night 
The Braves, who began the doubleheader at Baltimore. day two games behind NL West­Phlllles5, Cubs 4 Expos 7, cardinals 2 Boston's doubleheader was loading Los Angeles, won the CHICAGO -John Kruk drove rescheduled for Thursday, an
ST. LOUIS -Rookie Brian

doubleheader opener 2-1 on in five runs with a pair of off-day for the Blue Jays. 
Barnes scattered 10 hits in hisRon Gant's double, but lost the homers, including his third 

first complete game of thesecond one 10-9 when their career grand slam, as 

White Sox 6, Twins 1 
season, leading the Montrealtwo-run rally In the final Inning Philadelphia edged Chicago on Expos over the St. Louis MINNEAPOLIS Scottfell short. a windy day at Wrigley Field. 

Cardinals. Fletcher drove In two runs withThe Braves won the opener 2-Tommy Greene (13-7) won his Barnes (5-6), a 23-year-old adouble and sacrifice fly,

1. fourth consecutive start, 
lefthander, struck out seven and leading an early onslaught from Atlanta's day started when allowing three runs and five walked none. He lost a bid for the bottom of Chicago's order asrookies Brian Hunter and Keith hits In six innings. Mitch his first career shutout in the the White Sox kept MinnesotaMitchell were arrested on Williams got three outs for his ninth on Tom Pagnozzi's RBI from clinching a tie for the ALdrunken driving charges In 30th save, setting a club record groundout and a run-scoring West.

separate, early-morning for saves by a left-bander. AI 
wild pitch. Things still look bleak for theIncidents. They both returned to Holland set the previous record White Sox, who trail the Twinsthe team in time to play In the In 1984. 

by eight games with 10 to play.

first game. 
Minnesota's magic number
Blue Jays 7, Angels 2 Giants 2, Astros 1 
remains three. 
Padres 8, Dodgers 2 ANAHEIM, Calif. -Toronto
HOUSTON -John Burkett increased its AL ·East lead to 2SAN DIEGO -Andy Benes pitched six strong innings and 
Rangers 7, Mariners 1 
1/2 games Wednesday, beating won his lOth straight decision, the San Francisco Giants beat the California Angels 7-2 as SEATTLE -Nolan Ryan (12­Fred McGriff hit his 30th home Houston, ensuring the Astros' John Olerud hit a three-run 6) gave up one run and threerun and the San Diego Padres first losing home record since 







EYY 
'' •• LOOKIN' FOR SOME ACTION? 


TH~ FIGHTING -IRISH 
Thursday, September 26 
Men's Soccer vs. Indiana Hoosiers 

7:30 pin, School Field 
School Field is located on Eddy Street Less than 1 mile south of ND campus 
The Athletic Department has arranged for a FREE Shuttle Bus to transport 
hits in eight Innings for his 314th victory and tied Gaylord Perry for 13th on the career list, four behind Phil Nlekro. 
Athletics 8, Royals 4 
OAKLAND, Calif. -On the afternoon after Oakland was eliminated from the AL West race, Rickey Henderson and Mike Gallego homered and Bob Welch (12-12) allowed five hits in 6 2-3 innings, ending his four-game losing streak. 
Indians 6, Tigers 4 
DETROIT -Doug Jones remained perfect as a starting pitcher, helping Cleveland beat Detroit. Jones (4-7), the Indians' career saves leader, was making his third major-league start. He gave up 10 hits, walking one and striking out five in seven-plus innings. 
Yankees 8, Brewers 6 
MILWAUKEE -Roberto Kelly hit a three-run homer in the 11th inning to lift New York over Milwaukee. The Brewers 
tied the score with two runs in the bottom of the ninth, including Greg Vaughn's 25th homer. 
Guatemalan Imports •Vests ·Shirts •Hooded Bajas •Fanny Packs •Beaded Jewelry and a variety of hats, belts, purses, barrettes & headbands. Traditional Indian Clothing & much, much more! Sept 23-28 10 am· Spm 
LaFortune Sorin Room 
ANEW FILM"'BY'"JANE CAMPION AVENUE 
\ 
students to and from the Main Circle and School Field beginning at 7:00pm. Cinema_; at the Snlte 
Friday and Saturday 
7:30,9:45 ... ·..... 
page 18 The Observer Thursday, September 26, 1991 
FSU's Buckley not impressed with Howard 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) -It seems everyone is impressed with Michigan split end Desmond Howard. Everyone except Terrell Buckley. 
But that's to be expected. Buckley is a cornerback for Florida State. It will be his job to stop Howard on Saturday when the No. 1 Seminoles (3-0) meet the No. 3 Wolverines (2­0). 
"I face receivers as good as Desmond Howard every day in practice," Buckley said this week. MI look forward to taking on players like that. We'll both lace on our shoes and go out on the field and see who's the best." 
There is no doubt that Buckley believes those words. That's part of the mind-game between receivers and their de­fenders. But practice plays don't count like the ones Howard has made in games. 
Howard has six of Michigan's seven offensive touchdowns. He ran for one, returned a kickoff 93 yards for one and caught four TD passes, including that heart-stopping finger-tip grab that buried Notre Dame. 
"He just amazes me every day, even if it's at practice," said Elvis Grbac, the Wolverines quarterback. "He comes up with big plays, plays that you haven't seen. That's what's special about Desmond Howard. He expects a lot of good things out of himself." 
More often than not, he suc­
ceeds. , 
"I realize that week in and week out I have to keep proving myself," Howard said. "Come Saturday, the Notre Dame game will be irrelevant. I'm now in the same situation Klingler was in when everybody was talking about him until the Miami game, when his stock went down." 
That doesn't mean Howard wouldn't like to win the Heisman Trophy. It's just that he has other priorities. 
"The thing about Desmond is that he doesn't just sit down and say, 'I want to win the Heisman, "' Grbac said. MHe just wants to win ballgames. He doesn't care about the individ­ual aspect. And at the end of the season, if things work out all right for him, that's great." 
It's difficult to win the Heisman Trophy at Michigan because the team is emphasized over individuals. Tom Harmon, in 1940, is the only Wolverine to win a Heisman. It's also difficult for a receiver. 
Since the award was first given in 1935, only four re­ceivers have ever won the Heisman -Yale's Larry Kelley (1936), Notre Dame's Leon Hart (1949), Nebraska's Johnny Rodgers (1972) and Notre Dame's Tim Brown (1987). 
Part of the reason for that is defenders like Buckley. Tripp Welborne, who was an All­American safety a year ago at Michigan, has tried to help Howard understand that. 
"Just as he made his name off other defensive backs, they'll want to make their names off him," Welborne said. MNot only will they try to stop him, they'll try to embarrass him and get recognition for themselves by doing it. That's why, just as hard as it is to get there, it's hard to stay there." 
Howard accepts that, like he accepts most other things in life: with keen interest and an open mind. 
Off the field, he is very inter­ested in Black history. He is often outspoken on the subject. 
"As a Black individual grow­ing up, you're not really taught about yourself in schools," Howard said. "I can't recall a person who I learned about in school who is greater than Nelson Mandela in terms of personal beliefs and something he stood up for. Now, he was in jail for 27 years. I'm only 21. So he was in jail before I went to school. But I never learned about him." 
Howard and Grbac both went to Cleveland St. Joseph, an all­male Catholic high school. 
After college, and after what promises to be a lucrative NFL career, Howard wants to hold his own seminars. He plans to earn a graduate degree in soci­ology, then hit the nationwide lecture circuit. He already visits Ann Arbor schools, using his athletic success as the hook. 
~HOPPIN CHUMLEY H e 
II 
MARK, AL & JAME 


Refrigerator keeps his door shut this fall 
CHICAGO (AP) -William 
Perry is keeping as  low a  
profile  as  possible  for  a  
refrigerator.  

"I just want to be left alone," the Chicago Bears' defensive lineman says in explaining why he has been ducking reporters this year. 
Perry weighed in at 370 pounds for training camp in July, about 50 pounds heavier than coach Mike Ditka would have liked. But the Fridge is playing well again, with 23 tackles, one sack and a blocked field goal in the first four games. 
MI'm having a lot of fun this year," Perry said on Ditka's television show on Sunday. 
Ditka said Perry has a lot of competition for sacks from the other members of the front four-Richard Dent, Steve McMichael and Trace Armstrong, now on injured reserve for four weeks. 
MThey get real jealous when he makes a sack," Ditka said. "He gets to razz McMichael, Armstrong and Dent." 
Nobody is saying how much Perry weighs now, but a good 
guess probably would be around 350. 
MI work on my weight every day. I get up at 4 or 5 o'clock and go over to Halas Hall and work out an hour or two before anybody gets over there, just trying to get it on down," Perry said. 
Ditka said he's impressed with Perry's effort in the weight and fitness room in suburban Lake Forest. 
MYou won't believe this, but he's there on the Stairmaster for an hour at 5:30 or 6 o'clock every morning," Ditka said, referring to a mechanical stair-climbing simulator. "Even though his weight is up, he's built up strength in his legs and that's the reason for his endurance he's shown this season." 
After alternating last season with McMichael and Dan Hampton, Perry has been playing almost full-time this year. 
Ditka still is thinking of using Perry again as a fullback on the goal-line unit, where his national popularity blossomed. 
Start Your Paralegal Career at Loyola University 
• American Bar Association-approved program • • Post-baccalaureate curriculum • • Day and evening classes Mondays through Thursdays • 
Representative on Campus Thursday, October 3, 3-5:30 PM (Showcase of Careers, Reignbeaux Lobby, LeMans Hall) 
Call (708)853-3070 for further information, or write Institute for Paralegal Studies, Loyola University, · 1041 Ridge Road, Wilmette, IL 60091 

**************************************************** 
SYSTEMS RECRUITING 
Representatives of the Systems Division of Eli Lilly and Company will be 
on campus on: Thursday, September 26th 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation th"at develops, manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a Fortune SOO company and has maintained record sales and earnings for 30 consecutive years.• The company conducts operations in more than 130 countries. Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
The Lilly systems organization offers analysts the opportunity to develop and maintain business and scientific systems in a multi-vendor environment that utilizes the technologies of IBM, DEC, Apple, Hewlett-Packard, and Cray. 
Take advantage of the opportunity to discuss your future in the information systems field. 
G/obsl lnlonuation 




Srstems 

-
~ 
***************** 

Uf!coming Events 
Constructions ol Reason: A Conference on the Work ol Onora O"Nelll and "Explorations ot Kant·s Practical Philosophy" . Hoob"'llh Center AudKorium 
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 27 
3:00 p.m. Official Welcome 
John Attlnaalo, Reoan DlrectOf, Kroc lnsth!Ae 
3:30 p.m. -Session I On O'Neill on Kant Speaker: Thorn.. Pogge, Co4umbla Commentator: Clvtatlna Koregaard, Harvard: Chair: Kart Ameriks, NO 
1:00 p.m. -SestJon II Theories ol Juatlcefll'lldilions of Vb1ue Speaker: Onon O'Neill, Essex CommentatOf: W. David Solomon. NO; Chair· Marcil Baron, Illinois 
SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 21 
1:30 a.m. -Session Ill How to Act on Principle 
Speaker: RUdiger Bittner, Yale Commentatoc Stephen Derwall, Michigan: Chair Michie! DePaul, NO 
1:30 p.m.-Session IV Rights In a Virtues-Based Moral Theory 
Speaker· Jorge Garcia. Georgetown 
Commentator. Barbara Herman. USC; Chair: Jane Kneller, Colorado State 
4:00 p.m. -Session V Panel Discussion Leader Alasdair Macintyre, Notre Dame Panel: Shelly Kagan. lllinois·Chicago Circle; Philip Quinn. NO; Thomat E. Hill, Jr.. North Carolina 
8:00p.m. -Session VI Concrete Construction: Utitude & Specification Speaker· Henry Shue, Cornell Commentator: James Sterba. NO, Cha1r Nancy Sherman, Georgetown 
Cosponsored by the Department of PMosophy and the Kroc Institute 

The Observer page 19 

-

JAY HOSLER CALYit All» HOBBES BILL WAffiRSON
SPB.liiCER M£Er .:nM .J"111 .rvsr 
n\E f>.Lit."''S ~ M\tAD !
ThE t>.UENS ~ GMNING
FUPI't:O titS NOODLt:. 
SPIFF 'S\-1\ITS Bt\<J:. ll'ffi:J ANIMAL l?lmlt1:5t!>flkii'­
ON OJR \.\£.Rcl! IN t>.
FoR.YeARs tit3£1~ 
f~'llt>.RD, '*ID NQS\Yt:S
S\lRI'RISt:. ~Q'It.., SI'~CB-\1*\ 
IN6! TI!ERE IS NOilf/t
HteRIIRCiiY"'IJ!+ICH 
R-ACeS (YlAN !IT m1bP. 
Carl "Javahead" Jones and his chopped espresso maker. 


CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
Thursday 
3 p.m. Cross Country Meet. Burke Golf Course.

ACROSS 25 Actress Bo 57 Nat1ves of Apia 27 Out-and-out so Continuously
1 Circle parts 
blow on a flute 3:30 p.m. Seminar, "Parameter Estimation and Determining
31 Emulate Mopsy 5 Sweet red w1ne 

61 Felix Adler, e.g ,..,..-+--+--+-4----l Weight Matrices for Simulations of Transient, Three-Dimensional
34 We1rd

9 "Now we Ground-Water Flow Systems," Dr. Mary Hill, U.S. Geological
62 Charge too

be long I" 36 "Brown-." 
much for Survey, Water Resources Division, Denver, Co. Room 214, Cushing 

Maugham Jagger h1t 
65 " and fell-Hall. Sponsored by Civil Engineering.

14 Humble 37 Of grandparents th1eves "·Luke 
15 Buckeye State 39 Bell sounds 
1030 5:30 p.m. Minority Engineering Program mixer, to welcome 
41 .. -Kelly's

16 One wtth a long 66 Shade of green freshman minority engineering and geological sciences intents.
Blues," Cahn· sentence 

217 Cushing HalVEngineering Student Lounge. 
67 EternallyHe1ndorf song

17 Bla1r --·-of "I A Law·· 42 A ktng of Judea 68 Parsonage 
7 p.m. Reception for CAPP, MIS, MCC, SCCP, Computer
69 Morays44 Fasteners19 Concur 

Engineering students interested in discovering career op­
70 Sun. talks46 Female rabbtt 20 Fretted 

portunities with Eli Lilly Corporation (Information Systems). Notre 
47 Reply21 Poe and 

Dame Room, Morris Inn. Sponsored by Career and Placement 

Chrtst1e. e g 49 Avon family DOWN 
Services. 

23 Jew1sh ascet1c 51 CeltiC priesthood 1 Entertainof yore member 
7:30 p.m. Concert. "Amy Grant." JACC Arena.
2 Leases 

24 F1ne silk 53 Roman off1c1al 3 Surrenders 
8 p.m. Film, "Flatliners." Preprofessional movie night. 184
4 Slanted 5 Like most perukes 6 Exclamation of surprise 
4 p.m. Lecture on Postmodernism and Contemporary European 

7 A Brazilian coffee 
54 Chaucerian stew Culture, "By Whose Authorities?" by James Collins. Room C-103 
a TV morn1ng 24 Peeled 38 Inside items of 
information Workaholrc's Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg 
show 26 Greek goddess 55 
40 Aylesbury comeuppance Institute, Committee for European Studies, the Departments of
9 Some roofers or of discord 
apparitions Looks askance History, Government and International Studies, Sociology, Art
critics 
28 Matured 56
43 Upset; madden History, Communication and Theatre, Economics, English,10 Bigwig 
29 Western alliance 45 Search 57 Confidence Romance Languages and literature, Music, and Philosophy, the 
11 Kind of ha1rdo 
30 Kind of sparrow Intrusively game School of Architecture, Hesburgh Library, and Saint Mary's College. 
12 -----do-well or swallow 48 Operate sa--mater 
13 Very. 1n 
31 Sunken fence 50 Nocturnal 59 Mullins of 4:15 p.m. American Catholic Studies Seminar, "Religion Among 
Versailles 32 Baking chamber noises comics America's Elite: Persistence and Change in the Protestant 
18 Actress Taylor 52 "The Lord our 
Establishment," James Davidson, Purdue University. Hesburgh
33 Golf scores God_ Lord": 63 Compete 22 Fiddler-crab 
Library Lounge. Sponsored by Cushwa Center. 
genus 35 Mild oath Deut 6:4 64 Building wing 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Search for the Electric Dipole Moment of Electron," Eugene Commins, University of California Berkley. Room 118. Niewland Science Hall. Sponsored by the Physics Department. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Yankee Pot Roast Turbot Almondine Cheese Ravioli 
fi~E 

fiT [IJ5HinE filJ[)IT£liHIJm 



RETURN OF 1HE 
T[]m[]fHHlW 




JEDI 
fr 1£1:3£1 f.m. 
fiiJmi~~Hlll: $~ 


,--­
-· Sports 
page 20 Thursday, September 26, 1991 

Pendergast clowns his way into opponents' sights 
Irish junior forward has led team in goals for two years; always a threat to score for Berticelli 
BY DAN PIER Sports Writer 
Kevin Pendergast takes things lightly off the soccer field. 
"Most of the guys would tell you I'm a clown," he said. "The freshmen probably thought I had a screw loose when they frrst met me." 
But when the junior forward suits up for the Irish, it's all business. His on-field intensity has made Pendergast a vital part of the soccer program in his first two years. 
"Kevin's greatest asset is his intensity," said coach Mike Berticelli. "He is a very moti­vated player with a high level of commitment to winning." 
or course, intensity alone doesn't make a quality soccer player. Thanks to great speed and a powerful shot, Pendergast has led the team in goals over the last two years. 
His seven goals last year tied him for the team lead with Kenyon Meyer, while he was tops on the Irish with twelve goals as a freshman. 
Things might be more difficult for Pendergast this season, though, as opponents will be well prepared to defend against him. He has scored just once in Notre Dame's first five games. But Pendergast doesn't seem all that worried. 
"I hope to put the ball in the back of the net more often," he said. "I don't think I'll keep scoring one goal in five games." 
Berticelli's feelings mirror those of his star forward. In fact, he expects improvement from Pendergast over last year. 
"Kevin is always a threat to score. He has tremendous po­tential, which he will reach with more experience as a front runner in our system," said the coach, who installed a new of­fense just last year, his first at 

Senior midfielder Kenyon Meyer avoids the slide tackle. The Irish hope to keep their footing this weekend against Indiana. 

Crew travels to Pittsburgh to begin 1991 campaign 
ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Crew team plunges into the '91 fall season this weekend, traveling to the Head of the Ohio race in Pittsburgh. 
Junior Lou Chappuie explained Notre Dame's training process in preparation for the race. 
"The first week of school we had conditioning'-running and aerobics. The next week we were on the water, rowing six days a week. We also had two work-outs last Sunday." 
While the team hopes their hard work will pay off in Pittsburgh, Chappuie admitted some anxiousness. 
"We don't really have any clear expectations," he said. "We obviously hope to win, but we simply need more water time." 
The fall season for crew involves the head race, "which is an endurance race, two and a half to three and a half miles in range, with a staggered start," said Chappuie. 
The spring season races, on the other hand, are short and quick 2000 meter sprints. 
Chappuie elaborated on more technical goals of development 
"We'll focus on the techniques of rowing cleanly and learning how to apply power," he said. 
Last year, the team's performance at the Head of the Ohio race showed promising signs of development. The Light-8 shell finished second, just ahead of Cornell, a national rowing powerhouse. 
The Head of the Ohio traditionally features strong teams from the East Coast, the Midwest, and the South RElgion. Schools represented range from Georgetown, Cornell, Virginia, and Pitt, to schools from Miami, Orlando and Tampa Bay. 
This year, the Irish will enter the Heavy-8, two Heavy-Fours, a Ught-4, a Club-8 and a Club-
see CREW/page14 

indication of this year," he said. "We outshot them 19 to 6. We just need to be more offensive minded, and I need to con­tribute by being a little more hungry around the net. The de­fense has not been a problem." 
Pendergast spoke of his own situation as well as the team's when he said, "Once the goals start coming, everything seems a lot easier." 
Although last year was diffi­cult for Pendergast and the whole team, he gained valuable 
Kevin Pendergast experience. He feels he is more mentally ready for this season. Notre Dame. "I'm a little more comfortable 
Pendergast also looks for the with my role. As a freshman, Irish to improve as a team after you're not expected to con­last year's 4-11-3 record. Notre tribute much as far as getting Dame's start (2-2-1) isn't quite everyone fired up," he said. what he hoped for, but "Last year, the whole team's at­Pendergast believes things are titude was down because we looking up. were losing. My attitude now is 
"I hope our game against probably better than it has been Evansville on Sunday, even the last two years." though we tied them, will be an And, as one of only four up­perclassmen starting, Pendergast will need that good attitude. He must be a leader as well as a scorer. 

If the past is a good indicator, Pendergast should have no problem filling both of those roles. He compiled an impres­sive resume both on and otT of the athletic field at Simsbury High in Connecticut. 
A soccer All-American, Pendergast was also honored as a Connecticut Scholar-Athlete and participated in Student Government and the National Honor Society. He has continued his record of success here at Notre Dame. 
"Kevin is a tremendous stu­dent as well," Berticelli said. "He is very competitive both in the classroom and on the field. He is a fine representative of Notre Dame." 
Even when he's just clowning around. 

Men's soccer faces ninth-ranked Hoosiers 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
After holding their opponents scoreless for three consecutive games, the Notre Dame men's soccer team will put their 2-2-1 record on the line tonight against ninth-ranked Indiana at South Bend's School Field. 
Shutout wins over Central Michigan and Michigan State as well as a scoreless tie against Evansville have given the young Irish team confidence, but they will have to convert more of their scoring opportunities to be successful against the Hoosiers. In the last two games, the Irish offense has collected 36 shots, but only one goal, while the defense has held the opposition to just nine shots. 
"Our defense hasn't been scored on in over 300 minutes," said senior co-captain Kenyon Meyer, "so the key to I.U. is that somebody will have to step forward and put in a goal or two." 
Meyer leads the Irish this season with 21 shots on goal, but he has yet to score while junior Kevin Pendergast, who is next with 13 shots, has netted only one goal in 1991. If they continue to create those scoring opportunities against the Hoosiers, the Irish should come out on top. 
Defensively, the Irish are ex­pected to continue their stifling play. Senior co-captain Brett Hofmann and junior Mario Tricoci anchor the defense, which has allowed only 41 shots on goal in the first five games of the season. Freshman goalie Bert Bader has been equally impressive this season, collecting 20 saves on the way to an impressive 0.56 goals against average. 
In order to continue their dominance, however, the Irish defense will have to stop Hoosier star Todd Yeagley, who has netted seven goals and three assists in 1991. Indiana's top returning scorers Wane Lobring and Blake Rodgers will also be focal points of the Irish defense. Much of the rest of the 1991 Indiana team, however, will be visiting South Bend for the first time tonight. 

"They're a different team from last year," Meyer com­mented. "They have a lot of first year players." 
Those first year players will pose some problems for the Irish, but Notre Dame's rookies will pose some problems for the Hoosiers also. As many as eight ' freshmen have been in the starting lineup for the Irish and 12 have seen action this season. Despite their inexperience, however, they have proven their ability to play on the collegiate level against some of the na­tion's top teams. 
Indiana has dominated the series, which began in 1978. In 12 meetings, the Hoosiers have collected ten wins against only one loss and one tie. The lone Irish victory was a 4-3 decision in 1987. 

The fall of Olympic basketball 
Last weekend, after --------­Notre Dame Saturday had ended, NBC 
broadcast another anticlimactic piece of television. However, the announcement of ten members of the 1992 United States Olympic Team was not only disappoint­ing because of its predictability and lifelessness, but because of the -----------------­excitement with which America views this assembly of basketball's all-time superstars. 
In fact, the team representing the United States will play in games that are anything but exciting. When Magic, Michael and Company defeat China 100-24, who will watch the second halt'? When Karl Malone charges down the court to dunk over Nigeria's second-string center, will there be any real thrill? When Chuck Daly's hair is in place after 10 games, 10 victories and 10 blowouts, will America's need to win rmally be fulfilled? 
The United States didn't lose an international basketball game until an infamous three seconds were replayed against the Soviet Union in Munich in 1972, some 80 years after James Naismith invented the game in Springfield, Mass. 

That loss to the USSR was but the first in a long series of disappointments for American basketball. The United States has not won any of the last five international competitions in which it has competed. The 1987 and 1991 Pan American Games, 1988 Olympics, 1989 World Championships, and 1990 Goodwill Games were all won by countries other than the U. S., including former basketball powerhouses Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union. 
There is little doubt that the team assembled · to compete for the U.S. would easily beat even the most experienced international teams. However, those teams no longer even exist. Lithuania, the homeland of several members of the 1988 gold medal-winning Soviet national team, has been granted athletic sovereignty by the International Olympic Committee, splitting the former Soviet team in half. Yugoslavia, also once dominant on the world scene, is split by civil war. A unified Yugoslavia is doubtful for Barcelona. 
With those obstacles out of the way, any team of college all-stars would likely cruise to the gold medal, even with John Thompson as coach. Sending this overgrown NBA all-star team to Barcelona to show the rest of the world who is the basketball boss is like treating the common cold with chemotherapy. 
see OLYMPICS/page 14 












