


News Writer 
"All homosnxual activity is 
immoral," Fatlwr John llarvny 
said in a talk on Tunsday night 
titlPd "Tiw llomosnxual J>prson 
and Catholic Moral Teaching." 
llomosnxuality is defined by 
promirwnt psychologists as "a 
prndominant adult prnfnrence 
for pPrsons of orw 's own sex, of 
coursP involving an attraction 
to person's of orw 's own sex," 
llarwy said. 
llarvPy idnntifind thn thren 
kinds of homosnxuality: some 
homosnxuals arl' only attraetnd 
to pnopln of tlwir own sex; 
somP manifnst homosexual at­
traction and activity but hav!l 
"dPnpm disordnrs;" and some 
arP lPmporary homosexuals 
who think tlwy art! homosPxual 
for a short JWriod of limn. 
WlwrP dons homosexuality 
conu• from'! 
"I don't know," llarvey said. 
lin assnrtnd that the homosnx­
ual condition itsPlf is not im­
moral. although the tendency 
is objnctivnly disordered and 
harmful. llarvey rPferred to 
scripturn and the "law writtnn 
on all human !warts" as the 
pillars of his thesis. 
lloly SeripturP and Church trHu·.hing mpnatndly affirm the importance of heterosexual unity, love and procreation, llarwy said. Tlw c;nnesis story rnvrHtls thn complementary quality of men and women to Padr otlwr. lw explained. Adam and t·:vr! havn a son. further dnmonstrating tlw importance of tlw man, woman and child n•lationship. 
Tlw New Testanwnt afl1rms this mPssage of family, accord­ing to Harvey. Speaking on a quPstion regarding divoree, llarvny said that Christ con­firms tlw meaning of "genital 
intPrr~oursn." 
Gates voted head of CIA by Senate 
S WASHINGTON (;\P) -The Senate on Tuesday overwhelm­ingly confirmed Robert Gates as head of the Central Intelligence Agency following a six-month ordeal that laid bare painful disputes within the spy agency. 
The vote was 64 to 31, a strong margin d!lspite the taint of the Iran-Contra affair that clung to Gates through much of the confirmation hearings and charges that he tailored intelli­gence reports to suit the politi­cal views of Reagan adminis­tration higher-ups. 
Backed by a solid phalanx of Hepublicans, Gates benefited from a split within Democratic ranks to survive the longest and most controversial ap­proval process ever for a CIA nominee. 
Confirmation also reversed the sharpest setback in the ca­reer of Gates, whose swift rise up the CIA ladder was stymied in 19X7 when President Reagan 
see GATES I page 5 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Great ball of ice 
Christ asserts the meaning of human sexuality stating that man and woman become "two in one flesh" through sexual in­tercourse, said llarvey. 
llarvey also said the "the law written on every human heart" points to the immorality of ho­mosexuality. No true physical union can be attained in homo­sexual acts, he explained. True physical union is only attainable br.twmm a man and a woman, llarvr,y said. 
Engaging in homosr.xual ac­tivity is to "violate the body," according to llarvey. lie said that the body is as much a part of one's human nature as the soul and that the "body must be treated with the same respect as the soul." The body must not be used in such a way that it violates its purpose, said llarvey. 
"Homosexual activity is im­moral bHcause it does not fulfill the man/woman permanent child relationship imprinted on our human nature and revealed by God," llarv!ly said. 
Harvey encourages homosex­uals to live a chaste life. He emphasized the importance of exchanging homosexual genital activity for a more valuable en­deavor, such as intimate friendships with members of both sexes. 
"God gave us the grace to do whatever we have to," thus, homosexuals can appeal to a greater power to help change their orientation or live a chaste life, said Harvey. 
Harvey has been actively in­volved in the pastoral care of homosexual men and women for the past 35 years. 
In addition to extensive writ­ing regarding the morality and pastoral issues related to ho­mosexuality, Harvey directs "Courage," a nationwide sup-
see HARVEY I page 4 The icy Peace Memorial symbolizes the arrival of frigid winter temperatures which have hit South Bend and seem to be here to stay. 

Billionaire discovered drowned 
MADRID, Spain (AP)-Robert Maxwell, the flamboyant billionaire who built a global publishing empire, was found dead Tuesday in waters off the Canary Islands. He reportedly fell from his 180-foot luxury yacht. 
The death of the 68-year-old publisher ended the reign of a contentious press baron who battled press unions, barked out orders in one of eight lan­guages and bullied editors as he built a $2 billion media con­glomerate. 
The Czechoslovak-born Maxwell, who escaped the Holocaust and immigrating to Britain in 1940, personally ran the empire. His death has raised questions about the fu-
Kernan re-elected mayor of South Bend 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Associate News Editor 

South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan was re-elected yes­terday, defeating republican challenger Sylvia Shelton at the polls. 
''I'm delighted and pleased that we have won," said Kernan, a dem()(~rat. "I think that this is a team that will do well." 
According to final unoffi­cial figures, 21,092 voters turned out. Kernan took 16, 134 votes (76 percent), while Shelton received 4,958 votes (24 percent). 
Voter turnout was rela­tively low as a result of the cold weather, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
"I just want to wake up tomorrow, " Kernan said. ''I'm glad it (the campaign) is over. I can't wait to go back to work." 
The mayor said that he wants to continue to foster good and relations with the Notre Dame students and community. 
"I want to build on what has been done over the past four years," he said. Among his goals are providing new opportunities for citizens and making people feel good about South Bend, he added. 
This will be Kernan's sec­ond term as mayor. 
Shelton was disappointed that she did not receive more support from republican~domi nate d precincts, according to Jim Considine, republican city chairman. 
"She's terribly disap· pointed," he said, "She thought she ran a campaign that deserved better sup­port." 
Republican incumbent Robert Beutter won the race for Mishawaka mayor, receiving 6,550 votes {67 percent} to democratic chal­lenger George Heiner's 3,166 votes (33 percent). 
WEDNESDAY , NOVEMBER 6, 1991 


rejected as unrealistic." 
British Prime Minister John Major called Maxwell "a great character who will be missed." 
"Maxwell was a passionate friend of Israel and we are sorry about this heavy tragedy," Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said. "God bless his memory." 
In the last chapter of his ca­reer, he was accused by an in­vestigative journalist of having


RoberT Maxwell 
close links with the Israeli se­ture of his debt-burdened hold­cret service Mossad, a chargeings, which include New York's he denied. 

Daily News. 
His family identified the body

"He was larger than life," 
late Tuesday, rescue officials

British Conservative Party 
said.

lawmaker Anthony Beaumont­Maxwell's body was found 20Dark said. "He was the Citizen miles northwest of Grand Ca-Kane of his time. If you wrote a 
see MAXWELL I page 7

film about his life it would be 
Coup failure examined 

By CARA ECKMAN 
News Writer 
Citizen activism played a role in the August coup in the Soviet Union only because coup lead­ers did not recognize that peo­ple's power "had become a new social, cultural, and political force," said Ruben Apresyan of the Moscow Center for the Ethics of Nonviolence. 
Factors which were most significant to the coup's failure were the passivity of the Soviet army, the divisions among the top members of the political hierarchy, and especially the careless decisions of the coup leaders, Apresyan suggested during his lecture Thesday. 
"The organizers of the coup did everything possible not to have a success," he said. 
The Soviet press has at­tributed the failure to the influ­ence of people's power and re­sistance, according to Apresyan. 
Civil disobedience as it is commonly understood is dis­obedience to some political or governing authority, he said. This was not, however, the case during the August coup since according to Apresyan, "there were no strikes; there was no support in the typical form of civil disobedience." 
Because the decrees of Rus­sian President Boris Yeltsin le­gitimized the people's resis­tance, it can not be considered a pure example of civil disobe­dience, asserted Apresyan. 
Additionally, the widespread. passive non-cooperation within the Soviet army limited the op­position experienced by the people's resistance, he ex­plained. 
Apresyan further suggested that that coup leaders erred in allowing the continuation of press activity, which encour­aged the growth of people's re­sistance. "It is a puzzle to me why the coup leaders called for a close of the democratic press but did very little to stop other press activity," said Apresyan. 
Another mistake made by the coup leaders was their failure to arrest Yeltsin, who became a symbolic leader for the people's resistance, he said. 
"They didn't give such orders. thinking that having arrested 
see COUP I page 4 
INSIDE COLUMN 
PC should not 
invade the 



sporting arena 

Ten days after the 1991 Fall Classic, described by Brendan Regan 
many as the greatestWorld Series of all time, Graphic artist the controversy remains-not surrounding Twins' frrst baseman Kent Hrbek's questionable tag/fireman's carry of Ron Gant which snuffed out a potential Atlanta rally. I'm referring instead to the issue raised by Native American protestors outside the Metrodome before the four games in Min­neapolis. To summarize, these distraught citizens were making known their objection to team nicknames which they labeled "racist," in this case the Braves. They similarly condemned the Indians and the NFL's Chiefs and Redskins. I, however, do not subscribe to their views. Many sympathizers among you must be wondering how someone from Mankato, Minn. (see Guinness Book of World Records-Largest Mass Indian Hanging) can be sensitive to Indians. I'll get to my "qualification" to write this column in a moment. Funny, I overheard several Atlanta fans, and they were saying things like "Go Braves, let's win this one" and "C'mon Braves, you can do it." Deplorable, isn't it? How insensitive can people be? The group whose behavior merits scrutiny is the protestors who physically struck Atlanta fans arriving at the Dome decked out in headdresses and war paint in support of their team. The protestors (several of whom were arrested) accused these devoted fans of shameless "mockery." As I contemplated this issue, I decided to prevail upon the wisdom of a like-minded fanatic of baseball and politics between in­nings of one of the games. For the record, George Will, a nationally syndicated political columnist, sees nothing wrong with the in­famous "tomahawk chop," the Braves fans' rally-equivalent of the Homer Hanky. Now back to me and why I'm qualified to write this. Did you notice my name? Very Irish, isn't it? See my point? I, too, am a victim of mass insensitivity; nowhere is it more widespread than here at Notre Dame, where we cheer on the Fightin' Irish. But am I offended by the rather unflattering leprechaun caricature? Hardly. Where will all of this political-correctness hysteria end if we continue to bend over backwards appeasing every special interest that feels wronged? Today it's the Braves, tomorrow maybe the Celtics and Canucks. As for the recent claims that Braves fans were disrespecting religious customs, con­sider this scenario: the San Diego Padres make the World Series next year, and hun­dreds of diehard fans attend the games dressed as monks. Would they be denounced by religious organizations nationwide? Very doubtful, simply because they intend no harm or offense to anyone-just like Braves fans. Lighten up, rightsmongers. Let's keep the P.C.-police out of the sacred American insti­tution of professional sports. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Production News Kristin Lynch Meredith McCullough Lisa Bourdon Alicia Reale Sports Grahics Jennifer Marten Brendan Regan Accent Systems Gerry Hamilton Pat Barth Patrick Moran Mike Murphy Paige Smoron Chris Caracciolo Photo Viewpoint John Rock Brian Stalter 
Guy Loranger 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST: 
Cloudy and cold 
today with a 60 
percent chance of 
snow showers. 
Highs in the low 
30s and falling into 
the 20s in the 
afternoon. 
TEMPERATURES: 

Chy H L A!hens 63 46 A~anta 53 26 Berlin 50 41
:.::: 

Boston 48 36f= Chicago 37 18 ·=· Dallas-Ft.Worth 57 26 Denver 51 36t~ Detroit 32 17 ::::: Honolulu 89 72
··:·· 

·,·, Houston 67 31 Indianapolis 38 15 London 46 41 Los Angeles 89 51 Madrid 70 52 MamiBeadl 77 62 New Orleans 63 29 New York 46 35 Paris 50 45 Philadelphia 48 30 Rome 68 54 St. Louis 47 25 San Francisco 76 51 Seattle 59 49 South Bend 35 17
COLD WARM STATIONARY \!:11991 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Tokyo 68 52 Washington, D.C.SO 27
Pressure 

H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Israel bars peace marches 
• JERUSALEM -The Israeli army announced Tuesday that Palestinian peace demonstrations in the occupied territories will now be prohibited for fear they could trigger violent confrontations. Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip have organized dozens of peace demonstrations since the Mideast peace talks opened last week in Madrid, Spain. But participants have sometimes clashed with Israeli troops or members of Muslim fundamentalist and radical Palestinian groups opposing the Madrid talks. Commanders in the field have been instructed to use sound judgement and not necessarily employ force while dispersing non-violent demonstrations. 

NATIONAL 
Illinoisans compete in stamp contest 
• WASHINGTON -If Peoria iron worker Willie Bell wins the 1992 federal duck-stamp contest, he thinks his heavy metal days could be over. Why carry a lunch bucket when an artist like Bell could put brush to canvas and turn a hobby into a full-time job? Bell, 40, is among 19 Illinoisans who have entered paintings in this week's contest, which usually promises to vault the winner into the vanguard of wildlife art. The government has been in the duck-stamp business since 1934, when each was sold 

OF INTEREST 
• 
The I.S.O. will sponsor a talk about "Tourism as a de­velopment path in island nations" given by Professor Jerome McElroy, chairman of the business administration and economics department of SMC, at 7 p.m. at the ISO lounge in 205 LaFortune. 

• 
The Notre Dame Orchestra will perform their fall concert, Wednesday, November 6 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Works by G. Faure, A. Vilaldi, and F. Mendelssohn­Baltholdy. The concert is free and open to the public and sponsored by the music department. 

• 
Pax Christi-NO will hold its usual meeting tonight and for the remainder of the semester in the Center for Social Concerns Chapel at a new time, 8:30p.m. 

• 
Juniors should submit pictures for the JPW slide show. Please bring horizontal pictures (no alcohol present) to 


MARKET UPDATE 

for $1. Today, the price is $15, and the money is used to preserve wetlands. Duck hunters 16 and older must buy the stamp, but it also is popular among collectors. The government will give the winning artist a pane of stamps signed by Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan. The artist's pot of gold comes later when the commissions roll in off the sale of limited-edition prints, which sell for $150 to $200. The winner will be announced Wednesday. 

INDIANA 
Mone~ was not all used for schools 

• INDI NAPOLIS -The state school superintendent says money that should have been used on education was diverted to "pork barrel" projects for the benefit of the administration of Gov. Evan Bayh. Superintendent H. Dean Evans, a Republican, said less than half of the $300 million raised by a 1987 tax increase for education made it to Indiana schools. "Unfortunately, those taxes, which should have been used for our children's education, have increasingly been spent to keep the current administration afloat," he said Monday. Evans, in a recent letter to school superintendents, referred to lost funding as he defended the A-Plus program he played a major role in drafting. That program "never has been fully funded and in that respect never has reached its full potential," said Evans. He said about $173 million of the 1987 tax hike was not used to further educational improvement. 
Student Activities and put them in the special activities box by Dec. 2. Put your name and address on the back of each picture so it can be returned. 
• 
A presentation/reception will be held for all stu­dents interested in discovering career opportunities with The First Boston Corporation in the Main Lounge, Uni­versity Club at 6 p.m. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

• 
A Teach for America presentation/reception for Bachelors, Masters, or PhD's interested in discovering opportunities will be held at 8 p.m. in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

• 
"Summer Internships: Strategies Used In Obtaining These Jobs" is the title of a presentation to be given by Paul Reynolds of Career and Placement Services tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Hayes Healy Auditorium. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY On November 6: 

• 
In 1869: The first official intercollegiate football game was played in New Brunswick, N.J. Rutgers beat Princeton, six goals to four. 

• 
In 1913: Mohandas Gandhi was arrested as he led a march of Indian miners in South Africa. 

• 
In 1977: Thirty-nine people were killed when an earthen dam burst, sending a 30-foot wall of water through the cam­pus of Toccoa Falls Bible College in Georgia. 

• 
In 1978: Two days after the Iranian hostage crisis began, Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan and his government resigned, leaving Ayatollah Khomeini and his Revolutionary Council in control of Iran. 


""'Wednesday, November 6~ ·1991 The Observer ~page 3 



HPC: SMC's new parietals discussed 
By STEVEN KRAUSS News Writer 
A new parietals system has bnnn proposnd for Saint Mary's College. Definite hours haven't been decided for the new sys­tmn, but it would probably ex­tend the time that males are al­lownd in female dorms by about sevnn hours. 
Adrienne Briggs, the Saint Mary's representative lo the Hall Pn~sidents' Council (HPC), announced that the new pari­elals system has been devised in a joint effort between l{esidence Life and Residence I tall Association. 
At Tuesday's IIPC meeting, Briggs said that the joint pro­posal will be submitted to Saint Mary's President, Dr. William llickey, within two weeks. 
Briggs also announced the grand opening of Clarissa Dal­loway's Coffeehouse, Wednes­day Nov. (, at 8 p.m. 

GM invites ND student applications for award 
By TRAVIS SMITH Royer, comprised of University News Writer administrators, faculty mem­
This year marks the first time bers, and staff and student Notre Dame students will be representatives. considered for General Motors' "The committee will look at Volunteer Spirit Award, an .he students' self-growth ob­honor which recognizes indi­tained through their service ex­viduals for their distinguished periences as well as the contri­volunteer service. butions they make to the com­
"The three students who re­munity," added Royer. ceive this award will be judged In addition to the recognition on their exceptional volunteer of winning the Volunter-r Spirit service, whether it be on or ofT Award, recipients will be campus, and the contribution awarded five shares of General this service makes to the com­Motors Corporation Common munity. This includes student stock and a plaque signed by organizations and Robert Stempel, chairman of clubs,"explained Kathy Royer the Board of General Motors, from the Notre Dame Center for and University President Father Social Concerns. Edward Malloy. 
Royer stressed that all Notre Applications for the award Dame students are eligible and are available at the Center for encouraged to apply. Social Concerns. The deadline 
Applications will be reviewed for applications is Friday, by a committee selected by March 6. 

'Loss' forum will offer hope 
Special to The Observer incidents of personal loss in A weekend conference 
their lives. 

entitled "Death, Divorce and The conference will include presentations by Pat Reynolds, a Saint Mary's College graduate and hospital chaplain who has led several seminars on loss since her husband's death in 1984, and Brian Miller, a pro­fessional counselor who works with families in crisis and who was himself divorced in 1985 after 13 years of marriage. "Throughout life, loss con­fronts us in broken relation­ships, failed dreams and final goodbyes. We're inviting people to Notre Dame for a weekend filled with hope and enjoyment which could help them through the pain of such moments," ac­cording to Kathleen Sullivan, director of Alumni Continuing Education. "We've discovered in previous conferences that initially ap­prehensive participants dis­cover a weekend filled with hope and enjoyment-a turning point in their lives," she said. 
SINCE 1949 

Crat IIPindl, Grat S.vlcl, llr'at Prbl, .._... AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Mon -Thur 11-7 pm Fri 11-6 pm 

220 W. Marion Sat 10-4 pm ~39 S. M•ct1igan 
SPECIAUSTS IN GUrrAR & SASS REPAIRSI 
Prof. Jerome McElroy Chairman ofthe Bus. Adm. & Economics Dept. of Saint Mary's College 


topic: "Tourism as a development path in island nations" 
November Blh at 7 pm 
location: 1.8.0. Lounge, 204 LaFortune sponsored by I.S.O. refreshments afterwards 

Investment Banking Opportunities at First Boston 
First Boston, a global invesbnent banking firm headquartered in New York, will be recruiting Notre Dame graduates for its financial analyst program. This two-year program offers individuals, from a broad range ofacademic backgrounds, unique insights into the investment banking industry. Positions are available in the Investment Banking Department. 
All students are cordially invited to join First Boston representatives fur an introduction to the firm and the analyst program on: 
\\Mnesday, November 6, 1991 The University Club The Main Lounge 6:00p.m. 
Interview Date: February 4, 1992 
fur further information and inquiries, please feel free to contact: 
Betsy Joseph Investment Banking (312) 750-3094 
The First Boston Corporation Park Avenue Plaza New York, N.Y. 10055 
-~ ~ 

page 4 
SECURITY BEAT 

THURSDAY, OCT. 31 
2:36 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident re· ported the theft of various items from his unlocked room. The theft occurred be­tween October 21 and October 25. 
4:36 p.m. A Wayne, New Jersey. resi­dent reported the theft of nine football tickets from his table at the Quarterback Luncheon in the JACC. 
6:04 p.m. A University faculty member reported she l~t a leather pouch some­where on campus. 
6:45 p.m. A University faculty mi'Jmber reported he lost a set of keys. 

11 :10 p.ni. A University employee reported he witnessed the vandalism of a car and a sign on campus. 
FRIDAY, NOV•. 

12:46 a.m. A B.P. resident reported the theft of her license plate from her car which was parked in the 0-l'! parking lot. 
1:30 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Pollee Officer stopped a Dillon Hall resident who was attempting to steal a traffic sign. 
2:15 a.m. A Siegfrlt:~d Hall resl<lent re· ported the theft of her coat from the Alumni Senior Club. 
6:06 a.m. A University t:~mploy~(:l re· ported she lost her checkbook. 
10:02 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Pollee transported an injured Grace '"!all resident to the Student Health Center.' !' 
10:05 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department treated a sick University employee at Graca HaJj. and assisted in transporting her to tne St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
10:15 a.m. A Notre Dama uc rityiPolica Officer transported a 'fed University employee from the JI\~P to 
St. Joseph's Emergency Room. ···~···· 
10:27 a.m. An olf campus studi\)n1 re'ported the theft of her licellse plate from the D"6 parking lot. 
11 :03 a.m. A Lewis Han. resldentt.&' 
ported she received se~~ral hari!Ji$il'lg phone calls. ··''~'-::· 
11:15 a.m. AMetarie, Louisiana resident reported tile theft ol a cellf.IJar pllor\!i ftnm her car which was parked In Red field . East. 
11:45 a.m. ported the theft of his sneakers. 

2:55 p.m. Notra Dame Security/Police assisted In transporting an injured Columbia, Maryland resident to the St. Joseph's Emergency Room. 
6:30 p.m. A South Bend resident re· ported her car door was di;mtad whll!'l her ·. vehicle was parked In the B-1 parking lot 
8:35 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police transported an Injured Globe, ..!\ri;~tona resident from the JACC IC St Joseph's Hospital. :t0:30 p.m An off campus student re· ported her car was damaged by an aulo· 
Officer transported an injured fishe.r resident to the Student Health Center. 
1:50 a.m. A Siegfried Hall re~ici$ilt re; ported that a man grabbed her in !he 0·2 parking lot. The victim struck the st!$pect with a flashlight and ran to Mr dormitory. She was not Injured In any way. 2 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police ap­prehendad two Flannerresidents..who were trespassing on Univarslty property. 5 a.m. A Notre Dame Security/Pollee Officer responded to a false fire alarm in Flanner HaiL 6:15a.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported the theft of his stereo tapa deck from his unlocked room. 
11 :15 a.m. A Homewood, Illinois resi· dant raported that sha lost a make-up kit In Green field. 
11:44 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Pollee and Fire Department transported an injured Dillon Hall resident from South Dining Hall to the Student Health Center. 
11 :55 a.m. Notre Dame Security/Police apprehended a South Band resident for shoplifting at the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
3:15 p.m. A University employee re­ported the theft of his football programs from outside Notre Dame Stadium. 5:15p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police assisted an intoxicated juvenile at the Notre Dame Stadium:­

----~---~----~-----­


Harvey 
continued from page 4 
port group for Catholic homo­sexual men and women. 
When asked if homosexual organizations should be recog­nized, Harvey said "any homo­sexual organization whose ex­plicit purpose is to foster chaste friendships among ho­mosexuals should be encour­aged and recognized." He would like to start a chapter of Courage at Notre Dame. 
The Student Union Board and The Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life committee or­ganized and funded Harvey's visit. 
The Observer 


Coup 
continued from page 1 

Gorbachev everything would work out by itself. They had no . idea of the strength of people's 
power," said Apreysan. 

"During the coup, there was a 
great moral and spiritual expe­
rience for the people-a 
feeling of new life," Apresyan 
said. 

The coup leaders failed to 
consider the role that people's 
resistance might play in the 
coup, he said. "The coupists 
gave broad limits to people's 
power. They were more ori­
ented to international opinion, 
the reactions to the leaders in 
the West than their own native 





CARMELITES 
AOlVEAND CONTEMPLATIVE MEN 
CALLED TO BRING GOD'S LOVE INTO TilE WORLD 
Carmelites in our Province of the Most Pure Heart of Mary, consisting of 285 priests and 30 Brothers, have always responded to the needs of the Church in varied minisbies; throughout the United States as well as Ontario and Quebec, Canada and Rome. Our missionaries serve in Lima and Sicuani, Peru. 
-CONTAcr-
Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carm., Vocation Director 1313 Frontage Road Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 (708) 852-4536 


I lOOKAN ART COURSE "TO BOOST 11-tE OL' G.P.A. 


,_r; 
-.....;; 
people," stated Apresyan. 

The coup leaders could have significantly reduced the amount of people's resistance, he explained. "If the coupists were active from the beginning; if they were more violent and coercive in the beginning," people power would have no base for their strength. 
Apresyan expressed concerns over the consequences of the coup. Independence and liber­
alization are hopeful, but fragmentation and decomposi­tion are not positive develop­ments. he said. 
One fear he voiced is that many of the leaders of the 
Wednesday, November 6, 1991 

newly independent Soviet re­
publics have merely taken off 
the "clothes of communism," 
while maintaining totalitarian 
contr.ol. 
"The coup dissolved this huge 
geo-political system. It would 
be better if the Soviet Union 
survived as a union of new po­
litical ideology," Apresyan con­
cluded. 
The lecture, titled "A Moral 
and Political Appraisal of the 
August Coup and Prospects for 
Nonviolence in the USSR," 
held at the Hesburgh Center for 
International Studies. 
The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism 
invites you to attend a seminar 
"HOPELESS CASES: 
THE WOMEN WHO PRAYED 
TO SAINT JUDE, 1929-1965" 
Professor Robert Orsi Indiana University-Bloomington 
Thursday, November 7, 1991 
4:15 P.M. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge University of Notre Dame 
DIDN'T WORK.ProFESSOR 
SAID I HAD NO TALENT. 


l=ffDN\ Yout. ORJ ""'LsAAr. ~HOT. CLIPPING OR SLIDE. ~xcEU.Et-JT Rt.m:>Dt.CnON WliH Al.O'fOf FEEU~EJ 
Kaail)s· 'THE CDPYC£NTER ·18187 SfAT[ RD.23 (Z/1) Z?l-0318 -FREE CDPIES ID/.20 · COMPLETF DEVIJL5 AT STORF 
3THINGS 
TO CONSIDER 
BEFORE BUYING 
ACOMPUTER 
IN YOUR 



FRESHMAN 
YEAR. 


The Observer 

Wednesday, November 6, 1991 page 5 
Gates 
continued from page 1 
named him to head the agency but he was forced to withdraw under the cloud of Iran-Contra. 
President Bush said in a statement issued after the Sen­ate's action that the "vote is a confirmation that Bob Gates has the professional expertise and experience to lead our in­telligence community during these changing times." 
Senate supporters cam­paigned for Gates on the 
ground that his background in intelligence work gave him the know-how to do the job and that he had overcome whatever past deficiencies he may have had. 
"The last thing you want is someone at the helm of an agency who really does not have experience in that field," said Intelligence Committee Chairman David Boren, D­Okla., the most outspoken Gates booster in the Senate. 
"If you're going to find someone who's never made a mistake, you've got to find someone who's never made a decision," Boren said. 


MANDATORY 

BE PREPARED TO BE IMPRESSED! 
WED: PENNY CUP NIGHT 
THURS: $1 TEAS FRI: WET T·SHIRT/HOT BUNS CONTEST SAT: 75¢ SPECIALS 
WED: WVFI DJ,TIM MCADAM 
at.dlum 
0 
Q JACC 0 
1150 M1showoko Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 

But doubts lingered among many lawmakers. "I have an uneasy feeling about Mr. Gates, and I don't think we ought to have that uneasy feeling about whoever heads the CIA," said Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., who voted against confirmation. 
"I think we can do better in this country. I think we can find someone who would have the unanimous support of this body," Simon said. 
Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D­Conn., was typical of Gates supporters who qualified their 
endorsement. 

Notre Dame Communication & Theatre presents: 
National Players 
America's longest 
running classical 
touring company 


Paper won't publish Trudeau comic strip 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -A newspaper said Tuesday it won't publish a series of "Doonesbury" cartoon strips suggesting that federal drug officials suppressed information about Vice President Dan Quayle. 
Other newspaper editors questioned the cartoons by Garry Trudeau. 
A Quayle spokesman said he wasn't aware of any such file or probe. 
"I'm one of the staunchest and earliest admirers of Garry Trudeau," said George Waters, president and publisher of the Daily Sentinel of Rome, N.Y. His paper decided not to run the two-week series scheduled to start next week. 
"There are times when he goes over the edge in taste and possible libel," Waters said of Trudeau. "I don't want to carry out his personal vendettas." 
Universal Press Syndicate in Kansas City distributes "Doonesbury" to nearly 1,400 publications. 
Lee Salem, Universal Press editorial director, said the strips allege the Drug En­forcement Administration has a file on Quayle and the file's ex­istence was covered up. 
"We say he was investigated for the purchase of cocaine," Salem said. 
In the strip, the fictional newspaper reporter Rick Red­fern tracks down a tip on the unsubstantiated allegations. 



MIRACLE 
WORKER 
BYWJLLIAM GIBSON 
Wednesday, November 13 8:10p.m. Thursday, November 14 8:10p.m. Friday, November 15 8:10p.m. · Saturday, November 16 8:10p.m. Sunday, November 17 3:10p.m. 
Reserved seats $7 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for Wednesday, Thursday and Sunday perfor­mances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders call239-8128. 
WASHINGTON HALL 
We'd like to suggest that you give your Ne'XTstations are moving not only into put your NeXTstation to work first and read In fact, your NeXTstation can switch compmcr the same can:ful consideration teaching labs but into dorm rooms as well. the instruction manual later. effortlessly among any of over I00 NeXT that you give your major. With a minimum of8 MB of memory just don't be misled by our simplicity. applications. Revolutionary applications 
More, actually. and lOS MB of hard disk storage standard, Behind that comfortably intuitive graphi-like Lotus•ImprovN, Adobe•lllustrator~, 
After all, it typically doesn't cost a couple you'lllx; hard pressed to ruu out of room for cal imcrfac.:c n.:sides the full power of Wordl'crfcc.:t•, 'lopLJraw"', and Softi'C' ·. 
of thousand dollars to sllot<;h YOUR all your accumulated knowledge. YOUR UNIX"', the operating system ANDYOUR Software you can put to majors. So keep And with a ofchoice among work on your school in mind that the SOPHOMORE YEAR. JUNIOR YEAR. scientists, re-SENIOR YEAR. work today. 
Motorola  
b..rgain computer that \l-urks just fine for  68040 processor, that clocks in at a full IS  searchers and business professionals.  And for many days thereafter.  
freshman English may seem a bit  MIPS, you won't find your NeXTstation  Unlike personal computer operating sys- So visit your local campus computer re- 
lightweight when you're knee-deep in  slowing down at the precise moment your  terns, like MS-DOS", with UNIX you can  seller for a NeXTstation demonst~­~  
statistics. Or engineering equations. Or  workload is picking up.  print a term paper, evaluate a complex  tion. And get an idea just how  
research projc:cu.  What's more, it won't rake four years to  spreadsheet, and graph your latest lab re- exciting the next four years are  
Which may explain why more and more  Jearn to use one. Don't be surprised if you  suits, all at full speed. All at the same time.  going to be.  <!!I  



The Observer 

page 6 
Postal price increase rejected 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The governors of the Postal Service voted Tuesday to keep the price of a first-class stamp at 29 cents rather than raising it a penny. 
But Postmaster General An­thony Frank said holding the line now means the next in­crease, possibly as much as a nickel, will probably come a year earlier than originally planned. 
"America will likely see a:q­other postage rate increase in early 1994 -instead of 1995 ­and another in 1997 or 1998," Frank said. "If we could have had a 30-cent first class stamp we would have needed only one more rate change this decade." 
Keeping the stamp price at 29 cents will cost the post office about $800 million annually, explained Fr.ank. 
But public watchdog Ralph 
Nader termed the action a 
"victory for consumers." 
Tuesday's vote ended 20 
months of haggling with the in­dependent Postal Rate Commis­sion, which last January re­jected the Postal Service's re­quest for a 30-cent stamp. 
The Postal Service put the commission-approved 29-cent rate into effect last Feb. 3, un­der protest. Two subsequent requests that the commission reconsider its decision were re­jected, putting the matter back into the hands of the postal governors. 
They have the power to over­rule the rate commission, but only if they vote unanimously to do so. When decision time came, the vote was 6-3 in favor of raising rates, effectively ending the rate case and keep­ing stamp prices at their cur­rent level. 
"It is odd that it requires a 9­
0 vote to adjust postage rates, 
when the Supreme Court can 
make life-and-death decisions 
with a vote of 5-4," said Frank 
after the meeting. 


URBAN p


r-----~A~-~~~~~1-~S~~-~R-~A-=~~1--0--N------~--~ 
0-E-R-0-L-1-N-E· 
A-T-N·O~ CENTER F 0 R S 0 C I r1 l CONCERNS -CAMPUS MINISTRY: 
BADIN & HESBURGII LIBRARY 
A-T-S-M-G: -JUSTICE EDUCATION -CAMPUS MINISTRY -sURU OFFICE-IN HAGGAR 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: SUE CUNNINGIIAM 239-5293 OR TAliC TO YOUR DORM R£PR£HNTATIII£ 

z 
G) 
m 

While the price of a first-class stamp is the most visible part of the rate process, it is only part of a complex series of rates. 
When it turned down the re­quest for a 30-cent stamp, the independent Rate Commission did suggest a series of other rate hikes that it said would have raised about $330 million annually. These included an ex­tra penny -to 24 cents -for the second ounce of first-class mail and several small changes for other classes of mail. 
The postal governors voted 9­0 to reject that proposal, con­tending that it would have con­fused customers without raising enough money to make up for the loss of the 30-cent stamp. 
Once in the past, in 1981, the 
board of governors overruled a 
rate commission decision. In 
that case, the commission ap­
proved an increase from 15 
cents to 18 cents for a first­
class stamp, and the board of 
governors later raised the rate 
to 20 cents. 


Go to Meanwhile 
All you can eat for $1.00 from 9-11 pm The nightly special for $1.00 each Thursday Nov. 7th 

Meet author 

Thomas Stritch 
-the toast of Tennessee, the pride of N.D.­as he signs copies of his new book 

My Notre Dame 
Memories and Reflections of Sixty Years 

their son, Phillip, later identi­Rankin, radioed a distress call, fied the body. said Campi.
Maxwell 
The cause of death was not In London, Charles Wilson, immediately known, but an au­director of Maxwell's Mirror
continued from page 1 
topsy was planned for Wednes­Group Newspapers, said there day. had been no suggestion of foul nary Island after an extensive 
Maxwell was last seen alive play. "We can only assume that air-and-search search, said 
on the deck of his yacht at 4:45 Maxwell slipped and fell over­Fernando Cano, spokesman at a.m. (11:45 p.m. EST Monday), board," he said. 
the rescue center in Madrid. 
said John Campi, a Daily News Maxwell had been due to de­spokesman. liver a speech to the annual The body was taken by heli­
At 11 a.m. a business call ar­dinner of the Anglo-Israel As­copter to the Gando air base on rived from New York and the sociation at a London hotel 
Grand Canary Island. Cano said crew discovered Maxwell was Monday night, but organizersMaxwell's wife, Elizabeth, and 
not on board. The captain, Gus were told about 30 minutes be­

-------~ 
page 7 

policy and even make daily de­cisions. 
Maxwell had been selling as­sets to raise money to meet a $750 million debt payment due 
in October 1992. Maxwell ear­lier this year sold 49 percent of the Mirror Group of newspa­pers in a public offering, and sold the publishing house Perg­amon Press to Elsevier NV of the Netherlands. Earlier this month, he sold Macmillan's di­rectory businesses to the Bri­tish publisher Reed Interna­tional for $146 million in cash. 
The boards of Maxwell's companies named one of Maxwell's sons, Kevin, 32, as acting chairman of Maxwell Communication, and another son, Ian, 35, as acting chair­man of the Mirror Group. The 
sons have long worked in the family business. 
Maxwell was in the news re­cently when investigative jour­nalist Seymour Hersh said in his book "The Samson Option" that Maxwell had close links with Israeli intelligence. Maxwell and his Mirror Group filed libel writs against Hersh and his publisher, Faber and Faber, which in turn counter­sued. 
"I do know much more about him than I wrote," Hersh said. He added that he believed the information will be released 
j 
on 
~ 
1 

ease Recycle Thank You. 
Deceived PG 13 
5:00 7:30 9:30 The People Under lhe Slalrs R 1:30 4:45 7:15 9:45 


DAYTONA BEACH m;.;,o;;  -IJIJ4 _.,,_,JJ  
2. S AND l  NIGHTS  
PANAIIA QTY·BEACH  -lf22  
l  NIGHTS  ·  .'  ·  
FOilT LAUDERbALE  -lfJ&  
lNIGHTS  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND  -lffJ  

llESEINATIONS AVAILABLE NOW/ 
SOUTHS-1NIGHTSMDIIIUD 
S AND l NIGHTS 
IIUSTANG ISLAND I -lf28 
5 AND 1 NIGHTS
POIT ARANSAS 
&II

IIIII Annual ~ 
C...llllnltlo191 • 
TOll FIB IIFOIIIATIOIIIIISIIVAnOIIS 
1·800·111·5911 
Wednesday, November 6, 1991 The Observer 
fore the event began that he was ill. His son Ian delivered the speech instead.

Litigation •Real Estate The yacht docked at Los Cris­
1 
tianos, a resort town on the

eorporatiODS. GeneraJ Practice 'southwestern tip of Tenerife. 
1

Estates, Trusts &Wills Weather officials said the skies 
were clear at the time of 

• Largest A.B.A.-approved program I Maxwell's disappearance. in Illinois "Everyone is extremely
1 
shocked," said David Shaffer,

• 
Effective employment assistance president and chief operating 

• 
Four-month day and eight-month officer in charge of most of evening classes Maxwell Communication 

• 
Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook Corp.'s U.S. operations, based in Greenwich, Conn. 


and Olympia Fields locations Before the announcement of pean, an anguage 
A representative will be on campus Maxwell's disappearance, weekly. He acquired the Daily November 21st Maxwell Communications and News in March from the Tri­its affiliate, Mirror Group bune Co. after a five-month 
strike nearly closed the paper.
-.-~-R=•=~:.:~-~~-----------~:~~~aft~~~ ;;C~,a~;=~~ St:S~ Maxwell has always been ~ ~:;;s Assislanl • •-" I pend trading in their ShareS. heavily involved in the day-to­
• 430S.MichiganAvenuc =--------,-,---__....,;::---I Maxwell's holdings range day operation of his companies, 
Chicago, IL 60605 c., ''"' "' f I B 'ti' h t bl 'd t
rom severa n s a 01 s o and his death could seriously 
undermine their ability to set

;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;3;1;2-;34;;;1-;388;;2;;;;;"""""";;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;~jthe Daily News to The Euro-

Just Jl. Littfe ... 



f£{jin Magic ! 
hristmas Open House 
~ Arts & Crafts Show November 8th & 9th 
* 
Christmas Shopping

* 
Decorations

* 
Gifts, and More!!! 


Theodore's in LaFortune, to the right of the dome 
Tl,.. N 
Fri. 9 am -5 ·pm 
Sat. 9 am -noon 
Novt·mh.,r IH-19 11:10 p.m. Wn>'hin~tlon II all Notr•· Dnme Unin•rsilv Staulenls $1UHI Non-SIIult~nls S I 0.00 l•urrfuuu-Tid.t·ll4 ul l.ul-'4,rhlll4' Be., ( Jfli•:•· 

Sophomore & Junior Business Administration Majors 
Notre Dame Accounting Association and Arthur Andersen 
present 


CAREERS IN ACCOUNTING 
All students are welcome to attend and hear more about accounting related careers 
Wednesday, November 6th, 1991 
Senior Bar Presentation -4:30 pm Pizza Reception -5:30 pm Dress is casual 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 

AlmruR ANDERsEN&.Co sc 

"Paralegal in heavy demand" 
-Wall Street Journal 
January 23, 1991 
"Paralegal: Recession­proof job" 
-Good Housekeeping 
February 1991 
"R It
OOSeVe
fed me tO a challenging

career." 
M
I
-K tty oore
Legal Assistant 











Viewpoint 
PageS Wednesday, November 6, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ......••..•............ Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •••.•............. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ..•.•....•..•.. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor ..•••••...•.•.••....John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
All classrooms should be declared 'safe havens' 
Dear Editor:  rassed, violently abused both  Instead,  most  politicians,  Unfortunately, our university  GLND/SMC as an organization  
In an ad published in The Ob­ verbally and physically because  fearful of becoming targets of  community is not free from  to which tax-deductible chari­ 
server on Oct. 1, 1991, the Of­ of the of the perception that  the ignorant, hate-filled, irra­ homophobia.  Witness the un­ table  contributions  can  be  
fice of Campus Ministry spoke  they are or may be homosexual,  tional rantings of the most ex- willingness of a number of our  made.  The Notre Dame branch  
of the "need to be consciously  some choose to end their lives.  treme homophobes among us  hall councils to declare, or even  of the U.S. Postal Service rec­ 
open to new values, new in­ Others, so infected with the  who were gleefully and bias- seriously consider declaring,  ognizes its existence by allow­ 
sights, and new cultures and  virus of homophobia that they  phemously proclaiming AIDS to  their dormitories "Safe Havens"  ing it to lease a post-office box.  
ways of life" and the impor­ think of themselves as unnatu­ be God's chosen instrument to  for homosexual residents and  
tance "for all of us to become  ral monsters when they recog­ punish gays, chose to look the  for  the  discussion  of  Surely, by now, almost every­ 
freer and more peaceful in our  nize the futility of trying to  other way.  As the realization  homosexuality.  Witness also  one at Notre Dame is aware of  
own choices by becoming more  change the sexual orientation  has dawned, all too slowly, that  the paranoid fear of homosex­ its existence.  Nevertheless, the  
open to the gifts of others."  rWl-·t_h_whi_·c_h_n_a_t_ur_e_h_a_s_e_n_d_o_w_e_d  A_I_D_s_a_lso threatens hetero~s:!;e~x;:,--!!!~:..t!!h!!a!!t~h~a~s:..,::;~~~~~~  Office of Student Affairs is so  

I urge my faculty colleagues to join with me in support of these sentiments by adopting Michael Vore's "Safe Haven" initiative and declaring our classrooms "Safe Havens" for all individuals regardless of their sexual orientation. It is incumbent upon us as the group within the university community most directly re­sponsible for the education of its student constituency to do whatever we can to combat the homophobia which pervades not only American society but also for our Notre Dame com­
munity. 
Our gay and lesbian neigh­bors, friends and relative have learned the hard way that ho­mophobia kills. It not only de­stroys the spirit but it also takes the lives of many of our best and brightest. The spectacle of gay and lesbian bashing which sponsible for its spread. mands be accorded GLND/SMC,
has become ever more evident Witness also the thousands, not content with the willingness in recent years is only the tip of perhaps even millions, of AIDS Conveniently forgetful of their of its leaders to include in all its fearful that its existence might be implied that it has prohibited ads in The Observer that "give the appearance or semblance" of an organization. 

Let us, as faculty, join hands with the rational administrators who are willing to assist GLND/SMC. Let us join hands with open-minded, humane stu­dents who are willing to pro­claim their dormitories "Safe Havens." Let us join hands with those officially-recognized organizations that are willing to sponsor discussions of ho­mosexuality and homophobia. Let us declare our classrooms "Safe Havens." 
Obviously, steps such as these will not immediately and by themselves change the minds and hearts of everyone. How­ever, they will help speed the process. Let us all heed the an­cient Chinese proverb which reminds us that even a journey of a thousand miles begins with one step and proceeds one step
the iceberg. victims-gay and straight, past, own culpability in this regard, ads a statement disclaiming any at a time. 
present, and future-who might they choose to ignore the early, implication of official 
Witness the role played by have been spared the ravages solitary educational campaigns recognition, the Vice-President homophobia in the alarming of this dread disease if our undertaken by the gay commu­for Student Affairs now seeks to Lawrence J. Bradleygrowth of teen suicide. Ap­government had acted more nity at considerable effort and conceal its very existence. Adjunct Assistant Professor, proximately one-third of such quickly to combat it when it expense and in the face of con­Management Department suicides is attributable to prob­first appeared on the American siderable homophobic opposi­Note the irrational absurdity Oct. 7,1991 lems associated with sexual scene. tion to combat the spread of of this policy. The Internal 
orientation. Ostracized, ha-AIDS. Revenue Service recognizes 
DOONESBURV 
YOU'R£ A WHAT, YOU A Pei?FORiriANt:l MORON OR Al<r15T? 14/HAT :ntlffTHIN6 ?' IS PlJI?F(RM-YOU JCRI<JN' .ANCb A!<TANY­MYCIIA/N, WAY? I'VeAt.­
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
l'ffCPU 7WAY, THC.Y OON'TKN~ 
FR.OM CI?APOlA! I MEWV, 
YOU 8U5T YWR. 8UNSAUOAY 
'The strength or weakness of a
ANP 1Hl3N YOU G&T J!31?/<W 
AFOUNO Ul<& 1HI5/ /A/HAT'S IT 
society depends more on the level 
5&T YOU? IT JU5Tlt1AK£S ;a; 
of its spiritual life than on its level 
5/CK., MAl<&? YOU NANT 70PUI<& >WR GUf5 OUT; 'T1I.iff5 WHAT! 
of industrialization.' 

Alexander Solzhenitsyn 
Expand a mind, submit a quote: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Dear Editor:  from  around  the  globe.  Rockne, Ara Parseghian and  Notre Dame game experience  dium or one is decimating Notre  
Imagine replacing the famed  Similarly, one block South an­ Frank Leahy.  be imprinted in one's mind if it  Dame itself.  Is completely  
Leaning Tower of Pisa simply  other  foundation  of  Notre  There is not another facility  was played on an innovative  destroying  almost  three­ 
because it was  not perfectly  Dame's eminent tradition sur­ with the claims of the "Gipper"  layer of astroturf under some  quarters of a century worth of  
straight.  Imagine demolishing  vives  in  the  Notre  Dame  and his athletic and personal  roofed synthetic dome?  I think  history really worth a few extra  
the giant Roman aqueducts for  Stadium.  sacrifices. The miracle-working  not.  dollars from  a  couple more  
the mere reason that water isn't  The stadium was constructed  of possibly the best quarterback  A new stadium would not hold  fans?  
carrind through them anymore.  in an era where form replaced  ever, Joe Montana, was never  any  of  the  memories  that  .Knute Rockne had  a  vision  
Imagine  destroying  the  function, where style surpassed  executed on another college  helped build Notre Dame from  when he supervised construc­ 
Coliseum in Home only because  service.  Those exterior pillars  homefield.  Even the "Rocket,"  the early days, and a remodeled  tion of Notre Dame Stadium.  
portions of the walls are crum­ were not meant simply to hold  with his dazzling speed and  stadium would just lie in that  He wanted a facility that would  
bling.  Now imagine rebuilding  flagpoles, they were designed to  agility, never wove between  grey area of obscurity.  It would  tower above all others and in­ 
the Notre Dame Stadium simply  radiate an aura of majesty and  defenders in front of a different  not contain the tradition upon  still marvel in the eyes of visi­ 
becausn some say it does not  towering might.  home crowd.  which  this  university  was  tors.  He didn't desire a myriad  
snat enough fans.  It's time to  founded on and regards as its  of skyscraper seats for distant  
stop imagining.  It was no accident the seats  The nostalgia surrounding  greatest asset. The legacy of all  viewing, instead he wanted a  
History nndures everywhere  were positioned in such proxim­ Notre Dame Stadium and all the  the great players would be  smaller selection that held a  
on thn campus of the University  ity to the field that one can ac­ phenomenal games it exhibited  replaced by fiberglass  and  breathtaking grasp of the field.  
of Notre Dame.  Sacred Heart  tually feel the excitement and  is unmatched by any other  shining new white corridors.  The walls of the stadium were  
Church holds the memories of  almost play alongside the ath­ college field, antiquated or  not built with bricks, but with  
an  untold number of masses  letes.  The stadium is a living  modern.  It is a shrine to dedi­ Granted a few more specta­ memories  and  tradition  
celebrating the feasts of man  and breathing organ of Notre  cation and personal determina­ tors could watch the game with  stretching back almost a cen­ 
and spirit.  In the candles of the  Dame's existence, not simply  tion from playing host to some  a  larger stadium and  some  tury.  The natural grass flour­ 
Grotto reside over a century of  another athletic building on the  of the hardest-fought battles in  alumni would stop complaining,  ishes on the sweat and tears of  
prayers from generations of  outskirts of campus.  history.  Would that same pas­ but that would diminish the  the scores of contests held on it.  
Christians.  Completed in 1930, the sta­ sion of perseverance be engen­ eliteness in attending a Notre  When  Rockne  and  the  
Inside  the  Golden  Dome  dium has housed some of the  dered from  a newer field sur­ Dame game, and in a small part  University of Notre Dame de­ 
Administration Building linger  greatest sportsmen to ever don  rounded by a modern fiberglass  tear  away  a  piece  of  the  signed the stadium, they did not  
the remnants of the decisions  a football jersey.  Inside those  dome?  university itself. If money is the  construct a facility for football  
that shaped this university's  sacred four walls played and  Would that sensation of ex­ question, then raise the price of  games to be displayed, they  
path to the forefront of educa­ coached  the  legends  of  hilaration of playing alongside  tickets a dollar or so and there  created an exhibit for history.  
tion.  yesteryear and today.  No other  the athletes be held in a con­ would still be  a  sell-out of  
Shelved  in  the  Hesburgh  stadium lodged the raw power  temporary stadium that held  diehard Irish fans.  Bill Steinbach  
Memorial Library rest the doc­ of the immortal Four Horsemen  150,000 fans?  Likewise, would  However, do not demolish or  Dillon Hall  
men  tlon of  ears of work  or the sheer  us of Knute  the  excitement of the  remodel the Notre Dame sta- Oct. 31, 1991  
Annual snowball fight is  
,  dangerous to students Dear Editor: property damage occurred.  
As we watch temperatures drop  Nonetheless, and obviously of  
this week, we know that snow  more seriousness, several cases  
cannot be far behind. In past  of  personal  injury  were  
years, the first snowfall often  reported.  
triggered  a  snowball fight.  We are working together again  
Although on the surface this  this year to avoid a recurrence  
may seem like an innocuous  of this event. As members of a  
event, the incident resulted in  community who  care  about  
injury to students and staff, as  each other and about this place,  
well as significant damage to  we  ask  you  to  join  in  our  
University property. Through  efforts.  
the  cooperative  efforts  of  Professor Patricia O'Hara  
Student Government, HPC, hall  Vice President for  
staffs and the Office of Student  Student Affairs  
Affairs, substantial progress  Joseph Blanco  
was made last year in that no  Student Body President  

Viewpoint
Wednesday, November 5, 1991 Page 9 

London students see busy traffic and new freedoms 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame Stadium should not be diminished by change 
"Assume there were a technological breakthrough that would allow people to travel as easily and cheaply between con­tinents as bHtween nHarby ci­ties. Unfortunately, there would also be 100,000 deaths a year from this device. Would you try to prnvent its use?" 
A natural first reaction to the above scenario would be, "of course its use should be pnwented. 100,000 deaths per year is too much of a human sacrifice for the convenience of those remaining." 
If this same question, substi­tuting "between cities as within thnm" for "between continents...", had bHen posed to the inventors of the automobile one hundred years ago, one must wonder what, if anything, would be different today. 
I witnessed my first London automobiln accident eleven days aftnr arriving hnrn for the semester. It surprisnd me, not bncausn the accident occurn~d. but because it took that length of time before I saw onn happen. No one was hurt (at least not in the crash itsnlf. 
In thn aftermath, I lingered long nnough to watch two largo mnn, whosn fault the accidnnt wasn't, stalk a considerably smaller man whose fault it was. The chase left my field of vision before anything further happened.) 
This event, the ugly­sounding thud of two man­made vehicles, causing whatever degree of impact on at least three lives, struck me oddly, coming as it did on the same day I encountered the question which begins this article. 
The streets of London are by no means designed for automotive vehicles. These streets were made for walking, horse-drawn carriages, and not much else. Like many older American ci­ties, such as Boston, the city did not adjust for cars when they replaced carriages; the cars, and their drivers, have had to work around the hin­drance of the city. Other means of transport, double­decker buses and the subway, are equally commonplace, as 
John Fischer 
Guest Columnist 
are the dangers that accompany them. 
The double-deckers, operated by sometimes maniacal drivers, have clearly visible dents up on the second deck, meaning that the driver either ran his bus into another, or else he is cutting the corners way too close. 

Meanwhile, threats of bombs, fire, and pestilence deter no one from casually stepping on the subway day after day. Recent events in New York City may or may not cause people to pause and think of the potential costs of such a convenience. 
The songwriter Daryl Hall wrote in 1976: "I never thought I'd be up this morning, But London is calling to me. 

I never thought that I'd feel this gone, I'd never be caught, never be caught so easily." 
As you sit in the dining halls munching chicken patties, 75 of your compadres are living and working in the heart of London. Despite impressions the reader may have formed up to this point in the article, we are not having a macabre, moody time. 
For most, this is a first time in London, a first time we've had certain freedoms and re­sponsibilities, the first time we've resided in co-ed housing, the first time living in the heart of a city, the first time we've been legal at age 19 or 20. 
Such a change of condition has lent a certain gravity to my thought. One cannot walk through Hyde Park, or sit on the stoop of a flat and watch people pass, or engage in intensive studies of Britain and 
its people without feeling such an effect. • 
One cannot live in such a contained community of 75 peers without having one's 
thoughts and demeanor affected. 
Living in a city with abundant resources for theatre-hopping and pub crawling, one cannot help but also have an extraordinarily good time. It will be difficult this spring semester to discard the notion that I can sto.p1 by North Dining Hall for a pint of Guiness on my way home from class. 
Since we receive a week's worth of Observers one week late here in London, I learned of the death of Jeff Engelmeier roughly one week after the rest of the campus and several months after the residents of Pangborne. 
I mourn his death not be­cause I knew him, but because I should have known him. As Jeff and I were in the same German classes for two years, I saw him nearly every day, though I rarely spoke to him. 
Of what use are success, a Notre Dame degree, power, and the like if we are unable to communicate with those still around us? 
John Fischer is a junior in the College ofArts and Letters. 
-





Accent 

page 10 



Paige Smoron 
Non Sequiturs 
Tune into 
'As the Dome 



Rotates' 

re you thirsting for smut, scandal, and honor code violations? 
Then be sure to tune into the new 
daytime drama, "As the Dome 
Rotates." 
Here are some scenes from last season's cliflbanger: 
"Hello, Ma?" 
"Oh GOD! Johnny, is that you? Are you hurt?" 
(Close-up ofMa, looking concerned.) 
"Well, actually, yes. I'm in the infirmary with extensive injuries sustained by a rampant 'Disabled Transit' golf cart. But that's not why I'm calling." 
"Oh GOD! Are you flunking something?" 
(Close-up ofMa, looking alarmed.) 
"Well, actually, yes. I've been caught plagiarizing a paper on Lenin, but that's not important right now." 
"Oh GOD! What is it?" (Close-up ofMa, having a coronary.) 
"Ma, I've decided to switch majors. Business no longer fulfills me. I want to be (dramatic pause) a PLS major." (Mocking strains of the Victory March.) 
"Oh GOD! What have we done to deserve this? Your father had to donate a library to get you into Notre Dame, and now you're going to throw it all away? Where did we go wrong? Why did you always have to be the rebel? What can we do to change your mind? Pick out anything in the J. Crew catalogue-it's yours." 
"I want Birkenstocks." "Oh GOD!"(Close-up of Ma, horrified. Cut to Liquid Draino commercial.) 
"Molly, I've followed you here to Jay's Lounge because it's time I make my intentions clear. It's no secret how I feel about you, and, well, I would be honored if you would consent to be-my SYR date." 
"Gee, Murph ..." 
"Sully." 
"Gee, Sully, I don't really like to dance." 
"I have a bottle of Southern Comfort. We won't need to dance." "Really, Fitz ..." "Sully." "Really, Sully, I think I might be having a 
spontaneous concussion that night." (Chilling strains ofthe Victory March.) 
"I won't take no for an answer." (Close-up of Molly, horrified. Cut to PH-Balanced Secret commercial.) 
"Mike, you mullet. You've been marketing illegal T-shirts that are more sexist, contain more references to alcohol, and have cuter depictions of Calvin and Hobbes than mine. You play dirty, and you're edging me out of business." 
"Tom, Tom, you've got me all wrong. I'm just giving the students what they want. Let's just say I have good fashion sense." 
"Sorry, Mike, I'm not buying it. Luckily, I'll have the last laugh. I have documented proof that you smuggled four Snickerdoodles out of South Dining Hall last Tuesday, and I'm not afnhd to use it." (Menacing strains of the Victory March.) 
"But-that's blackmail! How dare you threaten me?" 
"Face it-if you don't play ball, your chances for becoming section leader will be shot, and you'll face financial ruin. It's all over, Mike." 
(Close-up of Mike, horrified. Cut to a frolicking Pillsbury Dough Boy.) 
Will Johnny disgrace the family library, or will he compromise his values and order a berry turtleneck? Will Molly escape the drunken clutches of Murph-sorry, Fitz-sorry, Sully? And will Mike lose the (offensive) shirt off his back, or will he do the right thing and return what's left of the Snickerdoodles? 
Find out next time on "As the Dome Rotates." 
Paige Smoron is Assistant Accent Editor ofThe Observer. Her columns appear epery third Wednesday in Accent. 

By JASON WINSLADE 
Accent Writer 
A little known space exists on the third floor of Washington Hall. 
Previously reserved as a teaching area for acting and dance, as well as performance space for free student directed productions, the laboratory theatre is the site for the Com­munication and Theatre De­partment's production of "Night of the Assassins," a contemporary play by Cuban author, Jose Triana. 
The play is part of the de­partment's studio series estab­lished last year with the pro­duction of the Greek tragedy, "The Trojan Women." 
The addition of black curtains to the space last year has made the black box-like lab theatre a viable space for faculty-directed productions with budgets as sizable as the main-stage pro­ductions. 
The lab theatre setting offers the opportunity for an intimacy with the audience impossible with larger main-stage shows. Actors, directors. and technicians are also given the opportunity to work with less traditional works, which draw smaller audiences, as well as offering the opportunity for such works to be seen. 
With this criterion in mind, director Kevin Dreyer chose "Night of the Assassins" because of its challenging nature, both for actor and audience. 
The Observer I Gregg Massa Alyssa Moehle as Cuca, Christopher Murphy as Lalo, and Keri Latherow as Beba debate whether or not to murder their parents in 'Night of the Assassins,' opening tonight in Washington Hall. 





theater 
'Night of the Assassins' caters to smaller audiences 

Dreyer, who serves as faculty, technical director, and designer for the department, also feels that Latin American theatre, with its unique sensibilities, is mostly ignored by this country. 
Given permission by the author, Dreyer has written a new English translation specifically for American audiences. 
The story of a dysfunctional family, "Night of the Assassins," involves three older children, Lalo (Christopher Murphy). Cuca (Alyssa Moehle), and Beba (Keri Latherow) . The children, feeling trapped and stinted by their tyrannical parents, meet in their old playroom and decide the only means of escape is to murder their parents. 
At this point, the play de­parts from traditional narrative, as the characters enacting the process of building up to the murder, the murder itself, and the subsequent arrest and trial. Each character plays many different other characters in this process, including persons of other ages, nationalities, and genders. 
The play is unique in that it exists on so many levels, and the only information about the events is filtered through the three characters' perceptions. 
The resulting confusion and ambivalence as to whether or not the murder is performed and when, ultimately becomes the factor that will the affect the audience's interpretation of the 
Wednesday, November 6, 1991 
play. The reason for this in­tentional atmosphere of disorder, Dreyer notes, possibly stems from the author's desire to have the audience relate to the characters' daily confusion. 
The actors all agree that the play has offered significant challenges for them, especially in its non-realistic structure, and unmitigated intensity. Chris Murphy cites Lalo as one of his most challenging roles ever, saying "It takes a tremendous amount of energy and concentration to remain on stage for two hours and stay constantly within a very intense character." 
"Night of the Assassins" is certainly a show that will leave the audience thinking. 
"It contains information that all of us should be aware of, in our lives and in the way we relate to other people," says Dreyer. 
Although certainly a step away from the traditional, "Night of the Assassins" offers a unique and satisfying theatrical experience to all audiences. 
Performances are Wednesday through Saturday at 8:10 p.m., and Sunday at 3:10 p.m., in the Laboratory Theatre on the third floor of Washington Hall (accessible from the rear en­trance.) 
Tickets are sold in advance at the LaFortune Info Desk, and at the door. Admission is $5. Seats are general admission and limited to 100 people per performance. 



--~-~--------------~---------------------------------­
Accent

Wednesday, November 6, 1991 page 11 


The ultiiDate 


uzzle 
ND professors work on piecing together the Dead Sea Scrolls 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
Eleven caves. Hundreds of texts. Thousands and thousands of fragments. Piece them together and translate them. Ready ... go! 
It's the ultimate jigsaw puzzle. 
In 1947 the first of the famous Dead Sea Scrolls were discovered near Qumran on the northwest shore of the Dead Sea. 
Finding these biblical and non­biblical documents, which date from about 150 B.C. to 68 A.D., was a theological watershed event, for it marked the first significant textual finds of the Jewish/Catholic history-texts a thousand years older than previously known biblical works. 
Perhaps, though, actually finding the scrolls was the easy part. The next steps included examining handwritings and paper textures, pieeing the manuscripts together, translating the texts, and eventually publishing them. 
t\ monumental task by any standards. 
To complete this task, a small international team of scholars joined forces, divided up the material, and got to work. 
Eugene Ulrich and James Vanderkam, two Notre Dame theology professors, are part of that team. 
Ulrich is one of three general editors of the project and the chief editor of the biblical scrolls. 
"We (Ulrich and his own team) produce critical editions of the fragments," explained Ulrich. "We look at them and put them in Hebrew print (or another prescribed language) so ordinary people can havll a chance to see them." 
Working both from infrared photographs here at ND, and from original texts during periodic visits to Jerusalem, Ulrich's team is making progress. 
Their first volume is complete and due out early next year, and a second volume is expected to be finished soon after that. Further down the lin_n, Ulrich says, two more volumes are on their way. 
Vanderkam, a recent appointment to the Editorial Board, works as a translator with a separate team focusing on a portion of the "thousands and thousands of fragmented texts found in Cave Four," he said. 
More specifically, Vanderkam is working on a non-biblical text, comprised of eight manuscripts, called the Book of Jubilees. 
The book is a narrative work that includes stories of Genesis and Exodus, according to Vanderkam. 
"It was written in Hebrew in 150 B.C., then translated into Greek," he said. Both were lost until now. 
An Ethiopic translation of the work written in the Middle Ages has been available from another source, but as Vanderkam explains, "it is two removes from the original." 
Vanderkam, who wrote his doctoral dissertation on the Ethiopic work, now faces the laborious task of translation. 
"I translate the Ethiopic back into Hebrew and see if it fits into the gaps," he said. Usually, it does. 
As a translator, Vanderkam isn't responsible for actually piecing together the original manuscripts. That duty is taken care of by Joseph Milik, a Polish priest. 
At the end of 1989, Milik was assigned-materials from Cave Four. He knew of Vanderkam's experience with the language and was "happy to have help with the Ethiopic text," according to Vanderkam. 
Milik organized the fragments to the best of his ability, leaving "gaps" for Vanderkam to fill when there was no available scrap of writing. 
"Milik is truly amazing," said Vanderkam. "He's an incredible scholar working with a hopeless jigsaw puzzle." 
Both Milik's and Vanderkam's names will appear on the final published result. 
Recently, those working on the Dead Sea Scroll have faced criticism concerning the amount of time they have spent on the project and the fact that many of the manuscripts have not been made available to anyone outside of the project. 
Both sides have valid arguments, according to Ulrich and Vanderkam. 
"The last five or six years, people have been complaining about the slow pace in publishing documents," said Vanderkam. "But, it (finishing the project quickly) is not easy to do. 
"The number of original members was too small for the task . . . In the last seven years the team has been enlarged," he continued. 
"There has been too slow a process to a certain degree," added Ulrich. "But it's a very difficult project ... It isn't just outside people who realize the process is too slow; the team itself saw that problem six years ago." He stressed the difficulty in piecing together fragments and noted that measures are being taken to increase the pace as much as possible. 
Explaining the problem of public access to the scrolls, Vanderkam said, "People have been very annoyed that outsiders have not been able to see them." 
According to Ulrich, outside access to the scrolls is usually determined by individual editors. While he and some of his co-workers will usually share the manuscripts with anyone who asks, others have been more reluctant to do so. 
This reluctance is partially due to the "traditional operations within normal guidelines" and partially because of individual preferences, he explained. 
The unearthing of the Dead Sea Scrolls has been a discovery of utmost importance in providing further understanding of the early Hebrew people and their theological significance. 
"It is truly exciting," attests Vanderkam. As the number of translated documents increase, more and more theologians agree. 


page 12  Wednesday, November 6, 199  
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at th Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's effie 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classrlieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
-­ -­ -­ -­ -­ 
-­ EARN $2000 + FREE SPRING  Need 2 student or GA's for Tenn.  i need 2 TENN stud tix. Dave (slut)  $$$Help make Aunt Rita and Uncle  GETAWAY WEEKEND  
Notices  BREAK TRIPS!  Joe 277-9924  x1791  Len very happy! Need Tenn tix-stud  KOONTZ HOUSE  
North America's #1 Student Tour  or GA!-x1814  BED 'N BREAKFAST  
-­ Operator seeking motivated  -­ -­ 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE  
TYPING AVAILABLE  students, organizations, fraternities  For sale: 2 GA's/1 stu.  i need 1 TENNGA. Ruben x1803  -­ DAME  
287-4082  and sororities as campus  TENN. 3971.  Need 2 Tenn GAs or stud tixl  586-7090  
representatives promoting Cancun,  -­ Please Help!  
-­ Bahamas, Daytona and Panama  -­ Need GA or student ticket for TENN  Susan x4276  -­ 
Buy and Sell used books  City!  SELLING TENNESSEE STUDENT  game. Call Amy 283-1347.  stronger than burt  
Pandora 's Books-newbooks and  Call1-(800) 724-15551  TICKETS. LUIS: 273-1528  -­ 
the NY Times tool!  -­ 2 Tenn ST Tix for sale  -­ 
corner of ND ave and Howard  -­ -­ I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY  271-0702  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
233-2342/10-5:30 everyday  For Rent  NEED Tenn. Tix  GA TIXS.272-6306  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  
x4040  -­ for a quote 9:30-6:00,  
-­ -­ -­ I NEED SIX TENNESEE GA'S AND  289-1993. Office near campus.  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  -­ ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S  TWO STUDENT TIX FOR FAMILY  
237-1949  219-291-7153  NEED Tenn. Tix  TO ANY HOME GAME$  CALL DREW@ ?.789  -­ 
x4040  CALL COLLECT  SUMMER INTERNSHIPS!  
-­ -­ GA or Stud.  812-477-2627  -­ SUMMER INTERNSHIPS!  
*Notre Dame Video*  2 bdrrn house. $150 &  NEED TENN GAS. MONEY NO  PRESENTATION BY PAUL  
New Arrivals  $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159  -­ -­ OBJECT! Call Ron x2157  REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND  
-Dances With Wolves  Walk to campus.  Need TENN tix! x4282  I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC  PLACEMENT SERVICES  
-Doors  1310 South Bend Ave.  and Tennessee.  -­ TONIGHT 6:30 P.M. HAYES HEAL  
-Misery  -­ Chris 239-5713  Need 1 Tenn GA  AUDITORIUM. ALL INVITED.  
-Robin Hood  -­ '60 ALUM NEEDS 20R4 TENN  Call x2558  
-Silence of the Lambs  NICE FURNISHED HOMES  GA'S 2989 OR 272-3229  $$  -­ -­ 
Open Seven Days a Week  CLOSE NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  NEED PENN STATE TIX  -­ SUMMER INTERNSHIPS!  
4-11 PM  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6  -­ JOE X2341  Knoxville Alum wants 10  SUMMER INTERNSHIPS!  
Basement Lafortune  PEOPLE 2773097  HELP!$! Need 5 Tennessee GA's  tickets. willing to pay BIG  PRESENTATION BY PAUL  
Joe 289-6494.  -­ BUCKS$$. Call x3278  REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND  
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS  -­ TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS.  PLACEMENT SERVICES  
BEDROOM FOR RENT IN A HOME  -­ RANDY 800-323-7687.  -­ TONIGHT 6:30P.M. HAYES HEAL 'I  
Meeting for all interested in  $200/MO. USE OF ALL UTILITIES,  I NEED TENN. STUD'S OR GA'S  I need 2 GA's for Tenn. $$$  AUDITORIUM.  ALL INVITED.  
the French club Thurs 7th, 120 O'Shag, 7:30  LAUNDRY, ETC. CALL PAUL ROY 232-2794.  CALL CHRIS #1245  THANX  - -­Can you dig this! I am terribly  call Matt at 277-4673  -­ 
-­ interested in buying a Student ticket  -­ Andy conqured Sonic the  
SOlS LA OU SOlS CARRE!  -­ WANTED: TENN. TIX.  for Tennessee. Price is no object,  Big, Big $$$$for TENN Tickets :  HedgeHog  
2 Bed/2 Bath Condq, 1518 N.  STUD. & GA'S  unless of course you want more  Student and GA's  
-- Oakhill. 5 min walk from  PLEASE CALL MIKE AT  money than I am willing to pay you.  call x3302  ____.!;__  
Lost and Found  campus.  January avail.  256-7034  Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015.  On Thursday, Nov. 7, 1991  
References/Deposit 273  If Dave is busy his personal staff will  -­ 
-­ -1329.  -­ be happy to help you. Irish V:ball  I NEED 2 OR MORE TENN GA'S  JOE THEBY TURNS 211!!!  
LOST:  NEED ONE TENN GA TICKET;  rules!! I!!!!!!!!  OR STUDENT TICKETS  
A BROWN LEATHER JACKET AT  -­ CALL DAVE 283-1545  CALL BRENT  X1972  if you see him, wish him a good one  
SENIOR BAR ON HALLOWEEN  A quaint studio in lovely old  -­ and make sure to assist him in his  
NIGHT. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL  mansion 1/2 mile from N.D.  $225/  -­ will buy any  -­ pain. make it a night he can't  
JILL AT 283-4910  mo. plus deposit call 2879624  NEED 2 PENN ST TIX; DAVE 283­ tenn or navy  NEED 1 TENN. STUDENT OR GA  remember.  
1545  tix. john 1811  Call Beth x1346  
LOST: light grey Ariz. St.  -­ -­ 
sweatshirt sometime before  For Sale  -­ -­ -- Lando Lives  
Break ... maybe near Badin. If found,  I need 1 stud or GA ticket for  Need Tenn. st. or alum tix$$ please  I need, I want, and I covet  
call Jon #1854  -­ Tennessee. Call Henry at  call Dan x1740  -­ 
2 0/W TIX SB TO PHILA.  272-9326. If not home, leave a  Tennessee GA's  To Jenny and Brad:  
-­ NOV 14 $80 EA.  message.  -­ My co-workers in Hell ...  
LOST: GOLD CHAIN WITH CROSS  287-9676  Good afternoon, my friends.  Please, Please, Please, Please  We got through it, who needs  
ON SATURDAY AT GAME. CALL  -­ I have a small request which I hope  sleep? A few reminders:  
284-5093.  -- Ohhhhhhhhhhhh! Please help me. I  can be mutually beneficial to all  call Andy @ 233-9588  
'76 VOLVO 245 WAGON. 3 SEAT, 7  need 2 GA's for Tennessee more  involved. I desperately need 4 GAs  Non-sequitur  
-­ PASS. NO RUST OR DENTS. NEW  than life itself. I'm sure I can help  for Tennessee. If you have any at all  -­ Wrong! Next issue!  
Wanted  BRAKES, TIRES EXHAUST. 4  you out in return. For instance, I  please call Gina @ 2982. If I am  That's 1 very, 2 shorts.  
SPEED WITH OVERDRIVE. $1800  give great sax. If that isn't music to  unavailable, please leave a  I need 3 TENN GA's !I  Our overheads were cool.  
ALASKA SUMMER  OR B/0. 684-6129.  your ears, we'll work something else  message so I can get back to you.  call X4082  
EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn  out. Just call Matt at x2058.  Bring on Helene Curtis!  
$5,000-t/month. Free  Love, Lynn  
transpdrtationl Room & Board!  Must sell two very good tickets for  Need 2 UT-Notre Dame GA tickets  2 TENN GAS FOR SALE  
Over 8,000 openings. No  James Taylor concert, Friday 11/8,  NEED 4 TENN Tix-STUD or GA  Nov. 9. Call (704) 541-8845.  288-7341  
experidhce necessary. MALE or  Chicago, Arie Crown. Call Al239­ Little Known facts about DEBBIE  
FEMALE. For employment program  5378 or 273-1080.  Call Bill at -4186  SUS:  
call Student Employment Services  $$$ I need lots o' GA's for Navy  HELP!!! I need 2 TENN TIX!I!  1 . She is truly an SBF  
at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 118.  and Tenn. Call #3372 and ask for  (GA or married student)  2. Sleep is her hobby  
Tickets  Aaron or leave message. $$$  Please call Lynne X2614  3. She LOVES Tennessee  
Need Student or GA's for  4. She fantasizes about Resee's PB  
FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS  Tennessee.  cups  
Promote & Organize our Spring  i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE  Why  Call Sean 232-3296  Need Tenn GAs  Chris X2125  I NEED Tenn. GA or STUDENT For  5. TODAY IS HER BIRTHDAY!!!!  
Break tours.  All materials furnished.  don't you sell them to me? I am Jan.  ND Alum. call Liz 271-8311  Happy B-day Deb  Luv Tuna  
Good Pay & Fun. Call Campus  Call me for a good time, 277-6885.  
Marketing. 1-800-423-5264.  Need Tenn. Stud. & GA's.  I NEED 2 TENN GA5-LAURA  
Call #3718.  277-9158  HELPI!I  
Need 2 Tenn Ga's Dave T. x1750  HELP!  I'M IN NEED OF TENN GA TICS!  
Fraternities, sororities, campus  Wealthy Alum flying in from  Please call Alissa at  
organizations, highly motivated  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  FOR SALE: 3 TENN. GA'S. CALL  WILL BUY TENN  L.A. to see his beloved Irish one last  284-5319.  
individuals-Travel FREE plus earn  WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  JOHN 2473.  Mike 288-7458  time. Please don't let him down!  
up to $3000+ selling SPRING  Sell him your Tenn. G.A. or Stud  
BREAK trips to Cancun *South  ticket.  Call Mike P. at X2019  HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY JRI!  
Padre Island *Bahamas/Cruise*  FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME  ROUND TRIP TIXS TO HAWAII  NEED 1 GA TICKET FOR  Please!  WE LOVE YOU I!  
Acapulco 1-800-258-9191.  GAMES273-1802  FOR GAME CALL LORI:277-4293  TENNESSEE CALL X283-2831  LOVE 6B  
****$$$$$$$$$$$$$$***••••  
HEYNOWII  WILL BUY TENN  NEED TENN GA'S CALL CATHY  Need 2 TENN stud. or GA's.  **HELP! I NEED ONE TENNGA**  TO AL,MARK,CHRIS,BRIAN-THE  
I NE.ED A MIRACLE -1 or 2  MIKE 288-7458  232-5399  Call Lara x4918  *FOR DAD DRIVING 19 HOURS**  SLAMMER COACHES:  
DYLAN TIX. Jim 272-4541  *FROM BOSTON! WILL PAY TOP*  THANKS SO MUCH FOR ALL  
*DOLLAR PLEASE CALL  YOUR HELP THIS SEASON.  
I NEED 2 TENN GA'S OR STUD.  5 TENN. TIX FOR SALE.  $ I WILL MAKE A TRADE $  PATTY*****$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  YEAR, WE'LL GO ALL THE WAY.  
Gymnastic instructor to teach young  CALL MATT@ 1802  RICK 289-4622  X2126**  -LOVE, THE TEAM  
children. Must enjoy working with  I WILL TRADE LOTS OF MONEY  
children. Must also have your own  FOR 2 TENN GA'S X1737  
transportation. Will train, flexible  DESPARATELY NEED 4 TENN  I NEED 1 TENN. TICKET­ Need Tenn. G.A.'s  Norton-You're going to look mighty  
hours. Send resume to:  GA'S. IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL  STUDENT OR GA-$$$ CALL  Call277-6321  funny boy trying to eat corn on the  
BRYSON STAPLES  PAT X17671!1  KATHLEEN 288-9421  I have 1 Student Tenn ticket for  cob with no teeth.  
403 E. TERRACE DRIVE  sale, best offer. I also am in dire  -Donald Duck Dunn  
JEFFERSONVILLE, IN 47130  $$$ATTENTION Ticketholders:  **HELP..  need of two Tennessee GA's, call  Help! Need TENN Studs or GAs  
I need TWO Tennessee GAs  NEED TENN TIX BAD II  x1471.  Call Jim X1883  
so bad that I can taste them!  CALL BOB @ 289-6541  IRELAND PROGRAM STUDENTS  
Earn $2500 & Free Trips Selling  Big Bucks in it for YOU !I  NEED MAIL:  
Spring Break Packages To  Call DICE at x1751 $$$  NEED TWO TENN. GA'S  4 sale: TENN stud x4075  c/o MOLLY, AIMEE, EILEEN,  
Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica,  CHEAP! CHEAP! CHEAP!  CALL 287-3587  JENI  
Florida! Best Trips & Prices! Spring  2 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS TO  GERALDINE LODGE  
Break Travel1-800-638-6786.  Roses are red  HAWAII OVER THANKSGIVING  1 TENN std tckt for sale. Best  OLD GREENFIELD  
Violets are blue  CALLX3457  PLEASE help! Need Tenn. GA  offer! Kelly X4084  MAYNOOTH, CO. KILDARE  
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING  I'm schizophrenic  or Stud. tixl Call Sarah x4220  IRELAND  
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL  And so am I.  
YOU.  So I need an extra  Selling 1 student ticket for Tenn.  1 TENN STD FOR SALE  ROUND TRIP TO CHICAGO VIA  
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY.  Tenn. GA.  game. Call2855  One TENESSEE ticket needed  232-8230  UNITED LIMO!  
1-800-255-0242  Todd X2371  Please call Michelle at 2672  
You are eligible to win this  
Tenn tix  Have one TENN stud tix for  Personal  prize by volunteering at the SMC  
Riders needed to Buffalo area  Call Jim 232-3296  sale-Best Offer Mary x1759  Help Cure The Peutis Running  Student Phonathon, November 4­ 
leave: 27NOV return: 1DEC  Rampant in My Family I I I  14, 1991. Call Jean at 4582 to  
Please call Sherry x4717  I need Tenn GA's or stud  I am the Lizard King and I can do  up or for additional details! Free  
Greg 289-8917  I HAVE 2 GA, TENN  Sell Us Four Tennessee GA's  anything.  long distance phone calls! Free  
CALL 288-0730 EVENINGS  X3414  food! Free fun!  
LOOKING FOR a Fraternity,  
Sorority, Student Organization, or  H$LPI ON$ T$NN TICK$T  I am Sega Man and I can Do  Word processing IBM Compatible  
exceptional individuals that would  N$$D$DI CALL COLL$$N  Two Tennessee GA's are all I need  DESPERATELY NEED TENN TIXS  Anything!  Extensive experience w/ theses,  
like to potentially make $1 000.00 or  X4244  for happiness and a good karma.  CALL MARIA OR CRISTIN  dissertations, manuscripts,  
rTKll'e sponsoring QUALITY SKI and  Callx1471.  X3433  publications, senior projects, etc.  
BEACH trips on campus. For further  H~py birthday Joe Roberts.  Professional results!  
infonnation Call Mark at Orion  Need 4 tix for Tenn. 11/9 Big$ pd.  277-9273  
Tours, Inc.  Call 283-1897 Jim or collect 908  2 Tenn. marr. stu. tix for sale  NEED TENN STUD AND GA TIX  
1-800-800-6050.  449-0589.  277-5348  JOE X1835 X1836  Monica Eigelberger is a ho .  
..  


ednesday, November 6, 1991 The Observer 
page 13 

SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! DON'T FORGET: SUBWAY ATTENTION JUNIORS II ZAHM FOOTBALL: Your season SUMMER INTERNSHIPS! SESQUICENTENNIAL CUP NIGHT 20% OFF ALL PARTY SUBS has been a farce. Your safest 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL AT ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB II with college I. D., for the Please bring in your pictures (all bet on Sunday will be to leave on REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND WED. NOV. 6 ND!TENN game at the horizontal, no alcohol present) for your skirts and sleep 
Class PLACEMENT SERVICES $.5o-CUPS $1.00 TO FILL following locations: JPW slideshow to Student Activities late. If you show, update your 
TONIGHT 6:30P.M. HAYES HEALY 23 & IRONWOOD 277-7744 by Dec.2. insurance. We will bury you, AUDITORIUM. ALL INVITED. Is anyone going to the Detroit Rush N. 31 277-1024 Put name and address on back. you miserable worms. Your line is 
continued Iron page 12 concert Nov. 13 or 14? I need a INDIAN RIDGE 271-1772 weak. your receivers stupid, your SPRING BREAK IN CANCUNI ride. x4009 DOWNTOWN 2891288 defense sloppy, and your QB FEMALE STUDENT NEEDED TO REPRESENTATIVES WANTED. impotent. Stay home.Luv,THE COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATIONS Congratulations to the
PICK · UP AT 3:30 AND CARE ······················· VERMIN 
LARGEST AND MOST FLANNER TOWER GAMECOCKS Hey Siegfried I The METHA-TONES live I
FOR 7 YR. OLD 3-4 HRS. THEREAFTER. STAY 
SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK for their 8-0 shutout of Off-Campus Score 3 td's=keg NO's NY alternative band 
TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS in the IH playoffs. Les Mis-the Siegfried cast Look N Glass in Niles To da guys in da Born (330) ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS As Father Bill said, "You shut them A weighted Summers Eve Thursday-Sunday Come for Garth and grub tonight at OVERNIGHT 2 TO 3 TIMES A 
WEEK (MY HOME KNOLLWOOD/GRANGER AREA) 18 & over admitted 6:30 Yutl --da Grils 
REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE out, you shut them down, and YOU Marce Marc & the Funky Bunch TRIPS AND CASH I WE PROVIDE SHUT THEM UP I" Meet at 4:00, NOT 4:15 Call for directions 
AND DROP AT SCHOOL AT 8:30. EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL Eye of the Tiger 
START NOV. 13 THRU END OF 1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE GO'COCKS!!!! Rene sucked against PW Need 6 TENN GA's $$$ 
YEAR. WEEK OF X-MAS OFF. INFORMATION. KRUSH KEENANIIII Stadium-all the way in '92 ... Joan 284-4387 
(NEED FREOUENTL Y THEREAFTER). PAYS $100 
LATENOTICEIIIII The fun and exciting Pittsburgh Club 2 rings left in SMC computer lab. Thanks for the hard work, 
WEEKLY. MUST BE needs a freshman or soph. Contact Beth at 284-4246 friendships, and memories. Need as many Tennessee stud tix Dear Bo, 
RESPONSIBLE AND FLEXIBLE executive member! call Di x4861 for $$Reward -The Coaches as you can sell ... big $$$$$$$ Well we finally got to meet af\er the 

WHAT)S HAPPEN/ NG 
AT C[a.rissa. 
D nJ[ow ay 'sSMC Coffee House 
6.R:AND OPEN'LN6.
TONIGHT 
Nov. 6
8&/ Op.m. 

Up .m. -M-icinic:Jht CARROLL AUDITORIUM SPONSORED BY SAB tn the 'cLubhouse' ADMISSION $1 Brinc:J your Own M-u9 
REFERENCES. CALL DONNA @ 
......................... 
more info.

277-8269. 
SMC deniedbid "I've never been a number one man, but I have always been
Kearns

Special to the Observer 
solid in the top five." Kearns is also a very success­
continued from page 16 
ful member of the men's trackDespite a 8-3-2 record and a junior John Coyle. "He may not team in the spring. He excels in third place ranking within the 

be the fastest runner or the the 10,000-meter event and
NCAA's Division III Great Lakes highest finisher, but he will should be extremelyHegion, Suint Mary's College come through for you." competitive in his final season.
soccer team won't be making 
"He is the kind of runner who
plans for post-season play. 
will grind you down," added As the District meet loomsCoach Tom Van Meter's team Piane. "Then he will put in a ahead in the distance, Kearns islearned earlier this week that spurt to break you." maintaining the attitude he's
the region's two bids to the 
Kearns' secret is simple. had all along. He wants to turnDivision Ill championship tour­"I have always contributed in another solid performancenament were awarded to other my share and did what was ex­for the team and just enjoy theschools. Ohio-Wesleyan and 
pected of me," said Kearns. remainder of the season.
Kalamazoo were chosen. 
Clarissa Dalloway's 
Coffee House 
OPENS WED. NOV. 6 8 p.m. -Midnight 
Regular Hours: 
Wed.  Bp.m. -Midnight  
Fri.  2p.m.  -6p.m.  
Sat.  Bp.m.-Midnight  

at the SMC Clubhouse Bring your own MUG for a discount. 
Call Will@ 277-9468. game! 
to their fans, the Lady Knights are now on their way to the NCAA
FANS 
tournament. 

Irish coach Chris Petrucelli did 
continued from page 16 not feel his team was greatly 
bothered by the Central Florida 
cro~d ~ecause Notre Dame has had to deal with "hostile crowds" 
earher m the season at both William & Mary and Massachusetts. 
Last season, several hundred Rutgers students travelled to Tampa. Fla., for a weekend to support the Scarlet Knights at the ~en ~ soccer final four. They are planning to do so again this year If their top-ranked team makes it that far. 
Th.e bottom line is that the students at most schools en­thusiastically support their Olympic sports teams. Here at Notre Dame, the great majority of students do so for the football team but ignore the other sports. This is a shame, because they ar~ 
missing a lot of talented Notre Dame teams. . 
This afternoon the Irish women will capture the MCC champions~ip if they are able to defeat Butler. This season they have compiled a 14-2-3 record and earned their first ever national 
ranking, peaking last week at thirteenth. 
Yet these accomplishments have gone practically unnoticed as far as student attendance goes. The women's soccer team deserves a chance to feel what it is like to have a large crowd on its side and receive the recognition they deserve when they attempt to add the MCC title to their impressive list of achievements. 
American Red Cross +
. 

God gives each personone lifetime. What are you doingwith yours? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 

page 14 The Observer Wednesday, November 6, 1 
MCC title at stake for Irish in game vs Loyola 
Observer Staff Report 
First place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference is on the line tonight as the Notre Dame volleyball team hosts Loyola University at 7:30 p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish (16-7, 4-0) currently enjoy a season-high six-game win streak, highlighted by victories over 20th-ranked Louisville last Wednesday and a sweep of Ohio schools Toledo and Bowling Green-ranked seventh in the NCAA Mideast region-over the weekend. 
"We've spent some extra time the past couple of weeks on our passing, and the repetition has been paying off," said Irish coach Debbie Brown. 
Instrumental to the team's recent success has been the play of middle blockers Jessica Fiebelkorn, Molly Stark, and Cynthia May. Fiebelkorn was named MCC Player of the Week after compiling 36 kills, 20 blocks and 43 digs in the last three games. 
But now, the Irish go up against a Loyola (21-9, 3-1) team that comes in on a mini­win streak of two games. The Ramblers are led by Lori Miller, who has a team-high 372 kills and 258 digs, and Keri Childress (258 kills, 222 digs). 
A Notre Dame victory tonight would cinch it the top seed at the MCC Tournament in two weeks. The winner of the con­ference tournament receives an automatic bid into the National Invitational Volleyball Championship in December. · 
"A win gives us the best draw at the tournament, and it would be good for us going in confi­dent that we are the best team (in the MCC)." Brown said. 
AD 
continued from page 16 
made...that won't change the character or the essence of the stadium, and won't eliminate that tradition." said Rosenthal. 
Rosenthal does have a valid point, but the plan has largely been denounced by Notre Dame football purists who prefer to keep the 59,075-seat stadium just as Knute Rockne designed it. 
Rosenthal also addressed the fact that the Notre Dame-Penn 
• State game will be offered on pay-per-view television for the first time. He says ABC Sports' college football coverage, which tele­casts two regional games every Saturday, merits the change. Only half of the country will be able to see the game between currently the #5 and #9 ranked teams. 
"It's better of course to have the game on, if it's highly de­sired by fans," noted Rosenthal. "The cost will probably be un­der $10, we think about $7.95." 
The continuing debate over the Irish basketball team mov­ing into a conference was also brought up. Rosenthal com­mented on why the Irish have remained an independent for so long, even though they have been approached by nearly ev­ery big conference in the coun­try. 
"We have some major tradi­tional rivalries-we've been playing teams like DePaul for 70 years," he said. "If we were to join a conference, much of that has to change. One of the ways we communicate with our alumni is through our athletic teams." 



~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
UNIVERSITY FORUM Homosexuality at a Catholic University 
Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee & Student Union Board Ideas and Issues Commission 

The Homosexual Person 
and 

=atholic Moral Teaching 
Rev. John Harvey, O.S.F.S. 
Hayes-Healy Auditorium Room 122 7:30p.m. Tuesday, November 5, 1991 
Father Harvey has over 35 years of experience in the pastoral care of h01· ·sexual men and women. He is the director of Courage, a spiritual '"! ·n group for Cathohc homosexual men and women with chapters locw·'d acros.s the Un~ted States. He has written extensively on the moral and •astoral .tssues raJsed by homosexuality. These writings include over 40 ":ho ·tr!y arttcles, two shorter works, A Spiritual Plan to Redirect One's ~ •nd Pastoral Care and the Homosexual, and a recent book entitled The 
H~ •••~I '""'"'How "fbi.""'"""'""-'""· 
Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Comminee 
& 

Student Union Board Ideas and Issues Commission 
Forum 

Is non-recognition ofa homosexual organization inconsistent with the mission ofa Catholic university? 
A Discussion/Debate 
Ralph M. Mcinerny 
Professor of Philosophy 
Lawrence J. Bradley 
Assistant Professor of Management 
Galvin Life Science Building Galvin Auditorium, Rm. 283 
7:30p.m. VVednesda~r6, 1991 


-!r') "T 

Wednesday, November 6, 1991 The Observer page 15 
GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS
THE FAR SIDE 
II-~ 


@ 0 ~ cJ.! 
q,
0 
~ 
\ 

"Hey! I got news for you, sweetheart! ... In the physicist's library I am the lowest form of life on earth!" 
CAMPUS 
Wednesday
7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting. Room 202, Center for Continuing Education. 
8 p.m. University of Notre Dame Orchestra. Guy Victor, conductor. Washington Hall. Sponsored by music department. 
MENU 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Veal Parmesan Philly Sandwich Broc, Cheese, Rice Cssrl Bean Burritos Bkd Pollack Jardiniere Batter Fried Fish Swedish Meatballs/Mshrm Sauce Deli Bar 

CROSSWORD COUNSELOR'S CORNER 
Dear Counselor,  
One of the most difficult jobs  a college student faces is  
trying to manage stress. Juggling sports, homework, and  
one's social life is a tougher task than it might seem. I've  
talked to a number of people on campus who have expressed  
similar concerns. Everyone in my life seems to want so much  
DOWN  out of me, but I only have so much to give. Any suggestions? -Distressed  
1 Like Captain Ki dd 2 Ca 1iforni a city 3 Arm bones 4 Beer  Dear Distressed, While Notre Dame students obviously don't have a corner  
5 Compass point 6 Lectures 7 Conflicts B"Darn!" 9 Honest - on the stress market, it makes sense that you and your classmates occasionally get stress overload. Many students come from a high school experience where their name ended up with many entries in the senior yearbook. Uncles, aunts,  
10 Gratify 11 Imitated r1r. Ed 12 People of ancient Asia Minor 13 Smiles derisively 16 Fashion designer Bill ---­20 Query .23 Court room bodies 26 Ending for "ice" 27 Cato and Caesar,  priests, coaches, and other onlookers have nodded with speculative acknowledgement at your many and varied ac­complishments. In short you and your peers have been perked for peak performance in varied domains. However, one of the tasks of college, and ultimately life, is to make choices that keep us healthy and reasonably con­tent. Though you've been back-slapped for "doing it all,· and have even contemplated attempting to "have it all, • handling stress depends on your acquisition of the skill of not taking  
e.g.28 Flippers 30 Auld ----Syne32----Beach, Calif.  life ·all at once." So, how do you start making choices? Well, your confes­sion of having limits as to how much you can give is a great  
@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8818 ACROSS 25 Mr. Caesar 46 Fraternal memberTape recorder 26 Golf course hazard 47 Mr. Parkerbuttons 28 Swamps 48 Storage place7 Auto section 29 r1ou nta in c1imbers 4g Geological basin14 Treat badly 31 Types of food 51 Letters, in Athens15 Beirut's country 33 Dnassis, for short 52 Lungs16 Ranch worker 34 Calendar abbrevi­53 Repeat17 Paint solvent ation 55 S. American tribe1B Fernando -35 River in India 57 Attack (2 wds.)19 Disguise 38 Type of roof 58 Most depressed21 Great Lakes port 42 Canine tooth 59 Goes hurry-scurry22 To ---­(exactly) 43 Fixing a shoe 60 Perceives23 Singer White 45 German article 24 Sailor  35 Pygmalion's statue 36 Short socks 37 Begins to melt 38 Prayer books 39 Fatty 40 Slackens 41 Waste matter 42 Worship object 44 Meadow 48 Clothing categories 50 In­(stagnating) 51 Boy's school near London 52 Chess piece 54 "The Hairy -" 56 Curly's brother  place to start. Setting limits around how much and to whom you share your time and energy with is a positive life tool. Ordinarily, everyone can survive your decisions to protect your time investments. Beyond this skill there are the tried and true stress managers, like seven hour sleep minimums, relinquishing the wish to be perfect, and time set aside for exercise, quiet contemplation, and self-care. But that's for another letter. Good luck in the adventure of learning to say "no." You deserve to "live long and prosper" and setting limits will get you moving in the right direction. Send letters to Counselor's Corner c/o The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556  


Also don't miss 

Johnny Dangerously 
Nov. 7th •
Bo Deans 
and 

101 Dalmatians
in Concert 

Nov. 8th & 9th 
Cushing Auditorium H:OO & 10:30 PM Admission $2.00
Nov. 19th :00 PM Stepan Center 
Tickets on sale at LaFortune Info. Desk starting Nov. 7th for ND/SMC Students for $8.00 and Nov. 11th for General Public for $12.00. -~-=<L-LJ 
STUDENT UNION 1101\Hll 

Sports 
page 16 

By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
It takes someone special to motivate a group of guys to run multiple miles every day rain or shine. For the men's cross country team, that person is senior captain Pat Kearns. 
Kearns is the epitome of a good leader. 
"Pat has a great dedication and commitment to excellence," said Notre Dame coach Joe Piane. "He is pretty darned enthusiastic as captain and he has a real commitment to the team. When it's time to work, people know he's going to work." 
For the freshmen especially, his leadership and example is very important. 
"He lets us know up front how we have to do and how we should be doing," said freshmen John Cowan. "If guys aren't mentally ready for a race, he can tell. Then, he tries to say what needs to be said to motivate them." 
And he's a fun guy. 

"I want to run well, but I also want to have fun," said Kearns. 
The free-spirited art major also is the team barber and resident goofball. 
Kearns has compiled a long list of cross country achieve­ments in his tenure under the Dome. In his final year, he has proved to be a valuable asset to the team despite a rocky start. 
The day before the first meet of the 1991 season against Georgetown, Kearns came down with a nasty cold that turned out to be pneumonia and he dropped out in the middle of the race. 
At the National Catholic Meet, he finished in 11th place with a time of 24:41.8. He was the fourth Irish runner to cross the finish line. The following week at the Notre Dame Invitational, Kearns finished 17th overall and third for the Irish. 
His junior campaign was marked by a series of strong performances. He finished in fifth place against Georgetown, sixth at National Catholics, eighth at the ND Invite, and 
Where are all the fans? 
As the Notre Dame women's soccer team prepares to close its season today against Butler at Alumni Field at 3 p.m. one thing sticks out in my mind-the lack of fans at Irish home games throughout the season. 

There were several factors which contributed to Central Florida's 3-0 win over the Irish last weekend in Orlando: big­game experience, frame of mind and a home1 crowd. MIKE SCRUDATO 

.. 
Yes, that is correct, Central Florida Sports Writer benefitted greatly from a supportive--------­women's soccer crowd of about 600 people. This is completely unheard of at Alumni Field, where the average crowd for a women's soccer game this season has been around 50 people, most of which have been parents. 
In other words, there has been virtually no support from the student body, which is supposedly the heart and soul of the Notre Dame family. 
Anyone who has ever played a sport knows that a partisan crowd definitely make a difference. Not only can such a crowd inspire and motivate the home team, but it can also intimidate and distract the visitors. The athletes realize when the fans are there and when they are not. Fan support means something to them, and it can enhance their performances. 
This is exactly what happened on Saturday, as Central Florida played its best game of the game of the year, and thanks in part 
see FANS/page 14 
ninth against William and Mary. 
Probably Kearns' best race of his career at Notre Dame was at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships. With a steady pace, he captured the individual championship with a time of 25:32.1. 
The highlights of his sopho­more year include a fourth­place finish against USC and a fifth-place finish at the MCC championship. In addition, he was the third highest Irish fin­isher at the District meet. 
A knee injury on the second day of practice his sophomore year sidelined Kearns for the fall season, but a hernia opera­tion took him out for the whole year. 
"With the knee, we were treating the injury rather than looking for the cause," said Kearns. 
The success he has enjoyed is due in part to his running style. His running isn't flashy or fancy; it is just determined. 
"He's Mr. Consistency," said 
see KEARNS/page 13 
Wednesday, November 6, 1991 
Irish seek 1st MCC crown 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will conclude its season today at Alumni Field at 3 p.m. when they take on the Butler Lady Bulldogs. A win today will give the Irish, who enter the game at 14-2-3, their first MCC championship. 
The Irish will have to be careful to avoid another let­down following a disappointing weekend in Florida, but Irish coach Chris Petrucelli feels his team will be ready. 
"There is still a lot at stake," Petrucelli added, "It is the last game for the seniors and of course, the conference champi­onship." 
Currently, the MCC consists of four women's soccer teams: Notre Dame (1-0-1 in the MCC), Xavier (2-1-0), Dayton (1-1-1), and Butler (0-2-0). Currently, the conference title is awarded to the team with the best regu­lar season conference record. Next year the MCC will add three more teams: Loyola (Ill.), 
Detroit, and Evansville and the conference champion will be determined through a post-sea­son tournament. 
The Lady Bulldogs have com­piled a 10-6-1 record on the year and have won five out of their last six games. However, they have struggled against MCC competition, losing 4-2 to Dayton, and dropping a close 1­0 decision to Xavier. The Irish played Dayton to a scoreless tie and defeated Xavier, 2-1. 
The young Butler team is led by two freshmen, Chris Johnson and Kori Stiefvater. Johnson leads the team with eight goals and 13 assists, and Stiefvater is second with nine goals and two assists. 
The stingy Bulldog defense has only allowed 20 goals this season. Their goalkeeper is ju­nior Julie Murphy, who has posted a 1.17 goals against av­erage and six shutouts this season. 
"Butler plays a style very similar to ours," Petrucelli said, "They have good speed up front and like to attack. It should be an entertaining game." 


The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz Senior Pat Kearns has been a solid contributor to the Irish cross country team all year on and off the field. 
Rosenthal addresses ND athletic issues 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal touched on sev­eral important issues and topics during his speech on "The Future of Notre Dame Athletics," given at the Knights of Columbus last night. 
Rosenthal started by com­menting on the role of athletics at Notre Dame. He pointed out several lessons which are learned while participating in intercollegiate athletics, includ­ing working as a team and learning to work on and im­prove deficiencies. 
"All of that is supplemental to the educational process here at the university, it is the founda­tion for us even having an ath­letic program," said Rosenthal. 
In the speech, Rosenthal re­vealed one of his wishes for the the athletic program. 
"What is the #1 wish list that we have in terms of athletics here on this campus?" asked Rosenthal. "I have said that it is the building of a major in­tramural building. Something that will give us more basket­ball courts, more volleyball courts for recreational and in­tramural play here on the cam­pus. I think that's very, very important." 
The biggest issue addressed by Rosenthal was that of the proposed stadium expansion. He said the expansion is war­ranted due to great increases in ticket requests from ND alums. 
"This year we were able to honor the requests of alumnus to the tune of less than 50%," stated Rosenthal. "There were many more dollars sent back to the alums, because we couldn't cash their checks, than what we kept. That's a pretty alarming position to us." 
Rosenthal noted that the 
football games are "an excuse to come back to the university" for many alumni, and he feels obligated to give them this op­portunity. 
Due to increasing enrollment (This year's freshmen class was the biggest ever at NO), more and more of the alumni ticket requests will have to be turned down, if something isn't done soon. 
"If we're only giving ... half of the requests today," said Rosenthal, "That's going to drop to a third in the future." 
"For that reason, and for that reason alone, I am very much in favor of expansion of the stadium," added Rosenthal. 
To date, the main objection of the expansion plan has been a concern over upholding the tradition and mystique of Notre Dame Stadium, which was built in 1930. 
"I think an addition can be 
see AD/page 14 








