l I .
1\J.; 

VOL XXIII NO. 92 WEDNESDAY I FEBRUARY 13, 1991 
1 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Ethnic groups gain temporary access to club room 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
While University officials agreed to the temporary use of the Foster Room in LaFortune as a multi-cultural center and authorized ethnic groups to charge for events at Theodore's, students expressed concern that a committee dis­cussion of Theodore's use might delay its becoming a multi­cultural center. 
There was also a question concerning money budgeted to ethnic support clubs at Tues­day's open meeting to discuss SUFR's demand for meeting space. 
The Foster Room on the third floor of LaFortune will be available to campus ethnic clubs for the remainder of the semester, starting next Monday, February 18, as a meeting and lounge space, announced Patricia O'Hara, vice president 
MOSCOW (AP) -The Warsaw Pact, the Soviet-led alliance formed at the height of the Cold War and whose troops crushed reform movements in two countries, will dissolve its military structure by April, the Kremlin said Tuesday. 
The Soviet Union planned to change its relations with the six other members of the allj"ance to bilateral ties, said Vita y lg­natenko, a Kremlin spokesman. 
Hungarian Prime Minister Jozsef Antall said pact officials will meet in Budapest, Hungary, on Feb. 25 to formalize the action. 
"This will be a historical moment in the life of the na­tion," Hungarian Prime Minis­ter Jozsef Antall said. 
The agreement to end the military alliance apparently \viii coincide with the termination of Comecon. the bloc's trade or­ganization. Its formal demise also is scheduled at a summit of of Student Affairs. 
"Space is at a premium in LaFortune. It is especially hard to find space in midyear," said O'Hara, "but, I have always thought the request for space by students of color was a very reasonable request." 
O'Hara said that it would not be fair to make the Club Coor­dination Council (CCC) move at midyear, as one of SUFR's de­mands had orginally suggested, but that the Foster Room could adequately serve as a tempo­rary meeting and lounge area for ethnic groups. 
"It (the Foster Room) is at least as big, if not bigger, than the room the CCC has now. . . I do not have in mind that it will be used for this use next year and we will look into other lo­cations in LaFortune for next year, "said O'Hara. 
Not all students agreed that the Foster Room should serve as the temporary multi-cultural 
the group's heads of gov­ernment in Budapest at the end of February, the Soviet news agency Tass said. 
Hungary and Czechoslovakia were invaded by Warsaw Pact forces to crush reform move­ments in 1956 and 1968, re­spectively. For months, they have sought dissolution of the pact's military structure by June and abolition of the al­liance early next year. 
lgnatenko told reporters the dissolution would be completed by April. He said the Soviets hope the move "will reduce military confrontation in Eu­rope" and end the face-off be­tween '€astern and Western blocs. 
"We expect some reaction from the NATO countries," he said without elaboration. 
Since the collapse of Com­munist regimes in Poland, East Germany, Hungary and Czechoslovakia in 1989, Soviet center, however. Keith McCoy said, "I am not satisfied with your proposal of the Foster Room as a lounge. If we wanted just a lounge, we could lounge downstairs in the television room." 
Theodore's, with its dance floor and two off-set "wings", was repeatedly suggested by students as the location for a multi-cultural center next fall. 
O'Hara and Joe Cassidy, di­rector of Student Activities, agreed that the use of Theodore's as a muli-cultural center for next year could be among the possibilities dis­cussed by the committee now being formed to discuss the fu­ture use of Theodore's. 
Calvin Allen said, "Theodore's is big enough to accomodate a multi-cultural center. I would advise you look into that for next semester ... what I'm say­ing is the space is needed. The multi-cultural center, when it is 
officials have been calling for the transformation of Eastern and Western alliances from military into political organiza­tions. 
A NATO spokesman re­sponded to the Kremlin an­nouncement by saying, "It is up to the member countries of the Warsaw Treaty Organization .to decide upon their own future security policy and the rele­vance of the Warsaw Treaty Organization in this regard." 
NATO has stressed that the Western alliance, comprised of 16 democratic nations, should not be compared to the Soviet­dominated Warsaw Pact. 
Czechoslovakia's president, Vaclav Havel, suggested Mon­day that his country would co­operate more closely with NATO, calling the Western mili­tary alliance Europe's sole in­ternational body that follows democratic rules. 
approved, will be several years down the road. Theodore's is the only space of suitable size." 
"Our feeling is that Theodore's is a good size for us. It has the two wings. We don't have the access to Theodore's we would like to have ... We're not trying to take anything away. What we're trying to do is add something; basically there is nothing there." said Pedro Villegas. 
O'Hara was reluctant to commit Theodore's to such a use next year, but said that space, although not the Foster Room, would be found in LaFortune for next year. 
Cassidy said, "I endorse the idea of a multi-cultural center, I am just not sure it should go into Theodore's." 
Other students questioned the present restrictions on the use of Theodore's. Manuel Espino suggested that students should be able to use Theodore's with their own DJs and food provi­sions. 
Calvin Allen said that restric­tions about charging admission to Theodore's kept ethnic or­ganizations from using Theodore's currently because most of their big fundraisers charged admission. 
Students, seeking increased funding for minority clubs, suggested raising the student activity fee for next year so that more money could be budgeted to ethnic clubs. 
Espino said, "If tuition is be­ing raised at a rate of 10 per­cent per year, what is the problem with raising the stu­dent activity fee $10. Another $10 for the student activity fee isn't going to hurt us ... The more money we get. the more money we can generate. I think every ethnic support group should get at least $1000 be-
see SUFR I page 6 


Allied troops prepare for decisive ground conflict 
,--------, 

(AP)-Up on Saudi Arabia's northern desert frontier, meanwhile, U.S. and allied troops continued preparing for a decisive ground conflict. Ma­rine and Army units already stationed near the front have been breaking camp and mov­ing farther north. some almost atop the Kuwait border. 


OPERATION

Training goes on daily. In one exercise, a Marine unit fired DESERT STORM out a 100-yard-long coil of ex­plosives that would explode • Peace movement I page 7 ahead of advancing troops to detonate minefields and 
• Church against war I page 7 
destroy other barriers. 
Sporadic contact with the Iraqis also continued. One U.S. • Collateral damage I page 7 patrol spotted about 20 Iraqi soldiers crossing the Iraqi­Saudi border and called in ar­apartment houses, Kuwait's tillery fire that scattered the in­U.N. ambassador, Mohammad truders back to the north, the A. Abulhasan, told a news con­
U.S. command said. ference in New York. 
The Iraqis also were reported In other developments: pressing their preparations for •Kuwait's government-in-ex­ground war. In Kuwait City, ile rejected a demand by pro­troops have taken over homes democracy Kuwaiti activists for with basements and mounted speedy elections in a Kuwait 
artillery on the rooftops of freed from Iraqi control. 
Hall President's Council announces future plans 
By CARRIE DWYER 
News Writer 
Members of Hall President's Council met Tuesday to report on various upcoming events being planned for the University. 
The Hall President's Council also discussed additional related news issues. 
Among the items discussed: 
•Christmas in April sign-up sheets were collected. 
Following the collection, the dorm representatives were asked to encourage participation within the dorms. 
•Sowder Award and Rector of the year proposals are to be submitted by March 19. 
•In 
response to student interest, HPC announced that they are currently considering the organization of another Hogstock to take place. The Hogstock is being considrered to take place after the Fisher Regatta in April. Co­sponsoring the event would be former Holy Cross Hall residents. 

•The 
student body president from the Catholic University in Chile will be here to speak on February 18. 


The speach will begin at 6 

p.m. in the Notre Dame Room at LaFortune. The event is being sponsored by Student Senate. 
Wednesday, February 13, 1991

page 2 
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Forecast tor noon, Wednest:lay, February 14. 
Unes snow higll tempetatures
WEATHER REPORT
Price hikes cause mail stamp-ede 
As part of their effort to confuse and bewilder the American public, the Postal System has raised the value of a first-class 
fu stamp. Again. M . y t 
I certainly don't blame omca an them. As it is, mailing a As~oc. News letter is just about the best Editor deal around. For 29-cents, ------­words of wisdom, praise, or regret can be sent anywhere. 
Whether it's a "Dear John" or a "Congratulations, Monica Yant, You Are The 
........,-Cold front {!!)High pressure mJ Showers~ Thunderstonns{3
Latest $10 Million Dollar Winner," or a chain 
.......... warmfront
letter promising "Bad Luck For the Rest of Your Natural Life If the Chain Is Broken," you 
........... Static front <E) Low preii&Ure ~ Rain .[;} Flurries § can be sure your message will be received for 
®1991 Accu-Weather, Inc.
a bargain-basement price. 

.. 

Snow-(:f Sunny ~ 
Ice ~ Cloudy Pt. Cloody 
FORECAST: 
Rain changing to snow later today with a high near 38. Cloudy Thursday with light snow and a high in the lower 30's. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  69  46  
Atlanta  56  39  
Berlin  27  19  
Boston  34  24  
Chicago  29  19  
Dallas-Ft.Worth  66  54  
Denver  61  29  
Detrort  27  14  
Honolulu  82  75  
Houston  79  59  
ndianapolis  32  t7  
London  37  30  
Los Angeles  85  61  
Madrid  45  32  
Miami Beach  76  56  
~oscow  18  07  
New Orleans  69  46  
New York  39  18  
Paris  34  32  
Philadelphia  38  21  
Portland. Ore.  57  41  
Rome  57  46  
StLouis  51  29  
San Francisco  68  50  
South Bend  36  14  
Tokyo  52  37  
Wash•ngton. D.C.  42  23  


But raising the price of the stamp again has thrown people off-guard. Just wheq we thought we had enough 25-cent stamps to last 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
a lifetime, they throw these 4-cent additions 
at us. And all hell breaks lose. First of all, they should have known better 
NATIONAL 
than to do it before Valentine's Day. With the rush of sentimental mush to be sent, all the 
Resentencing for Bakker 
bleeding hearts must have made a beeline for · •RICHMOND, Va.-The judge who gave Jim Bakker a the nearest Post Office. 
45-year prison term was influenced by his religiousSecondly, they should have stocked up on beliefs, said an appeals court that ordered the former the new stamps and the 4-cent equivalents. I television evangelist resentenced on Tuesday. The 4th 
understand that at some point last week, 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond upheldSouth Bend had actually sold out of stamps. 
Bakker's 1989 conviction on 24 counts of mail fraud,
The machines in LaFortune have been 
wire fraud and conspiracy. But the three-judge panelbombarded as well. For those who were quick threw out the sentence because of remarks made by U.S. 
to load up on 4-cent stamps, the sad reality is District Judge Robert D. Potter at the sentencing hearing an extreme shortage of 25-centers to match in Charlotte, N.C. The court ordered that Bakker be them to. I actually made a deal yesterday with resentenced by a different judge.Bakker's lawyers said a fellow stamp-buyer: I sold her $1.88 worth they would try to get him released on bail until he is of 4-cent stamps just to get them off my back. 
resentenced. 
I suppose there's no logical solution, since as soon as we· adjust to the new rate, they'll raise it again by some equally odd rate like 2.12-cents. But the whole fiasco reminds me 
OF INTEREST 
of a scheme I heard back in high school. Don't 
ask me if it works, or if it's legal. (And don't 
•A van drivers training seminar will be offered for all hold me accountable if it isn't.) 
those who have not previously attended and are planning A friend wanted to send a letter, but didn't 
to request use of Center for Social Concern's vans. The have a stamp. She was desperate, so she 
course will be offered on Wed., Feb. 13 at 5:00 p.m. and devised a method to mail letters for free. She 
on Thurs., Feb. 14 at 4:30 p.m. at the Center. This simply addressed the letter to herself, and put 
seminar is mandatory for all esc van drivers. her friend's address as the return address. Instead of mailing the letter from home, she 
•seniors make a year of volunteering one of your dropped it in a local mailbox. Lo and behold, 
options following graduation. Carol McCollester, O.P. '82, community. 
the letter arrived at her friend's home, with 
representing the Eucharistic Missioners of New Orleans. the words "Return to Sender: Insufficient 
will be on campus to answer your questions February 11, Postage" stamped on the envelope. 
12, 13th. Library concourse 10-12 noon. esc 1-5 p.m. 
Is there a moral to this story? While the 
trick worked for her, it's doubtful that trying 
•Irish Outdoors will be holding a mandatory meeting to trick the Post Office would work on a 
for all those interested in going canoeing/backing to GA consistent basis. Sooner or later, we would 
for spring break. Approx. cost of trip is $100.00. Meeting have to break down and buy the stamps. It's 
will be held Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Dooley Room. p.m.
sad, but true. 
Some people, like my friend, really want to 
•sophomore Literary Festival hosts Southern novelist beat the system. But, as the stamp prices, and 
Barry Hannah at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Hannah will history, indicate: it's not a system that can be 
speak and read from his works. Two of his most famous beaten. 
creations are Captain Maximus and The Tennis 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
Handsome. 
are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•The Computer Applications Honor Society will present a panel discussion with current students who have had work experience with working for major com­panies such as Eli Lilly, Dow Corning, The Travelers, Aetna, and Andersen Consulting in the Library Auditorium Lounge on Wednesday, February 13 at 7 p.m. All are Welcome. Theology. 
Tuesday's Staff 
MARKET UPDATE
News Sports Systems 
Joe Moody Rich Kurz Mark Sloan 
Christine Stephan Mike Murphy 
Production 

Accent Kristin Lynch Graphics 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 12, 1991 
Shonda Wilson Ann Buff Pat Midden 
Gerrie Hamilton Jake Frost 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX Melissa Cusack Viewpoint 
256.15 Million 199.43 ~ 1.42 
Rich Riley Circulation 

S&P COMPOSITE 
Ad Design Bill O'Rourke 
365.50 {> 3.08
Doug Bronsing Scoreboard Man Novak 
Traci Hupp Rene Ferran 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS infant son
Kevin Hardman 
2,874.75 {>-27.48 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD ..Q. $3.00 to $ 367.1 Ooz.
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
SILVER {; 14.8¢ to $ 3.685/oz.
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Manlfluilt~ of desecrating flag 
•R~SE 
LVILLE, Ala. -A man has been found guilty of desecrating the American flag for having one wadded up in a coat pocket while he and his wife distributed fliers protesting the Persian Gulf War. Franklin County District Judge Ben Richey ruled after about three hours of testimony Monday that Barry Carpenter, 23, of Russellville, had committed the offense and fined him $100 and court costs. Carpenter's attorney, Chris Smith, said the ruling will be appealed. The U.S. Supreme Court has said burning a flag as part of a political protest is a protected form of free speech. Both Carpenter and his wife, Chyrel, 21. had faced several charges, but all but the flag desecration count against Carpenter were dropped. Both defendants 

•Joint 
Engineering Council meeting will be held tonight. There will be a Presidents' Meeting from 6-7 


p.m. and a meeting for all other members from 7-8 p.m. in the Engineering Student Center, Cushing. 
•CILA 
is holding its weekly meeting tonight at 6:15 at the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome, good friends and an opportunity to live out service in Christian 

•Attention 
all seniors: A representative from the Good Shepherd Program will be on campus today, February 13, and tomorrow, Thursday February 14. Come ask Fr. Graham McDonnell any questions you may have about this program which involves teaching in Japan for one year. Fr. McDonnell will be in the CSC from 10 a.m.-5 

•Professor 
George Lopez, Faculty Fellow, Institute for International Peace Studies; Associate Professor of Government and International Studies will speak on and lead discussion about Catholic traditions on formation of conscience. Thursday night, 7:30p.m. Tom Dooley Room, 1st Floor LaFortune Student Center. all are welcome. 

•Robert 
F. Drinan S.J. Professor of Law, Georgetown University/ and former member of congress, will lecture on "Christianity and Human Rights: Challenge for the Church" on Wednesday, February 13, at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Liss Lecture, Dept. of 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1633: The Italian astronomer Galilee arrived in Rome for trial before the Inquisition. 

• 
In 1920: The League of Nations recognized the perpetual neutrality of Switzerland. 

• 
In 1935: A jury in Flemington, N.J., found Bruno Richard Hauptmann guilty of first-degree murder in the kidnap-death of the 


of aviator Charles Lindbergh. The verdict carried an au­tomatic death sentence. 
• 
In 1945: During World War II, the Soviets captured Budapest, Hungary, from the Germans after a 50-day siege. 

• 
In 1982: The UAW traded wage and benefit concessions for job security in a new contract with Ford. 


Wednesday, February 13, 1991 The Observer page 3 

Women's role in Church discussed 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 
Revolutionary ideas about the role of women in the Catholic Church date back as far as the first appointed American bishop, said Sr. Mary Ann O'Ryan speaking for the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism Tuesday. 
O'Ryan used excerpts of her dissertation research in leading the discussion "John Carroll, 1st Bishop of Baltimore and his views on Women." 
O'Ryan's research has fo­cused on bishops who have written Pastoral Letters. O'Ryan summarized Carroll's letter and highlighted his points on marriage, duties of parents, and the education of girls and women in religious vocations. 
According to O'Ryan, Carroll never specifies a distinction be­tween the expectations of men and women in marriage and parenting. O'Ryan said that "one would expect a much more prudish attitude towards women ... there is not a hint of that [in the letter.]" 
O'Ryan even gave an example from the letter which discussed the issue of wayward priests. She stated "there was no casti­gation of the women when we would assume the bishop would want to protect his priests." Carroll wanted women to play an active role in the teaching of Church doctrine, especially to young girls, as well as praying for the Catholic institution. 
O'Ryan emphasized that Car­roll's views must be taken in the context of the time that they were written. At specific instances, "Carroll was echoing American society at that time, "she said. 
Carroll joined the Jesuit min­istry in France in the mid­1700s. When the French began the oppression of the Jesuits, Carroll came to the United States and resided in Balti­more. He received his appoint­ment from Rome as bishop of Baltimore in 1790. 
O'Ryan is currently working on her masters in history at Loyola University in Chicago. She will be teaching there next fall. 
The Observer/ john Rock 

Sr. Mary Ann O'Ryan shown speaking during a discussion on Catholic views of women throughout history. The discussion took place yesterday and focused on Pastoral Letters of Bishops. 
Wilson says Irish strife springs from politics, not religion 
By DAVID ZIRINGER News Writer 
From politics, not religion, does Irish strife spring, said Father Desmond Wilson last night. An advocate for the unemployed 85 percent of North Ireland, Wilson directs a parish and a community educa­tion center in West Belfast. 
Wilson rejected the tradi­tional view that current hostili­ties in Ireland derive from Catholic versus Protestant sen­timents. Conflict, he said, arises "not from bigotry, but a very carefully honed strategy" of the English government to divide Irish factions. 
Citing a "regular pattern of persecution" over the the past 120 years, Wilson said that the English-manipulated North Ireland government attacks its opponents about once every twelve years. 
Then, about every ten years, pubic rebellion strikes at the regime, for "people can not tol­erate a lack of power forever. They make power through revolution," said Wilson. 
The government, he ex­plained, applies economic and political weapons against its detractors. Economically, it impovershes its opponents, the further emaciate political dissi­dents. Only property owners may vote, and the government insures that its supporters are the property owners. 

According to Wilson, the North Irish have attempted means of protest against the government other than vio­lence. Civil rights activism, as well as public-education drives, were intended to "persuade the people against a one-party gov­ernment." Only a tighter stran­glehold resulted. 
This 1972 crackdown in­spired Father Wilson to seek resolution beyond government aid. Through a variety of pro­jects, including his current community center, Wilson en­couraged the people to educate, shelter, and employ themselves by establishing new industry. 
Despite the people's initia­tives, however, the government, "at gunpoint, told the people they had three weeks to find new businesses," Wilson stated. 
"Some of the people died, others were tortured, all were denigrated and insulted." Since 1988, the government, 
majority of whom are Catholic, regions, continued Wilson, the seeing the community center's 
by driving industry from their government closes those facto­success, has poured millions of 
communities. ries, stranding the unemployed pounds into Wilson's latest at­When these families then mi­in ghettos. tempt. He explained the gov­
grate to other industrialized He said voting constraints ernment "did it in order to get 



is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 

A ff Votes Points Sarin 1 85/68
Ad Design Manager-An enthusiastic and computer­
oriented person is needed to use her creative talents to 
Lewis 92/97 
produce high quality and professional ads for 
Morr. 2 87/90
Observer clients. Macintosh experience is a plus. 
P.E. 0 59/74 
Keenan 2 81 /81
Art Director-A motivated person is needed to use his 
creative talents in the areas of both computer graphics 
St. Eds 1 83/86 
and illustrations. Applicants should have examples of 
Zahm 0 72/80
illustrations and experience with Macintosh graphics 
Grace 2 2 78/78
programs. 

Badin 1 72/77 
Production Manager-An energetic and enthusiastic 
Flan. 1 82/70 
leader is sought to manage, the computer-aided design 
Pangborn 1 80/81
of the newspaper. Experience with Macintosh desktop publishing programs is preferred. 
Applicat!ons should be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 pm Fnday, Feb.l5. Questions about these positions should be directed to Kelley or Lisa at 239-5303. 
control." But, by this time, "people had learned to get in­dependence no matter what happens." 
England, according to Wilson, has maintained its hold on Ireland for fear of economic competition and even military threat. 
In the shadows of World War II, Wilson and his high school friends decided "there must be a better life than this." Many of them joined the priesthood in hopes of bettering their coun­try. 
However, after teaching col­lege for 15 years, Wilson said he "hadn't known what was happening" in his land until he obtained a parish in West Belfast. 
He became disillusioned with the theories of education and a "church not in the business of helping reduce the conditions of poverty." At times, "I felt there was no point." 
After feeling abandoned by the institutions he had so long embraced, Wilson entrusted in people-power. Instead of wait­ing for the government to in­tervene, "the people can do it themselves to an ex­tent...control their own work." 
Neg  Votes  Points  
Flan.2  1  82/80  
Sieg.  1  86.5/84  
Grace 1  0  84/80  
Breen  2  81 /8 0  
Cavan.  0  010  
Alumni  1  86/80  
Lyons  2  82/82  
Stanford  0  0/0  
Carroll  1  80176  
Knott  75/70  
Dillon  1  83/70  

page 4 The Observer 
Peace Support Group meets 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
One of the signs around Saint Mary's inviting students to a Peace Support Group meeting was met with antagonism. 
An anonymous response writ­ten on the sign said: "We are at war! There isn't going to be a peaceful solution! If you think
I 
I 
I there can be, you're being un­realistic. World peace would be nice but this is reality, kids.
I 
Why don't you get used to it and support your governmentII and troops?" "All of us here (at the meet­ing) are here for different rea­
\ 
sons but would like to have a peaceful solution," said one student concerning the remark. 
Ann Clark, professor of phi­losophy, agreed that "we sup­port our troops-we want to bring them back alive." Fur­thermore, she stressed the im­portance of students making their voices heard. 
"You have to be courageous," Clark said. Students have "the ability to talk since you're not working. You can't go into Mc­Donald's and make a statement without suffering the conse­quences. 
The topic for discussion was the article "Persian Gulf War Fails to Qualify as Just. " Sev­eral points were brought up by the author Robert F. Drinan concerning circumstances un­der which war is just. 
According to Drinan, the seven norms for a just war originated by St. Augustine, defined by St. Thomas Aquinas, and synthesized by Suarez and others require: 
1. The war must be declared by a legitimate public authority possessing the power to do so. The action of the U.N. Security Council with regard to the inva­sion of Kuwait may have ful­filled this requirement. 

2. 
A real injury must have been suffered. The injury done by the invasion of Iraq to the nation of Kuwait inhabited by 400,000 was real. 

3. 
There must be a reason­able hope of success. The allied strength of 27 nations should be able to vanquish Iraq in a military engagement. 


The other four conditions that 'are not and cannot be met are: 
1. 
The traditional definition of a just war, in Catholic doctrine, requires that every possible means of settlement must have been exhausted. The commentators go to great length to point out that war can be tolerated only after there have been comprehensive efforts to exploit every possible method of obtaining a peaceful settlement. 

2. 
A second condition is moral intention. Jurists and moral theologians indicate that a nation must be waging a war, not for some selfish reason, but for a humanitarian objective. 

3. 
A third requirement that is difficult, or impossible, to fulfill, is that only legitimate and moral means be used in prose­cuting the war. 

4. 
The fourth requirement for a just war is proportionality, that is, the good to be achieved must outweigh the harm done. 


The group conceded that the 
morality claim is a tough one to 
fill. Junior Peggy Abood said 
that "morality is pretty much 
what anyone says it is." To ad­
dress the problem itself, Abood 
stated, "What can be done in 
the Middle East is not to discuss 
and debate the philosophical 
wrongness of it. Peace Plans 
have been presented by Iran 
and people may take this 
(ceasefire) seriously." 

A suggestion was made by Clark to take "a leap of imagi­nation into another frame of mind (peaceful) that we're try­ing to get people (interested in)." 
According to Clark, at the University of Texas, there was an unorganized event called Gentle Thursday. Every Thurs­day the students engaged in "non-war types of behavior. There was a serious point be­hind it, though. (It would pro­vide) a contrast between what is going on in the Middle East and what we would like life to be like," Clark explained. 
Some of the activities were covering everyone with flowers, passing out balloons, kite fly­ing, public friendly relations with people of the opposite sex, and visits from General Her­shey Bar, who had chocolate missiles on his hat. 
"How would you feel if a ROTC member approached you in uniform and offered you a flower sticking out of the barrel of a gun?" someone asked. 
Blowing bubbles in the dining hall was a popular idea for a modern-day Gentle Thursday. 
The next meeting of Peace Support Group will be February 18 at 8:00 a.m. in the Science Hall room 105. 
Wednesday, February 13, 1991 

Reforestation group needs volunteers to help project 
Special to The Observer 

The Uving Earth Reforesta­
tion Project is a not-for-profit 
organization dedicated to 
rural reforestation. It is 
currently seeking volunteers 
to help plant 2,000 seedlings 
on April 20th on four sites 
south of Mishawaka. 

Living Earth's strategy is based on the belief that the primary factors which discourage landowners from reforesting their lands are the cost and effort involved in purchasing, planting and maintaining the trees. The group's plan is to purchase seedlings with funds raised from private donations and reforest private lands at no charge to the landowner. Vol· unteers from the surrounding community will be recruited and mobilized to do the actual planting. 
Living Earth believes that losses of forests in distant lands can be directly compen­sated for by massive reforestation at the local level. The sole purpose of the reforestation project is to plant trees on a large scale starting immediately. With the planting of 2,000 seedlings this spring the groups will reforests five acres. However. it plans to grow quickly and plant 10,000 seedlings next spring to reclaim 25 acres for the living earth. The group's mission reflects the concerns and frustrations of area residents over the continued degradation of our global environment. The group's main concern is global 
warming and they believe 
that many people feel 
powerless to halt global 
deforestation or the global 
burning of fossil fuels. Trees, 
after all. are the very agents 
that remove pollutants from 
the air. Living Earth hopes to 
be able to offer local residents 
a chance to feel empowered 
to influence these global 
issues. 
The success of the project rests on the support it receives from the community. Every citizen of the county has the ability to help the project succeed. People can donate items such as old buckets and any tools that can be used for digging or cultivating. The group also needs some larger items such as old mowers, weed eaters, roto tillers and even old pickup trucks. Volunteers will participate in planting the seedlings and performing many other tasks. Financial donations are also needed. 
People interested in planting seedlings or making a donation to Living Earth Reforestation Project should call Conrad Kramer, Project Coordinator at 291-5814. Or write to: Living Earth Reforestation Project, P.O. Box 1561'. Mishawaka, IN 46546. 
The group holds a monthly organizational meeting on the first Wednesday of the month at the River Park Branch Li­brary at 2022 E. Mishawaka Ave.que in South Bend. The meeting starts at 7:00 p.m. and all interested persons are encouraged to attend. 

SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS 
AI{E YOU INTERESTED IN HELPING TO l\1ANA(;E Al\ ACCOUNT FOR $410,000'! 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT NEEDS YOlJ AS TilE ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER. 
THE-ASSISTANT STUDENT BODY TREASURER AIDS THE STUDENT B()DY TREASURER IN DISBURSING FUNDS F()R: 
-STUDENT GOVERNMENT -STUDENT UNION BOARD -HALLS -CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
THIS IS IN PREPARATION FOR YOUR BEC()MIN(; THE §ulUJlD~Erf1J' :.BCDJ]))Y :ri~lE.~§UJJRJEJE THE f()LL()\VING 
YEAR. 

APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE STUDENT (;OVERNMEl\T SECRETARY'S OFFICE 2ND FL()()R. LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 8-5:00 Pi\1~ DUE 0 N THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2 1 , BY ..t: 0 0 P !\'1. 
QUESTI()NS, CALL 239-7417 
. ~ 
Wednesday, February 13, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Khalidi: Real goal of war is to destroy Iraqi military 

By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News writer 
Heavy political repercussions can be expected in the Middle East regardless of the actual outcome of the war, according to Professor Rashid Khalidi of the University of Chicago. 
In a lecture sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies, Khalidi cited changing war aims, the United States' conduct in the war, and the final result of the conflict as major contributors 
·to the expected turmoil. "This is something that has really not been explored sufficiently since the Gulf conflict started last August," Khalidi said. 
Listing the U.S. goals in the war effort, Khalidi placed the liberation of Kuwait third be­hind the destruction of Iraq's military assets and the elimina­tion of Saddam Hussein's regime.
AP Photo 

In defending his opinion, he
Call for Holy War 
reminded the audience that at the beginning of the war, only
Over a thousand Muslims raise their arms and chant for a "jehad" or holy war against the United States 
Kuwait's liberation was
and its allies, Monday in Dhaka, Bangladesh. 
"formally, officially, avowed by President Bush." Now all three 

are readily accepted as real ob­
jectives, he said. 
Stressing the rapidity with 
which war aims can change, 
Khalidi stated, "These may not 
be the same objectives three, 
six, nine weeks from now, how­
ever they were Bush's goals 
from the beginnings of the 
conflict." 
As the war continues, tactics 
and strategies the U.S. pursues, 
specifically the massive air as­
saults against Baghdad and 
Basra, will have far reaching 
consequences, Khalidi said. 
"There's a grey area where 
military infrastructure ends 
and non-military ones begin." 
He elaborated on this point, 
citing the city of Basra as Iraq's 
military headquarters since 
1980, as well as it's second 
most populous city. Thus, while 
the number of military targets 
in Basra are plenty. civilians 
abound. 
When added to the fact that 
the majority of U.S. weaponry 
isn't "the Nintendo pabulum 
we've been getting on our tele­
vision sets like smart bombs 
and laser guided missiles, but 
regular, dumb, iron bombs 
which are very destructive but 
not very accurate," Khalidi 
warns the potential for civilian 
casualties is great. 
Such conduct of war could come back to haunt the United States, said Khalidi. When asked about nuclear weapons, Khalidi said that, "While the temptation to use nuclear weapons may be great," if the ground war goes bad, such a move would be, "morally outrageous, "and could be con­sidered a war crime. 
Khalidi discussed several sce­
narios for the future of the war, 
none of which bode well for the 
"new world order" President 
Bush envisions: 
If the Iraqi army collapses and surrenders, "the whole country may legitimately fall into a state of anarchy," creat­ing a massive foreign policy problem, Khalidi said. 
If the Iraqi government col­lapses, a struggle for power would ensue as rival political factions, suppressed for a decade, resurface with Syrian or possibly Iranian support. 
Khalidi further said that if either the army or the govern­ment successfully resist Amer­ica's efforts to oust them, an Iraqi victory over the U.S. would be perceived among the Arab nations. 
Finally, Khalidi commented that an extended Gulf War would worsen the United States' already tarnished image in the middle east. "By destroy­ing Iraq in order to liberate Kuwait, the U.S. will create enormous animosity toward it­self." 

American Heart ft Association V 
I 
t i t 
( 
I 
MIAMI (AP)-A prominent forensic psychiatrist who, for three decades, has been a court witness testifying about defen­dants' mental health now in­tends to try to prove that he himself is criminally insane. 
Dr. Michael Gilbert, 75, is ac­cused of trying to bribe a police officer. He allegedly told the of­ficer he wanted to find a hit man to kill the father of a child he believed was being abused, then told an undercover officer he wanted the man framed on drug charges. 
At least three defense experts are ready to testify that Gilbert is insane, arguing that years of working around the criminally insane left him saddened and vulnerable. 
But prosecutor Robert Waters thinks Gilbert is faking it and has his own experts ready to testify. 
Pretrial motions were argued last week. Gilbert, an Air Force veteran who worked as a brainwashing 
expert in South Korea, became
AP Photo
Living Flag 

Miami's first municipal court psychiatrist in 1957, The Miami 
An American flag is formed by 1,274 people holding red, white and blue cards on Sunday in center field 
Herald reported Monday.

at Cooper Stadium in Columbus. The event, sponsored by a radio station and a newspaper attracted 
He has been involved in the
about 3,000 people. 

trials of such high-profile de­
fendants as former jewel thief 
Jack "Murph the Surr Murphy
Two Holy Cross associates share 
and teenager Ronny Zamora, 
whom Gilbert diagnosed as liv­
ing in a "fantasy TV world"
experiences from Chile service 
when he killed an elderly 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
Anne Attea, a 1976 Notre Dame graduate, and Corey Timpson, a 1988 ND graduate, have just finished two years of service in· Chile as Holy Cross associates. 
Attea and Timpson, who re­turned to the United St<.tes last month, shared their experi­ences with students at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns Tues­day. 
For the majority of their stay in Chile, Attea and Timpson lived in the Holy Cross commu­nity house in Santiago at the foothills of the Andes Moun­tains. "You could jog from our house to where the road ends in 30-40 minutes," Attea said. 
Both Attea and Timpson worked on a project that helped needy Chilean families build houses for themselves. "We tried to organize them, but the 
SUFR 
continued from page 1 
cause we have to educate the university." 
"I think its the fact that mi­nority students on campus feel they are suffering... Since there isn't a multi-cultural cen­ter on campus, we feel there should be an increase in funds to help meet needs until the space issue is met," said Robert Price, SUFR spokesperson. 
Karen Sullivan and Jennifei Blanchet of the Club Coordina· tion Council said funding was limited for all clubs and cited figures different from those earlier released by Student Governement concerning allo­cation of funds to clubs: 
•The 
approximately 40 aca­demic clubs got $7,100, or 8.89%, of the funding. They got an additional $100 on appeal. 

•The 
32 athletic clubs got $17, 350, or 22.16%, of club 



people themselves built (the houses)," Timpson said. Funds for the supplies came from Car­itas Chile, the Chilean Catholic charity organization, and from private donations from the United States. 
Attea said that the greatest gift the Holy Cross associates offered to the Chileans was "our time and our energy." 
According to Attea, the most valuable thing for a Holy Cross associate to have is goodwill toward other people. "If you think you're going to make it as an individualist, you're mis­taken." 
Timpson said that the most important element of the expe­rience as a Holy Cross associate was the feeling of community. "I doubt I would have made it through two years in Chile if I wasn't in that community." 
He also said that he was amazed at the way "the families in the community 
Bowlin testified that Gilbert told him at the meeting that the 3-year-old nephew of his girl­friend was being abused by the boy's father. He allegedly asked Bowlin to "put him onto a hit man who could kill" the child's father. 
Gilbert told Bowlin someone from the Democratic Party had spied on him and his girlfriend, secretly taping their conversa­tion with a recorder disguised as a wristwatch, the officer said. 
Bowlin said Gilbert told him that if he could help in the plot against the boy's father, "l would have enough golf balls for the rest of my life." 
"I responded by telling the doctor that he had lost his mind and he was talking like a lunatic," Bowlin said in a pre­trial statement. "I advised him that he went much too far and should consider checking him­self into a mental hospital." 
Bowlin informed his superi­ors. They decided to investigate with undercover detective Ken Rosario, who wore a micro­phone when he went to Gilbert's office Aug. 27 and said he was available to "take care of speciai favors." 
Rosario said Gilbert told him he wanted the father of his nephew framed on drug charges, and that Gilbert met him the next day and handed him $2,000. 
Minutes later, police arrested Gilbert. 
The father of the child has denied Gilbert's allegations of child abuse. 
A month after his arrest, Gilbert checked himself into Larkin Hospital in South Miami for treatment. 
Dr. Bernard Tumarkin, a University of Miami professor who treated Gilbert, said he had "a psychotic break" and was suffering from "unrealistic, loose thinking ... He must have been, in his own words, really sort of crazy to have done what he did." 

would come together to help themselves and each other." 
Attea said she was especially impressed by' the way one of the Chileans she worked with got her children involved in the social projects. ''I'm convinced that her children will grow up to be concerned and caring people themselves because their mother involved them in her social work." 
Timpson said that, from the experience of being a Holy Cross associate, he learned not to plan out everything in ad­vance. "We plan so many things and, one year later, your heart changes." 
Attea called her two years in Chile "the most significant 
thing I've done in my life. I ex­perienced the highest of highs and the lowest of lows." Be­cause of this experience, Attea said she is planning a career in Hispanic ministry. 
funding. They got an additional •The 26 ethnic clubs recog­$600 on appeal. nized by the CCC got $15, 625 or 20.90%. Of these 26 clubs, 
woman. The "television intoxi­cation" defense put forward for Zamora was unsuccessful. 
Gilbert was known for his imposing intelligence and his accelerated pace at work and play. 
"He's so far ah~ad of the world that I thought I was on another planet," said Michael Haft, a lawyer who often hired Gilbert as a witness at a $150 an hour. "He's crazy like a fox. His intelligence borders on in­sanity." 
Last Aug. 24, Gilbert called Dale Bowlin, a Metro-Dade po­lice officer he had once treated for headaches after Bowlin was injured in a golf accident, and asked to see him. 
• The 30 social service clubs the BCAC alone has filed an ap­got $16,325, or 20.37%, and an peal; it received $1,300. additonal $175 on appeal. 
Cassidy said, "Everyone's 

I~L
•The 44 special interest clubs (funding) is getting cut. The got $17,500, or 22.75%, of the proper action is to go through 
EXHIBITION AT THE ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO 
budget and $925 on appeal. the Student Senate." 
~:.dc~lSSO .,. \.'XJ;;:~rho~ " ~'.<:H.Js:::;+~=~=::nt)=:::-r·f~ dch"b"J<r·~~>=hr:dn .... ~:.)~dt.:Jr·d:::::e-rq "' ,...~~n:;;:;'' 
You Can Buy Lifetime! This Baby A 
saturdayFEBRUARY23rd 


bus leaves at 9:30am returns about 10:00pm
~ 0TATION0 

Of TliE Only $12! 

$12 cost includes transportation to and from the museum and exhibit entrance lee.
CDO&& 
Sign up with John Shields at the Snite Museum
l 
fQID\Y& cf LENT 7~15 p.m. 
Must sign up by February 15th!
· Sacred Heart Church ~ Notrelllme 
This trip is sponsored by the Student Art Forum. ~ 
~tudent Art Forum 
presents a trip to 

Wednesday, February 13, 1991 OPERATION DESERT STORM page 7 
Not all the 'lightning' in Desert Storm hits its targets 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two­Iraqis say the number is in the town in the true sense," Neal thousand-pound bombs, no thousands -but they don't said. "It's important to under­matter how "smart" or accu­deny damage is occurring. stand that Iraq assumes the re­rate. harm people near the tar­"The term 'surgical strike' sponsibility by mming (military gets they hit, the Pentagon ac­seems to suggest something facilities) into civilian-type 
knowledges. And the bombs very clean and rapier-like," one structures." don't always hit their targets. military official said. "That's Most of the bombs dropped 
The U.S. military calls it hyperbole. It belies an under­by U.S. and other allied planes "collateral damage." Iraqi standing of what war is really are not equipped with the so­leaders, in complaints gaining all about." , phisticated and costly guidance increasing attention worldwide, "War is a dirty business," that directs them to designated call it the killing of innocent Marine Brig. Gen. Richard targets. And Pentagon officials 
civilians. Neal, a spokesman for the U.S. acknowledge that even the 
White House and Pentagon Central Command in Saudi cruise missiles and other officials say some of the blame Arabia, said. "Unfortunately guided "smart" weapons that for such death and damage there will be collateral have marveled the world with should go to Iraq for putting damage," he said, using the their accuracy can cause con­facilities with military signifi­military euphemism for civilian siderable damage near their cance in civilian settings. casualties. targets when carrying 2,000­
They say they can't estimate Heavily bombarded Basra, a pound payloads. how many civilians might have city of 1.5 million providing key A bomb of that size is likely to been killed in such cities as logistics support for troops in shatter the windows of Baghdad and Basra -the nearby Kuwait, "is a military buildings in the vicinity of the 

AP Photo 

Conscientious Objectors 
Chris Nash and Julie Hughes have both turned to the University Baptist Church in Seattle tor support after deciding they could not join the war against Iraq and instead seek to become conscientious objectors. 
target and could cause older, poorly constructed buildings common to Iraqi cities to col­lapse. Moreover, some bombs go astray. 
The Pentagon claims an accu­racy rate above 90 percent, but even that achievement would leave a margin for devastating error when thousands of tons of bombs are being dropped daily. 
And John Lehman, a former secretary of the Navy, was quoted in Newsday as saying Pentagon contacts had told him laser-guided "smart" bombs are hitting their targets about 60 percent of the time. 
"Nothing in this life is per­fect," Lt. Gen. Peter De La Bil­liere, commander of British forces, said. "Occasionally, I'm afraid, something's gone wrong, with bombs landing in the wrong place." 
Iraqi authorities, after being silent about civilian casualties in the first days of the war, are now aggressively accusing the allies of war atrocities in the bombing. 
"Earlier, Saddam Hussein wanted to downplay the de­struction to his own people and encourage them to fight i>n," Jim Phillips, a Middle East ana­lyst with the Heritage Founda­tion, said. Now, the Iraqi leader apparently hopes by emphasiz­ing casualties to "drive a wedge between the United States and the Arab world and Europe, and encourage the U.S. peace movement." 
Church focuses its efforts on fighting against the war 
NEW YORK (AP) -The roof still leaks and the elevators are breaking down, but Riverside Church is focused on a problem with which its members are more comfortable: the fight against war. 
After three years of paring its budget and pondering its direc­tion, this famously liberal Protestant church on a hill overlooking the Hudson River is focused on the Persian Gulf. 
"During the thaw in the Cold War, it may have seemed we'd almost achieved our goals," says the Rev. James A. Forbes Jr., senior minister. "Then the war came, and we realized that if we were thinking about clos­ing shop, we'd better mobilize again." 
At Riverside, mobilization has included a decision to defy the law by offering sanctuary to soldiers while they apply for conscientious objector status. A meeting room in the church tower is being converted into living quarters, and the con­gregation is waiting for appli­cants. 
It is among at least 14 na­tionwide offering sanctuary to war resisters. 
"It feels so characteristic of Riverside," Forbes says, "as normal as receiving the offer­ing on Sunday." 
The war seems to have brought a symbolic end to a pe­riod of institutional drift that began three years ago when the Rev. William Sloane Coffin resigned after 10 years as senior minister. 
Under Coffin, Riverside was known for its diverse member­ship and its advocacy of liberal causes. The church started its own disarmament center and for several years sheltered a family of illegal immigrants from Guatemala. "If you don't stand for something," he used to say, "you 'II fall for anything." 
Nonaligned nations to send peace mission to Baghdad 
BELGRADE. Yugoslavia (AP) -Spokesmen for the non­aligned movement said Tuesday the organization will send a mission to Baghdad, and Iran said it had received an encour­aging response to its peace plan from Iraqi President Sad­dam Hussein. 
Saddam was quoted as telling a Soviet envoy in Baghdad that he was willing to work with the Soviet Union and other nations to find a peaceful solution to the Gulf War. Saddam also said Iraq would "beat back" its en-
Some employers promise 
you the world 
We offer you achance to make the world better 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
emies, Baghdad radio said. 
If the non-aligned mission to Baghdad is successful, the 102­nation organization would then send other envoys to Washing­ton and western Europe in an effort to halt the war, Yugoslav Foreign Minister Budimir Lon­car said. 
Yugoslavia hosted a meeting Tuesday of 15 non-aligned na­tions and the Palestine Libera­tion Organization. The non­aligned movement represents countries that are not part of military alliances such as NATO or the Warsaw Pact. Its mem­bers include Iran, Iraq and Kuwait. 
Iran's foreign minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, said a high­level delegation from Tehran would visit Baghdad soon to talk peace. It wasn't clear if that mission was the same as the one discussed by Loncar. 

Iran's peace plan reportedly involves the pullout of Iraqi troops from Kuwait and the removal of non-Arab forces from the Persian Gulf area, with the peace guaranteed by a regional security plan. 
Iran got a long, detailed re­sponse from Saddam to its proposals for peace, Velayati said. according to a text of his remarks obtained by The Asso­ciated Press. 
"We believe, based on the let­ter of' President Saddam Hus­sein, that there is room for continuation of our diplomatic efforts and our 'idea for peace' is very much alive," Velayati said. 
"We are convinced. through the messages exchanged and 
x~~~.~~~-\'~~~-~' 
DIAL 27-ROSES 
FOR VALENTINES FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS 
ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER-(ACROSS FROM RANDALLS INNJ 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760 
VISA WE DELIVER 

contacts made, that it is imper­
ative to continue," he added. 
Iran and Iraq fought a bloody war from 1980 to 1988, but Iran now apparently hopes its position as a neutral Islamic state can help achieve peace. 
Loncar said Yugoslavia would choose which nations join the Baghdad mission, which is ex­pected to leave within a few days. He did not elaborate on the proposals that would be carried by the three-or four­nation peace mission, saying he feared damaging its chances of success. 
He spoke after hosting 14 other foreign ministers and a delegation from the Palestine Liberation Organization at a closed-door meeting called as an effort to prevent the Gulf War from spreading into a ground battle. 
Not all the nations gathered are in agreement on the con­flict. Iran, for instance, is offi­cially neutral, while Egypt is part of the allied forces fighting Iraq. 
The decisions reached Tues­day are a way to keep a diplo­matic initiative by the move­ment alive, Loncar said, in face of what he described as a looming ground war "with ter­rifying consequences." 
The 30-year-old non-aligned movement has never had a diplomatic success in mediating an international crisis. It has been trying since October to ease the tension in the gulf. 
Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, Febrauary 13, 1991 
I'l  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks  

Managing Editor John O'Brien 

News Editor....................... Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint Editor ...••••..••••••Michelle Dall Sports Editor .••••••••••••••.••.••Greg Guffey Accent Editor.•...•.•••••••••.Colleen Cronin Photo Editor ...........••.••••.•••... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. it does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, 
is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
l 
Dear Editor: 
Especially over the past few weeks, I have heard strong opinions both for and against the aims and/or tactics of the student coalition know as SUFR. Until I learned about the group firsthand, I could not formulate an accurate stand on the group or the controversy surrounding it. I ask that you, too, make an effort to learn about SUFR for yourselves and not rely completely on other sources. 

I have heard resounding cries across this campus against the tactics of the group. "If they want respect," many say, "then maybe they should stop making demands and start acting more reasonably." Some people hold the opinion that SUFR has every right to demand a racial harassment policy, but that demanding a multi-cultural center is going too far. Others condemn the group completely, arguing that the members. of SUFR are wrongly using the racial issue to their advantage. Such thoughts and opinions indicate a widespread misunderstanding of the aims ofSUFR. 
A great majority of people only know about SUFR through The Observer. but I believe that this paper has painted a roughly accurate, but very i incomplete, picture of the group. Early in the controversy,f I was a silent member of the
I 
I 
group because, although I supported the aims of SUFR, I 
/! was hesitant about supporting the group's tactics. This initial reluctancy, in part, was caused by my impression of the group as portrayed in the newspaper. However, after attending a few of the meetings, including the 
DOONESBURY 
MJRNING,~I 
"/aHATOfA GOT 
/ f()f( Mt,BIUY~ 

I 
d
II 
li 
~~ 
rl
r'
'! 
first meeting with Patricia O'Hara, my view of the institution has been greatly broadened. I am now a firm supporter of SUFR, and I hope that my story interests you. 
I can only help others to understand by recounting my own personal experience. Since I was born, my family and I have lived in upper-middle class neighborhoods all over America. We moved fairly often, and the most important survival skill that I learned was assimilation. My parents were born and raised in the Philippines, and, as a result, my life at home was completely different than my life in school. At home, I was a proud Filipino-American, but at school, I had to ba a "normal" American child. Especially since we moved every three years or so, I had to be like everyone else in school (children can be so cruel). Not only was I the "new kid," but I was the dark-haired, dark­skinned new kid. I found it easiest to adopt the interest, mannerisms, opinions, etc., of the people around me. I tried especially hard so that others 
A t:Jma. TH£ HtAf) 015e 15 60/NG 70 THe ON5HOI?f5. 
H05PfTAL-. Ht~ 
PRIORITY. 
I 

would accept me, and, for a time, I virtually abandoned my Filipino identity. 
Not until my older brother started college (my sophomore year in high school) did I begin to realize that I did not even know my own identity. Throughout my life, until that point, I had been presented with only one view of the world, but my brother's experiences opened a door to a new awareness for me. My brother quickly became active in the Filipino club on his campus, in addition to the NAACP, the Multi-cultural Committee, and a prominently Asian fraternity. He found himself inundated with new perspectives on the world, and I saw a new pride growing within him. Before college, he was happy to be like everyone else. During his college years, he becam~ prouder than ever that he was a Filipino-American and was excited to learn about others in the world around him. 
My brother's school offers its students a cross-cultural center much like the one proposed by SUFR, and the first time I entered the building, I was overwhelmed. The first room was an art gallery which branched off to a library on one side and classrooms on the other. The second floor consisted of a central office (analogous to our Office of Minority Affairs) and offices for Asian studies, African­American studies, Latin­american studies, and the like. The top floor included a meeting/sociaVstudy area. It is a misconception to think that a multi-cultural building would only serve to further segregate ethnic minorities from the rest of the students; it would educate students about the world and people from many different and interesting points of view. 
Now, as a proud Filipino­American at the University of Notre Dame, I expect people to understand that I have a special identity. I am both a proud American and a proud member of an ethnic minority, eager to learn about my heritage. I believe that I should be able to do so through the resources of this school. Notre Dame's pledge to cultural diversity is a good one, but is is also a meaningless one if the University continues to lie idle as it, in effect, has. 
Minority students should not even have to fight for a racial harassment policy, a multi­cultural building, and the like (and, if money is the question, then I would like to know exactly what the $1.000,000 Coca-cola grant for promoting cultural diversity is going to be used for, or the $91,000 Ford grant, or my $16,000+). 
Please consider that SUFR represents a group of people who, for lifetimes and for generations, have been frustrated in a world that lacks an understanding of, or even any willingness to understand, its many cultures. The fact that we even have to fight for the opportunity to learn about our own backgrounds and to share different perspectives with our school is a discouraging thought. College is a place designed to give students a broader view of the world. I expect to be able to do this, and I hope that others share my expectations. 
SUFR's efforts should not be looked down upon but, rather. applauded. To those of you who view SUFR as an unreasonable group of minorities placing demands on this University, I ask you to please reconsider. Please educate yourselves about the group, and do not judge us. It is so easy to push the group aside and to go on with your life. The most frustrated among us may say that we should be used to it by now. 
Maria Santos Pasquerilla East 
Feb.8,1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
OKAY, WAP'CMI OMY, 
IPHWIF F£UAHSl 
ONl-Y I HAl? ONWR 7Ht UF'PtR 800 FC&T' 
5JREN(jTH. 
\ I 
'I would rather have goodwill and cooperation than logic." 
Jawaharlal Nehru 
Viewpoint

Wednesday, February 13, 1991 page 9 
Journalists unjustly misrepresent Quayle's character 
Quayle hunting has become an extraordinarily popular sport during the past two years. Americans from all walks of life have discovered the joys of taking pot shots at their Vice President. Cartoonists and co­medians have a field day por­traying Quayle as pleasantly id­iotic, columnists fill space with Quayle stories, and average cit­izens swap Quayle jokes. For all the comedic inspiration Dan Quayle has provided, however, he is neither stupid nor igno­rant. Rather. Quayle is bright and competent, but is persis­tently misrepresented by our nation's media. 
One of the reasons for the low regard in which the Vice President is held is a popular ignorance of the man and his record. Many in and around Washington know better. When the highly respected Journal of Defense and Diplomacy wanted an American expert on the INF treaty to participate in a forum with NATO generals and West European diplomats, they picked Dan Quayle. When the MacNeil-Lehrer Newshour wanted a Republican expert on the Plant Closing Bill to debate with Democratic expert Lloyd Bentsen, they picked Dan Quayle (his performance was one of the factors that caused George Bush to choose Quayle as a running mate). When lib­eral Democrat Ted Kennedy wanted to find an open-minded and respected Republican 
Senator  to  write  the  Job  
Training  Bill  with  him,  he  
picked Day Quayle.  

This is just a sample. Quayle's accomplishments thus far could probably fill a fair sized book. Clearly he is not the vacuous idiot he has been made out to be. 
How has Quayle's image got­ten so badly tarnished? The primary cause has been media misrepresentation of him. An examination of two of Quayle's most recent "gaffes" should demonstrate this point fairly clearly. 
The first "gaffe" came last spring. Quayle was preparing for a diplomatic trip to Latin America when a most unflatter­ing news story began to circu­late. It was reported that Quayle had remarked that his upcoming trip to Latin America made him wish that he had studied Latin harder in college. Quayle immediately denied making the remark and de­clared that he knew that 
Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 

Hispanics speak Spanish, not Latin. But it was too late. Hispanic groups sent indignant protests to Washington, pundits shook their heads sadly at this latest evidence of Quayle's abysmal IQ and political satirists gleefully feasted on this latest Quayle tidbit. 
Unfortunately for Dan Quayle, the American media never bothered to report the fact that Quayle really didn't make the infamous comment about studying Latin. The origin of the story was a joke made by a Republican Congressman at a fund raising breakfast. The Congressman's audience laughed at the joke, but the press took it seriously and reported it as fact in the evening papers. The only major media outlet which reported the true story was the London­based Economist. 
The second "gaffe" occurred early last summer. Scientists reported that an asteroid the size of an aircraft carrier had narrowly missed striking the earth. Quayle, who heads America's space policy plan­
ning, argued that we should build an early warning and de­fense system to prevent the Earth from actually being hit in the future. One narrow miss, reasoned Quayle, is one too many. Once again, Quayle hunters had a field day. Articles with headlines such as "Dan Quayle: Lost in Space" and "Space Cadet Quayle" were common in the editorial sec­tions of all major newspapers. Johnny Carson made a lot of bad jokes about Dan Quayle being hit in the head by space rocks. 
Everybody was laughing at Dan Quayle's worry that the Earth would be hit by a giant rock. Everybody, that is, except those who knew something about the subject. For instance, the head of the largest associa­tion of astronomers and astro­physicists in America wrote a letter to the Chicago Tribune responding to a Mike Royko column lampooning Quayle. The letter pointed out 1) that large meteorites or comets strike the earth fairly frequently (about every 200 years) and 2) that they are very destructive ( if the aircraft­carrier-sized asteroid had hit Chicago, it would not only have destroyed Chicago, but also everything from South Bend to Milwaukee). Needless to say, none of America's major media outlets bothered to report the facts behind Quayle's concern. 
Probably neither of these in­cidents were the result of media ill will towards Dan Quayle. Rather, poor journalism and negligence were to blame. But both incidents indicate a fun­damental lack of respect for Quayle. If a nationally re­spected figure such as Sam Nunn had been the subject of either of these "gaffes," would the news coverage have been the same? Probably not. When Dan Quayle says something unusual, it is automatically as­sumed to be stupid. When Dan Quayle is reported to have said something stupid, the report is automatically assumed to be true. 
If the media insists on mis­representing Dan Quayle as ig­norant and idiotic, it is not surprising that most Americans share this view. This does a disservice not only to Dan Quayle, but to all of America. 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reversing perspective is worth the risk 
Dear Editor: 
"Frank, I'm admitting you and we'll start an I.V. antibiotic right away." I waited for the doctor to smile-he was joking, right? "There's no need to mince words, Frank, this is serious." Whoa Doc! There's got to be some mistake! I'm an RA. I send other people to the infirmary. I know what's sup­posed to happen: you come in; sign your name; wait; see a nurse and look sick with puppy dog eyes; wait; see a doctor who says "hmm" and gives you some blue pills in one of those cute little envelopes; and off you trot to watch the missile by missile TV coverage of the war. 
But its only a scratch on my nose! "Yes, Frank, but due to its location is can spread through your lymphatic system intt> the soft tissues of your brain." Whoops. I froze. Still shaking my head in disbelief I reluc­tantly followed him upstairs. While the doctor and the nurse left to get the I.V. ready I paced back and forth throughout my room moaning, "I don't believe this!" I looked around. No TV. No stereo. Across from my bed was a crucifix and there in the corner was a gurgling, clanging radiator. I opened the shades and saw the Dome. "This was probably the room Gipper died in!" I muttered to myself as they came back. 
I suspiciously removed my shoes and hopped on the bed. I had never met an LV. before. In went the needle (so much for introductions!). I was surprised and disappointed at how scared I was. After all, I was going to be a doctor-! would have to do this to other people. I was also infuriated with my vulnerability. How could I be sure they were going to give me what the said they were? What if they made a mistake! (Doctors make the worst patients.) Woosh! (A "saline flush" into the vein.) 
The doctor then closely watched for any "adverse reac­tions" as the antibiotic dripped in. That made me really ner­vous! I waited in terror for ei­ther my heart to stop beating or my brain to explode. Neither happened. Having an I.V. drip bag after bag of fluid into your vein is sort of like giving blood­only in reverse! My saving grace was a sweet, experienced nurse named Ruth Slowey. She stayed by my side the whole time. She held my hand-she knew how scared I was. 
I will always value this expe­rience. I was forced to reverse perspectives-to become the pa­tient instead of the healer. Whenever you enlarge your perspective and open yourself to the unique story of another, it is both a risk and an opportunity. Indeed, it is an act of love. This "act" may simply involve listening-nonjudgementally. Yet if you genuinely open yourself up to the other's story you always take a risk. Why? Entering into another's pain, in whatever form this pain may come, inevitably raises ques­tions and issri'es in your own life. 
You are forced to think. to feel, to go beyond yourself-in short, to be human. Yet what a marvelous opportunity for growth-what a uniquely hu­man gift. The very "entering into" the other's pain begins to transform it-and you as well. Isolation is shattered. True, not to "risk love" is easier-even safe. But in today's world I now see that this only leads to lone­liness and despair for the indi­vidual-and perhaps, on a larger scale, war. 
Many thanks to Dr. Moriarity and the fine nurses and staff of the Notre Dame Health Center. They gave me the opportunity to heal, in more ways than they knew. 
Frank Carnevale Sarin Hall Jan.31,1991 
Song about Hussein's atrocities justifies war 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Mark Gunty's song "To War and Back" (The Observer, Feb. 5), I wrote "The Ballad of Saddam": 
One man wanted a war one day. He invaded Kuwait and decided to stay. 
He left Iraq and went to Kuwait, stole what he could, he didn't wait to rape the women and kill the men, or rob their homes and hope the UN blindly ignored what he did, without even batting a lid. 
"I want more oil," went his train of thought , but when questioned why, he said, "Not for oil but for the rights of Palestinians for whom I fight." 
No one bought that crap, they knew the truth behind Saddam's cruel show of brute force against a minor land, a country which had trusted that man. 
"Why should he attack us?" they wondered, as Iraq's huge armies plundered. Instead of helping Kuwait, however, the nations of the world wanting never an unpopular war, ignored their cries; instead of threats, they tried sanctions for size. 
Saddam let his population do without, for instead of surrendering, they strengthened throughout their nation and forces, and prepared for war. Their misdeeds glared. Finally, one country took a stand against that cruel man. 
The UN stood and supported George Bush who planned to go over and kick some tush if need be, to remove Iraq from Kuwait, to send them back to where they belong. In their own land they can do no wrong to other nations through brutal military might-we know that's not right. 
Now where would we be today without people to stand up and say, "No, Saddam, you can't invade Kuwait and spread your bitter hate." 
We'd live in a world ruled by fear. where Saddam stood near, ready to loot and pillage your small. rich village so that he could increase his wealth... 
Matthew Miller Carroll Hall Feb.6,1991 


Building Christian peace continues as only solution 
Dear Editor: the world, one people 
Even now, after the start of massacres another, and the the conflict in the Gulf, the onlv United Nations does nothing in reasonable position on the war concrete terms. is that of the Pope. who has But what can we do? continued to invoke peace and The beginning of peace came negate any justification for the about 2000 years ago-and not war: "May there never be any thanks to any initiative of man. more war. this adventure with For us, building peace means no return, a spiral of mourning taking part in the history which and violence. Problems cannot was born from that event. be solved by means of arms; We work and engage they only create new and ourselves because we can no deeper tensions between longer run away from what has peoples" (Pope John Paul II). happened to us, no matter how 
Hussein-who, until yester­timidly this event appeared on day, was given arms by all and the horizon of our lives. We act everyone-proves not to want to out of love for the One who has go back on his desire for "happened" to us, that is, out of violence. The West, for its own a true love for ourselves, and, part, while crying out for peace, therefore, out of love for all who entrusts its realization to suffer, no matter what the bombardment. Perhaps Kuwait nature of their suffering. We will be freed-Lebanon take action in order that those certainly won't be. The new and irreducible Palestinians will continue to be protagonists in history­without a homeland, and Christians-may multiply. so Christian communities will still that the impact of Christ on men be under the threat of and women may increase and extinction all over the Middle multiply. East. In the meantime, the Soviet Union welcomes the Joel I. Barstad present international state of Anna Ballarlno affairs in order to repress the Paolo Sottopietra Baltic countries' attempts at Michael M. Waldstein autonomy. In various parts of Feb. 7, 1991 
rr­


~10_____________________________________________________________________________________________
1l: 
Sense of community gai.ned from Rome experience 
By KIM ZYCH AND 
JEANNE WONG 
Accent Writers 
Rome was very personal to us, although there were experi­ences common to us all. We lived and worked together as a tight community, and as Tom Felton said at the end of the year, "It was like being married to 45 people." 
Rome was our classroom; its streets were our studio. A typical class was sketching in a cold Renaissance basilica or studying Roman history by walking through the medieval streets. We learned to understand the Vatican by wandering through the layers of the catacombs, the basilica, and the Vatican City itself. Our study of architecture was changed from a two di­mensional study to a three di­mensional experience, from ex­amining photographs to actu­ally walking through a structure. 



Yet the biggest adjustment was everyday life. Simple things that we had always taken for gra~ted, communicating, 
plained our circumstances and lifestyles more amazing. We do vate moments in our favorite
findmg our way around, eating, without hesitation, he escorted not know if they are Christian place.
financing, and doing laundry 
us to his home. or not, but their actions toward We were children in a candy
became a challenge. 
us reflected a Christian atti­store, but we were on our ownUpon our arrival, he and hisBeing separated from family tude. They took us in for two and things still had a price. In
and friends forced us to depend wife served us scrambled eggs, making we had
nights, guided us, and gave us choices tobread and Pilsner beer. It wason ourselves and each other, in what and limitations.
order to cope and to under­all they had, but to us it was money food they realize our Our 
could, as well as the key to biggest limitation was only be­more than we could have asked. 
stand what we were experienc­their apartment. ing there for eight months. It
We later thought of the
ing in Rome, as well as all over In return they asked for forced us to broaden our per­passage in Mt 25:35, "For IEurope. For instance, maneu­
was hungry and you gave me nothing. They taught us to spective as much as possible in
vering through Europe with 
believe that a sense of order to get the most out offood, I was thirsty and you
Eurail pass and passport in 
community extends everywhere; our own lives there. Now it isgave me drink, I was a strangerhand, we learned how to plan it was a refreshing perspective our responsibility to bring ourand you made me welcome."
with flexibility and discover our
I on humanity. understanding back by extract­
I They did this and more, 
1. own identity, as well as those of ing the most out of our life asoffering us hospitality anddifferent cultures. 
we can here in the States.
friendliness to strangers they It may sound easy to balanceFrom here we draw upon our 
only knew by our word that we a student's life in Europe, and There is no way we can ex­
t own experiences in our travels. 
were distant friends of their in Rome because of the plain our experiences. We did
I( We were traveling to 
son's seminarian friend. "seeming" lack of pressures, not understand until we lived
fi Czechoslavakia and we arrived 
,[ Their simple lifestyle, but it was much more difficult there, nor do we understand
late in Prague without a place 
although very than one would think. The op­extent of our experi­
I to stay. A friend had given us a until recently the full 
forced by the Communist portunity constantly presented ences, even now. The over­
phone number to call if we
II. government, and in a location :tself to be as passionate about whelming experience of both
needed help, so with some diffi­
r/ 
'·ur major as we desired, to the ·ordinary and the extraordi­:r culty, we called. Thankfully the where their friends were 
recipient of call imprisoned for believing in travel as far as we could when­nary is the only road to whf)rp
J the spoke I
English fairly well. We ex-Christianity, made our hosl!oo. ever we could, or to spend pri-we are now. 
f 
:f Spiritual 'closeness to God' achieved throL 
t 
By DAVID KUHLMAN 

hours in stations being swarmed by drunk beg­
Accent Writer 

gars; and l was simply guessing as to where to go from what I had heard from other people.
The following is a brief description of an event that has affected me more than any other in my 
But everything seemed to work out perfE'ctly
"Rome Experience." 

and I found my way to Medjugorje with only five After. completing final exams and spending days left before I had to fly out of Rome. 
Easter m Rome, two fellow Arkies and I traveled through Paris, Brugge, London, Edinburgh Dublin, Killkenney, and Prague. We hoped to' 
As things turned out, I could only spend roughly I s~end a few days in Prague, but after only one two days in Medjugorje. But I can't emphasize .1. mght and one day, we were left without a place to 
enough what a dramatic effect those forty-eight
stay. Every hotel and hostel was full. 
hours have had on my life. 
My "experience" began with the words of our last rejecti~n. My he;;trt leaped at the thought of 

The basic story is that Mary has been
now searchmg for a tmy and remote village in the 
appearing to six children since 1981, urging and
mountain region of central Yugoslavia­
helping them to be the instruments in Her call for Medjugorje. 
world peace and conversion back to God, viaI had heard some unbelievable stories about al­prayer, penance, fasting, reconciliation, and the
leged apparitions of Mary , the Mother of God, 
holy Mass. 
appearing to certain children of the village and h?w. millions of people have been m~king p1lgnmages to Medjugorje since the apparitions But the specifics ;tre not my focus. I want to de­began in 1981. scribe, not knowing if it is possible in words the 
feeling of closeness to God that I felt whil~ in Medjugorje. People can laugh at the idea write
But that's all I knew. I did not know wherP 
pointless satires on the subject matter, or 'simply 
Medjugorje was or how to get there. My friends 
Igno~e th~ possibilities _of what is happening in
had gone off on their own to other destinations. 
MedjugorJe, but not until one goes to this village 
So l headed to Yugo~lavia looking for MedjugorjP, 
can one make a valid opinion as to its credibility. 
for :-vha~ r~ason. l did not know. I simply had a f~ehng ms~de, hke a rush of adrenaline, every time I considered the idea of actually going there. 
No, I did not see the Mother of God, experience any dramatic healing, or see the sun dance. For It took me roughly three days to find my way. me the "mira~le" was on the inside. I can only at­three of the most challenging days of the year. I tempt to put mto words the great spiritual pres­had no visa for "Communist" Yugoslavia, and ence that I felt in Medjugorje, radiated bv all the 
thus experienced an unforgettable run-in with the people. Everyone is there for one re~son-to military; I had to jump a first class train after come closer to God. being told I could not ride on it because of my Surely it is the apparitions that are the source 
second-class only train pass; I spent a number of of all interest in Medjugorje, but the focus is 





page 11 

Expo Roma students take a refreshing break in the sunshine of Rome after an Ancient History Class at the Forum. 
lSS of 1992 would like rwork from their year ~d to the Architecture na Thursday February 
to Sunday February 
In the Colosseum of Pompeii Notre Dame students do not forget about home nor loose their NO spirit as they use their archetectural skills to portray the NO symbol. 
Jgh Rome experience at Medjugorje 
prayer. Aside from the necessities of eating. sleeping, and working, life in the village revolves around prayer. For visitors it is really the only option. 
What touched me the most were the Masses in Medjugorje. I had never felt so much enthusiasm and life involved in the traditionally "low-key" Catholic service (as compared to some protestant services). 

There are daily Masses in the five primary languages, plus the local Croatian Mass, and there is rarely enough room in the church (with a capacity similar to that of Sacred Heart) to accommodate all the people. So those who don't make it inside simply listen and pray on the outside! Every song and every prayer is full of emotion and meaning, and homilies sometimes last over an hour! 
One cannot help but be absorbed by the atmosphere of devotion, especially during communion when great numbers of people pr·ostrate themselves before receiving the body and blood of Christ. Prayer does not even stop after the Mass. Many people flock to different parts of tht village to pray the rosary, confessions are heard throughout the day, there is time for adoration of the Eucharist, and talks are given by priests and sometimes by the visionaries themselves. 
The state of sacrifice and penance were also 
very humbling for me. Many people are personally 
committed to fast solelv on bread and water 
every Wednesday and Friday. 
Even more impressive was the physical 
sacrifice. It was common to see people praying 
Night Runner in Rome 
By PAUL DELAVE 
Accent Writer 

Nighttime Rome held a special fascination for 
me. It was not the discos and bars, but the dark 
and vaguely mysterious back streets, where a 
lone runner could aimlessly wander for an hour. 
Every excursion was a ten kilometer long history 
lesson, a passage through time. Running through 
the narrow, serpentine streets was a unique 
experience--always gratifying, at times revealing, 
often slightly unnerving. 
Late at night may not be the most prudent time 
to wander around a large city alone, but for me, 
it held the most intrigue. I would wind through 
the narrow, stone-paved streets, occasionally 
passing a young couple holding hands, a random 
motor scooter, or men sweeping with long­
handled brooms. But mostly there was just street 
after street of Renaissance palazzi, stores that 
were closed for the evening and dark doorways: a 
maze with five story walls of heavy stone and 
stucco. 

Daytime Rome belongs to a different realm -­
that of controlled chaos. Buses, taxis, and 
weaving Fiats combined with a generally poor 
understanding of traffic laws offered the chal­
lenge of survival for the pedestrian. A respite in 
the centro at mid-day was hard to find. That was 
why I chose to make the night my time to run. 
The special beauty of the city at night led me up 
several of the famed seven hills to seek the 
glittering panorama. The organic order of Rome 
unfolded as its streets, lined with light, 
contrasted against the dark. The dense city fabric 
dissolved into a sequence of dark blocks outlined 
in light. Red tail lights moved at alarming speed 
through these narrow passages of light --a 
Roman testing his driving skills against the 
streets. 

It was astounding the amount of history one could pass in an hour's time. A favorite loop in­cluded a passage through the Piazza San Pietro, heart of the Catholic church, then up the Gianiculum hill, one of the finest panoramic 
views of the city, then through the Medieval quarter of Trastevere, up the Capitoline hill, the seat of Roman government for centuries, past the Roman forum, with the Colosseum in the background, at special times, silhouetted in the moonlight, ending with a jog through Michelangelo's Campodoglio, one of the most splendid creations of the Italian Renaissance. 
Here I might stop before covering the last few blocks back to my hotel. I would take in a few more breaths of Rome, plan where I might go tomorrow, and contemplate what new wonders might unfold before me in the dark of the Roman night. 

and walking barefoot throughout the rocky terrain of Medjugorie; even up the steep slope of Mt. Krizivec, the highest point in the area. It takes about ninety minutes to reach the top, due to the sharp rocky path, and to see people climb the path barefoot really touched me and opened my eyes to the concern people have for the mes­sage of Medjugorie. 
As for accommodations, the people of the village welcome pilgrims from any nationality into their homes. I ended up staying with a Canadian man, a woman from Australia, and a German family. And when I asked how much I would have to pay, I was told by the Canadian that a cent would never be asked of us, that we only pay what we felt we owed or could afford. Money was never a factor (and there was not a single collection taken at any of the Masses ei­ther!). 
Our hostess, a Croatian woman (about thirty­five years old with husband and children) fpd us twice a day, and was always smiling. We were her first priority, an amazing point in itself, considering the fact that these people live very draining lives dependent on the productivity of their crops. 
So what am I trying to say? I really can't narrow it down to a one line concluding sentence, as would be expected. And I don't feel people should rush to Medjugorje looking for the answer of what role God plays in their lives, although I definitely feel it would help. I just hope that people will have open minds to the possibility of what is happening in Medjugorje and its 
Atop the Mountain of the Cross is a beautiful view of Medjugorje,
relevance, especially considering the situation our 
Yugoslavia In this city there have been alleged apparitions of Mary.
world is in today. 
,I page 12 The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1991 
'I University of Texas-EI Paso basketball program faces 13 allegations from NCAA 
EL PASO, Texas (AP) -John UTEP was informed of the in­in a phone interview. Staggers at least four times to validity of the newspaper Staggers, a focus of some NCAA vestigation on Dec. 20, 1989, a Staggers was a top college help him prepare for three sep­report. But Staggers said he allegations against Texas-El few days after a newspaper re­recruit during his senior year at arate GED exams and allowed had been quoted correctly. Paso, said Tuesday he's not port quoted Staggers saying he a California high school, but he him to take the exam when he gloating over the assertions, but received transportation, hous­never graduated. He signed a was not qualified. Staggers said he simply an­is happy the investigation ing and meals from UTEP letter of intent to play with Staggers earned his GED after swered the reporter's questions confirmed he told the truth. basketball coaches. UTEP in 1988, but never played leaving UTEP and now attends truthfully. 
Texas-El Paso is facing 13 "I was just telling them what because he failed to pass the Columbia Community College in NCAA allegations of wrongdo­really went on. I was not trying General Equivalency Diploma California. Coach Don Haskins was not in ing in its basketball program. to get anyone in any trouble. I (GED) exam. UTEP Coach Don Haskins and his office prior to practice and The allegations were made just wanted to tell them what The NCAA alleged that a other coaches denied Staggers' his secretary said he was not public Tuesday. really happened," Staggers said UTEP assistant coach tutored statements and questioned the making comments to the media. 
The Observer accepts classffieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classffieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including ail 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

FOUR BEDROOMS · TWO BATHS Hey A, i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for Sisters of Nefertiti present TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER HOUSE, AVAILABLE AUGUST 1. spring break. Dana x2697. I'm a An Expression in Rhy1hm & Rhyme
NOTICES CHILDREN'S CAMPS­CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL I won't have time on great rider. Friday, Feb. 15, 1991 at 8:30p.m. NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN 234·9364. Valentine's Day, SMC's Carroll Auditorium WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN But I will be thinking of you 
TYPING AVAILABLE THE NORTHEAST. GOOD anyway. SEARCHING FOR A CAREER? 287·4082 SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, FOR SALE So enjoy the show We can help! 
TRAVEL EXPENSE. DROP BY And I'll let you know Quality resume and Sisters of Nefertiti present NY TIMES, used and new books FOR INFORMAL INTERVIEW FOR SALE : Sound System for bar With you its always a holiday. cover letter duplication. An Expression in Rhy1hm & Rhyme Pandora's Books 233·2342 ON THURSDAY, FEB. 21, IN band. In Good Shape. Matching envelopes too. Friday, Feb. 15, 1991 at 8:30 p.m. corner of NO ave. & Howard LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY ROOM Reasonable Price. Call: That's alii have, can't think THE COPY SHOP SMC's Carroll Auditorium 1 0·5:30 everyday ANDSORIN Kevin X3498 or John X1166. of more. LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM. Just remember, it ·s you I OPEN EVERYDAY!!I SUPPORT WAR VICTIMS adore. Valentines GIVE BLOOD Let it be so.
TICKETS 

THEODORES WED 13 Cause I don't know NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX SIGN UPCSC EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK INDIGO GIRLS; need 1 ticket; I've never done this before!! REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3·5 DAYS READING BOOKS AT HOME. call Barb 284·5344 GH WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. $5 OFF test ad 
SOPHOMORES II! CALL 1·615-473-7440 EXT. 8340. WITH ND/SMC ID. Are you ready tor Advanced ON SA 23, PAST IRONWOOD. Registration beginning April 8 ? HELP! HELP! HELP! PLEASE -I NEED AN INDIGO RIDE NEEDED. To Terre Haute CALL 277-6245. Have you selected your major? I need a couple of INDIGO GIRLS GIRLS TICKET $$$ -JEFF ·EVES · or vicinity(IU, Indy ...) 2/15. Monica Yant , 
tickets lor some out of town 272 9602 Please call Emily 284-5086 You are my sweet Valentine, so If you answered NO, consider guests-if anyone has any extras SPRINGBREAK DAYTONA! tender and true. registering for CAREER/MAJOR l,m sure they'll pay generously for Wanted N.K.O.T.B tickets for April 7. Fun in the sun on the beach in our Life without you would just make me DECISION MAKING WORKSHOP them! Thanks and Happy Special birthday gift. Please call AnTostal '91 proudly presents: NEW Flamingo Inn. Rated so blue, starting the week of February 18th Valentine's Day' Call Kelly at 273-(219) 465-0101. AAA excellent. Call now 1·904-252· So I ttiought I'd write a little at the University Counseling Center. 9442 (evenings are best!) THE BAR® 1412. Valentine wish for you! Call 239· 7336 to register or for more SELL Love and kisses. information I am looking for a ride to anywhere INDIGO GIRLS TIX This wacky and zany AnTostal fund­'1he boy1riend you said you did'nt 
in Virginia for Spring Break TO ME FOR BIG $$$$ raiser can earn you a VCR, a dozen have" Weekly Prayer Meetings on (preferably Charlottesville or close ... Please! pizzas to Barnaby's, or a $50 gift Photography for Formals-Halls­Thursdays in Siegfried Chapel, 7:30 to) Will help with expenses and CALL CHRIS AT x1056 certificate to the ND Bookstore. Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS pm. driving! Nancy 284-5082 Every time you purchase the 3oz. Photography at 234-8539. Interested? Call Eileen x4815 Catherine Eisner chocolate bar Toddles, 
NETWORK MARKETING: NEW PERSONALS (Almond or Crunch) for $1 from an You are truly a "Polish cyclone." I MISSING: Two bags stolen from a ASSOCIATES WANTED. SYSTEM AnTostal '91 Rep you increase your long to find out if it is true under the blue station wagon ESTABLISHED OVER 30 Y.EARS. CLUB 23 chances of winning a Golden Need ride to Ll OR AREA lor sheets too. You are as strong as Feb. 9 during B.P.'s formal at SUBSTANTIAL PROFIT Ticket® that could win you one of SB Can leave 3n.$$ call 2621 your hair is short. the Marriot. One red, one pink­POTENTIAL. START BUILDING Daily Specials. New addition: these valuable prizes. Off-campus & Happy Valentine's Day, you sweaty filled w/clothes, books, etc. FINANCIAL SECURITY FOR YOUR The Coffee House faculty can "So-hunk." Any info, please call Megan Thomas FUTURE TODAY. FLEXIBLE Bring your books and come purchase THE BAR® on the second at x1884. HOURS. UPPERCLASSMEN, study, or just come socialize. floor of LaFortune-SUB's STOP THE WAR Love and kisses from, 
GRADUATE STUDENTS AND Open daily 4pm-3am. reception desk. wear white arm bands The female population (and male) at 
STAFF. SERIOUS INQUIRIES Notre Dame FINANCE CLUB MEMBERS: ONLY. 219-291-4722. CLUB 23 But wait! There's yet another way WE WOULD APPRECIATE to win! By simply answering Happy Valentine's Day, Kirby ... YOUR VOTE LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO Daily Specials. New addition: correctly the 3 daily "Charlie and the SUPPORT THE TROOPS You are truly a slope GOD! 
WANT TO SUB· LEASE The Coffee House Chocolate Factory" Questions on a BRING THEM HOME NOW smile.. MARINA POULAKIDAS APARTMENT OVER SUMMER. Bring your books and come sheet of paper along with your wear white arm bands we are all over those moguls TONY YOCUM CALL BLAIZE X1654 study, or just come socialize. name and phone #and putting it in "GOOD TO GO!" SCOTIHAZEN Open daily 4pm-3am. THE BOX® at the SUB NACIBE CADRE Receptionist's desk on the 2nd floor AMY... 
NEED RIDE FROM LONG ISLAND, of LaFortune or 1st floor Haggar University Allied Publishers, Inc. WATCH OUT... ON WED FEB 13 NY. back to campus on 3·16 or CLUB 23 Hall (SMC) by 5 p.m. (one entry per seeks motivated, entreprenurial the sun worshipping, hedonistic HAYES HEALY 10:30-2:30 3·17. Will pay lor gas$$$. Call Mark person per day) you will be entered students interested in a campus pagans that are going to CANCUN 
at 273·9288. Daily Specials. New addition: into a drawing for a hundred dollar venture. Great resume builder, with you will try to convert you to The Coffee House bill (that's $100)! opportunity for very good money. their sinful ways ...
LOST/FOUND 

Student Wanted: Make $2000.00 Bring your books and come No capital required. Call David RESIST...at all costs! this semester selling t-shirts and study, or just come socialize. GOOD LUCK! Carlock at (617) 894·5575. sweatshirts to fraternites and Open daily 4pm-3am. Mr. AnTostal Little L., Kirby, and Tricia ... sororities., Southern Marketing WE HAVE A MISSION!!! 
FOUND: Pair of gloves in 127 800·444-2708. THE QUESTIONS: Hee...hee.. Nieuland. Call x4530. CLUB 23 Going to I.U. or Indy for the 
"2 1 · way airline tickets to San 1) Who were Willie Wonka's special weekend (2/15-2/17)? Take me FOUND: Scarf in front of Library. Francisco, Feb. 27. $100 Daily Specials. New addition: workers? too!! Will help with gas$$. Julie Call x4530. 684·7203." The Coffee House x3851. 
Bring your books and come 2) Where were these special •••• LOST"" study, or just come socialize. workers from? GOLD LINK BRACELET -looks like ROCK/DANCE BAND Open daily 4pm-3am. (XoXoXoX)-IN FARLEY,NDH,2nd seeks Drummer and Keyboardist. 3) Who were their three worst ST. JUDE NOVENA: MAY THE FL LIBRARY. OR ANYWHERE ON Please call Paul x1355 enemies? SACRED HEART OF JESUS BE CAMPUS. ADORED, GLORIFIED, LOVED IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4046. AND PRESERVED THROUGHOUT 
FOR RENT 
ITS NEW! CLUB 23 THE WORLD NOW AND 
ITS FREE!! FOREVER. SACRED HEART OF @@@@HELP! HELP! Far Side Card Club Daily Specials. New addition: JESUS, PRAY FOR US. ST. JUDE, HELP!@@@@ BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Buy 11 Far Side Cards and the The Coffee House WORKER OF MIRACLES, PRAY LOST A SINGLE PERAL EARRING 219·291·7153. 12th is Free! Bring your books and come FOR US. ST. JUDE, HELPER OF SOMETIME LAST WEEK. (9mm)! THE COUNTRY HARVESTER study, or just come socialize. THE HOPELESS. PRAY FOR US. 
If found please call Beth LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE Open daily 4pm-3am. SAY THIS PRAYER NINE TIMES A 
at #2467'!! HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to UPS M·F 12-5 DAY; BY THE EIGHTH DAY, YOUR campus. $150/month. Call Paul 239-6714 Attention Seniors !!I! PRAYER WILL BE ANSWERED. IT 287-2159. Coming Soon .. HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN TO 
WANTED CHEAP CARDS All night basketball torney is coming FAIL. PUBLICATION MUST BE 3 Bedroom Homes. HOW LOW CAN YOU GO? March 1 . Start getting your lour PROMISED. J.T. Walk to campus. HOW CHEAP CAN YOU BE? player teams together today and 
Summer job interviews · Average 232-3616 THEY'RE GREAT!! look lor more info. next week! Call earnings $3900. University class office with any ?? from 3-5 SOUTH PADRE ISLAND """'$f29" Directories, the nation's largest Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Mon.-Fri. Dougie-
STEAMBOAT 

publisher of campus telephone Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms CARDS-CANDY-CANDLES Jus: because the trip is over, directories, hires over 250 college for Be Sweet on Valentine's Day! the f1Jn does not have to be!l!!ll FORT LAUDERDALE students for their summer sales Graduation weekend. Located at Novelties and Necessities I need a ride to I.U. Feb 15 I will see you tonight. .. program. Top earnings $5,000· Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart Call Missy 2577 $ -Mike Callan PANAMA CITY BEACH .,0 .,'1211* 8,000. Gain valuable experience in (12 miles from South Bend) THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
CORPUS CHRISTl I 

advertising, sales and public Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 239-6714 P.S. Don't forget to put John's 
MUSTANG ISLAND

relations selling yellow page deposit per room. Send letter with The GREAT little gift shop OHGROSS! blanket in the hall. We don't advertising for your campus deposit to 3011 JESTER want any interuptions 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,,0.,Sff2*

telephone directory. Positions also Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, ...EXPOROMA••• IS PLAYING AT CLUB 23 
available in other university IN 46514. ...EXPOROMA... THURS., FEB 14th 0011'7' WAIJ' 'Til ITS 7'00 UIJ'E markets. Expense paid training '"EXPO ROMA... and they start after the program in Chapel Hill, NC. Looking NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD Come experience the beauty of the Indigo Girls The Lil' Gherkin needs a home. He 
for enthusiastic, goal-oriented NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO art and architecture of Rome, as is interested in making someone students for challenging, well-paying FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR presented by 4th-year architecture happy and healthy. He prefers summer job. Internships may be 2773097 majors. cabbage "patches", but enjoys water available. Interviews on campus FEB. 14 ·FEB. 23 at the School of ATIENTION KNOBS!!!! sports too. Give Vic a call and see Friday, February 22nd. Sign up at Architecture Bldg. PLAYING AT CLUB 23 SAT. if you are the "one" lor his little the Career & Placement Services. FREEDOM! Rent the best houses. ...EXPO ROMA"• FEB16 DOORKNOB LORE friend. No number 
Prime locations. 233-"'EXPO ROMA'" The Ceremony is about to begin; needed...everyone knows VIC's ·oepenct··'" ·. :·· t , ~ ,
,.
-----·---------' 

9947. "'EXPO ROMA... everybody in? number. 



SCOREBOARD

Wednesday, February 13, 1991 page 13 page 14 The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS  NBA BOXES  NCAA BOXES  NHL LINESCORES  NHL STANDINGS  
All Times EST  DALLAS(92)  PROVIDENCE (83)  St. Louis  2  1-4  All Times EST  
EASTERN CONFERENCE  McCray 7-11 0-0 14, Whrte 3-6 3-4 9. Donaldson  Turner 0-2 2-2 2, Bragg 8-11 4-7 20, Saddler 7­ Edmonton  0  2  (}--2  WALES CONFERENCE  
Atlantic Division  2-8 1-2 5, Harper 6-12 8-9 21, Blackman 8-22 5-5  16 3·517, Forbes 2-4 0-0 5, Murdock 7-17 2-4 16,  First Period-!, St. LoUis, Hull 59 (Courtnall),  Patrick Dtvlslon  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10 Streak  22, English 3-10 4-6 1 0, WiHiams 2-8 0-0 4, Davis  Campbell 0-0 1-2 1. Watts 1-5 0-0 3, Simpkins 3-5  2:28. Penalties--Tikkanen, Edm (interference),  W  L  T  Pis GF GA  
Boston  35  12  .745­ 6-4  Won3  0-5 0-0 0. Shasky 0-0 1-2 1, Upshaw 3-6 0-0 6.  3-6 9. Brown 1-4 1-1 3, McDonald 2-6 0-0 6, Floyd  5:58, Courtnall, StL (holding), 8:20.  NY Rangers 29  20  9  67  214 180  
Philadelphia 25  21  .543 9 112  3-7  Wont  Totals 34-88 22-28 92.  0-1 1-2 1, Western 0-0 0-0 0, McNulty 0-0 0-0 0.  Second Period-2, St. Louis, Brown 11 (Hull,  Pittsburgh  29  25  3  61  242 216  
New York  21  27  .438 14 1/2  4-6  Wont  CHARLOTIE (100)  Totals 31-71 17-29 83.  Oates), 3:32 (pp). 3, Edmonton. Semenov 10  Philadelphia 27  26  6  60  191 184  
Washington  21  28  .429 15  3-7  Lost 1  Newman 9-18 3-5 21, Reid 2·8 0-2 4, Gminski 6­ SYRACUSE (101)  (Messier), 8:22. 4. Edmonton, Murphy 20 (Lowe,  New Jersey 24  23  1 0  58  203 187  
New Jersey  14  34  .292 21 1/2  2-8  Lost 7  14 6-718. Chapman 5-8 0-010, Gill 4-9 6-8 14,  Owens 10·19 3-6 25, Johnson 7-14 2-519, Ellis  Semenov), 15:35. 5, St. Louis, Courtnall 21,  Washington  27  28  3  57  189 193  
Miami  13  35  .271  22 1/2  3-7  Lost 1  Bogues 1-5 0-0 2, Curry 5-12 0-0 10, Lackner 3-5  3-6 3-4 9, Edwards 7-10 2·5 19, Autry 5-8 4-4 16,  (Oates, Hull), 19:59 (pp). Penafties--Linseman.  NY Islanders 19  31  8  46  168 210  
Central Division  1-2 7. Tripucka 1-4 0-0 2, Ganison 5-9 2-312.  Hopkins 3-61-1 7, McRae 1-2 2-2 4, McCorkle 0-0  Edm (high-sticking), 2:03: Bassen, Stl (roughing),  Adams Division  
Chicago  33  14  .702­ 6-4  Won3  Totals 41-9218-27100.  0-2 0, Sieck 0-0 2-2 2, Bartok 0·0 0-0 0, Cohen 0-0  4:26; Joseph, Edm (roughing), 4:26: Lowry, StL  Boston  34  18  8  76  223194  
Detroit  34  15  .694­ 7-3  Lost 1  Dallas  21  29  15  27-92  0-0 0, Small 0-0 0-0 0, Carey 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 36·  (stashing), 13:57; Klima, Edm (slashing), 13:57;  Montreal  32  21  6  70  205181  
Milwaukee  30  19  .612 4  3-7  Lost 1  Charlotte  21  25  23  31-100  6519-31101.  Semenov. Edm (high-sticking), 18:05; Beukeboom,  Hartford  25  26  6  56  164187  
Atlanta  26  22  .542 71/2  3-7  Lost 1  3-Point goals--Dallas 2-7 (Harper 1-1, Blackman  Halftime--Syracuse 48, Providence 35. 3-point  Edm (boarding), 19:23.  Buffalo  22  23  12  56  199194  
Indiana  19  28  .404 14  5-5  Lost 3  1-1 . McCray 0-1 , Williams 0-1, Upshaw 0-1 , Davis  goals--Providence 4-17 (McDonald 2-5, Forbes 1·  Third Period-S, St. Louis, Counnall 22  Quebec  12  36  10  34  167 257  
Cleveland  16  32  .333 17 1/2  4-6  Wont  0-2), Charlotte 0-3 (Newman 0-1, Chapman 0-1,  2, Watts 1-4, McNulty 0-1, Turner 0-2, Murdock 0­ (Meagher, Tuttle), 9:31. Penalties--Hull, StL  CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Charlotte  15  33  .313 18 1/2  3-7  Won 1  Curry 0-1). Rebounds-Dallas 58 (McCray 12),  3), Syracuse 10-16 (Johnson 3-4, Edwards 3-5,  (interference), 3:27; Featherstone, Stl (tripping).  Norris Division  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  Charlotte 62 (Gminski 14). Assists--Dallas 23  Autry 2-2, Owens 2-4, Cohen 0-1 ). Fouled  10:10.  W  L  T  Pis GF GA  
Midwest Division  (Harper, Davis 6), Charlotte 29 (Gill 6). Total  out-Bragg. Rebounds-Providence 35 (Saddler  Shots on goal--St. Louis 10-11-6-27.  St. Louis  34  16  7  75  225 180  
w  L  Pet  GB  L10 Streak  fouls--Dallas 21, Charlotte 24. A-23,901.  10), Syracuse 50 (Owens 16).  Edmonton 8-11-3-22.  Chicago  35  19  4  74  193 152  
San Antonio 33  13  .717­ 7-3  Won2  Assists-Providence 16 (Simpkins 5), Syracuse 19  Goalies--St. Louis, Riendeau, 22-7-5 (22 shots- Detroit  26  28  5  57  208 217  
Utah  31  16  .660 2 112  6-4  Wont  CLEVELAND (94)  (Owens, Autry 5). Total louis--Providence 28,  20 saves). Edmonton. Reddick, 0-2-0 (27-23).  Minnesota  19  32  9  47  186 209  
Houston  27  21  .563 7  7-3  Won4  Brown 2-3 2-4 6. Nance 9-16 2-2 20, Daugherty  Syracuse 23. A-28,596.  Toronto  15  36  6  36  168 237  
Dallas  17  28  .378 15 1/2  5-5  Lost 1  11-16 3-6 25, Ehlo 2-6 0-0 4, Valentine 2-4 0-0 4,  Buffalo  0  2  2  (}--4  Smythe Division  
Minnesota  16  29  .356 16 1/2  4-6  Lost 1  Morton 3-6 2-2 8, Williams 4-6 0-0 8, Ferry 3-8 0-2  Quebec  2  1  1  (}--4  Los Angeles 31  19  6  68  232 181  
Ortando  15  33  .313 19  5-5  Won4  6, Paddio 4-10 3-311. Chievous 0-0 2-4 2. Kerr 0­ Pll'TSBURGH (73)  First Period-I, Quebec, Wolanin 4 (Sakic).  Calgary  30  21  5  65  226176  
Denver  14  32  .304 19  7-3  Lost2  0 0-0 0. Totals 40-75 14-23 94.  Shorter 1-5 0-2 2, Porter 2-9 4-6 B. Martin 3-10  5:34."2, Quebec, Sakic 32, 8:14. Penalties--Vaive,  Edmonton  28  26  3  59  199 192  
Pacific Division  MIAMI (78)  0-2 6, Miller 6-8 4·4 22, Shareef 1-3 0-0 2, Jones  Buf (hooking). :52; Gillis, Que (interference), 6:14:  Winnipeg  21  31  9  51  199 215  
Portland  39  9  .813­ 8-2  Lost 1  Long 9-12 0-0 18, Thompson 0-0 0-0 0, Seikaly  1-2 2-2 4. Matthews 4·1 0 5-5 16, McNeal 2-6 0-0  Bodger, But (holding), 10:44: Vaive, But  Vancouver  20  34  5  45  175 232  
LA Lakers  35  12  .745 3 1/2  9-1  Lost 1  3-12 1-5 7. Douglas 12-20 5-6 29, Rice 4-19 0-0 8,  4, Morningstar 1-5 5-5 7. Jordan 1-3 0-0 2. Moses  (unsportsmanlike conduct), 16:16; Gillis, Que  Tuesday's Games  
Phoenix  31  16  .660 7112  6-4  Won 1  Burton 1-8 0-0 2, Kessler 1-3 0-0 2, Edwards 2-10  0-0 0-0 o. Totals 22-61 20-26 73.  (unsportsmanlike conduct), 16:16: Velischek, Que  Late Game Not Included  
Golden State 26  20  .565 12  6-4  Lost 1  0-0 4, Coles 3-4 0-2 6, Ogg 1-1 0-0 2. Askins 0-1  SETON HALL (83)  (holding), 19:28.  Detroit 6, Winnipeg 1  
Seattle  22  23  .489  151/2  6-4  Won2  0-0 O.Totals 36-90 6-13 78.  Winchester 2-2 0-1 4, Karnishovas 1-6 4-4 6,  Second Period-3, Quebec. Sakic 33  N.Y. Islanders 5. Minnesota 4  
LA Clippers  15  32  .319 23 1/2  2·8  Lost5  Cleveland  17  24  23  3(}--94  Avent6-14 9-10 21, Taylor 3-6 0-0 6, Dehere 7-10  (Leschyshyn, Morin), 3:36. 4, Buffalo, Andreychuk  Buffalo 4, Quebec 4, tie  
Sacramento  13  32  .289 24 112  4-6  Won 1  Miami  18  21  18  21-78  7-7 25, Caver 4-5 2-4 iO, Walker 2-5 5-6 9, Barnea  21 (Hawerchuk. Ledyard), 3:52 (pp). 5, Buffalo,  St. Louis 4, Edmonton 2  
Tuesday's Games  3-Point goals-Cleveland 0-2 (Ehlo 0-2), Miami  1-2 0·0 2. Totals 26-50 27-32 83.  Ledyard 3 (Hawerchuk, Turgeon), 7:56 (pp).  Calgary at Los Angeles, (n)  
Late Games Not Included  0-6 (Edwards 0-1, Douglas 0·1, Askins 0-1, Rice 0­ Halftime--Seton Hall 37, Pittsburgh 36. 3-point  Penalties--Nolan, Que (slashing), 3:36: Quebec  Wednesday's Games  
Charlotte 100. Dallas 92  3). Rebounds-Cleveland 58 (Daugherty 15),  goals--Pittsburgh 9-16 (Miller 6-6, Matthew5 3-6,  bench, served by Hrkac (too many men), 6:02:  M1nnesota at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m.  
New York 114. Indiana 110  Miami 47 (long 1 0). Assists-Cleveland 23  Porter 0-2, Jordan 0-2), Seton Hall 4-7 (Dehere 4·  Ray. But, major (fighting), 8:41: Finn. Que. major  Detroit at Hartford, 7:35p.m.  
Cleveland 94, Miami 78  (Morton 8). Miami 17 (Douglas, Edwards 4). Total  5, Karnishovas 0-2). Fouled out-None.  (fighting), 8:41: Pearson. Que (interference),  Boston at Montreal, 7:35p.m.  
Orlando 129. Denver 122  fouls-Cleveland 13, Miami 24. A-15,008.  Rebounds--Pittsburgh 36 (Martin 9), Seton Hall 34  18:27.  New Jersey at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m.  
Phoenix 99, LA Lakers 95  (Avent 11 ). Assists-Pittsburgh 11 (Miller 5), Seton  Third Period-6. Buffalo. Vaive 20 (Hawerchuk),  Philadelphia at Toronto, 7:35 p.m.  
Chicago 122. Atlanta 113 San Antonio 102, Washington 92  LOS ANGELES (95) Perkins 10-156-726, Worthy 10-221-221.  Hall 13 (Taylor 5). Total fouls--Pittsburgh 22, Seton Hall 25. Technical-Miller. A-13,101.  3:26.7, Quebec, Sundin 16 (Finn, Miller). 4:18.8. Buffalo, Hogue 13 (Makela, Turgeon), 14:36.  AP WOMEN'S TOP 25  
Houston at Utah, (n)  Divac 2-4 0-0 4, E.Johnson 4-7 4-4 14, Seen 3-6 0­ Penalties--Ray. But (unsportsmanlike conduct),  
Boston at Seattle, (n)  0 6, Green 4-10 4-5 12, Teagle 4-8 0-0 8, Smith 1­ 2:12; Gillis, Que (unsportsmanlike conduct), 2:12:  1. Virginia (22-1) did not play.  
Minnesota at Golden State, (n)  2 0-0 2, Thompson 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 39-75 15-18  KANSAS (74)  Hogue, But (roughing). 4:45: Gillis, Que  2. Penn State (21-1) did not play.  
Philadelphia at Portland, (n)  95.  Jamison 2·5 7-12 11, Maddox 2-4 1-2 5. Randall  (elbowing), 8:12.  3. Georgia (21-2) did not play.  
LA Clippers at Sacramento, (n)  PHOENIX (99)  2-5 6-10 1 0, Brown 4-13 5-6 15. Jordan 2-4 4-6 B.  Overtim~one. Penalties-None.  4. Tennessee (20-4) did not play.  
Wednesday's Games  Chambers 7-17 4-4 18, McDaniel3-11 0-0 6,  Richey 2-3 1-2 6, Woodberry 3-6 3-4 9. Tunstall 2­ Shots on goal-Buffalo 11-15-8-2-36. Quebec  5. Auburn (20-3) did not play.  
Dallas at Cleveland. 7:30p.m.  West4-5 0-1 B. Hornacek 8-11 5-5 23, K.Johnson  8 0·0 4, Scott 3-3 0-2 6, Wagner 0-0 0-0 0, Nash 0­ 8-9·12-1-30.  6. Purdue (19-2) did not play.  
Indiana at Detroit, 7:30 p.m.  14-23 7-7 35, Lang 2-2 0-0 4, Majerle 0-8 3-4 3.  1 0·0 0, Johanning 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 22-53 27-44  Goalies-Buffalo. Puppa, 12-10-5 (30 shots-26  7. North Carolina State (20-4) beat North  
Atlanta at New Jersey, 7:30p.m.  Rambis 1-1 0-0 2. Nealy 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 39-78  74.  saves). Quebec. Fiset. 0-0-1 (36-32).  Carolina 90-70.  
Minnesota at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m.  19-2199.  MISSOURI (70)  a. Western Kentucky (20-1) did not play.  
Los Angeles 31  21  18  25-95  Coleman 4-9 3-7 11. Warren 2·5 2-4 6, D.Smith  Minnesota  2  0  2-4  9. Arkansas (20-3) beat Texas ~h 82-70.  
AP MEN'S TOP 25  Phoenix 28 26 18 27-99 3-Point goals-Los Angeles 2· 7 (E.Johnson 2·4.  10-15 3-3 23. Booker 2·9 8-13 12, Peeler 5-17 5-9 16. R.Smith 0-0 0-0 0, Horton 0-1 0-0 0, Frost 1-3  NY Islanders 2 1 2-5 First Period-!. New York, King 16 (Sutter,  10. Washington (17-3) did not play. 11. Stanford (17-4) did not play.  
Worthy 0-1. Green 0-1. Seen 0·1). Phoenix 2-6  0·0 2, Burns 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 24-59 21-36 70,  Reekie), :36. 2, Minnesota, Dahlquist 3 (Duchesne.  12. LSU (17-5) did not play  
1. UNLV (20-0) did not play. Next: vs. UC Santa  (Hornacek 2-2, Chambers 0-1, K.Johnson 0-1,  Halftime--Missouri 31. Kansas 22. 3-point  Tinordi), 2:05. 3, New York. Lauer 2 (Reekie,  13. Rutgers (19-3) beat Duquesne 80-58.  
Barbara. Thursday.  Majerle 0-2). Rebounds--Los Angeles 41 (Divac.  goals--Kansas 3-12 (Brown 2-6, Richey 1-1,  Sutter), 8:28 (sh). 4. Minnesota, Glynn 4 (Smrth,  14. Mississippi (17-5) did not play.  
2. Oh•o State (20-1) did not play. Next: at  Green 9), Phoenix 39 (West 13). Assists-Los  Jordan 0-1. Woodberry 0-1, Tunstall 0-3) Missouri  Gagner), 17:32 (pp). Penalties--Piton, NY  15. Connecticut (19-3) did not play.  
Wisconsin. Thursday.  Angeles 28 (E.Johnson 15), Phoenix 22  1-6 (Peeler 1-3, Coleman 0-1, Booker 0-1, Forst 0­ (holding), 8:20; Smith, Min (tripping). 15:23: Sutter,  16. Texas (15-6) did not play.  
3. Arkansas (23-2) did not play. Next: vs. Texas  (K.Johnson. Hornacek 7). Total fouls--Los Angeles  1). Fouled out-Jordan, Coleman, Warren. Booker.  NY (tripping). 15:38; Dahlquist, NY (interference).  17. Providence (20-3) did not play.  
Tech, Wednesday.  19, Phoenix 16. Technicals-Los Angeles illegal  Rebounds-Kansas 40 (Brown 7). Missouri 45  19:21.  18. UNLV (18-5) did not play.  
4. Indiana (22-2) did not play. Next: at No. 3  defense 2, Phoenix illegal defense 3. A-14.487.  (D.Smith 14). Assists-Kansas 13 (Maddox 4).  Second Period-5, New York, Ferraro 15, 14:08.  19. Northwestern (14-6) did not play.  
Ohio State. Sunday.  Missouri 10 (D.Smith 3). Total fouls--Kansas 29,  Penalties--Glynn. Min (hooking). 4:05: Ludwig, NY  20. Notre Dame (17-4) beat Butler 94-62.  
5. Duke (21-4) did not play. Next: vs. Davidson.  DENVER (122)  Missouri 27. Technicals-Missouri bench, D.Smrth.  (hooking), 6:46.  21. Stephen F. Austin (17-3) did not play.  
Wednesday.  Wolf 6-7 0-0 12. Cook 4-6 1-2 9, Rasmussen 4-9  A-13.300.  Third Period-B. Minnesota, Berezan 8 (Propp),  22. Iowa (13-7) did not play.  
6. Arizona (19-4) did not play. Next: vs. Arizona  0-0 B. Jackson 16-32 3·4 35, Williams 8-16 4-4 20,  6:43 (sh). 7, New York, King 17 (Flatley), 8:03. 8,  23. Clemson (16-7) did not play.  
State. Wednesday  Lane 1-3 0·0 2, Woolridge 3·12 9-10 15, Neal 5-7  New York. LaFontaine 31 (Wood. Reekie). 17:06.  24. Long Beach State (14-7) did not play.  
7. Syracuse (21·3) beat Providence 101-83.  1-2 14. Ltberty 2-4 0-0 5, G.Anderson 0-0 0-0 0,  RICE(64)  9, Minnesota, Modano 17 (Gagner. Tinordi), 17:49.  25. Florida State (17-4) did not play.  
Next: at Boston College. Saturday. 8. North Carolina (17-4) did not play. Next: vs.  Battle 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 50-97 18-22 122. ORLANDO (129)  Andrews 4-8 3-4 11, Maag 5-17 0·0 10. Scott 11· 21 2-9 24. Hardy 3-7 0-0 6, Moore 2-3 0-0 6.  Penafties-Sinisalo, Min (high-sticking), 5:57; Berg, NY (holding), 10:33; Nylund. NY  NO-BUTLER BOX  
Wake Forest. Wednesday.  Scott 3·8 0·0 6, Turner 0·5 0-0 0, Kite 4-8 2·2 10,  Campbell 2-7 0-0 5, Stickland 0-1 0·0 0, Scott 0-1  (interference), 19:31.  
9. Southern Mississippi (18-2) did not play. Next:  Skiles 10-21 10-11 33. Sm1th 9-19 8-10 26, Acres  0-0 0, Rourke 1·5 0-0 2. Totals 28-70 5-13 64.  Shots on goal-Minnesota 16-6-6-30. New  BUTLER (62)  
vs. South Alabama. Thursday.  1·1 0-0 2, Ansley 2-3 0-0 4. Reynolds 10-20 6·6  TEXAS (65)  York 15·6-5-26.  Majewski 1-3 4-6 6, Miller 3·1 0 1-2 9, Anderson  
10. East Tennessee State (21·3) did not play.  26, N.Anderson 5-7 3-4 13, Vincent 2·3 0-0 4,  Williams 5·8 5-7 15. Collie 4-9 3-3 11, Myers 2-5  Goalies--Minnesota. Hayward, 5-12-2 (26  3-10 0-0 6, Cotton 2-5 4-5 8, VonDielingen 6-10  
Next: at Liberty. Thursday.  Catledge 2-8 1-4 5.Totals 48-103 30-37 129.  0-0 4, Jeans 0-3 4-4 4, Wnght 7-19 1-2 19, McCoy  shots-21 saves). New York, Healy, 13-16-7 (30­ 9-11 22. Oltmanns 1-1 0-3 2. Aldridge 0-1 0-0 0,  
11. Kansas (18-4) beat Missouri 74-70. Next: vs.  Denver  28  33  31  30--122  0-5 1-2 1, Burditt 0-0 0-2 0, Cambridge 4·6 3-4 11.  26).  Warwick 0-0 0-0 0. Bohman 0-0 0-0 0, Rexwinkel  
Kansas State, Saturday.  Orlando  28  25  34  42-129  Totals 22-55 17·24 65.  1-1 0-1 2, Fuller 1-3 0-0 2, Kimble 1-5 0-0 3, Sloan  
12. New Mexico State (18-2) did not play. Next:  3-Point goals-Denver 4-14 (Neal 3-3, Liberty 1·  Halftime--Texas 34, Rice 26. 3-point goals--Rice  Winnipeg  0  (}--1  1-4 0-0 2. Totals 20-53 18-28 62.  
vs. Fullerton State. Thursday.  3. Williams 0-3, Jackson 0-5), Orlando 3-8 (Skiles  3-10 (Moore 2-2, Campbell 1-2, Maag 0-3. Hardy  Detroit  1  0  5--<l  NOTRE DAME (94)  
13. St. John's (16-5) did not play. Next: at  3-6. Seen 0-2). Fouled out-Williams.  0-3), Texas 4-16 (Wright 4-9, Collie 0-1. Jeans 0-1,  First PericxJ-'.'t.Winnipeg. Elynuik 25 (Steen.  Alexander t-1 0-0 2, Davis 6-10 2-5 14, Nowlin  
Boston College, Wednesday.  Rebounds-Denver 46 (Lane 9). Orlando 67(Kite  Cambridge 0-1. McCoy 0-4). Fouled out-None.  Ashton). 1 :29. 2, Detroit, Probert 11 (Ysebaert,  8-14 0-0 16, Robinson 10-12 2-2 22, Washington  
14. Utah (22-2) did not play. Next: vs. Wyoming.  16). Ass1sts-Denver 27 (Neal, Jackson 7),  Rebounds--Rice 41 (Scott 11 ), Texas 43  Yzerman), 7:24 (pp). Penalties--Winnipeg bench,  3-9 0-2 7, Knapp 7-11 2-2 16, Leary 0-0 0-0 0,  
Thursday.  Orlando 22 (Skiles 9). Total fouls-Denver 30,  (Locksley, Cambridge 8). Assists--Rice 13 (Hardy  served by Evans (too many men), 5:55; Primeau,  Liebscher 5-6 3-3 15, Orlosky 1-5 0-0 2. Totals  
15. UCLA (17-5) did not play. Next: at California.  Orlando 15. Technicals-Skiles. Orlando delay ol  5). Texas 1 0 (Jeans, McCoy 3). Total fouls-Rice  Del (cross-checking). 7:59: Houda, Det (holding),  41-68 9-14 94.  
Thursday.  game. A-15,077.  19, Texas 19. A-12,065.  18:14.  Halftime--Notre Dame 37 Butler 28. 3-point  
16. Kentucky (17-5) did not play. Next: vs. Tennessee. Wednesday.  WASHINGTON (92)  NO-MARQUETTE BOX  Second Period-None. Penalties-Carlyle, Win (interference), 5:54: Evans, Win (unsportsmanlike  goals--Butler 4-8 (Miller 2·2, VonDielingen 1-1. Kimble 1-3, Sloan 0-2), Notre Dame 3-5 (Robinson  
17. Nebraska (19·4) did not play. Next: at Iowa  King 9-23 4-5 22, Grant 5-16 3-4 13, Jones 0-1  conduct), 11:46: Gallant, Del (unsportsmanlike  0-1, Washington t-2, Liebscher 2-2). Rebounds­ 
State. Wednesday.  0-0 0, English 6-13 0-0 12. Eackles 11-22 1-2 24,  NOTRE DAME (63)  conduct), 11:46: Dallas, Del (interference), 14:28:  Butler 27 (VonDielingen 6). Notre Dame 43 (Nowlin  
18. Georgetown (15-7) did not play. Next: at  Williams 1-61-2 3, Ellison 3-6 1-2 7. Smith 0-0 t-2  Ellery 4·7 4-4 14, Joe Ross 3-5 0-0 6, Tower 2-5,  Carlyle, Win (hooking), 20:00.  12). Assists-Butler 13 (Majewski 4), Notre Dame  
Seton Hall. Saturday.  1. Irvin 2-3 1·2 5, Alarie 2-5 1-2 5. Totals 39-95 13·  4-4 8, Singleton 4-6 3-3 11, Bennett 6·9 4· 7 18,  Third Period-3, Detroit, Federov 27 (Probert,  28 (Washington 12). Turnovers--Butler 25, Notre  
19. Virginia (17-7) d1d not play. Next: vs.  21 92.  Sweet 3-5 0-0 6, Jon Ross 0-2 0-0 0, Boyer 0-0 0­ Racine), :26 (pp). 4, Detroit, Barr 15 (Dallas), 1:45.  Dame 20. Total fouls-Butler 14, Notre Dame 20.  
Fairfield, Wednesday.  SAN ANTONIO (102)  0 0. Totals 22-3915-18 63.  5, Detroit, Racine 6 (Yzerman, Federov), 8:12 (pp).  A-926.  
20. LSU (15-7) d1d not play. Next: vs. Auburn. Wednesday.  Elliott t-10 5·6 7. Robinson 7-14 6-7 20, Schintz1us 5-10 3-4 13. Johnson 2-8 0-0 4,  MARQUETIE (62) Powell 3-5 0-2 6, Curry 5-12 4-6 14, Key 6-9 2-2  6, Detrort. Yzerman 41 (Zombo), 9:04. 7, Detroit, Garpenlov 15 (Yzerman), 19:52 (pp).  TRANSACTIONS  
21. Oklahoma State (16-5) did not play. Next: vs.  Anderson 11-16 0-0 22. Pressey 7-8 1-1 15, Len 1­ 14, Logterman 3-8 0-0 B. Anglavar 0-1 0-0 0.  Penalties--Oollas, Det (tripping), 2:15: Marsh, Det  
Oklahoma. Wednesday.  7 0-0 2. Massenburg 2-6 0-0 4, Higgins 1-5 0-0 2.  Zulauf 2-3 0-0 5, Mcilvaine 6-7 3-4 15, Hayes 0-0  (roughing), 5:30: Cole. Win (holding), 8:01: Evans,  BASEBALL  
22. Pittsburgh (17-8) lost to Seton Ha1183-73.  Green 5-11 3-413.Totals 42-9518-22 102.  0-0 0, Brakes 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 25-46 9-14 62  Win (toughing), 14:22; McKay, Del, double minor  American Lea11ue  
Next: vs. No. 13 St. John's, Saturday.  Washington  22  26  24  20--92  Halftime-Notre Dame 34, Marquette 27. 3­ (roughing), 14:22: McLiwain, Win (hooking), 15:39;  BALTIMORE ORIOLE$-Agreed to terms with  
23. Mississippi State (15-6) d1d not play. Next: at  San Antonio 32  33  18  19-102  po1nt goals-Notre Dame 4-5 (Ellery 2-2, Bennett  Ashton, W1n. double minor (holding,  Glenn Davis, first baseman. on a one-year  
Mississippi. Wednesday.  3-POint goals-Washington t-4 (Eackles 1·2,  2-3), Marquette 3-9 (Logterman 2-5, Zulauf 1-2,  unsportsmanlike conduct), 18:31.  contract.  
24. Texas (17-5) beat Rtce 65-64. Next: at  King 0-1, English 0-1 ). San Antonio 0-2 (Higgins 0­ Anglavar 0-1, Brakes 0-1). Rebounds-Notre  Shots on goal-Winnipeg 9-7-1(}--26. Detroit 8­ BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms with Joe  
Houston. Sunday.  1, Len 0-1). Rebounds--Washington 59 (King.  Dame 23 (Tower 5), Marquette 23 (Curry 7).  9-13-30.  Hesketh, pitcher, on a one-year contract.  
25. Princeton (16-2) did not play. Next: at Brown,  Grant. Jones 9), San Antonio 62 (Green 13).  Assists-Notre Dame 15 (Singleton 8), Marquette  Goalies--Winnipeg, Essensa, 15-16-4 (23  CALIFORNIA ANGEL$-Agreed to terms with  
Friday.  Assists-Washington 20 (King, Eackles 5), San  17 (Curry 4, Zulauf 4). Total fouls-Notre Dame  shots-19 saves), Tabaracci (8:12 third, 7-5).  Dave Gallagher, outfielder. on a one-year contract.  
Antonio 27 (Johnson 7).  '4. Marquette 18. A-14,933.  Detroit, Cheveldae, 22-21-4 (26-25).  CLEVELAND INDIAN$-Agreed to terms with  
Chris James. outfielder. and Kevin Wickander.  
~:__i::•:_•......~:.:_:_·~~~~~~~~:*~o·~~~CiAt*BOUT~!  pitcher, on one-year contracts. MILWAUKEE BREWER$-Agreed to terms with Kevin Brown and Angel Miranda, pitchers, on one­ 
year contracts.  
:  is looking for enthusiastic individuals to  iC  MINNESOTA TWIN$-Agreed to terms with Derek Parks, catcher, on a one-year contract.  
NEW YORK YANKEE$-Agreed to terms with  
Alvaro Espinoza, shortstop. on a one-year  
contract.  
OAKLAND ATHLETIC$-Agreed to terms with  
·,·,  Walt Weiss. shortstop. on a one-year contract.  
:::_:_!::_:.• :_·:_·  it  7pm in the Boxi~~ ::'a~1om at the JACC  t  TEXAS RANGER$-Agreed to terms with Rafael Palmeiro, outfielder, on a one-year contract. TORONTO BLUE JAY$-Agreed to terms wrth Kelly Gruber, third baseman, on a three-year  
~ Amv Raczkowski 272-8954 _.********************  contract. National League MONTREAL EXPO$-Agreed to terms w1th  
·:·  Nelson Santovenia, catcher, on a one-year  
::~  ~====~ENIOR~====~  contract . ST. LOUIS CARDINAL$-Agreed to terms with Jose Oquendo. infielder. on a four-year contract and Rich Gedman, catcher, on a minor league  
contract.  
BASKETBALL  
National Basketball Association  
Want to teach English in Japan? Join  WASHINGTON BULLET$-Activated John Williams. forward, from the suspended list.  
Eseap• for Jr. Partonts" Ytotoktond ___ _  the Good Shepherd Program for a year  FOOTBALL National Football League  
•••:::  tah th• WIN DV CITY SHUTTLE  to ChiCOIICJO.  after graduation.  MIAMI DOLPHIN5--Signed Brent Fullwood. fullback.  
ONLY $10.00 ROUND TRIP  COLLEGE CLEMSON-Announced that Sean Tyson.  
For more information come to the Center  senior forward, has been permanently suspended after being charged with assauft1ng a female  
(Tfoktots avaflablt> at laFortunto lnform011tion Desk_) .. :-:·.·.·.·.·:·.·.·.·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·:·.·:·.·.·.·:·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:::  for Social Concerns Wednesday, February 13 or Thursda , Februar 14 from 10-5 m .  student. WILLIAM & MARY-Announced rt will eliminate its women's baskelball, wrestling, and men's and women's swimming programs next fall.  

Irish men's tennis drops a tough match to Hoosiers 

By DAVE McMAHON Sports Writer 
Indiana rolled into the Eck Pavilion yesterday afternnoon on a roll, having won its last three matches by a combined score of 23-0. Late last night, the Hoosiers continued their roll, but only did so with a little help from the Notre Dame men's tennis team. After a gru­eling six hour match, Indiana improved its record to 6-1 with a hard-fought 5-4 win over the Irish (3-3). 
It was a wake-up call for the Irish, but don't expect the top­ranked team in the region to be pushing any snooze buttons. 
MThis team has too much character to fold," said junior Dave DiLucia, who blasted Indiana's David McCallum, 6-1, 6-0, at number one singles. MI think if anything it'll make us stronger and we'll go on from here." 
Sophomre Chuck Coleman took an opening round lead, but fell 6-2, 3-6, 4-6 to Nigel Russell, who entered the match
I 
with a 9-9 record. 

I
I , Will Forsyth posted a victory for Notre Dame at number
I 
I three singles, upsetting senior 
I Gunnar Salumaa in straight 
I sets, 6-3. 6-2. 
I MHe was their number one I player last year and he has I ', beaten DiLucia, so it was tremendous win for Will," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. MHe The Observer I John Cluver had been struggling in the past
Mark Schmidt pulled out a greuling three-set match last night, but Notre 
few matches, so this was a 
Dame lost the match to Indiana 5-4. 
match he really needed." 


New Hampshire halts nation's longest home losing streak 
DURHAM. N.H.(AP) -For the first time in three years, New Hampshire basketball players can walk the campus without hearing whispers about the longest home losing streak in the nation. 
The Wildcats ended the Lundholm Gymnasium night­mare at 32 games Monday night with a 72-56 victory over Holy Cross. On Tuesday, the glow surrounding the victory was brighter than ever. 
"It feels great," said Bob Cummins, a junior guard who 
Bennett 
continued from page 20 
not lost on his teammates. 
"Elmer saved us," said Keith Tower. MHe's the kind of player who wants the ball coming into a game, and we're happy to give it to him, because he controls the ball well and is capable of hitting the big shots." 
Of course, it is always important to avoid being 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
schedule in the nation. In February and March they will face highly touted teams such as Stanford, Texas, LSU, Auburn, UCLA, Minnesota, Ohio State and Michigan. 
MI don't know of any teams that play that tough a schedule so early," said Murphy. "I talked to Miami's coach, and he said, 'Murphy, you definitely have the toughest schedule early.' It's going to be a fun and challenge. I'm excited and really looking forward to it." 
The difficulty of schedule may mean a record worse than last year's 46-12. But if the Irish maintain a respectable record, the NCAA tournament commit­tee will have a difficult time ig­

scored 11 points. "It's going to 
be nice  to  be able  to  walk  
around  campus  and  feel  
proud."  

Cummins said the streak weighed heavily on players. 
"I thought about it all the time," he said. "It affected my whole life. It was tough being on campus. You'd hear people making jokes about the team. It wore us down. It's something I never want to go through again." 
Eric Thielen, the only senior on the squad, is the only player 
deceived by numbers. Four of Bennett's six second-half points came within the last 2:05-starting with his 18­footer from the right corner to put Notre Dame up 55-50. 
Marquette's Jim Mcilvaine responded with a layup from the left side. but Bennett answered again. as he sank a jumper from the right side with 1:2 3 left to regain the five-point lead. Bennett then seized a defensive reQound and missed two foul shots, while the Irish clung to their 
noring the Irish yet again. 
And this year's team will be talented. The 1991 squad is be­ing heralded as the best Notre Dame has produced in the four years Murphy has been here, and perhaps the best ever. 
MA lot of people say this is going to be Notre Dame's best team it's ever had, and that's been the consensus among peo­ple who follow college base­ball," said Guilfoile. 
who was around for the last home victory, Feb. 7, 1988 against Colgate. He had 9 points and 11 rebounds against Holy Cross. 
"It's been a long road," he said. ''I'm really happy for ev­erybody on the team. Now we can start over. The monkey is off our back." 
Second-year coach Jim Boylan was exuberant. 
"I was kind of numb at the time of the win, but as the day progresses it becomes more satisfying," he said. MI watched 
57-52 lead with 51 seconds left. 
Bennett's two other points came at the foul line, courtesy of Marquette's Mark Anglavar. Bennett hit both foul shots to vault Notre Dame ahead 49-46 earlier in the contest. 
Jay Zulauf drilled a three­pointer to pull the Warriors within two points, but six made foul shots by Singleton, Tower and Ellery finished Marquette. 
Murphy certainly is subscrib­ing to that consensus, despite the fact that Notre Dame's challenging schedule may make for a comparatively modest record. 
"If you look at our record over the last three years, our record (this season) may not be as good," he said. MBut I'll guarantee you we'll be the best Notre Dame team that ever went on the baseball field." 
Chi,.....Amerlcan Restaurant I. 


h't~·GR£-AT 
Cocktail LO<Jnge Auth9ntic Szed"luan. Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine


''YALL 
Lunches starting at--.--$3.95 Dinners starting at----$5.45 Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 

_____, ....., .. n.-. 11:llla.m.lo10p.m. Fri.. s.t.11:;JOa.m.to 11 p.m. s-. a _,. 11 ::30 a.m. lo 10 p.m. 130 Dixie Way S., Soutfl Bend (neX11D Randa»" I Inn) 
It was a match the Irish needed as a team as well, but Indiana had other plans after last year's o-0 loss at Bloomington. The Hoosiers played the same six starters who lost in last season's match. 
MThey just flat out-competed us." said a disappointed Bayliss. "It's hard to come into a place like this and win. They played with a lot of spunk and competed hard." 
Irish sophomre Mark Schmidt continued his assault after re­covering from a fall bout with mononucleosis. Although it wasn't his best performance, the Atlanta native outlasted se­nior David Russell, 6-7, 6-3, 7­
5. Down a break in the third set, Schmidt rallied to tie the singles action at 3-3. 
In doubles play, Coleman shook off his singles loss and paired with DiLucia to beat Russell and Salumaa at number one. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it would be their final win of the evening, but not be­fore an invigorating perfor­mance by the number three doubles team of Ryan Wenger and Paul Anthony. 
After winning the opening set 6-3, the senior-sophomore combination, in their first pres­sure-filled test of the season, was on the virge of wrapping it up for the Irish with a match point in the second set. But the Indiana team of David Held and Chris Decker hung tough, rally­ing for a 7-6 (9-7) second set victory. 
The third set brought another opportunity for the duo to end it, with yet another match point, this time at 40-30 and a 5-4 lead. But Anthony hit Held's serve deep, and proceeded to be broken on the ensuing serve. 
MThey were a break down in the third set and had given themselves match point, so it's disappointing," said Forsyth. MBut no individuals lost the match, we lost it as a team." 
MI'm sure it'll come down to them another time and they're gonna pull it off for us," said DiLucia. 
Regardless of who it comes down to in the stretch. expect it to happen often for the Irish, who play some of the finest competition in the nation. 
MMWe need to compete a little harder," said Forsyth. "This was a humbling situation, and if we respond to it the right way, it'll make us a better team." 
While Bayliss thinks his team may have had it easy since earning national acclaim during the fall season, the team has come too far to let one match hinder their performance for the rest of the season. 
"We've earned the right in the fall to represent the region at the National Team Indoors next week, but· maybe we've relaxed a little since then," said Bayliss. MWe played not to lose instead of to win. This was a wake up call or status check. We need to put on our blue-collars and roll up our sleeves and get after it." 

the end of the (game) tape (Tuesday) morning, and it feels really good." 
Boylan said he received many calls from well-wishers, includ­ing Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote, who he worked for before moving to New Hampshire. 
"(Heathcote) said he was watching ESPN (when he heard about the victory) and was hooting and hollering in his liv­ing room. He was real happy for us," Boylan said. 
Vermont coach Tom Brennan, who was scouting the Wildcats, ran to the winning locker room after the game to congratulate Boylan's team. 
"He's had his troubles in past years, and he was really happy for us," Boylan said. "Actually, he kind of went crazy." 
Boylan was doused with wa­ter following the victory, and many of the 564 fans ran onto the court to cut down the net. In the locker room, players cel­ebrated. 

Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
DISCERNMENT RETREAT 
Friday, Feb. 22 -Saturday, Feb. 23 
Moreau SeminaryNotre Dame 
For those students interested in learning more about the Holy Cross Candidate Program and exploring the possibility of priesthood or brotherhood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
For infonnation: Fr. John Conley, CSC 239-6385 

Wednesday, February 13, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Baseball's $3 million club has two new members 
NEW YORK (AP) -Glenn free agent catcher Rich Gedman Davis and Kelly Gruber joined to a minor-league contract. the $3 million club on Tuesday as nine players in salary arbi­Thirty-seven players remain tration agreed to new contracts. in salary arbitration. Right­
Davis and Baltimore settled at hander Tim Belcher and the Los $3,275,000, the midpoint Angeles Dodgers had a hearing between the first baseman's re­Tuesday before arbitrator Reg quest and the Orioles' offer. Alleyne. Right-hander Doug Gruber became the top-paid Drabek and the Pittsburgh third baseman in baseball when Pirates are scheduled for a the Toronto Blue Jays agreed to hearing on Wednesday in an $11 million, three-year deal. Chicago. 
That makes it 36 players at or Gruber, 28, batted .274 last above the $3 million mark, a season with 31 home runs and level first breached by in 118 RBis and made $1.25 mil­November 1989 by Minnesota lion. He will get a $1 million outfielder Kirby Puckett. signing bonus, $2.7 million this 
In another big deal, St. Louis season, $3.3 million in 1992 Cardinals infielder Jose and $4 million in 1993. The av­Oquendo agreed to a four-year, erage annual value of $8.5 million extension through $3,667,667 is the ninth-highest 1995. The Cardinals also signed in baseball. 

Pat LaFontaine of the N.Y. Islanders, shown here against the Blackhawls, scored the game winner as the Isles beat the North Stars. 

GSU 
OFFICER ELECTIONS March 5, 1991 
for the position of and Vice-President by 18. 
Applications for the following positions: 
Orientation Chair and Vice-President for Administration are available at the GSU office. 
Campaign: for the position of Pres. and V.P., February 25-March 1. 
March 5. 

Call the GSU office at more information. 
"We think Kelly is a very in­tegral part of our ball club," Toronto assistant general manager Gord Ash said. "With some of our senior players moving on, Kelly will take on an added role and I think he's ready for that." 
Gruber's contract was the second big deal in a week for the Hendricks' brothers, who negotiated the $21.5 million, four-year extension for Roger Clemens. 
"It's widely recognized that Roger Clemens is a premier player in baseball," Ash said. "You think of star players, you think of Will Clark, Kevin Mitchell, Clemens. Kelly is a great player but he's not at that level yet." 

Davis, 30, was acquired from Houston in January for pitchers Pete Harnisch, Curt Schilling and center fielder Steve Finley. Davis made $1,985,000 last season, when he batted .251 with 22 homers and 64 RBis. 
Oquendo, 27, will make $800,000 this season in the fi­nal year of his current contract. He will get a $1 million signing bonus, $1.8 million in each of the 1992 and 1993 seasons, $1.9 million in 1994 and $2 million in 1995. 
Seven other players in arbi­tration agreed to one-year con­tracts. Texas outfielder Rafael Palmeiro quadrupled his salary from $345,000 to $1,475,000, while Cleveland outfielder Chris James doubled his salary from $620,000 to $1,367,500. 
Boston left-bander Joe Hesketh, who went 0-4 last season with a 3.51 ERA in 12 games, quadrupled his salary from $110,000 to $465,000. 
Shortstop Walt Weiss and Oakland settled at $780,000, a $505,000 raise, while shortstop Alvaro Espinoza and the New York Yankees agreed to $610,000, a $325,000 raise. 
Outfielder Dave Gallagher and California agreed to $367,500, a raise of $267,000, and catcher Nelson Santovenia and Montreal settled at $282,000, a $77,000 raise. 
Isles defeat North Stars, 5-4 
Win brings New York's 6-game winless streak to end 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. (AP) ­Derek King's second goal of the game at 8:03 of the third period broke a tie and Pat LaFontaine added his 31st of the season to give New York a 5-4 victory over the Minnesota North Stars on Tuesday night, snapping the Islanders' six-game winless streak. 
King, who scored the game's first goal in the opening minute, added his 17th of the season on a blistering sl<rp shot from the top of the right circle in the third after a cross-ice pass from Patrick Flatley. 
LaFontaine finished off a 2­on-1 break with Randy Wood by beating Brian Hayward with a low backhander at 17:06 and that proved to be the game­winner when Minnesota's Mike Modano scored at 17:49. 

Sabres 4, Nordiques 4 
Benoit Hogue's tip-in with 
5:24 remaining in regulation time gave Buffalo a come-from­behind tie with Quebec. 
Hogue tipped Pierre Turgeon's pass behind rookie Stephane Fiset for his 13th goal of the season. The goal capped a game-long comeback by the Sabres, who overcame a 3-0 deficit only to have Mats Sundin restore Quebec's lead at 4:18 of the third period, 52 seconds after Rick Vaive had pulled Buffalo even. 
Despite having to settle for the tie, the Nordiques, who got two goals and an assist by Joe Sakic, improved their season record against Buffalo to 3-1-2, 
their best mark against any team. 
Red Wings 6, Jets 1 

Sergei Fedorov scored on the power play to trigger a five-goal third period that powered Detroit over Winnipeg. 
Fedorov broke a 1-1 tie just 26 seconds into the final period, slapping Bob Probert's pass past goalie Bob Essensa for his 27th goal. Dave Barr gave the Red Wings a two-goal margin 
1:19 later with his 15th goal, and Yves Racine added his sixth at 8:12. 
Steve Yzerman added his 41st goal at 9:04, and Johan Garpenlov finished the scoring with the Red Wings' fourth power-play goal of the game at 19:52. 
Sampras set to defend US Pro Indoor 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Pete Sampras began the defense of his title Tuesday night with a 6­2, 7-5 victory over Czechoslovakia's Milan Srejber in the second round of the U.S. Pro Indoor tennis tournament. 
Sampras dominated the first set, winning it from 4-2 on the fourth set point as Srejber served three double-faults in the eighth game. 
Srejber, the tallest player on the ATP Tour at 6-foot-8, tightened his play in the second set. He held his own in volleys and stayed with Sampras to 5­5. 
But the No. 2 seed, who is also the reigning U.S. Open champion, volleyed sharply to take a 6-5 lead, then broke Srejber's serve in the 12th game to close out the victory, doing so with a backhand passing shot down the line. 
In late matches Tuesday, Kevin Curren and Jim Grabb upset seeded opponents. 
Curren defeated fifth-seeded Jay Berger 6-1, 6-2. Curren closed out the first set with an ace, then lost two match points in the seventh game of the sec­ond set before booming another ace in the eighth game to move into the next round. 

Grabb beat No. 6 Jim Courier 6-2. 6-4. Grabb, a finalist in last year's Washington tournament, gained a 3-1 lead in the second set and won from 5-4 on an ace down the center. 
Both Berger and Courier had first-round byes. 
Earlier Tuesday, qualifiers Wayne Ferreira and Chuck Adams upset seeded opponents. 
Ferreira, from South Africa, ousted No. 8 Tim Mayotte 6-4. 6-2 and Adams stopped 10th­seeded D.errick Rostagno 7-5, 6­3. 
Ferreira, ranked 147th in the world, broke Mayotte for a 5-4 lead in. the opening set on a passing shot down the line, then held serve. Ferreira won the last four games in the sec­ond set to eliminate Mayotte, 
BRIDGET McGUIRES 
WED. FEB. 13, 1991 
8:00 pm -3:00 am 
SENIORS VALENTINE'S DAY PARTY 
SENIORS ONLY 
who has won this tournament 
twice and was runner-up twice. 
Rostagno, who earned $267,285 last year. is ranked 43rd in the world, 129 places higher than Adams, whose best effort last year was reaching the quarterfinals at Schenectady, N.Y., and earning $18,762. Adams has already assured himself of $11,285 by reaching the third round here. 
Ninth-seeded Petr Korda of Czechoslovakia also advanced to the third round with a 6-4, 6-3 win over Jaime Yzaga of Peru. Korda, a semifinalist last year, won the first set with a service break in the final game, then took the match by winning the last three games. 
Also posting victories Tuesday were Cristiano Caratti of Italy and MaliVai Washington. 
Caratti, who an upset winner over Ivan Lend! last week in Milan, Italy, defeated Jeff Tarango 7-5, 6-4. Washington, who played for the University of Michigan, defeated Alex Antonitsch of Austria 7-6 (7 -1) 4-6, 6-0. 
In other late matches, seeded players reaching the third round included Darren Cahill of Australia, Wally Masur of Australia and Gary Muller of 
...

South Africa. 
No. 11 Cahill defeated Thomas Hogstedt of Sweden 6­4, 6-2; Masur, the 13th seed, barely prevailed over Christo van Rensburg of South Africa, 4-6, 7-6 (7-1), 7-6 (7-5); and Muller, seeded 15th, defeated Renzo Furlan of Italy 6-7 (5-7). 6-3. 6-4. 

. ·. ,,· page 16 The Observer Wednesday, February 13, 1991 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­
' 
Raghib "Rocket" Ismail's pri­vate workout for NFL scouts

l; was postponed to Feb. 21 be­cause of his hectic schedule. a Notre Dame spokesman said Monday. 
Ismail, projected possibly as the No. 1 pick in the April21-22 draft, passed up the weeklong NFL scouting combine at the Hoosier Dome in Indianapolis but invited scouts to attend a workout for him on the Notre Dame campus on Tuesday. 
"He ran track over weekend. then went to Pittsburgh for a banquet and he's leaving tonight for Buffalo for another banquet," Notre Dame sports information director John Heisler said. 
"He decided he was kind of worn out and felt it would be better to postpone the work­out." 
Ismail, the Irish All-America and runner-up for the Heisman Trophy, will give up his senior year of college eligibility to en­ter the draft. He said he needs 30 credit-hours to graduate and 

Ismail postpones workout for scouts 
Off-court troubles continue to build for the Orangemen 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP)-A special investigator for the NCAA has questioned former Orangemen Matt Roe about al­leged wrongdoings at Syracuse University, a University of Maryland official and Roe's mother confirmed Tuesday. 


It is the first indication that college athletics' governing body has entered into the probe of the nationally-ranked Syracuse men's basketball pro­gram. 
The university began an in­ternal investigation last month after a series of articles in December by the Syracuse Post­Standard, which reported that players received merchandise, cut-rate use of cars and even cash gifts from boosters and 

\' that the program broke recruit­ing rules. The questioning of Roe by Hale McMenamin, one of the original NCAA investigators in­volved in the probe of the UNLV program 13 years ago, was conducted two weeks ago at the University of Maryland, where Roe transferred after the 1988­1989 season, Maryland athletic director Andy Geiger said. "The NCAA did go down and talk to Matt about Syracuse," 
Butler 
continued from page 20 
The Irish outrebounded 

\. Butler 43-27-24-12 in the sec­ond half-as Nowlin grabbed a game-high 12 boards, Knapp
! I 
added nine and Davis six. The rebounding advantage fueled an Irish fast break which con­stantly burned Butler. 
"We did a good job crashing 

'/ the boards and getting the ball out on the break, especially in the second half," Nowlin said. 
Notre Dame had been getting outrebounded lately, and Davis noted the fact that the Irish 

{ 
plans to return to Notre Dame in the offseason to complete work for his degree. 
"You would always like to believe that someone applying for a job would be willing to be interviewed and that's what this combine represents," said Dick Mansperger, director of college scouting for the Dallas Cowboys. "But, in his situation, Rocket has a legitimate on­campus commitment. 
"He's competing for the track team and he is also driving to­ward a degree. It would have hurt him to come here for three days and we don't want to do that. He has set us a workout for us on campus. That shows he has good will." 
Ismail ran an NCAA indoor season-best 6.07 seconds in the 55-meter dash on Friday. Earlier this month, he broke the Notre Dame record in that event set by former Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown, who is now with the Los Angeles Raiders. 
"Since he's agreed to work out there isn't going to be any problem," said Dick Haley, di­rector of player personnel for the Pittsburgh Steelers. "It's important that the teams get an accurate measurement of a player and how he does the various drills. It's easier when they do it here because the con­ditions are the same for every­one. But, I'm sure Rocket's workout will be well attended by NFL scouts." 
The 5-foot-10, 175-pounder from Wilkes-Barre, Pa., has gained an average of 15.3 yards every time he's touched the football, accumulating 4,187 all-purpose yards on receptions, punt and kickoff returns. He's scored 15 touchdowns -f~:mr receiving, five rushing, five on kickoff returns and one on a punt return. 
One of his top performances in 1990 came in Notre Dame's 29­20 victory over Miami when he rushed for 100 yards, returned a kickoff 94 yards for a touchdown and accumulated a career-high 268 all-purpose yards. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Advanced Conditioning Class will start Feb. 11 at 5:15 
p.m. Mondays and 6:15 a.m. Wednesdays and Fridays at the Loftus Sports Center. the class runs all three days from Feb. 11 through March 6. If interested, call 239-7890 to register before 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 12. 
•There Will Be a Meeting for all students interested in helping with promotions for the 1991 Bengal Bouts at 7 
p.m. ,today in the Boxing Room at the Joyce ACC. 
•The 
ND/SMC Sailing Club will have its first 1991 meeting at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Feb. 22 in Rm. 204 O'Shag. New members are welcome. 

•The 
Hapkido Club meets Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 


p.m. in Rm. 219, Rockne. Learn self-defense. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron x3504. 
•Sports Trivia Contest sponsored by WVFI starting next week -lots of great prizes: COs. Sportswear, haircuts, pizzas and much, much more. Only a few spots still available. Call Jay at x3546 with names and numbers of your 3 person teams. 
said Alexandra Roe. "What they asked him, he didn't say. He was pretty nervous about it, but McMenamin made him feel comfortable. He has nothing to feel guilty about." 
."Obviously, you know we're doing some · interviews," McMenamin told the newspa­per. 
Jim Marchiony, a spokesman for the NCAA, confirmed that McMenamin is a part-time member of the NCAA's en­forcement staff. 
"I can't confirm who he's talked to," Marchiony said. "But just because he's talked to someone about Syracuse doesn't mean an investigation is going on. We talk to a lot of different people to determine whether we're going to do an investigation." 
Marchiony said its common procedure for the NCAA to conduct inquiries before deter­mining whether a full-blown in­vestigation is needed. 
Syracuse spokesman Robert Hill declined to comment on whether the NCAA had now be­come involved in the investiga­tion. 
In other developments Tuesday, Hill said the university 
dominated inside in a manner not seen for a while. 
"We learned a lesson down at Tennessee," Davis said. "In the last few games, we haven't worked too hard on controlling the boards, and that is some­thing the coaches emphasized in practice. We can run on (MCC) teams, and in order to run, we need to rebound." 
Notre Dame is next in action Valentine's Day at Detroit. 
still had not received an official resignation from top booster Joseph Giannuzzi, the president of the Hardwood Club who was disassociated from the univer­sity as a result of its ongoing investigation. 
Giannuzzi was asked to resign Monday because "it was in the best interest of the university." 
Meanwhile, a top officer of the Hardwood Club said the or­ganization's directors would be reviewing their operation to en­sure members are aware of the copious regulations governing boosters' actions. 
"We've never done it before. I guess we never thought our program was having problems," said Dennis Cleary, the group's second vice president. "But after this, it's something we're going to discuss. We want to make sure everyone understands the rules so this never happens again." 
It was the first time in the. organization's 17-year history that an officer or member was ordered removed by the univer­sity, which also said Giannuzzi and his wife may no longer purchase preferred seating to athletic events. 
Syracuse did not specify its 
a 

THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER Joins wlh the Ob;e,wrin hoping for the quK:k and safe raum of our loved ones in the Persian Gulf. 
reasons fqr demanding Giannuzzi's ouster. However, Giannuzzi's name came up in a story published last week by the Post-Standard regarding the university's decision to place junior Dave Johnson on a year's probation for an "inappropriate" relationship he had with a 14-year-old girl two years ago when he was a 1 7­year-old freshman. 
The girl, now 16, said Johnson had sex with her dur­ing the summer of 1988 and into the spring of 1989 at Giannuzzi's home in Syracuse. She told university officials that Johnson and another player, redshirt sophomore Mike Hopkins, both lived at the Giannuzzi's during the summer of 1988, before starting classes at Syracuse. 
The investigation also re­sulted in the brief suspension last Friday of seven players, who were reinstated by the NCAA later the same day. 
The Post-Standard on Tuesday cited unidentified sources familiar with the uni­versity's internal investigation as saying the suspensions in­volved a variety of alleged in­fractions. 

-Guard Michael Edwards al­legedly failed to pay for about $500 in car repairs done by a local dealership. 
-Senior walk-on Chaundu Carey allegedly worked at head coach Jim Boeheim's summer basketball camp. 
-Johnson and Hopkins al­legedly lived rent-free prior to their freshman year at the Giannuzzis. The school's inves­tigation has shown that each player received room and board worth nearly $1,000. 
-Billy Owens, prior to his freshman year, allegedly im­properly participated in a pickup basketball game. 
-David Siock allegedly lived rent-free before his freshman year at Roe's apartment. Siock's mother has said the university determined her son should pay $275 to cover his housing costs. 
The specifics of the violations against LeRon Ellis were un­clear, although one unidentified source termed them among the least severe of the infractions, the newspaper said. 

lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
* Large Group Meeting DR. THOMAS V. MORRIS 
(Assoc. Prof. of Philosophy, Univ. of Notre Dame) On 'PASCAL on love and life of the Body' 
6:30 pm Friday , Feb. 15 ~ Keenan-Stanford Chapel 'I" 
Attention Past Transfer Students 
The applications for the 1991 Transfer Orientation Executive Committee are now available and may be picked up at the secretary's desk at Student Government from Barb. The deadline for the applications will be February 20th, after which we will contact each applicant and set an interview date and time. 
* *FEBRUARY 20th* * 


a & ... 3 sa o; £ ca as && cas a .& u sa z_uu
• 

Wednesday, February 13, 1991 The Observer page 17 



American ExpressAnnounces AGreat New Travel Program 
Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place you'd like with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you Card now while you're still in school than it may can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
CONTINENTAL
![you're already a Cardmember, there's no 1ll!ed to call. Information about your certificates u·ill be arri1'i11g soon 
Complele terms and condilk>ns of thts travel ofer will amve V.'Jth your certtbcates Cominemal A1tl1nes alone 15 responsiblt' for fulfill~m of th1s olfer Amt'ri<an Express ;assu~ no liability for Comi[}('mal Alflines' performance C 1991 Amtrican Express Travel Related ServiCes CompanJ Inc 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
The Irish increased a two-point advantage to four points on three occasions in the last thirty seconds that kept the Warriors out of striking distance. 
Ellery, Tim Singleton and Keith Tower hit two free throws each to seal the victory. As a team, Notre Dame hit 15-of-18 foul shots for the game. 
"The difference was that they made the free throws down the stretch," Marquette coach Kevin O'Neill said. "If they miss just one free throw, we've got a chance. We wanted to foul Singleton and Tower and we didn't have much of a choice with Ellery." 
The Warriors cut the lead to 47-46 with 6:37 left when the Irish went to the press. After an Irish basket, Singleton forced a quick turnover and Daimon Sweet converted that into a layup to give Notre Dame a five-point lead and some breathing room. After that, Marquette could get no closer than two. 
"They really weren't expect­ing it," Ellery said. "It was a time when they needed to score, so we did put it on them at a pretty bad time." 
Notre Dame turned in a big defensive effort against two of Marquette's big scorers. Trevor Powell had just six points, and Mark Anglavar was held score­less, more than 14 points below their combined season average. Freshman Jim Mcilvaine picked up some of the slack with 15 points to lead the Warriors. 

"The last two years, Powell has been a thorn in our side," Phelps said. "We put a lot of pressure on them. If you would have asked me who we were worried about, I would have said Anglavar and Powell." 
Notre Dame came out hot in the first half, taking a 23-10 lead in the first nine minutes. Bennett scored eight points in that stretch. 
But the Irish went cold mid­way through that half, and the Warriors played their way back into the game. They outscored the Irish 13-2 in a five-minute span that cut the lead to 25-23 with 5:15 left. Damon Key had six points in that Marquette run. 
Ellery stopped the Warrior spurt with a baseline jumper, and the Irish then led 34-27 at the half. 
Notre Dame stretched that lead to 41-29 and later led 47­39 with 9:35 remaining in the game. But the Warriors didn't quit, scoring seven straight points to pull within one. 
The free throws and the press then kept Marquette from hav­ing a chance in the closing sec­onds. 
Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot ofterritory without spending a lot of money And that's by getting the American Express<~> Card. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night. 
In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa­tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. . 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 

page 18 The Observer Wednesday~February' 13; 1991 
Irish wrestlers set to face struggling lllini 

i: I' 
Suns end Lakers' win streak 
Kevin Johnson's 35 points leads Phoenix to victory 
PHOENIX (AP) The Phoenix Suns ended the Los Angeles Lakers' 16-game win­ning streak Tuesday night, beating them 99-95 as Kevin Johnson scored 10 of his 35 points in the final 8:13 and Tom Chambers hit a decisive hook shot with 28 seconds left. 
Jeff Hornacek added 23 points for the Suns while Chambers finished with 18, giv­ing him 16,008 in his nine-year NBA career. 
The win was the first in the last three seasons for the Suns in which they scored under 100 points, breaking an 0-21 dry spell. 
Sam Perkins paced Los Angeles with 26 points. James Worthy had 21 and Magic Johnson 14 points and 15 as­

I' sists for the Lakers, who last
I\ 
lost 96-88 at Seattle on Jan. 8. 
Perkins' turnaround jumper tied the game for the 10th time, 95-95 with 36 seconds remain­ing. Chambers then sank a 10­foot, left-handed hook to put Phoenix ahead to stay. 
Dan Majerle's two free throws with 0.4 seconds completed the scoring. 
Magic 129, Nuggets 118 
Scott Skiles scored 33 points while Jerry Reynolds and Otis Smith had 26 each as Orlando defeated Denver for the first 


! I Women 
I 
\ continued from page 20 I 
All things considered, Welsh\ has good reason to be pleased.

\ 
In the first four seasons of 

~ women's swimming, coach Dennis Stark led the team to a 31-14 record, which included two consecutive North Star conference titles. 
The program's early success has continued under Welsh, as

:II 
the Irish have won their third straight North Star title, two MCC titles and one Eastern Intercollegiate Championship. Additionally, Becky Wood, who holds university records in the 100 and 200 breaststroke and swam breaststroke for the uni­versity record 200 and 400 medley-relay team, became the first Notre Dame woman to qualify for the NCAA champi­onships. 
Wood's NCAA qualification was soon followed by Tanya Williams, who holds numerous university records ( 1 000 and 1650 freestyle, 200 backstroke, 200 butterfly, 200 and 400 in­dividual medley, 200 and 400 medley relay, 800 free relay). Williams is also the only Irish women's swimmer with a Rolfs pool record-a time of 2:05.08 in the 200 butterfly. 
"Notre Dame is highly com­petitive in its region and con­ference," noted Wood. "We are four-game winning streak in the Magic's two-year history. 

Skiles, who had an NBA record 30 assists in his last game against the Nuggets on Dec. 30, scored 12 points in the fourth quarter, while Reynolds had 14. Denver took a 92-87 lead into the final period. 
The Nuggets, who got 35 points from Chris Jackson, led 110-106 on a hook shot by Joe Wolf with 6:18 remaining, but the Magic outscored Denver 23­12 the rest of the way. 
Hornets 100, Mavericks 92 
Johnny Newman scored 21 points and Charlotte used an 11-2 run at the beginning of the second half to beat Dallas, snapping a four-game losing streak. 
Mike Gminski had 18 points and 14 rebounds as the Hornets beat the Mavericks for only the second time in eight games. 
Dallas had a two-game win­ning streak broken despite 22 points from Rolando Blackman and 21 from backcourt team­mate Derek Harper. 
Trailing 50-46 at halftime after Blackman sank a 35-foot shot at the buzzer, Charlotte got four quick points from Gminski to tie the game at 50-50 and went 
on the verge of becoming com­petitive in the nation. A top swimmer like Tanya Williams is already competitive in the na­tion, as are many of our other swimmers. Our competitiveness has increased significantly in both the conference and the na­tion, as has Notre Dame's overall competitiveness." 
Welsh, meanwhile, has no il­lusions about the reasons for the success of his program. 
"We have a program defini­tion-the purpose of swimming at Notre Dame is the achieve­ment of athletic excellence with self-discipline and love for one another. Success is achieved in all three areas, and is supple­mented with the fact that we view success as including both academics and athletics. We want our swimmers to have a 
3.0 gpa, and we had a 3.19 team gpa this fall. 
"Athletic excellence is made up of the individual's best per­formance, ideally in every event. This leads to a good won­lost record and championships. Everything this team does is based on individuals. But self­discipline is the key to achieving personal and team success. Do you get up on time for practice? Do you work hard when nobody is watching? Great athletes have great fundamentals, and that takes self-discipline." 
Muffet McGraw has instilled a similar conception of success in her women's basketball players. 
on to lead 69-63 in the third quarter. 
Knicks 114, Pacers 110 
Patrick Ewing had 29 points and Kiki Vandeweghe broke a tie by scoring New York's final four points in the last 20 sec­onds at Indiana. 
Vandeweghe scored 21 points while Chuck Person led the Pacers with 24 and Micheal Williams .had 20, including two free throws with 1:08 left that gave Indiana a 110-109lead. 
Ewing converted one of two free throws to tie it before Reggie Miller was called for an offensive foul. The turnover re­sulted in an uncontested layup by Vandeweghe with 20 seconds left. 
Detlef Schrempf was stripped of the ball by Ewing with 15 seconds remaining and Vandeweghe was fouled with 
7.3 seconds to go. He made both attempts, giving the Knicks their winning margin. 
Cavaliers 94, Heat 78 
Brad Daugherty had 25 points and 15 rebounds, and Cleveland overcame 19 first­half turnovers and snapped a three-game losing streak by defeating Miami. 
The Cavaliers opened the sec­ond half with a 10-2 run that featured two baskets and two 
In fact, one-hundred percent of Notre Dame women's basketball players have received their degrees-and the list of alumnae reads like a 'Who's Who in Professional America.' 
"Win-loss success is sec­ondary to reaching your poten­tial. However, if you reach your potential you will probably win a lot of games," said McGraw. "People change a lot from freshman to senior year, and although a coach can help in that transformation, it is up to the individual person to reach their potential. Success for the team is measured in the same way. Did we reach our potential as a group? Last year we did-we did not reach our goal of making the NCAA tournament, but we played well and had a lot of fun." 
"I feel that success is setting your sights on something and doing your best to achieve that," explained senior forward Krissi Davis. "If you don't hap­pen to achieve that goal, it doesn't mean that you are a failure. If you have done or tried to do your best, then you did succeed in some way. I be­lieve that the only time you are truly a failure is when you give up and quit. As long as you keep trying, you can never fail." 
McGraw's formula has shown itself to be a formula for con­tinued success. 
In its first three years of competition (1977 -80), coach 
A 

Touch a life. Give to the United Way. 
By RICHARD MATHURIN Sports Writer 
The Irish Wrestling team will utter a collective sigh of relief when they face Illinois (2-10) at the JACC tonight at 
7:30. After all, the Irish have faced #7 Nebraska and #1 Iowa in their previous two matches. The Illini and their 10-match losing streak must look very palatable to the Irish. 
The Illini started the season with two victories, but have not recorded one since. That does not infer that they should be taken lightly, though. Their roster is full of talented wrestlers including the #1-ranked heavyweight in the nation, John Llewellyn and talented freshman Ken Gerdes (134 lbs.). 
"It's difficult to tell how good they are because we haven't seen them since early in the year. They're a young team like us, but they do have the best heavyweight in the nation in John Llewellyn," said Irish coach Fran McCann. 
assists by Daugherty, and took a 51-41 lead with 6:39 left in the third period. They extended the margin to 20 points midway through the fourth period as 
Sharon Petro led the Notre Dame to a 49-20 record, win­ning the Indiana AIAW Small College North District title (1977-78) and the Indiana AIAW Division III state cham­pionship (1978-79). 
Mary DiStanislao coached the Irish from 1980-87, during which time her teams went 115-79, including two North Star conference titles and a third-place finish in the NIT (1985-86). 
In the years since the 1987­88 season, the first at Notre Dame for Muffet McGraw, the Irish have gone 64-25, twice won the MCC regular and post­season title, and placed seventh in the NIT (1988-89). This season, McGraw's squad has been on a nationwide rampage, going 16-4 (11-0 in the MCC), beating one Top Twenty team (#11 Louisiana Tech) and three Top Twenty vote-getters-in 
The Irish will go into the match shorthanded, as starter Chris Jensen (118 lbs.) will miss the match due to a shoulder injury. His place will be taken by Dave Iacoponi, who normally wrestles at the 126 lb. class. 
"It's a disadvantage. I thought Chris might have an edge, but with Dave's lack of experience, they've got to have the advantage," said McCann. 
McCann feels that Marcus Gowens (126 lbs.), who has a record of 19-6, and Jamie Boyd (142 lbs.}, who is even up at 11-11, give the Irish the best shots at victory. Also, co­captain Mark Gerardi (167 lbs). who's record is a sparkling 16-5, must be considered a favorite over the Illini's Keith Bollman, who has recorded only 1 victory in 13 matches. 
"I think the 50 and 58 (150 and 158 lbs) classes will be critical. We've lost a lot of matches in those classes be­cause we've wrestled 6 minutes instead of the full 7 minutes," said McCann. 
Larry Nance had 10 of his 20 points in the quarter. 
Sherm.an Douglas, averaging 
25.5 in his last four games, led Miami with 29 points. 
addition to being ranked as high as 19th in USA Today and 20th in the AP poll. 
"Since my freshman year, we have become more competitive throughout the nation," noted Davis. "This schedule has been probably the toughest we have played. We played Stanford early in December and at the time they were ranked #1. They are also defending national champions. We also beat DePaul, which was the first time in the four years I have been at Notre Dame. And DePaul went to the NCAA tour­nament last year. I definitely feel that our competitiveness has increased since my fresh­man year." 
Aside from the above-men­tioned games, last weekend's Irish road meeting with #5 Tennessee was a hotly con­tested, 88-71 Notre Dame loss. 

I . 
r ~ 1 



The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32Walesa 62 Roman
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
33 Notion goddess of 
Seminar, "Recent Research Trends in Fiber Reinforced 1 Whips 
harmony
34Jump

Composites," Dr. P. Sriram, Georgia Institute of Technol­& Taj Mahal site 
&5 Cyclotron item 
36 Spiral

ogy, Atlanta. Room 356, Fitzpatrick hall of Engineering. 10 Inflection 
&&Icelandic tales 
39~~tee

Sponsored by Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 14 Actress-singer 
&7 Sell
40 Bypasses
Blakley 68 Grand backer 

42 "Vive le -!"

7:00p.m. Film, "You Only Live Once." Annenberg Audi­15 Lager, e.g. 
69 Dry run
43 Choice

torium, Snite Museum. 1& "-Rhythm" 
70 Kind of plasm 
45 Not fooled by 

11 Music hall 71 Alleviates
46 Church area

8:00 p.m. Presentation. Barry Hannah, writer, Univer­18 Marian 
Anderson, e.g. 47 Snake sound 

sity of Mississippi. Washington Hall. Sponsored by 
20 Looking glass 49 Brasstown DOWN
Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Bald, 4 Down's highest pt. 1 Out of 22Abundant 
23 Sea bird 
9:00p.m. Film, "Window Water Baby." Annenbcrg Au­
50 Youth 2 Battle scene: 24Composer
ditorium, Snite Museum. 
May 10, 1796
Edvard~~ 51 Chap 3 Corker 
53 Swiss warble 

2&Joins
12:05 p.m. Thursday, Travel Videos at Noon Series, 4 Fourth state to 
55 Altar on high

28 "In Spain,They 
"Great Smokies and Blue Ridge Parkway," ETS Theater, ratify the 
Say-56 Mets or Jets

Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Educa­Constitution:
31 Memo abbr. 58 Mandarin, e.g. 
Jan.2, 1788
tional Media. 
5 Mister, in Lima 6 Basic principle 
4:00 p.m. Lecture, "Discovering the Christian Voca-ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 State song of 4 I ·
fon in Pol"fI Ics, " Claud"10 0 rrego Larram, President to the 
Down Chilean Student Federation, Santiago, Chile. Room 101, 
I S AM

OR 
CAS DA 
sc 

8 Bolognese 

R S E E L S E 
s u 

painter
Law School. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute with the Cen-
STOKE CATAMARAN 
9 Dexterous 10 Aunt, in Avila 29 Luminary 44 Sesame 57 Arabian port 
ter for Civil and Human Rights and Student Government. · 
MOKIWI•Bg.SHEMO 
11 Leader of first 30 Land group east 46 Capital of 4 59 Island off 
-SN E "E:' R C 0 X WE L L 
English of 4 Down Down Sumatra
SINGULAR NIA
MENU 
settlement of 35~~shame 4&Veer 60 Auction call 
'A'DFIE M IIC R 0
0 

4Down (abash) 51 Phase &1 Completes 12-Dame 37 Cherokee-, 52 Wash away &3 Feline 
~~ S T Y E A A S T A I L 
DATUM STYNE.BEE 
13 Certain collars state flower of 4 54 Obliterate 64 Pother
SOL ADAPTING 

19 Freshens Down
PACKRATIORION-
Notre Dame 

21 Garand, e.g. 38 Mortgage
EMu.'AfJi7E'C~ IBIS 
25Givean-40 Explorer of 4 Answers to any three clues in this 
CUTTYSARK A L 
ON 
E 

(look after) Down, c. 1540 puzzle are available by touch-tone 
YT 
E0 S EEl E A I E L E

Shrimp Poppers 

271, in Bonn 41 Dance phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
N

SERE SAND A A 
so 

28 Location composition minute).
Baked Scrod Cod 
Stuffed Bread Fettucini Alfredo 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

11-\1'3 lOOKS ll~ WE.\1. Qf 
COO A REAL JOB T\-1£ Z\PP£R'S t:oR ST\lP't.N00\)5 GO\~ 
MAN ! ST\JCK If 
WtR:'IC:l~ 
S"Tm\1SAA tiAn:N/Nf to\£.' 

The Secret Elephant Aerial Grounds 






----------~---­
I'1 i 
II 
ll \ ( 
'H 
ll 
ll 
\ 
) 
! I 
i I.
I . 
! ? 
!!
l.~ 
I, 
\'> 
~\ 
11 
~~ 
\\ 
\' 
\ 
\i
I 
r 
( 
\~( 
} ' 
\ 
I 
l· 
I\ 
II 
~ '· ~ :. 
I' 
'·! 
Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, February 13, 1991 
Notre Dame women get back on track with 94-62 win 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 

A 32-point victory is a sure cure for what ails you. 
The Notre Dame wom~n 's basketball shook off any linger­ing effects from Saturday's loss to Tennessee late in the first half of last night's game against Butler. The Irish held the Bulldogs without a field goal for almost seven minutes to break open a close game and eventually cruise to a 94-62 win. 
The victory extended Notre Dame's (17-4, 12-0) MCC win streak to 36 games, while Butler (16-6, 6-5) lost its fourth straight conference road game. 
Five players scored in double figures for the Irish. Leading the way was Karen Robinson with 22 points on 10-of-12 shooting. Margaret Nowlin and Kristin Knapp chipped in 16 apiece, Sara Liebscher added 15 and Krissi Davis 14. Coquese Washington scored only seven points, but her 12 assists were a season-high. 
Notre Dame took advantage of defensive mismatches un­derneath all night. The Irish post players combined for 48 points. With Nowlin arid Davis on the blocks and Knapp hitting the outside jumper, Butler-especially with starting center Julie VonDielingen in foul trouble-was unable to match up with the taller Irish. 
"We had a real mismatch on the blocks," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said, "and in the sec­ond half, the guards picked up their scoring." 
The MCC's leading scor-er, VonDielingen led Butler with 22 points, but no other Bulldog was in double figures. Leslie Miller was next on the stat sheet with only nine points. 
When VonDielingen picked up her third foul with 2:50 left in the first half, no Butler player picked up the slack, and Notre Dame took advantage, pushing its lead from four to nine before halftime, 37-28. 
Another factor was the 2-3 zone Notre Dame switched to midway through the first half. Butler was unprepared for the zone, and it showed, as the Bulldogs committed 11 turnovers and shot only 40 per­cent after the switch. 
"(The zone) surprised our of­fense in that we hadn't seen Notre Dame use the zone against any conference school," Butler coach Paulette Stein said. "Their zone was very ef­fective, especially up top. We couldn't penetrate any gaps and were unable to get any outside shots either." 
Notre Dame went on an 11-3 run to start the second half to extend its halftime lead to 48­31 with 16:11 remaining. Butler quickly cut the lead back down to 11, but the Irish responded with six straight points to thwart the Bulldogs' first run. 
Butler's final chance came at the 9:46 mark. A VonDielingen free throw cut the margin to 12, 59-47, but the Irish pounded the ball inside to Nowlin, and the junior responded with three straight baskets to put Notre Dame back up 65-47 at the eight-minute mark. The Bulldogs never threatened again. 
see BUTLER I page16 

Irish men's basketball wins a "barn burner'', 63-62 
Free throws and defense lead NO over Marquette 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 

MILWAUKEE-Notre Dame decided its own destiny against Marquette on Tuesday night. 
The Irish hit six consecutive free throws down the stretch to hold off a late Warrior rally for a 63-62 victory before 14,933 fans at the Bradley Center. 
Those free throws, coupled with a trapping press that gave Marquette headaches in the last five minutes, helped the Irish improve to 10-14. The Warriors dropped to 8-15: 
Elmer Bennett led the Irish with 18 points, while Kevin Ellery tossed in 14. Joe Ross got his first start of the season and responded with six points and two rebounds in 18 quality minutes. 
"It's always a barnburner," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said of the rivalry. "I thought we played with a lot of confidence tonight." 
The biggest key was Notre Dame's poise at the foul line. 
see HOOPS I page 17 

Baseball begins with high hopes 
Last season, the Notre Dame baseball team finished with a best-ever 46-12 record, the fourth-best ledger of any team in Division I baseball. 
But they weren't invited to the NCAA tournament. 
This caused followers of col­lege baseball to raise their eyebrows, scratch their chins and wonder if the decision to exclude Notre Dame from the tournament was a fair one. 
The snubbing of the Irish in last year's tournament also has made collegiate baseball critics very interested in Notre Dame this season, so much so that Baseball America magazine has ranked the Irish 15th in its preseason poll. 
Fifteenth. 

"There's no question that there has been more media in­terest in Notre Dame base­ball-at least in the presea­son-than at any other year than the five years I've been here," said Kevin Guilfoile, who handles baseball for Notre Dame's Sports Information. "This has been the most antici-

Scott Brutocao 
Irish Items 
pated season ever, I would say." 
Such hype has materialized into a television talk show for baseball coach Pat Murphy, similar to the show that Irish basketball coach Digger Phelps currently hosts. Murphy's pro­gram will be shown on channel 46, WHME, and in select re­gions of the country by Sports Channel. Other attention Murphy has received has been "calls for clinics, special pro­jects and books." 
"I just keep telling our team to block out intruders and keep focused," said Murphy. "The press hype we've received...has been real distracting for our preparation. I've told the guys that we're ranked 278th-that's the Murphy poll. We'll stay there until we beat somebody." 
Not everyone sees Notre Dame's place in the polls in quite that light. 
In Collegiate Baseball, an­other prominent amateur baseball magazine, the Irish are ranked 34th. Right in front of them is Arizona, which was 26-34 last year. 
The difference between Notre Dame and Arizona, however, which many would point out, is that Arizona plays a much tougher schedule. No longer will that be the case. In this upcoming season, the baseball team will play seven of Collegiate Baseball's "Fabulous 40" and five of Baseball America's Top 25. 
And during the first half of the season the Irish play per­haps the most demanding 
see BASEBALL I page14 
Elmer Bennett and threes help Notre Dame to victory in Milwaukee 
MILWAUKEE-Notre Dame's good luck seems to come in threes. 
Notre Dame had a game decided by one point for the third time this season, and Elmer Bennett's three-point shooting buoyed the Irish when they started to sag. 
Add in three Notre Dame trips to the foul line during the last 34 Dave Dieteman 


seconds-when the Irish shot a perfect six-for-six-and the fact that last Sports Writer night's 63-62 win was Notre Dame's third consecutive victory on the road, as well as the third straight win over the Warriors. 
More important, remember that Bennett, who had 18 points last night, led Notre Dame in scoring for the third time since the preseason NIT. And that Bennett dished out three assists. 
"I think that this was a great road win for us," admitted Bennett, who was 2-3 from· long-range, all in the first half. "Coming into the game, we felt that their guards could not hold us defensively, so we tried to penetrate for a layup and kicked it back out for an open shot if we had to." 
In the game's early going, the .Irish led 6-2. Marquette rattled back, however, to tie the game at six. 11 seconds later, Kevin Ellery nailed a three-pointer from the left corner, and Bennett hit his first three of the night to start Notre Dame rolling. 
After Tim Singleton's lay-in, Bennett canned a three-pointer from the top of the circle, as the Irish lead swelled to 11 points. 
Bennett followed with an assist, a 15-foot bank shot, a 15-foot jumper, a pair of free throws, and a missed three-pointer at the first-half buzzer-for an even dozen points. 
Although he had been sizzling from all ranges in the pre-game warmups and the first half, Bennett cooled down in the second half, scoring only six points. Nonetheless, his performance was 
see BENNETT I page 14 

Women's swimming and hoops become powers 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
WOMEN 

Editor's Note: This is the sec­
IN ond of a four-part series on 
SPORTS

women ssports at Notre Dame. 
Academic year 1977-78 could be considered a good year for Notre Dame athletics. Dan Devine led the football team to the national championship, Digger Phelps coached the men's basketball team to a fourth-place finish in the NCAA Tournament, the men's fencing team went 18-0, and Sharon Petro was the first coach of the just-gone-varsity women's bas­ketball team. 
Now, approximately 12 years later, Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw has the women's bas­ketball team on a steady course toward national prominence. 
Coach Tim Welsh has the Irish women's swimming team on the verge of realizing the very same aspiration. 
In both cases, the current sit­uation-teams on the brink of unqualified success at the high­est levels-is the result of much dedication, planning and pa­tience, not only on the part of the respective coaches, but also of the athletes and administra­tion. 
Welsh, who has been coach­ing the Notre Dame women since the 1985-86 season, is appreciative of the position in which he finds himself and his team. 
"I have a one-hundred per­cent positive relationship with women's athletics," said Welsh. "Women's sports are exciting, growing progressively and fully supported by the university-we're delighted with the situation." 
see WOMEN I page 18 







