

VOL. XXIV NO. 30 FRIDAY , OCTOBER 4, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ~ 

Haitian soldiers reportedly killed at least 150 civilians 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) secretary Marlin Fitzwater said dents indiscriminately, the radio were concerned by a comment children in Port-au-Prince, -Random attacks by soldiers unequivocably that the coup station said. Some residents made Wednesday by President according to a supervisor, have left at least 150 dead and "will not succeed." were forced to dig holes to bury Bush that left open the possibil­Milius Lubrun. He said five 300 wounded in Haiti this week, Nations supporting the return people on the spot, the report ity of intervention by "a multi­other youths from the home according to reports Thursday. of Aristide. a leftist priest said. national force of some sort" were shot and wounded Tues­A radio station said 30 to 40 inaugurated Feb. 7, have thus There was no independent under the aegis of the Organi­day when they went to search people were massacred in one far relied on economic and confirmation of the report, but zation of American States. for their friend. teeming slum, apparently be­diplomatic sanctions to pres­hospital officials spoke of 150 At a meeting in Washington, Aristide, a 38-year-old Roman cause its residents supported sure the Haitian army. dead and more than 300 the OAS agreed Thursday to Catholic priest, founded the the deposed president. But in Caracas, Venezuela's wounded since the coup began. impose sanctions on Haiti, one orphanage in 1986, and it was 
Most of the attacks reportedly defense minister said the army The military has long been an of the world's poorest nations, if one of his most prized occurred from Monday, when was on alert in preparation for agent of repression in the im­democratic rule is not imme­achievements. It was thought President Jean-Bertrand a multinational military opera­poverished Caribbean nation. diately restored. It said it would the attacks might have been in­Aristide was ousted by rebel tion in case diplomatic efforts to Fewer soldiers seemed to be send a delegation to Haiti to tended to carry a symbolic soldiers, to Wednesday. Tension restore democracy in Haiti fail. on the streets of this capital city demand Aristide's restoration. message for Aristide. appeared to have eased The Pentagon says it has of 1 million Thursday, but an "Before coming, the OAS del­On Thursday wounded con­somewhat Thursday, and more forces in place to send troops to apparently nervous military egation must make clear tinued to arrive at the capital's people were venturing into the evacuate Americans from Haiti, issued an order banning street whether multinational armed main hospital. streets. but spokesmen said Thursday demonstrations. force is envisioned. If it is, they One woman, wounded in both 
Haitian politicians meanwhile there appeared to be little Three days after the coup that will have trouble finding people legs, was being treated on the said they welcome international chance of this happening. exiled Aristide, there still to talk to," said Marc Bazin, a floor of the waiting room. pressure on the army to restore Radio Lumiere, a Protestant­appeared to be no government runner-up in last year's presi­Emergency room officials, Aristide, Haiti's first freely run station, said an army­in place. dential elections. speaking on condition of elected president, to power. But sponsored massacre occurred Brig. Gen. Raoul Cedras, the Sen. Serge Gilles, a socialist, anonymity, said they were most said they opposed any Wednesday afternoon in a army's provisional commander­also said armed intervention turning away all but the most military intervention. shantytown in the western part in-chief, said Wednesday that should be ruled out. Both Gilles serious cases because of over­
Aristide told reporters in of Port-au-Prince, the capital. military leaders do not seek and Bazin, a conservative, said crowding. Washington he believed pres­Security forces who picked up power. He appeared to be Aristide should be permitted to The emergency room officials sure from the United States and the body of a dead soldier in the pushing for parliament to keep return, however. said that since Sunday night, its allies will save his country slum returned later with Aristide out of office and hold Soldiers on Monday shot a 17-324 wounded people had been from ..a small gang trying to kill reinforcements and went new elections. year-old youth to death outside treated. They said at least 150 democracy." White House press house-to-house shooting resi-Political leaders said they Aristide's shelter for homeless were killed. 
O'Brien discusses Native Americans 
By KATHY MASSA 500 poverty-stricken Americans. In spite of the First News Writer reservations throughout the Amendment, it was not until United States. 1924 that Indians could legally 
The Europeans, according to practice their religion.
In spite of losing their land 

O'Brien. brought to the new In 1903, a certain tribe was
and facing obstacles to their re­

world the idea of the ownership told that their land would not
ligion throughout the American 

of land, a concept foreign to the be taken form them if three­
history, Native Americans 

Native Americans. O'Brien said quarters of the male Native
maintain their heritage and 

that, .. the Spanish and the Americans voted against a take­
dignity, Professor Sharon 

Portuguese believed the Pope to over. Of course, three-quarters
O'Brien said at a fireside chat 

be God's representative on did vote against such a
Thursday. 

earth; thus, he had the power to measure. Regardless of the
O'Brien spoke about Native 

divide God's earth." vote, the government ..took it
Americans during a lecture on 

According to O'Brien, religion (the land) anyway and did not
"The Rights of Indigenous 

is inextricably linked to the even pay for it," said O'Brien.
Peoples." 

Native American way of life. Even in the last decade; some
President Andrew Jackson 

She emphasized the importance entrepreneurs in California
implemented a massive evacua­

the Native American's original wanted to build a 5-mile road
tion of Native Americans from 

homeland. Sacred ground, she through sacred tribal grounds,
their tribal lands, herding them 

said, is a critical component of O'Brien said. The tribes in­
into Oklahoma, O'Brien said. 

worship practices. volved appealed to the Supreme
Over 4,000 Indians were buried 

When the settlers began to Court on the grounds that the
on this infamous Trail of Tears. 

move west, they invaded the re­
Today, two-hundred individual see O'BRIEN I page 3 
ligious lands of the Native
Indian cultures exist on over 


. :.;; 
,Saint Mazy's coittg~ t991' · 


·Senior Pither/Daughter.Weekend. Schedule of Events 
trigay 

. 6:30p.m ... ~ p.m. Hot and cold hors d'ouvres Reception, Stapleton Lounge. 8 p.m. Bob Berky +-"One of the greatest mim~ in the · ~orld/' O'LaughUn Au9itoriutn.. %>, · . · . · ·· 
S5lturd3Y , . 8 a.m-..12 p.m. Golf tournament, Notre Dame Goll Course.­·10:30 a.m. Workshop-PatrickWhite, ;Associate Deaitof 
Facultyt."I~telh.:~als in th;. Real W9rld: Thin.ki.P:~-~~~-­Feeling After Safnt Marys, Haa&arParlor•:· · ·, ' ·" ..· 

page 2 Friday, October 4, 1991
The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 

"Mac Attack" keeps students laughing?? 
Question: What do the Notre Dame basketball program and any feminine hygiene manufacturer have in common? 
Answer: Downright goofy advertising. 

This  week,  the  NO  
basketball  program  Monica Yant  
unleashed  a  massive,  News Editor  

er... thunderous aa-------­campaign designed to attract student ticket buyers. To say nothing more about the campaign is to say it is most definitely different. 
And funny. And...uh...embarrassing. Dubbing the Joyce Athletic and Convocation 
Center a "thunderdome" is a bit steep. Remember the movie, "Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome?" Remember the thunderdome? Remember the ACC? 
Thought so. 

Granted, the ad is right when it says, "Two teams enter, one team leaves." That's obvious. But why are they leaving? 
It could be the winning team, heading off to another post-game victory soiree. Or it could be the loser, being mercilessly swept off the floor by a group of taller, faster and better looking players. . 
Which team is Notre Dame? 

Putting the arena and the team aside, there's the ad hyping up NO's new coach John MacLeod. To say nothing more about this ad would be to say that it takes a good man's name, thrashes it around in the mud, thrashes it around some more, then leaves it to die and be carried away by famished buzzards hovering over the greater Michiana area. 
The ad is funny. Sports Information and the local advertising agency who worked on the campaign admit that they wanted to try a humorous approach. "It's a new era for us," said Sports Marketing Manager Bill Scholl, "we wanted to get attention." 
Attention maybe. Humiliation more likely. 
Most students caught on to the "Saturday Night Live" theme of the MacLeod ad. Just as the Copy Machine character pokes fun of co­workers names, the ad takes jabs at MacLeod.. 
The Copy Machine guy is funny, however. This ad is just plain stupid. 
It should have stopped after calling the new Irish coach "Big John," or "The J. Man." It didn't. 
Instead, it goes on to call MacLeod "Macky Wacky," "Mac the Knife," and "The Cloud Man." He's more than a coach, he's "Our Master." 
And if you ever wondered about his sex life, the ad says he's "Hotter Than a Radiator." 
They may have gone overboard. Ticket sales have been slow as usual, according to the Ticket Office. In fact, the office doesn't anticipate a surge in sales at all. 
Students will buy tickets if they want to regardless of the ads. All the campaign has done is further convince the student body that someone in the administration is smoking something pretty powerful...and give students a good laugh at the administration's expense. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
.. . : :.·-·>·::··.. 
:.:-.-. :-· : ... 
.·.·· ·:.-.· ·:·.-_:_:_: 

\1 .r ; ~'"" ~ •n _ .,.,_._ ~>Rain f:--.J !ftllt!'l1t.. Ice ~ plcKJdy
............... ,.. ·········.·.···.············~·····okt·atm..........• •·.·.·...f•. ..~....·••·.®·.·(0···.H ..• .. .. .. .. ml ~u. ~~...~~·-·~..·· -Q ~y .
.. on·.··,totl·····o···.· •.•. i.···. A.·.· ·•.·.·.··.··.u····.·····.·.re,.·.·•.·
....•...•.•• t••l······ff··· ...• t.• ... L/.. ffig.·.·.·•··-.·.h·········.·.···.:..·.·re············.=·•·.•.···· ···•.·..··.··.;.· ..·•·.··.··· ·.·... 
· ·........;..:..;•. ·. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Nobel Prize for literature awarded 
• STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Nadine Gordimer, whose searing portrayals of human relationships in the racial maelstrom of South Africa were denounced as unpatriotic by her own government, won the 1991 Nobel Prize in literature on Thursday. She was the first woman in 25 years to win the award. The Swedish Academy. which awarded the prize. said Gordimer's novels and stories, combining literary artistry and a strong anti-apartheid message, have been "of very great benefit to humanity." The prize is worth about $1 million. 
Gorbachev sells book on failed coup 
• NEW YORK -Mikhail Gorbachev has struck a lucrative deal with an American publisher to recall in · his own words the events· surrounding the recent ill-fated coup in the Soviet Union. HarperCollins made the deal with Gorbachev and plans to · translate a 74-page · manuscript, print it, bind it and ship it to bookstores by the end of October. Eddie Bell, the chief executive of HarperCollins in London, flew to Moscow Friday and returned with the manuscript of "The August Coup." Publishers are now competing with each other to strike a deal with Boris Yeltsin, whose resistance to the coup was credited with bringing about its downfall. 
NATIONAL 

Breast-feeding myth dispelled 
• BOSTON -A study today contradicts the centuries­old folk wisdom that babies whose mothers take a drink just before breast-feeding consume more milk. Scientists 
Of INTEREST 
A 70 percent chance of showers today. Highs in the 60s. Mostly cloudy and cooler Saturday. 
EMPERATURES: 

found that alcohol had the exact opposite effect. For generations, mothers have been told that a drink before nursing makes their babies feed better. According to lore, this improves the flow and production of milk and relaxes mother and child. But when researchers tested that theory on 12 nursing mothers, they found babies consumed 23 percent less milk. The researchers also found that milk produced by women who had recently had a drink smelled and tasted of alcohol. 
Women measured for new clothes 
• CHAMPAIGN, Ill.-Experts around the country are sizing up the shape of things to come. measuring as many as 10,000 women with rulers and ribbons in an effort to develop better-fitting clothes for the 55-and-up set. "Just because they are older does not mean they are larger. Other things change, like muscle tone and bone structure," said Ellen Goldsberry of the University of Arizona. "But the clothing industry has absolutely no data about their figures." More than 17 million American women are 55 and up. Many would be willing to pay a little more for the perfect fit, Goldsberry said Wednesday. 
States to deter AIDS spreading 
• WASHINGTON -The House and Senate approved a compromise Thursday that requires states to adopt federal guidelines for deterring the spread of the AIDS virus by doctors and other health professionals. The compromise rejects a plan passed earlier by the Senate that would have set prison sentences for any AIDS­infected doctor, dentist or nurse who performs surgery or other "invasive procedures" without disclosing the ailment. 

• A meeting for seniors interested in the Xaverian Brothers Associate Program in Bolivia will be held Sun­day, October 6, at 12 p.m. in room 120, Keenan Hall. 
MARKET UPDATE 
"Jo. 
Atlanta Berlin · Boston 

• Chicago · ·. Dallas-Ft.Worth 
Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid 
Paris Philadelphia 
'Rome St. Louis San Francisco Seattle South Bend Tokyo 

Pt. ...... .
.cloudy>·.· 
Y<<> > t,J-=,--------J 

H L 
84 73 82 62 68 45 68 59 72 58 89 67 82 53 75 59 90 76 88 64 78 60 63 57 90 70 82 54 89 81 64 55 88 63 78 64 68 43 80 64 84 64 79 62 88 54 67 48 71 56 79 68 
78 67 

• Of Interests are for free, one time events of general interest. The deadline is 1 p.m. the day before the event. NO EXCEPTIONS!! 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1931: The comic strip "Dick Tracy," created by Chester Gould, made its debut. 

• 
In 1957: The television series "Leave It to Beaver" premiered on CBS. 

• 
In 1957: The Space Age began as the Soviet Union, to the dismay of the United States, launched into orbit Sputnik, the first manmade satellite. 

• 
In 1976: Agriculture Secretary Earl Butz resigned in the wake of a controversy over a joke he had made about blacks. 


......L--._~·.:-<·.;"'l'•'7"1,......,.......,..,...,,........~.........---.--......-.....-..--.............-.-~....................~_J 

Friday, October 4,1991 The Observer Page 3 

Special to The Observer Brian Miller, a 1966 Notre Dame alumnus, will speak on 
Three talks on Mary, the "The Miracle of the Sun at Mother of God, will take place Fatima." Rebecca Moody, a Monday, October 7, at 7 p.m. in junior at Clay High School, will the library auditorium. speak on a pilgrimage she 
The talks are features of "A made in 1989 to Medjugorje, Tribute to Our Blessed Mother," the Croatian village in which a program organized by apparitions of Mary have been Dolores Tantoco-Stauder, Notre reported since the summer of Dame librarian. 1981. 
Further information on "A 
Father Patrick Gaffney, associ­Tribute to Our Blessed Mother" ate professor of anthropology at may be obtained by calling Notre Dame, will speak on "The (219) 239-6904 between 9 a.m. Seven Sorrows of the Blessed and 5 p.m. or 234-7287 after 7 Mother: A School for Virtue." p.m. 
By JOHN ROCK 
Assistant Photo Editor 
The recent convictions of two 
Salvadoran army officers for the 
murders of six Jesuit priests in 
1989 represent "a very meager 
start" towards accountability 
for the army, said Father Terry 
Coonan, a Holy Cross priest who 
has worked in El Salvador. 
"The army has operated with complete impunity since 1977, in fact there was no account­ability for the army up until this trial," said Coonan. 
Coonan, who has twice visited El Salvador with various human rights groups, worked with the Jesuit community to which the slain priests belonged. There, he learned first-hand of many of the events surrounding the massacre. 
The night before the murders, the army cordoned off the en­tire campus of the Central American University, according to Coonan. 
"Only the army was allowed access to campus," he said. 
The intended target of the massacre was Ignacio Ellacuria, who had become "sort of the intellectual voice for the rebels," according to Coonan. Ellacuria was one of the six priests slain.' 
The priests' housekeeper and her daughter were killed so as to eliminate any witnesses, Coonan said. 
The army and right-wing of Salvadoran government later circulated rumors that the guerrillas had been responsible for the killing, but "it was very clear to anyone with eyes that that wasn't possible, " he said. 
IllALUMNI T ~-~~ 
SENIOR au .t.cw to z.,,~:-, 
&!:CLUB 
Priest talks on El Salvador murders 
The conviction of Colonel 
Guillermo Benavides, the man 
most believed to have ordered 
the killings, surprised many 
people, including Coonan. 
"The general consensus among the Salvadoran people was that he would get off," he said. 
Although five enlisted men were convicted for the Decem­ber 2, 1980, murders of three Maryknoll nuns, it is the first time that an army officer was brought to trial, Coonan said. 
"It is interesting that it (the unprecedented trial) happened only after much U.S. pressure, " he added. In fact, Rep. Joseph Moakley (D-Mass.) spearheaded the movement to suspend monetary aid to El Salvador until a SlJ.Ccessful prosecution of the murderers was complete, Coonan said. 
Despite the convictions, Coo­nan believes there is still some military cover-up. 
"A crime of this dimension doesn't happen without some­one higher up ordering it," he said. 
Another inconsistency with the trial was the acquittal of seven enlisted men, some of whom had confessed to the killings. 
"That is the dissatisfaction the Salvadoran Church has with it, that in fact only the mid-level officers have been convicted. The soldiers that actually did the firing have not been con­victed," he explained. 
While touring the war-torn country, Coonan met with Maria Julia Hernandez. Hernandez heads the human rights group Tutela Legal, which was originally sponsored by Arch-


THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB IS THE PLACE TO BE TO WATCH 
ND 
vs 

STANFORD 
ON OUR BIG SCREEN! SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5,1991 JOIN ALL YOUR FRIENDS AND DON'T MISS OUR 50¢ SPECIALS DOORS OPEN AT 9:00pm GAME TIME IS 1 0:00 pm
111 AlUMNI ====== 
-CSENIOR Lua·
... 
-

bishop Oscar Romero, himself murdered by right-wing ex­tremists. 
Coonan specifically asked her what message she would like to give to students at Notre Dame. 
"The deaths caused by your country, the United States, by support of a brutal military is what you should know," said Hernandez. "U.S. policy there has been counter-productive and actually murderous. 
"You should read the gospels and see that U.S. involvement in El Salvador is the antithesis of the message of Jesus. As stu­dents, you must change the minds and hearts of your coun­try," Hernandez said. 
Coonan said he was struck by the similarities between the campuses of the Central Ameri­can University and Notre Dame. 
The university is located in Santa Tecla, a suburb of San Salvador. It is an "upper-middle class, quiet area with lots of green grass and trees, very Notre Dame-like," he said. 
The Jesuit's murders there were as much as a shocking, unexpected atrocity as if six Holy Cross priests were dragged out and shot out on the South Quad, he said 
The similarities stretched far beyond the physical aspects of the schools. 
The focus of the two schools is similar, according to Coonan, because they believe in "educating them (their students) with some ideas of justice with the conscious idea that their faith is meant to impact the world in very concrete ways," he said. 
O'Brien 
continued from page 1 
Court on the grounds that the road would destroy worship practices critical to their reli­gion. 
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote that the road would in­deed destroy Native American worship practices. She added that such a disruption of prac­tice would not, however, hinder individual Native American 
thinking.  
no limit on U.S. this ignorant, race."  treatment of dependent  

O'Brien related more cases demonstrating the attempts of the United States to strip the Native Americans of their cul­ture and to assimilate them into the American melting pot. 
For example, reservations were used as illegal dumping grounds for hazardous waste. Indian children were taken from their homes and sent to government-run schools without their parent's knowledge. One girl, she said, was "hung by her thumbs" because she spoke her native tongue at one school. 
O'Brien has written a book titled "American Indian: Tribal Government." 
Information on the Native American culture can be obtained from Monica Tseth­likai, president of the Native American Student Association 
at Notre Dame. One highlight for the club is a pow wow 
1------------------~======;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:,_________________....,._J. . _.. April 4 at Stepan Center. 

The Observer 
Friday. October 4,1991 
Supremacist to face murder trial 

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. (AP) -Avowed white supremacist Byron De La Beckwith was ex­tradited to Mississippi on Thursday to stand trial a third time for the 1963 slaying of civil rights leader Medgar Ev­ers. 
Two Hinds County, Miss., deputies escorted the 70-year­old Beckwith from the Hamilton County Jail less than two hours after a federal judge refused to further delay extradition. He arrived in Mississippi several hours later. 
U.S. District Judge R. Allan Edgar rejected requests by Beckwith for both a temporary restraining order and a writ of habeas corpus that would have halted Beckwith's return. It ended his 10-month battle to avoid going back to Mississippi. 
Dressed in a suit and tie, Beckwith seemed in good spir­its as he left the jail, stopping to engage in a brief but spirited exchange with several re­porters. 
"I didn't kill him. Did you kill
Dave M~teja, a fifth year engineering major, tests his driving skills on 
him?" Beckwith said. "And if
a game 1n the Gorch Game Room on Thursday. 
Serbia will take over parliament 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia (AP) ­Moving to consolidate its con­trol over what remains of Yu­goslavia, the republic of Serbia announced Thursday that it was taking over the federal parliament with three allies. 
Although the parliament is virtually defunct, the move ap­peared to represent Serbia's effort to usurp what remains of federal power. A senior West­ern diplomat said the move ef­fectively dissolved the eight­member federal presidency, which nominally controls the Yugoslav army. 
The army, which launched a major assault against Croatia this week, bombarded areas around historic Dubrovnik, starting a raging forest fire, and closed in on the capital, Zagreb. 
The Borba newspaper in Bel­grade said 26 federal soldiers had died in three days of fight­ing for Dubrovnik. 
The republic of Slovenia and what remained of Croatia would then be permitted to become independent. 
Guatemalan Imports •Vests •Shirts •Hooded Bajas •Fanny Packs •Beaded Jewelry and a variety of hats, belts, purses, barrettes & headbands. Traditional Indian Clothing &much, much 
more! Saint Mary's College 
Sept 30 -Oct 4 
10sm-5pm Located In LeMans Hall 
Rain Place: Fraggar.Gaine Room 
you didn't kill him, can you prove you didn't kill him? I don't know who killed the nig­ger. And I don't care." 
Beckwith paused, expressing chagrin. "I told my wife I wasn't going to say 'nigger' again." 
Beckwith had been held with­out bond since Dec. 31, when he was arrested at his Signal Mountain home on a governor's warrant in Evers' death. 
Evers, field secretary for the NAACP in Mississippi, was shot to death by a sniper on June 12, 1963, in front of his home in Jackson, Miss. 
A rifle with Beckwith's fin­gerprint was found a short dis­tance from where Evers was slain, and he was tried twice in 1964 for the slaying. But in each case, an all-white jury was unable to reach a verdict, resulting in a mistrial. In 1969, Mississippi authorities dis­missed the murder charge. 
After serving five years in a Louisiana prison for illegal possession of dynamite, Beck­with married his second wife, Thelma Neff, in 1983 and moved to Signal Mountain. 

In 1989, new information surfaced indicating possible jury tampering in Beckwith's 1964 trials. The case was re­opened, and on Dec. 14, 1990, a Hinds County grand jury re­turned a new murder indict­ment against Beckwith. 
After his habeas corpus peti­tion on the governor's warrant was turned down by Hamilton County Criminal Court Judge Joe DiRisio in January. Beck­with appealed the ruling to the Tennessee Court of Criminal Appeals. 
But that court upheld the lower court ruling in June, and on Monday the Tennessee Supreme Court refused to hear the case. 
His attorney, Charles Wright Jr., immediately filed a habeas corpus petition in federal court and sought a temporary re­straining order to stop Beck­with's extradition, which were rejected. 
Wright filed a notice of appeal in U.S. District Court 20 minutes after Beckwith was taken away. 


fi and fi MOSIC specializing in CD s. im:rorts & hard-to-finds. issued a free catalog. Sen SfiSE for youn. A&fi. PO Box 369. Keansburg. "J 07734 
THE TRAVELERS COMPANIES 
Invite The UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME students to attend a presentation on career opportunities 
Wednesday, October 9, 1991 
/ 
7:00p.m. Upper Lounge of the University Club 

Featuring Tom Helfrich, ND '72 
Senior Vice President, Corporate Human Resources 
Recent Notre Dame Alumni and Interns will also be available to talk about their experiences at The Travelers. 
All majors encouraged to attend. 

Refreshments will be served. FALL INTERVIEW DATES: 
ACCENT (lnfonnation Systems Management) ACfUARIAL TTMP 
(Telecommunications) 
FMDP (Financial Management) MCEBO ASSOCIATES 
(Managed Care and Employee Benefits) 
November 12-13, 1991 
November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 November 12, 1991 
TheTraveler$J 


' r I I I I I · 1 , I I f t • • I I I , 
.... 
Friday, October 4,1991 Page 5 
The Observer 

Shannon elected vice president of association 
By MICHELLE CLEMENTE 
News Writer 
William Shannon, associate professor of Business Adminis­tration at Saint Mary's, has been elected the national vice­presi~ent for entrepreneur 
education  for  the  U.S.  
Association  for  Small  
Businesses  and  

Entrepreneurship. 
"It is to provide leadership and direction in the ongoing growth of entrepreneurial dis­cipline of small colleges and universities in the U.S." Shan­non said of his new position. 
"The work involved includes sponsoring faculty conferences to discuss entrepreneurship lo­cally and nationally," he added. 
• "It combines the academic, political and real world aspects of entrepreneurship." 
According to Shannon, who is active in women business owner issues, Saint Mary's also has the largest business administration department of any women's college in the U.S. 

"Saint Mary's offers a course in entrepreneurship of women, the only such entrepreneurship for women in colleges and universities," he said. 
Shannon served as academic advisor on the the U.S. Gov­ernment Women's Network for Entrepreneurial Training Advi­sory Council in Washington. He was also a White House guest in the President's recognition ceremony honoring women entrepreneurs and the 
Indiana  Small  Business  
Advocate  of  the  Year  for  
Women in Business.  

Shannon's experience in small business includes a spot as an executive committee member in the U.S. Government National Advisory Council for Small Business. Other past positions include chairman of the Council Business and Economic Devel­opment Committee. Shannon was also elected delegate to the White House Conference on Small Business. 
::::::TJG?~~~~~Sb 

Troop Notre Dame 
The Observer/Greg Massa 

Members of Troop Notre Dame hang a sign in preparation for an afternoon of music at Fieldhouse Mall. 
Sever receives $1 07K salamander grant 
By MICHELLE CLEMENTE 
News Writer 
Professor David Sever of the Saint Mary's Biology Depart­ment received a $107,074 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for studying "sperm storage in female sala­manders after mating." 
According to Sever, female 
Satisfaction 
Comedy and ventriloquism 

October 8 8:00 P.M. Theodore's 
Guaranteed 
(or your money back) Tickets $3.00 at LaFortune 
salamanders are able to store sperm in their bodies and can wait to fertilize their eggs. 
Sever's research involved us­ing ele~tron microscopy to find out how sperm survived for long periods in the female re­productive tracts of some ani­mals. The grant is for three and a half years of research. 
"This summer and the last. two students will stay at Saint Mary's and work on various aspects of the study," said Sever. "The NSF encourages research and participation of students at small colleges." 

Sever submitted his research proposal, "Comparative Cytol­ogy of Sperm Storage Organs in Salamanders," to the NSF Division of Morphology and Anatomy in December of 1990. By June the NSF notified Sever of his grant. 
"It takes six months some­times more before you hear anything and its very competi­tive," said Sever. 
Sever's research was one of the 25 projects given the grant. This is his second grant in six years. 
If you see news happening call 239-5303 and let us know. 
IRISH FANS 
Celebrate the ND Victory at Club 23 Sat., Oct. 5th 
Live Music By: 
FROM WEST OF HERE 
Happy 22nd Jody Hauling a cart Full of Candi 

DEOCE IS WILD -DOUBLE DEUCE IS RARE & EXTRA SPECIAL -AS ARE BOTH OF YOU IN 5.8. 


. ,. 
Friday, October 4,1991 
SECURITY BEAT 


SUNDAY, SEP. 29 
10:40 a.m. Notre Dame Security transported an injured University employee from LaFortune to the Saint Joseph Emergency Room. 
1:50 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported a confrontation he had in his dorm room with a South Bend resident. No charges were filed in the case. 
3:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident suffered a leg injury at Stepan Field. Notre Dame Security responded and transported the victim to the Saint Joseph Emergency Room. 
5:00 p.m. A lyons Hall resident reported the theft of several ar!tclas of jewelry from her purse while it was left unattended at the outdoor tennis courts. 
7:35 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to an accident between an automobile and a bicycle on lake Road. The driver of the bicycle received minor injuries. 
9:02 p.m. Notre Dame Security transported an injured Siegfried Hall resident from the Rec Sports office to the Saint Joseph Emergency Room. 
MONDAY, SEP. 30 
4:06 a.m. A Cavanaugh Hall re$ident The Observer/Greg Massa reported the theft of a poster from· his
Poster sale 
unlocked dorm room. •-· · · 9;28 a.m. Notre Dame Security

Freshmh~nl Efrilcl Zmarzly pauses for a glimpse at some of the posters on sale in LaFortune Thursday after­
responded to the report of a suspect

noon w 1 e e ow freshman Lames Kennedy looks over his shoulder. 
Store 
continued from page 1 
the relocation of the bookstore 
and the preservation of the 
neighborhood. 
Pandora's existed before the 
area was zoned A-residential, 
so it is permitted to remain in 
the neighborhood under a 
grandfather's clause. However, 
the store cannot relocate 
within the neighborhood unless 
the city designates the new 
parcel a C commercial zone. 
Pandora's first attempted to 
relocate in Spring 1990 by 
submitting a petition for the 
rezoning of a piece of land on 
the corner of Notre Dame Av­
enue and Howard Street. That 
corner was formerly the site of 
a popular student bar called 
"The Library." 
The bookstore faced major 
opposition from the Northeast 
Neighborhood Association and 
the University of Notre Dame. 
Quigley said that area residents 
were opposed because of bad 
experiences with establish­
ments in the neighborhood. He 
said that the neighborhood 
feared that the bookstore could 
fail and other commercial 
establishments could purchase 
the land. · 
Notre Dame stood beside the 
neighborhood, in a show of 
support for the large number of 
faculty and staff that live in the area. The University also offered to buy the land to avoid the rezoning of the parcel. 
As a result of this opposition and lack of support in the city council, Pandora's withdrew its petition in August 1990. Early in 1991, they obtained a build­ing permit for the same piece of property, this time with the intent to build a private library. The permit was revoked by the city shortly thereafter on the grounds that only a public or non-profit library can be built on commercially zoned land. 
The Notre Dame-Howard 
Partnership. which owns the 
bookstore, filed suit in June, 
stating that the city zoning 
codes only say that libraries 
are allowed on land zoned A 
residential. 
This tentative settlement 
between the city and the 
bookstore would call for the 
partnership to sell the property 
on the corner of Notre Dame 
and Howard. as well as drop 
the suit against the city. In 
return, a 66 by 120 foot parcel 
hunting near Juday Creek Estates. The suspect was found ~nd issued a trespass 

on the corner of Howard and St. Peter's would be rezoned C commercial. 
Quigley said that this could lead to spot zoning in the resi­dential neighborhoods of South Bend. "What right have they to turn you down for a spot change if they give me one?" he said. 
He said that the neighborhood has few com­plaints against Pandora's. However, Quigley is quick to point out that this is not a per­sonal matter, but an issue of principle. "We're not mad at the people," he said. "We are against spot zoning." 
THE GAME

Oh My God3 -Aaah! 
•BASKETBALL 
SHOOT 

•FIVE 
DART BOARDS



Elizabeth Gleason is 
•PIZZAS FROM SCRATCH 
o11JJ\'9] ~~1 ®~ ]S6.\11 r~ rlli'~ TITJ6,\'Jff!J hl ~ [}fJ7
FINALLY Legal. Happy 21st 
•EVERY 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAV NIGHT 

•CONVENIENTLY 
LOCATED JUST 


OFF CAMPUS () 0 R 1' 

'\ ~ 
Located li')"(Jnlverslty Lanes • 1602 NJronwood • 233-BOWL 

FAST
&HOT 
271-1177 
Papa John's Prediction: Notre Dame 42 Stanford 26 
Thanks for your support! Don't count us out • we're getting faster by the day. 
warning. <+ · }? The University of Notre 
9:45 a.m. A P~uerilla WtlSt resident rf)pGfted vandalism to her vehicle while: it

Dame is not taking a formal stand on the settlement. Mandy l]oi;~:~~ ~.=~ 6~!~~a:~+sl:~;lty
responded 1o a twovehic1e accidenton f:diSOli Road. No_injuries were report(td. ,.,.__ 

Arnold, manager of Pandora's 
Books, would not comment. 
::::~::~::~::::~::=r~:-_ ·---_:__._-_:.+~~~f:i/:>~::::·: ::·:Nw~r:::::: ::··::::::i":::::\::::Sr:::r:W~fi~r?···· 

PUT ON SOMETHING COMFORTABLE AND' STEP IN"' 
s 


SPORTS R!STAURANT LOUNGI! 
•PAI!I! POPCORN 
•SATEUJTI! SPORTS 
•FIVI! T.v.I TO WATOII 

9:30 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of an injured Fisher Hall resident. The victim had injured himself falling and was transported by ambulance to the Saint Joseph Emergency Room. 
10:52 p.m. Notre Dame Security transported an injured University em­ployee, who had fallen from his bicycle on Lake Road. to Memorial Hospital. 
TUESDAY, OCT. 1 
11:30 a.m. A visnor to the University reported the theft of his _parking ..:iecal from his vehicle while it was parked near the grotto. 
12.;33 p.m. Notre Dame Se<:urity responded to the report of a Knott Hall resident who was suffering from a 
persistent nosebleed.  The victim was  
transported  to  the  Saint  Joseph  
Emergency Room.  

1 :37 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of a two car accident on the Notre Dame Credit Union access road. No injuries were reported. 
WEDNESDAV,OCT. 2 
6:49 a.m. Notre Dame Security transported an injured Saint Ed's resident from the Student Health Center to the Saint Joseph Emergency Room. The victim had fallen from his loft. 
1:20 p.m. A University employee reportoo she lost her A: 16parking decal. 
..• q,!~12 p.m. __ A N<:W• Dame stud~nl reported she lOst her o~a paoong decaL · 
4:35 p.m. A Flan(ler Hall resident repqrt~ ~lost hi$ {);.2 t$rking decal. __ .... -< t;{j6:~~>P~M. Notni bame, Secu.t-itv responded to a report (# •suspects illegally soHciting perlume In Grace HaiL 
:":-:-:=:;~~~{:::: • . ' •.::::~~-·, ', . ; •:;:;~~~=:=·=:-A•{·' •.". ··::··-;-:;:~:f:::::::;.;;;{.::~::,:.:.._!.-:: .::~~::: ··· .·.·:::::~-;::·!1;~~~Wm;:.::: -·· ·.:·:::=::~::.:,::::; =:::·:-::~:I~f~lli~j~li~:Ji.*~ii;·:;~:;::::::~~;~~~ft~]~;~~t~~t~~[:~~~;i~~~~; 
FRIDAY-SATURDAY OCT. 4 &5 
BIG DADDY 


------~ 
The Observer 
Page 7
Friday, October 4,1991 

Cuban-Americans will gather for conference 

The ObserveriGreg Massa 

Off-the-wall architecture 
Different styles of architecture are represented at this exhibit of work in the Architecture Building. 
Special to The Observer 
Cuban-American students will meet at Notre Dame for a con­ference, "Preparing for Cuba's Reconstruction: Lessons in Democratic Institution Build­ing," which will coincide with the meeting of the Fourth Congress of Cuba's Communist Party in Havana on October 10. 
Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz will be the guest of honor at the conference lun­cheon and will speak on the "Motivation Factor for Democ­racy's Building Blocks." 
Other speakers will be Pedro Luis Yanez Roman, legal advi­sor to the Council of Europe, on "Colonialism, Communism and Castroism in Cuba;" and Luis Aguilar Leon, professor of gov­ernment at Georgetown Uni­versity, on "The Challenges of Cuban National Reconciliation." 
Also speaking will be Igor Grazin, visiting professor of law at Notre Dame, and member of the Supreme Soviet, on "Baltic Independence: Recom­mendations for Cuba;" and G. Robert Blakey, professor of criminal law and jurisprudence at Notre Dame, on "The Role of Justice in a Free Cuba." 

The schedule is as follows: 8 a.m. -9 a.m., registration; 9 
a.m. -9:30 a.m., welcoming remarks; 9:30 a.m. -11 a.m., "Colonialism, Communism and Castroism in Cuba;" 11:15 a.m. -12:45 p.m., "The Challenges of Cuban National Reconciliation;" 
12:45 p.m. -2 p.m., luncheon; 
2:15 p.m. -3:45 p.m., "Baltic Independence: Recommenda­tions for Cuba;" 4 p.m. -5:30 p.m., "The Role of Justice in a Free Cuba;" 5:45 p.m. -7:15 p.m., "Law and Morality in Constructing a Legal System in Cuba." 
Tickets for the luncheon cost $10 and are available in the of­fice of the assistant dean of the Law School through Monday. 

Happy 20th Birthday JEFF .,HOMPSON 



Thabo Mbecki 
Director of International Affairs for the African National Congress 
" 
urrent Po itica eve o ments 
• 
. ;J 
J
tn 

······ ·· 
out rica" 
_4:00 p.m. Sunday, October 6th Cushing Auditorium 
Sponsored by: 
Office of the Provost 
•

STUDENT 
GOYIRNMINl 
Members ofthe Arts and Letters Council and the Business Council 

-I ' I 

Viewpoint 
Friday, October 4, 1991 page 9 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991·92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor •....•...••...•... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •.............. David Dieteman Production Manager ..••.......• Jay Colucci Accent Editor •••.••...••..•••...•John O'Brien Systems Manager ..•••.••........ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •.......... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....••............•• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••...••..•••Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Unjust actions, miscommunication marred intramural football game 
Dear Editor: 
I am Steve Fortunato, coach of the Off-Campus Inter-Hall Football Team, writing on behalf of our team. Following here is a list of twelve facts that will lead the reader to one con­clusion: the Off-Campus Team was treated unfairly. 
Fact 1: On Monday, Sept. 9, Rec Sports approved the eligibility of Holy Cross students by specifically citing that the first year Holy Cross students were eligible. Insurance numbers of the players were taken, the players were placed upon our team's roster, and the players were issued equipment. 
Fact 2: On Friday, Sept. 27, at 12 p.m. Rec Sports removed these seven players from our roster, stating that they were ineligible due to their non-Notre Dame student status. 
Fact 3: At this point I informed Assistant Director of Rec Sports Rick O'Leary that this was his assistant who granted these players eligible and issued them equipment. 
Fact 4: Rick O'Leary was unwilling to accept the re­
sponsibility of his office's miscommunication and insisted the game on Sunday, Sept. 29 against Flanner be played. 
Fact 5: I proceeded to inform him that this action was unjust and we should be given adequate time to replace these players. He refused. 
Fact 6: I issued a verbal plea of protest and stated that I would issue a formal written protest on Sunday the 29th before the game was to be played. He agreed to meet me prior to game time. 
Fact 7: Rick O'Leary did not show up on Sunday or attempt to contact me. 
Fact 8: On Sunday I requested O'Leary's assistant postpone the game until Tuesday. Oct. 1, to allow us one working day to reconstruct our team. They refused. 
Fact 9: At this point I transferred my plea to the Rector/Coach of Flanner, Father Seetch. I informed him that the loss of these players was caused by miscommunication in the· Rec Sports office and that playing the game under these conditions would be potentially dangerous to our players because they would be playing unfamiliar positions on both sides of the ball. 

Fact 10: Father Seetch in­sisted the game be played. Fact 11: We lost to an inferior team. 
Fact 12: On Monday, September 30, I contacted Rick O'Leary to follow up our plea of protest and was deliberately given misleading information on the protest procedure to deter me from following up our protest. I was told that the plea goes to his boss and him and that his decision was already made. I have since found out that a protest is evaluated by an Intramural Board comprised of independent Athletic Directors besides Rick O'Leary and his boss. 
Conclusion: Due to Rick O'Leary's refusal to accept the mistakes make within his office the Off-Campus Football Team was mistreated. 
Steve Fortunato Off-Campus Football Team Oct. 1, 1991 
Scheduling of Mass hindered Voices of Faith's contributions 
Dear Editor: 
As a vocal music teacher in the South Bend schools and faculty wife, I would like to join my voice with that of Sheri b. Barker in expressing my disap­pointment at the inappropriate scheduling of the Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble during the Sesquicentennial Year Opening Mass. 
One of the first things new teachers are taught in prepar­ing concerts is not to present singing as the audience is assembling. Teachers and choir members practice and rehearse regularly to present a polished, professional performance. Choirs perform only when the audience is seated and quiet. 
How much better it would have been to seat the Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble with the other performing choirs. The chairs behind the other choirs could have been used to ac­commodate the large number of performers. The Voices of Faith should have been allowed to raise their voices in praise of the Lord during the whole cele­bration along with the Glee Club, Liturgical Choir, Chorale, 
DOONESBURY 

Women's Choir and Folk Choir. I thought it was totally insen­sitive to select a Black Spiritual 
" as a communion hymn and not select the Voices of Faith to sing the spiritual. Who better than they to sing it? After all, their ancestors created those. beautiful hymns. How many in the congregation have ever heard the rich harmonies and glorious tone color of Black Americans singing those pow­erful spirituals? Everyone in the congregation was denied a joyful, marvelous, musical ex­perience. As we &ang "Notre Dame, Our Mother," at the end of Mass, I felt something important was missing from the picture of the Notre Dame Family, the pres­ence of an important group who contribute so beautifully to the ethnic diversity of this family in this place. To all the members of the Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble I wish the best. Keep up the beautiful singing. 
Nancy Lucey South Bend, Ind. Oct. 1, 1991 

Life Chain gives students opportunity to support cause 
Dear Editor: Anyone who wants to do all are allowed. Please consider 
On Sunday afternoon, October something for the pro-life this injustice and show your 6, people from all over America cause, now is your chance. We support for all life. will take to the sidewalks for encourage Saint Mary's and Julie Hennigan one hour to stand up and be Notre Dame students to go out Elsa Scheidler counted in display of solidarity and participate-it's only one Co-Presidents, Notre Dame for life. The Life Chain will take hour. Those interested can Right to Life place in South Bend from 2:00-meet at the Grotto at 1:45 Amy Halstead 
3:00 p.m. on Route 31 Sunday afternoon. President, Saint Mary's Right 
(Michigan Street) right across Remember, life is something to Life the entrance to Saint Mary's. everyone is entitled to, but not Oct. 2, 1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE Of THE DAY 

'.Open your eyes, open your eyes, open your eyes, and let it all come rainin' in.' 
Led Zeppelin 

nme in, turn on and submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 
~--­

------------------------......ol 
t OCTOBER4~ 
r-

weekend calendar 

MUSIC 

Mere Mortals, Club Shenanigan's, 10:00 p.m. Big Daddy, Sneakers, 10:00 p.m. Cliff Erickson, Alumni Senior Club, 10:00 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Taste of Nations, Stepan Center, 7:30 p.m. Mime-Bob Berky, O'Laughin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8:00p.m. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC 

Big Daddy, Sneakers, 10:00 p.m. Mere Mortals, Club Shenanigans, 10:00 p.m. From West of Here, Club 23, 9:00 p.m. 
EVENTS Play: "The Tooth of Crime," Theodore's, 8:10a.m. Notre Dame vs. Stanford, Stanford Stadium, 10:00 p.m. 

y 
EVENTS 

Faculty Recital, Little Theatre of Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's, 2:30 p.m. 
Recital: Violin and Piano, Annenberg Auditorium, 2:00p.m. Play: ''The Tooth of Crime," Theodore's, 8:10a.m. 

FRIDAY 

"Backdraft.'' Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 10:30 p.m. "Cyano de Bergerac," Annenburg Auditorium, 
7:00 & 9:45 p.m. 

SATURDAY "Backdraft,.. Cushing Auditorium, 8:00 & 10:30 p.m. "Cyrano de Bergerac," Annenburg Auditorium, 
7:00 & 9:45 p.m. 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAST "Freddy's Dead: Nightmare Ill," 7:00 & 9:00p.m. 
"late for Dinner," 7:10 & 9:10p.m. ''Terminator n," 5:00 & 8:00p.m. "Livtn' Large," 7:40 & 9:40 p.m. "Hot Shots," 7:30 & 9:30 p.m. 
.· 
• • J • . 

'"·•·•· a.~. .a,",,:, 4.4 

C.:il 
IIsplays 
llversity 
By COURTNEY BANNISTER 
Accent Writer 

When asked their primary 
goal, members 
of the 
Multicultural 

Executive Council will 
immediately respond, 
"Increased awareness." The 
council, which heads the 
Multicultural Club here on the 
Notre Dame campus, is cur­
rently made up of ten members 
who help to plan events on 
campus that they feel will help 
to promote other cultures. 
The council was started in 1986 when students began to see a need for more culturally diverse events on campus. In · their fifth year of operation the council has grown considerably. 
The council sponsors the annual Multicultural Fall Festival which is currently un­derway and which will run through Sunday. This is their largest event of the year, but by no means their only activity. Throughout the year the coun­cil sponsors var-ious activities. They try to organize fireside chats when the campus has visitors whom they feels might help students see the world from a different perspective. 

Cel

Last year. the council co­sponsored the bringing of Maya Angelou to campus, the author of many autobiographical best­sellers. With the recent visit of Ariel, the Russian pianist. the 
...

council organized a fireside chat,because they saw a need for a greater awareness of Russian culture. Christine Labaree, a member of the · council. feels that far too often people's views of a society are based solely on the political aspects of the country with no regard for the culture. 

The council also sponsored the "Christmas Around The World" exhibition in LaFortune last year during the holiday season. The exhibit included scenes of the traditions of other cultures. "We try to bring in a wide variety of events. and to promote culture in a variety of mediums," explains Christine. "We hope to attract a lot of students this way, for we understand that not everyone would, for example, be interested in lectures ... 
Richard Saldana, a member of the council, emphasizes the fact that the club's activities are no~ meant to appeal solely to the members of the culture represented. He points out SuperCombo PanAmericano, a Latin American band, as a perfect example of the council's goal when planning events. The band in past appearances has been enjoyed by a wide range of students and will be playing tonight at The Taste, of Nations. The event will last from 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. and will be located at Stepan Center. All :ue encouraged to attend this event and future events sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council. •· 




,..,_ ,. .... 
a e 11 



The Observer /Sean Farnan TOP: In conjunction with the Multicultural Fall Festival, Hawaiian Club members, (len to rignt) Diane Wong, Stacy Siu, Lisa Pascua, Taison Tanaka, and Morgon Tulang perform a Hawaiian dance in the Fieldhouse Mall. LEFT: Dressed in com,tete native attire, the Native Americans were among students who participated in the Festival through dance sharing apart of their culture with others. RIGHT:The Japan Club also took part in the Muhicultura1 Fall Festival which will continue with Taste of ' Nations in Stepan Center today at 7:30p.m. 
Taste a little culture 
By TRAVIS SMITH Accent Writer 
T 
he Multicultural Fall festival continues Friday night at Stepan Center with the Taste of Nations. For the sixth year in a row, the festival will be highlighted by this event. Starting at 7:30 pm, free food and entertainment will be available up until 1:30 Saturday morning. 
According to Adele Lanan, the Taste of Nations is "a celebration of multiculturism where people can taste food from all over the world and enjoy entertainment." The agenda for this year's Taste of Nations includes samples of foods and desserts from 20 different countries, dance competitions, and live entertainment. 

Booths will be set up sur­rounding Stepan's court area boasting samples of food from each country. On the court surface, competitions and exhibitions will be held. Forms of dance from different cultures will be shown. Some of these competitions include: the twist, jitterbug, and a limbo contest. 
Prizes will be awarded to the winners of these competitions, ranging from T-shirts to dinners for two at the Olive Garden, Malabar, Hacienda Mexican, and Great Wall restaurants in South Bend. The Heritage Dance Company will perform different types of dance, while the Super Combo Pan­Americano Band from Chicago will supply the music. 
According to Lanan, the purpose of the Taste of Nations is to "present an ethnic festival where all people can come together and create a sense of unity. All members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communities are welcome. We are trying to gain a true sense of community." 
Last year, the Taste of Nations was attended by 3,000 people and Lanan expects an even larger turnout this year. She stresses that ,~everyone is welcome and everyone who does come will have an en­joyable evening while also learning about other cultures." 

·uerky aims to entertain 

By KATIE PHELAN 
Accent Writer 

omic and mime
C 
artist, Bob Berky, brings his internationally acclaimed solo show to O'Laughlin 
Auditorium at Saint Mary's on 
Friday, October 4, at 8:00 p.m. 
"I always look forward to 
working with people, especially 
college students," said Berky. 
He has been extremely busy 
performing at various locations 
around the country, but he is 
.still excited about his upcoming 
show at St. Mary's. 
While telling a little about his 
life Berky stated, "Recently, I 
have been performing at the­
ater festivals and with sym­
phonies and in my spare time, I 
also teach." 

Berky tells his audience, "Be 
prepared to laugh, not just an 
artificial laugh, but a laugh that 
comes from deep within you." 
Berky has a sincere hope that 
all people will come and enjoy 
his show. 

When asked how he feels about being compared to Robin Williams, Bob Berky replied, "I think you should ask Robin Williams how he feels. However, I am flattered and think the critics see a similar style although our techniques are different. Robin Williams tells jokes and I have under­standable conversations with kazoos and ride around the stage on a unicycle while wear­ing a tutu." Whether or not Berky can be realistically com­pared to Robin William, his performance is truly entertain­ing. Including such American archetypes as the the weekend athelete amd the bird watcher, the act promises success. These performances, created by Berky, show a mastery of of comedic timing . 
Berky has been featured on two PBS specials as well as at international festivals in Scotland, France, Germany, and Hong Kong. Having starred in the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival and off Bradway in "The Alchemeians," Berky is also noted as the winner of a 1983 Obie award. 
Tickets for Bob Berky's show can be purchased through the box office located in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. The box office will be open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Orders can also be taken by phone 219­284-4626. Visa and Mastercard are accepted. Charge of admission is $6 and $7. s·a come and see Berky. It will definitely make your day. 





r-;-'" 
oage12 The Observer Friday, October 4, 1991 
Does God e!t~es Het~o~ S5?~ntry of the y0 ~ak~s~ pitch to sinners 
exist at Notre Dame in a and mercy seekers. We don't 
---------------------------------------------------------------, 
conspicuous way? Is Notre Dame still Catholic? Is Notre Dame a Christian school, and does God "happen" to the people here? If you say no to all of the above, the Sesquicentennial will still be celebrated. The Dome won't tarnish; the Grotto will not go dark. There's no great harm in being an agnostic, unless agnosticism becomes a habit. The pity of that is, agnostics have no place to hide on Christmas and Easter; and they look embarrassed when everyone but them says "one Nation UNDER GOD," at the 
recitation  of  the  Pledge  of  
Allegiance.  
Agnosticism  is  at  least  

honest; anyone could have a bad day when he doubts there's a God greasing the racetrack for the painted ponies on the carousel. I suspect that atheists, without meaning to be, are phonies, even though they don't know they are. You can, with strong conviction, deny the existence of the Tooth Fairy; and most grownups do, as soon as that belief stops being profitable. If you lose teeth when you're seven, you get money; if you lose teeth when you're seventy, you get dentures. Once the baby teeth are gone, the quarters stop appearing under the pillow. The Tooth Fairy, unmasked, turns out to be your father. 
But how could you prove the non-existence of the Supreme Being, even if He were non­
existent? You'd have to he dead of soul, and blind to the mysteries that would induce a rock to be reverent, to even want to try. "The Great .Bear is looking so geometrical, one 

would think that something or why "I have sailed the seas and other could be proved, II come/To the holy city of
,_____________________________ ------­
Be A Part Of South Bend's First Annual 

I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
1 
1 
I 1 I 

This M Spoi'ISOfed by NOISMC Right to Ute, NO Law School Right to Ute and Sl Joseph Right to Uta 
~---~---------------------------------____________________________________________________________, 
Chesterton, "became a sort of village atheist brooding and blaspheming over the village idiot." But Hardy wrote in a poem: "If someone said on Christmas eve, come; see the oxen kneel. . .I should go with him in the gloom, hoping it might be so." Atheism that leaves room for hope can't be any more serious than a venial sin. "Hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul," wrote Emily Dickinson. The thing with feathers in his family, says Woody Allen, is his nephew, One gathers that the nephew wasn't taken seriously, either. 
Why am I reviewing the God-problem? The birthday week is 
. coming up, and I want to be sure that all is well with the ground of my being. On October 7th, I will be 66; and as Dylan Thomas wrote to his father, "Do not go gentle..." Now that the sunset and evening star are visible to my generation, I'm anxious to find out if the gravy train still runs. Sam the Gonoph, a Damon Runyon character says, "I long ago come to the conclusion that all life is 6 to 5 against. Maybe there are deals to be made that will give me better odds. Eliot's Sweeney says: "Birth, and copulation, and death.ffhat's all the facts when you come to brass tacks:/Birth, and copulation, and death./I've been born, and once is enough." Two out of three seems so little to settle for, if birth, copulation, and death are what you have to settle for instead of the brass 
ring."An old man is but a paltry thing,II wrote Yeats. He's "a tattered coat upon a stick, unless/Soul clap its hands and sing." And that, says Yeats, is 






Sunday 2:00-3:00 Along US 31 
• 
Join With Thousands Of Others In This Peaceful, Legal Protest And Show That You Support Equality For All Human Beings, Both Born And Unborn 

• 
All Participants Will Hold Identical Signs Stating "Abortion Kills Children" 

•.
Signs Will Be Provided -Look For a Life Chain Captain On US 31 Near WNDU 


StMary's
Meet With ND/SMC 

us 31 
Right To Life At The Grotto At 1 :40 Or Join Us At WNDU On US 31 
..J 
It is not faith which reveals that human 
life begins at conception, it is the 
inescapable conclusion manifest in the 
empirical biological evidence"
-Cardinal Bernard Law 
The Grotto 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Byzantium, "where sages standing in God's holy fire/ Come from the holy fire .. .ffo be the singing masters of my soul." 
But Byzantium, says Yeats is "no country for old men." Byzantium is the country for "the young in one anothers arms, birds in their trees...at their song." 
I am not a celtic poet, setting sail in search of singing masters; however Dulac is my Byzantium; and Dulac, like 
Byzantium, is the country of the young, where the born-agains 
of all descriptions see icons. and symbols representing myth and magic. Listening attentively to students, fresh from retreats, 
service projects, and hall Masses, who sound like prophets whose lips and souls have been cleansed by Byzantium's holy fire, I'm reminded of the more simple story of Sister Bridget, whom Father Leonard Feeney once wrote about. 
In the story Feeney tells, a very young First Communicant named Marjorie asks the nun to listen to her heart beat after she has received the Host, Sister Bridget says: "I'll be glad to listen .. .lt's beating away as happy as can be,..Do I hear two hearts beating inside you? ... No, 
darling... Oh,  you  mean  Our  
Lord's  Heart  too?  No  
darling...  II  

But, says Father Feeney. Sister Bridget had listened a second too long. Was she imagining something? But how could she be imagining it? As clear as the striking of two bells she heard inside that small bosom against which she pressed her ear, the beating of two hearts. Clearly unmistak­ably, the Sacred Heart had beat in her ear. 
Later that day, Sister Bridget lying on her cot,becomes conscious of a strange noise in her ear. When she raises her head from the pillow it disap­pears. When she pressed her ear tightly it revives again. At that point, she discovers "the law of pectoral acoustics," formulated in this way: "If you press your ear very tightly against a slightly hollow object, you will hear your heartbeat. If it be the heart area of a living object, you will hear its heartbeat as well as your own . " It happens that way with all of us. Discovering our own beauty, we imagine it is God's beauty. 
Sometimes we have religious experiences in which God comes so close, His nearness seems physical, which in a Way it is, because we've become con­scious of Him in the beauty of people. At liturgies and meals at Notre Dame which are like love-feasts, students, getting drunk on the company they're with, feel that their souls have been flooded with the glory of God. All this is holy and filled with Christ's presence. It is an experience of God; but not God direct and unmediated, or a mystical experience, "when the dove descending breaks the air with flame of incandescent terror." 
Christianity is a religion that expect the golden girls and lads (whom we might have called flower children a generation ago) to be on the lookout for salvation and the sacraments. When you see them looking casually wholesome and inno­cent, you might imagine that death has no dominion over them; yet they are not immune to wars, accidents, drug and alcohol abuse, the diseases that are passed down in families, and the consequences of their own folly. When tragedies take hostages, and death takes prisoners, Notre Dame students comfort one another until love redeems their grief and loss. In a way they redeem one another in a human way by a mutual caring that tempers the wind to the shorn lamb Theirs is a peer ministry, not a ministry by professionals. 

When outsiders ask, "How Catholic is Notre Dame?," they have holy Ireland in mind as the paradigm, because Byzantium, in the country of the young, is not on their maps. 
At 66, I use Yeats, only half in fun, to explain what life is like on my side of the generation gap: " The years like great black oxen tread the worldJAnd God the herdsman goads them on behindJAnd I am broken by their passing feet." 
The reply, I swear, comes back; and it's from Oscar Wilde, written while he was in Reding Gaol: "How else but through a broken heart/May Lord Christ enter in?" Where did students learn this great insight so young? When did the shades of the prisonhouse begin to close on the growing children? 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
.JI 

. ---·-· __________________.... 
-!.. -... • .

, "·' r ;"" 'r-.'""r-f"·· 
~ ~ ' ~ "': -"\ ) r .:~~ot:l. 
Friday. October 4. 1991 The Observer oaae 13 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary·s office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for neKt-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Wanted Drummer (with set) Need one Navy GA!!!--call NEED GAs FOR PITT AND USC. Help, need 2 GA for Pitt game Call Rob 271-0104 Ellen-277-4892 MONEY NO OBJECT. Call Ron Call Katie xz3529 A 73 minute CD featuring 19
NOTICES x2157 original songs from 19 campus HELP!! DESPERATELY need NEED 1 OR 2 PITI GA'S. PLEASE bands. All procedes benefit the 4 GA's for USC for family!! CALL JILL 272-1967. Help, I need 2 Tenn GAs for Rich alums need 10 A.F. g.a.'s. Will South Bend Runaway Shelter. 
NOTRE DAME VIDEO 
Alice x4907 Tenn, for my good looking, pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) NEED 2 PITI GA'S available, uncle, who has 624-7990 ON SALE NOW!! 
••HOT NEW MOVIES .. 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA CALL ROB @ 3054 never seen a game at ND--call AT Now hiring drivers 1 0-40 hrs. per Laura at 277-9185, please! I desperately need 2 U.S.C student LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK WE HAVE THE DOORS!!!!!!!!! 
wk. Wages + tips + comm. Flexible WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR G.A's. Call Molli@ 3950.
Several Copies Available schedules & perks. Call today 271· TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL Will trade/deal 2 Pitt GA's LIVE MUSIC 1177. 601-249-3417 NIGHTS. for 2 Tenn GA's/Stu tix. Dominic Campanella Special Membership Rates 
Mike 288-7458 NEEDED: 1 OR 2 PITI GA's at The Coffeehouse JOIN NOW!! 
FAST, PROFESSIONAL WORD FULFILL MY NEEDS!! I 2 PITI & 4 PLEASE CALL JOHN at x1590. Friday, Oct. 4 Basement of LaFortune PROCESSING $1.00 DOUBLE TENN GA CALL TIM #1706 Thanks! (Acoustic Originals) 4:00-11:00 p.m. 
SPACED PAGE BEFORE 4-239-EXCHANGE: I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR , Seven Days A Week 
2174 AFTER 5-277-6304/683-5290 NEED TENN. AND NAVY TIX. PITI AND WILL EXCHANGE Need LOTS of GA's for Navy and SMC -NO Summer Programs in HAVE PITT AND USC STUD. TO THEM FOR 2 TENN GA'S. USC Whitney X4304 London (5/20-6/19) and Rome ATIENTION ENGINEERS/ FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS TRADE OR SELL. JOE X 2064 CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 (6/14-7/13). Travel in Ireland,FRESHMAN INTENTS Promote and Organize our Spring NEED! 2 Pitt GAs Scotland, England, France, Break tours. All materials furnished. i need 2 GAs for PITI for my aunt, MY LITTLE BROTHER AND HAVE! 2 Navy GAs Germany, Switzerland, and Italy.
Want to spend the summer 
Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus who's a nun, and her friend, another FRIENDS WANT TO COME TO LISA X4858 Courses in bio, business, education, in LONDON?? 
Marketing. 1-800-423-5264 nun. Would you deny a nun her THE ••NAvy•• GAME. NEED history, photography, Italian, polysci, fun? Greg x1795 GA'S! I need a Navy GA desperately and sociology. Meeting Oct 7 at Information Meeting: 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 Call Mike x4655 6:15, Carroll hall. Teachers, to students or student organizations i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC. students, pizza, etc. 
Wed. Oct. 9 
promting our Spring Break pete x1791 Info -Call Prof. A.A. Black 284­356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
Packages. Good Pay and Fun. NEEDED: 1 TENN. GA 4460 (office) 7:00p.m. 
Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264. T 2 Tenn. GA's needed. WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS I HAVE PITT GAS TO 272-3726 (home). E Leave message for Matt. PLEASE CALL EMILY AT TRADE OR $$-OR BOTH!! 
Or see Dr. Lucey at 371 
Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling N 277-4861 Call Matt at x2318. EBD,
Fitzpatrick Hall or N TYFTWIMS
Spring Break Packages to 1-800-443-0188. 
call Jon @ 1 750 Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, E HELP' Alum needs 2 USC GAs YAYATE,B Florida! Best Trips and Prices! S PRICE IS NO ISSUE & i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791 Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 DS,Need flowers, roses or 
Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-S quick reply guaranteed. EMB arrangements?????? 
6786. E I NEED TENN TIX BADLY! NEED 5 Pitt GA's Joe #2190 E Thanks! CALL MIKE AT 1103. WANTED: One national domestic ..IRISH GARDENs·· 
Wanted: Teacher for begin­TWO USC 40-yd line tix for sale­policy. Must be manageable, ning classical guitar. Call HELP!! I need PITT TIX for my FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME reasonable CALL 289-8029 economical and sufficient to meet Basement of LaFortune 
John at 232-8065. parents and some friends-if GAMES 273-1802 the needs of over 200 million 
I don't get'em I'm dead!! I need: 2 Navy GAs ignored Americans. If you can help,USED BOOKS CHEAPII!!II!!!! 
Please call Lynne @ X2614 HELP! Tenn. GAs please call our toll-free Washington 25% off list price 
FOR RENT TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED call Greg 289-8917 line at 
1 0-5:30 everyday 
I need Tix all games Please call Sam Santo at 1 "800-GET-CLUE Pandora's Books corner of ND 
Jason x2030 (201 )217-0030 (home) or Help me be a little angel! My ave & Howard BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
(201) 992·8700 (work). godmother needs a USC GA. Be REMEMBER ! D.C. Club 219-291-7153 
$$$$$ my savior-X3484 NO bus for Oct. Break! 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
'68 ALUM DESPERATELY 287-4082 BED AND BREAKFAST 
USC GA's needed. Call and leave WANTS 2 GA'S TO ·#·#·Let's Make A Deal•#*# DOCTOR STAT, DOCTOR LOVE Lovely rooms with private bath & message 277-9468. TENN OR USC I need USC GA's more than you HAS FOUND A NEW VICTIM; BEN 
Typing entrance. 291-7845. 
CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 can imagine!! Call Liz at x2691 if JEHRING HAS BEEN INFECTED Fast. Professional 
$$$$$ you can help me out! BY A CALLIPYGIAN. 
277-7406 DESPERATELY SEEKING PITI
FOR SALE NEED TENN. GA'S . AND USC GA'S FOR '68 ALUM Have 1 Pitt GA MONIQUE WHITE­CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, LIZ-3783 OR 2184 Best Offer ......._L_o_s_T_t_F_o_u_N_o__,l CATHoucs "·coNVICTs,, OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. and Jr B Ball appl Good Luck on LSAT's !!!! 
I 
Need 3-4 PITI. TICKETS. Will x2204 T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­1 STD TIC 4 Sale pay the big bucks! Jeff 234-2396. Love,LOST!!!!!!!!!!!! 

Shirts $7. Sweatshirts. $12. Phone 
232-8230 NEED 2 GA FOR USC. LV. MSG MC Game Day Promotions 291-6394. 
Need 4 TENN GA's FOR MK. 312/868-0119.

i lost my i.d., detex, etc. 
NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO call jon 271-1562 Native offers Spanish classes at STAR WARS friday night 
OVER40%0FF 
ALL HOME GAMES. 

(10:30 show) Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAP! 
X1578 I need 2 USC tix Beatriz
Pleeeze call lisa right away PERSONAL
-Over Thanksgiving to see the ND 
Tom #3109 Call 272 97 13VERY IMPORTANT! football game in Honolulu. Call WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLDX4862 
x3457 for info. I am the Lizard King and I can do WASHINGTON, D.C. CLUB! 
JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY AND NEED 3 TICKETS TO NO vs. USC TENN. anything. Please help! 3 people seek FOUND: GRAY WALLET IN SEGA GENESIS & GAMES BST 
ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-ride(hopefully-not necssrly­LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
OFR X4070 

0654 CALL TOM $$$$ together)to/from DC for Break. Lve CALL STELIUS AT 277-8827 TO 
X1762 Need GA's to all home games. anytime, pay costs, spit drivng. VryIDENTIFY. 
plane tix anywhere in U.S. cheap­have extra Purdue tix. 
WE HAVE GA'S TO ALL GAMES, Ill luggage! Chris 2166(1v a msg)call Mike B. 234-1048 Call Tom x1563
YE5-EVEN USC I NEED USC,TENN,PITI,& NAVY 
LOST OR STOLEN 
x 1686 Mark or Steve GA TIXS.272-6306 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
LICENSE PLATE 8' x 4' POOL TABLE AND 
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. Good rates. Save Money. Call meIllinois plate reading ACCESSORIES, NEWLY 2 USC stud tix for sale Tom or I NEED 2-3 PITT GA'S for a quote 9:30-6:00, "D TROll" missing since RENOVATED, IN TOP 
Brent 277-8790 Julie x2912 FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + 289-1993. Office near campus. 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off CONDITION. CALL 219-533-7159. 
CASH! CANCUN, JAMAICA, somewhere between Kaplan BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON 

NEED 2 PITI GA's ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes Educational Center (next to Turtle MUSICAL DRINKING GLASSES, Monica X2680 TO ANY HOME GAME$ CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP + every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am.
Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's PLAYS ND VICTORY MARCH. 
CALL COLLECT BONUS CASH! FOUR SEASONS Eastern time. Train and jump thecute, but it will cost a bundle to $10. ORDER YOURS NOW TICKETS!!! TICKETS!!! 812-477-2627 1-800-331 -31 36. same day. Modern equipment and replace so PLEASE return if you BETIY 239-7458 OR 289-1321 training programs. Licensed have it and no questions will be 
Terminator H lives ....................... . instructors. FFI call Skydive 
If you ANY tickets for any home NEED 2 PITI GA'S
asked!! If you have the plate or 1988 TOYOTA CARROLA SR-5 game, call me CALL JOANNE X4899 Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
info, call 4911. Generous reward SILVER, NEW SNOWS, NO Monica Eigelberger is a ho.
Paulx3830

offered. MAINTENANCE, GREAT CAR! 
Needed: 2 USC GA's. ADOPTION GREAT BUY AT $5200! JOY on men: "If you don't come Happy, loving couple wishes to
TICKETS!!! TICKETS!!! Call Sheila 283-4842.
LOST-J-Crew Barn Jacket 
256-7013 with an invitation, don't come at all" raise your white newborn with Olive Green. Lost Thursday 
PLEASE!! Need 2 TN GAs warmth & love. Can provide September, 19. Call Mike Fender Sidekick Reverb Amp. 
SELL ME 1 OR 2 TENN TIX!! JEN on men: "Why live togetner financial security & education. 
X2095 65 Watts RMS X1684 Zeke 1786 when you can spend the night?" Medical/legal expenses paid. w/ reverb foot switch 
Please answer our prayers by LOST!'!!!!! 
+ distortion like new Paid 260 MONY on men: "The last time I saw calling
HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME I NEED 2 NAVY G.A.S 
at Stepan fields or tennis 
Asking 160 or b/o Heather you, you were in your underwear" . Maureen & Jim 
GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. CALL SCOTT X1688 courts on Sunday, Sept. 29, x4230 
TIX, OR WILL SELL. CALL 1-800-456-2656.
gold Seiko watch and 3 rings that FAST EASY INCOME! 
JASON,287-8818. Need 2-4 USC GAs have lots of sentimental value. 
& 1 Pitt tix ASAP!! EARN 100'S WEEKLY STUFFING · Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23
If found, please call x2867 TICKETS ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­
I HAVE PITI GAS FOR Kathy x3803 Every Tuesday in October $$$$REWARD$$$$$ ADDRESSED STAMPED 
SALE-Call Matt x2318. SEAMAISiN ••••••*. *. *•••**.*••***••••*.*••* * ••••*** Need 1 NAVY GA-Tony #2199 ENVELOPE TO: 
LOST!!!!! A blue Notre Dame jacket 
FAST INCOME 

Help! WE need 3 Pitt GA's!!! I NEED TIX FOR PITI AND or #2174with teal and white stripes on the P.O. BOX 641517 
Or 2 GA's and one Std. Ticket! TENNsleeve. Yeah, the kind you can CHICAGO, IL 60664-1517 Call x2670 and ask for the beautiful 
BUY at the bookstore! If whoever babes Jeanne and Colleen' CALL KEVIN @ 289-6541 PITI GA'S FOR SALE 
took this jacket from South Dining SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM? 
CALL 1781; 

Hall on Tuesday, Oct. 1 could call Trying to beef up a meatless
MAKE OFFER 

X4000, and offer to return it, it resume? We can help with all sortsI NEED NEED NEED NEED would be greatly appreciated. 
of editorial services. 

WANT SEX PITI TIX SEX IDEAS INTO INK 
I NEED 5-6 TENN. TICKETS PITI PITT PITI TIX NEED 1 PITIGA
Lost: blue NO sweatshirt in 288-3508
WILL PAY BIG$$$$$$$$$$ CALL ERIK AT X2090 CALL MATI X3666front of Cushing 10/1. lffound, please call x1007. 
Say hello to my Iii friend.

Call Sean @427 4 Give me your PITT Student Tic and NEED 4 PITI GA'S AND 2 NAVY you will know the meaning of life (or GA'S ...CALL 288-7458 AND ASK
•• LOST •• 
URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2

i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why at least get some money) Chris FOR MATI OR ROB WIDE, SILVER INDIAN PITI TIX Kathleen @ x3726 don't you sell them to me? I am Jan. x3414BRACELET. LOST 9/10 x4132.
Call me for a good time, 277-6885 .. PLEASE!! I NEED 2 NAVY GAS FAMILY HEIRLOOM-PERSONALLY HEIDI-277-6806PRICELESS. 
I am the Lizard Child, and I've got 

Lowest Fares
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS usc usc usc usc usc uscRETURN WILL ELATE THE an Oedipus complex that'll WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. usc usc usc usc usc Relative have never seenOWNER! REWARD. THNX drive you wild. 
©~(b[b
Vince Needs two GA's to see CONDOMS IN ACTION! 
KATHY X3429 416 LEWIS WANTED: 3 PITI.GA's for THE TROJANS NEED 3 USC GA'S to have 
Happy Birthday Guido, my favoritefamily. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! Call x3414 anytime their DREAMS COME TRUE 

~00@
WANTED HELP ME! Dan x2349 usc usc usc usc usc usc Call MIKE at X2360 Fort Wayner. Tons o' smooches from she who coined this evil 
usc usc usc usc usc usc 

Need ride to UVa/vicinity for break­nickname...Mony. 
©@~[F)~[ru~
PITT TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX NEED 3 PITI GA's for Mom, Dad 
Will help gas,tolls. Sheri x2191 
Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay TIX: I NEED THEM!! and little sister's first game EVER! 
EAR CANDY

I need 2 GA's and 2 stud for Call John x3325 I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS ON WVFI640am $$$.Call at work 
(312) 701-6204 or at home Navy-big NO fans willing to pay-callFALL BREAK. WILL PAY $$. BILL presents

(708) 616-7818 anytime. Dave #1436. Please Help! I need Pitt GA's for x1721. -~:
PITT TIX PITI TIX PITT TIX family. Call Jim@ 1493. 
The Jericho Sesssions see CLASS /page 15 


page 18 The Observer Friday, October 4, 1991 
Forwards Winget, Dalsaso lead SMC soccer vs. UW-Milwaukee 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
When it comes to talent on any given team, most coaches are happy to have one super­star. To have a duo is a blessing. Just ask Saint Mary's soccer coach Tom Van Meter. After making some changes in the squad, the Belles suddenly had a powerful front in junior forward Stacey Winget and sophomore forward Megan Dalsaso. 
"Both are very talented young people. The remarkable thing about the two is that they've paralleled each other( in their playing)," said VanMeter. " The two approach the game from different angles and together they make an excellent striking force." 
It is this striking force that many at Saint Mary's anticipate to lead the fourth ranked Belles, 5-0-2, to a home victory over Division I University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee this afternoon. 
Both players come from top soccer schools. Winget was captain of her Nerinx High School soccer team in St. Louis, Mo., her senior year. She made first-team honors her junior and senior years and was her team's offensive most valuable player. 

Her junior year the team won their state championship. If that wasn't enough, Winget was invited to play on the Budweiser Women's Premiere soccer club during her summers. 
Dalsaso didn't start playing soccer until she was a freshman in high school. But the late start hasn't hindered her on the field. At Mitchell High School, in Colorado Springs, Co., she was a three sport captain her senior year. She received first-team recognition her senior year, as well as all-state her junior and senior years. Why did Dalsaso start playing so late? 
"A good friend got me to play. It was good because my height didn't matter. But I wanted to be the goalie," said Dalsaso. 
Although these two girls could have gone elsewhere, nei­ther one regrets their decision to play for a Division III school. 
"The neat thing about play­ing for a Division III school, like coach Van Meter says, is that you don't get paid to play. You 

Tom Van Meter 

do it because you want to," said Delsaso. 
An example of the impact these two forwards have had on the Belles offense is last weekend's game against Hope College (5-1). The Belles handed their undefeated Great Lakes conference rivals their first loss of the season, winning 2-0. 
Dalsaso scored both Saint Mary's goals. The first came off of a cross from Winget, the second unassisted. This com­plimentary performance from these two forwards is typical of all their games. 
"We've played so well to­gether because we can be play­ing and I can run down the field and I know where she (Delsaso) is without seeing her. The clas­sic example was the cross to her at the Hope game," explains Winget. "We've clicked and I'm so excited we have this year and next year together." 
But Dalsaso and Winget refuse to take all the glory. Both credit all the team's success to the entire team and their coaches. Both stress the importance of a strong defense to hold the opponents, as well as a good midfield. 
Saint Mary's certainly is not lacking in talent in either of these areas. Senior co-captain Kelly Cook is a four-year re­turning All-American sweeper. She has led the defense to hold­ing their opponents to just four points total this year. Senior co­captain Greer Gillilan was moved back into the midfield to control the wings. 
"This year, as the coaches have put it, there are all soccer players on the team. Everyone has the skills applicable to the game," credits Winget. "Switching positions has made us click more(as a team)." 
"This team is very unified. We are very compatible," said 

Wojnas, Irish women's golf face difficult final outing 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
An up and down fall season will culminate this weekend as the women's golf team travels to DeKalb, Illinois for Northern Illinois University's seventh an­nual Huskie Classic. 
The high point of the fall sea­son came two weeks ago at Michigan State, when the Irish set two school records, includ­some big strides in preparation for the spring campaign. 

"We're improving, but we still have a long way to go," Hanlon commented. 
Senior captain Allison Wojnas has been outstanding for the Irish this fall, as have sopho­mores Chrissy Klein, Alicia Murray and Denise Paulin. Freshmen Katie Cooper and Sara Ruzzo have also con­tributed and have shown a lot of potential for the future. ocrity of last weekend? Hanlon 
How the young Irish respond expects a return to the excel­at Northern Illinois after last lence of two weeks ago. week's disappointment will be a "I'm looking forward to this good measure of the team's weekend," Hanlon said. "There character. will be some strong competi­
"There are at least nine teams tion, but I expect us to perform (out of 15) that we can beat," well." Hanlon noted. Host Northern Illinois head­
The only question is, will the lines a tough field that includes Irish display the brilliance they Iowa State, Kansas State, showed at Michigan State, or Nebraska, Purdue and Texas El will they return to the medi­Paso. 
ing a three-round record af ;----------------~---------------------....!;;;;==========~ 
949, 22 strokes better than the previous mark. 'Ihe Irish fin­ished the tournament with their only top ten finish of the season. 
The low point, however, came just one week later when they finished 15th in an 18-team field at the University of Illinois Invitational with a 996 total. That wasn't the highest total of the season, but after the per­formance at Michigan State, coach Tom Hanlon wanted more from his young team. 
"I had high expectations for this tournament (at Illinois)," said Hanlon. "We played against some very strong com­petition, but we really didn't do as well as I expected." 
Despite all the ups and downs, the Irish have shown a great deal of improvement this fall, but they still have to make 


~E.RESMY FIRST~KOWTOSURVIVE. ~ijSE~T?KINK01S:THE COPY \N1Ht 90, AND RETIREAT30 AND DESKTOP PUBLISHING NfWSLE.mR. KILLER. KUH 1 CENTER FOR "THE 90.s • 
Dalsaso. "We are such a tight knit team that everything we do is done as a team and it shows on the field." 
As for Friday's matchup against Wisconsin, Winget and Dalsaso realize the importance of a big win. Passing the mid­way point of their season, the Belles are still struggling for recognition from not only their new division. but from the NCAA. 
The duo hopes to break away from the pack and head to the top of their conference. Only the top three teams in the Great Lakes regional conference re­ceive bids from the NCAA. Winning today's game and Sunday's game against Division I Butler should generate the recognition this young team has asked for. 
"We go into this game very positive. We know we (as a team) have the skill to beat this team," explained Winget. "We're aiming for a NCAA bid. It would be the first ever in Saint Mary's history and we really want to earn it for the school. That would be great." 


ITA~t-\V BRILLIANT IDEAS TOHINKO'S,SITDOWNAl A MACI TOSH WDRKSIATIONJ 
11THE DEFINITIVE 
CYRANO••• MIRACULOUS!' 
-VIncent CanbyNEW YORK TIME~ 
"GLORIOUS!' 
-Richard Schlckel, TIME 
fA_ CROWD PLEASER... 
SUMPTUOUS, ROUSING!' 
-David Amen, NEWSWEEK 

I . I 
I 
I 
I 
I Notte Dame Communication & Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 
Friday and Saturday 7:00,9:45 

•2 MediuiD Cheese Pizzas 
•One single order of 
Breadsticks Open Sat. Oct. 5th until 3:00am 
• 2 Softdrinks 

for ND/SMC delivery 
--~±~ •$10 plus tax 
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· I NOlANA 

must show ND or SMC ID 

Expires Nov. 15, 1991 
Now Hiring 

J 
!ti .• 

Friday, O.ctober 4, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Hey Megan, 

Schaefer pleased as hockey 
From one person who's been jerked Go Walsh.

Class 
around by love to now another, I give you Rage on at the SYR's this weekend! 
seeks membership in CCHA a quote from Magnum P. I. love, monster! continued from page 13 Higgins says: I know it's a cliche' 
Special to The Observer The Irish would begin play in but 'tis better to have loved and lost then never to have loved at all. We need enthusiastic, articulate 
the CCHA during the 1992-93 
OVER40 %OFF Magnum replies: No, it's not! individuals to communicate with our
season. 

Hawaii plane tickets-CHEAP! 
computer product customers world-wide.
The Notre Dame hockey team 
The CCHA is home to two of -Over Thanksgiving to see the ND 
Bass-Master Full and part-time positions available from 
has applied for membership in football game in Honolulu. Call x3457 for 
the last six collegiate hockey 1 Oam-7pm. Familiarity with personal
the Central Collegiate Hockey info.
champions, Lake Superior State NOTRE DAME VIDEO computers helpful but not required. Our
CAMP LEWIS 
Association, one of the foremost (1988)and Michigan State *ALL NEW MOVIES* terrific staff, pleasant working conditions 
-Event wknd. to promote Lewis spirit &
collegiate hockey conferences and new office building on the river create 
(1986). Michigan, Western raise $ to send a Logan Ctt. participant to 
Special Membership Rates a positive non-smoking environment. 
in the country. 
Michigan, Ferris State, Ohio a special camp 
Send resume to:The announcement was made State, University of Illinois at FRIDAY-Bonfire! S'mores, Basement of LaFortune Department CDlast week by Athletic Director Chicago, Miami {Ohio) and stories and sing-a-long 4:00-7:00 p.m. Microshpere, Inc. BRING YOUR OWN STICK!
Dick Rosenthal and CCHA Bowling Green round out the Seven days a week 56790 Magnetic Dr. 
SATURDAY-Camp! Lanyards, 
commissioner Bill Beagan. Mishawaka, IN 46545
current conference members. 
games, tie-dye, & bugjuice Get your membership now! 
Notre Dame is currently an 
WE WON"T TEST YOUR Bux, Bunny, and Bubbles,
independent on the collegiate ARCHERY SKILLS! 
"This is an exciting day for Going to Boston For Oct. Break? Need Tonight will Rage!! We are the Killer 
hockey circuit, but was a mem­SAT NITE-Camp Lewis SYR 
Notre Dame hockey," said coach Someone to Split a companion plane Quad! Let's rage-on no matter what! 
NO SQUARE DANCING REQUIRED
ber of the CCHA from 1981 un­Ric Schaefer upon the ticket. Round trip $110. Shannon 284-Love,Buffy
• 
til 1983. 5441.
announcement. ''I'm aware of 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO 
New NCAA regulations which 
the attractiveness of a league GAINESVILLE, FLORIDA OR Bethany-
limit the number of games ANYWHERE IN VICINITY FOR 
situation from my days as a 
Please Help Happy 21st on Sunday!
played in a season made OCTOBER BREAK. CALL KATHY 284­
player and assistant coach at We need a ride to CT or tri-state area Hope you make it through the weekend. 
5269.

scheduling difficult for inde­Notre Dame. I can't describe over fall break Have Fun! pendents. Please call Jen 284-4366 Love,
what an impact this decision 
FIRE UP, FINEST!!!"We now will have no prob­has on the interest of the best Ram the Slammers! J. 
lem fielding a competitive hockey players in coming to Let's make our coaches proud, and win 
To the hottest Alumni dog: Sweetie-

schedule that will be to the lik­one for the Oakster!
Notre Dame." Your day might've dbeen "cool" Your present is coming ... ing of our players and fans," Notre Dame was 16-15-2 last GO FARLEY! but tonight willbe "coup d'etat"!! HAPPY 21! 
(Defense F-S-Up!) 
said Rosenthal. "Plus, the geo­year, and returns 19 mono­We've got more potential than you might Love, think... Happy 18th!1 Cuddles
graphies of the league make 
gram-winners to this year's 
Love, your cradle robber 

sense for us when it comes to 
squad. The Irish open play MIKE HUIE 
traveling." 
October 25 at Air Force. Twin comfeters flying in the wind .. 
THIS WEEKEND!!!! 
Hedy La Guapa-German sausage rules! 1just wanted to cheer you up... Mama D. 
Don't drink & drive. 
Now that the sheep are back, start 

Don't walk the streets shearin'! (arai-what?) 
at night. 
Oh ny goosh ... Bucky-SAFETY FIRST! 

Smile 'cuz you're loved! 1 can't wait until tonight! Mama D. I hope the old winkie is in rare form!

HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY 

NEEKEND WHEELS Princess 
WEEKEND WHEELS 
It's Katie Caputos Birthday Call her and make her day LADIES LOVE LUNCHMEAT!!!
PHIL MOHR 
WEEKEND WHEELS 
meow, meow, Run, run we're going to miss it 
Stops include: 

SYR Party LUNCHMEAT LOVES??????? The Linebacker 
The quarter inch cut off your hair Five Points 
Busch Kristin-Lafayette Square 
OK good Good Luck on your LSAT's!!!! Club 23 
We'll celebrate Sat.Night 
Main Circle ..
Get ready to get wasted Your favorite roomie 
Library Circle 
Love,Campus View 
Claire, Trish, and Colleen Turtle Creek I.U. STUDENT WHO WROTE 
ARTICLE AGAINST N.D. You must show a NO or SMC ID 

(Sept. 25 Observer) Rich, Address comments to: Hi Babe!! I miss pookie! Take good care STEVE HURST 
James and Mary Jo-
of that fish' 

Happy (Belated) anniversary!! 
Love,

Hope it was nice! 
me! 
Love, Liza 

THE UNIVERSITY COUNSELING CENTER 
PRESENTS 

AN EVENING WITH
.. s:;c. 
~:~~:!-· .~ 
JOHN BRADSHAW 
717 S. WOODLAWN AVE. 
BLOOMINGTON, IN 47401 812-323-2730 
NO GIMMICKS-~ EXTRA INCOME NOW!~ 
ENVELOPE STUFFING -$600 •$800 every week • Free Details: SASE to 
Brooks lntlrnlllonll, Inc. 

P.O. Bar 680605 •Ortando, Fl32868 
Author ofHOMECOMING and THE SHAME TIIAT BINDS YOU 
, 

Host of the PBS SERIES, JOHN BRADSHAW ON THE FAMILY and on HOMECOMING 
AT WASHINGTON HALL OCTOBER 29, 1991 7-9P.M. 
LIMITED SEATING TICKETS REQUIRED 
Tickets available (FREE) at LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE with ND/SMC ID 
SnJDENT TICKETS available beginning October 7, 1991 STAFF/FACULTY TICKETS available October 9, 1991 
One ticket per ID 


AT SAINT JOSEPH 
AnliNTION GRADUATE STUDENTS: 
1 bedroom apartments starting at $465 
2 bedroom apartments starting at $595 Everything you are looking for in a luxury apartment: 
F•ll elze washer It dryer 

F1llly equipped partJ ...... 
Wall eo wall carpetlar 

alld r.u ldteiMta 
Floor eo ceW.r bay wlndowt 

O.tdoor poolaa4 •••·cteet 
H~ted, covered parU., 

Hxerelleroo• 
Ceramic tiled badtt 

Tellllllc:eut. 
Coaveale•t but tr&~~~portatlo• to Notre Dame 
287-2684 

N pm Moll • Ftl ., 
. .1().5 pm Sat 
.li 

M11 ThatStand !·P·•·r·t...._.._lleR ·~ 

-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -­

r 
----~------------------------------------­
' 
page 16 The Observer Friday, October 4, 1991 
Injury plagued men's tennis headed for Kentucky Invitational 
Observer Staff Report  
Competing in its second invi­ 
tational tournament in as many  
weeks, the Notre Dame men's  
tennis  team  travels  to  
Lexington, Ky., this weekend for  
the Kentucky Invitational.  
In Lexington, the Irish will  
face opponents serveral tradi­ 
tional opponents, including host  
Kentucky, Cincinnati, Louisville,  
Indiana,  Northwestern and  
Xavier. The remainder of the  
field  includes  Appalachian  
·I •'')  State, Green,  Ball State, Bowling Eastern Kentucky,  
Maryland,  Miami  of  Ohio,  
Western Kentu,cky, Tennessee  
Tech and Middle Tennessee  

SPORTS BRIEFS 

'I 
'J 
,I ... 
)! 
~ 
r 
I,. 
! 
Michigan. In total, there will be about fifteen runners who could potentially win the event according to Piane. 
But none will be as emotion­ally charged as the Irish, who hope to duplicate their times from the National Catholics seven of which w~re personal bests. 
"Because we ran well, every­one knows we have a lot of po­tential," said Kearns. "They re­

I 
alize that if we put it together

! 
r as a team we can be really good."
t 
Last week's disappointing

r 
I second-place finish to 
K Providence taught the young Irish squad a valuable lesson. 
1,, 
"Everyone realized how much 

r 
losing hurts and that we don't 

f 
want to do it again," said Kearns. 
Please support. 
+ 

State. 
Irish All-American David DiLucia lost a straight sets match to Tennessee Tech's Yasser Zatini in last week's ITCA clay-court championships. DiLucia reinjured a pulled ham­string in the 6-3, 6-1 defeat. 
DiLucia made the trip to Lexington, but will play only doubles over the weekend. The senior will sit out of the singles tournament. 
Last week, several injuries to Notre Dame players prevented matches in the fifth annual Tom Fallon Invitational, held at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
ever, will spend the weekend home. Injuries last weekend forced the cancellation of his B­flight final match with Rosas. Todd Wilson will also remain out of action for the Irish. 
long run, so there may be some comfort in that. 
However, the ultimate evil of the whole affair will have al­ready been done, most likely. All across America thousands of little aspiring football players are watching Notre Dame exalted on their tubes. Do you think they won't be impressed? 
It's not as if the Irish are having any trouble with recruit­ing as it is. They already have a huge advantage over other schools, with their exclusive 

"I had blister injuries from last week, and they just didn't heal in time," said Schmidt. "My movement is limited, and my game really depends on move­ment." 
network, the charms of their school, and-the big one-their reputation. 
Imagine a television executive telling a recruiter at any Division I school the following: "Look, we can give you guys all the exposure you need. We'll make you look good, guaran­teed. Your school will look good. Your football team will look good. They'll be heroes. Every kid will want to grow up to be a player for your team." 
•The Observer accepts briefs in writing every day until  hers, Notre Dame funs. I got a  
5:00 p.m. Please submit your brief, your name, and the date the brief is to be run. •Public skating is now open at the J.A.C.C. Admission for  great look at the Friday night pep rally in the Notre Dame basketball arena, featuring a rousing speech by coach/god  
ND/SMC students is $1. Schedules are available there. Free skate for students, faculty and staff is 12 to 1 p.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. •Saint Mary's varsity tennis team will begin tryouts Sunday, October 6 from 4-6 p.m. at Angela Athletic facility. •NO Hockey is looking for a keyboard players who would  Lou Holtz. I saw Ahmad Rashad speak reverently and affectionately of the Notre Dame band and fight song, which struck up on his  
like to play during the game or pre-record songs for the upcoming hockey season. Interested? Call Coach Schafer at 239­5050. •The YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announcing its winter league. Anyone interested in forming a three man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad at 654-8345. •SMC Varsity Tr.ack meeting for all interested participants will be Wednesday, October 9 at 8 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. . •NO Cricket Club will be practicing every Sunday from 6-7 p.m. at Loftus. Call Marko at 283-3587 or Tim at 283-1437 for info. •Attention all novice members of the rowing club. There is a mandatory meeting to be held in the lower level of Nieuwland Hall at 7:30 on Tuesday October 8. Dues of $30 will be collected. Insurance forms should be-in and training table will be set up. •There will be sports editorial staff meeting at 4:00 p.m. Sunday. Attendance is mandatory.  cue. In short, "Notre Dame Saturday" was well-named. Oh, yes. They also mentioned that the Fighting Irish's oppo nent that day was Indiana. guess it just slipped out some how. In case you haven't caught on yet, "Notre Dame Saturday" is purely biased hype, hype, HYPE for America's favorite football school. Even though Notre Dame probably does have the largest national fan support base, it is questionable that even the Fighting Irish can give the net work high enough ratings week in and week out to make the show a financial success in the  
Runners  HOUSES FOR RENT  
continued from page 20  1992·1993 SCHOOL YEAR  
Michigan, Central Michigan,  
Pitt, Iowa, Purdue, Edinborough, Malone, Houston  Super landlords Inexpensive  
and the defending Division III national champion, University  5 and 6 bedrooms Security Systems  
of Wisconsin at Osh Kosh. At the Invitational will be sev­ $100 off first month's rent with this ad  
eral runners with the ability to  
keep the elusive individual  
championship out of the hands of the Irish for yet another year.  Call Irish Rentals  
They include John Murray of Malone, Kevin Herd of Iowa,  287-4989  
Greg Parker of Central  Offer expires 11/8/91 
Michigan, and Mark Daly and  
Dominic Middleton of Eastern  

~---------------ARTHUR----------------­
ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO., S.C. 

·All ~A's arid undergraduate accounting and finance majors are mvtted to attend a presentation and reception at 7:30p.m. hosted by ARTHUR ANDERSEN on Tuesday, October 8th in the lower level of the CCE. 
Featured Speaker: Jim Kackley Chicago Office Managing Partner and Member Arthur Andersen's Worldwide Organization Board of Partners 
Dress is Casual 

Refreshments to Follow 
-

Ron Rosas and Tad Eckert return to action this weekend after pulling out of matches Sunday. 
Junior Mark Schmidt, how-

Stanford 
continued from page 20 
NBC showed the nation pic­tures of the Irish locker room, the tunnel between the locker room and the field, the field, the stadium, the famous gold dome, and the famous painting of "Touchdown Jesus." 
I saw interviews with Notre Dame coaches, Notre Dame players, Notre Dame ex-play­ers, Notre Dame band mem 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSIIESS. 
Partnership fora Drug-Free Amen·ca 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Friday and Saturday Starting at 5:00 p.m. 



Available onlv at Shone).-~ '~ ~·komes the panicipating restaurant~ :\merican Exrre.-;s' Card. Cards 




Friday, October 4, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Irish soccer on road for MCC contests 
AT AZAR'S 

I 
Now that you've danced 
the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azar's. 

It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• Five Fluffy Omelettes 
··Six Moonlight Breakfasts 
• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

• 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time you•re not quite to call it anight, heaa to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all­
new LATE NITE menu. It'll tame the Midnight Munchies. 
AP~ 

BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 
utout of the season. Senior captain Brett Hofmann and junior sweeper Mario Tricoci team up with freshman goalie Bert Bader to lead the Irish defense. 
"In the beginning, it's impor­tant to establish a strong de­fense," commented Tricoci, "and now that we've done that we work on keeping possession of the ball and creating scoring opportunities this weekend." 
Friday"s opponent, Xavier, is coming off a runner-up finish at the Western Kentucky Tournament, where they de­feated the hosts 2-1 but fell to 

e Rock 3-2. October 13th. 
Happy 21st 
ELIZABETH 
. ·-:.:: .·.... . ·.: 
Work one weekend a month and eam $18,000 for colege. 
Ifyou have the mind for college, but not the money, the Indiana Army National Guard has a golden opportunity for you. Lend us your brainpower one weekend a month and two weeks a year, and we'll give you $18,000 or more for college. 
Under the New GI Bill, you'll qualify for up to $5,000 for tuition and books. Then you'll get another $11,000-or more-in monthly Army Guard paychecks. Plus, a cash bonus ofup to $2,000 as soon 
as you finish Advanced Individual Training. 
And ifyou have college loans, the Guard will help you pay those off, too, with up to $1,500 extra per year. No other service offers you so many educational benefits, and asks so little of your time. 
So, ifyou can spare one weekend a month for your country, call your local recruiter. 
And help yourselfto a higher education. 
219-234-9258 
Goalie Dave Schureck earned tournament MVP honors for the Musketeers, who stand at 3-4-2 overall and 0-1-1 in the MCC. Xavier returns eight starters, including Jeff Jordahl, who finished 1990 with 17 total points and Tom Holten, who collected 11 points last year. Notre Dame has won six of seven games against Xavier in a series that dates back to 1977, including 2-1 win last season. 
Dayton is another team the Irish have traditionally domi­nated and they will have a chance to continue that domi­nance Sunday afternoon. In 1990, the Irish thrashed the Flyers 5-1 in overtime. Eight returning starters from last season's 11-8-3 campaign, in­cluding senior forward Brian O'Toole, will attempt to earn the Flyers (2-5-1) their first victory over Notre Dame since 1979, and only their second win in ten meetings. O'Toole, who led Dayton with 27 points in 1990, is expected to return on Sunday after an injury forced him to sit out three games. 
After next Wednesday's game at Valparaiso, the Irish will re­turn home to face MCC rival 
INDIANA 
Ill 
I I 
I 
Americans at their best 


The Irish 

Great Tastes Begin Here... 
2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, IN 262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 234-9000 
120 N. Main Mishawaka, IN 255-7737 

Reservations A preciated 
~~r.:"U~ r! ~£'A~ Restaurant & ,,~~ 1'1 8 Cocktail lounge 
~ U A Authentic Szochuan.
•t 

~~ ft.J..c. ·<"! Mandarfn & Hunan Culslnf' 
t.a-=b• .tartiDg at._ , ___ . $3.9~ 
Dlmwra !darting at••_____ .$5.4 
Bar & Hestaurant open 7..,• Mon.-Thura. 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m., Fri...sat. 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. & ......,.. 11:10 .... to 10 p.m. 
130 Dbde w.,N., South 8elld ('*1 to "-'tdlll"'alnn) 272-7378 
,, 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
A busy weekend awaits the Notre Dame men's soccer team as it travels to Ohio to battle Midwestern Collegiate Conference rivals Xavier and Dayton. 
Coach Mike Berticelli's Irish are coming off a 3-0 win over Detroit, which pushed their record to 3-3-1 overall and 1-1­1 in the MCC. 
Berticelli knew his highly touted freshmen would have to perform well for the Irish to be successful on their current four­game road trip, and the rookies were up to the challenge against Detroit. Freshmen Tim Oates, Jean Joseph and Tont Richardson scored a goal apiece to power the Irish past the Titans. Oates' goal, his third of the season, made him Notre Dame's top scorer this season. 
The most consistent part of the team this year, however, has been the defense and the Irish back line responded again at Detroit, allowing only two shots 
•••••••••·-~~~on goal on the way to the fourth 


page 18 The Observer Friday, October 4, 1991 
Women's tennis opens season with NO Invitational 

By RICH SZABO freshman Laura Schwab. 
herself," said Louderback. "For good, but the weekend will be 
Sports Writer In the doubles lineup. the team, we're better off long." 
Faustmann-Tholen and Bende­having her in the spring. We "There's a lot of good teams 
If you happen to walk near Schwab will compete in the first don't want her to push it, coming in, so there should be the Eck Tennis Pavilion this flight, with Vitale-Doran in the overplaying in the fall." good competition. I'm excited weekend, stop inside and check second flight and Bradshaw­Senior Katie Clark will also about the weekend, and it will out the barrage of tennis balls McGinley in flight three. miss the competition, as she is be good preparation for the rest being mercilessly pounded by Irish coach Jay Louderback recovering from a back prob­of the season." said Vitale. the women participating in the expects this to be a weekend for lem. She began practicing last "These tournaments will give us Notre Dame Invitational. getting back into the groove. week and is listed as day-to­an idea of where everyone is 
This tournament will see eight "Most of the girls worked out day. and how everyone is playing." teams competing in an in­a lot over the summer, prac­The Irish Invitational, along The tournament will start dividual draw, in both singles ticed, and trained, but didn't Melissa Harris with the rest of the fall sched­Friday and continue through and doubles. Besides the host play many matches," he said. ule, will help determine the sin­Sunday at the Courtney Tennis Irish, for whom this is their first "It will take them a week or two the top thirty-two players in the gles and doubles lineups that Center. In the event of rain, the competition of the fall season, to get back in playing shape." country. Barton, after a sluggish the Irish will compete with in matches will be held at the Eck the tournament includes Absent from this weekend's start, quickly got back into her the spring. Tennis Pavilion. The Irish will Kentucky, Illinois, Ohio State, tournament will be first-singles game. She dropped her first Regardless of how the indi­be starting a season that hopes Purdue, Drake, Miami (Ohio). player Tracy Barton, who will match to Caryn Moss of Florida vidual performances go, the to see them crack the top 20 and Northern Illinois. be rested predominantly International 6-1, 6-1, and then team is anxious to play some and establish themselves as a 
The Irish will have nine play­throughout the fall to prepare fell to Kristen Bastian of South other people after having gone force to be reckoned with. ers in the singles draw, with for the grueling spring season. Florida 7-5, 6-4 in a much through three weeks of prac­"In practice, we've looked junior Melissa Harris leading Barton played in last week's closer, stronger-played match. tice. good," he said. "They're good the way. Harris is currently National Clay Courts in North Louderback said, "Tracy "This is our first test of the kids and they want to be good ranked 31st in the country after Carolina, her first tournament won't play much in the fall. year," said Eniko Bende. "It will players. I've been very happy reaching the second round of action in four months. The She's done real well the last two be interesting to see how we do. with them. You just can't lose the NCAA tournament in the tournament draw consisted of years and doesn't have to prove The competition will be very when you get players like that." 
spring. 
Joining Harris will be seniors Ann Bradshaw and Kristy Doran, junior Eniko Bende, sophomores Christy Faustmann, Terri Vitale, Lisa Tholen, and Catherine McGinley, and 


Read John O'Brien's column every third Wednesday in Accent. 
I 
1: 
t ,. it t $ $ ....................... $ 
........... $ e • $ e $ $ $ ¢ $ $ $ $ $ $
e n 

~~ 
~. 
~ 
·~ 
/'· 
~ 
,~. 
l ·/ J 
i 
~ 
~ 
~ 
·~ 
~ 
I,i' 
r 
I 
...J.
~ ~ 
i 
I J 
( 
I 
, r 
I 
1 ~ 
J 
' t J 
I 
~· 
;; . _., ... t , • , , , , , , . A , , , , , , t A A A O tO $ t t t t O O t $ O t O t O A t t t t t .; 
J 
\ 
·i 
t 

, , , , , , , , , , , , , ..... .., t • t t p • , $ • «< t t t 0 0 0 • t t • t t t • t • t t • • t • • • • • q t • • 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
FRIDAY 

OCTOBER 4, 1991 7:30 P.M. -1:30 A.M. 
STEPAN CENTER 
Free food and desserts from many coun­tries just waiting to be tasted by you and your friends. The DJ will be pia ying hits from all over the world. There will also be various dance contests and prizes to go to the best Fred and Ginger. 
The decorations and atmosphere are awe­some -you won't even recognize Stepan Center. 
WE BRING YOU THE WORLD FOR FREE! 
MONDAY-FRIDAY 12:30 • 1:30 P.M. FIELDHOUSE MALL (Rain location: Lafortune T.V. Lounge) 
Monday St. Mary's French Club French Crepes 
. Tuesday 
Notre Dame German Club German Food Wednesday 
Notre Dame Italian Club Italian Food · Thursday 
Notre Dame Japan Club Japanese Writing Friday Notre Dame Spanish Club Spanish Desserts 

Happy 21st 
Nicole! 

Get a little cr while you still have time!! 
We Love You, The Girls 
* $ $ $ $ 

a n $ e a a $ $ t ft f $ $ t t t f t e f t t t $ t $ e t f $ f f n $ e ¢ e ...... $ $ e 
Singing Performances Coffee (Around the World) Refreshments provided 
Come on over! Sit and listen to a variety of music from the sounds of a grand piano to the pleasant melodies of the Spanish lan­guage. 
Tuesday, October 1, 1991 
8:00 • 11:00 P.M. Theodores 

"Let Us Pray .. }' 
A Multicultural Experience 
As a closing to the Multicultural Fall Festival, we invite you to join us in a celebration of thanksgiving. 
Lyons -Morrissey Quad 2:00P.M. Sunday, October 6, 1991 
BLACK HISTORY 
BLACK HISTORY THROUGH MEMORABILIA 
Thursday, October 3, 1991 THEODORE'S Exhibit: 4:00 -7:00 P.M. Discussion: 7:00 P.M. VANESSA DURGANS 

t t t ........ t t t t .................. 
Happy Belated Birthday 
KELLY KATHELEEN 
Love, "D.O." 

e e e o ' e $ • n n f $ f f t e t $ t t t t * $ $ ¢ $ • $ $ $ $ f $ $ $ e ........,. 
ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD 
September 30-October 4 4:30 -6:30 P.M. Fieldhouse Mall 
(LaFortune if raining) 
Dancing and Singing all week long. These are exciting, live performances which shouldn't be 
September 30 -October 4 · 
12:00 -1:00 P.M. 
I.S.O. Lounge 2nd Floor Lafortune 
Laidback, lunchtime talks with various speakers who relate their cuhural experiences with you. These are not lectures but rather relaxed open dialogues. 
FREE LUNCH INCLUDED! 
Monday, September 30 Professor Igor Grazin "The Soviet Union" Tuesday, October 1 Professor Michael Brownstein "Understanding Japan• Wednesday, October 2 P~essorJohn Kennedy "The American Illusion of Ireland" Thursct.y, October 3 Professor Sharon O'Brien "The Rights of Indigenous Peoples" Friday, October 4 Professor Everett Percival Open Discussion 


Friday.~ober4, 1991 The Observer page 19 
SPIN JOHN MONKS TIEFARSIIE GARY LARSON 
JAY HOSLER 

Early California freeways 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Kind of club 48 Sal of songdom 25 Bally's trailer 51 Corrida charger
1 Cardinals or Orioles 27 Carillon 54 Honeysuckle's kin
5 Warning signal 28 Loewe's lyrical 57 All right partner9 A false god 58 Glen Gray's 31 Waned13 Summoned to 
--Loma 

court 34 Ancestor 
Orchestra 15 Play opener 36 Monitor lizard 
59 San Antonio memorial
16 Jamaican citrus 37 Tosses fruit 39Yen 60 Ex-manager of the Phillies 
17 Doniical 40 Ankle-high domicile overshoe 
61 "Thanks -!" 62 Weighed down 
18 Put to flight 42 Up to now 63 Island of Alaska
19 Corner 43 Sri Lanka, once 64 St. Symmachus, 
20 Wild onion 44 Swearword 
for one 22 Scottish goblet 46 Bro. or sis. 
65 N J. hoopsters 23 "Hazel" 47 Painter cartoonist --Tadema 
DOWN 

1 Dense ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 2 Bore 3 Pewter or brass 4 Garfield's cry 
S"Beer­Polka" 

21 C.S.A. state 34 Healthy 48 Teacher's &School, in decision
26 Scandinavian 35 Soak flax Savoie 37 Writing-paper
7 Small case helmet
27 European mint size 8 Small ones have so Chicago suburb
28 Trim off 38 Nol of

big ears 51-themark
Cambodia
29Weird

9 Wild licorice (behaved)
41 Caen crop
30Fad

10 Mogul Empire 52 Neighbor of Ark. 42 Kettledrum
capital: 1566 31 A cont. and Tex. 44-of quinine 
11 Malt products 32Bric-a--53 Balustrade 45 Elec. unit 55 Aureole
12 Falsehoods 33 French gulf or 14 Unrelenting berry 47 Fabulist 56 Verve 


Come see Backdraft Friday Oct. 4th 
Saturday  Oct.  5th  
7:30 and  10:30 P.M.  
Cushing  Auditorium  

Admission is $2.00 



Friday 

Noon Fireside Chats. Percival Everett. ISO Lounge, Student Center. ­
12:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Culture on the Quad. Sponsored by the Spanish Club. Fieldhouse Mall. 
4:30 p.m. Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Entertainment. Sponsored by the Philippine Club. Fieldhouse Mall. 
7 and 9:45p.m. "Cyrano de Bergerac." Annenberg Auditorium. Sponsored by ND Communication and The­atre. 
7:30 and 10:30 p.m. "Backdraft." Cushing Audito­rium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
LECTURES 
Friday 

1:30 p.m. Sing to Me 0 Muse, "Cities as a Teacher," Maurice Culot, Institut d'Architecture, Paris. Room 207, Architecture Building. 
2 and 3 p.m. "'Notre Dame's Greatest Teacher of the Humanities," Tour/Lecture. John Shields Rouault. Snite Museum of Art. 
2:30p.m. Sing to Me 0 Muse, "Traditions in Paradig­matic Architectural Education," Lothar Haselberger, Uni­
..

versity of Pennsylvania. Room 207, Architecture Building. 
4:00 p.m. "'South Africa: The End of Apartheid Edu­cation. What Next?" Peter Hunter, University of Witwa­tersrand. South Africa. Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Student Center. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Pierson Deluxe Turkey Sandwich Vegetable Egg Rolls Meat Lasagna Lemon Pepper Catfish 

Saint Mary's 
French Bread Pizza Chicken Tortilla Casserole Banana Split Salad Deli Bar 
-. 

LaFortune Information Desk STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Sports 
page 20 Friday, October 4, 1991 
Cross country hosts Invitational 
All-America duo of McWilliams, Coyle pace Irish 
j 
ND women expected to challenge top Midwest teams 



By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
Enough is enough. The dry spell must end. On Friday afternoon, the sev­
enth-ranked men's cross coun­try team plays host to the Notre Dame Invitational, an event they have not had an individual winner in since 1964.. 
Last year, All-American Mike O'Connor was the highest fin­isher for the Irish at third, but O'Connor is gone. Not to worry though, the Irish have a strong cast of runners to fill his shoes. 
Among them are junior All­
American John Coyle and

), 
I· 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 


The Notre Dame women's cross-country team, coming off a strong third-place finish at the National Catholics meet last weekend, runs at the Notre Dame Invitational today at 3 p.m. 
The meet showcases some of the top Midwestern teams, as well as excellent teams from throughout the country. 

The Irish expect to challenge Eastern Michigan for the top spot this weekend, after finish­I ing behind national power­
i 

houses Providence and Boston College last week. 
"Eastern Michigan is the team to look out for," said freshman sophomore All-American Mike McWilliams. McWilliams fin­ished third in last week's National Catholic Meet while Coyle crossed the finish line in ninth place. Both posted strong times in the event despite dis­appointing finishes. 

Also looking to run well for Notre Dame are senior captain Pat Kearns, senior Kevin Keegan, junior Nick Radkewich who posted a personal best at the National Catholics, and freshmen John Cowan and Nate Ruder. 
Running in the Gold division for the Irish will be seniors Mike Drake and Shawn 
Stefanie Jensen. 
"I think we have a pretty good chance of winning it," said Emily Husted, also a freshmen. 
Last week the Irish finished four runners in the top 16, and they hope to improve on that feat this weekend. 
"We want to do that again this week," stated Husted. "But in­stead of having just four, we want five or six up there." 
Jensen, who finished 14th last week, says the Irish have to work on running together in the race. 
"We want our seven runners in a pack," said Jensen. "That could intimidate the other run­ners." 
Husted says how well the Irish 

run in the second of the three Schneider, juniors J. T. Burke and Hugh Mundy, sophomores Tom Lillis and Jim Trautmann, and freshmen J. R. Meloro. 
Last year, Notre Dame won the team crown and they are looking to repeat the feat this year, but it won't be easy. 
"We need to tighten up the gap between the number one and number five runners," said Notre Dame coach Joe Piane. "Ideally, we'd like a 30 second gap. Our goal is to have some­one in contention to win." 
In the way of the Irish will be competitive teams from Eastern 
see RUNNERS/ page 16 

miles is going to be important. 
"Last week we got out good, but we spread apart during the second mile," said Husted. "It's going to be a key to winning." 
The team is excited about the possibility of winning their first meet of the year, especially on their home turf of the Burke Memorial. 
"I'm hoping we win the Invitational," said Jensen. "We have a good chance, but so does Eastern Michigan. We're going to have to work hard." 
The Irish will accept nothing less than a first place finish this weekend. 
"If everyone runs well," noted Husted, "we should be able to get top honors." 
Women's soccer· puts streak on line 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team puts its unbeaten streak on the line this weekend, hosting the Southern Illinois­Edwardsville Cougars at 4 p.m. today at Alumni Field. 
Sunday Notre Dame (6-0-2) travels to Milwaukee to take on the Wisconsin-Milwaukee Panthers on Sunday. 
The Irish are coming off Wednesday's rain-shortened 4-1 victory over Lewis University. 
"I think the fact that we only played 60 minutes might be a benefit for us," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "It en­abled us to save our legs for this weekend." 
The Cougars have ten return­ing starters from last season's 13-5-1 squad, and are currently ranked eighth nationally in the Division II poll. They are the type of team which is successful when they take advantage of the other teams mistakes. The Cougar attack is led by junior Melissa Emmenegger and freshman Jennifer Burton, who scored 110 goals in her prep career. Their experienced de­fense, which limited opponents to 0.93 goals per game in 1990, is anchored by senior goal­keeper Marilyn Kastner. 
"They have done very well against Division I competition, and are going to be a difficult team to beat," Petrucelli said of USIE. "They are going to try to score off of free kick situations and are very solid in back. We are going to have to finish our chances, and we must score early." 
On Sunday, the Irish will challenge Wisconsin-Milwaukee in an important Central Region contest. It will be Notre Dame's first road game since September 15 when they tied Vanderbilt, 3-3. 

"We've been· on the road be­fore, but this time we are going into some hostile territory," Petrucelli commented. "Fortunately, we have spent a lot of time on the road the last few years, and the freshman have played away from home in high school." 
The Panthers will be looking to avenge last year's 3-0 loss to the Irish. Both Erin Lambo and Nicole Schmidt, their lead­ing scorers in 1990, have re­turned. ·Meridith Ammons is currently leading the team in goals. One major change' for Wisconsin-Milwaukee is their new head coach, Laura Moynihan, a Marquette gradu­ate who has been coaching in the Milwaukee area for 14 years. 
Petrucelli feels that this is an important game for two rea­sons. It is a Central Region game and a road game, both of which he feels are keys to be­coming a top-notch team. 
'NO Saturday' merely Irish hype-a-than ? 
Our civilization faces the·-------­..Notre. Dame Saturday" is the result of a deal threat of total eradication. between NBC and Notre Dame, whereby NBC 
America's most sacred, gained exclusive rights to broadcast all of the most glorious football Fighting Irish's home games (and syndicate school has joined with one most of the away games) for the next several of America's greediest, years, having paid the university approximately most powerful companies to $38 million. beget a hideous Disgusted yet? It gets worse. abomination. This beast, al­One Saturday a couple of weeks ago I was lowed to run free, would Tyson Vaughan back home in New Orleans (Who Dat-4-0!), destroy us all. Already it . car-less and bored. I wanted to see some creeps into our living, Stanford Da1ly college football, so I scanned the channels. I rooms, corrupting our caught the debut of "Notre Dame Saturday." Oh, children. joy. 
And on Oct. 5, Stanford's football team will NBC brought in their heavy-hitters-all their take on this evil monstrosity. But even if the big-name sports broadcasters-to cover every Cardinal wins their battle, the war may have aspect of the game. Every aspect of the game as already been lost. it related to Notre Dame, that is, and Notre 
I am talking about "Notre Dame Saturday," of Dame only . course. 
see STANFORD/ page 16 

I (
. I 
I ·, 
' ' 
-. -···-...._. . 


GAME INFO 

THE GAME: Notre Dame {3-1] at Stanford (1-2}. 
TIME: 10:00 p.m. EST/South Bend time. 8:00p.m. PDT/Palo Alto time. 
TV & RADIO: ESPN {Sean McDonough, Criag James] will televise the game live to a national cable audience. Host Creative Communications {Jim Henderson, Paul Hornung] will replay the game on numerous syndicated SportsChannel stations, including WNDU-1V in South Bend {12:30 a.m. EST Monday} and SportsChannel Chicago {8 a.m. EST Sunday] . The Mutual Radio Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna} will broadcast the game to 280 stations across the country, including AM­1490 and AM-960 in South Bend and WMAQ-AM in Chicago. 
TICKETS: Stanford Stadium, which ,., holds 86,019, is sold out. 
I 

RANKINGS: Notre Dame: NCSW 
7th {tied with Michigan]; AP 8th. 
Stanford: NCSW unranked; AP 
unranked. 

THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads 5-2. 
The series was restarted three years ago, with the last game previous to 
1989 played in 1964. The two teams are scheduled to meet every year {except for 1995 and 1996} until 2006. In 1925, the Four Horsemen made their final appearance in a 27­
10 Notre Dame win over Stanford in the Rose Bowl. 

STANFORD 
WASHINGTON 
at Arizona 
COLORADO 
NOTRE DAME 
CORNELL 
at Southam Cal 
OREGON STATE 
at Oregon 
UCLA ( 

at Washington State (3CALIFORNIA ,,.......,.,,,,,...~ 
•
I 


Jurkovic is reigning king of the trenches 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 

Mirko Jurkovic didn't know what 
position he would be playing when he 
came to Notre Dame three years ago. 
Three years later, some Notre Dame 
football fans still don't know what 
position he plays, but that doesn't 
bother him. He's more concerned that 
the opposition recognizes him. 
It's not the most difficult thing to do. 
A 6-4, 289 lb. senior from Calumet 
City, Ill., Jurkovic fills the role of 
offensive guard for an Irish offensive 
line that dominated Purdue's 
defensive front last week to the tune 
of 267 net yards rushing. 
Attaining his current starting 
position came in a roundabout way for 
Jurkovic. He entered his freshman 
campaign as a defensive tackle, taking 
advantage of the chance to play when 
injuries to Tom Gorman and John 
Foley forced some defensive 
readjustments. 

"I didn't know if I'd be playing 
offense or defense," Jurkovic said. 
''Even when I got here I switrhed back 
and fourth a couple of times." 
Working behind Boo Williams at left tackle throughout the season, Jurkovic earned enough playing time {48:42 with six tackles in a backup role) to garner what few freshmen defenders could-a monogram. Arnold Ale, who transferred to UCLA following the National Championship season, also won a letter in his only season. 
But the following spring, Jurkovic made his first move to offensive line. An experienced offensive line essentially had a "No Help Wanted" sign attached to it. No opportunities arose for a starting spot, so like many Notre Dame sophomores and freshman, Jurkovic had to play the waiting game-this time behind senior Tim Grunhard at right guard. While he waited, he learned from his predecessors. 
"I really looked up to Timmy Ryan [now playing for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers]," commented Jurkovic. "He was a quite leader and a great player. I learned a lot from him-he's quite the Catholic guy and I'd just like to model myself after him, especially ofT the field." 
While Jurkovic may be shooting par on his attempt to be like Tim off the field, his on-field performance has also reached All-America status. After logging over 69 minutes in 12 games during his sophomore year, he quickly established himself as the man to beat at one of the guard spots in his third year. During that season, the Irish offense ranked 12th in the nation in rushing (250.3 yards per game), including a 316 yard outburst against Tennessee. 
Jurkovic, not the most svelte of lineman, thinks he could stand to improve in the weight room. 
"I started out my freshman year running a 5.2 in the 40 and benching 290, which was relatively weaker than 

the running backs," said Jurkovic. 
"Now I'm down to a five-second flat 
and a 385 bench. The speed is fine, 
but most lineman bench about 400, so 
I've still got some work to do there." 
Don't go making any bets that he'll reach that 400 mark anytime soon, though, because work and Jurkovic just don't seem to be a compatible duo. 
''I'm not one to go out and have a good time at practice," said Jurkovic. "I guess you could say I'm a Saturday­type of guy. If I could work one day a week I'd do it, but they just don't seem to allow that around here." 
A first-team pre-season All-America pick by Street & Smith's, Jurkovic doesn't limit his exploits to opposing defensive linemen. He can also take his act to the hoop. Or at least could. 
"I played shooting guard in high school, but my basketball career is pretty much all but over," said Jurkovic, who earned three basketball letters at Thornton Fractional North High School in Calumet City. "Anytime you have a chance to not use your legs, you don't use 'em." 
Such a fitness philosophy seems to limit one's option's for spending leisure time, but Jurkovic has found a sport that meets his standards-golf. 
But that includes walking. you say. 
"We go golfing in a cart a lot," said Jurkovic. 
If he gel<; his way, he'll have many 


Friday, October 4, 1991 
•

1r 

opportunities to swing the clubs in the 
future. 

"If everything works out and God gives me the chance, I'd like to end up in Tampa or somewhere else down south where I can just go out and play golf in my underwear," commented Jurkovic. 
Even if everything doesn't work out, Jurkovic has a strong family to support him. It's the most important part of his life. 
Jurkovic greatly respects his parents' Croatian identity. With the recent political turmoil involving Croatia's revolt against Yugoslavia, Mirko has even greater feelings towards his ancestry. 
"A lot people think there's really no difference," said Jurkovic. "But especially at this time with the problems they have over there, it's either one {Croatian) or the other (Yugoslavian)." 
A loss at Michigan provided Jurkovic with some problems of his own, the least of which was an intense week of practice for the offensive line. 
"We had a letdown against Michigan, which we'll never forget regardless of our accomplishments," commented Jurkovic. "No matter what good things we've done, we only remember the bad... 
It's an attitude that he leaves 'On the field. Off the field, Jurkovic seems to lean toward relishing the good. 
\.

Irish Football '91 
Friday, October 4, 1991 
Where has the defense gone? 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame meets Stanford in battle of the offenses 
Numerical Roster 
Name Pos Ht Wt

By ROLANDO De AGUIAR 
touchdowns on 12-14 passing. Sports Writer Though the Irish rushed for 

1 Bakich. Huntley ILB 6-3 210 44 Flanigan. Jim• ll8 6-2 243 2 6 7 yards against the 
2 Saddler.leShaneCB 5-11193 45 McDonald. o:· OL8 6·4 240 In its first four games, Notre Boilermakers, Culver's leader­
2 Lanigan. Craig FB 5-10 187 46 Ratigan.Brian•• ILB 6-5 226 
Dame has not found scoring to ship was missed, particularly on 
3 Mirer, Rick*" OB 6·2 215 47 Barich, Pete" ILB 6-1 225 be a problem. With the excep­the opening coin toss. 
4 Graham. Tracy DB 5-11 183 48 Farren, John ILB 5-11194 
tion of a 24-14 loss to Michigan, And although Culver's condi­
4 Poorman, George*• OS 6·1 191 49 Peterson, A: OlB 6-1 214 
the Irish have averaged nearly tion (after suffering an ankle 
5 Culver, Rodney••• TB 5-10.226 50 Stec, Greg DT 6-3 235 47 points per game. injury in practice) had signifi­
5 Lalli, Mike CB 5-11 200 51 Tyner, Stuart OG 6-5 268 
Neither has the Stanford cantly improved by last week­
6 Bettis, Jerome• FB 5-11 247 52 Holden. Germaine OLB 6-4 240 Cardinal's offense stumbled end, his recovery has since 
8 Johnson, Clint FL 5-8 179 54 Goheen, Justin ILB 6-3 220 
early. In beginning their season slowed. 
9 Burris, Jeff* FS 6-0 194 .55 Lytle, Dean OLB 6-3 221 
1-2, the Cardinal has nonethe­"Right now, Rodney is a long 
10 Jarrell. Adrian• FL 6-0 194 56 Gibson, Ottver OLB 6-3 228 
less averaged 384 yards per way from being ready," said 
11 lozano, Rick TB 5-1 0 189 57 Mannelly, B. DT 6-4 279Glyn Milburn 
game, including 485 total yards Holtz. 
12 Failla, Paul QB ,,,,,,,,,~~~''"'''·~~ Nau, Jeremy ILB 6-4 225
against defending national said Holtz. "You can't tell from Tony Brooks ably filled the 
12 5"9.\JI®:~.J!&On Lance..C6-2 260 champion Colorado. one week to the next, but it was void left by Culver on Saturday, 
13 61 212This weekend's game nice to see us get good pressure rushing for 141 yards. 
13 lnh4iJiili'iliii:{tl l~.ill~i!l~::~:~~:~'~l·~~~:!~~~ri.l~~c.,~ ;·
promises to be another offen­on him." The Irish offensive line,sive showcase, as high-octane Bryant Young and Eric Jones meanwhile, continues to per­offenses face suspect defenses led a defensive line that forced form well, protecting Mirer and in Palo Alto. two fumbles and made four making big hoJes for Brooks and 
Stanford quarterback Jason sacks of Purdue quarterback fullback Jerome Bettis. Palumbis victimized an inexpe­Eric Hunter. 
At West Lafayette, Lake 
rienced Irish secondary in last However, Holtz does not see 
Dawson had the best game of 
season's matchup, passing for the Irish getting to Palumbis 
his blossoming career, catching
256 yards, including a 15-17 often Saturday night. 
six first-half passes for 81 
showing in the second half. The "You are not going to sack 
yards. The rest of the Irish re­
senior led the Cardinal back 
him (Palumbis}," said Holtz. ceiving corps continues to reap
from a 24-7 second-quarter 
"You may rush him, but you're the benefits of Mirer's passing,deficit to a 36-31 win. not going to sack him. He's go­which is more frequent than
"Palumbis has been at quar­ing to dump the ball off, they're ever. terback forever," said Holtz. "I going to adjust the routes, and Stanford's defense, which has swear to garsh he's been there do a variety of other things." yielded 380 yards per game in 
a long time." The Irish secondary will need 1991, will need a spectacular 
24 Bergmann. JcfrdUUJ.fli[

Actually, Palumbis started to continue to improve if it is to showing to stop the Irish offen­
25 Moore, LaRon RS:$.t'A'

seven games for the Cardinal control the Stanford passing sive. 
26 Davis. Greg".... SS

his freshman season, but did attack. Holtz remains patient "As far as their defense is 
26 Marsh, Drew K 6-0 

not take a snap from center as a about his defense. concerned, they're a good de­28 Hentrich, Craig•• KIP 6"1sophomore. Last year, he re­
"We have a lot of problems, fensive football team," said 
29 Lane. Greg* CB 5·9 176 

turned to start all 11 Cardinal and we've solved a lot of prob­Holtz. "They're unorthodox as 
30 Smith, Nick•"' OLB 6-2 219

games, throwing for 2,579 lems," said Holtz. "We start, I all get out." 
31 DuBose, D.""ILB 6-2 234 

yards and 11 touchdowns. 
think, six sophomores on de­The stunting, blitzing Cardinal 
32 Clafi(, Willie" TS 5-11 177
Protecting Palumbis is an of­

fense. defense is led by junior outside 
32 Donahue, JamesllB &-2 209

fensive line whose workouts "And they {the Irish) are going linebackers Ron George and 
33 Covington. Jonn·Fs 6-1 202

register on many California 
to be a good defensive football Dave Garnett, both of whom 
33 Holllster, Chet r:s 6·2 166

Richter scales. team. They've come a long way, were honorable mention all­
34 Zellars, Ray AS 6-Q 203

"[Stanford has] the biggest but we still have a ways to go." Pac-1 0 in 1990. 
34 Meter, Brian CB 5-9 113

offensive line I have ever, ever 
The Stanford defensive line 35 Mihalko, Ryan..,.. FB 6-2 232
seen, I think," said Holtz. "That The Irish offense entered last returns two starters, Aaron 
36 Sample, Jeremy ILB 6-1 205

is no exaggeration." week's contest at Purdue with Rembisz and Estevan Avila, 
36 Fuentes, David FB 5-9 198
The immense Cardinal line is two big questions. "How is Rick from last year's unit. 

37 Davis, Travis RB 6-0 180

led by 6-7, 300-pound All­Mirer?" and "Can the offense The Cardinal lost all-Pac-10 
38 &lanna, Randy ILS 6-Q 224

American tackle Bob Whitfield. function without Rodney 
performer Kevin Scott to the 
39 Robinson, MarvinCB 5-9 173

Whitfield, a junior, has been Culver?'' 
NFL draft last June, and strong 
4!> Brooks, Tony"'** TB 6·.2 223

named as a first-team All­
Mirer appeared as healthy as safety Jimmy Klein to a knee 
41 Brooks, Reggie" TB 5-8 200

American in every preseason 
ever in leading the Irish, injury last spring. 
42 Becton. Lee RB 5-11 185

college football publication. 
throwing for 139 yards and two 
see MATCHUPS I page 4 
Whitfield is well-supported by senior Chris Dalman {6-4, 290) and juniors Brian Cassidy (6-5, 305), Steve Hoyem (6-8, 310} and Glen Cavanaugh (6-7, 295}. 
The last time the Irish faced a line the caliber of Stanford's, the Michigan Wolverines pounded Notre Dame for 233 yards rushing. 
Running the ball through the holes created by the Cardinal offensive line will be fullback Tommy Vardell, who scored four touchdowns in last season's game, and Heisman Trophy candidate Glyn Milburn. 
Milburn, a junior, rushed for 729 yards last season, but was stymied against the Irish, with seven carries for 23 yards. 
"He's a big game-breaker," said Holtz of Milburn. "In the kicking game, running out of the backfield, pass receiving, he'll make a lot of things hap­pen." 
Though the Cardinal lost All­American receiver Ed McCaffrey to graduation, the Irish coaching staff is wary of his successor, Chris Walsh. 
"He really is an exceptional, fine receiver," said Holtz. "He has 19 receptions thus far, and you can see why. Palumbis re­ally finds him on a consistent basis." 
Trying to stop the Cardinal attack will be an Irish defense which showed flashes of bril­liance in last weekend's 45-20 defeat of Purdue. 
"The biggest improvement we made was the ability to get some pressure on the passer," 

SE 
Tony Smith Ray Griggs 

Ll 


RCBWilliam Pollard 
Vaughn Bryant Josh Wright OLBJ Jl
l 

Tommy Knecht
,lllfi ~~Y Knapp 
Vince Otoupal
t"r 
Todd Norman 
FS 
RT
~:onTaylor 
Seyon Albert Tyler Batson

FB ~ TimRuddy 

TuanVan Le
Jerome Bettis 
Allen Gonzalez 

Ryan Mihalko 
tiL Jl 

Reggie Brooks 
RILB Kevin Puk 

Jl 
Tom Williams
~~McGuire 
Lanca Johnson

t'oal..l t"r 
TB Rick Mirer NT 

ss
Rodney Culver 

Paul Failla ..TG Jason Fisk 

John Lynch 
Willie Clark Kevin McDougal Mirko Jurkovic Aaron Rembisz 
Albert

Tony Brooks George Poorman Mark Zataveski 
Jl 

ULB

t. iL 
Coy 
Gibbs 
Jl 
Toby Notwood 

K ~ ~tinHall 
Craig Hentrictl ~ Jordan Halter 
LT LCB
tiL
p 

MikeJerich Darrien Gordon
FL

Craig Hentrich 
Oinny Hansen Gary TaylorJim Sexton 
Jl

~:~=-TE
Clint Johnson Derek Brown OLB lrv Snith Dave Garnett Ll 
t. iL Oscar McBride Becket Hinckley Jl 

Irish Football '91 
Friday, October 4, 1991 
Stanford 
Numerical Roster 
Name Pos Ht Wt 
50 Dalman, Chris C 6-4 290 51 Avila, Estevan DT 6~3 285 52 Norwood, Toby ILB 6..0 215 53 Bart-Piange, E.ILB EH.. 2t5 .. 54 PaUow,Rick C64 270 . 
. 55 Byers, Dan It,.& 6--1 231··.··· .......... 57 Criter, Kurt OLIHH.l21 0: · 58 Grable, Dave tl.£f 
Ja!JOr't~$-3 21 0 Hatlenltwbller 6-1 225ss6-4 195 
ni!l.._.r•c 5-11 200 

FS 5-11 195 QB 6-2 210 lS'S..oofor/1, S. QB 6-2 200 QB 6-0 195 20 . Fl 5-11 175 
•·· · 21 Q(;rdon, Darrien CB 6-1 188 
.22 Grery.prda.. Ozzie WR 5-9 165 . 238eny~ ..~6·3 210 
~: ~~~~:n~~ss-\~ !:5 
26 Lasley, J,J, RB f¥) 208 
When the Irish ran out of luck 
21 Martin. Wftllam OLe s-2 230 
28. Davis, Branyon WR p-1 170 29 George, Ron OLB 6-2 220 
Cardinal looks for third win of series, second in a row
30 Hinckley, BecketQLB.6-2 230  
31 Puk, Kevin ILB 6-:2 245, 32 Brockberg, John FE3 6-3 2-10 33 Roberts, sllery FB ~-l ·-·........~···· 34 Schultz, Sryan WR 5­· -t..,...:::.::•:•::;;:•••:: 35 Garnett, Kevin DB 5-tf on ·····•·•···•·•·•··•·· ..·• 36 WiUiams, Tom ILB 6-0 235. 37 Milts, Aaron PK6~0 175 38 Wittman. Billy DB 5<-11100 • 39 Buckley, Mike RS 6·1·195 40 Madsen, JoSh S 6·2 190 41 Henton. John S0.,2 t73 .···•···· .....,.,.......... . 42 Garnett, Dave OLB 6-1 220 f 43 Smith, Matt SS 6-4 195 44 VardeU, Tommy FS 6"3 235 \ 45 Wright, Josh CB 6-:2 180 .•­.......,..,.,.,.•.•.,....  By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor The pass fell through Derek Brown's outstretched hands and hit the turf as the clock expired. That is the way it ended in p:;~:::~f~~::~,iiJi~:jl. Notre Dame Stadiurn onr.a~rlm.,.ll:$"*• October 6, 1990, as the number1 j81~~ ~~~-ijt~:~g!I::::::::::::::j one ranked Irish ran out of luck fhOI'nDISOA.;(k and fell to the Stanford Cardinal. It was a game that Irish fans would like to forget. The Irish  quarter. But as Irish fans dreamt about how not to run up the score, the Cardinal mounted a comeback that started with a personal foul penalty on Chris Zorich. Zorich was assessed a con­troversial piling-on penaTty when quarterback Jason Palumbis slipped down. The penalty gave Stanford their second first down of the game. Seven plays later Tommy Vardell scored the first of his  offense looked very effective in the first half, even though the Irish were lacking the services. of Raghib ..Rocket" IsmaiL The momentum had swung in the direction of the Cardinal. Stanford scored first in the second half on another Vardell one yard scamper. This came off a failed fourth down conversion by the Irish. Notre Dame answered with an eighty yard scoring drive. The drive was capped by a one yard run by  
46 Klein. Jimmy FS 6-3 205 · 47 Brown, Hattw&IIILS 6·32!m~t:::::::::::.:> 48 Thomas. EricCB 5~10 187 49 Herring, Ed WR6-0 190 tt•I:t::>  were number one and headed toward another showdown with Miami. Everything looked golden under the dome. The Irish were at home and facing  four touchdowns on a one yard run. Stanford then went for two and converted, making it a much tighter 24-15 game just before halftime.  Rodney Culver, giving the Irish a 31-22 advantage_ Stanford, though, drive right back, as Palumbis hit Ed McCaffrey on a 43-yard pass.  
an unranked Stantord team and  The Irish had scored on two  Vardell cashed in, deja vu, from  
the 59,075 faithful that packed Rockne Stadium saw the Irish  Tony Smith catches, a one yard run by Rick Mirer, and a Craig  one yard out and the gap was narrowed to 31-29 as the third  
build a 24-7 lead in the second  Hentrich field goal. The Irish  quarter ended. •  



::: .. . ; . . 
WR 
Chris Walsh 
FCB
OLB

Mike Cook 

Rod Smilh
Devon McDonald 

: -: Marvin Robinson 
Oliver Gibson 
Shiwn Wooden

Ll 
J 1Gennaine H~ 

RE J1 
Eric Jones
,lllfij ~­
Dean Lytle
t~ Derroo~ 
SLB 
FS Demetrius DuBose Jeff Burris FB 
Brian Ratigan J. CovingtonTommy Vardell 
Chet Hollister


J iustinGoheen
Mark Hatzenbuhler 


J1 
~:,ior Bryant 
~Troy Ridgefy t ~ Tom Gayrxx .Ji~ 
~~.Cavanaugh
l.l 
l.l 

HB QB 

ss

Glyn Milbum Jason Palumbis ..RG Greg Davis 
J.J. Lasley Steve Stenstrom Chris Dalman 
MLB 
LeShane Saddler

Parker Bailey Pete Bereich Jim Aanigan
t.iL lJeremyNau J1 LE j 
K 
Bryant 
Young Aaron Mills Peter Rausch Josh Madsen Bernard Mannelly 

-M ~ 
BCB 
p 
Tom Carter
FL

Paul Stonehouse 
OLB Gtegl.ane

Josh Madsen 
John Pinckney Anthony Peterson Travis Davis 
David Calomese ..TE Ryan Wetnight K. McGill Turner Baur Nick Smilh 
J1 

l.l t.iL J1 


With six minutes left Stanford would mount what turned out to be the winning drive. Palumbis drove the Cardinal down the field, again finding McCaffrey for the big gainer. This time it was a 26-yard toss that McCaffrey brought down. Vardell, the one yard specialist, again crashed over from the one with 36 ticks left on the clock. 
Mirer got the ball at the Irish 30, with 31 seconds to work his magic. Mirer promptly hit Shawn Davis along the sideline for 26 yards. He then missed on a pass intended for Ray Griggs leaving 19 seconds left. Tony Brooks came open over the middle, and Mirer found him for a 21 yard gain. The Irish quickly called time out. 
But the Stanford defense rose to the occasion on the next play. Mirer found his receivers blan­
..

keted and had to heave the ball out of the end zone, leaving just six seconds to play. 
The final play turned out to be a heartbreaker for the Irish. After incredible plays at Michigan and Michigan State, the Irish ran out of luck. Mirer rolled left and spotted tight end -~ Derek Brown in the end zone. Mirer threw for Brown and Derek stretched out to meet the ball. 
The ball caromed otT Brown's hands and came to rest in the end zone grass. 
This was the second Notre 
see HISTORYI page 4 
Irish Football '91 
on the young season.
Matchups 

Despite these strengths. how­ever, the Cardinal are largelycontinued from page 2 
young and inexperienced on the 
Vaughn Bryant, however, who defensive side of the ball. was a flanker last season, has With the strengths of the of­produced at his new cornerback fensive squads, and the ques­position, while strong safety tions surrounding each defense, Albert Richardson has shown the fireworks will likely be punch, recovering two fumbles blazing this weekend at and catching one interception Stanford Stadium. 
•story 

category, but the Irish capital­
ized on Indian turnovers.
HI 

Horseman Elmer Layden led continued from page 3 the Irish, scoring three times 
times. Two of the scores came Dame loss in the history of the on interception returns (one for series. The Irish lead the series 78 yards and one for 70 yards). 5-2. The series dates back to Layden also had a tnree yaro 1925 when Notre Dame met run for a score. Stanford in the Rose Bowl. The other Notre Dame score Rockne took his 9-0 team, in-came on a fumbled punt that cl uding the famous Four the Irish returned 20 yards for Horseman, into Pasadena. ·1 ne the score. The Irish took the Stanford Indians outgained the Rose Bowl 27-10 and won their Irish in virtually every offensive first national championship. 
Future Notre Dame hedules 
1992 
Sept. 5-at Northwestern (Soldier Field) Sept. 12 • MICHIGAN Sept. 19 -at Michigan State 
Sept. 26 • PURDUE Oct. 3 • STANFORD Oct. 1 0 -at Pittsburgh 
Oct. 24 • BRIGHAM YOUNG Oct. 31 -at Navy Nov. 7 • BOSTON COLLEGE Nov. 14 • PENN STATE Nov. 28-at Southern Cal 
1993 Sept. 4 • NORTHWESTERN Sept. 11 -at Michigan Sept. 18 ·MICHIGAN STATE Sept. 25 -at Purdue Oct. 2 -at Stanford Oct. 9 ·PITTSBURGH Oct. 16 -at Brigham Young Oct. 23 • SOUTHERN CAL Oct. 30 -at Navy Nov. 13 • FLORIDA STATE Nov. 20 • BOSTON COLLEGE 
1994 
Sept. 3 -at Northwestern (Soldier Field) 
Sept. 10 ·MICHIGAN Sept. 17 -at Michigan State Sept. 24 • PURDUE 
Oct. 1 • STANFORD 
Oct. 8 -at Boston College Oct. 15 • BRIGHAM YOUNG Oct. 29 • NAVY Nov. 12 -at Florida State Nov. 19 • AIR FORCE Nov. 26 -at Southern Cal 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community predict the outcomes of the 



AI Lesar Fr. Robert 
week's major college football South Bend Griffin games. Records are compiled as Tribune Observer 
to how each person does 
35-23-2 Columnist
against the ·spread. Home 
34-24-2 
teams are in CAPS. 

Last week's guest: 8-5-2 
FSU 17 over Syracuse Orangemen Seminoles MIAMI 37 over Okla. St. 
Hurricanes Hurricanes 
WASH. 26 over Arizona 

Huskies Huskies Okla 17 over IOWA STATE Sooners Sooners Clemson 6.5 over GEORGIA Bulldogs Bulldogs 
IOWA 1 over Michigan Wolverines Wolverines Baylor 1 over HOUSTON Bears Cougars Penn St. 23 over TEMPLE Nittany Lions Nittany Lions 
Michigan slips, Washington 
climbs to third 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 

Florida State's convincing 51-31 victory over Michigan 
made  the  Seminoles  the  
unanimous  choice  as  the  
number  one  team  in  the  

country in this week's National Collegiate Sportswriters' Poll. 
Florida State garnered all 30 first-place votes to beat out second-ranked Miami, 34-10 winners at Tulsa. The Wolverines, last week's number two, fell into a seventh-place tie with Notre Dame. 
Washington moved up one spot to third with its 56-3 thrashing of Kansas State, while Tennessee vaulted from sixth to fourth with its 30-21 victory over 15th-ranked Auburn. Oklahoma nosed out Clemson for the fifth spot. 
Iowa and Penn State flip­flopped positions to round out the top 10. The Hawkeyes trounced Northern Illinois 58­7, while the Nittany Lions struggled to defeat Boston College at home 28-21. 
CARDINALS TO WATCH 


Dennis Green Jason Palumbis 

In his third season at Despite sitting out the 1989 Stanford, Green has led the season, he is already the most Cardinal to a 9-16 record. The efficient passer in Stanford native of Harrisburg, Penn., also history. Palumbis hopes to join served four years as a Cardinal the ranks of ex-Stanford greats assistant coach. As a John Elway and Jim Plunkett. sophomore at the University of This year. Palumbis 60-108 for Iowa, Green rushed for 17 5 629 yards, no touchdowns and yards against Texas Christian, three interceptions. Last year, one of the top performances in Palumbis went 26-34 for 256 Hawkeye history. yards, no touchdowns and no 
interceptions against Notre 
Dame. 


Dave  Rich Kurz  Dave  
Dieteman  Associate  McMahon  
Sports Editor  Sports Editor  Associate  
32-26-2  31-27-2  Sports Editor  
30-28-2  
Seminoles  Orang em en  Orangemen  
Cowboys  Hurricanes  Hurricanes  
Huskies  Huskies  Huskies  
Sooners  Sooners  Sooners  
Tigers  Tigers  Bulldogs  
Wolverines  Wolverines  Wolverines  
Bears  Bears  Bears  
Nittany Lions  Owls  Nittany Lions  



Tommy Vardell 

In his career, the fifth-year senior has rushed for 705 yards and 17 touchdowns. The native of El Cajon, Cal., is not only a capable runner, but also a competent receiver and blocker. Vardell scored four touchdowns against Notre Dame last year, and has rushed 59 times for 273 yards this year. He has also scored six touchdowns, with his longest run a 48-yard scamper against Arizona. 

Anthony King Rene Ferran 
Assistant Sports Associate Editor Sports Editor 30-28-2 28-30-2 
::;;; 
Orangemen Seminoles Cowboys Cowboys Huskies Huskies Sooners Sooners Bulldogs Tigers Wolverines Hawkeyes Bears Bears Nittany Lions Nittany Lions 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 





Florida 21 over LSU OHIO ST. 23 over Wisconsin AUBURN 12.5 overS. Miss PITI 12 over Maryland UCLA 4.5 over California Ga Tech 2.5 over NC STATE  Gators Buckeyes War Eagles Panthers Golden Bears Wolfpack Irish  Fighting Tigers Buckeyes War Eagles Panthers Bruins Wolfpack Irish  Gators Badgers War Eagles Panthers Golden Bears Yellow Jackets Irish  Gators Buckeyes War Eagles Terrapins Golden Bears Wolfpack Irish  Gators Badgers Tigers Panthers Bruins Yelllow Jackets Irish  Fighting Tigers Buckeyes Golden Eagles Panthers Bruins Yellow Jackets Irish  Fighting Tigers Buckeyes War Eagles Panthers Golden Bears Wolfpack Irish  
Notre Dame 9.5 over STNFD  






