
THURSDAY I JANUARY 24, 1991 VOL. XXIII NO. 78 
• · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Lithuanian press seized 

·~ ...•;:"'~ 
'~-~ 

AP Photo An F-15 warplane flies by a minaret near Adana, Turkey, on its way to lncirlik NATO airbase. Turkey is the only NATO country bordering Iraq. 
African nations want UN meeting 

UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Fivll North African Arab na­tions on Wndrwsday called for an urgPnt rnenting of the Secu­rity Couneil to debate the Per­sian c;ulf war. 
Four pPrmarwnt eouncil nw.mbnrs -thn United States, Britain, France and Soviet Union -have been lighting to prevent a round) meeting un­lBss Iraqi President Saddam llussnin agrees to withdraw his troops from Kuwait and restore the emiratn's government. 
It was unelear whether the proposal by Morocco, Libya, Tunisia. Mauritania and Algeria -not members of the 15­member couneil -would re­ceive enough support within the council for a meeting to be callnd. 
Any nation can call for the council to meet in private, but it takes nine of the 15 votes to placB an item, such as a resolu­tion or a non-binding state­mnnt, on its public agenda. In practice, when the couneil is dt~eply divided on an issue, as it is on the war, it may meet ip private to discuss it but almost never moves on to a divisive publie session. 
Yemen's ambassador. Abdalla Saleh al-Ashtal, said he believed the eouncil president would call a meeting Thursday. Yemen is the only Arab member of the council. 
The five North African coun­tries, which call ttJemselves the 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
SMC prof. protests I page 7 Gulf war future I page 6 
Arab Maghreb Union, want the Security Council to declare a cease-fire so that Saddam can withdraw his troops in safety from Kuwait. The Maghreb na­tions would then send in an Arab peacekeeping force to re­place them. 
On Monday, Morocco's King Hassan II wrote to Saddam asking for a signal that Iraq would be willing to withdraw its troops. There has been no response to the appeal. Also Monday, Saddam rejected a similar proposal by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. 
U.N. diplomats contend that a variety of proposals for a cease­lire in the gulf war seem to be doomed because they depend on Iraq's readiness to withdraw from Kuwait. Saddam has shown no sign of leaving the emirate since the invasion Aug. 2. 
VILNIUS, U.S.S.R. (AP) -So­viet soldiers seized the central paper and dye warehouse in the Lithuanian capital Wednesday, despite a pledge by President Mikhail Gorbachev to restore peace in the Baltic republics. 
"This is simply an attempt to hamper the press in Lithuania and certainly will increase the tension," Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis told a news conference. 
Landsbergis said a telegram, which had been approved by the republic's parliament, was sent to Gorbachev saying the Soviet leader should order the withdrawal of all Soviet troops occupying buildings in Lithuania. 
Gorbachev told the nation Tuesday that his main task was to achieve calm in the Baltics. But he also called on the re­publics to abide by the Soviet constitution. 
The Lithuanian parliament's press office said two civilians who claimed to represent the 

Currency crackdown I page 5 
Lithuanian Communist Party announced they were taking control when they arrived at the warehouse with soldiers at 1 p.m. Wednesday. 
About 20 Interior Ministry soldiers with automatic weapons drove up in five jeeps and took up positions through­out the warehouse. 
There were just a few work­ers in the warehouse, who of­fered no resistance, said Lithuanian government spokesman Audrius Azubalis. 
He said the building had about 37 tons of paper inside, but added that the seizure was unlikely to have a serious effect on news because most indepen­dent publications have their own supplies. 
The Soviet military already controls Press House, the main printing plant in Vilnius. A unit of the so-called "black beret" troops of the Soviet Interior Ministry last weekend seized a similar plant in the Latvian capital, Higa. 
Nikolai Gribanov, a member of the Lithuanian Communist Party's Central Committee, later said the armed forces of the Soviet Interior Ministry were carrying out a resolution of the Soviet Council of Minis­ters on the protection of Com­munist Party property. 
The Soviet military has made similar moves at several other buildings in Lithuania and the neighboring Baltic republic of Latvia, which along with Esto­nia seek independence from Moscow. On Jan. 13, a Kremlin attack on Lithuania's broadcast center left 14 pHople dead and injured hundreds. 
In Latvia, six people have been slain since last week in Soviet attacks. 
Western governments, preoc­cupied with war in the Persian Gulf, have found time to criti­cize Gorbachev's actions in the Baltics. 



Utah passes anti-abortion law 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) -The Utah Senate on Wednesday passed a tough anti-abortion bill that the governor promises to sign despite a legal battle promised by abortion rights advocates. 
The Senate voted 23-5 in fa­vor of the bill, which would outlaw most abortions in Utah. The legislation goes to the House Health Committee on Thursday and the full House probably by Friday. 
The bill was expected to win House passage. Seventy percent of Utah residents and 90 per­cent of the 104 state lawmak­ers belong to the Mormon Church, which considers abor­tion a grievous sin except in the most dire medical. circum­stances. 
Majority Whip Lane Beattie said the bill "has a great deal of interest to the unborn." 
"At what time does the un­born child have rights?" he 

asked. 
But Sen. Karen Shepherd, one of the five dissenting Democrats in the Republican­dominated Senate, said the law would cost the state millions of dollars. 
"I know many of you feel no cost is too great," she said. "But it is a process that will be out of our control very quickly. I fear Utah will pay in terms of the Olympics, tourism and con­ventions and in human lives and suffering." 
If the measure passes, Utah would likely become the first state this year to outlaw most elective abortions. 
Gov. Norm Bangerter con­firmed in a letter to Republican sponsor LeRay McAllister, who was absent for Wednesday's vote, that he will sign the bill immediately. 
"It's time to get this legisla­tion before the courts so we can receive some definitive in­formation as to what the state can do to more fully protect the sanctity and dignity of life," wrote Bangerter, a Republiean who will step down in 1992. 
Susanne Millsaps, executive director of the National Abor­tion Rights Action League's Utah chapter, said the bill's quick passage was "distressing but not surprising." 
That organization and other pro-choice groups plan a rally Sa_turday at the Capitol. 
On Tuesday, about 300 abor­tion opponents gathered in the Capitol Rotunda as part of a nationwide observance of the 18th anniversary of the Hoe vs. Wade decision. 
At the same time, the Utah chapter of the National Organi­zation for Women on Tuesday threatened to wage a letter­writing campaign against the state's bid for the Olympics. 


AP Photo 

Security check 

A security guard checks over a man with a metal detector at the gate to Tampa Stadium Tuesday as the media and others entered for Media Day. Tight security also required an x-ray device, left rear, for equipment and hand luggage. Tampa Satdium will play host to Super Bowl XXV on Sunday. 
---~-·-·------­
page 2 The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1991 
INSIDE COLUMN 

SUFR seeks to improve status of ethnic groups 
As an African---------­
American student, I feel it necessary to address the demands that Students United for Respect (SUFR) presented to the Uni­versity. These de­mands are valid ones 


and have been Shonda Wilson 
ignored by the 

University for far too Asst. Accent Editor long. A Racial Policy is definitely in demand at the University in light of several racial inci­dents that occurred last year. There was and still remains no procedure by which to handle such incidents. There also remains no excuse for such a policy not to be approved. Because a council was developed to devise such a policy, why has the policy not been approved for appearance in DuLac? Perhaps because it is not a priority project. The demand to have both students and the director of the Office of Minority Affair approve of an assistant director for the Office does not seem to be an unreasonable demand. The fact that the Office of Minority Affairs has already been promised two assistants and has yet to receive even one certainly shows a need for improvement. The demand for a multicultural center is simply a request for space that will allow minorities to gather in a social and cultural manner. This type of center already exists at other universities. The number of new buildings which are built each year are evidence that the University has the finances for such a center. If the University is sincerely committed to the needs of ethnic students, why (fan't it commit in a manner that goes beyond words? The state of the Ethnic Programs at this "great" university leaves much to be de­sired. When the majority of the Black stud­ies and Latin American studies classes are cross-listed with other majors, the validity of the Programs must be questioned. The number of African-American, His­panic, and Native American faculty on' this campus also shows the disregard that the University has for cultural diversity. The fact that only 8 of 800 faculty are of these ethnic groups (as compared to the 10% stu­dent minority rate of which the University boasts) shows a major discontinuity. The demand of increased funds for ethnic organizations also seems a: reasonable one in that it would reflect the University's commitment to minority concerns. Because several of the demands have al­ready been presented to the University and no timetables have been set, SUFR should be commended for setting their own. Perhaps now the demands will at least be addressed-and not placed on the back­burner or swept under the rug. It is about time that students stand up for their rights as adults at this university instead of ac­cepting its parent-like treatment. 


Ihe ObseJ:Ver_. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471  
Today's  Staff:  
News Christine Walsh  Sports Dave Dieteman  Systems Cesar Capella  
Frank Rivera  Brian Stalter  
Scoreboard  
Accent  Mark McGrath  Business  
Shonda Wilson  Colleen Gannon  
Paul Pearson  Production  
Lisa Eaton  Cheryl Mosher Christine Anderson  Graphics Patrick Midden  
Ad  Design  
Tony Paganelli Amy Eckert  Viewpoint Dave Certo  Circulation Chris Hanely  
Lu Medeiros  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Frrday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
r-------------------·-·----­
WEATHER 


Pressure
®© 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMs FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
--------------------··-···---­
OF INTEREST 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Junior Parents Weekend lector tryouts will be held today at 4 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. Call Greg at 283-3549. 
The Management Department Honesty Committee meeting will be held tonight at 6 p.m. to inves­tigate allegations of honor code violations during the fi­nal exam of MGT 240, section 4, for the Fall 1990 semester. All students that were registered in that section last semester are required to attend. 
COUNSELINE. a service offered by the University Counseling Center to the ND and SMC communities will be holding its spring organizational meeting tonight at 6:30 
p.m. in Room 300 of the University Counseling Center. 
Student body presidential or vice-presidential candidates must attend a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Sorin Room, LaFortune. Call 239-7668. 
The Coalition for Peace will hold a "Teach-In" on the Persian Gulf War at in Room 105 of the Science building at Saint Mary's. 
WoRLD 

Forensics experts have begun investigating the robbery and massacre of 15 men and women-virtually the entire adult population of this peasant town of bam­boo, mud and tin roofs outside the capital. Judge Jose Miguel Valdez, who arrived with a team to investigate, de­clined to speculate on who might be responsible for the slayings that occurred before dawn Tuesday. "I can only say it is an abominable crime," he said. About 20 chil­dren, most of them under 10, were orphaned by the mas­sacre and wandered about aimlessly in the dust between the homes or sat listlessly on split-bamboo benches while forensic specialists examined the bodies of their parents. There was no immediate indication as to who committed the murders in this town on a hill five miles north of San Salvador, or if there was a political motive in addition to the motive of robbery. 
Yesterday's high: 32 Yesterday's low: 12 Nation's high: 76 (Miami and Palm Beach Fla.) ' Nation's low: -22 (Caribou, Maine) 
Forecast: Partly cloudy and colder today with a chance for flurries. Highs near 20. Partly cloudy and cold tonight. Lows 5 to 10. 
Cloudy Friday with a 70 percent chance of snow. Highs in the lower 20s. 
©1991 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
An Activities Festival at the Center for Social Concerns will be held tonight from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. Over 40 service and social action groups will be represented. 
A esc Mexico Project meeting will be held tonight at 7:30 in the CSC. Volunteers with the three-week Maryknoll Program please attend to discuss fundraising and planning. Call Kathy Shannon at 277-9406 or Lauren Nathe at 273-1380. 
The Knights of Columbus will hold an open house tonight. A representative from the Ladies of Columbus will also be present. Call Joe Zadrozny at 239-7018 or Anthony Nichols at 283-3271. 
A F.A.S.T. meeting will be held on Sun., Jan. 27 at 1 
p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center auditorium. Schedules of upcoming events, shirts, sweatshirts and jackets will be available. 
A Standard First Aid course. which includes adult CPR, will be offered at the Student Health Center on Tues., Jan. 29, from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and Thurs. Jan. 31, 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. You must attend both sessions to receive certification. Call 239-7 497. 
leftist rebels bombed the Colombia's main oil pipeline Wednesday, causing about 15,000 barrels of crude petroleum to spill into local rivers, said the state­run oil company Ecopetrol. No casualties were reported. "The blast caused tremendous ecological damage to nearby rivers. It'll take Ecopetrol workers at least a month to clean this mess up," a company spokesman said in an interview. He said the oil contaminated thousands of acres of local rice farms. The 500-mile Cano Limon pipeline in northern Colombia was attacked by guerrillas of the pro-Cuban National Liberation Army, the Ecopetrol spokesman said. The rebel group has blasted th(l pipeline about 150-times since 1986. It says it is trying to force the government to nationalize Colombia's petroleum in­
dustry. 
ALMANAC On January 24: 

eln 1848: James Marshall found gold in Sutter's Mill in California. eln 1888: Ernst Heinkel, the builder of the first rocket-powered aircraft. was born. 
e·ln 1899: The rubber heel was patented by Humphrey O'Sullivan. eln 1935: The first beer in cans was sold. 
eln 1963: A cold wave killed 150 people as it swept across the United 
States. eln 1986: Voyager II flew past Uranus. 
INDIANA 

The state has requested a $43,ooo federal grant to help a law enforcement task force investigate a series of shotgun murder.s in northwest Indiana, Gov. Evan Bayh announced Wednesday. "These funds will be used to cover overhead expenses of this investigation -the costs of equipment, telephones and supplies -to make sure that the hunt for this killer succeeds," Bayh said in a news release. Seven shotgun slay­ings and several attempted murders have taken place in northwest Indiana since Oct. 30, 1990. Forty-five local, state and U.S. law enforcement officers have been assigned to work together on the case. Earlier this month, U.S. Attorney James Richmond advised the governor that funding to help support the investigation could be available under the Emergency Federal Law Enforcement Assistance Program. 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSE Index 180.16 

S&P Composite A 330.21 Lf 1.90 Dow Jones Industrials 2,619.06 {{ 15.84 
Precious Metals Gold {} $0.70 to $380.10/oz. 
Silver {} 1.1 ¢ to $4.00/oz. 
~~---~----~-------~ 
Thursday, January 24, 1991 The Observer 
Injured child 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, JAN. 21 
9:48 p.m. Security responded to a fire alarm in Keenan Hail. An electric fan had caught on lire but was extln· gulshed by the lime Security and the fire department arrived. 
10:42 p.m. A Howard Hail resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
TUESDAY, JAN. 22 
3:10a.m. Security ass1sted Uni· varsity Grounds Maintenance in re· moving cars from the 816 lot so that snow could be cleared from the lot. 
2:37 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported a suspicious person In the Stanford/Keenan chapel. Security questioned the subject. 
4:50 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re­ported two suspicious persons in the lobby of Grace Hall. Security ques­tioned the subjects. 
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 23 
8:27 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of his decal from his automobile while parlled on campus. 

Patient wins lawsuit against AIDS dentist 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -A woman believed to be one of the first patients to be infected with AIDS by a health­care worker has won a $1 mil­lion settlement against her den­tist's insurer. 
The settlement by CNA Insur­ance Co. Tuesday followed a report by the federal Centers for Disease Control last week that confirmed Kimberly Ber­galis as well as two other pa­tients probably contracted the AIDS virus while being treated by Dr. David Acer of Stuart. 
The CDC said genetic tests show Bergalis, 23, probably was infected by Acer while he removed her wisdom teeth in December 1987, either through blood-to-blood contact or be­cause dental tools were con­taminated. 
The Fort Pierce woman's at­torney, Bob Montgomery, al­leged that CNA should have known Acer had AIDS and barred him from doing surgery before issuing him the $1 mil­lion dental malpractice insur­ance policy. 
Dennis Vandenburg, a Jupiter attorney who represented CNA Insurance, would not comment on the settlement. 
Acer was a bisexual who treated an estimated 1,700 pa­tients after contracting the virus and came down with full­blown AI-DS months before op­erating on Bergalis, Mont­gomery said. 
He never told his patients he had the disease, and died in September of AIDS-related cancer. Days later, Bergalis de­cided to make her case public to prevent others from sharing her fate. 
Montgomery said the $1 mil­lion settlement was a small price to pay compared with the cost of Acer's carelessness. And Bergalis said when they filed the suit last October that she was not seeking the money for . herself. 
CHARITY-UNITY-FRATERNITY-PATRIOTISM 



Knights of Columbus 


Notre Dame Council #1477 ©jpcerru. IH1em1lli~ce 
Wednesday, January 23, 1991 Thursday, January 24, 1991 
7 pm-lOpm / 
Join tlie fargest Catliofic J"ratemaf Organization in tlie wor{a 
For more info: Joe Zadrozny 239-7018 Anthony Nichols 283-3271 
A Ladies ofColumbus representative will also be present 
o[~=============-===============-=-=-=---=-====~·~!c~
;:;; 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1991-92 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m., January 25, 1991. 
Further information is available from Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 




---------------------~-----------~ ­
The Observer 
page 4 Thursday, January 24, 1991 
Students mark Roe v. Wade Minor fires reported in 

By MONICA YANT 
Associate News Editor 
Forty-three Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students joined an estimated 25,000 anti-abortion­ists in Washington, D.C., Tues­day to mark the 18th anniver­sary of the Roe vs. Wade deci­sion legalizing abortion. 

The campus Right to Life group brought to the rally and march a 30-foot yellow banner reading: "Humans are persons too." The sign referr~d to the ­1973 Roe vs. Wade decision which stated that while fetuses are human, they are not legal persons and not entitled to rights granted in the Constitu­tion, said Maria Rhomberg, the group's president. 
The demonstrators were ad­dressed by President Bush, via a telephone hookup from the White House. Anti-abortion legislators, such as Senator Jesse Helms and Randall Terry, leader of Operation Rescue, 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 
"BIG, RICH, POWERFUL AND EXPLOSIVE. 
One of Sn»rst"M"S hc..·st films c:vc:r! 'Goodfdlas' is gn·at t"ntertainmc·nt." 
HI\ IIIII) 
"Siunning, hrillianl. frntut·Jllly hilariou~. Tht· pt.·rformt·r~ a~ hmhk""· '(;omfldJas' lkli\'lT~-" 
ll.l\i.l\11'1.11 '\1\\-.\\llt-. 
"'...''""'"~ 
.......~ ..... ~ ..............~ 

FRIDAY and SATURDAY 7:00,9:45 
were among those offer.ing en­couragement. 
The rally was held on the Mall near the capital, with the march ending at the steps of the Supreme Court. 
For a period of time, the steps of the Supreme Court were filled entirely by college students, chanting "Students are pro-life," according to Rhomberg. Representatives from Cornell, Pitt., M.I.T. and Georgetown were among those schools present. One Ohio school, Stubenville, cancelled classes for the day, sending over 350 students to the demonstration. 
Students were not the only demonstrators. Gays and Fem­inists for Life were just two of the organizations that joined the many church, city and state groups gathering. to protest le­galized abortion, according to Rhomberg. 
The anti-abortion events were, however, overshadowed 


by the war in the Gulf, she said. Attendance was down from last year's total of 75,000, in part due to fears of terrorist activi­ties. 
The ND group had originally planned to take two busloads of students, but that number was reduced by about one-half due to concern about the war, she said. 
Still, Rhomberg noted several connections between the mes­sage of the anti-abortionists and those concerned about the war. "The war was definitely not ignored, but incorporated into the theme of preserving life," she said. 
"Life is precious in the womb and in the Gulf," read one sign at the rally. 
The Notre Dame Right to Life group has an active member­ship of more than 100. The trip was organized by Cathy Olsen, senior, and Theresa Rice, a 

student. 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN BEING ON THE SENIOR MONTH COMMITTEE MUST SUBMIT A BRIEF APPLICATION BEFORE MIDNIGHT MONDAY [ 1\28] PLEASE INCLUDE; NAME ADDRESS PHONE# AREA OF INTEREST [ BASIC PROGRAMMING] BOOKLET PUBLICITY OR 
BUDGETING RETURN TO SENIOR CLASS OFFICE ON SECOND FLOOR OF LaFORTUNE; ANY QUESTIONS 
CALL COLLEEN [x 3785] OR DENNIS [233 5662] 
Keenan, Breen-Phillips 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
Two minor fires occurred in Notre Dame dormitories be­cause of students' failure to watch electrical appliances closely, according to Jack Bland, director of Fire Safety at Notre Dame. 
Monday night a resident of Keenan Hall reported a small fire in his room. Notre Dame Fire Department determined that an overheated fan caused the fire. Fifty dollars worth of damage was reported. 
In another incident early 

Wednesday morning, a fire was reported in Breen­Phillips Hall. A hot-pot filled with potpourri caused the flames, Bland said. Although there was not much fire damage, $500 dollars of smoke damage was cited. 
No injuries were reported in either incident. 
"Students must realize that irresponsible use of electrical appliances can easily lead to fire hazards. Anything with a heating element transfers heat that can eventually lead to a fire if the appliance is not carefully watched," Bland said. 
--------------, 
American Heart Association 

Thursday, January 24, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Wiping out muscular dystrophy Stanford _University 
Synth.etic gene a 'milestone' in treatment 
makes $500,000 error 

NEW YORK (AP) -Scientists have made a synthetic form of the gene linked to the most se­vere kind of muscular dystro­phy, a "milestone" step toward gnne therapy for the disease. 
The gene, made from mouse genntic matnrial. was shown to work in expnrimental cells. 
Scientists said the accom­plishment boosts prospects for treating Duchenne dystrophy, the most devastating and com­mon form, by supplying muscle cells with a functioning version of the gtme. Duchenne appears when people lack a functioning version. 
The work is presented in Thursday's issue of the British journal Nature by Cheng Chi Lee, C. Thomas Caskey and others at the Baylor College of Medicine and Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Houston. 
"It's a milestone," said genet­ics researcher Ronald Worton of the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and the University of Toronto. 
But creating the gene is still "a long way from putting it into a patient," cautioned Louis Kunkel of Children's Hospital in Boston, Harvard Medical School and the Hughes institute there. 
Both men said the gene also will help other studies of the disease. 
The synthetic gene, like its natural counterpart, tells cells how to make a protein called dystrophin. In Duchenne dys­trophy, lack of that protein makes muscles weaken and waste away. 
Duchenne usually appears between ages 3 and 5, striking boys almost exclusively. Pro­gressive weakness forces most patients to use wheelchairs by age 12. Few survive beyond their early 20s. 

The dystrophin gene was dis­covered by Kunkel and col­leagues several years ago. It is the largest known human gene, and its size had frustrated ef­forts to make copies of it, a process called cloning. 
Scientists will now insert the synthetic gene into mice that lack the natural gene, Lee said. If that corrects the defects caused by lack of the natural gene, "it will open up the possi­bility of gene therapy in hu­mans as a good possibility," he said. 
Perhaps the synthetic gene could be delivered to a patient's muscles, he said, or scientists might be able to improve an experimental treatment that is now in early studies in humans. 






LATEN HT OLYMPICS 
HAVE A BALL! 

A 0 A y 0 F 

WOMEN 

SATURDAY, JANUARY 26,. 1991 
Spon.~ored in1>an by 1he Year of\'YlNltcll, The Alil·e ·1:ully Endowmenl li1r 1he Fine and l'crfurming Ans, d11: l'n~ramof (,._·nd1.·r ~mhes 
9:1'>·10:00 
IU:IS·IOAS 
11 :00·12:00 
12:00·1:00 
anti The Friends ol"l111: Snill' i\h1SI.'UIU 
SCHEDULE Evcnb will b.. hd.l in 1he Ant>c.~lb..-q: ..1\udiuwi,..o, 
n.c Sno!C Muso:um of An, Univcr>ily ul ~ O.,n"' 
Lecture with slides 
"l,mges Q{Women he Art" 

Susan lltx.d, ;Lo;s1Sl:ull profes.'\tlf. an history, lndian;lllni\'\.'I"SII~' .11 Soulh Bend 
Chamber Music 

"Sontltafor Vtoltr~ afUIPttmo ;,A Miuo1;" 
lw Amy M.C. Bc:ach. Can;lyn l'lummer, associate profl."S.o;or,musk:. Univcrsily of No1re D-.tme: violin . William Cerny, prof<."SSSI; mu.~k:. Uni\1\.-rsity ol No«rc Dame, piano. 
Lecture with slides 

'11bmm~ tn the Media .ulliN~­
/\Y.1 Cullins, adjurKI in:;tnx.10f, c.'tll'tlmunk':llknl and llr.llre, llnivcrsil)' of Nu1rc I>Jinc. Jlilary A. Radner, a.'i.~Lo;tanc proiC:s.•;u.-, c.\lllllllllnK::uion :anc.l 1hc;urc, University of Nucre O;in-.c. 'Jcn:sa Ghilarducd, :L'i.>ist:uu prull"S.'i(... t.,\lnomk:s, Univcrsil)' of None D-.tmc. LUNCHIIfAK 
1:("1·2:50 
2:30·:\:00 3:00·4:30 
5:00·4:00 4:30·5:00 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Stan­ford University President Donald Kennedy said today he will remove about $500,000 from the school's bill to the federal government for indirect research costs. 
· His announcement came in the wake of disclosures that federal research funds had paid for flowers, refurbishing a grand piano and depreciation on a 72-foot yacht. 
He said Stanford was imple­menting a plan to re-examine and strengthen Stanford's ac­counting system, including the hiring of outside experts to make recommendations to a special advisory panel. 
"We do not flinch from strict accountability for public funds," said Kennedy. "It is entirely appropriate for Congress ahd the executive agencies to review the expenditures of public monies. 
"We expect this three-part initiative will put us on the swiftest path toward resolution of the questions that have been raised about accountability for indirect federal research costs at Stanford," he added. 
Kennedy sent an outline of the plan to Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., chairman of the Sub­committee on Oversight and Investigations of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, who had planned hearings on the subject. 
When Stanford's billings were uncovered late last year, the Office of Naval Research sent a five-member team to look into the school's billing practices. The office oversees federal research grants to Stanford. 
Stanford acknowledged it had erroneously charged the government for $184,000 in depreciation costs on the university-owned yacht, several boats and some athletic department equipment. 
Kennedy acknowledged the controversy over use of federal research funds for flowers, building a cedar­lined closet and refinishing a piano at the home he uses as ·university president. He said Stanford is withdrawing all general administration costs for operations of the horne claimed for the fiscal years since 1981. 

Soviets crack down on counterfeits, black market 
MOSCOW (AP) -Beginning today, Soviets must trade in their old large banknotes and are limited to $800 in with­drawals a month in a govern­ment effort to control counter­feiting, black marketeering and the money supply. 
The decree Tuesday by Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev says banknotes of 50 rubles or more will be exchanged for pa­per money of lower denomina­tions and new 50-and 100-ru­ble notes. 
Gorbachev said he took the action "in the interests of the overwhelming majority of the population, in order to step up the struggle against specula­tion, corruption, smuggling, counterfeiting, unearned in­comes and to normalize money circulation and the consumer market," Tass quoted the de­cree as saying. 
An hi h-penomination cash 

l':uu:l dis.:u~~ion 
"1'1u· S/llllllltlll r~{\Vomcu ill Oijj(•n•utl'it'lds" 
.·\ftc1 ginng hrid. dt.·~·'-TI! HHJii"\ of :lll'il' l"h". p.nu:lt'h wi!l discuss alw wider inll•lk:uions ol lht·ir fields in rt''l'k'll't· 111 quesl ious fromalw audience. 
l\rh1111 Swmik:, senior, Cc 11legt· of Ans and I ,·ut·rs, l'niversitv ul' Nu!rt· D:mll' ·krl':.:1 l'h.:IJ~'• ;assod:nc · ;'rofessor, L111· Sdu • 11. lluiv<.•rsil\· ul' N.nrc· l.l:!mt· .Jc::ml)ibhic.' ~'iiSI:IIll pn•kss1•r. ;~n, :11'1 hisl<ll'l', ;~nd dc·,ig11. ' llnivcrsiay ul' NtMre D::u1t· M:1rd1a SaW)'Cf, :L'i.~ist:un pr.1li:ssor, his1ory. 
llni\'\.'fSitl' of' Nucn: D:unc ))e:ulll:l Fr.tlll'CS, jut•rnalist, Till: Sou1h llcnd TribtuK' M:•n• Mt1Cilll'1', t.'oun.lin:uor ofJ>S)'I:hoi<!Jlicll serl'il'l'S, Omni 
cCncer for Wornc.·n:~ llcahh :and Medicine, Sou1h lknd Ellen Sll'<.'kcr, M.D., family llf:ll1 ire, Soueh Bend, h'll.liana 
COfFEE 

l'iccion and poetry rc..Wng 
Soni;a G. Gcrnes, 1mJ1'essur. English, llnin:rsi1y '~-Nc llfl' I >:aniC Julit' J·lcrri<.-1\ While, Smuh lknd ):ICquc:linc Brogan, ;lliS(x:i:arc pmti:ssor, English, 
Univcrsily ut Nocre D:·n~~: J.b;a IJcNisci:a, M.A., writing program, 
llnivcrsily of Nocrc D:!lllC Marci Sulak, MA, wri1ing J>rtll(1~111l,llniversily of No1re D.mlt' Valerie Frcic.llin<.·, admini'>!r:nive :L'i.'isl:ml, 
lJnin:r~ilv of Nucrc )):.nK· 
llh•~t~Uill tours hi~ehli~hl :ng in:ag1.'S of women l111~'1.'1 in1he alrium) 
Folk music and Ji•na Kim Uolfman, Molly MlJllll ;.mc.l Rosil' McCurmid;, Sut•rh lkncJ tolk:iinacrs 
not turned into authorities be­fore Saturday will be worthless, the decree said. 
The decree, announced after most businesses closed for the day, touched off some panic. Guests formed long lines to pay bills at the Hotel Litva in Vil­nius, Lithuania, as Soviets rushed to spend their big bills. 
Gorbachev said last fall he planned strong measures to absorb what economists call the "ruble overhang," that is, currency in circulation for which there are no goods to buy. Western economists have estimated that there are 300 billion excess rubles in circula­tion. 
The excess currency and dearth of goods has driven the black market exchange rate from 4 rubles to the dollar to 20 rubles to the dollar in the past 2 1/2 years. 
The average monthly Soviet wage is 267 rubles, according to recent government statistics. 
The decree could anger the millions of Soviets who hold most of their savings in cash at home, eschewing low bank in­terest rates. 
Many black marketeers and private businesses targeted by the decree have been buying imported cars, gold jewelry and other tangibles as a hedge against a currency reform. 
HELP WANTED 
I. Woold you l•o lo woltllor 
youiMII? . 
2. 
Woold you 1•o to HI your own houro? 

3. 
AIW you ull·motlvotod? 

4. 
An you obft of., onlrtp«Mul'? 


If you .,oworod YES to all of tho llbovo, 
you oroJuot tho po1Won wo'rolooldng Iori 
,.. .. Allltrlllft ....... c....,u...,. 
raenlllln, you wHl bo ~Woponolblo lor 
plldng advtrtlllng on bullotln boordl. 
You wllllloo havotho opportunity to worll 
on moltlotlng progromo lor oudl clonto 
11 Amorlc-. Expnoo, Fonl, and Booton 
Unlvo~WIIy, Thoro ... no ooloo Involved. 
Molly of ourropo olay with Ill long altor 
giWduollon. For mo~Winlormotlon, coli or 
w~to 111 II tho following add~Woo: 
AMERICAN PASSAGE NETWORK 
i.:i1litl''''~l·····:.· 
l11ato, WA 1111H1117 



OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Thursday, January 24, 1991
page 6 

Flash back to 1960s with war-related 'teach-ins' 
By CORINNE PAVLIS Saint Mary's Editor 
Tuesday's march in Washing­ton, D.C., is not the only exam­ple of Saint Mary's faculty get­ting involved in the planning and execution of anti-war demonstrations. 
Long time peace activist Peter Smith, a professor of Mathematics at the College, is also very active in voicing protest about the war. Smith is a member of the Coalition for Peace, a conglomeration of eight local peace groups, and has coordinated several "teach­ins" including a three-night series which ended at Notre Dame Wednesday and a one­night event scheduled to occur in Room 105 of the Saint Mary's Science Building tonight at 7 p.m. 
The "teach-in" is titled "Voices on the Middle East Con­flict: Varying Perspectives," and features four speakers. Religious studies Professor Joseph Incandela, KabUl Azar of the Arab-American Club, John Andrea who is an Iraqi citizen and Notre Dame stu­dent, will join philosophy Pro­fessor Ann Clark to discuss the crisis in an attempt to atune people to other perspectives. 
Each participant will speak for approximately 15 minutes. The commentaries will be fol­lowed by open discussion. Clark will provide an introduction in­cluding background informa­tion concerning the crisis. In­candela will conclude the pre­sentations with an outline of the distinctions necessary to adjudicate the morality of the war. Incandela, a Notre Dame graduattJ, will also touch upon just-war criteria as they apply to the crisis. All four speakers will offer differing opinions on relevant issues. 

William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College, supports such efforts to bring people to­gether and discuss the crisis. "The nature of the college envi­ronment is such that people have to have an opportunity to express their opiniol).s," said Hickey. He added: "I think that whether you are for our in­volvement in the Persian Gulf or against it, you should have the chance to discuss it." 
Hickey pointed out that many of the people involved with Wednesday's "teach-in" were present at the interfaith prayer service for peace which he him­self attended Monday. "Everyone was there together and the ultimate goal of every­one present was to achieve peace," stated Hickey, who hopes that such open forums 
.will help "to raise awareness of issues." 
Many members of the com­munity have been at Saint Mary's long enough to have seen such forums in the past concerning military aggression in other areas of the world. Hickey was at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College during the Vietnam War. He recalled class boycotts and demonstrations from two decades ago. 
Brother Bernard Donahoe, 

history department chairman, 
was also at Saint Mary's during 
the Vietnam era. The current 
actions are reminiscent for 
him. "Not that these two wars 
are similar, but this period is 
very nostalgic of the sixties." 
Donahoe said that he recalls various "teach-ins" concerning Vietnam but that as they "as often approved of the war as disapproved of it." 

Donahoe doubts that such ac­tivities really have an effect on student opinions. "I think stu­dents generally will make up their minds based on the merits of the war rather than on other people's opinions. Donahoe stressed that protest to this war will in no way be as strong as during the Vietnam era since a draft has not been implemented and in his opinion will not be necessary. 
"What we have here is a pro­fessional mercenary army that are hired to fight and do it vol­untarily. At universities like Ohio Sate there are protestors chanting 'hell no we wont go' just as they did during the six­ties ... well who asked them to?" 
Donahoe's colleague, Profes­sor Anthony Black, expressed strong thoughts concerning anti-war activities. "These peo­ple are professional protestors and protest anything that the United States is involved in," said Black. He added that "nobody takes these groups se­riously " and offered the 84 percent approval rating for our military intervention as evi­dence that "protestors repre­sent a microscopic few." 
Black conceded that the 13 years of protest involved with Vietnam was successful in bringing an end to the war but stresses that "unless they are able to protest for 13 years and if our troops fail in the desert for that time period they are not to be taken seriously." 
Professor Patrick Pierce of the Saint Mary's political science department agreed 


Sanctions not given a chance 
By ALICIA REALE News Writer 
The future of the Gulf War was discussed last night by Professor Alan Dowty, Govern­ment and Middle East special­ist, and Professor Robert Jo­hansen, senior faculty fellow of the Institute for International Peace Studies and Government. The forum was part of the Gulf War series titled: "Where Do We Go From Here?" 
Dowty said that the Middle East crisis could have been handled without military force. He said studies show 34 per­cent of enforced economic sanctions have been successful within one to two years; the embargo on Iraq, which was 20 times as powerful as the em­bargoes in the study would "bite by late spring or early summer." Iraq is very depen­dent on imports including even special materials essential for gasoline. 
"The U.S. government couldn't wait," said Dowty. "The deadline psychology was a bad mistake and we'll never know if sanctions would have worked." He added that it would be difficult now to return to sanctions. 
To end the war as quickly as possible, Dowty said, "The U.S. needs to make it clear our aim is limited." According to Dowty, we need to promise if Iraq withdraws we will discontinue attacks, withdraw foreign forces and address the criginal Iraqi issues concerning border disputes. 
Dowty said we need to show Hussein if this war continues to the end, Iraq will be responsible for legitimate reparations and war crimes trials for their actions against Kuwait and chemical warfare (if it should occur). 
"The U.S. has missed a chance to build a precedent in international law but we might be able to salvage this if we change our actions," concluded Dowty. 
Johansen had three major ideas of what we should do next. The first is to "put more weight on the notion -that war is the enemy than any particular group or leaders as the enemy." He said we are so focused on Hussein as an enemy we think if we get him out of the way our problems are solved. "It is difficult to use war as a tool for peace," Johansen said. 
The second idea is: "The good guys, bad guys posture is a bad picture." The U.S. aided Sad­dam in Iraq's war against Iran. The evils we face are in part a product of our own policy. 
Johansen said that Saddam is wrong in Kuwait yet "prudence 



175? 

suggests we give him face-sav­ing devices up to the cost of lives lost in war." 
Johansen's third idea was that a failure to empathize with 
East forced us to war. He warned, "If we want peace we must empathize with the en­emy." 
In summary, Johansen said, "Saddam Hussein is probably filled with great insecurities and when threatened will re­spond with greater threats." He said Saddam has an intense need for power and needs to keep his reputation as a cham­pion of Arabs intact. 
"It makes sense to end the conflict as soon as possible," Johansen said. The U.S. should hold a lower profile and not fo­cus on ostracizing enemies. "We need to understand them (Iraqis) and solve grievances," said Johansen. 
appy 2 Jst Birthday, Kathleen 
Love, Mom, Dad & John 
with Donahoe on the low imp'act · protest and demonstrations have on public opinion. "I don't get the sense that these groups are terribly effective in rallying public support," said Pierce. "There is a stronger sentiment to restrict the rights of Iraqi citizens in the U.S. than for withdrawal from the Middle East." 
Pierce noted that research on public opinion and approval ratings for presidents in gen­eral indicated an initial boost in support for the president as the 
Bomb Shows Its 'Smarts' 
Raids on Iraqi targets include the use of laser-guided "smart bombs." 
Bombsight view: Camera on plane is fixed on the target. The bomb, just released, steers itself to its target. 
Targets are marked by laser from the bomber. With computer guidance, the bomb can hit within one foot of the target. 
public enters the "rally around the flag" period. "But, if things don't go well, we will see a fall in approvaJ ratings below that of the trend preceding the conflict," said Pierce. It is dur­ing such a period of disap­proval that protests and demonstrations may have a greater effect on public opin­ion. 
Smith hopes in the long run to "raise enough people's con­sciousness that there will be a majority of the country that will oppose the war." 
[I] High toss ~ "Over-the-shoulder" toss 0 Bomb release point 

F-117 weapon options include: 
GBU-15 modular glide bomb 

Length:12'9" ~ Dia~eter: 18" J) · ~ We1ght: -.. 2,5131bs. · 
Source: Defense Dept, The Lore of Flight AP/J. Magness, R. Toro 


OPERATION DESERT STORM
Thursday, January 24, 1991 
a e 7 


SMC professor protests war in Wash., D.C. 
By CORINNE PAVLIS Saint Mary's Editor 
"Heligious leaders shall not be 
silenced in the course of this 
war," said Sister .Joan Chittister 
as she discussed the anti-war 
demonstration she planned and 
participated in on Tuesday in 
Washington. D.C. 
Chittister, who now teaches at Saint Mary's College, organized the demonstration which began at Saint Aloysius and ended at thn White I louse. 
Tlw idea for the demonstra­tion came from Pax Christi USA, the ollidal organization of tlw Catholie peaee movement. The Pax Christi Bo(lrd contacted Chittister and her colleague Sisler Mary Lou Kownueki. a Benedietine sb'ter at Saint Mary's College, to aid in planning a protest. 
The Pax Christi Board has been watehing the crisis dosely and mad1~ the decision that if tho situation deV!~lopPd into full seale war. a rnspons1~ of prayer and non-violnnl aetion would he appropriate. 
Thn organization's lirst major rnsponse to the hostilities came in the form of a prayer service and a demonstration of the desire for non-violent means for dealing with thn erisis. Bishop Gumbleton and Jim WallaeP, an Evangelist minister and leader of thn Sojournes eomrnunity in Washington were asked to join Chittister to lead tlw dPmonstration. 
Ttwsduy's dPrnonstration be­gan with a press eonfernnce at Saint Aloysius. Chittister said shP was surprisPd and pleased 
with the large media turn-out 
at the conference. The press 
eonference was followed by 
what Chittister described as a 
"long and serious prayer ser­
vice." 

Following the service the group began a march towards the Capitol. Upon arriving at Lafayette Park Chittister ad­dressed the group. Wallace also spoke to the participants. Chit­lister points this out as unique in that "the demonstration was planned by Pax Christi, a Catholic organization, but was in part ex11cuted by a leading member of the Sojournes com­munity which is basically evan­gelical in tradition." 
Also present Tuesday were 21 heads of religious communities as well as 39 representatives of other religious communities. 
The group then preceeded to picket and march around the White House for approximated 30 minutes. Chittister admits that some members of the protest remained at the White House to engage in "civil dis­obedience in order to register their concern about the gov­ernment's waging of the war." 
Chitlister explained the im­portance of registering these concerns and complaints im­mediately with the government. "Religious leaders shall not be sileneed. Chittister explained that "it took years for the chureh to speak out against the war in Vietnam." 
Shn added that it is important that this limn it will not take so long "for us to identify the philosophical. theological and moral concerns that our own 

Joan Chittister 
tradition brought us to in the face of Vietnam and the (resulting) carnage. We will not simply sit back as a silent and simpering church in the face of this kind of violence." 
As a result of their attempts to get these .sentiments across to the U.S. government, 62 par­ticipants in the demonstration were arrested for what Chittis­ter described as "kneeling on the sidewalk outside the gate of the White House while singing hymns and prating the Our Fa­ther. That is apparently now a felony in this country while it is not a felonious act to terrorize innocent civilians," added Chit­lister. 
The group was arrested by the Washington Park Police and charged with "demonstrating without a permit". Each was given a citation requiring a court appearance and indicat­ing a line of $50, according to a Washington Park Police spokesperson. 
Chittister returned to South 
Fewer blacks support Gulf war 
(API -A bla1~k Anwrican, polls show, is less likPiy than a whitP AmPrican to support the war in the Persian (iulf, but more likely to be fighting in it -a paradox that burdens the black community's response to Uw conflict. 
Tlw war's critics say an "economic draft" forced dis­proportional!' numbers of young blacks into the all-volun­teer military. Supporters point with pride to Army Gen. Colin Powell and the many other blaeks in the military. 
As a group. "black people are caught on the horns of a dilemma." says Andri1w Cooper, publisher of The City Sun, a black wnekly in N1~w York City. 
Blacks an~ leading protests in church and on eampus; many turrwd King Day ceremonies this year into peaee rallies. 
"Wn support the troops," said the Hev. Herbert Daughtry, a civil rights activist who at­tnnded a peace rally Monday at th11 United Nations. "That's why we want them home." 
Hecent polls indicate that slightly less than half of blacks support the decision to attack Iraq, compared to more than three-quarters of whites. And a USA Today poll found that only 21 percent of blacks said they were angered by anti-war protests, compared to 56 per­cent of whites. 
Although less than 13 percent of the U.S. population is black, blacks account for 21 percent of all U.S. military personnel in all branches. About a third of the Army forces in the Persian Gulf are black and almost half of U.S. servicewomen in the gulf are black. 
Anti-war blacks say these disproportionate ratios are the result of social and economic injustices at home that forced • blacks who wanted job skills or college funds to volunteer for the military. The war, they add, will eat up money and energy that could correct the condi­tions that forced blacks to enlist in the first place. 
They point to young blacks like Ricky Williams of Seattle, who joined the Army after high school and was trained as a medic. But when he returned home the best job he could lind was stocking shelves; he re-en­listed. He's now in the gulf re­gion. 
"Either way, it's a battle for black kids. If it's not in Saudi Arabia, it's here on the streets," said his father, .Johnnie Williams. 
Hicky Williams' re-enlistment may not have been a bad deci­sion. 


SUPER BOWL PAR,.Y 
SUttDfiY )fltt. 21. 1991 
5 pm-midnight Come and enjoy the big game on our wide screen T.V. Serving hot & cold hors d'hoeuvres, and various SPECIALS! 
(Sunday Singles Night will resume next week) 
1345 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend 
289-POLO 

Bend Wednesday and explained 
that much of what her group 
stands for is misunderstood. 
She stressed three main points 
and began by stating that the 
group "unequivocally rejects 
and condemns the Iraqi inva­
sion of Kuwait-there is no 
question about that. The action 
is immoral and everything else 
everyone says it is." 

She also feels strongly about 
supporting the American 
troops. "We support the Ameri­
can troops so much that we 
would like to see them come 
home to us physically and psy­
chologically whole." 

"The research out of the Vietnam war shows that there was one psychological impair­ment for every four of the physically wounded. This psy­chological impairment was caused by intensity," such as that which has existed these past seven days, said Chittister. 
The third problem Chittister sees in lighting this war is that it is an "anti-American war: one which is waged by us but is contrary to all of our own democratic principles." She cites that the American gov­ernment's failure to hear, ex­plore, discuss, or even commu­nicate thoroughly to the U.S. public what Iraq's grievances with Kuwait are, for example. 
The doctrine of "might making right" that is being created by this war, also troubles Chit­lister. "What we are basically saying is that if you are strong enough you don't have to talk to anyone; you ean just do what you want to do. Being right, does not in itself give a group mandate to destroy any­thing and everyone in its path." 
Chittister also sights that President Bush's justifications for the war are in some in­stances hypocritical. "We are living in a country that refuses to sign any treaties outlawing chemical weapons. In fact, Ge­orge Bush east the deciding vote against such a treaty while serving as a senator." Chittister points out that we use Iraq's possession of chemical weapons as an excuse for our own violence. 
Pointing out another contra­diction she asks: "Where were we when Iraq invaded Iran'? What would give Iraq a clue that we would not support Iraq's invasion of Kuwait as well when we are so inconsis­tent?" 
Chittister agrees with the many anti-war demonstrators who complain that we did not give our boycott and sanctions enough time to work. 
She is confused on why we left 200,000 troops in Europe for 40 years to contain the Soviet Union. "Will you tell me why we were too impatient to keep 200,000 troops in Saudi Arabia for live more months to allow the sanctions (which our government describes as tlw in­ternationally most effective that have ever existed) to have morn impact?" 

Jewish-American leaders go to Israel 
NEW YOHK (AP) -Leaders of American Jewish organiza­tions said Wednesday they will visit Israel this weekend to show their solidarity and support for the Israeli people as Iraqi Scud missiles target the country. 
More than 35 presidents and executives of Jewish groups will go on the trip, said Shoshana Cardin, chairwoman of the Con­ference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organiza­tions. , 
"We will be there to show solidarity and support for the people and government and to show how we care and to see for ourselves the trauma they are experiencing," she said. 
She would not give details of the group's travel plans out of fear of terrorist attack. 
"I feel that I have to be there for myself and for them, to let them know that they are 
. not alone, that the AmHrican peophl care about them. particularly the American Jewish community," said Seymour Reich, former president of the Conference of Presidents. 
Reich and Cardin said they were not afraid. 
"'Thoughts of personal injury have not crossed my mind. It's not that we're impervious to it," Reich said. "It's just that the need to be there is so overwhelming that it removes from consciousness the possible threat of danger." 
Heich's daughter, Jaime Amiram, her husband and their 6-month-old daughter livo in Tel Aviv.. But only his son-in-law, Avi Amiram, is there now. Amiram and her daughter were in the United States when war broke out. Their flight horne Tuesday was canceled. 





CAMPUS 
portsportsJ?ortsoortsport
ZOo/o-50% OtF All iterns in stock 
. including shoes, basketballs, volleyballs, soccerballs, tennis, racquetball, and squash rackets, hockey, Lacrosse, and field hockey sticks, swimming suits. 
*Team uniforms ordered in Januazy will be 20% off Corner of Edison Rd. & S.R. 23 (Next to Tracks Records) 273-9000 
Notre Dame Student Owned 
--~-----------~---~ ---------------------------------------~ 




Business 
page 8 

Long war may affect economy Consumer confidence will play key role 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
Business Writer 
With America's billions of dollars in monetary commit· ments and the possible disrup· tion of the world's oil produc· tion, the Gulf war has poten· tially large economic impacts in the U.S. 
Jaines Rakowski, professor of economics, discussed the eco­nomic problems and benefits that may result from the Gulf war. 
Because it basically diverts resources towards equipment that will be destroyed, Rakowski argued that war gen­erally is not good for the econ­omy. He stated that "a war can stimulate a recessionary econ­omy, but there are a lot of other ways to do that." 
Rakowski preferred to view the war from three different economic standpoints. 
Aggregate consumer demand could only be stimulated, he ar­gued, in a long war in which present military stockpiles need replacements. He said that "we are using equipment that has already been purchased, and it is not clear that they will re­place those items." 
In a longer war, the military would need to replace those materials already destroyed. 

r 
~ 
r 
,r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 



James Rakowski 

Rakowski noted that govern­ment spending for replace­ments would increase produc­tion in defense industries, lead­ing to greater employment and increased consumer demand. In a short war, the military might only use existing stockpiles of weapons. 
He said that increased gov­ernment spending for weapons would increase government debt, unless paid for with a new tax. He said, "The credit mar­kets are fairly slack right now ... so government borrowing would not excessively crowd out businesses seeking loans." 
Next, Rakowski noted the price of oil. The outbreak of war has sent oil prices plum­meting, for oil markets are temporarily satisfied that vast quantities of oil will not be de­stroyed in the war. If Saudi oil receives some damage from Iraqi forces, the price could go shooting up again, according to Rakowski. 
Oil prices directly effect the amount consumers can spend on other consumer goods. Rakowski feels that if oil prices remain around $20, consumer demand could pick up enough to pull the economy out of the present recession. 
Consumer confidence is the third area that Rakowski has grappled with since hostilities, began. "Confidence is difficult to assess,", Rakowski said, "and its effects on the economy even more difficult to determine." If the war goes well, he said, the average consumer might feel good about the state of the nation and express their good feelings by spending more. 
If the war is long, Rakowski does not foresee any negative impact on the economy. He said that "during the late 1960s, with the Vietnam war, our economy was fully extended. Now we have some ·excess ca­pacity, which government spending could utilize." 
If the war is short, Rakowski sees little impact on the econ­omy, except for the stabilization of the oil markets. 
Thursday, January 24, 1991 

Sale of gas masks up a§i:::'l:J:s.iJaresses for war 
(AP) -~-Wartime jitters in many patts of the country have touched off a run on gas masks, chemical suits, short· wave radios, bottled water and ~~~~r safeguard~,ag~~t
terrorist attack. '1"'; · ·t.c ~ 
An Army store clerk in F~rt Worth, Texas, likened the boom items to a raincoat: "Nobody wants it until it's raining," If that is the case, then Operation Desert Storm has unleashed a downpour, 
"P~6ple aren't buying one at a time, They're buying a dozen," said President Ed Sklar of Spytech.Inc., which has sold New Yorkers hundreds of gas masks and . chemical suits in recent 1weeks. _ 
Stor~~> were having a ~ard . time .:k~.eping up. Security companies. reported heightened interest in the,ir systems, map stores were running on empty. Even guns and ammunition were selling particularly briskly. 
~9ple are just ki;nq~f 
king," said Wallaee Co.(lway, who works at Oklahoma Army Surplus in Tulsa. "They think terrorists are going to attack with chemical weapons." 
Am the hottest items
I. . .. 
were gas masks like those worn by jumpy televis.ion reporters during Scud missile attacks in Saudi Arabia and Israel. They sell for anywhere from $19.,95 in Nashville, Tenn .. to $39 in Manhattan. 
"Yesterday, we had 65 masks at 10 a.m. when we opened, and they were gone by 11 a.m.," said Jeff Durbin of Surplus City in Berkley, Mich. Meanwhile, in Atlanta, a 'woman wanted to know where she could get one for her dog. 
Tracie Ewing of Rochester, N.Y., said she bought a mask for each member of her family of four because she's cautious by nature. "And I'm also a survivor," she said. ''This thing could get out of hand." 
Teenagers, too, were showing an interest in wartime protection, though they were decidedly more interested in desert chic. 
"It's the fashion. Everybody's got one," said Cliff Conrad, 37, who was checking ou:t the masks at St. Mary's Surplus Sales in Topeka, Kan. "I don't seriously think we'll be gassed. I'm just buying it as a fad." 
D ~l~D~Nl ~ODY ~~~~ID~Nly 0 u ~0 ORo· u..WANT TO RUN ~WD~Nl ~ODY VIC~ ~~~~ID~Nl MANDATORY INFORMATIONAl MEETING ON JANUARY 24, 7:00 PM IN THE SORIN ROOM (LAFORTUNE) QUESTIONS?? CALL 239-7668  



Viewpoint
Thursday, January 24, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth ·Bolger VIewpoint Editor .•............. Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..•••••••••••••••....Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ..•.........••.•••....... Eric Bailey OTS Director •••••••..•.••••....•. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ••••....Corinne Pavlis Controller............•......•... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the vtews of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 


LETTERS 
Nonviolent alternatives should be sought in Gulf crisis 
/)ear Hditor: First, as participating citizens 
As Christian students at a in civil society, we have looked Catholic University, we would to the Bush Administration to like to take some time to reflect demonstrate convincingly that upon the Persian Gulf Crisis in all alternatives to military light of our religious tradition. action were explored. Instead During a time such as this, of producing proof that when monumental decisions diplomacy was carried out in nntail large scale violence, all good faith and that military pHople must critically and cau­action was the last resort, we tiously analyze the behavior of have heard propaganda and world leaders, fellow citizens, rhetoric. The President has not and themselves in light of their responded adequately to the moral and spiritual tradition, healthy skepticism that all whatever that tradition may be. Americans need to have of their 
leaders. To proceed with blind 
The atrocities committed by faith in our leader would be to Saddam Hussein in Kuwait are defer to his judgement a moral indeed grave. Without question, dilemma for which we are all his annexation of a sovereign responsible. As Shakespeare nation is morally reprehensible noted: "Every subject's duty is by any standards and deserving the King's, but every subject's of a concerted response. Given soul is his own." Hussein's actions, Christians must discern carefully which Second, as Christians, we can response is appropriate. We look to religious leaders for have turned to a number of help in gauging the legitimacy sources that have helped us of using military force against solidify our decision to de­Iraq. Catholic leaders, such as nounce the response of the the U.S. Council of Bishops and United States and its Allies as Pope John Paul II, along with intolerable. Protestant leaders, such as 


Bush too checkered.in his actions and words 
/Jear Editor: were denied the support for 
In thn president's letter to privileges in their own country college students (The Observer, by their own leader. .Jan. 16) thnre was a sub-section nntitled "Black and White." But Let's not let George Bush be­how much credibility can we come an authority on the con­give to a president who vetoes a trasts between black and white, domestic "Black and White" because the contrasts in his Civil Rights Bill and then own past decisions are sicken­appeals to that contrast in for­ingly grey. eign affairs conflicts? And, in contrast, many of the same Sean B. Scanlon black and Hispanic soldiers that Off-campus will be dead in a few weeks Jan.21, 1991 
DOONESBURY 
United Church of Christ social and moral teachings. President Paul Sherry, have Third, as members of the na­condemned this use of force. tion with the most powerful and 
destructive weaponry, we have 

During a recent statement reflected personally and from the Vatican denouncing a prayerfully upon the Gospel and military resolution of the Gulf how it speaks to us about vio­Crisis, the Pope said, "War lence. Jesus' choice to renounce cannot be an instrument for violent aggression as a means solving problems between na­to settle injustice gives witness tions, and never will be." If it is to the hard choices we are indeed a Christian's concern to called to make as Christians. stay within the bounds of The decision does not come church guidance, we must at without cost and without per­least give significant thought secution. Jesus Christ, God and prayer to the spiritual made human, the ultimate em­leaders' reasoning and posi­bodiment of power, died tions. We must be cautious in humbly in popular disgrace on identifying ourselves as a cross. As such, he was not the Christian if we simply accept li­king the Jews were expecting. turgical tradition and disregard And it appears that he is not the model and leader to which our Administration turns for guidance. A commitment to nonviolent solutions among nations may appear idealistic and foolish, but in the Christian tradition, as Dorothy Day notes, "it is the folly of the Cross." 
•We challenge our government to discontinue the violence and resolve the crisis nonviolently. 
Tom Mustillo Brendan Judge John Maxwell Rosi Lozada Phil Wehby Brother Bonaventure Scully, 
C. F. X. Jan.22, 1991 

esc offers many opportunities for students to contribute to community 
Dear Editor: 
It is difficult at this time, when war looms over us, to feel comfortable in tliis academic haven. We all want to "do something." One of the hardest things about this situation is the uncertainty and confusion that we feel as we watch the conflagration in the Gulf. 
I would suggest that one way to wait is to make a commit­joy being visited, the homeless ment to reach out to people in welcome a bed and a meal, our local community who need handicapped people need the a hand. Even though we cannot stimulation of new friends and bring peace to our torn world, activities, illiterate adults need even though we are confused understanding tutors, troubled about the ethics of this war, we teens are looking for friends can help to relieve some of the and role models. All of these burden from people who are opportunities are available to our neighbors. you. You can make a contribu­
People in South Bend are tion to our community that will asking for our help. Children make a lasting difference. from disadvantaged homes On Thursday, Jan. 24, there need tutors, elderly people en-will be a Social Concerns Festival at the Center for Social Concerns from 7-10 p.m. Over forty groups and organizations will be represented there. Stop in and lind out where you can help. You will lind that an in­vestment of your time and skills will yield returns that are in­valuable. 

Kathy Royer Coordinator ofService/Social Groups Jan. 21, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
... ANO Y&T H/3R/3 YOU ARC,
MAJ/0, WHAT'S 7He 5TOf?ff{f;R£?
PeTeR, I'M HeRe AT KING 
fAR f!<OM THe fRONT, SIPPING
50WI&R5 fROM A /?OZ£/11
KHAU{) t:aJNTT?YauB, TAU<//1¥3 
AS ARE AUAH,HtU. 
'When you have a hammer,
A fROSTY /3eV/3/(/J(3C BY 7Hl3
C:OUNTR/!E, INCW/?ING ff3UaAJ
7D MAJ/f)Af-KA/<1, ONe OFMANY 
YOU. AUAH I'II1MIORJ<JN6,
FWl-Of AN t;raU$1V/3 /ilHif!KY,rjJ/Ef/1
YOUNG ARABIAN MeN UffTH 
Af?A8 NATIONS, ARe OU7' IN 
IS GcN&ROUS. BU()l7f! 
everything else looks like a nail.' 
TH~ l?e5E!I?T, PUTTING 7H!If(
NO IN'T'/31?£ST IN t::JI3FeNC'ING 
THt:IROWN ON7He \ I. \ 
H()W;IANOl UN8... 
I 
E. Haavi Morreim 

-

-. --­
Thursday, January 24, 1991 
By KATIE O'GARA 
Accent Writer 

In keeping with the Year of the Woman, there have been many activities this year to provoke a greater awareness of women's issues, problems, and roles in society. This Saturday, there is a very special day planned for the "I am a woman writer. I write about celebration of women. day to day experiences as a woman, but 
A day of presentations dealing with I prefer to be a humanist rather than a women will take place in the Annenberg feminist. I don't like the term 'feminist.' Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Part of I think it separates men and women. I this day is dedicated to women's think that privileging feminism is just as contribution to literature. bad as privileging the phallocentric 
Sonia Gernes, a professor of English at point of view," Sulak said. Notre Dame, is in charge of the creative Part of Sulak's preientation will deal writing presentations, which will take with the influences of growing up on a place from 3:00 to 4:30 p.m. According rice farm. to Gernes, six or seven women, who Part of the diversity of the day stems were chosen "to represent a range of from having women from different people in the South Bend community careers participate. Valerie Friedline, an and Notre Dame," will be reading fiction administrative assistant at the graduate and poetry. school, She will share five or six of her 
"We represent women at various poems about female family members, stages of life, which enables younger including one about a female cat. listeners to catch a glimpse of what lies "My poems celebrate the value of ahead. We are dealing with an art. form various women. They are a gift to me that allows people to share experiences and I share them with other people. It is more deeply than they normally do," always fun to go to readings and hear Gernes said. how people approach the reality they 
Gernes' poetry includes focuses on see. It is very energizing to hear how women in the family, such as mothers other people approach life. Someone and grandmothers. "The poems are might capture life in a way that you about women's experience in society, always do and they articulate it for you," family, and the workplace, trying to Friedline said. show not only the crisis women face but Diana Matthias, the mastermind and the strength and resiliency they exhibit organizer of the whole day, is thrilled to when dealing with them," she said. have so many different kinds of poets 
One of the participants, Jacqueline and writers. "We have women of all ages Brogan, was a member of ·the participating from Notre Dame and the committees involved in declaring 1990-community," she said. "One teaches 91 the Year of the Woman. Brogan, an English, one teaches writing, two are associate professor of English, is in­students, and one is a poet from the terested in the historical oppression of community." women throughout the world. Matthias said that Friedline's 
"The main goal of these readings is to presentation will b~. interesting. "Her job celebrate language and to celebrate the has nothing to do with English, but she woman's vision of what language could still writes poetry." she said. be, because oppression occurs first in Sponsored by the Year of the Women, language and how we describe our the Program of Gender Studies, the Alice rights," she said. "Poetry is 'both Tully Endowment for the Fine and celebration and education. We can use a Performing Arts, and the Friends of the little bit of both right now." Snite Museum, Saturday's program will 
As a graduate student in the first year be a celebration of women. In the words of Notre Dame's new writing program, of Gernes, "it is important to pull Marci Sulak supports women writers, people's attention to the experiences and but does not consider herself a feminist. achievements of women." 



Students fast so others won't have to 
The Observer I Kevin Weise Sonia Gernes, professor of English at Notre Dame, is in charge of putting together a set of readings focusing on women. With these presentations, Gernes hopes "to pull people's attention to the experiences and achievements of women." 
$8,400 raised last semester . 
By VICTORIA HOWLIN overseas. The Center for the Homeless, Accent Writer Hope Rescue Mission, and the Food Pantry have all been recipients of 
Vic's, Pizza Hut, Domino's ...For many donations from the proceeds of the Notre Dame students, these estab­Wednesday Fast. lishments provide sustenance and In addition to the fast, the World satisfaction when the dining hall fare Hunger Coalition gave_ birth to the just does not appeal to the palate. And Foodshare Program that distributes in these rare instances of unappealing leftover food from the dining halls to cuisine a la dining hall, the primary agencies in South Bend that serve food concern of students is to search for to homeless people. They also sponsor those pizza coupons that seem to a Thanksgiving Basket program that disappear at will. distributed 86 baskets to families in
-
Unfortunately, in some areas of the South Bend this year. world, food is a luxury that can not be afforded. There are no coupons, there The World Hunger Coalition has, are no alternatives-just chronic over the past 15 years, become one of hunger. the most distinguished Notre Dame 
The World Hunger Coalitio11..attempts traditions. Furthermore, to the World to eradicate this tragedy through a Hunger Coalition's knowledge, Notre program called the Wednesday Fast. Dame is the only college that has Last semester approximately 7 40 maintained a weekly fasting program Notre Dame students raised $8,400 by for such an extended period of time. doing without lunch every Wednesday. Join this Notre· Dame tradition and In the spring semester of 1990, the make a difference in the world. These same program raised $4,940. contributions raise more than 
By fasting one lunch a week, money-they raise the spirits and the
-students have contributed to projects hopes of the children, the mothers, and in Asia, South America, and Africa. the fathers who receive this generous "The money is sent directly overseas offering made by those who fast. Sign for educational purposes," an officer of up by Friday in the dining halls, or call the World Hunger Coalition said. 283-2270 and leave name and ID However, not all of this money is sent number. 

.' 



AP Laserphoto 

Marv Levy, head coach of the Buffalo Bills, has been hard at work developing a game plan for Super Bowl XXV. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the. Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune, and from 12:30 to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including spaces. 
NOTICES USED TEXTBOOKS 25% off list price Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of NO ave and Howard TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Please join us in our prayer lor peace at the Center for Social Concerns chapel each weekday evening at 5:15. Pax Christi-NO PORTUGUES LANGUAGE TUTOR: BRAZILIAN GRAD STUDENT, CALL ROSALI 283-4629 SQUASH Interested in playing? Please come to court 2 In JAAC Monday Jan28@7:30 If you have any questions call 2880 I?ESERVATIONS AVAILAB•E NOW' DAYTONA BEACH .Sff9 • 1 NIG,.<HS SOUTH PADRE ISLAND .•. Sf29. SNIJOINICHr$ STEAMBOAT .. 196' 1 S AND 1 NIGHrs FORT LAUDERDALE SfJ7' 7 NIGHTS PANAMA CITY BEACH .•.Sf24• INICHrS CORPUS CHRIST/ I MUSTANC ISLAND ~.SfOB' SAND 1 N/CHrs HILTON HEAD ISLAND .•.Sff2' '• AND I NICHrS CALL TOLL FREE TOD.4Y 1·800·321·5911 Jrd Annual Spring Break Party Daytona Beach or  LOST: Men's Pulsar watch, gold with white face and brown leather band. Sentimental value. If found please call Heidi at #21 08. Lost on Fri. 1/18/91 between Cushing and Alumni: key ring with 6 keys (3 dorm, 2 car, 1 house). Reward. Call x1209. FOUND: Cross Pen by Arch Build. lnit. "R?N" II yours call x3470 & ID color and MI. LOST: GOLD RIM FRAMED GLASSES. POSSIBLY LOST BETWEEN BP AND D2. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X1279. NEEDED IMMEDIATELY-AM BLIND W/0 THEM. THANKS. HELPII II I left a pair of black Asics in the SOH. I'd love to get m y shoes back. #4289 LOST: Clear plastic dress bag filled with dresses, skirts and shirts. Was left hung over wire fence behind Breen-Philips on Dec. 21. Sweater of great sentimental value inside. If found, please call Erin at x1458. LOST: Blue Swatch between Dillon and Hurley, Tues., 1/22. Sentimental Value. Please call Chris x1851 WANTED ~-Roomate for two bedroom townhouse at Tulle Creek wanted. Bedroom is furnished. Contact nm at x2506. ' SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-343-8373.  SUMMER JOBS COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO, ROCKETRY. ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING; SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. MEN CALL OR WAITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONEC~. NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536.  SPRING BREAK 1991 Join thousands of college students in Daytona Beach or Cancun, Mexico. Package starting from $99.00 U.S. plus tax. Organize a group and travel lor free. Call T.J. at S.T.S 1-800 265-1799. Wanted: Volunteers to help provide COUNSELINE to the ND-SMC community. Interested? Attend our organizational/training meeting tonight at 6:30 in rm. 300 of the University Counseling Center. FOR RENT FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR CAMPUS~ SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER GILLIS. FREEDOM! Rent the best houses, prime locations. 233-9947. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291·7153. ANYONE INTERESTED IN TAKING OVER A LEASE AT RUNAWAY BAY, PLEASE CALL 255-7815. Party-time! Furn. 2,4,5 bedrm. homes. Safe, priv. park, washer/dryer, beach V-ball court. Bruce 234-3831 or 288-5653 Need rooms for Jr. Parent's Week? CAll Home B &B. 291-0535. 2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-3616 NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 FORSALE ~­ FARLEYITES: In case you've been living under a rock, here's a reminder that SATURDAY is POP FARLEY '91. Fire up for A NIGHT OF CELEBRATIONS, and if you don't have a date yet, GET ONE I 'Null said. "SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, SUMMER INTERNSHIPS" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30 p.m. IN ROOM 124 HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. "SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, SUMMER INTERNSHIPS" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30p.m. IN RM. 124 HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. "SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, SUMMER INTERNSHIPS" PRESENTATION BY PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TONIGHT 6:30p.m. IN RM. 124 HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. Spring Break '91 Cancun Style I 7 nights at Beachfront Hotel. Round trip air from Chicago. Free cover charges, Great discounts, Beach activities and contests. Prices from $469, for more info. call Tore at 289-3336 or Reggie at 277-7684. SAVE THIS NUMBER if you plan on roadtripping to IU, Ball State or U of Dayton sometime this semester and need a rider to help with gas $$$: X1177 and ask for John. KEENAN REVUE TICKETS will be distributed on Friday at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. See ad in Thursday's Observer for details BABYSITTER NEEDED FOR 2 YR. OLD-Mornings 8-12 or 1 pm, T-Th. or M-W-F. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call234-8743.  IRISH MUSIC & DANCE FRIDAY, JAN 25 AT CLUB 23 "The Return of the Cellist" with (sounds like Hay Machine) SEAMAISIN Seek guitar, bass, keys (vocal ability?) for classic/alt. band. Paul x3671. WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK '911 CANCUN FROM $459. JAMAICA FROM $539.001 DON'T MISS THE FUN AND SUN I CALL 1-800-427-7 ADOPTION: Christian couple seeks to adopt white infaDt. Financially secure home in suburban area. Expenses paid. Legal/confidential. Answer our ad and answer our prayers. Please call Harry and Melody collect at (219) 259-0585 any time. DANCE...DANCE ... DANCE. .. to your favorite tunes, played by your favorite DJs. This weekend in THEODORE'S: THURSDAY, JAN. 24 Frank McGehee FRIDAY, JAN. 25 Joe Watson SATURDAY, JAN. 26 John Yang Dearest Cynthia, I know thee not From thy verse, lor though thou seems! to be caught In the snares of that pretty boy Cupid, Admiring of me, thy lines and thy drooped Heart hath chosen to remain unknown. 01 That Medusa might turn to stone Thy love, lor love me not, you I pray; (If indeed I am not too bold to say You love, at least in the Petrarchan sense) For I know thee not, and have no defense. -Colin NEED A RIDE TO PITTSBURGH? Exit 3, PA Turnpike. 1-25 to 1-27. call Liz x4416 Rock your world with Jester • Tonight at Bridget's • Saturday at Club 23  
Montegomery Theater IUIIOJ'twle 7p.m. Daytona 8 p.m. S. Padre call Jenn 284-5087 LOST/FOUND -HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY NIGHT THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM #115, P.O. BOX 1214, AND A BUSINESS KEY-AROUND ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE FOUND, CALL 284-4308. THANK YOUII LOST: BLACK COAT WITH RED PATTERN LINING AT THE COMMONS WEDNESDAY NIGHT. CALL CARRIE 283-1250. LOST: Brown leather aviator jacket. Lost at Senior Bar on Thursday night. Call #1190 Found-gold wedding band. Call 283-2917 to 10.  ACCENT ON FUN! Coed, sleepaway camp in Massachusetts seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all land & water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, model rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, RN. 6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Ad., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800-955-CAMP. NEED EXTRA INCOME FOR 1991' Earn $500-1000 weekly stuffing envelopes For det'ails-Rush $1.00 with SASE to: OIH Group, 7121 La ural Hill Orlando Fl.32818 ATTENTION: Excellent income for home assembly work. 504-646­1700 DEPT. P5868. COME SEE .... Arsenic and Old Lace Washington Hall Tomightllllll at 8:10pm  ATTENTION CAMPUS BANDS: Local restaurant/lounge is looking for college bands to perform. For further information call 272-8954. Ask for Amy Razz Juggler's Needed for Mardi Gras Party on Feb. 7 Please call Ellen 284-4378 or Patsy 284-4420 Intelligent hardworking indi­viduals sought for book trade. 15+ hours/wk. $5/hr. Call 288-1 002 after 5 pm. Send resume to PO Box 4621, S. Bend, IN 46634 SPRING BREAK 1991 ENTHUSIASTIC INDIVIDUAL or STUDENT ORGANIZATION to promote the two most popular Spring Break destinations. Daytona Beach and Cancun Mexico. Earn free trips and cash $$$111 Call now. 1-800-2561799. Student Travel Services. Ask for T.J. I need a ride to Bloomngtn or Indy this weekend, please call Matt at 2984.  For Sale: NINTENDO SYSTEM and GAMES. Best offer. Call277-4677. ALL-BRICK TRADITIONAL CLOSE TO CAMPUS, 3 BR, 2200 sq. ft., new heating & cooling, formal DR and LR with fireplace. Clutter takes a powder in large closets. Study adjoins MBA. Spaciousness for $84, 900. OPEN HOUSE Sunday, Jan. 27, 1-3pm. Call Mary Jo Shively (Res.) 277-2279 RE/MAX 100 Realty 255-5858 PERSONALS A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $2791 JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA $1591 PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. Band looking for BASSIST call Greg 234-1048 or Scott 282­1557 FARLEYITES: Pop Farley Week continues tonight with movies in the Middle Room, starting at 8:30.  Would you please send a letter or Valentine to: PV2 Myers, R.S. 292-72-1332 Company B 3/24 A.V.N. A.P.O. N.Y., N.Y. 09315 He's in the Gulf and would like to hear from you. To the wonderful women of 704 PE (Denise, Beth, Beth-Ann, and Carmen): the man is MINE, it is only a matter of TIME ... Thanks for all your moral support, not to mention the juicy sexual advice I "Formally deprived in 705" BRENNAN, THANKS SO MUCH FOR GOING TO THE GROTTO WITH ME ON THE 21st. YOU WERE THERE WITH A SHOULDER, AN EAR AND A HUG. IT MEANT THE WORLD TOME. LOVEYA, SUSAN DO YOU ENJOY WORKING WITH PEOPLE? If you are searching for an opportunity that will allow you to earn an exceptionally large income while helping people, call 291-2964 for an appointment.  "Prayers for Peace" daily at the Grotto, 5:00-5:15 p.m. Dear Arthur Kent: We want to see you with your leather jacket off. Take It off, take it all off I-Love, Section 2B TOP TEN REASONS TO TAKE A DATE TO SEE ARSENIC AND OLD L.AQ.E.; 1 0) Produced by the same ones that brought you Nojses 01111 9) Your date won't come back and throw upon your carpet. 8) It makes absolutely no political statement about the corruption of our day. 7) Get to see cheap gags including an appearance by "Mr. Thingy.• 6) It's cheap so you can buy your date that beef jerky she's been craving. 5) Discover what Aunt Abby finds so delicious. 4) We promise you won't see Fred Francis or Brit Hume reporting from the Pentagon. 3) It's really funny-so in a fit of laughter you can slyly putyour hand on your date's knee. 2) John Cook says; "I loved it. It was much better than ~­I want to see It again and again.· 1) It'll kill yall Get tix now at LaFortune. See it tonight, Friday, Saturday or Sunday matinee.  - 

Thursday, January 24, 1991 
-------------~­

The Observer 
page 11 

what," Levy said. 

for me." 
til later. 

page 
12 Scoreboard 
NBA STANDINGS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE Alanllc Dlvleion 

I 
w L Ptt Boston 30 9 .769

I 
Philadelphia 22 18 .550I Washington 18 21 .462 New York 17 21 .447 New Jersey 13 26 .333 
I 
I 
Cenlnll Dlvialon Chicago 28 12 .700

t 
Detroit 28-13 .683 Mllwaukoo 27 t4 .659 t Atlanta •24 t6 .600 Indiana t6 24 .400 Cleveland t3 26 .333 
~­
I 
Charlotte t2 26 .3t6

I 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
~Civilian 
w L Ptt 
San Antonio 27 10 .730 Utah 26 t3 .667 Houston 20 20 .500 Minnesota t3 24 .35t Dallas t3 25 .342 Orlando tO 3t .244 Denver 9 30 .23t 
Padk Dlvialon Portland 35 7 .833 

•401 LA Lakers 27 tt .7tt Phoenix 25 t3 .658 Golden State 22 17 .564 Seattle 18 19 .486 LA Clippers t4 27 .34t Sacramento 10 26 .278 

Wedneedlly'a Game• 
Late Games Not Included New Jersey 99, Chicago 95 Indiana ttO, Philadelphia 109 Washington 104, Atlanta 99 Boston 11t, Detroit 94 Cleveland 99, Dallas 85 New York at Utah, (n) Milwaukoo at Sacramento, (n) 

Miami 11 29 .2_7.5 

Saturday.  
2. Arkansas (tB-1) beat Texas A&M 113-88. Next:  
(II 8112 12 12112 17 19 112  L10 6-4 3-7 6-4 5-5 2-8 3-7  Stteek Wont Lost4 Won2 Won2 Won2 Lost2  Home 20-3 14-7 12-5 9-12 9-12 8-12  Away 1[).6 8-11 6-16 8-9 4-14 3-17  Conf 20-7 17-10 10.12 11-14 8-17 5-19  at Baylor, Saturday. 3. Indiana (16-2) did not play. Next: at Michigan, Thursday. 4. Ohio State (16-0) did not play. Next: at Mlnnesota. Thursday. 5. Arizona (15-2) did not play. Next: at Stanford, Thursday. 6. Syracuse (17-2) did not play. Next: at  
Providence, Saturday.  
112 tt12 4 t2 14t12 t5  8-2 8-2 4-6 7-3 4-6 2-8 3-7  Lost 1 Lost t Lost 2 Lost! Wont Wont Lost2  17-3 t7-t 20-t t6-6 t3-7 8-12 8-t2  11-9 tt-t2 7-t3 8-10 3-t7 5-t4 4-t4  17-7 19-6 17-tt t4-t5 t0.t5 9-t5 7-t6  7. North Carolina (13-2) at Wake Forest. Next: vs. Georgia Tech, Sunday. 8. Kentucky ( 15-2) beat Florida 81-65. Next: at Alabama, Saturday. 9. Duke (15-4) lost to North Carolina State 95-89. Next: at Clemson. 10. St. John's (14-2) did not play. Next: vs. Villanova at the Spectrum, Saturday.  
11. UCLA (14-3) did not play. Next: at Oregon  
State, Thursday.  
(II 2 8tl2 t4 t4 t12 t9 t9  L10 7-3 7-3 3-7 5-5 3-7 2-8 3-7  Stteek Won2 Lost t Lost2 Lost t Lost 1 Lost!!" Wont  Home t4-3 t6-3 t3-6 8-tO 8-tt 8-tt 7-t2  Away t3-7 tO. tO 7-t4 5-t4 5-14 2-20 2-t8  Conf 20-5 t8-6 t2-t3 9-t7 8-t9 8-2t 5-2t  12. East TennesS99 State (14-2) did not play. Next: at VM I, Saturday. 13. Oklahoma (t4-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 14 Nebraska, Saturday. 14. Nebraska (16-2) did not play. Next: at No. 13 Oklahoma, Saturday. 15. Southern Mississippi (1 t-1) did not play. Next: at Louisville, Thursday. 16. LSU (12-4) did not play. Next: vs. Florida,  
Saturday.  
6 8 tt 112 t4 t12 201/2 22  7-3 9-t 6-4 7-3 6-4 3-7 4-6  Won 5 20-2 Won8 t6-4 Lost 2 ts-4 Wont t3-4 Won2 t3-6 Lost 2 1[).8 Won2 9-tO  t5-5 1t-7 10-9 9-t3 5-t3 4-19 t-t6  2t-5 t9-8 17-8 t4-tt 8-13 tt-t3 8-18  17. Pittsburgh (14-4) at Providence. Next: vs. No. 2t Georgetown, Saturday. 18. Virginia (13-4) beat Virginia Tech 86-61. Next: Ill Noire Dame, Saturday. 19. Connecticut (12-5) did not play. Next: vs. Seton Hall at the Meadowlands, Saturday. 20. Utah (17-1) did not play. Next: vs. Colorado State, Thursday.  
21. Georgetown (I t-5) did not play. Next: at No. 17  
Thu111day'a Games LA Lakers at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. Minnesota at Houston, 8:30p.m. Cleveland at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. New York at Denver, 9:30 p.m.  Pittsburgh, Sunday. 22. Michigan State (12-5) lost to Purdue 62-51. Next: at No.3 Indiana, Saturday. 23. New Mexico State (13-2) did not play. Next: vs. San Jose State, Thursday. 24. New Orleans (16-2) beat Central Florida 72-64.  
Next: vs. Alabama-Birmingham, Friday.  
25. South Carolina (14-4) beat Davidson 85-57.  
Next: at Merrphis State, Saturday.  

NCAA BASKETBALL SCORES 
EAST Adelphi 94, Old Westbury 76 Allegheny 79, Oberlin 57 Bowie St. 104, Colurri>la Union 69 Brown 98, Bryant 81 C.W. Post 15, Dowling 71 Caldwell 81, Nyack 68 California. Pa 112, Clarion 85 Catho"c U. 84, Gettysburg 72 Cheyney 91, Dlst. of Colurri>la 79 Colgate 75, Lafayette 65 Dickinson 84, W. Maryland 52 East Stroudsburg 98, West Chester 84 Fordham 79, Bucknell 73 Franklin Pierce 88, Keene St. 80 Grove City 71, Carnegie-Mellon 53 Hartford 88, Northeastern 79 Holy Cross 71, Army 59 James Madison 81, Navy 80 Jersey City St. 87, Rutgers-Camden 41 Kings, Pa 96, Wlkos 82 Kutztown 86, Mansfield 65 Lehigh 92, Penn 78 Lock Haven 109, Indiana. Pa t05 Lowell 100, New HarTllShlre Coli. 96 Md.-Battlmore County 78, Delaware n Moravian 76, Muhlenberg 70 

-
Mount St. Vincent 92, N.Y. Poly 70 
N.Y. Tech 94, Concordia, N.Y. 92 
New . ; . . ; ... 

NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlvialon  
NY Rangers Philadelphia Pittsburgh New Jersey Washington NY Islanders  w L 26 17 25 21 26 21 19 20 22 25 17 25  T 8 6 3 10 2 6  ""' 60 56 55 48 46 40  GF 186 173 215 177 157 135  GA 156 164 184 170 163 168  Home 14-7-5 13-9-4 16-11-1 13-6-6 11-t0-1 10-t4-3  Away 12-10.3 12-12-2 10-10.2 6-14-4 11-15-t 7-11-3  Dlv 9-7-3 7-10-5 13-9-0 8-11-5 11-9-t 7-9-4  
Adame Dlvlalon  
Boston Montreal Buffalo Hartford Quebec  26 27 20 21 10  16 18 17 22 30  8 5 10 5 9  60 59 50 47 29  180 168 169 142 139  164 t49 !53 161 216  t5-6-3 15-7-2 11-6-6 11-10-3 5-13-6  11-1[).5 12-11-3 9-11-4 10-12-2 5-17-3  10-7-3 10-5-3 6-8-4 7-9-3 5-9-5  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Nc!fria Division  
Chicago St. Louis Detron Minnesota Toronto  w L 32 14 26 15 22 22 t4 29 12 32  T 4 7 5 8 5  ""' 68 59 49 36 29  GF 167 175 164 153 142  GA 128 146 172 179 207  Home 17-6-2 12-6-5 18-7-0 9-14-4 7-18-2  Away 15-8-2 14-9-2 4-15-5 5-t5-4 5-14-3  Dlv 13-6-1 11-6-2 9-7-2 3-12-3 5-10-2  
Smythe Division  
Los Angeles Calgary Edmonton Vancouver Winnipeg  26 25 23 18 16  17 19 20 26 27  5 5 3 4 8  57 55 49 40 40  194 201 154 150 160  156 160 145 179 181  15-6-3 13-7-1 14-8-1 10.11-2 11-tt-3  tt-11-2 12-12-4 9-12-2 8-15-2 5-16-5  7-7-3 11-6-2 8-9-2 6-13-0 8-5-5  
Wedneeday'a Games  
Late Game Not Included  
Hartford 5, Calgary 4  
Montreal 7, Toronto 3  
Edmonton at Vancouver, (n)  
Thureday'aGemea Hartford at Boston, 7:35p.m.  TRANSACTIONS  
Washington at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m.  
Quebec at New Jersey, 7:45p.m.  BASEBALL  
Buffalo at Chicago, 8:35p.m.  American League  

BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to minor league contracts whh Cecillo Guante, and Tony Fossas, pitchers. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms with Gene Larkin, first baseman, on a two-year contract. SEATILE MARINERs-Named Dan Warthen bullpen coach. 
Ndonat League
tlail st: 78, Ohio u. 50 

CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terms with DaveCalvin 64, Albion 62 Clark, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
Cent. Michigan 69, Kent St. 60 CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms withCent Missouri74, NE Missouri 57 Mariano Duncan, second baseman, on a one-yearChicago St. 109, NE Illinois 107 contract. Signed Mo Sanford and Luis Vasquez,DePaul 92, Drake 71 pitchers, and Reggie Sanden~, outfielder, to minorDefiance 50, Bluffton 46 league contracts.

Denison 60, Ea~ham 43 HOUSTON ASTROS--Agreed to four-yearDubuque 97, Luther 89 player-d9V9Iopment contract with Jackson of the

Elmhun~t 66, Carthage 82 
Texas League.

Franklin 68, Rose-Hulman 64, OT Heidelberg 87, Capital 54 Ill. Benedictine 88, Concordia, IH. 72 
BASKETBALL Illinois Wealyn 82, Augustana,lll. 72 Natlonel BuketJol .A.oclaton Kalamazoo 79, Olivet 57 
DALLAS MAVERICKS--Released Howard Kansas 84, Wlchha St. 50 
Wright, forward. Activated Herb Williams, forward, Manchester 86, Anderson, Ind. 65 
from the Injured list. Marietta 83, Mount Union 67 
NEW YORK KNICKS-Actlvated Eddie Loo Miami, Ohio 86, W. Michigan 80 
Wilkins, forward, from the Injured list. Waived Mo. Southern 80, Mlaaou~-Rolla 86 
Stuart Gray, c:enter. Mo. Wostern 79, NW Missouri St. 73 Mo.-Kansas City 83, E. Kentucky 73 
HOCKEY Ohio Weslyn 96, Kenyon 87 
NatioNII Hockey League Otterbein 110. Hiram Col. 75 
NEW YORK RANGER5-Recallod Rick Bennett, Peru St. 75, Midland Lutheran 68 
left wing, and Tie Doml, right wing, from Purdue 62, Michigan St. 51 
Binghamton of the American Hockey League. Rio Grande 112, Dyke 88 St. Mary's, Kan. 85, Sterilng 74 
COLLEGE 

SYRACUSE-Announced Rob Carpenter wide Toledo 57, Bowling Green 56 Taylor 70, DePauw 47 receiver, wiH enter the NFL draft. ' 
Pace 76, Phlla. Textile 73, 20T Pittsburgh 92, Providence 79 Pratt 101, Molloy 93 Ramapo 81, Stockton St. 68 Sacred Heart 83, Bridgeport 77 Scranton 68, Delaware Val. 50 Slippery Rock 97, Edinboro 68 Southampton 65, Quoons Coli. 59 St. Vincent 59, Westminster, Pa 46 Stony Brook 100, CCNY 73 Thiel 83, Waynesburg 78 Towson St. 72, Drexel 70 Union, N.Y. 56, Utica 53 Vermont 79, Dartmouth 77 Widener 71, Haverford 47 
SOUTH 
Ala-Birmingham 89, Va Commonwealth 68 Abany, Ga 79, Tuskegoo 77 Armstrong St. 74, Valdosta St. 59 
Auburn 59, Georgia 58, 20T Austin Peay 85, Ark.-Little Rock n Barton 77, Mount Olive 74 Belmont Abbey 88, St. Andrew's 85 Berry 95, Kennesaw 90 Brewton-Parker 107, LaGrange 92 Catawba 73, Wingate 71 Charleston Southern 77, Liberty 73 Christopher Newport 88, Newport News 75 Citadel 86, St. 78 
Elon. : .. ; =··. 

Ferrum 117, Methodist 81 Fisk 98, Rust 91 Florida A&M 97, Florida Memorial 78 George Mason 72, American U. 68 Johnson C. Smith 98, Barber-Scotia 87 Kentucky 81, Florida 65 Mississippi St. 68, Alabama 59 
N. Carolina A&T 81, N.C.-Greensboro 67 
N. Carolina St. 95, Duke 89 N.C. Wesleyan 66, Shenandoah 63 N.C.-Asheville 91, Winthrop 68 New Orleans 72, Cent. Florida 64 North Carolina 91, Wake Forest 81 Oglethorpe 67, Trinity, Tex. 52 Pfeiffer 106, High Point 82 Presbyterian 55, Mars Hill47 Randolph-Macon 69, Va. Wesleyan 53 Richmond 7t, East Carolina 64 Shorter 67, Piedmont 53 South Carolina 85, Davidson 57 Southern U. 103, Nicholls-St. 76 Troy St. 157, Voorh99S 116 Vanderbin 89, Mississippi 52 VIrginia 86, Virginia Tech 61 William & Mary 58, VMI48 Winston-Salem 82. Llvlnostone 78 
MIDWEST Akron 71, Youngstown St. 66, OT Alma 90, Mich.-Dearbom 72 Baldwin-Wallace 65, John Carroll 56 
The 1991 MCAT Will Be An All New, Completely Revised Test. Stanley H. Kaplan Is dy. 
Students planning on applying to medical school will be facing a completely revised Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) starting in Ap:ill99l. The Association of American Medical Colleges has announced that the new MCAT will measure a broader range of skills. 
-
Fortunately, the test makers aren't the only ones making changes. Stanley H. Kaplan, the first name in MCAT prep, 
0 AKINDEil •••
has already designed a brand new course to help students 
get ready for the brand new test All our lessons, home study notes, practice tests, and review will reflect the latest MCAT 
~1\TTLER REV'\J~
format and content. 

Does Kaplan preparation work7 Over HALF the students in medical school today are Kaplan alumni. New test7 No problem. 
Jan 31, Feb. 1,2 
Ticket Distribution: Friday, January 25 (2 tix/ID, 1 ID/person)
I STANLEY H. KAPLAN 
eil. Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
ND-3:00-4:00 (no lines before 2:15) 
1717 E. SOUTH BUiD A\i£. 
Gate lOJACC
SOUTH BEND, I~ 466J7 219/272-41 }'j 
SMC-5:00-6:00 (no lines before 4:15) Haggar Center 
4/27/91 MCA T Prep Class starts 2/2/91. 

--·----____...........--~----~-------­
r-----------------­
Thursday, January 24, 1991 The Observer page 13 
Ross 
continued from page 16 
allows you to get in a groove. 
Beffire, you might just play for 
a few minutes at a time." 
Hoss knows his learning pro­
cess is far from complete, but 
he also knows he must be pro­
duetive in his inaugural cam­
paign. The remainder of the 
season will be his on-the-job 
training. 
"We've definitely got to pick it 
up," Hoss said. " It's not going 
to be magic. We've got some 
big games left and everybody 
has to step up." 
One player who has stepped 
UnitedWay
• 

up is junior center Keith Tower, who has put together some im­pressive numbers during the past three games. 
Tower started the stretch with 11 points and eight re­bounds against West Virginia and followed that with 12 points and eight rebounds in a victory over Marquette. His en­core was an eight-point, nine­rebound performance against Hutgers. 
"I think Keith has really played well the past three games," Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "I think he has really stepped up a notch. He's been more aggressive on the boards. He seems to be hit­ting his shot. I think he's got to do more of that for us and be more of a perimeter shooter." 
NOTES -Irish forward Daimon Sweet was named Independent Player of the Week for the period ending Jan. 21. He scored 42 total points in Irish victories over West Virginia and Marquette last week....Irish guard Tim Singleton needs just 14 assists to move into second place past Rich Branning on the all-time assist chart. ...Notre Dame was 39-90 from the three-point area in its first 10 games, but is just' 14-56 in its last seven outings. 
•
American Heart ~.·a · Association ..,_, 
HAPPY 21&T BIQTHDAY MICHAEL PALQANG 
* 
Full Color Reproduction of the Works of over 100 Master Artists 

* 
Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $15! 


*Wide Variety of photographs ...... beautiful landscapes to high tech., ETC. 
*This is your Last Opportunity to DECORATE INEXPENSIVELY! 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute will begin Beginning 
Classes in Tae Kwon Do and Jiujitsu today from 6:45 -8:45 p.m. 
in Rm. 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Advanced classes will begin 
I 
on Friday at 6:30 p.m. Questions, call Denis at x2090. 
I I
Fellowship of Christian Athletes (ND/SMC) will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Pangborn. Bring a friend. You don't have to be athletic. BYOB (Bring Your Own Bible). Questions? Call Mark Zoia at x1606 or Cathy Bradshaw at x4088. 
I 
Attention all crew members: there is a mandatory meeting 
--J 
tonight at 7:30 in 104 O'Shag to discuss spring break. I I I 
Look good on the beach Spring Break -get fit and trim in one I of the NVA Aerobic Classes. Classes today are free! Call NVA 239­6100 for details . 
Anyone interested in becoming commissioner for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament should pick up an application at the SUB secretary, 2nd floor, LaFortune. Applications are due: on Friday, Feb. 3. Any questions or comments should be addressed to Kevin McGee at 2 34-8817 . 
Men's Volleyball Club will play their first home match against Brock College of Canada on Saturday, Jan. 26 at 2 p.m. in the pit of the JACC. Their second home match is Monday, Jan. 28 versus Ferris State at 7:30 p.m .. also in the pit. Admission is free, so come and enjoy some fast-paced volleyball action. 
Late Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Contact the LNO representative in your hall for information on the latest night of the year -Late Night Olympics. Friday, February 1. 
Anyone interested in working in the Notre Dame Sports Information Office this semester as a volunteer student assistant should contact Rosemary Pietrzak or Jim Daves at 239-7516. 
ND Boxing practices have begun for the 61st Bengal Bouts. Practices are held at 3:45 p.m. every weekday in the Boxing Room. Any questions, call Norm Conley at 233-8133. 
Call284..4326 & wish 
~E~?I ~t'J1V1t 
•A • • 
A HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY TODAY! 
LOVE ALWAY~ KER-BMR, YOUR BROTIIER 
es(j_ Ae7'7'V17'7$S 
ze.s7'7'VA~ 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24th 7-10 PM at the 
©rn:~IJrn:[& GS'@[& ®®©O£l1 
©®~©rn:[&~® 
-
Over forty service and social action groups will be represented! 
~m~ 

-~---­
~----­

page 14 The Observer Thursday, January 24, 1991 
Gerardi, in fact, stands only
Bleier, ND grad and vet, admires Gl's Ducks 
three wins short of joining the 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -The last time America went to war, Rocky Bleier was just another grunt wearing dogtags. 
Bleier came back from Vietnam 22 years ago as a wounded vet, but was able to successfully resume his football career, playing for four Super Bowl champions with the Pittsburgh Steelers, writing a book about his war and football experiences and being the subject of a made-for-TV movie. 
With America at war again, Bleier said he admires the cur­rent generation of GI's who have gone to war in a unfamil­iar land. 
"I've thought about it a lot since the Gulf war broke out ... there were those guys sitting over there in the desert, antici­pating the unknown. sitting on the sidelines waiting to go into the game," said Bleier, who didn't see combat in his first 100 days in Vietnam. 
"The worst thing is the wait, the anticipation. It's a crazy time. They know they're in a war, but they're not really in it yet. It's like a football game, waiting for that first hit. Until then, all they know is what they read and hear." 
The 44-year-old Bleier was an undrafted rookie from Notre Dame trying to secure an NFL job when he was drafted -by the U.S. Army -late in the 1968 NFL season. Assigned to 
Sara 
continued from page 16 
void on the team created by the loss of four key players to aca­demic problems. She scored a season-high 18 points against Marquette last Saturday in what McGraw called "possibly the best game she's played in her career." 
While individually, this may be a down year for Liebscher statistically, it is more than made up for by the success the Irish have been achieving: a 31-game MCC winning streak, making the national rankings for the first time in history (20th AP, 19th USA Today this week) and knocking off peren­nial power Louisiana Tech. However, the greatest reward hopefully is upcoming. 
"If we make the NCAA Tournament, that'll definitely be big," she said. "It's some­thing we've been so close to the last couple of years, but we've never broken the barrier, gone that one step further. I'm ex­Cited because, leaving, I'll feel like I was a part of that." 
The allure of being in the spotlight has not been com­pletely l0st for Liebscher, though. 
"It would be nice to be the star," she said. "Everyone comes out of high school as the star of their team, and so when you come here, you think, 'I can do the same here.' But you're quick to realize when you get here, however, that everybody here was the star, so somebody has to take the backseat. 
"This has been a great expe­

-rience. I've learned so much working with Coach McGraw and my teammates. I don't have any regrets. In fact, I wish it would last longer." 
And should Sara Liebscher's preseason prediction of the Irish making the Final Four oc­cur, this unsung heroine's wish will come true, at least for a lit­tle while. 

Vietnam as an infantryman at the height of the conflict, he was injured by gunshot and a grenade blast in August 1969 and required extensive leg and foot surgery. 
Told he'd never play football again, he returned to the Steelers in 1970 and, after ex­haustive rehabilitation, became a starting running back in 1974. He rushed for 1,036 yards in 1976 and started on all four of Pittsburgh's Super Bowl winners before retiring in 1980. 
A partner in a Pittsburgh­based corporate consulting firm, Bleier does not wave the American flag in the hundreds of motivational speeches he de-­livers annually. But he says that he hopes the war does not be­come as unpopular here as Vietnam was. 
"There's flag-waving and yellow ribbons and there's a delineation now of why we're at war with Iraq. The troops understand why they're there and what we're doing ... and we know who our enemy is," Bleier said. 
"During Vietnam, people heard the death counts, saw the atrocities on TV and were disgusted with the war and 
_)-­

l~?~~ You al~ays make the right choice at Irish Gardens. 
Now that Irish Gardens is re-open for the semester,.be sure to take advantage of their great selection of flowers, balloons and greeting cards. 
And now that St. Valentine's Day is just around the corner, don't delay! Hurry on down! 

Located in the basement of 
LaFortune Student Center 
Open Monday -Saturday 
12:30 -5:30pm 


There is a price and responsi­bility for the freedoms we have. 
Saddam did not bomb Sometimes you have to make that tough stand. 
Bert Koehler. 
"I see part of our pride com­ing back. We've lost some our strength and esteem the last 20 
Bert did it to himself. years -the dollar has been de­valued, the yen has risen, there's going to be a European central market. It's a changing world, and we need to be able to pull ourselves together and stand up for our strength." 
Bleier knows what many of the soldiers in the Gulf are thinking and has what he hopes is some sound advice for any who see or hear his words. 

100-victory club -a feat ac­complished by only eight other Notre Dame wrestlers. 
Quit smoking. 

American Heart Association 
those that fought it. They couldn't separate the two. It was a dirty war, but that didn't make those that fought it dirty." 
Bleier said the war in the Gulf gives the U.S. a chance to re­capture the pride and dignity it lost in Vietnam's jungles. 
"We in the United States are in a position of world leader­ship, whether we like it or not," he said. "Sometimes, it's easier to sit back and reap the good things when it comes down to a confrontation of this nature. 
continued from page 16 

Freshman 167-pounder Mat 
Sprague, ranked 12th in the 
nation, is the third star in a 
powerful Oregon lineup. 
The Fighting Irish, mean­
while, will counter with their 
own array of nationally-ranked 
threats. 

Junior Marcus Gowens, 12th­
ranked at 126 pounds, and se­
nior Mark Gerardi, ranked 11th 
at 167 pounds, are only two of 
many talented Irish wrestlers. 
..---------------------­
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
The Observer page 15 
Thursday ACROSS 25 Chaplin's 58 Of certain herbs widow or shrubs 
1 Locale of 26 Classify 59 Famed Italian 

3:30-4:30 p.m. Presentation: Introduction to the Resume "Tasca" 
31 Klinger writer
Expert. Career and Placement Conference Room. 
5 "Alas!" portrayer in 60 Sumptuosityaccompaniment 61 Fingerlike
"M*A*S*H"
6:30 p.m. Presentation: "How To Obtain A Summer 9 Piece of jewelry process
34 A tormentor of 
Internship" Given by Paul Heynolds of the Career and 13lsraeli Cinderella 63 Sector 
64 Headless, in

Placement Services office, Room 124 Hayes-Healy Center. statesman 37 Don Juan's 14 More sagacious 
heraldry

emotion 
65 Guernsey is one

15 Like Pisa's 38 "~~pro nobis" 
66 Kind of buoy or7:30-9:30 p.m. Seminar: Energy and Economic tower 39 Vice principal, boy

Hepercussions of the Gulf War. Hesburgh Library audito­16 Sanctioned; e.g. 67 A swimming 
. valid

rium. 40 Missing companion of 
18 Kin of rigatoni essential~? 
Alice 19 Golfer 44 Appearance 68 City on the Woosnam 45 Classroom Skunk 20 Ephebic essential 21 A victim of 46 He, to Canio 
DOWN

MENUS Cortes 48 Head of 22Title of48 N.Y.C.'s school 
1 Holy Grail, e.g. Across and system 2 Voodooism recent 54 Name for a 3~~Carta
Notre Dame 

predecessors flame 4 Cuckoo
Grid Pork Chops 
5 Laboratory

Blackened Cajun Cod device Pasta Bar 6 '' ... the
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
readiness 
~~":Hamlet 

1 Reach aDom. of Otto II 27 Nefarious man 42 Drop a pop-up 53 Frigid and 9 Utah's N.BA from Georgia 43 Akin on Dad's Torrid 
28 A 1922 song side 54 Tattle
Saint Mary's 

10 Finished 55 Use a
team 29 Change decor 47 Gershwin's
Swedish Meatballs 

parasailing coachman
30 Arduous "~~, Lucille"Cheese Enchiladas 
11 Love too fondly 56 Spinning leap in
journey 49 A corn chip
Hoast Loin of Pork 12 Majestic a rink
31 Pass the peak 50 Keen; antsy 

Deli Bar 57 Ardor
32 Part of SA

17 Tasty treat in · 51 Paine's creed 61 Actress --Rio
33 Sub follower 

Taxco 52 Kin of a lycee 62 Aunt, in Avila 
21"-di 35 Historic period Picche," Italian 36 Kind of suit that comic strip makes men Answers to any three clues in this 
23 A T .V.A dam squirm puzzle are available by touch-tone 24 Fordham 41 "~~ Dinah," phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each mascot Avalon hit minute). · 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 


SPIKE LEE FESTIVAL 
MOVIES:LECTURE: 

JAN 24:  SCHOOL DAZE  
FEB. 4  )TEPAN CENTER  7:30 PM  
JAN. 25:  DO THE RIGHT THING  
Tickets  for  ND  students  only Jan.  28  and  29.  $3  JAN. 26:  MO BETTER BLUES  
Tickets  for  the  general public Jan.  30-Feb.  1.  $5  
Ld~ortune  Info.  Desk  All  movtes  at  Cushing  Auditorium  

8 and l 0:30 pm. $2 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Sports 
page 16 Thursday, January 24, 1991 
I 
I 
I Liebscher key piece of t~e puzzle 
I 
I Senior playmaker quiet, consistent leader for McGraw
I 
By RENE FERRAN 

t Sports Writer I 
I 
Every good basketball team
t---­
has an "unsung hero," someone who makes the little plays -an effective box-out, a good screen -which don't make the high­light films, but set up others for the big plays. 
For the Notre Dame women's basketball team, Sara Liebscher willingly accepts that role. 
"I don't think I'm a flashy player," Liebscher said. "Sometimes it's hard, but that's something I've accepted, be­cause I know I'm not the scorer like ,either of them (teammates Krissi Davis and Karen Robinson). I like the position I have. I've accepted it, and I like watching them." 
Liebscher, a 5-8 senior from Davenport, Iowa, has not al­ways been in the background. A three-time all-state player and an honorable mention All­American in USA Today and Street & Smith's at Assumption High School, she still lists as her greatest athletic thrill making the game-winning shot in a state tourney game, although "this year, things are starting to compare." 
Coming to Notre Dame, Liebscher had s~me high expectations, and has met some of them. She was a second­team all-MCC selection as a sophomore, and is fifth on the all-time Irish free-throw percentage list (. 7 51). and fourth in career assists (273). 
However, when she recog­nized that she wasn't destined for the limelight here at Notre Dame, her goals changed. 
"When I came in, I probably thought more about getting the big numbers," Liebscher said, "but once I got here, I realized that wasn't the role I was going to play, and so now that I've accepted the role that I have, in that sense I feel like I've met that expectation. 
"I've been the steady player. I've tried to keep a good atti­tude in practice, be a player who's looked out for the younger players, and in that re­spect, I think I have met my goals." 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw has nothing but praise for her senior tri-cl).ptain. 
"She is a coach's dream," McGraw said. "She always does exactly what you ask of her to do. She never tries to do too much on the floor. She plays within her role, and she under­stands what she can do. 
Her teammates also are unanimous in their admiration of Liebscher. 
"Sara's a great individual. She has great knowledge of the game. She always seems to make the right cuts in the of­fense," freshman Sherri Orlosky said. "If I ever have a problem, I can go to Sara about it ... whether it's ·about basketball or about other 

Ismail to announce draft intentions today 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey Raghib Ismail, shown in the midst of an apparent game-winning punt return in the 1991 Orange Bowl, will today announce his plans for the upcoming NFL draft. 
Observer Staff Report throughout the season that he 
would return to Notre Dame 
Junior flanker Raghib for his senior year to get his Ismail is expected to degree and play out his final announce today if he will year of eligibility for the Irish. 
return to Notre Dame for his But after the regular season senior year. ended, Ismail was said to be 
Ismail will hold a press con­re-evaluating his decision to ference at 11 a.m. at WNDU stay at Notre Dame. He said studios, presumably to in late December that he 
address whether he will enter would wait until after the the National Football League Orange Bowl to announce his draft. plans for next year. 
The Wilkes-Barre, Penn. native, who finished second in If Ismail intends to enter Heisman Trophy balloting to the NFL, he must declare Brigham Young's Ty Detmer, himself eligible by the Feb. 1 
repeatedly told reporters deadline. 

problems school wise." 
"She's fun to be.around," said fellow senior Robinson. "Sara, Krissi, and I are three different personality types, and fresh­man year, we didn't know each other tha~ell, but now, the three of us have become really good friends. 
... 
....., 

Liebscher has alter~dbe­tween starting and subs ting this season. While starting ay be the greater honor, Liebscher almost prefers coming in as the "sixth man." 
"I don't mind coming off the bench; in fact, I kind of like it because you get to watch what's happening in the game," she ·said. "It's kind of fun to be the spark off the bench. And with Coach McGraw, I feel like I'm still getting as much playing time as I would if I was start­ing, so that doesn't bother me at all." 
Liebscher is one of Notre 
Dame's top outside shooting 
threats, hitting 38.5 percent of 
her three-point attempts this 
season and 52.5 percent of all 
her field goals. 
However, she has been both­ered somewhat by an ankle in­jury this year, forcing her to miss two games and almost all 
·of a third. Her minutes, points, 
and rebounds per game are all 
down from the 1989-90 season. 
Recently, Leibscher has risen The Observer/John Cluver 
to the challenge of filling the Sara Liebscher, shown in action last season, is "the kind of player that, 
after four years, you never yell at" according to Irish head coach Muffet 
see SARA I page 14 McGraw. 
Notre Dame battles #21 Oregon 
Irish wrestlers look to end losing streak with win 

By DAVE DIETEMAN point loss), and we drew at 190 Sports Writer pounds because of a penalty in the last ten seconds. 
The Notre Dame wrestling "I felt pretty good, ou'r en­team, in the throes of a four­thusiasm was good and we match losing streak, hosts the were not intimidated. With a 21st-ranked Oregon Ducks couple of breaks, we would tonight at the Joyce ACC. have beat them." 
In their last outing, the Irish The Ducks (8-0; 5-0 in PAC-suffered a 24-11 reversal at the 10) however, should pose an hand of 12th-ranked Purdue at equally formidable challenge to the Calumet Campus of Purdue the frustrated Irish. University. Marcus Gowens_, "Oregon is in keeping with Todd Layton and J.J. McGrew the way our schedule seems to registered wins in the match take a step up in competition against Purdue. every week," noted McCann. 
"Purdue is tough," said Notre "They may be the best team on 
Dame coach Fran McCann. "We the west coast and they will knew they probably had their probably win the PAC-10, best team in years. It was the which is a good wrestling same old story for us -close but conference. no cigar. At 118 pounds, a bad "I think that the meet could call cost us the match (a one-come down to· the last two 
Jon Ross big contributor to Irish hoops 
By GREG GUFFEY 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame freshman forward Jon Ross knew he could make an impact this season, but he never dreamed it would be this big. Ross has been forced into the biggest role after the Irish lost leading scorer and rebounder LaPhonso Ellis to academic 

ineligibility for the remainder 
Jon Ross

of the season. He has started the past two games and has av­eraged 20 minutes of action in knows he is playing a much 
those contests. more important role. "I think I'm adjusting well," He put together one of the best Ross said. "I think the thing games of his young career in a 
that helps the most is that the 62-52 loss to Rutgers Tuesday coaches don't put a lot of pres­night, scoring six points and 
sure on me." grabbing six rebounds in 28 But when he looks over and 
minutes of action. The benefits sees Ellis in street clothes, Ross 
come not with the stats, but 
matches. Our record does not give a good indication of how talented we are. We are trying to turn our season around, and this meet would be a good time to do it." 
Leading Oregon in dual meet points (36) is senior Curt Strahm, also ranked 12th in the nation at 190 pounds. Overall, Strahm is 19-1; he is 8-0 in dual meets and has not only registered six technical falls, but is 4-0 in matches decided by pins. 
Junior Dan Vidlak, ranked second in the country at 118 pounds, is the top-ranked Duck. This year, Vidlak is 11-0 overall and 8-0 (with 32 points) in dual meets. 
see DUCKS I page 14 
just knowing he can perform against the teams on the tough Irish schedule. "It's a great confidence builder," Ross said. "The more minutes I get, the more confi­dence I get." 
Ross is not a total newcomer to the starting lineup. He got the nod against Portland and responded with nine points and seven boards. He followed that with another start against Valparaiso and scored seven points. The difference now is that Ross knows he will stay in the game for longer stretches. And he says that helps his perfor­
mance. "It helps you when you stay out there longer," he said. "It 
see ROSS I page 13 





