
VOL. XXIII NO. 94 FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 15. 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Juniors participating in the Notre Dame London Program show their support of Junior Parents Weekend by lining up in the form of the letters JPW. Parents and juniors look forward to weekend activities which include a President's dinner, a dance, and various receptions. 
Saint Mary's candidates debateissues 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Increased diversity, campus security, and the quality of off­campus student life were three of the main issues discussed at the Saint Mary's Student Government debate Thursday. 
The first ticket, consisting of Maureen Lowry, candidate for student body president; Colleen Rhattigan, vice president of Academic Affairs; and Meg McGowan, vice president of Student Affairs boasted a record of "hard work and dedi­cation" in the many offices that each of the candidates have held. The Lowry ticket said that they "want to reach the full po­tential of Saint Mary's student 
see DEBATE/ page 3 
Allies bomb despite bunker furor 

DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -From the Kuwait coast to central Iraq, U.S. and allied pilots pounded away at fresh targets Thursday, unimpeded by the international furor over the Baghdad bunker tragedy. 
The U.S. command. in re­sponse to the death of hun­dreds of civilians in Wednesday's Baghdad bomb­ing, said it was looking for new ways to limit such casualties ­possibly including advance an­nouncements of its targets. 
The air war. buildup to an armor-and-infantry push into Kuwait. appeared to have made major progress. The command said one-third of Iraq's tanks and artillery in the battle zone have now been destroyed. 
Strategists are believed shooting for 50-percent de-
OPERATION DESERT STORM 

• 
Iraqi funerals I page 4 

• 
30-day update I page 4 

• 
Rep. wants nukes I page 5 

• 
Kuwaiti executions I page 5 


struction before ordering the ground assault. The comman­der of British forces in the Persian Gulf, Lt. Gen. Sir Peter de Ia Billiere, told reporters Thursday there are already "proposed dates" for the of­fensive. 
A fourth U.S. aircraft carrier, the USS America, has moved into the Persian Gulf, joining the Ranger. the Midway and the Theodore Roosevelt, a Pentagon source confirmed Thursday. The America had been in the Red Sea. Planes from the warships are expected to fly cover over allied troops in a ground assault. 
In the Desert Storm air cam­paign, two crewmen of a U.S. Air Force EF-111 were killed when their plane went down in northern Saudi Arabia, appar­ently after being damaged in combat, and a British Tornado 
see GULF/ page 4 

AIDS is topic of student conference 
By CAROL DOMINGUEZ 
News writer 
AIDS awareness and campus AIDS policies were the chief topics discussed at the recent 
conference  of  the  National  
Association  of  Students  at  
Catholic  Colleges  and  

Universities (NASCCU). 
The second annual nationwide conference held this past week­end at the University of Dayton, Ohio, attracted dele­gates from twenty Catholic col­leges and universities, including students from Notre Dame Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross. ' 
Organized in 1989 by Notre Dame Student Body Vice­President David Kinkoff NASCCU held its first confer: ence last year at Notre Dame. According to Jon Barger, a Notre Dame student who at­tended the conference, the "purpose of NASCCU is to unite students in an open and re­sponsive forum and address is­sues relevant to each campus." 
Each year the conference fo­cuses on an issue relevant to college students, especially those attending Catholic insti­tutions. Barger said that repre­sentatives "come back to make changes and see what we can do on our respective cam­puses." 
The Association discussed 

means to improve awareness of 
the disease and ways to imple­
ment effective AIDS policies at 
their schools. 
Convention speakers lectured on the scientific and educa­tional aspects of the virus. A priest afflicted with AIDS spoke of the need to address the issue of the disease itself and not how one has acquired the ill­ness. 
"The Catholic tradition tells us to take care of the sick, and not to make a judgment by asking questions," Barger said. 
Joe Cataldo, a sophomore member of NASCCU, said that he hopes to incorporate ideas from the conference into stu­dent life. "More education is not gomg to hurt us, but only going to help," he said. Cataldo said that education in a mandatory Freshman class, at Freshman orientation, or even in seminars outside of the classroom would assist in AIDS awareness. "We have to see which way works best for ND," he said. 
Fred Tombar, current stu­dent body vice-president, was one of the three delegates who attended the meeting. He led a small group discussion on in­corporating NASCCU into stu­dent government. 
Tombar said that he and the other delegates will encourage other student leaders and the administration to "pro-actively look at the issue of AIDS and how it affects the community." 
"We need to be prepared to handle the issue of AIDS on this campus and in the community at large," he said. 
According to Barger and Cataldo, Notre Dame has no set policy on AIDS. "The adminis­tration has a guideline to fol­low, but that hasn't been re­vised since 1986," Cataldo said. 
"It would be in the adminis­tration's and our best interest to revise it," he added. 
see NASCCU I page 7 
ND woman the 'blue 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 

A Walsh Hall resident was confronted early Monday evening by a man asking if she would punch him in the stomach, said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
The woman was on the East side of Walsh Hall when the man approached her saying, "I'm having a cramp. Punch me in the stomach. K 
The woman declined, walked in her dorm and immediately called Security, Hurley said. 
She described the suspect as a slim, white male. He had short brown hair and was clean shaven, she added. He 


confronts jogger' 
was also described as 5 feet 6 
inches tall and approximately 
20 years of age. 
He was wearing a royal blue jogging suit, a grey jacket and white jogging shoes with a black stripe. 
Similar incidents were re­ported last fall and spring. Although the physical descrip­tion, namely the blue jogging suit, and methods of approach are similar. Security is unable at this time to make a positive identification or even confirm the possibility that this might be the same person. 
Security was unable to locate the suspect, in spite of the woman's immediate phone call, said Hurley. 
Schedule of Events 
•Junior Parents' Weekend• 
Friday 

1-5 p.m. Notre Dame movies. LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 2:30-8:30 p.m. Hospitality room, Dooley Room, LaFortune 3 p.m. A campus tour will depart from the LaFortune Dooley 
Room. 9 p.m.-1 a.m. From Sea to Shining Sea gala event, Joyce ACC 
Saturday 

10 a.m.-12 p.m. Academic workshops 11 a.m.-4 p.m. Notre Dame movies, LaFortune Montgomery Theatre 
11:45 a.m. Tour of the Snite Museum 12:30-2:30 p.m. Hall luncheons 1-4 p.m. Hospitality room, Dooley Room. LaFortune 1 & 2:30p.m. Shenanigans performance, Snite Annenberg 
Auditorium 

2:30 p.m. Jazz band concert, Washington Hall 2:30-4 p.m. Foreign studies reception, Theodore's 2:30-4:30 p.m. Open house, Center for Social Concerns 2:30-4:30 p.m. ROTC receptions, Pasquerilla Center 3:30-5 p.m. Reception for alumni parents, Monogram room, 
JACC 5 p.m. Mass, South Dome, JACC 7-10 p.m. President's dinner, North Dome, JACC 
Sunday 

9:30 a.m.-12 p.m. Closing brunch, North Dome, JACC 
All events will take place as scheduled despite weather conditions 
Friday, February ~5. ~99~
page 2 
The Observer 
FORECAST: Winter storm warning Friday. 
Cloudy, windy and cold friday with up to 24 incllea of snow accumulating by nightfall. 

TEMPERATURES: 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Some advice 
on the JPW experience 
Well, the weekend we have all been waiting for has finally arrived. Junior Parents Weekend, the 

glorious ~vent that has Lisa Eaton been built up as the . 
epitome of the Notre Productron Manager Dame experience in our Domer minds since the day we arrived on campus as naive freshpeople has come at last. So here are a few wise words for all classes on how to handle the JPW phenomenon as it once again prepares to invade the campus. For all of you freshpeople and sophomores out there, my best advise is for you to go as far away from campus as you possibly can. Unless you are a junior, the scale-o-fun-at­Notre Dame dips into the very negative numbers. Chicago is, of course, a close and reliable option. Culture, food, and fun abound there, so hop on the bus and do not look back. For all of the seniors out there, you know what to do, so I won't waste space trying to tell you. For all of the juniors reading this and waiting for the parental unit to descend on South Bend, this is a very key weekend and it must be planned carefully. For parents who have never been here or have not been here since freshperson year, this is the time for them for to meet all the important people who have shaped your life at Notre Dame. All those people, who on regular weekends have nicknames that are unmentionable in this column and have pictures taken of them that would make incriminating birthday ads, are now well-dressed, showered, and looking like the typical Notre Dame junior. Good im­pressions will abound. Mom and Dad will be so proud because you have such wholesome friends. No one would dare tell them differently. Not only do Mom and Dad get to meet all of your friends, you get to meet the people who created all of your friends and named 2 out of 3 guys on this campus Mike or John and 2 out of 3 girls Mary or Jennifer. You can gain much insight into a person by simply meeting her/his parents, so observe them closely. A word of warning though, if you have some embarrassing moments from your childhood that you do not want leaked to the general public you had better keep a close eye on the conversations your parents have. As you probably know, Mom and Dad's fa­vorite topic of conversation is their Domer darling. Key phrases like "Remember when John was six ... " and "When Mary was in the second grade she... " are dead giveaways that something you probably would rather have forgotten is about to be told to anyone who cares to listen. So, I hope everyone has a fun and exciting JPW-wherever you may be spending it. tp.S. It wouldn't be a bad idea to hit the parental unit up for some funds while they are here, either.) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Thursday's  Staff  
News Peter Loftus  Systems Cesar Capella Edouard Beauvais  

Siobhan McCarthy 

CirculationAccent 
Bill O'Rourke Robyn Simmons Matt Novak 
Charmaine Martinez Michelle Devers 

VIewpoint
Paul Pearson Michael Krause 

Sports Graphics

Rene Ferran Steve Burgun Ann-Marie Conrado 

Scoreboard 

Michael Muldoon Rolando de Aguiar 
Production Usa Bordon Charyl Moser 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the ASSOCiated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FGrecast for noon, Friday, February 15 

LineS stmw hig!l tempetalures

WEATHER REPORT 
::: .;:::.;.;~:;::: ..:_.. :.: ..... 

•·•··.·.·. ~t~t~t~>li:l.¢:·.··· <·······./. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Terrorist bomb scare in Bonn, Berlin 
• BERLIN (AP) -Police shut down the main subway line linking eastern and western Berlin, cordoned ofT streets and evacuated a major station Thursday while they examined a suspicious object that turned out to be a car clutch. An explosives team was c~lled in afte: t~e object was spotted in busy Ttergarten StatiOn m central Berlin. The scare came one day after gunmen fired at the U.S. Embassy in Bonn. The terrorist Red Army Faction claimed responsibility for the incident, which caused no injuries. 
NATIONAL

Boy needs money to test for marrow 
• HUNTINGTON, Ind. (AP) -After struggling to find potential bone marrow donors for her leukemia­stricken son, Jan Cocklin now finds there isn't enough money to test them for compatibility. The Huntington Red Cross has run out of money for the tests, and local residents have told Cocklin they can't afford the $65 test fee to see if they're possible matches for 13-year­old Steve Hamman.The boy was diagnosed in 1988. After he suffered a relapse in November, doctors told the family a bone marrow transplant was his only chance to survive, Cocklin said. The Cocklin family is 
~rently honing t.o obtain donations from companies. 
City Athens Atlanta Baghdad Boston Chicago Dallas-Ft.Wonh Denver 
Detro~ 
Honolulu Houston Indianapolis london los Angeles Madrid Miam Beach Moscow New Orleans New York Paris Philadelphia Portland, Ore. 
Rome 
St. louis San F ranclsco South Bend Tokyo Washington, D.C. 

H  L  
61  54  
56  26  
59  36  
46  38  
27  04  
52  32  
45  22  
30  12  
81  68  
74  38  
32  06  
43  30  
62  56  
48  39  
83  57  
27  21  
72  4 5  
50  34  
34  25  
54  33  
59  44  
46  28  
36  1 0  
66  4 9  
31  211  
54  36  
59  33  

N. Zealand to lift S. African sanctions 
• ROTORUA, New Zealand (AP) -Sporting, cul­tural and academic sanctions against South Africa could be relaxed "within a few weeks," a government ~abinet minister said today. The government be­lieves the measure would be an appropriate response to South Africa's introduction of bills to Parliament to repeal the main apartheid laws, said External Rela­tions and Trade Minister Don McKinnon. President 
F.W. de Klerk of South Africa, pledging to remove the last vestiges of apartheid, on Feb. 1 introduced legis­lation that would repeal the major segregation laws. 
Worry over student deaths dies down 
• CHAMPAIGN, Ill. (AP) -More than 5 550 University of Illinois students given antibiotics ~fter two meningitis-related deaths had little or no chance of contracting the bacteria that caused the deaths, health officials say. Distribution of the antibiotic began after Greg?ry ~ank of Belleville died at Carle Foundation Hospital m Urbana on Saturday. Doctors said the two died of n:'eningococcemia, a blood infection caused by the menmgococcu_s bacteria. There was talk among students of cancelling parties and skipping classes as a result of the meningitis-related deaths. But by Wednesday, UI officials said fear caused by the two deaths began to subside and many students were resuming normal routines. 
OF INTEREST 
• LOGAN .CENTER VOLUNTEERS. As we had to ~ancel ~arhe~ in the week, we will not be going
•SHENANIGANS JPW CONCERTS will perform 
mnertubmg thiS weekend. We will be having regular rec 
twice on Saturday, Feb. 16. Concerts will be held at the and bowling. Questions: call Janet Kunst at 284-5090 orAnnenberg Auditorium in the basement of the Snite at 1 Sally Greene at 283-3783. 
p.m. and 2:30 p.m. 
•ATTENTION JUNIORS INVOLVED with the 
•TODA
y IS THE LAST DAy for submittin works Center fo! Social Concerns! You are inyited to stop by the to Humanitus, the journal of the College of frts and Cen~er w~h your parents. We are hostmg on Open House Letters. Short stories and scholarly essays (any length) on atur ·i?'hFeb. 16 fro.m 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. At 3:30 will be considered for publication in the spring issue. tir:J.~-:~;{.I :how ~llten ~mtut~ video ahnd he.ar from Jan Drop ofT papers in the English Dept. office. °. WI re ec tor a s ort time on her 

vo1unteer experiences. Have a wonderful weekend with 

•JUNIORS: 
BE SURE TO STOP BY the JPW your parents. hospitali~y roo!fl in the Doolef Roon:' in LaFortune to sign •SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 


the registratiOn book which will be a part of a h b . · 8 p.m. at sesquicentennial time capsule. Hospitality room hours are ~c~la~~ r;~ Aul.dtitJo~IUmG. Thde feJistival will close with Friday 2:30-8:30 p.m., Saturday 1-4 p.m. e o~e IS aimy . or en.. er most recent novel is
She Drove Without Stoppmg, which the New York Times calls a "deftly spun picaresque tale of life." 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 14, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 230.75 Million 198.92 {7 2.26 

S&P COMPOSITE 364.22 {7 4.80 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,877.23 {7 31.93 PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD '1} $1.00 to $ 368.20oz. 
SILVER tt 8.1¢ to$ 3.833/oz. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1587: Mary, Queen of Scots, was beheaded at Fotheringhay Castle in England after she was implicated in a plot to kill her cousin, Queen Elizabeth 1. 

• 
In 1904: The Russo-Japanese War began as Japan be­sieged Port Arthur in Manchuria. 

• 
In 1968: Three college students were killed in a con­fro~tation with highway patrolmen in Orangeburg, S.C., during a CIVIl nghts protest against a whites-only bowling alley. 

• 
In 1980: President Carter unveiled a plan to re-intro­duce draft registration, a proposal that included women as well as men. 

• 
Five years ago: Twenty-nine people were killed and 93 were injured when a passenger train and a freight train col­lided in the Canadian province of Alberta. In Yonkers, N.Y., sec­retary Diane Elsroth, 23, died after taking a Tylenol capsule tainted with cyanide. 


, 
Friday, February 15, 1991 The Observer page 3 
when recruiting begins." Saint ues to be an issue that Lowry which is hazardous when icy. rooms to every two people in Mary's needs to know "how to said is being addressed. Both tickets plan to imple­Regina." Quints will be elimi­continued from page 1 appeal to diverse students out "Security will order a cab, they ment recycling programs for nated and replaced with quads, 
Debate 
government" by identifying 
there," with some of the ways pay for it, then you pay them paper and glass. and south Regina will be made
problems and working to over­
being to "increase the number back," she said. However, the Kathy Schmidt, current stu­junior/senior sections with one 
come them. 
of minority professors·and fac­system does not apply to getting dent body president, posed resident assistant to encourage
Alissa Murphy, candidate for 
ulty and provide students with picked up from parties. It is "for questions to the two tickets and students to stay on campus,
student body president; Carla 
awareness of other cultures," walking back from Notre Dame served as an intermediary be­Gilliland added.
Prando, vice president of 
Rhattigan added. and the possibility of date or tween The Observer and the Lowry said that segregated
Academic Affairs; and Greer 
When asked how the acquaintance rape." audience when they were al­halls by class was considered
Gilliland, vice president of 
increase in off-campus student Murphy maintained that "if a lowed to question the candi­but rejected. "Room pick is a
Student Affairs, will appear on 
life is affecting the Saint Mary's student chooses to move off dates. hassle, (but) part of the educa­
the second ticket. It is Murphy's 
community, Lowry said she be­campus, they're responsible to Since the structure of the tional experience is meeting
goal to "make known the rich 
lieved that the choice is "left up be aware of safety precau­student government has both upperclassmen and
tradition of Saint Mary's College 
to the individual but Saint tions." changed this year, Murphy said underclassmen."
"by implementing a plan that 
Mary's should make living on Regarding the underground "the three of us will have to In dealing with tension be­
includes Saint Mary's ap­
campus as appealing as possi­tunnels which link certain work closely to unify depart­tween the Gay/Lesbian Group,
preciation and its connection 
ble." According to Lowry, there buildings on campus, Lowry ments." Lowry said that cohe­the tickets were asked whether
with intellectual life. 
is a current meal plan program acknowledged that "tunnels can siveness will be created by a they support their cause or not.
"The real barrier is a miscon­
problem because it consists of be frightening" and would like "plan/evaluation system so that Murphy stated that they would
ception of what diversity is," 
only one plan. However, she re­to put mirrors in the corners so we can react to planned pro­"go into normal policy, bring
was Prando's response to the 
ported that a 21-or 19-meal that students can see ahead in grams from all (activities)." (the issue} to the Board (of
question of what can be done to 
per week plan will be in effect the tunnels. One of the ideas presented by Trustees) to see if they recog­
make Saint Mary's diverse and 
next year which will be avail­Murphy said she wants to Gilliland is to "have different nize them" and follow the reso­
what barriers there are. 
able to off-campus students. keep the focus on one campus colors of paper (fliers) to better lutions of a group vote.
Prando said that there can be 
Prando claims that they have security, beginning with semi­identify student government ac­Lowry said that if they were
"an increased awareness of 
been "working with Marriott nars during orientation week. tivities. Each group will have a approached by the Gay/Lesbian
people of color by working with 
(food service) to improve the Prando expressed the necessity different color, such as the Life Group, they would "promote
faculty to bring in authors and 
meal plans." She also of working in conjunction with of the Mind series and sports." discussion, not take a side on
economists to demonstrate this 
suggested to move athletic Notre Dame Security. In the area of dorm reforms, the issue, but point out the ad­
issue (diversity)." 
equipment to the Regina Hall Prando promised to "work Murphy said that some new vantages of having one." She
According to Rhattigan. the 
basement and McCandless with the administration to im­ideas are already in the pro­stated that students at Saint
lack of diversity can be at­
Hall. prove the walk from cess. Next year it has been pro­Mary's seek a well-rounded ed­
tacked at "the high school level 
Off-campus security contin-McCandless to the library," posed that there be "three ucation and should be able to be exposed to what they have ~················--···••++•••••••] 

to offer. "They shouldn't be 
alienated," Lowry said. 
~ 

If the candidates could ac­
iNotre Dame Communication and Theatret 
RN(Mmlnt& 

complish only one of their 
Cocktaltl-.

: announces : 
goals, Lowry said she wishes to
Au!roendc Szechuan, 

get involved with a nationwide
t.Aandatin l




\YALL 
i 
network of 93 women's colleges called Student Alliance of
: 
cama£ Indudes:
Auditions for + IEWYEU Women's Colleges. She said that 
soup,a~un,

BUFFET eight entrees, and "women's colleges are not
The Good Woman of Setzuan • .... desserts appealing now. We need to 
make the advantages known to t by Bertolt Brecht 130 Dixie w.,8., South Bend (next to Randal's Inn) women by promoting (them)." : English version by Eric Bentley + Murphy would "stress the 
i i 
tradition of Saint Mary's." That
. :~---------------------------------, includes "an awareness of
i Directed by Frederic Syburg t WEEKEND PRESIDERS : • at Sacred Heart Church 
• Monday, February 18 at 7:00 P.M. : First Sunday of Lent 
+ Tuesday, February 19 at 7:00 P.M. : : Laboratory Theatre--Washingt0n Hall : Saturday, February 16 + + 5:00pm Fr. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
: No preparation is necessary for the audition. : Sunday, February 17 t Scripts are available in 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall. .• 10:00am Fr. John Lahey, C.S.C. 1 11:45am Fr. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
founding sisters and alumnae." There should be emphasis in Freshmen Orientation on tradi­tion, which may result in greater appreciation, she said. 
~-----················................ L-----------""'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii=:...---------~-­

Come Watch Irish Hoops on 5 TVs 
•Nightly Specials 
• Dart Tournaments 
Fri +Sat 5-7 p.m. Show Student I D And Receive A Free Appetizer 

All you can eat 2 -topping pizza for only$6 a person 
Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 4:30-2/Fri. 4:30-3/ Sat. 12-3/ Sun. 12-12 
1602 Ironwood Dr., South Bend 



page4 
Friday, February 15, 1991 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 




After month of bombing, troops await battle 

~Mother of All Battles." said. "Triple-A (anti-aircraft their armored column. Under ers and 400 of its 3,200 artillery 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) Allied briefings exude confi­fire) is all over the place. You heavy assault. they held Khafji pieces, U.S. estimates say. Iraqi -As day fades into day, all is dence, explaining with charts bet we're worried. It only takes for 36 hours. POWs total more than 1,400. nearly quiet on the northern and film clips how Iraq cannot one." Support back home is over­Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, front. Rumbling is muffled by hold out much longer after Veteran officers note that whelming, the old-timers know, the U.S. commander, refuses to distance. Guards change with more than 70,000 air sorties, Saddam's deadliest ground­but they wonder how fast it guess at body counts, and whispers at night. The old cruise missile attacks and naval support aircraft have yet to be might erode when grim-faced intelligence officers say they raucous banter is gone. bombardment. spotted, much less destroyed. messengers from the Pentagon cannot gauge human casualties 
The war is now a month old. In the field, commanders play French-made Super Frelon he­begin rapping on doors in Des from bombing or naval shelling. For most of the half-million al­it day-by-day. At headquarters, licopters, with Exocet missiles, Moines. But, with 530,000 men sent to lied soldiers who will do the generals push for quick victory, lurk somewhere in Iraq. Thus far. allied ground com­the Kuwait theater from Iraq's fighting, it r'emains a dreaded fearful of any ominous phrase A tyrant prepared to open oil bat deaths are 12 U.S. Marines, million-man army, plenty of thrill yet to come. Their enemy that might suggest a turn down valves and poison coastal wa­eight of them killed by friendly troops are left for a showdown. is hurting, but no one can say a Vietnam-like trail, such as ters for decades is not likely to fire. Iraqi guns have downed 25 how badly with any accuracy. 'light at the end of the tunnel'. balk at raining chemical ar­aircraft. Eight coalition soldiers The Saddam Line hooks from 
Old war movies and westerns "We'll win; this won't be tillery shells on troops advanc­are known prisoners; 28 more Kuwait City down the Persian are on everyone's mind. Soon it Vietnam, but we will pay a ter­ing to breach his defenses. they are missing. Gulf, across the bottom of the will be High Noon, most of them rible price," said a senior officer say. occupied emirate and westward are convinced, but they can who feared reprimand, if However demoralized and According to the U.S. com­into Iraq. Along much of it, a only guess how soon. In a named, from generals seeking underfed Iraqi ground troops mand, 40 Iraqi warplanes were double row of 12-foot sand month? Tomorrow? And, most to buoy spirits back home. might be, few can surrender shot down, with more than 100 walls rise behind deep moats. wonder, then what? A ranking U.S. Navy pilot, without facing mine fields in destroyed on the ground. 
A blitzkrieg in the air crippled back from hammering yet an­front or executioners' bullets Counting 147 aircraft in Iran, Half a million mines form an Iraq's air force and small navy other vital target in Iraq, behind them. that amounts to half of Sad­outer ring of defense and many with ease. Yet legions of sea­snorted at suggestions that Saddam lost the first fight, at dam's air force. more are expected to be scat­soned Republican Guards and Saddam might be on his knees. Khafji, but his men fought hard, Air strikes knocked out 700 of tered on the way toward forti­drafted cannon fodder wait in "He has thousands of artillery running off Saudi troops until Iraq's 4,000 tanks, 600 of its fications at Kuwait City, ac­bunkers for Saddam Hussein's pieces out there, thousands," he U.S. Marine gunners destroyed 4,000 armored personnel carri-cording to U.S. Marine officers. 
tos and other sources, that the Just a few hundred yards concrete facility was being used from the ruins, 5,000 mourners
Gulf 
as a military command-and­marched to the neighborhood continued from page 1 control center. They said they cemetery to bury some of the 
were unaware it harbored any dead, in Iraqi flag-draped bomber was lost while attack­civilians. coffins lowered into a mass ing Iraqi airfields. grave, Associated Press corre­Its two crewmen were listed as Specialists at Jane's, the spondent Dilip Ganguly re­missing. British military-affairs publish­ported from Baghdad. 
In Baghdad, the day-after ing house, said they believed it "Bush, Bush, you will pay!" scenes were etched in sadness might actually have been a two­the crowd chanted. and hate. level, dual-use bunker -a Later, speaking to reporters, 
Body after body was pulled in bomb shelter atop a military the Iraqi information minister, grisly procession from the rub­facility. Asked Thursday Latif Jassim, delivered a more ble of the underground struc­whether this "rings true," official condemnation of the ture bombed by U.S. warplanes Pentagon operations director U.S. president: "We are told early Wednesday, while it was Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly said, that Hitler burned the Jews. crowded with civilians seeking "No, it does not." Now Bush is burning Iraqi chil­refuge from air attacks. The death toll remained dren." 
uncertain, in part because For their part. the Americans 
Palestine Liberation workers still had not reached have blamed President Saddam Organization head Yasser all areas of the shattered Hussein and the rest of the Arafat visited the site and structure. Iraqi leadership for the tragedy, pledged solidarity with Iraq. Civil defense officials esti­saying they deliberately put ''I'm truly astonished at what mated more than 500 died, civilians "in harm's way" at a has happened," he told re­mostly women and children. A potential target. porters. "It has exceeded com­mortuary director said 288 Marine Brig. Gen. Richard pletely the mandate of the bodies had been removed, in­Neal, a U.S. command United Nations. It is a crime." cluding 91 children, CNN's spokesman in Riyadh, was 
Peter Arnett reported. asked at the daily news briefing 
The Iraqis said it was only a Reporters at the scene counted in the Saudi capital whether the civilian bomb shelter. But U.S. at least 40 corpses, many de­command would consider an­officials said they had indis­capitated or missing limbs, ex­nouncing its bombing targets in putable evidence, from radio tricated over one 90-minute pe­advance to warn civilians to intercepts, reconnaissance ho-riod Thursday. stay away. 



AP Photo A soldier from the U.S. 18th Airborne Corps artillery unit throws a toot­ball during a stand down day in Saudi Arabia Monday. Troops from vari­ous units in Saudi Arabia were given Monday off. 
THE SISTERS of NEFERTITI present: 
~~ ~/AfP~~~~a©~ a~ ~[}\]WIJ[}\]lMI&! 
[M[}\]'tl[MJ~ 
Friday, Feb. 15, 1991 at 8:30pm SMC's Carroll Auditorium Party with D] to follow the ceremony! Admission to both is FREE!!! 
SMC and NO students will perform Skits, Black Poetry, Readings, Dance, and Songs, etc. 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Ad Design Manager-An enthusiastic and computer­oriented person is needed to use her creative talents to produce high quality and professional ads for Observer clients. Macintosh experience is a plus. . 
Art Director-A motivated person is needed to use his creative talents in the areas of both computer graphics and illustrations. Applicants should have examples of illustrations and experience with Macintosh graphics programs. 
Production Manager-An energetic and enthusiastic leader is sought to manage the computer-aided design of the newspaper. Experience with Macintosh desktop publishing programs is preferred. 
A resume and a two-page personal statement should be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 pm Friday, Feb.l5. Questions about these positions should be directed to Kelley or Lisa at 239-5303. 



Friday, February 15, 1991 page 5 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
--------------------------------------~ 


Iraqi mourners cry out for revenge of deaths 
Kuwaiti reports increase of Iraqi executions in Kuwait 

Welcome Junior Parents 
"Since 1981" 

@a..l~i'~ 
Chicken Marsal a ''The Italian Ristorante" 
Dinner 4 p.m. 

My oes are the source 
Sundays 4 -9 p.m. 

of mypower 
~ = (219) 232-4244 
South of Notre Dame's Golden Dome 1412 South Bend Avenue 

A.D. Jen Lisa Kris Mike Sean 


BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -Iraqi mourners marched alongside flag-covered coffins Thursday, firing automatic rifles into the air and crying out for revenge for the U.S. air strike that Iraq said killed hundreds in a shel­ter. 
"By God we swear, we will make them pay their blood for this crime!" members of the crowd of 5.000 yelled. "The death of our women and chil­dren will not go unavenged!" 
Scores more bodies were pulled from the building that was blasted apart early Wednesday by U.S. warplanes, and a Cabinet minister depicted President Bush as a war crimi­nal comparable to Hitler -a comparison Bush himself has used when speaking of Saddam Hussein. 
The Iraqi military reported nearly 400 allied air raids late Wednesday and early Thursday, including 135 against "residential targets" across the country and 251 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)­Iraq has stepped up executions inside occupied Kuwait, killing 200 people since the allied air campaign began, a Kuwaiti air force colonel said Thursday. 
Col. Abdullah EI-Kandari also accused Iraq of adopting a double standard when it came to Iraqi versus Kuwaiti civilian fatalities. 
Iraq has strongly condemned the deaths of Iraqi civilians in allied air raids, but has re­mained silent regarding the deaths of scores of Kuwaitis reportedly killed by Iraqi forces 
sorties against military targets in the southern war zone. It said one allied plane was shot down, but gave no details. 
Iran's official Islamic Repub­lic News Agency said the south­ern Iraqi port city of Basra un­derwent intensive attacks, aimed primarily at an oil refin­ery and petrochemical complex. 
The agency also reported numerous other raids, one of them targeting the southeast­ern town of al-Qurna, the re­puted location of the biblical Garden of Eden. 
The manager of Baghdad's al-Rashid hotel, meanwhile, de­nied U.S. claims that his estab­lishment housed a military communications center, and al­lowed foreign reporters to search the 14-story building. 
The death toll from Wednes­day's raid remained uncertain, in part because rescuers had not yet reached all areas of the shattered above-and-below­ground shelter. 
since it seized the emirate. 
"Saddam Hussein is allowing controlled reports to come out of Baghdad, but no photos or reports whatsoever have come out of Kuwait since the Aug. 2 invasion," El-Kandari said at briefing. 
Also Thursday, Kuwait's inte­rior minister, Sheik Salem al­Sabah, said most Kuwaitis will be unable to return home for about three months after Iraqi forces are expelled from the country. 
Al-Sabah said he understood the longing of his compatriots to 

j 

··-:: i 
, I 
··:; 

··., ... 


"'*' 


AP Photo 

Iraqis walk the streets as smoke billows over this downtown Baghdad bridge across the Tigris river Thursday. Iraqi anti-American sentiment is high after U.S. bombs caused civilian deaths Wednesday in a Baghdad bunker that the Allies claimed to have contained military personnel. 
U.S. Air Force Sr. Airman Conley Blankenship of West Virginia, loads 5001b, bombs Wednesday on a trailer that will transport them to waiting f-15s in airbase in central Saudi Arabia for bombing runs over Iraq and Kuwait. The planes are loaded with 12 of the bombs and 2 sidewinder missiles. 
return to their cr .mtry, but 
insisted that thev ..vould have to 
be patient. Ho: ·said the three 
months were needed to rehabil­
itate the country and to "purge 
Kuwait of a fifth column," ap­
parently referring to civilian 
supporters of Iraq. 
Al-Sabah's remarks were 
carried by the official Kuwaiti 
news agency, monitored in 
Bahrain. 
At the Riyadh briefing, El­
Kandari said Kuwaitis in Saudi 
Arabia lost contact with the re­
sistance inside Kuwait a week 
ago after the Iraqis apparently 
~ 
$ r 
AP Photo 
seized the satellite telephones the Kuwaiti resistance had been using. 
He said before the links were cut, the Kuwaitis reported that 200 people had been executed in Kuwait since the allied bombing campaign began on Jan. 17. There was no way to independently determine how many people have been killed in Kuwait by the occupying forces. 
El-Kandari speculated that the Iraqis were "taking revenge for the air campaign against Iraq by killing civilians inside Kuwait." 

Illinois Rep. insists on use of nukes as option 
YAKIMA. Wash. (AP)-The United States should use nu­clear weapons on dug-in Iraqi soldiers rather than risk Amer­ican lives to root them out, U.S. Rep. Phil Crane, R-Ill., said. 
"If the Republican Guard is dug in and determined to fight. it is an option that has to re­main open," Crane said in an interview before giving a Lin­coln Day speech to Yakima-area Republicans Wednesday. 
Crane also called Saddam Hussein's invasion of Kuwait a "blessing" because it gave the United States cause to destroy Hussein's military power. 
In the interview, Crane said he would favor using neutron weapons against Iraqi strongholds. Neutron weapons produce more deadly radiation than older nuclear warheads, but less than one-tenth as much explosive power, heat and fall­out. 

"They don't destroy build­ings," Crane said. "They simply kill." 
U.S. Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., has said the deadly weapons should be used as a last resort before sending in American ground forces. 
However, critics have said using nuclear weapons in the Persian Gulf War would further erode U.S. relations in the Arab world, jeopardize the United Nations alliance against Iraq and undermine U.S. policy re­garding nuclear proliferation. 
Crane was elected to the House in 1969 and was a presi­dential candidate in 1980. 
Many of those killed had been held for months, El-Kandari said. He said 65 Kuwaitis were killed in the four days prior to the phone line being cut. Some had been beheaded, he said, and some of the corpses were left in front of their family homes for up to 36 hours. 
He also said the Kuwaiti re­sistance had evidence that Iraq is preparing for an allied am­phibious landing, including bricking up the windows of houses at strategic positions along the shore, apparently to fortify Iraqi defensive positions. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA TOP 10 PICKS 

DOMINO'S POLL 
UNLV  20-0  
'  Ohio State  19-1  
Arkansas  23-2  
Indiana  22-2  
Duke  21-4  
Syracuse  20-3  
Arizona  19-4  
Southern Miss  17-2  
North Carolina  17-4  
Kansas  17-4  

Call about our 30th Anniversary Special! Employment Opportunities Available. MONDAY-TUESDAY : SUNDAY DOUBLE ANY DAY SPECIAL
SPECIAL FEATURE : I 
I 
l Get aLuge Cheese piZZa for $499 l $599 $10 95
$4.99. Addinonal toppings GettwoSmall
1 1 one-topping pizzas Get two Large
91¢ each. Good on Monday one-topping pizzas
1 for $5.99. Good
I and Tuesday only. for $10.95.
1 Sunday only.





II 1 
I . I 
II~ II.I · • I 
V... ll~crlly NolvaldlfllllhanyOI'III'OI'Iefs CUSIOtnetpayssalestu Valldlf~IIOntsonly NolvalldMftiiW!yOhlrofltrs CustomlrpayssaieSIU Valldat~sb'M.onty Nolvalld'Mth~olwolt&rs Cutlomerpayssala&IIX
I -----~...... -<*MngCM'"-cany""""'I2UOO I ---""""Y...........,.........._a..__........ $2000 I ---o...o.y..........., .......... """''CM ...... _, ........$2000 
I 

dnwrs are narpenaiad biUtdfillvenee Our!tMnn natpet'llliNd'lorlatl dlllwanes O..OINirs we not Plf\d2ed lor'-OIIrvenes 
L-------------~~h~>.~~ l.-------------Good_;h~ ~1:!: ..1_------------~hN ~~~ _j 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 289-0033 816 Ponage Ave.
1835SouthBendAve. 
C1990 Oomino"s Piua. Inc. 

Friday, February 15,1991 The Observer page 7 
Award to be presented
•

for merits 1n Angers 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's Office of International Study Programs has announced a special award for senior students returned from the Angers foreign study program. 
The $200 award, named after Charles Parnell, professor emeritus of romance languages and literatures at Notre Dame, and his wife, Simone, is to be given annually to a senior from Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College who attended the Angers Program and "has demonstrated a high level of in­ternational awareness and so­cial service activities participa­tion." 
Nominations for the Charles and Simone Parnell Award are to be made by junior and senior Angers returnees on forms available from the International Study Programs office. The deadline for nominations is March 8. 
Charles and Simone Parnell were instrumental in the 1965 founding of the Angers program at the Univerisitie Catholique de 
C'MON FUENTES, GET BIG! 
From, 
)'Ouest. Charles Parnell directed the program in the past. The Parnells have re­ceived previous honors both from the University and from the city of Angers. Also, in 1988, Charles Parnell was made an honorary citizen ofAngers. 
The award has been made possible by a gift from Charles Roedig, professor emeritus of romance languages and litera­tures. 
The following seniors are el­igible for the award: Michelle Bolduc, Matthew Borkowski, Matthew Bridenstine, Rachel Brochert, Stephen Cannon, Siobhan Carroll, Shannon Casey, Christine Ciletti, Kevin Degnan,. Matthew Desmond, Wade Edwards, Jill Fuglister, Elizabeth Gisch (SMC), Larissa Godish, Carrie Goethals (SMC), Sinane Goulet, Joan Kearns, Tracy Labin, Elizabeth Leveno, Matthew Mergen, Megan Noone, Gregory Olson, Kathleen Shinners (SMC), Edward Smith, Mary Ellen Townsend, Karen Walsh (SMC), Julie Yoon, Joseph 
H 
A 
p p y 20th 
"T," SULLY, and GREG 
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, FEB. 11 
10:53 a.m. A construction super· intendant reported vandalism to two doors outside a lecture room in the .Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
11 a.m. A Siegfried resident reported the theft of four hubcaps from her automobile in the D2 lot. 
2:21 p.m. Security cited an off-campus student for failing to stop at a stop sign. 
4:47 p.m. Security questioned a subject caught shoplifting from the Bookstore. 
6:30 p.m. A Walsh resident reported being approached by a suspicious person in a blue jogging suit who asked to be punched in the stomach. 
TUESDAY, FEB.12 
10:30 a.m. Security responded to an automobile accident on Corby Hall Drive. One of the cars sustained properly damage. 
5:19 p.m. Security and the Fire Department responded to a medical alert at the Computer Math Building. The victim was transported by ambulance to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
5:44 p.m. Security responded to a hit and run accident in the Red Field West lot. A parked car had been struck by an unknown vehicle and sustained property damage. 
6:49 p.m. An ott-campus resident reported the theft of his sweatshirt and ID from outside the Rockne Memorial second floor gymnasium. 
WEDNESDAY, FEB.13 
3 a.m. A Security officer noticed vandalism to an automobile in the D2 lot while making a security check of the lot. The passenger window had been shattered. The owner of the car was notified and noticed that his radar detector had been stolen. 

Pain reliever reported to up risk of ulcers 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -The widely used pain reliever ibuprofen doubles the risk of ulcers, according to Vanderbilt University researchers, and some experts say people taking it may want to consider lower doses or alternatives. 
But for those suffering chronic pain and inflammation, researchers said ibuprofen may be the best choice, as it has the lowest ulcer risk among the drugs studied. Those drugs be­long to a prescription class called non-steroidal anti-in­flammatory drugs or NSAIDs. 
"Occasional low-dose users should not be concerned about the increased risk," said the study's lead author, Dr. Marie Griffin. "It is unlikely that tak­ing one or 2 ibuprofen (pills) several times a month poses any significant risk." 

NASCCU 
continued from page 1 
Tombar said that the University has several obliga­tions in the face of "the AIDS pandemic. As a university we should not only provide rudi­mentary education in the basic scientific understanding of AIDS and the education of how one can come in contact with 

lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship Large Group Meeting DR. THOMAS V. MORRIS 
(Assoc. Prof. of Philosophy, Univ. of Notre Dame) On 'PASCAL on love and life of the Body' 
6:30 pm Friday , Feb. 15 ~ Keenan-Stanford Chapel '1' 
The researchers did not study aspirin, which is also an NSAID, but said that aspirin is "at least" as risky as ibuprofen. Acetaminophen, used in the pain reliever Tylenol, is not an NSAID and is not associated with ulcers. 
The Vanderbilt study confirms the increased risk of ulcers in people who used the prescription NSAIDs studied, and also found that the overall risk increased with higher doses and was greatest in the first month of use. 
Ibuprofen, available without a prescription since 1985, is sold under such brand names as Advil, Medipren, Motrin and Nuprin. It has captured about 20 percent of the $2.5 billion non-prescription pain-reliever market. As the prescription drug Motrin, it has annual sales of $46 million. 
the disease, but as a Catholic university we should somehow address the issue of under­standing and compassion in re­lating to a person with AIDS," he said. 
In additional business, Cataldo was elected the execu­tive vice-president for financial affairs. Jennifer-Paige Willenberg of Saint Mary's was elected a NASCCU regional di­rector. 
Clarification 
A lecture given by Professor Rashid Khalidi on Tuesday night was sponsored by both the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. The Observer re­grets the error. 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.,. S.C. 
invites all Junior Accounting and Finance Majors to a-presentation on 


INTERVIEWING 
Tuesday, February 19, 1991 At 7:00p.m. Monogram Room 
Dress is Casual Reception/Refreshments to Follow 




Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, February 15, 1991 

1 
11 
if 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Edltor·ln.Chlef Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VI-point Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Lowry ticket deserves your vote 
No matter what the results of the Saint Mary's Student Body elections, Saint Mary's students cannot lose. 
Both the Maureen Lowry and Alissa Murphy tickets were quite impressive and would serve the Saint Mary's community well. However, the Lowry ticket stood out as being particularly articulate and informed. 
Lowry, and her running mates Colleen Rhattigan, for Vice-President of Academic Affairs, and Meg McGowan, for Vice-President of Student Activities, were well-versed in the recent extensive changes that have been made to the structure of Saint Mary's government. 
Lowry was equally as impressive addressing the se­curity concerns of Saint Mary's students. She proposed specific changes, such as placing emergency phones at various checkpoints along Saint Mary's Road, as well as the continuation of programs that provide cab service to students who are in uncomfortable situations off-campus. The ticket also wishes to provide date rape prevention seminars specifically geared at freshman. 
Lowry's pride in Saint Mary's College was evident throughout the debate. She was quite strong and ar­ticulate in her assertions that Saint Mary's students can take pride in its own unique tradition. Her involvement in founding the Alliance of Women's Colleges and her desire to bring it to Saint Mary's is evidence of her commitment to the benefits of women's colleges such as Saint Mary's. 
Lowry also had a firm grasp of the spiritual aspect of Saint Mary's. She wishes to see the spiritual component of the community extended to all religions. 
The ticket is also commendable in its ability to tackle controversial questions. While conceding that Saint Mary's is a Catholic institution, Lowry noted that the sheltering aspects of the community must be removed in order to prepare graduates for the real world. She hopes to see a Christian attitude exhibited towards all groups on campus, including the gays and lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The Lowry, Rhattigan, and McGowan ticket deserves your vote, as they are prepared to handle the many de­mands of the offices they seek in an experienced, dedi­cated and realistic manner. 
DOONESBURY 

NO lacks support for public interest law program 
Notre Dame students should be given the opportunity to practice what this University preaches. I came to Notre Dame because I want to go into public interest law, and Notre Dame has a reputation for supporting social concerns. My first week, an employee of the law school suggested that if I took a job in public interest right after graduation, the school's average for incomes upon graduation would go down. I was shocked. I am now in the second semester of my second year and am sad to say I'm becoming accustomed to hostile or apathetic attitudes towards public interest law. 
Notre Dame Law School neglects the interests and needs of students who want to prac­tice public interest law. The curriculum provides only lim­ited offerings in this area, and some of the most vital courses 
(e.g. bankruptcy) are not of­fered. Organizations stimulat­ing interest and information are student organized and student run, with little involvement from the faculty or administra­tion. It is difficult to obtain in­formation about job opportuni­ties in this area, and the place­ment efforts of the school de­emphasize non-corporate and non-firm positions. 
Even if a student is motivated enough to discover a public in­terest position, no money is available to allow her to accept the position unless she is inde­pendently funded. Notre Dame students are at a disadvantage in a field which is becoming in­creasingly competitive. Many organizations cannot pay in­terns, and funding is an essen­tial criterion. I have been crossed off the list of more than one organization because the applicants from other schools came with funding. Especially considering Notre Dame's 
Meagan Mackenzie 
Guest Columnist 
purported concern with the public interest realm, it is very embarrassing to admit to prospective employers that funding opportunities here are practically nonexistent. 
The few options available to students are woefully inade­quate. First, a Student Funded Fellowship program is available to applicants selected by a committee from the law school. Students earning enough money pledge a percentage of their summer earnings toward students interested in public interest jobs. The program has provided summer opportunities to students who would other­wise be forced to reject a public interest offer. However, the program is grossly underfunded when compared to both the demand for funding and the amounts pledged by students at other universities. This pro­gram should be expanded, and the University should consider either initiating separate fund· ing or increasing its current support of "matching the stu­dent pledge amount with tuition remission." 
Secondly, the Center for Social Concerns and the Notre Dame Alumni Association co­ordinate a "Summer Service Project"program. Through this program, students can get a certain amount of tuition ex­cused through money donated by alumni. This program sometimes provides room and board for students who are able to stay in the facility where they work or in some religious facilities (convents, etc.). Again, this is an important but limited program. Students who need money for rent and food during the summer cannot utilize this program unless a room and board facility is available. Even 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
with such, it is impossible for married students or students with dependents to take advan­tage of this program. Again, the funding is limited, and not every worthy position receives support. 
Finally, a work study program is-available. Under this program, the University makes a contract with the employer whereby 75 percent of the student's salary is paid out of work study money and 25 percent is paid by the employer. These contracts are extremely limited, and currently they are only available to students working locally. This is federal money. It should be available to any student who is eligible as a "public interest" program. Although people at the work study and financial aid offices say this money could be used other then locally, attempts to make this hypothetical concrete have failed. 
I am unaware of any option which the University itself funds. The few programs pro­vided by this institution are funded by students, alumni and the federal government. I could have done better attending a state school. I feel cheated and disillusioned that Notre Dame is not what it purports to be. I'm sure many students, faculty and staff agree with me. 
I have actually been disadvantaged in the field of public interest law because I chose to rely on the false selling techniques of the law school. This law school should either start giving students real opportunities to get involved in the world of public interest or it should honestly state and advertise the emphasis on traditional, firm and corporate law. 
Meagan J. MarKenzie is a second year law student 

SO HCWS IT60-ON 7H&U.S5. ING, SOLPieR.? M/31<?Y, 9VRT! AN!/ WHO ffJST-ll?.tWMA 7Hb 8E-'5TUTTZ.t AR8Y~ CITY, I'M HOSPITAl-5HIP MAN? 
61/t931NSl IN 7Hb 6UtF.1 
I 
\ 
I 
I'M t:N516N TI?JP TRIPU3R t BUT THe 6ANG HeRe IN 7Ht 5UR6/CAL-UNIT CAU-M& ''HAIA!I<&Y8''1 
\ 
NO, fa Wtu,I'M f)()N'T. f.NCOURAGING 7H&M7Dl
I \ 
'We often repeat what we have said, but never, never, of that which we have not.' 
Thomas Jefferson 


Viewpoint
Friday, February 15, 1991 page 9 
Hispanic student rejects association with SUFR demands 
Dear Editor: 
As founder of Notre Dame's chapter of the League of United Latin American Citizens, our nation's largest and oldest Hispanic American civic orga­nization. I feel compelled to pronounce a Hispanic opinion of a group calling itself SUFR which purports to represent the views of minority students at Notre Dame. With our nation at war and the climate of uneasiness that has descended upon Notre Dame's campus, I 
demands to University Vice­President Patricia O'Hara. Demanding, among other ab­surdities, that every Notre Dame student be required to take courses in minority studies and participate in racial sensi­tivity seminars, campus blacks have taken the politics of race and ideology of "political cor­rectness" to new lows. And they presume and claim that Hispanics, the single largest ethnic minority on campus, are behind them. Wrong. 
Under the guise of being an organization representing the views of Hispanics (campus blacks have a habit of implicat­ing Hispanics without our con­sent), SUFR has emerged to soft-pedal black grievances. Goaded by the Office of Minority Affairs, this group is demanding that the University of Notre Dame-a leading, na­tional, Catholic, educational in­stitution which has in numerous instances compromised its admission standards and doled out grants so that minorities could attend this University-is demanding that Notre Dame further compromise its stan­dards of excellence. If the sanc­timonious acronym SUFR isn't ridiculous enough (What! You have no party room? Someone offended you? How you suffer!), 
these black students are 
insisting on the establishment 
of a racial harassment 
policy-that is, if anyone says 
anything or writes anything 
disagreeable to a black or 
Hispanic student they may be 
subject to reprimand and even 
expulsion. 
In the case of our professors, blacks want carte blanche au­thority to make wild accusa­tions, impugn reputations, and perhaps even jeopardize tenure. Anyone that has been here at Notre Dame for a least a year knows that blacks have attempted to do so before, and they'll do it again. SUFR also demands minority representa­tion on the faculty in propor­tion to the minority representa­tion in the student body and tenure for all black professors, insisting now that Notre Dame compromise its standards for faculty. What all of these efforts amount to is a rationalization of academic incompetence. That is, some blacks want to attribute poor academic performance to a contrived climate of oppression and suffering rather than to their own lack of qualifications, initiative, and drive. And by proselytizing other minorities, especially Hispanics, they make this delusion that much more 
ferocious. 
As the recent controversy surrounding a failed attempt in Arizona to enact a State holi­day in memorial to Martin Luther King, Jr. illustrated, blacks have impressively mas­tered the techniques of group blackmail. Here at Notre Dame, SUFR wrote in its list of de­mands that it "will act accord­ingly" if the University makes no concessions. It is my hope that Notre Dame's Board of Trustees does not respond like the NFL has in Arizona. Succumbing to the hardball po­litical extortion of blacks, the NFL is now threatening the voters of Arizona with a change of venue for the 1993 Super Bowl unless Arizonans enact a holiday to honor King (not for his plagiarism and womanizing, I hope). "At long last," blacks exhort in marches and demonstrations, "Give us our rights! Give us our dignity! Give us a paid state holiday from work and school!" 
Last year, the National Urban League, a mainstream black organization, cited the compen­sation awarded by Congress to Japanese Americans intended during World War II and de­manded reparations for every black in America in excess of $100 billion! And on ABC's Good Morning America the stu­dent body president of Morehouse College, King's alma mater, inveighed against the war in the Gulf-not because this war is unjust and another instance of wanton American aggression-but because the United States chose Jan. 15, King's birthday, to start the countdown to war. Showing all the characteristics for a promising career in black poli­tics, this young demagogue waxed Marxist and divined a conspiracy from the military effort, arguing that black sol­diers were being deployed in disproportionate numbers to the Middle East and then placed on the front lines in one of many efforts to systematically eliminate the black race! Such pabulum flies in the face of the rational and moral discourse that is essential to political em­powerment in the United States. Why, then should blacks be surprised that neither Hispanics nor the whole nation is prepared to embrace them? And, given this national exam­ple, why should we at Notre Dame be surprised to see blacks behave as they have in 
their latest caper on campus? 
Blacks have constantly and officiously insisted that Hispanics kowtow to black leadership in campus affairs and in the larger spectrum of national life. Indeed, blacks seem to be consoled by the gen­erally sorry state of affairs in the Hispanic-American com­munity. High flown rhetoric about coalition and common suffering must not blind us to the fact that while blacks' con­dition grows worse and Hispanics' progressively better our interests will not coincide. Blacks have self-righteously mistaken their interests for universal principles of moral and political economy. Here at Notre Dame, SUFR has con­tacted the Associated Press and United Press International and has paraded students on local television to disparage our University. Hispanics want no association with such outra­geous behavior and be assured that we will communicate this to members of the Board of Trustees. 
A proud Domer, the son of parents who labored in the cot­ton fields and orchards of Texas, and a member of an ethnic group that has been bestowed with more U.S. Congressional Medals of honor for its valor in battle than any in our nation, I will not allow campus blacks to exploit my history and Hispanic student organizations for their own un­conscionable gain and to raise havoc at Notre Dame. 
Paul Peralez Dillon Hall 
Feb.11,1991 


It is possible to support the troops while questioning validity of war 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to 
several recent letters to the edi­tor urging support for the troops in the Gulf. Certainly, as ·fellow human beings, these troops deserve all the support and love we can give them. However, in spite of several confident arguments to the 
been just cause for this war. 
However, just cause is only 
one of the necessary conditions 
for a just war. Was this war an 
act of last resort? I am not 
convinced that it was. Many 
cite the fact that Hussein has 
not responded to the 
devastation of his country by 
allied bombing as confirmation 
that sanctions would never 
have worked. Yet, Hussein 
does not make decisions in a 
vacuum, and we cannot assume 
he would have made the same 
choice regardless of the 
position that the U. S. took. I 
would contend that inflexibility 
will generally be met with 
inflexibility and am not 
surprised that Hussein has not 
retreated with his tail dragging 
between his legs. 
What about proportionality? 
Will the costs of this war 
outweigh the benefits? 
According to Ramsey Clark, the 
former U.S. Attorney General 
who visited Baghdad this week, 
estimates of Iraqi deaths re­
sulting from allied bombings 
are upwards of several thou­
sand. The typical military re­sponse is that "collateral dam­age" is inevitable in war. Does that make it just or inoral? President Bush says we have no quarrel with the Iraqi people-yet they are suffering. Should they be required to suffer for the crimes of their governor, a dictator? What about the Israelis; you ask? 
Hussein would have used Scud missiles against Israel if war had not broken out, it is clear that he did use these weapons once the war began-just as he said he would. This targeting of innocent civilians cannot be de­fended. 
Nevertheless, we knew (because he told us what he would do) that this was a po­tential consequence of war. We call Hussein irrational and "a madman" yet we left him the decision to choose war or peace. Is it rational to leave de­cisions concerning matters of life or death to someone who is supposedly irrational? And what about American lives? How many are we willing to sacrifice for his cause? Casualties have been relatively low thus far, but there will be an extreme increase once the ground war begins. 
In response to the above questions, many will quickly point out that Hussein had to be stopped. After all, we learned from World War II that aggression cannot be tolerated. Without even addressing the accuracy (or the oversimplifica­tion) of the analogy between World War II and the current crisis, it can be argued that we were not appeasing Hussein by avoiding war. We sent troops to Saudi Arabia to deter further aggression and took concrete steps not to appease him by imposing the most compre­
ever attempted. (And, no, five months is not a long enough time for even the most compre­hensive sanctions to work as most economic experts have indicated.) 
An additional argument that has been made against my views is that now that the choice has been made, we must unite in support of both the troops and the war. While im­mediately before war broke out, a survey indicated that 46 % of the population believed that sanctions should be con­tinued and 4 7% believed that offensive action should be used at once. As soon as war erupted, the approval rating for the war rose to over 80%. 
Thus. it seems that although many may have initially been opposed to the use of force,' they fear that their failure to support the war would be more devastating to the troops than war itself. The one lesson that people seem to have learned from Vietnam is that we can't have American troops fighting "with one hand tied behind their backs." 
Were there not other lessons from Vietnam? I can think'of at least two. First, the domino theory is not always applicable, as the history of Vietnam after the war has shown. Second, the government may lead us into conflicts that are neither as easily resolved or as black and white as they would have us 
The above point brings me to several more questions. Is morality in the current conflict black and white, as Bush vehe­mently argues? If we will not tolerate aggression, on princi­ple, then why did we not only tolerate Iraq's aggression against Iran but side with Iraq during that conflict? Granted, Iran was our "enemy," but then we would be more accurate to say that we will not tolerate aggression against our friends, a reasonable argument I sup­pose. But then we need to ask why Kuwait is our friend. Is it because the country is a democracy? Is it because Kuwait is an oil-rich country? Is it a combination of factors? If we have gone to war because we will not tolerate the indefensible human rights abuses against innocent Kuwaitis, then we need to ask ourselves why we tolerated Hussein's use of chemical weapons against the Kurdish people. (I will limit my argument here to our previous policies in Iraq, though our stance on human rights in 
other areas of the globe can 
also be questioned.) 
Whatever the conclusions, 
these question need to be 
asked. And whatever the an­
swers, I believe that this issue 
is grey-not black and white. 
That does not by necessity 
mean that you must oppose this 
war, but it does mean that we 
economic, environmental, political and, above all, human terms-is too high. 
A few days ago there was a letter to the editor that in­cluded excerpts from a young man named Dennis ( The Observer Feb. 7). He sounded bright, lonely and scared at the thought of death. This letter was given as an example of why we need to support the war. Rather than convincing me to support the war, this letter personalized the costs of war for me even more. In my mind, it would be more than tragic for this young life. or any other. to be lost in a war that could have been avoided and the consequences of which remain unclear. I, too, want to support all the troops. And as much as it may anger many of you, I must remain faithful to my deepest moral convictions and support the troops by con­tinuing to oppose the war so that it may be stopped before any more blood is shed. 
Deb Delaet Off-Campus 
Feb. 8, 1991 



weekend calendar: 

y 
MUSIC 
5 O'Clock Shadows, Club 23, 10 p.m. Big Shot, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. Bone Forest, McCormick's, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 
An Expression In Rhythm & Rhyme, Carroll Auditorium, ; Saint Mary's College, 8:30p.m. ' Sophomore Literary Festival, featuring Jaimy Gordon, 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium, 8 p.m. 
THEATRE An Evening of Theatre, Lab Theatre, Washington Hall, 7:30p.m. 
ART 
Expo Roma, Architecture Building. 
Patty Carroll Photographs, ISIS Gallery, open this weekend through March 8. 
sa 
y 
MUSIC 
Chisel & guest, Grace Coffeehouse, 10 p.m. 
Big Shot, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. 
Doorknob Lore, Club 23, 10:30 p.m. 
South Bend Chamber Singers, Moreau Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 
ART Expo Roma, Architecture Building. 
s 
y 
MUSIC Organ Concert, featuring Wolfgang Rubsam, Sacred Heart Church, 8 p.m. 
ART Expo Roms, Architecture Building. Tour the Snlte, Snite Musuem of Art, 1 p.m. 

FRIDAY 
"Along the Intercoastal Waterway,"O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saint Mary's College, 7:30p.m. "Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 
& 9:45p.m. 
"Jacob's Ladder,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. SATURDAY "Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:30 
& 9:45p.m. "Jacob's Ladder,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
Beating th 
Festival concludes 
with acclaimed 
Jaimy Gordon 
By ELIZABETH VIDA Accent Writer 
ust as another week of 
J 
classes has flown by, so too has this year's Sophomore Literary Festival. Tonight's reading, at 8 at the Library Auditorium, is by Jaimy Gordon, the author of the critically acclaimed novel "She Drove Without Stopping." Published in 1990, "She Drove Without Stopping" is Gordon's most recent novel. Her other works include "Circumspections from an Equestrian Statue," a novella, and "The Bend, The Lip, The Kid," a narrative poem. 
Gordon, who was born in Bal­timore in 1944 and educated at Antioch College and Brown University, is now an associate professor of English at Western Michigan University in Kalama­zoo, where she teaches fiction writing. She has received Cre­ative Writing Grants from the National Endowment for the Arts and fellowships from other prestigious institutes and councils of art. 
Gordon will draw almost all of her material for the reading from "She Drove Without Stop­ping," of which writer Janet Kauffman says, "A spectacle of a novel! In a cultural landscape marked ofT by men and money, Jane figures out how to drive without stopping, and destina­tion isn't the point." 
Elizabeth Hand, reviewer for the Washington Post, wrote, "Gordon's prose is witty and stylish. the kind of unblinking feminist writing that isn't afraid to admit of a woman whooping it up all night, then waking next morning disgusted, and not a little exalted, to discover just how close to the edge she·d crawled." 
Jane is the footloose and sex­ually free heroine of the novel who displeases her wealthy fa­ther and pays for his irritation with her pocketbook. As the novel progresses she leaves home to journey towards the edge of the sexual revolution of the 1960s. On this quest, she finds a series of surrogate "fathers." They all challenge her notion of the links between sex and money. 
Gordon characterizes Jane as an adventuress. "I would never have wanted to write about her 
s 
L
0 
I
p TH E
0 
RM A
0 
RR yE 
if I had not begun to know that she wasn't one of a kind, that indeed the world was harboring plenty of women like her," Gor­don said in a recent interview about the the character she created. "I imagine a host of Janes as the natural audience for this book." 
As the University celebrates the Year of Women, Gordon will present a contemporary view of the world from a female perspective. It is quite different from the point of view offered by the female protagonists in many Victorian novels, which present an anachronistic con­cept of women in society. 
If you've missed the previous authors this week, tonight would be an excellent opportu­nity to hear a published and ac­claimed writer read her own work and offer a little insight-not only into her novels, but also into what it 

takes  to  be  a  professional  
writer.  
Indi~  
brilli•  
By MONICA VAN  
Associate News Edito1  
heyT "never bliZ7&r1 Indig{) Ray  
Saliers brought to  
a storm of their (  
harmony, vocal s  
lyrical brilliance:  
With spirit and  
nation, Indigo Gi  
19-song set to a S(  
at Stepan Center,  
referred to by Ray  
fat bubble," Thu  
confidently cover  
from each of the  
bums.  
Much of the perf4  
a showcase of th1  
acclaimed lyrics an  
In "World Fall!  
latest album "Nom  
•Saints." they str  
the role of the in(  
life that must end:  
in the middle o  
scared the world \\  
for me."  
Appropriate for  
tine's Day concert  
Recovery." Drtailin1  
nature of relatio1  
may seem perfec1  
eluded that "nobod  
time rehearsal, a  
The Ob  evin  Weis  dust we're univers~ 
server/ K  e  love survive would I  
est "ft we could 



page 11 
r
, the Februa 
Blues 

n to know that :>f a kind, that was harboring like her," Gor­cent interview :haracter she ~ine a host of :ural audience 
;ity celebrates m, Gordon will porary view of m a female quite different f view offered rotagonists in novels, which hronistic con­society. d the previous eek, tonight ~!lent opportu­llished and ac­·ead her own 
er a little lly into her into what it professional 
Non-juniors: your ticket to escape from JPW 
By LYNN O'DONNELL Accent Writer 
H 
as the cold got you down? Are you suffering from a mild case of boredom? Well look out, because here comes Junior Parents' Weekend to add to your list. Notre Dame is noted for being a traditional school. and keeping with the times JPW has traditionally been... well a 'dead' weekend around campus for non-juniors. 
Juniors will be rolling out the 'green' carpet for Mom and Dad, but as for the rest of you, clear out if you can. Some have already decided to head for Chicago, but for those of us who prefer to stay closer to the Dome, here are some alterna­tives. 
Perhaps this weekend you would like to take in a concert or two? Okay then, here are two: ZZ Top and The Black Crowes are playing at The Rosemont Horizon (6920 N. Mannheim Rd., Rosemont, IL) Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 8 p.m., and The Replacements are at the State Theatre (404 S. Burdick Kalamazoo, MI) Friday at 8 p.m. Ticketmaster 0-800­359-8383) will be more than happy to help you obtain con­cert tickets. 
Did you know that Indiana has more miles of interstate highway than any other of 
comparable size? 
If you are yearning for city life, Indianapolis will accom­modate any taste. In just three short hours you could be in In­dianapolis for their annual Boat Sport and Travel Show, located at 2511 E. 46th St. 
The show is held at the Indi­ana State Fairgrounds, featur­ing consumer shows, physical fitness programs, dog seminars and regional turkey calling con­tests. Admission is charged for the show, which is open Satur­day at 10 a.m.-11 p.m. and Sunday 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
If turkey's not your game, check out Car Quest, World of Wheels at the Convention Cen­ter, across from 201 S. Capital St. If you work up an appetite while you are there, swing by Shapiro's, a wonderful deli, south of the center at 808 S. Meridian. 
If the best laugh you have had all week was watching re-runs of "Cheers," why not check out some comedy clubs in Indi­anapolis. Pam Stone will be appearing at the Broadripple Comedy Club (6281 N. College St., phone: (317) 255-4211). Also, the Indiana Comedy Con­nection (247 S. Meridian St., phone: (317) 631-3536), is fea­turing Jack Thomas. Lastly, Crackers (8702 Keystone Crossing, phone: (317) 856­2500) has a variety of acts ev­ery weekend. 
Indigo Girls display their sheer brilliance during Stepan concert 
By MONICA YANT Associate News Editor 
hey may have
T 
"never played in a bliuard before," but Indig{) Girls Amy Ray and Emily 
Saliers brought to Notre Dame 
a storm of their own: acoustic 
harmony, vocal strength, and 
lyrical brilliance: 
With spirit and perfect into­nation, Indigo Girls played a 19-song set to a sold-out crowd at Stepan Center, affectionately referred to by Ray as "a big 'ole fat bubble," Thursday. They confidently covered material from each of their three al­bums. 
Much of the performance was a showcase of their critically acclaimed lyrics and harmony. 
In "World Falls," off their latest album "Nomads •Indians 
•Saints." they struggled with the role of the individual in a life that must end: "I woke up in the middle of a dream, scared the world was too much for me." 
Appropriate for the Valen­tine's Day concert was "Love's Recovery." Detailing the stormy nature of relationships that may seem perfect, they con­cluded that "nobody gets a life­time rehearsal, as specks of dust we're universaV To let this love survive would be the great­est !9ft we could$e." 
The resolution and hopeful ending of "Love's Recovery" set the stage for "Hammer and a Nail," an upbeat number full of promise and self-determination. Searching for the meaning of life that is "more than a vision," Ray and Saliers progress from "seeing the road to hell and just where it starts," to "seeing the whole as a sum of its parts." 
If the crowd was unaware of the deeper symbolism in their lyrics, it was because their masterful musicianship and vo­cals demanded full attention. On "Hand Me Downs," and "Pushing the Needle Too Far," Ray's vocals ranged from anger to compassion, rage to sensitiv­ity. Both on lead acoustic guitar, they complemented, rather than competed, with each other. 
But Indigo Girls weren't all business. They joked about col­lege sports and solicited sup­port for Greenpeace. They even attempted to name a painted cow stationed at the edge of the stage, and the crowd willingly offered their suggestions. Fa­vorites like "Land of Canaan," and "Tried to Be True," brought the crowd together in a harmony of its own. 
And on "Closer to Fine," Ray and Saliers drew the most sig­nificant response from the col­lege-inspired line, "I spent four years prostrate to the higher mind, got my paper, and I was free," which netted shrills of agreement. 
Opening for Indigo Girls was The Ellen James Society. Fronted by two females, The Ellen James Society bore re­markable similarities to Indigo Girls, from the '60s-inspired at­tire to the lyrical focus on love and relationships. 
But the Ellen James Society sent a harsh message, one filled with much more disillusion and loss than the headliners. 
When the two groups joined forces on "Tried To Be True," and "1-2-3," the true power of these female voices was un­veiled. Between the four women, every musical emotion was displayed, every feeling conveyed. 
The female power did not end there, as if to suggest that this concert could have perhaps been in conjunction with the Year of Women. As the all-star ensemble wrapped up "Get To­gether," they replaced the word "brother" with "sister" in the chorus. 
Indigo Girls and The Ellen James Society showed Notre Dame an entertaining musical experience, concluding with a plea for "Peace" and a shower of autographed Valentine's for the stage-front audience. 
Whether a first-time viewer or a die-hard fan, Thursday night's show brought just about everyone a little "closer to fine." 
Also tour Union Station, the first station in the country to have separate railroad compa­nies, located on 39 Jackson Place and open Friday 10 a.m.­5 p.m. and Saturday 12-5 p.m. 
The Indianapolis Museum of Art, home of quite an extensive array of paintings, is on 1200 
W. 38th St. and open Tuesday­Sunday 11 a.m.-5 p.m. The Children's Museum, noted for caves, log cabins, and the tombs of Egyptian mummies, can be found at 30th and Meridian Streets. Just in case anyone asks you during your stay in Indianapolis, Indiana's state bird is the cardinal. 
Thirty minutes west of South Bend is Michigan City. By taking the Indiana tollway to U.S. exit 20 you will come across The Lighthouse. This is a very popu­lar spot, because it offers a va­riety of discount outlets such as Bennetton, Bass, and Polo. 
Southwest of Michigan City is Valparaiso. Valparaiso Univer­sity is having double theater performances of "The Medium" and "The Shave" at Kroencke Hall Friday and Saturday at 8 
p.m. Call the box office at (219) 464-5162 for tickets. 
Lastly, tour the Orvill~ Reden­bacher Popcorn Factory on U.S. 
30. For a long time corn was the only cash crop in Indiana. Fortunately for your JPW escape weekend, the Hoosier State now has more to offer than just corn. 

The Observer/ Kevin Weise ...along with fellow Indigo Girl Amy Ray. The Indigo Girls recently released a new album. 
Friday, February 15, 1991 

page 12 The Observer 
To the junior parents from the last flower child 
I wish there were time this weekend to talk at length with the Junior Parents over this un­fortunate war our country is waging in the Persian Gulf. 
Most of the Junior Parents must have a near-perfect recall of the Vietnam War. Some of them may have fought in that war; others must have opposed it, or wished it would go away before they were dragged into it. Many of the war vets came home, feeling guilty as hell for fighting in Vietnam. The rest of the country felt guilty as hell
I 
l 
I' for sending them there, and for not welcoming them home as heroes. Vietnam left many of us wounded in one way or an­other. Since so many of us are haunted by unresolved guilt from the past, we're sending lads to another war that could be just as tragic. The war hype in the country is at fever pitch. Even the school children have been enlisted to support the troops and keep their morale high, so they will not feel they are fighting with a hand tied behind them. For me, as a priest at Notre Dame, who listened to, and was changed by, the generation which is now old enough to be sending children to Notre Dame as students, Vietnam was a turning point also. The refrain of those years was, "Give peace a chance," so I supported the peace movement. When some of the students "made love, not war." I defended the students to their parents. I've dragged parents, kicking and screaming, into loving their own. Some of those parents would have never met their own 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
grandchildren, if they'd been allowed to prevent marriages that verged on insanity. I won­der if they feel now I did them a favor as an interfering priest who helped young lovers who wanted the chance to stay true to each other? 
Some of the peaceniks, grow­ing older, may have grown cyn­ical about love as a force more powerful than missiles. If I shared their cynicism, I'd be leftwith egg on my face. As it happened, I have hung onto ideals I learned in the children's crusade. I still have the banner a nun made for me: "Lovers alone wear sunlight." Believing that now could make me the last of the flower children. 
I'm too old to believe, "My country, right or wrong," just because there's a war on. The country which has 26 million abortions notched on its belt can't claim it's in the state of grace from sea to shining sea. 
Chesterton wrote, '"My coun­try, right or wrong,' is a thing no patriot would think of say­ing except in a desperate case. It is like saying, 'My mother, drunk or sober.' No doubt if a decent man's mother took to drink he would share her trou­bles to the last: but to talk as if he would be in a state of gay indifference as to whether his mother took to drink or not is certainly not the language of men who know the great mys­tery." 
My country, right or wrong, dropped more bombs on Viet­nam than were dropped on the continent of Europe during World War II. Now I'm told more bombs have been dropped on Iraq already than were dropped on Vietnam. Is this more moral than nuking them back to the Stone Age? 
Being a Holy Cross priest at Notre Dame has been a learn­ing experience. I've learned so much in 20 years, I'm at odds with the young hawks who call me unpatriotic for being a dove. A generation ago, stu­dents opposed to the war in Vietnam used to explain Chris­tian love to me, because they were worried about me as a hawk. 
The truth is, I'm not a paci­fist, though I'm still wondering. "Where have all the flowers gone?" Like Mr. Chips, I re­member the names of the dead, and that honor roll covers four different wars. 
"Futility" is a poem written by Wilfred Owen, a soldier killed in action in 1918. "Move him into the sun--/ Gently its touch awoke him once,/ At home, whispering of fields un­sown./ Always it awoke him, even in France,/ Until this morning and this snow./ If any­thing might rouse him now/ The Kind Old Sun will know.Ill Think how it wakes the seeds,-­/ Woke, once, the clays of a cold star./ Are limbs, so dear achieved, are sides./ Full­nerved--still warm--too hard to stir?/ Was it for this the clay grew tall?/ --0 what made fatuous sunbeams toiV To break earth's sleep at all?" 
"Was it for this that the clay grew tall?" must be a question the survivors of the fallen on either side of a war must ask in every generation. Now we're in a new war that's more popular than Jesus. 
In 1972, anti-war activist Daniel Berrigan, a Jesuit priest, was elected Senior Class Fellow at Notre Dame. Should the pre­sent seniors bring him back to stir up student unrest, or are the seniors proud to have the Gulf War as their stumbling block as they enter the real world? 
By the time Vietnam was­over, the Jesus whom the Church preached had a differ­ent image. He had become ei­ther the Velveteen Rabbit of the flower children, or a counter­revolutionary looking like Che Guevara, or St. Francis of As· sisi before the stigmata. Even­tually, John Lennon died for our sins, as you could tell from the music played at the folk Masses. 
Young Catholics who now come to Communion wearing earrings remind me of the Little Prince of Saint-Exupery. That's because I can't keep up with the symbolism favored by the young. 
Christ, in my book, is both fierce and gentle. Pacifists should learn to know Him as a hawk. ROTC students should learn to know Him as a dove, gentle as they tend to be gentle themselves. 
At Notre Dame, the child is so often father to the man, since there are no infallible sides to the generation gap. In 1965, coming back to Notre Dame after years of teaching and 
study in the East, I had less grace under pressure than the Cowardly Lion. 
Faced with tensions from the war that divided the nation, I blessed the soldiers who left campus for Vietnam, and wrote letters from peaceniks trying to beat the draft. Pacifists, hoped, were a separate breed who heard God's voice calling them to be His witnesses in a special way, like celibates who take religious vows. Pacifism, however, is not every lad's cup of tea, but neither is wearing a Green Beret. 
Nobody suspects a 65-year old priest of suffering from a psychic wound inflicted on him as an armchair chaplain coun­selling students in war and peace. Yellow ribbons make me sick as though I were a vampire spooked by a crucifix. Like the Ancient Mariner clinging to the Wedding Guest, I'd like to bend the ear of Junior Class parents of th~ generation that set fire to my conscience. 
The Vietnam War Memorial is the Wailing Wall the Vietniks visit when they want to cry or pray. Vietniks and peaceniks alike could serve me like a wailing wall if they would listen to the last of the flower chil­dren, singing "Blowin' in the Wind," even though the ~nd has changed directions. 
What are the Junior Parents telling their children about the desert storm that is replacing the jungles, wet with rain? 

Find out what your kid is doing 
.. .All year long! 
Subscribe to The Observer 
Subscribe to the only paper that gives you the scoop on life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The Observer is the only daily source of campus news, features and, of course, Fighting Irish sports. So subscribe now and pay only $20 for the rest of this semester. You'll never have to ask your son or daughter "What's happening on campus" again. The Observer: We even deliver in snowstorms. 
Send to: 
The Observer 
P.O.Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Name 
Address 
City State Zip 

The Observer page 13
Friday, February 15, 1991 
Cooper named secondary coach 
Women 
continued from page 20 
"This spring we've got three big tournaments, including Purdue and Indiana. We're spending spring break in Florida for a tournament, and the experience should help a lot. We only have two seniors graduating, and we also have pretty solid underclassmen on the team." 
Yet rosy futures aside, critics remain to be silenced. It is far from unusual, when discussing college athletics, to hear state­ments such as "the athletic de­partment unfairly drains funds from the academic depart­ments," "athletes aren't real students," and "the university only cares about you if you're an athlete." 
Absent from such discussions, however, are treatments of the role of women's athletics. Additionally, it should be noted that many of those who have publicly decried such alleged athletic department favoritism either hold academic positions at universities with imbalances between sports and school­work, or are sensationalists and attention-seekers. 
Notre Dame, however, has been observed to enjoy a fruit­ful relationship between aca­demics and athletics. What has not often been observed, how­ever, are the benefits which sports accrue for the university. 
Yet what has perhaps been most glaringly absent from such discussions-at Notre Dame and across the nation-is a detailed treatment of the ef­fects which women's sports have upon the university. 
Women's sports at Notre Dame are still classified as "non-revenue sports," but are making conscious efforts to support themselves finan­cially-witness the recent hiring of Sports Marketing Manager Bill Scholl a year and a half ago. 
Furthermore, the women's sports teams, like any athletic endeavor, aside from improving Notre Dame's ability to attract students, provide female stu­dents with a wider range of op­portunities. 
The responses of the coaches and athletes interviewed for the Women in Sports series gave varied answers to the question of the purpose of women's ath­letics at a university, but were nearly unanimous in regards to the benefits. 
"The purpose of both men's and women's intercollegiate athletics is to give our students a chance to compete at a high level," remarked Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli. "It is part of the whole collegiate experience. 
"We provide an education that is different from that which is given in the classroom. Our students learn the values of commitment, dedication and teamwork." 
"The purpose is the same for men and women," explained Piane, who has coached at Notre Dame for 17 years. "Sports is an outlet to do what you enjoy. Track prepares you for work and life. The people who are hard workers in track and cross country tend to be hard workers in the classroom as well." 
Special to the Observer 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz announced yesterday that Ron Cooper, defensive coordinator and linebacker coach at UNLV in 1990 under former Irish as­sistant Jim Strong, has been named secondary coach at Notre Dame. 
Cooper replaces Chuck Heater, who earlier this week joined Earle Bruce's staff as defensive coordinator at Colorado State following three years as Notre Dame secondary coach. 
The Huntsville, Ala., native came to UNLV after spending the 1989 campaign as linebacker coach at East Carolina under Bill Lewis. He previously served two years at Murray State in 1987 and 1988 as defensive coordinator and secondary coach under Mike Mahoney. 
In 1985 and 1986, Cooper coached inside linebackers at Austin Peay under Emory Hale. He spent the 1984 season as a graduate assistant under Holtz at Minnesota-and also served as a graduate assistant at Appalachian State in 1983 while completing work on a master's degree in athletic administration. 
"I've known Ron for eight years, since he was with us at Minnesota when he was first starting his coaching career," Holtz said. "He has done an outstanding job everywhere he's been. We feel most fortu­nate in having him join our program, and we're all excited about working with him." 
Cooper played linebacker at Jacksonville State University, where he earned three letters and helped the team to three Gulf South Conference titles and three NCAA Division II playoff appearances in 1980, 1981, and 1982. He graduated from Jacksonville State in 1983 with a degree in physical education and biology. 
Born February 11, 1961, the 30-year-old Cooper is married to the former Kim Walls of Murray, Ky. 
The ObseNer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 

Classifieds 
spaces. 

NEED RIDE FROM LONG FREEDOM! Rent the best CLUB 23 CHICAGO! NOTICES ISLAND, houses. Prime locations. 233-Escape Jr. Parents'_Weekend... GSU PROFESSIONAL NY. back to campus on 3-16 or 9947. Daily Specials. New addition: take the DEVELOPMENT WORKSHOP #3 TYPING AVAILABLE 3-17. Will pay for gas$$$. Call Mark -----------The Coffee House WINDY CITY SHUTTLE 287-4082 at 273-9288. Bring your books and come to Chicago. BETTER TESTS, GOOD GRADES: 
study, or just come socialize. ONLY$10.00 EFFECTIVE SKILLS FOR NY TIMES. used and new books FOUR BEDROOMS -TWO Open daily 4pm-3am. Tickets at TESTING AND GRADING Pandora's Books 233-2342 ROCK/DANCE BAND BATHS HOUSE, AVAILABLE LaFortune Info Desk. corner of ND ave. & Howard seeks Drummer and Keyboardist. AUGUST 1. CLOSE TO NOTRE PROF. LUIS FRAGA 10-5:30 everyday Please call Paul x1355 DAME. CALL 234-9364. 
...EXPO ROMA* .. 
MONDAY, FEB. 18, 7-9 PM RIDER WANTED TO SHARE CENTER FOR CONTINUING 
...EXPO ROMA••• 
FOR SALE 
SOPHOMORES !!! EXPENSES ON DRIVE TO ...EXPOROMA*.. Meat, EDUCATION Are you ready for Advanced RICHMOND, VA. LEAVING SAT. FOR SALE : Sound System for Come experience the beauty of the (aka maggot or scarmucci), Registration beginning April 8 ? P.M. , 2/16 OR SUN. A.M. WILL bar band. In Good Shape. art and architecture of Rome, as You are finally 21!! Enjoy REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 
Have you selected your major? RETURN TO CAMPUS ON TUES. Reasonable Price. Call: presented by 4th-year architecture yourself 2-nite and no jagy. 
P.M., 2/19. COME ONE WAY OR Kevin X3498 or John X1166. majors. -The boys If you answered NO, consider ROUNDTRIP. CALL 233-8855, FEB. 14 -FEB. 23 at the School of They're happy. registering for CAREER/MAJOR ASK FOR ROB. "2 1 -way airline tickets to San Architecture Bldg. i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for They're healthy. DECISION MAKING WORKSHOP Francisco, Feb. 27. $100 ...EXPO ROMA ... spring break. Dana x2697. I'm a They're moist. starting the week of February 18th Summer job interviews -Average 684-7203." ...EXPO ROMA••• great rider. They're at the University Counseling earnings $3900. University ...EXPO ROMA* .. BONE FOREST, Center. Call 239-7336 to register Directories, the nation's largest INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. appearing at McCormick's, or for more information publisher of campus telephone Buying a car? Good rates. Call me HAPPY BIRTHDAY Friday, Feb. 15. 
directories, hires over 250 college for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. RIDE NEEDED. To Terre Haute MARTHA 
students for their summer sales Office near campus. or vicinity(IU. Indy ...) 2115. WE LOVE YOU TONS EVEN Have an "accident" at the SPRING BREAK!!! $136.00 program. Top earnings $5,000-Please call Emily 284-5086 THOUGH YOU'RE ONLY 20! family reunion? Maim the cat by ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE 8,000. Gain valuable experience in Tickets AT LEAST YOU HAVE AN I.D.! mistake? GREYHOUND GOES. advertising, sales and public LOVE, YOUR WINGMATES FEEL LIKE A BONEHEAD? 
RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541 relations selling yellow page Wanted N.K.O.T.B tickets for April Good. 
advertising for your campus 7. Special birthday gift. Please AnTostal '91 proudly presents: Photography for Formals-Halls­Join the rest of us at telephone directory. Positions also call (219) 465-0101. Dances-ROTC. Call IHS MCCORMICK'S, Tonight. available in other university THE BAR® Photography at 234-8539. BONE FOREST. 
Tired of the protesters? Want to markets. Expense paid training BONE FOREST. show real support for our troops? program in Chapel Hill, NC. PERSONALS This wacky and zany AnTostal fund­STOP THE WAR Call289-1321, leave your name & Looking for enthusiastic, goal­raiser can earn you a VCR, a dozen wear white arm bands number. oriented students for challenging, pizzas to Barnaby's, or a $50 gift FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 
well-paying summer job. DO YOU ENJOY WORKING certificate to the ND Bookstore. SUPPORT THE TROOPS CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. WORD PROCESSING Internships may be available. WITH PEOPLE? Every time you purchase the 3oz. BRING THEM HOME NOW Low Rates= 277-6091 Interviews on campus Friday, If you are searching for an Catherine Eisner chocolate bar wear white arm bands 
February 22nd. Sign up at the opportunity that will allow you to (Almond or Crunch) for $1 from an Sisters of Nefertiti present Lost and Found Career & Placement Services. earn an exceptionally large AnTostal '91 Rep you increase your Classic Rock An Expression in Rhy1hm & 
income while helping people. call chances of winning a Golden Classic Rock Rhyme. FOUND: Pair of gloves in 127 NETWORK MARKETING: NEW 291-2964 for an appointment. Ticket® that could win you one of SMC/ND Students will perform Nieuland. Call x4530. ASSOCIATES WANTED. SYSTEM these valuable prizes. Off-campus & Musicians that really play skits black poetry readings, 
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS. faculty can their instruments! dance and songs. FOUND: Scarf in front of Library. SUBSTANTIAL PROFIT purchase THE BAR® on the second Friday, Feb. 15, 1991 at 8:30p.m. Call x4530. POTENTIAL. START BUILDING floor of LaFortune-SUB's DOORKNOB LORE SMC's Carroll Auditorium 
FINANCIAL SECURITY FOR CLUB 23 reception desk. •••• LOST •••• YOUR FUTURE TODAY. Escape JPW at Club 23 GOLD LINK BRACELET -looks FLEXIBLE HOURS. Daily Specials. New addition: But wait! There's yet another way Sat. Feb. 16th 10:30 like (XoXoXoX)-IN UPPERCLASSMEN, GRADUATE The Coffee House to win! By simply answering Sisters of Nefertiti present FARLEY,NDH,2nd FL LIBRARY, STUDENTS AND STAFF. Bring your books and come correctly the 3 daily "Charlie and the BOYCOTT COORS?? An Expression in Rhy1hm & Rhyme OR ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS. SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY. 219-study, or just come socialize. Chocolate Factory" Questions on a BOYCOTT COORS! SMC/ND students will perform IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X4046. 291-4722. Open daily 4pm-3am. sheet of paper along with your BOYCOTT COORS! skits, black poetry readings, dance 
name and phone # and putting it in BOYCOTT COORS! and songs on Friday, Feb. 15, 1991 THE BOX® at the SUB BOYCOTT COORS! 
at

FOR RENT Receptionist's desk on the 2nd floor 8:30p.m. @@@@HELP! HELP! CLUB 23 of LaFortune or 1st floor Haggar SMC's Carroll Auditorium HELP I@@@@ BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Hall (SMC) by 5 p.m. (one entry per Anyone seeking a ride to 
LOST A SINGLE PERAL 219-291-7153. Daily Specials. New addition: person per day) you will be entered Minniapolis this weekend, call EARRING SOMETIME LAST The Coffee House into a drawing for a hundred dollar Rene at 273-2078. Dear Kathleen, WEEK. (9mm)! Bring your books and come bill (that's $100)! Happy belated Valentines Day. 
If found please call Beth study, or just come socialize. Anyone interested in a ride this You will not believe how much work 
at#2467!!! HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to Open daily 4pm-3am. GOOD LUCK! weekend to Pittsburgh, please call this one lame looking personal was. campus. $150/month. Call Paul Tanya at 273-2078. You are incidentally my only hope 287-2159. Mr. AnTostal on this upcoming paper. 
LOST: BROWN PAIR OF NICE SEAN-Hugs and all that BB GLOVES WITH LEATHER 3 Bedroom Homes. THE QUESTIONS: Happy Birthday!! (tomarrow) STRIPES. PLEASE CALL #1654. Walk to campus. CLUB 23 Enjoy your weekend. I'll have a Dear Corinne. 
232-3616 1) What did Charlie find? drink or two in your honor. Happy Valentines Day one day Daily Specials. New addition: Call me Monday? Remember: later. If you go over with me we are
WANTED 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, The Coffee House 2) What did Charlie receive from Every1hing's better when ... going to have a blast. Bernard EARN $300 I U ~ 1-'t:R W Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms Bring your books and come WillieWonka? ... WET READING BOOKS AT HOME. for study, or just come socialize. 
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. Graduation weekend. Located at Open daily 4pm-3am. 3) Who is Mr. An Tostal? Dear Chris P.E., Venita adoramus Dominum, Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart I Love You and Want You Venite adoramus Dominum I am looking for a ride to anywhere (12 miles from South Bend) James. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!!!!!!1!!!!!!! 
in Virginia for Spring Break  Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  
(preferably Charlottesville or close  deposit per room. Send letter with  
to) Will help with expenses and  deposit to 3011  CLUB  23  Attention Seniors !!!I  
driving!  Nancy 284-5082  Belvedere Ad, Elkhart,  
IN 46514.  Daily Specials. New addition:  All night basketball torney is coming  
LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO  The Coffee House  March 1. Start getting your four  
WANT TO SUB-LEASE  NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  Bring your books and come  player teams together today and  
APARTMENT OVER SUMMER.  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND  study, or just come socialize.  look for more info. next week! Call  
CALL BLAIZE X1654  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Open daily 4pm-3am.  class office with any ?? from 3-5  
2773097  Mon.·Fri.  

EXCITING JOBS IN ALASKA 
HIRING Men ·Women. Summer/Year Round. Fishing. Canneries, Logging, Mining, Construction, Oil Companies. Skilled/Unskilled. Transportation $600 plus weekly. CALL NOWI 
1-206-736-7000, Ext._jllJ7 

\ 
' I  page 14  The Observer  Friday, February 15, 1991  
i ~  SPORTS BRIEFS  Volleyball lands two recruits  
~  Special to the Observer  Princeton to a state champi­ 
\ I  •The ND/SMC Sailing Club will have its first 1991 meeting at 6:30p.m. on Tuesday, Feb. 22 in Rm.  onship in 1991. Coates, who by graduation will have received  
~  204 O'Shag. New members are welcome.  Two high school seniors have  16 varsity letters in four differ­ 
signed national letters of intent  ent sports-four each in volley­ 
to enroll at the University of  ball, track, tennis, and basket­ 
•Sports Trivia Contest sponsored by WVFI starting next week  -lots of great prizes:  COs.  Notre Dame and participate in  ball-was USA Today's Illinois  
Sportswear, haircuts, pizzas and much, much more. Only a few spots still available. Call Jay at x3546  the Irish volleyball program.  Prep Athlete of the Year for  
with names and numbers of your 3 person teams.  Nicole Coates is an outside  1990.  
hitter from  Princeton High  Christy Peters is an outside  
School in Princeton, Ill. Coates  hitter  from  Solana  Beach,  
was a three-time all-state pick  Calif., Peters was named co­ 
•Attention All Freshmen: The Student Managers Organization will be having an informational  and was selected to the United  MVP of the Palomar League in  
meeting for all who are interested in assisting the men and women athletes of Notre Dame. The  States Volleyball Association  1990 and was selected to all­ 
meeting will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 19 at 7:30p.m. in the Loftus Football auditorium. Any question,  junior elite camp in 1990.  tournament teams at the Mt.  
please call the Managers Office at 239-6482.  A member of the Top Gun  Helix and Santa Barbara tour­ 
Club Team in 1991, Coates led  naments.  
Rule  of this year's tournament will be affected by the rule.  Daly expected to be named Olympic coach  
continued from page 20  "The quality will go down a little, but as the teams near the  NEW YORK (AP) -Detroit Pistons coach Chuck Daly ap­ has a 62-31 record in the NBA playoffs, the best among active  ing the record.  Eagles  to  a  26-26  
"I anticipated that my team  finals, it will be just as competi­ peared as the likely choice to  coaches.  Daly  moved  on  to  the  
last year, Just Chillin', would be  tive. However, some teams will  coach the 1992 U.S. Olympic  The 1992 Olympics will be  University of Pennsylvania,  
much better this year. I can't  be hurt by the loss of key play­ basketball team when both USA  the first in which NBA players  where he stayed from 1971-77.  
play this year, but I wish that I  ers," said Commissioner Kevin  Basketball and the  Pistons  will be allowed to participate.  He led the Quakers to four Ivy  
could play," stated Griggs, an­ McGee.  called news conferences for  The U.S. team is expected to  League titles in seven seasons  
other second-team member.  Friday morning.  have nine NBA players and  and a 125-38 record.  
USA Basketball said its 10  three college players.  He left the college ranks to  
The football team will be  "The  tournament  will  be  a.m. EST news conference con­ Daly began his coaching ca­ become an assistant to Billy  
holding their own tournament  weaker this year. Teams will be  cerned the selection of the  reer at Duke, where he was an  Cunningham  with  the  
in order to allow returning  hurt if they depended on per­ Olympic team's coach for 1992  assistant coach from 1963-69.  Philadelphia 76ers, where he  
players a chance to play in  formances of football players.  Games in Barcelona, Spain.  He was freshman coach the  stayed for four seasons. Daly  
something  similar  to  the  We will not be able to replace  The Pistons did not announce  first three seasons and then  was hired as head coach of the  
Bookstore tournament.  Ray because he was such a  the  purpose  of their  news  was a varsity assistant coach.  Pistons on May 17, 1983.  
great player," said David Clar, a  conference.  He then became head coach  Daly had a career record of  
Two opinions exist regarding  teammate of Griggs in last  Daly, 60, has led the Pistons  at Boston College for the 1969­ 403-231 going into Wednesday  
the how the level of competition  year's tournament.  to consecutive NBA titles. He  70 and 1970-71 seasons. lead­ night's game at Milwaukee.  

SCOREBOARD 
TRANSACTIONS NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
BASEBALL EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE American League Atlantic Diviaion Patrick Dlviaion BALTI!WRE ORIOLES-Agreed to terms with w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Div Jeff Robinson, pitcher, on a one-year contract. Boston 36 12 .750 7-3 Won 4 23-4 13-8 23-9 NY Rangers 30 20 9 69 220 183 17-8-5 13-12-4 11-7-3 BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms with Kevin Philadelphia 25 22 .532 10 1/2 3-7 Lost I 17-7 8-15 19-12 Pittsburgh 30 25 3 63 247 218 19-1 t-1 11·14-2 IS-10-0 Romine, outlielder. on a one-year contract. New York 21 28 .429 15 112 3-7 Lost 1 10-15 11-13 12-17 Philadelphia 28 26 6 62 197 187 15-12-4 13-14-2 9-11-5 CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to terms with Washington 21 29 .420 16 3-7 lost 2 14-8 7-21 13-17 New Jersey 24 24 It 59 209 196 16-7-7 8-17-4 8-12-5 Chuck Finley, p~cher, on a one-year contract. New Jersey 15 34 .306 21 1/2 2-8 Won 1 10-14 S-20 10-19 Washington 27 28 3 57 189 193 15-11-2 12-17-1 14-1 t-1 
TORONTO BLUE JAYS-Agreed to terms with Miami 14 35 .286 22 1/2 3-7 Won I 10-15 4-20 7-23 NY Islanders 19 32 8 46 170 215 I 1-IS-5 8-17-3 7-13-4 Willie Fraser, p~cher, on one-year contract. National League Central Dlviaion Adamo Divialon 
HOUSTON ASTROS-Agreed to terms wtth Chicago 34 14 .708 7-3 Won 4 19-3 1S-1 I 21-7 Boston 35 18 8 78 230 198 21-7-3 14-tt-5 15-7-3 Mark Portugal. pitcher, on a one-year contract. Detroh 35 16 .686 1/2 7-3 Won I 21-4 14-12 24-8 Montreal 32 22 6 70 209 188 19-10-2 13-12-4 12·8-3 LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to terms Milwaukee 30 20 .600 5 3-7 Lost 2 22-4 8-16 19-12 Hart1ord 26 26 6 58 170 189 15-12·3 11-14-3 7-10-3 with Lenny Harris, infielder, on a one-year contract. Atlanta 26 23 .531 8 112 2-8 Lost 2 18-6 8-17 16-17, Buffalo 22 23 13 57 205 200 11-10-8 11-13-5 6-10-5 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Announced a two-year Indiana 20 28 .417 14 5-5 Won I 15-8 S-20 13-17 Quebec 12 37 10 34 168 259 6-18-7 6-19-3 6-11-6\ working agreement whh Rockford of the Midwest Cleveland 17 32 .347 171/2 4-6 Won 2 11-14 6-18 11-18\ League. Named Pat Kelly manager and Richard Charlotte 15 33 .313 19 3-7 Won 1 11-14 4-19 9-21 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Dubee and Jose Castro coaches of Rockford. Norria Diviaion SAN DIEGO PADRES-Agreed to terms whh WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Div Fred McGrill, first baseman, on a four-year contract. Midweat Divialon Chicago 36 19 4 76 195 153 19-7-2 17-12-2 14·6·1
11 w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni St. Louis 34 16 7 75 225 160 17-6-5 17-10-2 13-7-2 BASKETBALL San Antonio 33 14 .702 6-4 Lost 1 20-6 13-8 22-9 Detroh 26 29 5 57 210 223 21-10-0 5-19-5 11·11-2 Ubefty Baaketball Asaociatlon Utah 32 16 .667 1 112 6-4 Won 2 22-4 10-12 22-8 M'nnesota 19 32 10 48 192 215 12-14-4 7-18-6 6-13-3
I \ 
LBA ALL-STARS-Named Adrian Newell Houston 28 22 .560 6112 8-2 Won I 18-7 10-15 16-15 Toronto 15 37 6 36 169 243 10-20-2 S-17·4 7-14-2 I I assistant coach. Dallas 17 29 .370 15 1/2 5-5 Lost 2 1 t-12 6-17 10-19 Minnesota 16 31 .340 17 3-7 Lost 3 11-11 S-20 11-22 Smythe Divialon
I 
I' \ 
FOOTBALL Orlando 15 34 .306 19 5-5 Lost 1 13-13 2-21 11-22 Los Angeles 31 19 7 69 236 185 17-7-4 14-12-3 10-7-4 National Football League Denver 14 33 .298 19 6-4-, Lost 3 11-12 3-21 6-23 Calgary 30 21 6 66 230 180 15-7-1 IS-14-5 11-6-3 
. 
l 
PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Signed Lorenzo Edmonton 28 26 3 59 199 192 17-10·1 11-16-2 10-10-2 Davl6 and Ron Heard. wide receivers. Pacific Olvialon Winnipeg 21 31 10 52 202 218 13-13-4 8-18-6 8-&5 SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Named Ray Portland 40 9 .816 8-2 Won I 25-2 15-7 23-7 Vancouver 20 34 5 45 t75 232 11-13-3 9-21-2 7-17-0 
Sherman running backs coach. · LA L.akers 36 12 .750 3112 9-1 Won I 21-4 15-8 22-9 Thuraday·a Gamea Saturday·• GameaCanadian Football League Phoenix 32 16 .667 7112 7-3 Won 2 19-4 13-12 21-10 Late Gamea Hoi Included Minnesota at Detroit, 1:05 p.m. 
l 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed Paul Golden State 27 20 .574 12 6-4 Won 1 17-4 10-16 17-14 Pittsburgh 5, N.Y. islanders 2 Phiiadephia at New Jersey. I :35 p.m.
Wetmore. linebacker; Leo Groenewegen. offensive Seattle 23 24 .489 16 5-5 Won 1 15-7 8-17 11-16 Winnipeg 3, New Jersey 3, tie Pittsburgh at N.Y. islanders. 7:35p.m. 
lineman; Jamie Taras, running back, and Robin LA Clippers 15 33 .313 24 1/2 2-8 Lost 6 11-10 4-23 11-18 Chicago 2. Quebec 1, OT 
Hart1ord at Montreal, 8:05p.m. OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Named Dick Belanger. defensive back. Sacramento 14 32 .304 24 112 4-6 Won 2 13-11 t-21 10-21 
Los Angeles at Edmonton, (n) Edmonton at Toronto, 8:05p.m. Thuraday'a Gamea St. Louis at Vancouver, (n) Washington at Vancouver. 8:05p.m.
Houston t 29, Washington It7
Maloney, ollenslve line coach. Signed Scoll 
l 
late Game• Not Included Detrott 102, Milwaukee 94 
Boston at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Miarri 141, Denver 112 Phoenix 106, San Antonio 97 Flagel, salety, to a two-year contract. Frlday'a Gamea 
Montreal ar Buffalo, 7:35 p.m.

Chicago 102, New York 92 Boston at Golden State, (n)
HOCKEY Hart1ord at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. 
Seattle 102, Orlando 90 Philadelphia at Sacramento, (n)
National Hockey League 

Washington at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 
NHL-Suspended Bernie Nicholls, New York Rangers center, for three games for swinging his stick at Montreal Canadians defenseman Jean­Jacques Daigneauh during a game Feb. 9. 
NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Recalled Kevin Todd, 
THE 

center. from Utica of the American Hockey League. 
HORSE RACING 
HEARTBEAT 

New York Racing Auociatlon NYRA-Named Glen Mathes director of public and media relations. 
OF NOTRE 

North American Harneu Publlciota Aaaociation NAHPA-Eiected Roger Huston chairman of the 
DAME 

board. Grant C. Wade president, Jim Moran vice president, Joe Hartman secretary and Tom White treasurer for 1991. 
SOCCER National Profeaalonal Soccer League 
DETROIT ROCKERS-Signed Dave Wolf, defender. to a tO-day contract. Placed Bobby Poursanldis, midfielder. on the disabled list. Activated Crago. forward. from the disabled nst. American Profesaional Soccer League 
MARYLAND BAYS-Signed Desmond Armstrong, defender, to a one-year contract. 
Holy Cross 

COLLEGE MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE-
Fathers and Brothers 

Announced that Northern Iowa will become a merrt>er effectice July 1. 1991. 
Through vision, work, and prayer they have given life to 

BALL STATE-Announced the resignation of Gerald Ingram. running backs coach, in order to 
a great university, enriching our world with timeless 

take the same pos~ion at Boston College. 
values, caring service. 

KANSAS STATE-Promoted Bobby Stoops and Jim Leavitt to co-defensive coordinators. NORTHEASTERN-Named Chris Demarest 
Holy Cross also serves a variety of ministries: schools, 

outside nnebacker coach. 
parishes, foreign missions, service to the poor and others. 

WEST VIRGINIA-Announced the resignation of Dwight Wallace, quarterbacks and receivers coach. 
For inji>rmation about the one-year Candidate Program at Notre Dame 11'rite: 
Vocation Director Congregalion of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556 



iC 
Emesto D. Alvarado Jimenez Regina Weissert Elizabeth A. Sperry-White MicheaJ S. Reidy Dr. Robert C. Nelson Rosemarie R. Green Albert BorbelyiC Christopher P. Johnson, C.S.C Phyllis Kaminski James P. Sterba Michael Vore Oliver Atassi John H. Yoder Grzegorz Michalski Susan E. Murphy Rose M. McAleer Daniel R. Kayajan, C.S.C. Nathan Mitchell Michael Dehring Christine M. Watkins Theresa Francis Mike Coman, C.S.C. Peter Morgan Keith F. Pecklers, S.J. Alfred Robles Daniela Kohen
Reed Solomon Bernhard HerwigiC Linda M. Diltz Kathleen Navarre Giovanna Lenzi-Sandusky Jose Leste Kenneth A. Bordignon Ben Fullalove Alexander J. Hahn iC Marilyn Bellis Angela Appleby Anton C. Masin Vincent G. Nowinski Patrick J. Gallagher William Nichols L.R. Taylor 
iC

iC Jim Manifold Rachel R. Tomas Rob Rosenthal Lucy Baraquio J. Michael Leger Dominic Jeremiah Marilyn Van Bergen 
iC 
Audrey Machel Joseph M. lncandela Amy Jenista Greta Hoisington Professor Hafiz Atassi Maria Evelyn N. Gomez Carole Coffin iC Don Nelson Lynn M. Brysacz Matthew Boyd Steffens J. Chandra Matthew D. Zeiger Jonathan Dannemiller AnneVolk iC Kerry Temple Robert I. Hohl A. Philip DePauw David Ricchiute Jim O'Donnell Tara E. Verdonk Regina Coli, C.S.J. iC Walton R. Collins Susan Jozwiak John A Herman, C.S.C. Grey Trompeter Jean M. Lanahan, B.V.M. Pedro Villegas John A. Melloh, S.M. 
iC

iC Traci Taghon Mary Brassil, C.S.C Cole McMahon Juan M. Rivera Peter Do'Ml Amy Eckert Sheila L Geary John Monczunski ScottS. Holmlund Kristin Kommers Annemarie Keinath David Burrell, C.S.C. Thomas E. Gaughan, C.S.C. Gaetana A. Lenox iCiC Paul Wieber Tom Stella, C.S.C Jim Mahen Pat Koers Joseph Ross, C.S.C Tom McDermott, C.S.C. Robert Krieg, C.S.C Frances Nakiwala, D.M. Judith R. Fean Kevin H. Gary Don Sporleder William M. Lewers, C.S.C Jules Sweet Julie Lytle
iC 
Damien Gaul Sr. Marilla (Dyer) C.S.C Michael S. Moynihan Diego J. Beilalta John B. Donahue, S.J. Stephen P. Newton, C.S.C. Tamara Marie Liddell 
•
• 
iC
Richard Huftalen 

Willa Murphy Marilyn Zugish, C.S.C Thomas Kinane Paula Thompson Jean Y.O. Jin Prof. Edward J. Cronin Drew Christiansen, S.J.iC Carol Schaal Veverly Nelson, C.S.C Jack Geracci, C.S.C. Norman Crowe Guilin Yang Prof. Ruthann K. Johansen Richard Okumu iC Martin J. Tracey Sr. M. Thomas More, C.S.C Chad Mohler Sharon Denn Miriam Nebres Silvia R. Anad on Patrick J. Sullivan1 C.S.C iC 
Robert Archambeau Patricia Mulvaney, C.S.C Allison Rigo Rick Schaupp Michael Thurber Margaret Egan Yvonne L. Henng 
iC Amy Tremel Robert Frazier Catherine A. Olsen Maria lnes Lopez Janet Cremin Lolly Tansey 
iC

iC Julie Costello Leslie A. LeMay Daniel Pier Eileen Gordon Daniel Thurber Kathleen Zack Rev. Stanley J. Rdzok, C.S.C Brian P. Riley Patricia Riley, C.S.C Sarah G. Carroll Cheryl Thompson Robert Kugler Mansour Eid Mary McDaniel iCiC Danelle R. Ruwe Joan Mader, C.S.C Patrick Cummings Molly K. Denver Michael Krueger James A. Lehr John T. Biger
iC 
Jessica Lapp Sr. Kathleen Moroney, C.S.C Brian Cayce Debra L Delaet Ariel Krueger David C. Brearley Bro. Lawrence Triolo John J. Collins Sr. Ann Donnelly, C.S.C Sigi Loya Kim M. Holley Joetta Handrich Schlabach Molly Sturges Rev. Ray Massart, C.S.CiC Malk Poorman, C.S.C. Ann K. Lout Goe McCarty Joan C. Prendergast Gerald W. Schlabach Hugh M. Gallagher Kassie Misiewicz Frederick W. Pfotenhauer Janice M. Poorman Carol Smaller Kevin Ranney Sarah Quie Joan M. Keams Mark ThesingiC Shawn C. Allan Anthony W. Keaty Kristina S. Skiles Patricia Anne McCabe Mark Chien-Chong Chen Mark Welter Suzanne Schwarz Michael E. O'Keefe Charles WiUiarn Miller Daniel Lee John Thurber John H. Haas Jr. Sigrid Arzt Anthony V. Szakaly, C.S.CiC 
Mlarci Sulak Regina C. Wilson Jane Feliz Steven Buechler Cynthia W. Haas Robert Johansen John P.ReaKion, C.S.C iC VICtoria Esposito fiiTiothy L.alle Stephanie Shea Ht.man Serrano Barbara Goller Marion Shaer Br. Paui.McDooougll, C.S,C, Joseph Buttigieg Annie C. McGuire William A. Leheny Stephan Stolz Franz Goller Liesl FIChardt Joseph.Godtrey, CS.CiC Richard Clare McBrien Jeffrey T. Vander Wilt Alfredo Perez DeyunWu Nancy Dallavalle Paul Theron Pat Ell 
iC 
iC 
iC 
• 
iC ~ 
•
iC
•

•
iC iC • While we agree that Iraq must leave Kuwait, we feel that this enormously destructive war iC is an inappropriate and disproportionate means of achieving this objective.iC
• 
• We believe that this is not a war of last resort. Economic sanctions were not given sufficient time to achieve their objective and diplomatic options were by no means exhausted. 
• 
iC 
• We believe that this war does not serve the interests of the United States. Nor will it contribute to Middle East stability or global security.
iC •
• 
iC 
• We call for a cease fire and a concerted international effort to resolve this crisis. 
~ 
• ~ 
Krista McCan Barbara Allen Lisa D. Sherman Julia F. Knight James Stukas Kerrie Ann Shannon David J. Scheidler, C.S.C George L. Coleman Baumes Michael Darren Cook Gian Mario Besana Douglas R. Anderson Michael J. Colombo Louie Rivetti, C.S.C 
• ~ 

Lisa M. Jordan Teresa Ghilarducci Keely Bishop George Ashline Matthew J. Dyer Andrew Hilger James Ferguson, C.S.C Chris Vanden Bossche Gerald P. Berk Thomas Michael Esch, C.S.C. Zeljko Sokolovic Michael McGettrick Ellen White Steve Nam, C.S.C ~
iC 
Mary Sue Twohy Leda Mcintyre Hall Robert A. Svoboda-Stel Anand Pillay Zahra B. Kamarei Rodrigo Anadon Karl Rohling Richard Conroy David M. Klein WUiiam Kremer DominiQue P. Laflamme Pit-Mann Wong Dan Manier Brian Levin Jay Caponigro Jennifer Glass Kevin V. Heffernan Chad W. German Michele Intermont Joe Bratetich Donald Guertin, C.S.C 
Brad Grabs Andrew J. Weigert John J. Boncek Joel P. Cooper Elaine la'NSon Tony Gentine Jeffrey Cooper, C.S.C 
•

Jeffery D. Long Percival Everett William J PurceU, Jrc c.s.c. Denis J. Undquist JeffreyS. Novotny AI Neiman Corey Timpson ~ Drew Buscareno Richard Williams Christopher W. ox Michael R. Sherer Mitzi Kugler Janet Meissner Pam Smith Joseph Gress David Palumbo Robert A. Belde Virginia Ori Christina Pesoli Sean F. Reardon Jim X. Sullivan 
Bill Updike Joseph Sophy Eric E. Dyck Adine Rodemeyer Tim A. Terwey Toomas Sillaste Robert Dickinson Kathryn J. O'Connor Tracy H. Wadleigh Joseph Hoang Annette M. Palacios Joel I. Barstad Michael 0. Garvey Mary Beth Welch John-Paul Checkett Barbara A. Pietraszewski John R. Forti~.S.B. Melissa K. Bell Leslie Barstad Jill Borowicz Michael David Smith
iC Michael Affleck Mason M. Evans Michael E. Me rry, Ill Kate O'Connor Annamaria Ballarino Janet Mead Margaret McMahon Michael B. Evans V. J. Krebs Anton P. Eppich David Koppana Karen Sauer Brian C. Conway Dan Mackey ~ Jennifer K. Furey Vaughn McKim Marl< Miller, C.S.S.R. Paul J. Griffiths Kathryn Van Kuren Slumko Tsotsi Martin Murphey 
• ~ 
• 
Nicole M. DeMatteis Tim Nicknish Mary Ann White J. M. Heyhoe Andrew VanKuren Karen Slawner Thomas Jemielity Veronica L. Gonzalez Irwin Press Jose Pedro Martinez Anthony Garascia Emily VanKuren David Pritchard Michael Brownstein ~ Joseph Araman F. Clark Power Thomas K. Zurcher, C.S.C. Mary Beth Garascia John P. Dwyer George A. Lopez Ronald Weber Br. Elmo, C.S.C Sam Nigro David J. Macioler Dian& R. Wilson Karen Dwyer Robert C. Johansen Randy Klawiter ~ Br. Subal L. Rozario, C.S.C Mark Anderlik John Whelan J. Massyngbaerck Ford Alan Undsay Rita M. Kopczynski Fred W. Syburg Karen E. Stemm Dolores Warwick Frese Karen a. Lynch Claire Bardenheier J. M. Olivas John J. Gilligan Reginald F. Bain ~ Kelly Reuba Mohammad Aessa Gina E. Cammarano Michael G. Clinton Suzanne McMahon Caroline Domingo David Gasperetti 
~ 

~ Miriam Braganza Deer Azar Br. Thomas Combs, C.S.C. Reynold F. Nesiba V~anna Colucci Albert H. LeMay Erskine Peters John F. Daly, IV Mary Lee Freeman James Sullivan Julia S. James Randi Terry Erika M. Valenzuela James Dougherty ~ ~ Amy Gibbs Christopher Fox Stephen Ruemenapp Michael J. James Joanie Louise Toner Nancy Powers Robert Lordi Jeanine M. Cook Michael Kremer Ph.D. Jan Pilarski Paul J. Weithman Esohe ldusogie Edna Mutchler J. Blenkinsopp ~ 
1 
~ 
Ann Clark Sharon O'Bnen Mike Mathews Marian David Jenifer Smead Jeanne Day J. Eduardo Woff 
~ 

~ Anna Marie Tabor Peter M. Conwell Mark Bellafante Angela Gugliotta Garth Meintjes Daniel K. Lapsley Martin L. Miller 
L. Toni Olivieri Jason L. Winslade Betsy Kromer Peter A. Jarret, C.S.C. Kaneko Toshio Cynthia Schellenbach Gerard J. Scully~ Victoria Bender Maeve M. O'Donovan Robert J. Loughery C.S.C. Andrew Dross Tom Reichat Martha J. Poorman Greg Murphy 
•

Kathleen A. Poole Kurt A. Mills Jennifer Boynton Jacob B. Landry Christine Labarec Cindy Wernimont John P. Maxwell it
~ 
Sarah Gay Mee-Ae Kim C. A. Schaffer Steve Ruemenaff Lisa Eaton Christine Kempf Timmy Sullivan 
~ 

~ Ann Stackpoole Rosanna Landis Kathleen Hipp Bruce L. Cecil, C. S.C. Saralynn Greene Mary K. Dittrich Thomas J. Mustillo Anne Hart David Schindler, Jr. James Flanigan, C.S.C. Ruth Mulligan, R.S.M. Christina A. Gumett Naomi M. Meara Prof. E. E. Won ~ ~ Renee A. H. Young Maria R. Garvey Rosi Lozada Bonnie J. Burnett Lissa Van Bebber Scott E. Maxwell Sally Coleman 
Rebecca Ciletti Robert C. McMahon Susan Petti Robert Andreasen, C.S.C. Frederic B. Krol Jr. Debbie Brady Wendy Settle ~ ~ Mary Turgi Noreen T. Bowden Sarah Jane Vakkur David Kapes David Krier Christy Anderson Elise Irwinit Donna Kompare Mary Ellen Townsend Dr. George Vakkur Br. James Martin, C.S.C. David Scantling Peter WaJshe Julie Ann Zielinski 
•

Kimberly Kennouin Paul A. Peralez Carmel Vakkur Wilma Hens Jeff Jotz Ambar Cho'Mlhury David P. Fitzgerald ~it Meg Lehner Catherine A. Cunningham Marvin Robinson Maria Anne Cataldo Catherine Sheehy Alan D. Vlach Len Hickman Lynn Amon T. F. McCarthy Meredith McCullough R. Duffy Satoko Nakagawa Katrin Tent Rita Donley ~ ~ Melissa A. Petersmarck Maria Eva Jukic Kathryn A. McMahon Maria J. Fleming David Cortright Ken Grant Clint Gabbard 
it

it Rosalind Clalk Bruce Brackney Mary Louise Foley John E. Kelly Krishna M. Chaudhary Thomas Zipprich Patrick Utz Julie Ryan Denis Goulet Tanya J. Pinto Carl Loesch Allan R. Crosbie Kent Dorfman Willis Bartlett it ~ Peter D. Smith SamAraman Nancy Franklin Matt Zynieuvicz Wongang Porod William R. Bon Durant Augustus E. Jordan Corrine A. McGuigan Rashid Khalidi Hanna Eid Rich Goode Emily Neufeld John Sanderson Erin C. Maloneyit Linnea B. Vacca Gabriel R. Shakour Barbara Pinkowski Mary Ann White Anne Hayner Nancy K. Stanton Ellen A. Feeney Thomas F. Bonnell Jennifer Neidenbach Margaret Nowlin Br. Orlando Gosdowski, C.S.C. Karen L. Przygoda Brian Smyth Robert T. Stevenson Jerry McElroy Garrett Pool Claudine Hoorinks Muhiirwa Robert 
Keith J. Egan Gabor Forrai DoriWhite Laurie Garry ~r--------------------1
I would like to add my name to the more than 100 faculty and 500 other
Jane A. O'Malley Tatiana Trachenko Nanci Williams John Wise 
I members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community listed here. I
Sr. Rose Anne Schultz, C.S.C Wachi ra Njenga L. Edward Phillips Laurie Douglass John W. Wright Juyan Zhang Tzu-Sung Chen Grace Coutinho Joseph Miller Nadimit Khmelkou Sean B. Scanlon David C. Kelly I Name I 
Esmee Cromie Bellalta .Julie Hart Bradley S. Glass German Sanchez 
I Return to: Stop the War I
ann-Marie Haley Gary Gutting Ana Zablah Prof. Mohamed Gad-ei-Hak 
P.O. Box 1045L Notre Dame, IN 46556 _j
A. Melissa Moye William Ramsey Margaret Squyres Dr. Stephen Batill I I 


l 
\ By RICH SZABO 
\ 

Sports Writer I 
With a chance to strengthen its national ranking, the Notre Dame women's tennis team travels to Bloomington, Indiana this weekend to compete against some of the best teams in the country. 
The Irish, ranked 25th in the Volvo Collegiate poll, will face South Carolina on Friday, William & Mary on Saturday, and Indiana on Sunday. The Hoosiers are the top-rated team in the region, with the Irish second. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback is not overemphasizing the week­end matches, but feels that the team will respond to the chal­lenge with strong perfor­mances. 
"Indiana is 16th and South Carolina 17th," said Louderback. "William & Mary did not make the poll, but Trinity's (College) number one and two singles players trans­ferred there and they may be the best team this weekend, even though they are not ranked. We could easily come out 0-3 or 3-0. We don't know, but I think we will hang in there in all three matches." 
With such strong competition, the Irish will need solid performances from all players. Junior Tracy Barton will play number-one singles, but the rest of the singles lineup is sub­ject to potential rearrange­ment 
Louderback said, "From two through six (singles) we are very equal in level. We will not do a lot of changing around, but it depends on who we're
I 
l 
playing." 
Melissa Harris, Lisa Tholen,
' 
i ' 
Terri Vitale, Kim Pacella, and
I., 
Katie Clark will probably fill
i) 
out the singles slate for the Irish. Christy Faustmann, nor­
1J 
\ ' 
\ () 

--~-t..---.·-Liiii~iill---­
[~~~llair('uttj~ ('•~; J 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTUR.S 
GRAPE AD, MISHAWAKA 
277-7~ 
Daily 9-8 I Sat. 9~ • Sun. 11-5 
IllALUMNI SENIOR 
\ i Irish hope to solidify poll position 
~CLUB 
,J 
page 16 The Observer Friday, February 15, 1991 
SENIORS: Get away from the "Parent Stress"-come by 
The Club for lunch, baseball night, and the Saturday specials! 

Tracy Barton 
mally in one of the top singles spots, is still out. She started light hitting this week, but, said Louderback, "It will be slow for a while, with nothing really physical." 
Just what style of play does this team, now 5-0 and looking to climb in the poll, prefer? 
"I think our team hits the ball very hard from the baseline generally," said Harris, "and goes for winners from there. Christy is one of the more well­rounded players. It's hard that we don't have her for this weekend, but Lisa and Terri 
• 
• 
can do anything. The freshmen have really made a difference." 
Whatever strategy is used, be it baseline groundstrokes or aggressive serve-and-volley, the Irish will need to be at the top of their game this weekend and are definitely up for the chal­lenge. 
Tholen said, "Everyone is strong at their positions and playing up to their capabilities. This weekend will show us how good we are and what kind of shot we have at the NCMs." 
While these are key contests against the type of competition Notre Dame needs to play to prove itself, Louderback felt that losses would not break the team's season, as many more matches will be played in the spring. Victories, however, would certainly solidify the team's national stature. 
As far as the effort needed this weekend is concerned, per­haps Melissa Harris summed it up best, saying, "If all of us can pull it together completely for one weekend, this would defi­nitely be the best time to do it." 
=-------------~----------------~--~-----------· 
" ·• 1111 
: .-II II 
•.. : 1111
...................+nnn = 
C H I C 
JUNIORS: 
Have a great JPW! Bring your parents 
to the Club! 
•
•
•
• 
-: 
Olivieri leads Belles into action 
By EMILY WILLETT  "I feel that I need to provide  
Sports Writer  motivation  for  the  other  
swimmers," she explained. "I  
am excited for my last meet,  

Saint Mary's senior Toni Olivieri winds down a successful collegiate swimming career against Olivet College tonight at 6 pm at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Looking back on her experi­ence as a member of the Saint Mary's swim team, Olivieri finds it to be a positive one. 
"It was fun to swim on the collegiate level since I never swam competitively before," she said. 
Olivieri adjusted well to collegiate competition. At Saint Mary's, she qualified for the NAIA Nationals both her freshman and junior years and was selected as a Scholar-Athlete last year. She spent her sophomore year in Rome. 
As a team captain, Olivieri plays a role in building and maintaining team unity. 
A fAMILY (OMEDY _
4 :30 
IDIEALONe~
..m '-~ 715­
9:30 


$3.00
T()Will tol11try 
All5mws 2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259·9090 Before6pm 
~~fSNE/"' PIOURE5 
L.A. STORY 5:oo­
--wH"rT'E 4:45­
sTEvE 7:3o­
~ 7:00­
MARTIN ~ 9:45
~ .1.~NG 9:30 
jodie foster
tho silonco of tho lambs 
II 
anthony hopkins scott glenn 
4:30-7:15-9:45 
11 HELL·B41SING, ~4$SIQNATE AND BOLDLY HILARIOUS! 
ANOTHER INVIGORATING MASTERWORK FROM SPAIN'S MOST EXPLOSIVE TALENT'" 
Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
.. SPONTANEOUSLY SEXY! 
A SOPHISTICATED BATILE OF THE SEXES BY THE MAN WHO MADE 'WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A 
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN'," 
-Bruce Williamson, PLAYBOY MAGAZINE 
..REMARKABLE! OUTRAGEOUS 
~-----------­
AND DAB_I_NG!" 
MIRAMAXtllMs ....... aofsfosA. :. .,.AlMooovAR mMt ur1 m VICTORIA ABRil ANTONIO 8ANOtRA~ lOlES ltDN ;;,.::JRANCtSCO RABAl 

DUE TO THE MATURE NATURE OF THIS FILM NO ONE UNDER 18 WILL BE ADMITTED 
Cinema at the Snite TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:30 , 9:45 
but I know that I will miss the closeness of our team.~ 
Knowing that this is her final season at Saint Mary's, Olivieri is not disappointed with her performance. 
"This is the best season that I've had at Saint Mary's. I had a great time meeting all the new people and ended up swimming well," she said. 
Olivieri's last home meet is against an Olivet team which provides only mild competition for the Belles, providing an opportunity for the freshmen to take control of their events. Head Coach Dennis Cooper, however, has no special expectations going into the meet. 
"This is just a fun meet,~ he explained. "It will be good for the team because it will be easy and uplifting before the finals.~ 
julia roberts 4:45­
sleeping with ~~!~­
the enemy@ 


........____________________________________.
I , 

Friday, February 15, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Men's tennis to face three tough opponents at Eck 
By KEN TVSIAC Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team will have to get over Wednesday's heartbreaking 5-4 defeat at the hands of a tough Indiana squad in a hurry. 
The Irish (3-3) will have to get back to business this week­end when they host three matches in three days at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Notre Dame will entertain Southern Illinois Friday at 3 p.m., Illinois Saturday at 11 a.m. and North Carolina Sunday at noon. 
Although the 13th-ranked Irish aren't looking past the first two matches, the one they are gearing up for is the match versus No. 15 North Carolina. The Tar Heels, coached by former Wimbledon quarterfi­nalist Allen Morris, may be even better than their ranking indicates. 
"They are very good," Irish coach Bob Bayliss says of the Tar Heels. "In my opinion, they are a top-10 team. They have everybody back, and they have added two new players, one who is a legitimate threat to win the NCAA tournament." 
That would be Roland Thornquist, a Swedish-born 
player who won the NAIA na­tional title last year while at Elan College in straight sets. Thornquist went home in the fall, but enrolled at North Carolina this semester and should start at first singles against Dave DiLucia of the Irish. 
"He (Thornquist) is a pro­level player," Bayliss says. "His match with David should be a contrast in strengths. Thornquist is a very aggressive baseliner. while DiLucia is more of a classic serve-and-volley player. They will play right into each other's strengths; that match alone will be worth the price of admission. For David, he may have to play the best match he can play to win." 
The Tar Heels are not just strong at first singles. Second­singles player Brian Jones was one of only 64 players chosen to participate in the NCAA tournament last year. Woody Webb at third singles is the 28th-ranked player in the na­tion. And senior captain Andre Janacik, who plays at fourth singles, has been solid for Carolina throughout his career. 
Although the Irish are looking forward to the match with North Carolina, getting big wins in the matches on Friday and Saturday will be a concern as well. 
"Playing well in those first two matches is important," Bayliss says. "We can't take anybody lightly with the sched­ule we play. and we will have to play hard .in both of those first two matches." 
Southern Illinois is led by Joe DeMeterco at first singles and Rikard Stenstrom at second singles. DeMeterco is an ag­gressive groundstroker with a good forehand, while Stenstrom is a baseline player who is extremely steady. 
Illinois will go with Mark Krajewski at number-one sin­gles and David Nasser at num­ber two. 
"We had a very tough match with Illinois last year," Bayliss says. "We won 6-3, and there were many three-set matches." 
Stamina could be a problem for the Irish, but they will spread out their lineup to com­bat any fatigue which may oc­cur after playing three matches in three days. After the grueling six-hour loss to Indiana. Notre Dame will need all the rest it can get. 
"We will try to get some dif­ferent players to lift some of the load," Bayliss said. "The stamina part of it will be a big factor. David (DiLucia) had to play six tennis matches in six days last weekend, and that's definitely a concern." 

Drabek wins case, awarded record amount 
NEW YORK (AP) -Don Mattingly's salary arbitration record lasted four years. Wally Joyner's lasted five days. 
National League Cy Young Award winner Doug Drabek broke Joyner's mark on Thursday with the first $3 million award in arbitration history. Raymond Goetz, who heard the case on Wednesday in Chicago, picked the 28-year­old right-hander's request of $3,335,000 instead of the team's offer of $2.3 million. 
"Salaries are going up a lot, but people don't complain about movies stars making (big) money; they still go to the movies," Drabek said. "We're in the entertainment business. just like movie stars and rock stars. You have to go where the market is and adjust yourself to the changes." 
On another busy day in the baseball salary market. Fred McGriff and the San Diego Padres formally announced their $15.25 million, four-year deal, which gives him the fifth­best salary in baseball. If the Padres exercise their 1995 option, McGriff would get $19 million over five years. 
Left-hander Chuck Finley, who had been scheduled for a hearing on Thursday, tripled his salary when the California Angels settled at $2.5 million, a 
==== 

$1.7 million raise. 
In other settlements, right­hander Jeff Robinson and Baltimore agreed to $575,000, a $165,000 raise, while out­fielder Kevin Romine and Boston agreed to $355,000, a $95,000 raise. 
Right-hander Willie Fraser and Toronto settled at $750,000, a $340,000 raise, while right-hander Mark Portugal and Houston agreed to $705,000, a $488,000 raise. 
Los Angeles infielder Lenny Harris, who is not yet eligible for arbitration, agreed to $315,000, a $170,000 raise. 
Players and owners have split the eight cases decided by arbitrators, and 28 players remain scheduled for hearings. 
Drabek's record may not last long. Bobby Bonilla and Pittsburgh had their hearing Thursday and the outfielder is asking for $3,475,000. The team is offering $2.4 million. 
Drabek, 28, became the fourth highest-paid pitcher in baseball behind Roger Clemens ($5,380,250}, Dave Stewart ($3. 5 million) and Bob Welch ($3.45 million). Drabek became the 38th player and first Pirate with a $3 million contract. 
"We're delighted ... but we thought we clearly won,H said Randy Hendricks, one of Drabek's agents. "The Pirates were respectful and cordial in negotiations, but they came in with a low-ball figure." 
Drabek won $1.1 million in arbitration last year, when he was 22-6 with a 2.78 ERA for the National League East champions. He was a near­unanimous choice for the Cy Young Award, receiving 23 of 24 first-place votes. 
Only last Saturday, Joyner won a $2.1 million salary, breaking the previous record of $1,975,000, set by Mattingly in 1987. 
P.I.M.E. MISSIONARIES 
Fulfilling one's lite through a missioMry vocation 
~ 
The Pontifical lllltltuta tor Fcnign Waions (the PIME Miuiorwiel) is .n inlerNIIionel c:om­munity of Catholic priem Md laymen who m8ke a ll'-long COII1IIIibMnt to continuing the miUion of Jesus c~ In the tnocllm world. 
W. 1i11e ._Golpel in~. Brazil. tb1g Kong. India. Jap.n, My.nmer, Papua New Gum., PhlllppiMS, TaiwM, Thdand and Welt Africa among the poor Md unchurclled. 
Founded In bly In 1850, • group of diOC»­AII pMIIa, at the ~of their biiiiDpe, gr8W in lllelr understanding ol just pre. ciaely what God was calling them to be. A mis­sionary must be open to dialogue, prayer and 811111assllfiNiee, especially to the poor. The mis­sionary tnust leam how to be a sign of shared tMh betwMn well established European and American local churches and peoples where the Church is just beginning. The missionary must know haw to .nnounce the Klngdom of God while being a 1orce for transformation of those societal values which do not build up that Kingdom. 
If you are a young man betwMn 18 and 35. in good health and spirits, axcited to live your faith in the missionary way described above, send in or call for information today. 
Fr. John J. MaiD PWE MISSIONARIES 35750 MoraNn Or. FRASER. MICHIGAN 480215 ....... (313) 781·2100 




The Observer 
page 18 
Women's hoops meets Miami of Ohio
\ 
I 
F 
RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team (18-4) takes a break from MCC play this weekend as it hosts Miami of Ohio at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
\ t 
The Redskins own a 2-1 ad­vantage in the career series
ll\' 
with the Irish, but the two 
teams have not met since the 
1982-1983 season. 
I j 
Miami (9-12), defending Mid­American Conference champi­
ons, are struggling this season, 
\I having lost four straight before \. Wednesday night's gameI against Ball State. Irish coach 
'\ i 
\. 
Muffet McGraw characterized
I 
the Redskins as an "up-and­
) 
down team," which concerns her heading into Sunday's
!. 
matchup.
\. 
l 
I "Because of the MAC's auto­I matic bid, they could very well I be an NCAA Tournament team," McGraw said. "It's im­portant for us to win so that if they would make the tourna-
I \ Temple
It 
I \ \ 
continued from page 20 
started every game in the mid­
l ; dle for the Owls and leads the I\' team in rebounds with 7.7 per \I. 
contest. 
I This will be the fourth con­secutive Saturday that Notrel Dame has played a big game on national television. The Irish
I l 
lost two one-point games to Virginia and Syracuse and l\ dropped a 13-point contest to 
\ ~ 
Duke. After the Temple contest, 
Notre Dame will meet St. John's \ and Louisville the next two \ weekends. 
Joe Ross got his first start of the season earlier in the week 
I 
l \ I ,I 
at Marquette and responded
I 
with six points in 18 quality
I) 
minutes. Twin Jon Ross (2.5
\ ~' 
ppg, 2.1 rpg) could also get the
\1 
starting nod. 
\ 
Kevin Ellery (11.5 ppg, 5.0 1 rpg) will start at one forward \ with junior Keith Tower (7.5
I 
ppg, 6.4 rpg) in the middle. 
I 
Both Ellery and Tower have ; r stepped up a notch after the 
\ . 
loss of leading scorer and re­
I\ 
bounder LaPhonso Ellis to aca­l! demic ineligibility. 
L 
Senior captain Tim Singleton 
(6.0 ppg) and junior Elmer 
Bennett (14.5 ppg) will start atI guard, while Daimon Sweet is j' Notre Dame's leading scorer at ,. 15.4 points off the bench. 


ment, it's another team in the tourney that we've beaten. That makes it a big game for us." 
Having a non-conference game deep into the conference slate can cause problems for some teams, especially if they are fighting for league titles. With Notre Dame dominating the MCC this season, however, McGraw welcomes the change of pace. 
"We get in a rut when we start playing just conference teams." she said. "We've al­ready beat them once, and we come into the games a little complacent, knowing we can win. This is good to be playing a team you have not seen." 
Irish assistant coach Kathleen Weber characterizes the Redskins as a "halfcourt-style team," one which runs sparingly and will try to slow the pace down against Notre Dame. 
For the Irish to be successful, Weber believes two Miami play­P.rs mn.;t especially be kept un-
I 
AOFFLEA PHONE (219) 233-4957 
SORB IE ~ PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
.­
ROCCO'S STYlf SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING 
der control. The first is center Julie Howell (13.1 ppg, 4.9 rpg), the team's leading scorer and rebounder, while Kelley Berens (8.9 ppg, 4.5 rpg) is the Redskins' most active player on the boards. 
"(Berens) is a very aggres­sive, hard-working, hard-nosed type of player. We're going to concentrate on keeping her otT the boards," Weber said. 
Unlike several of Notre Dame's latest opponents, Miami is not a good three-point shooting team, hitting only 25 percent of its threes. Overall, the Redskins shoot 44.8 percent from the field. 
Miami sports a very balanced scoring attack. Howell is the only Redskin averaging in dou­ble figures, but five other play­ers, including Berens, score at least 8.5 points per game. 
The other Miami starters are forward D'Nella Seiple (6.4 ppg) and guards Adrienne Spatz (9.4 ppg) and Regina Smith (9.0 ppg, 4.5 apg). 
The Observer/David Lee Sophomore Coquese Washington will key the Notre Dame women's basketball team's attack as it hosts Miami of Ohio this weekend. 
"kke ~ 4#Ut utt IU4' euui tl4d ~· 
Am5SORIES-REPAIRS-LESSONS 241 DIXIE WAY N-US 33 (OLD 31) one mile north of ) ( 

St. Mary·s College Roseland 

GUITARS -AMPS MON-FAt 12:00 NOON -6pmCALLior SAT. hours 
CRATE-ALVAREZ-YAMAHA 
I 272-7510 I
WESTONE • TAYLOR . . 
DICK WISNER . OWNER 
~-1M(jj

~n 

~FINE­DINING & LOUNGE ~ 
0 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
Bring your parents to the Polo Club for an evening of fine dining and later dance to the SO's and 60's music of PHAZES. 
Make your reservations today! 
289-7656 
1345 N. Ironwood Drive South Bend 

LUNCH SPECIII.L Mon.-Fri. All Month 
Free Hot Soup With Any Sandwich Purchase 
Open 7 Days A Week At 6:30A.M. 
All Month Apple Pancakes 
$JOO 
OFF 
No Coupon Needed 
Welcome Junior ' Parents 
U.S. 31 North In Ro••land (Acrou From The Holiday Inn) 272-7433 
l~=~t=~t~~{{:??~{~~{}:?~:)}}){{{{{{:}}}}}~:}}}}}~:{}~:}}}}~{{{{{:}}){{{{{:~:}}){{{:)~:~:~:}}~{:}~{{:)}}~{:}}}~{:~:}~{{{{{{:}){{{{:}})}~{{:)}~{{{{{{{:}~:~:~:~:~:~<=?:11111t 
Im THE CATHOLIC FAITH SERIES ::}[ 
\ . 
I i, 
••••••• HOLINESS IN THE NEW TESTAMENT 
••••••• :~:~:::~;~::~ ~~t~s ;J;:~~t!~;i~:~:
••••••• ::!~:n~~ i::a'11.J~~~:~:7; :::.,::;~!: 
(} holy priesthood." In the Bible "holiness" 
······· :::;.~~:::,gg~~r:.m:;::.:ir~e :0~~:~~ 
I \ 
······· ;~:E£ga~;::~:~~ =:E t;;.~::::!~f~~ 
( f 
~ ~~~:~:.}'!, :::a~;:h:::;~:~t::~~':;. 
of 
l \ \ 
Sunday, February 17, 7-8:30 p.m. ­
\ l 
~~:~~~t~~~~!? ~:~~~:n;:~:;~~~ot:~~~2~ •••••••• 
taught at Georgetown, Vanderbilt, The 
j 
~Ei~rog!~~~::~r"~f~~:re~~!~r ::::n~:~sd;~: ••••••• 
Gospel in Parable: Metaphor. Narrative and 
;ehr:~~g;s i~o~~~ lt~0 ~~!icth~ o;;:t~;al H~e~:~ 
~~~:neat::.~ B~E~:~~~~co~~~~dJ:~::o[~~ ••••••• ~ri:~i:n ~~:~;nan~e~:~~:ittw~~~d :;~:~~~~g 

Keenan-Stanford Chapel 


I l =~~=~=~:}}}}}}~{=====~=>~{=~=}~<=~=}~=~=~=~=?~<=~=~===~=~=:==i0r====~t~{~=~1f:==>~}=~!~~m=/=~~:\}:>==:~:~=g>~=~:~=~~~<L=:~{B~=====E~g;;;r:=:=:I=r~:ili:~=I:Ii=zr:=~=:=:=:=:=>:=~~t~=~=:=~=:===>>>>>>~{:}::f~{=~=~=~=~=~:}}:{{{:~:!!IIJJ1 




Friday, February 15, 1991 
The Observer page 19 
LECTURES CROSSWORD 



~~"\  
~,~...  
~  ~<l~  .~~  
..1 .\,~.,  ~'(\ n;,~~·. '\,'J ~·  cs,'l­~' •...,o~'\  

~o~ ~~ ti,,o ~\) a~~~ ~ 
v ~,, ~,~ 
~v~c;~ SOPHOMORE 


7:30 and 9:45 pm. Cinema at the Snite: "Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down" Friday and Saturday night. 
MENU 
ACROSS  27 Regatta  58 Birdie beater  
1 Pilgrimage to Mecca 5ASAP 90bi  implement 29 Makes lace 33 "--Nation," 1988film  59 Diplomat's forte 60Junction 61 Haughty 62 An arum  
13 One of the  34 Excuse  63 Speaker of  
Oceanids  36 Court  baseball fame  
14 Garden planters 15 Rebound  37 More of "sour grapes"  64 Labels 65 Transit patron  


MUCH TO tf/5 CHAC.Ii'IN , 6/LL PISC.OVERS TH/IT "WHAT APPEARED TO BE A SvccesSFVL N/6tHf OF "qETTINu CHIC.K·S PHONE NUiliBERS AT 1lf£. BAR" HAS ACTUAL~Y BEEN A OIS(l'Hl L FAILURE. 

Notre Dame 
Irish Fried Flounder Stuffed Flounder Vegetable Calzone 
Saint Mary's 
Broccoli Cheddar Quiche Pita Pizza Baked Perch Dijonaise Broiled Tomatoes 
by Bill Watterson Calvin and Hobbes 
[X) 'ioJ THit-l't( TIGER'S GO It> 
THE SAM£. H£P\IJ£N lt\r-.1 Pt.OPL£. ~ TO.,. .-..----K 
0~ \\\£ O~tR ~-~~~0. 1-\g...I.Jffi ~T BE IJ£.R'{ ~ICE N!THOUr TIGERS, EITI\ER. I WOJLD~~ 8£ AAI'P'( If "11\E~ WER£~1 fll\\.'{ IIGtRS 
ro MISS \\\EtA.. 
W.~& 1\Gt.\B J\JS\ (X)~'\ £AI 1'£01'\.E \t{ IHNHt 
16 Petiole 11 Smidgen 18 Rowing group 19 Start of a 
rejected suitor's "sour grapes" 22 Cheers for a matador 23Japanese apricot 24 Fabric for shirts or shorts 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~:::..+;'+=-! ~.!+-+;:...1=+-=--l ~~.j.!..:.4....!..+==-l 
~
~m•••• 
.=.r.;:..+.:,:+.=:-.:..:::.+=~~ -~~~ :..:.:.,j..:~'+=-~ 
~!]ftl!JII.
..!:! 
~~=-F-+=1 
~::..j.::+,;.~ 
~~:.....=..L.;;.J 
40 Mon. chaser 41 Loci 42 Large artery 43 Tots 45 Vandalize 46 Passerine birds 47 Common article 49 Where Anna 
taught so End of "sour grapes" 
66 Posted 
DOWN 
1 "Now-thou thy desire": Shak. 
2 Vino district 3 Fades gradually 4 Scout gathering s Musical 
compositions &Jogs 7 Kitty sweller a Former ruler 9 Powder bag 
10--Gracia, Argentine resort 11 Balkan native 12 Jekyll's evil alter 
15 Study or cuddy
ego20 lmpofos 21 Type of car 24 Locale of 1989 
summitry
25 Not whispered 26 Did a gainer 27 More 
antiquated 281s unwell 
300nto 31 Radio role for 
John Todd 32 Fountain treats 34 Pier 35 Old Testament 
book 38 Pointed a 
blunderbuss 39 Pesters 44 Record needle 46 Mature or Jory 
SPELUNKER 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
46Mind 49--Coeur (Parisian 
basilica) so Clan division 51 "G.W.T.W." 
plantation 52 Excited 53 Northern U.S. 
outpost 54 Cote sounds 55 Knowledge se Jupiter's Norse 
counterpart 57Takefive 

THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 


Sports 
page 20 
Friday, February 15, 1991 
Robinson scores

Irish go for fourth road victory in a row 
20 as Irish defeat Lady Titans 87-62 
Observer Staff Report 
The 20th-ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team raced to an 87-62 victory over MCC rival Detroit last night. 
The Irish overcame a great 
• Miami Preview I page 18 
discrepancy at the foul line to gain the victory. Notre Dame went to the charity stripe only four times the whole game as compared to Detroit's 20 free throws. 
The Irish had six players in double figures, led by Karen Robinson's 20 points and eight assists. Coquese Washington, Sara Liebscher and Margaret Nowlin all chipped in 13. 
The Lady Titans were led by Mandy Chandler with 18 points. Nowlin did an excellent job containing Sharon Miller, hold­ing her to only seven points, eight under her season average. 
Notre Dame shot 56 percent from the field for the game while holding Detroit to only 43 percent. 
The Irish also enjoyed a 39­32 rebounding advantage over the Lady Titans. 
New women's programs struggle to be competitive 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
WOMEN IN 
Women's athletics at Notre Dame indeed appears to be SPORTS headed in the right direction 

Notre Dame tries to ground Owls' drive to NCAA tourney 
Bv GREG GUFFEY us coming off Marquette," 
Sports Editor Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps said. "It should be an in­teresting match-up." 
The road has suddenly turned The Owls definitely try to kind to the Notre Dame bas­light it up from beyond the ketball team. three-point line. They have 
The Irish will take a three­made 148 of 402 three-point game road winning streak into attempts in comparison to Saturday's game with Temple Notre Dame's 79 of 197. at Hershey Arena. The game is Mark Macon and Vic set for a 2:30 p.m. tipoff on Carstarphen are Temple's big NBC and coincides with the an­guns from long range. Macon nual Chocolate Lover's averages 22.6 points per game Weekend. and has hit 62 trifectas, while 
Notre Dame generally has Carstarphen scores at a 10.3 struggled away from the Joyce clip with a total of 53 three­ACC the past two seasons and pointers. had a 10-game losing streak on "They'll really shoot the the road before winning at threes," Phelps said. "Temple is Miami a month ago. The Irish a very, very good team. (Temple followed that with a win at coach) John Chaney always has Dayton and then edged the kids ready to play." Marquette 63-62 on Tuesday Temple's other big offensive night in Milwaukee. threats are Mik Kilgore and 
Temple is 17-6, ranked 32nd Donald Hodge. Kilgore aver­
in the AP rankings and fighting ages 13 points and almost six for a spot in the NCAA rebounds per game, while Tournament. The Owls are Hodge scores 11.7 points and coming off a big 69-59 Atlantic pulls down seven boards a 10 Conference victory at Penn game. Mark Strickland has State on Wednesday. 
"I think it will be a big test for see TEMPLE I page 18 
II; 
NCAA rule affects Bookstore Tourney 
By MARK MCGRATH 
Sports Writer 
The 20th year of the Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment will provide a new look for all people involved. 
No longer will it be possible 
,_ 
for students, faculty, and staff 
1,1.;, to observe returning varsity 
I football players play against
r;;~ 
other members of the Notre
I'"· 
Dame community. The great 
l't I~ performances of people such as 
I i Dorsey Levens, Demetrius '.( DuBose, and Ray Griggs will be missed by all. The culprit of this misfortune is a new NCAA rule limiting spring football practice. This rule had been pending for two years and was passed this win­ter at the NCAA convention. In the past, the rule regard­ing spring practice allowed much more flexibility. The football team had 36 days in which they could practice on 
20. This flexibility allowed the coaching staff to release play­ers from practice if they had a Bookstore game. 
However, the new rule only allots 21 days for a team to practice a total of 15 days. Because of the rule, the coach­ing staff will not be able to re­lease any players to play in the Bookstore tournament. 
The Irish have 68 scholarship players returning for next year. 
•' 
.I "It would be disastrous to the team to release any players to play Bookstore because spring allow the team to get together tournament. practice is when the team for sooner," said Levens. "Bookstore Basketball is one next year is formed," said "The rule has both a positive of the greatest events that hap­George Kelly, former Irish and a negative side to it," pens on this campus" said football coach and presently DuBose said. "It is good to cut coach Lou Holtz. the Assistant to the Athletic down on the time spent in prac­"Bookstore is one of the best Director. tice'. The resulting free time events on campus. It brings the 
"Both the players and the will ,provide us with more of a students together," DuBose, a coaches have an obligation to chance to do what you are here second-team All-Tournament the team, so neither will be in­for, which is to get an educa­selection last year, said. "I will volved this year," noted Kelly. tion. However, the rule miss the competition and wish I 
Irish players have different prevents us from getting even could get involved because views regarding the new rule. better as a team and as an there are many good basketball 
"I like the new rule because individual." players on the campus." spring practice started to drag Despite their views on the on last year. The new rule will new rule, all people affected allow more free time and will will miss participating in the see RULE! page14 











