
VOL. XXIII NO. 138 
TUESDAY April 30 1991 \ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S · . · 
Campus leaders react to Malloy's open letter 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Reaction to University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy's open letter on cultural diversity was varied Monday. 
In the letter, published in a two-page paid advertisement in Monday's Observer, Malloy an­nounced the establishment of a Task Force on Cultural Diversity to be co-chaired by Roland Smith, executive assistant to the President, and Father Richard Warner, counselor to the President's Office. 
The task force, according to the letter, will consist of no more than 18 members whom Malloy will choose from the faculty, staff, administration and student body. Malloy said that "representatives from established and recognized stu­dent groups with special inter­est in, or experience of this topic" would be included in the task force. . 
Warner said that a list of possible members will most likely be drafted by Malloy after consulting with different groups of people, and that the selection would probably go from there. "I would imagine it would probably be a fairly even split, between faculty, administration, and students, at both the undergraduate and graduate level," said Warner. 
Warner summarized his feel-


The Gulf Crisis Action Group unites students across campus Monday in an effort to recognize and mourn the deaths of thousands of soldiers and civilians during the conflict in the Persian Gulf. 
Earthquake strikes Soviet Georgia, leaves 40 dead 
MOSCOW (AP) -A strong was devastated by a 1988 earthquake hit Soviet Georgia earthquake that killed 25,000 • Soviet jet hijack/ page 4 on Monday, setting off rock­people. There were no reports slides in mountain villages and of damage or injuries in Arme­said Monday night about 40 killing at least 40 people, au­nia. people were killed and thorities said. Police spokesman Zurab buildings in five mountain 
The quake also was felt in Kadzhaya in the Georgian town towns suffered widespread neighboring Armenia, which of Kutaisi, near the epicenter, damage. The official Tass news 
Human rights activist discusses progress 

By MARK CAWLEY 
News Writer 
The human rights movement has been a major contributor to the processes of democrati­zation and peacemaking in the world community today, ac­cording to Edy Kaufman, head of the Harry S. Truman Peace Studies Institute at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. 
Kaufman, who spoke at the llesburgh Center Monday, gave an overview of the human rights movement and an analy­sis of the effects of this move­ment on democracy and world peace In a lecture titled "The Helevance of Human Hights for Peace and Democracy." 
Kaufman explained that the anti-slavery movement of the early 19th century marked the beginning of the international concern for human rights. He noted that since then several other international organiza­tions, such as the League of Nations, have concerned them­selves with the cause of human rights. 
"The Second World War, however, was a catalyst which created more concern for hu­man rights and world peace," he said. Kaufman said that he believes that the holocaust and the destructiveness of World War II led to a greater global consciousness of human rights abuses. The Nuremberg Trials also "asserted the right to prosecute those who commit crimes against humanity," he said. 
During the postwar era, "the pursuit of human rights was dormant because it became a politicized issue during the Cold War," said Kaufman. He added that the role of Amnesty Inter­national in de-politicizing the concern for human rights was essential to the survival of the human rights movement. 
Kaufman said that Amnesty International involved citizens at the grass roots level, a con­cept which he described as a "creative." 
"Amnesty gave you a pris­oner, with a name and a pic­ture, to work for his release. A citizen of the United States could work for a citizen of the Soviet Union," said Kaufman. 
Kaufman stated that the move to democracy in totalitar­ian states has been caused by this strong international con­cern for human rights. "I submit that countries that are moving to democracy have strong roots in human rights activities," he said. 
The relationship between peace and the human rights movement is evident according to Kaufman. "When an individ­ual is protected within his own country, his government won't violate other's rights in other countries," he said. 
Kaufman's personal goals concerning the human rights movement are to "work as a link between academia and the practitioners (of the human rights movement)," he said. 
Kaufman is also on the board of directors of Amnesty Inter­national and is currently a visiting lecturer at the University of Maryland, College Park. 
This lecture was sponsored by the Institute for Interna­tional Studies. 

ings on the letter by saying it is interesting that although it does contain many references to past successes, the end of the letter indicates "that we still have much to do." He said that the key to the letter is the "way in which he welcomes a community of transition." 
On the issue of better ac­commodating students of dif­ferent religious backgrounds, which Malloy addressed in his letter, Warner said that Notre Dame has always been a place where open discussion of faith among Catholics was strong, yet discussion among other faiths was not. 
Warner said the "basic chal­lenge Is to offer students from other faith traditions to have the chance to face and discuss elements of faith with full re­spect for the faith backgrounds of different people." 
see REACTION I page 4 

Gulf Crisis Action Group gathers to mourn victims 
By CATHY FLYNN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students and faculty gathered at the Old Fieldhouse Mall Monday to re­flect on the Persian Gulf War and to pray for its victims. 
The Gulf Crisis Action Group (GCAG) organized the event as part of their declared obser­vance yesterday of a day of mourning for all victims of the war. 
"What makes you so sad?" said graduate student Mark Kramer sarcastically. "America won this war! Our jet fighters, with their space-age technology, hit quickly and cleanly." 
This sadness united campus demonstrators to mourn the loss of what Kramer said were an estimated 100 to 200 thou­sand Iraqi and allied military deaths. He added that most of these victims were burned be­yond recognition. 
"Our responsibility for this suffering is rightfully the main focus of this day," said graduate student Janet Meissner. "We are here to mourn the un­necessary casualties of an un­necessary and unjustified war." 
Meissner stressed the costs to the U.S. as well. Each day of the war cost the U.S. $500 million, she said. 
"The tragic consequences for the U.S. are often lost or un­heard among the U.S. victory cries," Meissner said. "Every missile... represents money squandered that can no longer be used to address other prob­lems." 
The money spent in 38 hours of war is equivalent to the funds needed for an entire year 
see GCAG/page 4 
agency earlier reported 30 people killed. It was not immediately known how many people were injured. 
There were fears the death toll could rise as rescuers searched collapsed buildings in villages isolated by severed communications. 
An aftershock as powerful as the initial quake struck the re­gion at 9:33 p.m. (2:33 p.m. EDT), Tass said. U.S. Geological Survey spokeswoman Pat 
see QUAKE I page 4 


Senior is hospitalized after weekend injury 
By JOSEPH ADAMS 
News Writer 
Kevin O'Donoghue, a Notre Dame senior, remains in criti­cal hut stable condition In the intensive care unit at St. Joseph's Medical Center after undergoing surgery for a skull fracture suffered early Satur­day morning. 
O'Donoghue was severely injured between 2 and 2:30 
a.m. Saturday behind Nicola's Restaurant, 1705 South Bend Avenue, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
"We're not sure what tran­spired," said Dave Dosmann, a detective with the South Bend Police Department. Dosmann said that O'Donoghue was found conscious but incoherent at 
2:30 a.m. Saturday by an employee of Mike's Maple Lane Amoco service station, located at 1706 South Bend Avenue. 
It was at first believed that O'Donoghue had sustained the injuries in a fall, but the severity of his injuries later confirmed that he had been assaulted. Officials are not yet certain whether the assault was by an individual, a group of individuals, or by an automobile. 
O'Donoghue was taken to St. Joseph Medical Center where he underwent a surgery called "intercranial intervention early Saturday morning," according to his father, who traveled from his hometown of Plano, Texas to be with his son. 
According to his father, O'Donoghue remains In Inten­sive care and the family re­mains "optimistic" about his condition. 
Dosmann said that the South Bend police have no suspects in the incident, but that an investigation Is in progress. 
~e2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Insights for 
maintaining 


balanced life 
An insightful, young Polish philosopher once ~aid, "In college you don't learn how the world ,.,vorks; you learn how you 
IIIVOrk." 
When I first heard this 1Jtatement, I foolishly tlisregarded it, not Meredhh


because it didn't make 
sense, and not because I McCullough Uidn't believe it, but News Copy Editor !Oecause I just didn't have ------­Ume to listen. 
I was too busy running myself ragged trying !finish everything that I had gotten myself ilnto-school work, extracurricular activities, .;~md staying in touch with friends. 
Since I have always been a frrm believer in !living a balanceft life, I saw nothing wrong with what I was doing. I was enjoying life to l.he fullest. Right? 
In one way this was true, but what was the point of leading such a "balanced" lifestyle if I l'ound myself sleeping in classes, stressing CIVer those activities and spending only limited lime with friends? 
I don't know. I'm asking. 
My friends are probably reading this right now laughing, not because my picture is so !ridiculous, and not because they recognize how honest I'm being, but because I have l>een using the past tense. 
When did this stop? When did see what a mess I am? When did I make this change for th.e better? 
Well, actually, Okay. Okay. So I haven't J'eally changed-yet. But at least I recognize my problem. That's a first step, right? 
The truth is, I don't know how to do things differently. I keep telling myself that I wouldn't be truly happy if I wasn't always so busy. Maybe that's true, but at the same time there has to be some kind of focus. 
There has to be some time to just relax and look at all the beautiful, different, even humorous things going on around us. 
I was walking across the quad and the words of my advisor rang in my ears: "You've learned many things this year; most of them you can't attach to a grade point." 
All of a sudden, everything came together and I knew he was right. Some of the most valuable things I've learned this year came from just living and talking with friends. Things like: 
•The 
grade is the by-product of the knowl­edge you obtain. 

•Perspective 
is key. A drawing is not one specific image, but a bunch of lines. 

•Play 
when it's play time. Know when it's crunch time. 

•The 
"freshman fifteen" is inevitable; Mary weighs 4,400 pounds. 

•
Bagels and "Cheers" are staples of life. 

•Develop 
an intense commitment to total satisfaction. 

•Take 
care of the little things or you won't be able to handle the big things. 

•This 
too shall pass. 


These revelations might seem common­place to most people, but this is the first time that they have ever really hit me. I have my friends to thank for that since I learned so much from my time spent with each of them. I guess that's what the philosopher meant. I guess these are the kinds of things I came to college to learn. 
Tuesday's Staff 
News Peter Loftus Graphics Siobhan McCarthy Kristie Rolke 
Ad Design Accent Kerry Clair Paige Smoron Maria Blohm Gerrie Hamilton Jean-Phillipe Thole Michael Krause GregWach 
Sports Production Dave "Mr. Campus" McMahon Lisa Bourdon Wendy Cunningham Scoreboard 
Rolando de Aguiar Photographers 
Lab Tech
Kevin Weise Sean Faman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Treaty sisners consider mining ban 
Ski deaths occur at Blackcomb 
•WHISTLER, British Columbia -A cannon used to knock loose snow and prevent major avalanches at a ski resort exploded, killing an operator of the device, police say. The cause of the accident Sunday was not immediately known. Killed was Sean Walsh, 38, assistant director of the ski patrol at the Whistler-Blackcomb ski area and a member of the group for 14 years, officials said. Another patrol member operating the cannon was treated for minor injuries, and a third escaped in injury, officials said. Their names were not released. The cannon uses compressed nitrogen to fire explosive charges at slopes that pose avalanche hazards. The charges are supposed to trigger controlled slides. The device has been used for about 20 years without incident at Whistler-Blackcomb, said Bob DuFour, spokesman for resort owner Whistler Mountain Ski Corp. 
OF INTEREST 
•Transfer 
Orientation Staff will hold a manda­tory meeting in the basement of Breen-Phillips tonight at 6 p.m. If you are unable to attend, call Matt at 272­0552 or Julie at 283-1291. 

•1991 
Yearbooks can still be picked up this week at the LaFortune Information Desk, Monday ­


MARKET UPDATE 


NATIONAL 

Solomon case declared mistrial 
•WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.-The trial of a teacher accused of killing her lover's wife ended with a deadlocked jury, and her lawyer asked for dismissal of the murder charge. Prosecutors say they'll seek a second trial. The jury was dismissed Saturday after 11 days of deliberations. Eight voted for the conviction of Carolyn Warmus and four favored acquittal. Warmus, 27, is accused of murder and illegal weapon possession in the 1989 shooting death of Betty Jeanne Solomon. The defense contended Warmus was framed by private investigator Vincent Parco, who the defense claimed was paid $20,000 by Paul Solomon to kill his wife. The murder weapon was never found and there was no evidence placing Warmus at the Solomon's home in Newburgh where Mrs. Solomon was killed. Warmus, who did not testify, is free on $250,000 bail. 
Poetr~ readino Bopularity surges 
Thursday, 12-5 p.m. 
• Proyecto Madre, an organization that helps Single Parent families, is looking for any useable items, including furniture, blankets, bed-linen and clothing (children and adult). Anyone who is interested in do­nating items should contact Sarah Habert at 234-2708. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: George Washington took office in New York as the first president of the United States. 

• 
In 1803: The United States purchased the Louisiana Territory from France. 

• 
In 1945: As Russian troops approached his bunker in Berlin, Adolf Hitler committed suicide along with his wife of one day, Eva Braun. 

• 
In 1975: The South Vietnamese capital of Saigon fell to Communist forces as President Duong Van Minh announced an unconditional surrender to North Vietnam. 

• 
One year ago: Hostage Frank Reed was released by his captives in Lebanon; he was the second American to be released in eight days. 


Tuesday, April30, 1991 The Observer page 3 
• 

The Observer/Elizabeth Peterson
The golden dome 

A recent suggestion to install a revolving stature of Mary atop the traditional golden dome has provoked much discussion recently in the Viewpoint Pages of The Observer. 


~~~~~-~-~-~~~~~~~~~~~--~~=======-~~~~­
Jacques Maritain Center and the Student Union Board 
Present: 




A Lecture 

ILLIBERAL 
EDUCATION 
ThePolitics 
of Race and Sex on Campus 


ffiij 

DINESH D'SOUZA 
'"1111~ Is a bold nnrl l'OJ'trovcrslal work hv 11r1e ofll1e tn1e karkssly lconocla~l h' writers around. n.s nppost·d to tile fak1· fl k.a rnshlonablr il'(lflOclasts who nbOIIII· I.'~ 
-Tom wolfo. a11thor of The /lnnfi:·· n{illr' l'rmlff<'S 
U.R.I fraternity suspended after pledge initiation party mishap 
SOUTH KINGSTOWN, R.I. (AP) -The Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity chapter at the Uni­versity of Rhode Island was suspended indefinitely Monday for allegedly letting an under­age student drink at an initia­tion party until he became un­conscious. 
"We have suspended all of their chapter activities pending a review of underage consump­tion of alcohol by a minor in the chapter house and drinking in excess," said Thomas Dougan, vice president ofstudent life. 
Police later found two mem­bers of the Indianapolis-based fraternity carrying the uncon­scious student on campus, the university said in a statement. The student was taken by am­bulance to South County Hospi­tal where he was treated and released. 
Dougan would not identify the 20-year-old, but said the student was a sophomore from New York state. Dougan said he did not know the town. 
The chapter already was on probation through December for a similar incident this past fall, Dougan said. 
In October, a woman student said she was raped during a drunken party at the TKE house. A URI freshman was ar­rested, but charges were dropped after the woman said she could not remember details. 
A state grand jury has been investigating the incident. 
Because of the previous pro­bation, the TKE chapter faced possible banishment from cam­pus, he said. The seven­member Judicial Board would meet this week, probably Wednesday or Thursday, to decide what action to take, he said. 
In the meantime, "they can't do anything but live there," Dougan said. 
Raymond Damaso, fraternity vice president, said the chapter had not been told it was being disciplined. 
"As of now, you know more than we do," he said. 
Damaso would not comment further on the allegations, other than to say some of the accounts were not accurate. But he did not detail what was inaccurate. 
"We're waiting to see what Tom Dougan and the university is going to do," he said. 
Gary Epperson, vice president of the TKE International office 
by Dinesh D'Souza 
In this firsthand report from today's deeply 
troubled American campus. Dinesh D'Souza argues that lllliVersHy policies designed to foster enllghterwd harmony are in fact promoting Ignorance. intolerance and racism. In their attempt to thrust the university into the vanguard of social reform. minority activists have helped to crPate not a truly diverse multicultural community. but balkanizect. race-conscious tribal enclaves with no common moral ground or shared commitment to the goals of liberal learning. IllilJeral Education must be read by anyone concPrncd with the future of american higher cduca1ton. 
"The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus" 
TtH·sday, AI-Jril 30 
7:30pnt. Washington Hall 
in Indianapolis, said the inter­national fraternity was investi­gating along with the university. 
"All the facts just aren't in. We just really don't know" what the truth Is, Epperson said. 
"If the allegations that are made are true, then I think the international fraternity in con­cert with the university proba­bly will take extreme action," Epperson said. TKE is "extremely concerned" about the allegations in light of the October incident, he said. 
The chapter has 110 mem­bers. It held an initiation cere­mony for new members Thurs­day night. 
"After the Initiation ceremony Thursday at the chapter house, several of the new members consumed alcoholic beverages," Dougan said. There was beer and there might have been liquor, he said. 
At about 7:15 a.m. Friday, police found the TKE members carrying the unconscious stu­dent outside the Ellery dormi­tory, where he lived. The stu­dent wore only sweat pants and sneakers and had "TKE" writ­ten on his face and chest, Dougan said. 
Security Beat 

A resident ol Pasquerilla Eas that her bookbag and its contents en from her unlocked room. 
p.m. Notre Dame Security 
"""'~nt1""'" a female NO student who had her ankle playing basketball to health center. 
A resident of Lyons Hall reported bookbag was taken after she had the South Dining Hall while she 
p.m. A resident of Cavanaugh that his license plate was vehicle about two weeks ago. Security and the Notre Dame IDAoartmAnt assisted a resident of 
had injured hie right ankle basketball on the Stepan Courts. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 27 
12:03 a.m. Noire Dame Security escorted 
non-student off ol the campus alter he found intoxicated in Grace Hall. 
12:39 a.m. A resident of St. Edward's Hall reported that his basketball was stolen I in the evening alter his roo1mmatel 
taken it to play basketball at Stepan Courts. 
SUNOAY,;APRIL 28 

--~-----­
Tuesday, April30, 1991 

Soviet commandos storm hijacked jet; capture 3 men 
MOSCOW (AP) -KGB and police commandos stormed a hijacked Soviet jetliner at a Moscow airport Monday and captured three men, the official Tass news agency reported. 
The three hijackers boarded the plane in the Siberian city of Barnaul and threatened to blow it up if it did not fly to New York, the report said. 
The suspects handed a cabin attendant a message saying the airliner "is in the hands of white nationalists," and that "high-yield explosives are on board," Tass said, quoting KGB officials. 
"White" nationalism in the Soviet Union connotes the anti­Communists who fought the Red Army during the civil war in the 1920s. 
The Tupolev-154 does not have enough range to fly from Barnaul, in the Altai Mountains of Russia, to New York, so the hijackers agreed to stop in Moscow; Hamburg, Germany; and Reykjavik, Iceland, Tass said. 
After Barnaul officials said that security checks had been thorough enough to assure there were no explosives or weapons aboard the plane, the commandos in Moscow decided to act, Tass said. They quickly took control of the plane and found no weapons or explosives on board, it said. 

I. U. student fights order for photos of Little 500 riots 
page 4 The Observer 



Quake 
continued from page 1 
Jorgenson in Menlo Park, Calif., said the aftershock registered 
6.2 on the Richter Scale. 
Soviet Interior Ministry troops already in the region to quell ethnic unrest were ordered to 

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
The context of respect, Warner said, is very important in this matter. "The key is to make sure that every student has the same opportunities to develop their faith," added Warner. 
Smith called the task force "a catalyst to future action, both in the short run and in the long run." He said that it would be premature to define the task force and its specific works. 
Smith said that one of the things the University is plan­ning to do is to "look at the successes of other campuses" which had to deal with the issue of cultural diversity. 
Student Body President Joseph Blanco called the letter a good first step in improving communication between the administration and the student body. "Once the task force comes out with a policy, it will be something everyone can work with." 


GCAC 
continued from page 1 
of public housing, said 
Meissner.  Poverty and injus­ 
tice  are  our  enemies,  she  
added.  

"National security involves 

TRRNSFERS! TRRNSFERS! TRRNSFERS! TRRNSFERS! TRRNSFERS! TRRNSFERS! TRRNSFERS! 

the disaster area to aid in rescue efforts. The initial quake struck at 
12:13 p.m. (5:13 a.m. EDT) in north-central Georgia among the sparsely populated villages and towns in the Caucasus Mountains. It measured 7.1 on the Richter scale, according to the Soviet Union's Central Seismic Station. 
Blanco said that, while some "small amounts of progress have been made," enough progress has not been made. He hopes that the task force will help solve that problem. 
Student Body Vice President David Florenzo said that the fact that the co-chairmen of the task force come from the Office of the President "shows the University's priority to cultural diversity." 
Gina Mahony, chairwoman of the student government com­mittee that produced the report "The Challenge of Diversity," said that it was unfortunate that the letter didn't come out months ago. "People haven't given him enough credit for what steps the University has been taking, which are not the most visible ones," she said. 
Mahony said the letter showed that Malloy "is a committed person and has committed people around him," and that he has a firm grasp of the situation. In particular, she applauded Malloy's addressing the issue of Ethnic American student-athletes receiving more 
more than the power to wage war," Meissner said. "We must build security by building up the people." 
Speaker Angela Gugliotta shared a story of the everyday life of a mother in the Middle East today. Her story of focused on the hunger, thirst and danger that is still present in 
The epicenter was near Dzhava, a town of 11,000 peo­ple about 60 miles northwest of the Georgian capital of Tbilisi. 
The independent lnterfax news agency said a kinder­garten, a high school, a hospital and a printing house were among buildings destroyed there, in addition to 30 homes. 
acceptance than other Ethnic American students. "I'm glad that he saw that was a big problem on campus." 
The problem, Mahony said, is that "you can't snap your fin­gers and change things overnight. No institution works that way." At the same time, she said, "I wish he could have acted a little faster." 
Fred Tombar, member of the coalition Students United For Respect (SUFR), said that the letter was a "fairly accurate assessment of the situation" and reaffirmed Malloy's com­mitment to cultural diversity. 
Tombar said he had reserva­tions about the idea of more committees and discussions. "These issues have been dis­cussed and have been through numerous committees, but it's time of action on the part of the University." 
Tombar said he hoped that the recommendations of this task force are not ignored. "He (Malloy) needs to make a per­sonal commitment to seriously address the recommendations," said Tombar. 
the lives of victims of the war. 
The mourners lay flowers at the base of the war memorial "in a symbolic, but absurdly inadequate gesture," said Kramer, "for all the victims of this war, who will never be counted, and who have been wiped from our national con­science." 
EUERYONE INTERESTED IN HELPING WITH TRRNSFER ORIENTATION 
MRNDRTORY MEETING 
TONIGHT 
IN THE B R S EM ENT 0 F BREEN PH IL Ll P S 6:00PM 
IF YOU RRE UNRBLE TO RTTEND OR HRUE QUESTIONS, CRLL MRTT RT 272-'0552 OR JULIE RT H 1 291. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­An Indiana University student who took photographs of a dis­turbance that followed the Little 500 bicycle race filed a motion Monday to quash a subpoena ordering him to turn over the photographs to police. 
Monroe County Prosecutor Robert Miller then filed a mo­tion for a protective order ask­ing a judge to order the stu­dent, Richard Schultz, not to harm the photographs during litigation. 
Schultz's photographs were subpoenaed April 24 as part of a police investigation of the in­cidents following the annual bi­cycle race. One of his pho­
perms, facials and eHerclslng, Swick Is ready to make her 21st debut! Happy B-dayl The ulew mates, U and Molph. 
tographs appeared on the front page of the Indiana Daily Student newspaper. 
Police arrested more than 350 people after parties and gatherings got out of hand during the weekend of April 20­
21. During the disturbances, more than 40 police carrying shields and night sticks were sent to Varsity Villas after re­ceiving reports of an over­turned car and hundreds of people out of control. 
Several officers received mi­nor injuries during scuffled with students and from bottles and chunks of concrete thrown at them. 
To anyone who has purchased 
The jericho Sessions 
CD Sampler 

there was an inadvertent omission in the CD insert. We forgot to give a keyboard credit for song number 6. 
[Exit 77 -"Better Off Dead) 
The keyboardist for Exit 77 1s: 

Mike Bell 

Great work Mike. We goofed. Sorry. 
WVFI am640 
r--~------------------------~----------------~-~--~---­
Tuesday, April 30, 1991 1he Observer page 5 
Space shuttle crew conducts experiment 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -The astronauts aboard Dis­covery observed eerie waves of light above the horizon in a "Star Wars" experiment Mon­day, and ground controllers struggle_d to fix data recorders needed for other tests. 
Six experiments were can-celled as a result of the recorder trouble, and the De­fense Department expected to lose more data if the problem is not resolved by the end of the eight-day flight. 
NASA flight directors and Pentagon officials insisted the mission would not be harmed by the loss of what they termed "secondary experiments." Nonetheless, there was disap­pointment and one space policy analyst said it points out the likelihood of trouble on the seven previous military shuttle flights, all secret. 
The seven astronauts tried 
four times Sunday night to ac­
tivate the two recorders before
AP Photo 

The Space Shuttle Discovery lifts off from the Kennedy space Center in Florida Sunday. Astronauts planned turning their attention to in­
to conduct tests on Star Wars technology, but recorder trouble has caused several tests to be cancelled. struments unaffected by the 

failure. Engineers on the ground continued to work on the problem. 
A fifth repair attempt was made Monday afternoon follow­ing a series of atmospheric ob­servations. Astronaut Charles Lacy Veach said when he moved a switch, the light for one of the recorders flickered on for a fraction of a second then went back out. 
Three of five scientific in­struments that constitute one of Discovery's primary payloads ­valued altogether at $160 million -are hampered by the recorder problem. The instrument considered most important by the military has its own recorders, which suc­cessfully collected data Monday on atmospheric light, or aurora. 
At one point, the astronauts beamed down black-and-white television images of light rip­pling off the atmosphere as they flew over the Pacific near Australia. 
******************************'*F. t I d Ch.ld b
* * 1rs a y: 1 a use : ~ ~ P.>~is 'most disturbing ill'
* 


~ ~II'
* (j
* 
*
* 
()

* 
U


* 
* *
* * * *
* 
*
* * * 
: 1991 MercuryCapri 
E
* HIT THE ROAD, AND TAKE 
~ 
'' 

$ -() () 
* WITH YOU WHEN YOU BUY ANEW MERCURYI•* :f.:~~;~~"i::.~~~y-:.~:.:~.'oed 
"* Th II d " . b"ll" 
* ~ vegg1e 
Graduates, your diploma can be worth $500 to you when you purchase 
a new Mercury. And your Lincoln-Mercury Dealer can take care of the
* 
financing arrangements through Ford Credit. To get your $500 cash 

* 
from Ford Motor Co. J·ust graduate with a bachelor's or advanced ' . . . * degree from an accredited four-year college or umvers1ty bet~ee~ 

October 1, 1989 and December 31, 1991. and then take retail delivery* of a new Mercury from Dealer stock by December 31, 1991. Select

* 
a Mercury Capri, or a Mercury Tracer, Topaz, Cougar, Sable or Grand Marquis. You can even use the $500 toward your down payment. 

* 
So choose the Mercury that fits your lifestyle and hit the road­

* 
with $500 cash!


* 
.l.l. To qualify for Ford Credit pre-approved credit, qualifiedybuyers1must havbe verHif_iable employ-
I\ ment beginning within 120 days of vehicle purchase. our sa ary must e su 1c1ent to cover 
c\)q..,c.olL£c(c:
f fl" ~ "{, ~ ~ ~

-.,\yj'"'
'-.p, ~.f c..,.~sc r10-o0 

*WASHINGTON (AP) -Barbara *Bush said Monday that child .u. abuse is the nation's most ~ disturbing social problem. 
* "It shouldn't hurt to be a 
.u.child," the first lady said Mon­~day at a White House reception *marking April as Child Abuse *Prevention Month. 
Health and Human Services *Socrotary Louia SuHi"wll.n ia .li.launching an effort to draw ~ more attention to the problem. '*His department says 1,200 to ~ 5,000 American children die 7'\ each year from abuse. 
'* Advocates for children said *they welcome the attention, but ~ more federal aid is needed as 7'\ well. 
* Anne Cohn, of the Chicago­~based National Committee for 7\ the Prevention of Child Abuse, 
*said, "There's a tremendous *need for more money." 
* 
Dr. Richard Krugman, pro­

* 
fessor of pediatrics and acting dean at the University of Col­orado Medical School who 


*chaired a federal advisory*.ll panel on the problem, said, I\"" "Hundreds of thousands of 
*children are still being beaten 
and sodomized and raped..... It is an emergency." Krugman said he told Sulli­van: 
"This initiative is a little like maple syrup. It's sweet but slow. We need to turn up the heat." 
Mrs. Bush, addressing more than 100 children's advocates in the Eaat R\Jon-., \:.ll.~k~ \:.l;,•}d. abuse "a horror that's been with us for centuries, even in this, the best of all possible countries." 
She said it was "so much more disturbing than any of our other social problems ... because its root causes run so deep." 
Sullivan said that "the federal government alone cannot solve this problem." He is planning to hold meetings across the country to encourage leaders from business, social services, churches and other government agencies to step up their in­volvement in fighting abuse. 
The government spends about $40 million a year on prevent­ing abuse and treating its vic­tims. 
~Colorado governor vetoes 
E~~~~~~A~g:~~~~9 ••~~:.?~~r~..~~~~.. 
*would have nixed negatives health ffisues. 
livinQ expenses as well as car payment. A prior credit history isn't necessary, but if you have spraye on to ma e 
~ iEE\iUiUNCOLN:MfnCiiRYiiWiRdeiOoAvtQuali~"!"!!*!.* :~~-: ~~s~·~~~~.~... said
* * Romer said he was concerned 
the measure would inhibit free 




~ ******* * *** ***** * ****
* * ******#.speech and possibly hamper the 
II::~~··=SI~J!.l~: 
,., oo. W1 
i•• 

e so-ca e 1 was intended to prevent unin­
"*formed challenges to the *wholesomeness of food prod­ucts. It would have allowed food
*producers to sue those who 
~falsely disparage their 7\ products. * 
* 
President Bush's distaste for 

*broccoli would not have been libel under the measure, but it 

* 
would have applied to the scare 


~ that resulted when it was al­leged the chemical Alar,
d 1 k 
aPP es 

"I am aware of the problems that unsubstantiated rumors can cause in relation to food products," Romer said. But, "constitutional protection gives individuals as well as consumer groups and researchers the guaranteed right to raise legit­imate questions about food safety and quality." 
State Rep. Steve Acquafresca, an apple grower and sponsor of the bill, said existing libel and slander laws do not go far enough to address malicious or negligent attacks on food safety. 
In vetoing the bill, Romer an­nounced the creation of a Col­orado Food Safety Task Force, made up of growers, marketers, consumers and educators, to make recommendations on the safety of food products. 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, April30, 1991 
Korean students protest student's death 

dents were arrtf!;ted Monday in AP Photo the protests. At least five stu­Riot police clash with radical students marching from Hanyang University to Yonsei University Monday in dents were reported seriously Seoul to join a mass anti-government rally to protest the killing of Kang Kyung-dae, a student who was injured, including the woman beaten to death by police during a demonstration Friday. More than 20,000 students attended the rally. who set herself afire in the southern city of Kwangju. crowd. "My son Kyung-dae is two hours, the tear gas was Traffic came to a halt in the 
Protesters demanded Rob fire now the son of 40 million peo­sometimes so thick one could western sector of the city of 10 the Cabinet, jail the outgoing ple." not see more than four or five million people. interior minister, make a full About 30,000 demonstrators feet. investigation of the student's with a large portrait of Kang "Overthrow the murderous In the southern city of death and apologize to the peo­later tried to march out of regime of Rob Tae-woo!" the Kwangju, a student shouting ple. Yonsei University after an protesters shouted. "Overthrow Rob Tae-woo!" 
"Who killed the boy?" dissi­evening rally, but riot police "Murderers!" they yelled, jab­poured paint thinner over her­dent Hang Sang-yul told fired a barrage of tear gas to bing their fists in the air. self and set herself on fire dur­protesters at Yonsai University. stop them. Winds carried the gas ing a rally by 1,000 students at "Was it the police? No, the real Hundreds of tear gas tracers throughout nearby residential Chosun University, news reports culprit was Rob Tae-woo." filled the air of western Seoul, and shopping areas, sending ci­said. She was rushed to a 
"My son is not dead!" Kang's looking like fireworks in the tizens scurrying for cover and hospital, and doctors said she mother told the cheering night sky. In a barrage lasting hiding their eyes and faces. was in serious condition. 
Classes 
must first he approved by the state Legislature, would raise tuition to $1,950 a year. 
At the height of the protests, classes at a dozen of the 21 CUNY campuses were disrupted by protesters and takeovers. Twelve students were arrested at Lehman College in the Bronx over the weekend when police reclaimed the bulldings. 
The CUNY system has 200,000 students. 
Trial begins for driver accused of not restraining child 
MIAMI (AP) -Jury selection began Monday in the trial of a man charged with vehicular homicide in his 3-year-old daughter's death because she wasn't in a seat restraint. 
A defense lawyer said 30­year-old Ramiro de Jesus Ro­driguez was singled out for prosecution to teach other par­ents a lesson. A prosecutor said Rodriguez' driving was to blame for the fatal accident. 

Both sides said they believe the trial is the frrst in the United States for a parent held legally responsible for failing to restrain a child killed in an auto accident. 
Attorneys screened more than half of 40 prospective jurors in the courtroom of Circuit Judge Sidney Shapiro. Almost all said they were familiar with the case. Selection of the six-mem­ber jury was set to resume Wednesday and the trial was expected to last a week. 
Rodriguez said he is still grieving for his daughter Veronica, who flew out of her mother's arms when Rodriguez made a left turn and his car collided with a van Aug. 3 as they returned to their Hialeah home from a store. 
"What will they accomplish if they send me to prison? It won't bring my daughter back and it 
California could be the wild card 
•

1n 1992 presidential elections 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Voters in Iowa and New Hampshire will wield familiar early influ­ence in selecting a Democratic presidential nominee, but as the 1992 election calendar takes shape, California is an uncer­tain wild card that could dra­matically reshape the process. 
The pre-convention calendar means little to the Republicans. President Bush appears unop­posed for the GOP nomination. 
California will provide about 10 percent of the delegate seats at the 1992 Democratic Na­tional Convention. Officials are considering moving its presi­dential primary from June to March 3 -from near the end of the selection process to the beginning. 
Several other states already have decided to hold March 3 primaries, taking advantage of a party rule change pushed by Chairman Ronald Brown. 
"The Democratic National Committee would love to see California move its primary up ... so we could get a nominee early and set our sights on the Republicans," said Alice Travis, a longtime party official from California who is leading the DNC's 1992 delegate selection office. 
The party's deadline for 

presidential primary and cau­cus plans is this Wednesday ­but California and 19 other states are getting extensions. 
Regardless of California's de­cision, expected in mid-June, Democratic party analysts be­lieve Iowa and New Hampshire will retain considerable promi­nence. The campaign is getting a late start, partly because of Washington's preoccupation with the Persian Gulf crisis, and partly because of Bush's impos­ing popularity. 
The Democrats' first formal candidate, former Sen. Paul Tsongas, enters the race Tues­day with an announcement in his home state of Massachusetts before heading -where else? -to New Hampshire and Iowa. 
Iowa retains its traditional role of opening the selection process, with caucuses on Feb. 
17. New Hampshire follows a week later with the first pri­mary election. 
Colorado, Minnesota, Wash­ington and Maryland are likely to hold March 3 primaries, a week after New Hampshire. If California joined this group, these primaries and a dozen or more Southern-dominated Su­per Tuesday contests on March 10 would mean roughly two­thirds of the delegates to the convention would be chosen in the frrst month of primaries and caucuses. 
"Because of the late start, there will be fewer straw polls and less time for voter and me­dia attention on candidates so Iowa is really going to be the first big event," said Democratic consultant Tom Donilon. "A week later, New Hampshire will be a time for winnowing the field before Super Tuesday." 
The DNC's goal is to eliminate some of the divisive pre­convention fights that often seem to injure the Democratic nominee. 
A year ago, California ap­peared a sure bet to move its primary to March, but iegisia­tion died in the Legislature. The measure has been reintroduced, and party activists in California also are considering a split caucus­primary system in which 100 to 150 of its nearly 400 delegates are selected in March and the rest at a June primary . 
"It's 100 percent dependent on a John Sununu-Gov. Wilson conversation," said Paul Tully, the Democratic Party political director. "As soon as they de­cide when the primary is going to be, that's when the primary is going to be." 
will destroy the rest of my family," Rodriguez said. 
The vehicular homicide charge carries a maximum penalty of five years in prison, but prosecutors said they will seek probation. 
Florida law requires motorists to use seat belts or a secure safety seat for children under age 6. 
With impetus from the case, state legislators approved a bill that would raise the penalty for failing to use a child-restraint seat for children 5 and under from $37 to $150 starting in October. The measure bas not yet gone before the governor. 
Defense attorney Reemberto Diaz questioned why prosecu­tors are pursuing the case Ro­driguez, an immigrant from Nicaragua. 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 

C.ft(/I{/V111/V:JJ $PII(JJOU$ 
*1, 2, and.3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 6.. 
1671 Riverside Drive 
B 
_':_l3-2212 

BRING your cartons to us. 
~<{C.·

~f\~{j"" 
-uPs

c.:~'\:l­~J.~  ,.,.,~ ~b'1 "'  *$1 00 FREE insurance  
-9-6 Mon-Sat  
-no long lines  
conuenient location  -Pick-up at Dorm  
after 5:30  
Major credit cards accepted  

UN lUERS ITY CENTER directly behind Jeremiah Sweeney's & adjacent to Macri's Deli 
Tuesday, April30, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Allied forces tell Kurdish guerillas to stop extortion 
ZAKIIO, Iraq (AP) -Allied forces have demanded that Iraqi Kurdish guerrillas stop extorting money from Kurdish refugees and let them return home, senior U.S. officers said Monday. 
The first Kurdish family ar­rived Monday in the U.S.-built camp outside Zakho, joining 576 Kurdish men already there. 
U.S. commanders said they ex­pect refugees to start arriving In large numbers this week. 

Since allied forces entered northern Iraq, some of the Kurdish guerrillas, known as pesh merga, have blocked the refugees' return out of fear for their safety. Others have used the opportunity to charge tolls, stopping the refugees at check­poinl'l and demanding payment for passing through. 
Col. Jim Jones, the highest­ranking U.S. Marine Corps offi­cer in northern Iraq, said U.S. patrols have been sent to some of the more notorious check­points "to tell them to knock that stuff ofT." 
"It's immoral and it's got to stop," said Jones. "They're straight-out bandits." 
Meanwhile, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said in Washington Monday the U.S.-led effort to aid Kurdish refugees has Mturned the corner in terms of the food situation" after Msaving the lives of perhaps thousands of people." 
Cheney applauded the U.N. takeover of the camps in north­ern Iraq now occupied by U.S. troops -"And just as soon as possible, as soon as we are confident that we can withdraw our forces from there, it is our urgent desire to do so." 
In southern Iraq, meanwhile, the U.S. Army airlifted more refugees to Saudi Arabia, in an operation that is a prelude to the U.S. troops' own departure. The airlift is expected to take about a week. 
In wide-ranging interviews on the huge allied effort in the north to aid the Kurds, senior American commanders said they hope to clear the Turkish border of primitive refugee camps by June 1. By then, wa­ter will be in short supply in the hills. 
About 800,000 Kurds arrived at the Turkish border this month, fleeing Saddam Hus­sein's postwar crackdown on their rebellion. Allied military officials are building camps for them in northern Iraq. 
Military officials said some Kurdish guerrillas had been re­fusing to allow refugees to go to the camp at Zakho because they were not convinced it was safe from Iraqi attack. 
U.S., French, Dutch and Bri­tish officials met Monday with about a dozen Iraqi Kurdish rebel leaders to tell them to stop preventing the refugees from returning home. 
Later, the most senior Kurdish leader, who identified himself as Gen. Ali, was taken to one checkpoint by a U.S. helicopter. 

Campus Ministry and You 


0MPU5 MINISTRY 

Endings are always difficult, whether they lead to the known or to the unknown. Saying good-bye, whether just for a summer or forever or for something in between, takes an amount of energy that we would rather spend living out our friendships and romances. 
If we didn't go through changes we wouldn't stay alive, yet we resist change because of the emotional havoc it brings to our lives. Like Peter at the glorious moment of transfiguration, we want to eternalize the good times and rush through (if not avoid) the sad. 
Yet, we can't. The beat goes on. Drums keep sounding rhythm, and we dance. We get swept away by emotions. Tears are shed. We look away. We're falsely hardy or gruff. "Well, goodbye. See you again. Have a great summer, great year, great life. Nice knowing you. Take care." 
For Seniors, the endings dramatically began a year ago: last room picks. The laslnesses continued into the new year: last home game; last SYR; last review and regatta; on and on. For the rest, only temporary lasts. Thus, less pain or nostalgia. 
But for all of us, as we face our endings we can do so with the faith and confidence they lead to beginnings, as well. Each ending can be seen to bear an exit sign, but it can also be seen to bear a sign that proclaims: Entrance. "C'mon in to a new place, where even more changes will take place that will lead you to still newer places where still more changes will take place, ..." The stronger our faith that life has meaning that goes well beyond the literal, the stronger we are as we face endings, even the ultimate ending of life as we know it. 
As we say goodbye at this year's end, we do so in confidence that the spirit of all we have shared -in a year or in four -will be always with us. And when, in times to come, we find ourselves feeling the grief of some new departing, we will remember these days and what they led to, and know that endings need not be sad. Bittersweet, always. But not sad. 
Good-bye. 


Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Church Saturday, May 4 
5:00 p.m. Fr. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. Sunday, May 5 
10:00 a.m. Fr. Michael Buckley, S.J. 
11:45 a.m. Fr. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Clothin2 & Usable Item Drive 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society 

CJothings,  Furniture,  
Appliances,  &  Other  
Usable  Items.  
Wlht ~·He:  .A.L..L..  Residence  HaJls  
WlhteiDl:  Monday, May 6  
- Tuesday, May 14 Monday, May 20  
(?Jv1PU5 

MINI5TRY Campus Minist~y. 239·5242 
& 

The St. Vincent De Paul Society, 234·6000 
Give Dad a Father•s Day gift he•n really appreciate! THIS TIME INSTEAD OF A NECKTIE••• South Bend Uribune Irish SJ!OIIS ReJ!OIIrn Here's an exciting new publication devoted exclusively to Notre Dame sports guaranteed to beat the pants off neckties as a gift. .. a gift that will be appreciated all year long. Written and edited by America's most experienced team of Fighting Irish reporters, the South Bend Tribune Irish Sports Report will provide Dad, you or any Irish fan with timely, , insightful, and comprehensive inside information. ~ Irish Sports Report is published weekly during \ the football season and monthly during the ~~remainder of the year -a total of 22 issues. A one-year subscription is only $28. Or, get an ,', even better rate with a multi-year subscription­\ -just $50 for 2 years, or $72 for 3 years* \ Order now and we'll send you 2 free bonus issues--24 issues for only $28.* To order, complete and mail the subscription order form or call the number below. Your subscription will begin upon receipt of payment with the next current issue. \ \ • Subscription rates reflect standard 2nd class postal service. To \ receive faster delivery, we recommend the 1st class delivery option: \\ For an additional $12, we'll maiiiSR to your home 1st class during football season. (Add a total of $22 for 1st class delivery all yeal) \''POO,to ""'· -•• '""""pttoo to~ bol<>W. M .----------------------------------------------------­FOR FASTER SERVICE, CALL 1·800-457-3533 in the South Bend area, call 236-1799, Please call 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (EST) Mail To: SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE IRISH SPORTS REPORT, Subscription Dept. 225 W. Colfax Avenue, South Bend, IN 46626, Phone (219) 236-1799, 1-800-457-3533 SUBSCRIPTION ORDER FORM YESI D I agree ... my dad will appreciate Irish Sports Report much more than the tie I was going to • buy, so I'm signing him up! D (Actually, I'm ordering the subscription for myself.) 2ND CLASS DELIVERY RATES 0 HEY! Send my dad a GIFT CARD in D 1 Yr/22 issues -$28 D 2 Yrs/44 issues -$50 D 3 Yrs/66 issues -$72 my name: 1ST CLASS DELIVERY RATES/FOOTBALL SEASON: D 1 Yr/22 issues-$40 D 2 Yrs/44 issues-$62 D 3 Yrs/66 issues-$84 (please type or print) 1ST CLASS DELIVERY RATES/ALL YEAR LONG: D 1 Yr/22 issues -$50 D 2 Yrs/44 issues -$72 D 3 Yrs/66 issues -$94 Total Amount$ D Payment Enclosed.____ D Visa D Mastercard Credt Card Acct. #_________________.Exp Date._________ Signature_______________________________ Name___________________________________ Address_______________________________ City, State., Zip ______________________________ Phone__________________________________ (Rates valid in U.S. only. Inquire about international rates) SRSR ~----------------------------------------------------J  


• ' -' t ~ ~ : • 
•. ( . ~ .. ... ; .. .. .; ... . .. " 
I • • ~ . ~ . •. " . ;.""• .. -• .. " .. • " • • • • • • 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, April 30, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Busln... Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-Editor •••••••••.••••••••.•...Monica Yant Advartlalng Manager ••..•.Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor••••••••••.••.••..Joe Moody Ad Design Managar •••••••.•Aiissa Murphy Sporta Editor ••••••••••••••.David Dieteman Production Managar •••••••••••.Jay Colucci Accent Edltor................... .John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •••••..••••••••••.••••••. Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••••.••••.•••••••••Dan Shinnick S.lnt Mary'a Edltor............ Emily Willen Controller.•••••••••••••••••••.Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and. Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through leners is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



} 

t~~r-­
.:~~) ~; ' 

Student thought article on Ismail was unfounded 
Dear Editor: 

There is no human right more basic than the right to sustain oneself with food. People face hundreds of different problems on a daily basis, but without food, none of these problems seem to matter. We can do something to help save the world. 
The World Hunger Coalition at Notre Dame organizes the Wednesday Lunch Fasts and also participates in a number of local projects to benefit the poor and hungry. Over the past year our membership has grown, and we hope for more participation from the con­cerned students of this campus in the months to come. 
In 1990 alone, the WHC raised over $13,000 for dona­tion to international projects which work to combat the problems of hunger and its ef­fects. From this semester's fact, we estimate about $7,000 will be sent to the organizations which we have chosen to sponsor. We and the families whom we are helping are eter­nally grateful for the sacrifices of the Wednesday lunch fasters. 
To maximize the effect of the funds from the fast, the WIIC chooses small, specific grass roots development projects in the third world. This way, the funds go directly to the project sites and are not spent on ad­ministrative costs without ever reaching those who really need help. We choose projects which not only provide immediate re­and his wife Maricella Ramirez lief for hunger but also educate visited and educated us about their recipients on techniques of the complicated reality of farming and sustaining income hunger, but left us sparked for their families. In this way, with the desire to overcome we feel we are becoming a part obstacles in order to make a of both the short and long term change. solutions to the tragic problem On Wednesday afternoons the of hunger in the world. coalition invites all members of 
This year, we have chosen to the fast together in the C.S.C. continue aiding projects in and reflect on the problems and Central Africa, Bangladesh and causes of and possible solutions Argentina to which we have do­to world hunger. This time nated in the past because of serves as a crucial part of the their proven commitment to the fasting process, making us local people. We have informa­better able to understand why tion on all of the projects and we are fasting and what good ask that anyone who is inter­we can actually do. ested in finding out more, The World Hunger Coalition whether a participant in the thanks everyone who has Wednesday fasts or not, call the helped our cause this year and Center for Social Concerns and has made it their cause, too. let us know. For those who participate in 
On a local level, the WHC or­Wednesday lunch fasts, we ganizes the Thanksgiving food thank you for your weekly sac­drive and delivers baskets per­rifice. We hope this letter helps sonally to families whose names you realize the incredible bene­we have received from local fits the world receives from churches and service or­your donation. Although they ganizations. This year, we also may not seem like much, the prepared Easter baskets. We truth is that Wednesday fasts are planning to continue both of are a source of invaluable as­these traditions next year. sistance to people all over the 
Friday, April 17, was a day of world who have nobody to learning for may members of whom they can turn. Thank the coalition. About ten people you for helping us provide a from the Notre Dame commu­light of hope for them. Just nity gathered at a camp in think what we all can do to­Michigan to further discuss the gether in the years to come. future of our organization. In Please continue to help us. 24 hours, we made important steps towards knowing our­World Hunger Coalition selves and our duties to those in April 26, 1991 the world who really need our help. Professor Martin Murphy 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY. 
Wtu,THATS NOT 
OH... RIGHT.

1AJHY I'M GOING! ON& OF 
I /313TT&R
rMGOINGTO 

WHO/Vf/5 
'Of all our sufferings,
Al?l?A fflAJ

Pf.RFORM FOR. YOI.JR80Y­
FeATHERS. 
fOO,CWaJT8 

FR.J&Nl?. 
those hurt the most that 
I
GU'/'3 IN COOL­
I
UNIFORMS.' 

we ourselves inflict.' Sophocles 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Dear Editor: 
The article, "Raghib 'Rocket' Ismail didn't back up accusa­tion," was the most ridiculous and unfounded article I have read in a long time. Am I wrong or did the writer, Ken Tysiac compare Rocket with Tim Worley? I believe the sen­tence "if that was the case, Mendes would have been justi­fied in comparing Ismail to Worley," implies this. 
Therefore, he thinks that Hocket is "lazy and unproduc­tive," and that "Rocket might have suffered from an attention deficit." But I have to question the basis of these claims. How "lazy and unproductive" has Hocket been in the last three years at ND? Was running back countless punts and kick-offs for touchdowns "unproductive?" Were the chants of "Hocket" for a "lazy" person? Is the owner of the Argonauts so stupid he would pay $26 million for a "lazy and unproductive" man? I hope not. Otherwise, Hocket has fooled us all, and shouldn't we feel like idiots? As to the attention deficit I don't know Raghib Ismail and cannot comment. 
Another thing I question is the relevance the information in the article has to the title. I found the comments about the money 
DOONESBURV 
HI, KID! I IA/A5 IN 7Ht 7HJ/Iti<S. N&JGHBORHOOO ANl? 5J{)'tCOK 7HJlXiHT I'l? f)!?OP OFF u;flir:rllJ5T 
I YOUR U.5.0. ARRJVW­~~~ 5CRIPT.' MY TVRJ<et 
~ CO(TUMC! 

and the city of Toronto quite irrelevant to the point of the article. Or is it just me? The writer's comments about Ismail's new found happiness in money and the lack of cultural diversity in Toronto have little to do with accusation of racism. 
I'm sure the writer along with every other college student in this nation would turn down millions of dollars and financial security for his family just to play for. the NFL. And a final question I would like to pose to the writer is "how much less culturally diverse is Toronto than any other U.S. city?" 
Maybe I read this article wrong but to me it seems like the writer is either: 1) mad that Ismail left a year early, 2)mad that he chose the CFL over the "good old" NFL, 3) trying to get a rise out of students, or 4) jealous of Ismail's success. · It Is funny how everyone chanted "Rocket' a semester ago and now "Rocket" is almost a vulgarity. If you, Ken Tysiac, are a sports writer why don't you stick to that and leave the moral lessons out, thus far you haven't done a very good job. 
Llka Dioguardi Holy Cross Hall April 28, 1991 
6<XJ()LJ.JO< G&7T/fll3 I 5T/U THAT 7HR[)()Gf{ CAN7&­'3/J.UOI CU570W5-' U&V& I WAS 1 ASI<£!).' TOIJT HOUYP./CXJ!? IAJ.I1.NT'3 70 GO.'
j 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Viewpoint
page 10 Tuesday, April30, 1991 
Students are encouraged to attend D'Souza lecture 
Dinesh D'Souza is speaking at Notre Dame this Tuesday night. He is one of the most outspoken and eloquent critics of the "political correctness" trend currently so popular with American colleges and Universities. He is strongly op­posed to what he calls "the politics of race and sex" being practiced on many campuses, even Notre Dame (e.g. the re­cent controversy over SUFR). For instance, D'Souza is critical of affrrmative action, attacks on traditional education, self­segregation of minorities, and the growth of programs like Black Studies and Women's Studies. He believes that these and other developments have been counterproductive in a at least two ways; they damage the academic quality of the schools that practice them, and they promote campus racism. 
When colleg~ and universi­ties practice the politics of race and sex, they damage their academic quality in two pri­mary ways. First, they divert resources from traditional courses into nontraditional ar­eas, such as Black Studies and Women's Studies. These areas, often known as "oppression studies," are generally destruc­tive rather than constructive. Oppression studies courses often focus on destroying stu­dent's faith in their imperialistic and oppressive society, but do not build up anything in place that faith. These courses are aimed more at raising 

Rick Acker 
In My Opinion 
awareness of supposed social injustice than at imparting ac­tual knowledge or teaching students to think. 
Second, traditional courses in Shakespeare, Western history, logic, and so on are attacked for promoting a fundamentally oppressive and ethnocentric so­ciety. Those who defend tradi­tional education or attack op­pression studies are labelled "white racists" and/or "Western ethnocentrists" (neither label fits D'Souza, who is neither white nor Western). The result of these developments is obvious: Schools that practice the politics of race and sex will produce graduates who cannot think, are culturally illiterate, and are convinced that Western civilization is based on racism and sexism. 
Even more disturbing than the academic damage which the politics of race and sex do is the campus racism which they promote. According to D'Souza, the root causes of racial hate add tension at colleges and universities are, ironically, the policies adopted by school administrations to bring racial harmony and justice. 
The first cause of racial problems is the official and unofficial affirmative action policies practice by most American colleges and universi­ties. These bring in black and because they are beset by nega­Hispanic students with lower tive stereotypes, academic test scores and grades than problems and actual or per­their white and Asian peers. ceived racism, black and Unfortunately, the affirmative Hispanic students band together action students often have aca-to seek refuge from a hostile demic difficulties, primarily be-world and political power to cause of their disadvantaged address their grievances. educational background. These students form racially 

White and Asian students, exclusive fraternities, pre-pro­argues D'Souza, begin to • fessional organizations, theme stereotype blacks and Hispanics houses and cafeteria tables. as less academically competent. College and university officials, Also, whites and Asians resent eager to promote "cultural di­the affirmative action students versity" and avoid charges of because they were given special racial insensitivity, often sane­preference in admissions at the tion and support these efforts expense of a white or Asian by minorities at self-segrega­friend. Black and Hispanic tion. Often at the request of students, on the other hand, these groups, school adminis­feel rejected by other students trators also usually create and and inferior because of their enforce racial harassment poli­group's poor academic cies aimed at quelching attacks performance Not surprisingly, of affirmative action and the blacks and Hispanics attribute students it admits. their problems to racism. Unfortunately, these efforts are 
The second cause of campus counterproductive. Rather than racism that D'Souza identifies create a multicultural and flows directly from the first. racially harmonious campus, 
self-segregation of minorities 

creates what D'Souza calls 
"racial platoons," which are 
mutually hostile and distrustful. 
The result of these trends is 
tragic, but predictable. As 
D'Souza puts, it "It is this 
balkanized environment that 
gives rise to racial jokes and 
racial incidents. These episodes 
are not spontaneous eruptions 
of old-style racism; they 
represent the uncorking of a 
tightly sealed bottle. When legitimate questions about equality and fairness are re­pressed by an atmosphere of accusation, intimidation, and censorship, they tend to fer­ment under the surface and fi­nally erupt in perverse, rebel­lious, and outrageous expres­sion." 
College and university admin­istrations often misdiagnose the causes of campus racial problems. Thinking that old­style racism is to blame, admin­istration respond by increasing affirmative action, yielding to demands by campus black and Hispanic organizations for fur­ther special treatment and self­segregation, and so on. This, of course, is only throwing ga­soline on the frre of racial ten­sion. 
Regardless of whether you agree with Dinesh D'Souza, I urge you to come hear him speak. He presents a powerful and straightforward analysis of some of the most controversial and important problems facing American colleges and 
universities today. ~His indict­ment of the politics of race and sex being practiced on our campuses makes too much sense to be ignored. Not all of his arguments necessarily de­serve to be agreed with, but all deserve to be heard. 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
D'Souza's message should be examined critically 
Dinesh D' Souza will be speaking here at Notre Dame this week. Author of Illiberal Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus, D'Souza is a well known conservative so­cial critic and former editor of the Dartmouth Review and of the now-defunct Prospect magazine (published by the "Concerned Alumni of Prince­ton"). An article adapted from his book appeared last month in The Atlantic Monthly, and, as I understand it, D'Souza will cover some of the same ground in his address this week. 
D'Souza is concerned about what is happening in (or to) American universities: he sees under the debates about cur­ricula and "political correct­ness" certain principles that threaten to erode the traditional values of liberal education. The "assault on Western culture" at Michigan, Columbia and elsewhere includes radical demands: eliminate Western civilization requirements and highlight Third-World, race and gender issues. The "censorship" instituted on cam­puses like SUNY Buffalo and Vassar bodes poorly for "academic freedom." It is ironic that this stifling atmo­sphere has developed at many of the same campuses where 30 years ago students and aca­demics rallied under the "academic freedom" banner in the face of anti-communism. 

These issues are important, but D'Souza is not always help­ful in sorting them out. Although there are surely changes occurring on American campuses some even "dramatic" -it is not obvious just what principles of liberal education are at stake. D'Souza fives examples of the curriculum modifications and anti-harassment rules that have been adopted at schools around the country, but his analysis of the rationale behind the changes is not sufficiently sensitive to how much more moderate the changes are com­pared to the demands. there the "assault on Western cul­ture" is most radical it seems to be least effective. How, for example, could anyone know that there is no such thing as objective knowledge? Such claims remind me of what California philosopher Alan Garfmkel says about relativism: "I know where you're coming form, but, you know, Relativism isn't true-for-me." 
One feels that D'Souza is re­porting half of the news: telling just the side of the story that supports his (polemical) point. One principle that might be at stake in the struggle he describes is academic freedom. 
being denounced and even pun­ished at many schools. But freedom is just one liberal value; another is equality. Per-
Michael Byron 
Guest Columnist 

haps some advocates of "political correctness": are saying we need a little less freedom and a little more equality. 
I think that there is (at least) a grain of truth in this idea, and D'Souza's relentless focus on the radical fails to capture it. Our legal system frequently distinguishes between harm and offense: harm we prohibit, offense we permit. Tradition­ally, we have thought that ac­tions are paradigmatic harms (assault, theft, murder) and words are paradigmatic offenses (insult, rudeness, polemic). There are notable exceptions to this rule: slander is a crime, and so is yelling "fire" in a crowded theater. 
But many people are coming to think that words may be more harmful than previously realized. Why should minorities have to put up with harassment, especially when the attitudes behind such abuse are institutionalized in a culture where minorities are systemati­cally treated as inferiors? Similarly for sexual harass­ment. Our language seems to reflect the inequality implicit in our culture; and while prohibit­ing the harassment may not by itself eliminate the inequality, there's every reason to think that stigmatizing such attitudes will help to reduce the unfair­ness that is characteristic of our society. And what could be more liberal than fostering equality? 
I suspect that D'Souza is a liberal who values freedom over equality, but he might agree with me to a point. He might think that I am carving out some much-needed "middle ground," but that this won't stop the radicals from pushing their agendas. If this is a share the perception that the advo­cates of "political correctness" -to be sure, a diverse bunch often at cross-purposes -have in fact "damaged" liberal society or liberal education, or even that they represent a "threat". These radicals will push their agendas just as rad­ical like D'Souza will. And our society will modify its practices, straining to maintain its deli­cate liberal balance between freedom and equality. 
Michael Byron is a first year graduate student in philosophy. 




Reader has bone to pick about Prof. Rice's style 
Dear Editor: unisex third person singular? 
Hecently, professor Charles E. 
Hice, long a fixture at Notre My modest proposal, offered Dame, described Notre Dame's as a grammatical olive branch drift from its (his/her) original to those tortured by the histor­mission of undergraduate edu­ical injustice toward the neuter cation toward a more sophisti­is to include "it" in the cur­cated research oriented gradu­rently acceptable third person ate style academic program. singular she/he. Hence, the While I have no quarrel with new third person (next year we his main point, namely, that all can do something about person) this specialized graduate singular pronoun becomes training costs middle class "she/he/it." this cumbersome 
undergraduate families plenty, I structure could be expressed have a bone to pick with simply as the contraction professor Hice over his blatant "sheeit." bias when discussing the 
controversy over the unisex A similar sounding linguistic "she/he" third person singular entity has been described in pronoun. certain parts of rural America, where the word is handily used 
Though Dr. Hice does not ap­as a noun, verb, or adjective, prove of the "she/he" formula but never as a pronoun. for non-sexist grammar, he fails Therefore, no confusion would to appreciate the large number arise between the two similar of asexual, inanimate objects in sounding words of different the universe which are denied meaning. their identity by Dr. Hice's 
"neuterphobia." do not such It remains to be seen whether objects as trees, clouds, "it" will remain isolated form its Chevrolets, steamboats, singular brother and sister, or, lasagna, catholic research cen­in a more grammatically ters, recreational latex products enlightened world, will "sheeit" 
and other non-gender items become politically correct. deserve better than the ambiguity of either Dr. Hice's Mark Walsh traditional grammar or the Class of 1969 more modern approach of the Acrll 29. 1991 

Viewpoint
Tuesday, April30, 1991 page 11 
Pro-life activists violate civil law, but obey God 
Editor's note: the following is major. Let me quote from his provided an excellent forum to an open letter to Father Malloy. letter " ... at 9 a.m. Eric and I open dialogue on critical issues are finally near the front of the facing students and Dear Editor: line and I find out that the one parents-there was not much Thank you for sharing your class I really wanted and had accomplished for Arts & Letters. concern with the continued in­been waiting for, 'The Southern When I write my tuition check crease intuition and other costs Literary Tradition,' was closed for 1991-1992, including the for students enrolled at the already...so much for being a nine percent increase, I'll do so university; I'm sure it is not a senior." with frustration thinking of 
pleasant task to convey this in­As an English major, Nathan Nathan in his sleeping bag lin­formation to parents. Without has had difficulty enrolling In ing up for the classes he didn't financial aid, Notre Dame is the courses that interest him get. .. so much for being a Notre expensive education! and he has been disappointed Dame parent. 
It disturbs me when in a letter with class size. Hopefully, the from my son he describes additional faculty mentioned in E.J. Fitzgeraldgetting in line at 1 a.m. at your letter will be in the field of April 18, 1991 
O'Shag with his sleeping bag to English literature. Junior 
enroll for fall courses in his Parent Weekend would have 
Christmas in April organizers say 'thank you' to everyone who made it happen 
Dear Editor: and perseverance made those of repairs without you. More 
We want to thank the thou­homes safer, warmer, drier and importantly, it was just good sands of Notre Dame and Saint cleaner. The Christmas in April fun working with all of you. Mary's students who lit up the volunteers showed we can 
lives of 52 homeowners in the make a difference by giving our Mayor J088ph E. Kernan St. Camimir's/Ford Street time and energy. Christopher J. Murhpy Ill neighborhood by participating Larry D. Hardingin Chrismas in April. Thanks again for your efforts Patricia O'Hara 
on 13. We coundn't have Honorary Chairperson 
Bill Keen Guest Columnist 
Imagine you were walking down the street past a house and happened to see through a large picture window a man with a knife in hand ready to slit the throat of a young child. What would you do? Stand back and let him or her die, or take action to prevent the killing of the child? Your decision is further impeded because of a MNo Trespassing" sign placed in the front lawn. Will you brak the civil law against trespassing in order to rescue the child, or continue to walk past the house pretending nothing ever happened? 
The analogy made here is very similar to what occurs in­side abortion mills every day across the United States. Re­cent pro-life activism by an or­ganization call "Northeast In­diana Hescue," which included the partipation of four Notre Dame students, has created controversy, stirred con­sciences, and sparked debate on the issue and place of direct action in combating abortion. 
On April 5, 1991 over 100 pro-lifers staged a "rescue" whereby they peacefully but physically blockaded the en­trance to the Women's Pavilion, the only abortion mill in South Bend, located just five minutes from the Notre Dame campus. The aim of Northeast Indiana Rescue was to prevent not only the killing babies scheduled to die that day but also the ex­ploitation of women from abor­tion. 
For the past eighteen years, since the Supreme Court deci­sions of Roe vs. Wade and Doe vs. Borton were handed down, conventional, political, and ed­ucational efforts have virtually failed to put an end to the killing of unborn children. Res­cue attempts at abortion facili­ties have proven to be an effec­tive means in directly stopping abortions and saving human lives. Pro-life rescuers, realiz­ing the sancitity of a preborn child's life, believe they are obliged, in conscience to inter­vene at the killing chambers and "violate" trespassing laws in order to revent the murder of the innocent. 
Abortion-rights advocates 
reprimand our wlaw-breaking" efforts and Mcriminal" activity. However, was it not the illegal efforts of the Undreground Railroad which delivered hun­dreds of slaves to freedom in the North? Was it not the illegal efforts of courageous indi­viduals who at the risk of their own lives saved countless num­bers of men, women and chil­dren from the hands of Hitler? Was it not the illegal act of Mrs. Rosa Parks of taking a seat in the "white" section of a bus and refusing to move from it that awakened the American people to the injustices of segregation laws? We applaud the sacrifices of these people and we consider them to be heroes. But will we apply to our own lives the principles that guided them as we face the holocaust of American children? 
Direct action heightens awareness in the community about the evils and dangers of abortion. Yet abortion-rights supporters do not want the public to know the real truth behind the grisly and lucrative business. Abortion advocates divert attention from the sad and horrid fact that with each abortion, at least one little girl or little boy is torn apart limb by limb and sucked from its mother's womb, left to rot in the garbage cans and trash disposals of abortion mills across this country. 

We cannot sanitize the dirty, barbaric crime of child-killing with euphemisms such as "choice." so-called pro-choice rhetoric is full of compassion but the substace of the message is death. Abortion is 100 per­cent fatal for the preborn child and lethal to the heart, mind, and spirit of the child's mother and father. 
What of the voices, what of the cries of the already slaugh­tered millions of legally aborted children? What of the silent pleas and futile last struggles of the preborn child pulling away from the deadly, slicing curette of an abortlosist at this very moment? What of the desperate wails of the grieving mothers and fathers of these lost innocents? 
St. Ambrose once wrote, "Not only for ever idle word but for every idle silence must man render an account." What are we going to say to God at Judgment concerning our apa­thy in acting to protect His lit­tlest ones, the babies in the womb, the "least of our brethren." 
Though rescuers may be breaking man's civil law, they 
-
are obeying a law which is much higer; God's Divine law. God declared "Thou Shall not Kill" long before Roe vs. Wade. In Proverbs (24:11), we are told to "Rescue those unjustly sen­teced to death. Do no stand back and let them die." Fur­thermore, when Peter and the Apsotles appeared before the Sanhedrin after being found guilty of breaking the law of preaching the Gospel of Christ, they replied in defense, "Obedience to God comes before obedience to men" (Acts 5:29). The same applies today. 
Who will we obey? 

Bill Keen is a sophomore English major. 
-... 
LEmRS TO THE EDITOR 
Accent 
page 12 Tuesday, April 30, 1991 

A 
Companion 
to 
Prayer
-
The Notre Dame Folk Choir releases its second recording 
By JEAN HAZARD string bass, and Irish harp mu­by the Folk Choir. This collab­Thomas Merton, a monk of the the finished product. "The Accent Writer sic. The vocal material for the oration over the past few years Abbey of Gethsemani. recording turned out exactly aschoir is arranged for four part led to the recording of "A Com­
we had hoped. So much wentNearly two years after the harmonization, for soprano, panion to Prayer." 
Included in this 78 minute into it, and it is wonderful to berelease of the Notre Dame Folk alto, tenor, and bass singers. 
recording are many of the Folk able to step back and hear our­
Choir's first cassette recording, "A Companion to Prayer" is a "A Companion to Prayer" Choir's favorite selections, in­selves." Kate added that the"Mass on the Feast of Saint unique recording effort, bring­features an anthology of hymns, 
cluding "How Can I Keep From recording was a valuable expe­Patrick,"Ave Maria Press has ing together the Monastic spirituals, contemporary songs, Singing?" "I Am the Vine," rience, both to learn about theannounced the release of the Schola of Gethsemani Abbey chants, and psalm settings. "Now We Remain," and process of making a tape and as
choir's second cassette record­and the members of the Notre Much of the music on the "Canticle of the Sun." A wide additional training for the choir. 
ing, "A Companion to Prayer." Dame Folk Choir. For the past recording is a result of the variety of the music of Gethse­Kate also feels that "Athree years, the Folk Choir has combined efforts of Reverend mani Abbey is also provided Companion to Prayer" bringsThe Notre Dame Folk Choir travelled to Gethsemani Abbey Chrysogonus Waddell, OCSO, with this repertoire: "Light out the spiritual dimension of
is an ensemble of 35 voices and for weekend retreats. On these director of music for Gethse­Serene of Holy Glory," "Jesus, the choir. 
instrumentalists, including un­excursions, the Notre Dame mani Abbey, Steven C. Warner, Good Shepherd," "Come Close, The cassette tapes are nowdergraduate and graduate stu­group was privileged to join the director of the Notre Dame Folk You Hallowed," and the Abbey's available for purchase through
dents, and faculty and profes­monks in choir for their cele­Choir, and Ellen Doerrfeld, celestial setting of the Salve the Campus Ministry Officesional staff members of the brations of the Liturgy of the graduate assistant for the Notre Regina. 
(Badin Hall and Library Offices) University. The choir's style of Hours and the Eucharist. Many Dame Ensemble. The tape also and though the distributor, Avesacred music utilizes a blend of of the pieces regularly used at incorporates excerpts from the Folk Choir member Kate Maria Press. The cost is $10.95 
organ, guitar, flute, violin, the Abbey were adapted for use poetic and reflective works of McLean is very excited about plus tax. 
A Finals Wish List 
Some 'necessary' items for finals week 
As the year winds to a close and the 

exam covering five centuries of history? campus is under so much pressure it 
ESP is the answer to your prayers. feels like the dome is going to pop off, 
•A "weather switch" so you could late night study breaks become more 
make it freezing cold and rainy when it twisted. People become sick of reading, 
is time to study and make it sunny and doing, or even talking about anything 
beautiful when it is time to play. serious. 
•A mountain of chocolate chip cookie As the hours until that 20-page paper 
dough on the quad to play in and eat. is due dwindle and you find yourself on 
•Caffeine shots; a beverage that utilizes caffeine as well as Jaegermeister does alcohol. It will keep you awake all 
Jeanne Blasi 
night. 

•That you could function perfectly on less or no sleep at all and not get circles 
From the Playpen 
under your eyes. 

•Disposable clothes so you do not have page three, people find themselves 
to take time out to do laundry. wishing for things like a 24-hour cold 
•Chocolate more healthy than Lima 
beer delivery service, room service, and Beans. automatic exemptions from finals if your •An alarm clock with no snooze button pure enjoyment? •Papers that are as easy to write as name begins with a"J." that catapults you out of bed, into the •The ability to learn through osmosis letters. 
Although these late night wishes are shower, and dresses you in time for so you can just fall asleep on a book, •That the statue of Mary on the Dome usually unrealistic, they provide an class. wake up, and know its entire contents. rotated so everyone would quit alternative study break if you've run out •"Body-shaving clothes" so that you •Human popcorn and pop vendors in complaining. of candles to light at the Grotto. Who could pull on a piece of clothing and classes yelling "popcorn, peanuts, coke" •To receive a care package full of knows, maybe someone will take pity on when you pull it off, it leaves behind throughout class, just like at a baseball Dominoes pizza, one for every night of you and grant your wishes. smooth-shaven skin. game. the week. 
So, listed below are what some ND •A "stop button" on life so one can just •A soundtrack (background music) to students wish for in those early morning press stop, sleep for five hours, wake up your life like the movies have. For •Perfect knowledge at birth. Just hours: and press "play" so no quality study example, the "Chariot's of Fire" theme think of it, you would never have to go to 
•A 
24-hour campus masseuse to work hours have escaped you. when you jog, Billy Joel's "Pressure" as school or study; you would already out all the tension and stiffness caused •Male/female servants to "tuck you in" you study, and the ~ theme as you know everything. by hours of sitting at a desk or staring at at night Gust like mom used to) and to near the room to take that killer exam. a computer screen. grant any other wishes like writing a 20 •Pretzel flavored gum. Curb that salt With these 'necessities' every student 

•A 
cable and rope apparatus that page paper for you. craving and have gum at the same time. is bound to succeed on his or her finals. connects each dorm with LaFortune so •An outdoor pool in front of each Saving time is crucial during weeks like So consider this a list of items you need one can just slide over to LaFortune, dorm. these. to ace all of your finals and do your best print out a paper, and slide back in •Waterbeds and satin sheets. •ESP: want to know what your to acquire them. Maybe a 'Genie' will through the window landing in bed. •No grades; why not just learn for professor is putting on that cumulative grant your wishes. Good luck!. 





Tuesday, April30, 1991 The Observer page 13 


The Observer accepts classWieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar Collage Center. Deadline tor next-day classified& Ia 3p.m. All clasallleds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Ia 2 cents per charac1er per day, Including all spaces. 
II 
87 Saab 900 Turbo, red, sunroof, U.P.S. T Sub-leasing apanment at Castle auto, 3-dr, low miles,$11 ,250, Ph SERVICE DAILY R
NOTICES WANTED Point this summer. 277-8898 M-F 12-5/Sat.11-2 AL-----------...1 Moving to Chicago? Female ND If interested, please call2712. Ask N grad needs roommate to share 2 for KARLII Finals wk.: 9-5:30 M-F s
TYPING AVAILABLE 
bedroom apanment. Must be a Single Bed for Sale. One Year Old. Sat.11-2 F
287-4082 non-smoker. If interested, please Price is Negotiable. E 
Resumes....Professional quality 
call Ann at (312) 935-1958. Please Call 2805 THE COUNTRY HARVESTER A Quaint furnished apts. LaFortune Lower Level s272-5667. (Tom Williams) 
near N.D. for summer-! bedrm 239-6714 KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS $260; summer & fall-effeciency If you are Interested in helping with$$$ for books 1Q-4 :30 M-Sat.reg. 
NEEDED $35.00 & up per hour. $225; fall-2 bedrm $360; deposit, FOR SALE Transfer Orientation, come to thehours 1o-5:30 everyday Tax Free. Both skilled & unskilled. references 1-800-582-9320 recliner, desk SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE meeting tonight at 6:00 pm in thePandora's Books 233-2342 corner of ND Ave. & Howard 
For info. Call 615-779-5505 Ext. K-call 289-3349 basement of Breen Phillips. If you 
541. FOR SALE: cannot attend or have questions, FREEDOM I Avoid paying high rentals. Buy my call Matt at 272-0552, or Julie atBUDWEISER. COORS, PABST 
Need Roomate Rent the best furnished houses, FOR SALE 3 year old, dorm size FRIDGE for x1291.
SHOULD THIS BE CENSORED? 
Summer; Year prime locations, sec. systems, sand Pink/Peach Couch, 1 year old, only $50 and own it for next year. T $200.00 Mo. V-ball, wash/dry. Call Greg 233-practically new. Call Scott at X1650. R
STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF 
Call Lena 9947. $120/price negotiable. A
TIME? 
#3517 Call x3427 or stop by 311 BP SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE N
LASER QUALITY TERM 
Sublet apt. for summer: 1 sPAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK 
WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2) bedroom; 800+ sq. ft.; washer Fridge: $60 Call Heather: F
TURNAROUND. 
people to occupy a Turtle Creek & dryer in apt.; pool; tennis 284-5062 Nudelove, I miss you. I have no E Apt. for summer. More affordable courts; storage. CHEAP­one to make up personals about R
MAIL BOXES 
than a townhouse. Call Jim or John must rent. Call 277-2597 Need at least one and up to the sheepwoman with. s
277-6245. 
X1177. three grad tix. Please call TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE Scott@ 258-4324
TYPING term 
WANTED: USED VAN For Summer Lease CONGRATULATIONS ONpapers/reports/letters/resumes. 
In Decent Condition Call Jeff at 1615 or 1612 MOVING OFF CAMPUS? GRADUATION MILLERIIIPick up & delivery available. 277­5t34 Cathy 
Preferably Cheap Ill NEED A BED? love, kristen Call 283-4206 Live in the Frat House on Marion TICKETS DOUBLE BED FOR SALE-VERY .........JANET•········· leave name,#,$ St. This SUMMER Ill COMFORTABLE-LESS THAN A HAPPY BIRTHDAY Room for 6 comfrtbly. 1 mile frm. YEAR OLD. CALL ANNE AT HAPPY GRATUATION LOST/FOUND campus. Lots of amenities I CHEAP. LAFAYETIE SQUARE 288-0597 and
HelpI Grandparents need two CHEAP. $160 per month. call Tom HAPPY WEDDINGIIII
2 grad. tix. Call Jon x1847 -CINCINNATI-CINCINNATI-X1189. (stay away from hard alcohol 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
HELPI HELPI HELPI HELPI IF YOU'RE GOING ANYWHERE during this extremely busy month I LOST MY CROSS ON 3127 IN NEAR CINCINNATI THIS WEEK­Need female roommates for Fall foryoul)
I NEED GRADUATION TICKETSIII GYM 1OF THE ACC. IT IS A END, AND CAN TAKE A PASSEN­and Spring semesters at Turtle ADOPTION-HAPPILY MARRIED -satan
Grandparents are coming from SILVER CROSS ON A BLACK California-please help mel I 
GER, PLEASE CALL KRISTEN@ Creek. PROFESSIONAL COUPLE WISH ROPE. IT HAS GREAT 283-2927 ASAP Amanda, 271-1995 KRISTIN x273-9469 TO ADOPT A BABY TO LOVE. SENTIMENTAL VALUE I A WE ARE SENSITIVE TO BIRTH FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY 
REWARD IS OFFERED. IF YOU 1-way ticket: S.Bend to LAX, CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.
PARENT'S CONCERNS ABOUT FOUND IT PLEASE CALL: Furnished Summer Apt ADOPTION AND OPEN OPTIONS.
5/12/91. CheapI Steph x3536 MIKE AT 1788 FOR RENT 2 Bed. Call273-1747 CALL COLLECT 616-247-6936. SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER 
Need 2 GRADUATION TICKETS 
AND PLACEMENT TO CHECK LOST: STUDIO APARTMENTS OUR HOUSING/ROOMMATE
for grandmothers' 1 sVonly Two keys (for dorm room and mail GRAD. WEEKEND 1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS trips to ND. $$11 Call Tom "INFORMATION EXCHANGE" slot) on Fightin' Irish keychain, BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY $250-285 3698 or 3697/recorder. Ill! I JUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII between SOH and Library, Sunday 219-291-7153. CALL 2888595 000 The Copy Shop 000 
night. SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND LaFortune Student Center No sentimental value attatched. just An attractive studio in lovely old Desperately need 2 graduation tix. DISK TO CAREER AND OPEN ALL SUMMERIIIIIII a matter of convenience. Reward? SUMMER HOUSING PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR
mansion near N.D. $300 now for grandparents, or I will be left out 
Well, if you're cute (and of the renting for summer &fall91 call -3 br home of the will. Help melI Jon @ 289-RESUME BOOKS NOW. B.K., FEMALE persuasion) I'll give you a 2879624 -$153/mo./person+util. 1015 DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 What are you doing (or what Is big wet kiss (optional). -turn washer-dryer being done) when I talk to you on 
Thank you much! John x2331 microwave the phone?MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our -5 min. from campus & stores 
N.D. alumnae family for the most -safe neighborhood Desperately need graduation IIIII JUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII Lost at Commons: Denim jacket attractive, well-maintained HELP ME tickets-Julie X2950 LIMPY & HARVEY'S QUOTE with car keys and driver's liscences apartments on Chicago's North 282-2377 (Rich) SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND BOARD: "It's easier to fall down 
ot Usa Parker and Laura Parks In s10e1 Harawa noors, great closet DISK TO CAREER AND stairs than to crawl up them.• pocket. If round, please call 2806. space, lndry facils., conveniently ••cASTLE PT THIS SUMMERIll•• PERSONAL PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR 
located to public transp and Need 1 person to share RESUME BOOKS NOWI shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. WONDERFUL 3 bed wtloft Apt DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 SHIP GREYHOUND, PREPAID OR We'd love to help you outl IBM, COMMODORE, OR APPLE.
ONLY $180 mo. Call ASAP I COLLECT. BOXES PLUS LOST: Royal blue BACK PACK 273-9224 Cash paid for all makes of LOCATIONS ON CAMPUS. containing library books and a pair Computers and Software. 287-6041 
of purple glasses (I think) FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, Computer software for IBM and IIIII JUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII Please call Alison at 2806. HELPI AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, IBM compatible, Commodore or Top 10 Chris Cox (Cocks) Quotes Finals are coming. Thanx UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. FOR SALE Apple, $2 each. of the Weekend IIIII
SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND CAMPUS. 272-0615. WESTERN ELECTRONICS DISK TO CAREER AND 10.1ndeed. 1530 WESTERN AVE. PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR 9.Kate, have you started
ND PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO
LOST MONDAY NIGHT ON DEB'S 287-7550 RESUME BOOKS NOW. reading Faust yet?
YOUR STUDENT'S HOUSING
21 BIRTHDAY: Bracelet-gold links 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91-92 DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 8.HI FR. GEORGE Ill
COSTS-HOUSE W/2 APTS.
kind of in shape of hearts about Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. 7.Here I am...DRINKIII
GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO
quarter Inch wide. Possibly lost in 6.We're going to sing "Yellow
ND. LET'S EXPLORE
library computer lab. CJ's. or House with indiv. Rooms avail. NEED MONEY? We buy, sell and Submarine" In C-sharp.
POSSIBILITIES. 289-8720 (8-3PM)
Commons. (Nice combo, eh?l) 91-92 Yr. Shared living areas. trade, gold, silver, diamonds, IIIII JUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII 5.You guys, that's a Corby Car PLEASE HELP. sentimental Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. jewelry, guns, TV's, VCR's, behind usl value.... REWARDII CALL 1279. camcorders, cameras, air SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND 4.Mike, when I think about you I
FOR SALE:
Thanks. conditioners, microwaves. tools, DISK TO CAREER AND touch myself.
EVERYTHING MUST GO
CONDO for summer rental. Close Nintendo's, computers. PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR 3.let me read you some
1 Sofa
to ND. 2 bd, furnished. Rent OZARK TRADING POST RESUME BOOKS NOWI poetry......
1 Window Seat (FI & Gr)
flexiblell Call272-5708. 1530 WESTERN AVE. 
DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 2.Woman, bend over.
2 Carpets (12x10, 12x13)
FOUND: ring by LaFortune 287-7550 1.That looks like the Pietal
1 6 foot laddercall4060 1 small RefrigeratorLARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 4/5 
Carrie: BDRMS. $700.282-1014. I got it. Rads, Pancakes, Wednesday, 7 Had a great time at Senior Bar
Call X1583 
Come. And be my baby. a.m.? Thursday night. Your the best LOST: GOLD HEART WITH Call me (spontaneity...?) dance partner I ever had. Maybe AUSTRIAN CRYSTAL ON GOLD SUMMER SUBLETIOR NEEDED this week they will play some 
CHAIN AROUND ACC. Turtle Creek Apts, 2 bdrm SHANNON KAY: AC/DC -See Ya thereI
FORSALEFORSALEFORSALEFO
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. sublet from June-Aug. Tired of paying high taxi fares? I miss you lots and I love you very REWARD. Call x3828 Don't want to wait an hour for a taxi much. Good luck on your tests. H.S.
Women's ten-speed Columbia
CALL284-5512. to arrive? 
Dadbicycle $35 

I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and FURN 2-BDRM APT, SUMMER, Wicker chair $15 can give rides to the ........................iii••Need 2 Gerry,Rose carpet $50
Found: One pair of prescription UNIV VILLAGE, $1951MO airporVtrain/bus station the graduation tickets. Don't EVER dare me. You know I
Beige carpet $10
glasses in a Ray-Ban sunglasses 271-8622 weekend after finals for just $5. Call Brian at 288-0597. willdoitlll case. Were found on path around Call Rene at 277-9468 to reserve a 
(lots of good stuff)
St. Joe's Lake in front of the 3 Bedroom House spot. seminary. Kathryn x2734 Close To Campus GUFFIE LIVE Sill
Call Kate x4071
$555 Mo. + Dep. •• BOSTON CLUB TRUCK••
SALEFORSALEFORSALEFORSA232-3616 
SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM But the big question is how? I? 
$315 WILL BE LOADING ON LOST: GLASSES-dark blue each way on discounted scheduled THURSDAY, MAY 9 FROM frames In a mint green case Roommate for June 1 -Female airlines to Europe from Chicago. 12:30 TO 3:00 BEHIND THE Mall,
For Sale: 82 VW Rabbit
CALL x1813 nonsmoker. Runaway Bay, 2 bdrm, Call (800) 325-2026. 
BOOKSTORE You are the one and onlyGreat condition, tOOk miles2 full bath, wash/dry in apt., 
was$950-now negotiable fireplace, 110 lakeview, furnished. 
SHEEPWOMANMust sell Jeff @ 1786

$295/mth. No deposit. Stephanie 
-AnTostal '91 HELPIII (H) 259-9939. (W) 232-3992 MOVING TO CHICAGO at the end and you thought we had forgotten 
I lost my keys somewhere on Ext. 8253. of the summer and I am looking for .......would like to congratulate about you... campus Saturday (maybe in a female non-smoker roommate to Brendan Quinn
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.
LaFortune). If you found aND House for Rent share an apartment in the Lincoln and his Road Rallyin' Vermon on
Buying a car? Good rates. Call me
keyring with two keys on it-one $170/Mon Park/North Side area. Please call their Road Rally Victqry on Kristin lynch ...... 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993.
saying #328, please call me. Kelley Call 287-2159 Paul GinaX4853. Psychadelic Psaturday II looking forward to a VERY NICE
Office near campus.
x4854. Wednesday paperlllll Lisa 
JUNIORS & SENIORS... You can come to the SUB 2 BDRM. TOWNHOUSE, TURTLE If you have typing skills, P.C. office and pick up you ch&ck for The Jericho Sessions: 18 bands for CREEK, AVAILABLE FOR experience & if you are seeking a $25 later in the week II only $8. On sale now at the WVFI
89 GEO Spectrum
LOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT SUMMER SUBLET JUNE 1. CALL permanent or temporary office studios. Call 239-6400 for more info
Great Gas Mileage-
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL239-ERICA 283-4768 OR MONIQUE position in Chicago, call Angela
451city 50/highway
5812 TERRI WELTY. 283-4717. Ede at Interviewing Consultants, WASHINGTON D.C. AREA
Still has factory warranty 
Inc., 312-977-4611. RESIDENTS. Baggage truck home Colleen, CeCa, Susan and Kerr!,
excellent buy,
EARN $300-$500 PER WEEK Room Available In a save & historic will load up 519, 5110. Anything you are drying outl Don't let this
call Pat
READING BOOKS AT HOME. area. Full house priv. Washer & goes. Call Brett x1416 or Tom happen; go outl What am I saying,
288-5678
CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. Dryer Included. 1 mi. from N.D. Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We x1189 for info. It is Tuesday, of course you will. $220/mnth. Phone 287-7928 love you. Seeyou there.... 
SCOREBOARD 
WLAF STANDINGS BASEBALL STANDINGS STAHLEY CUP PLAYOFFS STAHLEY CUP PLAYOFF BOX 
DIVISION ANALS Montreal 0 0 IEuropean AMERICAN LEAGUE Wednesday, April 17 
w L T Pet. PF PA Boaton 0 2 London 6 0 0 1.000 188 58 
Eat DIVision Boston 2. Montreal 1 

w L Pet GB LtD Str""k Home Away
Barcelona 5 1 0 .833 155 B6 Washington 4, Pittsburgh 2 Firat Period-None. Penaltlea-Skrudland,
Toronto 12 8 .600 2-6-4 Won 1 8-3 4-5 
Frankfurt 4 2 0 .667 105 95 Thursday, April 18 Mon (tripping), :48; Nilan, Bos (roughing), 3:45;
Boston 10 7 .588 112 2·8·2 Won 2 6-4 4-3 Minnesota 2. St. Louis 1 Carbonneau, Mon (high-sticking) 1 0:38; Neely, BosDetroit 9 9 .500 2 2-5-5 Won 1 4-4 5-5 
North Amarican Eat Los Angeles 4, Edmonton 3, OT (roughing), 10:38: D.Sweeney, Bos (high-sticking),
Milwaukee 9 9 .500 2 z-l;-5 Lost 1 4-5 5-4 
N.Y.-N.J. 3 3 0 .500 156 94 Friday, Aprll19 11 :58, Roy, Mon. served by Lebeau (delay of
Cleveland 7 9 .438 3 z-l;-5 Won 1 1-5 6-4 Montreal 2 4 0 .333 67 155 
Montreal 4, Boston 3, OT game), 12:14 . 
N-York 6 10 .375 4 4-6 Lost 2 3-4 3-6 
Orlando 2 4 0 .333 130 195 Pittsburgh 7, Washington 6, OT Second Period-1, Boston, Christian 6 (Galley) • 
B~lmore 6 11 .353 4112 3-7 Lost 1 2-6 4-5 
Raleigh 0 6 0 .000 90 195 Saturday, April20 6:30. Penattle-Lebeau, Mon (hooking), 3:53; St. Louis 5, Minnesota 2 Richer, Mon (charging), 6:46; Galley, Bos
Weal Dlvlalon 

North American Weal Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 3, 20T (elbowing), 6:46; Skrudland. Mon (roughing), 7:41;
w L Pet GB LtD Streak Home Away
Birmingham 3 3 0 .500 79 98 Sunday, April 21 Nilan, Bos (roughing), 7:41; Poulin, Bos (cross-
Chicago 11 5 .688 5-5 Won 2 5-4 6-1 
San Amonlo 3 3 0 .500 118 93 Boston 3, Montreal2 checking). 7>1 t: B.Sweeney, Bos (roughing), 9:54;
Oakland 12 7 .632 112 4-6 Won 3 8-1 4·6 
Sacrarnemo 2 4 0 .333 78 97 Pittsburgh 3, Washington 1 Schneider, Mon (holding), 10:24; Savard, Mon
CaiHornla 9 tO .474 3112 2·4-6 Lost 3 4-6 ~ Monday, April 22 (Interference), 12:58; Skrudland, Mon (high·Minnesota 9 10 .474 3112 7-3 Won 5 7-3 2-7 
Monday'• Game Minnesota 5, St. Louis 1 sticking). 17:1D; D.Sweeney, Bos (cross-checking),
Texas 7 8 .467 3112 2-6-4 Lost 1 2-6 5-2 Birmingham 16, San Amonlo 12 
Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 3, 20T 19:39.
Seattle 9 t1 .450 4 2-5-5 Won 1 6-3 3-8 
Saturday, May 4 Tuesday, April 23 Third Perlod-2, Boston, Neely 12 (Wesley,
Kansas City 8 10 .444 4 4·6 Lost 3 54 3-6 Birmingham at Barcellma. 2 p.m. 
Montreal 6, Boston 2 Bourque), 1:59 (pp). 3, Montreal, Lebeau 2, 19:00. Montreal at Sacramento. 8 p.m. Pittsburgh 3, Washington 1 Penaltlea-5krudland, Mon (interference), 1:45;
NATIONAL lEAGUE 
Frankfurt at Orlando, 8 p.m. Wednesday, Aprll24 Lazaro, Bos (charging). 5>16.
Eat Dlvlalon Sunday, MayS 
Minnesota B. St. Louis 4 w L Pet GB LtD Streak Home Away

New York·N-Jersey at Raleigh-Durham, 1 Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 2 Shota on goai-Montreal10-11-15-36. Boston
Plnaburgh 13 6 .684 8-2 Won 2 7-3 6-3 Thursday, April 25 7-14·12-33.
p.m. StLouis 12 8 .600 t112 2·7·3 Won 1 8-3 4-5 
Boston 4, Montreal1 Power-play Opportunltlea-Montreal 0 of 6;
New York 11 8 .579 2 5-5 Lost 2 6-4 5-4 Pittsburgh 4, Washington 1, Boston 1 of 7.
TRANSACTIONS 

Chicago 9 11 .450 "tl2 2-8 Lost 1 6-3 3-8 
Pittsburgh wins series 4-1 Goaii..-Montreal, Roy, 7-5 (29 shots-27 IIA:it:BALL 
Phlladetphla 8 12 .400 5112 5-5 Won 3 6-4 2-8 
Frlday, Aprll 26 saves). Boston, Moog, 8·5 (36·35).NMioMI laegtM 
Montreal 6 13 .316 7 z-3-7 Won 1 3-6 3-7 
St. Louis 4, Minnesota 2 A-14,448. CHICAGO CUBS-Piaaod Mike Harkey, phcher, 
Los Angeles 5, Edmonton 2 Rei•••-Terry Gregson. Llneaman-Kevin on the 1l;-day dioabled ist, retroactive to April 27. 
Weal Dlvlalon 

Saturday, April 27 CoHins, Wayne Bonney. Recalled Bob Scanlan, p~char, from Iowa of the 
w L Pet GB LtD Snak Home Away 
Montreal 3, Boston 2, OT American Association. 
Cincinnati 10 8 .556 2·6-4 Won 1 54 ~ 
Sunday, April 28 SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Rescinded the 
San Diego 11 9 .550 4-6 Lost 3 5-5 6-4 
16•1!!1§J:tfi@:l;1!fi6•1;lfi
Minnesota 3. St. Louis 2. 

Los Angeles 10 9 .526 112 z-6-4 Won 1 4-6 6-3decision to option Trevor Wilson, pitcher, to 
Minnesota wins series 4-2 Phoenix ollhe Pacific Coast League. 
Allenta 8 9 .471 1112 5-5 Lost 2 2-6 6-3 Edmonton 4, Los Angeles 3, OT,
Houston 8 10 .444 2 z-4-6 Won 1 5-4 3-6 EAST
Edmonton wins series 4-2 

BASKETBALL San F ranclsco 8 11 .421 2112 2-5-5 Lost 1 5-4 3-7 Brocl<port St. 10-6, RIT 1-5 
Monday, April 29 Unlttd SlatH Baakeblt l.aagtM 
C.W. Post 4, West Cheater 1Boston 2, Montreal 1, Boston wins series 4-3 2-denotes first game was a win. 
LeMoyne 8-5, Niagara 3-1 

Long Island U. 5, St. Francis, N.Y. 1 AMERICAN LEAGUE 
ATLANTA-Named Charlie Crtsa coach. 

CONFERENCECHA~ON~PS 
Mansfield 6-12, E. Stroudsburg 4-2 
FOOTBAU 
Wednesday, May 1 Monday'aG_. NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Nail_. Foolllall l..aegue Nichol& 20, F•chburg St. 6 
Pittsburgh at Boston, 7:35p.m.
Seattle 10, B~lmora 1 Monday'aGamea Pace 12, Brooklyn Coli. 4 NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Kiernan Clair, Thursday, May 2 Detron 3, Kansas City 1 Phlladiolphia 7, San Diego 2 Queens Col. 3, Kings Point 0 quarterback; Albert Fann, Duane Kinnon, Mike Minnesota at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. 
Only games scheduled St. Louis4, Atlanta 3, 11 innings Oulnnplac 9-5, Springfield 3-1Richardson and Tony Satter, running backs; Don Friday, May 3 Only games scheduled 
Rutgers-Newark 13, Rutgers-Camden 9 Tl.-day'aGamea
Kelner. Alex Shall and Greg Taylor, wide receivers; 

Pittsburgh at Boston, 7:35 p.m. Chuck Boler, Jay Butler, Gary McCummlngs, Larry 
SOUTHSaturday, May 4 Seattle (Hanson 1-1) Tueaday'aGemea 

Charleston Southern 8-6, Eastern Carolina 4-5 at ~irnore (Ballard 2·1), 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh (Drabek 1-3) 
Madlce and Richard Segina. offensive linemen; 
Minnesota at Edmonton, 8:05p.m. Chris Gala, Demetrius Hill, Stanley Jones, Chad Georgia Southam 22. Augusta 6 
Sunday, May 5 Chicago (Fernandez2·1) at Cin~innatl (Browning 2·1), 7:35p.m. 

Radford at Wake Forest, ppd., rain at Milwaukee (Bosio 2·2), 8:Q5 p.m. Los Angeles (Morgan 2·1) 
Rolen, Dennis Tripp and Jerry Williams, defensive 

Boston at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. lineman; Bryan Brewer and Matt Kelley, 
MIDWESTMonday, May 6Boston (Young 0-1) at Montreal (De.Martinez 2·2). 7:35p.m. 

Grace, Ind. 9, Goshen 5 Hnebackera; Mark Peoples and Ben Washington, Edmonton at Minnesota. 8:05p.m.

at Minnesota (Anderson 1·2). 8:05p.m. San Francisco (Black 1·3) Iowa St. 10, Kansas 8, 8 Innings defensive backs, and Tom Rouen, pumer. 
Tuesday, May 7 Detroit (TerreH 0-3) at Philadelphia (Corms 1·1), 7:35p.m. 

Kansas St. 13-12, Nebraska 12-16 at Kansas City (Aquino 0-0), 8:35p.m. San Diego (Lilliquist 0-0) 
Boston at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. HOCKEY 
Toledo 14, Ashland 4 Wednesday, May 8

Toronto (Stleb 2·2) at New York (Gooden 2·1), 7:40p.m. at Texas (Brown 2-1), 8:35p.m. Houston (Portugal 2·0) 
Nail_. Hockey Laegue Youngstown St. 7, Geneva 4 
Edmonton at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. Thursday, ST. LOUIS BLUE~slgned Dave Thomlinson, 
SOUTHWESTMay9New York (Eiland 1-0) at Chicago (Bielecki 3-1 ), 8:05 p.m. 

Houston 7, Texas Southern 0 at Oakland (Walch 2·1), 10:05 p.m. Atlanta (laibrandt 2·1) 
left wing; Kelly Chase, right wing, and Pat 

Pittsburgh at Boston, 7:35p.m.. Hnecessary Jablonski, goalie, to Peoria of the International 
NW Louisiana 6, Texas-Arlington 2 Friday, May 10 Cleveland (Swindall 0-3) at St. Louis (Deleon 1·2). 8:35p.m. 
FAR WEST Hockey League. 

Minnesota at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m .. II necessaryat California (lewis 1-1 ), 10:35 p.m. 
California 8, Hawaii 1 Saturday, May 11Wedneaday'a G-Wedneeday'a Gamea 

SOCCER 

Boston at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m., nnecessaryChicago at Milwaukee, 2:35 p.m. Atlanta at St. Louis, 1 :35 p.m. 
Major Soccer League 

Sunday, May 12 MSL-Announced the approval of the application 
New York at Oakland, 3:15 p.m. Houston at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. 
Edmonton at Minnesota. 8:05 p.m .. II necessaryby Pittsburgh Soccer Group lor lhe '91-'92 season. 
Seattle at Bahimore, 7:35p.m. Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. 
Monday, May 13 Detroh at Kansas City, 8:35 p.m. Los Angeles at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. 

Pittsburgh at Boston, 7:35 p.m., nnecessary SPEEDSKATING 
Boston a1 Minnesota, 8:35 p.m. San Francisco at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m. 
Tuesday, May 14 

Toronto at Texas, 8:35p.m. San Diego at New York. 7:40p.m.
U.S. INTERNATIONAL SPEEDSKATING 

Cleveland at Calllomia, 10:35 p.m. 
ASSOCIATION-Named Peter Mueller and Stanislaw Klotkowski long track coaches lor the national team. 

HBA PLAYOFFS 
Satwday, April 27 Monday, April 211 DARTMOUTH-Named Susan Darting women's Golden St. 111, San Antonio 98, series tied 1·1 No games scheduled asslstam basketball coach. 
COLLEGE 

LA Lakers 109, Houston 98, LA leads series 2-0 T..aday, April 30 FAIRFIELD-Named Paul Cormier men's 
Phoenix 102, Utah 92, ....lea tied 1-1 Detroh at Atlanta. 7:30 p.m. 
Philadelphia 116, Milwaukee 112, OT, Chicago at New York, 7:30 p.m. 
Philadelphia leads series 2-Q Milwaukee at Philadelphia, 7:30 p.m. 
basketball coach. 
GREAT MIDWEST CONFERENCE-Named Dave Phillips supervisor of men's basketball 

Sunday, April 28 LA Lakers at Hc~Pt?n, 8 p.m. 
Indiana 130, Boston 118, series tied 1-1officials. 
Chicago 89, NY 79, Chicago leads series 2-0 
SOUTHWEST MISSOURI STATE-Announced 

Detroh 101, Atlanta 88, series tied 1-1
the resignation of Brat lba, men's assistant 

Portland 115, Seattle 106, 
basketball coach, so he can take the same po&nlon Portland leads series 2-Qat Toledo. 

MAJOR LEAGUE LEADERS 

THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE 
Baaed on 43 at Bate. Beaed on 43 •• Bate. AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE G AB R H Pet. G AB R H Pet. 
A NEW COURSE FOR SUMMER SESSION 1991 EMartinez Sea 20 64 17 27 .422 Biggio Htn 16 60 9 23 .383 Espnoza NY 16 46 9 18 .391 Jose Stl 20 75 16 28 .373 DHdsn Oak 19 72 17 28 .389 McGee SF 14 53 12 19 .358 CRpken B~ 17 64 16 23 .359 TGwynn SO 20 80 9 28 .350 Puckett Min 19 76 11 27 .355 HMorrlaCin 14 49 5 17 .347 JoCarterTor 20 80 11 28 .350 WCiarkSF 19 72 12 25 .347 Ventura Chi 15 55 7 19 .345 Dawson Chi 20 75 9 25 .333 
TAUGHT BY PROF. JOHN CAVADINI 
Joyner Cal 17 61 10 2t .344 Doran Cin 15 48 5 16 .333 
Knoblauch Min 19 70 13 24 .343 Sciascia LA 18 60 11 20 .333 
Vount Mil 18 73 12 25 .342 BoniMaPh 19 70 15 23 .329 
(This course replaces THEO 227 and fulfills the second theology requirement) 
HOME RUNS HOME RUNS 
DHendiorson, Oakland, 6; KGibson, Kansas Chy, MhcheU, San Francisco, 7; Dawson, Chicago, 5; 6; CRipken, Bahlmore, 5; GVaughn, Milwaukee, 5; Decker, San Francioco, 4; GBell. Chicago, 4; Yount, Milwaukee. 5; CDavis, Minnesota. 4; Deer, ONeill, Cincinnati, 4; Samuel. Los Angeles, 4; Detron, 4; GDavls. Bahlmore, 4. WCiark. San Francisco, 4; 10 are tied with 3. RUNS BATTED IN RUNS BATTED IN 
CRipken, Bahlmore, 20; DHenderson, Oakland, WCiark, San Francisco, 21; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 
THEO 250 ·ROADS TO GOD. Call #0537. 10:20-11:20 MTWHF 
18; Fielder, Detroit, 18; Yount, Milwaukee, 17; 18; Daniela, Los Angeles, 18; Dawson, Chicago, JoCarter, Toronto, 15; Fletcher, Chicago, 14; 16; Kruk, Philadelphia, 16; Mhcheil, San Francisco, Winlleld, California, 14; Hrbek, Minnesota, 13; 16; Jose, StLouis, 15; Samuel, Los Angeles, 15; Thomas, Chicago. 13. VanSlyke. Pittsburgh, 15. RUNS RUNS 
OHender~~on. Oakland, 17; EMartin87, Seattle, Dykstra. Philadelphia, 19; Jose, St. Louis, 16; 17; CRipken, Bahimore, 16; While, Toronto, 15; RThompson, San Francisco, 16; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, Can&eco, Oakland. 14. 15; DeShields, Montreal, 15; Strawberry, Loa IITS Angeles, 15. 
DHendiorson, Oakland, 28; JoCarter, Toronto, 28; IITS 
This course is, from the point of view of chronology, a sequel to the First Course in 
EMartinaz, Seattle, 27; Puckett, Minnesota, 27; Jose, St. Louis, 28; TGwynn, San Diego, 28; 
Yount, Milwaukee, 25. Dawson, Chicago, 25; Samuel, Los Angeles, 25; 
Theology. It covers representatives of theological traditions from the sixth to the 
DOUBLES WCiark. San Francisco, 25. 
seventeenth centuries. Our focal point for the consideration of these theologies will be the
DHenderson, Oakland, 9; RAiomar, Toronto, 9; DOUBLES WMe, Toronto, 9; JoCarter, Toronto, 8; Eisenrelch, Jose, St. Louis, 8; HMorria, Cincinnati, 7; Bonilla, 
question of human awareness of God. What is the character of it? How is it acquired? Is 
Kansas City, 7; Tartabull, Kansas City, 7. Pittsburgh, 6; Bream, Atlanta, 6; Dykstra, 
TRIPLES Philadelphia, 6; Gant, Atlanta. 6; Strawberry, Los 
it appropriately called "knowledge" of God? If so, how is it related to faith? We will 
Greenwell, Boston, 2; Knoblauch, Minnesota, 2; Angeles, 6. 
consult a variety of texts to assist in our reflection on these questions, including readings 
WWilson, Oakland, 2; 42 are tied with 1. TRIPLES 
STOLEN BASES Candaele, Houston, 3; TGwynn, San Diego, 3; 9 
from Gregory the Great, Benedict, Bernard of Clairvaux, Anselm, Hildegard, Francis and 
Polonla, California, 8; Penis, Texas, 7; RAiomar, are tied whh 2. Toronto, 6; Briley, Seattle, 5; Cotto, Seattle, 5. STOLEN BASES 
Clare of Assisi, Bonaventure, Aquinas, Dante, The Cloud of Unknowing, Julian of Norwich, 
PITCHING (3 Decialona) Coleman, New York, 11; DeShields, Montreal, 11; 
Luther, Teresa of Avila, Pascal, and others.
Clemens, Boston, 4·0, 1.000; Finley, California, Dykstra, Philadelphia, 7; Nixon, Atlanta, 7; 4·0, 1.000; Key. TorontQ, 4·0, 1.000; Moore, Dascenzo, Chicago, 6; Roberts, San Diego, 6. Oakland, 3-0, 1.000; Timlin, Toronto, 3-0, 1.000; STRIKEOUTS McDowell, Chicago, 4-1 ..BOO. 9 are tied with .667. Gooden, New York, 34; Benes, San Diego, 30; STRIKEOUTS Glavlne, Atlanta, 26: Hurst. San Diego, 26; 
Ryan. Texas, 37; Clemens, Boston, 34; Charlton. Cincinnati, 23. McDowell, Chicago, 31; Leary, New York, 28; SAVES Hanson. Seattle, 27. LeSmlth, St. Louis, 7; Franco, New York, 5; SAVES LeHerts, San Diego, 5; DaSmith, Chicago, 4; 
Eckersley, Oakland, 7; Reardon, Boston, 7; Dibble, Cincinnati, 4: MiWilliams, Philadelphia, 4. Thigpen, Chicago. 6; DJones, Cleveland, 5; DWard, PITCIING (3 Decialone) Toronto, 5; Montgomery, Kansas City, 5. BSmilh. St Louis, 3-0, 1.000; Hammond, 
Cincinnati, 3-0, 1.000; RMcDowell, Philadelphia, 3­
0, 1.000; Smiley, Pittsburgh, 4-0, 1.000; Viola, New 
York, 3-Q, 1.000; Belcher. Los Angeles, 3-1, .750; 
Bielecki, Chicago, 3-1, .750; Nohe, San Diego. 3-1 • 
. 750; RMartinez, Los Angeles, 3-1, .750. 
Minnesota at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m .. II necessary 
The Observer would like to wish all NO and SMC students good luck on their finals next week. 

-------~-~--------­
Tuesday, April30, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Baseball card manufacturer brings hobby into grade school classrooms 
MEMPIIIS, Tenn. (AP) -A youngster checking out a spiffy new Carlton Fisk during math class may be working on more than a baseball card daydream. lie might be learning to divide 129 by 543. 
And after that, he could find out where Lockport, Ill., is, not to mention Bellows Falls, Vt. 
Baseball cards can be a teaching tool for a variety of subjects from math to geogra­phy to art. 
"The surest way to teach people is to have them interested and excited," said Peter Helie, a consultant to Leaf Inc., the manufacturer of Donruss baseball cards of Memphis. 
"For kids who are interested in baseball and card collecting, it's the surest way to teach per­centages, short and long divi­
A's slugger Jose Canseco believes that hitting 60 home-runs 
mains a mystifying mark. was realistic," said Kiner, a
in a season is an impossible feat. 
Canseco thinks he might be broadcaster for the Mets since able to reach 50 homers and 50 1962. "I was really after the NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
steals in a season. He's much National League record more 
less optimistic, however, about than anything else." 60 homers. Kiner said he got a lot of mail, "It's impossible," said most of it negative, during the Canseco, who hit 42 homers for seasons he came closest to 
PRESENTS 

BAD CINEMA WEEK 
Oakland in 1988. "Mark my Huth. Many of those letters told words, it will never be done. Kiner he would ruin baseball if 
Everybody has at least one good he hit 60. 
A CELEBRATION OF THE MOST PATHETIC 
reliever." "It's amazing how revered that Last year, Fielder hit two record is," Kiner said. "But I home runs at Yankee Stadium thought it was unachievable." 
ATTEMPTS AT MOVIEMAKING EVER MADE 
THE TERROR. Of TINY TOWN 
TUESDAY 9:30 p.m. 
PRIME TIME
CINEMA AT THE SNITE If you like western musicals with an all-midget cast, you'lllove 
VIDEO PRODUCTIONS 

• 288-0322.
TINY TOWN. Two-gun characters ride the plains on Shetland ponies and wallc under doors. awful. 
Capture The Beauty Of Your Wedding Day 
/ 

_.(/
/·._ ...." 
,.
Shelle R~ Wa 

MAY DEVOTIONS 
In Honor of the 

Mother of GOD on May 1st (Wed) 
6:45 pm at Notre Dame Grotto 
WEDNESDAY 9:00 p.m. CINEMA AT THE SNITE This classic ranks as one of the most abyssmal films of all 
Sponsored by Knights of the
time. Astronauts discover remnants of Atlantis on Jupiter's 
Immaculata

13th moon, which coincidentally is populated by 23 scantilly clad women and a voyeuristic monster. bad cinema. 
sion," Relic said. "It's something the kids are living with every day and they want to learn it." 
Helie helped develop a series of cards Donruss is marketing to school teachers and libraries around the country. The cards, in sets of 55 each, include teachers' guides and other aids for using them in the classroom. 
For a math exercise, young­sters with Fisk's card could figure his .238 batting average for 1985 by dividing his 129 hits by his 543 at-bats. 
They could be sent to the map to locate Lockport, his home­town, or Bellows Falls, his birthplace. 
Baseball Is a game of statis­tics, and a typical baseball card sports many numbers. On the front, there's a picture of the featured player. On the back is his lifetime record. 
The card also includes basic personal information about the player and a brief career his­tory. 
When Helie became a school teacher he started thinking about things like teaching aids, and remembered his baseball cards. 
He used them often in his grammar school classes to teach spelling and reading as well as math. They also came in handy for other subjects. 
"I would very often work with color, design and graphics from the art work on the cards," he said. 
A former superintendent of schools in Hamilton, Ohio, West Hartford, Conn., and Charlotte, N.C., Relic is now scholar in residence at Belmont Abbey College in Belmont, N.C. 
He became a consultant for 

Home-runs still most challenging for pros 
(AP)-As records go, 61 home runs in a season is still solid gold. 
Rickey Henderson is about to set a nice little record for ca­reer stolen bases. Nolan Ryan seems to set pitching records every other week. But when it comes to the big time, home run hitters are king. 
"There's a glamour to it," said Hall of Farner Willie Stargell, who hit 48 homers for Pittsburgh in 1971. "But you can hit 65 home runs and finish in last place." 
Thirty years ago, Roger Maris surpassed Babe Ruth by hitting 61 homers for New York and the Yankees won a World Series. That was the glamorous sidP. 
Even in an era of stronger sluggers such as Kevin Mitchell, Cecil Fielder and Jose Canseco and livelier baseballs, the magic home run number of 60 re­Leaf last year after pointing out to the company how baseball cards can be used in the classroom. 
The teaching guides come in two editions, one for third and fourth grades and one for fifth through eighth grades. There's an optional 14-minute video with clips of famous players and historic games. 
An accompanying set of wall posters contrasts famous dates in baseball with major occur­rences in American history. 
What happened in 1927? Babe Ruth hit 60 home runs in 154 games and Charles Lindbergh took the "Spirit of St. Louis" on the first solo flight across the Atlantic. 
Martin Pearce, vice president of marketing for Leaf, said his company has spent more than $150,000 developing the series 
on the final day of the season to finish with 51. The 50-homer milestone has been accomplised 18 times by 11 different play­ers. Ruth did it four times in a 154-game schedule, the first coming in 1920 when he hit 54 homers. 
"Sixty home runs can't be done now," said Mike Schmidt, who won eight home run titles with the Philadelphia Phillies. "The pitching is too good. The 
. traveling is tougher." 
Maris broke Ruth's 1927 record of 60 on the final day of 1961, the first season of the 162-game schedule, and Hack Wilson's 56 in 1930 are the most ever in the NL. 
Among those who chased Ruth's ghost was Raloh Kiner. 
'i. 
' 

and offering it to teachers through direct mail advertising. 
The mailings have concentrated so far In areas with major league teams. About 4,000 sets of cards have been sold and Leaf expects to top out this year with sales of 7,000 to 10,000 sets, said Nancy Williams, a company spokeswoman. 
The cards and teacher's guides sell for $8 to $18, depending on whether the video Is included. 
Cards In the teaching series arc basically like other baseball cards but with a few twists. All of the player pictures are head and shoulder shots. 
While the pictured players are all male, girls enjoy the baseball card exercises too, Helie said. 
"When you use the cards, and they are very colorful, they in­terest all of the kids." 
When Maris surpassed Ruth 
by one, leaving an asterisk de­
noting the 162-game schedule, 
it surprised Kiner. "I always felt 
that if someone was going to 
beat Ruth, it would be by more 
than one home run because of 
the pressure involved," he said. 
Talk about pressure. As a 
rookie in 1987, Oakland's Mark 
McGwlre was on a pace to hit 
60 homers for a while until 
slumping the last two months of 
the season. He finished with 49 
home runs, a rookie record. 
"J think the strain of all the 
media attention really caught 
up with me In August," 
McGwire said. "When I think 
about it, the time, the demands, 
the people who wanted to talk 
to me, doing a radio show, a TV 
lntP.rviAw, a nAWS\)apf!r In­
terview, odds and ends that 
people want your time for, it 
took a toll and caught up with 
me." 

McGwire hit only three homers in August after enduring a 14-game, 9-for-50 slump that started July 27. It was a pressure that Marls knew, too. 
Maris' hair literally fell out in 
the final days of the Huth 
chase, although he kept getting 
good pitches to hit. On a 
Yankees team that hit a record 
240 homers, including Mickey 
Mantle's 54, pitchers didn't 
have much room to maneuver. 
"When I was getting hot, a lot 
of guys wouldn't pitch to me or 
would pitch around me," said 
Kiner, whose Pirates finished 
above .500 only once during his 
big home run years . 

George Foster was the last 
National League player to 
reach 50 homers, hitting 52 for 
Cincinnati in 1977. That sea­
son, he was hit in the head by 
pitches more than a half-dozen 
times. 

"I don't know if it was worth it," Foster once said. "I don't know if I'd want to go through that again." 
Willie Mays and Johnny Mlze also reached the 50-homer level in the NL. Jimmie Foxx and Hank Greenberg are the others in the AL. 
Schmidt, whose career high was 48 homers in 1980, thinks the next challenge to 60 will come from someone in the AL. 
"If It ever could be done, it would have to happen in the American League, but it could never happen in the National League," Schmidt said. "With the designated hitter, the AL creates more offense. That means more at-bats and more emphasis on big hitters." 
Mitchell might disagree. He hit seven home runs In April for San Francisco. Maris had one homer in April 1961. 

who won or shared seven NL home run titles. He hit 54 In 1949 and 51 in 1947 for Pittsburgh. 
"I didn't think Ruth's record 
Seattle crushes O's; Murphy, Phillies win 
(AP)-The Seattle Mariners, a team of up and downs, ended another losing streak on Monday night. 
Every starter got at least one hit as Seattle beat the slumping Baltimore Orioles 10-1 and ended a five-game losing streak. 
"It's a funny thing. Lose six, win eight, lose five," manager Jim Lefebvre said. "Obviously, we're hoping this doesn't hap­pen too often. We'd like to be a little more consistent." 
The Orioles, on the other hand, have been consistently bad. Baltimore has lost eight of 11 and is 4-9 since its only win­ning streak-two games. 
"The most disturbing thing is how inconsistent we've been," manager Frank Robinson said. "We probably played with less in tensity and enthusiasm tonight than any game this year." 
Rich DeLucia (2-2) allowed seven hits in 7 2-3 innings, struck out three and walked three. Seattle made four double plays, three behind DeLucia. 
Sam Horn homered for the Orioles, whose starters have a 
7.45 ERA in the first four games of the current homes­tand. Dave Johnson (1-3) gave up six runs and nine hits in four innings. 
Tigers 3, Royals 1 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. Emergency starter Steve Searcy 
·combined with Paul Gibson to shut down Kansas City. Alan Trammell hit two run-scoring singles and Mickey Tettleton hit his second home run of the sea­son in the eighth. 
Searcy (1-1), who failed to get out of the second inning in his previous start, pitched 5 1-3 innings in place of Dan Petry, 
who was scratched with lower back pain. 
Gibson relieved Searcy with one out and two on in the sixth, loaded the bases with an inten­tional walk and then threw called third strikes past Kurt Stillwell and Gary Thurman. Gibson finished with two-hit relief for his first save. 
Bret Saberhagen (1-3), win­less since opening day, has had only one run scored for him while he was in the game dur­ing his last three starts. Saberhagen allowed seven hits in seven innings and struck out five before Steve Crawford re­lieved. 
Philadelphia 7, San Diego 2 
PHILADELPHIA-Hitting against the Padres seems easy for Dale Murphy. 
Cremins 
continued from page 20 
he said in an interview before making a luncheon speech here. "It was a hard decision and it was the first time I had thought about leaving. The challenge to keep things going at Georgia Tech is still there. We've slipped a little bit, but I want to bring it back." 
Tech, which reached the Final Four in 1989-90, was 17-13 this season and reached the NCAA tournament's second round before losing to Ohio State. It was the seventh year in a row Georgia Tech made the NCAA tournament. 
Cremins' record at Tech is 198-112. He was 100-70 in six seasons at Appalachian State. 
"It was a tough decision, but Tech is a tough job, too," he said. "In some ways Notre Dame is an easier job than here. I know there's something special about Notre Dame. But I feel something special here, too." 


.---------------------------·----··----------------------------------------------------------------1 THE NOTRE DAME COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 
DEVELOPMENT  WOULD  LIKE TO  CONGRATULATE  THE  FOLLOWING  
STUDENTS,  WHO  WILL  BE REPRESENTING THE  COUNCIL THIS  SUMMER  
IN VARIOUS  INTERNSHIP  POSITIONS AROUND  THE  WORLD!  
SPAIN  
Jennifer Haffner Maria somerset  u.s. u.s.  Embassy Embassy  (Barcelona) (Barcelona)  

Tiffany Stronsky ICADE (Madrid)' 
FRANCE 

Steve Kozachok u.s. Embassy (Paris) 
UNITED KINGDOM 'Jennifer Degnan GE Consult 
SWITZERLAND Paul Shinn JP Morgan 
GERMANY Jackie Griesbach Bayer 
AUSTRALIA Rob Corrao Marketshare 
DELEGATION TO WESTERN AND EASTERN EUROPE Jim Nappo Christine Reinhardt steve Kozachok 
Murphy drove in three runs with a two-run homer and a sacrifice fly as the Philadelphia Phillies beat San Diego 7-2 Monday night for their third straight victory. 
Murphy hit a sacrifice fly in the first inning to give Philadelphia a 1-0 lead and broke a 1-1 tie with a two-run homer in the third. 
"I play a lot of games in San Diego and, of course, also in Atlanta and they're both good hitting parks," said Murphy, a former Brave. "I think that's the reason. Also, in my first year up in September, I played some games in San Diego. In fact, I hit my firSt home run there." 
Terry Mulholland (2-2) al­lowed six hits in eight innings, struck out three and walked one. Mitch Williams pitched a perfect ninth. 
Ed Whitson (1-3) lost his third consecutive start, allowing 11 hits and five runs in six innings. He has given up 13 runs and 26 hits in 20 1-3 innings over his last three starts. 
"They deserved to win the game," San Diego manager Greg Riddoch said. "They pitched well and they had some timely hitting." 
St. Louis 4, Atlanta 3 
ST. LOUIS -Ozzie Smith tied the game in the seventh inning and won it with a bases-loaded sacrifice fly in the 11th Monday night as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Atlanta Braves 4-3. 
St. Louis has won four games in its final at-bat and has rallied to win in half its 12 victories. The Cardinals trailed 3-0 before tying the score in the seventh on Smith's two-run infield single. 
Geronimo Pena drew a one­out walk in the 11th off Doug Sisk (2-1) and stole second. Milt Thompson was intentionally walked and Bernard Gilkey got an infield hit when shortstop Jeff Blauser couldn't get the ball out of his glove in time for a forceout. Smith followed with a drive to center that easily scored Pena. 
Lee Smith (2-0), the fourth St. Louis pitcher, pitched two per­fect innings. Smith has two wins and seven saves in nine appearances for the Cardinals, who are 8-3 during a 13-game homestand. 
St. Louis rallied with three runs in the seventh to tie. Felix Jose doubled, Todd Zeile hit a run-scoring singie and Jose Oquendo singled with one nut to chase starter John Smoltz. 
AP Photo Randy Ready and the Philadelphia Phillies rolled to their third straight win Monday night with a 7-2 victory over San Diego at the Vet. 
A SPECIAL THANKS TO ALL INTERNSHIPS THIS YEAR. GREATLY APPRECIATED!!!! 
COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO APPLIED FOR YOUR HARD WORK AND DEDICATION IS 
Tuesday, April30, 1991 
SPORTS SHORTS 
Shumate Interviewed Monday forlrJsh coaching spot 
•DALLAS 
-Southern Methodist basketball coach John Shumate interviewed for the vacant Notre Dame job Monday, the same day the leading candidate withdrew hls name from consideration, a newspaper reported. Shumate is the only conOrmed candidate to interview for the job, a source close to the SMU program told The Dallas Morning News. Shumate's chances for the job improved Monday when Georgia Tech coach Bobby Cremins turned down an opportunity to interview. Cremins said he told Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal that he did not want the job. SMU athletic director Forrest Gregg and the Southwest Conference gave Shumate permission to skip a mandatory SWC coaches meeting In Dallas, The News reported in Tuesday's editions. "John had the meeting covered and called the SWC," Gregg said. "It's quite OK with me and the SWC. I'm not going to confirm where he Is. I'm on the sidelines on this. This is their business, not mine." Notre Dame has been looking for a coach since Digger Phelps, who coached the Irish for 20 years, retired April 15. 

NCAA discusses distance of three-point line 

•KANSAS 
CITY, Mo. -The NCM men's basketball rules committee began discussions Monday on whether to move the a­point arc nine inches farther from the basket. The 11-member committee is expected to Issue a ruling by Wednesday, said Jim Marchlony, an NCAA spokesman. NCAA and NAIA rules currently draw the semi-circle at 19 feet, 9 Inches. If the committee adopts the 20-6 distance, it would bring the NCM in conformance with the lnternatlona.ldard. Other rules being considered would expand the use of television replays to assist officials, widen the free-throw lane and abolish the rule giving two free throws on the lOth team foul in each half. 


Pease leads Birmingham In WFL action 
•BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -Brent Pease threw two touchdown passes to Steve Avery as the Birmingham Fire scored all its points in a 3 1/2-mlnute stretch of the second quarter and held on to beat the San Antonio Riders 16-12 Monday night in a World League of American Football game. The Fire (3-3) withstood a fourth-quarter rally by the Hiders (3-3) in a game played before an estimated crowd of 8,000 In a persistent rain. Pease hit Avery with an 11-yard scoring pass for a 7-0 lead with 5:04 left in the llrst half. On the Riders' next possession, Eddie Grant snapped the ball over the head of punter Kent Sullivan and out of the end zone for a safety, giving Birmingham a 9-0 lead. 

The Observer 

page 17 
Pan Am Games hoops squad picked 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) -Three players from na­tional champion Duke ­Christian Laettner, Grant Hill and Thomas Hill -are among 17 llnalists for spots on the U.S. basketball team that will compete in the Pan American Games this summer. 
The finalists, announced on Monday, include 13 players who competed in the Pan Am trials and four athletes who were granted waivers to miss the competition. Thirty-eight players participated in the tryouts. 
"I think the strength of this team is the versatility of it," said Gene Keady, head coach of the U.S. team .. "You've got some guys who can play a lot of different positions." 
The finalists go to the U.S. training camp that begins July 15 at Purdue, where Keady is head coach. The roster will be trimmed to 12 before the squad begins play at the Pan Am Games, which take place Aug. 3-17 in Havana, Cuba. 
The four players invited to training camp after getting permission to miss the trials are Laettner, Robert Horry of Alabama, Byron Houston of Oklahoma State and Doug Christie of Pepperdine. 
One of the biggest surprises in the final group is Anthony Bennett, a 5-foot-11 guard from Wisconsin-Green Bay. 
"It's a great honor .... It's truly a dream of mine come true," Bennett said. "I thought I had to play as hard as I could and then let the rest take care of itself." 
Also making the llnal 17 was Jim Jackson of Ohio State, the Big Ten player of the year. Jackson said his failure to make another U.S. team -the one that played in last year's world championships -gave him incentive to improve and "helped me realize I had a long way to go to become a complete player." 
Other invited to the training camp are Terry Dehere of Seton Hall; Tom Gugliotta of North Carolina State; Adam Keefe of Stanford; Eric Montross of North Carolina; Tracy Murray of UCLA; Mike Peplowski of Michigan State; Elmore Spencer of UNLV; Clarence Weatherspoon of Southern Mississippi; and Walt Williams of Maryland. 
Among those who failed to make the first cut were Eric 
. Anderson and Damon Bailey of Indiana, Anderson Hunt of UNLV, Mark Baker of Ohio State, and Alonzo Jamison of Kansas. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Spons 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 

•NO 
I SMC Salllng awards dinner will be held tonight at 6:45 pm at Lisa Fox's. For more information please call Moira at 283­5224. 

•Students 
and staff interested in having a climbing wall on campus should come to a short meeting at 7:00 pm on Wednesday, May 1, at the Non-Varsity Athletics office. Anyone with questions should call NVA at 239-6100. 

•WVFI 
will hold an organizational meeting at 8:00 pm on Thursday in the 2nd floor LaFortune studio for anyone interested in working in the station's sports department Any questions, call Mike at 283-4018. 

•Irish 
Guard: Anyone interested in trying out for the Irish Guard who missed the first informational meeting should call Chris Woods at 283-1606. 

•Matt 
Ayers, a senior at Notre Dame, shot a hole in one on hole number six at the Burke Memorial golf course on Thursday, April25. 


Tension rising between Cincinnati's Wyche and quarterback Esiason 
CINCINNATI (AP)-Cincinnati Bengals quarterback Boomer Esiason is at odds again with coach Sam Wyche, claiming that Wyche should focus on football instead of outside issues. 
But Wyche, who is active in helping the homeless and out­spoken on women in the locker 
Take off with low fares. 
10 °/o Off coupon 


• 
Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Rentals 

• 
24-Hr. Emergency Road Service 

• 
Full Range of Truck Sizes 

• 
Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks 

• 
Many Trucks With Auto Trans­mission and Air Conditioning 



room, told Esiason and other Bengals in a meeting Sunday that he's not about to back off his beliefs. 
"There's no change in this coach, I can tell you that right now," Wyche said. "If I'm a distraction every time I talk to a banquet or give out a blanket, 
For quality, comfort, cost and convenience, no other rental truck can move you like a Hertz Penske truck. 
Hertz

Best 
Best Truck Deal 
4311 North Mayflower Rd. 

South Bend, IN 46628-9743 219-277-0144 
2220 Toledo Road 

Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not all trucks available at all locations. All local and one-way rentals subject to Hertz Penskt standard rental qualifkattons. ©Hertz Pensh Truck teasing, Inc. 1985. 
You pay for gos, ta<es, tolls, collision damage waiver, and parking and driving violations. Drop it off at any participating Hertz Penske Trude Rental location. 
then the player who's distracted isn't professional enough to be here." 
Esiason, who in the past has disagreed with his coach on of­fensive strategy, said Wyche should "direct his energies to talking football, and football only. 
"I admire his work with the homeless and his wherewithal for issues like the locker room. What I was saying was that ev­eryone has to get a focus," Esiason said. "Sam brought it up at the meeting and handled it professionally in front of ev­eryone." 
Wyche has worked for three years to help raise money for homeless people. Last year, he barred USA Today sportswriter Denise Tom from the locker room, saying the players should not have to stand naked in front of women. 
Wyche was fined more than $27,000 by NFL c.ommissioner Paul Tagliabue for violating the league's rule guaranteeing locker room access to accred­ited reporters. 
Wyche still is critical of the commissioner, with whom he met last month at the NFL meetings in Hawaii. Wyche said Tagliabue is giving mixed sig­nals on whether there will be changes so that players do not have to stand naked before women interviewers. 
"He tells the coaches one thing, that there'll be some changes," Wyche said. "Then he turns around the next day and tells the media there'll be no changes. He actually once asked me why the rlayers have 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION I 683-1959 J 
• APPitOX 2 1/2 MII..ES NOR'I'II US 31-33 Master Mini Wat-chou~cs 
ForAll Seasons 

~ /, 12 grnctful wooden tulips-5 inclrcs tnll
37'$ 
fret stnmling-window, cuunt.:r, slttlvts 
circle tuliv colors; 
co11ntry b/11e ma11ve soft yellow wlrile red circle lcnr•rs color; walnut stain green 
3 for $12.00 + $3.00 S&H smd clreck for $15.00 or c/rarge VisafMC (plus exp date) Indiana residents 11dd 5% send name. address, city, and zip to: For All Seasons 
P.O. Box 768, Notre Dame, TN 46556 
Order by May 5 and ensure Mothers Day delivery Add your card or note and it will be included 
to take a shower after the game." 
Joe Browne, the NFL's vice president for communications, said the league would have no comment on Wyche's state­ment. But he added: "Sam's all wet on that shower remark." 
Esiason said Wyche also dis­tracted the team when, In 1989, he used the public address system to chide snowball-throwing Bengals fans for behaving like they lived in Cleveland, and by running up the score in a 61-7 victory over the Houston Oilers. 
"That's a stupid comment," Wyche said of Esiason's refer­ence to the Houston game. Wyche denies that he ran up the score. 
"Better in April than August. Now it's all out on the table. We know where things stand," Esiason said of the dispute. 
"(Wyche) is a human being. He's got his own personality and that's the only way you'd like him," defensive lineman David Grant said. "We're not robots. Football's our liveli­hood, not our life. 
Softbal-l 
continued from page 20 

Vernettl at first to end the inning. 
In the bottom half of the sixth, the Irish tacked on an­other run. Connoyer walked and was advanced to second on Stephanie Pinter's sacrifice. Folsom walked, Rachel Crossen hit into a fielder's choice and Vernettt hit an RBI single to score pinch runner Lisa Miller. 
After that, Carrie Miller turned the lights out ·in the sev­enth to pick up her first career save. 
"This was a very good soft­ball team we beat today," Boulac said. "We're becoming a good team, and as long as we hit like we did today, I think this team is capable of playing with anyone in the country." 
Notre Dame next plays a twinbill Wednesday at DePaul. 

Zorich enjoying a homecoming of sorts 
'Mom-and-pop conspiracy' brought him home to Bears 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) ­Chris Zorich grew up in a fa­therless household, but the Notre Dame defensive tackle thinks it was a bit of mom-and­pop conspiracy in heaven that put him into a Chicago Bears uniform. 
"Mom" was Zorich's irre­pressible mother, Zora, who died earlier this year at age 59, while "Pop" was George "Papa Bear" Halas. 
Zorich says on National Football League draft day, he prayed that the two would pull a few celestial strings to make sure the Bears picked him. 
"She's the one who hooked up with Papa Bear and cooked this up," Zorich said, holding up his new jersey, No. 97. He wore "50" at Notre Dame, the num­
ber  worn  on  the  Bears  by  
perennial  All-Pro  Mike  
Singletary.  

"I'm very happy and I'm sure she's very happy for me. I just wish my mom had a chance to see this. I don't think there was a day in the 21 years she raised me that I didn't tell her that I loved her." 
Zorich, an only child raised on a welfare check by a single par­ent, knew that his mother could 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) ­Brown University announced Monday that it is dropping four varsity sports in an effort to avert a projected budget deficit. 
Men's water polo, men's golf, women's gymnastics and women's volleyball will he elim­inated in the upcoming school 

Happy 21st Birthday KEVIN 

'V'ICS 
iiiiiiiiSJ4,iiiiiiiiiii 
2BUCK 
TUESDAY 
5 p.m. to 12:30 Any 7" Sandwich 
$2.00 
(2 or more for delivery) 

11l DIXIE· WAY MMTH 
rise to any occasion. She got around their tough South Side neighborhood on a bicycle, and wasn't the least bit shy about promoting her son's athletic career. 
At a high school sports ban­quet several years ago, Zorich's mother spotted Bears coach Mike Ditka. 
"She walked over to say 'Hello, I'm Chris Zorich's mother,"' Ditka recalled this week. "I said, 'My God, you're embarrassing me.' But after­ward, she dragged me over there to meet him." 
Like her son, Zora Zorich was a devoted Chicago football fan. 
Zorich returned from Notre Dame's loss to Colorado in the Orange Bowl on Jan. 2 to find his mother dead, at age 59. 
"I'm sure she'd be crying be­cause she was a very big Bears fan," Zorich said as he attended opening of the Bears' mini­camp, four days after he was chosen by his hometown team in the second round of the NFL draft. 
Zorich's main liability as a pro prospect is his size -he is 5­foot-11 and 265 pounds and has a knee injury that hobbled him part of his senior year. 
But he won the Lombardi 
year, saving about $75,000, the university said. The savings will he applied toward the $1.6 mil­lion deficit that is projected for the 1991-92 school year. 
"All departments are being asked to cut their budgets," Executive Vice President Robert 
A. Reichley said. "Essentially, we are downsizing the i!!§titu-
Trophy as the nation's out­standing college lineman and got picked on several All­American teams. He bench · presses 455 pounds and runs the 40-yard dash in 4.75. 
Ditka wanted to grab him in the first round when the team had the 22nd selection. But Bill Tobin, the player personnel chief, vetoed the idea and chose offensive tackle Stan Thomas. 
Seven defensive linemen were taken in the first 1 112 rounds, but Zorich was still available when the Bears picked again, 49th overall. 
Ditka likes his intensity and aggressiveness. 
"He's a Bear," Ditka said. 
Zorich was elated. 

"The only way I can sum it up is: if you were a young kid and had the opportunity to watch a professional team all your life and actually have the opportu­nity to play for that team," he said. 
Lake Forest is only about 50 miles north of Zorich's Vocational High School neigh­borhood, which also produced former Bear defensive great Dick Butkus and San Francisco 49er linebacker Keena Turner. 
But comparing the social and economic environments. it 


tion in an effort to eliminate a David Roach, in his first year, Roach said. "This is being done 
deficit for this year and through said the sports could continue with great reluctance. No one 
long-range planning and at the varsity club level next likes to eliminate programs." 
reallocations, bring the budget year if athletes can raise their In a statement announcing the 
permanently in line, so that own funds. cancellations, Brown took great 
deficits can be avoided in the pains to emphasize that it still 
years to come." "This was a difficult decision will offer a full complement of 
About 60 students participated and came only after hours of athletics. There will be 31 in the sports that were discussion and interviews with men's and women's sports next canceled. Athletic Director others in the department," year, 27 at the varsity level. 
,--------------------------------------------------­
Lookwhat 
alittle extracredit 
cangetyou 
• 
AnewToyotawith nothip._g down. 
And no payments for ~ days. 
Ifyou're arollege graduate or about to be, ~·ve got some extra cm:litfor you. It's the Toyota Class of '91 Financing Program. And it rould put you in a new Toyotawith no money do.vn and no payments for 90 days. That means you rould soon be cruising in any one ofour quality cars and trucks. Like the all-new affordable Thrcel, starting at just $6588~ 
So hurry and see your Toyota dealer today for all the details. And who knows, this extra cm:lit rould make you a real road<; scholar "/love what you dofor me~ ®TOYOTA 
See your Toyota dealer for a little extra credit. 
•Manufacturer's suggesled relail price. Actual dealer price may vary. Price excludes laxei, license, transportation, optional or regionally re<jUim:l equipment. 

$1.6 million deficit forces Brown University to drop four varsity sports 

Tuesday, April 30,1991 The Observer page 19 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 

Tuesday 
ACROSS 37 Lascivious look 64 Whence rahs 39 With great 
emanate
3:30-4:30 p.m. Presentation: Introduction to Resume Expert by 1 Sentry's word 
coldness 67 Funds
Paula Cook, ND Career Counselor. Career & Placement 5 Bucks, e.g. 
40 Shirley Temple &&Yawn
Conference Room. Sponsored by Career & Placement Services. 
a Japanese film: 1934 69 "L' --c'est beverage 
moi"43 Famed Swiss 
7 p.m. Film and Discussion: "Bringing the Troops Home," A 12 Graceful tree 10 Pitcher
mathematician 

part of the Analyzing the War: Tuesday Night Video Series by 13 Aleutian island 71 Deli bread 
44 Teacher of 

the Center for Defense Information. Center for Social 15 Kind of energy Heifetz 72 British sand hill Concerns. Sponsored by the Gulf Crisis Action Group. 
16 Actions taken 45 Bacchanal's cry by hot-dogs 
46 Looms or DOWN
7 p.m. Film: "Perceval." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite 19 Pivot seems 
1 "-Tor,"
Museum. 20 Muslim deity 48 Soc. entrant Anaerson play 21 Concorde, e.g. 50 Sinuous letter 2 Longfellow 
9 p.m. Film: "The Terror of Tiny Town." Annen berg 22 Lexicographer's 51 Flash flood townAuditorium, Snite Museum. abbr. 
53 Was successful 3 Like Cassius 24 Pry 55 Viper 4 "Last--in 
26 Onager 58 "South Pacific" Paris," Branda 29 Calif.'s Big-role film Tuesday 31 Type of shaving-so Projecting 50wns cream container foundation 6 Kett of comics 1 Booth 
LECTURE 
7:30p.m. "The Politics of Hace and Sex on Campus," Dinesh 35 Clock sound piece 
8 The sun, to
D'Souza, American Enterprice Institute. Washington Hall. 

Sponsored by Jacques Maritain Center. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Hoast Turkey Irish Fried Flounder Eggs Foo Yung 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Chicken Marinated Pork Loin Fried Hice 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'iM! ~N\! GEr R\~ or SU~'t GIRL<;! HAW·}
../--.• 
I~L\( P.\30VI C::OM.ETil\t{G Wt.\.L lOOI( Bf>..C~ oN WIT\-\ \'RIOE \N 0\JR OCCUN\~G iEN<'S! 
Seneca 
.. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 "Woe is me!" 10 Actress Francis et al. 11 Formerly, 
30 Gluing again 49 Winter pear 59 Descry
formerly 
32 Strainer 52 "Pomp and 61 Quote
141gnorant 
33 Butter Circumstance" 
62 Bank offering 
15 Globular 
substitutes composer 11 Five-time 34 Instruments for 54 Eminent 63 Being, in 
also-ran Granada
Erato and 
55 Peak

R-::±±'f!"'!'r=-t-::::-t:'+-::1 10 Baseball's 
Hermes 

65 Poetic Winfield 36 Joints for contraction 
56 Display 
57 Painter Guy 

-=++.~1111111 23 "Star Trek" genuflecting 
--duBois 66 Shoe width 
navigator 38 ---de oo.t.,.-+,.-+.-:-1 25 Rock, in Rauen Cologne ,.::;..ji~=+::::+.::-t:"-~-=+c::-+:-:-1 26 Bewildered 41 Loose clothing Answers to any three clues in this 8=+:±+.::-1 27 No-hands 42 Actor John: puzzle are available by touch-tone exercise 1853-1927 phone: 1·900-420-5656 (75¢ each '--'--'-'---'-..-28 Hair carrier 47 Branches minute). 
THE FAR SIDE 
.. 
CAPT. AOOIIY ADV£N1UR£ ~/2G 
"fHE RA'f·G!LN MAN CoM£nl 
6~d G!O€TH)": UNABL£ fo &AS! OOR HE:Ro Til IONS, RAY·IRUN MAkJ 15-£V£N1Uil~tY 0£FEJi1tD BY ND:S ill. HERO ANO H/5 PRR11tYZtNIII PllSSJVE­
11(]10t./!.e..5SivE puN POOI£/1.. 
I 
I I 
I 
I t Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, April 30, 1991
I 
Irish softball sweeps twinbill 
2-0 and 3-1wins over UI-C bring winning streak to ten 
By RENE FERRAN the season, but she's been com­an error and was sacrificed to Associate Sports Editor ing around lately," Boulac said. second by Kmak. Carrie Miller "It was an important win for us singled to center, but Alvarez 
Even though the weather in that we were able to hit in was thrown out at the plate cooled down Monday afternoon, bunches against her. We didn't trying to score. the Notre Dame softball team hit for power, but we were able Notre Dame wasn't fazed, remained on a hot streak. to produce a couple of runs." however. Fay got on base due 
The Irish (29-19) extended The Irish took the lead in the to another Flame error, and their win streak to 10 yester­third inning. With two outs, after Fay stole second, Christy day, downing Illinois-Chicago 2-Ronny Alvarez got a bunt sin­Connoyer promptly whacked a 0 and 3-1 in a doubleheader gle. Laurie Sommerlad followed single to left off Jen Banas (1-5) played at the Notre Dame soft­with another single, and Ruth to score Miller and Fay to give ball field. Earlier in the day, Kmak singled to left to drive in the Irish a 2-0 lead. however, it didn't appear the Alvarez. In the fifth, Ill-Chicago an­games would even be played. In the sixth, Notre Dame swered back on Sheila 
"We were hoping to get these added an insurance run as O'Connor's solo blast over the games in . . . by playing today, Megan Fay singled with one fence in left-the first home I'm amazed with this field, the away, moved to second on a run at Notre Dame softball field shape it's in after all this rain," fielder's choice, and scored on this season. said Coach Brian Boulac. Carrie Miller's double. One inning later, the Flames "These were two big wins for Combine those two runs with got runners on first and third us." the four-hit pitching of Missy with one out on starter Staci 
Another factor threatening to Linn (12-10) and the Irish had Alford (11-4), and Boulac made dampen Notre Dame's spirits win number nine in a row. the pitching change, bringing in was its opposition. The Flames "Our pitching has been hold­Carrie Miller. Miller quickly got were 24-17 coming in, and ing up strong lately," Boulac Andrea DiGrazia to ground to their ace, Leigh Podlesny (19-said. "We have the kind of second, and Connoyer threw a 10), was among the top pitchers pitching that keeps us in games, strike to Amy Folsom to nail the in the country last season in and that only helps the team." runner from third. Julie Frain strikeouts and earned run av­In the nightcap, the Irish then meekly grounded to Kathy The Observer/John Rock erage. drew first blood in the third in­Missy Linn (12-1 0) pitched a four-hitter in the opener as Notre Dame 
see SOFTBALU page 17
"(Podlesny) struggled early in ning. Alvarez reached base on took the first of two from the visiting Illinois-Chicago Flames. 
Cremins turns down interview for vacant Irish coaching position 
ATLANTA (AP) -Bobby "I was never offered the job," Rosenthal would not comment Cremins took himself out of the Cremins said Monday. "I was on any individuals who might running for Notre Dame's va­only offered to interview for it. be considered for the basket­
.. 
cant basketball coaching job But when you're Irish and ball job . Monday, deciding instead to Catholic, it's something that "There is no timetable," said remain at Georgia Tech. ~as .:'ery difficult not to look Heisler. "All he's (Rosenthal) 
Although he admitted that the mio. said is tomorrow is better than Irish job was tempting, Cremins Among other reported candi­the next day. We don't play a said, "My feeling for my players dates for the Notre Dame job game until November or and the Georgia Tech family are former Irish player and December." and friends was too strong for SMU coach John Shumate, Tech athletic director Homer 
me to pursue any other inter­Nebraska's Danny Nee and Rice said he was "elated that ests right now. Stanford's Mike Montgomery. (Cremins) has chosen to stay 
"The next step was to go to Cremins said he made his de­with us and continue to build Notre Dame for an interview. I cision Sunday night and called the program .... decided not to do that. It might Notre Dame athletic director ''I'm happy about my deci­have been too tempting." Dick Rosenthal. sion," said Cremins. "The one 
Cremins took over a Georgia "Dick Rosenthal handled this rule I have is that when I make Tech team in 1981 that had with class," said Cremins. "He a decision, 1 don't look back, I won only one Atlantic Coast wanted me to come up there for look forward. I'm looking Conference game in two years. an interview. It's a special place ahead to what's here, and it's a Four years later, he led the and I was nervous about it." challenge. Yellow Jackets to an ACC title. If he had gone for the inter­"Leaving Georgia Tech and 
Cremins reportedly was the view, would he have accepted this city at this time is not the leading candidate for the head the job? right thing for Bobby Cremins," coaching job at Notre Dame "We'll never know," he said. after Digger Phelps resigned Notre Dame sports informa­
see CREMINS/ page 16 
April15. tion director John Heisler said 
Belles tennis ends strong with 6-3 win over Kalamazoo College in final match 
Special to the Observer "I was really happy with the ated with consecutive 6-2 wins way I played," said Koscielski. in the fmal sets. 
The Saint Mary's tennis team, "It was a really nice win to end (9-10), after a season which the season with." "We played well in the begin­saw one its most competitive Sophomore Natalie Kloepfer ning, but we lost our concen­schedules ever, wrapped up its regained her composure after tration as the match pro­spring season on a successful an opening set loss to beat gressed," said Koscielski. note Tuesday, defeating Kalamazoo's Betsy Hogg, 0-6, 6-At three-doubles, Darby and Kalamazoo College, 6-3. 2, 6-2. Jennifer Kovass wrapped up the 
At number-five singles, win for Saint Mary's with a 2-6, 
At number-one singles, Saint Thayma Darby rolled over 6-1, 6-0 win. Mary's senior Sarah Mayer took Kalamazoo's Laura Rizzo, 6-2, Kalamazoo's Jackie Aurelia to 6-3. In action over the weekend, three sets before falling, 6-2, 5-Saint Mary's competed in a tri­
7, 6-3. Saint Mary's wrapped up five angular meet, beating Aquinas "I got off to a slow start, and out of six singl~s matches with College 9-0 and Wheaton then played a little better in the Mary C_osgrove s 6-1, 6-1 route College 5-4. second," said Mayer. "The, of Jennifer H?lmes. • third set was closer than it The top Samt Marys doubles With the completion of the looks like from the score." team of the Mayer sisters suf­season, Koscielski thinks next fered a 2-6, 3-6 loss to year's team will be equally suc­Saint Mary's junior Ellen Kalamazoo. cessful as this season's squad. Mayer put the Belles on the 
board with a straight set, 6-3, "We played some tough com­"We're only losing one senior 6-3 win over Kalamazoo's Billee petition," said senior Sarah (Sarah Mayer), so we should be Lightbolt. Mayer. "It was a fun match to as strong next season." said play, but we had too many un­Koscielski. "We know how 
In action at number-three forced errors." strong our competition is and singles, junior Marie Koscielski Koscielski-Cosgrove came out hopefully we'll get some fresh­outlasted Kalamazoo's Allison strong with a 7-6 win in the man who can contribute. Frye in three sets, winning 6-1, opening set, but their 
6-7, 6-3. Kalamazoo opponents retali-









