
~~,.~£~ 

---l!f--­
IU2·1t92 
eObserver ~· 
SUQUICINifNNIAL 
Saint Mar_Y-'s Coll£g£ 
NOTRE OAME•INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO.8 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND arrests cause police squabble 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­The arrest of Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer for public intoxication and disor­derly conduct has caused a squabble inside the city's police department. 
An internal memo written by an acting shift commander criticizes a police spokesman for siding with Mirer, according to a report published Tuesday. 
Mirer and linebacker Demetrius DuBose were ar­rested late Friday night as po­llee attempted to break up an ofT-campus party that attracted an estimated 500 revelers. 
After Mirer and DuBose were released on $100 bonds, police department spokesman Lt. Norval Williams drove the pair to the South Bend Tribune to give reporters their side of the story. 
"They weren't drunk," Williams said. WI think it was a case of them being at the wrong place at the wrong time." 
Williams also said Mirer asked the arresting officer for a breathalizer test, but was re­fused. 
A memo drafted by Lt. David Shock, acting shift commander during the incident, said Williams' statements violated department rules against public criticism of fellow officers "made with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity." 
Shock said Williams asked the arresting officer, Patrolman Robert Culp, to release Mirer, DuBose, and sophomore John Neal, not a football player, of Tonawanda, N.Y., a third Notre Dame student arrested at the scene. 
When Culp refused, Williams allegedly told the officer to wthink about his career, and the career of the people he ar­rested,!' Shock wrote in the memo, a copy of which was ob­tained by the Tribune. 
Shock said Williams' conver­
sation with Culp was an at­
tempt "to intimidate a rookie 
officer of this department Into 
releasing the suspects and 
dropping the charges." 
Williams declined to comment on the memo. Police have re­fused to release arrest reports on the incident. 
Officers were called to the scene after revelers refused an apartment manager's demand to disperse. 
Mirer, 21, a junior from Goshen, said he drank two beers within a two-hour period. DuBose, 20, of Seattle, said he drank two or three beers. 
Coach Lou Holtz said both players would be disciplined, although neither will be sus­pended. The coach said Mirer and DuBose "were the victims· of the situation and not the cause of it." 
The students are scheduled to appear in court Oct. 9. No other arrests were made. 
Notre Dame opens its season Saturday at home against Indi­ana. 

The Best Buys in Higher Education 
Researchers studied the relationship between undergraduate educational quality and tuition costs to come up with the best colleges for the money. Criteria for the rankings include: Student/facvlty ratio, library resources, graduation rate, and post-graduation educational and business success. 
COLLEGE AND VALUE RANKING TUITION 0 Rice University, Houston (private)------------··--------·------$7,700 0 New College of the Univ. of South Florida, Sarasota (public)---6,690 0 Trenton State University, Trenton, N.J. (pub/ic)---------·-------4,400 0 University of Virginia, Charlottesville (public}-------------------9,564 0 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (publi~)-------·----5,988 0 California Institute of Technology, Pasadena (private}--·-------14,100 0 State University of New York at Binghamton (public}---··-·----5,750 0 University of Washington, Seattle (pub/ic)----------··----------·6,075 Cl) University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (publi~)-------------· 6,580 ~University of Texas at Austin -------·-·3,840 



Fighting threatens cease-fire 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -A renewal of fierce fighting involving Yugoslav soldiers, Croatian forces and Serb mili­tants threatened on Tuesday to scuttle a new European Com­munity peace plan in Yu­goslavia. . 
The 12-nation EC called an urgent international peace con­ference on Yugoslavia in The Hague for Saturday. It named Lord Carrington, one of Bri­tain's most widely respected statesmen, as Its chief media­tor. 
Dozens of 200 cease-fire ob­servers were leaving Tuesday for Croatia. 
The Croatian stronghold of Osijek and surrounding villages in the ethnically mixed Slavonla region saw some of the heaviest clashes Tuesday. At least 16 people were killed. 
The head of Yugoslavia's col­lective federal presidency, Stipe Mesic, appealed for peace late Tuesday. "The country is facing great trials and very grave risks," Mesic, a Croat, said on TV. 
He said the presidency was asking the federal army to Im­mediately appoint officers to oversee the cease-fire jointly with Croatian officials and rep­resentatives of Serb insurgents. 
In Zagreb, the Croatian gov­
see FIGHTING I page 5 


Rice nam~d top school by Mon~y 
NEW YORK (AP) -Rice Uni­versity, which offers 3,900 stu­dents an Ivy League-caliber ed­ucation at half the price, was named the nation's best college buy Tuesday by Money Magazine. 
The magazine's second an­nual survey, appearing 1n a $3.95 "Money Guide" that will go on sale at newsstands on Sept. 9, analyzed 1,011 colleges and universities and identified 100 best values based on qual­ity of students, faculty and fa­cilities and tuition. 
The top-100 list contained 56 private schools, including some of the nation's priciest cam­puses: Yale, Stanford and the University of Chicago, where tuition exceeds $16,000 but which nonetheless were judged excellent values. 
Others, such as Trenton State College in Trenton, N.J., and Texas A&M University in Col­lege Station, Texas, were rated bargains with tuitions of less than $5,000 even for out-of­state students. 
On the cost side, the survey rated schools based on tuitions, and used out-of-state charges for public schools to make them more comparable to private institutions. 
In measuring educational quality, the survey used such indicators as student-to-faculty ratio, average Scholastic Apti­tude Test scores, library re­sources, graduation rates, per­centage of graduates who earn doctorate degrees, and the number of graduates who make Standard & Poor's Executive­College Survey of 70,000 top corporate executives. 
Rice, this year's winner, charges students $7,700 in tu­ition plus $4,900 in room and board, about half the cost of most Ivy League colleges, thanks largely to a $1 billion endowment. Until 1965, it charged no tuition. 
The Houston-based school was founded in 1891 by cotton baron William Marsh Rice, whose dream was to establish a first-rate college open to all re­gardless of means. Rice's engi­neering, business and science programs rank among the na­tion's best. 
Cooper Union, rated tops last year in the magazine's first survey, dropped out of the top 100 this year. The New York City-based school remains an "unbeatable bargain" at $300 a year, the magazine said, but offers degrees only in art, ar­chitecture and engineering. 
Harvard failed to make the list because it "declined to dis­close data ... needed to perform our calculations," according to the magazine. 
Harvard spokesman Peter Costa said the university has a policy against releasing average SAT scores and other data that 
was asked for in the survey. Besides Rice, other schools in this year's top 10 were: 
• 
New College of The Univer­sity of South Florida, Sarasota: 500 students pay low state tu­ition rates-$1,675 for resi­dents, $6,690 for out-of-staters -but private foundation money helps keep student-fac­ulty ratio to just 10-1. 

• 
Trenton State: offers rolling green campus with lakes and small classes for just $3,079 for residents, and $4,400 for non­residents. 

• 
University of Virginia, Charlottesville: The school that Thomas Jefferson founded stresses liberal arts even for engineering and architecture majors. Out-of-state tuition is $9,564. 

• 
University of Illinois at Ur­bana-Champaign: tuition Is $2,236 for residents, $5,988 for non-residents. Boasts a 7.7 million volume library, bested only by Harvard and Yale. 

• 
California Institute of Tech­nology, Pasadena: A high-pow­ered student body, witt mean SATs of 1,410, and "top-notch" faculty make this private school a top value despite $14,100 tu­ition. 

• 
State University of New York at Binghamton: 71 per­cent of students are in the top 


see COLLEGES I page 7 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A name makes all the difference 

My freshman year of high school, I couldn't wait for third period. I'd bolt out of gym class, grab a seat in 
Paige Smoron 

the front row of my 
Assistant Accent

French class, smile 
Editor

brightly at Madame, and know that, for the next 50 minutes, I wasn't Paige anymore. I was "Fifi.." Quite frankly, my given name is inadequate, its main drawbacks being: a.) When singing the Name Game, it doesn't form any obscene words (like "Chuck"), and b.) The inevitable confusion between myself and Nicolette Sheridan's character "Paige" on "Knots Landing" (the Domino's delivery man told me once that I resembled her greatly. I tipped him $10). The bad associations with my name go back to second grade. My teacher, Miss Allendorf, was in the unfortunate habit of saying, "Open your Phonics books and turn to page ... " at which point I would jump up from my flash cards and shriek, "WHAT?", to the riotous delight of Danny O'Connor, who made a point of calling me "Blank Paige" in a snide voice, and was incidentally also famous throughout the primary grades for never cleaning his ears. Ever since, I've been fascinated with names, and the apparently advanced senses of humor of the parents responsible for many of them. How can a loving couple bring a beautiful new life into this world, and then shoot all his chances to hell by christening him "Englebert"? Poor Englebert will be de­pantsed throughout his formative years with alarming frequency. Some families are very systematic about the naming process. I have a friend who was named alphabetically. His brothers and sisters were Arlene, Bill, Carol, etc. Mercifully, his parents decided to forego "I," or Jason might have been "Izzy." On "The Bold and the Beautiful," all the characters, be they bold or be they beautiful (and to confuse viewers even more, some are both), are named after elements of nature: Thorn, Ridge, Storm ... I'm so afraid Brook will name her (illegitimate) baby "Sapling." According to figures I've recently fabricated, your name can make you or break you. How many football captains have we had that were named "Dewey"? How many porn stars have been named "Edwina"? (If you answered more than two to that last one, I'm scared.) Lately I've been thinking about dropping my last name altogether, and going solo with "Paige." Maybe then I'll be qualified to follow in the footsteps of Cher, or -do I dare make the comparison? -Tiffany. It might take a while to make the name change legal, and to assuage my Grandma Smoron. She's indignant over the flagrant effacement of the family name, which has apparently been around since the twelfth century, originally meaning "keeper of many yaks." Until then, you can just call me Fifi. 
Today's Staff News Accent Paul Pearson Paige Smoron Alicia Reale Gerry Hamilton Sports John O'Brien Jennifer Marten Pat Moran Graphics VIewpoint Brendan Regan Brian Stalter Scoreboard Guy Loranger JimVogl 
Production Lisa Bourdon Angie Bates 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
The Observer Wednesday, September 4, 1991 
FORECAST: 
Mostly sunny and 
pleasant today. 
Highs around 80. 
Partly sunny 
Thursday. Highs 
751o 80. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Athens 82 66 Atlanta 81 67 Berlin 81 59 Boston 78 51 Chtcago 86 69 Dallas·Ft.Worth 89 73 Denver 78 56 Detro~ 86 59 Honolulu 90 75 Houston 90 74 Indianapolis 89 61 London 79 61 Los Angeles 86 66 Madrid 91 64 Mtarri Beach 86 77 Moscow 63 43 New York 79 57 Paris 77 57 Philadwhla 82 55 Ronne 82 63 St. Louis 96 74 San Francisco 73 57 Seattle 75 52 South Bend 86 69 Tokyo 90 75 Washington. D.C 83 61 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

New charges against Imelda Marcos 
• MANILA, Philippines-The government filed new fraud charges against Imelda Marcos today, alleging she illegally withdrew $25 million from a government bank branch for personal expenses while her husband was president. The action came a day after Mrs. Marcos said she was willing to return to the Philippines for trial on earlier fraud charges, but only if she received assurances that the body of her husband eventually would be allowed back. President Aquino announced in July that the 5-year-old ban on Mrs. Marcos entering the country was being lifted so she could return for trial. But she continued to bar the return of the body of former President Ferdinand Marcos. Marcos and his family fled to Hawaii shortly after a popular uprising toppled him from power in 1986. 

NATIONAL 
Director Frank Capra js dead 
• LOS ANGELEs-Director Frank Capra, the Sicilian immigrant whose classic movies reflected the hope, vigor and individualism of the American spirit, died yesterday at his home in California. He was 94. Capra, whose film career stretched back to the silent era, won three Academy awards. His most important postwar fJ.lm, "It's a Wonderful Life," profoundly influenced Steven Spielberg and others in a new generation of filmmakers. 

OF INTEREST 
• 
Senior placement kickoff night will be held from 6 to 7 tonight in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. The time has been moved to accommodate those seniors going on the Chicago trip. Information will be distributed on Placement Services, Graduate School Night, Liberal Arts internship program and more. For more information contact Jeff Roberts at 284-4565. 

• 
Best buddies: There is a mandatory organizational meeting tonight at 7 at the Center for Social Concerns. If you have any questions call Julie at 283-1291. 

• 
Altar servers are needed for Sacred Heart Church. Interested students can call Peg Houk (239-7091) or Steven Carozza (283-4197) sometime this week to sign up. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 4 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 169.62 Million 217.17 ... 1.91 S&P COMPOSITE 396.64 4 3.58 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,055.23 • 29.07 

PRECIOUS METALS GOLD+ $ .40 to $355.60/oz. SIT..VER-& .2¢ to $3.95/oz. 
Time. Newsweek yse same photo 
• NEW YORK-Rival newsweeklies Time and Newsweek wound up with the same photo on their covers this week, after choosing similar photos a week earlier. This week, Time and Newsweek each used a photo of people celebrating the breakup of the Soviet Union beneath a paint-spattered poster of Lenin. Newsweek Managing Editor Ken Auchincloss said people there can recall only one other time when both magazines used the same photo on their covers-an A.P. photo of the Marine barracks bombed in Beirut in October 1983. A third newsweekly, U.S. News & World Report, has used an advertising campaign that cast Time and Newsweek as clones of each other. But U.S. News alsiJ used the photo of the crowd and the poster -on the table of contents page. 


INDIANA 

Man stabbed in South Bend 
• 
SOUTH BEND, Ind.-A man arrested for the stabbing death of a former central Indiana resident was being held without bond yesterday pending a court ap­pearance and the filing of formal charges, police said. Patrick O'Banion, 26, of South Bend, was arrested Friday in the slaying of Victor Stewart, 33, formerly of Windfall, a Tipton County town about 10 miles southeast of Kokomo. Stewart was stabbed just before noon Friday on the front lawn of a westside home where he had been staying the past three days. The fight was described as a domestic disturbance but no other details were being made public. 

• 
The Juggler wants anyone interested in poetry, fiction, art or anything else creative. Come see us at our first meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Juggler Office, 3rd floor of LaFortune. 

• 
Shenanigans, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's singing and dancing ensemble will hold try outs for new members tonight and tomorrow. Sign up for audition times at 309 Fisher Hall. 

• 
Volunteer tutors are needed for elementary and high school Native American students on Tuesdays, from 6­


7:15 p.m. Sept. 10 thru Dec. 10 in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. An orientation meeting will be held Sunday from 4 to 5 p.m. in room 328 Madeleva. If you are unable to make the meeting, call Michael Cox at 234-1048. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1929: Eight killed as Transcontinental Air Transport downed by lightning over New Mexico. 

• 
In 1936: Popular front representing Basques and Catalonians replaces Giral Cabinet in Spain. 

• 
In 1945: Reports indicate that A-bomb fallout in Hiroshima is still killing at least 100 a day. 

• 
In 1957: Militia bars nine blacks from Uttle Rock white high school on governor's orders. 

• 
In 1964: Chilean moderate Eduardo Frei Montalva chosen president over People's Front candidate Salvador Allende. 


Wednesday, September, 4, 1991 

The Observer/Sean Farnan 

Peter Bottini stops at a campus bench for a moment to leaf through some of his papers Tuesday. 
Thumbing through papers 
Fire levels North Carolina plant; 25 killed, 40 injured 
HAMLET, N.C. (AP) -Fire engulfed a chicken processing plant Tuesday, creating an in­ferno in which panicked work­ers were trapped by blocked or locked doors, witnesses said. Authorities reported 25 people were killed and 40 iniured. 
"They were screaming 'Let me out!"' said passer-by Sam Breeden. "They were beating on the door." 
Witnesses said a fryer at the Imperial Food Products plant caught fire about 8:30 a.m. The company makes chicken nuggets and marinated chicken breasts sold at fast-food restaurants and grocery stores. 
The 11-year-old plant had never been inspected by state safety officials, said Charles Jeffress, assistant commis­sioner of the North Carolina labor department. 
"I'm sure that there are many others" that have not been In­spected, said Jeffress. He said the state does not have enough inspectors to get to every plant. lie said the state never received a safety complaint about Imperial plant. 
Hence Hoffman, a spokeswoman for the state De­partment of Crime Control and Public Safety, said 25 were con­firmed dead by late afternoon. Hospitals reported at least 40 injured. 
The interior of the building was gutted. 
A woman who was in the canteen said people rushed in yelling, "Fire! Fire!" The door from the canteen to the outside was locked and a man had to break the door open so those Inside could escape. 
Carolyn Rainwater, a plant worker, said she heard people screaming and "I saw a big puff of black smoke and I started running for the back 
see FIRE I page 4 

-------------~ 
The Observer page 3 


Low t-shirt sales dominates HPC's first meeting of year 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
The apparent lack of sales of 1991's The Shirt is causing a stir at the Student Union Board (SUB). 
Matt Bomberger, chairman of the SUB AnTostal committee spoke to the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) Tuesday about the sluggish sales, urging the presidents to go door to door, if necessary, to move the shirts. 
SUB, which currently has a surplus of 5,000 to 6,000 shirts, kicked off a massive advertising campaign yesterday to alleviate what Bomberger alluded to as poor support by the dorm presidents. 
HPC remained relatively calm about the prospect of so many unsold shirts and the subse­quent $46,000 debt this prob­lem would cause. "He [Bomberger] is just scared," said Carroll Hall President Tom Leahy, "you can't compare last year to this year because we don't have as much time [before the home opener] to sell shirts." 

What's 7 Across? 
Dillon Hall President Anthony Coury thought poor planning might be behind The Shirt's slump. "It's very possible for two large groups like SUB and HPC to work together, but this project got off to a bad start," he said. 
Coury also feels the time con­straint is to blame: "The Shirt is the last thing on my mind. With Freshman Orientation, the Dillon Pep Rally, as well as academics and extra-curricular activities, I don't have an abun­dance of time to go out and sell shirts." 
The dorm presidents re­mained positive as a whole, however, about the potential for the fund raiser now that section leaders have been elected and hall governments can put forth a concerted effort. As such, neither Leahy nor Coury are worried about selling all their shirts. Said Leahy, "I expect this to be a big week for sales." 
Coury added, "They'll be sold out before January 1st, that's all that really matters." 
Former ND head men's bas­ketball coach Digger Phelps was the main speaker Tuesday as HPC began its 1991 -92 ses­sion. He was seeking support from HPC for Greenwood Es­tates, a Wisconsin based camp for the disabled. The Logan Center sends many of Its pa­tients to the camp at a cost of $425 per patient each week. 
Phelps talked at length about the virtues of the camp, and gave a slide show presenting Images of campers engaged In such activities as hayrides, kickball, and slng-alongs. He then encouraged each dorm to sponsor a camper from the Lo­gan Center for a week at the estates. "A week for them at the camp Is like a lifetime for you or me," he said. 
When Digger Phelps coached the Notre Dame men's basket­ball team from 1970 to 1991, his involvement with the Logan Center In South Bend was as much of a constant as the green carnation he wore on game days. Since retiring last spring, he's had even more time to devote to charitable organi­zations, including those in the public relations area. 
The Obaerwtr/Sean Farnan 


Matt Bulger is wrapped up in his crossword puzzle as he sits by the Peace Memorial fountain Tuesday. 
Pinochet jokes about discovered graves 
SANTIAGO, Chile (AP) ­Former President Augusto Pinochet has angered the civil­ian government with his flip­pant remarks about the ex­humation of hundreds of re­ported victims of his military regime. 
Asked late Monday about the fact that some victims were buried two to a grave, Pinochet responded: "What a big sav­ings." 
Workers on Monday had be­gun digging up unmarked 
graves at Santiago's General Cemetery, where more than 120 bodies were buried shortly after the bloody 1973 coup that brought Pinochet to power. The exhumations were ordered by two judges at the request of the Roman Catholic Church. 
When reporters asked Pinochet to comment on the discovery of the corpse of a missing leftist leader, he replied in a sarcastic tone, "My con­gratulations to the body searchers." 
Happy 

21st 
9])70CB[] WJOJCD[]CB 
You don't have to sneak your beer to the games now! 
Asked whether he continues to maintain that his military regime did not kidnap and kill its opponents, he said "There was an Irregular war that was well-planned by the KGB." 
The elected government of President Patricio Aylwin, which took office from Pinochet last year after 17 years of military rule, responded angrily. 
"The government is very shaken and astonished by the way in which Gen. Pinochet re­ferred to the painful fact that two bodies were burled In the same tomb," said Enrique Cor­rea, Aylwin's spokesman . "These cruel remarks offend the sensitivities of relatives and of the entire country." 
In two days of digging, 18 sets of remains have been ex­humed from the cemetery's Yard 19, a section where corpses were burled anony­mously by the military regime, according to human rights groups. Some of the bodies re­portedly were buried together. 
None of the bodies have been officially identified, but rela­tives said one of the victims was Bautista van Schouwen, a leader of the Leftist Revolu­tionary Movement who was ar­rested shortly after the coup. 





VivA 

.......................... 

. 
•
• 
. 
•

,ARIEL .
• •
•
. 
•
8:10 p.n1. \Vashington Hall .•• 
lidti.<: SH Sllldc.:nr,f$10 \on-Srudc:nr' • <II .1ibhlc a1 1hc •• l.:il'onunc Ccnrc:r llo\ Oftic:c: • 
Ariel is a r.alenred Russian Pop Pianist who has enamored audiences around 1he t-ountry. Ifis performanc:es inwrporatc na1ivc Russian 
•wries with cnmempornr;, lrddilional and ori~inal piano pieces. Ali.S. ci1izen fot five years, Ariel has followed his dream to brin~

• 
the magic and wonder of 1hc piano 10 America. 

..................................... 
page 4 The Observer Wednesday, September 4, 1991 
"They're beating all the odds." said. "But there were plenty of cause. 30,000-square-foot plant. It's The officer was trying to con­doors that were open." Asked if there had been pre­fueled by natural gas. 
Fire 
trol a growing crowd of worried He said he believed the build­vious problems with the fryer, O'Neil Patrick said he was relatives, friends and curiosity­ing has nine doors. "Certain Roe said: "Nothing more than walking near the plant and saw
continued from page 3 
seekers. doors are locked at certain natural breakdowns and main­another man trying to helpdoor." The door was blocked by Several witnesses said em­times," he said. "I can't tell you tenance. Nothing that we be­workers. He said only one door 
a delivery truck and the 
ployees couldn't escape because which doors were locked, if any lieve would start a fire." was open and that was in theworkers had to wait for it to be of locked doors. were locked." Fuller said the person who front of the building. 
moved, she said. 
Brad Roe, operations man­The State Bureau of Investi­reported the fire said an explo­He said he could hear people"When I arrived, I didn't have ager and son of owner Emmett gation is investigating. Hamlet sion had occurred, but that has screaming on the other side of a hope for anybody coming out of Roe, said he did not know if Fire Chief David Fuller said au­not been confirmed. locked door and inside the truck here," said a police officer who doors were locked. thorities are looking into the The fryer is 26 feet long and that was backed up to a loading
would not give his name. 
'I can't tell you right now," he deep-fat fryer as a possible situated in the middle of the dock door. 


-~--~~--~~~------------------------~-­
Gorbachev, Yeltsin press Soviet congress for change 
MOSCOW (AP) -Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin urged lawmakers on Tuesday to approve sweeping changes in the Soviet government, and Gorbachev warned Congress that it might cease to exist if it failed to accept radical change. 
Meanwhile, Yellsin called for an end to unriP-re-round nuclear 
tests and sought to reassure the world that Soviet nuclear weapons would all be moved in­side the huge borders of his Hussian republic, controlled 
Fulbright Competition 1992-1993 

Seniors Interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad are inuited to an informational meeting with aduisor, John Welle(7204) on Wednesday, September 4th at 7:30 p.m. in room 118 O'Shaughnessy. 
centrally and kept from the hands of "hawks" and "terrorislo;." 
Even as Gorbachev and the Congress of People's Deputies wrestled with the question of what would replace the old So­viet Union, ethnic tensions flared along its southwestern fringe. Clashes between demon­strators and oolice were re­
ported in Georgia, a strike was called in Azerbaijan to protest Sept. 8 elections there, and eth­nic Hussians and Ukrainians demonstrated in Moldavia. 

The Soviet president, seeking to sweep away hard-line oppo­nents of reform, seemed intent on getting rid of the Commu­nist-dominated Congress as part of his plan to reshape the country and its governmental structures. 
Gorbachev, Yeltsin and the )p,aders of nine other reoublics on Monday had put before the Congress a broad proposal to strip the Kremlin of most pow­ers and transfer them to the republics, while first concen-


Fighting 
continued from page 1 
ernment said it was instructing its Defense Ministry to imple­ment a cease-fire, ban the movement of its troops without prior notification and demobi­lize reserve units. 
Happy 21st 
(CC!!rnrft~ 
Love, Mom, Dad, Ali, Will & Y Mals! 
trating power in a State Council made up of the Soviet president and leaders of the republics. 
Emerging from the second day of the three-day session, Gorbachev issued a stern warning, telling reporters that if lawmakers didn't approve his proposal, then "the people will reject this Congress.... The Conl!ress will have exhausted its usefulness." 
But Gorbachev also gave a sop to the lawmakers, with­drawing a proposal for a new, smaller legislature with 20 rep-
More than 300 people have been killed in fighting in Croa­tia since it declared indepen­dence June 25. Many of Croa­tia's 600,000 Serbs, 12 percent of the republic's population, are unwilling to live in an inde­pendent Croatia. 
AP photographer Franz Pammer reported that Osijek, 140 miles east of Zagreb, 
resentatlves from each republic -which would have given the six predominantly Muslim re­publics more representatives than Russia, Byelorussia and the Ukraine. 
Instead, he suggested reform­ing the Supreme Soviet -~he . 542-member standing legisla­ture elected bv the Con~rress from its membership. 
Gorbachev also put off a vote on independence for the Baltics, which he originally said might occur at the session. 
echoed with constant subma­chine-gun and light artillery lire Tuesday. The army blocked a road to Vukovar, 18 miles to the southeast, he said. 
He saw two air force planes dropping bombs on neighboring Bilje village, a last Croat stronghold in the Baranja area stretching north of Osijek to­ward Hungary. 
In the town of Beli Manastir, Serbs claimed to have taken Bilje and Mece, the last two Croat-held villages in Baranja. 
Wednesday, September 4, 1991 
RIT president retires in storm of controversy 
HOCIIESTEH, N.Y. (AP)-The president of Hochester Institute of Technology announced his retirement Tuesday, live months after his work for the CIA and ensuing revelations galvanized the campus. 
M. Hichard Hose, 58, said he planned to leave next spring, in part because he was concerned that debate over CIA influence on campus overshadowed other school activities. 
"We run the very real risk of losing institutional momentum," Hose said in his annual state of the institute address. "I don't want the current controversy that is symbolized in me to hinder the significant progress that is possible for this university." 
Hose, RIT president since 1979, said his decision coin­cides with retirement plans made two years ago. He didn't disclose future plans. 
HIT board Chairman Thomas Gosnell said the board would regretfully accept Rose's re­tirement, which Is effective June 1, 1992. 
"Hich's leadership has signif­icantly advanced HIT to a posi­tion among the world's finest universities," Gosnell said. 
Jack Smith, a school spokesman, said later that Hose was resigning voluntarily. 
For decades the CIA has had ties to HIT, which specializes in photography and the evolving field of imaging science, which combines photography and electronics. 
But this past April a furious debate over the relationship erupted when Hose disclosed he was spending a four-month sabbatical at the agency's headquarters in Langley, Va. 
It then came to light that the school gets more than $1 mil­lion every year from the CIA for research. 
Further outcries were raised when a newspaper reported about two leaked documents: a report titled "Japan: 2000" that described Japanese as "amoral, manipulative and controlling," and a 1985 memorandum suggesting the CIA had a hand shaping school curriculum. 
School officials said the doc­uments were only drafts and were never approved. 
The Observer page 5 

~-~··. 
Pressing palms The Obserwr!Se.1 Farnan A member of the American Red Cross meets a potential member at Student Activities Night Tuesday. 
AP 
-~--·· 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 4, 1991 



Bush: Parents should help improve education 
LEWISTON, Maine (AP) ­President Bush, delivering a troubling back-to-school mes­sage, said Tuesday that Amer­ica's education system is failing and "we must blame ourselves for betraying our children." 
"The ringing school bell sounds an alarm, a warning to all of us who care about the state of American education" Bush said. "Every day brings new evidence of crisis." 
Bush pressed his crusade to improve schools during a brief stop here before returning to Washington at the end of his 29-day Maine vacation. 
Bush's speech marked the beginning of a new emphasis on education, the environment and other domestic issues likely to be major themes of the coming election year. 
Democrats, frustrated by polls showing Bush with high ratings on foreign policy matters, hope to exploit what they believe is the president's weakness on problems at home, such as the 
Baltics apply for U.N. membership 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­The three Baltic republics, which were extinguished as in­dependent nations by the Soviet Union a half-century ago, on Tuesday applied for full 
U.N. membership as free countries. 
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which were forcibly annexed in 1940, could be seated as early as this month to take part in the 46th General Assembly. 
On Tuesday, the formal appli­cations were submitted to Sec­retary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar by French Ambassador Jean-Bernard Merimee and British Ambassador Sir David Hannay. 
Representatives of the Baltic states were not present, but are expected to participate in membership consultations next week. 
"This is a big and a historic step," Hannay told reporters after handing over the applica­tions to the secretary-general. 
But Hannay and Merimee said that British and French support for the Baltics' applications did not necessarily mean that Britain would support possible 
U.N. applications by other former Soviet republics. 
In order for a country to join the United Nations, the 15­member Security Council must approve an application and two-thirds of the General Assembly must endorse it. France is president of the council this month and the ap­plication process is expected to be expedited. 
The Soviet Union holds veto power on the Security Council but a spokesman for the Soviet mission to the United Nations, Aleksander Denisov, said Moscow would not block the Baltics' application. 
"On the contrary, we will support it," he said in a tele­phone interview. 
The Soviet Union already has indicated it wlll let the Baltics go their own way, but Soviet lawmakers have not yet ap­proved the legislation recogniz­ing their independence. 
The former Soviet republics of Byelorussia and the Ukraine have declared their indepen­dAnr.P.. 


·-----------------------­

Mandatory Organizational Meeting Tonight! 9/4/91 7pm at the C.S.C. 
I I I 
I 

faltering economy and the lack of health insurance for many Americans. 
Democratic Party Chairman Ronald Brown said the presi­dent's speech was intended to open Bush's 1992 re-election campaign and "redeem George Bush's embarrassing failure to live up to his lofty promise to be our education president." 
"George Bush and his White House must match rhetoric with real action and substitute direct presidential responsibil­ity for the same old photo op­portunity," Brown said in a statement. "Campaign pledges don't cut the mustard when our economic future depends on smart kids and a skilled work force." 
Rep. Tom Andrews, D-Maine, said it was good that the presi­dent was drawing attention to the problem, but that his pro­posals don't go far enough. Bush, he said, should shift mil­lions of dollars from the defense budget into education. 
-·' 
><W•·····--M~·· 

Catching up 

President Bush 
"Which is more important to our national security today ­another B-2 bomber or a nation of well-educated young people?" Andrews asked. 
Maine Gov. John McKernan Jr., a Republican, introduced Bush to an audience of parents, students and educators who filled Lewiston High School gym. 
"Much of what the president has tried to do on the domestic agenda has been overlooked" because of dramatic events around the world, McKernan said. 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 


Senior Cyndi Toomey enjoys the brief afternoon sunshine Tuesday as she peruses The Observer outside the South Dining Hall. 
$5.00 OFF Kryptonite Bikcz Lock 
(Rczdcrcrm bcrforcr Scrpt. 10. 1991) 
Bush told the audience that parents and students, in par­ticular, must get involved in the campaign to improve education. 
He noted that the verbal scores of high school seniors declined to an all-time low on the Scholastic Aptitude Test. "These numbers tell us: Our schools are in trouble. 
"But before we point fingers, assign blame, how many of us demand more of children, our­selves, our schools? Survey after survey suggests too many parents and students remain unconcerned, unconvinced that the state of their own schools should worry them." 
Bush said: "The truth is, all our children are at risk.... If our schools fail, we can't blame Washington. We can't blame Augusta," the capital of Maine. 
"We must blame ourselves for betraying our children." 
Bush and the nation's gover­nors have adopted a package of lofty education goals to be achieved by 2000. The strategy calls for American students to be first in the world in science and math, two subjects where they rank last among industri­alized nations. 
To accomplish the goals, Bush has proposed creation of national standards in English, math, science, history and geography, and a system of national examinations to mea­sure performance. 
Bush told parents they are expecting too much of teachers. 
"We expect them to act as social workers and psycholo­gists and family counselors," he said. "At the same time, we ask too little of our students. We shy away from demanding excellence and accountability." 
Moreover, he said parents must accept the blame for de­clining test scores. 
"We haven't taken the time to read to our kids, to talk with them, to teach them the art of communication, how to think, how to write, how to speak clearly. What happens at home really matters." 


Teachers spend first day of school on picket lines 
(AP) -Teachers in Pennsylva­nia, Rhode Island and Michigan spent the first day of school on the picket lines Tuesday, and more than 35,000 students stayed home. 
In Dallas, meanwhile, more than 2,000 high school students and supporters marched on school district headquarters Tuesday in a day-long protest of teacher layoffs. Three students were arrested when a police officer was hit in the head by a bottle, Dallas police spokesman Ed Spencer said. 
"If we're out of school, we're not getting an education. If we're in school, we're not get­ting an education either," Jenni Sandlin, 16, who skipped classes to attend the demon­stration. 
But a strike was averted in Seattle when teachers voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to ac­cept a contract offer one day before classes were to open in the state's largest school dis­trict. 
The district's 2,800 instruc­tors agreed to a 3.65 percent raise that could increase to 5 percent with incentive payment. The average teacher salary last year was $32,000. 
Wages and benefits were the main issues in many strikes. 
About 8,100 students showed up for class in Pawtucket, R.I., but were dismissed after two hours when teachers rejected what the School Committee said was its final offer. The commit­tee said it and the union were $12 million apart on a three­year pact. 
Are you looking for committed 

Chr. friendships? If you saw us at Activities Night or if you missed us, come to the Introductory Session before our meeting: 
®~~@ [p)o[J@o [f{J@~[f@ @@[J@@ ~@@[J@Ii ~Cfi)@] ~~@@[f ~@!¥@rr\l(JJ)Cfi)@ 
WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO MEETING YOU! 
is looking for an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due Friday, September 6. 
Wednesday, September 4, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Saddam refuses to allow major opposition parties 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -After to Saddam's Arab Baath promising to end one-party rule Socialist Party. in Iraq, Saddam Hussein has The text of the law, as re­released a law that bars his leased by Iraqi News Agency on main opponents -Shiite Tuesday, was signed by Saddam Muslims and Kurds -from as chairman of the ruling forming political parties. Revolutionary Command Coun­
cil, but bore no date. The 

The law, which technically agency, monitored in Nicosia, ends 23 years of one-party rule said the law would take effect and was adopted with much when published in the Official fanfare by the National Assem­Gazette, but didn't say when bly on July 4, was amended last that would occur. month to include bans on par­ties that pose any real challenge After failed uprisings by Shi­
'Cheerleader hitman' trial results in guilty verdict 
HOUSTON (AP) -A jury Tuesday convicted a woman of trying to hire a hitman to kill the mother of her daughter's cheerleading rival to further her own daughter's cheerlead­log career. 
Wanda Holloway, 37, of 
Channelview, could face up to 
life in prison. 
Holloway was convicted of trying to hire someone to kill Verna Heath. In closing argu­ments earlier Tuesday, prose­cutors saip Holloway believed Heath's daughter, Amber, would be so distressed she would drop out of competition. 
The defense had attacked the 
credibility of the state's star 
witness. 
Holloway burst into tears after she was convicted on the solicitation of murder charge. Helatives and friends sur­rounded her, yelling at mem­bers of the media to stay away. 
Holloway also faced an at­tempted aggravated kidnapping charge, but no verdict on that charge was announced. Attor­neys on both sides said they couldn't explain the circum­stances of the jury's decision because of a judge's gag order. 
Earlier Tuesday, Prosecutor Casey O'Brien replayed several segments of tapes of conversa­tions secretly recorded for po­llee by Holloway's former brother-in-law, Terry Harper, the state's star witness. 
"You listen to that tape. You don't hear fear in her voice. You hear hate. She's consumed with hate," O'Brien said. 
On the tape, Harper asked Holloway: "If you don't want to do It, I'll understand." 
"It's not that I don't want to do it. I just have to get the money," Holloway replied. 
O'Brien said Holloway's con­tention that she was afraid of Harper or the hitman was ludi­crous. The prosecutor said she was so intent on getting Harper to find a hitman she obtained such details about Heath as the make of her car and license­plate numbers. 
But defense attorney Stan 
Schneider told jurors the state 
did not prove its case against 
Holloway. 
"Terry Harper is unbeliev­able. He's a liar," Schneider said, adding that none of the other witnesses corroborated Harper's testimony. 
"Without Terry Harper, Wanda Holloway is innocent. They can't substantiate Terry Harper," Schneider said. 
Defense attorneys said Hol­loway was framed by her ex­husband, Tony Harper, who is Terry Harper's brother. Terry Harper's estranged wife, Marla Harper, testified t}lat he hoped to get back into the family's gooa graces ny ne1pmg 1ony 
win custody of his children from Holloway. The two divorced in 1980. 
Marla Harper said she heard her husband talking to his brother about the scheme in a New Year's Eve telephone con­versation. She said Terry Harper bragged that he would become rich and famous from the deal. Tony Harper testified that he and his brother have been approached by at least 20 filmmakers about selling the rights to the story. 
Terry Harper has been mar­ried seven times, held 15 jobs during the past three years and has a string of minor convic­tions. 
Tony Harper testified that he never wanted full custody of his children, but sought a modifi­cation of the custody agreement because he wanted the children to get counseling Holloway was reluctant to provide. 

ites in southern Iraq and Kurds in the north following his defeat in the Gulf War, Saddam promised political reforms.But no real freedoms have material­ized. 
The Kurds agreed to a cease­fire after extracting promises that Saddam would grant the 
3.5 million-member ethnic mi­nority an autonomous home­land. But talks between the government and the Kurds have broken down over guarantees 
Working hard 
the government is unwilling to make. 
In the south, Saddam's forces ruthlessly crushed the Shiites, who make up 55 percent of the 17 million population but have few rights under a government dominated by Sunni Muslims like Saddam. 
The new law includes articles banning the formation of a party "based'on atheism, reli­gion, racism or ethnicity." 
It also bars creation of "any form of a political militia or any other paramilitary force," and prohibits possession of "firearms, explosives or military equipment of any kind." 
These conditions rule out le­galizing the Kurdish and Shiite factions opposed to Saddam's regime and prevent formation of new parties among these ethnic groups. 
The new law also states that no political party, other than the Baath, will be allowed into the "armed forces, the police or any other security agency." 
The Obaerver!Sean Farnan 


Peter Musty and Vic Saavedra practice drafting skills as they work in the Architecture Building Tuesday. 
Nation's first public school to be run jointly with private company opens 
MIAMI BEACH, Fla. (AP) ­The nation's first public school run jointly with a private com­pany opened for business Tues­day. Its principal says new teaching methods ·there could "revolutionize education in America." 
South Pointe Elementary's 550 pupils will get no grades and the classrooms have com­puters instead of desks. 
The school, located in a low­income neighborhood, will test whether the techniques can drastically improve education in the United States. 
Dade County has teamed up with Education Alternatives, Inc., a private Minneapolis­based company, to run the school. 
The EAI system stresses indi­vidual instruction, parental participation and getting the children involved in their own education. Teachers are guides instead of lecturers. 
"We're taking the teacher off center stage and putting the child on center stage," said Principal Patricia Parham. "We feel like what we're going to do is going to revolutionize educa­tion in America." 
EAI Chairman John Golle said schools in Egan, Minn., and Pleasant Valley, Ariz., have been using his company's teaching methods for several years. EAI claims pupils at those schools have advanced 1 1/2 grade levels per year. 
But they're suburban private schools. South Pointe is a public school in an area where about 95 percent of the families qualify for public assistance. 
The children, ages 3 to 12, won't be graded on how they meet universal standards. In­stead they'll be judged on how well they meet their own per­sonal goals. 
And for when they succeed, there are telephones in the classrooms so they can call their parents and tell them about it. 
The school's 35 teachers are aided by 16 student teachers from the University of Miami. The pupil-teacher ratio is about 12-to-1. 
Children, parents and teach­ers spoke enthusiastically about the program during the first day of school. 
"Everything here is differ­ent," said fourth-grader Linda Danlelyus, 10. 
"The school's like new and stuff," said classmate Travis Hernandez, 10. "The teachers don't scream at you." 
Marla Pintado, 33, who has a 5-year-old daughter enrolled at South Pointe, said her daughter would receive a better educa­tion at South Pointe than she would at a private school. 
"It's great. I'm happy for the job they're doing," Pintado said. 
Teacher Michael Bell said, "We were told by many we would never get the parents in because it's an economically deprived community, but we haven't had any trouble so far." 
South Pointe, on the southern tip of Miami Beach, was built with county funds, but will get no more public funding. EAI hopes to raise $2.4 million in private donations over five years to pay for the faculty and materials. 
Colleges 
continued from page 1 
tenth of their high school classes, class sizes average 30 students, and tuition is $2,150 for residents, $5,750 for out-of­staters. 
• 
University of Washington, Seattle: Campus boasts small classes even for freshman, and offers one of the nation's few undergraduate majors in oceanography. In-state tuition is $2,178, and $6,075 for non­residents. 

• 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: The nation's oldest state college, founded in 1795, has top chemistry, economics, English, journalism and political science programs. Tuitions: $764 for in-staters, $6,580 for out-of-staters. 




Viewpoint 
PageS Wednesday, September 4, 1991 


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 • 1991-92 General Board 
EdHor-ln.Chlef Kelley Tuthill Ma1111glng EdHor Busln-Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

N-a EdHor •••••.••••••••••••••••.Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor•..•••.••••.•..••.Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•....•. Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••.••••••••••••David Dieteman Production Managar •••••••••••.Jay Colucci Accent Editor .....•...•.•.••••.•.John OBrien Systems Manager ••••••••••••••••Mark Sloan Photo Editor .•....••.......•••.•••••.Eric Bailey OTS Director ••.••..••...•...•••..Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's EdHor •••.•••••...Emily Willen Controller•••.•.••.••...•..•••.Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor, 
I read with interest Stephen Alpert's letter from September 3, regarding the arrests of Rick Mirer and Demetrius Dubose this past weekend. I agree with Mr. Alpert's decision that the South Bend Police Force's seemingly hypocritical action is cause for concern to all of us as Notre Dame students, because as members of the South Bend Community we deserve and should expect fair and equal treatment. 
I take offense, however, at 

DOONESBURV 
Mr. Alpert's suggestion that "just becal!se the police are not themselves intelligent enough to be admitted to the University of Notre Dame .... they vent their jealousies against those who are." I fmd this statement un­fair, insulting, and disturbingly elitist. Insults will not win sympathy from the police. Ifwe expect them to respect our lifestyle, we should respect theirs. 
Juli Gillard Lewis Hall September 3, 1991 
50 I '3A/07D MIK13,"HeY, I [)()N'T 
7He Tf?i.JTH IS, fOU<S, I HAI?N'T 

Nea:J TH/5/ ATHOM&, lH&RENT's 
APPR/fCIATWtf!HATA GReAT 

fR13&, MOM /JC1jS ~LAUN~ 
IJI:AL-HOM&IS! DtU&'Ie 

AN!?I (AN &ATAU I /A/ANT!" 
eveR MAKe THAT=!!!!!!;.~~~ 
"' ~,.--,=­

Preliminary directory incomplete 
Have you been trying to call John O'Brien won't be known until the real me or my roommates? Well, phone book comes out-proba­
Guest columnist 
probably not. But even if you bly around May. were, you wouldn't be able to. to Student Residences. Of I am not alone. Everyone That's because we're not in the course, I live off-campus, so who lives off-campus is in the preliminary phone Student Residences directed me same boat. Not only don't we book-although we should be. back to the Registrar, but gave get any of our mail (that's an­
Even with all of the benefits other column in itselD but no
me the name of the woman who 
of living off-campus, it is not handles phone numbers. So I one has our phone numbers. Of perfect. Recent columnists have called her. course, they could call 411, but documented the good things "Can I give you the phone then they have to guess who's about the land 0-C, but it does number of me and my room­name the phone bill is under. have its drawbacks. The worst mates?" I asked. It's probably easier to send a of these is that it's hard for "No, you'll have to wait until letter. people to get in touch with you enroll to do that," she So until the Registrar's office you-and the Registrar's office replied. decides to start taking the in­
isn't helping much. "But I know the information formation from off-campus 
My roommates and I have . now and I would like it in the students when it is available, all known our address since March preliminary directory," I said. of us off-campus residents will 
and our phone number since "What's the preliminary di­just have to sit around in our May. In early August, I remem­rectory?" she replied. At that living rooms, drinking keg beer 
bered what a hassle it used to point I should've given up. But I after parietals, and wearing be to call friends who lived off­didn't, and I explained the con­sweaters because the air-condi­campus because their numbers cept to her. tioning is set at 32 degrees. 
weren't in the preliminary "Oh, if you fill out the forms And I suppose the people phone directory. Since I had our when you enroll, it will be in who we really want to talk to information, I figured I could there," she assured me. Finally will have our numbers, but for call up the University and tell I had g9tten through, or at least the most part the phone will be 
them, and magically it would I thought so. silent. And that might have its appear in the preliminary When I opened up the direc­advantages. But, say, someone phone book. tory last week, was mine or any actually wants to call us or send 
Sounds easy, huh? It of my roommates' information us something (like football was-NOT. in there? Not. So, because the ticket applications), they'll just 
First, I called the Registrar's office, which doesn't have to wait until May. 'flhaf.s Telecommunications Office. seem to even be aware that probably about when the offi­They directed me to the there is something called a cial directory will coRle out. Registrar. When I called the preliminary phone directory, John O'Brien is a senior Registrar, they had no clue of would not take my information American Studies major and what to do, so they directed me this summer, that information Accent editor ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 'Art is uncompromising, and life is full of compromises.' Gunter Grass 
Submit to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
ACcent 
Wednesday, September 4, 1991 Page 9 
Alumnus Matt Bannon feels the need for speed 
By Paige Smoron Assistant Accent Editor 
Last year, most of us had our eyes glued to the evening news, eager to hear about the latest developments in Operation Desert Storm. 
Alumnus Matt Bannon had a much better view 
of Iraq. From directly above. Bannon, a member of Notre Dame's class of 

1986, reported for training as a U.S. Navy pilot soon after graduation. Four weeks into his first assignment, he was flying F-14 combat missions over Iraq. wwe were flying some of the most advanced 'Our men nghters in the world," says
are Bannon. doing this day Bannon is assigned to the 
Naval Air Station Oceana based and night, around Fighter Squadron 33, which the clo k al was deployed on board uss
C • wayS America during Operation at danger tO Desert Storm. He flew more 
than forty sorties from the themseIVeS. JUSt America, which operated in because you both the Red Sea and the 
Arabian Gulf. don't read abOUt "Flying off a carrier is one of 't II t h t· the hardest things I've ever 
I a e Ime done in my life, but l love it. I doesn't mean it'S want to fly Navy fighters as 
not dangerous' ~ann~oa:. they'll let me," said 
As far back as he can remember, Bannon wanted to be a pilot. "When l was a kid, l used to enjoy old World War II movies with the Hellcats and Bearcats, but the F-14 was my dream." 
lie took steps toward realizing that dream when he entered Notre Dame on a ROTC scholarship. As a third generation Notre Dame student, he developed the values that have stayed with him through his years in the Navy. 
"There's nothing more important !than values]," said Bannon. "Without values you can't be a good leader of men, and the values I got from Notre Dame prepared me for my job in the Navy." 
Bannon spent his summer vacations as a midshipman learning about the various options available upon graduation: submarines, surface ships, naval air, and Marines. 
But he says that the naval ROTC summer indoctrination is what reinforced his plans to become a pilot. "The pilots and the air crews were more laid back, so I knew that's what I wanted," said Bannon. 
He feels that Navy pilots operate under conditions that are more difficult than those encountered by pilot~ in other services. Landing a plane on a carrier when the weather deteriorates, for instance, is " ... a whole new situation. There's only one place you can go back to -your carrier. It's not like an Air Force pilot who can head for another airfield." 

Operating off a flattop is never dull, according to Bannon. "The catapult shots are always exciting. It k,nocks the wind out of you if you don't prepare for it properly." 
Bannon concedes that he is putting his life on the line every day, in both war and peace. "Our men are doing this day and night, around the 
. world, around the clock, always at danger to themselves. Just because you don't read about it all the time doesn't mean it's not dangerous," he says, but adds that because of the pilots' professionalism and pride, it occurs without incident. He is impressed with the training and discipline of Navy pilots, as well as with the advanced technology of the F-14 Tomcats. With these combined assets, Bannon felt that the fighter planes from the Navy's carriers were up against a "paper tiger" in Iraq. " ... Everytime we went up against Iraqi planes, they turned and fled," he reported. " ... The unrelenting air strikes ensured the allied ground forces a swift victory in the liberation of Kuwait." Bannon's line of work is dangerous and challenging. But he also admits that a lot of the allure of being a Navy pilot is due to the glamour. "Being cool is important, isn't it?" 
" 

-
Navy pilot Matt Bannon, a third generation graduate of Notre Dame, flew more than 40 sorties in Operation Desert Storm. 
The Observer accepts classffieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame olfice, 314LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Salnt Mary's onloe, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classnieds Is 3p.m. All classified& 
Classifieds 

must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day,lncludlng all spaces. 
RENT ME  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE  NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN.  NEED MICHIGAN STATE AND  NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S CHOIR  
NOTICES  Spacious 5 bedroom house in safe  $$$ SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN  GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1­ PIITGA'S CALL X2532  first practice tonight, 6:00 P.M., 122 Crowley Hall  
area. Beach V-ball court, private  STATE TICKETS. $$$  612-227-7577.  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII  parking lot. Close to campus. Semi­ Desperately need 2 GA's to Pitt or  AITENTIONII  
25% off list price  furnished.  I would like to buy 2 GA's  WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY NO  USC. Please call lisa at x1265.  Don't forget to say Happy Birthday  
10-5:30 everyday  234-3831 or 288-5653.  HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL  to my roommate. She's the  
Pandora's Books corner ol NO  Call Julie at x1342  COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON.  Desperately need 1 GA or stud  aerobicizing C.P.A. with a furious  
ave & Howard  4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house,  ticket for lUI X4656 Will  love of that which dangles!  
washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119  NOTRE DAME  Happy 19th Ill  
OFF CAMPUS IH FOOTBALL  N. St. Peter. 233-9947.  Will trade 2 TENN. GA tix  TICKETS WANTED  If I dont get your extra Mich. St. GA,  Love,  
SIGNUP CALL STEVE 233-3882  271-1371  I won't get ANY for a long time.  The Daquirimeister  
B & B available near NO on football  for 2 MICH. ST. GA. x1323.  Please help me!  
Don't miss Chicago's favorite  weekends. 271-0989.  NOTRE DAME TICKETS  x-3591  hey nit  
Irish rockers...THE DROVERS.  Mich State Stud Tickets  FOR SALE.  
Live in concert.. .Thurs.,  House for rent, one block from ND,  Wanted-Will Buy or Trade  CALL 271-1371 .  2 Michigan (as in not Mich State)  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
Sept. 12 in Theodore's. Tix  professors, staff, or graduates, 650  Call Steve, 277-4749  GA's for sale. Call between 10pm  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  
only $5.00 in advance at  month, 234-1714  NEEDED:  and midnite only. x-3591  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  
LaFortune Box Office.  Sale:STD TIXS all homegame.Call  2 GA's for IU game  289-1993. Office near campus.  
Student rentals now available. Ideal  283-3932  call 272-8735  TRADE 2 TENN/2 PIIT GA  
NEED A JOB?  for graduate students with family.  ask for Shannon  FOR 2 USC GA X4045  If you haven't copy-edited this  
Call232-5411 or 234-0379.  newspaper with Rene and Jen, you  
Good pay, on campus. Doesn't  I NEED 3 TIX FOR PIIT GAME.  Need G.A.s for Indiana and  NEED: 1 MICH ST GA. Will trade  haven't lived life to its fullest!! I  
cut into study time! Chicago Trib needs carriers, esp  FOR SALE  r  X 1684  Michigan St. Money no object. Call Ron x2157  • for stud. tix or cash CHAD 1205  
women. Call Kathy X4035  Need  Patty,  
Peavey 130 watt bass amp $275  NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pitt  2USC  Isn't that first personal the  
HEY YOU II HEY YOU II HEY  x1857  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  game. Parents will pay well! Call  6 Pitt  greatest? Macri's will eventually be  
YOU II  Tim@ X4063  GAs  open, and, in case you haven't read  
DON'T FORGET THE ANNUAL  NICE FAMILY HOME, 4 BDRMS.,  Need I.U. and all other tickets  x2204  the sports, Connors won.  
2-1/2 BATHS, FINISHED  I NEED GA TIX: 4 INDIANA; 6  More to come,  
DILLON PEP RALLY  BASEMENT, POOL & GAZEBO,  call Bill @ X1747  MICHIGAN STATE. DAVE x283­ Have 2 Pitt GA's trade for MSU  Rich  
THURS. SEPT. 5  SAUNA, LOTS OF PRIVACY ON  1545  GA's. 717-757-1934.  
6:30P.M. • IN FRONT OF DILLON HALL•  LARGE LOT, $129,900. CALL 272­4109.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I NEED 3 GA TIX FOR USC. CALL ANNA x284-5432.  PERSONAL  .04, .05, .06: Congrats! See you in the county jail! -.03  
COME SEE LOU HOLTZ AND A  09/05  I NEED GA'S FOR All HOME  
BUNCH OF FOOTBALL STUDS!!  FOR SALE: Men's 27 inch  AND AWAY GAMES!!  I'M BUYING I.U, STUD. TIX Call  I am the Lizard King and I can do  .SENIORS  
COME ON OUT AND GET  columbian 12 speed bicycle. Great  John x3660  anything.  SENIORS  
CRAZVI!  campus transportation $60. 234­ CALL JOE  
6664 after 6 P.M.  X1762  Desperately seeking USC or Tenn.  Get into the swing of things with the  
GA's. Brian x3883  $$$$  Senior Class Golf Tourney on Thurs  
LOST/FOUND  metal desk $40,iWivel tilt office chairs $35,oak chairs $15,couch $20,rocking chairs,lamps,kitchen  I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY CALL TOM  Need 2 IU GA's for family visit. Call Mick at #2133  Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563  at 3 Only $5 for a team Sign up in class office  
glassware,etc. call277-0374 or visit  X1762  SENIORS  
Lost Over the Holiday Weekend:  18221 Dunn Rd.,n. side of Campus  USC GA's WANTED I I I  Happy birthday Joe Roberts.  SENIORS  
Group of Keys.Piease Call:  View, 5pm-7pm  NEED MSUTIX  Dad's dying to see ND play  
23g·5242  Angie x2172  before I graduate.  ATIENTION: STUDENTS!  XMAS IN SEPTEMBER!!!  
FUTONS ETC.  PLEASE CALL x4227  $5.50 HAIRCUTS  "...You'd better not pout..."  
Best PricesI  NEED 2 IU GA'S  Only 3 days until Christmas I  
From Your Touch-Tone Phone Call  CALL TOM  Will trade 4 great Mich St.  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
HELP  1-800-484-1 060  x3242  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
!lost my football tickets in between  When You Hear a Tone, Dial1576  G.A.'s for 4 USC G.A's. #1752  233-4767  
North Dining Hall and Sorin!Walsh  WE SHIP  Walkins  WANTED:  
Halls. The seat information is  A Vosidus Production  NEED Tennessee GA's badly for  I need 2 USC GAs call Brian at 277­ One schoolwide alcohol policy. Must  
Section 31, row 49, seat 29. Large  folks Call Scottx3898  6894  SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER  be comprehensive, intelligent and  
- REWARDII!I!!III!IIII!III!IIIIIIIIII!I!!II!II!!  Used Computers: Mac Plus/2dd/pr  ••••••••1 HAVE GA's.......  FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AND TOMORROW UNTIL  apply to both students and visitors. Must be clear enough for even our  
Apple Jigs wtworks  •• I will PAY BIG $$$for: ••  4 Navy, 2 USC, 2 PIIT  6:45P.M. CAREER AND  beloved administration to  
Found: One large grey garment  laptop 386 w/hd Matt (x1778) or John (277-2176)  •• 2 UM, 4 Navy, 4 Tenn •• •• Dave 256-5034 ••  Call Mike at 1002 or leave message to make offer.  PLACEMENT SERVICES. SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER  understand (that means, no words over 3 syllables). If you can help us out, call our administrative toll-free  
bag. Scuffed, scratched, and  HAWAII FOR THANKSGIVING I  HelpIll  FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS.  line at 1-800-GET-CLUEI  
skanky but still intactl  Plane ticket for sale; Nov. 25-Dec.  An honest fan with a large family is  TODAY AND TOMORROW UNTIL  
Contents include dresses,  2; $430 value. Call Kathleen at  My parents are coming out to  looking for GAs to all games. We  6:45 P.M. CAREER AND  
shoes, jackets, and lacy sexy bras! Call3270 or 327g to  x2985  celebrate my 21st birthday on Saturday the 21st. They need 2  use all tickets we buy. Jeff 272 9602  PLACEMENT SERVICES.  Hi Carla, my littie hunk of chocolate love! love, Your Roomie  
identify.  CD PLAYER. SONY CDP-570  MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a  SENIORS! SENIORS! REGISTER  
Like new. High quality. Price  golden birthday.  Need 6 MSU GA's. Mike x1630  FOR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS.  
WANTED  I  negotiable. x1116  Call Julie at x1342  need 2 mich. st. and 1 Ind. tix. call x  TODAY AND TOMORROW UNTIL 6:45 P.M. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES.  Everyone be watching for the Kelley Tuthill 21st birthday party bus coming tonight to EVERY bar near  
~----~~~-T-IC-K-ET-S~  MUST HAVE IU GA"SI Call Steve x2366  2322-mike.  you I!I  
WANTED:  .  AUDITIONSIII AUDITIONS!II  
Female singer looking for musicians  I have $$$$$ for your Mich St  WANTED  The London Program's  HEY RACHEL- 
to start an alternative rock band. If  I NEED GA OR STD TIXS All  GAs! Call Kirstin at 4279 or  6 Michigan State GA's  "A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM"  Pick up any police officers lately?  
interested, call Jen Adams at 271­1497.  HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306  4208.  284-5105  September 10  6:30-9:00  Love, Your partner in "crime"  
1 TICKET NEEDED FOR  NEED 6 STUDENT TICKETS TO  September 11  6:30-9:00  
My family has disowned me ­Help me get back in their good  INDIANA GAME. CALL COLLEEN AT 4244.  INDIANA GAME. NAME YOUR PRICE. WILL FEDERAL EXPRESS  Need 2 ea. IND studs and ga's. Call Toby 1786  in THEODORE'S  Monica Eigelberger is not a ho.... I tried II II  
graces. Please sell me a few GA's  PAYMENT. CALL COLLECT.  Any questions, time conflicts,  
for USC. Karen x3978  I NEED 2 IU TIX BADLY  DAYTIME: (202) 626-1743.  I need I.U. G.A. tickets!! Please call  Call Kris x1295  
HOUSE CLEANING POSITION  CALL BILL-4186  EVENING: (202) 387-3524.  Jessica at 48181! II  Kelley Tuthill is 21 today and she's waiting for a call from Michael  
AVAILABLE II II  NEED 1 GA TIX FOR INDIANA  Need 1or 2 GA or STUD IU TIX.  IU GAs? I still need many. Call  Stonebreaker, so don1 call her and  
Eam huge sums of money! This position pays $5.00/hourl  GAME. CALL SHANE X1655  Call277-2124  ••• I HAVE 2 IND GA'S ••• WILL TRADE FOR MICH ST GA'S  Monica at 283-4098.  tie up the lines!  
Work involves cleaning a  Football Tickets For Sale!lll  CALL#4036  Come and get a sampling of  
2 1/2 room suite on the first floor of Dillon Hall, Room 162. For more information, call Joe at  Call4233. 4 season ftbl. tix FOR SALE.  TOP TEN THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT KELLEY TUTHILL • ON HER 21ST BIRTHDAY:  NEED TICKETS? 289-7920.  INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP at our introductory meeting, on Thursday, Sept. 5, at  Irs Eleven p.m., do you know where your design editors (roomies) are?  
X1644.  272-7034 after 6 pm.  10. She likes football players.  7:00 in the Stanford-Keenan chapel.  
9. She likes being called "The Hairy  DESPERATELY NEEDED!$!$!  For more info: Sean 277-4436 or  
$350.00/ DAY Processing PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242  Need GAs -6 USC & 2 MSU Jeff x3301 Need TWO INDIANA GAs.  littie Lebanese Girl." 8. She knows absolutely nothing about computers. 7. She's a big pizza nachos fan.  I need 2 GA tickets to the Pitt Game. NAME YOUR PRICEI!! Call Mike: 272-0484  Kevin x1417 lisa Gorski: Happy Belated 20th Birthday II Hope the run for the  Herbie is a Garth Brooks loving, pizza nacho sucking, tighty whitey wearing, weirdo. And the personals war is on again.  
Fraternities, sororities, campus organizations, highly motivated  Call Lynn at x4940.  6. She loves to shop at the new Martin's. 5. She's partial to Italians.  Need 3-4 GAs to any home football game. Call 283-2813.  border was funi-Did you have to take it so seriously though, Gork?l Love, Annie, Katie, and Janice  Love,  Liza  
individuals-Travel  NEEDED: 7 IU tix. Call Ann x2808.  4. She was unanimously chosen  NEEDED 1 GA TO THE INDIANA  
-­ FREE plus earn up to $3000+ selling SPRING BREAK trip!! to Cancun• South Padre Island• Bahamas/Cruises• Acapulco: 1-800·258-91 g1  NEEDED: 2 Tenn. tix. Angela x2796 Needed: 4 G.A.s for Mich. St. Call David at 277-7767  editor-in-chief. 3. She loves tidy-whities. 2. She's the queen of brown-nosers. AND THE NUMBER ONE THING YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT KELLEY TUTHILL ON HER 21ST  GAME. Call Sheila X4842. Need Mich St. and USC GAs call Phil at x2096 Tennessee Tix  Karmeeleyah, We both know your Destiny is with Me!!! Lea, get a life, girl! TOP TEN THINGS YOU SHOULD  You've heard about Vogon poetry being some of the worst poetry in the known universe? Well, thars nothing compared to Juggler poetry. During a public reading of last year's Juggler, 25 students died of  
BIRTHDAY:  3 stud  KNOW ABOUT KELLEY TUTHILL  internal hemorrhaging, and the  
FOR RENT  ND GRAD NEEDS TWO PITT TICKETS. CALL 4034.  1. She's destined for Jaspar.  2GA Zeke 283-1786  ON HER 21ST BIRTHDAY: 10. She likes football players.  chairman of the IUSB Poetry department survived only by  
VCR, TV Rentals: Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters only $99.95. 13" color TV, two semesters only $69.95.  Need 2 Indiana GA's. Will pay big bucksII II Call Bill #3718. I need 1 Mich St GA Call Bill x4274  NEED: 4 GA's for IU game. Will pay big $$$111 Call X1 076 std season tix for sale 287-7928 Marci  I need one G.A. for the I.U. game. Please call Mindy at 271-7188. football ticket book for sale. call x3953.  9. She likes being called "The Hairy Little Lebanese Girl." 8. She knows absolutely nothing about computers. 7. She's a big pizza nachos fan. 6. She loves to shop at the new Martin's.  gnawing his own leg off. In fact, last year's Juggler staff was killed when, in an attempt to end the madness, their intestines leaped up into their brains and throttled the poor souls to death... ENJOY THE WEEKEND!  
VCR, two semesters, $99.95. For fast free delivery, call COLLEGIATE RENTALS 272-5959. STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO ND. Efficiencies & one-bdrm.  Selling IU and other std tickets. luis:273-1528 #@Ofo·I=$ Need Indiana GA tix: steve@2447  I seek 2 MSU GAs. Please help fulfill a dream. Carol x4942. Need9 USCtix Anything!! x2735 NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX.  I DESPERATELY NEED TWO PITT GA'S AND TWO GA'S FOR ANY OTHER GAME. PLEASE CALL ME AT 3293. WILL PAY II I HAVE TWO NAVY GA'S. CALL IF  5. She's partial to Italians. 4. She was unanimously chosen editor-in-chief. 3. She loves tidy-whities. 2. She's the queen of brown-nosers. AND THE NUMBER ONE THING YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT  Kristin lynch-Thanks so much for filling in for me on Sunday. I had fun where I was did you? You're VERY NICE I Liza  
Utilities paid. Call255-9664.  Please help east coast double  YOU WANT THEM. 3293.  KELLEY TUTHILL ON HER 21ST  
NEED 2 GA'S TO All HOME  domer bring his family to an Irish  BIRTHDAY:  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  GAMES, ESPECIALLY INDIANA CALL GREG AT x2092  victory. Call Sam at (201) 334-3804.  TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS RANDY 800-323-7687  1. She's destined for Jasper.  DROP DEAD AGIII  

Wednesday, September 4, 1991 page 11
SCOREBOARD 
NFL STANDINGS NL STANDINGS AL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaet NATIONAL LEAGUE AMERICAN LEAGUE 
w L T Pet. PF PA Eaet Dlvlelon Eaat Dlvlelon BuHalo t 0 0 1.000 35 3t w L Pel GB LtD Streak Home Away w L Pet GB LIO Streak Holhl Away Now England t 0 0 1.000 t6 7 Pittsburgh 78 52 .600 7·3 Won t 4().24 38·28 Toronto 74 60 .552 7·3 Lost t 39-30 35-30 
N.Y. Jets t 0 0 1.000 t6 t3 St. Louis 7t 59 .546 7 z-6-4 Won 2 4t·26 30.33 Detroit 7t 6t .538 2 z-6-4 Won 2 42·22 29-39 ndlanapolls 0 t 0 .000 7 t6 Chicago 66 65 .504 t2 1/2 4·6 Won 1 38·27 28·38 Boaton 67 64 .511 5 112 5·5 loa! 1 33-31 34·33 Miami 0 t 0 .000 3t 35 New York 65 67 .492 14 Z·S-4 Milwaukee 64 68 .485 9 z-6-4 Won 1 35-31 29-37
Won 1 33-3t 32·36 

Central Philadelphia 64 68 .485 t5 Z·5·5 Lost t 39·28 25-40 New York 59 72 .450 13 112 3·7 Loa! 2 33-35 26-37 Houston t 0 0 t.OOO 47 t7 Montroal 54 77 .4t2 24 1/2 z-5·5 Lost 1 29-35 25-42 Baltimore 54 78 .409 19 z-3-7 Won 1 24-41 30.37 Pittsburgh t 0 0 t.OOO 26 20 Weal Dlvlalon Cleveland 43 88 .328 29tl2 z-4-6 Lost 3 23-41 20.47 
Cincinnati 0 t 0 .000 t4 45 w L Pet GB LID Streak Holhl Away Weal Dlvlalon Cleveland 0 t 0 .000 t4 26 Atlanta 73 59 .553 6-4 Won 1 38-29 34-30 w L Pet GB LtD Streak Holhl AwayWeal LosAngel96 72 59 .550 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 42·24 30·35 Mlnn96ota 80 53 .602 6-4 Won 3 42·24 38·29 Denver t 0 0 1.000 45 t4 Cincinnati 65 67 .492 6 5-5 Won t 34-34 31-33 Chicago 71 62 .534 9 4-6 Lost 1 38-29 33-33 Kanoaa Chy t 0 0 t.OOO t4 3 San Diego 64 68 .485 9 z-6-4 Lost t 28-35 35-33 Oakland 7t 62 .534 9 3-7 Lost 2 40.28 3t-34 LA Raiders 0 t 0 .000 t7 47 San Fran 62 69 .473 101/2 z-3-7 Lost 2 35-3t 27-38 Texas 70 61 .534 9 z-7-3 Won 3 38-25 32-36 San Diego 0 t 0 .000 20 26 Houston 54 78 .409 t9 3-7 Lost t 32-33 22-45 KansasChy 68 63 .519 11 z-6-4 Won 1 33-35 35·28 Seattle 0 t 0 .000 24 27 z-denot96 first game was a win. Seattle 67 65 .506 12112 3-7 Loa! 4 38-29 28-36 NATIONAL CONFERENCE California 65 87 .492 t4 112 z-8-4 Won 2 30.35 35-32 E..t NATIONAL LEAGUE 
W L T Pel. PF PA Monday'a Galhla AMERICAN LEAGUE Danas t 0 0 t.OOO 26 t4 Monlroal 4, Atlanta 3 Monday'a G...,.a N.Y.Gianta t 0 0 t.OOO t6 t4 Houston 3, New York 0 Toronto 5, Bahlmore 4, 12 lnnlnga Philadelphia t 0 0 t.OOO 20 3 Pittsburgh 9, San Francisco 8 Minnesota 9, Cleveland 3 Phoenix t 0 0 1.000 24 t4 Phllade~hla 8, Cincinnati 5 California 7, Milwaukee 6 Washington 1 0 0 1.000 45 0 Chicago t 0, San Diego 8 Texas 7, New York 2 Central St. Louis 7, Loa Angelos 4, 11 Innings Chicago 5, Kansas Chy 1 Chicago t 0 0 1.000 to 6 Tueaday'a Galhla Detroh 12. Seattle 5 Detroit 0 t 0 .000 0 45 Atlanta 4, Montreal 1 Tueaday'a Gamee Green Bay 0 t 0 .000 3 20 Cincinnati 8, Philadelphia 5 Late Game Not Included Minnesota 0 t 0 .000 6 to New York 6, Houston t Calffornla 2, Boaton 0 Tampa Bay 0 t 0 .000 t3 t6 Chicago at San Diego, (n) Bahlmore 8, Toronto 4 Weal Pittsburgh al San Francisco, (n) Kansas City 8, Chicago 0 New Orleans 1 0 0 1.000 27 24 St. Loul& at Loa Angelos, (n) Milwaukee 5, Oakland 3 Atlanta 0 t 0 .000 3 14 Wedneaday'a Galhle Texas 5, New York 1 LA Rams 0 t 0 .000 t4 24 Pittaburgh (Smiley t6-8) at San Francisco (Black 10-t3), 3:35p.m. Detroit at Seattle, (n) San F ranclsco 0 t 0 .000 t4 t6 Atlanta (Avery t4-8) at Montreal (Gardner 8·9), 7:35p.m. Wedneeday'a Galhla Sunday'a Galhla Cincinnati (Myera 5-t2) at Philadelphia (Greene 9-6), 7:35p.m. Calffornla (McCaskilltQ.t7) at Boaton (Heaketh 8-3), 7:35p.m 
Kansas City t4, Atlanta 3 Houaton (D96hales4-t2) at New York (Cone t2-10), 7:40p.m. Bahlmore {MIIackl8-7) at Toronto {Stottlemyre t2-6), 7:35p.m. New Orleans 27, Seattle 24 Chicago (Jackson t-4) al San Diego (Rasmus&en 4-tt), t0:05 p.m. Kansas City (Boddicker 1 1 -8) at Chicago {Fernandez 6-1 2), 8:05 p.m New York Jets t6, Tampa Bay t3 St. Louis (Corrrier 2-2) at Loa Angeles {Belcher 9-8). t 0:35p.m. Oakland {Darling 3-t) at Milwaukee (Wegman 10.6), 8:05p.m. Dallas 26, CIOYeland t4 Thureday'a Galhl CIOY8Iand (Blair t-2) at Mlnneaota {W96t 4-3), 8:35p.m. Philadelphia 20, Green Bay 3 St. Louis at San Diego, 4:05p.m. New York {Sanderson 14-8) at Texas {Bohanon 3-t), 8:35p.m. Phoenix 24, L011 Angel88 Rams t4 Thuraday'a Gamea Houston 47, Loe Angelos Raiders 17 BASEBALL LEADERS Kansas Chy at Chicago, t :05 p.m. BuHalo 35, Miami 3t Seattle at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 
LEAGUE

Chicago tO, Mlnn88ota 6 NATIONAL TRIPLES-Lanklord, St. Louis, 13; TGwynn, San Toronto at Cleveland. 7:35p.m. 
New England 16, Indianapolis 7 BATTING-TGwynn, San Diego, .323; Morris, Oakland at Detroh, 7:35p.m. 
Diego, t 1; Finley, Houston, 9; LGonzalez, Houston, 
Pntaburgh 26, San Diego 20 Clnclnnali, .3t7; Joae, 51. Louis, .315; WCiark, San 8; Grissom, Montreal, 7; Candaele, Houston. 7;Francisco, .3t4; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, .3t4;
Denver 45, Clnclnnatlt4 Van Slyke, Pittsburgh, 7. AMERICAN LEAGUE HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detroit, 37; Canseco, 
Waahlngton 45, Detroit 0 Pendleton, Atlanta, .3t2; Butler, Los Angelos, .306. BATTING-Franco, Texas, .337; Boggs, Boston, Oakland, 36; Thomas, Chicago, 30; Carter,
HOME RUNS-Johnson, New York, 29; Gant,RUNS-Butler, Loa Angeles, 92; Johnson, New
Monday'• Game .335; Palmelro, Texas, .333; Molitor, Milwaukee,
Atlanta, 28; MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 27; Toronto, 29; Tartabull, Kansas City, 27; CDavls, New York Giants t6, San Francisco 14 York, 85; Sandberg, Chicago, 84; Gant, Atlanta, 82; .331; Puckett, Mlnneaota, .330; Griffey Jr, Seattle, Minnesota, 27; JuGonzalez, Texas, 26; Tettleton,
WCiark, San Francisco, 26; McGriH, San Diego, 26; JBell, Pittsburgh, 82; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 8t;
Sunday, Sept. 8 .325; Thomas, Chicago, .324.
KvMitchell, San Francisco, 26; Dawson, Chicago, Detroit, 26; CR~en, Bahlmore, 26.
Pendleton, Atlanta, 81; OSmhh, St. Louis, 81.

Chicago at Tampa Bay, t p.m. 24. RUNS-Molhor, Milwaukee, t09; Palmelro, Texas, STOLEN BASES-RHenderson, Oakland, 48; Cleveland at New England, t p.m RBI-WCiark, San Francisco, t03; Bonds, 99; Canseco, Oakland, 95; Sierra, Texas, 93; Chicago, RAiomar, 41;
STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlanta, 68; Grissom, Raines, 46; Toronto,Pl11sburgh, 97; Johnson, New York, 9t; Dawson,
Green Bay at Detroit, t p.m Whhe, Toronto, 92; Thomas, Chicago, 90; Franco, Polonla, California, 39; Cuyler, Detroit, 34; Whhe, 
Montreal, 56; DeShields, Montreal, 49; Bonds, Chicago, 87; McGrl11, San Diego, 85; Gant, Atlanta, 
Indianapolis at Miami, 1 p.m. Texas, 88. Toronto, 3t; Franco, Texas, 27.
Pittsburgh, 40; Coleman, New York, 37; Butler, Los 
Loe Angelos Rams at New York Giants, 1 p.m. 84; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 84. Angelos, 34; OSmllh, 51. Louis, 32. RBI-Fielder, Detroh, t 1 5; Thomas, Chicago, 1 03; PITCHING (t2 Declslons)-KIInk, Oakland, 9·3,HITS-TGwynn, San Diego, t64; Butler, Loa
Minnesota at Atlanta, t p.m. Canseco, Oakland, 96; JuGonzalez, Texas, 94; .750. 3.96; H88keth, Boaton, 8-3, .750, 3.56;
PITCHING (t2 Declslons)-Carpenter, St. Louis,
New Orleans at Kansas Cky, t p.m. Angelos, 156; WCiark, San Francisco, t49; Bonilla, Sierra, Texas, 92; Carter, Toronto, 92; CRipken, Erickson, Mlnn96ota, 17-6, .739, 3.06; Gullickson, 
t0-3, .769, 4.t3; Rljo, Cincinnati, 12-4, .750, 2.57; 
Phoenix at Philadelphia, t p.m. Pittsburgh, 149; Grace, Chicago, 145; JO&e, 51. Bahlmore, 88. 
Detroit, t7-7, . 706, 4.04; Langston, California, 16-7, Pittsburgh at BuHalo, t p.m. HITS-Molnor, Milwaukee, 180; Palmolro, Texas, .696, 3.t3; Stottlemyre, Toronto, t2-6, .667, 3.78; 
DeJesus, Phllade~hla, t0-4, .7t4, 3.35; Downs, Louis, 145; Pendleton, Atlanta, t45. 
San Francisco, 10-4, .7t4, 3.91; MiWIIIJams,
San Diego al San Francisco, 4 p.m. DOUBLES-Joae. St. Louis, 38; Bonilla, t75; Puckett, Mlnn96ota, t7t; CRipken, Banlmore, Finley, California, tB-8, .667, 3.79; JoGuzman,
Philadelphia, 10-4, .7t4, 2.t2; Hurst, San Diego,Pittsburgh, 38; Morrie, Cincinnati, 29; Sabo, 
Denver at Loe Angelea Raiders, 4 p.m 168; Sierra, Texas, 164; Franco, Texas, 163; Texas, 10.5, .667, 2.95.
t5-6, .714, 3.26; Tomlin, Pittsburgh, 8-4, .667, 2.7t;
Cincinnati, 29; WCiark, San Franclaco, 29; O'Neill, 

New York Jets at Seattle, 4 p.m Smiley, Pittsburgh, 16-8, .667, 3.36. Boggs, Boston, 1 55. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boaton, 19t; RJohnson, Houaton at Cincinnati, 8 p.m. STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New York, tn; Glavlne, DOUBLES-Palmelro, Texas, 4t; GrHfey Jr, Seattle, 190; McDowell, Chicago, t65; Ryan,
Cincinnati, 29; Ganl, Atlanta. 28; JBell, Pittsburgh, -Mondey, Sept. e Seattle, 37; Carter, Toronto, 36; Boggs, Boston, 36; Texas, 157; Candlottl, Toronto, 152; Finley,
28; McReynolds, New York, 28. 

Atlanta, 165; GMaddux, Chicago, 157; Gooden, 
Washington at Dallas, 9 p.m. CRipken, Baltimore, 36; RAiomar, Toronto, 35; California, t47; Swindell, CIOY81and, t46.
New York, 150; Harnisch, Houston, t4t; Rljo, Cincinnati, 136; Hurst, San Diego, t31. 
Brett, Kansas City, 35. SAVES-Agullera, Minnesota, 37; Eckersley, TRIPLES-Molltor, Milwaukee, 11; RAiomar, 
Oakland. 36; Harvey, California, 35; Reardon, Cincinnati, 28; MIWilliams, Phllade~hla, 25; SAVES-LeSmlth, St. Loul&, 37; Dibble, 
Toronto, 10; Whhe, Toronto, 9; McRae, Kansas Boaton, 33; Henke, Toronto, 31; Thigpen, Chicago, Franco, New York, 24; Righetti, San Francisco, 20; City, 8; Devereaux, Bahlmore, 8; LJohnaon, 27; Olson, Baltimore, 26; Montgomery, Kansas
SENIOR CLASS GOLF 

Chicago, 8; Mack, Minnesota, 8; Polonla, City, 26; JeRusaell, Texa, 26.
LeHerts, San Diego, 19; BLandrum, Pittsburgh, t7; Berenguer, Atlanta, 17. 
Calffornla, 8; Gladden, Mlnneaola, 8. 
TOURNAMENT SEPT. 5 
TRANSACTIONS 
MWL STANDINGS 
FOOTBALLBASEBALL
THURSDAY 9 HOLES 3:00 
Cia.. A-Midweat Dlvlalon Alhlrlcan League National Football League CHICAGO WHITE SOX--flecallod Brian Drahman,
Second Hell MIAMI DOLPHINS-Traded Randal Hill, wide Northern Dlvlalon Jeff Carter. Tom Drees, and Ramon Garcia, receiver, to the Phoenix Cardinals tor their 1892 W L GB pitchers; Esteban Beltre, shortstop; Rodney
Pet. first-round dralt pick. 
y-Kane County (O's) 42 27 .609 McCray, outfielder, and Don Wakamatsu, catcher, NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Dalltd Pool, .565 from Vancouver ol the PacHic Coast League. 
P.M. 

Rocklord {Expoa) 39 30 3 cornerback. Waived Stan Clayton, offensive South Bend (WhlteSx) 38 31 .551 4 lineman.
KANSAS CITY ROYALS--flecallod Joel Johnston, x-Madlson (Athletica) 37 32 .536 5 pitcher, from Omaha ol the Amerlcan Association. 
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Waived Matt Darwin, Beloit (Brewers) 36 32 .529 5112 offensive tackle. Signed Pat Ryan, quarterback. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Fired Bob Molinaro, manager
Kenosha {Twins) 31 37 .456 10 112 PITISBURGH STEELERS-Signed Keith Cash,
85 per twosome 

of Port Charlotte ol the Florida State League, and Appleton (Royals) 25 44 .362 17 Dick Egan, manager of Butte of the Pioneer tight end, to the practice roster. 
Southern Dlvlelon SAN DIEGO CHARGERS-Fired Ted Toltner, 
Clinton (Giants) 43 26 .623 t5-day to the 60-day disabled list. oHenslve coordinator. Waterloo (Padrea) 40 29 .580 3 National League HOCKEY League. Moved Brad Arnaberg, phcher, from the
PRIZES: 1st -820/per 
Quad Chy (Angels) 35 34 .507 8 National Hockey Laague
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Activated Mike Peoria (Cubs) 33 36 .478 10 NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Were awarded Scott
Felder, outfielder, from the 15-day disabled list. 
Cedar Rapids (Reds) 29 40 .420 14 Stevena, defenaeman, from the St. Louie Blues as
Recalled Andres Santana, Infielder; Rick Parker. Springfield (Cards) 29 40 .420 14 corT"penaatlon for signing Brendan Shanahan.
outfielder; Eric Gunderson, Ralael Novoa, Mike x-Burllngton {Aalros) 25 44 .362 t8 NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Named Don Maloney
Remlinger, and Jose Segura, pitchers, from
player lor winning team 
x-won llret-half title; y-won aecond-half Phoenix of the PacKic Coast League. asalatant general manager. Signed Graeme title BASKETBALL 
Townshend, right wing. Monday's Gam88 NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed Adam Graves, lolt
National Baaketbefi Aaaoclatlon Madison 10, Appleton 3 CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Signed Jimmy Oliver, wing. Rockford 6, Peoria 4 guard. QUEBEC NORDIQUES-Purchased Stephana
2nd -Sl 0/per player lor 
Kenosha 10, Kane County 6 HOUSTON ROCKETS-Signed John Turner, Guerard, defenaeman, from the New York Rangers. Beloit 7, South Bend 4 forward, to a three-year contract. Released Adrian Eaet Coaat Hockey League Quad City 6, Waterloo 1 Cald-11, forward; Kennard Winchester, guard; and RICHMOND RENEGADES-Signed Tr&Yor Jobe, Cedar Rapids 5, Springfield 1 Dave Felli, center. center-loll wing. 
SOCCER 
Tueaday's Games senior vice pr96ldent. Mafor Soccer League Appleton at Madison Continental Basketball Asaoclatlon BALTIMORE BLAST-Announced that Mike Peoria at Rockford GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Acquired the rights to Stankovlc. defender, has algned one-year 
Clinton 4, Burlington 1 NEW JERSEY NETs-Named Arnold J. Prlves
2nd place 

a Kenoaha at Kane County Andre Tate, guard, from the Sioux Falla Skyforce contract as player-assistant coach.
Sign up lor tee times in 
Beloit at South Bend for the rights to Darryl McDonald, guard. CLEVELAND CRUNCH-Signed Hector Marlnaro, Quad City at Waterloo forward. Sprlngfield at Cedar Rapids SAN DIEGO SOCKERS-Walved Waad Hlrmez, Clinton at Burlington midllelder. Signed Vlclor Nogueira, goalkeeper, to End Second Half a one-year contract
Senior Class Office 
COLLEGE BENTLEY-Named Jay Lawson men'a basketball coach. BOSTON UNIVERSITY-Named Rick Deraney
SPECIAL OPPORTUNITY FOR INTERESTED SOPHOMORES 
uaiatant baseball coach. CLARION-Named Nancy Latimore auoclata dlrec::tor ol athletics.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLUMBIA--Announoed the reelgnatlon o1 Nancy 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS Kalafua, women's baaketball coach. DUQUESNE-Named Sue Ryan ualatant sports Information director. 
TRINITY COLLEGE .. 

MCNEESE STATE--Named Dorsey Relrdon track and field coach. 
MANHATTAN-Named Steve Post men'l volunt-ual&tant basketbal coach.
DUHLIN, IRELAND 
1992-93 Academic Year 

NAVY-Named Joe French aaalltant basketball coach. 
-~
PEPPERDINE-Named Krlaly Hopl<lna women'a 
gol coach. 
ST. PETER'S-Named Tony Bruno, otfenalve
INFORMATION MEETING 

coordinator; Mike Covello. defenalve coordinator; Frank Capelola, running backa coach; Pat Maatera,
with 

aaalatanl oHenalve line coach; Orlando Cortaz,
Dr. Isabel Charles detenalve line coach; Guy Packwood, recelvera coach and Benno Scholz, linebacker coach. WESTCHESTER CC-Named Jeff Charney baseball coach; Llaa Gralt woman'a basketball
Wednesday, September 4, 1991 

coach; and John Yaln..c women'a tennla coach. 
6:30 P.M. Room 106 O'Shaughnessy 


page 12 The Observer 
Miami optimistic despite loss to Buffalo 
MIAMI (AP) -The prospect of better days eased the sting of the Miami Dolphins' season­opening loss at Buffalo. 
In a game Miami had been pointing toward since the start of training camp, the Bills ral­lied with four second-half touchdowns Sunday to win, 35­31. 
"A tough one to lose," Coach Don Shula said Monday. 
But there was plenty of con­solation for the Dolphins: Their offense was rejuvenated, and they can look forward to a soft schedule for the next month and the return of three starters this week. 
"There were a lot of good things that happened up there that we have to build on," Shula said. 
Most of the good things happened when Miami had the ball. An offense that struggled throughout the preseason showed good balance between the run and pass and put to­gether four scoring drives of at least 60 vards. 

Bradley birdies way to LPGA title in Springfield 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) ­During rain delays at the LPGA Rail Charity Classic, Pat Bradley sat alone playing the course in her mind -getting birdies on every hole. 
Then she put her imagina­tion to work Tuesday, winning her 28th tournament and set­ting a 54-hole LPGA record. 
"It was a very productive rain delay for me -very pro­ductive," she said. 
Bradley finished the 

-
$400,000 event with a 19-un­der-par 197, besting the 198 posted on 54 holes by Jan 
Rockets sign draft pick early 
HOUSTON (AP) -Forward John Turner, the 20th pick in the NBA draft, signed a three­year contract Tuesday with the Rockets that will pay him a re­ported $800,000 a year. 
"This is the earliest signing of a Rockets first round draft pick since Hakeem Olajuwon seven years ago," Rockets gen­eral manager Steve Patterson said. 
Olajuwon signed with the Rockets Aug. 8, 1984. 

Turner was an NAIA All­American at Phillips University last season, where he led the Sooner Athletic Conference in scoring with 23.9 points and 
13.7 rebounds per game. 

Rockets coach Don Chaney plans to work Turner at both small and power forward when training camp begins. 
"I don't think it will be diffi­cult," Turner said. "Some peo­ple play the four position and also play outside. I don't think it will be a big change." 
Turner started his college career at Georgetown but left for Phillips after running afoul with coach John Thompson's rules. Going to Phillips was a good move, Turner said. It helped reach his goal of playing in the pros. 
"When I was at Georgetown this was one of my goals and when I left it was still a goal, I never gave up," Turner said. "You're going to have ups and downs in life. Hard work is also the answer." 
The Rockets released Adrian Caldwell, Kennard Winchester and Dave Feitl to come under the NBA's $12.5 million_salary cap to make room for Turner on the roster. 
Stephenson in the 1981 Mary Kay Classic. Bradley's 28th vic­tory on the LPGA tour left her just two short of the 30 needed to automatically enter the Hall of Fame. 
Danielle Ammaccapane moved into second with a birdie on the 18th, finishing six strokes behind Bradley with a 13-under 203. 
Laura Davies played a lack­luster final round, dropping from a tie with Bradley to seven strokes back. She fmished with a 12-under 204. 
Meg Mallon also finished seven strokes back, bogeying her fmal hole to fmish at 5-un­der for the fmal round and 12­under for the tournament. 
Rain and lightning forced a two-hour delay Monday, giving Bradley plenty of time to visual­ize breezing through the course. When play resumed, she knocked in three straight birdies to open a 4-stroke lead. 
Then new flashes of light­ning forced officials to postpone the finish until Tuesday, when she started with two more birdies and then played par the rest of the way. Bradley missed going 20-under on the 18th hole when her putt of about 12 feet died a foot from the cup. 
"It was the first time that I can tell you I really let down 

American Red Cross 
_;­


Ih~Obsener 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Photo Editor 
A two-page personal statement and a resume should be submitted to Kelley Tuthill at The Observer by Monday, Sept. 9, at 5 p.m. For further information about this position, contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-7471 
"Everybody offensively played a pretty good game," Shula said. 
Defense was another matter. The Bills finished with 33 first downs and a team record 583 yards. 
"We caved in defensively in the second half," Shula said. 
A lot of teams figure to have trouble stopping the defending AFC champions, and the Dolphins won't have to deal with them again until Monday night, Nov. 18. 
Miami's immediate concern is the home opener Sunday against Indianapolis. Then come games at Detroit and at home against Green Bay. The three upcoming opponents lost on opening day by a combined score of 81-10. 
The Dolphins play five games before they meet another team that was over .500 last year ­Kansas City, on Oct. 13. So there's still an outside chance of matching last year's 8-1 start, which propelled Miami to its first playoff berth since 1985. 
Making it easier to capitalize on the schedule will be the re­turn of tackle Richmond Webb, tight end Ferrell Edmunds and cornerback J.B. Brown, all starters in 1990. 
Edmunds and Brown joined the team late last week after ending summer-long salary squabbles, and they did not make the trip to Buffalo. Webb missed the game with a knee injury but likely will return to team drills this week, Shula said. 
Four veterans remain un­signed as contract disputes and injuries continue to burden the Dolphins. But there's been a silver lining, Shula said. 
"The benefits were that some (new) people got an op­portunity, and some came through for us," he said. 
Most visible was running back Mark Higgs, who rushed for 146 yards in 30 carries as a fill-in for the injured Sammie Smith. The 5-foot-7, 195-pound Higgs had 'carried a total of 59 times in his three previous NFL seasons. 
since this tournament started," she said. "Yes, 20-under would have been great, but I'm very, very pleased with the 19 and I'm more than ecstatic with the 28th win." 
Bradley, 40, is the LPGA's all­time leader in earnings and also leads the tour for this sea­son. She's in a three-way battle with Beth Daniel and Mallon, the tour's only three-time win­ner this season, for player-of­the-year honors. 
Davies led by five shots after the first round, thanks to a record-tying 10-under 62. But she was only 2-under for the next two rounds combined. 
In the final round, the hard-driving Briton squandered a chance for eagle and then birdie by three-putting the third 
hole, then parred the 485-yard, 
par-5 sixth hole -which gave up three eagles that day. 
Ammaccapane, though, played 6-under in the final round. She used four birdies and an eagle to climb out of the pack and ahead of Davies. She started out flat when play re­sumed Tuesday but finished with a birdie. 
"I was a bit nervous this morning. I was on a roll yes­terday and I wanted to keep going," she said. "It's tough sometimes, coming back." 

Wednesday, September 4, 1991 
SPORiSSHORTS 
;; lrisb piibter Sexton arrested IINotre. D~e, IN (AP) ----Notre Dame punter James Sexton, 22, was cited APg~ 26 fore.llegedly shoplifting at Martin's Supermarket. 1808 t Indiana 23, according to the St. Joseph County Police Department. The Morrissey Hall resident was «X>nfronted at 9:45 p.m. by off-duty county police officer Chief Frink Canareeci after he noticed Sexton place five packs of Action 
Packed football cards in his shorts pocket, the police report said. sexton told the officer he forgot to pay for the cards, but later said :t}l~the. di~'t wa~t hi~ girlfriend to know he was buying them. He 
}VaS questioned and r~leased. The case report has been forwarded to the St. Joseph County Prosecutor. 
,. Lfmpirt wgmts f(Qnfron1i1Jion reviewed 
jPITTSBURGH--National League umpire Eric Gregg said he will send a videotape of Pirates outfielder Bobby Bonilla's angry confrontation with him to the league offices for review. 
;;;' "He embarrassed himself and his team," Gregg said. il~liLBonilla ,became enraged when he was called out on strikes in the eighth inning of the Pirates' 9-8 victory in San Francisco on Monday. Bonilla had,been angered earlier by a strike call before ll,eflied o11tln the siX~~ inning. "'; Bonilla eruptedafti'!r striking out in the eighth, exchanging words with Gregg before being ejected. He then screamed a vulgarity at Gregg and had to be restrained by teammate Barry 
an~ntanaget Jim Leyland. ougljt he was. going to break my hand," Bonds said. "I flrabhed his shirt and was saying, 'Be cool, be cool.' •• Gregg said Bonilla didn't bump him, but Bonilla definitely came .... . ,, Dtu'in.gt~e exch~ge. Pirates .Players said Gregg further red BOnilla by s~y:ing: "You used to be a nice guy. But now all guys make all that money. You think you can do anything." .Bo~lll.~ed to smooth overt11e incident afterwards, saying "it's 1\oblgdeai,Eric.andi·are.tlne;·
= . ···~· . ~· .
,:~:::::::=:·:··· 
Hgck@y atar K&yin Stevens vi§lts coach 
•PITTSBl,JRGH ..,._ Pe11gutns forvvard Kevin Stevens came back to -~and quickly wentto visit seriously ill coach Bob Johnson. h?''A.pparently, Johnson was as eager to see Stevens as the still­unsigned scoring star was to see him. 
Steven$5J1ld that~~ortly after he entered Johnson's room day atrMercy Hospital, the coach handed him a note saying, t on a p~ane and go to Hamilton." 
;;-;, Johnsonapparently realized how much Team USA could have used Steve~~ in. its 6t3 Canada Cup loss to Canada on Sunday. Stf;ivenswantedtopl~yin the tou.rnament, but was unable to arrange acj.equate insUrance while negotiating a new contract. 
Johnson was coaching Team USA before requiring emergency surgery to. remov~ a brain tumor last Friday. He remained in criticalbu(stable oondition Tuesday but is no longer in the .intensive care unit, team officials said. 
Johnson has regained limited movement on his left side, which ~as temporarily paralyzed after.the surgery to remove one of the 
~ ~t~w·~o~t~~~·:o::n:::::::n::so::n::'s:::hr::a::in::;::•"j·=···===========~ 
WHAT IF YOU  
DON'TGn  
INTO THE  
SCHOOL OF  
YOUR CHOICE?  
Sure. there are other  
schools. But why settle?  
Kaplan prep courses help  
students raise their scores  
and their chancesor  
being admitted into their  
first-choice schools. Fact  
is, no one has helped  
students score higherl  
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED­ 
PLEASE RESERVE YOUR  
PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE­ 
272•4135  

Wednesday, September 4, 1991 The Observer 
a e 13 

I 
-. I I I 
I 
I 
-

-

The erotic Kelley: The passionate Kelley: Asteaming hot vixen SO HOT! 
Whatlhey're saying about Kelley: 
We saved the best untillast...Happy 21st Birthday. No more minks and meres tor you. All our /ove.-1111' Fanily. 
Kelley has to be the biggest brown-noser we have ever had in class, hands down.-llar Prolassn. 
We want her to come back soonJ-lba Man II Tbayar AcDnr 

....
Happy Birthday, Kelleyl With love from your friends: 
O.B., Ally, Monica, Monica (the other one), Sara, Jill ,Liza, Cyndy, Betsy, Libby, Nora, Julie, Rachel, Carla, Angie, Michael Stonebreaker, 
Beef, Rich, Tim, Christine, Lisa Eaton, Joe Moody, John Rock, Jay Colucci, Mom, Dad, Melissa, Tracey, Whitney, the O'Briens, Ashley 
O'Brien, The Italian Club of Boston, Eric Bailey, Jake Frost, Dannika Simpson, Brendan Regan, Dave Dieteman, Emily Willett, Sgt. James 
Moon, Julie Sheridan, Alissa Murphy, Mark Sloan, Gil Gomez, Dan Shinnick, countless Viewpoint columnists, Tom Tom, Meredith 
McCullough, Paul Pearson, Dave ''the male slut" Kinney, Ann Marie Hartman, Paige, Pete Loftus, Anna Marie Tabor, Rich Szabo, Rich 
Kurz, Frank Rivera, Amy Laroux, Shirley (no last name, of course), Rene Ferran, Jahnelle Harrigan, and all your friends and readers. 




page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 4, 1991 

Braves end skid in Montreal 
Rangers streak to 15 with victory over Blue Jays 
MONTREAL (AP) -For the Braves, losing three in a row was enough. 
"Every team hits a flat pe­riod at some point in the year, it's normal and it's not so bad as long as you keep it to a cou­ple of games," said Dave Justice after leading Atlanta to a 4-1 win over the Expos on Tuesday night. 
Justice had a pair of hits and drove in three runs to lead Atlanta, which began the night tied with Los Angeles for frrst in the NL West. 
"We didn't have the intensity we should have the last couple of nights, but I don't agree that it's because we've hit September," Justice said. "Even 

-though we're tied for first place, I don't consider it a pen­nant race. It's not a race until the last week of September. 
"The thing we have to worry about is getting back to doing the things we have to do. Tonight we did. We executed and we got some timely hitting, defense and real good pitch­ing." 
The pitching came mainly from starter John Smoltz, who has turned his season around in the second half. Smoltz (11­
13) pitched 6 2-3 innings of six­hit ball before needing relief help.

Two-out walks to Rafael Belliard and Pendleton and an error by shortstop Bret Barberie on Gant's grounder loaded the bases for the Braves-in the third before Justice sin­gled to drive in two more runs. 
Justice singled home Belliard for Atlanta's final run in the fifth, before Delino DeShields singled to drive in Barberie and chase Smoltz in the seventh. 
Rangers 5, Yankees 1 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Texas won its 15th consecutive home game over the Yankees as Jose Guzman pitched a five-hitter Tuesday night and led the Rangers to a 5-1 victory. 
The Yankees have not won at Texas since May 4, 1989. The AL record for consecutive home victories over one team is 22, set by the Boston Red Sox against the Philadelphia Athletics in 1945 and 1946. 
Guzman (10-5) struck out six and walked three in his third complete game this season. 
Jeff Johnson (5-9) gave up four runs and nine hits in a 5 2­3 innings as the Yankees lost for the third time in four games. 
Texas, which won its third straight, went ahead in the first on a run-scoring single by Mike Stanley. Jose Hernandez hit an RBI double in the fourth, but the Yankees pulled to 2-1 in the fifth when Guzman threw a run-scoring wild pitch with Matt Nokes on third. 
Ruben Sierra hit his 20th home run in the nfth and Brian Downing made it 4-1 in the 

-liangle Drafting Supply 1021 North Main Street Mishawaka. Indiana 46545 ~ 
L.:::..J (2191 259·2459 llll' NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOSTITEMS­M-F SAM-5:30 PM SAT 9 AM-NOON 

sixth with a run-scoring double. 
Ivan Rodriguez hit his second career home run in the eighth. 
Angels 2, Red Sox 0 
BOSTON-Mark Langston beat Boston for the third time this season and Dave Parker drove in the go-ahead run with his 2,700th career hit as the Angels beat the Red Sox 2-0 Tuesday night. 
Langston (16-7) allowed four hits in 6 1-3 innings, struck out three and walked two. Mark Eichhorn escaped a one-out jam with runners on second and third in the seventh and pitched a perfect eighth before Bryan Harvey finished for his 35th save in 38 chances. 
Mike Gardiner (6-7), who had won his three previous starts, allowed six hits in 5 1-3 innings, struck out seven and walked two. 
Orioles 8, Blue Jays 4 
TORONTO (AP) -Dwight Evans hit a three-run homer and had his first four-hit game this season, and Glenn Davis also homered and had three hits. 
Ben McDonald (6-8), winless in five starts since Aug. 2, al­lowed three runs and five hits in six innings, struck out four and walked none. Mike Flanagan finished with one-run, two-hit relief for his third save. 
David Wells (13-10) gave up four runs and nine hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
Baltimore, which ended a three-game losing streak, won for only the second time in eight games. 
Royals 8, White Sox 0 
CHICAGO -Danny Tartabull hit a pair of two-run homers for the sixth multiple-home run game of his career and Kevin Appier (11-9) pitched a five-hit­ter and struck out nine. 
Bo Jackson, in his second game of his comeback, went 0­for-4, making him hitless in seven at-bats. He struck out twice and grounded out twice. The loss ended a three-game winning streak for the White Sox, who are 6-17 since Aug. 11. 
Jack McDowell (15-9) al­lowed six runs and eight hits in 5 1-3 innings and struck out eight. 
Brewers 5, Athletics 3 
MILWAUKEE -Robin Yount hit a three-run homer in the ninth, capping the Brewers' comeback froma 3-0 deficit. 
Jim Gantner hit his first 
home run in four years in the seventh and B.J. Surhoff hit his fifth home run in the eighth. 
Milwaukee then rallied in the ninth off Dennis Eckersley (3-3), who blew his seventh save opportunity in 43 chances. Bill Spiers walked, Willie Randolph singled and Darryl Hamilton hit into a fielder's choice. Yount followed with his lOth home run, his first since May 26. 
Edwin Nunez (2-1) pitched a perfect ninth.nnings, struck out three and walked two. Mark Eichhorn escaped a one-out jam with runners on second and third in the seventh and pitched a perfect eighth before Bryan Harvey finished for his 35th save in 38 chances. 
Mike Gardiner (6-7), who had won his three previous starts, allowed six hits in 5 1-3 innings, struck out seven and walked two. 
Mets 6, Astros 1 
NEW YORK (AP) -Howard Johnson, making his first out­field start since 1986, drove in two runs to help the Mets to a 6-1 victory over the Astros on Tuesday night. 
Johnson doubled home a run in the Mets' three-run first and singled in another in a three­run fifth that helped Anthony Young (1-1) to his first major league win. 
Young allowed seven hits over the first seven innings, walking none and striking out six. Tim Burke pitched two scoreless innings in relief for New York. 
Johnson had appeared in 14 major league games as an out­fielder and was shifted to right partly because he leads NL third basemen in errors with 29. 
Houston starter Mark Portugal (1 0-7) was the loser. 
Reds 8, Phlllles 5 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Jose Rijo won his fourth straight start, and Chris Sabo hit a two­run homer as the Reds ended their four-game losing streak by defeating the Phillies 8-5. 
Rijo allowed nine hits, struck out four and walked one in seven innings to improve his record to 12-4. He has won 11 of his last 13 decisions covering 17 starts. Rob Dibble pitched two scoreless innings to gain his 28th save in 30 opportuni­ties. 
Sabo's 22nd homer gave Cincinnati a 6-3 lead in the fifth and the Reds' eventual winning run. 
The loser was Cliff Brantley (0-1), who was making his ma­jor league debut for Philadelphia. 

SPORlSBRIEFS 
•The Observer accepts sports briefs in writing at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune from 9:00 a.m. until 
4:30 p.m.. Be sure to include date, place, time and number of days the brief is to run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all briefs. 
•Off 
campus lnterhall football players can sign up by calling Steve at 233-3882 or 234-6976. Tryouts will be held at 6:30 pro on Thurs. September 5 on Stepan field. 

•Novice 
rowing coaches are needed for the 1991-92 season. All interested parties should contact Pete at 271-8466. There will be a general meeting for anyone interested in rowing novice for the 91-92 season on Friday at 7:00p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. 

•Anyone 
Interested In playing off campus interhall soccer players can call Paul or Rob at 277-5329. Transfers are very welcome. 

•The 
NO Martial Arts Institute will start beginners practice on Thursday from 6:30 to 8:30 and Sunday 5:00 to 7:00 in room 219 of the Rockne Memorial. Advanced classes will be held Friday 6:00 to 8:00 and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00. Anyone is welcome to attend. 

•An 
organizational meeting will be held Wednesday September 4 at 7 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune for anyone 


terested in playing women's off-campus football. Questions, call 
Kristy at 273-1257. 
•Anyone Interested In participating in competitive ballet, both 
chnical and modern freestyle should contact Bob Nolan at 271­296 after 9 p.m. A new club is forming. 

AP Photo Cincinnati Reds Chris Saba slams a two-run homer in the fifth inning on Tuesday night. It was Saba's 22nd home run of the year. 
FOUR YEARS OF COLLEGE DOWN THE TUBES. 

-~ ·~ ·"",..,...,.1 
~ ";t.'!i:
,-_.'j,? 

-.6(1 bdhnr-. ~o drugs 
,n,.,.;~,no;. ~'~ .,..,lfll bt-~(ln~\dt!red Sr,Uus \t'OU. OWlS! uftht­f,rremplc~·mt'nt.Fttrtune ;-Jt~l w1ll ht-adnnmsu:r ·\Iter all. 1r vuu're mtn drug~ . lh.ll rillll( t~~ts. FaLhnl( thr tesl hlow ~marl can ynu bt­
lf\mllhmi.:.H;c lr-:.1~ 111 < ol lt'l(t' Jre lougtl ...,otit UUIJI \'UUr fiNJObmterm•\\ l.n..l\'\:ar. ..\nlt'nra's bu~IOhSt•:. lu~l 

Wednesday, September 4, 1991 The Observer page 15 
LECTURES CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
ACROSS 32 Juniper &1 Skater's 35 Ida. neighbor spinning leap
1"-Wars"
4 p.m. "Swords into Plowshares: Poverty and the Arms Race," 
36Aberdeen &2 TV, radio, etc.

5 Heron's cousin
Bruce Kent. llesburgh Center Auditorium. negative
9 Stone pillar &3 Slammer 
37 Degrade

14 Whetstone 64 N.M. neighbor
Thursday 15 Knob 3BAero org. 
&5 Pares 1& The Pentateuch 39Chilicon­&& LL.B. holder 

12:15 p.m. "Coup in the Soviet Union," Igor Grazin, visiting 17 Fat: Comb. form 41 Bespangled 
&7Waste1Binvestor who uncle

professor, ND Law School. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
allowancesold at the 42 Snaky turn 

high? 
43 Open spaces

19 Poems like the 
44 Management's DOWN

MENU "Iliad" 
yearly rebuttal 

20 Glimpse of the 1 Shoulder cover
to

NOTRE DAME N.Y.S.E.? 
stockholders? 2 Morning

23 Essential amino program on TV
4t-Biue Eagle org. 
acid

Holled Bacon and Cheese Omelet 3 Shrubs yielding
50'Revile

24 Northern diving
Holled Cheese Omelet indigo
54 Congressional
bird

BBQ Chicken romps? 4 Reproductions
25 Result of 100 California Eldorado Casserole point D.J.I.A. 59 Ethan or Ira 5 Foot arch drop? eo--de-camp 6 A Pretorian 7-fixe a Withered 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Advance --r~,.,-,~-10 Kan. city -=+=-+-"'+'--~~""" 11 Barge canal in 
N.Y. 12 Deficiency 13 Expressions of 32 Mexican's 48 Like mean 55Ye-­
pleasure home critters curiosity -:7t:::-E+=-i 21 Small drum 51 City on the Nile shoppe
33 Abba of Israel 5& Space org.
34 Execrate 57 Catcher's glovechamp 

53 Type of milling 2& Derive by cutter 
39 Unit equaling 58 Polish puzzles 
59 Current unit, for reasoning 200 milligrams 54 Hilarity short40 Object made by27 Provoke 
man ~tm••• 28 Nautical 45 Reveal 
-=+::+-:::,-t-:-:-1'!"' ~ command 
Answers to any three clues in this 
=+':::...r.':-+=+-:-tr-::+=-1 29 Concerning 46 Fields of conflict puzzle ar~ available by touch-tone .::t::+.::-t-11-:::-iP.-+;;-t 30 Sten role 47 Roman phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each ..::....L~'--L:...J"-'--' 31 Discerns household god minute). 
' 

SPIN JOHN MONKS 
JAY HOSLER
GARY LARSON

THEFARSIDE SPB.UHICER 
NOTHING, MY FOOT 1 
You 1/JfRC T"~YIN • TO SLiP ME -r~E N0\01 DOrff 1'\AKE 
1"0/JC.IiE. R16HT HU• THII'I'S 1/JORSE 
IN Pusuc! BY LYINC.. 
~gJS~~S~T I r8v[) I 
JUST.. ~ 
@?~~ 
•
ELI. 

Depression
Coming soon to an ObsePveP near you... 
Sex Eating Disorders 
Stress 
Relationships 

Addictions 
It's Counselor Corner 


..,
The Observer, in conjunction with the University Counseling Center, will be running a weekly advice column starting next week. But we need the students' help to make it a success, so write your letters now. 
Address them to Counselor Corner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
---------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
.. 
Sports 

Wednesday, September 4, 1991 page 16 
Irish secondary ready to suprise with old and new ~aces· 

Davis, Smith to lead backfield with experience 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
makes a starting spot even Associate Sports Editor more important. 
"We all have to go all out on every play in practice, because For the Notre Dame sec­we know that we all play at the 
ondary, the 1990 football sea­same level and are closely son was anything but excep­matched," said Carter. tional. With two-time All­America cornerback Todd As is the case when any inex­Lyght now with the Los Angeles perienced team takes the field,
Rams, few people believe the 

the seniors will have a sizable 
1991 version of the defensive 

burden on the shoulders. 
backfield will hardly be a force Cooper believes Davis and to be reckoned with. The re­Smith will have no problemturning six sophomores and handling their leadership duties 
two seniors have different 
in the backfield. 
Greg Davis

plans, however. "They've shown the other Under the direction of first­guys what it takes to get the job
Davis will be flanked by free
year coach Ron Cooper, the done. Those guys are ready to 
secondary looks to improve safety Jeff Burris (6-0, 194), get on with it and play right 
upon last season's spotty play, who gets the first start of his now," said Cooper, the defen­which included giving up an career after seeing action in 
sive coordinator and lineback­all-time Irish high of 267.1 eleven games during last year's ers coach at UNLV in 1990. 
yards per game. With at least freshman campaign. Burris will While sophomores dominate two freshmen playing in the also see time as punt and kick­
the defensive backfield, Davis secondary at a given time last off returner. expects a more consistent effort 
Senior Rod Smith (6-0, 186),
year, the experience gained than what they produced last 
should bolster Irish hopes of who started the final four year.improving upon last year's ef­games of the 1990 season, can "We basically all played to­fort. play either corner slot, but will 
gether at one time or another start at field cornerback. 
last season, so we know what "We're young in terms of Sophomore Tom Carter (5-11, 
to expect," said Davis. "We're putting guys out there who've 186), who moved from free communicating a Jot more with played a lot of minutes," said safety during the spring, gets each other, so that should 
Cooper, who joined the Irish the nod over classmate Greg eliminate some of the problemsstaff in mid-February. "But we Lane at the other corner spot. that we had at times last year." 
had great success throughout Notre Dame will face many

the spring and I feel really good "Cornerback is more my nat­talented quarterbacksabout the talent we have." ural position, so I was glad to 
throughout the season, but the 
Leading the Irish corps will be get back there during the Irish are concerned with onlyfifth-vP.ar senior safetv Gre!Z spring," said l.arter, who at­one at the moment-Indiana'sUavis lb-U, 2U4lbs.), who led tenaea tne same mgn scnooJ as 
Trent Green. The secondary isthe squad in tackles (58) last former Irish safety Pat Terrell. 
determined to do their part in season. Ranked 11th nationally That's not to say that those shutting down a quick Hoosier among safeties in the presea­positions will be exclusively offense, powered by Green and 
son by The Sporting News, held, especially with such 
potential All-America tailback Davis sees a better season closely matched talent. 
Vaughn Dunbar. 


ahead for the entire secondary. "Right now, we have seven­out-of-eight players who could "We feel that the way we play"We were nervous as a unit at go in at any time. Hopefully by as a unit dictates the way thethe beginning of last year," said Friday it'll be eight-out-of­team will play, so we should be
Senior cornerback Rod Smith preserved a win at Tennessee last Davis. "But we're more relaxed eight," said Cooper. 
able to focus on that and get
season with this last minute interception. Smith is expected to be a right now because all of us Carter believes the competi­
our jobs done," said Davis. 

threat in the backfield again this year. have been there." tion among the sophomores 
Seles advances to semifinals in Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -Monica and serving really well. points but succumbed on the 
Seles, still promising to set the "She is always fighting and third with a backhand that tennis world abuzz with her thinking. She is a very smart caught the net cord and sexy new garb, put off the player, very tenacious, and bounced back. fashion show to concentrate on keeps coming at you. If you look Meanwhile, the tournament 
reaching the U.S. Open semifi­at her, you don't think she is ~ was still buzzing over the nals Tuesday for the first time tennis player. She is not built remarkable achievement of in her career. like a tennis player, but her Jimmy Connors. 
She wore the same old outfit mind just keeps her in there." Energized by the National and had the same old strokes. "I think all the great players Tennis Center crowd and a 
The victim this time was Gigi have that," Seles said. "I mean, couple of close calls that went Fernandez, only 27 but still a Chris, Martina, also Jimmy against him, Connors sum­full decade older than Seles, Connors, Mac, everybody. I moned strength from the depths who barely broke a sweat in think you have to have that. I of his 39-year-old body Monday winning 6-1, 6-2 in 53 minutes mean you can't be a dead per­to reach the quarterfmals with of tedious tennis. son on the court. a victory against Aaron 
Seles, who won the A brief lapse in the fifth Krickstein that defied logic. 
Australian Open this year and game, and a sudden spate of the monumental her second straight French alert, aggressive net play by Connors-Krickstein match Open, is trying to add the U.S. Fernandez, led to a break of overshadowed the other action. Open to her Grand Slam Seles' service at 15-40. Earlier, the women's quarterfi­achievements. Fernandez still couldn't cope nal bracket was completed with 
Fernandez didn't act much with Seles' deep returns of ser­four-time champion Martina like a serious threat on the vice, and Seles came back to Navratilova leading the ad­court as she sprayed 36 un­close out the set at love with a vance. The 34-year-old reached forced errors in her first match forehand crosscourt that the quarters for the 13th time against Seles, who made only Fernandez couldn't reach. in 15 years and settled a year­10 errors. Fernandez finally held to old score with a 7-6 (7-5), 1-6, 
Seles started as-if she were start the second set, then held 6-2 victory over lOth seeded out to break the record for again after five deuces in the Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere, fastest match of the tourna­third game to make it 2-1. Seles who eliminated her from this 
-
ment, winning the first four ran into a little resistance with event a: year ago. games in 12 minutes while not three break points in the fourth "This was a pretty big win dropping a point on serve game, but pulled out the game for me at this stage because I against a player appearing in and cruised through the next haven't beaten her for a while," her first Grand Slam quarterfi­three games while dropping Navratilova, seeded No. 6, said. nal. only four points. "I just wanted to do well in this "I don't think that I was so Serving for the match, Seles tournament. I got through that much nervous or impressed by again faced a break point but one so now I am one round fur­the event as much as by her was saved by still another ther than I was last year. Now I game," Fernandez said. "She Fernandez mistake, an easy am where I wanted to be, which came out really strong and she backhand return into the net. was winning the next match 
was jumping all over my serve Fernandez saved two match and waiting for the next one." 








