
FRIDAY , JANUARY 25, 1991
VOL. XXIII NO. 79 
. 
~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Allied forces shoot down two Iraqi warplanes 
showed signs of life Thursday U.S. pilots and military com­and sent two warplanes along manders said Thursday, but the Saudi coast carrying the neither provided casualty fig­feared Exocet anti-ship mis­ures. siles. Both fighters were The allied tactics call for promptly shot down. "softening up" the Iraqi forces 
Iraq mocked the allies for from the air before trying to failing to launch a ground of­eject them from Kuwait by fensive, but allied commanders OPERATION ground. said they would stick to their The number of allied sorties

DESERT STORM 

game plan and intensify the passed 15,000 on Thursday, around-the-clock air strikes on Pepin said. Allied sources in Iraq and occupied Kuwait. Dhahran said the U.S.-led
• Hussein talks I page 8

The U.S. Navy scored a vic­coalition wants to pick up the
• U.S. hits Iraqi ships I page 8 
tory in the northern Persian pace, perhaps flying 3,000 mis­
• GCAC in capital/ page 8 

Gulf, taking 51 Iraqis prisoner sions a day if the skies remain on a tiny Kuwaiti island and • 'Op. Desert FAX'/ page 9 clear. sinking an Iraqi minesweeper, • Lecture on oil I page 9 In addition, Pentagon sources American officials reported. • Bombs in Greece I page 9 said Thursday that U.S. sub­They said a second • SMC teach-in/ page 9 marines, operating from the minesweeper exploded and depths of the Mediterranean sank, apparently after hitting a and Red seas, are continuing to mine while trying to escape. fire Tomahawk cruise missiles
ing skies to step up their relent­
Three Iraqis were killed on at targets inside Iraq. 
less air assault on Iraq and 
· Qaruh Island Thursday in the Gen. Colin Powell, chairman
Kuwait. Many of the attacks
latest action by the U.S. Navy of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said
concentrated on Iraq's elite Re­
along the Kuwaiti coast, where Wednesday in Washington that
publican Guards, an Army
Iraqis have been sowing mines air attacks would intensify
spokesman said.

and installing anti-aircraft along supply routes and lines of 
The Republican Guards, the 
weapons on oil platforms. communications around the
backbone of the Iraqi armed
The United States and Britain Iraqi city of Basra, near the
forces, is a self-contained mili­
each lost a warplane during the gulf and Kuwaiti border, in an DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) The sorties are inflicting -Iraq's elusive air force heavy damage on the guards, GULF WAR ROUNDUP 

TURKEY 
IRAN 
Reports from Iran say allied warplanes blasted targets in Patriot missile southern Iraqintercepts Iraqi Scud AP Graphic


As of 7 a.m. EST

tary force with infantry, air de­
night Wednesday. The Ameri­attempt to strangle the Iraqi
fense, tanks, artillery, intelli­
can pilot was saved in a dra­army in Kuwait. public opinion, with bombing
gence, special operations forces their commander-in-chief, then 
matic rescue after his jet was and medical and logistics sup­Despite the crushing allied air mocked the allies, saying they from high altitudes," the news disabled by ground fire and he port. assau1t, Saddam Hussein re­fear a ground war. agency said. ejected over the gulf. portedly visited his troops on "The commanders said that It quoted Saddam as saying
"We are hitting them with all
The two crewmen of the Bri­the front lines in southern Iraq because of his (the enemy's) the battle would be decided by
assets available to us," U.S.
tish Tornado GR-1 fighter­and Kuwait on Wednesday. cowardice and fear of combat Iraq's superior will power and
Army Lt. Col. Greg Pepin said.
bomber are missing, British The official Iraqi News with the land forces, the enemy patience. "It is only a matter of
He estimated that more than 
sources in Riyadh said. 150,000 of the guards are "well Agency said Saddam's com­tried to avoid establishing any time before the enemy becomes The losses occurred as allied dug In" in Kuwait and southern manders discussed the latest serious contact ... and preoccu­
forces took advantage of clear-Iraq. developments in the war with pied itself, for the benefit of see GULF I page 8 
SUFR hopeful for talk with office of Student Affairs 
By KATE MANUEL to be there Tuesday." News Writer Father Peter Rocca, the assistant vice president of Student Services in the Office 
Editor's note: This is the first of a of Student Affairs, said that O'Hara, who three part series examining the newly­will be out of town at a meeting until formed campus minority coalition Stu­Monday, did write a letter to a member of dents United for Respect (SUFR) SUFR. 
When the demonstrators came to her While next Tuesday's meeting office on Martin Luther King Day, O'Hara 
between Patricia O'Hara, vice president had said she would need to look into of Student Affairs, and members of the SUFR's organizational status in du Lac, group Students United for Respect Rocca said. 
(SUFR) may not be held when O'Hara did not want to call off next scheduled, both sides hope a discussion Tuesday's meeting, said Rocca, but she 
about the situation of minorities at probably thought it best to do so after Notre Dame will occur soon. checking the appropriateness of such a The upcoming meeting was scheduled meeting in du. Lac and finding it 
in response to the demands of inappropriate. demonstrators who had crowded the O'Hara has suggested that SUFR apply 
Student Affair's office last Monday, for official recognition through Student 
Martin Luther King Day, seeking an Activities and she is certainly willing to 
open forum for discussing minority talk about minority issues and demands 
issues. with students, s~id Rocca. 
Last Wednesday, after a meeting had Because O'Hara has been told that SUFR been scheduled, however, members of is a coalition of ethnic organizations SUFR say they received a letter from already recognized on campus, he said, O'Hara in which she cancelled the she is planning to meet with the officially meeting because Student Affairs does recognized ethnic groups on campus and not recognize SUFR as an official believes that basically the same people University organization. would be in attendance at either type of 
SUFR members said that O'Hara had meeting. agreed earlier in this school year to "Every year we (the minorities on meet with groups of students concerned campus) have become more of a cohesive about minority issues. SUFR said it is group. This year we decided to be more such a group of concerned students and aggressive to meet our needs and that O'Hara's cancellation of the concerns. This year we decided to come meeting is another evidence of together as a coalition under a name "disrespect" toward minorities by the (SUFR). That's the only difference-the 
The Observer 1E. G. Bailey 
Administration. name," said Robert Price, a Notre Dame
Operation snow storm 
"We are still planning on having that alumnus, who is a SUFR spokesperson. meeting Tuesday," said one SUFR Representatives of SUFR describe it as a
Thousands of miles away from the conflict in the Middle East, sophomores Bill Carey 
member. "She made a public
(Navy ROTC) and Kevin Prendeville make their way to classes despite significant see SUFR I page 4 
commitment and we are ~xpecting her
drops in temperature, increases in wind chill. 


page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
I want my cable TV for CNN, of course 
The other day plopped down on the couch in my room and flipped on the TV to see what was on. To my utter dismay, all three {count 'em, three) television sta­

tions in South Bend 
Rich Kurz 
were showing -soap operas. . Sports Copy Editor 
Just over a week ago, the Villanova Wildcats, one of my fa­vorite college basketball teams, were play­ing the Georgetown Hoyas on national TV­except the game was on ESPN. This meant I had to sit by my phone and call a sports line every few minutes to get an update on the 
score. 

And then, last Wednesday, the war in the Persian Gulf erupted. After a few days, the three major networks went back to regular programming, leaving us to find ou~ infor­mation only when the networks decided to break in and update us. 
Meanwhile, CNN was continuing its cover­
age of the situation. CNN is, of course, the 
Cable News Network, the most thorough 
news agency on television-and it's avail­
able only on cable. With the crisis continu­
ally developing, and with college-age ~eople 
having potentially the most to lose (If, for 
instance, a draft were implemented), it 
seems logical that we be given the chance to 
subscribe to cabJe television. 

I have seen ads in this very paper that 
CNN is being broadcast in Theodore's _dur­
ing LaFortune's business h?u:s. ~hil~ I ap­
plaud this effort, Theodore s IS qmte mcon­
venient. It would be much simpler if all we 
had to do was turn on the tube to see the 
latest update. 

Besides, the availability of CNN in 
Theodore's raises some questions. If cable 
is available in LaFortune, why can't any of 
the dorms on campus receive it? Planner 
and Grace are already wired for it, and ru­
mors abound that dorms undergoing reno­
vation are being wired. 

The cost would only be a few dollars a 
month, within the budget of nearly every 
student here, and the benefits would be 
enormous. From an intellectual perspective, 
CNN would be a boon to anyone interested 
in current affairs, while other channels 
show educational shows about the arts and 
sciences, presenting new perspectives for 
students. 

The entertainment aspect would be a re­
freshing change from the usual monotony 
of daytime television as well, enabling stu­
dents to see some movies, the newest videos 
on MTV, and yes, more basketball games. 
Other universities already have cable, and 
friends at tiny Earlham College in central 
Indiana were surprised to learn Notre 
Dame doesn't have cable TV. 

It is far past time for the Administration 
to offer cable television to the students of 
the University of Notre Dame, to give us a 
chance to broaden our horizons, watch 
more entertainment than is possible on 
regular television, and to keep up to date 
with a situation that affects all of our 
lives-the war in the Persian Gulf. 

Ihe Obset:Ver_. 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Thursday's Staff 
Production
News 

Melissa Cusack 
Peter Loftus 
Jeanne Blasi 
Graphics Mike Muldoon 
Systems
Accent 
Cesar Capella 

Robyn Simmons VIewpoint
Paul Froning

Charmaine Martinez Michael Krause Michelle Devers Becky Pichler
Circulation
Paul Pearson Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak 
Sports Rolando de Aguiar 

Photography
Ken Tysiac 
Sean Farnan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 
COLD Pressure 
® © 
HIGH LOW 
Friday, January 25, 1991
The Observer 
WEATHER 

Forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 25. 
Lines show high temperatures. 
20 10 
WARM STATIONARY 
A radio show featuring Roots Music Karamu with Azikiwe Chandler, reggae and other music rooted in Africa and the Caribbean will air Friday, from 5-7 p.m. on WVFI AM 640. 
Lyons Hall has changed the time of its Sunday liturgy from 4:30-11:30 p.m. An invitation is extended to join the Lyons community on any Sunday. 
Anyone interested in helping out with Senior Month, please submit name, phone number, and area of interest {Programming, Publicity, etc.) to the Senior Class Office by Monday. 
Graduate Student Teaching in University Educa­tion is the subject of the first· Graduate Student Union Professional Development Workshop on Monday from 7-9 
p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium. All graduate students interested in teaching should at­tend. 
WoRLD 

About 1,500 people rallied Thursday night in Hong Kong outside the Chinese news agency office to protest the trial in Beijing of Wang Dan, a ke~ stu~ent leader of the 1989 pro-democracy movement m Chma. The protesters carried lighted .c~ndle~ a~d sho?ted .slo­gans demanding the release of Jailed dissidents m Chma. Wang, one of the student leaders most sought after by Chinese officials after the democracy move-?Ient was crushed, went on trial Wednesday after spendmg nearly 20 months in jail. 
Yesterday's high: 17 
Yesterday's low: 13 
Nation's high: 83 
(Homestead, Fla.) 
Nation's low: -32 
(International Falls, 
Minn.) 
Forecast: 

Increasing cloudiness J 
and cold today with a 30 · 
percent chance of snow toward evening. Highs around 20. Cloudy and 
not as cold tonight with a 70 percent chance of snow, possibly accumu­lating 1 to 3 inches. Lows 5 to 10. Partly cloudy and cold tomorrow with highs in the middle 20s . 
©1991 Accu-Weather, Inc_ 
~~~~ [I]
~ ~ 



SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
------------.-----------:------­
OF INTEREST 
There will be a mandatory meeting for Iceberg Debate team captains .on Monday at· 7 p.m. in the Library . Auditorium. All debaters are also welcome. Topics for the first two rounds will be distributed. 
Of interests are free. one time events of general in­terests. The deadline for submission is 1 p.m. the day prior to when the Of Interest is to be run. Formn are available in the Observer office. We are not able to accept Of Interests over the phone. 
A discernment group has begun for young wom.en who would like to come together for share, pray, and dis­cern for what they are being called. For more informa­tion call the Sisters of the Holy Cross from 8-4:30 p.m.,Mo~. -Fri., at 284-4466. Ask for Sister Zugish and Sister Patrice Reily. 
Fourteen armed Soviets were killed trying;o cross the border into Czechoslovakia, a parliamentary deputy was quoted as saying Thursda~; "Some 50 armed people attempted to cross the border, deputy Peter Ku­lan told the CTK news agency. "The attempt was halted while they were still on Soviet territory and_ allegedly cost the lives of 14 people." Kulan gave no details on when or how the deaths occurred. Martin Fendrych, the Czechoslovak Interior Ministry spokesman, said he had no official information on the shootings. There were uncon­firmed reports of a similar incident on the Soviet-Hungar­ian border last month. 
NATIONAL L~uisiana's ele~tr~c chair w_mecessar~y burns and One in four medical interns surveyed at the Uni-mutilates the people It kills, an engmeer testified Thurs-'t of California at San Francisco said they were day in a challenge to state executions as cruel and v~rs~ \vith needles contaminated by the AIDS virus in a unusu<I;l punis~ment. The engineer, Jo~n Webster, was the ~~~onth period, said a study released Wednesday. Abo~t first witness m a federal court hearmg on whether the · rcent of interns who responded to the survey said
25

chair is' so badly designed that Robert Wayne Sawyer th pe ere stuck by HIV-infected needles during the period shouldn't be executed in it for torturing and kjlling a j.~ ·n January 1989 said the study. The study was woman in 1979. Web~ter criticized the. shape, of a big, ~~n~ed 1out to reporters ~t a news confere.n~e called by a curved electrode that IS strapped. to an mmate s head to union representing San Francisco physicians, medical carrv a 2.000-volt blast to the bram. and the placement of t d nts nurses and other health-care workers. 
a second electrode below the knee. 
CAMPUS 
Effective Jan. 1 through March 15 special guidelines are in effect for parking in any fac­ulty/staff lot. All vehicles .an~ to be rem~ved from faculty/staff lots before m1dmght each mght. Ve­hicles left in faculty/staff lots will be towed at the owner's expense to another University parking area. The exception to the time in which vehicles are to be removed for towing will be the B2/C2 lot east of the Hesburgh Library. Towing will com­mence from that lot shortly after the Library closes. Vehicles will also be towed from all roadways, sidewalks, loading zones, time zones and traffic circles. 
s u e • 
MARKET UPDATE 

NYSEindex 182.64 
S&P Composite A 334.78 1!' 4.57 Dow Jones lndustrialsA 2,643.07 -u-24.01 
Precious Metals Gold +$5.40 to $373.50/oz. 
Sliver +14.7¢ to $3.761/oz. 
ALMANAC 
On January 25: 

eln 1908: Five San Francisco sci­entists photographed the corona of the 
sun. eln 1949: The first Emmy awards for outstanding television program­
ming were given. eln 1956: Khrushchev said he be­
lieves President Eisenhower is sin­cere in his efforts to abolish war. eln 1959: The first transcontinental 
jet flight took place. The fare from Los Angeles to New York was $301. 
eln 1980: The U.S. inflation rate reached the highest pint ever in 33 years. 
Friday, January 25, 1991 The Observer Page 3 
GSU to conduct workshop to train teaching assistants 
By SARAH VOIGT News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union has organized a workshop de­signed to train the increasing numbers of graduate students who work for the University as teaching assistants and re­search assistants. 
The Professional Develop­ment Workshop Program will be composed of five sessions during the week of Jan. 28. 
Graduate student Peter Berg, a member of the four person committee that planned this workshop, said that GSU is taking the lead in the hopes of presenting a model to the Ad­ministration for improved training of TAs and RAs. 
Edna Hidekel, chair of the GSU committee, said that graduate students suggested the need for this workshop. She explained that the program will also complement the Univer­sity's mission to improve and expand its research capabili­ties. 
Hidekel said that teaching graduate students at Notre Dame have never before been offered formal teaching, testing and grading instruction. "Graduate students here must walk into the classroom the . first day with no teacher train­ing. Other universities offer as much as one month of teaching training before classes begin," Hidekel said. 
Arsene Balih uta, another member of the GSU committee, said that as full-time professors devote more and more of their time to research, the need for teaching assistants will in­crease. "The GSU has antici­pated this phenomenon with 
the  formation  of  this  
workshop," Balihuta said.  
The  Administration  is  

cosponsoring the event with the GSU. "The Administration has been more than supportive. Fa­ther Malloy and Timothy O'Meara (Provost) have agreed to speak on the final session," Hidekel said. 
The committee has commis­sioned Michael Salemi, profes­sor of economics at the Univer­sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, to speak on the role of graduate student teaching at the first session on Jan. 28. Salemi has run a teacher train­ing session at the University of North Carolina for twelve years. 
George Lopez, associate pro­fessor of government and in­ternational relations at Notre Dame, will offer teaching skills and helpful hints on Jan. 29. Luis Fraga, director of gradu-. ate studies and associate pro­fessor of government and in­ternational relations, will speak on effective testing and grading strategies the following evening. 


The Observer I Macy Hueckel 

Service groups recruit 
Over 40 services and social action groups, including Recyclin' Irish and Red Cross, were represented at the Center for Social Concerns Activities Festival. The fair was held to provide information and and opportunities to become involved in various campus service organizations. 
SMC to enact new student constitution 
By RENEE YOUNG News Writer 
On February 21, with the election of a new Saint Mary's Student Body President, a new student government constitu­tion will go into effect, accord­ing to Vice:.President of Student Activities, Maureen Lowry. 
Applications are now being accepted for the position of_ · · 


Editor-in-Chief 1991-92 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Alison Cocks by 5 p.m., January 25, 1991. 
Further information is available from Alison Cocks at The Observer, 239-7471. 
The new constitution was ap­proved unanimously yesterday by the Board of Governance. The new constitution's main goal is to cut down on overlap, leaving the Board of Gover­nance to deal strictly with is­sues and the Student Activities Board, which will take over the Board of Student Affairs, to handle the planning and execu­tion of all activities, said Stu­dent Body President Kathleen Schmidt. 
The constitution provides for three boards: 
•Board 
of Governance, chaired by the Student Body President; 

•Student 
Activities Board, chaired by the Vice-president for Student Affairs; 

•Residence 
Hall Association, chair to be elected by the board. 



ROFFLER SORBIE 
The constitution creates a Residence Hall Association, which will consist of the hall board, resident directors, resi­dent advisors and a representa­tive of the Hall President's Council. The association will deal with issues of the hall such as smoking and quiet hours, leaving issues of the entire campus to the Board of Gover­nance. 
The association will be a chapter of the National Resi­dence Hall Association. Mem­bers will attend various na­tional conferences throughout the year to gain new ideas on promoting hall unity. 
In order to promote campus unity, a chair from the office of minority, international and non-traditional students (MINT) 
see SMC I page 4 
PHONE (219) 233-4957 

PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS 
ROCCO'S STYL£ SHOP 
531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN 
MEN & WOMENS STYLING 
CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR



GSU.
TEACHING 
--=:=== 

RESEARCH 
WORKSHOPS 


Dr. Michael Salemi Graduate Student Teaching The Role of Graduate Student Teaching in University Education 
Monday, January 28th at the CCE from 7-9 p.m. l hr. general session and I hr. discussion groups 





. . 
. 

page 4 The Observer Friday, January 25, 1991 
Rocca said that a policy cov­the University, for approval, tions, Cassidy said, a variety of taken over by the Club Council ering harassment in any form O'Meara said. groups use Theodore's for dif­office," he said. is "undergoing University-wide He said, "I fully expect this ferent purposes, including tal­The BCAC was not left with­
SUFR 

discussion and consideration," process to be completed within ent shows, dances, receptions. out office space, said Stark. He 
continued from page 1 and that he has personally this semester." and lectures. said,"the BCAC was given office heard such a policy discussed Mu lti-cu lturaI gathering SUFR is also demanding that, space on the second floor of at a recent rectors' meeting. space by Feb. 6, their office be moved LaFortune, like the class offices 
"coalition of students who are Provost Timothy O'Meara A commitment to build a from its current "cramped club have." concerned about the situation said that the university has multi-cultural center providing closet" to the Club Room in Although he has not seen the of minorities on campus." Its been working on a racial ha­office space, congregational LaFortune (Room 207} which, office which SUFR calls a members include African­rassment policy, covering both space, library space, lounge according to a SUFR press re­"cramped club closet," Stark American, Native Americans, written and verbal harassment. space, an auditorium, and lease, "is rarely used and which said it is probably much the Hispanics, and some white He also said that O'Hara would study rooms is being demanded was once the old BCAC (Black same size as the other offices students. Price will serve as a be speaking on the formulation from the Administration by Cultural Arts Council} room." on the second floor of LaFor­spokesperson for SUFR which of a written harassment policy SUFR. "The Club Room was the old tune and that very few clubs prefers to speak as a group and when she returned to Notre SUFR members said that the BCAC room. The Administra­are able to have permanent of­not as individual members. Dame. multi-cultural center would be tion claimed it was noi being fices. 
The group has been opera­He said, "such a (racial ha­available to all students and used; it was being used by the "I would assume it's like the tional over the past year, hold­rassment} policy was drafted that it would not be a place BCAC. In effect it was taken other offices on the second ing meetings and writing open under the auspices of a com­wl)ere ethnic groups would from us and we question floor, basically the same size. letters to the administration. mittee under Eileen Kolman, withdraw, separating them­whether it is being used now. You could count on two hands 
Racial harassment policy now the Dean of the Freshman selves from the rest of the stu­There are places like the Club the number of clubs, of the over 
The finalization and submis­Year of Studies, when she was dent body. They also said that Room and the Food and Drug 180 clubs that we have on cam­sion of a racial harassment assistant provost." the center would help in pro­Room that no one has heard of pus, that do have permanentpolicy, for inclusion in du Lac, This policy incorporated two moting genuine cultural diver­or uses; they are taking up offices," said Stark. by March 19 is one of the de­conflicting values, freedom of sity, rather than just cultural valuable space that could be While actual club offices are mands which SUFR presented speech and the concern that visibility, at Notre Dame. used," one SUFR member :;aid. assigned through the Student to the Administration on Mon­females and ethnic minorities Until such space is ready, The Club Room was not seen Activities Office, Stark said the day. should not be physically or ver­SUFR wants the freedom to as being used by the BCAC, and Club Council does have four 
The Administration had bally abused, he said, and these hold events at Theodore's with­it was given to the Club Coordi­empty desk and filing cabinets agreed to the formulation of conflicts have been discussed out the presence of a D.J. and nation Council when the in its office which it assigns to such a policy two years ago, among the deans, the Univer­without monetary restrictions. Council was created last year, clubs which are seeking a placeafter a professor made racially­sity Administration, and mem­Joe Cassidy, director of Stu­said Jeff Stark of the Club to work during the day, rather insensitive comments to a bers of the Faculty Senate. dent Activities, said that such Coordination Council. than a permanent, secure office student, said a SUFR member. The Faculty Senate is now use of Theodore's by SUFR "Up until last year the Club where they can store a com­Since that time, this SUFR discussing and making recom­would be entirely possible, de­Council did not exist; prior to puter.
member said, the Administra­

mendations about harassment pending upon what other plans that time, the room we now oc­tion has neither formulated a policy. From the Faculty Senate had been made for Theodore's cupy was used by the BCAC as Monday The Observer will racial harassment policy nor the verbal harassment policy that night. a lounge. As far as anyone examine the iss.,.es of the Office mentioned any progress in will go to the Academic Council, Although most uses of could tell. the room was not ofMinority Student Affairs and formulating one. the highest academic body in Theodore's are for social func-used that often and it was academic issues. 
department representative and approved by the department SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS
SMC 

chair. In previous elections, continued from page 3 members were appointed solely by the chair. APPLICATION DEADLINE -FEB. 7 has been added to the Board of 
By having existing members 
Governance. This chair will select their successors·, the 

deal primarily with racial board hopes to cut down on $1400.00 SCHOLARSHIP concerns of the campus. 
time initiating members so they
The constitution also deals can immediately fulfill their 

ND students only
with a new voting procedure 

purpose, which is to representfor hall boards. Elections will and act upon the views of the take place before room picks in 
Saint Mary's student body in Eight weeks of service work 
February. A candidate chooses 

relation to the academic affairs during the summer 
a hall to run for and if she 

of the college, said SAC chair wins, she is guaranteed a room Maggie Belin. 
in that hall. In cities of ND Alumni Clubs across the US
Schmidt said she hopes the Along with the new constitu­new constitution will help stu­tion. a new election process for 

dent government and the Stu­Information meeting Jan. 28. 6:30 pm
the Student Academic Council dent Academic council to be­

(SAC} was approved. Members come more efficient in provid­

will be selected by the existing Center for Social Concerns
ing for all students needs. 
Sacred Heart Church Mass Schedule CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* 
Saturday, January 26 
*C. B. S. 
5:00pm Fr. Richard Wamer, C.S.C. 
Ecumenical Bible Study Sunday, January 27 Tuesday, Jan. 29, 1991 
10:00 am Fr. ·Richard McBrien, C.S.C. 
and every Tuesday
11:45 am Fr. Richard Wamer, C.S.C. 
Meetings: 7:00 P.M. one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) in the Conference Room
: 

•i of 
Campus Ministry Badin Hall
i

: Directed by: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, C.S.C. For additional information call:
• 

239-6633 or 239-5955 
Jll COMEDY BY 
Graduate Students, Undergraduate Students,
JOSEPH KESSELRING 
International Students and \Vashington Hall : Members of the Notre Dame Family: invited to attend 
Performances will be Thursday January 24 through • the 26th at 8:10p.m. and a special Sunday matinee on the 27th at 2:10 £.m.
........ ...........1
~ 


'I 
. ~ . The Observer page 5
Friday, January 25, 1991 
NO to establish energy center aiding local industries 
local manufacturers. efficiency of energy use.
By FRANK RIVERA 
News Writer The center will employ ND Not all manufacturers are el­engineering students, under the igible, though. With help from the U.S. De­supervision of University fac­According to center director, ulty, to visit plants, analyze John Lucey, associate professor
partment of Energy, the Uni­versity of Notre Dame will process operations and energy of aerospace and mechanical engineering, those industrial
establish an energy analysis use and provide both energy 
management information and firms within the Standard In­
and diagnostic center to help technical assistance to improve dustrial Classification Code 20­


ATradition ofHoliness 
Holiness and Moral Virtues 
jean Porter, Department ofTheology 
S11nday, Febr11ary 3 

Models ofHoliness in the Tradition of the Church 
Lawrence Cunningham, Department ofTheology 
S11nday, February 10 . ._ .
. .... 

The IgnatianWay ofHoliness 
Keith Pecklers, S.J., Graduate Student, Depat1ment of Theology 
Sunday, February 17 ·. .,. . .. 
Holiness in the New Testament 
john Donahue, S.J., Department of Theology 
Sunday, February 24 . · ·. .. . , 
The FranciscanWay ofHoliness 
Regis Duffy, O.F.M., Depat1mcnt ofTheology l'11nday, llarciJ 3 .· ,··· ·· · · 
".., -: -~ ' .. . 

Holiness and Psychological Integrity 
Dan L1psley, Depat1ment of Psychology 
39 are eligible for help if they meet at least three of the fol­lowing criteria: 
•A 
maximum of $1.75 million per year in energy costs at a particular plant; 

•A 
maximum of $75 million per year in gross sales for a particular plant; 

•A 
maximum of 500 employ­ees at a particular plant; 

•Or 
a lack of in-house pro­fessional expertise in energy use and a need for conservation at the particular plant to be served. 


"If they (firms) are larger than that, they have their own engineering staff, or they should," said Lucey. "So, they should be able to do it them­selves .... The chances are, their energy consumption is so low that we wouldn't be able to find enough savings to justify the cost of doing the audit." 
Lucey and fellow center or­ganizer, assistant director William Berry, associate pro­fessor and chair of electrical engineering, hope to increase plant efficiency in the small and medium sized manufacturers within a 150 mile radius, which the center will serve. 
"Typically, we expect $3,000 or $4,000 or more a year in savings," per manufacturer, Lucey said. 
When fully operational, the team of a "couple of graduate students and six or seven un­dergraduates, juniors or se­niors," will make 30 analyses per year, according to Lucey. 
The engineering students will be chosen from several inter­ested students. 
"We've had one session with students who might work with the program, and (we will) se­lect down to the six or seven that we'll use," said Lucey. "It is a question of their ability and availability." 

To be "available", students must be willing to spend their summers working, since much of the analyses will be per­formed during the summer. 
The students will be paid a "student stipend, like a grader's (stipend}", by the center. In addition, credit for a required course may be fulfilled. 
"The audit reports the stu­dents, at least the mechanical engineering students, do will satisfy the design requirement that is included in the design course that mechanical engi­neers have to take," said Lucey. 
The center, which will be lo­cated in renovated offices in Cushing Hall of Engineering, is not the only one of its sort, ac­cording to Lucey. There are 13 to 15 such centers on university campuses around the country, all funded by the Department of Energy. 
"They are administered by the University Science Center in Philadelphia," said Lucey, "but they're just a contractor for the Department of Energy." 
The $46,000 grant, applied for last July and awarded in November, ends on Oct. 1, Lucey said, he "would expect it to be renewed at a somewhat higher amount, because it will cover (costs) for a full year." 
Lucey hopes to begin opera­tion soon. 
"We've got to line up the stu­dents who are going to work with us and get them trained first," said Lucey. "I expect we'll start visiting manufactur­
see ENERGY I page 7 

7-8:30 pm, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Sponsored by C~unpus Ministry F<)r ftu1her information call (Z\MPUS Sr. Mary Curran, c.s.c., 239-5242 

MINISTRY 
Campus Ministry, Badin Ifall 

___________All are welcome 

( 
i 
' 
.!:!.r·.·-·· -. :;;:.,.. . 

The Lord's pronzise is that He is in our nzidst when we gather in prayer. Strengthened by this conviction, we 
beseech the Risen Christ to fill the world with His peace. We call upon Mary, the first disciple and the Queen 
of Peace, to intercede for us and for the peoples of our tinze... (The Challenge of Peace, ~ 292) 

A CALL TO PRAYER 



FOR PEACE 
This Friday, and every Friday while the war lasts, we invite you to join in a special Mass 
·, for Peace which will be celebrated at Sacred Heart Church at 5:15 p.m. f.· 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 25, 1991 -5:15 P.M. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., Celebrant and Homilist 
The tragedy of war has brought suffering and loss to many homes and families in countries throughout the world. 
Let us join our voices to the many pleas of men and women of good will who pray for peace. 
Let us also remember in a special way the victims of war in Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and those from our own country. 
At Notre Dame, we are particularly aware of the anxiety felt by parents, family members and friends from 
our faculty, staff and recent graduates who fear for the safety of these loved ones who are involved in this 
war: 

Kevin O,Brien 
Sean Reilly Mary Pat Hcnahan Goverkar 
Allen Hunt Pat Timon 
Bob Henks Carl Gebo 
Joseph Bile Peter Murphy 
Javier Martinez Navy Lt. James Jenista 
Mico Holguin Peter VanEs 
Christine Glavin Diane Fain 
Alexander Navaro Arthur Navaro 

Please let us know of additional names missing from this list. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 103 Hesburgh Library 




................................~....................----~--------------~~--~--------------------------------~ ------~.­
Friday, January 25, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Fraudulent scholarship service is put out of business 
Energy 
from students and parents who wanted more information. After receiving numerous complaints, an official complaint was filed with Notre Dame Security and action was taken, Russo said. 
On March 28, 1990, Sgt. Dennis Navarre of ND Security and students Jim Marks and Brenda Buck, then seniors, and then-sophomore Bill Blanford testified at a Postal Service administrative hearing in Washington D.C. 
The hearing was called to hear a complaint against ACFA, NSRA, and Michael Pousti and Ramin Niakiani, directors of the companies. As a result of the hearing, the Postal Service issued the order forbidding the companies from receiving busi­ness-related mail. 
Russo said that the Postal Service (and not a criminal court) went after the organiza­tion because their practices 
continued from page 5 
ing factories within a month, or so." The center's opening does not stem from the possible energy 
roblems that may arise from 
he Persian Gulf War, but 
the long-lasting concern with conserving energy. 
"You don't have to dig too deep into a newspaper to real­ize that energy is becoming a problem again," said Lucey. "If were legal, yet still deceptive. 
"These organizations are big­time operations," said Russo. "They had some prominent Washington lawyers represent­ing them." 
He added that the organiza­tion that ran ACFA and NSRA is not alone. 
"There are hundreds of them out there," he said. "I get mail from them all the time." 
Russo reiterated that the best source for financial aid infor­mation is the Office of Financial Aid and that the only way stu­dents can be sure of the au­thenticity of an offer is to check with the Office. 
As a rule, Russo said, "If an offer sounds too good, it prob­ably is." 
these concerns are able to save energy, they save money and increase their profit margin." 
In addition to increasing effi­ciency among manufacturers, organizers hope the center will create a stronger climate for economic development in the region. 
"We serve the industry. We serve the community. We build reasonably good relationships between local industry and community and the University," said Lucey. "We're trying to be all things to all people." 
American ~e_art &,.:. Assoc1ahon ~.. 


The Center for Social Concerns 
University of Notre Dame 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS (For Information: 239-5293) 

NOTE: During this semester the Center offers its resources to the Notre Dame community for education and reflection on issues of war and peace. 
Feb. 21 -Thursday CSC Community Service Commissioners Meeting Jan. 28 -Feb. 1 Black Cultural Awareness Week 
4:30p.m. Jan. 30 -Wednesday CSC Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
Feb. 22 -Friday Friday Fonun for faculty and staff4:30p.m. 
12:15 -1:00 p.m. Jan. 31 -Thursday Hospitality Lunch to benefit Dismas House 
Feb. 25-28 African Studies/CSC Film Festival 11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
8:00-10:30 p.m. Jan. 31 -Thursday CSC Community Service Commissioners Meeting 
Mar. 1-3 Campus Ministry/CSC 4:30p.m. 
Relreat for Seniors 

Jan. 31 -Thursday Julian Bond Mar. 5 -Tuesday Washington Seminar Meeting 8:00p.m. Lecture: "Beyond the Dream" 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

Mar. 6-Wednesday Appalachia Seminar Meeting 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Feb. 1 -Friday Friday Fonun for faculty and staff 12:15 -1:00 p.m. 
Mar. 9-16 SEMESTER BREAK Washington Seminar Feb. 7 -Thursday Swnmcr Service Project Application Deadline 
Appalachia Seminar Cultural Diversity Seminar (Chicago) 
Feb. 13 -Wednesday Ash Wednesday Mar. 21 -Thursday Romero LectureFeb. 16 -Saturday JlDlior Parents Weekend 8:00p.m. Prof. Terry Karl, Dept. of Political Science. 
2:00 -4:00 p.m. CSC Open House 
Stanford Univ.• "Contemporary Implications of the Life and Death of Archbishop Romero"
Feb. 19 -Tuesday Washington Seminar Meeting Co-sponsored by IPSM and Kellogg Institute 7:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Mar. 22-Friday Friday Fonun for faculty and staffFeb. 20 -Wednesday CSC Community Service Commissioners Meeting 12:15 -1:00 p.m. 
4:30p.m. 

Mar. 28 -Thursday Hospitality Lunch to benefitFeb. 20 -Wednesday Appalachia Seminar Meeting 11:30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. Women United for Justice and Peace7:00 -9:00 p.m. 
Mar. 31 EASTERFeb. 21 -Thursday Hospitality Lunch to benefit the Center for the Homeless 11 :30 a.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Nurture Life Through Service 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Managing Editor 
An organization that al­legedly offered fraudulent scholarship services to over four million college students, including many at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, has been ef­fectively put out of business by a U.S. Postal Service order. 
The organization, which used the names National Scholastic Resources Administration, Inc. (NSRA) and Academic Council on Financial Assistance (ACFA), has lost all privileges to receive mail after the Postal Service found it guilty of engaging "in a scheme to obtain money through the mail by means of materially false rep­resentations," according to Postal Service documents dated Nov. 23, 1990. 
The order authorizes Post­

masters in Washington, D.C. and San Diego to hold all mail addressed to the two compa­nies and to return any mail which is found to refer to the sale of scholarship information. 
Company officials can exam­ine their mail at the post office, but a Postal Service employee must be present to determine if the mail relates to the business. All personal mail, however, can be delivered, according to the documents. 
Joe Russo, director of Finan­cial Aid, told students that scholarship services are not the best means of attaining aid. 
"Ninety-five percent of finan­cial aid can be attained through routine channels," he said. "It's not impossible to benefit from these scholarship services, but the best sources for financial aid are traditional" avenues like high school guidance coun­selors, the Office of Financial Aid and the local library, he said. 
Students from Notre Dame first received mailings from the two companies in Dec., 1989, according to Joe Russo, direc­tor of Financial Aid at Notre Dame. 
Colleges and universities across the nation also received these mailings. 
The mailings guaranteed a list of twenty sources of schol­arship money and at least a $300 return, providing the stu­dent pay $50, Russo said. Later mailings asked for $60. 
The information, if any, that students received was of "marginal value at best," said Russo. He estimated that over 7,000 students across the coun­try paid for the companies' ser­vices. 
When the mailings first sur­faced, the Office of Financial Aid was barraged with calls 


Neigh.borhood Study Help Progra111 
"WE NEED YOU" 
-Eric, Age 11, La Salle Park Center 

Jan. 23 -25 Dining Hall Sign -Ups (Lunch & Dinner) Jan. 24 CSC Activities Festival (7-10 pm: CSC) ..... ..::an. 27 Organizational Meeting (Spm: Library Auditorium.) 
Where ltearts and n1inds cottle togetl1er. 
The following events are sponsored, co-sponsored, or related to the Center for Social Concerns. They will be held at the Center unless otherwise noted. 

pageS OPERATION DESERT STORM Friday, January 25, 1991 




Saddam promises Iraqi superiority in ground war 
AP Photo 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) ­Iraq's battle commanders told Saddam Hussein on his front­line visit that the allies were re­lying on high-altitude bombing and avoiding a ground war out of "cowardice and fear," the Iraqi News Agency said Thurs­day. 
Saddam said during his in­spection tour Wednesday that the "forces of arrogance and evil" will never defeat Iraq and the allies will get "the punish­ment they deserve," INA said. 
It said the Iraqi president's visit coincided with heavy bombing of Iraqi targets along the fronts. 
On Thursday, allied war­planes pummeled Iraq for the eighth straight day. Baghdad radio said 25 raids took place by Thursday evening and that Iraqi gunners shot down seven allied warplanes or missiles. It gave no details. 
Operation Desert Storm 

spokesmen said Thursday two allied planes went down in combat over the previous 24 hours. 
Baghdad radio broadcast in­terviews Thursday with three men it described as two cap­tured American and one cap­tured Italian airmen. Because of poor reception of the broad­cast, their statements, moni­tored in Nicosia, were largely inaudible. 
One identified himself as Col. David William Eberly and said he was suffering from a neck injury. The interviewer quoted him as saying "many pilots are expressing their opposition to this war." 
A second identified himself as Lt. Lawrence Randolph Blake, 26, a carrier pilot. The Italian's name could not be made out. The British Broadcasting Corp. in London reported picking up an interview with a third Amer­ican, whom it identified as Maj. 

A soldier of the 4th Armored Division storms a trench during training exercises at an undisclosed location in the Saudi desert. Although ground forces have not yet been activated, there have been skirmishes between Iraqi and and Allied armies. 
Thomas Edward Griffith, 34, a navigator. 
There was no way of telling if the pilots were speaking under duress. 
Iraq has been parading its POWs in an apparent effort to boost the morale of the popula­tion. Iraq says it has moved some of more than captured 20 airmen to potential targets to serve as human shields. 
Washington has deplored the Iraqi action as a ''war crime," and demanded that Baghdad respect the Geneva conventions on treatment of prisoners of war. 
"We have ascertained that 20 aircraft from the Zionist entity have been flown to Saudi Ara­bia," the communique said. It claimed the allies had been so unsuccessful they had to "call on the Zionist entity to partici­pate in the conspiracy and ag­gression against Iraq and the Arab nation." 

·Americans sink Iraqi ship in Gulf 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP)­The U.S. Navy sank an Iraqi minesweeper Thursday, rescued 22 surviving crew members and captured 29 other Iraqis on a tiny Kuwaiti island, American officials reported. 
A second Iraqi minesweeper exploded and sank, apparently after hitting a mine while trying to escape, they said. 
At least three Iraqis were re­ported killed on Qaruh Island after they opened fire on a heli­copter rescuing the sailors, and the others on the island sur­rendered to U.S. forces. Qaruh is a sandpit 35 miles off Kuwait, 40 miles northeast of the abandoned Saudi border town of Khafji. 
The incident was the latest of several actions off Kuwait, where Iraqi patrol vessels are thought to have sowed mines to disrupt any plans by the allied 

ND Gulf group to march in Wash., D.C. 
Observer Staff Report 
Thirty-three members of Notre Dame's Gulf Crisis Action Group (GCAC) will travel to Washington today to participate in a march for peace and an end to the Gulf War. 
The GCAC will join other col­lege campus organizations and national peace groups (including the National Cam­paign for Peace in the Middle East, National SANE/Freeze: Campaign for Global Security, and Pax Christi USA) in a march this Saturday, according to ND freshman Chad Mohler. 
In a statement released yes­terday, the GCAC called for an immediate cease-fire in the Gulf War and the subsequent 

Iraq's Front Line Ta~k Defense 
The Iraqis have fortified the Kuwait-Saudi border from the Gulf coast to Wadi ai-Batin in the west. This is the basic structure: 
15-foot berm Anti-tank ditch Razor-wire Iraqi 
cause tank to up to 25-feet entanglements T-55 tank dug expose vulnerable 
areas. 
filled with oil and flammable liquids to create a wall of fire. 
.....-----Areais 1/2 to 2 miles deep------.,. 
minefield 15-foot berm 

Sources: Jane's Defence Weekly AP/Martha P. Hernandez 
TURKEY 
SYRIA ,-· 
A IRAQ 
IRAN 
r­

KUWAIT 
Dhahran 

SAUDI 0 ,!, ARABIA Riyadh <' u.A.E. OMAN 


~~ 
f/11111( ­

Sea 
AP 
forces to invade Kuwait from the sea. 
The 51 Iraqis were put aboard the missile frigate USS Curts, Lt. Col. Phil Lacombe re­
establishment of a United Nations peacekeeping force in the region. 
"We feel that if these initia­tives are enacted at the present time, efforts at reaching a sig­nificant diplomatic settlement of the Gulf conflict would be greatly facilitated," according to a group statement. 
Mohler, the spokesperson for the GCAC, said that the group feels it's never too late for ne­gotiation and diplomacy to work. 
"Any efforts to end the Gulf War peacefully will set a prece­dent for future conflicts and will save lives," he said. 
Mohler stated GCAC's support for the troops in the Gulf. "We feel we should bring the troops ported. He said there were no 
U.S. casualties 

Qaruh is several miles east of the Dorra oil field, where U.S. forces raided nine offshore rigs last week that the Iraqis had turned into anti-aircraft posi­tions. 
A carrier-based A-6 Intruder sank the minesweepers Thurs­day, the Navy said. Two Ameri­can carriers, USS Midway and USS Ranger, are in the gulf, but spokesmen would not say which the plane came from. 
Details on the incident re­mained sketchy, but it appeared to be the same one British military officials reported earlier. 
A British spokesman, RAF Group Capt. Niall Irving, said the Iraqis tried to scuttle a minesweeper and two other craft were attacked and dam­aged by U.S. Navy aircraft. 
home, and that our support should lie in the effort to bring them home alive." 
The statement commented on the actions of Saddam. "As seekers of peace and conflict resolution, the members of GCAC vehemently condemn Saddam Hussein's attack on Kuwait and Iraq's bombing of civilian targets in Israel." 
The group also expresses its dismay over the the injury and death of the Iraqi people caused by the bombing raids of the United States and its allies. 
"Only by stopping the bombs from falling can we insure that our loved ones will come home alive," it said. 
Gulf 
continued from page 1 
convinced it has done all it can and that the Iraqis are deter­mined to confront it and tri­umph over it," he was quoted as saying. 
The news agency said that as of Tuesday, "only 90" Iraqi troops had been killed by the punishing allied bombing of Iraq and Kuwait. The allies have' not released casualty fig­ures from the aerial bombard­

. I 
ment . 
The dogfight that downed two Iraqi warplanes over the northern Persian Gulf on Thursday was one of the few such engagements of the war and the first report of an Iraqi attempt to enter Saudi airspace. 1 

Military officials in Dhahran said a Saudi pilot flying a U.S.­made F -15 shot down two Iraqi Mirage F -1 fighter jets. 
..1 just rolled in behind them and shot them down," said the pilot, who was identified only as Capt. Ayedh. 
A Saudi military spokesman, Col. Ahmed al-Robayan, de­scribed it as "an intense dog­fight over the coast" in which two Saudi F-15s tangled with two Iraqi F-1 Mirages and one of the Saudi pilots shot down both Iraqi planes. 
··we believe this is the first air battle of the war to produce a double kill by a single pilot," he said. 
Al-Robayan said the Iraqi planes, loaded with Exocet mis­siles and probably bombs. were shot down 12 miles inside Saudi territorial waters at 
12:35 p.m. The dangerous Exocets are used against ships. 
In May 1987, an Exocet mis­sile fired by an Iraqi warplane hit the USS Stark in the Persian Gulf, killing 3 7 American sailors. The attack occurred during the Iran-Iraq war, and Iraq said it had fired on the 
U.S. ship by accident. 
The British gave a slightly different account of Thursday's incident. In a briefing, Group Capt. Naill Irving of the Royal Air Force said crews of the HMS Gloucester and Cardiff de­tected the approach of three Iraqi jets -two MiGs and one Mirage capable of launching Exocet missiles. 

Two of the Iraqi planes were destroyed by a Saudi fighter aircraft, he said. The other dis­charged the Exocet out of range and fled. 
In another encounter involv­ing warplanes, Pepin said two Iraqi jet fighters turned away from dogfights with U.S. planes on Thursday. 
At the beginning of the war, hundreds of Iraqi planes re­mained in hardened bunkers on the ground or reportedly flew to airfields in northern Iraq to avoid dogfights with allied aircraft. But Pepin said the Iraqi air force is showing signs of life and that its aircraft have begun flying sorties in the past day. 
In a sobering assessment of the week-old war, Defense Sec­retary Dick Cheney said Wednesday that although U.S. and allied forces are doing very well, Saddam could still mount a massive air strike. 
The U.S. airman who was rescued after maneuvering his stricken plane over the gulf was saved by fellow airmen. 
.. ----------------------------------------.. ·----·-· ' ' •
1
...... .,. ·•··.­

~­
t 
--~----------~--------------~----~--~------------­
Friday, January 25, 1991 OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 9 

SMC professors discuss oil and Persian Gulf War 
By PATRICK HEALY market, and likewise with down the road" in Operation
News Writer 

South Africa over diamonds. Desert Storm. 
The United States is too de­Brauer stated that there has Miller said that the subver­pendent on oil, but Iraq's inva­been an "oil glut since the inva­sion of urban railroad systemssion of Kuwait would not have sion of Kuwait," and that "this by companies like Standard Oil had long term effects on oil will be the case in the future." and General Motors as well as prices, said two Saint Mary's He concluded by asking "if oil is the growth of national high­professors. not the reason, what is the rea­ways in the 1950's led to Amer­
In his lecture, "The War's Ef­son" for U.S. action in the Per­ica's dependence on the auto­fects on the U.S. Economy and sian Gulf? mobile. Miller said that trans­World Oil Markets," Jurgen Brauer said that if oil was the portation, largely made up of Brauer, visiting assistant pro­sole consideration for U.S. ac­autos, uses 63% of petroleum in fessor of business administra­tion against Iraq, "Mr. Bush has this country. 
tion and economics, said that no reason to go to war." Alternative fuels such as the events in the Middle East Joe Miller, associate professor compressed gas and methanol since the Iraqi invasion on Aug. of psychology, said that the U.S. are too problematic to be con­2 would have had little effect dependence on oil and the sidered as a substitute for oil, 
on the price of a barrel of oil in crisis in the gulf are interre­said Miller. Instead, Miller sug­the long run. Brauer stated that lated. gested raising efficiency stan­"oil is as cheap as it has been In his address, "The History dards on automobiles higher,
since World War II" and that of U.S. Dependence on Oil and using natural fertilizers in income since 1980 has risen Alternative Energy Policies," farming, and investing in wind faster than gas prices. Miller stated that the U.S. de­power and solar energy. 
Brauer said that the size of pendence on oil results in an Miller stated that the U.S. the price fluctuations for a influx of a tremendous amount was not pursuing solar and barrel of oil between twenty of petrodollars into the Middle wind energy as hard as the and forty dollars since the ini­East. These large oil profits are Japanese and European
tial invasion is not unusual for spent by these nations on nations who are beginning to any commodity, such as nickel weapons, dangerous invest­effectively implement these or bananas. ments because "historically this resources. 
The necessity of waging war area has many conflicts." The symposium, titled with Iraq over oil because it Precluding a history of U.S. "Energy and Economic Reper­controlled a larger percentage dependence on oil, Miller stated cussions of the Gulf War," was of the world's oil supply is "not that there has been a lot of talk co-sponsored by the Graduate 
clear," said Brauer. He noted "about smart missiles," but Student Union, Campus Min­
that the U.S. has not waged "not a lot about casualties." istry, the center for Social Con­
war with Brazil because of Miller predicted that our so­cerns and the Institute for In­
their domination of the coffee phisticated weapons "will fail ternational Peace Studies. 
Professors denounce war at Saint Mary's teach-in 

By ANNA MARIE TABOR Library. The CIA Handbook on Azar said. less enemies." alism. Christianity may lead 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Iraq called the country "the Azar expressed dissatisfac­To encourage students to take you in different ways and you cradle of civilization," having tion with the U.N. role in the an active role in the Middle cannot follow orders blindly.
"Are we 'kicking butt' or 

inhabitants for 5,000 years. conflict. As "an instrument of East, Azar stated that the crisis War should be fought as "ahaving a war?" asked Joseph Proofs of the existence of God peace" the United Nations needs "your voices because ev­last resort" and there is "still aIncandela, assistant professor have origins in Baghdad. The should "try to bring them to eryone's voice is important -debate over whether sanctionsof religious studies, at the Saint works of Plato and Aristotle civilized manners." Further­voices of peace." would have done their job. ButMary's Teach-In. 
were saved in that portion of more, "we (Arab countries) are Incandela doesn't know "how it's too late for that now," said A forum titled "Voices on the the world. not respected like other na­much Christianity owes to Arab Incandela. Also, the good ef­Middle East Conflict: Varying Half of the citizens of Iraq are tions. There has been no U.N. nations" but asserted that fects of a war must outweigh
Perspectives" lived up to its 
under fifteen years old. In this flag and violence has erupted. "there is much to be confused the bad effects, he added. 
promise in that the three 
case, Clark asked, "Who are we (Let's) get back to the principle about." 
speakers would touch bases in fighting?" why it started." "'Kicking butt' is a sorry According to Incandela, ex­the areas of philosophy, reli­Kahlil Azar of the Arab­Having lived in Kuwait for metaphor for war," he said. perts say that Saddam will losegion, and Arab perspective. 
American Club answered her several years and traveling "You don't hear that now. I've militarily. However, "if he saves Ann Clark, chair and associ­with a history of Baghdad and through Baghdad, Azar has had my butt kicked before and face, he will be a more ate professor of philosophy, what he described as the view­seen what is becoming a "great it wasn't pleasant. I've never powerful leader in his said she tends to "worry about point of Arab nations. Azar sees devastation." He sees the war been in war." followers' eyes, and if he loses 
abstract ideas-what philoso­
no justification for America as "just bombing (oil) re­Another point Incandela pre­face, his followers will phy is all about. They are dan­being involved in a problem sources" and said that Hussein sented was the sense of support remember (the loss) and seek 
gerous because they distance 
that "is between Iraq and should be "contained by sanc­that Americans give to troops. to avenge" his adversaries. 
you from what you're talking 
Kuwait." tions and negotiations to come The only "morally justifiable" 
about. We have to separate 
According to Azar, the Arabs to a peaceful conclusion." reason for war is that "you "I hope I am wrong about ourselves from the situation." 
wonder, "What business is it of By engaging in war, "we are view U.S. lives as so precious virtually all I've said," Incan­Clark also cautioned against 
theirs to be in our neighbor­working on his (Hussein's) that you wish they wouldn't dela remarked, "and that there taking an "ostrich position, 
hood?" He said that the United level," Azar stated. "Who pays fight and that Iraqi lives are so will be a redeeming purpose"head-in-the-sand" approach to States doesn't treat Eastern the price? Not Saddam. The precious that you wish they for this war. Even if there is, he 
evaluating the events in the 
European countries this way civilian peuple. Their stories wouldn't be killed. You are not views it as a catch-22 because Gulf. "Look at what is happen­and has employed a "double are not coming out to us. The necessarily agreeing" with the "even if Saddam loses, he may
ing to individuals. Look at 
standard" by launching a war civilians in the area (Baghdad) necessity of the actions. yet win. And if the United 
where (the United States') 
that is "racist, anti-Arab, anti­are under bombardment." To show patriotism, Incan­States wins, we may yet lose. 
money is going to," said Clark. 
Muslim" and pits the West Azar believes that Israel dela told his listeners to use the ,.
To provide background in­

against the Arabs. wanted the war for profits and privilege of "free speech." Be­"This war is being fought as a formation for the discussion, "What business is it of Amer­is using United States tax dol­ing Christian and American is a giant Nintendo game. This 
Clark took the initiative of 
icans to decide the price of oil? lars to solve problems. "Iraq is sometimes conflicting task, In­Nintendo phase will pass.
checking out the only book 
They don't decide what Toyota an enemy (of Israel) and if candela stated. "(Your) reli­Ground war will ensue," he about Iraq at the South Bend 
should charge for their cars," Saddam is destroyed, Israel has gious belief transcends nation-said. 
Bombs explode in Allied establishments in Greece 
ATHENS, Greece (AP) ­Three explosions rocked branches of U.S. and British banks and the home of the French military attache early Friday, police said. There were no reports of injuries and only minor damage, reporters said. 
A police spokesman said the first explosion was reported at 
1:29 a.m. at the Citibank branch in the residential Ha­landri suburb. Minutes later bombs went off at the Barclays Bank in another northern sub­urb and outside the home of the French military attache in central Athens. 
The police officer said no one had claimed responsibility for the bombings, and he declined to comment on their connection to the gulf war. 
British, U.S. and French warplanes have conducted thousands of bombing raids against Iraq, which has promised a global terror cam­paign against Western and al­lied targets. 
Greece deported eight Iraqis and Palestinians this week on national security grounds. It also expelled 23 staff members of the Iraqi embassy. 
Bombs exploded Wednesday morning at the Turkish offices of two U.S. organizations, and several bombings have been re­ported at British, U.S., French and Saudi institutions in Le­banon. None have caused casu­alties. 
'Operation Desert FAX' will send messages to soldiers in Persian Gulf 
Special to The Observer 
In order to sustain the morale of U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia, hundreds of thousands of Americans are preparing to send letters of support to friends and family stationed there. To help facilitate the delivery of the letters, AT&T and Mail Boxes Etc. are teaming up with Operation Desert FAX. 
AT&T started the Operation Desert FAX program around three months ago to provide a quick method to deliver letters to our troops. 
Because there are no AT&T Centers available in the Michiana area. people can bring their letter in to the Mail Boxes Etc. location on S.R. 23 (just East of Ironwood) and they will FAX the letters to the nearest AT&T Center in Portage, Mich. The letters will then be FAXed to Saudi Arabia and distributed just like ordinary mail. This will speed the delivery of the letter by about two weeks. 

"Two months ago, our store had a similar program called Operation Desert Santa in which we offered to help pay the postage for boxes destined for troops in the Middle East." said William Morgan, Mail Boxes Etc. manager. "Over 100 people took advantage of this program and one of them told me about Operation Desert FAX." Now Mail Boxes Etc. is a collection center for Operation Desert FAX. 
The types of messages that people can send are not limited to letters. Morgan 
· said. "You can send greeting cards. valentines cards, a short note, or even a child's crayon drawing. I suggest that people take advantage of this unique way of showing our troops that we support them and are thinking of them." 
• 



Viewpoint
page 10 Fri~ay, December 25, 1991 

LETTERS 

ND Right-to-Life group marched in Washington rally 
Dear Editor:  o'clock approaches they make  its march to the Supreme Court,  Union. Steubenville cancelled  piled in the bus and began the  
All over campus alrm clocks  their way back to Georgetown  myriads of signs were lifted in  classes to mark the anniversary  long journey through the night  
are going off. It is 6:00 am ­a horrendous hour to be getting  to attend Mass celebrated by Fr. King, the Georgetown Right-to­ to the air. Fifteen thousand Knights of Columbus signs  of the fateful Supreme Court decision and to allow their stu­ to arrive at campus at dawn. in time for Wednesday classes.  
up, especially on a Monday morning. A bit later, the stu­ Life advisor. Not far away another Mass has been offered  proclaimed "The natural choice is life." One neon pink poster  dents to attend the march. Hundreds of their students  "Why were you there?" they were asked upon their return.  
dents begin stumbling towards the Main Circle, bracing them­ by Cardinal O'Conner at the National Shrine.  board "Gays inscribed. A  for Life" bearded  was man  were present. Delegates arrived from Dallas and Boston College.  "Well, when little Kuwait is invaded by Iraq, the US sends  
f i,. I  selves against the cold January winds, eager to get on the United Limo which is to bear them away to Washington, DC. It will be a long journey, and they prepare to begin it with  January 22 dawned frigid and clear. As the students gathered at the rally to protest Roe vs. Wade they were met by a bitter wind. Fingers and toes quickly lost all sensation, but the sun's  walked in sandwich boards which told the world: "Anarchist, agnostic, and pro­life." Many bore painfully direct messages: "Abortion: one wounded, one dead," and  Pitt and MIT, Yale and Cornell. Fordham and Carnegie-Mellon, Vermont, New Jersey. Kentucky, Minnesota. Though holding diverse world views and political understanding, they  in 500,000 troops to defend them against aggression. In these past eighteen years, we've lost 24,000,000 of our own in the war on the unborn. These victims of violence need  
1  their hearts troubled twice over as they think back to last  light remained with them throughout the day. It was so  "Abortion: it tears a person up, inside." The green banners of  were united under one desire to end the sacrifice of pre-born  defense, and this also is a war that must come rapidly to ah  
~  week's violence in  Kuwait,  cold that a  D.C. weatherman  the Feminists for Life were ev­ human beings.  end."  
I !  combined with the ongoing vio­lence occurring daily within their own nation and through­out the world. As the bus pulls  claimed his dog froze to a fire­plug. All the Notre Dame marchers gathered beneath an immense yellow sign, provided  erywhere, announcing to all the presence of an alternative to mainstream feminism. "Feminists for Life: It's not an  At the end of "the march the students scattered throughout the congressional buildings to encourage their representatives  Cathy Olsen -Coordinator of NDISMC Right-to-Life trip to Washington Mary Lee Freeman-Editor of  
f  away from  Notre Dame all  by law sttident Jim Hogan, that  oxymoron, it's a redundancy,"  to vote pre-life and then re­ ND/SMC Right-to-Life  
I.  within begin a  Hail Mary for  spanned the entire width of the  one affirms.  turned to Georgetown to say  newsletter  
( (  our men and women in the Gulf and for all those suffering in  street. "Humans Are Persons Too -Notre Dame/St. Mary's  Pro-life groups descended on the Capitol from all over the  quick good-byes to new-found friends. After dinner they all  Maria Rhomberg -President. NDISMC Right-to-Life  
f i ( } I I ( } f ! I f t r { i I { ~ '  Kuwait and throughout the Middle East. The students are pro-life, and they are going to DC to voice their commitment to all life, marching to defend the lives of those who still face the possibility of a death coldly . deliberate and unnatural and to mourn those already lost. After twelve hours on the bus the students arrive in Georgetown, quite happy to be free to wander the cobblestone streets for a few hours before crashing on the floors of many a Georgetown student's apart­ment. Dinner conversations cir­cle about two central topics -the war in Iraq and abortion. The two tend to blend into one another, for the cruel aggres­sion against the innocent that has legally continued for eigh­teen years in abortion clinics has been made more clearly manifest in the incredible acts of violence on the part of Saddam Hussein. As eleven  Right-to-Life," it proclaimed. ''But what does that mean?" asked a passerby. "It is protesting the legal decisions that the unborn are human be­ings but not 'legal persons,' and therefore not entitled to protection under law, " a Notre Dame student explained. "It's good to see you again, Notre Dame!" someone yelled out. "So Notre Dame really is pro­life?" the students were asked. At first the students were sur­prised at the question, since they had always been present in the past, albeit without such a broad and colorful sign. But, as the question "Are you pro­life?" came up again and again -and again, they began to wonder why so many people were uncertain about Notre Dame's position on abortion. It is something for all of us to think about. As the mass of people began  Peace will occur only when U.S. implements policies which promote it Dear Editor: of peace. today, we are all witnessing the In his letter to the Viewpoint Continuous United States horror of a war in the Middle section (Observer, Jan. 21), Mr. funding of a murderous East, a war which certainly Bruce T. Lotz points out that Salvadoran government that could have been avoided. "peace cannot always be slaughters its own people I agree with Mr. Lotz when he obtained merely by wishing for contributes little to the cause of says that we should protest the it and chanting slogans." On peace (Just one week ago, 42.5 disease, not the treatment. He this point, I could not agree million dollars in military aid to tells us to "pray for a cure to more. Action must be taken if El Salvador was approved by the disease called Saddam peace is to be reached. Action George Bush). The bloody Hussein, and then world peace must be taken by our peoples; invasion of Panama by no will recover." Sadly enough. we action must be taken by our means contributed to a peaceful need not look all the way to governments. Sadly, though, the world. The emphasis that the Baghdad to find a hindrance to actions taken by the United United States government peace. An equally malignant States government in the past places on military spending illness plagues our world. We few years, especially creates potentially violent should pray for a cure for concerning foreign policy, have tensions, not only on a global George Bush, and then maybe proven not only fruitless in the level, but also on an internal "world peace will recover." furthering of peace, but, in one, because it de-emphasizes Carlos E. Lozada reality, have been highly domestic social programs Saint Edward's Hall counterproductive to the cause within the United States. And, Jan.21, 1991  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
OH, 50 YOU'R& 7HIS 00£-S Yt:ARS AGo, /AJHfN I HAD THE 


MR.HWLEY, I AM
J MAJ![), eDUCATe ME­MANWI7H51MPL.&P~, WHAT MAKE-SA Ya/NG MOST OF THeM CFP-5HORE, ! ~ Tijf?J( UK& YOUR5EtF ANPAU-OF TH&M e.KP/<?£5­TICK.? S/ON5 CFAUAH'5 tAJIU ... 
MY UF& HAS BEZN /1105ll,Y UNR£­
MA!<J<Aete, exe&PTfOf< A fflAJ 

A SIN@ GIJY, NOTTRAN5­HO/<KJR.OF RJBIAaY ext:a!TING 
OiAS8ANY IAT8-Wtti,, MY t<JIF/5 ANP H!31< tOVER. 
IV!3/t6?
\
,, 

'Chaotic action is preferable to orderly inaction.' 
Karl Weick 


Viewpoint

Friday, December 25, 1991 page 11 
President does not need a Congressional O.K. for war 
Rick Acker

In MiOp1mon 
Must the President get Congressional approval before sending American troops into combat? This is an important constitutional question, but one which has never been settled. Congress claims that the Constitution requires any major military action to be authorized by Congress. The President, on the other hand, has always claimed the Constitution gives him the right to do whatever he wants militarily without asking Congress. Because of the high stakes involved, neither the President nor Congress has ever been willing to take the case to court. 
The heart of the controversy over the war making power is in the Constitution itself. The Constitution, in Article I, sec­tion 8, clause 11 ~ gives Congress the power "(t)o de­clare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water." In article II, section 2, clause 1, however, the Constitution says that the "President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several states, when called into the actual Service of the United States." The framers of the Constitution appear to have meant these two provisions to split the war making power between Congress and the President. 
The problem is that a clever President can, in practice, take all the war making power for -himself if under constitutional system. All he has to do is exercise his power as ''commander in Chief" without ever asking Congress for a declaration of war. Historically, this is precisely what presidents have done when they didn't want to consult with Congress over the use . of military force. Congress has authorized war only six times in our history, but the President has ordered American troops into combat over 200 times. 


What can Congress do when a President uses force without getting Congressional ap­proval? Congress has three op­tions. 
First, Congress can complain but do nothing else. This is what Congress did when Presidents Reagan and Bush used force in Grenada, Libya, Lebanon and Panama. Indeed, this is the option which Congress has usually chosen when a president used force in a way which Congress disap­proved of. However, this course of action reduces Congress to 

Protestors ~fighting against the attitudes which cause war 
Dear Editor: 
Our country is now at war: a war officially dedicated to the liberation of Kuwait, but a war whose ultimate purpose is un­clear to the most well-informed observers. Many felt, before war broke out, that insufficient justification had been provided for our military response to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. Many now say, however, that the time for dissent is past, that, as we are now at war, it is time for Americans to close ranks be­hind the President and support our troops. I cannot accept this claim. If the war. was unjusti­fied before it broke out, it is all the more so now, and it is our duty to continue to protest against it. 
However, the full significance of the peace protests now tak­ing place across this country will be missed if we focus only on the question of whether the war against Iraq is justified. Even if it can be argued that by Jan. 16 there was no option but to drive Iraq from Kuwait by force, we must ask whether this situation, with all its terrible consequences, could have been avoided. Otherwise, we will be condemned to repeat the same mistakes one, five, or ten years from now. 
It is commonly held that Saddam Hussein brought war on his country by "refusing to negotiate." In fact, as Fr. Patrick Gaffney of Notre Dame's anthropology depart­ment pointed out in a brilliant presentation at South Bend's Hansel Center this Saturday, it is the Bush administration which has steadfastly refused to negotiate. Since the invasion 

of Kuwait, America has insisted 
on the unconditional satisfac­
tion of its demands, while 
offering nothing in return. Such 
is not negotiation! 
It will be objected that any 
concessions to Iraq after the 
invasion would amount to 
rewards for aggression. This is 
certainly true. It may also be 
argued that, after the invasion, 
Hussein would not have will­
ingly given up Kuwait no mat­
ter what concessions had been 
offered. This is likely true as 
well. But these truths conceal 
another. Prior to the invasion, 
Iraq and Kuwait were involved 
in a long-standing border dis­
pute, stemming ultimately from 
the British partition of the 
former Ottoman Empire in the 
early part of this century, 
which created the countries of 
the Middle East as we now 
know it. 
This dispute came to a head last summer, exacerbated by grave problems in the Iraqi economy. Iraq, heavily in debt to Kuwait after its long, drain­ing war with Iran, accused Kuwait of stealing oil from its oil fields and of undercutting world oil prices. As talks be­tween Iraq and Kuwait broke down and the threat of war loomed, the U.S. government stood by, taking an official stance of non-intervention in an inter-Arab dispute. How quickly this stance changed when the situation became one ofmilitary conflict. 
In short, the U.S. government kept out of the situation until it could argue that the time for negotiation had passed. Yet, surely we could have influenced the dispute before 
-·-··· .... .. ......-.... --,.......... --­
the role of heckling spectator whenever America gets into a shoving match abroad, which is probably not what the framers intended. 
Second, Congress can try to limit the President's Commander-in-Chief power by using the Congressional appro­priations power (i.e. not giving the President any money to pay for the bullets, fuel, etc., which he needs to fight). The practical political problem with this option is demonstrated by an incident around the turn of the century. A Republican president, Theodore Roosevelt, decided to send America's powerful new fleet around the world on a "goodwill tour." A Democratic Congress objected, saying the trip would cost too much and would offend for­eigners. Congress responded by giving Roosevelt only half the money he needed for the tour. Roosevelt sent the fleet on the to·ur and, predictably, it ran out of money half-way around the world. Roosevelt went back to Congress and told it that if it wanted the fleet 

LETTERS 

back, it would have to give him the other half of the money. If a president decides to use the military, it is politically very difficult for Congress to refuse to pay for it. 
Congress' final option is to pass a law putting some teeth into the Congressional power to declare war. Congress tried to do this when it passed the War Powers Act (WPA) in the early 1970s. The WPA, in a nutshell, says that 1) anytime American troops are placed in a situation where fighting is imminent the President must report to Congress within 48 hours, and 2) if Congress does not approve the use of military force within 60 days, the President must bring the troops home. The WPA passed over the veto of President Nixon and has been opposed by every President since Nixon as an unconstitutional infringement of the President's Commander-in-Chief power. 
There are two substantive constitutional problems with the WPA. First, if Congress ever tried to enforce the WPA in court, the court would probably throw the case out because of the "political question" doctrine. The Supreme Court has long held that policy disputes between "coequal branches of government" are "political questions" which the Court will not rule on. In other words, if Congress and the President disagree on policy questions, the federal courts may not intervene. The political question doctrine applies regardless of whether or not Congress has passed a law making the President's conduct illegal. 
Even if a Congressional attempt to enforce the WPA doesn't run afoul of the politi­cal question doctrine, there is a second constitutional problem: separation of powers. Any attempt by one branch of the federal government to take over a power or function of another branch violates the 
constitutional  principle  of  
separation of powers.  
The  WPA  is  clearly  an  

attempt by Congress to take over part of the President's Commander-in -Chief power. Under the WPA, the President is Commander-in-Chief of the 
, armed forces for 60 days. After that, Congress can, in effect, command American troops to come home if it disapproves of the President's actions. Because it usurps part of the President's Commander-in­chief power, the WPA is probably an unconstitutional violation of the separation of powers. 
Must the President get Congressional approval before sending American troops into combat? Probably not. Based on the constitutional principles outlined above, the President can circumvent Congress' power to declare war by exer­cising his Commander-in-Chief power without bothering to ask for Congressional permission. Congress' best way to remedy this situation is to pass a law giving teeth to its constitutional power to declare war. However, the War Powers Act, the only Congressional attempt to do this so far, is probably unconstitutional. 
Rick Acker is a second year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


been committed and an arrest has to be made-until someone has been killed or seriously injured. In choosing the role of police force of the world, America seems to have adopted a similar approach to international disputes. We will not intervene until a crime has been committed and an arrest must be made. Instead of acting to prevent wars, we wait until our only option is to go to war. 
As in the case of domestic violence, the cost of such a policy is great. And, as in the case of domestic violence, this cost will be born largely by the innocent-by innocent Kuwaitis terrorized by invading Iraqi troops, by innocent Israelis threatened by chemical attack, and by innocent children, women, and men killed and maimed in the bombing of Baghdad. 
On Dec. 28, we Catholics celebrated the feast of the Holy Innocents. Today, the blood of innocents flows again in the Middle East. We must demand an account from those who 
....... _. --......... .. ........................... -.
'~ ' 
the invasion, when negotiation was still a live option. We might have proposed a compromise in which Kuwait ceded to Iraq disputed islands in the Persian Gulf in exchange for Iraqi territorial concessions elsewhere. Perhaps we could have offered financial aid to the Iraqi government, to enable them to meet their loan payments to Kuwait and to re­build their economy, in ex­change for Iraqi promises to cease development and production of weapons of mass destruction. 
Such financial aid would have coast a fraction of the billions now being spent on the war. The possibilities here are endless. But surely American power and influence could have been put to work to try to bring about a peaceful resolution to the dispute. 
The Bush administration, however, is not interested in playing the role of mediator of the world's disputes. In the new world order, we are to occupy the more glamorous role of police force of the world. Our policy is not to intervene while negotiation and peaceful settlement are possible; we choose to wait until military intervention seems the only option. Then we can do what we do best-we can "kick some ass." 
This policy resembles a com­mon approach to domestic vio­lence. If family members argue and fight and the police are called, they respond that "domestic disputes" are not their concern. On this ap­proach, police will not intervene until a crime has 
would spill this blood. 
If, as I have argued, our pol­icy made war likely, indeed inevitable, when earlier inter­vention on our part might have helped to bring about a negoti­ated settlement, we must ques­tion this policy, and we must continue to do so now that the war has begun. We must ask why our country is so ready to settle disputes through the use of force and so reluctant to look for peaceful solutions. Ultimately, this is the message of the protests against the war in Iraq. We must protest not only this particular war, but also the attitudes and policies which helped bring it about. Otherwise, by accepting the role of enforcer of the new world order, we will see the scenario of the last six months played out, year after year, as we refuse to involve ourselves in "domestic disputes" until a "crime" has been committed 
and  an "arrest" has  to  be  
made.  
Michael Kremer  

Department ofPhilosophy ~ Jan. 21. 199 

.............s..........a..............L...............................a..........a•a....~....s•a.....s..........~.~ 
I. 
' 


e 

1 





Museum's second semester include Austin Collins' one rr 
By KATE KECKLER Accent Writer 
H 
as the·South Bend social life got you down? Have you . seen enough news briefs about the war in the Gulf? Then take a jaunt over to the Snite Museum of Art. This nationally recog­nized museum has a full calen­dar of exhibits and events which should interest even the most staunch couch-potato. 
This Sunday, there will be a public reception from 2 -4 p.m., commemorating the opening of the Annual Faculty Show (see story). 
"The Faculty Show is an op­portunity to show what the faculty members have been do­ing, and to give prospective art students the opportunity to see what the people they are work­ing with are doing," said Dou­glas Bradley, curator of ethno­graphic arts. "It gives students 

"Final Question" (pictured here) is one of the many sculptures on displal
a window into the type of 

One Man Show. Collins has had his sculptures displayed in places as far a
painter they might want to study with." and France; his work is repre-Reilly (ND Class of '63). Ac­
The faculty show also offers sented in the Patrick King cording to the Snite Museum much for the non-art student. Gallery in Indianapolis, Four-Event Calendar, this exhibit will Fourteen faculty members are teen Sculptors Gallery in New consist of 75 notable acquisi­showing works which cover a York, and Owen Gallery in tions. most never before shown. diverse range of color, shape, Chicago. The drawings date from the and style. Included are paint-. According to Collins, storage 16th to the 19th centuries, and ings, photographs, computer of the sculptures could be a provide a wide range of master generated graphics, textiles, problem. ''I've sold most of my works. ceramics, multimedia, and de­works on hand," he said. Also in April, the Snite will sign prototypes. Northwestern University, Loy-host the Annual Student Exhibi­
Concurrent with the opening ola, and Wabash College have tion. This juried show features of the faculty show is Father all purchased sculptures. The primarily Master of Fine Arts Austin Collins' One Man Show. upcoming exhibit will feature students, along with other se­Collins has been a member of his latest work, Steel Workers lected student artists. the Department of Art, Art His­Chapel. Along with the many special tory, and Design since 1985. His Beginning in April, the Snite events, students can take ad­large scale steel sculptures will feature "Drawings from the vantage of the many fine collec­have been shown throughout Reilly Collection," a group of tions the Snite has to offer. Ac­the United States, Yugoslavia, drawings collected by John cording to Bradley, "The names 



Panel discussion 
exam~ 

challenges career womc 

JANUARY 25-27 


weekend calendar 
f~
.. ~J~UY
:;::_;__ '_'-.?
':V" 

MUSIC John Kennedy & Seamaisin, Club 23, 9 p.m. Mere Mortals, Center Street Blu~s Cafe, 9:30 p.m. Bone Forest, McCormick's, 1 0 p.m. Sea Monkey Conspiracy, Bridget's, 1 0 p.m. Harvey & the Blues News, Alumni-Senior Club, 10 p.m. 
OFFCAMPUS .. "Lend Me a tenor,"Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.m. Ticket~ $11.50-$28.50. i 
THEATER "Arsenic and Old Lace," Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Tickets $3. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC Bye-Bye Johnny, Center Street Blues Cafe, 9:30 p.m. Jester, Club 23, 10 p.m. Sea Monkey Conspiracy, Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
Harvey I the Blues News, Alumni-Senior Club, 10 p.m. 
.EVENTS A Day of Women, Annenberg Auditorium, 9:15a.m.­5p.m. 
ART Opening Reception, Moreau Hall Galleries, Saint Mary's College, 7 p.m. 
OFF CAMPUS "Lend Me a Tenor,"Morris Civic Auditorium, 2 & 8 p.m. Tickets$ 11.50-$28.50 evening. $10.50-$24.50 matinee.i 
THEATER 

"Arsenic and Old Lace, "Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. Tickets $3. j 
s y 
MUSIC South Bend Symphony Chamber Orchestra, "Cello by Two," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2:30 
p.m. Tickets $13.75 adults, $5.75/$3 students. 
THEATER 

"Arsenic and Old Lace," Washington Hall, 2:10 p.m. Tickets $3. 

FRIDAY "Good Fellas," Annenburg Auditorium, 7 & 9:45 p.m. "Do the Right Thing,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m.~ 
SATURDAY 

"Good Fellas," Annenburg Auditorium, 7 & 9:45p.m. "Mo' Better Blues," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. • 
By ROBYN SIMMONS Assistant Accent Editor 

hat are the major issues that career women will face in the 
1990s? Several representatives from the Notre Dame and South Bend communities will discuss these concerns in a panel discussion as part of the Day of Women. 
The discussion, "The Situa­tion of Women in Different Fields," will be held from 1 to 
2:30 p.m. tomorrow in the An­nenberg Auditorium. The pan­elists will give brief descriptions of their occupations, and dis­cuss the wider implications of their fields in response to questions from the audience. 
The panel includes three Notre Dame faculty members: Teresa Phelps, associate pro­fessor in the Law School; Jean Dibble, assistant professor of art, art history and design; and Marcia Sawyer, assistant pro­fessor of history. Senior Kristen Stamile, an English major with a concentration in the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, is the only student on the panel. 

The three representatives from the South Bend commu­nity are Deanna Frances, assis­tant features editor at the South Bend Tribune; Mary Roemer, coordinator of psychological services at Omni Center for Women's Health and Medicine; and Ellen Stecker, M.D., a family practitioner. 
"I like the idea of this panel being imbedded in the (Day of Women)." said panel chair­woman Phelps, "I think that it's a celebration of women and I'm glad that it's occurring." 
According to Phelps, the biggest issues confronting working women in the 1990s 

A DAY OF 
WOMEN 
Saturday,Jan. Z6, 1991 
are child care, pregnancy leave and parental leave. 
"I don't see these as women's issues, but family issues that we've been able to ignore as long as the work force has been primarily male, but it's not anymore," said Phelps. 
Stamile agreed that day care would be a major issue, as well as elderly care as the Baby Boomer generation grows older. "I think our generation ... is extremely socially conscious and other-oriented," said Stamile, "I think that there has to be some type of discussion between men and women as we enter into the real world." 
Stamile is the undergraduate 


......~--------------------------------------------~----------------------~------~~-~ 
pa e 13 



events lan show 

as part of Father Austin Collins' yay as France and Yugoslavia. 
of many of the 20th-century 
painters on display aren't trip­
ping off the lips of students, but 
nevertheless, these works 
represent quality." 
In another area of the per­
manent collection, the recent 
purchase of preclassic figurines 
from Mexico and Guatemala 
"gives us about the finest col­
lection of these," said Bradley. 
Needless to say, visiting the 
Snite should be on the agenda 
of every responsible Domer. At 
the very least, drop by the mu­
seum gallery store. You may 
pleasantly surprise your par­
ents or roommate with a cul­
turally stimulating T-shirt or 
poster. 

Ln-es 
~n 

face 

representative of the Faculty­Student Committee on Women at Notre Dame, which deals with women's issues such as sexual harassment, date rape, gender-inclusive language and evaluating the overall climate for female students on the ND 
campus. 
"The panel consists of women in a number of different fields, so basically I'm representing women students at Notre Dame," said Stamile, "The pur­pose of the Day of Women at the Snite is not only to bring together the University commu­nity. but the South Bend com­munity (as well)." 
"I think I'm basically on the 
panel because I'm a member of 
the smaller University commu­
nity." said Stamile, "but I'm 
searching for my contribution 
to the larger community. to 
which all these women have 
made some contribution." 
~KAY 
FAVL 
!>oWN 

Annual faculty art show showcases many talents 

By MELISSA COMER Accent Writer 
N 
ot only are the faculty of art, art history and design at Notre Dame dedicated toward helping produce the b~st and the brightest new artists, but they are talented artists in their own right. And at no time is that point made clearer than when such talents are displayed together in an annual exhibit. 
The Annual Faculty Show opens this Sunday with an ex­hibit of the latest work of the faculty members in the Art Stu­dio and Design fields. A tradi­tion for over 25 years, the show will appear at the Snite Mu­seum of Art. 
Highlighting works from 
various media, the group ex­
hibit includes samples of paint­
ing, drawing, printmaking, 
fiber, sculpture, photography, 
and design. In addition to the 
vast array of media, the faculty 
show includes pieces in a wide 
range of styles that reflect cur­
rent movements from across 
the country. 

With the venue to exhibit their most recent work, each participating faculty member has submitted approximately three to six pieces. 
Included in this year's exhibit are Jean Dibble, assistant pro­fessor; Paul Down, adjunct pro­fessor; Kevin Firme, adjunct assistant professor; Father James Flanigan, associate pro­fessor; Richard Gray, associate professor; Douglas Kinsey, professor; Barbara Peterson, adjunct assistant professor; John F. Sherman, assistant professor; Richard Stevens, as­sociate professor; and Don Vogl. associate professor. 
Also featured in this show are Frederick Beckman, professor emiritus; William Kremer Jr.. associate professor and acting chairmen; David Nelson, techni­cian; and Thomas Molyneaux, visiting associate professor. 
Another faculty member, Fa­ther Austin Collins, will be rep­resented in a one-man show which will run simultaneously with the Annual Faculty Show. 
Most of the faculty participat­ing in the exhibition are cur­
rently involved in teaching the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. By exhibiting their own work, the faculty will provide the students with an opportunity to gain greater in­sight of their professors' teaching styles. The pieces will also afford the students a , chance to view recent work that displays current trends in the 
art world. 
As the faculty prepared to 
have their pieces exhibited, 
Dibble commented, "Everyone 
is really excited about the show. 
It seems that it will be particu­
larly well-presented." 

The exhibit of the creativity of 
the faculty artists offers the 
opportunity to experience the 

range, vitality, and diversity of 
works being produ.ced at the 
University. 
The exhibit will run from 
January 27 until March 17 at 
the Snite Museum of Art. Mu­
seum hours are 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. 
Tuesday through Saturday (with extended hours until 8 

p.m. 
on Thursday) and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday. The museum is closed Monday. Admission is free. 





r 
-TIM 

rLANI~AN 

'Arsenic and Old Lace' offers no screams, but lots of laughs 


By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
N 
o guns. No blood. Not even a scream. 
So, how do you 
tell that "Arsenic and Old Lace" is about murder? 
1\vo lines: "There's a body in that window seat... and "Yes, dear, we know." 
The St. Edward's Hall Players have produced another great comedy. This one, directed by John Cook, tells the tale of the criminally insane Brewster family. Two sisters, Abby and Martha (Colleen Loeffler and Wendy Verkler) have developed what their nephew Mortimer (Paul Noonan) calls "a very bad habit" of killing lonely old men who come to the house. 

When Mortimer finds out about the 12 corpses in the cel­lar, he realizes that he just might have a problem on his hands. 
These problems are com­pounded when his brother Jonathan, a homicidal maniac, decides to move in with them. Mortimer's problems double with the arrival of Jonathan, who once killed a man because, of all things, "he said I look like Michael Newhouse... (Well, what do you know... he IS Michael Newhouse!) 
1\vo sets of killers in the same 
house? The result is obvious: 
comedy. This play is full of 
black comedy. You find yourself 
saying "Oh, God, that is horri­
ble!!" and still laughing out 
loud. 
All of the actors, especially Loeffier, Verlder and Grau, turn in performances to be proud of. However, the star of this show is definitely Mortimer's other brother, Teddy, who is convinced that he is President Theodore Roosevelt. Teddy is played by Chris Murphy, but I thought I was watching John Cleese. 
"Arsenic and Old Lace" plays at Washington Hall today and tomorrow at 8:10 p.m.. with a Sunday matinee at 2:10 p.m. Tickets are $3 and are available at the Lafortune Box Office and at the door. Go see it, but don't expect to hear any screams (except the screams of delight from the audience). 



page 14 The Observer Friday, January 25, 1991 

Yellow ribbons as the opium of t~e people 
While attending a funeral last week in New Jersey, I saw thousands of yellow ribbons tied around trees that were masquerading as oaks. On the way back from the-cemetery where we had just buried the dead, I tried to sort out the anger from the sadness I feel about war; and for two cents, I would have started shouting from the car window, "Yellow ribbons suck!" 
Whenever an American presi­dent leads the nation into war, he should, ipso facto, be put on trial for war crimes as soon as the armistice is signed. If we had such a law, and Mr. Bush were found guilty, we could col­lect the yellow ribbons that ask Bill Bailey, "Won't you please come home?" and braid them into a rope to be used at the condemned man's hanging. 
Presidents should be elected to keep us out of war. Why shouldn't we pass a constitu­tional amendment notifying candidates that if they ever move into the Oval Office, they. will be held accountable for leading us down war's primrose path, and be answerable to the enlisted lads they have led into hell for an allegedly heavenly cause? 
If the president should turn out to be a patriot who more than self his country loves, maybe the blood-stained armies serving as his jury will, in the name of justice, acquit him, after looking over his shoulder, as long as the war lasts, to keep him honest. 
Yellow ribbons may be a sign to the neighbors that we are keeping the home fires burning for G.l. Joe, but are they not 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

us that he is a father figure who has to make hard, tough decisions? Or should we make him earn our trust, and fight to keep it, every doggone day? Yellow ribbons could lead him to believe that we're giving him carte blanche to carry on a war that can make mincemeat out of the army we have trusted him with. 
We should at least serve no­tice that sloganeering. as a form of inspiration, went out with World War I, as Paul Fussell has proven in the books he wrote about the two world wars. The Great War was fought, said Fussell, to save the world for democracy. The doughboys found out that this great promise was made of wind. Every war since then has been fought "to get the job over, and bring the lads home." 
Now Bush has sent the lads to save poor little Kuwait. The war may be neighborly. but it isn't holy, so why does the President ask us to swallow another great lie? 
Mrs. Roosevelt, wife of the American President, used to carry a prayer card during the war against Hitler. "Dear Lord/ Lest I continue/ My complacent way/ Help me/ to remember./ Somewhere out there/ A man died for me today./ --As long as there be war/ I then must/ Ask and answer/ Am I worth dying for?" 
The man "who died for me today" sounds like a lamb of sacrifice, or a secular Christ figure. In World War I, when we still had ideals, the religious imagery was much more ex­plicit. Wilfred Owen sees a re­semblance between his soldiers and Christ approaching His crucifixion. 

"For 14 hours yesterday," he said, "I was at work--teaching Christ to lift his cross by num­
. hers, and how to adjust his crown; and not to imagine his thirst until after the last halt. I attended his Supper to see that there were no complaints; and inspected his feet that they should be worthy of the nails. I see to it that he is dumb. and stands at attention before his accusers. With a piece of silver I buy him every day, and with maps I make him familiar with the topography of Golgotha." 
In his book "Dispatches," Michael Herr writes of being in Vietnam on an air run with a Marine who was reading the Bible. As a courtesy, the Marine shows Herr a passage from the Psalms: "Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, nor for the arrow that flieth by day ... " 
Afterwards, wrote Herr, "I had a nasty impulse to run through Psalms and find a pas­sage I could offer him, the one that talked about those who were defiled by their own works and sent a-whoring with their own inventions." 
Herr writes about a young Marine carried into a hospital with his legs gone. Seeing the Catholic chaplain, he asks, "Father, are my legs okay?" The priest answers, "Sure." 
The next day the boy was ly­ing on his cot when the chap­lain came by. "Father," the Marine said, "I'd like to have that cross." And he pointed to the silver insignia on the priest's lapel. The chaplain removed the cross and handed it to him. The Marine held it tightly in his fist and looked at the chaplain. "You lied to me, Father," he said. "You c---s----­. You lied to me." 
Herr shows no tendency to make his Marines into Christ­figures. It would have been sentimental and banal to do so in that hell hole of a country. 
If we wanted to believe the old Lie, "Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori," we could sew the yellow ribbons into shrouds for burying the dead, as though those shrouds were symboli­cally joyful, like baptismal robes. The truth is that the yellow ribbons have become part of the Lie told to families with children in the service "ardent for some desperate glory." 
So many who have died in wars this century have died be­cause great lies were told them with high zest. Now in the 1990s,. many are starting to believe that God Himself is a lie used in wartime like opium, to anesthetize the masses of men leading lives of quite despera­tion. 
I'm not a cynic. I believe in God and accept the abstrac­tions at face value, even the President. But when I see yellow ribbons, I start wondering who is trying to pull the wool over my eyes. 
also a sign of domestic tran­quillity that assures the Admin­istration that all is well on the home fwnt? Are we doing the fighting lads a favor by mind­lessly accepting Mr. Bush's war as though his rhetoric has tamed us like pussy cats? Damn the man! 
Even if the war against Iraq is a just and honorable war, the President should have his back to the wall every step of the way, defending his reasons for plunging young warriors into obscenities that would give even hell a bad name. 

-The proud parents of G.l. Joe, seen on television, assure the listening world, "We back the President all the way. The yel­low ribbons we've tied to the lawn shrubs should prove our hearts are in the right place." Those parents should read some of the war novels written after Vietnam. They should be sentenced to live for a week among the packs of one-eyed children with limbs missing, driven frantic from starvation in the bombed-out cities. 
"All wars are boyish, and are fought by boys," wrote Melville. Tying yellow ribbons in support of our "boys" seems like a game played to please Scout­master Bush, who is leading "the kids" (as he calls them) on the field trip we will read about in the homesick mail from the desert. 
Should we let him persuade 

Champion International c:orporation-one of Ainerica's leading manufacturers of paper for business cornmunications, cornn1ercial printing, publications, and newspapers-invites Saint Mary's and N.otre l)arl1e seniors to interview for sales representative positions. 
SMC 
Reception 

Stapleton Lounge, Wednesday, January 30, 7-9pm 
Interviews 

Thursday, January 31 
Notre Dame 
Reception 

The Foster Room in LaFortune Center Monday, January 28, 7-9pm 
Interviews 

Wednesday, January 30 

Friday, January 25, 1991 The Observer 

Hoosiers back on track after Big 10 victory over Wolverines 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) ­Indiana got back on track in the Big Ten as Greg Graham scored 19 points to lead the third-ranked Hoosiers to a 70­60 victory over Michigan Thursday night. 
Indiana (17-2, 5-1) needed the win to shake off the effects of a 93-85 loss to No.. 4 Ohio State at home on Monday night. The Wolverines (9-8, 2-5), which had a modest two-game winning streak ended, has lost four of its last five games with the Hoosiers. 
The Hoosiers, who shot 49 percent, are 6-0 on the road, 6­1 on neutral courts. 
Calbert Cheaney scored 17 points for Indiana, 11 in the· second half, and led the Hoosiers with 12 rebounds. 
The Hoosiers played without freshman Damon Bailey who warmed up but remained on the bench with a wrap on his bruised left thigh. 

Demetrius Calip scored 21 points for Michigan, which shot 43 percent and had a 41-31 re­bounding edge. 
Graham scored six of his eight first-half points to help the Hoosiers to a 20-11 lead with 
11:47 left. 
But Tony Tolbert scored five points, including a 3-pointer, and Calip hit two long jumpers to lead a 13-2 Michigan burst. Kirk Taylor's layup gave Michigan a 24-22 lead with 6:41left. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All 
classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all 

Classifieds 
spaces. 

ATIENTION: Excellent income for SPRING BREAK 1991 Several questions to pose to Zahm 2A, home assembly work. 504-646-FARLEYITES: Don't ditch the KRISTIN APPELGET as soon as Top 10 Quotes from the MIAMI 
I NOTICES 
1700 DEPT. P5868. Join thousands of college students Dining Hall tonight, because we're possible: POSSEE: in Daytona Beach or Cancun, having our HALL DINNER at 5:30 *Who's her favorite Nelson? 10. "If you can't make it here, you Mexico. Package starting from in the BLUE ROOM of NDH. But *Is it really true that Gunner lip-. better hang it up." 
USED TEXTBOOKS 
SUMMER JOBS $99.00 U.S. plus tax. Organize a don't wear blue. Wear black and sinked on...? 9. "You can't tailgate here, this is a25% off list price 
COUNSELORS/SUMMER group and travel for free. red, to make yourself stand out as a *If she could do anything, (using prison.·
Pandora's Books 233-2342 CHILDREN'S Call T.J. at S.T.S 1-800 265-1799. Farley girl (as if we don't already!!) jello and peroxide) with "The other 8. "Sure we'll use the MEN'S" corner of ND ave and Howard 
CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP Also, don't forget that decorating for one" (not Gunner) what would it 7. "MMmmm...F_in' A!!!" SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, Wanted: Volunteers to help provide the BIG NIGHT starts immediate! be? 6. "Strokin' ... no Chew, not myTYPING AVAILABLE 
TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST COUNSELINE to the ND-SMC y after the dinner, so get psyched! *Is she really trying to grow her hair nose." 
287-4082 HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE community. Interested? call 239-out like them? 5. "Sorry, but I can't fit 11 people in FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 7337. A good way to provide FARLEYITES: In case yo.u've been *Is "Ozzie and Harriet" her favorite a cab." ' I PORTUGUESLANGUAGE 
ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL, service, have some quiet study living under a rock, here's a show? 4. "I think I'm in Speedoville!" I TUTOR: BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, time, and improve your resume. reminder that SATURDAY is POP *Is this analogy true: Kristin is to 3. "The posseeis in full effect!!" I BRAZILIAN GRAD STUDENT. 
DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS, FARLEY '91. Fire up for A NIGHT Nelson, as Benedictine monks are 2. "SHOTGUN!!" I CALL ROSALI 283-4629 FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, OF CELEBRATIONS, and if you to their religion? 1 . "Everybody dance now!!" GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY, 
don't have a date yet, GET ONE! *Does she see any chance of her 
SQUASH FORRENT 
I

HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, 'Nuff said. meeting, marrying, and having butt­Thanks for a great time at the Interested in playing? Please 
JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, ugly long-haired freaks with them? Orange Bowl!! 
come to court 2 in JAAC Monday 
NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY, FURN~HED60R7BEDROOM "SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, If so, which one? Love, Bitch, Dyke, Naked Jan 28 @7:30 
PIANO, ROCKETRY, HOME NEAR CAMPUS. SUMMER INTERNSHIPS" *What sign is "The other one?" Wonder, and Couch. 
If you have any questions call 
ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL PRESENTATION BY PAUL *For that matter, what is ''the other 2880 
SAILBOARDING, SAILING, OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER i=!EYNOLDS OF CAREER AND one's" name? SCUBA, SOCCER, TRACK, GILLIS. PLACEMENT s·ERVICES ••••••••••••••••••you get the picture. Colleen L.,
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. TONIGHT 6:30p.m. IN RM. 124 Break-a-Leg tonight in "Arsenic and MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. Old Lace!" Sorry about last COUPLE SEEKS DAY CARE IN 
WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, FREEDOM! Rent the best houses, week. I'm sure you'll find a suitable THEIR HOME ONE DAY A WEEK 
MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) prime locations. 233-9947. "SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, GRAD STUDENT TEACHING way to get me back though. Have FOR THEIR TWO CHILDREN. 
381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR SUMMER INTERNSHIPS" fun! Love, 
WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY PRESENTATION BY PAUL "The Role of me VERY ATIRACTIVE 
1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 219-291-7153. REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND Graduate Student Teaching COMPENSATION. 
(617) 934-6536. Marianne,
PLACEMENT SERVICES in Party-time! Furn. 2,4,5 bedrm. TONIGHT 6:30p.m. IN RM. 124 University Education" Quit stressing!!! Kick back and have CALL 234-2180 FOR DETAILS. 
homes. Safe, priv. park, HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. a beer. or two, or twelve!!!! TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER washer/dryer. beach V-ball Dr. Michael Salemi HappyJPW!!! CHILDREN'S CAMPS­court. Bruce 234-3831 or "SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, Love, me
LOST/FOUND I 
NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN 288-5653 SUMMER INTERNSHIPS" Monday, Jan. 28, 7-9 p.m. WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN 
PRESENTATION BY PAUL CCE Auditorium -HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY 
THE NORTHEAST. GOOD Need rooms for Jr. Parent's Week? REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND NIGHT SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, CAll Home B &B. Refreshments Provided 
PLACEMENT SERVICES 

THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM 
TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN 291-0535. TONIGHT 6:30p.m. IN AM. 124 Joe Riley,
#115, P.O. BOX 1214, AND A 
CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, HAYES HEALY. ALL INVITED. Congratulations on your N.H.S. 
BUSINESS KEY-AROUND 
P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY. MA 2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES IRISH MUSIC &DANCE acceptance!!!! Go Ramblers! 
ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA 
02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL CLOSE TO CAMPUS Spring Break '91 FRIDAY, JAN 25 AT CLUB 23 from, Jeanne and Rich FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE 
OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 232-3616 Cancun Style! "The Return of the Cellist" THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE 
GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 7 nights at Beachfront Hotel. with (sounds like Hay Machine) FOUND, CALL 284-4308. THANK 
10543 (914) 381-5983. DOGHAUS returns with a Round trip air from Chicago. SEAMAISfNYOU!! 
barrage of pre-apocalyptic Free cover charges, Great sounds. discounts, Beach activities Seek guitar, bass, keys (vocal 
.L~ 1. ieed

LOST: Men's Pulsar watch, 
SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER and contests. ability?) for classic/alt. band. Paul gold with white face and 
Valentine Delivery &pecial

CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD Prices from $469, for more x3671.
brown leather band. 
NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND info. call Tore at 289-3336 orSentimental value. If found 
Candy/rlower~/&lloons

WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO FORNEXTSCHOOLYEAR 
Reggie at 277-7684.

please call Heidi at #21 08. 
SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL 2773097 WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK '2:7>-3355 POOL AND LAKES IN THE 
SAVE THIS NUMBER '91! cANcuN FRoM $459. R .,, 1 ('35 1i' b 14th ('r)oLost on Fri. 1/18/91 between 
NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY. 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 if you plan on roadtripping to IU, JAMAICA FROM $539.00! DON'T .._...;e..;;.!'~"-~...,.U1;;.;.8:::;;;,r....;'l':.;;.:,_.;;_
1 e.:;.::.:·~.::.:...;W:,:i.J:.:::.....J

Cushing and Alumni: key ring with 
ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232-1776 Ball State or U of Dayton sometime MISS THE FUN AND SUN! CALL 6 keys (3 dorm, 2 car, 1 house). 
EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE: 
this semester and need a rider to 1-800-427-7 Reward. Call x1209. 
CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, 
Jeff Barsfechtel's
Furnished Bedrooms and Shared help with gas$$$: X1177 and ask 

MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) Living Areas. Avail. for 91-92 Yr. for John. ADOPTION: Christian couple 
3nl Annu~l

FOUND: Cross Pen by Arch Build. 
381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR Washer and Dryer. $200 per month seeks to adopt white infant. 
lnit. "R?N" If yours call x3470 & ID 
WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776. BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 2 YR. Financially secure home in 
Spring Bre~k P~rty

color and MI. 
1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332 
OLD-Mornings 8-12 or 1 pm, T-Th. suburban area. Expenses paid. 
Daytona Beach or 

(617) 934-6536. Quaint apts. near N.D. or M-W-F. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Legal/confidential. Answer our ad 

South Padre Island

LOST: GOLD RIM FRAMED 
-upstairs 1 bedroom $255 Call 234-8743. and answer our prayers. Please call 
GLASSES. POSSIBLY LOST 
For INFO and 

GROUP HOMES -downstairs 1 bedroom $265 Harry and Melody collect at (219)BETWEEN BP AND D2. IF 
Several live-in or shift positions deposit, reference 616-483-9572. Hey everyone! Here's your 259-0585 any time. FOUND PLEASE CALL X1279. 
available working in group homes big chance! TODAY is NEEDED IMMEDIATELY-AM 
for children or adults with mental 
Jennifer Snodgrass' 19th Rule number 1: JESTER· BLIND W/0 THEM. THANKS. 
retardation. Moderate pay; FOR SALE Rule number 2: Saturday at
birthday! Call X2695 and wish challenging work. Spring interviews 
her a happy one! Club 23 LOST: Clear plastic dress bag 
available. If you have training or For Sale: NINTENDO SYSTEM and Rule number 3: Be there. filled with dresses, skirts and shirts. 8 p.m. S. Padre
volunteer experience working with GAMES. Best offer. Call 277-4677. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, JENN! Rule number 4: There is no rule Was left hung over 
individuals having developmental number four. wire fence behind Breen-Philips on 
disabilities, send your resume to: CHEAP AIRLINE TICKETS from Love,Dec. 21. Sweater of 
Griff Hogan 71 South Bend to Dallas Feb 7-1 0. Your roomies And no Poofters! 
great sentimental value inside. If RHMR Call 259-6748. Best Offer. 
NEED EXTRA INCOME FOR 199J?

found, please call Erin at x1458. 
3030 West Fork Road DO YOU ENJOY WORKING WITH "Prayers for Peace" daily at the Cincinnati, Ohio 45211 
-Earn $500-1000 weekly

PEOPLE? Grotto, 5:00-5:15p.m.
LOST: Blue Swatch between Dillon ALL-BRICK TRADITIONAL CLOSE If you are searching for an 
stuffing envelopes 

and Hurley, Tues., 1/22. 
TO CAMPUS, 3 BR, 2200 sq. ft., opportunity that will allow you to Dear Arthur Kent: We want to see 
For details-Rush $1.00

Sentimental Value. Please call 
ATIENTION new heating & cooling, formal DR earn an exceptionally large income you with your leather jacket off. 
with SASE to:

Chris x1851 
CAMPUS BANDS: and LR with fireplace. Clutter takes while helping people, call 291-2964 Take it off, take it all off!-Love, 
OIH Group, 7121 Laura]

a powder in large closets. Study for an appointment. Section 2B 
LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort of 
Local restaurant/lounge is looking adjoins MBA. Spaciousness for 
Hill Orlando FL32818 

a link design. Great sentimental for college bands to perform. For 
$84, 900. OPEN HOUSE Sunday, KEENAN REVUE TICKETS will be s c
value. Reward. Phone 2156 
further information call 272-8954. Jan. 27, 1-3pm. Call Mary Jo distributed Friday to Notre Dame E 0 B(Maria). 
Ask for Amy Razz 

Shively and Saint Mary's students. A N R F S B (Res.) 277-2279 RE/MAX 100 Distribution at Notre Dame will be S I R A EWANTED Realty 255-5858 at 3 p.m. at the JACC, while M P D I A T Juggler's Needed for Mardi Gras N U T
'0 distribution at Saint Mary's will be at 0 I G D Party on Feb. 7 5p.m. N R E A D R H SUMMER JOBS 
Please call Ellen 284-4378 or 
K A T Y D E 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Patsy 284-4420 
TICKETS DEAR JEN: E C S A R
I

PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
y y y E
AGENT COOPER SEZ-HAVE A 

ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
DAMN FINE BIRTHDAY! 
DAYTONA BEACH ..'!,,SffJ*

NEAR LAKE PLACID 
7 NIGHTS

Intelligent hardworking indi­2 OR 4 VIRGINIA TIXS.272-6306 (AND BEWARE OF TALL MEN) **HAPPY BIRTHDAY** CALL 1-800-343-8373. 
viduals sought for book trade. KATIE "BEAR' BAMBRICK! 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND .Sf29* 
5 I'NO 7 NIGHTS

15+ hours/wk, $5/hr. Call 288-1 002 I Need one Duke ticket U THE BEST! Roomies
LOVE, 
STEAMBOAT ss6·

ACCENT ON FUN! Coed. 
after 5 pm. Se11d resume to PO Box Dan x2042 
J 5 A/liD 7 NIGHTS

THE LOG LADY & THE for four, you&me! 
sleepaway camp in Massachusetts 4621, S. Bend, IN 46634 
"WHOLE TOWN" LOVE. Annie Bananie 
FORT LAUDERDALE Sf~7· 
7 NIGHTS

seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI. 
PANAMA CITY BEACH .Sf24*

lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all 
CHRIS, 
7 NIGHTS

land & water sports. fitness, PERSONALS
SPRING BREAK 1991 BREAK A LEG TONIGHT IN SEA MONKEY CONSPIRACY ICORPUS CHRISTl I
I I

gymnastics, piano/play for shows, ENTHUSIASTIC INDIVIDUAL or 
MUSTANG ISLAND
ARSENIC AND OLD LACE' 
5 4NO liVIGHTS

drama, judo, dance. archery, 
STUDENT ORGANIZATION to LOVE, TREE Tonight and Tomorrow photography, computers, model 
HILTON HEJID ISLAND

promote the two most popular A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 night 

S A 'VD 71\IICH TS 

rocketry, guitar. radio. video, 
Spring Break destinations. DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & at 
CALL TOLL F11Ef TODAY 

yearbook, newspaper. wilderness, 
Daytona Beach and Cancun FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA 
1·800·321·59t1

woodwork. AN. 
Mexico. Earn free trips and cash Bridget's
$159! PANAMA CITY $99! SPRING Kristin Appelget does Nelson. Jen 6/23-8/26. CAMP EMERSON. 5 $$$!!! Call now. 1-800-256 1799. 

BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786. "Nif Nif" Swize gives funky love. 

Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY Student Travel Services. Ask for 
What is the world com1ng to?

10707. 800-955-CAMP. 
T.J. 






I 
I 
I Scoreboard 
Friday, January 25, 1991
I a e 16 
t NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS NBA STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvialon 
w L T NY Rangers 26 17 8 Philadelphia 26 21 6 

' I 
Pittsburgh 26 21 3 New Jersey 20 20 10 Washington 22 26 2 NY Islanders 17 25 6 
Adame Dlvlalon

\ 
Boston 27 16 8 

) Montreal 27 18 5 Buffalo 21 17 10 Hartford 21 23 5
~ 
Quebec 10 31 9 \ 
~ 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division 
w L T Chicago 32 15 4 
St. Louis 26 15 7 Detroi1 22 22 5 Minnesota 14 29 8 Toronto 12 32 5 

~ 
Smythe Dlvlaion 
Los Angeles 26 17 5 
Calgary 25 19 5 
Edmonton 23 21 3 
Vancouver 19 26 4 
Winnipeg 16 27 8 

...... 
Thuradly's Games Boston 3, Hartford 0 Philadelphia 6, Washington 1 New Jersey 6, Quebec 1 Buffalo 5, Chicago 4 
Frld1y'a Gamea St Louis at Detroit, 7:35p.m. 
Vancouver at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Minnesota at Washington, 8:05 p.m. 
N.Y. 
Islanders at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m. 



Sund1y'1 Game•
N.Y. 
Rangers at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. 

N.Y. Islanders at Washington, 12:05 p.rn

Los Angeles at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Boston at Montreal, 1:05 p.m. Calgary at Buffalo, 2:05p.m. Edmonton at Winnipeg, 3:35 p.m. 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS 

How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared Thursday: 
1. 
UNLV (14-0)'did not play. Next: at louisville, Saturday. 

2. 
Arkansas (18-1) did not play. Next: at Baylor, Saturday. 

3. 
Indiana (16-2) beat Michigan 70-60. Next: vs. No. 22 Michigan State, Saturday. 

4. 
Ohio State (17-0) beat Minnesota 80-70. Next: at No. 22 Michigan State, Thursday, Jan. 31. 

5. 
Anzona (15·2) at Stanford. Next: at California, Saturday. 

6. 
Syracuse (17-2) did not play. Next: at Providence, Saturday. 

7. 
North Carolina (14-2) did not play. Next: vs. Georgia Tech, Sunday. 

8. 
Kentucky (15-2) did not play. Next: at Alabama, Saturday. 

9. 
Duke (15-4) did not play. Next: at Clemson, Saturday. 

10. 
St. John's (14-2) did not play. Next: vs. Villanova at the Spectrum, Saturday. 

11. 
UCLA (14-3) at Oregon State. Next: at Oregon, Saturday. 


> 
12. 
East Tennessee State (14-2) did not play. Next: at VMI, Saturday. 

13. 
Oklahoma (14-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 14 Nebraska, Saturday. 

14. 
Nebraska (16-2) did not play. Next: at No. 13 Oklahoma, Saturday. 

15. 
Southern Mississippi (12·1) beat Louisville 84-81. Next: vs. Cincinnati, Saturday. 

16. 
LSU (12-4) did not play. Next: vs. Florida, Saturday. 

17. 
Pittsburgh (15-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 21 Georgetown, Sunday. 

18. 
Virginia (13·4) did not play. Next: at Notre Dame, Saturday. 

19. 
Connecticut (12·5) did not play. Next: vs. Seton Hall at the Meadowlands, Saturday. 

20. 
Utah (17-1) vs. Colorado State. Next: vs. Air Force. Saturday. 

21. 
Georgetown (11·5) did not play. Next: at No. 17 Pittsburgh, Sunday. 

22. 
Michigan State (12-5) did not play. Next: at No. 31ndiana, Saturday. 

23. 
New Mexico State (13·2) vs. San Jose State. Next: vs. Utah State, Saturday. 

24. 
New Orleans (16-2) did not play. Next: vs. Alabama-Birmingham, Friday. 

25. 
South Carolina (14·4) did not play. Next: at Memphis State, Saturday. 


NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL SCORES 
EAST SOUTH 

Allentown 81, Wesley n 
Assumption 101, St. Rose 95 
Bard 96, St. Joseph's, Ll. 80 
Brandeis 8-4, Worcester Tech 66 
Cent. Connecticut St. 76, Rider 69 
Clark U. 67, Wesleyan 66 
Connecticut Coli. 8-4, Roger Williams 64 
Curry 64, Salve Regina 53 
Fairleigh Dickinson 99, Long Island U. 70 
Franklin & Marshall 83, Johns Hopkins 79, OT 
Geneva 85, Wheeling Jesuit 75 
Hofstra 67, Wagner 60 
La Salle 89, Canisius 74 

( 
Maine-Augusta 87, Lyndon St. S4 
N.Y. Maritime n. N.Y. Poly 71 

I 
I Nazareth, N.Y. 91, Kings Point 65 New England Coli. 89, Wentworth Tech 77 Plymouth St. 94, Framingham St. 90 Rhode Island 81, Duquesne 75 Robert Morris 99, Mount St. Mary's, Md. 71 SE Massachusetts 75, E. Connecticut 64 
Siena 90, Manhattan 55 
St Francis, NY 80, Marist 63 
St. Joseph's, Maine 114, New England 53 

l ~ 
St. Joseph's, N.Y. 90, Pratt 75 
Tel'lllle 55, Massachusetts 53 
West Virginia 84, George Washington 80 Pte GF GA Home Away DIY 60 186 156 14-7-5 12-10-3 9-7-3 58 179 t65 14·9-4 12·12·2 8-10-5 55 215 184 16-11-1 10-10-2 13-9-0 50 183 171 14-6-6 6-14-4 8-11-5 46 158 169 11-10-1 11-16-1 11-10-1 40 135 168 10-14-3 7-11-3 7-9-4 

62 183 164 16-6-3 11-10-5 11-7-3 59 168 149 15-7-2 12-11-3 10-5-3 52 174 157 11-6-6 10-11-4 6-8-4 47 142 164 11-10-3 10-13-2 7-10-3 29 140 222 5-13-6 5-18-3 5-9-5 
Pta GF GA Home Away DIY 68 171 133 17-7-2 15-8-2 13-6-1 59 175 146 12-6-5 14-9-2 11-6-2 49 164 172 18-7-0 4-15-5 9-7-2 36 153 179 9-14·4 5-15-4 3-12-3 29 142 207 7-18·2 5-14-3 5-10-2 
57 194 156 15-6-3 11-11-2 7-7-3 55 201 160 13-7-1 12·12·4 11-6-2 49 159 151 14-8-1 9-13-2 8-10-2 42 156 18-4 11-11-2 8-15-2 7-13-0 40 160 181 11-11-3 5-16-5 8-5-5 
Saturday'• Game• 
Buffalo at Montreal, 1:05 p.m. 
Calgary at Boston, 1:35 p.m. 
Philadelphia at Hartford, 7:35 p.rn 
Pittsburgh at Quebec, 7:35p.m. 
Minnesota at New Jersey, 7;45 p.m. 
Toronto at Chicago, 8:35 p.rn 
Detron at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
BASEBALL 
American League 
BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Named Roy Krasik 
director of minor league administration. 
CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Agreed to terms with 
Gary Gaetti. third baseman. on a four-year contract 
and Max Venable, outfielder, on a one-year 
contract. 
MINNESOTA TWINS-Agreed to terms with 
Nelson Liriano, second baseman. on a one-year 
contract. 
NEW YORK YANKEE8-Agreed to terms with 
Pat Sher.idan, outfielder. on a minor league 
contract and invited him to spring training. Invited 
Dion James, outfielder. to spring training. 
TEXAS RANGER8-Agreed to terms with Bobby 
Witt, pitcher, on a three-year contract. Agreed to 
terms with Rich Gossage, pitcher, on a minor 
league contract and invited him to spring training. 
National league 
ATLANTA BRAVE8-Agreed to terms with Mark 
Grant, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
HOUSTON ASTR08-Agreed to terms with Jim 
Deshaies, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
ST. LOUIS CARDINAL8-Agreed to terms with 
Joe Magrane, pitcher. on a one-year contract. 
BASKETBALL 
Continental Basketball Association 
CBA-Announced that Pat Durham, Cedar Rapids forward, has been fined an suspended for one game for fighting in a game against Quad City on Monday. Announced that George Karl, Albany coach, has been fined for kicking a ball into the stands in a game against Oklahoma City on Jan. 2. 
Amateur 
USA BASKETBALL-Named Atlanta; Lincoln, Neb.; Long Beach, Calif., and Pittsburgh as sites for the U.S. Olympic Festival women's teams trials. 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 
MIAMI DOLPHINs-Announced the resignation of Monte Clark, director of pro personnel. World League of American Football 
SACRAMENTO SURGE-Named Cliff Dochterman administrative aide to the general manager and Stuart Zeman team physician. 
HOCKEY National Hockey league NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Recalled Neil Brady, center, from Utica of the American Hockey League. 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Assigned Hubie McDonough, center; Brad Dalgarno. right wing; and Jari Gronstrand, defenseman, to Capital District of the American Hockey League. Recalled Rich Kromm, left wing, and Jeff Finley, defenseman. from Capital District. 
WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Obtained Paul Fenton, left wing. and John Kordic, right wing, from the Toronto Maple Leafs for future considerations. Traded Fenton to the Calgary Flames for Ken Sabourin, defenseman. 
SOCCER Major Soccer League 
MSL-Named David Clements assistant coach for the Eastern Division team and Keith Weller assistant coach for the Western Division team for the MSL All-Star Game. National Professional Soccer League 
MILWAUKEE WAVE-Named Jim Harwood director of public relations. 
COLLEGE ARKANSA8-Named Joe Pate assistant head football coach. NORTHEASTERN-Named Bob Shoop assistant football coach. 
MIDWEST Butler 100, Dayton 95 Carf1lbellsville 140, Thomas More 123 Findlay 82, Ohio Dominican 75 Grand Rapids Baptist 92, Siena Heights 70 Grand Valley St. 70, Saginaw Val. St. 60 111.-Chicago 61, N. Iowa 59, OT lnd.-Pur.-Ft. Wayne 103, Quincy 75 Indiana 70, Michigan 60 Indiana Tech 112, Huntington 81 Indianapolis 91, Kentucky St. 79 Loyola, Ill. 102, St. Louis 71 Malone 115, Lake Erie 61 Marycrest 85, Knox 76 Mount Marty 90, Teikyo Westmar 86 Ohio St. 80, Minnesota 70 St. Francis, Ind. 81, Bethel, Ind. 80 Wayne, Mich. 85, Michigan Tech 73 Xavier, Ohio 69, Detroit 67 
SOUTHWEST 
Ark.-Monticello 80, Arkansas Coli. 76 
Arkansas Tech 75, Harding 66 
Hendrix 80, Henderson St. 78 
Lamar 88, Louisiana Tech n 
S. Arkansas 73, U. of the Ozarks 70 Tulsa 70, Indiana St. 68 

Sc.hwarzenegger Kind9rgaf(en 

COP~ 
4:45-7:30-9:45 
$3.00 
.AJI srows 
Before 6 

EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Dlvlalon w L Pet GB L10 Str..k Home Away Conf Boston 30 9 .769 
6-4 Won 1 20-3 10-6 20-7 

Philadelphia 22 18  .550  8112  
New York 18 21  .462  12  
Washington 18 21  .462  12  
New Jersey 13 26  .333  17  
Miami 11 29  .275  19 112  
Central Dlvlalon  
Chicago 28 12  .700  
Detroit 28 13  .683  112  
Milwaukee 27 15  .643  2  
Atlanta 24 16  .600  4  
Indiana 16 24  .400  12  
Cleveland 13 27  .325  15  
Charlotte 12 27  .308  15 112  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Mid-at Dlvlalon  
w L  Pet  GB  
San Antonio 28 10  .737  
Utah 26 14  .650  3  
Houston 21 20  .512  8112  
Danas 13 25  .342  15  
Minnesota 13 25  .342  15  
Orlando 10 31  .244  19 112  
Denver 9 30  .231  19 112  
Pacific Dlvlalon  
Portland 35 7  .833  
LA Lakers 28 1 t  .718  5112  
Phoenix 25 13  .658  8  
Golden State 22 17  .564  11 112  
Seattle 18 19  .486  14 112  
LA Clippers 14 27  .341  20112  
Sacramento 11 26  .297  21 112  
Thuraday'a Games  
late Game Not Included  
LA Lakers 113, Charlotte 93  
Houston 118, Minnesota 94  
San Antonio 111, Cleveland 103  
New York at Denver, (n)  
Friday's Game•  
LA Lakers a1 New Jersey, 7:30p.m.  
Boston at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m.  
Dallas at Detroit, 8 p.m.  

Indiana vs. Washington at Baltimore, Sp.m. 
Miami at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
Sacramento at Utah, 9:30p.m. 
Sealtle at Phoenix, 10 p.m. 
Milwaukee at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
PRO BOWL ROSTERS 
AFC 
Offense 
Quarterbacks-x-Warren Moon, Houston; Jim Kelly, Buffalo. 
Running backs-x-Thurman Thomas, Buffalo; x· Marion Butts, San Diego; Bobby Humphrey, Denver; Bo Jackson, LA Raiders. 
Wide recelvers-x-Andre Reed, Buffalo; x­Anthony Miller, San Diego; Drew Hill, Houston; Ernest Givins, Houston. 
Tight ends-x-Rodney Holman, Cincinnati; Ferrell Edmunds, Miami. Guards-x-Bruce Matthews, Houston; x-Mike Munchak, Houston; Steve Wisniewski, LA Raiders. 
Tackies-x-Bnuce Armstrong, New England; x,r­Richmond Webb, Miami; Will Wolford, Buffalo; Y· Anthony Munoz, Cincinnati; z-Will Wolford, Buffalo. 
Centers-x-Kent Hull, Buffalo; Don Mosebar, LA Raiders. 
Defense End s-x-Bruce Smith, Buffalo; x-Greg Townsend. LA Raiders; Jetf Cross, Miami. Interior llne-x-Michael Dean Perry, Cleveland; Ray Childress, Houston. 
Outside linebackers-x-Derrick Thomas, Kansas City; x-leslie O'Neal, San Diego; Cornelius Bennett, Buffalo; n-Darryl Talley, Buffalo. 
Interior llnebackers-x-Shane Conlan, Buffalo; x-David Little, Pittsburgh; Mike Johnson, Cleveland; y-John Offerdahl, Miami; z-Mike Johnson. Cleveland. 
Cornerbacks-x·Rod Woodson, Pittsburgh; x­Aibert Lewis, Kansas City; Kevin Ross. Kansas City. 
Safetles-x-Steve Atwater, Denver; x-David Fulcher, Cincinnati; Dennis Smith. Denver. 
Specialists Punter-Rohn Stark. Indianapolis. Placekicker-Nick Lowery. Kansas City. Kick returner-Clarence Verdin, Indianapolis. Special team-Steve Tasker, Buffalo. Need player-To be named later by head coach. 

A Leade: _in desigfl: and s~rvice of building control systems has posltlons avazlable m technical sales and will be on campus the following dates: 
CWednesda~. Januall~ go 7 to 9 p.m. 
<Reception at t~e  Centell ~Oil  Continuir'9 8ducaflon  
CU.pstai11s Con~ellence CRoom  
ffiullsda~. Januatt~  91  ~~~  COa~  

J)ntellviews at t~e Calleett ar1d q>Qacement Cenlell 
Interview schedules and more information are available at the Career and Placement center. 
3-7 5-5 6-4 2-8 3-7 
8-2 8-2 3-7 7-3 4-6 2·8 3-7 
L10 7-3 6-4 3-7 3-7 4-6 2-8 3-7 
7-3 9-1 6-4 7-3 6-4 3-7 5-5 
S1turday'a G1mea 
Lost4 Won 3 Won 2 Won 2 Lost 2 
Lost 1 Lost 1 Lost 3 Lost 1 Won 1 Lost 1 Lost 3 
Streak Won 3 Lost 2 Won 1 Lost 1 Lost 2 Lost 5 Won 1 
Won 5 Won 9 Lost 2 Won 1 Won 2 Lost 2 Won 3 14-7 9-12 12-5 9-12 8-12 
17-3 17-1 20-1 
16~ 
13-7 8-12 8-13 
Home 15-3 16-4 14-6 B-11 8-10 8-11 7-12 
20-2 16-4 15-4 13-4 13-6 10-8 10-10 8-11 17-10 9-9 11-14 6-16 10-12 4-14 8-17 3-17 5-19 
11-9 17-7 11-12 19-6 7-14 17-11 8-10 14-15 3-17 10-15 5-15 9-15 4-14 7-16 
Aw1y Conf 13-7 20-5 10-tO 18~ 7-14 13-13 5-14 8-19 5-15 9-18 2·20 8-21 2-18 5-21 
15-5 21-5 12-7 19-8 10-9 17-8 9-13 14-11 5-13 8-13 4-19 11-13 1-16 8-18 
Philadelphia at Charlotte, 7:30p.m. New Jersey al Miani, 7:30p.m. Detroit at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. Dallas at Washington, 7:30 p.rn Cleveland at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Minnesota at San Antonio, 8:30 p.rn Utah at Denver, 9:30p.m. New York at Phoenix, 9:30p.m. A~nta at Seattle, 1 0 p.m. Milwaukee at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. Sacramento at Portland, 10:30 p.m. 
NFC 
Offense 

Quarterbacks-x-Joe Montana, San Francisco; Randall Cunningham. Philadelphia. 
Running backs-x-Barry Sanders, Detroit; y­Neal Anderson, Chicago: z-Emmitt Smith. Dallas; Earnest Byner. Washington; r-Johnny Johnson. Phoenix. 
Wide receivers-x-Jerry Rice, San Francisco; x­Andre Rison. Atlanta: Sterling Sharpe, Green Bay; Gary Clark, Washington. 
Tight ends-x-Keith Jackson, Philadelphia; Steve Jordan, Minnesota. Guards-x-Randall McDaniel, Minnesota; x-Mark Bortz. Chicago; Guy Mcintyre, San Francisco. Tackles-x-Jim lachey, Washington; x-Jackie Slater, LA Rams; Lomas Brown, Detroit. Centers-x-Jay Hilgenberg, Chicago; Bart Oates, N.Y. Giants 
Defense-­Ends-x-Reggie White, Philadelphia; x-Chris Doleman, Minnesota; Richard Dent. Chicago. Interior line-x-Jerome Brown. Philadelphia; Jerry Ball. Detroit. 
Outside linebackers-x-Charles Haley, San Francisco; x-Lawrence Taylor, N.Y. Giants; Pat Swilling, New Orleans. 
Inside linebackers-x-Pepper Johnson, N.Y. Giants; x-Mike Singletary, Chicago; Vaughan Johnson, New Orleans. 
Cornerbacks-x-Darrell Green, Washington; x­Carl Lee. Minnesota; Wayne Haddix, Tampa Bay. Safeties-x-Joey Browner, Minnesota; x-Ronnie lett, San Francisco; r-Mark Carrier, Chicago. 
Specialists Punter-Sean Landeta, N.Y. Giants. Placekicker-Marten Andersen, New Orleans. Kick returner-Mel Gray, Detroit. Special teams-Reyna Thompson, N.Y. Giants. Need player-To be named later by head coach. 
x-starters; r-rookie; y-injured will not play; z-injury replacement; n-need player 
l ,\ ) 
J 
i, 
-. 



FREE !ANNING I 
~ I
~ojJ­

, 
I.Buy4-sess1on~t the regula7lI price and get 4 FREE • Buy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA? ,
;__ _________ _J 
f'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-~I;J·--·L--.. __ _ 
c(1tle~~ •_!air~~'!_f! ~~4~­
1 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTlJA!: GRAPE RD .. MISHAWAKA 277-794{5 Daily9-8 · Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11-5 


•i;: _·;-:.~...-.":,t,•,i:l:•fJ 
,,:,_,li,... ,,,,¥-~;}f. i(I':!f:
.. ''"~

\ . ; '?~it ll'~­
..:t,.:·::~~!fj 
_J, 
.. }~/ 

·.J~ Super ~ Sunday is ·, almost here ··; and when two 1 of Pro Football's best teams battle it out, be sure to have lots of piping hot, delicious Domino's Pizza® delivered right to your door before halftime! As soon as you call, your pizza will be delivered in 30 minutes or less. Guaranteed. So remember, nothing tops off a Super Sunday Party like a hot, fresh Domino's Pizza, with savings just for you. 
I Get one Large Chee.&. $ 
Get two Large

CheeseGetpizzasfourforLugejust $1795 I Pizza for just $4.<JJ. Good $10 95
one-topping pizzas
$17.95. Additional toppings I Monday and Tuesday only 
for $10.95.

available at additional charge. I Additional topping; available I at additional charge. 
I . II. ! II. I Ill. 
I 

Val~ at partiapabng s1o1es only. Hoe vat~ With any olhel oftels. CuSiomer pays sates tax . I Valid at par11C1Pa~ s1oles.only. No! valid "'th any other oftels Customer p;~ys sates tax I Valid at p;ulicl)abng s10m only Nol valid ...tn. 1!tf other otters Customer p;~ys sales tax I
I where applicable. Oet.-;ery areas limi1e<l to ensure sate driving. Ourdfflers carry~ than $20.00 where aj)phcable. Dei1Y8riareas hmiled to ensure sate dnvma. 0., dffl8rs carry tess than $2000. where applicable DeltVeriareas 'nltled to enso<e sate drMna Our drivers carry tess than $20 00. 
Our drivers are not penalized tor tale oe!Neries. 01/r drivers are not penaized lof late delwenes. 01/r drivers are not penalozed tor late dei-
L ____________ ...!!,~~2~--j_ ____________ _J;~h!!!}'!,!!?!._ _ _l _____________~~l_!!!l'!.!.,_ _ _j 
Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 289-0033 816 Portage Ave.
tsJsSouth&ndAve. 
C>1990 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 



i 1 page 18
I \ 
I i 
I \ I \ 
I . Memory 
\ I continued from page 24 
II\ ' . \ his junior season. He returned \ \ five kickoffs and one punt for \ \ touchdowns in his career. 
I ! 
I But the irony of the Ismail story is that he will be remem­bered for a punt return that will never be found in any me­dia guide or record book. 
'~ 
They sometimes say you're ~ \\ {' \ only as good as your last per­\ ·\ formance. If that's true, the 
\ I memory of Rocket will be a 
I 
lasting one.

\ 


\ 

I ~ Rocket 
i 
continued from page 24

\ 
I 
something I want to do," Ismail

\ 
said, "so I better get used to it.

\ 
I was looking forward to this\ day and the days after it be­

\ \ 
cause leading up to it hasn't

\ 
been fun. I'm glad (the deci­

I 
I sion) is off my shoulders now." 
) 
Experts project Ismail as a 

\ possible No. 1 pick in April's NFL draft. The New England Patriots, who finished last sea­son with a 1-15 mark, currently hold the top pick, but the Detroit Lions are reportedly in­terested in dealing several top players for the right to select Ismail. 
In either case, Ismail figures to command a top-drawer salary. He interviewed several agencies immediately following the Orange Bowl game and re­cently narrowed his choices to two San Francisco firms who will handle his contract negoti­ations. 
Besides his talent and mar­ketability, Ismail offers a rare set of intangibles valuable to any team that chooses him. 
"I'd be bringing more to any 

Lunches starting at--,-­
anquet n~om o· . 
vailable for u .nners starttng at----$5.45 
Bar & Restaurant open 1 days
to 200 

.._~~-.....11 Mel!.-n...... 11:30 a.m. 1o 10 p.m. Fri.· Std. 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. 272-7371 s-I .....,. 11 :30 a.m. 10 10 P.m. 
130 Dixie w.., a., Iouth lend (next to Randal's Inn) 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
..BIG, RICH, POWERFlJLAND EXPtOSIVK 

One of St:orsesd. lx·st filnts evt·t·! '(J,nodtdbs' 
is gn-al 
~ntcrtainmc:nl." 
I~ I \ I; I I I' 
~stunning, ha illi.uu. 
h't·c.auc:ntly hil.u iou~ The: pc.-rt'oruu·p, .an faultlt-~:o.. ·c.,•••Udl.a-. 
tldiua~" 
··nac: h,. .,, uaoh ..,..,it' c.·vc.·r. :\mt·a·i..a\ t'in•·"l filnunal.t·r .n tht· tup 
ul hi., tunn.··
. 
h· ..... &1 .. !1 •llh ,,,,,~_,' li\11 

R( )BERT DENIIU) RAY 1.1( lTl/\ .It >1·. PLS( 'I 



t;oodFt•llcL~ 
AMAHIIN StURSfSl PIUURI 
WAHNI HBHOS 
IRWIN WINKllR MARliN SlUH:il$( . GOOOHllAS HU~IHI Ul Nlllll ·HAY IIIII lA-Jlll PI SCI lORRAINI ~HAtCO •. PAUl SUHVINU :;: BARBAHA UliiNA ·, Nlt:HIII AS Pll!l;t;l """:NICHOlAS ~IIGGI ~MARliN SWHSISI · . IHWIN WINK! Ill
Ri,.~;.~:~:;!bg;~j. .M~~~.~~C.~SJ~I ·· ... •:tl 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:00,9:45 
organization I play for other than just my football talents," Ismail said. "I'd be able to bring a fresh face maybe and whatever wholesomeness I can bring to the program." 
During the past three years, Ismail brought untold excite­ment to the Notre Dame foot­ball program. The university, though, left some lasting im­pressions of its own on the young superstar. 
Ismail says he will miss tak­ing the field with the seniors in next season's final home game, leading Irish fans in the tradi­tional postgame fight song and, of course, the feeling he had after the '88 win over Miami. 
"I remember freshman year after we won the Miami game and all the people came out of the stands," he recalled. "It was like an army of ants running to food and it was just really crazy. The freshmen were walking around saying, 'We beat Miami, man! Hey, we beat Miami!' We were just in awe." 
Ismail believes Notre Dame's opponents will feel the same way about the '91 Irish once they take the field next fall. 
"I feel sorry for people who feel sorry for Notre Dame next 
ChlrwM-Amertc:an R...aurant& Cocktail Lounge Aurh8ntlc Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
. 
The Observer 

Friday January 25, 1991 
Kelly's dreams fulfilled 
year because you're in for a rude awakening," he predicts. "There's gonna be some people out there that are gonna open your eyes." 

TAMPA, Fla. (AP)-Jim Kelly walked to the podium after the Buffalo Bills trounced the Los Angeles Raiders 51-3 for the AFC championship, pumped his fist and yelled, "Yeah, baby!" 
"I know you're supposed to be quiet in the media room, but I had to do that," Kelly ex­plained. "I'm psyched." 
That figures. Some boys dream of being firemen. Some dream of being priests. Kelly dreamed of being a star foot­ball player. And from his earli­est days as a kid from western Pennsylvania, he dreamed of playing in the pinnacle game of the sport, the Super Bowl. 
"This has been our dream," he said. "And mine, when I was in college and even 15 years ago growing up watching the Steelers and Bradshaw. I'm glad to be a part of it." 
Terry Bradshaw and the Steelers were a big part of Kelly's life growing up in East Brady, Pa. He was in his for­mative years when the Steelers enjoyed their Super Bowl suc­cess during the 1970s. Bradshaw was his idol and Kelly naturally gravitated to the quarterback position. 
His fae1er, Joe, noticed his son had a strong arm and en­couraged him to build his accu­racy. Kelly would come home for lunch from school and his father wouldn't let him eat until he had practiced by throwing balls through a tire. 
Check it out! IU AlUMNI m;,~~«<~i~llff!CIIIIII"IIIIi#,t 









i!:Ci.uB
FRIDAY 
Lunch 
11-2 

Grad Nite 5-9 

Write your first DRAFT with us! 
plus both nights Harvey and the Blues News 




The Observer page 19
Friday, January 25, 1991 

Saint Mary's freshmen Gustafson, Hurley will lead team in weekend meet at DePauw 
By EMILY WILLETT Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team looks to a solid group of freshmen to provide strength and depth to the team. Freshmen Jennifer Gustafson and Megan Hurley realize this role and have risen to the chal­lenge. 
"We have a strong group of freshmen on the team. They have good attitudes and pro­vide enthusiasm in the meets," said Gustafson. 
"The freshman talent is spread over all of the strokes and distances giving the team a good balance," added Hurley. 
Both swimmers have dealt with the adjustments that ac­company the transition from high school to collegiate com­petition. Gustafson has found it to be a difficult change, frus­trating at times, but overall a positive challenge. 

..Adjusting to a college lifestyle has affected my swimming. My times are slower than I was used to, but as I get used to the new routine, I feel myself improving," Gustafson explained. 
Hurley finds collegiate swimming stricter but more unified than what she was ac­customed to. 
"Saint Mary's team is stricter than the team I was on in high school. But at Saint Mary's ev­eryone also benefits from more personal attention. The daily practices, personal attention, and small team help you to re­ally feel a part of the team," Hurley said. 
Both Gustafson and Hurley have adjusted to competition on the college level. Gustafson swims backstroke for the team as well as individual medley, freestyle, and free relay events. Hurley swims freestyle sprints and butterfly. 
"Competitively, the highlight of my season so far has proba­bly been the National Catholic Invitational. The size of the meet and the competition scared me, but I was really happy with my performance," Gustafson said. 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team will face DePauw University and Illinois Wesleyan University in a tri­meet on Saturday at DePauw. 
"We've seen DePauw at some of our invitationals, and they have a strong team," said Gustafson. "However, we should make a good showing. We'll give it our best shot, and I'm expecting a good meet." 

Irish women open spring season by hosting Eck Doubles Classic 
Special to the Observer a very competitive field," Irish coach Jay 
The Notre Dame Louderback said. "This is a women's tennis team faces good way for us to get back its first competition of the into a competitive mode. second semester when the We know the doubles will Irish play host to the third be very important for us annual Eck Doubles Classic this spring and I'm inter­
this weekend at the Eck ested to see how we stack Tennis Pavilion. The three­up against some of these 
day tournament will get teams." underway at 1 p.m. on Friday and continue at 10 Leading the field will be 
a.m. Saturday, and 9 a.m. Notre Dame's top doubles 
on Sunday. combination of junior A total of 11 squads will Tracy Barton and Kristy field three to four doubles Faustmann. They com­tandems in the 32-team bined for a 13-3 record last fall and won the Rolex
field. In addition to the Irish, Northern Illinois, Midwest indoor title to 
Ohio State, Marquette, qualify for the national Fordham, Purdue, Temple, indoor championships and Miami of Ohio, Illinois and enter the tournament Eastern Michigan will be ranked 12th nationally. included in this year's Other top Irish teams 
include freshmen Terri

field. "I think this will again be Vitale and Lisa Tholen. 
Belles will try to bounce back after shattering loss 
I By CHRIS BACON / Saint Mary's sports editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team fell hard in Tuesday night's loss to 9-3 Lake Forest, 81-7 2, which ended the Belles four-gam·e winning streak. 
The Belles are putting the pieces together again in prepa­ration for tomorrow afternoon's matchup with Albion College. 
"They (Lake Forest} did all the little things right and we did all the little things wrong," explained Belles head coach Marv Wood. "I think we pan­icked and that was detrimental to us. But now we have to for­get the last game and look for­ward to Albion." 

Despite its 6-8 record Albion poses a threat to the Belles. First, Albion has two strong players in Shannon Goeddeke 
(12.7 ppg, 7.2 rpg) and Richelle Reilly (16.5 ppg, 6.7 rpg). 
Albion has performed the same as Saint Mary's against similar opponents. However, the Belles don't anticipate the need for changes in their ofTen­sive or defensive game, just im­provements. 
"We are not as bad as we performed (Tuesday ). We have to get our confidence back and do those little things. Those are what makes the difference," explains Wood. 
The little things, such as good passing, timing and shot selec­tion, as well as rebounding are what keeps every offense work­ing. The team hopes to see im­provements in all of these ar­eas. The Belles also look to ju­nior forward Janet Libbing to lead the way. 


"Janet offensively has come on extremely strong, is confi­dent and has excellent perime­ter shooting," praised Wood. "She is a force on boards. I think she has found her niche and she feels comfortable." 
While Wood's expectations of Libbing on offense and defense remain high, the Belles' star downplays her scoring abilities. 
"I expect strong boards and taking the right shots. I don't expect points because they 
SuPport
research. 
&•:aAmerican Heart 
"~Association 
IMMIGRATION LAW PRAOICIONERS 
Pool  Catherine  
GRESK  SINGLETON  
1800 INBTOWir  

lndicln.,lis, IN 46204 
(317) 63~9777 
lni1ial in-eHict consuftali011 no marge
nUtilintN ~lies 

Application for Student Executive Committee Due Friday, February 1st 1991 by 4:00 pm to Student Government Secretary • Barb 2nd Floor LaFortune Be a part of Notre Dame's ONLY 150tl• Anniversary 
happen if they happen. Boards I expect, because of my own hustling underneath," said Libbing. 
Overall, both Wood and Libbing know that team confi­dence and performance is the key to a victory tomorrow. 
"As a team, we have to be able to make fewer turnovers. We must make them play against us, instead of us playing their game," concluded Libbing. 
ND swim teams travelling east for two meets 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's swim teams take to the road this weekend when they travel to Cleveland State on Friday and St. Bonaventure on Saturday. 
The Irish men and women both defeated Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure last sea­son. Last year the Irish men beat the Vikings 143-92 and the Bonnies 140-97. Brian Rini captured first in the 200-yard butterfly in both of those meets. 
The women defeated Cleveland State 149-85 and St. Bonaventure 17 5-116 last sea­son. Tanya Williams led the charge in the St. Bonaventure match with victories in the 100­yard breaststroke, 1,000-yard freestyle and the 100-yard but­terfly. 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
bench. Ellery has played the sixth-man role all season. 
"I think that in Kevin's situa­tions, against a man-to-man, he's going to take people in­side," Phelps says. "(Against zones) Kevin has got to read when to kick it out. When he reads what he has against a zone inside knowing that there are going to be two or three guys around, people are going to be open on the outside, and he's got to read more of an as­sist role." 
The Irish will start Daimon Sweet (15.6 ppg), Keith Tower and Jon Ross in the frontcourt, while Tim Singleton {6.6 apg) and Elmer Bennett (13.4 ppg) will start at the guards. 


----------~-----...-------------,..._...---------~~---------__,.~----------------·~ -~ -­
I 
I t 
The Observer 

11} page 20 
I \1
In Irish runners to open season
'' 

By HUGH MUNDY

i: ll 
sports writer 


\ (1
II[ The Notre Dame men's track team begins its season on
:\ 
Saturday as the Irish travel to

I ' l 
Kalamazoo for the Eastern 
Michigan Invitational. The contest, which features 

\ 
( 
squads from numerous mid­western colleges such as

1 Marquette and the University of Michigan, will prepare the Irish for a series of important up­coming events, culminating with the IC4A meet in March. 
Coach Joe Piane, while opti­mistic about his squad's prospects, noted that the meet is primarily a "warm up" for later season contests. 
"It's still early," noted Piane. "Many of our distance guys will work on developing speed by competing in shorter races." 
Senior captain and middle distance runner Ryan Cahill echoed his coach's sentiments. 
"This meet is an intermediate step between early season practices and bigger meets like 

Marinovich charged with misdemeanor 
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. {AP) -A misdemeanor charge of possession of cocaine was filed against Southern California quarterback Todd Marinovich, Orange County deputy district attorney Mike Koski said Thursday. 
"It was filed as a misde­meanor because he had less than half a gram (of cocaine) in his possession, according to the police report," Koski said. "The crime lab determined there were 445 milligrams of a 


I ' 
! 
Joe Piane 
Central Collegiates," Cahill said. 
Nevertheless, Cahill antici­pates a competitive effort from the team. 
"We need good performances from everyone," he remarked. 
Although Notre Dame will be without the service of sev­eral key members, including in­jured distance specialist Mike O'Connor, Piane will look to a solid distance corps as well as a 
substance containing cocaine." 
Koski said a misdemeanor charge of possessing less than half an ounce of marijuana also was filed against Marinovich. 
The maximum penalty for a misdemeanor count of posses­sion of cocaine is six months in jail, a $1,000 fine or both. The maximum penalty for posses­sion of less than an ounce of marijuana is a $100 fine. 
"He would be eligible for a drug diversion program, which would result in the charges be-


Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening of a South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self•knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call234-5656. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 1991-1992 SCHOOL YEAR 
Super landlords  Inexpensive  
5 and 6 bedrooms  Security Systems  
3 houses left  Close to campus  

CaU Flynn,s Rentals 
289-6621 
JJIDIPrPtr 8ll~ 
Inrnlltrr]]])£t( ~~©tr 
Tim®~ 

{on Sunday} We Love you! Cathode • Ray Tube,tbe Harpsichord, tbe Kateater, and Angy 

talented group of sprinters and throwers to provide the bulk of the scoring. 
"Our main goal for this week­end is to be competitive and stay healthy," said Piane. 
"We won't be putting it all together until Central Collegiates." 
The Irish will have the oppor­tunity to showcase its talent at home 
on February 2 as the squad hosts the Meyo Invitational. 
The Notre Dame women's track team travel to Eastern Michigan as well Saturday. It will be the first time that the squad will travel as a group for a competition. 
The majority of the squad will be making its collegiate varsity level debut as this is the inau­gural season for women's var­sity track at Notre Dame. The women will be looking to gain confidence before playing host to the annual Meyo and Alex Wilson Invitational meets. 
"This weekend will be very 
ing dismissed," Koski said. "That's up to him, whether he'd want to take advantage of that. He would have been eligible for a drug diversion program even if a felony charge had been filed." 
Marinovich, 21, is scheduled to be arraigned Feb. 11 in Harbor Municipal Court. 
Marinovich was arrested for investigation of cocaine posses­sion at 4:15 a.m. Sunday morn­ing while walking down the center of a residential street. 


-----, 
Friday, January 25, 1991 
Spring semester offers club sport opportuinities 
The second semester brings 
many opportunities in club sports to the Notre Dame campus. Bengal Bouts will be contested this spring, and the Notre Dame crew and sailing teams continue to excel. The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Synchronized Swim Club's 


team  recently enjoyed  a  
successful weekend at the University of Michigan's  Rolando  de Aguiar  
Maize & Blue Invitational.  Club Corner  
Placing fifth  out of eight  
teams, the club saw several  

strong individual performances. Nicole Rizzo achieved fourth place in solos, while Kevyn Comstock placed sixth in the same event. Ann Ball placed sixth in the Novice Figures competition. Kristin Holmes, Anna Burke, and Erin Peter earned sixth place in the Trio event. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were excelling on the slopes as well as in the pool last weekend, as the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Ski Club competed. The Notre Dame men's team placed third last weekend, as several strong individual performances were turned in by the Irish. Bob Reich finished in second place in the race, as Kim Peterson and Dave Barry also turned in excellent times for the Irish. "The men's team has a really good chance to go to regionals and beyond," said Reich. "Tryouts were very competitive." The Saint Mary's team finished fourth overall, as Beth Mcintosh achieved the best time for the Belles. Katie Daniels, Molly McDonald, and Rachel Deck finished with the second, third, and fourth best times, respectively, for Saint Mary's. Notre Dame's women's team finished just behind Saint Mary's with a fifth place showing. Jo Jo Gehl crossed the line fastest for the Irish, as Bridget Underwood and Ann Laing supported her effort. The Ski Club will travel to Crystal Mountain this weekend. The team will travel to Ohio on February 2-3, and will compete in divisional competition the following weekend. 
The newly formed Cycling Club has over 30 riders competing in its initial season. The cycling club's team will compete in the Midwest Collegiate Cycling Conference, and will travel to a different member school each weekend from February until late April to race. 
Why is the Blessed Mother appearing daily in Medjugorje? 
On March 28, 1990, Fr. Michael O'Carroll CSSp, author of five encyclopedias on the doctrine and spirituality of the Church, concluded a lecture at Notre Dame by stating: "The good fruits of Medjugorje are unparalleled in the history of the Church!" 
Come and hear one of the parish priests from Medjugorje 
Fr. Philip Pavich, OFM 
7:30P.M. 
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 
Washington Hall 
(Just to the right of the Administration Building) 
University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by The Knights of the Immaculata, in conjunction with Queen of Peace Ministries 

Friday, January 25, 1991 
Wrestlers gain respect in tie against Oregon 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
Wintertime, with the NCAA basketball season in full swing, is often called the time of upsets. 
Upsets, however, are not con­fined to the parquee floor. 
Witness the Notre Dame wrestling team, which contin­ued its spring resurgence last night as it upset the 21st­ranked Oregon Ducks with an 18-18 tie at the Joyce ACC. 
The Ducks, previously unde­

. feated and untied, fell to 8-0-1 overall. The Irish, who should gain a measure of respect after their hard-fought loss to Purdue and hotly-contested tie with Oregon, now stand at 3-4­
1. 
"The meet went according to plan," stated Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann. "We knew it would be close. Our kids did a good job. 
"In a meet like this, every match is critical. I think that it was especially critical that Chris Jensen held off a major decision in the 118-pound match. Chris was a key to the total team effort." 

Jensen, unranked, fell to the second-ranked wrestler in his weight class, junior Dan Vidlak. 
Marcus Gowens, ranked 12th in the nation at 126 pounds, handily dispatched Pat Hirai of Oregon. 
Oregon held a comfortable 12-3 lead, and stood on the brink of driving the nails into Notre Dame's coffin. Yet the Irish wrestled ferociously to tie the match 12-12. 
. .,. 
page 21 

Irish men, women fencers open at Cleveland State 



Mark Gerardi led the Irish to a tie with Oregon. 
The Observer 
Notre Dame Sports Information 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing team 
dismantled several Midwestern 
opponents in their first tour­
nament of the 1991 season. 
This week, the Irish will travel 
to Cleveland State in what will 
likely be another demonstration 
of Irish superiority in the sport. 
A number of Midwestern 
schools will be in Cleveland. 
Detroit, Case Western, Wayne 
State, Cleveland State, Eastern 
Michigan, and Michigan will 
duel with the Irish. 
The Irish men have lost a to­tal of seven matches to these five teams, six of which have come to Cleveland State. Notre Dame faced Cleveland State last weekend, and soundly defeated the Vikings, 26-1. 
The Notre Dame men will send nearly their entire team to Cleveland, but several top fencers will not be able to per­form. Sophomore foilist Noel Young is out with an unspeci­fied illness. Jubba Beshin, a member of the epee team, has a back injury which will keep him on the sidelines in Cleveland. Epeeist David Calderhead will be competing in a tournament in Montreal, and sabreman Leszez Nowosielski will be out for the Irish as well. 
Despite these injuries, Irish coaches remain confident about their team's chances. 
"There are some tough teams, but I think we will do well," said assistant coach Mike Marx. 
"Last weekend we had a good tournament, but there was no 
Yves Auriol 
competition," said head 
women's coach Yves Auriol. 
Indeed, the Irish men could find little challenge in the teams they faced at Northwestern University. In a total of 189 matches, the Irish lost only 22, and were able to shut out the University of Chicago and hold Lawrence, Cleveland State, and Northwestern to a total of four victories in their bouts. 
The women's team had as good a showing as the men in Evanston, defeating their op­ponents by a total of 52-12. Three Irish women came in with undefeated records after the tournament. 
With no injuries entering this weekend's competition, Notre Dame should have little trouble with its opponents in Cleveland. Both the men's and women's teams will face their first tests February 1-2, when the Irish travel to Princeton. 
"We will fence Princeton, NYU, Duke, St. John's at Princeton in February," said Auriol. "All schools with good fencing programs." 

Layton scored a takedown in the first period of his match, and went on to win 5-2. Soehnlen, ·meanwhile, held on for a 2-1 win over pesky Darren Gustafson. 
In the 167-pound match, Mark Gerardi (No. 11) fell be­hind 3-0 in the second period before thoroughly dominating Oregon's Mat Sprague (No. 12) over the final two minutes for a 6-3 win. 
Gerardi's victory notched the meet at 12-12, and also gave a visible shock to the Oregon coaches and wrestlers. 
The shock of Gerardi's win, however, paled in comparison to the fire lit under the Notre 
Dame bench by the perfor­mance of freshman J.J. McGrew. 
McGrew pinned Jeff McCoy in the 177 -pound match for Notre Dame's final win of the night. McGrew, who circled and at­tacked his opponent like a cheetah preying on a wilde­beast, notched the pin with :46 seconds left in the match to give the Irish an 18-12 lead. 
"McGrew will be a great one," prophesied McCann. "He's got the ingredients: ability and heart. And he only knows one speed: go. The holidays were tough for him because of nose surgery, but he is back now." 


MON-FRI. 12:00 NOON· 6 pm CALL for SAT. hours 
I 212-1s1o I 
DICK WTSNER • OWNER 


* 
Full Color Reproduction of the Works of over 100 Master Artists 

* 
Fantastic Low Prices: Most Large Prints are 3 for only $15! 

* 
Wide Variety of photographs ...... beautiful landscapes to high tech., ETC. 


*This is your Last Opportunity to DECORATE INEXPENSIVELY! 
CAMPUS 
portsportsportsoortsport
20%-50°10 O~F All items in stock 
... including shoes, basketbaJ.ls, volleyballs, soccerballs, tennis, racquetball, and squash rackets, hockey, Lacrosse, and field hockey sticks, swimming suits. 
*Team uniforms ordered in January will be 20o/o off Corner of Edison Rd. & S.R. 23 (Next to Tracks Records) 273-9000 Notre Dame Student Owned 
.. 


·--------------------_..---------------.--------~--------~------------------------~---­
• 
~ 
iH page 22 The Observer 
: I ')'l I \) Notre Dame hockey to host Kent State 

By RICH KURZ

ill 
Sports Writer 

~ :\ 
Good things usually happen'\ \ 

for the Notre Dame hockey 

\ \\ 
team when they take the ice at 

\ 
the Joyce ACC, things like 10 wins in 11 games. And the Irish will play two games at home this weekend.

li 
I I 
Their foe will be the Kent

) ~ 
State Golden Flashes, who are

'\ I : 
coming off a big win against 

Ohio State. The Irish already 1 have played the Golden Flashes I twice this season (in 
\ i 
I 
November), with both games

I 
being played at Kent State. 1 \ Those two away games were the most successful outings
\ 
Notre Dame has had on the

I 
road, as the Irish chalked up a 7-4 win and a 5-5 tie. 

I 
1 I The Irish lead the all-time \ series 9-4-3, in a series that 
~ 
dates to 1985. Kent State hasn't won at Notre Dame since 1986,

\ 
when they scored a 4-1 victory. Overall, the Irish are14-2 against the Golden Flashes at home. 
Since winning at Kent State, the Irish have had their trou­

l \ :. \ 

\ ', { bles on the road, losing seven away games in that span. But the Notre Dame offense comes
Ill I 
alive at home, scoring 5.6 goals

\ ' 
at home, compared with 2.7 on 

I 
the road. In the first period of 

I 
games at the JACC, the Irish 

I 
have outscored their opponents

\ 
19-6, leading Notre Dame· to a 
10-game home-win streak. 
What does this mean with Kent State on the horizon? It led Notre Dame head coach Ric Schafer to say, "obviously I'm glad to be at home. We had good attendance last weekend and I hope it spreads. I know for sure (the team) responds when we get good attendance." 
Junior left wing Mike Curry said, "It's great when we get a student section, like (Friday), it helps pull you through the late part of the game." 
Kent State, led by Sam Thornbury (12 goals, 19 as­sists) and Ross Antonini (lOg, 1Oa), has recently gained entry into the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, a move that "involves a higher level of play," according to Schafer. And they take a physical toll on opponents. 
"They're a physical team, they do a lot of banging," said junior co-captain David Bankoske. "They never quit, they keep coming at you. If 

.{ you're not mentally prepared, you'll get run over." Mike Curry agreed with Bankoske. "They're one of the 
The Observer/Scott McCann 
Lou Zadra and the Irish hockey team will host Kent State Friday and 
Saturday night at the Joyce ACC. 

. more physical teams we play. They come out and hit you." The Irish are led by a troika ofjuniors, Bankoske, Curry and Lou Zadra. Together the three have combined for 42 goals and 40 assists, 37.7% of the total 
doesn't necessarily mean that the Notre Dame offense re­volves around them. · 
"We· have confidence in everyone," said Bankoske, "we have good sophomores like Curtis J anieke and Sterling Black." 
Freshman goalie Greg Louder continues to excel in goal for Notre Dame. His save percent­age is .875 and he has allowed only 3. 99 goals per game. 
Schafer foresees a couple of good hockey games with Kent State for the weekend. 
"We're fairly even," said 
·Schafer. "We had physical games (last November), and I expect more of the same. (Kent State) is a good team. I expect a good series." 

--------, 
Friday, January 25, 1991 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Last chance to sample the aerobics classes offered by Non-Varsity Athletics for free -today and Sunday. Call NVA at 239-6100 for details. 
Squash: Anyone interested in playing squash should come to Court No. 2 in the JACC Monday, Jan. 28 at 7:30 p.m. Any questions, contact Heather at x2880. 
Two I.Y.H.L Minimite teams will be featured in an exhibition hockey game between periods 1 and 2 of this Saturday's Notre Dame Hockey Game vs. Kent State. The game begins at 7:30 p.m. 
Anyone interested in becoming commissioner for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament should pick up an application at the SUB secretary, 2nd floor, LaFortune. Applications are due on Friday, Feb. 3. Any questions or comments should be addressed to Kevin McGee at 234-8817. 
Men's Volleyball Club will play their first home match against Brock College of Canada on Saturday, Jan. 26 at 12 
p.m. in the pit of the JACC. Their second home match is Monday, Jan. 28 versus Ferris State at 7:30p.m., also in the pit. Admission is free, so come and enjoy some fast-paced volleyball action. 
The Tai Kwon Do Club would like to announce new practice hours this semester. The club will meet Monday's and Wednesdays from 7:30p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Fencing Gym of the ACC. Beginners should plan to be there Monday, Jan. 28. If you have any questions, contact Lisa at x4868 or Tim at x1595. 
Late Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Contact the LNO representative in your hall for information on the latest night of the year -Late Night Olympics, Friday, February 1. 
NO Boxing practices have begun for the 61st Bengal Bouts. Practices are held at 3:45 p.m. every weekday in the Boxing Room. Any questions, call Norm Conley at 233-8133. 
The ND Cricket Club will have a practic~ and organizational meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 30 at 10 _p.m. in Loftus. All interested students and faculty are encouraged to attend and bring equipment. Call Mark at x3419 or Tim at X 1556 for information. 



~===--~===============================----------~ 
~ 6i) "Since 1911" '~/"'Z_L'-'·.l:.) 
PASTA DISHES ~ "--.-/ ......
LASAGNA • ., FETTUCINE ALFREDO MANICOTTI
~k=~" O ....IA.. Alit. 
CACCIATORE .. ~ • '.-:J 
~~=!~:E Dinner 4PM-11PM "The _Italian " BANQUET OPEN SUN & Cloaed Mon Rrstorante 
ROOM 

CiCJ Ill Please present~h~sg. 232•4244 
_ ~coupon when ordering South Of Notre Dames' Golden Dome 
~ 1412 South Bend Avenue 

IF.!\travelmore 
~Carlson Travel Network ATTENTION FACUL TY,STAFF,STUDENTS 

Please visit our new location at 1723 South Bend Avenue (Next to Frank·s Red Hots) 
New Hours: 8 am, 5:30pm Monday--Friday Please call284--2051 or 1--800--232--2681 236--2656 Saturday only 9 am--12 noon 
STOP BY AND REGISTER TO WIN 2 FREE TICKETS ANYWHERE IN THE CONTINENTAL U.S. WINNERS TO BE ANNOUNCED AT OUR GRAND OPENING. 


TANNING 
WITH EVERY PACKAGE PURCHASE! 
WITH THIS AD! FOR A VERY LIMITED TIMEI EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION CALL TODAY 
272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC.. STATE RD. 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND, IN 
Friday, January 25, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
,. 
LECTURE CIRCUIT CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Floats on fish lines 5--au rhum 9 Party in . Penshurst 
13 Sh~kespeare's 
"food of love" 14 New Harmony, Ind., founder 15 Rose Bowl 
winner: 1986 16 Threefold 17 Site of William 
the Conqueror's tomb 18 Fisherman's lure 19 Bart Starr was one 22 Sally 
23 Messy one 24 Pitch ind1cator 27 Sacred 
composition 31 Pierce 35 ·---podrida 37 Tuesday, in 
Tours 38 Beatles movie: 1968 41 Showed sudden interest 42 Collector of the 
rain in Spain 43 "--I say ..." 44 Church council 
site 45 Tastes 47 Water barrier 50 A mine shaft 


29 Actress Purviance 30 Haberdashery section 31 Computer ntwk. 32 Rip or rip along 33 Der-­(Adenauer) 34 Erred 36 Sheltered spot 
39 Vision-related 
40 Put finishing touches on 
SPELUNKER 

46 Gushes 48 Australian 
"bear" 49 Tiny 51 Condiment 
bottle 
52 Breathing disorder 
53 Slick and nasty 54 Billfold items 55 The Gales' pet 56 Epic figure 57 Killer whales 58 Tallow-yielding 
African tree 59 Up-and-down line 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
Friday 

7 and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Good Fellas." Annen berg Audito­rium, Snite Museum. 
7 p.m. Artists Reception. Lobby, Little Theater at Saint 
Mary's. 
MENUS 

Notre Dame 
Fried Perch Chili Crispitoes Broccoli, Cheese, Rice Casserole Flank Steak Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Southern Style Chicken'n Dumplings 
Rice Con Queso a Ia Mode Baked Perch Italienne Deli Bar 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\F ~ Q) FP..~ E~G\1 ~tij> PULL \JP JUST A~ WE. I·HT rn 
ROC~S. ~£ M\G\-\1, IF Wt'RE LUCK'{ I ClfAR ~ RAIJ\N£ ~0 1-\A'-lE 1\-\E. R\~ Of" OJR. 
l\'J£S.' 

BILL WATTERSON 
ON -rnt. On.I£R 1-'A~D, IF WE til\~, WE'll PROBABl'{ Sl'e-ID 
0\JR K'« R£~P.\K\NG D~~S ~~pUP T6 t-\&o.Q.IINt'S M~l> \K~'4~t-.lc;JS FLUIDS.' 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE FAR SIDE 

55 Alice Walker's prize-winning book 
59 Farm hand, at times 60 Hair style 61 Quarrel 62 Raison d'-­63 Beat 64 Abounds 65 Temper 66 Handle, to Hadrian 67 Brace 
DOWN 

1 Beast of burden 2 Wicker 3 Intelligence-test 
man 4 Like the 

Mohawk Trail 5 --Raton, Fla. 6 Out 7 Pager signals 8 Valid for one 
year only: Fr. 
9 Open carriage 10 Pine 11 Insult 12 Broadway 
mugger 13 Brd. sessions 20 Costain's "-­
the Salt" 21 Kind of butterfly 25 Otherwise 
28 Division of a march 
GARY LARSON 

y! -:I~ yo~ kids to klloC t< 1t o +t back there !...0..­so help me 1'11 jUst ial<ie 
this caro.nd drive it of+ the f.Yst c\i H r come to.' 
Lemmings on vacation 


• 


SPIKE LEE FESTIVAL LECTURE: FEB. 4 STEPAN CENTER 7:30 PM JAN. 25: Tickets for NO and SMC students only Jan. 28-29. $3 JAN. 26: Tickets for the general public Jan. 30-Feb. 1. $5 All tnovtesLa! :ortune Info. Desk 8 and  MOVIES: DO THE RIGHT THING MO BETTER BLUES at Cushing Auditorium 10:30 pn1. $2 STUDENT UNION BOARD  

.,._ 
..-----------~~--~-,_----------------------------------~~---~ ------­
Sports .• 
page 24 Friday, January 25, 1991 
Ismail will forego senior year to enter NFL draft 
-~--­

) . 
' I
\ ! 
\ 
By FRANK PASTOR 
Associate Sports Editor 

Following months of specula­tion, Notre Dame flanker Raghib "Rocket" Ismail made the announcement most ex­pected on Thursday but for reasons few anticipated. 
Ismail, the two-time All­American and 1990 Heisman Trophy runnerup, announced his decision to forego his senior year at Notre Dame to enter April's National Football League draft at a satellite news conference held Thursday at WNDU-TV studios. 
Although he made the final decision after consulting with Head Coach Lou Holtz on Monday, Ismail's mind was made up as early as Jan. 2 when he heard the shocking news of Zora Zorich's death. 
"This decision wasn't one that happened overnight," Ismail said...As soon as the Orange Bowl was over and especially after my friend Chris Zorich's mother passed away, it's something that made me realize that things in life don't always happen the way you want them to. 
"It got to the point when his mother passed away, it was kind of like a reality check for me. I wanted to do something for my mother and my family. Salary caps and everything aside, if the people you want to do something for aren't there next year, it's really crushing. While the opportunity is there to help my family out, I know it's an advantage I have to take." 

Raghlb Ismail 

"After visiting with him," Head Coach Lou Holtz said, "I am convinced he is happy with his decision. B,ecause of this, we are very happy for him. We feel fortunate to have been associated with a person the caliber of 'Rocket'. He will be an asset to any organization." 
Memories of Rocket will endure 
It seemed the stage was set on that warm night in Miami when Raghib Ismail returned that punt for a touchdown to apparently defeat Colorado in the closing seconds of the Orange Bowl. 
The script might have read that Ismail would just keep running through the endzone into the locker room, where he would briefly meet with the media -every Ismail en­counter with the media is brief if not nonexistent -and tell them he was jumping ship to the National Football League. A group of agents would have a suitcase full of money waiting outside the stadium, and Ismail would be both rich and remembered for supplying one of the best finishes in bowl game history. 
But the decision to turn pro -like the touchdown that was called back because of clipping -was not that sim­ple. Ismail finally declared his intention to apply for the NFL draft on Thursday morning, a decision he said was not reached until Monday. 
It's easy -especially for the growing number of skeptics who follow college football ­to second-guess Ismail, to say that he took the money and 

Greg Guffey 
Sports Editor 
ran, to say that the green paper with Grant and Franklin speaks louder than the paper he would receive next May. 
After all, it's impossible that Ismail's paycheck would gain any zeroes if he presented some general manager with a diploma, even if it is from Notre Dame. I could also probably count the number of people on one finger who would reject the money and stay in school for "the educational experience." 
-Ismail will start over in the NFL, the new kid on the block whose team probably won't make it to the promised land on his speed alone. He will be chased every week by profes­sionals who want to prove that his college credentials are use­less in the pros. 
But the biggest test on this campus might be whether he completes that degree because he played for Notre Dame, where the people are suppos­edly students before athletes. 

Ismail said he will complete his degree requirements at Notre Dame during the off­seasons, and that's also a statement that will be greeted with skepticism. Saying and doing are often not intertwined. 
But you get the sense that Ismail's case is unique, that he will someday possess his degree. He didn't spend the last three years with his arms raised in the air every time he made a catch or a return. He didn't stand in the locker room and pile praise upon himself. 
In a college football world of phonies, Rocket Ismail was the real thing. He seemed genuinely impressed and embarrassed when people talked about him in su­perlatives. He professed to be a team player and few would argue with that. 
The memories of Ismail at Notre Dame are many. The two kickoff returns ·for touchdowns against Michigan his sophomore year would rank pretty high. So would the 94-yard kickoff return for a touchdown against Miami 
see MEMORY I page 18 
Ismail publicly expressed his intention to return for his se­nior year at Notre Dame on several occasions this season, most notably at December's Heisman Trophy ceremony. He changed his mind several times in the weeks following the an­nouncement, however, before his brother told him of Zora Zorich's death. 
"It was ironic because all his life Chris (Zorich) had been striving and working to get into a situation where he could make it better for her," Ismail said, "and literally the day he could have done that. .. she passed away. I was thinking, what if that happened to me?" 
Ismail will be 30 credits shy of graduating from the University of Notre Dame fol­lowing the spring semester. He assured reporters that he will return to the university during the offseason to finish work toward his degree. 
"That's going to be my goal for the first year or two years after the season's over," Ismail said. "There is no doubt what­soever that I will graduate from this university. I am very adamant about this." 
Enthusiastic and accomodat­ing, Ismail proved a stark con­trast to the shy, awkward su­perstar who hid in laundry carts and shower stalls to dodge reporters during the season. It is a role Ismail will be expected to perform with frequency in the NFL, where he will be considered not only a football player but a public fig­ure as well. 
"It'll be exciting and it's 
see ROCKET I page 18 



Irish to host No. 18 Virginia 
By KEN TYSIAC 
Associate Sports Editor 

A tough schedule is getting tougher for the Notre Dame basketball team. 
The Irish, who are coming off Tuesday's disappointing 62-52 loss to Rutgers, will host yet another tough opponent Saturday at 4 p.m. at the Joyce ACC when the Virginia Cavaliers come to town. 
The Cavaliers, currently ranked No. 18 in the nation, will bring a 13-4 record into Saturday's matchup against 7­10 Notre Dame. Virginia will be the seventh ranked team the Irish have faced this season. 
Point guard John Crotty (15.4 ppg, 6.1 apg) will handle the ball and provide the outside scoring punch for the Cavaliers. Forward Bryant Stith (20.2 ppg) will be counted on for points in the paint. 
"John Crotty, of course, is, I think, one of the premier guards in the country," Irish coach Digger Phelps says. "He makes so many good things happen with his game. He does a good job penetrating and can shoot the threes. I think Stith makes things happen for them, too. He is a deceptive-type player. With his size, he can score inside, he is very active on the boards, and they have pretty good balance (as a team)." 
Crotty was recruited by Phelps as a high school senior. Phelps says the Cavaliers' all­time assist leader chose Virginia instead so he would have a chance to play in the vaunted Atlantic Coast Conference, of which Virginia is a member. 
"We had (David) Rivers as a senior when he (Crotty) would have been a freshman," Phelps says, "so I think that was a big factor in his decision. I think that's where he was able to step in as a freshman at Virginia and play in the Atlantic Coast Conference. The league itself, the ACC, was probably another reason why he leaned toward Virginia." 
Kenny Turner (14.1 ppg) will also look to score in the front­court for the Cavaliers, along with Ted Jeffries. Cornel Parker will replace the injured Anthony Oliver in the backcourt to round out the lineup. 
Many of Notre Dame's recent problems on the court are a di­rect result of the loss of junior forward LaPhonso Ellis to aca­demic ineligibility. Without Ellis, the Irish lack a serious inside scoring threat. 
"I don't know if we've got that inside crunch now, so now it's more us making shots on the perimeter. I think we also miss Ellis's strength on the offensive boards; that was obvious (against Rutgers)," Phelps says. 
For now, it appears that se­nior forward Kevin Ellery will have to get things done for Notre Dame in the paint off the 
see HOOPS I page 19 





