


ltl2·1992 
server
IISQUICENUNNIAL 
,~f.P&~~ 
·Q&
. f!li--­
Samt Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 16 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Yugoslav forces pound Croats; 26 dead Sunday 
ZAGHEB, Yugoslavia (AP) ­Yugoslav tanks and troops pounded Croatian positions again Sunday In reprisal for blockades of federal garrisons, and the breakaway republic said it had captured several army posts. 
The Croatian blockade of fed­eral outposts triggered a dra­matic escalation in the fighting that has claimed more than 400 lives since the republic declared independence from Yugoslavia on June 25. 
Air raid sirens sounded in Zagreb for the first time Sun­day, and jets streaked overhead but did not attack the Croatian capital. Elsewhere in the repub­lic, at least 26 J:ieople died in a 24-hour period ending Sunday Horvat, 73, who remembered night. bombing raids during World 
"We are not afraid. When you War II. are in your own home you can't .Just in case, extra steel bar­be afraid," said Nikola Pribanic, ricades were put up around the 37-year-old watchman at a Zagreb's government buildings, house on Mhanoviceva Street, and tank traps and other bar­as he rushed people into an air riers were fortified. raid cellar. Croat forces -after weeks of 
"I don't believe they'd really setbacks in fighting with federal bomb Zagreb," said Valentin troops and rebellious Serbs 

Philippines senate rejects 
U.S. base agreement 
MANILA, Philippines (AP) ­The Philippines Senate refused to extend the lease for the Subic Bay naval base Monday in a vote that could end U.S. military presence In the islands and close the largest U.S. military base in Asia. 
Twelve of the 23 senators ­four more votes than necessary -opposed the agreement that would have extended the lease on the base for 10 years. 
Senate President Jovito Sa­longa, who cast the 12th vote, declared "the treaty is de­feated." 
President Corazon Aquino said earlier that she would hold a referendum to extend the lease on the base, the largest in Asia, for 10 years. 
Mrs. Aquino, who signed a manifesto six years ago oppos­Ing the U.S. bases, called for a "people power" upsurge of the kind that swept her into office in 1986 to raise signatures for the national vote against the Senate decision. 
If Mrs. Aquino fails, the clo­sure of Subic would mark the end of an era of U.S. military presence on the islands that began in the last century. The United States inherited Subic from the Spanish in 1898. 
The lease agreement called for the United States to pay the Philippines $203 million annu­ally to keep the Subic Bay base for 10 more years. 
U.S. officials decided to give up nearby Clark Air Base be­cause of damage caused by the June eruptions of Mount Pinatubo. Agreement was reached earlier to close four smaller bases. 
Several thousand people con­verged on the Senate building early Monday with signs and placards urging ratification of the agreement. 
By MEREDITH 
MCCULLOUGH 
Assistant News Editor 
The future of arms control, 
the prospect of a future world 
security order and ideas for 
sustaining world order were is­
sues addressed by the Kroc In­
stitute for Inter-nation Peace 
Studies panel Friday during 
their discussion titled 
"Peacemaking in the Global 
Context." 
As part of the symposium "Global Peace and Develop­ment: Prospects for the Fu­ture," the panel explored dif­ferent avenues for achieving peace while maintaining a real­istic frame of mind. 
"We are groping for a vision of world order that is intellec­tually coherent, a vision that is politically, economically and environmentally feasible, a vi­sion that is morally uplifting and one that takes people seri­ously," said Robert Johanson, professor of government and international studies and senior fellow in the Kroc Institute. 
Johansen, who served as moderator during the panel, continued by introducing the participants of the discussion, "three very distinguished people contributing their angle 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 


Visiting fans 
Notre Dame students Laura Schnorenberg and Jamie Morriss~ aside Saint Mary's student Nancy Chelius while cheering on the Irish football team in Ann Arbor, Mich. Saturday afternoon. 
living in their territory claimed Sunday to have cap­tured more than 400 federal soldiers and a large cache of arms. 
Croatian Defense Minister Luka Bebic said the troops sur­rendered at six federal army barracks, two military ware­houses and two watchtowers in 
see CROATIA/ page 4 

Panel discusses global peace at ND symposium 
of vision on what the new world 
order might be." 
Each of the three speakers 
presented a distinct area of fo­
cus: Spurgeon Keeny, president 
and executive director of the 
Arms Control Association, con­
centrated primarily on defense; 
Randall Forsberg, director of 
the Institute for Defense and 
Disarmament Studies, on 
democracy; and Lester Brown, 
president and senior researcher 
of the Worldwatch Institut~on 
the environment. 
"It is an understatement to 
say we live in truly extraordi­
nary times," said Keeny, ad­
d.ressing the "prospects for 
arms control in the near term 
in this new environment." 
While international events in 
the past two years, and espe­
cially past few months have 
brought about many 
"irreversible" changes that 
have put an end to the cold war, 
arms control is still a key issue, 
according to Keeny. 
"The United States can not 
wait until the situation in the 
Soviet Union has sorted itself 
out" to make progress in con­
trolling weaponry, he said. 
Keeny proposed that the "first 

order of business" include 
see PEACE I page 4 
Harkin joins Democratic pres. race 

WINTERSET, Iowa (AP) ­Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin jumped into the Democratic presiden­tial race Sunday with a pop­ulist's fiery call to "take back government from the privileged few" and return the party to its roots. 
Harkin spelled out a cam­paign aimed at "the people who pull the load and pay the taxes," those he said had been betrayed by "the greed and selfishness of George Herbert Walker Bush and J. Danforth Quayle." 
He dismissed his difficult odds against President Bush, even as he touted his bid to "start investing here in Amer­ica." 
"There are those who say that we're a long shot, that we 
see HARKIN I page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Security takes the fun out of football 
First were the NDs in the end zones. Then there were giant, full-color golden domes in the end zones, sesquicentennial patches on the sleeves of ND uniforms and blue, ankle-high socks. 

Everyone knew that DAVID KINNEY worse fates loomed on the Associate News 
horizon. __...,Eo.lildwitlllOo~r-­
Now, they're breaking up tailgaters outside the hallowed playing fields of Notre Dame football. 
Shocking: "Notre Dame Security responded to a large gathering of students tailgating in White Field North." read the Notre Dame security report. "The students were informed that they were in violation of University rules and were cleared of the area." 
A large gathering? I find it ridiculous that security would try to take the fun out of cel­ebrating Notre Dame football weekends by disbanding a group of spirited fans. 
What better way to cheer on the home team than to enjoy a few cheeseburgers, some hotdogs, and a couple of beers with a group of friends? Security has no business here. 
Fans who roadtripped to Ann Arbor for the Notre Dame -Michigan game can relate to this kind of over-reaction by law enforcement officials. 
A large group of fans from both Notre Dame and the University of Michigan had gathered in a street to show their spirit for their teams. Each side was chanting school cheers at the other. The overall spirit of the event was one of competition, however, not violence toward their opponents. 
Ann Arbor police moved in, donned in riot 
gear, and pushed the crowd into an inter­section, thereby blocking four roads instead of one. 
When the crowd would not disperse, they proceeded to fire tear gas into the group of students and fans. The students fled rubbing their eyes and coughing heavily. 
This over-reaction by the police is empha­sized when one considers that there was virtually no violence during the event. It seems that the Ann Arbor authorities could have dealt with the fans in a more peaceful manner, rather than treating them as they would a reckless, angry mob of rebels tossing rocks. 
It is clear that these authorities are misunderstanding the intent of these large groups of people chanting for their teams. Apparently, law enforcement officials assume that these tailgaters or off-the-cuff pep rallies are conducive to fighting and violence. This, however, is a faulty conclusion. 
It is unreasonable for police to break up aU large groups to secure the safety of the few individuals who might be injured should a situation get out of hand. Nor is breaking up a few tailgaters is a good place to start enforcing underage drinking. 
Security and police are, in effect, attempting taking the fun out of football weekends. 
The most memorable event of a football Saturday should be tailgating, the play on the field, and cheering on the Irish, not run-ins with law-enforcement officials. 
The views expressed in the Jniside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Accent Production Anna Marie Tabor Lisa Bourdon Paige Smoron Michelle Wood Mike Lorenzo 
News Lab Tech Peter Loftus Gatr Swartz Megan Junius 
VIewpoint Graphics Rich Riley Brendan Regan Jessica Trobaugh 
Sports Rjch Szatx> 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday 
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Bikinis stolen from beautv pagent 
•GEORGETOWN, Guyana -Bandits almost thwarted a national beauty contest when they stole the competitors' bikinis a few hours before the show was to go on, police said Sunday. Guyana is a nation of about 1 million people in northeastern South America. The robbers picked the locks on a car containing 19 bathing suits Saturday evening, and organizers of the Miss Guyana Pageant were sent scurrying around the city for replacement suits long after shopping centers had closed for the day. The thieves ignored radio and tP.Ievision ads offering rewards if the outfits were returned in time for showtime at 8:00 p.m., police said, but eventually new suits were purchased for the contestants. Thieves Lift Bikinis Hours Before Miss Guyana Contest. Tracey Deabreau, a Guyanese woman living in Toronto, was crowned Miss Guyana. 
NATIONAL 
Police fjre teargas to control crowd 
•ANN ARBOR, MICh.-Police in Ann Arbor fired tear gas to disperse a crowd of about 1,000 people early Saturday, about 14 hours before kickoff time in the Michigan-Notre Dame game. Six people were arrested and four officers were injured in the incident in which some party-goers blocked the streets and threw rocks. Several cars were reportedly damaged before the police launched the tear-gas canisters at the crowd who gathered in an area between the campus and downtown. "It was near a couple of popular bars, so either the bars were too crowded for them or they were to young to get in," said Sgt. Mark Hoornstra. "The police don't have a problem with people congregating and having a good time, but it defmitely got out of hand." 
OF INTEREST 
•comedians 
and actors needed. Auditions for comedy/improv!fheatre Troupe: Irish Accent will take place tonight in the basement of Walsh Hall at 6:30 p.m. Bring yourself and some creativity. If you have any ques­tions call Tim and Doug at 283-2266. 

•A 
tape of the Sept. 15 mass opening the University of Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial observance will be tele-


MARKET UPOATE 

Women's abortjoo clinic vandalized 
•AURORA, Ill. -Vandals broke into the clinic of a gynecologist targeted by weekly protests for performing midterm abortions, destroyed medical equipment and spray-painted anti-abortion messages on walls, police said. Dr. Aleksandr Jakubowski estimated damage at more than $100,000, but said Sunday he will continue performing abortions at his clinic in this Chicago suburb. The messages "baby killer" and "Thou shall not kill" were painted on walls sometime before the clinic reopened Saturday morning, police said. The doctor is one of few in the Chicago area who perform second­trimester abortions. "We do not condone violence. This actually hurts our cause because it reflects on us," said protester Means. "Now, I'm going to be embarrassed to be picketing." 
INDIANA 

Former civil rights leader dead at 66 
•EVANSVILLE, 
Ind. -The Rev. Charles King Jr., who began fighting for civil rights as an Indiana pastor, is dead at the age of 66. The former Evansville pastor died Saturday of cancer at his home in Atlanta, Ga. "He was an individual who was interested in human beings and their welfare regard of their race and their status in life," said Solomon Stevenson, former president of the Evansville NAACP. "The little people, the poor people. He had a concern for them and was interested in doing whatever he could to help them and inspire them." In his later years, King was considered a national expert on race relations and often gave sensitivity workshops. "That was extremely important to him, to portray why blacks were treated as second-class citizens, mainly because whites didn't understand them," said Jackie LaGrone, director of the Evansville Human Rights Commission. 

cast on Monday night, Sept. 16, at 9:30 p.m. and on Wednesday night, Sept. 18, at 8:30 pm on Heritage Cable­vision's Cable Channel 31. 

•Alzheimer's 
association Is looking for Notre Dame students to participate in a 10 km Walk-a-thon on Saturday morning, Sept. 29. Food, folks, and fun. Call Ron Severino at 283-2180 to register. 


ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1776: British forces occupied New York Cityduring the American Revolution. 

•In 
1935: the Nuremberg Laws deprived German Jews of their citizenship and made the swastika the official ~ymbol of Nazi Germany. 

•In 
1950: during the Korean conflict, United Nations forces landed at Inchon in the south and began their drive toward Seoul. 

•In 
1963: four children were killed when a bomb went off during Sunday services at a black Baptist church in Birmingham, Ala. 

•In 
1982: Iran's former foreign minister, Sadegh Ghotbzadeh, was executed after he was convicted of plotting against the government. 


Monday, September 16, 1991 The Ob!?erver page 3 
Jefferson's childhood home may be found 
SHADWELL, Va. (AP) -Ar­chaeologists think they found the site of Thomas Jefferson's childhood home, a discovery that could illuminate the up­bringing of the third U.S. president and author of the Declaration of Independence. 
The general area where the house once stood actually was discovered 50 years ago In this tiny town about four miles from Charlottesville. But haste and faulty archaeology led researchers to a spot about 100 feet from what is now thought to be the right one. 
The Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation hopes to positively identify the site In time for the 250th anniversary of Jefferson's birth, in 1993. 
Two years after the house was built, Jefferson was born on April 13, 1743, to Peter and Jane Randolph Jefferson on their 280-acre tract. Jefferson lived about 20 years In the house, historians believe. 
In adulthood he built Monti­cello about two miles away. 
"There's been some question as to the stature of Peter Jefferson and the origins of (Thomas) Jefferson himself," said William Kelso, director of archaeology for the foundation. 
"Was he born into the world with a silver spoon in his mouth or not? This (excavation) could help us find out," Kelso said. 
Club Column 

September 16, 1991 
1)AII club officers-All club officers are reminded to periodically check their club mailboxes located directly outside the Student Government office on the second floor of La Fortune. 
2) Management Club-The Management Club is sponsoring a volleyball and pizza social on Tuesday, Sept. 17 at the Stepan Courts from 5:30-?:00pm. All members are expected to attend. Everyone is reminded to bring $5 membership dues. 
3) Right to Life-The Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Right to Life Club is having a general meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 17 at 7 pm in the Montgomery Theater of LaFortune. 
4) Hispanic Interests-The Hispanic American Organization will be having a meeting on Monday, Sept. 16 at 7:30pm in Knott Hall. There will be a $2 charge per person. 
5) Spanish Club-The NO Spanish Club will being having a meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 17 at 8 pm in the ISO Lounge (second floor ol LaFortune). For more information call Donna Gramm at 283-2914. 
6) Ballroom Dance-The ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will meet in Theodore's on Thursday, Sept. 19 from 8:00-9:30 pm. ?)Arnold Air Society-A POW/MIA Memorial mass at Sacred Heart Crypt will be held on Monday, Sept. 16 at7 pm. POW/MIA Bracelet sale will be held in the Dining Halls during dinner from Sept. 17-19. 
8) Flying Club-The Flying Club's first informational meeting is this Wednesday at7pm in 214 Cushing. For more information call Jennifer Martin at 283-2798. 





Shuttle deploys research satellite 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Discovery astronauts dis­patched an observatory satellite Sunday to examine the effects of pollution on Earth's withering ozone layer, but ground controllers ran into trouble communicating with the spacecraft. 
The glittering, copper-colored satellite, its solar panel jutting to one side, drifted off into orbit shortly after midnight. 
Mark Brown unleashed the observatory from the end of the shuttle's mechanical arm as the ship flew over the Atlantic Ocean toward West Africa on its 34th spin around the world since liftoff Friday. 
"It was a spectacular show," shuttle commander John Creighton said. 
Those on Earth were just as impressed. "Welcome to the era of 
NASA's Mission to Planet Earth," said program manager Mike Luther. 
The observatory was released a little later than planned, be­cause controllers had trouble getting a signal to pass between the craft's main antenna and a second satellite through which . data is transmitted to Earth. The problems continued after the release. Signals were gained, and lost, three times within two hours. 
Project deputy manager John Donley said the interruptions were caused by a procedural probhim on the ground that was corrected. 
But then another problem was discovered later Sunday morning -one of two satellite transponders used to receive data from Earth failed. 
Controllers at NASA's God­
dard Space Flight Center In Greenbelt, Md., could not send commands on that transponder via a network of communica­tions satellltes 22,300 miles high. 
Instead, they used the backup transponder, which worked fine, Donley said. 
"We have a redundant sys­tem, so we're still fully func­tional," Donley said. 
Donley said engineers don't know why the first receiver failed. It would matter only if the backup system developed problems during the mission's expected lifetime of 1 1/2 to three years, he said. 
ControllerS' on Sunday suc­cessfully switched on and com­pleted an Initial check-out of several satellite instruments as part of an examination of its operating systems. 

Overcrowding was factor in jail fire death 
FORSYTH, Mo. (AP) -The victims of a fire at the Taney County Jail included a woman drunken driving suspect who was moved from another jail that was too crowded and a former police chief held on a charge of failure to pay child support. 
Donna Redhan and Charles Lee Nagel were among four in­mates killed before dawn £at­urday when a generator fire filled the one-story, concrete jail with thick black smoke. The fire cut power to the jail, trapping all 26 inmates in their cells until firefighters could free them. 
''I'm still numb. I don't know how I'm going to tell my kids," said Nagel's ex-wife, Margaret Nagel. Nagel, who had been police chief in Rockaway Beach, had four children. 
Thirteen inmates remained hospitalized Sunday in Branson and Springfield hospitals, where they were being treated 

-


= BIBLE REVIVAL ­

lJRcoming Events 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* *C. B. S. 
Inter Faith Bible Study Tuesday, September 17, 1991 and every Tuesday 
Meetings: 7:00 P.M. one hour sessions (bring your own Bible) zn the Conference Room of Campus Ministry Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, C.S.C. 

.. 
(?MPUS 

MNISW 
For additional information call: 239-6633 or 239-5955 
.. 

All are invited to attend 
for smoke inhalation, hospital officials said. They were all in satisfactory condition. 
Crews were working Sunday to clean up smoke damage in the jail. 
Nine inmates from Taney County were being held in the Branson jail. John Strahan, the presiding commissioner of Taney County, said it would be Monday before officials get any idea on when the jail may be ready for occupancy again. 
The others who died early Saturday were a Michael Has­son, 23, a former medical tech­nician and volunteer firelighter who was accused of forgery and theft of fire department equipment; and Robert Wilder, charged with second-degree murder in a September 1990 death. 
The fire began at 3:45 a.m. when an extension cord con­nected to a battery charger on the auxiliary generator short-. 
circuited, said Bill Zieres, re­gional chief fire marshal inves­tigator. The extension cord ran inside the length of the jail. 
The fire spread from the gen­erator to the· composite roof of the jail, burning it and sending a thick, black smoke into the jail. 
Without electricity, the cell doors had to be manually opened, authorities said. 
Officers of the Missouri State Highway Patrol had arrested . Redhan, 58, of Ridgedale, about 
5:15 p.m. Friday in Stone County. She was booked for suspicion of driving while intox­icated, said Sheriff Lonnie Mease. 
But the tiny Stone County jail was full -it holds only 10 prisoners -so about an hour later, she was locked in a Taney County jail cell where she would soon die. The other three victims were from Taney County. 






111111 ~~~o~~R?l:: 
lecture 
TUESDAY.SEPTEMBER17 
PATRICK D. GAFFNEY. C.S.C. liPS FIKllllty Fellow, APociMe Prof-, AntlvopoloiJy Depwtrnent 
"A HOUSE DIVIDED: THE ARAB WORLD IN THE AFTERMATH OF THE KUWAIT CRISIS" 
4:00p.m. -Ha.burgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Afternoon Seminar 
THURSDAY,SEPTEMBER19 
JOHN A. WOOD, liPS VIsiting Faculty Fellow; Associate Professor of Religion, Baylor University 
"WAR IN THE OLD TESTAMENT: 
A COMPLEXITY OF TRADITIONS" 
12:00 noon -Small Dining Room Greenfield• Cafe -Hesburgh Center 
"'-•• note thet tt..e ia • no ..tinglno drindng poicy lor the coni_,.,. rooma ...d eudilorium of the 
Heobtwgh c-.. For.......,.. in the Smel Dining 
Room yoo mey bring y... lunclh or .....,._. ..,. lit Gre.lfieldo C.le. 
INSTITUTE FOR 
INTERNATIONAL 


page 4 The Observer Monday, September 16, 1991 
Croatia 
continued from page 1 
response to the cut-otT of food, electricity and water. 
He said "thousands of tons of various types of weapons" were seized, including anti-tank weapons. 
In a statement issued in Bel­grade, the federal army said Bebic was lying. "Individual cases of desertion are being transformed into hundreds," it said. 
Neither claim could be inde­pendently verified. 
Croatia said it was impatient with peace efforts by the Euro­pean Community and might drop out of a Yugoslav confer­ence that began last week if the fighting worsens. 
Foreign Minister Zvonimir Separovic told reporters called the talks were "conterproductive" and irrele­vant "compared to the war raging in Croatia." 
In the weekend fighting, Yu­goslav jets, tanks and rockets hammered Croatian strongholds in response to the republic's attempt to force the troops to remain inside bar­racks. 
The Tanjug news agency said a federal armored column broke through barricades to a besieged federal garrison in Vukovar, a town on the Danube River. Croatian media reported two dead and seven wounded in that fighting. 
Croatian Television said fed­eral warplanes attacked Ploce, an Adriatic port, killing three Croatian militiamen, and fed­eral gunboats in the Ploce har­bor opened frre at a maritime warehouse. Bebic claimed two of the boats were sunk. 
A crewman for Croatian TV, Nlkola Stojanac, was reported killed by machine-gun frre from a federal warplane in Gospic, in south-central Croatia. 
The Croatian Defense Min­istry reported minor damage from air raids on small airfields in Senj, on the Adriatic coast, at Varazdin, northeast of Zagreb and on the Adriatic island of Hvar. 
Serb guerrillas were reported to have taken Hrvatska Dubica, 55 miles southeast of Zagreb, and Topusko, about 30 miles south of the Croatian capital. 
Tanjug said Sunday night that three Serb guerrillas died and six were wounded in fighting at Okucanl that has blocked the highway between Zagreb and 
• Belgrade, the federal and Serbian capital. Five Croatian fighters were reported killed and 15 injured. 
Fighting and dying also were reported around Borovo Selo in the eastern Croatian region of Slavonia. 


Peace 

continued from page 1 
ratifying two existing treaties, CFE and STARK. Completing these treaties will provide "a framework to move relatively quickly with additional understanding in the future," Keeny explained. 
He went on to dis~uss diffi­culties that arise from the build-up of nuclear weapons as well as possible steps to allevi­ate these problems within the international community. 
Concluding with a call to ac­tion, Keeny said, "we are truly on the threshold of a period when great things can be ac­complished, but ... it is going to be up to all of us to help ensure that this promise comes to be." 
Forsberg also referred to the recent changes in the state of the world as she began her dis­cussion on the future world se­curity order. 
It is this "watershed in human history" that has lead to the debate over "what it might like to be in a world where all countries are democratic," said Forsberg. 

Harkin 

continued from page 1 
can't win," Harkin said. "I'm here to tell you that George Herbert Walker Bush has feet of clay and I intend to take a hammer to them." 
Harkin rolled up his shirt sleeves and declared his candi­dacy in front of a flag-draped red barn as he addressed some 2,000 cheering supporters at his annual steak fry. The setting was amid the rolling hills of southern Iowa, about 20 miles from his tiny hometown of Cumming, population 151. 
Opposing the existing idea that "the spread of democracy will lead to more violence rather than less," Forsberg provided a detailed sketch of her idea of democracy. 
She explained, while majority rule is necessary to democracy, it is not the most vital aspect. Civil liberties which make it possible for the oppressed to demonstrate are considerably more important, according to Forsberg. 
As a means of offering con­crete steps to forge a peaceful international society, she de­scribed the possibility of inter­national regulatory regimes and non-intervention regimes which could spread democracy and promote peace without im­posing one country's wants over another. 
Finally, Forsberg outlined general guidelines for using force and for promoting peace and democracy including: "armed force used only as a re­sult of international decision ... cutback to minimum deterrent weapons," and an effort by the economic community to rely on international forum. 
Lester Brown brought the discussion to a close by pre-
Torn Harkin 

He planned to·repeat the an­nouncement in New Hampshire on Monday. 
The crowd chanted "Harkin, Harkin, Harkin" as he offered a liberal's sharp call for a return senting the link between peace and the environment. 
As part of his role in World­watch, Brown and his co-work­ers publish State of the World Reports, which Brown describes as "angled physicals of the world." 
For the most part, the reports have not contained positive information. "We would like to write a State of the World Report that is upbeat," said Brown. "But we have not been able to do it so far." 
Brown cited a dangerously rapid rising population and a wasting of energy as the main reasons for the planet's poor condition and called for a "environmental revolution." 
He gave practical advice for alleviating the situation, includ­ing: a shift to solar-thermal technology, taxation of envi­ronmentally destructive activity, and a restructuring of transportation systems to re­lieve dependance on automo­biles, and, on a more personal level, a rise in the use of com­pact florescent light bulbs. 
Conducting a successful envi­ronmental revolution will take a "cooperative international ef­fort," Brown said. "The only 
to traditional Democratic values, the "new vision" he said was spelled out by Democrats ranging from Franklin Roo­sevelt to Harry Truman and John Kennedy. 
"For the last four years, the hardworking men and women, the farmers, the small business owners, the people who pull the load and pay the taxes in this country have been getting hit below the belt," said Harkin. "I'm running for president be­cause I believe the American people are hungry for a new vi­sion of America." 
Harkin, 51, is in his second Senate term and has emerged 
For Senior Nursing StudL•nts 

way we can do it is if we all work together." 
This cooperation includes that of poor and developing countries whose top priority may not be the environment, according to Brown. "The fu­ture depends on their coopera­tion. The time has come to re­define security." 
"We are facing a fundamental choice between mobilizing forces and reversing the desinegration of the planet ... It's part of a package ... You can't separate peace from ecol­ogy ... This is our real challenge as we move into the 90s," Brown concluded. 
The panel discussion was sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies as part a symposium to dedicate the Hesburgh Center for International Studies and to kick otT the University's Sesqui­centennial. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame's president emeri­tus and John Gilligan, former director of the Kroc Institute, both made a point to honor Joan Kroc for her generosity and all of those who made the Kroc Institute possible. 
as one of its leading liberals and most persistent Bush critics. 
With his announcement, Harkin becomes the third prominent Democrat to enter the race formally, joining Vir­ginia Gov. L. Douglas Wilder and former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas. 
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton and Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey are likely contenders. Former California Gov. Jerry Brown also plans to run, Oklahoma Rep. Dave McCurdy is mulling the race and two-time presiden­tial contender Jesse Jackson is considered unlikely to run this time. 

Watch Out World 

~~IB3_-cecr;lk.yo § ~ 1l 
Happy belated 21st birthday, Mom, Dad, Tim, MaryS Jason too 
A seminar to help you prepare for persmzal and professional decisions . 
November 1 & 2, 1991 Mayo Medical Cnzter • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• Laughter: A Gift of Your Being to Light Up Dark Places • Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse • Enhancing Your Personal and Professional Image 
BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• Financial Planning • Critical Care Nurse Internship Program • Preparing for Your Job Search • Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't • State Boards: Are You Ready? • Healthcare in a Changing Environment • New Kid on the Block 
$10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 22, 1991 
Calll-800-545-0357 outside Rochester, or (507) 286-8579 for registration information and brochure.
ctYJ Nursing Ho•izons is sponsmed by
Mayo Center for Nursing Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
Mtii/O I oulflltrfwn ,.. n11 trffmualn'C' at 111111 tmd t'qual ''I'JillrtJ/111111 ,•,luurtor 111111 i'IIIJ''''II''' A SmokcFm fllo;fttutwu 

-----------~------------------------------------------------------------·------·-----------------------­

SESQUICENTENNIAL YEAR OPENING MASS 
Monday, September 16, 1991 

One ~ of the six University of Notre Dame choir ensembles joins in singing the opening hymn, Marche Triomphale Te Deum. The talent from all of the choirs was joined together to form harmonious echoes throughout the JACC. 
' 
Father Edward Malloy, ...r~ISKliAm opening mass yesterday. Residents of Pasquerilla East enjoy Father Malloy's company. Due to the picnic in celebration for the opening of the Sesquicentennial Year, both North and South dining halls were closed Sunday evening in efforts for students to become more directly involved with the celebration. 
SIGN-UPS 

TODAY AND TOMORROW! 
Register by Submitting Your Reswne to the Placement Center 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS October 31st and November 1st 
INFORMATION SESSION Wednesday, October 30th 7:00p.m. Alumni Room Morris Inn 
A Unique Consulting Firm 


Hewitt Associates 
is visiting the University ofNotre Dame 
Hewitt Associates is an international firm of consultants and actuaries specializing in the destgn. financing, communication, and administration of employee benefit ana compensation programs. We are included in the publications The 100 Best Comganies to Work for in America and The Best Companies for Women. 
We· arc interested in students with the following majors: 
Accounting Computer Applications Economics Finance Management 
with MIS Concentration Mathematics Mathematics 
with Computer Concentration 
We look for people who are adaptable, creative, analytical, and intelligent; people who work well together. Our challenge is to identify and develop those people who can respond to the opportunities of today and tomorrow. 

Hewitt Associates 
Llncoliishlre. IL • Santa Ana, CA • Walnut Creek, CA Rowayton, CT • Boston, MA • Bedminster, NJ Allanta GA • Las Collnas, TX • The Woodlands, TX 
An equal opportunity employer m{f 
page 5 

Photos by Marguerite Schropp 

Father Edward Malloy, presiding celebrant and homilist the Sesqui­centennial Year opening mass, uses the chalice which originally be­longed to Father Edward Sorin. Father Sorin founded the University of · Notre Dame du Lac 150 years ago. 
a sophomore, and Joseph Wilson, a junior, preside the intercessions to the congregation. The petitions during yesterday's mass at the JACC centered around the continuance of the Notre Dame family. 
ELED MAJORS MEETING 



MANDATORY 
FOR ALL CURRENT 8 NEW STUDENTS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
TOESDAY,SEPTEMBER 17 
6:30 -8:00 PM SMC SCIENCE BLDG ROOM 105 SAINT MARY'S 
page 6 The Observer Monday, September 16, 1991 
Swedes hand big setback to Social Democrats in elections 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP} ­The Social Democrats, founders of Sweden's welfare state, suffered their worst defeat in nearly 60 years Sunday as voters turned to non-socialist parties offering tax cuts, more choice and less bureaucracy. 
Inflation and growing con­cerns about government effi­ciency shifted the prosperous Swedes' support away from the party that has governed for 53 of the past 59 years, shaping a system providing cradle-to­grave services in exchange for some of the highest taxes in the 
·world. 
Prime Minister Ingvar Carls­son acknowledged that eco­nomic problems and negative public reaction to a tax reform plan caused the defeat, but said conservative preying on eco­nomic dissatisfaction had "paid off while taking responsibility hasn't, and that makes me worried." 
Based on projections from 
398 of 720 key districts, 
Swedish Television reported that the four-party liberal-to­conservative bloc would win 170 seats in the 349-member Riksdag, or parliament, five short of a majority. 
The Social Democrats and Left Party won 155 seats, a loss of 22 seats, and the Greens were knocked out altogether, winning less than 4 percent of the vote. 
The projections also showed that the Christian Democrats, with 7.6 percent of the vote, and New Democracy, a new right-wing party that took 6.6 percent, would enter parlia­ment for the first time. 
It was the Social Democrats' worst election since they came. to power, even worse than the 1976-82 period, during which three non-socialist coalitions and governments ruled. 
Analysts predicted the new government would be difficult to assemble. 
Carl Bildt, the 42-year-old 
conservative leader, said he would replace Carlsson and head a coalition made up of his Moderate Party and the Center, Liberal and Christian Demo­cratic parties. The four parties together took 45.7 percent of the vote. 
But the Center and Liberal parties, both of which lost seats in the election, said they would not participate in any government with New Democ­racy, which took a 24 pivotal seats. 
New Democracy, created only in February, ran on a promise to "make Sweden more fun" by slashing taxes and prices. But its' leaders comments about cutting foreign aid to Africa and deporting refugees have brought accusations of racism. 
Liberal leader Bengt Wester­berg stormed out of a live post­election television interview Sunday night when New Democracy leader Ian Wacht­meister walked on camera. 
U.N. team returns after Iraq blocks helicopter flights 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP} -A United Nations missile inspec­tion team canceled its mission Sunday after Iraq defied Secu­rity Council warnings and re­fused to allow the team to use 
U.N. helicopters. 
The Iraqi government said the use of foreign aircraft over its territory violated its sovereignty. 
Instead, Iraq offered its mili­tary's Soviet-made MiG-17 heli­copters and Iraqi pilots, but 
U.N. 
inspectors say the heli­copters are unsafe and the pi­lots uncooperative. 

Iraq initially did not object to 

U.N. 
helicopters, but never pro­vided final authorization, said Tim Brock, an American expert who was to lead the inspection team. 


The Security Council had 
warned Baghdad on Friday to Some sites were used to fire allow the inspectors to use their Scud missiles in die war, mainly own helicopters or risk further against Saudi Arabia and Israel. 
sanctions. 

The 17-member team planned to examine long-range missile sites in western Iraq as part of the plan to eliminate Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, as ordered under the U.N. resolutions ending the Persian Gulf War. 
Indiana guardsman is guilty of desertion 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP} -A mil­itary judge convicted a National Guard captain of desertion on Sunday and ordered him dis­missed from the service. 
Capt. Daniel Nightingale, 40, of North Manchester, had faced a possible 200-day jail term and a $200 fine for refusing to report for duty after his resig­nation was rejected days before the Gulf War began. 
Nightingale, a decorated combat veteran who served in Vietnam, was convicted at a two-day court martial. 
His lawyer, Capt. David Roellgen, said the conviction and sentence would be appealed to Gov. Evan Bayh. 
''I'd like an honorable dis­charge," Nightingale said after Lt. Col. Albert Velasquez im­posed the sentence. 
His defense presented one witness, Capt. Marjorie Court­
-ney, who said a Guard captain assigned to another battalion had been permitted to resign his commission in January. 
Nightingale, who owns a computer repair business, said he had been singled out for se­lective prosecution because he opposed U.S. military action in the Middle East. 
The prosecutor, Maj. George Thompson, said the case was not political and argued Nightingale abandoned his du­ties as a company commander. 
Velasquez said the prosecu­tion case was "most com­pelling." 
Nightingale addressed the court for nearly 20 minutes be­fore the sentencing, detailing a tortuous psychological journey he took from combat infantry­man, to scorned Vietnam vet­eran, to a man who joined the Indiana Guard because he still craved the military life. 
"The military was my fiX, and also my way of running," hesaid. 

Specter: Thomas will attract blacks to GOP 
WASHINGTON (AP} -A key Republican senator said Sunday that Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas will bring "real diversity" to the nation's top court and broaden the GOP's appeal to black voters. 
Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., who grilled Thomas last week about his hostility toward af­firmative action programs, said the black jurist "may serve as a role model to bring many African-Americans to the Republican cause." 
"There's a real concern among the Democrats and among the traditional leaders in the African-American com­munity that Judge Thomas ... may bring people to a different way of thinking," Specter said on CBS-TV's "Face the Nation." 
Another Judiciary Committee member, Sen. Howell Heflin, D-Ala., said that after a week of hearings, the lawmakers still do not "know what the real Thomas will do" on the high court. 
But Heflin said Thomas would win Senate confirmation if the vote were held today. 
Most "moderate conservative Democrats ... would vote for him unless he really stubs his toe," said Heflin, who said his own mind was not made up. 
Specter said "race played an enormous factor" in President Bush's choice of Thomas to succeed the retiring Justice Thurgood Marshall, and right­fully so. 
With Thomas's up-from­poverty background, he is "a man who has a very, very dif­ferent view of the world, a real diversity, which that court badly, badly needs," said Specter. 
Thomas returns to the committee Monday for a second week of hearings, with m~ny liberal groups lined up to oppose his nomination. 
White House National Secu­rity Adviser Brent Scowcroft called the refusal a serious vio­lation of the U.N. resolutions. He would not comment directly when asked if there was a pos­sibility President Bush would send U.S. forces back into Iraq. 
"We're looking at (the refusal} very seriously," he said on· ABC television. ·Germany had donated three helicopters for the mission, but Brock said the aircraft were held up in Turkey. 
Other U.N. teams checking Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and long­range missiles operated around the capital Baghdad and used automobiles. 
Attention Photographers 
There will be an organizational for all Observer photographers on Tuesday Sept. 17th at 7:30pm in the Sorin Room, first floor of LaFortune. Any new photographers interested in working for the Observer are encouraged to attend. For more information contact Andrew 
.. McCloskey at 239-7471
_____________________. 


~~tt.lio6 
THEALL NEW 
POWERHOUSE GYM

O~tl) 
)ER()BICS CENTER NOW 
OFFERING SUPER SPECIAL








fl4' M 'l!J
GYM. STUDENT RATES 
~lJWJ©JbWQ)lE: 
• 13000 lbs OF~ ~@l}{fif 
•INDIVIDUAL 
EXERCISE PROGRAMS-BUILD/REDUCE 

•ICARIAN 
EXERCISE EQWPMENT 

• 
iEROBICS-35 CLASSES PER WEEK INCLUDING REEBOK STEP iEROBICS CAM STAR CIRCWT TRAINING EQUIP 

• 
LOCKER, SHOWER, DRESSING ROOMS 

• 
TANNING (ADDITIONAL) 

• 
SPORTSWEAR CADDMONAL) 


~lN!©W ~~ft300@ 
M-F 6:00AM -10:00 PM 
.. SAT 8:00AM-6:00PM SUN •?·on PM -4:00 PM
~WERHOUSEGYM 

130 WEST EDISON ROAD • MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 




Business 
Monday, September 16, 1991 page 7 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The Kroger Co. says calculators it's attaching to carts will help shoppers stay within their gro­cery budgets and offer busi­nesses another way to advertise products. 
Kroger on Wednesday began attaching 3-by 7 .5-inch calcu­lators to about 4,200 carts in the Cincinnati, Dayton and Springfield areas. The left side of each solar-powered calcula­tor has a recessed, plastic-cov­ered panel to hold glossy adver­tisements. 
"It's not a complicated idea, but it's a good idea just the same," said Sam Gingrich, manager of communications for Kroger's southwest Ohio marketing area. "We're simply trying to choose the best tech­nology from a customer's standpoint and from our standpoint." 
Tom Jackson, executive direc­tor of the Ohio Grocers Associ­ation, said Kroger is the first supermarket chain to use the shopping cart calculators in Ohio. But he said he expects more stores to install them if they are popular. 
L.A~ schools lay off teachers in an attempt to close budget gap 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -In a throwback to the one-room schoolhouse, some students in the nation's second largest school district are teaching each other since austerity eliminated more than 2,000 teachers, greatly enlarging classes. 
Children returned to their classrooms less than a month ago and the Los Angeles Unified School District is laying off teachers, juggling students and trimming paychecks to close a $274 million budget gap. 
The way we are surviving is the way the old one-room schoolhouse used to work, that is, kids are going to do team learning," said Paul Greenwalt, who teaches Spanish-speaking fourth-graders at Wilbur Elementary School. 
This year, Greenwalt's class will absorb some fifth-graders whose teachers' jobs were eliminated. The size of the class will jump from the 27 students last year to 30 or 34 this year, he said. 
Across the sprawling district serving 650,000 pupils, the average class size is expected to increase by three students since 2,14 5 teachers were cut from last year's workforce of about 32,000 teachers. Some high school classes will have more than 40 students. 
Greenwalt plans to have fast learners work with their slower counterparts. 
"When I was in school it was, 'do your own work.' Now you work together, you learn from each other," he said. "'J:hat frees me up to take care of a lot of people who really need it." 
The cutbacks, the worst in more than a decade, were announced earlier this month when the school board adopted a $3.9 billion spending plan, down from $4 billion last year. But it appears the district's travails are far from over. 
The new budget is based on teachers accepting a $122 million cut in pay and benefits, a situation prompting talk of a strike. The district was crippled by a nearly two-week walkout in spring 1989. 
"Teachers are not in this profession to get rich. They don't expect a lot, but they do expect a little consideration," said Helen Bernstein, president of United Teachers of Los Angeles. A strike is "a real possibility," she said. 
John Booker, the district's chief financial officer, said 
administrators were confident of averting a strike. 
"We continue to believe that we are going to be able to negotiate those reductions," he said. 
The state provides about 75 percent of the district's money and has sharply cut its appropriation this year. Legislation to give an additional $88 million sits unsigned on Gov. Pete Wilson's desk. His preoccupation with a $14 billion state deficit could doom the district's plea for help. 
The predicament for Los Angeles schools is a familiar one around the country, wherever the national recession has thrown state and local governments into the red. 
Classes of 40 students are now common in Colorado's elementary schools. The District of Columbia is offering early retirement to 1,300 teachers. Many Florida school districts have imposed a hiring freeze. 
So Los Angeles officials "have got a lot of company in pain and suffering," Allan Odden, a professor of educational policy at the University of Southern California. 



The Colle-ge of Business Administration In Celebration of The University's Sesquientennial and the 70th Anniversary of the College 
1842-1992 
Un1vers1ty of Notre Dome 

Invites You to Attend 

A Convocation of Our Graduates 
Seventy Years of Business Education at Notre Dame 1921 -1991 
Thursday, September 19, 1991, Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art, University of Notre Dame 
1:30 p.m.-3:45p.m.: Convocation ofGraduates 
Moderator: Dr. John R. Malone Professor Emeritus of Marketing Mr. Edmond R. Haggar Mr. James L. Hesburgh Honorary Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Haggar Apparel Company J.L. Hesburgh International, Inc. 
Dr. Joseph A. Pichler Mr. William Lehr, Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and Secretary, The Kroger Company Hershey Foods Corporation. 
Mr. James M. Corgel Director of Process Industries, IBM Corporation 
4:00p.m.-5:00p.m.: 
"The 90's: Main Street Emerges-Wall Street Recedes" 
Moderator;
Mr. Philip J. Purcell, III 

Dr. Frank Reilly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bernard J. Hank Professor of Business Dean Witter Financial Services Group Inc. Administration 

A Business Advisory Council Colloquium on "The Challenge of Education" 
Friday, September 20, 1991, Center for Continuing Education, Main Auditorium, University of Notre Dame 
8:30a.m. -9:40a.m.: The Role ofBusiness Schools Dean Tom Keller, Duke University, Fuqua School ofBusiness Dean jack Keane, University ofNotre Dame, College of 
Business Administration 
10:00 a.m. -11:45 a.m.: The Role ofthe Private Sector A panel ofprominent business leaders, presidents, and Chief Executive Officers. 
1:30 p.m. -2:45p.m.': The Role ofthe Public Sector Senator Bill Bradley (D., NJ) "America's Challenge in the Post-Communist World." 
8.0o/o 
7.5 7.0 
6.5 
6.0 5.5 5.0 
Source: Bani< Rate Monitor 
INTEREST RATES 
Declining interest 
rates have been bad for savers but good for those who need loans. 
6-Month CD Yield 

SONDJFMAMJJAS 
1990 1991 
20% 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 
9 
8 
7 




Kroger carts get calculators 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, September 16, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Miracle at Medjugorje should not be ridiculed 
Dear Editor: Church has taught since its dancing in Medjugorje the pil­not listening to the true Christ's representative here on 
Allow me to begin by saying founding? Pray for others, as grims would still believe in the message. earth. Part of that that I respectfully well as yourself, repent when apparitions. Mary's message is much like responsibility entails the acknowledge the seniority of you have committed an The peoples' faith is not Jesus's message nearly two teaching of and leading of the Father Robert Griffin in so far offense against God, and per­based upon the dancing sun, thousand years ago,"Repent, flock to God by establishing as he is a senior priest and, form acts of penance. for many who believe do not for the Kingdom of God is at and nurturing the Catholic most likely knows more about If this is truly the woman's even see the sun dance. hand." Mary's message is not faith. the history and official dogma message, then how can the Rather, Father, their belief in one of gloom and doom, for Yet, the good Father clearly of the Catholic Church than I. good Father possibly claim the apparitions is based on that will happen anyway be­disassociates himself with the 
However, after reading that this is a "sideshow" which faith, the faith that our God cause the entire worl.d does task of furnishing the faith to Father Griffin's article about would derail his faith? Is it not loves us so much that He not believe in God and acts a student, as he so clearly tells the hilarious thoughts that the Catholic Church's teaching would send His mother to help wrongly against his fellow us. But you see, Father Griflin, Medjugorje produces to always stay close to Jesus, us come back to Him. If the man. you do have the power and the whenever a God-fearing and if you stray, repent and sun did not dance, the people obligation to furnish the faith Christian wishes to speak with re~urn to Him? I agree, Father. would still believe. Therefore, good Father, her to young and old Catholic be­him about the subject, I felt The woman's message is A third argument that the message is not one of doom lievers That is why you were compelled to write. purely heretical good Father makes is that and gloom. Rather, she is so incorrect in your final para­
There are several points The good Father makes an­although Medjugorje is a nice telling us what everyone, graph when you said that you which Father Griffin makes other point that the fact that place, it is no better than including the Catholic Church, had not written your article as about Medjugorje's "appearing the sun dances in Medjugorje Disneyland, and worse than has always believed and uan attack on the faith and woman" which make me won­does not any more prove that Jimmy Swagart's summer preached. Namely, that there good will of young Catholics." der if the good Father is the Mother of God is camp. This is perhaps the is coming a time when every But don't you see, Father? speaking about the same town appearing there than do good Father's worst and most man and every nation will be Your article did just that. In in Yugoslavia about which I "mysterious circles left in a empty-headed attack against accountable before God. attempting to ~save the have read. field prove that starships have Medjugorje. It is obvious from the good students from feeling guilt for 
First, the good Father refers been living from outer space." If the good Father would Father's third to last para­not believing in Medjugorje," to the apparitions that are ap­I do agree with you, Father. read the articles about graph that he does not believe you have viciously attacked pearing in Medjugorje permit The fact that the sun dances in Medjugorje, he would see that in the apparitions of Fatima. and mocked what so many me the benefit of the doubt by the sky does not mean that those who travel there ex­He jibes at them and makes Christians, both young and believing that the apparitions Mary is appearing in a small perience a great amount of them seem ridiculous. It old, Catholic and non-Catholic, are indeed occurring (as a vintage town. However, if you peace and an interaction with should be restated to the good have come to believe. ~sideshow")-which he feels, if would listen to what pilgrims other Christians who have a Father that these apparitions I did not write this article to he believed in them, would say about what is happening tremendous faith in God. were authenticated by the condemn Father Griffin or be­force him to do away with his there rather than "trying to And when these people Catholic Church and, although little him. If he does not Catholic faith. resist the temptation to slap leave, they claim that their he is not obligated to believe believe in the apparitions at 
It seems obvious that the your knee or giggle"(for as faith has been magnified and in them just because he is a Medjugorje, then that is his good Father has not carefully Lou Holtz said," I never that they have experienced a Catholic, as a priest who is a privilege. However, when he read what the visionaries say learned anything by talking"), greater love of God. That, symbol of the Church, he holds up and viciously 
the "appearing woman's" you would learn that people good Father, is somewhat should not openly criticize the ridicules what so many 
message is. Her message is do not believe in the ap­better than what occurs at beliefs of the Church nor faithful and God-fearing not to turn away from Jesus paritions because the sun Disneyland, or don't you should he mock those who do Christians, both Catholic and and follow her. Quite the dances. agree? believe in things that the non-Catholic, believe, then contrary! The woman's mes­Rather, they believe that A final incorrect argument Church has authenticated. that is when I must speak out sage is to turn back to Jesus. Mary is appearing there. To that the good Father makes is Father Griffin also has against such ignorance and She asks us to fast, pray, and them, the dancing sun is that "Mary comes into our seemed to lose sight of his mockery. 
offer penance to God for the merely a reinforcement of the world(as if Mary is constantly duty as priest, and again I say 1 atonement of sins throughout fact that the Mother of God is separated from this world) as this with the utmost respect Philip Mohr the world. appearing there. I am sure a prophet of gloom and and as constructive criticism. Off-campus 
Is this not what the Catholic that if the sun were not doom." Again, Father, you are His job as a priest is to be Sept. 8,1991 
DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
NO WAY, MAN. rrs TOO /.lfftFOR US. Ai-l-I 60T 70taJK f(R(//JI<[) 70IS HlmN'7HI5 atJE!G, SP!fNPIN' 
MYNI6HT5 IA/IlliA toM3-5TRING 
OFUOMtiN IAJHO 
twN'T MeA5UR& UP7DH/5R ... 
\ 

.ACTl.I/Jtl.Y, 7HAT50UN/7.3 PRI577Y6iw. 
I 
'Who is that woman up there?' 
A tourist visiting on I.U. weekend pointing at the Dome 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,JN 46556 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ..•....•....•..•. .Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .•..•••. Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager .......••... Jay Colucci Accent Editor ................... .John O'Brien Systems Manager .•........••.... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ...••••.... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller•.......•••.••••••••.Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
' 
"%. 
~ 
~ 
~ 
"' 
<:;;/
~ 
.. ~ 
\ 
' 
~~ 
~i 

-~-------~ 

Accent 
page 9 Monday, September 16, 1991 



One singular sensation 
Moreau Center for the Arts unifies Saint Mary's cultural arts 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
The Certs advertisement is wrong. 
One is better than two. 
At least such is the case with the Moreau Hall and O'Laughlin Auditorium. The two formerly separately recognized houses for performing and vis·ual arts are now united under the name "Moreau Center for the Arl<;." 
The concept was the brainchil-d of Dennis Andres, director of conference and event services at Saint Mary's, who has long been aware of the need for a eollective identity for Saint Mary's cultural event~. 

this year. 
Having a singular name for the cultural events gives a "better identity with the community (South Bend)" for both their performances and the ones Andres brings. 
Andres attended the Midwest Arts Conference in Dallas this weekend to absorb a "showcase of artists that are unknown to most but are up-and-coming stars." 
He spent four days meeting many of the 500 agents that had booths representing 100,000 artists in the areas of music, dance, theater, and art. 
Yesterday Andres returned home with 24 COs, 24 tapes, and five videotapes to 
"I got tired of trying to advertise in --,----...-:..--. consider for next year's shows. different plaees," Andres said. "Saint With 98 possible events to bring to Mary's has an arts-oriented identity, Saint Mary's, including the musicals Notre Dame is sports-oriented." "Grease," "Bye-Bye Birdie," Grand 
Even though Moreau and O'Laughlin Hotel, the Indianapolis Ballet, and Billy are solidly connected buildings, there Taylor, Andres said that the chief has previously been "no standard logo restriction involved in lining up for art, music, theater, and dance." performances is financial. Costs for a 
Andres mel the need for a single title single appearance range from $1,500 to that the community could identify with $50,000. in his proposal for this cultural year, Spending a Sunday afternoon "Look What You're Beginning to See." -.., celebrating the Hites of Spring on the 
The result was made known to Island is an idea Andres is toying with students this summer when ·brochures for next year. were sent to the homes to provide a He would like to "get artists who preview of what Saint Mary's is offering would perform out there (on the island this year. outside of Haggar)" in lieu of guitarists 
Andres said that an additional benefit or chamber artists, modern dancers, of this first-time procedure is that theater readers, and other performers " ... parents could see what cultural ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~that "have to be live." events are happening." With nine years of experience at the 
With the change in namn has come a "potpourri of events, but deliberately lieves that "playing around with the Star Plaza in Merryville, Indiana, Andres program restructuring in which a wide done," that include musicals, country, acoustics" will be an advantageous is accustomed to scheduling shows that variety 'Jf shows will be performed and classieal, and modern. move in the stream of change that is include everything from Bob Hope and have been scheduled in the environment In our age of rock 'n roll, heavy metal, taking place. Bill Cosby to the Oak Ridge Boys. He most suitable to their artistic nature. and Top 40 music, Andres seeks to The South Bend community will holds a masters degree in theater from 
For example, two of the six expose Saint Mary's students to a variety continue to enjoy the benefits of Saint Syracuse University. productions are to appear in the Little of cultural events. Mary's cultural opportunities and Theater. "Stepping Out," a second Interior changes in the 1,300-seat facilities. Andres is pleased to contribute his semester show, will take advantage of O'Laughlin Au&itorium will be under "We are truly the home of the South talents to Saint Mary's and although It is the new curtains and computerized way beginning this week. The lower half Bend Symphony Orchestra and the South "too soon to tell" what the reactions to lighting that has made the Little Theater of the scats will be draped off in an Bend Chamber Singers," said Andres, the Moreau Center for the Arts are, he is operable for more performances. attempt to "contain audience space." and added that the Fishoff Competition confident that the changes are best for 
Instead of bringing only musicals to Andres has not overlooked the effect office moved to Saint Mary's and the publicity, performance, and attendance. Saint Mary's, Andres has enlisted a the drape will have on sound but be-competition may take place on campus 

'Not forgotten...' 
POW/MIA Week aimed at eng lightening community 
By PAIGE SMORON be held captive," said Ellen and friends. Across the country, Assistant Accent Editor Cierzniak, Arnold Air Society not only campuses, but civic Squadron Commander. organizations, communities, Over 2.000 Americans are Monday evening at 7:00 p.m., and military bases will be still missing or are unaccounted a POW/MIA Memorial Mass is commemorating POWs and 
for in Southeast Asia. planned at the Sacred Heart MIAs. 
Over 2,000 Americans have Crypt. From Tuesday through "It also coincides with the left behind families and friends. Thursday, POW/MIA bracelets, efforts of elected officials who Over 2.000 Americans still pins, and pens will be sold in are demanding full ac­need hopn -and prayers. the dining halls on both countability for its enlisted," 
Prisoner of War/Missing in campuses. said Hanson. Action Awareness Week started A flag Hetreat Ceremony will According to Hanson, there last night with special take place on Friday at 4:00 are over 100 veterans within 50 intentions said at masses cel­p.m. on South Quad, involving miles of South Bend who were ebrated on both the Notre representatives from Army, POWs in the past, largely from Dame and Saint Mary's cam­Navy, and Air Force HOTC. World War II. "Before the puses, and the Arnold Air So­At the ceremony, Lt. Col. Retreat Ceremony, we're 
ciety is planning events Dennis Krembel, a 1974 Notre holding a reception for these 
throughout the week to inform Dame graduate, will be the POWs, and are expecting about 
the community of this Issue. guest speaker. An Air Force 40 of them," said Hanson. 
"The goal of the week is pilot, Krembel was in the first The week here on campus is twofold," said Col. Howard squadron deployed to Operation being organized by the Arnold Hanson. Desert Storm in August of 1990, Air Society, a fraternal service 
"First, we want to recognize and flew an F-15 for the organization within Air Force 
those veterans who have served duration of the war. ROTC that consists of around as POWs, and secondly, we To conclude the week, at the 75 members this semester. want to make the national Michigan State game, there will The Society also participates 
public aware that MIAs are still be a moment of silence after in a number of other service 
a signilicant concern." the United States and the projects, including volunteer have been recovered, but still situation. "We are hoping to 
The week is also aimed at POW/MIA flags have been work at the Logan Center and remain strongly committed to shed some light on the recognizing the families and raised, just before the National the building of Kids Kingdom in the issue. In particular, this POW/MIA Issue," said Cierz­loved ones who have worked so Anthem. South Bend. organization is responsible for niak. long to resolve the fate of POWs The activities of the week are Another group involved in the those familiar silver MIA "By gaining knowledge of the 
and MIAs. part of an annual focus in cause is the National League of bracelets. issue, we can further our "It is important for the honor of the missing or unac­families. Not only relatives of The week will offer an op­dedication to peace and respect eornmunity to hope for freedom counted for members of the present POWs and MIAs, many portunity for everyone to learn for those men and women who 
for any prisoner who may still military, and for their family are families of loved ones who more about this ongoing died for our country." 


The Ob&erver accepts dassnieds every business day from 10 a.m to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar Conege Center. Deadline for next-day classnleda Is 3p.m. AU dass~ieds 
-. Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per charader per day, Including all spaces. 
FOR RENT NOTICES II ~======~========:=:-~ LR~e-n_t_a~1~9-~~~or~TV~.two~-s-em--es-t-er~s  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need I.U. and all other tickets  WANTED: 3 PITT GA's for family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS I HELP MEl Dan x2349  2 USC GA's Needed Call Patrick@ 271-1573  Have MSU tix. Will trade for Pitt,Tenn. Call x2258 Need  
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII  only $99.95.  call Bill@ X1747  4 Pitt  
25% off list price  13" ~or TV, two semesters only  Need to sell 4 Michigan State  HELPII NEED 2 PITI GA'S FOR  2USC  
10.5:30 everyday  $69.95.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  GA's-call Kathryn-x2808  PARENl'S CALL TIM X4063  GAs  
Pandora's Books comer of ND  VCR, two semesters, $99.95.  will  
ave &Howard  For fast free delivery, call  NEEDMSUTIX  My dad's rich.  TRADE  
COLLEGIATE RENTALS  Angie x2172  Need to sell 2 Mich. State  Sell me an MSU GA.  2 Navy GA  
272-595g_  GA's-call Laurie-x2867  Mickey, x1846  1 Tenn St  
lYPING AVAILABLE  x2204  
287-4082  STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO  HelpIll  Will trade awsome Mich. St.  
NO. Efficiencies & one-bdrm.  ·  Need 6 GAs for Michigan State.  G.A.'s for USC G.A.'s #1798  NEEDED: OneGA for NAVY.  
Fund raising I 50% profit for your  Utilities paid. Call 255-9664.  My parents are coming out to  Let's make a deal. Call Mike at 283­ Call : Lisa at x4832  
organization; dubs, charities, ect.  celebrate my 21st birthday on  1305  NEEDED:1 TENN STUD TIX-Iile  
Five different programs available. Call Nancy at 232-8242  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  Saturday the 21st. They need 2 MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a  Air Force GA's, X1502  depends on it.Price no object.Call Brian x3083  PERSONAL  ]  
golden birthday.  
LOST/FOUND  BED&BREAKFAST FOR NDIST. MARY'S FAMILIES. 2  Call Julie at x1342  NEED MICH. ST. TICKETS.  I need 2 Mich. State tix. Call Erin X2590 if you can  I am the Lizard King and I can do anything.  

 BEDROOMS, PRIVATE BATH.  GA'S OR STUDENTS. WILL  help.  
TEN MINUTES FROM CAMPUS  TRADE PURDUE TIX PLUS $$  
LOST KEYS, LOST KEYS. I LOST  SAFEST NEIGHBORHOOD IN  PLEASE CALL MIKE AT:  WILL TRADE PITI. STUD TIX ·  $$$$  
4 KEYS ON A NIKE KEY CHAIN.  AREA. 234-2626  I have $$$$$ lor your Mich St  256-7034  FOR MICH. ST. STUD TIX. OR  Need GA's to all home games.  
PLEASE CALL 277-9468, LEAVE  GAsl Call Kirstin at 4279 or  WILL BUY MICH. ST. STUD TIX  have extra Purdue tix.  
MESSAGE . THANKS.  4208.  BILL 4334  Call Tom x1563  
Three and lour bedroom homes for  Need 3 Mich St GAs  
FOUND: One man's watch  rent. Walking distance to Notre  i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE  Why  call Jim 232-3296  I HAVE 2 GA 'S FOR MICH ST  Monica Eigelberger is a ho.  
on lawn in front of Keenan­ Dame.  don't you sell them to me? I am Jan.  
Stanford. Please call x2722 to claim.  232-5411 or 234-0379.  Call me lor a good time, 277-6885..  Need stud & GAs lor most home games. x4282  CHRISX1699  ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor and teacher, longing to share our  
HOUSE MATE WANTED: Shr 2  I NE:ED GAS TO HOME GAMES  love with newborn. We'll give your  
LOST: SILVER FILIGREE PEN  BR Hse w/lib, quiet, grad M Lg Kit,  NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR  NEEDED: 2 GA's FOR EITHER  CALL 312 733-5070  baby a caring, warm and happy  
WITH MY NAME CARVED ON IT­ wshr/dry, gar, AC, plenty storg.  NAVY GAME. CALL MARK  PITI, USC or NAVY.  home. Expenses paid. Call Carol  
LEIS ROBBINS. I'VE HAD IT FOR  $250, shr utils Avt Oct 1 Jeff 288­ COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161.  CALL JOHN at x1590. Thanks I  and Frank collect (212) 874-3537.  
13 YEARS AND IT MEANS A LOT  3878  
TO ME. I LOST IT IN THE  I NEED 8 PITT & 4 TENN. TIX!!  -USC TROJANS­ 
BOOKSTORE. PLEASE CALL 273­ Space still available lor  CALL TIM 283-1706 NO OFFER  - need  SIX  g.a.'s  - HELP!  Di-watch outl Tomorrow's the big  
0703.  MICH STATE weekend for  WILL BE REFUSED!!!  CALL  A 0 B at x1845  I NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN  day--<ton 't even think  
B &B accomadationsl Call  STATE. NO PRICE TOO HIGH  about making your 8:40 on Wed!  
FOUND:  Picture of a navy man  271-0989  I need 2-3 Michigan St. GA's  CALL 3353 ASK FOR SCOTI  
(one not in ND NROTC) found.by  NEED 4 NAVY GAs  call Kathleen @ X4082.  Michigan State ­2 rooms at  
infirmary. If yours, give Jeni a call at X4209.  FOR SALE  WILL PAY GOOD $$$ scon277-3327  Marriott, Sept. 20 & 21. 217-546­0981.  
Need 6 USC GA's and 3 Tennessee  HAVE 4 MSU GA's,  
LOST: BROWN LEATHER WALLET  MacGregor Tour golf clubs,  NEED 2 STUD AND 3 GA'S FOR  Ga's.  want to trade lor 2 Pitt and 2 USC  $50 FREE merchandise; room  
LAST MON. NIGHT  induding bag, cart, and balls.  MSUI KATE 4998.  Call #3718  GA's.  x1236.  decor, Xmas gilts, etc. Host a  
PLEASE CALL ED OR STEVE AT  Excellent condition. $190. 233­ home/dorm or catalog party with  
X3402 REWARD!  9094.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade  I need 2 GA's for either USC or Pitt.  Decor and More. Call Nancy at  
WANTED. TOP$$$. 800.638-7655.  for 2 Pin GA's. Call Colleen, x2525.  X2479  232-8242.  
LOST: SOCCER BALL LEFT AT  LAPTOP COMPUTER  
STEPAN FIELDS. PLEASE  Zenith 181, dual3.5 drives  WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD  ATIN: MINORITY STUDENTS  
RETURN.  IBM P.C. compatible  JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE?  I Still Need MSU Stud Tickets  HAVE M.S.U. GA's II  We're trying to organize a minority  
Call Dan @271-9239  DOS. in carton, rarely used.  NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs USC  Buy or Trade, Steve 277-474g  student yearbook that would serve  
Call 272-3255  \  ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­ FOR SELL OR WILL TRADE  as a supplement to The Dome. This  
found: intermediate accounting book. 277-9468  Tape Deck, Stereo Cabinet, Very large pillow. Steve,  0654. Please help desperate alumni!  I NEED 2 USC GAs and will pay. Call DAVE at X1859  FOR GA's TO USC OR TENN. 283-1167  yearbook would cover the minority activities on campus (i.e., Black Images, tihe fashion  
FOUND FOUND  239-6847 Racing bike in excellent condition.  Need 2 Mich St. GA'sl Call X4189  WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL  I NEED MICH. ST. GA'S CALL MIKE @ X1862  show, ISO Festival, etc.). Any students interested in being on the staff or just helping part-time  
pair of  CONTACTS  Many accesories. Call #3718.  Will Trade 2 GA tickets to Mich St,  COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON.  contact Patti Cushing at 233-4241.  
between Knot and P.E. call X2688  FLITONS ETC. Best Prioesl From Your Touch-Tone Phone Call  or USC for 2 to Tenn. or will purchase Tenn tickets at top $$. Call Chris or Ed  NOTRE DAME TICKETS WANTED 271-1371  PLEASE HELP I NEED A BLOCK OF FOUR TENNESSEE GA'S  INDIANA ALITO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,  
ID claim  1-800-484-1060 When You Hear a Tone, Dial1576  1-80().800.0061  NEED M.ST. TIX  I CAN PURCHASE THEM, BUT WOULD PREFER TO  289-1993. Office near campus.  
FOUND: RELIGIOUS MEDAL CALL 289-5311 ANTHONY  WE SHIP A Vosidus Production  I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A  NEED PITT TIX 213-470.4419 LV. Mssg.  TRADE G.A.'S TO ANY OTHER HOME GAME MIKE x1161  COMEDIANS NEEDED!! Tryouts for Notre Dame comedy­improv troupe Sept 16-6:30 pm­ 
ATTENTION: BANDS 1111  RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS  Basement of Walsh Hall. Bring  
WANTED  Quality PA sys'rem 4-sale VERY REASONABLEII  ADDED BONUS CHRIS X3414or 3410  Need Mich St. and USC GAs  i need 2 GA's for USC and PITI. Greg x1795.  yourself and some creativity. ???s--Call Tim and Doug at x2266.  
Call John x1109 or Geoff x1064  call Phil at x2096  
FREE TRAVEL, CASH, AND  Guitar Lessons  NEED 2-3 MSU GAs STEVE #1083  i need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791  LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am.  
EXCELLENT BUSINESS EXPERIENCE II Openings available for individuals or student organizations to promote the country's most successful SPRING BREAK tours. Call Inter­ from ND teacher Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 MUSICAL DRINKING GLASSES, PLAYS NO VICTORY MARCH.  HELP N.Y. ALUMNI-need MSU tix. please call x1676  TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS RANDY 80().323-7687 Have 2 Pitt GA's trade lor MSU  i need 2 MICH. ST. GA's. Jeff x1791. I need 1-3 Mich St GA's, have $$, Amy x2558  Eastem time. Train and jump the same day. Modem equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665.  
Campus Programs 1-800-327-6013.  $10. ORDER YOURS NOW. BETlY 239-7458 OR 289-1321  Need 2 GA's for MSU will pay$$$  GA's. 717-757-1934.  Needed: 2 tickets for USC and 4 for Tenn. Student or GAs. Call Sue  BACK-UP SINGER NEEDED for working campus band  
DRUMSII You got 'em, we want  call X1562  ND '82/SMC '83 grads from PA to Calif. retuming for reunion.  at 271-0053.  Call J.P. 271-0742.  
'em. Call Joe at 271-1211 or Jason at 287-8818.  Cubs vs Phillies tix  I HAVE PURDUE TIX  We need GA's lor USC! Please help us ill Call my little sister,  Have 2 Navy GA's, will trade lor 2 Mich St. GA'sl Also need  Not a bad road trip ladies. Although we didn't get as much action as  
NEED 6 GA'S FOR PITTSBURGH RICH RELATIVES WILL PAY HIGH PRICE 1111  for sale Sept 26 277-8790 Brent  CALL JIM X2341 NEED 2 MICH. ST. GA's  AMY, at X2875. THANKS! HAVE TENN. GA'S NEED MICH. ST. GA'S  1 Mich St. stud Call Dan at 277-3203 ·  Nancy, there's always next time. Alter all, we still have a lull tank of gas.  
CALL CHUCK -2226 Free Scholarship Information lor students. Please call for free  Round Trip ticket to ATLANTA good until Christmas  CALL JOE X2341 Need 2 stud tix to MICH. STill Call  LIBBY X4868 OR 4870 NEEDED! Mich.St. tix-2 ga 1 stud. Call Scon •2373  Need 5 MSU GAs!! Julie x1 618 Need 2 MICH ST. GA's to shame  CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890  
brochure. Results guaranteed. 1­800-937-1797 Ext. 14 $350.00/ DAY Processing  McPius External Drive BOOk lmagewriter 11-$700 Call 273-1934  Petex1791. i need 2 MICH ST. GA's, and 5 NAVY GA's. Cristin x3433  HELPI Four Persian Gulf War Vets missed last ND season coming lor Mich. St. NEED 4 GA'S call Keven  Mich St alums (Mom and Dad) Kent277-1112  NEED,NEED,NEED,NEED 2 NAVYGA'S CALL KRIS@ x3474!11!111!!1!1!!!!11!!!  
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. ~-80().255-0242  SB-Kansas City, air rd trip,  LUSTED AFTE A: 2 or 3 Tennessee studs. Call George  #2201  Stephanie-Just thinking about you... RF  
Nov 23-30 $98. 287-6g22  at x1672.  I need 1 G.A. for little brother for the  FOR SALE: 2 MICH ST. GA  
PANAMA CITY BEACH  Michigan State Game. $$ 283­ BEST OFFER.  POOH SAYS: Happy Binhday,  
This Spring Break earn free trips  Walk to ND from beautiful  1662  TOMx1781  Beth! With love, PE SA  
and make the most money. Sell the  contemporary. 11 years NEW. 3  NEED 3-5 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S.  
best location on the beach next to  BR, 2 1/2 bath, 2300 sq. ft. Call  CALL JOHN 312-951-4167 DAYS,  Michigan St GA's NEEDED!  Brian,  
the world's largest night clubs.  Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or  OR 312-g29-9411 EVENINGS.  Call Sharon 284-5146  Need 2 student tix or GA's for  Sorry! 
Campus reps needed to promote  Cressy & Everett BH & G. 233­ Michigan State and 2 GA's and 1  Love,Me  
Spring Break. Call Kim at 1-800­ 6141.  NEED 4 NAVY GA'S  student for Pitt. Call284-3814 and  
558-3002.  CALLX3806  I NEED 5 NAVY G.A.S BADLY  leave your name, number and the  Roomies,  
COMPLITERSI Mac+, 2dd, ptr,  PLEASE HELP MEl x4312 John  price.  The french fry break was truly 
Do you play bass guitar? If so, we  $700/bst  John@271-9239  appreciated.  
need you. A lew ND students are  Apl//gs Supersystem, $1100  DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS GA'S  HELP!!!! Ill!!!!  Your stressed and  
forming a band. Call Jason at 287­ 386sx mlhrbrdlupgrade your  1 MSU  I really need 3 Michigan St.  VERY tired roomie  
8818.  PC! $350, 386 notebook  2PITI  GA's. Will pay BIG bucks!  
40megs, VGA, $2400/b  PLEASE HELPI  Need Mich St GA's  Call X4909.Joy  Carla,  
Mattx1778  KAREN X4918  Karen x4808  Stinking homewrecker!  
Need Bassist, Drummer, and  I need USC GA's. Will buyor trade  love, Donny 
Keyboardist.  I need tix lor Tenn. (GA or Stu)  Tenn. GA's. Bridget x4980  
Contact: Wheels 3131 or Hool4788  TICKETS  I DESPERATELY NEED 2 OR 3 GA'S FOR PITI GAME Ill  Call Joe at x2064.  Need 4 USC GA's  The Secret of Getting Rich:  
CompuSearch needs campus rep. 5  I NEED GA OR STD TIXS ALL HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306  X1684  I need 2 MSU GA's. Call 283-2067.­ Call Bill X1143  Amazing Book Tells All. Free Oller Details-Send a self-addressed stamped 
hrs. per week. No selling Great pay.  Please help my HOMETOWN­ Need Pitt GA lor young bro.  envelope to:  
Call Gordon 1-80().284-3842.  NEED 2GA OR 1STD/1GA FOR USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598.  HONEY visit mel I need 3 Tenn Tix! Call Tim x1640  Tim X1409  SELLING TICKETS ALL GAMES. LUIS 273-1528  Book, P.O. Box 311 Mercersburg, PA 17236-A  

Monday, September 16, 1991 The Observer page 11 
Police tear-gas potential riot in Ann Arbor; Tony Smith shines on offense 
By RENE FERRAN AND and dispersed the crowd, using tear gas and billy clubs to get
RICH KURZ 
their point across. 
Associate Sports Editors 
"All I know is that they needed to do something be­
The fireworks were not con­
cause the streets were on the
lined only to Michigan Stadium 
verge of a riot," said senior
this weekend. 
John Rapchinski. "(But) they
A .crowd of about 1,000 
took it way too far. They were
Michigan and Notre Dame stu­
chasing kids two or three
dents gathered outside of 
blocks up the street and gassing 
O'Sullivan's, a popular hangout them." 
on University Avenue in the heart of the campus. The One player who had an out-Tony Smith crowd, divided across both 


standing game for the Irish was sidelines for a 14-yarder, and asides of the avenue, engaged in split end Tony Smith. The diving 25-yard grab that Smith a shouting match and marsh­senior caught five passes for a had to totally extend his bodymallow fight in what started out career-high 121 yards, includ-to get. ••• as a friendly confrontation. 
ing the second Notre Dame Michigan center Steve EverittHowever, as the night wore 
touchdown. had to leave the game near the on, bottles were thrown and "They were in man," Smith end of the first half with ascuffles broke out along the said. "When I see man, I smile. fractured jaw and severalfringes of the crowd between I love it." missing teeth. Everitt's injuriespartisans of the two teams. 
Smith made a number of ac-will keep him on the sidelinesAnn Arbor police in riot gear 
rob atic catches, including at least through the Wolverines' stepped in around 2:00 a.m. 
walking the tightrope on the next game against Florida State 
Under media pressure, United States Olympic Committee President will not seek re-election 
gation that I influenced any proceed with the-selection of a 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -U.S. business decision of the nominating committee, the first 
Olympic Committee President Olympic Committee or in any step toward naming his succes­Hobert Helmick, saying Sunday way hurt the Olympic sor. 
he is the target of an unprece­Committee. "I don't want the presentre­
dented attack by the media, "The only implication is that view of my situation to in any 
won't seek re-election when his there's a general appearance of way impact moving forward 
term expires next year. wrongdoing. I apologize for with the nomination procedure, Helmick, a Des Moines, Iowa, that, but now I see that it won't and therefore they should not 
lawyer, said his decision to step give up and in fact sports writ­consider me a candidate," 
down next year was based in ers at U.S. Olympic Committee Helmick said. 
Helmick announced he would not seek another term during a meeting Saturday with the USOC's Athletes' Advisory council in Indianapolis. 
Helmick, who works as a vol­unteer for the USOC, earned at least $127,000 in 1990 from the companies. 
Last weekend, the USOC ex­ecutive committee gave Helmick a vote of confidence, saying there was no evidence of improper influence. But Helmick acknowledged errors in judgment concerning the appearance of conflicts of interest and apologized, the USOC said. He agreed to terminate and refrain from all activities that could raise conflict-of-interest concerns. 
On Wednesday, the USOC ap­pointed a special counsel ­Arnold Burns -to review all of Helmick's records to determine whether full disclosure has been made. · 
Helmick said he was proud of what the USOC has accom­plished during his six years as president, noting the organiza­tion's budget had gone from $90 million to $400 million. 
"When I started, it (USOC) was managed by people without experience in sports management. We've worked diligently to make sure the officers and board seats are not merely honorary positions given out to people who have been successful in business. They are now held by people who have had hands on experience in the business of sport management as well as athletes. 

when:  sunday, sept. 22  
LIJhere:  stepan fields  
LIJllO:  for charity  

sign-ups in both dining halls september 16, 17, 18 
_j

-----------·--------, 


Catch 
continued from page 16 
"We showed man and went into zone. All the defender has to do is play the ball." 
Both Jeff Burris and Greg Davis were in coverage on Howard, but Grbac made a per­fect throw, putting it where only Howard could get to it. 
"We have a good feel for each other," said Howard. "He can gauge my speed pretty well, 
and he knows how much air to put under the hall to allow me to get to it. 
September 28th. 
Everitt suffered his irtjury with 1:48 left in the second quarter while blocking on Ricky Powers' 16-yard touchdown run. His helmet came flying otT on the play, and as Powers dashed by, he was inadvertantly kicked by Irish linebacker Demetrius DuBose. 
Michigan coach Gary Moeller after the game was upset by the circumstances surrounding his starting center's injury. 
''I'm mad because those headgear shouldn't come off," qe said. "Maybe we're going to have to strap them on tighter. That's a stupid injury on some­body's part, and we're going to straighten that out." 
The Irish rushing attack, usually the backbone of the of­fense, was held totally in check. 
The Michigan defense limited Notre Dame to a total of 78 yards on the ground, 22 of which came on two carries by Willie Clark at the end of the first half. 
By comparison, Wolverine running back Ricky Powers had 177 yards rushing for Michigan. 
Two Wolverines etched their names into the Michigan record books Saturday. Quarterback Elvis Grbac set a new team record for completion percent­age in a game, going 20-22 for a percentage of90.9. 
Meanwhile, tailback Ricky Powers carried the ball 38 times in the contest, placing him third on the single-game record list for carries behind Ron Johnson (42 carries against Northwestern in 1967) and Butch Woolfolk (39 versus Michigan State in 1981). 

Belles volleyball wins one, drops two in Wisconsin tournament 
By KILEY COBLE "We didn't maintain our Sports Writer intensity against Wisconsin-The Saint Mary's volleyball Lutheran." 
team participated in the In Saturday's finale, the Belles Wisconsin Whitewater ended their tournament Tournament this past weekend, appearance on a strong note, dropping their first two defeating Stephen's Point, IS­matches, and then rebounding 12, 15-7, 15-9. The weekend's to close out the finale with a competition produced some victory. strong individual performances The Belles opened competition from the Saint Mary's squad. against Eauclaire University on Junior Karen Lorton recorded Friday, falling in three straight 38 kills, 15 points, and 22 digs, games, 15-8, 15-4, 15-7. Later while sophomore Michelle that evening, against Martino had 97 assists in the 
Wisconsin-Lutheran, the Belles three matches. lost their second match of the "They were in control today," night, 16-14, 15-7, 15-9. said Schroeder-Biek. "It was "We could have done better good for me to see and good for 
them to feel. We overcame our

against Eauclaire, b. u~ th ~~ 
were a tougn matcn, saw mistakes, especially in coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. defensive movement. We had a 
definite improvement." 


Argonauts management in uproar as Rocket suffers concussion 
CALGARY, Alberta (AP)­
Toronto Argonauts general Manager Mike McCarthy wants Dan Wicklum thrown out of the CF.L for a late hit Sunday that sent Raghib "Rocket" Ismail to the hospital with a concussion. 
But the Calgary Stampeders linebacker said that if Ismail were not a millionaire, nobody would care about the hit. 
Ismail, the rookie from Notre Dame who signed a guaranteed $18 million, four-year contract last spring, left Toronto's 33-24 loss to Calgary midway through the second quarter after being hit by Wicklum. Ismail had already been tackled while returning a punt when Wicklum came in late and drove his helmet into the Rocket's shoulder and neck. 
Wicklum was asseSsed a spearing penalty on the play. 
"I'm going to get him out of the league," fumed McCarthy afterwards. "(Ismail's) head 
"One of the toughest catches was the one that popped out in the end zone (in the second quarter). This one I said I couldn't let this one get away." 
The call itself was surprising, one that wouldn't have even have been dreamt of if the con­servative Schembechler was still coach of the Wolverines. This call, and the subsequent victory, may be enough to raise Michigan co.ach Gary Moeller's status to that of a top coach and finally shake oiT Bo's ghosts. 
"I wasn't very surprised by the call because Coach Moeller is a gutsy coach. He showed the nation today that he is one of the top coaches in the country," said Howard. 
was already on the ground. It's an emotional game, but you didn't need cheap shots." 
Wicklum denied intentionally trying to hurt Ismail. 
"I had no malicious intent," said the fourth-year pro from the University of Guelph. "He was an Argonaut returning a punt and I wanted to tackle him. It was a quasi-late hit and the refs called me. 
"If the referees had thought it was a blatant, late hit, an intentional cheap shot, they would have kicked me out of the game. But they didn't think that." 
Wicklum noted that later in the game Toronto's Chris Gaines was called for piling on Calgary quarterback Gilbert Renfroe. 
"The only reason this is an issue is because the guy (Ismail) makes so much money," S'aid Wicklum. "That's the bottom line here." 
For his own part, Moeller was quite humble. 
"It takes a guy like Elvis to put it up there, and a little fast guy like Desmond to make you look good as a coach. Would I call it over again? Yeah," said Moeller. 
Holtz left no doubt as to the Importance of that play. 
"They don't get that (touchdown) and anything can happen," Holtz said. "It was a fine catch. The critical play." 
If the Irish had held the Wolverines on that play, Notre Dame would have bad the mo­mentum and the ball, with a good chance to continue their dominance of Michigan. 
Not on this day, though. 

page 12 The Observer Monday, September 16, 1991 
•

Fridge 1ces 20-17 win for Bears; Lions deny Shula 
(AP)-Matt Bahr learned an important lesson. You can't kick a football through a Refrigerator. 
William "The Refrigerator" Perry, Chicago's 320-pound de­fensive tackle, blocked Bahr's 35-yard field goal attempt with 15 seconds to play, preserving the Bears' 20-17 victory over the New York Giants. 
A late defensive stand was the key for the Bears, who blew a 13-0 lead but went ahead for keeps on Neal Anderson's 42­yard scoring run with 6:39 to play. 
The Giants (1-2) drove to the Chicago 13, but an illegal mo­tion penalty on third down moved the ball back to the 18. Then Jeff Hostetler threw an incomplete pass, forcing the 


Irish 
continued from page 16 

Wolverines had a quick 3-0 lead. "That interception got Michigan's crowd into it and put us in a bad situation early," Holtz said. Michigan's ball-control offense was on display in the second quarter. The Wolverines scored two touchdowns on drives of 82 and 80 yards that ate up almost 12 minutes of the period to take a 17-0 lead. The first score came on a 29­yard end around by Howard on which he faked out Rod Smith at the 15 and found nothing but daylight until he crossed the goal line. After the kickoff. Notre Dame struck back. Mirer found tight end Derek Brown across the middle, and the senior rumbled 46 yards to the Michigan 24. If not for a diving tackle by Erick Anderson, Brown would have scored. Anderson's stop loomed larger two plays later when a muffed exchange between Mirer and Tony Brooks was recovered by Anderson at the Wolverine 21, snuffmg out Notre Dame's best scoring opportunity so far in the game. Michigan then ran off a 6:45 minute drive, capped by a 16­yard run by Powers, to up its lead to 17 points The Irish quickly struck back, however, taking the ball 65 yards in 92 seconds, with Mirer finding Jerome Bettis on a de­lay pattern across the middle from the three to close the deficit to 17-7 just before half­time. "That score gave us a lot of confidence going into halftime," said Irish wide receiver Tony Smith. A charged-up Notre Dame team came out of the locker room, stopping the Wolverines on their first possession of the second half. After forcing a Michigan punt, the Irish drove 80 yards in nine plays, the key one a35-yard strike from Mirer 
Giants to go for the tie. lead. Rodney Hampton ran for of 24 passes for 173 yards for the 1 set up Herschel Walker's "I got my hand on it and two TDs and Bahr kicked a field the Lions. go-ahead TD run. Steve Young, blocked it," Perry said. goal to give the Giants a 17-13 Steelers 20, Patriots 6 in his third straight start for "I don't know, maybe he did it lead that didn't hold up. At Pittsburgh, Bubby Brister injured Joe Montana, completed with his stomach," Bears coach broke a tie with a 32-yard 19 of 27 passes for 275 yards, Mike Ditka said. Uons 17, Dolphins 13 completion to Eric Green early including 15-and 21-yard TD At Detroit, the Lions (2-1) in the fourth quarter. The passes to Jerry Rice, but the 
"I really don't know what prevented Don Shula's 300th Steelers (2-1) then made it 20-6 49ers fell to 1-2. happened," Bahr said. "I NFL coaching win and spoiled when punter Bryan Wagner thought I struck the ball well. Dan Marino's 30th birthday. kicked the ball into his own Browns 14, Bengals 13 Of all the things you would blocker and Pittsburgh's Ernie At Cleveland, Matt Stover think that would happen, that's It appeared it would be the Mills recovered in the end zone kicked four field goals, includ­the last one." Dolphins doing the celebrating for a touchdown. ing a 45-yarder with four sec­
Coach Ray Handley said the after Shawn Lee picked off onds left. The difference in the Giants were trying "to get the Rodney Peete's pass and lum­Eagles 24, Cowboys 0 game was a second-quarter ball into the end zone to win the bered to the Lions 3 with 4:42 At Irving, Texas, Clyde safety, set up when Brian game and not trying to set up a remaining. But the Lions Simmons set a club record with Hansen's 51-yard punt pinned field goal. But the penalty set us pushed the Dolphins back to the 4 112 sacks and the Eagles set a the Bengals at their 4. James back." 5 and, on fourth down, Marino's team mark by sacking the Brooks was tackled in the end 
Jim Harbaugh threw a 75-pass for Tony Martin was Cowboys' Troy Aikman 11 times zone by rookie James Jones as yard touchdown pass to slapped away by Ray Crockett while intercepting three of his Cincinnati tried a sweep on Wendell Davis, and Kevin Butler in the end zone. passes. Jim McMahon threw for third down. Cincinnati (0-3) kicked two field goals as Barry Sanders ran for 143 two Philadelphia touchdowns. fought back to lead 13-11 on Chicago took a 13-0 halftime yards and Peete completed 13 Jim Breech's 36-yard field goal 
Redskins 34, Cardinals 0 with 6:41 left. The Browns 
to Smith on third and 15 to The Michigan defense rewarded At Washington, Earnest Byner drove 60 to set up the winningkeep the drive alive. Moeller's confidence on Notre and Wilber Marshall took per­field goal.
Three minutes later, Mirer Dame's next series, stopping 
sonal charge against the
rolled out left and found Smith the Irish at midfield. And after Cardinals, who fell with a thud Raiders 16, Colts 0open again, this time in the end Hentrich's punt with 6:30 from the unbeaten ranks. At Los Angeles, Jay Schroeder zone, to pull Notre Dame to remaining, Powers (38 carries, Byner ran 23 times for 109 passed for 181 yards and awithin 17-14 with plenty of time 164 yards, 1 TD) picked up four yards and caught four passes touchdown while the Raiders on the clock. For the day, Smith first downs to help run the for 51 yards. Marshall had two added to Indianapolis' offensivetotalled five catches for a ca­clock out and preserve interceptions, one to stop a problems. The Colts (0-3) havereer-high 121 yards. Michigan's first win over Notre threat at the 8. He went 54 scored only one TD and just 13"You can't go to sleep on Notre Dame since 1986. 
yards with the other for a points in three games.
Dame," said Howard. "They're "Our kids didn't think that they 
touchdown.

such an explosive club, and can couldn't beat Notre Dame or 
Broncos 16, Seahawks 10 

put some points on the board in that there was a jinx, but you 
Packers 15, Buccaneers 13 At Denver, John Elway threw a 
a hurry." have to break that mentality," At Green Bay, Don Majkowski 61-yard TD pass to RickyBut Howard's diving catch put Moeller said. 
led the Packers on two late Nattie! and David Treadwell
that explosiveness back in the And now the Irish must prepare scoring drives, throwing to kicked three field goals, but thebottle and put to rest four years to face a Michigan State team Vince Workman for a TD with Broncos had to hold off aof Wolverine frustration. which also will be more than two minutes left and setting up Seattle comeback. John Kasay"That was a gutsy call by Coach anxious to wipe away memories Chris Jacke's 22-yard field goal kicked a 28-yard field goal andMoeller, but you have to make of Notre Dame's miracle victory with 22 seconds left that won it. Jeff Kemp hit Brian Blades on athose types of calls in games last year, as well as a 4 7 -yard TD pass in the last 7like this to win," Howard said. humiliating upset loss to Vikings 17, 49ers 14 1/2 minutes. Denver's defense"If we hadn't converted, I was Central Michigan Saturday. 
At Minneapolis, Anthony settled it by forcing four in-­
confident in our defense to hold "It certainly doesn't help us by Carter turned a short pass from complete passes after Seattlethem," said Moeller. "But yeah, them losing," Mirer said. 
Wade Wilson into a 46-yard got within 14 yards of a win­it would have been a big turn­"Hopefully, we can learn from touchdown and his reception to ning TD.
ing point." this game." 
INDUSTRY DAY COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
September 24 BANQUET 
MONOGRAM ROOM 
HORS D'OEUVRES 6:30 sponsored by General Electric & The Travelers 
•


DINNER 7:15 
September 25 CAREER FAIR FITZPATRICK HALL (Floor 1 and 2) 11 :00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
* 
Representatives from over 30 major companies *Opportunities for full-time employment and summer internships 

* 
Bring your resumes! 


BANQUET REGISTRATION DEADLINE MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16 Dine with your choice of company representatives Extra forms available in Engineering Student center, 217 Cushing $5 deposit NOW, returned night of banquet Sponsored by the JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 

~ 
,. 

Monday, September 16, 1991 The Observer page 13 

Faulk rushes for 386 yards as San Diego State wins; Florida State, Florida romp, while Penn State is upset by Temple 
(AP)-Marshall Faulk not only who is from New Orleans. stunned college t'ootball. He "When I came into fall camp, also surprised himself. that was the most running that 
"Golly, stuff like this doesn't I did in my life. I was well­happen to a freshman,' he said conditioned. We ran every day Saturday of his NCAA single­after practice, even scrim­game rushing record of 386 mages." yards In San Diego State's 55­34 victory over Pacific. Faulk, No. 1 Florida St. 58, W. Michigan 0 who rushed 37 Urnes, broke the Casey Weldon threw a pair of previous Division I-A record of first-quarter touchdown passes 377 yards, set In 1989 by and nine different players Anthony Thompson of Indiana, scored for the top-ranked who rushed 52 Urnes against Seminoles (3-0), who built a 38­Wisconsin.. 0 lead as six players scored in 
"I knew we were going to the first half. hand It to somebody," San Diego State coach AI Luginbill No. 5 Florida 35, Alabama 0 said. "We were going to run it. Shane Matthews threw two He happened to be the one that third-quarter touchdown we handed It to. That was a passes, Errict Rhett ran for 170 heck of a performance by any­yards and one TD and body, whether a freshman or Matthews threw for 251 yards senior." Faulk rushed for seven and three TDs as the Gators (2­touchdowns, one short of the 0) beat Alabama (1-1) for the record by Howard Griffith of first time in seven tries in Illinois in 1990 against Gainesville. Southern Illinois, a 1-M team. On his final score, with 3:52 to No.6 Tennessee 30, UCLA 16 go, Faulk broke the previous Substitute defensive back NCM record for all divisions. Tracy Smith returned an inter­That was 382 yards, set by Pete ception 38 yards for a touch­Baranek of Carthage against down on the first play of the North Central in 1985. fourth quarter, and Darryl 
"I didn't get tired," said Faulk, Hardy's block of a punt resulted 
Please recycle. 
Newspaper, aluminum, and glass can all be recycled. Please use the recycling bins in the dining halls and dormitories. 
Thank you. 

The Observer is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
I
Asst Photo Editor Sports Photo Editor Features Photo Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor ~one page page personal statement shoul~ be submitted to Andrew McCloskey at The 
f 
Observer by Thursday, Sept 19, at 5pm. For further information contact Andrew McCloskey at239-7471 
The Notre Dame Finance Club presents: 

CAREER NIGHT 
All Business and Economics majors welcome 
Companies that will be attending include Arthur andersen, Andersen Consulting, Dean Witter, Northern Trust Co., General Mills, Leo Burnett Co. & many others 
Tuesday, September 17, 6-8 pm 
MONOGRAM ROOM, JACC 
in another score as the host Volunteers (2-0) beat UCLA (1­
No. 7 Oklahoma 40, North Texas 2 
Oklahoma (1-0) intercepted six passes and blocked a punt. Mike McKinley had two 1-yard touchdown runs and Cale Gundy threw for another score. But Gundy also was sacked three times and threw an inter­ception. 
No.9 Nebraska 71, Colorado St. 14 
Derek Brown ran for 121 yards and two touchdowns, while Omar Solo and redshirt freshman Calvin Jones added two touchdowns each for the Cornhuskers (2-0), who rolled up 696 yards in total offense and 529 yards rushing. 
No. 10 Iowa 29, Iowa St. 10 

Matt Rodgers threw a 46-yard touchdown pass to Danan Hughes off a flea-flicker on Iowa's second play and the Hawkeyes (2-0) scored three times in the first 8 112 minutes in their ninth straight win over the Cyclones. 
No. 22 Southern Cal 21, No. 12 Penn St.10 
The Trojans, shocked 24-10 by Memphis State in their opener, got a TD pass and a scoring run from quarterback Reggie Perry to beat Penn State (2-1). 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
In it's fourth year of varsity competition the Notre Dame women's golf team is learning how to compete against some of the top teams in the country. 
After a fourth-place finish at Michigan's Lady Wolverine 
nvitational on September 7th and 8th, the team travelled to Normal, Illinois for the Illinois State Golf Invitational this weekend. 
A 54-hole total of 1008, a 23 stroke improvement over last week's score, was good enough or 11th place in the 19-team field. The team showed im­provement in each round by following an opening score of 342 with scores of 337 and 329. Coach Tom Hanlon is pleased with the improvement his young 
No.13 Auburn 23, Mlsslsslppl13 
Thomas Bailey returned a punt 83 yards for a touchdown, and Joe Frazier ran 59 yards for a score for the Tigers (2-0). Jim Von Wyl added three field goals. 
No.14 Baylor 16, No. 19 Colorado 14 
Santana Dotson blocked a short field goal with three min­utes left, setting up teammate Jeff Ireland's 35-yard field goal with 51 seconds as Baylor (2-0) beat Colorado (1-1). 
No. 15 Texas A&M 45, Louisiana St. 
7 Greg Hill, the replacement for All-American Darren Lewis, set a major-college record for rushing yards in his first game with 212 on 30 carries, and also scored twice for Texas A&M (1­0). The previous record of 207 yards was set against Texas A&M by Baylor's Walter Abercrombie in 1978. 
No. 16 Ohio St. 23, Louisville 15 
Butler By'not'e scored two touchdowns as Ohio State (2-0) took a 16-0 lead and then turned back a late drive by Louisville, who advanced to the 12 in the final minute. Erik Watts' fourth-down pass fell incomplete in the end zone. 
No. 17 Georgia Tech 30, Boston Col. 14 
Rodney Wilkerson rushed for his first two college touchdowns and Shawn Jones ran for two In the second half for Georgia Tech (1-1). Jones rushed 12 times for 91 yards, including touchdowns of 14 and 35 yards, and passed for 224 yards. 
No. 23 Mlaalaalppl St. 48, Tulane 0 
The Bulldogs (3-0) held Tulane to 185 yards total offense, 152 In the second half, as they recorded their first regular­season shutout since a 49-0 victory over Marshall in 1979. 
No. 24 California 42, Purdue18 
Mike Pawlawski threw for three touchdowns and Cal forced six Purdue turnovers as the Golden Bears moved into the Top 25 for the first time since 1977. Pawlawski com­pleted 22 of 33 passes 275 yards, and has nine touchdown passes in two games. 
Cent. Michigan 20, Michigan St. 3 
Billy Smith ran for 162 yards on 40 carries as Central Michigan (2-0-1) upset the Spartans (0-1). Smith scored on a 15-yard run with 52 seconds left in the first half and put the Chippewas up 7-0. JeiT Bender and wide receiver Ken Ealy teamed for a 57-yard scoring pass, and Chuck Selinger kicked field goals of 22 and 32 yards. 


Irish women show improvement on links 
team is showing, but feels that the team still has a long way to go. 
"A coach is never satisfied," he said, "but I'm really encour­aged with our improvement. We need to lower our (84 stroke) average to about 80 if we hope to compete with some of the better teams." 
Northern Illinois won a final round battle with Illinois and host Illinois State to capture the team title, finishing the tournament at 938. 
Individually, senior captain Allison Wojnas led the Irish with a 247 total, including a fi­nal round 78, the team's best score of the tournament. Sophomores Chrissy Klein and Alicia Murray were close be­hind, finishing at 252. Denise Paulin and Jennifer Nigon rounded out the Irish lineup with scores of 257 and 279, re­spectively. Renee Heiken of Illinois took the individual medalist honors with a three­round total of 222. 
Next weekend, the competition gets even more difficult for the Lady Irish. 
"The field may even be tougher next week," Hanlon said, referring to the Michigan State Invitational, where the Irish shined in 1990. In the first two rounds, the team fired back-to-hack school records of 322 and 316 and although Hanlon isn't looking for records to be broken, he does expect improvement. 
"I think we'll play better at Michigan State," he com­mented. "We're on the road to doing better." 
That is a difficult road to travel, but with the leadership of Wojnas, Klein and Murray, along with the improvement of the younger players, the Lady Irish are well on their way to becoming one of the midwest's finest women's golf teams. 


American 
RedCross 
~*******************

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA •• Hours: Mon. · Fri. 8:00-5:30 * 
Come meet the Former Executive Director ! !
sat 8:oo.3:oo 

of Salzburg Summer School Melitta Dujany ! ! 

at the Information Meeting 
ri ~~ 1~ '?~Lfle tJjri~ 'Jr!)/,4~ 
StudeHt 1~ 1~ 

with Professor A Wimmer 
Monday Evening, September 16 at 6:30pm Satellite I, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
i MAPLE LANE : : BARBER SHOP: : : 
* : *
! 2112 South Bend Avenue* South Bend, IN 46637 * 
!* Appointments If Desired !* 

: 272-6722 : 
* *
* * 
.... * *****************·** 

-··-·........_.... _......,----·---·----A

r.......................................... ..... 4
~ ............... .. 
page 14 


Irish volleyball captures SW Missouri State Invitational 
The·observer Monday, September 16, 1991 


By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team svv.ept through the Southwest Missouri State Invitational with three convinc­ing wins, including an impres­sive showing against 14th­ranked Ohio State. 
The Irish entered the tournament after a disappoint­ing showing in the Big Four Classic. Top-25 member Kentucky swept Notre Dame in three straight games, which raised numerous questions about the Irish's ability to compete with the top teams. 
Notre Dame quickly put to rest any doubts by spiking Ohio State in the opening round 15­10, 15-13, 16-14. Notre Dame was led by Christine Choquette, who tallied 13 kills, and Janelle Karlan, who had 38 assists. 
Also contributing to the win was junior Cynthia May, who was moved into the starting lineup due to her impressive play off the bench in the Big Four Classic. The victory over the Buckeyes should be some­thing to build on as the Irish head into the rest of the season. 
"The victory over Ohio State really raised our team's moral. It was one of our goals and it's great to accomplish it," said Karl an. 
After dismantling the Buckeyes, the Irish faced Eastern Michigan. Notre Dame made quick work of the Hurons, 
, t 
CaAmericanHeart "'\Y Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE 

posting a 15-2, 15-5, 15-8 victory in a match which lasted only slightly over an hour. Jessica Fiebelkorn and Karlan were standouts for the Irish, as Fiebelkorn had a team high 10 kills while Karlan contributed 32 assists to go along with her four service aces. 
The victory placed the Irish in the championship match against host Southwest Missouri State, a team which stood at 2-6 and appeared to be no match for the streaking Irish. The upset-minded Bears played well above their heads, taking the Irish to five games before succumbing 15-7, 4-15, 16-14, 16-17, 15-9. 
The two-hour-plus match was highlighted by the play of Alicia Turner, who led the team in both kills (19) and digs (21), and Karlan, who had 46 assists. 
"We really played as a team," stated Karlan. "We were successful because we did everything as a team. That's the key to our success." 
Karlan was named tournament MVP due to her impressive play, which included a total of 116 assists in the three matches. Fiebelkorn and Choquette also received honors, as both were named to the all­
tournament team. 

The Irish (5-1) begin 
preparation for consecutive 
home games against Boston 
College and Illinois State 
scheduled for Sunday and 
Tuesday. 

Go against the grain.
Cut down on salt. 
dropped from the rankings. 
SPORlS BRIEFS 



The Center for Social Concerns University of Notre Datne 
CALENDAU OF EVENTS 
(For information: 239-5293) 
Oct. 1 -Tuesday · Seminar Orientations 
lnfom1ation on Post-Graduation Service Opportunities (for Juniors & Seniors) Sept. 17 -Tuesday 
4:30-5:00 p.m. 
Oct. 2 -Wednesday Post-Graduate Opportunities Fair Van Drivers' Seminar (Mandatory for those 5:00-6:00 p.m. 
7:00-10:00 p.m. (for Juniors and Seniors) who drive CSC vehicles unless one Seminar previously completed.) 
Oct. 7 -Monday Seminar Orientations 
Van Drivers' Seminar (Mandatory for those Sept. 18 -Wednesday 
Oct. 9-Wednesday Seminar Orientations who drive CSC vehicles unless one Seminar5:00-6:00 p.m. 
4:30p.m. Community Service Commissioners Meeting previously completed.) 
Oct. 10 -Thursday Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of BestCSC FALL BREAK SEMINAR APPUCATIONS 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Buddies/Logan volunteers DEADUNE 4:30p.m. Community Service Commissioners Meeting Washington Seminar 
Appalachia Seminar 
Oct. 10-11 IPSM Advisory Council Meeting Women, Church & Society 
Chicago -Cultural Diversity Seminar 
Oct. 11 -Friday Friday forum for faculty & staff-Theme:(tentative)
• 
12:15-1:00 p.m. "Sesquicentennial Year: Notre Dame and Catholic Education in the U.S." 
Hospitality Lunch for the benefit of theSept. 19 -Thursday Senior Rap-Up Registration Deadline 
11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Catholic Worker House Oct. 12-Saturday Center open prior to Pittsburgh gan1e Friday Forum for faculty and staff -Theme: 
"Sesquicentennial Year: Notre Dan1e and Catholic Sept. 20 -Friday 10:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. 
12:15-1:00 p.m. Education in the U.S."--Series begins with Prof. 
Oct. 15 -Tuesday Post Graduate Opportunities Information Night Timothy O'Meara 4:30-5:00 p.m. 
Sept. 21 -Saturday Center open prior to Michigan State gan1e Oct. 20-25 CSC FALL BREAK SEMINARS: 10:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. 
Washington Seminar 
Appalachia Seminar 
Sept. 25-Wednesday Urban Plunge Information Night Women, Church & Society7:00-7:30 p.m. 
Chicago-Cultural Diversity Seminar (tentative)
Summer Service Project Retreat Weekend Friday-Sunday 
Sept. 27-29 Sue Cunningham!fhomas McDermoll, C.S.C. 

Oct. 28-31 Seminar Follow-up/Evaluation Meetings 
Sept. 30 -Monday Seminar Orientations 
SESQUICENTENNIAL EVENT-During the University's S~squicente~al Year the Center is inviting alumni to speak in cl.a.sses offered by ~c dcparunents from which they graduated, and to meet more mformally With stu~ents and fac.ulty. _Th~ foe~ of the prese~tatwns ~d co~lVersauons is reflections about how their Notre Dan1c undergraduate or Law School expenence (ill theu maJor, ill theu college and ill the Umverslly as a whole) contributed to their living out the gospel caU to love God and neighbor in their work-life, in particular, as well as in their life as a whole: 


Monday, September 16, 1991 The Observer page 16 

The art of conversation 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
ACROSS 33 M1nd; reason 34 Witticism
1 Role for Rob1n W1lhams 35 Lends a hand 5 Tetched 36 fatale 9 Type of cotton 38 Top of the 13 First victim noggin 14 Small case 39 Actor Margolin, to friends
15 N1ce school 40 Pa1nter
17 Type of pear Tadema18 Start of a D. H. 
41 Rye disease 

Lawrence l1tle 19 D1stnbuted 
42 Investor's favorite level 

20 Hellman play. 46 French coin of 
23 Bern's river the 30's 24 Austin-to-Dallas 47 Put to flight 
dlr. 48 Last-place ball 
25 Promoted. 
teams

nominally 55 Mountain
32ln one way, nymph
these make sense 56 Funny Foxx 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
L A MPS

B R 
I B E 
'M"Ar 

AURAS ORALE 'YES STARK NINER ZB:~ 
EMUS GENIES

~DIM~ 

PARROT R*SER­
ALOSS ~~LSE
LAG SLANG ATA ONER *DE FADED 
-R EM 0 T E P 0 L Y P S A V A T A R E A R L s'A"ii MYBODYGUARD 
OLD B 0 I s EDoli OFTEN 
T 
E S 

e"R~ 
SA
--'--­

57 Glut 59 Rasp 60 Yen 61 Salver 62 Schusses 63 Suds, to some 64 Withered 
DOWN 
1 Hood's heater 2 End at 3 The Rhine, to 
Rocco 4 Pretends 5 Velleity 6 Made amends 7 "Candid 
Camera" name 8 M.A. Rinehart book 9 Ostentatious scholars 10Summer 
refresher 
11 Castle circler 12 "--Want for Christmas ..." :Jo Helicopter part 44 Clear the 51 Defeat soundly channel
16 Common abbr. 31 Margin directive 52"-No 21 He directed to a printer 45 File-cabinet Angels," 1955 
movie

"The Odd 32 Fling item Couple" 53 Infrequent
36 Miller's product 48 Gear tooth 
22 Succeed 54 Mizar or 
37 Nandu's 49 Fouls up Procyon
25 Actor Brian from look-alike Bayonne 50 Security 58 Give the 
38 Sit-ins, e.g. 

concern once-over 40 Covered 26Cfothe 
27 Deprive of passagewayscourage 
Answers to any three clu.es in this 28 Lap dog, for 41 Jewish month puzzle are available by touch-tone short 43 Rich Italian ice phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ft each 29 Insect stage cream minute). 
' ' 

3 p.m. Presentation: Introduction to Resume Expert in the Career and Placement Conference lloom. 
7 p.m. Presentation/ Reception for all Finance, Marketing, Management, Economics, and MBA students Interested in discovering career opportunities with Conoco, Inc. in the Alumni room, Morris Inn. 
7 p.m. Film, "Grand Illusion" Snite Museum. 
7 p.m. and 9 p.m. Film: "Crimes of the Heart," in the Science Lecture Hall. Part of the PC Fall Film Series. 
9 p.m. Film, "Scarface" (1932 version), Snite Museum. 
LECTURES 
Monday 

7:30 p.m. "Brooklyn Bridges." Delivered by Dr. Tom Parisi in O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Part of the Life of the Mind lecture series. 
Tuesday 

12:30 p.m. "A Complex Web: State-Agricultural Bourgeoisie Relations in Revolutionary Nicaragua (1979-1990)," at room C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Delivered by Rose Spalding, Faculty Fellow, Kellogg Institute. 
MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Tortilla soup French dip Smoked thuringer Roast loin of pork Fish boats Cheese & veg. strata Pasta primavera Dell bar 




"ENTERTAINING SUSPENSE THRILLER:' 
-Ylnconl Conby. NEW YORK TIMES 
"A rattlingly line psychological thriller:• 
-S~toto Bonoon LOS ANGELES TIMES 





bad influence 
~.~~· Sept 


s8pt. 1 7 &1Bth 8& 1 0 p m Corroll ~ 1 
LIFE OF THE MIND 
ThomlJs PlJri si O'Leughl in Auditorium 7:30p.m.
September 16 

CLUO TUESDAY •

Andrew Cutrofello Haggar Terrace 
9:30p.m. September 17 
.. 








Sports 
page 16 Monday, September 16, 1991 


Wolverines overpower Irish 24-14; Howard's two touchdowns burn ND 
By RENE FERRAN the Irish a golden opportunity to win the game at all was to seize the momentum. amazing in itself.
Associate Sports Editor 
But three plays later, the op­"We got beat by a better
Notre Dame's 14-game win 
portunity was lost, setting the football team,~ Holtz said. "Westreak against Big 10 opponents stage for Howard's dramatics. · had to play a perfect game andcame skidding to a halt about "We couldn't ever get enough didn't, (while) Michigan playedthe same time that Michigan momentum," said Irish quar­about as perfect a footballsenior split end Desmond terback Rick Mirer (13-for-25, game as could be played. 
Howard did in the back of the 
234 yards, 2 TO, 1 int). "We "(But) I'm proud of our team.
Wolverine end zone. 
weren't able to keep our de­They had every reason to foldHoward's 25-yard diving catch fense off the field." and they didn't. They reallyon a fourth-and-inches sealed Indeed, Michigan owned the hung in there."
third-ranked Michigan's 24-14 
ball for over 40 minutes of the The day did not start off well victory over the seventh-ranked game, gaining 26 first downs to for Notre Dame. On its secondIrish. 
just 14 for Notre Dame. The play from scrimmage, Mirer
"That fourth-and-one was Wolverines rushed for 233 guessed wrong on Lakecritical," said Notre Dame yards and quarterback Elvis Dawson's route, and instead
coach Lou Holtz after the game. 
Grbac set a Michigan school threw right into the waiting
"If they don't pick it up, 
record for passing efficiency, arms of Wolverine cornerbackanything can happen. It really completing 20 of 22 passes for Lance Dottin at the 50. Dottinbroke our backs." 
195 yards. returned the ball to the IrishHoward's heroics came only "I was pleased with how we 42.
one series after the Irish stuffed 
controlled the ball," Michigan Michigan accepted the gift andanother Michigan fourth-down coach Gary Moeller said. "They marched 3 7 yards before
chance. Late in the third 
(Notre Dame) forced a posses­stalling at the five-yard line.
quarter, Troy Ridgley broke 
sion passing scheme by playing J.D. Carlson booted a 23-yardthrough and stopped Wolverine us a little deeper in the sec­field goal, and before anyonetailback Ricky Powers behind ondary." had settled into their seats, thethe line of scrimmage at the Thus, the fact that the Irish
Notre Dame 35-yard line, giving see IRISH/ page 12
were in a position near the end 
'The Catch' marks end of Irish dominance over UM 


The touchdown five and six yard routes. that broke the In fact, Grbac completed so many passes to the back of the Irish flats that he rarely looked further downfield. The was one that Michigan quarterback set a single-game comple­probably should tion percentage record, connecting on 20 of 22 have never passes for 90.9%. happened. Grbac pump-faked, freezing the linebackers, 

Not on fourth except for one. DuBose was on a blitz to the down and a foot. outside and had a clear shot at Grbac. Not with 9:02 "I had (Grbac) in my sights," s.aid DuBose. "I got remaining in the tripped up and I couldn't get there." game and The replay showed that perhaps luck had
Rich Kurz 

Michigan on the switched sides. The player who tripped DuBose 
Associate Sports Editor 

Irish 25-yard line. was fullback Bernie Legette, but ironically,----------------------Not when Legette wasn't even attempting to block DuBose. Michigan's line was successful in giving the The fullback was stepping up to the outside to Wolverine running backs a hole. And it certainly, block the outside rusher, leaving a hole for the never, ever would have happened had Bo Notre Dame backer to slip through, but DuBose's Schembechler been the Michigan coach. foot hit the back of Legette's leg, upending 
Yet it did happen. The play started innocently DuBose and preventing him from disrupting the enough. The Wolverines had two tight ends in the play. game and two running backs in the backfield, When the Wolverine QB actually threw the ball, with only one wide out, Desmond "Magic" he had only one possible target-Howard, Howard. Michigan's self-proclaimed answer to "Rocket" 
"At first I thought they'd run the ball," said Ismail. Howard had already proved his wortli on linebacker Demetrius DuBose, and the Irish were the day, running a reverse in for a 29-yard touch­lined up to prevent a Michigan surge, with five down and forcing the Irish to kick away from downlinemen on the line of scrimmage. him. ' 
But Wolverine quarterback Elvis Grbac stepped "We were in the right defense for it," said Notre off the line prepared to throw the ball, and Dame coach Lou Holtz. "We showed man and looked immediately towards the right sideline, went into zone. All the defender has to do is play where he had enjoyed plenty of success throwing the ball." see CATCH/ page 11 
Men's soccer falls to Saint Louis, 2-0 
blasting two shots off the in the first half. Forward Mike crossbar in the early going to Byrne iced the game for the 3­
By JASON KELLY 
get the Billikens' attention. 0-1 Billikens in the second half, 
Sports Writer 
Meyer led Notre Dame's seven scoring off his own rebound 7 4 shot attack with four attempts minutes into the game. 
A standing-room-only crowd overall. Saint Louis' freshmanof 2,800 filled the Billiken goalie Shaun Fogarty survived Notre Dame's inexperienceSports Center in Saint Louis 

the early Irish flurry to earn his has shown in the season'sFriday night to see Saint Louis' second straight shutout. opening two games, but so has12th-ranked men's soccer team the. talent that the young teamdefeat Notre Dame 2-0. The 
"We had our chances early possesses. Berticelli was
Irish haven't had much success 
and things just didn't go our encouraged by his team's playagainst the Billikens in the past, way," said second year Irish this weekend against one of the losing seven of nine games, and coach Mike Berticelli, summing nation's best squads. 
this weekend marked their 
up the team's fortunes not onlythird straight loss dating back against Saint Louis, but also in "I'm proud of the way weto early in the 1989 season. 
the 1-0 season~opening loss to played against a top team in Loyola. their place," he said. "We're aWith seven starters returning very young team, our time willfrom last year's 18-5-2 squad, The Irish, now 0-2, also put come."
the Billikens were exp~cted to 
together an impressive
.. be a national power once again defensive showing against the Hopefully, that time will bethis year, and they supported 
explosive Billikens. Freshman this week, as the Irish hosttheir press clippings by shutting goalkeeper Bert Bader led the Central Michigan on Wednesdaydown a relentless Notre Dame defensive stand, stopping 11 of and Michigan State on Friday to squad. 
23 shots on goal. begin a four game home stand. Seventh-ranked Evansville andDespite being shut out for the The rookie couldn't stop every 14th-ranked Indiana will alsosecond consecutive game, the attack, however, as Saint Louis visit South Bend during theIrish once again proved to be a midfielder Mike Sorber scored home stand, giving the Irish potent offensive threat, with on an assist from forward Brian even more experience againstsenior captain Kenyon Meyer McBride at the 23 minute mark the nation's best. 
Irish runners outdistance Hoyas 
Georgetown, a team ranked in 
the top twenty. By Jennifer Manen "It was a successful meet," Sports Writer said Piane. "Our young fresh­
men competed like seasoned 
It was a repeat performance veterans. Cowan, Ruder, and for the Notre Dame men's Meloro did an excellent job." cross country team as they de­feated the Georgetown Hoyas Another freshmen, Nate for the fifth straight year. Ruder, finished sixth behind 
Led by junior John Coyle and Hoya Andy Heily. Senior Kevin sophomore Mike McWilliams, Keegan(9th) and junior Nick the Irish won the annual dual Radkewich(lOth) rounded off meet 24-33. the top ten for Notre Dame. 
Georgetown dictated the For the freshmen, the meet pace for the first two miles was an eye opener. with Steve Holman taking the "I'm still in shock," said lead. The Irish pack stayed Cowan who finished fourth. "It together for the first half of the was very different from high race, but splintered near the school." Facing a higher end. caliber of runners than they 
were used to, Cowan and 
Coyle fmished second behind Ruder ran together and pulled Holman and posted the best each other along. They also time for the Irish with a looked to the older runners for 
25:33.82. Not far behind was guidance. McWilliams and freshmen John "I tried to keep on the heels Cowan who finished third and of McWilliams, Radkewich, fourth respectively. Coyle, and Pat Kearns," said 
Notre Dame coach Joe Piane Cowan. "They know what they was pleased with the way his are doing and if I can follow team performed against them, I'll improve." 





