
VOL. XXIII NO. 81 
TUESDAY JANUARY 29 1991 
· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Allies re·ect offer to discuss cease fire 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -Aidnd by an inflammatory lnltnr from Iraq, the United Statns and its allies quashed a bid Monday by Third World nations for tlw U.N. Security Council to debate a cease-fire in the Persian Gulf war. 
U.S. Ambassador Thomas PiekHring said a letter from Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz to U.N. Secretary-General .lavinr Perez de Cuellar was "a bombshell in the middle of the council" that blocked discus­simi of peace. 
The letter accused Perez de Cuellar and the Security Council of dirnet responsibility for thn war on Iraq. The council set the .Jan. 15 deadline that ordnrnd Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait or face attack. 
"The letter brought home to all rnmnbers how very far we are from sneing any change of policy in Iraq," said British Ambassador Sir David Hannay. 
"Certainly those who pro­fnssnd sornnthing to have a menting about were rocked 

OPERATION 

DESERT STORM 
back on their heels by the in­temperate language, accusa­tions against the secretary­general and extreme negativism that Iraq has shown," Pickering said, after the council decided in closed session against a public session on the war. 
The letter said Perez de Cuellar and the council "bear responsibility to history and to mankind for the heinous crimes being commited against the no­ble people of Iraq who are lighting for their freedom." 
The letter said that the war was launched "on behalf of the United Nations by the forces of the criminal Zionist-imperialist 

More club funds, assistants says SUFR 
By KATE MANUEL 
News Writer 
Hditor:o; note: This is the last of a three-part series examin­ing the newly-formed campus minority coalition Students United for Respect and their demands ofthe Administration. 
In a statement given to Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs, Students United for Hespect (SUFRJ de­manded additional assistants for the Office of Minority Studnnt Affairs. 
By March 19, SUFH members want to sell progr11ss in the hir­ing of the two assistants previ­ously promised to Kenneth Duq(ans, dirnctor of Minority Studnnt Affairs. They want thnsll assistants to be chosen by and accountable to the minority students with whom the assis­tants will work. rather than the Administration. 
"I have basically been promised two assistants; one has benn guaranteed and an­otht~r has benn promised. We started the hiring process for ono (assistant) in July and it doosn't look like it will come about because of a difference on the top choice of the candi­dates," Durgans said. 
The applicant chosen by mi­nority students was not the ap­plicant chosen by the Administration, and no one has bmm hired as his assistant yet, lw said. 
O'Hara was unavailable for comment on this subject on Monday. 
Durgans said that minority students were concerned be­cause the decision regarding tho hiring of an assistant was taken from the hands of those who would most benefit from it. 
"The input of people in other departments weighs more in hiring (for those departments) than the input from those in Minority Affairs does (in hiring for Minority Affairs)," he said. 
While he himself administers the funding for Minority Affairs, the allotment of funds to Minority Affairs is done by the Office of Student Affairs, Durgans said. 
Club funding 
The final of SUFH's demands asked that ethnic organiza­tions, all of which considered together are receiving less money than the Glee Club, be budgeted more money next year. 
SUFH said that the increasing population of minority students on campus, as well as the in­creasing number of minority students becoming involved in ethnic organizations, necessi­tates such a funding increase. 
Student Body President Rob Pasin said it is possible that all of the ethnic organizations re­ceive less money than the Glee Club; however, the Glee Club is not funded out of the student activities fee and it is, thus. not a club whose finances are un­der the control of student gov­ernment. 
"The Glee Club is not funded out of the student activity fee so it is technically not a club in terms of student organiza­tions," he said. 
The student activity fee, which is charged to every stu­dent, raises about $400,000. Eighty percent of this money goes to Student Government, the Student Union Board, the various class offices, Hall Presidents' Council, and Judicial Board, Pasin said. 
The 20 percent of the student activity fee total that goes to clubs provides $80,000, he said. "And of the total amount, 
see SUFR/ page 6 
• 
Saddam interview I page 7 

• 
missile attack I page 7 

• 
Attack on West Bank I page 7 

• 
Strategical maps I page 7 


alliance on civilian economic, humanitarian, medical, cultural and religious targets." 
Pere de Cuellar declined to comment on the letter. U.N. of­ficials said he had not decided whether to reply. 
The letter said more than 320 Iraqis were killed and nearly 400 wounded by allied air strikes upon civilian, cultural and religious sites from Jan. 17 to 22. 
The U.S. and its allies have said they do not target reli­gious, cultural, medical and other sites. They have admitted civilians die in the bombings but also claim strategic sites 
JPW sign ups 

are sometimes masked as civil­ian industries. U.S. officials said a bombed baby formula factory contained a biological warfare research center. 
After the closed consulta­tions, many council members said that without any signal from Iraq that it would with­draw from Kuwait they but had no intention of rushing toward a cease-fire that could allow Iraq to rearm. 
Yemen's Ambassador Abdalla Saleh Al-Ashtal, who had pushed for an early public ses­sion, was disappointed and blamed the United States and its allies for blocking the will of the council. 
"We believe there must be a pause, a cease-fire, an attempt for solution," he said. 
The Security Council resolu­tion authorizing force did not specify military action, he said, and other diplomatic means and sanctions are available. 
Cuban Ambassador Ricardo Alarcon said Cuba and Yemen had pushed for a public meet­ing, along with non-council North African states. Council members Austria, Ecuador and India also sought a strict inter­pretation of council rules of procedure to call a meeting, the Cuban envoy said. 
Soviet Ambassador Yuliy Vorontsov, who also is Soviet deputy foreign minister, told reporters his government had "no differences" at this time with the United States over conduct of the war. 
"We are not fighting in this war," he said. "So we are not in any position to criticize others." 
He said the U.N. resolution authorizing force to drive Iraq from Kuwait was very broad and flexible. 
The council authorized use of force Nov. 29, but the makeup of the council changed Jan. 1. Some new members, like India and Zimbabwe, have reserva­tions about the allied military action. 
TheObserver/E.G.Bailey 


Juniors form a line around computer terminals in order to sign up for seating at each of the Junior Parents Weekend meals. 
Senate discusses harassment policy 

By CLAIRE ROBINSON 
News Writer 
Members of the Student Senate questioned the unifor­mity and effectiveness of the Discriminatory Harassment policy which is currently being proposed by an ad hoc commit­tee of the Provost's Office. 
In a letter to Student Body President Rob Pasin, Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara stated that "because of the significance of the proposal, the Officers of the University believe that it should be subject to full discussion by a broad cross-section of the University community." For this reason, she submitted it to the Senate. 
The policy prohibits "comments, epithets, or other expressive behavior or physical conduct which demean the race, sex, religion, color, creed, disability, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, or age of the individual or individuals, and which create an intimidat­ing, hostile or demeaning envi­ronment for education, univer­sity related work or other uni­versity-authorized activity." 

The policy also outlines re­porting and disciplinary proce­dures to be followed in an inci­dent of discriminatory harass­ment. 
Members of the Senate ex­pressed a concern that the var­ious authorities which the pol­icy makes responsible for dif­ferent instances of discrimina­tory harassment will create too much "red tape," rendering unaffective the efforts of stu­dents to report problems. 
A suggestion to create a new department dealing specifically with discriminatory harassment issues was discussed. The department would be responsi­ble for disciplinary procedures and policy evaluation. Other members of the Senate ques­tioned the authority this type of department would have over already existing administration departments. 
The Senate, unable to reach any decisive conclusion about the proposal, decided to invite Professor O'Hara or the chair­person of the Provost commit­tee to attend the next Senate meeting to address questions concerning the proposal. 
Mike Gaffney announced that the administration will be ex­perimenting with a new policy for NotreDame-Saint Mary's cross-registration this spring. 
see SENATE I page 5 

page 2 Tuesday, January 29, 1991
The Observer 
FORECAST:ctoudy
INSIDE COLUMN 





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
today with an 80 percent chance of snow and highs in the upper 20's. Lows tonight of 1 0 to 15. Partly cloudy tomorrow with highs in the low 20's. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Athens 52 46 Atlanta 55 46 Boston 6 28 Baghdad 43 31 Chicago 32 14 Dallas-Ft. Worth 72 36 Denver 43 20 Detroit 32 12 Honolulu 82 71 Houston 68 58 
Indianapolis 34 6 London 1 37 Los Angeles 64 49 
Madrid 54 34 Miam1 Beach 80 75 Moscow -2 -8 New York 42 41 
Pans 30 28 
Philadelphia 44 36 
Portland, Ore 47 37 
Rome 57 30 
St. Louis 38 23 
San Franc1sco 55 47 South Bend 36 14 Tokyo 46 37 Wash1ngton,D.C. 48 40 

WORLD Protestant militia claims killing 
• BELFAST -An outlawed Protestant paramilitary group claimed responsibility Monday for shooting to death a man in front of his five children. The Ulster Freedom Fighters said Sean Rafferty, 44, was killed Sunday night because he was "deeply involved with the Provisional IRA in north Belfast." But neighbors said Rafferty, a construction worker, was unconnected with Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. The tribunal did not re­lease any final results from Sunday's voting. It said turnout appeared to be low. The other posts in the 67­seat assembly were filled according to results of 1989 elections, which Noriega had annulled. New elections were held for the nine seats because the 1989 results for the seats weren't clear. 
NATIONAL 

The 'Politically Correct' mean business 
My friend Jae didn't mean to be "sexist" when he quoted the Koran in a Theology paper. But when Jae read the professor's comments, he saw that his professor had 


thought so and, thus, Monica Yant lowered his grade. He Associate News didn't understand. Editor The Harvard sophomore ..as reprimttfl:cl:ecl: for failing to be Politically Correct, a concept which brings with it a new era of campus policing that has students, professors-and even college newspapers-tip-toeing around any issue that could become an issue. Newsweek calls it "an experiment of sorts ... to eliminate prejudice, not just the petty sort that shows up on sophomore dorm walls, but the grand prejudice that has ruled American universities since their founding: that the intellectual tradition of Western Europe occupies the central place in the history o civilization." The Politically Correct aim to trounce Western Civ. classes in favor of mandatory requirements for all students in racial, gender and sexual studies. The Politically Correct do more than refraining from slandering minorities. They must bend over backwards to acknowledge-and celebrate-their existence. They know the crucial difference between calling someone a "colored person" and "person of color," and lest we forget about the "womanfwomyn" thing. "No one has suggested renaming the sexes," Newsweek reported, "just the way they're spelled. Speaking of speaking, the Politically Correct avoid even talking in closed circles. (The "thought police" at the University of Connecticut recently issued an edict that banned "inappropriately directed laughter" and "conspicuous exclusion of students from conversations.") It seems clear that the Politically Correct mean business. They assert that all minorities have been denied an equal education BECAUSE of the traditionally unfavorable environment. So, of course, they have every reason to punish those who fail to agree. (A student at UConn was kicked off campus for having a sign referring to "homos" on her dorm door.) But is it possible to take things too far? At Smith College, there are ten different ways to oppress someone by passing a judgement on them, including "lookism," a crime of failing to acknowledge someone's existence. And at Duke, one professor noted that about one o every seven books in the political science section of the bookstore had "Marx" in the title. (Karl, not Richard.) Perhaps there's a small concession in all of this-a minute one at that: I have yet to experience this Neo-McCarthyism at Notre Dame. Too bad students like Jae can't say the same. 
-Ih--e-0-bs-... e~~er-­
-. --A:=Y~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219)-239-7471 
Today's  Staff:  
News  Sports  
BradGalko  Dave Me Mahon  
Mike Owen  Scoreboard:  
Rolando DeAguiar  
Accent  
Michael Krause  Production  
Wendy Cunningham  
Karen Newlove  

Systems Gil Gomez 
Patrick Barth 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


a?y pa~amilitary or political group. They be~ieved _he was Senators urge stronger fuel standards killed simpl_y because he was Ro?Ian Catholic. Poh~e late • WASHINGION _ L · l ron to stiffen fuel effi-
Monday said they were searchmg for three assailants, . egis. a I . d d . who reportedly drove away the shooting scene and set the ciency standards for automobiles was re-!ntro _uce m car ablaze in the nearby Protestant-dominated Shankill the Sen~te on Monday, and sponsors _predicted It would district pass this year because of the Persmn Gulf war and 
· • . . . heightened concern over U.S. reliance on imported oil. A 
Panamaman Opposition wms seats measure authored by Sens. Richard Bryan, D-Nev., and 
• PANAMA CITY -Opposition candidates appear Slade Gorton, R-Wash., would require a 20 percent im­to have, won_ six of nine races for vacan.t seats ~n provement in fuel efficiency of automobiles manufa~tured Panamas NatiOnal Assembly, the Electoral Tnbunal said in 1996 and a 40 percent boost in the year 2001. If we Monday.The other three seats were taken by the alliance can make smart bombs, we can make smart cars," Sen. led by President Guillermo Endara, who took office when Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., one of 35 co-sponsors said. the United States invaded in December 1989 and ousted 
OF INTEREST 
• 
JUNIORS WHO HAVE NOT yet arranged seating for JPW dinner and brunch should go to the CCE today be­tween 2 p.m. and 10 p.m. with the ID's of their fellow table members. 

• 
"EFFECTIVE INTERVIEWING WORKSHOP" will be held this afternoon in the Hesburgh Library Lounge from 4-5 p.m. The workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked during an interview and is open to students of any major. 

• 
ISO'S INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL will be held at Washington Hall, February 8th and 9th. If interested in participating or helping out in the preparations please come tonight at 7 p.m. to the organizational meeting in the ISO Lounge (2nd Floor LaFortune) or contact Etienne 273-1686 or leave message in ISO of­fice LaFortune. 

• 
APPALACHIA, WASHINGTON, AND CHICAGO Cultural Diversity Mid-Semester Break Seminars are being offered March 9-16. For information come to the 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/JANUARY 28, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINOEX 
141.27 Million 183.38 • 0.74 

S&P COMPOSITE 

336.07 • 1.29 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

2654.46 • 4.95 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD t $2.60 to $ 376.1 0/oz. SILVER • 3.4¢ to$ 3.817/oz. 
esc tonight 7-7:30 p.m., 7:30-8 p.m., and 8-8:30 p.m., respectively. 
• VICE PRESIDENT OF STUDENT AFFAIRS Patricia O'Hara will meet with the elected officers of officially recognized minority student organizations today at 7:30 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune, not the Hayes-Healy auditorium as previously stated. 
• ND/SMC SKI CLUB will hold a meting where sign-ups and non-refundable deposits will be taken for the Spring Break trip to Summit County, CO. on Tues. Jan. 29 at 8 
p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Building. Questions call Mike 271-8901 or Bob 283-3588. 
• 
ANY STUDENT INTERESTED IN GOING to the Student Environmental Action Coalition (SEAC) regional conference Feb. 1-3 should contact Amy Jenista at 283­1343 for information by Wednesday Jan. 30. 

• 
IF YOU SIGNED UP FOR WEDNESDAY LUNCH fast at South Dining Hall last Thursday at dinner or Friday at lunch, please call 283-1129 by tonight, and leave name and I.D. #. We lost one sign-up sheet. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1850: Henry Clay introduced in the Senate a compromise bill on slavery which included the admission of California into the Union as a free state. 

• 
In 1979: President Carter formally welcomed Chinese Vice 

Premier Deng Xiaoping to the White House, following the estab­lishment of diplomatic relations. 

• 
In 1990: Former Exxon Valdez skipper Joseph Hazelwood went on trial in Anchorage, Alaska, on charges stemming from the nation's worst oil spill. 

• 
Ten years ago: In his first nationally broadcast news con­ference since taking office, President Reagan said he was "certainly not thinking of revenge" against Iran for the hostage ordeal, but 


neither did he see a reconciliation with the Tehran government. 

Tuesday, January 29, 1991 The Observer page3 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Jan. 30. For further information, call 239-5303. 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* 
*C. B. S. 
Ecumenical Bible Study Tuesday, Jan. 29, 1991 and every Tuesday 
lvleetings: 7:00 P.M. 
•

one hour sessions (bring your own Bible)
• 
m the Conference Room 
.of Campus Ministry Badin Hall 
Directed by: Fr. Al D'Alonzo, C.S.C. For additional information call: 
239-5242 or 239-5955 
Graduate Students, Undergraduate International Students and 
Members of the Notre Dame Family : invited to attend •
• 
.../ 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
Students,! 
: 



NO's date rape policy revised 
By SIOBHAN McCARTHY News Writer 
Patricia O'Hara, vice presi­dent of Student Affairs, offi­cially agreed Monday to draft a more explicit policy towards date rape in du Lac in accor­dance with a recent resolution passed by the Campus Life Council. 
Specific revisions will address "better publicizing (of) avail­able counseling services" and "encouraging victims to imme­diately report incidents of sex­ual assault," according to a let­ter written by O'Hara. 
Resolution 909105 was writ­ten and presented in 1990 by 

Mock trial team excels in competition 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN News Writer 

The jury came back with sev­eral favorable verdicts after the Notre Dame Mock Trial Association presented their case at the Dayton Invitational Tournament, in Dayton, Ohio this past weekend. 
Competing against fourteen other teams, sixteen of Notre Dame's Association members claimed second and third place victories. 
The Mock Trial Association is in its second year with Mike Moreland as its president. The organization consists of nearly 

Julian Bond will speak at Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
Civil rights activist Julian Bond will give a lecture entitled "Beyond the Dream" Thursday (Jan. 31) at 8 p.m. in the University of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Library auditorium. 
In 1960, when he was twenty years old, Bond was one of the several hundred students in the South who joined to form the Student Nonviolent Coordination Committee (SNCC). During the sit-ins, Freedom Rides and voter regis­tration campaigns in the rural South of the 1960's, SNCC be­came nationally known, as did Bond, who served as the orga-

Spring Break 
1991 1 .•:·1-it~~~l 
. 
Cancun, Mexico 
rr.~m: $469 ~~;hp;~son 

,~\~\\\v·
:;~;.,,... Includes: 
• 7 nights at one oi-Cnncun'a finest 
resort proportios 
• 
Roundtrip air/hotel transfers 

• 
FREE cover charges daily at Cancun's hottest nightclubs 

• 
Special discounts (2 for 1 or better) at Cancun's great food and drink establishments 

• 
FREE Discount Fun Book 

• 
On· island tour directors 

• 
15% resort taxes 


Optional Activities: 
• 
Chichen·ltza/Tutum Mayan Ruin sightseeing tours 

• 
Diving/Snorkeling in Cozumel 

• 
Party Cruise to Isla Muiercs, featuring Reggae Bands ··'lit, 

• 
Motorcycle, Moped, Jet Skis, 'i!J;iJ! Windsurfer rentals and morel ·iij 


.SPACE LIMITED! CALL NOW!


TORE STEEN 289-3336 REGGIE LEACH ~;_ 277-7684 ..
0
(JJ! 

Lisa Bostwick, district II stu­dent senator. "I am very pleased with Professor O'Hara's response. I think that she will sincerely and correctly address the issue and I am proud that the Campus Life Council has been able to put some input into the administration decision making," Bostwick said. 
"This is an issue of paramount concern. I'm glad that the sexual harassment policy will be improved this summer," added Rob Pasin, student body president. 
"The fact that victims often choose different channels to report acquaintance rape, that such reports may or may not be close in time to the attack, that 
forty members who spent their first semester of this year preparing their case for three tournaments being held this spring. 
The fictitious case scenario set for this year involves the in­vasion of privacy of a college gymnast who has A.I.D.S. Under the direction of two third-year law students, Tina Cabreza and Jenny Hershfeld, the team has worked two hours every evening since this semester began, completing their research and perfecting the style and technique in which they present their assigned case. 
nization's communications di­rector. 
In 1965, a court-ordered reapportionment of the Georgia state legislature resulted in a special election during which Bond was elected to a one-year term in the Georgia House of Representatives. Members of the House voted not to seat him because of his controversial opposition to the war in Vietnam. 
In 1966, Bond won a second election to fill his vacant seat, and again the Georgia House voted to bar him from member­ship. He won a third election, this time for a two-year term, in November, 1966. A month later, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously ruled that the Georgia House had violated Bond's rights by refusing him his seat. 
COUNSELINE 

Volunteers Wanted!!! 
************* 
:>:-.::::: 

We'll begin operating again soon. We still have 2 hour shift!i to fill. So if... 
-Your want to help prov1de a 
valuable commun1ty serv1ce to 
NDSMC -You can spare just a couple of hours 
of easy volunteer work in a nice study 
environment (the number and manner 
of handling calls is rarely demanding) 
-Your cOuld use something extra to 
look nice on your resume or 
application to grad school (listening, 
psych majors?) 

... Then attend our organizational/training meeting on Thursday, Jan. 31, at 6:30 pm in Room 300 of the University Counseling Center. 
publication to the community may need to be balanced against a victim's right or re­quest for confidentiality, and that confidentiality may be tied to a victim's willingness to come forward, all coalesce to make public notification a question that requires thought and study," said O'Hara. 
"We are not alone in trying to discern the answer to this diffi­cult question. The issue of date rape is receiving national atten­tion among university adminis­trators and university counsel," said O'Hara. 
"We will be studying this is­sue in the months ahead in connection with our revision of duLac," added O'Hara. 
According to Moreland, this weekend's victories leave the team "hopeful" to place higher in the upcoming regional and national competitions. Two of the Mock Trial Association's members, David Barter and Hollye Harrington, received outstanding recognition as at­torneys at the Dayton competi­tion. 

Moreland said that sometime in the next few weeks there will be dress rehearsals that will be open to the public. He hopes that anyone who would be in­terested in the Association will join the team next semester. 
He was elected to the Georgia Senate in 1974 and held his seat there until 1987. By the time Bond's tenure in state government ended, he had served four terms in the House and six in the Senate, having been elected to public office more times than any other black Georgian in history. 
At present, Bond is a visiting professor at Harvard. Essays, poems and articles by him have been published in a variety of scholarly and popular journals, and he is a frequent guest on television and radio programs. 
The lecture is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, the Student Government, the Institute for International Peace Studies, the Office of Minority Student Affairs, and the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's chapter of the NAACP. 
The Observer

page 4 Tuesday,Janua~29, 1991 
Symptoms of eating· disorders prevalent at Notre Dame 

By KELLY DERRICK 
News Writer 

Forty-six percent of women students at Notre Dame who responded to a 1988 survey said they had experienced some symptoms of an eating disorder. 
Results such as this lead Rita Donley, assistant director of University Counseling Services, to the conclusion that eating disorders are more prevalent on college c(l.mpuses than many realize. 
Donley spoke yesterday on the topic of "How to Help a Friend with an Eating Disorder." She outlined causes, symptoms, and ways to help people who may have an eating disorder. 
Social consciousness plays a big role in contributing to eat­ing disorders, according to Donley. The concept of the "Freshmen 15," dating , and the constant pressure of peers all contribute to the formation of eating disorders. When the pressure becomes extreme, Donley said, people may feel a loss of self esteem and identity and turn to either excessive overeating and/or starvation. 
In the spring of 1988 the Counseling Center sent out 2229 surveys (975 responded) to women at ND. While forty­six percent of the women who responded had experienced some symptoms of an eating disorder, less than one percent said they were anorexic. Seven percent of those responding claimed to be bulimic. 
Eighty-seven percent of the respondents who claimed to have a "serious" eating disor­der said they had not sought help for their problems. 
The roots of eating disorders stem from men, women, and media pressures, according to Donley. She said women feel constantly threatened by pretty faces on magazine covers with the classic slender figure, as well as by society's stereotyping thin women as beautiful women. 
Eating disorders are not con­fined to women. Men may feel that sports or jobs place ex­tremely high physical appear­ance demands on them, according to Donley. 
Two diseases commonly as­sociated with eating disorders are Anorexia Nervosa and Bulimia. Anorexia is distin­guished from Bulimia by the fact that anorexics starve themselves, while bulimics overeat and purge. Common symptoms of anorexia include: 
•obsessive concern with diet­ing and exercise accompanied by an intense fear of being fat or gaining weight; 
•rigid 
and ritualistic behavior patterns around food or exer­cise; 

•significant 
weight loss or low body weight; 


•loss of sexual drive and/or cessation of menstrual period in women; loss of sexual drive and/or impotence in men. 
Symptoms of bulimia may in­clude compulsive consumption of what the individual considers to be too much food followed by one or more of the following forms of purging: self-induced vomiting, laxative abuse, di­uretic abuse, fasting, excessive exercise, and abuse of Epicap Syrup, a vomit-inducing medi­cation usually prescribed for patients who have taken in some form of poison. 
Recognizing and identifying these symptoms is a step to­ward helping someone with an eating disorder. The most im­portant thing a person can do to help a friend with an eating disorder is to encourage that person to acknowledge the problem and seek professional help, Donley said. 
More often than not people will deny that they may have a problem, perhaps even display­ing hostile behavior, she said. They may refuse to get help. In these instances, she does not recommend pushing them or monitoring their eating habits. 

Donley encourages positive reinforcement, without focusing on physical appearance. It is important for people with eating disorders to realize that self-worth is internal, not ex­ternal. 
It may often take some sort of trauma with the disease, such as passing out, before people with eating disorders realize that a problem exists. They may then be willing to ac­knowledge the problem and seek professional help, she said. 
Donley will be available in the Counseling Center for five con­secutive weeks, beginning Feb. 13 at 4:45 p.m., for anyone who needs advise in handling the problems with a friend who may have an eating disorder. 
Campus Ministry and You 

0MPUS 


MINISTRY 

POPE'S PRAYER FOR PEACE 
0 God of our fathers and mothers, 





Candlemas
great and merciful, Lord of peace and of life, Creator of all, You whose designs are for peace and not for affliction, 
Feast of the Presentation condemn wars of the Lord and devastate the pride of the violent. You sent your son Jesus· 
to proclaim peace to those near and far, Saturday, February 2nd, 1991 to reunite people of all races and descent 11:30am Mass in a single family. Sacred Heart Church Hear the unanimous cry of your children, the sorrowful entreaty of all humanity: The assembly is invited to bring candles from 
Never again war, adventure without return; their homes to the church, where they will be blessed for the new year.Never again war, spiral of struggle and violence; The blessing of candles and procession ;vill begin Never this war in the Persian Gulf, at-the Lady Chapel. threat to your creatures 
in the sky, on earth and in the sea. In communion with Mary, the Mother of Jesus, We continue to implore you: Speak to the hearts of those in charge of the destiny of peoples; Stop the logic of retaliation and revenge; Suggest with your Spirit new solutions, Generous and honorable gestures, Spaces for dialogue and patient waiting, Which are more fruitful than rushed deadlines of war. Days of peace. No war ever again. Amen. 
John Paul II 
Rev. William Simmons, C.S.C., Presider 
Sacred music: the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
• 
We remember in prayer our deceased family members 
Zora, mother of Chris Zorich Patricia, mother of Lori Ciccone Sharon, mother of Peter Caulfield Rick, brother of Kenneth Visser 

------------------------------------------~----­
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Kof C to
Affirmative action successful for psych dept. 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Typically at Notre Dame it is Meara said. women and minorities, Loux 

hand out 
women and minorities who are Seeking to eradicate negative said.
Assistant News Editor 
not adequately represented, perceptions about affirmative Notre Dame has a recruiting Meara said. action programs, the psychol­advantage over many other 

flag pins 
For the Notre Dame psychol­The goal of affirmative action ogy department began a more major universities, said Meara. ogy department, 'affirmative is to ensure diversity. "We rigorous program for assessing Throughout the country, male 
Special to The Observer 
action' is more than just a value diversity as a goal be­problems and goals of af­professors make on the average 
buzz-word. 
Since the mid-1980s, the psy­chology department has been particularly active and success­ful in recruiting women and minorities for teaching posi­tions. 
"Our department is commit­ted to affirmative action," said Professor Naomi Meara, chair­person of the psychology de­partment. "We [the psychology department) have a good un­derstanding of what allirmative action means... that all things being equal, you try to hire candidates that are under­represented." 
One such example of an un­derrepresentation in a field is mnn in nursing, cited Meara. 
cause it is better for students .. . it is ethically correct and edu­cationally sound," said Meara. "It is good for male and female students to be taught by both male..and female faculty mem­bers. 
The success of an affirmative action program depends largely on attitude, according to Meara. "Vocabulary is indica­tive of attitude." For example, people often use the terms: 'qualified women' and 'qualified minorities'. When one uses these terms, there is "an assumption that all male candidates are qualified, while all women and minority candidates are not. You do not hear the term 'qualified male'," 
FREE 
SCHOLARSHIP INFORMATION FOR 
STUDENTS WHO NEED 



MONEYFOR COLLEGE 
Every Student is Eligible for Some Type or Financial Aid Regardless or Grades or Parental Income. 
• 
Many scholartihips are given to atudentli based on their academic intareats career plans. family heritage and place of residence. 

• 
There'a money available for students who have been newspaper carriers grocery clerks, cheerleaders. non-sraokers. . etc. 

• 
Resulls GUARANTEED 


CALL 
1·800-542-5174 

ANYTIME 

Finance Club Very important meeting 
to discuss upcoming elections, Finance Forum, and a social event.. Wed, Jan 30 6:30 PM Rm 124 Hayes-Healy Questions? Call Derek at 234-3356. 
firmative action in 1984-85 when the department held a special Committee on Women. As a result of these earlier ac­tions, the department currently has a female chair and seven out of 21 filled teaching posi­tions are women, said Meara. 
Now, the department is con­cerned with retaining women and minorities once they have become members of the de­partment as well as having more women and minorities in upper-level positions, according to Meara. 
The psychology department has received much support from University President Father Edward Malloy and Dean Michael Loux of the College of Arts and Letters, ac­cording to Meara. "We are ac­knowledging our shortcomings and trying to present our strengths and opportunities," she added. 
According to Loux, within the College of Arts and Letters, the number of faculty members who are women and minorities varies from department to de­partment. The psychology de­partment has been one of the more successful in recruiting $2,000 per year more than their female counterparts, but no such disparity exists at Notre Dame, Meara said. 

The greatest attraction for candidates for teaching posi­tions, however, is the caliber of the Notre Dame students, said Meara. Part of the evaluation process for psychology candi­dates even includes opportuni­ties for the candidates to meet and talk with students. 
The combination of these and other factors help make the re­cruiting process easier, accord­ing to Meara. We traditionally have a "highly select" pool of applicants, Meara said. 
"Academically, all of our ap­plicants are qualified." However, "if we do not have the right person-for any reason­we hold a spot [teaching posi­tion] open" and repeat the ap­plication process again, said Meara. 
The University's role in the whole recruitment process is minimal, in that each depart­ment has its own procedure for selecting which candidates will be recommended for hire and that the University usually abides by the recommendations of the department, Meara said. 


American Heart 


Volunteer.
Association 

Tuesday January 29, 1991 @7:30pm 
ffiM Presents: MULTI-MEDIA in a DOS WORLD Montgomery Theater-LaFortune 
Sponsored by DOS Users Group 
•Infonnation regardif'IP' DOS Users Group will also be available. 
The local order of the  
Knights of Columbus will btl  
distributing free American  
flag lapel pins in support of  
U.S. armed forces in the  
Middle East at North and  
South Dining Halls during  
lunch on Tuesday, January  
29, and Wednesday, January  
30.  
This project has been  
initiated to show support for  
U.S. personnel partidpating  
in Operation Desert Storm.  ~  
It is meant to have no  
political connotations, either  1  
in favor or against the war  
in the Persian Gulf, the Bush administration, or any private organization. Rather, the pins are intended to show the  1 1 I 1 I  
commitment of the Knights  
and our community to the  
order's principles of charity,  
unity, fraternity, and patri­ 
otism.  
For more information or  
specific comments, please  
contact the project  
coordinator, Deputy Grand  
Knight David Certo, at 283­ 
1054.  
Senate  
continued from page 1  
Notre Dame students wishing to  
register for Saint Mary's classes  
will be allowed to do so after all  
Saint Mary's students in the  
same graduating class have  
finished registering.  
Notre Dame seniors will be  
given priority over Saint Mary's  
juniors, but not Saint Mary's  
seniors. The same policy will  
apply to Saint Mary's students  
registering at Notre Dame.  
Gaffney said that the admin­ 
istration felt that the exchange  
opportunity was valuable and  
beneficial to both schools, pre­ 
serving the traditionally close  
relationship between them.  
Although Notre Dame stu­ 
dents have been vocal in their  
concerns over this issue,  
Gaffney noted that in fact more  
students from Notre Dame reg­ 
ister for Saint Mary's classes  
than vice-versa, accounting for  
a large percentage discrepancy.  
One member of the Senate  
observed that the concern over  
cross-registration is simply part  
of the larger issue of the  
scarcity of both class spaee and  
professors, which needs to be  
addressed.  

__ t,

American Heart & Association ~ ·· 
"<+'. 


page 6 The Observer Tuesday, January 29, 1991 
THURSDAY, JAN. 24TH "'" 
6 p.m. An employee of WNDU radio station reported receiving suspicious phone calls. 
11 p.m. A resident of Sorin Hall reported that his ski jacket was taken from out$ide of the third floor weight room of the Rockne Memorial. 
FRIDAY, JAN. 25TH 
2:50 a.m. A Notre Dame student was stopped by Notre Dame Security because he was observed driving up to the entrance to St. Mary's road, striking the gate arm causing it to break, and then driving away. 
2:25 p.m. A resident of Alumni Hall reported that he suspected that somaone was illegally making telephone calls on his AT&T credit card. ''' 
3;09 p.m. A Notre Dame employee reported vandalism to a university truck while it was parked outside of the maintenance complex. 
SATURDAY, JAN. 26TH r 
r 
2:21 a.m. A resident of Stanford Hatl reported that his car had been broken into while it was parked in the 02 parking lot. 
~ 
r 
1:48 p.m. A hit and run accident was reported in the B 1 parking lot. 
9:19 p.m. A suspicious person was reported loitering in a hallway of the Morris Inn. The suspect was escorted off campus by Notre Dame Security. 
SUNDAY, JAN. 27 
1:59 a.m. An off campus student reported that her car was broken into while it was parked in the rear area parking lot of the JACC. Several articles were stolen from the back seat of her car. 
3:50a.m. Three Notre Dame students were caught vandalizing university property. They had broken off the wooden gate arms at the entrances to the JACC. 
2 p.m. A visitor to the University of Notre Dame reported that his locked locker had been broken into at the men's locker room of thEI JACC. 



SUFR 
continued from page 1 
ethnic clubs received approxi­mately 20 percent of the budget for clubs," he said. 
The Club Coordination Council budgets the $80,000 among the various clubs on campus according to the fol­lowing general percentages: 
•Academic 
clubs, such as Society of Women Engineers and the Math Club, get 8.88 percent; 

•Athletic 
clubs, such as the Judo and Boxing Clubs, get 


21.69 percent; 
•Social 
service clubs, such as Women United for Justice and Peace, get 20.41 percent; 

•Special 
interests clubs, such as the Keenan Revue and the Model United Nations, get 


SECURITY BEAT Salemi says graduate students are valuable resource 


ICEBERG DEBATES 
By CATHLEEN MCLAUGHLIN News Writer 
Universities should be aware of the strengths and weak­nesses that graduate students possess with regard to teach­ing, said Michael Salemi, pro­fessor of economics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Monday in a lecture on graduate student teaching programs. 
The ability to relate to un­dergraduates is an important skill which most graduate stu­dents have since many only left undergraduate status recently, said Salemi. Graduate students tend to take their teaching as­signments seriously and the high levels of motivation and interest in their subjects are easily transferred to the stu­dents they teach, he said. 
However, he adds, graduate students may become too deeply immersed in their own course work and lose track of what their undergraduates are able to comprehend and actu­ally need to know. Graduate students also have a smaller base of knowledge simply be­cause of their lack of experi­ence, said Salemi. 
"Professors have bigger tool kits," which enable them to give better examples and several different ways of explaining the same concept according to Salemi. 
Research can be used to dis­tinguish yourself, Salemi said of professors, but it is not a substitute for teaching well. He pointed out the several benefits of effective teaching which in­clude personal satisfaction from seeing your students un­derstand a concept, improved communication skills which are important to all fields, and the fact that it does not require a great time commitment to learn how to teach well. 

Salemi's lecture also pro­vided graduate students with a model for departmental teach­
-ing programs which could be utilized at Notre Dame. He stressed the departmental aspect of the program so that graduate students could join other faculty members to cre­ate both a community of schol­ars seeking truth, as well as a community of teachers trying to educate undergraduates. In these training programs, more experienced faculty mem­bers could present an overview of university rules and policies; a brief presentation of how students learn; strategies for planning, writing and grading exams; and some insights into how to promote an active ap­proach to learning in students. Salemi is concerned that un­dergraduates are becoming " Sammy the Sponge and Tilly the Transcriber" rather than participants in a creative process of understanding. The most important parts of a teacher training program, he said, is to find out how to 
evaluate one's own teaching and to create a system to get feedback from others. 
Salemi suggested supplementing student evaluations with video taped classes reviewed by a trained critiquer. The video tapes provide developmental assistance which one cannot get from a hastily written eval­uation. 
Professor Salemi finished the lecture by providing those pre­sent with his idea of the four most valuable teaching princi­ples. First, a student's capacity to learn is the binding con­straint in the classroom. A teacher should decide what knowledge is crucial and con­centrate on getting that across to students through repetition. 
Secondly, through a short ex­periment Salemi proved that "visual stimuli dominates ver­bal stimuli." Students pay more attention to what is written on a blackboard then something you repeat fifty times. In addi­tion, a teacher should try to write in full sentences rather than just using key words. 
A third important point is that motivating students is the only way to make them learn. Enthusiasm and personalized communication will draw stu­dents into a subject a make them want to learn rather than just enduring a class. 
Salemi's last suggestion was to force students to take an active role in their education by asking them questions. 
institution and we will not tol­erate this: we have used University channels and got no response," Price said. 
"We want to see that they are addressing the issues. We could wait from now until ten years from now if we wait to hear from the University," he said. 
SUFR members are confident that the Administration has the ability to meet the nine de­mands of the group by the deadlines the group has pro­posed. 
One SUFR member said that, because the University has said the same things they are saying now and done nothing, it is very hard for minority students to put faith in University promises. 
Faculty, 

Answering students' questions 
with another question is a way 
to get them to delve deeper into 
a subject. 

With tuition rises at most 
schools coming faster than cost 
of living adjustments, both par­
ents and students are demand­
ing that the education received 
is one of quality. If professors 
are only expected to teach two 
to four classes a year due to 
research constraints, said 
Salemi, then the responsibility 
of educating undergraduates 
will be shouldered by graduate 
students. This change would 
not compromise the university's 
academic mission as long as 
they are effectively trained. 
Salemi applauded Notre Dame's 
graduate students' initiative to 
better their teaching skills. 

Salemi's lecture entitled "The 
Role of Graduate Student 
Teaching in University 
Education" was the first of a 
series of five on graduate stu­
dent teaching and research 
sponsored by the Graduate 
Student Union and Office of 
Graduate Studies. 

According to Peter Berg, a 
member of the lecture series' 
planning committee, "The lec­
ture series put its emphasis on 
providing skills for use now and 
later in graduate students' 
careers." Those who attend this 
lecture and those upcoming will 
be better prepared for class­
room teaching and provide a 
greater service to the university 
and its students. 
American Heart Association 


the Boston and Houston Clubs, get 8.92 percent, and; 
•Ethnic clubs, such as the Italian and Japan Clubs and the BCAC, get 19.35 percent. 
The Club Coordination Council was created last year to administer the funding of the various clubs, said Jeff Stark, a member of the Council. 
The Club Council assigns two of its representatives to each of these six broad club divisions, and these representatives meet with the presidents and trea­surers of all the clubs on cam­pus to discuss the amount of funding appropriate to the ac­tivities the club has planned, according to Stark. 
A club that is unhappy with the funding it receives can ap­peal to the Club Council, which has heard about ten such ap­peals this year, said Stark. 

A club which is still unhappy with the amount it receives after appealing to the Club Council can then appeal to the Budget Committee of the Student Senate, said Stark. 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival has scheduled such an appeal for this coming Monday night, said Stark, and it is the first group to have done so this year. 
Robert Price, a SUFR spokesperson, said that the students feel they must be very serious about the deadlines they have given to the University, as they fear the University will not respond without deadline pressure. 
"We want the University to know that we will go as far as needed to get the demands met. We pay tuition to come to this 
th 

The Judges! seminars will be held on January 30 & 31st 12:30-1:30pm in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Center 
Please Come 



OPERATION DESERT STORM
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 page 7 
OIL FACILITIES BLOWN UP TO STOP FLOW OF OIL 
U.S. F-111 bombers firing "smart" bombs blew up oil pipeline complex in Kuwait to stop Iraq from pumping millions of gallons of crude oil into the Persian Gull. 
AI-Ahmadl 
F·111F attack bomber GBU-15 "smart" bomb 
Wingspan: 70ft. Length: 12' 9' 
Lenqth: 73ft. 6in~.,/ Dia~eter: 18' Max1mum speed: .. •• •·· We1ght: 
1.320 mph -· <· 2,5131bs. Range 2,925 miles \
,.,'­
AP/R. Taro, J. Magness 

Patriots successfully fend off another SCUD attack 
HIYAI>II, Saudi Arabia (APl­A salvo of Patriot missiles knoeked out an ineoming Iraqi Srud latP Monday, raining bits of wreckage on a private veg­etable farm on the outskirts of Hiyadh. 
It was the 16th Scud fired toward the Saudi eapital in the 11 days since the war began. All have been intercnpted and destroyed or damaged by the Patriot defense system in its first eombat test. 
Warning sirens wailed just. after 9 p.m. (1 p.m. EST) and minutes latnr. a sonie boom re­verberated across the city as thn Patriots roared from their tubes and chased after the 
Tuesday. January 29 at 7:00 PM Morris Inn-Alumni Room 
If your major is: 
Engineering. MIS. Applied Math. MBA Learn more about career opportunitiesavailable at Procter & Gamble! 
high-flying projectile at super­sonic speed. 
Unlike some previous Scuds whose debris fell in populated Saudi areas, killing one and in­juring about 50 people, the in­terception occurred well away from inhabited areas. 
Police traced the falling wreckage to a hothouse com­plex several miles from the city. The debris knocked holes in some of the glass fiber green­houses where tomatoes and cu­cumbers are grown. Damage was slight and there were no injuries. 
Ibrahim Ayed, manager of the farm, said no workers were present at the time. 

Management Systems Division Pizza Party! 
IRAQ IRAil 
Sea Island oil : tennlnal where 
oil remaining in · the pipeline is 1 still burning 
5MIIa 

SklloMtln 

SCUD missile strikes West Bank 
TEL AVIV, Israel (AP) -Iraq launched its seventh missile at­tack on Israel Monday night, and parts of a Scud rocket landed on Arab villages in the occupied West Bank, military officials and the state radio re­ported. 
There were no immediate re­ports of injuries and apparently no U.S.-made Patriot missile was fired to intercept the Scud. 
It was the first reported hit in the West Bank, where Arabs have shown support for Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. Some reportedly have ap­plauded his earlier missile raids from their rooftops. 
Like the 25 other Scuds fired at Israel, the missile carried a conventional warhead, officials said. 
Israeli leaders warned Iraq on Monday that it would be taking "very, very grave" risks by attacking Israel with chemi­
"Gulf forces" on the map include contingents from Oman, Qatar, UAE., and Kuwait, plus troops from Bangladesh, Morocco and Pakistan. 
Sources: U.S. Dept. of Defense; The Economisl 

~.. •,
MB

cal weapons, and said they have plans to retaliate against such an assault. 
So far, the Israelis have not launched counterattacks fol­lowing the Scud barrages. 
The state radio said parts of the missile fell on villages be­yond the so-called "green line," Israel's border before the 1967 Middle East war in which it captured the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Military sources confirmed the report. 
Israel. which has handed out gas masks to its entire popula­tion of 4. 7 million, has dis­tributed only about 30,000 masks to 1. 7 million Palestinians in the occupied territories, considering them an unlikely target for Iraq. 
A military spokesman, Brig. Gen. Nachman Shai, said be be­lieved no U.S.-supplied, Patriot anti-missile missiles had been fired at the incoming rocket. He 
AP/Pal Lyons 
did not explain why. 

The United States provided 
Israel with six Patriot batteries 
and sources in Washington say 
as many as a dozen will eventu· 
ally be supplied. 

Although some of the Scuds were intercepted by the Patriots. others -some appar­ently after being deflected by Patriot explosions -have struck neighborhoods in the Tel Aviv and Haifa areas, killing two people and wounding about 200. Two other people have died of heart attacks during the missile assaults, and more than 2,000 apartments have been damaged. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said it was unclear whether Saddam has the tech­nology to carry out his threat to arm the Scuds fin~d into Isranl with chemical weapons. 
Saddam grants CNN interview 

NEW YORK (AP) -Iraqi President Saddam Hussein was quoted as saying Monday that the missiles Iraq has been fir­ing at Israel and Saudi Arabia could be harnessed to nuclear, chemical or biological war­heads. 
Saddam, in an interview with CNN's correspondent in Baghdad, Peter Arnett, also said the round-the-clock allied air assault on Iraq has "failed," and he predicted that "lots of blood will be shed on every side" of the gulf war. 
He expressed bitterness at having released foreign hostages prior to the beginning of the war and said Iraq would never surrender Kuwait, Arnett said. 
"He said missiles fired at Israel and Saudi Arabia, which he proudly called al-Hussein missiles ... had nuclear, chemi­cal and biological capability," Arnett said. "But he did com­ment, that 'all the air superior­ity that you see now that has come upon us has failed.' He said, 'We have maintained our balance using only conventional weapons."'· 
Arnett quoted Saddam as adding: "We pray that not a lot of blood will be shed from any nation, we pray that we shall be not be forced in taking a forced measure." 
White House deputy press secretary Homan Popadiuk said the Bush administration had no reaction to Arnett's report. 
American Heart &t..a 


Association 'pw 



r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r f 
r 
f 
---------------~~---~------~~ ----~--------­






Viewpoint 
Tuesday, January 29, 1991

page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks 

Managing Editor John O'Brien 
News Edltor .....••....•...•.....•. Kelley Tuthill Viewpoint Editor .•.••..••..•... Michelle Dall Sports Editor ..•••••.••••......... Greg Guffey Accent Edltor....•••.••••..•..Colleen Cronin Photo Editor .....................•... Eric Bailey Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Business Manager Kathleen O'Connor 
Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Americans should not lose sight of other world events 
Dear Editor: 
"Gunfire and explosions con­tinued into the night...All police were ordered to take up arms and defend other government buildings...The attack by troops began at about 9:06 p.m., as red and white tracer bullets lighted up downtown ... " 
Most Americans would think the above excerpt was describ­ing the Tel Aviv nightline, or perhaps even that of Baghdad. In reality, however, it is the de­scription of a scene which is unfolding far from the Persian Gulf and far from the minds of most Americans. It is a descrip­tion of the events in Riga, the capital city of Latvia. 
Unfortunately, most Americans tend to have one­track minds, unwilling to focus on more than one event at one time. Such is the case today. While America devotes its full attention to the events in the Middle East, events in the 
U.S.S.R. are unfolding at an equally alarming rate. Do not misunderstand me. Obviously, the deployment of U.S. troops anywhere should take priority on the minds of all Americans; however, we cannot lose sight of other world events. 

Gorbachev has systematically gained near-dictatorial control and now, apparently, desires to crush the independence move­ments in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia with force, if necessary. He has forcefully suppressed freedom of speech in Latvia. He has deployed army divisions, including tanks, in order to scare the independence-minded republics. He has raided police academies to secure weapons used to protect the republics' freely elected parliaments. In essence, he is threatening to reverse the progress which has been made over the past two years . toward free and democratic states in the Baltic region. 
Gorbachev timing is impec­cable. Although the three states under attack do not pose any new threats to Moscow, Gorbachev has waited until now to act. He realizes, correctly, that the world is preoccupied with the Persian Gulf Crisis and will pay little attention to his actions. Indeed, the events in the Soviet Union would nor­mally be headline news. Today, however, they are often buried behind reports from Saudi Arabia and Israel. 
What this all means is that, unfortunately, the cold war may not be over; it may simply be entering a new stage. When the world emerges from the war in the Gulf, the nature of this new stage will make itself clear. What is certain is that Americans, while focusing on the Persian Gulf crisis, must also be aware of other domestic and international issues. 
John Barry Keenan Hall Jan.21,1991 

Students angered about censorship at basketball game 
Michael J. Faehner and Christopher B. Anderson 
Guest Columnists 
The Administration of the University of Notre Dame should be ashamed of itself. At Saturday's men's basketball game against Virginia, we were outraged at the treatment of students such as ourselves who were victimized while trying to express support for our troops in the Persian Gulf. Censorship has gone too far when a policy that restricts banners and other modes of expression at basketball games is enforced at an institution of higher learn­ing. Free speech and expres­sion apparently never have ex­isted at Notre Dame. 
The situation is clear. We wished to show support for our troops by bringing an American Flag (quite a small one at that) and a poster reading "WE ARE Because of the many news sto­ries that have featured our campus as being anti-war, we wanted to show a national au­dience that there is a great ma­jority of students here that usher and the members of se­curity then confiscated both ar­ticles, and we were told that we could pick them up after the game. We felt that we were be­ing treated as if we had com­
N.D.,  WE  SUPPORT  OUR  
TROOPS"  to  the  game.  
DOONESBURY  


support President Bush and the 
U.S. Congress in declaring war against Iraq. After arriving at the ticket gate, we were told that we could not bring the flag or the sign into the arena. The members could give for their actions was that they were enforcing "University policy." 

As the game progressed, we were even more astonished as students who had been able to 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
signs of .support for our troops. Obviously, our efforts were in no way destructive or harmful. 
If there is indeed a University policy that forbids banners and flags at basketball games, why couldn't we find any evidence of the policy's existence in du Lac? Let's put this in perspective. A University rule that forbids the display of an American flag in support of over 400,000 mem­bers of the military who are risking their lives in the Middle East is reprehensible. We are morally outraged that a univer­sity that preaches values and social responsibility will not al­low its students to demonstrate their patriotism. Let's hope that any Notre Dame graduates currently serving in the Gulf are not ashamed to have gone to an institution that enforces such a policy. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

--------------------------~--------------------------------------·-------------------------------------------~ 
-


Accent 
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 page 9 
Notre Dame's pathetic
Days of Blunder 
answer to Tom Cruise 
Speed Racer, Knight Rider, Roscoe P. Coltrain: three studs who know their cars. Even though I pattern my life after these legends, I'll never be ac­cepted into their ranks. The first thing holding me back is that I'm not a stud, and sec­ondly, cars hate me. Let me ex­
'My history concerning automobiles isn't exactly spotless, but every catastrophe I've been linked to hasn't actually been my fault' 
plain... 
My history concerning auto­mobiles isn't exactly spotless, but nvery catastrophe I've been linked to hasn't actually been my fault. On some occasions I 
Bill Rosemann 
was a victim, on others, the Hand of God interceded to make my life the stinking pud­Tales of Angst... dle of bile it is. 
I felt the cold beckon of the tempted to stop our progress Grim Reaper when I was but a using my hands...mmm, the feel wee pup. One grand summer I of fresh asphalt. Seconds before decided to tour my visiting oblivion we came to a halt and I 
cousin through my neighbor­mistakenly thought all my hood in our now defunct golf troubles were over. During the cart. Everything was going ordeal my cousin managed to 
swell until she got delusions of cut her leg and now decided to grandeur and wrenched the scream uncontrollably. I con­wheel. My foot got caught un­sidered slitting her throat and 
der the brake as we tipped up burying the evidence, but in­on two wheels and headed to­stead sped home to confront my wards an embarrassing death. enraged folks. 
Thinking I was Shazam, I at-In the sixth grade the Grim Reaper handed his task into the hands of my older brother Jim. Jim drove an ultra-macho, su­per-car-crushin' Blazer which smelled of beer, slaughtered animals, or bodily fluids at all times. One chilly winter morn' he was thundering the carpool to school when he confronted an ice-covered hill. I was rudely handed his steaming mug of coffee and we screamed down the street like Olympic luge runners. 

He managed ·to avoid the stranded cars at the bottom and we were brought to a gen­tle stop by a telephone pole. I flew out of my seat, slammed my head against the windshield, and was covered with my brother's coffee. I lay there in a crumpled heap as the carpoolers in the back seat laughed uproariously. The telephone pole was demolished, but the Blazer came through like a seasoned veteran. I spent the rest of the day stumbling around in a daze smelling of java and being called "Sanka" by my supposed friend, Robert Dickinson. 
The arrival of my driver's li­cense heralded further annihi­lation. I inherited the armored beast and proceeded to carry on my brother's proud tradition of destruction. One day as I pulled out of a parking place at high school, I was puzzled by a sound not unlike screeching metal. I discovered to my dis­may that I had swiftly removed the left side of the car next to me. As I climbed out of my tank, I spotted my current semi-girlfriend walking toward me with her jaw dragging on the ground. "Not now," I warned. "My car!" she screamed. We broke up soon afterwards. 
My favorite mishap involved my coveted Nissan stick-shift pick-up. I was living in Ten­nessee and there's a law down there requiring everyone to own a vehicle good for something called "mudding." I hopped out of the cab to get the mail only to hear a mysterious swoosh of air behind me. I turned to watch my shining carriage, which I thought had the brake on, careen driverless down the parking lot. 
It smashed into a large truck owned by an even larger grit. He spouted an admirable string of profanities as visions of 
' On some occasions I was a victim, on others, the Hand of God interceded to make my life the stinking puddle of bile it is.' 
"Deliverance" danced in my head. "Cledus" decided not to remove my spleen with his Bowie knife, as booming laugh­ter exploded from the clouds above. 
My roommate Steve Boness, who lets me drive his fire­engine-red LeBaron convertible, knows not my automotive history. Now that the truth is out, I fear I may never again put the top down and feel the sweet caress of South Bend ethanol. I may never team-up with Bo and Luke Duke, but I can still let out a red-neck war cry when­ever they tear down the dirt roads of Hazard County. 
Discussion and critique are met with enthusiam in Popular Culture Group 
By EILEEN ISLEIB 
Accent Writer 
Professors and students are discussing and enjoying each other -as well as good movies-outside of the class­room, all as a result of Saint Mary's College Popular Culture Group (PCG). 
The Popular Culture Group was first introduced to Saint Mary's College this fall. "It is a film and lecture series designed to establish a faculty/student forum to discuss popular cul­ture phenomena," says Dr. Carla Johnson, a PCG co-coor­dinator. 
Upcoming films include "A Dry White Season," "Breathless" starring Richard Gere, "Mystic Pizza," and others to be announced later. Future lectures include a field trip to an art show at the Colfax Cultural Arts Center in co­operation with the art depart­ment. An in-house is also planned with faculty and stu­dents. 
The PCG film series is headed by Dr. Johnson. Popular movies are shown, such as '"Animal !louse," "Pretty Woman," and "Dick Tracy," and afterwards participants discuss stereo­types, rolationships, and cul­tural norms that are portrayed in the movie. 
The film series is designed to encourage people to take film more seriously. "The PCG film series will encourage the devel­opment of active, critical view­ing skills through the provision of program notes and discus­sion at each PCG presentation," says Dr. Johnson. 
The program notes are handed out before each film and lecture. They point out the cultural norms, stereotypes and whatever else will be discussed at the end of the presentation. Presently the faculty is making up the notes, but next semester Dr. Johnson and Professor An­drew Cutrofello, PCG co-coor­dinator, hope to have students help compose the program notes. 
Likewise, the discussions have primarily been headed by faculty with student participation. But, according to Dr. Johnson, "Next semester we're hoping to have students and faculty lead the discussions together." 
Cutrofello, who is responsible for the PCG lecture series, in­vites speakers to Saint Mary's to give presentations on various popular culture topics. 
Two recent speakers dis­cussed television and how to analyze and be critical about what is shown. They were Dr. Ruth Monroe, professor and chair of the department of the­ater at Drury College; and Dr. Robert Thompson, associate professor of the communica­tions department at SUNY­Cortland. 

Saint Mary's Popular Culture Group developed after Cutro­fello and Professor Patrick White attended a popular cul­ture conference in Toronto last spring. 
"The faculty wanted to offer Saint Mary's students popular culture through an extracur­ricular group consisting of fac­ulty and students," says Dr. Johnson. In addition, "We wanted to create an equal basis environment where we can talk about entertainment we both enjoy." 
The students' enthusiasm and participation has been surpris­ingly good. "I never expected PCG to catch on so quickly," admits Dr. Johnson. Although the attendance at films has been more than the lectures, both have received great re­sponses. 
The Popular Culture Group has provided Saint Mary's stu­dents with an opportunity to in­teract with faculty outside the classroom. It allows faculty and students to enjoy each other and know each other better. "Hopefully," says Dr. Johnson, "the relationships formed through PCG will carry over into the classroom." 
PCG 
SPRING FILM SERIES 
(Tentative Dates) 
All films will be shown at 7:00p.m. in Carroll Hall, pending room reservation verification-. All films are scheduled on Tuesday nights. 
Feb.S  "Mystic Pizza"  
Feb. 19  11 A Dry White Season"  
Mar.S  "Women on the Verge of a Nervous  
Breakdown"  
Mar. 26.  "Breathless"  
Apr. 9  "Mosquito Coast"  
Apr. 23  11The Misfits"  


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

\  NOTICES  LOST: Blue Swatch between Dillon and Hurley, Tues., 1/22. Sentimental Value. Please call  SWIMMING' JOBS (WSI)­SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN  HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to campus. Only $150/month. Call Paul287-2159.  TICKETS  AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91 GENERAL MEETING #2  
Chris x1851  WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO  NEED 6 TICKETS TO EITHER  
USED TEXTBOOKS  SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL  SHARP houses, '91-'92 yr.  DUKE OR SYRACUSE B-BALL!!!  AnTostal '91  AnTostal '91  
25% off list price  LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort  POOL AND LAKES IN THE  Many extras. 288·5653 or  CALL KEVIN AT X3451  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  of a link design. Great sentimental  NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY,  234-3831  LEAVE MESSAGE  Wednesday@ 9:30 in the  
corner of NO ave and Howard  value. Reward. Phone 2156  ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL  Hesburgh Library Auditorium.  
(Maria).  EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR  2 AND 3 BEDROOM HOMES  I Need one Duke ticket  Everyone interested in making this  
TYPING AVAILABLE  WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Dan x2042  year's Spring Festival  
287-4082  FOUND: portable CD player  LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543  232-3616  "The Best Ever" please attend this  
ND/SMC Ski Club Presents:  call Tom at 1155  (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O.  NICE FURNISHED HOMES  PERSONALS  important meeting!  
SUMMIT, COLORADO  Found: Pair of black, suede gloves  BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA 02332  GOOD  NEIGHBORHOOD  GENERAL MEETING #2  
Fri. March 8 ·Sat. March 16  at last Monday's talk on  (617) 934-6536.  NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6  
•transportation  conscientious objection at the  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA &  AnTostal '91  AnTostal '91  
•5 nights lodging  library auditorium. To claim call  SPRING BREAK 1991  FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991  
·s day lift pass  Tara at x4654.  ENTHUSIASTIC INDIVIDUAL or  4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92  DAYTONA $159! PANAMA CITY  
•group party  STUDENT ORGANIZATION to  Yr. Reas. Rates.  Phone #232­ $99! SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1­ WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK  
•group dinner  promote the two most popular  1776  800-638-6786.  '91! CANCUN FROM $459.  
Sign-up meeting Tues. Jan 29 8:00pm rm.118 Nieuwland Sci.  WANTED  \  Spring Break destinations. Daytona Beach and Cancun  Furnished Bedrooms and Shared  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  JAMAICA FROM $539.00! DON'T MISS THE FUN AND SUN! CALL  
Questions call Mike 271-8901  Mexico. Earn tree trips and cash  Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr.  Information on semester, summer,  1-800-427-7710.  
$$$1!1 Call now. 1-800-256 1799.  Washer and Dryer. $200 per  J-term, Graduate, and Internship  
ATIENTION-LUNCH FASTERS We  Student Travel Services. Ask tor  month includes utilities. Ph. 232­ programs. All programs run under  ADOPTION: Christian couple  
Goofed! If you signed up  SUMMER JOBS  T.J.  1776.  $6000. Call Curtin University at 1­ seeks to adopt white infant.  
for the Wed Lunch Fast at SOH  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  800-878-3696.  Financially secure home in  
last Thurs or Fri, you MUST  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  GRAPHIC ARTIST STUDENT  Quaint apts. near N.D.  suburban area. Expenses paid.  
call x1129: leave Name,ID#.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  NEEDED FOR FREE LANCE  -upstairs 1 bedroom $255  ROCKET,  Legal/confidential. Answer our ad  
We're sorry. THANK YOU  NEAR LAKE PLACID  WORK. CALL IHRD 233-4493.  -downstairs 1 bedroom $265  THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES.  and answer our prayers. Please  

 CALL 1-800-343-8373.  deposit, reference 616-483-9572.  GOD BLESS YOU.  call Harry and Melody collect at  
LOST/FOUND  SUMMER JOBS  MACINTOCH EXPERTISE NEEDED. WE HAVE  Ramada Inn of Elkhart,  YOUR MANY FANS.  (219) 259-0585 any time.  

 SOFTWARE· NEED HELP  Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms  Adoption: Loving couple, doctor  Anyone interested in playing at  
-HELP-: LOST ON TUESDAY  COUNSELORS/SUMMER  INSTALLING AND CLEANING UP.  for  ·  and teacher, longing to share our  "The Coffeehouse" contact  
NIGHT  CHILDREN'S  CALL IHRD 233-4493.  Graduation weekend. Located at  love with newborn. We'll give your  Jim @X4061  
THREE LOOSE KEYS. ROOM #115, P.O. BOX 1214, AND A BUSINESS KEY· AROUND  CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST  ANYONE WITH A TAPE OF SATURDAY'S NO-VIRGINIA  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  baby a caring, warm, and happy home. Expenses paid. Call Carol and Frank collect 212-874-3537.  I need a ride to Cleveland­John Carroll 2/1-213 call  
ALUMNI, MORRISSEY, OR LA  HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE  GAME-PLEASE CALL TIM  deposit per room. Send letter with  Lisa X3882  
FORTUNE.(OR BETWEEN THE  FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES:  AT x2727 ($$$)  deposit to 3011  THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR  
THREE) IF ANY OR ALL ARE  ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL,  Belvedere Rd. Elkhart,  FAVORS GRANTED 1191  Dearest Malini .....  
FOUND, CALL 284-4308. THANK YOU!!  BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS,  SPRING BREAK 1991  IN 46514.  excuuuuuuse me!  It is the dynamic duo is at it again...Inquiry number 1 .... who  
LOST: Men's Pulsar watch,  FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS,  Join thousands of college students in Daytona Beach or Cancun,  MARION ST. FRAT HOUSE Rent tor '91-'92 year  t.s.-thank you tor 4 wonderful months. I love  made breakfast on Sunday? Did you get any grease on your____!  
gold with white face and  HOCKEY, HORSEBACK­ Mexico. Package starting from  For 8 people 2 $160/mnth.  youl-k.h.  
brown leather band. Sentimental value. It found  ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, NATURE,  $99.00 U.S. plus tax. Organize a group and travel tor tree.  Utilities & Furniture extra Call Jon@ 289-1015  PREGNANT? Happily-married  TO ALL OF NOTRE DAME's SWIMMING  
please call Heidi at #2108.  PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO,  Call T.J. at S.T.S 1-800 265·1799.  between 5 and 6 pm.  Catholic parents, full time stay-at­ WOMEN ....  
Lost on Fri. 1118/91 between Cushing and Alumni: key ring with  ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING, SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER,  FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM  Efficiency apartment 1 mile to NO campus.$250 a month. Call Don  home mom and devoted dad, eager to adopt. Will provide strong faith; lots of love; two excited  Great job this weekend. Let's do it again against UIC!!! OUR TEAM RULES !!!!1!11!!11!  
6 keys (3 dorm, 2 car, 1 house). Reward. Call x1209. LOST: a red Minnie Mouse watch probably in JACC gym 2, Sunday 1/27,2 PM. Any info please contact Patty x4092. LOST: Clear plastic dress bag  TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771 , DUXBURY, MA 02332 (617) 934-6536. TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER  $1000 in just one week. Earn up to $1000 tor your campus organization. Plus a chance at $5000 more! This program works! No investment needed. Call 1­800-932-0525 Ext. 50. FOR RENT  1.6830175 after 6pm. FOR SALE CHEAP AIRLINE TICKETS from South Bend to Dallas Feb 7-10. Call 259-6748. Best Offer. FOR SALE -PARENTS OR  brothers; large extended family; opportunities include college and travel. We enjoy week-ends at our lake cottage and mini-vacations with friends/children. Paid medical, legal, counseling, housing, and living expenses. Call COLLECT: 0­317-253·8838, Extension 255 and let us help you.  GOOD LUCK TOG !!!!! Michelle Berninger is a dweeb! so is her roommate Kate Monahan for that matter !!!  
filled with dresses, skirts and shirts.  CHILDREN'S CAMPS­ FURNISHED 6 OR 7 BEDROOM  STUDENTS 3 OR 4 BEDROOM  
Was left hung over  NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN  HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  RIVER TOWNHOUSE NEXT TO  
wire fence behind Breen-Philips on  WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN  SECURITY SYSTEM. NEXT FALL  100 CENTER. BEAUTIFUL VIEW·  SPRING BREAK '91  
Dec. 21. Sweater of great sentimental value inside. It found, please call Erin at x1458.  THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA,  OR SUMMER. 272-6306 PETER GILLIS.  3RD STORY LOFT/STUDIO. $94,500. M. HUDSON/JACK HICKEY HOMES. 255-0322.  BAHAMAS/CANCUN from $375  NEED EXTRA INCOME FOR 1991? Earn $500-lOOlJ weekly stuffing envelopes.  
LOST: Gold Chain bracelet either in  P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA  FREEDOM! Rent the best houses,  FOR SALE: TOSHIBA T1000  For details-Rush $1 00  
the North Dining hall or somewhere in O'Shag. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE and I will pay a reward for whoever returns it. Call 4071  02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381·5983.  prime locations. 233-9947. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  Laptop Computer Asking $395 Call:271-9314  CALLNOWIII 277-0253: MIKE  with SASE to: OIH Group, 7121 Laura! Hill Orlando Fl.32818  

Scoreboard
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 page 11 

NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS PMEN'S TOP 25 
EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE 
The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Atlllntlc Dlvtalon Patr1ck Division 
Press 1990-91 college basketball poll, with first­w L A::t CJ! LID St1118k Home Away Coni w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dtv 
place votes In parentheses, records through Jan. 
Boston 31 11 .738 4-6 Won 1 20-4 11-7 20-8 NY Rangers 27 17 8 62 190 159 14-7-5 13-10-3 9-7-3 
27 total points based on 25 points for a first place Philadelphia 23 19 .548 8 3-7 Lost 1 15-7 8-12 18-11 Philadelphia 26 22 6 58 182 170 14-9-4 12-13-2 
8-10-5 

vote through one point for a 25th place vote and New York 18 23 .439 12 112 4-6 Lost 2 9-12 9-11 11-14 Pittsburgh 27 21 3 57 221 189 16-11-1 11-10-2 13-9-0 last week's ranklngs: 
Washington 18 24 .429 13 4-6 Lost 3 6-17 10-14 New Jersey 21 10 52 176 14-7-6 8-11-5
12-7 21 190 7-14-4 
Alcon:t Pit Pva New Jersey 14 27 .341 16 112 4-6 Won 1 9-13 5-14 9-17 Washington 23 26 3 49 165 175 12-10-2 11-16-1 12-10-1 1. UNLV (62) 
15-0 1,598 1 Miami 11 31 .262 20 3-7 Lost 4 8-13 3-18 5-21 NY Islanders 17 27 6 40 140 181 10-14-3 7-13-3 7-10-4 

2. Arkansas 20-1 1,516 2 3. Ohio St. (2) 17-0 1,490 4Central Dlvlalon Aclama DMIIIon 
4. Indiana 18-2 1,380 
3

Detroit 31 13 .705 8-2 Won 3 19-1 12-12 20-6 Boston 29 16 8 66 191 167 17-6-3 12-10-5 12-7-3 5. St. John's 15-2 1,295 10 Chicago 29 12 .707 1/2 8-2 Won 1 18-3 11-9 18-7 Montreal 28 19 5 61 173 153 16-8-2 11-6-3 6. Arizona
12-11-3 
16-3 1,181 5Buffalo 21 19 10 52 179 166 11-7-6 10-12-4 6-9-4Milwaukee 27 17 .614 4 2-8 Lost 5 20-1 7-16 17-11 

7. Duke 16-4 1,158 9 Atlanta 24 17 .585 5 112 6-4 Lost 2 16-6 8-11 14-15 Hartford 22 23 5 49 147 167 12-10-3 10-13-2 7-10-3 8. Syracuse 17-3 1,121 6 Indiana 17 24 .415 12112 5-5 Won 2 13-7 4-17 11-15 Quebec 10 32 9 29 145 228 5-14-6 5-18-3 
5-9-5 

9. North Carolina 14-3 1,092 7 Charlotte 13 27 .325 16 3-7 Won 1 9-13 4-14 8-16 
1 0. Kentucky 15-3 981 8 Cleveland 13 28 .317 16 112 2-8 Lost 2 8-12 5-16 9-15 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 11 . Nebraska 17-2 870 14Non1s Division 
12. UCLA 15-4 799 11 WESTERN CONFERENCE w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dlv 
13. Utah 19-1 712 20
Mldwat Dlvlalon Chicago 33 15 4 70 176 134 18-7-2 15-8-2 14-6-1 
14. LSU 13-4 686 16w L A::t CJ! LID Streak Home Away Coni St. Louis 28 15 7 63 189 154 13-6-5 15-9-2 13-6-2 15. Virginia 14-4 669 18 San Antonio 30 10 .750 8-2 Won 5 17-3 13-7 22-5 Detroit 22 25 5 49 174 192 18-9-0 4-16-5 9-9-2 
16. E. Tennessee St. 15-2 666 12 Utah 27 15 .643 4 5-5 Lost 1 17-4 10-11 19-7 Minnesota 30 39 186
15 9 158 9-14-4 6-16-5 3-13-3 
17. Southam Miss. 12-2 532 15 Houston 22 20 .524 9 4-6 Won 2 15-6 7-14 13-13 Toronto 13 33 5 31 147 212 8-18-2 5-15-3 6-11-2 18. Georgetown 12-5 501 21 Dallas 14 26 .350 16 3-7 Won 1 8-11 6-15 8-19 19. Pittsburgh 15-5 464 17 Minnesota 13 27 .325 17 4-6 Lost 4 8-11 5-16 9-19 Smythe Division 
20. New Mexico St. 15-2 450 23Denver 11 30 .268 19 112 5-5 Won 3 9-12 2-18 6-21 Los Angeles 28 17 5 61 204 161 16-6-3 12-11-2 9-7-3 
21. Oklahoma 14-5 365 13 Orlando 10 32 .238 21 2-8 Lost 6 8-12 2-20 8-21 Calgary 26 20 5 57 208 169 13-7-1 13-13-4 22. New Orleans 17-2 341 24 
11-6-2 Edmonton 24 22 3 51 165 157 14-9-1 10-13-2 9-10-2 
23. Georgia Tech 12-5 2n l'llcllk: Dlvtalon Vancouver 19 28 4 42 161 194 11-12-2 8-16-2 7-15-0 
24. Kansas 13-4 174 
Portland 36 7 .837 8-2 Won 6 21-2 15-5 22-5 Winnipeg 17 28 8 42 170 185 12-12-3 5-16-5 8-6-5 25. Seton Hall 13-4 161 LA Lakers 30 11 .732 5 10-0 Won 11 16-4 14-7 19-8 Phoenix 27 13 .675 7112 8-2 Won 2 17-4 10-9 18-8 Sunday's Games Tuesday's Games 
Other receiving votee: Wyoming 90, Connecticut Golden State 23 17 .575 11 1/2 7-3 Won 2 14-4 9-13 14-11 Washington 5, N.Y. Islanders 4, OT N.Y. Islanders at Hartford, 7:35p.m. 
48, Princeton 28, Temple 28, Oklahoma St. 25, 
Seattle 19 21 .475 15 112 5-5 Lost 1 14-6 5-15 8-15 Boston 3, Montreal 1 Washington at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. 
Texas 21, Alabama 13, Mississippi St. 13, 
LA Clippers 15 27 .357 20 112 4-6 Won 1 11-8 4-19 11-13 Calgary 5, Buffalo 4 Winnipeg at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. 
Michigan St. 9, E. Michigan 8, Missouri 7, N. Sacramento 11 28 .282 23 4-6 Lost 2 10-10 1-18 8-20 Edmonton 3, Winnipeg 2 
Buffalo at St. Louis, 8:35 p.m. 
Carolina St. 6, Colorado 4, South Carolina 4, Iowa 3, Memphis St. 3, N. Illinois 3, Texas Christian 3 
Monday's Garnes Wednesday's Games
Sunday's Game Tuesday's Games Houston 2, South Florida 2, Cincinnati 1. ' LA Lakers 104, Boston 87 Charlotte at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. 
Late Game Not Included Winnipeg at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. 
New Jersey 6, Detroit 2 Detroit at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. Monday'• Games Miami at Washington, 7:30p.m. AP WOMEN'S TOP 25Phoenix at Orlando, 7:30 p.m. 
Toronto 4, Minnesota 0 N.Y. Rangers at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Late Gamea Not Included San Antonio at Houston, 8 p.m. Chicago at Vancouver, (n) Vancouver at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. Detroit 87, Washmgton 81 New Jersey at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 
Seattle at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. 

The top 25 teams in the women's college
Boston 108, Minnesota 87 Denver at Milwaukee. 8:30p.m. 
San Antonio 119, Seattle 107 Atlanta at Utah, 9:30p.m. NHL LEADERS TRANSACTIONS basketball poll, as compiled by Mel Greenberg of The Philadelphia Inquirer, with first-place voles In
New York at Golden State, (n) New York at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
parentheses, records through Jan. 27, total points
Atlanta at Portland, (n) New Jersey at LA Lakers. 10:30 p.m. SCORING BASEBALL based on 25-24-23-22-21-20-19-18-17-16-15-14­
New Jersey at Sacramento, (n) ~ G A Pis Plm American Laegue 13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1 and last week'sGretzky, LA 49 32 66 98 12 NEW YORK YANKEE&-Agreed to terms with ranking:
NBA LEADERS Cullen, Pgh 50 23 58 81 60 Eric Plunk, pitcher, on a one-year contract. NCAA BASKETBALL SCORES 50 51 77 30 Alcon:t Pva
Pit

Recchi. Pgh 26 TORONTO BLUE. JAY&-Agreed to terms with 1. Virginia (62) 18-1 1,622 1Hull, SIL 50 52 22 74 12 Rene Gonzalez, Infielder, and Denis Boucher and 
Scoring 2. Penn St. (2) 15-1 1,536 2
Larmer, Chi 52 30 42 72 32 Mike Timlin, pitchers, on one-year contracts. 
G FG FT Pis Avg Coffey, Pgh 51 20 47 67 93 National League 3. Tennessee 17-3 1,463 4 Jordan, Chi. 41 506 249 1272 31.0 51 32 66 20 4. Georgia (1) 16-2 1,410 5
Yzerman, Del 34 CINCINNATI RED&-Agreed to terms with Todd 
Barl<ley. Phil. 35 376 306 1079 30.8 EAST 5. Purdue 17-1 1,324 6
Sakic, Que 51 27 39 66 18 Benzinger, first baseman; Billy Bates, inlielder; and 
King, Wash 41 485 253 1228 30.0 Canlsius 79, Vermont 64 Macinnis, Cal 51 19 45 64 60 6. N.C. State 15-3 1,304 3
Keith Brown, Rodney lmes and Bill Risley, pitchers, 
411 1172 27.9 Colgate n. Rider 74 7. Auburn
K.Malone, Utah 42 349 Roenlck, Chi 51 26 34 60 62 on one-year contracts. 16-3 1,223 7 Robinson, S.A. 39 377 277 1031 26.4 Delaware 102, Navy 80 Tocchet, Pha 54 34 24 58 114 MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with 8. Stanford 14-3 1,188 8 
1076 Drexel 81, Lehigh 76 15-1
Ewing, N.Y. 41 417 242 26.2 Leetch, NYR 52 11 47 58 32 Dave Martinez, outfielder, on a one-year contract 9. Rutgers 1.132 9 
40 368 245 1025 25.6 Lafayette 83, Penn 72 10.LSU 15-3 997 10
Wilkins. AU Stevens, Pgh 51 26 30 56 91 PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE&-Agreed to ter_;,s
Loyola, Md. 83, Siena 57 13
Mullin, G.S. 40 380 231 1010 25.3 Nieuwendyk, Cal 51 27 28 55 22 with John Kruk, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 11. W. Kentucky 16-1 967 
Richmond, G.S. 35 339 171 871 24.9 Massachusetts 98, Holy Cross 94 2,6 29 55 24 12. Arkansas 16-3 843 11
LaFontaine, NYI 45 
31 250 190 760 24.5 Princeton 82, Elizabethtown 45 13. Washington 13-3 761
Adams. Den. Oates, SIL 31 11 44 55 25 BASKETBALL 16 
Rutger11 79, Penn St. 78 14. Mississippi 13-4 725 15
Fleury, Cal 51 22 32 54 96 National Basketball Asaoc:latlon
Rebounding Syracuse 68, Connecticut 66 15. Northwestern 11-4 712 14
Janney, Bos 51 17 37 54 8 PHILADELPHIA 76ER5-Piaced Dave Hoppen,
G cw o.t Tot Avg Temple 78, Rhode Island 61 16. UNLV 15-3 621 12
Nicholls, NYR 51 19 34 53 58 center, on the Injured list. Signed Tony Harris
Olajuwon. Hou. 29 110 301 411 14.2 17. Texas 12-5 580 18
Bourque, Bos 49 11 42 53 36 guard, to a 1 0-day contract. ' Robinson. S.A. 39 176 331 507 13.0 18. Connecticut 16-3 437 17
Sandstrom. LA 40 26 26 52 70
SOUTH

K.Malone, Utah 42 148 380 528 12.6 19. Notre Dame 12-3 374 20
Robitaille, LA 46 25 27 52 44 BOXING
Appalachian St. 78, VMI 72

Oakley, N.Y. 41 147 352 499 12.2 20. Clemson 13-5 21
366

Austin Peay 85, Morehead St. 75 Hatcher, Wash 51 16 36 52 58 USA BOXING-Named Jay Miller director of
Rodman. Del. 43 162 324 486 11.3 21. Providence 15-3 304 19
Muller, NJ 51 14 38 52 47 communications. Ewing, N.Y 41 101 356 457 11.1 22. Florida St. 13-2 224 25
E. Kentucky 87, Murray St 82 

Makarov, Cal 50 19 32 51 24
E. Tennessee St. 99, Marshall 88

Coleman, N J 35 124 247 371 10.6 23. Lamar 18-1 156
Fedorov. Del 49 22 28 50 30 HOCKEY Parish. Bos. 40 121 293 414 10.4 24. Maryland 13-6 124 'Middle Tenn. 92, Tennessee St. 80 National Hockey LeagueMorgan St. 65, Howard U. 61
Daugherty, Clev 41 95 329 424 10.3 25. Iowa 9-6 120 23
N. Carolina AA T 84, Florida AAM 81 SPORTS CALENDAR NEW YORK ISLANDERs-Named Bill Barnes
Rasmussen. Den. 38 95 297 392 10.3 
N.C. Charlotte 85, Davidson 72 vice president of marketing and sales. Others receiving votes: Michigan St. 108, NE Loulclana 100, Loui61ana Tech 89 Fullerton St. 75, Louisiana Tech 64, Oklahoma St.
A-.. 
South Alabama 82, W. Kentucky 78 SOCCER 52, Holy Cross 44, Stephen F. Austin 41, TexasG No. Avg. 
Tulane 84, N-Orleans 83, 20T Tueeday, January 211 Major Soccer League Tech 29, Richmond 23, Montana 17. N. Illinois 17,Stockton. Utah 42 593 14.1 
W. Carolina 74, Cnadel 72 Men's Basketball at Dayton DALLAS SIDEKICKs-Named Gordon Jago James Madison 16, Kansas 16, Nebraska 16,Johnson. LAL 39 532 13.6 
Wake For""l 72, Mlarri, Fla 66 Women's Basketball vs. Xavier, JACC, 7:30 head coach and reassigned Billy Phillips, former Creighton 14, Santa Clara 14, SW Missouri 13,Adams, Den. 31 369 11.9 
Men's and Women's Swimming at UIC head coach, to an assistant's role. Kentucky 11, Butler 1 0, Cent. Michigan 1o. SlanaK .Johnson, Phoe. 40 400 10.0 
Wedneaday, January 30 Hardaway, G.S. 40 396 9.9 
MIDWEST 6, Wls.-Green Bay 3, DePaul 2, George 
Creighton 78, S. Illinois 75 No events scheduled COLLEGE Washington 2, Georgia Tech 2, Kansas St. 2, Long Bogues. Char. 39 379 9.7 
DePaul 84, Marquette 58 Tlusday, JllllUary 31 HOFSTRA-Announced that Rob Spence, Beach St. 1.
Richardson, Minn. 39 377 9.7 
Evansville 79, Loyola, Ill. 64 Men's Basketball va. Boston College, JACC offe~s1ve coordmator, has resigned to become
Thomas. Del. 39 357 9.2 
Women's Basketball at Saint Louis rece1vers coach at Holy Cross. 
llllnoi6 53, Iowa 50Grant, LAC 42 382 9.1 

Friday, February 1 Strickland. S.A. 36 312 8.7 
SW Mi6souri St. 62, Bradley 60 HOLY CROSs-Named Rob Spence receivers 
No events scheduled 
Robert L. Franklin, M.D. announces the opening South Bend office for the practice of




NEED SOME MONEY? 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self•knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career problems. University of
Work Catering-JPW 
Chicago medical faculty member with American Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 

Sign up in the basement of South Dining Hall 
JIJNifJIIF/JRMAL
this week, or next 
week February 1, 1991 $10 per couple
Mon J0-2 

hors d'oeuvres, cash bar, music 
Tues + Fri l 0-4 

tickets on sale now at both 
Wed+ Thurs J-7 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


or call 239-5449 



..,. ---­
-~ 
The Observer Tuesday, January 29, 1991
page 12 
Dumars lifts Pistons in fourth; Shaw scores 23 points for Celtics 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. (AP) ­John Long made four free throws in the final 16 seconds and Joe Dumars scored 10 of his 27 points in the fourth quarter as the Detroit Pistons beat Washington 87-81 Monday night, moving the defending NBA champions into sole pos­session of first place for the first time this season. 
Long, signed to a 10-day con­tract after Isiah Thomas was injured, hit two free throws with 16.4 seconds left to put the Pistons ahead 85-81. He added two more with 7.7 sec­onds after getting fouled while rebounding Bernard King's 3­point attempt. 
The Pistons are one-half game ahead of Chicago in the Central Division. The Bulls were idle Monday. 
Dennis Rodman added 18 points Long had 10 as Detroit won its 15th in the last 17 games. The Pistons' 11th straight home victory made them 19-1 at The Palace, and Detroit is 27-3 when holding the opposition under 100 points. 
King led Washington with 30 
Bear's Tomczak becomes Plan 8 free agent 
CHICAGO (AP) -Chicago Bears quarterback Mike Tomczak says he won't be on his team's 37-man protected list, leaving him free to negotiate with other teams. 
Tomczak said Sunday he re­ceived a letter Friday from the Bears informing him he'll be­come a "Plan B" free agent when the list is submitted Feb. 1. 
"It was my recommendation that if we wanted to give Peter Tom Willis an opportunity to see what he can do, that we let Mike go now," Bears offensive coordinator Greg Landry said. "Not that we didn't want Mike. And he could still decide that he wants to stay with us rather than signing with another team. 
"But I felt it would be better to give Mike a chance to catch on someplace else now rather than wait until August," Landry said. "Then, if Willis worked out and became our No. 2 quarterback, we'd hand him his walking papers just before the regular season started." 
Tomczak said the letter came as a surprise since Bears coach Mike Ditka had said he was planning to keep all three quar­terbacks -Tomczak, Willis and Jim Harbaugh. 
"But, like Ditka says, in life, sometimes you change your mind," Tomczak said. 
Tomczak signed with the Bears as a free agent in 1985 after all 28 NFL teams passed him up in the draft. He backed up Jim McMahon until winning the starting job in 1989. Tomczak lost the starting spot to Harbaugh this year until Harbaugh was benched with a separated shoulder in December. 
Tomczak completed 39 of 104 passes (37.5 percent) for 521 yards in the regular season with three touchdowns and five interceptions. 
points. Harvey Grant added 10 as the Bullets lost to Detroit for the 13th time in 14 games. 
The Pistons took control early in the fourth quarter with a 12­3 run that turned a one-point deficit into a 73-65 lead with 
6:57 left. Rodman scored eight straight Detroit points during the burst. 
Washington eventually cut it to 79-77 with 2:42 left after two straight baskets by King. Mter trading baskets, Dumars made a 20-foot jumper that put the Pistons up 83-79 with 52.4 seconds to play, but King coun­tered with two free throws that made it 83-81 with 34.7 sec­onds left before Long stepped up. 
Detroit never led by more than three points until the final period. Washington's biggest lead was five. 
The fourth quarter started with the score tied at 60 after Detroit ended the third period with a 7-2. 
Both teams struggled in the third quarter, just as they had in the first half, which ended with Detroit ahead 38-37. 
King scored 12 points to finish the first half as the only player on either team in double figures. The Bullets did not at­tempt a free throw in the first half until there were just 3.4 seconds remaining. 
BOSTON 108-WOLVES 87 
Brian Shaw scored 8 of his 23 points in the final 6 minutes and the Boston Celtics made their fmal 11 shots to turn back a Minnesota rally and defeat the Timberwolves 108-87 Monday night. 
Kevin McHale added 20 points and Kevin Gamble 19 for the Celtics, who are 5-6 without injured Larry Bird. Boston, which saw a 25-point lead shrink to 5 before its late surge, leads the NBA with a 25-1 record against the four most recent expansion teams. 
The Celtics are also first in field-goal defense, limiting opponents to 44.5 percent. That came into play in the second quarter, when the Timberwolves shot 16.7 percent and tied a team record with just 10 points. Minnesota set a franchise record with only 31 first-half points on 25 percent shooting. 









MEDJUGORJE 
TONIGHT! 
Why is the Blessed Mother appearing daily in Medjugorje? 
On March 28, 1990, Fr. Michael O'Carroll CSSp, author of five encyclopedias on the doctrine and spirituality of the Church, concluded a lecture at Notre Dame by stating: 
"The good fruits of Medjugorje are unparalleled in the history of the Church!" 
Come and hear one of the parish priests from Medjugorje 
(Tuesday, January 29, 1991) 

Fr. Philip Pavich, OFM 
7:30P.M. Washington Hall 
(Just to the right of the Administration Building) 
University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by The Knights of the Immaculata, in conjunction with Queen of Peace Ministries 
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 The Observer page 13 
......



25th ranked women's tennis 'team opens season with Eck Classic 
By RICH SZABO 
tion, the Irish placed three 
playing some top ten teams." Faustmann, 43rd in singles,
Sports Writer 
other doubles teams highly, Louderback pointed to the has had a bout with mono. She with the tandems of Kim upcoming weekend as impor­will be playing with a flak­The Notre Dame women's Pacella/ferri Vitale coming in tant in setting the tone for the jacket on for protection, but at tennis team opened up its 8th, Eniko Bende/Kristy Doran, season. "We play one of the top practice yesterday, Louderback spring season this past week­lOth, and Kathy Clark/Melissa four teams in the region felt that it did not seem to end, hosting the Eck Doubles Harris, 11th. [Wisconsin]. That will tell us bother her. The pair will be Classic at the Eck Tennis Second-year head coach Jay how we will play the rest of the teaming up for the National Pavillion. The tournament was Louderback said, "Last week­year." Indoor Championships later in an individual doubles competi­end was a good start for us." the spring. Strengthening the tion, with all of the teams com­Tholen added, "The tourna­Absent from the weekend lineup for the Irish, sophomore piled into one draw. ment was to see who would competition were junior Tracy Melissa Harris finished the fall 
The Irish fared well, with the work well with who. I'm really Barton and freshman Christy campaign 44th in the country. fifth-seeded duo of Ann excited for the season." Faustmann, the Irish doubles The team opens up its dual
Ann Bradshaw 
Bradshaw and Lisa Tholen After this promising perfor­team ranked 12th nationally in match schedule this weekend making it all the way to the fi­mance, the Irish can look for­into the spring campaign 25th the Volvo Collegiate Poll after with contests against Furman nals before falling 2-6, 6-7 (5-7) ward to a grueling 25 match in the Volvo/Collegiate Tennis the fall season. Barton, 28th in and Wisconsin at Madison, and to Erica Adams and Eve spring season, including nine Poll. The team is also ranked the country in singles, was then challenge Marquette in Slowinski from Purdue dual matches against teams 2nd in the region behind rested during the Eck Classic Milwaukee. While the Irish face University. Along the way, they that were ranked in the final Indiana. due to tendinitis. She will re­a tough schedule, it is the type defeated the second-seeded top-25 poll last season. Assistant Maureen McNamara turn to the Irish lineup for this of competition necessary for team of Amy Boyle and Nicole Achieving their first preseason said, "We have a good team this coming weekend's away the team to solidify a spot in Catalano 6-0. 0-6, 6-4. In addi-ranking ever, the Irish come year, but we'll be challenged matches. the rankings. 
Pitino, Wildcats improving, Louisville on downslide after meeting 
LEXINGTON, Ky. (APl -first losing record in 47 years. Cardinals. But Smith and point. You can't change any­defensive lapses. Kentucky and Louisville have Six of the losses have come to Sullivan have been inconsistent thing. You just try to correct the "You play it the way I want it gone separate ways since they Top 25 teams -Indiana, and the team averages 17.5 things you're not doing." played or you'll watch next to met four weeks ago in their an­Kentucky, UCLA, South turnovers a game. Kentucky coach Rick Pitino is me," he said. nual Dream Game. Carolina, Southern Mississippi "If they practice hard and making the most of a negative Kentucky's trademark has 
At the time, Kentucky was 5-2 and UNLV. work hard, I'll never complain in getting the most from his been its all-out, swarming de­and ranked in the Top 25. about them," said Crum. players. The Wildcats are fense which has forced oppo­Louisville was 5-1 and hoping a "They're doing the best they "They're still a good group. banned by the NCAA and nents to average 20.2 turnovers victory would give it a national can," said Louisville coach They're fun to work with. Southeastern Conference from a game. ranking. Denny Crum. "Once the game is Attitude is great. They're just postseason play. Kentucky is not exceptionally 
For Kentucky, which won the over, you just put it behind you not as good as some of the talented, but it does have a 
game 93-85, the victory was and you look to the next one. teams we've had but I love "Because we have nothing to chemistry on the court that part of a 10-game winning You've got to prosper from your them anyway." look forward to, we have to do makes up for many of its streak that ended last Saturday mistakes." it now," he said. "We're playing shortcomings. 
at Alabama. The Wildcats (15-Louisville is lacking in several Louisville's burden should every game like it's the last "I was just really impressed 
3) also moved up the AP poll, areas, most noticeably in size, ease up in February with no game, and that's pressure." with their enthusiasm," Florida reaching No. 8 before dropping experience and depth. ranked teams on the horizon. Pitino has been demanding on coach Lon Kruger said after his to lOth after Saturday's loss. Senior guard LaBradford "In Metro Tournament time, I his players. While he eneour­loss to the Wildcats last week. 
For Louisville, the loss started Smith and junior forwards hope it pays off," said Sullivan. ages them to shoot from 3-point "It was fun to watch them play, a six-game slide that has the Everick Sullivan and Cornelius "We're definitely working hard. range, he doesn't hesitate to not necessarily play against Cardinals (7-9) looking at their Holden have carried the That's all you can do at this take them out of the game for them." 
I 
i 
~ 
I j I j I I 
~ 
I I I 
j 
~ 
~ 
I 



...---------------·----~ .-------------~~~ ~~ ~-. ----------~ 
""'" ,....IT 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, January 29, 1991 
Las Vegas bookies pleased with Super Bowl point spread 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -The out­come of Sunday's Super Bowl was still in doubt when Scott Norwood lined up for a field goal that would have won the game for Buffalo. By that time, however, bookmakers in this city's legal betting parlors were already counting their win­nings. 
The game had already been decided in the sports books, where bettors enamored of the favored Bills wagered millions of dollars with the expectation that Buffalo would win by a touchdown or more. 
It mattered not to the book­makers whether Buffalo or New York won. What mattered was that the Bills not cover the 
Clemens meets 
with American 
League President 
NEW YORK (AP) -Roger Clemens appeared before American League preside nt Bobby Brown on Monday in an effort to overturn his five-game suspension at the start of the season. 
Clemens, who was given the suspension along with a $10,000 fine for his actions in Game 4 of the American League playoffs, argued his case along with his agent, Randy Hendricks, and Gene Orza and Michael Weiner of the Major League Baseball Players Association. 
"Everybody had a chance to say what was on their mind," Brown said. "We reviewed the tapes and we reviewed the um­pires' reports." 
Umpires Jim Evans and Terry Cooney attended the 5 1/2-hour hearing, along with Umpires Association lawyer Richie Phillips and AL umpires super­visor Marty Springstead. Boston president John Harrington represented the Red Sox. 
"We had the opportunity to present our side of what went on," Orza said. "We're hopeful that Bobby, if he takes a fresh look at the matter, will change his mind." 
Brown, who issued his origi­nal ruling in November, said the league was able to obtain two different videotapes of the incident, in which Cooney ejected Clemens after what the umpire said were derogatory comments from the mound. Clemens denies cursing at Cooney until after he was ejected. 
Clemens and Hendricks were given until Feb. 28 to submit a brief. 
"After I've seen the brief, I need to write a written opin­ion," Brown said. "This is going to be my first experience with a brief. I don't know if it will be a hundred-page brief or a three­page brief." 
Clemens and his brother were arrested on Jan. 19 in a Houston nightclub and the pitcher was charged with ag­gravated assault on a police of­ficer. A hearing on that case is scheduled for Feb. 18. 
Clemens denies the charges. He could bring a penalty of two to 10 years in prison and a fine
I 
~ of up to $10,000. ~ 
t t 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

.. ,. on Tuesday, 
8 p.m. in Rm. 118 Nieuwland Science. Signups and $10 nonrefundable deposits will be taken for the spring break trip Summit County, CO. Question, call Mike at 271-8901 or Bob 283-3588. 
Hapkido Club meets Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7:30 pp.m. in Rm. 219 Rockne. Learn self-defense and sparring techniques. Beginners welcome. For more information, call Ron at x3504. 
Anyone interested in becoming commissioner for the Bookstore Basketball Tournament should pick up an application at the SUB secretary, 2nd floor, LaFortune. Applications are due on Feb. 3. Any questions or comments should be addressed to McGee at 234-8817. 
The NO Cricket Club will have a practice and organiz.....,uu·~·­m<•<>""" on Wednesday, Jan. 30 at 10 p.m. in Loftus. All tudents and faculty are encouraged to attend and bri equipment. Call Mark at x3419 or Tim at x1556 for information. 
D/SMC Women's Lacrosse Club will hold a meeting January 31 at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility, St. For more information, call Cathy at 284-4456. 
Students planning on applying to medical school will be facing a completely revised Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) starting in Ap:il 1991 The Association of American Medical Colleges has announced that the new MCAT will measure a broader range of skills 
Fortunately, the test makers aren't the only ones making changes. Stanley H. Kaplan, the first name in MCAT prep, has already designed a brand new course to help students get ready for the brand new test All our lessons, home study notes, practice tests, and review will reflect the latest MCAT format and content. 
Does Kaplan preparation work7 Over HALF the students in medical school today are Kaplan alumnL New test7 No problem. 
;, STANLEY H. KAPlAN
1 Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
1717 L SOUIH Rl!IO A\J'L 
SUUTH B£:ND, I~ 466}7 
219/212-41 }'j 
4/27/91 MCA T Prep Class starts 2/2/91. 
Even at little Caesars casino,  "The handle was down a bit,"  
where a bettor won a $300,000  said Michael Roxborough, a  
wager on the Giants, the sports  consultant who sets the lines  
book still finished ahead.  for many Las Vegas books. "I  
"We still made money," little  think it was around $40 million  
Caesars owner Eugene Mayday  statewide, which is down from  
said. "We made like $200,000  about $45 million last year."  
on the game, even with that  Ironically, bookmakers say  
loss."  they would have done even bet­ 
Other sports books also lost  ter on the game if Norwood  
some big bets on the Giants,  would have made his kick and  
but more than made up for  the Bills won. That would have  
them by the sheer volume of  given books wins on money line  
money wagered on the Bills.  bets made on the Giants, plus  
At the Mirage, a bettor won a  spoiled many parlay cards that  
$175,000 bet on the Giants, but  had the Giants plus the points  
the book won a $200,000 par­ and a total score of 41 or un­ 
lay from a Bills bettor.  der.  
Betting on the Super Bowl was  "That would have been the ul­ 
down anywhere from 10 per­ timate scenario," Glantz said.  
cent to 20 percent this year,  "That kick would have ruined  
which bookmakers blame on  most of the parlays and we  
the war in the Persian Gulf, two  would have really cleaned up."  
New York teams in the game  That, Roxborough said, was  
and the lack of an extra week  more than just wishful think­ 
to take in bets.  ing.  
Still, bettors were jammed 20  "They won, but bookmakers  
deep at betting windows in  want to win everything," he  
most books Sunday morning,  said. "That's why they're in this  
looking to make last-minute  business."  
wagers before the game.  
Focus On  

America's Future 
Help Prevent Birth Defects 
~ Support the 

\Jil ~~f?Dec~LgJt!l~ 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTONA BEACH ••om sns· 
AMERICAN(), RAMADA INN, VOYAGER 011 DfSERT INN HOTElS & KITCHENETTES • 5 0117 NIGHTS 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND l•om SJ29' 
SHERATON CONDOS & HOTEl, GUlF VIEW & lANDfAll TOWfR CONDOS, 011 HOUDAY INN • S011 7NIGHTS 
STEAMBOAT hom sss. 
SHADOW RUN CONDOS 011 OVERLOOK HOTEL • 2, 5 0117 NIGHTS WTTH AU UfTS • PICNIC •RACE 
FORT LAUDERDALE ••om Sl37* 
LAUDERDALE BEACH HOTEL • 7 NIGHTS 
PANAMA CITY BEACH l•om $}24* 
TOURWAY INN 011 THE REEF KITCHENETTES • 7NIGHTS 
. CORPUS CHRISTI/MUSTANG ISLAND SlOB*
hom 

HOUDAY INN 011 PORT ROYAL OCEAN RESORT (C/NOOS • 5 011 7NIGHTS 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND hom Sll2* HILTON HEAD ISLAND BEACH & TENNIS RESORT CONDOS • 7NIGHTS 
DON'T DELAY! 
CENTRAL SPRING BREAK~~ INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
•E~c 1•800•321•5911 7AM-7PM M·Th. 7AM·SPM Frl, 9AM·5PM Sal. Mo11n1a1n Standard Tim• AllUMitol\1. ma~ llt. mtdiiiY tftdl\ tatll 
~ lliZ~lill 
14 HOUit FAX lf.SEIIVATIONS 1$03J :1:15·1514
·a.-"'tlllllf~• """_,.,., fllll.t• 
7 -point spread. 
"For once it fell the way it was supposed to fall for the books," Fred White, sports book manager at Leroy's, said. "It was a pretty good day for us, probably our best Super Bowl ever." 
Although betting on this year's Super Bowl didn't match that of previous years, bookmakers could barely conceal their glee Monday with the outcome of the contest. 
With much of the estimated $40 million in legal wagers bet on the Bills, bookies needed the Giants to stay within a touch­down to win. A big Bills victory would have meant a big book­maker's loss. 
"If the Bill won in a romp, we would have been in serious trouble," White said. "The Bills were so awesome in the play­offs that they became a public team, and the public jumped all over them in the Super Bowl." 
Sports books throughout the city reported cashing in on the game, which easily ranks as the biggest betting event of the year. 
"It was about time we won a game," Keith Glantz, book manager at the Palace Station, said. "The public had won every playoff game before this, so it was our turn. And the handle was so big that this more than makes up for the playoffs." 


Tuesday,Janua~29, 1991 The Observer page 15 
LECTURES CROSSWORD 
The growing field of animal liposuction 
Give your parents and friends the real scoop on college life 
Send them a subscription to The Observer 
And have the latest news and sports from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's delivered to your home for $25 a semester. Send to: 
Name 

The Observer 
Address

P.O.Box Q 
City State Zip
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "A Renormalized Picture of a Large Atom," Prof. Jan Philip Solovej, University of Toronto. Room 226, Mathematics Building. Sponsored by Mathematics Department. 
7 p.m. Talk. "Sportswriting: A Woman's Place," Jane L11avy , author of Squeeze Play. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by University Libraries of Notre Dame, the Joyce Sports Research Collection, The Friends of the Library at Notre Dame, The Year of Women Committne and Ameriean Studies. 
7:30 p.m. "Why is the Blessed Mother Appearing Daily in Medjugorje?" by Father Phillip Pavich, OFM a Parish Prh1st from Medjugorje. Washington Hall. Sponsored by the Knights of the Immaculata. 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday, January 29, 1991 
7 p.m. Film, "Potemkin," Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
7:30 
p.m. Panel Presentation, "Should Women Be Ordainnd in the Catholic Church?" Dr. John Houck. Modnrator. llesburgh Library Lounge. Sponsored by l.adins of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 

7:30 
p.m. Charismatic Prayer Meeting and Mass. Log Chapel. 

7:30 
p.m. Basketball. Notre Dame Women vs. Xavier. JACC. 


9 p.m. Film, "To Have and Have Not." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey 
Eggs Foo Yung 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
Irish Fried Flounder 

SPELUtiCER JAY HOSLER 

ACROSS 27 Acronym for a 61 Rude look, statute re sometimes
1 Regional retirement 63 Resignphrase 

29 Multitude 64 Mexican pot 6 Bloke 
34 Houston Oilers' 65 Malayan 10 Witticism home mammal 14 · -cum laude 38 "They'll Do It 
66 Ubangi feeder Every Time" 
67 Rajah's wife 1s Lacoste of man 68 Expungetennis 69 Summer quaffs 

39 Luna's sphere 
16 Eight: Comb. 10 Straight-­
40 Bell town of
form arrow
fiction 71 Brings down 
11 Peyton, for one 42 Functions 18 Discharge 43 Fall flower 19 Solar disk 45 Subject for a DOWN 
20 Roof edges seer 1 Constrain 
47 Flings
21 Star study 2--Lama
49 Peddles 23 Prevaricate 
3"-atthe

so--Moines 
office"24 Sandy's 52 Vermilion, for 4 Fairy-tale headgear one opener26 "All's well" at 53 Fonddu-­s Toscanini was NASA 56 Man in space one 

6 Vanilla-flavored beverage

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 Skirt parts 8 Singer O'Day 9 British fuel 
-:-:+:-+"+::-! 1oRivers from Brooklyn 11 Outer: Comb. 
form 12 Originate 13 Randall or 

-=+::+::'-E+=-i Bennett 22 Approve ~=+::-+=-+=-! 25 Verdi heroine "'"""~=+=~..._ ~~:+.:1ioi.l.i 27 Trawler followers -':-t::+:-E+=-i 28 Accumulate =+:-t::+.-:-+=-i 30 Caesar's foes ....t-::-t::+:-+=-i 31 "Wishing will make--" 
32 Actor Vidov 33 Curious, to a fault 34 Third of a Latin 
trio 35 Middling 36Wee ones 37 Amuse 41 Heraldic border 44 Decorate again 46 Methuselah, 
e.g . 48 Lady from Le6n 
CALVIN AND HOBBES  BILL WATIERSON  
JUMP...JUMP... JUMP... JUMP... JUMP...  
l  
j  
'(Q\l'IJt. ~l'-ll'\ WON IN T\.\t. OO~~RO MAN\ IT.STI\TION Cit-1\\15 Gr>.t-A.E.. Mi SP/IUr IS STill \INIJi\NQU\51-\ED.  M'{ 5PIRII 15 K.ICK.\NG -mE SPIRIT' Cf ~0\J~ C~ECKE.RS CLE.t>.R !>.CRoSS -mE ROOM.  j I I I I I ~ I  
~  

l 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute). 
51 Rooms in a cas a 
53 Actual seat of Bolivia's government 
54 Rebel 
ss Demeter's Roman counterpart 

56 Bluish green 57 Took to court sa Mah-jongg 
piece 59A.A.A. 
suggestions 60Armbone 62 Scarlett's home 
---~~-----­
Sports
page 16 Tuesday,Janua~29, 1991 

Freshman John Ross has accumulated more playing time than anticipated with the absence of La Phonso Ellis and Monty Williams. 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
Tonight, Notre Dame re­sumes its task of "taking care of business," hosting Xavier University at 7:30 p.m. The Lady Musketeers (11-6, 4-2} won eight straight games ear­lier in the season, but come into tonight's game having lost two in a row-their latest set­back an 88-68 drubbing at Butler. 
Although the 19th-ranked Irish are riding the crest of a conference-record 31 consecu­tive Midwest Collegiate Conference victories-as well as an 11-game winning streak, second longest in team his­tory-McGraw hopes the team has not lost some of its mo­mentum gained before the break in action. 

"Normally, when we have a couple of days off, we come 10 in the nation from three­back sluggish," McGraw said. point range (12.3 ppg, .416 "''m not sure just how quickly three-point percentage). we'll come back to form." Xavier makes extensive use 
Freshman Andrea Alexander of its lineup, playing all 12 will start her third consecutive players at least seven minutes game for Notre Dame tonight. a game. 6-0 senior Julie A surprise choice to replace Campbell (14.6 ppg, 8.2 rpg}, Comalita Haysbert in the and guards Sheryl Krmpotic lineup, she has been filling the (14.2 ppg, 3.2 steals) and role McGraw asked of her quite Annette Trenkamp (11. 7 ppg) well since being inserted into all average in double figures. the starting five. The rest of the starting lineup 
is comprised of 5-9 sophomore 

"She is doing exactly what we Monique Greene (4.9 ppg, 3.3 want from her," McGraw said. rpg} and 6-2 junior Tracey "She is playing good defense Trgovac (6.3 ppg, 7.7 rpg). and rebounding well." "The difference between this 
Xavier is one of the top year from last is that they have three-point shooting teams in better balance," McGraw said. the country. hitting 37. 7 per­"They are a good perimeter cent of its treys (55-of-146). team. They look to score more The Lady Musketeers' spark­from there than inside." plug is super-sub Kim Blanton, The Irish also sport a bal­a 5-5 senior who is in the top anced attack, led by Karen 
ND faces road test vs. Dayton 
10-7 Flyers present 3 point shooters, pressure defense 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
After a superb 38 minute performance against 18th­ranked Virginia, the Notre Dame men's baketball team will attempt to put together a more complete game tonight when it travels tonight to face the University of Dayton. 
The Flyers (10-7) will present the Irish with a game plan similar to that of Kentucky -an uptempo offensive attack and pressure defense. The key for Notre Dame, however, will be shutting down the triple three­point threat of Chip Jones (37­88, .421 from three-point range), Norm Grevey (59-119, .496), and forward Alex Robertson (27 -92, .293). 
"The first thing we've got to do is stop their three-point shooting," said Irish coach Digger Phelps. "The keys for Dayton have to be to pick them up in their transition because of Jones, Grevey, and Robertson shooting the threes at anytime, anywhere. We'll have to keep them off the boards because of the long shot, long rebound situations created by the three­point shots." 
In the Irish's 97-79 win at the 

19th ranked Irish look to extend conference winning streak vs. Xavier 

Robinson (15.6 ppg, 5.4 assists) and Krissi Davis (12.7 ppg, 6.1 rpg), who will probably draw Campbell fot a defensive assignment. Junior center Margaret Nowlin (10.9 ppg, 6.5 rpg) has come on strong lately, and a good game from her will be· important. 
Notre Dame also matches up well with the Lady Musketeers' fine three-guard rotation of Blanton, Krmpotic, and Trenkamp, countering with Robinson, Coquese Washington 
(7.2 ppg, 5.0 apg) and Sara Liebscher (5.8 ppg, 3.3 rpg). The Irish trio will be key in stopping Xavier's effectiveness from three-point range. 
"For us to win, we've got to stop them on the three-point line, because we don't shoot enough (threes) to compen­sate," McGraw said. 
Joyce ACC last year against the Flyers, center Keith Tower saw a lone minute of action. For the Irish to return from Dayton with a win, the junior center will have to play more like the Tower of late. which included a thrirty-five minute, eight rebound performance against the Cavaliers. 
"That hurt bad when Tower got his fifth foul," said Phelps. "His third, fourth, and fifth fouls were because he left his feet trying to block shots. But I felt he played as well as he's played for us." 
While the return of senior Tim Singleton has notably affected the ballhandling woes that plagued the team during his absence, the Irish (7 -11) hope to keep turnovers to a minimum against the Dayton press and match-up zone. After a single trunover in the first half against Virginia, Notre Dame reached double figures in the second stanza. One of the most crucial miscues came with 11 seconds left, when Singleton overthrow Sweet on an inbounds pass. 
"Timmy's play was an option play," said Phelps. "If he had waited another second, faked a shorter pass inside and then thrown it, I think it would have been a touchdown. You live with that, but it shouldn't hav come down to that situation." 
"We'll have to work the ball and get good shots," said Phelps. "It'll come down to the last two minutes again when you can't turn the ball over and you've got to make the foul shots. That's how you get out of their with a win." 
Although Notre Dame didn't get out of the ACC with a win against Virginia, Phelps likes the attitude of his team despite the troubled times. 
"I think the kids are handling it very well. They're playing their haearts out and doing the things they know how to do. Now they've just got to ice it and get it done with two minutes left in the game." 
If the Irish are ahead in the last two minutes against Dayton, look for one of the upperclassmen to take over the game. The question of who that player will be is a mystery to all, including Phelps. 
"Nobody went out their and took contriol. You can look at the experience out their on the floor with Ellery, Bennet, I Sweet, and Singleton, and not one of those four guys said, "Okay, let's get it done, let's ice it. I think that was something missing, which surprised me." 
If faced with the same situation, others would do as Rocket did 
He's gone. 

He always did seem to reach his destination a few seconds faster than 


everY b o d Y Ken Tysiac else. But World of Sports 
that's what people have come to expect from the man they call "The Rocket." 
Raghib Ismail is going to be criticized by some for leaving Notre Dame a year early for the National Football League. It's going to be worse for him than for others because he is a student at Notre Dame, the university which graduates all of its athletes and places supreme emphasis where it should be-on academics. 
Cynical columnists will come out of the woodwork and tell us that now, even at Notre Dame, student-athletes aren't getting an education. They will rant and rave about how the home of the Fighting Irish is nothing but a football factory, a training ground for the NFL. 
It's just not true. Any reasonable student, put in Ismail's shoes. would decide to jump to the NFL. The former Irish flanker even told the press that one of his dormmates in Grace Hall gave him some advice which shed some light on the subject. 
"Hey Rocket," Ismail quoted a friend as saying. ''I'm an ac­counting major, and if a Big Eight firm were to come up to me and say, 'Excuse me, Mr. Smith, we're going to offer you such-and-such million dollars guaranteed, but in order to get this money you're going to have to come out and forego your college education for a while,' I wouldn't blink an eye about it." 
I couldn't agree more. If a newspaper editor somewhere offered me a million-dollar contract to write sports, but told me I had to start tomorrow, I would catch the first train out of here. 
Those who call themselves "academics" will babble on about the aesthetic value of learning and education, but Ismail has things in much better perspective. 
"Each college student comes to this university to put them­selves in a position where they can get the maximum offer for what they are trying to attain," Ismail said. "We're all here for the same purposes. First and foremost is to get your degree, and I will get my degree, so I don't see any obstacles in the way of that goal, but also I am getting a job, and hopefully I can get the maximum from 
it. .. The salary guidelines which are scheduled to be imple­mented next year would prevent Ismail from doing the best he can for himself and his family. In view of that fact, it is very hard to criticize his decision to jump to the pros. So thanks for the memories, Rocket, and good luck in the NFL. 





