~--~-~ 
! 
I 
1 
1 

VOL. XXIII NO. 106 TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 1991 
~ THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Iraq releases ten allied POWs; others will be freed shortly 
RUWEISHED, Jordan (AP) -
out plans for repatriation of the The first 10 allied prisoners of rest of them," said Andreas war released by Iraq crossed Wigger, the agency's chief crossed the Jordanian border delegate in Baghdad. to freedom Monday, and an Wigger said the Red Cross Iraqi official said all remaining would meet with Iraqi officials POWs could soon be let go. to discuss the repatriation of all 
The 10 freed POWs, including the allied POWs. an American woman, appar­He said that so far, the Red ently were in good condition. Cross did not have access to the 
"They're very happy to be OPERATION other POWs, and did not know here, but they're worried about how many there were.
DESERT STORM
the colleagues they left But Iraq may be prepared to behind," said U.S. Ambassador release the rest of the allied
•

Roger Harrison, who was on POWS.
• Iraqi opposition I page 7
hand to greet the returning Abdul Amir AI·Anbari, Iraqi
• Bush reaction I page 6
POWs in this western ambassador to the United Na­
• Gulf daily roundup I page 7
Jordanian city. tions, said the release of the 
They then were flown to a remaining POWs could come as Jordanian air force base near Red Cross. early as Tuesday, but problems Amman, where the six Ameri­Wearing yellow jumpsuits such as whether air facilities cans boarded a Air Force C-141 bearing white and red badges are available must first be transport plane scheduled to fly with the letters "PW" on their worked out. to Bahrain, officials said. U.S. shoulders and backs, they de­The allies have said that at officials said the Americans will parted Baghdad by road after least 13 prisoners were taken board a U.S. hospital ship, the being handed over to Red Cross by Iraq during the Persian Gulf Mercy, off Bahrain. representatives. War, and that more than 
The plans for the other In Jordan, they were exam­60,000 Iraqis were taken pris­former POWS -three Britons ined and given bread, cheese oner. and one Italian -was not im­and oranges. Then they There were also dozens of al­mediately clear. changed into gray track suits, lied troops listed as missing by 
Earlier Monday, the 10 left Harrison said. the Pentagon. the Iraqi capital of Baghdad "The first batch of allied In Saudi Arabia, the U.S. after receiving Swiss choco­prisoners of war was only made Command said 300 Iraqi POWs 
lates, Pepsi Cola, cheesburgers as a good-will gesture by the and a medical check by the In­Iraqis and they have to work ternational Committee of the see POWs/page 6 
Senate approves proposal to bring in a national band for An Tostal 
By DAVID KINNEY Tostal are currently attempting government bylaws that will next week. Clubs not repaying the loan in News Writer to book a national act to allow the Club Coordination the stated time period will be perform a free concert in Council to use $3,000 worth of The fund, according to Stark, subject to a variety of punish­
Student Senate approved a Stepan Center on April 27. unspent club funds to provide is intended to allow organiza­ments, including loss of loan n~quest by the Student Union Although committee members small, short-term, interest-free tions to run t-shirt sales, con­privileges, referral to the Sen­Hoard (SUH) to book a national are still debating over which act loans for clubs and organiza­cession stands, student produc­ate Ethics Committee, or late music act for An Tostal. and to hire, the senate granted the tions. tions, and other specific fund­payment fees. discussed a proposal that would request by unanimous consent. The Club Coordination Coun­raising events. The document 
allow the Club Coordination The act will cost between cil would determine the terms emphasizes that "clubs applying The Senate also presented Council to grant loans to clubs. $5,000-$12,000. of repayment and the time pe­for money must be expected to nominations for the Irish Clover According to Erin Lavelle, Jeff Stark, club coordinator, riod of the loans. have the ability to repay the Award and the Student SUB manager, the board and An proposed an addition to student The proposal will voted on loan." Leadership Award. 

The Observer announces its 1991-92 General Board 
By MEGAN JUNIUS Observer's Managing Editor. News Writer Eric Bailey will continue to serve as The Observer's Photo 
Thn 1991-92 General Board Editor. a position he has held for The Observer has been an­since 1989. He is a junior at NO nouneed by Editor-in-Chief­from Crystal Lake, Ill., and an nlm:t Kelley Tuthill. English major. 
Moniea Yant. a sophomore at Emily Willett, a junior at thtl University of Notre Dame Saint Mary's, will serve as the from Fort Wayn(l, Ind., has new Saint Mary's Editor. She been named News Editor. She carries a double major of eco­is an American Studies major nomics and business with a and is currnntly an Associate concentration in finance and a News Editor at The Observer. minor in math. Willett is from 
.Joseph Moody, an ND Crown Point, Ind., and cur­sophomore English major. has rently serves a sports writer for bem1 selected as the Viewpoint The Observer. Editor. lie is an Assistant News Julie Sheridan, a junior ac­Editor from South Bend, Ind. counting major at ND. has been 
David Dintmnan, an ND junior selected as the Advertising from Erie, Penn., has been Manager. She is from Phoenix, named Sports Editor. He is a Az., and currently serves as an junior philosophy major with a advertising salesperson. concentration in Medieval Alissa Murphy, a Saint Mary's Studies, and currently serves as junior from Manchester, a Sports Copy Editor. Missouri, will serve as the Ad 
John O'Brien, an ND junior Design Manager. She is a com­
Remains of the ground war
from Oak Lawn, Ill., has been munications major with a mi­

snlected as the Accent Editor.  nor in professional writing and  An American soldier from the 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment examines a destroyed T-55 Iraqi tank at  
lie is an Amerkan Studies ma­ currently  serves  as  a  Day  a captured Iraqi air force base Friday about 356 miles northwest of Basra. Iraq.  
jor and currently serves as The  Editor.  

.-----------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------, 
page 2 



INSIDE COLUMN 

Random thoughts of springtime 
Spring is in the air, sort------------­

of. At least Spring Break is 
in the air. It is a time for 
rejoicing, contemplation, 
and introspection. It's the 
perfect time for random , 
thoughts, quips and 
potshots about Notre 

Dame, and the world Robyn Simmons beyond the Dome: Asst. Accent Editor 
• Why don't people just call Stepan Chemistry Hall, Nieuwland Science Hall and Riley Hall of Art & Design something like StepNieuwLey since it's one big building anyway? 
Of course, if you tried to do same thing for the dorms, the residents of KeenFord would probably object strenuously. 
• 
People who use handicapped parking spaces illegally should be thrown down a flight of stairs so they can use them legally. 

• 
If you can't quote lines of dialogue from Spinal Tap and Monty Python films in an exaggerated British accent, don't bother quoting them at all. 

• 
Since the war ended sooner than ex­pected, the manufacturers who cranked out thousands of Operation Desert Storm T-shirts, buttons, and other "Go, Team" paraphernalia will be unable to capitalize on the deaths of young soldiers any more. Maybe these manufacturers can make up for the loss by making shirts that celebrate things like plane crashes or earthquakes. 

• 
When the temperature dips below zero on nights when students are walking to Senior Bar, the parking lot behind the stadium expands to ten times its original size. 

• 
If you ask your friends what is their fa­vorite Brady Bunch episode involving Marcia, nine out of ten of them will say, "The one where Marcia got hit in the nose by a football." Try it some time. 

• 
Let me see if I got this straight: the Gulf War was not a war for oil, like all the war protestors were saying, but gas prices have plummeted since the fighting has ended. Gee, I don't see any connection. 

• 
CNN has become the MTV of the 1990s. 

• 
There is no such thing as a good Neil Diamond song. 

• 
There is no such thing as an original Vanilla Ice song. 

• 
Memo from the U.S. postal service: All regular mail will arrive at final destination within two to three days after mailing. All mail containing job offers and grad school acceptances will be delivered approximately two months after mailing, or until the recip­ient has taken up residence inside the actual mailbox, whichever comes first. 

• 
How's this for an advertising campaign? The 1991 BMW: the car of the Business major. The 1973 Chevy Nova: the car of the Arts and Letters major. 

• 
Is it just me, or did everybody want Vicky to be thrown overboard on The Love Boat? 

• 
Paris, London, South Bend, Rome. One of these things is not like the other... 

• 
Only 7 5 days until graduation. 


Today's  Staff:  Sports  Graphics  
Rene Ferran  Mike Muldoon  
News  Scoreboard:  
Lauren Aquino  Anthony King  Lab Tech  
Kate Manuel  Dave McMahon  David Lee  
Megan Junius  
Production  Photographers  
Accent  Wendy Cunningham  Eliza Klosterman  
Michael Krause  Karen Newlove  Andrew McCloskey  
Pat Kusak  
Ad Design  Viewpoint  John Studebaker  
Amy Eckert  Brian Stalter  Ken Osgood  
Dannika Simpson  
Joy Mueller  Systems  Circulation  
Luke Lytell  Chris Caracciolo  Kathleen O'Conner  
Jennifer McCarter  Patrick Barth  John O'Brian  
Alison Cocks  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press, All reproduction rights are reserved, 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Protestant group kills four Catholics 
•BELFAST, Northern Ireland -An outlawed Protestant paramilitary group claimed responsibility Monday for shooting and killing four Roman Catholic men and seriously wounding a fifth at a village pub in Northern Ireland. The Royal Ulster Constabulary said two men were being questioned about the Sunday night attack in Cappagh, 50 miles west of Belfast. In other incidents, gunmen killed a Roman Catholic taxi driver in Belfast late Monday, and a British soldier died of injuries from an Irish Republican Army rocket attack last week, police said. 
Highway wreck causes 18 deaths 
•QUERETARO, Mexico -A fiery crash involving two buses and a tractor trailer truck loaded with flammable painting supplies, killed at least 18 people Monday, officials said. Many of the dead could not be immediately identified because their bodies were badly burned. Seventy-two people were injured. The paints and thinners on the truck ignited after the truck collided with a bus that was attempting pass it. The second bus was following close behind and rammed into the burning wreckage, said a spokesman for the Queretaro state prosecutor, Jose Antonio Leon Razo. The accident occurred near the capital city of Queretaro on a highway 125 miles northwest of Mexico City. 

OF INTEREST 
Student Art Forum Elections will be held at 6:45 p.m. in the Snite. This is a mandatory meeting for all members, in order to elect next year's officers. 
The Holy Cross Associates will be holding an infor-
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 4, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
199.83 Million 202.08 "i!t 0.31 

S&P COMPOSITE 

369.33 + 1.14 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 

2,914.11 .. 4.21 
PRECIOUS METALS 

GOLD "1} $1.00 to $ 369.50oz. SILVER fr 8.2¢ to$ 3.856/oz. 
Tuesday, March 5. 1991 
Cloudy and 
warm today. Highs in the upper 50s. Chance of showers tonight. Lows in the upper 
30s. Cloudy and 
cooler Wednesday. High in the 40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
H L 
50 41 60 35 60 40 30 20 62 39 63 46 30 24 78 61 61 39 61 39 52 41 66 56 63 41 82 66 28 10 63 44 65 43 57 43 73 55 57 47 66 39 37 25 61 58 38 23 57 36 
65 55 


NATIONAL 
Government investigates Accord locks 
•wASHINGTON -The government's auto safety agency said Monday it was stepping up a probe of reports that the passenger-side door lock of the 1990 Honda Accord jams, preventing riders from getting out of the car. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said it was reclassifying the investigation as an engineering analysis, in which the possibly defective parts will be studied. The probe was opened last year as a paperwork investigation.The agency and manufacturer have received 116 complaints between them, agency spokesman Tim Hurd said. "We are treating it as a possible safety defect because if it appeared in an emergency, you couldn't get out," he said.A total of 185,212 of the cars are on the road. A Honda spokeswoman declined to comment. 
Bush to nominate procurement chief 
•WASHINGTON -President Bush will nominate Donald Jay Yockey as the Pentagon's procurement chief, the White House said Monday. The post has been vacant since John Betti abruptly resigned as undersecretary of defense for acquisition in December after Defense Secretary Dick Cheney cancelled the Navy's A-12 stealth attack plane because of cost overruns. Yockey joined the Pentagon last year as deputy undersecretary of defense for acquisition, No. 2 to Betti, after a long career as a Rockwell International executive and 19 years in the Air Force. The promotion to undersecretary requires Senate confirmation. 
mational meeting for all seniors interested in the 1991-92 HCA program at 7 p.m. in the Coffeehouse at the Center for Social Concerns. Applications for the 1991-92 HCA program are due March 20. For more information, please contact Mary Ann White at 239-5521. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1770: The "Boston Massacre" took place as British soldiers, who had been taunted by a crowd ot colonists opened fire, killing several people. 

• 
In 1933: In Germany, the Nazi Party won a majority of seats in parliamentary elections. 


• 
In 1946: Former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, during an address at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri, spoke of an "Iron Curtain" stretching from the Baltic to the Adriatic. 

• 
Five years ago: Former U.N, Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim denied any part in Nazi war crimes in the wake of stories raising questions about his World War II service in a German army unit. 


Tuesday, March 5, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Notre Dame faculty members discuss grants,sponsorships 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
The difficult task of obtaining grants and sponsorships for research was addressed by members of the Notre Dame faculty Monday. 
Thomas Mueller, chairman of the department of aerospace mechanical engineering, put the res1~arch money situation sim­ply: "There's no giveaway pro­gram, no pot of gold, no lottery. No one's going to knock on your door and ask you if you want money." 
MuHller, speaking at the Graduate Student Union-spon­sored lecture "Research Money-How to Get It," told in­tBrested graduate students about how to obtain grants and sponsorships for research. 
"The successful project is built upon innovativ11 ideas, qualified individuals and insti­tutional capability," he said. 
Jennifer Glass, associate pro­fessor of sociology, suggested that first-time researchers co­write their proposals with a faculty member. Glass said that the faculty member's name "will get the grant proposal more favorable notice on the first pass." 
Glass added that the selection of the right partner is crucial. "If you get the money," she said, "you'll be forced into a collaborational situation with them." 
Mueller agreed with this assessment, calling working with a colleague "akin to get­ting married. The trouble is, you don't know if you're incom­patible until you're in the mid­dle of your research." 
People seeking grants, Mueller said, should start on 
their proposals early. "Even 
though you have Federal Ex­
press, it's not going to help you 
if you start late on your first few 
proposals." 

Mueller also said that the proposal itself should be phrased positively. "Show the person reading it that you think _this proposal will work," he ad­
vised. 
In the end, Glass said that 
perseverance is important to 
the person seeking research 
money. "You're going to need 
exposure and reputation before 
you get some of the more pres­
tigious grants," she said. 
Mueller also concluded by emphasizing the importance of a positive attitude and perse­verance. "Your chances of suc­cess the first or second time are probably very small, but you've got to keep trying." 


Ethics in action Macy Hueckei!The Observer John Houck, Co-Director of Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, explains a principle during a lecture on "Ethics in Business," Monday in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Tribal rivalries erupt in Soweto; 24 are killed in hand-to-hand battles 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Tribal rivalries broke out in violence at a workers' hostHl in the black township of Soweto, where at least 24 people died in hand-to­hand battles between Zulus and Xhosas, police said Monday. 
There were 15 injuries in Sunday's fighting. 
The battle probably was tied to the murder of a Zulu found Friday in the hostel, police said. Another factor may have been that some hostel dwellers wore pro-ANC T-shirts, The Star newspaper of Johannesburg said. 
It quoted a hostel resident as saying an argument broke out between Zulus and Xhosas on Sunday, after a Zulu demanded T-shirts bearing the African National Congress logo be banned from the hostel. 
Zulus comprise the largest of South Africa's tribes and are the main support for the lnkatha Freedom Party, the ANC's bitter rival. Most Xhosas support the ANC. 
A s1mior police officer, who declined to be named, said Zu­lus stormed through the Mead­owlands Hostel, hacking and spearing members of the Xhosa tribe. People were killed as they tried to flee, and others were attacked in toilets or in rooms where they had been eating and sleeping, witnesses said. 
"There are bodies every­where. Many were trying to run when they were cut down," said a local reporter. Police did not say how many victims were Xhosas or how many were Zu­lus. 
The ANC released a statement Monday evening accusing police of harassing fleeing hostel dwellers and escorting the at­tackers, and it demanded an independent commission to in­vestigate the claim. 
The ANC and Inkatha each have accused security forces of supporting the opposing side. Police say they are impartial. 
It was the worst case of fac­tional fighting this year in Soweto, a sprawling township of 2.5 million people on the edge of Johannesburg. 
Battles last year in Johannes­burg townships killed more than 1,000 people, and 5,000 people have died nationwide in factional violence the past five years. 
Heavily armed police with armored vehicles surrounded the hostel Monday, and police reported no new incidents. A police helicopter hovered over­head as police piled the bodies of the dead. There were no ar­rests. 
In other developments: 
-Two members of the pro­apartheid Afrikaner Resistance Movement pleaded guilty Mon­day to seven counts of murder and 27 counts of attempted murder in the Oct. 9 ambush of a bus in Durban. A third defen­dant pleaded innocent. 
Police believe the attack was in revenge for a knife attack earlier that day on whites along Durban's beaches. Eight whites were stabbed, one fatally, by black assailants. All the victims of the bus ambush were black. 
-Police said Monday shots were fired at an ANC leader, 

GSU ELECTIONS 1991 Graduate Students 




Vote 
for your 1991-92 Leaders 
Make a difference!! Vote at these Voting Stations: 
!.IBRARY CO:SCO!IRSE 
Biological Sciences Mathematics Chemistry & Biochemistry Physics Medieval Institute Psychology MSA Program 
Votin is Tuesda 
lllC!JSH!NG 
Economics Aero & Mechanical Eng English Architecture Art Chemical Engineering Music/Music & Liturgy Materials Science Eng 
German and Russian Electrical Engineering Government Peace Institute History & Pilosophy of Sc Civil Engineering History Philosophy Romance Languages & Lits Sociology Theology American Studies Classical & Oriental Languages 
March 5 1991, 10:00 am to 2:00 pm 
Harry Gwala, during a rally in Natal Province. The assassina­tion attempt was Saturday, and the attackers fled. 
Natal Province, southeast of Johannesburg, has been the center of bitter fighting be­tween ANC and Inkatha sup­porters. The fighting spread to the Johannesburg area in Au­gust. 
The ANC-Inkatha conflict re­volves around traditional tribal hostility and ideological and po­litical differences. 
The ANC and Inkatha both oppose apartheid, but differ over plans for a non-apartheid South Africa. 
lnkatha is more conservative than the ANC, opposing sanc­tions and supporting a capitalist economy. The ANC supports sanctions to force an end to apartheid and says some state involvement is needed to redis­tribute wealth and land among the black majority. 
Also Monday, the nation's biggest anti-apartheid group, the United Democratic Front, announced it will disband and focus on helping build up the ANC. 
The multiracial coalition of youth groups, trade unions, re­ligious groups and political parties, was formed in August 1983. 
A change in its status had been expected, because the legalization last year of opposi­tion groups such as the ANC erased the need for a mass anti-apartheid coalition. 
American Heart Association 



INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE 
DOOLEY ROOM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
MARCH 4-8 
10:00 A.M. -4:00 P.M. 
• Portfolio Bags  •Coffee Mugs  
•Short Sleeve Polo Shirts  •Cotton Sweaters  
•Cotton & Velour Blankets  •Sweatshirts  
•Official Miami T-Shirts  •NO Rub-ons  

You won't find better prices anywhere! Great Gifts for Spring Break and Easter!! 
The Observer 

page4 Tuesday, March 5, 1991 
Sudafed previously tainted 
SEATTLE (AP) Questions arose Monday over why the public wasn't warned when the first case of tampering with Sudafed 12 Hour decongestant capsules was suspected a month ago. 
A man and a woman died after taking capsules that authorities said may have been tainted with cyanide. Another woman was recovering. All three cases were in the Tacoma­Olympia area. 
The first case -the non­fatal one -was reported to local police and eventually the FBI in early February. 
But the first public warnings weren't issued regionally until Saturday. Manufacturer Burroughs Wellcome Go. of Research Triangle Park, N.C., on Sunday voluntarily ordered a nationwide recall. 
"We want to know why these alerts were not out sooner," Judy Arnold, coroner in Thurston County, where the first case was handled, said Monday. 
Meanwhile, a suspect capsule found Sunday by a Tacoma woman was sent to an FBI laboratory in Washington, D.C., for analysis, and thousands of containers of the medicine were being examined at Food and Drug Administration laboratories in Seattle. 
FBI agent Dick Thurston said the contents of the single capsule appeared to have been tampered with. Authorities gave no possible motive for the tampering. 
Thurston said the four Sudafed packages came from different stores. Despite the nationwide recall, he said the case didn't appear to go beyond the Tacoma-Olympia area. 
FDA spokeswoman Susan Hutchcraft said Sudafed 12 Hour capsules were still on some shelves. "I don't know how stores have missed the news, but some apparently have," she said Monday. 
The first case occurred Feb. 2 when 28-year-old Jennifer Meling of Tumwater went into a coma. She is recovering. 
Her doctor. Hian Pouw, said he warned Thurston County authorities two days later that he suspected cyanide poisoning, and that he believed the poison was in a tainted Sudafed capsule. 
Meling's husband, Joe Meling, said he, too, questioned why capsules were not pulled off the shelves earlier. 
Tumwater Police Detective Jeff Oehlerich said authorities first considered the case one of attempted murder. But no signs of tampering with the other capsules in the container were. evident at the Meling household, he said. 
He said the Drug Emporium store in Olympia, where the capsules were purchased, emptied its shelves of Sudafed 12 Hour, and boxes were sent to the manufacturer for examination. 
Pro-independence movements win elections in Baltics 
MOSCOW (AP) -Baltic lead­ers said Monday the over­whelming pro-independence votes in Latvia and Estonia should encourage their people to continue struggling against the Kremlin. 
In Sunday's referendums. nearly 78 percent of voters in Estonia and 74 percent in Latvia called for independence from the Soviet Union. accord­ing to official results released Monday. 
"Hopefully the referendum result will provide courage and 

• Soviet aid I page 5 
serve as an example to all democratic forces which, within the past two or three months, have had to beat a temporary retreat in the Soviet Union," Estonian Foreign Minister Lennart Meri told reporters in Tallinn, the Estonian capital. 
"These plebiscites are signed ... in blood," former Lithuanian Prime Minister Kazimiera Prunskiene told Baltic support­ers at a rally in Sweden. She was referring to the Soviet mili­tary crackdown that has cost 22 lives in Lithuania and Latvia this year. 
In Brussels, Belgium, the 12­member European Community agreed in principle Monday to restore more than $1 billion in Soviet food aid withheld after the Baltic crackdown. 
The ministers issued a state­ment expressing satisfaction that Soviet authorities did not interfere with Sunday's refer­endums. Final approval of the 

THAT THE UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRRION SHOUlD OFFICIAl~ RECOGNIZE THE GAYAND lESBIAN ClUB RNOTRE DAME 
LYONS vs ST. EDIS 

aid may be made Tuesday. 
The ministers also decided to reopen talks with Soviet offi­cials on a $540 million techni­cal assistance package. 
President Mikhail Gorbachev and other top officials in Moscow had no public reaction to the referendum results. 
"Gorbachev has not commented on it, but his attitude is well known," said a presidential spokesman, Sergei Grigoriev. "He considers it judicially invalid." 


TUESDAY, MARCH 5TH 
9PM • LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
A RECEPTION WILL FOLLOW 


Tuedsay, March 5, 1991 The Observer page 5 

Foreign ministers restore aid to U.S.S.R. 
BHUSSELS. Belgium (AP) ­The 12-member European Community agreed in principle Monday to restore more than $1 billion in food aid to the So­viHt Union. The aid was with­held after a bloody crackdown in the Baltic republics. 
"There are no more political obstacles on the way for the help," German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher told n~porters after a meeting of the EC foreign ministers. 
The ministers issued a state­ment expressing satisfaction that Soviet authorities had not interfered with referendums held Sunday in Latvia and Estonia. Latvians and Estonians votPd overwhelmingly for independence in the non-bind­ing referendums; Lithuania did the same thing last month. 
"These results cannot be ig­nored," the ministers said. "(We) urge an early opening of a serious and constructive dia­logue between the central gov­ernment of the USSR and the elected Baltic authorities." 
The ministers also decided to reopen talks with Soviet offi­cials on a $540 million package of technical assistance and asked the EC executive commis­sion to draft a detailed pro­posal. 
Final approval of the food aid awaits the outcome of a Tues­day meeting between EC gov­ernment representatives and members of the European Par­liament to work out technical problems. 
The two sides have bickered over where to find money for the aid in the 1991 EC budget. An EC official, who demanded anonymity, said they would probably agree to restore the original total and offer the aid without further delay. 
The aid approved by the min­isters includes $338 million in emergency food deliveries this year and $6 7 5 million in credits for food purchases next year. It was originally approved by EC national leaders at a summit in Rome last December. 
The EC suspended all its So­viet aid programs in January after violent crackdowns on in­dependence movements in Latvia and Lithuania left 22 people dead. 
Student Union Board Presents: 
A Lecture 


by 

Professor Walter Williams 
•Author 
of The State Against Blacks, America: A Minority Viewpoint, All It Takes is Guts, and South Africa's War Against Capitalism 

• 
Has appeared in The New Republic, National Review, Policy Review, American Economic Review, and on William F. Buckley's Firing Line, ABC's Nightline, and CBS' Face the Nation 


"Race and Sex Discrimination in the Economy" Tuesday, March 5, 1991 
7:30pm Washington Hall 
'Black boxes' may yield clues to crash 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (AP) -Workers dug with heavy equipment and by hand Monday to extricate pieces of a commercial jetliner that plunged nose-first into the ground and exploded, killing all 25 people on board. 
Flight 585, with 20 passen­gers and a crew of five, crashed for unknown reasons Sunday on approach to the Colorado Springs Municipal Airport. 
It nose-dived in the center of a community park. narrowly missing a nearby apartment complex and houses. 
Investigators found the cock­pit voice recorder and the flight data recorder -the so-called "black boxes"-and sent them to Washington for analysis, said Brent Bahler, a National Transportation Safety Board spokesman. 
Workers used their hands and heavy equipment, including a crane and a fire truck, to recover parts of the twin-engine Boeing 737-200 and remains of the victims. 
"We're making slow but steady progress in the initial stage of the investigation," said an NTSB investigator, John Lauber. "We're working in the impact crater. It is necessary to proceed literally by hand." 
Investigators dug six feet and recovered parts of both engines by midday Monday, Lauber said. He said the parts would help investigators determine if the engines were running at the time of impact. 
Air traffic controllers warned the pilot of strong wind gusts just before the plane crashed. The National Weather Service reported gusts of 32 mph. 
Such gusts can cause an ef­fect known as wind shear. which can reduce a plane's air speed and make it impossible to maintain flight. 
Lauber refused to speculate on whether wind shear caused the accident. Investigators are not focusing on one cause, he said. 
"We have a big puzzle on our hands," Lauber said. 
A list of passengers and crew was released Monday. The pilot was not identified, pending no­tification of relatives. Three members of the U.S. Olympic organization, two sports scien­tists and a cycling coach, were among those on board. 
The airline flew family mem­bers of the victims to Colorado Springs, United spokesman Joe Hopkins said. Most of the vic­tims lived in Colorado Springs. 
The plane. en route from Denver, was on final approach 

Length: 119ft. 7 ln. 
Wingspan: 94ft. 9 ln. 
Engines: Two turbofans 
mounted under wings 
Range: About 2,500 miles 
Passengers: 146·168 
Built by: Boeing Commercial 
Aircraft Co., SeaHie 
Introduced: 1988 
Soorce.· Jane~ All llle World~ Aircrah 
AP 

to the airport when it banked sharply and veered into the ground. witnesses said. 
Witness Bill Ferguson likened the plane's descent to "a dive­bombing mission." 

"It just came down like a missile. like a rocket." said Mark Krueger, who had joggPd across Widefield Community Park less than a minute before the crash. 
"There was a huge 11reball, black smoke and orange flames," said Leo Martinez, an­other witness. 
Authorities said either the pi­lot did a brilliant job of dodging the houses or was incredibly lucky. 
"Whoever the pilot was, he was thinking of me," said Charlie Barker, who lives on the edge of the park. "lie could have set it down in my living room." 
In the only reported injury on the ground, Michelle Summer­son. 12. was thrown back from the doorway of her home by the impact of the crash. She was treated at a hospital and re­leased. 
American Heart t!"a Association V 

rnJrurprpw lf3u 1r~rru~~w ~llilllil [~~1![il)UC9car~) 
OO®rm~oo ~eep tktt ~<U#Ute 

Love, Mom, Dad, Chris, John 
r-­
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 6 Tuesday, March 5, 1991 
Bush pleased with release of POWs, but says more needed 

r r r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
f 
f 
POWs 
continued from page 1 
would be freed Tuesday. The statement said the time and place of the release had yet to be determined. 
Red Cross representatives in the Saudi capital of Riyadh, however, said they foresaw some problems, including mak­ing sure that the Iraqi POWs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush welcomed the release of a first group of allied prisoners Monday as "progress in our journey from war to peace" but said Iraq must keep moving and set free all prisoners of war and detained Kuwaitis. 
Bush said that the allied coalition still intends to hold Iraq to all U.N. resolutions and that compliance could help the allies move beyond the suspen­sion of hostilities to a "more permanent and stable cease­fire." He declared, "We have a lot to do to heal the wounds." 
Administration officials said Bush would soon embark on a series of face-to-face meetings with leaders of the anti-Iraq coalition to discuss maintaining peace in the Middle East in the postwar period. 
Presidential spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said Bush would meet with Canadian Prime Min­ister Brian Mulroney in Ottawa on March 13 and with French Prime Minister Francois Mit­terrand the following day on Martinique. a French island in the Caribbean. 
Bush will also meet with Bri­tish Prime Minister John Major "at a western hemisphere loca­tion yet to be determined," Fitzwater said. 
Secretary of State James Baker Ill leaves on Wednesday for a postwar diplomatic mis­sion to the Middle East and the Soviet Union. 
Bush, in a speech to veterans, hailed the victory over Iraq as "a triumph" and said it was a time to be "fiercely proud" of 
U.S. and allied troops. 
Later, in remarks to student winners of a national science contest, Bush praised high­technology U.S. weapons used in the war and said of the U.S. men and women in the gulf: "The welfare of our troops was our top priority in the war and as we forge a new peace, all of them will be on our minds until 
actually want to go home. allied soldier listed as missing "I'm going to hug him. I don't 
"Something will happen in in action, and Navy navigator­know if I'm ever going to let the next 24 hours," Jean­bombardier Lt. Jeffrey Norton him go." Claude Mulli, medical Zaun, 28, of Cherry Hill, N.J. The Red Cross identified the coordinator agency in Riyadh, "We're going to have one other released Americans as said Monday, "but you can't heck of a 21st birthday party Army Spc. David Lockett, 23, of expect it all to go as planned. I for her when she's home," Fort Bliss, Texas, who was wouldn't even want to say the Rathbun-Nealy's mother, Joan captured with Rathburn-Nealy; figure is 300, as that might Rathbun, said in Michigan. Air Force Maj. Thomas Griffith, raise false expectations." "Our prayers were an­34, of Goldsboro, N.C.; and 
Among those released Mon­swered," Zaun 's mother, Mar­Navy lieutenants Robert day were Army Spc. Melissa jorie, said in Cherry Hill, N.J., Wetzel, 30, and Lawrence Rathbun-Nealy, 20, of Grand shortly after spotting him on Randolph Slade, 26, both of 
\/i-,_.n.,..., .... u ........ '"h \T....
Rapids, Mid' .·~he 'lnly female talm-ision. . na...... •• , 
--~ 

Three newways to survive college. 
all of them are back home." 
"Today all of us are especially grateful that 10 coalition POWs, including several Americans, are on their way back home. And our remaining POWs should not be far behind," Bush said. 
Bush told the 50th anniver­sary banquet of the Westing­house Science Talent Search that the Persian Gulf was the real-life testing ground for "the high-tech equipment that has served our military so well." 
"Thank God that when the Scuds came, the people of Israel and Saudi Arabia had more to protect them than some abstract theory of deterrence," Bush said. "Go to Riyadh or Tel • Aviv. A theory didn't protect its citizens. Patriot missiles born of technology did." 
Bush and other officials said that, despite the return of the first prisoners of war, it was not a time to let Baghdad off the hook. 

The Britons were identified as Malcolm Graham MacGown, Lt. John Peters and Ian Robert Pring, and the Italian as Capt. Maurizio Cocciolone. 
Zaun, whose A-6 Intruder went down on the first day of the war, and Cocciolone had been among POWs shown on television after their capture. Appearing badly battered, they recited wooden-sounding statements critical of the allied war effort. 

With Apple's introduction of three new Macintosh~ computers, meeting the challenges ofcollege life just got awhole lot easier. Because now; everybody can afford aMacintosh. 
The is our most affordable model, yet it comes with everything you need­including ahard disk drive.The Nl!ii@IIOI combines color capabilities with affordability And the 11@Nii!Mldll9 is perfea for students who need a computer with extra power and expandability 
No matter which Madntosh you choose, you'll have acomputer that lightens your work load without giving you another tough subjea to learn. Every Madntosh computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And when you've learned one program, you're well on your way to learning them all. That's because thousands ofavail­able programs all work in the same, consistent manner. You can even share information with someone who uses a different type ofcomputer-thanks to Apple's versatile SuperDrive~ which reads from and writes to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple"II floppy disks. 
See the new Macintosh computers for yourself, and find out how surviving college just got awhole lot easier. 
NOTRE DAME COl\'IPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00-5:00 
•'.~~ The power to be your besC 
Cl1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are reg•stered trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. SuperDrive and "The power to be your best" are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic IS a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc MS~DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Tuesday, March 5, 1991 page 7 
Republican Guard cracks down on revolting Iraqis 
SAFWAN. Iraq (AP)-Iraq's lh~publican Guard launched a lieree crackdown on protesters demanding the overthrow of Saddam llussnin and the estab­lishmtmt of an Islamic republic in Iraq, witnesses said Monday. 
The Guard. which was routed hy allied troops last week. was reported to bt~ turning some of its remaining tanks and guns on the demonstrators, who are apparently disgusted with Sad­darn's handling of the Gulf War and sense that he may be vul­nerable. 
There were reports of protesters killing government officials. including the mayor of Basra. a governor, and a son of Sad dam. 
Witnesses said demonstra­tions had erupted in at least eight Iraqi cities, stretching from Iraq's second-largest city, Basra. to the holy city of Ker­hala in central Iraq. 
Pentagon officials said the 
U.S. military has reports of un­rnst in Basra and at least five other Iraqi cities: An Najaf, AI Arnarah. Az Zubayr, AI Kumayt and Qalat Salih. 
Lt. Gen. Thomas Kelly told n~porters in Washington that the unrest could slow the re­lnase of Anwrican POWs and thn withdrawal of U.S. forces. 
"Unless it became very seri-
Injured, but safe 

Saddam Hussein 
ous, I don't think we'd inter­vene," he said. 
Witnesses claimed that in some places the Iraqi troops were shooting women and chil­drnn. 
"The special forces are de­stroying everything in front of them. If anybody shouts from a building they knock it down," said Mahar Hakawati, 24, a Jordanian photographer who carne to Kuwait from Basra. 
Hakawati said he saw Repub­lican Guard tanks moving through the streets of the southern Iraqi port town, dev­astated twice in a decade by wars initiated by Saddam. He said the military had sur­rounded the city. 
Many people in Basra ap-



Source: U.S. Department of Defense AP 
peared to have guns taken from 
police stations, and rumors that 
Saddam fled the country 
sparked celebrations in the city, 
he said. 
Gunmen shot up portraits of 
the Iraqi president, he said. 
Iran's official Islamic Repub­
lic News Agency, monitored in 
Nicosia, Cyprus, reported five 
explosions at midday in Basra. 
It said refugees fleeing the vio­
lence were streaming into Iran 
across the border at Shalam­
cheh. 
It quoted refugees as saying 
AP Photo 

Sad dam's eldest son, Udai, was 
killed in the battle at Basra, 
along with a provincial gover­
nor and the mayor. 
Refugees reaching this town just north of Kuwait, most of them Kuwaitis trying to return home, said demonstrators were marching in Nasiriyah, Shutra, Suq ash Shuyukh, Imara, Samawah and Kut, mostly in southern Iraq. 
The refugees identified the holy city of Karbala as the northernmost town wracked by protest. In the city, south of Baghdad, protesters slashed X's across portraits of Saddam and flung mud at them, said two men who left the town on Saturday. 
Witnesses said rioters looted government warehouses before setting them alight and at­tacked prisons, government of­fices or vehicles and the offices of Sad dam's ruling Arab Baath Socialist Party in numerous towns. 
The Baath governor of Nasiriyah was reportedly gunned down by demonstra­tors, and police fought pitched battles with them in the streets, refugees said. 
"There was a lot of death. The police were killing the op­position, and there were many injured on both sides," said Ali Ycoub, a 32-year-old Kuwaiti policeman sprung from a jail in Nasiriyah on Sunday aftflr the opposition battered down the doors. Yacoub said he had been held there with about 500 other Kuwaitis since November. 
Refugees said many of the ri­oters didn't know how long they could maintain control of government buildings seized during demonstrations. 
In Nasiriyah, "many said they did not have the ammunition to continue, they also have no gas," said Yacoub. 
Reliable sources said soldiers anxious to flee southern Iraq are exchanging their weapons for transportation. 
The same sources said that Iraq has fired its general direc­tor of security, Abdul Rahman Aldour, charging him with neg­ligence in the exercise of his duties. 
The witnesses here said demonstrators in Basra have started carrying portraits of Mohammad Bakr Al-Hakim, a prominent Shiite clergyman that runs an opposition group from Iran. 
"They want an Islamic Re­public. . . . There are many pic­tures of Imam Ali," said Sabah Abed, a 35-year-old Iraqi who had worked as an ambulance driver in Kuwait. 

POWs head to freedom; troubles reported in Iraq 
After a cheeseburger lunch, six Americans, three Britons and an Italian headed out from Baghdad to Jordan and a real taste of freedom Monday, end­ing weeks as prisoners of war. 
Iraq's U.N. ambassador said all remaining allied prisoners could be freed as soon as Tues­day. 
In southern Iraqi cities, meanwhile, Islamic fundamen­talists and others bent on oust­ing President Saddam Hussein were reported locked in street battles with Saddam's loyalist Republican Guard in the angry aftermath of the Persian Gulf conflict. 
Refugee and exile sources said rioters killed the provincial governor and mayor of Basra, Iraq's embattled second city. 
Gen. Colin Powell, in Wash­ington, again made clear that the U.S. administration looks forward to a Saddam-less Iraq. 
"We hope a regime will emerge in Baghdad that is committed finally to living in peace with its neighbors," the Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman told a Veterans of Foreign Wars convention. 
Diplomatic calendars were fast filling up as the victors in war seek to set the course of peace. 
The White House announced President Bush will meet one­on-one with allied leaders in the coming weeks to develop a blueprint for long-term stability in the Persian Gulf. 
Arab foreign ministers con­cluded one mP.etinl!' in s~nuli Arabia on Monday and planned another for Syria this week to set an Arab agenda for the peace. Secretary of State James Baker III will leave Washington Wednesday to visit Mideast capitals to discuss postwar is­sues with allied leaders. 
Monday was the fifth day of a cease-fire that ended the light­ning war in which U.S. and al­lied forces reversed Iraq's seven-month occupation of Kuwait and devastated the once-powerful Iraqi army. 
American troops pressed on with cease-fire chores of locat­ing and removing thousands of land and marine mines laid by the Iraqis, and other U.S. sol­diers got down to tasks of clean-up and pack-up prepara­tory to flights home -under a still-uncertain withdrawal timetable. 
Ten ex-POWs began their long journey home Monday from Baghdad, freed by the Iraqis as an initial gesture after Sunday's cease-fire meeting between allied commander Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf and Iraqi generals. The two sides agreed at that meeting to a complete release of prisoners. 
Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations, Abdul Amir al­Anbari, said Monday that all remaining allied prisoners could be freed as early as Tuesday. 
"It's a matter of logistics," al­Anbari said. "Otherwise we are prepared to repatriate all so­called coalition POWs tomorrow if the airport facilities allow. 

Notre Dame 
CommunicationBREATHLESS (1960) B/W, 90 min. 
Directed by jean-Luc Godard, France 
and Theatre 
THE EXORCIST
Tuesday, March 5 7:00p.m. 
jean-Paul Belmondo and jean Seberg star in a film that marked the beginning of a new era in European cinema. This radically innovative film was enor­
Gnema
mously influential os a model of personal filmmaking outside of a studio context and served as the inspira­
tion for an entire generation of European, U.S. and 
at 
Latin American firmmakers. 
LAST YEAR AT MARIENBAD 
S 
the (1961) B/W, 93 min. Directed by Alain Resnais, France (In Cinemascope) 
niteTuesday, March 5 9:00p.m. 



----~-----------------­
-

Iceberg Finals tonight culminate months of preparation 
Dear Editor: the usual dorm participation. we met with the team captains interest and record attendance opinions. 
Tonight is the culmination of All of the faculty, law students and the hall presidents to dis­was noted at many halls. Approximately 70 judges and the third annual Iceberg Debate and graduate students in the tribute round assignments and Eight teams, with Morrissey 100 debaters have participated Series, a student-government­History and English debate moderator information. as the top seed, continued into in the 1991 Iceberg Debates. sponsored event the purpose of Departments received invita­Meanwhile, 66 judges had to be the quarterfinals to debate the The time and preparation by which is to promote campus in­tions to judge the debates and immediately scheduled because substantial increasing of social the judges, the debaters and the r tellectual life. At 9 p.m. in the the official Iceberg Debate t­the first three rounds of debate welfare in the U.S. system. Standing Committee has been r Library Auditorium, St. shirt was designed. Before fell over a seven-day period. Emphasis on values and statis­substantial. I personally thank r Edwards' Hall will advocate the Christmas Break, the debate Finally, the Iceberg Debates tics won these rounds for each judge, debater and r resolution: the University handbook was renovated, the kicked off on February 5. Morrissey, St. Ed's, Lyons and Standing Committee member r Administration should officially publicity groundwork estab­Grace2. Last week, these four for his/her participation; only by r recognize the Gay/Lesbian Club lished and the hall teams regis­In the first and second rounds, teams tackled the Notre Dame your commitment and dedi­at Notre Dame. Lyons Hall will tered. all 23 teams debated the role of Honor Code, often engaging in cation has the Iceberg Debates ~ oppose this position. athletics at American Colleges verbal combat to win the crucial accomplished its objectives. I The month of January was and Universities. While some round before finals. Over 90 invite every student and faculty The Championship Round, extremely hectic for the teams debated the application people packed Montgomery member to attend the debate one of the six debate rounds, Standing Committee. Each of the resolution at Notre Dame, Theater to watch the brother­tonight; not only will you wit­
f 
represents months of prepara­judge was required to attend others cited Oklahoma and sister dorms, Morrissey and ness two excellent teams debate
r 
tion and organization. Planning one of four judging seminars in Florida to detail their evidence. Lyons, debate, with Lyons a controversial resolution, but
r 
for the 1991 Iceberg Debates order to ensure consistent and This topic gave novice debaters emerging as the victor. Heated you will take part in a Notre
r began last October, with the se­objective judging. The values of the opportunity to hone their arguments ensued in Hayes­Dame tradition. lection of the Iceberg Debates various resolutions were inter­debate skills before being chal­Healy as St. Ed's and Grace 2 Standing Committee and the nally debated and an appeal lenged with the morally com­debated the purpose of the Kathryn Pirrotta outlining of the general role of procedure was instituted. All of plex third round topic: that the Honor Code at Notre Dame. The Chairperson, 1991 Iceberg
f the debates. In November, dele­the last-minute hall teams were U.S. involvement in the Persian question-and-answer period oft Debates gates were sent to Hall registered, often after scram­Gulf was a just war. These de­erupted in audience debate as Pasquerilla West 
f 
President's Council to ask for bling for a coed member, and bates captured the student body individual students voiced their March 5, 1991 
Remarks by candidates after election were offensive and disappointing 
Dear Editor: candidates as "committed" as We are writing in response to they claimed to be. The 
,//

DUFFY
several quotations included in adjectives they used allegedly 
M \ LL-E'~
last Thursday's column described members of the class announcing the junior class they aspired to lead; their election results (The Observer, statements reflect badly on both 
~ 
Feb. 28). As members of the · our class and on the winning class of 1993 at large, we were ticket. The Cathcart ticket offended and disappointed to represents a great amount of read Shawn Duffy's and Sonia experience and dedication, and Miller's remarks regarding the the fact that the majority of outcome of the election. class voters supported them is 
indicative of this. 

We are not in any way assessing the qualifications of If Miller's opinion that the voters, have the right to vote for expressed by the Cathcart ticket want to lead a class of ignorant, the Duffy ticket; however, Duffy ticket-or any ticket­those by whom we wish to be readily displays the constructive uncaring, "apathetic" stating that the class was "deserved to win" was true, the represented. energy necessary for effective constituents, anyway? "apathetic," according to Duffy, goal of our democratic process leadership and class unity. We and that the voters were would be futile. The point of Having worked with class wish them a very successful Tina Clark ignorant or "didn't care," having an election is not that government, we realize how year. Molly O'Neil according to Miller, is not an one ticket is inherently the right difficult the job of class Lewis Hall attitude we expected from choice, but, rather, that we, as leadership can be. The manner Would the Duffy ticket really March 1, 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
r 
~ 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 5, 1991

page 8 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ......•..••.•.....•.... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger VIewpoint Editor .•.•........... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ....................• Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ..............•.. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ..•..•.••••.•••••••••••••Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller ....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
"ITt; GmCIAL ..J~IS IS~ R~C~SSIOf'\." 


MY 0!/ MAN WAS NAVY, 
ANI? H8 US/31? 70 7!3U-M8 AU-TH8 TIM8, "50N, IF YOUR NUMBER'S UR IN THe NAW AT t&A5T YCV l?l/3aeANr \ 
YOUJO!Ntf? THe NAVY FOR H'IG!fflf(, 
R&450NS? 
I 
Y&AH. THAT PWSTH/3 
8£U-80TTDMS. 
\ 

'They get frightened, and fear is exciting. It's exactly like the moment before you have an orgasm. Everybody wants that. It's a peaking experience.' 
Jim Morrison 

Viewpoint ­
Tuesday, March 5, 1991 page 9 
Gay and lesbian students deserve recognition and support 
On the front page of the Thursday, 21 February 1991 Observer, there was an article reporting a man being "verbally assaulted by another man" in a restroom of the llesburgh Library. According to Notre Dame Security, previous incidents had occurred last semester. Although it was not explicitly stated in the article, it is obvious that these were at­tempts to solicit homosexual sex. 
This kind of behavior is abso­lutely deplorable. There is the obvious reason why "bathroom sex" is irrnsponsible-the ever­present and deadly threat of AIDS and other sexually­transmitted diseases. or course, there is thn nrnbarrassment to thn gay community as a wholn by the rncklnss promiscuity of a few. But care should be taken not to place the entire blame upon those who haunt the restrooms of llesburgh. The problem of bathroom sex is symptomatic of a much larger sickness-th1~ heterosexism and homophobia which still p1~rvades the student dorrnrooms and administrative offices of this university. It is the homophobia that allowed a sign reading "Fags Must Die In Blood" to hang an entire semester in Cavanaugh last year. It is the homophobia whkh makes closeted gay stu­dents wonder if the personal ad in the classifieds is legitimate or a hoax. 
The people who one finds pHering over stall walls in the Pit, or squinting through rough­hewn holes on the second floor are not the same gays who are 
Mike Miller 
Guest Columnist 
out to their friends and classmates; they're not even the semi-closeted crowd who you will find dancing at the Seahorse on Saturday nights. Most often, they don't even call themselves gay. They are the nine percent of the Notre Dame student body who reported in a Student Government survey last year, that although they have same-sex activity, they label themselves heterosexual. 
But again, we must be careful not to lay all the shame on those who are committing the acts. The more serious offense against the community is the dominant mentality which makes it seem difficult or im­possible for gay and lesbian people to be open about their sexuality. 
The University Administration refuses to make any move that might be eon­strued as supporting lesbian and gay people. The Office of Minority Students, which by faet of its very name should in­clude gay and lesbian people under its umbrella, is "only for students who are ethnie minorities." The Observer has been asked by the administration to restrict or not to run ads for the campus lesbian and gay group. And that group, the very people who are best in a position to help other gay and lesbian people as well as educate the larger community, is denied any cooperation by the administration. In fact, the Vice President for Student Affairs even refuses to admit that any organization exists. 
The reeognition of a student group for gay, lesbian and bi­sexual students would be a clear signal from the Administration that the University is willing to help lesbian and gay students. It would show that the administration is ready to deal head-on with the heterosexist mindset that grips so mueh of the University community. (Heterosexism is operating under the assumption that all people are heterosexual and that a heterosexual orientation is superior to a homosexual one.) 
However, the Administration is eurrently trying to limit what the campus gay and lesbian group can do. The group can-. not offieially sponsor speakers or events on eampus which eould educate and correct misinformation about lesbian and gay people and living. The group cannot have space on campus. a mailbox or telephone number-things which would grant students easier access to the group. But most importantly, by not recognizing the campus lesbian and gay group, the University denies the group legitimacy. The University has made it clear that gay students have a right to attend Notre Dame and that the Administration has an obligation to help and minister to them, as to all students. Why must that help and ministry be extended only to individuals and restricted from a group? 
Of course, some of the less­than-informed will claim that the recognition of a group for lesbian and gay people would contravene the mission of the Church. This tired rhetoric does not stand up to the most basic inspection. The Catholic Church has for quite some time recog­nized the essential difference between homosexual acts and a homosexual orientation. The Church condemns only the acts because they cannot be procre­ative, exactly the same as it condemns the use of birth con­trol. The Catholic Church does not condemn gay people simply on the basis of their sexuality. 
The existing group for gay, lesbian, and bisexual students says nothing in its charter or mission statement about sexual activity. Its three goals are support, education, and fellow­ship. Support for gay and les­bian people who are struggling to understand and accept their sexuality in an unsupportive society, education of both the members of the group and the larger community on matters relating to homosexuality, and the fellowship which is a natu­raJ part of any group. 

The people who seek sexual gratification in restroom stalls are making a desperate plea for affection and compassion. They may truly think that they are the only people who feel as they 
-"

do. They are terrified of anyone finding out their identity, and believe that a nameless encounter huddled over a toilet is their only outlet. It doesn't have to be. 
When the Administration takes steps to educate people and open minds about homo­sexuality, people will be better able to accept themselves and reveal their sexuality. As people can be more open about who they are, they will be able to find other people who have made similar journeys and can help them better understand themselves. With acceptance and understanding, homopho­bia and related problems such as restroom solicitation, will evanesce. 
Mike Miller is a fifth-year Architecture student and a member of the Iceberg Debates Standing Committee. 
Notre Dame cannot recognize gay and lesbian organizations 
Should Notre Dame officially recognize student gay and les­bian organizations? Because Notre Dame is a private, Catholie university the answer is no. 
Before going any further, two things should be pointed out. First, the question being de­hated hern is very narrow. The qunstion is not whether Notre Damn should pnrsecute homo­SI~xuals. The question is not whether ostracizing and judg­ing homosexuals is morally permissible. The question is not whntlwr the Catholic Church's belief about the sinfulness of hornosnxual behavior is justi-
Rick Acker 
Guest Columnist 
fied. The only question being debated here is whether a pri­vate, Catholic university like Notre Dame should offieially recognize campus homosexual groups. 
Second, Notre Dame is a pri­vate institution and its students are here voluntarily. Unlike many state schools, Notre Dame is not the only quality school in its price range. Likewise, Notre Dame does not receive involuntary contribu­tions from taxpayers. Unlike state schools, money that is given to Notre Dame is given voluntarily. It follows inex­orably from these facts that Notre Dame cannot force its students or their families to stay here or give money. Any student with the brains and money to attend Notre Dame should find transferring easy. Any student bright enough to get a scholarship here is prob­ably bright enough to get a scholarship at another top notch school. Thus, students should recognize that Notre Dame is not forcing them to do anything and, similarly, that they have no right to force Notre Dame to do anything (i.e. recognize campus homosexual groups). 

Not only does Notre Dame not have an obligation to officially recognize campus homosexual groups, it has an obligation not to recognize them. Notre Dame is a Catholic institution and, therefore, must adhere to the teachings of the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church has for centuries taught that homosexual behavior is sinful. This teaching, based on Biblical dictates (e.g. Lev. 20:13 and Rom. 1:26-27), may or may not be correct. It is, however, a Catholic teaching. As such, Catholic institutions are not free to ignore it. 
If Notre Dame were to offi­cially recognize campus homo­sexual groups, it would in effect be opening the door to subsidizing them. Officially rec­ognized student groups are el­igible to receive university funds and facilities. If Notre Dame were to give funding to gay organizations, it would al­most certainly be violating Catholic teachings on the sin­fulness of homosexual behavior. As a Catholic university, Notre Dame has a duty to teach and practice Catholic doctrine. Officially recognizing and sub­sidizing groups that advocate rejection of Catholic teachings would be a breaeh of that duty. 
Notre Dame should encour­age free intellectual and moral debate. The University should also respect the privacy and autonomy of students as much as possible. But the University has an overriding duty to pro­mote and defend the teachings of the Catholic Church. Official recognition of campus homo­sexual groups would encourage student freedom, but would clash with Catholic teaching. Accordingly, in light of the nar­row question presented and the fact that Notre Dame is a pri­vate institution, Notre Dame should not officially recognize campus homosexual groups. 
Rick Acker is a student in the law school and a member ofthe Iceberg Debates Standing Committee. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Gulf Crisis Action Group misrepresented in column 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the Inside Column which said "Some protesters (members of the Gulf Crisis Action Group eonw to mind) feel the press has been laeking in its coverage bncausn not everything is in­stantly reveallld to an eagllr and blood-thirsty public." (the Obs11rver. Feb. 27) Being a mernbnr of the GCAG and being that member who spoke at the mcent demonstration about the censorship of the press in the Gulf War, and the role played by the press. it is necessary to right this slanderous statement by stating that this is not the position of the group, nor has this ever been the stated posi­tion. 
If Mr. lloelker was in atten­dance at the demonstration on Monday, February 25, he, like all others attending, would know that the Gulf Crisis Action Group was not calling for im­mediate images of battle. This idea was never introduced in the speech on the press. In giv­ing the speech, such thoughts never entered my head, and when other members of the group reviewed it no one mentioned that the thought had occurred to them or that it should be included. I called for an end to the press censorship, not for live coverage. 
I called Mr. Hoelker to see if some members of the group had expressed this sentiment to him, and this was not the case. I then asked for a retraction of the statement on his part in the Observer, and was refused. Unfortunately, tense words filled the conversation including vulgarities on his part, and for this I am truly sorry. I would like Mr. Hoelker to know that this letter is not questioning him as a person, nor his ability to write. I do not question his opinion, and in faet agree with the general theme of the article. 
I would just hope that it not be­come policy that in expressing opinions one would make un­substantiated claims, which are false. This does injustice to the article, and rather than being a strong statement it is reduced to yellow journalism, which, after having spoken to Mr. Hoelker, is not becoming of his writing. 
Jack Daly Pangborn Hall 
Feb.28,1991 

----~ -~-----~--~--­
-
Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, March 5, 1991 
Rewards for graduating seniors in program of service and faith 
By JENNIFER GUERIN careers... to look at how their the opening of a house in ends in July and associates the new associates begin their Accent Writer faith will affect the rest of their Massachusetts. disperse back to their home­terms. Others enter fields from 
For so many people, college lives." This year, there are thirty-six towns to reflect on how they business to medicine to law, but graduation marks the The administrators of the associates working in six cities: will use their experiences in the all continue to integrate their beginning of life in the "real program stress their desire for Portland, Oregon; Oakland, future. changed values into their world"-getting a job, making applicants who are able to see California; Phoenix, Arizona; Daily life in each community lifestyles. money, starting a family. A the connections between faith Colorado Springs, Colorado; varies, but there are some White lauds the program for select few Notre Dame and and service. Although none of South Bend, Indiana and aspects which each program its ability to successfully issue Saint Mary's graduates, how­the associates are likely or Brockton, Massachusetts. They shares. Each house has challenges to associates about ever, decide each year to make expected to have extensive live "in community"-together "community night" at least how they can possibly live out a monumentous commitment experience in the occupation in a house, each house having once a week (each group the ideals they formed in which is likely to forever alter which they will enter, some two co-directors. decides on its own according to college. Having been an the way they perceive the "real service work in college is One director is a Holy Cross work and personal schedules), English major, she remembers world." helpful because it shows a priest, and the other is usually when the associates gather sitting in classes working out 
Holy Cross Associates is a desire to engage in unselfish, a former HCA associate who together to pray, reflect or her values and ideals about program which submerges meaningful activity. lives and works near the site discuss with their co-directors how the world should be. ..._ groups of recent graduates in Holy Cross Associates teaches and provides guidance and anything the_y have on their HCA, she reflects, asks each an environment of service and lessons in humility as well as companionship when needed. minds . participant to put those ideas 
The program does not aim to The community lifestyle is into practice, or at least to try. provide income or build designed to provide a forum for Though it was not always savings, but rather to supply discussion and growth. plausible, she admitted the enough for basic living. Each In the Holy Cross Associates challenge encouraged her to participant contributes the newsletter, Gary Francesconi of work her ideals into her small stipend received from his the Brockton, Massachusetts lifestyle as much as possible. or her employer to the house program admits at the end of Perhaps the Holy Cross fund, which is used to pay for his article that " ... all this Associates' commitment is best food, rent, insurance and other comes from the very person described by Nancy Camarote incidentals. who, just a few months ago, (Arizona, 87-88), now a co­
In addition, everyone said that the whole idea of 'six director in Massachusetts: "I receives sixty dollars per month broken bodies coming together am slowly finding out that for personal expenses. White to be healed by the spirit of change does not come quickly describes this lifestyle as a community' simply 'freaked me or easily. But I am still full of means of putting participants in out!'.. .I have discovered the hope and idealism, as long as I touch with the basic human meaning of the healing spirit of continue to have these needs for intimacy and community. I have also discov­window's into God's Kingdom. affection rather than material ered five people who I now 'Our work is to sow. Another possessions. The leaders of the commonly refer to as my family generation will be reaping the program feel the personal gains away from home." harvest,' " (Dorothy Day). of HCA strongly outweigh the Four goals govern the Holy Cross Associates is open benefits of a salary. program throughout the year: to all Notre Dame and Saint 
The program year begins in service to others, living in Mary's seniors. Along with personal discovery. morality. White describes the August, when associates-to-be community with fellow graduates of Stonehill College 
At six locations around the overall atmosphere of HCA as from all six U.S. locations, plus assoeiates, living a simple life, in Massachusetts and the United States, this domestic very serious at times, a the two-year program in Chile, and sharing in faith explo­University of Portland in program brings together powerful witness to the gather together for a one week ration. Oregon, they make up the bulk groups of six people who live vulnerability of "broken" orientation. Here, they meet The faith exploration of HCA of the associates each year. together for one year, working people. the staff, get to know each participants is not necessarily Applications for the 1991­in their respective communities However, she says the other, and begin preparing for at service occupations while challenge almost always results and understanding the sharing with each other in a celebration of growth for personal and religious personal journeys of growth. both the individual and the per­commitments which they have 
They work with the son who is helped by that made. 
homeless, chemically individual's efforts. Last year, this orientation was dependent, developmentally Jim Cassidy, currently an held at Notre Dame. From disabled and emotionally associate in Arizona, writes, orientation, transportation is abused, among others. At "It's very important that I come provided for each group to its home, the associates work to know the process by which respective site. For one or two together to understand their one individual helps another weeks, associates set up their new lifestyles and occupations, heal pain. So often when people houses and become acquainted and explore areas of individual are confronted with pain, they with their new communities 
faith and spirituality. want to run away because they before starting their jobs. 
This commitment to personal are afraid they don't know At Thanksgiving, two houses 
exploration as well as what to do. Don't run away pair up for the weekend; worthwhile service work has from them. Your job is really Portland and Oakland, Phoenix one of orthodox origin, but of 1992 program can be picked up put HCA on a different level easy. You can do only one and Colorado Springs; South personal intellectual and at Moreau Seminary or at the than most service programs. thing, be there for that person." Bend and Brockton. For the spiritual roots. The strong Center for Social Concerns. The­
Maryann White, a 1988 Founded in 1978 by Holy Christmas holidays each house religious component gives application involves personal graduate of Saint Mary's Cross priests and lay people in stays together. people an opportunity to ask recommendations and a College who participated in the Portland, Oregon, HCA is A retreat is planned for questions about their faith and number of reflective questions. program and now serves as sponsored by the Indiana Memorial Day weekend, when build a strong base which they The deadline is March 20, Assistant Administrator for all Province of Holy Cross. The all participants gather again to can take with them at the end 1991. Contact Maryann White six locations, describes HCA as number of participants remains discuss how the program is of the program. at Moreau Seminary or an "opportunity for participants approximately the same each progressing in terms of their Many people stay on in their Maryann Roemer at the C.S.C. to integrate faith into their year, although 1990 marked expectations. The program jobs when the year is over and with questions. 


Wisdom of the world according to a 'lion tamer' 
I have to apologize in ad­vance-this column might not be up to snuff, since I'm just getting over a really bad cold. (Achoo.) Excuse me. 
This is the last of 26 columns I've written for The Observer. Due to responsibilities at an­other publication across the hall (cough-Scholastic-cough) I will no longer be writing at The Observer. 
My increased workload there (cough -more dough-cough) means that I will not have the time necessary to write this column (sneeze -no ideas left­achoo). I would like to thank my editor, Paige Smoron (cough -hot babe-cough), and all the other editors and artists who have worked on "Lion Taming." 
Boy, I'll miss those late Tuesday nights of camaraderie at The Observer office as weary writers and editors take time out to vent some steam by pulling out croquet mallets and bonking each other on the head while emitting loud whooping noises. 
(Editor's note: This is a bla­tant lie. To the best of our knowledge, this writer has never spent more than five minutes at The Observer. Of course we don't knock each other on the head on Tuesdays. Tuesday is Hawaiian luau night. Thursday is croquet mallet night.) 
Anyway, all that's behind me now. Since I already explained the meaning behind "Lion Taming" in a column last year, I'm not quite sure how to end this series. I guess I'm going to have to repeat myself a little (my apologies if any of the fol­lowing seems familiar): 
ian Mitchell 
Lion Taming 

The title is taken from Monty Python. In the "vocational guidance counselor" sketch, an accountant walks in and ex­plains that he's tired of his job and wants to become a lion tamer. 
When he is told that it's quite a jump from accountant to lion tamer, and asked if he has any qualifications, he says something like: "Well, I've got my own hat-a black top hat with with the words 'lion tamer' written in great big neon letters so you can tame the beasties at night when they're less feisty." 
The guidance counselor, after a pause, responds: "Yes, well...you see, if I were to ring up the circus and tell them 'I've got a fellow here who wants to be a lion tamer' their first question to me is not going to be, 'Does he have his own hat?... "' 
The sketch keeps going, but that's really the point: Don't be an accountant if you want to be a lion tamer; don't live someone else's dreams, never settle for less than your own. And never lose the gift of being able to laugh-at both the world and yourself. Taking things too seriously is the leading cause of death in America. (Or if it's not, it should be.) 
A few last thoughts: 
All things in life balance out. Tall people see more dandruff. Short people find more money on the ground. 
The world loves a clown, but the entire universe despises a mime. 
Coincidences are the practical jokes of God. 
Do not laugh at people who are big enough to hurt you. Be big enough to not laugh at peo­ple you can hurt. 
Don't expect deep thoughts in a one-liner and don't expect to see the meaning of life revealed in a newspaper column. (No, not even this one.) Dream, no matter how unrealistic the dream may be; and laugh, no matter how serious things seem. 
And maybe you might want to buy yourself a hat-something like, oh, I don't know ... a black top hat with the words "lion tamer" on it in great big neon letters so you can tame the beasties at night... 


Tuesday, March 5, 1991 The Observer page 11 
Celtics down Pacers; Malone powers Jazz win 

Belles place 1st 
at Midwest 
championships 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Belles com­pleted their season this week­end by placing first in the 1CJCJ1 Midwest Invitational swimming and diving championships at Wheaton College in Wheaton, Ill. 
Junior Carrie Cummins paved the Belles' way to victory win­ning the 1-and 3-meter diving competitions while setting school records on both boards. Cummins also qualified for NCAA Division IJI Nationals. 
Sophomore Chris Smiggen won the 200 butterfly, breaking her own school record in the process, while sophomore Bethany Thompson won the 1650 freestyle. 
Even though the Belles won only four events, they still to­taled 865 points for the meet, easily defeating second place Wheaton College (635 points). 
Phoenix handed Charlotte its Johnson had 19 points and 10 For coach Dennis Cooper, the 
worst loss of the season. assists for the Suns. win was a welcomed surprise. The Hornets' previous worst Phoenix outscored Charlotte "We've gotten better every 
defeat came in a 106-77 set­35-23 in the first quarter, 33-24 year at this meet," said Cooper, back at Minnesota on Nov. 9. in the second and 31-18 in the "but there was no way I knew Kendall Gill paced the Hornets third for a 99-65 margin at the we were going to compete this 
with 14 points, and Kevin end of third period. well as a team." 
IIAHTFOHD, Conn. (AP) ­Larry Bird scored 29 points and tif'd a tnam record wilh sevnn 3-pointnrs, leading Boston to a 126-10 I victory ovnr Indiana Monday night. 
Tlw Collies shot 64 percent from thn floor in thn first half nn routn to a 69-52 halftime I Pad, tlwn oxtended it to 87-61 late in thn third quartPr. 
Unlikn eight days ago, when tiH~ J>arnrs rallind from a 17­point dnlkit in thn fourth quar­tnr for a 115-109 victory over tlw Odties, Boston had an an­swPr for nvnry Indiana run. 
Bird, who also had 10 assists, was 7-for-10 from 3-point rangn, tying his own Celties rnrord snt on April 3, 1988 against Dallas. 
Hookin Den Brown, 11lling in for tlw injurnd Brian Shaw, had a (~arnnr-high 22 points, break­ing tlw l CJ-point high he had Sunday against Portland when Shaw sprairwd his right ankle. 
Heggie Millnr had 21 points and Detlef Sehrmnpf 20 for the Pacers. 
Jazz 106, Magic 88 OHLANI>O, Fla. Karl Malone scored 30 points as 
Utah won its fourth straight game and improved to .500 on the road by defeating Orlando. 
Malone scored 10 of Utah's first 12 points in the second quarter, keying a 14-4 run that gave the Jazz a 35-26 lead. The Magie, coming off the most successful month in the club's two-year history, never recov­ered. 
The victory was the ninth in 11 games and third straight on the road for Midwest Division­leading Utah, which improved to 14-14 away from Salt Lake City. Orlando was 8-3 last month, but is 0-3 in March with an average losing margin of 15 points. 
Dennis Scott scored 20 of his 28 points on 1 0-for-15 shooting in the third quarter, but Orlando still was outscored by five points to trail 81-65. 
Jeff Malone finished with 20 points for the Jazz and John Stockton had 13 points and 17 assists. 
Suns 126, Hornets 93 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Dan Majerle scored 21 points and reserve Cedric Ceballos 20 as 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 1 0 a.m. (O 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next·day classifieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

I NEED A RIDE TO PHILLY FOR One way tix from NY-SB on 3/17. ATTENTION! Photography for Formals-Halls­LOST AT PW I FISHER FORMAL: 
SPRING BREAK:WILL PAY HALF Cheap! call Janice x2993 National firm has many part·time Dances-ROTC. Call IHS ON SAT. MARCH 2 
GASffOLLS-MIKE x3589 openings. Looking for students who Photography at 234·8539. IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME! live within 1 00-mile radius of Charcoal-grey, pin-striped suit coat TYPING AVAILABLE NEED DRIVER(S): One-Way to 3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY campus for special work program. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY w/ 213 dorm keys attached to 287·4082 L.A. area. Call DSI at 232·3784. OWNER. FIREPLACE, C/A, FMRM $8.10 starting. AASP scholarships & CALLING VANESSA 272·9305. FORD key ring. 
W/BAR. MOVE·IN COND. 15 MIN internships available. Flexible NY TIMES. used and new books University Allied Publishers. Inc., WALK FROM NO. APPT ONLY. schedule. Call259-9740 for From 11B, to all our FRIENDS IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MATT Pandora's Books 233·2342 seeks motivated. entreprenurial 234-8116, EVE. interview. in the Downtown Athletic Club: X 1650 corner of ND ave. & Howard students interested in a campus Thanks for the Heisman. 1 0-5:30 everyday venture. Great resume builder, INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. • I need a ride to New York-• P.S. FACE! Attention People of Notre Dame: 
opportunity for very good money. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Syracuse vicinity. If any· John O'Brien was a lip· locking, WORD PROCESSING ·Term No capital required. Call David for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. one is going that way save ATTENTION ALL CREW TEAM pizza nacho sucking, doughnut layin papers. reports. letters, etc. Carlock at (617) 894-5575. Office near campus. me and give me a call. MEMBERS (present and former): babe on his 21st birthday!!!ll!!lll Experienced legal secretary. X4049 Only 365 more days (1992 is a leap Love, 
I NOTICES 
(616) 699·7387. Men's Bianchi 12·speed bike, super year) until John O'Brien's birthday. Garth Brooks 
SUMMER JOBS lightweight, 19 in. Like new. 3 yrs. Do you not have a clue about how See you in the Tikki Tikki Ttkki P.S. You really are biglllllllllllllll RESUMES .. PROFESSIONAL ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS old, hardly used. Was $350. Now you are getting back to NO after Room ... QUALITY. CALL 272·5667. PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS $200 firm. 258-0752. spring break is over? Do you live in To the guardian angels in PW 414 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR the New England area? Can you HELPI I need a ride home to the AND 415 : you guys are the best $$EARN CASH OVER BREAK$$ LAKE PLACID. CALL FOR SALE : ONE WAY TRAIN drive a stick? WOULD YOU LIKE A Louisville, KY area for Spring Break. moms a stupid son could want. I Call Brad at 233-9226 before Friday 1·800·343·8373. TICKET ON 3/8 STOPS IN RIDE? If you answered yes to any Will help pay for gas. Call Ana love you and will miss you over for details. CLEVELAND,ERIE,BUFFALO, of these questions, give me a call. I x4914 break. 
Are YOU hitting the beach for SYRACUSE, need a passenger for the return trip · the tall skinny WSG BASEBALL FANS! Spring Break? Well we'd love ROCHESTER.SCHENECTADY, only. Ride needed to South Florida for Draft your own Fantasy League to also I Need a ride for 2 in ALBANY. REAL CHEAP. CALL -Moire x4914 break. Will share $. My Dearest Shonda (Rottserie) Team Alabama/Florida direction. MATT 3014 Call284-5190. If you think you are going to rope and compete in upstart league DO CALL PIER AT 3303 Busy, busy, busy ... me in to staying around as your wtlh fellow ND students. ice-nine Will pay $1 00 for ride to S. Florida personal whipping boy, you've got 
American League only. Once upon a time there was a TICKETS THIS THURSDAY MARCH 7 for break. Call #4274 another think coming. I hate the 
Interested Call Paul x3265 Domer from Central Illinois 9:00pm COFFEEHOUSE new kids anyway...but I'll do respond quickly Teams going fast. who had no way home for 58/Chic/Denver !way don't be hypnotized. anything for the Observer. 
break. change this to a happy Mar 9, Cheap 277-9361 NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH for ending and Call Pat @ 1877 and PEACE LOVE and FiLA S. BREAK $JoAnne 1275 To the young man in the Pit of the 
I· 

ILOST AND FOUND I 
leave a message. $$$ and Brare Sunday Nile .... I know who 
help drive. PERSONALS Loretta, Would you be secure enough in you are because I saw your birthday FOUND ONE MEN'S SEIKO No matter what lies ahead I want your manliness to wear a tutu while ad Monday. You look like my type. I WATCH FOUND IN THE PARKING EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK I need a ride to D.C.!Virginia for you to know I love you more than playing basketball? No? Well, we want the answer to my question so LOT (D2) THE WEEK OF 2118·22. READING BOOKS AT HOME. Easter Break. Dana x2697. You will anything else and will do anything to are. That's right. We're 5 Guys please meet me in the bathroom on CALL CAROLINE AT X4354 TO 1·615·473·7440 EXT. B enjoy my company. save what we have together. Who Aren't Afraid to Wear Tutus the 1Oth floor of the Brare tonite at CLAIM Love, Glenn While Playing Basketball. And we Midnight. · an admirer 
NEED A RIDE TO MIAMI OF OHIO i need a ride to rochester, n.y. for will own Bookstore. Hear us roarl!llll LOST 8·9 KEYS 2·22. THE KEY OR OXFORD VICINITY ON spring break. Dana x2697. I"m a SENIOR FORMAL 1991 GOOD LUCK TO ALL CHAIN IS A WHITE BALL. MARCH 8 OR 9. WILL PAY$$$. great rider. TONIGHT FROM 6-9 IN NO SWIMMERS. REWARD. CALL KATIE X2862. THEODORE'S: BID SALES, To whomover "borrowed" the GO IRISH. BRING HOME 
CALL MARK X1584 SEARCHING FOR A CAREER? ROOM REGISTRATION, ORDER Charlatans UK disk from the party THE EASTERN CHAMPIONSHIP! 
HAVE MERCY ON MEl Need We can help! FLOWERS, TUXEDO FITTINGS, Saturday at 1662 Turtle Creek: LOST: I lost my thin link gold a ride to MINNESOTA for break. Quality resume and AND SIGN UP FOR ACTIVITIES. It's pretty nice of you to come to To all CHIMES members: bracelet on Wednesday. leave anytime. gas, tolls, you name cover letter duplication. ALSO TOMORROW 6-9 IN our party, drink for free, and help There will be an ART MEETING Feburary 2011 If you find it, it. GREG 3234 Matching envelopes too. THEODORE'S AND THURSDAY 6-yourself to a CD that was not even Tuesday, March 5 at 6:30 in rm. 179 please call Jessica at 4824. THE COPY SHOP 91N LEMANS. ours!!! Moreau. Remember that the 
Need ride to WISCONSIN LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER Anyway. we DO need it back, and final deadline for all stories and FOUND: Gloves in Cushing (2nd for a sunny Spring Break! OPEN EVERYDAYIII if you could please return it in our poems is Marc~ 2A. floor, rm 224?) on Sun. 2/24/91 . Please call Frank at x1443 HI ANGELl mailbox ASAP we would appreciate Call Matt @3472. and leave a message. I"M GOING CRAZY. it..(no questions asked.) 
NowLNSing SENIORS -GRADUATION IS JUST THANX FOR SUNDAY. Thanks, 
FAYETTE SQUARE 

Found lady's golden ring near the WEEKS AWAY! WHAT NEXT? J. 1662 
TOWNHOMES

stadium. Paul 1.271·0868 CONSIDER AN ALTERNATIVE· P.S.: JE T'AIME!!!
FORRENT J 
4 & 5 BEDROOM UNITS

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES. A Found: Men's watch in D2 parking GRAD. WEEKEND 1yr. post-grad experience stressing TOP TEN LESSONS LEARNED AT 
AVAILABLE lot. Call xt652 to identify. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY service, community, simple lifestyle, MORRISSEY'S SYR: 
AmftOI!Inlod•llt· 219-291·7153. and prayer. Applications due EMILY WASSERMAN (post birthday 1O.Don't be late 
-WASHER & DRYER LOST: MARCH 20. Contact M.A. White girll), MARIA BLOHM, DONIELLE 9.Don't make up stories why you're 
-SECURITY SYSTEM @ Fisher I PW Formal on 4·7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92 (5521) or M.A.Roemer(7949) for MANOR and BECKY late 
-DISHWASHER Sat. March 2 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone#232-1776. more info. (wheat) McMAHON: 8.Be your own D.J. 
-CENTRAl AIR Charcoal-grey, pin-striped Alright ladies! As of Tuesday 7.Avoid small talk by escaping to 
-PATIOS suit coat w/ 213 dorm keys Furnished Bedrooms and Shared only TWO (count em) days left 'til the dance floor 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS attached to FORD key ring. Living Areas. Avail. for 91·92 Yr. HELP , PLEASE SAVE ME FROM we're outta here! Hello Isla del Soli I 6.Don't answer the phone at 3a.m. 

LEFTI

Washer and Dryer. $200 per month MY ROOMATE. I NEED A RIDE Remember-no naked men running 5.Be ready to hear "CRAZY" 100 
l FOR MORE INFO NOW.

IF FOUND. PLEASE CALL: includes utlliliA~ Ph :>::l?-1771> TO GEORGIA FOR SRING around promising ecstasy or hiding times 
232-82511

Matt x1650 BREAK. IF YOU ARE GOING TO in closets this time! SILAS DENT'S 4.Use only your date's first name GEORGIA OR FLORIDA PLEASE BEWARE!II 3.Don't be assertive
FORSALE 
I

LOST: A CHARCOAL-GRAY GIVE ME A LIFT. -Ker 2.Bring your own blender SUIT COAT AT THE P.W. GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 MICHELLE ROCH P. S.-Donnie, bad news. It's !.Be on your guard in the DTI 
Cruise Ship Jobs 
HIRING Men-Women. Summer/ CALL ED AT X1891 Repossessions. Your area (1) 805 beach. So, yes-you have to bring 
FORMAL (U repair). Delinquent tax property. 284-4338 against the law to go topless on the 
Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS, 962-8000. Resumes .... Professional quality the top piece of your suit also. ·ARE WE THERE YET? 
OUR GUIDES, RECREATION PERSONNEL Excellent pay plus FREE travel. caribbean,
Ext. GH-9834 for current repo 272-5667. (Tom Williams) Sorry. ·NOT YET. (Ad Nauseum) 
Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pacific, Mexico.
WANTED ******"'*******...........
list. 

CALL NOWI Call refundable 
1-206-736-0775, Ext._QJ]. 

Page 12 The Observer Tuesday, March 5, 1991 
Missouri coach Norm Stewart, including three straight buckets Smith left the game to a deaf­great ball game. He rebounded; adding that when other players late in the first half. ening roar with 1:55 left. he passed well. You'd like to see
Tigers 
start hitting the three, it opens Despite scoring a below-aver­him go out with 40, but he up the inside. But with 3:35 left and Notre age 13 points, Smith played played a great ball game." 
continued from page 16 
Irish center Keith Tower Dame down 77-43, Phelps well, dishing 9 assists. And on that note the cere­
known for his prowess from 
ended with something of a called off the chase. The Irish mony ended, leaving the Tigerslong range, also had an excel­bright spot for Notre Dame. went with a lineup consisting ·"I wanted to hit the open looking ahead to the Big Eight 
lent night from downtown, 
After shaking off early trou­entirely of freshman, including man," Smith said, "because tournament, and the Irish
connecting on four-of-five 
bles-he shot two straight air little-used Oliver Gibson, who they were sending two guys at headed into the last game ofthree-point shots. 
balls-Tower recovered to score joined the team after the foot­me all the time." this rocky season against arch­"Anthony Peeler can shoot the 
15 points on 7 -of-12 shooting, ball season. Stewart said, "He played a rival DePaul on Saturday.
three; we know he can," said 
SCOREBOARD 
NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 
All Times EST All Times EST WALES CONFERENCE EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division Atlantic Division 
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni NY Rangers 34 22 12 80 259 212 20-9-6 14-13-6 13-9-5 Boston 43 t6 .729 6-4 Won 1 27-5 16-1t 25-tt Philadelphia 31 28 9 71 225 216 17-12-6 14-16-3 11-13-6 Philadelphia 32 25 .56t tO 7-3 Lost t 21-8 tf-17 22-t2 Pittsburgh 32 30 4 68 281 257 21-11-1 11-19-3 15-12-1 New York 27 3t .466 t5t/2 6-4 Won 5 13-17 14-t4 17-t9 New Jersey 28 28 11 67 234 221 19-9-7 9-19-4 11-13-5 Washington 22 36 .379 201/2 t-9 Lost 6 15-tt 7-25 14-22 Washington 29 32 5 63 211 228 17-11-3 12-21-2 16-12-3 New Jersey 19 39 .328 23 _1/2 5-5 Lost 2 14-16 5-23 t2-23 NY Islanders 21 37 9 51 190 247 12-16-6 9-21-3 9-16-4 Miami t8 39 .3t6 24 5-5 Won 2 t2-18 6-2t t0-27 Adams Division Central Division x-Boston 38 21 8 84 250 223 22-8-3 16-13-5 15-8-3 Chicago 4t 15 .732 9-t Lost t 25-3 16-t2 26-8 x-Montreal 34 25 8 76 231 207 19-1t-3 t5-t4-5 t2-t0-4 Detroit 38 22 .633 5 4-6 Won t 24-6 14-t6 25-t2 x-Buffalo 25 25 t6 66 233 226 tt-tt-tO t4-t4-6 9-10-7 Milwaukee 36 23 .6t0 6t/2 6-4 Lost t 25-5 tt-t8 24-t4 x-Hartford 28 30 9 65 203 226 t6-t3-4 t2-t7-5 9-tt-5 Atlanta 33 25 .569 9 7-3 Won 2 23-6 10-t9 t8-t9 Quebec 12 42 t2 36 187 298 6-t9-8 6-23-4 6-t2-7 ndiana 27 3t .466 t5 8-2 Lost t 20-9 7-22 t8-t9 
_!iank Hecord School t-'omts 

Cleveland 20 37 .35t 2t t/2 5-5 Lost t 14-t6 6-2t t3-23 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Charlotte 17 4t .293 25 2-8 Lost 3 12-17 5-24 t0-25 
Norris Division 
2 25-1 Ohio St. 1,488

w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Dlv WESTERN CONFERENCE x-St. Louis 39 t8 9 87 264 2t0 2t-6-6 t8-t2-3 t5-8-2 Midwest Division 
3 25-4 Indiana 1,363 x-Chicago 40 2t 6 86 229 t73 23-7-3 t7-t4-3 t5-7-3 w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni 
4 26-4 Syracuse 1,347

Detroit 28 32 8 64 235 256 23-12-0 5-20-8 t2-12-3 Utah 39 18 .684 8-2 Won 4 25-4 t4-t4 27-tO Minnesota 2t 33 t3 55 207 227 t3-t4-6 8-t9-7 7-13-4 San Antonio 36 t9 .655 2 4-6 Won t 21-6 t5-t3 24-t2 
5 28-3 Arkansas 1,298 

Toronto t8 4t 8 44 201 279 12-2t-2 6-20-6 7-16-2 Houston 33 24 .579 6 7-3 Won t 20-8 t3-t6 20-t7 
6 25-6 Duke 1,270

Smythe Division Dallas 22 35 .386 t7 4-6 Won 1 t4-14 8-21 t2-22 x-Los Angeles 39 20 7 85 284 209 22-8-4 17-12-3 t5-7-4 Orlando 19 39 .328 20 t/2 4-6 Lost 3 t4-t5 5-24 t5-25 
7 22-5 North Carolina 1,156 

x-Calgary 37 22 7 8t 282 211 22-7-2 t5-15-5 t3-7-3 Minnesota 18 38 .32t 20 t/2 2-8 Lost 2 13-t5 5-23 t3-28 
8 26-2 Utah 1,103

Edmonton 30 3t 5 65 223 220 18-12-3 t2-19-2 10-t2-2 Denver 16 40 .286 22t/2 2-8 Won t t3-16 3-24 8-28 Winnipeg 23 35 t1 57 230 248 15-15-5 8-20-6 8-t0-6 Pacific Division 
9 24-6 Arizona 1,048 

Vancouver 24 38 7 55 207 273 t5-15-4 9-23-3 8-t8-t Portland 45 14 .763 5-5 Won t 28-3 t7-tt 27-tO 
10 22-6 Kentucky 947

x-cllnched playoff berth LA Lakers 42 t6 .724 2t/2 6-4 Lost t 23-6 t9-t0 27-tO Sunday's Games Phoenix 38 19 .667 6 7-3 Won 2 22-5 t6-t4 24-t3 
11 23-4 New Mexico St. 846 

Toronto 4, Hartford 4, tie Golden State 30 26 .536 13 t/2 4-6 Won 1 19-8 11-18 t8-t9 Boston 3, New Jersey t Seattle 28 28 .500 t5 t/2 6-4 Won 4 t9-8 9-20 t4-t7 
12 21-6 Kansas 813 

Chicago 8, Vancouver 0 LA Clippers 20 37 .35t 24 5-5 Lost t t5-t2 5-25 t6-20 
13 24-6 Nebraska 773 

Monday's Games Sacramento 15 41 .268 28t/2 t-9 Lost 9 14-12 1-29 t0-24 
Late Game Not Included 
14 21-6 Oklahoma St. 700 

Monday's GamesNY Rangers 6, Philadelphia 2 
15 28-4 E. Tennessee St. 607

Late Game Not Included 
Montreal at Calgary, (n) 
Boston t26, Indiana 1Ot 
16 20-8 LSU 467

Tuesday's Games 
Phoenix t26, Charlotte 93 

Quebec at Detroit, 7:35p.m. 
17 21-8 UCLA 451
Utah t 06, Orlando 88 

St. Louis at Hartford, 7:35p.m. 
Dallas 102, New Jersey t 00 
18 20-7 Mississippi St. 450

New Jersey at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. 
Seattle at Golden State, (n)
Vancouver at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. 
19 23-2 Princeton 437

Tuesday's GamesBoston at Toronto, 7:35p.m. 
Denver at Atlanta, 7:30p.m. 
20 20-7 St. John's 427

Los Angeles at Washington. 7:35p.m. 
Charlotte at Indiana, 7:30p.m. 
Edmonton at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. 
LA Clippers at Miami, 7:30p.m. 
21 19-8 Seton Hall 377 

LA Lakers at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
22 21-6 Southern Miss. 376

Phoenix at New York, 8 p.m. 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 Milwaukee at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
23 20-7 Texas 263 

New Jersey at Houston, 8:30 p.m. 
24 18-9 Alabama 149

Philadelphia at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m.
How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams 
Cleveland at Seattle, 10 p.m. 
25 18-8 DePaul 76

fared Monday: 
Golden State at Sacramento, t 0:30 p.m.
t. Penn St. (26-t) did not play. 
AP

2. 
Virginia (27-2) did not play. 


3. 
Tennessee (25-5) lost to No. tO LSU 80-75. 

4. 
Georgia (26-3) did not play. TRANS~CTIONS . 

5. 
Purdue (24-2) did not play. 


6. 
Auburn (24-5) did not play. BASEBALL Oliver, c~tcher: Jack Armstrong and Tim Layana. SAN ANTONIO SPURs-Received league 


defenseman. to Springfield of the American

7. N. Carolina St. (25-5) beat No. 22 Clemson pitchers, and Hal Morris, first baseman. 
American League permission to sign David Wingate, guard. 84-6t. HOUSTON ASTR05-Agreed to terms with Steve 
Hockey League. 

BALTIMORE ORIOLE5-Agreed to terms with Sam World Basketball League NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Fired John Cunniff,
8. Arkansas (24-3) did not play. Finley, outfielder, on a one-year contract.
Horn and Juan Bell, infielders, on one-year WBL-Named Jimmy Oldham director of public 
coach. Named Tom McVie coach.

9. Stanford (22-4) did not play. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIE5-Agreed to terms with
contracts. relations. 
VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Signed Doug Lidster,

tO. LSU (24-6) beat No.3 Tennessee 80-75. Pat Combs and Bob Scanlon, pitchers, and Ron
MILWAUKEE BREWER5-Renewed the contract 1t. W. Kentucky (25-2) did not play. Jones, outfielder, on one-year contracts. 
defenseman. to a multiyear contract 

of George Canale, first baseman. FOOTBALL WASHINGTON CAPITAL5-Called up Jeff
t2. Washington (2t-4) did not play. PITTSBURGH PIRATE5-Agreed to terms with
TEXAS RANGER5-Agreed to terms with Jack National Football League Greenlaw, right wing, from Baltimore of the 
13. Connecticut (26-4) beat No. t6 Providence Rick Reed, pitcher, and Jeff King, third baseman. 
Daugherty and Jeff Huson, infielders, on one-year ATLANTA FALCONs-Named Robert April special 
American Hockey League. 

79-74. on one-year contracts. 
contracts. Renewed the contracts of Kevin Brown teams-tight ends coach. t4. Texas (20-7) did not play. SAN FRANCISCO GIANT5-Agreed to terms with
and Kenny Rogers, pitchers, and Chad Kreuter, CLEVELAND BROWN5-Named Jerry Simmons HORSE RACING
t5. UNLV (24-5) did not play. Jeff Brantley, pitcher, on a one-year contract.
catcher. strength and conditioning coach. 
TRIPLE CROWN PRODUCTIONs-Named Gene t6. Providence (25-5) lost to No. t3 Connecticut 

National League LOS ANGELES RAM5-Signed David Lang, 
Williams press coordinator for the Triple Crown

79-74. BASKETBALL
CHICAGO CUBs-Renewed the contracts of running back. 
Challenge.

t7. Stephen F. Austin (23-4) did not play. National Baseketball Association
Jerone Walton, outfielder, and Lance Dickson, PHOENIX CARDINAL5-Named Carl Hairston 
18. Rutgers (22-5) did not play. NBA-Fined Darrell Walker, Washington Bullets
pitcher. Agreed to terms with Mike Harkey and Jeff scout TENNIS
t9. Mississippi (20-8) did not play. guard, $4,500, and Dale Ellis, Milwaukee Bucks
Pica, pitchers; Doug Dascenzo and Dwight Smith, Canadian Football League 
outfielders; Joe Girardi and Hector Villanueva. OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERs-Announced the
20. Northwestern (t9-7) did not play. guard, $2,000, for their roles in an incident United States Tennis Association 2t . Long Beach State (20-7) did not play. following a game on March t. USTA-Announced the election of Robert
catchers. and Jose Vizcaino, shortstop, on one­retirement of Troy Wilson, defensive back. 
Cookson as president and chairman of the board.

22. Clemson (2t-t0) lost to No.7 North Carolina BOSTON CELTIC5-Re-signed Charles Smith,
year contracts. 

State 84-6t . guard, to a t 0-day contract. Placed Dave Papson, 
CINCINNATI RED5-Agreed to terms with Scott HOCKEY 
23. 
Lamar (25-2) did not play. forward, on the injured list.

Scudder, pitcher, and Terry Lee, first baseman, on National Hockey League

24. 
Iowa (18-8) did not play. LOS ANGELES CLIPPERs-Waived Jay

one-year contracts. Renewed the contracts of Joe HARTFORD WHALERs-Sent Chris Tancill, right 

25. 
George Washington (22-5) did not play. Edwards, guard. 


wing; James Black, center: and Jerqus Baca, 


. . • "'" ...
• • L't.." • 
~~·
o/IC:S 
• C..'-' • 
• ~7 •
•• "t" ••

iiiiiiiiis~iiiiiiiiii 
..··~'"····· Senior Formal (;~~··· Tuxedo Specials 
•

2BUCK 
• • • Classic Tuxedo $38.50 All designer styles 20°/o off
TIJESDAY 
• 
1st Choice Guaranteed 

• 
NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED 


5 p.m. to 12:30 
• Major credit cards and 
Any 7" Sandwich 
personal checks accepted 
One man tells another, it's 
$2.00 
·t~rtS
(2 or more for delivery) 
S!owntown South Bend 
123 W. Washington • 289-5521 Hours: Mon. &Thurs. 9 a.m.-8 p.m. Tues., Wed. & Fri. 9 a.m.-5:30 p.m.
113 DIXIE' WAY IIOIITH 

Sat. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 



Tuesday, March 5, 1991 The Observer Page 13 
Track ends season on SPORTS BRIEFS 
•ND/SMC Sailing Club: weather permitting, matches start at 7:30 p.m. in the JACC pit, but 
practices will be held from Monday, March 4 most importantly, they are all free. 
down note at IC4A meet 
By HUGH MUNDY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's track team wrapped up its 1991 in­door sHason at Princeton University ovHr the WHHkHnd as the team eompeted in the IC4A Championships. 
For the Irish, thH meet was once again launched by a blast from the Hocket. 
Haghib "Hocket" Ismail kept his 55-meter dash undefeated streak alive as he sprinted to victory in a time of 6.16 sec­onds. 
With the win, Ismail solidified his position as one of the na­tion's premier sprinters going into next week's NCAA Championships at the Indianapolis Hoosier Dome. 
llowever, not even a boost from the !locket could fuel an otherwise sluggish perfor­mance, as NotrH Dame strug­gled to an eighth-place team finish. George Mason University won the overall title for the second consecutive year. 
"I'm very disappointed," said Irish coach Joe Piane. "We never carne close to reaching our potential." 
Senior captain Ryan Cahill agreed with his coach's com­ments. 
"The team's performance as a whole was a letdown," he re­marked. "With the exception of Hocket and Willie (Clark), we left a lot to be desired." 
Cahill's 5,000-meter run per­formance proved to be one of the few Irish highlights as he captured second place in 14:32.8. 
The 5,000 was not, however, without disappointment as se­nior Pat Kearns, a consistent performer throughout the sea­son, was tripped and fell en route to a distant 12th-place finish. 
In the sprints, an outstanding effort was registered by Clark, who raced to a third-place lin­ish in the 200-meter dash with a time of 21.69 seconds. 
"Willie ran great," Piane said of his freshman standout. "He's got a bright future." 
The Irish also received a solid performance from the distance medley relay team of Mark Lavery, Scott Vandenberg, J.T. Burke and Shawn Schneider, which finished fifth in 10:13.6. 
The middle distances were highlighted by junior Brian Peppard's personal best 1 ,000 meter time of 2:26, good for seventh place in an intensely competitive field. 
Despite his squad's subpar performance, Piane remained optimistic. 
"It's always fun to be in a competitive environment," he said. "Hopefully, we'll get things going outdoors." 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Saint Mary's Day Editors (2) 
Two students are needed to perform general office duties including answering telephones and taking classifieds. Each day editor must be able to work 12 to 3 p.m. at least two days a week at the Saint Mary's Observer office. For more information, call Emily Willett at 284-5086. 
through Thursday, March 7 at 2:30 p.m.at the Boathouse. Official practices begin March 18 also at 2:30 p.m. For more information, call Julie Garden at 284-5197. 
•Bookstore 
Basketball: Absolute final sign­ups will be held Thesday, March 5 from 3-6 p.m. in the SUB office on the second floor of LaFortune. Remember the $5.00 sign-up fee. Tl-is will be the last chance to sign-up. 

•The 
Bookstore Basketball censored list is in today's edition of the Observer. Teams have until Thursday, March 7 at 5 p.m. to submit a new, uncensorable name to the SUB secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. A copy of the list will be posted outside the SUB office until Thursday. 


•Sports Trivia Continues from 7:30 -9 
p.m. tonight with four quarterfinal matchups in Grace Hall food sales. Come out to support your dorm and join the audience with a chance to win prizes. 
•Men's Volleyball: If you haven't seen the men's volleyball team yet this year, now is your chance! The Irish play three home matches this week: Thesday vs. Hope College, Wednesday vs. Tri-State University and Friday vs. Cincinnati. All 
•The 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Gymnastics Club took second place overall in a meet at Indiana University this weekend. Impressive performances were given by first-time competitors Janice Heis, Tim Vecchia, Matt Davis and John Lagenfield. Freshman T.J. Neal captured first place and the all-around women's award. 

•Rosters 
for Women's lnterhall outdoor soccer are due at the NVA office by Wednesday, March 6. A $25 entry fee is required. 

•Rosters 
for Undergrad 12" Softball (Men's and Women's) are due March 6 at the NVA office. Minimum of 12 and maximum of 16 players. 


•Campus 32 Team Soccer Tournament rosters are due in the NVA office by March 6. First 32 teams submitted with $10 entry fee will play. Open to students, faculty and staff. Varsity players not eligible. Double elimination tournament with play to start March 31. 
•Grad/Faculty/Staff Softball rosters are due to the NVA office by March 6. Minimum of 12 players. Rules to be handed out with schedule .. 
Loss 
continued from page 16 "We went (6-for-24) with Sweet and Bennett , and you can't do that on the road." 
Notre Dame has not been able to do much on the road this season. Monday's loss was its 11th in 14 games. 
Missouri, by contrast, has won 14 of 16 contests in the Hearnes Center, a climate that became even more hospitable for the Tigers during Smith's final appearance before the home crowd. 
"They retired his jersey tonight," Phelps said. "That's really all that needs to be said." 
Smith let his passing do most of the talking. The 6-10 senior forward dished out nine assists in the game to go with his 13 points, five rebounds and two steals. 
Sophomore center Chris Heller was the main recipient of Smith's beneficence. Most of Heller's 13 points came at the tail end of Missouri's transition game-usually, Heller via Smith and point guard Melvin Booker. 
Monday night's loss was dis­turbing not so much because of the 30-point margin of defeat but because the Irish played listlessly for the better part of the second half, bearing little resemblance to the squad that has remained competitive in the face of adversity throughout this disappointing season. 
After losing nine games to Top 25 opponents by eight points or less, Notre Dame seemed in awe of Missouri's scoring attack Monday night in a reversal of last season's 31­point Irish win at the Joyce ACC. 
"Notre Dame has some good 
Chance 
continued from page 16 
right now," McGraw said. "They have three teams that we're looking at in the region to make the tournament, so if there aren't any upsets, all three of 

ASING: 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWNHOMES 
4&5 BEDROOM UNITS AVAILABLE 
AMENITIES INCLUDE: 
-WASHER &DRYER -SECURITY SYSTEM -DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONLY A FEW APARTMENTS LEFT! 
CALL FOR MORE INFO NOW. 
232-8256 
basketball players," Missouri coach Norm Stewart said, "but it's tough psychologically. You go back and give them a win at St. John's and against Syracuse, and that changes things around." 
The Irish, who have lost two straight and three of their last four games, hope to turn things around Saturday at DePaul in their final game of the season. In DePaul, Notre Dame will face its 11th Top 25 opponent and its final chance to avoid a 20­loss season. 
Smith, meanwhile, will con­tinue to flash his toothless grin at Missouri's opponents in this week's Big Eight tournament. 
The Irish won't miss it a bit. 
those teams won't go. We're hoping Oklahoma State wins the Big Eight and Southwest Missouri State wins the Gateway." 
One half of McGraw's wish came true last night, as the Cowboys (25-5) defeated up­start Kansas (17-B) 7 4-63 to win the Big Eight tournament. Oklahoma State, the regular­season champions as well, gain the Big Eight's automatic bid to the NCAAs. 
The good news for the Irish is that the Jayhawks knocked out both teams from the Big Eight which the Irish needed to have lose-Nebraska (17-11) and Colorado (18-11 )-on its road to the championship game. Their losses seriously cripple their respective chances for making the tourney, thereby leaving spots available for Notre Dame. 
In the Gateway, two bubble teams, Southern Illinois and Illinois State (both 18-9) meet in the semifinals, with the win­ner likely to face the Bears (23­
..

4) on Saturday. 
Should Southwest Missouri State lose either to Drake (13­
16) or the winner of the Saluki­Cardinal game, the Gateway probably would receive two bids-the tournament cham­pion and the Bears-and the Irish could lose out. 
The bottom line remains, however, that if Notre Dame wins the MCC tourney this weekend, its worries should be moot. And history would be made. 


--~ 
~.~ ~-----~-~-----~---­
_P_a_ge__1_4______________________________________________T_h_e_O_b_s_e_~_e_r___________________________________T_u_e_s_d_ay_,_M_a_r_ch__s_,1_9_9_1 
: Four wrestlers advance from Western Regionals 
Irish hope to qualify several for NCAA meet this week 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Writer 
Getting back to Normal, Ill. wasn't as therapeutic as the Notre Dame wrestling team may have hoped, but the Irish came back from the NCAA Western Regional tournament smiling nonetheless. 
Curt Engler (HWT), Marcus Gowens (126), J.J. McGrew 
(177) and Steve King (190) all qualified for the NCAA champi­onships to be held March 14-16 in Iowa City, Iowa. 
Northern Iowa won the meet with 113 1/2 team points, while Notre Dame placed second with 65 points, just ahead of third­place Illinois State (55 1/2). 
"This is the fifth year in a row that we have placed second," said Notre Dame coach Fran McCann. "Northern Iowa was by far the best team there, but I 
By BECKY WOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team heads to Cleveland State this week to begin four days of competition at the Eastern Intercollegiates swimming and diving championships. 
Senior co-captain Brian Rini leads a pack of Irish swimmers who all have a shot to qualify for the NCAA championships. Rini's 200 butterfly time leaves him seconds away from qualify-
Texas 
continued from page 16 
was never close again. 
Against St. Mary's, sopho­more Alan Walania (2-1) picked up both victories, pitching 2 2/3 innings of relief in the first game and six as a starter in the second. 
In the first game, Notre Dame fell behind 4-0 in the first, but came back with three runs in the fourth. Down 4-3 in the final inning, designated hitter Adam Maisano provided the go­ahead runs by cracking a two­run homer. Jacobs provided an insurance solo shot, making the final score 6-4. 
In the second game, the Irish defeated the Rattlers 9-3 be­hind the power exhibition by Irv Smith. The sophomore, who plays tight end for the football team, made use of his first start of the season by going two-for­three with two home runs and four runs scored. Previous to his start Saturday, Smith had had three at-bats. 
"Irv Smith impressed me," said Murphy, who sent Smith to bat only 60 times last season. "He's made the commitment to himself to get better every day and to come into his own. He's making great strides at that." 
Finally, against Trinity, Notre Dame came away with two con­vincing victories, 8-2 and 8-3. In the first game, freshman Tom Price (2-0) pitched a com­plete game and Danapilis went three-for-four with a home run and three RBI. 
In the nightcap, sophomore Pat Leahy pitched a complete game for his first win of the season. Maisano went a perfect four-for-four with two RBI. 
would like to think that the gap between us could be a little closer. They were geared up for this and we were not. I'm getting a little sick of finishing second." 
From the entire Western Regional tournament, 20 wrestlers are sent to the NCAA championships. Ten are the champions of the respective weight classes, while the other ten are chosen from the second­and third-place finishers. 
A situation may develop, however, where the second­place wrestler (the champi­onship match loser) may not have already faced the third­place wrestler. In such a case a "true second" match is held. If the second-place wrestler has already beaten the third-place wrestler, no such match is held. 
Engler assured himself of a berth in the NCAAs by winning the heavyweight championship, 


lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship 
* 
Re-scheduled Large Group Meeting 
DR. THOMAS V. MORRIS 
(Assoc. Prof. of Philosophy, Univ. of Notre Dame) On 

'PASCAL on love and life of the Body' 
6:30pm Tuesday, Mar. 5 Keenan-Stanford Chapel All are Welcome 
r 


is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For more information contact Julie at 239-6900 or 283-1291 
7-3, over Bob Jones of Illinois State. 
"I was really surprised with Engler," stated McCann. "Engler wrestles up to his abilities and he wins because of that. He surprised lots of people this weekend. We knew he had an outside shot, but the other guys he was facing all had better records than he did. He did what he had to do." 
Gowens, a junior who reached the NCAA championships last season, will make the trip again this year. Gowens lost the 126­pound championship match to Mark Pustelnik of Northern Iowa, yet had already beaten the third-place finisher. 
King lost the 190-pound championship in sudden death. The sophomore then went on to win his true second match and qualify for the championships. 
"If King looks like he did in his last match-the true sec­ond-he has a great chance at the NCAAs," remarked McCann. "I was pleased to see Steve come back after an emotional and tough loss. He was espe­cially impressive when you con­sider that he is a sophomore." 
Senior Todd Layton of Notre Dame suffered a technical fall at the 4:01 mark of his 150 pound match against Gary Steffensmeier of Northern Iowa. Layton lost his true second match, thus failing to advance to the NCAA meet. 
Fellow Irish senior Mark Gerardi, who had been the top seed at 167 pounds, finished fourth. Gerardi had been to the NCAA championships three years in a row. 
McGrew, a freshman who has been hampered by late-season injuries, will also make the voy­age to Iowa City after placing third at 177 pounds. 
"J.J. wasn't sharp," observed 
able to pass by 1989 champion West Virginia unnoticed. In fact, 
the  Irish  will  face  much  
stronger teams  across  the  
board.  

"The field has taken a giant step forward. Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure are much stronger, Duke looks awesome on paper and we're stronger," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. 
Welsh favors Southern Illinois despite the fact they weren't in the meet last year. Other meet entrants include LaSalle, George Washington and Rutgers, 
Sophomore Tanya Williams will lead the Irish squad in their repeat attempt to capture the meet title. Williams will com­pete in the 200 and 400 individ­
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Representatives 
For more information contact Julie at 239-6900 or 283-1291 
Il1eJ[p[p~ 0001S 
llilli?CQh<fl~ 
-~ J]CD)J)[ng 
Love, Mom and Dad 
K&R, Beth, Margy and Ellen 
McCann. "He was tentative and afraid of injuring his shoulder, which is not his style. I'm not worried about J.J., though. He is once again able and healthy. 
"He was a little rusty this weekend, but the next week and a half will be big for him. The big thing is that he is going to the championships. Now he can focus himself on preparing." 
Despite the tilt towards un­derclassmen heading to the NCAA championships, McCann remains optimistic. 
"Mark Gerardi and Todd Layton had great careers," re­flected McCann. "They have been loyal and r only wish that they could have ended their ca­reers on a happier note. Still, I think that J.J. McGrew and Steve King give us two good chances. (But) every kid they will face is good. There are no patsies at the championships." 
ual medleys and the 200 butter­fly. Since Williams already qualified for NCAAs in these events-unlike most of the field-she won't be rested for the Easterns meet. 
"It will be an exciting chal­lenge for Tanya to face a group of rested swimmers. It's the toughest kind of preparation for what she'll face at NCAAs," Welsh said. 
"Since we planned Easterns in relation to NCAAs, I've been able to get excited about Easterns. It's the last time I'll be able to race before NCAAs," said Williams. 
The Irish begin preliminary and final competitions Wednes­day and will continue through Saturday. 
ing, while Colin Cooley (100 and 200 breaststroke), Ed Broderick (200 breast and 200 individual medley), Tom Whowell (100 backstroke), John Godfrey (200 back), Jim Birmingham (50 and 100 freestyles) and David Nathe (200 free) are also within range. 
Irish coach Tim Welsh feels optimistic about his NCAA hopefuls. 
"I think we're realistically close and realistically far away," he said. "We could have wonderful swims and miss them all. We will make it-the only question that remains is when. The number of guys within range is a testament to that." 
In last year's meet, the Irish finished third to Southern Illinois and West Virginia. All three return this year to face teams from St. Bonaventure, Duke, Western Kentucky, Howard, Rutgers, University of Maryland-Baltimore County, UNC-Wilmington and George Washington. 
Brian Rini 

Welsh thinks Notre Dame will swim faster than last year, with a more balanced "offensive at­tack." 
"Our aim to swim as fast as we can and the points will take care of themselves," Welsh said. 
The Notre Dame women's swim team returns to the Eastern Intercollegiate swim­ming and diving championships this week at Cleveland State, but they're missing one thing-the element of surprize. 
The 1990 champions won't be 


Tuesday, March 5, 1991 The Observer page 15 
LECTURES CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 30 They have the 58 Chihuahua food goods 59 Annual
1 Famous pan 34 Lake Geneva publicationhandler 

resort 
so Prepared
6 Fencing item 

4:15 p.m. Lecture, "Women in Mathematics," Prof. Mary 35 Truckled (to) 11 Fey 
61 Certain

Ellen Hudin, University of Wisconsin, 188 Nieuwland Science 36 TV's Rivera 
revolutions'13 Poe poem
Hall. Sponsored by The Year of Women. 38 Like failed goals durations16 Drama by 
39 DoughtyEuripides 
40Acme 11 Kind of cat or 43 Millstone DOWN 
rug 

44 Fatale woman 
1 Crinkled cloth 18 It hangs around 
49 In opposite
the house 2 "Dondi" 
order 
cartoonist19 At full length 

54 Nonesuch 
3 On the way 21 Dog like creature 
55 Characterized 
4 Opposite of sml 
22 Skirt insert by feeling 5 Emulated Blass 
23 Notwithstanding 56 Kriegsp1el 6 Crackerjack MENU 1 Haley and Trebek 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
B A Maverick brother 
91fnot Notre Dame 
10 Rack's partner Veal Parmesan 11 Last year's trash, Make Your Own Burrito Bar today Maearoni & Cheese =1-,....j..,+=l 12 Ice container 
Baked Whitefish i.=+~.:..j..=-k-1 14 Kettle and 28 Little bits 37 Canal site 48 Current sci. 
~~rtj]ljll Perkins 
49 Grognard, for ..! 15 Rock producer 29 "The Dukes of 39 W1nter bugs shortBrian Hazzard" spinoff 41 In anyway 50 Cohan's "­~:;.+;.:+:;..! 20 High time? 30 Bowl over 42 Turbulence 

Popular Man" 24 Where the 'eart 31 Top-drawer 45 Mystery writer's 
51 Cook book is 32 Lighter of a sort award 52 Short list 25 Dry land 33 Henry James 46 Capital shortener 26 Grandparental biographer 47 Vicki Lawrence 53 Wretched 21 Green shade 36 Flees role 
57 Pub potable 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
I JUST S~W A Coto\~RC.\~l YAcmo~s M<~ AlL .JUS\ tOR />.. L\IX\JR'i CR\JI'SE. A 111!>..1'\tR at C0!-\1>11-R\~~. K'JN CC\o\E WE DON.T E'JER. 
Go ~ '411-CATIONS LIKE TH~T 
W£ SI'£ND A. W\:E.K \~ COLD, IJ~Cot~.tC>RTJI..BLE. ~NI'S EA.G\ ~EAR 9:> l\IJI~G HERE 1\\E Rl:.$1 or 1\\t. Tlti\E Stt.t-'1'5 l\1<:1:. A L\JX\JR'i CR\li'S£. If 
XOlJR \RIPS ARE Ui'IM.~I'l\, 'l'!YJR W\\Ol£ llFE IS A YACAI\ON.1 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1 f.SK£.1) tlt<l!o\ 1r I W/>.'S A. G\Flt:D C\4\LO....Sl-It. 'SAID 1\.1£'( CtRTMNL'I WOIJLO~\ ~~'-lt. PAIP FtR ME. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
---------------------------. 

"You just take your victim, slip 'em into the flex­o-tube, flip the switch, and the Mr. Coils o'Death takes over." 
BILL WATTERSON 
'iOO C~ RtU..Tt: 1\11S llffit. STOR'i 'NI-lE~ 1\.\E 
RE.I'ORit:R5 ~K HOW 
I W£N\ 8.AJ>. 
-

Sports 
Page 16 Tuesday, March 5, 1991 
Missouri repays Notre Dame for last season's loss 
Tigers' outside game heats Smith's final home game contrasts
Up in easy 84-54 Victory with NO's woes 
By RICH KURZ defense limited Notre Dame to 
By FRANK PASTOR 

Sports Writer mostly perimeter shots, and the 
Associate Sports Editor 
Irish could not convert, shoot­

COLUMBIA, Mo-The Irish ing only 29 percent in the first COLUMBIA. Mo.-Doughad to endure another pregame 20 minutes. Smith, Missouri's career re­ceremony for a departing star Down 32-20 at the break, the bounding leader and second last night at Missouri, as NBA­Irish were forced to go to a leading scorer, had just been bound Doug Smith played his man-to-man defense, which al­called for goaltending in the final game at the Hearnes lowed Smith and 6-10 center closing minutes of the Tigers'Center in a 84-54 win for the Chris Heller to grab some 84-54 win over the Irish (12­Tigers. points in the paint. 19) Monday night at the 
Notre Dame coach Digger With Notre Dame playing 
Hearnes Center. Phelps and the Irish wanted to man, Missouri had room to run, Smith and teammate Anthonylimit Smith's celebration to the and their high-octane fast Peeler embraced at halfcourt, pregame variety, and did so for break was too much for Notre grinning mischievously, while the first half with a tight 2-3 Dame to handle. The Tigers 
Notre Dame coach Digger zone. The Tiger star managed went on a 13-1 run early in the Phelps leaned forward in his only four points in the opening second half, and the rout was chair, dejected, amidst 13,300 stanza. on. chants of "Fire Digger" and Unfortunately for the Irish, "We got the big lead when we "Mr. Smith." Mizzou's suspect outside were running," said Heller, who The contrast was striking.shooting showed up. Tiger finished with 13 points. "We 
It was no small coincidence guards Anthony Peeler and play well when were running." that Mr. Smith's final home Melvin Booker burned Notre The stage for the game was game at Mizzou accompaniedDame for 18 points by the half, set on the Tigers first posses­Notre Dame's 19th loss of the combining for six-of-eight sion, which resulted in a three season, one shy of the school shooting-including four-of-six pointer by Peeler-one of four record. from three-point range. he would hit on the night. "We didn't shoot the ball well Meanwhile, the Irish weren't Backcourt mate Booker, not in the first half," said Phelps.helping themselves on the of­see TIGERS I page 12 
see LOSS I page 13

fensive end. A tough Missouri 
Eliminating weight class is a welcome first step 
The super heavyweight class was dropped ------­from this year's Bengal Bouts because of the 
great danger involved. 
That's a start. Now if we could just drop the barbaric sport of boxing from the face of this earth, we would be a lot better off. 
I must admit that I stayed away from this year's Bengal Bouts, so I won't criticize the latest exhibition of this annual event. But 



Dayton loss jeopardizes Irish NCAA bid 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 

The question looming for the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team is whether or not it will make the NCAA tourna­ment for the first time. 
Until last weekend, it ap­peared the team was a lock for a bid. Last Thursday night's 79­76 loss to Dayton, however, put the Irish in jeopardy. The loss knocked Notre Dame out of the Top 25 for the first time in two months and put its chances for an NCAA berth in doubt. 
"We were really down after losing to Dayton. We feel like we let everybody down," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "That was a bad loss. Any time you lose at the end of the year, it's bad." 
The Irish (21-6, 15-1) get are­match with the Flyers Friday in a semifinal matchup at the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference tournament. A victory last year I sat at a ringside table while Ken Tyslac covering the event for the Observer, and I can honestly say that the brutality of boxing World of Sports is ten times as bad when you are right on to,Anllll!l~..-..--..-­of the action as it is when you are 30 feet away in the bleachers. 
The thing I remember most about the 60th Bengal Bouts is wiping a young man's blood off my face and my notebook after he took a series of blows to the head on the ropes directly in front o me. 
My second most vivid memory is feeling totally helpless as Dave Prinzivalli, who had lived next door to me for three years in Keenan Hall, was pounded senseless by Brian Shannon as he became the final fighter to lose a super heavyweight Bengal Bout. Prinzivalli's eyes glazed over as he took repeated blows to the head and midsection. I couldn't tell if he knew where he was. 
There are many Bengal supporters out there who will im­mediately point out that the Bouts do a lot of good. After all, the proceeds do go to the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. Those in charge of the Boxing Club promote the event as an exhibition where the strong bodies of Notre Dame students will fight so that weak bodies in Bangladesh may be nourished. 
The charitable aspect of the Bengal Bouts is admirable, o course. But having students pound each other into oblivion is not the best way to raise money, regardless of the cause. Does the end really justify the means? I think not. 
In the boxing ring, people are allowed to commit acts which would get them thrown in jail if performed on the streets. Yet so many Americans cheer when a Muhammed Ali "floats like a butterfly and stings like a bee." But today Ali, who was once a very articulate man, is but a shadow of his former self because he has simply been hit in the head too many times. It was all legal, too. And boy, did we enjoy watching him fight! 
He was the greatest. But what is he now? 
The sad fact of the matter is that boxing is a big money-maker. And as long as people continue to buy tickets and watch the sport on television, the promoters' wallets will be full and the sport will continue to prosper. 
So before buying those tickets or watching the weekly "Night at the Fights" telecast, we must think of the message we are sending when we applaud any man who knocks another unconscious in front of thousands of bloodthirsty fans. We must seriously consider whether we condone such violence. 
If we think it is acceptable, we should get our collective heads examined. 
But if each of us concludes that the violence indeed has to stop, maybe we will be one step closer to stopping the flow of blood inside the ring forever. 
By SCOTT BRUTOCAO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

It never happened like this before. 
The Notre Dame baseball team (7-2), traveling to Texas to participate in its annual tri­team challenge against seventh­ranked Texas, St. Mary's and Trinity, vanquished all its op­ponents in convincing style. 
It may be that the 18th­ranked Irish are as good, or better, than their billing indi­cates. 
"I think the players have come to expect (these kinds of victories) from time to time," said Irish coach Pat Murphy, whose team is off to its best start since 1980. "I like the fact that their expectations are not based on what uniforms the other teams have on, but what's inside themselves." 
Notre Dame started its Texas 
over Dayton would put them into the championship game Saturday. 
If Notre Dame should win the MCC tournament this weekend, it will finish with the same record as last year (23-6). But last season the Irish finished with a 14-game winning streak; this year's Irish squad has won only five of its last eight games. 
Still, the Irish are not out of the NCAA tournament hunt. Victories over perennial powers Louisiana Tech and St. Joseph's earlier in the season thrust them into the national limelight, a big consideration in determin­ing bids. 
There are several factors, however, which work against Notre Dame. 
First, as McGraw noted, the tournament selection committee does not look highly upon teams which stumble late in the season. The loss to Miami (Ohio) at home two weeks ago especially hurt when consider­ing that a loss to DePaul at the Joyce ACC was cited as a pri­mary reason why the Irish were not invited to the big dance last year. 
Second, Notre Dame's strength of schedule rating is horrible. Its two games apiece with MCC rivals Marquette (7­
20) and Saint Louis (0-26) especially were damaging, but the unusually poor records of opponents such as Old Do­minion (4-20), St. Joseph's (15­
12) and UCLA (14-13) also brought down the rating. 
Third, the MCC does not re­ceive an automatic bid, a luxury 22 conferences enjoy. The MCC never has sent a representative to the NCAAs. 
There are two leagues in the region which the Irish particu­larly are watching this week­end. 
"The Big Eight and the Gateway are big keys for us 
see CHANCE I page 13 

Irish blow through Texas for five wins 
triumph Friday with a 13-4 scalding of the Longhorns in front of 4, 736 flabbergasted fans. The victory was decisive, its completeness unparalleled. With the nine-run loss, Texas experienced its third-worst whipping in the 24-year tenure of head coach Clif Gustafson. 
"There's no question-we spanked them," said Murphy. "But I believe Texas showed what kind of team they were when they beat Illinois three straight times over the week­end. But our win wasn't a fluke. We dominated in every phase of the game." 
Sophomore All-America choice David Sinnes (1-0) earned the victory for the Irish, posting seven innings, allowing seven hits and walking six. He allowed two runs, both earned. 
The Irish got on the board in the first inning when Eric Danapilis singled, moved to third on two sacrifices, and came home on a double-steal with Frank Jacobs on first. 
Notre Dame scored seven more runs before Texas passed one around the bases. 
After scoring two runs in the second inning and one in the fourth, the Irish exploded for four runs in the fifth. They loaded the bases with one out, chasing Texas starter Chris Cox (2-1) out of the game. But re­liever Jay Vaught walked Layson, allowing one run, then hit Dan Bautch with a pitch, surrendering another. Then Danapilis reached base on an error by the first baseman, which allowed two more runs to come in. 
That made it 8-0 going into the bottom of the fifth, and although Texas scored four runs in the next four innings, it 
see TEXAS I page 14 




