

VOL. XXIII NO. 97 WEDNESDAY , FEBRUARY 20, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

SAINT MARY·s ELECTION RESULTS 
II 
STUDENT BODY 1992 VanDersarl --·51% Proto -29% Zint -19% 
1993 Green 34
75", -% }RUNOFF
Marzolf --39% 
Lowry 

1994 Petrovic 
---70%

Hall 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Lowry ticket victorious in Saint Mary's election 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Assistant Saint Mary"s Editor 
Weeks of campaigning and hundreds of fliers later. five student government selections have been chosen to represent Saint Mary's. 
Elections took place during all meals on the Le Mans side of the dining hall. The voter turnout was "pretty good" ac­cording to junior Becky McMa­hon. "I can't give a percentage, but there has been a good frnshman turnout," she contin­ued. 
Frnshman Jane Cady also ob­snrvml that "lots of people have been talking about voting." Cady serves on the freshman board and was one of many pollsters yesterday. 
Election Commission Lori Marucut felt the turnout was much het-ter than previous ynars. "I feel we had excellent 
THE TYPICAL FRESHMAN MINDSET 
These are among conclusions based on 1990 surveys taken by UCLA and the American Council on Education including Notre Dame's first-year students. 
65% of NO freshmen list being "v~ry well off financially" 
as an essential objective, compared to 45% in 1972. 
80% of NO freshmen placed raising afamily high on their list of objectives. while the figure was75% among first-year students at comparable universities. 



The environment looms as the issue of the 1990s. 90% of freshmen agree that "government is not controlling pollution," up 16 points since 1980. 35% of students expect to be involved in "environmental cleanup," up from 22% in 1980. Between 1972 and 1990, the percentage of NO freshmen calling themselves 'conservative" doubled from 17 to 34, while those calling themselves "liberal" fell from 35 to 21%. 
In the last 10 years, the percentage of freshmen favoring the legalization of marijuana fell from 25 to 10%. In the peer group, 20% favor legalization, against 40% in 1980. 



~n 1972, 26% of NO freshman had an average high school grade of Aor At, while in 1990 the figure had jumped to 59%, ten percentage points above the peer group. 
The most popular careers for NO freshmen remain engineering, medicine, business and law, but engineering dropped from 25% in 1980 to 19% in 1990. 
NO freshmen showed and increase, from 31 to 41% between 1989 and 1990, in listing "the promotion of racial under­standing' among their priorities. Notre Dame's nonwhite freshman enrollment was arecord high 15%, but the figure at other highly selective private universities was 21%. 



Entering Notre Dame students continue to be where they want to be. NO is the first choice of over 85% of students 
who matriculate. 68% expect to achieve a B average, and 
88% expect "to be satisfied with college." 
The Observer/Michael Muldoon 
participation from the student 
body." 

57 percent of the student body voted in the election, which is higher than previous years, according to Marucut. 
The results are as follows: 
•The 
Maureen Lowry ticket won the student body election by a margin of 7 5 percent over the Alissa Murphy ticket which received 25 percent. 

•In 
senior presidential elec­tions, Liz VanDersarl won by a margin of 51 percent over Laura Proto that received 29 percent and Sharon Zint receiv­ing 19 percent. 

•There 
will be a runoff for the junior class president between Kelly Green, who received 34 percent of the vote and Martha Marzolf, who received 39 percent." 

•
Elizabeth Petrovic won the sophomore presidential slot by 70 percent over Casey Hall re­ceiving 29 percent. 


Iraqi troops mavin south under fire 
AP Photo 
L C I B. 
ance p. J_orn uane o ~nona, . 1nn., reads a book as his comrade, Staff Sgt. Nelson George of Amster­dam, Mo., enJoys some Saudi sunshine Monday. Both are members of the 1st Marine Division. 

ND freshmen value family life 
Results of nationwide freshman survey announced 
Special to The Observer 
Entering Notre Dame stu­
dents are putting more stress 
on financial well-being while 
continuing to put a high value 
on family life and growing con­
cern for racial understanding. 
These are among conclusions 
that can be drawn from com­
paring surveys of the nation's 
freshmen classes taken over the 
past 25 years by the American 
Council on Education and the 
University of California at Los 
Angeles and including Notre 
Dame's first-year students. 
The number of Notre Dame freshmen who list being "very well off financially" as an essential objective has grown from 45 percent in 1972 to 65 percent last fall, showing an 8 percent increase just from 1989. The comparable figure for all highly selective private universities in the 1990 survey was 64 percent. 
While entering Notre Dame students have not differed sub­stantially from their peer group in wanting the moneyed life, they have consistently placed a higher value on family, although the gap has narrowed. 
In 1989, 76 percent of Notre Dame freshmen placed raising a family high among their ob­jectives, compared with 63 per­cent of their counterparts at all highly selective universities. 
In 1990, the Notre Dame per­centage had gone to 80 and the peer groups to 75. 
Notre Dame freshmen showed 
a significant increase, from 31 
to 41 percent between 1989 
and 1990, in those listing the 
"promotion of racial under­
standing" among their priori­
ties. This shift came as Notre 
Dame enrolled a record number 
of minority students. 
The University, however, con­
tinues to lag behind its peer 
group, as the average nonwhite 
freshman enrollment at all 
highly selective private 
universities is 21 percent, 
versus Notre Dame's 15 
percent. 
Entering Notre Dame stu­dents. continue to have better and better high school perfor­mance records, better than previous Notre Dame classes and better than entering classes at peer universities. 
In 1972, 26 percent of Notre Dame freshmen had an average grade of "A" or "A+", in 1990 the figure was 59 percent, 10 percentage points above the peer group. 
Politically, Notre Dame stu­dents are describing themselves as more conservative. Between 1972 and 1990, the percentage of Notre Qame students calling themselves "conservative" dou­bles from 17 to 34. During the same period, those describing themselves as "liberal" declined from 35 to 21 percent. 
The "middle-of-the-roaders" have been stable, from 45 per­cent in 1972 to 43 percent in 1990. In contrast, the peer 
group entering students are 
more liberal. 
During the last 18 years, the 
estimated parental income for 
first-year Notre Dame students 
and those at other highly selec­

tive private institutions of · 
learning rose appreciably. 
Almost three-fourths of par­ents of freshmen at Notre Dame, in 1990, earned $50,000 or more annually, compared with fewer than one-third in 1972. Parents' incomes for en­tering freshmen at peer univer­sities show comparable in­creases. 
Other observations drawn from a comparison of Notre Dame freshmen surveys over the years. 

The most dramatic change between 1972 and 1990 among reasons given by Notre Dame freshmen to attend college was "to become a more cultured person." Thirty-nine percent cited this in 1980, 53 percent in 1990. 
The environment looms as the issue of the 1990s with entering students. Ninety percent of freshmen agree that "government is not controlling pollution," up 16 percentage points in a decade. Also, the percentage of students who ex­pect to be involved in "environmental cleanup" moved from 22 percent in 1980 to 35 percent in 1990. 
More and more students, ar­see FRESHMEN I page 5 
ences in interpreting photo­graphic evidence. 
"I think he's hurting. I think he's hurting very badly," said Lennon, 48, of Honolulu. 
But Lennon predicted allied forces can still expect to en­counter significant resistance in a ground campaign against Saddam Hussein's forces. 
"I think there's a battle up there because the Republican Guard is still in existence. There are patriots in Iraq just as there are patriots in every country," Lennon said. 
The big question now is, "how long will they fight?" he said. 

IN SOUTHWESTERN SAUDI ARABIA (AP) -Iraqi convoys keep moving south toward the front line despite the allied pounding of Iraqi ground forces, the commander of an F­111 fighter wing said Tuesday. 
With allied forces poised for a possible ground offensive, Air Force Col. Tom Lennon said long-range F-lllF fighter­bombers are knocking out Iraqi tanks, artillery, ammunition storage areas and airfields in Iraq and occupied Kuwait. 
He said his 48th Tactical Fighter Wing has destroyed more than 200 hardened air­craft shelters. He said this was 
D f w· 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 

• 
Red Cross aid 1page 7 

• 
Pollution from war I page 7 

• 
Race relations I page 6 

• 
Psychologists help I page 6 


higher than the official Air Force figure because of differ­

M" 
,.. I ;v:; ' li~ V1SU109i .VSD89n09W page 2 Wednesday, February 20, 1991
The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 


In education, don't whine­do something 
In last week's student------­body elections, the roughly fifty percent of us who did vote, also answered questions on an attached referendum regarding the effect of class sizes on education at Notre Dame. Ch . . W 
The results of that nstme alsh referendum were clear: Asst. News Editor Students believe they have been adversely affected by the size of classes at this university. In fact, 58 percent of respondents claimed that they were 'very upset' or 'somewhat upset' about class sizes; 50 percent of respondents agreed that their education had been negatively affected. 
Classes may be extraordinarily large for any number of reasons. As we strive to become a recognized research university, precious hours previously allotted to teaching are now allocated for research, and this, we may concede, is a necessary evil if we are to reach our goal. 
However, if professors must spend more of their time on research, then additional hours of teaching must come from somewhere else. The obvious solution is to hire more professors. While this alternative is a costly one, a university can hardly be said to be 'growing' when only one part of the university (research) is receiving adequate attention. 
A university is only as impressive as its student body. While Harvard may· be able to get away with neglecting its undergraduates, Notre Dame, with its deeper commitment to providing a first-rate Catholic education, cannot. 
A more temporary plan for reducing class sizes is for students to take more classes that do not fall into the "10 a.m. to 2 p.m. zone." If each student took at least one class earlier or later in the day, the problem would be greatly diminished. The university can also help in this area by offering more Monday/Wednesday classes. These classes are usually offered earlier and later in the day and open new and numerous scheduling options. If a student plans right, he or she may even end up with Fridays off. 
The problem with implementing any of these solutions is that they take time and effort-things to which no one at this uni­versity seems to be willing to commit. We have watched Notre Dame emerge as a re­search university for the past four years, at the expense of the quality of undergraduate education. We have made strides toward one goal, so now it is time to remember and act on Notre Dame's long-standing commitment to undergraduate excellence. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
No mawrity winner in Benin elections 
•TOKYO -Japan's future construction workers are expected to trade hard hats for computers and oversee armies of robots assembling buildings in factory-like enclosures. Masao Miyaguchi of Takenaka Corp., a construction giant, said such building methods had been a dream for years and are becoming reality as industry runs short of workers. Japan's strong economy, increasing affluence and declining birth rate are com­bining to create a growing labor shortage officials see as more of a threat than the "oil shocks" of the 1970s. They also say, however, that necessity could create an even more formidable industrial system. In the 1970s, Japan responded to the oil crisis by building more efficient, technologically advanced factories. Now, the experts say, 

OF INTEREST 
Mostly sunny today with highs in the lower 40s. Partly cloudy tonight with lows i n the lower 30s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

City  H  L  
Athens  61  48  
Atlanta  58  47  
Baghdad  60  43  
Boston  35  33  
Chicago  43  36  
Dallas-Ft.Worth  79  47  
Denver  43  21  
Detroit  40  35  
Honolulu  83  65  
Houston  7 5  60  
Indianapolis  57  51  
London  45  34  
Los Angeles  75  55  
Madrid  43  34  
Miami Beach  73  70  
Moscow  21  14  
New York  36  36  
Paris  46  30  
Philadelphia  44  40  
Portland. Ore.  54  4 7  
Riyadh  77  58  
Rome  59  50  
St. Louis  73  40  
San Francisco  68  51  
South Bend  5 0  3 8  
Tokyo  50  34  
Washington, D.C.  45  42  

companies short of workers ·are increasing their use of high-tech robots that probably will raise Japanese productivity and quality even higher. 

NATIONAL 

Killers' grison sentences commuted 
Buttons the Bear shows bare buttocks 
•STAMFORD, Conn. -A couple who bought a $3 cartoon videotape of Buttons the Bear and Rusty the Fox for their two children were horrified to find the tape contained an explicit 25-minute pornographic movie. ''I'm outraged," Larry Laslow said Tuesday. "I think that it's someone's sick act." Laslow and his wife, Carol, who live in Danbury, purchased the tape Sunday from Circus World toy store. The tape came in a carton decorated with cartoon characters and sealed in cellophane. 
p.m. in the Holy Cross Parlor at Saint Mary's College. 
•The 
League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC) is sponsoring a hospitality luncheon in the CSC, tomorrow from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. to benefit Proyecto Madre. 

•Junior 
Parents' Weekend pictures taken during the Friday night Gala Event will be on display Wednesday, Thursday and Friday from noon to 6 p.m. in Theodore's. 

•The 
ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club will meet at Theodore's tonight from 8 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1792: President Washington signed an act creating the U.S. Post Office. 

• 
In 1809: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled the power of the federal government is greater than that of any individual state. 

• 
In 1839: Congress prohibited dueling in the District of Columbia. 

• 
In 1895: American abolitionist Frederick Douglass died in Washington. 

• 
In 1971: The National Emergency Warning Center in Colorado 

erroneously ordered radio and TV stations across the U.S. to go off the air. The mistake was not resolved for more than 30 minutes. 

• 
In 1987: Soviet authorities released Jewish activist Josef Begun, who had spent more than three years in prison for teaching Hebrew. 

• 
Ten years ago: The space shuttle Columbia cleared the final major hurdle to its maiden launch as the spacecraft fired its three engines in a 20-second test. 


Sadly, however, no one cares. Fifty percent of us don't even care enough to vote in our own student body elections. The only thing we put any effort into is complaining. 
Now is the time to care about your educa­tion. Would you spend $16,000 on a car and not care how it runs? Get active. Tell the administration what you want. You may even be surprised to find that they'll listen. Then again, if you are simply "too busy" to get involved, you'll get the education you deserve. 
Tuesday's Staff 

Sports Systems Ken Tysiac Mark Sloan 
News 
Joe Moody Frank Rivera 

Mike Murphy Production Lisa Bourdon Graphics
Accent 

Melissa Cusack Brendan ReganJohn Fischer Jake FrostPaige Smoron 
VIewpoint" Mike Muldoon Rich Riley
Ad Design Doug Bronsing 

Circulation Traci Hupp 
Scoreboard Bill O'Rourke Rene Ferran Matt Novak Kevin Hardman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
•The 
Diocesan Volunteer of New York program representative Lianne Stevenson will be on campus today in the Center for Social Concerns from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. to answer questions concerning a year of teaching in the Bronx. 

•Charles 
Carney of the Passionist Lay Missioners will be in the esc today from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 

•The 
London and Rome summer programs will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's. For more information call Anthony Black at 284-4460. 


•women for the Environment meet tonight at 7:30 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 19, 1991 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
201.40 ... .11
189.90 Million 

S&P COMPOSITE 369.39  A T  .33  
DOW JONES INDUSTR2,932.18  IALS -ijr  2.47  
PRECIOUS METALS  

GOLD 'i} $.10 to$ 364.50oz. SILVER ~ 9.9¢ to$ 3.69/oz. 
.------------­
-~-------~~-----~-----~~~~----­
Wednesday, February 20,1991 The Observer page 3 

IHPC discusses 
idea to form 

new committee 
By CARRIE DWYER 
News Writer 
At last night's meeting. the Hall Presidents' Council dis­cussed a proposed change to the Student Body Constitution that would create a Senate Ethics Committee whose pur­pose would be to "review and address any allegation of mis­use of student funds or mis­conduct of student organiza­tions." 
The committee will have jurisdiction over any student orgn.niza.tion that receives money from Student Activities, but will not oversee the residence halls' use of funds. 
The proposal, presented by 
Student Senator Lisa 
Bostwick, will be subject to a 
vote in the Senate next week. 
If approved, the proposal will 
then be presented and voted 
upon by the student body. 
In other HPC business, a 
representative from the 
Student Senate gave the 
monthly business report 
concerning the student-run 
businesses on campus. 
Adworks. ND Video and Irish 
Gardens all posted profits for 
the period. 
Blanco and Fiorenza hold open meeting 

By ANNMARIE; ZELL 
News Writer 
Joe Blanco, president of stu­dent government for the 1991­92, in an open forum meeting gave a brief review of what he and vice-president Dave Flo­renzo plan to accomplish next year. 
Blanco asserted that his and Florenzo's main concern is the undergraduates, as the univer­sity transforms into a research university. Florenzo conceded that, "We can't redirect the university in it's move toward research, but we need to bring the issues of the undergraduate to the administration. " 
Although they feel that in the long run the change to a re­search university is in the best interest of the school and the students, they feel that the stu­dlilnts in the interim will be hurt. 
To illustrate the problem. Florenzo referred to a class that he and Joe share. The professor of the class stated that the same class that now has 40 students, had 14 students five years ago. 
Blanco and Florenzo, in gen­eral. plan to present the issue to the administration. In addi­tion, they have some sugges­tions which they feel might alle­viate the problem. Perhaps, asking professors to teach three classes instead of two, or establish workshops for teaching assistants. Blanco gave a brief review of what he and Florenzo plan to accomplish next year. 
Blanco, referring to their goals for next year, said, "We are working on fund raising for the lecture series already." 
They plan that their first re­port to Board of Trustees will be concerning the student voice in the Notre Dame community, temporarily titled, "Do We Have Any Say Here?" 
Blanco also plans to have an extensive review of the honor code perhaps through a univer­sity-wide survey. He said, "If the students don't want it. It isn't going to work." 
At the open forum, Rob Pasin also gave a brief review of his and Fred Tombar's administra­tion. Pasin described his admin­istration as following a two­prong approach: on-and off­campus issues that are less concerned with the NO com­munity with long and short term goals in each prong. " 
The short-term "on-campus issues" included the lecture series and the 24-hour lounge in LaFortune. 
"For long term goals for on­campus issues we have concen­trated on the Board of Trustees reports," said Pasin. 
The Board of Trustees, ac­cording to Pasin is, "a policy­setting body. They own the Uni­versity. They are the highest level. We submit reports to them and make recommenda­tions. We have submitted a re­port earlier this year on cul­tural diversity. In May, we will submit a report on class size." 
For short term goals on issues outside off Notre Dame, the student government this year sponsored six students to travel to El Salvador on the an­niversary of the murder of the six Jesuit priests and then dis­cuss their experiences. The stu­dent government also funded the controversial pro-life trip to Washington. 
"It is my hope that student government will strive to be concerned with more than snow on the sidewalks," said Pasin. 
Tombar also reminisced on their year in student govern­ment as well as student gov­ernment in general. 
"Most people, if they knew what student government was, they didn't know what it was doing," said Tom bar. "We at­tempted to bridge this gap. We visited almost every dorm, put information and advertisements in The Observer." 
Looking toward the future, Tombar acknowledges a gap between the administration and the student body. Tombar feels that student government should "concentrate on bridging that gap." 
Several students brought up issues that concerned them, in­cluding: parietals, co-ed dorms, dining hall meal plans, gender relations and the effectiveness of student government. 
A freshman voiced her sur­prise that parietals or co-ed dorms were not a larger issue during the campaign. The pres­idents responded that these is­sues need to be explored the university. 
Another student was felt that the obligatory 20-meal plan, regardless of the actual amount of meals eaten, is a tremendous "waste of money" for on­campus students. 
Several students voiced their opinions that many of the uni­versity policies including pari­etals and one sex dorms were facilitating poor gender rela­tions. There seemed to be a consensus that there is a lack of informal interrelations between the sexes at Notre Dame. 
The example was presented that the 2 a.m. curfew sends a message to students just having a casual talk that they are do­ing something wrong. 
Other students said late night chats are next to impossible now without feeling uncom­fortable, due to parietals and single sex dorms. 
In response to questions con­cerning the effectiveness of student government, the presi­dents responded that the stu­dent government· does have the potential power of 7,000 un­dergraduates. 




1991 ICEBERG DEBATES

Daily Specials 
Host dorm in italics

lOUARTER FINAL RESULTSl Feb. 19 
r-----~---------------------.--~~--------------------------~--·~-----------~--------------------~~ 
Wednesday, February 20,1991 
page4 The Observer 
Supreme Court will decide on military service case 
Justice Department lawyers that said continued judicial su-Denver's public schools is still does not violate religious 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The said. pervision is required because required because they never freedom. Supreme Court said Tuesday it Although the court's action the county schools never achieved full integration. •Rejected a steel industry will decide whether employers comes at a time when more achieved full integration. •Agreed to decide in a New challenge to air pollution con­ever may bar their workers than 200,000 reservists have The high court's decision, also York case whether states may trol standards the government from serving in the military or been called to active duty be­expected in 1992, could provide compensate crime victims by adopted for "particulate mat­military reserves. cause of the Persian Gulf war, important new guidelines as to seizing the profits paid to ter" in 1987. 
The court said it will review a they will not be affected. just what amounts to full racial criminals for books, movies and The reservist case dates back 
U.S. district judge's ruling in The Alabama case before the integration of a school district. other depictions of their to 1987, when William "Sky" Alabama -and one upheld by court focuses on a federal law The justices left that question exploits. King was denied a three-year an appellate panel -that said dealing with reserve duty for unanswered in recently •Ruled by a 6-2 vote in a leave of absence from his hospi­an employee's request for a training; not a similar law deciding an Oklahoma City case Michigan case that states may tal job in Birmingham to take a military leave may be denied if dealing with reservists called by and making it easier for school impose "value-added" taxes on full-time position with the Al­it is "unreasonable." A decision presidential order to active duty districts to escape forced busing out-of-state companies doing abama National Guard. is expected in 1992. in time of crisis. plans imposed by federal business within their borders. 
The Bush administration In a separate action, the jus­courts. •Let stand the federal gov-A federal trial judge and the asked the justices to reverse the tices voted to decide whether In other matters Tuesday, the ernment's random drug-testing 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­lower courts' decision. "In view federal courts should continue court: program for airline employees. peals ruled against King. The of Congress' increasing reliance supervising the racial desegre­•Turned away a Denver •Allowed California to tax the appeals court said the Veterans' on the reserve forces as an in­gation of student populations in schools racial desegrfgation distribution of books and pam­Re-employment Rights Act does tegral part of the nation's mili­DeKalb County, Ga., public case that began 22 years ago, phlets used by followers of the not require employers to honor tary preparedness, the question schools. letting stand a ruling that fed-Hare Krishna religion, letting a leave request if it is not is one of great importance," The court will rAview a ruling era! court supervision over stand a ruling that the state tax reasonable. 

--------------------------------------------------~ 
American ExpressAnnouncesA GreatNew Travel Program 
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime-because
Nowstudents cangetthe Card there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is
and get 3roundtrips on Continental 
7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all
Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include aquarterly magazine filled with informa­There's only one way to cover alot of territory without spending tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable alot of money. And that's by getting the American Express<~ Card. discounts from leading retailers. It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank Continental Airlines. 
address and account number on hand). What's more, 
Just look at the map and pick the place youti like with our special student offer, it's easier to get the to visit. If it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you Card now while you're still in school than it may can use acertificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 
. CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
CONTINENTAL
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 
Complere rerms and conditions of this travel olfer will arrivf' with your ceruficates. Continemal Airlines alone Is responsible for fulfillment of this olfer. American Express assumes no liability for Cominental Airlines' performance. ~ 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. 
w 

Wednesday, February 20,1991 The Observer 
page 5 

Board names recipients of awards to be presented 
Special to The Observer 
During its annual winter meeting, the board of directors of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association named the recipients of three awards to be presented later this year. 
Secretary of the Air Force Donald Hice, a 1961 Notre Dame graduate, will receive the Fr. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. Award. 
After being graduated from Notre Dame as a chemical engineering major, Rice re­ceived a doctoral degree from Purdue University. For fifteen years before being appointed to his present position, Hice was president and chief executive officer of the Rand Corporation. 
American Heart e.•a Association V 

Roger Valdlserrl 
The Sorin Award, named in honor of Notre Dame's founder, is annually presented to a graduate distinguished by service to the University. It will be presented to Rice at the As­sociation's Heunion '91 banquet on June 8. 
Roger Valdiserri, associate director of athletics and a 1954 Notre Dame graduate, will re­ceive the James E. Armstrong Award. 


Sister Jean Lenz 

Valdiserri has worked for the University's athletic depar.t­ment for 24 years and is widely known and respected for his work as a sports publicist. 
Among the numerous other honors he has received are the Arch Ward Award from the College Sports Information Di­rectors Association and the in­augural Achiever's Award from the Black College Sport Infor­mation Director's Association. 
Don Rice 

He serves the Knight Commis­sion on Intercolfegiate Athletics as its executive assistant. 
The Armstrong Award, named for the first director of the Alumni Association, is an­nually presented to a graduate employed by the University for exemplary service. It will be presented to Valdiserri at the April 29 Alumni Senate meet­ing. 
Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for student af­fairs, will receive the William 
D. Reynolds Award. 

Lenz was graduated from the College of St. Francis in 1952 and obtained a master's degree in theology from Notre Dame in 1967. As rector of Farley Hall from 1973 to 1983 and as rec­tor and chaplain in Notre Dame's undergraduate pro­gram in London, she was greatly influential in the Uni­versity's coeducational trans­formation. 
An affectionately regarded confidante of faculty members, administrators and especially students, she was an instructor in the theology department from 197 3 to 1986, when she assumed her present responsi­bilities in student affairs. 
The Reynolds Award, named for the late 1954 alumnus and past president of the Alumni Association, is given annually to a graduate distinguished in service to young people. 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23 10 AM -5 PM 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
Stages of relationships Expectations for the future Steps in making healthy decisions 
COMMENTS FROM LAST TIME: 
"It was nice to be able to have time to sit down and discuss our relationship!" "A good balance of time together, lecture and take-home 
materials" "An excellent opportunity to examine our relationship in a comprehensive way" 
PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. Applications are due by Wednesday, February 20 

(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 
Freshmen 
continued from page 1 
riving at Notre Dame, agree 
that abortion should be legal 
and homosexual acts should be 
permitted. 
Freshmen supporting legal 

abortion rose from 20 percent 
in 1980 to 40 percent in 1990. 
The percentage in favor of 
"prohibiting homosexual rela­
tions" dropped from 46 percent 
to 30 percent in the same pe­
riod. 
Between 1980 and 1990, ma­

triculating students at peer 
universities moved from 64 to 
70 percent supporting legal 
abortion, while maintaining 
roughly the same percentage 
against homosexual relations 
as that shown by Notre Dame's 
entering students at the end of 
the decade. 
The percentage of entering 

students favoring the legaliza­tion of marijuana dropped from 25 to 10 percent in the last 10 years. Double the per­centage of first-year students at other private highly selective schools favor legalization, but this also represents one-half the number of a decade ago. 
The most popular careers for entering Notre Dame freshmen remain engineering, medicine, business and law, but engineering dropped from 25 percent in 1980 to 19 percent in 1990. 
Entering Notre Dame stu­dents continue to be where they want to be, as the University remains the first choice of more than 85 percent of those who matriculate. They also continue to be confident of academic success and scholas­tic satisfaction. For example, 68 percent expect to achieve a "B" average and 88 percent expect "to be satisfied with col­lege." 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Associate News Editor 
To apply, please submit a two-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 20, to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
~------·~-~ -~ 
page 6 Wednesday, February 20, 1991 
OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Psychologists pledge free help 
WASHINGTON (AP) -At­tempting to reduce the mental stresses of war, 8,000 psychol­ogists have pledged to help their communities cope with the Persian Gulf conflict for free, their association said Tuesday. 
"We learned from Vietnam that we ignore the psychologi­cal consequences of war at our own peril," said Bryant Welch, executive director for profes­sional practice of the American Psychological Association. 
"Psychology cannot undo the ravages of war, but with prompt intervention now, we can at least reduce the long-term mental anguish that it causes," Welch said. 
The APA said it was "overwhelmed" that nearly one in five clinical psychologists contacted agreed to participate in its program to counsel schools, families, community groups and others about the war. 
"I personally don't like the 
war, but there are troops out 
there and families who are suf­
fering, so I think that has to be 
put aside," said Susan Hamil­
ton, a psychologist who signed 
up in Manchester, N.H. "I don't 
recall an effort like this before, 
sort of a call to psychologists in 
the nation." 
The APA scheduled a news conference Wednesday with se­nators John Glenn, D-Ohio, and John McCain, R-Ariz., to unveil "Operation Cpmmunity Assis­tance Links." Four toll-free telephone lines are being in­stalled, as is a computer pro­gram developed to match . callers with nearby psycholo­
gists. 
Glenn and McCain, a former 
Vietnam prisoner of war, head 
the Senate's Persian Gulf Task 
Force on Military Families. 
Eight-thousand psychologists 
volunteering two or three hours 
a week, at an average of $80 an 
hour, translates into as much as $8 million in free work a month, the APA said. The asso­ciation, which sent 50,000 "Dear Colleague" letters on Jan. 25, expects to eventually have 10,000 volunteers. 
The needs, Welch said, are many. 
For example, the Washington Adventist Hospital called the APA recently seeking someone to work with parents whose children have been deployed in the gulf. The hospital will soon be matched with an area psy­chologist. 
Hamilton said the war seeps into general practice, tou. 
People have reported war-re­lated nightmares and a couple talked of marital strains, she said. 
"They didn't come in specifi­cally for this (the war), but he is a reservist and they realized he probably was going to be called up and this raised their anxiety in a lot of different ways," she said. 
Racism disappearing among soldiers 
IN EASTERN SAUDI ARABIA (AP) -Ask a Marine about bigotry and you'll probably get an answer about survival. 
"I don't give a damn what color this person next to me is as long as he is covering my back," said Lance Corp. Kevin Bobo, 21, of Memphis, Tenn. "He can be black, white or a green Martian." 
Racism has not disappeared in the U.S. military, but the di­vision between a white officer corps and black enlisted ranks that marked the Vietnam War has largely gone. 
Still, many blacks and other minorities in the United States oppose the war because the high ratio of minority troops means they could bear the brunt of casualties. 
Less than 13 percent of the 

U.S. population is black, but blacks account for 21 percent of all U.S. military personnel. In the Marines, blacks make up 
16.9 percent of Marine troops in Operation Desert Storm. 
Minority soldiers interviewed said joining the military is a way out of poverty. Many pointed to a much-admired role model: Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who is black. 
Powell, who has made four trips to Saudi Arabia since Au­gust, had a visible effect on the minority soldiers in the units he visited. Many strained through the throng to try to touch him. 
"He is a role model, not just for blacks but for anyone who grew up in any way underprivi­leged," said First Sgt. Frank Sinkler. 
Still, many minority soldiers expect racism always will exist. 
"Things are a hell of a lot better now than they were, but you still have to deal with that hard-core 10 percent who will never change, whatever hap­pens," said Staff Sgt. Bruce Shaw. 
He transferred from his last unit because a senior non­commissioned officer made life miserable for blacks. Outbursts of racism within units usually dissipate quickly. 
"You may use racial slurs in a fight, but when it's over you will be buddy, buddy," Bobo said. 
Unlike everyday life, the mili­tary gives minorities a chance for immediate redress if the si­tuation becomes unbearable, blacks said. 
"We know it's out there, but we don't tolerate it," said Staff Sgt. Freddie Torres, 33, of Pa­terson, N.J. 
Another black soldier, Lt. Col. Buster Diggs of Colusa, Calif., is on the verge of being promoted to full colonel after 21 years in the Marines. 
"The military has been so successful because it can legis­late people's actions and make it stick," he said. "The situation in the Marines today is rel­atively simple. If you perform, you get a promotion. If you don't perform, you don't go nowhere." 
A large part of the change since Vietnam comes from changes in the United States. That war occurred at a time when black frustrations re­sulted in race riots. 
Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer, the top Marine in Saudi Arabia, said in a recent interview that a mix of drugs, lack of discipline and racial tension brought the entire military to a low point in the early 1970s. 

Honoring soldiers 
A Native American flag dance is performed to open a special cere­monial honor dance Monday night in Spokane, Wash., as mem­ber~ of Northwest Indian tribes congregated to salute and pray for Nat1ve American soldiers serving in the Persian Gulf. 
U.S. warships hit two mines, then discover large minefield 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia (AP) ­Mine damage inflicted on two 
U.S. warships in the Persian Gulf led to the discovery of a large, Iraqi-laid minefield astride a main shipping chan­nel, U.S. military sources said Tuesday. 
With the missile cruiser USS Princeton under tow to a gulf port for damage assessment, and the status of the helicopter carrier USS Tripoli unclear, U.S. and British minesweepers were deployed to begin clearing the danger zone. 
The 18,000-ton Tripoli, serv­ing as flagship for an allied mine-clearing task that had be­gun the same day, hit an un­derwater contact mine that blew a 16-foot-wide hole in its bow and left it adrift in mine­infested waters for hours with­out power. 
The Princeton was rocked by another explosion 10 miles away as ocean minesweepers and six Navy MH-53 Sea Stal­lion helicopter minesweepers operating from Tripoli's deck were pinpointing other mines with smoke markers. 
U.S. officers said it was be­lieved an "influence mine," triggered by the cruiser's engine noise or magnetic field. blew up under the Princeton, damaging its hull and partially disabling its steering gear. 

THE 
Fathers and Brothers 
Through vision, work, and prayer they have given life to 
a great university, enriching our world with timeless 
values, caring service. 

Holy Cross also serves a variety of ministries: schools, parishes, foreign missions, service to the poor and others. 
Far information about the one-year Candidate Program at Notre Dame write: 
Vocation Director Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
239-6385 
. . .. .. .·-.. ,. ,. .-~ ................. -......... --... --... -·------·-· 
~"'t~r-'""J'.t ._ • .L ..~ ... "'~.-<~'.t ..lr ~ •-:-'\ .......·.-of •• %.~..... ~,­

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN LAFORTUNE 
APPLICATION DEADUNE IS 
MARCH 1, 1991 

. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
OPERATION DESERT STORM
Wednesday, February 20, 1991 
page 7 

Different points of view 
Jennifer Schmidt, whose only son, Pfc. Philip Schmidt is in the Persian Gulf, argues in favor of the Gulf War with anti-war protestor AI Cole at Lafayette Park across from the White House on Monday. Schmidt participated in a President's Day "Support the Troops" march from the Capitol to the park. 
Red Cross announces fund-raiser 
WASJIINGTON (API -The Ameriean Hnd Cross announced its biggest wartime fund-raising nffort sincn World War II on Tuesday. It said former President Heagan will head the campaign to raise $30 million for Gulf War troops, families and victims. 
Hed Cross President Elizabeth Dole said the organization now has 114 staff members near the front line in Saudi Arabia and the numbnr soon will increase to 154. 
Dole, who joined the Red Cross in January after serving as sncrntary of labor. said she had made "no dneisions as to what I personally might be doing in terms of travel to the Middle East." 
Hnagan. in a television appeal shown at a news conference in Dole's office. said. "Our men and women in Desert Storm need our support. So do others in the gulf. caught in the war." 
"Members of the armed forces. their families, refugees and other victims of war are counting on the Red Cross," he said. 
Dole showed reporters a $1,000 check from President Bush that she said was the first contribution to the fund. 
"This campaign will be the biggest wartime fundraising effort the American Red Cross has undertaken since World War II, when the organization sought $50 million," she said. 
She said $20 million of the money the organization hopes to collect would go to support 
U.S. armed forces and their families, and $10 million to international relief. 
The announcement came as the head of the Iraqi Red Crescent Society, Dr. Ibrahim 
al-Nouri, appealed in Baghdad for food and medicine to feed Iraqis and ward off disease. 
Dole said she had not heard of the Red Crescent appeal but added, "Obviously the Red Cross is a humanitarian organization. We are a neutral organization. We are going to be helping victims of the war, no matter what their nationality, no matter what their race, their religion, their ideology." 
The Red Cross said later in the day that the International Committee of the Red Cross planned to send a sanitation engineer and water purification equipment to Iraq. 
The international organization said it was concerned about the shortage of drinking water in Iraq and the possibility of epidemic. 

FOR BOYS FOR GIRLS 5 GLEN LANE P.O. BOX 1771 MAMARONECK, N.Y. 10543 DUXBURY, MA. 02332 914-381-5983 617·934-6536 
STAFFING NOW FOR 
THE 1991 SUMMER SEASON 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER COUNSELORS 
WHO LOVE CHILDREN AND HAVE STRONG SKILLS AND ABILJTY TO TEACH ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: 
Archery, Arts &Crafts, Baseball, Basketball, Bicycling, computer Science, Dance, Dramatics, Field Hockey, General counselors, Guitar, Gymnastics, Lacrosse, Photography, Piano, Pioneerfng, Riding, Rocketry, Ropes course, Sailing, soccer, Softball, Support Staff, SWimming, Tennis, Tracl<, Volleyball, waterskiing, Weight Training, Windsurfing, woodworking, Yearbook. 
FULL EIGHT WEEK SEASON DROP BY FOR AN INTERVIEW: 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21ST 
FROM ll:OOAM-S:OOPM LA FORTUNE STUDENT CENTER -DOOLEY & 

Camp Vega 
Experts say ground war 
may damage 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Ex­perts say an allied ground of­fensive that sets more oilfields ablaze could release thick smoke and toxic black rain over 1,000 miles, threatening lives, polluting scarce water and damaging vital crops. 
"Like the oil slick in the (Persian) Gulf, the smoke and acid rain would have a horrific environmental effect on the whole region," said Steve Elsworth, spokesman for the Greenpeace environmental or­ganization. "But unlike the slick, the effects of the fires are far more likely to injure people than ecosystems, and we don't yet know exactly what the pol­lution cocktail contains." 
No one knows exactly what level of exposure to the smoke could lead to illness. Nor is the precise chemical composition of the cloud known. But smoke from an oil blaze certainly con­tains sulphur, causing the acid rain known to kill trees and plants over time. 
On Tuesday, Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency reported thick smoke blanket­ing towns and villages along the Iraqi border, including Qasr-E­Shirin, an Iranian town of about 20,000 people. 
For the first time, dark clouds of smoke were reported in southern Iran, including Bandar Lengeh on the Strait of Hormuz, !RNA said. 
Pentagon sources say 50 oil fires already are burning in Kuwait. How many refineries, wells and petrochemical com­plexes are ablaze in Iraq is not known. 
The Nicosia-based weekly newsletter Middle East Eco­nomic Survey said Monday that nothing can be done to fight the fires until the shooting stops. 
Quoting unidentified intelli­gence sources, it said damage and destruction inflicted on Iraqi oil installations include the Haditha K-3 crude oil pumping station, the 30,000­barrel-a-day Kirkuk refinery, 
environment 
the 95,000-barrel-a-day Daura refinery near Baghdad and the 155,000-barrel-a-day refinery, lube plant and petrochemical complex near Basra. 
Iraq deliberately set some fires to create smoke and ob­scure targets. Allied air strikes and artillery exchanges caused others. 
"One thing is certain, a ground war would leave many more fires in its wake," Peter Montague, director of the Washington-based Environ­mental Research Foundation, said in a telephone interview. 
"The effects will be around for a long while, incorporated into food chains and water supplies, not to mention in the air." 
But some oil experts say even much more smoke might do lit­tle harm. 
Peter Selwood, technical see­retary of Britain's Offshore Op­erators' Association, said erude oil burning in storage tanks or refineries would produce a lot of smoke, but oil exploding from a well under pressure contains a lot of gas and can form a mist that "burns like fuel in a carburetor." 
Even with just a few dozen fires, however, huge clouds of sulphur, nitrogen oxide and hy­drocarbons already threaten more than a million people in Iran's western Ilam province, across from the Iraqi fields. 
On Sunday, a toxic bank of black smoke dropped low and rolled aeross Ilam, choking the region as it has at least six times since Jan 28. Authorities warned people to stay indoors. 
The smoke was snaking slowly toward Bakhtaran and the Soviet border, !RNA said. 
An acrid odor permeates the province. Fog drifts overhead. Oily, sooty rain has polluted water supplies and threatens crops, it reported. 
From the Kuwait-Saudi bor­der, reporters describe gigantic columns of flame appearing above burning oilfields. Thick smoke covers the countryside. 
100 Europa Drive SuJtr 330 P.O. Box 8H}O 
Chapc:l Hill, NC l7514 1-919-968-0225 1-800-743-5556 

SUMMER INTERNSHIPS 
OPPORTIJNilY! 
Make the transition into the businc=ss world selling yellow P"'l«= advertising for your campus telephone directory or for other camptL~ directories nationwide. 
MONEY! 

Earn an average of $3,900 for the I 1-week saks period with an unlimited opportunity for a profitable summer. 
EXPERIENCE! 

Gain v-Aluable experience in sales, advenlsing, markeling and public relations. 
TRAINING! Tr.wel to Chapel Hill, NC for a five-day expell.'ie-pald sales training program. Train with 250 other coll«=ge studc=nL~ from across the country. 
Interviewing on Notre Dame campus: Friday, February 22 Career Placement Services 
~~----------------------­
Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, February 20, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Editor ...•.•................. Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor .........•..... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager •••••••••.•• Amy Eckert Sports Editor ••.••....••.•••••••••Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Editor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor .•............•..•....... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..••..•.Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Enduring, peaceful world can be attained through quiet meditation 
Dear Editor: 
In an interview in the mid­1980s, Bob Dylan said that "Politics is the work of the Devil." He also said, "Peace is only when you're reloading your rifle. Ain't no peace in this world." I think Dylan was onto some deep truths when he made these statements. 
There are some serious and dangerous misconceptions about peace that dominate the thinking of humanity today. The Notre Dame community is not exempt from these errors. As a believer in active nonviolence, I must reject the definition of peace espoused by those on our campus who support the war in the Persian Gulf. But some who oppose the war have, it seems, fallen prey to this same false definition. This letter is addressed to those on both sides of this issue who believe that peace is attainable through military or political means. 
This false peace is the peace Dylan was describing in the 1980s. The false notion of peace is that it is something attainable through the means of this world alone, through nature without grace. 
History shows us repeatedly that the peace of this world is rarely just, is usually attained and sustained through violent means, and is never enduring. There has been much talk lately about a peaceful, just "New 
· World Order." If it is merely the product of political or military action, this false peace, this deadly lie upon which most of humanity has set its hopes, will never exist. An enduring, just, peaceful world order cannot be 

DOONESBURY 
built upon limited, frail human nature or upon the ego. It can­'not be the result of war or of anti-war protest alone. Such peace is the house built upon sand that Jesus describes. It is a lie, as Dylan said, "the work of 
the Devil." 
So what is true peace? True 
peace, in the words of former 
President Dwight Eisenhower, 
"is more than mere cessation of 
armed conflict." It is more. It is 
much more than President 
Eisenhower probably ever 
dreamed. 
True peace cannot have its 
origin in military strength, in 
the United Nations, or in an 
anti-war movement. True peace 
begins within individuals. Our 
actions, the external environ­
ment that we create which then 
shapes us, everything ultimately 
begins within us and flows 
outward. There will never be 
true peace in this world unless 
it is built upon peace within: 
peace of heart, mind and soul. 
The enduring, peaceful, just 
world order, the Kingdom of 
God, cannot be built upon the 
ego, upon the means of this 
world, but upon the ultimate 
source of inner peace. 
Now here's the Good News: 
This inner peace, the "peace 
which surpasseth all under­
standing," the peace upon 
which the Kingdom of God, the 
True World Order, can be built, 
is attainable. It is attainable in 
this world, but not by the means 
of this world. The key to peace 
is so simple and obvious that 
most of humanity has missed it: 
meditation. 
In meditation, the deepest 
form of prayer, or of commu­nion with one's inner power, one passes beyond the ego, be­yond this world, into the most wonderful realm of peace, the Kingdom of God within. Swami Muktananda said, "God swells in you as you." It is upon direct realization of this ultimate fact that true peace can, and must, be built. 
Prayer and action are not two separate things. Pure actions that build the Kingdom of God, prophetic denunciations of the actions and lies of men like Saddam Hussein and George Bush, and most importantly, love for every living being in the cosmos, all flow from medita­tion. Political statements and protests are effective only if they are the product of grace flowing from the Divine Spirit within. True prophets realize it is not their egos which are speaking and acting, but God speaking and acting through them. That is why St. Francis prays, "Lord, make me an in­strument of your peace." 
I beg everyone who reads this letter to try meditation. Just set aside twenty minutes during the day to sit quietly and silently repeat a short prayer over and over again. If you're not reli­gious, just use a word like "peace" or "love" or "joy." 
Meditation and the thoughts, words and actions which flow from it: this is the way to an enduring, peaceful, just world order. This is the way of the Kingdom of God. 
Jeffery D. Long Pangborn Hall Feb.10,1991 

SUFR should not ignore other ethnic heritages 
Dear Editor: 

In her letter regarding SUFR (The Observer, Feb. 13), Maria Santos makes the truly valid point that "college is a place designed to give students a broader view of the world." I quite agree, as I think most students on this campus do. However, it seems that the primary concern of students who are not of color concerning SUFR is not a desire to see ethnicity abolished, but rather a concern that all ethnicities will not be encouraged. 
Is SUFR for ethnic concerns, or are they for ethnic concerns that happen to be African, Asian, Hispanic and Native American? Perhaps SUFR would be more accepted by that student body if they didn't ig­nore the fact that there are also European minorities at this school. I don't think anyone could logically argue against a multi-cultural center if it were truly multi -cultural. 
A large part of the negative 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It you are scared to go to the brink, you are lost.' 
John Foster Dules 

attitude towards SUFR is more likely than not a resentment stemming from SUFR's tacit denial that every student here has an ancestral background of which they are probably proud, whether or not their skin hap­pens to be dark. No one here germinated out of a bread box. "White" is not an ethnicity, any more than "non-white" is. Just because a student is not of color doesn't mean they do not have an ethnic heritage to be proud of. 
My point is that ethnicity is much more than skin color. Perhaps SUFR would find themselves less under attack if they incorporated a more thor­ough idea of "multi-cultural" into their goals. No one should be excluded from what seems to be an ultimately noble cause. 
Dawn Plunkert Breen-Phillips Hall Feb. 13, 1991 

Viewpoint
Wenesday, Febraury 20, 1991 page 9 
Many Christians forget Jesus' teachings during Gulf War crisis 
After glaneing at the quarter in my hand and reading the words "IN GOD WE THUST," I think morn about the present war we and other countries are fighting against Iraq. 
As Christians at a Catholic University, I fnel it is vital that wn ask ourselvns where our faith in .Jesus Christ fits in with this war and war in general. Augustine told us in the fourth century that because the world is bathml in sin. we have a right to defend innocent peopln from unjust aggression under certain conditions. Thus we have the just war theory. However, most Christian denominations and just war thnorists have declared this war unjust, not because a just causn is lacking, but because of proportionality-the destruction caused would be disproportionatn to the good achinv1~d-and discrimination­too many eivilians would be killed as we arn now witness­ing. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
My question, however, is not whether this is a just war, but whether or not as Christians we can ever participate in war. Jesus had a few things to say about violence and how we should respond in conflicts. "Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who treat you badly" (Luke 6:2, 28). lie did not teaeh us to erush our enemies to rubble, and he did not teach us to pray only for ourselves in conflict, but to pray for those who are persecuting us. 
If you think I'm prooftexting or missing the context of what .Jesus said, look at the essence of the Gospels and Jesus' min­istry. I submit that .Jesus Christ never treated anyone as a means to an end. He always treated people as people, a part of the Body of Christ. He re­nounced violence ~nd never used or spoke of using people as a means to a particular end. 
Jay Landry 
Guest Columnist 
We, however, are doing the exact opposite with the Iraqis and our own service men and women in the war: using them as means to an end. In this war, we are killing Iraqis and allowing our family members and friends to be killed for a particular end which. we call peace. 
As Christians, we are hypo­critical in believing that we trust in God when it conflicts in our country and internationally. For we, as a country, are a violent nation:. we kill 1.6 mil­lion unborn human beings each year for their basics needs, but claim we are protecting their basic rights by spending 845 million dollars a day on the mil­itary before this war even be­gan; we often exeeute those who kill others; we are destroy­ing and consuming our envi­ronment, for as a nation we are five percent of the world's pop­ulation, and we use at least 25 to 30 percent of the world's re­sourees; and all our media ­television, radio, advertising, etc.-tell us to use violence to solve our problems. 
On .Jan. 31, when General Schwarzkopf was asked about Iraqi casualties, he said that the 
U.S. was "shooting, not counting ... Body count means nothing, absolutely nothing." How do we justify participation in this war as Christians? 
Inherent to our nature as human beings, we respond to eonfliets as an extension of who we are. Since we are a violent culture of Christians, we respond destructively_in con­flict. Therefore, we Christians in America should ask our­selves whether or not we trust· in God, for if we trusted in God, wouldn't we be responding to this conflict in a way that is consistent with the essence of the Gospels? If we trusted in God, wouldn't we be solving conflicts in a way which treats people as people? 
Yet, we have ereated a god of bombs and destruction, for it is on that god that we Christians are depending in this conflict with Iraq and have previously depended upon numerous times before. We are worshiping an idol of weapons and brute force, and we think that idol will lead us to peace. 
Perhaps we should think about trusting in .Jesus and the power of the cross, for it is through His trust in the Father while on the cross that we are redeemed. It is through the power of trust in His broken body on the cross that we are called to trust in God during 
-

this time of crisis. It is a call to live the Gospels nonviolently and to respond to the injustice created by Iraq, but to respond in a way that is consistent with the teachings of Jesus Christ. 


'Aerobic minorities' seek necessary changes at NO 
Dear Editor: sprinter-Americans, teach with 
l.ately, certain groups on sprinter rnnntalities in mind campus hav1~ bnen dividing (not because they mean to humanity by color and making discriminate, mind you, but demands. This has set me to simply because they cannot thinking, and after serious overcome what they are), aero­philosophieal meditation about bic mentalities are patently dis­thn traits that truly divide one criminated against. They fare 1wrson from another. I modestly worse in classes not because of propose anotlwr. more sensible inapplication or laek of intelli­division: that between long gence, but because of physio­distance/aerobically oriented logically based differences in peopiP and sprinter/ cognitive learning technique. an1wrohically oriPntml people. The heavens proclaim this as an 
Anyone who knows people of outrage. both types will rnadily attest Being a member of this too­that tlu~s1~ two groups have long-ignored minority, I hereby eomplntnly diiTNent mentalities, ring the call to arms. On behalf 
as personified in the slogans, "Wiwn the going gets tough, the sprinters get out," and "Of course it hurts-the trick is not minding that it hurts." The two types seem almost to be difTernnt species, and given the recent scientific discovery that dif1'ernnt types of people ean not truly understand one another's history, experience or mental makeup, it of course follows that these two divisions of humanity are forf)Ver to be strangers. 
This division is made with the full weight of science behind me: aerobic athletes' muscula­ture is primarily slow-twitch muscle fiber. Can anyone who knows both sprinters and long distance types pretend that thosn physiological differences arn not mirrornd in psyehologi­cal ones? 
In the United States, the aer­obically inclined are clearly in the minority. llnre, the sprinter mentality dominates and always has: here get-rieh-quiek sehernes abound as nowhere else; here we seem (in the eyes of gennration after generation of visiting Europeans} to bn ut­tr.rly incapable of taking the long view of things. After cen­turies of discrimination and in­sfmsitivity at the hands of a tyrannical majority, the aerobic mentality is rarely even given credence these days. Even worse, at Notre Dame, the Administration persists in mix­ing anrobic students with anaerobic students in classes. But sinee most professors, being of all Notre Dame aerobic men­talities, I proudly proclaim our other-ness, our desire to be seen as special an,d diffferent and separate, and I hereby de­mand a separate facility where aerobie mentalities of all gen­ders and colors can commiser­ate about their lonely (but exquisitely lonely} fate; compul­sory "Slow-twitch Awareness" courses designed to broaden the typical student's sprinter outlook and to make him or her more sensitive to the un-met needs of the aerobically inclined (these courses are to be taught, of eourse, by aerobic mentali­ties); an Aerobic Studies Program (which only will make Notre Dame a true university}; and an anti-aerobic harassment policy to prevent the "long run" slurs and the surly sprinter looks that I and others have had to endure. 
Any opposition to my pro­posals will simply prove my point: the majority at Notre Dame are set in their fast­twitch ways and have no desire to be shown their own deep­seated discriminatory tenden­cies. Understand, that the aer­obic minority does not blame you; we understand that you are products of your cultural heritage. We wish solely to edu­cate you, to expand your hori­zons. 
Michael Brooks Brownson Hall 
Feb.13,1991 

The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. 
U.S. stands for hypocrisy and injustice 
Dear Editor: is blatantly false. The World War II, very little has 
Much has been said (though it Americans carne here to settle been done to correct the injus­has been lost amidst the War in this land, killed off many na­tices of 400 years of oppression the GulO about the current sit­tives, settled into Mexico and for the African Americans, the uation in the Soviet Union and eventually took it over (with the Spanish imperialism of the New its problems in the Baltic re­help of Spanish-surnamed pen­World, the theft of Mexiean publics-Lithuania, Estonia and dejos). justifying it with the lands, and exploitation of Latin Armenia-with most of the at­doctrine of Manifest Destiny. America. Japanese Americans tention centering on Lithuania. Let's change the way these im­were recompensed with a sub­Since Lithuania is seeking se­ages are conveyed in the stantial amount of money, cession from the Union of Soviet movies, in literature and in his­whereas the aforementioned Socialist Republics, there has tory. groups suffering the largest been a lot of speculation on amount of oppression in the whether the United States, as a I find it difficult to pledge U.S. have yet to receive any­"champion of freedom and support and allegiance to a flag thing but lip service. democracy" in the world will do that stands for injustice, not With the doctrine of affirma­anything (Though I doubt we freedom; a flag that represents tive action, and specially ear­will, because we fear the hypocrisy, not democracy. We marked funds for these people, U.S.S.R.}. However, before are not "under God." We are European Americans "bitch" anybody is quick to condemn not the chosen land. Liberty about injustice. "Two wrongs Soviet action in response to this and justice for all do not exist. I don't make a right," they say. movement, with which Mikhail don't want to hear anymore of However, unless you have expe­Gorbachev claims no affiliation, that "love it or leave it crap" of rienced as much oppression as let us not forget our history the Vietnam era, for I know no our ancestors and many of us lessons. government is perfect. In my today; and unless you have had 
mother land-Mexico-a lot of an extremely inequitable 
Though these republics were corruption exists, but Mexico "equality of opportunity" that forced into being a part of the does not claim that its flag our country so proudly pro­-­Soviet Union well before the re­represents freedom. Our pledge claims; and unless you have cent surge of "democracy" of allegiance should read: been stripped of your culture, there, territories in the United "I pledge allegiance and sup­your history, your language; States were also "forced in" port to the flag of the U.S. of then and only then do you have from other people. So if we are America and to the republic for the right to complain. to say that the Soviet Union which it stands, one nation Let us wait another 400 years should grant independence to divided, contradicting God, with to assess equality of opportu­these republics, to correct the hypocrisy and injustice nity, and should conditions be­
-

injustices of the past, then we throughout." come more equitable, then and should correct the injustices Finally, I would like to point only then will I be more recep­done onto the Native Americans out that while I do agree that tive to discontinuing affirmative and the Mexicans for taking other ethnic groups have been action programs and support their lands. persecuted here throughout for traditionally underrep­As a starting point, I hate the history-Irish Americans, Arab resented groups in higher edu­
-

J 
way Hollywood and history Americans, Jews, and Japanese cation and the work force. portray these people. The Amerieans, ete.-with the latter American Indians are always group suffering the humiliation Manuel A. Espino the bad guys, and the people at and inconvenience of being sent Off-Campus the Alamo were martyrs. This to relocation camps during Feb.11,1991 

r-----------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent 
page 10 Wednesday, February 20, 1991 
Chilean finds ND • •
ImpreSSIVe 
BY KELLEY TUTHILL poverty institute)." 
News Editor The idea of a poverty institute is particularly important to Orrego because he believes his 
For Claudio Orrego, commu­university has a debt to pay to 
nication is the key to achieving the poor of Chile. "During the the goals he has set for himself dictatorship, the Church offered and his university. A week at the highest sign of defense for 
Notre Dame has allowed this human rights, while mylaw student for Catholic university gave the lowest." 
University of Chile an opportu­nity to gain new ideas from students and faculty here. 'Orrego is impressed with 
Orrego served as student 
the institutes at Notre 
-
body president of his university in 1990 and continues to serve Dame. "I am amazed at as a student leader. He was in­the huge resources vited to Notre Dame by the 
here," he says.' 

Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Center for Civil and Human Orrego is impressed with the Rights and Student institutes at Notre Dame. "I am Government. amazed at the huge resources 
During the past week, he has here," he says. The various given a lecture at the Law centers, such as the Center for School and the Student Senate, Social Concern, represent the participated in class discus­fact that the university is not sions and talked with numerous just here to give technical people on campus. knowledge, but to further 
Discussions with the staff of Christian values, Orrego says. the Center for Social Concerns Orrego, too, would like to has been beneficial to Orrego further Christian values because one of his projects in through increased communica­Chile is to set up an Institute of tion between the Catholic uni­Poverty at his university. versities in Latin America. Like 
Unlike students in America, Notre Dame and the formation in Chile students do not live on of the National Association of campus, but rather live with Students at Catholic Colleges 
schools are different, Orrego Church, says Orrego. human rights, and issues oftheir families or in apartments. and Universities (NASCCU), believes that communication is sexuality.
Orrego, however, has lived in students at Catholic University important as there are common "The young people want to an impoverished area of of Chile have also organized a 
interests between students in 'While many students in know that reasons behind the
Santiago so he can learn more conference of Catholic college the United States and in Chile. Latin America do not laws of the Church," Orregoabout the plight of the poor. students in Latin America. 
A problem that Orrego has says. "We want the Church to
His ability to have direct He would also like to see have a good image of the 
with Notre Dame is that he sees improve and become closer tocommunication with the disad­more' exchange between 
the students as being discon­United States, visits and young people. We need more
vantaged has spurred his belief Catholic college students in nected with the rest of the dialogue."
in the concept of an Institute Latin America and North exchanges...can have a
world. In Chile, his campus is in
for Poverty. Orrego and some America. "We can build bridges the middle of a large city and positive effect. ...' On Saturday, Orrego will-classmates have been working between the rich world and the "the students are more con­leave Notre Dame and travel toon a report about such an insti­poor," Orrego says. 
nected with society." the University of California attute for his school's adminis­While many students in Latin Political issues are important A group of students are Berkeley for more discussiontration. America do not have a good to students in Chile in their ev­working on a document to be with American students andIronically, Orrego has been image of the United States, vis­eryday lives, Orrego says. presented at the 1992 meeting faculty. The information Orrego
working with Father Don its and exchanges such as 
"Political interest is higher in of Latin American bishops. The gathers from his trip toMcNeill, director of Notre Orrego's can have a positive ef­Chile." young people want to be heard America should be helpful as
Dame's Center for Social fect, he says. He hopes that 
Like Notre Dame students, on matters of their religion, he he tries to convince his schoolConcerns, who is spending the American college student's however, students at Catholic explains. and peers of the importance ofsemester with Holy Cross views of Latin America will University are interested in Students at his university are the goals he has set for himselfworkers in Chile. "He is so en­change as well. 
sports and art. They, too, have concerned with the social and the Catholic University ofthusiastic about our idea (for a While students at the two concerns about the Catholic aspect of their faith, including Chile. 
For those with short attention spans 
Before you read too far, I look directly at the punchline or A recent poll conducted by the 2) Why is"On the Campus" should explain a few things. you may be blinded. Keep your Association for Boring People printed on everything related to I've got a file on computer disk hands and arms inside the car lan Mitchell Who Keep Track of These the bookstore? called "column ideas" where I at all times. This column is sold Things (AfBPWKToTT, pro­a) It is a satanic ana­type things that seem like they by weight, not by volume; some Lion Taming nounced "AfBPWKToTT") sta­gram for "Net up mo' have a remote opportunity of settling may have occurred tistically demonstrates that well cash." being funny. When I start a during. shipping and handling. over sixty-five percent of the b) It is the only famous 
this major for you? 

week's column, I go to this file SURGEON GENERA~S population is pretty dimwitted, quote of Gerry Faust. 
Math: No. God no. Don't
first and look for ideas (hence WARNING: Do not attempt to another twelve percent "Where's the Hammes 
even think it. 

the name "column ideas"). If eat this newspaper. downright dull and an addi­Notre Dame nothing there strikes me as tional seven percent have IQ's Bookstore?" he was
One of the worst jokes ever
particularly humorous, I just First, we present a few one­roughly equal to their shoe size, asked. "Why, I believe 
told (I didn't make this one up):
start typing until I get a good liners/column themes that putting them on a mental par it's," Faust replied, "on 
Guy#1: "I guess I'll go over to
idea or I get desperate enough never quite made it: with say, dental floss. the campus." 
the store and get me some
to use an idea that didn't seem In hopes of rescuing c) What, you don't 
snoo."

--so funny before, when deadline The Hammes Notre Dame millions (or rather the five of know? Then I'm not 
Guy#2: "Snoo? What's snoo?" 
was hours, not minutes, away. Bookstore ("On the Campus"): you who are still reading this genoa tell you. 
Guy#1: "Nothing -what's
Sometimes in honing a col­your home for reasonably­stuff) from hopeless lives of 
new with you?" 

umn to razor-sharp wit, I cut priced quality merchandise. menial drudgery as semi-pro­3) Care for a mint? out parts that don't quite fit, but But seriously folks ... fessional lint inspectors,, or a) Yes, thank you.
Things you hear on an air­
if I really liked those bits, I save Report titles: is the colon perhaps, Vice President of the b) No thanks.
plane: "Ladies and gentlemen,
them back in "column ideas." overused? United States, "Lion Taming"
the captain has turned on the
Last weekend was JPW (so I Greeting people whose names presents this quiz: 4) After enjoying a particu­
annoying bonging noise, which 
-didn't have a lot of free time), you can't remember: "Hey -larly delicious candlelight
will now sound periodically
and "Lion Taming" will be end­how's it going?" 1) How much wood would a repast at the dining hall, where
throughout the flight. Please
ing soon, so I thought, hey, why Student Government. That's woodchuck chuck if a wood­delicious food is served in at­
continue to fight over posses­
not just print the best odds and the joke, right there. chuck could chuck wood? tractive surroundings, it is ap­
sion of the armrests with the
ends in "column ideas?" (After DuLac in the new, shorter a) 5.7 cords. propriate to:
passenger in the adjoining
all, it'd save me some typing.) form for the '90s: "NO." b) It's a rhetorical a) Send your compli 
seat."

First, a few warnings. Do not question, not ments to the chef 

attempt to make sense out of Now, some slightly longer requiring an answer. b) Write a thank you to
Lastly, here's a column which 
this column as a coherent comedy bits that didn't lead to c) Kill all wood chucks. the Director of Food 
almost was, but I just ran out
whole: it won't work. This is a column on their own: Tongue twisters are Services
of steam after four questions
proto-comedy we're dealing stupid. c) Pinch yourself and 
and never got back to it: 
with here: remember, do not Here's a guide to majors. Is wake up. 


Wednesday, February 20, 1991 
Anderson's 33 lead Tech to win over Cavs 
CHARLOTTESVILLE (AP) -Knnny Andnrson scored 20 of his 33 points in the second half Tuesday night and Georgia Tech held off a Virginia rally for a 73-6(} victory ovnr the 20th­ranked Cavaliers. 
Matt Geiger added 16 points and Jon Barry 11 as the Yellow Jackets (15-9 overall, 6-6 Atlantic Coast Conference) beat Virginia for just the second time in 13 games at University I Jail. 
Kenny Turner scored 22 points and Bryant Stith added 21 for Virginia (19-8, 6-6). The Cavaliers now have lost three consncutivn games to Georgia Tech, including a 78-51 deci­sion Jan. 19 at Atlanta, Virginia's worst loss of the snason. 
Anderson's short basnline jumper gavn the Yellow Jackets a 19-18 edgn and started an 11­5 run that put Georgia Tech up 28-23 at halftime. Anderson had fivn points during the surge. 
lie added 12 more as Georgia Tnch broke from a 37-34 lead with 15:05 remaining to a 54­40 advantage at the 9:03 mark. 
Stith scored the next five 
points as Virginia cut it to 56-45 
before Georgia Tech's Malcolm 
Mackey was assessed a 
technical foul for shoving 
Turner after fouling the Virginia 
forward. 
Aftnr Turner made both free 
throws, Stith made both techni­
cal foul shots. Virginia added 
baskets by John Crotty and 
Turner to cut the deficit to 56­
53 with 4:20 remaining. 
But Anderson had four points 
as Georgia Tech scored 11 of 
page 11The Observer 

Hall of Famer Palmer to attempt comeback 
BALTIMORE (AP) -Jim Palmer's bid to return the ma­jor leagues was given a boost Tuesday when his agent said the Baltimore Orioles indicated that they would invite the 45-year-old Hall of Farner to spring training. 
"The Orioles have Jet us know they're interested in inviting Jim," Ron Shapiro, Palmer's agent, said Tuesday. "At this point we're talking about the terms of the invitation." 
Palmer would be invited to join his former team as a non­roster player, and Shapiro said early negotiations primarily centered around Palmer's salary if he should make the team. Shapiro categorized the negotiations as being in the "preliminary" stage. 
He said he hoped things would be finalized by the time the team's pitchers and catch­ers report to camp in 
Sarasota, Fla. on Thursday. 

Palmer was not available for 
Bryant Stith, shown here against Notre Dame, scored 21 Tuesday night, 
comment. Shapiro said the 
but Georgia Tech still managed to defeat Virginia, 73-60. 
pitcher spent much of Tuesday packing and traveling fromthe next 14 for a 67-56 lead at gled more against Niagara {7­Miami to Baltimore.
the 1:16 mark. 19} than in recent victories 
The Orioles had no an­
over Oklahoma, Pittsburgh and 
nouncement by early Tuesday Seton Hall 76, Niagara 61 Georgetown. The Purple Eagles evening and general manager(AP}-Terry De here scored Jed 3Q-22 with 7:10 left in the Roland Hemond did not return19 of his 22 points in the first half before Oliver Taylor 
phone calls from The
second half, when No. 24 Seton hit a pair of 3-pointers to Hall finally shook off trigger a run that put Seton Associated Press. 
Palmer won 268 games dur­ing his 19-year career with the Orioles and was inducted into baseball's Hall of Fame last summer. lie won three Cy Young awards, in 1973, '75 and '76. 
But he always resented the way his career ended -the Orioles simply let him go early in the 1984 season -and a few months ago Palmer began working himself back in shape. Claiming he had revised his delivery to maximize his potential, Palmer said his fastball had been clocked above 85 mph. 
Last week the Orioles sent pitching coach Dick Bosman to Miami to watch Palmer throw batting practice. Bosman was not alone, as other scouts also decided to see whether Palmer still had the right stuff. 
"His velocity was slightly be­low average and he had a pretty decent curveball," Bosman said. "Don't ask me if he can get big-league hitters out, because I don't know." 
The Orioles may soon find out. 
Since retiring from baseball Palmer has worked as a broadcaster for the Orioles, ABC-TV and ESPN. 

Hall ahead 36-34 at the half. 
Niagara had a couple of chances to tie the game early in the second half, and was still within 44-40 with 14:39 to play after a layup by Brian Clifford, who scored 24 points. 
•
American Heart &"2 Association V 
_.. 

determined Niagara and defeated the Purple Eagles 76­61 Tuesday night. 
The victory was the fourth in a row for Seton Hall (17 -7) and the first in that stretch that wasn't against a Top 25 team. 
However, the Pirates strug-
The Observer accepts classlfleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classified& Is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. Including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
.... 

I 
FOUND: A necklace on 16 Feb in CLUB 23 Herbie: I NEED A RIDE TO MN FOR the snow near P.E. Call x4530. FOR SALE Yes, I tested positive too. But this SPRING BREAK. I WILL HELP 
NOTICES Daily Specials. New addition: disease that is a part of me is a part PAY GAS AND TOLLS. PLEASE 'IBM COMPATABLE' The Coffee House of you too, just like our child. I will CALL JENNIE X4831 TYPING AVAILABLE LOST: BROWN PAIR OF NICE 1990 EPSON COMPUTER , Bring your books and come never destroy It-Monica 287-4082 GLOVES WITH LEATHER PRINTER, TABLE & STAND study, or just come socialize. JESTER 
STRIPES. PLEASE CALL #1654. $1750 OR PRICED BY ITEM Open daily 4pm-3am. Attention: is playing at Club 23 again Ill NY TIMES, used and new books CALL MARK 272-5167 1991 BENGAL BOUTS Sat., Feb. 23 Pandora's Books 233-2342 CLUB 23 PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE "No way, DudeI" corner of ND ave. & Howard "2 1 -way airline tickets to San (Sandy, Bill, Alan, Howie, Sean, Mo, "Yes way, infidel."
[=WANTED 
1 0·5:30 everyday Francisco, Feb. 27. $100 Daily Specials. New addition: John, and Larissa) 
ACCENT ON FUN I Coed, 684-7203." The Coffee House WHYaskWHY? Summer Programs in London sleepaway camp in Massachusetts Bring your books and come IMPORTANT pre-tournament ??? (May 22-June 21) or Rome seeks enthusiastic staff: WSI, INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. study, or just come socialize. meeting: Friday, Feb 22@ 6pm­"GOOD QUESTION I" (June 16-July 15). Courses in lifeguard, tennis, arts & crafts, all Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Open daily 4pm-3am. JACC Boxing room ? ? ? art, business, education, history, land & water sports, fitness, for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289·1993. LIVE @ McCORMICK'S Italian, and sociology. gymnastics, piano/play for shows, Office near campus. CLUB 23 ??s or problems, call me. FRI. 10 PM Meeting Feb. 20, 6:30 pm at drama, judo, dance, archery, Until then, SELL SHIRTSIII Carroll Hall (SMC). Students, photography, compu1ers, model 112 of round trip TIX to Daily Specials. New addition: Thanks· Amy BRIDGET-teachers, pizza, passport photos rocketry, guitar, radio. video, La Guardia Airport The Coffee House 01her than the obvious, what available. Info: call Prof. Black yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, Leaves Mar 9 Sat from SB Bring your books and come FREE PIZZA DELIVERED TO A else did you lose Saturday 284-4460 (off.) or woodwork, RN. @12:25pm study, or just come socialize. PERSON IN ANY ROOM 215 OF night? 272-3726 (home). 6123-8126. CAMP EMERSON, 5 Call X1346 Annie Open daily 4pm-3am. ANY ND/SMC DORM. CALL Look around, carefully ... 
Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY GINA'S PIZZA 271-0200. SPRING BREAKIII $136.00 10707. 800-955-CAMP. 1-Way air ticket, SB-Tampa, 10 Mar. CLUB 23 VAL, Iii' LAURA, AMY, LAURA, ROUND TRIP ANYWHERE 7 am. $85. Call272-7503. FRITZ KLEIN · You are the ulitimate and BRIDGET. (and KIRBY, our GREYHOUND GOES. Daily Specials. New addition: in masculinity. I want your ever· so silent co-conspirator) ... RESTRICTIONS APPLY 287-6541 EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK The Coffee House -responding body I Please end my Today's the Inquisition, just 
TICKETS
READING BOOKS AT HOME. Bring your books and come passionate torture by fulfilling my keep in mind-we had a GREAT CANCUN CALL 1·615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. study, or just come socialize. every fantasy. Yours willingly and time and it won't make SPRING BREAK Open daily 4pm-3am. openly any difference in the scheme of life I I need a ride to Philly or Wilmington, BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING " a lustful admirer" Besides, we'll be in 
$359.00 DE area for spring break. Will BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING '''EXPO ROMA"' Cancun in two and a half LAST CHANCE share expenses. Amy x4244 BENGAL BOUTS ARE COMING '"EXPO ROMA"' Photography for Formals-Halls· weeks... Mike 277-0253 '"EXPO ROMA"' Dances-ROTC. Call IHS 
Sun. Feb. 24, 1991 12:30pm This week at Architecture Building. Photography at 234-8539. OINKI You're next... ..... . 
7:30pm Tired of the protesters? Want to FOR RENT I need a ride to D.C.Nirginia for FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY show real support for our troops? Wed. Feb. 27, 1991 7:30pm Easler Break. Dana x2697. You will CAlLING VANESSA 272-9305. Valentines Call 289-1321, leave your name & GRAD. WEEKEND enjoy my company. number. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Fri. Mar. 1, 1991 8:00pm " Spring Break Money •• "Bubbles" R.: 
219-291-7153. SPRING BREAK SPECIAL Notre Dame Fed Credit Union Quote of the week: Show your support and buy tickets SAVE SAVE SAVEll No Co-Signer Necessary "It's better to burp and taste it than 
ILOST/FOUND I 
3 Bedroom Homes. from the student boxers Ill CANCUN FROM $349 A WEEK OF "See Our Ad •• to tart and waste it." Walk to campus. FUN AND SUNil Isn't she charming? 232-3616 SUN SPLASH TOURS Needed: Ride to Atlan1a for 
LOST · ROYAL BLUE/GOLD FOR SALE: rd trp tkt, Kzoo,MI.to 1-800-426-7710. break. Please call Tressy a1 Happy belated birthday Colleen WATERMAN FOUNTAIN PEN IN Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Newark,NJ-Ieave 3/S,return 3/17, 2755. Lynn. Don't let the turkeys get you VICINITY OF ARCHITECTURE Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms must be female, VERY CHEAP I ATTENTION ALL CREW TEAM down I BLDG./OLD COLLEGE. for x4859 MEMBERS (past and present): Only BALLROOM DANCE CLUB Love me, SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD. Graduation weekend. Located at 13 more days until John O'Brien's 239-6546. Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart 21st birthday! See you in Orlando. tonight only 8pm Rich, 
(12 miles from South Bend) Cheer upllllllife's not so blld.
f. PERSONALS 
Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 Need ride to NJ. THEODORE'S Love, me LOST: deposit per room. Send letter with Sprg brk. 
MY CLOTHES. LAST SEEN IN deposit to 3011 CLUB 23 will pay$$$. BALLROOM DANCE CLUB Duane, A WASH. HALL DRYER. Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, Kevin x4043 Good luck in the play this weekend, INCLUDES SHIRTS, RUGBY IN 46514. Daily Specials. New addition: DANCE-A-THON we know you will break a leg with SWEATS, AND PANTS. The Coffee House I loved the rose I I've searched far that kiss II 
I NEED MY CLQTHES BACK. FREEDOM I Rent 1he best houses. Bring your books and come and wide but how will I know when UP MALL '"""Have fun""" $$$REWARD OFFERED$$$ Prime locations. 233-study, or just come socialize. I've found you? CC Love, X-1252 9947. Open daily 4pm-3am. By the way, it's PWI SAT. FEB 23 All of us Knott Angels 
-----. --.--·-,-----------------------.~----·~------­
Scoreboard
page 12 Wednesday, February 20, 1991 
NBA STANDINGS 
NBA BOXES 

I 
WASHINGTON (113) 

B. King 12-26 3-3 29, Ha.Grant 7-12 4-6 1B, Ellison 6-7 2-2 14, English 5-11 7-B 18, Eackles 15-26 2-3 32, Jones 0-0 0-0 0, J.Williams 1-2 0-0 2, Irvin 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 46-85 1B-22 113. CHICAGO (118) 
Pippen 7-16 2-416, Ho.Grant 3-10 0-0 6, Cartwright 5-1 0 2-4 12, Paxson 4-7 0-0 8, Jordan 15-27 10-10 40, S.King 3-7 2-4 B, Armstrong 3-B 4-4 11, Levingston 3-5 0-0 6, Perdue 1-1 0-0 2, Hodges 3-7 2-2 9. Totals 47-9B 22-2B tt8. Washington 20 24 34 35-113 Chicago 25 27 34 32-11B 
3-Point goals-Washington 3-6 (B.King 2-4, English 1-1, Ha.Grant 0-1), Chicago 2-6 (Arm­strong 1-1, Hodges 1-3, Paxson 0-1, Jordan 0-1 ). Fouled out-Ha.Grant. Rebounds-Washington 40 (Ellison 12), Chicago 60 (Pippen 13). Assists­Washington 33 (English 11 ), Chicago 26 (Pippen B). Total fouls-Washington 23, Chicago 21. Techn1cals-Jordan, Washington coach Unseld. Flagrant foui-Ha.Grant. A-17,894. 
MIAMI(90) 

Long 2-4 0-0 4, Thompson 3-6 0-0 6. Se1kaly 9­121-219, Douglas 4-111-3 9, Rice 7-14 2-21B, Edwards 1-2 4-4 6, Burton 6-9 4-4 16, Kessler 2-5 0-0 4, Coles 1-B 2-2 4, Dav1s 1-t 0-2 2, Askins 1-3 0-0 2, Ogg 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 37-75 14-19 90. MILWAUKEE (116) 
Grayer 4-11 3-3 11, Roberts 2-6 0-1 4, Schayes 7-9 4-51B, Humphries 7-151-217, Robertson B­11 4-6 21, Ellis 6-12 3-417, Sikma 6-10 2-315, Conner 2-5 3-4 7, Lohaus 3-6 0-0 6, Kornet 0-3 0-0 0, Henson 0-3 0-0 0. Totals 45-91 20-2B 116. Miami 19 22 22 27-90 Milwaukee 25 32 25 34-116 
3-Po"lnt goals-Miami 2-3 (Rice 2-3), Milwaukee 6-10 (Ellis 2-2, Humphries 2-3, Robertson 1-1, Sikma 1-1, Lohaus 0-1, Kornet 0-1, Henson 0-1 ). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Miami 55 (Seikaly 7), Milwaukee 42 (Schayes 6). Assists-Miami 27 (Ask1ns 6), Milwaukee 36 (Humphnes 1 0). Total fouls-Miami 22, Milwaukee 19. A-15,587. 
INDIANA (115) 

Thompson 2-3 0-0 4, Person 13-23 3-4 30, Dreiling 2-4 0-0 4, M.Williams 2-5 0-0 4, Miller 9-17 10-1 a29, Fleming 2-5 3-4 7, Schrempf 2-5 2-2 6, Sanders 4-7 0-0 B. Smits 7-15 3-3 17, Wittman 1-2 o-o 2, K.Williams 2--3 0-0 4. Totals 46-B9 21-23 115. CHARLOTTE (102) 
Newman 7-13 2-2 16, Reid 3-7 2-2 B. Gminski 8­11 3-419, Chapman 4-12 6-B15, Gill7-17 2-2 16, Bogues 2-6 0-0 4, Tripucka 3-B 5-5 11, Curry 0-0 
NCAA MEN'S BOXES 
OKLAHOMA ST. (76) 

Potter 6-B 2-2 17, Pittman 3-7 1-6 7, Houston B­16 6-1 0 22, Alexander 2-6 4-4 B, Sutton 1-2 6-9 B. Williams 5-6 2-2 12, Hatcher 0-0 0-0 0, Sahlstrom 1-1 0-0 2, Burbank 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 26-46 21-33 76. KANSAS ST. (65) 
Amerson 1-B 1-4 3, Howard 1-2 0-0 2, Rett1ger 3­6 1-2 7, Wires 5-14 2-4 12, Derouillere B-16 0-0 17, Brittian 6-9 4-7 16, Fritz 2-4 0-0 4, King 0-4 0-0 0, Zeigler 2-4 0-0 4, Shadd 0-0 0-0 0, Sams 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 2B-67 8'17 65. 
Halftime-Oklahoma St. 30, Kansas St. 29. 3­point goals-Qklahoma St. 3-6 (Potter 3-5, Sutton 0-1 ). Kansas St. 1-12 (Derouillere 1-4, Amerson 0­2, W1res 0-2, Zeigler 0-2, Fritz 0-2). Fouled out-Amerson. Rebounds-Oklahoma St. 41 (Houston, Pittman 18), Kansas St. 39 (Amerson 8). Assists-Qklahoma St. 19 (Sutton 6), Kansas St. 13 (Wires 5). Total fouls-Oklahoma St. 15, Kansas St. 26. A-1 O,B66. 
302 E. M~;ket -"The Old Coppes House" Nappanee, Indiana
. . : 

Bed & Breakfast Only 35 min. from Campus 
. .. 

i!! PREsENTs lHE TRe Go EscO 
z 
• • THE RISE AND FALL OF A SMALLIll FORTUNE COOKIE fACTORY WED., FEB. 27-SAT., MARcH 2 8:10PM SUN., MARCH 3 3:10 PM 
:::::. ==::~~~:,:A:.~, CWzen 
L-discounts available, Wed, Thurs. and Sun.
s;;i BMLaty tteicrCkaertsd at Lafortune Student Center 
.._. or at the door. 
0 5 
II. 
Sponsored by Art Midwest members and friends in partncrshtp with the Na­tional Endowment for the 

4-4 4, Lackner 0-3 3-6 3, Gattison 2-5 2-2 6. Totals 36-B2 29-35 1 02. lndtana 26 33 26 30-115 Charlotte 34 20 20 26-102 
3-Point goals-Indiana 2-6 (Person 1-3, M1ller 1­3), Charlotte 1-5 (Chapman 1-2, Newman 0-1, Gill 0-1, Tnpucka 0-1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Indiana 46 (Person 7), Charlotte 51 (Reid 1 0). Assists-Indiana 36 (Miller B); Charlotte 27 (Gill11). Total fouls-Indiana 2B, Charlotte 21. Technicals-Newman, Smits. Flagrant fouls-Gattison. A-23,901. 
SEATTLE (104) 

McKey 7-18 3-417, Kemp 4-9 3-411, Cage B-10 1-3 17, Payton 3-71-2 7, Threatt 4-11 2-3 10, Polynice 3-4 2-5 8, P1erce 7-10 3-3 18, Johnson 5­16 4-4 14, McMillan 1-1 0-0 2, Barros 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 42-B6 19-2B 1 04 PHILADELPHIA (107) 
Barkley 6-19 7-1719, Gilliam 4-10 3-411, Mahorn 4-9 5-7 13, Green 6-B 0-0 12, Hawkins 7­10 7-9 24, Anderson 7-15 3-31B, Turner 2-B 0-0 4, Oliver 2-5 2-2 6, Bol 0-1 0-0 0, Williams 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 3B-B5 27-42 107. Seattle 30 20 26 21 7-1 04 Philadelphia 37 21 1B 21 10-107 
3-Poinl goals-Seattle t-5 (Pierce 1-1, Threatt 0­2, Johnson 0-2), Philadelphia 4-B (Hawkins 3-4. Anderson 1-1, Mahorn 0-1. Barkley 0-1 ). Fouled out-Kemp. Rebounds-Seattle 60 (Kemp 14), Philadelphia 55 (Barkley 13). Assists-Seattle 29 (Payton 7), Philadelphia 31 (Barkley 9). Total fouls-Seattle 28, Ph1ladelph1a 26. Techmcals-Seattle illegal defense, Philadelphia Illegal defense, Barkley. A-15,24B. 
BOSTON (105) 

B1rd 5-23 0-0 11, Gamble 9-17 2-2 20, Parish B­14 5-7 21, Lewis B-22 7-7 23, Shaw 9-18 3-3 21, Pinckney 2-2 3-4 7, Kleine 0-1 2-2 2, Brown 0-1 0­0 o. Totals 41-98 22-25105. PHOENIX (109) 
Chambers 3-16 B-B 14, McDaniel B-24 6-8 22, West 2-6 0-2 4, Hornacek 9-16 1-2 19, Johnson 8­14 9-11 25, Majerle 7-17 9-10 23, Lang 0-1 2-2 2, Rambis 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 37-94 35-43 109. Boston 32 20 30 23-105 Phoenix 27 27 26 29-109 
3-Point goals-Boston 1-7 (Bird 1-6, Shaw 0-1), Phoenix 0-3 (Hornacek 0-1, Chambers 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Boston 58 (Parish 20), Phoenix 67 (McDaniel. West 12). Assists-Boston 17 (Shaw 1 0), Phoemx 20 (Johnson 13). Total fouls-Boston 27, Phoenix 22. A-14,4B7. 
NIAGARA (61) 

Brown 4-91-310;Ciifford 11-1B1-1 24, Schiano 3-9 2-2 B. Newsom 3-9 2-2 9, Bossert 0-1 0-0 0, Moore 0-6 0-0 0, Dan1el 1-6 0-0 2, Hocevar 1-2 0-0 2, Bertram 2-2 0-0 6, M1lton 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 25-62 6-861. SETON HALL (76) 
Winchester 5-8 0-0 10. Karmshovas 1-7 0-0 3, Avent 3-4 6-6 12, Taylor 5-6 2-215, Dehere B-13 2-2 22, Walker 4-6 1-1 9, Caver 0-2 0-0 0, Barnea 0-1 2-2 2, Crist 1-1 0-0 3, Davis 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 27-4B13-13 76. 
Halftime-Seton Hall 36, Niagara 34. 3-point goals-Niagara 5-15 (Bertram 2-2, Clifford 1-1, Brown 1-2. Newsom 1-3. Schiano 0-1. Moore 0-3, Daniel 0-3), Seton Hall9-17 (Dehere 4-6, Taylor 3­3, Cristt-1, Karmshovas 1-5, Caver 0-1, Barnea 0­1). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-N1agara 31 (Clifford 10), Seton Hall29 (Avent 10). Assists-Niagara 15 (Newsom 7), Seton Hall 22 (Winchester 6). Total touts-Niagara 15, Seton Hall 14. A-3,200. 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25 
1. 
Virginia (24-1) did not play. 

2. 
Penn State (23-1) did not play. 

3. 
Georg1a (22-2) did not play. 

4. 
Tennessee (21-4) did not play. 

5. 
Auburn (22-3) did not play. 

6. 
Purdue (21-2) did not play. 


7. 
North Carolina State (21-4 ) did not play. 

8. 
Western Kentucky (22-1) did not play. 

9. 
Arkansas (22-3) beat Southern Methodist 77-66. 1a. Washington (19-3) did not play. 


11. 
Stanford (19-4) did not play. 

12. 
LSU (20-5) did not play. 

13. 
Rutgers (20-3) did not play. 

14. 
Connecticut (21-3) did not play. 

15. 
Texas (17-6) did not play. 

16. 
Mississippi (1B-6) did not play. 


17. 
UNLV (20-5) did not play. 1B. Northwestern (17-6) beat Illinois 91-82. 


19. 
Providence (20-4) did not play. 


20. 
Stephen F. Austin (20-3) beat Louisiana Tech 77-74. 

21. 
Iowa (15-7) did not play 


22. 
Notre Dame (19·5) beat St. Louis 87-47. 

23. 
Long Beach State ( 15-7) vs. Hawai1. 

24. 
Clemson (17-B) did not play. 


25. 
Oklahoma State (21-4) did not play. 


NO-ST. LOUIS BOX 
SAINT LOUIS (47) 

Luechtefeld 2-91-2 5, Purvis 4-6 7-1215, Frank 1-2 3-4 5. Klaves 0-5 6-6 6, Krzyzewski 0-5 0-0 0, Burdge 3-6 0-0 6, Lombardo 2-2 4-4 B. Winfield 1­2 0-0 2. Totals 13-37 21-2B 47 . NOTRE DAME (B7) 
Alexander 0-3 0-0 0, Davis 9-11 2-2 20, Nowlin 6-12 2-3 14, Rob1nson 11-22 0-0 22, Washington 7-14 0-014, Knapp 4-12 3-411, Leary 0-1 0-0 0, Liebscher 0-4 2-2 2, Orlosky 2-9 0-0 4. Totals 39­BB 9-11 87 
Halftime-Notre Dame 42 Saint LOUIS 19. 3-point goals-Saint Louis 0-4 (Luechtefeld 0-1, Klaves 0­1 , Krzyzeswki 0-1, Burdge 0-1 ) , Notre Dame 0-9 (Washington 0-3, L1ebscher 0-3, Orlosky 0-3). Rebounds-Saint Louis 30 (Purv~s 6), Notre Dame 50 (Davis B). Assists-Saint Louis 2 (Purvis, Burdge 1 ), Notre Dame 25 (RObinson 9). Fouled out-Nowlin. Total fouls-Saint Louis 13, Notre Dame 23. Turnovers-Saint Louis 37, Notre Dame 17. A-1,36B. 
TRANSACTIONS 

BASEBALL American League BALTIMORE ORIOLEs-Agreed to terms with Brady Anderson, outfielder, on a one-year contract. CLEVELAND INDIAN5-Agreed to terms with Tom Candiott1, pitcher, on a one-year contract. KANSAS CITY ROYAL5-Agreed to terms with Danny Tartabull, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
MILWAUKEE BREWERs-Agreed to terms With Mark Knudson, pitcher, on a one-year contract, lnv1ted Willie Randolph, second baseman, to spring tra1mng as a non-roster player. National League 
CINCINNATI RED5-Agreed to terms with Jose Rijo, pitcher, on a three-year contract. Signed K1p Gross, pitcher, to a one-year contract. 
NEW YORK MET5-Agreed to terms with Wally Whitehurst, pitcher, on a one-year contract. BASKETBALL National Basketball Association 
NBA-suspended Frank Bnckowsk1, Milwaukee Bucks forward, for one game and fined him $7,500 and fined Greg Kite, Orlando Magic center, $5,000 for fighting in a game Feb. 17. 
PHOENIX SUN$-Act1vated Joe Barry Carroll, center, trom the suspended list. Placed nm Perry, forward, on the 1n1ured list. 
NHL STANDINGS 
All Times EST 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Division 

w L T Pts GF GA 
NY Rangers 31 21 9 71 229 191 
Pittsburgh 31 26 3 65 256 225 
Philadelphia 29 27 6 64 204 193 
New Jersey 25 25 11 61 212 202 
Washington 27 31 3 57 195 210 
NY Islanders 21 32 B 50 179 222 
Adams Division 

x·Boston 36 18 B BO 235 202 
Montreal 32 23 7 71 212 192 
Hartford 27 27 6 60 175 195 
Buffalo 22 25 14 58 210 211 
Quebec 12 3B 11 35 171 26B 
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Norris Division 

W L T Pts GF GA St. Louis 36 17 7 79 235 191 Ch1cago 36 20 5 77 201 161 Detroit 26 30 6 58 213 229 Minnesota 20 32 10 50 195 215 Toronto 17 3B 6 40 177 246 Smythe Division Los Angeles 33 20 7 73 249 194 Calgary 32 21 6 70 245 1B6 Edmonton 29 2B 3 61 207 199 Winnipeg 22 31 10 54 20B 21B Vancouver 21 35 6 48 1B4 240 
x-clinched playoff berth Tuesday's Games Late Game Not Included 
Pittsburgh 6, Buffalo 3 
St. Louis 3, Toronto 2 
Detroit at Calgary, (n) Wednesday's Games 
Montreal at Hartford, 7:35p.m 

Edmonton at Minnesota, B:35 p.m. 
Vancouver at Winnipeg, B:35 p.m. 

Quebec at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. Thursday's Games 
N.Y. 
Rangers at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m Toronto at Pittsburgh, 7:35p.m. Boston at Chicago, 8:35 p.m. 

N.Y. 
Islanders at St. LOUIS, 8:35p.m. Vancouver at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 


NHL LINESCORE 
Buffalo 0 2-3 Pittsburgh 1 4 1~ 

First Penod-1, Pittsburgh, Recch1 31 (Lem1eux. Errey), 17:25. Penalties-Hartman, But (rough1ng), 20:00: Hillier, P1t (roughing), 20:00. 
Second Penod-2, Pittsburgh, Stevens 2B (Lemieux, Coffey), 10:07 (pp). 3, Pittsburgh, Bourque 17, 13:54 (sh) 4, Pittsburgh, Errey 15 (Roberts. Lem1eux), 15:41. 5, Pittsburgh, Jagr 20 (Recch1, Lem1eux), 1B:51. 6, Buffalo. Ruuttu 14 (Hawerchuk, Krupp), 19:43 (pp). Penalties­Wells, But (tnpping), 3:12; Zalapski. Pit (hooking), 5:34; Hartman. But (elbowing), B:33: Murphy, Pit (holding),12:11: Hartman. Buf (roughing), t4·41; Coffey, Pit (roughing), 14:41: Shannon. Buf (holding), 16:45. Trottier, P1t (tripping), 19:17. 
Th"d Penod-7, Pittsburgh, Trottier 6 (Loney, Gilhen), 3:12. 8. Buftalo, Andreychuk 22 (Krupp, Makela), 3:3B. 9, Buffalo, Hogue 14 (Andreychuk), 13:55. Pena1t1es-Ray. But (roughing), 2:43, Bourque, Pit (roughing), 2:43; Va1ve, But (tnpp1ng), 
11:18: Ray, But. maJor (fighting), 15:15; Loney, Pit, minor-major (elbowing, fighting), 15:15. Shots on goal-Buffalo 9-16-16-41. P1ttsburgh 14-10-6-30. Power-play Opportunities-Buffalo 1 ot 4; Pittsburgh 1 of 4. 
Goalies-Buftalo. Puppa. 12-11-5 (24 shots-19 saves), Wakaluk (1B:51 second, 6-5). Ptttsburgh, Barrasso, 18-12-1 (41-3B). 
A-16,164 

,;_ 
All Times EST EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Boston 39 13 .750 B·2 Lost 1 Philadelphia 27 24 .529 111/2 4-6 Won2 New York 22 30 .423 17 4-6 Lost 1 Washington 22 31 .415 171/2 3-7 Lost 1 New Jersey 17 35 .327 22 3-7 Wont M1am1 15 36 294 23 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 Central Division 
Ch1cago 37 14 .725  B-2  Won?  
Detroit 36 17 .679  2 6-4  Wont  
Milwaukee 33 20 .623  5 5-5  Won3  
Atlanta 2B 23 .549  9 3-7  Won2  
Indiana 22 2B .440  141/2 6-4  Won3  
Cleveland 1B 34 .346  191/2 6-4  Lost2  
Charlotte 15 36 .294  22 2-B  Lost3  
WESTERN CONFERENCE  
Midwest Division  
w L Pet  GB L10  Streak  
San Antonio 33 16 .673  4-6  Lost3  
Utah 34 17 .667  7-3  Won2  
Houston 29 23 .55B  51/2 7-3  Lost 1  
Dallas 20 29 .4GB  13 6-4  Won3  
Minnesota 17 33 .340  161/2 4-6  Wont  
Orlando 15 35 .300  1B1/2 5-5  Lost 2  
Denver 14 36 .2BO  191/2 5-5  Lost5  
Pacific Division  
Portland 41 10 .804  7-3  Lost 1  
LA Lakers 3B 13 .745  3 B-2  Won2  
Phoenix 33 17 .660  71/2 6-4  Won 1  
Golden State 2B 22 . 560  121/2 5-5  Lost 1  
Seattle 23 27 .460  171/2 4-6  Lost 3  
LA Clippers 16 34 .320  241/2 2-B  Lost!  
Sacramento 15 34 .306  25 4-6  Lost2  
Tuesday's Games  
Late Game Not Included  

Indiana 115, Charlotte 102 New Jersey 97, Sacramento 83 Atlanta 110, New York 102 Philadelphia 107. Seattle 104. OT Phoenix 1 09, Boston 105 Chicago 11B, Washington 113 LA Lakers 112, Houston 103 Milwaukee 116, Miami 90 Dallas at Portland, (n) 

Wednesday's Games Sacramento at Cleveland, 7:30p.m. Atlanta at Detroit, 7:30 p.m. Orlando at Indiana, 7:30 p.m. Golden State at M1nnesota, B p.m. Phoemx at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
AP MEN'S TOP 25 
1. 
UNLV (23-0) did not play. 

2. 
Ohio State (22-1) did not play. 

3. 
Arkansas (25-2) did not play. 


4. 
Indiana (22-3) did not play. 

5. 
Syracuse (23-3) did not play. 


6. 
North Carolina (20-4) did not play. 

7. 
Duke (22-5) did not play. 


B. Kansas (19-4) did not play. 9 Arizona (20-5) d1d not play. 
10. 
Utah (24-2) did not play. 

11. 
Southern Mississippi (20-3) did not play. 


12. 
Kentucky (19-5) did not play. 

13. 
East Tennessee State (24-3) did not play. 

14. 
Nebraska (22-4) did not play. 

15. 
New Mexico State (19-3) did not play. 

16. 
Oklahoma State (19-5) beat Kansas State 76-65. 

17. 
UCLA (1B-7) did not play. 

18. 
St. John's (17-6) did not play. 

19. 
LSU (17-7) did not play. 

20. 
Virginia (19-8) lost to Georgia Tech 73-60. 

21. 
MISSiSSippi State (17-6) did not play 

22. 
Pittsburgh (1B-B) d1d not play. 

23. 
Princeton (1B-2) did not play. 

24. 
Seton Hall (17-7) beat Niagara 76-61. 

25. 
Georgetown (15-8) did not play. 




THE AD HOC OFF.CAMPUS COMMITTEE FOR QUALITY OF LIFE INVITES 
ALL UNDERCLASSMEN MOVING OFF.CAMPUS IN J:99J:·J:992 to an 
OFF·CAMPUS FORUM 
Sponsorecl by Student Government and 
· Campus Miaistry 
Transportatioa available from Main Circle atz:4SP•· 


Wednesday, February 20, 1991 The Observer page 13 
carries the Irish at number one
Tennis singles, followed by sophomore Rockets await Olajuwon's return ­
Chuck Coleman, who has lost a 
continued from page 16 
Sunday, the Irish will be forced to realize that they're now among the best teams in the nation. If Notre Dame escapes with a win from the Jayhawks, top-ranked Stanford looms on the horizon. 
"Winning the first match will be a big chore," Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. "It's scary what they've done in doubles. Both of their guys at number one doubles are returning All­Americans." 
In case Kansas hasn't heard, the Irish have their own duo in Dave DiLucia and Chuck Coleman that upset Stanford's top-ranked doubles team in the fall. Junior Will Forsyth and Andy Zurcher will play at sec­ond doubles, while Paul Anthony and Ryan Wenger form the third doubles team. 
Junior All-American DiLucia few tough matches in recent play. Although coming out vic­torious in most of their matches, others have struggled lately for Notre Dame as well. 
"We have a couple of people who haven't reached their po­tential," said Bayliss. "Anyone who isn't playing well is doing so because of low confidence, and I think this tournament can take care of some of those problems." 
After preparing all week for Kansas, which hasn't played a match in over two weeks, by playing on a makeshift court in Gym 4 of the Joyce ACC, Notre Dame couldn't be any more prepared for the fast courts in Louisville. 
A loss in the opening round would pit the Irish against the loser of Miami-Texas Christian in the consolations on Friday morning. 
HOUSTON (AP) -Akeem Olajuwon, injured more than a month ago when he was el­bowed in the eye last month, expects to find out this week when he can return to the Houston Rockets' lineup. 
At a second workout with the team on Tuesday, the center said he will visit the doctor on Wednesday for a final determi­nation on his playing status. 
Before Tuesday night's game against the Los Angeles Lakers, the Rockets were 12-9 without Olajuwon and have won nine of their last 11. 
Olajuwon, injured Jan. 3 when he was elbowed by 
Bayliss 
continued from page 16 
1previous two years of my 
coaching at Notre Dame." 
Before the 1990 season, 
Bayliss' teams had a two-year 
mark of 36-22, a respectable Chicago's Bill Cartwright, practiced Monday for the first time and said he hoped he would be back in time for a Feb. 28 road game against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
"I felt good getting out on the floor and doing all of the things that everybody else does in practice," Olajuwon said. "Being able to do that is getting me excited, and now I want to come back and play as soon as possible." 
Olajuwon said last week that he planned to make his come­back appearance at the March 5 home game against the New Jersey Nets. 
record, but nothing shocking. Then, in 1990 with a senior, a sophomore and four freshmen, the Irish went 24-4 and turned the heads of many collegiate tennis devotees. · 
"Now everybody's gunning for us," said Bayliss. 
Three teams' shooting has been right on target against the Irish, as Notre Dame has lost three times in nine matches this season. But, as supporters will be quick to point out, those losses came against steep com­petition: Tennessee (ranked fourth}, Georgia (third) and Indiana. 
The Indiana loss came Feb. 12 and was a surprise to many. After initial losses to Tennessee and Georgia, followers hoped that those losses would keep the Irish humble for the rest of the season. 
"We didn't take the Indiana match seriously enough," said Bayliss. "We didn't respect their ability to beat us." 
After losing S-4 to Indiana, the team rebounded Saturday with a 6-3 victory over 15th­
"But if I am feeling better and I get the approval from the doctors, there is no reason to wait that long," he said. "I have been sitting for a long time. I think I've watched enough basketball. Now I want to play and help the team again." 
Olajuwon must pass one more eye exam before he is given clearance to play, but he seemed to wave that off as a mere formality. 
"Except for having my goggles fog up a little bit, everything with my eye seems fine," he said. "I can shoot the ball and see the basket line. 

Dave Dllucla 

ranked North Carolina. Now is this team, full of hope, full of expectations, full of everything, ready for the long haul? 
"I think now we are," said second-singles player Chuck Coleman, whose team will com­pete in the highly touted National Team Indoor Tournament this weekend. "In the beginning, it was really tough-a prime example was the Indiana match. Last year, we had everything to prove. We went out after everybody really hard. 
"This year, we're expected to do well, and that puts pressure on you. We probably had a little trouble adjusting to that. (The Indiana loss) taught us that we have to go out hard, and we 
-

went out hard against North Carolina. We had absolutely nothing to lose." 
But no longer is this the case. Ranked 13th, and with the ITCA and World Tennis magazine "Player to Watch" in David DiLucia, the Notre Dame tennis team has much to lose indeed. Being ranked in the top 20 carries the presumption that if the Irish continues the status quo, it will reach the NCAA tournament. 
"In some ways, that puts a little bit of pressure on us," said senior Ryan Wenger, who plays number-three doubles with sophomore Paul Anthony. "But rankings can fluctuate. There are a lot of ranked teams we can beat and a lot of unranked teams we could easily lose to. We learned to play ranked and unranked teams the same." 
And now, venturing forth, the 
Irish tennis team is going 
where no Bayliss team has 
gone before. 
"This is new territory for us," 
said Bayliss. "Last year, we 
played the season by the seat of 
......
our pants." And now that they're ranked? "I hope the loss to Indiana will be our wake-up call." 
• 


The Christian Conscience: 
Ethical Perspective on War and Peace 
February 21 
February 28 . March 7 
March 21 
When: Thursdays 
Time: 7:30 p.m. 
Where: LaFortune Student Center Tom Dooley Room, First Floor 
PEACEMAKING: THE GOSPEL IMPERATIVE Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Program of Liberal Studies. 
PEACEMAKING: NON-VIOLENCE AND THE CATHOLIC TRADITION Sr. Elena Malits, C.S.C., Professor of Religious Studies, Saint Mary's College. 
PEACEMAKING: PEACE AS THE FRUIT OF JUSTICE Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., Campus Ministry Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert, Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator, Center for Social Concerns. 
FORMATION OF CONSCIENCE AND CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION Dr. Todd Whitmore, Assistant Professor, Theology. 
This series of reflections, from a perspective of faith, addresses some of the principal ethical dimensions of war and peace. 
These thirty-minute presentations, co-sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns, will be followed by informal discussion and dialogue. 
....~. ...
-~~--~~ 

II t. :_;._--., ..; .!...".I' ~ 
-
.... 
page 14 
De Paul 
continued from page 16 
on a dismal 38 percent against Temple and 39.8 percent against Creighton. 
Phelps said the recent losses, following big improvements against La Salle, Syracuse and Marquette, have not caused the Irish to lost heart. 
"All we ask of the kids is to go out and play their best," said Phelps. "Each game is a new venture. Sometimes we play like a top 10 team and sometimes we play like we did against Temple and Creighton." 
While Sweet, like Howard, will be a power off the bench, the Irish will depend on starters Elmer Bennett (14.5 ppg, 4. 7 apg) and Kevin Ellery 
(11.3 ppg, 4.8 rpg). 
In addition to Booth and Howard, the Blue Demons re­ceive ample scoring from Terry Davis (9.6 ppg) who contributed 12 to the De Paul win last season. Jeff Stern (5.1 ppg, 3.9 rpg), Joe Daughrity (4.5 ppg, 
2.9 rpg) and Melvon Foster (7.8 ppg, 3.1 rpg) round out the starting lineup. 
Notre Dame and De Paul have met 81 times since the rivalry's inception. Although the Irish lead the series 45-36, the Blue Demons have won the last three and 12 of the last 16. 
This year's matchup tips-off at 8 p.m. Tonight's meeting is the first of two for the teams this year. They will play again March 9 in Chicago for Notre Dame's final regular season game. 
..t~, 
Mrun, 

----~-----~---~------------~-------~-~---~--~------·~­
The Observer Wednesday, February 20, 1991 
ND swimmers prepared to
SPORTS BRIEFS 

host MCC Championships 
•ATTENTION 
CREW MEMBERS: mandatory meeting today at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. $50 deposit for Spring Break and $40 dues MUST BE IN! Ergathon will be re­organized. 

•BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS will be held Sunday, Feb. 24 from 12-5 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shag. A $5 entry fee is required. 

•WOMEN'S 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL SIGN-UPS will be held in early March, separately from the sign-ups for Bookstore this Sunday. Players can participate in both tournaments but must sign-up for each. Also, anyone interested in being a commissioners-contact Diane at x1093. 

•FELLOWSHIP 
OF CHRISTIAN ATHLETES will be meeting Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the basement of Pangborn. Important events coming up: Midwest College Retreat and Prayer Week. If you're interested in either, but can't make the meeting, call Mark Zoia at x1606 or Cathy Bradshaw at x4088. 

•MEN'S 
VOLLEYBALL: this Friday, Feb. 22 at 8 p.m., Notre Dame will take on arch-rival Michigan State. This match promises to be one of the best the Irish will host all season. Come out for great volleyball action in the JACC pit. Admission is free! 

•ND/SMC 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE will have practice on Sunday from 4-6 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. Bring a blank check for jackets. Questions? Call Cathy at 284-4456. 


By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame swim teams culminate a season of prepara­tion in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference champi­onship this Thursday, Friday and Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish look to defend their men's and women's MCC titles from last year against conference teams: Butler, Evansville, Loyola, and Xavier. 
Thirty conference records were broken in the 1990 cham­pionship meet. The Irish women scored 1,068 points ahead of St. Louis and Xavier, while the men netted 966 points over Evansville, Xavier and St. Louis. 
"The memory of an exciting meet last year has been built into the preparation this year," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "From what we saw at the MCC meet in the fall, the whole field has improved since last year. 
It'll be harder to make finals this year." 
Swimmers to watch:. Jennifer Chase of St. Louis, swimmer of the meet in 1990, Christy Van Patten, defending champion in the 50 free and 100 butterfly, Kim Steel, defending champion in the 500 freestyle, Jenny Kipp, defending champion in both 1-meter and 3-meter div­ing, and Brian Rini, who holds meet records in the 500 and 1650 freestyles. 
The Irish men also seek to replace all four members of their record setting 400 freestyle relay team. The MCC will also seek to replace Butler's Ian Borgerhoff, the 1990 MVP recipient and record holder in the 200 and 400 individual medleys and the 200 breaststroke. 
Welsh has filled the meet primarily with freshmen and seniors, and feels both men and women will need to count on sprinters to perform well. 
11 

THE NATIONAL COLLEGE NEWSPAPER 
Joins wih the CJbserwr in hoping f<x the quick and safe return of our loved ones in the Persian Gulf. 

This \leek At Iridl Gardens Were OfferingAn 
''Even'' ~al. 
Buy Two For The Price OfOne On Selected Flowers. 
Qffer lasts through Friday, Feb. 22nd 
~Tr· h
""4~~ens 
'-~ ~Mnby~&rmby· 12;3().5~· ruMm;~ 

ol.ttan gettthe "Best Pizza in Town" at their price. 
:Ft'lr albijitetltilnelf you use a '' Domino's " coupon yo ..,.cC)Jl g¢t our pizzaat their price and get a two litre or a · pitcl!¢r. of Pepsi absolutely free!! Order now, this 
(liferis t(lo good. tolast 
N~tfJilitJ With any otlier offer. Valid for dine in, carry out afJllt:/~{ivery. fof(/eliveryon the Notre Dame and ST. Mci,Y's tqmpus c;alt 232 -2499 · 
$$$ MONEY $$$ 

We'd like to give you a break with our Special Spring Break Loan! 
• Only 11.99% APR, Fixed 
• $500 Maximum 
You'll have all summer 
• 
Deferred Payments: to repay (until Aug. 1, 1991) 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 


~ NOTREDAME 

~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from th'e Universlt 
• 

Th~·c;;,;~rv",;'rT paQe 1~~ 
------------~~----------~ 
LECTURES CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
ACROSS 37 Jan. 1 event 63 Marion follower 38 Broadway 
64 Predestines
6:30 p.m. Lecture: "PMS: Fact and Fiction," Karen 1 Disable 
production: 

65 Huge hideosity 
Lesch, H.M.C. The Foster Hoom, LaFortune Student Cen­5 Coteries 1959 
66 Baseball's
ter. Sponsored by The Year of Women. 9 Degrade 41 Vilipend 
Brock and 14 Anent 42 Business abbr. 
Whitaker
7:30 p.m. Lecture: "The Neurobiology of Mind," 1990-15 Stretched tight 43 Composer 
Bartok

16 Canary's cousin 44 Castle or 
91 llenkels Visiting Scholars Series, Core Course Henkels, 
17 Horse racing DOWN
Professor Patricia Smith Churchland, University of Cali­
Hervey

20 Stove
fornia at San Diego. Stepan Center. Sponsored by College 
45 Adj. for a non­1 Trig, e.g. 
21 "-,my
of Arts and Letters, Departments of Biological Sciences, 
commissioned 2 County in N.C.
children.
Philosophy, Heilly Center, Core Course and Continuing officer 3 Graceful tree 
22 Bank employee 
Medical Education of St. Joseph Medical Center. 46 Singer Akers 4 Majority 
25 Gate 
47 Diamond­

5 Cache 29 Poetic shaped pattern 6 Corn unit contraction 
49 Equus 

7 Half a rebuke 30 Edible tubers members
CAMPUS 8 Like some
35 On the 53 TV adjunct kisses Sarg~sso 58 Cornucopia
Wednesday 9 Makes an
36 "-Louse": 61 Broadcast 
inquiry
Burns 62Mardi­10"-everso
6:30 p.m. Workshop: "Career/Major Decision Making," 
humble ..." 
Hoom 303 University Counseling Center. Sponsored by 
11 "Comus"
University Counseling Center. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE composer -:-:-r-:-r:::-r:::-1 12 Omen
7 p.m. Film: "The Conversation," Annenberg Audito­
-'-'+'-+:'-t-:-t 1 3 0 n e of
rium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame Commu­Tennessee's nication and Theatre. twosomes 18 Fountain or 32 Kind of beam 48 Memory gap 55"--the valley 9:15p.m. Film: "The Atomic Cafe," Annenberg Audito­Sampras 33 Circus Maxim us 49 Chillicothe was of. " 19 Evergreen official its first capital 
56 Alaskan island 

rium, Snite Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame Commu­
57 Alkaline23 Writer Uris 34 Large hickory 50 Reputed fiddler 

nication and Theatre. 
solutions

-=+::+::+-+=-l 24 Ahead 51 Attention getter 
36 Calendar abbr. 58 Little boy 
37 G.l. under an 59 Assn. 
-'-+.::.+----+-''-! 26 Tithe collector 54 Film spool 60 A long way off 
NCO ~rnillrill. 27 Female 39--Miss
MENU .; sandpiper 40 Sole
-::::+.:':-1-:':+.:-+=-i 28 B I a ck buck Answers to any three clues in this 
45 "--bragh"

-:-++.:..r.::::-E-1 30 Yank 's uncI e puzzle are available by touch-tone .-.:=-+:::++=-! 31 Island off phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each
46 Ship part Venezuela 47 Depot abbr. minute).
Notre Dame 
Marinated Flank Steak Grilled Sole Noodle Kugel 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
A t{t.'fl 1-\0R'S£1-\M-1

RIG~\.' 11-\\S WILL BE A 
l TI-\I"'K Llf=t.· srz.t. EQIJI;.STR\1\N 
01= TW~ 

l.'M GC\~G­r-~r"11"~. STfo..\\1\;. or M£ ~ 
TD t{'eEI)
AI>OCII.L'{P'SE, 

You've blown up your neighbor's mom. Your seven-year-old brother has better luck with women than you do. 
AnTostal '91
Your girlfri~nd ha~ a new boyfriend. 
liThe Best College Spring Festival~~ Meeting #3 Thursday at 9 pm Library Auditorium 
-· 

THURSDAY 8 & 10:30 PM $2 ADMISSION CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
~•-••-..,. • • • '"•• .• ,...._ ... • •·•-......-•.. • -..• .•_.,,.,_.. .,..,_~...-~ .....~ .... ~ ••;.._...._ ... • • • .:...:.:.:.:.:....__ • ..... 1-.1'-....'r'~--.•••• ....~--"'"''"r•••:;~IIIY•..,. J 






STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Women batter Billikens into MCC submission 
By RENE FERRAN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Louis never had a chance. 
Even if Notre Dame had not been coming off an upset loss to Miami (Ohio) Sunday, the Irish had too many weapons for the outmanned Billikens. But the loss only made the 22nd-ranked team in the nation angry, and it took out its frustrations on Saint Louis. 
Notre Dame scored the first 18 points of the contest en route to an 87-47 victory over the Billikens Tuesday night at the Joyce ACC. Saint Louis (0­21, 0-13) committed 17 turnovers in the first 11 min­utes of the game as the Irish opened up a 27-6 lead and never looked back. 
"One thing Coach (Muffet) McGraw stressed in the pregame talk was intensity, keeping it up for 40 minutes, and I think we did that tonight," said senior guard Karen Robinson, who led the Irish with 22 points and nine assists. 
"We wanted to take Saint Louis right out of their game and make them play catchup from the beginning, and we did that," sophomore Coquese Washington said. 
Irish travel to Louisville for tournament 
By DAVE MCMAHON 
Sports Writer 
The 13th-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team gets to reap the benefits of a phenomenal fall season today as it begins play against Kansas in the opening round of the USTA/ITCA National Intercollegiate Indoor Team Championships. 
Hosted by the University of Kentucky and the Louisville Tennis Club, the event brings together the top 20 teams in the nation based on records from the the fall season. In a region that includes several in­dependents along with mem­bers of the Big 10, Notre Dame {6-3) finished at the top of the heap and qualified for its first ever trip to the National Indoors. 
After a gutty 6-3 win against 15th-ranked North Carolina on 
see TENNIS I page 13 
-~-~ 

r 



Another point McGraw stressed after the Miami game was rediscovering the type of defense played earlier in the season, a pressure man-to-man which completely took teams out of any offensive rhythm. 
At least last night, it re­turned, as Notre Dame forced 37 turnovers overall, including 12 by starting point guard Kandi Klaves-hawked all evening by Washington, who had three steals to go with her 14 points. 
"After we played De Paul ear­lier in the season, we lost our defensive intensity. We weren't playing as hard-nosed defense as we normally play," Washington said. "That was a focus after the Miami game, to get our defense back up to where it normally was, and we accomplished that." 
Three other Irish players were in double figures. Krissi Davis pumped in 20 points, Margaret Nowlin added 14 and Kristin Knapp came off the bench to chip in 11. Forward Kathy Purvis led Saint Louis with 15 points. 
Notre Dame did a fine job shutting down the Billikens' top scorer, Donna Luechtefeld. The freshman shot 2 of 9 from the field in scoring only five points, and at times was visibly frus­trated by Notre Dame's pres­sure, forcing several bad shots. 
The Irish also dominated the offensive glass, grabbing 23 of­fensive rebounds and enjoying a 50-30 overall rebounding edge. 
An enthusiastic crowd of 1,368 came out on "Niles Night" at the ACC. Many of the fans were there to see local product Andrea Alexander play, and while the freshman did not score, she pulled down five re­bounds. 
Only three games remain on the regular season slate for the Irish (19-5, 14-0), including a non-conference matchup with Old Dominion Saturday at 2 
p.m. at the JACC. 

Last night, therefore, was the final conference home game for the seniors, a fact which did not go unnoticed by Robinson. She delighted the fans with behind­the-back passes, fancy dribbling and several reverse lay-ups, giving them a perfor­mance she hopes they will re­member her by. 
"It's getting down to my last few games, and I was thinking about that before the game, getting a little misty-eyed be­cause my last game at Notre Dame is coming up," she said. 
Notre Dame to host rival De Paul 
By CHRIS COONEY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish can't get any relief. 
A weary 10-16 Notre Dame men's basketball team must re­vive after just one day's rest to face another surging rival at the Joyce ACC tonight, this time in the form of the De Paul Blue Demons. 
In what has become a colorful series, the Irish will have to put their 90-67 Monday night loss to Creighton out of their minds to muster the strength needed against a 16-7 Blue Demon squad that has won eight straight. 
"I think looking at their team right now, they're in the posi­tion for the NCAA tournament," said Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps of De Paul on Tuesday. 
Phelps is especially worried 

The Observer/Scott McCann 
Coach Bob Bayliss's 13th-ranked men's tennis squad is coming off a big victory over No. 15 North Carolina. 

about entering a bench matchup with the Blue Demons. Reserve Stephen Howard is one of De Paul's biggest contribu­tors and represents what the Irish lack -depth. The Irish have had to start freshmen to compensate for injuries and ineligibilities. 
"Howard is a great player," said Phelps of De Paul's second­leading scorer (15.3 ppg) and rebounder (6.2 rpg). "He does the things you've got to do as a front line player." 
Howard will help spell De Paul's leader, David Booth. The 6-7 forward sank 26 points in the Blue Demons' 64-59 win over Notre Dame at the end of last season and paces the team with 20.2 ppg and seven rpg. 
Compounding the Irish prob­lems is a lack of rest. For the second time this season, Notre Dame will play its third game in six days. On a depleted Irish roster, that means few players will have time to even catch their breath. 
"You've got to worry about when to rest people and when you're going to have spurts," Phelps said. "The wear and tear comes into it as a factor." 
One player who won't have much time to rest is Notre Dame's leading scorer, Daimon Sweet. While Sweet led the Irish in the Creighton game with 18 points, Phelps will look to the junior to get to foul line more often and rebound more ag­gressively on the offensive boards. 
The Irish will also have to get out of their shooting slump if they hope to upset the Blue Demons. Notre Dame connected 
see DE PAUU page 14 






