
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 17, 1991
VOL. XXIII NO. 129 -· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Attanasio named new director of peace institute 
By L. PETER YOB 
Assistant News Editor 

.John Attanasio. professor of law in the University of Notre Damn Law Sehoul, will beeome the new director of the Univer­sity's Institute for International Peaee Studies. 
Attanasio will suceeed John Gilligan, the former Ohio gov­ernor who has bnen the direc­tor of the Institute since its in­eeption in 1l.JS5. 
Attanasio said. ''I'm grateful to Father Malloy and University Provost Timothy O'Meara for this opportunity." 
"They are very supportive of the Institute," he said. "We have good working relations and I think this will inure to the bPnefit of the Institute." 
"John Attanasio is an ex­tremely m1ergetic and creative scholar whose international experience and strong back­ground in human rights are ideally suited to the Institute's work," O'Meara said. "He pos­sesses all the qualities of intel­lect, vision and leadership nec­essary to guide the Institute through its next phase of de­velopment." 
"I feel very happy and ex­cited about the job," Attanasio said. "At the same time I ap­proaeh the job with a tremen­dous sense of responsibility." 
"The world situation being what it is: in flux, in a period of change, there are possibilities and problems," he said. "We have a responsibility to engage these possibilities and try to make the world a better place than it was before." 
Attanasio praised Father Theodore Jlesburgh, University president-emeritus, and Gilli­gan for their work in founding the Institute. "I feel grateful because the Institute has made 

AP Photo

Near Death 

An elderly Kurdish woman dies on the roadside near the border of Iraq this Sunday. Hundreds of migrating Kurds are believed to be dying in the mountains in efforts to escape Iraq. 
~--~--------------~ 

Archbishop discusses the importance of Catholic laity 
By MEG SHUFF 
News Writer 
Arehbishop Denis llurley feels that soda! eoneern, lay participation. and the praetice of eommunity go hand-in-hand in the struggle of Catholic public opinion for fmedom and politieal institutions throughout thn world. 
Hurley, thf~ arehbishop of Durban. Hepublie of South Ameriea, was one of the nu­nwrous seholars who discussed topies coneerning politieal insti­tutions and the qunst for free­dom on the seeond day of "One Hundred Years of Catholie So­da! Thought." 
During the symposium, spon­sored by till' University of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, Hurley noted that the overwhelming majority of the Church is lay and it is through their influence that soda! eoncern develops. 
"If social concern is to be a reality it must be so through the laity," he said "There can be no promotion of soeial coneern without the participation of the laity." 
From the beginnings of the Church and up to the Second Vatiean Coundl, the role of the laity in the Church has been in­strumental. according to Hur­ley. This was especially true 
see HURLEY I page 6 


John Attanasio 

a tremendous start in the short period of time it's been in exis­tence," Attanasio said. 
Attanasio said he hopes to "carry the Institute forward from this very strong founda­tion." He said he wants to "continue the very important teaching mission of the Insti­tute and make it more and more influential both in schol­arship and in the formation of public policy." 
Attanasio returned to Notre Dame this year after a semester as a Fulbright Seholar in the Soviet Union, where he lectured to groups including deputies of the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R., the ethics department of the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences, and the Institute of International Rela­tions of the U.S.S.R. Foreign Ministry. 

He has lectured to members of the German Federal Court and continues to work with leg­islators and judges from the 
U.S.S.R. and Eastern European nations. 

In Hungary, Attanasio re­cently presented a specially compiled book of information on market legal structures to the leadership of seven Eastern European parliaments. held meetings with the chief judge of the Hungarian constitutional court, and lectured at the Uni­versity of Budapest. 
At Notre Dame this year, At­tanasio team-taught, with Igor Grazin, a deputy of the Supreme Soviet, a course com­paring the constitutional sys­tems of the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1985 and named the Law School's out­standing faculty member by its students in 1988, he serves as chair of the advisory board of Notre Dame's Center for Civil and Human Rights and as fac­ulty advisor of the Notre Dame Law Review. 
Attanasio plans to continue teaching courses in Constitu­tional Law and First Amend­ment in the Law School next year. 
Attanasio's writing has been published in journals. lie coed­its a constitutional law case-
see ATTANASIO /page 6 




Nationwide railroad strike possible amid collapse of contract debate 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Last­ditch contract talks between freight railroads and their unions broke up Monday evening, all but assuring a coast-to-coast strike after midnight that could strand rail passengers and stop the flow of one-third of the nation's goods. 
The nation's 235,000 freight workers had vowed to go on strike early Wednesday if a settlement was not reaehed by the midnight deadline. Several unions set the strike for 7 a.m. loeal time, although under fed­eral law, workers were free to walk off their jobs anytime after midnight. 
"I assume there was just no reason to go on," Jim Reiter. a spokesman for the Association of American Railroads, said about three hours before a fed­erally imposed "cooling off" period was set to expire at midnight. Washington time. 
Even as the talks broke off, unions still insisted that they were willing to try to avoid a strike. 
"The unions, at this point, while we recognize that there are still a great many problems to resolve, the door is open to try to engage in meaningful ne­gotiations," said Ed Wytkind, a spokesman for the unions. 

Dan Lang, another industry spokesman, said the carriers made an 11th-hour attempt to settle by offering a new pro­posal. He offered no specifics, but said, "Obviously. it came to naught." 
Wytkind said he was unaware of any substantive new pro­posal. 
Earlier, Larry McFather, president of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, said "we feel we have no choice" but to strike. "Our people have been eut to the bone." 
"We'll probably shut the whole system down," said William Fairchild of the Trans­portation Communication Workers' carmen's division. 
Presidential spokesman Mar­lin Fitzwater said the Bush administration was prepared to work with Congress on speedy legislation "to impose a settle­ment and end the strike." 
Congressional leaders had refused to enaet legislation to stop a strike before it started. but Tuesday, meeting behind closed doors, said that if a walkout occurred. they would hurry legislation to resolve the dispute. 
"My feeling is that, given the nature of the eeonomy, it is im­portant to act in a timely fash­ion," said Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., chairman of the Senate Education and La­bor Committee. 
A House panel had already scheduled a hearing for early Wednesday, with both labor, management and Transporta­tion Secretary Samuel Skinner set to testify on the impasse. 
At issue is a three-year-old dispute over wages, work rules and health eare costs. 
Unions contend the railroads have not offered high enough pay increases to make up for wage freezes of the past. Man­agement argues that railroad workers' salaries are already 
see TRAIN/page4 



D-2 lot reorganization proposed 
By STEVEN KRAUSS 
News Writer 
Dave McManus of Parking Services unveiled, at the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) meeting last night, a new proposal by the organization concerning the D-2 parking lot. 
Beginning next fall, D-2 will officially become two lots; the southern portion will be for South Quad, while North Quad residents will park in the northern part of the lot. 
The idea is an effort to ap· pease drivers from South Quad who found their parking spaces squeezed out by construction near the post office and the football stadium. These stu­dents will now have a little less of a trek to get to their cars. 
Reaction to the proposal was mixed: Flanner Hall Co-presi­dent Rich Delevan called the idea unnecessary. "Adding one more level of bureaucracy in order to save people thirty steps is ludicrous." 

Megan Sullivan of Badin Hall thought that th~l new parking plan is "a nice gesture for the people who got displaced due to the construction. It's also a good idea for north quad fe­males to be placed in the southern lot." 
Under McManus' plan, North Quad females will be permitted to park in the south lot for safety reasons, as well as to avoid overcrowding in the two North Quad lots. South Quad females would continue parking in the D-6 lot. 
While McManus had the floor, he addressed questions about some current parking prob­lems. Asked about the paving schedule for the D-6 parking lot, he said that the new part of the lot is over a swamp and must settle first. The portion that was paved prior to expan­sion, however, is expected to be repaved "sometime during the summer months." 
McManus also stated that markers and signs to assist students in finding their cars in all lots are "on order." · 
In other HPC action. Joe Cas­sidy was introduced to the presidents as HPC moderator. When asked about his goals for next year, Cassidy said, "It's up to the presidonts what they want to get accomplished. I'm here merely as a moderator." In addition to his involvement with HPC, Cassidy is director of Student Activities. 
,r 
f 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Mourning the close of freshman year 
"Good bye and good luck," Mr. McNeill said to me, as he firmly shook my hand during the conclusion of my final conference with my freshman advisor. 
Megan Junius 

His words prompted me News Copy Editor think about the upcoming years in my life. Then, my ------­thoughts turned back to the numerous ad­vantages of having "freshman" beside my name. 

At the beginning of the year, when people would ask what year I was, I would reply, "Oh, I'm JUST a freshman." 
Looking back on that statement I realize all of the advantages and benefits being "just a freshman" has to offer. 
As a freshman I was enrolled in required courses. Very few choices had to be made. Now , approaching my sophomore year, I am expected to select my courses myself. 
Being a freshman is so much fun. Every­thing is planned -nice and simple. 
We freshmen have our own advisors, just for freshmen. We have our own major, Fresh­man Year. We even have special classes la­beled for "freshmen only." 
At these thoughts, I realized all that Notre Dame has offered, not only me, but to all freshman. And, I thought about all that I have already experienced on my own during freshman year. 
At the beginning of the year, during football season, when I forgot my ID, all I had to do was tell the guard the name of my rector and, of course, the fact that I was a JUST a freshman. I didn't know any better -Of course, I got in. 
Now, think way, way back to Orientation Weekend. What other time of your life have you had the opportunity to randomly walk up to people and find out their name, hometown and dorm? 
Speaking of randomness, when else, besides freshman year, would it be acceptable to hand pick your date out of the dogbook, then have your roommate call the guy and set you both up for your SYR? 
As first semester continues, the shock of college exams becomes reality. "I received a D-on my first paper for Freshman Seminar," I told my mother tearfully over the telephone. My parents, the ones I have learned to love dearly since coming to college, told me not to worry about my grades, I was still adjusting. 
As freshman year comes to a close, I realize the necessity to accept the fact that life does go on. Although it may seem that I mourn the close of freshman year, in actuality, I look forward to the years to come. However, this is only because upperclassmen have guaranteed that it only gets better. 
The opmwns expressed in the inside column are those of the author, and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Tuesday's Staff 

News  Scoreboard  
David Kinney  Mark McGrath  
Alicia Reale  
Production  
Accent Melissa Cusack Paige Smoron  Circulation  Lisa Bourdon Kristin Lynch  
Ad  Design  Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak  VIewpoint Rich Riley 
Dou11 Bronsing  
TraCI Hupp  Systems 
Kevin Hardman  Chris Caracciolo  
Amy Eckert  Mike Murphy 
Lisa Gunsorek  
Graphics 
Sports  Brendan Regan 
Rene Ferran  
Jennifer Marten  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer 1S a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Stolen Monet back in museum 
• PARIS:: The celebrated painting by Claude Monet that lent its name to the Impressionist movement was back on display Tuesday at the museum from which is was stolen in a daring holdup more than five years ago. "Impression, Soleil Levant" (Impression, Sunrise) suffered no damage. The paintings were stolen Oct. 27, 1985, by an armed gang of seven who forced a guard and visitors to lie on the floor while they carried off the art works. 
Police announced cocaine seizure 
• BOGOTA, Colombia-More than 10 tons of cocaine believed linked to the Medellin cartel was discovered by narcotics police in the nation's largest single drug seizure, authorities announced Tuesday.The cocaine, which was ready for shipment to the United States and Europe, was found hidden underground in a ranch near the town of Buenos Aires. A newspaper quoted unnamed police sources as saying the cocaine was worth $2 billion. So far this year, Colombian police have seized about 31 tons of cocaine. Last year, about 44 tons of cocaine were seized. 
NATIONAL 
US aids refu~es jn North Iraq 
• WASHINGT N-The Bush administration said Tuesday that U.S. military forces will begin moving in and out of northern Iraq, assisting Kurdish refugees fleeing the army of Saddam Hussein. The State De­partment estimates that as many as 1,000 Iraqi refugees 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Off-Campus Seniors must pick up Senior Formal bids today at the Saint Mary's off-campus lounge between 12-3 p.m. or in Theodore's between 3-6 p.m. Tuxedo pick­up is today in Theodore's between 2-9 p.m. 

• 
AnTostal mud volleyball schedules are now posted in the S.U.B. office window. Teams are responsible for finding out when they are playing. 

• 
Student Government Board of Trustees Committee on CulturaJ Diversity applications due today. Return all applications to Student Government Office by 5 p.m. Any 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/April16, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 

• 3.12
214.48 Million 211.71 S&P COMPOSITE 387.62 • 6.43 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,986.88 • 53.71 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD 1} $ .40 to $361.60/oz. 
SILVER .. 0.5¢ to $3.992/oz. 

are dying from disease each day along the Turkish border. Fitzwater said the United States had sent nearly 8,300 people, primarily military, to the Turkish border to aid in the relief effort. 
Father given probation 
•oRLANDO, Fla. -The first person convicted under a 1989 state law designed to prevent accidental shootings of children has been sentenced to six months probation and community service. James Kallok was convicted two months ago on a misdemeanor charge of leaving a loaded firearm within easy access of a minor. His teen-age son accidentally shot a friend last year while playing with a gun he had found in a closet. Kallok was sentenced and ordered to give six speeches to community groups about keeping guns away from young people. Kallok's then-14­year-old son, John, found a loaded .32-caliber pistol and accidentally wounded another boy in the head. 
INDIANA 
Indiana State President resigns 
•TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -Richard Landini, who has been president of Indiana State University since 197 5, will step down on June 30, 1992. Landini is the university's eighth president, and his tenure is the third­longest in the institution's history. "Because of the major role Dr. Landini has played in the institution's history, finding a successor for him will be a challenge," Green said. Landini said that after giving much thought to his retirement, he and his wife decided it was time "to point our lives in new directions." 
questions call Joe Wilson 283-1686. 
• 
Notre Dame Pre-Law Society general meeting today at 7:30p.m., to be held in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall. This meeting is especially important for next year's se­niors. 

• 
The Center for Social Concerns is hosting a hospitality luncheon tomorrow, April18, from 11:30 a.m.­


1:30 p.m. at the CSC. The luncheon, sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace, is to benefit single parents. All are welcome to attend. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1492: A contract was signed between Christopher Columbus and Spain to seek a westward ocean passage to Asia. 

• 
In 1524: Giovanni da Verrazano discovered present-day New York harbor. 

• 
In 1941: Yugoslavia surrendered to Germany in World War II. 

• 
In 1961: About 1,500 CIA-trained Cuban exiles launched the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in a failed attempt to overthrow the government of Fidel Castro. 

• 
One year ago: The Kremlin announced cuts in Lithuania's fuel supplies for refusing to rescind pro­independence laws. 



~-------~--­
Wednesday, April17, 1991 The Observer 


Media challenge of war coverage restriction fails 
Department's request to dismiss on the number of journalists Jones Magazine, The L.A. constitutional claims. 
American ExpressAnnouncesA Great New Travel Program. 
NEW YORK (AP) -A federal judge on Tuesday dismissed a lawsuit by news organizations that ehallenged the eonstitu­tionality of Pentagon rules gov­erning media access to combat. 
U.S. District Judge Leonard Sand said the media had the right to sue the government, but he ruled he did not have enough information to decide the case now that the Persian Gulf War was over. 
"Prudence dictates that a final d11termination of the important constitutional issues at stake be h1ft for another day when the controversy is more sharply focused," Sand said in a written decision granting the Defense the case. 
Pentagon rules in the war against Iraq established pool coverage, restricted descrip­tions of combat and required military review of combat dis­patches. 
Sand said the case raised new and important questions about the relationship between the First Amendment and national security, especially about the role of American journalists in wars abroad. 
But he said he couldn't decide the issues because he had no way of knowing what future military conflicts would bring. 
"Who can say that during the next American overseas mili­tary operation some restriction granted access at a particular time to a particular battlefield may not be a reasonable time, place and manner restriction?" Sand said. 
The judge complained that the news organizations never responded when he asked for alternatives to the Pentagon regulations that they thought would be constitutional. 
"Plaintiffs' only response was that the press be allowed unlimited, unilateral access," Sand said. 
The lawsuit was filed on be­half of The Nation, Harper's, In These Times, Pacific News Ser­vice, The Guardian, The Pro­gressive Magazine, Mother Weekly and The Village Voice. 

Journalists who joined in the lawsuit were Sydney Schanberg, a columnist for Newsday; Michael Klare, defense correspondent for The Nation; and novelists E.L. Doctorow and William Styron, who wrote about the Gulf War for The Nation. 
Franklin Siegel, an attorney with the Center for Constitu­tional Rights, which prepared the lawsuit, said he was review­ing the decision and would comment later. 
Sand also dismissed a sepa­rate lawsuit brought by Agence France Presse, the French news service, which raised similar 
The lawsuit said the Pen­tagon's position that the rules were adopted for security rea­sons was a cover for the rules' true purpose -"to control and manipulate information avail­able to the American public." 
The complaint said the prac­tices and the rules used in the war violated or threatened to violate the news organizations' rights to freedom of press and freedom of speech and associa­tion. 
It said pool coverage violated the right to freedom of press and equal protection by "giving some reporters preferential treatment and access not ac­corded to others." 
Now students can get the Card and get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, for only $129 or $189 each. 
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending alot of money. And that's by getting the American Express• Card. lc's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on Continental Airlines. 
48 contiguous stales. And you can fly almost anytime-because there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations within 14 days ofthe day you leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include aSaturday night. 
In addition to this great travel program, you'll also enjoy all the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student privileges. They include aquarterly magazine filled with informa­tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable discounts from leading retailers. 
But remember, there's only one way to get all this-and that's by getting the American Express Carel. Just call us (have your bank 
address and account number on hand). What's more, just look at the map and pick the place you<i like 
~ with our special student offer, it's easier to get the 
to visit lf it's on vour side of the Mississippi River, you ! Card now while you're still in school than it may can use acertificate w fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, ever be again. you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
You have your pick ofmore than 150 cities in the territory on eitherside of our Great Continental Divide. 
TRAVEL 
RElATED 



CALL 1-800-942-AMEX e 
II • SERVICES 

Ifyou "re already a Cardmember; tbere"s no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arrir,ing soon CONTINENTAL 
Nl.vn.t~E•po-.a~ 

---~-------­
Complf'lt ltrms ~nd rondi!Jons of :hi\ lrlYt'1 Clfi'C'I wd1 ~rr1vt> 'kllh vour ltrli6Cllt!> Conllnf'nlal .,irfint5 .alont Is respons1hlf' for ful611mrnr of (his ofrr Amt'rican F.zprts• ,USUmt'l no liabilll)' lot Ccwilwftr1J AirlJnn' prrfotnunce. C J99l Amtrlcal'l hprna Trlftl klllrd Snvk'n Comp~ny. lac. 
--~ ~------­
._.,.___,..__.,..__ ...... 

Train 
continued from page 1 
higher than most other indus­trial employees. 
Work rules determining crew sizes and miles traveled in an 8-hour shift are other stumbling blocks. In addition, management wants workers to start paying part of their health care premiums. 
Three of the 11 unions in­volved had reached tentative settlements, but all 235,000 freight employees were ex­pected t<l honor picket lines, even if more agreements were reached and just one union wanted to strike over the im­passe. 
Bargainers met virtually around-the-clock on Monday and continued marathon ses­sions on Tuesday before the talks collapsed. 
Unions had two strike options -targeting all carriers simultaneously or beginning se­lective strikes in which workers would try to shut down one

Navy Commander Bill Melby playfully wrestles with his children 
carrier in one region of the

after his return from duty in the Middle East 
country on a specific day and another the next. 
Selective, or hit-and-run strikes, would enable the unions to make their point but 

Indiana military bases may 
be closed in proposed cuts still possibly avoid a national 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -One of a series of public hearings on proposed military base closings will be held next month in Indianapolis. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney's recommendations in­clude major changes at Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indi­anapolis and Grissom Air Force Base at Peru, with other per­sonnel shifts at the Naval Avionics Center in Indianapolis and the Crane Naval Weapons Support Center. 
The May 24 meeting in Indi­anapolis will be one of eight such hearings the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission plans to conduct nationwide. 
The eight-member, indepen­dent panel has until July 1 to decide whether to approve or amend Cheney's list before for­warding it to President Bush and Congress, who are required to accept or reject the package in its entirety. 
Cheney's proposal would 

emergency that would clear the close 43 military bases and way for Congress to intervene. scale back 28 other installa­A four-day rail strike in 1982 tions. effectively shut down the na­
No one has been named yet to 
tion's rail system and stalled 

testify at the hearings, but wit­passenger trains around the nesses will likely include offi­country. At the time, officials cials from communities sur­estimated the walkout cost the rounding the affected bases. U.S. economy up to $1 billion a 
Only one or two of the part­
day.

time commissioners will attend "We've got a very, very pre­each session. carious economy that's just on 
In addition to the hearings, at its way coming back. We can­least one commissioner will not afford to have that recoveryvisit each site scheduled to be interrupted by an unnecessaryclosed, Kevin Kellems, press 
strike," Skinner said Tuesday. 

secretary to Sen. Richard Lu­McFather said a strike would gar, said Tuesday. Those visits 
be designed to bring the carri­

have not been scheduled, he ers back to the bargainingsaid. table. Lugar had asked commission "We're not doing this to affect 
chair James Courter to hold the economy-We're not doing one of the regional hearings in this to hurt the public,"Indiana. McFather said. 
At the commission's first 
If a nationwide strike oc­curred, it was expected to im­mediately choke the flow of one-third of the nation's goods and idle as many.as 550,000 other American workers who depend on train-delivered goods to complete their jobs. 
Chrysler Corp. said in a statement, "Obviously, a rail strike of any length could result in massive closings. Our indus­try is already facing tough times, and this would be an­other blow which would slow our recovery." 
Production and employment levels in auto, paper, lumber, steel, coal mining, glass pro­duction, plastics and chemical industries were expected to be hardest hit, administration of­ficials said. 
Thousands of train-riding commuters and Amtrak pas­sengers could be stranded, too. 
Though the unions involved work on freight lines, most Am­trak trains, and many com­muter trains such as those in the Chicago area, share tracks with freight lines and therefore service would be disrupted. 
Amtrak's busiest region, the Northeast corridor from Washington to Boston, would not be affected because Amtrak owns that track. 
A key issue in the negotia­tions is how closely railroad workers' contracts should mir­ror a presidential emergency board's report issued in Jan­uary. That study recommended yearly pay boosts for workers, but also said they should start paying part of their health cost premiums. 
Unions were highly critical of the report, saying its pay scale was not high enough in light of a wage freeze in effect since 1988. 

SPIRITUALITY IN WOMEN'S LITERATURE SERIES SPRING LECTURE 
Janet Larson 
Department of English, Rutgers University 
Spirituality and Gender in Victorian Women's Writing 
Thursday, April 18 4:15pm 121 Law Building 
hearing Monday, Army Secre­tary Michael Stone suggested Fort Harrison was marked for closure because it could be 

RYDER TRUCK RENTAL done cheaper than other Army facilities. 



ROADS 
You don't have to graduate 
magna cum laude to show 
everyone how smart you are. Just 
rent from Ryder every time you 
make a move, whether it's 



Loue Mom, Dad, Dauld(191 ), and Janlce(-92) 
COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t.ffX{Il/V11l/v:b $PilCJfYZ1$ 
*1 , 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 
§

5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's .=.. 
1671 Riverside Drive RYDER. 
We're ThereAt EveryTurn~ 
L----------cA_L_L_2-33--2-2-t2____________.11L----M-~_··_·"------------------------------------~ 
1 · · -lu-·. 


Balihuta 
By ALICIA REALE 
News Writer 
1\rsnrw MpatswP Balihuta, a Notn1 Damn doctoral candidatP in f1COI10mies from Uganda, has betln named tlw first recipient of thn l>istinguish11d Graduatn StudPnt /\ward by the Univer­sity's Alumni Association. 
"Tiw award was a pleasant surprise." Balihuta said. Thn award callf'CI for nominations from various graduate faculty, stud11nts and staff. "Because tlw nominations wem open to all graduate and law students and givnn thn largo and divnrsn student population, it was a surpris11 to me that I was nlnctnd." he said. 
The naming of the winnnr of tlw Distinguished Graduatn Student Award follows the same criteria as the Distin­guisiHld Studnnt Award for un­dergraduates, according to Chuck Lnnnon. nxncutive direc­


wins grad 
tor of the Alumni Association. 
The nomination committee, chaired by Chau Ln. assistant vicn presidnnt of the Graduate School, included Sistnr Jean Lenz, assistant vice president of student affairs, and James Powell and Barbara Turpin, as­sodatn dnans of the Graduate School. The committee sifts through the nominations sub­mittml and Sf\lects a winner. 
Balihuta came to the Univer­sity in I986 as a Fulbright scholar. lin narned his master's degrnn in economies in 1 98H and expects to rnceive his doc­torate in May. Htl has served as prcsidnnt of tlw Graduate Student Union since 1988. 
Balihuta is the founder and prnsident of the Notre Dame African Assoeiation, which he organized in 1988. He also served as a member of the board of directors of the African Association of Michi­ana, a group of Africans living, working and studying in the 

award 
Michiana area. 
Last fall, when the Notre Dame African Association or­ganized African Week, Balihuta coordinated the visit of Major General Garba, the secretary of the United Nations General Assembly. In addition, he orga­nized a highly praised art exhi­bition. 
Balihuta contributed to the expansion of computing at Notre Dame as the first man­ager of the LaFortune Com­puter Cluster. He is now a stu­dent consultant at the Informa­tion Hesource Center, which is under the direction of the Ollice Of University Computing. 
The award will be given an­nually to graduate students along with two other alumni awards: the Graduate Student Awards for Excellence in Teaching and the Graduate Student Award for Excellence in Research. This year's recipi­ents of the other two awards have yet to be announced. 

McDonald's begins waste reduction, recycling efforts 
WASHINGTON (API -Mc­Donald's Corp. announced on Tuesday a plan aimed at elimi­nating 80 percent or more of the garbage created by its 8,500 fast-food restaurants across the nation. 
The initiatives include the use of brown bags made of recyded paper, smaller paper napkins, recycling of behind-the-counter cardboard boxes, and the elim­ination of plastic cutlery wrap­pers where allowed by local health codes. And the company is trying out reusable coffee mugs, reusable coffee filters, and pump-style bulk condiment dispensers. 
McDonald's, the world's largest food service organiza­tion, said also it is looking into replacing the plastic forks, spoons and knives with starch­based cutlery that could be composted. It also plans large­scale, soil-enriching composting of food and paper wastes on an experimental basis. 
Parts of the plan have already been implemented, such as the switch last fall from polystyrene sandwich boxes to a thin­layered wrap. Before the changes were begun, McDon­ald's outlets sent 2 million pounds of garbage per day to incinerators and landfills in the United States. 
The initiative was developed in collaboration with the Envi­ronmental Defense Fund, an environmental advocacy group, which set up a joint task force with McDonald's to scrutinize the company's trash. 
Keith Magnuson, McDonald's director of operations devel­opment, said he was "somewhere between surprised and shocked," when he realized how much of the garbage pro­duced at McDonald's restau­rants could be reduced, reused, recycled or composted. 

"It's entirely possible that we can divert more than 80 per­cent of our on-premises solid waste," Magnuson said in an interview. "That came as a great surprise." 
The plan also has environ­mental goals other than waste reduction, such as converting to unbleached brown paper when possible, or to paper bleached with processes that don't use harmful chlorine. 

Robert Langert, director of environmental affairs for the Perseco Co., the exclusive pack­aging purchaser for MeDon­aid's, said it wasn't easy to abandon whitn carryout bags. 
"The decision to go to a brown bag was very dil'ficult." said Langert. one of four com­pany representatives on the task force. "In focus groups we got more negatives than posi­tives," he said, with peopln say­ing the brown bags seemed cheap and not as clean as they expected from McDonald's. 
But once the bags were intro­duced in stores, along with an explanation of the environrnen­tal benefits, "what came out of the real customer opinions was 100 percent positive," Langert said. 
Richard Denison, a senior scientist for EDF, said the Mc­Donald's initiative could set a trend for the food service in­dustry. 
"They have a major role to play. They can serve as a cata­lyst," Denison said. "We felt if we could find solutions that 
would work for McDonald's, it would work for others." 
Magnuson said the company does not know how much its plan will cost, but expeets most of the changes it makes will break even or save money in the long run. 
Terri Capatosto, director of communications, said McDon­ald's had no plans to promote the environmental policy to at­tract customers. 
"We're not necessarily ex­pecting to have a marketing edge," she said. "The majority 
!
of the things in the plan...the customer will never see." 
j 

The task force found that most of McDonald's trash comes ~ from "behind the counter." One 
, example is corrugated shipping , boxes that can be recycled or 1 
replaced by reusable cartons. 
For the remaining amounts of food and paper wastes gen­erated at a McDonald's restau­rant, the company pledged to develop large-scale composting, which would convert the garbage into marketable soil enrichers. 
A pilot test involving nine McDonald's outlets in Maine began last month. 
McDonald's, founded in 1948 in San Bernardino, Calif., has more than 11,000 outlets in 54 countries around the world. In the United States, more than 18 million people visit a McDon­ald's each day. One in every 15 working Americans gets his or her first job at McDonald's. 

JUNIORS 
Help make your Senior year the best! 
Get involved with the Senior Class Government! 
Applications for commissioners and on & off campus reps. available at LaFortune 
---~-~----­
page 6 

Attanasio 
Continued from page 1 
book with the former dean and 
another member of the faculty 
of New York University S_shool 
of Law. 
Attanasio was graduated Phi 
Beta Kappa from the University 
of Virginia in 1976 and earned 
a J.D. from the New York Uni­
versity School of Law in 1979. 
He also holds a diploma from 
the University of Oxford and an 
LL.M. from Yale Law School. 
Attanasio will become the director of the Institute on July 

1. He plans to "consult with people associated with the Institute and members of the wider University community on ways the Institute can best serve the University community." 
He said that he has some personal interest in Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union and structural reform in those places. "This is one of a num­ber of directions in which I would like to see the Institute go," Attanasio said. Another area he would like the Institute to explore is conflict and dis­pute resolution. 
"This is an interdisciplinary enterprise," Attanasio said. "There are many talented peo­ple with many areas of exper­tise." He said he would like to enhance the scholarly compo­nent but not to the exclusion of influencing public policy, a goal he has for the Institute. 
Attanasio outlined some of the many challenges facing the Institute. One of these he called, "the new world order, as yet undefined." Other challenges are not all military related, Attanasio said, citing the environment as an example. 
These problems may lead to opportunities, because they "vividly impress nations with the necessity of cooperation," he said. "As Father Hesburgh says, 'we all breath the same air,'" Attanasio added. 
According to Attanasio, 100 students with undergraduate concentrations and a signifi­cant group of graduate stu­dents are connected to the In­stitute. 
There are also 14 interna­tional peace scholars who study at the Institute and live in a place called the peace house. "They have diverse back­grounds and cultures and ex­change ideas," Attanasio said. 
The Peace Institute "ought to be a place where people of all the various disciplines can come together as faculty and students to exchange ideas in the pursuit of a noble enter­prise, the pursuit of peace," At­tanasio said. 
Gilligan is leaving the direc­
torship and retiring from his 
faculty position as George N. 
Shuster University Professor 
and professor of law. 
"As the Peace Institute's 
founding director, Jack Gilligan 
formulated a vision and trans­
lated it into a vital academic 
program," O'Meara said. "He 
conceived its unique emphasis, 
developed its structure and 
brought together an excellent 
faculty," O'Meara said. 
A native of Cincinnati and a 
1942 Notre Dame graduate, 
Gilligan became nationally 
known for his work in urban 
renewal and neighborhood or­
ganization. He was elected to 
the U.S. House of Representa­
tives in 1964 and in 1970 was 
elected governor of Ohio. Presi­
dent Carter appointed him ad­
ministrator of the Agency for 
International Development in 
1975. 
Gilligan said there are many things that make him proud: "that we have an Institute, that it came into being." 
"This is the most comprehensive program of peace studies anywhere in the world," Gilligan said. "It is organized around 20 faculty fellows." 
"There is a sliding group of 19-20 faculty fellows not com­pensated; they do it because of their interest in the program," Gilligan said. "It is unlike any­thing in the University." 
Gilligan said he is proud of the quality of the students, especially in the graduate pro­gram and the international scholars. "You could write a small book on the qualifications of these students," he said. 
"The key question is whether the University will give adequate financial support to the development of the program," Gilligan said. "The main source of revenue now is a three year grant." 

"The University gives tuition waivers at the graduate level, but other than that there is no direct University support," Gilligan added. 
Attanasio said that he is "privileged to follow after Gov. Gilligan. He gave the Institute a magnificent start, tremendous leadership and something which we can build on." 
Gilligan said that Attanasio is "very bright, very able,'' and that he will be a "marvelous di­rector." 
-IUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIHUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIII. SUMMER STORAGE FOR STUDENTS 
High $t. $torage -1212 High St. -288-3575 
• LULf·AA 

The Observer 

Archbishop of Durban, Republic of South America, Denis Hurley speaks at a symposium on the second day of "One Hundred Years of Catholic Social Thought." He discussed the Church's role in the quest for freedom throughout the world. 
Lean, epic filmmaker, dies 
NEW YORK (AP) -When film students, critics, historians and other buffs are asked to list the best movies ever made, 'David Lean's 'Lawrence of Arabia" appears with well-deserved frequency. 
It was indeed the singular masterpiece in the illustrious career of the British filmmaker, who died Tuesday at age 83. 
Compared to other leaders in the movie industry, his career outpouring may be considered by some to be well, lean -he made only 16 movies. But all are rare and exquisite jewels, each in its own special way. 
'From the lovely "Brief En­counter," to the the heroic "The Bridge on the River Kwai," or the passionate "Doctor Zhivago," Lean's fa­vorite of his own movies was "Lawrence of Arabia." "His legacy is that he's the only filmmaker to make intelligent epics, and I really think our greatest narrative filmmaker," his biographer, Stephen Silver­man, said Tuesday. 
"He had been in declining health since returning home to England after the 1989 re-re­lease of 'Lawrence of Arabia,"' Silverman said. 
Lean had a keen eye for detail and strove for cultural accu­racy. 

--·-------------......--------~ 
Wednesday, April 17, 1991 



Hurley 
Continued from page 1 
during the early 1900s when the lay apostolate realized that it was not just an extension of the hierarchy, but that it had its own job to do. 
Hurley said this job, which flows from baptism and is more important than the ordained ministry, was emphasized as "consecrating the world" and "promoting the full value of freedom as an integral part of social doctrine." 
Today it is the Latin Ameri­can Church which has been leading the world through its liberation theology and its Christian base communities, according to Hurley. 
It is this Latin American ex­perience that molds a lesson for the rest of the world. "It (the lesson) is about freedom, that most precious of human attributes, often suppressed and easily abused,'' said Hurley. 
"Freedom and rights go hand in hand," he added. "In a way the greatest human right is freedom to serve others." 
In serving others, we are so­cial beings and cannot survive outside society, said Hurley. Without this intense practice of community, Catholic public opinion cannot be created and maintained. 
It took the Catholic Church a long time to come to terms with the modern understanding of freedom and its expression in political democracy, he added. 
"The theology of religious freedom took longer. The Catholic Church saw itself and still sees itself as the true Church of Christ." 
Today, however, the Church has relinquished all inhibitions about promoting the full value of freedom as an integral part of social doctrine. 
The symposium was held at the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. 

The Center for Civil and Human Rights and The Center for Social Concerns presents 
.. 
I 

r 
Executive Director of Minnesota Lawyers International Human Rights Committee 
"International Human Rights Fact-Finding: Moral Pressure, Mediation or Meddling?" 
The Observer page 7 
Japanese host Soviets to end mutual animosity 

Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev (left) and his wife Raise, are greeted by Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Nakayama Tuesday. Gorbechev, the first Soviet leader to visit Japan, will spend four days in a series of talks. 
TRADE IN YOUR CAP AND GOWN AT JORDAN'S AUTOMALL 

FOR SOME DRIVING GLOVES 
Ford Credit puts qualified college graduates in the fast lane with the Fo~d/Mercury College . Graduate Purchase Program. Jordan's Automall can arrange special financmg through Ford Credtt and $500 cash back from Ford Motor Company. 
Here's all you have to do to qualify: graduate with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between October I, 1989 and December 31, 1991; have verifiable employment beginning within 120 days of vehicle purchase; have a salary sufficient to cover living expenses as well as a car payment.. Although a prior credit history isn't necessary, if you have one, it must be satisfactory to Ford Credtt. 
So get a compartment for your driving gloves. Visit Jordan's Automall and take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program. 
FORD CREDIT GETS YOU GOING. 


JORDAN'S 
609 E. Jefferson at Cedar, Mishawaka 259-1981 Toll-Free 1-800-837-1981



D DO
Hours: M, Tu, Th 8-9; W, F, Sa 8-6 
t $ ?~;;r;;v c 1991~8Fl9E(t) 1991~11~9E(i)IOS(B) 
ll!!llt:J~~:..-il\7-J~--I'Ii--·><1'7'5?-il\7-J~(Washtngton D.C.) .1891-~Bachelor >:<J:O)'l'fl'l'!i 1992!1'12Fl*1:'1::-•IJIJ~• .1891-c:Bachelor >:<J:O)'l'1f!'!i 1993ll'6Fl;l;"CJ;: Q~lll !JI.;z,">O)Jiii"'':E ij~jl!§;'.;z,">O)J!il'l':E 
IIU4--·IJIJ· 11m 

Jiil'l''tlllilllk!INin<Jt.>:I<:•·Illl~~50lt-·1JO:I<:. llil'l':Eillillll~lllolln<Jt.>:I<:M·Ilii~I!<J40U 1991lf7Fl26811llWIII~MIJJJt!tt~J'il<l:lll91-.JJO. -·:!!:ill. 5001--J~;l;"C'll!.>iiii!.Y.l!. ~B*~~~MIJJJt!tt~J'i~JJJ~·JJO~t!tt~~a;J;y. (11iiO)~Io!lll'~·I;:JliiiO£Y.~?;--.tJ'/1):,-ftllillil ,1891-.bDiil500i"J~~ ~. JJJI"l.bDiiiB.i$.JJJI"l1:'triJ•"" t.:. ~1aG.>9£ttA,.) 
ll'>M • .ff2}jfiJIJe "C!II:. :IU8J>l!:, il!O, 1:? $:7"-li"ill!l,l~ L:'i'MJihO)J'lliiMIJJJB f;:fJ•fJ•tJ S JI'JJJI"l.bO~ t! tt ~ ~81JeY0)~;:::7~Ct.:.t!L~ (-~O)~MR~-~ 11110 ~y .~?;--, tJ'.I 1) :.-1tllill<l~1al;:t.> O;J;ttA,.) 
1991lf5Fli3B:I'll-ll,;.lltiJB -1991lf9Fli3B~ 
Your lastchance 
for extracredit 

beforegraduation 

All you have to do is take a field trip to our dealership and show us your student ID., driver's license and proof of a 1ob aJ;er graduarion Chances are, you'll be eligible for up to 60 monthS financing on any new Nissan~with no money down and no payments for 90 days. , 
Now, this extra credit carit improve your grades. But tt can certainlyget you out of school in a hurry 
No monevdown. No payments for 90 days.
. 

_,!f~ ~• 
~---Ge& 

ll.Libh*i'tll. lll*'•il~t!Tt.l:.,t;-t1'.1JiliJ!'(7)il~ HILl"f,ii~JII)I:~"f?-·>~t::·•}.,el\t.i:l•ll::·;t."f<'l•o '1'1":.-t!Mi/~lllft1'~11t,o\,(7)1',0:,b•l:lfl::'T>J1'<'c'". 
• Iu IJJOiHM:OltiJ!Iilill. )i(/ lld!ilill!:l'CT>ilillltW IUlLlt. 
o .ll!i11>1llf' L..6h, 11:1~1!,1"-<:llll"f~lllllll ·~1:>1t!HieH·. 
l!*iUHt1!JI4-t-(JI(m;;1s:tt>!llil!lltti1.»81l 
!ft!l!r 1t !I·Hill, .mllll·l:<uh•tl 

TEL.1-800-537-2186i!<1::1<1:03-3234-5071 
('!'89:00AM-5:JOPM 8*11111111) "t!Jv::ft-1'-U.S.A. New York Office !Hiii/UJII TEL.1-800-344-7241 i!<1::1<1:212-986-5520 
TOKYO (AP) -Soviet Presi­dent Mikhail Gorbachev devoted his first day in Japan on Tuesday to chipping away at the mutual animosity that has kept Tokyo from sharing its im­mense wealth with its impover­ished neighbor. 
Briefly leaving behind eco­nomic and political woes at home, Gorbachev set out to woo the Japanese as he has done with Americans and Europeans. He is the first Soviet leader to travel to Japan. 
He spent the day meeting with Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, cheerfully chatting with Emperor Akihito and shaking hands with many Tokyo resi­dents. 
But a more serious tone is expected Wednesday in Gor­bachev's parliamentary ad­dress. According to an advance text of the speech, Gorbachev will warn Japanese lawmakers that his nation needs help to 
avert turmoil and  a  return to  
dictatorship.  
The  text  also  contained  

promises to reduce the Soviet military presence in the region and suggests multilateral naval reductions. 
"If we don't halt the disinte­gration of the state -of the economy, the law and relations between republics; if we don't support the new social pro­cesses in a peaceful framework -the country could fall into the chaos that gives birth to dictatorship," Gorbachev says in the text. 
"Despair and hopelessness are a serious threat to the progress of civilization. There­fore, advanced countries help themselves by helping others." 
Gorbachev also was report­edly planning to present busi­ness leaders with several trade proposals, including bartering Soviet fuel and raw materials for Japanese equipment to pro­duce consumer goods, and re­vival of a long-stalled $2.5 bil­lion oil project on Sakhalin, a Soviet island north of Japan. 
"It is time to do everything so that our peoples...will never again drift into the disaster of enmity," Gorbachev said at a nationally televised court ban­quet Tuesday night. "On the threshold of a new century and millennium, we must take from the past only that which brings us together and enriches both sides." 
He was referring to the huge task of healing the wounds left from World War II, when the Soviets seized four islands off Japan's northern coast and tens of thousands of Japanese prisoners of war died in Si­berian camps. 
In his banquet toast, Gor­bachev offered condolences to the families of the Japanese prisoners who perished, but stopped short of a formal apology. IIe is expected to give the Japanese a list of the dead before he leaves Friday. 
That follows the tone of rec­onciliation he set Monday in the Siberian city of Khabarovsk, where he visited the graves of Japanese who died while being held prisoner by the Soviel'>. 
The territorial dispute re­mains a formidable obstacle. Japan demands return of all four islands -known to Soviets as the Kuril Islands and to Japanese as the Northern Ter­ritories -before it will sign a treaty formally ending World War II hostilities with the Sovi­ets, thereby clearing the way for aid. 
Gorbachev faces strong op­position at home to any territo­rial concessions. 
Half of his three-hour summit meeting with Kaifu. which was described by a Japanese official as a "frank exchange of views," was devoted to the dispute, and the leaders agreed not to divulge any details until after further talks. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Japanese economic aid was not discussed. 
In the meeting, Gorbachev said Soviet relations were ad­vancing with nations through­out the West and that bilateral ties with Tokyo "must be im­proved substantially," another Japanese official said. The offi­cial also spoke on condition of anonymity. 
In some areas, Soviet­Japanese relations are frozen and in other areas "life can hardly be seen," Gorbachev spokesman Viltaly lgnatenko quoted the Soviet leader as saying. 
An invitation from Gorbaehev for Kaifu to visit Moscow was immediately accepted, and the two leaders were shown fre­quently on television smiling, shaking hands and sharing laughs. 
2500 W. Lexington Ave. 

15 minutes from campus 
"On the Bypass at 3 points" 

Call Tom Naquin, N.D. Oass of 76 
ELKART 
toll free 674-6059 

Tape of alleged Mafia inductions to be used in trial 
BOSTON (AP) -A secretly recorded tape of an alleged Mafia induction ceremony ~an be used as crucial evidence against purported crime boss Raymond Patriarca and six of his lieutenants, a federal judge ruled Tuesday. 
The tape is the first of an al­leged mob initiation. On it, a convicted killer and three other men are heard allegedly swear­ing allegiance to the Mafia with blood drawn from their trigger fingers and pledging to murder any person who could pose a threat, including their own rel­atives. 
U.S. District Judge Mark Wolf, who ruled the tape could be admitted into evidence, ac-
r 
r 
r 
Police cover gunman
r 
knowledged its importance to the case. 
"Absent the evidence inter­cepted {by a hidden micro­phone), there may not be a prosecutable case against some of the defendants, including Raymond Patriarca, the alleged 'boss' of the Patriarca family," Wolf said. 
Patriarca's lawyer said he may ask the judge to reconsider the decision. 
The ruling also sets a prece­dent that could affect the Hart­ford. Conn., trial of nine other men reputed to be linked to Pa­triarca. Their attorneys have raised similar objections to the secret tape. Jury selection in the case begins this week. U.S. District Judge Alan Nevas also was considering whether to al­low the tapes into evidence. 
Procedural motions are still being heard in Patriarca's case and no trial date has been set. 
Seventeen Mafia members from Connecticut, Rhode Island and ·Massachusetts attended the supposed induction ceremony in October 1989 at a home in suburban Medford, the government says. 
"I enter alive into this orga­nization and leave it dead," each inductee swore in a cere­mony spoken mostly in Italian, the FBI said. 
Defense attorneys argued that when prosecutor Diane Kottmyer got a judge's autho­rization to secretly bug the house, she did so without re-
AP Photo 


r 
Pocahontas, Ariz. police dispatcher Kevin Faust holds a gun on Dwight Sullinger. Sullinger shot Police 
r 
Officer Scotty Bennett, and then shot himself twice in the face. 
r 
r 
I r 
The NOTRE DAME AFRICAN 
r 
STUDENTS ASSOCIATION 
~ 
Presents

~ 
f!L:J1\!Cf!L g{J(j:J{q 
A SALUTE TO WOMEN OF THE WORLD
r 
Featuring

'r 
r 
f 
f 
f 
r 
VINIE BURROWS in "Sister! Sister!" 
& 

ASPECIAL AfRICAN DINNER with AfRICAN & AFRO-CARIBBEAN MUSIC 
Saturday April 20, 1991, 6:30 pm to 1:00 am STEPAN CENTER 
$ 5:00 PER PERSON $ 3:00 STUDENTS 

Co·sf""'S"'S: 0/fia of olit 'l'rrnJas<, I& Minori<y Slwknl .:vfairs, I& fjrrJ4ual< S1wkn1 'Union, olit lnWJUIIimull Slwknl .:vfairs ani I& J!fri=t & J!fri=t·?.mtrium SIUJ!ks Propam 

vealing information about the imminent initiation. 
The lawyers argued that the Fourth Amendment protects the rights of citizens to associate without government inter­ference. 
Wolf criticized Kottmyer for the lapse, but said that was not enough to force suppression of the tapes. He said permission for the bugs probably would have been given even if Kottmyer's knowledge of the ceremony was disclosed. 
Patriarca's lawyer, Martin 

Weinberg, said he planned to review the judge's 127-page de­cision "and make a determina­tion whether to move for re­consideration." 
Kottmyer said the court pro­hibited her from commenting on any aspect of the case. 
The FBI learned in 1989 that four new members were to be inducted into the alleged Patri­arca family, including Vincent Federico, then serving a sen­tence for murder in a Mas­sachusetts prison. 
ATTENTION -Student Summer Storage 


Reserve Your Space Now! 

NQ Administration Fee 
NQ Deposits 
NQ Increased Rents for Students 
NQ Worries about Break­Ins While on Vacations 
80·90 Toll l(oa,U 
.YE.S...Security System YES On Site Manager YES Free Locks for 
Students YES Low Prices .YES Near Notre Dame, 
New, and Spacious 
North Side of Douglrie Ad. Bet;w~een Grape Rd. Mid St. Rd. 23 




~Ml~~~ut~~ 
Wednesday, April 17th 7:30p.m. 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall Especially important for Seniors-to-be 
Any Questions Call Aaron X3264 

'W 

.,.. .;t
. 
·.. ,.· .. 
. 
AP Photo

Powell throws out first pitch 
General Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, throws out the first ball at the Yankees' home-opening game against the Chicago White Sox on Monday. 

1n



Famine continues • Africa 
The tragedy in many parts of declined for months to invite 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) -Africa "is as compelling as the the foreign aid believed neces-Drought threatens unprece-plight of the Kurds," he said. sary. dented numbers of Africans but donors have provided only Only in mid-February, six with starvation this year, and about one-fifth of the food his months after the annual rains experts fear civil wars and agency needs to feed the failed to arrive, did it promise global indifference will deny Africans. conditions that allow donors to help to millions. Relief officials say two con-contribute food at reasonable 
More than 24 million people secutive years of crop failure in cost with assurance it will reach are at risk from the continent's the Horn of Africa have caused its goals. eastern Horn, south to Angola a food shortage rivaling the one People have begun dying in and Mozambique and west to responsible for the great famine the nation's desert-like north, Liberia, according to the U.N. that killed an estimated 1 and "children under 3 do not World Food Program. The million Ethiopians in 1984-85. exist" in the Tokar plains on the agency says food also is needed That tragedy caught the Red Sea, one aid worker said. for 8 million people displaced world by surprise, but relief To the west, in northern Ko­by wars. agencies had months of warn-rdofan province, 240 deaths a 
Donors have pledged little ing about the one now unfold-month are being reported in the more than half the 4.2 million ing. town of Sodiri alone, said Paul tons of food needed and civil Willard Pearson, the U.S. Mitchell of the U.N. World Food wars have halted or slowed re-Agency for International Devel-Program. lief efforts in the countries most opment representative in Relief workers fear their de­severely affected. Ethiopia, said the greatest layed efforts may come too late 
Many aid experts also believe problem this time is "the civil to save tens of thousands of compelling events elsewhere wars hindering efforts to get people who have left their have diverted the world atten-relief under way." homes in search of food. tion that led to the Live-Aid Countries most affected by the Supplies continue trickling concert for famine relief in current drought are divided by into southern Sudan despite pe­1985. civil war, as in Sudan, Ethiopia, riodic orders from Khartoum 
"Between the Gulf War, Angola and Mozambique, or temporarily halting flights and changes in Eastern Europe, in-suffered a disintegration of food convoys from neighboring stability in the Soviet Union ... if government through anarchy Kenya. About 90 percent of the it was ever hard to keep a focus and bloodshed, as in Liberia southern countryside is in the on the Mozambiques of the and Somalia. hands of rebels fighting an 8­world, it's really hard to do that "Civil war and conflict has year-old war for greater au­now," said Roger Winter of the become the defining paradigm tonomy and economic develop-
U.S. Committee for Refugees. of food shortages in Africa," ment. 
Mahaman Balla, senior liaison Pearson said. Experts feel the south will officer of the World Food In the greatest danger are up escape a recurrence of 1988, Program in New York, said: to 11 million people in Sudan. when an estimated 250,000 "U.N. agencies tend to fly Its Islamic fundamentalist gov-people died, but say barely 10 wherever the wind is blowing. ernment, distrustful of the percent of the 300,000 tons of The wind is blowing now to-Western countries that run the the food necessary has been ward Kurdistan." big relief programs in Africa, pledged. 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF BA 391 03 2223 ENGL 425 01 2807 LAW 633 01 1295 PHIL 257 01 3335 
7:00 P.M. 4/16/91 BA 490 05 0515 ENGL 435 01 2812 LAW 695 01 1300 PHIL 261 01 1674 BA 490 06 0516 ENGL 435A 01 
2813 LAW 695 02 1301 PHIL 264 01 2983 
BIOS 304L 01 0528 ENGL 475A 01 2819
ACCT 231 01 0265 LAW 695 03 1302 PHIL 268 01 1676 ACCT 231 04 0268 BIOS 341 01 0530 ENGL 488Z 01 2823 LAW 695 04 1303 PHIL 268 02 1677 ACCT 231 05 0269 CAPP 243 01 0608 ENGL 491 01 2824 LAW 695 05 1304 PHYS 221L 04 1711 ACCT 231 09 0273 CAPP 331 01 3315 ENGL 494 01 2825 LAW 695 06 3356 PHYS 222L 02 3151 ACCT 231 10 0274 CAPP 361 01 0612 ENGL 4958 01 2826 MARK 231 02 1307 PHYS 331L 01 1725 ACCT 231 11 0275 CHEG 459 02 0650 FIN 360 01 1055 MARK 231 03 1308 PLS 442 02 1829 ACCT 231 15 0279 CHEM 119L 01 2429 FIN 360 02 1056 MARK 231 04 1309 PSY 250 01 1836 ACCT 231 16 0280 CHEM 119L 02 2431 FIN 360 03 1057 MARK 231 05 1310 PSY 341 03 2250 
ACCT 231 CLAS 305 01 2445 FIN 360 04 1058
17 0281 MARK 231 06 1311 PSY 341T 03 1893 ACCT 231 18 0282 CLAS 328 01 2699 FIN 360 05 1060 MARK 231 07 1312 PSY 389 01 2352 ACCT 334 02 0286 COTH 215 01 0383 FIN 360 06 1061 MARK 231 08 1313 PSY 454 01 3004 
COTH 351 01 3184 FIN 361 01 1062
ACCT 334 03 0287 MARK 350 02 1316 PSY 481 01 3006 ACCT COTH 378 01 2460 FIN 361 02 1063
334 04 0288 MARK 350 03 3164 ROFR 310 01 2037 ACCT 334 05 0289 COTH 461 01 0739 FIN 361 06 1067 MARK 370 02 1318 ROFR 465 01 3015 ACCT 334 06 1477 COTH 478 01 3187 FIN 361 07 1068 MARK 492 01 2520 ROIT 101 03 2041 
ECON 302 01 0794 FIN 376 01 1072
ACCT 371 02 0291 MATH 325 01 1384 ROSP 103 04 2061 
ACCT ECON 303L 02 3189 FIN 376 03 1074 ROSP 103
371 05 0294 MATH 325 02 1385 05 2062 ACCT 371 06 0295 ECON 315 01 2578 FIN 376 04 1075 MATH 335 01 1386 ROSP 103 06 2063 ECON 350 01 0797 FIN 380 02
ACCT 372 01 0296 1077 MGT 231 01 1473 ROSP 237 01 3021 ACCT 475 03 0301 ECON 421 01 0799 FIN 380 03 1078 MGT 231 02 1474 ROSP 328 01 2079 ACCT 475 04 0302 ECON 434 01 3192 FIN 462 01 1080 MGT 231 03 1476 soc 220 01 2097 ACCT 476 02 2371 ECON 443 01 0800 FIN 473 01 1084 MGT 231 04 1478 soc 232 01 2538 
ECON 484 01 2470 FIN 478 01 1085
ACCT 476 06 0219 MGT 231 05 1479 soc 260 01 3029 ACCT 479 01 0307 EE 342L 01 0846 GOVT 340 01 1161 MGT 231 08 1482 soc 313 01 3031 AERO 444L 02 0317 EE 342L 02 0847 GOVT 340 02 1162 MI 308 01 2501 soc 314 01 3361 
EE 342L 04 3112 GOVT 342 01 1165
AERO 444L 03 0318 MI 432A 01 2956 soc 332 01 3302 EE 344T 01 0850 GOVT 342T 01 2365
AERO 444L 04 0319 MI 435A 01 2942 soc 342 01 2540 AERO 446L 02 0323 EE 344T 02 0851 GOVT 342T 02 2366 MSA 544 01 3176 soc 374 01 3032 AERO 446L 04 0325 EE 347 01 0853 GOVT 342T 03 2367 MUS 220 01 2959 soc 401 01 3033 AFAM 260 01 3263 EE 348T 02 2171 GOVT 342T 04 2368 MUS 220 02 2960 STV 247 01 2591 
EE 361 02 0858 GOVT 342T 06 3296
AFAM 368 01 3265 MUS 221 01 2122 STV 257 01 3336 AFAM 371 01 3273 EE 361L 02 0860 GOVT 343T 01 2853 MUS 223 01 2961 STV 354 01 3049 AFAM 374 01 3266 EE 361L 03 0861 GOVT 343T 04 2856 MUS 226 01 1557 STV 454 01 2397 
ENGL 300A 01 2771 GOVT 343T
AFAM 452 01 3275 05 2857 NSCI 311L 01 1621 THEO 242 01 3061 AFAM 455 01 3269 ENGL 301A 01 1011 GOVT 343T 06 2858 PHIL 220 01 2976 THEO 245 01 3062 AMST ENGL 317C 01 2779 GOVT 401 01 2851 THEO 246 01
360 01 3383 PHIL 221 01 1667 0153 ANTH 375 01 2738 ENGL 317T 03 2782 GOVT 404 01 2863 PHIL 222 01 1669 THEO 247 01 3063 ENGL 318T 02 2791 GOVT 426 01
ANTH 444 01 2390 2665 PHIL 222 02 2977 THEO 250 01 0102 
ENGL 319A 01 1018 GOVT 447 01 2495
ANTH 450 01 2736 PHIL 225 01 2525 THEO 251 01 0082 ANTH 454 01 2396 ENGL 319A 02 1019 GOVT 472 01 2870 PHIL 231 01 2980 THEO 251 02 0081 ARHI 397 01 2739 ENGL 328A 01 2794 GSC 220 01 3221 PHIL 232 01 2528 THEO 253 01 0148 
ENGL 340 GSC
ARST 133S 01 0434 01 3317 328 01 2700 PHIL 235 01 1671 THEO 255 01 3323 BA 362 01 0504 ENGL 3848 01 2796 GSC 4128 01 3223 PHIL 239 02 1029 THEO 260 01 0147 BA 363 01 0505 ENGL 399A 01 2567 GSC 430 01 3218 PHIL 242 01 3301 THEO 261 01 0146 
BA 363 02 0506 ENGL 414Z 01 2801 GSC 480Z 01 3227 PHIL 244 01 2530 THEO 262 01 2358 BA 363 03 0507 ENGL 415 01 2596 HIST 392 01 2911 PHIL 246 01 1672 THEO 265 01 0145 BA 363 04 0508 ENGL 415C 01 2802 HIST 394 01 1203 PHIL 246 02 1673 THEO 281 01 2547 
ENGL 416E 01 2803 IIPS 310 01 3236
BA 363 05 0856 PHIL 246 03 2981 THEO 287 01 3065 BA ENGL 416F 01 2804 LAW 631A 01 1286
363 06 3154 PHIL 247 01 2593 BA 391 01 0212 ENGL 416Z 01 2805 LAW 6318 01 1287 PHIL 250 01 2982 ENGL 418C LAW
BA 391 02 0211 01 2806 6310 01 1289 PHIL 253 01 2531 
--~~-~---------~-­
-----~ -----­
Wednesday, April 17, 1991

page 10 The Observer 

I I I I 
I I I I I 
I I




or 
I 
P av.
I J 
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 

I I I I

MacExpo I 
I 

Wednesday, April17 7:00pm -9:00 pm Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center 
Come hear Anna Rae, CPA, ofthe I 
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District ofGreater Chicago describe how the Macintosh maximized herpotential. Business majors, Mac does work in the business world-we'll show you how. 
Refreshments and door prizes I will be provided. 



Macjam 
Thursday, April 18 4:00pm -6:00pm Fieldhouse Mall 
You read the ads, you saw the Mystery Mac­Now we're giving it away! DRAWING FOR THE FREE MAC SF/301 Help us celebrate Macintosh, music provided by Tbe Generics. 
Entrants must be present to win. Ifyou registered, BE THERE or BE SORRY! 
=H I L f Y 

G H 0 U P 

.Viewpoint
Wednesday, April17, 1991 page 11 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edllor.................... John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willett Controller..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Digger leaves behind legacy of highlights, high standards 
After 20 years, Digger Phelps, the man who put Notre Dame basketball on the map is gone. 
Digger guided the Fighting Irish basketball program through a transitional period in college athletics. Phelps, who wrote a letter to then-Irish football coach Ara Parseghian relating his dream to coach at Notre Dame, endured a rough first year with the Irish. The years from then on, however, were filled with successes and milestones. In his second season, Notre Dame reached the NIT semifinals. Five years later the Irish advanced all the way to the Final Four, only to fall to Duke when Duck Editor's note: The following will his co-signers to my Feb. 5 Bartky were concerned with 
Williams' 12-foot jumper rimmed out as time expired. be the last response published letter ignored the issues I raised ideas, not gender. I recall that regarding this specific debate. and, instead, perpetrated an ad Gaffney fussed when the same
Memories of his score-long tenure are plentiful, most 
hominem attack on my mistake was made by an earlier
notable of which are a string of stunning upsets. The 
Dear Editor: academic responsibility, as letter writer. Why the obsession green uniforms worn by Dan Devine's Irish football team I will be relatively brief. I will Professors Brooks and Bartky with making gender an issue? in its comeback over Southern Cal were Digger's idea, as not append seven signatures to recently stated. Nevertheless, I do not wish to be gender­was wearing fluorescent green jerseys in this year's enhance my credibility. I will in his recent letter, Gaffney categorized in a genderless is­
imagine that Patrick D. Gaffney clearly felt the pinch of what he sue. I do not need to be told to
Syracuse game (the jerseys were a gift from the 
may find yet another way to perceived to be an ad hominem listen carefully and prudently to
manufacturer). Jubilant alumni still recount how Digger's 
come at my minority status. I attack on himself. If gender has others as though I were a child pep rally speech inspired fans to chant "29 and 1" will respond to his epistles of any relevance at all, it may be with no sense of the gravity of disrupting a 29-0 San Francisco team visiting the JACC in Feb. 12 and April 3, first and that, when a "respected" female the moment. I would ask March of 1977. Notre Dame won that game-the last of foremost, as a human being professor is so attacked, no Gaffney, et. a!. : Would you not 
deeply and profoundly con­damage has been done. For listen carefully and act pru­
the season-and advanced to the NCAA Tournament. 
cerned with 1) the survival of Gaffney, a male, to feel he has dently if six million of your
Memories aside, Phelps was a breath of fresh air, a 
the State of Israel, the home­suffered the same attack is an­people had been "exterminated" 
flamboyant yet serious coach who strived to actualize the land for a people who have suf­other story. in recent history? Notre Dame ideals of academics before athletics, as is fered more prolonged persecu­In fact, Gaffney's idea that What passion might you feel evidenced by the perfect graduation rate of his players. tion and homelessness than any there is some connection be­for the constantly threatened other people in world history, tween gender (specifically, The homeland of a people who, for
Phelps was not only good for Notre Dame, he was good 
and 2) rising anti-Semitism in Year of the Woman) and the centuries, had no safe place in
for college basketball. He was a clean coach with a high 
the United States which the crisis in the Mideast raises the world? Would you not al­profile, a man who was at the same time downhome and Anti-Defamation League at­many questions. He notes that ways respond thoughtfully if sophisticated, classy and wild. One need only think of the tributes largely to pro­two women, Ghada Taihami and each day meant surmounting tailored suits-1970s leisure-style or Armani-green Palestinian activity and the I, "have occasioned lively prejudice and surviving, finally 
Persian Gulf War. debate." Why is our gender in an academic community
carnations, exotic print ties and smile-filled 
That I am a female is irrele­noteworthy? Does this imply where colleagues would gang
advertisements to realize that Digger, the coach and the 
vant to my opinions on the wonder that female opinion up and denounce you as irre­person, was truly one of a very special kind. Mideast, Kahlil Azar's com­could generate thought? What sponsible simply because your Even when announcing his resignation, Digger ments at a January teach-in, is the possible connection be­opinion differs from theirs? maintained his pixie-like wit and smile, joking and anti-Semitic rhetoric (I am tween gender and the Arab­I have prudently waited two aware that Azar is a Semite, but Israeli conflict? months to respond. I doubt if
nonchalantly with reporters. Digger, the brash and vocal 
any English dictionary will Gaffney implies sexism on the Gaffney will contemplate the si­
New Yorker, has taken up oil painting and plans to spend 
reveal that anti-Semitism refers part of Brooks and Bartky for a tuation as long.
time with his familv, who he praised for their 20 years of to prejudice toward, discrimi­statement they made (March 8) support. Furthermore, he has left the game and school he nation against, and persecution which he reads as Carla Johnson loves at the time of his choosing and on his own terms. of Jews). misidentification of Talhami as Saint Mary's College 
The response by Gaffney and male. Clearly, Brooks and AprilS, 1991
One cannot help but wish him the best. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
DOONESBURV QUOTE OF THE DAY 

FOR IN~AN~t:itVCN MON7HS A6q I PRO!!t4m-YN~VtRUJa.JW HAV/3 /rftNTIONW fW/NtR.WIIM~Y I OfP!3NSIV8 I f!NV IT THAT 
YOU'Re 01&a</NG OlfT MY 80{) RJ6HT NOW' 
I ~ 
'The public hungers to see talented young people kill themselves.' 
Paul Simon 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,JN 46556 


, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,.. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
~ ~ 
f 
~ 
Editor's note: The following is part two ofa two part column. 
The "academic community," external as well as internal, long ago assumed the authori­tative role formerly played by the teaching Church in the life of Notre Dame. At the Land O'Lakes conference in 1967, the presidents of the leading Catholic universities, including Notre Dame, declared that, "To perform its teaching and re­search functions effectively, the Catholic university must have a true autonomy and academic freedom in the face of authority of whatever kind, lay or cleri­cal, external to the academic community itself." The Land 0' Lakes concept tends predictably toward an institutional renun­ciation of the duty to affirm re­ligious truth. 
Thus, in the fall of 1989, Notre Dame sponsored a public showing of a blasphemy of Christ, in the film "The Last Temptation of Christ." That event remains crucial in the history of Notre Dame. The University decided there that the First and Second Com­mandments were superseded by the authority of the secular establishment. As Professor Dean Porter. Director of the Snite Museum, said, "when (the museum) was built nine years ago, we decided if a film could be seen at the Museum of Modern Art, it could be seen here" (South Bend Tribune, Sept. 29, 1989, p. Cl, col. 1). 
The X-rated "Desperate Living" and "The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover" have since been shown at the Snite. The latter classic, origi­nally rated X, was released un­rated and helped precipitate the new NC-17 rating system. It was described by critic Michael Medved as a "putrid, pointless, and pretentious piece of filth." However, if the University is so unsure of itself that it cannot draw the line short of sponsor­ing a blasphemy of Christ Himself, X-rated films are small change; those latter showings generated no protest. To spon­sor such films is the politically correct thing to do, especially at a university in danger of being considered narrow-minded because it is Catholic. 
A serio-comic example of Notre Dame's tendency to en­dorse almost anything that is "politically correct" is the Academic Council's recent pre­scription for gender inclusive language. Only in the eighth decade of the twentieth century did academics ever discover that such words as "he," "man," and "mankind" caused women to feel inferior. Now, Dean Eileen Kolman of the Freshman Year of Studies believes "it would be an absolute shame if any student leaves Notre Dame in 1991 without knowing that exclusive language is simply no longer acceptable" (The Observer, March 7, 1991). 
More likely, Notre Dame graduates (will they have "bachelor's" degrees?) will dis­cover in the world outside academe a less than unlimited tolerance for the neologisms and ambiguities generated by the ideological corruption of language. Meanwhile, unfortu­nately, linguistic vandals will mutilate some treasures of English literature, including the Bible. Thus, "An Inclusive Lectionary," produced by the National Council of Churches, describes God as "the motherly father of the Church who comes forth" and has St. John, in 3:16, tell us, "For God so loved the 
Guest Columnist 
world that God gave God's only Child, that whoever believes in that Child should not perish but have eternal life." 
When the Facuity Senate be­stirred itself to pass the gender resolution, Professor Paul Conway, chairman of the Senate, said, "We're 10-15 years behind the others [other universities] in making this resolution" (The Observer, Feb. 6, 1991). What next? And will we ever catch up? While the gender policy represents a mi­nor and probably transitory feminoid triumph, it does mani­fest the other-directed bent of an institution unsure of its her­itage and beliefs. 
The pursuit of PC can some­times take priority even over the health of students. An ex­ample is the muted policy of the University on homosexual activ­ity. The University commend­ably refuses to officially recog­nize homosexual groups on campus. The University also rightly emphasizes that the ob­jective wrongness of homosex­ual activity does not warrant unjust discrimination against persons who may have homo­sexual tendencies. Nor does the objective wrongness of the act confer a license to judge the subjective culpability of anyone. 
Homosexual activity, however, is the main factor in the onset of AIDS. One could reasonably think that if the University is going to say anything to its students on the homosexual issue, it ought to include a demand that homosexuals refrain from the objectively wrong behavior which is a men­ace to themselves and poten­tially to the health of the com­munity. I have yet to see any such public insistence from any office of the University. 
See, for example, the state­ments of Campus Ministry and of 39 members of the Notre Dame community on National Coming Out Day (The Observer, Oct. 11, 1990). Justice to the homosexuals as well as to the rest of the community requires an insistence on the duty to re­frain from homosexual activity. Political correctness demands instead an emphasis on the evil of homophobia and on the duty of others to exercise tolerance and compassion. And that is predominantly what we hear on the subject. 
The two "Research Uni­versity" signs can be fairly regarded as a public acknowl­edgment of the other-directed pursuit of PC which has been on the Notre Dame agenda for decades. The research preoccu­pation and other PC examples arise from good faith judgments made by administrators and others who act in what they see as the best interest of Notre Dame. My criticism is of policies, not persons. 
We ought to ask, however, where this PC trend is leading us in educational and spiritual as well as financial terms. We have lost sight of some basic realities: tl1at undergraduate education is entitled to the pri­mary focus at Notre Dame; that research is collateral, i.e., that Notre Dame exists mainly for the benefit of its students rather than of the government, industry, foundations or the publishing professors; that graduate education and atten­dant research are important to Notre Dame but that there, too, the interests of the students are paramount; that the Catholic character of Notre Dame entails a responsibility to help its stu­dents who are so minded to prepare for service to the community and the Church without having to incur pro­hibitive loans just to make it through college. 
We need a recommitment to education in the tradition of Notre Dame, centered on the Congregation of Holy Cross, whose members founded and built this institution. In more re­cent years, regrettably, the Holy Cross priests have adopted, or acquiesced in, policies that have subordinated Notre Dame to the standards of the secular estab­lishment. And they have relin­quished the principal offices controlling academics, theology, student affairs and admissions. It is no reflection on the lay ad­ministrators to say that Notre Dame has lost much of its iden­tity with none of those posts held by Holy Cross priests. 
I hope, perhaps unrealisti­cally, that Notre Dame will sur­vive as a Catholic institution loyal to the Vicar of Christ and actively seeking the aid of the Mother of God. The pursuit of PC and of "research" greatness, however, is leading us in the op­posite direction. 
What matters, in truth, is not whether we are favorably re­garded at Princeton, Yale, the National Organization for Women, or Beijing. What counts is the service we provide for our students. Holy Cross priests are six of the 12 Fellows of the Uni­versity. It is time for them to return this institution to its his­toric mission, which is the education of students in the Catholic tradition. 
Charles E. Rice is a professor at the Notre Dame Law School. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student targets poor publicity as reason for lack of participation at SMC/ND dinner 
Dear Editor: 
How much participation in the recent Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Freshwoman's dinner did the Freshman Board expect with such poor publicity about the event ("Sparse participa­tion impairs goals of SMC/ND Freshwoman's dinner," The Observer, April 10)? On the en­tire Saint Mary's campus, I saw one poster announcing in the event. This poster was on the bulletin board by the steps in the dining hall (LeMans side). The poster itself was drab (the information was printed in dark letters on white posterboard with no graphics) and was hung in a poor location. 
The signs concerning the re­cent Saint Mary's Freshman Formal were in great contrast to this poster. Formal signs were posted everywhere on campus-on practically every door, mirror and wall in sight-and were printed on light blue paper with a large graphic in the center, which made them very eye-catching. 
Since the Freshman Boards are so concerned about the re­lations between women at the two schools, it is ironic that the formal (exclusively a Saint Mary's event) was so highly publicized while the dinner (a joint Saint Mary's/Notre Dame event) received virtually no publicity, at least on Saint Mary's campus. 
I do not know how much publicity the dinner received on Notre Dame's campus, but when I asked a friend of mine from Notre Dame to come for the dinner, she responded that she had not heard anything about it. Before criticizing the poor participation of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame fresh­women at a joint event, the Freshman Boards should eval­uate to what extent their classmates have been informed about the event. 
Laura Neppl Holy Cross Hall April10, 1991 

Ignorance perpetuates environmental problem 
Dear Editor: 
I find it particularly disturb­ing that several Saint Mary's students find it necessary to feed the squirrels that live on this campus. This may not seem like a serious problem, however, since when has any animal's diet included cereal, chips, or ice cream cones? 
I suppose that the girls who do partake in feeding the squir­rels with food from the dining hall don't realize that soon, come summertime, these ani­mals will have to find their own food. Their ecosystem has been disrupted by the ignorance of a "smarter" species-the human being. This is a perfect exam­ple of the ignorance that is often the root of many larger (or smaller) environmental problems. 
But is it ignorance that has perpetuated the problem? Or do these girls actually think that since small rodents eat nuts and berries, that this includes "Crunch Berries?" It is cruel to feed the squirrels. Sure, they are "cute" but it is true, they can exist in their natural environment without the aid of sugar-coated preservatives. 
Both the administration and the Marriott Corporation have failed to even address the prob­lem. But perhaps inhumane treatment of animals is not something that concerns them? Nevertheless, feeding the squir­rels is a problem that needs to be stopped. These animals do not need to be fed. These ani­mals can forage on their own and survive without our food. 
Becky Ciletti 
LeMans Hall 
April11, 1991 
AGTZVZT:I:ES 



Minoso deserves Fay Vincent's support to play in sixth decade 
Dear Editor: 
Preventing Minnie Minoso from playing in a single game in 1990 or 1991 so that he could become the only six­decade professional baseball player is dumb, stupid and an insult to real baseball fans. 
The Commissioner of Baseball should realize that Minoso had, and has, more heart and competitive spirit than all of the .208 hitters that get paid millions and go to arbitration requesting more money. The Commissioner felt that it would "trivialize the game" to let Minnie Minoso play. Come on, Commissioner Vincent! 
If you took a poll of all baseball fans in the U.S. and asked, "Would you like to see Minnie Minoso pinch run one time in the major league today?", I feel confident of the answer-and I'll bet-oops (no wagering allowed) that Minnie would get a standing ovation and that parents would be able to say to their daughters and sons, "He's a real ballplayer." By the way, Minnie would touch up on third and score on a fly ball with less than two outs, even today. 
Chuck Lennon South Bend April11, 1991 

-----------------------------------------------~­

..... 
Accent 
Wednesday, April17, 1991 page 13 
Live, from New York, it's . •• 
Lectures trace the legend of Saturday Night Live throughout the years 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH Accent Writer 
WAHNING: This "is about people­highly creative and consciously eccentric people ... who were operating under extreme pressure... The effects on the psyche of major stardom, though a part of popular legend, are underAstimated ... Keep this in mind." -Doug Hill and Jeff Weingrad. 
On October 11, 197 5, the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) made television history, when it launched Saturday Night Live, a program Keppler Assodatns describnd as "a potent blend of innovative comedy, irreverence and occasionally tasteless satire." 
On April 1R, 1991, Doug Hill and Jeff WAingrad, coauthors of the best seller "A Backstage History of 'Saturday Night,"' will mtnll that dynamic history to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students in a riveting performance that Time magazinn dubbed "bntter than reruns." 
Hill and Weingrad have been brought to Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education to "recount the tumultuous history of the show from its beginnings as an outlaw program produced by an unruly band of comedy underground rerwgades through its evolution into a comedy institution," according to Keppler Associates. 
Armed with 40 minutes of film clips, which are not available anywhere else, these two talented speakers will be on hand to fill students in on what happerwd behind the scenes-to reveal such mystnries as why: 
•Garrett 
Morris rarely appeared as a leading man in sketches. 

•Eddie Murphy almost always did. 

•Chevy 
Chase was resented by the enst. 

•Bill 
Murray once punched out Chevy live minutes before air time. 


•Dan Aykroyd trashed a wall on the 17th floor of the NBC Building. 
•John 
Belushi disliked Lily Tomlin. 

•John 
Belushi disliked Chevy Chase. 

•John 
Belushi disliked "the Bees." 


•For many weeks, the NBC censor had trouble sleeping. 
In their presentation, Hill and Weingrad will cover the same areas they discussed in their book which was praised by the Gannett News Service for "the willingness to name names-to say who was taking drugs, who was trying to upstage who, to tell what money people were making." 
The Baltimore Sun added, "For someone who has followed TV, or the show, or its stars, it is unflaggingly ab­sorbing, frequently fascinating and occasionally amazing." 
According to Hill and Weingrad, Saturday Night Live, "SNL" or "the show" as the program was more af­fectionately called, began somewhat vaguely. 
In "Saturday Night," they describe how once the show was scheduled to air Lorne Michaels, the youthful producer, told his staff. "Do anything you want." lie did, however, "Jay down some ground rules:" No Carol Burnett. "There will be more integrity and respect for writing here," he said. 
Once the show got on its feet it began to grow-in popularity and personality. Each performer brought something dif­ferent to "Saturday Night Live" which resulted in "battles the show waged with network executive and censors, and the chaotic whirls of rewrites, tantrums, and rivalries among the cast members." 
On Thursday at 8 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education, Hill and Weingrad will explore the aspects of "Saturday Night Live" that made the show a television legend. TickAts are $3 and will be sold at the LaFortune information desk. 
"A Backstage History of 'Saturday Night Live'" is sponsored by the Student (As seen on Nick at Nite's ~~aest of Saturday Night Live" series) 

Union Board. 
Send Off to 'affirm service' for student summer volunteers 
By STEVE TANKOVICH 
Accent Writer 
Service is a vital part of life h11re at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's, and many students choose to volunteer for a sum­nwr or a year aft1~r graduation. In r11cognition of their commit­ment to service, the Center for Soda! Concerns is sponsoring a Volunt11nr Send-Off service for the students, their families. and anyone else who is interested in showing their support for the students. 
This is the second year for the Send-Off. The idea behind it is that it helps to "affirm service," according to Mary Ann Hoerner, director of senior/alumni programs at the CSC. "There anm't enough vehicles for supporting service," says Hoerner. 
'There are doctor.s,
Iawvers, and a vanetv 
othcnner orofess1onals 
w o ao serv1ce. 
There are doctors, lawyers, and a variety of other profes­sionals who do service. These people integrate service into their profession. "This Send-Off helps people to see how service can be integrated into one's life," Hoerner adds. 
Last year, talks by former law student and year-long volunteer Irene Loftus and by President Malloy were highlights of the program. There was also a reading with a reflection and a candle lighting service. This year's service promises to be as equally impressive a program. 
Jay Caponigro, a senior who will volunteer this summer in Spokane, Washington, was able to assist with and attend last year's service. "It was a useful and touching ceremony," states Caponigro. 
"It was useful in that the stu­dents were recognized by their peers and parents for their work ... touching in that it was the culmination of four years growth and that it was the culmination of moving toward a lifestyle of service," Caponigro added. 
Caponigro and Roemer both are in agreement about the im­portance of the Send-Off to al­low the parents to Jearn more about and show their support for their son's or daughter's experience. "It was very healthy for the students to see the sup­port of the parents," Caponigro stated. 
Students in the program are planning to work with a variety of different organizations. Some of these include the Holy Cross Associates, the Jesuit Volunteer Program, the Peace Corps, Habitat for Humanity, and the Lutheran Volunteer Corps. They will be travelling to such diverse locations as Chile, Spokane, Washington, Chicago, Illinois, and Phoenix, Arizona. 
'lt was useful in that t he stuaents were recoon1z?.d by the1r 
eers-an arent tor 
ffie1rhwor. -~ touc~ino 
m t .at 1.t was tne 
culm1nat1ohn ot four 
years growt .' 
Seniors who are volunteering for a year or summer of service after graduation should register for the Volunteer Send-Off at the esc and give their parents' address so that invitations can be mailed to them. Off campus students reading this article should be doubly aware about registration, as there are no hall service commissioners to give them further reminders. 
'The Senior Solution' offers alternative to formal 
By AL PISA Accent Writer 
As a senior, you are faced with a problem. 
Senior Formal is quickly approaching but you're not going 
because you just can't afford it. You start to get dt~pressed 
when you think about being stuck on campus for the weekend 
while the rest of the class is in Chicago. A group of seniors, 
along with the Office of Campus Ministry, have come up with an 
answer to your problem, and they call it "The Senior Solution." 
"The Senior Solution" is an off-campus senior dinner/dance 
that will be held Friday night at St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall 
from 7 p.m. to midnight. 
The idea for the dinner/dance first eame about when a group 
of off-campus seniors expressed their concern to Father Tom 
McDermott, a member of the Office of Campus Ministry, about 
the high price of the Senior Formal. 
"One senior said he wished there was some alternative for 
people who couldn't go to Senior Formal. The more we talked 
about it, the more we thought, 'why can't there be?"' said Mc­
Dermott. McDermott explained that he got involved with the 
planning of the dinner/dance because, " ... at times things can 
become too glitzy and expensive and that's not necessarily the 
key to having a good time. This dinner/dance will be a lot of fun 
while not costing much." 
For only $25 a couple, "The Senior Solution" otTers a sit 
down, family style dinner of chicken, mashed potatoes and 
gravy, and Polish sausage along with desserts. 
Beer and wine will be served and the campus band Jester 
will provide the entertainment for the night. The organizers of 
the dinner/dance want to emphasize that the purpose of the 
night will be to give those who couldn't make the Prom the 
chance to have a good time in a more relaxed style. 
So, if you haven't purchased a Senior Formal bid but want to 
have one more memorable time to add to the memories of your 
senior year, it's not too late. Tickets for "The Senior Solution" 
are still available from either McDermott, or off-campus presi­
dents Mark Bettencourt and Steve Leinenweber. 
=~w··· 
--

Accent 

Me and Paul down by ·the schoolyard 
Paul Simon performs old classics along with new innovations at the ACC 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON singing many songs from the AND AMY MILTKO Simon and Garfunkel days. The old songs were often played
Accent Writers 
with a new twist because of the more diverse sounds that the
It was clear from the first 
larger, international band werestrains of "Obvious Child" that capable of creating. 
the audience at the Joyce ACC Among the old favorites hewas in for an inspiring perfor­
covered were "Bridge Over
mance by Paul Simon last night. 
Troubled Water" and "Me and
The crowd that gathered to 
Julio Down by the Schoolyard."
see the South Bend contingent Although the new songs have a
of Paul Simon's Born at the 
great beat and an exciting newRight Time Tour consisted of sound, many of the audienceold and young fans, yet all were 
seemed to hold to the older
equally awed by the spectacular songs as the true classics.
light show that highlighted the 
Much to the delight of the
energy and enthusiasm of Paul 
audience Simon performed
Simon and his band members. 
three encores. He played six
At times there were as many songs in all, the most memo­as fifteen band members on the 
rable of which were "The
stage. There were four percus­Boxer," "Sound of Silence," andsionists and a drummer, three a new rendition of "Cecilia" that 
horn players, three back-up unfortunately left some fans
singers, three guitarists, a bass longing for the old version. 
player and a keyboardist. The The encores were undoubt­band members were from all edly the high point of the show.
over the world. Some of the 
Even after the third encore the
countries represented were 
cheering crowd was still calling 
South Africa, Peru, Brazil, 
for more, and when they finally Botswana as well as the United brought the house lights on theStates. As is characteristic of 
fans were still a little bit
Pual Simon's newer music, the 
reluctant to admit that Paulinternational mix of band Simon's remarkable perfor­
members added to its unique mance was over.
dimension. 
In the second encore, as anIn the opening set of the con­introduction to "Sound of Si­
cert Paul Simon performed 
lence," Simon made sure to tellsongs mainly from his two most us that this was his third visit to recent releases, "Graceland" the University of Notre Dame.
and "Rhythm of the Saints." 
In his third and final encoreThe most memerable of which Simon stated that performing
were, "Days of Miracle and 
yet another song was his
Wonder," "Born at the Right pleasure. But we must say, andTime," "Graceland" and "You we're sure most would agree,Can Call Me Al." 
that the pleasure was all ours.
Simon surprised us by also 

Monkman finds opportunity in Air Force program 
By ELIZABETH VIDA break. The next day I was commis­Accent Writer sioned." At this point, Monkman has been accepted at the medical schools of
As all pre-professional majors know Creighton and University of Vermont,. or will soon find out, medical school is 
and is waiting to hear from the
;, ~xpensive, with tuition alone surpassing University of Washington. 
' $20,000 in most cases. 

She was sworn in to the Air Force asAny scholarships that cover or even 
a Second Lieutenant, the same rankdefray the enormous expense of 
ROTC students receive upon graduationbecoming a doctor are a big help. An from Notre Dame. After medical school,option open to pre-meds is the Health she will be promoted to captain. 
Professions Scholar Program, offered For Monkman, the program begins
through both the Air Force and the 
this summer. A forty-five day crashNavy. 
course in basic training awaits her in
The Scholar Program, which is San Antonio, all part of the re­
separate from ROTC, is a full, four year 
quirements for a Health Professions
scholarship to a given medical school, Scholar spelled out in an eight pageincluding tuition, board, and a stipend 
contract. The summer after her
for food and extra costs. Approximately sophomore year, Monkman begins rota­seven pre-professional seniors at Notre
-Dame have been accepted into the tions, interning at different Air Force hospitals and gaining valuable
Program this year. The average GPA for accepted seniors is a 3.6, and the experience. 
"After graduation from medical
average MCAT score is a 61 on the old school, different paths can be taken inMCAT scale of 90. 
the Program", said Monkman,One of this year's scholarship 
depending on whether a graduate wantsrecipients is Lisa Monkman, a science to specialize in a field of medicine. 
pre-professional major from 
Because she wants to be a familyWashington. "I had known about the practitioner, however, Monkman will do because it offers much better pay than Force or Navy. Beyond that, she is notHealth Professions Program since before her residency at an Air Force base civilian residency," Monkman added. sure of what lies ahead. For the nearmy freshman year," Monkman said. "I 
hospital, offering medical services to the future, however, she can state withapplied to the Air Force Progra,m before families of servicemen. "Doing After her residency, Monkman owes confidence, "I think it's going to be aChristmas, and found out I had been residency with the Air Force is good four years of medical service to the Air great opportunity." 
accepted the first Thursday back from 



P:.... ·"' ¥ 'P #·.. fo • .!, 
The Observer page 15 
Blues, Oilers advance in NHL playoffs 
The St. Louis Blues and also scored and Adam Oates Calgary. capping a dramatic Edmonton Oilers advanced in had two assists for the Blues. NHL playoff series. the Nlll. playoffs with dramatic The last team to come back victories in their respective di­from a 3-1 deficit was last With the Oilers reeling under 
vision semifinals on Tuesday year's Edmonton Oilers, who a continued Calgary assault, the night. defeated Winnipeg en route to pesky Finnish forward scored 
The Blues wrapp1~d up their their fifth Stanley Cup in seven his third goal of the game. He Norris Division series in seven years. also had an assist in the game. games by beating the Detroit Jimmy Carson scored an 
Hed Wings 3-2. The Blues be­unassisted goal with 7:33 left The defending Stanley Cup 
came only the eighth team in when defenseman Garth champion Oilers fought back Nlll. playoff history to come Butcher fell down and lost the from a 3-0 deficit in the first hack from a 3-I defidt. puck to make the finish inter­period, tying the score by the 
The Oilers. m11anwhile, beat esting after the Blues had taken end of the second and going Calgary 5-4 in overtime to win a 3-1 lead. 
ahead in the third on a goal by tl111ir first-round Smythe series. A delaynd oiTsides call also seldom-used Soviet forward nullified an apparent game-ty­Anatoli Semenov. Blues 3, Red Wings 2 ing goal by Detroit center Steve Brett Hull's breakaway goal Yzerman with 44 seconds to go. But a goal by Calgary's Hon • j 
... -~·
.....

snapped a tie late in the seeond Smythe Division Stern with two minutes to play •.­p11riod as the Blues completed in the third period sent the 
their remarkable comeback. Oilers 5, Flames 4, OT game into overtime, an appro­In addition to !lull's league­Esa Tikkanen scored his third priate conclusion to a series leading eighth goal of the play­goal of the game at 6:58 of that wowed hockey fans across on's, Dan Quinn and Hich Sutter overtime to lift Edmonton over Canada. 
AP Photo St. Louis goalie Vincent Riendeau stops another shot in the Blues' 3-2 . victory over Detroillast night. 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline lor next-day classifieds Is 3p.m. All class1fieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

STAYING FOR THE SUMMER?  Condo for summer rental  I NEED 1 GRAD TICKET! Call  B and BoNe FoReSt  Project RESISTANCE  
NOTICES  I'm looking for 1-3 roommates to share a Campus View apartment for  2 bdrm 1 mi. from ND 272-5708  x4114.  E d THURSDAY  Operation CHAOS You NEED to know I  
the summer. I'm interning in the  HOUSE FOR SUMMER SUBLET  I need 4 graduation tix! Please help  s at  William Webster knows.  
TYPING AVAILABLE  Bend, so I won't be around much.  FROM 6/10-8/20. RENT  me-call Tricia at 271-1920  P CLUB 23  
287·4082  Call John at 283-3574.  NEGOTIABLE. HISTORICAL  i  
NEIGHBORHOOD. CALL 7-9 PM  Need two Graduation tickets  N  Moving off campus?  
$$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg.  LOOKING FOR CONDO/APT. TO  232-8783.  PLEASE Ill Call Bathe 288-0597  s  Fantastic bar for sale-less than a  
hours 10-5:30 everyday  SUBLEASE FOR SUMMER. CALL  year old. Also, various furniture  
Pandora's Books 233-2342 corner of ND Ave & Howard  JANET 283-3831.  AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR AUGUST 1. FOUR BEDROOM HOME WITH  PERSONALS  DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE  including beds (double and single). couches,  
Sitter for two boys. Age 5 and 3.  TWO COMPLETE BATHS.  tables, desks, bookshelves,etc.  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  Flexible, own transportation.  COMPLETELY FURNISHED.  MODELS WANTED FOR  O'Laughlin Auditorium  Call288-0597, Lafayette Square  
Winmng Hotel. has rooms tor  Sunnymede area. 289-9649.  CLOSE TO NOTRE DAME. CALL  ADVANCED HAIRCUTTING  April 17-20 at B p.m.  
Graduation weekend. Located at  234-9364.  CLASS. CALL COSIMO'S 277­ April 21 at 2:30p.m.  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  
Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles  STUDENTS & GRADS Cruise Ship  1875.  $5 students  CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  
from South Bend) Minimum stay 2  Jobs $300 to $900 per week.  Sublet apartment for summer:1  $4 SMC students  
nights with $110 deposit per room.  Summer or year around. Call 9-5 M·  bedroom, 800+ sq. ft., fully  Resumes .... Professional quality  STUDENTS:  
Send letter with deposit to 3011  F (317) 452-8809 Ext. C4.  furnished, washer and dryer  272-5667. (Tom Williams)  PICTURES PLUS  Going home for the summer? Need  
Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514.  in apartment, pool, tennis  a place to stash your stuff? We  
TYPING term  FOR RENT  courts. etc. Rent negotiable. Call 277-2597  WITH BEST WISHES  VIDEO INSTANT PHOTOS It's more than a picture it's an  have the place for you I JOY'S SELF LOCK STORAGE  
papers/reportsllettersJresumes.  Wedding Consultant for N.D/  EVENT!  272-2400  
Pick up and delivery available. 277­ GRAD. WEEKEND  HOUSE FOR RENT  SMC students. Phone 272-5640.  First floor La Fortune, O'Hare Rm.  
5134 Cathy.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  2BEDROOMS $150,$170/MON  SUMMER STORAGE: Best rates  
219-291-7153.  WALK TO CAMPUS.  ADOPTION: Happily married loving  Will pay for a ride to St.Louis this  and facility. Call Store-More Mini­ 
TYPING: Accurate and Fast'  CALL: 287-2159 PAUL.  couple wish to adopt. We promise a  Friday. Ca11Joshx1547  Warehouse 654-3636.  
Call Jannell: Days 255-0022;  3 Bedroom House  fine education, financial security,  
Evenings 684-7507.  Close to Campus  NEED ROOMMATE FOR TURTLE  and the best of all our hearts.  INTERNING IN CHICAGO THIS  Georgie:  
$555 Month + Deposit  CREEK APARTMENT FOR NEXT  Expenses paid. Legal/confidential.  SUMMER? Female ND student  God is watching  
FREE SOFTWARE  Ten Month Lease  YEAR-PLEASE CALL 271-9299.  Call Tom and Debbie collect 212­ needs roommate. Call Lynn at  AND SO ARE WEI  
DOS User's Group  232-3616  866-8315.  x4935.  Mom and Dad  
Meeting April 17  HOUSE FOR RENT, 1 TENNANT  
at 7:00pm  An attractive studio in lovely old  CURRENTLY RESIDES, NEED  HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS  TO THE 3 MEN I ADMIRE MOST  Cath"leen" ...  
G015 CCMB  mansion near N.D. $300 now  MALE ROOMATE, $225 UTIL PAID,  SUMMER? Jet there with  THE FATHER, SON, AND STEVE  I had an exceptionally fascinatingly,  
BRING A DISK  renting for summer &fall 91 call  NO DEPOSIT, DESIRE GRAD  AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the  BOONE. I HUMBLY BOW TO  exhilarating evening of enchantment  
2879624  STUDENT, 234-9828­ Midwest, $160 from the East Coast.  YOUR  (a great time) Sat. night. Your  
RESUMES/TERM  HOME OR CALL MARK AT WORK  (As reported in NY limes and Let's  DOMINANCE IN TENNIS. I CAN  presence at this truly festive event  
PAPERS/THESES Guaranteed  Best Locations, Best Houses, Have  234-1221.  Gol) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000  ONLY DREAM OF STROKING THE  brought brilliant radiance to the  
Lowest Rates. 256-6657.  your own yard. 233-9947.  BALL AS WELL AS YOU.  night (it was really neat going with  
LOST/FOUND  Female rmmte. (non-smok.) needed for '91-92 at Runaway Bay-call Lisa  FOR SALE  KOONTZ HOUSE BED & BREAKFAST WEEKEND GETAWAY.  Billy Webster-You are a real jerk. Now go home,  you.) See ya soon. · That Pesky Wabblt  

 259-6841.  286-IBM comp. PC/30mgb +  23 miles south of campus on Koontz  please. Thank you.  
LOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT  additional 20 mgb. hd./ambar  Lake. 586-7090.  WANTED..MALES for research  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 239­ Furnished Summer Apt-Turtle  screen/2400b modem/MS-Dos and  To the beautiful girl with the  project$$call Bo & Whoopie 284­ 
5812 TERRI WELTY.  Creek-2 Bed-Call  installed software/PERFECT  I got it.  flowered pants, long brown hair,  5155  
283-1747 after 5  CONDITION. Price negotiable! Call  Come. And be my baby.  green jacket, and great butt ... I saw  
HELPI HELPI HELP! HELP!  after 7 pm. 232-3330  you Fri. night at Stanford. I think  LUNCHMEAT  
I LOST MY CROSS ON 3/27 IN  LIVE LIKE KINGS  Kef, Mel and Murph,  you saw me. X2042  needs a date to DILLON's SYRI  
GYM 1 OF THE ACC. IT IS A  DESERT STORM CARDS­ (preferably female) call x1728  
SILVER CROSS ON A BLACK  3 safe houses, priv. parking  Complete collectors edition of 250  Hi. This will probably get there faster  CLYDES!  CONDIMENTS PROVIDED  
ROPE. IT HAS GREAT  lot, beach V-ball ct. '91-'92  Pro-Set cards-$21  than any letter. Take care and have  That is, current and former  
SENTIMENTAL VALUE! A  yr. 234-3831 or 288-5653  Free Campus Delivery  fun.  members of Flanner 3A;  CONGRATULATIONS TO THE  
REWARD IS OFFERED. IF YOU  Call232-7315  I have tons of news to tell-I'll write  Thank you very much for  RUGBY TEAM!  
FOUND IT PLEASE CALL:  NYC SUMMER SUBLET  soon.  coming to the Mass on Sunday.  Great Job last weekend I  
MIKE AT 1788  AVAILABLE. $425/mo. May-Aug.  It really meant a lot to me.  Especially to Dan McNeive who  
Call Barb (718) 802-0939.  For Sale: 82 VW Rabbit  Love, L  Chavez, Suave, Chez  SCORED TWICE I  
Lost on Stephan basketball courts:  Great condition, new battery,  
Triumph WATCH AND 1934  MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our  100k miles  ADOPTION: Loving couple, doctor  ND/SMC  Dear Kelly Ann,  
CHICAGO SILVER RING!!  N.D. alumnae family for the most  Call Jeff @ 1786  and teacher, longing to share our  Junior Accounting Students  I can't wait to see you in  
Great sentimental value !I  attractive, well-maintained  love with newborn. We'll give your  FREE FOOD & REFRESHMENTS  three weeks! Take care, have fun,  
Please caii-Kath Anne  apartments on Chicago's North  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  baby a caring, warm, and happy  Wed 4/17, 5:30PM at  and get ready for us!  
X4086  side! Hardwd floors. great closet  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  home. Expenses paid. Call Carol  Barnaby's on Grape Rd.  I love you.  
space, lndry facils., conveniently  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993.  and Frank collect 212-874-3537.  sponsored by  
WANTED  located to public transp and shopping. Call (312) 561-8224.  Office near campus.  LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes  Conviser & Duffy CPA Review  Whoever stole the banner from ENGINEER's WEEK 1991,  
We'd love to help you out!  'Shelf Stereo System•  every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00 am.  Amy Blaze  please sell it to us. It has much  
SUMMER JOBS  Dual Cassette, AM/FMst, semi-auto  Train and jump the same day.  Did you think on your 21st  sentimental value.  
FOR RENT FOR RENT  turntable, 2 shelf spkrs  Modern equipment and training  birthday we would forget­ call x1728 ask for Lunch meat or  - 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  $80 or b.o. Matt x2004  programs. Licensed instructors.  That pungent summer's eve  SUNSHINE.  
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  BIG 4 BEDROOM I 2 BATH HOUSE  FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948­ when you filled an empty toilet?  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  WITH WET BAR IN BASEMENT.  89 GEO Spectrum  2665.  Love--3A  Dear Peggy-0,  
LAKE PLACID. CALL  $600 FOR FOUR.  Great Gas Mileage- Our big weekend is coming upl  
1 -800-343-8373.  10 MONTH LEASE.  45/city 50/highway  What do Rafael Trujillo Salvador  (no big parties, of course). I can't  
CALL 271-0373  Still has factory warranty  Allende  wait until next year. What do you  
American Au Pair nanny specialists.  excellent buy, call Pat  OFF-CAMPUS SENIORS:  Mohammed Mossadegh  think, French provincial or  
Carefully screened families. Full  Summer Rent  288-5678  Jacobo Arbenz and  southwestern?  
benefits, airfare, good wages,  Turtle Creek Twn. House  You must pick up Senior Formal  Ngo Dinh Diem  
Nanny support system, no fees.  Negot. $ Call Dan 283-1248  FOR SALE: One Way ticket to L.l.  Bids today!! II!!  have in common?  Cent.;r for Ch11 and Human Rl(hta  
Local interview-call Joan 616-684­1451.  TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE  Islip airport Sat. 5111 $1 00 Erin x4492  12-3 SMC off-campus lounge  Ask WILLIAM WEBSTER, CIA TONIGHT 8:00• Lib. Auditorium  and Center for Social Concern• lnYile you to hear  
Mov1ng to Chicago? Female ND  IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER  IRISH PUB NEAR N.D.-3 WAY  OR  BARBARA A. FREY '78  
grad needs roommate to share 2  3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE  LIQUOR LICENSE P.O. BOX 1121  What do Rafael Trujillo Salvador  a Minnei!Ola lawyer and  
bedroom apartment. Must be a non­ NORTH OF ND 2773097  SOUTH BEND, IN 46624  3-6 in Theodore's  Allende  human rl&hta ad.-ocate  
smoker. If interested, please call  OR CALL (219) 277-8526  Mohammed Mossadegh  
Ann at (312) 935-1958.  PROCRASTINATORS!  SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY  Jacobo Arbenz and  "International Human Rlghta  
Not too late to rent -large,  Ngo Dinh Diem  /l'cu:t-Ffndlng: Moral Pressure,  
rider to S. Fla after finals call X4608 John DESPERATE: Need 1 hotel room Sat. of Grad. 271·1893  furnished, clean house w/washer, dryer in "student" neighborhood for Fall semester. Lease, deposit. Call today or MISS OUT on great housingl259-7801 or 255-5852.  TICKETS NEED 2 GRAD TIX CALL BILL 3546  GOOD QUESTION @BRIDGET'S FINAL BAR APPEARANCE I THURSDAY AT 1OPM  have in common? Ask WILLIAM WEBSTER TONIGHT 8:00• Lib. Auditorium  M...tladon or" M...tdllng?" Thunday, April 18 4:00p.m. CSC Multi-Purpose Room  

NBA STANO INGS AMERICAN LEAGUE BOOKSTORE RESULTS 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE McCorrrick Coney Island def. 4 Students ... 2t ·11
Atlantic Dlvlalon 
East Division The Dog del. 5 Men In Flannels 21-3 

w L I'd ffi L10 Streak Home Away Conf 
w L Pd. rn Rocket, Digger and 3 others del. Trouser Gremlins 

y-Boston 56 23 .709 6-4 Lost 1 35-5 21-18 35-16 
Toronto 6 3 .667 22-20 

x-Phlladelphla 43 36 .544 13 5-5 Lost 3 28-12 15-24 31-20 
Cleveland 4 4 .500 1 112 Painkiller Ouitt def. Odd and Injured 21-4

x-NewYork 38 42 .475 18 112 4-6 Wont 20-20 18-22 27-25 
Baltimore 3 3 .500 1112 The Good The Bad ... del. 4 Social Drinkers and

Washington 30 49 .380 26 4-6 Won3 21-18 9-31 22-31 
Detroit 3 4 .429 2 Steve 21-18

New Jersey 24 55 .304 32 2-8 Lost2 19-21 5-34 16-36 
Milwaukee 3 4 .429 2 Caucasian Invasion del. A Cheap and Dirty

Miami 23 56 .291 33 3-7 Lost3 17-22 6-34 14-37 
Boston 3 5 .375 2112 Method 21-9
Central Dlvlalon 
NewYoll< 2 5 .286 3 Persian Revolutionary del. Huddle Nighthawks 21­

y-Chlcago 58 21 .734 6-4 Wont 34-6 24-15 39-12 
8 

x-Detroh 49 31 .613 9112 6-4 Wont 32-9 17-22 32-20 
West Division Tommy's Tiny T-Bones del. Scuds. Quayle and

x-Milwaukee 47 33 .588 11 112 5-5 Lost3 32-8 15-25 32-21 
w L Pd. rn lshtar 21-12 

x-Atlanta 42 37 .532 16 4-6 Lost 1 29-10 13-27 25-26 
Chicago 5 0 1.000 Tequila White Lighting X def. Flghtln Iris 21-5 

x-lndlana 40 40 .500 18 112 5-5 Won2 28-12 12-28 26-26 
Oakland 6 1 .857 Commlr L.. Det. 4 B-Balls 21-18 

Cleveland 30 49 .380 28 5-5 Wont 20-18 10-31 21-31 
California 5 2 .714 1 Wet Dreams del. Club 23 21-18 

Charlotte 25 54 .316 33 5-5 Won2 17-23 8-31 16-35 
Kansas City 4 3 .571 2 Showtime In the jungle del. Whipped Possy 21-19 
Texas 2 4 .333 3112 Shoot or gel off del. Word to Your Mother 21-19 WESTERN CONFERENCE Minnesota 2 5 .286 4 Pass the Beer Nuts del. Fightln' Senioritls 2t -9Midwest Dlvlalon Seattle 1 6 .143 5 Coach 14 def. Bricklayer Union 21-11 w L I'd ffi L10 Streak Home Away Conf We love Digger ... Not del. K.C. and the Sunshine x-San Antonio 53 26 .671 8-2 Won2 32-8 21-17 34-18 

Monday'a Games Band 21-13 x-Utah 52 27 .658 1 6-4 Won2 34-5 18-22 36-17 Cleveland 1, Boston 0, 13 Innings Paradise Jam del. Our Party Balls Flow 21-9 x-Houston 51 27 .654 1 112 7-3 Won2 30-9 21-18 32-20 Chicago 6, New Yoll< 5 Small But Huge del. legend of Rico Suave 21-19 Orlando 29 50 .367 24 4-6 Wont 22-17 7-33 23-33 Bahimore 7, Milwaukee 2 3 Amigos def. Beertrain 21·12 Minnesota 27 52 .342 26 5-5 Won2 20-20 7-32 17-38 Toronto 4, Detroit 3 Bitter del. Innkeepers 1121-16Dallas 26 53 .329 27 1-9 Lost 8 18-21 8-32 15-38 Oakland 5, California 2 All the Student Body's ... def. No Blood No Foul 21· Denver 19 60 .241 34 1-9 Lost 9 16-24 3-36 11-43 Seanle 8, Minnesota 4 16 Pacific Dlvlalon Only games scheduled 5 Small Guys ... def. Lets Get Ready 21-14 y-Portiand 61 18 .772 10-0 Won 14 34-5 27-13 40-13 T earn 169 de f. The Iron Dukes 21-11 x-LA Lakers 57 22 .722 4 8-2 Wont 32-8 25-14 39-14 

Tuesday's Games 4 Jakes and A Lebanese Fatman del. 2 Chauvinist x-Phoenlx 53 26 .671 8 6-4 Wont 30-9 23-17 33-20 Late Games Not Included and 3 Guys 21-t3x -Golden State 41 38 .519 20 5-5 Won2 28-11 13-27 25-28 Boston 5, Kansas C~y 2 No Clue del. Gus's Wrecking Service 2t-6x-Seattle 40 39 .506 21 8-2 Lost 1 27-13 13-26 26-27 Texas 3, Cleveland 1 Five Guys Who Celebrated ... def. As Long as WeLA Clippers 31 48 .392 30 6-4 Lost 1 23-17 8-31 26-27 Detroit 6, Toronto 2 Don't 21-15 Sacramento 23 56 .291 38 4-6 Lost 3 22-17 1-39 16-36 Chicago at New Yoll<, (n) 414 Adworks del. Do Not Taunt Hoppy 21-4 x-clinched playoff berth Minnesota at Seanle, (n) Dr. Avalanche del. 5 Guys Who Play Hard 21-14

r 
y-clinched division title 

Oakland at Cal~ornia, (n) Golden Sorrbreros def. Local... 21-16NHL PLAYOFFS TRANSACT! ONS Only games scheduled Nothing and Like k del. Digger Masone 21-10 Monday'• Gamea Ross Twins on Scholarship del. J Boetteim D
BASEBALL Wednesday's Games Phelps 21-18 • ·Chicago 103, Milwaukee 94 Norris Divialon 
American League

Minnesota 112, Sacramento 94 At St. Louis Chicago (Fernandez 1-0) at New York Caul~lower Crud del. Elvis is Dead 21-1 1
SEATILE MARINERS-Activated Ken Griffey Sr., 
Houston 97, Seattle 93 Detroit 0 1-2 
(Cary 0-t), 1 p.m. Air Zebra ... def. Mojo Alsen Express 21-13 

outfielder, from the 15-day disabled list. Optioned 
LA lakers 112, Dallas 106 St. Louis 1 1 1-3 Kansas Cky (S.Davis 1-0) at Boston Multiple Scoregasms II del. Digger Phelps
Dave Burba, pkcher, to Calgary of the PacWic Coast
First Period-1, St.louis, Quinn 3 (Oates), 12:24. 
(Bolton 0-0), 1:05 p.m. Saddam Hussein 21-9 ' League.

Tueaday'a Gamea Second Period-2, Detrok, Racine 2 (Fedorov, Toronto (Boucher 0-0) at Detrok The Hawk Will Never Die del. Beaver Cleavers 21­
late Game Not Included Chiasson), 3:24 (pp). 3, St. Louis, Hull 8 (Oates), 
(Searcy 0-1), 1:35 p.m. 7
BASKETBALL

Charlotte 92, Miami 87 19:39. 
Bahimore (Johnson 1-0) at Milwaukee Screaming VIkings del. Censorship Is Wrong 21­
World Basketball League

Detroh 118, Boston 90 Third Period-4, St. Louis, Sutter 2 (lowry, 
(Navarro 0-0), 7:05p.m. 13 Indiana 132, New Jersey 126 P .Cavaillnl), 1:39. 5, Detrok, Carson 2, 12:27. ERIE WAVE-Named Wes Alexander assistant Minnesota (Tapani 1-0) at Seattle B-1 Bombers del. Moles to the Hole 21-12 coach.

O~ando 113, Atlanta 106 Shots on goai-Detroh 7-4-9--20. St. Louis 5-13­(Bankhead 0-1 ), 10:05 p.m. # 334 del. Sleeping with Bienemy 21-11
Washington 112, Milwaukee 106, OT 7-25. FLORIDA JADES-Named Mike Weiss assistant Oakland (Moore 1-0) at Cal~ornia Bill laimbert and 4 other ... del. Cleveland
coach. (Abbott 0-1 ), 10:35 p.m. Steamers 21-13New York 108, Philadelphia 99 Goalies-Detroit, Cheveldae. St. louis, 
San Antonio 128, LA Clippers 98 Riendeau. A-18,635. NASHVILLE STARS-signed Darren Henrie Only games scheduled We Scored and 8 Chuck E. Cheese def. When
fo.Nard. ' 
Phoenix 153, Denver 118 You're a Hammer 21-19 Lhah 111, Sacramento 101 Smythe Dlvlalon 

Thursday'• Games 2 Rosses ... del. Annoying Men 2t-11
FOOTBALL

Houston at Portland, (n) At Calgary, Atberta Kansas C~y at Boston. 1:05 p.m. Sons of Chachl def. Scott Norwood 21-4
National Football League

Edmonton 1 2 1-5 Detroit at Chicago, 2:35p.m. 
. DETROIT LIONS-5igned Gary Hadd, delensive 
Wedneaday'a Game• Calgary 3 0 1 0-4 Bahimore at Milwaukee, 2:35p.m. 
lineman. Texas at Cleveland, 7:35p.m. 
Cha~one at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. First Period-I, Calgary, Reichelt (Fleury, 
KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-5igned Herman Ford
O~ando at Cleveland, 7:30 p.m. Macinnis), 7:52 (pp). 2, Calgary, Nleuwendyk 4 
cornerback. ' Texas at Cleveland, 7:35p.m. 
Chicago at Miami, 7:30p.m. (Suter, Fleury), 14:43 (pp). 3, Calgary, Fleury 2 Oakland at California, 10:35 p.m. 
SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Traded John Level is linebacker, to the New Yoll< Jets for past ' Minnesota at Dallas, 8:30 p.m. (Ranheim), 16:00.4, Edmonton, Tikkanen 5 Only games scheduled LA Clippers at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m. (Messier, Beukeboom), 17:03. 
considerations.

LA Lakers at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. Second Period-S, Edmonton, Anderson 3 (Tikkanen, Maciver), 4:57 (pp). 6, Edmonton, NATIONAL LEAGUE Thuraday'a Gamea T1kkanen 6 (MacTavish, Lamb), 10:D6. 
HOCKEY 
National Hockey League

Boston at Philadelphia, 7:30p.m. Third Period-7, Edmonton, Semenov 1 (Graves, NATIONAL LEAGUE Tuesday'• Gamea 
MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Recalled Derian Eaat Dlvlalon late Games Not IncludedNew Jersey at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Gelinas), 4:38. 8, Calgary, Stern 1 (Macinnis, 
Wilson), 17:50. Hatcher, delenseman, from North Bay of the w L I'd Chicago 4, Philadelphia 3, 13 Innings Ontario Hockey League, and Cal McGowan, NewYoll< 6 3 .667 Montreal 4, St. louis 1 San Antonio at Houston, 8:30p.m. 
Seattle at Lhah, 9:30 p.m. Overtim&--9, Edmonton, Tlkkanen 7, 6:58. 
center, from Kamloops of the Western Hockey Chicago 5 3 .625 112 Pittsburgh 4, New Yoll< 2
Denver at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. Shots on goal-Edmonton 10-13-13-4-40. Calgary 7-6-15-2-30. league. St. louis 4 4 .500 t 112 Atlanta 10, Houston 4 
Power-play Opportunkles-Edmonton 1 of 4 · 
Pittsburgh 4 4 .500 1 112 Cincinnati at San Diego, (n) Calgary 2 of 6. ' SOCCER Philadelphia 3 5 .375 2 t/2 Los Angeles at San Francisco, (n) Major Soccer League Montreal 3 6 .333 3
Goalies-Edmonton, Fuhr. Calgary, Vernon. /lr­
20,176. TACOMA STARS-Named Bob Walz director of Weal Dlvlalon Wedneaday'a Gamea
AAA STANO INGS 

mail<etlng and public relations. w L I'd Philadephia (Combs 1-0) at Chicago San Diego 6 1 . 857 (Boskle 0-1 ), 2:20 p.m . American Aaaoclatlon COLLEGE Houston 4 
4 .500 2112 Los Angeles (Ojeda 0-t) at San Francisco Eaatem Dlvlalon BUTLER-Announced the resignation of Clevg Atlanta 3 3 .500 2112 (Downs 0-Q), 3:35p.m.
w L Pd. ffi 
Brown, men's and women's tennis coach, effective Los Angeles 3 3 .500 2112 St. Louis (Moyer 0-1) at Montreal Nashville (Reds) 3 3 .500 at the end of the season. Cincinnati 2 4 . 333 3112 (Sampen 0·0), 7:35p.m. Buffalo (Pirates) 2 2 .500 EAST TEXAS STATE-Announced they will not San F ranclsco 2 5 .286 4 New Yoll< (Darling 0-0) at Pittsburgh
Louisville (Cards) 2 3 .400 112 renew the centrad of Jerry Matthews, men's Monday'a Gamea (Smiley 1-Q), 7:35 p.m. lndpolls (Expos) 2 4 .333 1 basketball coach. 
St. Louis 5, Montreal 4 Houston (Portugal I-D) at Atlanta (Avery Weatern Dlvlalon FORT HAYS STATE-Named Gary Garner men's Chicago 5, Phlladephla 4 1-Q), 7:40p.m.Iowa (Cubs) 4 1 .800 basketball coach. 
New York 9, Pittsburgh 3 Cincinnati (Scudder 0-0) at San DiegoDenver (Brewers) 3 1 PRINCETON-Named Joe Susan offensive Houston 3, Atlanta 1 (Harris 1-Q), 10:05 p.m. 
.750 112 Okla. Cky (Rangers) coordinator and offensive line coach. 
3 3 .500 1112 
San Diego 3, Cincinnati 2, 11 InningsOmaha (Royals) 2 4 .333 2112 UC RIVERSIDE-Named Debt Woeke women's Los Angeles 2, San Francisco 1 basketball r:oach. 
tntematlonal League Eaatern Dlvlalon w l Pd. ffi 
1991 STANLEY CUP PLAYOFF SCHEDULE 
Pawtucket (Red Sox) 3 2 .600 Scranton-WB (Phlilles) 3 3 .500 112 Rochester (Orioles) 2 2 .500 112 Syracuse (Blue Jays) 2 3 .400 1 Weatern Dlvlalon Columbus (Yankees) 5 1 .833 Tidewater (Mets) 3 3 .500 2 Richmond (Braves) 2 4 .333 3 Toledo (Tigers) 2 4 .333 3 
Monday'• Gamea Omaha 3, Louisville 2 Iowa 6, Nashville 1 Buffalo 4, Oklahoma Cky 2 Denver 8, Indianapolis 3 Scranton-Wikes-Barre 9, Pawtucket 4 Syracuse at Rochester, ppd.. wet grounds Columbus 5, Tidewater 4, t 6 innings Richmond 6, Toledo 3, 1st game Richmond 11, Toledo 4, 2nd game 
Tueaday'a Gamea Pawtucket at Scranton-Wilkes-Barre Toledo at Columbus Richmond at Tidewater Only games scheduled 
Wedneaday'a Gamea Oklahoma Cky at Indianapolis Nashville at Omaha Louisville at Iowa Denver at Buffalo Pawtucket at Scranton-Wilkes-Barre Rochester at Syracuse Tidewater at Richmond 

.... 
NEEDS 
He need EVERYONE to help out \vi th the
SMC/ND 
SMC/ND RELATIONS COMMITTEE. Come on and lend a helping han~ as an -Observer Contact
RELATIONS YOU! 
-Alumni Contact -Events Committee -Faculty Contact -Publicity -Or anything else! For more information please call:

-Brigid 284-5093 Ted 283-1942 Heather 284-4430 
The Observer page 17 
Student Government Presents
0 0 0 

APublic Forum On Contemporary Issues 
with 


-I 
The Honorable William H. Webster 
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency 
"The Role ofIntelligence in aComplex World" 
Wednesday, April17, 1991 8:00pm Library Auditorium 
-
•

~TUDtNT 
-

~~YIIIMIIl 
-

This lecture was made possible through the generosity of several members of the 
Arts &Letters Council and the Business College Council. 
-
--
-
Digger 
continued from page 24 
ing back tears. "Thanks to the greatest group of players any­where, my dream has come true." 
I was there for most of the best of Digger's Double Decades; from 1976-81. I cov­ered those games for this newspaper. I wrote about the big wins, the dumb losses. I usually gave Digger more credit than he deserved, but only, I assured myself, to balance the unfair criticism I believed he sometimes received. 
'Digger PheiP,s onlywanfed two th1ngsfrom his profession­to coach at Notre Dame and to bringhome a national championship. That the latter never happened must not ... detract trow what is remembered about Digger's time at Notre Dame.' 


everything I can out of this player;, this situation, this team... 
The private times with Digger seemed to reinforce that. 
The midnight flight from Raleigh, North Carolina after a tough loss to NC State. Relaxed, unwound, a philosophical Digger did not want to talk about basketball. 
"Hey, Toohey," he yelled to the team's chaplain, Father William Toohey, sitting a few rows up on the chartered flight. "Hell of a homily tonight. I liked that stuff about inner strength." 
The wink. 

"Where'd you steal it from, Toohey, the Pope?" 
Father Toohey, one of Digger's closest friends, was not to be outdone. 
"No, Digger," was Toohey's deadpan response. "I stole it from Al McGuire, the same guy you steal your best lines from." 
Everyone laughed, Digger hardest of all. 
Several months later, after Bill Toohey's sudden death, Digger and I remembered our mutual friend. 
"What a guy," he said after he served his friend as pallbearer at the funeral. "No ego, no loud mouth, just a soft, quiet message that helped people understand a little bit about life." 
In his own way (never, how­ever soft, nor quiet) Digger had a similar effect on people around him. Like the Friday afternoon he called me and asked what I was doing at eight the next morning. 
"It's Saturday, I'll be sleep­ing," was my unimaginative re­sponse. 
He invited me to Logan Center with him to play basketball with handicapped children. 
'A Notre Dame Man is someone who cares passionatelyabout things that need caring about ... who refuses to acceptthings that are wrong, even though accept~ng lhem would be eas1er ... Someone like Digger Phelps. 
So I went. He played, I watched. He signed autographs, posed for pictures, talked to every kid and every family and it was noon when we were finished. No newspapers, no television cameras, no publicity, no credit. 
"Hey, I got it lucky," he said on the way back to campus. "I'm healthy, my family is healthy, we're doing OK. What you get, sometimes, you gotta give back." 
For many years Notre Dame and Digger had a give and take relationship. Notre Dame gave him fame and fortune, a plat­form to speak from, and, quite frankly, a lifetime's ability to earn a much-better-than-good living. 
In return, Digger gave back a sense of pride in knowing that nothing that happened on his side of the ACC was illegal, or unethical or potentially embarrassing to those of us who care about such things. He gave us memories, 'moments,' and the very best years of a life and a career during the which there was never one second that any of us had to wonder whether he wanted to be somewhere else. 
For you can be sure of this: Digger Phelps only wanted two things from his profession-to coach at Notre Dame and to bring home a national championship. That the latter never happened must not, in any way, tarnish or somehow detract from what is remembered about Digger's time at Notre Dame. 
"Who's a man? He's a man! He's a Notre Dame Man!" 
-old Notre Dame cheer 

things aboutMacintosh. 
You cansaymany 
You would think that some­where in Webster's Unabridged that there would be a definition of such an oft-used phrase. 
Notre Dame Man. 
With all due respect to Webster (and to the women of Notre Dame who must allow me to use the phrase under­standing it's generic applica­tion) I would like to offer a definition of my own. 
A Notre Dame Man is some­one-not necessarily a student or alumnus-who loves the place and knows that it is spe­cial. Someone who takes what good the place has to offer and gives back anything it asks. 
A Notre Dame Man is some­one who cares passionately about things that need caring about. Someone who refuses to accept things that are wrong, even though accepting them would be easier. Someone who yells sometimes and fights sometimes and cries sometimes and is not afraid to do any of those things when he feels a need to. Someone who doesn't always win or even come close, but who knows instinctively that trying is what counts. 
Someone Notre Dame is proud of. 
Someone like Digger Phelps. 


You can talk about how simple the Apple• Macintosh• computer is to use. Or how it can think the way you think. Or how compatible it is with other computers. 
But think again when the word "expensive" comes to mind. Because it's just not true any more. 
Introducing the Macintosh Classic· computer. It's the most affordable Macintosh, yet it has all the capabilities you need to handle basic applications, such as 
analysis. The Classic is acompletely integrated Macintosh system. Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system software are all included, as are extras you might not expect-such as built-in networking and the Apple SuperDrive~ disk drive, which lets the Classic read from and write to MS-OOS, OS/2, and Prooos•ftles. 
Stop in today. We'll show you how it's possible for nearly anyone to afford a Macintosh. Comfortably. 
word processing and spreadsheet NOTUE DA:\IE COMPUTER STORE 
Offll'c of Univcrsily Computing Computing Center/Math Building Phone: 239-'747'7 Hours: Mon.· Fri., 9:00 "5:00 
Ol!l»~~:-1«-~~==.:.:.~::r~=al$d':'';;~=.:=..=-O> 
------------------------•--•-•----.....-.......~--.. --"<-~Jfl..~~-~..,.g_..._._..... _._....,.,,..,-_ _..___-._._.-::;,.., --#w..,.,..J 
.________________________________________ 



-----------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
I'  .., . '6 I;.&. .-r·'-\I  t_' I  ;  ~~'  
Wednesday, April 17, 1991  The Observer  page 19  
SPOR'TS BRIEFS  Patriots continue negotiations with Ismail  

•Sports 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third noor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must bn in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 

•Attention 
campus referees: Anyone interested in officiating Bookstore Basketball games should contact Mike Flecker at 283­:i024, 1126 Grace. $8/game. 

•Applications 
are being accepted for Observer sports writing positions. Give your name, campus address and phone number to Dave Dieteman between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m. at the Observer office, third noor of LaFortune. 

•Attention 
Crew Members. a mandatory meeting will be held tonight at 7:30 pm in 127 Nieuwland. The meeting is to pay for Madison and finalize Hent-A-Rower, so bring your checkbooks. 

•Stepan 
Courts will be taken at 7:00 pm on Tuesday and Wndnesday for the Women's Bookstore Final 32 round. 

•Fellowship 
of Christian Athletes will be playing softball today at 4:30. If interested, meet in front of Stepan Center. Anyone with questions should call Mark Zoia at 283-1606. 

•Walk 
in the fresh air with some friends. Begin your 30 minute walk in front of Washington Hall at 12:10. 

•The 
One Night Bowling Tourney will be held on Sunday, April 21, at 8:00 pm at University Lanes. Teams consist of four ND stuclfmts, in a best of three games tournament. Register in advance at NVA. It costs $5.25 per person which includes bowling and shoes. 

•The 
Lake Michigan Shoreline Bike trip is Sunday, April 


21. The group leaves the Library Circle at 10 am and returns at 3 pm. Advanced registration is required at NVA, which includes a $7 fee for transportation to and from Lake Michigan. Must have own bike for 25 mile round trip. 
Capable. Affordable. Adaptable. Affordable. 
T~rtable. 
Affordable. 
Available now­limited supply! 
When it comes to increasing network and the Apples SuperDrive~ disk productivity at an economical price, there's drive, which lets the Classic read from and no tool that's more able. write to MS-DOS, OS/2, and ProDOSsftles. 
Meet the Macintosh"Classic" computer. The Classic C'an easily go where you It's the most affordable Macintosh, yet it can need to go, when you need to go there. Its handle avariety of basic home, office, and integrated design, light weight and built-in classroom applications, such as word carrying handle are ideal for aperson on processing and spreadsheet analysis. the move. 
The Classic is acomplete Macintosh. So come in and see ademonstration. Its monitor, keyboard, mouse and system And see anew value in personal software are all included, as are extras you computing that couldn't be more might not expect-such as the ability to respectable. Or affordable. 
Available. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Offu l" of University Computing Coml'llling Center/Math Building 
l'honc: 239-7477 
Hour,; Mon. ·Fri., 9:00-5:00 
C 19'i0 API* Compl*<. 111< Appl<.lh< Appl< k't". ~"*""· Supm-...t Pdx>;"" ~lndmwk.• of Appl<-f.ompUa": "" a..i< is a ........... ll>dmwi< ilc<nord"' Applt'(mtpuk'f, lnr M."-I)()S~.:&I't'JD.VItd bal:kmilrk(lf Mli.'ftwftUxptnbOO Ui/215a ~t.'TI"litr.Kk.-markcllrKmalionalflusn.'s hbl.:brnCorpmbOO 
(AP) -The New England making a mistake if he allows ceiver, returner and occasional Patriots talked contract with Ismail to sign with the running back. Haghib "Rocket" Ismail Tuesday Argonauts. Conversely, the first-round while continuing to suggest they "In the long term, going to picks in the last two drafts, might deal the first pick in the Canada would be a mistake, George and Troy Aikman of NFL draft for the right price. even if you get a little less Dallas, are quarterbacks, whos1~ 
Sam Jankovich, the Patriots' money here," the agent said. career will span a decade or new president, met with Ed "What are you going to tell the more barring injury. That gives Abram, the agent for Ismail players you want next year? the Cowboys and Colts more who is reportedly seeking a $3 That you took your first major time to fill in bodies around million a year contract. Ismail client to what is basically a mi­them. reportedly has been offered $6 nor league?" "If we felt that way, we million over two years to sign Jankovich said the Patriots wouldn't being doing this," with the CFL's Toronto were exploring several options. Jankovich said. "Field position Argonauts. including a trade; taking Ismail is important. Anyone who can 
"We're making a little even if he's not signed, or tak­get you a lot of yards quickly is progress," Jankovich said. "I ing another player with the first hard to find. You can catch a feel very good about where we choice, probably Notre Dame short pass and run it a long are and where we're going. cornerback Todd Lyght. way." We're continuing to make every "You never say never," he said. Still, he acknowledged the effort to sign him." While Jankovich didn't identify other options. 
The suspense conceivably teams, sources said New Atlanta is the most likely can­could continue right up to the England has talked with didate for a trade because it time commissioner Paul Atlanta, which has two first­has the third and 13th picks. It Tagliabue opens the draft at round draft choices. received the latter as part of the noon EDT Sunday. Some football executives don't deal that gave the Colts 
The Patriots and Abram re­envy New England's position. George's rights in return for main apart on a deal for Ismail, Indianapolis' first-rounder last the first high-profile player That's because while Ismail is year plus tackle Chris Hinton handled by the agent and his clearly the most talented player and wide receiver Andre Rison. "Team Rocket." The $3 million available, he's not what's average deal he is seeking known as "a franchise player" Sources said the Patriots were would be far beyond the $11.6 in the strictest sense -some­seeking the Falcons' No. 3 million over six years that Jeff one around who a 1-15 team overall pick, which they would George got last year from like the Patriots can rebuild. probably use on Nebraska Indianapolis. For while he averaged 14.4 linebacker Mike Croel. In addi­
One agent who represents yards each time he touched the tion, New England would get more than 50 NFL players said ball at Notre Dame, he only got the Falcons' second-round picks Tuesday that Abram would be it 8-10 times a game as a re-both this year and next. 
Ewing takes over in extra period as Knicks down 76ers 
NEW YORK (AP) -Patrick Ewing scored 38 points as the New York Knicks survived 25­percent shooting in the second half to defeat the Philadelphia 76ers 108-99 in overtime. 
Ewing scored eight of the 13 points scored in overtime by the Knicks, who managed only 12 points in the final period. 
Hersey Hawkins, who had 30 points. scored three of the four points in the extra session for Philadelphia. 
Magic 113, Hawks 106 
ORlANDO, Fla. -Scott Skiles and Otis Smith each scored 25 points Tuesday to lead Orlando to a 113-106 victory over Atlanta, damaging the Hawks' hopes of finishing fifth in the Eastern Conference. 
Atlanta trailed Philadelphia by one game for the fifth posi­tion in the playoffs before the loss. The fifth-plaee team will play the fourth-place team, likely Milwaukee. The sixth­place team will draw the No. 3 finisher, probably the defending champion Detroit Pistons. 
Spurs 128, Clippers 98 
SAN ANTONIO -David Hobinson had 24 points, 13 re­bounds and seven blocked shots as the Spurs moved another game closer to their second straight Midwest Division title. 
Hobinson had 13 points in the game's first 10 minutes ­matehing the Clippers' team to­tal to that point. lie did not play ­in the fourth quarter. Sean Elliott added 17 points for the Spurs. 
Correction 
-
In Tuesday's Observer, the first name of the Valedictorian for Saint Mary's College, Beth Henaldi, was omitted. Renaldi is a political science and English literature major from South Bend. The Observer re­
ets the error. 



·-·--~-··--~ 
page 20 The Observer 


Rangers defeat Indians 3-1; Darwin notches first AL win 
CLEVELAND (AP) -Brian Downing extended his torrid start with four hits and Kevin Brown got his first victory since last July as Texas spoiled Cleveland's home opener. 
Downing went 4-for-5 with a double. three singles and one RBI, making him 8-for-10 since he was activated Saturday. He missed the opening of the sea­son after fracturing a bone in his right hand during spring training. 
Brown (1-1), who had yielded 18 runs in his previous 14 2-3 innings, had a no-hitter until Albert Belle singled with two outs in the sixth inning. The right-hander allowed three hits, struck out three and walked three in seven-plus innings. 
Red Sox 5, Royals 2 
BOSTON -Tom Brunansky, Wade Boggs and Mike Marshall hit solo homers as Boston ended a 22-inning scoring drought, beating Kansas City 5­2 Tuesday. 
Danny Darwin (1-1) got his first American League victory in five years. He allowed five hits, including Kurt Stillwell's two-run homer in the eighth, struck out seven and walked one in 7 2-3 innings. 
White Sox 4, Yankees 3 
NEW YORK -Chicago remained baseball's only un­beaten team as Robin Ventura delivered a run-scoring double with two outs in the lOth inning Tuesday night to give the White Sox a 4-3 victory over the New York Yankees. 
With two outs in the 1Oth, Lance Johnson singled off Steve Farr (0-1) and Ventura hit an opposite-field double to left. 
Scott Radinsky (1-0) got the last out in the ninth for the vic­tory and Bobby Thigpen picked up his fourth save by retiring the side in the lOth. 
Melido Perez, making his first start of the season, held the Yankees without a hit until Alvaro Espinoza singled to cen­ter field with one out in the fifth inning. 
Tigers 6, Blue Jays 2 
DETROIT -Travis Fryman hit a three-run homer and Rob Deer, moved up to third in the batting order, broke a 1-for-18 slump with a triple and double Tuesday night as the Detroit Tigers defeated the Toronto Blue Jays 6-2. 
Bill Gullickson (1-0) gave up two runs on four hits before leaving the game after 6 2-3 in­nings when he was hit on the pitching hand by Mark Whiten's line drive. Mike Henneman went 1 1-3 innings for his second save. 
National League 
Cubs 4, Phillies 3 
CHICAGO -Damon Berryhill singled home the winning run with two outs in the 13th inning as the Chicago Cubs beat the Philadelphia Phillies 4-3 Tuesday. 
It was the fourth straight victory for the Cubs and the third straight loss for Philadelphia. 
Mitch Williams (0-1) hit lead­off batter Shawon Dunston with 

-
a pitch to open the 13th. Dunston went to second on a sacrifice by winning pitcher Mike Bielecki (2-0), took third as Jose Vizcaino grounded out and scored the winning run on Berryhill's line single to left. Darren Daulton of the Phillies struck out five times, one short of the major league record for an extra inning game. 
Pirates 4, Mets 2 

PITTSBURGH -Andy Van Slyke hit a tie-breaking two-run homer in the sixth inning and the Pittsburgh Pirates ended a three-game losing streak by beating the New York Mets 4-2 Tuesday night. 
Randy Tomlin, making his first start of the season, sur­vived solo homers by Hubie Brooks in the fifth inning and pinch-hitter Mark Carreon in the seventh to pitch seven in­nings for the victory. 
Braves 10, Astros 4 

ATLANTA-Terry Pendleton's three-run double keyed a seven-run eighth inning Tuesday night as the Atlanta Braves won at home for the first time this season, 10-4 over the Houston Astros. 
Pendleton's hit to the gap in left-center field off reliever Curt Schilling broke the Braves' three-game home losing streak. 

Student Union Board 
Presents A Lecture: 
Towards Building a Family Rights Movement 
by Philip F. Lawler 
Director of public affairs for the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights 
Mr. Lawler is the author of four books, including The Ultimate Weapon (a study of the American Catholic Bishops' pastoral letter on nuclear weapons) and Coughing in Ink (a critique of American higher education). He is the editor of Justice and War in the Nuclear Age, and American Capitalism:The Catholic Challenge. 
Thursday, April 18 8:00pm 
Galvin Life Science Bldg. Auditorium 
(between Comp/Math & Stadium) 
ay 

Loue• The Keenan Guys from 4W 
Read Only HYou're Planning To: 
ltfspend the Summer in Omaha (or nearby) 
t('Take Summer courses 
Then attending Creighton University Summer Sessions makes a lot of sense. Creighton offers: 
• 
five Summer sessions to choose from ­day and evening classes 

• more than 200 Summer courses 

• 
small classes 

• 
reduced summer tuition. 


Creighton is consistently cited by national publications for academic excellence and as an educational bargain. 
Call or write today for more information and your copy of the Summer Sessions '91 Bulletin. 1..800..637..4279 
CREIGHTON 
UNIVERSITY 
2500 California Omaha, NE 68178 
SMC tennis team crushes U. of Chicago at home 
Special to the Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team (4-3) defeated the University of Chicago 8-1 yesterday afternoon in a home match. 
The Belles were led to victory by the tandem of Sarah and Ellen Mayer. Sarah, a senior, defeated Wana Jo Watson, 6-3, 6-1, at number-one singles. while her sister Ellen, a junior, beat Mary White, 6-2, 6-3, at number-two singles. 
The siblings then teamed up at number-one doubles to crush the Watson and White duo , 6­0, 6-1. 
All eight of Saint Mary's victories were in straight sets, including Marie Koscielski's 6­1, 6-1 thumping of Elan a Thor­pe at number-three singles. 
The Belles next see action this afternoon at 3:00 p.m. at home against the University of Toledo. 


Men's tennis readies for final home match vs. Michigan 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
The seniors on the Notre Dame men's tennis team will hav1~ several goals in mind when they play in front of a home crowd for the last time today in a dual meet with Michigan. 
After not being invited to the NCM tournament last year, the team and especially the seniors would like to receive an invita­tion this year. 
Senior Hyan Wenger would like to see the team at the NCAAs this year. "It (making the NCAAs) has been a goal of the team all year after we came so close last year. I'll do whatever I can to help the team realize that goal," he said. 
The team closes their home season this afternoon just a few days after capturing the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference championship. The match holds special meaning for the seniors. 
"It's kind of sad. I've had four fun years playing for Notre Dame with good guys and great coaches. It hasn't really hit me yet that this is my last home match," said Wenger. 
Team captain Paul Odland expressed similar feelings about his last home match. 
"It's bittersweet. We control our own destiny. There's no way we'll be ashamed of our season, because we worked hard all season," he said. 
The 19th-ranked Irish will have to remain intense against the Wolverines, who come to Notre Dame ranked third in the region and sporting a 10-3 overall record. With a 16-10 record, the Irish are ranked second in the region just above the Michigan squad. 
@00~ OOO@[}{)IJ rnl@W[b000@ IJ@QJJOOOO~~ ~SUN~~Y, APRIL 21 8:0~.~~/:::;; UNIVERSI1Y..LANES ON IRONWOO i@ .·... ? FbUR PERSON TEAMS ·······••• :) !.[;::::··;• { > NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ONLY BEST OF THREE GAMES REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT NVA $5.25 PER PERSON INCLUDES BOWLING & SHOES SPONSORED BY NVA  

WVFJ am 640 would like to congratulate Winners ofthe 1991 N~~~ 2nd: Tartar Gun 3rd: 5 o'clock Shadows 4th: Jester Ifyou missed the N azz, you can still hear great campus bands. Look for The Jericho Sessions. An all-original CD compilation featuring campus bands. On sale April24. Brought to you by WVFI am640.  
Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 


Wednesday's match holds several repercussions in terms of an invitation to the NCAA tournament. A strong showing against the respected Michigan team could improve the Irish's ranking and their chances of making the tournament. 
Last year, the Irish, ranked 16th in the nation, were not in­vited, but the 17th-and 19th­ranked teams were. Notre Dame's schedule was cited as the reason. With a tougher schedule this year, the Irish are hoping to win a bid, but still standing in their way the rest of the season are Michigan, Wisconsin, and Ball State. 
Barring any unexpected problems, junior David DiLucia, sophomores Hon Rosas, Mark Schmidt, Chuck Coleman, Andy Zurcher, and Will Forsyth will be playing for the Irish. According the Notre Dame coach Bob Bayliss, the group is "healthy and ready to go." 
They will most likely face Michigan's David Kass, Dan Brakus, Scott Cuppett, John Karzen, Mitch Hubenstein, and John Lingon. 
Kass will provide a formidable threat to DiLucia. Ranked in the top 10 as a sin­gles player all year, Kass is one of the quickest players in the country. Brakus, one of the top players in Canada, could also cause problems for the Irish. 
"Michigan is a powerful team, aggressive and very danger­ous," said Bayliss. "We will have to be at our best to beat them." 

SPORlS SHORTS 

•HOUSTON -Defending champion Katerina Maleeva o Bulgaria used a steady serve to overcome erratic Christina Papadaki of Greece on Tuesday night in a second-round match o the $350,000 Virginia Slims of Houston. 
Maleeva, seeded fourth, lost only one point on her serve in tlH~ first set and put 70 percent of her first serves into play as she beat Papadaki, 6-3, 6-2 in a 67-minute match. 
"I didn't have much fun because all she did was miss," Maleeva said. "The second set she was missing so mut:h but I was glad we had some battles at the end." 
Sabo loses in divorce trial 
•LANSING, Mich. -Chris Sabo has struck out in the Michigan Court of Appeals. 
The $1.25 million-a-year Cincinnati Reds third baseman must pay 10 percent of his salary, or $125,000, as alimony to ex-wife Catherine Sabo, the court ruled in a decision released Monday. 
"Given the personal sacrlnces she made for his now-successful major league baseball career, and the noticeable diserepan<~y be­tween their earning potentials, the amount of alimony Is fair and equitable," the three-judge panel unanimously rul<ld. 
The Sabos met at the University of Michigan, where he play~~d baseball and studied history while she was an education major. They were married in 198a, the year he dropped out of school after being drafted into the Reds' minor league system. 
The couple separated six. weeks after the 1988 sHason began, when Sabo filed for divorce. Circuit Judge Honald Taylor ordered him to turn over 10 percent of his salary as alimony for five years, beginning in 1989. 
On appeal, Sabo argued that his ex-wife was not entitled to al­imony based on the short duration of their marriage and her own professional skills and college degree. 
"If Chris Sabo were injured and lost his baseball job, his only other job skill would be 'flipping burgers,"' his legal papers said. 
Drexler named NBA Player of the Week 
•NEW YORK -Clyde Drexler of the Portland Trail Blaz~~rs, who led his team to four straight victories that clinched the Pacific Division title last week, has been named NBA Player of the Week. 
Drexler averaged 25.5 points, 7.5 rebounds and 5.0 assists as the Blazers stretched their winning streak to 14 games, second· longest in the league this season. He shot .623 from the field, in­cluding .455 from 3-point range. 
God gives each peiSOn one lifetime. What are you doingwithyours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime 
-
of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C Congregation of Holy Cross 
-

-~--------~~~ ~-~---~­
page 22 

Softball splits twin bill with Sycamores 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame softball team (19-19) split a doubleheader with Indiana State yesterday afternoon, winning the opener, 4-0 and losing the nightcap, 6­1. 
In the first game, junior Missy Linn pitched her fourth shutout of the season to raise her record to 9-10. Linn gave up only four hits and did not walk a batter. 
The Irish gave Linn all the support she would need in the fourth inning when Megan Fay hit a two-run single to score Ronny Alvarez and Ruth Kmak. Notre Dame tacked on two insurance runs in the sixth off losing pitcher Heather Fuller (6-9), who was hurt by three Sycamore errors. 

Indiana State (11-24) made up for its lack of offense quickly in game two, scoring two runs in the first. Connie Fiems and Lisa Watkins hit back-to-back doubles with two outs off Irish starter Carrie Miller (3-5), followed by Cindy Wilson's RBI single. 
Notre Dame answered back in its half of the first when Laurie Sommerlad reached on a Sycamore error, took second on a wild pitch, advanced to third on another error, and scored on Rachel Crossen's two-out single. 
Indiana State put the game away in the third, scoring two more runs off Miller. The Sycamores then tallied twice in the fifth off reliever Staci Alford to account for the final score. 
The Irish are next in action today at 3:30 p.m. on the Notre Dame Softball Field, hosting a doubleheader with Saint Joseph's (7-11). 
Magic dishes his way to NBA assist record 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) ­James Worthy first met Magic Johnson when the two were teenagers -Johnson was a star at Michigan State trying to convince Worthy to join him there. 
Worthy didn't, attending North Carolina instead, but Johnson made an impression on him. 
"He was a real nice person then, and that hasn't changed," Worthy said Monday night after Johnson, his teammate with the Los Angeles Lakers for nine seasons, surpassed Oscar Robertson as the NBA's assist leader. "He was raised the right way, his parents deserve a lot of the credit. 
"He's such a giving person. That makes this record so ap­propriate." 
Johnson, the conductor of "Showtime" for the Lakers since 1979, got 19 assists in a 112-106 victory over the Dallas Mavericks. 
Playing in his 12th NBA sea­son, Johnson needed nine as­sists to break Robertson's record of9,887. 
Robertson got his total in 1,040 games over 14 seasons, averaging 9.5 assists. Johnson now has 9,898 assists in 871 games, an average of 11.4 as­sists per game. 
The record-tying assist came with 6:46 left in the second quarter when Johnson set up Worthy for a short jump shot. 
Johnson got his record­breaker with 5:44 left in the pe­riod, lobbing a pass to Terry Teagle, who made a 15-foot turnaround jumper from the right baseline. 
Worthy said he wasn't disap­pointed he didn't get to score the record-breaking basket. 
"Not at all," he said. "We just wanted to make sure he got it." 
Johnson said he tried to get the ball to Worthy twice, "but he wouldn't take the shot." 
Teagle said he would have preferred for either Worthy or Byron Scott to have scored the big basket because they've been Johnson's teammates for so long. 
"But you have to take your shots," Teagle said. "I think it's 

Soon after Johnson surpassed Robertson's record, he was in tears during a 15-minute on­court celebration before a sellout crowd of 17,505 at the Forum. 
"I figured it would be emo­tional," he said. "I thought about all the times we played shirts and skins, hoping one day to get into the NBA. Then finally getting into the NBA. ... 
"I cried for all the times I shoveled snow off the walk and practiced hook shots with my dad (in Michigan growing up). I cried for my dad. He's the one -he's the only reason I'm here. He explained to me how to share the basketball." 
Johnson's father, Earvin Johnson Sr., watched the game via satellite from his home in Michigan. 
It was a rather interesting irony that Teagle was on the receiving end of the record­breaking assist since Teagle wouldn't be with the Lakers right now had it not been for Johnson's generosity last Seotemb?.r. 
_. The 
Ad Hoc Music Panel has selected 
BONE FOREST 
as the opening band for 
The Guess Who/An Tostal Concert 
on Saturday, April27 Sponsored by the SUB Music Committee 

Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION L ss3-19s9 
Master Mini War<'hou~c s 
Wednesday, April 17, 1991 


sort of symbolic of Magic's -,~-----.;.....;;.,;;...;;;.;.;;~.;;.;....;,..;.,;:.:.;,..;_~~~~,:_--"""".!JI 
approach. He doesn't care who · 
makes the shot. 


Happy 21st Birthday Steue I 
"It feels good to be a part of history. He broke a fabulous record. It didn't even dawn on me that I'd be the one." 

-
-

Mom, Dad, Uncle Ed, and Greg 


Wednesday, April17, 1991 
The Observer page 23 
-


CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday ACROSS 27 Straying 56 See 20 Across 7 p.m. Film: "The Modern Marian Apparitions." Auditorium, 31 Man, for one 62 Ennead
1 Mimicked 
Haggar Hall. Sponsored by Theology 245. 32 Gaunt &4 Raise spirits 
5 Italian marble 33"0nce-a &5Irene of "Fame"
city7 p.m. Film: "Secret Beyond the Door." Annen berg Au­time ..." && Henpecks
10 Preminger or 
ditorium, Snite Museum. 36 Picture 67 Nostrils
Kruger 40 Ringling rivals 

&8Romanway 7:30-9 p.m. Presentation: "Internships With Pegasus 43"Doe,-,a 69 Short aide? 
14 Prevaricator 
15 Actor Werner female. "
Productions." Five salaried interns are being sought for the 70 Declares
1&8ooted

1991-92 academic year. All sophomores and juniors who 44 Where Socrates 71 Profound
17"-boy!" 
strolled

possess an interest in planetary seience and education are 
18 Golden Girls' 45Weightinvitnd to apply. Haggar Collnge Center-Parlor. 
town allowance DOWN 19 Florence's river 46 Viziers'
8 p.m. Saint Mary's Theatre, "Independence," directed by 1 Landed 
20 With 56 Across, superiors
Hoberta Hude, ()'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. 2 Core 
P. T.'s 48 Family of poet
Sponsored by music department of Saint Mary's College. 3 Facility 
description of Lizette his circus 4 Bore 
50 Knave, to

9 p.m. Film: "Why Vietnam?" Annenberg Auditorium, Snite 5lmpetus
23 Cochlea ShakespeareMuseum. location 53 Shakespeare's & Korean, e.g. 24 The Bard's wife town 7 Roller on ice 
Thursday 
25 Picasso props 55 Jackie's second &Identical 9 Gets up
11:30 a.m. Hospitality Luncheon for the Benefit of Women 10 Explorer
Unitnd for Justice and Peace. Center for Social Concerns. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Johnson Sponsored by Centnr filr Soda! Concerns. 
-:-r:::-r.:T.:"l 11 With 52 Down.
S T A V E S F P D A S K S circus 
-----------------------H A V E N T A E E T U N A 
1

LECTURES A L E A T HIE A I T A G E S 
12 Of sounds of 34Khyber-­
----------------------H E A M I T ~ E U G E. A L S 
music 35 Canadian prov. 

Wednesday -oA A E :DIN E A A L v 
13Aromas 

37"Woe!" 21 Sprinted
L I M ~~~~ S H I M.. 38 Actor in "Pretty
4 p.m. Lecture: "!low To Use Hesume Exp11rt." Jeff Rice of A LoT l'[rt' M EIN A C T 22 Actress Shire of Woman"Career and Placement Services. lleld at Career and Placement M 1 N. B A L A N c E • p o 1 "Rocky" 39 "-ofLauraServices. Sponsof!ld by Carep,r and Placement Services. p A T N A E N T 0 S IL A M 2&Shem Mars" 
descendant
-P 0 L S~ 'E~ C IE T E 
41 Goads7:30 p.m. Earth Day, "Nuclear Energy: Promise or Peril?" G A E A s ~~ Cflrr-A H­27 " .. . ere I saw 42 A noblewoman Hichard Tarara, associate professor of chemistry and physics, R E L • A o E ~. c L o v E A 

" 
47 Greek goddessand Josnph Miller, associate professor of psychology. Boom 304 E N 1 G M A T 1IC 0 L 1 v E 28 Scan of wisdom Haggar, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Women for the E T E sI T A T A F A C E D 29Uncommon 49ChemicalEnvironment, student govern.ment, Peacemakers, the Peace N E A A E L Y S T A E N D 30 Temper steel ending

Support (1roup and Saint Marys Recycles. 
7:30 p.m. 1991 Red Smith Lecture in Journalism, "Ninety 

Feet is Perfection," Dave Kindred, associate editor, "The 
MENU 

National." Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponson1d by Coca-Cola USA, honors the 1927 Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 

graduatn who become one of America's revered sportswriters. 
Stir Fry Beef & Green Pepper
8:15p.m. Lecture: "Intelligence in a Complex World," 
Chicken Pot Pie

William Webster, director of C.I.A. Auditorium, Hesburgh 
Fettucini Alfredo

Library. Sponsored by student government. 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

JAY HOSLER
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON SPELUNKER 
In a barbarian faux pas that quickly cost him his life, Garth Is caught drinking his gruel with pinky fingers extended. 

50 Letter-turner White 51 Costa Rican statesman 52 See 11 Down 53 Cognizant 54 Member of the electorate 
57 Big name in Norway 58 Tart 59 Fixed fee &o Aspen, e.g. &1 Support for a lamp shade &3 He is, to Hadrian 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75q: each minute). 



MOVIES: SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE: THURS 18-HEATHERS 8 AND 10:30 PM 
A BACKSTAGE IDSTORY 
THURS APRIL 18 -8 PM7:30 AND 11 PM 

CCE AUDITORIUM

CUSHING AUDITORIUM $2 
TIX $3 LAF. INFO DESK

POPCORN $1 
Yl.n'IOS tal is going to 6e a 6fast tfiis year aruf you aruf your friuuf.s ca1t 6e an integra£ part of it! 
•AnTostal Dorm Representatives• We will meet in the SUB office @ 7 pm WEDNESDAY, April 17th 

It is imperative tliat you sliow up!!! ~)'our dorm is re{ying on you! 
I ust • Doys until ··The Best College Sp,ing 'estit~olf. 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • .,. .,. ---• '"' --., ' ~ • a. • •. • • a. ... •• a• ••a ~· 
--------~--­

-
Sports 
page 24 Wednesday, April 17, 1991 
Kindred to deliver Red Smith Lecture 

By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

Following a grueling 27 -game road schedule to open up the season, the Notre Dame base­ball team sought to find a rhythm in the comforts of home. 
After sweeping a three-game series against Xavier this past weekend, the Irish (19-12) look to continue their solid play as they take on Chicago State in a doubleheader tonight at Covaleski Stadium, starting at 5:00pm. 
"It's great to play well," said Irish coach Pat Murphy, "and we have been starting to play with a bit of an attitude since we've been home. We had a few meetings to talk about attitude, and I think the team is taking it to heart. 
The Irish have come up win­ners against Chicago State in 12 of their last 13 meetings, but, says Murphy, "They play tough every game, with everything to gain and nothing to lose. After a while, it can start to catch up with you a bit." 
In the first game of the dou­bleheader, freshman Tom Price (3-2) is slated to pitch for the Irish. Price, a highly recruited freshman out of Edwardsville, Ill, has fit well into the Irish starting rotation, and Murphy feels that he can count on six quality innings every time Price pitches. 
The nightcap has Pat Leahy scheduled as the probable starter. Leahy was an All­American as a freshman last year, but Murphy feels that such national success has not affected him or David Sinnes, another 1990 freshman All­American. 
"We've talked about their sit­uation," said Murphy, "and they try to block out all of those dis­tractions. Leahy and Sinnes are having better years, but it just doesn't show up in the stats be­cause our schedule has been so much tougher. We wanted to play this way though. If you ask the players how they feel about the schedule, they'll tell you they wanted it like this." 
Matt Haas, a freshman catcher who had a home run 
ag'ainst Xavier, said, "Coach Murphy is great, and he moti­vates well. Mostly, though, we motivate ourselves, and try to stay mentally tough all the time. We've competed against the best teams in the country, and we've been in just about all of the games. It's not like we went in and just got blown off the field, so our record is not frustrating. It's not frustrating 
. when you realize that with a couple breaks, the outcome would have been different." The Irish will be playing tonight's twinbill at Covaleski Stadium, which is the Irish home field along with Jake Kline field, but which Murphy feels is not the true home of the Irish. "We probably get about 200 people for each game at Covaleski," said Murphy. "When we play on the road, we some­times play in front of 5,000 to 6,000 people. It's a huge advan­tage to be a home team and have 5,000 people behind you, because the support does affect young people. If we had a place on campus for the students, they would get involved and would start to realize what kind of program we have." The Irish are finally at home, but they have to face the added adversity of the weather here in South Bend. Three home games have already been rained out in the past week, but the team has stayed focused. They Irish will have plenty of offensive firepower as they bat­tle Chicago State. Captain Joe Binkiewicz went 4-for-9 this weekend, raising his season slugging percentage to .923. Eric Danapilis also had a im­pressive series, going 7 -for-11 with four runs scored and six RBis. Frank Jacobs and Greg Layson will also provide offen­sive sparks for Notre Dame. Murphy recorded his 150th win at Notre Dame over the weekend, and the Irish look to add to that total against their non-conference opponent. The Irish currently stand at 19-12, seeking to strengthen their claim as one of the nation's best and prove that the NCAA made a mistake in not inviting them to the tournament last year. 
Special to the Observer 

Sports columnist Dave Kindred, associate editor of the daily sports newspaper, The National, will deliver the 1991 Red Smith Lecture in Journalism at 7:30 tonight in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
The title of Kindred's lecture will be "Ninety Feet is Perfection." 
The Red Smith lectureship, annually sponsored by Coca­Cola USA, honors the 1927 Notre Dame graduate who be­came one of America's revered sportswriters. 
Administered by the Department of American Studies, the lectureship pro­motes the teaching of writing and journalism and recognizes high journalistic standards. The lectureship was established in 1983, a year after Smith's death. 
Kindred joined The National when it began publishing in 1990. He has been a columnist since 1969, writing for the Louisville Courier-Journal from 1966 to 1977, the Washington Post from 1977 to 1984 and the Atlanta Constitution from 1984 to 1990. 
Honored 15 times in three states as Sportwriter of the Year, Kindred won the Associated Press Sports Editor award as best columnist in America in 1984. He has writ­ten four books, including "Heroes, Fools, & Other 

Editor's Note: Thefollowing is Dave Kindred•s prologue to 
a. tJ{(!graphy of 
rmer Notre Dame quarter­back Joe Theismann written by 'l'hetsmann with Kindred. 
'"Ihe b9y had a dream and it was always the same. He wanted to be a pro quarterback ljke Bart Starr and Johnny Unitas. H(! took their pictures out of magazines and put them up on his bedroom wall, and he would study those pictures as if tb.ere were secrets to be learned from them. 
The boy's bedroom was a place built in the attic by his fa­ther. If you weren't careful, you'd hit your head on the ceil­ing where it slanted down to a walL The bedroom must have been tiny, scrunched under an eave that way, but in the boy's memory it was a grand place of 
By FRANK LaGROTTA 
Sports Writer 1976-81 

Editor's Note: Frank LaGrotta was an Observer Sports Columnist from 1976-81. After covering football and basketball for both The Observer and ND Sports Information, LaGrotta received his BA in American Studies (ND 1980) and his MA in Communication Arts (ND 1981) before going on to cover the NFL for Gannett Newspapers. He is currently a legislator in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives. 
You are a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student, some­where between the ages of 18 and 21. 
You do not remember, most likely because you cannot re­member, when you were three or four or six years old and the University of San Francisco had a basketball team and that basketball team had a record of 29-0. You were too young to know that Notre Dame was hosting San Francisco in a game the Irish had to win to extend its season into the NCAA playoffs. 
You were not on campus the week before the game so you do not remember the atmosphere or the excitement. You didn't attend the Friday night pep rally, nor hear the coach's promise and the students' response. 
"Tomorrow," the coach in­structed, "be in your seat one hour before game time. All you have to do is chant 'Twenty nine -and -one!' and we'll do the rest." 

A native of Atlanta, Ill., and a graduate of Illinois Wesleyan University, Kindred has covered sporting events in 47 states and nine countries. Since becoming a columnist he has written about every World Series, Super Bowl, Kentucky Derby and NCAA Basketball Championship as well as five Olympics. 
Kindred's is the first Red Smith Lecture on sportswriting. Bob Hammel, sports editor of the Bloomington (Ind.) Herald­Times and president of the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association, will respond to Kindred's speech during a discussion period fol­lowing the lecture. 
~,1111A sample of Kindred's work 
imagination and hopes. Next to pictures of Bart Starr and Johnny Unitas, the boy tacked up a copy of ..The Champion's Creed." It began, "If you think you can, you will..." 
Because he could throw bet­ter than most of his buddies, the boy was the shortstop in baseball games and the quar­terback in football. He grew up in a New Jersey town of 10,000 people, an hour's drive from the big city. With his father, the boy would go to the bus station in their little town. They took the Port Authority bus into New York City. They hopped into the subway to Shea Stadium and got out behind the center-field wall. The hoy stood under an open sky and looked up at how big the place was. Years later he would remember what he said the first time he saw it. He said, "Wow." 

Digger's reign full of Notre Dame 'moments' 
Saturday the students were in ball at Notre Dame. Many vic­their seats one hour before tories, many upsets, much ex­game time. citement...too many memories 
"1\vpnty nine-and-one!" to stuff in the space this news­"1\venty nine-and-one!" paper allows. "Twenty nine-and-one!" Lawrence, Kansas, 1978. 
The students did their job. Notre Dame defeats DePaul for The coach kept his promise. its first trip to the Final Four. The television announcers Digger Phelps emerges from named the Notre Dame student the locker room, shirt drenched body the game's Most Valuable with sweat (tears?) and emo­
Player. tionally gives all the credit to Another Notre Dame his players. 'moment' had occurred. "It's a coach's dream to go to 
There were many such mo­the Final Four," he says, chok­ments in the 20 years that Digger Phelps coached basket-see DIGGER/page 18 





