
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1991
VOL. XXIII NO. 140 
· THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Law prof. says war not just 
By BECKY RITZERT "The use of force against Iraq stance on the war. He said he News Writer did not meet this condition of would have even preferred the last resort," said Lewers. He bishops to take a stance oppo­
The events of the Persian Gulf then questioned whether any si­site his own rather than take no War have caused a Notre Dame tuation ever reaches the point stance at all. professor of law, Father William of last resort. Pope John Paul II called the Lewers, to question and The Just War theory, accord­Persian Gulf War, "a darkness ultimately reject the Just War ing to Lewers, also calls for that has cast a shadow over the Doctrine. discrimination between com­whole human community," ac­
"For me, it [the Just War batants and civilians. However, cording to Lewers. theory] simply does not work because of limitations on the "John Paul II continuously anymore, and perhaps it never media, the public has no under­condemns the use of violence, did," said Lewers at standing of the causalities and yet cannot bring himself or the "Questioning the Just War Doc­damage in Iraq, Lewers said. Church to abandon the Just trine," a lecture sponsored by "For me, the Gulf War was War theory," he continued. the Institute for International not simply a war about forcing Peace Studies. Saddam Hussein out of Lewers said that he opposes 
Lewers, who is the director of Kuwait," said Lewers. The war "the use of all force in interna­the Center for Civil and Human was about oil and a weakened tional relations," but that rejec­Rights, said that he "applauded United States, among other tion of the use of force is not a the sanctions" and other defen­things, added Lewers. passive position. It is a com­sive measures taken by the "One lesson of the Gulf War mitment to work for change Bush administration at the out­is clear. America has been and social justice, he said. set of the Gulf Crisis. preparing for war for a gener­Christian non-violence offers 
However, Lewers said that ation, and we can now do the a path to conflict resolution, when President Bush an­job," Lewers added. said Lewers. "Non-violence is nounced "the doubling of Lewers was also critical of the central to the gospels and cele­forces", he could no longer way in which the hierarchy of brated in the Eucharist," he support the effort. the Catholic Church handled the added. 
The use of force is to be a last war. Lewers suggested that resort, explained Lewers as he Lewers stated that he was Catholic social teaching should cited the conditions of pro­disappointed that the bishops lead people to a non-violent portion and discriminably of the took "refuge in abstract ambi­way of life and a new form of Just War theory. guities" rather than taking a conflict resolution. 
University Committee on Governance created to study ND culture 
By LAUREN AQUINO Assistant News Editor 
The creation of a University Committee on Governance which is independent of both the Academic Council and the faculty Senate was one issue addressed by Father David Burrell, chair of the committee. 
"My preferred title for the committee would be the Com­mittee of Faculty Participation on Governance," Burrell said. "This Is our goal," he added, since there is not yet a forum for concerns which affects aca­demic life. 
Additionally, Burrell said that the faculty will try to "fiX" the Academic Council and make it into a working body which will address the issues which had otherwise been unaddressed. 
Some major examples of this new proposal are: 
•the academic council will function by standing commit­tees, since working together will enable the people to learn more about human habits and human interactions; 

•the 
council will be mandated to meet six times a year; 


•its 
composition will change from 18 faculty members to 28 plus residence hall rectors; 

•the 
elections will aim for fair representation; 


•rapid 
agenda circulation to the entire faculty to enable a summer preview; 

•minutes 
published as soon as possible, and fmally 

•elected 
members of the fac­ulty senate are allowed substi­tute delegates who may act 



as a voting replacement. 
"This new document is a modest proposal, however very effective," Burrell said. This proposal was passed by the Faculty Senate unanimously. 
The next issue of debate was that of Discriminatory Ha­rassment, and was proposed by Clark Power. 
The proposal which was passed resolved that "the Office of Student Affairs with consul­tation from the anthropology, psychology, sociology, philoso­phy, and theology departments and the support of the students undertake a study of the culture at Notre Dame focusing on tensions due to gender, race, ethnicity, and sexual prefer­ence." 
In addition, the Faculty Sen­ate passed this proposal of consideration: "Be it resolved that the Faculty Senate urge that the Vice President of Stu­dent Affairs establish a formal mechanism for soliciting stu­dent and faculty opinions in drafting future revisions of du Lac." 


Flanner rector is named academy headmaster 
By CHRISTINE WALSH Another addition to the pa­
SYR's, which are held just perhaps (because they have News Writer rade of new Flanner events was downstairs. You still follow the committed) some violation," "Flanner Week (a spirit week) .. (SYR and alcohol) policy, but said Smith. Another way he 
On July 1, 1991, Brother like Farley Hall." you don't have to worry about meets students is "by going to Michael Smith will bid farewell the 70 percent (required dorm things they attend, the hall to the men of Flanner Hall and Three years ago, Flanner attendance in all-hall SYR's). functions, being a part of their the Notre Dame community to established a dorm-sponsored functions." assume a new post as head­scholarship fund for high school Among the many challenges master of St. Edmond's students. According to Smith, that Smith has encountered "I used to meet each fresh­Academy, an independent "The hall presidents a couple of during his nine years in Flan­man individually... hut now I Catholic middle school in Wilm­years ago, after talking with ner, he said one of the greatest group them in sections or by ington, Del. me, established the Brother hurdles in the hall has been suites... I chat with them... 
Currently, Smith has served Michael Smith!Flanner Tower Brother Mike Smhh dealing with such a large group and you start to put names with as rector of Flanner for nine Scholarship... we give $1,000 of students under one roof. faces," Smith said. years. He teaches composition each year to an incoming I just think the students need The size of the hall makes and literature at Notre Dame, is freshman at St. Joseph's High that time." being a rector in Flanner par­There are three main things a member of the Freshman School. It's a way that Flanner While Smith asserts the im­ticularly challenging, said Smith has learned from the Writing Program Honor Code reaches out to the community." portance oT having SYR's at Smith: Flanner welcomes "a residents of Flanner. "For me to Committee and is a classroom Smith also has supported Notre Dame, he feels that the freshman class... 170 fresh­be successful as headmaster in mentor for doctoral candidates. holding SYR's at Notre Dame, way they are currently held men into a hall, while some Delaware, it is important that I 
as an important and necessary ·and the number that are held other hall might only be bring­be focussed and concentrate on 
Last year, Smith was honored social outlet. are sufficient to meet the social ing in 30 freshmen in the same what I am doing. as rector of the year. A re­needs of students. "I don't think amount of time... It's just a placement for Smith has not yet "Every year, because of the that we need more (SYR's). challenge when you have so I find that the students here been named. new alcohol policy ... Residence many people in the hall." do that In their studies." Sec­
During his tenure as rector in Life has to evaluate SYR's," said I don't think that the numbers ondly, Smith said he has Flanner, Smith has helped fonn Smith, who has been on the have anything to do with it... Still, It is Smith's policy to get learned the benefits of exercis­and change the character and committee (along with a few Again, if you look at the alcohol to know each resident in Flan­ing and the Importance of a traditions of the hall. "While I other rectors) which reviews policy, there are a lot of things ner, one way or another. "First sound body. "The third thing Is was here we started a lot of SYR's with Residence Life. you can do within the bounds of of all, you hope they (residents) to party... to have a kind of a traditions that we didn't have "Even though we realize that the alcohol policy," Smith said. will come to you. They tend to sense of humor and to realize before... like the all-hall there may be some problems There are other alternatives want to get to know you, and that there is a time to just re­Christmas formal-I started (hosting SYR's), I feel it's (the to all-hall SYR's, said Smith. you want to get to know them. lax." that, I guess, seven years ago," SYR) something that's needed "We have, sometimes, within There's another group that 
see Flanner I page 4 

said Smith. here. It may not be perfect, but the course of the year, small you 'have to' get to know... 
• page 2 Thursday, May 2. 1991
I ­
! INSIDE COLUMN orecast for noon, Thursday, May 2 
: 
H L 
70 50 83 64 50 41 72 46 60 47 80 55 67 32 61 50 84 71 8S 65 62 51 50 43 64 56 73 48 83 78 63 50 69 51 54 45 82 56 70 37 69 52 59 47 72 45 61 47 70 54 81 54 
Year of Women is a missed opportunity Tokenism, defined by Mr. Webster and friends as "the making of small, merely formal concessions to a demand, etc." is apparently becoming the trademark of the Notre Dame Administration. Lisa Eaton What? SUFR who? The Year of Women? Try the Managing Editor Year of Small, Merely Formal Concessions-it seems to be appropriate, although a little bit less poetic. To begin with there was the Year of Women. Just one year before Notre Dame celebrated its twentieth anniversary as a co-educational institution, the Year of Women could have been something important and done something substantial for the quality of life that women enjoy at this University. First, the efforts of the wgmen and men who put in many long and bar~ hours on the Y~ar o Women committee should m no way be belittled, but for all of their hard work there is virtually nothing substantial to show for it. Lectures are fine, but talk is cheap, especially on this campus. What happened to the issues that women at this university face every single day? If the University is truly committed to maintaining its "more female" community, more should have been done and more could have been done with the Year of Women. There could have been efforts toward establishing a day care center for faculty members, for example. The Year of Women needs a legacy. There needs to be something that people ten years from now can look upon as a symbol of the University's commitment towards improving the quality of life that women at this university enjoy. What has been left instead is the aftertaste o tokenism. The university appointed high profile and over worked people to committees and task forces and expected that to be enough. Eileen Kolman was appointed chairperson o the Year of Women. She also has many other positions throughout the University which demand large amounts of time, such as Dean o the Freshman Year of Studies. The few women who have positions of au­thority at this university are overworked and are asked to be on just about every committee that is formed. Women, such as Kolman, have proven themselves to he very competent and deserving of appointments to prestigious positions, but it is time to stop using the same women over and over again as a symbol of how the university is attempting to work for women and not against them. Is it unrealistic to expect the University to make the most of the opportunity that the Year of Women provided? If it is then that is a sad reflection upon what this University supposedly stands for; if it isn't, then what is the Administration waiting for? Come on Monk, the time for task forces and committees has past; show the Notre Dame community that you mean what you say by following up your words with serious action. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  
Production Cheryl Moser Jaoquie CalhounToday'a Staff: Lab TechNews John RockAnn Marie Hariman Megan Junius VIewpointRich RileySporta Marl< Mcflra!h Ad Design Jean-Phill1ppe Thole GregWachAccent Jahnelle Harrigan BusinessAnna Marie Tabor Colleen GannonMichael Whitman Rich RileyJohn O'Brien Colette LaForce Circulation Chris Hanely Lu Medeiros The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
•WASHIN TON -President Bush declared the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait "will not stand" without consulting his top military adviser who was urging a diplomatic "containment" strategy, according to an account of 
U.S. decision-making published in Thursday editions of The Washington Post. The adviser, Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, "could not understand why the president had laid down this new marker, changing radically the definition of success" without offering Powell a say, said the account based on a new book by Bob Woodward. Woodward is an assistant managing editor of the newspaper who has written best-sellers about the Watergate affair, the Supreme Court and the CIA. His latest book, "The Commanders," is to be published Friday by Simon & Schuster. 
CAMPUS Computer cluster to be dedicated 
• Notre Dame, Ind. The College of Arts and Letters will dedicate the Davisson Computer Cluster, located in Room 248 O'Shaughnessy, Friday, May 3, at 4 p.m. The Cluster honors Bill Davisson, a professor of economics at Notre Dame for over 20 years, who died Dec. 9, 1989, from liver disease. A pioneer in the application 
OF INTEREST 
of computers to the problems of teaching, writing and research, Davisson worked diligently to bring computing to the College of Arts and Letters. Davisson "spoke for generosity, for compassion, and for high standards and high expectations," a former student said. "And he believed in Notre Dame as a place that could speak for those things as well." Students, staff and faculty are invited to attend the ceremony. 
•Notre Dame, Ind. Alan Howard, ''lf!!i professor of mathematics at the "' University of Notre Dame, has been awarded the 1991 Shilts/Leonard Teaching Award for the College of Science. The award, instituted in 1983 to recognize outstanding teaching, memorializes Rev. James Shilts, a long-time Notre Dame astronomy and astrophysics professor before his death in 1982. The award was endowed by Dr. Eugene Leonard Jr., a surgeon who graduated from Notre Dame in 1940. Howard, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1968, received his bachelor's degree from Rutgers University and his doctorate from Brown University. In 1985 he received from Notre Dame the Madden Award for Excellence in Teaching Freshmen. 
•Interested in Sophomore Literary Festival? If 
you would like to help with the 1992 Sophomore Liter­ary Festival in any way come to an informational meeting at 6 p.m. in the Lewis Parlor. If you have questions, please call Betsy Harkins at 283-3140. 
•A 
memorial mass will be celebrated for Carlos Petrozzi Saturday, May 4, at 5 p.m. in the Log Chapel. The Petrozzi family invites the participation of friends and classmates. 

•SENIORS! 
Career and Placement Services will be set up in the Hesburgh Library Concourse on Tuesday, May 7 and Wednesday, May 8 to collect our "Future Plans/Job Offer ... " forms that we set to you earlier this spring. We will be in the Concourse from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m. both days. There will be plenty of blank forms with us. Please, before you go tell us where you are going. 


•Juniors 
of all majors are strongly urged to submit a copy of their resume and their Resume Expert Disk to the Career and Placement Services office by Friday, May 10. Juniors must meet this deadline if they are to be included in the Resume Book for their particular major. 

•SENIORS! 
There is still time to volunteer for next year. The Puerto Rico Volunteer Program has openings. For more information, stop by or call the CSC as soon as possible. There are other opportunities available as well so hurry over! 

•SENIORS! 
Anyone who Is volunteering next year should come by the esc and give your parents' names and addresses so that they can be invited to the volunteer send-off ceremony. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/May 1 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX A-.: 181.90 Million 208.03 v 2.66 

S&P COMPOSITE 380.29 + 4.94 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,930.20 ... 42.33 
PRECIOUS METALS

GOLD. 
S 3.35to $357.70/oz. Sll..VERi} 5.15¢ to $3.969/oz. 

• 
In 1932: Jack Benny's first radio show made its debut on the NBC Blue network. 

• 
In 1936: "Peter and the Wolf," a symphonic tale for children by Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev, had its world premiere in Moscow. 

• 
In 1945: The Soviet Union announced the fall of Berlin, and the Allies announced the surrender of Nazi troops in Italy and parts of Austria. 

• 
One year ago: The government of South Africa and the African National Congress opened their first formal talks aimed at paving the way for more substantive negotiations on dismantling apartheid. 


~-~-------------~-~----~-~---­

Thursday, May 2, 1991 
Jakab combines service project with classwork 
By Steve Zavestoskl 
News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame community are now being taught to read, write, and speak Spanish through a new program instituted by Notre Dame Spanish Professor Isabel Jakab. 
Currently, South Dining Hall employees are participating in one-on-one learning sessions offered by volunteers in Jakab's Conversational Spanish class. 
"I was planning on having a program combining social work with the students taking this new course. I was thinking of calling it the Hispanic experience," said Jakab. 
It was suggested to Jakab that she carry out her plan, but that it be done on a voluntary basis. 
According to Jakab, by participating in the program, "students will receive the benefit of learning and practicing their Spanish while they arc helping [others]." 
Originally, Jakab approached the supervisor at South Dining Hall to sec if a program could be established to teach the His­panic workers English. 
"She was very delighted. Very happy, because they had been trying to get them into learning to read," said Jakab. 
According to Jakab, there was some reluctance on the part of the employees to take part in the program, but when they understood that they would be helping the students with their Spanish skills, the employees became more willing to participate. 
Presently, volunteer students teach some of the South Dining Hall employees after work on a regular basis. Mary Hogan and Laura Garcia are two Notre Dame students involved in the program. 
Jakab sees the program expanding into a community wide effort. "The South Bend Community School Corporation wants to start a program with us that would provide us with books for the fall," said Jakab. 
She added that with more involvement, a program teaching English as a second language could be established. According to Jakab, this program would be ideal for the University community. 
"Some people do not know how to read Spanish or English. There is a lot that we can do for them." Jakab said. 
In the immediate future, Jakab sees a need for more volunteers. "I would like to have volunteers here in the summer," said Jakab who is concerned that the program may stagnate as the current volunteers leave for the summer. 
According to Jakab, interested students can contact her by leaving a message at the Romance Language department, or by leaving a note in her mailbox. 
U Ps 
MAIL BOXES ETC~ 
Authorized Shipping Outlet 
On Campus La Mans Hall Lobby 
Sat. May 4. Mon. May 6to Sat. May 11 

Stepan Center Basketball Court 
Mon. May 6 to Sat. May 11 

Lyons Hall Basketball Court 
Wed. May 8 to Sat. May 11 




50°/o OFF 
All Boxes 

$1.00 OFF 
Per Box· UPS 



Free Pick Up
Caii277·MAIL (6245) 
(Pick up is free, but no discounts given on Pick-ups) Call Early to reserve apick-up time. 
The Observer 
page3 


The Observer/ Eric Bailey 

Geoffrey Courtney, a Notre Dame senior, smiles proudly.Courtney has recently been honored as the 1991 recipient of the Mary P. Oenslager Scholastic Achievement Award by a Recording for the Blind. 
ND senior wins service award 
Special to The Observer continued to work in that ca­All books are recorded by 
pacity since that time. RFB's 41,000 volunteers. Most 
Geoffrey Courtney, a Univer­In addition, he has been In­RFB volunteers are collegesity of Notre Dame senior from volved in the Sophomore Liter­graduates, and many have ad­San Antonio,Texas, has been­ary Festival, vanced degrees or expertise in 
named a 1991 recipient of a campus debates, and direct­a specialized field. Mary P. Oenslager Scholastic ing the Dugout Club, a baseball Increasingly, RFB needs Achievement Award by Record­alumni and fan network for the volunteers with backgrounds in 
ing for the Blind, a national Fighting Irish. science and mathematics to nonprofit service organization. help meet the demand for books 
As a special honors winner, Recording for the Blind pro­in the natural sciences,he will receive $1,000 to con­vides textbooks, library ser­computer science, engineering,tinue his education. vices, and other educational re­statistics, and economics. 
Courtney, who will receive his sources to people who cannot Almost 25,000 visually dis­bachelor's degree in history and read standard print because of abled people are served each philosophy in May, has been a visual, physical or perceptual year by RFB, mostly students­legally blind since 1987, the disability. It operates 31 from upper elementary through result of a congenital de­recording studios across the post-graduate levels. The an­generative eye disease. He country to meet the escalating nual Scholastic Achievement plans to become a lawyer who demand for recorded books, Awards to outstanding blind deals primarily with civil law especially in mathematics and college seniors emphasize the and the philosophy behind it. science. educational nature of the orga­
About 95 percent of the books nization's service. 
Admitted to Notre Dame in that are borrowed by students For more information about the honors program, Courtney and professionals are registered Recording for the Blind, such as spent the first semester of his with RFB and are already to register as a borrower, to junior year in the University's available in the master tape volunteer to record, or to 
London program. He was pro­library. If a book is not contribute financially, call or moted to student manager of available, however, an individ­write: Recording for the Blind,
the North Dining Hall during his ual may request that it be 20 Roszel Road, Princeton N.J. freshman year and has recorded. 08540; (609) 453-0606. 


MONEY NOW, PAY LATER 
Graduates, we have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work-money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 

NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this loan, you simply write a check! 

RELOCATION· 9.1 °/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to repay. You must also have our Mastercard and line-of-credit. 
Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Separate from the Unlveralty 
~-----------------~-~­
--~--~---­
page4 The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1991 
Iran threatens to return aid 

Flanner 
continued from page 1 
Smith is ambivalent about leaving Notre Dame. "Of course I feel like a senior myself. . . looking forward to the new challenge and change is always good," he said. 
The East, "that's where I am from. I am looking forward to going back to that part of the country. But at the same time I feel sad that I'm leaving here, I'm leaving the people. Now I know what the seniors go through." 
"In my case I think it might be worse because I've been here nine years, a longer period of time. I thought I was definitely ready to go, but I don't think I am now," he continued. 
Smith concluded, "I think I'll feel better once I leave, once I get away from here, but right now it's like what one of the RA's said to me: 'Next year when we come back, it won't be the same, we won't be able to come back and see you,' and that made me feel bad... al­most like they feel they won't have a reason to come back into the hall ..." 
Flanner will lose two assis­tant rectors next year and one of the in-resident priests, ac­cording to Smith. Things will certainly change in the hall. "There will be a whole new group," he said. 


TEHRAN, Iran (AP) -Iran's state-run press said Wednesday that Western governments were shipping inferior goods to Kur­dish refugees that ought to be returned. 
Some Islamic revolutionaries said foreign troops helping to distribute aid should be sent home, too. 
Ahmad Khomeini, son of the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, said in an interview published Wednesday that the arrival of a U.S. military aircraft carrying aid was "obscene." 
The younger Khomeini, a mid-ranking clergyman who often speaks for the radical factions, said politicians should oppose any policy other than stolid opposition to the West. 
"Certainly, Western culture is bound to come to Iran on the 
U.S. military plane, and old blankets are the cheapest price for such a great risk," he was quoted as saying. 
Iran new media and officials complained that most of the relief sent by the United States and other Western countries was of poor quality. 
"Some of the food donated by international agencies is for animals," Tehran radio said. Some tins had 1986 expiration 
D.C. Officials hope to boost summer 
dates, it said. 

Refugees are annoyed at be­ing sent shoes and clothes fit for polar zones, the radio said. 
The Jomhuri Islami daily quoted Iranian Interior Ministry official Ahmed Hosseini as saying all second-hand goods would be returned. 
"From now on, we will accept only new goods from the West," said Hosseini, who is in charge of a refugee commission. 
About 10,000 tons of food and clothing have been sent to Iran to help more than a million Iraqi Kurdish refugees who fled to Iran's borders after Saddam Hussein cracked down on the Kurdish rebellion. 
Last Saturday, a U.S. military plane carrying donated blankets and pillows landed in Tehran, the first such U.S. flight since the 1979 Islamic Revolution that toppled Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. 
Another U.S. relief flight was planned soon, in what is seen as a tiny warming of the frosty relations between the two na­tions. 
Some radicals, who have lost influence under the government of President Hashemi Rafsan­jani, oppose any ties with the West. Deputies in the Iranian Parliament described the U.S. 
aid to Kurdish refugees as "insulting," the Tehran Times reported Wednesday. 

The hard-liners also de­nounced the presence of NATO forces in Iran "under the pre­text of assisting the refugees," the radio said. About 200 Ger­man troops as well as Belgian and French soldiers are ferry­ing supplies to the Kurds on the border with Iraq. 
One of the pillars of Iran's Islamic Revolution was that it would not be dependent on anyone. Radicals have inter­preted that as keeping Iran in constant confrontation with the west. 
Rafsanjani has led efforts to improve Tehran's relations with the West and Iran's gulf neighbors, largely in hopes of getting aid to rebuild the coun­try. 
The Iranian government has provided the bulk of the aid to the Kurds, distributing it through the Red Crescent and other domestic disaster relief organizations. 
But the influx has strained resources in a country that hosts almost 5 million refugees, perhaps the largest refugee population in the world. Most are Afghans displaced by their country's long civil war. 


seat belt use 
For All Seasons 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal highway safety officials on Wednesday announced a sum­mer-long campaign to encour-· age the enforcement of state seat belt laws and to boost the use of car safety belts to 70 percent nationwide by 1992. 
The campaign by the National Highway Traffic Safety Admin­istration features broadcast and print-media messages saying that police are cracking down on drivers and passengers who don't buckle up. 
A suggested print advertise­ment shows a police officer ticketing the driver of a van filled with a vacation-bound family. 
"Summer Bummer," the cap­tion reads, adding this advice: 
"This summer, seat belt laws 
are being enforced. So buckle 
up. Or you might break more 
than the law. And that would be the biggest bummer of all." 
At a news conference, Jerry Ralph Curry, the safety agency's administrator, said that seat belt use has stabilized at about 49 percent and that improvements would save thou­sands of lives a year. 
The agency said lap-shoulder seat belts are 40 percent to 50 percent effective in reducing deaths and 45 percent to 55 percent effective in preventing serious injuries to the occu­pants of passenger cars. 
Thirty-eight states have mandatory seat belt laws but safety agency officials said most are not enforced. 

The officials said enforcement 14-------------------------NI 
and public information 
3/(!"12 

grnctful wootlc11 tulips-5 i11ci11~S In//
campaigns can make a differ­
r:v .fret slnrrtlirrg-window, cuullto:r, slrclvtS 
ence. They said that in Canada active enforcement campaigns 
circle tulip colors;

have increased seat belt usage 
country bh1e mauve soft yellow wlrite rtd 
to 90 percent in most 
circle lcnxrcs color;
provinces. 
walnut slain grtcn 
3for $12.00 + $3.00 S&H

The agency plans to attempt 
send cl1eck for $15.00 or c/1arge Visa/MC (plus exp dale)
to persuade states to focus en­
Indiana residents add 5%

forcement efforts around 
stnd namt. address, city, and zip lo; For All Seasons
Memorial Day, Independence Day and Labor Day. 
P.O. Box 768, Noire Dame, IN 46556 
Order by May 5 and ensure Mothers Day delivery States will also be encour-Add your card or note and it will be included 


measure changes in safety belt
aged to conduct surveys to ~::::;;;;;~;~~;;_;;;;~~=====~ 
usage. On another safety point, the agency on Wednesday sent to
Congress videotapes showing small cars being shattered in 
head-on crashes. 

The tapes are intended to dramatize the Bush administra­tion's assertion claim that dramatically increased auto­
mobile fuel efficiency standards will cost thousands of lives be-, cause they only can be achieved by producing smaller, allegedly more dangerous cars. 
Curry told reporters: "If I can keep Congress from insisting on fuel economy standards that 
are so extreme they cost lives, I can save 2,000 lives a year." 
In one video sequence cars of 4,000 pounds and 2,000 pounds collided head-on at 36 miles per hour. The front end of the smaller car was largely de­stroyed and the test dummy in the driver's seat is surrounded with jagged shards of torn metal. The large car and its dummy suffered far less dam­age. 
tr · .. 4 
~IU ALUMNI ;::::::,~===»~'*''*~~=~·.•.~:f,..w~w.*~t.
SENIOR :,:,::::::::::::::~:~::w.::,:,:,:,~:,!,!,!f.,~=~:::~·~:::~dl 
-

cLuB
-

L..-. 
_. 

Congratulation Class of 1991 
Alumni-Senior Club will be open regular hours on each of the following nights 
Wednesday, May 1 Thursday, May 2 Friday, May 3 
Friday, May 10 Saturday, May 11 
Wednesday, May 15 Thursday, May 16 Saturday, May 18 
And don't miss Cliff Erickson on May 10 and II. Plus, even lower daily specials. 
Thursday, May 2, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Notre Dame valedictorian announced 

Special to The Obeerver 
Robert Buynak, a biological science major from North Can­ton, Ohio has been named valedictorian of the 1991 graduating class. He will deliver the valedictory at the May 19 commencement exercises. 
The other highest ranking graduates from the four colleges are as follows: 
•In 
the College of Science, Laura Eizember, a chemistry major from Greenwood, IN.; and Paul Meyer, a preprofes­sional studies major from Pine Island, Minn. 

•In 
the College of Arts and Letters, Julie Ryan, a theology major from Omaha,Neb; Maria Hhomberg, a program of lib­eral studies major from Dubuque, Iowa; and Michael Bailey, a government and 


Japanese major from Min­The Observer/Man Mittino 
neapolis, Minn. will be Attention! honored. 
Notre Dame Naval midshipmen march in unison during the Military Review Wednesday afternoon outside the Joyce ACC. The Army Navy
•In the College of Business 

and Air Force ROTC students participated in the event. ' 
Administration, Mary Bernard of Troy, Mich.; Jonathan Paluga of Lake Forest, IL.; and 
Pentagon will approve U.S. military recruitment 
Christopher Anderson of 
Youngstown, Ohio will receive honors. They are all accounting majors. 
•In the College of Engineering highest honors will be received by: Patrick Fay of Arcadia, Ohio; Keith Harber of Columbia City, IN; and Dennis Ciplickas of Northridge, Calif.. Fay, Harber and Ciplickas are electrical engineering majors. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The military services have achieved their recruitment goals in re­cent months but it is too soon to assess the impact of the Persian Gulf War, Pentagon officials told Congress Wednesday. 
"The last six months the numbers show the services col-
NEW PHILOSOPHY COURSES FOR FALL 1991 
238 01 Philosophy and Literature, 8:00 MWF, call #3415 
238 02 Philosophy and Literature, 12:15 MWF, call #3416 
244 02 Philosophy of Law, 12:15 MWF, call #3421 
244 03 Philosophy of Law, 2:20 MWF, call #3422 
'-------------------------­
May 2nd .. Jimbo.. Me Mullan turns 22! We Love You Mom, Dad & Jenn 
lectlvely and Individually all met stituted in 1973, was down at least 100 percent of their slightly in October and Novem­goals," Christopher Jehn told her of last year as potential re­the House Armed Services cruits worried about the im-Committee. pending war. 
Jehn, assistant secretary of The numbers increased, how-defense for force management ever, In December and January and personnel, said the Defense and have remained higher in Department's exceeded its ob-the days after the successful jective for signing up recruits war, a 43-day aerial campaign with 102 percent for the first followed by 100 hours of half of the current fiscal year. ground combat. He confirmed that recruiting Jehn said the downturn last
I for the all-volunteer force, in-fall forced recruiters to change 
their approach to deal with parental concerns and focus greater attention on high schools graduates. The result was an increase in recruits, he said. 
Complicating a clear assess­ment of the war's effect on re­cruiting are the planned cuts in the defense budget and reduc­tion in size of the forces, size, the recession and unemploy­ment nationwide and the pro­posed base closings. 
'Star Wars' plume test sends 
space shuttle flipping in flight 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Discovery's astronauts guided the shuttle through a series of fancy flips and twists high above Earth on Wednes­day in a critical "Star Wars" experiment delayed by an er­rant satellite. 
"It's quite a light show," as­tronaut Richard Hieb said. 
The scientific satellite was improperly positioned shortly after being released from the shuttle earlier In the day. NASA delayed its first observation of shuttle engine exhaust plumes until the satellite could be aligned properly. 
The acrobatics began early Wednesday evening, nine hours late, as the satellite orbited 6.2 miles ahead of Discovery. 
Commander Michael Coats fired Discovery's right maneu­vering engine, shaking the ship with a roar and sending out a long exhaust plume. His six-member crew, working via re­
mote control, captured the 
sight with the satellite's in­
frared sensors and television
tO#~RIIT/IfiiT/011£~1 
TlJ TilEtfllcfcfOt1991 
from the Washington, D.C. Alumni Club 
If you're going to be locating in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. area, we'd like to welcome you as a new member of our club. 
For Information Contact: 
Tom McHugh 2700 Farm Road Alexandria, Virg1nia 
22302 703-549-7612 


cameras. 
The firing pushed Discovery almost a mile out of its orbital plane. Coats then ignited the steering jets, causing the shut­tle's nose to flip 180 degrees from north to south. Another engine firing, also scrutinized by the satellite, served as a 
brake. 
After another cartwheel, Dis­covery was back behind the satellite, whizzing around the world once again at 17,500 mph. 
The entire sequence took 27 minutes. "It looked spectacular on the TV," Coats said. 
"Well that's good news," said Mission Control's Kathy Thorn­ton. 
The astronauts began repeat­ing the procedure several min­utes later. Four sets of obser­vations were conducted Wednesday evening as part of a missile-detecting experiment for the Pentagon. Three in­volved engine exhaust plumes, and the other involved plumes from the smaller steering jets. 
NASA flight director Bob Cas­tle said he did not expect the satellite's earlier aiming prob­lems to affect the observations. None were canceled. 
In addition to the plume ob­
servations, which were to con­
tinue Thursday, the satellite 
was to analyze chemicals and 
gases sprayed into space during 
its 36 hours in orbit. 
The astronauts have been 
dealing with equipment prob­
lems since they got into space 
Sunday. Two data recorders for 
three instruments failed hours 
into the flight, causing six 
experiments to be scrapped and putting others in jeopardy. The recorder trouble, as of Wednesday, remained unre­solved. 
The satellite trouble began a few hours after the crew suc­cessfully released the $94 mil­lion spacecraft 161 miles above Earth. Deployment had been delayed a day so the crew could make more observations of the aurora, or atmospheric light, with an instrument running low on coolant. 
The astronauts turned on a sensor to protect the satellite's instruments from the sun. Sud­denly, without notice, the spacecraft's position six miles ahead of Discovery changed drastically, apparently because the sensor detected a bright object, Castle said. 
TWice commands were sent to the satellite to correct its alignment, and twice the 4,200­pound spacecraft moved the wrong way. A third attempt was successful. NASA blamed one error on ground operators and said It was mystified by the other. 
"We're really not sure what happened when we computed it" the second time, Castle said. 
Mission Control delayed the 
first plume observation by one 
orbit, or 90 minutes, then by 
about nine hours after It be­
came apparent the problem 
would not be resolved quickly. 
Three of the seven astronauts 
already were past their bedtime 
and needed to get some sleep. 
The astronauts are splitting 
12-hour work shifts In an at­
tempt to gather as much "Star 
Wars" information as possible 
during their eight-day mission. 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1991 
Gorbachev faces criticism on May Day 
MOSCOW {AP) -Police and troops barred all but invited guests from the city center during May Day ceremonies on Red Square, but that did not save President Mikhail Gor­bachev from stinging criticism. 
Some of the carefully screened guests Wednesday carried photographs of dictator Josef Stalin, and others bore anti-Semitic placards -items that for many years would not have been seen at a May Day celebration. 
Speaking from Gorbachev's side atop the Lenin mausoleum, the head of the official trade union demanded that leaders "be held responsible" for the disastrous state of the country. 
Gorbachev looked somber, in keeping with the mood of the crowd. He waved at protesters and left. 
The customary huge portrait of Soviet founder Vladimir Lenin was missing from Red Square, replaced by rainbow­colored billboards extolling "Peace and Happiness" and "Success in Labor." 
A year ago, tens of thousands of citizens humiliated Gor­bachev and other Soviet leaders atop the mausoleum when they streamed into Red Square at the end of the official parade shouting "Resign! Resign!" 
Turnout this year for the May Day celebrations was the lowest in decades, with only 50,000 P""ple holding special passes allowPd into Red Square. For thP lir..:t t.imP thP r:lllv W:l~ or­ganized by trade unions rather than the Communist Party and the government. 

Elsewhere, events marking the international workers' holi­day included: 
-Former Polish leader Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski joined former Prime Minister Mieczyslaw Rakowski and gov­ernment spokesman Jerzy Ur­ban to lay flowers at the statue of Nike, the Greek goddess of victory, outside the Warsaw Opera House. It was a rare public appearance for the three men. 
-In Paris, Jean-Marie Le Pen, the leader of France's extreme right, led thousands of supporters on a march through the capital to the dismay of the left, which claims May Day as its own. Traditional marches were held by trade unionists and Communists elsewhere in Paris and across France. 
-Scattered violence marred the first May Day celebrations in six decades in a united Ger­many. At least 130 arrests were reported in eastern Berlin. 
-About 15,000 marchers at a rally in Nazareth, Israel, called for separate Jewish and Palestinian states. Arab marchers chanted "put as much money as you want into the settlements, the Palestinian state is still going to emerge." 
Russian leader Boris Yeltsin, Gorbachev's chief rival, was in­vited to the Red Square festivi­t.iP~ hnt. hP W:l~ 1 ROO miiP~ away in Novokuznetsk, Siberia. There, he addressed a May Day rally and negotiated with strik­ing coal miners. 
Speakers at the May Day rally in Moscow pinned responsibility for the country's problems on Soviet leadership. 
"We are seriously talking about hunger" at a time when there is no war, disease or dis­aster to account for it, said Vladimir Shcherhakov, head of the Federation of Trade Unions. Those in power "must be held responsible for it," he said. 
While heavy security pre­vented democratic reformers from PntPrinu RPn Snn:lrP ~Pv­
eral hundred hard-liners hear­ing pictures of Stalin and anti­Semitic slogans were allowed in. 
"Stalinism is the only way to fight for the happiness of ev­eryone, for communism and socialism," said one man, who declined to be identified. 
"No establishment of diplo­matic relations with racist, fas­cist Israel," said one placard. "Privatization leads the people to poverty and the country to failure," said another. 
About 1,000 anti-Semites also demonstrated in Leningrad, nror.IAiminu :liiPui:mr.P to t.hP 
newly formed Republican Party of Russia, and carrying black, yellow and white czarist ban­ners. 
Official speakers in the Soviet capital sharply criticized Gor­bachev's leadership. 
"Comrade Gorbachev! ... You ought to be ashamed to have the post of general secretary of the Communist Party of the So­viet Union!" shouted Viktor Ampilov of the United Front of Workers. 
And Moscow trade union leader Mikhail Shmakov de­nounced "unbridled price rises and thoughtless managerial 
nPr.i<:ion<:" 


THE JERICHO SESSIONS 
an all-original Notre Dame CD Sampler featuring ... 
XYZ Affair Bone Forest 
Doghaus SYR 5 O'Clock Shadows The Turquoise Sidewalk Greg Jeffrey Tony Graffeo Brian Muller Exit 77 
Chisel Jester Chronic Desire Fresh Water for the Horses Ralph Falbo Trio Little Geneva Don McGahn Sigi Loya Dominic Campanella & Chris Nor borg 


On sale for just 8 bucks at the Fieldhouse Mall whenever a band is playing or at the WVFI Studio in Suite 200 Lafortune from 2 -5 p.m. MWF and 4 -6 p.m. TTh. Questions ... call WVFI am640 at 239-6400, 'cause those idiots sponsored this. 

Thursday, May 2, 1991 The Observer page 7 

-

'"".
-
What a view 
AP Photo 

New York's Empire State Building, seen in this June, 1990 photo, turns 60 on Wednesday with a party complete with an Empire State­shaped birthday cake and Fay Wray, who helped immortalize the building in 1933 movie "King Kong." 
'\.. 
HAPPY 21st ON THE 22nd ~ T2! 
II 

Governor blasts college prayer ban 
CONCORD, N.H. (AP) -Keene State College's ban on prayer at graduation and other college functions is an affront to taxpayers who help pay for the school, New Hampshire's governor said Wednesday. 
Speaking at a meeting of the state's Executive Council, Gov. Judd Gregg said that if college President Judith Sturnick ap­proved the ban imposed last fall, she should be fired. 
"I think there's a fundamental flaw in the leadership of that college.... Were I able to muster a majority of (University System) trustees, I would move for immediate (Sturnick's) removal," said Gregg, who's a trustee. 
School spokesman Ronald Paradis said Sturnick would not comment. 
The five-member Executive Council unanimously approved a resolution condemning Keene State's prayer ban. 
Gregg said the ban "basically kicks dirt in the face of taxpay­ers by saying there is no God." 
Mob pleads guilty to racketeering charges 
HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) -A reputed ranking member of the Patriarca crime family pleaded guilty Wednesday to federal racketeering charges for help­ing run gambling and loan sharking in three states. 
Matthew Guglielmetti Jr. admitted traveling in Mas­sachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island with members of the crime family to promote both activities. 
Federal authorities described Guglielmetti of Cranston, R.I., as a captain in the organiza­tion. 
In a plea agreement read in court, Guglielmetti admitted being a member of a criminal enterprise but denied being a member of the Patriarca crime family, New England's most powerful crime family. 
He pleaded guilty to conspir­ing to violate the federal racke­teering statute. Sentencing was set for July 8. He remains free on bond. 
Guglielmetti is one of nine re­puted members or associates of 
I.Buy4-sess1ons atthe7egula7l
I pnce and get 4 FREE • auy 5 I 1 and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 1 Get 6 FREE GET THE IDEA__J7 •
_________ I 
tl-iiiiiiiiiiiiii....:'~·~ -·L-~-----. ­
l§~JO llatir('utting ('o., ] 
INDIAN RIDGE Pl-AZA 
NEXT TO VENTUR!: GRAPE RD., MISHAWAKA 
277-794.6 
Daily9-8 Sat. 9-6 • Sun. 11-5 

Keene State approved the rule last fall after complaints from part-time teacher Arpad Toth, a member of the state chapter of American Atheists. Toth argued that tax money shouldn't be used for religious purposes. 
"We intend to continue to monitor all activities of Keene State College to ensure that public tax monies are spent for education and not for indoctri­nation into religious faiths ei­ther directly or indirectly," Toth said. 
The rule eliminates the invo­cation and benediction from graduation exercises scheduled for May 11. The ban also ap­plies to other official college functions. 
Other state colleges haven't banned religious ceremonies. They are waiting for the U.S. Supreme Court to rule on a case that involves the right of a public school in Providence, R.I., to include prayer in grad­uation ceremonies, said Ronald Rodgers, a University System lawyer. 
the Providence-based Patriarca family who went on trial Tues­day in U.S. District Court. Tes­timony in the case continued. 
As part of the plea agree­ment, the government said it will not call Guglielmetti to tes­tify against the other defen­dants. 
Twenty-one reputed members and associates of the Patriarca family from Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island were indicted in March 1990 in what authorities called the biggest crackdown ever on or­ganized crime in New England. 
After the Hartford trial, seven other defendants arrested in the crackdown will be tried in Boston, including Raymond "Junior" Patriarca, reputed boss of the crime family. 
The government accused Guglielmetti of traveling be­tween Hhode Island and Con­necticut in August and Decem­ber 1989 to attend meetings on a realignment of leadership in the Patriarca family and on the division of profits from gam­bling and loan sharking. 
Man kills his family 
RHINECLIFF, N.Y. (AP) -A 29-year-old man fatally shot his estranged wife and their two children in the head before killing himself, state police said Wednesday. 
The bodies of William Allen Walberg, of Rhinecliff, Dawn Walberg, 26, of Hyde Park, and their children, John, 7, and Kayla, 3, were found Wednes­day morning by Conrail work­ers at a freight yard, said Capt. William DeBlock. 
The couple had been having marital problems and were liv­ing apart, though they were not legally separated, DeBlock said. The children lived with their mother. 
Walberg used a 16-gauge shotgun to kill his family and himself, DeBlock said. The po­sitioning of the bodies did not indicate that anyone was run-
SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, APRIL 29 

1:11 p.m. A Morrissey resident reported the theft of his backpack from the Booka10re basketball courts on Friday, April 
26. 
1:25 p.m. An off-campus student reported receiving a series of harassing phone calla. 
3:05 p.m. A University visitor fell and sprained her wrist In Sacred Heart Church. Security and the ND Fire Department treated the woman. 
3:45 p.m. A University visitor reported damage to his vehicle when the wooden gate arm at East Gate came down on his vehicle. 
10:35 p.m. A Dillon resident reported receiving a harassing phone call. 
11:49 p.m. Security assisted the Fire Department in transporting a Grace resident to St. Joseph's Medical Center. The person was suffering severe abdominal pains. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 30 

7:30 a.m. A University employee reported the theft of her decal from her automobile while parked In the B-1 lot. 
1:59 p.m. Security and the NO Fire Department assisted a University employee sutl8fing from severe stomach pains. The woman was then taken to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
4:02 p.m. A Dillon resident reported the thelt of his compact disc player from the basement of the Architecture building. 
9 p.m. An off-campus resident reported the theft of his bicycle from outside the Alumni-Senior Club on the night of April 27. 
11:211 p.m. Security transported a Flanner resident to St. Joseph's Medical Center lor injuries sustained playing basketball. 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 1 

12:07 a.m. A Knott resident reported vandalism to her automobile while parked In the D-2 lot. The driver's side mirror and taillights had been broken out. 
11:49 a.m. An off-campus student reported damage to his vehicle while parked near Kline field. 
Focus 
on 
America's 
Future 

ning from Walberg, said De­Block, who would not say if there had been a struggle. 
The shootings occurred late Tuesday, DeBlock said. Autop­sies were being conducted Wednesday. 
It appeared the family had gone fishing near the railroad tracks at a small river bay that is a popular fishing spot, De­Block told reporters. 
The isolated area where the bodies were found is about 100 yards from the Hudson Hiver and about a half-mile from a train station. 
Walberg was described as a blue-collar worker, but police would not say where he was employed. 
Rhinecliff is hamlet of about 650 residents, 90 miles north of New York City on the eastern bank of the Hudson. 


Business 

pageS Thursday, May 2, 1991 
Students discuss upcoming internships abroad 
By LAUREN AQUINO corporate world. Shinn has a Assistant News Editor summer internship with JP 
Notre Dame students gathered Morgan in Switzerland. last Monday night to speak Junior Jennifer Degnan also about their business-related shared input at the meeting. internships in foreign countries She will soon travel to the this summer. United Kingdom to work as an 
This presentation was the fmal internal consultant for General function of the Notre Dame Electric. Council on International Busi­Jackie Griesbach, a Saint ness Development (NDCIBD). Mary's student, will work this NDCIBD has moved from four to summer in West Germany for fourteen foreign internships in three months. the last year, said Kelley NDCIBD will also send a dele­Brantmen, co-chairman of in­gation to Europe this summer, ternships. which will include James 
In order to promote more ex­Nappo, Christine Reinhardt and pansion and development; each Steve Kozachok. They will meet member is expected to return with some of the club's current next fall with at least four new contacts and attempt to estab­contacts for the following year, lish further relationships. she added. The delegation plans on meet­
Paul Shinn, chairman, stressed ing the president of Dow Chem­"sensitizing the ND/SMC ical in the United Kingdom, the community" to international vice-president of JP Morgan in business development. He also Switzerland and other govern­emphasized the importance of ment officials and private busi­ethics in business and in ness owners throughout Poland, aspects of life beyond the Hungary and Czechoslovakia. 
Major banks cut their prime lending rates by half a point 
NEW YORK (AP) -Major sagging economy but warned in January. It was lowered by the president's Council of Eco­in 15 years. The discount rate is

banks Wednesday cut their that cheaper credit alone wasn't half a point to 9.5 percent on nomic Advisers, also welcomed the interest the central bankprime lending rates by half a enough to turn the economy Jan. 2, then another half point the reduction, agreeing that the charges on loans to member
point, to a three-year low of 8.5 around. to 9 percent on Feb. 1. economy was "about to turn banks. percent, a day after the Federal It was the third cut this year President Bush quickly around." 
Also Tuesday, the Fed lowered Reserve trimmed two key inter­in the prime, which is used to praised the banks' action: the federal funds rate to 5.75 

est rates to help pull the nation calculate a variety of consumer "That's going to be very good The cut followed an an­
percent from 6 percent by

out of recession. and business loans and reflects for the economy." He predicted nouncement by the Fed on injecting money into the bank­
a bank's cost of borrowing the recession would be over Tuesday that it was lowering ing system. The fed fund rate is
Economists said the lower money. "fairly soon." the discount rate one-half point the interest banks charge each rates should help revive the The prime stood at 10 percent Michael Hoskin, chairman of to 5.5 percent-the lowest rate other for overnight loans. 


The University of Notre Dame continues to be a major source of staff for Price Waterhouse. We are proud to welcome the following 1991 graduates to our firm. 
BOSTON John McGlinn 
CHICAGO David Braun Bob Dahlke Mike Locascio Judy Spengeman 
CLEVELAND Darryl Wodecki 
DALLAS Scott Langlinais 
HARTFORD Richard Lagasse 
LOS ANGELES John Ashby 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Craig Kleis 
MORRISTOWN Deborah Goodrich NEW YORK Stephen Kraljic 
Robert Marsden Dennis McVeigh John Schoen Julie Yoon 
ORLANDO Pat Sheil 

PHILADELPHIA Calvin Allen 
ST. LOUIS Paula Herdlick 
WASHINGTON. D.C. Tom O'Rourke 


Viewpoint
Thursday, May 2, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Buslnaas Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••••••.•.••••••••••••• Monica Yant Advartlalng Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor••••••••••••••••••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......... Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Managar ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor••.•...•..••.•...... John O'Brien System• Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's EditOI"............ Emily Willett Controllar..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views or the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters Is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
1 
I

Editor's note:
SUFR's tactics are legitimate 
A lot of people have had a lot to say. Unfortunately, we don't have enough room for everyone to be able to say it. The View­Dear Editor: America? Does he honestly be­tribution of wealth among the 
point department has recently received a phenomenal amount I am writing in response to lieve that if the media ignores races in this country and to 
of mail on everything from hunger strikers to breast feeders. the barrage of anti-SUFH letters racism, then it will evaporate build economic justice, despite 
And regrettably, your concerns have outweighed our spaces. Hopefully we can pick up where we left off next semester. 
which appeared the April 23 and never bother America the inconveniences to white Thanks for writing, edition of The Observer. Never again? lias he seen the Rodney America. 
Joe Moody 

have r found the ignorance of King video? The media and In concluding his letter, Mr. 
VIewpoint Editor 

this campus more staggering. minorities do not cause Beaven requests that all Ameri­Not one of the letters made any racism-thinking like that found cans "...ignore our minute dif­effort to understand SUFH's in Mr. Beaven's letter does. ferences and accept all people Forum helps dispell SUFR rumors position; they merely berated Hacism is ignorance, and it will simply as human beings. So let's 
Dear Editor: pose, which seems to be the
the group for causing minor continue to be perpetuated un­all start acting as a single race, We would like to take this biggest point of contention, isunrest on this lethargic, less the media constantly calls the human race." Again, I opportunity to thank the mem­not a future "Black LaFortune"apathetic campus. I have no attention to it. question Mr. Beaven's logic. We bers of SUFR who spoke at the or ~Hispanic LaFortune." Ittears in my eyes for anyone who Mr. Beaven also states that cannot all "start acting as a Lyons Hall Open Forum on April would be a place where stu­was inconvenienced by SUFR's America should ignore all race single race" until we are all 25. These forums have been dents of varying backgroundssit-in at the Hegistrar's office. I distinctions; no group, even mi­treated fairly, until we all have held recently in dorms across could acknowledge their her­believe its demands to be norities, should receive uspecial equal opportunities, until repa­the campus, with the intent of itage on a regular, permanentlegitimate, and I believe that its treatment." Therefore, equal rations have been made to peo­increasing awareness and basis, not just on a designatedmembers were warranted in opportunity laws, affirmative ple who have been oppressed understanding of the group's day in the dining hall or librarystaging a protest. action, and SUFR's demands through the years, until the views and needs. lobby. The center would en­The naivete that riddles this should not exist because these majority becomes sensitive to Through this open dialogue, courage and be open to all stu­campus came forth in full things constitute ~special the ways of the minorities. 
many confusions, misconcep­dents who may want to get apower in the April 23 Observer. treatment." In short, the racial harmony tions and preconceptions about glimpse of a culture other thanEach of the letters contained that Mr. Beaven envisions will the group and its methods were their own.
some clement of backward Well, Mr. Beaven says nothing not come until the minorities dispelled. We see SUFR's Ultimately, we would like tothinking, but I found Mr. about the ~special treatment" are shown the respect that they primary premise to be that reiterate the fact that we wel­Thomas E. Beaven's letter to be that many minorities receive in are due and have been due 
because the University has comed and appreciated the
the most disturbing. our cities-wonderful things throughout this nation's history. 
openly and publicly committed chance to talk with SUFRMr. Beaven starts out by say­like inadequate schooling, It is sad that racism exists in itself to cultural diversity, it members on a personal level.
Ing that he sympathizes with poverty, violence and high America today. But is far more must act on this commitment in We perceive this to be the bestSUFH, but in the same para­unemployment. He wants soci­tragic when people want to ig­tangible, visible ways. Re­way to inform members of thegraph he makes one of the most ety to become colorblind. A nore it or do not recognize it for cruiting more minority students student body precisely what it Isabsurd statements I have ever colorblind America, however, what it is. The demands of is not enough. that SUFR seeks, rather thanseen in print: ~ ...racism and the would not realize how closely SUFR are an attempt open Rather, the environment on have students rely on erroneousdiscrimination which it [SUFR] racial lines adhere to the people's eyes and attain fairness campus must be one that em­rumors picked up around cam­spawns will continue to be poverty line. Yes, many minori­and respect. And if SUFR braces aspects of various cul­
issues as long as minorities and ties have achieved economic makes noise and annoys people pus. 
tures, not solely the white mid­the media continue making success, but not nearly enough. while trying to achieve this goal, dle/upper-middle class way of If you fear a separatistthem Issues." Programs like affirmative ac­the more power to them. 
life. An ambiguous, skimpy, movement, then take positiveWhat on earth is Mr. Beaven tion and equal opportunity laws discriminatory harassment steps to avoid SUFR becomingthinking?! Does he really think were not created in order to Patrick Cummings 
policy, six percent minority one through sheer apathy and
that minorities are fueling the promote racial harmony; they Flanner Hall 
faculty and an African­neglect from other students.
fires of racism In modern are meant to combat the ill dis-April 23, 1991 American Studies program that Rather than relying on Ignorant offers too few classes in spite of or distorted Information, seek high demand for them are just a out SUFR members and inquire few examples of the woefully about the facts. insufficient response to minority needs on this campus. Kristin Kommers 
As we understand it, SUFR Katey Charles does not display separatist ten­Slnane Goulet dencies, something of which Hazel Navarro they are often accused. The Lyons Hall multi-cultural center they pro-April 25, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU
OUUfit:)I:JUHY 

1M Aff?AIPwt'U.HAV& 70(£T USW 70 IT, 5/R. THtRE ARE 7WO 
MIU!ON r.a£? HUN61?'1, HU!<TI/IK3 
PE!OPI./3 (1fT 7HI3RE, ANt?~£ 8EIIR MUOI OF 7Ht3 R&SPrJNS/8/WY. 
W W NIWT US 7lJ 5TAI<TMJRK.­ING ON A NW L.ONG-RANf£ 
GM1t PI.JW, '3/R? 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It you realize you aren't so wise today as you thought you were yesterday, you're wiser today.' 
Author Unknown 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

~ -----~---~-~-~--~----­
r 
Viewpoint
page 10 Thursday, May 2, 1991 
SUFR's call for diversity only promotes separatism 
On Wednesday, April 11, Stu­which SUFR seems to value increasingly separate groups. but what its name implies. It dents United for Respect very much. SUFR members If this continues, we will no is a call for separatism on a
Michael E. Allen 
staged a sit-in blocking access also said that their First longer be able to cheer, "We campus known for its "family"
Guest Columnist 
to the Registrar's Office in the Amendment Rights were being are ND!" but rather, "We are atmosphere. Both the Administration Building. In violated by the fact that " ... the discriminatory issues are separate parts of ND, none of University and the "concerned the following days, several University requires prior handled, as well as concrete which are equal." (Imagine students" of S UFR should stories appeared in The notification and must give fines and punishment for of­how that would go over at review their commitment to Observer presenting, I trust, permission for protests to take fenders." The discriminatory football games!) this type of "cultural an accurate account of the place on private, University harassment policy which vari­My final observation is that diversity." 
events on and around April property." ous University councils could SUFR does not want justice. 17, 1991. I would like to make SUFR apparently cared so have reviewed and passed is This group of "concerned stu­If the students in SUFR do not 
a few observations based upon much about securing these useless and self-defeating, but dents" wants to place what change their they must these stories and past rights that they failed to apply not because it isn't strong they see as their rights change their tactics and experience with SUFR, quoting 
promote legitimate goals from extensively from the April 18 
within the system. If the Uni­and April 19 issues of The 
versity does not change its Observer. My observations will 
commitment, it must prepare show that SUFR is a non-entity 
for a major policy revision. It and that their definition of 
must prepare to treat all "cultural diversity" is inher­
students equally under the ently separatist. 
new "culturally diversity" Beatriz Cruz made a state­
codes. The University will ment paraphrased in The Ob­
have to initiate an Office of server: "If Malloy was truly 
Majority Affairs, a Majority concerned (about SUFR' s de­
Cultural Center, and an all-ex­mands) he would push for re­
pense paid Majority

I 
search of how other universi­~o~r~p~e~r~m~ls~silo~n~o~~em~o~n~s~r~aTe~.~~~~~~L-----~~--~--~s~e~p~a~r~a~te~a~n~d~a~b~o~ve~t~e~r~e~s ~ Recruitment Weekend exactly ties have handled ... racial like the Minority Recruitment
They failed to secure permis-policy should be They want separatism, and
harassment policies." Perhaps Weekend held April 19-21.
sion even though "the sit-in rescinded because it promotes they want it now. They want it 
Father Malloy has done his The new "cultural diversity"
r had been in the planning two standards of justice for all so quickly that they won't
"research" and Beatriz Cruz is anathema at a Catholic
stages for some time," and the crime of harassment, the work within the system. They
has not. university and should not be
they had every opportunity to definition for which both the want it so quickly that they
If she had, she would have pursued. The University
go through University existing code and the new will not stand in line with seen that these "speech codes" should also honor the commit­channels (which they maintain code share. If the University every other campus organiza­are under Supreme Court re­ment which every otherthey always do). continues to promote these tion. They want it so quicklyview (University of Wisconsin), campus club and student hasAt this point, I would like to policies, we will see situations that they will subjugate theand that some have already made to Notre Dame. Ittake a look at the in which verbal rights of other students by ille­been overturned (University of cannot allow SUFR to continue"discriminatory harassment" "discriminatory harassment" gaily closing the Registrar'sMichigan). Liberals and con­
breaking the rules. It is

policy recently passed by the is punished more heavily Office.
servatives, whites and blacks simply unfair to those whoAcademic Council. Individuals under the new code than They do not want integration

(William Rasberry, Walter 
have waited in lines, filed theclaiming to speak for the col-physical harassment under the through expanded intelligence, Williams, and Joseph Perkins forms and worked within thelection of "concerned stu-existing code. but codes and "education"to name a few), even the ACLU system. SUFR does not do thisdents" known as SUFR said The "discriminatory harass-facilities to promote a single

has taken a stand against 
and therefore should face thethe policy was "unacceptable," ment policy," as well as the opinion about a social "good"

racial harassment policies. 

as appropriate consequences. 
and demanded something "central department in which we have come to know
They are simply indefensible 

"which offers a better discriminatory issues are han-"cultural diversity." 
restrictions on student's First 
Michael E. Allen is a Junior

definition of harassment, a died," promote separate and If you cut to the core, SUFR' s
Amendment Rights-rights 
economics and history major. 

central department in which unequal justice for "cultural diversity" is anything 
Dissolution of SUFR would aid the cause of diversity 
It is no secret that most From its creation SUFR has Rick Acker is not the message received by facts, the best thing SUFR can Notre Dame students do not taken actions guaranteed to In My Opinion the students and do in the cause of cultural support SUFR. The strong and irritate Notre Dame's student administration. The message diversity is disband. No one uniformly negative reactions body. The group started off on received was, in the words of can doubt that SUFR and its
"demands," but was unwilling
in The Observer and the wrong foot by choosing a one student, that SUFR is members are firmly
to meet the University's proce­
elsewhere to SUFR's sidewalk name like "Students United for "disrespectful and un­committed to promoting racial 
dural demands. Thus, SUFR
writing and sit-in tactics Respect" and an acronym like deserving of respect" (Bruce T. harmony and cultural 

should not he surprised when
shows this lack of support. 
diversity, hut the group'sLikewise, The Observer's poll continued existence will only(April 23) showed that prevent these goals from being students are three times more achieved. 
likely to oppose SUFR's methods than to support 
After SUFR disbands, many
them. SUFR's unpopularity of its ideas can he 

among students is particularly in a
reintroduced less 
surprising in )light of other 
confrontational way. For statistics found in The instance, students,
Observer's poll: 46 percent of 
particularly liberal arts 
Notre Dame students feel that students, should be introduced the University is not truly to non-Western cultures. Acommitted to cultural diversity 
required freshman historyand 53 percent of students 
seminar on a non-Western 

support at least some of indicate a group that is self­fairness fall on deaf ears. The sit-in disrupted student civilization, for instance, might SUFR's "demands." Why is righteous, arrogant, and takes Seeing that its tactics weren't registration and flagrantly vio­not he a had idea. 
SUFR so unpopular? itself very seriously. working, SUFR decided to do lated University rules, so Even if SUFR is none of these something visible that would SUFR should have expected
Moreover, what can be done to 
Likewise, creative ways of 

address legitimate cultural things, its name and acronym get attention and respect: the negative reaction it got 
dealing with racial

give the impression that it is. writing slogans on Notre
diversity concerns on campus? from both the administration 
harassment should be

Similarly, SUFR labelled its Dame's sidewalks. This, of and the student body. 
explored (though rules 

The root cause of SUFR's un­ideas as "demands." Nobody course, got attention, hut not 
punishing racist speech

popularity is a series of bad likes to have someone else respect. The reaction in the What can we do to meet probably do more harm than"demand" things from them,
public relations moves on its April Fool Observer was legitimate concerns for good). Not all of SUFR's ideas part. My first job out of college so common sense would shared by most students I cultural diversity? A good first 
should not he adopted, hut 

was Campaign Manager for a dictate using another word, encountered: SUFR was acting step would he the dissolution many of them deserve serious, Congressional campaign in a such as "position," "University like a petulant child who of SUFR. As pointed out above, open discussion free from ra­hostile and apathetic district, need," or "proposal." Instead, scribbles on the walls because SUFR is unpopular and inept cial animosity and confronta­so I know the importance of SUFR decided to use his or her parents won't give at public relations. Also, SUFR tion.
confrontational language and in. has pushed itself into the
presenting oneself to the 
SUFR has done Notre Dame apublic well. I have seen the ensure a hostile reception for limelight and christened itself service in raising the issue of damage that even one bad its ideas. SUFR then decided to stage a the champion of cultural 

cultural diversity.

public relations decision can sit-in. In the words of Prof. diversity at Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately, if this issue is tomake. SUFR further antagonized John Kennedy, who apparently Regrettably, many of SUFR's get a fair hearing, SUFR should

the University by refusing to is close to SUFR, says that the actions have served only to 
disband. 

No one should be surprised apply for official recognition group was trying to say poison the racial atmosphere at the negative effects caused before engaging in "Please make it clear that we at Notre Dame and stir up 
Rick Acker is a third year

by a string of mistakes like negotiations. SUFR wanted are (welcome). Please take us opposition to cultural 
law student and a regular

those committed by SUFR. Notre Dame to meet its seriously." Unfortunately, this diversity. In light of these 
Viewpoint columnist. 


Viewpoint
Thursday, May 2, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
SUFR is promoting cultural diversity, not separatism 
Dear Editor: 
This letter Is in response to several others in the April 23 Observer. If one part of the body suffers, then the entire body suffers. Some people hate SUFR, some sympathize with It, but disagree with its umilitant" tactics. Others wholeheartedly support both its purpose and methods. But whatever group any member of the student body encounters himself in, he must remember that as a part of the ND family, we arc a single body. 
Perhaps you are an ethnic minority who has never experienced prejudice while under the Dome, or a white majority who feels wrongly accused of ignorance concerning other cultures. You may feel that there is no need for SUFH and that it has only served to raise issue of nonexistent problems. Whether that be the case or not, it is important to note that by SUFH's very existence, some students have felt uncomfortable, unwelcome, or unaccepted at ND for whatever reason. Some have felt ignored or bypassed by the Administration and misunderstood by the student body. This frustration has surfaced in actions that certain ND students have used to pass judgement over SUFR as a militant, demanding, and unreasonable organization whose concerns are set~ 
Homemakers receive little recognition 
Dear Editor: 
Last Spring I read with inter­est the first news releases re­garding plans for the Year of Women at Notre Dame. There was from the beginning what seemed to me an obvious omis­sion of issues related to women's traditional work (i.e. the creative, exciting, joyful, yet sometimes boring and exhaust­ing and always underpaid work done primarily by women who choose to take time off from the salaried workforce to devote most of their energies to their families). 
I made a little noise about this and was assigned to one of the Year of Women subcommit­tees. My intentions in serving on this subcommittee were two­fold: first, to provide a recog­nition of homemaking and child-rearing as respectable labors, and second, to repre­sent in some small measure an often forgotten option in the public debate over child care, the out of fashion idea of one parent remaining home as pri­mary caretaker of their own children. 
Homemaking is traditional women's work which receives very little positive social recog­nition. Perhaps this is because it is viewed as housekeeping. Homemaking is not so much about dusting and vacuuming 
serving and egocentric. There we all suffer, and the suffering is no problem in disagreeing will not be relieved by with SUFR or its actions, but amputating the ailing limb. there exists a problem in SUFR is not a separatist forming an opinion without group seeking to alienate the full or adequate information minorities on this campus and then closing off your mind from the rest of the student to ever altering that opinion. body. Rather, it is a group It is easy to dismiss the seeking to alleviate and concerns SUFR has raised if eventually eliminate any & DiJoseph). Well, as Americans, to draw upon a cliche, we belong to a melting pot, and by the very fact that our ancestors came here to take pride in their differences and enjoy the freedom to cele­brate them, differences are very much relevant. I do not believe that anyone's cultural 

you consider yourself removed from them. But, because we are one body and because it is obvious that at least a few students from the thousands who live here have expressed a need for racial issues to be addressed and dealt with, we all should be open and recep­tive, ready to offer our support, advice, or even opposition to help find some real and permanent solution to this very real and pressing problem. 
Now is not a time of apathy, for we are all a part of this movement regardless of which direction we face in it. When one part of the body suffers, 
as it is about creating a loving and hospitable home. House­keeping chores should be shared to some degree by all members of the household re­gardless of gender, age, or ca­reer status. The load should shift among family members quite naturally according to the various phases of life each is experiencing. Homemaking is likewise best accomplished by everyone in the home-female and male, young and old­working together. Be assured, it does take work to create the precious commodity of a happy home. 
Parenting is, of course, a tremendously Important shared responsibility. It is a difficult job for which nothing can fully prepare either father or mother. There are probably many right ways of going about it. I would never want to criti­cize another parent's decision in this very private matter. However, I do want the public debate over child care to give greater recognition and respect to the idea of a parent remain­ing home to perform the pri­mary tasks of child-rearing. (Yes, even parents who have university training and can earn lots of money in the salaried workforce and who may even quite possibly have an opportunity of making a 
feelings of isolation already felt by some minorities through increased presence on faculty and staff and increased education for all in diverse cultures. This ultimately would benefit the whole by helping to make ND the ideal atmosphere for intellectual, spiritual, and moral growth not solely for 99 percent of its family, but 100 percent. So many of the arguments against SUFH stem from the idealistic view that u As Amer­icans race distinctions should be irrelevant" (Beaven) or that we "want a Notre Dame ...where race and national origin mean nothing." (O'Brien 
greater contribution to society in their work than that of fine children.) 
I have friends both male and 
a break from such diverse full-time careers as science, educa­tion, and the law to spend at least the first few formative years of their children's lives as full-time parents. We feel that it is extremely important and honestly a great deal of fun to be with our little ones. 
As undergraduates, these is­sues very likely seem to belong to some other world, but time moves quickly after graduation, and five or ten short years from now most of you will probably be struggling with decisions of how to best organize your family life. Please know that it really is okay to take the road less travelled by. Sure, you will probably drive a rusty ten year old Toyota wagon down that road, and you'll sometimes be discounted by those you meet as uninteresting and under­accomplished, but you'll be at the wheel, directly helping to form lots of happy childhood memories and learning a lot from your children in the process. 
Marty Mosby Kenahan 
Class of 1981 
April 29,1991 

' f 
heritage means nothing or that by appreciating both mine and that of others, I am neglecting to view ourselves as persons. 
Furthermore, if minorities and the media had never made an issue of prejudice, discrimination, and racism, we would still find ourselves in the days of segregation or 
even slavery. Silence per­petuates injustice. u A closed mouth gathers no feet." 
As for SUFR's efforts to "polarize" the campus, that polarization (surprise!) already exists. Take a trip to the dining hall or LaFortune during any meal time and open your eyes. This is no fault of any particular group, but it does show that something needs to be done. Perhaps ill will between the races did not exist here before (incidentally, I don't think it exists now), but there is something going awry that must be acknowledged. 
In addition, I agree that uFew things are more frustrating or indeed frightening, than a group of people who are absolutely cer­tain that they are right, you are wrong, and the rest of society must conform to their viewpoint," (Lotz). It is exactly this mounting frustration that has brought the rest of society together to form a group called SUFR on the Notre Dame campus. 
By heightening cultural diversity at Notre Dame, the content of an Individual's character is also heightened and made more whole, just as heightening sexual, 
ideological, and religious di­versity does the same. No singular category of growth predominates, and SUFR has never claimed their concerns to do so. However, SUFR will continue to stress these concerns as long as they go unanswered and until a solution is realized. 
Andrea Gutierrez Lyons Hall 

clarify his position 

Dear Editor: 
Law School professor Douglas Kmiec's letter (the Observer, April 22) calls attention to his inability to bring an issue dear to his heart to the floor of the Faculty Senate. A Presidential Fellow in the Reagan White House and an attorney in the Meese Justice Department, Kmiec needs no political advice. Nevertheless, it's possible he could widen his constituency by clarifying the roots and the im­plications of his position. 
Kmiec recommends an ND subsidy for one paycheck fac­ulty and staff families if one parent stays home to care for young children. Does he also support decent day care for two paycheck faculty/staff families? 
Parental leave policy for one or both parents? Are his recom­mendations purely for local consumption or could he be counted on to support subsidies for in-home or third party day care and parental leave at the level of local, state, or federal legislation? What assistance does he recommend or support, by ND or any level of govern­ment, for one parent families? 
The price of leadership is credibility, and the price of credibility is a cogent and com­prehensive position. What's professor Kmiec's? 
Edward Manier Department of Philosophy April 23, 1991 


Accent 
Page 12 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
"The Notre Dame family." 

Throughout their years at Notre Dame, and even after graduation, students hear this phrase. The University espouses the idea that everyone here is part of a larger family and many students agree. 
For Michael Vore and Michael W. Miller, however, it is different. For them, the "Notre Dame Family" is a distant dream. They are, at best, stepchildren in this larger family. This can be attributed.to one fact: 
Both Miller and Vore are gay. 
Miller and Vore, along with a lesbian student, are co-chairs of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC), an unrecognized campus organization with a "mission of support, education and fellowship," Miller says. 
As co-chairs of the group, Miller and Vore often find themselves at odds with members of the Administration and with members of the community in general. 
The atmosphere at Notre Dame is different from the outside world, says Vore. Unlike other places in society that have grown to accept homosex­uality, Notre Dame still has an aura of hostile feelings and denial, he says. 
"I've lived in the real world-I've lived in other cities, and when you come back here, you get a sense that the air is different here. I can't be comfortable if I'm dating somebody. I can't be too loud or too affectionate or too public with my feelings for them because you get the sense that that's something that's not going to work here," explains the 26-year-old Vore. 
Members of the Administration will readily admit that those of a homosex­ual orientation are not sinners-here or anywhere else. 
"The Church says that anyone of that orientation is not to be condemned at all," says Father Peter Rocca, assistant vice president for Student Services. However, the University is wary of recognizing the group for fear that it would imply ap­proval of a homosexual lifestyle, among other reasons, he says. 
Thus, the group's existence becomes an issue of formal recognition by the University, something the University says it just can't bestow upon the group. 
To obtain formal recognition, a club must present a constitution, a financial report summarizing each year's activities and a yearly report of the club's activities, according to duLac, Notre Dame's student handbook. 
"There is nothing in our charter that says anything about homosexual acts or says anything to challenge church doctrine," Miller says, citing the group's mission of "support, education and fellowship." 
"They [the Administration] have never asked nor have seen any of our documents-our charter, our statement of mission or our constitution, all of which are in line with Church doctrine," Miller says. 
While recognition appears to be a key sticking point, no one sees the group applying for recognition any time soon. 
"Recognition is not important to us as an organization right now. We couldn't care less. We can do what we need to do without it," Vore says. 
"If we were to go through the recognition process, we could meet the criteria that exists in duLac, but we're not going to do it because we've gotten indications from the University that they're not going to recognize us anyway," adds Vore. 
"In terms of whether they should be recognized as a group, the University has taken a position, for a whole host of reasons, that recognition would not be in keeping with the mission of the University," Rocca says. 


For homosexuals at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, a more receptive atmosphere is a distant dream 

Because of the group's unrecognized status, ads that GLND/SMC placed in The Observer over the past year have led to direct conflict with ad­ministrators. 
In these ads, the group used their name and a logo that included a representation of the "Golden Dome." In addition, the ads also announced the dates and times of the group's gen­eral meetings. 
Because of these ads GLND/SMC has "run into the difficulties of giving the impression of being recognized," Rocca says. 
This implied recognition led the administration to crack down on the use of the words "Notre Dame" and the symbol of the "Golden Dome" in the ads. 
According to duLac, use of licensed trademarks such as "Golden Dome," "Notre Dame," and "Fightin' Irish" must have the approval of the Administration. 
In order to enforce this rule, Rocca and Sister Jean Lenz, assistant vice president for Student Affairs met with then editor-in-chief of The Observer Alison Cocks and told her the ads could not continue to run using the trademarks, Cocks says. 
"The thing that makes me mad is that the University came to us to police the group. Never did they sit down with Mike and Mike [Vore and Miller] and discuss it. They came to me in­stead," Cocks says. 
Rocca and Lenz told Cocks that the ads could no longer use the Notre Dame name or the representation of the Golden Dome, nor could they advertise regular general meetings. 
Rocca denies Cocks' claims that the Administration never contacted members of the group. 
"That is absolutely not correct," he says. "We met with them at the beginning of the year to discuss advertising and other issues." 
But Miller and Vore claim that the first time they heard there were problems with the ads was in talking with Cocks. 
Citing letters he says Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs, sent to members of the group, Rocca counters that the University did address the issue of advertising. 
"Efforts were made by the University to discuss the issue before we met with [Cocks]," he says. 
"They [the ads] give the impression that they have 'regular, general 
Thursday, May 2, 1991 
meetings' and if I were an outside person reading that paper...! would think that this is a recognized group that meets regularly on campus and hence is recognized," Rocca says. 
The University's attitude toward the group troubled Cocks, she says. 
"Throughout the meeting, they really did not treat them [GLND/SMC] like people," she says. "I never once got the sense that we were talking about real people." 
Another group that ran into trouble over official recognition is Students United for Respect (SUFR), a campus group that has caused a great deal of controversy in its struggle for ethnic concerns. 
Several weeks ago, before SUFR agreed to seek recognition from the University, Rocca said recognizing SUFR and recognizing GLND/SMC were two different issues. 
"SUFR could easily be an approved university organization," he said. "That is not the case with Gays and Lesbians ... Because what we're talking about here has to do with Catholic moral teaching and the mission of the University. None of that is involved with SUFR," he added. 
"It says something implicit, no matter how much you want to deny it, if you were to say that a Catholic university recognizes a gay/lesbian group. I think that the average person on the street would infer from that that 'it must be okay to be gay or lesbian and to act out that lifestyle,'" Rocca says. 
"That would certainly be in­compatible with the mission of the University," he adds. 

The Administration's differing attitudes toward SUFR and GLND/SMC are indicative of the attitudes of society in general, Miller says. 
"It's okay for people to support SUFR because they're fighting racism and that's a very chic thing to do. Fighting against homophobia isn't," he says. 
To Vore, the University's position is indicative of its attitude toward sex in general. 
"Everybody recognizes and understands that racism is wrong, most people don't make that equation with sexuality, especially at a place like this where sexuality is such a closed subject in general," says Vore. 
"Whether its gay or non-gay, people just don't talk about sexuality here," he adds. 
"Students at Notre Dame are having sex. This is the time to be talking about it. This is the place. The University is terrified of sex. It's an institutional thing and a Catholic thing," Vore says. 
"That inherent fear of sex is even amplified in the case of homosexuals," Miller adds. "There is such a misunderstanding of homosexuality on the administrative level." 
This attitude is characteristic of a campus-wide sentiment, Vore says. 
"Part of it is homophobia in general. They're afraid to deal with gay questions," he says. "They don't challenge other groups on their name or on their logo because other groups aren't the gay group." 
The University's refusal to recognize GLND/SMC just amplifies the homophobia that exists on campus, Vore and Miller say. 
"The worst thing about homophobia is that it tries to force gays into only living gay through the stereotypes-through going to bars, through only having sex in bathrooms or in small, dark places where it can't be anything but dirty and horrible," says Vore. 
"None of that has to apply. I want to live my life as I would if I weren't gay. I want to live my life in the daylight, I want to talk about it in the daylight," he says. 
But for Vore, Miller and the rest of the homosexuals on campus, that daylight and the acceptance that comes along with it appear to be a long way off. 


The Observer!" Kevin Weise Jean Connolly is one of 20 students who volunteer their time at Legal Services of Northern Indiana, Inc. 
D'Souza, author of 'Illiberal Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus,' presents issues of mu~icu~uralism and affirmative action. 
Accent
Thursday, May 2, 1991 

Pro Bono 
Students provide free legal services for area residents 
By JENNIFER GUERIN of two in northern Indiana. Accent Writer Together, it and the Lafayette office service over 15,000 
For the past 10 years, Notre clients In 24 counties of north­Dame and Saint Mary's students em Indiana. have been an integral part of Only with the help of eager 
one of the most admirable and volunteers from all walks of life, 
needed services in the South including students from the 
Bend area. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
While others return from campuses, are they able to class and go to work at campus continue providing high-caliber jobs or other places, 20 Notre service. 
Dame and Saint Mary's students Legal Services focuses on civil 
travel to 105 East Jefferson law, covering such areas as 
Street in downtown South Bend consumer law, public benefits, 
to volunteer their time by guardianship and divorce. 
helping the economically Notre Dame and Saint Mary'sdisadvantaged population of the volunteers serve their first community. semester as intake workers for Legal Services of Northern all of these areas. 
cause of the emotional casesIndiana, Inc. is a private, non­As intake workers, they 
that student volunteers are
profit organization funded by interview prospective clients sometimes shocked by.
grants, organizations such as (gathering information about She cites that particularthe United Way, and the federal 
income and resources to emotional experience, however,
government. determine the client's income as one of the most notable The program first began in eligibility). and put their rewards of her internship. "It's South Bend in 1953 when a research into brief legal form really an eye-opening position," 
small number of lawyers 

for one of the nine staff said Platz, "these people would
banded together to provide 

attorneys to review. not get help otherwise." 
representation for low-income Students considering law as a 
In the second semester of
individuals who could not career are encouraged to 
their work at Legal Services,otherwise afford access to legal volunteer their time-on their 
some students move on to be­aid. own or through one of many come attorney's assistants,
Although at its inception it internship programs-in order plunging with more depth into was funded solely by private to develop crucial interview the world of civil law. As assis­

donations, the program skills, establish a rapport with tants, they do research, prepare expanded its services through the public, and learn more 
pleadings and depositions,
the '60s and '70s as it began to about law and various social interview witnesses and oftenreceive aid from the United Way services. go into the courtroom with
and various government 

With the help of Legal Legal Services lawyers. programs. Services, undergraduate and This year, 20 Notre Dame
In the early 1980s, drastic graduate students build re­
and Saint Mary's students workfunding cutbacks forced Legal sumes and relationships for 
at Legal Services trough
Services to reevaluate its situ­professional references. internships or on a strictly vol­

ation and determine if it could Despite extensive training•. unteer basis. survive. After carefully assess­workers like Ruth Platz admit Deborah Cataldo, Volunteering the continuing need for that there are difficulties Coordinator of the program,
services, Legal Services decided dealing with a group in the 
says, "This year's students have to begin running its program on community with whom the stu­been excellent...They are pro­a volunteer basis, with only a dent may be unfamiliar. fessional, they are caring, theyfew staffed administrators and 
Platz, a senior from Notre are really looking out for thelawyers. Dame, calls her position at best interests of the clients.
The South Bend office is one Legal Services a "trying job" be-They give more than one 
D'Souza plays renegade role 
By JOHN O'BRIEN pushing an agenda of months and in that time, the Accent Editor "multiculturalism" are actually politically correct debate has creating "balkanized, race-con­opened up. 
Even though Dinesh D'Souza's scious enclaves without a "Activists are on the defense, Tuesday lecture brought divided shared commitment to liberal but administrations have been response from those attending, education." silent," he says. his reception was warmer than He attacks universities like Administrations have been si­some he has received. Stanford for dropping Western lent in the face of multicultural 
"Once or twice I've been Civilization course require­activism because by speaking heckled, but it's usually from ments and adding re,Siuired out against the issues they will faculty members," jokes the 30-courses in non-European cul­be brandished racists. In turn, year-old author of "Illiberal tures. This, D'Souza writes, is activists are given free reign, he Education: The Politics of Race an example of choosing re­says. The administrations need and Sex on Campus." quired texts not on their merits to speak out, he says. 
"Someone would yell, 'You're but on the cultural group the "I'm thinking of writing an an idiot,' and I'll look up and author represents. article entitled 'Who are the see some 45-year-old walking "Illiberal Education" also politically correct?' and naming out," he says. tackles the issue of affirmative names so these people can be 
D'Souza, on campus to deliver action, stating that universities held accountable," he says. a lecture entitled "The Politics are accepting minority students D'Souza's roots on the con­
page 13 


hundred percent." 
Kathleen Neville from Saint Mary's and Brian Cody from Notre Dame both believe that the biggest reward in working for Legal Services is the feeling of helping other people who truly appreciate the services they might not otherwise afford. 
"I feel that I'm helping myself," says Cody, a senior government major, "but the best part is volunteering with people who really need the service." 
Neville is a communications major with an interest in law and law school in the future. She admits that working with Legal Services has changed the possible focus of her future plans from entertainment law to social law, because "there just aren't enough people involved in these services." 
Both Neville and Ruth Platz asserted that they have grown increasingly sensitive to the in­credible need for social pro­grams like Legal Services among people in low-income communities. 
Platz's future plans have always Included law, but like 
... 
Neville's, they were directed by Legal Services towards a specific income level and type of people. 
Students serving at the South Bend office this year include: Carolyn Broering, Grace Chen, Brian Cody, Michael Colbach, Jean Connolly and Giovanni DiCenso, Glenn Gibbons, Colleen Graham, John Hearns, Janet Herold, Kathleen Neville, Anthony Paganelli, Ruth Platz and Anne Marie Piscione. 
Also volunteering are Richard Richards, Hussell Singer, David Steigerwald, Peter Tarsney, Dan Witous, and Lawrence Zeiser, Jr. 
"If you're interested in law, this is a great place to come and see how it really works," says Neville. 
Interested students should contact Brian Byers at Notre Dame or Peggy Byers at Saint Mary's College for information about internships. For a volun­teer position for the summer or next fall, contact Deborah Cataldo at soon as possible at the South Bend office, 284­8121. 
of Haec and Sex on Campus," is no stranger to controversy. 
Since the release of his book early this month, D'Souza has attracted praise from promi­nent national figures, such as William Bennett and author Tom Wolfe, but also has at­tracted his share of critics. 
Jay Parlnl, a professor of English at Middlebury College, calls "Illiberal Education," "utterly crazy and entirely derivative" and a "simple recitation of neoconservative grievances," according to the Chronicle of Higher Education. 
In the book, D'Souza writes that college activists who are based on the fact they are mi­nority students-and not based on merit. 

The issues of multiculturalism and affirmative action are rooted in the idea of "political correctness," or the idea that there is a set way of looking at race, sex and cultures. The de­bate over political correctness has been a hot topic across col­lege and university campuses in recent months. 
Following a Newsweek cover story on the issue, newspapers and magazines have given the debate extensive coverage. 
D'Souza has been speaking on college campuses for three servative side of issues stretch back to his adolescence. A na­tive of Bombay, India, D'Souza emigrated to America in 1978 for his senior year of high school. 
He attended Dartmouth University, graduating in 1983. While there, he was one of a group of students who broke from the campus newspaper to found the Dartmouth Review, a conservative weekly that gained national attention for the ag­gressive actions of its staff members. 
According to ·the Chronicle of Higher Education these actions included sponsoring a free champagne and lobster meal to coincide with a campus fast against hunger. As a senior, D'Souza served as editor of the Review. 
In 1987 he joined the Reagan Administration as a policy ana­lyst, serving as an advisor on domestic policy issues. During the 1988 presidential election, he advised the Bush-Quayle campaign on attracting Catholic voters. 
D'Souza now edits the journal Crisis, which he calls, "an orthodox, lively, Catholic" pub­lication whose mission is "inspiring dialogue." 
Coincidentally, Crisis was founded at Notre Dame by Ralph Mcinerny, professor of philosophy and director of the University's Jacques Marltain Center. D'Souza, however, has never met Mcinerny. 
After he's finished with his promotional and lecture tour, D'Souza plans to write a book about America as a multi-racial society. 
"I hope to take the issues I've discussed ofT the campuses and into the society in general," he says. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 
~ Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classWieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2cents per charact... P'"' day, Including all spaces. 
1-
FULL TIME POSITION Room Available in a save & historic A 1976 Bitchin' Camaro For Sale: The Pittsburgh Club will be IMMEDIATE PLACEMENT area. Full house priv. Washer & Runs well, 96,000 miles 1 way plane tix. sponsoring a luggage truck Local sports computing company, Dryer included. 1 mi. from N.D. $950 or best offer from SB to HOUSTON back to Pitt. The truck will which currently provides computer $220/mnth. Phone 287-7928 contact Jay at x3450 leaves May 1Oth load Friday, May 10. The TYPING AVAILABLE support to $80. or best offer pickup times will be: 287-4082 half the N.F.L. clubs, intends Sub-leasing apartment at Castle Drum kit for sale Theresa x4248 11-12:30 at the Bookstore 
to expand its programming! Point this summer. MIRAGE PERCUSSION 1-2:30 on Stepan Courts. Resumes....Professional quality support-group IMMEDIATELY. If interested, please call2712. Ask like new $500 or best offer Prices are the same as last 272-5667. (Tom Williams) for KARL! I Mark 288-3048 Personal year and the truck will 
Looking for applicants with a unload Sunday in Pitt. limes $$$for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg. strong interest in sports as Quaint furnished apts. MAUVE CHAIR! ONE YEAR OLD will be available at loading. hours 10-5:30 everyday well as a familiarity with VAX/VMS, near N.D. for summer-1 bedrm $260; IN GOOD CONDITION. BEST I got it. Any questions, call Chris at Pandora's Books 233-2342 MSDOS, and/or summer & fall-effeciency $225; fall-OFFER I ALSO HAVE MATCHING Come. And be my baby. 234-8817. corner of ND Ave. & Howard Macintosh operationg environ­2 bedrm $360; deposit, references CARPET! CALL 3745 
ments, and FORTRAN and/or C 1-800-582-9320 Tired of paying high taxi fares? Anyone interested in SINGING BUDWEISER, COORS, PABST programming Languages. BIKE FOR SALE!! 10 Speed Don't want to wait an hour for a taxi a variety of music, from SHOULD THIS BE CENSORED? FREEDOM! 27" -not beautiful but everything to arrive? classic rock to progressive, 
Send Resume To: Rent the best furnished houses, works. Asking $45 I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and with established campus band STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF Personnel Director prime locations, sec. systems, sand call Karen 271-1893 can give rides to the TIME? P.O. Box 4278 V-ball, wash/dry. Call Greg 233-airport/train/bus station the weekend call Eric x33t8 or 
LASER QUALITY TERM South Bend, IN 46634 9947. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. after finals for just $5. Bill x4586 PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK Buying a car? Good rates. Call me Call Rene at 277-9468 to reserve a TURNAROUND. Sitter/ Family Companion Sublet apt. for summer; 1 for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. spot. --LOST-­
needed for the summer. Granger bedroom; 800+ sq. ft.; washer Office near campus. HELP! I lost my wallet MAILBOXES area, three young & dryer in apt.; pool; tennis SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $315 at the Commons on Friday 277-6245. children, live-in or out, courts; storage. CHEAP­89 GEO Spectrum each way on discounted scheduled Night. It's a tan color and has a lot 
call 277-8380 for more must rent. Call 277-2597 Great Gas Mileage-airlines to Europe from Chicago. of important stuff in there! If found, THE PITTSBURGH CLUB WILL information. 45/city 50/highway Call (800) 325-2026. please call Maria at 284-5073 and BE SPONSORING A LUGGAGE TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE Still has factory warranty no questions will be asked. TRUCK BACK TO PITT. The Need Roomate For Summer Lease excellent buy, call Pat truck will load on Friday, Summer; Year Call Jeff at 1615 or 1612 288-5678 Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We FRESHMEN I May 10. Pickups will be $200.00Mo. love you. 11 -12:30 at the Bookstore Call Lena AVAIL. GRAD. WEEKEND FOR SALE 1992 1 -2:30 on Stepan Courts #3517 Bed 'N Breakfast room. Mins. from recliner, desk U.P.S. Sophomore The truck will empty Sunday campus. call 289-3349 SERVICE DAILY Literary in Pitt. Distribution times WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2) Call277-7696 after 3. M-F 12-5/ Sat. 11-2 Festival will be given out at loading. people to occupy a Turtle Creek Couch and love seat for sale-real The prices will be the same Apt. for summer. More affordable cheap. Ouija Board, CO's, fridges Finals wk.: 9-5:30 M-F Want to be part of it? as last year. than a townhouse. Call Jim or John MOVE IN MAY 20 and MUCH MUCH MORE for Sat.11-2 Meeting 6:00 tonight, Lewis Any questions, call Chris at 234-X1177. Turtle Creek Townhouse sale-real, real cheap. Call Jeff the parlor, or call Betsy X3140 8817 for summer sublet. pennis or lim the stud at 283-1873. THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
Call 283-1636 We're being put in jail for touching LaiFortune Lower Level ATIENTION ATIENTION ND/Smc NJ Students: -CINCINNATJ-...{;INCINNATI-little boys, so everything must go. 239-6714 NVA AEROBICS PARTICIPANTS! Club will run luggage truck home. IF YOU'RE GOING ANYWHERE ATIENTION Loading at Stepan: NEAR CINCINNATI THIS WEEK­SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE If you received a survey, 5-9 6:00-8:00 END, AND CAN TAKE A PASSEN­2 bdr. aprt. Ten minutes to EXCELLENT LOFT FOR SALE PLEASE fill it out and return it 5-10 12:30-2:30 GER, PLEASE CALL KRISTEN@ campus, close to downtown. -includes bookshelves FOR SALE: ASAPII!!! ?'s call Matt x1 m 283-2927 ASAP $350 monthly rent includes Avoid paying high rentals. Buy my THANK YOU! 
water & elec. Deposit required. X3506 210 Morrissey 3 year old, dorm size FRIDGE for
...................
Looking for a good use for that Call 234-0119 after 6pm. only $50 and own it for next year. MAUVE CHAIR I ONE YEAR OLD couch or other furniture in your $350.00/DAY PROCESSING Call Scott at X1650. AND IN GOOD CONDITION.ALSO room after moving on? Forsake the PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE • MUST SELL LOFT HAVE MATCHING CARPET.WILL profit and donate it to the Center for YOU. NO EXPERIENCE SUMMER RENTAL Furnished, 2 greatcond. SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE TAKE BEST OFFER! CALL 3745 the Homeless. Contact Greg NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242 bedrm, CHEAPIII Call Pete @1201 elec. outlet & phone jack on NOW!!I Mitchem at 282-8700 to arrange EXTENSION P-238214 or Tom @ 1403. headboard! Name your price pick-up. 284-4395 Amy B & L, Moe and Mer-GOOD LUCK PW WEASELSIII!I! 
ATIENTION SENIORS Turtle Creek Twnhse. 1miss you guys a lot, dirt cheap Jun -Aug MUST SELL LOFT and hope you're having fun. All Weasel fans are invited to watch Lost and Found I'll buy your extra graduation call Dan 283-1248 great cond. Good luck on all your exams! the PW chicks beat BP in the soccer 
announcements elec. outlet +phone See you soonI FINALS..... Lost at Commons: Denim jacket Furnished Summer Apt jack on headboard I -Your pal in Ireland. with car keys and driver's liscences If you have a few to spare, 2 Bed. Call273-1747 Name your price Thursday, 4:30pm -Stepan of Usa Parker and Laura Parks in call Matt X1650 284-4395 pocket. If found, please call 2806. STUDIO APARTMENTS MOVING OFF CAMPUS? (look for the three sharp-dressed 
1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS NEED A BED? blonde coaches...) 
LOST: Royal blue BACK PACK For Rent $250.285 Tickets DOUBLE BED FOR SALE-VERY containing library books and a pair CALL 2888595 COMFORTABLE-LESS THAN A GO PURPLE WEASELS!! I of purple glasses (I think) GRAD. WEEKEND NEED 2 GRAD TIX CALL BILL YEAR OLD. CALL ANNE AT GO PURPLE WEASELS!!! 
Please call Alison at 2806. HELP! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY SUMMER HOUSING 3546 LAFAYETIE SQUARE 288-0597 GO PURPLE WEASELS!!! Finals are coming. Thanx 219-291-7153. -3 br home 
-$153/moJperson+util. Help! Grandparents need two FRITZ KLEIN LOST 4/29: 3.5" floppy disk An attractive studio in lovely old -turn washer-dryer 2 grad. tix. Call Jon xt847 and formatted for Mac's. Very mansion near N.D. $300 now microwave ADOPTION-HAPPILY MARRIED BRIAN PACKARD important. Bill Campbell renting for summer &fall 91 call -5 min. from campus & stores $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PROFESSIONAL COUPLE WISH 
written on front. Call 2879624 -safe neighborhood I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS II! TO ADOPT A BABY TO LOVE. WE Thursday, 4:30 -you guys are going Bill at x1584. HELP ME Grandparents are coming from ARE SENSITIVE TO BIRTH down.... See you then. 
MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our 282-2377 (Rich) California-please help mel! PARENT'S CONCERNS ABOUT LOST: A BLACK REALISTIC N.D. alumnae family for the most KRISTIN x273-9469 ADOPTION AND OPEN OPTIONS. "A-squared", P.W. WALKMAN IN THE HUDDLE ON attractive, well-maintained ''CASTLE PT THIS SUMMER!II" CALL COLLECT 616-247-6936. TUES. 4-30 AT 12:00. IF FOUND apartments on Chicago's North Need 1 person to share "'HELP ME OUTII "' Sweetie-You're wonderfui-Woopsl CALL 283-3819. side I Hardwd floors, great closet WONDERFUL 3 bed w/loft Apt I Need A Ticket For Graduation. It's IIIII JUNIORS, JUNIORSIIIII "Does that bother you?" REWARD!! space, lndry facils., conveniently ONLY $180 mo. Call ASAPI A Matter of Life and Death.... Just kidding... 
located to public transp and 273-9224 Willing To Pay Big, Big Bucks! SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND Not even-Yah right. Help me please!!! shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. Please Call Me If You Have An DISK TO CAREER AND An-y-way, I lost my keys somewhere on We'd love to help you out! 3 to 4 bedroom furnished home for Extra! PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR Love on Ya. campus last weekend. They are on rent. walking distance to campus. EMILY 284-5073 RESUME BOOKS NOW. Seriously! a blue ND key ring and have two FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, $550.00 a month. 9 to 12 month DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 YOU'RE THE BEST keys on it. One says room 328. AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, lease available. 234-7650 If found, please call Kelley x4854. UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. IIIII JUNIORS, JUNIORS!!I! I Sunday, May 5 Thank you. CAMPUS. 272-0615. Summer Sublet Need graduation tickets. Am su~er. STANFORD FLAPJACK-OFF 
1 BDRM APT. FURN. Have cash. Please call Rick at SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND J.T. vs Jason Found: One pair of prescription 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. for 91-92 Yr. Historical Building X1121. DISK TO CAREER AND North Dining Hall glasses in a Ray-Ban sunglasses Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. Close to NO. Safe. PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR Middle-left upper balcony 
case. Were found on path around $250 mo. Need 2 GRADUATION TICKETS RESUME BOOKS NOW! THE TITLE IS ON THE LINE IIIII! St. Joe's Lake in front of the House with indiv. Rooms avail. Call 288-1467 Tracey or Joe for grandmothers' 1st/only DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 seminary. Kathryn x2734 91-92 Yr. Shared Living areas. trips to NO. $$!1 Call Tom To whomever returned by keys: Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. Summer Sublet 3698 or 3697/recorder. Thank you, thank you, thank you !Ill 
1 BDRM. APT. FURN. SHANNON KAY: I really appreciate you taking the LOST: GLASSES -dark blue MUST SELL LOFT. Great condition, Historical Building Desperately need 2 graduation tix. I miss you lots and I love you very time to put my keys in the mail. You frames in a mint green case electrical outlet and phone jack on Close to N.D. Safe. for grandparents, or I will be left out much. Good luck on your tests. Dad saved my life. 
CALL x1813 headboard!! Name your price, 284-$250 mo. of the will. Help mel! Jon @ 289­4395. Call 288-1467 Tracey or Joe 1015 FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY LOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT ••••••••••••············Need 2 
CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 239-Summer Sublet, 1 BDRM. APT. Desperately need graduation graduation tickets. 5812 TERRI WELTY. FURN> For Sale tickets--Julie X2950 Call Brian at 288-0597. SENIORS: STOP AT CAREER AND Historical building close to ND and PLACEMENT TO CHECK OUR 
FOUND: safe. $250/mo. Call288-1467 ND PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO I NEED ONLY ONE TICKET FOR HOUSING/ROOMMATE A BLUE BACKPACK AT THE Tracey or Joe YOUR STUDENT'S HOUSING GRADUATION • PLEASE HELP " BOSTON CLUB TRUCK" "INFORMATION EXCHANGE" LAFAYETIE BLOCK PARTY CALL COSTS-HOUSE W/2 APTS. CALL BETHE 288-0597 
288 0597 TO CLAIM CONDO for summer rental. Close GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO WILL BE LOADING ON 000 The Copy Shop 000 
to NO. 2 bd, furnished. Rent ND. LET'S EXPLORE 1-way train tckt. S.Bend­THURSDAY, MAY 9 FROM LaiFortune Student Center LOST: A walkman with clock, flexible!! Call 272-5708. POSSIBILITIES. 289-8720 (8-3PM) Aibany, NY &pts. btwn. May 10 12:30 TO 3:00 BEHIND THE OPEN ALL SUMMER!!!!!!! alarm, radio station presets, Cheap! Nat. 287-5003. BOOKSTORE and King Crimson cassette. C"lll LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 4/5 FOR SALE: LIMPY & HARVEY'S QUOTE Mike S. x3309. BDRMS. $700.282-1014. EVERYTHING MUST GO 1-way ticket to ANCHORAGE via AnTostal '91 BOARD: "Even ugly girls look 
1 Sofa DENVER via SEATILE, depart hallway decent from 200 yards 3 Bedroom House 1 Window Seat (FI &Gr) 5/11, 4pm, female only. $150. Call .......would like to congratulate away in a dense fog at 3:13AM after Close To Campus 2 Carpets (12x10, 12x13) Karin 233-8803 late evenings & Brendan Quinn eleven beers." 
Wanted $555 Mo. + Dep. 1 6 foot ladder early mornings. and his Road Rallyin' Vermon on 
232-3616 1 small Refrigerator their Road Rally Victory on SHIP GREYHOUND, PREPAID OR Moving to Chicago? Female NO Psychadelic Psaturday II COLLECT. BOXES PLUS grad needs roommate to share 2 House for Rent Call X1583 "ONE-WAY TICKET'" LOCATIONS ON CAMPUS. bedroom apartment. Must be a non­$170/Mon IIIII! BACK TO SCHOOL IIIII! You can come to the SUB 287-6041 smoker. If interested, please call Call287-2159 Paul For Sale: 82 VW Rabbit Newark to S.Bend, Aug. 26 office and pick up you check for $25 Ann at (312) 935-1958. Great condition, 100k miles arrives at NOON. $115 later in the week!! Helen, Diggy, Rene, Amy, Erin 
2 BDRM. TOWNHOUSE, TURTLE was$950-now negotiable Call Monica 4988 Too Bad, Amy. READ ON GIRLS! KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS CREEK, AVAILABLE FOR Must sell Jeff @ 1786 Love, Rack Y. B. NEEDED $35.00 & up per hour. Tax SUMMER SUBLET JUNE 1. CALL I will do anything for some NEED NEED NEED NEED NEED Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For ERICA 283-4768 OR MONIQUE Datsun 21 o, 1979 80K mls. $350 or GRADUATION TIX. I need 2 graduation tickets. Please info. Call615-779-5505 Ext. K-541. 283-4717. BIO call Liz 271-1893 Call x1443 -leave message help. Call Brian at 288-9147. 
see CLASS/ page 15 
page 15
Thursday, May 2, 1991 

Sir Squyres-AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91 To St. Anthony BUY MY LOFT-CHEAPIII 
Juniors! Juniors! 

We deeply regret the grave Thanks for hearing my prayers and includes bookshelves 
Class-

injustice we committed AnTostal'91 getting my lost keys back to me. must sell x3506 Submit copy of resume and 

continued from page 14 
LEFTY I will miss you dearly. You make me swell with passion. I'll feel limp without you. Take care of Righty. I'll hang loose till June. MR. WILLIE 
BAR'BAR"BAR'BAR'BAR" 
Bar for sale great condition lilt call ?.88-0597 BAR'BAR'BAR'BAR'BAR' 
MOVING TO THE TWIN CITIES? I need a roommate for the summer. Call Kim X2597 
Irish Music and Dancing with Seamaisln at Club 23. Thursday May 9th Tuesday evening. Your wish is our command. Your humble servants for life, Jane & Kathryn 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
I'll buy your extra graduation announcements 
If you have a few to spare, call Matt X1650 
Scruff Monster, 

Best of luck on finals & the CPA. I'm rooting for you I Thanks fDf all the memories­we have a future more to share! !love you! 
Piano Woman 

Phillies, Cubs win; Mets lose 
PIIILADELPHIA (AP) Tommy Greene, an emergency starter when Jose DeJesus showed up with a sore back, pitched six shutout innings and drove In a run as the Phiadelphla Phillies beat the San Francisco Giants 4-1 Wednesday night for their fifth straight victory. 
Greene (1-0) gave up two hits, struck out five and walked two as the Phillies won five In a row for the first time since Aug. 19­22, 1987. It was the first start of the season for Greene who had pitched 20 2-3 Innings in relief. 
Joe Boever took over for Greene In the seventh Inning after the Phlllies pinch hit for the right-hander. The Giants scored a run In the eighth off Boever on Will Clark's RBI sin­gle and Hoger McDowell got the last three outs for his first save. 
Braves 5, Cardinals 4 
ST. LOUIS-David Justice 
broke 1Oth-inning tie with a 
run-scoring groundout as 
Atlanta beat St. Louis to end a 
three-game losing streak. 
Mike Perez (0-2) walked Otis Nixon with one out in the 10th inning and Jeff Treadway's sin­gle sent Perez to third. Scott Terry relieved with a 2-0 count on Ron Gant and completed the walk. Second baseman Geronimo Pena then made a diving stop on Justice's grounder, but his only play was at frrst base. 

Kent Mercker (1-1), the third Atlanta pitcher, gained the vic­tory by allowing one hit in the final 1 2-3 innings. 
Cubs 11, Astros 8 

CHICAGO-Hector Villanueva hit two home runs and Andre Dawson added a a three-run homer, powering Chicago past Houston. 
Dawson and Villanueva hit consecutive homers in a five­run first inning for the Cubs, who won their seventh straight home game. Villanueva home­red again in the third after Dawson doubled off loser Jim Deshaies (0-3). 
The homers gave Villanueva 
five straight hits, including a 
homer, double and single in his 
last three at-bats Tuesday 
night. He grounded out in the 
Educational Media Needs ••• 
STUDENT EMPLOYEES! 
Do you have experience videotaping events from high school days? 
Do you program your parents' VCR? 
Would you like to work with the most exciting media equipment on campus? 
Please see CARYLL VICSII< at the CCE BuildingRoom 9, or call 239,6423 for details! 

Just when you thought it was ATTENTION BANDS: HEY SMC over ..... THE DREAM LIVES ON II Tired of paying those monthly PA Wondering about the rental fees? Want to save some T THE FIRE WORK SHOW money? u THE FIRE WORK SHOW PA FOR SALEIIII N THE FIRE WORK SHOW 6-channel SUNN 350W head with 2 N THE FIRE WORK SHOW cabinets call x1414 E 
450/best offer L STEPAN CENTER 9 p.m. Friday ? RAIN: Stepan 9 p.m. Saturday We'll Be Back In August! 
Couch and love seat for sale---real ------------­The Fireworks Show will last cheap. Ouija Board, CO's, fridges approximately 20 minutes and is a and MUCH MUCH MORE for 
Juniors! Juniors! 
rescheduled AnTostal event....due sale---real, real cheap. Call Jeff the 
Submit copy of resume and
to rain I We hope you enjoyed pennis or Tim the stud at 283-1873. AnTostall The first 300 will receive We're being put in jail for touching 
disk to Career and 
an AnTostal souvenir. little boys, so everything must go. 
Placement Services for Resume Books now! Deadline: Friday, May 10 
AnTostal '91 JIM GORDON-
AnTostal '91 AnTostal '91 Who said you never get personals??ll 
disk to Career and Placement Services for Resume Books now! Deadline: Friday, May 10 

AVMA8U 
ArniMIM '"'**' 
-WASHER & DRYER 
-SECURITY SVITEM 
-DISHWASHER -CENTRAL AIR -PATIOS 
ONlVA FEW APARTMENTS LEFTI FOR MOAE N'O NOW. 232-Gfll 
AP Photo 


fourth inning to break the string. 
Winner Greg Maddux (3-1) went eight innings, giving up nine hits and seven runs, four of them earned. 
Pirates 6, Reds 4 

CINCINNATI-Barry Bonds singled home the tying run in the eighth inning and executed a double steal with Bobby Bonilla for the game winner as Pittsburgh rallied past Cincinnati. 
Randy Myers (0-2) failed to hold a one-run lead in the eighth, blowing a save for the second time in five chances. A single by Andy Van Slyke, a walk to Bonilla, and Bonds' single tied it 4-4. 
Myers then caught Bonds breaking for second, but Bonds beat the throw from first baseman Hal Morris as Bonilla took off for home and easily scored the winning run. 
Padres 8, Mets 7 

NEW YORK-Bruce Hurst im­proved to 3-0 and singled in a run as San Diego beat Frank Viola and New York to snap a four-game losing streak. 
Fred McGriff, who hit his third home run to lead off the fifth inning, also had a pair of singles and fmished with three RBis. 
Hurst scattered 10 hits in 7 2­3 innings, in raising his career , record to 4-1 against the Mets. Viola (3-1), dropping 1-4 life­
time against the Padres, saw his ERA soar from 0.86 to 1.93. The left-bander gave up five runs and eight hits in six-plus innings in failing to hold a 3-0 lead. 

No-hitter 
Nolan Ryan thre a no-hitter last night against the Blue Jays. See page 17. 
.,...___________;;,...;;.,.;.,._____ 
Whenyou partyremeinber to... 

Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober­orvou're not sure-let somrone else do the driving. 
.-1 ml'ssagl' pnl\idl'd h1 lh" nt·ll~paper 
Expos 9, Dodgers 3 Angeles 9-3. 
MONTREAL (AP) -Chris Nabholz (1-3) gave up two Nabholz pitched six strong in­runs, six hits, struck out a ca­nings and Montreal Expos took reer-high seven and walked advantage of the Dodgers' two. sloppy defense to beat Los~-------------.
"ASSURED, AUDACIOUS 
AND SURPRISINGLY EXHILARAnNG. 
Christian Slater proves charismatic, smooth and sexy." 
-Joy Gould hyum, US MAGAZINE 
Cinema at the Snlte 
FRI AND SAT 7:30, 9:30 


page 16 The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1991 
SPOR1S BRIEFS

Ville de Paris wins Cup prelim 

SAN DIEGO (AP) -Ville de Paris, launched less than three weeks ago, led at every mark Wednesday and won the first race of the pre-World Championship Regatta for the new International America's Cup Class yachts. 
Skipper Marc Pajot's Ville de Paris sustained a snapped pully early in the second race -won by Paul Cayard aboard II Moro di Venezia of Italy -and dod not fmish. 
The Nippon, skippered by Chris Dickson, was second in both races while the Stars & Stripes, sailed by Dennis Conner, was third in both. 
The two-day pre-worlds are a practice for the inaugural IACC World Championships, the first formal competition for the new yachts. The IACC yachts re­placed the 12-meter boats used from 1958-1987. 
The French syndicate has had only three days of testing in the Ville de Paris. The yacht navi­gated the windward-leeward, twice-around course in 1 hour, 24 minutes, 39.1 seconds. 

The Nippon, second at every mark, was 33 seconds behind. Stars & Stripes, third at each mark, had its spinnaker blow out on the last leg of the 10­mile course and finished 1:54. behind the Ville de Paris. 
Pajot's crew includes the nu­cleus of his crew from the French Kiss challenge, which reached the semifinals of the 1987 America's Cup 
The wind picked up for the second race, which II Moro di Venezia won in 1:13:17. II Moro di Venezia, one of two Italian yachts that share the same name, was 7. 7 seconds ahead of the Nippon and 51.1 seconds ahead of Stars & Stripes. 
Cayard, a native of San Francisco and now an Italian resident, was fourth in the first race. The other Italian yacht, skippered by John Kolius, was last in the frrst race and fourth in the second. 
The other American syndi­cate, America3, sailed both of its yachts in the first race. 

Dibble's antics cause trouble with teacher 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Rob Dibble's critics have contended for years that he needs to grow up. Now the Cincinnati Reds reliever is saying it, too. 
By hurting a first-grade teacher with his latest angry outburst, Dibble has alienated some of his fans and toyed with another punishment from the National League. The Reds indicated Wednesday they plan no action against him. 
The incident has prompted a little soul-searching by the re­liever. 
"Things happen, especially to me," Dibble said Tuesday night after getting his fifth save in the Reds' 4-3 victory over Pittsburgh. "You can understand the pressure which players are under to perform, and I'm just one guy who doesn't handle it that well. 
"I have to mature. I have to come to grips with it. I have to come to grips with handling the pressure." 
Pressure has been Dibble's pedestal and his purgatory. 
The 27 -year-old Dibble has his best moments in the tough­est pressure: Runners on base, a big game on the line, needing a strikeout to protect a lead. 
He's come through brilliantly. During the Reds' NL playoff and World Series wins last year, he was superb. Dibble struck out 14 batters while giving up just three hits in 9 2-3 innings, and shared MVP honors with fellow "Nasty Boy" Randy Myers in the NL playoffs. 
Opponents know he can be nasty in other ways, too. He's belittled batters after striking them out and referred to opponents with obscenities. 
But it's failure that brings out his nastiest side. 
After giving up a meaningless spring-training homer in 1989, he attacked benches outside the Reds' Plant City, Fla., clubhouse with a bat and threw folding chairs in a nearby pond. 
Result: a fme. 
When the season began, he drew a suspension for heaving Terry Pendleton's bat against the backstop screen at Riverfront after giving up an RBI single to him. 
Then came a pitch that hit Tim Teufel and touched off a 
brawl with the New York Mets. Another suspension. 
Finally, he ended the 1989 season with a suspension from the team for refusing a coach's instruction to take a pitch. 
It took him two appearances this season to draw another punishment. NL president Bill White suspended him for three days for throwing a fastball behind Houston's Eric Yelding after giving up an RBI single to pitcher Curt Schilling. Dibble continues to pitch pending an appeal. 
On Sunday, he heaved the ball into the outfield stands at Riverfront after his worst per­formance of the season. The ball struck frrst-grade teacher Meg Porter, 27, on the elbow, requiring medical treatment. 
Dibble met with Porter to apologize Wednesday, and Reds controlling partner Marge Schott released a statement later in the day indicating there would be no disciplinary action by the team. 
"Rob is sincerely embar­rassed by his actions and sorry for this incident," the state­ment said. "He has been ad­monished by the club for his behavior." 
The teacher accepted his apology, according to her lawyer, Don Moore. Dibble also has offered to pay for her medical expenses. 
"I really hope he can over­come the Nasty Boy image out­side the ballpark," Moore said Wednesday night. "He came across to us as a gentleman." 
Something about failure makes Dibble lose his compo­sure. 
"It's like going back to the Romans. I'm a gladiator out there," he said. 
He's not only combative on the field. He routinely lashes out at critics who see him as a behavior problem. After admitting that he was wrong to throw a baseball into the stands, Dibble characterized himself Tuesday as persecuted for his actions. 

"You do one unfortunate thing and they bring up your whole past," he said. "I think I'm paying the price right now and I think I'm going to pay the price for a long time, just thinking about it. But I can't dwell on it. 
•Spons Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office Syndicate president Bill Koch on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefssailed America3's new boat to must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 
fourth place, three minutes be­hind the Ville de Paris. Gary 
•WVFI will hold an organizational meeting at 8:00 pm tonightJobson finished eighth in the in the 2nd floor LaFortune studio for anyone interested in working syndicate's other boat, which it in the station's sports department Any questions, call Mike at 283­purchased from the French. 
4018. 

Jobson was sixth and last in the second race. Koch did not 
•Irish Guard: Anyone interested in trying out for the Irishcompete in the second race. 
Guard who missed the first informational meeting should call Following the top four in the 
Chris Woods at 283-1606. 

first race were New Zealand, sailed by David Barnes; II Moro 
•The Fellowship of Christian Athletes will meet tonight at
di Venezia, skippered by 
6:00 pm in the basement of Pangborn. We will have pizza to
Cayard; Spain, skippered by 
celebrate our last meeting of the year. For more info call Mark at Pedro Campos and Antonio 
283-1606. 

Gorostegui; America3, skip­
pered by Jobson; and the other championship fleet racing. That II Moro di Venezia, skippered by course, much more challenging Kolius. than Wednesday's course, is 
Following the top three in the 21.2 miles and has eight legs. second race were Kolius, Included is a zig-zag lap that Barnes and Jobson. leads to a difficult buttonhook 
turn. 

The skippers were not avail­able for comment after the The world championships be­races. gin Saturday with five days of fleet racing. The top four yachts One race is scheduled will advance to the match-race Thursday, on the same course semifinals on May 10. The that will be used for the world winners advance to the finals 
on May 11. Nine boats from six countries will participate in the worlds. 
Not all challenger syndicates are participating in the worlds, which have no official bearing on the 1992 America's Cup. The defender and challenger trials will begin in January, with the America's Cup races in May. 
Conner is the defending America's Cup skipper. 

Kings and Raiders ban clothing 
BOCA RATON, Fla. (AP) -below the enlarged word Officials at a junior high school "Kings." have banned all clothes with But clothes alone don't make Los Angeles Raiders and Kings gang members, Melita warns. logos to head off the spread of Administrators also should look gangs but were rethinking the for other signs of a gang policy after a number of stu­problem before jumping to con­dents defied the ban on clusions, he said. Wednesday. 
Although they don't have a "It's up to administrators to gang problem yet, Loggers Run make the call," Melita said. Middle School in suburban Boca "There is a fine line between Raton took the step as a fad and gang clothing. Just be­precautionary measure, said cause a kid wears a Raider hat, Murray Harris, spokesman for it doesn't mean they are _i_!l 1l gang." 
Loggers Run officials were concerned enough to take sil­ver-and-black Raiders baseball­style caps from students, Harris said. 
Randall Yates, assistant prin­cipal at Christa McAuliffe Middle School in suburban Boynton Beach, says he has confiscated Raiders caps throughout the school year be­cause wearing them violates the .Q.r!)§Ji P!>!J!l.· 

the Palm Beach County School , ...---------------------
....•District. However, he added the school 
PRIME TIME 
is reconsidering the policy after 
1;1i1f----~V~ID~E~O~P~R~O~D~U~C~T=I~O~N~S~---~ 
a number of students defied the 
• 288-0322. 
ban on Wednesday. "We're still feeling our way with this," Harris said. "The 
Capture The Beauty

principal is gathering more in­formation." 
Of Your Wedding Day 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said Wednesday the league has 
/

initiated a program aimed at 
· discouraging gang violence. r.y"· ' j' 
gangs wearing sports and other 1"We're aware of the issue of ~~===!!~======?~-=·=====~====~ 
fashionable apparel and we're taking steps to address it," he said. 
The NFL is issuing cards enti­tled "Think About It" with football players saying "Join a team, not a gang," he said. 
NFL Properties, which li­censes all use of the logos, also is preparing anti-gang public service announcements for broadcast media and newspa­pers, Aiello said. 
Harris said the Loggers Run school officials acted after lec­tures from a consultant on gangs. 
The consultant, Joe Melita, an assistant principal at Stranahan High School in Fort Lauderdale, was hired by the district to prepare for a possible northern migration of gang activity from Dade and Broward counties. 
School District Director of Security Jim Kelly said he is concerned that the Fort Lauderdale-based Zulus and Latin Kings will migrate as po­lice pressure gang members. 
Gang members wear certain clothes, hats and colors to show they are a part of gang, Melita has informed principals throughout the county since January. 
The black-and-silver logos of the two Los Angeles teams are a favorite with many gangs, Melita said. 
The Raiders logo consists of crossed swords with football player sporting and eye patch. The NHL Kings' logo is a crown 

~~~ ~ ?tZJ IHU4U IH4jtn ~ ~~ 
2/a 6ft, ~ Ia? 
Happy Belated 21st Birthday JEFF 
Love, Mom, Dad, Colleen 8 Patrick 

COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t.ft{}t11V141VJ:J SMeJ()U$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 6. 
1671 Riverside Drive 
B 

233-2212 
--~--~---..---~-­
-
j 

Thursday, May 2, 1991 The Observer page 17 
SPORlS SHORTS 
Alzado cha~ed with battery 


Cleveland Browns announced his retirement Wednesday, saying he didn't think he had what It would take to make the team this year. "I talked to some of the players and saw them on television running the quarter-miles. I knew I made the right decision," the three-time Pro Bowl nominee said at a news conference. "I thought, 'Yeah, great timing, Bubs.-Baker, 35, was with the Detroit Lions when he was named the 1978 NFL Defensive Rookie of the Year. He moved to St. Louis for three years in 1986, then played a year with the Browns. In 1988 he went to Minnesota, then returned to Cleveland for the 1990 season, in which the Browns went 3-13. He recorded 133 career quarterback sacks, including 65 1/2 since sacks were made an official statistic in 1982. "I could see me getting halfway through training camp and just having a physical breakdown," he said. "It's going to be a tough year for those people who want to wear the orange and brown -they better know it. Last year wasn't a good year and this is the way to make it better.~ 
Barkell issued citation 

HOLY CROSS FATHERS 8 
(AP} -Nolan Ryan pitched his seventh no-hitter Wednesday night in the most dominating performance of his amazing quarter-century ca­reer. 
Ryan, 44, struck out 16 and shut down the best-hitting team in the major leagues as the Texas Rangers beat the Toronto Blue Jays 3-0. 
Ryan, who became the oldest to pitch a no-hitter last season with his record sixth against Oakland, allowed only two run­ners, and neither made it past first base. He walked Kelly Gruber on a 3-2 pitch in the first inning and walked Joe Carter on a 3-2 pitch in the seventh. 
The Blue Jays, leading the majors with a .276 average, did not hit a single ball hard and flailed helplessly at his assort­ment of fastballs, sharp curves and changeups. The closest they came to hit was in the sixth on Manuel Lee's blooper to center field, which Gary Pettis caught on the run at his shoetops. 
The crowd of 33,439 chanted "No-lan! No-lan!" as he took the mound in the ninth, and Ryan (2-2} did not disappoint his hometown fans. He retired Lee and Devon White on routine grounders and finished by striking out Roberto Alomar. 
Athletics 7, Yankees 4 
OAKLAND-Oakland's Rickey Henderson surpassed Lou Brock as baseball's career stolen base leader with his 939th steal. 
Dave Henderson hit his league-leading seventh home run, Earnest Riles went 4-for-5 with four RBis, and Mike Moore Improved his record to 4-0 as the A's beat New York for the 16th consecutive time since Sept. 9, 1989. 
Rickey Henderson, after being thrown out at second base in the first inning, stole third base 
BROTHERS 
VOCATION COUNSELING 
-SENIORs­
-How do I know if I have a vocation to religious life and priesthood? 
-What are the various ministries of Holy Cross priests and brothers? 
-What is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest or brother? 
-What scholarships and financial aid are available? 
-How might I continue to consider a vocation after I have left college? 
For a personal and confidential interview without obligation, call or write the vocation director: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Box 541, Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 239-6385 
Ryan hurls no-hitter; A's defeat Yankees 

in the fourth to break Brock's 
record in 1,615 games. It took 
Brock 2,616 games between 
1961-79 to set the mark. 
Henderson broke for third on 
a 1-0 pitch from Tim Leary to 
Baines, and dived into third 
head-first, easily beating Matt 
Nokes' throw, which bounced 
before reaching third baseman 
Randy Velarde. 
Henderson pulled up the base and held it up above his head while pumping his fist in tri­umph to the cheers of the crowd. The game was held up for five minutes by a ceremony. 
Brewers 10, White Sox 9 (19) 
MILWAUKEE-Willie Randolph singled home the winning run with two outs in the 19th inning as Milwaukee outlasted Chicago White Sox in the longest American League game since the same teams played 25 innings in 1984. 
The game took 6 hours, 5 minutes and was the longest ever involving the Brewers at County Stadium. Twice the Brewers had played 17 innings at home. 
It was the longest game in the majors since Los Angeles edged Montreal 1-0 in 22 innings on Aug. 23, 1989. 
Randolph, whose two-out, RBI single capped a three-run rally in the 15th that prolonged the day, won it against Wayne Edwards (0-1}, the seventh Chicago pitcher. The hit made a winner of reliever Dan August (2-2}, who gave up three runs in the 15th, including an RBI single lined off his neck by Ozzie Guillen. 
Tigers 6, Royals 4 

KANSAS CITY-Lou Whitaker had two RBis and Mickey Tettleton a two-run homer as Detroit swept its first three­game series at Royals Stadium in seven years. 
Bill Gullickson remained un­beaten in three decisions as the 
Coach 
continued from page 20 
practices. Perhaps someone should tell that to Digger Phelps. 
Highly placed sources in the Notre Dame basketball pro­gram have reported that the embattled Phelps knew well be­fore Christmas that he would be leaving his office for good by season's end. 
Yet at his farewell press con­ference, Digger maintained that he had not been forced to leave. It would be nice to believe that, but it is simply too difficult a task, even for the most devout disciple of Digger. 
Why the skepticism? Easy. 
Why did Pete Gillen suddenly become turned ofT by thoughts of coaching at Notre Dame? Why did Bobby Cremins, who is as Irish as Galway Bay, decide to stay at Georgia Tech? Why did John Shumate tell the media that his being interviewed did not mean he would take the job? 
No farewell ceremony? No Monogram Room dinner at $200 a plate to say goodbye and at least give him a nice watch? Smells funny. 
Yet perhaps the biggest call to skepticism is recent history. Remember Father Beauchamp's million-dollar NBC television contract? Fans, victories and hence money (advertising, concessions and otherwise) were lacking in the most recent campaign. Could financial concerns have Tigers handed the Royals their sixth loss in a row and swept at Kansas City for the first time since winning a two-game series in 1985. 
Mike Boddicker (2-3} contin­

ued his career-long trouble with 
the Tigers, allowing six runs on 
eight hits in 7 1-3 innings. 
Boddicker is 6-13 lifetime 
against the Tigers, his worst 
record against any American 
League team. 
Orioles 2, Mariners 1 

BALTIMORE-Bob Melvin's infield single in the sixth inning broke up Randy Johnson's no­hit bid and drove In the go­ahead run for Baltimore. 
Johnson (2-3}, bidding for his second career no-hitter, couldn't overcome his own wildness. He walked seven, in­cluding four in the sixth, and was removed in the seventh after giving up a single to Craig Worthington. It was only the second ball he allowed to get out of the infield. 
Down 1-0, the Orioles sent eight batters to the plate to take the lead. Johnson walked Dwight Evans to force in the tying run, and Melvin followed with a slow-rolling grounder to third that Edgar Martinez grabbed and quickly threw to first. The throw was wide, but Melvin was credited with a hit. 
Twins 1, Red Sox 0 

MINNEAPOLIS-Scott Erickson pitched a two-hitter and struck out career-high seven in his second consecutive shutout, and Dan Gladden hit a solo homer for Minnesota. 
Erickson (3-2}, who pitched a five-hitter for his first major­league shutout Friday against Seattle, held the Red Sox hitless through 5 2-3 innings before Jody Reed's bloop single to left field. Erickson walked one while extending his scoreless streak to 22 Innings. 
motivated such a high roller as Beauchamp? Don't forget that the good ole Knight Commission was careful to point out that college sports should not be focused on money, and that Notre Dame was a model for the report. 
Disillusioned? Sorry. The facts are accessible, so go fig­ure. No matter how squeaky clean the Golden Dome looks from afar, It may, upon closer inspection, be In need of a seri­ous rub-down with some harsh, abrasive cleanser. It Is not dif­ficult to conceive of coaches, seeing the dismissal of Phelps, would be as wary of coaching the Irish as they would of pick­ing up a rattlesnake. 
While Dick Rosenthal stated that the search for a coach "has progressed as well as one would have imagined," the lis­tener does a double-take. Before the circumstances sur­rounding Digger's removal cir­culated, it was possible to count on one hand the people who thought that Gillen would stay at Xavier. 
Just this week It looked as If the Irish would, uncharacteris­tically, almost have to beg for a coach. 
Still don't believe the skeptic? Think all coach hirings go on like this? Did you really believe that this many coaches would shun Notre Dame? You're free to be wrong. 
John MacLeod be forewarned, If you think that New York City is a jungle, walt until you try to chop through the woods at Notre Dame. 
--~--~-­

page 18 The Observer Thursday, May 2, 1991 
Rickey Henderson breaks record; thrown out twice 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)-Matt Nokes doesn't mind that Rickey Henderson became baseball's all-time base stealer at his ex­pense. He just hopes when the record's looked up that people will notice his footnote. 
The New York Yankees catcher threw out Henderson on two out of three steal at­tempts during the Oakland Athletics' 7-4 win Wednesday. But Henderson stole third base in the fourth inning to register his 939th career steal, one more than Lou Brock. 
"I just wanted to throw him out at least once," said Nokes, traded to New York last June from Detroit. "It feels great and I was glad I threw him out again. 
"He's a great baserunner and he's going to get it anyway. The way I thought of it, it'd be nice to throw him out every time but if you don't, you're a part of history and it's an honor." 
He knows he'll be remem­bered as the opposing catcher when Henderson set the record but Nokes said he hopes to be remembered for throwing him out twice. 
''I'll remember it, that's for sure," he said. 
Nokes, who also homered in the fourth inning, nailed Henderson in the first with a perfect throw to second after the A's leadoff hitter led off with a walk. 
In the fourth, Henderson reached on shortstop Alvaro Espinoza's fielding error and advanced to second on Dave Henderson's infield single. 
Henderson withstood two pickoff throws before taking off on the second pitch to Harold Baines and beating Nokes' throw to third. The pitch from Tim Leary was inside and down and Nokes' hurried throw short-hopped third baseman Randy Velarde. 
"I knew our chances of get­ting him then were slim," said Velarde, who nevertheless wel­comed the chance to be a part of baseball history. 
"I congratulated him," Velarde said. "I mean, it's an all-time record, something that stood for many years and it was finally broken." 
Said Nokes, "He got a great jump. I don't even think a per­fect throw would have got him and it wasn't a good pitch to 

AP Photo Rickey Henderson, shown here against the Twins, broke Lou Brock's record yesterday when he stole third 
against the Yankees. 

throw on either." Nokes got some revenge in 
Nokes added his congratula­the fifth. Henderson doubled tions a little later, shaking with one out and tried again to Henderson's hand when he steal third but was erased on a crossed the plate on Baines' RBI good throw by Nokes. single. "It seemed like every time I ran 
"I'd never done that before, he was throwing the ball on the but I was glad to be part of it so money," Henderson said. I had to shake his hand," Nokes That's the only way to get said. Henderson out, Nokes said. 
"Everything has to be right when you throw him out," said Nokes. "You've got to have the right pitch and you've got to throw it right there." 
Jose Canseco, Ernest Riles and Lance Blankenship also had steals in the game for the 1\s. 
Tiger Athletic Foundation breaks monetary statutes 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) -both in athletics and aca­The LSU Tiger Athletic demics," Ferguson said. "If we Foundation has violated state thought we were in violation of law by spending public money state law, we wouldn't be in op­for non-public purposes, state eration." Inspector General Bill Lynch Lynch's report follows several 
said. years of debate about whether 
In a report Tuesday to Gov. the TAF, a non-profit corpora­Buddy Roemer, Lynch said ex­tion, actually is a private entity amples of possible misuse of or a public organization subject taxpayers' money by the boost­to state control. ers organization include pay­State Sen. Larry Bankston, D­ment of country club member­Baton Rouge, said he has pro­ship dues for former football posed a law that would give coach Mike Archer, bonuses to non-profit groups like the coaches and some expenses for foundation private status so it coaches' wives. can spend money on private 
LSU Chancellor William "Bud" and public projects. Davis disagreed with Lynch's Bankston said the Legislature claim that the foundation is a passed a law last year giving public body. He said the the foundations the right to university has requested an raise money by selling seats at opinion on the issue from state athletic events for prices that Attorney General William are substantially higher than Guste. face value. 
Davis said LSU isn't doing Lynch's report focuses on the anything differently than almost sale and use of 4,542 Tiger every other university in the Stadium tickets that, he says, country. are irrevocably assigned to the 
"If our foundation is a public TAF by the LSU Board of body, it would be the first in the Supervisors, a state agency. country affiliated with a uni­Lynch's report said the TAF versity in that sense," he said. declared a total of $1.1 million 
John Ferguson, executive di­on its 1988 federal tax return, rector of the foundation, said he with most of the revenue com­did not believe the organization ing from the sale of the tickets. was violating state law, and The report contends that called the report a "tempest in seating in a public university a teapot." stadium is owned by the state 
"Obviously, we believe that we and cannot be doled out to pri­are a private group which does vate organizations for their a lot of good things for LSU, personal benefit "regardless of 
the merits or well-meaning in­tentions of those groups." 

The tickets, which Ferguson said actually total 5,200, are sold individually and in groups. A surcharge is added to each ticket, ranging from $100 to $500 each, he said. 
The money from the price of the ticket goes to LSU. The money from the surcharge goes to the TAF. 
Lynch contends that all the money belongs to the state. Ferguson said the TAF dis­agrees. 
Tiger fans who purchase tickets through the foundation do so with the understanding that the money will be used to support athletic programs, Ferguson said. 
In his report, Lynch said, "The Foundation's. principal source of income is derived from the 'right' to sell tickets to athletic events at LSU. This is a 'right' that the university could just as easily exercise itself to generate income, and therefore is an asset of the university, which cannot be donated to a private organization. 
"While the foundation may be used as a vehicle to exercise that 'right,' the funds derived therefrom may not be used for private purposes." 
Even if the foundation were not a public body, the money it derives from the rights fees to assign seats is public money, Lynch said. 
"The issue of how booster 

Hoop 

WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
continued from page 20 
MacLeod was 32-38 in his short season with the Knicks and has a 707-657 regular-sea­

10:00 am May 2, 1972· 
son NBA record. He coached the Dallas Mavericks for two 

South Bend•s Finest Hour 
seasons before being fired 11 games into the 1989-90 season. Before that, MacLeod coached the Phoenix Suns. 
MacLeod coached at 
Oklahoma from 1967-73, com­
piling a 90-69 record and taking 
his team to three NITs. 
The Associated Press contributed to this story. 


Happy Birthday, Scott! Love, om, Dad, Ryan, Andrea, & Sea 
organizations receive and spend money is one at which auditors and government have winked for decades, largely be­cause there is no easy solution to what may be considered an effort to achieve a desirable goal through questionable methods," Lynch's report said. "The issue may only be resolv­able through a change in the 
Clothin~ & 
state constitution -a course which may not be in the best in­terest of the state." 
Lynch's written recommenda­tions asked LSU to order the TAF to stop spending funds for non-public purposes, and ad­vised LSU officials and TAF di­rectors they may be personally liable for any expenditures made for non-public purposes. 
T-rin Montgomery! You're 18! 
Usable Item 
Drive 

The St. Vincent De Paul Society 

Clothings, Furniture, Appliances, & Other Usable Items. 
ALL Residence Halls 
Monday, May 6 
Tuesday, May 14 
Monday, May 20
-
0MPU5 

MINISTRY Campus Ministry, 239-5242 
& 

The St. Vincent De Paul Society, 234-6000 

-----~--~-~­
The Observer ' . 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
5:15 p.m. Mass of Thanksgiving for the Coleman Gift 
to Sacred Heart Church. 8 p.m. All -Mozart Concert. University of Notre Dame 
Crossword 
Edited by Eugene T. Maieska No. 0321 

NOtilES 
frldo.y 
MONTY PYTHON'S
fhursdo.y 
THE MEANING OF LIFE 
Orchestra. Guy Victor Bordo, conductor with William 
Cerny, plano soloist. Washington Hall. sponsored by the 
Music Department. 
8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film, MParenthood." Cushing Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
7 p.m. Lecture, MHabltat for Humanity," Millard Fuller, founder of Habitat for Humanity. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Community Relations. 
Notre Dame 
Corn Dusted Hulls 
Frind Fish Boats Broiled I laddock a Ia Mode French Bread Cheese Pizza 
Saint Mary's 
I lerb Fried Chicken Baknd Fish Jumbo Burger Dnli Bar 

BILL WATIERSON 
~ IC..~'N 'HO'fl £\/~~iCI'It 9-iS '1ciJ SHO\Jlll SRW A~ll SMlli. 11\£ 
ROSt:S? 

I'M GlA\) '{().) SO~U\~ 
R1J\-II) 1\1£. i\t.\c B:lR ~\S 
E.\) IF'{ \I{G COI'IIJt.~t>.TIC'>\'1. 
'\£1>.\.\ well.' l'~ GQI~ iO 1\P..'IE 
TO WRf>..P II VP. "'"~ i\J ~ow 1':> A.BoJT 10 STII.R:I. 
ACROSS 28 What bugbears 49 Entrance for do Clementine's 1 Stamp of dad
31 Hall of Fame approval? 

51 Quip concluded 
botanist-­

5 "Playing fields" 
Gray 59"--We 
site Dance?"

34 Robert Giroux, 
9 Kind 

60 Not fer 14 Prado offering 61 Singer Brickell e.g. 
36 Regret 15 Carefree gait 62 Championship
37 Actress 16 Defeat Nazimova 
63 A small amount 64 Au nature!
17 Use 
38 Quip continued 

McCormick's 65 "Time is--of 
41 Stepped

machine trouble": E. 42 Nessel rode or Dickinson
18 Arise mud follower 66 Like floating 
19 --den 
island43 ShelterLinden. Berlin 67 --off (irate)

44 Coin of Malaysia 20 Start of a quip 

23 Appear 45 Biblical hymn DOWN
24 Cpl. or sgt. 47 Groom 
1 Buttes­cooking 48 Sweet item Chaumont or Manceau 2 District ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Type type 
Abbr. 4 Banked 5 Celebrated cow 26 Worship 
6 Carved 27 "Lost in emblems Yonkers" 1 Oily acronym 
25 Herb used in playwright 
B Verne skipper 29 Trout container 
9 Pep 30 From, in .-,.:::+.-~F-1 10 Total Fnedberg 
11 Wagon trailer 31 Coeur d' 12 Fulda tributary 
Idaho 

13 June bugs 32 Roofing 
-::-+:--'-1-:-:-+=i 21 Apportion again 33 Home-run king ~~+'-l 22 Artificial 35 Carpenter's 
..;..J..:::.J.:..:..L.::.J 25 Wins cutter 
SPELUNKER



HE't', Bf.l\UTJFULI WH~i A~£ You DOIN' WJTI~ THIS LOStR? LOol< Iff HIS llt»~KER! AND CflN You l(fiiLLY SEE YouRSf.LF Wlnl 
ROiilAJN-IYlAN IIERE? WOW!CHECit aJT 
THAT Tl£1 ovcHIMARSTE· LESS{ 8t1T ~oT 
ONLY 15 H£ (}fillY AND V!STELESS -Hf5 It 816. DOF?K! Rt-ID H€ r..Jflf.,/(5 FIJNfoiY-
f.WS rAND fi6'S A BAD SPW£1?1 
,TO (3ooi'/ 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each minute) . 
JAY HOSLER 

37 "The--," Wilder film 39 Actress Farrow 40 the Short, Frankish king 
45BB 46 Origination 48 Attracts 50 Squalid 53 Kismet 54 Riley's l1fe 55 Tmgly 56 Together, to 
Mehta 57 A nonwa1ter 58 Pay attention 
S T E \' E \1 .\ H T I :\ 

l)art~Ittll<)()4l 
Cushing Auditorium
.. ...--.._. ·--~· 
It could happen to you. 

8:00p.m. ~nd 1 0:30p.m. 
~~ ~~~IN~ ~2:lU:!.~J\~~~!­
$2 



.. 
·~~--~ 
-' 
Sports. 
page 20 Thursday, May 2, 1991 
MacCieod the next Irish coach? 
Shumate tells reporters John Macleod is the successor 
By DAVE DIETEMAN 
Sports Editor 
The John MacLeod-to-Notre Dame reports are gathering an explosive head of steam. 
John Shumate, former Irish hoops standout and candidate for the vacant Notre Dame po­sition, reported to the New York Daily News that John MacLeod would be the man· to replace Digger Phelps. 

"Dick Rosenthal told me it's going to be John MacLeod," are the words John Shumate spoke to Daily News reporter Peter Finney, Jr. "Last weekend was the first time I started hearing· MacLeod's name mentioned and his name kept getting stronger and stronger." 
While MacLeod did not re­spond to messages left at his hotel, he spoke Wednesday about an impending move when asked about his future. 
"I liked it here ... and I do like it here," MacLeod said after one of several scheduled meetings in New York with Knicks president Dave Checketts. "We're going to meet again and an announcement will be made soon." 
MacLeod is, in fact, scheduled to announce his intentions at an 11 a.m. press conference this morning at Madison Square Garden. Notre Dame is rumored to have scheduled a press conference for Thursday evening or Friday morning. 
When asked about taking the Notre Dame job, MacLeod said, "No comment." Yet when asked of what his plans were in light of a fallout with the Knicks, MacLeod answered in generali­ties. 
"I don't know," said MacLeod. "There have been some opportunities that have popped up and I'm going to asses the situation and take a good look at them." 
University president Father Edward Malloy said Tuesday night that the 15-day search had ended, but later said through a spokesman that he was joking. 
"We do know who our next coach will be," stated Malloy at a banquet honoring Elkhart public school employees. 
But Notre Dame spokesman Dennis Miller said that although Malloy knows the details of the search process, the comment was made to warm up an audience before his speech. "His reaction was, 'Can't any­body make a joke?" Miller said. 
Prior to Shumate's call to the New York Daily News, however, three reports indicated MacLeod would be the new coach. 
Nebraska coach Danny Nee, who took himself out of the running for the job, said Tuesday that MacLeod will get the position, while the New York Post reported MacLeod will accept the job by the end of the week. 
"I think John MacLeod is go­ing to get it," said Nee before the Knicks' season ended Tuesday night with a playoff loss to Chicago. "If the Knicks lose tonight, I think he is going to be named in the next 24 hours." 

The Post cited a source close to the search who said a Notre Dame board member declared Monday the Irish "have their man." 
Notre Dame grad and talk show host Regis Philbin, finally, declared on yesterday morn­ing's program that, according to reliable sources at Notre Dame, MacLeod would be hired. 
Xavier's Peter Gillen and Georgia Tech's Bobby Cremins have already declined chances to coach the Irish. 
The 53 year-old MacLeod is a native of New Albany, Ind., and attended Indiana State before spending one year as coach at Smithville High School, near Bloomington. MacLeod met Sunday in Chicago with Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal. 
Rosenthal, who had set a May 1 deadline to find a new coach, would not deny MacLeod's hir­ing Wednesday. 
"I think we have a strong candidate," said Rosenthal. "I'm not discussing that at this time," responded when asked if that candidate was MacLeod. 
Ever since the Knicks fired general manager AI Bianchi two months ago, MacLeod's dismissal has been expected. 
The Notre Dame job opened April 15 when Phelps an­nounced his retirement after 20 seasons. Phelps had a 393-197 record with the Irish, including a 12-20 record last season. 
see COACH I page 17 
The end is finally here 
The tragicomedy that is the search for a replacement for Digger Phelps is creaking to a conclusion, but not after having turned the Golden Dome and twin arenas of the JACC into a three-ring circus. 
"Can't anybody make a joke?," queried Father Edward Malloy, via Notre Dame spokesman Dennis Miller. Notre Dame 

Dave Dleteman 
sure can. 
Sports Editor 

This question came after Malloy proclaimed that "We do know who our next coach will be" to an Elkhart public school employee recognition banquet. 
Malloy was only warming up the audience, said Miller. And the Berlin Wall was really the foundation of what was to be the world's largest skyscraper. 
Barely two weeks ago, Digger Phelps stepped down after 20 years as head coach of Notre Dame basketball. The Irish fin­ished the 1990-91 season with a losing record and out of both tournaments, but it would be indicative of woeful ignorance to deny that the team played beyond expectations after the loss of Monty Williams, LaPhonso Ellis and Tim Singleton. 
Digger's squad narrowly lost contests to Virginia and Saint John's, games that should have been lost by 40 points apiece if Notre Dame was as horrible as critics maintained. Irish bas­ketball beat writers laughed when they calculated, after a 35­point loss to USC, that Notre Dame could not possibly win five games. 
Phelps was followed by rumors of his firing or retiring throughout the season, yet Digger's supporters, also known as the Notre Dame administration, could not be bothered to defend their coach. "We don't know Digger's plans" was the party line at 239-DOME. 
Rumors have it that Digger informed Father E. William Beauchamp of his intentions four days before resigning. Strangely enough, or perhaps by Digger's request, mum was the word among Irish officialdom. 
Adamancy turned to feelings of betrayal when Phelps finally stepped down. John Chaney, coach at Temple University, went so far as to write a column in the New York Times, stating that Digger felt betrayed after 20 years of loyal service and a perfect graduation rate. Chaney's scenario makes good sense. In March, the Knight 
Commission, co-chaired by Notre Dame's own Father Theodore 
Hesburgh, decried the hiring and firing of coaches on the basis o 
win-loss records. Fathers Beauchamp and Malloy hailed it as good 
for college athletics, but generally a formation of current Irish 
see HOOP I page 18 

Irish baseball wins two; team has highs and lows 
BY RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was an up-and-down sort of day for the Notre Dame baseball team, and although it managed to win both halves of a doubleheader, 12-0 and 11-5, it remains to be seen if the positives outweigh the nega­tives. 
In the bottom of the flrst in­ning of the second game, out­fielder/reliever/leading hitter Eric Danapilis injured himself rounding second base. The area affected is his hamstring, and it appears that at best he pulled it. At worst, he may have torn it, which severly limit the amount of time he can play the rest of the season. 
"It's a big blow. It puts a damper on the whole thing (the two wins)," said Irish coach Pat Murphy. "We have to rally around that." 
Now onto the ups. Senior left­fielder Frank Jacobs set the Notre Dame career record for home runs today, and then bet­tered it in the second game, while sophomore David Sinnes pitched well yesterday, ending a string of rocky outings. 
The first game was much tighter than the 12-0 rmal indi­cates, and the score was only 3­0 as Iate as the ruth inning. 
In the sixth inning, however, the Irish exploded like a bat out of hell. Notre Dame sent 14 batters to the plate, and nine of them scored runs. 


After Danapilis grounded out to the shortstop to start the in­ning, the onslaught began. Jacobs doubled, Adam Maisano and Cory Mee singled to lead the Irish attack. 
Soon it was Jacob's turn to hat again in the inning, and he made the most of it, hitting his record-setting home run. The senior connected on 1-1 pitch, sending it over the right-field wall in a hurry, leaving no doubt that it was gone. 
"It was a fastball that was kind of dying," said Jacobs. "I went out and reached for it." 
That shot was a fitting end to the sixth inning, because a few batters later, Cory Mee was forced out at second on a grounder to the shortstop with the Irish up by 12. 
Meanwhile, lefty Chris Michalak was doing the job on the mound for the Irish. Michalak pitched six innings, scattering three hits against four strikeouts and no walks. The sophomore hasn't allowed a run in 21 and 2!3 innings, and has_9nly allowed one run in the last 33 innings. 
Things didn't get any better for the Crusaders in the second game, an 11-5 win for Notre Dame. 
Valparaiso didn't help its cause very much, booting seven errors in the game, leading to six unearned runs. 
Although the Irish got off to a shaky start when Valparaiso's Ken Manning put the second pitch of the game over the center-field wall, Notre Dame starter Tom Price settled down allowing only one more hit in his two innings of action. 
The Irish offense picked up where it left off in the first game, scoring four runs in the first inning. Second baseman Greg Layson got on base to open the inning for Notre Dame, reaching base on an in­field single. Valparaiso short­stop Rich Henderson committed the first of his two first-inning miscues, throwing the ball past first baseman Joe Luce, allow­ing Layson to reach second. 
Craig Counsell and Joe Binkiewicz both singled, and Jacobs reached on an error. All three eventually scored. Jacobs crossed the plate on a daring bunt down the third-base line with two outs, scoring when the third baseman overthrew the catcher. 
Jacobs continued his destruc­tive ways in the next inning. After Binkiewicz and lrv Smith got on base, Jacobs hit his sec­ond clinger of the day, almost hitting the tennis courts past the right-center field wall. 
The Irish got another home run when Adam Maisano fol­lowed Jacob's hit with a homer that just cleared the center field wall, Maisano's first home run in his last 23 games. 
David Sinnes entered the game to pitch in the third in­ning, and the Crusaders couldn't touch his stuff. Sinnes pitched three innings, striking out four and allowing only one baserunner, that on a walk. 
The Irish did survive a scare when the Crusaders made a late run. Tony Livorsi had an uncharacteristically poor outing, getting slammed with four runs on six hits innings. 
The sixth inning was trouble for Livorsi. With only one out, Valparaiso had the bases loaded on three singles. He appeared to get himself out of trouble on a ground ball back to the mound, getting the out at the plate. Catcher Matt Krall's throw to first was just late, however, and the Crusaders were still alive, and they made the Irish pay for it. 
Rich Henderson's single scored two more runs before left fielder Jeff Backman grounded out to second to end the inning. 
Livorsi settled down the next inning, allowing a single run, but wrapping up the victory for the Irish. 
Murphy was gracious in vic­tory, saying, "Valparaiso's a better team than they showed today. Paul Twenge does an unbelievable job with Valparaiso. He's a class guy, and teaches his players class." 
NOTES: With three home runs yesterday, the Irish are within seven roundtrippers of a team record. Last year's squad hit 49 homers, and this year Notre Dame has hit 42 with 12 games remaining before the playoffs.. . This year marks the first time ever the Irish have had two players hit 10 or more home runs in the same year. Jacobs has 30, while teammate Binkiewicz has 12. . . When Murphy said the Irish were los­ing two players with Danapilis out of the lineup, he wasn't kidding. Not only does Danapilis have the third-highest average on the team, he also leads the team with three saves. 



