




IIH·I992 
server
IUQUICINIENNIAL 

VOL. XXIV NO. 10 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -A prosecutor on Thursday dropped charges of public in­toxication and disorderly con­duct against Notre Dame quar­terback Rick Mirer. 
"Good news for me," Mirer said. "I can relax now, and stop worrying about that and start getting ready for the game." 
Coach Lou Holtz had strongly supported his quarterback's in­sistence he had done nothing wrong. 
"It's unfortunate we all had to go through this, but that's part of life and life isn't always fair," Holtz said before heading to practice. 
Mirer, arrested during an off­campus street party last week­end, had worried the turmoil surrounding the incident hurt his concentration and No. 7 Notre Dame's preparation for its season-opener against Indi­ana. 

"With everything that's hap­pened in the last week, it's go­ing to be tough for us to keep focused," he said on Tuesday. 
Mirer rallied Notre Dame to comeback victories over Michi­gan and Michigan State his first two games last season. But he stumbiP-d as the Irish lost a fumble-marred game against Stanford, were beaten by Penn State and then by Colorado in the Orange Bowl. 
He still managed better first­year stats than former Irish stars Joe Montana and Joe Theismann. 
Mirer threw for 1,824 yards and eight touchdowns last year, including an 18-yard touch­down pass to seal the victory over Michigan and a season­high 265 yards against Navy. 
"He proved to me he was a winner and a competitor," Holtz said after a difficult road victory over Pittsburgh. 
Mirer also learned about dealing with the burdens of high-profile college football. 
"I learned that pressure doesn't have to be anything more than what you make It,"' he said. "Being quarterback at Notre Dame isn't bigger than life unless you treat it that way." 
His nonchalance was tested when police handcuffed him and took him to jail. 
"I don't have any bad feelings toward them. They're just doing their job," Mirer said. "I just 
see MIRER I page 4 

Virus infects campus computer clusters 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
A new type of computer virus that originated In the Soviet Union has begun wreaking havoc In at least two Notre Dame clusters, according to Dorothy Wilcox, administrator of the Office of University Com­puting. 

Near the beginning of the fall semester, the virus was discov­ered on DOS terminals In the Hesburgh Library and Hayes­Healy clusters, said Wilcox. The virus In the Hesburgh cluster has since been contained and cleaned. 
The problem In the Hayes­Healy cluster was more serious, as It damaged the server and rendered the hard drive useless, Wilcox said. As a result, the Hayes-Healy cluster will be closed for the rest of this week and the beginning of next week, while they replace damaged hardware pieces. 
The virus caused approxi­mately $1,000 worth of damage to the Hayes-Healy cluster. "It's a dangerous type of virus," said Wilcox. "It's not a virus to play with." 
The new viruses, c;alled mag­nltogorsk and syslock, were spread when a student tried to load In a program hll had ob­tained during a stay in the So­viet Union. In her opinion, the student did not intentionally spread the virus, Wilcox said. 
Wilcox warned that the virus could be on other students' diskettes and could be spread­ing quickly to other clusters around campus. Students may not even know that they have picked up the virus, she said, as it affects only certain files and has no effect unless the infected file is run. 
The Office of University Com­puting (OUC) is currently working to stop the spread of viruses In computer clusters on campus. 
First, they have placed anti­virus software on all worksta­tions in an attempt to detect a virus before It can do substan­tial damage to the systems. These programs, however, are not 100 percent foolproof, ac­cording to Wilcox. 
As another preventative mea­sure, consultants in the com­puter clusters will be scanning students diskettes before the students will be allowed to use the computers. 
The process takes approxi­mately one minute, according to Wilcox, and should help to stem the problem of spreading viruses. 
"If a virus is found on the diskette, I have given instruc­tions for the consultants to confiscate the disk," she said. OUC will check the infected disks, try to clean it and salvage the infected files. 
Wilcox said that this proce­
see VIRUS I page 6 

Interim government empowers republics 
MOSCOW (AP) -In a dra­matic break with seven decades of iron-fisted Kremlin rule, lawmakers on Thursday ap­proved the creation of an In­terim government to usher In a new confederation of sovereign states and put a graceful end to the disintegrating Soviet Union. 
After three days of stormy debate and intense back-room negotiating, the 1,900-member Congress of People's Deputies declared a transition period to a "new system of state relations." 
The measure they approved envisions a voluntary union based on Independence and ter­ritorial integrity for the re­publics, and enshrines democ­racy and human rights. Under the interim governme.nt, President Mikhail Gorbachev remains in control of foreign policy and the country's nuclear arsenal. 
Gorbachev, who rammed the bill through a recalcitrant Congress, praised the lawmak­ers, saying they "rose to the occasion" at a crucial juncture in Soviet history. 
"Tremendous renewal has certainly taken place," he told the Tass news agency. 
Reformist lawmaker Arkady Murashov, grinning happily, put it differently. "The Soviet Union is finished," he told reporters. 
The upheaval even threatened to sweep away the embalmed remains of Vladimir Lenin, founder of the Soviet state and Communism's most sacred symbol. Before the Congress adjourned, Leningrad's re­formist mayor) Aua.tQly Sobchak, proposed removing Lenin's body from its stately mausoleum in Red Square. 
The Congress effectively put itself out of business by approv­ing the restructuring plan, so the fate of Lenin is to be taken up later by a new and smaller legislature. 
The lawmakers' overwhelm­ing endorsement of Gorbachev's restructuring plan capped three 
! 
• 
Writers/ page 5 

• 
Defense/ page 4 


weeks of dizzying change that began with a coup by hard­liners and triggered the collapse of central authority and the Communist Party. 
All but five of the 15 Soviet republics have declared inde­pendence, and Gorbachev was poised to formally recognize the three Baltic states. He said he and his new State Council would act Friday on Baltic in­dependence. 
The passage of the measure marked a return to Gorbachev's old leadership style -finding the wave of reform and leaping to the head of it. He did not hesitate to use strong-arm tactics to win approval for his plan. 
Gorbachev dominated the huge and raucous parliament, squelching debate and refusing to accept proposals from the chamber. 
"I will not yield the micro­phone to anyone from the floor!" he said as some deputies tried to speak. "Either make a decision or not. That's all!" 

Hard-line lawmakers had mounted heavy resistance to Gorbachev's plan a day earlier, but he battered them down. After Wednesday's session, he sent lawmakers into. caucuses, where they were subjected to arm-twisting by republic lead­ers who had helped put to­gether the plan. 
Many lawmakers believed that It they had not approved the measures, Gorbachev would 

· 
simply have implemented them by decree. Also, many believed they had to act swiftly to stave off the possibility of a chaotic breakup that could even lead to Civil war. 
The measures were not for­mally presented as amendments to the Soviet 
see SOVIET I page 4 

Indiana Weekend Schedule of Events 
Friday 
3. p.m.-7 p.m. Pre-Pep Rally gathering, the Morris Inn Pat1o (weather permitting). 
6:45 p.m. The band steps-off for Pep Rrally beginning at 
Koons Band Building. ' 7 p.m. Pep Rally, J.A.C.C. Basketball Arena. 
Saturday 
7:45 a.m. Band rehearsal, Cartier Field. 9 a.~.-kl~kc;»ff Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Alumni family 
and fnends 1nv1ted to Alumni Hospitality Center, J.A.C.C. North Dome (enter gates 2 and 3). 
9:30 a.m. Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, Center for Social Concerns. 
10:30. a.m. Porn Porn Squad and Cheerleading perfor­mance, m front of bookstore. 
10:30 a.m. Glee Club concert, J.A.C.C. North Dome 11 a.m. Band concert, Main Building steps. 
12:10 p.m. Pre-game performance, Stadium. 
Sunday 6, 7, 8, 9:30, & 11 a.m. Mass, Crypt. 8,1 0, & 11 :45 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Church. 
6:45 p.m. Rosary devotions, The Grotto. 
7:15 p.m. Sunday Vespers Concert (admission free), Sacred Heart Church. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The news that has yet to happen 
There are quite a few------­

visitors and alumni on 
campus this weekend who 
will not get another 
chance to read this 
newspaper. Therefore, 
here are the top 10 things 
that will happen this year 

(which those people will Paul Pearson 
miss). Assistant News 
10. Tensions mount when Carroll Hall demands independence from the Soviet Union. This situation is defused upon realization that Carroll Hall, despite its odd location and mysterious past, is not part of the Soviet Union. 
9. Congress passes a Human Rights Act to curb the daily abuses which occur in this country. This law basically says that the NO dining halls can no longer serve meatless cheeseburgers. 
8. Campus Security, after receiving a $3 **************million subsidy from the Indiana State Police, doubles its staff and, in a move that shocks everybody, actually starts to enforce the Alcohol Policy during football weekends. 
7. The University, which has already blacklisted entertainer Billy Joel, decides to make a list of musicians who, because their songs do not contain any sexist, immoral or unpatriotic themes, will be allowed to per­form on campus. The University is expected to find a musical act which fits this descrip­tion in time for its bicentennial. 
6. A distraught freshman engineering student threatens to jump out of a window on the thirteenth floor of the Library. He is coaxed down when he is informed that his roommate, an undeserving American Studies major, would get a 4.0 upon his death. 
5. During the NO-Michigan State football game, several off-duty South Bend Police of­ficers are thrown out of the game for alleged public drunkenness, even though none of them are ever seen drinking alcohol and are not allowed to take breath tests. Although the University refuses to comment on the situation, one usher at the scene is heard to say, MThe damned Hoosier fans deserve it." 
4. The Holy Cross brothers announce that, in order to generate funds for its upcoming bicentennial celebration, they will start to brew its own brand of beer. They even reveal a possible slogan: uHoly Cross Brothers Beer-drink it and go straight to heaven." 
3. A study released by the ND Biochemistry department reveals that breathing large amounts of ethanol has the same effects as smoking marijuana on a regular basis. No one who has an 8:00 a.m. lecture class is 5urprised. 
2. A certain organization for homosexual students, after several large donations from alumni, begins to print its own independent publication. As their first act of policy, the editors ban advertisements from a certain local college which, in their own words, udoes not conform to our high moral standards." 
1. Head Football Coach Lou Holtz, after pounding the Hawaii Rainbows 49-3, decides to stay in Honolulu. "Hey," he says, "if you were me, would YOU go back to that winter wasteland known as South Bend?" Enjoy the game, everybody! 
Today's Staff 

Friday, September 6, 1991 
FORECAST: Today, sunny with a high of 79 and lows in the 50s. Friday, showers possible, high of 
77. 
TEMPERATURES: 
Denver Detroh Honolulu Houston Indianapolis London Los Angeles Madrid Miami Beach Moscow 
New York Paris Philadelphia 
Rome 
St. Louis San F ranclsco Seattle South Bend Tokyo Washington. D.C 

H  L  
86  66  
86  68  
70  50  
78  62  
79  60  
88  71  
84  54  
79  58  
88  75  
88  72  
00  59  
73  53  
82  65  
68  43  
90  77  
73  48  
82  65  
75  54  
82  64  
86  64  
82  63  
74  58  
78  55  
71  58  
89  76  
85  66  



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Cuba begins cooking fuel rationing 
• MEXICO CITY -Cuba will begin rationing cooking fuel this month to a population already trying to cope with tightly rationed supplies of food, clothing and gasoline, according to Mexico's Notimex news agency Thursday. Cuba's austerity measures began last year, when Soviet aid and trade began diminishing and trade with eastern European nations dried 

up. The disintegration of communism has stripped Cuba of an estimated 90 percent of its imports, but President Fidel Castro has vowed to stick to his hard-line path. 
NATIONAL Coca-Cola to work with talent agency 
•ATLANTA -The Coca-Cola Co. has hired the Hol­lywood talent agency Creative Artists Agency Inc. to develop worldwide marketing strategies for the soft drink maker. The joint projects will include marketing, promotions, new technologies, sports, arts and enter­tainment, Coca-Cola said in an announcement. CAA represents top actors, actresses, writers, directors, producers and performing artists, including Tom Cruise, Dustin Hoffman and Madonna. Coca-Cola has been 
OF INTEREST 

•The 
International Student Organization Picnic will be today at the Holy Cross Field from 4-6 p.m. 

•A 
closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous will be held at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday in the Multipurpose room, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Notre Dame Alumni Association. 

•All 
new and continuing members of the ND/SMC First Aid Services Team this Sunday, Sept. 8 at the ND Stadium Press Box (between gates 14 and 15) at 1 p.m. Be there. Curious Georges welcome to attend. 

•campus 
Ministry will sponsor an informational meeting for anyone interested in participating in the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA) or Confirmation 


facing rising pressure to improve its advertising and marketing campaigns, which have been criticized recently by some industry analysts as lackluster and outshone by Coke's rival, the Pepsi-Cola Co. 
Caterpillar takes case to UAW 
•PEORIA, Ill. -Caterpillar Inc. moved ahead in negotiations with the United Auto Workers union by appealing to union members to avert a strike­authoriz-ation vote Sunday. Caterpillar made the appeal jn letters mailed to its 17,000 UAW-represented factory workers. "This letter doesn't solve their problem," Karl Mantyla, UAW Spokesman said, '"At some point, they must bargain in good faith." Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of earth-moving machinery, also mailed each worker a copy of its three-year contract offering aproposal including a 3 percent increase in wages and benefits each year before giving authority to call a strike. 
INDIANA Alcoa notifies employees of layoffs 
•LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Thirty-five workers at the Aluminum Company of America's Lafayette plant will be laid off. Alcoa is reducing the 1,375 member workforce to match the quantity of orders, spokesman Dan Gaudiano said. The workers were notified Wednesday that the layoffs would take effect Monday. The company 
produces aluminum tubes at the Lafayette facility. 
programs this year. The meeting will be Sunday, Sept. 8 in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. The meetings will take place at 4 p.m. for candidates and sponsors interested in RCIA, and 5 p.m. for candidates and sponsors interested in Confirmation. For further information, call or stop by Badin Campus Ministry: 239-5242. 
•A 
celebration liturgy on the feast of "Our Lady of Charity-," patroness of the Cuban people will be held Sun­day at 6:30 p.m. in the Log Chapel. Mise en Espanol. Reception following. 

•students 
on the waiting list for on-campus housing, please inform Student Residences of your local phone number and address. 


MARKET UPDATE ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
Prodcutlon  
Cristina Ortiz  Illustrations  
Peggy Crooks  Jake Frost  
Kelly Lynch  Graphics  
News  Ann M. Conrado  
Frank Rivera  VIewpoint  
Megan Junius  Caroline Giannuzzi  
Sports  Lab Technician  
Rich Kurz  Macy Hueckel  
Irish Football  Scoreboard  

Kristin Co~st::!:::.:el~lo:..,____.:::D.:::.av.:.:e::.;Mc:.::.:::::M:.::::::ah:.::o:::.n:..._ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 5 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 162.25 Million 213.47 + .48 COMPOSITE 389.67 .....30 DOW JONES INDUS1RIALS 3,008.50 0 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD.. $ 1.60o $348.20/oz. 
sn..VER + 4.2¢ to $3.923/oz. 


• 
In 1920: Jack Dempsey holds onto heavyweight crown, knocking out Billy Miske in the third round at Benton Harbor, Michigan. 

• 
In 1932: Spanish republic abolishes the death penalty. 

• 
In 1943: United States asks Chinese Nationalists to join with Communists and present unified front to Japan. 

• 
In 1972: Amnesty International accuses Brazil of torturing political prisoners. 

• 
In 1980: Chris Evert Lloyd beats Hana Mandlikova in New York for U.S. Open title. 



curriculum. 

You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 
'Baptism :fu{{ Comm~nion Confirmation 
in the Catholic Church 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ... 
§1IJNID>A1!II §lEIP"IriEMIDlEIR ~ 
IHIC!!?~lh>mll'~llu 1Lnlbll'~lf1 lL.<IDmrru~C!!? 
'Baptism
2TOPPINGS 

For unbaptized people interested in joining 
FOR THE PRICE OF 1. 
the Catholic Church and their sponsors 
Not valid with any other promotional offer. Limit one per customer. 
!fu[[ Communion 
Coupon expires-----­

For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion
Coupon redeemable only at: 

in the Catholic tradition and their sponsors 
Confirmation 

For Catholics interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation and their sponsors
,----------------------, 
TO REGISTER FOR THESE MEETINGS OR FOR MORE INFORMATION 
I BUY ONE LARGE COLOMBO, I 
1 GET ONE SMALL FOR FREE. 
• call or visit
I 
Campus Ministry
Not valid with any other promotional offer.

I 
Limit one per customer. 

Badin Hall Office
I Coupon expires _____ 
-(2\MPUS 239-5242 
I Coupon redeemable only at: 
MINISTRY

I 
Friday, September 6, 1991 
Deep concentration 
and a reputed cocaine kingpin
Saint Mary's senior Bridget Awe creates a new piece at the pottery 
have been indicted on charges
wheel Thursday afternoon. Awe prepares for her senior compos­
of conspiring to launder mil­
ite, the final project of an art major at Saint Mary's College. 
lions in drug proms. The indictment was unsealed ,---------------------------.hours after news that one of the 
efendants, former BCCI trPasnrP.r SP.vP.d Ziauddin Ali Akbar, was arrested in France on Tuesday. 
The indictment charges Akbar and five other BCCI officers,
Back to Cool 
along with reputed Medellin cartel kingpin Gerardo "Don Chepe" Moncada, with conspir­acy to use BCCI as a racketeer­ing enterprise to launder $14 million. 

Robert Mueller III, the head of 
The Observer 
page3 

Officials could have stopped BCCI actions 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Federal officials ignored danger signs concerning the Bank of Credit and Commerce International and even "squelched" actions recommended by investigators, losing the chance to stop illicit activities much earlier, a congressional report released Thursday charges. 
In July, regulators in the United States, Britain and other countries shut down operations of BCCI, now at the center of a global scandal involving alleged massive fraud, laundering of drug money and support of terrorists. 
The report by the House Judi­ciary subcommittee on crime and criminal justice said U.S. officials knew about BCCI's ac­tivJties as early as 1983, but overlooked a pattern of mis­conduct. 
"There were people hot on the trail and they were told not to go ahead," Rep. Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat who is the subcommittee's chairman, said at a news con­ference. 
"Now, the government seems to be doing a better job" of pursuing BCCI, Schumer said. "Unfortunately, much of the damage has been done." 
Meanwhile, federal prosecu­tors announced in Tampa, Fla.,
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
that six former BCCI officials the Justice Department's criminal division, continued to defend his agency's handling of the BCCI case, saying any de­lays in pursuing the allegations "have been remedied." 
Treasury spokeswoman Claire Buchan said the report "has some inaccuracies." If the congressional investigators had interviewed more witnesses and examined more documents, "they might have had different conclusions," she said. 
The Treasury Department in­cludes the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Customs Service, which are named in the report. 
While criticizing the govern­ment's handling of BCCI, Schumer stopped short of blaming specific officials or making accusations of a con­spiracy. He didn't rule out the possibility, however, that influ­ence-peddling and even bribery by BCCI could have played a role. 
At a Senate subcommittee hearing last month, former U.S. Customs chief William von Raab said "lackadaisical" officials at the departments of Treasury and Justice -·as well as prominent Washington power brokers -were responsible for the government's failure to pursue alleged criminal activity by BCCI. 
Since then, legislators have been scrambling to determine how much government officials knew about BCCI's illicit activi­ties. 
"The government simply overlooked the repeated run-ins that it had with BCCI. its offi­cials, customers and accounts," the congressional report says. 
"On at least two occasions, high-ranking officials squelched actions recommended by rank­and-file investigators that might have transformed the government's isolated brushes with BCCI in the United States into a full-scale investigation of a criminal enterprise of international proportions," It said. 
For example, the report says: 
-High-ranking Internal Rev­enue Service officials refused on three separate occasions in 1986 to begin an undercover probe of BCCI at the request of a Florida IRS agent who had information from a former BCCI employee. The IRS officials weren't named. 
The IRS has identified 13 separate matters in its files in­volving Luxembourg-based BCCI, "yet no one at the agency appeared to have noticed the pattern," according to the re­port. 
-In another case, an IRS agent in Tampa offered to direct a senior Federal Reserve official in Washington to former BCCI officials who could testify about BCCJ's secret ownership of First American Bankshares Inc. The report says the Fed official, William Ryback, "showed little interest" in the offer in December 1988. 
"According to the information available to the Federal Reserve, this state-ment is in­correct," Fed spokesman Bob Moore said Thursday evening. ' 'We do not believe that we were told that the IRS could provide five or six employees who could testify about the ownership of BCCI. We are still trying to obtain more information on this matter," he said. 
The Fed announced July 29 It had uncovered evidence that BCCI secretly and illegally ac­quired First American, a Washington-based bank holding company, in 1982. 
The agency said it wanted to levy a record $200 million fine on BCCI and ban nine people tied to BCCI from involvement in U.S. banking. 
The same day, a New York grand jury announced an in­dictment against BCCI, its Pak­istani founder and its former chief executive officer on charges of fraud, falsifying 
-~--------~-~--­
The Observer 

page4 Friday,September 6,1991 
New defense minister to discuss fate of Soviet troops 
MOSCOW (AP) -The new So­viet defense minister said Thursday that he would meet with representatives of all re­publics to discuss the future of Soviet troops on their territory. 
Gen. Yevgeny Shaposhnikov also told a news conference that the country's nuclear weapons are under secure control, and reiterated that even during last month's coup the controls of the Soviet Union's atomic arsenal were in safe hands. 

Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev appointed Shaposhnikov last month after Defense Minis­ter Gen. Dmitri Yazov was ar­rested for his role in the hard­line coup that seized power from Aug. 18-21. 
Shaposhnikov said represen­tatives of all republics would come to Moscow "for talks on the stationing, reduction, and withdrawal (of troops) if such issues arise." 
Soviet army troops have been involved either directly or as a back up to Interior Ministry forces in attacks on civilians in Lithuania, Georgia, and Azer­baijan in recent years. 
Shaposhnikov pledged to end Soviet army interference in the internal affairs of the republics, but stressed there would be a single army in the new union. 
He said all nuclear weapons would remain under central command. Nuclear warheads were stationed in "several" re­publics, Shaposhnikov said, but would not say which ones. 
Soviet 
continued from page 1 
Constitution, although they are sweeping in scope and in some instances supersede constitutional provisions. The interim government was expected to eventually rewrite the constitution when the new confederation is formed. 
In the end, the Congress en­dorsed the plan by a lopsided 1,682-43 vote. When the tally came up, Gorbachev nodded and clapped, and Russian Pres­ident Boris Yeltsin, seated next to him, smiled broadly. 
The plan was fashioned by Gorbachev and the leaders of 10 republics -including Yeltsin, who emerged as his governing partner after leading nationwide resistance to last month's abortive coup. 
The White House called Thursday's decisions an inter­nal Soviet affair, but appeared to welcome the prospect of an orderly transfer of central power. 

"We've said all along, as long as they continue on the reform path in both economics and politics, as long as they arrive at decisions in a peaceful man­ner that's mutually acceptable to the center and the republics, the final outcome is something that they have to decide for themselves," said deputy White House press secretary Roman Popadiuk. 
The Bush administration has suggested there is a need for some central control in the So­viet Union, especially over the nuclear arsenal. 
The new Soviet defense minis­ter, Gen. Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, told a news conference on Thursday that the country's nuclear weapons are under se­cure control. 
Shaposhnikov also said he would hold talks with represen­tatives of all republics on the status of Soviet troops on their territory. 
As part of overhaul, Congress agreed· on rapid moves toward a market economy, including the right to own property, and passed a sweeping human rights declaration. 
The human rights declaration promises freedom of speech, the press, ideology, religion, assembly, life, health and secu­rity. It also bars censorship and promises protection for ethnic minorities. 
The controlled breakup is supposed to bring more free­dom and quicker economic re­form. But some republics may use the escape from Kremlin control to roll back Gorbachev's reforms and revert to a strong dictatorship. 
Reformist legislators said that could happen in Uzbekistan, where the Communist Party still controls the press, the government and the economy. 
Another trouble spot was Ge­orgia, where the Parliament ordered most Georgian-lan­guage newspapers closed as demonstrators gathered for a fourth day to demand the res­ignation of authoritarian Pres­ident Zviad Gamsakhurdia. 
The resolution allows re­publics to choose their form of participation in the new union, and calls for immediate negoti­ations with republics that choose not to join. 
Lawmakers expect the new union to attract 10 or 11 of the republics. The Baltics and Ge­orgia are expected to sign onto an economic cooperation agreement, but Moldavia's participation is uncertain. 
Murashov, the reformist lawmaker, said working out the new confederation could take anything from two months to two years. 
Murashov also predicted Gorbachev could wind up a cer­emonial figure, like the queen of England. "Gorbachev will approve nominations on differ­ent posts, convene and dissolve (parliament)," he said. "But the real political game will be played by others." 
Under the restructuring, a new executive body will run the country, led by the Soviet presi­dent and consisting of the lead­ers of all the republics. 
The body, the State Council, will run defense, security, law enforcement and foreign af­fairs. Another body, the inter­republic economic committee, was to coordinate the national economy and implementation of the economic reforms. Its chairman will be named by the president, with the agreement of the State Council. 
The Congress, which had been the Soviet Union's highest legislative body, agreed to transfer its power to a smaller, reconstituted version of the standing Supreme Soviet legis­lature. 
Mirer 
continued from page 1 
happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. I don't think anybody was taking a cheap shot at me. They just wanted to break up the party, and they broke up the party." 
St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes dropped the drunk and disorderly charges against Mirer and linebacker Demetrius DuBose, who was arrested at the same party. 
DuBose, 20, will be charged with underage possession of liquor, Barnes said. 
"While it is important to all that these young men receive no special treatment, it is also important they receive fair and impartial treatment," Barnes said. "I am confident I have done just that." 
The misdemeanor charge against DuBose carries a maximum sentence of 60 days in jail and a $500 fine. The charge may be dropped if the junior from Seattle enters a pretrial diversion program, performs 40 hours of commu­nity service and stays out of trouble for a year, Barnes said. 
"It's over with, as far as I'm concerned, so I think that will be the option for me," DuBose said. ''I'm looking forward to community service." 
In an unrelated matter, Barnes said Notre Dame punter Jim Sexton, 22, of South Bend, faces a criminal conversion charge and agreed to enter the pretrial diversion program. 
Sexton was stopped outside a grocery store Aug. 26 and questioned about five packs of football trading cards worth $12.45 that he had allegedly taken without paying for. He denied any wrongdoing and was released. The incident was referred to the prosecutor's office. 
Barnes said five police officers who booked and photographed Mirer at the county jail said he seemed sober. The disorderly conduct charge is "not 

supported by the facts of the Bose arrest indicates we do not arrests," Barnes said. "They did fluence his decisions. arrest," he said. have reasonable probability of the best they could in a very "Nobody from Notre Dame 
The prosecutor reacted more conviction on the public intoxi­difficult situation." ever laid a finger on me with cautiously in characterizing the cation and disorderly conduct Barnes, a Notre Dame law regard to any kind of pressure, case against DuBose. "The evi­charges," he said. school graduate, said university and frankly I think they knew dence available to us in the Du-"I'm not second-guessing the officials made no attempt to in-better," he said. 
HEY STUDS OF '95 Here's what your Dog Book is missing : 

Now that you're 21
MAUREEN BUCKLEY 
get ready to put
284-5477 
those beer goggles back on! 
Love, Love, Jen, KT, Julie Therese, and Nik 





WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
PUT ON SOMETHING COMFORTABLE AND STEP INTO 
SNEAKERS 
SPORTS RI!STAURANT LOUNGI! 
•PREE POPCORN
FRIDAY-SATURDAY 
SNEAKERS 
SEPT 6 & 7 

•SATELLITE SPORTS 
$3.00 OFF

":77~E?n 11.4'/t 91J9~ 
•PIVE T.V.s TO WATCH
91J9~ 
ANY LARGE PIZZA
THE GAME 

(NOT VAUD WITH SPECIALS) EXPIRES 9/30/91

•BASKETBALL SHOOT 
•PIVE 
DART BOARDS 

•PIZZAS 
PROM SCRATCH 


o 0::.0\'7 ~ ~~l rw ~ 1~\f1 ~ rJ'IT ~ R'IT~\O oo11 ~ 001 
ND 

•EVERY 
PRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT 

•CONVENIENTLY 
LOCATED JUST OPP CAMPUS 


Located in University Lanes -1602 N.lronwood-233-BOWL 

Friday, September 6, 1991 The Observer page5 

'Literary coup'· mirrors government shake up 
MOSCOW (AP) -A bitter conflict within the union that has controlled Soviet writers for decades has led to a tense standoff with all the trappings of a suspense novel -barri­caded doors, Insults and defec­tion. 
The battle involves Russia's foremost writers and mirrors tho political upheaval following the Aug. 18-21 coup as reform­ers mercilessly hunt down any­body who may have supported the putsch. 
The feud boiled over two days after the coup collapsed, when liberal novelist Grigory Bak­lanov, radical poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko and other writers mutinied against union officials who -in Baklanov's words ­"laid the coup's ideological foundations." 
"How can we let the same people who have stained them­selves continue to represent the country's writers?" Baklanov asked in Thursday's editions of tho daily Vechernaya Moskva (Evening Moscow). 
The reformers gathered Aug. 23 and expelled those they con­sidered Russian nationalists or conservatives from the union's ruling bodies, ending their con­trol over the union's club In a 19th-century palace and over privileges ranging from better food to guaranteed plane tick­ole;. 

A week later, the Moscow City Council acted on its own in try­ing to seize the headquarters of the union's Russian republic branch, a stronghold of the 
@@[L~ @)[}D@~ 
~If 
00©Lrlru[g [Q)~[1\j] [g 
"On the Curve" in the Roc/me Memorial 
Open Football Weekends Frldsy 6:30am· 5:00pm Saturday 6:30am· one hour before game Sunday 6:30am· 4:00pm 
QUALTITGIFTS FROM THE TOP NAMES IN GOLF CLASSIC NOTRE DA.ME WGOS 
WILSON TITLEIST RAM AUREUS PICKERING HAAS JORDAN TEXACE AND MANY MORE 
Th6 GolfSloop at Not,. D"'"" i.J open March I thr• Chrinmtu. lifwll liM of 
qNtJiity Notr< D<J~M apparel aNI gifts for 1M 10/f<T i.J aWJitab/4. For more ilf/orlrUJlion on tJu. Univ•r:~ity'.t golf cour,. and pro tlaop, call: 
(219)239-6425 


hard-liners that represents nearly half the 10,000 union members. 
The traditionalists rushed to the building, locked its doors and refused to leave. The writ­ers slept Inside and kept a night watch, In what one newspaper termed a cheap parody of the anti-coup protesters at the Russian parliament. 
"What happened in the Writ­ers' Union was a literary coup," snapped Valery Rogov by telephone Thursday from inside the building. 
He said Russian "patriotic groups" -nationalists -were coming to support the writers. 
The defenders appeared to prevail this week when Moscow's city prosecutor ruled that the city council seizure was illegal. But Rogov and his sup­porters were slow to leave the building, Insisting their fight was far from over. 
Rogov declared, "The issue is not the building. They want to stage a pogrom against Russian intellectuals. The cosmo)'>olitans are now In power and the patriots have to barricade themselves." 
He Is backed by writers that include Valentin Rasputin and Yurl Bondarev, leading advo­cates of a Russian spiritual and political resurgence who have been accused of being chauvin­ists and anti-Semites. 
Their battle with "cosmopolitans" -Josef Stalin's catchword for Jews in 
Jo.hn P. O'Malley 

Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
IUINOII•INDIAJilo\ 
Auto & Property Insurance
CHICAGO 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
0MPUS i MINISTRY 
Un•vers•ry or Noire Dome 

WELCOME TO NEW BEGINNINGS 
A Campus-Wide Ecumenical Christian .. Prayer Service 
Monday, September 9 7:30pm Sacred Heart Church 
This prayer service will bring together students, faculty, and staff 
from different Christian traditions in a common prayer expression. 
The service will consist ofbible readings, prayer, singing and witnessing. 
' 

the early 1950s -has been building since Mikhail Gor­bachev began his reforms in 1985. It broke out in July when the Russian group published a manifesto entitled "A Word to the People." 
The tract, signed by its lead­ing writers, was an appeal for protection of the country from reformists who it said would let the 15 republics secede and al­low destruction of the Russian nation. 
The liberal Baklanov called It "the ideological basis for the coup." 
Both sides now say they want to create a new Writers' Union out of the old organization that for nearly six decades was the Communist Party's Instrument for deciding who and what was published by the state-run presses. 
The union still owns build­ings, including the Russian branch headquarters. It con­trols the rich Literary Fund that pays for pensions and medical care of members and subsidizes their travel. 
But the original purpose of the union -as the vigilant guardian of Soviet communist ideology -most likely will evolve with the eclipse of Com­munist rule and lose its claim as the sole agent for Soviet writers. 
Andrei Dementiev, editor of the popular monthly Yunost, said that writers "must not he isolated. I see a spiritual rather than a bureaucratic union." 

The Obaerver/Jake Peters 

Bring on the Irish I 
Head football coach, Lou Hohz, brings on the cheers of many as he speaks to many fans at the annual Dillon Pep Rally. These annual festivities take place outside Dillon Hall each Thursday before the first Notre Dame home football game. 
,.~'j/J" r! t'1. £-1'\._....J Restaurant & 
,,.~ 1'1 Cocktail Lounge 'UALL Authentic Szechuan, 
,.n Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at. .......... $3.46 
Dinners starting at. ........... .$4.95 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days 
Mon.·Thura. 11:30 e.m. to 10 p.m., Frl.-s.t. 1t :30 e.m. to 11 p.m. Sun. 6 How.y.11:JO Llll.tO 10 p.m. 
Dixie w.,N., South Bend C,_, to ....,..slnn) 7n-n;rll 
..____.___••-•-••••••••••••••a•••••-~•-·••••.....-•••--...--.-..--•--•-----•-•••• •. .,.,.., . .,.._..,.._.._ _.._, ..... .,..,. •. _....._ •. .,.._.,....,,. 
--------~ ~~----~--------~-------------------­
pageS The Observer Friday, September 6, 1991 
lacocca to leave struggling Chrysler at end of 1992 
DETROIT (AP) -Lee Iacocca, one of the auto industry's most colorful figures, will step down as chairman of struggling Chrysler Corp. at the end of next year, the company's board said Thursday. 
The board's terse announce­ment ended speculation about 
Virus 
continued from page 1 
dure will stop the virus from entering the cluster systems on campus. 
Wilcox cautioned students to be aware that their diskettes can be infected at any terminal. 
"If they get a file that's in-Iacocca 's future. Although his contract as chairman of the No. 3 U.S. automaker expires at the end of this year, Iacocca had hinted he may stay in the executive suite beyond then. 

The board said he'd stay until Dec. 31, 1992, and that it had begun searching for a succes­sor. 
fected, they're going to possibly lose that file and everything else that's on there," she said. 
Students can have their diskettes scanned for viruses for free at the Hesburgh and Hayes-Healy clusters, said Wilcox. They can also obtain anti-virus software, which will detect most viruses infecting a diskette, at the Information Re­source Center. 
.­
MUSIC CO 
SINCE 7949 

"Great Brands, Great Service, Greai Prices, Rentals·· 
AREA'S LOWEST PRICED P.A. RENTALS 
Mon Tt1urs 

II · 7 P"' h, 11 · 6 pm 
220 W. Marion Sal 10 4 prn 439 S. Michigan 
SPECIALISTS IN GUITAR & BASS REPAIRS/ 
Among those believed to be contenders are Chrysler Presi­dent Robert Lutz and Vice Chairman Robert Miller Jr. Ex­ecutive vice presidents William Hoglund of General Motors Corp. and Alexander Trotman of Ford Motor Co. are consid­ered longshots. 
Chrysler lost $810 million during the first half of this year and isn't expected to turn a profit before the fourth quarter. The company is trying to sell assets, but isn't finding any buyers. 
If events happen as Chrysler executives plan, Iacocca could leave on a high note at the end of next year. 
WE'RE PUTDNG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drvg·Frte America 
The Castle & Co. Is Your 
NEW WOLF TANNING CENTER SUITElA 
FEATURING: 
0 New Wolf Tanning Beds 
0 Facial Tanners 0 Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 0 Stereo & Body Cooling with 
Every Lounge. 272-0312 
The Castle 

St. Rd. 23 & Ironwood .Closed Monday Plenty of parking 
During 1992, Chrysler launches what may be its most important products since the K­cars Iacocca introduced to help tow the company out of a financial ditch in the late 1970s and early 1980s. 
Early next year, Chrysler will christen the Jeep Grand Chero­kee sport-utility vehicle. 
Do not throw this paper away. Please recycle. 
e Computer Of Your Choice 
286/12MHZ SYSTEM t 00% IBM COMPATIBLE 
(llhown with opCional monlto" 
• fuD IMByte llAM  • 101 key keyboanl  
• Printer Ports  • Mono VIdeo Output  
L 1 Sertal ports  • 1,1 MByte floppy Dltve  
UMMD Q.UANTmE.SI  


SAMTRON PAPER WHITE MONITOR 
• HI Resolution • 14" diagonAl 
AT AZAR·s 


• Now that 
you've danced 
the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azar·s. 
It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• 
Ave Fluffy Omelettes 

• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 

•
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 



The next time you;re not quite to call ij anight, head to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 
Restaurant for the all· 
new LATE NITE menu. lfll tame the 
Munchies. 
Ap~ti 
Big Bog 
Family Restaurants 




....____-.-.... " ....,.•. _.. _._._._ .. _•.• _•._,____._-a....~ ... •.•-··· ......... __...._~.....-.......~--. 
Friday, September 6, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Measles epidemic called worst in 20 years 
NEW YORK (AP) -Four-year­the federal Centers for Disease that children in hard-hit neigh­old Rhenita Brade doesn't know Control. borhoods get their first shot as what an epidemic Is, but she's President Bush has an­early as 6 months. And they're seen measles firsthand. nounced plans to send a team going all out to spread the 
of experts this month to six ci­word. 
"My friend Samantha, she got ties "to learn why kids aren't those little measles on her face. getting immunized." Stars like Bill Cosby are tap­And then It started itching," she Ing commercials for National said, rubbing the spot on her Health officials have several Immunization Week, Sept. 21­arm where she'd just been answers, including lack of ac­29. Former 'first lady ·Rosalyn immunized. "I don't want to get cess to health care, a shortage Carter, who worked on a na­no measles." of vaccines and parental igno­tional immunization campaign 
She probably won't, but thou­rance. in the 1970s, announced an­
sands of other kids already Most school systems require other effort aimed at children in have gotten sick In what federal proof of vaccination before a the poverty-stricken Mississippi epidemiologists say is the worst child is admitted. But Atkinson Delta. ~ outbreak In nearly two decades. said the current epidemic was 
Since 1989, the epidemic has unique in that It hit preschool­In New York, where an esti­claimed more than 130 lives ers the hardest. mated 75,000 preschoolers are 1 around the country -more Measles cases averaged about either unimmunized or under­than In the previous 15 years 3,100 a year In the 1980s. But immunized, the city and state combined. in 1989 the CDC recorded launched a campaign with a 
18,193 cases, then 27,785 in goal of "zero measles cases, 
And although the current 1990. Last year also saw 89 period," said Gov. Mario Cuomo. outbreak seems to be on the deaths -the most since 1971. Since Hispanic children have wane, officials warn that it been particularly hard hit, could rebound unless the vacci­This year, the CDC has health officials have been tar­nation delivery system is im­recorded 8,036 cases as of Aug. geting their parents with ads in proved, especially in poor areas 24. Almost half the 1991 cases Spanish-language media and where basic health care is hard so far have been in New York outreach at Hispanic commu­to come by. City, including 15 confirmed nity events. 
deaths. ..They have language barriers 
"If we don't make an effort to or other priorities in their lives try to reach those kids who are Doctors usually recommend that prevent them from coming now being born, they will turn children get two measles shots: to us" for immunizations, said Into the measles cases of 1993, at 12 months and before start­Chuck Alexander of the Los An­1994 or 1995," said William ing school. But many local geles County Health Depart­Atkinson, an epidemiologist at health officials now recommend ment.. 
TV and VCR RENTALS 
2 Semesters 

19" TV Rentals $99.95 
13" TV Rentals $69.95 VCR Rentals $99.95 FREE FAST DELIVERY 272-5959 
COLLEGIATE RENTALS 
...MICROWAVES, STEREOS... 



volunteer as a sponsor 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
for Notre Dame students who are candidates for 
!Bc.J and 23'1.wk{aj.t 
THE KERNERS RED BUD TkAil. NoRTH PHONEBUCHANAN, Ml49107 
616-471-5711
.. 
c(()) m m IUl mt11 (()) mt 

.Just 20 minutes from campus 
~ (()) mt ~ ft rr m ~1 ~ ft (Q) ID1 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME .•. 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 8 
ISO Picnic
Hesburgh Library Lounge 
4:00 For those willing to be volunteer sponsors for persons 
All are
preparing for baptism or full communion (RCIA) 
welcome!
5:00 For those willing to be volunteer sponsors for Catholics preparing for Confirmation 
This Friday, Sept. 6, at the Holy Cross field 
TO REGISTER FOR THESE MEETINGS 
from 4:00-6:00 pm. 
OR FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Don't miss hot dogs,
call or visit Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 

burgers, 
-0MPUS 
239-5242
MINISTRY 


and volleyball! 
~oiNolloDomo 

Police seek stabbing suspect 
BOULDER, Colo. (AP) -Po­lice on Thursday searched for a man believed to have raped a woman, stabbed her more than 100 times, left her for dead along a dirt road and returned to stab her again. 
The 20-year-oid woman said she managed to crawl for help after the attack early Wednes­day. 
She was in serious condition at a Boulder hospital after un­dergoing surgery for stab wounds in her chest, abdomen, legs, throat and head. The at­tack occurred near Nederland, about 15 miles southwest of Boulder. 
Authorities said the attack was among the most vicious they had seen. 
"He left her to die," said Boulder County Sheriff George Epp. 
"Somebody out there knows this guy, and they'd better turn him In, because he Is one vi­cious animal," said sheriff's Lt. Steve Prentup. 
,•' 

pageS The Observer Friday, September 6, 1991 
Current spending limits Israel warns against peace-aid link 
JERUSALEM (AP) -Prime when he meets Baker on Fri­when this sword is hanging 
Minister Yitzhak Shamir on day. over us makes a big mistake," 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Cur­the Hanford Nuclear Reserva­Thursday rejected any linkage Meridor warned. rent spending limits don't tion near Richland, Wash., the between a proposed Middle Israel television reported He added: "What kind of logic permit the Energy Department most polluted site in the East peace conference and Is­Thursday that Baker asked is it to punish these immigrants to ask for all the money it needs weapons complex. rael's request for $10 billion in Shamir in two telephone calls because there is a dispute to carry out its plan for U.S. loan guarantees to resettle ( this week to postpone the re­between Israel and the cleaning up contaminated nu­Dealing with contaminated Soviet Jewish immigrants. quest, but that Shamir refused. Americans over the settle­clear bomb factories, the de­soil, ground and surface water Secretary of State James The report said that while ments?" partment's cleanup chief said and radioactive waste storage Baker III on Wednesday asked Baker publicly only referred to Thursday. tanks should require $9.6 bil­Congress to delay considering the peace process, the key issue Baker has said the Jewish 
The government is trying to lion in 1993 through 1997, ac­the aid package in what was is Jewish settlement in the oc­settlements are the biggest ob­catch up on problems ignored cording to the new plan. The seen as pressing Israel to limit cupied West Bank and Gaza stacle to peace in the Middle for decades, when making limit for those five yearS under Jewish settlement in the occu­Strip. Israel fears the United East. weapons was a high priority the spending restrictions is $6.1 pied territories. States is trying to use the aid as The territories, captured from and dealing with toxic refuse billion, the department said. Defense Minister Moshe Arens a lever to freeze construction. Jordan and Egypt in the 1967 was a low one. Elsewhere, the Savannah, said there was "no justice or Baker is to visit the Middle Middle East war, are home to 
River complex near Aiken, S.C., logic" in trying to link aid for East later this month, and Is­1.7 million Palestinians. 
The department is in charge needs $5.2 billion worth of immigration and the peace rael television said he would About 100,000 Jewish settlers of 3, 700 hazardous waste sites cleanup work in the five-year process. arrive in Israel on Sept. 16. have moved there, and Israel and 327 tanks holding high­period but would get no more "We are opposed to any link­Foreign Ministry officials said has launched a housing drive to level radioactive waste at fed­than $3.2 billion if current age of this kind," Shamir told they could not confirm the date. sharply increase the number. eral facilities around the coun­spending caps remain. reporters. "I don't think this has Palestinians fear the rising try. any justification." Justice Minister Dan Meridor Jewish population is undercut­
Its new estimate for the next The Fernald complex in Ohio Baker said he feared the aid said Israel and the Arab states ting their goal of an indepen­five years' worth of work, re­could get no more than $2.4 bil­issue could interfere "in a very were far from agreement on dent state in the territories. leased Thursday, is $38 million. lion but needs $2.9 billion and delicate stage" of efforts to put how to bring about regional Israel is seeking the loan But spending caps enacted into the Rocky Flats weapons plant together a Middle East peace peace. The gap could widen, he guarantees to help raise funds law as part of last year's budget near Denver could get no more conference. said, if the issues of Soviet to absorb Soviet Jewish immi­deal between Congress and the than $886 million of the $1.3 Baker said he was not draw­immigration and Israel's set­grants. Some 300,000 Soviet administration limit budget billion the department says it ing "any linkage" between the tlement policy were raised now. Jews arrived since 1989, and requests to $10 billion less than needs. proposed peace conference and "Somebody (who) thinks that about 200,000 are expected in that. the loan guarantees but added: you can start such negotiations 1992. 
Estimates for the eventual The Oak Ridge National Lab­'Tm not suggesting that there's total cost of cleanup range up oratory needs $1.6 billion worth not some relationship. There to $200 billion. of cleanup work from 1993-97 will be an impact." 
If the department is given $28 but the spending cap imposes Israeli diplomats said that billion for cleanup from 1993 to an $817 million limit; and the despite Baker's comments, Is­1997, abiding by cleanup Idaho National Engineering rael's ambassador to Washing­agreements with states and Laboratory could get up to $2.2 ton, Zalman· Shoval, was ex­meeting federal environmental billion of the $2.5 billion it pected to submit Israel's re­standards "would be very diffi­needs, the five-year plan said. quest for the loan guarantees 
disallow nuke cleanup 
cult," said Leo Duffy, director of the department's Office of Environmental Restoration and Waste Management. 
However, Duffy stopped short of predicting his office wouldn't have enough money to meet its responsibilities. "That's an issue that we're going to be dealing with with OMB and Congress over the next nine months," he said. 
Energy Department spending requests, like those of all exec­utive branch agencies, go through the White House Office of Management and Budget, which decides how much money the administration will seek in its budget request. 
"The real test will be when the doors close and they have to justify to OMB their funding request," said Rep. Dennis Eckart, D-Ohio, sponsor of leg­islation that would force the government to obey &nviron­mentallaws. 


is currently accepting applications for-the following paid position: 
Photo Editor 
A two-page personal statement and a resume should be submitted to 
APPLICATIONS: 
Kelley Tuthill at The Observer by Monday, ACCEPTED: ISeptember 2-9, 1991 I~ Sept. 9, at 5 p.m. For further information CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office about this position,.contact Kelley Tuthill at 
~
103 Hesburgh Library 239·7800

239-7471 
COST: $25.00 
rAMPUS ~ 
;::._ ~INISTRY __::;~dlilllill ,,,lilllill,,IUillJI,, ,IUillJII,,llllllill,,,illllill,,llilllill,,lililllll,,IUillJII,~ 
"If they're playing chicken, ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
it's a high-stakes game of 
chicken with the White House," 
he said. By outlining needs that 


fast • Hot • Perfect
exceed budget limits, the de­partment "is going to force Ge­orge Bush into a very difficult choice: either breaking the 


• budget or breaking his promise as the environmental presi­dent." 
zza 
The nuclear waste cleanup 

SelVing
budget ran into trouble this 
year in the Senate, which voted 

Notre Dame, Saint Mary's
to cut the Energy Department's 
environmental account and use 

& South Bend area
the $182 million to develop and test new nuclear weapons. 

SR 23 north of Ironwood 
The Natural Resources De­fense Council, a private envi­ronmental group which often 
• 2-14" PIZZAS •
sues the government on behalf 

• FAMILY'P.CW. ••
: 1.. 14" RltS : 1TOPPlNC
of environmental causes, said 
it's concerned about the gov­

: 1·~4"-Z:t~ aNGS : 
•
ernment's ability to honor the 
•
commitments it made in con­
• 
sent orders and inter-agency 
•

l $m.95, ~ u_o.95,. • •
•
agreements in place at 11 sites. 

271-1177 
"Legal action may be neces­

: •.Y.Htional Toppini!S 5.'15 e;.d> : ~ '~:.,liun•l loppm~s S.~5 .:ach : 
sary to hold DOE's feet to the 

• ~~~~ \"ahd \Vilh Anr Other Coopon • ~:hd II 1th .\nr Other (oujllm • 
fire to honor these agree­ments," said Dan Reiche~ a ..........................................................................................................
council staff attorney. 

~--­
Friday, September 6, 1991 The Observer 
page 9 

Mourners gather for memorial service for 25 fire victims 
HAMLET, N.C. (AP) ­Mourners fought back tears and embraced beneath stained glass windows In a century-old church Thursday, remembering the 25 victims of this week's fire at a chicken-processing plant. 
The 150 mourners -black and white, young and old ­were led In prayer and song by pastors from several area churches. 
~, believe God is as outraged by this loss of life as we are," said the Rev. Leonard Fairley, pastor of St. Peter United Methodist Church. "Now we have the task of putting back together our lives. As we do so, we will never be the same." 
Everyone Inside First Baptist Church was touched by Tues­day's fire at the Imperial Foods plant. The blaze -the worst Industrial accident on record in North Carolina -also Injured 56. 
At Fairley's request, the mourners embraced each other. The tears began to flow. 
"It's not a question of what the white churches are doing and what the black churches are doing," said Fairley, himself upset. "We are all suffering together. The question now is: 'What can we do now?' " 
At the plant, Investigators and Insurance adjusters came and 
edward 
lPG ~~~ 

Plant Fire Scene 

DOOR Drawing is schematic and not to scale, based on preliminary reports. 
Sources: Chuck Burton. AP and Fraser Van Aach, The (Raleigh, N.C.) N-and ObBtHvtH 
went. The crowd of onlookers receded for the first time since Tuesday. 
On Friday, the first funerals are scheduled for some of the victims here in Hamlet as well as other nearby communities. 
At the prayer service, minis­ters offered comfort and prayer to the victims' families and friends. The group sang "Amazing Grace" and ~It Is Well With My Soul." 
Some mourners wept when the names of the dead were read. 
Mayor Abbie Covington of­fered her condolences. 
.. 
~0 

APICynthla Greer 

"The healing process is going to be long and difficult for the entire community," she said. "These people are our friends and neighbors. As a small community, it becomes our loss." 
The somber service did not reflect the rage of some family members and friends of the vic­tims, many of whom believe that some of the workers may have been trapped Inside the plant by locked fire exits. 
~we come now to ask for un­derstanding and strength," said the Rev. Harold Miller, a Baptist preacher. "Earth has no sorrow that Heaven cannot heal." 
At the request of the Rev. 

Barry Barbour, mourners knelt 
together around the altar. 
Nearly everyone joined In, fill­
Ing the middle aisle of the large 
church. 
"There's one thing about our 

community," Miller said. "We 
pull together in times of sorrow 
and sadness." 
The Rev. Darrell Smith re­minded the residents that God is compassionate. 
"We have a loving God who cares for people who are hurt­ing," he said. 
Fairley said he was having trouble finding comfort in the tragedy. A member of his con­gregation, 38-year-old Mary Alice Quick, died in the blaze. 
Like some of the other 18 women who died, she was the single mother of three children. 
~To visit with the families and watch a 12-year-old cry for his mother is hard to take," Fairley said. 
SObering Advice·.: cansave alife;,~1 
Think Before You Drink /~~Before You Drive .~~· · 
l 1 
:\TIL TIIFRF IS 


:\0 1.0:\El.I:\ESS,

Thursday, September 12 -"Chicago's Finest'' Irish Rock -Live! 

:\( > DESTIIl TH ):\. \:( >Sl( :K:\'ESS, 
:\'0 \\'.\R... ~

TheDro-t~e r •
"Chicago's 
answer to 

V . I;J 
Please support. 
The Pogues" 
+ 
American
-Chicago Tribune 
Red C..­

Theodore's -LaFortune Student center-Tix $5 Advance/$6 Door 
Michigan Game Lottery Tickets 
When: Monday, September 9 from 4-7 pm 
Where: Stepan Center 
Available to all Notre Dame Students Only 
Each student may present 2 student ID's for 2 Lottery Tickets. 
250 winners may each purchase 2 tickets for $22 each on Tuesday, September 10 from 4-6 pm in Stepan Center. 
Brought to you by the Student Union Board. 

-

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Good throughout school year. If you buy any large sandwhlch and 20 oz. drink, get a free large fry by showing your student ID. Not valid with any other coupons or discount. 


Mo•·Thura. ll:JO •1n--8:JOpm Frid•y 11:30-10:00 pm S•tutd•y ':JO.tO:OOpm Sunday CIOMd 

2446 Miracle Lane -~ ~ ToW!! & Coun1ry Shopping Center ·"'• 
258·4911 • Ealln Or C.1"Y Out ~ 


-...... Friday, September 6, 1991
Page 10 1he Observer 
Yugoslav army invites EC monitors 
Officials having difficulty finding Noriega trial jurors 
~Ball!,~~ -~~!!eltles 
• Holiday Stuff· Decorating ·Dee jay Service • Singing Telegrams 
Party Planning From The Smallest To The Largestl Everything Imaginable For Partfesl 
52021 US33N. 

~ (Comer of Brick Rd.) 
South Bend, IN 46637271 1556 
VivA 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
. 
• 

.\riel i• ~ ~;~Jcnred ~ PopflaniSI who hu CllaiiiOIIId audiences 
• ~mum! the l'Oimtry. His po:lbm~n.:es irx:ucporJtc ltlli¥e R..-•• !llnri<."' with l'lfttcmpnrJf\·. tr.KlitinnJJ JOO rlli~inJI ,-.piec.-n. • • ,\ 1·.•-;. citil.cn '" fi1·c \eJrs, .\rid hJs ti~lowc'\J his dlqln 10 brilllt ••• the mJ~il· JnJ wunder of the Jlianu tu c\nlCril::a. •
• 

.......................... 
•
• •
•
•
•

l~!ft~~fllll • 
• 
•
•
•
•

ARIEL • 
•
•
•

• 8:10p.m. ••• \Vashington Hall ••
•

7irlrts: $II Swdents/$10 Non-Students 
• 
available at the •
•
LaFonune Center Box OIT~ee •
•
•
• 

~~00 ~~00 ~~00 ~@~ ~W~~W@OO~ 
WHEN YOU JOIN US AND ENJOY THE LARGEST "TENT" GATE PARTY IN SOUTH BEND THE ITALIAN WAY! 
CELEBRATE THE FIRST IU VS ND FOOTBALL GAME IN 33 YEARS! FOOD * BEVERAGES * MUSIC * TV AND NO COVER CHARGE!!! 

"The Italian Ristorante" 

SEPT. 6, FRIDAY: 12PM -MIDNIGHT SEPT. 7, SATURDAY: 10AM-MIDNIGHT 
IN THE OPEN, UNDER OUR TENT, BY THE PATIOS AND BOCCI BALL COURT -OR FOR FINE POST GAME DINING ­MAKE THIS HOOSIERS VS FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL WEEKEND ONE TO REMEMBER! 
1412 South Bend Avenue, South Bend, IN (219) 232-4244 Regular Hours : 4 -11, Sunday 4 -9, Closed Monday 
• 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) -Rebel Serbs and federal forces bombarded two strategic towns Thursday in east Croatia, and the Yugoslav army took the unprecedented step of inviting Western observers to monitor breaches of the cease-fire. 
The secretive military has in the past strongly opposed for­eign observers in Croatia. 
It apparently reversed its stand to disprove accusations it has helped armed Serb rebels gain and hold territory in Croa­tia, which declared indepen­dence June 25. 
The anny, blaming Croatian security forces for the violence, urged 50 European Community monitors in the northern state of Slovenia to inspect its gar­risons and units in war-torn Croatia. 
"This is one way for the ... Yugoslav and international public to be convinced that the (army) is strictly observing the cease-fire agreement," the De­fense Ministry said. 
Croatia claims the army, with mostly Serb officers, is helping militants among the republic's 600,000 Serbs hold land that the militants pledge will never be part of an independent Croa­tia. 
Although outnumbered an es­timated 4-1 by Croatia's 85,000­man defense force, the better­armed Serbs have seized almost a fourth of Croatia's territory. 
The ethnic hatred is fanned by memories of World War II, when a pro-Nazi puppet gov­ernment in Croatia slaughtered hundreds of thousands of Serbs, and Serbs killed Croats in. retaliation. 
The army says it intervenes to keep the warring sides apart and fires only when attacked. But an EC monitor and several foreign governments have backed at least some of the Croatian claims. 

Meanwhile, Serb guerrillas in the ethnically mixed Slavonia region bordering Serbia in east Croatia appeared poised to take the key towns of Osijek and Vukovar. 
Media reported the fiercest fighting in a month around Vukovar, where Belgrade radio said federal forces and Serbs blasted the town from planes, tanks, artillery and gunboats on the Danube River. 
Seven Croat soldiers, three Serb rebels and three civilians have died since Wednesday, the Croatian HINA news agency said. 
Later in the day, a cease-frre was proclaimed in the region, when the army and Croatian forces signed an agreement ar­ranged by Henry Wijnaendts, the EC representatiye in Croa­tia, the Tanjug news agency re­ported. 
Tanjug said the Serb rebels did not sign the agreement. It was unclear whether the guer­rillas would join. 
The fighting dimmed the prospects for a EC peace con­ference with Yugoslav leaders due to open Saturday in The Hague. 
An EC spokesman said the 12­nation Community planned to go ahead despite clashes in Croatia, where more than 300 people have been killed since June 25. 
"We're counting on having the meeting, but of course you cannot deny that the violence will have an impact on the con­ference," said Dig Istha, spokesman for Dutch Foreign Minister Hans van den Broek, who has spearheaded commu­nity peace efforts in Yugoslavia. 
His nation holds the EC's rotating presidency. 
Belgrade TV said the Vukovar assault began after Croat units fired on federal troops. Croatian radio said the army fired first, and that more than 400 shells rained on the city in six hours. 
The difficulty of reaching ar­eas under fire and conflicting media reporting on both sides make it virtually impossible to learn the true circumstances of the fighting and the casualty toll. 
The same obstacles may also deter EC monitors. 
The strategic Croatian stronghold of Osijek, 24 miles northwest of ·vukovar, was heavily shelled Thursday after­noon, Associated Press photog­rapher Franz Pammer re­ported. 
About 120 mortar shells fired from the neighboring Croatian suburb of Borovo Naselje hit the Serb-held village of Borovo Selo on the Danube, Belgrade TV said. 
The army accused the Croats of "flagrant breaches of the cease-fire." 
Serb rebels north of Osijek in Bilje, captured from the Croats on Tuesday, said they were preparing an attack on Osijek, Croatia's fourth largest city and a stronghold of Croatian nationalism. 
An EC source said Thursday there were suspicions within the EC that Croatia was pro­voking the clashes to gain recognition ,from Germany, which has threatened to recog­nize it if fighting continues. 
Western military attaches in Belgrade have blamed the Croats for most of the recent· attacks on the army. 
MIAMI (AP) -A stern judge told potential jurors in Manuel Noriega's drug and racketeer­ing trial to leave politics outside the courtroom. Some can­didates acknowledged they would have a hard time doing so. 
U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler and the lead prosecu­tor began grilling a panel of 115 people Thursday, and the questioning was to continue to­day. 
The judge noted the widespread publicity surround­ing the case since Noriega's 1988 indictment and the U.S. invasion of Panama the follow­ing year -then told the panel to ignore it. 
"As far as I'm concerned, there will be nothing about this case that has anything to do with politics," Hoeveler said. 
The judge has said he hoped to seat a jury in a few days ­but both sides acknowledge it will be hard finding an impar­tial panel. 
All the potential jurors said they had heard of Noriega. In subsequent individual question­ing, several expressed doubts about being able to judge him fairly. 
"Deep down inside I know I'm prejudiced against the defen­dant," Guyanese immigrant Raymond Cheddi told lead prosecutor Michael Sullivan. "I lead a straight-track life." 
Lesbia Reyna, whose husband Dr. Roberto Reyna ran the Mi­ami-based Panamanian Human Rights Committee, rose when the judge asked if anyone pre­sent knew Noriega. 
"I know him as a violation of human rights," she said. The committee frequently de­nounced Noriega as a dictator. 
Both prosecution and defense are basing their evaluation of the jurors in part on a 27-page questionnaire mailed to 1,200 people by the court. Some 447 respondents are on call. 
The questionnaire asked jurors such questions as whether they had ever heard of Noriega, George Bush, Ronald Reagan, Oliver North and other figures whose names will be raised at the trial. They also asked what television programs they watch, whether they can fly a plane and whether they ever visited Panama. 
Lead defense attorney Frank Rubino has said 60 percent or more of the questionnaires had negative comments about his client. Sullivan said a review of the questionnaires "only makes me think we're going to have even more difficulty than I thought" seating an impartial panel. 
Noriega, wearing four-star epaulets on each shoulder of his brown, short-sleeved military uniform, sat at the defense table during jury selection, talking animatedly with his lawyers and poring over the juror list. 
Behind him in the first row of the gallery sat his wife, Felici­dad, and his three daughters, who received special visas to attend the trial. 
Noriega is charged with turning Panama into a way sta­tion for Colombia's Medellin cartel to process and ship drugs to the United States. He allegedlv took at least $10 mil­to the ·united States. He allegedly took at least $10 mil­lion in bribes to protect cartel operations as they shipped tons of cocaine by boat and plane. 


, Viewpoint 
Friday, September 6, 1991 page 11 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board EdHor-ln.Chlef Kelley Tuthill Men11glng Editor 81181~ Manager lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez Newe Edhor ..•.........•..••...•.. Monica Yant Advertlelng Manager ••..•.Julie Sheridan Vl-polnl EdHor ...•...........•. .Joe Moody Ad O..lgn Man11ger.••••••• Alissa Murphy Sport• EdHor ••••••••.•..••.David Dieteman Production Manager •••••••.•••.Jay Colucci Accanl EdHor•••.•••••.•••••••...John OBrien Syatema Menager •.•••••.••.•••••Mark Sloan Photo EdHor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....••...•••.••....• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary'a Edhor ............ Emily Willen Controller..................... Thomas Thomas -The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the UniYeraity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectiYely as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of· the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged.  
 

LmERS TO THE EDITOR 

Soviet history predicts the failure of the coup 
Dear Editor: was unable to do this and that paramilitary activity; the Petersburg, refused to give an Russia Is not Latin America. A What was really surprising the army did not want this it country was in the state of civil oath of loyalty to the new czar, man in the chain of command about the communist putch in was too late; Stalin had already and economic chaos as the and that was it. After standing does not have the tradition of Moscow this August was Its obtained his dictatoral powers result of WWI, and a small there for a couple of hours, they being very disciplined and complete failure In less than without any military support. group of devoted fanatics in the left over the ice of Neva River so obedient to his commander. He three days. I am not going to capital appeared to be the only the troops loyal to the new czar is looking not only above, but to repeat all the facl'l that proved Trotski's successor, Frunze, well organized force able to did not have even to aim at his side (to French the almost unbelievable incom­liquidated all possible influence pick up the power that was them when they started to fire. philosophers, to the Communist petence of its leaders-they of Trotski in the army within a laying on the ground. The leader of the uprise, Party, to Yeltsin) also. have been presented already. coup.le of months and died Trubetskoi, did not even show An army that is based on the himself thP. samP year under The m·onar~histic coup just up that day. system of mandatory consrrlp­
Instead, I'd like to point out very suspicious circumstances. before the October Revolution tion is not something that unites that the coup had to fail not Stalin was very cautious, aimed against the republican, The most successful coup in people of more or less similar only because of the Intellectual indeed. non-communist, Provisional the history of Russia happened views and corporate and political weakness of its Government lead by general in 1682. The "strelets" brigade consciousness. So It was not leaders and the strength of the The army was never the Kornilov was very sleepy from managed to invade the Kremlin, correct to think about the Soviet democratic forces, but also be­power base for Stalin. That is the beginning and only official and their demands to nominate Army or the KGB as some cause the Russian tradition why he executed military Soviet historiography has Ivan Alexeyevitch to be the czar independent and monolithic po­does not Include any examples leaders from time to time and exaggerated its significance for and Peter Alexeyevitch to be his litical factor, This was further of active Involvement by the that even in the situation of a purely propagandistic reasons. successor (later he became proven by this latest abortive army In the political matters of deadly danger for the Soviet (At this point the Bolsheviks known as Peter the Great) were -coup. the society that may be consid­military leaders they did not do appeared to be the saviors of met. ered as a necessary precondi­anything-they let themselves Russia from the threat of the And that was it; the leader of Fortunately or unfortunately, tion for any relatively successful to be executed without any restoration of monarchy). that coup, commander we all, on both sides of the At­military coup d'etat. resistance. The last sentence Hovanski, was executed less lantic, have for a long time ex­
shouted by them was .often, The first effort to introduce than a year later, the "strelest" aggerated the threat produced 
Let us take a look at the Rus­"Long live the great Stalin." the republican form of units were dismissed and the by the army and the communist sian and Soviet history of this The main power in the Soviet government, or at least army disappeared from the hardliners in the USSR. As a century. The fear of bolshevls­totalitarian society was not a constitutional monarchy, in political scene again. matter of fact, the latter over­tlc leaders Zlnovjev and military serviceman, but a Russia was made by Russian Of course, what the army has estimated their own potentialKamenev that their own Minis­communist bureaucrat. officers a century before: I managed to do is to threaten power themselves. ter of War, Lev Trotskl, would mean the so-called Decembrist and sometimes even to carry Igor Grazin seize power after Lenin's death Even the October Revolution uprise of 1825. out some assassinations (Czars VJSiting Professor, united them with Stalin. When itself had not been the result of The rebellious troops came to Peter III, Paul). but nothing Law School they discovered that ,Trotskl any significant military or the central square of St. more. September 3, 1991 
Student recommends bringing a video camera to next party 
Dear Editor, and on WSJV and WNDU at­properly using it. throughout the country have to them and actually got footage of 
I am writing In response to tempting to inform people of a The fact that Norval Williams, deal with everyday. Police the police at our parties would what happened over the week­few bad apples in the police the police officer who spoke out abusing their power; and the be used on the news. end at Lafayette Square. A few force. As a result I have been In defence of the arrested minorities having no recourse. local policemen showed their warned to stay away from the students is now in trouble It worked in LA, why not in true colors with a little bit of LA entire city of South Bend for because he told the truth is I have tried to contact the South Bend? So bring a camera style enforcement. I witnessed, fear of police retribution. further proof that something is ACLU and ND student govern­to your parties this weekend first hand, police brutality and wrong and needs to be righted. ment but I feel I have a short and make the South Bend police have tried for the past couple of This Is a sad testimony to the term solution to this problem. TV stars. days to stop this from state of affairs that I should Yet this incident is a simple The reporter from WSJV in­Terence Coyne happening again. have to worry about the police microcosm of what minority formed me that anyone who Off-campus 
I have been in The Observer abusing their power rather than groups both in South Bend and brought a video camera with Sept. 5, 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE Of THE DAY 
Ht'l, A11Kt, 
WH8Rt'5 I '313NT 
?ONKel?? HIMHOM8. 
YaJ'Rt
Nexr. 
' 

Y()(J 5tWTHIM 
HOMP 70Hf3 /1lR&NT5? 
I 

M!Kb, NOBOIJY ACrl..JAIA.-Y, He tuAN75 70 5et/11W PR5!7Y t/Vttf/ITH UPBtATA9aJT 
H/'3 PAR!JN713! IT. \ NOTAT 
ZONK£R.'S 
AGIHI 

'Forget the name. Get on with the game.' 
T-shirts distributed at I.U. 
Submit to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

IU team presentstheir perspective 
t:Sy LORI NICKEL AND 
DANWAWRZYN 
Indiana Dally Student 

H 
oosier fans and football players, 
look forward to 
the first meeting 
between Indiana 
University and Notre Dame in 33 years. But unlike many fans who sense a Notre Dame blowout, the IU players do not seem overly awed by the Irish. 
"They're a good team; we're not going to take that away from them," said junior wide receiver Scott McGowan. "But they also have to respect us and we're not going to back down from them." 
Senior tailback Vaughn Dun­
bar agrees. "I don't think Notre 
Dame is overlooking us, but I 
think they'll tend to not get as 
high up for us as they would a 
Michigan." 

The game will be most 
paramount on the minds of the 
IU players. Since August 16, the 
team has been practicing two 
or three times a day. Now that 
classes have started, they are 
down to one practice a day. 
Senior linebacker Mark Ha­
gen knows how important this 
game is to the team, and some­
times it's not unusual to get 
hyped up all week. 

"As far as I'm concerned, I 
wake up in the morning, during 
football season, go to my 
classes, but once class is over 
for the day the rest of it is 
football," Hagen said. 
. 

"Plus during the day, it's hard 
not to think about it. If we're 
getting ready to play Michigan, 
or a big game, your mind is al­
ways wandering as far as up­
coming football things. It's hard 
to stay focused on school 
sometimes, but that's the rea­
son we're here, is to get an ed­
ucation first. 

"It just comes down to bud­
geting your time and just trying 
to stay focused on one thing, 
like if you're going to class, stay focused on that, and then go to football. But like I said, it's easy for your mind to wander sometimes, especially if you've got a big game coming up." 
Coach Bill Mallory is anxious for the football season to get underway. He said he felt his team worked hard in the pre­season, but there is still much work to bring his squad to its full potential. 
"I'm not going to sit here and kid you and say we are where I'd like to be," Mallory said. "I wasn't that impressed with our scrimmage on Friday, particu­larly with our offense. I felt it wasn't as smooth in executing as I wanted to see. 
"Defensively I think we made some progress. At this point I'm not as pleased as I'd like to be with our football team and it's imperative that we do .some cleaning up." 
Mallory was an assistant to Woody Hayes as Ohio State in 195 7 and 1963 at the same time as Notre Dame's head coach Lou Holtz. Mallory said that Holtz was a friend of his and the two shared rooms on road trips with the Buckeye football team. 
"We've gotten together from time to time," Mallory said. "We've been good friends ever since we met back at Ohio State. I certainly have a great deal of respect for him. His philosophy hasn't changed. 
"We were young coaches, wanting to do a good job and working for a great man and learning a great deal form him. Both of us were ambitious to want to do well in the coaching profession. We wanted to hope­fully someday have the oppor­tunity to be head coaches." 
Mallory will select captains for IU game by game. The cap­tains for IU's first game are Hagen, tackle Randy Schneider and snapper Jon Martin, all se­niors. 
Lori Nickel and Dan Wawrzyn work for the Indiana Daily Student at Indiana University. 

I R 
GAMEINFO 
THE GAME: Indiana (6-5-1 in 1990} at Notre Dame [9-3 in 1990}. 
TIME: 12:35 p.m. local time. 
TV & RADIO: NBC Sports: Dick 
Enberg, Bill Walsh, John Dockery. 
Host Creative Communications will' 
replay the game on syndicated 
SportsChannel regional stations, in­
cluding WNDU-TV South Bend and 
SportsChannel Chicago. Mutual Radio 
,. < Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna}. 
TICKETS: The game is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: NCSW 7th; AP 7th. Indiana: NCSW un­
ranked; AP unranked. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads 22-5­1, and has won five straight, and 19 of20. 
THE LAST TIME: Irish18, Hoosiers D. 
1---------------~--~--~ tions in Eddie Thomas, Scott McGowan and Eddie 
I. 
Sept. 7 
Sept. 14 
Sept. 21 
sept. 28 
5 
'""il'"rseiURIGH'i::'':;;'tf''"':,~I:;,,,:==:=:(s=ti~~:
Oct. 12.: L/ t'l 
Oct.19 < 
Odt. 26=···· .··.. Nov. 2 Nov. Q Nov•. H~'::. ::::::=== 


Sept. 7 at Notre Dai'M / Sept. 21 KENTUCKY Sept. 28 at Missol.irl Oct 5 MICHIGAN STA Oct. 12 .NORTHWESTERN Oct. 19 at Michigan > Oct. 26 at Wisconsin .•, Nov. 2 MINNESOTA < Nov. 9 
'· :~ .~~~ ~at~ \••
Nov. 16 Nov;3o PURDUE <·•·= 

CREDITS 
FOOTBALL '91 Production: Jay Colucci, Kristin Costello, Cristina Ortiz. 
Design: Lisa Eaton, Dave Dieteman, Rolando DeAguiar 
Graphics: Brendan Regan, Ann-Marie Conrado 
Illustrator: Jake Frost 
Photo Tech: John Rock 
'"'·"'Jf:=·=·=·========• down quickly. The Irish should be very successful :::=•===?:====::::::::=.:::=::::(()1\ll:l\ running the ball, especially if Farrall and Hagen ·=::,.:/::=:=:,,,:::;::•:··,<>=:·<='='='='='''''''' are neutralized. Furthermore, the Hoosiers will have trouble IC:Ctjf7\t getting pressure on Mirer when he drops back to 
' 
. 

Baety, but getting the ball to them is another story. Quarterback Trent Green isn't known for his throwing arm, and the Irish secondary could give him fits. 
A diverse Notre Dame offense should be able to overcome the strength of the Indiana defense-the llnebacking corps. Inside linebacker Mark Hagen and outside linebacker Greg FarraH are among the tops in the country at their position, so the Irish need to mix up the run and the pass to keep that pair away from the action. 
The Notre Dame offensive line outsizes the Hoosier defensive line, and with Jerome Bettis and Rodney Culver rushing the ball, that line will wear 
pass, and the junior quarterback will have time to find his receivers. The Indiana secondary is also in transition, with a few new faces on the roster. If that group doesn't play well, Notre Dame will be able to move the ball at will, and that doesn't bode well for Indiana. 
The Irish have a clear advantage on special­teams play. Junior kicker-punter Craig Hentrich has received recognition on several preseason All­American teams, and even without the Rocket, the Irish boast several game-breakers returning kicks in Willie Clark, Clint Johnson and freshman Mike 
Miller (when his hamstring heals). 
While obviously competent athletes, Hoosier kicker Scott Bonnell and punter Jim DiGuilio are simply not up to Hentrich's level. On the other side of the ball, however, the Irish have some concerns. Dunbar does the kick returning and Scott McGowan handles the punt return duties, and both are to be respected. 
Both coaches Lou Holtz and Bill Mallory worked as assistants on the 1968 national champion Ohio State Buckeye squad, but Holtz has to get the edge in the coaching column, having guided the Irish to a national championship (1988) and a runner-up spot (1989). 
For the past 30 years the Irish have had to play Indiana on the Hoosier's terms-namely, the basketball court. This Saturday, Notre Dame will get a shot at Indiana on the gridiron instead of the hardwood-and at Notre Dame Stadium instead of the Hoosier's basketball home, Assembly Hall. 
I S H I 



A Supplement to The Observer 
Friday, September 6, 1991 

RUNNING GAME MAY DECIDE DAY 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 

With the Joss of George "Boo" Williams, the Notre Dame defense has a large hole to fill. And Indiana thinks they have just the way to exploit it. 
Senior tailback Vaughn Dunbar is continuing a recent tradition of fine running backs (Anthony Thompson comes to mind), and the Hoosier's entire offensive line returns from last year's Peach Bowl team to blast holes for him. 
Indiana's ability to establish the ground game may set the tone for afternoon. The Irish linebackers certainly have the ability to stop the run, but if that responsibility falls entirely to the linebackers, the Notre Dame defense will be in for a long day. 
Conversely, if the Irish can effectively shut off the run, Indiana will be in trouble. The Hoosiers have exceptional speed at the wide receiver posi-
Notre Dame's offensive hopes may be closely tied to senior captain Rodney Culver, pictured in action against Stanford. Photo b Andrew McCioske . 
r-------------.;..;.;;.;;.;,;;...,.fooiio;;,;,;;;~~~--~._~ 
/~ JQ~a.ke J~"st 
~ 

Irish Football '91 
Irish stay focused despite many trials and tribulations 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 
For a team that has had to endure so much turmoil since the season-ending 10-9 loss to Colorado in the Orange Bowl, the Notre Dame football team is a remarkably tranquil team. 
Even with the loss of Raghib Ismail, three other All­Americans, and 11 starters total from last year's team, the squad didn't seem to miss a beat in spring practice. 
Since then, two players (Dorsey Levens and B.J. Hawkins) have transferred, Jake Kelchner was readmitted and then dismissed after being charged with driving under the influence, and George "Boo" Williams, the cornerstone of the defensive line, left the team. 
And last weekend, quarter­back Rick Mirer and linebacker Demetrius DuBose were ar­rested for public intoxication and disorderly conduct, Mirer after apparently coming to DuBose's aid. Punter Jim Sexton was also apprehended for an alleged shoplifting incident. 
How these events will affect the team won't be clear for sev­eral weeks, but if the collective attitude of the players after the Blue-Gold game is any indica­tion, the Irish should have clear sailing. 
Seniors Derek Brown and Rodney Culver compared the atmosphere surrounding the squad to the feeling on the 1988 National Championship team. Brown is the only consensus All-American and Mirer is really the only other individual garnering tremendous amounts of media attention. 
Gone are the big names seek­ing individual attention. In are largely unknown, but equally talented players seeking a common goal-the national championship. 
After being a question mark at the beginning of last season, the Irish offense will carry more than its share of the load. Mirer came into his own as a sophomore, and with a year of experience behind him, the ju­nior quarterback will be firmly in control of the offense. In fact, Holtz might even decide to pass a little bit this season. 
If so, the air attack will not lack for targets. Brown was an integral part of the pass offense in the spring scrimmage and senior Tony Smith returns at split end. Lake Dawson is a formidable back-up at split end, and the Clint Johnson-Adrian Jarrell combination has potential at flanker. 
But don't think Notre Dame will junk the running game, especially with the stable of backs that the Irish have to choose from. Jerome Bettis was impressive enough to shift Culver to tailback, meaning the starting backfield will weigh in at a combined 470 pounds. 
Tony Brooks will return for his final year of eligibility, and Willie Clark showed flashes of brilliance in spring practice. Add Reggie Brooks to that mix, and it represents an incredible amount of talent. 
In fact, the only question on offense concerns Mirer's backup. This past spring, it seemed that Kelchner would be readmitted to the University, providing the coaching staff with an easy answer. But an arrest for drunken-driving ended that hope. 
So the number-two spot is still up for grabs. George Poorman was shifted from cornerback to challenge Kevin McDougal. Freshman Paul Failla, an outstanding baseball player, has been impressive in the fall. Throughout the preseason, deciding on a backup for Mirer has been a large concern of the coaching staff. 
On the defensive side of the ball, things could get a little tricky. With the loss of Williams for the year, all three of last year's starters on the defensive line are gone. The only sure bet to start is Bryant Young at right tackle, while the other two spots are up for grabs. 
Since Troy Ridgley was readmitted after summer school, he has been practicing at both nose tackle and at left tackle and should end up start­ing, most likely at nose tackle. Junior Eric Jones, his spleen healed after being lacerated in the 1991 Orange Bowl, has the inside track at left tackle. Jones has bulked up to 245 pounds after weighing in at around 230 pounds the past two years. 
The linebacking corps is as good as any in the country. Demetrius DuBose has gotten votes for second-team All­America, and sophomore Jim Flanigan has the tools to more than make up for the loss of Michael Stonebreaker. 

Devon McDonald is the elder statesman of the outside linebackers, as the only re­turner with more than 15 min­utes of game experience. McDonald will have a chance to live to the expectations that have followed him since he's been at Notre Dame. At the other outside backer, sopho­more Anthony Peterson will bring superb speed to Scott Kowalkowkski's former posi­tion. 
The secondary, spotty at best last season, should once again 
see IRISH/ page 4 


Tony Smith Ray Griggs 
l.\1( SE 

William Pollard 
<f'i ~~dsay Knapp
t. ,~ 

Todd Norman 
FB , :on Taylor Jerome Bettis ,~ Tim Ruddy Ryan Mihalko 
t. il.

\ ~-• ,-c_
~
r
l. ( t. i&. 
TB 
Rodney Culver Willie Clark Tony Brooks 
K 
Craig Hentrich 
p 
Craig Hentrich Jim Sexton 
l. \ ( 
' 
\A\ (I 

Gmw M<G,;,. 
QB l. ( t. i&. Lance Johnson Rick Mirer Paul Failla ' TG
Kevin McDougal ~\1! Mirko Jurkovic George Poorman ~~ Mark Zataveski 
t.a. 
f 
lT 
(J 
Justin Hall 

Jordan Halter 
t.i&. 


FL ' Lake Dawson OLB Adrian Jarrell · TE ) C. Beauchamp Clint Johnson (-Derek _Brown 
( Gregg Farran •f'~ lrv Smith 
t. iL 

Oscar McBride 
J1 
' )OLB 

(Troy Mason 
B. Whittington 
J1 
RT .' 
g"\ Chris McCoy -fl Matt Bomba 
.Ji 1 ~ 

'lLB 
Matt Egenolf John Miller 
J1 

LB

lMark Hagen Chris Holden 
LT 

'J 1 
g"\ Larry McDaniel -f/ H. McConnack 
1 
.Ji~ 
CB 

l 
Mike Middleton Harry Wardlow Willie Graham 
J1 
FS 

l 
Lance Brown Damon Watts 
Chris Merritt 
J1 
' 
) : Sommerall ( Steve Perkins Jay Davis 
J1 
' 
CB 

) M. Richardson ( Jason Orton Jeff Kollat 
J1 
' 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 


Irish Football '91 
Friday, September 6, 1991 

Veteran receiving corps follows in Irish footsteps 


Split end Tony Smith, upended by a Miami defender, returns to lead an experienced group of Notre Dame wideouts. Photo by Dave Short. By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR and sophomore Oscar McBride. Sports Writer "We are at the point now that when we watch film, it's hard to Over the past five years, the tell us apart," said Brown. Notre Dame receiving corps The depth at tight end is have not been the focal point of equaled at wide receiver. Six Lou Holtz's offense. players could see considerable 
That trend will likely continue playing time at receiver this fall. this year. Some lineup shuffling has However, with the depth and been done to make space for talent of this year's receivers, sophomore Lake Dawson, who the Irish will likely be throwing has outgrown his backup role more in 1991 than have past since spring practice. Dawson Holtz squads. will start at flanker against 
"We're still a run-oriented Indiana, while senior Tony team, and we don't want to Smith keeps his familiar spot at change that," said receivers split end. coach Skip Holtz. "But we want Junior Adrian Jarrell and to throw to open up the run." sophomore Clint Johnson had 
The Irish will have plenty of been splitting time at rlanker targets downfield to which Rick until Dawson was moved earlier Mirer can throw. this fall. 
Senior tight end Derek Brown, "They (Johnson and Jarrell) who has started three full didn't lose a job," said receivers seasons in a Notre Dame coach Skip Holtz. "Lake took it." uniform, will terrorize oppo­Dawson, who saw limited ac­
nents once again in 1991. tion last year as a freshman, Brown is almost unanimously hopes to expand his role with picked as a preseason All­the Irish in 1991. American, and possesses the "I have really worked on size, speed and skills necessary reading defenses better and 
to be successful in the NFL. quicker," said Dawson. "Now I 

Ll 
' 
~ 
t. r~ 

FB Todd Walker 'I"~
I" t. (\1! 

Corey Taylor iL
Tobi Kerns

\ ,1!'~ \ <tf 
i -l t. iL QB L l t. iL 
TB Trent Green SE 

S. McGowan Derrick Mays Mike Brown 
~~awn Harper 
Phil Trinter 
LG Todd Smith Jim Hannon 
~ason Mack Rod Carey 

Vaughn Dunbar Chris Dyer Steve Goodnch 
John Paci Carl Harris 


K RT Scott Bonnell R. Schneider Man Prusiecki T. McKinnon
<1 
t.a.f
p FL

Jim DiGuilio Eddie Thomas , Eddie Baety ~~ TE
\1 Rod Coleman L\ l t. iL 
Ross Hales 

The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado Despite his own personal talent, just want to get on the field and Brown is most impressed with show that we are ready." his backups, junior Irv Smith Smith will retain the starting duties he has performed for two 
years with the Irish. In 1990, as a junior, Smith was the second­leading receiver for the Irish, trailing only All-American 
Raghib Ismail. 

'l
OLB I FCB Rod Smith Devon McDonald 
The relievers at wide receiver
lMarvin Robinson 
Oliver Gibson 

promise to be much stronger
Shawn Wooden 

!Germaine Holden 
this year than in past years. Jarrell is a proven performer at flanker, with six receptions in
RT J Jl 
Pi) Eric Jones 

1990, while Johnson's speed
~(Dean Lytle 

and improved hands have earned him kickoff returning
~ ~ 
duties for the Irish. "I am really excited about re­
' 
turning kickoiTs," said Johnson.

SLB -Jeff Burris 
Demetrius DuBose FS 
"There is a torch that has been
lBrian Ratigan J. Covington 
passed along. First Tim Brown
J }'"'"'Goheeo l Chot Holl;""' 
had it, and he passed it to Rocket. Now Rocket has passed 
NT ' j l 
the torch, and I am the one 

~'\ Junior Bryant 
carrying it." 
"'1/ Troy Ridgely 

Johnson has held his torch high since earning the kickoff
.II 1 ~ 
return job. He returned a kick­ofT 96 yards for a touchdown in 
ss 
last spring's Blue-Gold game. 
MLB 

Johnson will also see action at
lGreg Davis LeShane Saddler 

) Jim Flanigan 

flanker, sharing backup duties 
( Pete Bereich 
with Jarrell. 
"-Jeremy Nau 

Backing Smith at split end are juniors William Pollard and Ray 
' J1 
LT J Jt 

Griggs, who both will contribute 
1\ Bryant Young 
'I Peter Rausch 
at the position. 

Receivers coach Holtz is very excited about the upcoming 

~ Bernard Mannelly 

~ ~ 
season. "We would like to get a
BCB 
l 
Tom Carter 

l 
rotation going with Tony OLB Greg Lane (Smith), Pollard, and Griggs at Anthony Peterson Travis Davis 
split end. 

K. McGill "We are very talented at the Nick Smith 
J1 wide receiver position," he said. 
'

J1 
"I feel fortunate to have such a great bunch of guys." 
•, 
... 
-· 

Tho Obso....,r/Brendan Rogan 
I
I 
I 
! 
will be the freshmen to watch for the time being. Once again, the Irish schedule 
I Irish 
will worK against them. Home 
continued from page 2 

dates include tomorrow's 
matchup with Indiana, as well be a strong point of the Irish as contests against Michigan defense. Rod Smith and Tom State and Tennessee, while Carter will man the corner away dates include Michigan, spots, while Greg Davis and Jeff Penn State and Hawaii. Burris will take care of the The prospects for the season safety spots. With a year of ex­go like this: if the Irish can perience behind them, the sec­escape their first three games ondary will be vastly improved. undefeated and relatively 
Unfortunately for Notre healthy, they have a stretch of Dame, the two freshmen who games against decidedly less were expected to get the most talented clubs. That stretch will playing time are both injured give Notre Dame time to jell as and most likely will not play a team and develop the chem­early in the year. Both Huntley istry necessary for a national Bakich, a linebacker, and Mike championship. Miller, a wide receiver and des­Even if the Irish slip on a ignated heir-apparent to the couple of occasions, this team Rocket, need time to heal before will still be an excellent group, they can be expected to capable of competing with any contribute. team in the nation, and most 

Instead, it seems that Failla likely will be playing on New and linebacker Justin Goheen Year's Day. 
Indiana must battle with history as well as Irish 
By ANTHONY KING Indiana 522-139 over the Assistant Sports Editor series. During the span of 1908 to 
When the Hoosiers of 1949, the Irish ran off 14 Indiana enter Notre Dame straight wins over Indiana. Stadium Saturday, they will be Notre Dame National going against a tough Notre Championship teams in 1919, 
Dame team, and long history '20, '27, '29, '30 and '49 all 
of defeats. recorded victories over the 
It will be the first time since Hoosiers. Participating in 1958 that the Hoosiers have these frays were Irish squared off against the Irish. standouts George Gipp in the The last "battle for Indiana," 1919 and 1920 games, and waged at Rockne Stadium, coach-to-be Frank Leahy on 
-
ended in a 18-0 victory for the 1929 team. Notre Dame. In that game, the Notre Dame Stadium has underdog Hoosiers kept in the not been kind to Indiana, as game, until the Irish scored they have gone 0-8 in games two touchdowns in the last played there. NQtre Dame has seven minutes to pull out a won the last five games of the victory. series, all of which were held 
The series began in 1898, at at Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame, as Indiana was The Irish hope to continue one of the six schools that the the tradition this Saturday, as Irish faced that year. The Irish they face a hungry Hoosier lost that game 11-5, but it team that will be looking for would be one of the few the upset. Indiana managed a games that the Irish would mediocre 6-5-1 record last lose during the 28 game season, but with 17 returning series between the two starters, the Hoosiers should schools. be an improved team. 
The Irish would go on to rack up an impressive 22-5-1 The Irish, looking to start record against the Hoosiers. out strong in their bid for the Notre Dame has shut down national championship, hope the Hoosiers often in the to follow in the footsteps of series, recording an Rockne, Leahy, and the impressive 11 shutouts. In Gipper, by beating Indiana fact, the Irish have outscored and going on to win it all. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 
Irish Football '91 
Friday, September 6, 1991 
Florida State 
.
re1gns supreme in NCSW poll 
By NIKKI WELLMANN Sports Writer 
Editor's Note-This poll was taken before USC's Monday night loss to Memphis State. 
Florida State captured the pole position in this year's first National Collegiate Sports­writers' Poll conducted Monday evening. 
The Seminoles accumulated 22 first-place votes and 667 points after crushing Brigham 
Young 44-28 in their season 
····', '··· Sept. 14 vii.lSU opener. Florida State edged out ..•soipl:7 vii. Brigham Young · .' s.,x. 1 ...._ Arilona
idle Michigan, which finished 
,... ·. ,., , , .··s&p~. 7 at UCLA

with 610 points. 27 schools participated in this week's poll. 
Miami settled into third place with 583 points after its solid 38-3 victory over Arkansas, while Penn State's performance against Georgia Tech-a sea­son-opening 34-22 victory-earned it the fourth position with 559 points. 
Notre Dame was the seventh in two weeks. 

Notre Dame will face two of the top five teams (Michigan and Penn State) and five of the top 20 teams in the poll. 
best team in the country ac­cording to the pollsters. The 505 points the Irish received put them close behind fifth­ranked Washington and sixth­ranked Florida. 
Also in action last weekend, ninth-ranked Houston thrashed 
HOOSIERS TO WATCH 


Vaughn Dunbar 

Arter an 0-11 record in his A powerful back wnose tal­
first season, Bill Mallory has ents promise to give the Irish 
directed Indiana to a 37-31-2 fits, Dunbar was named to the 
record, which includes four 
Second Team All-Big Ten in 
winning seasons and four bowl 1990. The 6-0, 207 senior from 
appearances in five years. 
Fort Wayne led the Hoosiers in 
Mallory's accomplishments are 
scoring last season with 7 8 
indeed exceptional, especially 
points, and his 13 touchdowns after a century of Hoosier rank third on the Indiana all­
football with only 27 winning 
time list. 
seasons. 

Greg Farran 

The 6-2, 235 outside linebacker from Springfield, Ohio, registered 43 solo tackles last season, in addition to lead­ing the team (for the second consecutive season) with nine tackles for losses. FarraH's punishing hits and notable speed is of significant concern to the Notre Dame offense. 
Each week The Observer 
sports staff, AI Lesar of the 

.. 
South Bend Tribune and some 
well-known figure in the Notre 
Dame-Saint Mary's community 
predict the outcomes of the 








week's major college football Dave Dleteman Rene Ferran Rich Kurz Lisa Eaton AI Lesar

Dave McMahon Anthony King games. Records are compiled Sports Editor Associate Associate Guest South Bend
Associate Assistantas to how each person does Sports Editor Sports Editor Prognosticator Tribune
Sports Editor Sports Editor against the spread. 
·-Seminoles Seminoles
Seminoles SeminolesFla. St. 40.5 over TULANE Green Wave. Seminoles Seminoles Eagles WolverinesWolverines WolverinesMichigan 24 over B.C. . Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Nittany Lions Nittany LionsPENN ST. 26.5 over Clncy Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Bearcats Nittany Lions Huskies HuskiesWash. 7.5 over STANFORD Hawkeyes Cardinal Huskies Cardinal Huskies Horns BulldogsTexas 8.5 over MISS. STATE Horns Horns Horns Horns Horns Buffaloes Buffaloes
COLO. 23 over Wyoming Buffaloes Buffaloes Cowboys Cowboys Buffaloes IOWA 16 over Hawaii Rainbows Rainbows Hawkeyes Hawkeyes
Hawkeyes Hawkeyes Hawkeyes
~­
ALABAMA 17.5 over Temple Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide
Owls Owls Owls 
UCLA 5.5 over Brig. Young Cougars Bruins Cougars Cougars
Cougars Bruins Bruins 
OHIO STATE 8 over Arizona Buckeyes Buckeyes Wildcats Buckeyes
Buckeyes Buckeyes Buckeyes
SYRACUSE 23 over Vandblt. Orangemen Commodores
Commodores CommodoresOrangemen Orangemen Orangemen
PITT 6 over Southern Miss. Golden Eagles Panthers
Panthers PanthersPanthers Panthers Panthers
GEORGIA 5.5 over Louis. St. Cougars Bulldogs
Ducks CougarsDucks Cougars Ducks
OREGON 8.5 over Wash. St. Bulldogs Tigers Tigers Cougars
Bulldogs Bulldogs BulldogsNOTRE DAME 18 over I.U. 
Irish Irish Irish HoosiersIrish Hoosiers Hoosiers 
' 
t 

Friday, September 6, 1991 

Confessions of an IU student 

By BRIDGET ZAPPA 
Accent Writer 
A 
hhh! Can you smell It? It's fall on the campus of Notre Dame which means only one thing: football is in the air! The smells of barbecue grills, the fresh air of the Midwest, the exhaust of invading automobiles, and the ever-present wafting of beer through parking lots. 
Much about this home foot­ball weekend will coincide with those experienced by countless ND faithful In the memorable seasons past, except for one thing: the visiting team. 
Not an uncommon competitor to Notre Dame sports teams, especially basketball, Indiana University will brave the fans and the intimidation of our football squad on Saturday. 
There will be many IU fans resting their back sides on the stands of the Notre Dame Sta­dium who will in fact be sup­porting their team with loyal -cheering. Still, not all IU stu­dents will be garnished in red -a small group will proudly display the blue and gold of the Fighting Irish. 
These daring students are among graduate students at­tending the IV Medical School Center located in Haggar Hall here on the Notre Dame cam­pus. One first-year med-student in particular, Mike Yergler, has no problem showing his enthu­siasm for the opening game and for his team, Notre Dame. 
Yergler came to Notre Dame as part of the Indiana Univer­sity-sponsored South Bend Cen­ter for Medical Education. The program ·was established to provide a satellite school for first and second year students branching off from the IU's main medical school. 
Though technically an IU stu­dent, Yergler Is no stranger to the tradition of Notre Dame football. As a youngster grow­ing up in South Bend, he was privileged enough to have at­tended many a home game since his father has been the head of sports medicine, or the team doctor, for many years. 
As a young male of 22 years, Yergler enjoys a rigorous and well-played game of football. So, it is no surprise that Notre Dame football has always been one of his loves. 
Since these IV students study on the ND campus, they are considered ND graduate stu­dents. Therefore, they pur­chased their tickets along with all other ND grad students. 
Yergler and his entourage were at the ticket window by 
7:30 on the morning of their designated day last Saturday. 
"We have terrible seats by the way," said Yergler, though. his enthusiasm and charisma is not one bit dampened by that fact. 
This will be his first game in the student section, which he expects to be a riveting experi­
ence. 
"Notre Dame by 21," predicts 
the loyal fan. "It might be close 
in the first half, but NO is too 
strong of a team." 
Yergler is also familiar with ND football from his under­graduate days at Purdue Uni­versity. "Notre Dame crushed the Boilers four years in a row. Now at least IU will get some of the same! I have no loyalty to IU what so ever at this time, especially after attending Pur­due. I grew to dislike IU." 
The unique situation of these 
medical students might seem 
rather close to a betrayal of 
their own institution. However, 
as Yergler stated, "we're kind of 
in a weird situation." 
All of these students attended 
different undergraduate institu­
tions, but began their medical 
education at Notre Dame, not 
IV. Although the program is run through IU, it is based on this campus -the students have yet to actually go to IU. This fact greatly helps to explain the dearth of IU loyalty. 
So, yes there will be IU fans and students at Saturday's game, but there will be many more ND lunatics ranting and raving. Yergler will be counted among them. 
When asked what he plans to do in preparation for kick-off, Yergler replied like a typical Domer, "Basically, tailgate." 
Go Irish! 
• 
r 


page 14 The Observer Friday, September 6, 1991 
Rejecting Medjugorje as God's little acre 
classical form of "protest 
As a senior priest, I haven't 
atheism." made up my mind· whether In the de-divinized world of there is a credibility gap that Father Robert Griffin the atheist, says Moltmann, lit­exists between the young erature varies the images of Catholics and old Catholics at Letters to a Lonely God God as deceiver, executioner, Suffering may be unavoidable; 
Notre Dame, or whether we all sadist, despot, player, director but shouldn't there be more to believe passionately (more or of a marionette theater-"or suffering than the idea that less) in Christ, though in differ­the fires of the Spanish Inquisi­you to convince me, what would it introduces the images of the God wants to punish us? To ent ways. tion. I do with the Catholic faith I sleeping, erring, bored, helpless believe that He allows pain to For me, He's important as Yet I would never knowingly have? I couldn't take God seri­and clownish God ... for there is overtake us, which He shares in the Word made flesh; for you, and willingly laugh at or belittle ously, if I felt He'd allowed His something that the atheist as a partner, is more en­He may be important as the the religious faith of a student. own divine revelation to to be fears ... That is the indifference lightened than to believe He Liberator who sets the captives When asked, "Do you believe in derailed by a sideshow." of God ... " sends the wars, holocausts, and free. I love Him for the Medjugorje?" I resist the temp­Believers as diverse as the Does God forgive man for his famines because we have 
Eucharist; perhaps you love tation to giggle or slap my colors of the rainbow have sur­offences against divinity? Reli­strayed from Him. Him for the social gospel. I'm knee, for I anticipate being led vived the recent wars, geno­gion wouldn't be very helpful, if Didn't Jesus pray, "Father, comforted by His presence in onto holy ground. cides, famines, holocausts, we couldn't count on God's for­forgive them, for they know not the Mass; perhaps in your life, I don't have the power to earthquakes and other disas­giveness. what they do?" Where is the He's the blue-eyed "Man for furnish the student with the gift ters, as well as the death-of­Should man forgive God for mercy which negates the divine others" whom you find inspir­of faith. Why should I be mean­God theology all these horrors His offenses against the human indifference which Moltmann ing every time you read Mark. minded about whatever faith led to. Has religion now become race? The Jewish rabbis -says the atheists fear so much? 
Poaching is allowed, of the student has? and end-of-the-millennium some of them at least -have Chesterton mentions a story course, on whatever turf either Years ago, I used to hang out game that God's mother is dared to ask the question which he once beard in Donegal. It one of us finds Him, which in Times Square on summer playing with children? to Christians can seem like a tells of a beautiful peasant means that for me also, He is nights, singing "Amazing Medjugorje is undoubtedly an blasphemy. woman seen carrying a child. the Liberator and "Man for Grace" with the Jesus-freaks uplifting place to visit; but so is I'm not a theologian; but that Asked who she was, she replied, others," though I don't find gathered in front of Father Disneyland; and on a higher doesn't prevent me from believ­"I am the Mother. of God, and those titles endearing. Duffy's statue. plain, so is Jimmy Swaggart's ing that God is love. Doesn't this is Himself, and He's the Diversny makes the Church, A bell-bottomed preacher by summer camp meeting, because Christian theology teach that boy you'll all be wanting in the 
top heavy with dogmas, a the name of Arthur Blessit used lovely Christian people go there the One who is capable of love end. many-splendored thing; and for to work hard, offering salva­to meet one another, bringing is also capable of suffering? Compared to Donegal, does the Church to stay in business tion to the street people. If with them the kind of faith that A God who cannot suffer is not Medjugorje suffer from 
as part of the human comedy, it Arthur Blessit's version of moves mountains. poorer than any man, says overkill? Incidentally, the must be improvisational, like Amazing Grace could save the Do pilgrims see the sun dance Moltmann. Doesn't revelation prophecies of Fatima also con­the theater of the absurd. dropouts from ruin, why would at Medjugorje? I wouldn't be the say that the Christ, Who tain overkill. That's why the 
Orthodoxy should never be I have wanted to rain on that surprised. But the sun's doing a loves us, suffers with us and famous letter, written by one of worn like a chip on one's preacher's parade? sundance at high noon doesn't for us? This Is the answer the visionaries at Fatima, was prove that Our Lady has Alyosha Karamazov gives Ivan, 
shoulder; for doesn't Malt do This summer in London's never released. 
Soho Square, I met a couple touched earth in the neighbor­incensed by t.he fate that befalls Medjugorje is not unimpor­more than Milton can to justify Scotland, who hood, any more than mysteri­children. a phenomenon
God's ways to man? from tried to tant, since it's 
convince me of Medjugorje as ous circles left in a field prove When you consider the mes­which shows that the hungry For all we know, the unfor­heaven's half-acre. that starships have been arriv­sages delivered by the Latter­sheep are not being spiritually 
givable sin may be the unwill­The woman kept saying she'd ing from outer space. day visionaries, you find that fed. ingness to laugh at human folly like to go to Medjugorje to stay, Dostoevski's Ivan Karama­Mary comes into our world as a I have not written this as an and its consequences. "It only without ever being sent for. The zov, outraged over the suffering prophet of gloom and doom; attack on the faith and good hurts when I laugh," said the man insisted over and over that and death of children, refused for doesn't she threaten the will of young Catholics believing man being burned at the stake. Our Lady pops In there daily as to accept the world that God chastisement of sinners? in Medjugorje, but to save stu­Such laughter, engaged in per­a tourist attraction. has made. Moltmann, a German One remembers the children, dents from feeling guilt for not severingly, could have put out I finally said, "If I allowed Protestant, calls this the as Ivan Karamazov or Camus climbing on the bandwagon . 
• 
AT YOUR 
INCLUDES
\. \ \ \ \ ( ( I 
j. 


......_
-
-
-
-
"'! 

"UNFORGETIABLE"
COLLEGE 
(A DUET WITH HER FATHER) 
-

$1.00 OFF 
ANY REG PRICE 
BOOKSTORE 
CASSETTE $2.00 OFF 
GOOD THRU SEPT II
ANY REG PRICE CD 
"on the campus"
'//11 II I \\\ \.\.~ 


----~-------------------~ 
Friday, September 6, 1991 The Observer page 15 
The Obaarver acoepta dusMiada avery bualnan day from 10 Lm. to 3:30 p.m. at the Noire Dame ottlce, 314 LaFonuna and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. 1113011 H~ Colege Canter. Deadline IOf next·day d•dladl Is 3p.m. All cltllaHieda muat be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge Is 2 cants par character par day, lndudlng all apacaa. 
HOUSE FOR RENT Need GAs -6 USC & 2 MSU Jell 21U GAs FOR SALE I need one G.A. lor the I.U. game. $$$$ 802 Napoleon:one block from x3301 259-6956 Please call Mindy at Need GA's to all home games. campus. Full kitchen & bath, 271-7188. washer/dryer. Grad students NEED TENNGA'S I need 4 Tenn. stud tix. 25% off list price only. Rent negotiable. CAll MICHELLE Will beat any price, football ticket book for sale. 
I PERSONAL 


10-5:30 everyday Call289-7114, after 7 pm. 284-5115 TRY ME II call x3953. 
have extra Purdue tix.

Pandora's Books corner of ND Call: 259-6956 Call Tom x1563 
ave & Howard 4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, Need TWO INDIANA GAs. I DESPERATELY NEED TWO Pm washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119 Call lynn at x4940. 2 student ticket books, adjacent GA'S AND TWO GA'S FOR ANY Happy binhday Joe Robens. 
Don't miss Chicago's favorite N. St. Peter. 233-9947. seats, for season. 277-6635, leave OTHER GAME. PLEASE CALL ME Irish rockers...THE DROVERS. NEEDED: 2 Tenn. tix. Angela message AT 3293. Will PAY II ATIENTION: STUDENTS! 
live In concen...Thurs.. B & B available near ND on football x2796 $5.50 HAIRCUTS 
Sept. 12 in Theodore's. Tix weekends. 271-0989. HELPII TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS only $5.00 In advance at Needed: 4 G.A.s for Mich. St. Need 2 GA's for Mich. St.ll Call RANDY 800-323-7687 VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
LaFortune Box Office. House for rent, one block from ND, Call David at 277-7767 Chris x2441 or Sarah x4830 1523LINCOLNWAY WEST 
professors, stall, ()(graduates, 650 NEED MICHIGAN STATE AND 233-4767 
Crazy about the Earth and Kids1 month, 234-1714 Need 2 Indiana GA's. Will pay NEED PITIGA'S Walk ins 
Our Kids lor Savino Earth club, big bucksllll Call Bill #3718. 2 Mich St. GA's CAll X2532 "Earth Crusaders," Student rentals now available. Ideal x1655 Rory AUDITIONSIII AUDITIONSIII 
is looking lor weekend camp lor graduate students with family. I need 1 Mich St GA Desperately need 2 GA's to Pin or The london Program's counselors and guitar players. Cal\232-5411 or 234-0379. Call Bill x4274 Essential: Many IU tickets USC. Please call lisa at x1265. 
"A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM' 

Tent camp()( stay in heated lodges. x4304 Needed: crazy fun-A quaint efficiency in lovely old #@%·1-$ Need Indiana GA tix: If I dont get your extra Mich. St. GA, 
September 10 6:30-9:00 

loving, responsible male and mansion near N. D. 225/mo. plus steve@2447 NEEDED: 2 GAs lor NAVY game I won't get ANY for a long time. 
September 11 6:30-9:00 

female leaders. Give us a jingle! deposit call 2879624 Call Eileen at x4965 Please help mel in THEODORE'S 
Contact Bill, 7pm-11prn at 272-NEED 2 GA'S TO All HOME x-3591 4850. Three and lour bedroom homes lor GAMES, ESPECIALLY INDIANA NEED 2-3 MSU GAs •
Any questions, time conflicts, 

rent. Walking distance to Notre CAll GREG AT x2092 #4189 STEVE TRADE 2 TENN/2 Pm GA Call Kris x1295 
TYPING AVAILABLE Dame. FOR 2 USC GA X4045 287-4082 232-5411 ()( 234-Q379. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE $$$NEEDED-Pm GA'S$$$ IU GAs? I still need many. Call
Please help me out. Call D. J. NEEDED: TENN. GAs Monica at 283-4098.
$$$SEll ME YOUR MICHIGAN x1027 WILL TRADE $$, PITT GAS, STATE TICKETS. $$$ PENN ST. (away) GAs ­FLOUNDERI
LOST/FOUND IIL-.._F'""":"""O_R_S_AL_E__, 
I HAVE 2 IND GA's OR A COMBINATION OF THE FLOUNDERI
I would like to buy 2 GA's please call John at 2282 or THREE I lost Over the Holiday Weekend: FLOUNDERI
leave message and an offer. Call Manatx2318. 
Group of Keys.Ptease Call: NICE FAMILY HOME, 4 BDRMS., FLOUNDERI
Call Julie at x1342 

239-5242 2-1/2 BATHS, FINISHED FLOUNDERI
NEED 4 USC GA'S -CALL PATII, NEED: 1 MICH ST GA. Will tredeBASEMENT. POOL & GAZEBO, 
Will trade 2 TENN. GA tix X4937 for stud. tix ()( cash CHAD 1205
SAUNA, LOTS OF PRIVACY ON If you happen to see Patty G.
lor 2 MICH. ST. GA. x1323.
LARGE LOT.'$129,900. CALL272-sometime today, be sure to tell her
NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX. Need
4109. that she is cool.
Mich State Stud Tickets Please help east coast double 2USC 
Any responses, Patty?
HELP 

Wanted-Will Buy or Trade domer bring his family to an Irish 6 Pin 
I lost my lootball tickets inbetween metal desk $40,swivel tilt office 
Call Steve, 277-4749 victory. Call Sam at GAs 
Nonh Dinino Hall and Sorin!Walsh chairs $35,oak chairs $15,couch Rich,
(201) 334-3804. x2204 
Halls. The seat information is $20,rocking chairs,lamps,kitchen I had a great time at the Olive
Sale:STD TIXS all homegame.Call
Section 31, row 49, seat 29. large glassware,etc. cell217-0374 or visit Garden. We'll hit Macri's later.
283-3932 Have 2 Pitt GA's trade lor MSU
18221 Dunn Rd.,n. side of Campus Thanks f()( my first personal. I amREWARDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. GA's. 717-757-1934.
View, 5pm-7pm now the envy of all my frosh friends.
I NEED 3 TIX FOR PITI GAME. GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR 
keep them coming

X 1684 PURCHASE. CAll COLLECT 1-Need Tenn. GA tix. Willing to
MacGregor Tour golf dubs, Patty
612-227-7577. trade a# of Pin()( Navy tix or pay.
induding bag, can, and balls. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Scott x1763. 
Found: One large grey garment Excellent condition. $190. 233-Nigo's In the House,
WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND bag. Scu fled, scratched, and 9094. 
Rock the Housel

Need I.U. and all other tickets HOME FOOTBAll GAME. CAll NAVY, NAVY, NAVYIll skanky but still intact! 
COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON. We need all the NAVY GA's we can Conlenls include dresses, 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill Native offers 
call Bill@ X1747 get. Will trade 2 Pin GA's and pay
shoes, jackets, and lacy sexy T-Shirts, Sw~tshirts, closeout. T­X4100 Spanish classes
NOTRE DAME cash. Call Don()( Eart brasI Call 3270 or 32791o 
Shirts $7. Sweatshins. $12. Phone Beatriz , 272 9713
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ TICKETS WANTEDGame Day Promotions 291-6394.
identify. 271-1371 I need 1 IU ticket Rob x41 00 I NEED GA'S FOR All HOME 
LOST: set ol keys on a carabiner in 2 One-way tickets from SB to Philly. HEY DOOBIE
AND AWAY GAMESII NOTRE DAME TICKETS NEED TENN TIXS-STUD OR GA'S 
LOVE, PEPor around Cushing or O'Shag. last leave Nov. 14,$125 ea. Call287-FOR SALE. CAll MOE -3402 ­lridav.Reward offered, Call Chris at CALL JOE CAll271-1371.

967fl x4010 illound. X1762 PLEASE BUY MY STUDENT XMAS IN SEPTEMBERIII
Computer:10MHz Need G.A.s for Indiana and FOOTBALL TICKET BOOKIll "santa daus is coming to town...•XT,30megHD,5.25" floppy,640K,flat 
I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY Michigan St. Money no object. Call x3710 
signed,WANTED mono monitor,101 ext keybrd,WP5, CAll TOM Ron x2157 Santa's BIG RED helpers

123,1ike new, $490. Diamond eng. ••NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA Tlx••
X1762

ring, .42kt round, pd $880 in '86,
WANTED: NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pitt Will PAY GOOD$$$ SWEET-UMSasking $650. Sofa,desk,chair, $5-·
Female singer looking !()( musicians NEEDMSUTIX game. Parents will pay well I Call CAll BART 271-0759 Thanx for supporting me
30. Call232-9952.
to start an alternative rock band. II Angie x2172 Tim@X4063 ANYTIME on Wed. It meant a loti look 
interested, call Jen Adams at 271-forward to seeing your sweetr1es1 1497. Used Computers: NEED 2 IU GA'S I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME Std. season ticket book lor 
every time.
Mac Plu512ddipr 

GAME I CALL MIKE 1655 sale. 273-9274 
CAll TOM I'm glad you're back. Don't everApple llgs w!Works
My lamily has disowned me-x3242 leave me again I Help me get back in their good Laptop 386 w/hd NEED GAs for Mich. St., U.S.C., I have 2 Indiana GA.'s. and need 1 Luv,l.b.Man (x1778) or John (277-2176)
graces. Please sell me a few GA's NEED Tennessee GA's badly for Navy, & Tenn. Call Tony at Mich. State G.A. Call Chuck x1637 lor USC. Karen x3978 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.
folks Call Scottx3898 277-6048. FB TICKET BOOK Good rates. Save Money. Call meHAWAII FOR THANKSGIVING I 
•• I will PAY BIG $$$for: •• NEED M.ST. TIX FOR ~LEII 
f()( a quote 9:30-6:00, Plane ticket for sale; Nov. 25-Dec.

HOUSE CLEANING POSITION •• 2 UM, 4 Navy, 4 Tenn •• NEED PITT TIX X2906 289-1993. Office near campus.
2: $430 value. Call Kathleen at
AVAILABLE Ill! Dave 256-5034 •• 213-470-4419 
x2985

Earn huge sums of money! This Lv. Mssg. $$ I need 2 Michigan St. GA's Nigo Fest '91 position pays $5.00/hourl HelpIll Dan x1835 Sept. 7th
CD PLAYER. SONY CDP-570
Work involves deaning a USC GA's WANTED Ill Be Cool, Be There!
like new. High quality. Price
2 1/2 room suite on the first flO()( of My parents are coming out to Dad's dying to see ND play Help I Dillon Hall, Room 162. negotiable. x1116 celebrate my 21st birthday on before I graduate. My family has their plane For more information, call Joe at Saturday the 21st. They need 2 PLEASE CAll x4227 ATIENTION ROCKERSIII
tickets, now I need 3 GA's for ND MOM selling 6' formica topped 
• Michigan Statal 

X1644. MSU GA's. Otherwise it won't be a The record you've been waiting f()(
picnic table, 2foam padded 
PlEASEIll need just one student()( Call Tamara at 4768.
golden birthday. is finally here I benches, two sofas, 2 brtided rugs, 
G.A. ticket to the Michigan State 
$350.00/ DAY Processing CHISEL: "Swamp Fox/Spike" 
fan, ping pong table, telephones. 
Call Julie at x1342 game. Call Amy x1347. Need 2 MSU GAs & 6 Pin GAs. Call Call272-5640.
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CAll and "listen" 
x4282.

YOU. NO EXPERIENCE The new 7-inch on Assembly NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242 Will trade 4 great Mich St. Records.ATIENTION: BANDS 1111 
MUST HAVE IU GA"SI Call Steve G.A.'s for 4 USC GA's. #1752 STD SEASON TIX 4 SALE 
Quality PA system 4-sale CAll 232-1 094
x2366 Available from John "E." Dugan andVERY REASONABLE II
Fraternities, sor()(ities, campus NeEKI 6 MSU GA's. Mike x1630 Chris "Dude" Infante for $3.
Call John x1109 or Geoff x1064
organizations, highly motivated I have $$$$$ for your Mich St NEED 4 Mich St. GA.'s Or call the Chisel Rokkline at 288­individuals-Travel GAsI Call Kirstin at 4279 or WANTED Rob x4352 9334.
Never Opened I 

4208. 6 Michigan State GA's Sonic the Hedgehog for Sega 284-5105 Need a ride to teh Twin Cities­If you're too broke to alford the
Genesis. Call & make offer SEPT. 20-22-Will split gas $
Need 1 or 2 GA or STUD IU TIX. record, listen to Chisel on WVFIBob 287-3587 
Call277-2124 I need I.U. G.A. tickets II Please call 284-4403 
AM640. plus eam up to + 
Jessica at 48181111 selling SPRING BREAK trips to 
NEED: 4 GA's f()( IU game. Will pay HAVE TENN. GA'S THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE••• I HAVE 2 IND GA'S ••• NEED MICH. ST. GA'S
Cancun• South Padre Island• big $$$111 Call X1076 lessons and information Bahamas/Cruises• Acapulco: 288-4919
Will TRADE FOR MICH ST GA'S LIBBY X4868 OR 4870 
1-800-258-9191 NEEDED: 7 IU tix. Call Ann x2808 CAll#4036 Alumni 
2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO. I seek 2 MSU GAs. Please help NEED TICKETS? 289-7920. Alumni •• WINDOW POSTERS •• Alumni
WALK TO CAMPUS. CAll PAUL fulfill a dream. Carol x4942. Put them in your WINDOW, DESPERATELY NEEDEDI$1$1 Alumni
287-2159. 1 TICKET NEEDED FOR NOT on your WALL! INDIANA GAME. CAll Need 2 GA's for Tennessee Show that the IRISH
1need 2 GA tickets to the ALUM NEEDS USC GAs. Please COLLEEN AT 4244. Will Pay: Bill #2157 Pin Game. NAME YOUR PRICE Ill call John at 283-3660 if you can 
Will WIN OVER Alll Call Mike: 272-0484 help out.
VCR, TV Rentals: Alumni

Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters Need 9 USC tix GO IRISH Ill only $99.95. DESPERATELY NEED 2 TENN Anythingll x2735 Need 3-4 GAs to any home football Alumni •• WINDOW POSTERS .. 
... 
game. Call 283-281;3. Alumni
13" color TV, two semesters only GA'S BIG BUCKS Alumni
$69.95. JEN 284-5036 As of 8:05 pm yesterday TUNA VCR. two semesters, $99.95. SEASON TIX FOR SALE. is oflically older than the 
NEEDED 1 GA TO THE INDIANA 1 Season Stu. Tix FOR SALE, 272­
For fast free delivery, call HELP-NEED 2 GA'S TO ANY CAll (219) 931-0772 trash FINAllY GAME. Call Sheila X4842. 7034 before IU ftbl game
COLLEGIATE RENTALS HOME GAME 272-5959. Will PAY BIG BUCKS I need 2 Pin GAs 284-4403 Please Call Mike at x1688 Need Mich St. and USC GAs I need 4 MSU GA's COME SEE call Phil at x2096 Call John at x2334
STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO THE DOORS ND. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. I NEED 2 IU TIX BADLY Desperately need 1 Indiana GA or FRIDAY AND SATURDAY Need Tenn Tix Need Tenn. GAs for Desen
CAll Blll-4186 stud ticket. Call Kate @ 4225 3stud Storm Vets. Call Keith 2326
Utilities paid. Call255-9664. CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
7:30 AND 10:30 P.M. 

2GA I am the lizard King and I can do
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Football Tickets F()( Selellll I NEED IU TICKETS IN A BAD $2.00 ADMISSION Call4233. WAY -PIERRE X4798 Zeke 283-1786 anything.
219-291-7153 
• 


------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Friday, September 6. 1991
r 
AL STANDINGS NL STANDINGS COLLEGE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE NFL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE Thureclay, Sept. 5 AMERICAN CONFERENCE Eaat Dlvlalon Eaat Dlvlelon Tennessee (0-0) at Louisville (0-0), Night Eaat w L ·Pet. GB w L Pet. GB w L T Pet. PF PA Toronto 76 60 .559 Pmsburgh 80 52 .606 Friday, Sept. 6 Buffalo 1 0 0 1.000 
35 31 Detron 71 63 .530 4 St. Louis 71 62 .534 9112 Bucknell (0-0) at Hofstra (0-0), Night New England! 0 0 1 .000 16 7 Boston 69 64 .519 5112 Chicago 66 67 .496 14 112 N.Y. Jets 1 0 0 1.000 16 13 Milwaukee 65 66 .469 9112 NewYork 65 68 .489 15 112 Saturday, Sept. 7 Indianapolis 0 1 0 .000 7 
16 New York 60 72 .455 14 Philadelphia 64 69 .481 18 112 EAST Miami 0 1 0 .000 31 35 Bahlmore 54 79 .406 20112 Montreal 55 77 .417 25 Michigan (0-0) at Boston College (0-1) Central Cleveland 44 89 .331 30112 Weat Dlvlelon William & Mary (0-0) at Boston U. (0-0) Houston 1 0 0 1.000 47 17 Weet Dlvlelon w L Pet. GB Northeastern (0-0) at Colgate (0-0) Pittsburgh 1 0 0 1.000 26 20w L Pet. GB Los Angeles 74 59 .556 Furman (0-0) at Connecticut (0-0) Cincinnati 0 1 0 .000 14 45Minnesota 80 54 .597 Atlanta 73 60 .549 1 Villanova (0-0) at Maine (0-0) Cleveland 0 1 0 .000 14 26 Chicago 73 62 .541 7112 San Diego 67 68 .496 8 Delaware (1-0) at Massachusetts (0-0) Weal Oakland 72 63 .533 B 112 Cincinnati 66 87 .496 8 Ball St. (0-1) at Navy (0-0) Denver 1 0 0 1.000 45 14 Taxs 70 62 .530 9 San Franclaco62 71 .466 12 Cincinnati (0-0) ar Penn St. (1-0) KansasChy 1 0 0 1.000 14 3 Kansas Chy 68 65 .511 11112 Houston 55 78 .414 19 Southern Miss. (1-0) at Pittsburgh (1-0) LA Raiders 0 1 0 .000 17 47 Seattle 68 66 .507 12 Thuraday'a Ga11111 Vanderblh (0-0) at Syracuse (0-0) San Diego 0 1 0 .000 20 26 California 65 68 .469 14 112 San Diego 3, St. Louis 1 Bowling Green (1-0) at West VIrginia (0-1) Seanle 0 1 .000 27
0 24 

Thureclay'a Ga11111a Only game scheduled SOUTH Chicago 11, Kansas cny 2 Frlday'a Galllll8 T ert'llle (0-0) at Alabama (0-0) NATIONAL CONFERENCE Boston 4, Seanle 3. 10 Innings San Francisco (Hickerson Hl) at Chicago (Castillo Grarrbling St. (0-0) vs. at Alcorn St. (0-0) at Eaat Toronto 13, Cleveland 1 5-3), 3:20p.m. Shreveport, La, Night w L T Pet. PA
PF 

Oakland 4, Detroit 1 Los Angeles (R.Martinez 16-9 and Ke.Groaa 8-9) at Western Kentucky (0-0) at Austin Peay (0-0), Dallas 0 
0 1.000 26 14 Only ga.JMS scheduled Pittsburgh (Tomlin 6-4 and Z.Smlth 12-10), 2, 5:35 Night N.Y. Giants 0 0 1.000 16 14 Frlday'a Galllll8 p.m. Presbyterian (0-0) at Chadel (0-0), Night Philadelphia 0 
0 1.000 20 3 Kansas Chy (Saberhagen 1 0-7) at Banimore Cincinnati (Scudder 5-5) at Montreal (Haney 2-4), Appalachian St. (1-0) at Clemson (0-0) Phoenix 0 0 1.000 24 t4 (Musalna 2--4), 7:35p.m. 7:35p.m. Bethune-Cookman (0-1) at Delaware St. (0-Washington 0 0 1.000 45 0 
Seal11e (Krueger 10-7) at Boston (Young 3-5), 7:35 Atlanta (Mercker 4-3) at New York (WhHehurst 6-0) Central 
p.m. 10), 7:40p.m. Atabama St. (1-0) at Elizabeth Chy St. (0-0) Chicago 1 
0 0 1.000 10 6 Toronto (Ju.Guzrnan 5-2) at Cleveland (Qno 1-5), Philadelphia (DeJesus 10-4) at Houston (Harnisch San Jose St. (0-0) at Florida (0-0) Detroit 0 1 0 .000 0 45 7:35p.m. 6-8), 8:35p.m. Tuskegee (0-0) at Florida A&M (0-0), Night Green Bay 0 1 0 .000 3 20 Oakland (Welch 11-10) at Detron (Terrellt0-10), St. Louis (Tewksbury 9-9) at San Diego (Bones 2-Tulane (0-1) at Florida St. (1-0), Night Minnesota 0 1 0 .000 6 107:35p.m. • 3), 10:35 p.m. LSU (0-0) at Georgia ( t -0) Tarrpa Bay 0 1 0 .000 13 16 New Yoll< (Taylor 7-7) at Minnesota (Tapanl13-7), Saturday'a Game• Savannah St. (1-0) at Georgia Southern (0-Weal 8:05p.m. Atlanta at New York, 1 :40 p.m. 1) New Orleans 1 0 0 1.000 27 24 Chicago (Alvarez 2-2) at Texas (Ryan 9-6), 8:35 San Francisco at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. Fayetteville St. (0-0) at Howard U. (0-0) Atlanta 0 1 0 .000 3 14 
p.m. Los Angeles at Pittsburgh, 7:05p.m. Central Florida (1-0) at James Madison (0-LA Rams 0 1 0 .000 14 24 
Milwaukee (Boslo 10-9) at CaiWornla (Grahe 1-7). Cincinnati at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 1), Night San Francisco 0 1 .000 14 16
0 

10:35 p.m. Philadelphia at Houston, 8:05 p.m. Miami, Ohio (1-0) at Kentucky (0-0), Night Sunday, Sept. 8Saturday'• Ga11111a St. Louis at San Diego. 10:05 p.m. New Hampshire (0-0) at Marshall (0-1), Chicago at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. 
Seattle at Boston, 1 :05 p.m. Sunday'• Ga11111a · Night Cleveland at New England, 1 p.m. 
Toronto at Cleveland, 1:35 p.m. Cincinnati at Montreal, 1 :35 p.m. Virginia (0-0) at Maryland (0-0) Green Bay at Detroit, 1 p.m. 
Kansas Chy at Bahlmore, 7:35 Los Angeles at Pittsburgh, 1 :35 p.m. Mississippi (1-0) at Memphis St. (0-0), Night Indianapolis at Miami, 1 p.m. 
p.m. Atlanta at New Yoll<, 1:40 p.m. Tennessee St. (0-1) vs. Middle Tennessee Oakland at Detron, 7:35p.m. San Francisco at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. St. (0-0) at Nashville, Tenn., Night 
Los Angeles Rams at New Yoll< Giants, 1 p.m. Minnesota at Allanta, 1 p.m. 
New Yoll< at Minnesota, 8:05 Philadelphia at Houston, 2:35 p.m. Texas (0-0) ar Mississippi St. (1-0), Night New Orleans at Kansas Cky, 1 p.m. 
p.m. Only games scheduled Southern Illinois (1-0) at Murray St. (0-0), Chicago at Texas, 6:35p.m. Night 
Phoenix at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. 
Milwaukee at CaiKornla. 10:05 North Carolina Central (0-0) at North Pittsburgh at Buffalo, 1 p.m. 
San Diego at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
p.m. Carolina A& T ( 1-0) 
AL LEADERS Denver at Los Angeles Raiders, 4 p.m. Seartle at Boston, 1 :05 p.m. 0) 
Sunday'a Ga11111a Virginia Tach (1-0) at North Carolina St. (0­New Yoll< Jets at Seattle, 4 p.m. Houston at Cincinnati, 8 p.m. 
Kansas City at Ballmore, 1 :35 AMERICAN LEAGUE Nicholls St. (0-1) at NE Louisiana ( 1-0) Monday, Sept. II
p.m. BATTING--Franco, Texas, .339; Boggs, Boston, Morgan St. (0-1) at Nortok St. (0-0) Washington at Dallas, 9 p.m. 
Toronto at Cleveland, 1 :35 p.m. .337; Palmelro, Texas, .333; Molhor, Milwaukee, Newberry (0-0) at South Carolina St. (0-0) Oakland at Detroh, 1 :35 p.m. .333; Puckett, Minnesota, .331; Thomas, Chicago, Morehead St. (0-0) at Samford (1-0), Night New Yoll< at Minnesota, 2:05 .326; GrHfey Jr. Seattle, .325. Duke (0-0) at South Carolina (0-0), Night 
p.m. 
RUNs-Molkor, Milwaukee, 110; Pafrnelro, Texas, Southeast Missouri St. (0-1) at Tennessee-Chicago at Texas, 3:0S p.m. 99; Canseco, Oakland, 96; Sierra, Texas, 94; Martin (0-1) Milwaukee at Calnornla. 8:05 Whke, Toronto, 93; Thomas, Chicago, 91; Franco, Tennessee Tech (0-0) at Tennessee­

p.m. 
Texas, BB. Chattanooga, (1-0), Night RBI-Pelder, Detroit, 115; Thomas, Chicago, 103; East Tennessee St. (0-0) at VMI (0-0) Canseco, Oakland, 96; Carter, Toronto, 95; MIDWEST JuGonzalez, Te¥as, 94; Sierra, Texas, 92; Ventura, SW Louisiana (0-1) at Central Michigan (0­


AP TOP 25 RESULTS Chicago, BB; TartabuH, Kansas Chy, BB; CRipken, 0-1) Bahlrnore, BB. Hawaii (1-0) at Iowa (0-0) HITS-Molhor, Milwaukee, 182; Palrneiro, Texas, Eastern Illinois (1-0) at Iowa St. (0-0)
How the top 25 teams In the Associated Press' college football poll fared Thuraday: 

176; Puckett, Minnesota, 173; CRipken, Bahimore, Indiana St. (0-0) at Kansas St. (0-0), Night 
169; Sierra, Texas, 165; Franco, Texas, 165; McNeese St. (0-0) at Northern Iowa (0-0) Tulane. Boggs, Boston, 158; Sax, NewYoll<, 158. Lnah St. (0-t) at Nebraska (0-0) DOUBLES-Palmeiro, Texas, 41; GrHiey Jr, Indiana (0-0) at Notre Dame (0-0) 
1. 
Florida State (1-0) did not play. Next: va. 

2. 
Michigan (0-0) did not play. Next: at Boston College. 



Seattle, 39: Boggs, Boston, 37; Carter, Toronto, 36; Arizona (0-0) at Ohio St. (0-0) CRipken, Baltimore, 36; RAiomar, Toronto, 35; Eastern Michigan (0-1) at Purdue (0-0) 
3. Miami (1-0) did not play. Next: va. No. tO Houston, Thuraday, Sept_ t2. 

Sierra, Texs, 35; Brett, Kansas Chy, 35. Kansas (0-0) at Toledo (0-0), Night Washburn (0-0) at Western Illinois (0-0)
4. 
Washington (0-0) did not play. Next: at Stanford. 


Akron (0-0) at Western Michigan (1-0) at Youngstown St.

5. 
Penn State (t-0) did not play. Next: va. NL LEADERS Edinboro (0-0) (0-0), Cincinnati. 

Night SOUTHWEST
6. 
Florida (0-0) did not play. Next: va. San Jose NATIONAL LEAGUE State. 

Southern Methodist (0-0) at Mansas (0-1),

BATTING-TGwynn, San Diego, .325; Morris, Night7. Notre Dame (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. 
Clncfn~atl, .318; Jose, St. Louis, .316; WCiark, san
Indiana. NW Louisiana (0-0) at Arkansas St. (0-t),
Franc1sco, .3tt; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, .311; 
Night6. Clemson (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. 
Pendleton, Atlanta, .3t0; Butler, Los Angeles, .308. 
Texas-EI Paso (1-0) at Baylor (0-0), Night 
Appalachian State. 

RUNS-Butler, Los Angeles, 93; Johnson, New 
Mississippi St. Central

9. Oklahoma (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. North Yoll<, 87; Sandberg, Chicago, 85; JBell, Pittsburgh, Valley (1-0) at 
All<ansas (0-0), Night 
Texas, Saturday, Sept. t4. 

83; Bonilla, Phtsburgh, 83; Gant, Atlanta, 82· tO. Houston (t-O) did not play.Next: at No. 3 
Abilene Christian (0-0) at North Texas (0-0)

Pendleton, Allanta, 81; OSmhh, St. Louis, 81. ' Miami, Thuraday, Sept. t2. 
Texas A& I (1-0) at Southwest Texas St. (0-0)

RBI-WCiark, San Francisco, 104; Bonds, 
All<ansas-Montlcello Stephen

tt. Tennessee (t-0) beat at Louisville 26-tt. Pittsburgh, 97; Johnson, New York, 93; McGriff, (0-0) at F. Next: No. 23 UCLA, Sarurday, Sept. t4. 
Austin (0-0) ' 
San Diego, 87; Dawson, Chicago, 87; Gant,t2. Colorado (0-0) did not play. Next: vs. 
Atlanta, 85; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 84. New Mexico (0-1) at Texas Christian (0-0),Wyoming. 
HITS-TGwynn, San Diego, 166; Butler, Los Night t3. Texas (0-0) did not play. Next: at M1sslaaq,1 
Angeles, 157; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 15t; WCiall< Prairie View (0-0) at Texas Southern (1-0),State. 
San Francisco, 150; Jose, St. Louis, 148; Grace: Night t4. Nebraska (0-0) did not play. Next: VI. Utah Chicago, 147; Finley, Houston, 145; Pendleton, Cal St.-Fullerton (0-1) at Texas Tach (0-0),State. 
Atlanta, 145; GBen, Chicago, 145. Night t5. Iowa (0-0) did not play. Next: VI. Hawall. 
DOUBLES-Jose, St. Louis, 38; Bonilla, Oklahoma St. (0-0) at Tulsa (1-0), Night 
t6. Southern Cal (0-t) did not play. Next: va. No. Phtsburgh, 38; Morris, Cincinnati, 30; Sabo, FAR WEST 5 Penn St. Sept. t4. 
Cincinnati, 29; WCiark, San Francisco, 29; O'Neill, Llbeny (0-0) at Boise St. (0-0), Nightt7. Georgia Tech (0-1) did not play. Next: at 
Cincinnati, 29; Zelle, St. Louis, 28; Gant, Atlanta, P&enic U. (0-1) at CaiMornia (0-0)Boston College, S.urday, Sept. t4. 
:_; JBel, Pittsburgh, 28; McReynolds, New Yon., Wyoming (0-1) at Colorado (0-0) AP16. Auburn did play. Next: va.
(1-0) not A~ Force (1-0) at Colorado St. (1-0) Miaalaalppl, Sept. t4. 
19. Michigan State (0-0) did not play. Next: VI. 

Central Michigan, Saturday, Sept t4. ~---------------------------------------------------------------­
20. 1\labama (0-0) did not play. Next: va. Terrpie. 
2t. Texas A&M (0-0) did not play. Next: VI. LSU, Saturday, Sepe. t4. 
22. 
Ohio St. (0-0) did not play. Next: VI. Arizona 

23. 
UCLA (0-0) did not play. Next: VI. No. 25 Brigham Young. 




IHI0 '1f AND lB0 'fiHIIEJRIED~ 
24. 
Syracuse (0-0) did not play. Next: va. Vandelbln. 

25. 
Brigham Young (0-1) did not play. Next: at No.23UCLA. 


TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
A11111rlcan League DETROIT TIGERS--Called up David Haas, pitcher; Rich Rowtanct, catcher; Johnny Paredes, second baseman; and Shawn Hare, outfielder, from Toledo olthe International League. National League ATLANTA BRAVES-Called up Rico Rosay, 

Cool With 
shortstop, from Richmond o1 the International League. CINCINNATI REDS-Caflad up Jack Anmtrong 
and Steve Foster, pitchers, and Freddie Benavides, Infielder, from Nashville of ·the American Asaoclatlon. 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Purchased the contract of Mike Christopher, pitcher, from Abuquerque of the Pacnic Coast League. 
BASKETBALL National Baakatball Aaaoelatlon CHARLOffi HORNETS-Signed Rex Chapman, 


guard, to a muklyear contrect extension. DETROIT PISTONS-Acquired Darrell Walker guard, from the Washington Bullets for two second: 

The voice of the Fighting Irish 
round draft picKs. Continental Ballkatbalf Aaaoclatlon ALBANY PATROONS-Traded Albert King 

Serving ~otre Dame and Saint Mary's 
forward, to the La Crosse Catbirds for Oway~ 
McClain, guard. RAPID CITY THRILLERS-Acquired Fred Cofield, guard, and a t992 seventh-round draft pick from the Rockford Lightening for Scon Wtnlams, Lorenzo Williams, Kenny Miller and Paris McCurdy, forwards. 

• 
1 . 




.... lr. ' . 

I> , •••-.. I f, .. ,. .. o A 0 I> ·-..... a .. 6 ••• oil "' "' •• 4o ..... • ........-.............. a •••• ., <lo ••• ,. '" 
Friday, September 6, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Belles' soccer confidently  USOC president attacked for conduct  
opens season today at home  
NEW YORK (AP)  - Robert  agenda before the article came  lated matters, Helmick also  
Helmick, president of the U.S.  out."  earned $75,000 in 1990 for  
By NIKKI WELLMANN  competition. We are ready to  Olympic Committee, will discuss  Asked why Helmick had put it  representing the Romanian  
Sports Writer  begin."  with  the  USOC's  executive  on the agenda, Schiller said, "I  government on non-sports mat­ 
The team will need to be  board on Saturday reports that  think he had some inquiry from  ters.  
If performance reflects atti­ fully charged up for its slated  he worked as a paid consultant  the USA Today people. He knew  A spokesman for the USOC  
tude, be  on  guard for big  competition.  DePauw,  to several sports companies  _we· had the meeting coming up  said Wednesday night that  
things from the Saint Mary's  although  a  relatively  new  with at least indirect ties to the  and he wanted to place it on  Helmick "for two days has been  
soccer team this s~ason.  program,  is  not  one  to  Olympic movement.  the agenda."  talking to officers and mem­ 
Under five-year Belles' coach  overlook, and has a strong  USA  Today  reported  on  Schiller  said  he  couldn't  bers of the executive commit­ 
Tom  Van  Meter,  the  team  recruiting class. Likewise,  Thursday that Helmick, also a  comment on whether there was  tee, nonstop" about his busi­ 
excitedly  opens  Its  1991  Wooster was nationally ranked  member of the International  any Impropriety on Helmick's  ness with four clients.  
campaign this weekend with  last year at the season's finish.  Olympic Committee executive  part until he he~rs  the full  
two home contests: Depauw  Although optimistic, Van  board, earned at least $127,000  story. He said the USOC proba­ Helmick told USA Today that  
today  at  4:00  p.m.,  and  Meter did mention some set­ In 1990 from clients involved  bly would make a statement  he did not use his USOC or IOC  
Wooster tomorrow morning at  backs  in  the  preseason.  with the Olympic movement.  after the meeting.  offices to establish the business  
10:00 a.m.  Kristin Crowley, a three-year  Helmick's deals have raised  Chuck Foster, the Olympic  relationships, that no conflict of  
~This  weekend  is  very  starter, tore a ligament and is  conflict-of-interest and disclo­ committee secretary, said the  Interest exists and that  no  
Important  because  we  working very hard for a return  sure concerns in the USOC, a  arrangements would be "an  disclosure is required.  
obviously want to get a good  in  October.  Also,  due  to  federally chartered, not-for­ embarrassment to the USOC,"  ~I  have carefully applied the  
start," Van Meter said.  "The  graduation, the Belles are in  profit organization, since he in­ the New York Times reported  standards of the organization  
home field advantage is a big  need of leaders in midfield.  formed his fellow officers of his  Thursday.  in evaluating and taking on any  
positive.  It's difficult to open  "We are forced to count on  dealings  Tuesday  and  The Times said Helmick de­ piece of business," Helmick  
up away."  people with little experience,"  Wednesday in a series of tele­ clined to disclose the amount  said. "Where it's been neces­ 
Whatever advantage Saint  he said. ~They definitely have  phone conversations.  he received for his consulting.  sary to disclose, I have.  
Mary's gained due to opening  the ability.  I just don't know if  The newspaper said the calls  Helmick,  a  lawyer in Des  "Where  it  has  not  been  
at home, however, Van Meter  they're ready.  Some other  were made after he disclosed  Moines, Iowa, was not immedi­ necessary I have frequently  
thinks  was  lost  due  to  a  starters may be moved around  his business dealings in a series  ately available for comment.  disclosed to the appropriate  
scheduling snafu.  to compensate."  of interviews with USA Today.  people to avoid any connict."  
But Van Meter hopes these  "Bob Helmick has indicated  "Based on the facts, any in­ USOC and IOC member Anita  
~we did not have any pre­ changes do not affect the ag­ he'll give a full briefing on the  ference or allegation of an ap­ DeFrantz told USA Today, "We  
season  scrimmages,"  the  gressiveness of his team's play.  matter  to  the  board,  and  pearance of impropriety is un­ do serve the public trust, but  
coach said. ~As a team, we are  "We want to be assertive in  there'll be discussion after  warranted," he was quoted as  most important, we serve ath­ 
very untested. You can only  our play," he said. "We need to  that," USOC executive director  saying in the Times.  letes. We are held to a high  
scrimmage  each  other  so  take advantage of every oppor­ Harvey Schiller said. "Actually,  USA Today said that in addi­ standard of conduct. Those  
much.  We  need  outside  tunity and go after it."  Bob  had  placed  it  on  the  tion to consulting on sports-re­ who serve must do so without  
personal gain."  

SOPHOMORE CLASS DUNES TRIP!!! 
Join your classmates this Sunday for Fun in the Sun 
$9 tickets are available now at the infonnation desk of Lafortune. . 
Transportation on Charter Buses as well as Park admission are provided. 
Questions? Call 234-5225. 
PliO~ Specialists In PtoBikes
• 

Sponsors of ND Cycling Team 
• Professional Fitting­
1 011 
a •I• K • E s • H • o • P Frame Alignment Minutes from Campus-1724 N. Ironwood 272-Q129 
• 

: $5.00 OFF Kryptonite : 1 Biker Lock I I (Rczclczczm bczforcz Sczpt. :JO. 199'1) I 
·------------------------~ 
SOUTH BEND TURNERS lU-ND Post GameParty Hot/Cold Deli Buffet DJ Music and Games 
$5.00 per person at door. Must be 21 to enter. 
North Ironwood at the Tollroad. 277-0851 
Helmick, a volunteer in the USOC and IOC, was paid for: Advising Turner Broadcasting on obtaining rights to the Pan American Games; explaining to marketing groups the process of gaining Olympic status for a sport; licensing and interna­tional contracting for the agency seeking sponsors for the USOC, and devising strategy for the Romanian government to improve Its relations in the United States. 
Helmick denied any impropriety, said any suggestion that the deals represent a pattern is "a gross mischaracterization" and that the clients in question "are not a major part of my work." 
Backs 
continued from page 24 
secondary is sophomore Willie Clark. The Wheatland, Cal. na­tive had a topsy-turvy freshman campaign, switching midseason from tailback to free safety. However, for 1991, he is back at the position where he earned all-state honors in high school. 

Do the wave atthe Wharf. 
Doing the "wave" at Notre Dame football games is practically an institution. And so is going to the Wharf Restaurant for the freshest seafood, beef and chicken entrees in town! Notre Dame fans have been enjoying the Wharf's fabulous lunches and dinners for years! And our salad buffet has a reputation that's second to none! When you need to satisfy a winning appetite, follow the wave to the Wharf Restaurant. 
300 East Colfax at the River 234-44n 
"He's got the most pure speed of the backs," Beck said. "He can make things happen." 
Senior Ryan Mihalko wiiJ see playing time backing up Bettis at fullback this season. The three-year monogram winner is one of the most versatile Irish players, excelling on special teams as well as in the backfield. 
"He rarely makes a mental error," said Beck. "He's a solid blocker, and has also improved as a runner." 
With junior quarterback Rick Mirer's development, the em­phasis placed on the running game the past few years may be lessened. Still, Beck believes his charges are ready to adapt to a more balanced attack. 
"The backs will make a con­

-
tribution to the passing game," he said. "Number one, I would think of us as a running team, but )\Umber two, as a team that has balance, that can either run or pass well." 
The proof will come Saturday. 


---~-~ ~---------~----~------­
page 18 The Observer Friday! September 6, 1991 
SPORTSBRIEFS

South Africa ready for the world; 
gymanstics team first to compete 
•The Observer accepts sports •The water polo club will briefs in writing at The have a mandatory meeting on Observer office on the third Sunday September 8, at 8 p.m. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -After (NOCSA), an interim governing apartheid legislation and vari-­floor of LaFortune from 9:00 in the Montgomery Theatre. 
an absence of some three body for international sports ous athletic federations were 
a.m. until 4:30 p.m .. Be sure to decades, South Africa will re­competition by South African retooled to remove vestiges of 
include date, place, time and •Women's softball tryouts: 
turn to the world sporting stage athletes. racial separation. 
number of days the brief is to anyone who wants to tryout for when its five-member team 
run. The Observer reserves the the women's softball team competes in the World Scheepers said the union is Two men and three women 
right to edit all briefs. should report to the softball Gymnastics Championships. unwilling to relinquish its role gymnasts have been in 
diamond at Alumni Field on 
as the primary policy making Indianapolis since Saturday, 
•Off Campus lnterhall Monday, September 9 at 4:00 The way was cleared for body for gymnastics in South practicing and waiting for a 
football players can sign up by p.m. South Africa's return when the Africa. decision on whether they would 
calling Steve at 233-3882 or International Gymnastics "We do not agree to give away be allowed to compete. 
234-6976. Tryouts will be held •The Aikido Club will begin Federation's executive commit­our autonomy, we are not Scheepers said he had been 
at 6:30 pm on Thurs. practice on Monday, September tee voted late Wednesday to al­mixing sport and politics," "pretty confident because there 
September 5 on Stepan field. 9 at 219 Rockne. Beginners low the athletes to take part in Scheepers said. "But we are is nothing wrong with gymnas­
are welcome to attend. 

the meet, which begins confident we can work out our tics in South Africa"." Although 
Saturday. differences." the five gymnasts in town for 
•Novice rowing coaches •Irish Insanity will meet at "Obviously, it's a wonderful Berry said the mission of this meet are white, there are a 
are needed for the 1991-92 the men's soccer game Tuesday 
moment for us," said Kobus NOCSA will be to "bring the "a lot" of blacks involved in the 
season. All interested parties at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field, Scheepers, president of the winds of change through." sport, he said. 
should contact Pete at 271-opposite the Eck pavilion. Call s·outh African Amateur 
8466. Due to scheduling Mark Mueller at 283-2794 or Gymnastics Union. "We're quite Berry then responded to a The last time South Africa 
conflicts the novice general Kristen Garvey at 283-4230 if happy with this event. Sport is question about whether nations participated in the World 
meeting has been changed you have any questions. the winner." opposed to South Africa's Gymnastics Championships was 
from Friday to Monday, apartheid policies might boycott in 1966 at Dortmund, Germany. 
September 9 at 7:00 p.m. in •Window posters should be During a news conference to­the championships. "I think they Will be able to 
room 118 Nieuwland Hall. up in time to impress the day, Scheepers said the union is "My personal view is that no stand up well, not against the 
alumni and intimidate the committed to a program of non­nation will pull out and if they top ones, but they will repre­
Hoosiers this weekend. Each 
racial expansion of gymnastics do they're crazy," Berry said. sent themselves well," 
•Anyone Interested In dorm received one per room in the country. "What has occurred is that Scheepers said. 
playing off campus interhall number. There may be 
"Out development program is ·sport is once again moving Susan Polakoff of the U.S. 
soccer can call Paul or Rob at shortages for RA's andother not country-wide," he said. "It ahead of governments." Gymnastics Federation said the 
277-5329. Transfers are very hall staff. If this is the case, call is currently centered in the Moments after the an­executive committee considered 
welcome. Mark Meuller at 283-2704 with larger cities like Johannesburg nouncement, Scheepers and three factors in lifting its ban: 
the number of posters needed. 
and Cape Town. But it has been three other members of the 
integrated from the start. South African federation cele­-"Basically, they felt since 
•The ND Martial Arts •ND Cheerleaders will be Jim Berry, a member of the brated with a sip of champagne. South Africa had been a mem­
Institute will start beginners performing at the pep rally in 
In terna tional Gymnastics ber of the International 
practice on Thursday from 6:30 the J.A.C.C. at 7:00 Friday Federation's executive commit­"Obviously, you can .tell by the Gymnastics Federation since 
to 8:30 and Sunday 5:00 to 7:00 night and on Saturday morning tee, echoed Scheepers. expression on our faces that we 1947; that was a deciding fac­
in room 219 of the Rockne in front of the bookstore at are delighted," team manager tor." 
Memorial. Advanced classes 10:30 p.m., featuring Wagz, the "The FIG had to be certain Elizabeth Cameron-Smith said. 
will be held Friday 6:00 to 8:00 new leprechaun. Come out and that the conditions of non-racial -"That the International 
and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00. support the Irish. development programs and South Africa took a first step Olympic Committee has seen to Anyone is welcome to attend. integration were in place," toward a return to world sport embrace them as a member in 
•ND/SMC Sailing club: The Berry, an Australian, said. when International Olympic good standing. 
first meeting of the year will be "We've seen evidence of that," Committee president Juan •Men's and womens's held on Monday, September 9 Antonio Samaranch suggested a tr11r.lc 11nn fipltl, A mPPt.inu will at 7:00 v.m. at thfl Roat HousP..
-"They thought it was very

Still to be resolved are the repeal of apartheid laws could be held for anyone interested in Old and new members are
important that since this is the 

philosophical differences be­lead to reinstatement in the only Olympic qualifying meet participating on Thursday welcome. Please bring your tween the South African September 12 at 4 p.m. in dues. For more information call 
Olympic movement. The for gymnastics, they did not Amateur Gymnastics Union and original estimate was 1996, but want to deny this opportunity to Loftus Auditorium. Moira Sullivan at 284-5344. the National Olympic a groundswell of change within 
compete in the 1992 Summer • .;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~
Committee of South Africa 

the country brought down the Games in Barcelona." 
WELCOME FANS 
Line 

Affordable Fine Dining 
continued from page 24 

Casual Dress 
returning starters know what to expect of each other after a 

1 Mile East of NO Stadium year on the line. The five have combined to form a unit with 
VITIORIO'S 
an attitude that has impressed Moore, and he hopes it contin­

21 04 E. Edison, South Bend 
ues to game time. 

287-2100 
at:J:::."hs~~d ~~o~:~s~~~~i:l...._____R:..:.::eo.:s:.::e~rv~a::.t:.:i.:O;,:,n.:.:s~A.:.~~D~:.~:D;.:.'re~c~ia::::.t.:;:e::.;d=----....1 titude before the game is on~r------------------------"""1 
thing. The one during the game is either going to pay dividends or give us cause for concern." 
Expect the dividends to pay. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
could well be decided by de­fense. Mercyhurst returnsthree starters from a defense which allowed only 15 goals in 22 games. The anchor of which is All-American candidate, goalkeeper, Andrea Colaurotolo. Last season she recorded 13 shutouts, and she has a lifetime goals against av­erage of 0.63. 

-
Notre Dame's defense is equally as impressive. Last 
season they let up only 18 goals in 20 games, and they too have a terrific keeper. Michelle Lodyga had a team-rec;ord 11 shutouts in 1990 to go along with a 0. 79 goals against aver­age. Her skills will be put to the test against the powerful Mercyhurst attack. 

PEP RALLY 
The Road to the National Championship begins on Friday at 7:00 pm at the J.A.C.C. (Basketball Arena) 
Go Irish! 
The Best Rates in Town! 
Call and compare our rates to any other federally insured financial institution. We're sure you'll find we have the best rates In town! 

3 Month Certificate 6 Month Certificate 

12 Month Certificate 
$2,000 Minimum Deposit Dividends Paid at Maturity 
Substantial penalty for early withdrawal 
5.752% 
Daily Money Market Account $2,500 Minimum 
All annual interest rates listed here are subject to change without notice 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent from the University 



·--------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Friday, September 6, 1991 The Observer 'page19 
Irish women's golf team prepares for fall season 

By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
This weekend, while most of the students' attention will be focused on the football season opener, the women's golf team will be kicking off their fourth varsity season at Michigan's Wolverine Invitational on September 7th and 8th. 
Although juniors Kathy. Phares and Cappy Mack, two of the team's most consistent per­formers last season, will sit out the fall campaign, coach Tom Hanlon has reason to be opti­mistic. Senior captain Allison Wojnas leads a strong group of returning players, which In­cludes sophomores Chrissy Klein and Alicia Murray. 
Wojnas, a Plainfield, N. J., native, captured the New Jersey State Women's Golf Committee Amateur Championship over the summer. Seeded 16th, 
1. It's easy to use. 

Bring home an Apple• Macintosh• computer today, and use it to complete assignments by tonight-even ifyou've never us<.>d acomputer before. 
2. You don't hllve to ..,..k comput-... 
~ol 

lnJii!Ud ofci)1J/if MHJOS wmmmuis such as COPY C 
II'!!RJ>PROC\DIIAfTCXJC A I II'!)RJ(, Maclnta<h use; familiar umds, such as opy and Print. and{JIC/uii!S, such asjiltfiJ/Jm fi>r str>n"R )OOr documt'PI~ and atmsh can forfiles )OO uan/lo 
1hmU1QUUV 

3. You don't hll-to be • computer science ftl8jor to HI -up. just plug everything together, flip the "on" 
~"Witch, and you're ready to roD. 

4. H's • bNeZe to copy lnfonnetlon 8nd pilste H Into •nother doc-.rt. 

To copy tlrll chan, umpl)• use lhe IIIOUS<'Io diOOSP tht' opy wmmand 


To plm:t tlw chart In QIJO//ttr J.<·umenl, JUSI choose tht' /'asltrommand 

5. All M8c:lntosh prog,.mia wortc In the umew•Y· learn to use one Macintosh program, and 
you've learned the basics of using them all. For example, the commands you use, such as Open, Close, Copy, Paste, Save, Cut, Print, and Undo, arc found in the same place­every time. 
0 1991 Apple Compurcr, Inc. Apple, rhc Apple logo, loc>fTalk. Macimosh, and 1'hc powLT 10 be your bcsr" '"' rcgisrcrcd rrademarks of Apple Compurcr, Inc Supcrt>riYe tlau;tdenu.ri. of Applt Computet, Inc. IBM and OS/2 m rqpstered tl'1demarlt5 oflmernational Business Machmcs Corpor.llioo. MS.OOS Is aregiStered tr:Kiemark of Microsoft Corpocatkm. 
Wojnas stormed through the field and won the crown with a convincing 6 and 4 victory in the final round of the match play tournament, marking the first time the lowest seeded player has taken the title in the 66-year history of the Championship. 
Sophomore Alicia Murray of Mitchell, S. D., also boasts some proud off-season accom­plishments. Seven strokes off the pace going into the final round of the South Dakota Women's Stroke Play Championship, Murray carded a tournament-best 72 to finish in a tie for second-place, just one shot from victory. A birdie on the second sudden death hole gave her second-place outright. 
No amount of practice can replace that type of tournament experience, and the Irish will rely heavily on the leadership of Wojnas and Murray to carry 

12reasons 
whyyou'lllove 
.............cintrnh 
6. It can growwith you. 
This week you're majoring in philosophy, next week it's nuclear physics. After all, no one knows exactly what the future will bring. That's why millions ofstudents have found that invest­ing in aMacintosh is asmart move. Bealuse Macintosh can immediately help you do what· ever you do-better. And if, come tomorrow, you find that you want to do something different, no problem. It's easy to upgrade your Macintosh to help you rise to the challenge. 
7. H's g,..t tor college •nd beyond. Doing your work fuster, better, and more creatively is also aplus 
~~~wo:g ]~%
that's pred;ely why Mallntosh computers are 

0 
usixl in 74 pen:ent of Fortune 1000 companies.' 

8. H's got connections. 1b connect aprinter, amodem, an external hard dL~k. or just about any other peripheral to aMacintosh, simply plug it in. That's all there is to it. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 

Hours: Mon. · Fri., 9:00 • 5:00 
Allison Wojnas 
them through a difficult fall schedule. Because of tighter NCAA regulations, that tough fall schedule will not include the Lady Irish Invitational for the first time in several years. This season, September 7th is the first day the NCAA will allow teams to compete, and the Invitational is traditionally held over Labor Day weekend. 
The Women's Campus Championship, however, took 
or software. 

the place of the Invitational last Saturday and Sunday. Wojnas continued her dominant play, winning the title with a 36-hole total of 161. Sophomore Chrissy Klein finished second at 166, while Murray completed the two rounds with a 181 total. Promising freshman Katy Cooper finished at 183 and classmates Liz Fennen and Katie Shannon each turned in a two-round total of 184 
This weekend at the Wolverine Invitational, however, the Irish will be put to the test against some of the midwest's toughest competition. The field includes Bowling Green State, Cincinnati, DePauw, Ferris State and Purdue along with host Michigan. 
The road won't get any easier for the Irish after their first test this weekend. Four other fall tournaments are scheduled including invitationals at Illinois 

11. You e~~n cennec:t to your school's nYIInfnlme or minicomputer. 
With Macintosh, you can send in assignments, gain access to software you 
'""'" need for aclass, and receive lecture notes, class schedules, and other information-right from your 
Oortnltor,.
own room. 

12. It's more affordable than ever 
Macintosh prices have never been lower-, especially with the student pricing available from your authorized Apple campus rescUer. 

)·l ~ 
You may even qualify for financing, which makes Macintosh even more affordable. 

These reasons all add up to the 1. 
"
power of Macintosh. The power .. to be your best~ ... 
State, Michigan State, Illinois and Northern Illinois. That type of competition, however, can only help the players improve and give them valuable tournament experience that will undoubtedly pay ofT as the sea­son progresses. 
One obstacle that the team will face in the early going is its inexperience. Despite their im­pressive performances in the Campus Championship, the freshmen remain untested, and they will be forced to play a key role if the team is to be suc­cessful. "We're very young and missing the two juniors (Phares and Mack} is really tough," commented Coach Hanlon, Mbut I'm optimistic about out team doing well." 
If last season's performances are any indication, the team should do very well. At Michigan State last year, the Irish fired back-to-hack school records of 322 and 316, and considering the amount of returning talent coupled with the improving freshmen, those numbers should continue to dwindle. 


MEiAN\VI-1/U... 
where else can you go dancing, visit the casino, or have dinner with friends? 
...IN THE NITE CLUB 
SAVE$2.00 with this coupon for admission into the Nite Club between 7 to 9 PM Tues-Sat 

ND1 offer expires 9-29-91 
.........•.•••..•.••.•.•.....•.... 
. ~
•.........•....•....•..•••.....••.. 
. 
•..IN THE GRILL 
FREE APPETIZER with this coupon when you order 2dinner entrees 4pm to close Mon ·Sat 

ND1 offer expires 9-29-91 
•..................................
~ 

N\EAl\1\VUILE•.. 
2..2..2. f>OUTH MICHIGAN f>OVTH ~NO, INDIANA 
:z.tf 2.34 52.00 

-----~---------------------~-­
page 20 The Observer Friday, September 6, 1991 
SPOR1SSHORTS Pickens and Vols demolish Louisville 
M&vi~ director resigns
fr_m _occer club 
• FLORENCE, Italy (AP) ­
Movie director Franco Zeffirelli has resigned from the board of the Fiorentina soccer club after he supported violent fans in interviews. Club president Mario Cecchi Gori said Thursday that Zeffrrelli "made a mistake and we could do nothing but accept his resignation from the board." Zeffirelli, in interviews following the violence-marred Juventus-Fiorentina game in Turin on Sunday, said the fans ere reacting to Turin's power. Zeffirelli also complained about ..scandalous" calls by the referees. The game, which Juventus won 1-0, was marred by fights in the stands. At least 25 people were injured and dozens of Florentine fans were rounded up for damaging seats. Gianni Agnelli, the chairman of Fiat and a big Juventus rooter, 
quoted as saying: "ZetTrrelli is a talented man ... but soccer apparently makes people lose their head." 
ROCHES ER, N.Y. -Two Rochester Red Wings wrote a page in minor league history by aeh playing all nine field positions in their season-ending ' International League game gainst the Syracuse Chiefs. But ommy Shields and Shane Turner's feat Wednesday night wasn't appreciated by everyone. Mit upset some of the guys, because in a way it was showing up our team," Chiefs left fielder Jerry Schunk said after his team's 8-0 loss to Rochester. "It was no great accomplishment," Chiefs manager Bob Bailor said. "If they'd played all nine positions over the course of the season, now that's a great accomplishment... Turner said 
~A 
~\@ 
PATTirS 
YI)URSUF A FlAVOR 
-............._. _ 
FOR $8.99 l'lc:hnytwoGounnot Sandwlclla, two pnlenSalads, 
plu1 your choke cl Frendt Fries or Onion Rfop and 2 Mini-Sundaes 
-­
expiration •~<•lt•'-~1/"J''llt 
SUNDAE 
99~ 

the two players came up wi.th the idea a couple nights ago, and. asked manager Greg Biagini about it. "He said we could do it it if we clinched second place" in the league's east division, Turner said. The Wings did that Tuesday. In the fmal game, Shields pitched the fli'St inning and Turner caught. In the second, they switched. Both right-banders allowed one walk but no hits in their one inning. Shields ended his inning by striking out Robert Perez. After the second, Shields and Turner, both infielders, played an inning at every position. Turner previously played every position except catcher. Shields, who played left field for the first time in his career on Tuesday, made his debut at right, center and ·catcher. He said catching was a nerve­wracking experience. "It was a game of survival," he said. "I was just praying no one stole on me." 
iollege R,res. bet on 
arshall-.H.tP.ame 
• HUNTINGTO~ W.Va. ­
Marshall president G. Wade Gilley and his predecessor, Dale Nitzschke, now president at New Hampshire, have a bet riding on the outcome o Saturday's football game between the two schools. I Marshall wins, Nitzschke will vote for Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder in New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation presidential primary should Wilder be a candidate. If New Hampshire wins, Gilley will give Nitzschke the blueprints for Marshall's new football stadium. Gilley is a supporter of Wilder, who has been mentioned as a possible presidential candidate. Nitzschke was Marshall's president before he took the New Hampshire job last summer, and he helped get the new 28,000-seat stadium built. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) -Carl Pickens caught a 75-yard touchdown pass and scored on a 67-yard punt return as 11th­ranked Tennessee ended Louisville's eight-game winning streak with a 28-11 victory Thursday night. 
Freshmen Aaron Hayden and James Stewart added TD runs for the Volunteers before a record Cardinal Stadium crowd of 40,457 that included Louisville native Muhammad Ali. 
Tennessee (1-0) dominated the game despite five turnovers. The defending Southeastern Conference champs gained twice as many yards as Louisville, 421-211. 
Louisville (1-1) pulled to 21­11 early in the fourth quarter on a 20-yard TD pass from Jeff Brohm to Randy Wyatt and a two-point conversion run by Brohm. But Tennessee clinched the victorx with 10:49 left when Pickens fielded a punt on his own 33, juked Terrance Roscoe and raced down the right sideline to put the Volunteers ahead 28-11. 
Tennessee's Andy Kelly com­pleted 10 of 20 passes for 150 yards with two interceptions. Pickens, who led the Southeastern Conference in re­ceiving last year, had four re­ceptions for 98 yards. 
Brohm, who was 14-of-25 for 
133 yards, had a tough night. 
He was sacked seven times for 
flO varrls bP.fom frad.nrinl!' his leg with 5:09 left in the game. 
Tennessee scored on its third play from scrimmage when Kelly and Pickens connected on a 75-yard TD pass. Pickens caught the ball in the clear on the Louisville 32, eluded a div-

A A---,~-----••-oo •• •• •• •• •• •••• A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A
expiration 

BRUNO'S NOW DELIVERS 
FREE DELIVERY to ST. MARY'S & ND 
SPECIAL LARGE 18" PIZZA $14.00l'WOITRIIUMIT 
SMALL 12" PIZZA $ 1.50 TWOJTriiUMtf 

~I Italian Pasta 
.---JI 
"All Homemade-100% Real Cheese" = Spllclal 7 CoutH Dinner • Charcoal Chicken & Steak 

Prtttaq P•niea 288-3320 Benquttt Room 
11....-Tia..IIICAM"-'l 21101tFWIIIIIAV!. 
Now you are the teacher!!! Happy Birthday, Kelly Fraleigh!!! 
A·~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A~A A 
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A
..A 

A A· A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A "".r_,A A A A A AhA A A 
A A:A:A:A:A~La~~:A:A:A:A:A:A: .. AA A AAAAA 
A A AVOrilAA ~A A A A 
.......................................t .............................................. 
A 
"" ... ... A .... A A A A A A
BAA.A 

AAAAA u~AAAAAAA A A 
................................................. ~................................................... 
A.. 
A 
::::~~;r~y::::::: 

A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A ~ A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
ing Robert Knuutila and raced down the sideline to give the Volunteers a 7-0 lead. 
Louisville had a cha 1ce to tie it midway through the second period after Ray Buchanan's 43-yard interception return gave the Cardinals the ball on the Tennessee 32. But after gain!ng a first down on the Tennessee 2, the Cardinals were stopped on four straight running plays. On fourth-and-1, running back Ralph Dawkins bobbled the ball and was halted short of the goal by Darryl Hardy. 
The Cardinals, who opened their season with a 24-14 vic­tory over Eastern Kentucky, made it 7-3 with 4:12 left in the half on a 42-yard field goal by Klaus Wilmsmeyer. But Tennessee responded with an 82-yard, 11-play scoring drive that featured Stewart and Hayden. 
The freshmen combined for eight carries and 60 yards during the drive, with Hayden going the final yard to put the Volunteers ahead 14-3. 
Stewart gave the Volunteers a 21-3 lead in the third quarter when he scored on a 10-yard run. 
·' Every Sunday Specials Every Nite Student 301 Blind Draw' Sign 'JP by 1 :00 Live Bands $3.00 entry fee Thurs. -Sun Prize Money Added With Sun. Being 
10 Dart Boards Jam Nite Wide Screen lV ~ _ /t Food Specia~ .!..J..1Dl ~ • 
1st Anniversary Week 'E~~----• 
f{ick Off with Rock & Roll Hoochie Coo Man Rick Derringer ­Sept. 19th Dr. Hook Sept. 24th Ending with Com and Sausage Roast Sept. 28th. $3.00 plate :::njoy the Food & Watch the ND Game 
M-Thur 3-1 Fri. 2-3:30 Sat. 11:00-3:30 Sun. 12:00-12:30 
EARLY BIRD 

SPECIAL 5-7 pm Prime Rib $4.95 Home of the famous stuffed sandwiches $4.25 
Sandwiches & Appt. Every Nite 
from open to close 

1516 N. Ironwood 
South Bend 
233-7747 
Don't Forget 

Shoney's Seafood Bar 
Friday and Saturday Starting at 5:00 p.m. 


SHOREY'S 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
Available only at Sho~ey's welcomes the • participating restaurants. Amencan Express• Card. • Cards 
Friday, September 6, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Irish women's volleyball team is off to Louisville 
the hands of no. 13 Wisconsin  
and third-ranked Nebraska.  
Kentucky is led by two seniors,  
middle-blocker Cathy DeBuono  
(averaging 12 kills per match)  
and  outside-hitter  Yvette  
Moorehead.  
Louisville,  meanwhile,  
knocked off all three opponents  
at the recent Commonwealth  
Challenge.  In  those  three  
matches, junior Shannon Misek  
and senior Laurie Maxwell tal­ 
lied 44 and 38 kills, respec­ 
tively.  
"Louisville is a very strong  
team, maybe  even  stronger  
than Kentucky," Brown said.  
For Notre Dame, co-captains  
Alicia Turner (21 kills, 13 digs)  
in terms of boosting the team's confidence, but now Notre Dame must let go of last week­end and concentrate on Kentucky and Louisville. "The team has to regroup and refocus," Irish coach Debbie  The Obserwr I John Rock The Notre Dame women's volleyball team will be looking to build on last week's victory against Purdue this weekend at the Big Four Classic in Louisville. competition." two games to one and were most encouraging thing about But still, Brown hopes to able to come back and still the match."  and Chris Choquette (17 kills) again will play important roles. However, one player Brown would like to utilize more is ju­nior Marilyn Cragin. "We need to make her more of an offensive threat," Brown  
Brown said. "The hardest thing for the team this week has been to put the win over Purdue behind us and focus on our next  build on some of the positives gained from last weekend's match. · "We got behind in the match  win," she said. "We didn't fold. We hung together as a team and played a very strong fourth and fifth game. That was the  While Friday night's oppo­nent, Kentucky, may be only 1­2, its record is deceiving. The Wildcats' two losses came at  said. "l hope to get more pro­ductivity out of her, because she could give some teams some pretty big headaches."  


Nebraska coach vehemently denies steroid charges 
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) Jebraska coach Tom Osborne aid Thursday he's tired of in­tUendo linking the Increased lze and strength of the :ornhuskers' offensive line to 1nabolic steroid use. 
He said tests were done this ummer on all players who vorked out in Lincoln -about -0 to 50 -and one or two were •ositive. He did not identi(y the player or players who tested positive but said all offensive 

linemen tested negative this summer. 
No player has tested positive for steroids in the random testing that Nebraska has done during the season since 1984, Osborne said. 
"lt's amazing to me that any time you see a fluctuation in strength and size the issue of steroids comes up," Osborne said at the Comhusker Football Breakfast. 
The coach said he has read four or five articles that hint at steroid use among team mem­bers and has been questioned about it by interviewers. 
"I guess the idea is that we're on steroids," Osborne said. "The fact that we weren't very big and strong last year must have meant we quit taking them." 
Osborne said some people suspect steroids are partly re­sponsible for the NU offensive line's increases in size and strength this year. The starting line has gained an average of 
23.4 pounds to 288.6 and im­proved its bench press by 43 pounds to 357. 
"All of this stems from the fact that we pounded the heck out of people in the '80s," Osborne said. "We were a very physical football team that rushed the ball very well, and Dean Steinkuhler said he used some steroids back in the early '80s." 
But Osborne said it would be difficult for a player at· Nebraska to get away with us­Ing the drugs, believed to build muscle mass and enhance ath­letic performance. Taking steroids for body-building or athletic purposes is against federal and state law. 
Six to 10 players were found through player interviews to have used steroids in the oast two or three years, Osborn said. 
WELCOME BACK FIGHTING IRISH! Just Because You're Back At School Doesn't Mean The Summer Fun Has To End ... We've Got What It Takes! FREE NEON FRISBEE! WHILE SUPPLIES LAST. WITH PURCHASE OF STUDENT SPECIAL! STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $699ONE TOPPING ADDITIONALSECOND PIZZA TOPPINGSPIZZA AVAILABLE$4 MORE! LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any ot.J:ter offer. Deliverx area limited to_ens~re safe drivmg. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late dehvenes. NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 271-0300 289-0033 1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave.  


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
• •' ,. ,~ ...~ ... ,, • t" ~ J
t · · · ;·I 

page 22 The Observer Friday, September 6, ·1991 
Haarhuis latest victim as Conners goes into semifinals of U.S. Open 
NEW YORK (AP) -The ball had gone back and forth across the net all of seven times on a cool autumn evening when palms got moist and the first wave of panic struck. 
Jimmy Connors wasn't ner­vous-he hadn't even broken a sweat yet -but he might have been the only person among the 20,541 shoe-horned into the National Tennis Center on Thursday night who was not. 
"Jimbo!" 
"C'mon Jimmy!" 
"Wake up!" 
The same crowds that had cursed Connors in his youth have become his salvation in his old age. And after carrying him through a series of already im­probable adventures, they were not about to begin taking chances with this one. 
-
So when Dutchman Paul Haarhuis shot out of the gate so fast that, like the old New York Yankees playing on the road, he threatened to take the crowds out of the match, they stubbornly turned up the vol­ume. 
And when Connors began climbing back into the match late in the fi.rst set, it got louder still. Serving at 4-4 in the second set, Connors slid to 0-40 and was preparing to serve when off to his left a lone voice pierced the quiet. 
"Play your game, Jimmy!" someone howled. 
Connors looked up from the baseline, paused with his hands on his hips and shot back, "What the hell do you think I'm doing?" 
The turning point in the match came in the very next game, when Haarhuis had a chance to serve for the second set. Trailing 30-40, he pinned Connors to the baseline with a sizzling forehand and made a rare foray into the net. Four 
Men 
continued from page 24 Berticelli. "We have a tremen­dously hard working bunch of kids and I'm extremely im­pressed with their work ethic." Hopefully Berticelli will be impressed with the first and only warm-up for the season, although the opposition does not concern Berticelli. 
"It'll be a big experiment with the way we'll try to things in the regular season," said Bericelli. "We're approaching it as a practice opportunity against other players." 


straight times, Connors ran down overheads and threw up a lob in defense and each time the roar of the crowd rose to meet the ball at the height of its arc. 
When he finished the point and grabbed the service break in the bargain with a backhand winner up the line on the dead run, the place went up for grabs. Connors could have sneezed and received a standing ovation. 
By comparison, Haarhuis could have developed the cure for the common cold and he wouldn't have gotten a slap on the back from this gathering. 
It became so unruly, in fact, that the crowd had taken to cheering Haarhuis' service faults and midway through the second-set tiebreaker, chair umpire Bruno Rebeuh admon­ished the crowd to keep quiet between the first and second serves. 
Despite the interruptions, Haarhuis was diplomatic about Jimmy connors.... I think that
would happen at any tourna­ment. If, like a French Open, you are playing Yannick Noah, they will go nuts over there. I don't think it is the attitude of the people watching." 
But his rapport with these 
New York galleries is different. 
They even found unusual ways 
to give him a breather when he 
needed one. In the third set, Connors was preparing to serve leading 5-4 and 40-0 when a fracas broke out in the stands nearby. 
"I went over and said, 'Don't you all know it's a tennis match? That that's not sup­posed to happen in this country club game.' 
"Actually, it was a welcome break for me. It let me stand around a little bit and catch my breath. But no," Connors chuckled, "I didn't plant that." 
~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Ih~ObseLVer_ 
is looking for an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due Friday, September 6. 

We Invite you to attend 
First U:pited Methodist Church 333 N. Main St., South Bend (comer of Main & Madison) With parking available behind the church 
8:45am INFORMAL CELEBRATION SERVICE 11:00 am TRADITIONAL SERVICE 9:45 am Sunday School for all ages Coffee and cookies served between services 
Dr. Allan Byrne, Senior Pastor Tim Robison, Music Director/Organist Cindy Solum, Christian Education Director 
We promise a warm welcome to First United Methodist Church. Need trans rtation? Call 233-9463 
Saint Mary's v-ball loses, plays again this weekend 
By EILEEN McGUIRE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volleyball team began its season with a loss to Saint Xavier 17-15, 9­15, 1-15, 13-15 Wednesday evening. 
Saint Mary's new head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek decided, however, that this loss could be overcome and now it will be a matter of working on the rest of the season. 
"It was a good loss to Saint Xavier," she said. "They were a very well-skilled team. I am not disappointed in the team at all. We know what to work on in pr~ctice in the future." 
"Our passing was way off, and our blocking errors hurt us," junior captain Karen Lorton, who had nine kills, said. "I know we can do bet­ter." 
Saint Mary's took the lead in the match early, winning the first game. 
"That game showed that the team posesses a lot of charac­ter. It was tight all the way, and it's good for them to know they could pull out a game like that," said Schroeder­Biek. 
Saint Mary's then bolted out to a 6-0 lead in the second game, but lost control of the match from there on. Especially disappointing to the new coach was her team's play in the disastrous third game. 
"After we lost the lead, we panicked. We need to work on maintaining control," observed Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles-who consist of five juniors and no seniors-will play this weekend against Kalamazoo College at the Hornet Invitational. 
~~~~~~~~~~~m~~~~~~~~~~~~r 

Are you looking for committed Christian friendships? If you saw us at Activities Night or if you missed us, come to the Introductory Session before our meeting: 
@g~@ [~)o[/iJDc ~~[[@ @&J[!iJD@ ~@@[/iJD~ 
~m 00@@[)' l11IDW®l7lkomro® 
WE'RE LDOIGND FORWARD TO MEETING YOU 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
WHAT IF YOU DON'T GO INTO THE SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesor being admitted into their first·choice schools. Fad is. noone has helped students score higher' 
272•4135 


~----~---~~~~~-----------­
Fri41:Jy, September 6, 1991 The Observer page 23 
MENU CROSSWORD ' 
Notre Dame 
ACROSS 30 Of a cranial 51 Hauberks nerve 
53 Hair-raising

Baked Pollack 1 Nucleus of 
31 Dearer activity
trained people 

Quiche Lorraine 
34 -liberation 55 Columnist
6 Native-born 

Pasta Bar 
movement Smith
Israeli

Grilled Pastrami and Swiss Sandwich 
11 Doc. certifiers 35Actress 56 Life's purpose 
Hartmann of TV for singer 
14 A prince of 

Saint Mary's 
Simeon: I Chr.4 3& Belafonte's pet James? name for his 58 Dalmatian
15 Afoot, in Aries 

French Bread Pizza daughter? number
1& Yes, to Yves 

Chicken Tortilla Casserole 38 Sarnoff's org. 59 Capp character 
17 Acclaim for 

Banana Split Salad Liszt? 39 Feels 60 Double quartet 
Deli Bar 
19 Amalgamation 41 Displaced &1 Ethyl ending 20 "What's-?" &2 Ogee shapes 
persons 
43 Genus of geese

21 Places 83 Warehouse 44 Harassing person 
23 Singer Cantrell 
24 Ornamental 
DOWN 

case 45Tabula­2& Half of a 46 Begin's peace 1 Quibble comedy team mate 2 Donizetti 28 Brews, in 47 Intellection heroine Barcelona product 
3Couch 4 Perform again ·5 Cinders of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
comics & Football two-pointers 22 An original 33 Carefree like 4& Eschars

7 Second Roman mo. sinner Wong? 48The same j 
a Slants 21 Missile's 
34"-cinthe 49 Use an ingress I Wind," 1956film
1 Pierre's annual forward part so A May l 
37 Post, Odom et birthstone
income 
27 "Casablanca" 

10 Axel ike tool heroine et al. 
40Penn name 54 Fusses

..,..;=+:::+:'-!~::-••t::-~-=+:+.:-1 11 Pen name for 
29-Sperry, 

i
42 Cut into thirds 55 Equivocate
actor Richard? 
aeronautics 

44 Sinks 57 Comprehend
12 Power pioneer 13lce-hockey 
30 Kind of box team Answers to any three clues in this 
31 Actor Romero 

-:-+.+.:::+=i 18 Fielding and puzzle are available by touch-tone 

a sea of IB3llrncs by wearing 
Purcbaae youra today for only $10 from your Hal~ tile student Gov't
J-JEC Office, or tbe Alumni Aaaociation. Let•a Show the World our True Colora!
JlttTosta£ 

.....~ .. -....­

----------~----------------~------------------------------~------------------------------------------~ 
/!)0 (IIt:U 'U Ll f-C '-' XC E. L'L'.0 I!C.O 
SPELUNKER 

GtO TO Tll f 81'1 R IIHD BY OOrtSfLVeS AU. Tlt6
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 8fAU11F'VL r.JiJMEN liND l'll/lr:J/<16! CO/IIIIIeAIJ5 141:£ IIIII N1S AlE • 115 noGJifESS/V£/.."1 
::,~~ 
WE CLJN(INUETfJ:!I 
THIS CELIBIICY trvltL? WH'I! 


Menotti 32"-under phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each heroines God ..." minute). 
JAY HOSLER 
/JECAV5E IT'S II S 'lOSE .1S Eml~ OF 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON
fJS Witt.. Ef/EK COJ"& 

r~ G.E'rf'III'~E ~. 

)l 


• 


f 
Sports 
page 24 Friday, September 6, 1991 
'91 football season kicks off tomorrow vs. I.U. 
Culver and Bettis to lead a talented group of backs 
By RENE FERRAN switch. preseason. He has been Associate Sports Editor "He'll still play at both posi­hampered by a muscle pull this tions," he said. MHe's a very fall, but is ready to go for Traditionally, one of the versatile player. He's got the Saturday's opener against 
strengths of the Notre Dame strength to play at fullback, the Indiana. football team has been its run­speed and quickness to play at MThe thing· I like most about ning game. tailback, and he's intelligent Jerome is his personality," Beck 
Crowley, Layden, Lattner and enough to handle assignments said. MHis enthusiasm has im­Pinkett are but some of the at both positions." pressed me the most, both on names who have starred in the Culver is the only captain for and off the field. He comes to Irish backfield. Notre Dame this season, a tes­play every day. He's 100 per­
This year's corps of running tament to his leadership abili­cent a team player." backs should uphold that tradi­ties and the respect he's gar­Senior Tony Brooks, recover­tion. nered from his teammates. ing from ankle surgery in June, MI've been very pleased with Beck, however, would like to has been "a pleasant surprise" 
what I've had the opportunity to see his tailback voice his opin­for Beck during fall drills. work with," said first-year ion more as well as lead by ex­MHe has the ability to play ei­running backs coach Tom Beck. ample. ther tailback or fullback," the 
What he's had is quite a lot. "It would be helpful, and to coach said. "He's got power, 
At tailback will be senior his benefit, to express his feel­strength, speed. He has excel­Rodney Culver, who started ings verbally," Beck said. lent hands catching the ball. nine games at fullback last. sea­Replacing Culver at fullback is He's going to see a lot of ac­son. Culver has not played sophomore Jerome Bettis. Like tion." much tailback since high Culver, a Detroit product, Bettis Younger brother Reggie has 
school, but the Irish captain has played in 10 games last season been moved back to tailback made the transition quite easily while quickly moving into the after playing in the secondary during the off-season. backup slot to Culver. But now throughout the 1990 season. As 
MWith my God-given abilities, the job is all his, and he likes a freshman, Brooks saw limited I can move back and forth to the feeling. action in six games. either position," Culver said. MI "It puts a lot of pressure on "Reggie has a knack for cut­think, though, that I can do me, but it's pressure that I need ting and spinning," Beck said. more for the team and show­so I can develop as a fullback," "He's had a good fall to date." case myself individually better Bettis said. Another player returning to at tailback." A punishing runner inside the the offensive backfield from the 
Beck also has no doubts about tackles, Bettis has been working see BACKS I page 17 Culver's ability to make the on his blocking technique in the 
Men's soccer to play Michigan; frosh get trial by fire in scrimmage 
By MIKE SCRUDATO cal team," said Irish coach By DAVE McMAHON game to make some changes have the chance to be the foun­Sports Writer Chris Petrucelli, "They will be a Associate Sports Editor and try some different things." dation of the program," said good challenge for our season 
While freshmen dominate the Berticelli, who unveils his first opener." Unfortunately for the Notre squad, the second-year coach recruiting class in the team's The Notre Dame women's Dame men's soccer team, the expects the upperclassmen to season opener at •home against soccer team hopes to duplicate Mercyhurst's scoring attack NCAA implemented some rule help develop the rookies into Loyola Tuesday night. last year's outstanding season is led by Veronica Sansom, their 
when they open the 1991 cam­
changes last year that delayed collegiate-level players. all-time leading scorer. the start of the season from "The juniors and seniors have One of the most prominent paign against the Mercyhurst September 1 to September 7. accepted their roles," said newcomers expected to con­College Lady Lakers tomorrow "Veronica is simply a threat 
Fortunately for coach Mike Berticelli. "They've shown tribute is Chris Dean, who morning at 10 a.n'L at Alumni to score at any time," said Berticelli, the Irish get a tune­leadership through their per­played on the United States Field. Mercyhurst head coach Trevor up for the grinding season formance-letting the young Under-18 team during the This season the Irish hope to Warren, "A defense cannot re­Saturday by hosting Michigan at players see the intensity they summer against European show that last year's 16-3-1 lax for a second if she is within Moose Krause Stadium in a 10 need to play with in college soc­teams. Dean could be put in the record and number nine rank­striking range of the goal." 
a.m. scrimmage. cer." spotlight quickly after spending ing in the Central Region poll l>roviding the offensive spark the summer playing against were just the beginning of Notre Dame will counter with 
Because the Irish are ex­once again for the Irish is junior some professional-caliber Notre Dame's success in Susie Zilvitis, their all-time pected to start six or seven Kevin Pendergast, who has led players in Italy and France. women's soccer. However, even leading scorer and tri-captain, freshman, Berticelli searched the squad in goals for the past "We expect him to come on with ten returning starters, it and Alison Lester, last year's for the opportunity to get a two seasons. Senior wingbacks and show leadership immedi­will not be easy. leading scorer. glimpse of the squad before and co-captains Kenyon Meyer ately," said Berticelli. "When we need a big goal 
.. 
starting regular season action . and Brett Hoffman, along with From what Berticelli has seen Mercyhurst, ranked sixth in she [Susie] will get it," 
MThis scrimmage is something Pendergast, should have no thus far from his team, the Irish the ISAA Division II Preseason Petrucelli said of Zilvitis, "She's we contrived," said Berticelli, problem keeping their starting have what it takes to begin Poll, is the first of seven ranked quick and effective and she will who replaced Dennis Grace in positions, but the remaining making strides toward national opponents on the Irish's 1991 get the job done." the coaching position before spots will likely be filled with acclaim. schedule. The Lady Lakers 
last season. MHaving such a inexperienced freshmen. "We're very, very pleased with posted a 17-2-3 record in 1990; Though both teams boast ex­
young team, we decided to It's an opportunity that the way things are going," said the best in the nation. This perienced offenses, this game scrimmage on the seventh as brought many of them to play year they have their sights set 
see WOMEN I page 18 

opposed to playing a regular for Notre Dame. see MEN I page 22 on a national championship. MMercyhurst is a strong physi­
season match just to give us one "Kids that come know they
• New faces and old combine for a strong line 
By DAVE McMAHON Irish last season, but snagged have the bulk needed for a "And that's proven to be valu­. Associate Sports Editor the starting position after a lineman. able to me these past two successful spring campaign. MI came in as a freshman at years." 
If you use experience as a Replacing three-year starter 240 lbs., and you just can't play Because of a considerably barometer, Notre Dame's of­Ryan, if not impossible, is tackle in major college football less-experienced left side of the fensive line must be considered improbab-le, but given some at that size," said Knapp. "It line, Moore believes the return­the greatest asset for the Irish playing time, Taylor (6-4, 280) gave me some time to hit the ing starters-Jurkovic, football team. The loss of center should handle his role well. weights and build myself up to McGuire, and Hall-have a duty Tim Ryan and guard Mike Heldt While Taylor will get the start where I needed to be." to be aware of changing de­provides a sizable gap to fill, against Indiana, sophomore He seems to be making the fenses. but with four seniors and a Tim Ruddy (6-3, 275) will see most of the opportunity. "Those three have to be the sophomore anchoring the line, action as well. "Lindsay had a good fall camp first to recognize any adjust­the Irish should be able to pro­Senior Gene McGuire (6-4, and he's playing with some ments we need to make during duce an effective offensive 286), after handling last year's intensity that he hasn't shown the game," said Moore. threat. starting role at tackle, returns before," said fourth-year "Indiana's defense is going to 
Senior guard and potential to his original position of center. offensive line coach Joe Moore. show us something we've never All-America Mirko Jurkovic (6-The Sporting News ranked After playing a backup role seen before, and they have to 
pearances as a sophomore, the
4, 289 lbs.) heads the corps of McGuire tenth among centers for most of three years, Knapp be able to recognize that 
nationally. · waiting's over for senior has seen from his predecessors
three returning starters. quickly."
Lindsay Knapp (6-6, 271), who what he needs to accomplish for 
Jurkovic, listed in the preseason Senior Justin Hall (6-4, 297) Spring play allowed Knapp
gets the start at quick tackle. success.
as the top guard in the nation returns to tackle despite miss­and Taylor to familiarize them­
Watching from the sidelines "I was able to learn from
by The Sporting News, is joined ing spring practice because of selves with each other, and the 
back surgery. wasn't the scenario Knapp had those years when I was watch­
at guard by Aaron Taylor, who hoped for during his first two ing All-America Andy Heck and 

played in two games for the After seeing no action in his see UNE I page 18 
years, but he realized he didn't
freshman year and limited ap-Mike Brennan," said Knapp. 



Lindsay Knapp 




