
!...!? 08/15/9:l Zl ·;;!9' SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 
• D If( 
HESBURGH LIBRARY 
V, ::!. 31 -;F g''j' 
NOTRE DAME 
FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 8, 1991
VOL XXIII NO 89 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SUFR holds march at Board talks 
By FLORENTINE HOELKER 
AND ALICIA REALE 
News Writers 
A group representing Stu­dents United For Respect (SUFR) holding signs, chanting and singing, held a demonstra­tion during the Board of Trustees meeting Thursday afternoon. 
The group assembled in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion before the trustees entered around noon. They held signs and began the demonstration in order to focus attention on "the serious issue of the demands" SUFR has set, said a member of the group. 
"We hope this demonstration will have an effect," said SUFR member Corey Collins. "If any­one can make a change they (the Board of Trustees) can." 
"This is a demonstration to let the Board of Trustees know what's going on since the Ad­ministration has given us the run-around," said Michele Steele, another member of SUFR. She said the Administra­tion has been procrastinating for years. 
"We want cultural diversity," she said. "We are here for visi­bility purposes·...something needs to be done here." 
Among the issues considered by the Board of Trustees was a report on race relations, which included aspects of intellectual and economic life. It also dis-
see SUFR I page 4 


Sunny dispositions 
Unusually balmy February temperatures brought smiles to the faces of Saint Mary's Juniors Jen Koch (left) and Shanna Randolph, standing near Saint Mary's Pond Thursday. 


Board talks on reports 

By ALICIA REALE 
News Writer 
The Board of Trustees Student Affairs 
Committee met yesterday to hear Student 
Government recommendations regarding 
cultural diversity, social. academic and 
publication concerns. 
The committee for the Challenge of Diversity Report on Racial Relations was represented by Gina Mahony, chairperson of the report committee. She said the committee's aim was "to eradicate the current stagnation in the growth of cultural diversity at Notre Dame." 
The committee had several recommendations which spanned many areas for the Board of Trustees. Financial aid to Ethnic American students is crucial, according to Mahony. Funding for the vari­ous Ethnic American organizations on campus needs to be increased as the membership and interest grows, she added. 
Mahony also stressed the need for a multicultural center for students of all races and an improved Office of Minority Student Affairs. The committee also emphasized the importance of hiring more Ethnic American faculty and staff and instituting a broader­based curriculum. 
The Board of Trustees agreed that financial aid is underfunded. They said they are aware of the problem and have received several monetary gifts which will be used for financial aid. 
The Trustees said no one should have to withdraw from Notre Dame for financial reasons, such as increased tuition. Adjustments for loans and work-study need to be made, said the Board. 
The Board of Trustees said they feel there exists a heightened sensitivity towards racial relations at Notre Dame, and said they support the committee's recommendations in the Challenge of 
see REPORT/ page 4 

Allies continue heavy bombing; U.S. officials fly to Gulf 
DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -In endless hours of air strikes, U.S. and allied pilots rocked Baghdad, key bridges and the bunkers of front-line troops Thursday, and blew two more Iraqi "getaway jets" out of the sky. 
A second veteran U.S. battle­ship joined in the bombardment of Iraqi-held Kuwait. 
The pounding was having an impact. Returning pilots told of a devastated landscape in Kuwait, and journalists near the border found first-hand ev­idence -four Iraqi soldiers who turned themselves in mut­tering over and over about the "bombing ... bombing ... bomb­ing." 
But Desert Storm losses mounted, too. A U.S. Navy FA­18 Hornet fighter went down in the northern Persian Gulf, ap­parently not from hostile tire, and an Army helicopter crashed in Saudi Arabia. The Navy pilot was missing; one soldier was killed and four were wounded in the helicopter accident. 
President Bush's two top war advisers -Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and joint chiefs chairman Gen. Colin Powell ­flew to the gulf to confer over the weekend with local com­manders on the countdown to a ground offensive, a momentous 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
• 
U.S. civilian shot I page 7 

• 
Religion and war I page 7 


clash between a half-million or more men on each side. 
"Our hope is that we can wrap it up as soon as possible, to minimize the loss of life on all sides," the defense secretary said before he left. 
The commander of British forces in Operation Desert Storm, Lt. Gen. Peter de Ia Bil~ liere, told reporters he believes "the land war is inevitable." A 
U.S. command spokesman dis­puted the use of "inevitable." But up on the northern desert line, U.S. troops had little doubt. 
"This could get very ugly at any moment," one officer told a reporter visiting the Saudi-Kuwaiti front. That view found high-level support in France, where President Francois Mit­terrand told reporters: "The ground battle promises to take place ... this month." 
Miles from the wind-whipped front, some clung to hopes for peace. In Tehran, Turkey's for­eign minister met with Presi­dent Hashemi Rafsanjani to discuss the Iranian leader's of­fer to mediate between Iraqi President Saddam Hussein and the international alliance ar­rayed against him. A Soviet en­voy also was to meet with Ira­nian officials. 
The Bush administration says there is nothing to mediate: Saddam must simply announce a withdrawal from Kuwait. 
But Saddam showed no signs of surrender. Iraq launched one of its largely ineffective Scud missiles early Friday at Riyadh. Like an estimated 17 others fired previously at the Saudi capital, it was intercepted by a 
U.S. Patriot missile. The wreckage landed in a parking lot and caused no injuries or major damage, witnesses said. 
Allied warplanes battered Baghdad for 12 hours from Wednesday night to Thursday morning, Associated Press cor­respondent Salah Nasrawi re­ported from the Iraqi capital. 
He said at least 10 homes were destroyed or heavily dam-

,......:..· 
0 
Baghdad 
IRAQ 

SAUDI

!·/ ~/---ARABIA
J,l· F 
. -~ 

In Kuwait:
f' 


Iraq is moving 
anti-artillery guns 
into civilian 
The USS Wisconsin aims its neighborhoods in 
16-inch guns at an IraqiKuwait City and 
artillery position in Kuwait. Baghdad to deter allied strikes against the weapons. 
As of 7a.m. EST AP 

aged, and Iraqi authorities said 22 civilians were killed. Ramsey Clark, the former 
U.S. attorney general and peace activist who is in Baghdad this week, told reporters that residential damage showed the U.S. air war exceeded the mandate of 
U.N. Security Council Resolu­tion 678, which authorized the use of force to expel Iraq from Kuwait. 
"You don't have to bomb ci­ties. It has nothing to do with resolution 678," he said. 
see GULF/ page 7 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Gulf War 
games make 



death ...fun! 
"A Line in the Sand,"------­"Gulf Strike," "Arabian 
Nightmare: Kuwait War." No, these aren't the titles of news programs analyzing the war in the Persian Gulf, these are the 

names of board games based on the Gulf War. Robyn You've seen the picture, Simmons now play the game! 
Last Thursday, The Observer ran an article with the headline, "Gulf war creates booming business for some toy and game makers." The article described how several military game manufacturers were making a nice profit selling board game versions of the Gulf War. 
According to the article, these military games are aimed at older customers, and the prices range from $30 to $40. Maybe these games are more popular with older customers because they are too old to fight in the real thing. 
What fun it must be to pretend that you're blasting away a platoon of cardboard Iraqi soldiers. When the battle's over, you just slide the little guys back in the box and turn on the TV to catch the second half of Cheers. Just like the real thing. 
Since a growing number of civilians seem to want a piece of the action, how about some suggestions for a few more board games, all packed with gritty realism. 
"Body Bag Bingo": It's a battle simulation game that requires players to consider what actually happens to the soldiers who don't make it. The side with the most empty body bags at the end of the battle wins the game. 
"'Operation' Desert Storm": it's just like the "Operation" game you used to play as a kid, but instead of removing the patient's funny bone and Adam's apple, you get to take out shrapnel. Whoever leaves the operating room with the most limbs wins the game. 
"Fat Cats": Every player represents a dif­ferent oil company. The object of the game is to get all the way around the board, taking advantage of the crisis in the Persian Gulf in order to make a huge profit. Each space represents another leap in gas prices even as the price of oil goes down. The player with the most money wins. 
Are these suggested board games tasteless and offensive? Of course they are. So are the board games that are already on the market. It is offensive that anyone would think of turning such a tragedy into a game. 
But board games are just an example of how this entire war has been turned into a game. We get to see how a bomb hits its target on a hi-tech radar screen, but we don't get to see what happens to the people who just happened to be in the wrong place when the bombs fell. 
War isn't about American flags and yellow ribbons. It isn't about high-tech Scuds and Patriots either. It's about young people finding themselves miles away from home fighting for their lives as shellfire explodes around them. Ask any combat veteran who's been there. It's not a game. 
Thursday's Staff Production Usa Eaton 
News 
Wendy CunninghamPeter Loftus Michelle WoodSiobhan McCarthy 
SystemsAccent 
Cesar CapellaRobyn Simmons Paul Froning
Charmaine Martinez Michelle Devers 
Circulation
Paul Pearson Bill O'Rourke 
Matt Novak
Sports 
Rolando de Aguiar 
VIewpointKen Tysiac Michael Krause 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, February 8, 1991
The Observer 

Forecast for noon, Friday.·February 8 Unes Sl1l)w high tempetatlUesWEATHER REPORT : :. <::7,: 0 High ~r·lliJ shoYfera~ Thun~ sn~.(f Sunny ~ -tic1t~m ()•• ~~"~... ~ Rain ·f:J. Flui'rift .0 Ice a Cloudy 1t'11~1 ~"~~line;  ~ ~oudy  FORECAST: Sunny and warmer Friday, with a high in • the lower 50s. Fair Friday night, with lows in the lower 30s. Mostly sunny and cooler Saturday, with highs in the lower 40s. TEMPERATURES: City H L Athens 54 39 Atlanta 58 48 Bertin 27 07 Boston 42 39 Chicago 38 30 Dallas-Ft. Worth 66 38 Denver 58 25 Detroit 36 35 Honolulu 82 65 Houston 69 45 Indianapolis 35 31 London 25 19 Los Angeles 65 53 Madnd 54 36 Miami Beach 79 67 New Orleans 66 54 Moscow 23 16 New York 44 40 Pans 18 10 Philadelphia 51 46 Portland, Ore. 58 37 Rome 45 30 St. Louis 39 33 San Francisco 69 51 South Bend 36 31 Tokyo 54 37 Washington,D.C. 54 46  
TODAY AT AGLANCE  

WORLD 
Cambodian g•1errillas agree to talks 
• BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) -Cambodia's three-party guerrilla coalition said Thursday it has agreed to new talks with the pro-Vietnamese government in Phnom Penh on a U.N. peace plan the government has partly rejected. Leaders of the three groups met with Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas in Bangkok Monday and agreed to his proposal for new talks in 
Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, a coalition statement said. 

NATIONAL 
Coca-Cola Poisoning Case on trial 
• BARTOW, Fla. (AP) -Eight years of arguments over loud music, yelping dogs and other aggravations esca­lated into murder when a man tried to commit "the perfect crime" by poisoning his neighbors' Coca-Cola, a 

OF INTEREST 
• 
Logan Center Volunteers, come bowling this afternoon or to a dance tonight. Van pick-ups for the dance are at 6:45 p.m. and 7:10 p.m. at Holy Cross at SMC or 6:50 p.m. and 7:15 p.m. at the Main Circle ND. Tomorrow come on out and see animals at Endangered Animal Rec. Van pick-ups at 8:30 a.m. Holy Cross, SMC and 8:45a.m. at Main Circle ND. Questions? Call Janet Kunst 284-5090 or Sally Greene 283-3783. 

• 
The Hispanic American Organization will have a bus going to a Spanish Mass at Sna Estevan's on Sunday morning. Pick up times will be approximately 8:45 a.m. at the Library Circle and 8:50a.m. at the Main Circle. 

• 
JPW news: Juniors, pick up registration packets on Monday, February 11 or Tuesday, February 12 in the Sorin Room in Lafortune between 6 and 10 p.m. 

• 
Sophomore class mass for peace will be held this Sunday at 11:45 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church, in con-


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 7, 1991 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 
292.19 Million 194.74 • 0.64 

S&P COMPOSITE lL 356.52 v 1.55 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,820.64 .. 20.30 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD t-$4.90 to$ 367.80oz. SILVER • 3.6¢ to$ 3.799/oz. 
prosecutor said. Jurors deliberated charges against George Trepal of first-degree murder, six counts of attempted first-degree murder and product tampering Thursday. Trepal, a 42-year-old computer programmer and MENSA high-IQ club member was accused of spiking an eight-pack of Coca-Cola bottles in October 1988 with thallium nitrate. Peggy Carr, 41, lapsed into a three­month coma and died after sipping the soft drink. 

CAMPUS 
Student awarded $500 scholarship 
• Jody Armetta, a 20-year-old student at Notre Dame, has been awarded a $500 scholarship by Vector Marketing Corporation as a result of outstanding sales achievements while working as a sales representative with the company's Rolling Meadows, Illinois, district office. 
junction with the regular service. Come early to get a seat in the section reserved for Sophomores. 
• 
Attention seniors interested in a year of volunteer work. Representatives from Eucharistic Ministries will be on campus Monday, February 11-Thursday, Frebruary 14. Come meet Sister Dorothy and Sister Carol to discuss the options available to you. They will be in the library concourse from 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and in the Center for Social Concerns from 1-5 p.m. each day. 

• 
Right-to-life of ND/SMC will sponsor a peaceful picket and demonstration today at the South Bend abor­tion clinic. Meet at the Main Circle at either 2:15 p.m. or 3:15p.m. Transportation and signs will be provided. 

• 
International Student Organization extends an open invitation to its International Festival, which will be held at Washington Hall, Saturday February 9th at 7:30 p.m. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
lr1 1587: Mary, Queen of Scots, was beheaded at Fotheringhay Castle in England after she was implicated in a plot to kill her cousin, Queen Elizabeth I. 

• 
In 1904: The Russo-Japanese War began as Japan besieged Port Arthur in Manchuria. 

• 
In 1968: Three college students were killed in a confrontation with highway· patrolmen in Orangeburg, S.C., during a civil rights protest against a whites-only bowling alley. 

• 
In 1980: President Carter unveiled a plan to re-introduce draft registration, a proposal that included women as well as men. 

• 
Five years ago: Twenty-nine people were killed and 93 were injured when a passenger train and a freight train collided in the Canadian province of Alberta. In Yonkers, N.Y., secretary Diane Elsroth, 23, died after taking a Tylenol capsule tainted with cyanide. 


Friday, February 8, 1991 The Observer page 3 
Student committee submits report on media, social life 
By NATASHA WILSON financial matters for many 
News Writer campus media. "While these are required and important duties, they do not represent
Student government 
the true educational focus of an 
presented a follow-up report on experience in a student media campus media, student social 
organization," the follow-up
life. off-campus students and report says.
Freshmen Year of Studies to The committee recommends 
the Student Affairs Committee the University hire media advi­
of the Board of Trustees 
sors with journalism experi­
Thursday. 
ence. The advisors could serve 
The report notes the progress as consultants on the quality of 
of recommendations in four 
content rather than act only as previous student government liaisons for campus media, the reports and highlights new de­
report says. The advisors 
velopments and suggestions. 
should not have censorship
said follow-up report Chairman powers, Cocks said. 
Raja Singh. 
Last spring, the American Student government 
Studies department cancelled 
presented a report to the Board 
its journalism concentration. 
on campus media in November Many students involved in cam­1989. The follow-up report pus media choose that major
addresses campus media's for its journalism courses. 
relationship with the 
While American Studies majors
Administration, media can still take the writing
advisement, a proposed jour­courses within the department,nalism curriculum and the op­they no longer receive priorityerations of campus radio sta­during registration for journal­tion WVFI. 
ism courses in the Communica­
"The committee finds the me­
tion and Theater or English de­
dia's relationship to the Admin­
partments. alternatives to drinking instead istration to be the most press­The committee recommends of adopting a stricter alcohol ing issue in the area of campus the University develop a jour­policy.
media," said Alison Cocks, 
nalism concentration that in­
committee member and The 
corporates the resources of The original report suggestedObserver Editor-in-Chief. The 
several departments in the Col­the University convert Observer, which is independent lege of Arts and Letters. Since Theodore's into a "coffee and student run, "is the only the concentration would have house" for students to relax 
student media organization 
no affiliation with a particular and socialize. The Office of that enjoys the uncensored en­department, it would not sacri­Student Activities will evaluate vironment that the Committee fice the University's liberal arts the future of Theodore's this 
advocates," the report says. 
focus, Cocks said. spring, Student Body President Scholastic and other media or­The committee also suggests Rob Pasin said. The follow-up
ganizations administered 
that the University upgrade the report cites the recent openingthrough the Office of Student broadcast system of WVFI to of the LaFortune basement into Activities are under the Admin­improve the radio station's re­a 24-hour lounge as a positiveistration's guidance, Cocks said. 
ception on campus. step.
The committee recommends 
The follow-up report's "Social At the October Board of that "the Administration and life" section focuses on alcohol Trustees meeting, Pasin and 
student media organizations 
dependence and campus adver­Fred Tombar, Student Bodybegin a meaningful dialougue tising. In November 1988, stu­Vice President, proposed the 
to clarify the environment in 
dent government submitted to University build a Student 
which the media operates. 
the Board a report on Notre Complex to enhance the social 
This environment should be 
Dame student social life. life at Notre Dame. 
free of censorship so that all 
"We firmly believe that it is The 1988 report on student media organizations can better not the presence of alcohol that social life cited a need for a 
serve the student body and 
is the problem, the lack of al­centralized advertising medium 
develop their professional 
ternatives to drinking is the to inform the Notre Dame and responsibility." 
problem," the report states. Saint Mary's communities of 
The Office of Student Activi­
The committee recommends campus events. Peter Lom­
ties handles administrative and 
the University create social bardo, associate directer of the 

Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
News Editor Advertising Manager Sports Editor Ad Design Manager Accent Editor Production Manager Viewpoint Editor OTSManager Saint Mary's Editor Controller Photo Editor Art Director Systems Manager 
A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 2 p.m. Friday, February 8. 

0 
Center for Continuing Educa-dealing with landlords, South 
tion, recently developed the Bend police and the Office of 
"Calendar Office," which will Student Affairs. Many off­
dissemiate information on campus students don't know 
campus events. their rights and responsibilities, 
The office will distribute news explained Triona Byrne, of campus activities through a committee member and off­weekly calendar, a telephone campus student. information line and computer Since the residence hall is the terminals in the library and source of information for most LaFortune. If the Provost's students, the Committee rec­Office approves funding for ommends the off-campus direc­Lombardo's proposal, the Cal-tor start a monthly newsletter endar Office will open next fall. for off-campus students. 
"Since the original Board of Trustees report was filed in The Freshman Year of Studies 1989, little has been done to section of the follow-up report improve the three main areas includes an update on peer ad­of off-campus student life that vising, including last semester's the report recognized: housing, pilot program "Guidance and crime, and communication Orientation for Long-germ De­from the University," the fol­velopment (G.O.L.D.). G.O.L.D. low-up report says. consisted of groups of fresh­
The position of "Off-Campus men, led by a sophomore, ju­Housing Director" in the Office nior or senior, that met weekly of Residence Life (ORL) has for discussions and social activ­been vaccant this academic ities. year. The Committee recom­About 75 percent of the mends the ORL fill that position freshmen participated in the and expand its responsibilities. program. The original Fresh­
The follow-up report suggests men Year of Studies report to that the off-campus director the Board of Trustees last disseminate information on February recommended the crime prevention, campus G.O.L.D. program. activities and South Bend The pilot program, funded by residential issues. The director student government, will be should also advise students on evaluated in March. 

page 4 The Observer 





Report 
continued from page 1 
Diversity Report. 
The Board of Trustees Stu­dent Affairs Committee devoted the other half of the meeting to a follow-up report from past meetings addressing the topics of campus media, social life, off-campus students and Freshman year of studies. 
Campus media was repre­sented by Alison Cocks, The Observer editor-in-chief. Among other recommendations, Cocks said the committee recommended that a journalism con­centration, unaffiliated with any department, be created within the College of Arts and Letters. The American studies department had previously dropped its journalism concen­tration. 
"We are anxious to take re­sponsibility for publications," Cocks said. 
Scott Harris, S.U.B. director of Programming, represented the Social life Committee. Har­ris said the committee recom­mends that social alternatives to drinking would be more ef­fective than making the alcohol policy stricter. 
The Board of Trustees ex­pressed reservations about the proposal to build a student complex for social purposes. They said an alcohol-free cen­tral social place might become a 'white elephant,' as students would prefer to remain in the residence halls. 

The committee for off-cam­pus students advises more communication between stu­dents and campus by hiring a resource person to provide this "vital link" said Triona Byrne, committee member and off­campus student. There is also a need to implement an ofT-cam­pus ratings system to inform students about the condition of housing according to Byrne. 
The follow-up report also recommends that something be done to increase safety off­campus. They proposed an ex­tension of NO Security off­campus or funding the South Bend police to help prevent at­tacks, according to Byrne. 
Patricia O'Hara, director of Student Affairs, explained the jurisdictional problems of im­plementing security ofT-campus by extending NO Security. O'Hara also said that funding the South Bend police could not work, yet she added, "We're exploring opportunities." 
O'Hara explained an idea of a joint attempt by the Univer­sity and South Bend to create a safe route that the police be committed to patrolling. Stu­dents would then be advised to utilize this path. 
The Trustees responded to these follow-up reports by stating they must be careful not to step into the line of the ad­ministration. These reports are read by the entire Board of Trustees and each committee makes a report each October, February and May. 
of Security Chuck Hurley said members of security are always present at Board of Trustees meetings. 
"We had no advance warning of the demonstration," Hurley said. There were no problems, and it was a "peaceful and orderly" demonstration, he said. 
SUFR 
continued from page 1 
cussed the racial harassment policy. 
One member of the Trustees commented on the demonstra­tion, "This is what a university 
SCRANTON, Pa. (AP) -A former top aide to U.S. Attorney General Richard Thornburgh was convicted Thursday of using cocaine and lying about it when applying for a security clearance. 
Henry Barr, 47, was the high­est ranking present or former federal official ever convicted of drug charges, Assistant U.S. Attorney Gordon Zubrod said. 
The verdict sends a message "that those who are charged with enforcing the law ought not violate it. They ought to be prosecuted," Zubrod said. 
Barr. who worked at the Justice Department from September 1988 to May 1989, faces up to 12 ·years in prison and fines of $510,000. He re­vealed no emotion when the verdict was read. 
U.S. District Judge Edwin Kosik said he would schedule sentencing later. 
Barr was convicted of con­spiracy to possess cocaine, co­caine possession and two counts of making false state­ments to the government. 
His attorney, Charles Scarlata, promised an appeal. 
Barr's case was part of a nearly two-year investigation of white-collar professionals in the Harrisburg area. Zubrod 

IMMIGRATION LAW PRACTICIONERS 
Paul Catherine 
GRESK SINGLETON 
1800 INB Tower lndion~is, IN 46204 (317) 634-9777 
lniliol in-office consultolion no charge rooltt1ingud c~ilies 

is all about," said Tony Early, the Board of Trustees chair of student affairs. "We are sym­pathetic to the group." 
The group held signs pro­claiming "NO really means No Diversity," "Our demands are reasonable and necessary," and "1842: zero percent minority, 
said the investigation was not over. 
The government's main wit­ness in Barr's case, former state prosecutor Richard Guida, pleaded guilty last year to one count of cocaine distribution. Kosik also must sentence him. 
Another former state prose­cutor, W. Michael Trant, pleaded guilty to one count of cocaine possession. He did not testify against Barr. 
A doctor, a stockbroker and an investment banker also have 
The Freshman Year of Stud­ies section of the follow-up re­port focused on improvements in the peer advisory program. This program is designed to help ease the student's transi­tion from high school to college. The past program of 1989-90 was unsuccessful due to its 



Pa. official guilty of drug charges 

impersonal facilitation, said Lynn Ramsay, executive coordinator of Student Life and former president of the Fresh­man Class Council. 
The new program will be evaluated in March and if fa­vorable will be made available to all Freshmen she said. 
..,
~ 

"kke ~ ad. utt ~ ad. U4d. ~· 
' ACCESSORIES -REPAIRS -LESSONS 
--: ........ --~ 
Mendoza$
t GUITARS -~ 
..-. rJI ............. I Y411 .,._. 
GUITARS -AMPS 
CRATE -ALVAREZ -YAMAHA WESTONE -TAYLOR 
\.. 

1991: 1 percent minority fac­ulty. What progress!" Some signs were in Spanish, and a number of signs were labeled with the various demands of SUFR. 
While marching in the CCE with their signs, the group chanted "S-U-F-R, respect!" 
been charged in the investiga­tion. 
Thornburgh made an ap­pearance on the witness stand Tuesday to explain why Barr was given access to classified documents before a full back­ground investigation was con­ducted. 
Thornburgh said the move was not unusual since Barr indicated he had not used drugs or had not had other problems that would have made him unsuited for such access. 
241 DIXIE WAY N ·US 33 (OLD 31) ( one mile north of ) St. Mary·s College Roseland 
....
-• 

MON ·FRI. 1200 NOON· 6 pm CALL for SAT. hours 
I 272-7510 I 
DICK WISNER . OWNER ~ 
HAPPY 21st KITTY DE:tvfAND! 
HAVE ASTELLAR NIGHT, BUT DON..T MAKE ASPECTACLE OF YOURSELF! 
Love-Clark, HazeL Switch, N ikky 
andMiz 
and "What do we want? Re­spect! When do we want it? Now!" 
SUFR members planned to continue demonstrating until the trustees disassembled at the conclusion of the meeting, around 4 p.m. 
Members of NO Security were 
Assistant Director

I

II" ~(~  ROCFLERSORBIE PHOFESSIONAL PRODUCTS  PHONE (219) 233-4957  
ROCco·g STYl[ SHOP 531 N. MICHIGAN ST. APPOINTMENTS OR WALK-IN  

MEN & WOMENS STYLING CUTS-PERMANENTS-COLOR 
Can you 
believe Julie ackoboice 
is 21??? 
1

·we c~n t t 
Love, Nora, Betsy, and Libby 
Hey Heather, As if celebrating after Michigan wasn't enough­now you're 21! Happy Birthday! 

Your friend, Susan 

The Observer page 5
Friday, February 8, 1991 







Students submit Board report on racial relations 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 

A report recommending ways to improve cultural diversity and promote positive racial relations at Notre Dame was presented to the Board of Trustees by Student Govern­ment Thursday. 
The report is titled "The Challenge of Diversity: A Report on Racial Relations at Notre Dame" and it "is not a study of racism. Rather, it is an exami­nation of the University's at­tempt to become more diverse," the report stated. 
Regina Mahony, chairperson of the ten-person student gov­ernment committee. empha­sized that the report is founded on an intellectual, academic basis, not on gut reactions. "Notre Dame is morally and ethically responsible" to ad­dress this issue, she said. 
The committee, which in­cluded leaders of ethnic organi­zations, members of student government, and other stu­dents, spent four months debat­ing issues and compiling the report, according to Mahony. 
The report was presented to the Board of Trustees, a group of corporate and professional leaders, but, said Mahony, the primary purpose is to serve as a vehicle to communicate with the administration. "Through the Board of Trustees, we're making a presentation to the administration," said Mahony. 

The presentation of the re­port was punctuated by a demonstration by Students United for Respect (SUFR) Thursday afternoon. "It was a show of concern for the re­port," said Student Body Presi­dent Rob Pasin. "I think it helped' the situation a lot, be­cause it helped the trustees see that it's a pressing issue." 
The committee analyzed a va­riety of aspects of University life from the perspective of ra­cial relations, and then voted on recommendations for changes. According to Mahony, after candid discussions and heated debates, the group reached a consensus on thirty­four recommendations. 
•Recruitment and Admis­sions. The report praised the efforts of administration to re­cruit more Ethnic American students (African Americans, Hispanics, Asian Americans, and American Indians) via mi­nority search letters, open house, and minority visitation weekend, which have produced a minority enrollment of 16 percent. The committee en­couraged the University to continue current practices. 
•Financial Aid. "A recent 
Census Bureau study indicates that white households in the United States have ten times the median wealth of African American households," according to the report. NO, however, provides only 25 percent of tuition for eligible students, on average, as opposed to other universities, which provide almost one-half. 
"They're losing outstanding minority students and out­standing white students be­cause of their inability to form a four-year commitment," said Mahony. 
The committee recommended that the University set specific goals regarding financial aid in the coming years, and that it commit itself to providing four­year plans to students, espe­cially minorities. 
• 
Intellectual Life. "The education of a Notre Dame student must not be limited to theory, but must have a real world practicality," according to the report. The committee recommended hiring a more culturally-diverse curriculum and a culturally-diverse faculty, through broad-based curricu­lum reform in all of the colleges and more support for Ethnic American faculty. 

•Residence 
Life. While "most students in the halls are com­fortable and pleased with the 


quality of life," according to the report, it was recommended that rectors of culturally di­verse backgrounds should be hired and that RAs should be given the responsibility of rais­ing awareness of the students through presentations. 
•Multicultural 
center. The committee felt that the Ethnic Americans on campus need a place in which they can find the support of advisors, ethnic clubs, and the comforts of a familiar environment. It was recommended that a task force be initiated to "investigate the possibilities of building a multi­cultural center" to provide "an informational, educational, multicultural outlet about di­verse cultures." 

•Campus 
Ministry. "It's espe­cially challenging," said Ma­hony, "for Ethnic American students that are not Catholic to develop their own spirituality on this campus. We believe there are ways for campus ministry to address their needs without compromising the Catholic identity of the Univer­sity." 


The group recommended that Campus Ministry hire an African American counselor and offer space in the Campus Ministry office for non-Catholic religious organizations. 
•The Harassment Policy. 
While acknowledging that the policy could not remedy all ra­cial tensions and that it must not violate the right of free speech, the committee recom­mended that the policy be adopted on all university levels and that the policy be included in the 1991-92 edition of du Lac. 
•The committee also recom­mended that the Office of Mi­nority Student Affairs be given more space and that an assis­tant be hired as soon as possi­ble. The report encouraged the University Counseling Center and alumni groups to address the needs of Ethnic Americans. 
The report included two sur­veys of white students and of Ethnic American students. While the quantitative results indicated no discrepancy be­tween the two groups, student comments emphasized "a lot of frustration out there on both sides," said Mahony. 
"I think the report is excel­lent," said Pasin. "I think it addressed all the issues in a thorough manner... it couldn't have been more timely." 
"I'm really, really pleased with it," said Mahony of the re­port. "It's a huge issue. Racism is sweeping across college campuses again and racial in­cidents are happening in higher proportions." 

ND/SMC accounting departments lend tax assistance 
By MATTHEW MILLER News Writer 
Accounting majors and pro­fessors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will volunteer their skills to help low-income residents of the Michiana re­gion complete their tax returns. 
From February 9 through April 15, approximately 80 stu­dents and six professors will participate in the Tax Assis­tance Program, offering their assistance on federal and state tax returns. Help is provided free of charge to all regional taxpayers whose annual in­comes do not exceed $22,000, including employees of the Uni­versity. 
The Tax Assistance Program was founded in 1972 by two Notre Dame graduate students and Professor Ken Milani, who continues to coordinate the program. Last year, thanks to the combined efforts of mem­bers of the ND/SMC community and local accounting firms, volunteers filed over 1,800 tax returns for about 1,000 tax­payers throughout the region. 
In order to appropriately train the volunteers, they are required to take "Introduction 
to Federal Taxation" (ACCT 
476) or an equivalent course at Saint Mary's, as well as eight hours of preparation specific to the Tax Assistance Program. The students, who receive one credit hour for their participa­tion, will work for one day each week for ten weeks at one of the nine program locations. 
Professor Milani emphasized the "~own and gown nature of the program." The Notre Dame community is reaching out to the region in an attempt to fur­ther University President Fa­ther Edward Malloy's vision of Notre Dame as "a better neigh­bor." 
Further information and questions about the Tax Assis­tance Program should be ad­dressed to Professor Ken Milani at 239-5296. 





JPWNEWS! 
The Weekend is Almost Here! 
Juniors: Registration packets for JPW will be available at the Sorin Room in LaFortune 
When? 

Monday February 11*6pm-lOpm Tuesday February 12*6pm-10pm All Juniors attending JPW must pick up their packets during the above hours. 
The Observer 

page 6 
Friday, February 8, 1991 


IRA explodes bomb near British prime minister 

Corrections 
On January 30, 1991, an item in the Of Interest column incor­rectly stated the University Counseling Center needed vol­unteers for counseling. It should have stated they need volunteers for Counseline. The Observer regrets the error. 
Tuesday's Observer article about Spike Lee's lecture stated the film "Do the Right Thing" was released by Paramount Pictures. It should have stated Paramount Pictures was sup­posed to release the film but did not after Lee refused to change the film's ending. Universal Pictures released the film. The Observer regrets the error. 

Clarification 
In Thursday's Observer arti­cle about the student govern­ment debate it was unclear that the ticket of Mark Kromkowski and Sam Nigro sent a representative to the debate. Stephen Kromkowski went to the debate and read a prepared statement including a quote from Cardinal John Henry Newman's "The Idea o the University." 

I.Buy4-\t>Sston~t the reguia71 I pnce and get 4 FREE • auy 5 I 1and get 5 FREE • Buy 6 and 1 
1__Ge_:_6~REE ~E2_THE~EA~ 1
-----'·--·L______ _
l){~ago llalr('u~~! 
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA 
NEXT TO VENTUR!: GAt..PE AD. MISHAWAKA 
. 277-7946 
Daily 9-8

I 
1___-=S.=.:a1:.:.:-9"-'-6=-•.....;S=.,u""n"-.1'--'1_,.-5'-----' 
LONDON (AP) -A mortar shell fired by the Irish Republi­can Army from an abandoned van exploded Thursday within 50 feet of Prime Minister John Major as he met with his War Cabinet, Scotland Yard said. 
Major and his colleagues were not injured in the attack near 10 Downing St., his office said. Three police officers and a civil servant were treated for minor injuries, a spokeswoman at Westminster Hospital said. 
It was the IRA's first mortar attack in Britain, though it has often used the weapon in Northern Ireland. · 
The IRA had not struck so close to the government since 1984, when Prime "Minister Margaret Thatcher narrowly escaped injury in a Brighton hotel bombing that killed five people. 
Major, who lives and works at 10 Downing Sy.. simply moved the War Cabinet meeting to another room and stuck to his daily schedule. He said in the House of Commons that the attack was deliberately timed "to kill the Cabinet and to do damage to our system of gov­ernment." 
"It is about time they learned that democracy cannot be in­timidated by terrorism and we rightly treat them with con­tempt," said Major. 


ND Alumni Assoc. to hold teleconference on marriage 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Alumni Association will host a 90-mlnute nationwide satellite tele-conference titled "From the Fifteenth to the Fiftieth Anniversary: Making a 
Marriage Work"  on  March  3  
beginning at 2 p.m. (EST).  
The  program will feature  a  

panel discussion emphasizing commitment in Christian mar­riages. It will also explore the manner in which the joys and catastrophes encountered by spouses are subsumed and transformed by the passion, death and resurrection of Christ. 
The program will also discuss how mutually honest conversa­tion between spouses can ease commonplace marital stresses, and how this can enrich and deepen their mutual fidelity. 
Panelists will be Father Michael Himes, associate pro­fessor of theology at Notre Dame; Patricia Livingston, as­sociate director for the Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry; and Reverend Freder­ick Pfotenhauer, a Lutheran minister and adjunct professor of theoJqgy at Notre Dame. 
The live, call-in program has 
been endorsed by the U.S. 
Catholic Bishops' division of 
Laity and Family Life and will 
be aired on affiliates of the 
Catholic Telecommunications 
Network (CTNA) and of the Vi­
sion Interfaith Satellite Net­
work (VISN). 
More than a hundred local 
Notre Dame alumni clubs will 
participate in the program. 
Several clubs are co-sponsoring 
the teleconference with local 
educational institutions, 
Catholic parishes and churches 
of other denominations. 
Coordinates for the tele-con­ference are Satcom F1R, Transponder 9 and Telstar 301, Transponder 9V (Channel 17, downlink frequency 404 MHz). 
Further information on the teleconference may be obtained from Kathleen Sullivan, direc­tor of alumni continuing educa­tion are 239-5112. 

Queen Elizabeth II, who sel­dom speaks on current events, mentioned the attackers while opening a London Hospital. "I would like to take this oppor­tunity to remind them that they will not succeed," the monarch said. 
The IRA attackers penetrated 
security  that  has  been  
tightened  because of Iraqi  
threats  of  terrorism.  

Commander George Qmrchili­Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist unit, ruled out any connection to the Gulf War. 
"There is no doubt in my mind ... that this is the work of the Irish republican terrorist groups and you should discount from your minds any connec­tion whatsoever with any Arab terrorist organizations," Churchill-Coleman told a news conference before the IRA claimed responsibility. Two other shells fired from 
the van fell near the Foreign Office and caught fire but did not fully explode, Churchill­Coleman said. 
He said the improvised mor­tar tubes were bolted to the floor of the van and the top had been cut away above. The van was in a no-parking zone just ofT busy Whitehall, the wide av­enue between Trafalgar Square and the Houses of Parliament. 
"The witnesses we have in­terviewed so far say the driver of the van locked the door, ran to a waiting motorcycle being ridden by a second person, and they both then made off." Churchill-Coleman said. 
"A police officer was about to approach the vehicle when the mortars were discharged," ap­parently detonated by a timer, he said. The van caught fire and burned furiously. 
Churchill-Coleman said police were seeking information about the van, which had been pur­ehased for cash in July. 

1991 ICEBERG DEBATES 
'That big-time athletics play adetrimental role in American colleges and universities.' 
IROUND ONE RESULTS I Feb. 5 Host dorm in italics 
AFFIRMATIVE PTS., VOTES NEGATIVE PTS., VOTES Sarin 80/75 0 Fisher 86/77 2 Morrissey 84/84 2 Siegfried · 70/66 0 Flanner 2 57/57 2 Grace 1 41/41 0 Breen-Phil/ips 74/78 2 Cavanaugh 73/77 0. St. Ed's 82/80 2 Zahm 69/74 0 Pasq. East 57/62 0 Lewis 74/84 2 Alumni 76/85 1 Lyons 80/76 1 Grace 2 76177 2 Carroll 71/65 0 Knott 85/79 1 Dillon 91/75 1 Stanford 74/74 0 Badin 86/86 2 Flanner 1 78/78 2 Pangborn 80/73 1 
IROUND TWO RESULTS I Feb. 7 Host dorm in italics AFFIRMATIVE PTS., VOTES NEGATIVE PTS., VOTES Siegfried 1 79/85 Sarin 1 80/82 Fisher o 78/73 Morrissey 2 88/78 Cavanaugh 0 75/70 Flanner 2 2 83/73 Grace1 2 81/77 Breen-Phillips 0 77/74 Keenan 0 67/67 St. Ed's 2 82/82 Zahm 2 86/82 Pasq. East 0 74/70 Carroll 0 53/65 Alumni 2 67/73 Lewis 0 75/72 Grace 2 2 80/79 I 
1 <= 

Badin 0 81/81 Knott 2 91/91 ~ Dillon o 75/75 Flanner 1 2 80/88 Pangborn 2 83/78 Stanford 0 64/76 8 

e~~~~~~Hiiijf~ ~ 
tfu ~ I SERVING 1t\ ~ 
ll 
PANCAKE ) ND/SMC -..:,
HOUSE I~ tTClntiPJj Reof!uwud 
LUNCH SPECIAL Mon.-Fri. All Month 
Free Hot Soup With Any Sandwich Purchase Open 7 Days A Week At 6:30 A.M. 
STUDENTS ­~ FOR 25 YEARS 1 
February tt Special ~ All Month 
Apple Pancakes 
$JOO 
OFF 
No Coupon Needed 

'!)4/f/ 
U.S. 31 North In Roseland (Across From The_Hollday Inn) 272-7433 


OPERATION DESERT STORM 
Friday, February 8, 1991 page 7 

ADANA. Turkey (AP) -A U.S. civilian employed at an air base was gunned down Thursday, apparently becoming the first American killed by terrorists opposed to the war against Iraq. 
Hours later. a bomb exploded outside a NATO Air Force command building in the Aegean port city of Izmir. shat­tering windows but causing no injuries. the state Anatolia news agency reported. 
Bobbie Eugene Mozelle, 44. of Detroit. was shot as he was getting ready to go to work at the Incirlik base outside the southern city of Adana. officials said. 
U.S. warplanes have used the base for bombing raids into neighboring Iraq. 


Professor discusses religion and war 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
News Writer 
Although the New Testament proclaims peacefulness and the Koran holds that the use of force may be justified in order to spread Islam, believers of both books find ways to justify belligerent actions. according to Father David Burrell, Hes­burgh professor of Arts and Letters. 
Burrell said that the central issue is how "a Jew. a Chris­tian, or a Muslim, in relation to their scriptures, handles the very delicate question of [the use of] force." 
He added that western civi­lization accepts Augustine's idea of a Just War, "despite the straight-on reading of the New Testament, which is that there is no room for force." 
He also emphasized that the western idea is that Muslims are told by the Koran that force is an acceptable means of spreading the Islam way. As a result Muslims are often thought of as "war mongers." Burrell said. 
Similarly. Muslims may view Christians as war mongers based on the crusades. a period in Christian history in which force was used to spread the word of the gospel. he said. 
The Koran. the divinely in­spired book of Islam, com­mands its followers to "fight not against those who have not been given the scripture. fight against those who have been given the scripture and believe not in God or the last day." said Burrell. 
Likewise. Burrell said that Christians can refer to Deuteronomy in justifying war. He added. however. that "where force is commanded there will also be reminders of limits. The most famous limit. found in Deuteronomy. is not to cut down fruit trees when seizing a city." 
Burrell also referred to such limits in the Koran. For in­stance. "It is not for a believer to kill a believer except by mis­take... Whoever slays a believer with set purpose. his reward is hell forever." 
He went on to address the de­sires of Allah [God] as defined in the Koran. Reading from the Koran. Burrell said, "Allah does not love an aggressor. Slay them wherever you find them for persecution is worse than slaughter. But if they attack you in a place of worship, then slay them." 
Another issue that arises when discussing the ethics of using force, according to Bur­rell. is that Christians claim God is on their side. 
According to Burrell, "that is an impossible stance to take, for the Father was not even at Jesus' side on Calvary." 
In closing, Burrell said that not only is the conflict in the Middle East a difference of re­ligions, but also of cultures. He added that we must not use our scriptures to justify war but to find a way towards peace. 


An anonym9us caller to news organizations in Istanbul said the victim had been punished by Dev Sol. an underground leftist group. 
"We punished a CIA agent in Adana. The bases cannot be used for the bloody games of 
U.S. imperialism," the caller 
Gulf 
continued from page 1 
Clark said he visited the heavily bombed southern port city of Basra and described what he saw as "a human and civilian tragedy," including bombing of hospitals and other non-military sites. 
He also said a Baghdad doctor spoke of several thousand deaths of injuries from allied a;r strikes. Iraqi authorities have reported more than 400 civilian deaths. 
Asked about Clark's state­ments about civilian casualties at a news briefing in Riyadh. a 
U.S. command spokesman. Ma­rine Brig. Gen. Richard Neal. said: "War is a dirty business. and unfortunately there will be collateral damage." 
He used the military euphemism for civilian casual­ties. 
Earlier, U.S. military officials said Iraqi troops were moving 
by terrorists 
said, according to Anatolia. 
In Detroit, Mozelle's sister said she believed he was tar­geted because he is black and easily identifiable as an Ameri­can. 
"My brother was not a spy." Vanessa Washington said. She said Mozelle was an accountant for a company that provided services to Incirlick. The U.S. Embassy in Ankara said the company. Vinnel. Brown and Root. handled contract employ­ees for the U.S. military. 
Mozelle was shot while get­ting into his car outside his apartment building in the affiu­ent Kurtulush district. Anatolia and local reporters said. He died after being hit by four bul­lets in the chest and stomach, the agency said. 
anti-aircraft guns into civilian neighborhoods in Baghdad and Kuwait City to protect them from allied strikes. None have been attacked thus far, but the matter is under study, the offi­cials said. 
A British air commander said the Iraqis, wielding both anti­aircraft guns and shoulder­fired missiles, have stepped up their defensive fire. 
And allied pilots were discov­ering another obstacle to their three-week-old air war against Iraqi positions: the easiest tar­gets had already been hit. 
"We have fewer targets than we did when we started," said Col. Hal Hornburg, 45, of Dal­las. commander of the 4th Tactical Fighter Wing Provi­sional. He and others cited bunkers which hid Iraq's armor and decoys that sometimes fooled allied pilots. 
Neal said U.S. Air Force F­15s shot down two or three Iraqi SU-22 attack jets as they tried to fly to Iran. Tehran tete­vision said five Iraqi warplanes. apparently including those caught by the American pilots. crashed while fleeing to Iran. 
On Wednesday. the U.S. command reported that four other Iraqi "getaway" war­planes were shot down. But Neal said a total of 134 Iraqi pilots have now managed to race across the border to find a safe haven for their aircraft. 
Iran. which professes neutrality. says it will impound the planes until war's end. 


Jeff Burgfechtel's 3rd Annual Spring Break Party 
Option 1: Daytona Beach 
$179 Base Price ~ Bus Transportation 
$274.00 
Option II: South Padre Island 

$239 Base Price :t...l2Q_Bus Transportation 
$359.00 
Trip Includes; 
• 
Eight Days/Seven Nights on the Daytona Beach Strip or on South Padre Island 

• 
Free pool deck parties with refreshments 

• 
All taxes and tips 

• 
Optional side excursions 


LAST CHANCE SIGN-UP: TUES. FEB 12 MONTGOMERY THEATER or rail LaFORTUNE 7pm .JENNIFER .JEJCUANo 28-t-5087 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 





!CLUB 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
AND 

JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1991-1992 ARE NOW AVAILABLE AT THE INFORMATION DESK IN LAFORTUNE 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
MARCH 1, 1991 


Viewpoint
page 8 Friday, February 8, 1991 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor ••••••••••••...•.....•.Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ••••••••.Beth Bolger Viewpoint Editor ••...••.•.••...Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager .•..••.••••• Amy Ecken Sports Editor .......•.......•..•.• Greg Guffey Production Manager ••..•.••.....lisa Eaton Accent Edltor.••.••••••••••••.Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr ••_Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor •..••••..............•..• Eric Bailey OTS Director .:: .••.•••..•••••..•.Dan Shinnick Saint Mary"s Editor ••..•.••Corinne Pavlis Controller...•••••••..•.•..•..•..Chris Anderson Art Director .................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Troops fighting for a just peace, deserve support 
Dear Editor: to Kuwait and, simultaneously, would have if he had been minority is using these The support of our troops is 
It never ceases to amaze me attempt to deter further acts of allowed to remain in control of freedoms to protest the very imperative for their early how some people are content to aggression by using Hussein's Kuwait would only have made it thing that gives it these return. ·u appears to me that have peace simply by turning defeat as an example. Saddam easier for him to develop a freedoms. It is also distressing the ratio of support to dissent is the other· cheek. If peace were Hussein has no regard for nuclear weapon and gain a to see this surge of protests not accurately reflected in the that easy to achieve, then why, human life or the environment. political stronghold in the after Congress has approved media. It is not the reporter'sin this country, and on this He has used nerve gas on his Middle East. The thought of the use of force in the Gulf. On "right" to know exactly what is campus especially, do we need own people. He has bombed this, combined with his Jan. 29, an "interview" with going on. This is a time of war; a police force? The answer is innocent civilians in Israel and chemical and biological Saddam Hussein was aired if the military tells simple--evil exists in the world, Saudi Arabia. He has called for weapons. is frightening, but not which, I hope, the war anyone-especially the and, in some instances, force worldwide terrorist action. He as frightening as the very real protestors had an opportunity press-what their intentions must be used to preserve peace does not adhere to the rules of probability that he would use to see. The smirk on his face are, doesn't it seem obvious and to protect those who are the Geneva convention, which them to attain whatever end he throughout the entire that Iraq will find out? With unable to protect themselves. Iraq has signed and, most desired. Considering the fact "interview" truly revealed his today's instant communications 
If the allied forces were to recently, he has caused a that we were not Iraq's ally derisive attitude. Regarding the network, we might as well have withdraw their troops from the catastrophic environmental before the war began, it is a war protests, he said that he forward spies from Iraq sitting war zone, there would be peace hazard that not only effect his fair assumption to say that if we was grateful for their support. I at these briefings on our sid.e. This peace, enemies, but also himself and did not join the effort to stop sincerely hope that the war I think everyone wants to see however, would be at the the entire world. him now. we would have had to protestors can see that, by our troops return home safely, expense of the victims of His refusal to surrender have done it at a later date, protesting the war yet and everyone wants the war to Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, et. Kuwait under the massive with a much greater risk of proclaiming to be supporting end as soon as possible; so. al. Unprovoked aggression military offensive that he is losing lives on both sides. our troops, they are in fact, instead of just praying for would reign, but at least we currently experiencing only In light of the fact that our reassuring Hussein that he is peace, pray for a just peace. would have "peace." reinforces the fact that troops are currently fighting to correct. By doing this they are 
The reason for the presence sanctions and embargoes would preserve the freedoms we so not bringing an end to the war Dan Sharpf of the allied troops in the never have worked for peace. often take for granted, I find it but are strengthening the Off-campus Middle East is to restore peace The power that this man ironic that the very vocal enemies' belief in his cause. Feb. 1, 1991 
Library disclosure policy fails to protect patron confidentiality 
Dear Editor: circulation records and other The Observer recently records identifying the names 
reported an apparently long­of library users with specificstanding policy of the University materials to be confidential. Library to disclose the names of' 2) Advise all librarians and borrowers of library materials library employees that such to any person who wishes to records shall not be made know who has checked-out available to any agency of state, books and other library items. federal, or local governmentSuch a policy contradicts the except pursuant to such every student. professor and
until such time as a proper the invasion of readers' privacy
American Library Association's process, order, or subpoena as user of the Notre Dame
showing of good cause has been by the F.B.I.'s Library
policy on the confidentiality of may be authorized under the Libraries to request a
made in a court of competent Awareness Program.
library records ,which states: authority of, and pursuant to, confidentiality form and protect
jurisdiction. underscores the importance of
The American Library federal, state, or local law yourself from censorship in
The importance of such a confidentiality policy. Even on
Association strongly relating to civil, criminal, or principle and in fact. 
assiduous protection of patron the level of local scholarly
recommends that the administrative discovery 
confidentiality has been proven communities, censorship, as
responsible officers of each procedures or legislative Robert J. Hohl., M.L.S. 
by the rise of censorship in the practiced by well-meaning but
library, cooperative system, and investigatory power. Reference and Instruction
United States during the last judgmental members of any
consortium in the United States: 3) Resist the issuance or Department
decade. The real existence of community, must be prevented.
1) Formally adopt a policy enforcement of any such Cushwa-leighton library
Thought Police, as displayed by Persons "desperate" for
which specifically recognizes its process, order, or subpoena Feb. 1, 1991 


~............................--------------------------------------~----------~----~----------------~---------------------­

Viewpoint
Friday, February 8, 1991 page 9 
Logan Center dance a lovely, learning experience 
Recently, I went to a dance at the Logan Center with my friend Paul. Having never been there before and not knowing what to expect, I went with an open mind. As we walked in, Paul said to me, "You know, whenever I spend time with these people, it makes me realize how imperfect I am." Puzzled, I said, "What do you mean?" He hesitated and replied, "Maybe you'll find out by the end of the night." With that thought, I walked into a social hall of several mentally disabled people, some in motorized wheelchairs, others with body braces and helmets. 
There were people of all ages, all races, dancing away and having a good time. Paul and I stepped right in and joined them. A few minutes later, a girl came toward me, staring without saying a word. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
She shook my hand and hugged me. I tried to introduce myself, but she said nothing. She took my arm and started introducing me to people she knew by pointing to my name tag. One of them was a lady in charge, and I asked, "What's her name?" She told me, "Jill. She's completely deaf." I wish I had known sign language, so I could have communicated with her. But Jill made me realize that words weren't necessary, because she showed me how to speak with the universal language of love. Without even talking she said a lot to me. 
While dancing I also met Jeff, a 19-year-old from Tennessee, who spoke with a speech impediment. One of the first things he said to me was, "Let's be friends forever, OK?" In jest, I smiled and said OK, 
Gretchen Ariz Guest Columnist 
bypassing any implications of my agreement. He must have been desperate for friends to say that to someone he met for the first time, but then again, I thought how, deep down inside, all of us are probably in need of forever friends, and I would not have the guts to say that, even to someone I knew very well. 
Jeff started telling me about the Persian Gulf Crisis and how he hoped our troops would come home soon. Before he left, the last thing he said in his stuttering voice was, "Don't forget befor:e you go to bed tonight, to pray for peace in the Middle East." I said that I would and thought, when was the last time I reminded a stranger to pray for peace? 
Not far from us was an older lady in a wheelchair shaking her arms and torso to the music with unbelievable vitality-she had such a happy and content expression on her face. With all her societal setbacks, she still had something to dance about that night. I could only thing of how I walked in with my two working legs and societal advantages, still heavy-hearted and burdened with schoolwork and responsibilities, not being able to dance like she could dance. 
I am glad I went to Logan Center that night because the experiences I had with people really made me think. As I looked around the dance floor, I never saw such a diverse group of people interacting so freely. It was as if they had the gift of the inability to comprehend racism or other social mores that divide us. It was a beautiful thing to be at a dance where everybody was being completely open. mentally thanked all of them for not being afraid to be real, like I often am. 
I did find out what Paul meant by what he said when we first got there. I thought I would leave the dance thinking that my problems are nothing compared to theirs, but, instead, I left realizing that their problems are nothing compared to mine. There is a lot to learn here at Notre Dame, and the people at Logan Center are among the best teachers I have had. 

Christians should remember biblical passage which suggests that we 'Judge not lest ye be judged' 
Dear Editor: Now. if we are consistent the end by the only infallible ing into a hazy subjectivity? 
In The Observer of late we Christians, we should advocate judge, God. By following closely to the have been inundated by the and actively work toward an Next. and moving closer to commands of Christ, and not Biblical argument against the abolition of our judicial system. home. Christ's command not to solely the commands that tell us war in the Persian Gulf: This seems to me the logical judge may also proscribe the what we want to hear, we can 
namely, that Christ ordered us and only conclusion of this in­giving of grades in schools. make not only liberals, but also to turn the other cheek, and controvertible and unequivocal While moral worth is not sup­criminals and students. much that violence is no legitimate injunction. posed to be determined by happier citizens. In addition. means to solve problems. A judicial system implies hu­grading, academic worth cer­since both criminals and However. it seem to me that. if mans judging the guilt of other tainly is, and when we give the students have, in recent years. we are truly to follow the dic­humans, period; and Christ has "judge not" passage as loose a tended to fall away from the tates of the Gospels, we should told us not to do that. Of course. construction as many are giving faith, perhaps the consumma­not confine ourselves to that this means that while we have the "turn the other cheek" tion of my projects would bring one passage, lest we appear to laws we will not be able to passage, it certainly seems that them back to the fold. I put this be picking and choosing our enforce them; this seems Christ has ordered us not to forward for your thoughtfulBible passages to justify our inconvenient. but the grade. It stands to reason any­consideration. political positions, and not the consequences are of no moment way: can any merely human other way around. in the face of a direct command professor claim omniscience? Michael Brooks 
For example, one passage of God, are they? We must con­What professor can. in good Brownson Hall that we all seem to ignore is, sole ourselves in the knowledge conscience. judge the worth of Feb. 4, 1991 "Judge not lest ye be judged." that the guilty will be judged in a student's effort without laps-



ND fans should be allowed to support troops 
Dear Editor: We still remember quite This support has been incorpo­Surely the fact that fans were for our Troops." 
The confiscation of American vividly after 20 years of searing rated into halftime shows. pre­on their feet cheering the stu­On Thursday night prior to flags at the gates of JACC, as if pain and anger and frustration game festivities and sponta­dents who did manage to the National Anthem, the radio they are contraband. is how it felt to have troops fight­neous lengthy expressions. smuggle banners into the game announcer stated that we appalling. I never thought I ing in a foreign land, while Can anyone recall the on Jan. 26, and that those would have a moment of si­would see the day when people back here abandoned National Anthem at the NHL same fans bombarded the lence for our troops in the Gulf. citizens in this country would them, ridiculed them. branded Hockey All-Star Game without ushers who seized the banners After the Anthem, he came be treated like criminals for them, rejected them, spat on a catch in his or her breath? with resounding boo's back on with a correction, "I exhibiting our own flag-the them and ignored them. We The people responsible for demonstrates where the hearts was wrong, that was not a very symbol of everything this will not let this happen to our these displays understand the and feelings of the crowd lie. moment of silence for the nation stands for. I would servicemen and women again. triviality of athletic event in Plastering flags around the troops in the Gulf; it was a expect this kind of repression Our behavior, our signs, ban­face of our current Athletic Department offices and moment of silence for world in countries hostile toward the ners and flags proclaim to the situation-many of our in concession stands does not peace." How incredibly cheap! U.S., but I never envisioned it families of our troops. and to professional athletes have compensate for this We can't even be gracious happening here in our own any of the troops who may be voiced such feelings-and are policy-these signs can be seen enough to acknowledge our land. If displaying the able to watch on TV that, putting athletic events into only by those inside the JACC. troops with a moment of si­American flag "is not appro­although we understand that perspective. There is no excuse for this lence! I certainly hope that priate at a basketball game," everyday life must go on, we The children of our policy, and it must be those among "the Notre Dame then what is that banner hang­are not for one minute forget­servicemen and women were changed-now. Family" who have loved ones in ing above center court-and, ting the sacrifices, hardships not "exploited" during the the Gulf remember the more importantly, why is it and realities of what are they Superbowl half-time Plan an anti-war demonstra­generosity and compassion of there? facing every minute of every program-they were being tion and it is publicjzed, cher­this University when it appeals 
Enthusiastic flag waving and day. This is our way of saying, honored and they were ished, sanctioned, promoted to them for contributions and chanting "USA, USA!" is how "We know you are there. we receiving homage for the and endorsed by the University. shower Notre Dame with equal those who love this country. pray for you. we respect you, sacrifice their parents are Plan a small display of patrio­altruism. and are proud of it, exhibit we support you and we will making. I haven't heard any of tism-love of country and It seems rather ironic that freedom of speech (is freedom honor you when you come these children's parents com­tribute to our troops-and it is burning an American flag is of speech granted only to those home." It is a true add age that plaining of "exploitation." stifled, abhorred, condemned, expressing one's freedom of who are anti anything­no one wants peace more than For the University of Notre repressed and forbidden. There speech and cannot be quelled, American?) Watch any athletic a soldier or sailor-and I can Dame to deny its students, are members of "the Notre but waving one is event on television and you will assure you that no one prays staff. faculty and fans the right Dame Family" serving in the "inappropriate." One can carry see it-yellow ribbons and flags harder for peace than their and opportunity to display their Gulf. They must be so proud of in a pompom and wave it to on cheerleader and player uni­families and friends. support is to clearly flaunt to their beloved alma mater for their hearts content with no forms, banners, signs, enthusi­Since the war broke out we the rest of the nation and to the the overwhelming support it problem-but if one carries in asm among the fans-and have watched on television as troops in the Gulf that the showers upon them. ·l remem­a small flag to wave, they are flags, rows and rows of bright, hockey fans, football fans, and University of Notre Dame just ber a recent article in The immediately confronted with beautiful. proud flags. This is yes-even basketball fans have doesn't care about them-could Observer where a former stu­security guards. ushers and not mindless "cheerleading" by cheered, waved flags~ donned it be that we are ashamed of dent serving in the .Gulf had police officers. Displaying the nitwits incapable of under­yellow ribbons and displayed them? written and asked for a Notre American flag anywhere in the standing the difference banners and signs showing At first I was angry with the Dame t-shirt to wear. Shirts United States of America is between a sporting event and their support for our troops in fans and students of Notre were sent to all the former stu­never inappropriate-not even the devastation of war. the Gulf. Most basketball teams Dame for being so apathetic. dents serving in the Gulf. How at a basketball game at the 
Most of us know all too well (including Notre Dame women) Now I learn that they are not sardonic that the Gls can University of Notre Dame. the price and horror of war be­and their cheerleaders are apathetic, they are censored. proudly wear a Notre Dame t­cause we are. or have been, wearing the flag on the front of Even chants of "USA, USA!" are shirt while fighting in the Gulf, Elizabeth Tucker military personnel and their their playing uniforms, not on diverted by the cheerleaders. I but Notre Dame can't even Notre Dame Staff families. inconspicuous shooting jackets. am not alone in my outrage. permit "A moment of silence Feb. 4,1991 
1991 STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS 
page 10 Friday, February 8, 1991 

Blanco/Fiorenzo 
As Notre Dame enters into its Sesquicentennial year, it needs effective leadership. We, Joseph Blanco and David Florenzo, offer the student body extensive experience and a focused agenda. Our experience with various student organizations and with the administration enables us to accomplish two important tasks. 
First, we will rekindle the spirit of community in the student body. We will unify, streamline, and channel the energies of student organizations to more effectively serve the students. 
With our knowledge, experience and current involvement-including the Hall Presidents' Council, Student Se­nate, Student Union Board, and Board of Trustees Report-we not only know how student organizations function, but more importantly, how they interact with each other. 
Among other things we will ensure continued funding for the Lecture Series and increase awareness and education about date rape. 
Second. we will promote a healthy working relationship with the faculty and the administration to actively pursue the needs of students. 
We intend to address the need for student representation on the commit­tee scheduled to revise du Lac this summer, a comprehensive student review of the Honor Code, and student participation in Student Affairs disciplinary hearings. 
Concerning academics, the ever increasing problems associated.. with class size, availability, and quality teaching affect all students. We are determined to prevent this university from slipping away from its com­mitment to undergraduate education. 
BLANCO/FLORENZO 
Name: Joseph Blanco Residence: Alumni Hall Major: Econ/Govt Year in school: Junior Experience: Hall Pres­idents' Council; Student 

'': Senate; Board of Trustees report commission; class gov­ernment commission; Sesquicentennial Student Committee 
Name: David Florenzo Residence: Flanner Hall Major: Government Year in school: Junior 
·~ ~ Experience: Three years · on Student Union_ B?ard; -~-~ 
one year as commiSSioner of Ideas and Issues 
Three major goals in the coming year: 
1) We hope to receive concrete proof that the University is taking action to alleviate problems associated with class size and teaching. 
2) We need to ensure that a harassment policy, and the student recommended changes concerning the University's rape policy, are included in DuLac. 
3) Achieve continued funding for the corporate lecture series. 
As Notre Dame moves to become a national Catholic research university, it is quickly approaching the crossroads where undergraduate issues start taking the backseat to research initiatives. We are dedicated to protecting these un­dergraduate concerns. 
What the student body needs is a dy­namic Student Government willing to work with the administration to preserve the undergraduate focus of this institu­tion. 
Farmer/Griggs 
We, Nicole Farmer and Eric Griggs, believe communication is of the essence. A community is a group of individuals living together, each with his or her own concerns that must be addressed. The community breaks down when communication breaks down-the results: frustration and helplessness. 
We believe that there is a sense of restlessness and lack of communication on this campus. Students are saying, "What can we do? What about .my beliefs?" We, the team of Nicole Farmer and Eric Griggs, wish to re-establish communication on this campus-between students, student groups, and the administration. 
It is difficult to articulate a party platform and to set forth concrete promises to be accomplished when one believes wholeheartedly in true communication. We feel that a spe­cific platform would perhaps assume what needs to be done is already clear. This is dangerous to us and to you. Better, we feel, to remain open to student interest. 
To begin this communication, this Sunday from 2-4 p.m. in the LaFortune Lounge we invite the entire student body to come and write down your individual interests and concerns. In a sense, you will write our platform. Building on YOUR beliefs is what Farmer and Griggs are all about, and we hope you will join us on the road to truly representing you. 
FARMER/GRIGGS 

Name: Nicole Farmer Residence: Lyons Hall Major: HistoryI Hesburgh Program Year in school: Junior Experience: Student body secretary; Stu­dent Senate; Campus Life Council; Multicultural Executive Cr·:ncil; GOLD program counselor; Executi\e Board of the Sophomore Literary Festival and of JPW last year. 
Name: Eric D. Griggs Residence: Grace Hall Major: PPE/English Year in school: Junior Experience: Student Senate; Multicultural Executive Council; NAACP financial coordinator and part of the executive committee. 

Three major goals in the coming year: 
1) Increased communication with administration through the "students helping students program" which we feel would benefit both the students and the administration 
2) Making student government an effective, true organization which meets students needs and concerns-we wish to break the stereotype of student government sitting in LaFortune and acting only on the issues that interest the cabinet. 
3) To take the risks and efforts necessary to truly voice the students' needs-to begin to make the administration and student government accountable. 

1991 STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS
Friday, February 8, 1991 page 11 
EDITORIAL 
Ferguson/James are best of mediocre bunch 
At least the tickets of Ferguson and James, Farmer and Griggs, and Blanco and Florenzo took the trouble to show up for Wednesday night's debate between student body presidential and vice presidential candidates. 
That's more than can be said for the mysterious fourth ticket, Kromkowski and Nigro, who decided it wasn't worth their while. 
However, merely appearing at the debate is one thing. Appearing impressively is another. 
It is not without reservation that we endorse the ticket of Mike Ferguson and Charlie James for the offices of student body president and vice president. None of the three tickets at the debate challen~ed student listeners with many fresh responses to questiOns. As often as not, the candidates failed to answer questions directly. 
Farmer and Griggs' responses to many key questions overemphasized prolonged discussions and the formulation of committees. While we appreciate the need for communication, it was disappointing that their answers incorporated few concrete ideas. 
The Blanco/Florenzo ticket seems unbalanced. Vice presidential candidate Florenzo took charge of most of their answers, leaving listeners to wonder whether he might have been better suited for the presidential slot. Their admission that they have little experience working together also weakens their ticket. It is difficult for voters to place their confidence in a team whose compatibility is unproven. 
While some of Ferguson and James' answers lacked ori~nality, they achieve a balance between communi­catiOn and concrete ideas. Their plan to reevaluate the Senate's role and their proposed monthly financial re­ports illustrate their desire to be responsible campus leaders. Their suggestions to improve the registration process for the students are the most innovative of their platform. 
Their position concerning the status of the Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's shows com­passion, and their thoughts on Students United for Respect {SUFR) were also informed and well­researched. 
However, Ferguson's and James' views of the University's divestment policy and the status of NASCCU show that there are areas in which they still have a lot to learn. Although their ticket is the best choice in this year's Student Body elections, we emphasize that, if elected, Ferguson and James still have some homework to do before April 1. 
Ferguson/James 
During this campaign we've heard a lot about 
improving communications with the administration, 
restructuring student government, and addressing the 
changing nature of Notre Dame as it moves toward 
being a research rather than teaching university. All of 
these are fine goals which everyone shares. What 
distinguishes one ticket from another in this campaign 
are specific proposals that can be implemented and 
that will directly impact student life. 
We have three main projects which we will 
implement. They don't solve the world's problems, or 
even all the problems at Notre Dame, but they are 
concrete steps for making this a more enjoyable and 
rewarding place to go to school. 
DART Reform: Although the problems experienced 
with DART are more a symptom of a greater problem 
which can only truly be solved by offering more 
classes, we believe that in the short term the DART 
system can be made more fair. Each student should be 
given two DART times rather than one. During the first 
appointment time students would select three classes. 
His or her schedule would then be completed during 
the second DART appointment. This system would 
eliminate the winner-take-all scenarios often en­
countered with the current system. Students would at 
least have a fair shot at receiving a few· of the classes 
they desire. 
Computerized Used Book Directory: In an effort to 
lower student book costs we think student government 
should publish a directory of used books which 
students wish to sell at the beginning of each semester. 
Students would provide a listing of books they wished 
to sell at the end of a semester and student government 
would compile and publish a list of books in a rational 
format. This would reduce the work load and make 
more accurate the process of buying and selling used 
books. 
Fall Debate Series: A series of debates in the fall 
semester featuring student/faculty teams which will 
debate more as an exhibition than as a competition. 
This will help to increase student/faculty interaction 
and will provide a forum for discussion of issues of 
interest to the Notre Dame community. Hopefully, 
these debates can be tied in with the corporate lecture 
series so as to more fully explore a topic. 
These are not the only areas where we would like to make improvements. We want to make the budget process for student government a much more public and open one so people understand the process and can participate in it. We would also like to make the National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU) a bigger priority to more completely involve the student body so that more than a few student government insiders know it exists and what it does. NASCCU is a group which can help us better understand how other students deal with admin­.istrators at Catholic institutions as they grapple with the dual role of being a place of learning and a part of 
the church. 
Kromkowski/Nigro the benefit of a college education. The separation, distrust, and 
The leaders at this university should indifference between people of 
Mark Kromkowski and Sam Nigro have as their first priority to different ethnic backgrounds on this are running for Philosopher Kings. encourage students to take college as campus is truly evil, evil in every place We are serious. We do not wish to a liberating experience, not as a pas­and at every moment. 
Notre Dame is not the only place. Racism flourishes in our society. It is ingrained in the system and educated people are needed to confront racism on a personal level -every hour of every day. 
If education merely confirms your opinions, then the hatred and fear of people different from yourself will continue to widen the separation and increase the isolation of various ethnic and socio-economic groups. 
The second concern is the lack of environmental awareness at Notre Dame. Environmental problems, which are becoming increasingly more pronounced and visible, stem from a history that fosters opinions such as: Nature is something to fear and conquer, Man is its conqueror, and, thus, Man must "develop" and "progress" at the expense of other life to ease his fe.J.r of Nature. These opinions must be studied and changed accordingly. 
Our university education is the fulcrum point of our life. Education must prepare us to confront these problems. Therefore, Notre Dame must be concerned about fostering virtuous thinkers and eager learners. Notre Dame should not become a research institution at the sacrifice of these values. 
By definition Philosopher Kings do not want to rule, but their desire for Knowledge and Truth make them the most needed to run a community. 
To confront the problems of the human condition, Socrates challenges us to " [be] one who is willing to taste 
FERGUSON/JAMES 
Name: Mike Ferguson Residence: Stanford Hall Major: Government Year in school: Junior Experience: Executive coordinator, Public Relations; president, Freshman Advisory Council; Student Senate; University Judicial council; chair, Rome Program Student Government; Stanford Hall Judicial Board 

Name: Charlie James Residence: Pangborn Hall Major: Government/PPE Year in school: Junior 
II 

Experience: President of Pangborn Hall; Student filii' Senate; Hall Presidents' council; class chair; AnTostal committee; commissioner, Year of Women for Pangborn Hall. 
Three major goals in the coming year: 
1) DART reform: Each student should be given two DART times rather than one, picking only three classes the first time, two classes the second. Students would at least have a fair shot at receiving a few of the classes they desire. 
2) Computerized used book directory: Student government should publish a directory of used books which students wish to sell at the beginning of each semester...to reduce the work load and make more accurate the process of buying and selling used books. 
3) Fall debate series: A series of debates in the fall semester featuring student/faculty teams. . . to increase student/faculty interaction and to provide a forum for discussion of issues of interest to the Notre Dame community. 
Finally, we want to make student government more accountable. We'll do this by publishing monthly fmancial reports and by the continuation of the F-R-E-D line. 
Together we can make progress. As the only team with class government, hall government, Student Senate, HPC, and cabinet service, we know how to deal with the system and get things done. With a specific agenda of realistic goals we are a ticket with the commitment and experience to continue building student government's effectiveness and responsiveness. 
KROMKOWSKI/NIGRO 

Name: Mark A. Kromkowski Residence: Campus Major: Program of Liberal Studies Year in school: Junior Experience: Philosopher king 
Name: Sam Nigro Residence: 840 Notre Dame Ave. Major: Program of Liberal Stuaies Year in school: Junior 
E~erience: 
Philosopher king 

Three major goals in the coming year: 
1) Desire to help people become the aristoi (Greek for the best). 
2) To help establish a virtuous community. 
3) Make Notre Dame the leader in Environmental Awareness and encourage an appreciation of our natural sur­roundings. 

every kind of learning with gusto .... " We want this desire for knowledge to thrive in our educational community. 
Our platform is summarized in Cardinal John Henry Newman's quote about the "gentleman." This quote was read in its complete form at the debate last Wednesday: 
He is at home in any society, he has a common ground with every class; he knows when to speak and when to be silent; .... He has a sure tact which enables him to trifle with gracefulness and to be serious with effect. 
The Highest Good for our educational community is to bring all Men and Women into this "gentleman" approach to learning and living. 

be elected. We do not want to serve. We are not self-appointed, nor self­anointed. We do not know how we became involved, but we are. 
If we are elected we will serve. We will use our reason to answer the problems that arise. We will search out an aristoi, Greek for "best people," to help us inquire what the good of the community is, and how to achieve the virtuous life. 
We want to know the good, the true and the beautiful. We know that we do not know. But we challenge you to challenge us. 
We must start with education. The Notre Dame community is an educational community. Education should liberate the mind and allow one to see how our culture, society, family, and peers influence us and channel us towards certain behavioral patterns. This should be sive earning of grades. What good is a college education if it only reaffirms your own behavioral ruts, wrought with prejudices, preconceived notions, short-sightedness, slothfulness, and egoism? 
Being part of the select few who have a chance to further our education, it is our responsibility and duty to examine who we are. If we do not strive truly and sincerely to know ourselves, we to are doomed to our ingrained opinions that we receive from our families, friends, and forefa­thers; we are doomed to be sucked up and assimilated into the world system that has inherent prejudices and destructive ideas. 
We are doomed after college to waft through society, holding false opinions firm, and never gaining knowledge. 
There are two issues where we must start a dialogue. The first is racism. 

Give to the United Way. 
... 


I ~ 
I
·' 
J 
~ 
!~i
.,
t. 
--~ 
' 
..;·
.;' 
.. 
'r. 
':l; 
·i~ 
''l 
~\; 
',II. 
f~. 
~ 
weekend calendar" 

y 
MUSIC New Earth Blues Band, Club 23, 10 p.m. Rick Danger & the Heat, Center Street Blues Cafe, 
9:30p.m. Heaven's Trail, Oar House, 10 p.m. 
sa¥ ay 
MUSIC 

The Generics, Bridget's, 1 0 p.m. 
Heaven's Trail, Oar House, 10 p.m. 
Koko Taylor & the Blues Machine, Center Street Blues 
Cafe, 9:30p.m. 

Heather Finley & Jeff Bray, Grace Coffeehouse, 9 p.m. 
South Bend Symphony Pops Orchestra, Morris Civic 
Auditorium, 8 p.m. Tickets $8.50-$25 adult, $6-$25 student. 
EVENTS International Festival, Washington Hall, 7:30p.m. 
DANCE BalletMet, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8 p.m. Tickets $16/$14. Saint Mary's students free with 10. 
s 
y 
EVENTS Sophomore Literary Festival, featuring larry Brown, Ubrary Auditorium, 8 p.m. 

FRIDAY "Wild at Heart," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. j "Ford Falriane,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

"Wild at Heart," Annenburg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. ; "Ford Falriane,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SUNDAY 

"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory," Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2 & 7 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 

"Allee," 1, 3:10,5:20 & 7:35p.m. 
"Hidden Agenda," 9:40 p.m. 

"Run," 1:10,3:10,5:10 7:10 & 9:10p.m. 
"Popcorn," 1 :20, 3:20, 5:20, 7:20 & 9:20 p.m. 
"Uonheart,"9:45 p.m • 

"Kindergarten Cop," 1, 3:10,5:20 & 7:30p.m. 
"Dances With Wolves," 1:1-5, 4:45 & 8:15 p.m. 
L 
"Grifters," 1:40, 4:30, 7 & 9:25p.m. 
Students speak out on Gulf newest star --NBC's Arthur 
By NANCY THOME Accent Writer 
I 
always marvel at humanity's ability to derive something amusing from something tragic. Something, or I should say, someone, has recently reaffirmed this human tendency for America: the Scud Stud. 
One cannot be on the cutting edge of news in the Persian Gulf these days without noticing this sandy-haired reporter. known to the free world as Arthur Kent. Many people have become fascinated with this journalist who apparently has no qualms about standing on top of a building being barraged by bombs. 
Indeed, fan clubs devoted to Arthur Kent are forming spon­taneously across this nation. As a response to all the attention Kent has received, l have at­tempted to explore the real man behind the gas mask. 
One cannot say that Kent is all leather jacket and no talent. His journalistic credentials are quite impressive. At age 21, Kent was the youngest person ever to become a correspondent for the Canadian Broadcasting Company. In 1989, Kent be­came a full-time correspondent for NBC. 
Kent apparently has an affinity for pursuing life­threatening stories. He traveled with a Soviet combat unit in Afghanistan. covered the Tiananmen Square demonstra­tion and government crack­down in 1989, and closely fol­lowed the collapse of the Ceaucescu government in Ro­mania. 
Beyond the facts, one won­ders how viewers perceive this 
hazel-eyed, Emmy-winning re­
porter. I decided to hit the 
streets and discover what the 
masses really think of Arthur 
Kent. 
The first person I interviewed 
was a Walsh resident who re­
sponds to "Tiff." The conversa­
tion~ not as fruitful and pro­
found as I had hoped, went as 
follows. 
Q: 
What is your perception of Arthur Kent, prominent jour­nalist covering the Gulf Crisis? 

A: He's hot. 

Q: 
How do your feel about his reporting techniques? 


A: They're hot. 
The next interviewee was Tom. a respected Fisher resi­dent assistant. 
Q: Do you find anything sig­nificant about Arthur Kent, the reporter or the man? 
A: Do I ever! His news report­ing reassures me, makes me believe that everything is all right. 
Q: Are there any other com­ments you have on the Scud Stud? 
A: He's the man I would like to be. He's got a great jacket, too. 
Another student walking with Tom, Janice {Howardite/news junkie) asked if she could offer her perceptions of "that hot babe in leather" {Arthur, not Tom). Prompted by no ques­tions, Janice blurted out the following: "I want him to re­port once without his signature leather jacket. so we can see more of the man Arthur Kent. I've nevPr bePn so enti-J:-aiiPd by 
any reporter. Hfl seems to be ready for anything." 
A young man who wants to be called "Raoul" does not think of Kent so favorably. I asked "Raoul" what he believed was Arthur Kent's motivation for reporting from perilous locales. 

showcase: 
By AMY ECKERT Accent Writer 
T 
he International Student Organization will present its fifth annual International Festival this Saturday, giving the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campuses a glimpse of the cultural variety that exists in the community. 
According to Etienne Ramos­Esteban. President of the ISO. there are approximately 140 people involved in putting on the show. which always draws a capacity crowd of 615 in Washington Hall. 
This year's Festival includes 19 acts representing about 30 
The ObservertKevin Weise 

The International Festival features everything from modern musicians ... 

He repliPd, "Kent just wants A: T Tom Brokaw's job. It's Deborah dange Norville and Jane Pauley all about• over again. Kent starts with taker. desert coverage. works his way thew; up to weekend anchoring and comba BAM! Tom's asking FOX for a job." Q:AJ 
My last interview (with a phi­sure~ losophy major named Kathy) the tics seems to sum up the aura sur­obsen rounding Arthur Kent. bravej 
Q: What is it about this re­A:Al porter that has brought him so What! much attention as of late? A Se1 
ISO's ann 


countries. These acts cover a broad cultural spectrum, rang­ing from West African dances to Spanish songs, from American ballroom dancing to an in­ternational fashion show which will showcase traditional cloth­
page 13 

If War's 
ur Kent 

1r Kent, at age 37, has covered such 1viet invasion of Afghanistan, the ld now the Persian Gulf War. 
A: There is an element of danger, something exciting about what he does. He's a risk taker. His true mystique lies in the way he faces the (·.ore of combat. 
Q: :\S a philosophy major, I'm sure xou look beyond the aes­thetir.'J of Arthur Kent. Any final observations concerning this brave journalist? 
A: Art's the picture of virility. 
What a stud. A Scud stud, that is. 
ND's Chris Murphy goes from campus plays to 'Poltergeist III' 
By MARC JOHNSON 
Accent Writer 
T 
he entertainment industry is wonderful for those who reap its benefits, and those actors within the entertainment industry benefit greatly from the profession they have chosen. 
Any entertainment program or magazine contains images of multi-millionaires who own lav­ish homes and expensive cars. Some even use their wealth and influence to promote worth­while causes. Media stars are beautiful, wealthy and some­times noble, and America loves them for these qualities. 
As inviting as the work ap­pears, the entertainment indus­try is still an industry. Just ask Chris Murphy; he's been there. 
Murphy is a junior in the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies who currently resides in Alumni Hall. His most recent achieve­ments have been starring roles in the recent production of "Arsenic and Old Lace" and last year's production of "Do Patent Leather Shoes Really Reflect Up?" 
While many on campus may recognize Murphy for these achievements, very few may know that he had a role in the movie "Poltergeist III." 
"If you want to see my role, don't blink," said Murphy mod­estly. His portrayal of "Dusty" consisted of approximately six lines, but the experience cannot be measured in words alone. "It was a great experience just to work with professionals." 
Thf' filming for "Poltergeist III" took place on a floor in the John Hancock Building in Chicago. "It was fairly hard work," said Murphy, "we worked from 9:30 at night until 
6:30 in the morning on three consecutive night.'>." 
The filming took place in the spring of 1987, and the film was released in June 1988. For three days of filming, Murphy made "approximately $425 a night." 
This amount might seem quite large to students earning just over minimum wage for a summer, but Murphy claims that he was only at the bottom of the scale. "This is just an es-

timate, but I would say that 
95% of the money goes to 5% of 
thP actors." 
Most actors work as hard or harder than non-actors, and often with fewer results. "By my senior year in high school I was really burned out," Murphy said. "I had to travel to Chicago from South Bend sometimes five or six times a week. It was fun, but driving two hours to perform ten minutes becomes tiring... Producers would say things like 'Give us ten different expressions while eating chicken.'" 
Murphy attended high school in South Bend, and his many treks to Chicago did result in five or six commercials. The products he plugged ranged from Brach's candy to Alabama Farm Insurance. "'Some of my commercials were supposed to go national but never. did. The Brach's commercial was for a new product that was so bad they never marketed it." 
After high school Murphy de­cided to attend the University of Southern California to pursue a career in acting. He traveled to England for his sophomore year, but returned to the United States to fmd that "being at USC was only good for so long." 
Chris Murphy's goals are sim­ilar to those of any student here at Notre Dame. "Right now I just enjoy participating in activities here in the commu­nity, typical college stuff." 
Everyone seems to have a problem with the word "actor," and Murphy is no exception. "There are certain preconcep­tions and stereotypes that go with someone saying that they want to be an actor. I am not majoring in acting, and although I can't see myself do­ing anything else. I'm realistic. I know how important luck is and what a small role talent sometimes plays." 

.nnual International Festival 
lses campuses' cultural diversity 
ing from India, Japan, Nigeria tures, is consistent with the 400 people to over 800 mPm­
and eight other countries. purpose of the ISO itself, which bers, making the ISO officially 
The show will also feature Ramos-Esteban described as the largest organization on ationa! acts such as the Ballet Folk­"the diffusion of international­campus. e n t lorico Azul y Oro, a group of ism." The ISO seeks to encour­Its membership represents m will dancers that performs tradi­age exchange among cultures over 70 countries, including the 5 fifth tional folk dances from differ­through its many activities. United States. Ramos-Esteban [}ational ent regions of Mexico, and refuted the common but false , giving "Seamaisin" a group of Irish Its three main annual activi­belief that the ISO is only for 
Mary's musicians that has performed ties are the Festival, the Inter­foreign students, stating that of the locally. Members of the Philip­national Banquet and the Fi­the goal of the club is to include xists in pine Club will perform esta. The ISO also sponsors everybody. 
"Tinikling." in which the dancer lectures, fireside chats, picnics, Ramos­moves with great agility be­and pizza and movie nights. The International Festival is .he ISO, tween bamboo poles which are "The Passport," the !SO's publi­an important part of the ISO's ely 140 tapped together. cation, is in its third year. Also, mission of creating an interna­.ting on the !SO's lounge in LaFortune is tional environment at Notre draws a Ramos-Esteban characterized open to the campus. Dame/Saint Mary's. This year's 615 in the Festival as the !SO's biggest As an organization, the ISO Festival will take place tomor­
contribution to the Notre Dame has grown considerably within row at 7:30p.m. in Washington 
community, because of the im­the last few years. According to Hall, making it a good Wf'.y to ncludes portance of people from diverse Ramos-Esteban, the ISO has start an evening. bout 30 cultures learning to live to­existed for over 20 years, but Tickets are $3, and there will cover a gether and communicate with has become a much stronger be a reception in the Notre 
[}, rang­each other. He added that this club in the last eight or ten Dame room in LaFortune Stu­ances to is especially important now, be­years. dent Center immediately follow­nerican cause of the Gulf war. He added that during the ing the show, giving Festival an in­The purpose of the Interna­three years that he has been at goers an opportunity to meet tional Festival, to promote Notre Dame, the !SO's member­some of the people involved in
"' which 
ll cloth-learning about different cui-ship has doubled from around the show. 

page 14 The Observer Friday, February 8, 1991 
How do you like your blue-eyed boy, Death? 
"Buffalo Bill's defunct.. Jesus/ 
"Every subject's duty is the his life--for a friend. Is it spo­He was a handsome man/ and king's; but every subject's soul ken in English only and not what i want to know is/ How do Father Robert Griffin is his own. Therefore should French? I do not believe so." you like your blueeyed boy/ Mis­every soldier in the war do as This is not the Christ of ter Death" ---e. e. cummings Letters to a Lonely God every sick man in his bed, wash Owen's religious upbringing. 
In England in early January, I every mote out of his con­prayed for peace to the Angli­science: and dying so, death is If Christ lived amongst us like can God of the Establishment in us "get the job done." . . . If you could hear, at every to him advantage ..." a soldier without arms, its be­the land of hope glory: that is The impression you could get jolt, the blood/ Come gargling If there is one supreme poet cause He chose to get by in our to say, to the God of Mrs. of the Establishment's Christ is from the froth-corrupted of what we now call the Estab­world on love that is stronger Miniver and the Unknown War­that He's enlisted for the dura­lungs/ ... My friend, you would lishment, Graham G,reen has than death. Like a circus pro, rior buried in Westminster tion as a morale officer, in not tell with such high zest/ ... pointed out, it is Shakespeare. He chose to walk the tightrope Abbey, the sweet, grave, impe-. charge of the cosmetics that the old Lie," which says it is "In his great poetic history of leading from the cradle to the 
rial Divinity with the dignity of make hawks look like doves. sweet and proper to die for England, he... worked back­grave, and He did it without a an archbishop at home in In 1965, Pope Paul VI told the one's country. wards, receding from the dan­net under Him. Crammer's Prayerbook, the United Nations, "No more war! Wilfred Owen told that he did gerous present, the England of If we wish to be His disciples, God of the far-flung battle line, War never again!" Now pastors not intend for this elegy to be plots and persecutions, into the we have the option of following to Whom Kipling prayed, "Lest are tying yellow ribbons to the consolatory: "All the poet can safer past. .. Him onto the tightrope, relying we forget! Lest we forget!" old oaken crucifix that stands do today is to warn." "Dulce" "Of course he is the greatest on love to give us courage, not 
Back home with the cousins in the churchyard. should be read daily like a peni­of all poets, but we who live in on the guardian angels sent to on this side of the pond, I The generals in the Persian tential psalm, by generals who times just as troubled as his... watch us. prayed for peace to the broad­Gulf were only majors and cannot be warned often sometimes feel more at home Here on this earth, we rely on shouldered God of the pilgrims' colonels in the jungles of Viet­enough. with... poets who dared to re­one another to be the good pride, whose current vicar on nam. Updated churches exhibit In Shakespeare's "Henry V," veal themselves whatever the Samaritan; to tell you the truth, earth seems to be Billy Graham, crosses without the corpus; up­the soldier Michael Williams, on danger..." we have no strong proof that the "hawkish evangelist" with graded generals show us bat­the eve of the battle of Agin­I was not ordained to write there is any other good Samari­whom the President prays. · tlefields minus the casualties. court, speaks his mind as an articles to serve the God of the tan waiting in the wings to bail 
Our national Jehovah is in­Many of us never realized Englishman, expendable as old Lie, tying yellow ribbons to us out. Yet He has not left us voked by the Establishment at how costly the Civil War was cannon fodder. "... if the cause the old rugged cross on which orphans cheated of love. Thanksgiving and on the until we saw pictures of the be not good, the King himself damaged children are crucified The blue-eyed Christ who Fourth of July, or when war dead soldiers in the PBS docu­hath a heavy reckoning to make every day the war lasts. The brings only love to the battle­breaks out, or an armistice is mentary. Didn't those generals all those legs and arms and God of the Establishment is the field may sound like a signed, or when "Taps" is learn anything about holding heads, chopp'd off in a battle, false god of a religion which is lightweight when compared to played in Arlington Cemetery on their fire, from winning the shall join together at the latter used as the opium of the people. the Establishment's Christ. Veterans' Day, as we bare our Cold War without dropping any day and cry all 'We died at such Wilfred Owen wrote, "Already However, an eye witness at a head to our Unknown Soldier. bombs? Would East Germany a place'--some swearing, some I have comprehended a light death camp saw a mother and 
"'next to or course god have fared better if Jack crying for a surgeon, some which will never filter into the daughter going into a gas America if love you. . . what Kennedy had, at the Berlin upon their wives left poor be­dogma of any national church: chamber, and he heard the could be more beat-/ iful than Wall, taken Clint Eastwoood as hind them, some upon the debts namely that one of Christ's child say; "Mother, it's dark, these happy heroic dead/ who his role model? they owe, some upon their chil­essential commands was, Pas­it's so dark, and I was being so rushed like lions to the roaring The war poem which endures dren rawly left." sivity at any price! Suffer dis­good." slaughter/ they did not stop to through this century like the Michael has, as a reply, the honour and disgrace, but never think they died instead'" (e.e. Wailing Wall was written by an divine right of kings explained resort to arms. Be bullied, be How could Christ greet the cummings) English soldier killed in action to him: "... the king is not outraged, be killed; but do not frightened little girl in heaven 
According to the great seal in 1918, a week before the bound to answer the particular kill. as the elder Brother wiping the on the dollar, the Yankee God Armistice was signed: "If in endings of his soldiers. . . Men ~Christ is literally in no-man's tears from her face, if He had "ANNUIT COEPTIS" ("He has some smothering dreams you have no wings to fly from God: land. There men often hear his side-stepped the darkness His smiled on our undertaking.") too could... ./ ... watch the war is His beadle; war is His voice. Greater love hath no man own goodness was confronted Invoked in wartime, He'll help white eyes writhing in his face/ vengeance. than this, that a man lay down with? 

If you are looking to beat the February blues, 
The Observer wants you 
With the dark, cold months of February and March just around the corner, The Observer is looking for new faces in all departments-from Ad Design to Sports and everything in between. If you're interested in joining the almost 200 crazy· people who have beaten the study-class-study routine, now is the perfect time. Come see us at The Observer office, 314 LaFortune, or call us at 239-5303. Join now and go crazy with us this spring. 
The Observer: The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Friday, February 8, 1991 The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classrt~eds every bustness day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classtfieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. tncludtng all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 
NOTICES  GRAPHICS ARTS STUDENT NEEDED FOR CATALOG LAYOUT. PROJECT IS ON PC-BASED  TICKETS  EDITORIAL CARTOONISTS sought on a free-lance basis by local daily  Diamond -The long awaited day has arrived!!!!!!  To the SEXIEST set of twins on the  
DESKTOP PUBLISHING SYSTEM.  newspaper. Interest in local and  ND campus-Mark and Ed, that is.  
TYPING AVAILAbLE:.  WILL TRAIN. CALL DENNIS 293­ I need an Indigo Girls Ticket  X  state news a must. Fee negotiable.  Guess what? New contest!  
287-4082  3568 (DAYS) 272-5031 (EVES)  1930  To apply, send three cartoons  Happy 21st Kitty!!  Waiting for more ... Love,  
dealing with local issues to:  Love,  Erin,Renee.Becky,and Helen  
NY TIMES, used and new books  TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER  I STILL NEED INDIGO GIRLS  TRIBUNE BOX F-25  Shirley and Ricky  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  CHILDREN'S CAMPS­ TICKETS  -JEFF  EVES 272  SOUTH BEND. IN 46626  
corner of ND ave. & Howard  NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN  9602  Malini  
10-5:30 everyday  WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN  Wishing you a STELLAR night'  (OK I won't put your last name,  
Want a great job?  THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD.  PERSONALS  Hi Wally!!  ... the girls next door  but your phone number is...)  
Then you need a great RESUME! Only $20 including 25 copies & envelopes on quality paper. MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245 STOP THE WAR  TRAVEL EXPENSE. DROP BY FOR INFORMAL INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY. FEB. 21, IN LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY ROOM AND SORIN ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM.  A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $299! DAYTONA $159! PANAMA CITY $99! SPRING  Hey Han, Here's to another weekend at the 'brare. Don't worry -we'll make the most of it, we always do...Love Ya!-LB.  Notre Dame's Metal Band Notre Dame's Best Band Notre Dame's ONLY Band HEAVEN'S TRAIL  So what are the big plans for the weekend since ____Sr. is out of town? Could it be sheep or spam or just alone in your room with wet towels. Something to start thinking about-over Spring Break,  
wear white arm bands now  BREAK TRAVEL 1-800-638-6786.  remember, there is only one rule for  
GCAG  EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK  ADOPTION: Christian couple  Live at The Oar House  the villa. Don't be the first one to  
READING BOOKS AT HOME.  DO YOU ENJOY WORKING WITH  seeks to adopt white infant.  (US31-2 min. N. of N.D.)  break it this time!  
ATIENTION ALL CONCERNED  CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340.  PEOPLE?  Financially secure home in  
WITH THE WAR:  If you are searching for an  suburban area.  Expenses paid.  Fri. and Sat.  10 p.m.  
there is an important  SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER  opportunity that will allow you to  Legal/confidential.  Answer our ad  
ad that needs your signature  CHILDREN'S CAMPS­ earn an exceptionally large income  and answer our prayers. Please call  Flanner II (Pumpkin and Mich).  
come to the esc to sign it by Tuesday, Feb 12  NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO  while helping people, call291-2964 for an appointment.  Harry and Melody collect at (219) 259-0585 any time.  Brown-Have a good one and don't get  Congratulations!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You guys kicked. Sorry, Mich, since  
or contact a GCAG memb<!•  SWIM. SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL  NERVOUSI!  we have won two, it looks like you  
POOL AND LAKES IN THE  PREGNANT? Loving, happily­ Love,  will have to do another one'  
LOST/FOUND  NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL  married professional couple wishing to adopt. We promise your child lots  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 2729305  Hazel (aka Oscar)  

 EXPENSE.  DROP BY FOR AN  of love, security, strong religious  CLUB  23  
INFORMAL INTERVIEW  affiliation, & a lifetime of happiness  Need ride to Ll OR AREA for  
LOST:  Nikon Camera & Case  ON THURSDAY, FEB. 21, IN  including international  NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX  SB Can leave 3/7.$$ call 2621  Daily Special:;.  New addition:  
Last Seen Saturday Jan. 26  LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY ROOM  travel/educational/& living  REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5  The Coffee House  
at Law School Party in the  AND SORIN  opportunities. We enjoy skiing,  DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC. $5  Bring your books and come  
JACC Monogram Room. If  ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM.  hiking, camping, and visits with  OFF WITH ND/SMC I D.  I need a ride to Cleveland/JCU  study, or just come socialize.  
picked up or found, please  family and friends. Medical, legal,  ON SR 23, PAST IRONWOOD.  the weekend of the 15th. Will  Open daily 4pm-3am.  
contact 273-9236. You  !!!!!!!!!!!!SYRACUSE B­ counseling, and living expenses  CALL 277-6245.  pay gas, tolls Call Erin 1715.  
will be rewarded for your  BALL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  possible. Call COLLECT 0-317-253­ CLUB  23  
honesty. $$$$$$$  I NEED THREE TICKETS FOR  8838, Extension 567 and let us help  
THE' GAME PLEASE!  you.  LURCH is like a Prairiefire.  Attention!  Daily Specials.  New addition:  
LOST: Gold Gaurdian Angel Pin Great sentimental value  Cal! Jen at X4827  LAUGH AT YOU!!!!!!  He's so HOT! Luv, B  Stephanie Boerger (a.k.a. Polly Pirouette) is 21 today!  The Coffee House Bring your books and come  
Call Adrienne  284-5223  FOR RENT  LOST AT LAS VEGAS PARTY ON  I need a ride to I.U. Feb.8  Call  Double! Double! Now you can pertorm in all the bars!  study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  
LOST-POLO silver  MARION STREET A white and  Missy at 2577 $$  Piece, Comfort, and  
wire rimmed glasses  green hat with an "I" on it. If you  Happy B-Day,  
no case please call Tim x1649 LOST: Green and white baseball hat with an "1." Lost Friday night at Las Vegas Party. Call Dan at 234-1048  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. HOUSE FOR RENT. Walk to  have it, please return it to Dan (234­1048). Sentimental value. CLUB 23 Daily Specials. New addition:  SPRINGBREAK DAYTONA! Fun in the sun on the beach in our NEW Flamingo Inn. Rated AAA excellent. Call now 1-904-252­1412.  Love your 4A fans SUPPORT THE TROOPS BAING THEM HOME NOW wear white arm bands  
campus. Only $150/month. Call  The Coffee House  
FOUND: Pair of gloves in 127 Nieuland. Call x4530. FOUND: Scart in front of Library. Call x4530.  Paul287-2159. 3 Bedroom Homes. Walk to campus. 232-3616  Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. CLUB 23  ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS "TAKE OFF FOR ADVENTURE! Over 50,000 positions through 200+ listings in National Parks, study/teach abroad,  IN MOURNING OF THE VICTIMS OF WAR wear white arm bands  
HELP! If anyone happened to pick up a RETAILING textbook from 208 Cushing could you please return it to me? I have a test soon! Thanks!  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at  Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am.  volunteer/service, ski resorts, pertormance, cruise lines. Send $4.95 + $1 S&H to Renaissance Resources, Box 652, Driggs, ID 83422;"  FESTIVAL FOR PEACE all GCAG members and friends are invited to Saturday's fest 1138 Blaine Ave. 9pm Ouestions?289-3234 (Sarah)  
Please call Tom at "2259  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  
(12 miles from South Bend)  CLUB  23  Typical N.D. guy who happens  
FOUND: Eyeglass Case, found Sat. Feb. 2 on path from Flanner to NDH behind PW.  Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011  Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House  to be gay, seeks same for friendship. I have roommates too, so discretion is  Panama City Beach this spring break  DAYTONA BEACH SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  "''"'lff9* """'Sf29*  
Call X1583 to identify.  Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514.  Bring your books and come study, or JUSt come socialize.  important. Thanks' MARK, P.O. BOX 974, N.D., IN. 46556.  only $199  STEAMBOAT  "on•$96*  
Found: -lady's ring at ACC  Open daily 4pm-3am.  Trans. and hotel inc.  FORT LAUDERDALE  "0"'~~~7*  
before break -scapular outside  NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF ND  CLUB  23  !! HOWARD!! Kim and Cheryl 4 Sec.  CallND  ~  PANAMA CITY BEACH  fmmlf21J*  
Howard Call Dan @1772 to identify @@@@HELP! HELP! HELP!@@@@ LOST A SINGLE PERAL EARRING SOMETIME LAST WEEK. (9mm)! If found please call Beth at #2467'11 WANTED  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 FREEDOM' Rent the best houses. Prime locations. 233­9947. Affordable 5,4,2 bedrm. homes for '91-'92. Beach V-ball ct., washer/dryer, safe area. 288-5653 or 234-3831  Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize. Open daily 4pm-3am. CLUB 23 Daily Specials. New addition: The Coffee House Bring your books and come study, or just come socialize.  It's the weekend ... Do you know where your brother is? ERD SluG, Plez cum bak soon We misyou SMILE! Edward Bear  SUBfor ~~~ info at \239-7668 or stop by 2nd floor LaFortune Fire up, Farley girls, to play some  CORPUS CHRISTl I MUSTANG ISLAND ..,mlfQB* HILTON HEAD ISLAND "o"'$ff2* DON'T WAIT 'TIL IT'S TOO LATE CALL TOLL FF?EE TODAY 1·800·321·5911  
Open daily 4pm-3am.  "Mountain Music" and do the  
SUMMER JOBS  Photography for Formals-Halls­ "Spring Thing" in the Smokies!!!  
Furnished bedroom in Turtle Creek  Dances-ROTC. CaiiiHS  
COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN'S  town house.  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  Photography at 234-8539.  HEY ..... CHRISTINE, BETH, JODI, NICOLE, AND JULIE!!!!!  Cruise Ship Jobs  
CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP  Available immediately!  Who says you need a beach for  HIRING Men -Women. Summe  
SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE  Call Tim@ X2506  It's not too early to submit your classifieds for Valentine's Day. Don't wait until the last minute­ -,r..r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r.r~ ~ JefT Burgfechtel's ~ ~ 3rd Annual ~  Break? The Peterson Party Tour will come full circle when we "Boot with Beth" in....... KENTUCKY?!?!!!  Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS, GUIDES, RECREATION Excellent pay plus FREE traveL_ · .  
FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES:  come in anytime SOON.  ~  ~­ Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pac1f1c, Mex1co.  
ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL. BASKETBALL, BICYCLING,  FOR SALE  ------­~ ~  Spring Break Party  ~ ~  THE BAR  THE BAR  THE BAR  CALL NOWI Call refundable. -206-736-0775  
DANCE. DRAMA, DRUMS, FENCING. FOOTBALL. GOLF, GUITAR. GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY,  TKT. FR. SB TO PHILA FOR 3/10191 -$80. CALL RUTH 283­ CHECK IT OUT! TOYS, GIFTS AND GAGS for your SYR dates  ~Daytona Beach or South ~Padre Island. For INFO and  ~ ~  Charlie and the Chocolate Factory!  
 
HORSEBACK-ENGLISH, JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE,  2876.  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  ~LAST CHANCE~sign-up  ~ ~ ~  NOW SHOWINGIII!  
NATURE, PHOTOGRAPHY.  GIBSON EPIPHONE  Lower Level LaFortune  ~  ~  
PIANO, ROCKETRY,  BASS GUITAR  ~Tues., Feb. 12  ~  When  Sunday, Feb. 10  
ROLLERBLADING, ROPES.  BRAND NEW, GREAT ACTION'  Stop in and say Hi to Amy.  ~ Montegomery Theater  ~  Time:  2 p m. and 7 p.m.  
SAILBOARDING, SAILING,  BEST OFFER.  Paula, Maura, and Ken!!!  ~LaFortune 7pm  ~  Where Carroll Aud1tonum  
SCUBA. SOCCER, TRACK,  UPS Service  M-F  ;;.!  ~  @ SMC  
WATER SKI, WEIGHTS, WOOD.  CALL EDDIF:@ 272-8198  ---------~or Call Jenn 284-5087  ~  
DROP BY FOR INFORMAL  Two Holy Cross Associates  ~.r.r.r..r..r..r..r.r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r.r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r..r_j  The story we loved as a k1d IS now  
INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY, FEB.  FOR SALE : Sound System for bar  returned from Chile would like to  coming to life!  Charlie won a  
21 , IN LAFORTUNE'S DOOLEY  band. In Good Shape.  share their experience with  0 GREAT AND TAPERING Ell:'  Golden Ticket® and so can you!  
ROOM AND  Reasonable Price. Call:  interested people:  May our mutual futures be pregnant  With the chance to win a VCR, 12  
SORIN ROOM FROM 11 AM-5 PM.  Kevin X3498 or John X1166.  Center for Social Concerns ­ with manicures.  Barnaby's Pizzas, and a $50 Gift  
Tuesday, Feb. 12, 7:00pm  certificate to the Bookstore! But  
HELP!  HELP!  HELP!  FOR SALE:  there's two ways to win:  
I need a couple of INDIGO GIRLS  Smith Corona Personal Word  %#"/o#"/o#"/o#Ofo#"/o#"/o#"/o#''lo#Ofo#  1) Buy "THE BAA" from an  
tickets for some out of town guests-if anyone has any extras l,m sure they'll pay generously for  Processor (System 14) Contains typewriter XE 6100 w/dictionary; when hooked to  RIGHT-TO-LIFE OF ND/SMC WILL HOLD A PICKET TODAY AT THE LOCAL ABORTION CLINIC. MEET  HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY CLOUT!  AnTostal '91 Rep. 2) Answer the questions placed right here to win a $100 check from  &"aAmerican Heart  
them! Thanks and Happy Valentine's Day! Call Kelly at 273­ monitor becomes word processor. 2 in 11  AT THE MAiN CIRCLE AT 2:15PM OR 3:15PM FOR A RIDE THERE.  RAT, TUNA, MEAT, CHUCK  AnTostalll  ~ Association  
9442  (evenings are best!)  Interested? Staph @ 4322  COME SUPPORT THE BABIES.  THE BAR  THE BAA  THE BAR  
THEY NEED YOU!!!!!  
o/o•%*o/o*o/o~4*o/o*o/o*o/o*o/o*%*04*  



page 16 
Scoreboard 
Friday, February 8, 1991 

NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE EAST EASTERN CONFERENCE Patrick Division Boston College t 13, Md.-E. Shore 64 AUantic Division w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Div Cent Conn. St. 68, Md.-Baltimore County 57 w L A::t CJ! NY Rangers 28 19 9 65 202 174 15-8-5 13-11-4 10-7-3
L10 Streak Home Awwy Coni 12 23-4
Clark U. 71, Babson 64, OT Boston 35 .745 6-4 Won 3 t2-8 23-9 Pittsburgh 29 23 3 61 235 203 18-lt-t 11-12-2 14-10-0 Delaware 72, Drexel 71 Philadelphia 25 21 .543 9 t/2 3-7 Won 1 t7-7 8-t4 19-12 Philadelphia 27 25 6 60 189 179 15-12-4 12-13-2 9-10-5 Duquesne 74, Rhode Island 57 Washington 2t 27 .438 t4 t/2 4-6 Won 1 t4-8 7-t9 13-t7 New Jersey 23 22 10 56 200 184 15-7-6 8-15-4 8-11-5 
E. Nazarene 101, St. Joseph's, Maine 86 Washington 25 28
New York 20 27 .426 t5 4-6 Lost 2 t0-14 t0-t3 tt-16 3 53 178 188 13-11-2 12-17-1 13-tt-1 Edinboro 70, Gannon 61 .292 2-8 NY Islanders 18 29 44 195 10-15-5 7-12-4
New Jersey t4 34 2t 1/2 Lost 7 9-14 5-20 9-t9 8 157 8-t4-3 Fairleigh Dickinson 77, Robert Morris 70 Miami t3 34 .277 22 3-7 t 9-t4 4-20 Adams Division
Won 7-22 Fitchburg St. 80, Nichols 71 Central Division Boston 32 18 8 72 211 187 20-7-3 12-11-5 t3-7-3 King's, N.Y. 68, Caldwell 54 Chicago 32 14 .696 1/2 6-4 Won 2 18-3 t4-11 t9-7 Montreal 31 21 6 68 199 177 18-9-2 13-12-4 12-7-3 Long Island U. 75, Brooklyn Col. 62 Detroit 34 t5 .694 7-3 Lost t 2t-3 13-12 23-7 Harttord 24 25 6 54 159 181 13-11-3 11-14-3 7-10-3 
Loyola, Md. 63, Canisius 59 Milwaukee 30 t9 .612 41/2 3-7 Buffalo 21 23 to 52 189 186 t1-10-6 10-13-4 6-10-4 Manhattan 68, Niagara 61 26 7112 Won 8-15 Quebec 11 35 31 245 5-17-6 6-18-3 
Lost t 22-3 8-t6 t9-1t 
Atlanta 21 .553 4-6 2 t8-6 16-15 9 t56 6-10-5 Mary Washington 77, Catholic U. 61 
Indiana 19 27 .413 14 5-5 Lost 2 15-7 4-20 12-t6 Mount St. Mary·s, Md. 86, Wagner 74 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE
Cleveland t5 32 .319 t8 t/2 3-7 Lost 3 10-14 5-t8 t0-18 Northeastern 66, Army 47 Norris Division
Charlotte t4 33 .298 t9 1/2 2-8 Lost 4 t0-14 4-t9 9-21 Phila. Pharmacy 69, Penn St.-Harrisburg 57 w L T Pts Gf GA Home Awwy Div Plymouth St. 94, Mass.-Boston 91 WESTERN CONFERENCE Chicago 35 17 4 74 189 144 18-7-2 17-10-2 14-6-t Midwest Oivl$lon 216 16-6-5 tS-1,0-2 13-7-2
Rider 66. Hofstra 61 St. Louis 32 16 7 71 174 Roger Williams 80, Curry 73 w L A::t CJ! L10 Streak Home Away Detroit 24 27 5 53 189 .206 19-10-0 5-17-5 t1-10-2
Coni 
SE Massachusetts 77, E. Connecticut 72 San Antonio 32 13 .711 7-3 Won 1 19-5 13-8 22-8 Minnesota 18 3t 9 45 176 199 11-14-4 7-17-5 5-t3-3 
Salem St. 79, Westfield St. 51 Utah 31 16 Toronto 14 36 6 34 163 235 9-19-2 5-17-4 7-t4-2 St. Francis, Pa. 63, Marist 67 Smythe Division
I .660 2 6-4 Won 1 21-4 t0-12 2t-8 
Houston 27 21 .563 61/2 7-3 Won 4 17-7 10-14 16-14
I 
St. Thomas Aquinas 90, Dominican, N.Y. 77 Dallas 17 27 .386 14 1/2 5-5 Won 2 tl-12 6-15 10-19 Los Angeles 31 t8 5 67 224 172 17-7-3 14-11-2 10-7-3 j Temple 77, George Washington 60 Minnesota 16 29 .356 16 4-6 Lost 1 t1-1t 5-18 11-20 Calgary 29 21 5 63 221 174 15-7-1 t4-14-4 11-6-2 I Yeshiva 79. St. Joseph's, N.Y. 58 Denver 14 31 .3t1 18 7-3 Lost 1 tt-12 3-19 6-22 Edmonton 27 24 3 57 187 177 t6-9-1 t1-t5-2 10-10-2 
SOUTH 33 19 Winnipeg 29 49 205 12-12-4 8-6-5
Orlando 14 .298 4-6 Won 3 t2-t2 2-21 10-2t 20 9 192 8-17-5 ., j Ark.-Little Rock 81, Georgia St. 66 Pacific Division Vancouver 20 32 5 45 174 222 t1-t3-3 9-19-2 7-17-0 Armstrong St. 92, Valdosta St. 90 
Portland 39 9 .813 8-2 lost 1 24-2 15-7 23-7 
Athens St. 106, Faulkner 90 LA Lakers 11 3 Won 20-4 21-8 Thuosday's Games Saturday's Games 
I 
35 .761 10-0 16 15-7 Augusta 65, Charleston Southern 61 Phoenix 30 16 .652 8 lost 1 18-4 t9-10 Calgary 4, Boston 1 Chicago at Boston, t :35 p.m.
5-5 t2-12 
Belhaven 69, Mobile 67 Vancouver 2, Philadelphia 1 New Jersey at Quebec, 2:05 p.m.
Golden State 26 20 .565 12 6-4 Lost t 16-4 10-t6 t6-t4 Brescia 86, Fontbonne 73 Seattle 23 15 1/2 Won 15-6 10-16 Montreal 5, Quebec 1 Calgary at Hartford, 7:35p.m.
22 .489 6-4 2 7-17 
Campbellsville 135, Lindsey Wilson 120 Minnesota 4, Toronto 2 N.Y. Rangers at Montreal, 8:05p.m.
LA Clippers 15 32 .319 23112 2-8 Lost 5 11-10 4-22 11-17 Cent. Florida 68, Texas-Pan American 61 Sacramento 13 32 .289 241/2 4-6 Won 1 t2-11 1-21 9-21 Friday's Games N.Y. Islanders at Toronto, 8:05p.m.
) 
Cent. St., Ohio 102, Kentucky St. 96, OT Los Angeles at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Detroit at Minnesota, 8:35 p.m.,) Christian Brothers 87, Fread-Hardeman 85 Thursday's Games N.Y. Islanders at Detroit. 7:35p.m. Los Angeles at St. Louis, 8:35p.m.
Friday's Games 
Citadel 92, Newberry 78 Vancouver at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35 p.m.
Atlanta 127, Charlotte 114 
Coker 81, Lander 65 No games scheduled Edmonton at Washington, 8:05p.m.
Houston 96, Cleveland 92 
David Lipscomb 96, Bethel, Tenn. 80 Pittsburgh at Winnipeg, 8:35p.m.
Boston 117, New York 101 Saturday's Games 
~ 
Dillard 86, Tougaloo 78 Orlando t08, Minnesota 103 
Duke 86, Virginia 74 No games scheduled
Washington 124, New Jersey 1t7 
AP MEN'S TOP 25
E. Tennessee St. 110. Belmont Abbey 70 
Chicago 95, Detrort 93 Sunday's Game Elizabeth City St. 94, Bowie St. 84 
Dallas t 02, Golden State 101 Florida A&M 95, Morgan St. 84 San Antonio 118, Indiana 108 All-Star Game at Charlotte, 1:30 p.m. How the Associated Press' Top 25 teams fared Thursday: Francis Marion 80. Erskine 65 
1. 
UNLV (t8-0) vs. Fresno State. Next: at No.2 Arkansas, Sunday. Howard U. 94, Bethune-Cookman 81 

2. 
Arkansas (23-1) beat Houston 8t-74. Next: vs. No.1 UNLV, Sunday. Jacksonville St. 116, Ala.-Huntsville 87 


NCAA WOMEN'S SCORES 
3. Ohio State (18-1) did not play. Next: vs. Northwestern. Saturday.Ky. Wesleyan 110, Ashland 107 
TRANSACTIONS 

4. 
Indiana (21-2) beat Northwestern 105-74. Next: vs. Purdue, Sunday. Lambuth Coli. 98, Cumberland, Tenn. 79 

5. 
Arizona (18-3) at Southern California. Next: at No. 14 UCLA, Sunday. Limestone 96. Cent Wesleyan 86 

EAST 

6. 
Duke (19-4) beat No. tt Virginia 86-74. Next: vs. Maryland, Saturday.Louisiana Coil. 107, Southern. NO 105 

Alvernia 88. Misericordia 65 BASEBALL 

7. 
Syracuse (19-3) did not play. Next: at Notre Dame, Saturday. Mercer 61, Samford 55 


Amherst 61 , Wellesley 46 American League 8. St. John's (16-4) did not play. Next: at Providence, Saturday.
Army 68, Harttord 58 BOSTON RED SOX-Agreed to terms with MikeN. Carolina A&T 87, Winston-Salem 73 
9. 
North Carolina (16-4) beat N. Carolina St. 90-72. Next: vs. No. lt Virginia, Saturday. NE Louisiana 63. McNeese St. 58 

Catholic U. 56, Mary Washington 55 Greenwell, outfielder, on a four-year contract and 

10. 
Kentucky (17-4) did not play. Next: at Mississippi, Saturday. · North Carolina 92, N. Carolina St. 70 


Delaware 69, Drexel 61 Tom Brunansky, outfielder, on a two-year contract. 
tt. Virginia (17-5) lostto No. 6 Duke 86-74. Next: at No. 9 North Carolina, SaturdayOld Dominion 95, Ala. -Birmingham 87 
Fairleigh Dickinson 61, Robert Morris 60 DETROIT TIGERS-Agreed to terms with Mike 
12. 
Southern Mississippi (16-2) beat Virginia Tech 9t-79. Next: at Memphis State, Saturday.Roanoke 77, Bridgewater,Va. 66 

Franklin & Marshall 80, Dickinson 39 Henneman, pitcher, on a one-year contract 

13. 
East Tennessee State (20-2) beat Belmont Abbey tt0-70. Next: at Citadel, Saturday. SW Louisiana 94. Louisiana Tech 86, OT 


Lamar 69, Maine 68 MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms with 
t4. UCLA (17-5) beat Arizona State 64-44. Next: vs. No.5 Arizona, Sunday.South Alabama 97, Jacksonville 76 
Md.-Baltimore County 57 Cent Conn. St. 56 Mickey Brantley and Darryl Hamilton, outfielders; 
15. 
Nebraska (18-4) did not play. Next: vs. Colorado. Saturday.South Florida 76. Va. Commonwealth 70 

Mercy 100, Dowling 64 Chris Bosio and Mark Lee, pitchers, and Tim 

16. 
New Mexico State (16-2) did not play. Next: at UC lrv1ne, Saturday.Southern Miss. 91, Vrrginia Tech 79 


Moravian 98, Lebanon VaL, 51 Mcintosh, catcher, on one-year contracts. 
t7. Utah (21-2) beat Hawaii 80-60. Next: vs. San Diego State, SaturdayToccoa Falls 97, Atlanta Christian 87 
Nichols 70, Fitchburg St. 59 NEW YORK YANKEES-Designated Dave 
18. Kansas (t6-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 23 Oklahoma, Saturday.Tulane 85, Memph1s St. 69 
Penn St. 80, George Washington 69 LaPoint, pitcher. lor assignment Acquired Mike t9-. LSU (14-6) did not play. Next: vs. Georgia, Friday.
Ryder 60, Hofstra 56 Humphreys, outfielder, from the San Diego PadresTusculum 80, Bryan 78 
20. 
Georgetown (t4-6) did not play. Next: vs. Villanova, Saturday.Union, Ky. 78, Transylvania 72 

Upsala 85, Dominican, N.Y. 57 to complete an earlier trade. 

21. 
New Orleans (19-4) did not play. Next: vs. Louisiana Tech, SaturdayWebber 84, Flagler 78 

Wagner 73, Mt. St. Mary's, Md. 53 National League 

22. 
Oklahoma State (16-4) did not play. Next: at No. 18 Kansas, Saturday.William Carey 76, Livingston St. 75 

Westfield St. 60, Salem St. 45 ATLANTA BRAVES-Agreed to terms with Pete 

23. 
Oklahoma (15-7) did not play. Next: vs. Seton Hall, Saturday.Wofford 87, West Georgia 76 


West Virginia 84, Massachusetts 47 Smith, pitcher, on a one-year contract, 
24. Pittsburgh (16-7) did not play. Next: vs. Boston College, Saturday.MIDWEST 
Worcester Tech 75, MIT 54 CINCINNATI REDS-Agreed to terms with Barry 25. Michioan State (13-7) lost to Iowa 71-67. Next: at Wisconsin. Saturday.
SOUTH Larkin, shortstop, on a one-year contractAquinas 79, Northwd, M1ch. 76, OT Bridgewater, Va. 85, Randolph-Macon 66 MONTREAL EXPOS-Agreed to terms with OtisButler 57, St. Louis 55 Campbellsville 76, Pikeville 75 Nixon, outfielder. on a one·year contract. 
AP WOMEN'S TOP 25
Cent Bible 86, St. Louis Christian 51 Centre 97, Union, Ky 85Cincinnati 76, Florida St. 67 Cent Florida 95, Texas-Pan American 63 BASKETBALLColumbia, Mo. 109, Hannibal-LaGrange 87 David Lipscomb 97, Bethel, Tenn. 74 Uberty Basketball Association 
How the Associated Press' Top 25 women's teams fared Thursday:Dillard 86, Tougaloo 78 LBA ALL-STARS-Signed Maria Rivera and 1. Virginia (2t-t) did not play. . 
Creighton 71, Indiana St. 68 
Dayton 97, Loyola, Ill. 88J Evangel 85, Baker 65 Georgia 96. Clemson 59 Melanee Ehrhardt, guards. 2. Penn State (t9-t) beat George Washington 80-69. J Evansville 83, Detroit 81, OT Jackson St. 71, Mississippi Col. 61 DETROIT DAZZLERS-Signed laurie Byrd, 3. Georgia (20-2) beat No. 19 Clemson 96-59. Ky. Wesleyan 60, Ashland 59 guard. 
4. Purdue (18-1) did not play. Lincoln Memorial t 01, Milligan 80 World Basketball LeagueFerris St. 89, N. Michigan 69 
5. Tennessee (19-4) did not play. Livingston St. 65, William Carey 48 has
'] Grand Valley St. 82, Michigan Tech 64 WBL-Announced that Boca Raton, Fla., 
6. North Carolina State (19-3) did not play.I Louisiana Coli. 81, Southern, NO 62 been awarded a franchise for the 199t season. 7. Auburn (19-3) did not play. 
Indiana 105, Northwestern 74 
Iowa 71, Michigan St. 67I Lake Superior St. 89, Oakland, Mich. 78 Mercer 89, Georgia Southern 86, OT BOCA RATON JADES-Named Delray Brooks 8. Stanford (16-3) vs. Washington State. Methodist 92, Ferrum 68 vice president of basketball operations and Eric 9. Rutgers (18-2) did not play.
Lewis 91, N. Kentucky 81 
llt) 
Tusculum 74, Bryan 63 Newsome vice president of business operations. 10. Western Kentucky (18-1) did not play.
Malone 75, Shawnee St. 65 Union, Ky. 89, Blue Mountain 79 USA Basketball 
11. Arkansas (18-3) did not play. Virginia Tech 75, S. Mississippi 64 USAB--Named Randy Ayers and Don Monson 12. Washington (15-3) at California. 
Mary 75, Dickinson St. 74 
I, McKendree 90, Indiana-Southeast 76 
Xavier, NO 72, Spring Hill 63 assistant coaches for the 199t USA Pan American 13. LSU (17-4) did not play.
I) Minot St. I 07, Mayville St. 80 Missouri Baptist 68, Lindenwood 64 SOUTHWEST 
Games men's team. 14. Mississippi (t7-4) did not play.
i) 15. Texas (15-5) did not play.
Cent. Arkansas 98, Arkansas Tech 79
N. Illinois 72, Valparaiso 42
I} FOOTBALL 16. Connecticut (18-3) did not play.
E. Texas Baptist 103, Wiley 54Orchard Lake St. Mary's 106, Concordia 72 
National Football League 
t7. UNLV (18-4) did not play.
i,l Rio Grande 86, Mount Vernon Nazarene 73 Henderson St. 81, Ark.-Monticello 77 NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Announced the 18. Northwestern (12-6) did not play.
Huston-Tillotson 105, Concordia, Texas 95 resignation of Jimmy Oldham, media relations 19. Clemson (15-6) lost to No.3 Georgia 96-59.
S. Indiana 74, lnd.-Pur.-Ft. Wayne 67 Lubbock Christian 80, Panhandle St. 74Sanford Brown 67, Concordia Seminary 58 director. 
20. Notre Dame (16-3) did not play.
Southwestern, Texas 76, Schreiner 64 Wolld league ol American Football 21. Providence (19-3) did not play.
St. Ambrose 109, Clarke 79 Stephen F. Austin 99, NW Louisiana 64St. Francis, Ind. 108, Grace 92
I. NEW YORK-NEW JERSEY KNIGHTS-Named 22. Florida State (15-4) did not play.
Texas-Arlington 78, Sam Houston St. 60Valley City St. 85, Jamestown 64
i1 
Joe Haering assistant coach. 23. Michigan State (15-4) did not play.
Texas Woman's 65, Cameron 50Wayne, Mich. 73, Hillsdale 65 24. Fullerton State (16-5) did not play.
U. of the Ozarks 77, Arkansas Coli. 72Xavier, Ohio 71, Marquette 66 25. Stephen F. Austin (16-3) beat Northwestern Louisiana 99-64.
Utah 72, Texas-EI Paso 39 SOUTHWEST ' Arkansas 81 , Houston 74 Cent Arkansas 76, Arkansas Tech 70 Henderson St. 75, Ark. -Monticello 72 
Youngstown St. 82, Wis.-Milwaukee 74 
******************** 
Lubbock Christian 82. Panhandle St. 81 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT 
North Texas 73, SW Texas St. 56 Oral Roberts 92, Ark. -Pine Bluff 87 
* * 
SACRED HEART CHURCH
S. Arkansas 75, Harding 70 
~TODAY, and every FRIDAY~ 
Sam Houston St. 82, Texas-Arlington 78 Stephen F.Austin 74, NW Louisiana 68 
U. of the Ozarks 89, Arkansas Coli. 77 
Saturday, February 9 
FAR WEST 
* * 
Brigham Young 75, San Diego St. 55 
5:00pm Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. 
Montana 79, Nevada 63 
* + * 
Montana St. 83, N. Arizona 76 
Sunday, February 10 
Texas-EI Paso 57, Air Force 42 Utah 80, Hawaii 60 
10:00 am Fr. William Simmons, C.S.C. 
* * 
11:45 am Fr. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
* * 
; SPECIAL MASS for PEACE ~ 
* *
,&~ 1· *li!d 

Volentine Delivery ~ 
* + * 
Candy,lr'loYer.6/&ll<:x>M 

* *
W>-3'YJ) 

* * 
Qe l8r c$35 feb. 14tll $2/J 
* 5:15P.M. * 
I 
* STODEI rrs * 
~SACRED HEART CHURCH~ 
* * 
* + * 
* *
* * 
~ LET US PRAY TOGETHER~
~.!',~ r,'.>", 
For details 
(219) 277-8530 . 

******************** 


COLLEGE LIFE CALLS FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA. 
Delivery areas hm1ted to ensure safe drtving. 
® 

IT'S TIME FOR DOMINO'S PIZZA: 
Employment Opportunities Available. 
SUNDAY MONDAY -TUESDAY 
ANY DAY SPECIAL : I DOUBLE FEATURE : I SPECIAL 

Call Us! Notre Dame 271-0300 289-0033 st6 Ponage Ave.
ts35 South Bend Ave. 
©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 



Digger 

continued from page 24 
Fordham, he led the Rams to a 23-6 record that included an upset victory over Notre Dame. 
"I didn't really know what I was getting into," Phelps said. 

What he had was an inexperienced team that struggled to a 6-20 record. But Phelps also remembers that big loss to UCLA where Bruin coach John Wooden pressed for most of the game. 
Two years later, the Irish ended UCLA's 88-game winning streak in the ACC. That was one of many big upsets that Phelps has engineered. 
"It was two years after UCLA had really pounded us when Wooden really didn't have to do that,~ Phelps said. "Wooden pressed the whole game. That really bothered me. I looked down when they were still pressing at the end of the game and Gary Cunningham saw me. I said, 'I'm going to get you guys someday.' Two years later, we did."' 
But as the Irish program gained strength, changes in eli­gibility requirements began to take their toll. The 2.0 formula was approved after the 1973 season, which meant many players at others schools could fail a science course, ace a physical education course and still play. 
"Things started to change," Phelps said. "We're fighting one standard for admission and other schools are using this two point zero. But it takes a while to clean a cycle out." 
It did take the cycle a while to clear out, and Phelps turned in some of his best seasons. The Irish were 23-6 in 1976, 22-7 in 1977, 23-8 in 1978 and 24-6 in 1979. That 1978 team lost in the national semifinals to Duke. 
Notre Dame finally began to feel the effects of those changes in the early 1980s. The Irish turned in marks of 10-17 in 1982 and then improved to 19­10 the following season. 
Even as it became harder and harder to recruit because of academic restrictions, Phelps has still found success. His last six teams have advanced to the NCAA Tournament, and he still ranks as the best at getting his team ready for the big game. 

The 20th season has been frustrating for Phelps, who has seen his squad lose Monty Williams permanently and LaPhonso Ellis to academic 
ineligbility  for  the  second  
semester.  
On  some  occasions,  the  

cheers have even turned to boos as the Irish have posted a 9-13 record heading into Saturday's game with Syracuse. 
"I want a national title more than anybody," Phelps said. "I don't like losing. If you think I'm happy with 13 losses, you're wrong." 
But one of the big things about Phelps is that he is able to keep wins and losses in per­spective. Unlike other coaches, he doesn't always take the game home with him. 
"I don't want to die on the bench," he said. "I don't want to think that after basketball, I've got nothing to live for. My concerns aren't just basketball. They are the welfare of the kids after basketball." 
As more and more indepen­dents join conferences, the fu­ture of Notre Dame basketball remains somewhat clouded. A conference alignment is proba­bly not far away for the Irish, especially after De Paul recently announced plans to end its independent status. 
Phelps says he still takes his coaching career one year at a time, and he will probably be at Notre Dame as long as he wants. 
"I always look at it year by year," Phelps said. "I like next year's team and I like next year's freshmen. Do I want to coach next year? Yes." 
Down the road -and only he knows if it will be sooner or later -Phelps will move on, but his place will be firmly estab­lished. 
"I don't have to look over my shoulder," Phelps said. "I don't have any NCAA investigations. I don't have any kids that haven't graduated. I don't have any ju­nior college kids, I don't red-shirt and I don't have any transfers. That's not what Notre Dame is about. 
"I had a dream of coaching at Notre Dame. I wrote that letter in 1965. Nobody will ever take that dream away from me be­cause that dream became a re­ality." 
page 18 The Observer Friday, February 8, 1991 
According to Digger 
On redshirting: "My idea of redshirting is playing four years, getting your diploma, then going to Europe and playing for a year, then going to the NBA." 
On Proposition 48 players who don't graduate: "I think it's going to be interesting to see this spring if those kids have been exploited. It will be interesting to see this year if they graduate. If those statistics come out and their graduation rates are low, it means those kids are still being exploited. The college presidents have to say that these kids don't belong in college. Let them go play in Europe, let them play in the CBA or let them play in the NBA if they're good enough. But they don't belong on the college scene. People will say they're not mature enough to go to Europe. Well, we've got enough 18 and 19 year olds in Saudi Arabia. They're growing up fast. There's a big difference between being in Saudi Arabia and playing basketball in Europe. We shouldn't be the minor leagues for the NBA." 
On the SMU football death penalty: "I think the SMU death penalty scared a lot of people. What is sad is that there hasn't been a follow-up death penalty . There have been situations that could have gone death penalty and didn't. That bothers me. I think the committee on infractions has done a pretty good job of going after people. It has driven coaches out who have broken the rules. At that expense, they made compromises that if the coach goes, they've spared the program. It just bothers me. It's like playing poker with somebody and knowing he has an ace up his sleeve but you can't find it until you get beat. All of sudden, you're putting money into the pot to play another hand." 
On the UNLV situation: "I was surprised to see they got an appeal. I think if it was done the right way, in the recruiting process, the NCAA would have said that if you're going to appeal this, then tell all of those kids that you're going to recruit that we may still come back and put you on probation for what went on in 1978. I was surprised they got back in the room on the appeal process. Now all of sudden there's another case. There are 28 or 29 infractions in the Daniels case. It looks like they may go through another NCAA investigation. ·I thought that weakened the credibility of our organization, that organization being the NCAA. Personally I've got mixed emotions. It will be interesting to see if Jerry Tarkanian comes back after this year to coach UNLV. If he retires, then it looks like he beat the system and moved on. He's a friend of mine. We don't always agree on things but we're friends." 
On joining a conference: "If this school decides to go into a conference, I think it 's going to be productive. Dayton is a perfect example. Dayton was a dead ghost two years ago. They get in that conference and get hot the last weeks of the season. They upset Xavier, win the conference, go to the tournament, beat Illinois in the first round and then lose by two to Arkansas. They were two points from getting to the Final Four. That's what it did for Dayton." 
$35,000 SCHOlARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial assistance worth as much as $35,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
The Navy pays for tuition, textbooks, instructional fees and gives you an allowance of $100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. 
Upon graduation and completion of require­ments, you'll become an important part of the Navy adventure as a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy reprf'sentative for more information on this challenging and rewarding program. 
LT Tricia Vislay Naval ROTC Unit Notre Dame 239-6065n274 


.AlTV ROTC You and the Navy.
N

1i.V I. Full Speed Ahead. 
they proved early in the year was that they could shoot from the outside." 
The Irish, meanwhile, have had much more success going to junior center Keith Tower inside. Tower scored 16 points against La Salle, and had 22 at Dayton last week. 
Tim Singleton, who is now second on the all-time Irish as­sist chart, should start at point guard for Notre Dame, joining Elmer Bennett (14.3 ppg) in the backcourt. Kevin Ellery, coming off a career-best, 24-point performance versus La Salle, will likely start at one forward, and freshman Jon Ross should start at the other. Leading scorer Daimon Sweet (15.8 ppg) came off the bench against La Salle and could see relief work as a sixth man again. 

1 
l 
\ 
i l 
II 
) J I 
J 
I 
J I -/
I I I 
I 
I 
I 
l 
·.~ 
Johnson disciplined, but will play 
Observer Staff Report officials that he had a 
"relationship with a young 
Syracuse's Dave Johnson has woman that was inappropri­been disciplin.ed for his rela­ate," university spokesman tionship with a 14-year-old girl Robert Hill said. Johnson, 20, who claims Johnson had sex was given a one-year probation with her two years ago, accord­and ordered to perform com­ing to a report in USA Today. munity service, undergo coun­
Johnson, who averages 20 seling and apologize in writing points a game, told university to the girl. 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 

has proven that he can score in big games. A young but tal­ented backcourt features sophomore Michael Edwards at the point and freshman Adrian Autry at shooting guard. 
Phelps is especially wary of Johnson, who is capable of scoring in bunches, and can score inside and out. 
"People don't realize how good Johnson is in the post," Phelps said. "You look at Billy Owens and David Johnson. and those guys complement each other verv well." 
If Syracuse has a weakness, it is outside shooting. Opponents have had some success utilizing a packed-in zone defense 
··.·=:· 

.··=·\b:~<~, : Billy Owens 
against Owens, Ellis and Johnson and leaving Edwards and Autry open to shoot the threes. 
"You've got to test their perimeter shooting early so you can see what's going to happen later in the game," Phelps said, but he added that, "one thing 

Friday, February 8, 1991 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
• 
COME SEE THE IRISH WRESTLING TEAM take on No. 5 Nebraska at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the JACC. Gift certificates to Macri's Deli will be given away. 

• 
TWO IYHL MINIMITE TEAMS will be in action in two exhibition hockey games between periods one and two of tonight's Notre Dame vs. Wisconsin-Stevens Point hockey game. The Notre Dame game will begin at 7:30. 


• ND/SMC EQUESTRIAN CLUB meeting -Monday, Feb. 11 at 
8:30 p.m. in Rm. 222 Hesburgh Library to organize for the hors show at Culver Feb. 15-17. All members must attend. Any others interested in more info or in helping are welcome. Question, call Karen at 283-1715. 
• THE MEN'S VARSITY LACROSSE TEAM will scrimmage the Chicago Club team on Saturday, Feb. 9 at 11 a.m. in Loftus. 
• ND/SMC WOMEN'S LACROSEE will have a mandatory 
meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 12 at 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For information, call Cathy at 284-4456. 
• 
STUDENTS INTERESTED in 1991 Bengal Bouts promotions should attend at meeting at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 13 in the Boxing Room at the JACC. 

• 
THE ND/SMC WOMEN'S LACROSSE TEAM will have a meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 12 at 7 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For more information, call Cathy at 284-4456. 


Holyfield fight may be delayed 
ATLANTA (AP) -Donald Trump's money woes may force the heavyweight championship fight between George Foreman and Evander Holyfield ­scheduled for April 19 in Atlantic City -to be shifted to Las Vegas a week later, one of the promoters said Thursday. 
Co-promoter Bob Arum of Top Rank Inc. made the com­ment following a news confer­ence attended by both fighters and the other promoter, Dan Duva of Main Events. He said it appears the fight will be held April 26 at Caesars Palace. 
The promoters were guaran­teed $11 million by Trump to hold the fight at his Trump Plaza in Atlantic City. but Arum said Trump told him Monday he would attempt to invoke a "war clause" in the contract and r~>negotiate the fee to a re­

''THE YEAR'S MOST EXCmNG AND ENJOYABU PICTURE! 
AN EXTRAORDINARY ADULT FAIU wmt HUMOR, HEAT AND HURT,,. 
.,....... AI(UJMO 

"****!A STIMULATING, FUNNY, SEXY AND SURPRISINGLY ROMANTIC TAU." 
"****I ASTUNNING PIECE OF WORK!" 
·Dn. '*· CHK.UO JIIIUM 

"A BONFIRE OF AMOVIE 
that confinns DaYid lyMh as tht mort uciting and innoYalin filmmaktr of his ..-af1oot. Nicolas Cage and laura Dom deiiYtr ph-IptrfomMIICtl.• 
.,... T........ IOUIIIITOII ...... 

"HUNU BURNIN' LOVE! 
Spellbinding, erotic and Yef'J funny!" 
·--'llll.AII-1 

"DAVID LYliCII AT ..liST! N i c o I a 
.-.-.,,_,...lloo ...... 
IW..,_ettlte--.• ..._....... W.m.IIOST_.,.,I.... 
"1111 M05f ... I'VI NADATT'III MOYIIS Ill MOimtSI 
·WJW "
---H.-t' il • .......... u..ucmn11 

~SI'ICTACULAI SUIIIUL 
lOAD COMEDY.• 
,_t-..UM1MI ,..IUl. 
~Awaa, 
CILUY LOYI non. 
loojoy.O. --..,...-......
.,...... ....,_,,_. 
-~ 
......... 
Ill Hill I Willi 111"1' ...., .Pii'Utl PII'HIIII i1tl1--· .... OAYIO LTICI 
IICOliS CA&f IAUlA Ofll IIIlO AT NEAH. WlllfM OAf Of 
CIIIPII Gl0¥£1 OlliE 1100 ISIIHll ROSSHLIII NAill 0£11 SUITOI 
~'r:o~llliHII 111111 · 'IIIIUI IIIUI ~·~llflllltii!IU -.~:. IUI!I 1111.111111 -.~IIIII III!Uitlf lint m11 11$11;11 HUII!IIII ~lltullllll r..:...,UII! ilillll
.._.__. ____....:= _..,.,u,lum ~~· 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Cinema at the Snlte 

TONIGHT and SATURDAY 7:15 9:45 
ported $5 million-$6 million. 
Arum said Trump's proposed action came about because the entrepreneur apparently can't make a $2.5 million payment to the promoters that is due on Saturday. 
"It's apparent Mr. Trump can't perform the contract terms," said Arum. "In that case we will move the fight to Las Vegas. It also may be post­poned a week to April 26 be­cause of an earlier commitment by Caesars." 
Arum said the original con­tract with Trump was signed Jan. 12, but amended Jan. 20 after the war in the Persian Gulf began. 
He said a provision in the contract said the fight could be postponed due to an act of God or a war, but "short of an in­vasion of Atlantic City by 
~A IIYl1IIG IOYIIIII 
...........,.................
-...-..-­
,_,....., ....w_.ws 
lo,.,.., ___
"****I
0.HILL Of AIIIII 
....................... 
......_.~""-­
The Observer 

Women 
continued from page 24 
she said. "It's much more fun to play in front of a large crowd, even if it is hostile. It won't affect us." 
Senior All-American candi­date Karen Robinson (15.3 ppg, 
5.2 apg) will play a prominent role in the Notre Dame attack. McGraw calls her "a money player," and expects her to shoulder the extra burden easily. 
"She did it for us at Stanford earlier this season," McGraw said. "This is the kind of game which she looks forward to. It brings out the best in her." 
Robinson, for her part, is trying to stay calm and relaxed preparing for Saturday. She realizes that while her part is important, only a solid team ef­fort will earn the victory. 
"We need to execute our of­fense," Robinson said. "Everyone has to figure, 'It's just another game.' We have to 
Volleyball 
After several months of practice, the men's volleyball team has begun its regular season, jumping out to a. 6-2 record. 
Last weekend, the team played in the 32-team Michigan Tournament tournament. Teams traveled from as far as Buffalo and Ontario, Canada to play in the invitational tourney. 
The Irish dominated in pool play, defeating Calvin College, Ohio Wesleyan, Northwestern, and Bowling Green consecutively. 
However, the first game of single-elimination marked Notre Dame's downfall, as Michigan State downed the Irish for the second time this season. The loss dropped the Irish to the bottom of the top ten for the weekend. 
Outstanding performers for the Irish this season include Dave Bose, who had 15 kills, and Tim Demasi, who registered 18 digs . against 
It's Carol's 
19th Birthday, and she's heading for VIXEN Country!! 
IMH, 
Pre-game pec1 
for all men's and women~s~ 
~ 

NO Basketball games 
Q:9

1 MEAL FULL PRICE 
COMPARABLE MEAL HALF PRICE! 
6i) 
....... ;••".,
PASTA DISHES 
LASAGNA FETTUCINE ALFREDO MANICOTTI 
~k:~H 
CACCIATORE COCKTAILS 
~ ..~t!~l~ 
IIEEA • WINE Dinner 4PM-t tPM Rr'storante" 
BANQUET OPEN SUN & Closed Mon 
ROOM 
Please present ~h~sg. 232•4244 
· South Of Notr• OIIMS' Goldftl ~ 
coupon when ordenng 1412 south Bend Avtmu• 
concentrate on the little things-execute the offense, set good picks, play pressure de­fense-and worry about our­selves, not on who we're play­ing." 
Tennessee is led by All­American Daedra Charles, a 6­3 senior from Detroit. Charles scored 28 points and grabbed 13 rebounds against the Lady Bulldogs on Tuesday, and aver­ages 16.3 points and eight re­bounds on the season. She defi­nitely is the key to the Volunteer attack. 
6-1 junior Margaret Nowlin 
(10.2 ppg, 6.5 rpg) draws the defensive assignment against Charles, and McGraw has con­fidence that she is up to the task. 
"I think Margaret can handle her, but it's a situation where we're going to have to keep (Charles) from getting the ball, because once she gets it, she's going to score," McGraw said. 
6-1 junior Debbie Hawhee 
(3.4 ppg, 2.0 rpg) is a role player who has come off the 
club posts 

Rolando de Aguiar Club Corner 
Ferris State. Setter Dan Kavanaugh contributed 29 assists and 10 digs in Notre Dame's first loss to Michigan State, and co-captains Tom Martin and Dave Bose have both given solid defensive support to the team. 
The team travels next to Kentucky to compete in the North-South Classic, and has its next home matchup January 18 against Baldwin-Wallace College. 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Skiing Team traveled to Ohio 
page 19 
bench most of her career, but was recently inserted into the starting lineup by Coach Pat Summit. She teams in the frontcourt with Peggy Evans 
(9. 7 ppg, 6.1 rpg), who was Michigan's Miss Basketball last season. 
Junior Dena Head (13.3 ppg, .625 three-point percentage), an All-SEC performer last year, and freshman Nikki Caldwell 
(10.0 ppg), a 1990 Street & Smith's and USA Today All­American, comprise the Volunteers' starting backcourt. 
Off the bench, Tennessee's main weapons are 6-0 sopho­more Lisa Harrison (7 .0 ppg, 
5.1 rpg) and 5-4 point guard Jody Adams (7.9 ppg, 2.6 apg). 
Robinson and Nowlin most likely will be joined in the Irish starting lineup by senior Krissi Davis (12.5 ppg, 5.8 rpg). sophomore point guard Coquese Washington (8.9 ppg, 
4.9 apg) and either freshman Andrea Alexander (1.5 ppg) or senior Sara Liebscher (7.5 ppg). 
6-2 record 
last weekend and made their 
best performances of the 
year. 
Bob Reioh led the men to a 
first-place showing at the 
Ohio Governor's Cup, copping 
second-and third-place 
trophies in the giant slalom 
and slalom, respectively. Tim 
Peterson finished 5th for the 
Irish in the Giant Slalom, and 
Pete Saine came across in 
tenth place. 
In the slalom, five Irish 
finished in the top ten, as P.J. 
O'Rourke, Mike Sheehan, 
John Gerosa, and Pete Saine 
joined Reich in the elite 
group. 
Notre Dame's women also 
garnered a first-place trophy 
this weekend. as JoJo Gehl 
finished first in both the 
slalom and giant slalom to 
lead the Irish charge. Bridget 
Underwood achieved sixth 
place honors in both events, 
and Mary Schultz and Ann 
Laing furthered the Irish 
effort with top-15 times. 
Barton wins at Rolex; DiLucia is defeated 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's Tracy Barton 
upset eighth-ranked Evelin 
Hamers of Kansas in the first 
round of the Rolex National 
Indoor Tennis Championship on 
Thursday in Minneapolis. 
Barton, the 28th-ranked 
player in the country, won by 
scores of 6-2, 6-3. 
In the men's Notre Dame's 
David DiLucia was upset by 
Bent Pederson of California 4­
6, 6-4, 6-4. DiLucia, the sixth­
ranked player in the nation, 
was hampered by a nagging toe 
injury. 
~ 

UNLV vs. Arkansas: top two teams will clash on Sunday 
"There's never been a regu­lar-season game with so much hype and expectation. I think it's great for the people here to bring a game of this magnitude to Barnhill." 
That's Barnhill Arena. Arkansas' homecourt with a capacity of 9,000, half of the crowd to watch these teams last season at UNLV's Thomas & Mack Center. Barnhill crowds are among the loudest, staunchest and toughest in the country, but the Runnin' Rebels thrive on that and even play up to the road crowds. 
This crowd appears ready for the challenge. 
"The students started camp­ing out today for the first-come, first-served seats," Richardson said Tuesday. "It's like we don't have another game left after this. The people think this is something they have to be here for. This is what's happening. It's been a hectic week." 
It was for Jerry Tarkanian as well. The coach of the Runnin' Rebels was being besieged by 
P.I.M.E. MISSIONARIES 
Fulfilling one's life through a missionary vocation 
~ 
The Pontific:lt~e lor Foreign Missions (the PIME MiUI&llwiee) is en inlemalional com­munity ol Clllliclc: priests and laymen who make a lilelong commitment to continuing the misaion of -'-~ In the modern world. 
w. live the Golpelln Elengladesh, Brazil. Hong Kong, India. Japen, Myanmar, Papua New Guii!N, PhllippiMs. Taiwan, Thailand end West Alrica among the poor and unchurched. 
Founded In bly In 1850, a group of diOce­san prieStS, at 1118 encou...gement ol their bilhopa, grww In their underslanding ol just pre­cisely what God was calling them to be. A mi&­sionary must be open to dialogue, prayer end semess serviCe. especially to the poor. The mis­sionary must learn hOW to be a sign ol shared faith between well established European and American local churches and peoples where the Church is just beginning. The missionary must knOW hOW to announce the Kingdom of God while b8ing a Ioree lor transformation of those societal values which do not build up lhet Kingdom. 
If you are a young man between 18 and 35, in good health and spirits, excited to live your faith in the miSsiOnary way described above. send in or call lor information today. 
Fr. John J, MIIJka PillE MISSIONARIES 35750 Moravian Dr. FRASER, MICHIGAN 48026 Phone (313) 781·2100 

callers, some from the media, 
the rest looking for a ticket. 
"They're crying for tickets," 
he said. "They only gave us 30 
and there are a lot of people 
who want to go. All they have 
to figure out is how to get a 
ticket." 

What will be harder to figure 
out is which will give first -
UNLV's swarming pressure de­
fense which turns instantly into 
its offense or Arkansas' frantic 
pace at both ends of the court. 
It's hard to imagine either 
team changing its style in any 
way. 

"We don't ever talk about the 
other teams," Tarkanian said. · "We prepare ourselves physi­cally, mentally and emotionally and play the way we can and 
the way we talked about." 
That means averaging 103.6 
points per game, while holding 
opponents to 38 percent shoot­
ing and forcing an average of 
20 turnovers per game. 
"They are number one for a 
reason," Richardson said. 
"They have a great team and 
they can do so much." 
Arkansas, which lost to Arizona in the preseason NIT final, averages 100.3 points per game and has also turned turnovers into points, forcing 22 per game. 
"We know their team from last year and we know how tough they can be," Tarkanian said. 
Last year's game, the first ever between the schools, was won by UNLV 101-93 and what happened then could be a key to Sunday. 
Most of the scoring came from the guards on both teams, but UNLV managed to get some help from the frontcourt. 
Arkansas has to stop for­wards Larry Johnson, who leads UNLV at 22.7 per game, and Stacey Augmon, next at 
17.4. The bulk of the defensive responsibility for the Razorbacks up front falls to Oliver Miller, a 6-foot-9 junior known for his bulk and blocks. 
"No question Big 0 will be a key factor and we have to keep him in the game," Richardson said. 

AP Photo 

Oliver Miller and the Arkansas Razorbacks will attempt to reject the top­ranked Runnin' Rebels of UNLV on Sunday. 
I 
ll\ 
' I )\I 
ll 
l 
jl 
I 
) 

(AP)-March Madness comes early. Just about a month early and in the form of what could be one of the best college bas­ketball games in recent years: No. 1 UNLV at No. 2 Arkansas. 
The rankings alone make Sunday's matchup a treat so rare that there have only been nine games between Nos. 1 and 2 in the last 10 seasons. 
Now add in some other fac­tors: 
-UNLV's 29-game winning streak, 18 this season, and the Runnin' Rebels' defense of a national championship that was taken away and returned amid some hard feelings. 
-Arkansas' 22-1 mark that includes 19 straight wins and the Razorbacks' determination to make their farewell season in the Southwest Conference a rousing success. 
It gives you a game worthy of the attention and hype it has received. 
"This has been a bigger buildup than the Final Four," Arkansas coach Nolan Richardson said. He should know about Final Fours since 
the Razorbacks joined the Runnin' Rebels there last year. 


FREE FOOD & DRINK RENT 1 VIDEO AT THE REGULAR PRICE AND GET A SECOND ONE FORONLY$1 
NEW MOVIES:  DAYS OF THUNDER  
DIEHARD II  CINEMA PARADISO  
NAVY SEALS  TAKING CARE OF  
PROBLEM CHILD  BUSINESS  
~  
........ _..  
'  ""'  

Friday, February 8, 1991 The Observer page 21 
Women's tennis team will host first matches of spring 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 
tennis team will be in action 
with its first home dual 
matches when the Irish host 
Kansas State on Saturday and 
Purdue on Monday. 
The Irish (3-0) look to con­tinue their strong play from last weekend, when they began the season by winning their first three matches on the road. The team is full of talent, and last weekend's excellent start certainly helped their confi­dence. 
Said Irish coach Jay Louderback, "I have a lot of confidence in a lot of our play­ers. They really came through [last weekend] in singles and doubles, especially at Wisconsin." 
Freshman Terri Vitale noted, "Everyone is playing really well. We're playing with a lot of confidence and it will be great when we get Christy (Faustmann) back." 
Faustmann has been sidelined this season with mononucleosis and seemed quite anxious to get back on the court. "I have been off my feet for almost a month. I probably won't be playing this weekend. but my condition has improved and I'm hoping to be back for next weekend," she said. 
Next weekend, the Irish travel to Bloomington to take on Indiana and South Carolina, two nationally-ranked teams, and William and Mary. also a strong tennis program. The Irish will have to make sure they do not look ahead to those upcoming matches. 
Senior captain Kim Pacella said, "We have to say focused on one match at a time and 
make sure we don't have a let­
down." 
Junior first singles player Tracy Barton left on Wednesday to compete in the Rolex National Indoors, a tournament consisting of the top players in the country. Said Louderback, "She played really well last weekend. She was down 3-6, 1-3 and played a set and a half of as good of tennis as I've ever seen her play." 
Barton, currently ranked 28th in collegiate tennis, will likely miss Saturday's match against Kansas State, but Louderback said, "There are no bad players at this tournament, and it will be good for Tracy to get a chance to play some of the top people." 
The Purdue match, originally scheduled for Friday, was moved to Monday, February 11th, at 4 p.m. due to both Barton and Purdue's first sin­gles player being at the National Indoors this weekend. Also, had she been healthy, Christy Faustmann would have been at that tournament, earn­ing an invitation with her strong performance during the fall season. 
The Kansas State contest will begin at 10 a.m. Saturday. Both home matches will be held at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish are playing well and are full of potential. It will be important for them to concen­trate on this weekend's matches and not look ahead, but the team is showing the de­velopment that coach Louderback has wanted. 
"We had a very solid win against Wisconsin. I talked to Jay and he was very pleased with how we played," Faustmann said. 
This girl thinks that she's in heaven .. Her I.D. says she's 27! The bouncer said, "You c:an't fool me." .. I and 

promptly ripped her fake I.D~ But now, at last she'll have some fun today she's finally 21!
I I I 
'WaP:fJ!f ~t}utU t}~ February 10, 1991 
ready and stock up for Spring Break 
WlTH THIS ADI FOR A VERY LIMITED T~MEI EXPIRES 10 DAYS AFTER PUBLICATION CALL TODAY 272-7653 
FUNTAN, INC., STATE ~D 23 UNIVERSITY COMMONS, SOUTH BEND. IN 
Irish hit road for big meet 

SMC swimmers to face Illinois Benedictine 
By HUGH MUNDY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's 
track team faces its biggest 
challenge of the early season 
as the squad travels to 
Purdue University this 
weekend for the Central 
Collegiate Championships. 
The meet, which features powerhouses from throughout the Midwest, including Eastern Michigan, Wisconsin, and Illinois, begins tonight and continues through Saturday. 
Irish coach Joe Piane believes the key to his squad's success lies in its ability to score points in a variety of events. 
"Consistency across the board is a major factor," Piane said, "If we get a decent performance from all our guys, we should be in good shape." 
Piane will look to a host of athletes to keep the squad in contention and improve upon last year's fifth place finish. 
"We have more depth this year than in previous seasons," Piane said. "Consequently, we won't have to rely on any one area for all our points." 
Irish captain Ryan Cahill leads a talented trio of distance runners who will compete in tonight's 5,000 meter run. Cahill will return Saturday to anchor the distance medley relay, an 
The Observer/ Kenneth Osgood 

The Notre Dame track team will travel to Purdue for the Central Collegiate Championships this weekend. 
event which Notre Dame captured in 1990. 
The Irish will be heavily rep­resented in the middle distances as well, as junior standout Brian Peppard, senior Mark Lavery, and junior Neil Mulrooney will attempt to bet­ter the IC4A qualifying mark in the 1,000 meter run. 
In the sprints, the hopes of Notre Dame will again rest upon the talented shoulders of Raghib "Rocket" Ismail and freshman speedster Willie Clark, who combined for a one-two finish at th'e Meyo meet. 


Other potential contributors on the track include quarter miler Scott Vandenburg, milers Shawn Schneider and 
J.T. Burke, and distance specialist Nick Radkewich, who will compete at 3,000 meters. 
In the field, Notre Dame will look to Greg Matteo to continue his consistent pole vaulting and IC4A qualifier John Cole to surpass the seven-foot barrier in the high jump. 
said Belles' diving coach Dan 
Slattery. "I think competition 
for first will be tough." 
Both Mahoney and Collins came to Saint Mary's diving the one meter. Neither had a diving coach in high school and had to teach herself how to dive. As Collins explained, she dove out of necessity for her high school team. 
"I was a senior captain of the swim team and we were short in divers-we didn't have a any. So I stepped in and dove." 
When the girls joined the div­ing team, one of the first things diving coach Dan Slattery taught them was the three me­ter. 
"Both came in diving the one meter. Now they've been learn­ing the three meter which is like a new sport," said Slattery. 
Though she is only a fresh­man, both Mahoney and her coach foresee a bright diving future. 
"I feel like I've improved a lot and I'm not far from nationals. If I don't go this year, I will go next." 
"Erin I see as being a top­notch diver. I hope to see her qualify for nationals in the next two years," added Slattery. 
Meanwhile, Collins has been doing double duty for the Belles, both diving and swim­ming the 50 free, 100 free and the butterfly. For Collins, this is a challenge she not only ac­cepted in high school. but in college as well. 
"As a diver, I think I'm the team's flexibility," explained • Collins. "If they need me in a sprint event, Dennis puts me in. If they need me on boards, I dive." 
Both now are preparing for tomorrow's meet. While .. Slattery holds }1igh expectations for the divers, they just want consistency. 
"I just want to be consistent. I haven't set any goals for to­morrow," Mahoney said. 

By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's diving team has enhanced its strength with its freshmen divers Erin Mahoney and Kelly Collins. . The Belles will need this 
strength as the swimming and diving team (4-3) heads into Illinois Benedictine College to­morrow where the diving team will face a strong competition in diving. 
"They've got one diver whose already qualified for nationals," 
5:00-8:00 


1.9J.iad')ls.o•., P>CTUR£1 
lack London's 
4:45 7:30 9:45 
PG-13 

Steve Martin 
5:00-7:30-9:45 
WHITE FANG 
4:45-7:00-9:30 
-

Irish hockey squad will host two over weekend 

By RICH KURZ 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team will have its hands full this weekend when the fifth-ranked team in the country skates into town to take on the Irish at 
7:30 p.m. Friday and Saturday night at the Joyce ACC. 
Never mind that it's the fifth­ranked team in Division III. The Wisconsin-Stevens Point Pointers are for real. 
"This team is good," said Irish coach Ric Schafer. "They're 18-6, and I'd guess they haven't lost more than 10 games in the past couple years." 
Not only are the Pointers ranked fifth this year, they're two-time defending Division III champions. With that kind of history, they are surely a force to be reckoned with. 
"We don't know what to ex­pect," said junior captain David Bankoske, "but you have to re­spect a record like that." 
They are led by Paul Caufield, who has an incredible 46 points ! I : in 24 games, with 24 goals and 
~ 
page 22 The Observer Friday, February 8, 1991 
The Irish are coming off an  
impressive road trip at Air  
Force in which they lost  a  
tough game 7-6, then came  
back the next night to win 4-1  
on the strength of 39 saves by  
goalie Greg Louder.  
After having had offensive  
difficulties much of the year,  
the Irish attack is starting to  
get in gear.  
"We were 5 for 14 on the  
power play last weekend," said  
Schafer. "They know they're  
capable of that (again)."  
Bankoske said, "All the lines  
are contributing, and the· top  
three all have been scoring."  
With only six games left in the  
season, the Irish are glad to be  
home for four games before  
they take part in the Jeep/Eagle  
Independent  Hockey  
Tournament in Anchorage,  
Alas.  
"We're definitely more confi­ 
dent in the friendly confines of  
the JACC," said Bankoske.  
No matter where the game is  The Observer/Scott McCann  
played, the Irish will have to perform at a high level to beat the Pointers.  Notre Dame goalie Greg Louder, who was sensational last weekend against Air Force, will start vs. Wisconsin-Stevens Point.  


I ' By DAVE DIETEMAN 
I ': 
Sports Writer
) 'i I I 
Like the phoenix of Greek

I ! 
mythology, the Notre Dame
I ,; 
wrestling team looks to rise to greatness from its ashes. 
Tongiht at 7:30 p.m. at the Joyce ACC, the Irish will take to the mats for the first time since their devastating 51-0 loss to second-ranked Iowa. Yet Notre Dame's reconstruction will not be easy by any stretch of the imagination, as the Irish face their second powerhouse oppo­nent of the season: the Nebraska Cornhuskers. 
The Notre Dame has com­piled a 2-5 record in the life­time series with the Cornhuskers, who have been on the Irish schedule every year since 1984 -the first year under coach Fran McCann. Last year, Nebraska rolled the Irish 
! 
30-8 en route to compiling a 21-2-1 season record. Also, the last Notre Dame victory over Nebraska came in 1987-88, when the Irish triumphed 21­

I 
1 jl 
IH 18. This season, coach Tim Neumann's Cornhuskers have
I ; ! 
enjoyed the experience of six
I i 
I 
I 
I 
I 
lj I 
22 assists, and Scott Krueger (16g, 19a). 
Part of the reason for the success of Stevens Point is the NCAA guidelines which allow Division III institutions to utilize athletes who are too old to play in Division I. 
"They don't have the same age limitations we do. They have a 27 -year old goaltender," said Schafer. "They get a lot of former junior league players. who enter college when they're 
19. They're more experienced players." And that experience can pay big dividends. 
"I don't know about their tal­ent, but in hockey, if you have a couple more years experience, you'll have an advantage," said Bankoske. 
Junior Mike Curry, who scored two goals last weekend, said, "They have a lot of really good players. They'll be a good team." 
Notre Dame has played the Pointers only twice, with Stevens Point winning at home in 1987 and the Irish winning at the JACC in 1988. 
I I! 
I NO wrestlers will try to rise from ashes in match vs. Cornhuskers
., '! 

The Observer/David Lee The Irish will host Nebraska Friday 7:30p.m. at the Joyce ACC. 
returning starters, while going 8-5. As recently as last week, the Huskers were ranked fifth by the Amateur Wrestling News. Since that time, however, they have dropped a pair of matches and should slip in the poll. 
Whatever the circumstances may prove to be, the Irish plan to be ready. 
"This is going to be a tough match," admitted McCann, ever the realist. "We will probably have to hold back two kids (Chris Jensen and J.J. McGrew) 
who are out because of injury. I 
don't like doing that, but we really feel that we've got to be healthy to beat our last three opponents and go into the re­gional tournament on a high." 
Jensen (118 pounds) and McGrew (177), both freshmen, each suffered injuries during Notre Dame's loss to Iowa. Luckily for the Irish, the Cornhuskers do not have the 
DON'T MAKE YOUR VALENTINE WAIT! 
Order your Valentine's Day flowers for early delivery 
on February 1Oth, 11th, or 12th and receive a Valentine Mylar Balloon 
ABSOLUTELY FREE! 
I J 
•.II 
:~ l Linda's Flower Market 2128 South Bend Avenue
lj
I. 
South Bend. In 46637 
''~ ', , I "in town delivery only. 
call 272-0902 
I ( 
I I 
!
ld 
luxury of a healthy team, ei­ther. 
Nebraska's two injured wrestlers-John Buxton (ranked seventh at 118) and Jason Kehler (ranked second at 126)-will not wrestle at their regular weights. The rules of wrestling allow for a competi­tor to wrestle at a weight class higher, but not lower, than his usual weight. Because of this rule, Buxton will face Notre Dame's Marcus Gowens at 126 pounds, while Kelber will likely square off against Brian Foy of the Irish at 134 pounds. 
"Nebraska is a little banged up also at this time of the year," explained McCann. "Some of their guys will still wrestle, but they are not in great shape at this time of the year. I think that we can expect to win at least five matches." 
Yet aside from winning a set number of matches from the Cornhuskers, McCann is also concerned about how to moti­vate his squad. 
"After Iowa, we came back to reality," noted McCann. "It was a tough time to go up against Iowa because they are having three-a-day workouts to pre­pare for the NCAA champi­onships. I was discouraged, but we can take some comfort in the fact that there is no one tougher than Iowa was. 
"Mentally, our team is fine. I only wish that we were healthy. 

f 
·-------' •
DI.JelnloOur 


,. 
{ 
• 
golden brown. Served with rice or potato. ' ;-.-· I
\}' 7 . /
~~:..>'! {;/~
Fisherman'sPlatter 

1;./lj ,::0 ·-<v Shrimp, stuffed crab, fish fillet and clams. ~---?·./Served with rice or potato. . 
( StartingAI
•$4 99* 
of fried, charbroiled and scamp1-style shnmp.  ·  .· •. ... . ·.  .  
Served with rice or potato.  ·•  

.SHONEYS,
SeafoodFestiwl
l 
® 
I 
• 
~~' \W'/--

Shrint !/.'. ~ vJ . \ ~~-.. . f~~ ·"·.·' 
r.ollliJ!' \ ' ~· (l ( 1 ~.. J 
A generous serving~···...1 (! '-..-~ J
,} ')'\ 
"24-PifteShrimpDinner I 
Li¥htly breaded fried shrimp.
Served w1th nee or potato. 
cl.o ~"'­
J'~'t . ·. "";/ ' 
· · Every dinner includes 
s!l:r~ i 
.::~,=~ ."'"""( 

'-l 
The Observer Friday, February 8, 1991 
·­

CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32"Ain't­54 Striving for 
Friday 
truth?" goodness, but 
1 "WhatGod­
34ln-and-out time faulty
joined ..." 
5:15 p.m. Prayer for Peace. Sacred Heart Church. 
period 58--vera ..
5 Art cult 
35 Desperado's 59 Kite's home 
9 Thick, heavy air 
7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film. "Wild at Heart." weapon 60 Old-fashioned13Limpas­
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 36 Kind of card individual 14 Argentine 
38 Wharton hero 61 Semiaquatic
bigwig 
39 Hasp. test salamander 
15Cap-­
40Watersor 62 Despot
16 "Both Your 
Barrymore &31cy massSaturday Houses" 41 In which D.D.E. 
playwright 
headed E.T.O. 19 Michelangelo
7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Wild at Heart." 42 Libel DOWN 
sculpture
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum. 44lnfused 
1 Shortwave buff 
20 Egyptian god 
47 Cole Porter's 

2 Notcare­
21 Not clearly 
"Bingo­

visible 3 N.Y.C. yellow
Yale" 

streaker
24 Nourished 
48 Kind of display 

4 "War of the
25 Comfortably 49 Enter 
Worlds" author 
MENU situated impetuously 
5 Singer Shannon 
28 Over again 51 Writer Gardner 
6 Football 
31 Blathers and namesakes 
commentator Parseghian 7 ·-disturb"
Notre Dame ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Connective words Baked Pollock Sesame 9 Careless Swedish Meatballs with Mushroom Sauce person 25 Carried on 41 Prosperous 52 Chemical Pork Tenderloin Sandwich 10 Topsy-turvy 26 Reason out 43 Part of a fly compound Vegetable Rice Casserole 11 Bravo and Mayo 27 "Excelsior" 45 Sharp-crested 53 Trumpet-shaped 12 Berry or Venturi author ridge lily Saint Mary's 14 "The Republic" 28 U.S. painter­46 Ruffed lemur 
54 Lusterless 55 Stat for Clemens 

writer sculptor: 
48 Some garden 
S&Amiram-,

1869-1953
r.=t~=+:::+=-~:-+.:+:i'!"!i-lllill-:::-t=~ n Maine, e.g., to parties
Baked Fish Iran-contra
Pierre 29 Hawkins or
Cheeseburger 
49 Soccer great figure
18 French tower Thompson
Herbed Baked Chicken 50 Midge 57 Recolor
builder 30 Bone at base of Deli Bar 22 Bunker's the tongue spouse 33 Complete: Answers to any three clues in this 23 "Mark Antony Comb. form puzzle are available by touch-tone shall say I am 36 U.S. spacecraft phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each -":Shak. 37 Hot time in Paris minute). 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 



.. 

-~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~~=~=~=~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~~~~~;~~r~=~=~=~=~t~I~t;~;~t~~=~=~=~=~~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=!=!=!=~=~=~=!=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=!=~=~=!=~=!=!=!=!=!=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~= \\\\\\~ AtW\q, suB Executive Council Applications for 1991-92 :\)\!\!)
A 

um. tf..~~ Now available from the Secretary, 2nd Floor LaFortune :fm 
0 




-
Cushing Auditorium
o~Q 

0<( <( 
~<y':> 8:00 and 10:30 P.M. 

.. 
·~i0 ~'-l~ 

~mt ~(y AdmiSSion: $2 STUDENT UNION BOARD 
·f~b!{:::?!=~=~~~~~=~~~~~~~~~=~=~=~=~=;=~=~=~=~=~=~=?:=~=~=~t=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~t=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~J=~=~=;=~=~=!=!=!=~=!=t~!~!?~!~!!!!!;!;!;!~!;!r;!!i!~t!!!i!i~i!i!i!ti!i!i?!i!!!ir!r=~~=~:;:;:;:;:~~:;:~=~=!=!=!=!=!=~=!=!=!=!=!=~!=m:;: 
Sports 
page 24 Friday, February 8, 1991 
Women will face big test versus No.5 Tennessee 
By RENE FERRAN Tennessee have beaten Sports Writer Louisiana Tech this season: the Irish in December in the first 
The Notre Dame women's round of the Texaco-Hawk basketball team has a huge op­Classic, 71-66, and the portunity to silence its critics Volunteers only last Tuesday in this weekend. Ruston, La., 77-74. 
The 20th-ranked Irish (16-3) Tennessee has won two na­travel to Knoxville for a tional championships in the last matchup with fifth-ranked four seasons (1987, 1989) and Tennessee (19-4) tomorrow participated in 10 Final Fours. evening at 5 p.m. After several Last year, the Volunteers were weeks of cruising through con­knocked out of the playoffs in ference play, Notre Dame rel­the finals of the East Regional ishes the chance to see how it by Virginia-currently ranked compares with one of the No. 1 in the country. biggest names in women's bas­Tomorrow night's game is ketball. part of a doubleheader with the 
"We're looking forward to it," men's team, and Thompson­Coach Muffet McGraw said. Boling Arena has been sold out. "We're tired of playing weak But McGraw believes the Irish teams. After Louisiana Tech are ready to handle this type of the competition level dropped pressure. off, and we got a little compla­"We definitely can handle it," cent." 
Both Notre Dame and
r 
see WOMEN I page 19

I 
By GREG GUFFEY graduated, a mark that might Students have only four years, Sports Editor never be touched by any other but I've had 20 years." college coach. • •• 
The first year definitely Mter 20 years, the more col­Phelps grew up the son of an wasn't the best year for Notre lege basketball has changed, undertaker and earned his Dame basketball coach Digger the more Phelps has stayed the nickname while working at his Phelps. same. He preaches the same father's funeral home. He 
Indiana pounded the Irish by ideals, and he still won't red­graduated from Rider and 65 points and UCLA followed shirt or take junior college planned to enter the family suit with a 58-point victory, and players or accept transfers. business after embalming Kentucky ended the string with "I still enjoy coaching," he school at Syracuse. a 16-point win. Three losses in said. "I really love the college But he spent the summer nine days by 139 points. game. I think it's a fun game after graduating from Rider as 
After the loss to Kentucky, where you put strategies to­the coach of a summer league Phelps received a call from le­gether and put them in the basketball team and he sud­gendary Wildcat coach Adolph gameplan. There are still some denly had the fever. Phelps Rupp. Finally, Phelps thought, interesting concepts here." spent his time between funerals some encouragement from one But he is also quick to add at the home of a local high of the masters. that the real reason he is still in school coach diagramming 
"He said 'Two weeks ago you that first seat on the bench is various offensive and defensive lost to IU by 65, you lost to because of the players and his schemes. UCLA by 58,'" Phelps recalled. strong commitment to the ide­It was also about this time "He said, 'Tonight, we only beat als of Notre Dame. It appears that Phelps wrote a letter to you by 16. What do you think is that he and Notre Dame are a Ara Parseghian, saying how wrong with my team?' I just perfect match. much he would someday like to thought, 'Wow.'" "Mter 20 years of being here, coach at Notre Dame. He said 
But 20 years and many victo­it probably has the most power­his vision of Notre Dame actu­ries later, Phelps has solidly ful impact of a commitment, ally began as a kid when he established himself among the moral commitment and ethical and friends would play pick-up collegiate coaching elite. commitment," he said. It's be­football games and pretend it 
His career record of 353-168 yond education. These people was Army against Notre Dame. ranks among the best in college who get out of here can influ­The dream came true less basketball. He has 13 20-win ence change. Students here can than a decade after writing that seasons, has taken one team to be role models in every com­letter when he took over the the Final Four and has beaten munity they go to. Irish program after assistant more top-ranked teams than "Any kid who gets out of here coaching stops at Penn and any other coach. can go in any direction. That's head coaching stops at a. junior 
But the most important the real impact I've seen. I'm high, St. Gabriel's High School statistic is that all 54 players proud to have been here to wit­and Fordham. In one year at who have played four years of ness that. It's like I've gone basketball for Phelps have through here five times. 
see DIGGER/ page 18 
1 . 
I Irish hope to get victory train rolling at home vs. Syracuse 
! 
l J By KEN TYSIAC just have to beat some good ketball. The 6-9 junior can re­Associate Sports Editor teams," Phelps said. "When we bound and score inside, but he take a look at this week for us, also can shoot the threes, han­Wednesday's 84-68 victory a win over Syracuse could re­dle the ball in the open court, over La Salle put the Notre ally help us, especially when we and find the open man as well 
Dame men's basketball team dominated La Salle the way we as anybody in the nation. 
back on the right track. Coach did." "Syracuse is a very talented 
Digger Phelps hopes to get the Last year the Irish recorded basketball team," Phelps said.
I victory train rolling toward the one of their biggest triumphs of "Billy Owens is one of the
I 
NCAA tournament Saturday at the season against Syracuse in premier players in the country.ll 2 p.m. when the Irish host No. the Carrier Dome when Elmer He would probably be a lottery _/; 7 Syracuse at the Joyce ACC. Bennett beat the buzzer with a pick if he went (in the NBA Despite their 9-13 record, the three-pointer from the top of draft) this year. He can score, Irish think they still have a the key. Bennett's shot gave obviously, but he also is an un­
I i 
chance to get into the tourna­Notre Dame a 66-65 victory selfish player." , r ment because they have played and sent Phelps skittering joy­But the Orangemen are :I one of the most difficult sched­ously across the court for a hardly a one-man team. LeRon
I: 
. i ules in the nation. A victory victory dance which made ev­Ellis (11.1 ppg, 7.7 rpg), in his 
""' over the Orangemen (19-3), if erybody's 11 p.m. highlight second year at Syracuse after I ~ followed by more impressive reel. transferring from Kentucky, is I' wins, could possibly get Notre Syracuse is led by certain All­also strong inside, and swing­
l 
) ! Dame into the tournament. American Billy Owens. Owens man David Johnson (20.3 ppg) "I think if you look at our sit­(22.6 ppg) may be the best all­uation with 10 games left, we around player in college bas-
see HOOPS/ page 18 

} I 
w 









