

1842 1992 Sl SQUoC! Nil NNIAL 
e server ~!.: 



VOL. XXIV NO. 69 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gorbachev: republics not able to decide fate 
MOSCOW (AI') -Mikhail c;orhaehnv. whose political dnath has bnPn rPportnd many timns, attnmpted anothnr re­birth Monday by dnelaring Boris Ynltsin and tlw leaders of two otlwr Slavic republics did not haVP the right to dedde thn 
• Future of nuclear arrsenal/ page 5 
fatn of the entire nation. 
c;orbadwv called for convo­cation of the Congress of I'Pople's DeputiP.s and possibly a national referendum. hoping that widespread fear of chaos and hunger would fuel a popu­lar rnovPnwnt to preserve the Sovil't Union. 
Tlw Soviet l1~ader was taken hy surprisn Sunday when the lPadnrs of Hussia. Ukraine and Byelorussia pronounced the Sovil't Union dead and formed a eommonwealth of independent states in its wake. 
But Gorbachev bounced back Monday. meeting with Yeltsin and the leaders of other re­publics in an ell'ort to preserve his central government and his politieal future. 
Gorbachev said the "declaration that the union laws no longer exists is ... ille­gal and dangerous, it can only aggravate chaos and anarchy in the society." 
The events of Sunday and Monday marked a rift in the al­liance forged between Gorbachev and Yeltsin last March and cemented by resis­tance to the failed coup by Communist Party hard-liners last August. 
In a statement read on cen­tral television, and clearly aimed at Yeltsin's detractors 
see SOVIET I page 5 

By DAVID KINNEY 
Associate News Editor 
A WI'Pk aftPr n~signing amid allt•gations of sl'xual miscon­duct toward mall' students during his eari'Pr at Notre Danw. Fatlwr Jarnns Burtchaell issul'(l a statl'llll'nt apJwaring in tlw Dt>r. I:1 isstw of tlw National Catholir Ht>portl'r (NCH). 
liP said in th1• statl'rnent that 
hn rPgrPttnd that lw "had be­
havPd toward soml' former 
University stu(lfmts in ways that 
wen~ wrong." 
Burtdmt>ll confirmed that the 
Univt>rsity had uskNl him to re­
sign in August I990 when he 
Senate votes $600 to right to life group 
By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
AftPr lwatnd debate in yester­day's rnePting, Studt~nt Senate alloltl~d $600 to the Notre Danw Hight to Life Organization to defray costs of its annual trip to tlw Hight to I.ifl' March in Washington. D.C. 
Much eritirism from various individuals on eampus oceurred last ymtr when form11r Student Body l'rt>sident Hobt>rt Pasin alloeat1HI funds for this same purpose. CurrPnt President Jos1~ph Blaneo statPd in his eampaign that if faced with the sanw issue, he would immedi­ately take the proposal to the senatl' body. 
The senate budget eommittee determirwd that $600 from the <~onlingency fund would be available to the group. The eon­tingnney fund has been used al­ready this semnster to fund campus Moek Trial and Model Unitnd Nations organizations. 
Senate member Joe Wilson stated that funding Hight to Life is "dill'erent (than funding other groups) beeause we're dealing 
see SENATE/ page 6 began his research leave at Prineeton University. This con­tradiets a previous statement by Father Carl Ebey, provincial superior of the Congregation of Holy Cross. which said that Burtehaell agreed to resign in April 1991. 
Although the University re­quested that he resign, Burtehaell said that in reality he did so for "other unrelated reasons of my own." 
In the statement, Burtchaell said that the situation was humiliating, stnmuous and dif­ficult, but also "a time for chastening, conversion and peace." He said that he is at­tempting to get the experience 
ltJESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1991 
The Observer!E.G.Bailey


Christmas charity 

Christmas is a time for giving and those at the UNICEF table stationed in the concourse of the Hesburgh Library are hoping that passersby remember the cause they are serving when they make a purchase from their various selections. 



Burtchaell issues statement concerning charges 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey

A cry for help 
Notre Dame students view an art exhibit at Hesburgh Library spon­sored by Child Abuse Neglect Coordinating Organization (CANCO). 
• Vore goes public I page 4 
behind him "with wise profes­sional help and loving support." 

"I have been making amends by offering apology to people I had offended and receiving their forgiveness," he added. 
He criticized some of his col­leagues for approaching the press to publish the story of his resignation and the NCR for printing it. "The story as writ­ten," he said, "implies some things that are not true." 
William Storey, a retired ND theology professor, accused the Holy Cross Congregation of a "cover-up" in a separate article by Pat Windsor, national news editor for the NCR. He said that he reported possible sexual misconduct by Burtchaell to the Holy Cross Congregation in 1976. 

Storey, director of the under­graduate theology program during the late 1960s and early 1970s, said that five students, including two seminarians, re­ported allegations over a period of sev~ral years, according to the NCR. He referred the students to the University Counseling Center and to Morton Kelsey, an ND priest and psychologist, he said. 
The NCR reported that Storey was questioned later in 1976 by former Father William Lewers, then the Holy Cross provindal, about th1~ allegations concern­ing Burtchaell. The provindal requested information from Storey about what kind of sex­ual contact had occurred, but Storey said that he told Lewers that he had not asked the stu­dents for specific information. 
Fathflr Theodore llesburgh, University president-emeritus, said that he had no knowledge of similar allegations against Burtchaell in the 1970s, but did not comment on his awareness of rumors about the situation. "I had none," he said, "nothing substantiated." 
The article said that Michael 
see NCR I page 3 



GLND/SMC calls for investigation 
By MONICA YANT News Editor 
Responding to the resignation of Father James Burtchaell after allegations of sexual mis­conduct, Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/St. Mary's College (GLND/SMC) issued a statement Monday calling for an indepen­dent investigation into the charges and the recognition of the organization as a means of creating a "supportive envi­ronment for gay and lesbian is­sues." 
In addition, GLND/SMC called for Burtchaell to be reinstated to the University faculty "where he must be supported with love and forgiveness." 
The "Statement on Father Burtchaell's and Notre Dame's Abuses" coincides with a Dec. 13 follow-up article in the Na­tional Catholic Reporter in which GLND/SMC co-chair Michael Vore identified himself as a victim of Burtchaell's mis­conduct. 
GLND/SMC's statement charges that the University's inaction regarding the allega­tions allowed the misconduct to be perpetuated. " ... Burtchaell's actions were inexcusably al­lowed to persist over an intol­erable length of time. This has harmnd the entire University ... 
"Even after knowledge of Burtehaell's abuses has become publie, the University has made no response to an environment which enabled his misconduct to thrive." 
Because GLND/SMC belinves the University has yet to explain prior knowlfldge of the Burtchaell abuses, the group calls for an independent inves­tigation of the case which would publish the following re­sults within three months: 
•Who 
knew about the Burtchaell abuses, and from what date; 

•Why 
the miseonduet was not dealt with sooner; 

•What 
steps the University will take to "repair the damage done to students harmed di­rectly by Burtchaell" and 

•What 
the University will do to address the needs of gay and lesbians within the community. 


Although the statement did not propose a spedfic make-up for the investigating body, Vore told The Observer Monday night that he could envision a committee made up of five peo­
see GLND/ page 4 

City  H  L  
Athens  39  32  
Atlanta  65  57  
Berlin  41  32  
Boston  SO  42  
Calgary  36  27  
Chicago  60  31  
Dallas·Ft.Woflh  78  57  
Denver  42  23  
Honolulu  84  70  
Houston  77  68  
lndianapoli&  63  45  
London  45  34  
Los Angeles  59  54  
Mlarri Beach  76  73  
N-Orleans  73  57  
N-York  59  52  
Paris  43  32  
Phllade~hla  58  48  
Rome  52  37  
San Diego  60  55  
San Francisco  66  4 7  
Seattle  51  46  
South Bend  111  38  
Tokyo  54  48  
Washington. D.C.  65  48  
;1.---------------------:-------, ·:::. Pr9SSUrB ~ h---, .:·: HL ~~w EZl!ZZI~"¥" ~  



page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Schools fail bygiving students 


condoms 
Johnny can't read. He's not too good at math either. 
While Johnny may not he learning much in school, this month the New York City Public School system taught him 

a lesson he'll never forget: Monica Yant 
that promiscuity and News Editor 
premarital sex are ok. 
Johnny is one o~------------­thousands of New York City high school students who can now receive free condoms "on demand" within school walls. The program began with the 3,000 students ln Dewey High School in Brooklyn and will eventually accommodate the sexual needs of over 250,000 young people. 
Students need no parental consent to receive the contraceptives. The condoms will he distributed by specially trained teachers and counselors. 
Inside each package students will find in­structions and literature outlining the risks and benefits of condom use. The truly interested will also fmd a note reminding them that abstinence is the only true guarantee against sexually transmitted disease. 
The program was adopted over arguments by the Catholic Church and many parent groups who feel that schools are condoning teen sex by giving students condoms. 
Proponents of the program argue that rhetoric and religion must he sacrificed to face the rising number of AIDS cases among teenagers. New York City alone boasts 20 percent of all AIDS cases in the 13-to-21 year-old age group. 
And with upwards of 60 percent of all teenagers admitting to having sex, it is easy to understand the dilemma facing parents, teachers and school administrators. 
Still, amid all the logical and reasonabiP. arguments for giving students a means to protect themselves, one question remains: Is it the school's place to intervene? 
Over the years, sex education in public ed­ucation has been hotly debated. Some feel educators have a responsibility to teach students about sex for health reasons. 
From these arguments comes the more recent demand for the distribution of condoms within the schools. 
A closer look at public education shows that while schools may be responsible for educating students on the risks of sexual activity, teachers are in no way hound to helping young people take those risks. 
The role of the teacher in a young person's life is that of educator, guide and mentor. Giving students condoms tells young people that their role models think premarital sex is permissible. 
What educators in New York City will fmd as their program progresses is that under the guise of helping students fight a battle against AIDS, they might just he putting young people at greater risk. 
It's a dangerous test they're taking in New York City. A test that not even the brightest could pass. 
And in years to come, when officials seek statistics to prove that giving kids condoms stopped the spread of sexually transmitted disease, they'll he in for some unpleasant results: they failed the test. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer:. 
Today's Staff:  Accent:  
Production:  Jahnelle Harrigan  
Melissa Cusack  Photos:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Jake Peters  
Sports:  Systems:  
Jen Marten  John Halloran  
News:  Pat Barth  
Pete Loftus  
Julie Barrett  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, December 10, 1991 
FDR!CAIT: Partly sunny and mild today. Highs in the middle 40s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T..STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
':(::·· ..:f 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Carriers of AIDS face intolerance 
•MOSCOW -When Andrei Plotnikov tested positive for the HIV virus, articles appeared in his hometown newspapers warning that he was a danger to society. Not long after, Plotnikov was in jail, was dumped in a cell without mattress or pillow. His alleged crime: knowingly infecting his homosexual lover with the AIDS virus. "Of course I'm scared," Plotnikov said, sitting in Moscow's Second Infectious Disease Hospital, where he was admitted for trP.atment. "I don't want to go back to prison and die there." He denied the charge. The healthy-looking 26-year­old is one of three Soviets who have been imprisoned under a law that makes it a crime to transmit knowingly the AIDS virus, a law that has counterparts in other countries. 

NATIONAL 

Human blood found on ancient knife 
•BUFFALO, N.Y.-An archaeologist said blood found on a prehistoric stone tool came from one of the continent's frrst human residents, an archaeologist said. Archaeologist Michael Gramley said that the blood is from one of the Clovis, referring to the culture that crossed to North America after the last Ice Age. The blood may he 11,000 years old, said Gramley. Gramley led a dig in November near the Columbia River in Washington, where Clovis peoples are believed to have lived and where a farmer sometime between 1951 and 1970 unearthed the 10-inch translucent-green obsidian knife. The dig ended prematurely after Indians protested, claiming it could have been a burial ground. Diggers have also found blood of bison, deer and rabbit on artifacts around what scientists believe was a hunter's prehistoric tool-storage area. 
OF lfTEREST 

•Advent Penance Service will take place at 10 p.m. tonight in Sacred Heart Church. Father William Seetch, Rector of Flanner Hall, will preside. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YEST.ERDAY'S TRADING/December 9 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 


209.21 {} 0.53
215,835,770 
S&P COMPOSITE 

378.26 .. .84 
OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
2,871.65 "' 14.75 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD. $ .10 to $369.30/oz. 
SILVER. 1¢ to $4.011/oz. 
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

ICE 
.:r·· 

Teen-ager begs police to shoot him 
•SAN RAFAEL, Calif.-A policeman who tried to talk a teen-ager out of committing suicide said the youth begged officers to shoot him before pulling the trigger himself. "He just looked up at me and said, 'Goodbye,' and he pulled the trigger," said Cpl. Michael Pool, who arrived seconds before the shooting Friday night in Novato, about 25 miles north of San Francisco. "I'm going to see that kid's face for the rest of my life," the 18-year-police veteran said. "Sixteen years old ... what a waste." When Pool arrived-, the youth was standing in the street with the .22-caliber pistol to his head. He yelled, "Shoot me! Shoot me!" and then fell to his knees and shot himself as neighbors watched, Pool said. The youth, who lived in a foster home, died in surgery Saturday night at the hospital. 
Duke is not winning Darty friends 
~WAS~lN_GTON-David _Duke 
ikC Isn't wmnmg too many fnends '" among state Republican Party leaders. But many of them are 
resigned to the former Ku Klux Klansman appearing on presidential primary ballots in their states. The first test of ,..,..,..., Duke's appeal may well come i*""',,d<lf'
1

March 3, when he most likely will he on the GOP primary ballots in Georgia and Maryland. In both states, the secretary of state makes up the ballot and lists candidates who have been recognized in the national media. The same standard likely will land Duke a spot on the Oregon ballot next May, and on the Mississippi ballot in March. All Duke has to do to get on the Arkansas ballot is pay a filing fee. It won't be that easy elsewhere. In New York, · where Duke has been attacked by state GOP leaders, he'd need 20,000 signatures to get on the ballot. 
•National health care and questions in general about other issues will he discussed with U.S. Senator Dan Coats tomorrow at 1 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary's. All are welcome to attend. 
ON TtiS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1520: Martin Luther publicly burned the papal edict demanding that he recant, or face excommunication. 

• 
In 1869: Women were granted the right to vote in the Wyoming Territory. 

• 
In 1906: President Theodore Roosevelt became the first American to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, for helping to mediate an end to the Russo.Japan · 

• 
In 1958: The first domestic passenger jet flight took place in the U.S. as a National Airlines Boeing 707 flew 111 passengers from New York to Miami in about 2 112 hours. 

• 
In 1980: Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev, on a visit to India, proposed a plan aimed at easing tensions in the Persian Gulf. 


Tuesday, December 10, 1991 The Observer page 3 


Sharkey receives Caring Award 

By ELIZABETH COSTELLO 
News Writer 
Notre Dame freshman Mariah Sharkey was recently selected lo reeeive a National Caring Award for her efforts in creating, designing and chair­ing the Solidarity Movement at Yuba City High School in Yuba City, Calif. 
Sharkey accepted the award, along with ten other young men and women from the United States, Dec. 5 at a ceremony in the Senate Caucus Room in Washington D.C. 
The purpose of the National Caring Award identifies, rein­forees and celebrates the spe­cial acts of those people who ennoble the human race­those who, in learning the wisdom of gaining by giving, have transcended self in service. 
The prindpals of every junior and senior high school in the United States were asked to identify the most caring stu­dents they knew. Sharkey's high school principal in Yuba City, Calif. nominated her for the award. 
The Yuba City High School "Solidarity Week" program is modeled after Lech Walesa's Solidarity movement in Poland that knoeked down the walls in that country and Eastern Europe. 
Sharkey said there were diques and segregation in her 

Mariah Sharkey 
high school among minorities, whites, wealthy and poor. She said the movement was a "simple idea to be Christlike and just be nice to each other and to make everyone feel they had a place to gather." 
The theme of Solidarity was to emphasize the commonalities which bind people together as human beings rather than those differences that separate them. Her goal was to celebrate the unique qualities of different groups and individuals, while promoting cohesion among the student body. 
In a handbook put together to assist other high schools in implementing the program, Sharkey points out a quote by Elie Wiesel on caring: "But where am I to start? The world is so vast, shall I begin with the country I know best, my own? But my country too is so very large. I had better start with my town. But, large also is my town. I had best start with my street. No: my home. No: my family. Never mind. I shall start 



No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'\1 score your highest on the MCAT. Our umque Test Your Sese" guarantee is your insurance policy If you're no1 completely satisfied with 

· you( MCAT score. we'II let you repeat the entire course...at no charge! We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE• labs and lots of personal attention. Thai's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test 1akers, and produced more top MCAT scores, 1han everyone else combined' 
! STANlEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations cali800-KAP-TEST 

I. 
NCR 
continued from page 1 
Yore, a Notre Dame graduate student, identified himself last week as one of the students who had received counseling from and who had had sexual contacts with Burtchaell during the 1984-85 academic year. 
He reported the priest's ac­tions to University President Father Edward Malloy in a let­ter dated June 1991, according to the article. 
Mark Jordan, Medieval Institute professor, said that he knew some of the students in­volved in the investigation and that he was concerned with the long-term psychological effects. Jordan said that the University or the congregation should of­fer to pay for professional counseling or some other type of concrete support for the students. 
University policy, however, dictates that the determination of the necessity of such counseling would be determined on a case-to-case basis, according to Dennis Moore, director of University Public Relations. 



page 4 The Observer Tuesday, December 10, 1991 


Vore publicly identifies himself as Burtchaell victim 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
.. 
For Michael Yore, the decision to publicly identify himself as a victim of Father James Burtchaell's sexual misconduct was made after the realization that no matter how personal the situation was, the truth needed to be told. 
Yore identifies himself in the Dec. 13 issue of National Catholic Reporter (NCR), saying he underwent counseling with Burtchaell that later transpired to sexual relations. Burtchaell resigned from the Notre Dame faculty last week after a Dec. 6 NCR article published allega­tions of Burtchaell's miscon­duct. 
"It was very hard for me to go on the record," Yore told The Observer Monday. "It was a very personal decision." 
He said his decision was mo­tivated by the University's in­ability to properly investigate and act upon rumors regarding Burtchaell. 
"The University's response has been silence on a matter 

GLND 
continued from page 1 
pie: a prominent Catholic and a psychologist, both sensitive to gay and lesbian issues; a victim of Burtchaell's misconduct; a representative from the Univer­sity; and a representative from the Holy Cross Order. 
The statement also calls for University recognition of a "support organization for gay, lesbian and bisexual members of the community." Recognizing such a group would be "one way in which the University can institutionalize the changes that must take place to make Notre Dame a safer place for those addressing questions about their sexual orientations," the statement said. 
The lack of recognition of gay, lesbian and bisexual students may have contributed to the continuation of Burtchaell's misconduct, Yore speculated. 
"We've (gay, lesbian and bi-
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE 
American Heart Association 
Sugar Bowl '92 Land Packages from $269 PP DBL occ 
1(800) 348-1133 Barker'l'ollra 
Welcome to New Orleans &. The Sugar Bowl 
Ir1 sh Hdqr. at O'Flaherty's I r1sh Pub 514 Toulouse Str. -French Quarter 
L1ve lr1sh mus1c &. s1ng1ng -harp&. m1scellaneous Ir1 sh dr1 nks 

that cannot be silent," Yore said. "The bottom line is that they didn't want to pursue it." 
Yore's frustration with the University stems from what he said is an overwhelming atti­tude of denial within the admin­istration that allowed Burtchaell's actions to go on for years. Yore speculated that the misconduct was originally reported as early as 1976. 
Yore also said he could no longer suppress feelings of vio­lation that remained from his involvement with Burtchaell. After his counseling sessions with Burtchaell during the 1984-85 academic year went from talking about intimacy in relationships to actual "physical lessons," Yore said he began to question Burtchaell's actions. 
"This is a man I trusted. I be­lieved he was doing what was in my best interest," Yore said. "I believed that what he was doing was going to help me. 
"I experienced a violation when I was with him-a viola­tion of trust, of the confidence I had in him." 
Yore's decision to identify himself comes months after he 
sexual students) been around in one form or another for at least as long as the rumors about Burtchaell," Yore said in a press release accompanying the statement. "Had the University recognized us when we first appeared, we could have been the institutional check that could have stopped this abuse when it first occurred." 
GLND/SMC expressed disap­pointment with the University and the Holy Cross Order in handling the matter via Burtchaell's 1\esignation. The statement claims that Holy 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
announces 
Auditions for Our Town and King Lear 


Wednesday, January 15 and Thursday, January 16 7:00-1 0:00 PM 
Auditions for the two plays will run concurrently. Please visit the departmental office at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall or call 39-5134 for more information or to sign up to a specific audition time. The Department is ommitted to casting its plays without regard t race and/or ethnicit . 
SECOND IN A SERIES LIMITED EDITION NOTRE DAME COMMEMORATIVE ORNAMF.NT 
Celebrate this holiday season with a beautifully designed and dated collectible that feautures the Sacred Heart Church. On display and for sale at the Notre Dame Bookstore. • . 
~~-----.--·-· ·--~-----~-~-­
1 

Ornaments are enclosed in a blue velvet jacket featuring the words "University of Notre Dame" embossed in gold on front. 

All proceeds from the sale of these ornaments are used to provide services to children and adults with disabilities through the Easter Seal Society. 
first notified the University of his involvement with Burtchaell. 
After telling University Presi­dent Father Edward Malloy about the situation in a June 1991 letter, Yore began meeting . with Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry and counselor to the President, to discuss the charges. 
Yore said he has not met with Warner since October. 
Warner acknowledged the discussions, but said he could not comment due to matters of confidentiality. 
Yore said he was encouraged by the administration to press charges against Burtchaell through the University's sexual harassment policy. 
He said he declined to press charges at the time for several reasons: 
•He 
was already under the assumption that Burtchaell had been dismissed, and didn't think thatformal charges would "yield anything of use." 

•He 
did not want to be si­lenced by the University's rule of confidentiality that accom­panies internal investigations. 


Cross Provincial Father Carl Ebey's characterization of the situation as "anomalous" re­fleets a refusal to acknowledge "the continuing anti-gay atti­tudes held by many in the Holy Cross Order, and within the University administration." 
By calling for Burtchaell's resignation, the University and Holy Cross Order have essen­tially excluded him from the si­tuation and ignored the issues, according to GLND/SMC. "If this is to be a Catholic univer­sity, he should be asked and en­couraged to return." 
•He was cautious of trusting an administration that he be­lieved knowingly ignored the rumors about Burtchaell for 15 years. 
Yore said he also feared the possibility of making Burtchaell a "scapegoat." 
"I still had a sense of loyalty (to Burtchaell)." 
Even so, Yore's knowledge of other cases involving Burtchaell compelled him to come for­ward. Yore said that he dis­cussed the matter with Burtchaell and "told him that I have every confidence in him that he'll be able to come through this, that he'll be able to help people again." 
By coming forward with his story now, Yore said he hopes the University will address the connection between Burtchaell's misconduct and the issues facing gay and lesbian students at Notre Dame. 
"He and I are alike, we are both gay men," who face dis­crimination at various levels, Yore said. "I sympathize with him." 
But Yore said that the attitude of denial that he feels is 






March of Dimes
ililliliiBIRJH DEFECTS FOUNDATIONIIIIIIii~ 1 

~lll""""l''l""""''l'"'"'l''lmTml''lmTml''lmTmf''""""l''""'"'l''lmTml''lt! 
~ ~ ~ ot':me ; ~ ncounter ~· 
~ ~­
A WEEKEND E:_ RETREAT EXPERIENCE ::3_ 
~ GUIDED BY ~ 

~ ~~:~:.~"~:.~:~~~~~.:. ~ ~:~:~ ~ 
undertlltndlng ol yourMII, your Vllun, your reletlonehlp ~-­with Chrtet, your experience ol Chrtltlan community 1nd 
Hrvlce. 

~ 
E_-3_
RETREAT 

~ DATEs: February 7-9, 1992 3 
~ APPLICATIONS: I ~= 
AccEPTED: Dec. 4-11, 1992 . 

~ CONTACT: Cempue Mlnlllry Olftce ::3_ 103 Helburgh Library ~ 
-238·7800 
~ COST: $25.00 0,MPUS ~ ~ MINISTRY~ 
in'rlllllliiJ1rlllillillrrlllilliltr11UlliJJ1r111Jllijl11rtllilliltrrllllllillr11UillJllr1llillllilrrliil 
This exclusive second edition 
3-dimensional ornament is created with 14K gold on heavy jewelers brass. This ornament is perfect for your own holiday decorating or as a timeless gift. Each is numbered and signed by the Director of the Mint and comes with a certificate of authenticity. .. Quantities are limited. 
These ornaments are sure to be a keepsake for Irish fans everywhere. This design is limited to the 1991 second edition ornament. 
Each ornament is packaged in a parchment envelope ready for mailing as gifts. 
prevalent in the Holy Cross Order prevents him from being overly confidant in their re­sponse. "It's all about the Holy Cross Order and keeping the Order going," he said. 
"I don't think that the Uni­versity or the Order has the ability to see the damage they've caused" to all members of the community, including Burtchaell. Yore expressed dis­appointment in the Order for failing to give Burtchaell the support and assistance he needed. 
Still, Yore said he hopes to dispel the myth that the Burtchaell case affects only gay and lesbians. As sexual beings, "every student needs to be aware, not just gay students." 
Although Yore said he does not foresee the University tak­ing this opportunity to change the "oppressive" environment at Notre Dame, he said his go­ing public might encourage students to discuss sexual is­sues more openly among them­selves. 
"It's one way for all of us to learn about what things happen in life " Yore said. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, December 10, 1991 page 5 
Soviet US wants Soviets to keep weapons US praises 
continued from page 1 
among Russians and the Muslim republics of Asia, (;orbaehev appealed for reason and the rule of law. 
"Indisputably, any republic has a right to secede from the Union, but the fate of the multi­national state can't be decided by the will of the leaders of three republics," Gorbachev said. 
"This question must be solved only on a eonstitutional basis with the participation of all the sovereign states and recogni­tion ..or the will of their peo­piHs. 
"The hastinHss of appearance of the document also causes bewilderment," said Gorbachev, whose aides said he had been blind-sided. 
The agreement, he said. had "not bm1n diseussed either by the population, or by the (legislatures) of the republics on behalf of which it has been signed." 
c;orbachev said he was par­ticularly disturbed that forma­tion of the commonwealth had btHm announced when republic parliaments were being asked by tlw state council, which in­dudes himself and Yeltsin, to eonsider his own Union Treaty, dt~signtHI to preserve the wntral government. 
Oflkials dose to Gorbachev said Yeltsin's action, and c;orbachev's reaetion, probably marknd a light to the finish for the political rivals, with the odds heavily favoring Yeltsin. 
One prominent Gorbaehev supporter, speaking on condi­tion he not be further identi­fied. said he didn't think the Soviet president had much of a chance. 
By founding a Slavic com­monwealth, Yeltsin was shn~wdly mt~nding fenees with Ukraine. the second most popu­lous and wealthy Soviet repub­
lic. Ukrailw had rejected Gorbachev's Union Treaty. 

controlled by a 'unified command' 
WASHINGTON {AP) -The Bush administration today said it would like to see the unravel­ing Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal kept under a "unified eommand." 
"We do not want to see a proliferation of independent nuclear states," Margaret Tutwiler, the State Department spokeswoman, said. 
But she said the administra­tion was "not pushing" for the transfer of nuclear weapons to the Russian republic from other regions. 
U.S. officials had said they hoped the weapons could be stored in the Hussian republic for safekeeping until many of them are destroyed under arms control agreements with the United States. 
That policy decision followed two weeks of debate within the administration, said the offi­cials, speaking on the condition of anonymity. 
"We have been talking to the republics and will continue to talk to the republics about the safety, security and efficient elimination of nuclear weapons wherever they are," Tutwiler said. 
But, she said, "we have never said" the weapons should be returned to the Hussian repub­lic, "it's just erroneous." 
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, mean­while, that President Bush had been assured in a half-hour phone call on Sunday from Russian President Boris Yeltsin that the weapons were in safe hands. 
"Both he and (Soviet President Mikhail} Gorbachev have continued to express their belief in the safety of the nu­clear weapons and the systems that protect them," Fitzwater said. 
"We think their safety can best be provided for under a 


Nolll: numbers may not equalOllB htndrtld due to rounding 
Source: Central Intelligence Agency, percentages based on 1979 data APIT. Dean Caple 
unified command," Fitzwater said of the thousands of nuclear warheads in the Soviet Union. 
"I can't go through republic by republic" and discuss the weapons, Fitzwater said. But, he added: "We have the assur­ances of President Yeltsin that they are in control." 
Most of the Soviets' 27,000 nuclear weapons are stored in the Russian republic, but nearly 5,000 tactical missiles and thousands of long-range nu­dear arms are understood to be stockpiled in Ukraine, Byelorussia and Kazakhstan. 
The sources indicated that the 
New Orleans ·. SugarBowl 
*;$185 6 DAYS •• 5 NIGHTS< 


United States would like to see all the devices to be kept in Russia, although Fitzwater did not go into such issues in detail. 
Some Soviet specialists at the State Department were reluc­tant to see the United States engage in "meddling" or putting more pressure on Gorbachev's central government, officials who demanded anonymity said on Sunday. 
But the White House, worried about unrest in the country and Gorbachev's weakened leader­ship, prevailed as Secretary of State James Baker came down 
····••·••• 
Wdh Continental Breakfast, Champagne Reception, Seafo~~ ) · 
Hor d'oeuvres and a RiverboatPaddle Cruise~·.·. > ·> /·
lJ $165 5 DAYS ~;4 NIGHTS . . . .. 
With Continentil8reakfaat, Cham Hor d'oeuvres and aRi\ir~rl~oa,t Ps:ldill~ I~P~IiA-1 
Iugar Bowl 
llcklls AYiillble 
For reservations Call 
504 • 241 • 2400 or 


1 ··800 • 348 • 2299 



moves of republics 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration today praised steps taken by the leaders of Russia, Ukraine and Byelorussia in forming a new commonwealth but said it had no immediate plans to establish formal diplomatic relations. 
The communique that de­clared the Soviet Union had ceased to exist coincides in several ways with U.S. principles, said Margaret Tutwiler, the State De­partment spokeswoman. 
Among.them, she said, were guarantees for mi­norities, adherence to Soviet treaty obligations and a commitment to a demo­cr~tic legal system. 
So we are very encour­aged and pleased," the U.S. official said, reading from a prepared statement. 
Secretary of State James Baker will leave Saturday night for Moscow and make side trips to Ukraine and Byelorussia. He may go to other republics as well, Tutwiler said. 
Baker said on Sunday that "the Soviet Union, as we've known it, no longer exists." He also said there was still a risk of civil war. 
Tutwiler said today "we are concerned that the transformation continue, as it has to date, in a peaceful manner." 
But, she said, "it is not an alarmist coneern." 
Byelorussian officials are scheduled to meet with Baker on Tuesday. 
Clarification 
A photo on page one of The Observer Monday failed to identify Indi Dieckgrafe, assistant professor of the department of communica­tions, dance and theatre at Saint Mary's College. Dieck­grafe is featured on the Ac­cent page today. The Ob­server regrets the error. 
JSTANUY R KAPlAN 
Talae Kaplan OrTake Your Owns 
1717 E. South 8end Av.e. South Bend, IN •66J7 PHONE 219/27~_.1), 

page 6 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
specifically with ideology." 
The senate proceeded to dis­
cuss whether the money could 
be distributed without reflecting 
a specific stance taken by the 
senate. Several senate 
members proposed allocating 
the money only with a specific 
disclaimer. 
Such a statement would claim that the senate is "funding this organization because it is a university recognized organiza­tion, because it has a need and the funds are available -not ~ecause of a p<!Jticular ideolog­Ical stance taken by the univer­sity," said Wilson. 
Other senate members dis­agreed. One member stated, "part of being a leader is mak­ing choices ... we can't please ev­eryone." Several senators did not view this disagreement as negative. 
"As leaders we make deci­sions, we make statements...if people aren't going to agree with it that's great-there will be more discussion, and that's a positive thing," stated one se­nator. 
Student Body Vice President Dave Florenzo stated that a disclaimer might not "do what it was intended to do." "If we don't take a stance, people who 


JPW plans underway _ 
TheObserveriE.G.Bai!ey 

Th~ JPW activities for the class of 1993 will be in full swing before long forcing Notre Dame juniors and therr moderators on the JPW planning committee to convene Monday and begin to get plans underway. 
In ot_her_ senate business, a and all crime involving or af-· 1 
resolutiOn _mtroduce~ by Junior fecting students, not excluding pus me uding parking lots, lake Class Prestdent Davtd ·Cath_ca_rt crimes related to areas, and the road to Saint
Mary's College. and Stude?-t Senator ~hnstte date/acquaintance rape... s
Sc~afer, dtscu~sed Umversity The resolution also asked the enate also set the dates for po_hcy concernmg o_n campus University to explore the possi-next semester's student gov­cnme. The_ reso_lutwn stated bilities of increasing the avat"l-ernment elections. Elections for 
that th U h student body president and 
e mver.~tt~ s. ould in-ability of Safe Walk services, officers will be held Feb. 10, for form stud~nts wtthm a rea-routine security patrols around class officers on Feb. 24, and sonable ttme, through The the lakes and in parking lots ~ d 
Ob_server and emergency bul-and the number of call boxe~ or stu ent senators on March letms where necessary, of any and lights in key areas of cam-2. Run-offs for each election
will be two days later 
don't support this organization 
will label us as cop-outs," he 
continued. 
Wilson returned, "I would 
hate to see this [senate] used to 
isolate a large part of the popu­
lation on this campus." 
In the final vote, allocation of 
funds only was considered with 
?-o reference to an accompany­
mg statement made by the sen­
ate. The vote showed nine in 
favor, six against, and one ab­
stention. 
After the vote, several senate members made statements on the proposal. Wilson stated that he is "not at all opposed to the funding because it is a uni­versity organization with a need," but he does highly criti­cize the senate for not also passing a disclaimer concerning its ideological stance. He challenges the behavior of the senate if another group with an ideological issue less popular on campus arises. 
The Right to Life group was also criticized for the manner in which it asked for funding. Club Coordinating Council (CCC) member Matthew Bomberger stated that the organization "did not follow normal funding appeals procedure by appearing before the CCC prior to going to the budget committee." 
"They bring it back year ~fter year so [senate] has to make a political statement," stated Nicole Farmer. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY 

. . . considerations 0MPUS
•

MINISTRY
• 

This Recent Pain 
For the past two or three years, a number of stories have been 
appearing in the press about priests and ministers accused of 
, sexual harassment or abuse. These accounts which are sometimes embellished by a salacious press, bring a feeling of terrible sadness. It is not just that there are so many immediate victims as a result of such actions. Each of these incidents also casts at least a shadow of doubt on organized religion and on the people who minister to believers. 
Our University community has been reeling this past week because this crisis has now touched home. And, inevitably ,it has touched each one of us in one way or another. 
There is more than enough anger and confusion and bitter disappointment to go around. This is the kind of time when it is all too easy for people to unleash skepticism and even cynicism about the Church and about the priesthood. 
There is a temptation to think that the Church might become one more casualty of our age. We live in a time of selfishness and greed-a complicated situation where values can seem to change quickly, often as a matter of convenience rather than in response to sensitive conscience. 
And yet in the face of all these feelings and concerns, we continue 
to proclaim the reality of salvation, the grace of the Church the 
ministry of priesthood. 
As Christians we believe that our lives are mysteries where light and shadow, sin and grace are daily realities as we try to form ourselves in the image of Jesus Christ. 

We are gifted with a community of faith to assist us, where our encouragement comes not just from Words of Life in Scripture and from the Eucharist, but also from the example of lives well 
lived, with effort and conviction, by fellow believers. When 
those lives are truly well lived, we bring blessings and hope to 
one another. When we know deceit or corruption or the misuse 
of power, all of us pay a price. 
In God's wisdom, God has chosen human instruments, 
sometimes all too fragile, to bear the message of the Gospel 
through history. In this way, the power of the death and 
resurrection of Jesus is more easily seen in lives touched and 
transformed by light and grace. 
The Church, human to a fault and divine to the core, calls us to community where faith is the basis of whatever good things happen to make, us more wholehearted in our commitments. Within this context, the priesthood is effective when people can appreciate a life lived for the service of others, and a service rendered not out of ambition or fear, but out of love. 
It is still this way here and elsewhere, as it has been through 
the years. 
Richard V. Warner, CSC 

Liturgy Schedule December 12 Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe 11 :30 a.m. Fr. Wi 11 i am Beauchamp 
5:00 p.m. Spanish Liturgy Fr. Ted Weber, CSC 


' ,,.. ..... ...; ... Tuesday, December 10, 1991 The Observer 

The Observer/E.G. Bailey


Lights, camera, action! 
Aspiring Notre Dame actors Stephen Laucirica of Pangborn Hall and Pete Dillard from Flanner Hall (left to right) audition for "Henry V, • a dramatic production due out next spring. . 
""). ...... 
page 7 


EC accepts tentative monetary agreement 
MAASTRICHT, Netherlands (AP)-Leaving an escape route for Britain, European Community nations Monday tentatively agreed to set up a common -central bank and to begin using a single currency by 1999. 
But leaders of the trading bloc, holding a landmark summit in this ancient Dutch town on the Meuse River, ran into roadblocks in their quest for a political federation of their 12 nations. 
Dutch Foreign Minister Hans van den Broek said "insurmountable obstacles" thrown up by Britain and Spain were making it difficult to agree on a political union that would establish common foreign and internal security policies, and perhaps a common defense policy, for the 338 million EC citizens. 
Most European leaders would like to develop political muscle to match the bloc's economic might, which would approxi­mate that of the U.S.-Canada­Mexico market of 355 million resident'>. 
The leaders led off the two­day gathering, probably the most important in their 34-year history, by tackling a merger of their economic and monetary policies. 
By day's end, their finance ministers struck a deal that set a deadline of Jan. 1, 1999 for the nations to establish a European Central Bank and common currency, officials said. 
As part of the arrangement, the European currency unit, or Ecu, would replace the French franc, German mark and other currencies as early as 1997 and no later than 1999. 
Only those nations meeting strict economic conditions ­low inflation rates and modest budget deficits -could belong to the European Central Bank and circulate a common cur­rency. In practice that could give the EC wholesale power over the economic policies of its members. 





Bankers fail to find Maxwell's missing 1.2 billion dollars 
LONDON (AP) -Trouble at Hobert Maxwell's wrecked me­dia empire deepened Monday with word that bank lenders failnd to find more than half the $1.2 billion in missing money he had frantically shuffled before his death. 
Thn flamboyant publisher's sons Knvin and Ian were im­mllrSild dnepnr into the confus­ing jumbill of events with the disclosure that a court had seized their passports and im­pounded assets to assure their hnlp in finding the missing money. 
Hobert Maxwell apparently used the money to help mask the weakness of his far-flung web of indebted companies, which range from tabloid newspapers to scholastic pub­lishing. 
Kevin Maxwell, publisher of the Daily News in New York, appealed for the return of his passport so he could run that newspaper which, like other Maxwell holdings, faces a bleak future. He also put his house up for sale. 


"We have a mortgage like ev­
Robert Maxwell 
eryone else," his wife Pandora 

once regarded as a scrappy
told reporters. 

business hero but is now seen
The stunning turn of events 

by many as a conniving
since Maxwell's mysterious 

scoundrel who purloined pen­
death at sea last month has 
sions and other funds. 
created a scandalous uproar in 

The Maxwell story also has
Britain, where Maxwell was 


BE PART OF OUR TEST MARKET!!! 
COME TO LAFORTUNE'S INFORMATION DESK BY DEC. 16TII & AGREE TO BE PART OF OUR TEST MARKET & YOU CAN SAVE WITH 
THE MICHIANA SAVINGS CARD 
AT SUCH LOCATIONS AS: 
BUDGETEER  FONDUE PARLOR  
CIIICK FIL-A  MARRIOTT HOTEL  
COACH'S  OSCO DRUG STORE  
DAMON'S RIBS  SOCCER HOUSE  
DOMINO'S PIZZA  SPAGHETTI WORKS  
FANTASTIC SAM'S  TCBY  

OR OUR NEW ON-CAMPUS LOCATIONS: 
CLUB FLANNER COUNTRY HARVESTER GORCH GAMES ROOM IRISH GARDENS 
N.D. VIDEO STORE WINDY CITY SHUTTLE 

focused attention on Britain's notoriously lax accounting sys­tem, which allows corporations enormous leeway in how they report financial results. 
Richard Stone, an accountant hired by Maxwell's banks, said that he had been unable to trace more than half $1.2 bil­lion Maxwell secretly siphoned from public and private com­panies before his death on Nov. 5. 
Of the $540 million traced, up to $144 million was used to make up operating losses and meet interest payments within Maxwell's private group, in­cluding the Daily News and The European, Stone said. 
"Clearly, the pressure must have been enormous upon him," Stone said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. 
The missing money may have been used to try to boost the share price of Maxwell Communication Corp. PLC, said Stone. He said falling share prices had begun the unraveling of Maxwell's web of businesses. 
Employees at The European, the English-language weekly newspaper founded by Maxwell, voted Monday to continue working without pay while court-appointed administrators sought a buyer. 
Officials of Mirror Group Newspapers, a major Maxwell holding, met with bankers Monday, apparently to discuss short-term financing until a buyer is found. Lonrho PLC, owner of the weekly Observer of London, confirmed that it was interested in buying the newspaper group,. one of Britain's largest. 

@
Need A Spring Break?~ 
Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 

The Ultimate Sailing Experience C ICall 1-800-359-9808 Today I ""-"' 
IF You DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 


TEST PREPAATION , GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION 8c COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
-




Viewpoint 
Page 8 Tuesday, December 10, 1991 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor ......•..•....•••. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .......•..••••. David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ..••...•.•.•••.....• John O'Brien Systems Manager ........ , ....... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND showed disregard for students in conversion of Pangborn 
Dear Editor:  should force the campus to ex­ creased the difficulty some stu­ freshmen into this dorm next  space as is needed) in another  
Obviously, the men of  amine what the primary con­ dents will face in securing off­ year (instead of filling it with  dorm, preferably on South  
Pangborn Hall have been deeply  cerns of this University really  campus housing. As off-campus  transfers). In doing so, only one  Quad, thus preserving the  
saddened by the University's  are. The lack of student input,  housing continued to fill up, the  class of students would be  Pangborn spirit. This does not  
decision to convert Pangborn  coupled with the University's  University ignored this concern  displaced, instead of an entire  seem to be an unreasonable re­ 
into a female dorm. We truly  deception, can only be de­ and proceeded at a snail's pace.  dorm. The seniors of 1993  quest, but rather, it would ap­ 
believe that Pangborn possesses  scribed as distressing.  The early denials of this  would be graduated, the juniors  pear to be the decent thing to  
both a spirit and a togetherness  At the start of this school year,  possibility provided no  would most likely move off  do.  
that cannot be found anywhere  the rumor of converting a male  warnings of this possible  campus, and only the sopho­ We do not seek to condemn  
else.  dorm circulated the campus  dilemma. In addition to this,  mores would be forced to move.  the University of Notre Dame.  
While we accept the  and was dismissed by many.  the timing of the announcement  This additional year of notifi­ We realize that a dorm had to  
University's decision with  Campus publications, quoting  will make it extremely difficult  cation would have allowed the  be converted and we recognize  
reluctance, we cannot accept  University sources, assured the  for Pangborn residents to study  sophomores to seek openings  that the University would get an  
the manner in which this  students that no such action  for exams.  with friends in other dorms,  argument from whichever dorm  
decision was made. The lack of  was being pursued. Suddenly, in  Many students cannot com­ thus eliminating a situation  they chose. The fact that  
student and dorm input has  the past few weeks, reports  prehend the urgency with  where anyone is forced into a  Pangborn Hall has been taken  
heightened concern that the  began to appear in national  which this policy was enacted.  strange environment.  disturbs and saddens us all.  
University failed to act in the  publications stating that Notre  There had been no warning in  Now that the decision has  What disturbs us more, how­ 
best interests of the students.  Dame has decided to increase  previous years that this issue  been rendered, the University  ever, is the manner in which  
We truly believe that this deci­ its percentage of females.  was even on the horizon. The  should make amends to do their  that decision was made.  
sion could have been handled  Mr. William Kirk then stated  University could have imple­ best and accommodate the  Any University, but especially  
differently.  that in order to implement such  mented this policy under a  wishes of the Pangborn  Notre Dame, should be  
Now that the speculation has  a policy, a male dorm would  timetable which considered its  residents. Pangborn Hall was  committed to their students  
been ended and the men of  indeed be taken. This  obligations to the students.  unique in the sense that all of  above all else. Such disregard  
Pangborn Hall have been given  clandestine decision making  If they had been concerned  the students seemed to know  for the students represents a  
their eviction notices, the stu­ process has demonstrated an  primarily with the welfare of  each other. It would indeed be  deviation from this mission and  
dents at Notre Dame should  apparent lack of concern for its  the students, they would have  a tragedy if these friendships  makes the decision more  
carefully examine the events of  students.  announced the decision to take  were to be severed.  difficult to accept.  
the past few months. This let­ In delaying the announcement  effect at the start of the 1993­ We call upon the administra­ Mark A. Woodmansee  
ter should not be viewed as  until shortly before semester  94 school year. The University  tion to guarantee the Pangborn  Pangborn Hall President  
sour grapes, but rather, it  break, the University has in- could have then admitted  residents a floor (or as much  Dec.3,1991  
Residents deserve support , not ridicule  
Dear Editor:  Now, before any other idiots  And now we're being sepa­ 
I am a Freshman resident of  out there decide to pull similar  rated.  
Pangborn Hall.  moronic stunts (although I  I would like whoever's read­ 
At 2:35 AM this morning, my  doubt that anyone could be of  ing this letter to think about  
telephone rang. I answered it,  the same caliber as the  how you'd feel if the same thing  
but no one responded. I asked  butthead who called me), con­ happened .to your dorm. If you  
"Who is this?" The caller then  sider this: Pangborn Hall is our  can then understand how we  
yelled out, "I hear you guys got  home. Our home. And the  feel, maybe you will also see  
castrated tonight!", broke into a  residents and rectors of  that a little kindness and sup­ 
fit of laughter, and hung up.  Pangborn have become our  port will help us more than  
Very cute. I've got some ad­ second family. We have  taunting and ridicule would.  
vice for you.  adjusted to being away from  Stephen Susco  
Get a life, get a brain, and,  our families by finding support  Pangborn Hall  
most needed by you, get some  and companionship within our  Dec.4,1991  
dignity.  dorm.  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE O F THE DAY  

50HW 
HAV£3. rrJU A urru;; GUYS ~ BeeN~ OUT. .. 
I \ 
RICK'~ 813f3N PR&­PARING A MAJOR 5T(}fzyABOUT!?AN QUAYLe. He'S 8E:eN 
IAIOR.!<IN6 ON IT AROUNI? THe axt< FOR 7HI?et3 tlflaKS... 
\ 
H/3 RNAUY Fltw LA5TNIGHT. 
I'M JU5TGlAO H/3'5 UJITH 7H£3. IA/A~HIN6TDN POST. MOST OTHeR. PAP&RS t«XJti?N'T llM& TOIJOf A~ U/<elH/5! \ 

YOU WHAT? 
I 
1</UWIT. SOR/?Y, RIC/<, IA/eTHINK 
QUAY£.8 HA'3 6r<aAJN. 
\ 
'The reputations of universities are driven by the research and graduate programs and professional programs, not by undergraduate schools.' 
Father Edward Malloy 
Hey hey Helen, submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Viewpoint

Tuesday, December 10, 1991 Page 9 .. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Column wrongly criticized Coach Knight, 'Hoosier Hysteria' 
Dear Editor: 
This is just a commentary on the recent Inside Column that attempted to attack Indiana University basketball coach, Bob Knight, and this state's perception of the sport. Being a lifelong resident of Indiana, I must admit that I was disap­pointed that my home state and a sport that it cherishes were so carelessly slandered with the assumptions of the column's author. The limited information presented as evidence for the author's points is clearly insufficient and definitely mis­leading. 
The author would have his maders believe that the people of Indiana recognize only those within the state's borders as having any legitimate, mar­kntabln basketball skills. This is simply not true. He points to tlw fascination with the Indiana high school basketball tourney as the foundation for his theory; and he uses Indiana University's basketball program, its coach and its players, as his flimsy supports. 
I rnalize that I may, in the author's opinion, sound like another "arrogant Hoosier" in this article. That is not my in­tention. I just don't wish any­one to be misinformed. 
Well, it is true that Indiana residents get excited about their high school basketball teams. That's why they call it Hoosier Hysteria. This statewide devotion to this facet of high school athletics is virtually unparalleled anywhere else, hence the publicity, (and perhaps the wrong impression). 
But, all in all, the fans are just that-fans. They love the game itself. Of course, fans get dis­appointed when a prospective star leaves or when their fa­vorite team loses, but such is the nature of sport. and most people realize that. If they did not, they probably would have quit playing a long time ago. 
Now, to address the fuss over hoops at IU. The author ac­knowledges Coach Knight's great coaching abilities, and then criticizes him for not coaching in a different way. The author also uses the coach's contract with Adidas sweaters and his discipline and his colorful language as a basis for alleged arrogance. 
Then, in another bout of omniscience, the author simply says that Knight is "not a great man," using as evidence an analogy about rape and hopeless situations that was taken out of context by the national media. 
I am not excusing Mr. Knight's temperamental behavior or apologizing for his occasional lack of eloquence, but I am saying that his program speaks for itself. It is clean, successful and under his control. Knight promotes work· ethic, dedication, excellence, preparation, discipline, execu­tion and sportsmanship. He loves and tries to win, but he insists upon doing it honestly. 
Now, from time to time pro­grams suffer the loss of key players. These players leave for many reasons. The author seems to think Knight virtually shoved Isaiah and Bird out of Bloomington and then later re­gretted it out of not being able to hang up more NCAA banners in Assembly Hall. 
Again, Knight does things his way. Those players came to play for him and they freely chose to leave. Sure there were anticipations, sure there is disappointment, but there should be no apologies exacted from anyone. 

Again, such is the nature of the game. (Perhaps the author would care to make the same claims of wrongdoing with regard to the early departure of someone like Rocket Ismail.) 
Oh yes, who should be the real hero of Indiana fans? The author says not Damon Bailey. He takes a stab at the fanfare over what he thinks is a stereo­typical Indiana basketball player. He feels there is too much support for Bailey and not enough for players like Calbert Cheaney. Nonsense. Basketball fans in this state certainly admire the talents of Cheaney, as well as other sup­posedly atypical Hoosiers like Isaiah. 
The fact is that the fans sim­ply enjoy the game and the tal­ents of its exceptional players. They enjoy it more if it gives them a sense of pride. Players like Bailey and Alford received a lot of attention statewide during their high school ca­reers, and the fans ate it up. The same was true of standout Jay Edwards, who might fit into the author's atypical category. They led their teams into the local spotlight, and reaped the benefits thereof. 
Bailey and Alford just happened to adjust more easily to the college lifestyle of Edwards. Nevertheless, they play on teams, and they acknowledge the importance of doing so. That leaves little room for arrogance on the court. 
Books have been written about many of the issues which the author has dragged to the foreground. There is a wealth of information and opinion about all of them. I just think that the editorials should be written with a little more sub­stantiation than can be pro­vided by some slanted assump­tions and an article in Sports Illustrated. 
Basketball is an international game which the people of Indiana love. Unfortunately, haphazard journalism seems to be the new game in town. 
Andy McGuire Cavanaugh Hall Dec.4,1991 

Indiana U. fan-s display their pride, not prejudice 
Dear Editor: 
I found Holando de Aguiar's Inside Column (The Observer, Dee. 4) poorly conceived and vt~ry offending. While I do not disagn1e with thn controversy of Bob Knight, the connection between Knight's shortcomings to the inference that Hoosiers wtlnl all racists because they cheered Damon Bailey harder than Calbert Chaney was abso­lutely ridiculous. 
It is true that basketball is a big deal in Indiana. Communities rally around their local high school teams and use the games as times of fellow­ship, sources of pride, and sup­port for their local youth. Indiana University (along with Purdue and Notre Dame) is but one part of the general fascina­tion of Hoosiers with their fa­vorite sport. 
As a hjgh school player myself. I found the atmosphere in this state both positive and encouraging. And we are obsessive. Few states could sell out a 50.000 seat stadium to see a high school game. 
But the quotes in the article such as "Indiana fans don't seem to revel in the talents of Chanoy or Thomas nearly as much as Bailey or Alford ... They aren't typical Hoosiers" infer that tlw people of this state are all racist. Prejudice is an easy monikor to throw around, even with an obvious lack of any knowledge or care about the accused. 
Fascination started with Damon Bailey when Knight watched him play in eighth grade. That an eighth grader could merit so much attention from one of the most successful college coaches in the nation grabbed the imagination of fans throughout Indiana. As a high 
The Observer retains 
schooler, Bailey graduated as the state's all-time leading scorer and led Bedford to the state championship over the top-ranked team. 
This is what basketball in this state is about-rooting for the small town team playing against the odds. From Milan (the team that inspired the movie Hoosiers )to L & M (a school with approximately 60 total students that made a serious run at the championship), we have always loved to see the underdogs pull the upset. Also, we applaud homegrown talent and skill. Apparently Mr. Aguiar thinks we just like Bailey because he is white. 
I find it laughable that Aguiar thinks Hoosier fans do not support black players. Every IU fan cheered wholeheartedly when Isaiah Thomas led the team to the championship and felt the loss when he decided to turn pro early. 
Keith Smart was the most heralded player after the 1987 chaJllpionship, not Alford. No one would argue that Chaney, a pre-season All-American pick, is the key to IU's season. That the issue of prejudice needs to be defended in this way is a sad testimony to the ease which one can accuse another, without fact or logic. 
Before you begin throwing around inferences of racism and insulting an entire state, you should at least check the story. Aguiar demonstrates the same prejudice that he drops on Hoosier fans by stereotyping us as prejudiced, small town white trash. 
Dan Fulkerson Zahm Hall Dec. 7,1991 
the right to edit all 

Analysis of therapeutic reorientation failed 
Dear Editor: 
My letter of Nov. 1 had re­quested physician-philosopher AI Howsepian to supply View­point with an analysis of the clinical literature/experience and moral reasoning supporting his position concerning the possible therapeutic reorienta­tion of homosexuals. 
His response was both im­pressive and disappointing. I assume the range qf Dr. Howsepian's erudition is obvi­ous to us all and take note only of aspects which disappointed me. (1) He mentioned no moral reasoning concerning the status of homosexuality, whether as a mere orientation, or as a basis for sexual activity. 
Since some of us prefer a Church less authoritarian than the mafia or Lenin's Russia, implicit appeals to the magis­terium will not suffice for all. Dr. Howsepian knows the teleo­logical reasoning implicit in the scholastic moral category of unnatural acts will not pass muster in the context of the simplest or the most sophisti­cated current forms of the bio­logical "synthetic theory" of evolution (M. Ruse, 1988), or within literature on childhood development and homosexuality more recent than any cited in his article (e.g., R. Green. 1987; 

M. & S. Cole, 1989). 
Consequently, what Dr. Howsepian failed to do in this respect is at least as significant as anything he did in his review of clinical literature. 
I do not agree that (2) etiology (causation) of homosexuality is irrelevant to the effectiveness of therapy. I grant the merely philosophical point that in some possible world it might be irrelevant, but in this one it is not. Howsepian admits that the consensus of the literature he reviews is that therapy is most (only?) effective when the patient is strongly motivated to change sexual orientation. 
He does not examine the rele­vance of etiology to motivation. Consider the following typical scenarios: A has inherited ge­netic/epigenetic disposition to develop a homosexual orienta­tion in a wide range of normal human environments; B is the victim of homosexual abuse as a non-consenting child; C has been seduced into what has seemed a consensual affair, but which seems abhorrent upon reflection. Does Dr. Howsepian expect us to regard such etio­logical scenarios as irrelevant to motivation concerning changing one's sexual orienta­tion. 
His arguments (3) support conclusions much weaker than those he asserts. He shows only that some homosexuals highly motivated to change their sexual orientation have had some success following variously effective therapeutic regimens, some of which rely on aversive conditioning. His analysis fails to consider the possibility of adverse side ef­fects of any regimen he men­tions. His concluding criticism of the Notre Dame Psychology Department is premature and contentiously question-begging. 
Edward Manier Department of Philosophy Dec. 4,1991 



ND can show compassion, holiday spirit by helping Native American 
Dear Editor: 
On Thanksgiving Day, a newspaper in a nearby town ran a featured interview with a local Native American named John Montana. The point of the interview was to offer the per­spective of a Native American about the effect of Columbus's "discovery" of the "New World." 
The newspaper also included Montana's picture. Although Montana spoke personally and not aggressively, his interview was printed under a headline that announced, in essence, that a local Indian thought constituting the community of Notre Dame are genuinely caring and compassionate people, and I want to make us aware of what happened to Montana for agreeing to give this interview. 

Montana is very poor-he doesn't own a car-and the next day he was walking home (to his young wife and baby girl) after having cashed his pay­check when he was spotted by five men who beat him for be­ing "an Indian" and who left him in a gully with a broken rib and cracked jaw. The men also took his money. 
Notre Dame, to remember that another holiday is approaching and to consider what the ex­pense of this season must mean, in reality, to this man and his family right now. 
I would ask anyone who might be moved by this holiday's spirit to contribute to a fund I am starting for John Montana. I will see to it that any gift you would like to share will be delivered at least a week before Christmas. (You may reach me through campus mail, Department of English, 356 O'Shaughnessy.) 

America was better off before Putting aside all the attendant Jacqueline Brogan 
commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint 
Columbus. ironies of this event, being Associate English Professor 
department. Please note that the more concise the 
I am writing this because I triggered by a Thanksgiving Dec.4, 1991 piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. believe that many people story, I want us, particularly at 
------·---------------------------------------------------------------~ 


Accent 
page 10 Tuesday, December 10, 1991 
By JEANNE DE VITA 
Accent Writer 
Assistant Professor Indi Dieckgrafe is Saint Mary's Dance. During the six years she has been part of the SMC fac­ulty, she has created, quite lit­erally, a name for dance. 
"There were not a lot of openings out there," Dieckgrafe recalls of her days right out of college. "The (dance) job mar­ket was closed. I was excited about Saint Mary's because they wanted to build a dance program." 
"I began teaching really quite early, because I found it really quite fascinating to relay the material...I understood concep­tually, and taught adults who conceptually understood, but struggled with the physicality," Dieckgrafe said of her first teaching experiences. 
Despite her extensive study of the many dance techniques, Dieckgrafe enjoyed modern dance most and after "jumping around" from Kansas State University to the Boston Conservatory of Music to Wichita State University, Dieckgrafe received her Master of Fine Arts from University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana in modern dance performance and choreography. 
In the fall of 1985 Dieckgrafe began her job of building a dance program at SMC. When she began at the college, dance was a small contingent of the Communications and Theatre Department. "I had a lot of ideas on how to build a pro­gram," she said. 
Dieckgrafe began by helping make dance a recognized area of study: the program began with a self-designed 12 credit hour minor. The focus of the minor is performance, with up­per level technique classes, his­tory and general study courses included. 
Last year, a landmark step was taken: dance became part of an academic department. Now Dieckgrafe is assistant that." 


And when the desire is ther.e, the facilities are not. This year alone, Dieckgrafe has lost one



Dieckgrate revitalizes 
Saint Mary's and one Notre Dame student from the respec­tive institutions because the dance program could not ac­commodate the students' need to dance. "What could I say ex­cept 'bye-bye'?" asked
dance at Saint Mary's 
Dieckgrafe. 

But is dropping out of a clas­sical program of study to pur­sue an interest in dance a practical consideration for stu­dents? 
"I think it is a sensible thing to do," said Dieckgrafe, speak­ing from her own experience. During her pursuit of formal dance education, Dieckgrafe also danced professionally with modern companies such as the Susan Warden Dancers, Illinois Dance Theatre, and Mid America Dance Theatre. 
"If there's a will, there's a way-you can make a name for yourself, you can make a place for yourself in the arts." said Dieckgrafe, who could easily have been describing her fam­ily's experience with dance. 
The list of teachers that Dieckgrafe has studied with is long and illustrious: David Ho Choy and Mady Cantor, one time Graham students, Jim Sutton, and Isa Bergsohn. 
"I'm torn," Dieckgrafe said. Her physically consuming work conflicts with her dedication to family. Dieckgrafe admits that professor of the Department of performances. ographed for the spring by she must wear a lot of different Communications, Dance and Dieckgrafe spent that year Dieckgrafe and Mayer­hats to satisfy all her different Theatre. taking master classes, refining McCarthy, bring attention to the roles. But she describes her Dieckgrafe said that dance at her technique, renovating an dance community. struggle as the same as those of 
SMC needs space and teachers. old Victorian house she bought But the opportunity and cur­other women in the 90's. 
"I would like an above ground with her husband, Kevin riculum required for serious "It's tricky and tiring, but studio," said Dieckgrafe. But Dreyer, an assistant profes­dance study is lacking at SMC, sometimes so rewarding to before any long term changes sional specialist on the faculty Dieckgrafe. "It's a small and have that (a family) and to be could take place, there would of Notre Dame, and spending young department," said able to do what you love to do," 
have to be an increase in the · time with her two daughters. Dieckgrafe. "It has a lot of po­said Dieckgrafe. 
faculty, she said. "I think the dancers are on a tential. I just wish I had more While tired, her outlook is At present, Dieckgrafe is the roll," said Dieckgrafe. The de­serious students. I hate the optimistic. Dieckgrafe summa­only dance instructor at SMC. partmental and club perfor­word competitive used with the rized her worthwhile struggles: Her responsibilities include not mances such as the Madrigal arts, but the real dedication "You want to push your stu­only teaching four classes, but Dinners, and the Service of that comes out as art and en­dents always, you have to chal­advising the Dance Collective, a Lessons and Carols held at the ergy (in a formal dance pro­lenge them ... I hope I am, but I joint SMC-ND dance club, or­end of the semester, as well as gram) and sense of commitment have to wear all those different ganizing, and participating in the creative pieces chore-are not always there.. .I miss hats." 
Follow for Now's debut promises big future 


By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
For several years, groups such as Living Colour, 24n Spyz and Fishbone have successfully synthesized funk, metal, punk, rock and rap, creating their own styles of music. 
In the wake of these successes, countless groups have been signed by major labels, each with their own attempt at making a new compound out of the already existent elements. 
The latest player in the arena of Black Rock is Follow For Now, a five-member outfit hailing from the musically fertile soil of Athens, Ga. 
This town, immersed in the history of the South and the creative atmosphere of the University of Georgia, has a well­documented history as a hotbed for musical talent. R.E.M., the B-52's, and less-known but similarly influential acts such as Pylon all once played the clubs of this city of 50,000. 
Emerging from this scene gives Follow For Now instant credibility. Competition for exposure in Athens. which is un­derstandably a magnet for many young bands from the South, is among the most intense in the nation. 
Follow For Now's debut album showcases the many different styles the band can play. The quintet shows it can rock with "Evil Wheel" while rapping on 


follow for Now 
Follow for Now * * * 1/2 
(out of five) 
"She Watch Channel Zero." 
The latter is a reinterpretation of the track from Public Enemy's landmark album, It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back. Follow For Now goes on the offensive with guitars and rhythm, amplifying the confrontational riffs from the PE version. 
However, the rap on "... Zero" is lacking. After the force with which lyricist Chuck D delivers the original, Follow For Now comes up short. 
This song is not the only Public Enemy standard which Follow For Now bears. "Follow For Now" is a lyric taken from "Bring the Noise," the controversial first track from It Takes A Nation of Millions. 
Like Public Enemy, Follow For Now is not afraid to protest the oppression of Afro-Americans in this country. 
In "White Hood," lyricist David Ryan Harris straightforwardly proclaims his blackness and his hatred for the white hood of the Ku Klux Klan. "I like the red, the white, and the blue I But I won't tolerate the white hood I F--the baseball, keep the apple pie I 'cause I won't tolerate the white hood." 

Like so many other black artists, Follow For Now shows its distaste with police. On "Trust," the band asks what to do about the police it once trusted. 
"With all the robbers and killers and rapers and haters following me I If I need to run your way would you try and save me I Or incarcerate me 'cause I don't have no ID?'' 
Though the band openly protests social ills on several cuts, it also finds time for a love song. "6's and 7's" is a funky tribute to a woman which shows the fun side of a band deeply involved in the problems of its people. 
However, this lighthearted theme is quickly lost, as the band exposes another social problem on "Temptation," which chronicles the drug use of a young woman. 
With their debut, Follow For Now has taken roots in soul and funk, and added rock and metal to the potpourri, for an intriguing mixture. The fact that we can learn from it makes the music that much better. 

Tuesday, December 10, 1991 The Observer page 11 
. 

Royals ink Joyner to one-year, $4.2 million contract 

MIAMI BEACH, Fla. (AP)­Wally's world is moving to !he Midwest. 
First baseman Wally Joyner decided to leave the California Angels on Monday and signed a one-year, $4.2 million contract with the Kansas City Royals. The contract matches Nolan Hyan's 1992 deal as the highest one-year contract in baseball history. 
The Angels had offered Joyner a four-year deal for $15.75 million but there were problems with the payout schedule and the deal started to fall apart about a week ago. 
"It's the toughest decision I've ever made," an emotional Joyner said. "I enjoyed my time with the Angels -that's where Wally's World started." 
Joyner arrived on the scene in 1986 just down the road from Disneyland. He hit 22 homers with 100 RBis as a rookie and became an instant fan favorite. The next season, he hit a ca­reer-high 34 homers and drove in 117 runs. 
But his numbers tailed off after that and he had some bit­ter arbitration battles with the Angels. Last season, Joyner made $2.1 million and hit .301 with 21 homers and 96 RBis. 
"I didn't see my future with the Angels," Joyner said while trying to hold off tears. "It has never been an issue of money. I have a lot of integrity." 
Barry Axelrod, Joyner's agent, said he thought a deal was wrapped up with the Angels on two occasions only to have California try to change the language. 
"There's been a lot of pres­sure that built up," Joyner, 29, said. "I apologize for making a scene. My record for the Angels speaks for itself." 
In six seasons with California, Joyner compiled an average of . 288 with 114 homers and 518 RBis. 
"One of our primary goals this offseason was to acquire another solid hitter who could can produce runs," Kansas City general manager Herk Robinson said. "We believe Joyner fills that role and will be a solid addition to our club. He has been very consistent throughout his career and coming to Kansas City was his first choice." 

Joyner's agent also talked to the Los Angeles Dodgers and the New York Yankees. The Royals will allow Joyner to be­come a free agent after the 1992 season, while Los Angeles was unwilling to include that in the contract. Joyner did not want to play in New York . 
"I signed a one-year contract so I could solve the problem immediately," Joyner said. "Kansas City is a great place to play. I would like to stay there as long as I can. The Kansas City Royals and I are a perfect fit." 
The Angels acquired Von Hayes from Philadelphia on 
Sunday for two minor leaguers and he may take over at first base for California. The Royals, meanwhile, facing the loss of free agent Danny Tartabull, aren't finished trading. 
"We're still looking to help our offense," Robinson said. "We have some pitching we may be able to trade." 
Angels general manager Whitey Herzog made an at­tempt on Sunday to keep Joyner, but the damage already was done. 
"My reaction this morning shows my frustration," Joyner said. "A one-year deal is fine with me with the possibility of free agency at the end of the season." 

The Observer accepts classlfieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classllleds Is 3p.m. All classified& 
Classifieds must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents par character par day. Including all spaces. 
•  NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ALTERATIONS AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 259-8684. WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 CUSTOMIZED WORD PROCESSING Reports/resumes/letters. 271-1618. Fast. Professional Typing 277-7406 RELIABLE CHILD CARE SOUGHT Alumni couple seeks babysitter lor 6 mo. old infant. 9 HrSiwk, min. Exper-ience with infants preferred, references required. Phone: 287-0260 CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS to Ll. NYC, and NJ STILL HAS ROOM I $110. VCR. Call Anthony Cornelia at 17511 LOST/FOUND "''''''''HELP'""''''' I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE JACKET AFTER THE FARLEY­FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN LAKEVILLE.IN. CHRIS X4327. FOUND: A Pair of wire rimmed eyeglasses was found Sunday night ( 12-1) on a walkway across from the JACC. If they're yours and ya want 'em -call X388511 ............................ LOST: One NAVY BLUE EDDIE BAUER BACK PACK In bookstore on friday. Contains computer diskats that I desperately naedl If you have them please 1111111 Return them to Please call #2817 $$$ REWARD IF RETURNED NO QUESTIONS ASKED .............................. LOST: textbook in 3rd floor Cushing classroom a first course In real analysis whoever has it, you don't really want lt ­its a math book call Matt x1652 LOST-THICK SILVER CHAIN with BLACK AND SILVER AHNK at BRIDGET'S SAT NOV 23. Christmas gift from parents-serious sentimental value. Call J-P. 271-0742 No questions asked  LOST: Black and gold Citizen watch with inscription on back. Lost in Washington Hall some time Friday or Saturday night. If found, please call Paul at x 1208. Thanks. WANTED Wanted: Drivers to take a 1987 Camry auto to Seattle, WA; will pay $100 plus gas; call291-4608. WANTED FRIENDLY COLLEGE AGE FEMALE FOR PART-TIME BABYSITIER. MUST LIKE KIDS. MOSTLY EVENINGS WITH SOME FLEXIBLE DAY TIMES. CALL KARYL LEE 233-6390. Have AA Tic. SB to MN Fri, Dec 20, SPM Will Trade For Earlier Flight Same Day x1523 $40.000/yr! READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY I Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11 KEB. SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791. WANTED: Ride to Washington D.C. area for Xmas break. Please call Allison x4928 FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. Furnished. $200. /Mon. $150. Dept. Call277-8866 Tuas/Sat. 10am/5pm. Near N.D . cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285 dap. ref. 288-7207 Nice So. Band home, 5 mins from ND. Wshr/dryer, rafrig, stove, dishwasher, A/C & garage. $420/mo.+dap. 232-8943 Mark. NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE FOR NEXT FALL Two 4-BR furnished homes with security systems and washer/dryer. 259-7801 or 255-5852 for mora details. Female Graduate Student: FREE room and board In exchange for minimal "nanny" (baby-sitting) services. Transportation necessary. Please call239-7308. Portage Ava. House: '92-'93 yr. 6 bedrms. , 2 baths, Lrg. living rm. & yard. Washer & dryer. Furnished. Extra safe area. 234-38311288-5653  RENTAL-TURTLE CREEK 2BR-Furnished, Avail 111 Call collect 708-446-9286 480 mo.+ ht. 2 RM'S FOR RENT 200 PER MONTH USE OF ALL UTILITIES ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 4-6 Bed Rm. Furn. House, New Carpet + Vinyl Firs., Wash/Dry, Alarm syst.. Across From Bus Stop. Bast houses will be gone after X­Mas. 233-9947. FOR SALE AIRLINE TICKET: CHICAGO TO DENVER ROUND TRIP. DATES VARIABLE (OVER X-MAS BREAK). CALL ANDY 283-1305 MINOLTA X370 35mm Camara, 50mm Lens, 2x Lens, flash, and more. Like new. $225, OBO. 233­2344 after 5. CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 vw $50 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. Need to sell: 1 way tic to LAX Dec 19. x3720. South Band to Philadelphia-for sale-one way plana ticket for Dec. 22 at 7:00am. Call Ellen x2929. 16 GENESIS GAMES x1746 TICKETS NO ALUM SEEKS 2 REASONABLY PRICED SUGAR BOWL TIX. (415) 579-1432. Tkt SB-Boston, mala, Dec. 19, $111. Call287-8656. Spend New Year's in Florida I $2,400 Value I 3 RT tix Indy to Miami Lv 7am 12125, Retrn 4pm 1/5 Price: $1,750. ph (812) 448-3188 MUST SELLIII Cheap Sugar Bowl tickets and roundtrip airtara. Call us and make an offer. x1485 or x1529 Extra Sugar Bowl nx available and NEED to be sold I call Marko, x3587  GOIN' back to Cali for XMas? I HAVE A R.T. TICKET TO L.A. FROM S.B. LEAVES FRIDAY AMI CHEAP! ONLY $355.001 GIVE ME A CALL FOR DETAILS: KATIE X2668. PERSONAL Happy birthday Joe Robarts. Monica Eigalbargar is a ho. LOST: One NAVY BLUE EDDIE BAUER BACK PACK in bookstore on friday. Contains computer diskets that I desperately neadl If you have them please IIIII II Return them to Please call #2817 $$$ REWARD IF RETURNED NO QUESTIONS ASKED stronger than burt INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quota 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. Yo Dude Check out the vol. # GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15 Due to reduced seating, tickets will be sold for the first time aver @ info desk in LaFortune for $1. HURRY, HURRY AVOID THE RUSH. PLACE YOUR CHRISTMAS GREETING PERSONALS EARLY. THE LAST ISSUE FOR THE OBSERVER IS FRIDAY, DEC. 13. Lando Livas MATERIAL ISSUE-TONIGHTIII tickets still available at LaFortune Info Desk 8:30pm only$5.00 ' special guest = Guttarboy '"MATERIAL ISSUE'" tonight 8:30pm $5 gat your tickets now at the info desk, tall your friends Ill '"MATERIAL ISSUE"' 0¢¢ The Copy Shop 0¢¢ LaFortune Student Center WHEN YOU NEED COPIES WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FLY ANYWHERE USA $189 AfT. The 1992 Student Travel Update is hare. 24 hr. info. 716-383­2168  Need Ride to Pittsburgh for Christmas. Santa's sleigh is full so I need help. Call Eric X1026 Beware-The Prince of Tides is coming .. -Lowenstein Top 11 Quotas from Flanner Christmas Formal: 11. Often I don't eat. 10. Is she your real sister? 9. Jim called twice. 8. It's a Kodak moment. 7. I haven't made her laugh all night. 6. I have roast beef and cheese down my cleavage. 5. Newton! 4. Sax is an alternate way to lose weight. -3. Hide your baerl 2. I'm not argumentative. 1. It's okay, he's deaf and doesn't know what I'm saying. Knott Hall's 1st 1-H Championship! Undefeated 6-01 Woman's Volleyball The Angels (B's) Rule I Lyons 1-H Volleyball team: Thanks so much for the awesome finals game, you ware our bast competition this year-let's do it again sometime! Love, The Knott Angels A special thanks to all those who came to see "The Christmas Carol" this weekend. We raised over $1,000 for Dismas House, and we couldn't have dona it without you. Thanks I And we hope to sea you at our next play. Sincerely, THE FLANNER-SIEGFRIED PLAYERS ......................... 'AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL' Peace Vigil December 10th at 9:45PM on the steps of the dome afterwards help us send cards to prisoners of conscience HOLIDAY CARD ACTION Dooley Room -LaFortune 'AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL' Top Ten Reasons to wish Erin ~ Cannon a Happy Birthday: 10. Or she'll torture you with her alarm 9. She's the "mom" of the family 8. She's from hemp 7. She puked all over the side of H.C. 6. She'll pick you up from Azar's at 4p.m. 5. It's Christmas time 4. Kalby wants her 3. She belches like a trucker 2. It comas only once a year 1. The rag 6 said sol  Dasparata woman seek to sell extra Sugar Bowl Tixlll call Sandi or Laura, x2732 l'lllllly: 1'1111 vlcllall, ..vll:lllll .. .......111111111mill..,.., l'lllllt lll*lltlll:br IW' R IIIII I !!.,!11__ Cl'llll....,!11~--~,..!11--_­____...,!11______.,!1 ACNE A NASTY FOUR LEITER WORD If you had started on clear Care Acne Treatment 30 days ago, you would be clea.r of Acne today For free samples, information on ho\\ Oear Care's topical medications work, Call our Skin Care Information Line (800) 435-3533 RESERVAnONS AVAILABLE NOWI DAYTONA BEACH -lfD4 5 M><l 7 NIGHTS SOUTH PADIE ISLAIID -lf28 S AND 1 NIGHTS f STEAMBOAT -122 2. S AND 1 NIGHTS PANAMA CrrY BEACH -lf22 7 NIGHTS FORT LAUDERDALE -'fJti 1 NrCHTS HI1TOII HfAD ISUIID -lffJ 5 AltO 7 NIGHTS IIUSTAIIC ISLAND I -lfJI PORT AIANSASSAND 1 NIGHTS QJ• lith Ann-1 : -Celebratlonl • ... TOLL FIH INFOIIIIATION &IISRVATIONS,·800·:52,·59,,  
------------------------·--------------­ 

page 12 Wednesday, December 10, 1991

Scoreboard 


AUmtlc  Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pel  
Boston  t3  6  .684  
New York  tt  6  .647  
Philadelphia  9  tO  .474  
Miami  8  tO  .444  
Orlando  6  tt  .353  
Washington  6  t4  .300  
New Jan~ay  5  t3  .278  
Central  Dlvlalon  
Chicago  t5  3  .833  
Cleveland  tt  6  .647  
Atlanta  tO  9  .526  
Datroh  9  tt  .450  
Milwaukee  9  tt  .450  
Indiana  8  t3  .38t  
Charlotte  6  t5  .286  

WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat Dlvlalon 
w L F'd Utah t2 8 .800 San Antonio tO 7 .588 Houston 9 8 .529 Denv81 8 tO .444 Canas 7 12 .388 Minnesota 3 t3 .t88 
Pacific Dlvlalon Golden State t2 5 .706 LA Laka111 t3 6 .684 Portland t3 7 .650 Seattle tt 7 .6tt Phoenix t2 9 .57t LA Clippers tO 10 .500 Sacramento 6 12 .333 
Saturday'• Gamaa Phiiad~hia t03, Chicago too Charlotte 109, Orlando 95 Phoenix t09, Miami t08 New Vorl< t37, Atlanta t28, 20T Cleveland 99, Washington 97 Portland 1t5, Indiana tt2 Utah 96, Houston 9t Seattle t04, Dallas tOt LA Cl~rs tOt, Minnesota 87 Golden State t24, Sacramento t20 
Sunday'a Gamea Milwaukee t02, San Antonio 83 
LA Lake111 t 03, Dallas 88 
NBA LEADERS 
Scoring 
G FG FT Jordan, Chi. t8 2t5 t07 Wilkins, Atl. t9 t93 t39 K. Malone, Lhah 20 2t0 t47 Drexler, Port. 20 205 92 Mullln,G.S. 17 t84 73 Ewing, N.Y. 17 t85 63 Richmond, Sac. t6 t57 63 Robinson, S.A. t7 t65 84 Daugherty, Clev. t7 t49 t07 Adams, Wash. t6 t25 tOt Hardaway, G.S. 17 t53 64 Bird, Bos. t8 t63 75 Pierce, Sea. t7 t42 98 Scolt,Orl. t5 t22 60 J. Malone, Lhah 20 t76 78 Worthy, LAL t9 t60 76 Blackman, Oall. t7 t34 8t Hornacek, Phoe. 2t t72 7t Miller, Ind. 2t t5t t06 P~n.Chl. t8 t47 74 Hawkins, Phil. t9 t27 tt9 I. Thomas, Det 20 t54 95 
Reid Goal Percentage 
FG FGA Pel Barkley, Phil. tt6 t73 .67t Grant, Chi. ttt t79 .620 Parish, Bos. 110 t79 .615 Williams, Port 83 136 .610 Daugherty, Clev. 149 251 .594 
p,..ry, Phoe. 96 162 .593 Cage, Sea. 78 134 .582 Robinson, S.A. 165 288 .573 Thorpe, Hou. 120 214 .56t 
Edwards. Lhah 103 t84 .560 
Pis 
544 
542 
588 
530 447 433 40t 4t4 
405 
38t 397 4t6 389 
329 
430 
399 
356 439 439 37t 39t 4tt 
CB  LtO  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
8-2  Won3  9-2  4-4  9-5  
t  7-3  Wont  7-0  4-6  t0-4  
4  3-7  Won2  8-4  3-6  7-9  
4tl2  2-8  Lost4  6-4  2-6  6-7  
8  2-8  Lost3  4-7  2-4  8-6  
7tl2  2-8  Lost5  2-8  4-8  4-8  
7t12  4-6  Lostt  2-6  3-7  3-8  
9-t  Lostt  7-t  8-2  8-2  
3t12  8-2  Won2  8-0  3-6  9-2  
5t12  5-5  Lostt  5-4  5-5  5-8  
7  4-6  Wont  5-6  4-5  7-tO  
7  5-5  Wont  7-3  2-8  6-7  
8 t12  4-6  Lostt  6-4  2-9  5-5  
tO tl2  4-6  Wont  5-4  t-tt  5-tt  
CB  l10  Streak  Home  Away  Coni  
7-3  Won3  6-t  6-7  7-4  
t12  4-6  Lost4  8-t  2-6  6-6  
tt12  4-6  Lost5  7-3  2-5  6-5  
3  4-6  Lost2  7-4  1-6  6-8  
4tl2  4-6  Lost4  5-6  2-6  6-6  
7  2-8  Lost4  2-6  t-7  3-t2  
6-4  Won3  6-2  6-3  8-3  
7-3  Won2  7-t  6-5  7-3  
112  7-3  Wont  8-3  5-4  5-5  
tt12  6-4  Won3  6-3  5-4  6-5  
2  9-t  Won7  6-3  6-6  8-6  
3tl2  5-5  Won4  8-4  2-6  7-8  
6tl2  3-7  Lostt  5-4  t-8  3-7  
Monday'a  Game  

Boston t32, Denver 94 
Tueaday'a Gamaa 
Milwaukee at Atlanta, 7:30 p.m. 
San Antonio at Indiana, 7:30p.m. 
New York at New Jersey, 8 p.m. 
Seattle at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
Mlani at Dallas, 8:30p.m. 
Orlando at Lhah, 9:30p.m. 
Datrol at Phoenix, 9:30p.m 
Houston at Portland, to p.m 
LA Cl~rs at Golden State, t0:30 p.m. 
LA Lake111 at Sacramento, t0:30 p.m. 
Rebounding  
G  01  Del  Tot  Avg  
Willis, All. 19  108  223  331  t7.4  
Rodman, Oat. 20  1t7  t83  300  t5.0  
Mutonbo, Den. 17  80  t59  239  14.1  
Cage. Sea. 18  92  144  236  t3.t  
Robinson, S.A. 17  73  144  217  12.8  
Ellison, Wash. 17  72  t36  208  12.2  
Anda111on. Den. 17  68  134  202  11.9  
Johnson. Char. 21  88  158  246  11.7  
Saikaly, Mia 17  70  121'  197  11.6  
K. Malone, Lhah 20  52  172  224  1t.2  
Thorpe, Hou. 17  64  126  190  11.2  
AMiata  
G  No.  Avg.  
Stockton, Lhah 20  269  13.5  
Hardaway, G.S. 17  184  9.6  
M. Williams, Ind. 21  186  8.9  
Boguas. Char. 21  t79  8.5  
Adams, Wash. t6  136  8.5  
Johnson, Phoe. 20  16t  8.t  
Skiles, Orl. 17  t36  8.0  
Richardson, Mlnn.16  t21  7.6  
Jackson, N.Y. 17  126  7.4  
Dawkins, Phil. 19  140  7.4  
I. Thomas, Det. 20  t47  7.4  

THE AMERICAN HEART ASSG:IATION MEMORIAL PRG;RAM., 

WE'RE FIGHTING Fa< 'lOUR UFE 


Avg 30.2 28.5 28.4 26.5 26.3 25.5 25.t 24.4 23.8 23.8 23.4 23.t 22.9 21.9 2t.5 21.0 20.9 20.9 20.9 20.6 20.6 20.6 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.O.s 8c M.O.S 

SOUTH BEND 273-1866 



MEN'S 

1. Notre Dame 
867.5 2.LaSalle 
784.5 
3. Fordham 
535 489.5 278 163.5 160 

112 
104 ~10. St. Peter's 61 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL -American League BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Agreed to terms with Gregg Olson, phchar, on a two-year contract. 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS--Agreed to terms with 
Wally Joyner. llrst baseman, on a one-year 
contract. 

MILWAUKEE BREWERS--Named Thomas 
Gausdan director of player negotiations. 
OAKLANO ATHLETICS-Nanned Doug Radar 
hitting Instructor. 
WOMEN'S 
1. Notre Dame 2.LaSalle 
3. 
Boston College 

4. 
Fordham 

5. 
Seton Hall 

6. 
Providence 

7. 
Holy Cross 

8. 
St. Louis 

9. 
Manhattan 


9. St. Peter's 
11. Catholic Univ. 
928 617 470.5 373.5 358 347 260 136 32 32 
4 

II ATLANTA BRAVES--Waived Jeff Parrelt, p~char, lor the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terms with Paul Assanmacher, phch81, on a three-year contract. Oaslgnatad Yorkll Perez, pitcher, lor assignment~ CINCINNATI REDS--Acquired Craig Puaschnar, outfielder, from the San otego Padres as the player to be named later In the Randy Myars-Bip Robarts trade. 

OUR WORKSTATIONS HELP YOU MASTER 
EVERYTHING FROM MATH TO SCIENCE TO MUSIC. 
BUT COME FEBRUARY, OUR DISCOUNT 

WILL BE HISTORY. 
NeXTstation~ computers are extremely fast and powerful workstations. But you'll 
have to be fast yourself to take advantage of our special holiday savings, recause they 
end January 31st. 
Even without savings, the price/performance of these workstations is unequaled anywhere in the industry. They offer features like an easy-to-use graphical interface, 8MB of RAM, enormous disk storage, astandard UNix_® operating system, true multi­tasking, and a 15MIPS CPU. They also have built-in Ethernet networking, alarge 
SAVE $150 
NeXTstat1on 400MBHD 

SAVE $200 
NeXTstat1on Color 200or 400MB HD 

SAVE $100 
Pri~ter 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
AnnounC9C me resignation Pat O'Conner, director o4 Florida operations. 
MONTREAL EXPOS--Waived Nelson Santovenla, catcher, lor the purpose o4 giving him his uncond~lonal release. Named Phil Favia and Dennis Cardoza scouts. 
NEW YORK METS--Traded Blaine Beatty, pkcher, to the Montreal Expos lor Jeff Barry, outfielder. 

monitor with true display PostScript~ and abuilt-in DSP chip for CO-quality sound. 
They're ideally suited to every kind of academic work-from computation-intensive math and science projects to re!X)rt writing, complicated research, in depth analysis-and yes, even com!X)sing music. 
Thafs partly because the best versions of many industry­leading software prcxlucts are the ones written for NeXTstations. These prcxlucts include WordPerfect~ Adobe Illustrator~ Lotus® 
lmprov;· Soft PC~ and agreat many more. Mathemauca~ the acclaimed numeric-processing software, is even included free. Given all this, about the only way we could improve the price/performance of aNeXTstation is to make the price lower. Which is just what these 
6 

special savings do. We recommend you visit your campus reseller tcxlay-before ~ 
~~!~ ~~;~.~O~:;ri~~=~~ -~-~~t~~.;X7.1o~o nnd N<X7itnlion "" r.illl!
!md•m•rt.< of.\",.\/. (omp""'· lnr .41/oJ!J"tmdnnorl-< """''"nm!.-lo•tloi!Jmmwln.v""'""'-~ 
All Next Computers are sold at the University Computer Store Room 112 Math & Computing Bldg. 
------------~~-~ -----­
Tuesday, December 10, 1991 The Observer page 13 

Handley says his mistakes led to Giants' problems 
EAST RUTIIEHFORD, N.J. (AJ>) -Ray Handley finally admitted what many New York (;iants fans have come to real­ize-he's no Bill Parcells. 
In fact. Handley said trying to do things this season the way Parcells used to do them was his biggest mistake as a rookie coach, and one of the many reasons the Super Bowl cham­pions won't be around for the playoffs. 
For all practical purposes, the Giants' season ended Sunday when they dropped a 19-14 decision to the Philadelphia Eagles, and the Atlanta Falcons ddeated e Los Angeles Rams 
:~ 1-14. 
The loss lnft New York with a 7-7 record and no chance of getting to the post-season with two garnns left in the rngular season. It was something few onvisioned when llandley took over the Giants' coaching job in May following Parcells' unex­pected resignation, just four months aftnr New York won its 
Frosh 
continued from page 16 
well," explained Taylor, "I know I'll eontinue to make the shots. I shot tlw ball pretty well tonight. I knew I had to wait and look for my shot, and it paid oil'." 
Taylor's hot hand caused a few problems for Valparaiso, aeeording to Drew. 
second Super Bowl in five years. 
''I'm surprised," Handley said Monday. "Obviously, I'd hoped for a:· great deal more than that." 
Handley, the team's running backs coach last year, said the Giants have been in position to win all their games except two, but just haven't gotten the job done. 
"Last year we got it done," he said. "This year we didn't get it done. Whether that's bounces of the ball or decisions I've made or whatever, I can't assess that at the present time." 
Giants fans on Sunday squarely put the blame on Handley, who before this year had never been the head coach of a team higher than the high school level. 
Chants of "Ray Must Go" could be heard from the Giants Stadium crowd by the middle of the fourth quarter. 
Handley has a year left on his current contract, and there is 
"Taylor played such a fine game for a freshman. He ex­tended our defense and we weren't able to give the atten­tion we wanted to Ellis," he said. 
Taylor also had a strong game defensively despite having to guard the elusive Tracy Gibson, who scored 30 points for the Crusaders. Taylor grabbed three defensive rebounds and made two steals. 
no reason to believe he won't be the head coach next year. 
Asked if Handley might be in trouble because of what hap­pened this season Wellington Mara, the team's president, replied:. 
"Not with me he isn't." For the most part, the Giants' problems have been easy to see. 
They have found the worst times to commit penalties and turn over the ball. Their offense has struggled with both Jeff Hostetler and Phil Simms at quarterback and their defense has given up too many big plays and failed five times to protect fourth-quarter leads. 
Handley also said he has been at fault, particularly in taking charge. 
"I think that probably in the last two to three weeks that I have a greater resolve now to be sure things are done my way," Handley said. "If I made any mistake this year, I maybe took this job and looked at my­self as a caretaker of a team 
"Defensively, Gibson was hard to guard," said Taylor. "He took a lot of shots." 
Russell was Mr. Versatility, alternating between point guard and the post. He tied for second in team rebounding with Taylor with five, and also~ notched a 'steal. 
"Malik [Russell] is probably the only college player today who plays a backup point guard and then three minutes later is that was obviously coming off the Super Bowl." 

Handley said that had he got­ten the job before May, he might have overhauled things. 
"I tried to work within the framework that I knew the Giants work best," he said. "If I made a mistake maybe I tried to take Bill Parcells' team and coach it as Ray Handley's. In the future any team coached by Ray Handley will be a Ray Handley team. I don't regret what I did. I regret the results as they now stand." 
Handley said there are some things he knows he will stress next season. He would not say what they were. 
Hostetler said some things need to change, especially in the approach to offense. 
"We definitely aren't the same team we were last year," Hostetler said Monday. "There are different things we were doing better last year than this year. Sometimes we tried to or the issue and continue doing 
playing backup post. That's an unusual blend, but he has the ability to pass the ball as he did tonight," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. 
Russell doesn't mind switch­ing positions, but he has a preference of which he plays. 
''I'm used to it," Russell said. "In high school, I switched po­sitions too. It gives me a chance to play more, but I'm partial to the point." 

Advent Penance Service Tuesday, December 10, 1991 
10:00pm, Sacred Heart Church 
Rev. WiUiam Seetch, esc, Rector, F/anner Hall, Presider Opportunity to individual confession following the service. 
., 
CDMPUS 
MINISTRY 
things we did last year." 
The obvious example was Giants' play inside the oppo­nents' 20. Under Parcells, the offense doggedly ran the ball and scored. They tried the same thing earlier this season and failed. In recent weeks, they have been more successful mix­ing the run and pass, and that will probably be the trend un­der Handley. 
"We need to change things to a different type of team," Hostetler said. He begged off when asked whether the team needed a total overhaul or just better play from current play­ers. 
Handley also would not say how much the makeup of the Giants would change after this season. He said it might be a gradual change or it might be dramatic. 
One thing was certain, the New York Giants next season will be built to play football the way Ray Handley thinks it should be played. 
Russell's size comes in handy at the point position, especially when he's being guarded by someone who's 5-foot-9. 
"Russell gets to see the whole floor, which is a serious advan­tage," said Drew. 
Overall, the two freshmen played great games. 
"I like what Billy and Malik did tonight," said MacLeod. "Our younger players are look­ing more confident." 
dunk over Suiter that brought Ellis to the line for the three­







Valpo 
point play. After the made free throw, the lead was down to

continued from page16 
two, 47-45. gave them a 41-32 halftime Valpo star Gipson kept the lead. 
Crusaders in the game. He "That was the finest first half 
scored 19 second-half points of the year for us," said and 30 for the contest. Valparaiso coach Homer Drew. 
The Irish played nip and tuck The second half saw the hot 
with Gipson, narrowing the lead shooting Crusaders cool off 
and finally tying it, until Ellis enough to let the Irish back into hit a jumper with 5:26 left that the game. 
gave Notre Dame the lead for Notre Dame got things going 
good. behind great defense and Ellis. After Taylor hit a layup with Ellis cleaned the boards and 
1:55 remaining, the Crusaders took over in the pivot. With were forced to foul, as they 
were down 66-60. Elmer Taylor miss to close the Irish 14:10 left, Ellis tipped in a 
Bennett came through with sev­within five. 
eral clutch free throws to nail Then, mt1ch to the chagrin 
down the victory. and amazement of a packed "It was a big win," said Valpo crowd, Ellis slammed 
MacLeod. "I like the way we down a massive one-handed 
came back in the seeond half. We showed a lot of poise." 

t>~==~:::-~~~===-~~::7=:·~==·1 
j ' 
~~\J) 'TOO Jtlspa.n.i.c .American Orqamzatwn \ ' 
~~-l ~~ ~ " Presents <" ~~ 


I ~ ~mwalw i 
I Ii
~ .A cdebra.twn of Mary and Joseph.'s journey to Bethlehem 
"-' I
8''. Dlau: »--m6u 1Ilk ~·~·:
II Tt.m.: 7:31 P.n. 
. 

~ • • l&arUIMJ pot.m wW k ia fnmt of iJM no-. .;. 
i~ f'oUowm &9 ...._ c.c.&...u.m ,.__,Uon in DUion's I·~ ,~, T.V. Lcnm4Je. Hen~ ltu.tl.etlts from. •U.ffuant RhnU:: I 1.:·. &lldi.4Jrovn4s wiU shal-e tlack CIWI.stmos ~;vstoms j 
•.. 11-114 foods. Join us us -~;tdmnl&e die ar-rWul of I ~ CIWlstmas. ~ 
I CO-S1'0N80R.t:.D lly: I 
HlSP~tc ...tl'1.ER.tC~ OR.~ru>N
1 1
! LUGUE Of' t.I.N'LTEll lATIN ...tl'1.ER1.C~ C'l.TIZENS Ii BLA.CIG CULJURAL ..utTS COI.I.NC1L I "-' LIO'ICES Of' T..\tm aosPU. ENst:.11.11LE 18 BL...l.C1G CU(,TIJRAL ..utTS ft:.STtVA.L ~ ~ N..\nvt:. ...tl'tt1ttcA.N SnmENT ~TWN ..\T NOTR.£ Ml"1l:. 1 
L. 
...\~ ~ 

lli£ ONiCt: Of' M.'LNOR.1.T1J S1UDENT ..uT..\1.R.S ~ ··~·•x,_,,.~,~-~:~~-~~~,~~·~ 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, December 10, 1991 

B.P. begins defense of title 
ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
The women's interhall bas­ketball leagues tipped off the season last week with their only set of games scheduled before Christmas break. 
In the Gold division, Siegfried scored an impressive 48-22 vic­tory over Lyons. Leading the way was an imposing front court composed of senior Barb Mariane, junior Mary Arens, and freshman Ellen Burns. 
Arens described a complete turn around in Siegfried bas­ketball. 
"Last season we were win­less. It was totally disorganized. This year we have new coaches, a new attitude and a lot of interest in our team," she said of the team which includes six freshmen. 
Defending champion Breen­Phillips came away with the week's most lopsided score, thrashing Pasquerilla West, 48­
20. This season, the team will be led by the experience of se­niors Christine Churchill and Lora Mangan. 
If anyone knows how good BP basketball can be, it is Lewis. Last year's Blue league cham­pions lost to the Blitz in the fi­nals. 
"BP always has a good team," said Lewis senior Jill-Beth Hayes. "My freshman year, they beat us in the champi­onships. The next year, they played Pasquerilla West, and last year we lost to them again in the arena." 
Lewis downed Knott in a low­scoring 23-20 contest. 

"We haven't had much time to practice," said Hayes, who as­sured that the intensity of coach Ed Larkin will help them develop. 
"We still ran the ball, but there was a lot more passing," explained Hayes of the week's lowest scoring game. "We have some good ball-handlers. We lost one senior, but we have a really good group of freshmen." 
Other Blue league games were equally close. Howard out-dueled Pasquerilla East, 40­38, while Farley got by Walsh, 25-24. 
In the Green league, Breen­Phillips showed their wealth of basketball talent, as their B­team ·defeated Farley B, 33-20, and Siegfried B won by forfeit over Howard's second squad. 
Wrestlers place 21st in Las Vegas 
Observer Staff Report 
Led by Marcus Gowens' sev­enth-place finish, Notre Dame's wrestling squad earned 21st place at the prestigious Las Vegas Invitational this weekend in Las Vegas. 
The Las Vegas Invitational, attended by 42 collegiate wrestling teams from across the country, features perennial powers from the Big Eight as well as Notre Dame's Big Ten rivals. 
Iowa came away on top with 152 points, trailed by Iowa State, with 132.25 points. Notre Dame earned 21st place with 
21.5 points. Eastern Michigan and West Virginia sat ahead of the Irish in the standings, with 23 points. 
Gowens, wrestling at 126 pounds, cruised through his first two rounds before falling to John Burton of Nebraska in Saturday's quarterfinals. 
Gowens earned a fall over Chris Nedstester of Cal-Davis at 
4:10 of their match, and then defeated Cal Poly's Mike Contreras by the convincing tally of 7-3. 
Gowens was the third seed in his weight class after placing eighth at the. tournament last year. Burton, the sixth seed, de­feated Dan Schumacher of Northern Idaho 8-6 in a difficult second-round match. 

Notre Dame's Todd Tomazic was able to win his first round match at 177 pounds before falling to eventual fifth-place finisher Kenny Green of Michigan, 10-5. 
Junior 158-pounder Emil Soehnlen easily defeated Southern Colorado's Clint Pipher in a first round match. However, Soehnlen lost a tough 12-3 match to eventual third­place finisher Ray Miller of Arizona State. 
At 118 pounds, Chris Jensen won his first-round match be­fore falling 3-2 to Larry Doran of Boise State. 

Mackovic heading to Longhorns? 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) ­Illinois' John Mackovic appears to be the leading candidate to succeed David McWilliams as Texas football coach, according to published reports. 
Mackovic, in Chicago on Monday for a Big Ten meeting, is expected to interview for the job in the next day or two. 
Attempts to reach Mackovic by telephone at his hotel were unsuccessful. Telephone calls to the University of Illinois athletic department early Monday night were not immediately returned. 
The Austin American-Statesman said Texas athletic director DeLoss Dodds may meet with Mackovic in New York, where they will attend the College Football Hall of Fame 
The Dallas Morning News said Mackovic was expected to fly to Austin on Tuesday to meet with school officials. 
Dodds has declined comment about possible replacements for McWilliams, who resigned under pressure last week fol­lowing a 5-6 season. 
But a member of the search committee, which met in private with Dodds and university president William Cunningham last week, said: "I think it's done. I kind of do." 
When McWilliams resigned, Dodds said the Longhorns' next coach would be someone with major college, and possibly pro, experience. Dodds also said he wanted a coach who could make Texas a Top 10 team and tie, which the Longhorns haven't won since 1969. 

Mackovic's Illinois teams have compiled a 30-16 record. This year's squad is just 6-5, but will play UCLA in the John Hancock Bowl on Dec. 31. 
Mackovic was head coach of the NFL's Kansas City Chiefs and an assistant with the Dallas Cowboys before coming to Illinois. 
Texas went 31-26 during McWilliams' five years in Austin, including three losing seasons. 
The American-Statesman said other candidates for the Texas job include Bobby Ross of Georgia Tech, Dick Sheridan of 
North Carolina State and Bill 

SPORTSBRIEFS 
•Sports 
briefs are accepted in writing Sunday through Friday until 5 p.m. at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit a short brief, your full name, and the date the brief is to be run. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions. 

•There 
will be a meeting for the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame women's lacrosse club on Thursday, Dec. 12 at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. 

•Catch 
the semester finale of Sportstalk from 8 p.m. until 9 p.m. tonight on WVFI. Call 239-6400 to talk about football, basketball, or anything else worth complaining about. 

•Attention 
Rowing Club: Members are reminded that we are taking out the dock this Thursday. Everyone's assistance is needed, and time involved will be minimal. Meet at the Main Circle Thursday at 4:30p.m. for rides. 

•There 
will be an organizational meeting Dec. 11 at 7 p.m. in Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall for all interested students. Call Kerry Wate at 283-1752 if you have questions. 



dinner on Tuesday night. a contender for the national ti-Curry of Kentucky. r 
.AmericanHeart Association 1NE"RE FIGHTII'G I'm 






God gives each 

ND Boxing Club
'tO.JR LIFE 
Guatemalan Imports 


personone lifetime. 
Informational Meeting For The 
Returns with new shipment (great Christmas buys) 
What are you 
1992 Bengal Mission Bout 
Vests

* doing with yours?
Shirts Hooded Bajas 

All interested students are invited.
Have you considered 
Fanny Packs 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR?
Beaded Jewelry 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the
and avariety of hats, 


Wednesday, Dec. 11th,
University of Notre Dame for college graduates 

beltS, purses, barettes interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime & headbands. of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
7:00pm
Scholarship assistance is available. 
Traditional Indian Clothing & 
nu:h, IIIICh, morel Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. 
LaFortune 
Congregation of Holy Cross 
oec.B-13 
Box 541 from 1Dam -5pm Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6~85 .
in the Sorln Room 


r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------­
Tuesday, December 1 0, 1991 
Ct I'" 
...... ~ 
~ ~-t; . 
A, •'
. . 
The Observer 



l KEEP FORGEmNG \1.1~1 
FIVE OF HIS SIX ENDS AP£ tD\t,ni 'tl\.lt.N 11£: LIE~ LIKE. m\T. 
\ 
I 
(. ..... ' 
I ..>
•
~ • 
page 15 

"I'm sorry, Mr. Caldwell, but the big guy's on his way out. If you want my opinion, take him home, find a quiet spot out In the yard, and squash him." 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 

ACROSS 

1 Moscow-Washingtonconnection (2 wds.)B Cut short, as a 
takeoff 13 Crane of fiction 14 Synagogue scroll 15 Old Robert Conrad 
TV series (4 wds.)19 Part of TWA 20 Iowa State U. site 21 Dixie (abbr.)22 March-command words 23-beer 25 Give a hoot 26 Sixth sense 27 Massage28 Siouan Indians of 
Nebraska 30 Pertaining to the wind 
34 Fit to be tied 35 Mozart's birthplace (2 wds.)38 Style of painting
(2 wds.)39 -Scrolls 40 Change the actors 42 Pretending shyness 43 "-Kapital" 
46 Scrooge's wards 47 Gathers in 50 Girl's name 51 "-on parle
francais" 52 Old Ireland 53 Darn 54 Relief from bore­
dom (3 wds.)58 Approaches59 Dunk 60 Common­61 Skin swelling 
DOWN 
1 "-deck!" 2 Yellow shades 3 U.S. mountain range 
(2 wds.)4 Grassy areas 5 Wading bird 6 -pros.7 Actor ByrnesB "Once upon -" 9 Ravel composition
10 Commands (abbr.)
11-deal 
12 Rommel's battle­ground ( 3 wds.) 
16 Hove like a tail 17 Prefix: layer 18-of Galilee 23 Former British 
singing star 24 "-in the hand ..• " 25 A la ­
27 Dole and Byrd 
(abbr.)29 Young girl31 Poet Pound, et al. 32 Mature 33 Civil rights
organization35 Fruit-derived acid 36 "Do I dare to eat 
-.?"--T.S. Eliot 37 Japanese herbs 41 Judge and jury 44 Loath 
45 Finn's friend 48 Uneven, as if 
gnawed away49 WWI group50 Descartes and 
LaCoste 52 Actor Richard ­53 Ancient Gauls 55 Once named 56 Kinsman 57 950, to Brutus 

Tuesday • 
9:30 a.m. • 4:30 p.m. Annual UNICEF holiday card and gift sale. Concourse, Hesburgh Library. 
10 a.m. • 5 p.m. St. Nick's Christmas Bazaar. Lobby, LeMans Hall, SMC. Admission free. 
.. 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
4:15 p.m. Sesquicentennial Lecture Series, "Donors, Dollars and Determination: Library Collections at Notre Dame," Maureen Gleason, deputy director of University Libraries. Hesburgh Library Lounge. 
.. 
MENU 
Notre Dame  •  Saint Mary's  
Oven Fried Chicken  
Make Your Own Burrito Bar  Hot Wrap Ham & Cheese  
Garden Vegetable Quiche  Turkey A La King with Hice  
Baked Chicken with Herbs  American Lasagna  
Deli Bar  

r 
I 



I Sports 
l 
page 16 Tuesday, December 10, 1991 
i I Irish top Valparaiso for first win of Macleod era 
I 
I Notre Dame overcomes 11-point deficit for 71-66 win 
I By ANTHONY KING in the second half," explained used multiple screens to get
i Assistant Sports Editor LaPhonso Ellis. "We cut down shooters free for easy buckets. 
i the available shots." The Crusaders evened the game VALPARAISO-John However, in the first half, at 17 at the 10:24 mark on a MacLeod's first victory as Notre Notre Dame could not find a lay-in by Scott Morrison. Dame's head coach was not an way to stop Valparaiso's flex After a TV timeout, the easy one. offense. Crusaders took the lead on a The Notre Dame men's bas­The Irish (1-3) jumped to any Lance Barker backdoor layup. ketball team survived a hot early lead behind the hot as the Irish struggled on de­shooting and scrappy shooting of freshman Billy fense. Valparaiso team to earn its first Taylor and Ellis. Ellis thundered The flex then began to dick, 
win of the season, 71-66; last home a dunk and drew the foul as Valparaiso was getting un­
night. to give Notre Dame a 5-4 lead. contested shots and burying 
The Irish found themselves After a Daimon Sweet layup, them. down at halftime, 41-32, but Ellis hit a turnaround jumper Barker knocked down two their defense rose to the occa­between a pair of Taylor three-pointers. and forward sion in the second half. The jumpers to extend the Irish Eric Suiter nailed three Crusaders (3-3). who shot 62 advantage to 13-4. jumpers, including a three­percent from the field in the "Taylor was on fire," com­pointer, to expand the Crusader first half, were held to under 35 mented Ellis. lead to 39-30 with 1:18 left in percent in the second half. However, Valparaiso got the the half. Tracy Gipson's layup 
"We played very good defense flex going after a timeout, as it see VALPO I page 13 
Freshmen Taylor, Russell star in their first collegiate win 
By JENNIFER MARTEN for second in team scoring with lead since the middle of the first Sports Writer Daimon Sweet with 16 points, half and Russell's basket just behind LaPhonso Ellis's 17. marked the closest Notre Dame VALPARAISO-Freshmen Billy "It really hurt us when Taylor had been since then. His second Taylor and Malik Russell saw and Bennett did sw;h a good job basket came a few minutes their first win of the season as of hitting the 15-18 footer," said later, and it put the Irish up by 
well as their first win in Irish Crusader coach Homer Drew. four. 
uniforms last night. The young Russell, a 6-foot-7 forward "It was definitely my best 
pair played big roles in Notre from Brooklyn, N.Y., was on the game all around. I passed well 
Dame's 71-66 victory over floor for 24 minutes and led the and was pretty strong defen­
Valparaiso at the Valparaiso team with five assists and sively," said Russell. 
Athletics-Recreation Center. scored four points. His two Taylor was hot all night, hit­
"It felt really good to get the baskets came late in the second ting 8-of-11 from the floor. He. first win," said Taylor. half. came out shooting extremely 
Taylor, a 6-foot-4 forward For the first score, he re­well, with a near-perfect five-of­from Aurora, Ill., played the en­bounded his own miss and put six mark in the first half. tire game and led the team in it back to tie the score at 52 "Whenever I can start out field goals with eight. He tied with 8:37 remaining in the 
see FROSH I page 13
game. Valparaiso had held the 
Men's swimming takes National Catholic Championship 
By JASON KELLY behind to edge the opposition, and the 200 breaststroke in tinued his impressive swimming Sports Writer but not this year. Notre Dame 2:05.84. with second-place finishes in won with an 86 7 112 total, while Greg Cornick's time of 46.72 the 500 freestyle with a time of 
Rolf's Aquatic Center is be­second-place LaSalle could was good enough to win the 4:37.71 and the 400 individual ginning to look like Boston manage only 784 1/2. Fordham 100 freestyle, while Jim medley in 4:06.86. Garden. as the men's swim was a distant third at 535, and Birmingham and Colin Cooley Broderick and Cornick also team earned another champi­host Boston College finished also earned first-place finishes helped bulk up the Irish point onship banner from the fourth at 489 1/2. in the 50 freestyle and the 100 total with second-place finishes National Catholic Swimming Many outstanding individual breaststroke, respectively. in the 100 butterfly and the 200 and Diving Championships. performances highlighted the The Irish also dominated the freestyle, respectively. 
For the third straight year, four-day event for the Irish, relay events, winning the 200 Only one more meet awaits the Irish took the title. This who were coming off a tough free relay in 1:25.24, the 400 the Irish before break, as they time in convincing fashion. meet at Illinois where they lost free-relay in 3:06.47 and the look to continue their winning 
In each of the last two years, to four of five dual meets. 800 free-relay in 6:53.61. ways on Friday night at Bowling the team has had to come from Ed Broderick led the way, Freshman Mike Keeley con-Green. 
• 
Jean Joseph wins Observer award Overcomes early season injury to become top scorer 
By JASON KELLY to get the ball in scoring "He put people on the field who Sports Writer position, and I was able to be could get the job done and there to convert." sometimes that meant eight or 
A talented freshman class His offensive prowess came as nine freshmen." was billed as the best Notre no surprise to the coaching staff Joseph got the job done to the Dame men's soccer recruiting as he collected 48 goals,17 tune of 26 points while playing class ever as the season began assists and 113 points in his in just 15 games to become the last September, and the cream high school career at the Lovett first Irish freshmen to lead the of that crop was Observer School. team in scoring since current Player of the Year Jean Joseph. However, being successful on junior Kevin Pendergast's 29 
After sitting out the first five the high school level does not points led the way in 1989. 
games of the season with a leg always ensure success on the Had he been healthy all sea­injury, Joseph entered the Irish college level, and Joseph cites son, he surely would have 
lineup with a vengeance. the leadership of the upper­eclipsed Pendergast's mark. 
An offense that could not classmen as a major factor in "I felt like I was really ready convert golden scoring oppor­the development of the fresh­to play when the season tunities was the biggest weak­man class. started, so it was disappointing ness the Irish faced early in the "The leadership of the juniors when I got hurt," he explained. season, but the addition of and seniors really helped us "I think I could've played theat Joseph cured many of the improve," he said. "I think we much better if I had been able 
team's offensive woes. [the freshmen] had the ability, to play early in the season." 
Although he became the but the upperclassmen taught Throughout the season, the Irish's main offensive weapon us how to win on a higher level men's soccer team showed during a midseason seven-game of play." flashes of brilliance against winning streak, the freshman Second-year coach Mike some of the nation's best teams, from Marietta, Georgia down­Berticelli also helped teach the and if Joseph and the rest of the plays his skills. freshmen how to win. freshman class continued to 
"I was sort of the trash man "He [Berticelli] had confi­improve, the best days lie of the group," he explained. "A dence in us and he knew we ahead for the Notre Dame lot of people worked really hard could produce," Joseph added. men's soccer team. 








