~-------------------------------------­

VOL. XXIV NO. 3 8 rNo. z,c;] Thursday, October 17,1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Faculty Senate requests better representation 
By SANDY WIEGAND 
Associate News Editor 
A eall by llw Faeulty Smwto for lwttor n~pn~sentation on the Antd om i e Co u nr.i I reeei ved mixed to negative rnaetions from the same administrative body rnnmtly, Snnate members said Wednesday. 
Tlw Stmatn's resolution asked for I 0 additional tdected faeulty nwmbnrs on the Aead11mie Council. a governing body eon­
sisting of administrative, faculty ner the l'aculty Senate does and stud1111t representatives. now. In faet, some Senate members suggested, the Senate 
The resolution also rnquested eould be setting up its own dis­that University Prnsidcnt Father solution. Edward Malloy, who presides over the Aeademie Council. he But Frank Connolly, associate stripped of the privilege of professor of Mathematics, said appointing the three faeulty it might be five years or more members on the executive before the Senate would be­committee of the Council. come obsolete if the recom­
mendations were adopted. 

Tho new Academic Council would also be able to establish Administrators' objections to standing subeommittees to ad­the resolution ranged from dress issues in the same man-calling it "radical" and 

Pizza Talk 


Engineering students discussed important issues yesterday as part of the Engineering Activities Fair. 
Rezoning petition is unfavorable 

By DAVID KINNEY 
Associate News Editor 
A nmming pPtition by Pan­dora's Books rPrPiwd an unfa­vorablP rorommPtHlation from llw An~a PI an Co mm issi on TuPsday night. areording to platliiN Srott KugiPr. 
Tlw bookstorP rPenntly struck a tPntatiw eompromise with the city that would allow it to Pxpand. Tlw city would rezone a par<~el of land from 'A Hesi­dPntial' to 'C Commercial.' In return. tlw owners of Pandora's would sell a pim~n of land on the eorrwr of lloward St. and Notre Damn Aw. and drop a lawsuit against the city. 
Tlw owrwrs of the bookstore plan to 1'!1plaee the present Pandora's and two other houses on the corner of Howard and St. Petnr's St. with a two-story, 6,200-square-foot building. A parking lot would be placed on a parcel of land aeross the street from the new bookstorn. Kugler said. 
Thn commission votnd 9-2 to snnd the n~quest to the council with the recommendation that it not pass the petition; six members were not present to participate in the vote, said 
Kuglf~r. 
The vote of the Area Plan Commission is not binding, but the petition must still get tho approval of the County Coundl and Mayor .Joe Kernan. Kugler said that it is difficult to de­termine whether the petition will pass in thn eouncil. "We'll have to wait and stw," he said. 
KugiN said that a number of residents of the northeast neighborhood spoke in opposi­tion of the expansion request, induding Art Quigley, president of the Northeast Neighborhood Association. 
Opposition to the petition cited a number of disadvan­tages to the expansion. Kugler said, including: 
• the possibility of increased commercial spot zoning in resi­dential rwighborhoods in the city. 
Pandora's is one of several non-conforming commercial establishmAnts and student housing in the area. If the city grants the 'Commercial C' re­zoning request to the bookstore, other establishments could also request rezoning, according to Kugler. The city could not accept the rezoning petition of the bookstore and reject a petition from a similar establishment, he added. 
• the proposed building on the site is twice the size of the original plan. 
• the plan would encourage 
parking on the street. 

Tim llartzer, lawyer for the Notre Dame-Howard Partner­ship that owns Pandora's, and City Attorney Hichard Nuss­baum spoke in favor of the ex­pansion of the bookstore, Ku­gler said. 
They pointed out that it is generally considered good planning practice to blend resi­dential and commercial areas. Kugler said that the commission did not necessarily agree with this premise, because a commercial hub is located only a few blocks from the area. 
Hartzer and Nussbaum said that the expansion would be beneficial to the neighborhood, aecording to Kugler, because it would involve tearing down the current bookstore and two other houses, which are consid­ered eyesores. 
This is the most current in a number of attempts since May 1990 by Pandora's to either ex­pand or move. In each case, pressure from the neighbor­hood and city restrictions have led to the failun1 of the owners' attempts. 
Residents of the neighborhood believe that this proposal is more dangerous than other attempts by the bookstore to expand and move in the past, said Kugler. 
"populist" to saying that 10 dations to the dean. after both more members would make the the departmnnt ehair and de­Council "unwieldy," Senate partmental Committee on Ap­members said, but Malloy pointments and Promotions promised to bring his own rec­have sent the dean their rec­ommendations to the next ommendations. meeting of the Aeademic Coun­cil which will take plaee Decem­The resolution was a wa­ber 3. ternd-down version of a resolu­
tion passed by the Senate last 
In other business, the Faculty year, which Malloy said he Senate approved a resolution would veto. according to David stating that department chairs O'Connor of Academic Affairs. are permitted to inform candi­The new proposal must be dates for tenures, renewals or passed by the Academic Council promotions of their recommen-to be effeetive. 
GSU talks about an on campus smoking policy 

By JULIE BARRETT 
News Writer 
Women's resources and smoking on campus were among the various issues dis­cussed at the Graduate Student Council meeting last night. Up­coming activities planned for grad students include a llal­loween costume party and the formation of a Wilson Commons Committee. 
The GSU Women's Hesource Committee recently mailed out a directory on women's re­sources available on campus to all female students at SMC and NO. 
"(Female) students don't real­ize how many women's re­sources there are on campus," said Patricia Quattrin, ti~JC graduate student rnpresentativn for the Faeulty and Student Committee of Wom~n. which put together tho booklet. "I was even surprised at how many were listed." 
A finalized smoking policy 
limiting smoking to spneilk ar­eas on campus is scheduled to come out on Nov. 21. aecording to .Joel Barstad, the (iSU repre­sentative on the Smoking Task Force. This nnw poliey is a con­scious niTort by tlw task foree to encourage smokers to quit and to protect non-smokers from secondhand smoke. 
All grad studPnts are invited to a llallowenn costume party on Oct. :{I. Students are asked to bring canned goods for charity. 
The first deadline for appli­eations for thn Travel (irant Fund is NoVPmber 15, accord­ing to GSU Prnsident Kurt Mill. 
Grad students arc needed to volunteer to help the GSU exec­utive committee evaluate and recommend improvements for the ' Wilson Commons. scheduled for Sunday. Oet. 27. 
For more information about GSU plans and activitif1s or any concerns. fen! welcome to stop by the GSU office. located in room 200 in LaFortune. or call 239-(,963. 

The Observer/Dave Hungeling 


Neither rain nor shine 
Sally Lochmonday had all shine and no rain yesterday as she picked up the mail from in front of South Dining Hall. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A look inside a Notre Dame photo album 
Flash! 
Everywhere I go, everything I do, I bring my camera with me. National Championship? Captured on film. Circus Lunch? Commemorated in color. 
Allow me to share with 


you some select excerpts  Paige Smoron  
from  my  photo album,  
pictures I will  no doubt  Assistant Accent  
someday treasure as visual  
proof of my idyllic life at  Editor  
Notre Dame.  

•Here's 
a shot of the Dome. I love the way the sunlight glistens on its glossy surface, making it seem almost... golden. 

•This 
is my freshman friend, Donnie, dancing on top of a radiator with an empty case o Meister Brau on his head. Donnie is having trouble adjusting. 

•That's 
my best friend, Chris, at our Indiana tailgater, holding a beer. 

•Here's 
Chris again, getting a hot dog, holding the same beer, but in her other hand. 

•Okay, 
this is Chris, this time with a com­pletely different beer. 

•There's 
Chris, over by the Hibachi, holding a-badger? Oh, no, wait, it's just a beer. 

•Here's my friend Nicole, hugging me. 

•This 
is a picture of the Dome I took with my zoom lens-looks like it's right there in the room with you, doesn't it? 

•Here's 
Nicole, hugging both me and Chris, who's holding a beer. 

•Wait, 
there's Donnie again, drinking out o his penny loafer. I think he's starting to loosen up. 

•This 
is a super-close range self-portrait me and Chris took of each other. That's my nostril-or maybe her beer. 

•Here's 
my Lyons Little Sister, Steph, going to a dance with a tall boy in a navy blazer with a red tie, holding a red rose. 

•There's 
Steph again, going to a dance with a tall boy in a navy blazer and a striped tie, holding a red rose. 

•Here's 
Steph with a tall boy in a navy blazer and a really nice paisley tie, holding a red rose. I liked that guy. 

•That's 
Nicole, hugging Steph's date, who's wearing a tie depicting the islands of Hawaii, and holding a red rose. 

•There's 
the Dome, from a northwest angle~at night, in black and white. 

•Here 
are some action shots from keg softball. Everything's so blurry-or was it just me? 

•Here's 
Donnie, with rolled-up dollar bills in his nose and a banana in his ear, singing along with the "Saturday Night Fever" soundtrack. I'm so glad he's trying to make friends. 

•Okay, 
this was supposed to be a shot in the football stadium of all the arms saluting Lou, but all I got was this guy's armpit. 

•That's 
Nicole, hugging the boy with the armpit. Oh, and there's Chris in the background, holding a beer. 

•Here's 
a shot of the Dome I got by hanging out the third floor of LaFortune upside down using a fog machine. 


I think I'm going to frame that last one. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's STaff News Production Lauren Aquino Kathy Fong Steve Zavestoski Cheryl Moser 
Ad Design Photography Kathy Benz Tim Farish Molly Belden Dave Hungeling 
Sports Scoreboard Anthony King Mike Scrudato 
Viewpoint Business Rich Riley Colleen Gannon 
Lab Tech Accent Sean Farnan Jahnelle .Harrigan 
Patrick Moran Graphics Fran Moyer Ann-Marie Conrado 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) 1s published Monday through Fnday except during exam and vacation penods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction nghts are reserved. 


Thursday, October 17, 19~
The Observer 
..:· 
FORECAST: 
Sunnier Thursday and much warmer. High in the mid 70s with cooler temperatures at night. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Athens 64 55 Atlanta 71 46 Berlin 64 50 Boston 59 55 Chicago 49 28 Dallas·Ft.Worth 82 50 Denver 79 41 Detrok 52 28 Honolulu 84 75 Houston 86 50 Indianapolis 56 26 London 57 55 Los Angeles 81 62 Madrid 66 46 Mlarri Beach 77 72 New Orleans 79 58 New York 61 50 Paris 63 52 Phllade_,hla 67 52 Ronne 68 61 
St. Louis 57 39 San Francisco 72 55 Seanle 77 53 South Bend 75 48 Tokyo 71 55 Washington, D.C 76 50 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Soviet economy suffering 
• BANGKOK, Thailand -Offering Western leaders figures that paint a grim picture of his country's economy, a top Soviet reformer today predicted an explosion of unrest if the republics do not join in economic union by spring. An economic treaty among the republics on new arrangements in such fields as currency, banking and internal trade is considered by many Western economists as key to securing substan­tial foreign help. Grigory Yavlinsky, a Soviet economic advisor, issued the warning about the economic treaty at the annual meeting of the World Bank and Interna­tional Monetary Fund. 
Muslims. Christians clash 
• KANO, Nigeria -Muslims defied an overnight curfew to hunt for Christians as religious rioting spread into a third day. The official death toll was put at eight late Tuesday, but other estimates said up to 300 people may have been slain. Government troops have failed to contain the violence, which began Monday when thousands of Muslims took to the streets to protest the police granting permission for a Christian revival meeting. Muslims were angered because a few weeks e~rlier police denied a permit for a South African imam to come to Kano, an Islamic stronghold in the Muslim­dominated north Nigeria. 

NATIONAL 
Swa~gart to seek counseling 
• BA N ROUGE, La. -Jimmy Swaggart, stopped last week in the company of a woman who says she's a prostitute, is stepping down from the pulpit to get counseling, the evangelist's son says. After "a time of healing and counseling ... Dad will once again assume 

OF INTEREST 
•A 
dinner rap session will be sponsored by CILA from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. today in the South Dining Hall. Fa­ther Thomas O'Meara will be speaking. All are welcome to bring trays and attend. 

•ND/SMC 
Right to Life will hold a meeting tonight at 


7:30 pm in the Montgomery Theater, on the first floor of LaFortune. The topic is a short talk on sidewalk coun­seling. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/October 16 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
A 
130.11 Million 216.05 '1J"" 1.15 S&P COMPOSITE 
A
392.80 1I 1.79 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,061.72 .. 20.35 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-1J $ 0.40 to $360.50/oz. 

SILVER-'fr 4.5¢to$4.127oz. 
the pulpit at Family Worship Center," Donnie Swaggart said. The younger Swaggart said he will take charge of Jimmy Swaggart Ministries in the interim. Swaggart, 56, was stopped by Indio, Calif., police on Friday and ticketed for traffic offenses. The woman with him said afterward that she is a prostitute and that Swaggart had asked her for sex. 
Child abuse in Right-to-die case 
• ATLANTA -A comatose girl is at the center of a court battle between doctors who say keeping her alive constitutes child abuse and a religious father who hopes for a miracle. Hospital doctors testified that keeping alive the girl amounts to child abuse so wrenching that her nurses are having nightmares. Dr. Edward Goldstein says, "It's reached the point I find it ethically and morally unconscionable. It's to the point the patient is being abused through medical technol­ogy." The father, convinced a miracle will regenerate her damaged brain, refuses to allow the child to die. 
Dru~s help high blood pressure 
• 
C ICAGO -New research indicates aerobic exercise alone cannot replace drug treatment in reduc­ing mild high blood pressure in normal-weight adults. The new findings came from a study of 99 men and women ages 29 to 59 who had unhealthily high blood pressure. One-third of the subjects underwent an aer­obic exercise program, another third a strength and flexibility training program and a final third comprised controls receiving no treatment. "After four months of exercise training, subjects in the aerobic exercise group did not exhibit greater reductions in blood pressure than subjects in the control group," the researchers reported. 

•south 
Bend citizens are invited to meet their city candidates today from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. on the 14th floor of the Society Bank on Jefferson Blvd. 

•Applications 
for the Junior Parents' Weekend Sophomore Committee Chairperson are now available in the Student Activities Office in LaFortune. The deadline to apply is 3 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 18th. Call Katy at 283­2537 for more information. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1931: Sixty years ago, mobster AI Capone was convicted of income tax evasion and sentenced to 11 years in prison. (He was released in 1939.) 

•In 
1957: French author Albert Camus was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature. 

•In 
1986: The U.S. Senate approved and sent on to President Reagan an immigration bill prohibiting the hiring of illegal aliens and offering amnesty to millions of illegal aliens who had entered the United States prior to 1982. 

• 
In 1989: An earthquake measuring 7.1 on the Richter scale struck Northern California, killing 67 people. 


The Observer page 3 
Thursday, October 17,1991 






Grace Hall raises money for a neighborhood center 
By BILL ALBERTINI News Writer 
In a 24-hour period last wtwkend. residents of Grace Hall solicited over $1,:300 to benefit the Northeast Neigh­

borhood Center. While students took donations  according to Rich Goode, Grace's assistant rector. Dona­ "The enthusiasm was unbe­lievable," said Nass. "It was in­ participation from the whole dorm," Goode addnd.  
from people passing by Fieldhouse Mall. other residents  tions came from generous stu­dents, alumni, and even mem­ credible the way we came to­gether."  The amount raised compared fairly well to the average from  



of Grace took part in a 24-hour bers of the University of Pitts­Grace's Social Concerns run, divided into 15 minute burgh Golden Girls, said Karl Commission and dorm residents shifts. Nass, social concerns commis­volunteered for the annual The event raised $1,381.08, sioner. event. There was "massive 
Accounting Majors 

e ''Big SOC~ Nol~nger
theonl way· to ce · cation 
As a rnemlwr of Aetna's lntemal Audit department you can qualify for CPA li<·ensing in Connecticut. 
At'lna's lntemal Audit depmtment offers impressive career oppmtunities, an PXC'ept iomrl prof~ssional devf>lopment program, inten1ational and domestic travel, dirPd involvement with lop management, and special ('onsulting and fraud investigation assignments. A position in lntenml Audit can lead to key positions at Aetna within :1-.S years. 
At'Lna was recently named by Fortune magazirw and The Wall Street ]ounwl as ortt• of Anwriea's most admired companies. Our outstanding compensa­tion, l)(·rwf"1ts and training programs were major reasons why. 

\Vt> an· looking l<n· individuals with proven analytical ability, effective com­rnunical ion ski lis, initiative, flexibility and cn~ativity to join our large staff of audit pmft'ssio1mls at our corporate he·adqu~.utt'rs in Hmtf(ml, Connecticut. We'd like lo meet you and learn more about yo!lrexpectations. Look f(xour inf(mnation sessions on the following dates: 
~ Information Session 

Thursday, Oetolwr l 7 
7:00p.m.~ 

Dooley Room La Fortune Student Center 

Check with your Placement Office for further details. 


Aetna is an Equal Opportunity. Aff1rmat1ve •\ction Employer 
other years, which is around $1,000, according to Goode. Last year over $2,000 was raised during the Miami foot­ball game weekend. 
Grace has donated money to the center for many years. The donations help pay the rent and other expenses of the center, Nass said. 
The center provides many services to the citizens of the low-income area, such as basic food commodities, as well as to shut-ins and senior citizens. a neighborhood watch program, 
' trash cleanup and help for families in low-income housing, according to Goode. 
SAB plans for Fall Fest are certain 
By JEANNE DE VITA 
News Writer 
• Saint Mary's Student Activi­ties Board (SAB) confirmed the events planned for Fall Fest at a meeting last night. 
From Oct. 28 through Nov. 2, SAB will sponsor various activi­ties on campus as a part of the annual Fall Fest. Plans for the week include movies and pumpkin carving. A storyteller has also been confirmed to perform at Club Tuesday. 
The International Party on Wednesday night will be one of the major events for SAB to publicize, according to Meg McGowan, Vice-President of Student Affairs. Booths repre­senting France, Ireland, Eng­land, Italy. and several other nations will provide students with snacks, desserts, and drinks from the respective cul­tures at the party. African jew­elry and hair braiding will also be available to students. Orien­tal fan dancing and Irish danc­ing will be provided by Saint Mary's students. 
The first meeting for students interested in working on the SMC float for the Homecoming Parade was held last week, with progress forthcoming. 
McGowan proposed fundraising ideas for the spring all-campus dance. SAB plans to launch a major fundraising campaign; however, according to McGowan, the Board will not begin fundraising until later in the school year. The Board also proposed various publicity committees and suggested establishing and using an SAB logo to promote the dance. 
Help bringthe world togethe1: Host an exchangestudent. 
e. 
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE 
Pueblo, Colorado 81009 
r!JThe International Youth Exchange. 
The Observer 

page 4 Thursday, October 17, 1991 
Does it pay for women to speak up? Hill case exposes risks in alleging sexual harrassment 
(AP)-Does it pay to speak up? 
Anita Hill says yes, but she is 
back in Oklahoma with her 
credibility in question. And 
Clarence Thomas, the man she 
accused of sexual harassment, 
has been confirmed to the 
Supreme Court. 
In that outcome, beyond pub­
lic education and high-minded 
debate, lies a troublesome real­
ity that for years has kept vic­
tims of sexual harassment from 
coming forward. 
"Anita Hill came forward and she was shot down," said Sharon Ambrose, a youth advo­cate at the Cleveland Mediation ·center. "It's very frightening because you can't help but wonder: 'What would happen to 
?"'
me. 
The risks have always been 
daunting, which is why so few 
victims file sexual harassment 
complaints. But Hill's was per­
haps the ultimate nightmare 
scenario. It was her word 
against his, and everyone was 
listening as she was accused 
publicly. 
A majority of Americans ­
men and women alike -rallied 
around Thomas and apparently 
were skeptical about Hill's 
credibility, according to several 
recent nationwide polls. .. 
"There's a lot of backlash," 
said Anne Ladky, executive di­
rector of Women Employed in 
Chicago. "And I doubt that's 
going to encourage women to 
come forward. There are poll­cies, but how many believe they're sincerely enforced?" 
Many employees doubtless looked into the male faces of the Senate Judiciary Committee to see the gap in perception and experience broken wide open. Pressing charges of sexual ha­rassment is at best a gamble. 
Hill's motives were assessed repeatedly in the hParing room and in headlines. Her testimony was followed by speculation that alternately labeled her a scorned woman, vengeful ex­employee, sociopath. 
"That panel did a very good job of hauling out every kind of attack that women fear," Ladky said. "It would make anyone think twice." 
And yet, for however unsuc­cessful she was, hotlines and equal employment offices around the nation have received hundreds of calls since Hill came forward. 
Employees are considering whether they've experienced sexual harassment and, i( so, how to file a complaint. Em­ployers are interested in im­proving grievance procedures and providing sensitivity work­shops to prevent such situa­tions. 
''There is so much to explore here," said Lynn Hecht Schafran, an attorney with the NOW Legal Defense and Educa­tion Fund in New York. "Women need to look at their own employment situations and 

Police department releases audiotapes of woman's allegations against Smith 
PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP} ­Police on Wednesday released audiotapes of the sworn state­ments by the woman who ac­cuses William Kennedy Smith of raping her. 
Often emotionally, sometimes obviously in tears, the 30-year­old Florida woman describes meeting Smith at a Palm Beach nightspot, going to the Kennedy estate with him, then, she claims, being tackled and raped on the estate grounds in the early morning hours of March 30. 
After the alleged attack, she said she ran inside and asked Smith, who was sitting in a chair, why he had done it. 
"I was asking him, 'Why did you rape me?' and he was say­ing that he hadn't raped me," the woman said. · 
"I said I had called my friends and they were coming to get me and that I was going to call the police and that's when he said that no one would believe me," she said. 
Transcripts of her statements, in interviews with Detective Christine Rigolo, State Attorney David Bludworth and other investigators, were made public in May, but her voice hadn't been heard publicly before. 
Smith attorney Roy Black, who was at the police depart­ment to question the woman in a pretrial deposition, said making the woman's voice pub­lic was another example of state-generated publicity in the case. 
"Once again. the state wants to try this in the press," Black said. "We're objecting to this. We're going to try this case in the courtroom." 
Smith has denied wrongdo­ing. His attorneys say the woman's troubled background md emotional instability may lave led her to fabricate her 
\CCusations. 

L-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~---. 
The recordings were made in late March and April. The eight one-hour cassette tapes were released after The Associated Press argued last week that they should be made public un­der Florida public records laws. 
Palm Beach police charged $250 for the tapes, citing per­sonnel costs involved in erasing the woman's name from the tapes to protect her identity. 
In West Palm Beach, mean­while, attorneys argued Wednesday that charges against a supermarket tabloid for identifying the woman are unconstitutional and politically motivated. 
In final arguments, lawyers for The Globe said Bludworth realize that disclosure is risky, and the risks are compounded by delay." 
The panel, and public, were perhaps most troubled by Hill's 10-year delay in reporting her allegations. Though psycholo­gists have documented the rea­sons for such a deferment, people remained puzzled: "Why did she continue playing the game?" 
"I spoke up immediately and it didn't help me at all," said Lynn Martin, who followed the recommended procedures after her supervisor at the Small Business Administration in At­lanta allegedly harassed her. 
She confronted him infor­mally, then formally with a grievance, and ultimately in the courts, where a judge ruled against her last winter. "It was a question of credibility," she said flatly. 
In ruling against her, a fed­eral judge found no credible ev­idence in the Martin's com­plaint. 
"I hope my experience ­Anita Hill's experience -won't stop women from coming for­ward. But really, I'm afraid it will. People can see the system does not work," Martin said. 
"The message is: You come forward, you get subjected to this. I think it's been a setback." 
A setback, perhaps, but at the same time a pervasive work­place problem has been brought to center stage. 


singled out the tabloid for prosecution under a 1911 Florida law and the statute was 


A different Picasso 
badly flawed. 
Jack Long has mastered the art of lining the fields at Stepan as he demonstrated Wednesday afternoon.
County Judge Robert Parker said he will rule late next week on whether to dismiss charges against the Boca Raton-based tabloid without a trial. 
"This is a case of selective 
St. Edward's Hall Playersprosecution where Mr. Blud­worth's aim is a personal aim," Globe attorney John Tierney 


Sign-ups for Auditions 
said. When Bludworth charged The Globe in May, he said he wasn't 


Friday, Oct. 11th-18th
ruling out charging other news media that identified the woman, including NBC News 
and The New York Times. 


©~~£ • ~~ I11JJJU!. ~ t;J ~ cdcJt ¥ wiJI, ~~@'IT • 
The BIG 21! ove, Missy, Becky, Jen, Kathy and Mar Pat 
Flower Delivery 7 Days 
~0 'SY o Pptth 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets Be Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 121 9~ 277·1291
51400 31 North \; J South Ben IN 46637 ,.._Aaw•ed Z4 bra. 

~------------------------~----------­
The Observer 

Thursday, October 17, 1991 page 5 



Texan murders 22, then kills himself 
KII.I.EEN. TPxas !API-A man smashed a truck through a rnstaurant window Wednesday and sprayed snmiautomatic gunfire at people in line for lunch. killing 22 before commit­ting suiddn, authorities said. It was the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history. 
"The guy jumped out of the truek and said. 'This is what BPII County has done to me!"' said Sheldon Smith, a porter at tlw l.uby's Cafntnria. "As he opPmld fire, tlw guy that he ran over with tlw truek was trying to gnt up and hH shot him. 
"Tiwn hn pointHd toward the linn where the service was and he started shooting down the line." 
Twenty-three people were d11ad. including the gunman, Hell County Peace .Justice Hobert Stubblefield said. At least 20 pnople were wounded, hospitals rnport11d. 
Killeen Police Chief F.L. Gia­eomozzi said he had no idea of the motive for the shooting, and there was no immediate nxplanation of the gunman's COIJIIIIents. 
The gunman "entered the businnss at 12:41 and begin firing rounds from a snmiau­tomatic Wllapon," said police Capt. Hoy Stover. "Shots were l'in1d for approximatnly l 0 minutlls. At 12:51 wn were noti­fipd thP gunman was dead at tlw rPstaurant. lie apparPntly shot hims1llf in thn head." 
AuthoritiPs havpn't rl'leased his idnnlitv. Sam Wink, a KiiiPPn rPsid(mt who was in thf' rPstaurant. dt>scribnd the man as 20 to :~o ymtrs old. about 160 pounds and about 5-foot-1 0. 
Tlw gunman wit>lclPd a Glock 'Jmm sPnliautomalic pistol. au­thorities said. Tlw Austrian­madP gun usually earriPs a 17­round magaziJH'. Tlw gunman rPioadPd his weapon and kPpt shooting, wil1wssns said. 
c;iaromozzi said the gunman had at IPast onP pistol but he didn't know tlw caliiHlr. Glocks are commonly used by police departments. 
Survivors sat shaking and comforting each other outside the restaurant, which is about 1 l/2 n1iles from Fort Hood, a U.S. Army post. 
Luby's is on an interstate that cuts through Killeen. The cafe­teria is a common meeting place for working people, se­nior citizens and families. 
The death toll surpassed the July 18. 1984, slayings in San Ysidro, Calif., when James Oliver Huberty opened fire at a McDonald's restaurant, killing 21 before he was fatally shot. 
Robert Holland, 26, a clerk at an auto parts store next to the Luby's, said he heard the truck crash through the restaurant window and then "people were running everywhere." 
Wink told CNN he was at lunch with his boss for "bosses' 
day." 
Once the shooting started, the gunman "was firing at anything he could shoot," Wink said, adding that the man had "tons" of ammunition. 
"He looked at me and pointed the pistol," Wink said. "I thought I bought the farm." But the gunman turned instead and fired at a woman trying to run, he said. 
The police chief said he didn't know how much ammunition the man had, but that he "wasn't out of bullets when the oflicers got there." 
Wink escaped through a win­dow at thP back of the restau­rant. he said. Giaeomozzi said someone had broken the win­dow. allowing sevPral people to nseape. 
The wounded were taken to thrne hospitals. 
Snven pnople were in stable condition at Metroplex llospital in Killeen. said spokeswoman Glenda Duncan. Twelve people were taken to Darnall Army Community Hospital at Fort Hood in undetermined condi­tion, said .Jeri Chappelle, a 
spokeswoman. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ROB! 

~-.d"A 
*~ 
.· 
." 



HAPPY 19th FROM EL CUBANO Y DOS AMERICANOS P.S. DON'T TOUCH THE BANANA 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 


Business Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 17, to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 


The Observer/Dave Hungeling 
A sign of the times 
University workers turn some of autumn's beautiful leaves into mulch. Yesterday they cleared this path between Alumni and Dillon. 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,588,043 in grants during September for the sup­port of research and, various programs. Research funds totaled $1,384,206, including: 
•$360,000 
from the Solar Energy Hesearch Institute for research on ordered semiconductors by .Jacek Furdyna. Marquez professor of physics, and Malgorzata Dobrowolska-Furdyna, assistant professor of physics. 

•$198,004 
from the National Institutes of Health for nuclear magnetic resonance studies of metals in Kinases and related enzymes by Thomas Nowak, professor of chemistry. 

··$150,000 from the Envi­ronmental Protection Agency for a research model for toxic chemicals in Green Bay by Victor Bierman Jr., adjunct associate professor of civil engineering. 

•$144,444 
from the National Institutns of Health for research 


by Paul Helquist, chairman and professor of chemistry, on synthesis and activity of streptogramins A and ana­logues. 
•$118,684 
from the U.S. Air Force for research on the biodegradation of jet fuel by .John Bumpus, associate faculty fellow in chemistry, biochemistry and biological sciences, and Robert Irvine, professor of civil engineering and director of the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution ControL 

•$89,120 
from the National Institutes of Health for research by Sunny Boyd, assistant professor of biological sciences, on sexual morphism in neu­ropeptide systems. 

•$88,621 
from the National Science Foundation for a graduate research fellowship program, administnred by Peter Diffley, assistant dean in the Graduate School and assistant professor of biological sciences. 

•$50,000 
from Union Carbide 


for research by Arvind Varma, Schmitt 
professor of chemical engineering, on optimal catalyst activity distribution in pellets, 
•$35,100 from the National Science Foundation for research on the 
quantitative analysis of complex systems by Anthony Michel. McCloskey dean of the College of Engineering and Freimann professor of engimwring. 
•$35,000 
from Occidental Chemical Corporation for research by Hobert Nine. professor of civil engineering and director of the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, on the immobilized enzyme treatment of xenobiotic organic compounds. 

•$1 
(,,400 from International Business Machines for magneto-optical studies of diluted magnetic semiconductor by Malgorzata Dobrowlowska­Furdyna, assistant professor of physics. 


A survey says best and brightest students tend to be unmotivated 
WASHINGTON (AP) -High­achieving high school students work very little for their grades and basically are not encour­aged by teachers and parents to expend much effort on school work, a study said Wednesday. 
The annual survey of Amer­ica's best and brightest, con­ducted by "Who's Who Among American High School Stu­dents," found that 56 percent of the students study one hour or less a day, and only 21 percent study 11 hours or more per week. 
1 
Attesting to this fact was Kara Swenson, a senior at Lake, Braddock High School, Spring­' field, Va., who is listed in this year's "Who's Who." She said she seldom receives homework and studies only when she ex­pects to be tested the next day. Fewer than one in three said higher academic standards, stricter discipline or a longer school year would improve the quality of education at their school "a great deal." "What is wrong with our ed­ucation system that our best and brightest students are so unmotivated?" asked Paul Krouse, publisher of "Who's Who." 
Krouse said the poll showed the students have "a wide gap between reality and percep­tion." 
Despite the students' appar­ent lack of motivation to work, Krouse noted 81 percent of the teens expect to do better than their parents financially, in their careers and their styles of living. Seventy-one percent ex­pect to earn from $30,000 to more than $75,000 within 10 years after completing their education, the survey found. 
Krouse said there are many reasons for this. 
"Students are not being chal­lenged and motivated enough," he said. "I think these bright students are telling us that this curriculum is way too soft. I think the expectations from schools, teachers, curriculum directors, etc. are way too low. 
"And there's probably insuf­ficient involvement of their par­ents, in terms of expectations of their children, as well as their schools. I think everybody needs to raise their expecta­tions and standards for these students to perform better," Krouse added. 
On other matters, the poll showed: 
•68 
percent said teachers really know their subject mat­ter, but only 36 percent said most of their teachers know how to teach. 

•26 
percent said they have engaged in sexual intercourse 

• 
nearly half of those befon1 age 16. 

•84 
percent said they are more concerned about AIDS now than a year ago, but only 62 percent of those who are sexually aetive said they rely on condoms regularly. 

•23 
percent of the young women said they or a close friend have had an abortion. 

•66 
percent said they knew a young person who had tried to commit or had committed sui­cide; 27 percent have consid­ered it; 4 percent have tried. 


Some 5,000 students were chosen to participate in the survey from among the 700,000 students featurPd in the 1991 edition of "Who's Who." Na­tionally, 1,879 students com­pleted and returned the ques­tionnaire. 
Three-fourths of those receiv­ing surveys maintain "A" aver­ages, the rest "B" averages. One in five plan on medical careers; 10 percent, engineering. 
page 6 


The Observer/Dave Hungeting
A different perspective 
Freshman Matt Orsagh tries to break the monotony of studying by hanging from his loft. 

~---------~-~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1991 
Government accuses liquid diet firms of false advertising 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The government on Wednesday ac­cused three companies of de­ceiving consumers about the safety and long-term success of liquid diets, which burgeoned into a $200 million industry after Oprah Winfrey used one three years ago to shed 6 7 pounds. 
The Federal Trade Commis­sion said Optifast, Medifast and Ultrafast misled consumers with false and unsubstantiated advertising claims. The prod­ucts are available only under medically supervised programs. 
Under an agreement with the FTC, they must "replace unsub­stantiated hype with docu­mented facts," said Barry Cut­ler, director of the agency's Bu­reau of Consumer Protection. 
The companies said they will­ingly signed on to the agree­ment. 
"We firmly believe that the things they have asked us to do are in the best interest of the patient and in the best interest of the industry in general," said spokesman Jim Bruno of Jason Pharmaceuticals, which mar­kets Medifast. 
The FTC filed its complaint against Minneapolis-based Sandoz Nutrition Corp., which sells Optifast program; Jason of Owings Mills, Md., and its Nutrition Institute of Maryland, which markets the Medifast program; and the National Cen­ter for Nutrition of Newington, Va., which markets Ultrafast. 
Ultrafast is not associated with Ultra Slimfast, a different, over-the-counter diet product. 
Comparatively few Americans had tried liquid diets before Winfrey, the before-and-since pudgy talk show host, appeared on the set of her Chicago-based show in November 1988 in size 10 jeans. She had used the Optifast program to slim down from 190 pounds to 123 pounds. But Winfrey regained most of the weight and vowed to never diet again. 

Wildfires destroy at least 20 homes 
Pope warns Brazil to preserve their land 
CUIABA, Brazil (AP) -Ama­zon Indians met with Pope John Paul II on Wednesday and told him of the murderous onslaught on their land and lives that has brought them close to extinction. 
Earlier in the day, John Paul warned Brazil to take better care of its land, equating preservation of the environ­ment with the right to life. 
A delegation of 160 Indians brought an open letter criticiz­ing government delays in marking off reservations and denouncing 141 murders of In­dians since the pope first visited Brazil in 1980. 
One of the Brazilian chiefs who addressed the pope in 1980, Marcal de Sousa Tupai, a Guarani tribesman, was gunned down by three hired killers two years later. His daughter, Edna Silva, 42, carried a letter to John Paul from 32 indigenous nations. 
"Nothing has changed," she said. "The Indian people are still being decimated, not by colonialism but by multina­tional projects, by mining, hunger and poverty." 
The Roman Catholic church has blamed the government for bringing Brazilian Indians to the verge of extinction -from 5 million in the 16th century to 220,000 today. 

The pope told the delegation: "I have heard with great pain the news about violations of your rights, motivated by greed and private interests .... 
"I ask God to illuminate those responsible (in the government) to find wise and responsible solutions for these shameful si­tuations," he said. 
Many in the delegation wore T-shirts with the names of murdered tribesmen and the date of their death. They held a large banner that read: "Punishment for the Murder­ers." 
Before meeting the Indians at the halfway point of his 10-day trip to Brazil, the pope held Mass for 150,000 people in the capital of Mato Grosso state, which borders the world's largest wetland -the Pantanal. It's an area of immense rain forests ravaged by frres set by gold prospectors or land­hungry ranchers. 
Brazil has tried to improve its image as it prepares to host the 1992 U.N. Conference on Envi­ronment and Development. While it has taken some mea­sures to slow indiscriminate burnings and land invasion, it has also lashed back at inter­national groups seeking to pre­serve the world's largest rain forest. 
Until recently, the government 
Strap ~um on Clarki You·rcz finally Zl!l c·mon 

SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) ­Fires ignited by power lines downed by high wind forced evacuations and destroyed at least 20 homes Wednesday in Spokane suburbs and northern Idaho. 
Dry conditions and strong, gusty wind also set off forest and grass fires that burned thousands of acres in Oregon and Montana. 
Residents of several suburbs around Spokane were evacu­
has resisted "debt for nature" proposals that would forgive part of its $120 billion foreign debt -the largest in the developing world -in ex­change for keeping tracts of the Amazon untouched. 
"For Brazil, environmental protection is frrst and foremost the right (to) and protection of life," the pope said in a speech before an esplanade carved out of a gold-prospecting area. 
Perspiring profusely in 108­degree heat, John Paul said: "The pope has not come as the pioneers of yore or as today's prospectors looking for gold. He has come to bless and spread the good word to the people who came or were born in such large numbers on this land." 
The Pantanal swamplands have until recently been un­spoiled, with about 650 species of birds, 230 types of fish and an array of rare mammals and reptiles. The region's delicate ecology was long protected by its remoteness but it is today endangered by exploitation, de­velopment and greed. 
On Wednesday, John Paul cel­ebrated the 13th anniversary of his ascension to the papal seat. · 

* 

ated as frrefighters tried to save 
other homes from the rapidly 
advancing flames. 
No injuries were reported. 

Fires destroyed at least 16 
homes in suburbs south of 
Spokane. At least two homes in 
rural areas north of Spokane 
also burned, officials said. 

TWo homes were destroyed by 
fire near Hauser Lake, in 
northern Idaho, the Kootenai 
County sheriff's department 
said. Emergency shelters were 
set up at Post Falls, Idaho. 
County officials urged residents 
around Hauser Lake to evacu­
ate their homes. 

High wind and blowing dust 
grounded aerial tankers and helicopters that might have helped by dropping chemical retardants and water on the more than 40 blazes in eastern -Washington. Firefighters were often unable to pump water be­cause of scattered power 
outages. 

Thousands of homes in east­
ern Washington remained 
without power. 
and growing in size. It's going to continue until the wind dies down," said Department of Natural Resources spokesman Ron King. 
An hour-long burst of rain Wednesday over Seattle broke a 45-day dry spell, but meteorol­ogist Dana Felton said much more was needed to end the dry conditions. 
"It might be temporary help, but it's not going to solve the problem," he said. 
The National Weather Service said the wind was blowing steadily up to 40 mph and gusting to 60 mph. 
Spokane International Airport was closed twice because of blowing dust and fires that burned on and near the airport property. 
Several highways also were closed because of blowing dust, the state highway patrol re­ported. Reduced visibility caused several traffic accidents in eastern Washington, result­ing in several injuries, said Grant County Under sheriff Max 


HEY GUYS FROM 22, I KNOW YOU ARE ALL JEALOUS THAT I AM 25, BUT THAT IS NOT THE ANSWER. THANKS FOR A MOST MEMORABLE BIRTHDAY. 
ELCUBANO 

255-6344 
Edison Rd. just East of Grape. in St.Andrews Plaza 
Authentic Philly Cheesesteaks & Hoagies! 

* 
Dorm party? -Order 

* 
No Sunday dorm food? breakfast, lunch or 


*Delivery from 11:00 5:00 
hoagies by the foot! 
Join  us  for  a  great  
dinner!  
AM  to  2:00PM  &  
PM  to  8:00  PM  

BRING THIS AD TO STORE FOR $1.00 DISCOUNT ON ANY CHEESESTEAK, HOAGIE. OR EQUAL SANDWICH! ! ! 
FOR DESSERT: REAL N.Y. CHEESECAKE W/TOPPIN-~',
uo:~ •.. 


Thursday, October 17, 1991 The Observer page 7 
The House supports restrictions on NEA 
WASIIINC;TON (AP) -The Ilouse voted Wednesday in fa­vor of imposing speeific prohi­bitions against subsidizing "patently offensive" sexual ex­hibits and performances. 
On a 2S6-135 vote, the House expressed its support for a Se­nate-passed provision imposing tlw restrictions on the National Endowmnnt for th11 Arts. 
I louse and Senate negotiators an1 working out a compromise bill for NEA funding, and must dPdd11 whether to include the restrictions first proposed by Sen . .Jesse Ilelms. H-N.C. 
Last month. IIPlms won a 68­28 votn in the SPnatn to add the provision to a bill providing the NI~A with $178.2 million in fed­Pral funds for tlw 1992 fiscal yPar that bngan Oct. I. 
Tlw nndownwnt's chairman, .John l:rohnmaynr. said Wndrwsday hn had "grave doubts about the constitution­ality'' of tlw proposed restric­tions. llownvPr. hn said he would n1serve judgmnnt "until tlw linal lngislation has passed and wn havn had time to study it." 
NJ.:A supportPrs succeeded last ynar in g~•tting similar Sen­aiP-passnd language thrown out ot tlw hill when rwgotiators craftnd a cornpromisP bntwenn HousP and Senatn vnrsions. Thosn samn negotiators, mem­lwrs of tlw intPI'ior subcommit­tens of Lhn llousP and Senate A p propriatio ns com rni t tl~ns. wnn• rnneting again in a room orw floor lwlow in tlw Capitol during WPd rwsd ay's dn bate OVPr the lllPaSUI'I'. 
BPcausP tlw motion was non­binding. thP rPstrirtions on arts funding can again bn rejeetnd by LhP nPgoliators. most of whom arP strong dPfPrHIPrs of Llw PtHlownwnt. 
CLASS SIZE IS LIMITED. PLEASE RESERVE YOUR 
PLACE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
272•4135 
But favorable votes by better than 2-1 margins in both the House and Senate make it more difficult politically for the nego­tiators to discard Helms' lan­guage. 
Congress earlier tightened re­strictions on the endowment's grant awards after an outcry two years ago over federal funds going to exhibits depict­ing homoerotic themes. How­ever, it left to the courts to de­cide what is obscene and de­termine what grant applicants would be disqualified. 
Helms' measure effectively defines obscenity, prohibiting the endowment from using tax dollars "to promote, dissemi­nate or produce materials that depict or describe, in a patently oll'ensive way, snxual or excre­tory activities or organs." 
It's chief House supporter, Hep. William Dannemeyer, R­Calif., said the language is needed because the agency is still awarding grants to theater groups whose performances depict homosexual acts. 
Hep. Handy Cunningham. R­Calif., refern1d to Oklahoma law Professor Anita Hill's alle­gations last week that her former boss, confirmed Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas, had sexually harassed her by describing pornographic films in her pres­ence. 
"Our government is sponsor­ing and paying for pornography that is 10 timns worse than whatever was said by Miss Hill." Cunningham said. "This Ilousn owns it to the American people to take out the bad things in the NEA that exist." 
Defenders of the endowment said lPss than onP-half of 1 pnrcenl of its grant money goes to such I'Xhibits. 
WHAT IF YOU DON'T GO INTO THE SCHOOL OF YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure. there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first· choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher! 

Nobel prizes awarded to foreign scientists 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) -Nobel prizes were awarded Wednesday to a Swiss chemist who improved the tool that measures molecules and a French physicist who discov­ered patterns in molecular be­havior. 
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said Richard Ernst won the chemistry prize for speeding development of new medicines and facilitating. chemical research through his improvements in nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. 
"With classical methods it could take years to determine molecular structures .... Now it can take hours or days," said Salo Gronowitz, chairman of the awards committee. 
Frenchman Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, who has been called the "Isaac Newton of our time," won the physics prize for finding general rules for the behavior of molecules where scientists thought there was only disorder. 
lie has mathematically de­scribed molecular changes in magnets, superconductors, polymer solutions and liquid crystals. 
The laureates are to receive their $1 million prizes at a Dec. 10 ceremony. 
"I find that the crowning moment of our life is not in compensation. Most of all, it's in children," said de Gennes, a father of seven. 
"All of my research, however fundamental, is always motivated by practicality," he said. He is working on a "super glue" he hopes will be so strong it could be used to replace rivets on planes. 
De Gennes' discovery that there is order in the way molecules behave in materials such as liquid crystals could help in making new products such as nat television screens. 
De Gennes, 58, of the College de France in Paris, is the eighth Frenchman to win 
Can't wait until tomorrow 
:.: 

::·:· 
Love, 
the physics prize. 
Americans have dominated Nobel science prizes since World War II, but won neither the physics nor the chemistry prize this year for the first time since 1971. 
Ernst, 58, of the Swiss Fed­eral Polytechnic Institute in Zurich, was flying to New York to collect a prize from Columbia University when the academy tried to notify him 
he  had  become  a  Nobel  
laureate.  
His  colleagues  finally  

rea.r.hed him by telephone on the plane. 
"Of course I was surprised," Emst, an amateur cellist, told Swiss Radio by shortwave fr or:t the cockpit. "It really is special, something I have never experienced and will never experience again." 
The academ}' said Ernst's achievement lay in radically improving the resolution and precision of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, a technology that was discovered in the 1940s and resulted in a Nobel Prize 
in physics to U.S. researchers in 1952. 
The method is based on the fact that some atomic nuclei act like minuscule compass needles when placed in a magnetic field. The introduction of radio waves and changes in the chemical environment affect the behavior of the nuclei in ways that can be measured. 
A major breakthrough oc­currnd in 1966 when Ernst and American Weston Anderson found that the accuracy of the measurements could be in­creased up to 1 00-fold if the matter was exposed to intense. rapid radio pulses. instead of slow sweeps. 
The measurements provide information about how molecules are structured. and how they interact, in chemicals such as proteins and nucleic adds. 
Radar gun gets banned by police 
MERIDEN, Conn. (AP) -The 
Connecticut State Police has 
banned the use of hand-held 
radar guns because of concerns 
troopers could develop cancer 
from long-term exposure to the 
radiation waves emitted by the 
devices. 
The move, believed to be the 
first of its kind by a state police 
agency, comes two months 
after three municipal police of­
ficers filed workers' compensa­
tion claims saying they devel­
oped cancer from using hand­
held radar guns. 
The ban was ordered 
Tuesday as a precaution while 
studies are conducted into the 
possible links between cancer 
and use of the devices, said 
Adam Berluti, a state police 
spokesman. 
"The feeling hern is to err on the side of caution until more is known about the issun," Bnrluti said. "The whole situation is still under review. A lot of feed­back says they are no more dangerous than a microwave." 
Berluti said the ban, which 
withdraws 70 radar guns from 
service, will not affect speed 
enforcement. State troopers 
will continue to usn units with 
transmitters mounted on the 
outside of cruisers, Berluti said. 
The department has 210 out­
side-mounted units, which am 
more than sufficient to main­
tain speed enforcement at cur­
mnt levels, Berluti said. 
The state police ban was 
ordered after two officers in 
Windsor Locks and one in Shel­
ton filed workers' compensa­
tion claims in August saying 
they developed cancer in their 
daily exposure to radiation 
from hand-held radar guns. 
Officers in Ohio, Florida and 
California have filed similar 
claims, but the Connecticut ban 
is believed to be the first by a 
state agency. 
.Just hours after the state po­
lice announcement, police 
chiefs in the Connecticut 
communities of Bristol and 
Winsted banned the use of 
dashboard-mounted radar 
guns. A ban on hand-held units 
already is in effect in the 
Windsor Locks and Hocky llill 
police departments in the state. 
Michael Grey, an assistant 
professor in the occupational 
medicine program at thn Uni­
versity of Connecticut llnalth 
Center, agreed with the 
decision by thn state police. 
"The prudent coursn in a state of uncertainty is to elimi­nate a hazard if it can be elimi­nated and I think that is what they have done," he said. 
But Grey said there has been 
no conclusive proof yet linking 
cancer with hand-held radar 
guns, even though there has 
been some indication that it is 
possible. 
Kustom Signals Inc. of 
Kansas, the nation's leading 
manufacturer of radar guns, 
has repeatedly denied that the 
guns pose a health risk, citing 
numerous tests showing emis­
sions from the guns are well 
within government safety 
levels. 
Connecticut's two largest po­lice unions have lobbied sim~P April for police dnpartrn11nts to ban the use of hand-held radar guns, which are believnd to bn more dangerous than other models because the transmitter ·is only inches from the ollieer's 
body. 
pages The Observer 

The Observermm Farish 
Internal Combustion 

This car caught on fire yesterday in front of the Law School where firefighters quickly doused the flames. 
Nuclear waste truck continues despite resistance by Indians 
FORT HALL, Idaho (AP) ­American Indian tribes turned back a truckload of high-level .nuclear waste Wednesday, but hours later a judge ordered the shipment to continue on its way to a federal research installa­
tion. 
The tribes said they were en­

forcing what they consider 
treaty rights giving them juris­
diction over shipments across 
reservation land. 
The truck carrying the nu­

clear waste from Colorado to 
the Idaho National Engineering 
Laboratory returned to the 
Idaho state line after police 
from the Shoshone-Bannock 
Tribes turned the shipment 
back at the edge of the Fort 
Hall Indian Reservation. 
Officer Ira Waterhouse Jr. 
also gave the driver a ticket for violating a tribal resolution banning nuclear waste ship­ments until the Department of Energy reaches an agreement with the tribes on how the shipments will be handled. 
"They sort of made us mad and a little upset for ignoring us. They thought they could push us around," said Tribal Council member Marvin Os­borne. "We turned them around. We wanted to cite them and stop them, let them know we're dead serious." 
The 550,000-acre Indian reservation in eastern Idaho is about 80 miles southeast of the engineering laboratory, a fed­eral research installation. 
The shipment was the third this month from the decommis­sioned Fort St. Vrain nuclear power plant at Plattville, Colo., operated by Public Service Co. of Colorado. Shipments of the radioactive waste resumed Oct. 5, three years after Gov. Cecil Andrus declared he wouldn't allow his state to become a dumping ground and less than a month after the state lost its second court challenge. 

In a telephone court hearing, Public Service won a ruling from U.S. District Judge Ed­ward Lodge in Boise to allow the shipment to continue on its way to the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory. 
Court officials said Public Service agreed to voluntarily suspend nuclear waste ship­ments to Idaho until an Oct. 25 hearing before Lodge. 
Professor Craig receives Hulman award 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame professor of bi­ological sciences, George Craig, has been awarded the Tony and Mary Hulman Health Achieve­ment Award by the Indiana Public Health Foundation. 
Craig is an internationally known medical entomologist who has studied Aedes mosquitoes, which can carry yellow fever, dengue and other diseases. He is a former presi­dent of the American Mosquito Control Association, member of the National Academy of Sciences and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
Considered Indiana's premier environmental health award, according to Foundation Presi­dent Beurt SerVaas, the Hul­man award recognizes Indiana citizens and organizations whose efforts have consider­ably advanced the state of the environment. 
The award is named for Indi­ana natives Tony and Mary Hulman, who have supported the Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology. 
Craig joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1957. From the mid­1950s until 1975, he conducted genetics studies of the mosquito Aedes aegypti. His work demonstrated the genetic basis of traits, knowledge of which is vital to the understanding of disease transmission and insect control. 

He then shifted his research to the study of Aedes trise­riatus, a primary carrier of en­cephalitis in the Midwestern United States. 
In 1969, Craig was named di­rector of the World Health Or­ganization (WHO) International Reference Center for Aedes mosquitos, housed at Notre Dame. 

Thursday, October 17, 1991 

UN envoy attempt to influence kidnappers 
BAALBEK, Lebanon (AP) -A United Nations envoy has con­cluded marathon talks with representatives of Lebanese kidnappers in the effort to swap Western hostages for Arabs held by Israel, sources said Wednesday. 
The sources, security officials who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Giandomenico Picco stayed at the meeting place for about 20 hours before returning to Damascus on Wednesday to report back to 
U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar. 
It wasn't known if Picco would return to Lebanon for further talks on his present mission, which opened Sunday with his arrival in the Syrian capital. 
In New York, Perez de Cuellar said "things are moving," but he declined to elaborate on the progress of the negotiations, saying any comment "could spoil the chances of getting some good results." 
One of the security sources in the region characterized the talks as "tough and compli­cated," but would not elaborate on the substance of the session, which began Tuesday. 
The sources said Picco was driven Tuesday in a convoy of four Mercedes limousines with Syrian licence plates to Nabi Sheet, a village in Lebanon's Syrian-controlled Bekaa Valley 10 miles south of Baalbek. 
"They crossed into Lebanon through a special road used only by (Syrian) military per­sonnel who are exempt from routine identification checks at the border posts," one source said. 
The sources refused to iden­tify the men Picco met with in Nabi Sheet. 
It is the hometown of two se­nior officials of the pro-Iranian Hezbollah, which is believed to be the umbrella group for the kidnappers: Abbas Musawi, secretary-general of the group, and Hussein Musawi, his dis­tant cousin. 
Abbas Musawi now resides in Beirut, and Hussein Musawi in Baalbek, but neither man could be located at the time of the talks. 
Picco was accompanied by several plainclothes Syrian se­curity officers, who waited out­side as he entered the house in Nabi Sheet where the talks were held, the sources said. 
"Definitely more than one team (of kidnappers) was in­volved in the talks," another source said. 
Four groups have claimed the abduction of most of the nine missing Westerners -five Americans, two Germans, a Bri­ton and an Italian. Hezbollah is believed to be the umbrella group for fundamentalist Muslim kidnappers. 
The longest held hostage is American journalist Terry An­derson, who was kidnapped March 16, 1985. 
The Tehran Times, Iran's leading English-language newspaper, reported Sunday that an American hostage would be freed shortly. Its pre­dictions on previous releases have been accurate. 
Picco had returned to the re­gion this week after holding separate talks in New York with Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati and Uri Lubrani, the top Israeli involved in the hostage issue. 
The Lebanese kidnappers are seeking the release of about 300 Arabs held in Israeli jails or at the Khiam detention center in the Israeli-occupied enclave in south Lebanon. 
Israel has demanded firm word on the fate of six of its soldiers missing in Lebanon. 
Iran, eager to improve its re­lations with the West, has said it would use its influence with the kidnappers if Israel freed the Arab prisoners. 
U.N. intervention in the hostage ordeal was requested by the kidnappers in a letter they handed to Perez de Cuellar via British television journalist John McCarthy, who was freed from captivity Aug. 8. 
American-hostage Edward Tracy was freed three days later. 
On Sept. 12, Israel freed 51 Arabs and repatriated the bod­ies of nine Hezbollah guerrillas, saying it was in exchange for receiving proof that one of its missing servicemen, Rahamim Alsheikh, was dead. 
I$50,000.00* FOR COLLEGE I 
Students can now obtain about $50,000.00 within one years time towards college costs, and any other expenses. 
This money is available from bank, and department store credit card programs, and will not interfere with any student loans you might have, or are applying for. 
Let Phpenix Publishing show you alternate ways to finance your college education. 
rr~~~~~~~~~~~~====~===;~~~~(:;;~;~;;;:;<~~~,~~=;;;:==========:::::======,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,:::~ 
~ll OR YOUR MONEY BACK, AND $20.00 CASH! iiii! 
··=-.:::::;:;:;:~;:;:~:=~::::::;:~::::::::::::::::::~::::~::::~==~~:;:;:;~:;:;:;:;:;:;~:::;:;:;:;:;~~~=~~::;~:~:;::;:;:;:::::::§;:;~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;: 
Send $19.99 Plus $2.00 Shipping and Handling To: PHOENIX PUBLISIDNG CORP. 707 Foulk Rd., #102 Wilmington, DE 19803-3700 
'"'~=-ti:.l1~~=~$:::~ii::i~~~~':@':<"~:S:":.~:::;."~~~-:<:..<:;::W".;,.~$:i::S.<:::<~$=:~""'''''"'"''"~""''''''~:::::'::*$":""'"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''''''1 
IM~~ IIClly Allow3-;:.::dol<"'ry I
Zipl •Amount of funds may vary slightly for each individual @ 
'=w.:::r@.***S::::-;:::-::~:$:~~~:;:;:;:;~:~:::-:::;:;:;:;:;:;;::;:~;::::;:;;;;:;;:;~;;;~;:::f:~~:;:;;~;;:;~~:;~':::~?.::::~~~;;;;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;~~:;~:;:;:;:;*;:;:;:;:~;:~:;::~~~:;:;:;::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::f 
Business 
Thursday, October 17, 1991 page 9 
Fortune ranks Atlanta best city for business 
ATLANTA lAP) -Atlanta 1996 Olympics. ranks as the best city for busi­"These are the kinds of things ness in the nation, according to that maintain Atlanta's a Fortune magazine survey. momentum," Bartels said. "If 
The Georgia capital. whieh someone else says Atlanta's a was the No. 3 choice last year, good place, it's less salesman­beat out Dallas-Fort Worth for ship and morn factual data. the top slot in the annual sur­They add credibility to our vey of executives. Pittsburgh elaims." finished third. The city does havf' some 
Kansas City, Mo.; Nashville, flaws. Atlanta suffprs from a Tenn.; Salt Lake City; Charlotte. high crimP rate, poor public: N.C.; Orlando, Fla.; Austin, schools and an economic slow­Texas; and Phoenix followed down, the magazirw said. Pittsburgh. Fortune said Atlanta has an 
The city's mix of low costs, abundance of office space and high-quality labor and favor­inexpensive housing. The eity's able attitudes toward business scoring of the Olympics has were cited in the survey of 600 "powered a quantum boost in executives, conducted for the its overseas image." magazine by Moran Stahl and In Fortune's earlier survPys, Boyer, a New York-based cor­crime and poor schools held porate relocation firm. Atlanta back. While those fac­
"It's a big-time. high-level tors have not changed signifi­endorsement," Atlanta Mayor cantly, the city's perception Maynard Jackson said. "It will among executives appanmtly be an additional honor that we has. can use to promote Atlanta Atlanta "was by far the most from an economic development popular choice among out­point of view." siders, and its exncutives had a 
Chamber of Commerce Presi­more favorable opinion of tlu~ir dent Gerald L. Bartels con­town than did those in any nected the business ranking to other place in the top 10 excPpt the city being named host of the Kansas City," Fortune wrote. 
Bartell discusses proposed North American Free Trade Agreement 
By TIMOTHY CALLAHAN Council on International proposal, he said. The inex­stated. may also cause a decrease in Busmess Writer Business Development dinner pensive labor pool could create In addition, the U.S. should hourly wages, Bartell last night. a situation for possible labor use its leverage to create in­suggested. Bartell discussed advantages violations, and thus human ducements so that higher tech­American farmers oppose the 
A free trade agrePment and disadvantages of the pro­rights violations. American nology finds its way to Mexico, agreement because increased should Pxist among the United posed North American Free companies that are regulated Bartell said. foreign competition as a result Stall's, Canada and Mexico, ac­Trade Agreement. American and restricted by the Environ­of the influx of Mexican prod­cording to Father Ernest companies would profit from mental Protection Agency could Two key groups oppose the ucts will decrease the demand Bartl'll, tlw PxtwutivP director of the agreement by hiring inex­switch their operations to Mex­agreement in the United States, for American goods. thP Kl'llogg Institute for ln­ptmsive Mexican labor, he said. ico and face few environmental Bartell said. Organized labor tNIHtlional Studies. Mexico would gain the most due regulations, Bartell said. fears that American companies The agreement must not in­
This agrPPmPnt must consider to a decrease in unempl()yment moving to Central America and fringe upon the livelihood of tlw concPrns of the American levels and an influx of American "The American people must hiring Mexican labor will in­these American groups, BartPII farnwrs and organized labor, as technology , Bartell added. put pressure on the government crease unemployment in the said. WPII as tlw pffeds it eould have Human rights and environ­to take action against Mexico if U.S.. he said. The Notre Dame Council on on MPxican human rights, he mental violations could be two there are any human rights or Mexican immigrants entering International Business Devel­Pxpluirwd at a Notre Dame of the negative impacts of the environmental violations," he the United States labor pool opment sponsored the dinner. 

Seidman ends term with warning Plan to replenish deposit insurance may fall short 
WASIIINC;TC>N !AP) before leaving office today to became nearly a household Banking rPgulator L. William emphasize that it would be very name. SPielman Pndl'd his six-year unwise to go beyond this Seidman plans to remain in tPrm WPdnesday with a session of Congress ... without a the public eye. He is writing a warning that the Bush recapitalization of the fund." book and has joined CNBC as administration's plan to rPplen­The fund has shrunk to $2.4 ehief commentator on the cable ish tlw govPrnmPnt's dPposit in­billion, from $4.5 billion on TV network's business surarH'P fund could fall short. June 30, and continues to programs. 
On his last day as rhairman of deeline, Seidman said. Without In a wide-ranging interview Llw FPdPral [)pposit Insurance replenishment, failed bank with The Associated Press, Corp., St>idman said tiHl pro­resolutions may be curtailed, he Seidman said he looks back lHISPd $70 billion in taxpayer­said. with satisfaction on a legacy of hackPd borrowing, pnnding be­After more than a year of say­toughened laws and forP C:ongrPss. may not hi' ing he would quit so'on as chair­regulations, a larger and more Pnough to pay for all bank fail­man of the FDIC and the experienced examination force uri's in tlw rwxt fpw yPars. HPsolution Trust Corp., the 70-at the FDIC and a functioning 
"Tiw um·prtainly of the tilning year-old, blunt-spoken banking S&L bailout agency that two and slrPngth of tiH' Pconomir regulator finally left office on years ago did not exist. rProvPry could bring thP the day his term legally expired. "When you look at the magni­s u Hie i tln cy of tlw pro posed During periodic bouts of tude of the task, the fact that rPrapitalizalion into question." squabbling with the Treasury nobody has tried anything like hn wrott' in a !Pttrrs to Bep. Department and White House this before ... (we've) done a re­IIPnry B. GonzaltlZ, 1>-Texas, staff. Seidman often talked of markable job," he said. and SPn. Donald W. Hitlgle Jr., quitting, assuring anybody who Despite their sometimes an­1>-Mich., rhairuwn of Congress' asked he would not stick tagonistic stance, Seidman and banking commillPPS. around for his full six-year top Treasury officials have been 
ThP Bush administration, term. allies this year in pushing IJOWPVflr, has maintained thP But there always seemed to legislation that would permit $70 billion should bP more than be one more big bank to rescue, banks to diversify 
Pnough, although Treasury orw more banking dispute in geographically and into other I>npattrrwnt orficials said they Congress to help settle. businesses such as securities rould not guaranll•e that. When Seidman took office in and insurance. 
SPidrnan said his agency ex­OetobPr 1985. he and the FDIC The alliance, however, has not IWrtPCI "vpry soon" to complete wen• little known outside finan­prevented Seidman from rebut­a forPrast of hank failures for cial and political circles. But ting the administration's sug­I 993. It said previously it nx­aftm more than 1,000 bank fail­gestions that heavy-handed pPrts as many as 400 failures ures, his face and gravelly voice bank regulation is causing a this year and next. became familiar to television shortage of credit and slowing 

T 
~, 
c 
,)0 ,•'' 
l 
\> 

~ -i ' 
~ 
• 

"'<' • i "'" }_ ! 
' ~ 
'\. 
t
,­
" 
AP File Photo 

FDIC Chairman L. William Seidman ended his six-year term
In thP meantime, Seidman viewers and his agency, which the nation's recovery from 
Wednesday and warned that the plan to replenish the government's
wrotP, "it is incumbent upon me insures bank and S&L deposits, recession. 
deposit insurance fund could fall short. 
1---------------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, Ocyober 17, 1991 



P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor .............•.....•... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Editor ................•..• John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor .....•..... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller .........•........... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
NO should support Weekend Wheels 
Administration only wants what's best 
Dear Editor: 
In the parable of the good Samaritan, Jesus teaches that we are all neighbors and should treat even our greatest enemy with love. Obviously, the lead­ing Catholic University in the country should support Jesus' claim, yet the administration of our school fails to live by his words. 
They claim not that the victim should have been helped by the Samaritan, but rather that he should never have been walking on the road where he was at­tacked. In an October 10 Ob­server article about Weekend Wheels, Assistant Vice-Presi­dent of Residence Life implied just this when he said "just be­cause a danger exists, doesn't mean the University has to pro­vide protection." Mr. Kirk added that it was the responsi­bility of the students to be careful to protect themselves. 
Obviously, we all have learned that it is not safe to wander around South Bend at night. Some students however, will not always remember to live by the credo of "safety first". The administration should continue to remind students to be careful when they go out, but they must do more. Supporting Weekend Wheels is just one more way the administration could help to protect the students. 
The chances that students will go to the bars might slightly increase because of Weekend Wheels, but the chances that they will arrive home in one piece will increase greatly. 
Weekend Wheels is a terrific first step in helping to ensure the safety of the students. I would therefore like to thank HPC for being a caring neigh­bor, and suggest to Mr. Kirk and the rest of the administration that they take another look at the Good Samaritan parable. Imagine the challenge ahead of the administration in loving their enemies, when they cannot even love members of their won "Notre Dame family". 
Joe Macchiarola Dillon Hall Oct. 13, 1991 

Condoms would 'promote sin' 


DOONESBURV 
Dear Editor: 
As a senior, I'm getting tired of hearing all the complaints from students about the amount of control the administration has over students' lives here. The administration only wants the best for us. They know what a shock it can be for the average college student to have to leave the craziness of college life to enter the real world and want it to be as much fun for us as possible. 
Since most college students abhor the thought of having to take on real responsibilities upon graduation, the adminis­tration has designed Notre Dame so that for four years, all students do is beg for it. 
Single sex dorms and parietals are not meant to stifle social interaction and growth, but in fact are in place only to make real life that much more enjoyable after we leave Our 
Dear Editor: 
I find two main faults in John Blakey's letter to the editor (Oct. 1 0), in which he tries to argue that the University should provide condoms for the students. 
He likens a parent driving home a drunken child to the University handing out con­doms. The parent is giving the child a "safe ride" as the Uni­versity would be giving the stu­dents "safe sex". 
The faulty logic lies in the order of events of each action. The parent is driving the child home, not to the party. If the "safe ride" were equivalent to "safe sex" the parent would buy the child the alcohol and drive Lady's womb. 
Think about it: When are things the most memorable and enjoyable? The first time, ob­viously. The administration doesn't want us to waste all those good times and memories on our college years. 
If it weren't for the thoughtful interference of the administra­tion with our lives, we would end up like those poor souls from other schools who are condemned to look back forever at their college years as the best of their lives. This way, we can only look forward to experiencing life to the fullest when we are grudgingly released from the Notre Dame community. 
When I think of the benefits of living under the loving yolk of the Notre Dame Family, I envy all those who choose to live on campus for all four years. I've practically ruined the first few 
him/her to the party. 
Of course, I suppose Mr. Blakey's "parent" would be saying, "I don't condone drunkenness," as the University would not be condoning sex while distributing condoms. 
Another faulty point is that Mr. Blakey states that condom distribution is valid because it "is part of the Catholic charac­ter to prevent these evils" of disease, abortion, and un­planned pregnancy. True, these evils should be prevented, and that is why Christ calls all to abstain from sex outside of marriage. 
Suppose there is a murderer who slowly tortures his victims to death. Do we give him a years of my life after graduation by moving off-campus. 
That great feeling of relief that most feel after graduation is going to be that much more diminished for myself. Instead of being ecstatic at being allowed finally to lead my own life, I'll have to resign myself to the simple pleasure of leaving South Bend. 
So, stop complaining. Stop writing letters about co-ed dorms, responsibility, safe-sex on campus. the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's relationship, and all that other stuff that makes up the majority of post­parietal conversation. Just remember, if the administration does it, it's done for you; be grateful. When you rotate back to the world, everything will be so much the better for it. 
John Stoj Off-Campus Oct. 14, 1991 

guillotine to prevent the evil of torture? No, we should see to it that he ceases killing. Likewise, one must abstain in order to prevent the evils that may come about from sexual intercourse. 
Yes, suffering is a part of life, and we should all be more help­ful to those in need. But we must never "prevent" evil by promoting sin. And it is also true that "Christ reached out to people in need," but I don't see how someone could imagine Christ behind a counter passing out condoms to those who want to "prevent" evil. 
Patrick McCue Cavanaugh Hall Oct. 14, 1991 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

~~-----------~--­
Viewpoint
Thursday, October 17, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Bigoted' letter offensive to many Reader not amused 
Dear Editor: uncaring and bigoted person person; there are few people I A quick rnsponse to tlw lettnr such as himself. do not get along with and even hy Mr..Jim Ounllettn that was I think Mr. Ouellette should be fewer whom I would overtly 
by Smoron's column 
printnd in Tlw Obs11rVPr (Od S, quite ashamed to have dis­speak about in this manner. 11}1) I): Nevnr would I be of­play11d such childish and igno-· But the fact is this: despite Dear Editor: at Notre Dame is a snob'! Of fnndnd by his "puking on the rant s1mtiments in a forum as his self-proclaimed "non­I have held back on many this is a representation of the lloor" at tlw sight of a homo­public as The Observer. As for discrimination". Mr. Ouellette's issues around here at Notre student body, then of course snxual couple displaying affHc­myself, I certainly am hatred shines through, and I Dame, but I can be silent no we're going to look bad. tion. lin fact, I think tlw sight ashamed-ashamed for the consider his comments (as do more. Everyday I look forward If you need to fill up some would hn kind of funny; I would very first time to say I attend many other people) a personal to betting my Observer, and space, then put something delight in sening him in onn of this University for the sole insult. I, for one, refuse to today was no exception. useful there like, Berkeley the hll·.al gay bars. They would reason that it is the same tolerate such impenitent However, when I turned to the Breathed's Outland comic strip sun1 have to gnt the mops institution that this young man attitudes, and I see no more Accent page, I saw Paige or more Domino's Pizza n•ady!) att11nds. tactful way of dealing with an Smoron's column and just about coupons. I would even read 
By tlw sanw tok1m, though, I One more thing. I do not individual who insists on threw up. I cannot believe you more articles on ND-SMC hopl' lw would understand my want to give the impression that perpetuating them. actually print this ina11e relations (which is a topic that puking all ovnr tlw placn if I I am. like Mr. Ouelletb1, insolent Kirsten M. Dunne garbage! Why do we have a has been beaten like a dead 11vnr was unfortunate l'llough, and smart-mouthed. I am Siegfr~ed Hall column in which some horse around here for over a <;od forbid, to nwnt such an basically a people-loving Oct. 8, 1991 narcissist praises herself as a month). 
"goddess" every third week'? So, Paige, wake up and buy I assume this is all supposed yourself a due and stick it in a
Clark's speech espoused self-reliance •• 
to be a joke (obviously, no one condom, condom, condom in their right mind would think (There, I am tied with you forDear Editor: Clark also espoused self-re­I admirl' Clark as a leader. In this has any purpose), but, saying "condom"O! 
It was quite refreshing and liancP and challenged students his own words: you don't have Paige, the joke has gotten old P.S. I saved this on myinspirational to lwar .lol' Clark to achieve no matter what the to like him, but you have to re­really quickly! Have you not computer under "moron."
spl'ak. II is presnntation was odds. lie does not subseribe to spect him. If we can learn to been getting enough attention,entertaining, insightful and thH theory that people are fail­talk openly, without worrying or are you just on some highhorwst. With humor and vigor, urHs because of an oppressive about stepping on the other 
horse you need to parade Douglas T. Lucas
lw pmsPntPd a viPw that I wish society. Too often, I fear, this is people's toes, without blaming 
around here? And you wonder Flanner Hall 
morn Americans would em­too easy an nxcuse. our problems on someone else, why people think everyone here Oct. 11, 1991hrarP. Everybody blames a I think we can finally solve 
.loP Clark's spPerh wasn't a nebulous, undelirwd "them" for some of the ills of today's dancl' around politically sensi­their problems. Clark's "stand America. tive iSSIIIIS (OXCI'Jll WOlllOll). Jlp, on your own two feet" idea candidly addn~ssnd the isstws seems to me to be the only pro­Dan Fulkerson that. "politically corrPct" people active coursn of ac:tion that will Zahm Hall gloss over. homogenize and actually change what is wrong Oct. 13, 1991 
~~ nwntually igrwre. with sodnty. 
Satan challenging God through Communist terrorism 
Dear Editor: 
" ... Nou• as 111'/Wr before Satan wa11ts to shou• the world !tis slwrmfulface... " 
Our Lady's S1•ptPmiJI'r 25. l1J1JI rnPssagn from MPdj ugorjn 
"11'1• do not 11eed to waste bul­lets on tilt• f.'roats; all we need is som1• rusty spoons to dig t/ll'ir l'.lfi'S Ollt." 
Vojislav SPselj, Communist SPrhian tl'rrorist ll'adPr prPsl'ntly fighting in Croatia 
ThP Croatian city of Duhrovnik. listPd by UNESCO as a World Cultural IIPritage, is today !wing lnvnlml. Dubrovnik, Split, and otlwr Croatian cities an• !wing devastated by mortar f'i rP on till' ground. SoviHt supplit>d MIG fighters from thP air, and fPdPral naval vessels in Lhn Adriatic. Today, Croatia, the 1:ountry to which Our Lady has hnen corning daily these past tnn y11ars giving messages of JWaen to the world, is being dnvastatl'd. 
Thn f'rnsidPnt of Yugoslavia has dndared that a coup is !wing conducted by th!l Communist Fmleral Army (thH fifth largnst fighting force in EuropP). It is intlnJtionally de­stroying Croatian resid1•ntial arnas. kindnrgartens, sehools, hospitals. historie buildings, eathNlrals and churches, with­out rngard for human life. Many have dind, and hundreds of thousands are homeless. 
Aln•ady over 160 Catholic ehur!'lws have been bombed. Catholic priests and nuns, a prindpal target of tlw Yugoslav Army, are forced to wear lay dothing in an attempt to evade lwing shot. Communist machine guns have opened up on Catholies !Paving Sunday Mass. 
A reennt Croatian Foreign Pn•ss Bureau report statPs that in snvl'ral eitiPs "a major health hazard exists from thn bodies of dnad civilians" dneaying in the stronts. 
In Our Lady's Snpt11mhnr messag11 from Medjugorje she tells us "Now as never before Satan wants to show the world his shamnful face." Wn are witnessing Satan's sharnnful face in the 1wnnts taking place today in Croatia. It's important to understand that this is not an ethnic struggle betwHen Serbians and Croatians. Ivan Dragicevie. onn of thn visionar­ies in MndjugorjH, n~cently stated, "It's presented as an ethnic war but it really isn't. It's a war against Catholics." 
The facts s1~em to bark this up. Morn than half of the Ser;bians living in Croatia voted in support of Croatian indepetHhmee. On Junn 25th, the day Croatia declared independence, (also the tenth anniversary of Our Lady's apparitions in Medjugorje), the government was congratulated by the Serbian National Party. which presently makes up 30% of the Croatian Parliament. 
More than 10% of the Croatian police force are Serbs. We are witnessing genocide being conductnd by the Serbian dominated Communist Federal Army of Yugoslavia against the Croatian people in an attempt to destroy the Catholic Church. 
Bishop Paolo Hnilica said in 1989, regarding Our Lady's call from Medjugorje, "If today Satan is mobilizing as never be­fore -he has millions who serve him -so too is Mary mobilizing her generation. that is, those who serve her.... For the first time we see what history has never seen before -the banner of Satan lifted directly against God and against everything holy. 
Through Marxist Communism, Satan challenged God as never bnfore to an open battle. And Mary -this was her task -accepted this chal­lenge .... She took up the gaunt­let. And ller triumph which she foretold at Fatima is God's tri­umph, thn mercy of God... This triumph of Mary will be the greatest victory of all time." 

Last August, just days after the demise of communism in the Soviet Union, Our Lady told us that, "Today also I invite you to prayer, now as never before, when my plan has begun to be realized. Satan is strong and wants to sweep away plans of peace and joy and make you think that my son is not strong in his decisions," and she told us, " ... With your help, every­thing I wanted to realize through the secrets I began in Fatima may be fulfilled." And now she calls, "Dear children. help my Immaculate Heart to triumph!" 
In 1917, at Fatima, two months before the beginning of Marxist Communism, she predicted Satan's eventual defeat, "Nevertheless, in the end, my Immaculate Heart will triumph." 
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, a former Marxist hiniself, de­clares, "The world had never before known a godlessness as organized, militarized, and te­naciously malevolent as that practiced by Marxism. Within the philosophical system of Marx and Lenin, and at the heart of their psychology, ha­tred of God is the principal driving foree." 
And he challenges anyone to present a different statistic: between 1921 and 1959, sixty­six million people were liquidated at the hands of Marxist Communists in the Soviet Union! 
This attempt by the Communist Yugoslav Army to destroy Catholic Croatia is not the only example we see today of Satan's shameful face. Before he died, Bishop Fulton Sheen had in faet warned that Satan's most damaging attack against the chutch in this 20th century would not be through commu­nist persecutions from without, but would rather be Satan's work of apostasy from within the church itself. 
A different, more insidious bomb is being dropped upon Catholic Churches in America. The October 6, 1991 issue of the National Catholic Register reports on a recent conference in Washington, D.C., "The Future of the American Church." The conference brochure advertised it as "An Academic Conference spon­sored by Fordham University, The Catholic University of America, Villanova University and Georgetown University." 
Addresses at the conference praised New Age Spirituality, called into question the real presence in the Eucharist, en­couraged a new and more tol­erant view of abortion and listed devotion to Our Lady as one example of how "Pope John Paul II. .. has effectively en­dorsed Catholic Fundamentalism." 
The conference brochure described the keynote speaker, Fr. Hichard McBrien, as " The Crowley O'Brien-Walter professor of Theology at the University of Notre Dame, Chairman of the Department of Theology, past President of the Catholic Theological Society of America, and the 1976 recipient of its John Courtney Murray Award for distinguished achievement in theology." 
In his keynote address, "He­Imaging The Church In The Year 2000," not only did Fr. McBrien attack the Papacy, comparing the Holy Father and his Curia to Moscow's failed eoup plotters. but he maligned Cardinal Hatzinger, head of the Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith: 
"Keep in mind Cardinal Ratzinger was a teenager during the Third Heicl1. We don't know what he was doing. Was he in the Hitler Youth? ... Some suggest he was." 
In 1987, Lutheran Pastor Hichard John Neuhaus, now a Homan Catholic priest. argued in The Catholic Moment that not only is the Catholic Church in the best position to lead Christians in advancing the cause of Christ in the world to­day, it offers the last hope for keeping Christianity alive in the world. 
lie noted, however, that there is no guarantne that the Catholic Church would grasp the Catholic moment and suc­ceed in assuming the reigns of leadership. That would depHnd upon the responsivnness of Catholics to God's call, espe­cially their heeding of the prophetic direction being set by key Catholic leaders. specifi­cally: Pope John Paul II and Cardinal Hatzinger. 
Our Lady's most recent plea, "... Dear children, help my Immaculate Heart to tri­umph! ... " underlines the impor­tance of this moment, on both sides of the Atlantic. Our Lady's struggle against Satan, spoken of in the first and last books of the Bible, appears to be reach­ing a climax. It seems that a choice lies before us all today: the triumph of Our Lady's Immaculate Heart or the shameful face of Satan. 
Mother Teresa of Calcutta sums it up best in a letter she recently wrote regarding her hope of attending the 1992 National Conference on Medjugorje at the University Notre Dame next May, (Mother's Day weekend): 
"There is so much evil in the world today and Satan seems to be triumphing. But I am sure Our Lady will be able to crush his head -so let us all make every effort to join in prayer, especially the rosary and be true to the Church." 
Denis Nolan Queen of Peace Ministries Oct. 13, 1991 

Accent 
page 12 Thursday, October 17, 1991 

ND professor shares love of philosophy with America 

By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Accent Writer 
"Hello. Tom? This is Norman Lear." 
When ND philosophy professor Thomas Morris checks his answering machine he's never quite sure who's voice he'll hear. 
Lear. The Walt Disney people. "Life" magazine. WGN radio in Chicago. The EEOC. The possibilities are endless. 
"All kinds of crazy things are starting to happen," said Morris, the professor-turned-te I e vision commercial spokesman, who recently starred in Disney Studio's ad­vertisements for the Winnie-the-Pooh video series. 
Here on campus. with Plato in one hand and an electric guitar in the other, Morris is best known by students as the eccentric, bow tie wearing professor who makes philosophy fun. As of June 21, however, American viewing audiences have been able to share in Morris' philosophical education by way of his "Pooh" commercial. 
Since the first day it aired, the commerCial has run at least 159 times on three networks, gaining publicity for Morris with each showing. 
"I don't know, Tom, but I think I hear the sound of Hollywood beckoning," wrote Brad Cambell of 
D.D.B. Needham advertising agency when he sent Morris a schedule of air times this summer. 
Never fear. Morris hasn't packed his bags and moved to California just yet, but he has had some amazing offers. 

The television experience "fed into all kinds of things that happened independently," Morris said. 
That's where Lear stepped in. 
Not long after shooting the commercial, Morris heard about a new television show that Lear (producer of "All in the Family" and "The Jeffersons") planned to test on audiences for a few episodes. 
The new show would deal with theological and philosophical issues that would try to "engage people in discussions of spirituality ... topics that have been the last taboo of American culture," Morris explained. 
"I heard about it and thought 'What a great idea!'" he continued. "I realized that such issues needed to be handled sensitively, even if humorously, to convey insight into human conditions." 
With this in mirrd he decided to contact Lear's people to let them know that if they needed any expert advice, he was willing to do what he could. After corresponding several times with Act Three Communications, Morris found himself speaking with Lear himself. 
"I grew up watching 'All in the Family' and have always considered him (Lear) a great cultural critic," said Morris. "It was a treat to get this call." 
But it didn't stop at one con­versation. 
Although CBS chose to cancel the new show, Lear did not dismiss Morris' offer for expert assistance. "I bet you a dime we end up working together," Morris said Lear told him. 
Sure enough, in August. Morris was invited to Lear's home in Vermont (Robert Frost's former abode) where Lear asked him to co-host a talk show, dealing with -you guessed it _: spiritual and philosophical issues. 
The show is not yet definite, but according to Morris, Lear said they would continue to talk about it. 
"He gave me a big bear hug and said, 'We're going to be seeing each other a lot,"' said Morris. 
Once again, Morris found himself in a situation that opened the door to opportunities. 
While waiting for the talk-show to pan out, Lear introduced Morris to several influential individuals in the entertainment business. 
"Lear loves to put people together," according to Morris. "I knew he was a nice guy, but he was a loving person too. His character was totally contrary to the Hollywood stereotype." 
It was through Lear, that Morris contacted David Friend of "Life" magazine. Friend was in the middle of compiling a series of essays on the meaning of life and he asked Morris to contribute. 
"The meaning of life -two hundred fifty words or less and one week to do it in," Morris laughed. He accepted. 
His essay will part of Life's second volume on the subject. Other writers will include: 
•Corazon 
Aquino 

•Arthur 
Ashe 

•Yogi 
Berra 

•Michael 
Jackson 

•Steven 
Wright 


•and (ironically) Norman Lear. 
In addition to these two projects, Morris has a been a guest on Kathy O'Malley and Judy Marley's WGN radio talk-show in Chicago. 
Practice for his own? Maybe. 
"The more I do stuff like that (be a guest) I enrich my perspective," he explained. "If I ever do this (host a show) I will know how it feels to be on the other end." 
Commercials. Talk-shows. Speaking engagements. "You never know what's going to happen next." insists Morris. 
Two days ago, Morris received yet another interesting telephone call ­a call form the EEOC. 
In light of the Senate Judiciary hearings, the committee hoped to obtain a copy of Morris' lecture titled "The Ethics of Everyday Life," which was shown on the cable-television The Learning Channel last fall. 
"I thought it was someone playing a joke," confessed Morris. "But it was the real thing." 
Morris' new responsibilities have definitely kept him busy, but they have not interfered with his teaching. In fact, his experiences have enhanced his lessons. 
"I encourage students to develop all kinds of talents. he said. "(For me), teaching is a challenge, but there are different kinds of challenges to be explored. We need to take the initiative to know ourselves better." 
"Talents come in clusters ... don't get pigeon-holed," Morris advises. "You never know who's going to be on the answering machine!" 
Watch out Domino's, here comes Papa John's 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
The great pizza war has begun. and at the rate it's going, there won't be a pepperoni left uncut or a chunk of cheese left unshredded by the time winter rolls around. 
That superpower of pizza, Domino's, is facing it's strongest challenge to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's pizza throne that it has held for the past decade. Papa John's, the new kid on the block, has been vigorously soliciting the student market. 
Papa John's has taken a pizza­cutter to Domino's proverbial line in the sand and caused Domino's to bring back the $4 pizza as a secret weapon. 
Pizza fans should be warned that 

Papa John's Pina 
* * * * 

(out of five) 
Papa John's is not entering this mother of all pizza battles unarmed-their prices, service and, best of all, quality, will give Domino's a run for the money. 
Papa John's pizza is fast. cheap and delicious. On three separate occasions, the pizza has arrived in less than 30 minutes. On this front, Papa John's is even with Domino's, and the two of them are miles ahead of their competition. 
The prices at Papa John's are competitive, and they offer daily specials. One special included four large pizzas for $19.95. 
But Papa John's pizzas come with reinforcements: an order of breadsticks came with the four­pizza special. In addition, every pizza comes with garlic butter and pepperoncinis on the side. 
The garlic butter is great for dipping the breadsticks in. Also, you finally have something to do with all of those extra crusts. Papa John's crusts are delicious, and they're even better dipped in the garlic but­ter. 
Fans of Macri's Deli might be familiar with pepperoncinis; those little green peppers that pack a punch. They're spicy-but not too spicy. And they're· great with beer. 
The best part of Papa John's pizza is, well, the pizza. Out of pepperoni, sausage and green pepper pizzas, there wasn't a bad slice in the bunch. The sauce was great, there was plenty of toppings and it was nice and hot when it arrived. 
Pizza connoisseurs will notice that Papa John's isn't on the same level as, say, Edwardo's stuffed. But they're not trying to be Edwardo's. 
Papa John's is everything college students need: the delivery is fast and the pizza is cheap and delicious. 
Papa John's is a great alternative to Domino's, and the quality is a level above. 
This pizza war surely won't put Domino's out of business, but don't look for Papa John's to come out of this battle in surrender, either. 
Thursday, October 17, 1991 The Observer page 13 
The Observer accepts ctassifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Sa1nt Mary's off1ce, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day class•tieds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
BEST DAMN CAMPUS REP  HELP! I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S.  I need 2 USC tix  Who has that miracle ticket?  
NOTICES  WANTED!!! North America's Best Damn Tour  WILL PAY$$$$ ASK FOR AL@ X1230  Tom #3109  HELPI I NEED 6 USC TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENTS!! PLEASE  Need 4 USC GA's for NO Law  
Co.  I NEED USC,TENN,PITT.& NAVY  CALL X1704  Grads.  
TYPING AVAILABLE  Only H-Life can offer you a FREE  GA TIXS.272-6306  OR (708)249-0149  
287-4082  SPRING BREAK TRIP for every 20  NEED TIX FOR:  Call Pete at 234-4715, or  
Right to Life  paid and a chance to win a YAMAHA WAVEJAMMER. Join  USC,TENN.,NAVY call:#1518  HAVE STUDENT TICKETS TO ALL GAMES PLEASE CALL  BIG $$ For 2 Tenn GAs Marc x1689  over break at (412)241-5409.  
Weekly Picket at Crisis Pregnancy Center every Friday.  thousands of other campus reps. Call Now 1-800-263-5604.  KELLY 284-5404  NEED 2 USC GA'S Steve x2366  PERSONAL  
Meet at 9am-Library  WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S  
ctrcle.  Need 2 USC tickets for possible future Demers  TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL 284-3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME,  TO ANY HOME GAME$ CALL COLLECT  $$ I NEED 4 USC GA'S LINDA 272-5486 $$  I am the Lizard K1ng and I can do anything.  
Buy and Sell used books  Call Rich-1742  NUMBER AND PRICE  812-477-2627  
Pandora ·s Books-newbooks and the NY Times too !I corner of NO ave and Howard  FOR RENT  Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs Bridget X3778  I need a Navy GA desperately Call Mike x4655  SELLING STUD TIX BOOK OR USC 271 19 98 8 TO 11  Monica Eigelberger is a ho. EAR CANDY  
233-2342110-5:30 everyday  NEED NO-USC GA TIX. WILL  WVFI640am  
COMIC BOOK SHOW  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  NEED 3 GA'S FOR TENNESEE JOE X1360  HELP! Alum needs 2 USC GAs Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037  PAY BIG BUCKS!I! CALL JOE @ 287-4561 AFTER 6P.M.  presents  
The Jericho Sesssions  
Saturday, Oct. 19th  2 bdrm house. $150 &  NEED TENN TICKETS BOTH STD  I NEED USC GAS  Hi there! Gene's my name and  
10am-5pm. Z.B Falcons Hall Shendan at Western. Take bus to downtown, transfer to  $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 Walk to campus. 1310 South Bend Ave. Gorgeous 3 bedroom historical  AND GA CALL JONATHAN AT 277-9733 Need 3 USC GA's together:: Have 3 GA's(2 together) to  CALL PHIL X2096 Need TENN & USC GA's x1726  Stan  Insurance is my game. My only wish is that I insure that you become very wealthy. How you may ask? For merely selling me 4-6 GAs for the USC game, I can help you plan for  A 73 minute CD featuring 19 original songs from 19 campus bands. All precedes benefit the South Bend Runaway Shelter.  
Western Ave. bus. Lots of  home.  No appliances. $550/mo.  sell/trade.  #1164  Need 2 GA's for Navy and  your financial future by removing  ON SALE  NOW!!  
collectibles. door prizes every hour.  Call Jeanine Bizzaro 282-1762 or  Tennessee.  Call Tim at x1417.  large sums of money from my  AT  
Adm1ss1on $1.  Cressy & Everett/ BH  & G 233­ I NEED 2 USC G.A.'S  wallet. Seal the deal by calling me  LAFORTUNE !FORMATION DESK  
6141.  Call BARB x4761  I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC  @ 291-3778. Don't call after  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  and Tennessee.  1 O(might wake up the little Mrs.)  JEC are ho's  
237-1949  NEED LODGING FOR NOTRE  I NEED TENN. GA OR STUDENT  Chris 239-5713  
DAME GAMES? 10 MINUTE WALK  TICKET  Can you dig this! I am terribly  Nerf-R.I.P.  
LOST/FOUND  FROM CAMPUS. 233-8745 AFTER 5:00PM.  TOM-TOM  I Need Two Tennessee Tickets So my friends can see those Red Nee  interested in buymg a Student ticket for Tennessee. Price is no object,  Consider yourself a marked man­ 

 X1762  Vols.  Call the Green-One x3409.  unless of course you want more  Lock your door tonight  
LOST NO VARSITY LETTER JACKET SUNDAY AT STEPAN  FOR SALE  PLEASEPLEASEPLEASEPLEASE  Attention! I have friends coming  money than I am willing to pay you. Give Dave Bose a ring at 283-2015.  cause the boys are a goin' drinkin'  
FIELD NO. ALUM. PLEASE CALL  2-4 TN GA'S SEAN @289-6439  from California who woud love to  If Dave is busy his personal staff will  
ADAM AT 271-0716.  '85 NISSAN MAXIMA. 4-dr. stick,  see the Irish destroy USC. Any GA:  be happy to help you. Irish V-ball  CLUB  23  
loaded. Excellent condition. $4990.  lRADE: Will trade 2 USC GA's  or student tix would be most  ruleslllllllllll  &  
LOST WALKMAN AT THE  271-7018 lv. msg.  for 2 TENN GA's  excellent, dude. Call277-6932 and  VIC'S  SUBS  
HUDDLE ON 10/10191 AROUND 11  call: 259-6956  give Rob your price. If Rob isn't  Poly vou Francais? Neither do I.  
PM. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL  2 UNITED AIRLINE TICKETS SB  home listen to his excellent  Now that we have something in  are now open from  
MARl AT X4270. I CANNOT  TO WESTCHESTER CO NY.  NEED USC STUD TIX  x2742  answering machine and leave a  common you should have no  11 am to 3 am  
SURVIVE WITHOUT IT!  LEAVE NOV 7 -RETURN NOV  message.  trouble selling me a GA or stud. tick.  
10. $120 EACH. 291-6543  NEED N.D. FOOTBALL G.A.'S  for USC. I am willing to make deals  The Only Alternative  
LOST BLUE JEAN JACKET AT SENIOR BAR ON SATURDAY,  89 VW Jetta GL Wolfsburg,  2 or 4 for U.S.C. or Tennesse Phone 256-2836  Need 2-4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay top dollar! call Jeff 234-2396  that are just smoking. Trust me. Call Quinn at 283-2059.  Live Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays)  
10/12. CALL LORI239-8327.  50 th year edition. All power  Phone : 234-4015  
277-7363  I NEED 2 Navy GAs.  I NEED 2 TENNESEE GA'S  I desperately need 1 TENN stud  
FOUND MEN'S WATCH IN  call Carol x4942.  CALL COREY 277-5854  ticket! Julie 277-6806  Just get me on 1-80 East  
LAFORTUNE COMPUTER LAB.  CyclePro Mountain Bike, 18 speed,  baby, and no stops until  
CLAIM IN COMPUTER LAB.  26" wheel, 19" frame. $200.  NEED GA'S: 5 TENN & 1 NAVY  I Need 2 USC GA's  NEED 2 NAVY GAs WILL PAY  McSorley's.  
Fuji Touring Bike, 12 speed, 27"  KELLY X4854  -­Steve X 1835  $$$ CALL AMY 2558  
LOST: Brown. brushed leather  wheel, 19" frame. $165. 232-2631.  stronger than bun  
jacket  Very desperate to recover  I NEED 2 USC GA'S  NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO  If you only knew how  
it!!l  If you have it, have seen it, or  USC STUD. IN SR. SEC. +TEMP  CALL MEGAN x1275  USC AND TENN.  bad I need  English classes offered  
know anythmg about it, PLEASE  STUD. I. D.  So cheap you'll cry.  JAY X1578  
call Robb at t802.  Reward offered.  Call Jeff @ 288-9334  Help!!!!  I Need 2 GA's to USC.  U.S. C.  G.A.'sllll  Beatriz  
No quest1ons asked.  Please call Andy @ 233-9588  I NEED 2 USC GA'S IN A BAD  Call  272 97 13  
student football ticks for sale. call  WAY I!  Brady x1191  Please call anytime  
LOST OR STOLEN  232-3753  NEED stud tix or GAs for any  x.4588  
JESUS He's 3-dlmenslonal and my RA wants h1m back to light  TICKETS  home games. Call John 232-8065 $$$  I need two USC GA's so my paren  Please make my family happy with 4 U.S.C. Gas. I will pay top$,  I know who the toilet doogle thief is! ...........................  
up h1s room.  Will trade 2 Navy GAs for 2  can bring me back to  Jenny at 3822  ATTENTION MEN AND WOMEN  
Return h1m With no questions  Need to trade:  USC or 2 Tenn. GAs. Call  school!!  Please HELP I I don't wa1  OF SCHOLASTIC AND WVFI:  
asked to 316 Flanner.  289-4061 days or 277-6239 nights.  to live at home!!!  
God would want you to do it.  Two World Series tickets (lower  Call Jeanne x2670 -leave  Have stud tix bks for sale. Call  We. the only legitimate medium at  
LOST-pearl necklace In grey  level reserved) for either game this weekend for 2 USC GA's.  will trade 2navy GA for 2USC/ 2TENN GA-Kevin 3252  message  x4774 or x4780  Notre Dame. salute you. Your valor on the playing field was only  
eyeglass case 1019/91 REWARD!!!  exceeded by your sportsmanship.  
Kathleen 288-9421  Call Michelle x4988  Need 4 USC GA's, 4 Tenn. GA's, and 3 Tenn. Stud. Call #3718  I NEED USC TIX BAD!! CALL KEITH #1560  I HAVE TWO USC GA'S CALL GEORGE XI 002  We congratulate you on a fine victory and do hereby challenge you  
FOUND: on first floor  USC Student Tix needed­ to a rematch, preferrably in a sport  
N1ewland on 9 Oct man's  Call Sean @4274  NEED 13 NO-USC GA TKTS. CALL  TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS.  involving physical contact and  
Jacket. Contact Dave at  284-5261 IF YOU ARE SELLING.  RANDY 800-323-7687.  NEED:  consumption of alcohol. Please  
289-3234 and describe.  Need 2 NAVY GA'S  2 AIR FORCE & 4 USC GA's  reply.  
Call Dave @1747  I NEED NAVY GA'S  NEED 2 USC GA'S,  CALL JOE  x1230  Love, The Big Oh.  
FOUND: MEN'S GLASSES IN  CALL KRISTIN 277-6708  Will Trade Tenn Student Tix and  P.S. Stud. Govt., you losel  
CUSHING AUD. SATURDAY  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Plenty o' Cash!  
NIGHT{ I 0:30pm)  WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655.  Need 2 USC GAs  Call Dan x1236  USC,Ten,Navy marr. stu. tix for  CARROLL HALL  
CALL BOB x1902 TO IDENTIFY  Will pay  troo da nose  sale. 2 packs.  Will sell packs or  CARROLL HALL  
Please help, I need Tenn GA's, call  Call Brendan 277-9249  NEED 4 NAVY GAs-CALL DOC­ indiv. 277-5348  HAUNTED HOUSE  
FOUND!IIII  Kevin@# 1407.  2723001  HAUNTED HOUSE  
female watch ...picked up at  Wanted: 2 Navy GA's $$$ is no  YOU give me 2 USC GA'S -I'LL  who: da' Vermin  
connell's concert. call 1682.  WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR  object!  Call Fred  289-6439  I NEED USC GAs IN A BIG WAY.  give you BIG $$. Aimee x4092.  when: Thurs. Oct. 31st  
TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL  My pen pal from the Gulf War is  where : Carroll (didn't you  
WANTED  601-249-3417 NIGHTS.  NEED 10 TENN. G.A.S call Pat Arendt x1535 $$$$$  coming to visit---<lon't deny him the chance to see a game. CALL  will buy any tenn or navy  read the headline?) why : it's SPOOOOOOKYI  
i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC.  MONICA 283-4098.  tix. john 1811  Admission: $2  
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000  pete x1791  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  The ghouling starts at 7:30  
mo.Summer. Yr.round,AII  Need : 2 GA's for USC, 4 GA's  Need GAs for USC  ends at 10:30  
Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write  $$$$$  Need 2 USC GA's Will x1621  for TENN. Call John 273-9165.  Call Jackie 277-3610  
IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del  THE CARROLL HALL  
Mar CA 92625.  USC GA's needed. Call and leave  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED TWO TENN. GA'S  HAUNTED HOUSE  
message 277-9468.  PRICE NO OBJECT!  I need USC GAs or Stud. Tx.!  
Statistics consultant wanted -NO  HELP!! NEED USC AND TENN.  CALL CHRIS #3364  Call Monica 273-2202  it's wild, weird. funny stuff.  
professional specialist or grad  $$$$$  TIX!!  CALL X3353  
student, expert in stat & SPSS/PC  WANTED: 2 USC GA'S- Desperate Case #306: Girl  hey nit  
4.0, to help local firm design &  Need 1 USC GA or Student ticket.  BURGEOISE CALIFORNIA  who has six freckles per every inch  
Implement customer surveys.  Must  NEED TENN. GA'S.  Call X4637.  Thanks!  RELATIVES WILLING TO PAY BIG of her body needs equal number of  
have t1me available.  Send resume  CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS,  BUCKS I.E. $$$$$$$$$$$  USC GA'S to  impress future in-laws  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  
to SBSiKMA, PO box 1024, Notre  OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM.  WANTED. 4 PENN st ga'  CALL SEAN 289-6439  (who are wealthy but somewhat  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  
Dame. IN  46556  x2447  cheap). Please help this poor  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  
usc usc usc usc usc usc  suffering soul and call 255-3907.  289-1993. Office near campus.  
Downtown book warehouse  usc usc usc usc usc  WILL TRADE 2 TENN GA'S FOR 2  I NEED 1 USC GA.  PLEASE!  
NOW HIRING Send Name. Add .. phone#, yr/major, to  Vince Needs two GA's to see THE TROJANS  PENN STGA'S CALL BILL x1100  CALL ELLEN  X4830.  NEED 2 NAVY AND TENN GA'S MIKE 1655  see CLASS/page 15  
Mr. Turner. P.O. Box 4621  Call x3414 anytime  
South Bend IN 46624  usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc  Alumni needs USC tix. Will pay top $. Call Rick collect  $$$$NEED 1 USC GA$$$$ $$$DOMINIC x2348$$$  USC USC-MY DAD WILL GET A******************* USC GA;WILL YOU BE THE Jf. Jf.  
NEED Tenn/Navy GAs-please  602-957-6870 after 7 p.m.  LUCKY ONE TO SELLITTO  Jf.  RAISE $500 ... $1 000 ... $1500  Jf.  
Chris1791 TRAVEL FREEil SELL QUALITY · SPRING BREAK VACATION TO JAMAICA. HIGHEST COMMISSIONS PAID. WORK FOR  Need 4 GAs for Penn State I Please call AJ X1253 FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME GAMES273-1802  NAVY NAVY NAVY I need Navy tickets in the worst way. Please help me. We're having a reunion and I need GAs for out-of­town alums. If you have tix call  Trade 2 Navy GAs for 2 Tenn GAs. Call Mike X3549 Will Trade 2 USC GA's for Two TENNGA's. Call Matt1670  HIM?CALL SAM AT 4863 WANTED: 3 TENN GA'S CALL x4774 USC stud tlk 4 sale Ryan 3459  Jf. Jf. ! FOOLPROOF ! ! FUNDRAISING !.. ..Jt-For your fratern1ty. sorortly. team Of Jt- 
THE BESTI SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710.  I NEED NAVY AND TENN GA'S  Kelley 239-5303. HELP! I'm in need of 4 GA tics  Need USC GAs please! Paul x1605  Jt-ABSOLUTELy MUST HAVE ONE:  other campus organ,za11on Absolutely no investment requir~!  Jt­:  
HAVE: 1 PITT GA  for the TENN game.  SELLING USC TICKETS.  ONLY ONE-USC GA Call ian  Jt- ACT NOW fOI IMI CHANCE TO WIN A  Jt- 
HELP  FOR SALE OR TRADE  Call Alissa at 284-5319.  LUIS 273-1528.  x1203  Jt- WilliAN CIUISI AND fUULOUS flllllll  Jt- 
Need a ride to LaCrosse WI area this Friday WILL PAY  CALL TOM  Need 4 TENN GA's  wanted: many Navy and USC  NEED USC GAs. MONEY NO  Jt-;Jt- CALL 1-800-950-8472. <!XI. 50  .. Jt- 
Call Michele 4802  X1762  call jon 271-1562  GA's  whitney x4304  OBJECT! Call Ron x2157  :  •••••••••••••••••,  

page 14 

Thursday, October 18, 1991
SCOREBOARD 
NHL STANDINGS WHALERS 3, JETS 2 NFL INJURIES TRANSACTIONS 
WALES CONFERENCE WHALERS 3, JETS 2 Patrick Dlvlalon 

Hartford 1 2 0-3
w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Dlv 

Winnipeg 1 0 1-2 
Washington 5 1 0 10 25 18 3-1-0 2-0-0 3-0-0 First Perlod-1, Hartlord, Burt 1 (Verbeek, New Jersey 4 2 0 8 25 18 3-0-0 1·2-0 1·2-0 Cullen), 4:18. 2, Winnipeg, Elynul< 2 (Oiausson, NY Rangers 4 4 0 8 22 27 3-1-() 1·3-0 2·2.0 
Shannon), 6:33. Penakles-Cullen, HarPlnsburgh 3 1 1 7 21 19 ().().1 3-1-0 2·1·1 (roughing), :47; MacDermld, Win (roughing), 4:1~;NY Islanders 2 2 1 5 19 20 1·1-0 1·1·1 1·2.0 
Picard, Har (Interference), 12:58; MacDermld, WonPhiladelphia 1 3 1 3 15 20 1-1-o 0.2·1 1·3-1 (hooking), 15:36; Burt, Har (roughing), 18:01; Amoma Dlvlalon Norwood, Har (roughing), 18:01; MacDermld, WinMontreal 4 2 9 25 13 2·2-0 2.()..1 2+1 (roughing), 18:01.
Hartlord 3 1 7 16 13 1.()..1 2·1-0 1·1·1 Second Perlod-3, Hartlord, Cullen 1 (Brown, Boston 1 3 3 13 19 1·2-0 0.1·1 0.1·1 
Verbeek), 6:50 (pp). 4, Hartlord, Verbeek 2 (Cullen,Quebec 1 3 3 16 17 1·1-1 0.2-0 1-1.() 
Brown), 19:34 (pp). Penakles-Verbeek, HarBuffalo 1 4 3 16 24 0.2·1 1·2-0 1+1 (slashing), :29; Olausson, Win (hooking), 6:0S; CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Verbeek, Har (holding), 10:Q4; Verbeek, HarNorrla Dlvlalon (slashing), 16:59; Olausson, Win (slashing), 16:59; w L T Pts GF GA Home Away Dlv Hunter, Har (unsportsmanlike condud), 18:52;Chicago 3 2 1 7 28 22 2·1·1 1·1.0 0.1-1 
Hartman, Win, double minor (roughing, Minnesota 3 1 0 6 13 12 3·0-0 0.1-0 2-0-0 unsportsmanll<e conduct), 18:52.
St. Louis 3 2 0 6 16 16 3-0-0 ().2-0 1·1.0 
Third Pertod-5, Winnipeg, Olausson 4 (Housley,Toronto 2 4 0 4 20 21 2·2-0 0.2.() 2·1-0 Oiczyk), 8:32. Penakles-Housley, Win (slashing),Detrott 1 3 1 3 14 19 1·1-0 0.2·1 0.2·1 
6:20; Cullen, Har, mlnor-mlscondudSmythe Dlvlalon (unsportsmanlike conduct), 8:32. 

Vancouver 5 1 0 10 23 16 1.()..0 4·1-0 3-0-0 Shots on goai-Hartlord 14·12·7-33. WinnipegCalgary 3 3 0 6 29 18 2-0-0 1·3-0 2·3-0 16·13·9--38.
Los Angeles 2 1 2 6 18 18 1·1·1 1.()..1 2·1·2 Power-play Opportunttles-Hartlord 2 of 5;Winnipeg 2 3 1 5 20 22 1·3-0 1.()..1 2·2·1 Winnipeg 0 of 6.
Edmonton 1 4 1 3 13 24 1.()..1 ().4.() 1·2·1 Goalles-Hartlord, Whttmore, 3-1-1 (38 shots-36San Jose 1 5 0 2 19 30 1·2-0 ().3-0 1·3.0 
saves). Winnipeg, Beauregard, 1·2-0 (33·30). 
Tueaday'a Gamea Thuraday'a Gamea A-9,746.
Detro~ 3, Edmonton 1 St. Louis at Detrott, 7:35p.m. 

Relere&-Rob Shick. Linesmen-Swede Knox,Pittsburgh 7, N.Y. Islanders 6, OT Quebec at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. 
Jean Moran.
St. Louis 5, Toronto 1 N.Y. Islanders at Pittsburgh, 7:35 p.m. 
Calgary 6, Minnesota 3 Edmonton at Chicago, 8:35p.m. Wedneaday'a Gamea Toronto at Calgary, 9:35p.m. Late Game Not Included Minnesota at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 

N.Y. Rangers 4, New Jersey 2 Boston at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. NBA PRESEASON SCORES Montreal 5, Buffalo 1 Frlday'a Games Hartlord 3, Winnipeg 2 Montreal at Buffalo, 7:35p.m. San Jose at Los Angeles, (n) New Jersey at Washington, 7:35 p.m. 
Tueaday'a Gamea Boston 106, New York 103 

NLCS GAME 6: BRAVES 1, PIRATES 0 Denver 119, Los Angeles Clippers 111 
Chicago 98, Seattle 83 Minnesota 96, Miami 95 Phoenix 110, Milwaukee 89 
ATLANTA PITISBURGH Philadelphia 112, Orlando 107ab r h bl ab r h bl San Antonio 121, Dallas 113
LoSrnth K 3 0 2 0 Redus1b 3 0 0 0 Wedneaday'a GameaKtMchl H 0 0 0 0 Merced ph 0 0 0 0 Late Games Not IncludedTrdway 2b 3 0 1 0 JBell ss 4 0 0 0 Philadelphia 109, Orlando 102Lerrl\e 2b 0 0 0 0 VnSiyk cf 3 0 0 0 Los Angeles Clippers 113, Atlanta 109Pndhn 3b 4 0 0 0 Bonilla rf 2 0 0 0 New York 111, Boston 101Justice rf 4 0 0 0 Bonds H 3 0 0 0 Cleveland 104, Lhah 97Gantcl 3 1 1 0 Bechee 3b 3 0 1 0 Houston 102, Detrott 1 00 Bream 1b 4 0 0 0 Slaugh! c 3 0 1 0 New Jersey 105, Milwaukee 100 Olson c 4 0 1 1 Lind 2b 3 0 1 0 Golden State vs. Charlotte at Las Vegas, (n)Billard ss 3 0 1 0 Drabek p 2 0 0 0 Indiana vs. Denver at Fort Collins, Colo., (n) Averyp 3 0 1 0 Varsho ph 1 0 1 0 Thursday'• GameaGregg ph 1 0 0 0 Phoenix vs. Atlanta at Nashville, Tenn., 8:30p.m. 

Penap 0 0 0 0 Washl.vs. Chicago at Birmingham, Ala., 8:30p.m. 

Totals 32 1 7 1 Totals 27 0 4 0 Frlday'a Gamea 

L. A. Lakers In McDonald's Open at Parls, 3 p.m. Pittsburgh 000 000 0~ Atlanta 000 000 001-1 Philadelphia at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. 
Indiana vs. Boston at Providence, R.I., 7:30p.m. 
DP-Atlanta 2. LOB-Atlanta 8, Pittsburgh 3. 2B-loSmlth 2 (3), Olson (1 ). SB-Gant 2 (6). 

Orlando vs. Cleveland at W.Salem N.C., 7:30 p.m. 
CS-loSmtth (2). S-Treadway, Merced. 

N. J. vs.Chicago at Lansing, Mich., 7:30 p.m. 
IP H R ER BB so AUanta 

Washington vs. Utah at Louisville, Ky., 8:30 p.m. 
Detro~ at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m. 
Avery W,2·0 8 3 0 0 2 8 

Pena S,3 t 0 0 t Portland at Seattle, 10 p.m. 
1 0 PIUabu'gh 

Golden State at Los Angeles Clippers, 10:30 p.m. 
Drabek L,t·t 9 7 1 3 5 WP-Pena . Urrplres-Home, Froemming; First, Harvey; Second, Plansky; Third, DeMuth; Left, Gregg, Right, Davidson. 
ANYTHING l.ESS WOULD BE UNCIV/l.IZED 
AP TOP 25 
THIS WEEKEND IN NOTRE DAME SPORTS The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Press 1991 college football poll, with first-place votes In parentheses, records through Oct. 12, total points based on 25 points lor a first-place vote Friday, October 18 through one point lor a 25th· place vote, and previous ranking: Record Pts Pvs
Volleyball @ Butler 7 p.m. 

t. Florida St. (58) 6-0-0 t,472 t 
2. Miami (1) 5-0-0 1,392 2 
Men's Soccer vs. DePaul 7:30p.m. 3. Washington (2) 5-0.1 1,394 3 4. Michigan 4·1.0 t,282 5 5. Notre Dame 5-1-0 t,236 7 
Men's Cross Country-Indiana Intercollegiate 4 p.m. 6. Florida 5-1-0 t,179 to 7. California 5-0-0 t,02t 13 8. Tennessee 4-t-0 998 4
Women's Cross Country· Indiana Intercollegiate 3 p.m. 

9. Nebraska 4-t-o 922 14 to. Penn St. 5-2·0 883 9 tt. N. Carolina St. 5-0-0 858 t6 12. Oklahoma 4·1·0 760 6 13. Illinois 4·1·0 744 20Saturday, October 11 
t4. Alabama 5-t·O 691 t9 t5.1owa 4·t·O 664 t7 Football @ Air Force 6:30 p.m. (ESPN) 16. Baylor 5-1·0 629 8 17. Georgia 5-1·0 571 22 
18. Ohio St. 4+0 504 ttWomen's Tennis· MCC Championships TBA t9. Texas A&M 3-1·0 382 2t 20. Pittsburgh 5-1·0 3t6 12 
Volleyball @ Evansville 7 p.m. 2t. Clemson 3-1-1 239 t8 22. Colorado 3-2·0 229 25 23. East Carolina 5-1·0 t70 
Women's Soccer@ Massachusetts 1 p.m. 

24. Syracuse 4·2·0 138 t5 25. Arizona St. 4·1·0 t22 
REMAINING FOOTBALL SCHEDULE Sunde y, October 20 
OCTOBER t9 @AIR FORCE Women's Tennis· MCC Charrpionships TBA 
OCTOBER 28 VS. USC

.r 
NOVEMBER 2 VS. NAVY 
NOVEMBER I VS. TENNESSEE 
NOVEMBER 16 @ PENN STATE 
NOVEMBER 30 @HAWAII 
Top 25 opponents In BOLD. 
Thursday 

CHICAGO AT GREEN BAY-Bears: Neal 
Anderson (hamstring), LB Ron Rivera (back), DE 
Richard Dent (ankle) are questionable; T Kenh Van 
Horne (etlow) Is probable. Packers: T Ken 
Ruettgers (hamstring) Is doubtful; LB Bryce Paup 
(hamstring) Is questionable; QB Don Majkowski 
(shoulder), RB Allen Alee (hamstring), WA-KR Val 
Sl<ahema (groin), G-T Ketth Uecker (ankle) are 
probable. 
Sunday 

CLEVELAND AT SAN DIEGO-Browns: DE Rob 
Burnett (cak), T·G Paul Farren (shoulder), CB 
Randy Hilliard (groin), RB Kevin Mack (leg), CB 
Frank Mlnn~leld (shoulder) are questionable. 
Chargers: TE Arthur Cox (loot) Is questionable; G 
Eric Moten (neck), LB Gary Plunmer (thumb), LB 
Henry Rolling (arm) are probable. 

HOUSTON AT MIAMI-Oilers: CB Crts Dishman (hamstring) Is questionable; CB Steve Jackson (groin), CB Richard Johnson (knee), G Mike Munchak (knee) are probable. Dolphins: T Jell Deilenbach (call), G Harry Galbreath (ankle), WR Tony Martin (thigh) are questionable; DE Jeff Cross (shoulder), NT AHred Oglesby (knee) are probable. 
KANSAS CiTY AT DENVER-Chiefs: CB Allert Lewis (knee), G David Lutz (knee), LB Tracy Simien (shoulder) are questionable; DE Bill Maas (back), T John Ah (elbow) are probable. Broncos: G Sean Farrell (shoulder) Is questionable; RB Gaston Green (thigh), DE Ron Holmes (groin), WR Shannon Sharpe (knee) are probable. 
NEW YORK JETS AT INDIANAPOLIS-Jets: TE Ken Whisenhunt iknee-injured reserve), G Dave Cadigan (ankle), Freeman McNeil (knee) are out; NT Scan Mersereau (ankles) Is questionable. Cotts: QB Jack Trudeau (thurrb) Is out; RB Eric Dickerson (hamstring), DE Jon Hand (neck), LB Jeff Herrod (ankle), T Zelross Moss (knee), T Mark Vander Pool (elbow) are probable. 
SEAffiE AT PITTSBURGH-Seahawks: QB Dave Krieg (thumb) Is probable. Stealers: S Larry Griffin (knee) Is out; G Terry Long (etlow), TE Mike Mularkey (knee) are doubtful; TE Adrian Cooper (ankle), CB Richard Shelton (hamstring), DE Keith Willis (ankle) are questionable; QB Bubby Brister (hamstring) Is probable. 
TAMPA BAY AT NEW ORLEANS-Buccaneers: WR Bruce Hill (knee-Injured reserve) Is out; QB Vinny Testaverde (hand) Is doubtful; CB-S Wayne Haddix (hamstring) Is questionable. Saints: RB Bobby Morse (knee) Is out; TE John Tlce (ankle), RB Craig Heyward (hamstring) are questionable; LB Sam Mills (knee), RB Dalton Hilliard (ribs), TE Hoby Brenner (knee), QB Bobby Hebert (shoulder) are probable. 
DETROIT AT SAN FRANCISCO-Lions: S Herb Welch (toe), TE Derek Tennell (ham;tring) are questionable. 49ers: LB Michael Watter (hamstring) Is doubtful; DE Kevin Fagan (ankle) is questionable. 
ATLANTA AT PHOENIX -Falcons: DT Oliver Barnett (ankle), TE Gary Wilkins (knee) are questionable; CB Bobby Butler (hamstring), K Norm Johnson (linger) are probable. Cardinals: G Joe WoK (chest) Is doubtful; LB Garth Jax (neck) Is questionable; WR Randal Hill (shoulder) is probable. 
LOS ANGELES RAMS AT LOS ANGELES RAIDERS -Rams: WR Willie Anderson (back), G Joe Milinlchik (shoulder) are out; LB Brett Farynlarz (knee) Is doubtful; CB Todd Lyght (ankle). DT Mike Pial (shoulder) are questionble; G Bern Brostek (ankle) is probable. Raiders: G Max Montoya (groin) Is doubtful; G Steve Wisniewski BASEBALL 
American League 

MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Traded George Canale, first baseman, to the Montreal Expos tor Alex Dlaz, outfielder. Netlonal League 
PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Assigned Ron Jones, outfielder, outright to Scranton Wil<es·Barre of the International League. Announced that Darrel Akerlelds, Amallo Carreno and Chuck Malone, pitchers; and John Morrls and Sll Carrpusano, outfielders, rejeded outright assignment to Scranton Wilkes-Barre and became free agents. Activated Pat Combs, Ken Howell and Steve Ontiveros, pnchers; Darren Dau~on, catcher; and Lenny Dykstra, outfielder, from the disabled list. BASKETBALL Netlonal Baaketball Aaaoclation 
NBA-Permanently dismissed Roy Tarpley, Dallas Mavericks forward, under terms of the league's anti-drug agreement. 

NEW JERSEY NETS-Named Joe Macdonell vice president of ticket operations. FOOTBALL National Football League 
ATLANTA FALCONS-Adlvated Bruce Pickens, defensive back. Placed William Evers, defensive back, on the practice roster. 
INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Placed Jack Trudeau, quarterback, on Injured reserve. Re-signed Rusty Hilger, quarterback, and Cornell Holloway, defensive back. 
NEW YORK JETS-Placed Ken Whisenhunt, tight end, on injured reserve. 
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Claimed Jeff Kemp, quarterback, on waivers. Waived Pat Ryan, quarterback. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Placed Dexter Davis, defensive back, on Injured reserve. Signed Chris Oldham, cornerback. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
HARTFORD WHALERS-Signed Zarley Zalapski, delenseman, to a muttlyear contrad. 
NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Traded Alan Stewart, forward, to the Boston Bruins lor future considerations. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Signed Kris King, forward, and Normand Rochefort, delenseman. LACROSSE Major Indoor Lacroaae League 
DETROIT TURBOS-Named Blane Harrison assistant coach. PITTSBURGH BULLS-Named Ernest Llchtfuss general manager. 
(neck) Is probable. 


1~ ~ 

3 
• 
4 
~ 
s;k
...:..-: ·... : 
.·: '.. ·.-~:, .·:·•..... ·.·. • ·. 

11W1:1 1M Pta. tt.a1 arne 
1. (1) Florida State {25) S·O 649 10/19 vs. Middle Tenn. St. 
-· 

2. 
12) Mia.rru 5.() 616 10/19 vs. Long Beach St. 

3. 
13) w..n;ngton 11) 5·0 S02 10119 al Caldorma 

4. 
IS) ..chigan 4-1 575 10/19 vs. lndtana 

5. 
(7) Noire Dame 5-1 538 10/19 at Air Force 


s. (10) Florida 4·1 527 10/19 vs. Northern lll1nois 
7. 
(13) California 5-0 455 10119 vs. Washmgton 

8. 
(4) Tonne,_ 4·1 450 10/19 vs. Alabama(J') 

9. 
(1S) Nebraska 1-1 411 1GI19vs. Kansas State 

10. 
(5) Oklahoma 4-1 398 10119 vs. Colorado 

11. 
(9) Penn su.• 5-2 383 10/19 vs. Rulgers 

12. 
(17) N.C. State 5.() 356 101'19 vs Marshall 

13. 
(8) Bayto< 5-1 308 10119\IS. Teaas A&M 14. (20) IllinoiS 4·1 302 10119allowa 15. (19) Alabama 5·1 291 10f19vs. Tennessee 15 (15) 1owa 4-1 291 10119 vs. llt•no•s 


Ohio Stale 4·1 264 10i19 vs. N'western()1 Georgia 5-1 214 10119 at Vandetbdt
:::~: 

Plllabuovh 5-1 153 10119 vs Syracuse 
20. 
(21) Te11as A&M 3·1 149 10119 at Ba)'for 

21. 
1121 Clemson 3-H 136 10126 vs. N.C. Stat.s 

22. 
(181 SyracuH 4·2 97 10119 at P1nsburgh 

23. 
124) Colorado 3-2 79 10119 at Oklahoma 

24. 
(23) Auburn 4·2 71 10126 vs. Miss1ssipp1 SL 25 (NR) East Carolma 5·1 42 !Oi26 vs. P1Usburgh 


x-at Bmnmgham Y'-al Cleveland 

Othl!fs receiving voles: Aru:ona Stale 20, Texas 17, Columb•a 16, Fresno State 5, Mississippi Stale 5, Rutgers 5. Air Force 4, Missrss•ppl 4, Bowltng Green 3, Georgta Tech 3 lndi1na 3, Nor:h Caroltna 2, RICe 2. SouthH'n C1l 1, Wtsconsm 1 
Bold indicates NO opponent 

Schools parl1cipa11ng: Alabama, Artzona, Arizona State, 8.111 Slate. Brtgham Young, Colorado, Coluni:ua, Duk~, Flortda. Flor•da Sl.'lle. lllmois, Indian-., Ki1nsas, Kentucky, M1am1, Mlchtgan. Nebrask..:l. Noire Dame, Oregon, Oregon Stale. Penn Stale. Purdue. TeJCas, Utah, Yves! V•rgtnL.1. WISCOnSin 
The Ooserver!Brend;m Regan 

Thursday, October 17, 1991 The Observer 
page 15 

Drabek loses hard-luck game 
Avery spoils injured Drabek's masterful performance 
PITTSBUHGII lAP) -You couldn't pitch much bettpr than Doug Drabek did. The trouble for the Pittsburgh Pirates was that Steve Avery did. 
The Pirates were shut out only twice at home all season. but Avery and Alejandro Pena ­the .Killer A's who have silencRd Pittsburgh's Killer B's in a gut­wrRncher of a National League playoff series -now have shut them out twice in two playoff games. 
After the Atlanta Braves tied up the tightest NL playoff series in history by beating Pittsburgh 1-0 Wednesday night in Game 6, the Pirates were almost apologetic. 
As bad as they felt about blowing a chance to clinch the series on their home field, they felt even worse for Drabek, who is now 1-1 in this series despite allowing just one run in 15 innings. 
"''ve had a lot of great pitch­ers, but he's as good as any of them," pitching coach Hay Miller said. "He's as good as any of them. He pitched with a lot of heart." 
lie also was pitching with a bum left leg. but Drabek still didn't allow a run until Greg Olson's two-out, run-scoring double in the ninth broke Atlanta's 26-inning scoreless 
. --.,.J# ..,..,.. --·:~-,~~'· ..., 

streak, the longest in NL playoff
·~~,.....-..~..."::: :;:.. ·~·~·· ~­

history.
~~~ ·.. · 

"He gutted it out, he really tted it out." catcher Don
... ­

-
AP file photo Doug Drabek loses last night's pitchers' duel to Braves' Steve Avery. 
Happy 

ffi]~Q ~ 
Slaught said of Drabek, who spent more than 40 minutes after the game icing down his sore hamstring. 
"lie wasn't all right physically, but that might have helped him because he didn't overthrow and he used all of his pitches." 
Drabek said the injury proba­bly cost him his fastball. but he compensated by blending a va­riety of breaking pitches and relying on his slider for big outs. And there were plenty of them. 
"I didn't have my fastball," he said. "(Trainer) Kent Biggerstaff really did a great job with me between innings, working on my leg. I felt fine. It was a well­pitched game ... on both sides." 
In a series of ever-shifting momentum in which both teams have won more games on the road than at home, the Pirates got the kind of well-pitched game it takes to win in the postseason. 
Except they didn't score. As Bobbr, Bonilla said, "We got nada. 
The Braves didn't get much more than that off Drabek, who is only 2-2 in the postseason despite allowing just four earned runs in 31 1-3 innings, a 
1.15 ERA. The Braves' run wa.<> the only one he has allowed in this series. 
"lie wasn't healthy," Andy Van Slykc said. "He pitched this game with his gut. He's pitched with his gut a lot of times. more than I can count." 
"lie's the pitcher you want out 
therfl in the big game." Barry 
Bonds said. 
Drabek pitched the division title-clinching game each of the last two seasons, and he also won Game 5 with Pittsburgh on the verge of elimination in the 1990 playoffs against Cincinnati. 
The Pirates felt very good with Drabek going in Game (,, but they again couldn't get their of­fense going. 
For that they can thank Avery, who has shut them out on nine hits over 16 1-3 innings in a series that has already featured three 1-0 games -or onn more than in the previous 22 NL playoffs combined. 
''I've seen a lot of great pitch­ers -(Bob) Gibson, (Sandy) Koufax -and if Avery's not up there with them now, he soon will be," Miller said. 
'There's been some incrndibln baseball in this series," third baseman Steve Buechele said. "These have been incr<~dibly fun games to play in. but they must be miserable for the fans ... they're really gut-wrenching. This is the bnst playoff series in a long time." 
t\t least the pitching is. 
"If Avery's in the Ieagufl much longer, I'm going to develop a new disease -t\very-itis," Van Slykc said. "That's what we've had in this series -Poison Avery-itis." 
March of Dimes 
--iiBIRTH-DEFECTS FOUNDATION·-· 

19th 

wocruDodJruZ7 
Murphy! 
I love you
' .Ltwe, 411DIIillii!IIID> ~ 
~. z:>ad. z:>c:wtet ad e~ 
JJ1-d 

!=:::=:======================:d~~~~~~!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!l!l!!l.., 
David Barnard '91 (NO) Mary Ann Cenedella '91 (NO) 
Scott Esposito '89 (NO) Jim Fitzgerald '91 (NO) Ursula Garzia '91 (SMC) Simon Herbert '91 (NO) 

BAXTER 
COME JOIN OUR TEAM 
Mary Kay (Fanning) Ladone '88 (NO) 
Lou Mayle '88 (NO) 

Kathy (Baker) Miller '88 (NO) 
Scott Miller '90 (NO) 
Jim Post '89 (NO) 

Jennifer Racine '91 (SMC) 
Amy Raczkowski '91 (NO) John Souter '88 (NO) Dana Togni '89 (NO) J111 Tomko '89 (SMC) Guy Welsmantel '90 (NO) Dan Walsh '89 (NO) 
We have careers In: Accounting/Finance, Sales/Marketing, Operations and Information Systems. For more information please attend one of the following events. Don't forget to sign up for interviews through Career & Placement. 
* 
Career Fair Sponsered by Joint Engineering Council & Society of Women Engineers Wednesday, September 25, 11:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 

* 
Meet Baxter Night Sponsered by Baxter Healthcare Corporation Monday, October 28,7:00-9:00 p.m. 


Class 
continued from page 13 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. Eastern time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (6 t 6) g48·2665. 
Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23 Every Tuesday in October SEAMAISIN 
"EYES FOR YOU" Thank you! Who are you? 
Farmer Jim-Livestock not permitted in dorm. FART AT WILL 
••••• SHEL · SHEL Happy Birthday, Wild One I Love. your Evil Twin 
......................... 
HOORAY FOR THE MEN OF THE 
BOURGEOIS 

PRETTY BOYZ ULTIMATE FRISBEE STUDS bring it on Brian Daily intent! 
MCV, Who said anything about hands? How many bagels will fit? If Denny's doesn't have them, we do...in the kitchen. We heard you're awesome there! Cream cheese, butter, mayo, .... 
3 BCs 

Hey-Remember when we were in the long run and all inputs were variable? Wasn't that awesome? 

Gladieux 

TRAVEL DOMESTIC INTERNATIONAL CALL • COMPARE 
234-6636 1-BQ0-837-4523 

\ 
--------~-------~-~~--­
~-~-­
: 
;;;p;;;;ag;;;e;;;;;;;;;;16;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;=---;:~~~T:-h_e_O;;-b_s_e_rv_e_r-----:;--;---;--;;;-----;;-----T_hu_r-;;sd;-a~y;-,_o--;ct;-;o;-be_r_1_7_._19;-9_1_ 
SPORTS SHORTS 
Cunningham gives out braille football cards 

• PHILADELPHIA -Randall Cunningham gave some blind Philadelphia school children his new football card -in braille. 
"This is just great," Cunningham said. "It's amazing that they know what I've done. And they always say that they've 'seen' me. Like one kid said 'I saw you dive for that touchdown against the Giants.' 
"They're just normal kids. Just like everyone else." 

The other players on the braille cards are Warren Moon and Haywood Jeffires of Houston, Jerry Rice and Charles Haley of San Francisco, Barry Sanders of Detroit, Thurman Thomas of Buffalo and Derrick Thomas of Kansas City. 
Noah deciding who'll play against U.S. 

• LYON, France-Yannick Noah, the captain of France's Davis Cup team, is still thinking about choosing himself to play in the finals against the United States. 
Noah would not rule himself out, even after losing in the first round of the Lyon Grand Prix to Thierry Champion 6-4, 6­4, Tuesday night. 
"I have made some progress since my last match against Thierry," Noah said. ''I'm faster, better on defense and on the low balls." 
Champion is also a candidate for the team along with Fabrice Santoro, Arnaud Boetsch, Cedric Pioline and Henri Leconte. 
"Two or three will be disappointed," said Noah, who has not played much in the past year. 
Troubled Bengals activate lckey 

•CINCINNATI -Coach Sam Wyche was not anxious to activate Ickey Woods because the Cincinnati Bengals fullback did not have a standout practice since being cleared by doctors. 
But Woods was activated Tuesday in one of several moves that followed a meeting between Wyche and general manager Mike Brown. 
~---------------------------------------­
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Jack Trudeau, backup quarterback for the winless Indianapolis Colts, was put on injured re­serve today-following surgery on his right thumb. 
To fill his spot on the roster, the Colts re-signed quarterback Rusty Hilger, who was waived at the end of training camp in August. 
The surgery performed by Dr. Arthur Rettig on Tuesday re­paired torn ligaments Trudeau sustained on the outside of his right thumb when his passing hand struck a helmet in Sunday's 42-6 loss at Buffalo. 
Trudeau played in only two games this season, completing two of seven passes for 19 yards and no touchdowns. He was intercepted one time, on the play he injured his thumb. Today's move marked the third time in four years that Trudeau was put on JR. Both previous times were for knee injuries. 
It will be six to eight weeks before Trudeau will be able to throw in a competitive situa­tion. He left Methodist Hospital shortly after the surgery was performed, a hospital spokeswoman said. 
Colts' quarterback Trudeau sidelined with injury; Hilger signed to replace 
Smith leads Clippers over Hawks 
Clippers 112, Hawks 109 
ATLANTA (AP) -Charles Smith scored 18 of his 24 points and Tony Brown all 10 of his in the final period, leading the Los Angles Clippers to a 112-109 exhibition victory over the Atlanta Hawks on Wednesday night. 
Two free throws by Brown with 2 seconds to go clinched the victory for the Clippers after Atlanta's Dominique Wilkins had reduced the lead to 110­109 with a 3-pointer with four seconds left. Wilkins had 32 points. 
A rebound layup by Danny Manning with 1:07 left gave the Clippers a 107-102 lead, but Wilkins followed with a jumper and a tipin to make it 107-106. 
Free throws by Brown and Perry put the Clippers made it 110-106. 
The Hawks led 87-86 when a shot by Loy Vaught gave the Clippers an 88-87 lead with 
6:39 left. That was the first of 14 straight scores that either tied the game or put one team ahead. 
Vaught's layup with 1:54 left gave the Clippers the lead for good. 
Manning had 21 points for the Clippers, who also got 13 re­bounds from Smith. 
76ers 109, Magic 102 
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Ron Anderson and Hersey Hawkins scored 18 points each as the Philadelphia 76ers remained undefeated in preseason play, beating the Orlando Magic 109­102 Wednesday night. 

The 76ers had six players in double figures as they improved their preseason record to 3-0. 
Anderson was 5 for 8 from the floor, while Hawkins hit 6 of 11 shots, including all three 3­point attempts. 
The Magic was led by Morlon Wiley with 20 points. Terry Catledge added 18 points. 
Orlando led 57-53 on a tipin by Greg Kite with 7:08 remain­ing in the third quarter before Philadelphia went on a 13-2 surge to lead 66-59 two min­utes later. Hawkins scored 11 points in the spurt with three 3­pointers and a pair of free throws. 
The Sixers built a 95-80 cush­ion on a 3-pointer by Tharon Mayes with 7:13 to play. The Magic never made a serious run down the stretch, getting as close as seven points only in the final second on a dunk by Stanley Roberts. 
Cavaliers 104, Jazz 97 

GREENVILLE, N.C. (AP)­Craig Ehlo had 16 points, and the Cleveland Cavaliers put the game away during an 11-point run in the final period to re­main unbeaten in the preseason with a 104-97 victory Wednesday night over the Utah Jazz. 
Following a Cleveland timeout with 7:53 left, Mike Brown scored inside to pull Utah to 89­
87. Then the Cavaliers went on their decisive run behind four points by John Morton to make it 100-87 with just less than four minutes remaining. 
Rookie Terrell Brandon had 15 points for the Cavaliers (3-0). Larry Nance added 14 while Henry James had 11 and Chucky Brown 10. 
John Stockton had 19 points for the Jazz (1-2). Jeff Malone and Thurl Bailey added 16 points each. and Blue Edwards -playing in his collegiate arena at East Carolina University-had 14. 
The Cavaliers took their first lead with 6:55 left in the first half on a 3-point basket by Morton. Brandon closed the second half with two consecu­tive jumpers to help Cleveland build a 53-49 halftime advan­tage. 
The Jazz pulled to 53-51 after a jumper by Mark Eaton. But Cleveland took advantage of some cold shooting by the Jazz to build a 61-53 advantage. Brad Daugherty, who scored 10 of his 14 points in the second half. scored inside to make it 57-51. 
After Stockton hit a jumper to narrow the gap to 59-53, Cleveland got consecutive bas­kets from Brown, Brandon and Daugherty to make it 61-53 with just under nine minutes left in the quarter. 
Trudeau agonized many hours before agreeing to surgery. 
"The thumb feels fine," he said Tuesday morning begore going to the hospital. "I threw in the yard Monday to my brother, and I could barely tell anything was wrong. However, I've been told if I don't have surgery the thumb could become loose later this year or next and would inhibit my ability to throw." 
Trudeau's thumb will be in a cast two or three weeks. After the cast is removed, rehabilita­tion will take another three to five weeks. 
Hilger, in his sixth NFL season, was signed by Seattle after being waived by Indianapolis. He did not appear in any games with the Seahawks and was waived. 
The Colts (0-7) have just two other quarterbacks -starter Jeff George and backup Mark Herrmann. 
The Colts also re-signed de­fensive back Cornell Holloway today. Holloway was waived last month. 
Trudeau was concerned he would miss the rest of the sea­son because of the surgery. 
"My understanding is the team won't have any free moves to put me back on the active roster when I'm ready to play," he said. 
Each club is permitted five free moves during the season to transfer a player from the in­jured reserve list to the active roster. 
The Colts used one of those moves last week on offensive lineman William Schultz. They are expected to use the other four within the next month on tight end Pat Beach, offensive linemen Irv Pankey and Randy Dixon and safety Mike Prior. 
Beach, out the past four games with a shoulder and neck nerve problem, was placed on the practice roster Tuesday and is expected to be activated later this week. To prepare for the anticipated move, center Mark Cannon was waived Tuesday. 
Last year, Trudeau had recon­structive surgery on his left knee after being hit while scrambling Oct. 28 against Miami. In 1988, he had recon­structive surgery on his right left knee after being injured at Cleveland during the third week. 

Coming to Stepan Center 
November 19th 
The Bo Deans 
$8.00 ND/SMC Students 
Watch for further details 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 


.... ~----­
------------------------~------­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, October 17, 1991 
Rookie Nemchinov leads Rangers past Devils 4-2 
Rangers 4, Devils 2 
NEW YORK -Sergei Nemchinov scored twice in 20 seconds late in the second pe­riod as the New York Rangers broke a three-game losing streak by beating the New Jersey Devils 4-2 on Wednesday night. 
Mike Richter made 30 saves to record his first victory in three decisions for New York, which evened its record at 4-4-0. Nemchinov, a 27-year-old Soviet rookie, scored on a breakaway at 18:50 and beat Chris Terreri with a 35-footer at 19:10. 
-Mark Messier and Tony Amonte also scored for the Rangers. David Maley and Tom Chorske had goals for New Jersey, which has lost two straight after a 4-0-0 start. 
Canadiens 5, Sabres 1 
MONTREAL -Denis Savard scored twice as Montreal sur­vived the loss of star goaltender Patrick Roy and beat Buffalo. 
Roy, a two-time Vezina Trophy winner as the NHL's top goaltender, left the game 13:23 into the first period after taking a shot from Christian Ruuttu on the mask. His jaw appeared to be swelling as he left the ice. Roland Melanson, seeing his first action of the season, stopped 17 shots for the victory. 

Guy Charbonneau, John LeClair and Kirk Muller also scored as the line of Muller, Savard and Sylvain Turgeon connected three times for the Canadiens. Dave Snuggerud had Buffalo's only goal. 
Whalers 3, Jets 2 

WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) ­John Cullen and Pat Verbeek, Hartford's recently returned holdout duo, combined for six points as the Whalers defeated the Winnipeg Jets 3-2 on Wednesday night. 
Cullen and Verbeek each had a goal and two assists as the Whalers improved to 3-1-1. It was Hartford's second straight victory since the two high-scor­ing stars returned on Monday and third in a row overall. 
Cullen, a free agent, signed a four-year contract last Saturday while Verbeek, who walked out during training camp, will go to arbitration with his contract demands. 
Cullen, fifth in NHL scoring last season with 110 points, now has five points in two games. Verbeek, who scored against Montreal on Monday, has two goals and two assists. He led Hartford with 43 goals last season. 
Hartford defenseman Adam Burt and Winnipeg's Pat Elynuik exchanged goals 2:15 apart early in the first period. 
Burt's shot from the point, set up by Cullen and Verbeek, squeezed between the pads of goalie Stephane Beauregard and trickled across the goal line at 4:18. Elynuik lifted are­bound over Hartford's Kay Whitmore at 6:33. 
Cullen and Verbeek gave Hartford a 3-1 lead in the sec­ond period with power-play goals. 
Cullen swept a cross-crease pass under Beauregard at 6:50 for his first goal of the season and Verbeek scored from the same spot on a rebound with 26 seconds remaining in the pe­riod. 
Fredrik Olausson cut the deficit to one goal at 8:32 of the third period, jamming a loose puck under Whitmore, who made 36 saves. 
Gretzky rushes home to sick father 
HAMILTON, Ontario (AP)­Wayne Gretzky left the Los Angeles Kings Wednesday night to rush to the bedside of his fa­ther, who was hospitalized after being stricken with a brain aneurism. 
Walter Gretzky was in serious condition in Hamilton General Hospital and unconscious late Wednesday night, a hospital spokesman said. 
The elder Gretzky was paint­ing a house at the family's farm when he suddenly took ill, fam­ily friend Ron Finucan said. 
"Walter took a headache, got sick to his stomach and they rushed him to hospital," Finucan said. 
The farm is located in Canning, Ontario, about 10 miles west of Brantford, where Walter Gretzky lives. Brantford is about 20 miles from Hamilton. 

• 
' 
London $ttt• Brussels $155* Rome $300* Hons Ions Mts• 
Sydney $635* 
•FII'es «e each ww; from Olicago based on a rrundtrip purdlase. T5<es net included restrictions apply. Call for Olher 'Mlf'ldwide I destinations, both one ww; Cl'ld ra.r1dtrip. 
Council Trawl 
1153 N. Deabcm St, 2nd floor Olicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free Student Travel Catalog! 


"Our thoughts and prayers are with Wayne and his family," Kings owner Bruce McNall said in a statement prior to Los Angeles' game against San Jose on Wednesday night. 
"At this time, it is not known when Wayne will return to the lineup," the statement said. 
Gretzky, the NHL's all-time scoring leader, has no goals and five assists in five games and has been plagued with a sore back following an injury sustained in the Canada Cup last month. 
Walter Gretzky appeared healthy on Sunday when he at­tended the American League playoff games at the SkyDome in Toronto. 
"I was with Walter and (Gretzky's wife) Phyllis at the last Blue Jay game and he was absolutely enjoying himself," Finucan said. "He was in the pink, just as happy as he could be." , Walter Gretzky, who turned 53 last Tuesday, retired from Bell Canada six months ago. 
Also flying home Wednesday night were sons Keith, who plays professional hockey in San Diego, and Glen, who lives in Edmonton. Another son, Brent, was coming home from Belleville, Ontario, where he plays junior hockey. 

r--sPo_RlS_s_R_IEF_s___________, 
•The 
YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announcing its winter league. Anyone interested in forming a three-man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad at 654-8345. 

•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing, Sunday through Thursday until 5:00 p.m. ,at The Observer on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, for next day printing. Please write your brief, the days it is to be run, and your name and number. 

•Fellowship 
of Christian Athletes will be watching The Little Mermaid tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. Newcomers are welcome. For info on FCA, eall Mark Zoia at 283-1586. 

•ND/SMC 
students, faculty or staff participating in the Chicago Marathon: please report your times and place of finish to The Observer by Monday, the first class day after fall break. 


~Peat Marwick 
Management Consultants 
KPMG Peat Marwick Management Information System Consulting 
KPMG Peat Marwick's Government Setvices and Technology & Operations practices will be hosting an infonnational presentation and reception Thursday, October 17. The presentation will be held from 7:00p.m. to 9:00p.m. in the Alumni Room ofthe Morris Inn 
All candidates intetviewing with us on Friday, October 18 are strongly encouraged to attend this presentation. We would also like to invite any additional candidates interested in a career in consulting to attend the presentation. Candidates should have one of the following degrees: 
• 
BA-Arts and Letters, Computer Applications (CAPP) 

• 
BBA -Management, Management lnfonnation Systems 

• 
BS -Electrical Engineering, Computer Sequence 

• 
BS -Mathematics, Computer Concentration 

• 
MBA, Computer related undergraduate 


Contact Career and Placement Services for more infonnation about KPMG Peat Marwick. 
KPMG Peat Marwick is an equal opportunity employer. 
Thursday, October 17, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE fAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER .. 
Bl<:. DE~L ~ W~ CAI<'i:S? l''IE SUN \-I\JNDR.9:>S c::F 1\JR\\..ES! I'Q:::l~.b.Bl~ MilLioNS~ 
'f.li{O WANIS TD SH. A.~"TI1ER 
v\JMB Ol' \\JR\lE? 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 


CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
Thursday 
6 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all seniors majoring in Math, Finance, Economics, and Philosophy with Math who are interested in discovering career opportunities with Aetna Life and Casualty (Actuarial). Sorin Room, LaFortune Student Center. 
7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all Accountancy students interested in discovering career opportunities with Aetna Life and Casualty (Audit). Anyone interested is invited and encouraged to attend. Dooley Room, LaFortune. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 
4 p.m. Kellogg Lecture, "Democratic Consolidation in Pakistan: A • Comparison of the Approaches of Sulfikar and Benazir Bhuto," Cris Toffolo. Room C103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
4 p.m. Program in History and Philosophy of Science, Lecture, "The Reward of Science: The Nobel Syndrome," Max Dresden, Stanford University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture, "Conflicting Processes in Ileinrieh Schenker's Tonwille," Joseph Lubben. Room 124, Crowley Hall of Music. ·.. 
8 p.m. Molony Lecture, "Labor and the Environment," Barry Commoner, director, Center for the Biology of Natural Systems, City University, NY (CUNY). Auditorium, Hayes-Healy. 
ACROSS -46 Part of NCAA (abbr.) 12 Braz i1 resort 47 Distribute, as 13 Banking abbrevi-8 p.m. Lecture, "Freshest Advice and Dying Words: 18th Century 
1 Disarrange, as hair cards (2 wds.) ation 

Broadsheets in Trinity College Library," Charles Benson. keeper of
5 Given to over-48 Jesus inscription 14 Metric measures 
Early Printed Books Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. Department of 
simplification 49 Armed sea mollusks (abbr.) 15 Arrow poison 50 Those present 20 First lady Special Collections, Hesburgh Center. 16 Creating enmity 55 Opera so 1 o 24 Oppos'i te of ques. 17 Mardi -56 Ben Hur, e.g. 25 1961 "Best Actress" 18 Asian rats 57 Noticed (2 wds.) 
MENU
19 "-Ske lter" 58 One way to determine 26 Busy 

21 Call's partner 50-Acr9SS (2 wds.) 27 Hurdy-gurdy (2 wds.) 
22 Steal 59 Ending for gliss 29 TV Tarzan, Ron----Notre Dame 
23 Exist 30 ----Sack 
24 Harmful snakes DOWN 32 "-a boy!" 

Stir Fry Beef and Vegetables
28 "Fiddler on the 33 -set Roof" matchmaker 1 Former cartoon show 35 Cousteau's domain Cajun Chicken Breast 
......

29 Overhead railroads {2 wds.) 36 "-Were a Rich Rotini with Spring Vegetables 30 Equine sound 2 Impromptu Man ... " 
Sauteed Zucchini and Tomatoes
31 Racing-type wheels 3 Packaging need 39 Card game32 State abbreviation (2 wds.) 41 As -pin 33 Quartz variety 4 Six-line stanzas 43 Prefix for sphere34 Table scrap 5 Fencing sword 44 -room Saint Mary's 35 At an impasse 6 Ending for pay 46 Go on ----(ramble) 37 Tend the garden 7 They have flippers 47 Activists 
Hoast Turkey and Gravy
38 Word employments (2 wds.) 48 "What's ----for 
40 Toward the stern 8 Jewish elementary me?" Jumbo Burger 
41 Kind schools 50 Part of CPA (abbr.) Deli Bar 
42 Brown pigment 9 Sure of being won 51 However, for short 
Cheese Enchiladas
43 --fi (2 wds.) 52 Upsilon's neighbor
44 Respond to 10 "-the Knife" 53 Sea eagle
45 First garden 11 Siouan 54 Curved letter 


Sports 
page 20 Thursday, October 17, 1991 
One run was enough for Avery and the Braves 
"This does not surprise me." stole second and took third on a
Olson's two-out hit scores Gant in· 
Avery shut out Pittsburgh on groundout. But Gant was easily three hits through eight innings thrown out at the plate by
top of ninth to give Braves victory 
for a playoff record 16 1-3 shortstop Jay Bell on Olson's consecutive scoreless innings two-hopper with the infield in. PITTSBURGH (AP) -The Olson, who failed to get a 
and Alejandro Pena relieved to Lonnie Smith doubled with one Atlanta Braves finally scored, runner home from third base in . 
start the ninth. Pinch hitter out in the eighth but was 
and again that was all Steve the seventh inning, decided the 
Gary Varsho led off with a stranded when Jeff Treadway
Avery needed. third 1-0 game in this series. 
sinking single, was sacrificed to grounded out and NL battingAvery pitched like a ~1-year There had been just four previ­second and took third on a two­champion Terry Pendleton flied veteran rather than a 21-year­ous 1-0 games in the 22-year out wild pitch to Andy Van out, leaving a runner in scoringold and the Braves broke their history of the NL playoffs and 
Slyke. position for the fourth time in record scoreless streak at 26 never before in 137 postseason But Pei1a got his third save of the game.
innings on Greg Olson's two-out series had there been three 1-0 the series when, as he did in Avery struck out the side in double in the ninth off Doug decisions. "We felt we would Game 2, he stranded the tying the first inning, as he did last Drabek, beating the Pittsburgh score, sometime," Gant said. 
Doug Drabek run at third base in the ninth week, and fanned five of the 
Pirates 1-0 Wednesday night "There was a lot of tension on inning, getting Van Slyke to look first six batters. Don Slaught led and forcing the NL playoffs to a the bench. Things were not go­"I don't think there's any more at a changeup for strike three. off the third with a single to left 
seventh game. ing our way. But we felt, with pressure than there was Avery allowed just nine hits field, making him one of the few Ron Gant stomped on home Steve pitching, one run would tonight," Braves manager and struck out 17 in his two Pirates to pull Avery, but was 
plate and stared at it after he be enough." Bobby Cox said. 
outings. He is 2-0 in the play­easily thrown out when he tried scored, as if to stamp out He was right and now, John The Pirates have played five offs, 4-0 against the Pirates this to turn it into a double. 
Atlanta's frustration. He be­Smaltz, basebail's winningest deciding Game 7s in their post­season and 20-8 overall. Avery worked around a leadoff came the first Brave to get pitcher since the All-Star break, season history and won every "I was so nervous sitting on walk to Bobby Bonilla in the across -without missing third will try to extend Atlanta's im­time, all in the World Series. 
the bench, I couldn't take it," fifth and did not allow another base -since the first inning of probable season when he faces "The two teams that get to the Avery said. "I don't know if I hit until Jose Lind began the Game 4, and ended their seem­20-game winner John Smiley on playoffs get there because they was shaking because it was sixth by slicing a single to right.
ingly endless string of missed Thursday night in a rematch of have good pitching," Pittsburgh freezing or because l was so Drabek was the next batter and 
opportunities. Game 3 starters. manager Jim Leyland said. 
nervous." Pirates manager Jim Leyland · While Avery was overpowering put on the sacrifice -to get a Pittsburgh with fastballs, runner to second, and prevent Drabek battled the Braves with Drabek from swinging away breaking balls. and getting any funny ideas 
Drabek showed no ill effects of about running around the the hamstring he strained bases. running out a hit in Game 1 and It was the Braves' shot at shut down Atlanta on six hits showing good defense, however, for eight innings. as catcher Olson made a diving 
But in the ninth, Gant drew a catch on Drabek's popped up one-out walk, stole his playoff bunt in front of the plate, ai1d record sixth base of the series Sid Bream made a nifty turn at with two out and scored on first for a 3-6-3 double play on Olson's double down the left-. Gary Hedus' grounder. field line. While Avery was overpowering 
"In the seventh inning·. I had a the Pirates, Drabek was deceiv­guy on third with one out and ing the Braves. he beat me inside with a fast­Atlanta managed only four hits ball," Olson said. "I went up to through six innings off Drabek's the plate and I told myself that off-speed pitches. Plus, the he wasn't going to beat me with Braves were faced with a bad a fastball again. He threw me a omen from the start. fastball and I got it by Smith Dpened the game with a Buechele." double off third baseman Steve 
The Braves were 1-for-26 with Buechele's glove and took third runners in scoring position on a groundout by Treadway, during their NL-record shutout playing for the first time in the streak, breaking the mark of 22 series aftpr being sidelined with shutout innings by St. Louis a sore hand. With Pittsburgh's pitchers against san Francisco infield playing back and willing in 1987. The AL record is 30 to trade an early run for an out, scoreless innings, done by Pendleton hit a foul pop and Oakland pitchers to Baltimore David Justice grounded out. in 1974. Justice missPd third base in 
The Braves, who stranded a the key play in Atlanta's 1-0 runner on third base with one loss in Game 5. Smith remem­out in the third, blew two big bered to tag second base in the 
Notre Dame landed its first top 10 recruiting class ever, and things look promising for another successful chances much later. In the sev­third inning, but overslid the season. enth, Gant led off with a single, bag and was caught stealing. 
Belles scrimmage IUSB, 
Irish freshmen are rated third best 
Finally, Notre Dame is ---------Only LSU and the University of Miami bested 
look toward post-season
getting some 
Notre Dame on the recruiting trail. Those 
recognition. teams, however, benefitted from junior college
-: 
Observer Staff Report Dalsaso's third score came on a
Yes, I know, most transfers, whereas Notre Dame's recruits were feed from Kelly Cook. 
people would never all freshmen. 
The Saint Mary's soccer team Coming off an impressive 8-0
dream of a team under The Irish landed nine quality freshmen, all of (7 -2-2) faces the Indiana victory against Albion College
the Dome not getting who were All-State first team players in high University at South Bend team last Friday, coach Tom Vanit's share of the school. Three of the freshmen were drafted by today at 3:30 p.m. at Saint Meter's squad is in serious con­limelight. This is not the major league teams. 
Mary's. tention for its much-desired 
case, however, for the Shortstop Steve Verduzco of St. Jose, 
Originally scheduled to be a playoff birth. 
Anthony King 

"no respect" Notre California was a fifth round selection of the regulation match, the game will "I hope we'll get a post-sea­Dame baseball team. Philadelphia Phillies. Pitcher Tim Kr.aus of 
instead be played as a scrim­son bid," commented senior
Assistant Sports 

The Irish have quietly Cincinnati was an eleventh round draft pick by mage. This alteration is due to Greer Gilliland. "We did lose to
Editor

gone about their the San Francisco Giants. Backup quarterback the fact that I.U.S.B. was a some Division I teams, but webusiness, compiling one -------­and shortstop Paul Failla of Alleghany, Division III team when the also showed that we can playof the best records in Division I baseball in the Pennsylvania was chosen in the seventh round match was booked, but has with them. Since I've been herepast two years and knocking off top rated by the Kansas City Royals organization. 
since been relegated to club we had a winning season where
teams such as Louisiana State, Texas and Other standout freshmen are catcher Bob 
status. we received a post-season bid. 
Miami. Yet they were passed over in the NCAA LiSanti, pitcher Craig Allen, shortstop Craig In the scrimmage, the Belles tourney, despite their excellent record and DeSensi, and second baseman Casey Clevenger. 
are hoping to sharpen their "Last year we also had a
their tough schedule. Lower ranked teams with skills and continue their drive winning record and were evenless impressive records made the tourney while The freshmen should make an immediate for a post-season bid. better. So we are looking for a

the unheralded Irish were forced to sit at impact in the upcoming season, and help to 
The Belles are led by seniors bid this year. Our chances are
home. continue the recent success of the Irish. Add Stacy Winget and Megan looking positive, but we justThe well kept secret in Jake Kline Field has them to the current nucleus of last year's suc­Dalsaso. Winget, a forward, hope it goes in our favor."
leaked out. however. The 1991 baseball re­cessful unit and this year's team stacks up with scored a goal in Saint Mary's The Belles will return earlycruiting ratings are out and for the first time in any team in the country. The 1992 baseball recent 4-0 victory over the from the fall break for a FridayNotre Dame history the Irish have landed a top season should prove to be an exciting one, as University of Chicago. Dalsaso practice, before hitting the road10 recruiting class. The freshman class has this team journeys toward national prominence netted the other three goals, to face Hockford College onbeen rated as the number three recruiting and a NCAA bid. Don't be surprised this spring, two of which were unassisted. Sunday, October 27. 
class in NCAA Division I by Collegiate Baseball. you have been warned. 




