
~~t~£~ 
IU2•ltf2 

. i!f·-­

eObserver *
II SCIUICENUNNIAL 
Samt Mary's Collcg~ 
NOTRE DAM F. •I NIJIANA 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1991 
[No. 'i] 
VOL. XXIV NO.8
• 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . 

Roemer says US has no obligation to Soviet Union 
By SHANNON RYAN 
News Writer 
Congressman Tim Roemer re­solved that the United States has no obligation to send mon­etary aid to the Soviet Union in an open forum meeting at Mishawaka City Hall last night. 
wSeeing the Communist Party outlawed will have historical and monumental consequences for the world," said Hoerner. Yet Hoerner, who voted against the 25 billion dollar foreign aid bill earlier this year, stressed that we need to know more be­fore sending American tax dollars. 
uFirst, we need to determine whether we are dealing with a central authority or each indi­vidual republic," Roemer said. Mis there a private sector? We need to address the convertabil­ity of the ruble," he said. 
uwe need to see some anti­quated laws ... updated through legislative reform. And we cannot shine a spotlight on Gorbachev alone," said Roemer. 
Hoerner expressed primary interest in a domestic agenda. uSome people are talking mas­sive aid in eastern Europe and Kuwait... I think people in this country are ready for us to start meeting the challenges here." 
wlf we are going to help foster democracy [in other parts of the world], we need a strong economy to do that," Roemer said. He urged the implementa-



"Americans need to stay fering," he said. competitive ... to have the bril­He expressed dissatisfaction liance not only to invent, but to with the presidentially-imposed get the jobs from the invention," ceiling on domestic spending.he said. MD on't let people say "I don't want to decimate our we're only gonna do it with a defense system," said Roemer, Balanced Budget Amendment." who voted against the Gulf War. 
Despite the fact that Roemer "We still have some concerns Is an original co-sponsor of the with nuclear weapons In the amendment, he said it "would Soviet Union. But If the Presi­not be honest If I said that [the dent can declare a state of amendment) would do it." emergency In Bangladesh ... he 
Roemer also addressed his should be able to declare a recent opposition to the space state of emergency right here station. "I can't see building a for the people going through 40 million dollar pipeline to rough times." space when our pipeline to Roemer fielded questions on schools is leaking children, our varied topics such as pipeline to roads is leaking as­phalt and our pipeline to the elderly is leaking pain and suf-see ROEMER/page 4 
Baltics to gain independence 
VILNIUS, Lithuania (AP) -session In Moscow as an ob­dence decrees for each republic Soviet President Mikhail Gor­server, said Wednesday that and they will be published "the bachev will grant independence Baltic representatives drafted day after the closing of this to the Battles shortly, ending 51 an independence declaration at congress," Cekuolis said. years of occupation, officials Gorbachev's request and he ap­The congtess may end Thurs­said Wednesday. proved the general idea after he day, which would mean the de­
Senior American and British read it. crees could be published on envoys re-established diplo­Cekuolis said the draft would Friday. Former Gorbachev aide matic links in the Baltics on annul the 1940 Soviet annexa­Alexander Yakovlev confirmed Wednesday, joining a band­tion of the Baltics while leaving Cekoulis'account. wagon that has brought dozens them with Soviet troops sta­There was no confirmation of top Western officials here tioned on their territory, as they from Gorbachev's office. since the abortive coup against were at the beginning of World Latvian President Anatolijs Gorbachev hastened the col­War II. Gorbunovs said "the draft has lapse of central Soviet rule. While Baltic leaders have been presented by the 
With about 50 governments been pressing for the departure representatives of Latvia" but now recognizing their indepen­of the hated Soviet Interior he said he had no Information dence, the Baltic republics of Ministry troops, they have been about Gorbachev's decree, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia less adamant about withdrawal according to a statement Issued have been waiting anxiously for of army forces. At least one, by Gorbunovs' aide, Karina Gorbachev to follow suit. Latvia, has begun negotiations Petersone. 
Algimantas Cekuolls, a former with the Kremlin on the possi­In Vilnius, Lithuanian Presi­Soviet lawmaker from bility of letting some troops stay dent Vytautas Landsbergis told Lithuania who is attending the in the republic. Congress of People's Deputies Gorbachev will issue indepen­
see SOVIET/page 4 
More money spent on weapons cleanup 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The least 10 percent a year through billion. The facility has been Energy Department anticipates fiScal1997. closed because of spending as much as $38 billion The biggest expenditure -an environmental and safety for environmental cleanup at estimated $9.4 billion from concerns, but Is expected to the government's atomic fiScal 1993 through 1997 -will resume production next year. weapons plants over five years, go to the Hanford weapons According to congressional a sharp increase that indicates facility near Richland, Wash., sources and documents, the a shift from weapons where radioactive and toxic administration anticipates production to cleanup. wastes have contaminated the spending between $28 billion 
The spending estimates were soil, groundwater and surface and $38 billion during fiscal included in the department's water. years 1993 through 1997 on newly revised five-year plan for A major challenge at the both environmental cleanup continuing the massive cleanup 360,000-acre Hanford complex and waste management at the .' of the DOE's weapons facilities Is how to deal with a mixture of weapons facilities. that stretch across 13 states unknown radioactive wastes In Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, said from South Carolina to storage tanks. Some scientists the funding levels in the five­Washington. have said special care must be year blueprint provide the first 
The cleanup is expected to taken to prevent some of the indication of a definite shift take decades. tanh from exploding. from weapons production to 
Details of the Bush Other sites that will be the cleanup activities. administration's latest five-year focus of major cleanup Glenn, chairman of the Senate blueprint for the cleanup were spending are: Government Affairs Committee, obtained Wednesday from -The Savannah River has closely followed the cleanup congressional sources. The DOE complex near Aiken, S.C., effort, especially at the Fernald planned to release the proposal where spending will range from facility. Thursday. $3.2 billion to $5.2 billion over The latest Energy Department 
The massive cleanup is the the five-year period. blueprint Is "a greatly improved result of decades of -The Oak Ridge complex In five-year spending plan," Glenn environmental and safety Tennessee, where expenditures said in a statement, but added neglect at facilities that for four will be at least $2.9 billion. that the department "stlll has ... decades manufactured the -The Fernald complex In no real long-term cleanup atomic warheads and bombs southwest Ohio, where cleanup strategies" such as how to that were an integral part of the efforts are expected to cost protect the public and workers Cold War. between $2.4 billion to $2.9 at DOE facilities. 
The DOE documents indicated billion. Fernald, which once In many cases, the cleanup the department has more than processed uranium, has focused Includes dealing with thousands 1,000 employees involved in exclusively on cleanup for more of tons of contaminated earth, dealing with cleanup issues -than a year. contaminated groundwater and four times as many as two years -The Rocky Flats weapons surface water and disposal of 
W~h the restoration of his portra~. Father Edward Sorin continues to ago -and expects cleanup and plant near De-nver, where aging storage tanks that hold be seen as a guiding force in the Notre Dame commun~y. waste management spending is expected to range unknown mixtures , of expenditures to increase at from $886 million to $1.3 radioactive and toxic chemicals. 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

here 1s something for everyone 
The word "chaos" proves to be an appropriate word for the first few weeks of school. You need to buy ten million books for your handful of classes. Everyone has new num­bers that you diligently try Amy GreenwOOd to remember. You have to SMC News Editor get things like new library bar codes, dining hall stickers, lftllilhHx eHmhi­nations, parking decals, etc. The list continues. These wearisome tasks also include a personal favorite-long lines. As you angrily mutter to yourself about the stupidity of the task itself, you are standing in a line that is three hours long. Once you have taken care of all these re­sponsibilities you feel an overwhelming sense o relief. You feel like climbing to the top of the dome and shouting, "Free at last!" Think again folks. People who are very determined will bombard you and your mailbox with solicitations to join every club and organization imaginable. Why wait for these member-hungry orga­nizations to hunt you down? Go fmd them at Activities Night! From 8-10pm tonight at SMC in Angela Athletic Facility where every group imaginable will be represented. No matter what your interest is, you will fmd a group that suits you. Student Government, Spanish Club, Women for the Environment are just some examples of the clubs you can join. (All advertising kickbacks can be made payable to Amy Greenwood c/o The Observer). Of course, you must stop by the Observer table and sign up to be part of the crazy gang that call themselves the Observer staff. (Yes, this plug is biased, I'll admit it.) Hey, Activities Night does not exist for freshmen only. Upperclassmen can go, too. Although you may be over the hill now (at 20 or 21), it is never too late to get involved. Maybe the younger generation can benefit from your infinite wisdom. Instead of throwing the fliers from your mailbox or Activities Night into your circular file, take some time to read them and go to a meeting or two. You could meet a cute member of the opposite sex. While stimulating your social life proves to be a great motivation for involvement, there are some other interesting ones: 
1) Who wants to study all the time? 

2) You get more mail and feel important. 
3) You can say you did something besides drink beer in college. 
4) Your parents think that you are busy and that college is well worth all the money they pay for it. 
5) Activities look great on a resume. 
6) You become "well-rounded." 

7) Most clubs have meetings with free food. Of course, these are not the only reasons. You can meet some pretty cool people (like those nuts at the Observer). Getting involved can be very rewarding so don't be a do-nothing, unsociable, unmotivated, pur­poseless introvert. GET INVOLVED!Il 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the suthor and not necessarily those o The Observer. 
News Lauren Aquino Jahnelle Harrigan Julie Barrett Fran Moyer Pat Moran Sports Rolando de Aguiar VIewpoint Rich Riley Graphics Ann-Maire Conrado 


Productions 
Cheryl Moser Scoreboard Kathy Fong Rich Kurz 
Illustrations 
Mike Scrudato 

Jake Frost 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

Democrats may have their candidate 
•LINCOLN, Neb.-Sen. Bob Kerrey said Wednesday he would announce later this month whether he will seek the 1992 Democratic presidential nomination, with all signs suggesting he will enter the race. In Washington, Kerrey has been telling Democratic offi­cials in private that he intends to run and aides are re­cruiting campaign workers. But the cryptic wording of his two-sentence statement leaves him wiggle room should he decide not to run. 
Noriega stands alone on drug trial 

•MIAMI-Manuel Noriega will face drug trafficking charges alone after the remaining co-defendant in his drug and racketeering trial pleaded guilty today. Ac­cused drug pilot Daniel Miranda will face a maximum 30-month sentence, will receive a permanent U.S. visa and have his pilot's license restored under the plea bargain, said his attorney, Michael O'Kane. The plea came just before final pretrial motions were to be heard this morning by U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler, with jury selection scheduled for Thursday. 
Of INTEREST 

•For 
those who love to dance and would like to dance at Notre Dame, there will be an organizational meeting tonight in the basement of Farley Hall. For more information, call Kathy at 283-3429. 

•volunteers 
are needed to tutor adults at the Center for Basic Learning Skills in South Bend one morning a week. There is an organizational m~eting tonight in the Center for Social Concerns lounge. If you have any questions call Dianne at 283-4813. 


MARKET UPDATE 


oday, sunny with a high of 79 and lows in the 50s. Friday, showers possible, 
high of 77.  
H  L  
8666  
86  68  
7050  
78  62  
Chicago  79  60  
Dallas-Ft.Worth 88  71  
84  54  
79  58  
88  75  
88  72  
80  59  
London  73  53  
Los Angeles  82  65  
Madrid  68  43  
M1ami Beach  90  n  
Moscow  73  48  
New York  82  65  
Paris  75  54  
Philadelphia  82  64  
Rome  86  64  
St. Louis  82  63  
San Francisco  74  58  
Seattle  78  55  
South Bend  79  58  
89  76  
....·.:  

Convicted mother awaits sentencing 
•HOUSTON -A woman convicted of trying to hire a man to kill the mother of her daughter's rival for a cheerleading squad begged a jury today to give her probation rather than life in prison, saying she'd been punished enough. Jurors deliberated about six hours Tuesday before convicting Wanda Holloway, 37, of Channelview, of solicitation of murder. Prosecutors ar­gued that Mrs. Holloway wanted Verna Heath killed in hopes that Mrs. Heath's daughter, Amber, would be too upset to compete in cheerleader tryouts against Mrs. Holloway's daughter, Shanna Harper. 
New pregnancy test developed 
•BOSTON -A new test can accurately reveal whether contractions during pregnancy are truly the start of labor or simply false alarms. If approved for routine use, the test should allow doctors to begin therapy more quickly so they can stop early labor and prevent premature births. Its maker hopes the test will be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration some time next year and says it will cost about $25. 
•off-campus students on the waiting list for on­campus housing should inform Student Residences of your local phone number and address. 
•current developments in the Soviet Union will be discussed at the first meeting of the Soviet Studies Reading Group today in Declo 134. This is not a lecture course. Copies of the reading can be obtained in the Government Office or the Reserve Reading Room. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1903: In Korea Japanese force Russians to give up Mukden. 

• 
In 1915: In Switzerland European Socialists meet in Zimmerwald to discuss stance on war. 

• 
In 1934: Hitler predicts Reich will survive for 1,000 years. 

• 
In 1953: Ike announces a $45 million grant to Iran. 

• 
Ten years ago: A ten-mile tunnel opens in Switzerland, the world's longest, linking Goschenen and Airolo. 


,­
Thursday, September 5, 1991 
Pro-Thomas ad is decried by President 

is looking for an enthusiastic student to fill the following position: 
Assistant News Editor 
To apply, or for further information, contact: Monica Yant, 239-5303 Applications will be due Friday, September 6. 


WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush on Wednesday de­cried a slashing TV ad that at­tacks liberal senators expected to oppose Supreme Court nom­inee Clarence Thomas, calling it "offensive" and "totally coun­terproductive." 
Administration officials con­tacted Democratic Sens. Ed­ward Kennedy, Joseph Biden and Alan Cranston, whose ethics were questioned in the 60-second commercial, as the White House sought to blunt comparisons with Bush's 1988 Willie Horton campaign ad con­troversy. 
Officials telephoned the sena­tors "and expressed our con­cern over the ad," which was sponsored by two groups, Con­servative Victory Committee and Citizens United, said White House spokeswoman Judy Smith. 
The three senators declined comment through aides. 
Smith said the White House had no advance word from the ad sponsors but had heard from other sources that a negative ad was in the works. The administration was contacted by a separate group sponsoring a milder pro-Thomas ad that does not attack any senators and neither encouraged nor discouraged that effort, she said. 
The White House moved quickly to rebuff any suggestion it may have tacitly approved the attack ad, as Bush was accused of doing in the Willie Horton case during the 1988 presidential campaign. 
Facing allegations of racism in that earlier episode, the Bush campaign disavowed any con­nection with an independent political group's TV ad showing a picture of Horton, a black convicted murderer who brutal­ized a Maryland couple while on furlough from a prison in. Democratic Gov. Michael Dukakis' home state of Mas­sachusetts. 
Bush himself made a major anti-crime campaign issue of Horton and furloughs but did not use Horton's photo. 
Democratic National Commit­tee Chairman Ron Brown on Wednesday suggested Bush was letting others conduct a "gutter campaign." He said in a CNN interview that Bush should di­rect "his allies" to "get this garbage ofT the air." · 
The president, addressing the question of whether the new Thomas ad attacking senators can help win confirmation, said, "It doesn't help in my view." 
White House officials pri­vately said it could only hurt Thomas to attack key members of the Senate Judiciary Commit­tee who will hold confirmation hearings on Thomas beginning next week. 
The ad's sponsors issued a news release saying they would "hold off on any further activ­ity" if "those left wing individ­uals and organizations and their patrons in the United States Senate" who opposed the 1987 Robert Bork nomination to the high court would sign an agreement· to refrain from advertisinl!' against Thomas. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey
Awe-struck by art 

Student ponders the contrast between the modern art in front of the Riley Art Building and the more conservative archnecture of South Quad. 

Source: American Insurance Services Group Inc. AP/Aian Baseden 
Smoke draws the line of death in fire 
HAMLET, N.C. (AP)-When the screaming started, Carolyn Rainwater was "stripping tenders," pulling ribbons of white meat off chicken breasts for processing. When the screaming grew louder, she looked up and saw the smoke. 
"It was the blackest smoke I had ever seen in my life," said the 50-year-old grandmother, one of the few workers to escape serious injury when deadly smoke from a flash fire raced through the Imperial Foods Co. plant Tuesday morning . 
Twenty-five people were killed, 49 were injured . 
The boundary of life and death was set by the billowing wall of toxic smoke. Those who worked in the front of the building were able to escape through a main entrance. Those in the back were trapped between the poisonous fumes and doors locked, employees say, to prevent pilferage. 
The smoke created panic, then chaos. It chased some workers into room-size coolers where they froze. It smothered others as they groped, gasping in the dark for escape. Friends and co-workers died together in neat clumps on the factory floor. 
"In a fire of this nature people congregate together out of fear," said Hamlet Fire Chief David Fuller. "That's where they died." 
There were 90 workers in 

Imperial Foods, a 30,000 square-foot a collection of separate adjoining structures surrounded by a red brick facade. Once an ice cream factory, Imperial Foods now produces nuggets and other chicken products for Shoney's, Wendy's and other fast food restaurants. 
Workers and fire officials say the plant was a maze of large rooms separated by moveable walls. Workers and their product moved through the plant, from front to the rear, as the chicken was cut, cleaned, cooked and packaged, then nnally frozen. 
Doors in the rear of the plant were locked, workers said. Employees say the management had complained someone was stealing chicken. Some workers were troubled by locked doors, but with jobs, even those paying $5.50 an hour, a commodity in this small community, no one mentioned their fears. 
"People didn't raise them because they were afraid they might lose their jobs," said Elaine Griffin, a worker who escaped out the front door. 
Sometime after 8 a.m., a hydraulic line ruptured spewing cooking oil into flames heating a 26-foot-long fat fryer in the middle of the plant. 
Fuller said soaring flames ignited insulating material in the roof, adding more toxic 
The smoke spread quickly, blocking the way to the front exit. Fuller said one survivor told him he was engulfed by the smoke as he ran full speed to the rear of the plant. 
Rainwater found herself a member of a panicked mob running to a back door as the lights went out. 
Rainwater ran to a loading dock blocked by a tractor­trailer, she and two others went into the trailer and started pounding on the walls. Before someone finally moved the truck, others In the crowd panicked . 
"They turned toward the front, toward the smoke," she said . 
Fuller said several employees sought sanctuary behind the heavy metal doors of two huge flash freezers on either side of the plant. Dressed for the warm Carolina summer day, they quickly froze in temperatures as low as minus 28 degrees. 
Firefighters, breathing air through bright yellow air packs on their backs, fought their way inside. The fire was quickly extinguished, but the smoke and the darkness slowed rescuers. 
"It was like closing your eyes and putting your hands over your face," said Fire Capt. Calvin White. "Except for an occasional patch of llght, you 
Tuesday's 7 a.m. shift at fumes to the oil smoke. couldn't see." 
page 4 The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1991 
Soviet 
continued from page 1 
reporters: "I've seen (the draft). I've seen many of them." He refused further comment. 
A draft decree circulating in the Lithuanian parliament and obtained by The Associated Press said the Soviet Union would "consider as renewed the state of independence of these countries" which were forcibly absorbed by the Soviet Union. 
It also instructs the Soviet Foreign Ministry to re-establish ties with the three countries. 
The Congress had been ex­pected to consider Baltic inde­pendence, but Gorbachev with­drew the issue from the agenda. He apparently feared he could not get the necessary two-thirds vote to annul the in­corporation of the Baltics, car-
SECURITY BEAT 
ried out in 1940 as part of a secret Soviet pact with Nazi Germany. 
"I believe signing a decree is the only way possible now," Gorbunovs said. "Those consti­tutional ways offered previously would not work today and to issue a decree ... would be the only possible solution for Mr. Gorbachev, saving his honor." 
President Bush recognized Baltic independence on Monday, a move seen here as the final affirmation of their break from the Soviet Union. 
The United States, Britain, France and other Western countries never officially rec­ognized the Soviet Union's forced absorption of the Baltics, but had withheld formal recognition out of consideration for Gorbachev, who opposed it. 
Curtis Kamman, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian affairs, 
Fiance is convicted of helping murderer escape 

FOND DU LAC, Wis. (AP) -A jury Wednesday convicted a man of helping his fiancee, a former Playboy club waitress and policewoman, escape from prison where she was serving a life term for murder. 
Dominic Gugliatto's romance and trek to Canada with Lawrencia Bembenek became material for tabloid television. 
Bembenek, 33, a former cal­endar model fired from the po­lice force for lying, was con­victed of killing her detective husband's ex-wife in 1981 in Milwaukee. She has vehemently maintained her innocence. 
Bembenek, nicknamed "Bambi" by supporters who believe she's innocent, is fight­ing efforts to return her to the United States. She claims she was framed by vindictive former colleagues, and is trying to convince an immigration judge in Toronto that she de­serves political asylum. 
The couple were captured Oct. 17, 1990, in Thunder Bay, Ontario, when a tourist recog­nized them working in a and British Foreign Office Minister Douglas Hogg were making diplomatic rounds in the Baltics Wednesday. 
Kamman held talks with Estonian Foreign Minister Len­nart Meri, lunched with Presi­dent Arnold Ruutel, and was scheduled to visit both Latvia and Lithuania on Thursday. Hogg met Landsbergis in Vil­nius, then flew to Latvia and was scheduled to travel to Estonia on Thursday. 
Kamman said he and Meri agreed that the U.S. Embassy in Estonia would be headed by an ambassador. "We will have some senior people sent over in the near future" to work out details and look for an embassy building, the U.S. envoy said. 
Hogg said Britain intends to send an ambassador by the end of the year. 
restaurant after watching a segment on the television crime show "America's Most Wanted." 
Gugliatto, 36, a divorced fa­ther of three who worked at a Milwaukee lawn mower factory, was deported to Wisconsin a 


month after his arrest and .-~~~-----..-.~~-----------•
jii~.nt most of the last year in 
After the defense rested with­out calling witnesses, a Fond du Lac County Circuit Court jury deliberated less than 90 minutes before finding Gugli­
atto guilty of aiding and abet­
ting a prison escape. 
He faces up to five years in 
prison and $10,000 in fmes. 
Defense attorney Robert Sos-nay said Gugliatto was disap­pointed by the verdict and 
questioned whether his trial 
:U~o~~£~~dB~~~~:eE.ublicity 
According to testimony in the two-day trial, Bembenek escaped July 15, 1990, through a laundry room window at the Taycheedah women's prison near Fond du Lac. 
single-parent families. "We can't say we have no

Roemer 
obligation to other cultures... but there is a pendulum of

continued from page 1 
progress and stability that healthcare, special education, swings ... and shows us what unemployment benefits and we can afford and achieve." 
Flower Delivery: 7 Days
R 
~ 

~ y ttl 4-P"" L.
@ ~ •;:::a tao \....Jrt
6-A-

Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square 12191\ 277 1291 
51400 31 North ~ '} • South Ben IN 46637 Pia-A•w•ed Z4 brl. 
--=~~~~~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
H 21 I B" hd t T
appy s lrt ay 0 ara (The one Dad is leaving all his money to) 
~tme 1JtYUie 7,t'VtJie~& ~tJ?~&ie ,t'1t'D S1S7&iel 
. 


000-WAH TA-TA DONIOSH 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 

~'\ 
PUT ON SOMETHING COMFORTABLE AND STEP INTO 
SNEAKERS 
SPORTS RESTAURANT LOUNGE 

•FREE POPCORN 

SNEAKERS 
•SATELLITE SPORTS 
$3.00 OFF
•FIVE T.V.s TO WATCH 
ANY LARGE PIZZA
THE GAME 

(NOT VAUD WITH SPECIALS EXPIRES 9/30/91

•BASKETBALL SHOOT 
•FIVE 
DART BOARDS 

•PIZZAS 
FROM SCRATCH 


of!:.O\\j ~ ~~1[!D20l£6,\f1 ~rJT.f'~IfiT l\00011 ~001 
•EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT
ND 

•CONVENIENTLY LOCATED JUST OFF CAMPUS 
Located in University Lanes-1602 N.lronwood-233-BOWL 
,--­
Thursday, September 5, 1991 The Observer 
Almost Friday 

(left to right) Huma Ehtisham and Peter Amund enjoy the peace and quiet on campus before the frenzy of football season begins this weekend. 

page 5 
Dissident to be freed 
HONG KONG (AP) -China has told British Prime Minister John Major of the imminent re­lease of a Hong Kong busi­nessman jailed for trying to help pro-democracy activists escape the hard-line govern­ment, British officials said Wednesday. 
The planned freeing of trader Lo Haixing, 42, appears to be repayment for Major, who this week became the first Western leader to visit Beijing since sol­diers crushed pro-democracy demonstrations in June 1989. 
Upon arrival in this British colony, Major called the Chinese move "a helpful gesture." 
He left China for Hong Kong on Wednesday after a contro­versial three-day visit during which he and Chinese Premier Li Peng mixed sharp exchanges over human rights with agree­ments about the territory's fu­ture. 
He said Li informed him that Lo, sentenced to five years in jail in March, would soon be re­leased. 
Lo's case was followed closely in Hong Kong because of the worrisome precedents it indi­cated as to how China viewed political activity by Hong Kong citizens. China regains control of Hong Kong in 1997 after more than 150 years of British rule. 
Lo's brother, Michael, said Lo was being released for "medical reasons" although he Is believed to be In excellent health. 

$23permonth•on Sears-Charge PLUS 
PACKARD BEll 386SX WITH GRAPHIC USER INTERFACE 
• EASY TO USE! Just point 
and click mouse to access • 3112, 51/• disk drives 
• 
1 MB RAM, 40 MB hard drive 

• 
12 month on-site service (See srore lor derails) 


1099.99 
Monilor exira 

• 
14 line X80 character display 

• 
Uses standard 3112-ln. disks 

• 
Dual screen capability 

• 
Data merge, page layout view 


on Sears-Charge 

SAVE $30 TYPEWRITER WITH SPELL CORRECTOR 
50,000 word electronic dictionary, 7000 characler editable text memory, 16 digit LCD display 
149.99 
Through Sept. 28 Reg. $179.99 
SAVE 10°/o
5.39 
10-pk. Reg. $5.99 
31J?.in. high 
FUJI 14.99
density disks. 10-pk. Reg. $16.99 Both lhru Sept 21 
PLUS GET A$1 MAIL-IN MANUFACTURER'S REBATE. FOR DETAILS 

B. 54181 (Mir #WM1000) 
YOUR CHOICE ELECTRONICS 
A. Cosio 16 line X 8 line graphic hand held computer 
B. Franklin Wordmaster-thesaurus, games, more! 
C. Seiko Thesaurus-gives new words for word entry 
69.99.. 
• 
6501 GRAPE ROAD/US 23 (219) 271-6500 
T~-~--­

.. -----------~-----...----.... 
----------------------------------------~ 



Thinkofit as separate checks for yourphone bill. 
If you've ever had trouble figuring out just who made which calls, take a tip from us. 
Get AT&T Call Manager.t For free. D With Call Manager, all you have to do is dial a·simple code. And we'll 
separate your long distance calls from the ones your roommates make. D Plus, ifyou sign up for CallManager 
now, you'll alsp get a free hours worth of AT&T long distance calling.* And you'll become a member of 
AT&T Student Saver Plus, a program of products and services designed to save students time and money. 
D So sign up for AT&T Call Manager. Because there are some things roommates shouldn't have to share. 
I 

Get AT&TCall Manager today. cai1 1 800 654-0471 Ext. 4813. 

AT&T 
tThis service may not be available in residence halls on your campus~ Must have true toucli tone telephone and service. "Good for one hour of direct~dialed, coast-to-coast, night and weekend calling, based on prices effective 2/16/91. Offer limited to one $8.25 AT&T Long Distance 
CertiWcate per student Offer valid through June 30, 1992. ©1991 AT&T 

Business 

Thursday, September 5, 1991 page 7 
Salomon Chairman promises
Bankruptcy is Becoming 
Increasingly More Fashionable 

cooperation with investigators
The number of bankruptcy 
filings In the United Slates: 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sa­lomon Inc.'s interim chairman, Warren Buffett, publicly apolo­gized Wednesday on behalf of the investment firm for the bond-trading scandal gripping Wall Street. He promised "wholehearted cooperation" 
each year 
with investigators. 
In his first testimony since scandal engulfed the giant gov­ernment securities dealer, Buf­fett said Salomon is conducting a top-to-bottom investigation of 

L~~~~~~~~----.:==~~~~~~::::___jmisconduct and is cooperating
fully with government probes. 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 


Economy's Two-Sided Recovery 
New reports point to a jump In new manufacturing orders. At the same time, Industry Is being cautious about rehiring workers-in some case going out of Its way to avoid fattening the job rolls. 
~Ball~~~ .~.?!!elties 

• Holiday Stuff • Decorating 
• Dee Jay Service • Singing Telegrams 
Party Planning From The Smallest To The Lcvgestl Everything Imaginable for Parties I 
52021 US 33 N. 

271-1556 5~;~~~~~~~7
****** WE DELIVER ****** 
HAPPY 21st 
FO 
FO !!! 
"I will be ruthless," said Buf­fett, the 60-year-old bill}onaire investor who took over the helm of the nation's oldest, and one of the largest, Treasury dealers after revelations last month of federal rule violations. 
The scandal focuses on illegal bids placed in Treasury bill, note and bond auctions, which finance the nation's public debt, and has forced out chairman John Gutfreund and three other 

GomeS helps the Taj Mahal rebound 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP)­The latest executive hired by Donald Trump t.o improve the fortunes of the reeling Taj Mahal casino doesn't fear the fate that befell his four prede­cessors. 
"I've never worried about that kind of thing," Taj President Dennis Gomes said. "I've always enjoyed the challenge of going to a situation that's not doing well." 
Since the Taj opened in April 1990, Trump has hired -and then lost -four presidents in a scramble to steer the city's 

ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS $.95 EA. NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER ORDER 
54533 Terrace Lane 
271-1177 
Free delivery to ND/SMC campus and local area. 
top executives. 
Buffett's comments came in testimony before the telecom­munications and finance sub­committee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees the securities markets. 
While the panel praised Buf­fett for his swift response to the scandal -which included firing or suspending several top Salomon officials and canning the firm's outside law firm ­
House members grilled regula­
tors about why it took so long to uncover the scandal. 
Officials at the Federal He-serve Board, Treasury Depart­ment and Securities and Ex­change Commission -which oversee segments of the Trea­sury auctions -have conceded they did not know the extent of the wrongdoing at Salomon un­til the firm admitted the viola­tions early last month. 
"The lack of coordination here is very telling," Rep. Ed-
largest casino through a mine field of high debts and lower­than-expected revenues. 
The 47-year-old Gomes is now getting his shot after being hired away from the Golden Nugget casino in Las Vegas, Nev. He accepted a contract in March at $850,000 a year and a $650,000 cash guarantee if he's fired. 
The jury still is out on his performance, but Gomes says the second quarter proves that a turnaround has begun after ward Markey, D-Mass. and the chairman of the subcommittee, said of the delay between the moment when regulators were first told of discrepancies and the time when any action was taken against Salomon. 
But senior regulatory officials said that they had kept each other informed and that the nature of the illegal bidding by Salomon -which included placing unauthorized orders in customers' names -made it difficult to detect. 
Salomon has admitted to breaking the law in Treasury securities auctions in December, February, April and May. In addition to the fraudulent bidding, the violations include failing to inform regulators promptly and bypassing a fed­eral rule preventing firms from acquiring more than 35 percent of any government security at auction. 
an industrywlde struggle through the recession. 
He notes that although the Taj posted a $16.3 million quarterly loss, compared to a $14.4 million shortfall last year, operating cash flow rose to $24.8 million from $23.9 million. Cost-cutting programs also lowered expenses by about $16 million. 
"From a long-term standpoint ... the only real thing anybody should look at Is operating profit," Gomes said. 

THE SNITE 
7:30,9:45 

riday andSaturd 
ave a tree. Recycle this newspaper. 
Viewpoint 
Thursdday, September 5, 1991 page 8 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ..•..•...•......••..•.. Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..••..Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor•••••••..••.••••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager .••.•••. Alissa Murphy Sports Ed"or ..••...•••.•...David Dieteman Production Msnager .•.•••..•••.Jay Colucci Accent Editor•..•...•...•..••.•..John O'Brien Systems Manager ..•••.••••...••.Mark Sloan Photo Ed"or •...•..••••••..•••••••.•.Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••..••...•.•••••.•.Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Ed"or•.••.••..••.Emily Willett Controller•••.••••••••••.••••.•Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Our Lady crusades to free all from communism 
Dear Editor: gauntlet. And her triumph, Fatima and have told, under se-enmity ever established by God, order to use you for the great 
Considering Russia's recent which she foretold at Fatima, is crecy; to the children to whom I (Gen 3:15). "The Red Dragon plan of salvation of mankind. freedom from communist rule God's triumph, the mercy of am appearing at Medjugorie." will find himself decisively You cannot comprehend how the report of Mrg. Angelo Kim, God." Five months later, present humiliated and defeated when I great your role is in God's plan. President of the Korean world events were set in bind him not by a great chain Therefore, dear children, pray Episcopal Conference, in the At Fatima in 1917, two motion; President Gorbachev but by a very frail cord: the holy so that through prayer you may November 11,1990 issue of the months before that revolution came to the United States and rosary." comprehend God's plan towards Korean Catholic weekly is of no in Russia giving rise to Marxist signed the Peace Accord. It was Although she has made clear you. I am with you so that you significance. During last year's Communism, of which December 8, the Feast of the that all prayer from the heart is can realize it completely. synod in Rome, the Korean Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn Immaculate Conception! precious to God, she told us At Fatima Our Lady's call was bishops were invited to lunch declares, "Militant Atheism is Furthermore, on the same from Medjugorje this past to the Catholic Church. From with the Pope. In particular not merely marginal...Hatred of weekend as the 1991 National January, in warning of Satan's Medjugorje her call today is Mgr. Kim said to the Pope, God is the principle driving Conference at Medjugorie at present desire to destroy all going out to the whole world, to "Thanks to you Poland has now force." Our Lady warned that if Notre Dame, in response to Our peace, (global and personal) all those who can accept it. been freed from communism." her requests were ignored, "She Lady's urgent call, an under-"God sent me among you to And in regard to the importance The Pope replied, "No, not to [Russia] shall spread her errors ground Marian Apostolate held help you. If you are willing, of this call and the role we are me, but by the works of the throughout the world promoting a public conference in St. take up the Rosary. Even the each given now to play, Bishop Blessed Virgin, according to her wars and persecutions of the Petersburg (Leningrad) -the Rosary alone can accomplish Hnilica states, "This concerns affirmations at Fatima and Church.... " However, she first of its kind in the history of miracles in the world and in Mary's honor, her credibility, Medjugorje." promised the eventual con­Russia, consecrating all of your lives." that we all intercede 
Our Lady's August 25, 1991 version of Russia, " ... in the end, Russia and the Soviet Union to On January 25, 1987 she consciously for this triumph of 
message from Medjugorie, my Immaculate Heart shall the Immaculate Heart of Mary underlined the incredible Mary. This will be the greatest 
given just several days after triumph." On July 3, 1987, in and publicly renouncing all ties importance of the call she is victory of all time!" 
these developments in Russia, speaking about this triumph, with Satan. Our Lady has giving us from Medjugorje and Russia's freedom from 
affirmed the Holy Father's she said, "These times are stated that Marxist Communism that she is not alone today in communism coming after Our 
connection of Fatima and closer than you think. Already, is the Red Dragon with which being given a responsibility by Lady's July 25th appeal from 
Medjugorie: "Dear children, to­during this Marian Year, certain she is doing battle in the 12th God: "Dear children, I want Medjugorje, "I desire you to 
day also I invite you to prayer, great events will take place, chapter of the Apocalypse, a you to comprehend that God grasp the seriousness of the 
now as never before when my 
plan has begun to be realized ...I 
invite you to renunciation for 
nine days .so that with your help 
everything I wanted to realize 
through the secrets I began in 
Fatima may be fulfilled." 
Concerning the importance of 
this call from Our Lady in 
Medjugorie and its connection 
with the plan she began at 
Fatima, Bishop Paolo Hnilica, 
S.J., writes: "Today Mary is mobilizing her generation. Her primary task is set out in the Bible, in the Old Testament: 'I will set enmity between you and the woman, between your off­spring and her offspring.' ... In the year 1917 Satan challenged God as never before in history to an open battle through the Denis Nolan Russian Revolution. And Mary -Director, Queen of this was her task -accepted this Peace Ministries challenge; she took up the September 4, 1991 
DOONESBURV 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
5aV, 8I5FOR& Ya.J ABafT UNPAO<, UT'5 
(AJHAT,

TAU< AEKJUT lH/5... 
POP?
I I 

IAJ-IAT HAP­IWSTMY Pffl~TJ70 JOB, POP. Mit<& YOU~ IAJHY CWWN'TAf'fVR/? HAVe YOU 70/<&&PA 
CQI.1f3HOMt? BABY 5/TTtR 
ANYMORE-.
·-~-' 
"' 
!A.IAITA /v1/NlfT8. 
YOU5AID YOU
YOUW/31<8 
HAJJ Y(X}R OIAJN
BABY-SmiN6 
HIT TV 5£3R/EE.
IN Net-U YORJ< 'if 
I I 

'We're all in this together -by ourselves.' 
Lily Tomlin 
Submit to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
......-............................ --..--............... ,.. ..................~ .• .• ... "--'~! -~ ~ .:... '" • • '" ..... 'f' • 'I" p ., 'I' 9 l_. _f t l~-· 't, l' l' Y Jl f"._) t t f lr f Y lr ' \ f 1 I • t .. "lit ....It It •••• I I • ' •• e I ., •• ~.Ill

Dan Shart<ey '92 is one of hundreds of ND/SMC students whose 
concern and caring brought happiness to others. His service was at 
Children's Hospitai,Detroit, through the Summer Service Project. 
In Search of Excellence in Service 
We are a community of high achievers. Most of us have come to 
Notre Dame because we have learned what It takes to be a 
"winner." Approximately two thousand of these achievement­
oriented students spend time while they are at Notre Dame trying 
to make the world a better place either by serving disadvantaged 
people in the surrounding community or working for positive social 
change. Our commitment to excellence does not stop in the 
classroom. We carry it with us into the service and social action 
projects in which we participate. This leads us to begin to try to 
set standards for service and social action work. We soon find that 
competition has crept even into the most altruistic of our pursuits. 
One criterion that we have used to judge who is the "best" at 
service is to examine motivation. If you go to Logan Center on 
Saturdays because it will be a plus on your medical school 
application forms you are not as "good" a volunteer as the person 
who does it because of an unselfish love of the world. or, if you 
decide to tutor In a neighborhood center because you know that a 
person that you would like to meet is tutoring there, you get a B or 
a C in service. While your fellow tutors who go because they know 
that these children have not had the advantages that they have and 
they want to give them a better chance get an A-(it's clear that 
there Is a little guilt here). If you present yourself as completely 
altruistic, drawn only by the compassion that fills your heart, you 
get the A. 
This setting of standards can result in some complex analysis 
and sophisticated representation of motivation that leads to faulty 
conclusions and a possibly destructive approach to others. Since 
we are a competitive culture, we have learned to judge ourselves 
by measuring our work against the work of others. In the area of 
service this can result in the careful examination of other people's 
motivation to determine whether their stated motivation is their 
"true" motivation. This scrutiny can create distance and suspicion 
in our relationships. 
If we agree that motivation is a standard by which to judge excel­lence In service, and we know that others are watching how we perform, and we are all very accomplished at judging and meeting standards, we can assume that no one will admit to motivation that results in less than excellent marks. So we begin to doubt what people say about their motives and we also try to present ourselves In a way that foregrounds our "best" motivation. When I am looking for the chinks In someone's armor, I could be suspected of carrying a concealed weapon. When we judge another, it is difncult to be supportive and affirming to that person. What happens Is that age-old struggle between the individual and the community, and individualism wins out. 
All of this leads to the possibility that we will deny our mixed mo­tivation. When we go to the Center for the Homeless or write a let­ter to a prisoner for Amnesty, we make sure that no one knows that there Is a little selfishness mixed in with the altruism that has compelled us to this act. Sometimes we may even fail to acknowledge our mixed motivation to ourselves. 
This setting of standards and the resulting masking of motivation seems to me to be a problem. Just as the academic grading system can be an obstacle to education, the setting of standards for service and social action can make it more difficult to make a contribution and grow In the process. If one must deny motivation that is not purely unselfish, It can lead to a lack of self-awareness that stunts growth and requires a more elaborate set of personal defenses. These defenses, while important, make It more difficult for those Involved In service to be accessible to people they meet along the way. My experience has taught me that when I am open to those whom I am serving, both they and I arc touched by the act in a significant way. 
While there arc problems with our need to achieve when we serve our community, I would be unrealistic at best to assume that we can leave our desire for excellence at the door of the Center for Social Concerns. I believe that if we are aware of the pitfalls of setting standards of excellence on our efforts to serve humanity, we will, in fact, be better at service. When we face our Imper­fections and realize that mixed motivation Is part of the human condition, we will be able to acknowledge the variety of reasons that have led us through the C.S.C. doors. That acknowledgement will allow those with whom we work and whom we serve to know us better. Self-awareness and openness to others are two very im­portant ingredients In being compassionate, mature citizens. I would say then that a willingness to see and admit our own weaknesses may be the way to be the best that we can be as we strive to make a difference In the world. 
-Kathy Roger 

UPDATE ON SELECTED CENTER PROGRAMS AND 
ACTIVITIES  
PARTI~IPANIS  
1991 URBAN PLUNGE  278  
1991 SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS  120  
1990-91 SEMINARS:  
APPALACHIA  (3)  225  
WASHINGTON, D.C.  (2)  38  
CULTURAL DIVERSI1Y (2)  14  
NON-VIOLENCE (1)  10  
WOMEN IN MINISTRY (1)  9  
SOUTHERN ISSUES (1)  8  
MEXICO (1)  7  
1990-91 STUDENTS IN 30 SERVICE  1,600  
AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS  

1990-91 ND STUDENT GOVERNMENT PROPOSES SERVICE/SOCIAL AWARENESS REQUIREMENT
•
STUDE~T 
1111111111 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This report deals with~ issue c:i service/social awa~nrss at Notre Dame. 1be committee examined~ mission c:i ~University to instill a spirit c:i voluntmism in its students. We_ accomplished this by studying past ~ by meeting with South Bend community leaders and irdividuals from ~ Center !Or Social Coocerns, and by d&ussing ~ issue at length. The committee analyzed what progr= ~ University has ~ in this area and where there ~mains room !Or improvtment. •• 
Great st~ ~ been ~ in ~ area of providing studmts with mo~ opportunities to engage in service/social awareness activities, particularly through~ creation o:i ~Center !Or Social Coocerns. However, ~ committee a~ that mo~ progr= must be mack in this area. lnerefore, ~ committee m:ommends that ~ University incorporates a one-credit service/social awareness requirement for all students in their first ~ at Notre Dame. 
We hope that ~ Board c:i Trustees supports this goal 
Sincerely. 
~~ 
Robert F. l':isin 
Chairperson 

ND Team Studies Integration of Service with Curriculum 
A team from Notre Dame was one of 15 selected from American colleges and universities to attend the July 1991 Campus Compact Institute at Stanford University on Integrating Service with Academic Study. The team consisted of Eileen Kolman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies; Dian Murray, associate professor of history and associate dean and director of undergraduate studies in arts and letters; Kathy Royer, coordinator of Service/Social Action Groups for the Center for Social Concerns; Kathleen Maas Weigert, faculty liaison/academic coordinator in the Center for Social Concerns and concurrent associate professor of American Studies; and Frederick Wright, assistant dean of arts and letters, adjunct assistant professor of government and International studies and director of African-American Studies. The team examined several alternative approaches to the topic and formulated plans to advance the issues over the next few years. 

Front row: Kathy Royer, Dian Murray, Frederick Wright. Back row: Kathleen Maas Weigert, Eileen Kolman 
The Center is a component of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry of the University of Notre Dame 
1991-92 DIRECTORY OF SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION GROUPS UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Amnesty International ND Best Buddies Big Brothers/Sisters Center for Basic 
Learning Center for the Homeless CILA Coalition for Human Rights Community of Caring Council for Fun & Learn Dismas House First Aid Service Team FoodShare G.A.L.A. Habitat for Humanity Headstart Hispanic-American Org. Model United Nations NAACP ND/SMC Council for Retarded NISDC Neighborhood Study 
Help Program Overseas Development 
Network Pax Christi Recyclin' Irish Right to Life Samaritan Club SAVE (Student 
Advocates Volunteers for the Elderly) STEP (Student Tutorial 
Education Program) Students for Environmental Action Women United for 
Justice & Peace 


The Observer Center for Social Concerns Paid Adverisment 
Groups Enrich Community and Students, Too 
CHILDREN 


Objective: To build one-to-one relationships between Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students and mentally handicapped people Needs: Ten Notre Dame Students who are interested in developing a friendship with a mentally handicapped person which would require approximately four hours every two weeks Contact: Julie Wright-283-1291 


Objective: To provide a setting for shared time and friendship between 
a student and a child Needs: Student volunteers. Contact: Stephanie Boerger 1511 Mark Reuter-283-1919  -283­ 
CILA (Community for International Lay Apostolate)  the  

Objective: To live a Christian service-oriented life-style through education, service projects, spiritual and social activities Needs: Volunteers to attend weekly meetings and to plan and participate in projects. NOTE: CILA members also volunteer at El Campito Day Care Center Contact: Angela Gross -283-4252 Michael Moynihan ­
COMMUN/1Y OF CARING 
Objective: To work with local schools to develop a community within the schools that will strengthen values and develop self-esteem of middle school students Needs: Volunteers to spend one hour/week at a local middle school Contact: Kathy Royer-239-7862 
COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARN 
Objective: To provide a recreationaVsocialization program for 6-16 year old children Needs: Volunteers on Saturday from 9-11:30 a.m. Contact: Jeffrey Shoup-Steve Cozzolino -283-3315 
HEADSTART 
Objective: To prepare young 
children  for  
school  
Needs:  Volun­ 

teers to work two hours per week in Headstart classrooms with children on a one­to-one basis Contact: Gary Seibel -273-2087 
• MADISON 
Objective: To create a healing environment for emotionally disturbed elementary school age children Needs: Volunteers to work in the classroom on a one-to-one basis Contact: Laurel Eslinger-234-0061 

SAMARITAN CLUB 
Objective: To develop a healing relationship between Notre Dame students and young people from the NE Neighborhood Needs: Volunteers to play Basketball and Volleyball every Friday from 5:00-7:00 and to become friends and 

Service/Social Acdon Group Leaders 1991-92 

CENTER 


Amnesty International NO 
Best Buddies Big Brothers/Sisters 
Center for Basic Learning Center for the Homeless CILA 
Coalition for Human Rights 
Community of Caring Council for Fun & Learn 
Dismas House First Aid Service Team FoodShare 
G.A.L.A. Habitat for Humanity Headstart Hispanic American Org. 
Model United Nations NAACP 
Stephen Fuller  234-1083  
Kelly Reuba  288-5428  
Julie Wright  283-1291  
Stephanie Boerger  283-1511  
Mark Reuter  283-1919  
Dianne Dean  283-4813  
Angela Gross  283-4252  
Michael Moynihan  
Aimee Delach  283-2513  
Tracy Wadleigh  283-3423  
Jeffrey Shoup  
Steve Cozzolino  283-3315  
Fernando Gutierrez  283-2188  
Stephen Egan  283-1835  
Dennis McDonald  283-1837  
Carol Stuart  
Gary Seibel  273-2087  
Eduardo Fletes  283-1867  
Maria Magallon  283-4937  
David Certo  283-1034  
Angela Smith  283-3813  


DOMESTIC VIOLENCE & 
PROBLEM PREGNANCY 
*MADISON CENTER S.O.S. PROGRAM 
Objective: To provide criSIS counseling and education for victims of rape Needs: Volunteers to respond to rape crisis situations and to give ongoing support to rape victims Contact: Laurel Eslinger-234-0061 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
Objective: To provide support and counseling to women who are experiencing problem pregnancies Needs: Volunteers to work with 
clients Contact: 234-0363  Women's Care Center  - 
ECOLOGY  

STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION 
Objective: To organize the collection of used aluminum Needs: Volunteers to help plan for collection Contact: Anton Salud -283-3333 John Sabo -283-2137 
RECYCLIN' IRISH 

Objective: To continue to develop a recycling program for the entire University Needs: Volunteers to help with organization and implementation of a university-wide recycling program Contact: Randy Davis-283-1301 Maureen Brown -283-4719 
ELDERLY 
SAVE (Student Advocates Volunteers for the Elderly) Objective: To provide services to the 
ND/SMC Council for Retarded NISDC 
NSHP ODN Pax Christi Recyclin' Irish Right to Life 

SAVE STEP Students for Environmental Action Women United for Justice & Peace World Hunger Coalition 
elderly in the South Bend community Needs: Volunteers to visit nursing homes or elderly people in the community on a weekly basis Contact: Eleanor Starkey -283­1367 
HANDICAPPED 
BEST BUDDIES 
Objective: To build one-to-one relationships between Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students and mentally handicapped people Needs: Ten Notre Dame Students who are interested in developing a friendship with a mentally handicapped person which would require approximately four hours every two weeks Contact: Julie Wright-283-1291 
ND/SMC COUNCIL FOR RETARDED 
Objective: To provide one-to-one support to clients of Logan Center Needs: Volunteers to work with Logan clients to be scheduled individually Contact: Stephen Curley -283-1849 Kelly Schumacher -283-4854 
NORTHERN INDIANA STATE DEVELOPMENT CENTER 
Objective: To work with mentally retarded children and adolescents who are residents of NISDC Needs: Volunteers to work on projects and one-to-one with NISDC residents Contact: David Tarantino -283­4024 Gina DiRenzo-283-3786 
HOMELESS see GROUPS I page 4 
Students shown in photos on this page were involved in recent Summer Service Projects. Ellen Spiering '92(1eft) and Andres Rodriguez '93 (right). 
Michael Swanson  283-1730  
Stephen Curley  283-1849  
Kelly Schumacher  283-4854  
David Tarantino  283-4024  
Gina DiRenzo  283-3786  
Mike McKay  283-4040  
Martha McKenna  283-2510  
Cheryl Barrett  
Carlos Lozada  283-1513  
Chris Shank  
Emily Neufeld  283-3357  
Kevin Heffernan  283-4147  
Randy Davis  283-1301  
Maureen Brown  283-4719  
Julie Hennigan  283-4842  
Eleanor Starkey  283-1367  
Daniel Piercy  
Jennifer Bruening  283-1120  
Anton Salud  283-3333  
John Sabo  283-2137  
Melanie Masin  283-1674  
Eric Schimmel  283-1026  
Andrew Sinn  283-1224  
Ed Miehle  283-3310  

Center for Social Concerns Paid Adverisment The Observer 
URBAN PLUNGE 
The Plunge is a 48-hour immersion into the kind of life most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have never seen. 275 students made an Urban Plunge during early January 1991. 
The purpose of the Plunge is to experience injustice, apathy and poverty; to increase awareness of people who are working to improve these situations; and to witness and reflect on ways to address Gospel concerns regarding the oppressed. 
Working Side by Side: APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
During each semester break over 100 students travel to the Appalachia region of Kentucky and West Virginia. Students spend the week (for which they earn one academic credit) working side by side with the people of the mountains. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students celebrate the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. For further Information, call the Center at 239-5293. 
An Insider's Look: WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Approximately 24 students travel each semester break to the nation's capital to ex­plore crucial issues of the day from a variety of perspectives. In Washington, they meet with decision-makers, members of Congress, ambassadors and church leaders. On-campus preparation, on-site experience and follow-up reflection combine to create a unique one-credit learning opportunity. To register for the seminar, contact the CSC at 239-5293. 
New Seminars: CULTURAL DIVERSITY I WOMEN, CHURCH AND SOCIETY 
During the past year the Center has developed two new week-long seminars to explore critical Issues or our time. Each seminar is based in Chicago and involves one-credit of experiential learning during semester breaks. 
The Cultural Diversity seminar explores the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods and immigrant tradition. The corresponding problems of urban life and racism are examined as well. 
The Women, Church and Society seminar Is designed to acquaint students with the challenges of women in ministry. This seminar studies gender issues and commitment to community and service. 
To register for either seminar, contact the Center at 239-5293. 
PEACE AND JUSTICE OPPORTUNITIES 
The Center typically sponsors or co-sponsors Peace Weeks e.g., "Peace and with Justice Week", a theme week (e.g., Earth Week,) and lectures, films, panels, and educational programs on social concerns Issues (e.g., racism). 
AND MORE ... 
Latin America Programs (Staffi: Students study in Mexico for a semester in the Program In Global Community of Cuernavaca. Also, in May/June, after Com­mencement, the Center sponsors a Mexico Seminar. 
Center Facilities Include: 

• 
a coffee house, 


• 
a large multi-purpose room, 

•
seminar rooms, . a resource room, 

• 
a library, 

• 
a reflection room. 



Contact the Center receptionist to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, and other gatherings. 
1991-92 Community Service Commissioners 
Alumni  Rich Riley  303  1166  
Badin  Suya Joseph  253  3747  
AllieZima  202  3831  
Breen-Phillips  Joy McKenna  133  1266  
Carroll  
Cavanaugh Dillon  Peter Obringer  224  1692  
Macio Valdes  
Far1ey  Sarah Abhalter  307  4220  
Jessica Orie  114  4112  
Fisher  Adam Walsh  230  1972  
Flanner  
Grace  
Howard  Jennifer Dean  312  1972  
Amy Simpson  129  4582  
Keenan  Chris Paulson  406  3364  
Knou  Vaneeta Monteiro  415  4999  
Lewis  Adreinne Lilly  322  3518  
Lyons  Andrea Gutierrez Rita Parhad  414 304  2784 2822  
Morrissey  Steve MacManus  422  3655  
Pangborn Pasquerilla East  Michael Cain Tina McAdams  218 739  2368 4510  
Patricia Stanford  627  3865  
Pasquerilla West  Maren Shute Tracy Drohan  242 343  2904 2769  
Siegfried Sorin Hall  Julie Hennegan Christopher Browning  348 350  4842 2171  
St. Edward's  Thomas Gentine  319  1513  
Stanford  
Walsh  Pauy Pierson  237  2646  
Zahm  Randy Davis  121  1454  


1st Row: Kathleen Maas Weigert, Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator; Ardis King, Secretary; Don McNeill, C.S.C., Director; Sandy Barton, Administrative Assistant; 2nd Row: Eugene McClory, Associate Director; Carol Porter, Secretary; Patty Flynn, Secretary-Receptionist; Sue Cunningham, Coordinator: Urban Plunge and Summer Service Projects; 3rd Row: Kathy Royer, Coordinator: Service/Social Action Groups; Mary Ann Roemer, Coordinator: Senior/Alumni Programs; Jay Brandenbeger, Coordinator: Peace and Justice Programming and Education. The work of the Center is also facilitated by student managers and student assistants, by resource persons, and volunteers. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
The Summer Service Projects are eight week sessions of community service set up through Alumni Clubs all over the country. 120 Notre Dame students took part this summer. A tuition scholarship is awarded to each participating student. The scholarships are provided by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and the James F. Andrews Endowment. Every project is different. Students work in shelters for the homeless, soup kitchens, homes for abused children, spouse abuse shelters, Headstart pro­grams, camps for inner city children, etc., etc. An Information Meeting for the 1991 SSP will be held at the Center on December 4 at 7:30p.m. 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
Workshops, seminars and other meetings enable seniors to consider the integration of service into their chosen careers and/or the advantages of a year or two of volunteer service, e.g., Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact Mary Ann Roemer (239-5293). 
SENIOR RAP UP GROUPS 
Approximately 150 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors participate in senior rap up groups. Notre Dame seniors are invited to join about eight to ten of their classmates to form a senior rap up group. They gather approximately once a month in a faculty or staff home where they plan and prepare a meal followed by informal discussion that focuses on the plans and concerns that students have as they approach graduation. Contact Mary Ann Roemer (239-5293) . 
ACADEMIC COURSES 
Theology Courses (Don McNeill, C.S.C. and StafO: Reading and reflection on issues raised by service experiences. Courses include: "Church and Social Action," "Theology and Community Service," "Reflections on Service," "Theology and Social Ministry." 
Other Justice and Peace Courses (Kathleen Maas Weigert): Study and analysis of contemporary ethical and moral issues related to justice and peace: "Introduction to Peace Studies," "Peace Movements in America," "Social Concerns In America: Homelessness," "Women and Men, War and Peace." 
SOCIAL CONCBINS LUNCHES 
The Center invites you to participate in our Social Concerns Lunches. The Center staff assists students and social service groups to sponsor lunches which focus on issues of social concern both in our local and our global community. The sponsoring group prepares and serves a meal which generates proceeds that are used by the group to support their service programs. See The Observer for announcement of dates and sponsors. 


CENTER FOCUSES ON SOCIAL CONCERNS REFLECTED IN ALUMNI CAREERS 
The University celebrates its .Sesquicentennial anniversary from the fall of 1991 to the fall of 1992. One of the ways the Center will participate is to work with the four undergraduate colleges and the Law School to Invite alumni/ae to speak in classes offered by the departments from which they graduated, and to meet more Informally with students and faculty. The focus of the presentations and conversations is reflections about how their Notre Dame undergraduate or Law School experience (In their major, in their college and in the University as a whole) 
contributed to their living out the gospel call to love God and neighbor in their work-life, in particular, as well as in their life as a whole. 
Please send Our Coordinator of Sesquicentennial Projects, Margaret Kenney, the names of alumni/ae who you think would be willing to share their reflections. Some limited expense reimbursement will be available, If needed. We are searching for additional sources for reimbursement funds. 
Thank you in advance for your help! 
Kathleen Maas Weigert Faculty Liaison/Academic Coordinator 
~ ... 
The Observer 

Center lor Social Concerns Paid Adverisment 
The Faculty and Center Activities 
A variety of faculty-related activities is avail­able through the Center. The FRIDAY FORUM, a faculty-led talk/discussion series, meets three or four times each semester to examine a particular theme. 
The fall semester focuses on one of the Sesquicentennial themes, "Notre Dame and Catholic education in the United States." Profes­sor Timothy O'Meara will begin the series on Friday, September 20, at 12:15 p.m. in the Multipurpose Room of the Center. There will be three other faculty talks/discussions on October 11, November 8 and December 6. 
Faculty can offer their services for Center pro­grams. Some serve as hosts and discussion leaders for the January follow-up session for the URBAN PLUNGE. In opening their homes for an evening to "Plungers," faculty offer the 
Groups 
continued from page 2 
THE
CENTER FOR HOMELESS Overnight Volunteers: 
Objective: To stay with guests at the Center for the Homeless during the night Needs: Four volunteers every night from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. 
Daytime Volunteers: 
Objective: To help with the program for the Homeless during the daytime hours Needs: Volunteers to serve meals, take care of the desk or spend time one-to-one with residents 
Volunteers to transportfood: 
Objective: To collect fresh food from donors and deliver to Center for the Homeless 
Needs:  Volunteers  in  
morning  from  8-9.  No  
vehicle necessary  

Contact: Kathy Royer -239­7862 
HOUSING 

HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
Objective: To provide affordable housing to low­income people Needs: Volunteers to renovate houses Contact: Kathy Royer -239­7862 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
FOODSHARE 
Objective: To feed the hungry in the South Bend area with food left over from the ND dining hall Needs: Volunteers to transport food after dinner Contact: Stephen Egan ­283-1835 Dennis McDonald-283-1837 
OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NE7WORK (ODN): 
Objective: To· respond creatively to problems of world hunger and poverty Needs: Volunteers for meetings and projects Contact: Carlos Lozada ­283-1513 Chris Shank ­
.ridhungerc.ct~lilioo 
Objective: To educate the community on issues related to world hunger and raise money for hunger relief Needs: Volunteers to fast every Wednesday for the 
opportunity for students to reflect on and begin the analysis of their Urban Plunge experience. 
Other faculty host small groups of seniors in the SENIOR RAP UP program. Seniors meet in the faculty's home four or five times in the spring semester to converse about their under­graduate years at Notre Dame and to examine how social concerns are and will be integrated into their lives upon graduation. Still others volunteer to serve as advisors to the various ser­vice/social action groups affiliated with the Center. Finally, some faculty are invited to be speakers in such programs as the CALL TO PEACEMAKING (Fall semester) and PEACE WITH JUSTICE (Spring semester) weeks. 
If you are interested in getting involved in any of these opportunities, please contact Kathleen Maas Weigert (239-5319). 

noon meal in the dining hall Contact: Andrew Sinn ­283-1224 Ed Miehle-283-3310. 
PEACE AND JUSTICE CONCERNS 
4 AMNESTY 
INTERNATIONAL 

Objective: To advocate human rights, work to free prisoners of conscience, stop torture and execution Needs: Volunteers for letter­writing to publicize in community and raise funds Contact: Stephen Fuller ­283-1083 Kelly Reuba -288-5428 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) 
Objective: To live a Christian service-oriented life-style through education, service projects, spiritual and social activities Needs: Volunteers to attend weekly meetings and to plan and participate in projects. NOTE: CILA members also volunteer at El Campito Day Care Center Contact: Angela Gross ­283-4252 Michael Moynihan 
G.A.L.A. (GRADUATE ASSOCIA170N FOR LA17N AMERICA) 
Objective: To foster interest in Latin American issues Needs: Members interested in meeting regularly to discuss issues and organize programs to inform the N.D. community about the Latin American situation Contact: Carol Stuart ­
HISPANIC-AMERICAN ORGANIZA170N 
Objective: To raise the awareness of the Notre Dame community about the Hispanic American experience and to serve the local Hispanic community Needs: Volunteers to serve in South Bend's Hispanic community, in neighborhood centers, day care centers. parishes and clinics Contact: Eduardo Fletes ­283-1867 Maria Magallon -283-4937 
COALI170N FOR HUMAN RIGHTS 
Objective: To bring together the groups and organizations that are concerned with issues of human rights Needs: Volunteers who are 
interested in issues of justice 
and human rights 
Contact: Kathy Royer-239­
7862 
MODEL UNITED NA170NS 
Objective: To participate in 
simulated United Nations 
conferences around the 
United States 
Needs: Members who are 
interested in learning about global issues and how the 
United Nations works to 
address these issues 
Contact: David Certo -283­
1034 
NAACP 
Objective: To raise the awareness of the Notre Dame community about the African American experience and to serve the African American community in South Bend Needs: Volunteers who are interested in working in the African American Community in South Bend in neighborhood centers and parishes Contact: Angela Smith ­283-3813 Michael Swanson -283-1730 
OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT NETWORK (ODN): 
Objective: To respond creatively to problems of world hunger and poverty Needs: Volunteers for meetings and projects Contact: Carlos Lozada ­283-1513 Chris Shank ­
iPax Chrisli 
Objective: To raise consciousness on peace and justice issues Needs: Volunteers for bi­weekly meetings Contact: Emily Neufeld ­283-3357 
Kevin Heffernan-283-4147 
RIGHT TO LIFE 
Objective: To educate the Notre Dame community about the issues of abortion Needs: Volunteers to plan programs and attend meetings Contact: Julie Hennigan ­283-4842 

WOMEN UNITED FOR JUSTICE AND PEACE 
Objective: To educate the community on the power of common sisterhood to understand responsibilities 


appropriate action Needs: Volunteers to plan programs and attend meetings Contact: Melanie Masin ­283-1674 Eric Schimmel-283-1026 
WORLD HUNGER COALI170N Objective: To educate the community on issues related to world hunger and to raise money for hunger relief Needs: Volunteers to fast every Wednesday for the noon meal in the dining hall Contact: Andrew Sinn ­283-1224 Ed Miehle-283-3310 
j,-_J_ 
~ 
OISMAS, Inc. 
Objective: To operate a community of former prisoners and students Needs: Students to live in the community and volunteers to cook and help maintain house Contact: Kathy Royer -239­7862 
TUTORING/LITERACY 
CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS 
Objective: To teach literacy skills to adults on a one-to­one basis Needs: Volunteers to work two hours one morning per week Contact: Diane Dean -283­4813 
COMMUNI1Y OF CARING 
Objective: To work with local schools to develop a community within the schools that will strengthen values and develop self­esteem of middle school Needs: Volunteers to spend one hour/week at a local middle school Contact: Kathy Royer -239­7862 
NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
Objective: To tutor area children from kindergarten through high school Needs: Volunteers for one hour twice a week Contact: Martha McKenna ­283-2510 Cheryl Barrett ­
*ST. HEDWIG'S NEIGH­BORHOOD CENTER Objective: To tutor children from the neighborhood served by St. Hedwig's Needs: Volunteers to tutor 
two hours per week 
Contact: Kathy Royer -239­
7862 

STEP (Student Tutorial Education Program): 
Objective: To tutor and provide support to young people who are in the South Bend Juvenile Detention Center Needs: Volunteer tutors two hours per week minimum Contact: Daniel Piercy ­Jennifer Bruening -283­1120 
MISCELLANEOUS 
FIRST AID SERVICE TEAM 
Objective: To provide first aid service at a variety of 
N.D. events Needs: Volunteers to complete course and to provide service Contact: Fernando Gutierrez-283-2188 
* Denotes a community service agency recruiting student volunteers; not a Center group. 
RnA~Ial on the Center for Social Concerns ...u.ue1u service and social action groups and social and activities connected with the Center for . There are Qther programs and activities 
the auspices of dorms and other groups. atlon on Center programs and activities is the CSC Calendar published several times 
in The Observer and through tJ~e esc , .,.~,~~~,~ quarterlyJ<; Center a:l~unni. . v "' 
•advertisement is made·possiblethrongh ·the CQQD(m"tiOJil of: 
Sports 

AL STANDINGS 
NL STANDINGS BASEBALL LEADERS 
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Eut Dlvtelon  
Toronto  w 75  L 60  Pet .556  GB  LtD z-7·3  Streok Wont  Home 40·30  Away 35-30  
Detroit  71  62  .534  3  z-5-5  L06t1  42·22  29-40  
Boston  68  64  .515  5 112  6-4  Won 1  34-31  34-33  
Milwaukee  85  68  .489  9  z-6-4  Won2  36-31  29-37  
New Yolk  60  72  .455  13 112  4-6  Won 1  33·35  27-37  
Baltimore  54  711  .408  20  3-7  Loot I  24-41  30-38  
Cleveland  44  88  .333  29 1/2  z-4-6  Wont  23-41  21-47  
Weet Dlvllllon  
Mlnn8101a  w 80  L 54  Pet .5117  GB  LID z-6-4  Streok L06t1  Home 42-25  Away 38-29  
Chicago  72  62  .537  8  5-5  Won 1  39-29  33-33  
Texas  70  62  .530  9  z-7-3  Loot1  38-26  32-36  
Oakland  71  63  .530  9  3-7  L06t3  40-28  31-35  
Kansas City  68  84  .5!5  !!  5-5  L06t!  33-35  35-29  
Seanle  68  65  .51!  11 1/2  4-6  Wont  39-29  29-38  
Calli om Ia  65  68  .489  14 1/2  z-5-5  L06t1  30-35  35-33  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Tueeday'e  Gemee  
GaiWornla 2. Boston 0  
Baftlmore 8, Toronto 4  
Kaneas C~y B. Chicago 0  
Milwaukee 5, Oakland 3  
Texae 5, New York 1  
Saanle 1, Detro~ 0  
Only gamfll scheduled  
Wedn..day'e  Gemee  
Boeton 2. camornla o  
Toronto 3, Bahlmore 1  
Chicago 4, Kaneas C~y 1  
Milwaukee 2, Oakland 0  
Cleveland 8, Minnfllota 4  
New York 3, Texas 2  
Only gamfll scheduled  
Thuredey'e  Gemee  
Kansas C~y (Gubicza B-7) at Chicago (Hough 7-8). 1:05 p.m.  
Seanle (Hanson 7-7) at B08ton (Clemens 14·8), 7:35p.m.  
Toronto (Key 14-8) at Cleveland (Nagy 8·11), 7:35p.m.  
Oakland (Moore 12-8) at Detro~ (Tanana 11-8), 7:35 p.rn  

Only gamfll scheduled  
Friday'•  Gamea  
Kana• Ctty at Battlmore, 7:35 p.rn  
Seanle at Boston, 7:35p.m.  
Toronto at Cleveland, 7:35p.m.  
Oakland at Detro~. 7:35p.m.  
New Yolk at Mlnne&Ota. 8:05 p.m.  
Chicago at Texas, 8:35p.m.  
Milwaukee at Calnornla. 10:35 p.rn  
AMERICAN  CONFERENCE  
Eaet  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Buffalo  1  0  0  1.000  35  31  
New England  1  0  0  1.000  16  7  
N.Y. Jets  1  0  0  t.OOO  16  13  
ndlanapolla  0  1  0  .000  7  16  
Miami  0  1  0  .000  31  35  
Central  
HOUlton  1  0  0  1.000  47  17  
Plnaburgh  1  0  0  t.OOO  26  20  
Cincinnati  0  1  0  .000  14  45  
Cleveland  0  1  0  .000  14  26  
Weet  
Denver  1  0  0  t.OOO  45  14  
Kansas City  1  0  0  1.000  14  3  
LA Aalders  0  1  0  .000  17  47  
San Diego  0  1  0  .000  20  26  
Seanle  0  1  0  .000  24  27  
NATIONAL  CONFERENCE  
Eaet  
w  L  T  Pet.  PF  PA  
Danas  1  0  0  1.000  28  14  
N.Y. Giants  1  0  0  1.000  16  14  
Philadelphia  1  0  0  1.000  20  3  
Phoenix  1  0  0  1.000  24  14  
Washington  t  0  0  t.OOO  45  0  
Central  
Chicago  1  0  0  1.000  10  6  
Detroit  0  1  0  .000  0  45  
Green Bay  0  0  .000  3  20  
Minnesota  0  0  .000  6  10  
Tampa Bay  0  0  .000  13  t6  
Weet  
New Orleans  t  0  0  1.000  27  24  
Atlanta  0  t  0  .000  3  t4  
LA Rams  0  t  0  . 000  t4  24  
San F ranclsco  0  1  0  . 000  14  t6  

Sunday'• Gamee Kansas C~y 14, Atlanta 3 New Orleans 27. Seanle 24 New Yolk Jets 16, Tampa Bay 13 Dallas 26, Cleveland 14 Philadelphia 20, Green Bay 3 Phoenix 24, Los Angeles Rams 14 Houston 4 7. Los Angeles Aalders 17 Buffalo 35, Mlaml31 Chicago 10, Minnesota 6 New England 16, Indianapolis 7 Plnsburgh 26, San Diego 20 Denver 45, Cincinnati 14 Washington 45, Detroit 0 
Mondey'e Game New York Giants 16, San Francisco 14 
Sunday, Sepl 8 Chicago at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. Cleveland at New England, 1 p.m. Green Bay Ill Detroll, 1 p.m. Indianapolis at Miami, 1 p.rn 
L.A. Aama at N.Y. Giants, 1 p.rn Mlnne&Ota at Atlanta, 1 p.m. New Orleans at Kansas City, 1 p.rn Phoenix at Philadelphia, 1 p.m. PittSburgh at Buffalo, 1 p.m. San Diego at San Francisco, 4 p.m. Denver at Los Angeles Aalders, 4 p.m. New York Jets at Saanle, 4 p.m. Houston at Cincinnati, 6 p.m. 
Monday, Sept. 8 Washington at Dallas. 9 p.m. 
lntervarsity Christian Fellowship's .. Hors d'Oeuvres .. 
Come to our introductory meeting and get a sampling of what we're all aboutl 
Thursday Sept. 5 (tonlghtl) @ 7:00PM In the Stanford-Keenan chapel. All are welcome! 
For more Info: Sean 277-4436 Kevin x1417 


Are you looking for committed Christian friendships? If you saw us at Activities Night or if you missed us, come to the Introductory Session before our meeting: 
@g~@ [WaO'iJi)o ~~IJ'® @~!JiJi)@ 00@@[]1Ji)9 
~m OO®®ri' ll:41rP®~GIJIJil@ 
WE'RE LOOIGNG fORWARD TO Mt:mNa YOU 
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
Eaet Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pet  GB  LtO  Str..k  Home  Away  
Pittsburgh  80  52  .606  8-2  Won3  40-24  40-28  
St. Louis  71  60  .546  8tl2  z-5-5  LO&t 1  41-28  30-fW  
Chicago  66  67  .496  14 1/2  4-6  L06t2  38-27  28-40  
New Yolk  85  68  .489  15 1/2  z-5-5  L06tt  33-32  32-36  
Philadelphia  64  69  .48t  t6 1/2  4-6  L06t2  39-29  25·40  
Montreal  55  77  .4t7  25  5-5  Wont  30-35  25-42  
Weal Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pet  GB  LtO  Streak  Homa  Away  
Atlanta  73  60  .549  1/2  z-6-4  L06t1  39-29  34-31  
Los Angeles  73  59  .553  5-5  Wont  43-24  30-35  
Cincinnati  66  67  . 496  7t12  z-6-4  Won2  34-34  32-33  
San Diego  66  68  .493  8  z-6-4  Won2  3t-35  35-33  
San Francisco  62  7t  .466  lt't/2  2-8  Lost4  35-33  27-38  
Houston  55  78  .414  18 t/2  4-6  Won1  32-33  23-45  
z-denotes llrst game was a win.  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
Tueaday'a  Garnee  
Atlanta 4, Montreal t Cincinnati 8, Philadelphia 5  
New York 6, Houston 1  
San Diego 4, Chicago 1  
Los Angeles 5, St. Louis 4  
Plnsburgh 5, San Francisco 3, t 0 innings  
,·  Wedneeday'e Gamee Late Game Not Included  
Pittsburgh 8, San Francisco 3  
Montreal 8, Atlanta 4  
Cincinnati 5, Philadelphia 1  
Houston 8, New York 3  
San Diego 5, Chicago 1  
St. Louis at Los Angeles (n)  
Thuraclay'e Game  
St. Louis (B.Sm~h 11-8) at San Diego (Harris 4-4), 4:05p.m.  

Only game scheduled 
Friday'e Garnee San Francisco at Chicago, 3:20p.m. Los Angeles at Plnsburgh, 2. 5:35p.m. CinCinnati at Montreal, 7:35p.m. Atlanta at New Yolk, 7:40p.m. Philadelphia at Houston, 8:35p.m. St. Louis at San Diego, 10:35 p.m. 
NEW YORK (AP) -How the men's quarterflnallsts and women's semifinalists advanced In the $7.25 million U.S. Open at the National Tennis Center: MEN Stefan Edberg (2) 
Firat round--<lel. Bryan Shelton, 6-4, 2-6, 7-6 (7­
4), 6-1. Second round-del. Jeff Tarango, 6-3, 7-5, 6-0. Third round--<lel. Jim Grabb, 7-6 (t0-8), 4-6, 6-3, 
6-4. Fourth round--<lel. Michael Chang, 7-6 (7-2). 7-5, 6-3. Ouarlerflnals--del. Javier Sanchez, 8-3, 6-2, 6-3. 
Michael Stich (3) Firat round--<lel. Jacco Ehlngh, 7-6 (7-5). 6-t, 6-0. Sacond round-del. Jimmy Brown, wakover. Third round--<lel. MaiiVal Washlnglon. 5-7, 7-5, 
6-2, 4-6, 6-3. Fourth round--<lel. Derrick Aostagno, 6-2. 3-6, 6­t,7-6(H). Quarterflnala-vs. Ivan Landi (5). 
Jim Courier (4) First round-del. Nicklas Kuhl, 6-3, 6'-4, 6-4. Second round-del. Jimmy Arias, 6-3. 6-2, B-0. Third round--<lel. Anders Jarryd, 6-3, 6·2, 6-2. Fourth round--<lel. Emilio Sanchez (14), 6-4, 6-4, 
6-3. Quarterfinals-VII. Pete Sarrpras (6). Ivan Landi (5) First round-del. Richard Krajicek, 3-6, 2-6, 6-4, 7­
6 (7-5), 6-0. Second round-del. Patrick Kuhnen, 6-3, 6-2. 6-4. Third round-del. Todd Woodbridge. 3-8. 6-3. 6-4, 
6-3. Fourth round-del. Goran lvanlsevic (12). 7-5 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, 6-2. Quarterflnala-va. Michael Stich (3). Pete Samprae (6) First round-del. Christo van Aensburg. 6-0, 6-3, 6-2. Second round-del. Wayne Ferreira, 6-t, 6-2,2­2, retired. Third round-dol. Stephana Simian, 7-6 (7-3). 6­4, B-7 (4-7), 6-3. Fourth round-del. David Wheaton (t1), 3-6, 6-2, 6-2,6-4. Quarterflnals-\IB. Jim Courier (4). 

Jimmy Connore First round-del. Patrick McEnroe, 4-6, 6-7 (4-7), 6-4, 6-2. 6-4. Second round--<lel. Mlchlel Schapers, 6-2, B-3, 6­
\hlrd round-del. Karel Novacek (10), 6-1, 6-4, 6­
3. 

Fourth round--<lel. Aaron Krickateln, 3-6, 7-6 (10­8), t-6, 6-3,7-6 (7-4). Quarterllnals--vs. Paul Haarhula. Paul Haarhule · First round--<lel. Eric Jelen, 2·6, 6-2, 6-1, 3-6, 6-2. Second round--<lel. Andrei Chesnokov. 6-1,4-6, 
6-2. 7-6 (7-2). Third round--<lof. Boris Becker (t), 6-3, 6-4,6-2. Fourth round-del. carl-Uwe Steeb. 6-2. 6-3. 6-4. Ouanerllnai&-YII. Jimmy Connors. 
WOMEN 

Steffl Graf (1) Firat round-del. Andrea Temesvarl. 6-1, 6-2. Second round-del. Catherine Mothes. 6-0, 6-0. Third round-del. Eva Svlglerova. 6-4, 7-5. Fourth round--<lel. Jud~h Wiesner. Austria, 7-5, 6­
4. 

Quarterfinals-del. Conchita Martinez (8), 6-1,8­
3. 

SemKinal&--vs. Martina Navratllova (6). 
Monica Selee (2) First round-del. Nicole Arendt, 6-2. 6-0. Second round-del. Emanuela Zardo, 6-0, 4-6, 6­
0. 

Third round-del. Sara Gomer. Britain, 6-1,6-4 . Fourth round-del. Regina Aajchrtova, 6-t, 6-1. Quarterlinals--d91. Glgl Fernandez. 6-t, 6-2. Semnlnals--va. Jennner Caprlatl (7). 
Martine NavreUiove (tl) First round--<lel. Patricia Tarablnl. 6-2, 6-2 . Second round-del. Debbie Graham, 6-t, 6-4. Third round-del. Pam Shriver, 7-5, 6-t. Fourth round-del. Manuela Maleeva-Fragnlere 
(tO), 7-6 (7-5), t-6, 6-2. 
Quarterfinals-del. Arantxa Sanchez Vicario (4), 6-7 (6-8), 7-3 (7-5), 6-2. Samlllnals--vs. Stefll Grat (I) 
Jennifer CaprlaU (7) First round--<lel. Eva Plan. 6-1, 6-0. Second round--<lel. Petra Riner, B-3. B-0. Third round--<lel. Palricla Hy, 6-t, 6-4. Fourth round--<lel. Jo Durie, 6-t, 6-2. Quarterfinals-del. Gabriela Sabatini (3), 6-3, 7-6 AMERICAN LEAGUE 

BATllN~ranco, Texas, .339; Boggs, Boston. 
.335; PahJl8lro, Texas, .333; Molitor. Milwaukee. 
.333; Pucken. Minnesota, .331; Thomas, Chicago, 
.325; Griffey Jr. Seanle•.322. 
RUNs-Molltor, Milwaukee, 11 0; Palmelro, 
Texas, 99; Canseco, Oakland, 95; Sierra, Texas, 
94; Wh~e. Toronto, 92; Thomas. Chicago. 9t; 
Franco, Texas, 88. 
RBI-Fielder, Detroit, t15; Thomas, Chicago, 
1 03; Canseco, Oakland, 96; JuGonzalez, Texas, 
94; Carter. Toronto, 93; Sierra, Texas, 92; CAipken, 
Bahlmore. 88. 
HITs-Mol~or, Milwaukee, t82; Palmelro, Texas. 
176; Pucken, Minnesota, 1'13; CAipken, Battlmore . 
t69; Sierra, Texas, t65; Franco, Texas, 165; Sax. 
New Yolk. 158. 
DOUBLEs-?almelro, Texas, 41; Griffey Jr, 
Seanle, 37; Carter. Toronto, 36; Boggs, Boston, 36; 
CAipken. Bahlmore, 36; AAiomar, Toronto, 35; 
Sierra. Texas, 35; Bren, Kansas City, 35. 
TRIPLEs-Mol~or, Milwaukee, 11; AAiomar, 
Toronto, tO; Whhe, Toronto, 9; McRae, Kansas 
City, 8; Devereaux. Baltimore, 8; LJohnson, 
Chicago, 8; Mack, Mlnneaota, 8; Polonla. 
Calnornla. 8; Gladden, Minnesota, 8. 
HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detro~. 37; Canaeco, 
Oakland, 36; Thomas, Chicago, 30; Carter, 
Toronto, 30; Tartabull, Kaneas City, 27; CDavia. 
Minnesota. 27; JuGonzalez, Texas, 26; Tenleton, 
Detroit, 26; CAipken, Battlmore, ~­
STOLEN BASES-AHenderson. Oakland, 49; 
Raines, Chicago. 47; AAiomar, Toronto, 4t; 
Polonla, Calnornla. 39; Cuyler. Detro~. 34; Wh~e. 
Toronto, 31; Franco, Texas. 27. 
PITCHING (12 Declslons)-Hesketh, Boston. 
t0-3, .769, 3.4t; Klink, Oakland. 9·3, .750, 3.9t; 
Erickson, Minnesota, !7-6, .739, 3.08; Gullickson, 
Detroit, 17-7, .708, 4.04; Langston, California, 16-7, 
.696, 3.t3; Stottlemyre, Toronto, 13-6, .684, 3.88; 
Finley, CaiiiOfnla. 16-8, .667, 3.79; JoGuzman, 
Texas, t0-5, .667, 2.95. 
STRIKEOUTS--<:Iemens. Boa ton, 19t; 
AJohnson. Seanle. 190; McDowell, Chicago, 165; 
Ryan, Texas, 157; Gandlonl. Toronto, t62; Finley, 
Galnornla. t47; Swindell, Cleveland, t46. 
BAYEs-Aguilera, Mlnneeota, 37; Eckersley, 
Oakland, 36; Harvey, Callfomla. 35; Reardon, 
Boston. 34; Herlle, Toronto, 3t; Thigpen. Chicago, 
28; Olson, Baltimore. 26; Montgomery, Kana• 
City, 26; JeAussell. Texas. 26. 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
BAT11NG-TGwynn, San Diego, .325; Moms, 
CinCinnati, .318; Jose, St. Louis, .314; WCialk, San 
Francisco, .31t; BonHJa. PittSburgh, .3tt; 
Pendleton, Atlanta. .3t0; Butler, Los Angeles, .308. 
RUN5--Butler, Loa Angelee, 113; Johnson. N­
Yolk, 87; Sandberg, Chicago, 85; JBell, Plnaburgh, 
83; Bonilla, Pln&burgh, 83; Gant, Atlanta. 82; 
Pendleton. Atlanta, 8t; OSm~h. St. Louis, 8t. 
RBI-WCialk, San Francisco, 104; Bonds, 
Pittsburgh, 97; Johnson. New Yolk, 93; McGrllt, 
San Diego, 87; Dawson, Chicago, 87; Gant, 
Atlanta. 85; Bonilla, Plnsburgh, 84. 
HITs-TGwynn, San Dlego t66; Butler, Los
1

Angeles, t57; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, t5t; WCiark, 
San FranCisco, t50; Joee. St. Louis, 148; Finley, 
Houston, 145; Grace, Chicago, 145; Pendlaon, 
Atlanta, 145. 
DOUBLES-Jose, St. Louis, 38; Bonilla. 
Pinaburgh, 38; Morris, Cincinnati, 30; Saba, 
CinCinnati, 29; WCialk, San Francisco, 29; O'Neill. 
Clnclnnall, 29; Zelle, St. Louis, 28; Gant, Atlanta. 
28; JBell. Plnsburgh, 28; McReynolds, New Yolk, 
26. 
TRIPLES-lanklord, St. Louis, t3; TGwynn, San 
Diego, t1; Finley, Houston, 9; LGonzalez. Houaton, 
8; Grissom. Montreal, 7; Gandaele. Houalon, 7; 
VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 7. 
HOME RUNS-Johnson. New York, 31; Gant, 
Atlanta, 28; MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 28; 
WCiark, San Francisco. 26; McGrllt, San Diego, 26; 
KvMitchell, San Francisco, 26; Dawson, Chicago, 
24. 
STOLEN BASEs-Nixon, Atlanta. 68; Grissom, 
Montreal. 59; DeShlelda, Montreal. 49; Bonds, 
Pittsburgh, 40; Coleman, New Yolk, 37; Butler, Los 
Angeles, 34; Lankford. St. Louis, 32; OSrrith, St. 
Louis, 32. 
PITCHING (t2 Declslona)-Carpenter, St. 
Louis, 10-3, .769, 4.t1; Aljo. Cincinnati, t2-4, .750, 
2.57; DeJesus, Philadelphia, 10-4, .714, 3.35; 
Downs, San Francisco, t0-4, .7t4, 3.91; 
MIWIIIIams, Philadelphia. 10-4, .7t4, 2.l2; Hurst, 
San Diego. t5-6, .714, 3.26; Smiley, Plnaburgh, 
17-8, .680. 3.34 . 
STRIKEOUTS--<:one. New Yolk, t84; Glavlne, 
Atlanta, 165; GMaddux, Chicago, t83; Gooden, 
New Yolk, t50; Harnisch, Houston. t4!; Benes, 
San Diego, t37; AIJo. CinCinnati, t36. 
SAVES-leSmlth, St. Louis. 37; Dllble, 
Cincinnati, 28; MIWIIIIams, Philadelphia. 25; 
Franco. New Yolk, 24; Righetti, San Francisco, 20; 
Lefferts, San DleQo. 19; BLandrum. Pittsburgh, 17; 
Berenguer, Atlanta, 17. 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL 
American League 
CLEVELAND INDIANS~urchased the contrad of Jim Thome. Infielder, from Colorado Springs of the PacKic Coast League. FOOTBALL National Football League 
ATLANTA FALCONs-?laced Ebert Shetley, 
salety. on Injured reserve. Activated Brian MKchetl, 
cornerback, lrom the practloe rooter. Signed Joe 
Fishback, safety, to the practlca roater. 
CLEVELAND BROWNs-Signed Leonard 
Burton. offensive lineman and William Evers, 
comerback; Demck Douglas, fullback, and Newt 
Harrell, guard. to the practive squad. Released 
Archie Herring. running back; Pete Lucas, tackle, 
and CharHe Oliver, safety from the practice squad. 
KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Stephon 
Weatherspoon, linebacker, to the practice squad. 
Reinstated Bill Jones. running back, from the 
reserve list. Placed Tracy Rogers, linebacker. on 
the InJured reserve. Waived Scon Miller, d8fenaive 
end, from the pradloe squad. Walvad Dwight 
Pickens, wide receiver, from Injured reserve. 
LOS ANGELES AAIDEAS~Iaced Marcus Allen, 
running back, on the Injured r81erve list. Activated 
Doug Lloyd, running back, from the practloe roeter. 
Signed Marcus WHaon. defensive back, to the 
practice roeter. 
LOS ANGELES RAMS-Signed Ernie 
Thompson, running baCk. to the practice rooter. 
Traded lrv Pankey, offensive tackle, to the 
Indianapolis Cotta lor a third-round and an 
undisclosed draft pick In 1992. 
SEATILE SEAHAWKs-Signed Rusty Hilger, 
quarterback. 
HOCKEY 
Netlonel Hockey L..g.,. 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Signed Vladimir 
Konatantlnov, delenaeman, to a muhlyear contract. 
--~ 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, September 5, 1991 
The Observer accepts dassHieds every business day from 10 am. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's offioe, 309 Haggar College Center. Deedline for next-<lay classlfieds is 3p.m. All classlfieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, lndudlng all spaces. 
VCR, TV Rentals: Selling IU and other std tickets. 2 student ticket books, adjacent I DESPERATELY NEED TWO PITI $$$$ Rent a 19" color TV, two semesters Luis:273-1528 seats, for season. 277-6635, leave GA'S AND TWO GA'S FOR ANY Need GA's to all home games. NOTICES only $99.95. message OTHER GAME. PLEASE CALL ME have extra Purdue tix. 
13" color TV, two semesters only #@%·!=$ Need Indiana GA tix: AT 3293. WILL PAYll Call Tom x1563 USED BOOKS CHEAPIIJIIIIIII $69.95. steve@2447 HELPII 25% off list price VCR, two semesters, $99.95. Need 2 GA's for Mich. St. II Call I HAVE TWO NAVY GA'S. CALL IF ATIENTION: STUDENTS! 10-5:30 everyday For fast free delivery, call NEED 2 GA'S TO ALL HOME Chris x2441 or Sarah x4830 YOU WANT THEM. 3293. $5.50 HAIRCUTS Pandora's Books comer of ND COLLEGIATE RENTALS GAMES, ESPECIALLY INDIANA ave & Howard 272-5959. CALL GREG AT x2092 NEED TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS VITO'S BARBER SHOP 
2 Mich St. GA's RANDY 800-323-7687 1523 UNCOLNWAY WEST Don't miss Chicago's favorite STUDENT RENTALS, CLOSE TO PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE x1655 Rory 233-4767 Irish rockers...THE DROVERS. ND. Efficiencies & one-bdrm. NEED MICHIGAN STATE AND Walk ins Live in concert...Thurs., Utilities paid. Call 255-9664. $$$SELL ME YOUR MICHIGAN Essential: Many IU tickets PITIGA'S Sept. 12 in Theodore's. T1x STATE TICKETS.$$$ x4304 CALL X2532 AUDITIONS!!! AUDITIONS!II only $5.00 in advance at BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY The London Program's LaFortune Box Office. 219-291-7153 I would like to buy 2 GA's NEED TENNESSEE GA TIX. Desperately need 2 GA's to Pin or "A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S 
Please help east coast double USC. Pleasl!_gall Lisa at x1265. DREAM" Crazy about the Earth and Kids? HOUSE FOR RENT Call Julie at x1342 domer bring his family to an Irish Our Kids for Saving Earth dub, 802 Napoleon;one block from victory. Call Sam at Desperately need 1 GA or stud September 10 6:30-9:00 "Earth Crusaders," campus. Full kitchen & bath, Will trade 2 TENN. GA tix (201) 334-3804. ticket for IU! X4656 Will September 11 6:30-9:00 is looking for weekend camp washer/dryer. Grad students for 2 MICH. ST. GA. x1323. in THEOOORE'S counselors and guitar players. only. Rent negotiable. NEED 2 USC GA AND 2 TENN. 2 Michigan (as in not Mich State) Tent camp or stay in heated lodges. Call289-7114, alter 7 pm. Mich State Stud Tickets GA. CAN TRADE 4 NAVY GA OR GA's for sale. Call between 10pm Any questions, time conflicts, Needed: crazy fun-Wanted -Will Buy or Trade PURCHASE. CALL COLLECT 1-and midnite only. x-3591 Call Kris xt295 loving, responsible male and 4 or 5 Bedrm furnished house, Call Steve, 277-4749 612-227:7577. female leaders. Give us a jingle! washer/dryer, sand volleyball, 119 TRADE 2 TENN/2 PITI GA IU GAs? I still need many. Call Contact Bill, 7pm-11pm at 272-N. St. Peter. 233-9947. Sale:STD TIXS all homegame.Call WANTED: 2 TO 4 GA'S ANY ND FOR 2 USC GA X4045 Monica at 283-4098. 4850. 283-3932 HOME FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 
B & B available near ND on football COLLECT 2~5-355-7131 RON. NEEDED: TENN. GAs FLOUNDER! HEY YOU!! HEY YOU II HEY weekends. 271-0989. I NEED 3 TIX FOR PITT GAME. WILL TRADE$$, PITI GAS. FLOUNDER! YOU II X1684 NOTRE DAME PENN ST. (away) GAs-FLOUNDER! 
OON'T FORGET THE ANNUAL House for rent, one block from ND. TICKETS WANTED OR A COMBINATION OF THE FLOUNDER! professors, staff, or graduates, 650 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 271-1371 THREE! FLOUNDER! DILLON PEP RALLY month, 234-1714 Call Man at x2318. THURS. SEPT. 5 Need I.U. and all other tickets NOTRE DAME TICKETS If you happen to see Patty G. 6:30P.M. Student rentals now available. Ideal FOR SALE. NEED: 1 MICH ST GA. Will trade sometime today, be sure to tell her 
• IN FRONT OF DILLON HALL• for graduate students with family. call Bill@ X1747 CALL 271-1371. for stud. tix or cash CHAD 1205 that she is cool. Call232-5411 or 234-0379. Any responses, Patty? 
COME SEE LOU HOLTZ AND A $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Need G.A.s for Indiana and Need BUNCH OF FOOTBALL STUDSJI Michigan St. Money no object. Call 2USC CAT(sly): The bible says: Ask and COME ON OUT AND GET FOR SALE I NEED GA'S FOR ALL HOME Ron x2157 6Pin you shall receive. You're 21, I'm CRAZY I! AND AWAY GAMES!! GAs not. I might be asking for a favor 
NICE FAMILY HOME, 4 BDRMS., Help a recent ND Alum show off his x2204 here & there .... 2-1/2 BATHS, FINISHED CALL JOE new plaid pants ... sell me your Love ya, your sis, NOSEY Lost and Found BASEMENT, POOL & GAZEBO, X1762 Mich. State tix. Have 2 Pitt GA's trade for MSU 
SAUNA, LOTS OF PRIVACY ON Call Jen x4717 GA's. 717-757-1934. Nigo's in the House, Lost Over the Holiday Weekend: LARGE LOT, $129,900. CALL 272-I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY Rock the House! Group of Keys. Please Call: 4109. NEEDED: Two GA tickets to Pin Need Tenn. GA tix. Willing to 239-5242 CALL TOM game. Parents will pay well I Call trade a# of Pin or Navy tix or pay. INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
metal desk $40,swivel tilt office X1762 Tim @X4063 Call Scon x1763. Good rates. Save Money. Call me chairs $35,oak chairs $15,couch for a quote g:30-6:00, $20,rocking chairs,lamps,kitchen NEEDMSUTIX I'M BUYING I.U. STUD. TIX Call NAVY, NAVY, NAVYII! 289-1993. Office near campus. 
HELP glassware,etc. call 277-0374 or visit Angie x2172 John x3660 We need all the NAVY GA's we can I lost my football tickets inbetween 18221 Dunn Rd.,n. side of Campus get. Will trade 2 Pin GA's and pay SENIORS North Dining Hall and Sorin!Walsh View, 5pm-7pm NEED 2 IU GA'S Need 2 IU GA's for family cash. Call Don or Earl X41 00 SENIORS Halls. The seat information is CALL TOM visit. Call Mick at #2133 
Section 31, row 49, seat 29. Large Used Computers: x3242 I need 1 IU ticket Rob x41 00 Get into the swing of things with the REWARD!IIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Mac Plus12ddipr NEED M.ST. TIX Senior Class Golf Tourney on Thurs Apple llgs wtworks NEED Tennessee GA's badly for NEEDPITITIX NEED TENN TIXS-STUD OR GA'S at 3 Only $5 for a team Sign up in Laptop 386 w/hd folks Call Sconx3898 213-470-4419 CALL MOE class office
................... -3402 ­
Man (x1778) or John (277-2176) Lv. Mssg. •• I will PAY BIG $$$ for: •• PLEASE BUY MY STUDENT SENIORS 
For Sale: New, Never used: Desk •• 2 UM. 4 Navy, 4 Tenn •• USC GA's WANTED I I I FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK !II SENIORS Found: One large grey garment Lamp $12, Cube Refrig. $85, Dave 256-5034 Dad's dying to see ND play x3710 bag. Scuffed, scratched, and Record player $35. Ph 288-7182 before I graduate. Hey Fee-Antsy,skanky but still intact! eves. HelpI!I PLEASE CALL x4227 ..NEED 4 MICH. ST. GA TIX.. 
Contents include dresses, 

WILL PAY GOOD$$$ HAPPY BIRTHDAY! shoes, jackets, and lacy sexy HAWAII FOR THANKSGIVING! My parents are coming out to PLEASE II I need just one student or CALL BART 271-0759 bras! Call3270 or 3279 to Plane ticket for sale; Nov. 25-Dec. celebrate my 21st birthday on G.A. ticket to the Michigan State ANYTIME Chalk up another one, honey.identify. 2; $430 value. Call Kathleen at Saturday the 21st. They need 2 game. Call Amy x1347. Whatever you want, whatever 
x2985 Msu GA's. Otherwise it won't be a Std. season ticket book for you need, you know it's yours. 
golden birthday. Will trade 4 great Mich St. sale. 273-9274 Now and forever. LOST: set of keys on a carabiner in CD PLAYER. SONY CDP-570 G.A.'s for 4 USC G.A's. #1752 Love, or around Cushing or O'Shag. last Like new. High quality. Price Call Julie at x1342 I have 2 Indiana G.A.'s. and need 1 David 
friday.Reward offered. Call Chris at negotiable. x1116 An honest fan with a large family is Mich. State G.A. Call Chuck x1637 
x4010 if found. MUST HAVE IU GA"SI Call Steve looking for GAs to all games. We XMAS IN SEPTEMBER!!! ND MOM selling 6' formica topped x2366 use all tickets we buy. Jeff 272 FB TICKET BOOK "...I'm telling you why...• picnic table, 2 foam padded 9602 FOR SALE!! Only 2 days until Christmas.
WANTED ] benches, two sofas, 2 braided rugs, I have$$$$$ for your Mich St X2906 fan, ping pong table, telephones. GAs! Call Kirstin at 4279 or Need 6 MSU GA's. Mike x1630 Nigo Fest '91 
WANTED: Call 272-5640. 4208. $$ I need 2 Michigan St. GA's Sept. 7th Female singer looking for musicians need 2 mich. st. and 1 Ind. tix. call x Dan x1835 Be Cool, Be There! to start an alternative rock band. If Need 1 or 2 GA or STUD IU TIX. 2322-mike. interested, call Jen Adams at 271-TICKETS Call277-2124 Help! ATIENTION ROCKERS! II 1497. 
WANTED My family has their plane I NEED GA OR SID TIXS ALL NEED: 4 GA's for IU game. Will pay 6 Michigan State GA's tickets, now I need 3 GA's for The record you've been waiting for My family has disowned me-HOME GAMES & MICH.272-6306 big $$$!11 Call X1076 284-5105 Michigan State! is finally here! Help me get back in their good Call Tamara at 4768. 
CHISEL: "Swamp Fox/Spike" graces. Please sell me a few GA's 1 TICKET NEEDED FOR NEEDED: 7 IU tix. Call Ann x2808 Need 2 ea. IND studs and ga's. 
and "Listen" for USC. Karen x3978 INDIANA GAME. CALL Call Toby 1786 Need 2 MSU GAs & 6 Pin GAs. Call The new 7-inch on Assembly 
COLLEEN AT 4244. I seek 2 MSU GAs. Please help x4282. Records. Wake upI This is last years.BONE fulfill a dream. Carol x4942. I need I.U. G.A. tickets!! Please call FOREST. Thanks to the I NEED 2 IU TIX BADLY Jessica at 48181111 STD SEASON TIX 4 SALE Available from John "E.· Dugan and 
overwhelming response to our last CALL BILL -4186 CALL 232-1094
Need 2 GA's for Tennessee Chris "Dude" Infante for $3. ad,we now have two new guitarists. Will Pay: Bill #2157 ••• I HAVE 2 IND GA'S ••• Or call the Chisel Rokkline at 288­Now we know there is a bassist out NEED 1 GA TIX FOR INDIANA WILL TRADE FOR MICH ST GA'S NEED 4 Mich St. G.A.'s 9334. there just bleeding to be in a band. GAME. CALL SHANE X1655 Need 9 USC tix CALL#4036 Rob x4352 It there is any talent out there at Anything I! x2735 If you're too broke to afford the all,please call Brian at#3348 or Football Tickets For Sale!!II NEED TICKETS? 289-7920. 
record, listen to Chisel on WVFf Chris at#272-3739 Thanks! Call 4233. 
SEASON TIX FOR SALE. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx AM640. 
CALL (219) 931-0772 DESPERATELY NEEDEDI$1$1 I NEED I.U. TIX!!! HOUSE CLEANING POSITION Need GAs-6 USC & 2 MSU Jeff I need 2 GA tickets to the CALL MARK @289-6541 AVAILABLE Ill! 
x3301 I need 2 Pin GAs Pin Game. NAME YOUR PRICE!!! xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Rich Szabo is a cutline and 
Earn huge sums of money! This Please Call Mike at x1688 Call Mike: 272-0484 headline king!position pays $5.00/hourl Need TWO INDIANA GAs. 
We definitely have to work together Work involves deaning a Call Lynn at x4940. Desperately need 1 Indiana GA or Need 3-4 GAs to any home football xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx again soon. 2 1/2 room suite on the first floor of stud ticket. Call Kate @ 4225 game. Call283-2813. I NEED I.U. TIXIII 
Guess what time I got out of here Dillon Hall, Room 162. NEEDED: 2 Tenn. tix. Angela CALL MARK @289-6541 on Tuesday night???For more information, call Joe at x2796 selling 1 I.U. stud ticket NEEDED 1 GA TO THE INDIANA xxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxx:xxx Love,Jen
X1644. Dan x4073 GAME. Call Sheila X4842. Needed: 4 G.A.s for Mich. St. 
To my wonderfully understanding 
$350.00/ DAY Processing 

Call David at 277-7767 I NEED IU TICKETS IN A BAD Need Tenn Tix NEED 2 NAVY G.A.'S roommates and friends on the 
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL WAY -PIERRE X4798 3 stud CALL MIKE @3024. 
second floor of PW(akaYOU. NO EXPERIENCE ND GRAD NEEDS TWO Pin 
2GA Bet,E,Z,Tate,K,But,and Bird) 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242 TICKETS. CALL 4034. Zeke 283-1786
2 IU GAs FOR SALE Sorry I have not been around 259-6956 NEED ONE I.U. G.A. lately. Thanx for being myNeed 2 Indiana GA's. Will pay I need one G.A. for the I.U. game. CALL HARRY @2546 answering machine. Thanx for For Rent big bucks !Ill Call Bill #3718. Please call Mindy at 
putting up with me stumbling in at I need 4 Tenn. stud tix. 271-7188. all hours of the night. The first
I .PERSONALS 
2 BDRMS, $170/MO., $200/MO. Will beat any price, 
football weekend is finally here. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL I need 1 Mich St GA TRY ME I! football ticket book for sale. I am the Lizard King and I can do Party on dudes! 287-2159. Call Bill x4274 Call: 259-6956 anything.
call x3953. Love, Marten 
Protect the little critters All it takes is one match. Thrown Remember. Only you can prevent 
thoughtlessly in the forest. forest fires. ­
living in the forest. 
Accent 

page 11 
Fresh laces 

New administrators join the ranks of the Office of Student Affairs 
By ELIZABETH VIDA Accent Writer 
0 ;~~fe:~:r s;a~~cei~
O'Hara, vice president 
for Student Affairs, restructured the entire hierarchy of the Office of Student Affairs, including three changes at the senior staff level. 
Perhaps the biggest change Involves the creation of a fourth assistant vice president position, which will be filled by Kevin Warren. 
He will work with Minority Student Affairs, Alcohol and Drug education and off-campus students, all departments in the Office that had previously been under Sr. Jean Lenz's responsibility as sole assistant vice president of Student Affairs. 
Born and raised in Tempe, Arizona and a graduate of Grand Canyon University in Arizona, where he was an academic and athletic All-American in basketball, Warren went to work on his M.B.A. in the summer of 1986 at Arizona State University. 
By the fall of 1987, he had finished his M.B.A. and entered Notre Dame law school. 
While attending Notre Dame, trial advocacy, or mock trial classes, are where Warren truly excelled. He also was on the Notre Dame Barristers Team, which competed in Chicago. 
His years in law school were not without some fun, though. "I played bookstore basketball. We were in the Final Eight for two years, and Final Four In 1990 for Expresso's Pizza," Warren commented. 
After law school, Warren found himself just outside Kansas City, actually Overland Park, about one mile from NCAA headquarters. 
While there, he worked with 
the law firm of Mike Slive and 
Mike Glazier, "the definitive 
lawyers in representing the 
universities for the NCAA 
committees." 
Warren worked in the infrac­
tions area of the firm, repre­
senting universities that had hired his services for representation in front of the NCAA Infractions Committee. 
He represented the University of Minnesota (the incident involving Lo11. Holtz), the University of Florida, the University of Missouri, .and Syracuse University all within the space of a year and a half. 
Starting July 27, Warren took over a position that will oversee "three of the most volatile subjects on campus." Helping him will be Iris Outlaw, who will head Minority Student Affairs, and her assistant, Marl Fuentes, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1989 and "has a great feel for the school," said Warren. 
Both will work out of a newly renovated space and club room on the second floor of LaFortune. Also, newcomer Mark Pogue from the AlcohoVDrug Information Center at Indiana University will ser\le as Coordinator of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. 
With the three year Lily grant recently received by the University, Warren would like to project goals for his departments over a three year period. 
"I would like to heighten awareness of alcohol and drug abuse and make this office a visible presence on campus with excellent educational programs." 
Regarding off-campus students, Warren wants to "develop a better relationship between the administration and off campus students. It seems like off campus students just go to class and then head off back home. I would like to see them playing a bigger part in University life." 
"In the next three years, my goal would be an increased sensitivity of the administration towards minorities and vice versa. A more harmonious relationship could be attained, leading to more action on 

the University's part," Warren 
stated. "This is a phenomenal institu­tion," Warren continued, "and one that provides the minority students with an environment very similar to the real world environment. It also helps stu­dents to recognize the positive aspects around them and how . . . . 
they can go about changing the Kevm Warren (left), Wilham Ktrk (above). 
negative aspects in the correct manner, meaning that those changes will be made." 
Another new face in Student Affairs is William Kirk. He will act as the new assistant vice president 
_of residence, replacing John Goldrick, who ill, now serving in the Peace Corps in Ghana. Kirk, a Virginia Beach native, received his BBA in Accounting from Notre Dame in 1984. He lived in Holy Cross and Morrissey Halls. After school, he worked at Price Waterhouse in Manhattan as a staff accountant, but later switched to their consulting di­vision, called M a n a g e m e n t 'I th 
Consulting Services. n e neX 
In 1987 Kirk took a yearS, my goal security department leave of office and would be an is excellent, veryworked on Bob Dole's competent. Rex presidential cam-.increased Rakow, Chuck Hurley, paign. Sensitivity Of the Phil .tohnson-they 1988 saw Kirk d · · t t' alldoagreatjob."
entering Notre Dame a miniS ra 10n Regarding the law school. In his towardS minoritieS alcohol pollcy, Kirk second semester of and vice versa. explains, "Every two
I 
law school, Kirk served as assistant rector for Sorin Hall. 

The following year ('89-'90), he was the rector for Holy Cross Hall-the only non-clergy rector in a male dorm at the the time. "It was great being rector at Holy Cross, not only because I lived there my fresh­man year tindergrad, but also because it was the last year for the hall." 
During the following school year, Kirk served as rector for Stanford Hall, all while attending law school. 
After his third year in law school, Kirk received an offer to work for Barnes and Thornburg, the biggest law firm in Indiana and one that also works with Notre Dame. 
"I was offered this job just re­cently, a unique position that doesn't open up very often, and I couldn't turn it down. Barnes and Thornburg were very un­derstanding of my decision to decline my spot at their firm." 
"My responsibilities are varied, but include the offices of Residence Life, headed by Betsy Pawlicki, Security, under Rex Rakow and Student Residences, chaired by Evelyn Reinebold." As to his goals as assistant vice president of Residence Life, Kirk states, "I'm always looking for improvement." 
"My daily schedule varies, but I 
deal with a lot of 
student withdraws, t th both voluntary and 
ree involuntary. The 
years the policy is 
looked at. The result of the most recent study was that large quantities of alcohol were being carted on campus with negative results. The implementation of the new policy is aiming at moderating consumption." 
Neighborhood safety and students is also in Kirk's area. "We've requested increased police patrols in dangerous neighborhoods-the whole northeast neighborhood is a concern." 
Kirk, however, has no complaints about South Bend as a whole. "South Bend is a great town, much better than I thought it was when I was an undergraduate here." 
• 

~~-----------------------------------­
Page 12 

Tyson will fight SPORlS BRIEFS despite legal 
•Anyone Interested In participating in competitive ballet, both 
problems in Indy technical and modem freestyle should contact Bob Nolan at 271­8296 after 9 p.m. A new club is forming.
NEW YORK (AP) -Evander Holyfield might stop Mike Tyson 

• Men's and womens's track and field: A meeting will be held 
from regaining the world 

Campus lnterhall football players can si1~ up by calling for anyone interested in participating on Thursday September 12heavyweight championship, but 
at 233-3882 or 234-6976. Tryouts will be held at 6:30 pm on at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. 
a grand jury isn't going to stop September 5 on Stepan field. 
Tyson from trying. 

While a grand jury in •The Fellowship of Christian Athletes 
1•1\lnvlr.:A rowing coaches are needed for the 1 c:l191-92 season.
Indianapolis continued deliber­will have its frrst meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in 
interested parties should contact Pete at 271-84:66. Due to 
ating whether Tyson should be the basement of Farley. Newcomers welcome. 
l,,,...,uuJUJK conflicts the novice general meeting has been changed 
charged with rape, the former For information, call Mark at 283-1586. 
Friday to Monday, September 9 at 7:00p.m. iin room 118champion and Holyfield met uwland Hall.

each other at a news confer­•The water polo club will have a mandatory ence Wednesday to formally meeting on Sunday September 8, at 8 p.m. in the 
•Anyone Interested In playing off campus interhall soccer
announce their fight Nov. 8 at Montgomery Theatre. 
call Paul or Rob at 277-5329. Transfers are very welcome. 

Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. "Mike Tyson's legal situation •Women's softball tryouts: anyone who 
•The ND ManiaI Ans lnsthute will start beginners practice on
has nothing to do with this wants to tryout for the women's softball team 
n•u·sn>•v from 6:30 to 8:30 and Sunday 5:00 to 7:010 in room 219
fight," promoter Dan Duva said should report to the softball diamond at Alumni 
the Rockne Memorial. Advanced classes will be held Friday 6:00 
in reiterating earlier Field on Monday, September 9 at 4:00 p.m. 
8:00 and Saturday 10:00 to 12:00. Anyone is welcome to attend.
statements that the fight will be held even if Tyson is indicted. •The Aikido Club will begin practice on 
"We don't have the right to •An organizational meeting will be held Wedne:sday September Monday, September 9 at 219 Rockne. Beginnersprejudge anybody." at 7 p.m. in the basement of LaFortune for anyone interested in are welcome to attend. 
A grand jury decision was ex­women's otT-campus football. Call Kristy at 273-1257. pected by Monday. An 18-year­old woman who competed in the Miss Black America pageant in Indianapolis told po­lice Tyson raped her July 19 in a hotel room in that city. 
Should Tyson be indicted, Duva said, "There won't be a trial before Nov. 8. There's no · question about that." 
"Regardless of what happens, my job is to get into the ring and win it regardless of dis­tractions," Tyson said. 
"Tyson comes off the street," said Duva's father, Lou, who helps train Holyfield. "He's had 

ngineering student? and so many other smart 
crises before and handled them. Why wouldn't he be able Smart. functions. to handle them now? 
Math or science We've spent years with 
"Now, if the shoe was on the · other foot and Evander was major? Also smart. students like you and edu, faced with the same situation, 
On tests, you probably cators like your professors to 
things might be different." "At the request of Mike run equations over again to develop the 11,68 and the 
Tyson's attorneys, please do not ask any questions about the make sure they're right. So n,81. That's why they're so legal proceedings involved," 
you're working harder. highly recommended. 
Dan Duva said. or course, such questions You don't have to do it For engineering students, were asked, but they were 
anyinore. Not when you The TI,68 solves up to five
fielded by Duva and Don King, who is involved with the fight use the TI,68 Advanced simultaneous equations, as Tyson's promoter. 
Duva and King were caught Scientific or 11,81 Graphics provides complex number by surprise, however, when one 
Calculator, with their last functions and offers formula 
apparent questioner said, "Mike, I'm here to serve you a equation replay feature programming. That's power. summons." With that, he threw 
And for math and science 
a document toward the dais :md left as Duva shouted, "Get applications, the out of here." 
n,81 offers the

Duva then quipped, "Any other summonses?" compre,
Robert Hirth, Tyson's attor­ney, said the summons was hensive, yet easy, served in connection with a 
to,use graphing 
$100 million federal lawsuit filed against Tyson by Rosie functions with ex, Jones of Bridgeport, Conn., last 
tensive program, 
month in New York. Jones, 26, Miss Black America of 1990, ming capabilities. has accused Tyson of grabbing 
Try a n,68 or

her waist and buttocks while being photographed with the n,81 at your local boxer in Indianapolis. 
Dan Duva said he expects TI retailer today. some demonstration against And start working the fight. 
smarter, instead "There's always somebody 
ofharder.
who doesn't like what we're doing," he said. "Some people didn't like George Foreman fighting Evander Holyfield, and the AMA has been campaigning 

.. TEXAS
against boxing for years." 

There is no denying the inter­INSTRUMENTS est in the match, which, Duva said, will gross $100 million. The match will be shown on pay-per-view for the average price of "$40 give or take a couple of dollars," said Duva. 


page 13 
SPORlS SHORTS 
Brister's head nearly uncorked 
•PITTSBURGH -Bubby Brister says some NFL game officials are more protective of big-name quarterbacks, a group that he said doesn't include himself. Brister suffered a mild concussion when he was sandwiched by two Chargers during the Steelers' 26­20 victory Sunday. "I don't know if it's because me and the referees in the past have not gotten along on certain days. I don't know what it Is," Brister said at practice Tuesday. He acknowledged officials could not have done anything to protect him from the concussion, which he said he got when one of the Chargers tried to rip his head off. "That's how my helmet came off. He just tried to pull my head up and tried to uncork my head," Brister said. 
Willie Clark to retire after this weekend 
•CHARLES TOWN, W.Va. -Willie Clark, America's oldest active jockey, said Wednesday he will retire this weekend at age 69-after 10,630 races spanning more than 45 years. Clark spent most of his career at tiny Charles Town Races in the Eastern Panhandle. He said he wanted to ride until he was 100, but he decided to call it quits when he was suspended by the state Racing Commission in June for reckless riding. He said track stewards had singled him out because of his aggressive style. "I don't want to put up with the aggravation. The riding today, it's sissified," Clark said. Fellow jockeys had complained that his style was too rough, said Paul Espinosa, a spokesman for Charles Town Races. "I think they gave him a chance to retire gracefully instead o letting it get to a point where things got ugly," Espinosa said. Clark has broken almost every bone in his body riding except his left arm, he said. 
Miller gets big contract after 4 INTs 
•ATLANTA -Chris Miller of the Falcons has a good way to forget the four interceptions he threw in Sunday's loss to Kansas City. Ile can read and re-read his new two-year contract extension which will give him an average of $1.55 million a year through 1993. For agreeing to the extension, Miller received a signing bonus of $600,000. He was getting $650,000 as a base salary for this year under the five-year contract he signed in 1987. The two­year extension calls for base salaries of $1.6 million in 1992 and $1.8 million in 1993. Various playing time and performance incentives could boost the value of the contract by at least another $250,000 per year. That game Sunday was the worst of Miller's NFL career. 
Cunningham's injury saddens limeys 
•LONDON-Eagles quarterback Randall Cunningham's season­ending Injury made big news In England. In a country where football stars usually kick a round ball, Cunningham and the Eagles -who have played preseason games in London two of the last three years -have their own following. British newspapers reflected the importance of Cunningham there in reporting on his injury. "Cunningham to Miss Season" ran in the Times of London, beneath a photo of the player being carted off the field Sunday against the Green Bay Packers. The Independent and Today both ran headlines that the Eagles star was "grounded," with the Independent calling the injury "the most significant moment on ... opening day." 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Photo Editor 
A two-page personal statement and a resume should be submitted to Kelley Tuthill at The Observer by Monday, Sept. 9, at 5 p.m. For further information about this position, contact Kelley Tuthill at 239-7471 
Dozier makes move back to NFL 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -D.J. Dozier plans to change hats again, trading his Class AAA baseball cap for a Minnesota Vikings helmet. 
Dozier, who has spent the summer playing outfield for the New York Mets' affiliate in Tidewater, Va., has left the team. 
"His agent notified me last night that it was his intent to play football and has asked us to keep him out of the lineup to prevent injury," Mets director of baseball operations Gerry Hunsiker said Wednesday. 
Dozier took himself out of the lineup before Tuesday night's Tides game. Tidewater general manager Dave Rosenfield said Dozier did not play Wednesday night, the last game of the International League season. 
The moves com-es even as Dozier, a running back in his football career, is demanding a trade from the Vikings. He is not under contract with the team and, with Minnesota's new one-back offense designed to feature Hersc.hel Walker, probably would not be allotted much playing time. 

But Dozier stands to make more in football, said Hunsiker, who declined to comment on Dozier's baseball salary. 
"It can't even compare to what he can make playing foot­ball because we're talking about minor leagues versus the major leagues," Hunsiker said. 
Dozier's agent, Brett Senior, did not return a phone call Wednesday and the phone at Dozier's Virginia home was not answered. 
Jeff Diamond, Vikings vice president, said Wednesday he had not spoken with Senior and knew nothing of Dozier's plans. 
"I can't comment further until I talk to his people," Diamond said. 
Last summer, Dozier finished the minor league baseball sea­son and played in the instruc­tional league until early November before jumping to football with six games left in the Vikings' season. 
"We've always had this rela­tionship with him," Hunsiker said. "The understanding was that he could play football if he chose to and that if he wanted to play baseball we would pro­vide him that opportunity. 
"This year, he just left a little earlier." 
Dozier, 25, hit .269 with one homer and 22 RBis in 171 at­bats for Tidewater. He hit .278 with eight homers and 30 RBis in 259 at-bats for Williamsport of the Class AA Eastern League before being promoted. 
The former Penn State star played four seasons in the NFL after being selected 14th overall in the 1987 NFL draft. In limited duty last season, he gained 12 yards on six carries 
No-hitters purged from record books by committee on statistical accuracy 
NEW YORK (AP) -Now that Jim Maloney has lost one of his three no-hitters, he has another idea for baseball. 
"Maybe they can take the loss away, too, and give me a win," he said. 
Maloney's was one of 50 no­hitters purged from baseball's record book Wednesday by the committee on statistical accu­racy. The committee voted 8-0 to define a no-hitter as a game of nine innings or longer that ended with no hits. 
The definition eliminated 38 shortened no-hitters and 12 games in which a pitcher threw nine no-hit innings, then gave up a hit in extra innings. 
On June 14, 1965, Maloney pitched 10 no-hit innings against the Mets. The Mets beat the Reds on Johnny Lewis' leadoff home run in the 11th. 
"When you get 10 innings of no-hit ball and get heat in the 11th, you don't know if you're going to get back there again," Maloney said. 

He did so only two months later, winning a 10-inning no­hitter against the Cubs on Leo Cardenas' home run off the left­field foul pole at Wrigley Field. Maloney pitched a nine-inning no-hitter for the Reds against 
see Maris, page 14 
the Astros in 1969. 
"All along, I've known I threw two legitimate no-hitters that I won," Maloney said. "It's a tough league." 
Harvey Haddix agreed with the decision, even though it means he didn't pitch a perfect game for the Pirates against the Braves on May 26, 1959. Haddix pitched 12 no-hit in­nings and lost in the 13th on an error, a sacrifice and Joe Adcock's RBI double. 
"That makes sense," Haddix said of the decision. "When you think about it, that would be correct." 
However, Haddix still felt a little bit hurt. 
"It's disappointing to find out it's not a no-hitter, but it's still the record," he said. "Most consecutive perfect Innings, most consecutive batters re­tired." 
Also wiped off the books were the shortened no-hitters. The last was a six-inning effort by Melido Perez of the White Sox on July 12,1990. 
"Is it ridiculous? It sure is," said Carlton Fisk, who caught the game. "He earned it. Doesn't it go down in the book as a six-inning no-hitter? I don't know why they have to delete those. It's just something I can't comprehend. They were official games, weren't they?" 
Chicago general manager Ron Schueler said It was a bad deci­sion. 
"It seems like they're sitting around there trying to invent things to do rather than let basel;>all remain the way it is," he said. 
Big 1 0 big winner with basketball monies 
MADISON, Wis. (AP) ­Wisconsin, which cut five sports earlier this year because of a budget deficit, drew the biggest share of the latest NCAA basketball tournament TV revenues even though it hasn't appeared in the tournament since 1947. 
But while Wisconsin could use the $409,811 to shaVe its $1.8 million athletic budget deficit, it will split it equally with its competitors in the Big Ten Conference under the league's sharing plan, athletic director Pat Richter said. 
"The whole pot goes into the Big Ten. We divide it up equally. We won't even see the check," Richter said Wednesday. 
Wisconsin wasn't the only Big Ten winner under the NCAA's formula for rewarding the 294 Division I schools based on the number of sports and scholarships offered. 
Ohio State claimed $398,266 for the second largest award as seven of the 10 schools in the league claimed more than $300,000. That means all conference members will receive checks for $331,171 under the sharing formula. 
"This conference has a long 

tradition of dividing up our 
money equally" to ensure more 
even .competition, Big Ten 
associate commissioner Kevin 
Weiberg said. 
Four Atlantic Coast 
Conference teams -North 
Carolina, North Carolinw State, 
Virginia and Maryland -also 
exceeded the $300,000 figure. 
But because the broad-based 
payments aren't tied to 
tournament success, national 
champion Duke took home just 
$213,145 and runnerup Kansas 
was paid $184,439. 
NCAA executive director Dick Schultz has promised to eliminate "the $200,000 free throw" that rewards teams solely on performance by crafting a formula that rewards schools for their broad-based sports sponsorship. 
"The membership would like to get away from the intense pressure to win just to make money," said Jim Marchiony, the NCAA's communications director. "The fact that the Big Ten shares its revenue equally further dissipates that pressure." 
NCAA members voted to split each year's take from the seven-year, $1 billion basketball tourll'ament TV contract into 
three pools. The basketball 
pool, to be divided among 
Division I conferences based on 
the number of games their 
teams play in the tournament, 
is paid in April, followed by a 
flat $25,000 academic­
enhancement payment to each 
school in June, and then the 
broad-based scholarship and 
sport payments. 
Under the formula, Wisconsin was paid $98,700 for offering 25 sports, 13 more than the minimum required for Division I membership, and $311,111 for Its 275.20 athletic scholarships. 
But Wisconsin in the future won't see as big a chunk of the revenue because earlier this year it eliminated baseball, men's and women's gymnastics and men's and women's track to save money. 
The effects of those program cuts won't be factored Into the .. NCAA distribution formula for another two years but even when they are the Big Ten's sharing arrangement will soften the blow considerably, Richter said. 
"It's one the strengths of the program," Richter said. 
1nursday, ~eptemt>er 5, 1991
1 M Ut>server
page 14 

Red Sox bedevil Angels at Fenway; Braves fall, 8-4 
BOSTON {AP)-Joe Hesketh shut out the Angels for 5 2-3 innings, Jeff Reardon earned his team-record 34th save and Wade Boggs homered for the Red Sox. 
Hesketh {10-3) is 8-3 since being converted from a reliever into a starter. He gave up six hits and struck out six before California loaded the bases with two outs in the sixth on a two-out double by Wally Joyner and two walks. Greg Harris relieved and retired Lance Parrish on a routine fly to end the inning, preserving a 1-0 lead. 
Reardon pitched the ninth and broke a tie with Bob Stanley, who had 33 saves in 1983, for the Boston record. · 
Kirk McCaskill {10-18), leading the majors in losses, blanked the Red Sox until Boggs hit his eighth home run with one out in the fifth. 
Blue Jays 3, Orioles 1 
TORONTO -Joe Carter hit his 30th home run and Todd Stottlemyre allowed four hits in seven innings as the Blue Jays beat the Orioles and took a three-game lead over idle Detroit in the AL East. 
Stottlmyre (13-6) struck out one and walked two as he won for the eighth time in 12 decisions. Duane Ward got six straight outs for his 18th save in 20 chances, completing Toronto's eighth victory in 11 games. 
White Sox 4, Royals 1 
CHICAGO -Alex Fernandez pitched two-hit ball for seven­plus innings and stopped his four-game losing streak, 
Maris loses his asterisk after 30 years with Ruth 
NEW YORK (AP) -Roger Maris finally got baseball's single-season home run record to himself today when baseball's statistical committee voted unanimously to drop the asterisk from the record books. 
In addition, Harvey Haddix and 11 others pitchers lost no­hitters when the committee voted to define no-hitters as games of nine innings or more 
see No-hitters, page 13 · 
that ended with no hits. HaddiX pitched 12 perfect innings for Pittsburgh against Milwaukee on May 26, 1959, but lost in the 13th inning onJoe Adcock's RBI double. 
Among ~he other pitchers having no:hitters taken away were Mark Gardner of Montreal, who pitched nine hitless innings against Los Angeles this year, on July 26. No-hitters also were lifted from Jim Maloney of Cincinnati and Bobo Newsom of the St. Louis Browns. 
Maris hit 61 home runs in 1961, breaking Ruth's record in the Yankees' final game of the season. Because it was the first season after schedules were expanded from 154 games to 162, commissioner Ford Frick, on July 17 that year, said that in order to break the record, Maris would have to surpass Ruth's 60 home runs in 154 games. 

leading the White Sox over the Royals. 
Chicago won for just the seventh time in 24 games. Bo Jackson lined out as a pinch hitter, making him 0-for-8, all against Kansas City, since returning to the majors. 
Brewers 2, Athletics 0 

MILWAUKEE -Bill Wegman stopped Oakland on four hits for eight innings and struck out a career-high 10 as the Brewers beat the 1\s. 
Wegman {11-6) won his career-high ruth straight game, a streak that includes a 7-0 victory over the 1\s on Aug. 24 in Oakland. He walked two and struck out Jose Canseco three times. Doug Henry pitched the ninth for his sixth. 
Greg Vaughn hit his 23rd 

home run, connected off Ron 
Darling {3-2). It was Vaughn's 
sixth homer and 20th RBI of the 
season against the 1\s. 
Indians 8, TWins 4 

MINNEAPOLIS -Albert Belle drove in a career-high five runs with a homer and double and the Twins lost a game off their AL West le•ad by letting the majors' worst team, the Indians, rally to win. 

Minnesota, which had a three­game winning streak snapped, still leads the division by eight games. Th<e Indians broke a three-gam.e losing streak. 
Yankees 3, Rangers 2 
ARLINGTON, Texas -The Yankees ended their 15-game losing str<eak at Arlington Stadium, b1~ating the Rangers as Steve Sax went 4-for-5 with a home run and two doubles. 
Texas had not lost at home to 
New York since May 4, 1989. 
The Rangers' winning streak 
was their longest home winning 
streak in history over one team. 
Greg Cadaret {7-5) won in 
relief of starter Scott 
Sanderson, who left after five 
innings because of a groin pull 
aggravated while covering first 
base. Steve Farr gave up pinch 
hitter Mike Stanley's RBI single 
before getting his 18th save. 
Brian Bohanon (3-2) took the 
loss. 

National League 
Expos 8, Braves 4 
MONTREAL -Atlanta lost for the fourth time in five games as Marquis Grissom snapped a seventh-inning tie with a two­run single to lift Montreal over the Braves. 
The Expos, who had rallied with three runs in the sixth inning, scored twice in the bot­tom of the seventh after the Braves tied it in the top of the inning. 
Atlanta entered the game in a ftrst-place tie with Los Angeles in the NL West. 
Spike Owen and Ivan Calderon led off the Expos seventh with consecutive singles off Jim Clancy (1-4). After Tim Wallach walked to load the bases, Mike Stanton relieved and got Larry Walker to fly out before Grissom's single. 
Pirates 8, Giants 3 
SAN FRANCISCO -John Smiley won his 17th game and Steve Buechele and Andy Van Slyke homered as Pittsburgh beat San Francisco for a three-game sweep. 
Smiley (17 -8) held the Giants to two runs and seven hits in 6 2-3 innings, and won his fourth consecutive decision as the Pirates won for the eighth time in nine games. Roger Mason rmished for his second save. 
Reds 5, Phlllles 1 
PHILADELPHIA -Randy Myers pitched four-hit ball and struck out a career-high eight in eight innings to lead Cincinnati over Philadelphia. 
Myers {6-12), who was a re­liever until this season, was making only his eighth career start. He was in troube only once before Darren Daulton's home run in the eighth inning spoiled the shutout. Rob Dibble pitched a perfect ninth. 
Paul O'Neill singled in two 
runs in the first inning off 
Tommy Greene {9-7). 
Astros 8, Mets 3 
NEW YORK -Jeff Bagwell and Craig Biggio homered as Houston beat New York despite two home runs by NL leader Howard Johnson. 

'~u put mo.re than just your savings.J.. mto a retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, 
_ too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall fmancial health? A good place to start looking for answers is in the ratings of independent analysts. Three companies, all widely recognized resou.rces for fmding out how strong a fmancial services company really is, gave TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LE'ITER-PIE.RFECT. 
TIAA received A+ &om A.M. Best Co., AAA from Standard & F'oor'sand Aaa from Moody's Investors Service. These ratings reflect TIAA's reliable claims-paying ability, exceptionalfinandal strength, superior investment per£onnance, and low expenses. Wi~ its guara.Jilteed rate ofretum and opportunity for dividends, TIAA is one ofless than ten companies, out of 

Ensuring 1the future for those who shape it!M 
~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~ 

2,200 nationwide, that received these highest marks. 
CREF. FOUR MORE LETTERS 
EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 
For further growth potential and diversi­fication, there's the CREF variable annuity with four different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the nation's largest private retirement system, with over $95 billion in assets and more than 70 years of experience serving the education community. For over one million people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
,-----------­
1 SEND NOW FORA FREE 
RETIREMENT INVESTMENT KIT, / mcluding a Spt'Ct~d Report on TIAA investments. 1 Mail this coupon to: TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017. Or call I I 800-842-2733, Ext. 8016. 


/ I 1  Namt'(Piease print) Addr~.•~r  
/  Cit_v  Sltllt'  Zip Co(Jt'  
/ I \  /n.rtiluhim (Full name) Titlt'  Dt1ytinu Phont' (  
/  T!AA·CRF.F Pt~rticipanl  (/_vo·, S11cUd S,.n1ril_v #  

_o_r._u_D_N~"----------------------=-~~­
CN 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 

Thursday 
ACROSS 29 A "terrible" czar 58 Gnats and rats 
7 p.m. A Pre-Law Society meeting for seniors applying to law 
1 Short distance 30 Basque beanie 59 Helm position 
school will be held In the Library Auditorium. 
5Musical 31 Wapiti 60 "-Kapital"symbols 

34 More of the quip 
81 Fresh10 Visit between 
38 Explosive
whalers at sea &2Cavort
letters 
13 Small combo 
39 Film segment 

-----------------------14Lake Indians 
DOWN
40Ascended

LECTURES 15 Emanation 41 Solo males 1 Pack away 
-----------------------------------------------16Startofa hungry man's 42 Strip blubber 2 Veritable 
All those Interested In following the developments in the Soviet Union are Invited to attend the first meeting of the Soviet quip 44 Gentle colors 3 Irish republic 
19 Teeny-weeny

Studies Reading Group on Thursday, September 5 in Decio 134 47 Prepare the 4 D.C. denizen (the old Kellog Reading Room next to the Declo Cafe). This is 20 It can be floppy Devon cream 5 Say by heart not a lecture course. Copies of the reading can be obtained in 21 Pries 
48 Like an 6 Clean the slate 
the Government Office or the Reserve Reading Room. 22 Wave sound 
enthusiastic 7 Parachute 23 He painted crowd 
BA Kennedy"Interior With 
49 State of mind 
9 Ukr., e.g. 
Eggplants" so Secreted 10 Conjecture

------------------------------25Modest 28 Mount near 53 End of the quip 11 Ram on high
MENU 
Nazareth 57 Wanes 12 Minister's residence 15 To have, inLe Notre Dame ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Havre 17 Repute Rolled Bacon & Cheese Omelet 
18 Entirely 

•
Rolled Cheese Omelet 22 Litter's littlest 
32 Minus 45 West Indian 51 List segment 
BBQ Chicken 
23 Seine feeder 33 Place for a cap island 52 Like the 
California Eldorado Casserole 
24 Drive the 35 Dessert, in 48 European trees Mariana Trench 
getaway car Devon or apples Saint Mary's 38 Eurasia's-47 Egyptian 54 AWOL's Mountains nemeses
26 Neck-and-neck Christians Roast Loin of Pork 27 Sail suspender 37Stew 4t Large lump 55 Verily Swedish Meatballs 
41 Wild guesses 
28Sides SO Hawaiian 58 A danger for 
42 A sibling of 
Cheese Enchiladas seaport
30 Toots one's smokers
CottontailDeli Bar own horn 
43 Sourdough's31 On its playing strike Answers to any three clues in thisfields, 44 Emulated some puzzle are available by touch-tone"Waterloo was expectant phone: 1-900·420·5656 (75¢ each won" fathers minute). 
CALYIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WAITERSON THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 



JAY HOSLER 
You'RE V£RY LUCKY, MR. SP£LUNK£R. IT LOOKS LIK£ 
You. SuRVIV£0 THAT BIZARR£ 
DAIRY ACCIDeNT WITH 
NOTI-IING! MDI<£ THAN A 
GRAZED SHoULDER. 
"Well, we're ready for the males' 100-meter freestyle, and I think we can rest assured that most of these athletes will select the dog paddle." 




Jbfiosta£ 


Purcbale youra today for only $10 from your HaD, the Student Gov't FJF(; Office, or tbe Alumni Aaaocia.tion. Let.. Sbow tbe World our True Colora! 

Sports 
page 16 Thursday, September 5, 1991 
Irish special teams hope to shine against Hoosiers 
By JENNIFER MARTEN He has mixed emotions about ~, w '?'" • ....i·
, . . 
Sports Writer the season-opener against 
Indiana. "I feel pretty confident, 
When the clock starts ticking but I still have some jitters." on Saturday, Notre Dame's Sophomore Jeff Burris of special teams squad will be Rock Hill, SC will be the deep ready. Armed with seasoned man on punts. He made 119 veterans and untested under­special team appearances dur­classmen, special teams hopes ing the 1990 regular season to continue to cause trouble for and logged playing time in ev­opponents as it ha,_s in th~ p~st. ery game except Stanford. 
"Special teams have always Burris is excited for the new had one returner and ten guys season. who can block," said special "I am very excited because teams coach Jay Hayes. "As special teams are a great part long as everyone does their job of any game and I' m excited to then we'll be okay." be a part of it," said Burris. 
Receiver Clint Johnson is He returned three kickoffs for more optimistic. "We are look­25 yards when opponents opted ing pretty good for the year," to kick to him over Rocket said Johnson. "Special teams Raghib Ismail. Now, the punter has good athletes because we will be kicking to him and treat it as part of the offense Burris is ready. and defense." 
Leading the Irish will be all­"Rocket taught me a lot and I star punter/placekicker Craig think I am ready," said Burris. Hentrich who returns for his Other players expected to third year on special teams. play roles on special teams in­The Notre Dame junior is rated clude junior Ray Griggs, the sixth best kicker nationally sophomore Jerome Bettis, in the preseason by The sophomore John Covington, se­Sporting News. Last year, he nior Jim Sexton, and freshman averaged 44.9 yards per punt Mike Miller. and made 16 of 20 field goal As for Indiana's special attempts for the Irish. teams, the Hoosiers have junior 
Receiving the opening kickoff Scott Bonnell, an All-America will be Johnson according to candidate who missed only one Hayes. Johnson, a sophomore field goal attempt inside 40 from Altamonte Springs, FL, yards last season kicking off. In made several appearances with addition, he made 3 5 of 36 special teams against Purdue point after attempts. last year. In the game, he Redshirt freshman Jim heloed block a Boilermaker DiGuilio will assume the ount­punt on the· frrst possession of ing chores with his strong leg 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp An All-American candidate at punter and kicker, Craig Hentrich attempts a field goal against Penn State. 
Edt,erg takes quiet route in Open
the game. and hang time. 
Police chief supports action with Mirer, DuBose 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) ­Police chief Ronald Marciniak said a rookie officer acted properly in arresting Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer and linebacker Demetrius DuBose on charges of public intoxication and disorderly conduct. 
"After a preliminary review of the circumstances, and the 


response of our officers, I stand Rick Mlrer behind the conduct of the after they were freed on $100 
officers of the South Bend bond. police department," Marciniak Williams reportedly urged said in a prepared statement Patrolman Robert Culp, who released Tuesday. arrested Mirer, DuBose and a 
He made no mention of police third Notre Dame student, to spokesman Lt. Norval Williams, let them go. who was criticized in a Mirer and DuBose say they 
department memo for allegedly did nothing wrong. Mirer said pressuring the arresting officer after his arrest that police to release the players. singled the two out because 
"Under. very difficult they were football players, but c4"cumstances of responding to later said police "did what they a complaint from the had to do" to control the 
apartment management and situation. 
the subsequent dispersal of Mirer and DuBose will start more than 500 people, my Saturday in Notre Dame's opinion is that our officers season-opener against Indiana, 
acted professionally and coach Lou Holtz said. properly," the chief said. "They Mirer said he drank two have my full support." beers within a two-hour period. St. Joseph County Prosecutor DuBose said he drank two or Michael Barnes said no formal 
three beers. Mirer said an charges have been filed. The unwritten team rule prohibits case remains under drinking except in prescribed
investigation. circumstances. The police department also Holtz nonetheless said Mirer said Williams' actions were 
and DuBose "were the victims under investigation. Williams of the situation and not the said that Mirer and DuBose did cause of it." not appear drunk and drove Both players are scheduled the players to the South Bend for Oct. 9 court appearances. Tribune offices for interviews 
NEW YORK (AP) -With Stich; which was suspended by 168 approaches to the net, Jimmy Connors occupying cen­rain after they split the first two compared to 9 of 18 for ter stage at the U.S. Open, sets Wednesday night with Stich Sanchez Vicario. Stefan Edberg has taken a low­leading 4-3 in the third.. They profile route into the semifinals. are scheduled to finish today "I saw Jimmy doing it over the 
That's just fine with him. following the quarterfinal course of five sets and I 
Edberg, seeded No. 2, has between No. 4 Jim Courier and thought, 'How can he keep it up struggled in past Opens. This is defending champion Pete for almost five hours?' But I the only Grand Slam event in Sampras, the No. 6 seed. thought, if he can do it for that which he has faUed to reach the Those matches will be the ap­long, I can do it for half that finals -and last year, when he petizer to the main course, time. I figured if he could do it came in as the top seed, he tonight's quarterfinal between at 39, I can do it at 34. I am a never made it out of the first Connors, the Open's magic man, spring chicken next to him." round. Thiings like that stick in and Peter Haarhuis. The strategy worked as well his craw. The women's semifinal pair­for Navratilova as it has for 
"I am doing everything I can ings were set with four-time Connors. to win it," he said Wednesday champion Martina Navratilova "Experience counts for after advancing to the semifi­and top-seeded Steffi Graf ad­something," she said. "I just nals with a 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 victory vancing to a showdown on kept coming in, attacking, be­over Javier Sanchez. Friday. The other pairing sends lieving that was the right way to 
"I am trying to make the best No. 7 Jennifer Capriati against do it. And it was." effort. Not that I haven't put in No. 2 Monica Seles. Solving Graf, the Wimb\edon any effort :before. I have always Navratilova, seeded No. 6, champ who has been a on a come hen~ to try, at least the battled from behind after losing straight-sets march through this last five or six years, where I a first-set tiebreaker and tournament, could be tougher. actually thought I had a chance surviving another tiebreak in "It's going to be more difficult to win. Bwt this -year, you know the second set to defeat No. 4 because she has a much better it becomes more and more im­Arantxa Sanchez Vicario 6-7 (6-serve than Arantxa," she said. portant to you to try to win it 8), 7-6 (7-5), 6-2. "But you know I still can attack once." Graf had an easier time with it. Steffi's forehand is such an 
a 6-1, 6-3 rubout of No. 8 incredible force that it is hard He has done everything right Conchita Martinez. to stay away from that. so far, perhaps with less zest For Navratilova, a four-time "But you know, I have beaten and excitement than Connors, Open champion, it was the 12th her before. It has been a long but right, nevertheless. He is trip to the semis in 17 years and time since I played her so it's staying in the suburbs, away not one of her easiest journeys. great that we finally get to play from the cilly where distractions Sanchez Vicario was serving at each other." are everywhere. He is playing 4-4 in the second tiebreak, The two have split 14 meet­methodical, effective tennis. three points away from sending ings with Graf taking the last And most importantly, he is Martina home. But Navratilova four and six of the last eight. winning. broke her to take the lead and "Obviously, I think I have a 
"I tried to aim to play better eventually win the set, sending chance to beat Steffi," at the Open this year," Edberg the match to a decisive third. Navratilova said. "But I know said. "I have gone through five Then Navratilova broke she has a very good chance to matches here and I have sort of Sanchez Vicario's service four beat me as well." lifted my ga.me to where I want times in the final set to seal the Martinez seemed to have no it right now." victory. It was achieved with a chance to beat Graf, putting up 
Next for Edberg is the winner dose of the kind of tennis only token resistence to the No. of the match between No. 5 Connors has used to captivate 1 seed. Steffi said that was Ivan Lendl and No. 3 Michael this tournament. She won 97 of rather unusual. 



