
VOL. XXIII NO. 115 MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1991 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


NAACP seeks diversity TheObserver/MargueriteSchrop~ 
Geofrilyn Walker stands at the steps of the administration building Friday as the NAACP organization on campus rallied for cultural di­versity at Notre Dame. 
Possible sex offense reported to ND Security 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
A possible sex offense was reported Sunday morning to Notre Dame Security, accord­ing to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. 
A witness reported that he thought he heard a girl scream near the southwest corner of St. Joseph Lake at 3:30 a.m. Sunday, Hurley said. 
According to the witness, there was one female and two males involved in the incident. All three involved were of col­lege age. Apparently, one of the males managed to grab the fe­male, brought her to the ground, and laid forcibly on top of her, Hurley said. 
At this time, a possible sex offense may have occurred, however, the witness was too far away to clearly see what was actually taking place, Hurley said. 
The witness described all of the persons involved in the incident as white, and one of the males was approximately six feet to six feet, two inches tall, Hurley said. 
The witness did not report the incident until 8:10a.m. Sunday. 
Security responded to the in­cident by searching the area, however, ~nothing of evidentary value was found," Hurley said. 

"Security did not have much to go on, only one person's de­scription of suspicious behav­ior," he said, "We checked South Bend hospitals, the local police department and the stu­dent health center, but no re­ports had been made by a pos­sible victim." 
"Currently, we are looking for anyone who may have seen or heard anything suspicious at the time and place the incident occurred. Any help would be appreciated," Hurley said. 
Committee starts selection of new dean for Arts and Letters 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Assistant News Editor 
The selection process to ap­point a new dean to the College of Arts and Letters has beP.n initiated by University Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
Michael Loux, dean of the college since 1983, informed The University that he will leave the deanship at the end of this year and return to the philosophy department. 
"One has to look very hard," said O'Meara, "to fmd the ideal person that would have the general concerns of the college and The University at heart ­and who can do something about it." 
The dean's job is a very im­portant one, according to O'Meara. Not only must the dean be concerned with the academic program, and, indi­rectly, the hiring of good pro­fessors, promotions, and salaries, but "in this day and age, he must show particular concern for questions of affir­mative action for women and minorities," he said. 
The dean is responsible for "the general academic well-be­
ing of the college." 
He pointed out that the new dean will have to answer a lot of pressing questions, including. curriculum chang-es and r.lass­room sizes in the college. 
"The dean is responsible," continued O'Meara, "for main­taining the character of The University and the character of the college and, in particular, the Catholic identity." 
"So what you're really looking for is vision," he said, "the ability to work with people and to organize. You must have a lot of saavy about the people and about the academy." 
The procedure for the selec­tion of a new dean, as laid out in the Academic Code, begins with the election of a search committee by the College Council of The University. 
Last week, O'Meara an­nounced the members of the committee: 
• 
George Howard, professor of psychology; 

• 
Father Richard McBrien, chair and Crowley-O'Brien­Walter professor of theology; 

• 
Naomi Meara, chair and professor of psychology; 


• 
Charles Rosenberg, chair and associate professor of art, art history, and design; 

• 
John Van Engen, professor of history and director of the MP.dieval Institute; and 

• 
Mark Rahiya, a junior un­dergraduate in Arts and Letters. 


O'Meara will chair the com­
mittee. 

The committee will soon hold a meeting to discuss the general characteristics that the new dean must have in its present state of development, O'Meara said. 
The search for candidates then commences, through the committee, a letter to the fac­ulty, the President, and a vari­ety of other sources. "We're trying to get suggestions from all quarters," he said. 
The committee discusses the names of candidates and inter­views some of them until it is ready to recommend one or possibly two to The University President, O'Meara said. An appointment is then made, he said. 
O'Meara hopes to have the new dean in place by the start of the fall semester. 
Peralez Student Senate campaign posters pulled down from dorm walls 

By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Paul Peralez, a candidate for Student Senate in District 1, said his campaign posters have been torn down from the walls of Pangborn, Morrissey and Alumni Halls. 
Peralez, a sophomore living in Dillon Hall, said that on Friday morning, he found that all of his campaign posters in Pangborn, Morrissey and Alumni were either removed or disfavorably altered. He said he also received in the mail an en­velope containing a shredded version of his poster and a note containing racial slurs. 
The posters, which were ap­proved by the Office of Student Activities before distribution, called the campus organization Students United for Respect (SUFR) "a special Interest group which has denounced Notre Dame in the local and national media." They also ac­cused SUFR of sending "subversive and racist propa­ganda" to minority students. 
Peralez said he had gone through Pangborn, Morrissey and Alumni Thursday night to check if the posters were still up. He said that the 20 posters he had placed in each of those halls were still up at that time. However, he was told Friday morning that the posters were torn down. 
He said that he was "shocked and dumbfounded" to fmd that the posters had been removed. 

None of his posters were placed in public places, such as O'Shaughnessy Hall or Cushing Hall, because Peralez believed it would not convey the right message. ~The best way to con­vey your message is to be as close to the people as possible," he said. 
Matthew Caito, chairman of the student government .Election Committee, said he had looked at the posters before publication and said that the posters were fit for publication. "If anything, he followed the rules as well as, or better than, any of the other 
see PERALEZ/ page 7 
STUDENT SENATE CANDIDATES ION-CAMPUS I IOFF-CAMPUS I 
One representative One co-representative pair 
,:::J :::::::n4a\4~:::c.ijna::::n:::::::::::::::::r::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::si.®.il!ijyHiv!i~i9ttB±:~rfY ¢:q'Yn~·,:::i::::: Paul Peralez ,:::::::::::::::n:::::~mv\M@ttr:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::n:::::::::/:::nJ~rim~h'H~mn~uf;Jt~n'~~~~er,:;:, u. 
:::~o:o::KHstli':'SHitijr::::::::::::::::::::::::::::/::::::::::::::::::::oansH~e.v41HanMumtiY.II::::I:r:::n 
Matthew Bomberger 

::::::=::::'II::r:::::::::::::::Il::r::::::;::r::::::::::::II::::::::::::::::::::::::::::rr:::::::::I~tffl'G9i®JH~·~,IP~Y:?!II'IIS!? 
3 Bong Miquiabas )\:: ::::::::!Q9fgg''Y~r~(: ?''!fi!i!i!!II!Ii!i!i!:::::::::::::::::::::::M~¢h~~~:r91gi~Xt~ffi' AU&Q:=':::::::::::n:::::; r 
:::M::::::::::::Jo.e:WJUi.&ii::::::::::::r:::::::::::=:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::M:aaue.i:l¢spJoo;M~aMn~eaeomaH 
On-campus students will vote at their dorms Off-campus students can vote at LaFortune Information desk 
The Observer/Patrick Midden 

__......;M_o_n_d_a_!..y, March 25, 1991
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Mostly sunny, 



Drinking laws 

pleasant with a high 
of 44 and lows dip­ping into the 30s. 

need to be 

Tuesday, chance of rain and a high of 

evaluated 58. 
TEMPERATURES: 
American society has 

H L set itself apart from most 
72 48 
78 53
of the rest of the world in 

52 43, 
37 35 54 36
its attitude towards 

alcohol consumption and 83 43 
Denver 70 32
drinking laws. The United 

Detrott 50 38States is one of the few Honolulu 81 64 Houston 79 52
countries in the world Lisa Eaton 

Indianapolis 47 38 that has a drinking age London 50 41 Los Angeles 61 49
and takes serious steps to Managing Editor 

Madrid 59 41 enforce it, as can be Mlam Beach 83 73 
46 36
shown by the recent actions of the S.U.D.S. 

82 58 52 38 Paris 52 41 
task force. 

I believe that the time has come for the Philadelphia 60 42 American culture to reevaluate its attitudes 
Portland, Ore. 56 43 Rome 78 50
toward drinking. We live in a society that is St. Louis 68 49 San Francisco 55 47
facing serious problems with alcohol and 

SoU1h Bend 44 37 Tokyo 64 48 Washington, D.C 65 46 
drug abuse, as well as the reality of such 
occurrences as "drinking and driving" and violent personal crimes involving the use of chemical substances. 
College and high school students alike are going to· find a way to drink and drink to excess no matter what the laws, so why do we 

TODAY AT AGLANCE
still have them? They only seem to be adding 
to the problem by daring students, in a sense, to break the law. 

WORLD NATIONAL
In addition to the fact that the laws are broken more often than they are upheld in this country, they are also fostering an un­healthy attitude towards responsible alcohol 

Palestinians deported for knifings Lovers linked to husband's killing 
consumption. In European pubs, alcohol is consumed in a 

•MONONGAHELA, Pa. -A man originally believed to
•JERUSALEM -Israel retaliated Sunday for a new social setting where conversation, have killed himself with a shotgun had taped his wife and
wave of Arab knife attacks by ordering four Palestinian 
teen-age hunting partner plotting his death, investigators companionship and just plain fun are the 
activists deported. Hard-liners called for even stronger 
said. The discovery of the tape two weeks after his deathfocus. European countries do not seem to 
measures. Four Arab youths were wounded in clashes 
led state police to reopen the case and charge thehave the same types of problems involving 
touched off in response to the expulsion orders, Arab 
purported lovers. Washington County Coroner Farrellalcohol that Americans do. 
reports said. 

Jackson scheduled a jury inquest Monday morning to feel like drinking a little, they will, but they do 
Drinking is not an issue for them; if they reconsider his original ruling of suicide as the cause of

A Foreign Ministry official said the deportation order is not have to. As can be seen by the European Cassidy's death. 
meant as a warning to the leaders of the Palestinian 
example, it would seem that societies that do 

uprising against Israeli occupation. Those served with not restrict the consumption of alcohol tend to Mary Kay Cassidy, 29, was charged with criminal
deportation orders are senior activists in the PLO's main­
homicide March 11 after investigators were given anhave cultures that have a much healthier 
stream Fatah faction and all have been imprisoned for 
audio tape on which they said Cassidy, her husband since attitude towards drinking. It is almost taboo 
ordering and committing anti-Israeli violence, the army 
1978, recorded her and David Bowers discussing theto abuse alcohol in many European countries. 
said. Deportations of Palestinians have drawn con­
killing. Bowers, 18, was charged with conspiracy toFar too often in American society, the focus 
demnation from the international community. 
commit criminal homicide. most, get drunk the fastest or do the craziest things while under the influence. This attitude has ramifications for everyone, drinkers and non-drinkers alike. Driving accidents, violent crimes and date rape are of socializing is to see who can drink the 
OF INTEREST 
far too often linked to the irresponsible overconsumption of alcohol. 

•An organ recital by graduate student Ellen winter storage program April 2-3 at the north side of the I cannot count the number of times I have 
Campus Security building 3-6 p.m. Those unable to come
Doerrfeld,will be presented tonight at 8:30p.m. in Sacred
heard someone say, "I can't do this or that 

at these times should set up an appointment by callingunless I'm drunk," or "I never have fun at the 
Heart Church. A student of Craig Cramer, associate 
Security at 283-4444 or 239-5555. Bring receipts when Linebacker unless I'm drunk." These kind of 
professor of Music, Ms. Doerrfeld will perform music of J. 
you pick up your bike. 
Bach, Persichetti, R. Eger and Vierne. The recital is in 
statements are signs that students are 

partial fulfillment of a Masters of Music degree and is freedrinking for the wrong reasons. Alcohol 
and open to the public. •Adworks is accepting applications for next year for the should complement a social occasion, not be following paid positions: Director of Client Relations,the social occasion. 
•shenanigans, Notre Dame's singing and dancing Account Executives, Distributors, Driver, Accountant,It is my opinion that American society Artist, and Typesetter. Pick up an application in our office
ensemble, will be presenting their spring concert tonight
should give serious consideration to revoking at 301 LaFortune. Deadline is April 5 at 5 p.m. All majorsat 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 

its underage drinking laws. I realize that accepted and no experience is necessary.

chaos would initially break out as a bevy of 15 to 20-year-olds are instantly turned loose, but 

•USA Harvest founder, Stan Curtis, will speak to •Antostal mud volleyball sign-ups will be held April 4­volunteers interested in his program tonight at 7:30 p.m.
I feel that, in the long run, this would be a 5 from 4-6 p.m. in the SUB office. There is a 64 teamin the CSC. This nationwide project collects leftover foodstep in the right direction towards healthier limit, a minimum of two women per team, and a limit of

from restaurants and hotels and delivers it to local
and more open attitudes about drinking in one varsity or club player per team. Questions? Call Loushelters.

American society. 
at 283-2071.
The views contained in the Inside Column are those ofthe author. 

•campus security will be releasing bikes from its 
Today'• Staff: 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
News Accent Production Lauren Aquino Jahnelle Harrigan Michelle Wood Ann Marie Hartman Mike Whitman ,tacquie Calhoun 

YESTERDAY'S TRADIN&'March 22, 1991 
Paul Pearson Ad Design 

VOLUME IN SHARES NYIE INDU VIewpoint Alissa Murphy Business 
197.17 Million 201.13 ... 0.34 Mike Krause Jennifer McCarter Colleen Gannon 
S&P COMPOSITE Mike Lorenzo Tony Paganelli Mary Murphy 
367.48 • 0.90 GrerWach 
Denisse 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
Sports 

2,858.91 4}03.46
Circulation Marion-Landais Scoreboard: Rene Ferran Bill O'Rourke 

PRECIOUS METALS Rolando de Aguiar Matt Novak GOLD 1!}-$ O.OOto $ 363.50/oz.
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 

SILVER {} 0.2e to$ 3.996/oz. Observer is a member of the Assodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• 
In 1634: Maryland was founded by English colonists sent by the second Lord Baltimore. 

• 
In 1957: The Treaty of Rome established the European Economic Community, also known as the Common Market. 

• 
In 1965: The Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., led 25,000 marchers to the state capitol in Montgomery, Ala., to protest the denial of voting rights to blacks. 

• 
In 1975: King Faisal of Saudi Arabia was shot to death by a nephew with a history of mental illness. (The nephew was beheaded the following June.) 

• 
One year ago: Eighty-seven people, most of them Honduran and Dominican immigrants, were killed when fire raced through an illegal social club in New York City. 





paqe 3 

Callahan talks on the ethics of euthanasia and assisted suicide 
By MARK CAWLEY News Writer 
The debate on euthanasia and assisted suicide is undergoing fundamental changes said Daniel Callahan, a medical ethi­cist who spoke at the University Friday. 
The lecture titled, "Euthanasia: Where Is the De­bate Going?", focused on the history and direction of the euthanasia debate. 
"Efforts to ease dying have been much too slow and inef­fective," said Callahan. 
Citing the high-technology revolution in health care, Calla­han added, "It is becoming harder and harder to know where the line between living and dying Is." Because of these factors, "there has been an in­creasing fear of unmanageable deaths," he said. 
Callahan believes that the at­tractions of euthanasia and as­sisted suicide are popular be­cause they are deeply rooted in widely held values. He noted that the right to die movement 
CLUB COLUMN 
MARCH 25, 1991 
Attention all clubs: Today is the final day to submit additional funding appeals for this year. Appeals must be submitted to the Club Room, 207 LaFortune. Any questions call Jeff Stark at 283­2086 or 283-3376 immediately. 
Amnesty International Group #43 will be meeting tonight from 
7-8 pm in the esc. all are welcome. Hispanic American Organization will hold a meeting tomorrow, Tuesday, March 26 at 7:30pm in Knott Hall's Rae Room. 
Registration packets for all clubs are past due. Late clubs will 
not receive any initial funding for next year. If there are any problems make sure to contact your CCC representative before Easter Break. Messages can be left at 283-2086. 
Club Column entries are to be turned in by 5 pm this Wednesday at the Club Room, 207 La Fortune for publication the following week. 
A service of The Observer and the Club Coordination Council. 
is built on the right of self-de­termination and the right to be relieved of suffering. 
The movement, "starts off with very common values that are widely shared and then moves one step further," said Callahan. 
Despite its popularity, Calla­han believes that it would be wrong to legalize euthanasia. "It is a mistake to give anyone such absolute power over an­other's life," he said. 
From a medical point of view, Callahan believes that "euthanasia is a corruption of the role of the physician. Physi­cians have a tradition of healing and comfort, not of killing," he said. 
Legalized euthanasia also poses societal problems. Calla­han said that "we already allow three forms of killing: capital punishment, self-defense, and just wars." He claimed that so­ciety "can't manage these situa­tions well" and questioned the intelligence of adding another permissible condition of killing. 

Callahan proposed a strategy to combat the rise in high-tech and impersonal deaths. It cen­ters on reforms in the way peo­ple view the relationship be­tween death and medicine. 
"We have given up on the no­tion of fatalism-we are no longer hostages to the fickle hand of fate," said Callahan. He stated that society must learn instead to accept the inevitabil­
. ity of aging and death and "prepare ourselves to deal with reality instead of absolute con­trol [over death]." Callahan said that reforms in health care are also needed. He stated that physicians must "move way back from pushing life to the technological edge." Doctors must also know when technology will no longer en­hance a patient's life. The lecture was sponsored by the Center for Continuing Edu­cation as one of the J. Philip Clarke Family lecture series which was a feature of the Alumni Association's sixth an­nual conference on medical ethics. 

?-r?? ?'V ? ?.
• . • 0 
~ 

~ 
00 Are you an Arts & Leiters Major? 
?? 

.?.? 

Is there life after Notre Dame? 
? Have you been asking yourself "What am I going to do with a ? Liberal Arts degree."? 
?

? .
To help find answers come to the guest lecture by: 
?? 

~ 


~ WAYNE WALLACE 0 
College of Arts ond Sciences ?
? 
Coreer ond Plocement Office 
?

? 
lndiono Uniuersity -Bloomington
? ? 
0 
'?., ~ "The Future of A /., ~ ? Liberal Arts Degree ? ? ? in the Job Market" ?? 
~ 

Wednesday, March 27, 1991 
0 

7:30p.m.
? ? 
"? Library Auditorium ? ,,( ?
???? ?'V ?? ? ? ? ? ? ~ 
• . . • 0 

The lecture will be recorded and available on VCR through the Anthropology. Dapanment 
,----------------------------, 
\11 ld b ' t t d ' b · 
nOll you eIll eres e ill ecomtng an 
Assistant to the Notre Dame Judicial Council? 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE: 
ELECfiONS Assistant 
LEGAL CONCERNS A~istant 
TRAINING Assistant 
ADMINISTRATIVE Assistant 
each of whom will be eligible for the position of Judicial 
Council President for the Academic Year 1992-1993. 
ELIGIDILITY: 
Any current freshman, sophomore, or junior of both academic and disciplinary good standing who is interested in working with Student Government and Administration. 
DUE DATE: 
Applications available and due by WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27,1991 to the Student Government Secretary, 2nd floor LaFortune. Interviews will be sch~ 

Conroy wins Master's thesis award 
Spec!al to The Observer 
Hichard Conroy, a Notre 
,)arne doctoral student in gov­

ernment and international 
studies, has received the 1991 
Distinguished Master's Thesis 
Award from the Midwestern 
Association of Graduate Schools 
(MAGS). 
Conroy, a native of Lincoln, 
Neb., wrote his thesis, 'Toward 
a Nonnuclear Future: Linkages 

between Global 
Denuclearization and an 
Effective Nonproliferation 
Hegime," for his M.A. in Peace 

Studies, which he received in 
May 1990, from Notre Dame's 
Institute for International Peace 
Studies. 

The award, which recognizes 
distinguished scholarship and 
research at the mastez:-'s level, 
will be presented April 3 in 
Chicago at the association's 
annual meeting. 

MAGS includes about 160 graduate degree-granting col­
leges and universities in the Midwest. Each institution was allowed to name one represen­tative to be considered for the award received by Conroy. 
In his thesis Conroy argues that halting nuclear prolifera­tion will require the denucle­arization and demilitarization of global politics, which in turn will require a complete change in our thinking about national and international security. 
"A central goal of scholarly research in the public policy domain is to discern the truth about power," said his thesis director, Hobert Johansen, pro­fessor of government and in­ternational studies and senior fellow in the Peace Institute. "This thesis ranks high on that indicator, boldly following logic even into the valley of the un­comfortable insight." 
The thesis is a remarkable piece of scholarship, according to Nathan Hatch, vice president for graduate studies and re­search. "It is skillfully re­searched, imaginative, and very well-written," he said. 
Monday, March 25, 1991 

Ci-SLJ 
TEACHING RESEARCH 
WORKSHOPS 
.. 


Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
President of the University of Notre Dame 
Professor Timothy O'Meara Provost and Kenna Prof. of Mathematics 



REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED AFTER PRESENTATIONS 

--------------------------~-----­
Monday, March 24, 1991 The Oh::e!"'"'' page 5 




Rhomberg makes All-USA team 
/
~-~~· \ 
.o$ ,...-.. • 
APPhoto

Massacre anniversary 
Members of the Pan African Congress salute at a rally in Sharpeville, South Africa Thursday which marked the 31st an­niversary of the Sharpsville massacre, where police killed 69 blacks protesting apartheid laws. 
By LAUREN AQUINO Assistant News Editor 
USA Today named Maria Rhomberg, a Notre Dame se­nior, to its 1991 All-USA College Academic Team. 
This team of all-stars was chosen from 854 students nominated by professors, deans and college presidents, and serves to recognize academic achievement. 
Rhomberg, who applied in the fall, was "surprised" to receive the honor, but nontheless is very proud. She was selected by a panel of nine educators "for their outstanding blend of scholarship, initiative, creativity and leadership, and their desire to use their talent to help others," said USA Today. 
The students were grouped in first, second, and third teams of 
Junior tea time 
20 students each, with an additional 62 students given honorable mention. Rhomberg was a second team selection. 
Rhomberg is a PLS major with a GPA of 3.946, and a class rank of 4 out of 964 students in the College of Arts and Letters. Rhomberg also currently serves as president of ND/SMC Right to Life Club. 
The Dubuque, Iowa, native is a member of Notre Dame's Arts and Letters/Science Honors Program. This program selects one of 40 entering freshmen based on their University application. 
Rhomberg also received a National Endowment for the Humanities Younger Scholar Award in 1990, undertaking re­search on the relationship of law and virtue in the thought of St. Thomas Aquinas. 
In addition to academics, 
Rhomberg has been active in two varsity sports (track and volleyball), won two 10k runs, and qualified for the 1990 Boston Marathon. 
When asked what has been significant in her development here, Rhomberg replied that it was largely due to the faith community from the people both in and outside of her classes. 
"PLS has been a big influence on my thinking and personal development," she said. She said she has also been graced with a very supportive family who knew enough to avoid pressuring' her. 
Rhomberg also gave a few tips on self-motivation. "Don't do something you do not enjoy," Rhomberg said, "Happiness is important." And most impor­tantly, "don't forget what is really important to you." 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 




API't"oto 
Ghareem Awad Ibrahim, a Kuwati officer captured during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, is helped off a plane which brought him and 
144 other released prisoners of war back home to Kuwait Friday. 
Former Princeton provost named Harvard president 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. (AP) ­Neil Rudenstine, a former Princeton administrator and the executive vice president of a wealthy philanthropic founda­tion, was named Sunday as the 26th president of Harvard University. 
Rudenstine will replace Derek Bok, who is retiring in June after 20 years as president of the 17,500-student Ivy League school. 
Since 1988, Rudenstine has been executive vice president of the New York-based Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, which gives grants mainly to colleges and universities and fo hospitals and environmental causes. 
Rudenstine said Sunday he would bring "a passion for uni­versities and education" to Harvard. 
"I feel very privileged and very honored to be asked to undertake such a post," he said. "It's not an easy time for higher education. I think it's going to be a difficult decade or two." 
Rudenstine, 56, who lives in Princeton, N.J., spent 20 years as an English professor and administrator at Princeton. 
Bok, who was not involved in the 10-month search for his successor, said he was delighted with the choice. 
"I cannot think of a candidate so well-endowed with the knowledge, experience, temper­ament and character needed to serve as Harvard's president," Bok said in a statement. 
Rudenstine graduated from Princeton in 1956 and went to Oxford University in England as a Rhodes scholar, receiving a bachelor's degree in English literature in 1959. He received a Ph.D from Harvard in 1964. 

Work For The Alumni Family Hall 
Applications are now available in the Alumni Association Office 201 Main Building 



'Ihe_-Obseorer= 
is currently accepting applications for the following position: 

Business Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 27, to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 

The Observer Monday, March 24, 1991 

Collins discusses feminism and filmmaking in lecture 
By SEAN WHITE 
News Writer 

Feminism is not only a female issue, said James Collins, asso­ciate professor of communica­tion and theatre. 
At the Center for Social Concerns on Friday, Collins opened his lecture on "Feminist Theory and the Media" by say­ing "the last thing feminism needs to be, especially here at Notre Dame, is genderized." Claiming it is "not only for women, by women," he spoke on how feminism has affected and been affected by the media. 
Collins began with some background on film study, which he said did not develop into a "true discipline" until 1960. 
During the early 1960s, a "revolution," called auteurism, took place in the area of film study. Critics moved from a mere critique-style to a format where the director, whom Collins called "genius with the overpowering vision," was the real film star. 
However, as the sixties ended, Collins said, the emphasis shifted away from the great di­rectors, like Hitchcock, with the realization that "the final au­thor of any film is the society that produced the director." 
Instead, according to Collins, the structures of film that re­flect everyday life became the central focus, and it is at this point that feminism entered the picture. 
This shift, he said, brought up questions of what the issues and values were. According to Collins, these "ideological agendas," shaped both the identity of individuals in society 
. and the film industry, as well. 
The first feminist to address this was Laura Malvey, who, Collins said, studied how film encouraged "ways of seeing." Malvey discovered that the ba­sis for these "ways of seeing" was a pattern of "recognition and misrecognition," in which women were encouraged to mirror and recognize them­selves based on the "Hollywood" image ofwomen. 
However, this was a false im­age, a "misrecognition" be­cause, said Collins, "women were being duped into viewing themselves as men would like them to be." 
Malvey realized that through such structures as voyeurism and fetishism in films, women had become "the object of the look, but never the possessor of the look," Collins said. Malvey envisioned a " radical avant garde" that would sweep through the entire film industry in order to deal with these "ways of seeing." 
According to Collins, the next development in the theories of feminism in the media changed the object of the analysis alto­gether, to an attempt at discov­ering what the "feministic cul­ture" really was. 
Linda Williams, another prominent feminist, studied the 
"degraded forms of culture" 
such as soap operas and ro­
mance novels. The popular con­
ception of these, Collins said, 
was that they subjugated 
women and were "merely fan­
tasies by men for women." 
However, Williams claimed that although there were no blatant feminist themes in shows like soap operas, they do "address the problems, con­.flicts, tensions, and contradic­tions of the feminist experience in American culture," said 
Collins. 

In such examples, according to Collins, were found the "great untold stories" of women and their relationships, not found anywhere else in tra­ditional historical literature. Here, a shift had occurred, moving away from the glamour­image to an image of filial interaction. 
The results of all this, accord­ing to Collins, is that the film industry is beginning to realize that male standards have been used to evaluate media presen­tations in the past. Society must become "feminine-competent," and in order to do that, people must become "culturally­literate" in order to truly recognize its structures, he said. 
An attempt at a feminine­competent society, according to Collins, also means teachers and schools must look at how and what they are teaching and reevaluate their effectiveness in reaching this goal. 
This Group Is NOT RECOGNIZED 
By 


The University 
Of 
Notre 

Dame 
There is a group of Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual students, faculty, and staff who meet regularly with a mission of support, education, and fellowship. You already know who we are, but the adminis­tration of the university won't let us use our name in our ads. 
We offered to put a small disclaim­er (like the one to the left) in our ads so that everyone would know that Notre Dame would prefer we didn't exist. The Vice President for Student Affairs said that wasn't good enough. 
No name. No logo. No "sem­blance of organization." 
That's alright. You already know who we are. You already know that we have monthly General Meetings and Discussion Groups. And you already know that our address and phone numbers are below. Call or write us for more information. 
r---------------, 
cut and paste logo here · from previous advertisements 
the administration won't let us print it now... 

I I

L---------------J 
For more information, you 
can still call: 
Mike 237-0788 
Carol 232-3330 
Michael237-1864 

Or write to us at: 
insert our name here 
P.O. Box 194 Notre Dame, IN 46556 



Monday, March 24, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Schwarzkopf: U.S. close to permanent base on Arab soil 
HIYADI I, Saudi Arabia (AP) ­The United States is closer than ever to establishing a permanent military headquar­ters on Arab soil, the American commander of Operation Desert Storm said Sunday. 
The headquarters would meet a longstanding U.S. aim to have a land base in the Persian Gulr a goal Arab governments have blocked for many years. 
The U.S. commander, Gen. H. Norman Schwar.lkopf, also told reporters that as soon as a permanent cease-fire is signed the remaining American troops in the gulf will go home. And he said the United States does not intend to have permanent htround forces in the region. 
A member of Schwarzkopf's starr said the general's state­menl<> were significant because they were the furthest he has gone in spelling out the U.S. position on those three issues. The starr officer spoke on con­dition or anonymity. 
Schwarzkopf said U.S logis­tics troops could be in the gulf 
CHRIS­
AN EARLY BIRTHDAY WISH!!! 
LOVE, Mom, Dad, Carey, and 

Maggie 
In rile "\c\'1 ,!.J!JnJI \·ompur~r. 

Caito said that Peralez's ac­to cusation of SUFH sending campaigning," he said. Peralez said he spent $30 on







r--------------------------
.."subversive and racist propa­
:\l •  
M •  • I-T  
M  •  • H  
M  •  • H  
M  •  •  •  • H  
PE  LE  
INClUDES  PRECISION  CUT  li SHAMPOO  
INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA  
REDKEN  NEXT TO VENTURE . Gf'IAPE RD., MISHAWAKA  
PROFESSIONAL. PRODUCTS  277-7946  HOURS: Daily 9-8 Sat 9-6 Sun. 11·5  

.!40 w ''ork. 'Wil'' l'll get~~ trcl' rna] 
\\l'\l' lllall~l.~Cd (0 ''llJCC/C the lllO"i( 
pm,il>lt.: cmnpur~r Ill[(} rhe· ka'r 
po"ihk 'i"Kc.\\~'1<: .JI"' "IIICC/cd 
rh~ mo~r po"ihk t·nlnpur~r 111w rh~ 
I~•"! I"'"'""' pnn:. 
<)ne '"" pm·~ 1m lude' nm on h 
tile kc·1 ho;ml amlnHIIliWr. hut a full 1.:1giH m~g;dl\ rc' of mc111or1. a l>uHr-in 2 ~ii·rneg;lln re tlopl" di,kdri'~ and 1-.tilcrnet.The "\c\'l~t;Hion ;, also 
equiptwd "itil '' .lll.'i·nH:,l(•li>l·rc hard d"k.11rHn" h~th "c il;l\e wkcn ril~ lrhcrt\ olrn,,ralling a rather t(umida­hlc patkage of "'ft\\;Jrc.:. u1l'luding \\'md\!1\1.' illltltrllltlllltl." Nc\"lin;~il'" .111d Ilign~l \\i:h,rc.:r.'" So all \UU ha~c.: 10 do;, plug 1! in and You're rc.:ad1 ro 
RIGHT NOW,YOU CAN 

GET TWO BRUKTH 
FORTHE PRICE OF ONE. 
'I .~ ... ln..-10111 hr okln•r•ol .-horn u1oltl>k ,,...,._, '*X'~'(.umf.I:'ICI.Inc -\II naht• rc~Hcd ..... , l,ut.: ..... \"rmflllntlllolllal\\t-t"'" ~~~ !f~U<"nurluo4 Nc\0 rt..omf"'ltcr lnt "IIUrNo,.." ,.,,.,~tclllr ...knurk •.l\\.ulltamtk... auh 1,.. "''•llhcl"..tcm.o•k•r~>rllllntwo.lhcl<wlr,wtlwn 1 
as long as eight to 10 months to help load up equipment, but that the vast majority or sol­diers will be home before then. 
Nearly 100,000 of the 540,000 American troops sent to the gulf to help drive Iraq from Kuwait already have de­parted, the Central Command says. 
Iraq's government newspa­per, Al-Jumhouriya, on Sunday denounced the permanent cease-fire terms as attempts "at usurping Iraq's sovereignty, mortgaging its will and holding its wealth hostage." 
The United States says it will not sign a permanent cease-fire accord unless Iraq destroys its chemical, biological and nu­clear arsenals and agrees never to resume production of the weapons, among other condi­tions. 
In another development Sunday, banks in Kuwait opened for the first time since Iraqi troops shut them down in December. Thousands of cash­poor Kuwaitis lined up to get 
,ul"niprion to "\c\' I'\\'()1{1.1 )'"mag­azine. !II keep 11111 op w d"cc.:. 
\ml lo make 0111 l'a'L" cn:n mort· mmpc.:lling. \lc'll '""d a frc.:c mp1·11t the.: nrraordinM\ 'pre:Jtbh..:c.:r pro­gr;llll.l.oru' ln1pro1 1a :'H!.'i ,·,due.:!. w <.:lc.:f\unc.: 11 h11 purt·l"""' and reg;,. rer' a 1\c\'1-_carron r1r 1\c\'J(:uhc.: 
mmp11rer. or :rnll4011p!.(r:uk-l>o;~rd 
hc.:forc March 31, 1991. • 
\\c l'ouh.ln'r t:\l'll ,~ues~ whcrL'"'ll' l'OIIid make a conrpar;~hk pnr· cha,e.·llut \\t' can rc.:ll 1011 c\"­
~ 

al'tl\'" hc.:re to make this one.:. ( : hc.:l'k rhe.: spate ~ hc.:lowro lind rile lol'atit.m !iJ1if/ 
of\'ourcampu"'n.:"'idkl ~ 
ganda" to students was totally those campaign posters. Of the subjective. "Obviously, that's $45 he is allowed by student how Paul feels." government to spend on cam­However, Caito said that the paign materials, Peralez said 
I ,.,.... ..-r~·~Jiliiiiiiiiiiiii' 
~CIIkago HaJrCuttlngeo.J 
·Hair longer lhan shoulder lenglh $10 additional. OCopyyighl cj Chicago Hair Cu!ling Co. 1991 

II 

money and then went on shop­ping sprees at newly reopened stores. Bestsellers included chocolates and ·luxuries such as bubble bath. 
Since Kuwait was liberated on Feb. 27, some U.S. forces have begun helping the Kuwaitis rebuild their nation, which was looted and destroyed during the seven­month Iraqi occupation. 
Other American soldiers are occupying part of southern Iraq, where they are keeping an eye on Saddam Hussein's troops. 
Schwarzkopf said the soldiers are not expected to remain in Iraq, a statement that appeared to contradict an earlier assessment by Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Starr. 
Powell reportedly said last week in Washington that U.S. forces will stay on to keep the pressure on Saddam "for some months to come." 
Saddam is fighting rebellions in the north and the south that began after Iraq's ruinous de­feat in the war. 
Iranian radio on Sunday re­ported fighting in many areas 
in Iraq and claimed rebel units were poised for an assault on Baghdad. The radio reports, monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus, said there were demonstrations 

in the holy cities of Najaf and 
Walesa visits JFK grave APPittl 
Karbala, and in Kufa, Mosul and Tikrit, Saddam's home­Polish President Lech Walesa puts flowers on President town. Kennedy's grave at Arlington National Cemetery Thursday. 
only things that would cause a

Peralez 
poster to be rejected are men­tioning anyone's name and car­continued from page 1 rying the endorsement or any member of the ND faculty or candidates," he said. administration. "Our only goal is insure fairness in the 
he has spent the remaining $15 on posters specifically made to be placed In his own hall, Dillon. 
Caito said that there was "no hope" for compensating Peralez for the loss of his posters. The only possible thing he could do is, if the damage was linked to another ticket, his committee could impose a penalty on or disqualify the other ticket, he said. 

Go against the grain.Cut down on salt. 
Adding salt to your food 
could subtract years from 
your life. Because in some 
people salt contributes to 
high blood pressure, a con­
dition that increases your 
risk of heart disease. 
.. 
~American HeartV Association 

~" ,, fiJ, 
~.:.~
Give tnthe Unated W.w. 
... 


LOS ANGELES (AP) -Gov. Pete Wilson defended Police Chief Daryl Gates, describing calls for his ouster as an "attempted lynching" over the videotaped police beating of a black motorist. 
The March 3 beating of Rodney King was videotaped by an amateur cameraman and has been televised nationwide. King suffered multiple injuries, including 11 skull fractures. 
Since then, numerous critics have called for Gates to resign. Gates, who called the beating "an aberration," has vowed to remain as police chief. 
"I think that we're watching the attempted lynching" of Gates, Wilson said Saturday on CNN's weekly "Capitol Gang." 
"But I don't think it will be successful and I don't think it should be successful unless there can be a showing from an honest and an objective investi­gation that this is not an aber­ration, that instead it is a con­sistent pattern," Wilson said. 
"But I don't think it's going to show that because Daryl Gates, however glib or flip he may have been on occasion, is a dedicated law enforcement pro­fessional who has taken enor­mous pride in a department that I think is one of the best," he said. 
About 2,000 people attended a Police Academy rally Sunday in support of Gates. The chief urged television stations to stop showing the videotape. 
"The video will be forever etched in my mind," Gates said, adding that the four officers charged in the beating "cannot have a fair trial if the tape continues to be played." 
Civil rights attorney Gloria Allred, who with actor Chad Everett was one of the speakers at the pro-Gates rally, said Gates should not step down without due cause. 
"He deserves more than a lynch-mob mentality that says Chief Gates is guilty," she said. 
The FBI will question all 200 officers at the police station where the four officers charged in King's vicious beating are based. Gates has ordered per­sonnel at the station, the Foothill Division, to cooperate with the investigation, aimed at determining if a pattern of civil rights abuses exists, Lt. Fred Nixon said. 
----·--­

Monday, March 24, 1991 
Man arrested for theft of made-for-TV movie film 
ASPEN, Colo. (AP) -A man said: "I have the ftlm. I want a brown bag of money." 
tried unsuccessfully to get 
At first the caller wanted 
$5,000 in ransom for film stolen 
$5,000 but was bargained down 
on the last day of shooting of a to $2,500 and NBC put up the made-for-TV murder mystery money as bait, officials said. movie. "It's right out of the movies," The film crew worked with said Judy Royer, location co­police to set up a sting in a bar manager for the "Out of in Snowmass bar, Royer said. Seasorrl' NBC movie. The bag of money was left in The film was recovered a pre-arranged spot. "A guy Friday. Snowmass police chief came in and looked at the bag. -Art Smythe said Peter John The police talked to him and Ripp, 31, was arrested and caught him," she said. charged with criminal extor­The film crews have been in tion. the Aspen area for a month, An assistant cameraman had using locals as extras in the $3 taken three cans of film shot million production set in a fic­Thursday on Aspen Mountain to tional Colorado ski town named a final "wrap-up" party later "Zenith." that evening and "was waiting Director John Byrum and for a guy with a key to put the most of the production crew cans away. An hour later, we had left Aspen when the ran­turn around and the film was som demand was phoned in, gone," Royer said. Royer said. She said the re­She said a man phoned the maining crew thought the pur­production office Friday and loined film caper was silly. 
YOU'VE COME THIS FAR ... DON'T SELL YOURSELF SHORT! 
GET THE AMERLINK ADVANTAGE: 100 RESUME PACKAGES COMPLETE FOR $195 
I'ACKAGE INCLUDES: 

A LIST OF 100 CA,REER,SPECIFIC COMPANI!~~ EXTRACTED FROM A COMPREHENSIVE DATABASE Of E\'EH\' COMPANY--LARGE OR SMALL-· IN 11lE NATION 
-ONE HUNDRED PERSONALIZED AND ADDRESSED COVER LETrERS. 
-ONE HUNDRED ADDRESSED ENVELOPES. 
-ONE HUNDRED RESUMES. 
"ALL DONE IN HIGH QUALITY LASER PRINT ON THE STATIONERY OF YOUR CHOICE 
FOR LESS THAN $2 A RESUME, ISN'T YOUR CAREER SEARCH WORTH IT? 
AMERLINK...

THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE 
YOUR LINK TO RESUME DISTRIBUTION. 
A NEW COURSE FOR SUMMER SESSION 1991 (800) 666-9991 
TAUGHT BY PROF. JOHN CAVADINI 
(This course replaces THEO 227 and fulfills the second theology requirement) CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY* 0MPU5 (*CBS) MINISTRY 
SPONSORED BY
l.lniYw1lfy or Norrt Dome 
Noire Dome. IN .CIS556

THEO 250 ·ROADS TO GOD. Call #0537. 10:20-11:20 MTWHF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
ALL STUDENTS AND MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY INVITED TO ATTEND 
Ecumenical Bible Study
This course is, from the point of view of chronology, a sequel to the First Course in Theology. It covers representatives of theological traditions from the sixth to the 
EVERY TUESDAY -7:00 p.m.
seven~eenth centuries. Our focal point for the consideration of these theologies will be the 
Campus Ministry Conference Room
~uestlon o_f human awareness of God. What is the character of it? How is it acquired? Is 
Badin Hall
1t appropnately called "knowledge" of God? If so, how is it related to faith? We will consult a variety of texts to assist in our reflection on these questions, including readings 
One Hour Sessions 
from Gregory the Great, Benedict, Bernard of Clairvaux, Anselm, Hildegard, Francis and 
Bring Your Own Bible Clare of Assisi, Bonaventure, Aquinas, Dante, 17re Cloud of Unknowing, Julian of Norwich, Luther, Teresa of Avila, Pascal, and others. 
Directed by: Rev. AI D' Alonzo,CSC 
For Additional Information Call: 239-5955 239-5242 
~ 



Monday, March 25, 1991 The Observer page 9 


ND fundraising campaign exceeds all expectations 
Special to The Observer 
The most successful develop­
ment campaign in the history of 
Catholic higher education was 
a larger success than even the 
University of Notre Dame first 
realized. 
Following the close of its "Strategic Moment" campaign December 31, The University announced a final campaign to­tal of $456,410,000. In the weeks that followed, however, the tally of eleventh-hour con­tributions increased the total by more than $6.5 million to $463,046,996-154 percent of the campaign's original $300­million goal. 
More than 61,000 individuals-80 percent of them NO alumni-contributed to the campaign. 
The final total makes this Notre Dame's fifth oversub­scribed campaign in the last three decades, during which The University has raised more than $760 million. The University's endowment has be­come the 15th largest in the nation at more than $600 million and its faculty salaries are in the top 20 percent of the nation's colleges and universities. 
Construction of new facilities 
on campus has averaged more 
than $10 million a year, with a 
record $60 million in construc­
tion either recently completed 
or under way as 1990 ended. 
Construction for the remainder 
of the 1990s is projected at av­
erage $20 million a year. 
University President Father Edward Malloy said of the campaign, "Once again, Notre Dame's alumni and friends have endorsed our vision of melding religious values with intellectual inquiry to provide a distinctive presence in American higher education." 
Campaign Chairman Donald Keough, who also chairs the University's Board of Trustees, said the campaign's success "positions Notre Dame for the 1990s, giving it the resources for continuing academic dis­tinction among the nation's universities." Keough is the president and CEO of the Coca­Cola Company. 
Joining Malloy and Keough in detailing the success of the campaign were its vice chair­man, NO trustees Thomas Carney, chairman and CEO of Wheeling, 111.-based Metatech Corporation, and Frank Sullivan, retired vice chairman of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company of Newark, 
N.J. 

Highlights of the campaign 
include the following: 
• Forty-five chaired profes­sorships, each endowed with $1 million, were established, rais­ing to 105 the number of en­dowed chairs created at NO since the first in 196 7. 
"The creation of endowed chairs has had an important 'multiplier effect' among our faculty," said University Provost Timothy O'Meara. "Chairholders serve as a mag­net, attracting stronger junior faculty members and stimulat­ing their colleagues." 
• Funding for construction and renovation of campus facil­ities reached $105 million, un­derwriting the most prolific physical growth in The University's history-an entire new quad, 13 new buildings, seven additions to existing buildings, two major renova­tions, and a campus memorial. 
Among the record $60 million in current and recent projects are the construction of the $10.3-miJlion Hesburgh Center for International Studies, whose principal donor is Joan Kroc, widow of McDonald's hamburger chain's founder, and the $7-million renovation of Sacred Heart Church. 
• A gift of $33 million, the 18th largest ever to American higher education, was made by the Edward DeBartolo family to fund the core of a new aca­demic quadrangle. The DeBartolo classroom building, one of the anchors of the new quad, will be a state-of-the-art instructional facility and the most expensive structure in The University's history at an estimated $22 million. 
Among other facilities to be sited oil the DeBartolo quad are a $14-million performing arts center and a $12-million College of Business Administration complex. 
• 
Unrestricted gifts, used at The University's discretion, to­talled more than $55 million. These gifts, generated by NO's Annual fund, provide financial flexibility to address critical needs such as the expansion of student financial aid. 

• 
Direct scholarship endow­ment received an infusion of $50 million, an impact just be­ginning to be felt. In 1989 The University was able to offer fi­nancial assistance to 1,000 new students, and to 1,400 new stu­dents in 1990. 


Scholarships and fellowships have been designated The 

is currently accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Clerk 
For more information contact Julie at 239-6900 or 283-1291 


YAK COURSE 
0 REGISTRATION REQUIRED DEADLINE APRIL 3 CALL NVA FOR MORE INFO 

L~J®~TI;IT ~®W0 
~£IT 11£lP~\91> 
MOVING • AUTO • SPENDING MONEY SECURITY DEPOSIT· WARDROBE 
Seniors, when you graduate, you'll have expenses and we would like to help! We have great rates on our loans and you repay the loan(s) only after you start work· money now, pay later! Bring your letter of employment when you apply to save time. 
~NEW AUTO· 9.75°/o APR, 60 months to repay, fixed rate. 
YOU MAY OOALfY FOR ANY OF THE FOUOWING LOANS BASED ON YOOR SIGNATURE. 
• MASTERCARD-16.92°/o APR, NO ANNUAL FEE your first year as part of this special offer. ~QUICK CASH· 13.25°/o APR, variable rate. To use this 
loan, you simply write a check! ~ RELOCATION· 9.1°/o APR, fixed rate, 12 months to ~repay. You must also have our Mastercard and 
I i ne-of-credit. Students with good credit or no credit at all qualify. No cosigner needed! 
~ NOtRE QI\ME'biJ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 239-6611 
Separate from the Unlv!_~lty__ 
239-6100 
University's overriding post­campaign priority, with a goal of raising $10 million in new student aid endowment each year for the next decade. 
• 
The University's libraries received more than $6 million for book purchases, endowed bibliographers and collection preservation, and $4 million went to the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, which encourages and supports scholarship among faculty of the College of Arts and Letters. 

• 
Campaign support for NO's Catholic character included $3 million for the Center for Social Concerns, whose program·s in experiential learning and stu­dent voluntarism have been emulated by univsersities across the nation. The Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry also was the beneficiary of more than $3 million. 

• 
The University's Snite Museum of Art received more than $2 million to endow pro­grams and to add to its collec­tion. 

• 
Instumentatlon attracted more than $2 million in gifts, including the establishment of the Lizzadro Magnetic Resonance Research Cente~ crucial to biochemical investi­gations. More than $2 million also went to NO's ecological research center at Land O'Lakes, Wis. 



How to start your law career 6efore you start law sChool. 
Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT students score over 40. That's the top 10% nationwide! And candidates who score over 40 on the new LSAT enjoy the best chance ofbeing accepted to the law school oftheir choice and going on to practice with top la·:..V firms or corporations. 
So call any of our 120 centers for information and class starting dates. The Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the one pre-law course that determines the course of your law career. 
~ 






!KAPLAN 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 
DONT COMPETE WITH A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 1717 E. SOOTH 8£,_, AV£. SOOTH 8£._,, IN 46637 219/272-413'> 
6/10/91 LSAT Prep Class starts 3/25/91. 


Business 
Monday, March 25, 1991

page 10 
Auto/bank problems discussed 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN two can survive, according to added. Business Writer Fanning. · Fanning commented on He added that he envisions Roger Smith, former chairman 
If the auto and banking in­mergers between these banks, of General Motors. "Smith will dustries do not recover from allowing the surviving go down as the disaster of the their present problems, the companies to profit from the twentieth century in American economy as a whole may not be remaining banking business. industry," he said. able to recover, said Eugene Fanning also said that the Smith's management led to a Fanning, guest instructor, Col­banking regulations allow the decline in profits for G.M. 's lege of Business Administra­survival of smaller banks, at American operations during the tion. the expense of profits for the . decade of the largest growth 
Fanning discussed the ail­larger ones. "We cannot allow ever in automobile sales, Fan­ments of the auto and banking the small banker to dictate ning said. industries at the Notre Dame what is going to happen to In order for the automobile Council on International Busi­Chase Manhattan," he said. manufacturers to survive, they ness Development on Thursday. The solution is a shrinkage must produce their cars more 
"The banking industry is op­of the number of total Ameri­efficiently and that means fur­erating under 1932 laws," he can banks from the present ther reductions in the Big said. Such laws were meant to 13,000 to 5,000, with the larger Three work forces, he said. protect small banks in rural banks taking over the small areas, and now the industry town banks, Fanning said. Fanning sees greater consoli­has too many banks competing dation in the auto industry, for too few quality loan oppor­A bill waiting for passage on particularly with Chrysler who tunities, according to Fanning. Capitol Hill would revise the old will have to merge with a 
The regulations not only banking laws and allow for larger, perhaps foreign firm. work against the banks, but increased profitability, he cause the banking bureaucracy noted. The Notre Dame Council on to grow too large and ineffi­Fanning said he sees the International Business Devel­cient, Fanning commented. automobile industry facing opment is a student run group 
These two factors prevent many of the same problems as that tries to promote an inter­American banks from making a the banking industry. The national outlook towards eco­sufficient profit to compete bureaucratic structure of the nomics and business. against larger foreign banks, he Big Three companies is too This summer the Council is said. large, adding unnecessary costs sending ten students abroad to 
and undercutting profits, he work as interns in such coun­
"There is going to have to be said. tries as Spain, France, Aus­a consolidation of large Ameri­tralia, Switzerland and Eng­can banks" said Fanning. Out On a positive note, the quality land. of Chase Manhattan, Citicorp, of today's American automobile Anyone interested in the Manufacturers Hanover and and many other auto problems Council can contact Dustin Bankers Trust, a maximum of have begun to improve, he Klinger. 

The Gulf War has served as a great equalizer among OPEC nations 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) -years to repair. Saudi Arabia, reimpose its quota system to million barrels of Iraqi and from its costly eight-year war The Gulf War has served as a meanwhile, has rung up limit supply in the second quar­Kuwaiti crude, embargoed by with Iran. great equalizer among OPEC billions of dollars in war costs. ter of 1991, possibly pushing the United Nations. Other members have been nations: Saudi Arabia and Even the United Arab Emi­prices toward the group's The producers promised last strapped for cash as well. 
Kuwait, once flush with cash, rates, not directly involved in target of $21 a barrel. December they would return to Venezuela owes about $33 now desperately need money the war, may need money to OPEC was averaging $16.64 a their supply cap of 22.5 million billion in foreign debts; Nigeria, just like heavily indebted pay its share of the bill for the barrel in the third week of barrels a day after the war. $32 billion; Algeria, $25 billion,
Nigeria and Venezuela. military effort in the region. February, although the average The world is awash in oil be­and Ecuador, $11 billion. 
"They're entering a period Their desire for cash will set price surged to $37.22 in Octo­cause of high OPEC output and Since the invasion, Pierre when even Saudi Arabia has an the tone for coming ber on worries that crude sup­the economic slowdown in the Terzian, editor of the Paris­interest in higher prices," said negotiations of the plies might he cut off. United States and other oil-con­based newsletter Bahman Karbassioun, a Organization of Petroleum Shortly after Iraq's August in­suming nations. Some analysts Petrostrategies, estimates Vienna-based consultant. Exporting Countries on produc­vasion of Kuwait, the group estimate world demand in the Kuwait has lost crude revenues In the past, Saudi Arabia, tion guidelines, analysts say. scrapped its production limits second quarter could be as low of $10 billion and will be out $5 Kuwait and the United Arab The talks, scheduled to begin to pump extra oil. as 21 million barrels a day. billion to $8 billion more in the 
Emirates have turned a deaf March 11 in Geneva, will draw Led by Saudi Arabia, the pro­Before Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion coming months. He projects it ear to pleas for higher crude together all 13 OPEC nations 
ducers have flooded the market of Kuwait, Iraqi President Sad­will require about $8 billion to prices from poorer members in for the first time since the with an estimated 23.6 million dam Hussein blamed overpro­$10 billion to reconstruct its oil 
Latin America and Africa. outbreak of war in the oil-rich barrels of oil a day, more than duction for robbing his country industry.Kuwait's once top-of-the-line gulf. 1 million barrels daily above of $14 billion in oil revenues. Estimates of total war costs 
oil industry has been destroyed In advance of the bargaining, OPEC's earlier quotas. The flow Even before the war, Iraq was range from $28 billion to $86 and will take months or even analysts predict the cartel may has offset the loss of about 4 hungry for money to rebuild billion. 
Big Three to cut billions from annual expenses 
DETROIT (AP)-General Mo­costs by about $13 billion since 
tors Corp. and the United Auto it began in 1987. Workers union are negotiating The GM-UAW early-an early-retirement program retirement program for hourly
for hourly employees, signaling workers would involve those in even deeper cost-cutting efforts so-called JOBS banks,among the Big Three. 
according to union and GM, Ford Motor Co. and company officials who asked 
f,i Chrysler Corp. are involved in not to be identified. ' plans to cut billions of dollars They declined to say how from annual expenses from close officials were to reaching
YANKS EYE nearly every aspect of their op­
an agreement on implementing
erations, except for new­the retirement program. product development. 
JOBS banks are employment
A80 TIE On Friday, the union and GM pools established at factories officials acknowledged they during work force reductions. were talking about how to Employees in JOBS banks get 
enact a provision in the latest full regular pay while theyUAW-GM national contract perform non-traditional providing early retirement automotive work, such as 
benefits for some hourly community service projects, or 
workers. 
attend retraining classes. 
Already, white-collar jobs are Employees in the banks getcoming under Big Three axes 
first crack at new jobs either at
First Edition 
as Ford and Chrysler seek to their original plant or others, if Daily News publisher Robert Maxwell holds up the first edition of the newspaper with his masthead in cut costs by $3 billion apiece. available. About 40,000 GM New York on Friday. He promised readers a paper "as good as it was before, and ... it will get better." GM has said it is continuing a workers are enrolled in JOBS 
program that has trimmed its banks. 

AP Photo 


Viewpoint
Monday, March 25, 1991 page 11 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez News Editor ..••...••••••••••••••..Monica Yant Advartlslng.Managar ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor.••••••..•••••....Joe Moody Ad O..lgn Managar ......... Aiissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••.•.•.•••••.David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor ................... .John O'Brien Systems Mgr ........................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willett Controllar..................... Thomas Thomas The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in·Chief, Managing Editor, Sports Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged.  "wr;LL. IN\ Ot:f:" wMY fU:V~/'1 O'CLCCK MffTtNG w1m rn~ (%iW) A!Ml.f:NMTW Wtc:GITAND ~KIT 1'1\ANUI=A~R;... n  

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND should not give up its essential, Catholic character 
Dear Editor: 
Grace Chen ("Notre Dame Must Eliminate Its Religious Barriers," March 20, 1991) is pushing for the solution to the problem of cultural diversity in the wrong direction. Notre Dame is not Harvard or Yale, nor should it give up its essen­tial character, Catholicism, to become so. By essential, I mean that the essence of Notre Dame Is in its religious and spiritual character, not in aggressive re­search or explicit diversity. True, Notre Dame is striving towards tho top in research ar­eas and awkwardly attempting to promote Cultural Diversity here. However, the unclear def­inition of "Cultural Diversity" is leading to many unclear assumptions of what the University and students within should do to achieve this goal. 
It would be a betrayal of Notre Dame's identity to rele­gate Catholicism to a ceremo­nial title as Harvard and Yale have done with their Protestant roots (not specifically Puritan). The answer which some, like Grace Chen and some other groups, are proposing are to somehow make Notre Dame proportionate to the U.S. or even world population in terms of race, sex, color, religion and other factors. 
I truly believe that Spike Lee and Julian Bond's Howard University would have a tough time swallowing me, a white, Irish Catholic male clamoring for more whites and more Catholics to be admitted. Nor would I ever want Howard University to betray its role as a strong and explicitly Black University by buckling under to Cultural Diversity. The U.S., especially blacks in the U.S., need that school and what it stands for as a strong barrier to our country's innate tendency towards racism. 
And in the same sense, I will argue that our society needs tight-ass Catholic schools like the University of Notre Dame. Pathetic little minorities like myself, who actually believe that God is alive and want to experience that freely without politically correct secular re­strictions, need Notre Dame and the people within. this re­pressive little Eden stuck in the ugly past of South Bend, Indiana should not take Grace Chen's enlightened suggestion of becoming a melting pot for 
Japanese, Shintoists, Indian 
Hindus, Chinese Buddhists, 
Arab Muslims and American 
Jews. I would hope thatr---~~~~~------------------------------------~ 
materialistic, hate-filled United States, the Catholic University of Notre Dame du lac serves its purpose well. Sometimes con­fused and tight, but well. Notre Dame is not the United Nations. Notre Dame is a Catholic University founded originally to help young immigrant men become working and contributing members of American society. Now Notre Dame should hold out as some­thing unique also. It is an American Catholic University and a place where a person's 
relationship with God can be explored every day, in every aspect of life. 
I would like to end my strange letter by saying two things: First, I know that this letter will make some "conservative" (maybe reac­tionary) people excited and some more liberal squirm. But I would like to warn all conserva­tive bigots who see my article as an ally in their quest to get rid of all the blacks and homo­sexuals on this campus that I would sooner leave this campus myself than agree with you. And likewise I would warn more liberal persons not to try to impose distorted cultural di­versity and politically correct secularism upon me. I won't 

have it. 
Secondly: I am leaving this campus myself in just 60 daysfrom now. It will be a very sad day for me because I am in­debted to the dedication of teachers, to the love of my 
Survey on sexual harassment deserves response 
Dear Editor: 
The Faculty/Student Committee on Women recently distributed among many members of the Notre Dame community a survey concerning sexual harassment in order to assess the climate for students and faculty members at the University. This survey is extremely important to the committee, which will use the 
DOOHESBURV 
results as a guide in many of its future endeavors. 
We realize that students have been asked within the past year to complete similar surveys, specifically those distributed by Student Government and the Women's Resource Committee of the Graduate Student Union. This new questionnaire, however, is being used to go beyond these studies in order to determine both the prevalence of various behaviors at Notre Dame and the types of relationships that exist not only between men and women but also among students, among faculty members, and between faculty members and students. 
There has been much discussion this year about sexual harassment across 

friends and family and to the chance to suck the strange marrow out of Notre Dame for four wondrously difficult and beautiful years. 
Let Harvard by Harvard, and Yale be Yale, but let us appre­ciate what we have here and work to make it more true to itself without destroying it. If you can't feel this now, wait un­til 60 days before graduation, stand in the cold March rain after returning from break, wonder about your future, laugh about your past, get your C-midterms back, cry about losing your friends, .and you'II rejoice that you are here. 
Sean B. Scanlon Off-campus March 20, 1991 

college campuses nationwide. community, which will then The Faculty/Student Committee have further grounds for both on Women decided that it was discussion and attempts to time to gather some evidence to make any needed improvement. determine the gravity of the Please take the time to concern at Notre Dame. The complete and return the survey. only way to make such a Rob Pasln determination is to hear from Student Body President you about your experiences and Kristen Stamlle perceptions of Notre Dame life. Faculty/Student Committee The results of the survey will be on Women published for the University March 18,1991 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
GARRY TRUDEAU 
'It voting changed anything, they'd make it illegal." 
Graffiti in London, 1979 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page 12 Monday, March 25, 1991 
Bush lacks coherent vision for nation's domestic future 
David Brach 
Now that the war in the 
Guest Column 
Persian Gulf is over, America 
faces its toughest decision yet: 
with no more obvious threats of 
aggression, do we keep fun-unfortunately bit off more than 
we could chew and learned a 
nelling capital into our huge valuable lesson. But this time military complex in order to our leaders would take us to 
maintain the status of global
police, or do we try to war against a country we were 
b reasonably sure we could
1

strengthen our country Y so v-defeat, and carefully gamer the ing our domestic problems? support of the United Nations The Cold War has kept our first. industrial military contractors Other international victims 
in business for the past 40 
years because American have not warranted the protec­leaders believed the Soviets to tion of the global police; the be a real and dangerous threat. reasons are simple. What about Our leaders' whole military when Turkey invaded northern ideology was based on the Cyprus and killed 2,000 people? existence of the Evil Empire. Turkey is our ally. What about But the Cold War ended and the when Indonesia invaded East 
Timor resulting in the death of 
need for billion dollar weapons 200,000 ? No vital resources in systems seemed to be waning, East Timor. What about when so our leaders went searching Israel attacked Lebanon, killing 
for a new threat in order to 
slow down what seemed an about 20,000 people l,lnd occu­inevitable change in weapons pying southern Lebanon even build-up. Noriega is a case in today? Israel is our ally, we point; but using our high-tech can't tell them what to do, we weapons on Panama to "stun, just give them millions in aid. 
What worries me is not thatconfuse, and disorient" was not 
enough justify their existence. we invaded Kuwait because of 
Saddam Hussein was not as oil-it is not unusual for power­
direct a threat as the Soviet ful nations to use military 
Union was, but "threatening the power to protect vital resources 
American way of life" was close when they are threatened-but 
enough for our leaders. When rather that our president was 
we went to war with Vietnam to too weak to admit the truth. I 
against the proliferation of don't expect President Bush to 
-=~t::~-:'7~~~i~r_.e.._~~~-sa.y~th!i:a::t::o::i~l~w!!a~s!!t~h!!e!!o!!n!!!l!!!y!!!r!!!e!!!a!!:so::::n~
1 


we were there. It wasn't the only reason. 
But when confronted with the question of oil, Bush clung to his Amnesty International re­port and sung our rhetoric about naked aggression. I didn't even expect Bush to admit that oil was the primary reason, because although it was, I believe that our president was able to convince himself that it wasn't. But Bush could not even admit to his own people the ob­vious: that oil was a major rea­son for our troops presence in the Gulf. 
Bush is a great military pres­
ident. He has proven that. Unfortunately, he has no coher­ent vision for the future of the country he "leads." His New World Order, while calling for American values to he implemented on a global scale, ignores the people of his own country who are in need. The Bush Administration constantly expresses concern over "uustable" areas, but the United States cannot be responsible for regional pockets of instability because they may ultimately threaten Bush's New World Order 
Every 24 hours more teenagers die on the streets in the U.S. than all the casualties of the ground war in Iraq. Thirty three million Americans have no health insurance. Volunteer organizations are the primary source of new housing for the poor. Improving the efficiency of American cars by three miles per gallon would save the equivalent of all the oil we import from Kuwait and Saudi Arabia combined; yet our leader calls not for conservation measures in his new energy plan, but rather for the opening up of our last untouched wildlife refuge for oil drilling that would yield, at most, enough oil to last for three years. 
Bush has clearly shown that he is Commander in Chief of our armed forces. But the war is over and it is time to define our national interests. 
Our president has certainly realized one of his objectives in the Persian Gulf: he has relegit­imized America's military ma­chine and validated military so­lutions. However, we can not afford to keep feeding an insa­tiable "defense" budget. Now that Americans are still on a nationalistic high the question presents itself more plainly than ever before: do we now have the obligation to funnel huge amounts of capital into the U.S. military in order to be the global police or do we maintain a military only for a last resort? One can only hope that national pride in our military forces will be replaced by a genuine concern for the basic human needs of all our citizens, and that threats of evil empires and new Hitlers will yield to threats of economic and social disaster at home. 
David Brach is a junior an­thropology and science, tech­nology and values major. 
Theft of American flag provoked appropriate emotional response 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Mark Engel's misguided inter­pretation of my letter concern­ing the theft of my American flag. Although I'm not sure, his point seems to be that I was much too emotional and should not have personally insulted the people who were responsible for my distress. Apparently, Mr. Engel believes that I was more interested in venting my frustration on men in general. My letter showed a "lack of control" and was not based on fact. 
I beg to differ. My flag was stolen, and I know for a fact that at least two guys were re­sponsible. I thought it important to clarify that they were two males so that I would not be accused of an unfounded as­sumption. As for the complaint that I was over emotional, I can only say that I had every right to be. Let's face it, stealing an American flag ranks right up there with mugging Mother Theresa. 
Mr. Engel criticizes my word choices, specifically, "pond scum" and "spineless cretins." I chose those words carefully and will stand behind them. While I do not mean to suggest that someone's biology experiment escaped from Galvin and ate my flag, I do indeed consider someone who mistreats the stars and stripes to be an extremely low form of life. I am also quite confident that my de­scription of the thieves as being profoundly ignorant and stupid was accurate 
Let me clarify the facts: I hung the American flag to show support for the troops who were willing to fight and die for this country and every value that it stands for. Some people who obviously do not agree with this point of view decided to infringe upon my right of expression. A political view that supports the supression of conflicting opinion is indeed warped, certainly contrary to American values, and defmitely not the kind of action that one would expect from an intelligent person who realizes the exceptionalism of the American political system. 
I am not ashamed to admit that my letter, or my "personal vendetta," as Mr. Engel chooses to call it, represented an emo­tional response on my part. What other kind of reaction is there when the country is at war and its flag is mistreated by American citizens? 
Jo Delorenzo 
Pasquerilla West 
March 7, 1991 


Kentucky Harvest founder will speak on food recycling 
Dear Editor: 
On Monday, March 25, at 7:30 p.m., a man comes to Notre Dame with many ideas and a need for help. You can become involved and make a change which should have been made long ago. 
In 1987, Stan Curtis founded a non-profit organization called Kentucky Harvest in Louisville, Kentucky to collect leftover food from hospitals, hotels, restaurants, bakeries, caterers, wholesalers and retailers. Volunteers pick up the food and then deliver it to local shelters and soup kitchens. This enables the missions to put their funds toward other needs such as medical care, education and maintenance of the facility. 
The idea has grown in USA Harvest and over 41 cities across the nation have begun a chapter. Currently, the interest is expanding internationally. 
This program is yet another form of recycling, saving not only the world but the people who inhabit it. There is no justification for waste. Come listen to Stan Curtis speak at the .esc and find out how you can help. 
After all, if not us, who? If not now, when? 
Katherine Mapother Breen-Phillips Hall March 22, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
In a recent issue of The Observer, there was an article by Christine Walsh regarding Notre Dame attempting to im­prove their research program at the expense of undergradu­ate education. It is my opinion that Notre Dame's commitment should be to improve the qual­ity of undergraduate education and that should be their main focus. 
When we are spending $16,000 annually for our son's education there, we expect that he will receive quality under­graduate education. I can't see that the research program will assist him at all. I would hope that the administration and faculty would make a strong commitment to the undergrad­uate program. 
Believe me, I plan to follow­up on this research vs. quality undergraduate education and would appreciate your dedica­tion to undergraduate excel­lence. 
Emil J. Kluck Yakima, Wash. March 13, 1991 


Accent 
Monday, March 25, 1991 
Stanford studs display male bonding and raw talent 
By JENNIFER GUERIN country hicks, multi-faceted 
Accent Writer young men. other smell, what would that be 
These two made a lasting and why?.. Beef, because of a 
Men at Stanford like to be first impression by rolling onto childhood fascination with 
seen in their underwear. stage sporting one pair of McDonald's. Now that's enter­
Before you draw any bizarre tainment.
overalls and boots between the 
conclusions about the two of them. Point number one The miscellaneous skits that 
preceding statement, let me for men being seen in their un­broke up the four competitions 
just say ... you're probably right. derwear. ranged from crude to profound 
But let's talk about that later. The studs gave new meaning to reflective of raw talent. "A 
"Mr. Stanford 1991" brought to. swimwear. Without Notre Dame Moment," a play 
laughter, music, and (despite question, freshman Bill Kempf off the university's austere 
what you may be thinking) even television advertisements, hitmade a name for himself with 
a little bit of class to this summer's new style-the home with jokes about money 
Washington Hall on Saturday Saran Wrap. Sporting blue­and sports, but bordered on 
night. This a review, so as a tinted cellophane briefs and tactless with references to 
reporter I must draw a showing absolutely no fresh­racism and lack of diversity. 
conclusion: in honor of Siskel All of the musicians whoman-like humility in his deliv­
and Ebert, I shall say right ery, Kempf had people rolling performed had skill. There 
away-thumbs up. in their seats. was a blues band, an Irish flute 
The night was definitely too Next in line was Chris Ebert, player, and a piano player 
long, but I was impressed. I whose solo synchronized whose distortion of the words 
saw musicians, comedians, swimming in a baby pool to Billy Joel's "And So it Goes" 
even some classy guys. All brought back memories of was modified by pure expertise 
were victims of male bonding, Martin Short's Saturday Night and a good voice. 
but they claimed to be nothing Live routine. Finally, "Brendan and 
else. They raised money for Dennis's Slide Show" was one 
charity and enjoyed themselves Talent. Ha. Comedy long display of Stanford men at 
immensely. As a voluntary probably would have been a their best. (In their 
better title for this competition, The
viewer, I could ask for no more. underwear?) rules of 
although some of the contes­objective reporting render me 
Despite Stanford Hall vice tants did display mastery of unable to comment on the 
president Chris Infante's claim their professed talents. overpowering presence of 
that this show was not, by any pictures representing intoxi­
means, about base humor, I Hob Hegedus' interpretation cated men in briefs, but I am 
believe ex-Mr. Stanford Ted Leo of Beethoven's "Moonlight able to draw conclusions: 
summed up when he predicted, Sonata" was surprisingly good namely, that these guys are in­
at 7:46 p.m., "a night filled with considering he prefaced his credibly comfortable being seen 
performance with, "Well, I can't 
bad humor and other ... things." wearing next to nothing. 
From the formal wear read music and I really don't Despite constant cracks on competition to the question and residents of Zahm, Keenan, and
know how to play the piano." 
answer session, I could not help His accordion (Yes, accordion. Dillon, and on females in wondering whether I should be As in Lawrence Welk. You are general, the Stanford Studs did laughing or taking ofTcnsc with not dreaming.) became the redeem themselves with class 
the skits of the studs. highlight of the talent show. and minimal embarrassment. After deciding to take From polka to fight song, I Sean Gilboy, an R.A. and one of everything with a grain of salt, couldn't help smile at this one. the masters of ceremonies, 
Then again, how could I recognized the intended
I concluded that the pageant 
was an entertaining way to possibly overlook Turbyville's lightheartedness of all jokes spend a Saturday night. For classic rendering of an and skits. three and a half hours, emcees 
appendix operation, John Stoj's 
Joe Bratetich and Scan Gilboy near perfect (?!?) Barry Gilboy's partner Joe Bratetich 
carried viewers through the Manilow's "Weekend in New mentioned figures close to the 
England" on the electric guitar,
antics of nine contestants and hearts and minds of Stanford various Stanford residents. or Mike Donnino as "Super residents and encouraged 
The evening's Donnino"? A matter of taste, I everyone to remember them in
program 

included an introduction by the suppose. prayer. He also reminded 
band Chisel, whose sound was The question and answer viewers that proceeds from this 
enhanced by a music selection period revealed the humor and contest are donated to the 
wit of all competitors, who Logan Center in South Bend. 
of which anyone could approve: from Soft Cell to Sesame Street, thought surprisingly quickly on A senior came out on stage and even the favorite (at least their feet when approached and urged the audience to keep for the Stanford guys; must 
with off-the-wall inquiries. things in perspective, and the have been an inside joke) Chris Ebert became the self­new Mr. Stanford Chris Ford "Jesse's Girl" by Hick proclaimed Blue Jogger. thanked his friends and Springfield. Enough said. hallmates, stepping into his 
year as king with both humor 
Prefacing the entire My personal favorite: Adrian and respectability. competition was the firm claim Enzastiga's answer to the "We just do too much male by president Erik Milito that question regarding what bonding in Stanford; it's been 
"Mr. Stanford," now in its ninth positions he would play Notre said." Bratetich summed up year, was a respectable event 
Dame girls in if they were Mr. Stanford with these perfect that did not evolve from a de­allowed on the football roster. words. Or perhaps it was Bill sire to emulate the Keenan Avoiding all predictable Kempf when he claimed to 
cliches, he responded, "I'd let attempt to "amaze, delight,
Hcvuc. Sure enough, Stanford gave enough evidence through­them play wherever they amuse and even annoy" the au­out the show of its distaste (all 
wanted, 'cause I sure don't dience. know what they want." 
in good fun, of course) for other dorms. Men with pride, you The winner? The new Mr. The "Mr. Stanford" pageant say? OK. I'll give you that. Stanford? Sophomore Chris dragged at times, full of inside 
Ford. In all categories, Ford jokes directed clearly at
The body of the. show Pncompassed four categories of displayed unmatched creativity Stanford residents. Girls were 
t·ompf~tition for the contestants: and quick wit. His first offended, 'itanford rector Bill formal wear, swimwear, talent, appearance on stage was as Kirk was en.L.arrassed beyond and question and answer. To "Sammy Vanilli" (let your mind recognition, and everyone got 
elaborate on each contestant's wander), his next as the Grim to see lots of men running entry in each category would Hoeper dressed in women's lin­around in their underwear. In take days, but a few highlights gerie. other words, it was one big 
must be noted. For the talent competition, male-bonding experience. In the formal wear category, Ford followed a long in­However, if you're going to 
sophomore Joe Turbyville's troduction with the following have a male-bonding ex­representation of a banana feat: threading shoelace string perience, why not take it to the elicited chuckles from the eight licorice up his nose and pulling extreme, have a good time, and 
judges (female students of it out through his mouth. Yes, give the money to charity? Notre Dame and Saint Mary's) ladies and gentleman, this Make it to "Mr. Stanford 1992." and the rest of the crowd. man's talent was You'll be entertained for a good Ills closest competition came immeasurable. cause and you won't be 
from juniors John Donohoe and If Chris Ford could replace disappointed. If you're lucky, Kevin Sullivan, representing the smell of ethanol on the maybe you'll be privileged Homer and Coother: brothers, Notre Dame campus with any enough to see Chris Ford 
reenact his licorice trick. 


... 

By MAUREEN 
GALLAGHER 
Accent Writer 
What is forbidden about "Forbidden Broadway?" Find out tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Some of the biggest stars, shows and personalities of stage will be roasted in the national touring production of "Forbidden Broadway." 
This production is a witty spoof of some of Broadway's best and worst moments. Some of the features include updat~d versions of favorites .,·,ch as "Phantom of the Opera," "Les Miserables," and "Cats." No one is spared, and notable leading men, women, producers, and playwrights such as Mandy Patinkin, Madonna, David Mamet, and Jerome Hobbins get their fair share of teasing. 
Some of the special moments of the show give meaning to favorite show tunes appropriate to this day and age. The character Tevye from "Fiddler on the Roof" sings "Ambition" in which he explains how he became an actor. A little bit older Little Orphan Annie croons to the audience "I'm 30 years old, Tomorrow." 
Also, there is the emotional "Don't Cry for Me, Barbara Streisand," where the lead character from "Evita" shows her concern not for Argentina, but for all of the actresses who want to portray her in a movie. 
"Forbidden Broadway" is a clever commentary of the cur­rent status of Broadway art a11d business. Gerard Alessandrini is the writer, composer and creator of this amusing musical comedy which had been touring 
• 

nationally for the past year. 
Tickets for "Forbidden Broadway" are available at the Saint Mary's box office, located in 0' Laughlin Auditorium, from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Tickets are priced at $13 and $11, and Visa and Mastercard orders are accepted by phone at (219) 284-4626. 

Accent 
page 14 Monday, March 25, 1991 
Student exchange with Xavier promotes diversity 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Since Notre Dame is lacking an extension in New Orleans, a partnership with Xavier University may give students and faculty a permanent taste of what Mardi Gras is all about. 
And at the same time, it would afford both schools numerous cultural and 
educationalbenefi~. 
"We're saying it's a partner­ship, a collaborative." accord­ing to Roland Smith, executive assistant to the president. "We're in the process of trying to defme it." 
What Smith, and counter­parts at the New Orleans, LA. school are trying to defme is a special relationship between Notre Dame and Xavier, the only historically Black, Catholic university in the nation. 
Smith said the idea for the partnership arose a few years ago, after Xavier's President, Norman Francis, received an honorary degree from Notre Dame. Conversations with Father Edward Malloy; University President, led to al­most two years of meetings be­tween members of both school's faculty and administration that have fmally made the dream a reality. 

The goal at hand this spring is, according to Smith, "To make a statement outlining the relationship that we hope to develop." Last week, a delega­tion of four representatives from Xavier met with ND ad­ministration, faculty, and stu­den~ to discuss what could be the fmal planning stages of the partnership. 
Uniting Notre Dame and Xavier: Strength In numbers 
•Undergraduate student ex­changes may be the frrst stage in implementing this joint rela­tionship. Plans are in the works for two studen~ from Xavier to attend Notre Dame for a semester next year, and for two ND students to attend Xavier as well, according to Heidi Lovett, 

-
president of Xavier's Student Government Association. 
The purpose of the student exchange is cultural education, "to have diversity before you graduate," Lovett said. 
Funding the exchange pro­gram is a drawback, as the goal is to keep the program set up so that studen~ pay only what they would pay at their home school. Thus, it has been determined that the program can only accommodate four studen~ per year in the begin­ning, Lovett said. 
Another reason for the low number of students to partici­pate is the shock factor, for sending a large group of stu­dents into a completely alien environment might do more harm than !!ood. "We're trvin!! to make the atmospheres as relaxed as possible," Lovett said. 
•Graduate school is a major area that the partnership will address, and Smith hopes that more Xavier studen~ will con­sider Notre Dame for graduate work. "One of the key motivat­ing elements is how we could work together to increase the pool of African-Americans pur­suing academic careers," Smith said. 
He noted th'at the number of African-Americans pursuing doctorate degrees is very low, saying, "we need. to get African-Americans thinking about graduate school." 

Getting Xavier students started on research while in undergraduate school may be part of the key to "tearing down the mystique" that sur­rounds graduate school, Smith said. 
"Whatever we do, either di­rectly or indirectly, we hope will tie into that goal." 

•Faculty will also benefit from the partnership, Smith said. Ideas for faculty ex­changes for periods of a semester and a year have been discussed, as have ideas for joint research and publication from professors of both schools. 
The sharing of administration to learn new techniques is also being considered, according to Smith. 
•Foreign studies programs at Notre Dame will hopefully be made available to Xavier stu­den~. he added. 
Xavier University: Just the facts 

"Xavier is a lot like Notre Dame, on a smaller scale," Smith said, citing a prevalent sense of community that may be attributed to a combination of size and religious sentiment. 
Xavier boasts an enrollment of approximately 2,900 stu­dents from 31 states and 23 foreign countries. The school has seen a phenomenal growth within the last ten years, Smith said, jumping from a student body of 1,900 in 1985 to close to 3,000 today. 
Ninety percent of the student body is African-American, and Xavier is the nation's second largest producer of African­American students for medical and dental schools. 
Xavier's science programs have virtually put the school on the map, as the following facts indicate: 
• 
I~ College of Pharmacy has the highest African-American enrollment among all pharmacy schools in the nation. 

•Eighty 
percent of its stu­den~ who apply to medical or dental school are accepted, putting Xavier well above the national average of 50 percent. 

•Xavier 
places more African­Americans in medical schools than all other Louisiana colleges and universities combined. 


Life at Xavier is, unlike ·Notre Dame, according to Lovett, "not really conducive to living on campus." Located in the heart of the city, with an expressway and a canal as borders, Xavier faces housing problems like many big-city schools. 
The school has three dormi­tories which house a total of about 800 students, Lovett said. Each dorm is single-sex and visitation with members of the opposite sex is limited to lobby areas only. 
Approximately 60 percent of 
the Xavier's student body lives 
off-campus, allowing them to 
take full advantage of the city's 
culture and entertainment, as 
well as the freedom of more 
open visitation, she said. 
Student government at Xavier tends to focus more on human relations issues, according to Lovett. She explained that open forums are often held to discuss key issues like relations with administration. 
The curriculum at Xavier is another common topic of stu­dent government discussion, Lovett said. The notion of an Afrocentric curriculum versus just an African-American pro­gram makes Xavier different than many schools with respect to class content. She explained that at Xavier, classes are taught "from the humanist view ... a human perspective of his­tory the way history should be taught." 
Financial concerns are yet another facet of student gov­ernment, as Lovett explained that social feelings about com­panies that refuse to divest from South Africa come into conflict with feelings about funding for the university. 
"All companies have some indirect or direct ties with South Africa," she said. "We're not just talking about not taking money from Coke. The problem is bigger than that." 
For now, the problem at hand for Lovett was catching a plane back to New Orleans in time to participate in a weekend full of social and service activities with other Xavierites. Although she said she saw defmite differ­ences in the two schools, Lovett thinks the partnership will be beneficial for all involved. 
"Notre Dame may get African-American candidates 


Photo courtesy NDPublic Relations and Information Roland Smith, Executive Assistant to the president at NO, works toward the implementation of a partnership with Xavier University. 
for graduate school that they from that how to be more con-would not have had," she said. ducive to that environment." 
T_he ~avier benefit will b~ in Smith agreed that the part­switchmg cultures, learnmg nership will be equally benefi­about "a culture within a cui-cial. "It seems to me that we ture." Although the percentage (Notre Dame) can learn as a of whites at Xavier is low, about university, from their sudcess," 10 percent, Lovett said the he said. school still needs to be sensitive He said he hopes it will be a to the~r position. Students relationship in which, attendmg Notre Dame for a "everyone benefits, but semester will hopefully, "learn everyone has to give." 
NO's 'new Gloria Estefan' strives for success 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Don't expect to hear strains of "Coming Out of the Dark" reverberating from Loretta Murray's room. Although Murray, a senior at Notre Dame may be compared with Gloria Estefan for writing English/Spanish songs and starting her career in Colombia, she is a performer who stands on her own with some help from her friends. 
"I like different kinds of mu­sic," Murray said, referring to her diverse collection of tapes. She credits The Supremes and Heart for being an inspiration to her but instead of having role models, Murray "like(s) to admire what they do" and not be a "crazed fan." -Although Murray has always wanted to sing, it wasn't until she was in a near-fatal accident that she decided to consider a serious career as a performer. "I feel that God gave me a sec­ond chance. I will live life to the fullest and take advantage of what God has given me," she said. 

Murray recorded her first song and video last summer on the campus. John Fletcher and Tamarin Hannon filmed and edited the video that was shot at LaFortune and Fieldhouse Mall. "I couldn't have done it without everyone from the dancers to the choreographers and costume makers," Murray said of the many friends who made the first video, "Que Mas?" 
When Murray took the video and two songs to Colombia, she didn't expect to be as successful as she was. On her fourth day there, "Que Mas?" was played on the radio and she was interviewed live as well. According to Murray, "All they listen to (in Colombia) is American pop. They don't know what they're saying"but they sing along anyway." 
Although Murray's goal was just to get her songs played on the radio, she has found that the farther she goes, the higher her aspirations follow. She de­scribed the feeling of being played on SuperVideos, Colombia's equivalent of MTV, as very exciting. "It was shown between Natalie Cole and Soul II Soul on the air," she re­membered. 


Murray's lyrics are half Spanish and half English, which she has . found particularly challenging. Not only do the words have to correlate, but rhyme in both languages. Even though Murray's mother is Colombian, she wasn't fluent in Spanish before she took classes at Notre Dame. 
Currently, Murray :is collabo­rating with some musicians in Miami and is "very happ:· with these guys." They record 1 her second song, "No Quiero Bailar Sin Ti," which is has a dance/salsa flavor. A record company wants to hear more from Murray and she plans to be prepared when she goes to Colombia in December. "I'm de­termined to get a contract," she smiled. 
The Miami Sound Machine was popular in South America before conquering the States, and Murray hopes to eventually do the same. "I don't know when I'll be satisfied. I want to be able to make a livin~ as a 
singer and wouldn't mind stay­ing in Colombia, but I'd like to come back to my home (the States)." 
Murray's manager has al­ready changed her name to Loretta De Los Rios, which has become familiar to Murray be­cause that is how she is known in Colombia. She is a self-de­scribed "walking cliche," and is full of positive thoughts. "Follow your bliss and you can't help but be successful. I'm just consumed with this!" 


Monday, March 25, 1991 
The Observer 
Bubka resets own pole vault record 
GRENOBLE, France (AP) ­There arc two levels of pole vault competition now-Sergei Bubka and the rest of the world. 
And the rest of the world is far, far behind. 
Bubka made his third trip above 20 feet another world record when he cleared 20 feet, 1 inch Saturday night at a spe­cial Masters event. 
It was the fourth time since 
Feb. 1 that the Soviet vaulter 
bettered his own world indoor 
record that started the year at 
19-10 1/4. 

He went 19-11 at the Soviet 
championships Feb. 9 at 
Volgograd. He followed with 
20-0 at San Sebastian March 
15, 20-0 1/2 March 19 at 
Donetsk and 20-1 Saturday. 
No other vaulter has come 
·,.


t' A 
' "l ' 

.. 
AP Photo

Two-time champ 
Austria's Petra Kronberger won her second straight World Cup overall title Sunday. 
close this season. The best is by Soviet Viktor Ryzhenkov, who did 19-4 3/4 in trailing Bubka at San Sebastian. 
In fact, the nearest vaulter 
behind Bubka on the all-time 
list is another Soviet, Rodion 
Gataullin, at 19-9. 
Bubka had a lot of space 
when he cleared his record 
height Saturday night, indicat­
ing there may be more to come 
when he starts his outdoor sea­
son. His world outdoor mark is 
19-10 3/4, set at Nice, France, 
three years ago. 
"I felt very strong," Bubka 
said in English over the sta­
dium loudspeaker. "I feel ca­
pable of going 6.20 meters (20­
4), but that is perhaps another 
time." 

Bubka has raised the world indoor mark 15 times and the outdoor record nine since 1984. 
After a poor showing at the 1990 European championships in Split, Yugoslavia, people were writing him off. He has proved them wrong. 
A two-time world outdoor champion and the 1988 Olympic gold medalist, Bubka, 27, finished only sixth at Split. That was his first loss at a major meet since winning the world title as a 19-year-old at Helsinki, Finland, at the first world outdoor championships in 1983. 
page 15 

Bonilla's agent wants Pirates to get serious about talks 
BRADENTON, Fla. (AP) ­
The agent for Pittsburgh 
Pirates outfielder Bobby 
Bonilla said the club is not 
serious about signing the 
National League's most 
valuable player. 
But the Pirates said they 
plan to discuss a possible 
long-term contract with the 
right fielder's representative, 
perhaps as early as today. 
"If he's got an offer to make, he has my home number, he has my office number," agent Dennis Gilbert said Sunday. "Let him call and make it me and I'll respond accordingly." 
Pirates president Carl Barger said Sunday the Pirates would soon contact Gilbert. 
"We're going to try to get the flavor of their current thinking," Barger said. 
Gilbert, in a telephone con­versation from Beverly Hills, Calif., said he is not encouraged by the move. 
"For the last six months, I've kept hearing that Carl Barger is going to call and of­fer this and offer that," he said. "As far as I'm concerned, I don't believe any of it. It's just grandstanding, a self-serving move to try and make it like he's serious about signing Bobby. They're not serious about signing Bobby. They showed that during the talks before arbitration." 
Bonilla, who has played for the National League in each of the past three All-Star games, is eligible to become a free agent at the end of the season. 
The Pirates attempted to sign Bonilla to a four-year deal for $16 million last month but were turned down as Gilbert countered by asking for $17.9 million over four years with a no-trade clause. 
Gilbert also turned down a one-year offer of $3.1 million prior to Bonilla's salary arbi­tration case with Pittsburgh, countering at $3.2 million. Bonilla went on to lose In arbitration for the second straight year, and is making $2.4 million this season. 
Barger said if Gilbert Is still sticking to the request of $17.9 million with a no-trade clause "then that's a problem." However, he did say the Pirates would consider agreeing to a limited no-trade provision. 
The Observer accepts cfassHieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame cXfice, 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day cfassHieds Ia 3p.m All cfassHieds must be prepaid. The charge Ia 2 cents per character per day. Including all
Classifieds 
spaces. 

I need ride to Iowa City or nearby  IS IT TRUE...JEEPS FOR $44  91 GRADS: MOVING TO DC?  HOP HOP HOP  To the loyal subjects of P.W.,  
for Easter-call Jen 2170  THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T?  Need roommate? Call David  To the Bunny Shop  Help a worthy soul regain the  
Notices  CALL FOR FACTSI  (NO '90) 217-753-1641.  We have Easter Baskets and  noble status she so rightfully  
PC-compatible laptop  504·649-5745 EXT. S-6840  lotsa candy just for you I  deserves. Hail, Hail Queen  
TYPING AVAILABLE  288·585g  Karaffallllll  
287·4082  TWO round trip tickets to  SUPER SLIDE SHOWIII  The Country Harvester  
NEED RIDE TO DAYTON FOR  London. Good through Dec.  LaFonune Lower Level  
RESUMES .. PROFESSIONAL  EASTER. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME  1gg1. $350 each or best offer.  Right belore AnTostal's  Going to Pins. for Easter? I need a  
QUALITY. CALL 272-5667.  DEBBIE x2982.  239-7962 days.  Midnight Movie (Rocky Horror  M-F 12-5 SPRING OPEN HOUSE  ride. Liz x 4416.  
Picture Show) there will  
''''ATTENTION SMC'""  sofa, luv seat, carpet  be a slide show I If you want  
II anyone would like to purchase a  For Rent  window seats (Fl. & Gr.)  to see yourself and your  SPRING OPEN HOUSE  
St. Mary's class ring, I transferred  X1583  friends on the BIG SCREEN  1991  
aller purchasing mine and would  GRAD. WEEKEND  on the quad please submit  M-F 12-5  REGATTA  
like to sell itI It's like brand  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Bar, Five Stools, Misc. glasses.  photos of the wild and zany  At THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  T-SHIRTS  
new-and cheaper than the regular  21g·291-7153.  28g·5345.  times you've had at NO/SMC  $8.00  
selling priceI Give me a call, I  to the Information Desk in  WE HAVE CUDDLY BUNNIES,  
graduate soon I Thanksl Julie  3 Bedroom House  LaFonune BEFORE MARCH 28  BOUNTIFUL BASKETS, HOME­ On sale Mon., Tues., & Wed.@  
273·g442  Close to Campus  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  (Easter Break). Put photos in  MADE CHOCOLATES AND LOTSA  NOH & SOH @ dinner or x3928.  
$555 Month + Deposit  Buying a car? Good rates. Call me  THE BOX at the desk. Photos  TOYSII  On 4/20-VA GOTTA REGATTA II  
What would you sacrifice lor a  Ten Month Lease  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 28g·1993.  of past AnTostals (mudpits,  SEE YOU THERE I  
career? See ·My Brillant Career"  232-3616  Office near campus.  jello wrestling ...) are  
tonight In Eng. Aud. at7:30.  encouraged. No alcohol in  
TIME IS RUNNING OUT ­ IS IT TRUE..... JEEPS FOR $44  photos. All pictures with  IT'S NOT TRUE THAT CHEAP  Brian-hope Cali was fun and the  
Call belore the BEST houses are  THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T?  name, address, and phone#  PEOPLE SEND CHEAP CARDS.  surfing was great-bet you missed  
gone 233-9947.  CALL FOR FACTS I  on back will be returned.  SMART PEOPLE SEND CHEAP  South Bend, right? J.C.  
Lost and Found  504-649·5745 EXT. S-6840  Questions call Rob (x4478) or  CARDS. CHEAP PEOPLE DON'T  
EASY LIVING 'g1.'92 yr.  stop by SUB office.  SENDCARDSI  
llost my ID. II you have found it,  3 great student houses.  WE CARRY 48 DESIGNS PRICED  Pat Egan-don't worry, we won't tell  
please return it to me. I am very lost  234-3831 or 288·5653  nckets  SUPER SLIDE SHOW­ SO CHEAP YOU'LL LOVE 'EM I  anyone that you fell in the mud In  
without it. I had all ol my ID in a  BE A PART OF IT Ill  the parking lot of Club 23.­ 
blue NO holder. My name is  Availabfe. 2 Student Rental Homes  GUNS N' ROSES TIX  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  
Comalita Haysbert. You can reach  for 1g91-1992 school year. Call  Two tickets for the May 24th Alpine  M-F 12-5  
me at the # 3270.  232-5411 (g A.M to 12 and 2 P.M. to  Valley show lor sale at face value.  NEEDED: Ride from St.Louis on  Join our Farside Card Club  Ill PROFESSORS ... Ill  
5 P.M. Monday thru Friday).  Call DAN at X2187.  April 1.Call Theresa at x3425.  and get a great deal I  
HELP MEl LOst 10. Please call  ARE YOU TOURING THE WORLD  
3270 if you have lound lt. All of my  Share house lor summer  CH-SUFR: Carroll Hall  ON A FULBRIGHT? ARE YOU  
10 was In Blue NO plastic case. I'm  Nice, furnished, wash & dryer  Two more days until...  Students United For  GOING TO BERMUDA? ARE YOU  
lost without it. Comalita M. Haysbert  $130/mnth, all util. incl.  Personal  Engineering Sweatshirt Day I  Respect.  JUST GOING AWAY THIS  
288·585g  1-SUFR: Italian Students  SUMMER? WORRIED ABOUT  
'"GRADUATE STUDENTS"'  United For Respect.  THE HOUSE?  
TWO NICE FURNISHED HOMES  ADOPTION: Loving, professional  YOU-SUFR: Young Orie:1tal  RESPONSIBLE UNDERGRAD IS  
Wanted  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ONE  couple will give your newborn the  THE ROLE AND STATUS OF  Urbanite Students United  lOoKING TO TAKE CARE OF  
IDEAL FOR 5-7 PEOPLE OTHER  best things in life. Let us help you  GRADUATE STUDENT  For Respect.  YOUR HOUSE WHILE FLUNKING  
SUMMER JOBS  3-4 PEOPLE GREAT AREA 1 MILE  through this difficult time. Medical  TEACHING & RESEARCH  WE-SUFR: Women Engineering  ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IN THE  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  NORTH OF NO 2n3097  expenses paid. Legal/confidential.  AT NOTRE DAME  Students United For Respect.  SUMMER SESSION. NO NEED  
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  Apts. for rent-2 bedrm, kitchen,  Call Barbara and Joe anytime. (800) 253-8086.  REV. EDWARD MALLOY, CSC  We all suffer if we  TO WORRY THIS SUMMERI CALL ANYTIME ...283·  - 
LAKE PLACID. CALL  dining, living. $380 includes  UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT  perpetuate segregation I  3470... PLEASE LEAVE A  
1·800-343·8373.  utilities. Call219-232-5563.  Resumes....Professional quality  MESSAGE IF GONE I  
272-5667. (Tom Williams)  DR. NATHAN HATCH  SUFR perpetuates segregation.  CAN FURNISH "CHARACTER"  
NEEDED: ride to IU for Easter  VICE-PRES. FOR ADV. STUDIES  REFERENCES UPON REQUEST.  
Break Missy 2577 $$  Senior girls leaving May •g1 -4  SENIORS Ill  
Bedroom east side home near  SENIORS Ill  DR. TIMOTHY O'MEARA  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  
Notre Dame for lease, all  SENIORS Ill  PROVOST  Five Guys Who Aren't Afraid to  CALLING VANESSA 272-9305.  
' RIDE NEEDED '  appliances incl. wahr/dryer, central  Last Chance to buy  Wear Tutus While Playing  ------···--·  
To Indianapolis lor  air, finished basement, lrplc., super  SENIOR FORMAL  MON., MARCH 25, 7-9 PM  Basketball: we·re in it for the  
Easter Breaklll  4 to 5 person student rental. Call  bids on  CCE AUDITORIUM  chicks.  
Will pay gaslll  219-232-5563.  March 25 · LeMans Lobby  We didn't sell Peanut Buner  
Call Tricia@ 284·4314.  March 26-Theodore's  " RECEPTION TO FOLLOW "  Eggs at Christmas nor did'~'e  Watcil for lhe Myslery Mac lila!  
from6-g.  sell Marshmallow Bunniesll;r  will appear today from 3:30 to  
SEEKING SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENT FOR BABYSITTING· 15 HOURS PER WEEK· 5 MIN. FROM  For Sale  SENIORS Ill SENIORS Ill SENIORSIII  ADOPTION: Happily married loving couple wish to adopt. We promise  Halloween, but we will sell them nowllll EASTER STUFF IS US1  5:30 at one of theso stghts: a) La Fortune b) Soulh Dinmg Hall c) Hayes-Healy lobby d) Fieldhouse Mall. Remember  
N.D. 234-7407.  IN THE SHADOW OF THE DOME I  a fine education, financial security,  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  where you saw it. Enter to win  
3 BDRM HOME FOR SALE BY  noble.  and the best of all our hearts.  LOWER LEVEL LAFORTUNE  your own Mac SE in  
OWNER. FIREPLACE, CIA, FMRM  Expenses paid. Legal/confidential.  M-F 12-5  Hayes-Healy the 26th-28th  
EARN $300/$500 PER WEEK  WIBAR. MOVE-IN COND. 15 MIN  outrageous.  Call Tom and Debbie collect 212·  Stop in and say 'HI' to PAULA  
READING BOOKS AT HOME.  WALK FROM NO. APPT ONLY.  866-8315.  AMY, MAURA AND KEN IIIII  
1-615-473-7440 EXT. B  234-8116, EVE.  WATERFRONT PROPERTY!  



page 16 Monday, March 25, 1991
SCOREBOARD 

NHL STANDINGS INDIANA BASKETBALL NBA STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE STATE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME EASTERN CONFERENCE Patrick Division Atlantic Division w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Dlv PANTHERS 51, BRAVES 32 w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni 
x-Pinsburgh 39 32 5 83 325 290 25-12-2 14-20-3 18-13-1 x-Boston 50 19 .725 7-3 Lost I 30-5 20-14 29-13 x-NY Rangers 35 30 12 82 283 253 21-11-6 14-19-6 14-14-5 Gary Roosevelt 51 Philadelphia 38 30 ·.559 11 112 6-4 Lost 1 25-9 13-21 26-15 Washington 35 34 7 77 247 249 20-13-5 15-21-2 Harding 2-9 4-4 8, Floyd 6-13 0-1 12, Robinson New York 34 35 .493 16 7-3 Lost 2 17-18 17-17 23-20
18-12-3 

New Jersey 31 31 14 263 22-9-7 7-16 8-10 22, Graham 1-8 0-0 2, Woods 0-1 1-2 I, Washington 25 42 .373 24 3-7 Won 17-15 8-27 17-25
76 251 9-22-7 13-14-5 2 
Philadelphia 33 35 9 75 247 257 18-14-6 15-21-3 12-14-6 Hudson 0-0 0-0 0, Lee 3-4 0-0 6, Wed/ow 0-1 0-0 New Jersey 22 46 .324 27 112 3-7 Lost 2 17-17 5-29 14-28 NY islanders 23 44 10 56 215 282 14-19-6 9-25-4 11-19-4 0, Harris 0-0 0-0 0, Berry 0-0 0-0 0, Hunter 0-2 0-0 Miami 20 49 .290 30 1-9 Lost 8 14-21 6-28 11-34 
0, Murray 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 19-54 13-17 51. Adame Division Indianapolis Brebeul 32 Central Division y-Boston 42 23 12 96 282 252 25-9-5 17-14-7 17-8-5 Roberts 1-3 0-0 2, Winters 3-4 1-2 7, Henderson x-Chicago 51 16 .761 9-1 Won I 31-3 20-13 33-9 x-Montrea/ 37 29 11 85 265 240 21-12-5 16-17-6 13-12-4 7-15 0-3 14, Hostener 1-3 1-2 3, Barber 1-3 0-0 2, x-Detroit 42 27 .609 10 5-5 Lost I 27-8 15-19 28-16 x-Buffalo 29 30 17 75 274 265 14-13-11 15-17-6 11-12-7 Miller 0-1 0-0 0, McCray 0-0 0-0 o. Walker 0-0 0-0 x-Milwaukee 42 27 .609 10 6-4 Won 4 28-7 14-20 27-18 x-Hartford 31 35 10 72 225 257 18-16-5 13-19-5 9-14-6 0, Anderson 0-1 0-0 0, Courtney 1-3 2-2 4, Gordon Atlanta 38 31 .551 14 4-6 Won 1 26-9 12-22 21-23 Quebec 15 48 13 43 221 338 8-22-8 7-26-5 8-12-8 0-0 0-0 0, Moss 0-0 0-1 0. Totals 14-33 4-10 32. Indiana 34 35 .493 18 6-4 Lost 1 24-10 10-25 21-21 
Cleveland 24 43 .358 27 4-6 Won I 16-17 8-26 15-25 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Gary Roosevelt 6 9 16 20 51 Char/one 19 49 .279 32 112 2-8 Lost 4 12-20 7-29 12-30 Norrie Division lndpls Brebeul 9 1 10 t2 32 w L T Pta GF GA Home Away Div 3-Point goals-Roosevelt 0-3 (Harding 0-1, WESTERN CONFERENCE x-Chlcago 47 22 7 101 271 203 26-8-4 21-14-3 Robmson 0-1, Hunter 0-1 ). Brebeuf 0-5 (Roberts 0-Midwest Division
18-7-3 x-St. Louis 43 22 11 97 295 243 21-9-7 22-13-4 15-11-3 1, Henderson 0-1, Hostetter 0-1, Miller 0-1, w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Coni 
x-Detro~ 33 36 8 74 262 281 25-13-0 Anderson 0-1). Rebounds-Roosevelt 27 x-Utah 45 22 .672 6-4 Won 4 28-5 17-17 30-12
8-23-8 13-15-3

x-Minnesota 26 36 14 66 244 252 18-14-6 8-22-8 9-15-5 (Robinson 10), Brebeuf 25 (Henderson 10). x-San Antonio 44 23 .657 I 6-4 Won 2 27-6 17-17 28-16 Toronto 23 44 10 56 234 306 15-21-3 8-23-7 Assists-Roosevelt 9 (Graham 3), Brebeuf 7 x-Houston 43 24 .642 2 10-0 Wont! 28-8 15-16 27-17
10-17-2 

(Hostetter, Courtney 2). Total fouls-Roosevelt 11, Dallas 25 42 .373 20 3-7 Lost I 17-18 8-24 14-27 Smythe Dlvlllion Brebeuf 12. Fouled out-None. A-30,345. Orlando 23 43 .348 211/2 4-6 Won 2 18-16 5-27 19-27 x-Los Angeles 43 23 10 96 325 241 24-9-5 19-14-5 17-8-4 Minnesota 22 45 .328 23 3-7 Lost 1 16-18 6-27 15-33 x-Calgary 44 25 7 95 323 248 27-8-2 17-17-5 16-9-3 Denver 18 50 .265 27 1/2 2-8 Lost 6 15-20 3-30 10-34 
x-Edmonton 35 35 5 75 253 These teams have won more than
254 20-14-3 15-21-2 11-14-2 one Vancouver 27 42 9 63 306 17-17-5 10-25-4 Indiana high school boys' basketball tourney Pacific Division
238 10-19-1 Winnipeg 26 41 11 63 255 279 17-18-5 9-23-6 10-14-6 championship (23 others have won one title x-Portland 49 18 .731 5-5 Won 2 30-5 19-13 29-13 x-cllnched playoff berth apiece): x-LA Lakers 49 20 .710 1 7-3 Woo 1 27-7 22-13 32-12 y-clinched division title 8-Muncie Central (1928-31-51-52-63-78-79-88) x-Phoenlx 47 21 .691 2112 8-2 Won 1 25-7 22-14 28-15 6-Marion (1926-75-76-85-86-87) Golden State 36 31 .537 13 6-4 Lost 1 24-11 12-20 22-24 4-Frankfort (1925-29-36-39) Seanle 32 35 .478 17 3-7 Lost 1 20-11 12-24 18-23
Saturday's Games Monday's Games 3-Lebanon (1912-17-18) LA Clippers 25 44 .362 25 5-5 Won 2 17-16 8-28 20-23Philadelphia 7, N.Y. Rangers 4 Hartford at Montreal, 7:35 p.m. 3-Lafayene Jeff (1916-48-64) Sacramento 18 48 .273 30 112 3-7 Lost 4 17-15 1-33 12-28Boston 6, Buffalo 3 St. Louis at Minnesota, 8:35p.m. 3-Franklin (1920-21-22) x-clinched playoff berth Chicago 7. Pittsburgh 5 Tuesday's Games 3-Martinsville (1924-27-33)Los Angeles 8, Calgary 4 New Jersey at N.Y. Rangers, 7:35p.m. 3-Washington ( 1930-41-42) St. Louis 3, N.Y. Islanders 2 Pittsburgh at Philadelphia. 7:35 p.m 3-Anderson (1935-37-46)

Quebec 7, Hartford 3 Sunday's Games Monday's Games
Booton at Quebec, 7:35p.m. 3 -Evansville Bosse (1944-45-62)
Winnipeg 3, Edmonton 0 San Antonio 85, Detroit 78 Golden State at Orlando, 7:30p.m. 
Chicago at Toronto, 7:35p.m 3-lndpls Attucks (1955-56-59) 
New Jersey 3, Montreal 3, tie Portland 117, Char/one 102 New Jersey at Washington, 7:30 p.m. 
Buffalo at Washington, 7:35p.m. 2-Wingate (1913-14) 
Toronto 4, Detroit 1 LA Lakers 113, Seanle 96 Houston at Chicago, 8:30p.m. 
Vancouver at Calgary, 9:35p.m. 2-Ft.Wayne South (1938-58) Detroit at Denver, 9:30p.m
Edrronton at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 2-S.Bend Central (1953-57)
Sunday's Games Milwaukee at Utah, 9:30p.m. 
2-E.Chlcago Washington (1960-71) 

Late Game Not Included Phoenix at LA Clippers, I 0:30 p.m. 
2-indpis Washington (1965-69) 

Boston 3, Washington 3, tie LA Lakers at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
2-Vincennes (1923-81)Buffalo 6, Philadelphia 2 2-Connersville (1972-83)Chicago 5, Minnesota 4 2 -Gary Roosevelt (1968-91) N.Y. Rangers 3, N.Y. Islanders 1 
NCAA BASKETBALL BOXES
Los Angeles at Edmonton, (n) 

TRANSACTIONS NCAA FENCING RESULTS TAR HEELS 75, OWLS 72 REBELS 77, PIRATES 65 
Temple 72 Seton Hall 65liASEBALL FINAL TEAM SCORES Kilgore 7-15 1-5 18, Strickland 3-7 2-2 8, Hodge Winchester 3-6 2-3 8, Karnishovas 2-6 2-2 8,American League 3-7 1-2 7, Carstarphen 3-11 0-0 8, Macon 12-23 3-Avent 5-10 3-4 13, Taylor 3-11 2-2 9, Dehere 5-15CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Agreed to terms with WFoil MFoil Sabre Epee Total 3 31, Hardin 0-0 0-0 0, Spears 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 28-3-3 15, Walker 3-4 1-2 7, Crist 1-1 0-0 2, Caver t-5Donn Pall, pitcher, on a multiyear contract. Place Pta. Place Pta. Place Pta. Place Pta. 
65 7-12 72. 0-0 2, Davis 0-0 0-0 0, Barnea 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 23­Optioned Grady Hall, Rich Scheid and Jerry 1. Penn State I 1750 4 750 1 1200 2 1000 4700 North Carolina 75 58 13-16 65. 
Kutzler, phchers; Cesar Bernhardt, infielder; Man 2. Coiurrbla 4 1250 I 1200 5 550 I 1200 4200 Lynch 5-9 0-0 10, Fox 8-16 1-1 19, Chllcun 3-10 UNLV 77Stark, catcher; and Derek Lee, outfielder, to 3. Notre Dame 2 1550 2 1000 2 1000 7 350 3900 1-2 7, Rice 2-4 6-6 12, Davis 7-13 3-3 19, Montross Johnson 13-19 2-4 30, Augmon 6-10 0-1 13,Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League. Sent Greg 4. Yale 7 925 3 875 3 875 3 875 3550 0-3 1-2 1, Sullivan 0-0 0-0 0, Rod/ 2-3 0-0 5, Ackles 3-6 0-0 6, Hunt 5-16 0-1 13, Anthony 3-8 0­Perschke, pncher; Clemente Alvarez and Kurt 5. Pennsylvania 6 675 5 550 4 750 15 1990 Phelps 0-1 0-0 0, Reese 1-1 0-0 2. Rozier 0-1 0-0 0 6, Gray 1-2 2-2 4, Spencer 0-1 3-4 3, Bice 0-1 0­Brown, catchers; Bobby Meacham and Ron 6. Temple 3 1400 1400 0. Totals 28-61 12-14 75. 0 0, Waldman 0-0 2-2 2. Rice 0-0 0-0 0, Love 0-0 0­Nelson, infielders; and Orsino Hall. outfielder, to 7. FDU 5 1050 1050 Halhim&--North Carolina 35, Temple 30. 3-polnt 0 0. Totals 31-63 9-14 77. 
their minor league ca"l> for reassignment. Offered 8. North Carolina 9 525 6 350 9 52 927 goals-Temple 9-24 (Macon 4-9, Kilgore 3-6, Hailtime-UNLV 39, Seton Hall 36. 3-pointBrian Harrison, pkcher, back to the Montreal Expos 9. Wayne State 7 800 9 40 840 Carstarphen 2-9), North Carolina 7-17 (Rice 2-2, goals-Seton Hall 6-14 (Karnishovas 2-3, Dehereafter having claimed him from the Expos in the 10. Wisconsin 10 325 14 7 6 450 20 802 Davis 2-6, Fox 2-7, Rod/1-1, Chilcun 0-1). Fouled 2-5, Crist 1-1, Taylor 1-4, Caver 0-1), UNLV 6-16Rule 5 drah In December. 
out-Carstarphen. Rebounds-Temple 35 (Macon (Hunt 3-11, Johnson 2-3, Augmon 1-1, Anthony 0­NEW YORK YANKEES-Optioned Jeff Johnson, INDIVIDUAL MEN'S FotL INDIVIDUAL MEN'S EPEE 9), North Carolina 40 (Chilcutt 9). Assists-Temple 1). l=ouled out-None. Rebounds-Seton Hall 36pitcher, to Colurrbus of the international League. FINAL RESULTS FINAL RESULTS 12 (Carstarphen 5), North Carolina 12 (Rice 7). (Avent, Winchester 8), UNLV 31 (Johnson 6).
National League Total fouls-Temple 16, North Carolina 12. A-Assists-Seton Hall 10 (Winchester. Avent, TaylorCINCINNATI REDS-Sent Rodney imes and 1. Ben Atkins, Colurrbia (14-4) 1. Marc Cshima, Columbia 19,601. 2). UNLV 17 (Hunt II). Total louis-Seton Hall 18,Luis Vasquez, pitchers; Freddy Benavides, 2. Noel Young, Notre Dame (13·4) 2. Jubba Beahin, Notre Dame UNLV 15. A-23.666.

inlielder. and Reggie Sanders, outfielder, to their 3. James Borin, Yale (9-9) 3. David Calderhead, Notre Dame minor league ca"l> for reassignment. 4. Lorin Thompson, North Carolina (11-8) 13. Greg Wozniak, Notre Dame 
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Waived Mickey 5. Stephen Schroeder, Wayne State (14-2) JAYHAWKS 93, RAZORBACKS 81 BLUE DEVILS 78, REDMEN 61 Hatcher, Infielder, for the purpose of giving him his 6. Chris Maggos, Yale (14-3) unconditional release. Optioned Dave Hansen, 7. Frank Osborn, Yale (9-7) Kansas 93 St. John's 61 Eric Karras, Greg Smith, Infielders; Carlos 8. Mark Pavese, Coiurrbla (1 0-8) Jamison 11-14 3-5 26, Maddox 3-4 2-2 8, Sealy 8-19 2-4 19, Singleton 4-6 0-0 8, Werdann Hernandez, catcher; John Weneiand, pitcher; and 9. Ed Mule/, Penn State (13-2) Randall 4-5 2-4 10, Brown 5-12 0-0 11, Jordan 3-9 2-2 0-0 4, Buchanan 6-11 0-0 15, Sproling 2-9 0-0 Henry Rodriquez, outfielder, to Abuquerque of the 10. Alan Weber, Penn (11-5) 8-10 14, Richey 0-1 0-0 0, Woodberry 1-4 4-4 6, 6, Scott 0-1 0-0 0, Cain 1-3 0-0 2, Mute 0-2 2-2 2. Pacific Coast League. 13. Phil Leary, Notre Dame (7-6) Tunstal/3-7 4-4 11. Wagner 1-1 2-2 4, Seen 1-5 1-Mullin 0-0 0-0 0, Becken 1-2 0-0 3, Luyk 1-2 0-0 2. 
MONTREAL EXPOS-Sent Brian Harrison, 16. Jeff Piper, Notre Dame (8-8) 2 3, Johanning 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 32-62 26-33 93. Totals 25-57 4-6 61. pitcher, outright to Indianapolis of the American Arkansas 81 Duke 78 Association. INDIVIDUAL MEN'S SABRE INDIVIDUAL WOMEN'S FOIL Day8-196-726, Morris5-61-111, Miller7-112-Koubek 3-6 0-0 7, G.Hill 3-6 6-8 12, Laettner 5-6 
FINAL RESULTS FINAL RESULTS 3 16, Mayberry 3-9 1-2 7, Bowers 1-4 0-0 3, Munry 9-9 19, Hurley 6-10 4-6 20, T.Hill 1-4 2-2 4, Davis HOCKEY 6-13 0-2 14, Huery 1-7 0·0 2, Fletcher 0-1 0-0 0, 1-4 2-3 4, McCaltrey 3-9 0-0 6, Palmer 2-2 0-0 4, National Hockey League 1. Vkaly Nazllmov, Penn State 1. Heidi Piper, Notre Dame (17-1) Wallace 1-3 0-0 2. Totals 32-7310-15 81. Lang 0-0 0-0 0, Clark 1-1 0-0 2, Buckley 0-0 0-0 0, 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Recalled Mark 2. Leazek Nowoalelakl, Notre Dame 2. Ute Schaeper, Fairleigh Dickinson (14-4) Halftime-Arkansas 47, Kansas 35. 3-polnt Ast 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 25-48 23-28 78. Fitzpatrick, goalie, from Capital District ol the 3. David Cox, Penn State 3. Ann Marsh, Coiurrbla (16-2) goals-Kansas 3-12 (Jamison 1-1. Tunstall 1-3, Halftime-Duke 40, St. John's 26. 3-point American Hockey League. 4. Shimon Sarra!. North Carolina 4. Olga Chernyak, enn State (16-2) Brown 1-5, Jordan 0-3), Arknasas 7-19 (Day 4-8, goals-St. John's 7-10 (Buchanan 3-3, Sproling 2­
NEW YORK RANGERS-Recalled Corey Millen, 5. Leonard D'Amico, Stanford 5. Larissa Lehmkuhl, Wayne Sta!e ( 10-7) Murry 2-5, Bowers 1-1, Wallace 0-1, Mayberry 0-4). 3, Becken 1-1, Sealy 1-2. Singleton 0-1 ). Duke 5­center, and Jell Bloemberg, defenseman, lrom 6. Thomas Strzakowski, Penn State 6. Barbara Mehiiss, Wayne State (11-7) Fouled out-Murry. Rebounds-Kansas 41 13 (Hurley 4-7. Koubek 1-3, Laenner 0-1. T.Hill 0­Bingharmon of the American Hockey League. 7. Stephen Kovacs, Colurrbia 7. Krisztina Hovanyi, Ohio State (8-8) (Jamison 9), Arkansas 38 (Miller 9). Assists­2). Fouled out-Buchanan. Rebounds-St. John's 
8. Allie Dvorin, New York 8. Muna Bitar, Te"l>le (9-7) Kansas 12 (Randall, Jordan 3), Arkansas 16 31 (Werdann 7), Duke 26 (Hurley 7). Assists-St. COLLEGE 9. Seung Jean Chai, Yale 9. Melanie Jones, Fairleigh Dickinson (9-6) (Mayberry, Huery 4). Total louis-Kansas 18, John's 15 (Buchanan 7), Duke 15 (Hurley 4). Total 
SMC 

A 1 umnae/Student 
Conference 
REGIS-Named Larry Hopkins men's assistant 10. Peter Clement, Colurrbia 10. Kris Carfl)beii, Yale (8-8) Arkansas 25. A-22,717. 
soccer coach. 14. Chris Baguer, Notre Dame 20. Rachel Haugh, Notre Dame (2-11) 
21. Ed Baguer, Notre Dame 22. Anne Barreda, Notre Dame (4-4) 
IRISH HEARTLIGHTS 
3 & 6 MILE FUN RUNS 
THURSDAY, APRIL 11 5:30PM 
ENTRY FORMS AVAILABLE AT NVA, LAFORTUNE AND DINING HALLS 
-
STUDENTS & STAFF TROPHIES AND PRIZES FOOD & REFRESHMENTS 
SPONSORED BY 
NON-VARSITY AND FOOD SERVICES 
fouls-St. John's 22, Duke 10. A-25,634. 

Maple e BarberShop 2112 S. Bend Ave. One mile from campus next to Coach's 
********* 

April 5-7
MARCIA GILLESPIE 
Applications available in leMans 64 
Former editor of Ms. Maguzi ne 
They are due MlJrch 26 •• "Women and Minorities in the Corporate World .. Come Experience the life of the Mind • March 26
•
• 
7p.m_ • o·Luughlin Auditorium
•
•
•
• 
-
Monday, March 25, 1991 The Observer page 17 
WLAF receives wet greeting in Barcelona 
BAHCELONA, Spain (AP) -Pro football's first trans­Atlantic game turned into a water torture Sunday as Barcelona ignored torrential rain to defeat New York-New Jersey 19-7 in the World League of American Football. 
The Dragons scored their points in the second quarter despite a downpour and a strong, cold wind. Scott Erney passed 43 yards for one touchdown and ran six yards for another. 
The 19,223 fans huddled under umbrellas and clustered in seal<; covered by the second deck of the Olympic Stadium, whore track events will be held at the 1992 Summer Games. 
The Intense rain forced or­ganizers to move the press box at the last minute and led team officials to offer free tickets to an April 14 game against Orlando to all fans who braved the elements .. 
The level of play was significantly higher than that of a night earlier in Germany, where the London Monarchs defeated the Frankfurt Galaxy in the WLAF's inaugural game. 
Erney, who played at Rutgers, beat out Notre Dame's Tony Rice for the starting job with Barcelona and solidified his place on Sunday. 
After Lydell Carr had given the Dragons a 6-0 lead early in the second quarter on a 1­yard run, Erney connected on a 43-yard touchdown pass to Gene Taylor after a Barcelona interception. 
Another interception led to the third touchdown, a 6­yard run by Erney, who completed nine of his 18 passes for 122 yards. 
Litigation • Real Estate Corporations • General Practice Estates, Trusts & Wills Employee Benefits Plan
"Roosevelt's 
• Largest A.B.A.-approved program in Illinois
paralegal 
• Effective employment assistance
program 
• Four-month day and eight-month 
evening classes

was my 
• Loop, Arlington Heights, Oak Brook and 
Olympia Fields locations 
stepping­
• 
Student loans for qualified applicants 

• 
Spring and Summer terms begin in February and June 


stone 
A rrprrsrntatlvr will be on thr St. Mary's Collegr campus April 4,1991 and thr Unlvrrslty of Notrr 
to a 
Damr campus on April 5, 1991. PIrase contact your placement office to schedule an appointment. • 
rewarding 
career." 
For additional information, please call collect: 
Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant
Anne Hillard ProgramLegal Assistant 430 S. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, IL 60605 
(312) 341-3882 

Expansion committee goes to Washington 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The National League expansion committee. visits Buffalo, N.Y., Washington and Denver this week, the last step before it be­gins its final stage of delibera­tions. 
The committee already has visited the three Florida final­ists -Miami, Orlando and St. Petersburg, and after this week's visits it will attempt to rank the cities. 
"The way see it, Washington is one of the sites, and the other five cities are scrambling for the other one," said Washington developer John Akridge, who heads the capital's group. "Give me a fact you want to compare, and I can't find one where Washington doesn't come out on top." 
The four-mao expansion committee visits Washington on Monday morning and Buffalo on Monday afternoon before looking at Denver's facilities on Tuesday. 
Washington believes it has an edge because its population 

is currently looking for Sports Writers. If you want to deliver sports news to the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community each day, then you should attend a meeting on Tuesday, March 26 outside The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune at 7:30 p.m. If you are unable to attend, Notre Dame students please call Dave Dieteman at 283-1407; Saint Mary's students call Christine Penote at 284-5088. 
Professional Ethics Lecture Series 
l
1 rofessor Jean Porter 
"New Challenges for Morality Medical Ethics in the 90's" Monday, March 25, 1991 Lecture to be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:OOpm 
Sponsored by: The Provost Office University Academic Code of Honor Co~ittee and Student Academic Council Committee ' 


of 3.7 million is much larger than the other finalists, and its television market is the sev­enth-largest in the nation. The Washington area's average household income of $48,038 is the highest in the nation. 
"The support has been just overwhelming," said Akridge, who hopes to have season ticket deposits from 30,000 fans by May 1. "We're running a good race, and things just seem to be picking up." 
But Washington is close to Baltimore and its previous his­tory works against it. The original Senators -whose typ­ically dismal performances sparked the phrase "First in War, First in Peace, and Last in the American League" -left Washington in 1961 and be­came the Minnesota Twins. The expansion Senators left in 1971 and became the Texas Rangers. If Washington gets an NL team, don't expect it to be called the Senators. 
"The Senators have their place in baseball history, but we would prefer to leave it un­muddied by any new associa­tions," Akridge said. "It's a new beginning, a new league, and a new team." 
The leaders of Buffalo's bid say they plan to ask the com­mittee about how the league's plan to cope with baseball's soaring salaries. 
"We're not necessarily going to tell them what we think they should do," said Mindy Rich, executive vice president of the minor-league Buffalo Bisons. 
Loyola 
continued from page 24 
ing into delay offenses that eventually began to wear down the Irish defense. At the same time, a stifling Loyola defense halted any Irish offensive at­tacks. 
"We were getting the ground balls, but their pressure de­fense hurt us," said Sennet. "We had the same four guys handling the ball all game, and they were getting pretty worn down by the end of the game." 
Loyola's passing and offensive execution verified that they are one of the top teams in the nations. With the scholarships they have to offer, there was little doubt that Notre Dame would have a tough test against the Greyhounds. But it seems as though the program is heading in the right direction. 
"Kevin's doing a great job with what he's got," said ninth­year Loyola coach Dave Cottle. "I was in the same position nine years ago that he's in now. If he can get a little help with some more scholarships, I don't see why their program can't be a national power in a few years." 
FINANCE CLUB MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 26 AT 6:30P.M. 222 HAYES-HEALy 
*Any Questions-Contact Marina x1291 
SOPHOMORE BUSINESS MAJORS 
ARE YOU LOOKING TO GET INVOLVED? 
The Student Business Board is looking for motivated sophomore business majors. Gain valuable experience in accounting, finance, and marketing projects. A great way to differentiate yourself from the rest of the crowd. 
The Student Business Board accounts for the three student run businesses on campus: ND Video. Ad works, and Irish Gardens. 
Applications are available at the Student Government office, second floor LaFonune, and are due April 3rd. 

page 18 The Observer Monday, March 25, 1991 
Spurs beat Detroit at own game; Blazers rout Hornets 
SAN ANTONIO (AP) -David Robinson scored 25 points and the San Antonio Spurs held Detroit without a field goal for more than seven minutes in the fourth quarter in beating the Pistons 85-78 Sunday. 
Terry Cummings and Rod Strickland had 16 points apiece for the Spurs, who won for the seventh consecutive time at home. Detroit was led by Joe Dumars with 22 points and James Edwards with 19. 
With the Spurs leading 68­66 with 9:39 to play, Robinson 
Trip 
continued from page 24 
But why should they care? The tournament had the feel of something put together at the last minute, lacking even a modicum of professionalism. 
The refereeing suggested that the NWIT committee simply called around the night before and found whoever was home for the weekend. Notre Dame's interhall officials probably could have done a better job. 
The public address announc­ers, for all their attempts to pump up the meager crowds, ended up sounding pathetic, yelling about "Twilight Zones" after three-pointers and "scenes of the crimes" follow­ing steals. 
The tournament director, when announcing the awards, could not even remember who won the consolation champi­onship. 
You know it's bad when two members of the All-Tour­nament team didn't even bother to show up for the cer­emonies. 
It all added up to a feeling of embarrassment, not for the tournament itself, but for the eight teams who participated. All of them had fine seasons, and as a reward for their ef­forts, all they got was to come to northern Texas to play in a Mickey Mouse tournament. 
The whole situation begs the question of why any school, especially one with the reputa­tion of Notre Dame, come to Amarillo in the first place. 
"The underclassmen got some experience playing in the postseason, and the freshmen got more playing time at the Division I level," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "The se­niors also got three more games. For little things like that, it was worth coming down. 
"But after losing the first game, we all just wanted to go home." 
Work up to 6 monlhs 1n Bnta1n. Ireland, France. Germany, Jama1ca. Neloll Zealand, and Costa A1ca. Counc11's Work Abroad Pro· gram, the only one of 1IS k1nd 1n the U.S cuts through all the red tape' 
Call for FREE brochures on work programs. d1scount au lares. language courses. and 
more. 
Council on lnt'l Educattonal Exchange 
(U.S. Sponsor of the lnt'l Student I D. Card) 



Chicago, IL 312·951·0585 Evanston. IL 708-475-5070 · 
triggered an 8-2 run with three points, putting San Antonio ahead 76-68 with 5:43 left. Detroit came no closer than five the rest of the way, failing to make a shot from the field from the 7:19 mark until Edwards' jumper with four-tenths of a second left. 
Trail Blazers 117, Hornets 102 
PORTLAND, Ore.-Clyde Drexler scored 20 of his 27 points in the first half, leading Portland past Charlotte. 
Also, many of these teams wanted a chance to show the NCAA selection committee that it made a mistake by leaving them out. Or, in the case of Santa Clara and Alabama­Birmingham, it was the first time the team had been invited anywhere for the postseason. 
The NWIT, for all its prob­lems, is a good concept. Just like the football bowl system and basketball's NIT, women's teams snubbed by the NCAA should have the chance to play in a postseason tournament. It's an opportunity to gain postseason experience and to pay one's dues in order to crack 
Portland is 8-0 against the third-year Hornets and are 26­1 against the four recent ex­pansion teams. Jerome Kersey and Kevin Duckworth each had eight points in the third quarter as the Blazers extended a 10­point halftime lead to 97-75 after three periods. 
Lakers 113, SuperSonics 96 
INGLEWOOD, Calif.-Magic Johnson scored 14 of his 33 points in the third quarter and added 11 assists as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Seattle 
the women's hoops' elite party, the NCAA tournament. 
The NWIT could be improved if it modeled itself on the men's NIT. Increase the size to 16 teams, play the first two rounds at campus sites, and then conduct the "Final Four" at a neutral site-preferably not Amarillo. 
This may not guarantee any more media and fan support than the NWIT receives now, but it certainly gives it a better chance. It also might gain the NWIT a little respect. 
Until then, however, all this tournament is going to receive are some half-hearted efforts and a few lauglt. · 

SuperSonics at the Forum for He had a 3-pointer, two free the 14th straight time. throws and a dunk during a 14­
Johnson returned to the 4 run to extend the Lakers' 8­lineup after tendinitis in both point halftime lead to 74-56 knees kept him out of Friday with midway through the third night's home loss to Milwaukee. quarter. 

With both Portland and Los Angeles winning last night, the Blazers remain one game ahead of the Lakers in the Pacific Division. 
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS 
OFF-CAMPUS co -PRESIDENTS' ELECTION 
Today! 
11 :00 am -1:00pm 5:00pm 7:00pm 
Off-Campus students must vote at the information desk at LaFortune. Students currently living in dorms but who are planning on living Off-Campus next year may vote in their dormitories. 
Please Vote! 
Run-off Elections will be held on Wednesday. 


Monday, March 25, 1991 The Observer page 19 
Pacers fight for playoff spot in Eastern Conference Sooners, Buffs ·~. 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -If it's late March, the Indiana Pacers must bo battling for ono of the remaining NBA playoff berths. 
!laving made the playoffs just three times since joining the league in 1976, their play in recent years often necessitates a last-minute victory surge to land a spot. 
With a victory last week over first-place Boston, the playoff push has begun. 
It heats up this week, when Indiana hosts Central Division rivals Atlanta on Tuesday and visits Detroit on Wednesday. The club then returns home for games against Golden State, Philadelphia and Washington before traveling to Atlanta on April6. 
"We've still got a long way to go. We've got some tough games coming up and we can't relax now," forward Detlef Schrempf said. "If we play the last games the way we played the last 20, we'll have a good chance of surprising a few peo­ple." 
Boston Is a possible first­round opponent In the playoffs, where the Pacers were trounced in three straight games by Detroit last year. They lost in the first round to Philadelphia in 1981 and Atlanta in 1987. · 
"The way we got beat last year, we should have gone home at the end of the (regular) season," forward LaSalle Thompson said. "Detroit just kicked us. We don't want that to happen this year." 
Thompson's resurgence as a rebounder helped hand the Celtics their fifth straight defeat in Market Square Arena last Friday. He grabbed 21 re­bounds, including 11 offensive boards, for his most as a Pacer. 
The Celtics have not won in Market Square Arena since March 16, 1989, and they split their four-game series with Indiana this season. 
"It's tough for us to win became coach in December, in­here, but the playoffs would be stituting a fast-paced offense a different story," Larry Bird that involves players who pre­said after his worst perfor­viously sat on the bench. mance this season against the The new offense and upsets Pacers. of Boston and Chicago at home 
Indiana has shown more have infused confidence in a kick this season since Bob Hill team that has been bothered by 

meet for third time this season 
NEW YORK (AP) -Although Oklahoma has beaten Colorado 23 straight times, Sooners coach Billy Tubbs doesn't thin"k the streak will affect their semifinal game in the National Invitation Tournament. 
"It doesn't matter If you have seven girls in a row, there's a 50-50 chance the next one will be a boy," Tubbs says. 
The Big Eight rivals will meet for the third time this season on Monday night at Madison Square Garden. Ok­lahoma won the two regular­season games, 113-97 in Nor­man and 69-68 in Boulder. 
"You can throw out the first two games because we're both playing better now," Colorado coach Joe Harrington says. "We 
shrinking attendance. know each other pretty well, so "We feel confident we can there shouldn't be any 
win. We're going to go out and surprises." 
play hard each and every night Massachusetts (20-11) plays 
and continue to play the best Stanford (18-13) in the other 
basketball we can," Chuck NIT semifinal. The Minutemen 
Person said. "It's going to be no barely made it to the final four, 
problem." winning three tournament games by a total of nine points. 
• • I qqI N.AZZ •+ ­
•
• s~T. A -I
• • prJ I ~' I 99I
Jill
• 
+• 7.•00 • 1.•00 •
• • STEPAN CENTER 
• • 
~ 

InforJIJIJtional Meeting Wed., MARCH 21, 1991 7:oop.m. 
SUB offiee 2nd Floor La Fortune 
•
:
: 
At least ONE Band Member
: 

MUSTbe present 
In the last round, they hit a 3­
•+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ pointer at the buzzer to force
:~~ee:!i:2~;0~d 
went on to beat "My team hasn't slept since 
: ~~:~~a~~·~ ~=f~~:cr~u;::~~
• 
"They're afraid if they wake up, 

• 
the dream will be over."


• 

Stanford finished in a five­: way tie for fifth place in the
Pac-10, but has looked impres­sive In Its NIT victories over 
• Houston, Wisconsin and
+southern Illinois.
"We've had a rollercoaster 
• 
year," coach Mike Montgomery 

• 
says. "It's been a bit of an


• ~d~~::.~ 

for us. but the ending 
• 
Colorado (18-13) hasn't 

• 
beaten Oklahoma (19-14) since 

• 
1982, but this will be their first : :~ting outside Big Eight terri­



~ ::~= 
~ following 
Monday, March 25
~ 

Cushing Engineering Auditorium ~ 7:30p.m. $2.50 co-sponsored by
~ 

Year of Women and Educational Media 
~• 

239-5465 
......................................~ 
-

page 20 The Observer Monday, March 25, 1991 
Chicago reaches 1 00-point mark; Sabres beat Flyers 

CHICAGO (AP)-Mike Hudson scored two of Chicago's five second-period goals Sunday as the Blackhawks beat the Minnesota North Stars 5-4 to reach the 100-point mark for the first time since the 1982-83 season. 
The victory gave Chicago 101 points and a four-point lead over the idle St. Louis Blues in the Norris Division race for first place. Both teams have four games left. 
Brian Bellows gave the North Stars a 1-0 lead at 3:49 of the second when he deflected in a slap shot from Neil Wilkinson. The Blackhawks responded with four goals in a 3:48 span beginning with Hudson's first score at 9:59. 
Sabres 6, Flyers 2 
BUFFALO, N.Y.-Alexander Mogilny scored two unassisted goals, his 26th and 27th of the season, as Buffalo defeated Philadelphia. 
The Flyers, 2-8-2 in their last 12 games, dropped two points behind Washington, which tied Boston 3-3, and re­mained one point behind idle New Jersey in the fight for the fourth and final Patrick in the third period on goals by Ray Bourque and Ron Hoover within 56 seconds. But Wash­ington, seeking its ninth straight playoff appearance, got within 3-2 when Pivonka scored over fallen goalie Andy Moog with 12 1/2 minutes re­maining. 
NWIT 
continued from page 24 Margaret Nowlin also had a fine tourney, averaging 16.7 points and 7.7 rebounds. "Margaret had a great tour­nament," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "Coming down here was worth it just for her to get that experience. She re­sponded really well when Krissi went down. It's especially good looking to next year, how she came on late this season." Notre Dame's problems, however, began before the NWIT even started. Neither Sara Liebscher (ankle) nor Robinson (stomach flu) prac­ticed the week before the tour­nament. This threw off Notre Dame's timing on the offensive end, especially in Thursday's first­round matchup. Santa Clara took advantage of 18 Irish frrst­half turnovers to open up a close game. A 25-5 Broncos run in the last 12:03 of the half broke a 14-14 tie to grab a 39­19 halftime lead. The Broncos led by as much as 26 points with 17:28 left in the game before the Irish made a run. Robinson and Nowlin combined for 15 points in a 19­5 Notre Dame spurt to cut the lead to 52-40 with 11:20 re­maining, but could get no closer the rest of the game. Friday's game was much closer throughout, but in the end, the Cardinals' effort on the offensive boards-22 total-was too much for the outmanned Irish. "They just overmatched us inside," McGraw said. Instrumental to Louisville's attack was freshman Gwen Doyle. The Metro League's Freshman of the Year scored 34 points and grabbed 10 re­bounds, seven on the offensive end. "We didn't have anyone who could guard her or blocl: her out," McGraw said. Neither team led by more than five in the first half, with Louisville holding on to a slim 43-42 lead at the break. The Irish roared out of the locker room, scoring the first seven points to take a 49-43 lead. But the Cardinals fought back, regaining the lead with 
9:42 left on Renee Huntsinger's layup. For the next eight min­utes, there were three lead changes and four ties until Louisville took the lead for good with 1:37 left. 

Huntsinger made the front end of a one-and-one for a 7 4­73 lead, but missed the second. Nowlin grabbed the rebound, but Doyle stole the ball back and laid it in for a three-point lead. 
The Irish proceeded to turn the ball over on their next two possessions, allowing the Car­dinals to build an 80-73 lead. 
"Turnovers haunted us. We turned it over twice in the last minute when we had a chance to win it," McGraw said. 
By Saturday afternoon's game 
with third-seeded Northern Illinois, the Irish were playing simply for pride At the start, Notre Dame looked sharp, grabbing an early 20-10 lead. 
The Irish extended the mar­gin to 11, 36-25, with 6:08 left in the half before the Huskies went on a 20-8 run to take a 45-44 halftime lead. 
In the second half, neither team could establish firm con­trol. The biggest lead either team could manage was six by Northern with 14:47 remaining, but after a Notre Dame time­out, it scored eight of the next ten points within a 1:43 span to tie the score at 58. 
The score still was tied at 80 apiece with 2:35 left in the game when Husky Angela Lockett broke the deadlock with a free throw. Almost two minutes elapsed before Denise Dove's three-pointer with 41 seconds left gave Northern Illinois an 84-80 lead. 
"We had a mix-up on defense on that play," McGraw said, "and she hit that three. That's what cost us the game." 
Freshman Kristin Knapp hit two free throws to cut the margin to two with 26 seconds left. Notre Dame quickly fouled Dee Dee Jeske, and she missed the front end of the bonus, set­ting up a golden opportunity to tie the game. 
But sophomore Coquese Washington missed a short baseline jumper with eight sec­onds left, and after another Husky miss at the foul line, Washington's desperation 30­footer clanged off the front iron. 
Division playoff spot. 
Mogilny took advantage of two giveaways by the Philadelphia defense -one of. which he forced with good forechecking -to give the Sabres their third victory in four games and a three-point lead over idle Hartford in the battle for third place in the Adams Division. 
Bruins 3, Capitals 3, OT 
LANDOVER, Md.-Michal Pivonka scored twice as Wash­ington rallied to tie Boston. 
The tie moved Washington, which is 7-2-2 in its last 11 games, one point ahead of the New Jersey Devils into sole possession of third place in the Patrick Division. 
Boston broke a 1-1 tie early 
The Caps kept the pressure on, and tied the score with 9:46 remaining on Kelly Miller's team-leading 24th goal. 
Rangers 3, Islanders 1 
NEW YORK-Brian Mullen and Corey Millen scored within a 17 -second span of the third period as the Rangers broke an eight-game losing streak with their victory over the Islanders, clinching a playoff spot. 
The victory also moved the Rangers one point behind Pittsburgh in the battle for first place in the Patrick Division. The Rangers have three games left in the regular season, in­cluding a meeting with Pittsburgh on the final day of the season next Sunday. The Penguins have four games left. 
, 

Student Government Presents ... 
A Public Forum On Contemporary Issues 
with 
Stan Curtis 
Fol.Ulder of U.S.A. Harvest 
"How You Can Help Feed the Poor" 
Monday, March 25, 1991 7:30pm CSC Main Auditorium 
~TUDE •NT 
GOYIINMINJ This lecture is co-sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns 
-
-~-----­
------, i 
I Monday, March 25, 1991 The Observer page 21 I 
SPORTS SHORTS 
Woosnam defeats Hallet In sydden death playoff 
•NEW ORLEANS (AP)-For a moment, Ian Woosnam said, lw had visions of a replay from last year. "I thought the same thing was going to happen to me that happened to Greg (Norman)," he said. 
But the 5-foot, 4 1/2-inch Welshman ducked Jim Hallet and went on to gain his first American PGA title in a two-hole sudden death playoff Sunday. 
Hallet, not yet a winner in a four-season American career, blew a three-stroke lead, then came from llve strokes back. He capped the revival with a 4-foot birdie putt on the final hole to gain a share of the lead and force the playoff. 
After both he and Woosnam parred the first extra hole, Hallet dumped his tee shot into the left bunker on the par-3 17th hole, the second of the playoff. 
Hallet scared the hole on his sand shot, the ball skipping over the cup and just missing the flagstick, slipping about 6 feet beyond the hole. When Hallet missed the par-saving putt, Woosnam's 2-putt par became the winner. 
Woosnam, who played the final round in 5-under-par 67, posted the 24th victory of his world-wide career and his second of the season. 
Wheaton moves Into ATP top 10 with y!ctory 
•KEY BISCAYNE, Fla.-Even though David Wheaton had mor!l aces, Jim Courier won the jackpot. 
Courier trumped Wheaton's 10 aces with steady play from tho baseline for a 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 victory in Sunday's final at the International Players Championships. The first-place prize of $179,000 was the biggest payday of Courier's five-year career. 
"I don't think it's hit me yet that the tournament is over,'' Courier said after beating his former high school classmate. "I feel !ike I've still got to play one more match.'' 
The title was Courier's second this month and the third of his career. He beat Guy Forget in the final at Indian Wells, Calif., on March 10. 
The Dade City, Fla., native has won 12 consecutive matches and will move into the top 10 this week for the first time. He'll be ninth in the computer rankings effective Monday. 
Dodgers win In exhibition baseball 
•VERO BEACH, Fla.-Bob Ojeda, almost a lock for the starting rotation, pitched six strong innings and Juan Samuel drove in four runs, leading the Los Angeles Dodgers past the Atlanta Braves 8-1 Sunday. 
Dodger right fielder Darryl Strawberry, who had been out sinco March 11 with a strained right hamstring muscle, re­turned to tho lineup. Strawberry went 1·for-3 with a third* inning single off Atlanta left-bander Tony Castillo. 
Clock strikes midnight for Temple as Macon misses last-second jumper 
(AP)~N orth Carolina and Duke, whose campuses are just a long jog apart, will be sharing a new neighborhood next weekend in Indianapolis. 
The Atlantic Coast Confer­
ence rivals advanced to the 
Final Four on Sunday, giving 
the league half of the NCAA 
semifinal field for the second 
straight year. 
North Carolina held off te­nacious Temple 75-72 for the East Regional championship, ending Dean Smith's longest absence from the Final Four and making him the first coach to get there in four different decades. 
Duke defeated St. John's 78­61 for the Midwest title, joining UCLA and Cincinnati as the only schools to make four consecutive Final Four appearances. 
The victories set up intrigu­ing semifinal matchups next Saturday at the Hoosier Dome. 
The Blue Devils (30-7) will play top-ranked UNLV (34-0) in a rematch of last year's cham­pionship game, a 103-73 rout by the Runnin' Hebels. North Carolina (29-5) meets Kansas (26-7) in a pupil-teacher show­down between Dean Smith and former assistant Roy Williams. 
The Final Four also had two ACC teams last year, Duke and Georgia Tech. 
King Rice hit four free throws in the last 22 seconds and Temple's Mark Macon missed a potential, game-tying 3-pointer with four seconds left, putting North Carolina in 
the Final Four for the first time 
since winning the national title 
in 1982. 

"Maybe now I won't get any letters asking why I hadn't been to the Final Four," said Smith, who lost four consecutive regional finals after winning his first seven. "I can hardly remember the last time we made it. I'm pleased for the seniors who haven't been there before.'' 
Although his team lost, Macon wasn't haunted by his humiliating 6-for-29 perfor­mance in the 1988 East Regional final, which took place on the same court in East Rutherford, N.J. 
The senior guard scored 31 points on 12-of-23 shooting and earned regional MVP honors. His fourth 3-pointer, with nine seconds left, cut North Carolina's lead to 73-72. But Rice then hit two free throws and Macon misfired on his final 3-point attempt. 
''I've never guarded anyone other than Rodney Monroe that has so much confidence in his shot," said Rick Fox, who shadowed Macon on his final drive. "He's definitely one of the best shooting guards in the country." 
Smith moved into a tie with UCLA's John Wooden for most career victories in the NCAA tournament. Smith's tourney record is 47-21; Wooden was 47-18. 
"We've been close before, getting to the final eight and fi­nal 16 every year," Rice said. 
"You have to be a little lucky to get here." 
Fox and Hubert Davis led 
North Carolina with 19 points 
each. Mik Gilgore had 18 for 
Temple (24-10). 
A 12-3 run by Temple pulled the Owls within two points with 
11:47 remaining, but the Tar Heels countered with a 9-3 spurt to extend the lead to 61­53. 
Temple, trying to join 11th­seeded LSU in 1986 as the only double-digit seeds to reach the Final Four, stayed close down the stretch but could never overtake North Carolina. 
At Pontiac, Mich., Bobby Hurley scored 20 points and ran the Duke offense brilliantly as the Blue Devils advanced to the Final Four for the fifth time in six years. 
"I see a killer," St. John's coach Lou Carnesecca said. "He makes the other guys look bet­ter. He hits the threes; he's smart." 
The Blue Devils will be mak­ing their ninth overall trip to the national semis, but they've never gone all the way. That's a record for Final Four futility. 
UCLA made 10 straight Final Four appearances from 1967­76, winning eight times, and Cincinnati was there five straight years from 1959-63, winning twice. 
Duke raced to a 40-27 half­time lead Sunday and was never threatened. The Blue Devils are 28-0 this season when leading at halftime. 
SPIKE LEEI INDIGO GIRLS} MAYA ANGELOUI BERTICE BERRY 1 CASINO NIGHT 1PANAMA CITY BEACHI AND MORE ! ! 
WANT TO BE A PART OF ALL THIS? 
JOIN S.U.B.!!! 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS AT THE SECRETARY'S DESK ON THE SECOND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE. DUE 
FRIDAY APRIL 5, 1991: 
MARKETING DEPARTMENT 
Publicity: coordinates the account executives and the advertising for the events of each programming commission. 
Marketin~ Research: develops and compiles surveys to assist commissioners in planning events. 
Account Executives: coordinates all the advertising for a specific programming commission. 
Artist: works with the account executive to design ads 
RElATIONS DEPARTMENT External Relations: helps promote S.U.B. and its activities both on and off campus. Internal Relations: works to promote good communication and unity within S.U.B. itself. 
CONI'ROLLER'S DEPARTMENT 
Assistant Controllers: keep track of all financial transaction within S.U.B. and acts as an budget advisor to programming commissioners. (Accounting and Finance Majors Preferred) 

PROGRAMMING DEPARTMENT: Call_lpus Entertainment: presents comedians, hypnotists, and other social events. Cultural Arts: promotes an awareness of music, literature, drama and dance. Ideas & Issues: sponsors lectures, informal talks, and debates on contemporary and controversial issues. Movies: is responsible for films shown every weekend . Musical Entertainment: bring bands of all sizes to campus. Services: plans and organizes various trips and services for students. Special Events: plans and organizes week long events and snecial festivals. 
Sophomore Literary Festival: a week long festival with readings and talks by visiting writers. 
ColleJliate Jazz Festival: a weekend competition between visiting college jazz bands. 
Antostal: the weeklong spring festival including a band, competitions, and activities. 

-


I he Observer 
page 22 

Softball sweeps weekend twinbills 
in Notre Dame's first home knocked in the game-winning
Observer Staff Report 

game of the season. The Irish runs in both Notre Dame vic­
The Notre Dame softball team then went on to take the second tories. The Irish triumphed 2-1 upped its record to 9-12 this half of the twinbill, blasting the and 1-0 over Saint Louis, who weekend, as it swept four Ramblers 12-1. Loyola saw fell to 3-10. 
Pitcher Staci Alford raised

games from MCC competition in their record slide to 3-11. its first home stand of the sea­The Saint Louis Billikens met her season won-loss record to son. a similar fate at the hands of 3-2, while Missy Linn improved The Irish defeated Loyola 2-1 the Irish, as Carrie Miller to 4-7. 
Dilucia named MVP of Blue-Gray tourney 
Observer Staff Report 42-year history. Previous MVP's lifted to 3 7-4 with his win on include Stan Smith. Sunday. Notre Dame junior David "To put this·in perspective, The 14th-ranked Irish were not as successful as DiLucia.
DiLucia defeated Brian Gyetko Stan Smith was once voted the MVP of the Blue-Gray," said The rest of the team all lost
of Arizona State at the Blue­Gray Invitational in Mont­Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "This their matches against ninth­gomery, Alabama on Sunday. is considered to be one of the ranked Arizona State. The Irish 
The victory gave DiLucia his top tournaments in the country tied Texas Christian for third place in the 16-team field,
third straight win in three days and for David to earn that 
dropping their record to 12-9

at the tournament, which is one honor, especially when he has of the most prestigious in the to win three matches against for the year. country. ranked opponents while playing Bayliss remained optimistic with a bad back, is quite an about the loss. achievement." "I'm disappointed we lost to­
In addition, DiLucia was 
day, but overall I think we had
named the Blue-Gray's Most DiLucia's current win streak a good outing and this shouldValuable Player. He is the first was extended to 17 matches help us in the polls," said

non-senior ever to be voted MVP of the tournament in its and his record for the year was Bayliss. 
SPORTS BRIEFS Walania twirls five-hit shutout against Cavaliers 
Observer Staff Report while first baseman Frank three-for-three and drove in two runs. Joe Binkiewicz added 
•The Irish Heartlites fun runs are coming up April 11th. Jacobs and Eric Danapilis a round-tripper, his first of the 
The 18th-ranked Notre Dame homered. baseball team (13-7) lost two­The Fighting Irish evened the There will be a 3 & 6 mile run. Students and staff should start season.
training now. 

of-three games to the Virginia weekend series at one game•Scorekeepers are needed for the Bookstore Basketball Cavaliers (11-9-2) this weekend apiece in the first half of the The Virginia pitching staff 
Tournament. Anyone who is interested should contact Shelley reverted to its Doctor Jekyll self 
at the University of Virginia. doubleheader. Notre Dame Guilbaut at 283-2549. The Cavaliers were up 10-5 spanked the Virginia pitchers in the final game of the series,
•Women's Bookstore basketball will have sign-ups on in the first game of the series, for 12 hits in a 12-0 assault. as it got five strong innings Tuesday, March 26th from 6-9 pm at the Sorin Room of La which was called after five in­Alan Walania (4-2) went the from starter Don Melroy. Fortune and the lobby of Haggar at St. Mary's. nings on Friday because of rain distance with a complete game Melroy surrendered two runs 
•Spring Yoga class is being offered on six consecutive and darkness. The game, in ad­shutout, as he struck out six, and four hits while fanning dition to a double-header, was walked none and allowed five three. The Cavaliers took ad­
Wednesday evenings beginning on march 27th. Classes are 
concluded on Sunday. Chris hits. vantage of a Pat Leahy hit bat­held in room 114 in Loftus Center from 6:30-8:30 pm. Sign ups Michalak (2-1) took the first­Notre Dame scored in five of ter to break a 2-2 tie in the are in the NVA office. Cost is $15 for the six sessions. 
game loss for the Irish, as he the seven innings. Frank fourth inning. Virginia added a•Antostal mud volleyball sing-ups will be held Thursday surrendered eight runs on five Jacobs slapped his second pair of insurance runs in the 
and Friday April 4th and 5th from 4 to 6 pm in the S.U.B. homer of the wee.kend, while fifth when Kevin Stock hit in a 1
hits in 2 2/3 innings. Second 

office. For more information call Lou at 283-2071. Minimum baseman Greg Layson paced going two-for-three with two two-run single. Todd Ruyak 1 two women per team. Entry charge is $5 per team. the Notre Dame offense with a runs scored and three RBI. pitched two scoreless innings to three-for-five performance, Mlke Rooney went a perfect preserve the 5-2 win. 
MEHARRY MEDICAL COLLE:GE 

Graduate Studies in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology 

At Meharry Medical College, graduate programs are available in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology leading to the Ph.D. degree. Opportunities exist for research in: 
• 
molecular biology -molecular genetics 

• 
membrane biophysics 

• 
transmembrane signalling, extracellular matrix and growth factor reserach 

• 
enzymology and structure-function relationships in macromolecules 

• 
cellular and metabolic regulation 

• 
cell biology of cell-cell and cell-substratum interactions 

• 
molecular virology 


• 
molecular neuroscience 

• 
regulation of gene expression 


Tuition support is provtded for all qnalified students, in addition to an annual stipend of up to $11,000. Meharry Medical College is a historically black institution. 
,-----------------------------------, 
MEHARRY MEDICAL CoLLEGE 1 Fellowships For Graduate Studies In Biochemistry And Molecular Biology 1
For further information complete and mailform to: Please Print I 
Name _________________Telephone --------------I 
Ifeanyi j. Arinze, Ph.D. I 
Addre~ -------------------------------------------------------------I
Chairman 
I

Dept. of Biochemistry City, State, Zip--------------------------------­
I

Meharry Medical College Nashville, TN 37208 I am interested in graduate study beginnin.o------------Faii/Sprin.b--------I to pursue Ph.D. M.S. I
Tel: (615) 327-6345 
I receive (expect to receive) the---------------degree in _______ I 
Please send me appltcatton materials. I 
L-----------------------------------~ 
-


Monday, March 25, 1991 The Observer page 23 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD. 
3:15 p.m. Theory Workshop, "Concepts and Measurement In National Income Accounting." Ellen O'Brien, graduate student. Room 131, Decio Faculty Hall. Sponsored by Economics Department. 
7 p.m.'2"Teachlng and Research Workshops-Panel Discussion, "The Role and Status of Teaching and Research by Graduate Students at Notre Dame." Panelists, Father Edward Malloy, Prof. Timothy O'Meara, and Nathan Batch. Auditorium, CCE. Sponsored by Graduate Student Union. 
7:30 
p.m. Series, "Women: A Film Festival; How Filmmakers Depict Women." Film and discussion "My Brilliant Career." Cushing Engineering Auditorium. Sponsored by Year of Women Committee and Office of Education Media. 

7:30 
p.m. "Forbidden Broadway." National Touring Production. O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. 


LECTURES 
4 p.m. Lecture, "Gonder Bias in Domestic Violence Courts."Judge Sheila Murphy, Cook County Circuit Court. Law School, Room 121. Sponsored by Women's Legal Forum. 
7 p.m. Lecture, "New Challenges for Morality: Medical Ethics in the '90's." Professor Jean Porter, Department of Theology. Ilesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by 
Provost Office, Academic Code of Honor Committee, and Student Academic Council Committee. 
7 -9 p.m. Lecture, "Stewards of the Earth: Energy and the Environment Hemp for Victory." Nieuwland Science Hall, room 184. Sponsored by Students for Environmental Action. Part of SEA Pre-Cycling Campaign. 
8 p.m. Lecture, "Post War Middle East." Father Gaffney, department of AnthropolOb"Y· Nieuwland Science Ball, room 105. Sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Peace Support Group. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'«~EN '{()J'~ DeNt. P\Jmt-IG 
to\'{ TC>'{S f>..Wf>..~. '<OV Cf>..t-1 Gt:T TO '-I-lOR.~ <:»\ Mi Ml\.1\-1 f>-'SS\Gt-\\1\HI\ 
BILL WATTERSON 
IS~'\ n-1\'3 1\.\t. 1..\l=t.? Wt. GET 
iO \Xl W\-\1\1£\J£.1<. 'tiE Wf>..t-IT W\.11\.£ ~0~-IWC>-':>\\Cl't..":> li't.~ !X:>E'S f>...U. nit. WORK ! \\E. 
\Xlt.SN~ EV~N CJJ!--\1'\..P.I~! 
WC. t>Clts"''l C.Ot<l.l'tAIN, B\)\ \-\15 SEI.F-RIG~OVS"'ts':> S\ll<£. Gt15 ~ ~" ~t.MS . 
ACROSS 
1 Little So-­5 Moist &Imitator 
12 Until 13 Actress Bo -­15Actress Miles 
from Okla. 16 Small cut 17 Evergreen 
shrub 18 Part of Q.E.D. 19 Bo --,former 
Michigan coach 22 Panay native 23 Bury 26 Multi-sports pro 
Bo-­3o"Guys--· Dolls" 

31 Commandment adverb 33 Sillier 34--de France 35 Down: Prefix 36 Eyeshade 37 Mars, e.g. 38 Nero or Cato 39 Discharge 40 Malt liquor 41 Beef cuts 42 Juan or Mateo preceder 43Help 44 Guitarist Bo 
45 Plunders 
47 Unit of work 
48 Store selling 
cold cuts 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

55 Venturesome 58 Time period 59 Ocean motion 60 Seed covering 61 Fodder pits 62 Lyric poems 63 Bohemian 64 Author 
Deighton 65 Confined 
DOWN 
1 Plays on words 2 "Iliad," e.g. 3 Engrave 4 Nudge 5"-the 
Money," 1933 song 6 Norse explorer 7 M.I.T. specialty 
a Ward off 9 For each 1 o NOW aim 
11 Stool pigeon 13 He owes money 14 AI--, of 
baseball's Hall of Fame 20 Microwave device 21 Complete 24 Tooth coating 25 Turn 26 Plays hot jazz 
27 "The Male --,"Fonda film 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




28 Gambling room 29 Nautical unit of speed 30 Priestly 
vestment 32 Silverweed 34 Wrath 35Gelid 37 Ancient 38 Arete 40 Passageways 41 Estuaries 

43 Consumed 52 Faction 44 Minister's aide 53 Early garden 46 Strangely 54 Cozy place 49 A dyewood tree 55 Bleat 50 Songwriter 56 Bobby of 
Porter hockey 51 Cease 57 Ignited 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e each minute). 
JAY HOSLER

SPELUNKER 
--THEN TH£ Tl!R£E StAR 5 FoufoiD tiOLDILOCKS-BilBE AND BEFORE SIJ€ CiltJL.D E:SCAPE., THEY BIT HER HEAD OFF AND DfWCeD ON HER BODY ALL-Nlfi!HT LONfn. 
THE END) 


C 1991 Umvtrul PreiS 11:.111 
Amoebas at war 

• 
.... 

Sports 
page 24 Monday, March 25, 1991 
Women's hoops finishes disappointing 8th at NWIT 
... 
Turnovers, injuries plague  Women's teams deserve  
Irish throughout weekend  better than trip to Amarillo  
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor  AMARILLO-As I sat watching the champion­ 
ship game of the  1991  
AMARILLO-How valuable is senior Kriss! Davis  National Women's Invita­ 
to the Notre Dame women's basketball team?  tional Tournament, one  
With her, the Irish finished 23-6 and were picked  thought constantly crossed  
the top seed in the National Women's Invitational  my mind.  
Tournament. When she went down late in the first  These teams deserved  
half of their first game against Santa Clara  better than this.  
Thursday, any hopes of a  Notre Dame cham­ At least if a men's team  
pionship went with her. Davis' groin injury forced her to miss the second half of Notre Dame's 81-65 first-round loss to the  doesn't make the NCAA tournament, they have a respectable alternative in  Rene Ferran . . Associate Sports Editor  
Broncos and Friday's 80-75 loss to Louisville in the  the NIT. But when eventual champion Santa Clara's  
consolation semifinals. And despite her return and  coach Caren Horstmeyer announced to the crowd  
senior guard Karen Robinson's career-high 30  how she was so happy to have won the NWIT, one  
poinl<t, the Irish fell to Northern lllinois 84-82 in the seventh-place game Saturday afternoon.  - could almost sense a reaction of "Yeah, right." The tournament directors should look at the fact  
Hobinson's 30 points allowed her to become Notre  that all the top seeds lost in the first round. When  
Dame's all-time scoring leader with 1,590 points  the seventh and eighth seeds are battling for the  
overall, one more than Trena Keys managed from  championship and the first and third are playing for  
1983-1986.  seventh, there's cause for concern.  
Still, there were few bright spots for the Irish (23­ It either means  that the seeding committee  
9) this weekend. Rather than prove their case that  doesn't have a  clue how to seed teams-which  
they were deserving of an NCAA bid, their eighth­ considering the NWIT is 23 years old, I'll give them  
place finish in the eight-team NWIT appeared to  the benefit of the doubt that they know something  
bolster the NCAA's position.  - about the process-or that none of the top seeds  
Hobinson  earned  All-Tournament  honors,  cared about winning the NWIT.  
shooting over 60 percent from the field and averaging 20.7 points in the three games. Junior  - Judging from the efforts that the top three seeds produced, it seems that the latter is the case.  
Observer File Photo  

Senior Karen Robinson became Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer at see NWIT I page 20 this weekend's NWIT. see TRIP I page 18 
_Lacrosse gauges improvement in 20-4 loss to Loyola 
starter Chris Parent at the be­ginning of the second half. 
"It's good for us to know that he can come in and play when we need him," said Corrigan. "I was happy for him that he came in and played like he did." 
The Irish should gain some experience from playing a team as loaded as Loyola, but five games into the season, they are still searching for a total team effort. 
"We haven't come together as a team yet," said senior at­tackman Mike Sennet. "We're just not focused right now as a team." 
Corrigan echoed Sennet's feelings. 
"We've got to put together 60 minutes and we still haven't done that this year." 
While Notre Dame had many ground balls, Loyola used their speed to control the game, go-
see LOYOLA I page 17 

Fencers finish 3rd at NCAAs 
By DAVE McMAHON Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team found out Saturday where it stands among the lacrosse powerhouses. 
After their 20-4 loss at Moose Krause Stadium to the presea­son number-one team in the country, the Loyola (Md.) Greyhounds, the Irish (2-3) re­alized that a total team effort is needed in order to compete with the scholarship-laden Eastern schools. 
"When you play a team of their caliber, you can't get be­hind early," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "We had to change our game plan and do things that we knew we would have a tough time doing against them." 
Notre Dame threatened 45 seconds into the game, but sophomore Ed Lamb had a goal nullified due to an Irish penalty. It was all downhill from there, 

Mayers' singles victories lead Belles to 5-4 victory over Albion in season opener 
as Loyola (4-1) capitalized on many Irish mistakes to score five more than their average output of 15 goals. 
With Loyola leading 5-0 with 
4:02 remaining in the opening stanza, Irish junior attackman Mike Sullivan sneaked a shot past goalie Tim Dunnigan to put Notre Dame on the board. Sullivan finished with two goals and two assists, increasing his season totals to 11 goals and 10 assists. 

Down 6-1 in the first quarter, freshman Willie Sutton rined an over-the-shoulder shot past Dunnigan after an assist from Sullivan to cut the lead to 6-2. Sophomore Brian M~yglothing scored the final Irish goal of the first half, which ended with the Greyhounds ahead 12-3. 
In one of the few highlights for the Irish, sophomore Pat Finn got his first action in goal, playing admirably in his colle­giate debut despite a potent Loyola offense. finn replaced 

By LYNNE BRAGG 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's College ten­nis team started off regular season play on the right foot Thursday night with a decisive 5-4 win over Albion College. 
"We played an excellent team. Albion is ranked third in

• 
the Division III of the NCAA," Belles coach Dr. JoAnne Nester said. "It was a super win for us." 
In first singles, senior Sarah Mayer grabbed the win from Albion's top player by emerging from a second-set tiebreaker to win 6-2, 7-6. 
Junior Ellen Mayer came back from being down 5-1 in · the first set to win in straight sets 6-4, 6-4 in another singles' match. 
Junior Mary Kascielski and freshman Mary Cosgrove also brought home wins for Saint Mary's. Nester especially praised the play of Cosgrove. 
"It was nice to see a fresh­man come out in the first match of the season and win," Nester said. "We would not have won the match if Cosgrove had not won in the fourth sin­gles." 
In doubles action, the power­ful team of Mayer and Mayer cruised to a 6-0, 6-1 victory. 
"Our Mayer doubles team is extremely strong," Nester said . 
" I can't see anyone beating them this spring." 
Nester felt that the first three singles teams of both Saint Mary's and Albion were very strong, making the Belles' vic­tory even more impressive. Their continued success will be important as Saint Mary's faces a difficult schedule. Still, Nester looks forward to a great season. 
"Although we are members of Division lll, we will be compet­ing against numerous teams in Division I," she said. "It should be a challenging season for us." 
The Saint Mary's tennis team will be home against Hope College Tuesday at 3 p.m. 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame fencing squads finished a combined third overall in the team standings in this weekend's NCAA fencing championships held at Penn State. 
The host Nittany Lions won the team title, with Columbia finishing second. After the Irish, Yale and Pennsylvania rounded out the top five. 
On Friday, juniors Jubba Beshin and David Caulder­head took second and third respectively in the individual epee finals, while Greg Wozniak took 13th. Colum­bia's Marc Oshima took the 
title. 
Tho Lions also took team honors in the men's foil, defeating tho Irish 5-2 in the finals. 
Saturday's action saw Notre Dame junior Heidi Piper win the women's individual foil title over Ute Schaeper of Fairleigh Dickinson. But in the men's sabre, the Irish again settled for second place, this time finishing behind Penn State. 

Yesterday, Notre Dame took seventh in the men's epee competition. Columbia earned the team epee championship. 





