
!W~~J!~t
.ge.. 
. 1!1--­

server 
Samt Marxs Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

VOLUME XXIV N0.21 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Senator Bradley addresses U.S. domestic issues 
By CATHY FLYNN News Writer 
Sweeping changes in interna­tional politics present both new possibilities and challenges concerning domestic issues in the United States, said Sen. Bill Bradley (D-N.J.) in a visit to Notre Dame Friday. 
"It will take all of us to move this country forward to address the demands that are presented by the end of communism," Bradley said. lie addressed the role of the public sector in dealing with recent political upheaval in his lecture, "America's Challenge In the 
NO Security issues theft 
.


warn1ng 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame Security/Police is advising students to take greater precautions against theft after six dorm rooms were burglarized last week. 
Three dorm rooms in Flanner llall were burglarized on September 19. One room each in Knott Hall and Grace Hall suffered burglaries on September 18. Another room in Grace Hall was burglarized on September 16. 
The list of property reported stolen includes small but valuable items such as watches, wallets, and jewelry. 
Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security, said the doors to all of the burglarized rooms were unlocked when the crimes took place. 
"One of the victims left his door open for five minutes while he took a shower," Hurley said. "When he came back, his wallet was gone." 
Hurley strongly suggests that dorm residents lock their doors whenever they leave their rooms unattended, even if they are only to be unattended for a short while. 
No suspects have been ar­rested In connection with any of the six cases. 
Post-Communist World," part of the Business Advisory Council's Colloquium on "The Challenge 
• Related lectures I page 3 
of Education." 
Economic reform and a change in societal attitudes are necessary in order for the U.S. to face the new issues, said Bradley. The U.S. should lead the world by example, he added. 
"We need to move from an emphasis on today to an em­phasis on the tomorrow," Bradley said. "America has al-



Iraq will permit arms inspection 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -A top Iraqi envoy met Sunday with the Security Council presi­dent and said Baghdad will permit arms inspections by he­licopters, but Western diplo­mats said the response fell short of demands. 
The Security Council had ordered Iraq to permit unhin­dered flighl'i or face unspecified consequences. President Bush earlier warned that If Iraq refuses, the U.S. Air Force would send warplanes to ac­company the helicopters. 
Bush, in a speech Monday to the General Assembly, will reaf­firm his determination that Iraq lay bare its weapons program to U.N. inspectors, but there will be "np ultimatum" to Saddam Hussein, said a White House official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
A high-level U.S. official at the United Nations, also speaking anonymously, said the Iraqi response "fell far short of what the Security Council required." 
The official at the United Na­tions said the Iraqis failed to give a written response de­
manded  by  the  Security  
Council,  but  would  not  
elaborate.  

Iraqi Foreign Minister Ahmad Hussein met with Council Presi­dent Jean-Bernard Merimee for 40 minutes, but neither would discuss specifics of the Iraqi response to U.N. demands for unconditional acceptance of the flighlo;. 
Asked afterward about the flights, Hussein told re­porters,"Yes, of course they can use helicopters." But Iraq has said that before, and has agreed to U.N. flighl'i in princi­pie while imposing conditions untenable to the Council. 
Those include a ban on pho­tography, flights over Baghdad, a demand that Iraqi crewmen be aboard and that time limits be placed on inspections. Previ­ously, Iraq would allow only flights on Iraqi helicopters by its pilots. 
Merimee, the U.N. ambas­sador from France and current Council president, only told re­porters: "I cannot comment ... I cannot say." 
Later, a high-level source on the U.N. inspection commission, who spoke on condition not being named, said "the as­surances given by the Iraqi for­eign minister regarding the he­licopters were not satisfactory." 
Merimee said the full Security 
see IRAQ/ page 4 

respondents said that they be­lieve that today's children will have a lower standard of living than their parents, said Bradley. America needs to lengthen its perspective, he added. 
"If we are serious about Im­proving the life changes of families, public policy has got to change," Bradley said. We need to increase the national savings rate and get serious about reducing our budget, he explained. 
Bradley said that he also supports changes in tax policy, health care policy, and the im­plementation of a policy to al­low voluntary pension dona­tions to certain public pro­grams. These programs in­clude Headstart, The Women's, Infant's, Children's Feeding Program, and The Child/Maternal Health Pro­gram, he said. 
"We need to face up to some things at home," said Bradley. His tax policy changes would " include a $350 tax credit per child in every family, he said. 
Healthcare policy changes supported by Bradley Include universal health care coverage for every child up to age 16. He also advocates Medicaid coverage for drug treatment, 
see BRADLEY/ page 4 

Croatia and Yugoslav army declare cease-fire 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia -The federal defense minister and Croatia declared a cease-fire Sunday, and reports suggested that the fierce fighting in the breakaway republic was easing at least temporarily. 
Earlier, federal air and ar­tillery attacks overlapped a 3 
p.m. (9 a.m. EDT) deadline for a halt to the fighting, raising doubts about whether officials would be able to rein in the warring factions. 
Previous cease-fires have failed to end the conflict that has claimed more than 500 lives since Croatia declared in­dependence June 25 and severely weakened the Yugoslav government's control over the army. 
Later in the day, both sides accused each other of numer­ous cease-fire violations. 
However, Croatian defense officials in the Adriatic ports of Split, Pula, Rijeka and Dubrovnik reported that fed­eral naval blockades imposed along the Croatian coast last week were being lifted. 
Officials in the Croatian capi­tal of Zagreb also ended the nightly black-out imposed last week during air attacks near the city. A lull In fighting also was reported in Osijek, a bat­tered city in eastern Croatia. 
Croatian President Franjo Tudjman proclaimed the truce he struck with Federal Defense Minister Veljko Kadijevic a vic­tory for his republic. 
"The army finally saw that even with stronger forces, they could not break our resis­tance," Tudjman declared in a radio interview. 
.Federal warplanes and tanks have increasingly backed ethnic Serb rebels opposed to secession. A massive Yugoslav convoy of armored vehicles and troops rolled Into Croatia last week and launched its largest offensive. 
The cease-fire was announced a day after Croatia twice made offers to end a blockade of military garrisons if federal forces ended their fierce attacks. Croatian officials said the cease-fire was based on this deal. 
Tudjman on Sunday ordered a blockade of federal barracks in Croatia lifted, although he didn't mention withdrawing Croatian troops from around the barracks, said Vesna Skare, a spokeswoman for Tudjman. 
The week-long blockade cut ofT food, water and electricity to the federal soldiers and forced some to surrender. 
Kadijevic, in a statement re-
see.CROATIA I page 4 
I 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Wait! That goes there! 
NO juniors Greg Taddonio, Kevin Malloy, and Mike Tognarelli, members of the Sports Information student staff, ronsult on the layout of the 1991 Women's Soccer Media Guide. 


O'Meara: ND students need to question faith 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
A lack of questioning of the Catholic faith among Notre Dame students has been a detriment to the goals of Catholic education here, said Unive~sity Provost Timothy O'Meara in a lecture Friday. 
"I think what is missing at this university is that we aren't inspiring our young to partici­pate in intellectual activity be­cause they are Catholic," O'Meara said in his lecture ti­tled, ~'Notre Dame and Catholic Education in the U.S." Desire to find prosperous jobs is a motivation for most students, rather than desire to learn, he said. 
O'Meara emphasized the Im­portance of engaging In ques­tions of faith and society and integrating the kind of thought found in science, for example, into the Catholic faith. "We can't continue to keep ourselves in a cocoon," he said. Catholic education must be responsive to new challenges to maintain its Catholic identity, according to O'Meara. 
O'Meara said moral develop­ment of the young with emphasis on Catholic values has been the goal of Catholic education for the past 100 
see O'MEARA I page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Student safety is 
• 


an ongo1ng concern 
Since the Notre Dame------­student body returned to campus almost a month ago, all of the changes that the university has been making over the summer and are continuing to make are ~~>c becoming evident. Lisa Eaton 
First, there were the 

m u 1t i -d i r e c t i o n a l Managing Editor crosswalks across from the JACC. Then there were the Sesquicentennial logos on the endzones. And, of course, there is the ever changing state of development on the new DeBartolo Quad. 
One thing that has yet to change is the status of the call box on the Moreau Seminary side of Saint Joseph's lake. 
The casual lake walker has probably noticed that the only thing that is different about the call box is the amount of rust collecting on the chains that attach it to the pole with the nice red sign saying "EMERGENCY CALL BOX". 
The words "Out Of Service" have remained stuck there at least since school began and probably longer. 
The lakes on Notre Dame's campus are as much a part of the Notre Dame tradition as football, green plaid and the fight song. 
It is common knowledge, howeyer, that the lakes are one of the least safe areas of campus, even in the light of day. 
Last year, in an effort to increase student safety on campu!i, Notre Dame Security in­stalled a number of call boxes around the notoriously dangerous areas of campus. 
Security made great strides in the im­provement of the status of student safety at Notre Dame when they installed the call boxes last year. Students felt as if ND Security was being responsive to their concerns and that they were working to insure that Notre Dame was as safe as it could be. 
However, putting in the call boxes is not enough. THEY MUST BE KEPT IN WORKING ORDER. An out-of-order call box is of absolutely no use to anyone and, in fact, can instill a false sense of security in those stu­dents who do not know that the box is out of order. 
What can be done about this? First of all, Notre Dame Security can fix the call box. An obvious solution, maybe, but it is a start. 
Notre Dame Security needs to be aware of the status of its security equipment around campus and they have an obligation to keep it in working order. 
Secondly, Notre Dame students need to inform security of changes they want made and concerns they have about the way secu­rity issues are handled on this campus. 
Notre Dame Security claims that they were not aware that the call box was out of order. This means that the many students who regularly walk, jog, and bike around the lakes have not called and questioned security about why the call box is out of order and when it is going to be fiXed. 
Although Notre· Dame Security is there to protect the students as well as they can from harm. Ultimately, personal security is an issue with which each student must deal. 
As a student, you should have a vested interest in having the call boxes in working order. The next person who needs to use the "Out of Service" call box could be you, your roommate or one of your friends. 
Today's aff Production Business Lisa Bourdon Colleen Gannon Michelle Wood Colette LaForce 
Rich Riley Sports Rich Szabo Lab Tech 
Garr Schwartz News Peter Loftus Scoreboard Mary Murphy Jennifer Marten 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Woman murders abusive husband 
•sAN 
DIEGO,CA -A one-time socialite, Elisabeth Broderick faces a second murder trial on charges that could send her to prison for life. Broderick, 43, has admitted shooting her ex-husband and hi~ wife of eig~t months as they slept in their bed. Brodenck says she IS innocent because her ex-husband drove her to violence by harassing her during four years of divorce an_d custody fights. Broderick says her ex-husband used hts status as a millionaire lawyer to turn the legal system against her and deprive her of her home and cust~dy ?f their four children. Broderick faces 25 years to life m prison if convicted of first-degree murder. 

•wEST 
PALM BEACH, Fla. -Women who dehver co­caine-addicted babies shouldn't be charged with violating Florida's child-abuse statute, an appeals court has ruled. The ruling by the state 4th District Court of Appeal on Wednesday was closely watched by attorneys around Florida amid a debate over whether punishing or rehabilitating the mothers is best for their families_. But others predicted that addicted mothers would still be prosecuted under statutes outlawing possession and delivery of controlled substances. The decision upheld Circuit Judge Robert Carney's dismissal in Fort Laud­erdale of an aggravated child abuse charge against Cassandra Gethers, whose newborn daughter had co­caine in her blood in 1988. 


Billy preston requests rehabilitation 
•MALIBU, Ca -Soul singer Billy Preston asked a court's permission to join a drug rehabilitation program, postponing his arraignment on charges of cocaine 
OF INTEREST 

•The Community of Garing is looking for students ~ho would be willing to spend one hour per week working with junior high school students in a values-oriented self­esteem program. They will have an organizational meeting today at 4:30 pm at the CSC. They will be making trips to Clay Middle School on Tuesdays from 9­
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/September 20 
VOLUME IN SHARES 
NYS;~~EX 1it .18
210.71 MILLION S&P ~~POSITE 



it _
62 DOW JONFS INDUSTRIAlS 
3,021.91 ~ 2.46 
PRECIOUS METAlS GOLD • $.40 to $348.1Kl/oz. SILVER .. 1.4t to $4.066/oz. 
H L 
86 68 
76 54 
68 50 82 51 56 36 62 54 72 43 61 38 88 75 n 61 61 36 68 52 87 66 97 88 87 81 57 31 81 51 83 66 73 50 83 53 88 61 60 42 
65 58 
75 52 65 48 75 68 
54 

possession and exhibiting pornographic material to a minor. Preston, 45, was arrested Aug. 18 at his Malibu home after a 16-year-old boy told authorities Preston smoked cocaine, showed him sexually explicit photos and tried to assault him. The entertainer, whose hits include "Will It Go Round in Circles?" and "Nothing from Nothing," was charged with felony cocaine possession and two misdemeanor counts involving pornography and maltreatment of children. 
Recent bridegroom murdered 
•ARLINGTON, Tx-A bridegroom of just five days was killed trying to stop four teenagers from shoplifting jackets from a mall store. Michael Levey, 35, saw the alleged theft and confronted the teenagers by takin_g ~eys from the ignition of a car where they were s1_ttmg, investigators said. The youths locked themselves m the car, but Levey pounded on the windshield unti~ they threw out the clothing. When Levey bent over to p1ck up the items, he was shot, police said. He died two hours later in a hospital. The four suspects were held in custody today. 
INDIANA 

1 0-year-old youth charged with rape 
•EVANSVILLE, ln. -A 10-year-old Evansville boy has been charged with armed rape and intimidation in the alleged assault of a 48-year-old woman. The boy allegedly threatened to burn down the woman's house if she went to the police, authorities said. The assault allegedly occurred Sept. 3. The victim told police the ~oy was armed with a semiautomatic handgun, Bell satd. Juvenile authorities have said the boy apparently was carrying a BB gun. Armed rape, if committed by an adult, is a felony that carries a prison sentence of between 20 and 50 years. 
10:30 a.m. and on Fridays form 12:30-2 p.m. If you have any questions, call Jill Miller at 283-4910. 
IIWomen United for Justice and Peace will have an organizational meeting at 8 p.m. in the CSC. The film "Still Killing Us Softly" will be shown with a discussion to follow. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1642: Harvard College in Cambridge, Mass., held its first commencement. 

• 
In 1846: The planet Neptune was discovered by Gerl')'lan astronomer Johann Gottfried Galle. 

• 
In 1926: Gene Tunney scored a ten-round decision over Jack Dempsey to win the world heavyweight boxinr, title in Philadelphia. 

•In 
1938: A time capsule, to be opened in the year 6939, was buried on the grounds of the World's Fair in New York City. 

• 
In 1957: Nine black students who had entered Little Rock Central High School in Arkansas were forced to withdraw because of a white mob that had formed outside. 


The Observer 
Monday, September 23, 1991 page 3 

Call Crimestoppers! 
An Off-Campus Crime player runs with the ball Sunday, helpfng his team to a 14-0 victory over Dillon Hall in interhall football action. 
Club Column 
SEPTEMBER 23,1191 
1) All club officers are reminded to periodically check their dub mailboxes located direcrly outside of the Student Government office on the second Aoor of LaFortune. 
2) Management Club-Any interested student who misses the volleyball social and still wants to join the dub my do so. All members are reminded to pay their $5 dues. Contact Trey at 283-1060 with any questions. ' 
3) NVA asks all dubs and organizations to keep Friday, January 31 open due to Late Night Olympics. 
4) HAO will be having a meeting on Thursday, September 26 in 207 LaFortune at 7:30 pm. 
5) NO Council on International Business Development Marketing and Publicity Division will have its ~rst meeting Tuesday, September 24 at 7:00pm in the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune. Call Amy at 287­2654 with any questions. 
6) NO Student Pugwash is holding an informational meeting at 7:30pm on Tuesday, September 24 in the CSC Lounge. All those interested are encouraged to attend or call Brian at 283·1663. 
7) LULAC is planning a bene~! dinner for Projecto Madre on October 3. Anyone interested in helping to prepare fine Puerto Rican, Mexican, Spanish or Latin American cuisines should contact Jaime at 283-4085, Veronica at 283-4985, Pat at 283-4917, or Elaine at 283-4708. 
Panel calls for increased private sector involvement in education 
By JONATHAN HELWIG News Writer 
Increased and more focused involvement of the private sec­tor in America's education sys­tem is necessary if the quality of schooling is to improve, ac­cording to a panel of business­men on Friday at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 
The panel discussion was part of a Business Advisory Council colloquium, "The Challenge of Education: The Role of the Private Sector." Participants in the discussion were Robert Dilenschneider, president and CEO of the international relations firm Hill -and Knowlton, Inc.; J. Douglas Hol­laday, president of One-to-One Foundation; and John Brogan, chairman of the investment group Brogan Company. 
High school graduates do not have the basic skills to function in the workplace, 11ccording to James O'Rourke, an ND alum­nus who moderated the discus­sion. The U.S. outspends all industrial nations on education, yet is outperformed by most, he said. 
O'Rourke cited a recent apti­tude test on which above aver­age high school seniors finished behind students from industri­alized nations in biology and chemistry as an example of America's education problem. 
The problem must be faced on the most fundamental level through mentoring, according to Holladay. An example of this type of involvement is the One­to-One foundation, established in 1989. The foundation pairs businessmen in Washington, 
D.C. with inner-city children to provide guidance, support, and to help solve urban problems. 
"Companies are beginning to understand they have a com­mitment to young people of this country," he said. 
Although thousands of U.S. leaders and corporations are donating money to fight the ed­ucation problem, Dilenschnei­der said the drive for improve­ment is unfocused. 
A recent survey of 400 All­State insurance companies showed that money was dis­persed between high schools, elementary schools, and private programs. "There is no focus," Dilenschneider said, "companies give to too many causes without focusing in on a single area." 
The education of each Ameri­can child ultimately depends upon the commitment of par­ents, teachers, and local com­munities, according to Brogan. Citizens must get involved if America's schools are to im­prove. 

"No matter how much state and federal money is given, it comes down to you and me," he said. 
Duke's business dean: U.S. students must confront globalization of market 
By CHRISSY HALL 
News Writer 
The three most important is­sues American business stu­dents must confront are the current general environment of the business world, the global­ization of today's markets, and the partnerships between stu­dents, the colleges they attend, and the companies they will soon work for, said Tom Keller, dean of Duke University's Fuqua School of Business, in a lecture Friday. 
A major factor underlying the attitude of the general business environment is the ranking of American business schools, said Keller. 
"More people in the last year bought the the issue of Business Week that ranked business schools than Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit Issue," said Keller. Graduate programs strive for those top ten positions, attempting to attract the best students from both under­graduate programs and com­panies who wish to send their working executives hack to school. 
At the core of modern busi­ness issues is the globalization of international markets, said Keller. 
American students need to become better acquainted with the cultures and the rules of other competing countries, he said. Even if an American business person does not wish to explore the markets of other countries, that person must be prepared. for foreign competi­tors pursuing the American market. 
Global competition means that Americans must find wa,ys to maintain an advantage over foreign counterparts, said Keller. This would include learning the cultures of compet­ing countries and developing better technology. 
Another important step in meeting the challenges of the business community is estab­lishing good partnerships be­tween corporations, consumers, and the academic world, according to Keller. 
In order to succeed in today's market, Americans must de­velop stronger partnerships and rise to meet the requirements of the new partners, said Keller. For example, students want substantive and support­ive education. In turn, the fac­ulty expects motivation, com­mitment, and responsibility from the students. 
Businesses want intelligent and motivated graduates, while the businesses themselves are expected to hire those students, put their executives through school, and provide financial support for academic institu­tions. 
Following Dean Keller's pre­sentation was a follow-up speech made by Jack Keane, dean of Notre Dame's Business School. He expounded upon Keller's opinions and discussed what Notre Dame's Business School is doing to prepare Its students for the outside world. 
Keane mentioned the progress being made on the new business building. Recently the Business Department obtained ihe permission to add a 5,000 square foot auditorium. Construction of the new build­ing will begin immediately fol­lowing the construction of the Performing Arts building. 
The Business School was also recently endowed with $500,000, which will go to an investment fund that is to be used by students, said Keane. The fund will help students be­come more familiar with the stock market by allowing them to actually invest money. Keane also stated that the last academic year was the best year Notre Dame had for hiring professors. 
In response to the constant expansion of the International market, Notre Dame has been working on creating more in­ternational exchanges. Notre Dame's Australia program is developing very well. There has also been discussion regarding the posslbiiity of having a program in Ireland. There is an MBA program in London, currently enrolling thirty-two students. 
Recently published Is the ftrst book on Notre Dame's School of Business called "O'Hara's Heir 1921-1991." 
Keller's and Keane's lectures were part of the colloquium "A Challenge to Education," spon­sored by the College of Business Administration. 
NO COUNCIL ON INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT MARKETING AND PUBLICITY DIVISION FIRST MEETING OF THE YEAR TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 7:00P.M. MONTGOMERY THEATER (in LaFortune) 
Questions? Call Amy at 287-2654 

page4 The Observer Monday, September 23, 1991 
U.S. to cut its own defense Answering a question from ence will break down into bilat­Bradley does not plan to run budget, said Bradley. the audience, Bradley called eral discussions. "The process for president in the next elec­
Bradley 

"In dollar figures, it would be loan guarantees to Israel, in­is important, but it will be long tion, he said. He indicated that 
continued from page 1 
he said. 
"Public spending should be primarily on those things that will enhance our future, not merely gratify our present de­sires," said Bradley. He added a long list of domestic pro­grams that he felt are no longer needed. 
Future reduction the Soviet Union's defense budget, which pending economic reform makes inevitable, will allow the relatively easy to cut $80-$90 billion from defense without af­fecting our flexibility to fight on two fronts,". said Bradley. "We now spend $150 billion preparing for the USSR to in­vade Europe by land and that is just not going to happen." 

Yet, Bradley warned that democracy is far from guaran­teed· in the Soviet Union. Even with large cuts in defense spending, the U.S. would still retain its ability to fight, he said. 
tended to fund increased hous­ing for immigrant Jews, a moral issue. The loans are "a small cost for a pressing problem," he said. 
The Bush administration has said that it will support their loan guarantees, but not im­mediately, for tactical reasons related to the upcoming Middle East peace conference, Bradley said. 
Bradley also predicted that the Arab-Israeli peace confer-and torcherous," he said. 
Domestic race-related issues were also addressed by Bradley, who said that they are issues of self-interest and values. Most people put racial issues in terms of liberal or conservative, he explained. 
"We cannot compete in the world with an increasing un­skilled labor force," said Bradley. "If we are going to lead by example, we can't lead with race politics," he added. 
he might consider it someday, however. 
"I have just been through a tough election which had a sobering impact on me," he said. "I am learning to trust my intuitions, letting what is inside of me come out." 
This means that he will now talk about both what he knows and what he feels, said Bradley. He will do this at the risk of er­ror, even if it means taking an opposing position to his party on an issue, he said. 
Croatia 
continued from page 1 
leased by the Yugoslav news agency Tanjug, said an agree­ment had been reached for "an absolute cease-fire." It said he would order all his forces in Croatia to "cease all attacks and movements." 
Authorities said the truce agreement was reached Sunday morning. 
• But there was no talk of it needing approval from the eight-man federal presidency, nominally the commander of the armed forces. The presi-
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
Council was scheduled to hold informal discussions Monday morning on the issue. 
Under terms of the Gulf War cease-fire, the Security Council is demanding unhindered overflights by the inspectors as 11 mo;onc;: nf t,letecting and de­
stroymg Iraq s ballistic, nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons stocks. 
Independent helicopter flights would allow for surprise in­spections and avoid dependence on Iraqi aircraft 
O'Meara 
continued from page 1 
years. Now, he explained, Catholic education must evolve so that "it is not viewed as restoration of the past but responsive to new challenges." 
He quoted Father Michael Buckley, professor of Theology at Notre Dame, who said, "As Catholics, we have to be con­cerned with cosmology," in order to meet new challenges. 
O'Meara emphasized the role of a Catholic faculty in main­taining the Catholic character of the university. While he ac­knowledged the significant con­tributions of non-Catholic fac­ulty members, he said, "If we ignore Catholicism in hiring faculty, we won't have a Catholic university in 25 years." 
In response to questions about whether Notre Dame has become somewhat less of a "Catholic" university in recent years, O'Meara said that soci­ety as a whole is changing. 
He said that Notre Dame is still very much a Catholic uni­versity and cited the opening mass of the Sesquicentennial year as an example. He con­cluded that the challenge lies in defming Catholicism in today's society. 
O'Meara's lecture was part of the Friday Forum lecture series at the Center for Social Concerns. 

dency, led by Stipe Mesic, has been virtually paralyzed for months. 
Mesic, a Croat, appeared to approve of the truce Sunday, telling reporters that "International pressure con­tributed to bringing the military back to its senses." 
Numerous cease-fires in Croatia have been cobbled to­gether, mostly through efforts by the European Community. All so far have failed, and Croatia has lost about a third of its territory to the ethnic Serbian forces. 
Serbia, the largest republic, seeks a centralized government, while Western-leaning Croatia 
and pilots, as well as unannounced delays. 
The Iraqi envoy, Hussein, told reporters after the meeting that Baghdad reaffirmed its "policy of cooperation with in­ternational organizations, par­ticularly the Security Council." 
But he added, "We start from the premise of full cooperation as well as the premise that Iraq is responsible for its own sovereignty and national secu­ritv." 
He spoke in Arabic and his remarks were translated into English by Iraq's U.N. ambas­sador, Abdul Amir al-Anbari. 
The United Nations has ac­cused Iraq several times of failing to cooperate with its and Slovenia seceded after they failed in efforts to turn the country into a looser federation. 
It was unclear, meanwhile, whether the latest cease-fire would hold. 
Kadijevic sent a letter to Tudjman listing 11 alleged truce violations, including mortar attacks on barracks in the strategically important Croatian towns of Vukovar and Vinkovci. 
He also cited an attack on a barracks in Sibenik. 
Tanjug quoted the Air Force command as accusing Croatian forces of firing on an unarmed helicopter ferrying wounded two hours after the deadline. It 
search for long-range missiles and weapons of mass destruc­tion, which is being carried out under terms of the Gulf War cease-fire. 
U.N. officials have complained that the Iraqis have reported fewer missiles and chemical warheads than inspectors found. Teams also reported finding nuclear processing equipment the Iraqis denied having. 
1'hree German heYicopters are in Turkey ready for use by U.N. teams in Iraq. But diplomats said Germany was unlikely to allow their use if allied military aircraft escorted them, because It wanted to avoid hostile situa­tions. 

said a crewman was wounded but the chopper landed safely. 
The federal army has called its recent attacks an effort to separate the warring parties and end the blockade of federal barracks. But Croatian officials and some Western diplomats say the federal attacks are aimed at gaining control over eastern Croatia, dominated by ethnic Serbs. 
The army announced Saturday that General Milan Aksentijevic, deputy comman­der for an army district cover­ing Slovenia and most of Croatia, has been on a hunger strike for four days to protest his treatment by Croatian cap­tors. 
He and other army officers were captured about a week ago after a federal helicopter was forced to land outside Zagreb. 
In earlier fighting Sunday, federal jets attacked a radar station outside Zagreb just be­fore the cease-fire took effect. Croatian media also said a child was killed and several people wounded in an air attack on the Adriatic coastal city of Karlobag after the truce deadline. 
Other fighting was reported before the truce Sunday in the eastern Croat stronghold of Osijek and in the village of Tovarnik, near Vukovar, and the nearby village of Bogdanovci. 

RACQUETBALL SINGLES IHMEN IHWOMEN GRAD/FACMEN GRAD/F AC ·woMEN 
CO-REC INNER TUBE WA TERPOLO 
CAMPUS ULTIMATE FRISBEE 
DEADLINE -OCTOBER 2 
IMMIGRATION SEMINAR FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS AND YOUNG PROFESSIONALS 
by the Law Firm of RUND & WUNSCH 
Saturday, September 28, 1991 10:00 A.M. to 1:00 P.M. First Floor Auditorium Hesburgh Library University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Speakers: Topics: 
Temporary Worker Visas Robert W. Rund Employment-Based Immigration Cynthia R. Schiesswohl Political Asylum Issues Dingfa Uu Income Taxation Issues for International 
students and other Nonresidents 
Special Emphasis on 
IMMIGRATION ACT OF 1990 
"New Opportunities for The Professional" 
NO ADMISSION CHARGE 
Monday, September 23, 1991 The Observer page 5 
Pepsichangesitslogo; new design is 'youthful' 

NEW YORK (AP) -Pepsi­Cola is changing its familiar red, white and blue logo, the company announced Sunday. 
The new-look cans and bot­tles of Pepsi and Diet Pepsi should start turning up in stores nationwide by the end of the year and in global markets throughout 1992, Pepsi officials said. 
Out is the swirl logo featuring a wide red horizontal bar topped by a red and blue circu­lar design with the word "Pepsi" in blue in the middle. 
In is a a much narrower red bar topped by a smaller version of the old logo, minus the brand name in the middle. On cans, the word "Pepsi" is written sideways and vertically in Italic capital typeface. On bottles, the red bar is horizontal and the word "Pepsi" can be easily read without turning the soda sideways. 
"Consumer research shows that the new logo design looks more youthful, more refresh­ing, and that is has twice the shelf impact compared to the competition," said Craig Weatherup, president of Pepsi­Cola North America. He said the change has been in the works for four years. 
The new design for Diet Pepsi closely resembles the new de­sign for Pepsi, but with more white and less red. The change is meant to more closely link the sister products, Weatherup said. 
It's the first permanent change in Pepsi's logo since 1973 and the eighth this cen­tury. 
The change comes as Pepsi trails Coca-Cola in overall do­mestic market share by 43 per­cent to 31 percent, said indus­try analyst Jesse Myers, pub­lisher of the magazine Beverage Digest. 
A Coca-Cola spokesman re­acted by saying surveys show their product has the most fa­miliar trademark in the world. 
"When your competition has the best-known logo, change becomes a way of life. But a Pepsi with a new logo is still just a Pepsi," said spokesman Randy Donaldson. 
Myers called the new Pepsi logo "very contemporary." 
"The cola wars are a continu­ing battle and the last bastion is the package. Soft-drink bottlers decide what goes on the shelf and the consumers decide what comes off it. Packaging Is an important part of that," he said. 
Pepsi's new logo will be In­corporated throughout the company, from packaging to the flag that flies outside the company's headquarters in Somers, N.Y., about 35 miles north of New York City. 


.--------------------~----------~----~---------~---~----------~-­
The Observer

page 6 Monday, September 23, 1991 
Georgian opposition occupies government TV station 
MOSCOW -Renegade troops and armed opponents of Georgian President Zviad Gamsakhurdia seized a gov­ernment broadcast station Sunday in a widening conflict one opposition figure called "close to civil war." 
Later Sunday, Gamsakhurdia reportedly met with a parlia­mentary opposition leader in the Georgian capital of Tbilisi in an effort to end the crisis that has left at least 41 people injured. 
But no agreement was re­ported, and Gamsakhurdia kept up appeals over a clandestine TV channel for supporters to defend him against "the pseudo-opposition that is preparing an attack on parlia­ment and the legally elected government," the Georgian mission in Moscow reported. 
Critics have called repeatedly for Gamsakhurdia to resign, and opposition leaders who seized the government radio and TV center were demanding 

Billy Graham addresses New Yorkers 
NEW YORK -An estimated 250,000 people attended evan­gelist Billy Graham's first New York City crusade in 21 years on Sunday. The man known as America's preacher said the city is "in desperate spiritual need." 
Graham's spokesman said the throng in Central park was the largest cr{lwd ever to attend one of his crusades in North America. 
"Everybody I taik to, it seems, agrees that New York is the loneliest place in the world,"· Graham said in his sermon. 
"People get increasingly irri­table and pushy in their effort to guard their own turf. There's little space for others let alone God. To be without God in New York is to be terribly lonely." 
Graham called New York "the capital of the world" because of its ethnic diversity and its 
Engineer Industry Day planned 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
News Writer 
Over thirty companies, including Boeing, Exxon, and IBM, will be on hand to offer advice and possibly internships and job interviews to prospective engineering majors at the 11th annual Engineer Industry Day, according to Beth Brandes, vice president of the Society of Women Engineers. 
The career fair is scheduled for Sept. 25 from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m. on the first and second floors of the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering, Brandes said. The companies are eager to meet future engineers, and often these opportunities turn into internships and lead to inter­views. 
For students, Brandes said, this is a prime chance to ex­plore companies and actually talk to their representatives face to face. Those attending are encouraged to bring along resumes if they have them, but it is not necessary. 
This event is co-sponsored by the Society of Women Engineers and the Joint Engineer Counsel. 

importance in such fields as jected to but "has unending business and the arts. "But with confidence in the depth of faith all of this overload of vitality of the people of New York." and variety ... New York City is Graham spokesman Larry a place in desperate spiritual Ross said the evangelist's re­need," he said to applause. marks were written after a "It's cold," agreed a spectator, week of meetings with religious Cathy Elia, 30, of suburban leaders around the city. Verona, N.J. "You don't say Ross and a police official who llo to anybody. They don't say hespoke only on condition of hello to you. If you go up to anonymity estimated the crowd someone, they say,_ 'What do at 250,000. Ross said the you want?"' largest previous crowd for a "People get scared," said her Graham sermon in North friend, Steven Van Dunk, 27. America was 134,000 at the Los "They're just trying to survive. I Angeles Coliseum in 1963. think he did a good job of The largest crowd Graham putting it in a nutshell." ever addressed was 1.1 million Mayor David Dinkins, who in Seoul, South Korea, in 1984. briefly addressed the crowd, More than three decades ago, had no direct response to Gra­Graham established himself as ham's description. America's premier preacher by Spokeswoman Jennifer Kimball holding a 16-week run of cru­said Dinkins is aware of the sades at New York's Madison stresses New Yorkers are sub-Garden.  
Happy Birthday Ste  
ou've almost shed  
..,,.eeJJJn'a your ~,,-to the top·2J. the sextet + 1 Lewis girl  
~ GYROS ~ Grand Opening Specials are: V Gyro Sandwich .........•............•.........•......•...... $2.75 1/4 Pound Cheeseburger .......•....••...•........... $0.99 2 Chicago Style Hot Dogs w/ Fries ............. $1.99 1/2 Barbecue Chicken Dinner ..•...........•....•. $3.49 R"b r o·1 1p •nner ....................••...•..........•......... $4.75 21 Shrimp Dinner .....................•......•..•......... $3.79 (all Dinners include french fries, cole slaw and garlic bread) Show Student ID and get a free 16 oz. drink with your urchase. Expiration date for the drink is September 29t  
: : : : : : : : : : N'.ew1ocatian:is now open : : : : : : : : : : : ~~ P~x~~ W~Y. ~Q~~ ~QS~~~4 ;N:e~t:tc? ~9~~~ay ~tin:27~-Q69~ · · · · · · · · · Dining, Carry-out,·Drive~Thru · · · · · · · · · : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :HoW.S: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :M«?n~'fh:urs:tJ:(XHt;op: ~rl-$~tJ.l:Q0:-1;2:PQ : $U:n:tJ:9Q-1;0;<)9:  

Save a tree. Recycle this newspaper. 

air time. 
But power to the building was cut Sunday, and Prime Minister Bessarion Gugushvili told the Russian government news agency that Gamsakhurdia "cannot satisfy the illegal de­mands being presented to him." 
Gamsakhurdia is accused of adopting dictatorial tendencies since his landslide victory last summer as Georgia's first elected president. But his many supporters admire his forceful style and strong push for inde­pendence for their multi-ethnic republic of 5.5 million people. 
The opposition drive began mounting after government troops shot and wounded five protesters in a clash Sept. 2. Gamsakhurdia denies giving an order to shoot and said one policeman has already been de­tained in an investigation. 
One anti-government demon­strator, identified in reports as a 3 7 -year-old medical student, died on Sunday, a day after set­ting himself on fire. 
" 'If Georgia needs a victim to stop the bloodshed, I am ready am ready to sacrifice myself,' " the man was quoted as saying by a local journalist. 

The state news agency Tass said 41 people had been hospi­talized as of Sunday, nearly all of them hunger strikers who were beaten Saturday by police in front of the president's office in Government House. 
Late Saturday, more than 10,000 people swarmed down Rustaveli Avenue toward the president's office shouting for the president's resignation. Smaller groups of Gamsakhurdia supporters ral­lied in Gamsakhurdia's defense. 
Former Georgian Prime Minister Tengiz Sequa, a lead­ing figure in the anti-govern­ment movement, first entered the radio and TV center with about 200 protesters early Sunday, government spokeswoman Khatia Jinjikhadze said. 
They were later joined by members of the Georgian 
National Guard, commanded by Gen. Tenghiz Kitovani. The general, who broke with Gamsakhurdia after last month's Kremlin coup, has vowed to stop government troops from attacking civilians. He claims the loyalty of 600 to 800 armed troops. 
Pro-and anti-Gamsakhurdia vigils continued during the standoff on Sunday, the most tense outbreak in the republic since the failed hard-line coup unleashed nationalist passions around the country. 
Opposition activists reportedly were handing out weapons and gas masks to supporters inside the media center, which was rife with rumors of a pending attack by Gamsakhurdia backers. 
Tass correspondents reported seeing anti-government activists streaming toward the television building, carrying hunting rifles. 
With power to the media cen­ter cut Sunday, activists inside and out were seen carrying candles and flashlights as darkness fell, Tass reported. 
Lawmaker Merab Uridiye, among those occupying the TV building, told Tass that the op­position was trying to "coordinate its joint actions in the situation that's ... close to civil war." 
He did not elaborate, but leaders from several opposition parties were meeting Sunday in the television building to dis­cuss strategy, Tass and local reporters said. 
Tedor Paatashvili, an opposi­tion leader in Parliament, re­portedly went to the broadcast­ing studios after meeting with Gamsakhurdia, Tass reported, adding that he did not disclose details of those talks. 
Uridiye said the opposition is demanding Gamsakhurdia al­low live television broadcasts of Georgia's parliament, which has been unable to hold a session since Sept. 2 without breaking apart. 

•Glasses 
in l-3hours...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designereyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 


aC6lB. IJQtiCO
Ona 
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  (1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  

Monday, September 23,1991 The Observer page7 
Hostage mother delivers during siege 
SALT LAKE CITY-A first­time mother said Sunday she tried to delay giving birth until after an agitated gunman car­rying 18 pounds of dynamite gave up his siege of the hospi­tal's maternity wing. 
But Christian Downey, 22, delivered her baby during the 18-hour standoff Saturday. Her new daughter became the ninth hostage by Richard Worthington, who had shot dead a nurse when he stormed the Women's Health Center at Alta View Hospital in Sandy, 15 miles south of Salt Lake City. 
"She was almost born, but I managed to prolong it for about four hours," Downey said at a news conference at another hospital. With her was the baby's father, Adam Cisneros, 20, who also was held captive. 
Worthington, 39, released his hostages unharmed and sur­mndered late Saturday. He was being held Sunday. 
He had stormed the health center apparently looking to kill a doctor who he said had operated on his wife two years ago without his permission. 
Worthington had carried a .357-caliber handgun and a shotgun, police said. He also had a "fairly sophisticated" 18­pound dynamite bomb, said federal Alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms agent John Minichino. 
Margie Wyler, 37, a nurse with 17 years experience and 12 children of her own who helped deliver Downey's baby, said the mother-to-be had been ready to give birth since the ordeal began shortly after mid­night Saturday. 
But "She thought the child was safer inside of her," Wyler said. 
Wyler and nurse Susan Woolley helped Downey give birth on the floor of what Worthington said was a booby­trapped doctor's office. 
Outside, Worthington paced the hall, occasionally peeking inside the office. He'd told the hostages that if they opened the door, they would be blown up. 
"It was very important that this be a non-complicated deliv­ery," Wyler said from her home Sunday. The mother-to-be had been given an injection to deaden the pain, and was com­fortable throughout the deliv­ery, Wyler said. 
Downey's 7-pound, 1-ounce daughter, Caitlin, was born on blankets spread on the floor because a gurney wouldn't fit into the suite of offices. 
Downey, cradling Caitlin, 
thanked the two hostage nurses and her 19-year-old sister, Carre Downey, for keeping Worthington calm. 
Wyler, credited by many as having persuaded Worthington to surrender, said the man was despondent at the end of the ordeal after talking to one of his young children. 
"He got off the phone and said, 'Margie, do you want to walk out of here?'" Wyler said by telephone interview from her home in Salt Lake City. "And I says, 'Yeah, I do.~ 
Worthington then asked a bizarre favor. 
"He said, 'I want you to cut ofT my finger and take it to Karen,' his wife," Wyler said. "I said, 'I don't know if I can cut that finger off,' and he said, 'bh hell, let's just get out of here."' 
Minutes later, after calling police, he gave Wyler the gun. 
"I ran, and he ran the other way and the cops tackled him," she said. 
Some of the other hostages, she said, were angry that police didn't let Worthington see his wife before hustling him away. 
The hostages included the Downey, Cisneros and their child, two family friends, the two nurses and two other in­fants. 
Playboy on menu at Berkeley protest 
BERKELEY, Calif. -In a city where the 1960's have never really gone away, the right to read Playboy was on the protest menu Sunday with a read-iri at a diner where a pa­tron last month was told to fold it or go. 
About 100 people milled out­side Bette's Ocean View Diner, the crowd evenly split between fans and foes of the magazine. 
Some held copies shipped by Playboy for the event and spoke of the First Amendment. Others chanted anti­pornography slogans, mostly unprintable. 
"As long as the literature is legal I believe a patron has ev­ery right to read whatever he or she wishes in a public place free from coercion and embar­rassment," said journalist Bill Redican, a Bette's customer who organized the read-in. 
Last month, customer Mike Hughes, a free-lance writer, pulled out a Playboy at the diner and was asked by a wait­ress to put the magazine away or move. 
The spat went public after Hughes called San Francisco Chronicle columnist Herb Caen and Redican, who gave a brief speech Sunday. Hughes did not attend. 
The waitress, who attended the counterprotest, said: "I think pornography is offensive, and I feel pornography in my work place is sexual harass­ment." She would be identified only as Barbara. 
But restaurant owner Bette Kroening said: "I believe in the freedom of the right to read." In the future, if waitresses feel offended by customers' read­ing material, they will ask the manager to wait on that table, she said. 
A few police officers were on hand and waitresses circulated trays of free mini-pancakes and scones. Customers munched Sunday brunches while the protest went on outside. 
"Pornography subjugates women by Its very existence. It's not a question of what someone is reading," said protester Maude Gunn, 26, who dressed as a waitress to make her stand. 

For Those Interested In Law School: 
The Law Caravan is here on Wednesday, September 25th. 

Stop by Stepan Center from 10:30 
am to 2:30 pm and meet with representatives from approximate 50 Law Schools. 
You may not know our name, but wf!!ve been a cornerstone of America for more than 125 years. 
Wt· woui<Jn'l he: a hil surprised if you didn'l recognize our company name-Cargill. But we've been in husinc:ss since: 1865. hc:lping America's farmers feed the world. Wc:'rt· a company huill on lalentc:d people. Our particular skills include marketing, handling ;md procc:ssing hulk commodilies; risk managemc:nt; str.ttcgic capital investment; and taking an innova­
livc: approach lo gc:ner.tling cosl efficiencies. 
We: apply lhosc: skills 10 a broad r.tnge of businesses. Today, Cargill handles commodities as diverse as scr.tp me1al and molasses, orange: juice: and ocean freighl, collon and ferlilizer, and wheat and precious metals. Ouropemtions vary from flour mills to futures trading, from meat-packingplants 10 mining sail, and from s1eel mills lo selling seed. Cargill, its subsidiaries and affilia1es employ more than 55,000 people worldwide. 
Entry-level opportunilies are available in accounting, commodity merchandising, engineer­ing, induslrial sales, informalion systems, country elevator and plant operations managemenl, Feed, Molasses Liquid Producls, Seed, and Worldwide Poullry Opemtions. 
If you're ready to join a company thai offers a lradition of excellence, ideas and innovation, hones1y and integrity, meeting 1he needs of international customers, and growth and success, lhen make Cargill your career choice. 
Recruilment dales are as follows: 
October 7, 1991-Accounting 
Conuct your pl~l·ement offil"e for further information. Cai'Jiitl is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer M/F/H/V. Students with disabilities are encouraged to apply. 
ONLY YOU 
CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES. 



j;CA-MPUS GOLF,i 
2 PERSON SCRAMBLE 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 TEE TIMES STARTING AT 11:00 AM AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S DIVISIONS 
SIGN UP AS INDIVIDUALS OR IN PAIRS. PAIRS MUST HAVEONE PLAYER OVER 90 
FEES DUE WITH ENTRY $4.50 FOR STUDENTS 57.00 FOR FACULTY AND STAFF 
REGISTER AT THE GOLF SHOP (ROCKNE) DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 25 


Business 
page 8 Monday, September 23, 1991 
Student delegation finds 'a different world' in Poland 
B y COLLEEN GANNON member and NDCIBD president, tosh computer than the State the spirit of the Polish people economy," stated Kozachok. Business Editor observed a difference in Coal Agency has in controlling would allow them to do that," The CDC can aid them in ac­technology. the lives of a thousand men he concluded. quiring this knowledge, he said. 
It's a different world, discov­The delegation visited the mining coal, Nappo said. The delegation's third mem­The CDC is currently looking to ered· Saint Mary's senior Chris­State Coal Agency and observed Nappo also observed differ­ber, ND senior Steve Kozachok, begin a program that goes to tine Reinhardt on her recent the control facility which ences in the two countries' urged students to aspire to be Poland and offers consulting trip to Poland as a member of controls gases in the mine that banking and fmancial systems. citizens of the world. The first sessions that include account­the 1991 ND Council on could be potentially hazardous. For example, Polish bankers commandment of a good citizen ing, marketing and production International Business De­The control facility included determine the risks of loans by of the world would be to lend processes. They also will try to velopment (NDCIBD) delegation. eight television screens at­assigning each applicant with a thy neighbor in need a helping establish a student exchange 
Reinhardt observed a distinct tached to an outdated console, number between one and five, hand, said Kozachok, chairper­program. difference in the treatment of according to Nappo. "You with five denoting the riskiest son of the Citizen Democracy The CDC plans to send stu­women in Poland. In Poland, couldn't believe something like loan. Core (CDC). dents to Poland next summer to capitalism provides "an oppor­this was in operation and This is a very simple method "Poland is this neighbor and teach English, "because we feel tunity to both women and men working," he said. and Poland definitely needs we are in a position to lend a that English is going to be rise to the top," she said. "The strangest part about it Western guidance, he added. helping hand," he said. essential for people to compete "Anyone who offers some kind was the pride in which they Despite a lack of technology, "These people through no in a global market," he said. of intelligence or special skills showed it to us," stated Nappo, Nappo has a positive outlook fault of their own have been "Through these programs, we will fmd themselves in a profes­observing that the equipment towards Poland's future. "If deprived of Western business at the CDC believe that we can sion," she added. appeared 20 to 25 years old. any group of people in any techniques and knowledge of lend a helping hand and in do­
In addition to differences in A Notre Dame student prob­country would be able to suc­these techniques which are ing so, we can become those the treatment of females, ND ably has more power at his/her ceed and surmount the obsta­essential if they are to succeed good citizens of the world," senior Jim Nappo, a delegation fmgertips working on a Macin-cles before them, I really think in a more and more global concluded Kozachok. 
Tax faculty ranks in published research 
Special to the Observer and Virginia Polytechnic and Department of Accountancy
The University of Notre State University. who have balanced their Dame's tax faculty ranks among A tax faculty's publication research, teaching and service the most prolific in the nation 
record is essential to an obligations in an exceptionalwhen it comes to published assessment of a tax program's manner. All of these professorsresearch, according to a recent quality, according to the study's have won teaching and study released by the Journal of authors. Notre Dame's tax fac­research awards within the 
the American Taxation ulty distinguish themselves in University," stated Williamson. Association. the classroom and community The tax faculty in the College
The study examined publica­as well as in the fields of re­of Business Administration in­tion records of tax accounting search and publication. clude the following professorsfaculties from 1981 to 1988. 
"Balance is something you of accountancy: Beth Kern,Notre Dame was one of only would expect from a group of Kenneth Milani, Kevin 
four universities ranking in the accountants," says Robert Misiewicz, Michael Morris, Raytop ten of both the total tax Williamson, associate dean of Powell and James Wittenbach. publications category and the Notre Dame's College of Busi­Kern, Milani, Morris and Wit­total academic tax publications ness Administration. 
tenbach have been honored by

Notre Dame's tax faculty ranks high in published research and includes category. The others included 
"It's something that has been Notre Dame for their teaching.
James Wittenbach(left), Ray Powell, Kevin Misiewicz, Beth Kern, the University of Texas at 
displayed by an outstanding Misiewicz and Powell received
Michael Morris, and Kenneth Milani. Austin, Texas A & M ·University, 
group of tax faculty in our university service awards. 




HEY FIGHTING IRISH 
Look Who's Got The 
Best Deals On Campus! STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $699
ONE TOPPING 
ADDITIONAL

PIZZA SECOND PIZZA 
TOPPINGS

$4 MORE! 
AVAILABLE 

LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE 
TWO SMALL 
PEPPERONI 
ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS

PIZZAS 
AVAILABLE 

OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY. LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
271-0300 289-0033 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 


Viewpoint 
Monday, September 23, 1991 
P.O..Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill M•n•glng Editor Busln-M•n•ger Usa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
N-• Editor ••••••••••••••••••••••.Monica Yant Adverllalng M•neger ..... .Julie Sheridan VI-point Editor.....••..•••.••...Joe Moody Ad O..lgn M•n•g•r........ Alissa Murphy Sport• Editor ••••••.........David Oieteman ·Production M•n•g•r........... .Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ................... .John O'Brien Syatama M•n•g•r................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •.......... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ••••••••••••••••••...Dan Shinnick S.lnt M•ry'• Editor ............ Emily Willett Controllar••••••••..••••.••••.•Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reHect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columr. present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL 
ND/SMC relations hampered by myths 
A debate is brewing on the campuses over the rela­tionship between Saint Mary's College and Notre Dame. Students at both schools are once again questioning the role each institution plays with the other. 
As most in the community would agree, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's r.elations are far from ideal. While there are a great number of students on both campuseswho see each school as having its own advantages, school bashing has become a popular pastime here. 
A myth persists that Saint Mary's, a small liberal arts college, must forever be viewed as a second-class institution when compared to Notre Dame, the large university across the street. 
Those who perpetuate this myth do not realize that Saint Mary's College is a quality institution with dis­tinctions of its own. 
Some say that this myth is the fault of Notre Dame students who believe that Saint Mary's women use the University to make up for athletic, social and academic inadequacies at the College. 
If those with negative attitudes bothered to spend time at the College, they would see quality athletic/rograms, cultural events and stimulating courses an lectures. They would realize that Saint Mary's offers so much more than just a quiet library and additional theology courses. 
The sad fact is that this myth can also be traced back to Saint Mary's itself. Strict VISitation and alcohol policies cramp o~-campus social opportunities. While athletic teams perform quite well, one rarel)' hears of their endeavors as contests are not well publicized on either campus. Finally, except for Moreau Center events, Saint Mary's does not do a good job of promoting lecture series and other academic events. • 
This week, The Observer Editorial Board will examine the issue of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's relations. While Saint Mary's College has a lot to offer the community, we will show that it needs to promote itself better. In addition, we hope to convince Notre Dame students who look down at the Colle6e that they should take another look. In the case of Samt Mary's, smaller does not mean inferior. 
DOONESBUR._:_:Y:.....____....., 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Thanks to anniversary Mass planners 
Dear Editor: hours of prepartlon and liturgical celebration such a 
Thanks to a great deal of commitment several hundred beautiful experience; and to. Mr. planning and hard work by people volunteered to make the Dave Prentkowski of Food several hundred members of Mass and picnic all that a once­Services, who handled the the Notre Dame Family, the in-150-years celebration of this gargantuan task of feeding Sesquicentennial Year is off to a University should be. 12,00 hungry people in not great start. The students, staff On behalf of all of us who much more than an hour. and faculty members who were rewarded by the results of 0 pp ortunities-academic, devoted their efforts to their efforts, we want to thank cultural, and social-,abound to preparing the liturgy for the those who made the participate in this special year. opening Mass and to providing ceremonies possible. We encourage all members of food and entertainment for Special thanks go to Ms. the Notre Dame Community to approximately 12,000 of us Angie Chamblee of Freshman take advantage of those should be very proud of what Year, whose committee opportunities and be part of the they accomplished. supervised preparations for the Sesquicentennial celebration. 
The Sesquicentennial Opening Mass and picnic; to Fr. Peter The Committee on the Ceremonies were conducted so Roccca of Student Affairs, who Sesquicentennial of the smoothly that the entire was responsible for University celebration seemed natural and coordinating the efforts of Roger A. Schmitz, Chair almost spontaneous. That choris, dancers, the many Douglass R. Hemphill, effect is certainly a credit to the others who worked to make the Executive Director 
Quote of the day disappoints reader ... 
Dear Editor: possible that The Observer is so certain individuals? It is em­
The Quote of the Day in the ignorant that it did not realize barrassing that such trash Is September 17 issue of the Ob­the insensitivity of that state­printed in the paper that repre­server ( "If homosexuality were ment? sents our university, which the normal way, then God claims to be an enlightened in­would have created Adam and Either case is inexcusable. stitution. Bruce.") was shocking and Isn't DuLac's new harassment Tim Hemstreet disappointing. Was this an in­policy is intended to curb just Stanford Hall tentional barb. or Is it. R.r.tuallv this sort of attack aimed at Sept. 19, 1991 
...makes another reader's 'jaw fall to floor' in shock 
Dear Editor: After numerous readings of ance., If even one person takes 
Ms. Bryant's quote, I decided Ms. Bryant's words literally the 
As I turned to the "Quote of that The Observer must have whole purpose of ironic satire the Day" in the September 17 meant for the readers to inter­defeats itself, and only the blunt edition of The Observer my jaw pret the quotation in a satirical words of intolerance scream out fell to the floor. Ms. Bryant's manner. Surely, because Notre to the reader. bluntness in expressing her Dame values Christian, At a university that prides It­views about homosexuality Catholic, communal ideals The self on fostering a compassion­completely horrified me. Observer intended to condemn ate, Christian community, I 
At the very worst, the editor the ludicrous message of Ms. think The Observer used poor meant readers to take the quo­Bryant' s intolerant words. judgment in printing such an tation literally. If that was the Regardless of the intent of insensitive and intolerant ques­case, I am saddened and sick­printing such a quote, both an tion. ened by the absolute lack of ironic and a literal interpreta­Elizabeth Toohey tolerance and compassion ar­tion engender the same mes­Walsh Hall ticulated. sage: one of absolute intoler-Sept. 19,1991 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
et:XP3!~,8.1J., I THIN!< a/HAT YOU'Re 601N6 70 
HA~7DIAJ70.54~ 
'rfXIR Rei.ATION5HIP 15 81l5/CAU-Y BI.JIWAN tiNTIRUY /o/lfW CW/3-. 
/ 

YOU 80TH HAlle lDACMIT 
tf)()l< AT YaJF< MAT£3
7HAT Ya/R!i t::fFFf:l?&tvr 
7HR0()6H FR&SH ~Yt5.
f'Wft/3 NOW. 'tW ft4~ 70 
{1./()(..(J... I~
. PR&Tl3NI? !HAT YOU~ 
R£()19C()vef< t=ACH 07H&R. 
PICKING

stel/116 tfAOI OTHBR.
IMA6/N8 Fa<A MOMeNT 
UPA~
FOR 7Ht FIR5T TIMP.
7HAT YW'I$ JU5T MeT... 
l3P!X!Af., ..,
/ 
\
\ 
page 9 

J 
. j 
'It Irish Catholicism were the normal way, God would have made Pat and Mary.' 
George Smith 

Make it short. sweet and submit it to: QUOTES. P. 0. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, September 23, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-choice article. does SMC offers unique opportunity 
Dear Editor: women's college. Saint Mary's Saint Mary's is not a privilege,
not address all issues 
is alive with an individual spirit but a right. 

I am writing this letter in re­and tradition apart from NO. I The SMCIND relationship is soDear Editor: mother to willfully murder the sponse to Karl Eichelberger's for one am proud to attend that students at both schoolsinfant. 
editorial entitled "Schools are Saint Mary's. Here we are free can appreciate the other'sIn response to Jennifer M. Finally she undermines the separate institutions" (The Ob­to express our individuality as individuality, as well as benefit
Rasmussen's editorial from already weak rhetoric of the 
server, Sept. 19, 1991). While women. Our students are from the opportunity ofSept. 11, 1991 on "abortion pro-abortionist by stating that Saint Mary's and Notre Dame taught to act with self interacting with students andrights," I feel compelled to "no one ... is one hundred per­are very different and unique confidence, communicate more faculty on different campuses.
speak for a group of people cent sure" that his or her stand institutions, Mr. Eichelberger openly and effectively, and We are not trying to push andwhom Miss Rasmussen chose to on abortion is right. Speak for fails to recognize that although develop the unique values that push for more, but we are sim­leave out of her article. Despite yourself, Miss Rasmussen. I am the two schools are separate we possess was women. • ply opting to take advantage ofher concern for rights, (she sure of the fact that life begins institutions, the students are what is offered to us. Perhapsspeaks repeatedly of "the at conception; of the fact that equal. The students at Saint Mary's Mr. Eichelberger should explore woman's right to have an abor­within a week the baby has are fully aware that ND is not the possibilities of what Sainttion" and says that "the right to attached herself to the wall of Mr. Eichelberger is misin­obligated to provide us with Mary's has to otTer.
have an abortion is one that is her mother's womb; that at formed on many counts. He complete equality. What we arefundamental to a woman") three weeks her heart is beat­states that if SMC students asking for however is continu­I hope I ha:ve conveyed myMiss Rasmussen fails to con­ing; that by six weeks her brain spent "more time working on ity. With two schools so close point in a manner that was notsider the rights of the babies waves are measurable and she their own sense of place, spirit, together in proximity, students belittling as Mr. Eichelberger's.
that are being murdered, one moves and responds to touch, and tradition, they would better should be able to take advan­It does not matter if a studentevery twenty seconds in the feels pain, sucks her thumb. 
the relations." This statement tage of what is not available at attends Saint Mary's is a smallU.S., as a result of abortion. I am certain of the fact that 2 is degrading as well as detri­their own school. fees and liberal arts college dedicated toMiss Rasmussen states that "it 1/2 months after conception her mental to the relations between money are not the issue. If the intellectual, spiritual and[the baby] has, from conception, baby is completely formed, even the two schools. ND/SMC rela­Saint Mary's students have to social needs of women. Stu­depended on the woman's her fmgerprints, and that after tions committees have been pay to work out at NO, then NO dents at Saint Mary's choose toconsent" and then mistakenly three months in the womb all formed to put down the arro­students should have to pay to go to school here and deservereasons that the baby, because her organ systems are func­gant attitude that Mr. Eichel­work out at Saint Mary's. to be treated with respect.
of her dependence on her tioning, that she only grows in berger conveys in the above I laugh at Mr. Eichelberger's Saint Mary's College and Notremother, is not fully human and size and maturity-unless of statement. statement: "Maybe we should Dame are separate institutions,that therefore the mother has course her life is ended by just eliminate this privilege of but the students are equal.
the right to kill this dependent abortion. I can be sure because The students at Saint Mary';s the relationship if the SMC's arechild. Yet the child remains this is not rhetoric or theory, 
College attend school here going to push and push for Jill M. Rupert
equally dependent on her this is fact. 
because of the unique more." The relationship that Le Mans Hall mother once outside the protec­On behalf of the unborn chil­opportunity offered by an all exists between Notre Dame and Sept. 19, 1991
tion of the womb for the same dren who cannot speak for things the mother had been themselves, I beg Miss Ras­providing her in her frrst nine mussen, and all those unsure of months of life-food, shelter, their stance on the right to life, 
ND students make alumnus proud
warmth. to reconsider in light of these Surely Miss Rasmussen would facts. 
Dear Editor: anger by Michigan fans who focused on the game, much un­not advocate a women's right to Kathleen S. Renard were upset by the fact that like the apparently weak-legged deny any of these things to her Howard Hall This letter is prompted by the Notre Dame students refused to Michigan fans behind them.
child, let alone the right for the Sept. 18, 1991 behavior of the Notre Dame sit while their team was on the And what a sight and sound it 
students during last weekend's field. Sitting among the irate was when we closed the gap to 
game at Ann Arbor. Although Michigan fans, I tried to explain 17-14, as "WE ARE," was loudly
the game was seldom encourag­that it is tradition at Notre answered by "NO!" It made the 
ing for Notre Dame fans that Dame to stand throughout the trip to Ann Arbor worth it for 
day, the display of enthusiasm game in a show of appreciation me, just to see future fellow 
and class put on by the Notre for their team's efforts on the alumni once again show the 
Dame students brought a tear of field. My explanation was not country what a student section 
joy to my eyes. received very well. should be like. Go Irish! 
Throughout most of the game, At no point did I see any
and especially during the first "return fire," from our students. D.J. Doyle 
half, the students were being They largely ignored the Off-Campus
pelted by objects thrown in barrage, and instead remained Sept. 16,1991 
Gay leaders must work to help community understand homosexuals 
Dear Editor: S.Y.R. really mean Screw Your Trinity University, one of the our nation's best educated and morally enervating for 
Roommate? more influential institutions in most affluent people. Indeed, government to legislate laws or 
Taking its cue from S.U.F.R. -Gay leaders like Yore must San Antonio, has a sizeable and the singular tragedy in being college administrations to draft the group of Afrocentric con­undertake an effort to help the active gay and lesbian organi­homosexual is that such codes prohibiting discrimination spiracy theorists and affirma­larger community to under­zation. Its library has subscrip­intelligent genes and affluent on the basis of "sexual tive action misfits that staged stand homosexuals -not as a tions to several gay-oriented lifestyles can not be the boon of orientation" or laws about demonstrations last spring de­political juggernaut, or as du­magazines and boasts a large a new born child. sexual acts between or among nouncing the persecution of bious list of accomplished peo­collection of clinical works on The gay scene of San consenting individuals. blacks at our university -the ple, but as a natural phe­homosexuality. This at a con­Antonio illustrates that gays Sex is a private matter; Gays and Lesbians at Notre nomenon. servative, Presbyterian college and lesbians need not rally and much of its beauty and power Dame (GLND), has launched a The recent discovery of Dr. in a profoundly Catholic city, in shout to ward off discrimination lies in this very fact. The more campaign to have dormitories Simon LeVay of the Salk a state which until only recently and harassment. Seldom if ever we publicize sex, the less beau­proclaimed "safe havens" for Institute -if it passes muster had one of the oldest and most are there any reported cases of tiful and the more demeaned it Notre Dame's oppressed gay with the scientific and medical severe sodomy statutes in the harassment of gays and there becomes. and lesbian undergraduates. community -will do much in country. have been no reported cases of So, to the gay and lesbian 
Apparently unaware of the this regard (NYT Aug. 30). No violence against gay individuals. groups that demand recogni­"safe haven" that has existed amount of lobbying or legisla­But the "gay community," as Indeed, the scene in the tion, to those like Yore who be­here for some years in the tive maneuvering by gay orga­such, does not exist in San Alamo City should substantiate lieve that human sexuality 
basement rest room of the nizations, however, is going to Antonio. There is not single part this: that gays are not vocal and should be debated and judged Hesburgh library, the leader of make homosexuality any more of the city or any particular public because they are and defined in our legislatures the gays, Michael Yore, seems acceptable because the strategy leadership or any particular suppressed; gays are and courts we implore: parade prepared to lay siege on the for attaining acceptance of gays "rights" seeking organization suppressed because they are in your bedrooms, not in our administration. and their lifestyle has been that allows gays and lesbians to vocal and public. streets; celebrate your sexuality 
Missives soliciting sex, designed with an impossible be subsumed into a readily Unfortunately, gays continue in you bed chambers not in our sketches of sodomy, residue of goal. identifiable community like, say, to lurk in our city parks in a law chambers; realize that ho­semen on the rest room walls Cultivating tolerance without the city's blacks who live mostly most despicable search for mosexuality may not be unnat­are -Yore would have us all demanding acceptance in the on the East side and who sexual gratification. Such be­ural, but accept that it is ab­believe -the hieroglyphics of form of recognition of gay frequently complain to havior invites criticism and normal and thus unacceptable 
an oppressed people not unlike marriages, spousal employment municipal government through contempt from the larger to the vast majority of people of the artistry expressed by benefits, "safe havens," and a the local NAACP. community. As well it should. this society and of this time. S.U.F.R.'s chalk drawings. host of other propositions Through anonymous, indi­If gay leadership -and this Given Notre Dame's Catholic The scene in the basement should be both the strategy and vidual efforts gays have made means Yore -is going to label morality, in the midst of a still rest room has made more viru­the goal. their presence felt. Bookstores its homosexual following a reluctant if more accepting 
lent the disgust with which gays Take for example my native cater to a gay clientele. And the "community" then it must also society, Yore and other gay are received by all in the larger San Antonio where the gay and city's gay bars are situated in focus efforts towards eliminat­propagandists should hardly community. But Yore doesn't lesbian community thrives. San fashionable commercial areas ing this wart from the face of expect their local campaign of care. Should we undergradu­Antonio, which ranks ninth in in close proximity to San the gay subculture. gay liberation to be successful. ates hazard to guess what pro­population, is reputed to rank Antonio wealthiest neighbor­Gays should cease any Sincerely, I Am, claiming our homes "safe third in the size of its gay and hoods. attempt to further entrench Paul Peralez 
havens" will mean for dormi­lesbian community after San This is no coincidence. Gays, sexuality into the sphere of Dillon Hall tory life? Will, for instance, Francisco and New York City. by many accounts, are among public affairs. It is absurd and Sept. 15, 1991 
-
Accent 
Monday, September 23, 1991 
Pictures of 

ND alum photographs the effects of the civil war in El Salvador 
By BILL ALBERTINI government has "created a Accent Writer Frankenstein." Though peace talks started on September 20th and will last 
Since 1985, freelance photographer through this week, Moriarty thinks the and Notre Dame graduate Steve war will not stop until the United States' Moriarty has made seven trips to El funding of the war comes to a close. Salvador to document the ravages that In what Moriarty has seen of this tiny the nation's ten-year civil war has had nation, only sixty miles by one hundred on its people. His photographs will be on sixty miles, the military is growing fat 
display at The Snlte Museum of Art from from the tax dollars of United States cit­September 29 through November 24. izens, and consequently will never The images depict the horrors that the voluntarily stop the war. The fighting has brought to El Salvador, Salvadoran military has its own killing 70,000 people in ten years, and commissaries, housing developments, displacing one million more, turning a and even mortuaries, all designed to fourth of the citizens of the tiny nation keep the money from the United States into refugees. inside the military itself in order to make 
Through his photographs, Moriarty its leaders more wealthy. seeks to educate the viewer about what Moriarty has seen military leaders the war truly entails since the average living like American business leaders American knows very little about the with huge houses and expensive cars: 
fighting going on in the Central According to Moriarty, the war will not American nation. Moriarty himself knew stop until the military funding stops. very little about what was happening For his show at the Snite, Moriarty has until he visited El Salvador in 1985 as loosely grouped his forty black and white part of a wedding party. photographs into separate themes, such 
After seeing the "nice side society" he as those of the victims, the people of was introduced to the "side of the war" power, the refugees, the Church and the when he was forced through political poor, and the hope of the future. troubles to stay in El Salvador over Many of his photographs are of Christmas. lie ended up spending a few individuals, friends he has made or nights in a refugee camp run by two teachers he has had who, because of 
American nuns. This was his first their outspokenness and desire for nncountor with the horrors of the war. change, have been murdered, lie photographed on that trip, and has imprisoned, or simply "disappeared." 
been back every year since, usually for One such photo is of Tita, a Spanish two-week periods but also for up to teacher who joined a group working for three months at a time. lie also took it the unions. Because of her participation 
upon himself to become educated about in rallies and protests she simply the history of El Salvador and the civil disappeared one night. The national war, and he is eager to share his knowl­police had had her place of work under edge with a listener. Moriarty has strong observation for some time. political views about the war, its causes, This "sadistic tactic" of simply making and Its effects. 
The war in El Salvador is historically 'The last time the army seen by the United States government as 
captured me wasn't too bad. 
an East-West conflict, an attempt by Soviet-backed communists to infiltrate They only raped me twice.' Central America and spread their Influence toward the United States. In citizens disappear was, ironically, in­Moriarty's view, this idea has very little vented by the CIA in Guatemala in the basis in fact. 1950s. If an individual simply 
lie admits that the conflict has East­disappears, there is no way to tell if he is West overtones, but in essence is a true living or dead, imprisoned or run out, civil war, a conflict between the "haves and therefore the pain of loss can never and have nots." El Salvador is, according cease, because there is no complete to Moriarty, still very much a medieval closure. country, with a very small landowning There is also a set of photos of an upper-class and a huge population of Amnesty International-order 
peasants, a system which as a rule exhumation of a body from a paupers breeds unrest and rebellion. grave, to see if it was indeed the body of This rebellion is not a new thing for El a political prisoner who had been Salvador. In 1932 a revolt sprang up disappeared by the government. The and the military crushed It in what Is, mother, grandmother, and other family 
according to Moriarty, the largest members are at the scene to watch in political massacre In the history of the horror as a rotting body is removed. Western Hemisphere. 20,000 to 30,000 In his many trips to El Salvador, 
people were killed in three weeks, and Moriarty has seen first-hand the violence the fear of a similar reaction by the of the war, both the declared war government effectively quelled dissent against the rebels and the war run by for fortv vears, until the earlv 1980s. the police with their kidnapping and 
mu~ers. --­
It wa~ ~t thi~ time that uni~ns began to 
form and peasant workers and the He related one story in which he was Catholic Church increasingly came Into waiting with a television crew to 
conflict with the government and photograph a news conference of union military, which sparked the civil war organizers, when a man ran in from the street shouting that a kidnapping was
which Is still raging. 
In Moriarty's view, the war has little taking place outside. Moriarty and the chance of soon stopping because the television crew ran to the scene and found a truck driven by two thugs and
United States funds the military of El Salvador in its combat of the rebels. filled with uniformed police who were 
Because of the United States' East-West, trying to pull a union organizer into the communism-capitalism view of the war, truck. Moriarty and the took
crew we have been funding the" military of El pictures and yelled at the truck. 
Salvador to such an extreme that, as At one point a police officer leaned out and pointed a rifle at all of them, but
Moriarty sees it, it has grown to be an they successfully caused enough of a stir
"out-of-control military monster" that is "accountable to nobody." and brought enough publicity to get the 
In essence, Moriarty stated, the U.S. man freed. According to Moriarty, if the 

"The Old Guitarist • is one of Steve Moriarty's photographs exposing the victims and the poor from this "side of the war." 
-
man had been taken he would probably veterans, anxious, according to Moriarty, never have been seen again. to make successful the tactics that failed 
Moriarty has photographs of "the in Vietnam. Mao-tse-tung, leader of the people of power" including El Salvador's communist Chinese revolution, once said president, Jose Napoleon Duarte, a that a Guerrilla is as a fish in the sea, so graduate of Notre Dame who was taught the advisers plan to drain the sea in by Father Hesburgh. Duarte was elected order to kill the fish. in 1984 on the grounds that he would Much of the land of El Salvador has end the war, but he was unable or sim­been decimated in a search-and-destroy ply unwilling to break the hold of the pattern. The military bombs out houses military. and villages, then moves in and makes 
According to Moriarty, who on his trips them completely uninhabitable, killing to El Salvador has spent some time with or eating all the livestock and destroying Duarte, the United States embassy every last tool and utensil. attempts to order the president around, The areas are then declared free-fire and he has little real power in the zones, so anyone moving in the area is running of his nation and of the war. considered a guerrilla and shot, whether 
Though many people try to pass off they are a civilian or an actual Duarte's inability to stop the war, rebel.This is the driving force which Moriarty plainly states "the guy was a displaced the one million people in El failure. He was elected to end the war Salvador, many of whom either moved to and he didn't." city slums or out of the country, often to 
There are many pictures of the other the United States, where they are not side of the conflict, of the leftist guerillas even recognized as refugees. The official who are fighting to change the structure U.S. policy of the war looks at it from the of society in El Salvador. The FMLN is a other side of the fence. coalition of five political factions all As a whole, Moriarty's photographs fighting the established military govern­paint the picture of a nation completely 
ment of El Salvador. torn asunder by the ten-year war. 
One photo of the FMLN shows Walter, Through Moriarty's photographs, El a member of the guerrilla army who Salvador becomes a nation where the started on the road to his present government refuses to allow teachers or position as an altar boy, reading about electricity in areas where there are injustice in the Bible, seeing it around strong leftist sympathies, as the gov­him, and deciding there was no way to ernment deliberately tries to keep these make a change short of fighting for it. areas primitive. One of the photographs depicts a rebel It Is a nation that is completely static, leader reading from his Bible, finding because anyone with an idea for change some purpose in the words written is immediately killed, imprisoned, or there. made to disappear. It is a nation which 
On his trips to El Salvador, Moriarty had a Sunday television show on which often sees first-hand the actual fighting names of supposed communists were of the war. He was nearby when rebels read. attacked a military post with rockets, Within the week., tho~;e namod olthor and he has very graphic photographs of fled the country or were arrested and guerrillas, military personnel, and possibly executed. El Salvador is a civilians killed in the fighting. "The nation where a teacher photographed by reality of a civil war," said Moriarty, is Moriarty told him, "The last time the "not just soldiers and guerrillas dying, army captured me wasn't too bad. They but civilians." only raped me twice." 
The national army of El Salvador is Moriarty is a member of an unofficial almost entirely forcibly recruited. There "Friends of Santa Cruz" group which is theoretically a draft for the entire helps out the village of Santa Cruz, a vil­nation, but only the poor are ever lage of war refugees who are trying to drafted. These soldiers then fight the rebuild what they once knew. A dozen or FMLN, which is made up of poor so faculty, students, and staff from Notre peasants. Therefore, the Moriarty be­Dame have visited Santa Cruz over the lieves the civil war is simply "the poor years. They have raised money for fighting the poor so the rich can stay school and medical supplies, and oxen rich." and dairy cattle for the village. A study 
Military advisers sent to El Salvador by of the village is included in Moriarty's the United States are often Vietnam display at the Snite. 
. 

page 12 The Observer Monday, September 23, 1991 
Shula win's 300th as Dolphins trip Pack; Saints, Redskins improved to 4-0 
Dolphlns16, Packers 13 

The Dolphins offense gained just 232 yards and extended its touchdown-less streak to six quarters. But Pete Stoyanovich kicked three field goals and Reggie Roby punted seven times for an average of 52.7 yards. 
Mark Higgs, the second-lead­ing rusher in the NFL, was held to 43 yards in 18 carries by visiting Green Bay. But the Packers couldn't get out of their own way early -in their first two possessions, they were flagged for four penalties, gave up three sacks and failed to pick up a fll'St down. 
Patriots 24, Oilers 20 

The Patriots had scored just one touchdown in their first three games and quarterback Tommy Hodson was benched for Millen. McMurtry had just one catch in those games. 
But the Patriots led 17-6 after three quarters. Then Warren Moon threw two touchdowns to Curtis Duncan to put Houston ahead 20-17 with 1:52 remain­ing. 
New England, 1-15 last year but already 2-2 this season, didn't flinch. Instead, it drove 83 yards. The winner came as McMurtry caught Millen's pass up the middle at the 22, put a move on Mike Dumas at the 15, angled to the right and raced into the corner of the end zone. 
49ers 27, Rams 10 

Jerry Rice broke loose for one of his patented long touchdown catch-and-run plays, going 62 yards and breaking three tack­les. That gave San Francisco a 20-10 lead and Harry Sydney's 25-yard touchdown run with 
3:16 remaining clinched it. The 49ers kept Jim Everett as the league's only starting quarter­back without a touchdown pass. 
Bills 17, Buc;caneers10 

For the second straight week, the Bills needed a late drive to remain unbeaten. They pro­duced 421 yards of offense, the final 76 coming on the decisive drive. Jim Kelly's 29-yard touchdown pass to Keith McKeller won it. 
Buffalo wasn't safe until Chris Chandler's final pass from the Buffalo 8 fell incomplete in the end zone. 
The victory snapped Buffalo's five-game losing streak in Tampa Stadium, site of the Bills' loss to the Giants in last January's Super Bowl. Tampa Bay (0-4) has lost six straight under coach Richard Williamson. 
Broncos 27, Chargers19 

At Denver, Gaston Green broke loose for 63-and 20-yard scores in the fourth quarter. Green carried 24 times for 127 
yards and scored three times ­
the first rushing TDs of his 4­
year NFL career. 
Twice, the winless Chargers 
pulled within one point. First, at 
13-12, Green produced his 63­
yard run. Then, at 20-19, Green 
scored again. 
Chiefs 20, Seahawks 13 

At Kansas City, Steve DeBerg 
threw two touchdown passes 
and Nick Lowery kicked two 
field goals. Derrick Thomas, 
who sacked Dave Krieg an NFL­
record seven times last year 
when the Seahawks won in 
Kansas City, was double-teamed 
most of the day and got to Jeff 
Kemp only once, for a 9-yard 
loss late in the game. 
The Seahawks took the 
opening kickoff and marched 
from their 35 to the Kansas City 
3 before Deroo Cherry got his 
47th career interception and 
lOth against Seattle. The Chiefs 
then went 71 yards on 15 plays 
to take a 3-0 lead on Lowery's 
27-yarder. 
Redsklns 34, Bengals 27 
At Cincinnati, the Redskins ·won their fourth straight and 
dealt the winless Bengals their 
fourth consecutive loss, re­
bounding with their top-rated 
ground game after blowing a 
17 -point lead. 
Gerald Riggs, who ran for 
three touchdowns, had a 7­yarder with 2:02 to play. That capped a drive of 53 yards on six running plays. 
The Bengals, off to their worst start since 1984, had rallied to tie it on two touchdown runs by Craig Taylor and Jim Breech's 25-yard field goal. 
Saints 26, VIkings 0 
The Saints fmally figured out how to handle Minnesota, which in the last four meetings had beaten New Orleans by a total of 154-33, including a 44­10 whipping in the first playoff game for New Orleans in 1987. 
This time, Sam Mills' intercep­tion led to one score and Gill Fenerty set up another with a 54-yard run. Mills had 10 tack­les and New Orleans held Minnesota to 151 total yards and Herschel Walker to only 15 yards rushing. 
Morten Andersen had four field goals for New Orleans, 4-0 for the first time. 
Lions 33, CoHs 24 
At Indianapolis, Detroit held the Colts (0-4) to a franchise­low 4 yards rushing and roared back from a 10-point deficit. 
While Barry Sanders was rushing for 179 yards and two touchdowns, Eric Dickerson was held to a career-low 17 yards on 13 carries by the rapidly improving Lions de­fense. 
That defense was helped by the Colts' Clarence Verdin, who bobbled a punt and was tackled at the Indianapolis 1 in the third period. Dickerson was tackled in the end zone by Jerry Ball on the next play for a safety. 
Dickerson's 17 yards gave him 12,121 career yards and moved him past Franco Harris into fourth place on the NFL rushing list. 
Falcons 21, Raiders 17 

Chris Miller threw for two TDs, including a 46-yarder to Michael Haynes to break a 14­14 tie 6 seconds into the final period. 
The defense clinched it when Tim McKyer intercepted Jay Schroeder in the end zone on a fourth-and-12 play from the Atlanta 23. Earlier, a safety blitz by Deion Sanders caught Schroeder from the blind side, causing a fumble that Jessie Tuggle returned 18 yards for a touchdown. 
Eagles 23, Steelers 14 

Remember Jim McMahon and Roy Green? The Stealers won't forget them. 
McMahon, Philadelphia's quarterback for the season with Randall Cunningham sidelined, completed 22 of 31 passes for 286 yards and scored on a quarterback sneak. 
The Observer accepts dassKieds wary business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame olflce, 314 LaFortune and •rom 12 p.m. to 3 p.m at 309 Haggar Collage Center. Deadline for next-day classKieds Is 3p.m. All classified& must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces.
-
HELP!! DESPERATELY need I NEED MICH ST TIX IN THE NEEDED: SIX TENN. GAs FOR SALE, 2 TIXS ALL HOME LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes 4 GA's for USC for family!! WORST WAY. WILL GIVE YOU A call Jeremy 277-4873 GAMES 273-1802 every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am.
I NOTICES 

Alicex4907 RIDE IN THE YEN-MOBILE AS Eastern time. Train and jump the 
ADDED BONUS WANTED: 2 NO/TN tickets. CAll NEED 2 NAVY GAS same day. Modern equipment and USED BOOKS CHEAP!!!!!!!!!! CHRIS X3414 or 3410 502-354-8826 from 5 pm to 9pm @284-5029 training programs. Licensed 25% off list price $Marketing Co. needs ND/SMC collect. instructors. FFI call Skydive 10-5:30 everyday students originally from South DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS GA'S Need GA's for Pitt., Hastings (616) 948-2665. Pandora's Books corner of NO Bend. Make own hours,GREAT PAY, 1 MSU USC, and Tenn. ave& Howard good exp. for resumes.$$271-2PITI WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR Jay x1578 CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP 
1803$$ PLEASE HELP! NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. TYPiNG AVAILABLE KARENX4918 COLLECT 614-459-0074 NEEDED: FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 287-4082 Desperately need ride for Oct. EVENINGS. 
Break-anywhere on LI,NY WANTED: 3 PITI GA's for 3 GA's to USC game CONGRATULATIONS TO THE Desktop publishing. Able to meet Please help!! X2172 Keri family. I WILL PAY BIG BUCKS! NOTRE DAME please call Mike at x1578 WALSH HALL FOOTBALL TEAM! all typing/typesetting needs. 20 HELP ME! Dan x2349 TICKETS WANTED This is just the first of a season full years experience; reasonable rates. 271-1371 Need Tenn GAs of victories-both on and off the Call Diana 272-5259. FOR RENT Air Force GA's, X1502 Have$$$$ field. You are the best! 
I NEED GA'S TO EVERY HOME Karen x4808 Yours in Football, BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY -USC TROJANS-GAME! CALL MIKE 1655 Your devoted coaches 
LOST/FOUND I

219-291-7153 -need SIX g.a.'s ­
I I PERSONALS
CALL R 0 B at x1845 TOP $$$ FOR GA TENN TXS Stacy Jones, LOST: SOCCER BALL LEFT AT House for Rent RANDY 800-323-7687 Here's your classified. Thanks for STEPAN RELDS. PLEASE $150tMo, call Paul287-2159 Have 2 USC GA's. Will trade I am the Lizard King and I can do the b-r! Get that ball y'all. RElURN. 8am-4pm. for 4 Pitt GA's. Call Colleen, x2525. NO '82/SMC '83 grads from PA anything. 
Call Dan 0271-9239 to Calif. returning for reunion. Hey Homewrecker..... 
Furnished apts. near N.D. I NEED NAVY GAs OR STUDS. We need GA's for USC! Please $$$$ Cards? LOST: BROWN LEATHER cozy 1 bedrm $255 WILL TRADE PURDUE GAs + help us!!! Call my little sister, Need GA's to all home games. WALLET ON 9/9 (MON.) clean 2 bedrm $340, $. HEATHER x3750. AMY, at X2875. THANKS! have extra Purdue tix. Hello Carla, 
IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT ED dept. ref. 1-800-582-9320. Call Tom x1563 My little hunk of choclate love. OR STEVE AT X3402 REWARD!! I REALLY NEED 2 GA'S FOR TENN Need 2 Navy GA's And 2 Tenn. GA's NOTRE DAME AVE.2 GAME!! X 1684 Make my life call Dave 112201 Going to CLEVELAND this Nice win Siegfried Slammers! 
found claddagh at the drovers concert. x2903 
LOST: Student I.D. card case w/temporary I. D., driver's license, and other cards belonging to Francis Kelly. 
PLEASE return to 307 Carroll! 
·--·-·-··--····­

~ --·-·Losr·---··
, 
~ 
Black Leather Men's Wallet at the Common's -if you found it or took it by accident 
PLEASE CALL 

BEDROOM.FURNISHED.272-6306 I NEED 4 TENNESSEE. GA'S $$$ 2 USC GA's Needed SEAN H. @289-6439. Call Patrick@ 271-1573
FOR SALE 

2 WOMEN'S & 2 MEN'S 10-SPEED SCHWINN FULL SIZE BIKES. $100 EA. 
272-6139. 
ATTENTION: BANDS!!!! 
PLEASE HELP!! I NEED GAS TO HOME GAMES My two (BIG) brothers are coming CALL 312 733-5070 for the USC game-they Will be VERYMADifl i need 2 GA's for USC and PITI. don't get them tix. Greg x1795. 
.............................
Quality PA system 4-sale x1143 VERY REASONABLE!! NEED: NO ALUM NEEDS TICKETS Call John x1109 or Geoff x1064 TO ANY OR ALL NO HOME 
GAMES. NEED 4 TENNGA'S. 288-9621 
NEED 2 USC GA'S-PLEASE!! Call Colleen at X4900. Need 4 USC GA's Call Bill 
weekend? I might like a ride, please. Pete x1791. 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIP + CASH! CANCUN, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS! SELL TRIPS ON CAMPUS AND EARN FREE TRIP + BONUS CASH! FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
Are you going to PURDUE? I need a ride. Beth x4341 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA 
1117-I couldn't take my eyes off of you during the game. You fill my days and haunt my nights. Everything you do is beautiful. 
-Your Secret Admirer 
The Secret of Getting Rich: 
Amazing Book Tells All. Free Offer Details-Send a self-addressed stamped envelope to: 
Book. P.O. Box 311 
Mercersburg, PA 17236-A 

' 
' 
-
' 
' 
Kristen Harknett 288-9421 
---··--··---······-··---···· 
LOST 
Gold colored class ring between Fitzpatrick and Ranner 
Please call Tom x1172 
LOST: RED. WHITE AND BLUE BIKE HELMET IN EITHER CUSHING OR O'SHAG ON 9/11 OR 9/12. PLEASE CALL!!!! DAVID--271-8577 
FO\.)ND men's gold watch in Fitz computer lab Wed. night call 111245 
WANTED 
WANTED: Off-campus roommate. Furnished. Call Jon at271-1562. 

Guitar Lessons from NO Teacher Call Stephen Miller 255-9343 
OOKETS 

NEED 2GA OR 1STD/1GA FOR USC,TENN.CALL KEN-3598. 
NEED AT LEAST 3 GA'S FOR NAVY GAME. CALL MARK COLLECT AT 1-407-886-5161. 
need GA's to TENN game lisa 2572 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? NEED 3 TICKETS TO NO vs USC ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­0654. 
CALL JOE AT 11271-1430. HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S, STUDENTTIX,
............................ 
AND $$$$$ TO TRADE. 
NEED 1 PITIGA Sheri x2191 Selling std tix book 
232-1094 after 6 PM PLEASE HELP! I NEED 2 PITI GA's. X-1750Kyle NEED 8 PITI TICKETS FOR POOR 
RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN X1589 
Need one Pitt GA. X2172 ask for Keri 
NEEDED! Pitt GAs Navy stud. If you can help call Scott 2373. 
I NEED TENN TIX BADLY! 
CALL MIKE AT 1103. FOR SALE: 1 USC STUD and 1TENN STUD. Call ALLEN NEEDED: 2TENN GA's for Alum. 113287 Please call Susan: 284-4435 
2GA,s Stanford For Sale Please, I need 3 Pitt GA's Call John @4050 Mattx3795 
Info on semester, year, graduate, summer. and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
FEMALE MUSICIANS WANTED TO FORM AN ALL-GIRLS BAND. CALL JONI X3793 OR LAURA X3486 
FAST EASY INCOME! EARN 100'S WEEKLY STUFFING ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­ADDRESSED STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: FAST INCOME P.O. BOX 641517 CHICAGO, IL 60664-1517 
heynif 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
The Observer is now accepting applications for: 
Circulation Drivers 
Must be available Friday afternoons 
Contact Joe Guddemi @ 283-3936 or Gil Gomez @ 239-7471 
I Need NAVY 2 GA's ! ! Dave 256-5034 
PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay $$$. Call at work 
(312) 701-6204 or at home 
(708) 616-7818 anytime. PITI TIX PITI TIX PITI TIX 
Monday, September 23, 1991  SCOREBOARD  page 13  
cw;:p,J1'J''•11t[1- NFL STANDINGS  NL LEADERS  
AMERICAN LEAGUE  AMERICAN CONFERENCE  NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Eul Dlvlolon  Eut  BATTING-Morris, Cincinnati, .321;  
w L Pet L10 Streak Home Away Toronto 82 67 .550 3·7 Lost 2 42·33 40-34 Boston 81 68 .544 1 7-3 Lost! 42·33 39-35 Delroll 75 73 .507 6 1/2 3·7 Lost 6 44·29 31-44 Milwaukee 72 75 .490 9 7·3 Won 3 38·34 34-41 New York 63 85 .426 18 112 3·7 Won1 35·40 28-45 Ballimora 62 87 .416 20 4·6 Lost 2 30-45 32-42 Cleveland 51 96 .347 30 7·3 Won2 27·47 24-49  w L T Pet. R= Bullalo 4 0 0 1.000 127 Miami 2 2 0 .500 77 New England 2 2 0 . 500 46 N.Y. Jets 1 2 0 .333 49 Indianapolis 0 4 0 .000 37 Cantrel  PA 95 71 67 56 82  TGwynn, San Diego, .317; Pendleton, Atlanta, .314; McGee, San Francisco, .311; Jose, St. Louis, .309; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, .305; Larkin, Cincinnati, .302 . RUNS-Butler, Los Angeles, 105; Johnson, New York, 1 03; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 96; Sandberg, Chicago, 95; Gant, Atlanta, 91; JBell, Phtsburgh, 90; Pendleton,  
Weot Dlvlolon w L Pet LIO Streak Home Away Minnesota 9 0 60 .600 5·5 Won3 49·27 41-33 Chicago 82 68 .547 8 5·5 Lost 2 43·31 39-37 Oakland 78 70 .527 11 4·6 Won2 43·30 35-40 Taus n 71 .520 12 4·6 Lost 4 43·31 34-40 Seattle 76 72 .514 13 7·3 Won 1 43·31 33-41 Ka'naaa City 75 73 .507 14 5·5 Lost 1 35·39 40-34 Calllornla 75 74 .503 14 1/2 6·4 Won2 36-39 39-35  Houston 3 0 . 750 114 Cleveland 2 2 0 .500 58 Pittsburgh 2 2 0 .500 94 Cincinnati 0 4 0 .000 61 Wool Denver 3 0 .750 101 Kansas City 2 2 0 .500 51 LA Aalders 2 2 0 .500 66 Seattle 1 3 0 .250 67  55 52 101 123 59 50 81 76  Atlanta, 88 . ABI--Johnson, New York. 1 08; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 1 06; WCiark, San Francisco, 105; McGriff, San Diego, 100; Dawson, Chicago, 1 00; Gant, Atlanta, 97; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 94. HITS-Butler, Los Angeles, 172; Pendleton, Atlanta, 169; TGwynn, San Diego, 168; Bonilla, Pittsburgh, 166; Jose, St. Louis, 163; Sabo, Cincinnati, 160; Grace,  
NATIONAL LEAGUE Ent Dlvlalon W L Pet l10 Streak Home Away  San Diego 0 4 0 .000 63 NATIONAL CONFERENCE Eeot  100  Chicago, 159; Sandberg, Chicago, 159. DOUBLES-Bonllla, Pittsburgh, 42; Jose, St. Louis, 40; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 35; Morris, Cincinnati, 32; Sabo, Cincinnati, 32; Gant,  
X·PIItaburgh 91 59 .607 8-2 Won2 47-28 44-31 St. LouIa 7 7 72 .517 13 112 4·6 Won1 45·29 32-43 New York 72 7 7 .483 18 112 5·5 Lost! 37-39 35-38 Chicago 71 7 6 .483 18 112 3·7 Lost! 42·34 29-42  w L T Pet. R= Washington 4 0 0 1.000 146 Philadelphia 3 1 0 .750 77 Dallas 2 2 0 .500 74  PA 58 43 80  Atlanta, 32; McReynolds, New York, 32. TAIPLES-Lanldord, St. Louis, 14; TOwynn, San Diego, 11; Finlay, Houston, 1 0; LGonzalez, Houston, 8; Grissom, Montreal, 8;  
Philadelphia 71 79 .473 20 5·5 Lost 2 43-34 28-45  N.Y. Giants 2 2 0 .500 59  63  JBell, Pittsburgh, 7; Candaala, Houston, 7;  
Monlreal 6 5 8 2 .442 24 112 6·4 Won1 33·35 32·47  Phoenix 2 2 0 .500 59  75  Pendleton, Atlanta, 7; Van Slyke,  
Weal Dlvlalon  Centre!  Pittsburgh, 7; Owen, Montreal, 7. HOME RUNS-Johnson, Now York, 36;  
W L Pet LIO Streak Home Away Loa Angeles 86 64 .573 7·3 Won! 49·25 37-39 Atlanta 85 64 .570 112 6-4 Lost! 45·30 40-34 San Diego 7 6 7 4 .507 10 5·5 Won2 37-38 39·36 Cincinnati 71 79 .473 15 3·7 Lost! 38·37 33-42 San Francisco 6 9 8 0 .463 16 112 5·5 Lost 2 40·35 29-45  Chicago 3 0 0 1.000 51 Detroll 3 1 0 .750 73 Minnesota 2 2 0 .500 43 Green Bay 1 3 0 .250 45 Tampa Bay 0 4 0 .000 56  43 96 69 72 69  Gant, Atlanta, 30; MaWIIIIams, San Francisco, 30; McGrlfl, San Diego, 29; Dawson, Chicago, 28; O'Neill, Cincinnati, 27; KvMitchell, San Francisco, 27. STOLEN BASES-Nixon, Atlanta, 72; Grissom, Montreal, 70; DeShields, Montreal,  
Houston 61 8 9 .407 25 4·6 Won! 36·39 25-50 x·cllnched division title z-denotes llrst game was a win.  Weal New Orleans 4 0 0 1.000 94 Atlanta 2 2 0 .500 56  41 61  55; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 41; Lanldord, St. Louis, 38; Butler, Los Angeles, 38; Coleman, New York, 37.  
AMERICAN LEAGUE Saturday'• Gamea Cleveland 10, Baltimore Boston 12, New York 1 Oakland 4, Toronto 0 California 4, Chicago 3 Milwaukee 5, Dolrolt 2 Minnesota 8, Texas 4  San Francisco 2 2 0 .500 89 LA Rams 3 0 .250 50 Sunday'• Gamea New York Giants 13, Cleveland 10 Detroit 33, Indianapolis 24 Miami 16, Green Bay 13 Washington 34, Cincinnati 27 New England 24, Houston 20 Atlanta 21, Los Angeles Aalders 17  57 88  PITCHING (15 Declslons)-AI)o, Cincinnati, 14-5, .737, 2.41; Smiley, Pittsburgh, 18-8, .692, 3.29; MIWIIIIams, Philadelphia, 11-5, .687, 2.16; Avery, Atlanta, 17-8..680, 3.32; Hurst. San Diego, 15-8, .652, 3.29; Gooden, New York, 13-7, .650, 3.60; Glavlne, Atlanta, 19-11, .633, 2.59. STRIKEOUTS--Cone, New York, 209;  
Seattle 4, Kansas City Sunday'a Gamea  New Orleans 26, Minnesota 0 Philadelphia 23, Pittsburgh 14  Glavlne, Atlanta, 177; GMaddux, Chicago, 177; Harnisch, Houston, 158; Benes, San  
Late Games Not Included  Denver 27, San Diego 19  Diego, 151; Gooden, New York, 150; Greene,  
Cleveland 2, Baltimore Milwaukee 9, Detroit 5 Minnesota 9, Texas 4  San Francisco 27, Los Angelos Rams 10 Kansas City 20, Seattle 13 Bullalo 17, Tamp a Bay 1 0  Philadelphia, 149; Aljo, Cincinnati, 149. SAVES-LeSmlth, St. Louis, 42; Dibble, Cincinnati, 30; MIWIIIIams, Philadelphia,  
New York 7, Boston 5, 10 Innings California 4, Chicago 2 Kansas City at Seattle Toronto at Oakland, (n) Monday'• Gemea  Dallas 17, Phoenix 9 Monday'• Game New York Jets at Chicago, 9 p.m.  28; Franco, New York, 27; Righetti, San Francisco, 24; Lellerts, San Diego, 22; BLandrum. Pittsburgh, 17; DaSmhh, Chicago, 17; Borenguer, Atlanta, 17.  
Boston (Gardiner g. 7) at Baltimore (Mesa 5·11 ), 7:35 p.m.  
Cleveland (King 5·1 0) at Detroit (Gullickson t 8·9), 7:35 p.m.  
New York (Johnson 5·11) at Milwaukee (Navarro 13·12), 8:05 p.m. Kansas City (Aquino 8-3) at Oakland (Stewart 11·10), 10:05 p.m.  AP TOP 25  AL LEADERS  
Texas (Bohanon 3·3) at Seattle (Johnson 12-10), 10:05 p.m. Toronto (Candlottl 13-11) at California (Finley 17-9), 10:35 p.m. Onl~ games scheduled Tueadey'e Gemoa Boston at Baltimore. 7:35 p.m. Cleveland at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. New York at Milwaukee, 8:05 p.m. Chicago at Minnesota, 8:05 p.m.  The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated Press 1991 college lootball poll, with llrst-place votes In parentheses, records through Sept. 21, total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through one point lor a 25th-place vote, and previous ranking: Record Pts Pvs  AMERICAN LEAGUE BATIING-Franco, Texas, .341; Boggs, Boston, .333; Griffey Jr, Seattle, .327; Palmelro, Texas, .326; Tartabull, Kansas City, .326; Thomas, Chicago, .323; CAipken, Baltimore, .323. AUNS--Molltor, Milwaukee, 117; Canseco,  
Kansas City at Oakland, 10:05 p.m. Toronto at California, 10:35 p.m. Texas at Seattle, 10:35 p.m.  1. Florida St. (48) 3-0-0 1,486 1 2. Miami (8) 2-0-0 1,412 2 3. Michigan (1) 2-0-0 1,375 3  Oakland, 108; Palmelro, Texas, 107; Sierra, Texas, 104; White, Toronto, 104; Franco, Texas, 100; Thomas, Chicago, 97; Raines,  
NATIONAL LEAGUE Saturday'• Gamaa  4. Washington (3) 2·0·0 1,365 4 5. Tennessee 3·0·0 1,191 6 6. Oklahoma 2·0·0 1,166 7  Chicago, 97. ABI-Fleldar, Detroit, 128; Canseco, Oakland, 113; Sierra, Texas, 107; Thomas,  
Chicago at Montreal, ppd.  7. Clemson 2-0-0 1,159 8  Chicago, 104; Carter, Toronto, 104; CAipken,  
New York 5, St. Louis 3  8. Notre Dame 2·1-0 1,000 11  Bahlmore, 101; JuGonzalez, Texas, 97.  
Pittsburgh 7, Philadelphia 0  9. Iowa 2·0-0 933 10  HITS--Molltor, Milwaukee, 193; CAipkon,  
Cincinnati 4, Houston 1  10. Penn St. 3·1·0 870 12  Baltimore, 191; Palmelro, Texas, 190;  
San Diego 3, San Francisco 2  tie. Syracuse 3-0-0 870 18  Sierra, Texas, 186; Franco, Texas, 186;  
Loa Angelos 2, Atlanta 1  12. Baylor 3-0-0 850 14  Puckett, Minnesota, 185; AAiomar, Toronto,  
Sunday'a Gamoa  13. Aubum 3-0-0 825 13  176.  
Late Games Not Included  14. Florida 2-1-0 712 5  DOUBLES-Palmelro, Texas, 46; Sierra,  
Montreal 8, Chicago 2, 1st Game  15. Ohio St. 3-0-0 647 16  Texas, 42; CAipken, Baltimore, 42; Grllley  
Montreal at Chicago, 2nd Game  16. Nebraska 2-1-0 548 9  Jr, Seattle, 41; Carter, Toronto, 41; Reed,  
Pittsburgh 2, Philadelphia 1  17. Colorado 2·1-0 534 19  Boston, 40; Boggs, Boston, 39.  
St. Louis 2, Now York 1  18. Pittsburgh 3·0·0 503 20  TAIPLES-AAiomar, Toronto, 11;  
Houston 4, Cincinnati 1  19. Georgia Tech 2·1-0 498 17  LJohnson, Chicago, 11; Molitor, Milwaukee,  
Atlanta at Loa Angeles  20. California 3-0-0 344 24  11; McRae, Kansas City, 9; White, Toronto,  
San Francisco at San Diego  21. Mississippi St. 3-1·0 266 23  9; Gladden, Minnesota, 9; Devereaux,  
Monday'a Gamaa  22. Alabama 2·1-0 151  Baltimore, 8; Mack, Minnesota, 8; Polonla,  
Montreal (Sampan 8-4 and Haney 3-5) at St. Louis (B.Smlth 11-8 and DeLeon 5-9),  23. North Carolina 2-0-0 136  California, 8.  
2, 6:05p.m.  24. Arizona St. 2·0-0 124  HOME RUNS-Fielder, Detroit, 43;  
Philadelphia (Mulholland 15-11) at Chicago (Maddux 12-10), 8:05 p.m.  25. Illinois 2·1·0 116  Canseco, Oakland, 42; Carter, Toronto, 33;  
San Francisco (Wilson 11·10) at Houston (Harnisch 10-9), 8:35 p.m.  CAipken, Baltimore, 31; Thomas, Chicago,  
Only games scheduled  30; Tartabull, Kansas City, 29; CDavls,  
Tuaaday'a Gam••  Minnesota, 28.  
PENNANT RACES  TRANSACTIONS  STOLEN BASES-AHenderson, Oakland, 51; Raines, Chicago, 50; AAiomar, Toronto,  
48; Polonla, California, 46; Cuyler, Detroit,  
AMERICAN LEAGUE Ent Dlvlalon w L Pet. Toronto 83 67 .553 Boston 81 68 .544 112 Detroll 75 73 .507 7 Remaining Games TORONTO (12)-Home (6): Sept. 27-29, Minnesota; Sept. 30-0cl. 1·2, Calllornla. Away (6): Sept. 23-25, CaiHornla; Oct. 4-6, Minnesota. BOSTON (13)-Home (6): Oct. 1·3, Detroit; Oct. 4-6, Milwaukee. Away (7): Sept. 23-25, Bahlmore; Sept. 27-30, Milwaukee.  FOOTBALL National Football League LOS ANGELES RAIDERS--Waived Doug Lloyd, running back, from the practice squad. Activated Marcus Wilson, running back, Irom the practice squad. MIAMI DOLPHINS-Placed Ferrell Edmunds. tight end, on Injured reserve. Activated Charles Henry, tight end, from the practice squad.  37; White, Toronto, 33; Franco, Texas, 30. PITCHING (15 Declslons)-Hesketh, Boston, 11-4, .733, 3.21; Erickson, Minnesota, 18· 7, .720, 3.34; Langston, California, 17·7, .708, 2.94; Clemens, Boston, 11·8, .680, 2.43; Tapanl, Minnesota, 16-8, .667, 2.87; JoGuzman, Texas, 12·6, .667, 3.20; Gullickson, Detroit, 18-9, .667, 4.08. STRIKEOUTS-Clemens, Boston, 217; AJohnson, Seattle, 208; McDowell, Chicago,  
DETROIT (14) -Homo (8): Sept. 23·26, Cleveland; Sept. 27·30, Bahlmore. Away (8): Oct 1·3, Bollen; Oct. 4-6, Bahlmore. Weal Dlvlalon W L Pet. CE Minnesota 9 0 6 0 .800 Chicago 82 68 .547 8 Remaining Games MINNESOTA (12)-Homo (5): Sept. 24-25, Chicago; Oct. 4-6, Toronto. Away (7): Sept.  HOCKEY National Hockey League NEW JERSEY DEVILS--Signed Vale~ Zelepukhln, right wing. ST. LOUIS BLUES--Traded Rod Brind'Amour and Dan Quinn, centers, to the Philadelphia Flyers lor Ron Sutter, center, and Murray Baron, delenseman.  185; Ryan, Texas, 179; Langston, Calllomla, 165; Candlottl, Toronto, 162; Swindell, Cleveland, 161. SAVES-Harvey, Callfomla. 42; Aguilera, Minnesota, 40; Eckersley, Oakland, 40; Reardon, Boston, 40; Henke, Toronto, 32; Montgomery, Kansas City, 30; Thigpen, Chicago, 30.  ·­ 
27·29, Toronto; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-3, Chicago.  
CHICAGO (12)-Home (7): Sept. 27·29, Seattle; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-3, Minnesota. Away  
(5): Sept. 24-25, Minnesota; Oct. 4-6, Seattle.  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Weal Dlvlelon  
w L Pet.  
Loa Angeles 8 7 64 .576  
Atlanta 85 65 .567 1 112  
Remaining Games  
ATLANTA (12)-Home (6): Sept. 24·26, Cincinnati; Oct. 4·6, Houston. Away (6): Sept.  
27-29, Houston; Sept. 30-0ct. 1-2, Cincinnati.  
LOS ANGELES (11)-Home (6): Sept. 27·29, San Francisco; Sept. 30-0ct. 1·2, San  
Diego. Away (5): Sept. 24-25, San Diego; Oct. 4·6, San Francisco.  

The Observer Monday, September 23, 1991 
R. Garr Schwartz/The Observer Senior split end Tony Smith pulls down one of his four receptions against the Spartans. Smith is the leading Irish receiver this year. 
John Rock/The Observer Breaking out into daylight, sophomore tailback Willie Clark accumulates a large chunk of his 56 rushing yards. 


Macy HueckeVThe Observer Irish quarterback Rick Mirer drops back to attempt a pass. Against the Spartans, Mirer threw for a career-high three touchdowns. 
-· 

The Observer page 15
Monday, September 23, 1991 
Irish win produces costly injuries 
Brooks brothers star; Mirer sets personal high for tds 
BY ANTHONY KING AND RICH KURZ Sports Writers 
The Irish win against the Spartans didn't come without some expense. Two Notre Dame starters left the game with injuries. 
Captain Rodney Culver left the game in the first half with a sprained ankle. The extent of Culver's Injury won't be known until today, but It may be enough to keep him out of next week's contest at Purdue. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz indi­cated that freshman Lee Becton saw significant playing time Saturday In the event that Culver doesn't play against the Boilermakers. 
Defensive tackle Eric Jones suffered pinched ne_rves in the contest and will be questionable for next week's game. 
Fullback Jerome Bettis left the game for several plays after getting twisted into some un­natural positions, but returned to play the remainder of the game. 
"I have a feelin~ Jerome 
Bettis will be sore tomorrow," said Holtz. 
The Irish coaches gave run­ning back Tony Brooks a game ball for his efforts against the Spartans, but Tony gave it to someone he felt was more de­serving-his younger brother, Heggie, who scored his first touchdown in an Irish uniform on a two-yard run in the first quarter. 
Reggie told some reporters that he was just holding it for his older brother. When Tony was told of Reggie's comment, he joked, "It doesn't matter whose it is. It's going in the same house." 
Rick Mirer threw for three touchdowns this weekend, which set a career high for him in one game. One of those scor­ing connections was to tight end Derek Brown, a 55-yard catch that was Brown's longest reception of his career and his first touchdown of the ,season. Tony Smith continued the pass­ing success, catching a 29-yard strike for touchdown. Tight end Irv Smith finished off the aerial attack, catching a two-yard pass from a scrambling Mirer in the back of the endzone. 
The Irish defense held Michigan State standout Tico Duckett in check for 72 yards on 19 carries. Duckett, the Big Ten offensive player of the year last year, and the rest of the Spartan offense went 0 for 10 on third down conversions, al­lowing Notre Dame to control the clock for 38:55, and thus the game. 
Moreover, the Irish held MSU to 273 total yards on offense and allowed only them only 10 first downs. The strength of the Notre Dame ground game, combined with the fine play of the defense, meant that the Irish ran almost twice as many offensive plays as the Spartans, 
94-50.  
The  49  points  the  Irish  
scored  was  the  most  ever  
scored  against  a  Pedes­ 

coached Michigan State team, and the most the Spartans have allowed since their 197 6 con­test against Ohio State. 


Andrew McCioakeyflhe Observer 

running to the sidelines." 
The entire running game ig­nited in this contest, as the Irish used a variety of weapons to exploit the Michigan State defense. The Mack-truck-sized holes provided by the Irish of­fensive line allowed the Irish to gain 26 rushing first downs, and hold the ball for a little un­der 39 minutes. "We wore them down," said Holtz. "We returned to good old-fashioned football." All of the Irish running backs had great success against the Spartan defense. Tony Brooks scampered for 77 yards on 11 carries. Reggie Brooks carried the ball for 21 yards and a touchdown, his first, giving the Brooks brothers their first game with each scoring a touchdown. Sophomore Willie Clark showed his speed and maneuverability, sprinting for 56 yards and a touchdown. Both Clark and Reggie Brooks will see time returning kicks next week. The Irish also introduced a pair of promising running backs In Lee Becton and Ray Zellars. • Becton galloped for 57 yards, including an impressive 28 yard run. Zellars also had a 28 yard run, and ran for a total of 37 yards. Both of the young runners did cough up the ball though, a problem that Holtz wanted to correct. The only downside for the rushing department was the loss of captain Rodney Culver. Culver sprained an ankle, and it is not certain when he will return. 
STOP! 
Do not throw this paper away. 
Please recycle. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 16 The Observer Monday, September 23, 1991 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•For 
anyone Interested In trying out for the Notre Dame men's volleyball team, tryouts will be held on Sunday, Sept. 22 in the pit of the JACC at 1 p.m. for freshmen and seniors and at 3 p.m. for sophomores and juniors. If you have any questions, call Mike Flecker at 289-5311. 

•Ice 
hockey coaches are needed. The Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for students who would like to help coach young hockey players form the South Bend area. All those interested should contact Jackie McKew at 256-6839, or write the league office at P.O. Box 490, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

•ND 
Boxing Club: Practice for the Novice Tournament begins Monday, September 23. All interested students are invited to attend. Meet outside the boxing room at 4 p.m. The boxing room is located just inside gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. 

•Women's 
Ice Hockey: Anyone with or without hockey experience who can skate and is interested in playing should contact Molly at 283-2685. 

•Water 
polo team members must have their insurance forms in by Wednesday, September 25. Everyone must have this done before we can go to the Dayton Tournament on Friday, September 27. 


Agassi propels U.S. to Davis Cup semifinal win 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) -did on grass at Wimbledon, Andre Agassi, given the charge turning loose a savage serve­to save America's Davis Cup and-volley game, spitting to­team, thrived on the pressure ward hecklers and beating instead of choking under it Courier 6-4, 7-5, 6-4 to tie the Sunday and finished off series. Germany to put the United Agassi has had trouble coping States in the final against with pressure in the past, los­France. ing his third Grand Slam final 
Agassi dumped the burdens in the French Open in June he's been carrying in a year of against Courier and getting frustration as he blew away knocked out in the first round Carl-Uwe Steeb 6-2, 6-2, 6-3 to of the U.S. Open against Aaron give the defending champion Krickstein. 
U.S. team a 3-2 match victory But this was a different, more after Germany had scrambled determined Agassi, who used back from a 2-0 deficit. the pressure to raise his game 
Agassi and Jim Courier had against a skilled clay-court put the United States within player just as he had against one win of the fmals on Friday Stich in the first match. when they took their singles Agassi swept through the frrst matches. But Germany's four games against Steeb, Michael Stich, the Wimbledon breaking him twice at love, and champion, brought his team ran off five straight games in back by helping to win the dou­the second set to take a 5-1 bles on Saturday and then lead. From start to finish, upsetting Courier in the first Agassi was never broken and match Sunday. never in trouble. 
Stich cavorted on clay as he "This whole week I've been so 
FSU keeps hold on top ranking 
BY RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
For the third week in a row, the Florida State Seminoles remain perched atop the National Collegiate Sportswriter's Poll rankings of football teams. The Seminoles captured 24 of 31 first-place votes. 
Michigan, which will face FSU in Ann Arbor next week, stays at number two, capturing three nods for the top spot. Miami, tied for second last week, drops to third with two number-one votes. 
Washington and Oklahoma round out the top five spots. The final number-one vote went to seventh-ranked Clemson. 
Notre Dame was one of the big gainers, jumping to the eighth spot from no. 11. Syracuse, on the basis of an upset of Florida, moved up a whopping nine spots, going from 22nd to 13th, while Colorado jumped from 21st to 17th 
California, unranked last week, entered the list at 20, while Illinois and North Carolina entered the poll at nos. 24 and 25, respectively. 
focused," said Agassi, who dropped only 15 games in win­ning both matches in straight sets. "Each match I got ofT to a great start, and I just held to­gether mentally. Since I got beat at the Open, I've put in the work, and I feel this is a reflec­tion of that work." 
The United States will meet France, which swept Yugoslavia in the semifinals, for the Davis Cup in late Novembe.r in France. 
Stich's victory came amid passionate, often comical cheering by fans from both countries that turned nasty only once, when hecklers called out during a rally in the ninth game of the second set as Stich was going for balls. 
Courier held service after saving three breakpoints in that game, and as Stich left the 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 

court he turned and spit con­temptuously toward the fans from the middle of the court without hitting any of them. 
Stich, awkward, uncomfort­able and reluctant to charge the net in his loss to Agassi, re­turned to the more daring style that brought him the Wimbledon title. He got away with it even against the clay­loving Courier, the French Open champion who had beaten him on a similar court in the semi­finals in Paris. 
Making no concession to the slow and slippery nature of red clay that usually demands a baseline duel, Stich slammed 10 aces -several on second serves -hit more than twice as many more service winners and attacked the net repeatedly. Courier managed only four aces and rarely followed in his serves, preferring to rally from the baseline and come in only on short balls. 
When he wasn't booming shots, Stich showed the touch of a clay master with some soft, lovely drop shots that Courier chased but couldn't reach. 
Bolstered by a small but loud contingent of about 200 fans from Germany, Stich controlled the tempo of the match throughout after breaking Courier's first service in the opening set. 
"From that moment, when I broke him right away in the first set, I just felt comfortable," Stich said. "I had the feeling I was always on the top of the match. I was serving so well." 
"Today I said, 'Go for it,'" Stich said. "I think I got him down a bit when I began making aces with my second serve." 
Gf-Aworld of opportunityfor career development andpersonalgrowth 
• 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
World ofopportunity. 
An equal opportunity employer 



---r--~~--------­
Monday, September 23, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Jets look to reach new heights against 'da' Bears 
CIIICAGO (AP) -Coach Bruce Coslct said the New York Jets arc no longer satisfied merely to be playing well ani:! arc ready to move up to the next level. 
That's what they'll try to do Monday night against unde­feated Chicago in Soldier Field and if they succeed, it will not be because of a letdown by the Bears. 
"There will be no letdown," Chicago coach Mike Ditka said. "We're not looking past any­body or assuming we're better than anybody. If there's a let­down, it will be because of what the other team did, not because of the effort we're putting out." 
The Jets outgained the Buffalo Bills 388 yards to 304, con­trolled the ball for more than 40 minutes but lost 23-20. 
That left them 1-2 headed up against the Bears (3-0). 
"That game is history," Coslet said. "If we're thinking about it Monday night, we'll get killed, get toasted. They have to learn to deal with it and keep work­ing so it doesn't happen again." 
The last time these two teams met was in 1985 when the Bears won 19-6 on their way to the Super Bowl. 
The Bears have changed this year and the Jets know it. 
"They've mixed it up well lately," Coslet said. "These guys seem to run and pass well. They are getting out of being a run­oriented team." 
That may be true, but Ditka doesn't necessarily like it. The Bears are averaging 
179.7 yards passing to 97 yards rushing. They are ranked 20th in the league on offense and 18th on defense. 
"Those stats don't bother me now, but if they were to hold up that way over a period of 16 weeks, we'd have a problem. 
Pirates clinch NL East Title 
PITTSBUHGII (AP)-This 
time, the celebration can wait. 
Lust year, when the 
Pittsburgh Pirates won their 
first championship of any kind 
in 11 years, they carried 
manager Jim Leyland off the 
field in St. Louis and staged a 
rowdy clubhouse celebration 
before returning home to 
5,000 cheering fans. 
The clubhouse bash 
following Sunday's second 
title-clinching in as many 
seasons was more restrained, 
less emotional and less 
ecstatic. 
And that's just the way they 
wanted it. 
Last year, the Pirates finally had something to celebrate after bouncing back from years of lousy teams and last­place finishes to win the National League East. This year, they expected to win. 
They did, clinching with two weeks remaining in the regular season by beating the Philadelphia Phillies 2-1 Sunday. 
"We realized this was special 
after we did it last year, and 
we wanted to keep it going," 
Andy Van Slyke said. "I don't 
think we ever thought we 
wouldn't win it." 
"This is a great, this is a good feeling, but what we want to do is still undone," Barry Bonds said. "We had a chance to do what a lot of teams never get the opportunity to do, and that was do it again. We wanted another championship season." 
The magic number now is zero, but the Pirates say it's eight -four in the playoffs, four in the World Series. 
"We want it all, we want the whole package," Jay Bell said. "We want the playoffs, the World Series. Last year, I think we thought we can do it. Now we know we can do it." 
By winning, the Pirates not only clinched before their home fans -they wrapped it up last year in St. Louis -but they also kept from backing into the title. With a loss 
"Ufcoming Events 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 ROBERT L. HOLMES UPS Vooiting FIIOUity Fellow IIOd Prof•.., of ~y. t.nvllhily of """'-tw 
"THE PERSIAN GULF WAR IN LIGHT OF JUST WAR THEORY AND WESTERN IMPERIALISM" 
4:00 p.m. -Auditorium Heaburgh Center for Inti. Studies 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 DAVID B. CORTRIGHT liPS Voaiting FIIOUity Folow; 
for..,. ..ector of SANE/FREEZE 
"PEACE WORKS: PEACE MOVEMENT IMPACT DURING THE 1980s" 
12:15 • Conference Room 103 Hesburgh Center for Inti. Studies 
SEPTEMBER 27-28, 1991 Constructions of Reason: A Conference on the Work of Onora O'Neill and "Explorations of Kant's Practical Philosophy" 
Heaburgh Center Conference Ctr. Cosponsored by tiMI Deplll1m...t of Philooophy IIOd the Kroc Institute 
Sunday, Pittsburgh could have clinched on an off-day because St. Louis plays a doubleheader today while the Pirates are idle. 
"This was real sweet, doing it at home," Leyland said. "It was great last year to come home and see all those people at the airport, but this was fun." 
The Pirates mobbed each other briefly on the field, then adjourned to a shower room off their clubhouse for a brief, private party. Later, they lit victory cigars and cheered when pitcher Stan Belinda smashed a banana cream pie in the face of strength coach 
Warren Sipp. 
As usual, manager Jim Leyland displayed the most emotion, wiping away tears as he remembered taking over a last-place team in 1986 that had lost 104 games the year 
before.  He  also  had  kind  
words  for  the late  John  
Hallahan,  the  team's  

clubhouse manager for more than 30 years 
It's contrary to my philosophy," Ditka said. 
Ditka wants to get the running backs, Neal Anderson and Brad Muster, back in control of the game but the defenses keep stacking the line and daring the Bears to pass. 
So Jim Harbaugh has passed and passed well. He ranks third in the NFC with 45 completions in 69 attempts for 560 yards, four touchdowns and only one interception. 
"If they're going to stack the line, we won't be hard-headed," said Ditka about passing. "I wouldn't mind sitting back and 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
State started off with the ball 
after the intermission and im­
mediately began to move the 
ball. 

A 24-yd. strike to Hawkins 
was the key play as the 
Spartans drove to the Irish 44. 
Johnson went to the well once 
too often, though. Greg Davis 
made a leaping interception of 
a pass intended for Hawkins, 
and the Michigan State drive 
was stopped. 
The Brooks brothers helped 
the Irish move down the field 
for another score. Tony and 
Reggie Brooks combined for 34 
of the Irish's 72 yards on the drive, ending witli a two-yard TD pass to a wide-open lrv Smith. 
The Spartans were penalized for offsides on that play and for unsportsmanlike conduct on the point-after, meaning the Irish were kicking off from the Michigan State 45. That set the stage for some Notre Dame tricks, like an onside kick. 
"We may have given up a first down (if the Spartans gained 
~• Gladieux 
, _al TRAVEL~ 
Notre Dame's -leading ground gainer of 1968 ha~ gone to the air with International Specialist lndeborg Hildegard 

Eacultv Staff Students 
Lowest Available Fares Guaranteed Free Delivery and No Service Charge Call and compare 8:00AM-5:00PM MON-FRI '-10:00AM -1:00PM SAT 
234·6636 
-1518 Miami St. SOUTH BEND 46613 1-800-837-4523 
~lf®c.r!.~w ~©~~®~W Meeting 
Freshman, Sophomores, and Juniors interested in becoming a member of the Pre-Law Society should attend the general meeting on Tues., Sept. 24,-at 7 pm in the Cushing Auditorium. Dean Waddic-k and Professor Susan Vance will be on hand to speak. 
throwing the ball for 300 yards a game. I don't know if we're capable of doing that." 
The Jets seem to have better balance. They are eighth in of­fense and tied for 12th in de­fense. They are second in rush­ing in the league, led by Blair Thomas. 
Quarterback Ken O'Brien has just 50 completions in 89 at­tempts for 541 yards, one touchdown and three Intercep­tions. But the Chicago defense fears his big, rangy receivers, 6­foot-4 AI Toon and 6-3 Hob Moore. 
possession on the 33 instead of 
the 20, which is where they 
would have been had the Irish 
kicked· the ball out of the end­
zone for a touchback), but we 
have a chance to get the ball," 
said Holtz. 
And get the ball they did. Rod 

Smith finally recovered the ball 
for the Irish at the Notre Dame 
23. Four plays later Tony Brooks struggled into the end­zone to make the score 35-10, and the rout was on. 
The game started out on a 

less than positive note for the 
Irish, however. For the third 
straight game this year, the 
Notre Dame offense sputtered 
on the opening series. 
After getting to their 48-yd. 

line, Mirer attempted to throw a short pass over the middle, but it was intercepted by State's inside linebacker, Chuck Bullough. 
The Irish defense didn't allow the Spartans a first down until just before the first quarter ended, by which time Michigan State was in a 7-0 hole. State did get a field goal out of that drive, but the Irish came right back with Mirer hitting Tony Smith for the score on the next drive. 
Michigan State co·ach George Perles was understandably de­jected after the game. 
"There isn't a whole lot to say," said Perles, "That was the worst defeat in nine years (that Perles has been at MSU). The scoreboard says it all. 
"In the second half, they put it together, beat us, and beat us soundly." 
Holtz credited rugged prac­tices this past week for instill­ing a tough attitude in his charges. 
The coaching staff had the players "play until the whistle blows," said Holtz. "Unfortunately, I couldn't find 
..
mine." 
The Irish controlled the line 
of scrimmage, both offensively 
and defensively, which put 
them in good control of the 
game. 
"We're not used to people running the ball and controlling the clock," Perles said. 
Meanwhile, Irish quarterback Mirer had great success pass­ing due to the protection the of­fensive line gave him. 
"The guys up front gave me time," Mirer said. "There wasn't a lot of pass rush, and that takes a lot of pressure off me." 
Defensive tackle Troy Hidgley liked the way the defense played. 
"We want to play better each 
...
week. We played better than last week," he said. "We have to control the line of scrimmage." 

..--------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------·--,-----­
Monday, September 18, 1991 The Observer 
Women's golf sets new team record 
BY JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Against one of the toughest fields they will face all season, the Notre Dame women's golf team turned in a record break­ing performance at Michigan State's 1991 Spartan Invitational this weekend. 
After finishing last week's Illinois State Invitational with a 1,008 total, coach Tom Hanlon knew his team would have to improve to compete against the tough field assembled in East Lansing, but even he couldn't have expected the improvement his team made. 
"We were outstanding," Hanlon commented. "I'm so proud of our girls." 
Their 54-hole total of 949 broke the previous school 

Men's 1-H football kicks off with a bang 
BY GEORGE DOHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
LEAHY DMSION Alumni 24, Cavanaugh 6 
Dave Ludewig ran for two touchdowns and Jim Passinault passed for another as the Dawgs dominated Cavanaugh from start to rmish. 
Ludewig led the Dawgs on their opening drive, as he scored the first of his two touchdowns, Alumni's defense, led by defensive back Lou Delfra's two interceptions, never allowed Cavanaugh to get its offense into sync, supplying pressure from all sides of the defense. 
''I'm really happy with the way our offense performed," said Alumni coach Mark Gillespie. "On the other hand, our defense concerns me." 
Zahm 28, Stanford 13 
Chris Hammon threw two TD passes and Matt Seng ran for another as Zahm used a bal­anced attack to beat Stanford. 
Peter Corey had his way with the Stud secondary, catching TD passes of 50 and 20 yards and Rick Rios led the Zahm de­fense, with an interception re­turn for a touchdown early in the first half. 
Stanford was able to break the Zahm defense for two touchdowns, one coming on a 60 yard run, and the other on a long punt return, but it wasn't enough to overcome Zahm's high scoring attack. 
"Our offense played really well," said Zahm coach Kevin Casey. "The Stanford backs were really good, but our de­fense needs to improve." 
PARSEGHIAN DMSION 
Off-Campus 14, Dillon 0 The Crime scored two fourth quarter touchdowns to win a

.. 
defensive struggle over the Big Red and took the first step to­wards repeating as interhall champs. 
The game was scoreless over three quarters, before Crime quarterback Paul Novak threw a 30 yard touchdown pass. A late interception return for a touchdown concluded the scor­ing. 
Dillon's offense never got go­ing as the Crime defense didn't allow a flrst down and held the Big Red to negative yards in to­tal offense. 
Flanner 14, Grace 0 
Quarterback Clarke Warren threw for one TD and ran for another as Flanner stopped Grace and took an early lead in the Parseghian division stand­ings.

.. 
Early in the first half, Warren connected with receiver Scott McCarthy on a 20-yard pass to give Flanner a quick 7-0 lead. 

record by 22 shots. A second round total of 308 also set a new school record, eight shots better than the previous record set at last year's Spartan Invitational. Northern Illinois took the team title with a three­round score of 902 to earn its second consecutive victory. Defending champion Penn State rmished sixth at 939. 
"Our next objective is to break 300," said Hanlon. "It will take some good shooting, but we're not very far away." 
Notre Dame's senior captain Allison Wojnas tamed Michigan State's 5,916-yard layout with rounds of 78, 74 and 74 to fin­ish three shots out of the lead at 
226. N. Jeray of Northern Illinois took the individual medalist honors with a 223 to­tal after winning a playoff 
Warren then finished ofT Grace with a 1-yard plunge in the fourth quarter. 
Flanner's defensive backfield, and defensive end Mike . Da'Mato lead a tenacious at­ta·ck, which never allowed Grace to ever flirt with scoring. 
"Both our offensive line played exceptional today," said Warren. "The defense was ex­cellent, especially the DB's and Mike (Da'Mato)." 
ROCKNE DIVISION 
Carroll 12, St Ed's 6 

A long TD pass from Vermin quarterback Jack Hay and a short scoring run by Mike Bell in the fourth quarter proved to be too much for St. Ed's to overcome in a brutal defensive battle at Stepan field. 
The Carroll defense, led by Tom Sullivan, looked impres­sive in its opener by holding St. Ed's scoreless, until a 65-yard bomb to receiver James Scott ended the scoring drought. 
Fisher 7, Sorin 0 
A 1-yard run by Curtis Baker against teammate K. Hodge and 

T. Lindsey of Illinois State. 
Sophomore Chrissy Klein was next for the Irish, finishing at 240 after rounds of 80, 78 and 
82. Classmate Denise Paulin was close behind with a 241 to­tal, as was Alicia Murray who finished at 244. Freshman Katie Cooper followed rounds of 88 and 89 with a final round 80, the team's second best score of the tournament, to finish at 
257. Sophomore Jennifer Nigon rounded out the Irish lineup with a 273 total. 
The University of Illinois' Lady Northern Invitational in Champaign is next on the Irish slate before they travel to DeKalb, Illinois for the Northern Illinois University Invitational to round out the fall schedule. 
in the wanning moments of the game, proved to be the game winner as Fisher opened with a win over defending Rockne division champion Sorin. 
The game was a defensive battle until the Fisher offense got the ball at midfield with a little over three minutes to play. Quarterback Rick Ebert led a perfectly orchestrated drive, highlighted by a 20-yard dash by Baker, and a pass to wideout Renzy Smith which brought the Green Wave to the 2-yard line. After three unsuccessful attempts to score, Fisher found themselves facing a fourth and goal from the 1-yard line. Fisher was successful on its last attempt as Ebert pitched to Baker on the option for the score. 
"The defense looked great. Toni Huie did a great job call­ing the signals from the side­lines," said Ebert. "I am disap­pointed with our offense, we couldn't covert and we sput­tered on numerous drives." 
III 

FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS A SUMMER STUDENT NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Appiication Deadline: December 1, 1991. For more information contact: 


Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 1-800-247-8590 
1-507-255-4314 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equal opportunity educator and employer. 
page 18 
Women's volleyball romps 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame volleyball team ran its win streak to five yesterday afternoon by thumping Boston College 15­10, 15-5, 15-9 at the Joyce ACC. 
The Eagles (2-7) did not roll over and die in this match, but in the end, their youth and inexperience-eight of the 13 players on the roster are freshmen-did them in. Coming in reeling from being swept at a tournament hosted by Valparaiso and the recent loss of senior Alison Glovna for the year with a knee injury, they were no match for the Irish. 
"Playing a team like Notre Dame, we were lucky to come out as well as we did," Boston College coach Gary Gildea said. "Losing Alison really hurts us. She was our best overall hitter, and she's a leader as well. It was a tremendous loss." 
Notre Dame (6-1), mean­while, came into Sunday's affair red hot, having won the Southwest Missouri State Invitational last weekend, and the Irish picked up right where they left off against the Eagles. They opened up a quick 9-1 lead behind the serving of junior Alicia Turner and senior Katie Kavanaugh. 
But Boston College recov­ered from the early onslaught, and slowly chipped away at the Irish lead. At the same time, Notre Dame made three straight unforced errors, al­lowing the Eagles to string to­gether six consecutive points to get within 11-10. 
"My concern coming into this match was that I wanted the team to maintain its focus throughout, but several times, we slipped and didn't play sharp," said Irish coach 
For SL•nior Nursing Students 
-NURSINC­
HORIZO~S 
A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
November 1 & 2, 1991 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• Laughter: A Gift of Your Being to Light Up Dark Places • Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse • Enhancing Your Personal and Professional Image 
BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• Financial Planning • Critical Care Nurse Internship Program • Preparing for Your Job Search • Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't • State Boards: Are You Ready? • Healthcare in a Changing Environment • New Kid on the Block 
$10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 22, 1991 
Calll-800-545-0357 outside Rochester, or (507) 286-8579 for registration information and brochure.
ctYJ Nursing Horizons is sponso'ed by 
Mayo Center for Nursing 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903-6057 
Ma.lfu fmm,tdthm i~ '"' llflirmaliw 11flimr dlltlt'tflltJI ''l'lll"lllllitv t'lfllt'fllur ,,,., '"'''"''"'.,.· A Smttkt· fm•IIJstilulimr. · · 
Debbie Brown. "I was confi­dent we would come back and finish the game out, but I was disappointed that we did have that letdown." 
And after Boston College committed three unforced er­rors of its own, senior Chris Choquette put the game away with a vicious cross-court kill. 
"We're at the point right now where we can be up and they'll look at the scoreboard and think, 'Oh my God! We shouldn't be beating these people,' and we self-destruct," said Gildea. "That's something we have to break them of." 
The story in game two was the play of freshman Christy Peters. The Irish won 10 points on her serve in the game-including seven straight with Notre Dame ahead 8-5 to close out the game-and she also contributed three kills and two blocks. 
Peters has been one of many pleasant surprises for the Irish this season, and her improved play has resulted in more and more court time. 
"A really important thing for us is to make sure she continues to get playing time," Brown said. "She's just going to keep getting better and better." 
"It helps build your confi­dence," commented Peters about her increased playing time. "You feel like you're more a part of the team." 
In game three, Brown emp­tied the bench, allowing some of her part-time players to get some match experience. 
"The most important thing to come out of this match was that everybody got an oppor­tunity to play," Brown said. "We're going to be in some long matches in the future, and it's going to be important that people can come in off the bench and feel comfortable playing." 

Monday, September 23, 1991 The Observer page 20 
llEFAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPB.l.IICER JAY HOSLER CAI.VIt AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 



CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
ACROSS 
1 Chore 5 Senate employee 9 Goddess of the 
hearth 14 Butter substitute 15 Always 18 Muslim fa1th 17 Noisy gangster? 19 Ascend: climb 20 Bobolink 21 Egyptian solar 
deity 22 Island off NW 
Venezuela 25 Drift 26 Two sounds in 
one 
30 God waited on .by the Graces 31 Suffix with origin 32 Affirmative vote 35 Adage for a dumb blonde? 40 Pedal digit 41 Part of J E C 42 Food for Alysheba 43 Noisy native of Dhaka? 47 Prank so Gentleman, in Madrid 51 Kiln 52 Terse 57 Frenzied 511 Noisy Australian club? 

61 Gambling game 
62 One, in Germany 
63 Exchange premium 84 Bias 65 Happy 
66 Swabs 

DOWN 
1 Matador's victim 2 Opposite of 
apterous 3 Cult 40ahu's­
Head 5 Kind of firecracker &Where New Yorkers take the 
Fifth 7 Turn right &Goof 9 Strength; force 
10 Steep slope 11 List of candidates 12 Leftover cards 
after a deal 13 Revise 18 Verve 23 Famed teacher 
of the blind 24 Shakespeare's plays have five 25 Poi ingredient 

26 "Faust" finale 37 Container 27 You may dig this 38 Cgs units 28 Employ 39-Aiamos 29 Roleo roller 43 Nonthreatening 30 Erhard's therapy 44 Altarpiece or 32 A wife of Esau Italian port 33 Himalayan 45 Predestined 
humanoid 46 Former 34 Pulver's title: lightweight Abbr. champ 38 Alaska's-47 Grooming Islands implements 
48 Serve the purpose 411 President of 
Brazil: 1906-9 53 Famous miler 54 Shakespearean 
villain 55 Sassy lassie 58 These modify 
ids 58 Charpoy 59 Panhandle 80 Peanut 
byproduct 

Monday 
7 p.m. Film, "You Only Live Once," Annen berg Auditorium. 
9:15pm. Film, "Robin Hood," Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 
12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Coffee and Power: the Coffee Elites of El Salvador, Costa Rica, and Nicaragua." Room C­103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Delivered by Jeffery Paige, Faculty Fellow. 
MENU 
Turkey Broccoli Bake 
Pasta Bar 
Cheese and Rice Croquettes with Supreme Sauce 

TONIGHT EDUCATION OPEN HOUSE AJJ Secondary Minors and "WHEN YOU WISH UPON A STAR" those who are interested Sophomore Formal 6:30p.m. September 27 The Gathering Voices Series Presents Little Theater 9p.m.-1 a.m. A Multicultural Film Festival 
Dining HaJJ 

""A Glimpse into the World of
Tickets S10 

Women of Color··
On Sale Sept. 23-26 
Sept. 23, 25, & 26 Carrol1 7-1 Op.m. 
..
4:30-6:30 

Sept. 24 Science 105 7-1 Op.m.
In Residence HaJJs Sponsored by H.I.N.T. of SMC 
Sports 
page 20 Monday, September 23, 1991 
Notre Dame explodes against Michigan State 49-10 
Revitalized ground attack runs wild over Spartans. 
BY RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
For the second time this sea­son, Notre Dame unleashed an offensive assault unparalleled since last winter's war in the Middle East. And this trme it was the Michigan State Spartans who played the role of Iraq, getting pounded 49-10 by a-revitalized Irish squad. 
Both Michigan State and Notre Dame were on the re­bound, the Spartans after being shocked by Central Michigan, 20-3, and the Irish after being outplayed at Michigan, 24-14. 
Notre Dame's offense was on a roll, racking up 650 yards of offense (433 rushing, 217 passing) despite pulling starting quarterback Rick Mirer and most of the first team with just under four minutes left to play in the third period.] 
The Irish appeared to have wrapped up the game in the middle of the second quarter when Mirer threw two touch­down passes in a span of just over two minutes. 
After the Spartans made a 

field goal at the beginning of the second period, the Irish took possession at their own 32­yard line. Three plays later, Mirer and Tony Smith con­nected for a 23-yard gain on third and six. Notre Dame kept the ball on the ground, eating clock while moving the ball down to the Michigan State four-yard line. 
A clipping penalty cost the Irish 20 yards, back to the 29. On the next play, Mirer rolled right and threw back against the grain, hitting Tony Smith in the back of the endzone for an Irish touchdown that made the score 14-3 with the extra point. 
An inspired Notre Dame de­fense stopped Spartan running back Tico Duckett three straight plays, forcing MSU to punt. 
Notre Dame threw Michigan State a twist on the next series, opening up with a pass on first down. It wasn't a decision that Irish coach Lou Holtz would regret. 
Mirer hit tight end Derek Brown streaking down the sideline with a beautifully thrown ball. Brown gathered it 

• 
John Rock/The Observer 
Sophomore cornerback Tom Carter intercepts a Brad Johnson pass, 
killing a potential Michigan State drive. 
in at the 21-yd. line and raced in ror the score without break­ing stride. 
The Spartans still had a little bit of fight left in them however, and struck back to close the gap to 21-10 at the half. Michigan State picked up two quick first downs, moving to the Irish 48. 
Michigan State showed run on the next play, splitting out only one wide receiver. That one receiver, however, was all­American candidate Courtney Hawkins. 
Irish cornerback Tom Carter had Hawkins in man coverage, but Carter stumbled after Hawkins put a move to the in­side on him. Forty-eight yards later, Spartan quarterback Bret Johnson hit Hawkins for an MSU score. 
"I was concerned at half­time," said Holtz. "They seemed to be getting into a rhythm and we hadn't done much since they cut it to 21-10." 
Having won the coin toss and electing to defer their choice until the second half, Michigan 
see IRISH/ page 17 

R. Garr Schwarty/The Observer Junior tailback Reggie Brooks rambles for big yardage in the open field. Brooks scored the first touchdown of his career against the Spartans. 
The kind of dominance in the trenches this Saturday may have been a surprise to the 59,075 fans in Notre Dame Stadium, hut it certainly was no surprise to the Irish football team. After some of the toughest practices of the year, the ANTHONY KING Notre Dame running game Assistant Sports Editor was resurrected on the 
shoulders of Jerome Bettis_______ and the offensive line. After a sub-par rushing performance against Michigan, Coach Holtz was determined to run the game against Michigan State. The practices last week were very rough, especially for the offensive unit. "We challenged the offensive line this week, and they responded," said Holtz. "We tried to develop a rhythm, it (practice) was a little hit different." According to the Irish players, they were more than ready to play Saturday after the rough practice sessions. "It was down and dirty in the trenches," commented running back Reggie Brooks. "It was something we needed to do. He (Lou Holtz) felt it was time for us to show the offense we're 
capable of being." Blocking was the main stress in the practices. Holtz ran blocking drills such as one that required the players to block until the whistle blew, even if the play was over. "It (blocking) was stressed so much, that it was second nature when we went out on the field," said fullback Jerome Bettis. It was Bettis that shone particularly brightly in the Irish running arsenal. Bettis, a sophomore from Detroit, rumbled for 93 yards on 16 carries. In the first quarter Bettis converted a key fourth and one on the first Notre Dame scoring drive, hulling over left guard for three yards. A hip injury in the second quarter kept Bettis out for a series, but he returned later in the quarter. The injury obviously did not hamper his rushing ability, as he rolled for 52 second half yards, before being taken out in the third quarter, including a 20 yard dash up the middle in that quarter. Bettis attributes the success to the week of practice, where block­ing and the "north-south" running were focal points. "It was because Coach Holtz stressed running the ball so much," explained Bettis. "We had a 
see BACKS/ page 15 
... 
• 
Women's soccer handily defeats Michigan State 4-0 
By MIKE SCRUDATO scored first," Petrucelli added, 
the ball to Hartwig. She then p.m. at Alumni Field. It is the Sports Writer "At halftime, I stressed to the put the ball into an open net second game of a five game team that we could not sit on a from one yard out. homestand. 
The Notre Dame women's 1-0 lead." Overall, it was a solid per­"They are a physical team soccer team scored three sec­The team took Petrucelli's formance against a team with a high ranking that will be ond half goals to break open a advice and played a spirited Petrucelli believed was the best motivated to play. They sho).lld close game and kept their unde­second half in which they wore the Irish have played this sea­be a different kind of challenge feated season in tact with a 4-0 down the Spartan defense and son. The offense continued to for us," Petrucelli added. win over Michigan State on took advantage of their scoring play well; the Irish have scored The Irish could be slowed by Friday. opportunities. eleven goals in the last three some injuries. Margaret Jarc, a 
"I don't think that we played Thirteen minutes after Mego's games. The defense recorded starting defender who plays
that well, but we did what we goal, tri-captain Susie Zilvitis its fourth shutout of the year. well on both sides of the ball, had to do," Irish coach Chris scored her first goal of the Another important factor in has an injured toe, and Andrea Petrucelli said. "That is a sign season, .37th of her career, on a ROBIN MEGO the win was the play of the Kurek, another defensive of a good team." breakaway. She took a pass Freshman Jodi Hartwig got freshmen. Thompson had two starter, has a bruised thigh. 
The turning point in the game from Andrea Kurek, and then the Irish on the scoreboard with assists, Hartwig and Mego each One thing the Irish will not be was freshman Robin Mego's beat two Michigan State 13:28 left in the first half. The scored a goal, and Jill Matesic lacking is confidence. They are goal off Tiffany Thompson's defenders before putting a shot play was made by Alison Lester, started and played well on de­now 3-0-2 and received votes in corner kick with 19:41 left in past Spartan goalkeeper who brought the ball up and fense. the most recent ISAA national 
' the second half to give the Irish Andrea Gerbi. beat a Michigan State defender "The freshmen are starting to soccer poll. a 2-'0 lead. Until then, it was a The scoring barrage continued on the left side of the goal. come on for us. They are a "We are finally coming to­close, physical game. However, when Stephanie Porter scored Gerbi was expecting a shot and talented bunch," Petrucelli gether," Porter said. "It has now after the second goal the Irish her fifth goal in the last three committed to her. Instead of commented. Notre Dame will gotten to where we are verydominated. games on a shot from fifteen shooting, she passed into the take on Siena Heights, a tough comfortable playing together as 
"We did not let down after we yards out. middle, where Zilvitis deflected Division II squad, tomorrow at 4 a team." 






