


~~,w~~t .g.~. 
1442·1992 
SESQUICENTENNIAL 
SaintMa~:S Colleg~
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

~ VOL. XXIV NO. 35 
FRIDAY , OCTOBER 11, 1991

I 
I I -THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
f 

Special to The Observer 
A dedication ceremony for a Notre Dame sesquicentennial postal card will be held Tuesday, and the postcards and first-day-of-issue cancellations will be made available on campus. 
The ceremony for the card, which pictures the University's historic Main Building and golden dome, will be in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center at 10 a.m. Father Edward Malloy, president of the University, and U.S. Postal Service officials will participate. 
Cancellations will be available from 10:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the concourse of the Joyce A.C.C. Autographs of ceremony participants will also be available. 
Nine cents of the 50-cent postal card cost will go to Alumni Association community service projects. 
Postcards will be available in the Notre Dame post office from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. They will also be sold from 8 to 
10:30 a.m. and 1 to 3 p.m. at the following locations: a mo­bile trailer outside the post office, the Field House Mall, and the Alumni Senior Club. 
The Postal Service also will sell other items with the same artwork as that on the card at the Notre Dame post office from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and the J.A.C.C. concourse from 8 
a.m. to 3 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association will sell the cards at a "Sesquicentennial Station" in front of the Main Building. For 50 cents, customers can purchase a card and affix a 22-cent Knute Rockne stamp on the blank back side. A postal employee will then hand-cancel the stamp to preserve the front of the card. A message and address can then be added and the card can be mailed. The cancellation will feature a Notre Dame Sesquicentennial logo. 
Those who do not attend the ceremony can obtain cards with first-day postmarks by purchasing the Notre Dame card at any post office, self-addressing it and placing the card in a larger envelope addressed to: Customer Supplied Cards, Notre Dame Postal Card, Postmaster; P.O. Box 9998; Notre Dame, IN 46556.;;9991. The deadline is November 14. 

Clark stresses 
tenacity, work 
• Conference I page 5 
By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
"It's all about being the best at whatever you are," said former New Jersey high school principal Joe Clark, in his lecture last night advocating hard work, determination and tenacity as the means for self-ad­vancement. 
"Be sure that you are in control of your own destiny," said Clark. "If you end up being nothing don't blame the bureaucracy, the black man, the white man -blame yourself." 
Clark, now an assistant superintendent of schools, was principal of East Side High in 
see CLARKI page 6 
Saint Mary's freshmen hold run-off elections 
By AMY GREENWOOD SMC News Editor ] 
The Saint Mary's freshman class held its 
second run-off election for president and 
vice president last night. 
The class of 1995 elected Megan Zimmer 
as its president, and Heather Sterling as 
vice president. 
The Zimmer ticket won 54 percent of the 
vote with the Jean Powers/Jeanne DeVita 
ticket capturing 43 percent. The first run­
off held Oct. 2 resulted in an exact tie, 
making the second run-off necessary. 
Thirteen class representatives were also 
elected. Amy Altesleben, Renelle Baldwin, 
Meghan Boland, Becky Keane, Jennifer 
Kelley, Sara Klabacha, Christine McGowan, 
Shenna Mowery, Marisa Pflum, Tiffany 
Polydoris, Laura Sterba and Melissa Whelan 
will serve the freshman class for the 1991­
92 school year. 
The election for class representatives was also held twice. In the first election, no candidates received the 50 percent-plus-one vote required to win. 
"This situation was very unusual," said Lorraine Marucut, elections commissioner, "I am concerned that people do not realize the importance of class participation." 

Security enforces injunction against unlicensed shirt sales 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL T-shirts subject to confis­News Writer cation under the injunction bear ND trademarks without a Football fans hoping to avoid license from the University. the long lines and high prices at Such trademarks include the the Notre Dame Bookstore this Leprechaun, the University's weekend may have to go off­seal and the interlocking ND. 
Friday

campus in order to purchase The words Notre Dame and 
souvenir T-shirts. Fighting Irish are also con­3 p.m. Campus tour, departing from Statue 10:30 a.m. Glee club concert, JACC North This situation is due to the sidered to be University of Our Lady, Main Gate. Dome. 
current crackdown undertaken trademarks. 4:30 p.m. Marching band rehearsal, from 11 a.m. Shenanigans performance, JACC by ND Security/Police against Although unable to cite Washington Hall and steps of Main Building North Dome. the peddling of unlicensed T­precise figures. Faccenda to Green Field. 11 a.m. Band concert, Main Building steps. 
shirts. Security is enforcing an believes on-campus sales of 
7 p.m. Pep Rally, JACC Basketball Arena. 12:10 p.m. Pre-game performance, Stadium. 
injunction obtained in St. unlicensed T-Shirts have 
8:10p.m. "'The Crucible," Washington Hall. 12:35 p.m. Kickoff, Notre· Dame vs.
Joseph County Superior Court declined since the University Pittsburgh, Stadium. 
that allows ND to confiscate first obtained the injunction last Saturday 5 p.m. Vigil Mass~ Sacred Heart Church. 
unlicensed T-shirts offered for year. NO Security reports that approximately ten vendors have 9 a.m.-game time Alumni Hospitality 8:10p.m. "The Crucible,H Washington Hall. 
sale on-campus. The injunction was obtained had their T-shirts confiscated Center, JACC North Dome. through a recently enacted during this football season. 9:30 a.m. Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, Sunday federal law which allows for Those wishing to use ND Center for So dal Concerns. 6, 7, 8, 9:30 and 11 a.m. Mass, Crypt. 
more aggressive protection of trademarks legally must obtain 10 a.m. Porn Pon squad performance, JACC 8, 10, 11:45 a.m. Mass, Sacred Heart Church. 
licensed trademarks. according approval from the University's North Dome. 3:10 p.m. 'The Crucible," Washington Hall. 
to University General Counsel Licensing Committee and from 10:30 a.m. Pom Pon and Cheerleading 7:15 p.m. Sunday Vespers, Sacred HeartPhilip Faccenda. Champion Products Inc., the performance, in front of Bookstore. Church.
"The law came in response to widespread copyright see SHIRTS/ page 4 infringement," Faccenda said. 
~------------------------------------------------­
FQR!CAIT:  
Mostly cloudy  
with highs in mid  
60s. Cloudy  
Friday night with  
40 percent  
chance of  
showers  
Saturday.  
TEMPERATURES:  
City H L  
Athens n 63  
Atlanta 76 57  
Bertin 66 46  
Boston 68 52  
Chicago 66 42  
Dallas-Ft. Worth 91 53  
Denver 80 42  
Devo~ 58 38  
Honolulu 87 71  
Houston 88 53  
Indianapolis 69 54  
London 64 55  
Los Angeles 95 65  
Madrid 63 52  
M laml Beach 84 75  
Moscow 57 34  
....... •·-·• ·•· •••··  •  ·.· •. •  ·  New Orleans 8 1 52  
i <  .  ir  ;  i'  ....  ···········  .·  ..  . ..  .  ~="· gE  



page2 Friday, October 11, 1991
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Being a referee has its good points 
I'm not ashamed to admit it: I like being an interhall football ref. 
Now, before y'all go sending me to the funny farm, let me explain. 

First, I love sports (not that you couldn't have Rene Ferran guessed otherwise). I am Associate Sports not, however, the greatest Editor athlete, but I wanted to be ------­involved in some way. Refereeing seemed the perfect opportunity to be a part of the action without displaying my inability to play any sport well. Second, I'd like to think that I am good at what I do. It has taken me four years to get a grasp on all the rules and, more importantly, how and when to apply them. So when the two teams take the field, I hope my knowledge and experience contributes to a well-played game-which is what players should both expect and deserve. I also get a great feeling of satisfaction if I do a job well. Further, refereeing has provided me with skills which will last beyond college. Believe me, dealing with an unhappy coach, trying to explain to him/her my view while getting his/her passionate view in return, and getting him/her to calm down enough for the game to continue-these skills will last a lifetime. To me, a referee's most important function, besides enforcing the rules, is listening. You're never going to please both sides with a ruling. Coaches and players understand that their arguing isn't going to change your mind. All they want is a chance to vent their frustration, and a referee who isn't willing to listen is in for a long night. Now, don't get me wrong. I will admit that I have made some really bad calls in my life. A note to all coaches and players, however: don't bring any of them up with me. First off, I won't remember the particular instance you're describing. And secondly, I'll tell you right now, I'm not going to admit which were my bad calls. I think my biggest pet peeve is when someone comes up to me complaining about a call that happened in a game and says, "That call cost us the game." Wrong-it was the incompletion on fourth-and-one, the 12 runners stranded on base, the 25 turnovers that cost you the game. As a Little League coach in my hometown put it after one of my calls went against him, ..We never should have be.en in a position where your call made a difference." This coach played and coached in the NFL and WFL, and is considered one of the most successful youth sports coaches in Oregon. Obviously, there must be something to his philosophy that works. Finally, I think I can honestly say that in the four years I've refereed women's football, while I've had plenty of arguments, no one has ever held a grudge or hated me because of a dispute (well, okay, one person, but I won't name names). In fact, many of my friendships. on this campus are a result of refereeing. And isn't that the whole point of playing a sport-having fun? 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Thursday's Staff 
News Production Frank Rivera Peggy Crooks Paul Pearson Jeanne Blasi Steven Zavestos Jay Colucci 
Accent Shonda Wilson 

Irish Football
Fran Moyerr Kristin Costello Christina Ortiz 

IllustrationsSports 
Jake Frost Rene Ferran Dave Devine 
Scoreboard Rolando de Aguiar 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Systems Chris Caracciolo Harry Zembillas 
Circulation Bill O'Rourke Matt Novak 
VIewpoint Brian Staller Jason Thomas 
Irish Extra Kristin Costello 
Lab Tech Mary Hueckel 


:;il~E~tl:l:~t~f:~~;d~B~i;··~~:.c 
@1$91A~-w~~' ~~-i 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Nathandailed for meeting Arafat · 
• RAML, Israel -Peace activist Abie Nathan began serving an 18-month prison sentence Thursday for meeting PLO leader Yasser Arafat in violation of Israeli law. It was the second time he has gone to prison for meeting Arafat. He was twice convicted under a 1986 amendment to Israel's anti-terror law that prohibits meetings with members of terrorist groups. Israel considers the Palestine Liberation Organization a terrorist group. Nathan, who is best known for a trip to Cairo in 1966 to convince Egypt to make peace with Israel, said he has no intention of asking for parole. 
Two killed in sectarian violence 
• BELFAST-An outlawed Irish paramilitary group claimed responsibility for killing a pub patron Thursday. Hours later, a taxi drher was shot fatally in the head in possible retaliation. Two gunmen killed Harry Ward, 42, as he drank in the Diamond Jubilee pub, said the province's police force. Witnesses said Ward, a Protestant, apparently was chosen at random because the intended target was not in the pub at the time of the attack. The cabbie, whose acquaintances said he was Catholic, was shot by a lone gunman outside a north Belfast church, police said. The Irish People's Liberation Organization claimed responsibility in Ward's death. 
NATIONAL 
Blood ma~ be just chemistry 
OF INTEREST 
•Philippine and Hawaiian clubs will hold a tailgate
•Alcoholics Anonymous will have a closed meeting 
party Saturday, October 12 from 10-12:30 before the Pitt 
on Saturday at 9:30 a.m. in the Multipurpose Room of the 
game. Call Cesar at 283-1667 or Lisa at 283-4873 for
Center for Social Concerns. 
more information. 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/Septem~r 26 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 164,142,200 209.55 .. 1.60 
);;~illlliPL-S&P COMPOSITE 
• 380.55 i} 3.75 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,976.52 • 30.19 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD{} $ 2.20to $350.80/oz. 
SILVER... 10.9¢ to $4.108oz. 

•ln1884: 
Eleanor Roosevelt was born in New York City. 

•In 
1890: The Daughters of the American Revolution was founded in Washington D.C. 

• 
In 1932: The first political telecast in the U.S. took place as the Democratic National Committee sponsored a program from a CBS television studio in New York. 

• 
In 1962: Pope John XXIII convened the first session of the Roman Catholic Church's 21st Ecumenical Council, also known as Vatican II. 

•In 
1990: Octavio Paz was named the winner of the Nobel Prize for literature, the first Mexican writer to be honored. 


San Gennaro, they said. In a ceremony performed at Naples Cathedral since the 14th century, the 4-inch glass container is repeatedly turned upside down. The contents of the vial could be established only by opening it, the researchers wrote. 
• MIAI-Manuel Noriega's lawyers asked a federal judge to punish the U.S. Marshals Service for letting a list of defense witnesses fall into the prosecution's hands. In a motion filed Wednesday, defense attorney Jon May asked U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler to do so by 
n . hiring private process servers for Noriega. The witness list was somehow included with a subpoena given to Lewis Tambs, U.S. ambassador to Costa Rica in the mid-1980s. The defense said Tambs gave the names to the State Department, which then turned them over to the prosecution. Defense witness lists are sensitive in federal trials because -in contrast to state cases -prosecutors don't have to give their witness lists to the defense. 
INDIANA . 
Condoms sold on most lndtana colleges 
• INDIANAPOLIS-Condoms to protect against pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases have been made available on some college campuses in Indiana. Condoms have been available at the Bloomington campus for years, but in vending machines in residence halls just two years. Planned Parenthood of Central Indiana installed and maintains 300 condom machines at IV and other campuses, including DePauw University, Butler University, Franklin College, and now Ball State University. Condoms are not available for sale at the University of Notre Dame or Marian College, both Catholic institutions. Dennis Moore, a spokesman for Notre Dame, said the Roman Catholic Church teaches 
-----------------------------~···­

The Observer

Friday, October 11,1991 page 3 
Blakey: Justice plays role in free Cuba 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
News Writer 
Justice will eventually play a role in a free Cuba despite Cas­tro, according to Notre Dame Law Professor G. Robert Blakey. 
"The one thing truly on our side is time; he (Fidel Castro) cannot live forever," said Blakey Thursday at a confer­
ence  commemorating  the  
Cuban  Declaration  of  
Independence.  

He said Cubans can prosper in Cuba as Cuban Americans 
Ernest 
$CAR~P $TijP~P 
~ 
Evenings: 5:00 7:30 8:30 S.t.!Sun.: 1:00 3:00 5:00 9:00 

• Grazin I page 5 
prosper here m 1\menca. He added that the United States is going to have an opportunity to reconstruct the Cuban society. 
"If Cuba is to be restored, the law must separate politics from economics and religion," said Blakey. 
"Developing a limitation on government power is the ulti­mate and necessary step for the development of a free Cuba," said Blakey. 
Law exists to limit the gov­ernment, not the people, he said, and this limitation allows the people to be free economi-
Evenings: 5:30 7:30 9:30 S.t./Sun.: 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 
cally, religiously and politically. If the concept of using crimi nal law as an instrument o state policy is restored to Cuba then it is possible to restore free society, Blakey said. 
"Law involves not only rules, 
he said, "but important ideal behind the techniques and th rules themselves." 
Blakey said we must procee with the reconstruction of Cub while taking its best interest into consideration and not jus in a manner that Americans se fit. 
"Laws must be establishe 
see CUBA I page 

VJE'RE FIGHTING Fa< YOUR LIFE 
Amencan. e.ar . · 
. H tv·~· 
Assoc1ahon · 

Kmiec discusses 'old' issue of desegregation 
By ALICIA REALE News Writer 
This week the Supreme Court opened its new session, consid­ering the old issue of school de­segregation. 
The key issue in this case, Freeman vs. Pitts, is "Does a school district have a continu­ing obligation to adjust the ra­cial composition of its student assignments because of popula­tion shifts that have nothing whatsoever to do with past dis­crimination?" said Douglas Kmiec, professor of law at Notre Dame and former deputy assistant attorney general. 
Since the landmark case of Brown vs. the Board of Educa­tion of Topeka, school systems have been under federal court supervision not only to stop the abhorrent practice of discrimi­nation but also to remake the school system into a "unitary" one, according to Kmiec. 
Freeman vs. Pitts centers on the DeKalb County, Ga., school district which "no longer dis­criminates, but because of pri­vate choices in the housing market and employment sector has an imbalanced racial popu­lation within the school dis­trict," said Kmiec. 
Robert Freeman is superin­tendent of the DeKalb County school system, representing the school board and Willie Eugene Pitts is a student represented by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). 
According to Kmiec, the ACLU claims that the federal courts should continue to supervise public schools until there is a perfect balance. They claim that Pitts is harmed by being 
The Hyde Park Booksellers Present the Hu.manitiesPLUS 
BOOK FAIR 

in the Midweses Largest Center for Books! 
Chicago's leading booksellers invite you to browse through the newest titles in anincredible range of academic fields, as well as a one-of-a-kind collection of the fmest used, rare, and out-of-print books. 
The University of Chicago • The Reynolds Club 5706 South University Avenue • Chicago. 
lllinois Saturday. October 19. 1991 10:00 AM -5:00 PM 
more infonnation call Carol See at 
enrolled in a school that doesn't have perfect racial balance. 
"If the federal judges continue to operate the school system until there is an appropriate balance, even though racial imbalance is not because of discrimination," said Kmiec, "then federal judges will run them if not forever, then for a very long time." 
"There is no way to prevent housing choices which in effect thwart racial balances in indi­vidual schools," he said. 
According to Kmiec this shows that school desegrega­tion is still a major issue in the 
U.S. "More and more educa­tional money spent on math programs and other new op­portunities for students is spent on lawyers' fees. Deseg­regation litigation is very costly," he said. 
"It is time for the court to realistically recognize its limits. Its power does not include telling people what neighbor­hood to live in or what job to take. As a consequence the law can only do so much to create an integrated society." 
Once public discrimination ends, the federal court supervi­sion of schools must also end, Kmiec said. 
"The constitution requires that public schools make deci­sions on a color blind basis," he said. 
Kmiec stated that if the court recognizes its limits and that the constitution doesn't give them the "authority to try to remake the world" they wili rule in favor of the school dis-
see SUPREME I page 5 

EGEIVEl1 
HAWN rEm· 

ROBIN WILLIAMS JEFF BRIDGES [!!] 
Evenings: 4:00 7:00 9:30 S.l/Sun.: 1:45 4:30 
Evenings: 5:00 8:00 S.t./Sun.: 2:00 5:00 8:00 Evenings: 4:45 7:15 8:45 S.t.JSunJ 1:30 4:45 7:15 8:45 
All St-ews 

___...,.
lvw~ l £()u~f~r $3.50 
2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090 Belore6 pm 

WEDNESDAY, NO 8:00PM 
MORRIS CIVIC ACIDITORI 
ON SALE TODAY 
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE CIVIC AUDITORIUM BOX OFFICE AND ALL THE USUAL MORRIS CIVIC CENTER TICKET LOCATIONS 
CHARGE BY PHONE: 
219/284-9190 
. \ 


• , I l -. I J ~ 
. l..l 
l 


The Observer 

page 4 Friday, October 11,1991 

Yeltsin returns home after 17 day absence 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian leader Boris Yeltsin returned home late Thursday after a 17­day absence from the capital during which his government was swept by feuding and uncertainty over economic reform. 
Hours before Yeltsin's return. his deputy complained he had repeatedly been unable to reach his boss, who with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev occupies the top leadership of the fractious Soviet Union. 
Yeltsin had been in the Black Sea resort of Sochi since late September recuperating from a heart condition. His office gave no further information about his trip. 
Tass, which reported Yeltsin's return at Moscow's Vnukovo 2 airport, said he was expected to attend the Russian parliament session Friday. It would be his first appearance in the parliament since an extraordinary session convened during the coup. 
Yeltsin .won praise for standing up to the coup plotters when Gorbachev was briefly ousted. But in his absence, the Russian government was beset by internal conflicts, and it lost the momentum for change that had been gained in the wake of the failed Aug. 18-21 hard-line putsch against Gorbachev. 
Speculation about the reason for Yeltsin 's absence arose when then-Prime Minister Ivan Silayev complained about presidential decrees passed by Yeltsin that gave him power over most Soviet government functions on Russian territory. 
Officials demanded that some of the decrees be repealed. Silayev then resigned to concentrate on his duties as chief of a new committee to manage the economy during transition to a confederation. 
Saint Mary's yearbooks 
Saint Mary's senior Katrina Lentycha, yearbook editor-in-chief, distributes yearbooks to senior Suzanne Sanders (left) and junior Ellen McQuillan Thursday in Haggar Parlor. 
sell products during football 

Cuba

SHirts 
weekends is extended only to dormitories and student continued from page 3 continued from page 1 
organizations. ND students, who serve as a 
that rightly reflect Cuba's con­

major market for unlicensed T­Champion Products Inc., the shirts, are upset about the sensus," said Blakey. "The University's licensing agent. T­restrictions placed on their largest problem we face is to shirts and other items that establish in their lives what it is
sale. 
receive approval must meet like to live in a lawful society
"With so much crime going University standards for on around here its stupid to be quality. They must also so concerned about T-shirts,.. demonstrate strong nationwide said one student. sales potential, according to However, Faccenda argues 
Read 

Associate General Counsel that such restrictions are Carol Kaesebier. necessary since ownership of a 
Paige Smoron's 

"You can't get a licence for a trademark can be lost if product that will only be sold unauthorized use is not 
column every

on-campus," Kaesebier said. prevented.Vendors in possession of "Our approach (to protecting 
third Wednesday 

licensed T-Shirts can still be trademarks)," said Faccenda, cited for trespassing if they "is no different from that of any attempt to sell their wares on­other trademark owner." in Accent. campus without authorization. Nancy Jacox, an assistant to the Director of Student Activities, says permission to 


WEEKEND . WHEELS 
ROUTE MAP 
Ml.IN LIBRARY I I BULLA 
J 
1

CIRCLE CIRCLE 
"2:> OJ
OITJ {I]J 
VANESS~ 
JUNIPER 
EDISON 

/ ---ill/'
> 

w -< / 
SOUlHBEND 
-~ 
AVE
-< 

__... 
~s-­
0 
w 

CORBY
!!= ill
·0 
>
z 
0 

m0 w CEDAR
r 
I 

WEEKEND WHEELS offers ~ and ~ transportauon from select off-campus locations every Friday and Saturday night, with the exception of breaks and finals week, from 12:00 midnight to 3:00a.m. The bus runs as follows: 
I) Campus View Apartments (South entrance only on Willis): 12:00 12:30 1:00 1:30 2:00 2:30 
2) Turtle Creek (Comer of Vaness behind Video Watch): 12:02 12:32 1:02 1:32 2:02 2:32 
3) The Linebacker Lounge (South Bend Ave. side): 
12:04  12:34  1:04  1:34  2:04  2:34  
4) Five Comers (Across from The Commons):  
12:11  12:41  1:11  1:41  2:11  2:41  
5) Lafayette Square (Comer of Eddy and Cedar ­ North of complex ):  
12:14  12:44  1:14  1:44  2:14  2:44  
6) Club 23 (Notre Dame Ave. side):  
12:18  12:48  1:18  1:48  2:18  2:48  
7) Main Circle (Drop off only):  
12:21  12:51  1:21  1:51  2:21  2:51  
8) Library Circle (Drop off only):  
12:23  12:53  1:23  1:53  2:23  2:53  

You must show Notre Dame or St. Mary's I.D *Sponsored by Hall Presidents' Council* 

where economics~ politics, and 
"Take this limited govern­
religion are all separate." 
ment back, and Cuba will not only become free, but will stay
Cuban American lawyers have free," said Blakey. drastically changed their atti­tudes regarding a limited gov­
The Cuban American Union of 
ernment and they will never go 
Student Advocates (CAUSA)
back to their previous ways of 
sponsored the conference to 
thinking, he said. Blakey said observe the anniversary of the there is hope to restore a free 
1868 Cuban Declaration of In-
Cuba. 
MARi~JOLD MAI~KET 
lET US PREPARE. YOUR TAIL6ATE PICNIC. so YOU CAN ENJoy THE GAME! 
GRAPE~ClEVELAJ'.JD 272·1922 

Friday, October 11,1991 The Observer page 5 
Transition to democracy needs preparation according to Grazin 
By CARA ECKMAN 
News Writer 
The key to a successful tran­sition from a communist regime to a pluralistic democracy is preparation, said Igor Grazin, visiting professor at Notre Dame Law School and former member of the Supreme Soviet. 
During a lecture entitled "Baltic Independence: Re-::·.m­mendations for Cuba, ' Grazm outlined the major obstacles Estonia faces as it struggles to establish democratic institu­tions. He emphasized that his intent was not to offer recom­mendations, but to allow those planning for the. rec~mstruction of Cuba to anticipate the prob­lems they will face. 
"We must be extremely care­ful when we try to use directly the experience of another coun­try," he said, pointing out the cultural and historical differ­ences which influence a people's understanding of national political life. 
The principle obstacle to the establishment of democracy in Estonia was the naive belief that democratic change could 

Supreme 
continued from page 3 
trict. 
However, after the court of appeals decision, the ACLU contested the facts and records which proved that the school district was free of discrimina­tion. The ACLU contends that 

fi and fi MOSIC specializing in CD s. imports & hard-to-finds. issued a free catalog. Send SASE for yoan. fi&fi. PO Box 369. Keansburg. tt) 07734 
·;-, 

WILL BE TAKEN IN THE STADIUM 
OCTOBER 13 @ 12:00 NOON 
FOLLOWING THE PICTURE, 

THERE WILL BE FREE FOOD AT 
-


ALUMNI -SENIOR CLUB 

• 

be implemented immediately, said Grazin. 
"What we were not prepared for was the inevitability of a certain transitional period be­tween communism and democ­racy," he said. 
During this transitional pe­riod, Estonia struggled because it lacked the democratic mech­anisms needed to replace the ousted communist structure. 
.. Elected democratic leaders without the support of bureau­cratic apparatus are helpless," said Grazin. 
Frequently, democratic re­form is initiated by popular fronts, which tend to disinte­grate rapidly, according to Grazin. In reference to the popular front movement in his native Estonia, Grazin said, "We all had our own vision, but we were unable to produce a joint constructive program." 
Stable political party systems must replace popular fronts during this transitional period, asserted Grazin. Newly develop­ing democracies are threatened by an overabundance of politi­cal parties, he said, citing the example of Russia which cur­rently has over five hundred 
the trial court is in error to conclude that all public discrimination had been eliminated in the DeKalb county school system. 
Thus, according to Kmiec, the Supreme Court has two choices in their ruling. The Court can either tell the ACLU it is too late to argue the facts, and accept the facts in record, or if they political parties. 
"Splitting into too many frac­tions, or into fractions that don't want to speak to each other, may become extremely dangerous," said Grazin. 
As numerous political parties vie for support, the Communist Party remains the largest and strongest party, according to Grazin. 
Gra7iu said that developing demoancies face numerous problems even after the demo­cratic legal institutions have been established. Clashes be­tween ethnic groups and "witch hunts" for former communist leaders are difficulties which plague former communist countries, he said. 
In addition, former commu­nist countries must resolve the problems associated with the restoration of private property. An equitable compromise must be developed which recognizes the claims of both current and former owners, said Grazin. 
The lecture, held in the Notr~ Dame Law School courtroom, was part of an all day confer­ence, "Preparing for Cuba's Re­construction: Lessons in Demo­cratic Institution Building," 
are unable to reach a con­clusion due to the fact dis­agreement, they could return the case to the lower courts to clarify the record. 
Kmiec said the case will ei­ther be a landmark, "a modern interpretation of Brown vs. Board of Education 40 years later, or the case will in essence be a non-starter." 
School system "brain dead"; says ex-=Orincipal Joe Clark 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
The American education system is "brain dead" according to New Jersey high school principal Joe Clark. 
It is also a "cesspool of mediocrity and incompetence," which can be improved only by making public schools competitive, he said in a pr•::;;s conference Thursday. 
Clark, who was depicted in the movie "Lean On Me," ad­dressed the present state of American education and his ideas for improvement. 
"The American educational system is weak, whi((h results in a weakened workforce, standard of living, international competitiveness and democracy," Clark said. The solution is found in no longer maintaining the present status quo, he added. 
"If you want something, take it away from those who have it -that's America," said Clark. 
This theory is the basis of his views on individual motivation and public education. He called public education the "largest incinerator of taxpayers' dol­lars" and said tax money should be taken from the bu­reacrats and given to the con­sumers, in this case the parents and students. 
According to Clark, educa­tion is the only entity in America which is not competitive. He said parents should be able to choose the school their children attend as incentive for dysfunctional schools to either improve or go bankrupt. Choice is available to upper and middle class families now, but redistribution of tax dollars is necessary to improve inner city schools, he said. 
Clark said that present solu­tions aimed towards 

Joe Clark 
minorities, such as affirmative action and quota systems, only offer "blankets and excuses." These programs result in "mismatched" students in colleges or jobs where they lack the skills to compete, he said. 
According to Clark, minorities in general, .and specifically blacks, need "equal playing fipld, not preferential treatment." 
Proper allocation of re­sources and financing should be the immediate goals of education instead of integrating and bussing black students, said Clark. He did say, however, that segregation is "illegal, bad, and immoral." 
"Don't tell me I have to sit next to a white person in order to learn to read and write," he added. 
According to Clark, schools already know the conditions under which students learn best: structure and discipline, dedication of both students and parents, and clearly defined goals and aims. 

Under these conditions, said Clark, schools can fight ~ the eroding work ethic and declining expectations which have led to the "brain dead" condition of American 
. schools. 

St. Ed-w-ard's Hall Players Sign-ups for Auditions Friday, Oct. 11th-18th Rm. 215 of St. Ed's 
FROM THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
~~-'·~ 

LOST HORIZONS brings you: Beautiful handknit sweaters; hats; gloves; sturdy, colorful, handwoven Tibetan bags; unique Nepali jewelry and art object; and unique Tibetan wool clothing 
When: October 7th-12th 9am-5pm Where: Lafortune Student Center Sorin #36 Sponsored By: Student Activities 
.. · · r -~ + • -. '·"'' ,. ... · 
page 6 The Observer Friday, October 11,1991 
Fired postal worker kills former supervisor, three others 
! RIDGEWOOD, N.J. {AP) -A 
l 
fired postal worker armed with a machine gun, grenades and a samurai sword went on a ram­page Thursday, killing four 
people, including a former su­l pervisor who had accused him of harassment, police said. 
l 
Joseph Harris killed the woman and her boyfriend at their home in Wayne, then went to the Ridgewood post office where he killed two mail han­dlers as they arrived for work, authorities said. 
He surrendered there after a 4 1/2-hour standoff during which he set off two small ex­plosives, police said. An explo­sive booby-trap was found at his rented room in Paterson in northern New Jersey west of New York City. 
"In my opinion, considering the way he was armed ... he in­tended to kill more people," said Ridgewood Police Chief Frank Milliken. 
Harris, 35, was arraigned on four counts of murder, two of attempted murder, two of at­tempted kidnapping, and charges of possessing automatic weapons and explosives. Bail was set at $1 million. 
Hands and feet shackled, Harris shook his head and smiled as the charges were read. He blurted out "It's wrong!" and "I didn't shoot!" 

before being ordered to be si­lent. 
Harris' former supervisor, Carol Ott, 30, was found dead in her home about 10 miles fnun Ridgewood, along with Cornelius Kasten Jr., who lived with her. Police checked the house when Ott failed to report to work. 
Ott was partly disrobed and had three deep stab wounds in her back, possibly caused by the sword, said Passaic County Prosecutor Ronald Fava. He said Ott's hands and arms were cut and there was blood in an upstairs bedroom, indicating she had struggled with her killer. 
Joseph. VanderPaauw, 59, of Prospect Park, and Donald McNaught, 63, of Pompton Lakes, were found dead in the post office basement after Har­ris' arrest, Bergen County Prosecutor John Fahy said. 
Clark· 
continued from page 1 

the slums of Patterson, N.J., where his policies inspired the movie "Lean on Me." 
He battled the school's crime and drug problems by taking a stiff disciplinary stance, enforc­ing rules with a megaphone-and baseball bat. Those who vio­lated his rules were expelled. 
Such actions earned him the nickname "Crazy Joe" and ha­rassment from many oppo­nents. He said that he has been attacked by "adversarial forces who had the combined brain power of an amoeba," but, "he's still here." 
According to Clark, contro­versy has surrounded all suc­cessful enterprises. "There is no correlation between produc­tivity and tranquility," he said. 
Clark discussed discrimina­tion and race relations and said that it is "time for us to come together as one" and end this period of "squabbling nationali­ties." 
"We have become a sick peo­ple, judging others by the size of their lips and their noses, the texture of their hair -that's sick," he said. 
Clark would like to see a soci­ety which communicates truth­fully instead of hiding behind grins and the "politically cor­rect." 
"I do not want your sympathy, your sensitivity," said Clark. "I just want to be treated justly and fairly in this society." 
Clark said that affirmative action is essentially a conde­scending program which tells blacks that they cannot do something for themselves. 
He called it a "system of fraud, bovine balderdash," which has done nothing for the disadvantaged. Affirmative action and similar quota pro­grams have only resulted in a victimization process which does not teach skills, motivate or educate, he said. 
The only way he sees blacks can improve their situation in America's competitive system is to help themselves. 
"Take whatever you can from the others," he said. 
The ex-principal added that In order to improve public accountability for their pro­America is not flawless, but the schools, Clark advocates the grams, said Clark. American system provides the opportunity for parental choice Clark ended on a note of per­means for success. "If you can't in deciding where their children sonal motivation. make it here, you can't make it attend school. Schools need "Young people," he said, "it's anywhere," according to Clark. competition in order to lead to all about being the best." 

$6.99 for a Large One Item Pizza 
Expires October 17, 1991 
Don't Forget Our 
$10 Meal Deal! 
---1!1 . Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
232-2499 



A NEW 7RADI,.ION BAS BEGUN 7iE "7EN,.GA,.E" PAR,.Y 17 @arioi'o 
EVERYONE IS WELCOME'Jh,.Iii,«hfor.tllfr" 
NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH vs PITTSBURGH PANTHERS FOOD*BEVERAGES*MUSIC*TV* AND NO COVER CHARGE 
OCT 11, FRI: 4 PM-MIDNIGHT OCT 12, SAT: 10 AM-MIDNIGHT 
PLUS 

FINE DINING IN OUR RISTORANTE 
1412 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN (219) 232-4244 Regular Hours: 4 -11, Sunday 4-9, Closed Monday 


Friday, October 11,1991 


CLASS 
continued from page 9 
Go Walsh Footballl The ref's may have laughed at us before, but boy they look like fool's nowl! Great Games this week! Let's go all the Way!!! 
Kirsten and LaVig, hope you recover for the game! love, me 
(better late than never...) RANDOM QUOTES FROM THE MORRIS INN 326 PARTY: "It's a split squad: half are gay and half are straight." "Chris, if he makes his tatonka charge tonight, he's going in your bed." "Hold that pose. One more shot." "Okay, who's doing THIS vodka shot with me?" "Mr. Caruso. this is the front desk ..." 
JOHN KEARNEY, A few points to ponder on your birthday. 1) If stupidity were a tort would judicial immunity protect Rehnquist? 2) Would Linda marry you were your car not red? 3) Were Kmiec's first words natural law. property, or naturally property law? 
Happy Birthday. 
*
*
*
* 
*
*
* 
*
* 
Information

* 
*

* Systems *
* *
* Management *
* *
* *
* *
* We're looking for a few highly motivated people *
* *
* *
* with a stong background in computer related *
* *
* disciplines (CS, IS, MIS, EE) who want a career * 
* *
* 
in Information Systems Management. *
* 
*

* *
* *
* If you're the kind of person who's interested in * 
* *
* * 
rotational assignments, exposure to senior
* * 
* *
* management, structured classroom development, *
* 
*

* and you like the idea of having input into the * 
* *
* direction of your career, the ACCENT Program *
* * 
* may be the right opportunity for you. *
* *
* * 
* *
* *
* We'll be on campus for: *
* *
* *
* *
* * 
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* *
* * 

*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
* 
The Observer 


NORTON, or the whipping boy See if you can follow me here. Don't start something you can't finish. Can I help you with that coffee? THE LAMA 
!!!!CAPTAIN JAMES KIRK!!!! Happy 22nd Birthday 
Old Man!! Get ready to start loosing some hair-BALDY. Try to avoid passing out under other people's beds and Food fights involv1ng bananas. Hey get a city map of Ann Arbor and Quit drooling on yourself. 
ATTENTION SCHOLASTIC NERDS: YOU PEOPLE ARE NO COMPETITION­IN PRINT OR ON THE FOOTBALL FIELD. WE'RE GOING TO WHOOP YOU SO. HARD THAT YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO PRINT ANOTHER ISSUE UNTIL THE FOOTBALL ISSUE (THEN AGAIN, YOU NEVER DO ANYWAY, DO YOU.) MR. MITCHELL, WE WILL BURY YOU. LOVE, THE BIG OH 
P.S. THE GIPPER IS A DORK. 
ATTENTION DWEEBS OF WVFI: IF YOU WERE A NEWSPAPER, NO ONE WOULD READ YOU. WE ARE GOING TO CRUSH YOU SO HARD EVEN AN FM TRANSMITTER WON'T BE ABLE TO TRANSMIT YOU TO THE HOSPITAL. GET A LIFE AND STOP PLAYING WITH YOUR MIKES. LOVE, THE BIG OH 
P.S. YOU MAKE U93 SOUND GOOD. 
* 
*
* 

CAREER OPPORTUNITIES ** 
*
*
*
* 


*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*.¥. 
page 7 


If you see news happening call 239-5303 and let us know. 

a;;.,;pa;,;;jjgl..,;e~8~-----------------------Th..:..:.:.:e:...O.:::::.b=.:se:.:rv..:..e:::r__________________Friday, October 11, 1991 

l 
l 
! We are writing to affirm our conviction that Notre Dame ought to become a safer place for those in it who are addressing questions about their sexual orientations.l ~· Our intention is not to start another cycle of polemics in The Observer, but to offer 
i ~ 
some help to the vulnerable. 
! The imperative here arises from the most basic human rights. Lesbian, gay, and l bisexual members of our community should not have to live in fear. They should not have to fear harassment, the impositions of self-hatred, infringements ofI intellectual liberty, the loss of employment, physical violence, or sexual abuse.
! 
I Notre Dame is not always a place where human diversity is comfortably tolerated, 
[ 
much less fully protected. As members of the staff and faculty, we undertake to make the parts of the university in which we work more open to persons of diverse sexual orientation. And we urge every member of the community to strive to enact surer safeguards for the community as a whole. 
Craig Adcock (Art, Art History & Design), Joan Aldous (Sociology), Charlotte Ames (University Libraries), Kitty Arnold (Career & Placement Services), Peri E. Arnold (Government), Linda Austern (Program of Liberal Studies), Charlene Avallone (English), Reginald F. Bain (Communication & Theatre), Ernest J. Bartell, c.s.c (Economics), Willis E. Bartlett (Psychology), Joseph Bauer (Law School), Laura Bayard (University Libraries), Esmee Cromie Bellalta (Architecture), Jaime J. Bellalta (Architecture), James 0. Bellis (Anthropology), Joanne Bessler (University Libraries), Harvey A. Bender (Biological Sciences), Kathleen Biddick (History), Joseph Blenkinsopp (Theology), Mario Borelli (Mathematics), John G. Borkowski (Psychology), Calvin M. Bower (Music), Sunny K. Boyd (Biological Sciences), Douglas E. Bradley (Snite Museum), Joan F. Brennecke (Chemical Engineering), John K. Brooks-Leonard (Center for Pastoral Liturgy), Gerald F. Bruns (English), Bruce A. Bunker (Physics), David Burrell, c.s.c. (Philosophy/Theology), Joseph A. Buttigieg (English), Linda S. Buyer (Psychology), John Cavadini (Theology), Michael Chetcuti (Chemistry & Biochemistry), Robert R. Coleman (Art, Art History & Design), Sally Coleman (Counseling Center), Regina Coil, c.s.j. (Theology), Austin I. Collins, c.s.c. (Art, Art History & Design), Ava P. Collins (Gender Studies), James M. Collins (Communication & Theatre), Frank Connolly (Mathematics), Charles Craypo (Economics), Roberto DaMatta (Anthropology), Michael R. DePaul (Philosophy), Jean Dibble (Art, Art History & Design), Sue A. Dietl (University Libraries), Bernard Doering (Romance Languages), William J. Dohar, c.s.c. (History), Jay P. Dolan (History), Rita Donley (Counseling Center), Dennis P. Doordan (Architecture), Gregory Dowd (History), Alan Dowty (Government & International Studies), Edward D. English (Medieval Institute), Percival Everett (English), Stephen M. Fallon (Program of Liberal Studies), Kenneth Featherstone (Architecture), Elizabeth P. Forbis (Classical & Oriental Languages), Michael Francis (Government & International Studies), Miguel A. Franco (Counseling Center), Dolores M. Frese (English), Sylvia Frost (University Libraries), Laura Sue Fuderer (University Libraries), Isamu Fukuchi (Classical & Oriental Languages), Patrick D. Gaffney, c.s.c. (Anthropology), Sonia Gemes (English), Teresa Ghilarducci (Economics), Jennifer Glass (Sociology), Kenneth Grant (Mathematics), Kimberley A. Gray (Civil Engineering), Richard Gray (Art, Art History & Design), Gary Gutting (Philosophy), David S. Hachen, Jr. (Sociology), Christopher Hamlin (History), Robert 
G. Hayes (Chemistry), Stephen Hayes (University Libraries), Len Hickman (Counseling Center), Paula Higgins (Music), Davide A. Hill (Chemical Engineering), Alan Howard (Mathematics), Roger F. Jacobs (Law Library), Thomas Jemielity (English), Paul Johnson (Music), Mark Jordan (Medieval Institute), Sophia K. Jordan (University Libraries), J. B. Kennedy (Philosophy), Annemarie K. Keinath (Accountancy), Douglas Kinsey (Art, Art History & Design), Julia F. Knight (Mathematics), Eileen Kolman (Freshman Year of Studies), Michael J. Kremer (Philosophy), William Kremer (Art, Art History & Design), Alan D. Krieger (University Libraries), Theresa M. Krier (English), William J. Krier (English), Karl Kronstein (Mathematics), Blake Leyerle (Theology), Louise Litzinger (Freshman Year of Studies), Robert J. Lordi (English), Edward H. Lorenz (Economics), John Lucey (Aerospace & Mechanical Engineering), Michael A. Lutes (University Libraries), Scott Mainwaring (Government & International Studies), Edward Manier (Philosophy), Jerry J. Marley (College of Engineering), Lawrence C. Marsh (Economics), Michele M. Martin (Freshman Year of Studies), Patrick I. Martin (Romance Languages), Gloria-Jean Masciarotte (English), Richard A. McCormick, s.j. (Theology), Thomas McDermott, c.s.c. (Campus Ministry), William D. McGlinn (Physics), Vaughn R. McKim (Philosophy), Don McNeill, c.s.c. (Center for Social Concerns), Thomas V. Merluzzi (Psychology), Mark D. Meyerson (History), Robert R. Miller (University Libraries), Nathan D. Mitchell (Center for Pastoral Liturgy), Carol Ann Mooney (Law School), Jeannette Morgenroth-Sheerin (University Press/Program of Liberal Studies), Martin F. Murphy (Anthropology), Dian Murray, Alven Neiman (A&L Core Course), Kathie E. Newman (College of Science), Sharon O'Brien (Government & International Studies), Maria Rosa Olivera-Williams (Romance Languages), William O'Rourke (English), Erskine Peters (English), James Peterson (Communication & Theatre), Teresa Godwin Phelps (Law), Anand Pillay (Mathematics), Carolyn R. Plummer (Music), Dean A. Porter (Snite Museum), Jean Porter (Theology), James H. Powell (Graduate School), Kathleen Pyne (Art, Art History & Design), Philip L. Quinn (Philosophy), Hilary Radner (Communication & Theatre), William Ramsey (Philosophy), Paul A. Rathburn (English), James E. Robinson (English), Charles M. Rosenberg (Art, Art History & Design), Kathleen Royer (Center for Social Concerns), Ken 
D. Sauer (Electrical Engineering), W. Robert Scheidt (Chemistry & Biochemistry), Samuel Shapiro (History), Daniel J. Sheerin (Classical & Oriental Languages), Robert M. Slabey (English), J. E. Smithburn (Law), Donald Sniegowski (English), James P. Sterba (Philosophy), Richard Stevens (Art, Art History & Design), Marsha Stevenson (University Libraries), Adolph L. Soens, Jr. (English), Thomas R. Swartz (Economics), William Tageson (Psychology), Kern D. Trembath (Theology), Barbara M. Turpin (Graduate School), Eugene C. Ulrich (Theology), Patrick W. Utz (Counseling Center), Robert Vacca (Classical & Oriental Languages), Chris Vanden Bossche (English), John Van Engen (Medieval Institute), Peter Walshe (Government & International Studies), James Walton (English), Joseph Wawrykow (Theology), J. Robert Wegs (History), Kathleen Maas Weigert (Center for Social Concerns), John Welle (Romance Languages), James F. White (Theology), Richard Williams (Sociology), Lynne Womiak (Government & International Studies), Frederick D. Wright (Black Studies), Susan L. Youens (Music), Lorenzo A. Zeugner, Jr. (University Libraries). 
Friday, October 11, 1991 The Observer page 9 

CLASS 
continued from page 15 
I need 2 GA's for USC! Please call Amy at 2706 if you can help! I am the Lizard King and I can do anything. 
You say, uh, soops too haht? 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
IPERSONALS 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 
FAST EASY INCOME! EARN 100'S WEEKLY STUFFING ENVELOPES. SEND SELF­ADDRESSED STAMPED ENVELOPE TO: FAST INCOME P.O. BOX 641517 CHICAGO, IL 60664-1517 
SENTENCED TO A PAPER TERM? Trying to beef up a meatless resume? We can help with all sorts of editorial services. 
IDEAS INTO INK 
288-3508 
I 
All Night Vigil at the Grotto (to save John McKee's soul) 
Sunday, October 12th, 11PM B.Y.O.B. 
CLUB 23 & VIC'S SUBS 
are now open from 11 am to 3 am The Only Alternative 
L1ve Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone : 234-4015 
I need 2 GAs to Pitt! If you want to sell call X1253 
stronger than burt 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY. 
KATIE JONES 
IT'S TIME FOR YOUR FIRST BEER, YOU UTILE LUSH. LOVE, BILLY 
NEEDED: ride to Purdue this Fri. or Sat. Oct.11-12 will help pay for gas please call x4943 Karen 
Need 1 or 2 Navy GAs Bridget X3778 
Ay whaddya say there Homey boy, why don't we get us some a dem pic-a-nic baskets? 

AMSTER! KRATMIESTEA! We'll take care of the little things, you please get well soon!!!!! We miss you!!! Hurry home!!! 
Pussquez, 

6-0,6-0. Revenge is the only motivation. Victory is my reward. Humiliation is your reality. 
Quinn 

Hey everybody, Quinn's got a quarter. 
hey nit 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am. Eastern time. Train and jum~ the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
Hey. freshmen, who's gettin' the doughnuts? A little O.J. would wash them down nicely as well. 
Karen Good luck on GRE's Love, Your Prep Room Partner Nicole 
ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth & love. Can provide financial security & education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim 1-800-456-2656. 
Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23 Every Tuesday in October SEAMAISiN 

SPAINGBREAK SAILING BAHAMAS 48ft. Luxury Yachts Groups of Six Seven Days Barefoot Sailing The 
Bahamas. As Low as $488.00 


THE POINTE 
...-....._........,_--...-.
••..nuvavuv.uv...
........... 
At SAINt JOSEPH 
AnliNTION GRADUATE STUDENTS: 
1 bedroom apartments starting at $465 
2 bedroom apartments starting at $595 Everything you are looking for in a luxury apartment: 
Fall elze washer & dryer Fatly equipped partJ roo11 Wall to wall carpetlat alld filii ldtcbea Floor to ceWa1 bay wlndo1n O.&door pool ud •ua·c~ect H~ted. covered ,........, BxerciMroo• 
Ceramic tiled batM Teullce~~r.. Collftllleat bw traMporiadea to Notre Dame 
287.2684 
9-6 pm Moll. Frl 1D-SpmSat 
Apartmfllts fhatStaad A·p·a·r·t ln•dleilNl 
Second Set of Prints FREE ! 
EVERYDAY 
Next day processing & printing of 35mm color negative film, in by 10:00 am back by 11:00 am next day. 
Also Same Day or 1 hour Rush* 
processing of ALL E-6 slide film ! 
A wide variety of 35mm film~ for sal~j-\:'
' " ,, #i .,,.,... . 
... .. -·-.. 
'--:·~-. ··.· . -. ', -~~:----->::k{
Check out outprices an<to,tqer sei'Vices ! · 
..·..•.... ,;; . .. .. ',f:;__ ·:: *(·i~-~ . .

• additional charge for rush ~l'Vlce 
·. Universitf~'g£ N<itre D~e· CenterforContil'luing Education, Rm 13 .· Notre Dame, IN 46556 219 • 239 • 7630 

$30,000 BEFORE YOU GRADUATE 
The Navy offers you, as a qualified college student, the chance to earn up to $30,000 during your junior and senior years. And you never have to put on a Navy uniform until after graduation. No drills, no summer obligations. In the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program you'll get your start in nuclear power where nuclear power started. In the Navy. After you graduate, you'll get six months of graduate level engineering education in Orlando, Florida, plus six months of hands-on engineering training at a nuclear reactor trainer•••and more. Just meet these requirements: 
• 
Have completed sophomore year, majoring in engineering, math, science, or chemistry. 

• 
Have a minimum 3.3 GPA (4.0 sc·ale) 

• 
Have completed amathematics sequence through integral calculus. 

• 
Be a United states citizen, no more than 2S1/2 years old at time of commissioning. 

• 
Meet Navy's physical standards 


Call our Indianapolis office Toll Free 
at 1-800-553-1147 
NAVY OFFICER You and the Navy.
Full Speed Ahead. 

255-6344 

JFIEIJJILJMIJ)lE 
ILA\ Edison Rd. just 
East of Grape. in St.Andrews Plaza 
* 
Authentic Philly Cheesesteaks &·Hoagies! 

* 
Dorm party? -Order hoagies by the foot! 

* 
No Sunday dorm food? Join us for a great breakfast, lunch or dinner! 

* 
Delivery from 11:00 AM to 2:00 PM & 


5:00 PM to 8:00 PM 
BRING THIS AD TO STORE FOR $1.00 DISCOUNT ON ANY CHEESESTEAK, HOAGIE OR EQUAL SANDWICH!!! 
FOR DESSERT: REAL N.Y. CHEESECAKE W/TOPPINGS!! 
each Including Cabin and Meals. Call Anytime. 
1-800-999-7245 (SAIL) 

••ATTN: NY AND NJ"" Ll Bus wNCA has seats avail. We'll also stop in NJ. Lv 10/19 rtn10/25 only $11 0. Reserve NOW! Joni 3793 Janice 2639 
TODAY IS THE DAY.. ­HAPPY BIRTHDAY! (ONLY 6 WEEKS)!!! 

Would anyone like to buy a round trip ticket to San Antonio? Call Cris at x 4892 
GO SIEGFRIED SLAMMERS! YOU CAN DO IT­BEAT P.W.!!! 

SENIORS: It's your last chance to do something about being sick of dining hall food and the boring conversations with lower classmen that accompany such meals. Join a Senior Rap Up Group and enjoy delicious home-cooked meals and stimulating conversations! 
Deadline to sign up is today at the 
esc. 
JESUS IS LOST/STOLEN 
A 3-d picture of Jesus is missing and my A.A. is pissed. Return it to 316 Flanner-no questions asked-and I will be spared. God wants to go home, please help Him. 
see Class I page 7 

Lower the numbers 
and raise the odds. 
Controlling your blood pressure can reduce your risk of heart disease. 

t
ftAmerlcanHearfV Association 

-"'--; ....... < -~ ~
• 

I. 
~' 






Viewpoint 
page 10 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ••••••••.......•...••..Monica Yant Advertising Manager •..•.•Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor•••.••••••..•.•.••Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •..•.... Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••...•.......•• David Dieteman Production Manager ........• ; .•Jay Colucci Accent Editor•••••••..••..••.••••John O'Brien Systems Manager ...•....•...••.. Mark Sloan Photo Editor •••.•••..••Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..••..••.•.•••••.•.••Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor •••.......•.Emily Willett Controller •............•.....•. Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Pro-Life 'fanatics' are fighting for a righteous cause 
Dear Editor: defended. Among us they are lated human beings and explain where He is leading them. Very make poor choices, and the 
I have been reading Observer the most poor, the most needy, to those appalled by the reality few human beings could lead a consequences are not punish­Viewpoint articles on the Right­the most oppressed, the most that "this child, who is covered selfless conquest on their own, ments, but chances to learn to-Life/Pro-choice debate for the weak, and the most innocent. with blood, gasping for air and without the help and support of from our mistakes and to grow past few weeks and I am The unborn cannot cry out for trying to breathe, he is not God. Their movement is not in spiritual faith. disturbed by the inferences and help, and modern technology fighting for his life. In fact, he convenient or conducive to their I am not insensitive to a criticisms of Operation Rescue has verified that they feel pain is not a human being at all. No, lives. Their lives are disrupted woman who is experiencing an and the people involved in it. and fight to survive during an he is merely a product of because they have the heart unplanned pregnancy, nor to 
Operation Rescue is an orga­abortion. conception -a clump of tissue." and soul to suffer for what is the inconvenience to her life. In nization of people who firmly Nobody wants to discuss these Father Robert Griffin wrote, right. fact, I feel badly for a woman believe that an abortion is an "scientific finding." Out of "Even by the good will of other Matthew 5:10 Blessed are who has had an abortion and act of murder. Their views are sight, out of mind. People are Catholic pro-lifers is eroded by those who are persecuted be­experiences the post-abortion not fanatical. Rescuers block comfortable with the idea of the trouble-makers, desperate cause of righteousness, for depression and life-long guilt the entrances to abortion clinics abortion as long as they don't for attention as moral cru­theirs is the kingdom of heaven. and trauma. I feel badly for the in attempt to save human lives. have to see or hear about its saders." (The Observer, Sept. Other "fanatics who dis­woman who has had an After which they are arrested, realities. Nobody wants to 20) Father Griffin said he obeyed civil law are; Corrie ten abortion and because of it is and usually fined. think about beautiful, perfectly­would be "happy" to see the Boom -who housed and cared unable to conceive and bear 
They are not making money formed babies torn apart limb­overturn of Roe vs. Wade, yet for the Jews during Hitler's another child. I am sensitive to off their efforts. They are not by-limb in their mothers' womb he criticizes people who are reign, members of the Under­the child who begins life with making friends. Rescuers are or born alive and left to die in a taking action. ground railroad who helped the wonder of a beating heart trying to make an impression bucket of formaldehyde. Operation Rescuers and other slaves gain their freedom, Chi­and the potential for greatness, on a society that sits back and It sounds like Nazi Germany, pro-lifers are all fighting, in one nese Christians who teach their but loses his life for no other allows "another way out of re­doesn't it? People do not want way or another, to restore children the word of God, even reason than "inconvenience." sponsibility" without actually to view abortion as a new form sanctity to human life. Differ­though this is illegal, Soviet There is no easy solution to a considering the costs (human of legalized genocide taking ent people are called by God in Christians who are considered crisis pregnancy. Abortion is lives) or the consequences place in 1991 America. different ways to participate in "enemies of the state" because merely a tradeoff. The gain is (devalue of human life). Pro-choice advocates call this movement. they share their faith with nine months of freedom. The 
Rescuers are getting arrested people "fanatics" for distribut­The difference between these others, Bible smugglers, etc ... loss is a human life. Adoption is because they draw no distinc­ing pictures of abortion rem­people and Father Griffin is that I'm tired of watching Ameri­an emotionally difficult, yet tion in value between the ages nants of human life. These while Father Griffin would cans begging to be left in the rewarding option. The options and stages of human develop­photos shouldn't bother these merely be "happy" if Roe vs. dark, rather than facing the are not nearly as important as ment. They are barring the en­people. These people who cry Wade were overturned, Opera­truth about this situation. the nature of the choice -"Do trances to abortion clinics to out "choice" should stand up for tion Rescuers will not rest until Abortion is yet another scape­you choose life?" protect the most fragile mem­what they believe in. it is. goat we have found to shield us Jessica Ziembroski bers of our race. Pro-choice advocates should Rescuers have prayed to God from the consequences of poor Pasquerilla East 
The unborn deserves to be defend these pictures of muti-for the answers, and this is choices. As human beings, we October 1, 1991 
Lyons votes to adopt resolution and to end intolerance 
Dear Editor: the pressing need for the this end we have written and Notre Dame . . . _ national origin, handicap, 
The Lyons Hall community acceptance of every individual passed the following And in order to promote an and/or sexual orientation. recently held an open forum in our residential community. resolution: actively supportive community In passing this resolution we with Michael Vore discussing Many in our residence ex­RESOLUTION OF SAFE are creating an environment homosexual discrimination on pressed concerns about the HAVEN STANDING We, as members of Lyons Hall, where all may live at peace campus. We would like to vague nature of Michael's pro­Lyons Hall declare our residence to be a with their individuality. thank Michael for taking the posal and about its exclusive October 2, 1991 Safe Haven. We encourage all dorms to time to share his perspective concerns. While we feel it nec­In accordance with the We understand a Safe Haven continue to discuss, evaluate, on the Safe Haven issue. essary to address the homo­University of Notre Dame's as a community which wel­and perhaps reconsider their 
Because of his openness, a sexual discrimination issue, Discrimination and comes and does not discrimi­positions on the Safe Haven healthy discussion and an we also feel it necessary to Harassment Policy ... nate against any member of issue. otherwise uninformed commu­make a statement about In response to the concerns the community on the basis of The Women of Lyons Hall nity became more aware of discrimination in general. To regarding homosexuality at her race, religion, beliefs, Oct. 2, 1991 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
weu., 
1HANK9FOR 
ANOI<AY 
TIMe, 8.{). ... 
NOPRIJ&EM. "BOY,~ lATe. 
M!NOIFIU$ 
~caJCH?" 
THAT'S 50 LAMe, 8. 0. f Ya.J ~y THINK I'O FAl-l­FOR THAT OtO ROUT!Nf3.? · 
/ 
YOU0/0 ONa.JR FIRST 
OA7!f-. 
YeARS AGO. 

I 010? I 
aJ/:U,I

[;QJ1Re­
61Jf£6!T'O
MfM.Bf3R 
~OKAY,
7HAT. aot?f) 
7Hfi.J ...

OFHCWOR? 
'He who passively accepts evil is as much involved with it as he who helps perpetrate it.' 
Martin Luther King 

Bow down and submit to: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Friday, October t1, 1991 

Viewpoint 
page 11 
Lawrence J. Bradley 
Guest Columnist 
In an ad published by The 
Observer on Oct. 1,1991 the 
Office of Campus Ministry spoke 
of the "need to be consciously 
open to new values. new 
insights. and new cultures and 
ways of life" and the im­
portance "for all of us to be­
come freer and more peaceful 
in our own choices by becoming 
more open to the gifts of 
others." 
I urge my faculty colleagues to join with me in support of these sentiments by adopting Michael Yore's "Safe Haven" initiative and declaring ou·r classrooms "Safe Havens" for all individu­als regardless of their sexual orientation. 
It is incumbent upon us as the group within the university community most directly re­sponsible for the education of its student constituency to do whatever we can do to combat the homophobia which per­vades not only American society but also our Notre Dame com­munity. 
Our gay and lesbian neigh­bors, friends and relatives have learned the hard way that ho­mophobia kills. It not only de­stroys the spirit but it also takes the lives of many of our best and brightest. The spectacle of gay and lesbian bashing which has become ever more evident in recent years is only the tip of the iceberg. 
Witness the role played by homophobia in the alarming growth of teen suicide. Approximately one-third of such suicides is attributable to problems associated with sex­ual orientation. Ostracized, harassed, violently abused both verbally and physically because of the perception that they are or may be homosexual. some choose to end their lives. 
Others, so infected with the virus of homophobia that they think of themselves as unnatu­ral monsters when they recog­nize the futility of trying to change the sexual orientation with which nature has endowed 
LE IIERS TO THE EDITOR 
them, choose death because 
they have been led to believe 
that they are unworthy of life. 
Witness also the thousands, 
perhaps even millions, of AIDS 
victims -gay and straight, past, 
present, and future -who might 
have been spared the ravages ·of this dreadful disease if the government had acted more quickly to combat it when it first appeared on the American scene. 
Instead, most politicians, 
fearful of becoming targets of 
the ignorant, hate-filled, irra­
tional rantings of the most ex­
treme homophobes among us 
who were gleefully and blas­
phemously proclaiming AIDS to 
be God's chosen instrument to 
punish gays, chose to look the 
other way. As the realization 
has dawned, all too slowly, that 
AIDS also threatens heterosex­
uals, these same homphobic ex­
tremists now seek to portray its 
gay victims as villains re­
sponsible for its spread. 
Conveniently forgetful of their own culpability on this regard, they.choose to ignore the early, solitary education campaigns taken by the gay community at considerable effort and expense in the face of considerable ho­mophobic opposition to combat the spread of AIDS. 
Unfortunately, our university community is not free from homophobia. Witness the un­willingness of a number of hall councils to declare, or even se­riously consider declaring, their dormitories "Safe Havens" for homosexual residents and for the discussion of homosexuality. 
Witness also the paranoid fear of homosexuality that has so engulfed our Office of Student Affairs. Not content with denying the recognition that justice demands be accorded to GLND/SMC . not content with the willingness of its leaders to include in all its ads a statement disclaiming any implication of official recogni­tion, The Vice-President for Student Affairs now seeks to conceal its very existence. Note the irrational absurdity of this policy. 
The Internal Revenue Service 

recognizes GLND/SMC as an 
organization to which tax-de­
ductible charitable contribu­
tions can be made. The Notre 
Dame branch of the U.S. Postal 
Service recognizes its existence 
by allowing it to lease a post­
office box. 
Surely, by now, almost every­one at Notre Dame is aware of its existence. Nevertheless, the Office of Student Affairs is so fearful that its existence might be implies that it has prohibited ads in The Observer that "give the appearance or semblance" of a11 organization. 
Witness, finally, the irrational, homophobic ravage of Paul Peralez in the Sept. 23, 1991 is­sue of The Observer. Mr. Peralez urges our gay and les­bian leaders to work to help the community to understand ho­mosexuals. 
However, he fails to explain how this laudable goal -which, incidentally, is a major goal of GLND/SMC -can be achieved in the face of administrative cen­sorship designed to thwart ev­ery effort by that organization to reach out to the community at large via the university­funded campus media. 
He then, equates the "Safe Haven" outreach alternative with the unsafe and dangerous, clandestine and anonymous sexual activities that take place in certain public restrooms both on and off campus. 
Apparently, he here succumbs to the myth that so terrifies homophobes, namely the irra­tional belief that whenever and wherever homosexuals congre­gate sexual orgies inevitably uL~~.....,..._,does not happen when 
heterosexuals congregate. 
Why, other than homophobia, 
would anyone assume that it 
happens with homosexuals? 
Mr. Peralez refers to the re­
stroom phenomenon, which he 
so graphically depicts, as a 
"wart" on "the face of gay sub­
culture." Yet, he fails to per­
ceive that the wart is the~prod­
uct of the very virus that his 
misguided (if not deliberately 
deceptive) epistle exudes. 
It is homophobia that drives individuals to such places and to such depths of loneliness and depression. Deprived of the opportunity available to heterosexuals to form openly­monogamous legal relation­ships, fearful that any close, continuous domestic relation­ship with a member of the same sex will expose their sexual ori­entation, terrified of the rejec­tion and hostility that would greet such exposure, perhaps themselves do infected with the virus of homophobia that they have little or no self esteem, is it any wonder that few individ­uals resort to such activities? 
The phenomenon should evoke compassion, not scorn and hostility. It should promote recognition that homophobia is a pernicious evil that destroys the spirit. It clearly should not be used, as in the Peralez epistle. to further heighten the level of the very homophobia that causes it. 
Mr. Peralez urges gays and lesbians to celebrate their sexu­ality in the privacy of their bed­chambers not in our law cham­bers. In doing so he is com­pletely blind to the fact that just five years ago the U.S. Supreme Court upheld as constitutional a Georgia statute which allowed the Atlanta police to arrest an individual in his bedroom for doing just that (Bowers v. Hardwick, 478 US 186, 92 L.Ed. 2d 140, 106 S.Ct. 2841). 
Witness the penultimate, irra­tionality of the Peralez assertion that "gays and lesbians are suppressed because they are vocal and public." 
Homosexuals were not burned 
at the stake a few centuries ago 
because they were vocal and 
public; nor were they sent to 
Nazi concentration camps and 
gas chambers just fifty years 
ago for being vocal and public. 
The Stonewall Riots of 1969 
which initiated the modern era 
of gay and lesbian activism 
were the result of police ha­
rassment, not its cause. It 
should come as no surprise that 
homophobic extremists (often 
so lacking in self esteem that 
they can build themselves up 
only by seeking to tear others 
down) howl ever more loudly 
when they see the myths and 
stereotypes that support their 
sick views being slowly chipped 
away. That surely is no reason 
to halt the only process 
whereby enlightenment and 
acceptance can be truly 
achieved. 
Let us, as faculty, join hands with the rational administrators who are willing to assist GLND/SMC. Let us join hands with open-minded, humane stu­dents who are willing to pro­claim their dormitories "Safe Havens." Let us join hands with those officially-recognized organizations that are willing to sponsor discussions of ho­mosexuality and homophobia. Let us declare our classrooms "Safe Havens." 
Obviously, steps such as these will not immediately and by themselves change the minds and hearts of everyone. However, they will help speed the process. Let us all heed the ancient Chinese proverb which reminds us that even a journey of a thousand miles begins with one step and proceeds one step at a time. Hopefully, at the end of our thousand miles even in­dividuals as dense as Mr. Peralez and our Vice-President for Student Affairs will see the light. 
Lawrence J. Bradley, holds J.D., M.A., and Ph. D. degrees from the University, and is an Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Management Department 

All Knott residents are valued, welcome 
Successes in 20th century 
Dear Editor: 
Given the increased campus­wide concern regarding the status of gays and lesbians in the Notre Dame family, we, the women of Knott Hall. feel a need to voice our own views in the matter. This letter is not meant to address the issue of sexual expression; it is, rather, intended to address the individual worth of each person within the Knott Hall community. 
We affirm the value of every human person, without regard 
' 

to race, religion, age, gender or sexual orientation. We believe that every woman at Knott Hall brings to the community of our dorm, as well as to the broader university community, unique gifts which only she can bring. 
We feel that one's sexual orientation does not affect one's ability to be a caring member of the community. We wish that all residents of our dorm know that we are grateful for their presence here in Knott. 
We feel that this statement is made in the spirit of Christianity, following Jesus' living example of caring for all people, especially the marginalized and the socially unaccepted. 
We hereby publicly acknowledge and affirm the right of all persons, regardless of sexual orientation, to reside comfortably in Knott Hall. 
The Residents of Knott Hall Oct. 7, 1991 

Dear Editor: 
With almost 91 percent of the century gone, it is now time to look back on what worked and what didn't. Throughout the century we pave fought, changed, progressed, re­gressed, loved, but .above all we have survived.. To commemorate those who made these events happen, here are (in order), the worst and least successful policies, events. institutions, ideologies, etc.• of the 20th century: 
Successes 
1. 
Containment 

2. 
The Marshall Plan 


3. 
Democracy 

4. 
Capitalism 


5. The Grand Alliance 1941­45 
6. 
The New Deal 

7. 
The United Nations Failures 


1. 
Communism/Socialism 

2. 
Appeasement 

3. 
The League of Nations 

4. 
The Vietnam War 

5. 
The New Orderffhe Greater 

East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere 

6. 
Laissez-Faire Trade Policies 

7. 
Dictatorships 


Jeffrey O'Donneii/Grace Hall Oct. 8, 1991 
' 
J 
'\ 
,( 
r IJ
'! 
f 
I 
f 
f 
r 
ll 
I 
') 
OCTOBER 11-13



Jus 
By PAIGE SMORON 
Ass1stant Accent Ed1tor 
Jf 11\1~;;e:[i::!ts.
kilts." 
Captain 
Chris Woods 
tries to 
dispel misconceptions about the Irish Guard whenever possible 

By TIM ROGERS 
Accent Wnter 
A 
stone's throw from the fabled Notre Dame Stadium, there sits a lesser­known, more humble football field. It is an uneven field sur­
rounded by a chain link fence. 
It has no end zones, no goal 
posts and no stands filled with 
cheering fans. 
Every evening during the football season, weather per­mitting, a team shows up to play. They never have an oppo­nent and they never score a touchdown, but they still show up to play. · 
The team that plays on this field is the Notre Dame Marching Band, the beat behind the Fighting Irish. During the football season, Monday through Friday, they march from the band building to the field, blow and drum for 90 minutes and then march back. 
Ten minutes before the band 

arrives, the director paces the 
field like a nervous coach, head 
lowered, inspecting the turf. 
Above him, mercury vapor 
lights slowly begin to light the 
field. In the distance, a faint 
thump-thumping of drums 
drifts through the brisk night 
air as the band winds its way 
through campus, towards the 
practice field. 
"They ought to be here ex­

actly at 6:45," the director says 
to nobody in particular. 
The drums pound louder as the band marches up to the field moments later. The trum­pets, saxophones and trom­bones glitter yellow under the hard lights and the sky slowly fades to black. 
The tubas and bass drums take their places on the field as the director climbs into a crow's nest that towers 25 feet above the 50-yard line. Over loudspeakers, he commands the trumpets to play the right notes. He admonishes the bass horns not to over-blow. 
"The people from NBC are coming to Friday's rehearsal." he says. "They're not going to show you if you play like that." 
The man who makes sure they sound that way is Luther Snavely, University band direc­tor. This is his fifth season in the craw's nest, keeping the bass drums in sync with the piccolos. 
"When I interviewed for this job, people kept asking me why I wanted to leave a full profes­sorship and tenure," muses Snavely. "I realized it was to be with the Notre Dame kids. The most enjoyable part of the job is being with these students." 
Snavely says that the band is here to represent the University. He says that the band becomes the focal point for school spirit, and it helps the team win. 
, "The kids and I really appre­ciate the support we get from the students at half-time and especially at the end of the game," Snavely says. "We couldn't do it without them." 

Two white-haired gentlemen wearing wool hats stand out­side the fence with their hands shoved in their pockets. They tap their feet to a tune that the snare drums are having trouble with. Next to them, a boy on a red tricycle says to his father, "They don't even sound like they're practicing, do they?" 
Snavely knows that directing America's oldest college marching band is a big job. "Notre Dame has so many wonderful traditions It's a 150­year old line that you just don't want to mess up," he says. 
Band members agree with Snavely. They feel that playing a saxophone or a trumpet is more than just blowing hot air. 
"It's like being a special part of the Notre Dame spirit," says piccoloist Janessa Griffin. "The best part is watching the crowd get excited." 
"It makes you feel like a real part of the University," says drum major Harrison Keller. 
For the privilege of feeling that way. the band pays with their lips, hands and especially feet. They march out to that uneven football field each night, and they run through their program over and over again, until it sounds just right to the man barking over the loudspeakers. 
They do it all that for that fifteen minutes that come along on Saturday-for the half time of a Fighting Irish football game. 
"We get a lot of abuse," says Woods. "Especially at away games, there are always com­ments a)Jout our 'skirts' from opposing fans. Fortunately, there are always more Notre Dame fans to set any hecklers straight." 
The life of an Irish Guard is not all glamour. The ten stu­dents who embody the dignity of the Notre Dame tradition sometimes find that dignity difficult to maintain. 
With each member standing about eight feet tall in full uni­form, wearing the official "Notre Dame Plaid" and an un­shakably somber expression, the Irish Guard is as recogniz­ably representative of Notre 





Lepreit 
By JOHN O'BRIE 
Accent Ed1tor 
H 
~~~-l~~~izP1 
at Not1 When mo~ America t 
they think of him. I No. Rick Mircr? No. Monk'.' Nut even 
He is the Leprecha1 
His image is seen books and footballs. favorite of NBC c< But the man behind is a friendly, enthw dent who keeps all t perspective. 
Dan Wagner is by dards an ordinary s lives in Planner and government and soc by other standards traordinary. 
The bearded ju Strabane, Pennsylva known for dressing outfit, running aro Dame Stadium wh crowd into a frenzy. 
In person, he's frit: est and genuine. Wh that it's the people, the students, that m worthwhile, you belh 
"Sometimes peop that I put on a : Wagner says. "But act. I would do that whether or not I ha on." 
But while people makes the job w some (especially opJ: can make the j1 Wagner says. The Purdue game was o tough times. 
"Purdue was just called everything yo of-things you print," he says. 
But Wagner take stride. "I figure, hell, I go 
pa e 13 

Just don't call them skirts 
By PAIGE SMORON Assistant Accent Editor 
~ e wear kilts. Not skirts­
kilts." 
Captain Chris Woods tries to 

dispel misconceptions about the Irish Guard whenever possible. 
"We get a lot of abuse," says Woods. "Especially at away games, there are always com­ments a.bout our 'skirts' from opposing fans. Fortunately, there are always more Notre Dame fans to set any hecklers straight." 
The life of an Irish Guard is not all glamour. The ten stu­dents who embody the dignity of the Notre Dame tradition sometimes find that dignity difficult to maintain. 
With each member standing about eight feet tall in full uni­form, wearing the official "Notre Dame Plaid" and an un­shakably somber expression, the Irish Guard is as recogniz­ably representative of Notre Dame as the leprechaun. But beyond the glory and renown of being a favorite home football game photo opportunity is a harsher reality. 
It's not easy being a Guard. 
"Most people support what we do-they understand the tradition," says Chris Boone, a junior Guard. "But people will come up and say, 'A man wear­ing a skirt. That's wrong.' I tell them that, if anything, we're reaffirming our masculinity." 
Whether be-skirted or be­kilted, they have a job to do. There is an Indiana state law that prohibits breaking the ranks of any band. Where the Notre Dame Marching Band is concerned, it is up to the Irish Guard to solemnly uphold this law. 
"We're not supposed to show any emotion when we're in uni­form. But a lot of people think they can make us flinch," says Boone. 
In an "Inspection" ceremony that takes place outside Washington Hall about a half hour before the game, the Guard's unwavering control is severely tested. Any Guard alumni is allowed to torture them at will. 

"I don't even want to go into most of what they do to us," says Woods. "But I've had my brother (a previous Irish Guard Captain) blow in my ear." 
Boone has also had it rough, "Before the last game, I had the back of my neck and part of my eyebrow dry-shaved. People will try anything." 
"Anything" can include roommates determined to come between the Irish Guard and the drum major; abusive oppo­nents assaulting the •Band in automobiles; and overzealous fans on the ground in an effort to discover what it is they wear under their kilts. 
"Exactly what's underneath the plaid is what we get asked the most," says Woods. "Sometimes we just say, 'Shoes and socks,' or 'I don't know-my Captain dresses me. But ultimately, that's up to the discretion of each individual." 
The uniform itself has been 

the source of many difficulties. Woods has had his plume fall out twice. And at this year's Purdue game, "I found out at Inspection that my kilt was on backwards," says Boone. "By that time, there wasn't a whole lot I could do about it." 
And then there are the cultish myths surrounding the Irish Guard. Hazing rituals and ac­tivities involving Drambuie are dismissed by Woods as " ... rumor, pure rumor." 
"Some of the stories that go around about us can be damag­ing," says Boone. 
But overall, the Guard thrives on the mystique. "It's what keeps us going," states Boone. "It's why people come to see us." 
The time requirement is huge, the uniforms are uncomfortable, and the critics are annoying. But Woods and Boone agree that the rewards of being a Guard outweigh the inconveniences. 
"We're such a small group-there's a lot of 'Guard Bonding,"' says Woods. 
The chance for ten students from all over the country and all over the campus to work so closely together is "the ultimate in male bonding," according to 
Boone. 

"The tradition, the dignity, the camaraderie... it's all worth it," says Boone. 
Since 1951, the Irish Guard has been leading the Band, per­forming the Irish Clog at half­time, and thrilling football fans. But even tradition has to make concessions. 
"One of the major differences is that we don't have to play the bagpipes anymore. If we had to play the bagpipes, we probably wouldn't have as many people trying out," says Woods. 
As it is, about forty students tried out to be part of this year's Irish Guard. The strin­gent 6'2" height requirement, however, rules out a lot of pos­sible contenders. Woods says that " ... girls are encouraged to try out. We haven't had a fe­male Guard yet, but it could happen." 
Just don't call them skirts. 

Ve 
Leprechaun takes 
en lt­ds ey 

it in stride 

he school in the world so I don't
By JOHN O'BRIEN

tle care what people think,"
Accent Editor 

a says. -and you believe him. 
H 
e's thP. most easily The genuine sense of pride in ke reco~~. niztHl person his voice makes you believe him. Wagner has learned to deal 
~r, 
at Notre Dame . :.g When most pPople in with life in the spotlight. 
~e America think of ND, first, his friends and family 
b. they think of him. Lou Holtz? asked him what it was going to lY No. Rick Mircr? be like in front of all those peo­0-No. r"tonk'~ Not even close. ple, and he thought a lot about l't He is the Leprechaun. it. 
His image is seen on t-shirts, "It's all you do. It's all you th books and footballs. And he's a can do because it's never hap­:.g favorite of NBC cameramen. pened to you before," he says. is But the man behind that image Now, he is accustomed to the 
is a friendly, enthusiastic stu­spotlight, and he finds himself dent who keeps all that fame in trying to avoid it. perspective. "There are other people down 

Dan Wagner is by most stan­here-there's 16 other cheer­dards an ordinary student. He leaders down here, too," lives in Flanner and is studying says. "We really are a team, 
al government and sociology. But why is all the focus on me?" ys by other standards, he is ex­Whether he likes it or not, 
traordinary. Wagner is often the focus of at­lg The bearded junior from tention. And he worked hard to th Strabane, Pennsylvania, is best earn that attention. To become Jy known for dressing in a green the Leprechaun, Wagner had to at outfit, running around Notre meet the following qualifica­;h Dame Stadium whipping the tions: rh crowd into a frenzy. • Be able to grow a 
' 
er In person, he's friendly, mod­beard. ht est and genuine. When he says • Be under 5 feet, 9 inches 1e that it's the people, particularly tall. 
the students. that make his job • Be able to do a backflip. at worthwhile, you believe him. • Pass an interview with lg "Sometimes people tell me panel of judges. 1e that I put on a good act," • Perform in several skits 
makes that impossible, butHe's kept his success in to fit in the appearances, and
Wagner says. "But it's not an • Improvise a situation given 
Wagner says he hopes to go to 
act. I would do that anyway­by the judges. For this, Wagner prospective. Wagner enjoys going to the 
some of those games when 
whether or not I had that suit was told to act as if he were at Being the Leprechaun is "a schools. 
things settle down after foot­
on." a anti-Notre Dame pep rally at part of my life-but it's not my "They're in their curious ball season.
But while people are what Penn State. Wagner put on his whole life," he says. stage," Wagner says of the 
This week, though, Wagner
makes the job worthwhile, best imitation of a Southern But it sure does take up a lot youngsters he meets. "Once we hasn't been practicing. A stom­of time. Wagner and the 16 answer one of their questions.
some (especially opposing fans) preacher and began: 

ach virus has sidelined him, 
can make the job tough, "The first thing that comes to other cheerleaders practice they keep asking and asking 
sending him to the Infirmary.
Wagner says. The recent ND­my mind when I think of Penn Monday through Friday from 4 until you have to make them Despite that this has caused 
Purdue game was one of those State is Satan," he said. "Do to 6 p.m., concentrating on stop," he jokes. 
him to lose five pounds already,
tough times. you believe ... ," he said, and he routines for the Saturday's Wagner. along with the rest Wagner vows to be on the field
performances. of the cheerleading team ap­"Purdue was just hell. I was continued with a rousing ser­on Saturday. He lives just a half called everything you can think mon. The judges loved it. In addition to their practices, pears at football games and all hour from Pittsburgh, and he's of-things you can't even It was the· second time the cheerleaders usually get one home basketball games. They ready to be on the field whenrequest a week to make public have also received requests to
print," he says. Wagner tried out to be 
the Panthers arrive.

But Wagner takes it all in Leprechaun. In 1990, he tried appearances, especially in area appear at other team's games. 
''I'll be there," he says. And
elementary schools.The team including baseball and soccer.
stride. out but wasn't chosen. This you believe him. 
works around their schedules Often, their practice schedule
"I figure, hell. I go to the best time, though, he made it. 


Friday, October 11, 1991
page 14 The Observer 
Connells rock the house 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR familiar with all of the better than expected in audience. Flaherty, excited by the success Music Critic Connells' material, the audience Theodore's, which is essentially The Notre Dame audience, of last night's show. responded to the band like a square room with problem­indeed, found this concert The WVFI staff is looking at 
The first installment in what groupies. While they clapped causing glass windows galore. especially accessible. The low most bands playing Chicago WVFI hopes will become a and danced to recent favorites Theodore's proved to be an cost ($5), combined with the clubs, as possible participants concert series at Theodore's like "Stone Cold Yesterday" and ideal location for a concert of talent shown on the Theodore's in the WVFI series at was a rollicking, driven "Fun and Games," earlier songs this type. Previously untapped stage, were the primary Theodore's. exposition of North Carolina such as .. Over There," from for live rock music, the dance elements of the concert's rock as the Connells performed 1986's Boylan Heights, also club provides a an intimate success. The next band on the WVFI's' in front of nearly 500 were popular. atmosphere with maximum agenda will likely be entertainment-starved Notre "I think most of the crowd accessibility for a college ·we will do this again," said Minneapolis' Poster Children. Dame and Saint Mary's was hardened fans of the students. band," said Flaherty. 
The crowd reaction to these Few, however, had ever heard college radio favorites, whose any material by the Connells' mo8! recent album, One Simple opening act. But Seven Simons, Word, was released a year ago, from the eternally music-rich was loud and spirited. college town of Athens, Ga., got 
"The crowd was incredibly the audience ready for the responsive," said WVFI station headliners with their own manager Kevin Flaherty. "It is brand of southern rock. heartening that they have this Surprisingly loud and raw, big a following here (at Notre Seven Simons' live show was Dame)." also entertaining. Though much 
This was not only the opinion of their second album, Four of the concert's chief promoter. Twenty-four, falls flat, their One of the band's founders felt live show was an exciting way the same way. to begin the evening. 
"I don't know what I can say The two bands' shows were without sounding trite," said so torrid, in fact, that Connells' guitarist Mike Connell. "Being guitarist George Huntley out on the road would be a lot collapsed from heat exhaustion better if crowds were like this during the band's encore. every night." Fortunately, Huntley recovered 
Indeed, the audience quickly after the show. immediately responded to the As the rll"st concert of 1991 in band's opening song, "Upside­Theodores, the shows were not Down." The show took various without their technical twists and turns, and climaxed problems. The first several as the set drew to a close. songs of Seven Simons' set 
The closing five-song series were bedeviled by an of "Motel," "Fun and Games," unbearably loud drum set, "Sal," "Something to Say," and which drowned out all sounds "Stone Cold Yesterday" put an but the bass guitars'. exclamation point on an After this problem was already intense show. corrected, however, the Theodore's is rocked by the Connells, "who played to nearly 500 students last night. This was the first concert 
Made up of fans apparently acoustics of the concert were in what WVFI's Kevin Flaherty hopes will become a series. Athens' Seven Simons opened for the Connells. 
A Catholic looks at the new joy of sex 
A book called 'The New Joy of schools a generation or two 
Original sin, as the tie that Sex' arrived on our desk the ago. binds, makes us earthbound. In other morning," notes an editor I may not be so simpleminded order to lift us up, Christ
Father Robert Griffin 
writing in the current New as to believe that patent leather formed us as members of His Yorker, "and with it came a shoes reflect upwards; but the mystical body, with a mandate
Letters to a Lonely God

rush not of titillation but of nos­guilt those dear old sisters to share one another's burdens. talgia. Our nostalgia was not for taught was a healthy guilt Sexuality can bring us down sex itself but for the old which kept confessors busy. like the law of gravity. It can be 'Joy,'which first appeared Some of those confessors It's no great hardship, but it's abortion does. Do intimacies a mystery that defeats us, a nearly twenty years ago. We understood more about the no bed of roses, either, to be a exchanged between consenting cross that fails to raise us to the loved the old 'Joy,' and we were dynamics of temptation than priest entrusted with the care of adults lose us the state of level of His cross. Yet, the sex­puzzled that anyone felt the the psychotherapists who souls in a Church that often grace? So, does masturbation ual orientation we were en­need for a new one." replaced them. feels like a house divided and drooling over Playboy? dowed with shouldn't distract 
All I know about sex, I could against itself. Original sin has made us a us from becoming the children 
VVhat changed, says the write down on the back of a This much I feel sure family who share the same kind of God. editor, was not so much the gum wrapper. I don't read the of-authority figures can be of flesh wounds. That's why it's If I am my brother's keeper, nature of sex as the nature of sex manuals, and I don't much kinder than you'd be led foolish for Christians to act macho should mean being there joy, which has diminished and consciously sabotage the to chiefly expect, if you had only holier-than-thou The conscience for my siblings, going home on altered over the years. Church's tradition. the letter of the law to go on. is such a private place. the less-travelled road. Is it 
When the old Joy was written Nevertheless, I notice that in What chiefly bothers me is the better to be AM than FM? Is it in 1973, "Sex was an extremely matters of morality, the wind tough-mindedness of students All any of us can do is oversee more normal to be AC than DC. safe occupation...The major keeps changing. when they write to each other his own. The greatest evil is to Only Catholics could turn sex in 
venereal diseases, especially Theoretically, I presume, at a in the Observer. see sin where there is no sin, a matter of soul-sear.ching, syphilis, were curable. Those Catholic school, theology is the I would like to remind the which can happen when we Maybe sexuality, like poetry, which had replaced them, queen of the sciences; and young Catholics at Notre Dame rash-judge a soul who may should not mean but be? though troublesome, were not guided by its light, we should be that though "sin" is a powerful have made a separate peace life threatening." able to make judgments about word for which there is no with the will of God. Philip Larkin the poet wrote: 
the truth or falsity of what other handy substitute, I should apply All of us are sinners re­"Sexual intercourse began/In 
This picture was changed by kinds of knowledge have to tell the disfigurement meant by the deemed by grace, struggling nineteen sixty-three/ (Which the arrival of AIDS. It should us about the human situation. word to myself, and rarely to against the world, the flesh,and was rather late for also be noted, says the New But, what happens in an age others, honoring the Gospel the devil; and obliged in justice me)-/Between the end of the Yorker, that the great outside when theology itself becomes rubric which says, "Let him to offer each other compassion, Chatterly ban/And the Beatles' event giving the old Joy its fragmented? How helpful is the who is without sin cast the first sympathy, and love, when first LP." euphoria was the Pill, "which religious pluralism which seems stone." frailty tempts the other to favor For men my age, the season had opened a vista of sexual to place faith and morals at You need to know quite a lot the flesh in rebellion against the when the earth first moved freedom that seemed to stretch odds with one another? about a person before you can spirit. tended to be the summer of '42. ahead to eternity." If I were a theologian, feel sure that he is objectively Greater love no one has than The awareness lads came to 
"The New Joy of Sex" is not perhaps I'd have a better guilty of serious sin. Innocent this-that he's willing to lay was like a religious experience, Bob F. Griffin's cup of tea any understanding of the evolution people can get in the worst kind down his life for the friends of so they said. For Catholic lads, I more than the old "Joy of Sex" of doctrine; and with that in­of trouble because they really Christ, male or female, straight understand, the religious was. sight, I'd be able to see that the don't know what they're doing. or gay. No man is an island, experience came later, when 
So far as I can tell, John Paul Church has never been It should be humbling to able to survive without love by the lad went to confession. II and Cardinal Ratzinger are monolithic in propagating the remember that each of us takes himself af a sexual being. Growing up as a Protestant, I the best-informed experts on absolutes of its moral code. turn being guilty of the sexual If the Nativity took place dido't realize until I was the Christian uses of sex in the As a confessor, I feel sins. Bad thoughts, says the today, instead of being born a nineteen that the body's hunger world; and after hearing from competent to lead sinners in Lord, is the form adultery takes, Jew, Christ might have been has a sacramental side, which 
them, I'm convinced that Dr. from the cold. I'm there in the when we commit it in our born a homosexual, adding a may explain why Catholics are Ruth should have a stake of mercy seat not as a judge, but hearts. Paging through the new dimension to His stature as often haunted by guilt. holly driven through her tongue as a doctor. I don't accuse "New Joy of Sex," looking for the Suffering Servant. I mean, aspiring to be pure every time she describes group­people; but if I can help them to thrills, counts against us as lust, Is it a sacrilege to imagine a souJs,they don't seem able to gropes as making love. self-understanding, they should extended and aggravated every gospel which says: "The Lord is forgiye themselves for having a 
Human sexuality needs to be be able to figure out whether time we turn the page. my shepherd, and His son is sexual nature. When did you protected by the seamless ethic there is guilt on their souls that The use of condoms, even in gay"? lsn't it also a sacrilege to ever hear of any student on this requiring restraint and self­they need to acknowledge. the context of marriage, says treat gays as the children of a campus writing in the Observer discipline which was taught by accusing themselves against the Church, grieves God as a less god who fathers lepers and that he looks a Christian to the the nuns in the Catholic grade God. mortal sin the same way other outcasts? joy of sex. 
Friday, October 11, 1991 The Observer 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 

Classifieds 
must be prepaid The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I 
I 
NEEDRIDETOCENTRALNJ NEED TENN. GA'S. I NEED NAVY AND TENN GA'S ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S Need 2-4 NAVY GA'S. Will pay top -NOTICES -OCT 18 $$ X4456 CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, TO ANY HOME GAME$ dollar! call Jeff 234-2396 
OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. HAVE 1 PITTGA CALL COLLECT 
FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS FOR SALE OR TRADE 812-477-2627 I NEED 2 TENNESEE GA'S USED BOOKS CHEAP!!!!!!!!!! Promote and Organize our Spring WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD CALL COREY 277-5854 25% off list price Break tours. All materials furnished. JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? CALL TOM NEED 4 PITT GA'S AND 2 NAVY 10-5:30 everyday Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus NEED 3 TICKETS TO ND vs. USC X1762 GA'S ...CALL 288-7458 AND ASK I Need 2 USC GA's Pandora's Books corner of ND Marketing. 1-800-423-5264 QN 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789-FOR MATT OR ROB -Steve X 1835 
ave &Howard 
0654 I NEED 4 PITT GA'S FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS CALL289-7128 Relative have never seen HAVE 2 GA Pitt CALL 288-0730 TYPING AVAILABLE to students or student organizations I need 1 NAVY GA CONDOMS IN ACTION! EVENINGS 287-4082 promting our Spring Break Allison x3715 HELP! I NEED 4 NAVY GA'S. NEED 3 USC GA'S to have 
Packages. Good Pay and Fun. WILL PAY $$$$ their DREAMS COME TRUE WHO HAS THE MIRACLE TICKET Typing Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264. NEED 2 PITT GA's ASK FOR AL@ X1230 Call MIKE at X2360 Fast, Professional Monica X2680 LOOKING FOR 4 PITT GA'S 277-7406 Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling i need 1 GA for PITT, dammit. Dana Rich alums need 10 A. F. g.a.'s. Will 
Spring Break Packages to HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME dee 277-8084. pay $$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) FRIENDS ROADTRIPING FROM ++++++ ATTENTION ALL+++++ Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. 624-7990 THE 'BURGH. Buy your Notre Dame Mom, Florida! Best Trips and Pricesl TIX, OR WILL SELL. CALL I NEED 1 STUD TIX OR GA FOR 
Dad. and Alum Sweats Spring Break Travel 1-800-638-JASON,287-8818. NAVY PLEASE CALL PAT Need LOTS of GA's for Navy and CALL PETE AT 234-4715­this Saturday from 8 a.m. 6786. X1763 USC Whitney X4304 LEAVE A MESSAGE AND I'LL until noon at the SOUTH Give me your PITT Student Tic and MEET YOU. QUAD FLAG POLE!!!! **PITT TIX .. you will know the meaning of life (or ATTENTION EVERYONE: I NEED I need a Navy GA desperately 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ I need 5 at least get some money) Chris 6 TICKETS FOR THE TENN. Call Mike x4655 I NEED 4 USC GA'S !!! Also Need 1 USC x3414 GAME!! EVEN ONE WILL HELP!! x4421 MICHELLE 284-5536 HELP! Alum needs 2 USC GAs PLEASE CALL 
ILOST/FOUND usc usc usc usc usc usc Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 ANDREA 283-1330. NEED RIDE To IU (Indy good usc usc usc usc usc I need 2 Pitt GA's really bad! Please
GLASSES FOUND! 
enough) Sat. of break@ noon (af1er Vince Needs two GA's to see call Sandy x4071 if you can help me I need: 2 Navy GAs sell book std tix
ONE PAIR MEN'S GLASSES IN 
GMAT's) Call Steve x2366! Will Pay THE TROJANS out. Thanks! Tenn. GAs 271 19 98 8-11
LENSCRAFTERS CASE FOUND 
$$ Call x3414 anytime call Greg 289-8917ON FRIDAY NITE, 10/4, NEAR 
usc usc usc usc usc usc NEED 3 TENN GA'S Need 2 Pitt G.A's. Call 2106. 
LIBRARY. TO CLAIM, CALL 
NEED Tenn/Navy GAs-please usc usc usc usc usc usc WILL PAY BIG$ X4558 Help me be a little angel! My
COLETTE, 283-4434. 
Chns1791 godmother needs a USC GA. Be $$ WANTED:1 USC GA OR STUD NEED PITT GA'S AND STUDENT my savior-X3484 TICKET. BRIDGET x4980 $$IF YOU ARE THE YOUNG LADY 
EXCHANGE: I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 284­
WHO DRIVES A WHITE HONDA 
FOR RENT PITT AND WILL EXCHANGE 3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME, Need 4 General Admission Tickets NEEDGA'S
CRX AND LOST HER 
THEM FOR 2 TENN GA'S. NUMBER AND THE PRICE YOU to Pitt and 2 tickets to USC. Call CALL TOM x3242 SUNGLASSES AT THE CAR CALL MAR,IA AT 284-5132 ARE ASKING. Marylou or Ray Cressy at 234­WASH, STOP BY OR CALL. THE BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ************************ 7553 (Day) or 234-3873 (Nite) Please sell me your Tenn. GAGLASSES HAVE BEEN FOUND. 
219-291-7153 

MY LITTLE BROTHER AND WANT TO PURCHASE STUDENT or student tix. x2985 FRIENDS WANT TO COME TO TICKET BOOKS. PLEASE CALL Need 2 USC GA's. This is 
LOST: GOLD CHAIN WI DIAMOND. House for Rent THE **NAVY** GAME. NEED 284-3814, LEAVE YOUR NAME, SERIOUS! Call Steve x2366 I NEED 3 NAVY GAs. 
OLD! HEIRLOOM. BEYOND $200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 
GA'S! NUMBER AND PRICE Call Carol x4942. 
SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 8am-4pm. 
CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 NEED 2 TENN GAs-CALL DOC AT
IF FOUND, PLEASE RETURN TO 1310 South Bend Ave. 
I need PITT GAs! 2723001 NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TOKELLEY X4294 
Call Jim x1493 USC AND TENN. 
HELP! I need to sublet! 2BDRM 

I need 2 TN GAs. Will pay BIG$$. NEED PITT GA'S FOR POOR JAY X1578
FOUND: FEMALE GERMAN APT@ TRTL CREEK -FULLY Call will at x3001. NEED 2 NAVY GAS STEVE 233-RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN 1589SHEPHARD MIX WITH RED FURNISHED! CALL Liz x1320 
3882 I NEED 2 USC GA'S IN A BADCOLLAR DRAGGING A CHAIN. 
Need 4 PITT GA's. Can you help I NEED USC GAS WAY!! Brady x1191FOUND ON CAMPUS. CALL ANN 
me out? X4419 NEED 3 G.A'S FOR TENNESEE CALL PHIL X2096 
654-8550 OR 239-6346. 
FOR SALE 

JOE X1360 HELP! I need Pitt I NEED 1 PITT TICKET! HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP!!! 
LOST OR STOLEN • 
tickets!!! Please call1321 NEED TENN TICKETS BOTH STD Please call x1963 TWO HOT BABES NEED PITT TIX. 
LICENSE PLATE CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill AND GA CALL JONATHAN AT student OR ga 1 Student 
Illinois plate reading T-Shirts, Sweatshirts. closeout. T­Need 6 Ten. and 6 USC GA's 277-9733 2GA's
"D TROIT" missing since Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone 
Will pay big bucks. -AIR FORCE GA's Needed!! 
Thurs. 1 9 Sept.; came off Game Day Promotions 291-6394. 
#3718 HELP ME!!! HELP ME!!! HELP (At least 2) Please Cali­
somewhere between Kaplan 
ME!!! Cathleen @x 2822 Educational Center (next to Turtle selling student ticket booklet Have 2 Tenn GAs, want to trade for I NEED PITT TICKETS! ************************ Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize it's x3025 2 Pitt·GAs. CAll Shannon P. 272-CALL ALLISON X2750 DESPERATELY NEED 3 ST. TIXcute, but it will cost a bundle to 
8735. FOR TENN. Call Kathy x3958 
replace so PLEASE return if you 1-WAY PLANE TICKET TO ST. 
I need two USC GA's so my parentsLOUIS. DEPARTS SB ON 9/19. 

have it and no questions will be 
MANY PITT AND NAVY TICKETS HELP!!! I NEED NAVY GAs!!! I need 2 or 3 Tenn. GA can bring me back toasked!! If you have the plate or CALL MIKE 1640 TO MAKE 
NEEDED. RICH PARENTS WILL call Shawn X3256 school!! Please HELP! I don't want
info, call 4911. Generous reward OFFER. 
PAY BIG MONEY! $$$$MONEY NO OBJECT$$$$ to live at home!!!
offered. 
CALL ERIC or JEFF @x3575 Need TENN & USC GA's Stan Call Jeanne x2670 -leaveSelling Pittsburg tix/books 
CALL SCOTT: x1832 ANYTIME x1726 messageLOST: I was going to the married student: 273-1714 Selling Pittsburgh student cleaners and I dropped my 
tickets. Luis: 273-1528 WILL TRADE GA'S! NEED 2 USC, CD Player -asking $75 roommate's tie somewhere 
$$NEED 1 PITT GA. CHRISTA HAVE 2 NAVY. JILL X3021 Will trade 2 Pitt, USC, orcall Mike at x 1 068 between Flanner and D2 on Need USC GAs-277-6048 x1346.$$ Navy GAs for 2 Tenn. GAsMonday, October 7 at about 
Tony NEED NAVY GA'S Dean, 287-9663
12:45 PM. If you picked it up Have round Trip ticket 
Need 4 PITT GAs SHARON 284-5146 
please call Jason at 1521 to ATLANTA good til 
NEED PITT GA'S x4040 >>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<<<<<
before he kills me! Christmas X1167 kyle X2187 DAN <<<< 
I REALLY need 2 Pitt GA's and I've NEEDED: 2 TIX, STUD OR GA > NEED USC TIX <1983 Buick LeSabre Limited, LOST: Small Indian purse 
NEED 6 TIX FOR PITT FOR TENN. STUDS OR GAS
wl student I.D. card. 34,000 miles, excellent condition, got 150 great reasons in my pocket CALL SUE AT 271-> < 
CALL TOM x3242 why you should sell them to me! 0053. >>>>>>>>>>>>>>><<<<<<<<<<<< 
Please call Mike at loaded and overdrive, $5,900/offer, Kyle X-1750 <<<<
277-9737.

283-3546 or send to 
NEEDED: 1 GA NAVY. CALL I need 2 Navy GAs. '91 ALUM LIVING LOCALLY 261 Morrissey Manor!! 
CHRISTINE AT 271-0053. Need 1 Pitt GA X3578 Call Kathy x4944 YOUR BOOKLET WILL BE SAFE1 way plane ticket from CALL SEAN @ 273-1601Found in Career &Placement: Baltimore,MD to South Bend at the DESPERATELY NEEDED!! Have Pitt GA's and student tickets Have PITT GAS to trade LEAVE MESSAGE IF NOT HOME Red, white &blue jacket; ND key end of fall break. Cheap$! Call 
2 PITT GAS-PARENTS COMING to sell. Call x2236. for USC or TENN
4905.

ring-S keys including Mazda car key. 
IN FOR BIRTHDAY! or sell I HAVE TWO PITT TICKETSH! CALL LAURA AT X2545 I NEED TENN. GA OR STUDENT X1167 or 1177 YOU WANT 'EM?? 
LOST: Brown, brushed leather 1986 Chevy Custom van. Perfect 
TICKET CALL KEITH AT #1560 for tailgaters.Excellent condition, air jacket. Very desperate to recover 
I NEED USC TIX (STUD OR GA) I need 4 GA's for the USC or Navycond.,cruise, captain's chairs, oak it!!! If you have it, have seen it, or 
CALL MIKE@ 277-9205 TOM-TOM game. PLEASE! Call Amy at 284-I NEED USC TIX BAD!!
table, and much more. $8500 or X1762 5117. Thanx. CALL KEITH #1560 know anything about it, PLEASE 
call Robb at 1802. Reward offered. best offer call 239-5755 days, or I Have TENN GAs 272-7606 anytime. Ask for Kelly orNo questions asked. 
will Trade for PITT GAs I NEED 1 PITT GA AND 2-4 TENN. Need Pitt Tix X3543 ***HELP***Barry. 
call Paul 283-3863 GA'S SEAN H @289 6439 NEED 2 USC GA TIX LOST OR STOLEN Need 2 GAs for Pit1,1 for Tenn. for WILL PAY GOOD $$$ JESUS 
Need 4 GAs for Penn State! Please * * * *************** ** friends from MAINE! CALL BART 271-0759 
He's 3-dimensional and my TICKETS 
call AJ X1253 WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS x2258
RA wants him back to light 
-PLEASE CALL EMILY AT NEED 2 TENN GAs up his room. 
I need tickets for Mich. St., and HELP!! Need 3 GA's for NAVY 277-4861 I'll pay top dollar for 2 GA's for USC Rob x3571 
Return him with no questions ....................
USC. Call 1384 x2797 and Tennessee . 
asked to 316 Flanner. 
Chris 239-5713 I desperately need 1 Pitt GA! 
God would want you to do it. 
i need 2 GAs to TENNESSEE Why We need 1 USC and 1 Navy GA HELP! call Art at 2479 don't you sell them to me? I am Jan. Call Chris or Pat @ 4657 TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED I Need Two Tennessee Tickets So Call me for a good time, 277-6885. Please call Sam Santo at my friends can see those Red Neck 
Need PITT GA'S; call @ 2789 (201 )217-0030 (home) or Vols. Call the Green-One x3409. 
LOST GOLD "ROPE" BRACELET, 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS leave message will return call (201) 992-8700 (work)_ on October 8, 1991, somewhere on WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. immediately NEED2 USCSouth Quad. 
'68 ALUM DESPERATELY Steve x1743If found, PLEASE CALL 
NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE usc usc usc usc WANTS 2 GA'S TO BETH #2509. 
CALL JILL 272-1967. I Need 4 GAs Asap for Family TENN OR USC Thuy is so desperate for G.A.s or 
I 
Jenny at 3822 CALL JOANNE 2184 OR 3783 student tickets to Pitt he'll show you NEED 2 PITT GA'S anything you want to see. Sell him CALL ROB @ 3054 WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE two tix to get the mother of all 
2 NAVY GA'S! PLEASE HELP! GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097 rewards. Try him at his personal WANTED WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR CALL TIM AT X2506 love palace@272-9326. If he isn't 
------­

TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL Need 4 TENN GA's home please leave this rich, rich 
DINNERFOR2 

OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 
601-249-3417 NIGHTS. FOR SALE 2 TIX ALL HOME call jon 271-1562 man a message about the tickets. 
FOR $8.99 Pick my two Gourmet

mo.Summer, Yr.round,AII GAM ES273-1802 
Sandwtcha. two prden su.da,

Countries,AII fields. Free info. Write i need 2 GAs for PITT for my aunt, Attention! I have friends coming 
plua yow chace al Freocb IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del who's a nun, and her friend, another DESPERATELY NEED TIX FOR from California who woud love to 
Fries or Onion RID.-.nd 2 Mar CA 92625. nun. Would you deny a nun her fun? USC. STUDENT OR GA. (Willing to HAVE PITT GAS see the Irish destroy USC. Any GAs 
Mloi-Suod-

Greg x1795 trade) Call Ron 277-9205 CALL x1781 or student tix would be most 
expl.raUoo date10/27
I need a ride for break to Philly­MAKE OFFER excellent, dude. Call 277-6932 and Wilm-S. NJ area & back for USC i need up to 5 STUD tix for USC. Need 2 Pitt tix give Rob your price. If Rob isn't 
~kay eny 1tze tund• and game. Amy x4290 pete x1791 Call Liz at 4094 home listen to his excellent 
------­

SUNDAE recelw a 1econd aoe at tbe I need 2 USC tix answering machine and leave a 
99¢ 
-·llzefor 9tc

NEED Ride/Riders to Boston, $$$$$ Tom #3109 message. 
expt.raUoo date 10127
Rhode Island area for October 
USC GA's needed. Call and leave Need 2 USC GM. Break! Please!!! Call Amy 283-message 277-9468. Call Cath x4276 I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY NEEDED:4-6 Tenn. GAs,any USC 1347. $$$$$ GA TIXS.272-6306 tix Call Jeremy 277-4873 see Class I page 9 

.."'-............ 


------------~------------~~----------------------------------------------~------------------------~--------------~ 
page 16  SCOREBOARD  
COLLEGE FOOTBALL  TRANSACTIONS  NHL STANDINGS  ATLANTA-PITTSBURGH BOX  
I  

Saturday, Oct. 12 
EAST Citadel (2-2) at Army (2-2) LoulsviRe (2-3) at Boaton College (0-4) Delaware (4-1) at Boston U. (1-4) Princeton (:H>) at Brown (0-3) Yale (2-1) at Colgate (1-4) Penn (0-3) at Colurrbla (0-3) Holy Cross (4-0) at Dartmouth (2-1) Harvard (1-2) at Fordham (1-3) BuckneR (1-4) at Lafayette (2-2) Northeastern (3-1) at Lehigh (4-0) Rhode Island (2-2) at M•aachusetts (2-3) Air Force (5-1 ) at Navy (0-4) Richmond (1-3) at New H8fTl)Shlre (4-1) Maine (1-4) at Rutgers (4-1) E. Caro~na (4-1) a1 Syracuse (4-1) Tel"fl)le (1-4) at West VIrginia (3-2) 
SOUTH Tulane (0-6) at Alabama (4-1) Middle Tennessee St. (3-1) at Austin Peay (3-1) Howard U. (2-3) at Bethune-Cookman (2-2) Samford (5-0) at Central Florida (4-2) Virginia (3-2) at Clemson (3-1) Uberty ( 1-3) at Delaware St. (3-1) Appalachian St. (4-2) at E. Tennessee St. (0-4) 
W. Kentucky (2-2) at E. Kentucky (4-1) Tennessee (4-0) at Florida (4-1) Virginia Tech (2-3) va. Florida St. (5-0) at 
Orlando Marshan (3-1) at Furman (5-0) 
W. Carolina (1-4) at Georgia Southern (2-3) Maryland (1-3) at Georgia Tech (2-3) Towson St. (0-4) at James Madison (4-1) Arltansas St. (0-6) at LSU (1-3) Southern Mississippi (3-2) at Me!'lllhis St. (2-3) Penn St. (5-1) at Miami (4-0) Georgia (4-1) at Mississippi (5-1) Kentucky (2-2) at Mississippi St. (3-2) 
S. Carolina St. (4-0) at Morgan St. (0-5) Tenneasee-Manln (3-1) at Murray St. ( 1-4) Wake Forest (1-3) at N. Carolina (3-1) Florida A&M (2-2) at N. Carolina A&T (4-1) McNeese St. (2-2) at NE Louisiana (4-1) 
N. Texas (1-2-1) at NW Louisiana (2-2) Tulsa (3-2) at SW Louisiana (0-6) Louisiana Tech (4-1) at S. Carolina (2-2-1) Southern Illinois (5-1) a1 Troy St. (2-3) WHIIam & Mary (2-3) at VM I (3-2) Auburn (3-2) at Vanderbilt (1-4) 
MIDWEST Youngstown St. (4-1) at Akron (1-4) Miami, Ohio (4-1) at Central Michigan (3-1-2) BaH St. (3-3) at E. Michigan ( 1-5) Ohio St. (4-0) a1 Illinois (3-1) Nonhern Iowa (4-1) at Illinois St. (4-1) Non hwestern ( 1-3) at Indiana (2-1·1) 
E. Illinois (2-3) at Indiana St. (2-3) Kansas (3-1) at Kansas St. (3-1) Cincinnati (1-4) at Kent (0-5) Michigan (3-1) at Michigan St. (0-4) Purdue (2-2) at Minnesota (1-3) 
W. Michigan (4-2) at Northern IHinois (1-4) Pittsburgh (5-0) at Notre Dame (4-1) Bowling Green (4-1) at Ohio U. (1-3-1) Tennessee Tech (0-5) at SE Missouri (0-6) SW Missouri St. (3-1-1) atW. Illinois (3-1-11 Iowa (3-1 ) at Wisconsin (3-1) 
SOUTHWEST Houston (1-3) at Arkansas (3-2) Rice (2-2) at Baylor (5-0) Nebraska (3-1) at Oklahoma St. (0-4) Cameron (1-3) at Prairie View (0-5) Nicholls St. (2-3) at Sam Houston St. (3-0-1) Texas Tech (1-4) at Southern Methodist (1-3) Southwest Texas St. (2-2) at S. F. Austin (1-3) Oklahoma (4-0) vs. Texas (1-2) a1 Dallas Alcorn St. (4-1) at Texas Southam (3-2-1) 
FAR WEST Texas-EI Paso (3-2-1) at Brigham Young (2-3) UNLV (2-3) at Cal St.-Fullerton (1-4) Oregon (3-2) at Call1omla (4-0) Missouri (2-1-1) at Colorado (2-2) Penland St. (3-2) at E. Washington (2-3) Long Beach St. (1-4) at Fresno St. (4-0) Boise St. (4-0) at Montana (2-3) Montana St. (1-5) at Nonhem Arizona (2-3) Idaho St. (2-2) at Nevada (5-0) San Jose St. (2-2) at New Mexico St. (0-4) Arizona St. (3-1) at Oregon St. (0-4) Cal Poly-SLO (2·2) at Pacific U. (1-4) New Mexico (1-5) at San Diego St. (3-2) Cornell (1-2) at Stanford (1-3) Arizona (2-3) at UCLA (2-2) Toledo (2-1-1) at Washington (4-0) Southam Cal (2-2) at Washington St. (2-3) Idaho (3-2) at Weber St. (4-1) Utah (3-2) at Wyoming (2·3-1) 
APTOP 25 
The Top Twenty Five teams In the Associated 
Preas 1991 college football poll, with first-place
votes In parentheses, I'9COI'ds through Oct. 5, total points based on 25 points for a first-place vote through one point for a 25th-place vote, and previous ranking: 
Record Pis Pvs 1. Florida St. (58) 5-0-0 1,498 1 2.Miaml(1) 4-0-0 1.416 2 3. Washington (1) 4-0-0 1,404 3 4. Tennea... 4-0-0 1.298 4 5. Michigan 3-1-0 1.213 7 6. Oklahoma 4-0-0 1,208 5 7. Notre Dame 4-Hl 1,129 8 8. Baylor 5-0-0 1,083 11 9. Pwm St. 5-1-0 991 12 
10. Florida 4-1-0 895 13 11. Ohio St. 4-0-0 860 14 12. Pltt.burgh 5-0-0 692 11 t3. Calllomla 4-0-0 689 11f 14. Nebraska 3-1-0 687 15 15. Syracuse 4-1-0 653 1 0 t6. N. Carolina St. 5-0-0 638 19 17. Iowa 3-1-0 fJt:J7 9 18. Clemson 3-1-0 57'9 6 t9. Alabama 4-1-0 439 20 20. llinoia 3-1-0 :i72 22 21. r...A&M 3-1-0 303 23 22. Georgia 4-1-0 287 23. Mitsiaslppl 5-1-Ct 112 24. AuiNim 3-2-0 105 18 25. Color&ie 2-2-0 92 25 
Other IIICWoling vot•: Arizona St. 74. Misaiulppl St. 30, Fr•no St. 24, Southwn MIN. 23, Air Force 1!~. East Carolina 115, Mlstourl 12. North Caroina 12. UCLA 11, Georgia Tech 8, lndiaM 7, Rutgers 4, Southem c.a 4, Texas Christian 3, Virginia 2. Wltcontln 1. 
Bold lndlcat• Notre Dame opponent. See Irish FOOCball '91 for National Collegiate Sponswrltera' Poll. 

BASEBALL American League BOSTON RED SOX-Named Don Zimmer third base coach and Rich Gale pitching coach. 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Sent Garland Kiser and Eric Stone, pitchers, outright to Colorado Springs of the Pacific Coast League. 
MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Placed Rick Del"fl)Sey, catcher. on waivers for the purpose of giving him his unconditional release. 
SEATILE MARINERS-Fired Jim Lefebvre, manager, and Mike Paul, pitching coach. Retained Gene Clines, Dan Warthen and Rusty Kuntz, coaches, for the 1992 season. Sent Keith Comstock, Brian Givens and Mike Walker, pitchers, outright to Calgary al the Pacific Coast League. Announced that Comstock refused assignment and became a free agent. National League 
MONTREAL EXP08-Sent Greg McCarthy, pitcher, outright to Indianapolis of the American Association. 
NEW YORK METS-Announced that Rick Cerone, catcher, refused assignment and became a free agent. Mldweat League 
QUAD CITY ANGELS-Announced they are changing their name to the Quad City River Bandits. 
BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaol:latlon ORLANDO MAGIC-Agreed on a contract extension with Jeff Tumer, forward. 
PHILADELPHIA 76ERS-Signed Hersey Hawkins, guard, to a 4-year contract extension. Waived Mike Goodson, guard. • Continental Basketball Association 
FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Tony Karasek. center. LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Signed Baskerville Holmes, forward. WICHITA FALLS-Signed Roben Youngblood, forward. 
FOOTBALL Arena Football League 

PHOENIX-Named Danny White general manager and coach. Professional Spring Football League 
PSFL-Named Rex Lamder, Jr. commissioner and chle1 executive officer. 
GENERAL 

NEW JERSEY SPORTS AND EXPOSITION AUTHORITY-Promoted Michael Gralme to director of college athletics and public relations for the Meadowlands Arena and Giants Stadium. 
HOCKEY National Hockey League 

SAN JOSE SHARK8-Signed Perry Berezan, center. Returned Ed Courtenay, right wing, and Mikhail Kraveta. left wing, to Kansas City al the International Hockey League. East Coast Hockey League 
COLUMBUS CHILL-Acquired Brad Trellvlng, defenaeman, from Winston-Salem for cash. 
SOCCER National Profeaelonal Soccer League CHICAGO POWER-Signed Brat Hall, defender, to a 1-y881 contract. 
WALES CONFERENCE  
Patrick Dlv..lon  
w L T  Pte  GF  GA  
New Jersey 3 0 0  8  17  g  
Washington 3 0 0  8  13  7  
NY Rangers 3 1 0  6  12  10  
Pittsburgh 2 0 1  5  13  9  
NY Islanders 1 1 0  2  7  8  
Philadelphia 0 2 1  1  7  13  
Adama Dlvlalon  
Montreal 2 1 1  5  11  8  
Boston 1 2 1  3  13  13  
Quebec 1 2 0  2  11  11  
Hartford 0 1 1  1  4  6  
Buffalo 0 2 1  1  9  12  
CAMPBELL CONFERENCE  
Norrie Dlvlalon  
w L T  Pte  GF  GA  
Minnesota 2 0 0  4  7  4  
Toronto 2 2 0  4  18  14  
Chicago 1 2 1  3  14  17  
St. Louis 1 2 0  2  5  12  
Detroit 0 2 1  1  9  15  
Smythe Dlvlalon  
Vancouwr 3 1 0  6  18  14  
Los Angeles 2 1 1  5  15  15  
Calgary 2 2 0  4  22  12  
Winnipeg 2 2 0  4  15  16  
San Jose 1 3 0  2  13  17  
Edmonton 0 3 1  1  9  20  
Thuraday'a Gamee  
Montreal 4, Detroit 1  
Pittsburgh 6, Philadelphia 3  
Minnesota 3. Quebec 2  
Chicago 7, Vancouver 6  
St. Louis 3, Edmonton 2, OT  
Winnipeg 5, San Jose 4  
Calgary 7, Los Angeles 1  
Frlday'a Game  

N.Y. Rangers at Washington, 7:35p.m 
Saturday'a Gamea Pittsburgh at New Jersey, 1:35 p.m. Montreal a1 Boston, 7:05 p.m. N.Y. Rangers at Hart1ord, 7:35p.m. Philadelphia at N.Y. Islanders, 7:35p.m. Buffalo at Quebec, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at Washington, 7:35 p.m. Calgary at Edmonton, 8:05 p.m. Detroit al Minnesota, 8:05 p.m. Vancouver at Toronto, 8:05p.m. San Jose at St. Louis, 8:35p.m Winnipeg at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. 

BRAVES 1, PIRATES 0 ATLANTA ab r h bl LoSmth If 3 0 0 0 KtMchllf 1 0 0 0 Pnditn 3b 4 0 0 0 Gantd 3 0 2 0 Justice rf 4 1 1 0 Hunter 1b 4 0 1 0 Olson c 4 0 2 0 Lerrite 2b 4 0 2 1 Blliard sa 3 0 0 0 Averyp 4 0 0 0 McCind ph 1 0 0 0 Totale 34 1 8 1 
Atlanta 000 001 000 1 Plttaburgh 000 000 000 0 
~ 
,;
., 
• i.. j 
~ 
Q 


Why settle for apa!tf
when you can have aball. 
The 6" Meatball Sub Only 
I $1.00 OFF I $1.99 SPECIAL I 
I $1.00 off any regular footlong I Buy one regular footlong and large I sandwich. Limit five footlong Coca-Cola at regular price, get a
I I I
sandwiches per order. second regular footlong of equal orI I lesser value or only $1.99. I 
Na valid w~h any aher discount. • Offer ~ a1I all participating locations. • Expires 212 2 I I
Double meats not included. I Na valid w~h any other disoounl. • Offer good at
I all partocipatin9 locations. • Expires 2128192 I 
I I I 
I ~i!l ; IUI;Vil I ~111 ~tnr;pp I 
I I I 
~----------------------~ 
PITTS.  ab  r  h  bl  
Redus 1b  3  0  1  0  
JBell as  4  0  1  0  
VnSiyk d  4  0  0  0  
Bonilla rf  4  0  2  0  
Bonds If  4  0  1  0  
Bechele 3>  3  0  0  0  
Slaught c  3  0  0  0  
Wlkran ph  1  0  0  0  
Lind 2b  3  0  1  0  
ZSmlth p  2  0  0  0  
Mason p  0  0  0  0  
Totala  32  0  I  0  


HOUSES FOR RENT 1992·1993 SCHOOL YEAR 
Super landlords Inexpensive 5 and 6 bedrooms Security Systems $100 off first month's rent with this ad 
Call Irish Rentals 287-4989 Offer expires 11/8/91 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
ITAKE.MY BRILLIANT lDf.A5
~ERES MY FIRST~l\OWTOSURVI~E. .. MYSECR~T?~INK01SJHE COPY lN1Ht 90, AND RETlREAT30 AND DESKTOP PUBllSHtNC:, 
TOMINKO'S, SJTDOWNAl A 
MACI TOSH WDRKS1AiiON,
NEWSLEmR. KILLER. HUH 1 cENTER FOR -mE 90.s • 


~~--------------------------~----------------------------~--------------------------­
Friday, October 11 , 1991 The Observer page 17 
Lefebvre ousted by Mariners 
SEATTLE (AP) Jim Lefebvre was fired today by the Seattle Mariners after leading the team to their first winning season. 
The 49-year-old Lefebvre be­came the fourth manager in four days to be fired and the 12th to be dismissed since April. 
No successor was named although Bucky Dent, who managed the Yankees when Mariners general manager Woody Woodward was in New York, is considered a leading 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Happy 21st Birthday Katie Jones 
~~, Z'eut&~ 
candidate for the job. Dent is a coach with the St. Louis Cardinals. 
"I would like to thank Jim for his three years of hard work and determination," Woodward, who met this morning with Lefebvre in Scottsdale, Ariz., said in a prepared statement. "The entire baseball operations staff and Jim felt it was in the best interest for the organization that a change be made. 
"As far as a successor is con­cerned, we are currently com­



Thanks for your support! Don't count us out • we're getting faster by the day. 




271-1177 
PAPA JOHN'S PREDICTION: 

NOTRE DAME 27 PITTSBURGH 20 
piling a list of candidates. We expect to reach a conclusion within a month." 
Woodward, in Tempe, Ariz., for organizational meetings, said that Mariners coaches Ron Clark and Bill Plummer will be interviewed for the manager's job. 
The Mariners also fired pitching coach Mike Paul, with bullpen coach Dan Warthen be­ing offered that job. Batting coach Gene Clines and first base coach Rusty Kuntz have been asked to return next sea­son. 
A statement by Lefebvre was issued by the Mariners. 
"I would personally like to thank the Seattle Mariners' or­ganization for the opportunity to manage the last three sea­sons." Lefebvre said. "It has been a great three years. 
"I came to Seattle with a mis­sion to make the M's a winner and build fan support. I feel that we've accomplished these goals. I leave with sorrow, but we part with mutual respect and best wishes." 
Lefebvre managed the Mariners to an 83-79 record this year, their first winning mark in 15 seasons. Seattle fin­ished fifth in the AL West, 12 games behind division winner Minnesota. 
This week, the New York Yankees fired Stump Merrill, the Boston Red Sox fired Joe Morgan and the Milwaukee Brewers fired Tom Trebelhorn. 
Under Lefebvre, the Mariners became a hot ticket in Seattle. They set a single-season atten­dance record of 2,147,905, breaking the mark of 1,509,727 set the previous year. 

WE'RE PUTnNG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free Amenca 

Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
ILLIMOI$ • INDIANA 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 
AAA-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'Malley. 
Larmer's hat trick leads Chicago past Vancouver 
CHICAGO (AP) -Steve Lar­mer scored three times as the Chicago Blackhawks, last year's No. 1 team in the NHL, won for the first time this season with a 7-6 victory over the Vancouver Canucks on Thursday night. 
Playing in his 724th consecu­tive game, Larmer scored in the first period, then twice during a five-goal second period to rally the Blackhawks from a 3-1 deficit. His hat trick was the sixth of his career. 
The line of Larmer, Jeremy Roenick and Michel Goulet ac­counted for 12 points. Roenick had a career-high five points, a goal and four assists, and Goulet chipped in with a goal and three assists. 
The Blackhawks, who led the NHL with 106 points during the regular season last year before a first-round knockout in the playoffs. had an 0-2-1 record before Thursday night. The loss was the first of season for Vancouver (3-1-0). 
North Stars 3, Nordiques 2 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. Stewart Gavin, who scored four goals all last season, scored twice as the Minnesota North Stars continued the exceptional play that led them to the Stanley Cup finals last spring with a 3-2 victory over the Quebec Nordiques. 
Brian Propp gave the North Stars the lead for good with 
7:37 left in the second period as the North Stars (2-0-0) im­proved to 22-3-2 in their last 27 home games, including an 8-2 mark in the 1991 playoffs. 

Owen Nolan and Mikhail Tatarinov scored for the Nordiques, who were outshot 44-25. 
Penguins 6, Flyers 3 

PHILADELPHIA -Larry Murphy scored two goals, in­cluding the game-winner, as the Pittsburgh Penguins rallied after breaking a 2-2 tie to de­feat the Philadelphia Flyers 6-3. 
Paul Coffey broke ·the tie at 

6:08 of the second period, scoring his first goal of the season on a feed from Jaromir J agr, as the Flyers lost their home opener. 
The Penguins scored the eventual game-winner at 7:40 of the final period on a power play. Murphy centered a pass through the crease that went in off the skates of Philadelphia defenseman Steve Duchesne. Murphy was given credit for the score. 
Blues 3, Oilers 2, OT 

ST. LOUIS -Brett Hull scored with 29 seconds left in overtime to give the St. Louis Blues a 3-2 win over the Edmonton Oilers. 
Paul Cavallini had two goals and the game-winning assist as the Blues overcame a two-goal deficit to gain their first win of the season after two losses. 
The Oilers had a 2-0 lead with 12:23 left in the game and backup goalie Peter Ing was headed for his second career shutout when Cavallini scored his two power-play goals. 
Hull scored the game-winner when he blasted home the re­bound of a shot by Cavallini. 

@@~[f ®[H]@~ 
~tr . 

OO@IfOO~ @~[M] 
HOn tM Curve" in the Rockne Memorial 
Open Football Weekends Friday 6:30am ·5:00pm rday 6:30am· one hour before Sunday 6:30am-4:0~pm 
QUAUTYGIFTS FROM THE TOP NAMES INGOU' CLASSIC NOTRE DAME LOGOS 
WILSON 
TITLEIST 
RAM AUREUS 
PICKERING 
HAAS JORDAN 
TEXACE AND MANY MORE 

The GolfSlwp aJ Notu Danu i.r o~n March 1 tltrA Clvi.rtmo.s. A. fulllinL of quality Notre Dame apparel and gifts 
IN golfer is aYailab/e. For more informtJlion on 1M UniYersity's golf COIITSe andpro shop, CQ/1: 
(219) 239-6425 


r 
page 18 The Observer Friaay, October 11 , 1991 
,,
.,' Braves tie series; Avery, Pelia combine on six-hitter 
" 
' 
1-0 victory over Pittsburgh ends 33­year Atlanta drought in postseason 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Steve showing rio signs of bunting, he Avery is too young to know the popped up to shortstop. Braves aren't supposed to win Braves manager Bobby Cox in October. felt that was enough for Avery 
The 21-year-old again pitched and summoned Alejandro Pena with poise and Atlanta bounced from the bullpen. Pena put him­back Thursday night to beat the self in further trouble with a Pittsburgh Pirates 1-0 -with a wild pitch that sent Bonilla to chop, naturally -to send the third, but then showed why he NL playoffs south tied at one has been the Braves' saver, and game each. savior, since they got him from 
Mark Lemke's two-hopper the New York Mets in late eluded sure-handed third August. baseman Steve Buechele for an Pena, 12-for-12 in save situa­RBI double in the sixth inning, tions, got Buechele on a and that was enough, barely. grounder back to the mound Avery and Atlanta stopped the and struck out pinch-hitter Braves' 10-game postseason Curtis Wilkerson on three· losing streak. pitches to end it. The Braves 
"All we could have asked for rushed to the mound to cele­was a split," Avery said. "We brate and ran off the field sig­didn't score a lot of runs, but nalling with tomahawk chops. we won." "He sure doesn't pitch like a 
Avery gave up six hits in 8 1-3 21-year-old," catcher Greg innings, struck out nine and, Olson said. "He pitched a lot of unlike Tom Glavine in the big games down the stretch, but opener, shut down Pittsburgh's none were as big as this." middle of the order for the most Even the largest crowd in part. Plus, he was at his best Pirates' home history, 57,533,
I when it really counted in the did not rattle Avery. And when
I 
late innings. he walked off the mound after 
"It was just too much Steve getting Van Slyke in the eighth, Avery," Pirates manager Jim he punched at the air as a small Leyland said. "We probably section of Braves' fans began ~ould have played two more the team's war chant. hours and not scored against It figures to be a lot louder him. It was the best stuff I've Saturday for Game 3 in Atlanta seen this year." in front of the Braves' frenzied 
Avery retired Game 1 hero fans. John Smiley (20-8) will 
Andy Van Slyke on a grounder start for Pittsburgh against 
with runners on first and third John Smoltz (14-13). 

I to end the eighth inning. Then The Pirates were baseball's in the ninth, Bobby Bonilla led best road team this year, goingl off with a double, making him 46-3 2. But they were 0-6 in 
6-for-12 lifetime against Avery. Atlanta.

l That brought up Barry Bonds, The Braves had not won in and with the Pirates' star the postseason since Warren 


AP File Photo Braves slugger David Justice scored the only run in Atlanta's 1-0 win over Pittsburgh last night in game two of the National League Championship Series. Justice scored on Mark Lemke's sixth-inning double. 
Spahn beat the New York moved to second on Olson's baseman. But this time, he did Yankees in Game 4 of the 1958 one-out grounder, setting up the not get the job done. World Series. They lost the last game's critical play. Instead, with Lemke well three games in that series and Smith worked carefully with down the line, Buechele seemed were swept in three games in Lemke, who had singled and to want to snare the grounder the NL playoffs by the Mets in flied to the warning track. On a and snap a tag on Justice. The 1969 and St. Louis in 1982. 3-2 pitch, Lemke hit a chopper ball appeared to take a slightly 
Zane Smith matched zeros near the third base bag as bad hop, and it zinged past with Avery, and even escaped a Buechele and Justice both ap­Buechele in to the left-field bases-loaded, none-out jam in proached. corner for a double. It snapped the second inning. Buechele, acquired in a trade an 0-for-18 Braves' slump with 
In the sixth, though, the with Texas in August, has al­runners on base, including 0­Braves broke through. David ready set an AL record for the for-8 with runners in scoring Justice led ofT with a single and best-fielding season by a third position. 
t 
l 
) 
) ( 
i 
j 
.. 


Man cannot live by football alone. Call Domino's Pizza: 
.. 

NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
271-0300 289-0033 
1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 

Look Who's Got The Best Deals On Campus! 
STUDENT SPECIAL! LARGE $ 99
ONE TOPPING 
ADDITIONAL

PIZZA SECOND PIZZA 
TOPPINGS

$41VIORE! 
AVAILABLE 

LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. 
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE 
TWO SMALL PEPPERONI  $  99  
PIZZAS  ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS AVAILABLE  
OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY.  

LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. 
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. "belivery area limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are noi penalized for late deliveries . 
Friday, October 11-, 1991 
The Observer page 19 
MCC considers expanding by two teams 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Officials from Bradley and Creighton, both members of the Missouri Valley Conference, will meet with the commissioner of the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference later this month to discuss joining the conference, according to a published report. 
The Evansville Press reported Thursday that Tucker DiEd­warda, the MCC commissioner, is scheduled to meet with the president, vice president, athletics director and faculty athletics representative of Creighton on Oct. 22, one day after a scheduled meeting with Bradley officials. 
DiEdwardo, however, would only say that joining the MCC "is still in the investigative stages," for seven potential members and that "senior ad­ministration at many of those 
universities are in the process Loyola College of Maryland at of discussing the possibility ... the Sept. 30 meetings. 
The commissioner said the The feeling among MCC lead­talks were in a very sensitive ers is the decision-makers at stage and that he did not want Creighton are "very serious" 
to discuss anything that might undermine the process. 
The report comes following an exploratory meeting held in Indianapolis last week with representatives of seven NCAA Division I schools to discuss the MCC, which currently consists of the universities of Evansville, Detroit, Butler, Dayton, Loyola of Chicago and Xavier of Ohio. 
According to the newspaper, representatives of Bradley and Creighton were joined by Drake of the Missouri Valley Con­ference, Atlantic 10 members St. Joseph's and Duquesne, and Mid-Atlantic Athletic Con­ference members La Salle and 
OCTOBER SPECIAL French Crepes 
Strawberry. Cherry Peach, Or Palestine All Flavors 

No Coupon Needed 
Serving Michiana For Over 2n Years 
U.S. 31 (llilieway) Nerth in RoselaniJ-(Acrlss rr. lllliday Ia) 212·7433 
about joining, and that Bradley is ready to jump leagues -if another school joins, too, the Press said. 
The MVC schools represent the "western" half of the MCC push to develop a two-division, East-West conference. 
MCC officials are expecting Loyola (Md.) athletic director Joe Boylan to recommend this week that the Baltimore school affiliate with the MCC. If that happens, that could spur Duquesne to follow. 
LaSalle, located in Philadel­phia, also is very interested, the newspaper reported. 
MCC officials believe that if Loyola (Md.) and Duquesne 
of 

Situation at LSU depresses Tiger faithful in Baton Rouge 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) ­These are dark days at the Pastime Lounge. 
The crowds still jam into the hodgepodge of rooms before Louisiana State football games. The "po' boy" sand­wiches are as tasty as ever, the beer as cold, but the zest has gone out of the biggest item dished up at the longtime watering hole. 
"We still talk about the Tigers," said Mike Aucoin. "It's just it's more like the way you talk at a funeral these days instead of like a party. We don't have any gloating rights these days. You know, when you gloat over how you're going to kick butt at Alabama or Georgia? We can't even kick butt at Vanderbilt." 

$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 Off with Coupon 
Live Bands Coming Nov lsi Thur • Sun Molly Hatchel 
ef' Halloween Specials every 
Costume Party nite on food Oct 31st 1516 N.lronwood Cash Prizes 
and beverage 

$1 off Any Burger Combo $1 off 
Owned and _Operated by NO Alumni 
-------------------1Auburn to come under the 
With Louisiana State 1-3 ­the only victory a 16-14 win over Vanderbilt -and still facing a tough schedule that includes Florida State, Alabama and Mississippi State, the gloating long ago turned into moaning in this town that places football right up there with mom and apple pie. 
"People are real disap­pointed," Bob Wesley said. "Not so much in Curley Hallman as they are in the athletic director. They blame Joe Dean for the last coach and they blame the last coach for the problems the team's having. He didn't win and he didn't recruit. People know Hallman can't win with these scrubs." 
Dye faces tough road ahead as Tigers struggle 
AUBURN, Ala. (AP)-These are tough times for Auburn coach Pat Dye. 
In recent weeks, he has seen his team lose two straight games and heard allegations that former player Eric Ramsey received payoffs and other ille­gal benefits while in school. Earlier this year, Ramsey also accused the footbal1 program of being racist. 
The NCAA is looking into Ramsey's allegations, making football the third sport at 
Do the wave atthe Wharf. 
Doing the "wave" at Notre Dame football games is practically an institution. And so is going to the Wharf Restaurant for the freshest seafood, beef and chicken entrees in town! Notre Dame fans have been enjoying the Wharf's fabulous lunches and dinners for years! And our salad buffet and Sunday Brunch have reputations that are second to none! When you need to satisfy a winning appetite, follow the wave to the Wharf Restaurant. 
300 East Colfax at the River 234-44n 
-


agency's scrutiny this year. The men's basketball and tennis programs are already facing possible NCAA penalties. 
That's bad news for Dye, who is also the school's athletic di­rector. So how is he coping with all this adversity? 
"I just try to draw from my past experiences," he said Wednesday. ''I'm still keeping my hope and faith and trying to pull things out." 
Dye underwent surgery over the summer to fix a stomach problem, and he insists he's fine now. But his football team is struggling. After winning their first three games, the Tigers have dropped two in a row to Tennessee and Southern Mississippi. 
Dye, nicknamed "Pat Tie" be­cause he has played for ties in the past, went for the win against Southern Mississippi. But the Tigers, who have suf­fered a slew of injuries, failed on a 2-point conversion in the closing minutes and lost 10-9. 


'­
1' 
li'
I 
\I 
~~ 
.l, 
l 
I 
\f, 
\ '\ 
:~ 
'I 
I~ 
II \ 
l~ 
l~ ' 
~ \ ~ \ 
I~ 
I 
II,l 
li fII 
!li :)t 
iI~ 
! i) :I\
,(; 
\\ 
(
.,, 
~ 
..l: 
II 
.), 
,t 
I) 
_!\ 
d 
•! 
,,<I 
I 
1;r 
I 
,) 
,:, 
! 
I / 1 
! 
d 
u 
I' 
I 
i',, 
ji 
,, 
-,.­
d 
Jl
,, 
page 20 The Observer 
New-look Sooners meets up with Texas 
DALLAS (AP) -Air Okla­homa. 
Sooner fans, used to a grind­it-out style of football, are being treated to the forward pass this year, and it's given the Texas Longhorns added worry heading into Saturday's annual Red River showdown in the Cotton Bowl. 
The sixth-ranked Sooners (4­
0) have taken the excellent passing arm of Cale Gundy to new dimensions. 
For two consecutive weeks, the Sooners had more passing than rushing yardage. The last time that happened was in 1967. 
Gundy, a 6-foot, 190-pound sophomore, set a school record for attempts with 31 in Oklahoma's 27-17 victory over Virginia Tech. His 18 comple-
Pitt 
continued from page 24 
excellent, particularly Keith Hamilton is an outstanding de­fensive tackle. When you go with Curtis Bray, Hamilton and Sean Gilbert, you're talking about three highly recruited football players who will prob­ably be as good as any we'll play against." 
However Holtz was not en­tirely positive in his assessment of the Panther game plan. Holtz, in viewing game films, apparently noticed several Pitt wide receivers engage in dan­gerous blocking techniques. Holtz would not divulge the topic of his Monday conversa­tion with Hackett. Hackett, though, was openly displeased. 
"It was psychological war­fare," Hackett told the Associated Press. "I understand he does that to you. Everybody's got their own style and that's his. He tried to do that with young head coaches, to rattle them a little ... anything he can do to get an edge." 
Whatever game plan Holtz may have in mind, it will have to include a way to hinder the aerial exploits of Pitt quarter­back Alex Van Pelt, who is 88­145 for 1,056 yards, eight touchdowns and three intercep­tions this year. Last year, Van Pelt toasted the Irish secondary for 384 yards on 3 7 -of-51 passing. 
"They're most effective when they can run the football," said Holtz. "But make no mistake about it, this is Van Pelt's foot­ball team. He does what he has to do to win. I think it's just one reason why they're 5-0 and a very solid football team." 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 
said Schafer. "But I think he'll regain his old self in short order." 
A group of freshman will be on one of the top lines. Center John Rushin and wings Brent Lamppa and Troy Cusey will be played together to develop a familiarity to pay dividends in the future as well as the pre­sent. 
"Overall, we have a year of experience, we're a little bit ! tronger, and a little bit deeper," said Schafer. "These are exciting times for Notre Dame hockey." 
And they're even more excit­ing now that the Irish pro­gram's long-term investments are starting to pan out. 

tions also was a school mark. 
"You have to throw the ball effectively to win these days," Gundy said. "Everybody knows that. Now, if a team takes away the run, we can hit them with the pass. We take what the de­fense gives. That's how you win national championships." 
Gundy was critical of Oklahoma's strategy in a 14-13 loss to Texas last year. 
"To win a national champi­onship, you have to throw the ball down the field, you can't run dives up the middle," Gundy said after the bitter loss 
by  the  then  fourth-ranked  
Sooners.  
Texas  coach  David  

McWilliams has taken note. He said Oklahoma throws the ball as good as any Sooner team he has seen. 
"They're catching the ball very well, too," he said. "Gundy is scrambling very well. They keep you spread out more and put pressure on the front four and linebackers." 
Texas has beaten Oklahoma the last two years on passing. Peter Gardere has thrown the winning touchdown pass two years in a row against the Sooners. 
Making Gundy effective is a sophomore split end, Corey Warren, who caught touchdown passes of 3 7 and 31 yards against Iowa State. 
"Warren has a knack for get­ting open, and I feel like we can go against a man-for-man de­fense anytime," Gundy said . 
Texas plays man-for-man. 
"Warren is a big time, big game receiver," Gundy said. 


t 





~·· J ' 

The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey Quarterback Rick Mirer has completed 63.6 percent of his passes during the '91 season. His play will be crucial against Pitt on Saturday. 
Great Tastes Begin Here... 
2041 Cassopolis Elkhart, IN 262-1500 
121 S. Niles South Bend, IN 


Restaurant 234-9000 

120 N. Main Mishawaka, IN 255-7737 
Reservations A reciated 
IFR0.\1 THE DIRECTOR Or "MY LIH A-; AI:Xx;" I 
ENTERTAINING WONDER!" 
-hm \\ luk·, PH't-I\ 
"ENDEARJNGLY OFF-BAlANCE!" 
-\ltLl·C Llr~ I'\ IOIJ\l 
"Two 
THUMBS UP!" 
... >1.11 A IKIMI 


RICHARD DREYFl'SS HOLLY Hl':"--TER DA:\~Y AIELlO LAlRA SA~ GIACO"O A.\D GE~A ROWLA~DS 
&IIC&~~ 
Friday, October 11, 1991 
SPORTS SHORTS 
•eUCKHANNONt W.Va. (AP) -the family of West Virginia Wesleyan tailback Chris Copeland on Friday will accept on his behalf a Distinguished Service Award from the .Columbus. Ohio. Division of Fire. Copeland, who is from Pickerington, Ohio, earned the award for his action to evacuate a burning apartment com­plex. Fire officials said Copeland and a friend spotted flames at the Highland Park Complex in Columbus as they returned to Pickerington after a Fourth of July fireworks show. They used a car phone to call frrefighters. then entere-d the building and began banging on doors. "I wouldn't call myself a hero," Copeland said. "I was just someone who was trying to help out. You would think that anyone would do that much... _ _•--_ 
0___ .lvm»it•'u;lmpttiJion doubtful fgr ~~~~ri@@QUtll -.. "" 
•DECATUR, Ala.-NBA stars w1U play.-in the Olympics next year, but don't-expect to see major league·baseball players in the Games anytime soon...Other countries won't vote for it... said Ron Fraser. the Miami coach who will manage the American baseball team at the Barcelona Olympics. Since a professional contingent ­even a group of experienced minor leaguers -is out of the question, Fmser's '92 team has little chance of winning the gold. ..We're always younger, .. Fraser explained .• ,.And the Cubans have been playing together for years.,. 

·~E. •··-·_.YORK,._.... Jeff 1'~rborg agre(;)d !o~ay to qvit the C}tic;lgo 
White Sox; at}d become manager ofthe ~~\V York Mets. The Mets called anews.c;onference for Friday.an.d.a source_ said \he team 
had received permission from the Cf)'mmissioner·s office to announce the hirtng of Tor borg. ibe Whi~e Sox said they, too. 
expectedTorborg'sswitch to New Y()rk and the Mets didn't deny it. ..If the Mets are calling a news conferenee~l would say it's going to 
about him."White.Sox senior vice prest9ftnt Jack Gould said. 
ntin _ ___ ,._,_ SANTA R~,{\ttA• Calif. ---:.. A():~~t~t .. ~ho trt;ated Joe Montan~;~~lb()'*f.~(l found an__ .unstabl·-~~d \Yeakefied•_ shoulder that mig}jt ~i~~~~;~~lle San Francisco q~~~terblitk•s attempt at a cornback•• nex:t ,§~~SC,))l~'A torn _.tendon to ~n'il~ap,a.I~ right _·elbow.•was 
re.~tta.c~~qin' ~0?9~,-minute pro~edu!'~ yy~~~e.sf)ay_ .night. by __ l):r. Michael Pillln~tiarn~ the team pbysicj~~; Pillingham said th~ ~urger~. ~~ ~~;¥~~ica;~ly su<jc~ssful ~~~ ;~~~~.i!pen~ __ is ..a good
Chance .Montan•.~!!~-play agam~. alth()Qg}il)~ probably won't be able !~throwl.lntil?n~xt May,_ -w·-·· i·ti[;i:j~·_-#ki 
Don't Forget 

Shoney's Seafood Bar 
Friday and Saturday Starting at 5:00 p.m. 


~03 Dixie Way South. Roseland 
Available only at Shoney's welcomes the participating reslauidnts. American Express• Card. Cards 
• 


.,
------------.;....._----=--------------------------­



-

.~ : ' \·,..... :. '·t ,. .-I \. -,,. J ,.... 
page 21

Friday, October 11, 1991 The Observer 
Women's tennis team travels to Brown Invitational 
By RICH SZABO The Irish will send Melissa will be rested from most of the this young fall season, said, "I some of them." Sports Writer Harris, last week's top-flight fall schedule. hope we can continue to play The players also are glad to winner, and Laura Schwab, the Likewise, senior Katie Clark like we did last weekend. have one tournament under On the heels of a successful runner-up, in the number-one will not make the trip, as she is maybe a little better. If we play their belt. debut in the 1991 fall season, flight. At the second flight will recovering from a back injury, that well early. we can't be "This weekend looks good," 
the Notre Dame women's tennis be Christy Faustmann and Lisa but should be available for next satisfied. We need to go out and said Doran. "Everyone should team looks to continue its Tholen, with Ann Bradshaw weekend's MCC Championships play a little better each time. feel more comfortable in the strong play as it takes to the and Terri Vitale in flight three in either singles or doubles. There will be quite a few matches now that we're rid of 
road this weekend to compete and Kristy Doran, Eniko Bende, Irish coach Jay Louderback, ranked players (at Brown), so the first-tournament jitters. We at the Brown Invitational in and Catherine McGinley in flight in evaluating his team's play in we·ll have a shot at playing practiced outdoors. so we're 
Providence. prepared for any weather con­
number four. 

Notre Dame is coming ofT an In the doubles competition, ditions. We're going to have a 
impressive performance at its the Irish will mix teams up a dual match with Tennessee own Irish Invitational last little from last week, experi­(Nov. 8), and it will be good to weekend, taking the top three menting with different combi­scout them out and see how spots in the first-singles flight, nations before the spring sea­they play. We can see what and turning in quality perfor­son begins. Tholen and progress we've made since we mances in all other flights as Faustmann will play in the first played them at the end of last well. flight, with Bradshaw and year." 
The Brown Invitational will Bende at two, Vitale and As an added bonus, based on see the likes of Brown, Yale, their performances so far this
Schwab at three, and Doran Dartmouth, Princeton, Rice, and McGinley at four. year, three Irish players­Washington, and 15th-ranked For the second straight Harris, Schwab and Faustmann 
Tennessee. The format is basi­weekend, the Irish will be with­-have received qualifying 
cally similar to the Irish tour­out the services of Tracy invitations for the All-American nament, with four singles and Barton, their number-one sin­Tournament in Los Angeles, .. four doubles flights of competi­gles player and the 23rd-ranked starting on October 22. tion. player in the country. Barton "It's a national tournament," 
said Louderback, "so it will give them a chance to play against national-level players. The ex­perience will be great for them." 
Right now. however, the Irish have their minds set on Brown, and on showing the college ten­nis world that they are for real. There would not be a better place for ND to do this than on the road against tough compe­tition. 
"The teams are much stronger this weekend," said Bradshaw. "It's ha.rd going away for the weekend. It's draining, and you have to have more mental strength. We have 
s·
to find the drive within us, so this will be a real test. It will show our grit." 


Catch the of 
(.) ( T .. I' : /-; -I ·~ li I 
I ··--.
Notre Dame Tradition 
.-.... '· 
The Official University of Notre Dame

nd pass 

Sesquicentennial Desk Calendar Spiral bound for convenient use as an appoint­ment book, this exquisite 16-month desk calen­dar-containing 16 full-color photos of campus 
~ .... -.......~
ton 

scenes-is the perfect guide to the celebration of Notre Dame's 150th birthday. 
-s' . 
... ,.
$1Y.95 cloth


ith I 
I I 

•• • ~ > .... •'tj .
•.­
.~· ofl\11-.. 
f. ..\ .,........_.~.. 
:·i··~-: :·:.a-~~ ..!,·~ ~· O'Malley of Notre Datne John W. Meaney The University of Notre Dame This book chronicles the spirit A Portrait of Its History and Campus c11ld dedication of one of 
Thomas J. Schlereth ,---------------. 
Notre Dame's most 

Using over 430 photographs,-maps, and The University of Notre Dame famous teachers. drawings, Schlereth brings to life the people 
.·1 l!wh.l:f,,' ft., Ht.~h'n• ,jluf (,w:rr,.._.. 
7...... :
$10.95 paper and moments that made Notre Dame. $32.95 doth, $18.95 paper 
EDWA~O fiSCHER 
, ._; ·_ 
·:.. ..... .~ 

NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY OF NCYfRE i)AMEA 
CONTE!\1ll()R.AJ\Y 

University of Notre Dame: 
J>l)RTRAJT 
A Contemporary Portrait 

Notre Dame Remembered 
Second Edition 

An Autobiography
-.
l' ~~ ~ 
Robert P. Schmuhl
"-n ~ ,J 'II r·• • • • 
. \ l . 

Edward Fischer
The words and 78 color and black-and­
-. . ..... l•­
.. 

''Well-written and bighearted, 
white photographs in this book provide the 
1 
,,, i.1 "l!P:\ 

most up-to-date portrait of the University of this will be great for Notre Notre Dame available. Damers."-The Kirkus Reviews $Y.Y5 paper $12.95 paper 



page 22 The Observer Friday, October 11, 1991 


i 
' '( 
, 
I 
1; 
r 
I 
II •of 
-~ 
lj 

GRADUATING MIS & CAPP SENIORS 

Put Yoursell In The Picture 

ReceptionWednesday, November 13 5pm-7pm Dooley Room, LaFortune 
On-campus Interviews Thursday, November 14 
a creative, highly aware, focused go­~u know us as Maxwell House 
coffee, Jell-0 gelatin, Miracle Whip, getter, stop by the Reception1Pi7.741. 
Velveeta cheese, Kool-Aid, Party. We are eager to discuss 
Philadelphia Brand cream cheese, challenges and choices with May 
Oscar Mayer hot dogs, Claussen Graduates who have a background 
pickles, Tombstone pizza and in one of the following areas: 
Entenmann's cookies-to name a few. 
• MIS 

We're Kraft General Foods, a familiar •CAPP sight in-almost every American home ­
There's a world of opportunities at and millions ofothers worldwide. 
Kraft General Foods. So please visit Meet the people behind the products. 
with us -and what you'll hear could KGF's representatives are coming to lead to a very colorful career. Look talk with graduating seniors interested for us on campus this fall. An Equal in a postion in Information Systems Opportunity/ Affirmative Action within the Chicagoland area. If you're Employer. 
KAAFT GENERAL FOODS 
A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES 
Men 
continued from page 24 
now," commented sophomore Mike Palmer. "Offensively, we just have to control the ball more." 
It won't be easy for the Irish against Butler, but with the MCC tournament looming ahead, they recognize the im­portance of each conference game. 
"This weekend is really im­portant," Palmer noted. "We want to be in the best position we can for the MCC tournament and maybe even the NCAA tournament." 

With those stakes, emotions will be running high Sunday afternoon as both teams jockey for position not only in the con­ference, but in the NCAA tour­nament picture. Much of the young Irish team is facing this type of pressure for the first time, but they appear confident going into this weekend's ac­tion. 
"We feel like we can beat anyone," Palmer said, "but we have to get emotionally pumped up against Butler." 
Although a letdown is possible after the team's great per­formance on the road, it shouldn't be too difficult for the Irish to get pumped up with a good seed in the MCC tour­nament and a possible NCAA tournament bid on the line. 
Although the conference schedule comes to an end Sunday, some tough competi­tion remains on the Irish slate. DePaul visits Moose Krause field Friday night before the Irish travel to Georgetown and the South Carolina Met Life Classic over fall break. 

Women 
continued from page 24 
tournam~nt. The Lady Hawks enter the contest at 8-3-1, and are a very experienced team. Seniors Jeanette Goepfert,who has five goals and five assists on the year, and Jamie Roberto, who has added three goals and two assists, provide the Lady Hawks with a potent combina­tion up front. Goalkeeper Jeanette Nash, another senior, has posted six shutouts in twelve games this season. 
"Monmouth is a scrappy, tough team," Petrucelli com­

mented, "They have done well at the WAGS tournament and will be a good game for us." 
In addition to their team record 10-game unbeaten streak, the Irish will be at­tempting to extend a few other streaks this weekend. They have a six-game winning streak, which started on September 20th with a 4-0 win over Michigan State. 
Also, the Irish defense has not allowed a goal in the past two games, and Notre Dame goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga takes a personal four-game shutout streak into this week­end's action. 
AT AZAR·s 


Now that you've dam.::.>d 
the night away, you need to satisfy those midnight 
munchies. So check out the new LATE NITE menu at Azar·s. 
It features lots of great food at great prices: 
• Five Fluffy Omelettes 

• 
Six Moonlight Breakfasts 

• 
Four Starlight Sandwiches 

• 
Eight Dreamy Desserts 


• 
More than 10 other Sides and Beverages 


The next time yOLne not quite to call it a night, heao to the nearest Azar's Big Boy Family 

Restaurant for the all-
new LATE NITE menu. It'll tame the 
Munchies. 
AP~· 
BigBoy 
Family Restaurants 





Friday, October 11, 1991 The Observer page 23 THE FAR SIDE
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

10-11 


"My marriage is in trouble, Barbara. You ever tried communicating with a hammerhead?" 
MIN 0 Yo.l, .tC.OtJLDN'T CARE LESS, BUT I C.Er FRE:.~ B££R 
A Do IH£5£ llllli"S 
NAM£.: MAN, FAD OCWPAT!ON: 
~INOJ~ ViU.AII'I 
MODUS Of£11ANQ_i: !>~EA~Nin Rit.t.V 
0f!NOXJOIJ5 TR£NOY SlUFF 
ALL o'IGR 'ntt; PLACE" d.!J.AS• : Cibl~ NIt M~ 

©Edward Ju 1 ius Collegiate CW8829 53 Vena-13 Part of ancient
ACROSS 

;­ 1 Lists of names 8 Tells 15 Level of authority 16 Scholarly 17 Capacity to endure 18 Gruesome  54 Mr. Gers h1~i n Italy 55 City in Kentucky 14 Female prophet 57 Letters engraved on 21 Maize bread a tombstone 24 Harmony of 58 All together (2 wds.) relation 60 Carpentry joint 26 Rubber band 62 Not one nor the 28 Site of 1945  
19 Male  cat  other  conference  
20 Fatty 22 Continent {abbr.) 23 Shortened form (abbr.)25 Popeye's girlfriend 26 To be: Fr. 27 Type of race 29 -jump 30 The ----{Mt. range) 31 Mine-boring tool 33 Belonging to The Hoosier State  63 Famous reindeer 64 De1 i ri um -65 Bird dogs DOWN 1 Begin again 2 Black Tuesday's month 3 Shuffling gait 4 Egyptian god 5 Charles Lamb's  30 Directed toward 32 Prefix for withstanding 34 German article 36 Endures 38 Completely surrounding 39 Student, e.g. 40 City in Wyoming 41 Double 43 Greed 44 Editor  
35 Cultivate 37 Precious stones 38 Apportioned 42 Slow down 46 Comedienne Ann -47 Out of: Ger.  pen name 6 Musical piece 7-pace8 Taking away 9 Expunge 10 Publisher  45 Dealers in cloth 48 Mailing necessities 51 City in Germany 52 Nighttime noise 55 Tennis great Arthur­ 
49 Olympics entrant 50 Mr. Maverick 51 French states  Henry R. -11 Society of dentists 12 Native of Lhasa  56 "Darn i t !" 59 Prefix: air 61 Dynamite  

MENU 

Notre Dame 
Baked Pollack Sesame Vegetable Rice Casserole 
Swedish Meatballs with Mushroom Sauce Pork Tenderloin 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Ragiout Burgandy Chicken Fajitas Deli Bar 
CAMPUS 
Friday 

7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Once Around." An­nenburg Auditorium. Sponsored by Notre Dame Commu­nication and Theatre. 
• 8:0~ p.m. _an~ 10:30 p.m. Film: "City Slickers." Cushmg Auditonum. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
8:10 p.m. "The Crucible." Directed by Father Arthur Harvey, Washington Hall. Sponsored by Communication and Theatre. 
Saturday 
7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Once Around." An-• nenburg Auditorium. Sponsored by Notre Dame Commu­• nication and Theatre. 
8:00 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Film: .. City Slickers." Cushing Auditorium. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
8:10 p.m. "The Crucible." Directed by Father Arthur Harvey, Washington Hall. Sponsored by Communication and Theatre. 
Sunday 

3:10 p.m. "The Crucible." Directed by Father Arthur 
Harvey, Washington Hall. Sponsored by Communication and Theatre. 


Yesterday they were businessmen. Today they're cowboys. 
•'THE BEST MOVIE OF THE SUMMER!u 

Tomorrow they'll be walking funny. 
Don't miss CITY SLICKERS 
Friday, October 11 & Cushing Auditorium Admission is $2.00
Saturday, October 12 
8:00 and 10:30 PM 
STUDENT UNION_ BOARD 

-~---~~--------------~--------------~---.--~--------~~..~~~--~--~----~--~ 

Sports 

page 24 Friday, October 11, 1991 

Soccer teams look to build upon winning streaks 
Men host Butler 
Women head to 
•

in key battle for Virginia for two MCC lead against top foes 
By JASON KELLY By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Writer Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's streaking men's The Notre Dame women's soccer team will look for its soccer team will put its unde­fifth consecutive win Sunday feated record on the line when afternoon against Butler in a it trayels to Virginia this week­crucial Midwestern Collegiate end for a crucial two-game Conference match at Alumni road trip. The Irish will take on Field. the Tribe of William & Mary 
Four straight road wins have today at 4 p.m. and the improved the team's record to Monmouth (N.J.) College Lady 6-3-1 overall and 3-1-1 in the Hawks in the WAGS tourna­MCC, which puts them in the ment on Sunday at 10:30 a.m. hunt for the conference crown William & Mary was ranked and its automatic NCAA tour­in the top 20 nationally until nament bid. September 23, and will severely 
Coach Mike Berticelli's Irish test the Irish. The Tribe's 5-6 excelled on offense and defense record is deceiving because during their recent road trip, their tough schedule, which in­and the same effort will be cludes eight ranked teams. needed to knock ofT the tough Their attack is led by junior Bulldogs in the final conference Erin McGonegal, who leads the game of the regular season. squad with four goals and two 
assists, and senior Rebecca 
Butler boasts 10 returning Wakefield, who was rated as starters and 25 returning let­one of the ten ·best players in termen from last year's im­the country in the preseason. pressive 14-6 campaign. & 
Bulldog star Scott Lawler, who "William & Mary is tradition­
I' .,I 
I; 
notched 17 goals and 43 points ally one. of the best teams in the 
f· I' I in 1990, will be a focal point for country," Irish coach Chris the Irish defense along with Petrucelli said. "We are going Jeff Kurtz, who collected 21 to have to convert on the few points last season. chances that we get-they will 
"The key is to play really be few." · · good defense because that's the On Sunday, Notre Dame will high point of our team right The Observer/Andrew McCloskey take on Monmouth in the WAGS 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team, led by senior co-captain Susie Zilvitis (shown here v. Michigan 
see MEN/ page 22 

State), puts its six-game winning streak on the line this weekend against William & Mary and Monmouth. see WOMEN/ page 22 
I(
I 
Hockey team hopes· added year of experience pays big dividends 
By RICH KURZ at'16-15-2 and have good rea­" said Schafer. athletic ability. a new ballgame. It's not just six Associate Sports Editor son to expect to improve on that And what a schedule it is. ''I've noticed in our scrim­or eight times a year we'll be record with another year of Following in the Notre Dame mages, either I've gotten slower playing top teams, it's on a 
A number of years ago, Coach experience under their belts. tradition of scheduling the best or they've gotten a whole lot regular basis," said Schafer. Ric Schafer and the re.st of the Coach Schafer feels that he can possible opponents, the hockey faster," said Schafer. "I know In addition to the nucleus of athletic department made a see the difference at this early team will get a good measuring we're stronger. The weight players returning from last number of investments, hoping point in the season. stick of where they stand in the training is now paying some year, the Irish can expect con­they would pay dividends in the "It's starting to pay some college hockey world. dividends. It's been going on tributions from some other future. Well, the future is now. dividends. Just our familiarity • The Irish will face preseason since they were freshmen and places. Kevin Patrick, last year's 
The Notre Dame hockey team on the team. We used to be­number-one Michigan, second­we get some fairly fit players. captain, is coming ofT a season has recently joined the Central moan the fact that we were ranked Maine and top-15 teams It's not just big muscles. It's shortened considerably by a Collegiate Hockey Association, young, but this is the year we're New Hampshire and Western body fat under 10 percent, just severe knee injury, but he'll be 
the powerhouse conference of much more mature than what Michigan. more finely-tuned athletes." ready to contribute to the 
college hockey. They also return we had been. That gives us a With the tests ahead of it, With big things expected of success of the team. all contributing players, and reason for optimism going into Notre Dame will have to be im­the team this year, they've "He's coming around. He's have added a number of the season, but it's guarded op­proved in all aspects of the taken a hardnose approach to been out of action, you can tell,"promising freshmen. timism, because our schedule game. Another area Schafer has getting the job done. 
see HOCKEYI page 20 
The Irish finished last season has also improved considerably, seen progress in is overall "Everyone ... recognizes it's 

Irish go for four in a row at home against Pitt 
By DAVE DIETEMAN sent packing with a 45-7 Irish Sports Editor rout. Last season, were it not for 
The rivalry between Pitt and Raghib "Rocket" Ismail's 76­Notre Dame has been over­yard touchdown run which iced looked in recent times-in part the 31-22 Irish win, Panther 
because the Panthers have lost coach Paul Hackett could have Gamel three in a row at the hand of been savoring the 17th Pitt win 
the Irish. 
over Notre Dame instead of
~es~;;er;;~4 . Pitt's recent prowess has not what might have been. escaped the watchful eye of Lou This year. Hackett's crew mayHoltz, however. have what it takes to dump
Toront~5, ~~ 

"They're 5-0, they're number Notre Dame. (sen~ tied 1-1) .,.,:·~c~ 12 in the country and I'm sure As if the return skills of their attitude is at an all-time Stanford's Glyn Milburn did not 
_ .Game 3---~· ~; :~+; 

high,.. remarked Holtz at his tax the Irish special teams
/<~Oct..l!~tfforQllto .. -~ Tuesday tdeconference. "Pitt enough, Steve
Pitt's Israel .~/ ··Game.,;··.·..;.. ·· has given up 11 points a game should keep the pressure on. average, and that is almost un­The Panthers are ranked sec­

;.! . sat., Oct;t2:.atTorontp 
heard of in today's football." ond in the nation in kickoff re­
. ,·>G.ime s :~::. · 

·' . ...._ turns (30.8-yard average), and !: Sun.;Oct. 13 at Toronto Saturday will mark the tenth Israel is ranked fifth in kick re­
i time that a Pittsburgh team has turns as an individual. 
''· ~ame 6*~; .. · 
come into the Notre Dame "Israel is a good defensive Tues., Och.JS at M~esota game undefeated. Luckily for back and kick returner, and re­
the Irish, they have prevailed in all~ gives you an awful lot of eight of those ten matchups. concern in that area,.. said
Wed., Oc~~-~~sota 

most recently in 1989. In '89, Holtz. "Their defensive line is the Panthers came to South 
j ... 

. , Bend 5-0-1, but were rudely see PITT/ page 20 

• ~· .. t ,_ ·-~-~ '!' ., 

GAME INFO 
THE GAME: Pittsburgh (5-0} at Notre Dame (4-1}. 
TIME: 12:30 p.m. South Bend time. 
TV & RADIO: NBC (Dick Enberg, Bill Walsh, John Dockery} will televise the game to a national audience. Host Creative Communications [Jim Henderson, Paul Hornung} will replay the game on numerous syndicated SportsChannel stations, including WNDU-1V in South Bend (12:30 a.m. EST Monday] and SportsChannel Chicago (8 a.m. EST Sunday}. The Mutual Radio Network {Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna} will broadcast the game to 280 stations across the country, including AM-1490 and AM-960 in South Bend and WMAQ-AM in Chicago. 
TICKETS: The game is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: NCSW 7th; AP 8th. Pittsburgh: NCSW 14th; AP 12th. 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads 35­16-1, despite Pittsburgh's having won three of the last six and five of the last eleven games. While the Irish have won three straight (1988, '89, and '90}, Pittsburgh had previously won three straight (1983, '86, '87}. 
THE LAST TIME: Notre Dame 31, Pittsburgh 22. 

1991 SCHEDULES 
.·:: ·:.:::::·. :.. :<: ?/~_y):)>·:~::·:::·>>::· . . 
PliTti~O~G~ i ) .. 
.::-:::}\\:_.:·:-:-:> . .:::;::._·. 

t~<~1 ~~~~~~fJ~j ~lst?4 
Sept. J4 ·····•· TEMPLE < <<> . '·w26-7·•···· Sept. 28 at Minnesota>> >W 14-13 Oct. >5• MA~YLAND .. • •W 24-20 · Oct.<12 at.Notre Danie (22-31)··· Oct.19 SYRACUSE ::•.· ::(:J20-2Ql?· Oct?26 $t EaSt Carotina •:( t (DNPl< N0\/(2 at BoSton Cgllege <•> (2&6) > Nov/9. RUTGERS {45-21 }<. 
Ncr/ 28> '<PENN STATE:.·: ,>::·lJ?-sg§F 
.;::..··.·:::::::;:::_:;:-:;:__ :_:;._:::_:::::.:;-_:-.·-:·:==:: .·,,··.·,·•..• ·•·•..•·.,•·.·••·.·.•::.•.·.·.·.·.·..••.••. ·•·.·•.·•.·.•••.·•.••··.. ·..• 
.. :>:·=::·<<::::>::::::>J(:~}?:::\::~::: 
.;_:-:_. ' .._.;:::::=.:-:' .:-.-:-.: .. ;:;<<>) ...... ·.·.·.·. >=\< .:. -:-:-: :-:-:·.·:· ·: 
.-·:.:.: :::·:·:->U:>.:<:·:...:: :-<~~i:~:::: .·.·. ...::: ... ·.·.. . :::::::::: . . . . .....::....... ·.·.· .. -. 
.:;::::;:-.:: . . . . ··.· .. 
.... . ·.·.·......: . •::.'/';;<}:\::.>.• :<.:; : )'(::} -BR 

Twin terrors collide 
McDonald brothers meet in final showdown 

By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
Quarterbacks all over the nation 
may be struck with double vision this 
season. Two of the most feared pass 
rushers in college this year have 
something in common-they're twin 
brothers. 

Devon McDonald of Notre Dame 
and Ricardo McDonald of Pitt have 
combined for 50 tackles and nine 
quarterback sacks in 10 total games 
this season and come this Saturday at 
Notre Dame Stadium, there will 
always be a McDonald on the field for 
the offense to fret over. 
Last season, Ricardo had a team­high 73 tackles and made honorable mention All-American, while Devon played in all 11 games for the Irish, making 38 tackles. 
But this year may be Devon's chance to shine. In both of the past two seasons, he had knee problems, but this year the knees are feeling fine and Devon has become a corner­stone of the Irish defense. 
At 6-4, 240 pounds he has the strength to shed blockers while retaining the quickness and speed to get to the ball. But outside linebacker coach Jay Hayes thinks that Devon's assets aren't limited to his physical talents. 
"Fundamentally he's a good football player, and he does have n lot of 
Ricardo McDonald 
strength and quickness that other people don't have," said Hayes. 
The team concept is deeply in­grained in Devon and as the only senior member of the defense, some of the leadership role inevitably falls on his shoulders. It is not a responsi­bility he takes lightly. 
'Tve been around the longest, so I know pretty much what to expect," said McDonald. "But by the same token, even though I'm a senior, there are guys out here, like Demetrius (DuBose), who've played as much as I did. In that sense, since I'm a senior, 
I'm a leader."  
Hayes agreed  that Devon  had  
moved  into  a  position  of  re­ 

sponsibility. 

"It's his third year of playing, so we look to him for leadership. We look 
for him to play well, and he's been doing that," said Hayes. "He's been in the system more, and teaches the younger guys." 
Devon and Ricardo were born in Kingston, Jamaica, moving to America at age 12, an experience Devon listed as his greatest in this year's media guide. Ricardo's original ambition was to be a cricket player, while Devon names Pele as his favorite childhood sports hero. 
Eventually a cousin convinced the pair to play football. And play it they did, although for rival high schools-Devon at Kennedy High School, Ricardo at Eastside. The pair even played against each other in high school, since they played both offense and defense on the opposing teams. 
After suffering through a 0-8-1 record as a junior, Devon and his team went 10-0-1 his senior year, winning the New Jersey state title. 
Playing at different high schools eased the separation going away to different schools, but the pair is still quite close, as Devon said in the media guide: 
"... we talk a couple of times a week during the year, and we've really stayed close. We each know what the other is going through, and it's been fun to have our teams play against each other every year. We don't make that big a deal out of it, but it's still special." 
And this week may be one of the more memorable games in the series. The Panthers come into the game ranked 12th in the nation, while the Irish hold the eighth spot. 
"No matter what their record, they always play us tough," Devon said. 
Hayes said that the Panthers would provide the Irish pass defense with another test. 
'"They're the same type of team as Stanford. They're going to throw quickly and not take sacks. It's going to be difficult to get a sack ofT them." 
Pitt quarterback Alex Van Pelt has thrown for over 1000 yards in five games, and has had success in the past against Notre Dame, going 37-51 with 384 yards and two touchdowns last season. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz has made improving the pass rush one of his projects over the past few weeks, and Devon is one of the main keys to pres­suring the passer. 
"Devon has gotten a lot of pressure on the quarterback," said Hayes. "Last week, we didn't sack the kid (Palumbis) in the Stanford game, but we hit him 11 times. Devon got a good number of those." 
The defense in general has improved over the past few weeks, but Devon's not satisfied yet. 
"We're toughening up, but we're not to the point where we should be yet," said McDonald. 
"As the season goes on, we'll play tougher and tougher opponents. It's hard to say now, whether you play this team and blow them out, if you're doing good, but next week you got a Tennessee or a Penn State. That's two tests. Even after we play Tennessee and say we played pretty 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Outside linebacker Devon McDonald (45) celebrates after making one of his 24 tackles this season. Three of his tackles have been for losses. 
see DEVON I page 4 

Irish Football '91 

'• 
Fnday, ~ober11, 1991 
Calif. ball. make things as easy as pos­9 Burris, JeW FS 6--:0 194 55 lytle, Dean Ol.B 6·3 221 

These frequent moves have "If you get a killer hit, it's sible." 10 Jarrefl. Adri.an• FL6-o 194 56 Gibson. Oliver OLS 6-3 228 provided the basis for a young about equal to scoring a touch­Though Clark has adapted 11Lozano, Rid< TS 5-10 189 57 Mannelly, B. OT 6-:4 279 man who adjusts easily to new down," said Clark. "I like play­quickly to the defense, he al-t2 Failla, Paut 185 58 Nau. Jeremy ltB 6-4 225 situations. ing offense and defense pretty 
sea CLARKI page 4 12 Guerrera, !~i~~~~~-~~Mtm!illjl:~:l.ill~~;~~~nnc•nn· Lance"C 6-2 260
"I think it helps me adjust much the same." 13 6 1212 pretty well to new positions and ................. 6-2 215 everything," said Clark. "Living rm:;m:r::::~:r:mw.mtr.lffl::~g~"•3 275



·~;1111i111
in Spain and then coming back 

,I~I~IJ :::::::::::rt:§fn;.m~,ne® s~z 279 
to the States, there's a big dif­

~~~]£2s~ i::~l~r~~.s-1w7 
;;:;;jj 275
ference." 

Last week against Stanford, 271 Clark again adjusted to a new situation. After spending over six months in the Irish offensive backfield, Clark returned to the secondary, where he spent most of his freshman season. 
Clark was the leading tackler for the Irish in the 1991 Orange Bowl, recording 11 tackles in the Colorado Buffaloes' 10-9 win. However, he was a sensa­tion at tailback in spring prac­tice, listed behind only senior Rodney Culver. 

With the arrival of the 1991 season, however, and the return • William"* SE 6-4 220 of fifth-year senior tailback 83 Smith, Tony .. SE ·6-?.l9l .. . Tony Brooks, Clark's time in the 84 Smith, lrv•"l£ 6-5 233 · .... Irish offensive backfield was 84 Baker, Jeff Ft.. 5-11 174 · limited to 18 carries through 85 Hughes, RObert TE 6-6 246 four games. 86 Brown, Derek TE 6·6 252 
But the Irish coaching staff 87 Dawson, lake SE 6-1 200 felt that Clark's athleticism was 
88 Bakich. Huntle>' llB 6-3 210 
sorely missed with his absence 

88 Warren, Clarke Fl5-10 169 from the starting lineup. 89 McGm, Karl• OLB 6~3 221 
"I don't think there's any 90 Hamilton, Brian DT 6-5 254 doubt that Willie Clark is just a 92 Taliaferro, John OLB 6-4 22S competitor," said Irish coach 
92 Bruenlng, WiUie llB 5..-1 0 209 Lou Holtz. "You have to have 
93 Kordas. Jim OL 6-5 240 
him out on the field." 

94 Fleurima, ReggieOT 6-4 250 Last week a spot opened up 95 Bryant. Juni¢r•• OT 6·4 263 for Clark on the Irish defense. 96 cteManigold, M."' DT 6-4 266 
Greg Davis replaced Anthony 97 Young, Bryant• DT 6-3 256 Peterson at drop linebacker last 
98 Profit, J.D. DT 6-0 251 
The Observer/Anarew MC<.;Ioskey
week, effectively adding a fifth 
99 Ridgfey, Troy... NT 6-4 265 

The multi-talented Willie Clark (32) plows ahead for some of his 115
member of the pass coverage 


The Observer/Ann-Marie Conradoyards. Clark is averaging 6.3 yards per carry, and has notched seven
unit to combat Stanford's potent 
tackles at safety.
aerial attack. Clark filled the 
void created at free safety when John Covington moved to Davis' strong safety spot. 
The coaching staff planned on Clark's stay in the secondary to be a short one, but the injury to Davis' knee may keep Clark at free safety until the senior returns. 
"It was a one-week scenario and we would look at it again after that week, but we didn't realize we would lose Greg Davis" said Holtz. "We felt that Willie Clark could step in there at free safety and play well. And Willie played very, very well, I might add." 
Despite his performance, however, Clark is destined to be a running back at Notre Dame. 
"I believe Willie Clark is a rme tailback and even last Saturday I wished we had the opportunity to use him some, because he does have tremendous speed," said Holtz. 
"Willie Clark will end up as a running back at Notre Dame, I just can't tell you when. I think a lot of it has to do with the health status of our football team." 
Clark was primarily a running back the two years he spent at Wheatland High School, gaining 3,500 yards and scoring 40 touchdowns in two seasons. Clark, however, still sees room for improvement in his running game. 
"I need to gain a little weight," he said. "Sometimes if there's nothing there, I'll just be 







SE Tony Smith Ray Griggs RCBWilliam Pollard Steve Israel Vernon Lewis 

•
OLBJ Jl
1 

Ricardo McDonald 
~~say Knapp 

Ken Radinick 
FS

~:ron Taylor Lex Perkins FB ~t'p Tim Ruddy RE Chris Hupko 
Sean Gilbert Jerome Bettis 
Mike Kelly Ryan Mihalko 

l.iL Jl 
Reggie Brooks ILB Charles Williams 


Jl 


Mark Shemanski 
Ll oeL l 
TB Rick Mirer NT 

ss
Tony Brooks Paul Failla 
TG Tom Barndt 

Doug Whaley Kevin McDougal Mirko Jurkovic 

Rodney Culver Jeff Esters D. SavariauGeorge Poorman Mark Zataveski 
Jl t.iL.. ILB Jl

TomTumulty Hayes Clark 
TT 

K Justin Hall Craig Hentrich Jordan Halter 

LE LCB

t.iL.. 

p Keith Hamilton Dave Coleman 
FLCraig Hentrich 

Richard Allen Tinker Harris Jim Sexton Lake Dawson .. 



Adrian Jarrell TE 

Jl 
Ll 
Clint Johnson Derek Brown OLB lrv Smith Curtis Bray
t. iL Oscar McBride Nelson Walker Jl 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 


Irish Football '91 
Friday, October 11, 1991 ., 


Panther defense stymies rush 
Hamilton, McDonald lead experienced front seven 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writer 
In 1990, the Pitt Panthers had big expectations. 
Their coach, Paul Hackett, was heading into his first sea­son, while Alex Van Pelt and "Swervin "' Curvin Richards led a backfield which was to wreak havoc on opposing defenses. 
However, the Panther season fell far short of expectations, as the team went 3-7-1, finishing under .500 for only the second time in the last 18 seasons. 
This fall, with the departure
54 Boykin, 

of Richards to the NFL's Dallas 55 Abinet, Shawn Cowboys, the 1991 season 56 Radinick, Ken LB looked bleak to Pitt fans. 
But this Pitt team has defied
58 Bray, Curtis LB 6-4 

the odds and comes into Notre
60 MHierI Scott OL 6-5 285 

Dame Stadium ranked twelfth 
61 Cardinali, Rick OL 6-7 

in the nation, having given up 62 Christy, Jeff 00 6-3 285 only 57 points in jumping out to 64 Hurst, Bill OL 8-7 290 a 5-0 record. 
"Pitt has given up an 11­
65 Kelly, Mike DL 6-3 265 

points-per-game average," said
68 Huck, Frank Ol. 6-3 250 

Irish coach Lou Holtz. "That's 
e 
lawson OL 6-4 

·· · almost unheard-of in today's 
• Dan Ol. 6-4 football." Lamont Ol. 6-4 The suffocating Panther de­
72 Fely, Mark OL 6-5 293 fense is led by defensive end Keith Hamilton, who will prove
75Dela@ 

himself a handful for the Irish 
nGorajMW819~ 
78 

By ANTHONY KING Assistant Sports Editor 
The University of Pittsburgh and Notre Dame will meet for 
llllllllllllllllll the 53rd time when the ball is
.. teed up this Saturday afternoon t::=:::J in Notre Dame Stadium. Thus 
·'!'·..................,.~far, the Irish have clearly dom­Wai~lr:tQ~gQ;:M~Qij:QL.Bft$t:~H ),.; ~~··~'~lf9S'm.fWi®¥·J3••~!&1~~~9"/ inated the series, posting a 35­<41 N~Qrn;riat'/OI'itl J~R W-1 200.<< < / i~~ N~m ffl~WI•i~JAAi•••••••iilt~§.fi )16-1 record. The Irish have not been as ·.··.·.·•·•·.............··.·•·•·•·•·•·•·.. dominant in the 1980s, how­ever. The Panthers recorded three consecutive victories over the 
::::<,:·-...:··<<••.: · :<I Irish in 1983, '86 and '87. The 
LL...iJ~illb~±ill~~QEELJQiiJililllllllfillast time the Panthers were vic­
torious in Notre Dame Stadium 
was in 1986, when Pitt kicker 
_t SE Chad Askew 
OLB\. Junior Green 

offensive line. The 6-7, 280­
pound junior has led Pitt in 
sacks his first two seasons and 
is a preseason All-American in 
1991. 

"I think that Hamilton is an 
outstanding defensive tackle," 
said Holtz. "When you go with 
(outside linebacker Curtis) Bray 
and Hamilton and (right end 
Sean) Gilbert in the defensive 
front five, you're going with 
three highly-recruited, excellent 
football players." 

Another member of the Pitt 
defenses who can wreak havoc 
on oncoming ballcarriers is 
outside linebacker Ricardo Mc­
Donald, the twin brother of 
Notre Dame's Devon McDonald. 
McDonald is a preseason All­Big East pick, and is a senior leader of the Pitt defensive corps. He and Hamilton lead the Panthers with six sacks apiece in 1991. 
The Pitt secondary is headed by Steve Israel, who is also an extraordinary kick returner. Israel has already run back two punts for touchdowns this sea­son, and boasts a kickoff return average of 30.8 yards, fourth­best in the nation. 
"Israel is as good a defensive 
back and as good a kickoff re­
turn man (as you will see)," said 
Holtz. "He gives you an awful 
lot of concern in that area." 
The Pitt run defense, however, 
is the strong suit of Hackett's 
team. The Panthers give up only 
143 yards per game on the 
ground. Notre Dame, however, 
has rushed for an average of 
293.6 yards. 
Senior tailback Tony Brooks has broken out for 265 yards over the last two Irish games, including a career-best 141 yards against Purdue. 
"I think Tony Brooks played very well (against Stanford)," said Holtz. "He just keeps get­ting better and better and bet­ter." 
Burly sophomore Jerome Bet­tis has come alive this season, rushing for 179 yards and three touchdowns against Stanford, while catching a touchdown pass. 
"Jerome Bettis is doing this too frequently for it to be a fluke," said Holtz. "He doesn't look very quick. He doesn't look very fast. But he is an outstand­ing fullback who is really play-
see PANTHERS/page 4 

Van Pelt kept Pitt close last year 
Jeff Van Horne kicked a 29-yard turnovers eventually allowed 
Devon McDonald 


Rod Smith 
Oliver Gibson 

Ll 
J lGermaine Holden 
J1 
LT 
·~~!cJones
Jeff Christy 

.. ~~ Dean Lytle 
t. ill. 
Reuben Brown 
.Ji~ 

field goal late in the game to preserve a 10-6 victory. 
Notre Dame has managed to come back in the series, run­ning off three straight victories in 1988, '89, and '90. Tony Rice led the Irish to a 30-20 victory in 1988, as Pitt quarterback Darnell Dickerson fumbled in the endzone and the Irish re­covered to preserve the victory. In '89, the Irish cruised to a 45­7 victory. 
Last year's meeting, however, turned out to be a tough contest for the Irish. Notre Dame, coming off a hard fought win over Miami, came out flat against the Panthers. Yet Pitt 
FCB Jeff Burris 

FB Glenn Deveaux 
Carl Hagins Lance Markel 
•
\-­
il t.~ 
TB Curtis Martin Jermaine Williams 
K Scott Kaplan Don Silvestri 
p 

FL
Kevin Leon 

Ll 
QB Alex Van Pelt Ken Ferguson 
(\1! LG 
Gary Gorajewski '~ Dan Anderson 
t.i&. 
' 
c 
Chris Sestili 
t...
~ Frank Huck 

~ Tony Oelazio 
.RG
Lawson Mollica 


t.i&. 
• 
Scott Miller ~ Bill Hurst 
.RT 
.Ji
t.il. 
Chris Bouyer 
Leon Theodorou 
Bill Davis 
--~cSea~ 
Dave Moore 


il t.il. 

SLB 


FS 
Demetrius DuBose Willie Clark 

Brian Ratigan 

Chet Hollister iustin Goheen 
J1 

ss 

J. CovingtonMLB LeShane Saddler Pete Bereich 
J 
Jim Flanigan ieremy Nau J1 LE 
Ekyant Young
Peter Rausch Bernard Mannelly 
~ 

BCB 
Tom Carter OLB 
Greg Lane Anthony Peterson 
K. McGill Nick Smith 
J1 

Jl The Observer/Brendan Hegan 
the Irish to snag their third straight win over the Panthers 
..
in as many years. 
The Irish struck first, taking advantage of a Devon McDonald fumble recovery. Tony Brooks crashed in from two yards out to give the Irish a 7-0 lead. 
Brooks struck again in the second quarter, this time dash­ing 28 yards for the score after a Todd Lyght interception. 
The Panthers came back be­hind the arm of quarterback Alex Van Pelt. First Van Pelt hit his favorite target, tight end Eric Seaman, for 18 yards on the drive. He then found Dave Moore for a nine-yard touch­down pass to cut the score to 14-7. 
The Irish received the kickoff in the second half. Rick Mirer hit Raghib Ismail for a 49-yard gain. But the drive stalled, and Notre Dame settled for a 39­yard field goal by Craig Hentrich. 
The fourth quarter could be described as "the launch," as Raghib Ismail proved again why 
· he was the most dangerous man in college football. On a first down at the Irish 24-yard line, Ismail received a pass from Rick Mirer and followed blocks by Tim Ryan and Rod Culver on his way to the endzone. The 76­yard run was the longest run from scrimmage of Ismail's career and gave the Irish a 24-7 lead. 
Pitt, however, struck back on the next possession. Van Pelt connected with Olanda Truitt for 27 yards before running back Glenn Deveaux charged over from one yard out to get Pitt within 11 points. The Panthers then went for two points and converted, cutting the Irish lead to nine . 
The Panthers then attempted an onside kick, but running back Tony Brooks covered the ball for the Irish. From the Pitt 47, the Irish marched down the field to put the game out of reach. Ismail ran for 18-yards, and Mirer ran over from one yard out to give the Irish a 31­15 lead. The Panthers would score once more, making the fmal score 31-22. 
Irish Football '91 




Devon 
continued from page 1 
good, we still have to play a Penn State." 
Coach Hayes shook his head in approval when asked if the National Football League was something likely to be in Devon's future. 
"I think he has the potential to do it," said Hayes. 
Even with the NFL beckoning, Devon has his mind firmly fo­cused on the here and now. 
"I just have to fmish the sea­son, play games, show what I can do, do what I came here to do-get an education and play ball. 
"Right now it's hard to even think about the NFL. lf it comes, 

Clark 
continued from page 3 
ready misses handling the ball. Holtz has said in the past that Clark, with his speed and moves, would be an ideal kick returner. 


Panthers 
continued from page 3 
ing so well for us." 
In short, the Irish running game has been unstoppable, compiling 1,06~ yards on the ground after a disappointing 78-yard performance in a 24-14 loss at Ann Arbor. 
The offensive line has been a big part of the recent success of the Irish ground attack, with seniors Mirko Jurkovic and Justin Hall leading the troops in the trenches. 
"Mirko Jurkovic and Justin Hall both played excellent foot­ball games for us," said Holtz. "Our offensive line, I don't think, is as talented as other offensive lines we've had." 
However, the Irish have won the battles recently, and will have to win most of them Sat­urday against a Pitt team whose defensive strength is stopping the run. 
The strength of the Panthers' it comes. It's one of those things. I look at the draft and a Seminoles atop lot of guys who were supposed to go high in the draft went real NCSW poll forlow, so you can't really throw your eggs in that basket." 

sixth week

McDonald said that he'd eventually like to own his own 
By ROLANDO De AGUIAR

business, but for now he'll con­
Sports Writer

centrate on getting his degree. "You can only dream what The top five spots of theyou might be doing, but you National Collegiate Sports­don't really know. You can only writers' Poll remained stablework and hopefully everything 
this week as favorites

will work out for the best." 2 
prevailed in the weekend's big Although Devon meant the match ups. 

quote to apply to life in general, Number one Florida Stateit might be a wise word of ad­(5-0-0) manhandled Syracusevice to the Irish football team. 
46-14 despite Qadry Ismail'sAnd in the meantime, Devon 

two touchdowns. The

and the rest of the Notre Dame 
Orangemen (3-1-0) fell six

defense will be doing their best 3
spots, from twelve to

to see that Van Pelt and the eighteen, in this week's poll. 
Panthers get a healthy dose of Notre Dame (4-1-0) moveddouble vision. 
up a place to number seven as 

games of the season before losing to Notre Dame. Hackett spent nine years as a college assistant coach and eight years as an NFL assistant before taking the top spot at Pitt. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

Friday, October 11, 1991 
1016  9129  Rec.  Pts.  Next li!ame  
1.  (1)  Florida State [25]  5·0  649  10112 vs. Virginia Tech  
2.  (2)  Miami  4·0  613  1 0/12 vs. Penn State  
3.  (3)  Washington [1)  4·0  605  1 0/12 YS. Toledo  
4.  (4)  Tennessee  4·0  561  10112 at Florida  
5.  (5)  Oklahoma  4-0  536  10112 vs. TaKas  
6.  (7)  Michigan  3·1  525  10/12 at Michigan State  
7.  (8)  Notre Dame  4·1  489  1 0/12 vs. Pittsburgh  
8.  (11)  Baylor  5·0  473  10/12 vs. Rice  
9.  (10)  Penn State  5·1  439  10112 at Miami  
10.  (13)  Florida  3·1  382  1 0/12 vs. Tennessee  
11.  (14)  Ohio State  4-0  381  10/12 at Illinois  
12.  (6)  Clemson  3·1  304  10/12 vs. Virg1nia  
13.  (18)  California  4·0  302  10/12 vs. Oregon  
14.  (17)  Pittsburgh  5·0  300  1 0/12 at Notre Dame  
15.  (9)  Iowa  3·1  292  1 0/12 at Wisconsin  
16.  (16)  Nebraska  3·1  289  10/12 at Oklahoma State  




"Especially now that I don't get the football, I'd like to (return kicks)," Clark said. "It wasn't as important to me when I was at running back, but now I want to touch the rock at least a few times." 
At any rate, whatever new si­tuation Willie Clark is put in, no one can wait until he touches the rock. 
offense is through the air, how­ever. Junior quarterback Van Pelt threw 51 passes against an inexperienced Irish secondary last year, completing 37 for 384 yards and two touchdowns. 
"Van Pelt is starting against Clemson fell to number 12 from the sixth spot. Georgia's 27-12 defeat of the Tigers (3­1-0) allowed the Bulldogs ( 4­1-0) to enter the poll at number 22. 
The 14th-ranked Pittsburgh Panthers (5-0-0) will face the Irish next week at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The biggest mover in this week's poll was California (4­0-0), who jumped five spots to number 13 after defeating UCLA 27-24 in a Pac-10 battle. 
PANTHERS TO WATCH 


, 
Alex Van Pelt 
6-2 200 lb, junior 
. I 
us for the third year," said Holtz. "He runs a lot of play­action passing, and they're most effective when they can run the football." 
Despite its pass orientation, Pitt's single-back attack strikes a balance between running and passing. , 
"They run the football more than they have in the past," said Holtz. "They've run it very, very successfully. The thing that scares you the most is they have 
a  pretty  good  balance  of  
running and passin g."  
The  Panthers  rely  on  a  

freshman to carry the hulk of the rushing responsibility. Cur­tis Martin's average of 7 4 yards per game is making Pitt fans forget about Richards, while sophomore Jermaine Williams has also contributed with 278 yards through the five games. 



Dave McMahon Associate Sports Editor 37-35-3 
Seminoles Nittany Lions Gators Sooners Wolverines Bears Buckeyes Tigers Golden Bears Hawkeyes Corn huskers Orangemltn Crimson Tide Bulldogs Irish 
Paul Hackett 
After struggling to a 3-7-1 record last season, the second­year coach has led the Panthers to a 5-0 tally this season, their best start since 1982, when the Panthers won their first seven 
The 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and some well­known fi.g.ure in tQe Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community predict the outcomes of the week's m$r college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. Home teams are in CAPS. 
FSU 27.5 over VIrginia Tech MIAMI 9.5 over Penn State FLORIDA 4 over Tennessee Oklahoma 5.5 over TEXAS Michigan 24 over MICH. ST. BAYLOR 20 over Rice ILLINOIS 3 over Ohio State CLEMSON 10 over VIrginia CAL. 1 0 over Oregon Iowa 19 over WISCONSIN Nebraska 28 over OK. ST. SYRCUSE 13 over E carina ALABAMA 31 over Tulane MISSISSIPPI2 over Georgia NOTRE DAME 14 over Pitt 

AI Lesar South Bend Tribune 43-29-3 
Seminoles Hurricanes Volunteers Sooners Wolverines Bears Buckeyes Tigers Golden Bears Hawkeyes Cornhuskers Orange men Crimson Tide Bulldogs Irish 


Patricia O'Hara VP Student Affairs 42-30-3 Last week's guest: 8-6-1 
Seminoles Hurricanes Volunteers Sooners Wolverines Bears Buckeyes Tigers Golden Bears Haw keyes Corn huskers Orangemen Crimson Tide Bulldogs Irish 

Dave Dleteman Sports Editor 41-31-3 
Hokies Nittany Lions Gators Longhorns Spartans Bears Fighting lllini Tigers Golden Bears Badgers Cowboys c.angemen Green Wave Rebels Irish 

Rich Kurz Associate Sports Editor 40-32-3 
Seminoles 
Nittany Lions 
Gators 
Sooners 
Wolverines 
Bears 
Buckeyes 
Tigers 
Golden Bears 
Badgers 
Cornhuskers 
Orangemen 
Crimson Tide 
Bulldogs 
Irish 

quarterback completed 37 of 51 passes for 384 yards and two touchdowns last year against the Irish. Ranks alongside Dan Marino as the only Pitt quarterbacks to throw for more than 2000 yards in two consecutive seasons. He has 1056 yards in five games this season. Holtz says this is Van Pelt's team. 
Steven Israel 

As a kick returner, the 5-11 senior is averaging 30.8 yards a return (5th in the nation). As a defensive back, the Jim Thorpe Award candidate has four interceptions, tied for fourth nationally. Knee and shoulder injuries limited Israel's action to four games last season. 

Anthony King Assistant Sports Editor 39-33-3 
Hokies 
Nittany Lions 
Volunteers 
Sooners 
Wolverines 
Bears 
Buckeyes 
Tigers 
Golden Bears 
Hawkeyes 
Corn huskers 
Orangemen 
Green Wave 
Bulldogs 
Irish 

Rene Ferran Associate Sports Editor 36-36-3 
Hokies 
Hurricanes 
Gators 
Sooners 
Wolverines 
Bears 
Buckeyes 
Tigers 

Golden Bears 
Hawkeyes 

Corn huskers 
Pirates 

Green Wave 
Rebels 
Irish 

f . 
.. ,· t.j

f ,...... 
I I ' '
;' --..

'--. I ' \
I .-' I •­

--~_AI.~ 

Photos courtesy University Archives Top: The student body of the University of Notre Dame du Lac as it was in the 1860s. The young boys are elementary students, who were a presence at Notre Dame until the 1920s. 
A~ove: Universi~y ~acuity from the 1860s pose on the steps of the second college burldrng. That burldrng burned down in 1879 and was replaced by the current Administration Building. 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 

I 
n the beginning, there was no Dome. There was no 'Brare. There wasn't 
even any football. Sounds pretty boring, huh? 
But it wasn't. In Notre Dame's early years. young men (sorry. no women) received a chance to learn-something rare in the frontier area of Northern Indiana. 
When Father Stephen Badin arrived in 1830, South Bend was a frontier outpost on the banks of the St. Joseph River. 
Father Edward Sorin and his companions arrived near what is now the Architecture Building on November 26, 1842. with the intent of building a college there. 
Sorin's dream became Notre 
Dame. 
And while students now enjoy an abundant life at one of the most prestigious universities in the nation, those early students dealt with hard winters, strict discipline and the uncertainty of how long the school would survive. 
Classes were held in the first "college building," which is now the Administration Building (although it has been rebuilt twice since then). 
This first building was multi­purpose, serving as a dormitory, a classroom building and cafeteria. This situation was not without its shortcomings. 
One historian wrote, ..The odor of baking bread must many times have rendered impossible any effort to concentrate on studies." 
That probably didn't matter 
see HISTORY/paQe 3 

1SO YEARS of Notre Dame 
Page 2 Friday, October 11, 1991 

Sesquicentennial Vignettes 
By Phil Loranger 


And you thought you have it bad ... 
S 
o you think some of the rules and regulations outlined in Du Lac-the official Manual of Student Conduct-are a bit stifling, weird and out of touch with reality? Well, my friends, take some solace in knowing that it has always been that way. 
When I was a student back in the years between 1958 and 1962, we Domers had to endure some of the strangest mandates issued since the time of Justinian. 
It was "lights out" at 10 p.m. during the weekdays and at midnight on Fridays and Sat­urdays. 
One had to have a pass to go to town. By the way, nine-tenths of South Bend was considered off-limits in those days and a student feared to enter those forbidden zones because various priests and brothers cruised the areas in dark cars on the look for anybody who even resembled a Notre Dame man-no kidding. 
You even needed a pass to go to the library to study late at night. And women were verboten, even your mother, after about the time the sun came down on campus. 
Should you feel that the rules that now govern your life at Notre Dame are somewhat prehistoric in nature, as I certainly did in my time, consider what the students of the 1860s had to endure. 
It was commonplace in that era to see a group of young collegians frolicking and splashing in the then -clear and cool waters of St. Joseph's Lake. But they were not doing it of their own volition. 
They were merely conforming to one of the University's regulations that read: "Students are required to bathe in common, twice a week in St. Joseph's Lake." This was generally the rule when the weather was favorable, but it often was standard operating procedure even when a layer of ice had formed on the lake. 
But the winter held fewer terrors for the students, because during those cold months, it was only compulsory that they wash their feet every Saturday at 4 p.m. 
Those were the bathing rules during the years roughly between 1860 and 1864. In the year of 1865, when bath tubs with hot and cold running water finally became available on campus, ears and feet were always required to be clean, according to a rule that included that a "bath must be taken once a week." 
The student who took that "bath" on Wednesday of the week was ready to spend a pleasant afternoon of recreation on "rec" day. 
According to the rules of the day, a student could have money in his pocket on that day, for "no student shal-l possess any money, except any that he receives weekly from the Treasurer on Wednesday at ten o'clock in the morning." 
Further down the list of rules, it was outlined that every student was required to write a letter to his parents or guardians at least once a month. He could be assured that he was showing that he was "learning something" as far as grammar was concerned because all letters were submitted to the Secretary of the Faculty before they were mailed. 
Also, all letters mailed home or received by the students were censored by the University's president or vice president. 
In the dining hall, two honor tables were set aside on each side of the table of the University president for those students who had high ranking in both scholarship and disciplinary observances. 
At both the noon and evening meals, appointed "readers" took their turn in reciting verses from the classics during meals. 
After the meal was finished, and the reading had come to an end, every student in the dining hall was responsible for answering any question asked from the matter that had been read during the meal. 
One can only imagine some guy or gal trying to make themselves heard today above the clanking trays, or crashing plates that are part and parcel of our North and South dining halls . 
Phil Loranger is a free lance writer and a 1962 graduate ofNotre Dame. He is the author of several books, including a history of South Bendfrom 1860 to the present. 


Ifyou're in trouble with Student Affairs, you've got history on your side 
By JOHN O'BRIEN 
Accent Editor 
A 
lot of the early students at Notre Dame were, well, a little rough around the 
edges. 

Most of them were chil­dren of uneducated or illiterate parents who were only sending their sons to school in hopes of that they'd be able to make a lot of money (sound familiar?) Because neither students nor parents had much at stake, discipline was often a problem. 
Instructors tried to enforce strict rules upon unruly students, but they were urged to give light punishments. 
That order came from none other than Fr. Edward Sorin himself, who knew that if he started expelling students, he'd have no tuition to keep his shaky college afloat. 
Early University records, particularly journals kept by the Council of Professors, showed that the first students were just as crazy, if not more so, than they are today. 
The following stories are all true, as wild as they may seem. 
One memorable hellraiser was Willie Ord. During the early years, Willie terrorized teachers and other students alike. 
By one account, Willie tried to punch four instructors, who re­sponded by asking Sorin to expel him. Sorin refused. Why? Willie's parents hadn't paid his tuition yet. 
A few weeks later, Willie and a few friends went into South Bend, stopped at Chafin's (sounds suspi­ciously like "Commons") and had a few beers. Although they were not drunk, the official record has them as feeling "a little happy." 
On the way home, Willie began screaming, then stripped naked and jumped into the St. Joseph River. Sorin refused to expel him-his tuition was still not paid. 
Finally, Willie hit Mr. St. Mar, the drawing teacher. Mr. St. Mar, obviously not as good-humored as Sorin, threatened to quit if Willie wasn't expelled. 
Because qualified teachers were even harder to come by in the 1840s and '50s than paying students, Sorin agreed and dumped Willie. Besides, Willie's parents had recently settled their account. 
Early records with stories of students who would sneak into South Bend to get alcohol and then get into trouble. Like many students today, these early domers would use the Infirmary to their advantage. 
Students would check into the Infirmary, pretending to be sick. After everyone went to bed, the students would sneak out. Problems arose when they were too tired-or too drunk-to make it back before the nurses woke up. 
Two unlucky fellows didn't make it, according to one report: 
"The student, arrested for in­toxication and lodged in the South Bend Jail, was sent home," the report says. 
The other "returnea beastly drunk, first wanting to fight, then to embrace. the Prefect of Discipline. "He was expelled. 
Another case documented in 
Edhor's Note: 
This special section is the first in aseries that will examine student life at Notre Dame throughout its 150-year history Special thanks are given to Charles Lamb, Peter Lysy and Sharon Sumpter of University Archives. Without them, this project would not have been possible. 
early University writings was that of a young man who had been thrown out of so many schools that his father sent him to Notre Dame as a last resort. 
In his first week of school in 1865, the young man objected to the Administration's decision not to let students attend a circus that had come to town. So he and his friends went anyway. 
Whoo they returned, they were forced to memorize several pages of poetry. Our boy, though, had a good memory and memorized them too soon for his instructor's tastes. The instructor then ordered the boy to memorize more pages. 
Here's where the plot thickens. In the words of the boy: 
I would not! And to make sure that the book would not be opened again, I got a large nail. drove it through the volume and clinched it on the other side. 
My instructor went to Father Dillon about the matter. but that good Father upheld me, saying that I had performed the penance exacted of me, and that no more should be required. 
Thus, the boy survived. In fact, in 1911, the University made him a Doctor of Laws. It looks like he had the last laugh. 
The stories prove one thing: There have always been, and probably always will be, hell­raisers. If you're one of them, there's only one thing to do next time you're called into Student Affairs: bring a hammer and a nail. 
If you're lucky, you could come away with a law degree. 
The design, layout and editing of this section was handled by John O'Brien. Jahnelle Harrigan copy edited, and Jake Frost and Susan Sullivan handled illustrations. All photos are courtesy of University of Notre Dame Archives. 
1SO YEARS of Notre Dame
Friday, October 11, 1991 Page 3 
When war raged... 
As the University matured, so did the United States. And Notre Dame was there. 
F 
rom 1861 to 1865, the Civil carrying a green flag, the Irish Brigade War raged. Few would have was known for bravery and valor. thought that the University of Southerners were reported to have Notre Dame du Lac, a small, said, "Here comes that damn green flag Catholic college in northern again," when the Irish Brigade would Indiana, would have anything to do arrive, but these· Southerners weren't 
with the war. from the University of Miami. But it did. Back on campus, it was business as One need only look at the statue of usual. The enrollment was at an all­
Father William Corby that stands today time high. In 1860, there were 213 in front of Corby Hall to see the impact student boarders, in a building that Notre Dame had on the war. could hold 200. 
The statue shows Corby raising his "We have so many students we don't right hand to grant general absolution know where to put them. Most likely, to Union troops before they marched we will have to put a notice in the into battle at Gettysburg on July 2, papers that we are full up," Fr. Edward 1863. That statue is a replica of one Sorin wrote. that stands on the Gettysburg National Battlefield in Pennsylvania. Before the war in 1859, a student 
Corby was one of seven Holy Cross named William Lynch formed the priests who served as chaplains for Continental Cadets, a group of students Union troops, some of whom were who trained to be soldiers, much like Notre Dame students. In addition, 89 modern-day ROTC cadets. Sisters of the Holy Cross from Notre Lynch went on to become Brigadier Dame and Saint Mary's ministered to General in the U.S. Army. the sick in military and naval hospitals Notre Dame's biggest place in Civil during the war. War history probably, though, comes 
Corby was chaplain of the "Irish from famed Union General William Brigade"-a group of Irish Catholics Sherman. from New York who fought for the While the Notre Dame of 1992 is Union. Inspired by Corby's blessing and known for having children of celebrities 
(Photos courtesy of Universiy Archives) Top: This painting by Paul Wood depicts Fr. William Corby granting absolution to the Irish Brigade at Gettysburg. Above: Along with 89 Sisters of the Holy Cross, these 11 men served in the Civil War. Seven of the men were Holy Cross priests serving as chaplains. 
in its student body (celebrities like the 1865 Notre Dame commencement. Regis Philbin and Dick Vitale), two of The student Who introduced Sherman Sherman's sons, Willy and Tommy, had spoke fondly of his son Willy, who had attended Notre Dame in its first 23 recently died. years. Sherman was in tears and said that, 
In addition, Mother Angela Gillespie, at that moment, he would rather go the first president of Saint Mary's into battle than make a speech. But he Academy (now College), was a relative did, and he told the students that the of the general. boys of Notre Dame would always be 
General Sherman was a speaker at dear to him. 

History 
continued from page 1 
though, because classes in the early years were makeshift, with few instructors and an un­structured curriculum. 
By 1844, a "Council of Pro­fessors" had formed to run the college. The Council established a curriculum, was responsible for deciding the direction of the college and, of course, handled discipline. 
When classes officially began in September, 1843, there were only five students. These stu­dents, like most of their early counterparts, were Protestant. 
This made for some awkward moments, considering the Holy Cross priests were Catholic, and (not to mention) French. With the exception of Sorin, none of the other instructors could speak English. 
Nonetheless, students kept arriving. Seven late arrivals 
joined the first five, and by June, 1844, there were 18 stu­dents. 
Theses students took classes in Latin, Greek, Oratory, Grammar and Botany, among other courses. Their level of learning, though, was far from college-level. 
In fact, out of the 18 students, only one, Moses Letourneau of Detroit, actually studied on a college level. The rest of the students took elementary courses. 
Breaking the language barrier could have been a disaster for Letourneau. Only three in­structors were qualified to teach him, and of these three, only Sorin spoke English. 
Besides being very French, the school was very strict. Rules governed every area of student life throughout the early years. 
Students had to remain on campus at all times, and even then, they were under close su­pervision of instructors. 
As years went by, this rule 

was relaxed and students often went for long walks with in­structors and prefects. For many years, this was students' only form of exercise. 
These walks weren't always recreational. Because Notre Dame and South Bend were al­most on the edge of the frontier, there was always the dangers of the wild. One account said that students and priests who went for walks had to bring sticks with to fend off snakes. 
In addition to these walks, students amused themselves by hunting rabbit and pheasant in the neighboring forest. 
In later years, students would be allowed to go into South Bend only to buy a necessity, and only then if they were ac­companied by a prefect. 
Students still managed to sneak into town, forcing Sorin to advertise in local newspapers asking people to report the names of any students seen alone in South Bend. 
The on-campus rules were 

just as strict. Good posture was mandated, and, according to one report, "it was strictly for­bidden for students to blow their nose with their hands." 
However, even if a student were to blow his nose in his hand, he probably would re­ceive a light punishment. Be­cause the instructors were Catholic and the majority of area residents were Protestant, Sorin tried not to make Catholics seem too severe. 
On one occasion, a teacher was reprimanded for whipping a student because Sorin was afraid of losing the student's much-needed tuition . 
Hygiene was not a big a con­cern. Students generally bathed only once a week. Older students who needed to shave could only do so on Wednesdays and Saturdays after dinner. 
It is easy to see why cleanli­ness was a problem. According to one report, "The necessity of separating Mr. Kelly Junior from the other Boarders (sic) for the sake of cleanliness was taken into consideration by the Council, who decided that he and his brother should sleep in the old kitchen." 
In class, students kept busy by chewing tobacco and spitting it on the floor. Instructors tried to curb this practice by making students pay the cleaning staff. 
So, it looks like they were pretty gross. Students had a strict schedule that limited their activities. 
They woke up at 5:30 in the morning (5 a.m. in the winter) and classes and recreational periods until 6 p.m. 
Every day, students would go to mass and study before breakfast-at 7:30a.m.. 
The first 23 years were not easy ones. Notre Dame had to struggle just to survive-not an easy task on the frontier. 
All the while, students kept flocking to Notre Dame. By • 1865, the Civil War was over, Notre Dame was thriving, and the early years were over. 
1SO YEARS of Notre Dame 
Page 4 Friday, October 11, 1991 
l_ 
. s editor of this supplement, I spent many a long hour toil­ing through old books and
A 
manuscripts, translating an­

I 
cient tomes and choking from 

I 
r~ the dust of rotten volumes. r To tell the story of the University of I Notre Dame du Lac in the years before 
. 1865 was a monumental task,I :: consisting of many long hours of .. research in the \Hesburgh Library with 
I 
.· , only a candle to illuminate my note

' 
f -·•·••• pad.
' 
Well, actually. that's not really the' · ··: truth. Thanks to all of the friendly
' 
folks at University Archives, my work , ' ~ was virtually painless and a lot of fun. 
But my version sounds better. One thing, though, that the Archives 
··· people didn't give me was a top secret document I found on my desk from someone named "Deep Threat." That document showed the real history of Notre Dame, with all of its rotten secrets. So, in an Observer Exclusive!, I bring you the true history of Notre Dame (but don't expect any University officials to acknowledge it as true-they're part of a conspiracy.) 
The Untold Saga of Notre Dame 
Sept. 7, 1842 -Father Edward Sorin arrives on the banks of Saint . Mary's Lake and utters those famous 



words: "Hey. Brothers, it's Miller Time." One report calls Sorin a frequent skinny-dipper, usually taking a Holy Cross Sister or two with him. 
Dec. 10, 1842 -Sorin vows to build an "Aluminum Pyramid" atop his dream college. Potawatomi Indians in the area begin to call him "Crazy White Dude with Goofy Beard." 
Jan. 27, 1843 -Like many settlers before him, Sorin swindles the Indians out of land that is rightly theirs by giving them two student tickets to the NO-USC game. The Indians are unaware that a student I.D. is required to use those tickets. and have them taken at the gate by the ushers. 
March 29, 1844 -The founder of what would become University Foodservices grills up the first "meatless cheeseburger" during Lent. The ingredients, which are rumored to include peat moss and sheep dung, are still part of the recipe. 
Feb. 18, 1845-While listening to a phonogragh record of the "1812 Overture, Sorin and a small group of friends begin making little L's with their hands. Nobody's really sure why, so they write it off as demonic posession and never do it again. 
Nov. 17, 1846 -University officials decide to drop the nickname "The Fighting FrenchMen." This action fol­lows a baseball game in which the FrenchMen choose to surrender to Harvard rather than play. 
April 20, 1851 -Sorin implements a "parietals" policy after he catches a young student holding hands with a South Bend woman. "Parietals" is an Indian word for "castration." 
Jan. 3, 1852 --The University doctor decides to provide primitive condoms to students. The practice is stopped when, to everyone's horror, they go stale. 
Dec. 17, 1853-As University cooks go on strike, officials hire short women from a circus that has come to town to serve food. Circus Lunch is born. 
Feb. 12, 1854 -A student walking through what is now the Northeast Neighborhood is beaten and robbed. The South Bend Police promptly arrest Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose. 
Oct. 30, 1855 -A student buys a textbook from the Hammes Notre Dame Trading Post for three chickens and a silver dollar. 
Nov. 2, 1855 -The same student returns the book to Hammes Notre Dame Trading Post and receives a handful of worthless beads in return. 
Feb. 23, 1956 -Due to a stagecoach mix-up, several former students return to campus with the luggage of Scottish tourists. When the} meet Sorin in their plaid outfits, he shrieks, "Oh my Lord, they're Alums!" 
May 19, 1857-A mysterious man in a blue cape and blue trousers confronts Sister Winifrida on the bank of Saint Mary's Lake and asks her to punch him in the stomach. Sorin dubs the man "The Blue Walker," and a legend is born. 
Nov. 8, 1858 -Sorin tells friends of his dream to build "a great athletic complex in the shape of a woman's brassiere." He is laughed out of the log chapel. 
March 11, 1859-Several University buildings are destroyed in a fire of suspicious origin. The South Bend Police promptly arrest Hick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose. 
May 5, 1860 -The first ND student tries out the DART (Direct Access· Registration by Teepee) system. only to· discover that all of his classes are. filled. Sorin promises to bring in more • professors. · 
Oct. 19, 1860 -Sorin tells a group of friends of his dream to build a tall building featuring a large mural of Jesus on the side. "We can name it the ·• .· 'Sorin Library," he says. The Brothers •. refuse to pass him the peace pipe ever.·. again. 
April 19, 1861 -Word reaches NO. that the Civil War has broken out. The •· South Bend Police promptly arrest· Hick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose. 
May 20, 1863 -Two students are caught on University grounds carrying alcoholic cider. They are let go when it • is determined they were using "suitable packaging." 
Nov. 8, 1864 -Sorin asks a Holy Cross nun to clean up the log chapel. "Clean up your damn chapel yourself," she replies, and the Gender Studies program is born. 
· June 17, 1865-General William Sherman speaks at the University commenceme~t exercises, but only after Margaret O'Brien Steinfels turns down the offer. 












