• 

~.~£~~

-Q&· 
IU2·1992 SISQUICINHNNIAL 
eObserver 
Saint Ma~'s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 32 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1991 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Garr Scwartz 

Into the corner pocket! 
Paul Gerni played some fancy pool at Theodore's last night. This tricky jump shot is just one of the many trick shots this master at pool has up his sleeve. 
Results of FAC election announced 
By ANDY RUNKLE News Writer 
A ge1wral Plnclion determined two represnntatives for the Freshman Advisory Committee (FAC) on Monday. Runoff elec­tions will hn held Wednesday to select the remaining 11 posi­tions, according to Travis Reindl, elections coordinator. 
In nine residence halls, only one candidate applied for elec­tion. The election was called ofT in this case and this candi­date was dedared the winner. 
Marie Hauck of Farley Hall and Maria Capua of Walsh Hall, each receiving more than 50 percent of the· vote, were elected in the general election yesterday to represent their halls on the FAC, according to Reindl. 
Eleven other residence halls 
see FROSH I page 4 


ANC asks businesses to prepare to invest 
By MONICA YANT Africa is instability. "There is 
News Editor conflict still going on, there is 
an uncertainty about the fu­
ture-," Mbeki said. 

The corporate world "can and What the new government of should" assist in the transition South Africa must do to quell of South Africa to a post-these fears is produce eeonomie Apartheid government, accord-policies that positively affect ing to Thabo Mbeki of the social and politieal policy, thus African National Congress attracting potential investors, (ANC). , he said. 
American businesses need to The timetable for finalizing start investment preparations this democratic government is now, while the transition is still difficult to determine, Mbeki underway, said the ANC's direc-admitted. The ANC hopes the tor of international affairs in a constitution-making process press conference yesterday. will begin this year and con-
J.E. Overmeyer, president and elude within one year. CEO of Tokheim Corporation; "We would like it to move Roderick Thrner, executive vice forward as quickly as possible," president of Colgate-Palmolive; Mbeki said. and Father Oliver Williams, as-In the meantime, American sociate provost of the businesses must begin to lay University, joined Mbeki in the the foundations for investment press conference at the Center in a post-Apartheid South for Continuing Education. Africa. The success of invest-
All four are participants in a ment is going to depend on three-day conference, "The thorough preparatory work, ANC and New Investment in Mbeki said. South Africa," sponsored by the "Change is coming to South University. During the confer-Africa," Mbeki promised. ence members of the ANC will "South Africa will be a demo­meet with American business cratic society sooner than later. executives in an attempt to de-Why not get involved now?" velop a first-ever policy for in-The economic and business vestment in a post-Apartheid climate in South Africa is im­South Africa. proving steadily, said Turner 
The basic problem con-and Overmeyer. As rcpresenta­fronting investment in South see ANCI page 4 

ND official warns of scholarship-search service fraud 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
A growing number of schol­arship search organizations are appnaring across the nation, hut students would be better ofT looking for aid from other sourcns, according to Joseph Husso. director of financial aid at Notn• Dame. 
Most of these services, ac­cording to Husso, are run by individuals who have purchased software from a few large or­ganizations that market the product to potential vendors by direct mail, newspaper and magazine advertisements and hand-outs in grocery store dis­play racks, he said. 
Virtually anyone can become a vendor of these information services, Russo said. One adver­tisement directed toward those interested in the venture said that no experience is necessary. 
Vendors, who spend hun­dreds of dollars on the soft­ware, solicit the service to stu­dents around the nation through brochures on college campuses or advertisements in magazines, he said. 
Although it is possible that students "might find a needle in the haystack," many of the programs are scams, according to Russo. "You'd be better off putting a buck in the lottery" than spend time and money on these computer searches, he said. 
One example of such an or­ganization, the National Scholarship Assistance Program (NSAP) based in Florence, KY. has recently been posting 
ND Debate team off to successful start 
By JENNIFER CLEARY News Writer 
The Notre Dame Debate Team is ofT to a successful start under the direction of new roach Tim Mahoney and the assistance of former roach Nancy Wallace. 
The team has been debating the topic, "Hesolved: That U.S. eollegBs and universities have inappropriately altered educa­tional practices to address is­sues of race and gender." 
According to novice Mike Sayer tlw team has responded Willi to the new coach. "Although he is only supposed to work part-time, he devotes all of his time to us," said Sayer. 
''I'm rnally proud of the team and espedally the performance of the novices," said Mahoney. 
The varsity team of juniors Val Henegar and Tim Calmeyn represented ND at a tourna­ment Sept. 21-22 at the University of Northern Iowa. They earned third place after falling to the University of Missouri, Kansas City team in the semifinals of the junior di­vision. Henegar was awarded fifth best speaker of the week­end. 
The following weekend the novice teams of Faye Kolly and Melinda Balli, Mike Sayer and Mike MacDonald competed at Wheaton College in Illinois. Sayer and MacDonald were awarded a second place trophy for· their efforts. MacDonald said, "This has been a learning year-the novice teams are growing by leaps and bounds." 
While the novices were at Wheaton, the varsity team of Renegar and Mark Escheveste debated at the University of South Carolina. The two ad­vanced to the quarterfinals be­fore falling to an undefeated team from northwest Louisiana. Renegar was named top speaker of the tournament. According to Renegar, "It was a shock...It was the first time any Notre Dame varsity debater got the award." 
This past weekend the debate team travelled to St. Louis, Missouri. Although neither of the two teams advanced, the novice team had a three and three preliminary round record. According to MacDonald, St. Louis was a more rigorous tournament than any previous one. 
The varsity team of Renegar and Matt Salzman plan to de­bate next weekend in Emporia, Kansas. Mahoney said he is confident the two will perform well due to their experience and success debating together last year. 
The team will close the semester with a tournament in Ohio after fall break. Renegar said the team is excited to "switch to a new, less esoteric topic, rejuvenate and form fresh ideas." According to Renegar the team is more spir­ited and dedicated this year and is increasingly aware that "debate is perhaps the greatest game, an intellectual game of 
wit." 
brochures on the campus of Notre Dame for "free in­formation for students who need scholarship money." 
The organization offers to match its participants' qualifi­cations to information gleaned from a database of almost 250,000 scholarship listings for a fee of $49. The company, which boasts a 95 percent suc­cess rate, "absolutely guaran­tees to find one scholarship or more." Russo warned that it is possibfe that the program is a scam. 
He recommended that stu­dents spend their time and ef­fort attempting to secure stu­dent aid from major sources like universities, government agencies and well-recognized scholarship programs such as the National Merit Scholarship Program. Between 90 and 95 percent of all student aid comes from these sources, said Russo. 
Students should answer a number of questions before spending money on a search program, he said: 
see SCAM I page 6 


page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Don't let a job 
become an 



obsession 
I think I've figured out------­
what happened. 
When I first joined The Observer my freshman year, I thought it was the best job on the planet. I was determined to out­write and out-edit everyone else that ever Paul P.earson has been or ever would be. I wanted to become a Assistant News legend in Observer lore. Editor 
And, besides, it was fun. 
However, as time passed, this newspaper became less of a job and more of an obses­sion. By now, my junior year, I was in a work­sleep-class-work-sleep-class rut (with the occasional "eat" and "drink" thrown in where they would fit). 
I think the worst part was when I realized that 90 percent of the people that I knew were people that I knew as a result of The Observer. 
That's when I decided to do something about it. That was the moment when I did the only natural thing that could be done by a person in this dilemma. 
I tried out for a play. 
More specifically, I tried out for the part of Ebenezer Scrooge in the upcoming Flanner­Siegfried Players production of "The Christmas Carol." I didn't know if I would actually have any talent as a thespian, but I thought "Oh, what the hell? What harm could it do?" (After all, it wasn't ~s if I was going to try skydiving or something.) 
I haven't had so much fun in so short a time since we beat Michigan at the last moment a year ago. When I got to read the part in which Scrooge wakes up a changed man and screams out "A Merry Christmas to everybody and a Happy New Year to the whole world," it was more therapeutic than any medicine around. 
Besides, I discovered, I wasn't all that bad at acting, if I do say so myself. 
The best part of it was that, in the amaz­ingly brief time I've been involved in the play, it has made my job at The Observer so much more fun. My job there is now a mere facet of my life again, just as it was when I was a freshman. 
What I mean to say is this: It is okay to make something you love a part of your life. The problem comes when you make it the ONLY part of your life. 
The solution is simple. If your involved in dance, learn about computers. If your main interest is studying nature, try a martial art. If playing the guitar is your thing, learn how to cook. Try something different, no matter how silly it may seem to you at first. 
The moral of this story, for all you freshmen still deciding what you want to do while you're here, is this: Being involved is good, but not to the point where your involvement becomes an obsession. As my good friend Jeannie once said, "The only good obsessfons are the ones you don't want your parents to know about." 
P.S. I didn't get the part of Scrooge, but, then again, that wasn't really the point, was it? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff: Accent: Production: Jahnelle Harrigan Melissa Cusack Meredith McCullough Cynthia Ehrhardt Patrick Moran Sports: Lab Tech: Rolando deAguiar Sean Farnan News: Jake Peters Peter Loftus Systems: Julie Barrett Cesar Capella Scoreboard: Jon Halloran Anthony King Pat Barth 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved . 
Tuesday, October 8, ~99~ 
Sunny, breezy and warmer today. Highs in the lower 60s. Lows in the upper 40s. 
··\i Increasing· ...'!1:.;; cloudiness and 

·  tonight.  
H  L  
73  59  
65  39  
64  48  
56  46  
57  33  
79  49  
83  38  
57  39  
91  73  
76  52  
58  31  
61  48  
69  61  
81  54  
85  76  
52  37  
68  57  
59  44  
57  37  
60  42  
77  54  
65  39  
75  55  
67  51  
54  36  
53  42  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Yugoslav warplanes attack Croats 
•zagreb, Yugoslavia -Yugoslav air force jets rocketed the presidential palace in the capital of se­cessionist Croatia Monday, narrowly missing the re­public's leaders and the federal premier. The precision onslaught came hours before a deadline set by the European Community for the parties to cease hostilities or face economic sanctions. It also came despite an appeal from Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev not to escalate the civil war. Many residents of Zagreb fled to shelters Monday night. Phosphorous flares illuminated the sky and explosions could be heard. At least 600 people have died since Croatia declared independence. Some estimates put the toll at 2,500. Many of the 600,000 ethnic Serbs in Croatia refuse to live in an in­dependent Croatia. Croats blame the war on Serbian expansionism. 

NATIONAL 
Liz Taylor marries for eighth time 
•LOS OLIVOS, Calif. -Elizabeth Taylor and ordinary guy Larry Fortensky took the plunge -along with a skydiving intruder -under a swirl of airborne reporters and photographers trying to glimpse the screen star's eighth wedding. Taylor, 59, and Fortensky, a truck driver 20 years her junior, were at a gazebo altar Sunday at Michael Jackson's whimsical Neverland ranch when a parachutist wearing a helmet camera dropped in, landing within 100 feet of the couple. Guards seized Scott Kyle Harris, a 34-year-old free-lance journalist from Sun Valley, and took him away in handcuffs. The parachutist was cited for trespassing and released. The Oscar­winning star met Fortensky in 1988 when both were at the Betty Ford Clinic to kick drugs. 


OF INTEREST 
•The Student Art Forum will meet with Dean Porter, director of the Snite Museum of Art, tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Snite. Porter will give an introductory tout of the museum. Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's interested in joining the Art Forum are welcome to attend. Refreshments will be served. 
MARKET UPDATE 


Young dads connected to disease 
•washington-A new study suggests that children of young fathers have a higher risk of late-developing Alzheimer's disease than do those fathered by middle­aged men. Lindsay Farrer, a Boston researcher who presented the study at a medical conference on Monday, said children born of 15-year-old fathers were found to be five times more likely to develop Alzheimer's disease late in life than were children born to fathers who were 
50. He said the connection between the father's age and development of the disease, however, applied only to patients who developed Alzheimer's late in life. 

Grizzly mauls two hikers in park 
•Glacier National Park, Mont.-A man and woman mauled by a grizzly bear after surprising it on a trail hiked four miles to their car and drove for help, authorities said. The two were reported in stable condition Monday. The couple had been hiking Sunday on the park's Trout Lake Trail, near the junction with Arrow Lake Trail, when they spotted two grizzlies on the trail, Ranger Jerry Nelson said. One of the bears charged from about 50 yards and attacked the man, and then the woman tried to assist the man and was also attacked, Nelson said. Then the bear stopped its attack and left, allowing the hikers to flee. Dale Johnson, 31, of Kalispell, Mont., suffered puncture wounds to the back, neck, shoulders and arms, and a broken elbow, Nelson reported. 


CAMPUS 

Students meet Indian prime minister 
•Twenty 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students traveling abroad in India and other parts of the world this semester met with Indian Prime Minister Narasimha Rao in New Delhi, India last week. Their meeting was published in the newspaper India Abroad. Rao talked to the students about the recurrence of social conflicts and riots in India and the nation's problem of poverty. The students are there to study Indian life and philosophy. 

•students 
United for Respect will hold a general meeting in Notre Dame Room of LaFortune at 7:45 p.m. tonight. All are welcome. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1871: One of America's worst urban fires Chicago and claimed more than 200 lives and destroyed more than 17,000 buildings. 

• 
In 1945: President Truman announced that the secret of the atomic bomb would be shared only with Britain and Canada. 

• 
In 1985: The hijackers of the Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro killed American passenger Leon Klinghoffer, dumping his body and wheelchair overboard. 

•In 
1990: Israeli police opened fire on rioting Palestinians on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem, killing 17. 


• 
• 
Tuesday, October 8, 1991 The Observer 
SMC Church of Loretto will undergo renovation soon 
glass windows with clear glass. 
In other business, it was an­nounced that tile annual Phonathon will be taking place the first two weeks in November. The first organiza­tional meeting will be Thursday, October 10 at 12:30 
p.m. in the dining hall. Student volunteers for the Phonathon can receive a free five-minute phone call for every two hours they work. 
Also, the Residence Hall Association (RHA) will sponsor a referendum on changing parietals at the dining hall this week. Any interested students may attend the next RHA meet­ing on Thursday at 7 p.m. in Haggar. 
This week is Security Awareness Week. There is a change in one of the events for the week-Rape 101 will be Thursday at 7:30 in the LeMans Tower Room. 
Drug dealing hotline in St. Joe County 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) -A 24-hour hot line to report sus-· pected drug dealing in St. Joseph County began Monday with members of the South Bend Police Department an­swering calls. 
The hot line will be staffed by department members 16 hours daily and will record calls the rest of the day, Police Chief Ronald Marciniak said. 
Information from callers will be checked for accuracy by the Metro-Special Operations Section. If warranted, the tips could result in further surveil­lance and other enforcement measures. 
Neil Gilbert of United 

Community Against Drug and Alcohol Abuse said the organi­zation hopes the hot line project will help Jaw enforcement agencies work with neighbor­hoods in the fight againiit drug . and alcohol abuse. 
"It is important for residents and police to cooperate in making neighborhoods a safer place," he said. 
The hot line also is expected to help enforce a new South Bend ordinance that orders landlords to evict tenants sus­pected of drug activities. 
The hot line number is 219­288-3784. From areas outside South Bend, the number is 1­800-540-3518. 
page 3 


Senate can cancel meetings 

By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed an 
amendment to its constitution 
which allows Senate meetings 
to be cancelled if no new 
business appears on the 
agenda, while a proposal to 
make Senate subcommittee 
meetings open to the public 
was rejected Monday. 
The constitution formerly 
stated that the Student Senate 
shall meet weekly. The new 
amendment, proposed by 
Jennifer Switzer and David 
Reinke. makes it possible to 
prevent any cancellation of 
meetings to obstruct 
discussion of a topic, 
providing that five Senators 
call a meeting if they feel it is 
necessary. 
Senator David Certo pro­
posed changing the 
amendment to make Senate 
subcommittee meetings open 
to the public. 
"I think we should make it 
clear to the students that we 
have nothing to hide," Certo 
said. 
In opposition to the change, 
Senators said that students 
have access to the records of 
the meeting and referred to 
the problems which might 
result if budget allocation 
meetings were open to special 
interest groups. Senators 
also said they have seen little 
interest in public ,attendance 
of past committee meetings. 
While Certo's proposed .change was rejected, all 
general meetings of the 
Student Senate remain open 
to the public. 


By CHRISTINE SERAPHIN 
News Writer 
The renovation of the Church of Loretto on Saint Mary's campus was the main topic at Monday's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting. 
Sister Mary Turgi, chairper­son of the Loretto Renovation Committee, cited two major reasons for the church's reno­vation: 
•
Because of the structure of the church, the acoustics make it very hard to understand the speakers; 

•The 
church was built in 1956 prior to Vatican II, and the church committee would like to update Church of Loretto accordingly. 


Some of the major changes will include knocking out the first fifteen feet of the mosaics, replacing pews with chairs and possibly replacing the stained 



------------------------------------~-------------------, 
The Observer 

page4 Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
OUC to sponsor technology symposium for faculty 
Special to The Observer 
An instructional technology symposium for faculty and teaching assistants will be sponsored by Notre Dame's Office of University Computing (OUC} on Friday, January 10 at various Notre Dame computer labs. . 
The symposium will focus on new teaching approaches, highlighting current projects from other universities. The faculty workshops will offer hands-on experience with classroom software that can be used for teaching and course development. 
The symposium is open to all Notre Dame, St. Mary's and 
Frosh 
continued from page 1 
were not able to select one candidate by a majority. The two candidates who received the most votes in each hall will participate in the runoff. The three dorms with no candidates will announce their representa­tives later this week. 
The same voting times and procedures will apply in Holy Cross faculty and teaching assistants. 
"This symposium is designed to reach beyond the hardware and provide valuable informa­tion about how to apply these tools to academic work," said Shiree Moreland, OUC's assis­tant director for information services. "Making new teaching and learning tools available is a first step toward providing faculty with the resources nec­essary to implement new and innovative teaching ap­proaches." 
The event will include display projects, journals and literature oa software designed for classroom use, presentations on technologies that will be available in the new DeBartolo 
Wednesday's runoffs, according to Reindl. Freshmen may vote in their hall from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
The runoffs will be held be­tween the following candidates: Allison Heidbrink, Suzanne Fodor -Lewis; James C. Glover, Kevin McAward-Fisher; FraniMcLaughlin, Elizabeth Hanlon-Knott;Julia Hohberger, Margaret Garzelloni-Lyons; Amy Connolly, Karen DuBay, Gina Leggio-Breen-Phillips; Richard Palermo, Ryan classroom facility and a panel discussion on existing Notre Dame resources and support. Roger Schmitz, University vice president and. associate provost will lead the discussion. 
The symposium will include the following speakers: 

•Gregory 
Cran, Harvard University, keynote address "Learning Hypermedia Environment"; 


•John 
R. Jungck, Beloit College, "Bioquest: Learning vie Research and Group Problem Solving"; 

•Hugh 
Burns, University of Texas, "Innovative Designs for Learning in a Collaborative Classroom"; 

•Jeffrey 
Froyd, Rose-Hullman Institute of Technology, 


Grabow-Keena n ;Jorge Rodriguez,Bret We laj -Stanford; Rachel Mitchell, Samantha Spencer-Siegfried; Hong Ly, Amy Visnosky-Howard; David Bozanich, Trung Due Tu-Zahm; and Sean McHugh, Lee Haller-Flanner. The three-person runoff in Breen­Phillips resulted from a tie in the general election, according to Reindl. 
The representatives from Morrissey, Carroll, and Sorin "Integrated First-year Curriculum in Science, Engineering and Mathematics"; 

•Daniel 
Burnstein, Harvard University, "Business and Law Negotiations"; 

•Tod 
Porter, Youngstown State University, "Good Graphs: Economics and Statistics"; 

•Thomas 
Ludwig, Hope College, "PsychSim: Software for Introductory Psychology"; 

•Loretta 
Jones, University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, "Changing the Focus of Instruction with MultiMedia"; 

•Huseyin 
Kocak, University of Miami, "Phaser: An Animator/Simulator for Dynamical Systems"; 

•Dezso 
Benedek, University of Georgia, "Japanese Language 


Halls will be announced on Thursday, according to Reindl. No candidates entered the race from these halls. Each rector will choose the hi_s dorm repre­sentative. 
The Freshman Advisory Committee is a council of freshmen elected to address the activities and concerns of the Class of 1995. The representa­tives will select executive offi­cers and organize specific committees. 
This election procedure is 
Teaching:"; 

•Thomas 
Fletcher, Harvard University, "Crisis Management: Three Mile Island"; 

•James 
Johnson, University of Notre Dame, "Courseware for General Chemistry Laboratory"; 

•Murat 
Tanyel, Drexel University, "Software for Discreet Signals and Systems Engineering"; 

•David 
Herren, Middlebury College, "Hypermedia in Foreign Language Education"; and 

•Bernard 
Engel, Purdue University, "Soil and Water Conservation in Engineering." 


newly adopted, according to Reindl. In past years, the rector from each hall selected the representative. "Campaigning went well considering that we were all new at this. Next year we hope to have better partici­pation and a smoother pro­cess," Reindl added. 
"Elections will be beneficial,• because all other student politi­cal offices are elected positions. This should. encourage them to run again as upperclassmen," Reindl said. 
will bring. for businesses to build upon, nity can further the democratic Azanian People's Organization. "It's a market waiting to Overmeyer added. cause in South Africa, he said. The conference was orga­
ANC 
grow," said Turner. The corporate world should nized by Williams and George take part in the dismantling of Joining the ten delegates from Schroll, South African consul­
continued from page 1 
American businesses who in­Apartheid, Mbeki said. the ANC at the conference are tant for Colgate-Palmolive.
tives of two corporations that vest in South Africa will have Developing training programs, two members of longtime Schroll raised the approxi­
did not disinvest in South 
numerous natural and technical helping to change the white­political rival Inkatha. mately $70,000 needed to spon­Aftica, they pledged positive resources at their disposal, he dominated management struc­sor the conference through do­support for the transition to a said. ture and encouraging a more Also participating are six nations from many of the morepost-Apartheid government and The current economic sit­equitable system of ownership members of the Pan-Africanist than 40 corporations partici­1he economic opportunities it uation provides a "good base" are ways the business commu-congress and two members of pating, Williams said. 
CSSSSCIS'iSSSSSi'ii'*iSSSSSSS%%'%%%%%\SSSSSSSSSSS%%i'%%SSSSSSSS1 \SSSi51 Si*''i%%*SSSSSSSSISSSSSSSS*Sii'%SSS%S%'%SSSS% 

Do You Have Questions about the 
Honor Code?? 
Interested in Becoming A Part of the 
Honor Code?? 
Tuesday October 8 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
At the Dooley Room in LaFortune 
Si*SSISSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS*SS¥%\iiSSSSSSSS**SS*SSSSSSi''SSSSS*SSSSSSSSSSS'SSSSSSSSSSSS'i%%SS*SSSS%S%%'%iiSSSSSSSSS%S%Si 
r-------------------------------------~----------------------~----------~~ 
The Observer 

Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
page 5 

High court rejects anti­plant appeal 

CONCORD, N.H. (AP)-The Supreme Court on Monday rejected an appeal by opponents of the Seabrook, N.H., nuclear power plant, ending a nearly two-decade battle over federal licensing of the reactor. 
The high court, without comment, turned down arguments by anti-nuclear groups and Massachusetts officials that a radiation leak from the seacoast reactor would be a major disaster for thousands of summertime beachgoers in both states. 
Justice David Souter, formerly New Hampshire's attorney general and a state Supreme Court judge, didn't participate in the ruling. 
A Seabrook • critic acknowle.dged the Supreme Court decision signaled the end of opposition to a federal operating license for the reactor. 
Opponents have tried to block Seabrook through regulatory channels since plans for the project first were announced in 1972. Activists turned the plant into a symbol for the nation's anti-nuclear movement through civil disobedience that resulted in more than 3,000 arrests -since construction began in 
1976. 

The $6.6 billion. 1,150­megawatt plant is located at the southern tip of New Hampshire's 18-mile coastline, near popular beaches and about two miles north of the Massachusetts line. 
After years of wrangling over emergency planning for the plant's 10-mile evacuation zone, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission gave it a commercial license in March 1990, and it began operating five months later. 
The reactor initially was planned for operation in 1979, and the years of delays took a financial toll on plant owners. Lead owner of the Public Service Company of New Hampshire sought bankruptcy protection in 1988. 

Plant operators defend Seabrook as the safest, most closely scrutinized nuclear plant in history. But critics say plans are inadequate for evacuating a summertime peak population of 247,000 out of the 10-mile zone in case of a radiation leak or similar accident. 
New Hampshire officially supported the plant, but former Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis was a vocal critic of emergency plans for communities in his state within the 10-mile zone. 
The NHC started requiring emergency response plans after the 1979 Three Mile Island accident In Pennsylvania. Opponents complained that the NRC only required generalized assurances that Seabrook could cope with an accident. 

The U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia • upheld the commission's licensing procedure in January, calling 
the  agency's  approach  "a  
reasonable  exercise  of  ...  
discretion."  

Diane Curran of the New England Coalition on Nuclear Pollution, with headquarters in Brattleboro, Vt.. said Monday's high court rejection is "the end of the road on emergency planning." 
The Ob581Ver/Garr Scwartz 
Pay tribute 

Father Patrick Gaffney, associate professor of anthropology at ND, speaks ~bout the the seven sorrows of the Blessed Mother as part of the Tnbute to Our Blessed Mother lecture series held on cam­
pus. 

Hill: Thomas created 'hostile environment' 
NORMAN, Okla. (APJ -A former aide to Clarence Thomas said Monday that sex­ually inappropriate comments by the Supreme Court nominee had created a "hostile envi­ronment" at two federal agen­des. 
University of Oklahoma law professor Anita Hill urged the Senate to investigate and con­sider her accusation that Thomas had botherod her with talk of sex and pornographic movies. 
If the Senate does, "then I have done what I am obligated to do. But until that happens, I think then that none of us have done our jobs," she told re­porters. 
"That is what I consider an ollidal resolution." 
Senate leaders indicated they would proceed with a Tuesday evening vote on Thomas' nomi­nation and the White House de-. cried what some Republicans called an 11th-hour "smear" campaign. 
Hill said she didn't use the phrase sexual harassment in an affidavit submitted to the Senate Judiciary Committee but only talked about her encoun­ters with Thomas a decade ago while she worked for him in the Education Department and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. She said the com­ments came after she rejected Thomas' requests for a date. Thomas was single at the time. 
Hill said she was not alleging Thomas broke the law, but said she felt his actions created a "hostile environment," a guide­line often used in sexual ha­rassment cases. 
"It undermines his ability to faithfully enforce those guide­lines," she said. 
"It seems to me a person shouldn't have to violate the law in order for his character to be called into question," she said. "I want to focus on behav­ior." 
Thomas denies the allega­tions. 
Hill said her integrity had been called into question. She denied she was politically grandstanding and said she only responded to inquiries from the Senate panel and the media.• 
~---------------ARTHUR----------------~ 
ANDERSEN 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN &CO., S.C. 
All MBA's and undergraduate accounting and finance majors are invited to attend a presentation and reception at 7:30p.m: hosted by ARTHUR ANDERSEN on Tuesday, October 8th in the lower le~el of the CCE. 
Featured Speaker: Jim Kackley Chicago Office Managing Partner aitd Member Arthur Andersen's Worldwide Organization Board of Partners 
Dress is Casual 

THE PROBLEM: LOST CONTACT LENS 
THE SOLUTION: PROFESSIONAL VISION 
• 
We'll call your doctor at no charge to you and quickly replace your contact lens 

• 
Conveniently located near campus 

• 
Eye exams and complete vision care available 


20% Discount on materials to students and faculty 
~-­.=~ 
~

== ~ 
~ 
-=~=­
Professional Vision 
Dr. Ronald Snyder and Associates 
2n-1161 

VISA Mastercard 
1635 N.lronwood and Discover accepted 
North of McDonalds 
Refreshments to Follow 

pageS 
Hoosier rep. admits overdrafts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Rep. Jill Long on Monday joined four other Indiana lawmakers in ac­knowledging overdrafts at the private House Bank. 
The Democrat said she be­lieves the House Bank held two of her checks because she did not have enough money in her account to cover them. 
"I am embarrassed," the Democrat said in a written statement released by her Washington office. "I was not aware I had overdrawn my ac­count and I wish I had been notified by the Sergeant at Arms (who runs the House Bank)." 
During a review of all her bank statements last weekend, Long said she discovered that two checks in two separate months appeared to have been held 24 hours. 
Her monthly statements give no indication of any overdrafts, Long said. No tax dollars were used to cover the overdrafts which she said were "small." 
"Nonetheless," she said, "the responsibility for balancing my account is mine and the mis­take was mine." 
Four other Indiana lawmak­ers -Democratic Reps. Andrew Jacobs Jr., Frank McCloskey and Phil Sharp and Republican Sen. Dan Coats ­acknowledged overdrafts at the private House Bank. 
Like Long, Jacobs said he had never been notified of a weeken The other Indiana lawmakers said they covered their over­drafts the same day they were notified of them. 
Long brings to 44 the number of current House members who have said they overdrew their accounts. 
Scam 
continued from page 1 
• 
How long has the organiza­tion been in existence? 

• 
What are the credentials of those running the program? 

• 
Is it possible to obtain a re­fund if the participant is not satisfied? What kind of proce­dure must a student follow to get the refund, and what kind of documentation is necessary? 

• 
How often is the scholarship information pool updated for additions? 

•What 
is the success rate for the participants, and how much and what kind of scholarship money do they fmd? 


"I'm amazed how many peo­ple are so naive," Russo said. "Unfortunately, it's often those who really need the money most who are taken." 

NO GIMMICKS· ~ EXTRA INCOME NOW!~ 
ENVELOPE STUFFING-$600 -$600 IJV8rf weel; ­Free Dtallo: SASE 10 lkooh lntemollonll, Inc. 
P.O. llcl< 680605 •Orlando, FL 32868 


The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1991 Saint Mary's focuses on 'Security Awareness' 
By AMY GREENWOOD Saint Mary's News Editor 

Saint Mary's Student Government kicked off 
•security Awareness Week" Monday with a security forum atSMC. 
The evening began with a video about campus safety and awareness, followed by a panel discussion. The panel consisted of Richard Chledek, SMC direc­tor of security, and George Gherardi, a South Bend police officer from the crime preven­tion department. 
The panel fielded general questions about crime in South Bend, specifically about the in­crease in drug-related crime. 
Many questions were, how­ever, targeted at SMC campus crime. Participants raised con­cerns about the need for more knowledge of self-defense tech­niques. Gherardi raised con­cerns about learning self-de­fense, saying, "If you don't have daily training, it won't do you any good. Just use your in­stincts." 
Inadequate self-defense is not the only form of a false sense of security, according to the panel. Contrary to the views of the forum audience, the panel agreed that use of mace does not always provide adequate protection, and it can be used against the victim. 
Beginning today and continu­ing through Thursday, October 10, SMC Student Government members will be posted at the entrances to SMC in the evening. They will approach walkers and joggers who are walking alone or with head­phones and advise them of the dangers of their actions. 
"Security can't be responsible for students all the time, but students have to be responsible for themselves," said Maureen Lowry, student government president. "Student Government wants to encourage every student to be responsible for herself." 
Security awareness week continues through next Tuesday, October 15, when a husband and wife team will conduct demonstrations on self­defense. 

October 8 8:00P.M. Theodore's 
Guaranteed 
(or your money back) Tickets $3.00 at LaFortune 
Tuesday, October 8, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Haitian soldiers seize palace, name president 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti {AP) -Enraged soldiers stormed the Legislative Palace on Monday and forced lawmakers at gunpoint to name a Supreme Court judge to replace exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
About the same time, soldiers at the international airport burst into a room where eight foreign ministers from the Organization of American States and a senior State Department official were meet­ing the nation's military <;hief. 
The troops left the meeting a few minutes later, apparently without harming anyone, and then arrested a leading Aristide aide. 
The attacks seemed to con­
firm earlier suspicions that the head of the army, Gen. Raoul Cedras, lacks control over his forces. Cedras has said he did not plan the Sept. 30 coup and only took charge after lower­ranking soldiers threatened to kill Aristide. 
About 150 soldiers sur­rounded the palace at about 
4:30 p.m. and fired machine guns and assault rifles. No one was hit by gunfire, a legislator inside the building said, but soldiers struck some lawmakers with rifle butts. 
Details were sketchy on what happened next, but about an hour after the attack, state-run radio announced that the National Assembly had decided to invoke Article 149 of the constitution, which provides for a Supreme Court judge to re­place Aristide, who flew into ex­ile after the coup. 
Later, state-run TV reported that the judge who would be in­terim president was named Joseph Nerette. 
The broadcast showed the vice president of the Chamber of Deputies, Frantz Monet, reading a document it said was a resolution declaring that the presidency was vacant and that Prime Minister Rene Preval had been removed from office. 
The man reached by tele­phone inside the building said lawmakers had wanted to apply Article 148, under which the prime minister and his Cabinet run the government during a president's temporary absence. 
But the soldiers forced them to apply Article 149. In addition to providing for an interim government, the article sched­ules elections within 90 days. 
Aristide, an activist priest swept into power by a landslide election last December, could not run in the new elections be­cause a president cannot suc­ceed himself. 
As they stormed the palace, bent on assuring that Aristide did not return, some of the sol­diers shouted in Creole, "No trickery!" 
A spokesman for Aristide's party, the National Front for Change and Democracy Coalition, said lawmakers wrote the resolution at gunpoint. lie said soldiers pointed M-16 rifles at him, and a corporal he knew intervened to save his life. 
The spokesman, who asked not to be named for fear of re­taliation, called for foreign military intervention. "The con­stitution doesn't permit foreign military intervention, but the circumstances are exceptional," he said. 
At the airport, about 70 sol­diers stormed into a waiting room, where some of them them grabbed Port-au-Prince Mayor Evans Paul. A soldier fired into the air to scatter re­porters and photographers who tried to approach them as they hauled Paul away. 
Turkish embassy official slain in Greece 
ATHENS, Greece (AP) -1\vo leftist gunmen killed the Turkish Embassy's press at­
. tache Monday, the eve of 
· Premier Constantine Mitsotakis' visit to Turkey, officials said. 
Cetin Gorgu, 28, was shot as he got into his car outside his apartment building, said re­gional police. chief Simeon Papadogiorgos. 
Work one weekend a month and eam $18,000 for college. 
If you have the mind for college, but not the money, the Indiana Anny National Guard has a golden opportunity for you. Lend us your brainpower one weekend a month and two weeks a year, and we'll give you $18,000 or more for college. 
Under the New Gl Bill, you'll qualify for up to $5,000 for tuition and books. Then you'll get another $11,000 -or more -in monthly Anny Guard paychecks. Plus, a cash bonus of up to $2,000 as soon as you finish Advanced Individual Training. 
And if you have college loans, the Guard will help you pay those off, too, with up to $1,500 
INDIANA 
extra per year. No other service offers you so 
many educational benefits, and asks so little of 
your time. 
So, if you can spare one weekend a month for your country, call your local recruiter. liiirmNAL 
And help yourself to a higher education. 
GUARD
219-234-9258 

Americans at Equal Opportunity Employer their best 
L. 
Ballistics tests showed the Eleftherotypia, a police 
.45-caliber handgun was the spokesman said. lie said the 
same as that used several times letter condemned Turkish policy 
before by the November 17 ter­on the divided island of Cyprus. 
rorist group, a police 
spokesman said. He spoke on November 17 has killed 15 condition of anonymity, in ac­other people, including four cordance with Greek practice. Americans, since first appear­ing in 1975. It is named for the November 17 claimed re­date in 1973 when a military sponsibility in a communique junta crushed a student rebel­
sent to the newspaper lion. 
Iran frees American 
.
eng1neer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In what could be another sign of diminished hostility toward the United States, Iran on Monday freed an American engineer imprisoned for five years on spy charges. 
Jon Pattis, 54, arrived in the United States, saluting re­porters as he deplaned in Augusta, Ga., a few miles from his hometown of Aiken, S.C. He said it was "great" to be back but sped away in a car without answering further questions. 
Officials in Washington had earlier dedined even to confirm that Pattis was headed for the United States, saying a mini­mum of publicity was one con­dition of his release. 
His release appears to be part of an improving climate in U.S.­Iranian relations since the death of Ayatollah Khomeini in June 1989. 
Iranian officials have recently 

-;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;--iiiiii~~~~iiiiiiiiiiii~-~~~~~~~~.;..;~;.;..;..;~;.;..;.;~~~~~~~-l spoken about the possibility of
reaching agreements with the 

THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH PRESENTS 
THE -ANNUAL LECTURES ON PHILOSOPHYAND LITERATURE LANGUAGE AND INTERPRETATION IN ANTIQUITY
DONALD G. MARSHALL 
HEAD, DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS, CHICAGO 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 9. 1991 

4:15P.M. PHILOSOPHY AS OPPOSED TO WHAT? WAYS OF TALKING IN PLATO'S PHAEDRUS 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10. 1991 
4:15P.M. 
MAKING LETTERS SPEAK: RHETORIC AND INTERPRETATION IN AUGUSTINE'S DE DOCTRINA CHRISTIANA 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11. 1991 
4:15P.M. 

POLITICS AND LANGUAGE: FROM ARISTOTLE ON TRAGEDY TO DANTE 
ON ELOQUENCE IN THE VERNACULAR 
ALL UClVRES WILL OE HELP IN THE MO.ROOM, LA FOomJNE STUPE NTCENTER 
United States on a range of is­sues once the hostages in Lebanon are freed and frozen Iranian assets abroad are re­leased. 
Pattis worked for Cosmos Engineers of Bethesda, Md., at Iran's main satellite ground station at Assadabad. He was arrested after the facility was bombed by Iraqi jets during the Iran-Iraq war In 1986. 
He was sentenced to 10 years in prison in 1987 by a revolu­tionary court on espionage charges. 
Pattis was quoted in a Tehran television interview in 1986 that he had engaged in spying for the Central Intelligence Agency. He was quoted as saying he had worked in Iran on various projects since 1969 and supplied the agency with information on telecommunications sites and projects, black market money rates, rumors about the health of Khomeini and other internal subjects. 
The State Department denied in 1986 that Pattis had been working for the U.S. govern­

........................................................................................llment. 
page 8 The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
Lesbian city worker entitled to sick leave 
DENVER (AP) -A city worker who took time off from her job at a hospital to care for her injured lesbian lover was entitled to sick leave, a hearing officer has ruled. 
The ruling, released Sunday, overturns a Department of Health and Hospitals decision to deny social worker Mary Ross three days of sick pay. 
Hearing officer Margo Jones said Ross's lover, Jeannie DiClementi, is a member of Ross's immediate family and the city was required to con­sider her sick leave request regardless of sexual orientation. 
"Failing to apply the sick­leave rules without regard to an employee's sexual orienta­tion violates (Ross's) rights," Jones ruled. "A heterosexual employee ... would be granted the use of his-her accrued sick leave to care for their immediate family members." 
Ross has been battling the city over terms of the city's anti-discrimination policy and the definition of "immediate family" in its personnel code. 
"It was a question of stand­ing up for your rights and standing up for principle. And no one has a right to tell you who your family is," Ross said. 
Ross took time off from her work at Denver General Hospital on Dec. 6 and 7 after DiClementi had an allergic re­action, passed out and fell down a flight of stairs, suffer­ing serious injuries. 
Ross also requested a sick day May 8, 1991, to be with DiClementi during follow-up tests. 
"I think the hearing officer pfoperly applied the agency's own anti-discrimination pol­icy," said Ross's lawyer, Lino Lipinski de Orlov. "I think the bottom line of the ruling is the city has to treat same-sex spouses the same as heterosexual spouses." 
J. Wallace Wortham, an as­sistant city attorney, said he would appeal the decision to the Career Service Board, which has final say. He said Ross failed to prove discrimination occurred. 
Iraq launches attack on Kurds 
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) -Iraq launched a large ground and air attack against towns in Kurdish territory in northern Iraq over the weekend, killing as many as 30 people and wounding at least 350, accord­ing to reports Monday. 
Up to 15,000 residents of Kifri and adjoining Kafar fled when shelling began Saturday, the London office of the Kurdish Democratic Party said. Helicopter gunships attacked some of them on the road the next day, it said. 
It said in a statement tele­faxed to The Associated Press in Nicosia that 26 civilians and four fighters were killed. 
Another rebel group, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, said the Iraqi army had at­tacked with more than 100 tanks and more than 80 ar­tillery pieces. The group said more than 20 Kurdish civilians had been killed. 
The Kurdish Democratic Party said the attacks marked a broken promise by Saddam Hussein. Kifri and Kafar, about 100 miles north of Baghdad near the Iranian border, were earlier ceded to the Kurds in autonomy negotiations with the Iraqi leader, it said. Those talks stalled in June when Saddam withdrew his promise to set up a democratic government in Baghdad. 

An unofficial cease-fire has been in place for five months to facilitate talks between the rebels and the government. In a less serious violation of the truce, Iraqi troops and Kurdish guerrillas clashed briefly in the towns of Kirkuk and Suleimaniya a month ago. 
Saddam over two decades has repeatedly reneged on promises to the Kurds, whose homeland covers a mountainous northern area of Iraq and also includes portions of Turkey, Syria and Iran. 
In Brussels, Belgium, a spokeswoman for the world humanitarian organization Doctors Without Borders said the attacks had wounded at least 350 people Monday in Kurdish areas. 
She said the air raids and ar­tillery barrages began early Monday at the Iranian border. Kifri, Kalar and Derbadhikan were hit and attacks spread south of the major town of Suleimaniya. 
The spokeswoman said 250 wounded were taken to the Suleimaniya hospital where Doctors Without Borders has a team operating. More than 100 wounded were taken to a field hospital of the humanitarian organization in Sayed Sadiq, where 1 ,000 refugees an hour were streaming in, she re­ported. 
Kalar, with a population of 60,000, was practically empty, the spokeswoman said, and a mass exodus of refugees toward Iran was expected. She spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals when she travels to the area. 
In March, after the Gulf War defeat of Saddam, Kurdish rebels rose up in attacks on Iraqi forces, only to be crushed weeks later and forced into massive exile. With the help of allied troops escorts, they re­turned to Iraq. 
The multinational allied force was withdrawn on July 15, after Saddam agreed to grant the Kurds autonomy. U.S. mili­tary aircraft continue to fly over the Kurdish region to monitor developments from Incirlik air base in Turkey. 
Campus Ministry 
... considerations 

The occasion of 'National Coming Out Day' and recent 
campus debate on the 'safe haven concept' offer an 
opportunity to reflect on the situation of gay students at 
Notre Dame. 
A 1986 letter from the Congregation of the Faith to the National 
Conference of Catholic Bishops of the United States declares that 
"while homosexual Inclination Is not In itself a sin, neither is 
homosexual activity a morally acceptable option •..•" The letter 
urges homosexual persons "to form chaste, stable relationships." 
For centuries, the Catholic Church has taught that the only proper 
place for genital sex Is within the permanent bond of marriage and 
in the context of the potentiality for new life. This sexual ethic 
applies to all people; in asking homosexuals to live up to this 
standard, nothing Is asked of them that is not asked of 
heterosexuals or bisexuals. This may be a difficult standard, but it 
is one which gives witness to the Kingdom of God, proclaimed by 
Jesus, where heterosexuals alike are called. 
Since Notre Dame is a Catholic University, the official perspective 
of the Institution toward homosexuals Is that of the Catholic 
Church, namely, that while homosexual orientation is not sinful, 
homosexual acts are. 
The same Is true, of course, for those who might seek the Church's ethical approval of heterosexual acts outside the permanent bond of marriage. 
An impasse can be reached In dialogue with either group or situation, since Catholic teaching does not sanction as morally acceptable or neutral a sexually active lifestyle outside marriage. 
It Is Important to assert that anything that the Church says to its members or that we say to homosexual students, faculty members, staff or alumni, must be said withvunderstanding and with pastoral compassion and sensitivity. Notre Dame must stand with the Church In stressing that homosexuals are our brothers and sisters, and that with us, are the well beloved children of a God whose love for us is without measure, regardless of our sexual orientation. In practice, this means that offensive actions, from thoughtless jokes to harassment, contradict the bases of Christian community. 
When a person becomes a member of a community, and all the more so when the foundation Is Christian as in our case, there is a legitimate expectation that one will live in an atmosphere of peace and security conducive to growth and happiness. At Notre Dame, 
we should be able to assume this as a baseline, and offer more. 
This means that we are obliged to contribute to the creation of a 
peaceful climate which helps all the members of our community to 
develop confidence in themselves and which urges them to be 
compassionate with others. 
Therefore, to harass, belittle, taunt, scorn or humiliate members of 
our community who are homosexual because of their orientation i 
simply intolerable at Notre Dame or anywhere else, and these 
actions should be rejected by all who bear the name of Christ. 
Our challenge as a community is not simply to avoid doing the wrong thing, but rather to do what is fitting and correct. The Gospel urges us to have the same sentiments towards one :;.or-..·nn...r• that Jesus has for each of us. 
This means that we should go out of our way to accept, promote and defend the rights of all the members of our community so that each of us can develop our God-given talents for the love of God who created us and In service of our fellow human beings. 
It means that we should scrutinize our prejudices, assess our vocabulary and examine our attitudes to see If we are tolerant and willing to accept those who are different from us; to see if our attitudes toward others reflect, no matter how dimly, those of Jesus Christ. 
If we are unwilling to examine our expressed and sometimes implicit negative attitudes towards those among us who are homosexuals, indeed, even if we are simply reluctant to do so, it is only with difficulty that we can call ourselves followers of Jesus Christ in any meaningful way. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 

On October 11·12, 1991, NOTRE DAME 
will celebrate WORLD MISSION SUNDAY 
All collections campus-wide, including 
at SACRED HEART CHURCH, will be used 
for the support of Holy Cross missionaries 
in the developing world. 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, October 8, 1991 Page 9 

Loving, prayerful confrontation lacks the uncaring qualities of gay-bashing 
Dear Editor: be true with regard to we are not doing the loving 
Hobert Griffin's "A lov.er's unbelievers, but for those who thing at alL Love requires quarrel I have with my church" are followers of Christ this is confrontation, confrontation of (The Observer, Sept. 27) con-precisely not the case. the right sort. And we all fuses some issues in his Scripture says that we are should be open to such 'quarrel' with the Church. "baptized into one body" and confrontation when others 
Gay-bashing is not a clear that we are "members one of share lovingly with us, so that term. It can imply two very dif-another." We are to care for we can grow in our walk with Dear Editor: an independent being. 
ferent thin~s: each other, watch out for each Christ. 
I would like to address one of Secondly, except in the case of1) Gay-bashing might be used other, and keep each other ac­Certainly Griffin would not the many arguments used by rape and incest, if a woman hadwhen a person believes that countable. It is an essential want his article to be called one pro-choice advocates to support true control of her body, shehomosexuality is wrong and part of God's redemptive life for which bashes gay-bashers. He their stand on abortion, namely would not be pregnant in the
harmful, and against God's us, though it flies in the face of would want it to be seen as a perfect will, and lovingly and modern Western individualism. loving rebuke. And loving re­that of a woman's right to have first place. prayerfully discusses this with a The fact that the truth is spo­bukes are not bushings. control of her own body. Therefore if the women who guy friend. This certainly ken without love is very terrible Griffin closes his article by First of all, from the time of support the pro-choice view should not be called guy-bash-and has harmful consequences. saying that he has been conception, according to some truly wish control of their 
ing at all. The truth should be spoken, defending the rights of gays in immunologists, "the mother's bodies, they should learn to 
2) It may denote ridiculing, though, and spoken by those his articles for twenty years. 
immune system regards the control those actions which may heckling, threatening, or who care. Griffin is right when Does he mean that he has been fetus as a mass of foreign result in the formation of an­otherwise hazing someone be-he says that "gays and straights defending the gays against tissue" ("Hostile Womb," other independent body. 
cause they are gay. This is ob-alike are pardoned for having unloving confrontation? If so, 
Discover, March 1988,). Julie E. Leonard
viously unloving and uncaring sinned and fallen short of the the Church is already in Therefore the being in question McCandless Hall abuse, and should always be glory of God." complete and hearty agreement in the case of abortion is not Oct. 4, 1991condemned. Forgiveness, however, comes with him, and so is the Bible. If part of the mother's body but
My point is that believing with repentance. When we ask he means to proclaim that homosexuality is a sin and, in forgiveness for something, we homosexuality is not sin, love, tolling someone, is not also must repent, change what­however, that is a different 
Responsibility is the key to 
gay-bashing, but is an act of ever it is we are doing which is matter. love. The Christian faith is one sin. The Church is never to Furthermore, if he is using that believes there are definite condone our continuing in sin. emotional, pejorative terms like 
condom, abortion issues 
rights and wrongs, and that Griffin says, "Confrontation gay-bashers to refer to people Dear Editor: responsibility for providing athese affect our relationship humiliates truth whose outward who think that homosexuality is Upon reading Rich Szabo's means for the disposal of awith God, each other and our and visible sign should be the a sin, and who, in love, share column of Sept. 30 concerning human life freely created inown well-being. love that casts out fear which that with brothers and sisters the infll'lllary and condoms, one pregnancy?
Moreover, the Scriptures say heckling generates." Let's not that they care about, then I word struck me: responsibility. Unwanted, unborn childrenthat we are members of one be confused. There are two think he has been missing the Szabo claims that the infirmary are a difficult responsibility, butbody, and that we must types of confrontation: loving mark these last twenty years, has the "responsibility to look they are nevertheless the re­therefore "speak the truth to and prayerful confrontation, and that he is rightly opposea out for the health of their sponsibility of their creators. 
one another in love." and uncaring confrontation. by the Church. 
charges" by providing condoms. The destruction of life canThere is a pervasive view Not only is truth not humiliated In reality, how can those who never be considered a truly re­these days that everyone has a by the first sort, but truth Andrew Koehl make the conscious, adult sponsible act. There is no easyright to privacy, and that requires it. Off-campus 

everyone should "mind his or If we choose not to confront a Sept. 27, 1991 her own business." This may brother or sister who is in sin, 
The Observer retains the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. Please note that the more concise the piece, the less we will have to edit it to fill our space. Send ideas to The-observer, Box Q, Notre Dame Indiana, 46556 or bring them to The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
DOONESBURV 
U5T&N, 8.0., IF YOU CON'T lAKt THIS [:¥IT& 5tRJ­aJ5/..Y, 7HtN YOU {AN f()fff£1"fJ80lfT G6TTING 8/J.O< 70­ 50 T&U. M/3 A!30UT YWR­5af. /A/HAT ARt YW IN­lm357!31? IN! /  TH& U5UAL.. /JJATCHING TV. HAVING AfftU f3/?£/A!:3. 7HAT 50RT OF~ING.  YOUKNW, !ff3a./)K/3 I'Ve !<NOON YOU MYIAJH(}tb Uf'e. ~-;....!  
G&THt:R.'I ,.,...-.....,_  

decision to engage in sexual .. ac­way out of such a situation, but tivity in any reasonable way then again, considering the transfer to the infirmary the gravity of the issue, should responsibility for their protec­there be? tion from disease? Mary Ann Tebben 
Similarly, how can anyone Pasquerllla West reasonably pass oft on the Oct. 2, 1991 courts or the government the 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It is better to be too much for others than to be too little for God.' 
E.A.Vanek 
We print student quotes with name: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••••••••••••••.•.••.•• Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sport• Editor •.•.•.••••.....David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary'• Editor ............ Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LEmRS TO THE EDITOR 
WEHAVE.MET 
THE ENEMY 
ANDBEISUS. 
f 
Viewpoint

Page 10 Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Adoption: a painful, yet responsible and loving decision 
Dear Editor: actions she'd made, she chose unborn child is somehow less education in order to scrape courage of her subsequent 
Over the past few weeks to precede responsibly and than human. I'd bet money together an existence for decision. Friends rallied 
have followed closely the unselfishly in carrying her that for all her professed herself and her baby, when around her, faculty wrote 
written volleys between child to term. In a sense she knowledge, she's never laid a there are so many childless notes of support and 
abortion supporters and "made her bed, then decided hand on the abdomen of a couples who would give admiration. 
opponents which have ap­to sleep in it," even though it mother-to-be, never felt the anything for the c·hance to She is now attending one of 
peared on these pages. The meant a loss of privacy, vi~]ent kicks, impatient provide a child a stable home? the most prestigious liberal 
subject of human life before occasional feelings of shame wriggles or muffied hiccups of Adoption is not the shirking arts colleges in the midwest, 
birth and the-plight of unwed and embarrassment and a an unborn child. of a duty, it is the bestowal of and receiving the education 
mothers is one for which I great deal of emotional hard­Ms. Bruzzese, in a treasured gift. Yes, adoption which she deserves so richly. 
harbour a great deal of ship. concentrating on the economic is painful, but how much more And her beautiful four-month 
interest and concern, for at It has been through watching plight of the unwed mother painful the guilt at having ter­old son is being raised by a 
age eighteen I am already a her this past year and and "society's repressive minated a new life? Yes, adop­loving family who will never 
seasoned labor coach. att.empting to support her as approach to the role of women tion requires admitting to your take for granted the gift that 
No one ever thinks they'll be­best I can that I feel the need and children in our culture," parents the truth of your sexu­he is. 
come pregnant before mar­to take issue with both the leaves out one important ality, owning up to your irre­Perhaps if more young 
riage; and neither did my best letters of Ms. Jennifer option for women who choose sponsibility in preventing the women were aware of all the 
friend, Kehri. But as we Rasmussen (The Observer, to act responsibly and carry conception, and accepting the options open to them, less 
entered our senior year of Sept. 18) and Ms. Michaela their children to term. judgement of friends, teachers time would be wasted arguing 
high school she found herself Bruzzese (The Observer, Sept. In all this debate, has anyone and the public at large. about the right to end a life, 
faced with the prospect of 25) on a few points. mentioned adoption? Why But it can be done. In a tiny, and more discussing the issue 
motherhood and a vast array Ms. Rasmussen, in trying must the pregnant woman all girls Catholic school admin­of how to foster one. 
of very tough, very adult hard to validate her claim that who chooses not to terminate istered by nuns, my friend Laurie Gilbert 
decisions. women in this country deserve the life of her unborn child found not condemnation for Walsh Hall 
Yet rather than run away the choice to abort or not, raise that child in a broken the mistake she'd made, but Sept. 25, 1991 
from the consequences of the stoops to argue that an home? Why must she forgo an encouragement for the 
People should have the right to oppose homosexuality 
Dear EdHor: that the gays and lesbians of The resolution states that crack-users because of their they are is undoubtedly wrong, 
In light of the recent contro­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "We, Stanford Hall, d'o habit. I don't condone any of but in making a moral decision versy over the issue of declaring could slap the label of "Safe recognize, understand, and those activities mentioned the only way to judge a persondorms "Safe Havens" for Haven" on the dorms who do agree to observe the non-dis­above; in fact I oppose both of is by their actions. homosexuals, I felt that I should reaffirm the existing policy? crimination policy as outlined in them. There are many people who evaluate the entire situation for This term makes one envision du Lac and will not tolerate However, people do have a don't oppose the what it's worth. dorms as being some sort of violations of that policy in our right to live their lives any way "homosexuals," but oppose 
Michael Vore and his officially Shangri-La for homosexuals, hall." The resolution they wish, be it good or evil, homosexuality. We have that unrecognized affiliates have which has nothing to do with passed... unanimously. We re­natural or perverse. Everyone right and deserve to not be ha­asked the dorms to declare what the terms of the resolution fused to let the label "Safe will discover what right and rassed by anyone because we themselves to be "Safe Havens" actually say. Even so, thank Haven" be attached to the reso­wrong actually is when they die. feel that way. I will never be­by affirming their acknowl­you very much for the lution, however. Until I die, I will not discrimi­lieve that homosexuality is right
edgement of du Lac's policy of wonderful label Mr. Vore. I I voted to pass the resolution, nate against anyone, nor will I because it "feels right" to some non-discrimination with respect know how much the but does that mean I showed try to force my ideas onto them. people. to sexual preference. homosexual community seems my support of homosexuals as People should be able to think At the next SYR, if I see a cou­
This request seems quite to enjoy certain "labels" which Michael W. Miller would like to as they wish concerning moral ple of the same sex displaying reasonable, but is quite have been put on them in the believe? The answer is no, I issues, but the gay/lesbian affection, I hope nobody mis­redundant when one past. support non-discrimination. I spokespeople have not extended takes my puking on the floor as remembers that every student At a recent hall council meet­will not discriminate against that courtesy to the discrimination or harassment. agrees to abide by du Lac with ing, we, Stanford Hall, decided homosexuals such as shouting heterosexual• community at There is just something that is his/her enrollment each that although it might not be demeaning phrases at them. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. gut-wrenching and unnatural semester. necessary to address this issue I also won't attempt to I'm sick of people trying to about homosexuality that seems 
Why then would it be and that it would probably do physically harm those who force everyone to accept homo­wrong to me. necessary to agree to follow a nothing to change existing sit­admit to practicing beastiality sexuality by making those who Jim Ouellette policy which we've already uations, we would make our (which is considered a sexual oppose it seem like had guys. Stanford Hall agreed to follow? Could it be so feelings known. preference), and I won't harass To judge people because of who Oct. 3,1991 
'Deception' of evolution should not overshadow biblical ideas 
Dear EdHor: I had just finished about monkeys. There wasn't a God fundamental Christians now at such a stupid idea, "You 
My freshman year at ND three months of studying that created Adam and Eve consider an occultist. mean we evolved from was 1970. There were no girls behavioristic psychology, and us too and before whom After Vatican II, the Church monkeys!" yet. I came to seriously believe evolutionary geology (taught "we were responsible to be experimented with many new Their response reminded me along with most of my friends by a priest), and writings by holy. ideas and my generation got of my senior year in a theology that ND was survivable only if authors like Herman Hesse Unfortunately a few seconds to try them out. Unfortunately, class when I asked if St. Paul one had a girlfriend. (Siddhartha). after I had picked up the book the result was that most of my believed in a literal Adam and Unfortunately, I was in a Since I was a public school I was arrested for shoplifting! class had no faith in a Eve. The professor replied, "Of program that gave me very lit­Catholic and had never read I could not believe it. But I personal God who came to the course he did, but now we tle time for thinking about the Bible yet (let alone hardly was a little drunk and maybe I earth in Jesus Christ to know better." girls and besides, ND had any other books) it is not looked suspicious. I felt they redeem man back from the In the last twenty years seven times more men than surprising that I was quite were wrong but nevertheless I consequences of Adam's sin. there has been a revolution in Saint Mary's did women. influenced by what I had been got to spend New Year's Eve in Our thoughts were more like philosophy. In 1970 God was 
When Christmas break reading. So even though I the Dallas City Jail. Albert Camus' than Jesus not even considered a finally came my roommate, would never miss Sunday I made my one phone call to Christs'. reasonable idea at most myself and some friends drove mass unless I \'VaS very sick this girl I just met from Malcolm Muggeridge, the re­universities. Today, He is to Dallas for the Cotton Bowl and would immediately go to Marquette University. She was cently deceased famous again the starting point for game. Actually we went more my knees upon awaking every into Eric Fromm and his book British Christian philosopher most philosophical thought. for girls than for the football morning to pray the Apostles The Art of Loving. Her in­said that modern man's belief This phenomena is not that game. Creed, I decided to quit in terpretation of Fromm's idea in evolution will prove to be mysterious. 
dn downtown Dallas I met order to be more honest in of love was definitely not the the biggest lie mankind has "Has not God made foolish 
the most beautiful girl I'd ever checking these new beliefs Bible's. ever fallen for. It is almost the wisdom of the world?" The seen. However in order for me out. Maybe the Apostles Creed My actions were a partial unbelievable how much wisdom of evolution is proving to stay with her I had to was not the place to anchor reflection of the influence of Darwinian style evolution is to be nothing but a deception attend this lecture. ( I later my faith. my studies. I thought evolution still being taught at Notre as the facts are uncovered. discovered it was a sermon. Since I was getting nowhere was certainly true and the God Dame. Worse yet is the St. Paul warned that those She had been to school all with these girls in Dallas I de­of the Bible simply was not virtually zero exposure who rely on man's wisdom 
semester and she wanted to cided to take off and find relevant for us. students get to a genuinely rather than God's Word will be hear another lecture!) I tried something else. They had I had heard that Father biblical concept of origins. taken "captive through wrong to get her interested in what I forced me to think on what I Burchaell was teaching that One reason I was motivated philosophy and empty wanted, but she was obviously really believed. I happened to Christ was not really literally to write this was that I deception. For since in the thinking about something else. walk by a bookstore that resurrected. I found out later recently substituted for a fifth wisdom of God the world I met several other girls opened out into the street. I that he accepted the then grade class in a local Christian through its wisdom did not from her same group who also walked in searching for the popular teaching of the school and we studied the come to know God, God was only wanted to discuss the book I thought explained the famous German theologian Adam and Eve story. I asked well-pleased through the Bible. I thought to myself that truth the best. Rudolf Bultman: -the them if they believed it was foolishness of the messageI did not have time for fairy I found Desmond Morris' resurrection account was a really true. They almost preached to save those who 
tales. There were much better book The Naked Ape . The story more akin to the Adam became indignant. Of course it believe." books than the Bible if truth is real truth was not the Adam and Eve myth. Also my rector was. I told them that at Notre Pete Helland what they really wanted to and Eve story but rather that in Flanner Hall was a Jungian, Dame most students do not Notre Dame, class of '78 know. we in some way evolved from a follower of Carl Jung, whom believe it is true. They laughed-Oct. 4,1991 
Accent 
Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
page 11 



Alumnae bring working world to Saint Mary's ' 
By AMY BENNETI 
Accent Writer 
When Sandra Lopke started her junior year at Saint Mary's, she kn.ew nothing about Arthur Andersen & Co. 
However, after participating in the Alumnae Association's Networking program, she spent last summer as an intern with the accounting firm-one of the largest in the world. 
wl had no idea how much I'd see or how many people I would meet," said Lopke, a Saint Mary's senior. 
The Networking Career Exploration Program, _sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Alumnae Association, matches Saint Mary's students with alumnae in the students' field of study. 
Students participate in the program during Christmas break, and may choose from six cities where Saint Mary's alumnae have volunteered (St. Paul, Minneapolis, Chicago, Washington D.C., Detroit, South Bend). 
Each student is responsible for contacting her alumna sponsor before their meeting date, and must provide her own transportation and lodging during her visit. Participants spend a partial or entire work day with her sponsor, and both participants are asked to fill out evaluation forms after the day. 
The Networking program was first suggested five years ago, when the Alumnae Board saw a need for some sort of career exploration program, according to Adeline Cashore, as­sistant director of Alumnae Relations. 
The Board researched programs already established by other schools, and in the spring of 1990 began the Networking program. In the first year, between twenty and thirty alumnae responded to the Alumnae Association's request for volunteer sponsors. In the next year, the alumnae response doubled, and this year the number has grown to approximately 230 alumnae volunteers. 
Likewise, student participation has grown steadily. Due to increased student interest, this is the first year that the program has been open to sophomores as well as juniors and seniors, said Cashore. 
The program may actually be more beneficial to sophomores than to seniors, she added, for sophomores still have time to redirect their courses of study whereas seniors are usually locked into their majors. 
At the organizational meeting, students are asked to prioritize sponsors from a list featuring the sponsors' names, careers, job descriptions, and specifications that the students must fulfill to be matched with each particular sponsor. 
When an alumnae sponsor is prioritized by more than one student, an attempt is made to match the sponsor with more than one student at a time, or individually on different days. 
Barbara Henry, the Director of Alumnae Relations, says the Alumnae Association will take note of a sponsor in high demand, and make every effort to bring that sponsor to campus as a guest lecturer. 
In their evaluations, most alumnae were praiseworthy of their students and the students' efforts to question and get involved. When asked what she found to be the most successful parts of the day, one alumna responded: 
NConversation and give and take-she (her student) asked questions all along the way and, I think, really got a feel for what this business is all about." 
Students' experiences with the Networking program have proved to be beneficial. After participating in the program, one student said, wRight now I can hardly wait to get out into the working world. The day that was spent ... changed my attitude about graduating." 
The Alumnae Association's Networking program gives Saint Mary's students a chance to experience a day in a true career setting with a Saint Mary's alumna. 
As Sandra Lopke said in her evaluation after her day with her sponsor, NOverall my expe­rience was very good. I am very happy that I had this opportunity and I'm glad I took advantage of it. 
Nit has helped motivate me, and it has made me realize that it won't be long before I, my­self, will be a Saint Mary's grad in the workplace. Thank you for this opportunity. This is a great program," Lopke said. 
SARG relates students to alumni 
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 

For most students, life after Notre Dame seems 
a long way off. In reality, it's just around the 
corner. . 

The Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) at 
Notre Dame recognizes this and is working to 
Npromote the relationship between Notre Dame 
students and alumni," according to Erich Miller, 
the group'~ president. 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni 
Association, SARG, a volunteer student 
organization, was formed in 1980. Each year the 
group coordinates many various student services 
and social functions to bring students and alumni 
closer together. 

Membership is open to all students at Notre 
Dame who are in good academic standing with 
the University. Approximately 45 students are 
involved with SARG, 20 participating actively, 
Miller said. 

The SARG Extern Program assists students in 
gaining first-hand career experience in their 
chosen profession. Students are matched with 
alumni whose education and career goals are 
similar to their own. 

The program resembles a mini­internship where students spend a week In the business world learning about a specific career of their choice. The purpose of the Extern Program is not to assist students in finding future jobs. Instead, it is meant to be used as an in­formational tool, Miller said. 
The goal is to provide future alumni Nwith a meaningful experience that will enable them to make intelligent career choices," according to the program literature. 
Approximately 300 Notre Dame alumni, solicited through the January Alumni Newsletter, are involved in the SARG Extern Program. wwe try to get alumni from all over the country," said Miller. 
During this fall break, 12-15 Notre Dame students will participate in an wexternship" in various places across the country. Because they are responsible for arranging their housing and transportation, they are encouraged to request a site close to their hometown or near relatives to keep expenses to a minimum. 
SARG is presently working to gain corporate sponsorship for the program, and is expecting 10 corporations to come forward with financial backing. 
In response to students or alumni who are unable to participate in the full Extern Program, SARG has developed alternatives. 
The SARG Alumni Career Network Directory is a compilation of all alumni who have agreed to act as phone contacts for students seeking information on career strategies and options. The directory is available through the Alumni Office. 
In the South Bend business community, SARG works with the local St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club to coordinate possible extern sites so that all students may participate, regardless of their financial situation. Because students are able to live on campus, this local program eliminates travel and eating expenses. 
SARG sponsors many other events each year. The Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series invites wfamous alumni who have made a difference," to speak on campus and discuss career options with students according to Miller.. 
Past speakers include Donald Barr, Publisher of Sports Illustrated; Congressman Romano Mazzolli (Ky.); and Ron Homer, President and CEO of Boston Bank of Commerce. 
The Pre-Med/Pre-Law trip sponsored by SARG allows students to visit the University of Michigan Medical and Law Schools each spring. Notre Dame alumni teaching at Michigan give studenlc; a first-hand look at academic life at two of the nation's best professional schools. 
SARG is responsible for coordinating the Notre Dame Holiday Host program each Thanksgiving and Easter. Students not able to return home are matched with local alumni and faculty for each holiday. · 
In every program sponsored by SARG, NThe alumni are willing to do anything to help stu­dents. 
"These students are going to be tomorrow's alumni," said Miller. 
> 
.. 
-
-· 
Accent 

Tuesday, OctoberS, 1991page 12 
By KAREN ALBERS 
Lena will be giving presentations Accent Writer entitled "You Are Special," a program concerned with empowerment and 
It is surprisingly more common than self-defense. heart attacks, left-handedness, or There is also a "Take Back The alcoholism. It is rape. Night March" tentatively planned for 
To most people, even the word Nov. 14, in which students from both 
sounds ugly; it is never spoken in Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will walk polite company. It ranks with incest or down the aptly named "Rape Road" in homosexuality as one of our culture's , a symbolic gesture of reclaiming the "taboos." But every day, hundreds of dangerous places on both campuses. women undergo the wrenching experience and suffer deeply for it. One of. the most important things
CARE educates students 
The terrifying truth about rape is everyone should know about rape is, that it can happen to anyone, at any 
"not to blame the survivor," says time, and be committed by anyone, Jurgenson. from a total stranger to a close friend "No one wants to get raped. No or even a husband. The FBI estimates means no-when a woman says no, that about 240 rapes occur in the she means no, not maybe," Lynch 
United States every day, and that nine says. "Unfortunately, we live in a so­out of 10 rapes go unreported. ciety that condones rape." There is still a mentality in our 
Rape is a crime that has serious culture that rape is a sexual crime, physical, emotional, and behavioral and women somehow bring it upon consequences for the survivor. He or themselves. Rape is not a "sexual" she may experience everything from crime, it is a violent crime, and should depression, loss of appetite, and self­be treated as such, according to destructive behavior such as alcohol Lynch. or drug abuse. Women need to understand that 
Self-esteem and self-respect are submission out of fear for their Jives is likewise damaged, as is the survivor's not consent. "Whatever you do to get willingness to trust others, especially through it is right," Lynch says. "If you after acquaintance rape. Many victims fight, fight with all you have." During a are reluctant to or simply do not seek sexual assault, most women are so 
counseling afterwards out of the belief terrified that they think they will die. that he or she is somehow responsible Reactions to rape are all different, for having been raped. but one thing is true of all survivors: That's where Campus Alliance for 
"There is life after rape-people Rape Elimination (CARE) steps in. 
survive and go on. They are survivors, CARE is a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
not victims," says Jurgenson. · College organization, whose goal it is to bring the issue of rape out in the 
If you are raped, or have a friend open and educate students about it. 
who has been sexually assaulted, "We know that approximately one 
there are people on the Notre out of four women will be a victim of happen to me." But it can happen to (Saint Mary's College) and the director Dame/Saint Mary's College campuses sexual assault in their lifetimes, and anyone. of Sex Offense Services at Madison that want to help. You should contact approximately one out of six women It's not just a women's issue, either­Center Laurel Eslinger, make up the Security, then call SOS (Sex Offense will be raped during their college ca­men do get raped, and have been ND/SMC CARE Advisory Board. Services) after a rape has been reers," says Teresa Lynch, co-chair­raped at ND. "It's a human issue," says CARE is planning presentations of committed. woman of SMC CARE Karen Jurgenson, co-chairwoman of rape (called Rape 101: A Course In There are counseling centers on 
SMC CARE Clear Communication) in all residence both campuses, with experienced 
She adds, "I think most people are halls at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, counselors that can help survivors of aware in some way that rape is a Jurgenson and Lynch, along with hopefully before Christmas break. rape to recover. problem at Saint Mary's and Notre Missy Sherman and Sheila Buckman, They plan to educate all students, not It's time to lift the taboos Dame, hut they may not have access to co-chairwomen of ND C.A.R.E., di­just first year students, about rape, surrounding rape. It's time to talk enough information." Most people's rectors of Residence Life Betsy and in particular, rape on campus. about and do something about it. attitude towards rape is that "it won't Pawlicki (ND) and Mary Kelleher On Oct. 14 and 15, Dan and Marie CARE can. And they are. 
Confusion surrounds 
Mellencamp's new image 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Whenever We Wanted 
Accent Writer 

John Mellencamp 
John Mellencamp is wearing a new 
* * 1/2 
costume. 

(out of five) 
Gone is the jeans-and-a-T-shirt image prevalent since his name was John 
These opening lines of Whenever We 
Cougar. He appears on the front of his Wanted, however, are some of the last 
new album, Whenever We Wanted, in of the album which aim at Mellencamp's 
an art studio wearing a ruffied shirt. 
previous audience. 
However, he keeps the same familiar The remainder of the album is just
mop of hair. His wife even makes an ap­plain rock 'n' roll. Mellen camp's pearance on the cover, wearing a sultry songwriting is, as usual, exceptional,satin dress and an enormous snake but his themes are Jacking. 
tattoo which could be a piece of the earlier Mellencamp image. 
This album contains most of the the 
As Mellencamp's image change is standard rock ideas. We have the usual: 
confusing, so too is his musical 
"The world needs love," "Every time I 
transition. Mellencamp has left the utter think about her/It just makes me sad,"
Midwestern down-homeliness of "Small and "And in the end it's always just
Town," and "Pink Houses" and replaced 
some game/Your heartbreak and 
it with a southern twang. 

laughter's all been in vain." These are but a few of the rock cliches explored
However, Mellencamp doesn't on Whenever We Wanted. 
completely forget his roots. He 
Though the ideas of the songs are 
remembers that he got to the top with lacking, Mellencamp has created a 
songs about life in the Midwest technically sound album. The singer's
(remember "Jack & Diane?"), and 
voice is typically gritty and soulful,
makes a half-hearted attempt to keep while his backup hand, held together by spiration. Southern rock, most recently John Mellencamp. 
his fellow Hoosiers (and their neigh­veteran drummer Kenny Aronoff, injected with the Black Crowes, is done In "Get a Leg Up," Mellen camp warns 
bors) interested with "Love and 
performs rock like a good bar band. by all big acts, including the current of impatience. 
Happiness." 

Whenever We Wanted makes a good giants of rock 'n' roll, Guns N' Roses. "And the moral to this song/ Don't goIn this song, Mellencamp decries the run at standard guitar-rock, though Now, Mellencamp has tried to make making hasty judgments/BecauseReagan-Bush administration's lack of "standard" is the crucial thought. his mark on southern music, but his sometimes they could be wrong" 
..... 
attention to domestic issues: Mellencamp, who had previously previous work betrays him. Indiana Indeed, Mellencamp should sing this "Well, we're droppin' our bombs/In the blazed trails as a Midwesterner singing rock, as done by the old John Cougar song to himself. He should avoid hastysouthern hemisphere/And people are about issues central to life in the Mellencamp, is simply more enjoyable judgments himself in the future, and starvinglfhat live right here." 

heartland, moves to the South for his in-than southern rock as done by the new stick with what he knows best. 

Tuesday, October 8, 1991 The Observer page 13 
1 

The Observer accepts ctassilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classllieds Is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED BOOKS CHEAPIIIIIIIIII 
25% off list price 
10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books corner of NO 
ave & Howard 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Typing 

Fast. Professional 
277-7406 
LOST/FOUND 
GLASSES FOUND! 
ONE PAIR MEN'S GLASSES IN 
LENSCRAFTERS CASE FOUND 
ON FRIDAY NITE, 10/4, NEAR 
LIBRARY. TO CLAIM, CALL 
COLETTE, 283-4434. 
LOST OR STOLEN 
LICENSE PLATE 
Illinois plate reading 
"D TROIT" missing since 
Thurs. 19 Sept.; came off 
somewhere between Kaplan 
Educational Center (next to Turtle 
Creek) and the D-2 lot. I realize It's 
cute, but it will cost a bundle to 
replace so PLEASE return if you 
have it and no questions will be 
asked!! If you have the plate or 
info, call4911. Generous reward 
offered. 
LOST!! IIIII 
at Steppan fields or tennis 
courts on Sunday, Sept. 29, 
gold Seiko watch and 3 rings that 
have lots of sentimental value. 
If found, please call x2867 
$$$$REWARD$$$$$ 
LOST!! II! A blue Notre Dame jacket with teal and white stripes on the sleeve. Yeah, the kind you can BUY at the bookstore! If whoever took this jacket from South Dining Hall on Tuesday, Oct. 1 could call X4000, and offer to return II, it would be greatly appreciated. 
Lost: blue NO sweatshirt in 
front of Cushing 10/1. If found, 
please call x1007. 
''LOST" 
WIDE, SILVER INDIAN 
BRACELET. LOST 9/10 
FAMILY HEIRLOOM-PERSONALLY 
PRICELESS. 
RETURN WILL ELATE THE 
OWNER! REWARD. THNX 
KATHY X3429 416LEWIS 
LOST: I was going to the 
cleaners and I dropped my 
roommate's lie somewhere 
between Flanner and 02 on 
Monday, October 7 at about 
12:45 PM. If you picked it up please call Jason at 1521 before he kills mel 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS JOBS.$900-2000 
mo.Summer,Yr.round,AII 
Countries.AII fields. Free into. Write 
IJC, PO Bx 52-IN04, Corona Del 
Mar CA 92625. 
Need ride to Newark or NY on 
break. Pay$.272-6324 lev.mes. 
DESPERATE! Need CONNELLS 
Tlcketslll Call X1891 
I need a ride for break to Philly­
Wifm-S. NJ area & back for USC game. Amy x4290 
FREE SPRING BREAKS TRIPS Promote and Organize our Spring Break tours. All materials furnished. Good Pay and Fun. Call Campus Marketing. 1-800-423-5264 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS to students or student organizations promting our Spring Break Packages. Good Pay and Fun. Call CMI. 1-800-423-5264. 
Earn $2500 and Free Trips Selling Spring Break Packages to Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips and Prices! Spring Break Travel 1-800-638­6786. 
"PITT TIX" I need 5 Also Need 1 USC x4421 
WILLING TO GIVE "SPECIAL FAVORS" FOR 2 NAVY GA'S PLEASEII CALL AMY X4684 
Wanted: 1 Pitt Stud & 2 Navy GAs: Please help. X4036 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
House tor Rent 

$200/Mo, Call Paul287-2159 
8am-4pm. 

1310 South Bend Ave. 
FOR SALE 
CATHOLICS vs. CONVICTS Ill 
T-Shirts, Sweatshirts, closeout. T­
Shirts $7. Sweatshirts, $12. Phone 
Game Day Promotions 291-6394. 
SEGA GENESIS & GAMES BST 
OFR X4070 

selling student ticket booklet x3025 
COMPUTERS! Mac+, 2dd, ptr. 
$700/bst John@271-9239 
Apl//gs Supersystem, $1100 
386sx mthrbrd/upgrade your 
PC! $350, 386 notebook 
40megs, VGA, $2400/b 
Matt x1778 

CD Player -asking $75 
call Mike at x1068 

TICKETS 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED. TOP$$$. 800-638-7655. 
PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX Alum needs 2 GA's for Pitt. Will pay $$$. Call at work 
(312) 701-6204 or at home 
(708) 616-7818 any1ime. PITT TIX PITT TIX PITT TIX 
NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE CALL JILL 272-1967. 
WILL TRADE 2 USC GA'S FOR 
TWO TENNESSEE GA'S. CALL 
601-249-3417 NIGHTS. 
HELPII I need PITT TIX tor my 
parents and some friends-if 
I don't get'em I'm dead!! 
Please call lynne@ X2614 
$$$$$ 

USC GA's needed. Call and leave 
message 277-9468. 
$$$$$ 
NEED TENN. GA'S. 

CALL MARK 312-902-5511 DAYS, 
OR 708-251-4502 AFTER 8 PM. 
NEED GA's AND STUD. TIX TO All HOME GAMES. X1578 
WON'T YOU MAKE AN OLD 
JESUIT'S DREAM COME TRUE? 
NEED 3 TICKETS TO NO vs. USC 
ON 10/26. CALL JIM AT 818-789­
0654 

2 USC stud tix for sale Tom or 
Brent 277-8790 
NEED 2 PITT GA's 
Monica X2680 

TICKETS!! I TICKETS!! I 
If you ANY tickets for any home game, call me Paul x3830 
TICKETS II! TICKETS I !I 
PLEASE!! 

SELL ME 1 OR 2 TENN TIXII 
X1684 

HAVE 2 STUD TIX TO ALL HOME GAMES, WILL TRADE FOR TENN. TIX, OR WILL SELL CALL JASON,287-8818. 
I HAVE PITT GAS FOR SALE -Call Matt x2318. 
I NEED TIX FOR PITT AND TENN 
CALL KEVIN@ 289-6541 
I NEED NEED NEED NEED WANT SEX PITT TIX SEX PITT PITT PITT TIX CALL ERIK AT X2090 
Give me your PITT Student Tlc and you will know the meaning of life (or at least get some money) Chris x3414 
usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc 
Vince Needs two GA's to see THE TROJANS Calf x3414 any1ime 
usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc usc 
TIX: I NEED THEM!! I need 2 GA's and 2 stud for Navy-big NO fans willing to pay-call Dave #1436. 
NEED GAs FOR PITT AND USC. MONEY NO OBJECT. Call Ron x2157 
Help, I need 2 Tenn GAs for Tenn. for my good looking, available, uncle, who has never seen a game at NO-call laura at 277-9185, please! 
Will trade/deal 2 Pitt GA's for 2 Tenn GA'S!Stu tix. Mike 288-7458 
EXCHANGE: I HAVE 2 GA'S FOR PITT AND WILL EXCHANGE THEM FOR 2 TENN GA'S. CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 
MY LITTLE BROTHER AND FRIENDS WANT TO COME TO THE "NAvv·· GAME. NEED GA'SI CALL MARIA AT 284-5132 
I need 2 TN GAs.Will pay BIG$$. Call will at x3001. 
Need 4 PITT GA's. Can you help me out? X4419 
I need a student ticket or GA for Pitt-call Diane x2855 
HELP! I need Pitt tickets!!! Please call1321 
Need 6 Ten. and 6 USC GA's Will pay big bucks. #3718 
Have 2 Tenn GAs, want to trade for 2 Pitt GAs. CAll Shannon P. 272­8735. 
MANY PITT AND NAVY TICKETS NEEDED. RICH PARENTS WILL PAY BIG MONEY! 
CALL ERIC or JEFF @x3575 
NEED 2 PITT GA's or 2 NAVY GA's Call Karin at 233-8803 
Selling Pittsburgh student tickets. Luis: 273-1528 
Need USC GAs-277-6048 Tony 
NEED 2 PIT GA TIX so bad that it hurts Mike1655 
NEED PITT GA'S X2187 DAN 
NEED 6 TIX FOR PITT CALL TOM x3242 
NEEDED: 1 GA NAVY. CALL CHRISTINE AT 271-0053. 
DESPERATELY NEEDED!! 2 PITT GAS-PARENTS COMING IN FOR BIRTHDAY! CALL LAURA AT X2545 
I NEED USC TIX (STUD OR GA) CALL MIKE @ 277-9205 
I Have TENN GAs will Trade for PITT GAs call Paul 283-3863 
i need GAs for NAVY!! I Todd x1784 
Need 4 GAs tor Penn State! Please call AJ X1253 
Need Pitt G.A.'s call Karl x1765 
'HAVE TO HAVE 1 TN. X1959 
We need 1 USC and 1 Navy GA Call Chris or Pat @ 4657 
Help!! I need G.A.s to both Pitt and USC. Please call Andy @ 233-9588. 
WANTED: 2 TENN TICKETS PLEASE CALL EMILY AT 277-4861 
I need 2 GA's for NAVY. Pete x1791 
I just want somebody to love... and two NAVY GA'sl THink you can help? call 1371 ask for STEVE. WILL TOP 'ANY' PRICE! II NO KIDDING!!! 
I NEED TENN TIX BADLVI CALL MIKE AT 1103. 
HELP! TENNESSEE GA'S NEEDED Please call Sam Santo at (201)217-0030 (home) or 
(201) 992-8700 (work). 
WILL BUY USC AND TENNESSEE GA's FOR $100 A TICKET 2773097 
I need 2 USC tix 
Tom #3109 
I NEED USC,TENN,PITT,& NAVY 
GA TIXS.272-6306 
NEED 2 PITT GA'S CALL JOANNE X4899 
PITT GA'S FOR SALE CALL 1781; MAKE OFFER 
NEED 4 PITT GA'S AND 2 NAVY 
GA'S ... CALL288-7458 AND ASK 
FOR MATT OR ROB 
PLEASEII I NEED 2 NAVY GAS HEIDI-277-6806 
Relative have never seen 
CONDOMS IN ACTION! 
NEED 3 USC GA'S to have 
their DREAMS COME TRUE 
Call MIKE at X2360 

Rich alums need 10 A.F. g.a.'s. Will pay$$$. Call Gus or Mike at (206) 624-7990 
I desperately need 2 U.S.C student G.A's. Call Molli @ 3950. 
NEEDED: 1 OR 2 PITT GA's 
PLEASE CALL JOHN at x1590. 
Thanks! 
Need LOTS of GA's for Navy and 
USC Whitney X4304 
I need a Navy GA desperately 
Call Mike x4655 
NEEDED: 1 TENN. GA 
I HAVE PITT GAS TO 
TRADE OR $$-OR BOTH!I 
Call Matt at x2318. 
HELP! Alum needs 2 USC GAs 
Will pay $$-call Ivan @2037 
NEED 5 Pitt GA's Joe #2190 
I need: 2 Navy GAs Tenn. GAs call Greg 289-8917 
Help me be a little angel! My 
godmother needs a USC GA. Be 
my savior-X3484 
'#'#'Let's Make A Deal'#'# 
I need USC GA's more than you can imagine!! Call Liz at x2691 if you can help me out! 
Need 4 General Admission Tickets to Pitt and 2 tickets to USC. Call Marylou or Ray Cressy at 234­7553 (Day) or 234-3873 (Nile) 
NEED 2 GA FOR USC. LV. MSG 
FOR MK. 312/868-0119. 
2 Pitt GA's needed Please call 
x283-2831 
Need 2 USC GA's. This is 
SERIOUS! Calf Steve x2366 

NEED 2 TENN GAs-CALL DOC AT 2723001 
NEED PITT GA'S FOR POOR 
RELATIVES. CALL KEVIN 1589 
I NEED USC GAS 
CALL PHIL X2096 
I NEED 1 PITT TICKET I 
Please call x1963 student OR ga 
-AIR FORCE GA's Needed!! (At least 2) Please Calf­Catheeln @x 2822 
DESPERATELY NEED 3 ST. TIX FOR TENN. Call Kathy x3958 
Need Pitt GAs 
Call Jim 232-3296 
I need 2 or 3 Tenn. GA call Shawn X3256 
Need TENN & USC GA's Stan x1726 
NEED 2 PITT GAS SHARON 284-5146 
I NEED 1 PITT TICKET FOR A FRIEND! 
GREG 1742 
NEEDED: 2 TIX, STUD OR GA FOR TENN. CALL SUE AT 271­0053. 
I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S WILL SELL OR TRADE (PLUS $$$) FOR 2 TENN GA'S CALL MOE 3402 
Have 1 Pitt GA Leave Offer 
x2204 
Need 4 Pitt GAs! Monica (as in Eigelberger) 273-2202 
I need 2 Navy GAs. Call Kathy x4944 
I have Pitt GAs, need 2 GAs tor Tenn or USCI Roger at 273-1228. 

I need 4 GA's for the USC or Navy game. PLEASE! Call Amy at 284­5117. Thanx. 
Need Pitt Tlx X3543 
Need 2 GA's tor Navy and Tennessee. Calf Tlm at x1417. 

Need 2 GAs for Pitt, I for Tenn. for friends from MAINE! x2258 
PERSONAL 
What are ya doing? 
I am the Lizard King and I can do any1hing. 
$$$$ Need GA's to all home games. have extra Purdue tix. Call Tom x1563 
Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 
Happy 21st Birthday Brent "Bud Man· Prodica 
Monica Eigelberger is a ho. 

URGENT! Rich Alumnus needs 2 PITT TIX Kathleen @ x3726 x4132. 
I am the Lizard Child, and I've got an Oedipus complex that'll drive you wild. 

DOCTOR STAT, DOCTOR LOVE HAS FOUND A NEW VICTIM; BEN JEHRING HAS BEEN INFECTED BY A CALLIPYGIAN. 
WANTED: 3 TO 6 DEDICATED STUDENTS TO FILL THE TUES. 8-10PM, FRI. 6-SPM OR FRI. 10PM-12AM SHIFT FOR 
COUNSELINE. IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN PROVIDING THIS COMMUNITY SERVICE, CALL239-7336. 
Native offers Spanish classes 
Beatriz Call 272 97 13 
Are you driving to CHARLOTTESVL, VA!vicinity for break? If so, I need a ride! Sheri x2191 
CLUB 23 & VIC'S SUBS 
are now open from 11 amto3am 
The Only Alternative Live Music and Specials (7" Subs only $2 on Tuesdays) Phone : 234-4015 
WVF1640am PRESENTS 
THE CONNELLS with special guest 
7 Simons Where: Theodore's When: Thursday, Oct. 10 
9:00pm 
(doors open at 8:30) tickets on sale at Lafortune Into desk for $5.at door for$6. 
THE CONNELLS 
TICKET GIVE AWAY!! Win one pair of tickets to see The Connells, Thursday night, Oct. 10 at Theodore's. HOW? Listen to WVFI 640am 
Sunday thru Thursday. Its just that simple. 
Rob Romer, BEWARE!!!! He is coming !Ill HEEEE HAAAWIII 
SENIORS: If you're interested in good food and stimulating conversation then sign up for a Senior Rap Up group. Deadline is Friday, Oct. 11 at the CSC. 

Kristin Appelget-We loved the London pic, but are awaiting a new, "red" you. Write soon and bug nil about her dancefloor activity. The loveshak remains ... 
I need 2 GAs to Pitt! If you want to 
sell call X1253 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes 
every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00am. 
Eastern time. Train and jump the 
same day. Modern equipment and 
training programs. Licensed 
instructors. FFI call Skydive 
Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP 
MEETS TUESDAYS 7:30 P.M. 
FOR INFO: CALL 272-8890 
Irish Music & Dance @ Club 23 Every Tuesday In October SEAMAISIN 
SPRINGBREAK SAILING 
BAHAMAS 48ft. Luxury Yachts 
Groups of Six 
Seven Days Barefoot Sailing The 
Bahamas. As Low as $488.00 each 
Including Cabin and Meals. Call 
Any1ime. 
1-800-999-7245 (SAIL) 
"ATTN: NY AND NJ'' Ll Bus wNCR has seats avail. We'll also stop in NJ. Lv 10/19 rtn10/25 only $110. Reserve NOW! Joni 3793 Janice 2639 
SEE JEN SCHENHER'TONIGHT 
ON STUDS AT 10:30 ON FOX 
Farley's Finest, 
Y'all are the greatest. Keep 
up the gutsy play. We think y'all are 
champs. 
R, Oak, and Chez 
Don't bet with Sara Brann! 
She's a sore loser and needs 
to be put in her place. Any 
volunteers please call x4890. 
Saxes are stronly encouraged 
to participate. 
BALLROOM DANCE CLUB We will be going to Dan O'Day's Ballroom (instead of class) on Thursday, Oct. 10. We will meet at the MAIN CIRCLE at 8:15pm. Dress is semi-formal, and the cost is $3.00 per person. 
ONLY 3 DAYS UNTIL A 
BIRTHDAY! 
TO THE FUNKY GREEN TIE: Thanks for an awesome evening!! 
NEEDED: RIDE TO JERSEY FOR 
BREAK! HELP MEl X3384 
We do not play games! 
DON &DENNIS ARE THE KING 
SEXPOTS OF STANFORD HALL! 
4 PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED -call AMANDA X4956 
Need I TENN GA­-Melissa X4954 
Gutentag Beanerl 
Hope your German Is better than ours! The Knott Angels miss their DJ/Bartender/Sprinklerl 
Have fun! Love, CindyMelissaAmandaKelley KaraJulieChristlnaBethEileenAnne NicoleChlnettal 
Happy Belated Birthday Julie! 
Just think in 364 days, you will no longer need to hide upstairs in closets when the police raid! Love, Cyn and Meliss 
Are you going to Nirvana Saturday? I need a ride to Cabaret Metro, but I want to see the game, too. Call Ro at X1712 if you can drive me. HELP 
UIH $500 ... $1000 ... $1500 
!FO-OL] 
~~~r·:·J~ 
FU ..ID 
RAISING 
For your fraternity, aororlty, team 
or other c•mpu• org•nlz•tlon. Auowrtl.r110 IIMJTIIIfJ lfQUIIIDI CALL 1·800·950·8472, cxl. 50 

Tuesday, October 8 1991 

NHL STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  
AnT11'1'188 EDT  
WALES  CONFERENCE  BASEBALL  
Patrick Division  American  League  
New Jersey  w 2  L 0  T 0  Pis 4  GF tt  GA 4  Home t40  Away t40  Dlv 040  BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Signed John Oates, manager, to a two-year contract. Announced that AI  
Washlng1on  2  0  0  4  8  3  240  040  t40  Jackson, pitching coach, will not be retained and  
p.('( Rangers  2  1  0  4  7  7  t40  t-Hl  040  Curt Matton, first base coach, will be offered  
Plnaburgh  t  0  t  3  7  6  0-0-t  t40  0-0-t  another position in the organization.  
p.('( Islanders  t  0  0  2  4  3  040  t40  040  BOSTON RED SOX-Reinstated Danny Darwin,  
Philadelphia  0  t  t  1  4  7  040  0-1-t  0-t-1  Jeff Gray and Darryl Irvine, pitchers, from the 1!>­ 
Adams Division  day disabled list and Mike Miller, p~char, and Tlm  
Quebec  t  0  0  2  4  2  040  t40  t40  Naahrlng, shortstop, from the 60-day disabled list.  
Montreal  1  1  0  2  5  5  t-Hl  040  040  Waived Miller and Daw Owen, p~char, lor the  
Boston  t  2  0  2  9  9  1-1-0  0-t-0  040  purpose of an outrigth assignment to Pawtucket of  
Hartford  0  t  0  0  2  4  0-t-0  040  0-1-0  the International League.  
Buffalo  0  2  0  0  5  8  O-t-0  0-t-0  040  CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Announced that Don  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  Wakamatsu, catcher, and Rodney McCray,  
Norris Division  outllaldar, are !rea agents altar refusing  
Toronto  w L 2 t  T 0  Pis 4  GF t4  GA 9  Home 240  Away 0-t-0  Dlv 240  assignment to Vancouver ol the PacHic Coast League.  
Minnesota  1  0  0  2  4  2  140  040  140  KANSAS CllY ROYALS-Announced that Bob  
Detroit  0  t  1  1  8  11  040  0-1-1  0-1-1  Schaefer, dugout coach, and Tom Burgmeler,  
Chicago  0  2  1  1  7  11  0-1-1  0-1-0  0-1-1  banlng practice coach, have not bean retained for  
St. Louis  0  2  0  0  2  tO  040  0-2-0  0-1-0  next year. Retained Adrian Garren, third base  
Smy1he Division  coach; Lynn Jones, first base coach; Glenn Ezell,  
Vancouwr  2  0  0  4  9  5  140  140  2-0-0  bullpen coach; and Guy Hansen, pitching coach.  
Los Angeles  1  0  1  3  8  5  040  1-0-1  1-0-1  MINNESOTA TWINS-Signed Andy MacPhail,  
Calgary  1  1  0  2  12  7  1-0-0  0-t-0  1-1-0  executive vice president and vice president of  
Winnipeg  t  1  0  2  8  9  1-1-0  040  1-1-0  player personnel, to a three-year contract.  
Edmonton  0  t  1  1  4  11  0-0-1  0-t-0  0-1-1  NEW YORK YANKEES-Fired Stump Merrill,  
San Jose  0  2  0  0  5  9  0-1-0  0-1-0  0-2-0  manager.  
National League  
DOMER RUN RESULTS  FLORIDA MARLINS-Named John Young scout and Dan Lunena director of minor league  
administration.  
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Waived Tom Herr,  
Women's 3 mila Grad/Faculty/Staff MelliBaFIIer Staph Giggens  25:20 27:36  Women's 6 Mile Grad/Faculty/Staff Judy Sarth 35:t2 Dana Gllchrls  38:3t  second baseman, and Mike Kingery, outfielder. BouQht out the contract of Don Robinson, p~cher.  
Jenny Clasby  27:53  Danlella Mistela  45:26  

NFL STANDINGS  
All Times EDT  
AMERICAN  CONFERENCE  
East  
w  L  T  Pet  PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  Dlv  
Buffalo  5  t  0  833  168  t48  3-0-0  2-1-0  3-t-0  2-0-0  240  
Miami  3  3  0  .500  120  t22  240  t-3-0  2-2-0  1-1-0  2-2-0  
p.('(Jeta  3  3  0  .500  120  112  2-t-0  1-2-0  2-2-0  1-1-0  t-t-0  
N England  2  4  0  .333  66  t11  1-2-0  1-2.0  2-3-0  0-1-0  t-1-0  
lndnplls  0  6  0  000  43  134  0-3-0  0-3-0  0-!>-0  0-t-0  0-2.0  
Central  
Houston  4  1  0  .BOO  156  69  3-0-0  1-1-0  4-1-0  040  140  
Pnsburgh  3  2  0  .600  115  104  240  1-2-0  3-1-0  0-t-0  0-0-0  
Cleveland  2  3  0  .400  72  69  1-2-0  t-t-0  2-t-0  0-2-0  t-0-0  
Clncnnatl  0  5  0  .000  68  136  0-3-0  0.2-0  04-0  0-1-0  0-2-0  
Wf!lll.  
Denver  4  2  0  .667  t28  107  3-0-0  1-2-0  3-2-0  t-0-0  2-1-0  
Kan.City  4  2  0  .667  98  69  3-t-0  1-1-0  3-t-0  1-1-0  240  
LARaldrs  3  3  0  .500  9t  tOB  3-1-0  0-2-0  2-2-0  1-t-0  t-1-0  
Seattle  3  3  0  .500  t11  86  2-0-0  t-3-0  3-2-0  0-1-0  0-2-0  
San Diego  1  5  0  .t67  97  t27  0-2-0  1-3-0  t-3-0  0-2-0  t-2.0  
NATIONAL  CONFERENCE  
East  
w  L  T  Pet  PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  Dlv  
Washlngtn  6  0  0  1.000  189  65  3-0-0  3-0-0  t-0-0  !>-0-0  3-0-0  
Dallas  4  2  0  .667  1t5  t13  t-2-0  3-0-0  t40  3-2-0  2-2-0  
NYGiants  3  3  0  .500  95  93  3-t-0  0-2-0  t-0-0  2-3-0  1-1-0  
Phlla  3  3  0  .500  90  80  t-1-0  2-2-0  t-0-0  2-3-0  1-2-0  
Phoenix  3  3  0  .500  92  t05  1-1-0  2-2-0  t-0-0  2-3-0  1-3-0  
Central  
Detro~  5  t  0  .833  t28  t19  4-0-0  t-t-0  240 3-t-0  340  
Chicago  4  2  0  .667  97  t11  3-t-0  1-1.0  t-t-0  3-t.O  2-0-0  
Minnesota  2  4  0  333  69  106  1-1-0  t-3-0  0-1-0  2-3-0  0-2-0  
Graan Bay  1  5  0  .t67  83  115  1-2-0  0.3-0  0-t-0  1-4-0  t-1-0  
Tannpa Bay  t  5  0  .t67  73  1t3  1-2-0  0.3-0  0-2-0  t-3-0  0-3-0  
Wf!lll.  
NewOrlns  5  0  0  t.OOO  12t 47  3-Q.O  240  240  3-0-0  2-0-0  
Atlanta  2  3  0  .400  62  88  1-2-0  t-1-0  2-1.0  0-2-0  0-t.O  
LA Rams  2  3  0  .400  73  t09  t-t-0  1-2.0  0-0-0  2-3-0  0-2-0  
San Fran  2  3  0  .400  95  69  240  0-3-0  t-t-0  1-2-0  1-0-0  
Sunday'a  Gamea  
Dallas 20, Graan Bay 17  
Houston 42, Denver t4  
Mlani 20, New England tO  
Detroit 24, Minnesota 20  
New York Jets 17, Cleveland t4  
Tampa Bay t4, Philadelphia 13  
Seattle 13, Cincinnati 7  
Washington 20, Chicago 7  
New York Giants 20, Phoenix 9  

San Diego 2t, Los Angeles Aalders t3 Pittsburgh 2t, Indianapolis 3 OPEN DATE: Atlanta. Loa Angeles Rams, New Orleans. San Francisco Monday'• Game Kansas 33, Buffalo 6 
BASKETBALL National Baaketball Aaaociatlon ATLANTA HAWKS-Re-signed Gary Leonard, center, to a one-year contract. MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Signed Fred Roberts, forward, and Bobby Phllls, guard. 
Continental Baaketball Aaaociatlon ALBANY PATROONS-Signed Dennis WMakar, Byron Smith, and Carlos Sample, guards. GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Signed Canneron Bums, forward. 
TlJLSA ZONE-Named Doc Nunnally trainer. FOOTBALL National Football League 
SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-Signed Joe Prokop, punter. Waived Ra~ Mojslejanko, punter. Canadian Football League 
BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Named Greg Newhouse assistant defensive coach. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
SAN JOSE SHARKS-Recalled David Bruce, Ed Courtenay and Mikhail Kravats, forwards, from Kansas C~y of the International Hockey League. East Coast Hockey League 
TOLEDO STORM-signed Brad McCaughey, center-right wing. 

Undergraduate 

Undergraduate Kerry Hagan 26:09 Cynthia Chan 30:42 Kavalean Ryan 26:t4 Regina Hoagland 36:20 
Concerned About Campus Crime? 
Michelle Jennings 27:26 Peggy Keough 44:13 
Men's 3 nile 

Man's 6 nile Grad/Faculty/Staff Grad/Faculty/Staff Jeff Henke 22:59 Dave Kirkner 33:52 Jay Franco 24:09 Todd Johnson 36:39 
Have A Suggestion? 
Sean Conlan 25:22 Marak Szorskl 37:t5 
Undergraduate 

UndergraduateMike Shaahy 21:22 Joe Croniay 30:30 
Mka Arsenault 21:26 Chris Deasy 30:42 
Need Information? 
BHI Johnson 221l8 Anthony Stomena 3223 

TALK TO THE STUDENT TASK FORCE 

ON CRIME 
CAMPUS BADMINTON -MEN AND WOMEN UNDERGRADUATES GRADUATESTUDENTS FACULTY ANDSTAFF 
Greg Butrus(Chairman) Dave Cathcart 
VOLLEYBALL IHMEN 
Dave Certo 
IHWOMEN 
Maureen Connelly 
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
Jim Gordon 
BASKETBALL OFFICIALS MEETING 
Brian Murphy 
THURSDAY,OCT.lO 
)TUDE•NT 
Uflllllll 

Kristie Shafer 
6:00,. IN THE JACC AUDITORIUM 
ENTRY DEADLINE -OCTOBER 9 
283-2007 283-3217 283-1034 283-4716 289-6546 289-6546 283-2646 

~--------------------------------------------------------------­

Tuesday, October 8, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Cooper asserts that Graham will counter lllini's Verduzco 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -Ohio passes for 13 yards and, avoid­would be evaluated every day midst of the Heisman Trophy State eoach John Cooper said ing two would-be tackles in the "like all other positions are." race by completing 88 of 146 Monday he will be watching the backfield, spun around right But Graham said he didn't passes (60 percent) for 1,297 quarterback position closely end on a 32-yard scrambling feel like he had to prove himself yards and seven touchdowns every day at practice but still touchdown run. in practice each day. with only two interceptions. feels Kent (;raham is his starter. Joe Pickens, on his only "I try not to tl)ink of it that "He's more active than any 
"Graham's the guy. As I said series, set up Haymont Harris' way," Graham said, adding he other quarterback we've faced," the other day, nothing has 6-yard touchdown run by toss­did not want to worry about Cooper said. "The thing they try changed." f.ooper said before ing a 34-yard completion to somebody gaining on him in to do is have him drop so deep practice at the Woody Hayes Joey Galloway. practice. "That's the way I play (in the pocket). It's a good Athletic Cnntt1r. After the game, an agitated best. I try to approach it that scheme with him and not many 
In Saturday's 31-16 victory Cooper had said, "We'll let you way; whether or not I can do it, people get to him. You don't see over Wisconsin in the Big Ten know who's No.1 and No.2. that's another thing." him get sacked very often." opnner for both teams, Graham Period. Case dosed." The Buckeyes, ranked 11th Verduzco has been sacked started and played 3 1/2 quar­He then said he didn't want to this week, travel to No.20 four times all year, matching ters. lie completed 9 of 12 talk about the quarterback sit­Illinois for their first road game' the number of sacks against 
passes for 119 yards but was uation anymore. don't feel like there should be a of the season Saturday. While Graham by Wisconsin. • intercepted once and lost a Graham said Monday he controversy. Kirk got in and three quarterbacks looked good "He takes the biggest drop fumble. lie was sacked four doesn't see that there is a quar­then did a good job, and so did for Ohio State last weekend, one I've ever seen in my life." limns for 36 yards in losses. terback controversy. Joe. But ultimately it's up to the has been outstanding all year Graham said. "Guys (defensive Still, he left with a 17-2 lead. "I'm confident in what I'm coaches .and I'm going to let for the Illini. linemen) are probably dying by Kirk Jlnrbstreit came on and doing out there," he said. "I them make the decision." Jason Verduzco, a 5-foot-9 the time they get to him. It's a in one series complet11d 1 of 3 think I played well Saturday. I Cooper said the quarterbacks junior, has jumped into the 30-yard sprint, probably." 

HowAmerican Expresshelps you cover more territory.For less money. 
leave. And the maximum stay is 7days/6 nights and must include
Become aStudent Cardmember today and a Saturday night. get 3roundtrips on Continental Airlines, By becoming aStudent Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other 
benefits from the American Express• Student Privileges· Program.for only $129 or $189 each. Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month 
for an entireJear-absolutely free. And that's just one example of 
Only the American Express• Card offers an exciting travel program how the Car can help you save. 
exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on For just $55 ayear, the Card gives you all these savings. And 
Continental Airlines. And much, much more. it's easy to apply. Just call us (have your bank address and account 
just look at the map and pick the place youd like to visit. If number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it's 
it's on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use acertificate easier to get the Card now while you're still in school than it may 
to fly for only $129• roundtrip. Or you can cross the 
ever be again. 
Mississippi for $189 roundtrip. So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terri­
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide. 48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime­•Minneapolis/St. Paul, St. LoUis and New Orleans art' considertd ciries east olrhe Mississippi River. because there are no blackout dates. But you must ••Acredit of up ro S3.70 for calls will appear on each billing sraremt-nt for 12 months aher enroll ment. 13.70 is equal w the charges for adomeslic 30·minure night/weekend Mel card Compali·make your reservations within 14 days of the day you bilily call and appropriare surcharges. You must enroll for this se-rvia by lkcml~r 31, 1991. 
CALL 1-800-942-AMEX 

Continental
Mc1 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. 

-~-­

page 16 The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
SPORlSSHORTS 


Messier serves up New York victory Toronto backed by former Oiler Fuhr in shutout of Blues 
NEW YORK (AP) -Mark Messier celebrated his first home game at Madison Square Garden by setting up both New York goals, including Mike Gartner's game-winner 31 seconds into overtime that gave the Rangers a 2-1 victory over the Boston Bruins on Monday night. 
Messier, who helped lead Edmonton to five Stanley Cups, was acquired from the Oilers on Friday. Since his arrival, the Rangers have won a pair of 2-1 decisions, both in overtime, with Messier assisting on three of the four goals. 
Messier set up Gartner in the slot with a cross-ice pass from the right boards and the veteran right wing, a 49-goal scorer last season, snapped the puck past Matt DelGuidice, spoiling the rookie's first NHL start. 
DelGuidice, whose only previous NHL action was 10 scoreless minutes in relief against Montreal last Jan. 31, 
Valpo 
continued from page 20 
--
Brown said. "But the great teams come in and play well no matter who's on the other side of the net. They didn't let up on us at all, and that's something we need to do ourselves. "However, I don't think we're light years behind them. We have players who are very ca­pable of playing with them." In the third-place match, Notre Dame jumped on top early, downing San Jose State 15-5 in the first game, only to let the Spartans grab the mo­mentum back in the next two games, 15-9 and 15-12. The Irish hung tough, how­ever, tying the match at two games apiece with a 15-5 vic­tory in the fourth game. But in the fifth and deciding game, San Jose rose to the occasion, knocking off Notre Dame 15-11 in a hard-fought battle. "Maybe they were a little more determined, a little hun­grier for a win," Brown said. "That match was disappointing 
made 38 saves as the Rangers outshot Boston 40-23 in avenging a 5-3 loss to the Bruins on opening night. 
Messier's first home appearance as a Ranger was greeted by thunderous applause from the crowd of 17,542 as he took the ice with stick held high in pre-game ceremonies honoring New York's former team captains. The crowd cheered again when he was introduced as the Rangers' new captain. 
Maple Leafs 3, Blues 0 
TORONTO -Newly acquired Grant Fuhr made 33 saves for his lOth career shutout as the rebuilt Toronto Maple Leafs beat the struggling St. Louis Blues 3-0 on Monday night. 
The victory, Toronto's second in three games this season, boosted the Leafs into first place in the Norris Division. 
because we had opportunities to win, and I really feel like we should have won. We just didn't maintain focus and finish them off after we got them down." 
So now the Irish tangle with the Crusaders having lost three straight matches and four of their last five. But Valparaiso presents the perfect opportu­nity for them to get back on the winning track. 
"We're definitely the stronger team, but we're going to need a good team effort," said Brown. "Valpo's going to come in fired up, and we're going to have to come in fired up as well." 
The Crusaders are led by two Mishawaka natives, senior Lori Barton at middle blocker and freshman setter Kristy Gates, as well as senior setter Chris Solzman. However, Valparaiso. is very small across the front line-only one player on the roster stands over six feet tall. 
In the all-time series, Notre Dame has dominated, holding a 9-2 edge and not suffering a defeat to Valparaiso since 1980--the first year at the var­sity level for the Irish. 
Major League Baseball sets record 
•Baseball set an attendance record for the fifth time in six years, drawing 56,880,512 fans this season, an increase of 3.3 percent, according to unofficial figures released Monday. The American League drew a record 32,148,198 fans, an increase of 6 percent from last year's 30,332,260. The AL was led by Toronto, which drew 4,001,526 to the SkyDome, a single-season record for any team. The Blue Jays averaged 49,402 per game. The National League drew 24,740,320, a 1 percent increase from last year's 24,491,508 and its second-highest total ever. The NL record o 25,323,834 was set in 1989. In addition to Toronto, seven other clubs set records, including the White Sox. Chicago moved into the new Comiskey Park and was second in attendance at 2,969,176, an average of 37,115. Also setting records were the Boston Red Sox (2,562,435), the Baltimore Orioles (2,552,261), the Texas Rangers (2,297,718), the Seattle Mariners (2,147,905), the Atlanta Braves (2,140,217) and the Pittsburgh Pirates (2,065,302). 
Scouts chosen for Colorado Rockies 
•DENVER -Members of the scouting staffs for the Montreal Expos and the Atlanta Braves were named Monday to head the scouting division of the Colorado Rockies. 
Pat Daugherty, 56, currently the Florida scouting supervisor for the Expos, was named the Rockies director of scouting by John McHale, the National League expansion team's executive vice president of baseball operations. McHale also named Paul Egins, 27, as the assistant director of scouting. Egins is currently the assistant director of player development with the Atlanta Braves. "We are delighted and very pleased that Pat will be joining the Rockies organization," McHale said. McHale cited Daugherty's "extensive and valuable background in one of the finest player development operations in baseball" as the main reason for his selection. Daugherty has served in the Expos organization since 1972. He has been a coach and manager in the minor leagues, as well as serving in the scouting department. Egins has been with the Braves organization since 1988, and was named to his current position before the 1990 season. McHale said· Egins experience in 
Last season, the Leafs had to play 13 games before winning their second, on Oct. 30. 
St. Louis, outscored 10-2 in losing its first two games, outshot Toronto 33-17 but couldn't beat Fuhr. He turned aside 16 shots in the second period alone, including six by Brett Hull. 

nil' ~il>h:!i'f.tlt, 1111-'-'•il!~~fi'...., t:.J:<:-fmOJs OJii~H;:L *'" ii~WJI:IH'7·> t ~:··}.,~t1f.i \•!l.:-;:tJT~ \'o h /tJL-f/llltiH'~ i 1tA.m:· t&'l:·JiH~\'o rti, nil'il>MtiiiiilrJ~Il'6J~llft IH':·!tH-fH, :·ifiH~ ~llnll\•ltLH" 
• H±M: IJ 30~1£tOJiii~IJiilill. n,wmElliili~:t-r OJiili~HJUJrLH, 
the National League Western Division and the Braves success with home-grown talent, especially pitchers, were key factors in his selection. 
&Co. 


YOU OIOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FOIST CLASS HAIRCU'I? 
Haircut and Shampoo Reg. student cut $11.00 ·Brio& In a friend and ftCdve your ,.......,.~.;.~~~ cuts for $9.00 each. MINUfES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 277-1691 S4S33 Terrace Lane 
Closed on Mondays 

Tuesday, October 8, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Auburn coaches implicated by player's tape recordings 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) ­Secretly recorded tapes made by former Auburn football player Eric Ramsey show that coaches and alumni gave him money to help purchase a car, provided a monthly stipend and promised him a bonus for interceptions, Ramsey's attorney said Monday. 
Donald Watkins of Birmingham said he has nearly finished listening to the tapes made by Ramsey, who has leveled serious accusations against the Auburn football program. 
The NCAA has launched a preliminary Investigation and Auburn has hired a lawyer to conduct an internal probe. Both the school and the NCAA say they are prohibited from commenting on the case. 
But Watkins said that 35 to 40 conversations taped by Hamsey and still has four more tapes to play before he begins making preparations to release the tapes to the media. 
In a telephone interview Monday, Watkins gave a glimpse of what he says the tapes and Ramsey's financial records will reveal when they are made public. 
He said coaches and alumni provided Ramsey with about $1,200 to help purchase a car, a $300 monthly stipend, $300 to pay a car note one month, $200 for another loan payment, and $200 for an automobile insurance payment. 
Ramsey was always paid in person and always in cash, ac­cording to his attorney. 
On one tape, Watkins said, the person who was making the payment joked that he did not want to send it via Federal Express, presumably a refer­ence to an episode in which a Kentucky assistant basketball coach allegedly mailed cash to a recruit and it was opened en route. 
"That was a private joke be­tween them," Watkins said. "That gives you a general idea of the kinds of things that were going on." 
Watkins would not say how much Ramsey allegedly was promised for each interception. "I think I'll save that," the attorney said. 
St. Edward•s Hall Players Organizational Meeting Thursday, Oct. 1Oth, 7:00PM 1st Floor Lounge (St. Ed•s) 
* We are especially looking for people for Assistant Director, 
Stage Manager, Props +Set Construction 

Graduate Nurses... 
What are you looking for in a nursing career? 
I!!'Strong encouragement and support for your goals li!'Thorough orientation, geared to your own education and experience !!'!" Membership on one of the world's most respected medical teams !!'!"Patient and family oriented practice ItOn-site and off site continuing education l!f'World-class challenges I!'!"The possibility to grow whether in clinical practice, management, research or education !!'!"Flexible scheduling rif Competitive salary & benefits ~Progressive technology i!l'Diverse range of clinical specialities 
What are you lookingfor in a place to live? 
!!'!"A beautiful midwestern city of 70,000 ~A community of professionals ~!!'Recreational and cultural opportunities for aII seasons l!l'Cosmopolitan atmosphere in an internationally known medical center 
Look into Mayo Medical Center, Rochester, Minnesota For information: 
Mayo Medical Center, Nursing Recruitment, P.O. Box 6057, Rochester, MN 55903-6057 1-800-247-8590 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equalopportunity educator and employer 
Baseball's Leo Durocher dies 
"The Lip" remembered for his aggressive management 
PALM SPRING, Calif. (AP) ­Leo Durocher, a fiesty and con­troversial manager for nearly a half-century and the man who coined the phrase "nice guys finish last," died Monday. He was 86. 
He died at 1:20 p.m. PDT at Desert Hospital of natural causes, hospital spokesman Randy Bevilacqua said. 
Durocher played for 17 sea­sons, almost all as a shortstop, with the Brooklyn Dodgers, Cincinnati Heds, St. Louis Cardinals and New York Yankees, the team he broke into baseball with in 1925. 
Yet it was his fiery style as a manager that drew "The Lip" his greatest attention. He re­ceived his share of fines and suspensions during his man­agerial career, which included stints with the Brooklyn Dodgers, the team he started with in 1939; the New York Giants, the Chicago Cubs and the Houston Astros. whom he 
SPDRlSBRIEFS 
finished with in 1973. 
He guided three teams into the World Series -the 1941 Dodgers, who lost to the Yankees; the 1951 Giants, who lost to the Yankees; and the 1954 Giants. who swept the Cleveland Indians. 
And the man who talked about nice guys finishing last did wind up in the cellar once, with the 1966 Chicago Cubs, who went 59-103. But the next season, his second with the Cubs, they improved to 87-7 4. 
At various times in between, he worked as a coach for the Los Angeles Dodgers and an announcer for NBC-TV. After leaving the Astros at age 68, he retired to Palm Springs. He continued to appear at baseball functions and remained active on the Hollywood and sociiJ-1 circuit, spending time with the many who knew him, including one of his best friends, enter­tainer Frank Sinatra. 
Leo Ernest Durocher was 
born on July 27, 1905, in West Springfield, Mass. He made it to the majors in 1925 and played just two games with the Yankees, a team that featured Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig. He did not play again for the Bronx Bombers until 1928, then went to the Reds in 1930, the Cardinals in 1933 and to the Dodgers in 1938. 
Durocher was hired as man­ager of the Dodgers before the 1939 season and played 116 games that year while also managing. He was also a player-manager, although in a limited role, in 1941, 1943 and 1945, his last active season. 
He ended his career with a .247 batting average, 24 home runs and 56 7 HBis. His Dodgers of 1939 finished third in the NL. The next season, they improved to second. And, in 1941, they won the pennant before falling to the Yankees. 
•Notre 
Dame Rowing Club: Attention varsity rowers, There will be an important meeting concerning fall break on Thursday. October 10 at 7:00·p.m. in 118 Nieuwland. Van assignments and the trip cost will be given. 

•The 
YMCA-South Bend table tennis club is announeing its winter league. Anyone intersted in forming a three-man team from Notre Dame, to compete for $700 in prizes, call Brad at 654­8345. 

•SMCVarslty 
track meeting for all interested participants will be Wednesday, October 9 at 8 


p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
•WVFI 
Sportstalk welcomes Ryan Mihalko to the show tonight from 8-9 p.m. Tune into 640 AM or call 239-6400 to share your views· on the Stanford win and the upcoming Pitt game .. 

•Attention 
all novice members of the rowing club. There is a mandatory meeting to be held in the lower level of Nieuwland at 7:30 tonight. Dues $30 will be collected and insurance forms should be in, 



• 

~~-~-~===-­
t\ORfftU c'fnT~tR cfOR Tttt eft R T s 
Oct. 11-Nov. 8  Thurs. Nov. 7  
Moreau Galleries  Little Theatre  
Dianne Reeves  Saint Mary's  
Handmade Paper  Women's Choir  
Susan Messer,  Fall Concert  
Drawings  Admission Free  
Admission Free  
Nov. 14-17  Fri. Nov. 23  
O'Laughlin Auditorium  Little Theatre  
Saint Mary's Theatre  Jonathan Frid's  
Hansel and Gretel:  Shakespearean  
An Old Tale Newly Told  Odyssey  
Saint Mary's  Saint Mary's  
student tickets: $3  student tickets: $3  

Tickets for all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Visa/MasterCard orders at 284-4626. 
----·t%t-­Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME" INDIANA 

• 

•ND 
Cricket Club will be practicing every Sunday from 6-7 p.m. at Loftus. Call Marko at 283-3587 or Tim at 283-1473. 

•The 
ND Rugby Team (6·1) won the Chicago Area Rugby Football Tournament this Saturday. The Irish defeated Kellogg II 4 7-0. U of Illinois Chicago 22-6, and Kellogg I 27-0 in the championship. The Rugby team takos on the Kalamazoo Men's club this Saturday. 

•ND/SMC 
women's field hockey will have it's first meeting tomorrow at 8 p.m. in 211 Walsh. For more info call Suzanne 283-2687 or Joanie 277-5221. 

•RecSports 
meeting: A meeting will be held for all captains t'or men's interhall volleyball on October 10 at 4 p.m., womens interhall volleyball at 4:30p.m.• co-ree basketball at 5 p.m., refs for basketball at 5:30 p.m. All these meetings will be in the football auditorium. 


•Walk-on tryouts for the NO baskteball team will be held onTuesday,October 15 from 7 to 9 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. All are welcome. 

Steinbrenner will serve as alternate for Atlanta group 
ATLANTA (AP) -The U.S. Olympic Committee has recommended New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner as an alternate on Atlanta's 1996 Summer Olympics Committee. 
Steinbrenner lost his seat on the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games Oct. 1 when Hobert M. Helmick resigned his post as USOC president, ACOG lawyers said. He had been named to the board by Helmick. 
Helmick had combined two permanent positions on the ACOG board, serving both as USOC president and as an International Olympic Committee member. Helmick retains his ACOG seat by virtue of his IOC membership. 
But Steinbrenner lost his seat to make room for interim USOC President William J. Hybl, who is required to be on the board by ACOG bylaws. 
A letter from Hybl to Steinbrenner said the appointment was "agreeable to our friends in Atlanta," according to a statement issued Monday by the USOC in 
• 
Colorado Springs, Colo. 
page 18 The Observer Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
Missouri coach restates inadequacy of NCAA investigation 
COLUMBIA, Mo. (AP) -of that." Stewart also renews a call for NCAA rules for about a year. Missouri basketball coach Norm Missouri's basketball program the NCAA to adopt due process The panel is expected to make Stewart maintains the NCAA's was penalized by the NCAA last for its investigations similar to its recommendations in investigative process is "in year for violations including those in the legal system. November, he said. drastic need of reform." using an improper recruiting "As it stands, the NCAA puts "There was an opportunity for 
In his new book, "Stormin' agent in Detroit, scholarship too much of a burden on the him to present his ideas," 
· Back," Stewart also decries the payments to an ineligible player coaches to prove their inno­Cawood said. influence of university adminis­and small cash payments to· cence," he writes. "If we are However, Stewart told re· trators on the NCAA. He writes several players. members of their group, porters he decided not to attend that athletic directors. coaches It was the first time in school shouldn't they be trying to find the NCAA rules hearing in and others in college athletics history that a Missouri athletic us innocent?" Washington because he would "are left out of the decision­program received NCAA sanc­Dave Cawood, an NCAA have had to travel at his own making process" by the organi· tions -two years probation, a spokesman, said it was "a expense -something th~j.t was zation. ban from the NCAA tournament compliment to the NCAA" for unappealing to him because he Stewart, entering his 25th and limits on basketball schol­Stewart to acknowledge that had just refinanced his home season at Missouri, unveiled the arships. the chief executive officers of mortgage. He didn't elaborate. book on Monday during a news Stewart said a survey of the rules, the players even colleges and universities run Asked how much money he conference at his home. coaches he conducted for the less," he writes. "The annual the organization. hoped to make from the $19.95 "It's not a book where we're book indicated many nf his col­NCAA convention is in the mid­"It shows that education book, Stewart gestured toward trying to bash anyone," Stewart leagues share his resentment dle of basketball season, and should be foremost in what the trays of complimentary snacks said. "I think it's a healthy toward the NCAA. the school presidents and ad­NCAA is all about," Cawood and wine and said, "I hope to criticism ... it's just my side." He sent questionnaires to 72 ministrators run the show. said. make enough to pay for the Asked whether his criticism of coaches, and 34 responded, "In the survey, it was unani­As for Stewart's calls for due drinks and food you have." the NCAA qualified as bashing, Stewart said. Texts of the ques­mous, 34-0, that coaches process, Cawood said the Stewart, 56, also offers a de­Stewart said, "comparatively, I tions are not included in the wanted more coaches and play­Missouri coach didn't appear tailed account of his fight with did nothing -compared to book. ers to participate in the NCAA before an independent commis­cancer, from the time he was their bashing. I took two years ""The coaches have little .say in rulesmaking process." sion that has been studying stricken on a 1989 team flight. 

Kansas City shuts down Kelly, slaughters Buffalo 33-6 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP}­Kansas City's defense gave Buffalo's no-huddle offense no hope. 
The Bills, averaging more than 32 points and 450 yards in winning their first five games in defense of their AFC champi­onship, suffered six quarter­back sacks. five lost fumbles and their most lopsided defeat in four years Monday night as the Chiefs romped to a 33-6 victory. 
Christian Okoye, following two Buffalo turnovers, scored two touchdowns two minutes apart as the Chiefs took com­plete control in the third quar­ter. 
The Bills, who haven't been held without a TO since Dec. 4, 1988, suffered their worst de­feat since a 47-6 loss to Indianapolis by replacement players during the 1987 strike. Derrick Thomas had four of the Chiefs' sacks, with two of them causing fumbles. 
Okoye ran for 130 yards, set­ting a Chiefs record with his 13th 100-yard game, and rookie Harvey Williams rushed for 103. 
The Bills, held to 210 total yards, still were in the game when Thurman Thomas took a pass from Jim Kelly deep in Buffalo territory and was im­mediately hit by Lonnie Marts, who knocked the ball loose for Kevin Ross to scoop up and run 13 yards to the Buffalo 17. 
Steve DeBerg hit Robb Thomas for 12 yards to the 5, then Okoye we~ over on the next play for a 23-6 lead with 
2:52 left in the third quarter. A moment later, Thomas sacked Kelly, knocking the ball loose, and Dan Saleaumua recovered on the 11. On fourth and goal from the 2, Okoye knocked a defender backward into the end zone. 
A fumble by Don Beebe on the ensuing kickoff led to Nick Lowery's 22-yard field goal. Lowery also kicked a 41-yarder in the first quarter, a 40-yarder in the second and a 24-yarder in the third. 
Thomas, the Bills' leading 
rusher, left the game late in the quarter with an apparent ankle injury. 
Adding to their miseries, even the officiating went against the Bills. Officials placed the ball 5 yards away from where they should have after replay offi­cials overturned a Buffalo pass completion in the third period. 
DeBerg, after faking to Okoye, hit Pete Holohan with a 1-yard touchdown pass on the second play of the second quarter. 
The Chiefs sacked Kelly four times in the first half and har­rassed him on almost every passing down. 
Buffalo got a 44-yard field goal in the second quarter from Scott Norwood and then a 25­yarder after wasting a first down on the Chiefs 11 after Okoye fumbled into the arms of Buffalo's Leonard Smith on the Chiefs 34. 
A roughing-the-passer call against Bill Maas two plays later moved the Bills 11 yards to the 11, but the Chiefs' de­fense, which came into the game allowing an AFC-low 12 points per game, refused to yield. On second and three from the four, Maas recorded the Chiefs' third sack, downing Kelly on the 12. 
Kelly was pressured on the next play and had to dump the ball off to Thomas as the Bills settled for a 25-yard field goal. 
HEY FIGHTING IRISH 
Look Who's Got The 
Best Deals On Campus!  
STUDENT SPECIAL!  
LARGEONE TOPPING  $699  
PIZZA  SECOND PIZZA $41VIORE!  ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS AVAILABLE  
LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED.  
Valid at participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Delivery area limited to ensure safe drivmg. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.  
SUNDAY DOUBLE FEATURE  
TWO SMALL Man cannot live by football alone. PEPPERONI  $599  
Call Domino's Pizza: NOTRE DAME  ST. MARY'S  PIZZAS OFFER VALID SUNDAY ONLY.  ADDITIONAL TOPPINGS AVAILABLE  
271-0300  289-0033  LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. Valid~ participatin~ stores only. Not valid with any other offer. belivery area limited to ensure safe dnvmg. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.  

1835 South Bend Ave. 816 Portage Ave. 
Tuesday, October 8, 1991 The Observer page 19 
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
•



BILL WATTERSON 

f.-'S RtW.lD P~S,\OOJ\'( Fa~ S\\OW A~'l> 'llll 
IrS QIJ\IE HITCI\V£,
l BRP\Jl\-\T O~E. or M'(
8 ~ 
~ 1\\ ~R~G£.
OMt-l P.A.IE.t{\ PE~Dil"G 1~\J£1{1\~S! 
• 
"Don't worry, Jimmy-they're just actors ... and that's not real ketchup." 
CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
TUesday 
7 p.m. Presentation/Reception for all students interested In discovering career opportunities with Merck and Company. All are invited and encouraged to attend. Located in the Upper Lounge of the University Club. 
7 p.m. Film, Women in Hollywood Series-"And God Created Women," Introduction and discussion led by Hilary Radner will follow. Annenberg Auditorium. 
Edltor•s Note: 
..
The Observer has decided to start 
running the new Collegiate Cross­9:15pm. Film, "Stage Coach." Annenberg Auditorium. word puzzle. instead of the New York Times Crossword puzzle. This is on a trial basis and will continue LECTURES until the end of the Fall Semester. The answers to today's puzzle will be found somewhere in the rest of the 
Tuesday
paper. 
12:15 p.m. Lecture, "An Insider's View of the August Coup and ... Its Impact on Indiana-Soviet Trade Relations," Peter Prostayakow, Director of the Institute for Information and Socio-Economic Research. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. 
12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "In Search of a New Identity: Dictatorship, Democracy, and the Evolution of the Left In Chile and Peru," Kenneth Roberts. Room C103, Hesburgh Center for\Q Edward Julius Collegiate CW8703 International Studies. 
37 Pelted wfth rocks 3 Mimicking 35 Certafn votes
ACROSS 4 German name for 4:15 p.m. Lecture, "The Odd Couple, O'Hara and Gurian:
38-Zone 37 Sault ­
1 Actor Everett, 39 D.D.S.'s field the Danube 39 letter opener Academic Notre Dame in the 1930's," Robert Burns. Lounge, et al. 42 Yoko-5 Take li9htly 40 Pepsin and ptyalfn Hesburgh Library. 
6 Finishes a cake 43 Mortgage bearer (2 wds.) 41 Pince-­10 Pete Weber's 45 Memo 6 Sudden urge 44 More infuriated 
organization 47 Gaudy exhibition 7 Magic flyers 46 Hiss Arden 4:30 p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar, "Frog Brain as a Source 
13 Attach, as a bow 53 Home for birds 8 Political refugee 48 Change the Con-
of Novel Neuropeptides." J. Michael Conlon, Professor of 
tie (2 wds.) 55 Charlotte -9 Healthy: Sp. stitution 
Biochemistry, Creighton University School of Medicine. Room 283,
14 "I Remember -" 56 Thin limb 10 Cleveland, e.g. 49 Cup for cafe au lait 
Auditorium, Galvin Ufe Science Center. 
15 Keyboard maneuver 58 Pine extracts 11 Work in a 50 Foreigner 16 Gulch 59 German pronoun restaurant 51 Element 130 (pl.) 17 -phone 60 -majesty 12 Reply (abbr.) 52 Piquancy 19 Amphitheatres: lat. 61 Entomologist's 13 Rocky cliff 54 Spanish for island 20 Ascends specimen 18 That: Fr. 56 Slangy photos MENU 21 low-mpg car (2 wds) 62 Greek letters 22 Sharp turn 57 Here: Fr. 23 Pinball machine 63 Part of B.A. 24 Potential base hit 

word 64 Barbara and 25 A Roosevelt 
Notre Dame 
26-parade Anthony 27 French menu item 28 Vegas cube 29 City in Georgia 29 Gu~ substances 30 Astro~ preffx
DOWN

34 In an unstable 31 War memorials Batter Fried Fish posftfon (2 wds.) 1 Bow or Barton 32 Pfg -.-poke 
Roast Turkey 
36 Negative verb form 2 Itchy skfn con­
33 Take ft very easy 
Fettucl tl Alfredo
(2 wds.) dition 
Sports 
page 20 Tuesday, October 8, 1991 
Irish volleyball awaits arrival of attacking Crusaders 
"We're definitely the stronger
By RENE FERRAN 
team, but we're going to need a
Associate Sports Editor 
good team effort," said Brown. "Valpo's going to come in firedAfter two straight disappoint­up, and we're going to have to
ing weekend tournament fin­
come in fired up as well."
ishes. the Notre Dame volleyball The Crusaders are led by two
team (7 -6) hosts Valparaiso 
Mishawaka natives, senior Lori
tonight at 6 p.m. looking for Barton at middle blocker andsome momentum going into its freshman setter Kristy Gates, asversion of October break. 
well as senior setter Chris
The Irish get the next 10 days Solzman. However, Valparaisooff after tonight's match. but · is very small across the frontfirst, they must recover from a 
line-only one player on the
second consecutive fourth-place roster stands over six feet tall. 
result-this time at the Stanford In the all-time series, NotreInvitational. 
Dame has dominated, holding a
On Thursday, Notre Dame 9-2 edge and not suffering awent up against top-ranked defeat to Valparaiso since
Stanford in the first round, and 1980-the first year at the var­
the Cardinal lived up to their sity level for the Irish. 
lofty ranking, blasting the Irish 
Brown was impressed with
into the consolation round 15-7, Stanford's concentration during15-1, 15-8. 
their match with the Irish. 
So now the Irish tangle with 
"A lot of people-myself in­
the Crusaders having lost three 
cluded-thought that Stanfordstraight matches and four of 
might look past us and not playtheir last five. But Valparaiso 
as sharp, not be quite as fo­
presents the perfect opportunity 
cused," Irish coach Debbie
for them to get back on the winning track. see VALPO/page 16 

U.S. volleyball battles Japan in Olympic preview at JACC 
By RENE FERRAN to clinch a berth in the eight­Debbie Brown. "If you've only large role in preparing for the getting tonight's match Associate Sports Editor team field when it finished seen world-class volleyball on World Cup. scheduled in the Joyce ACC. second to Cuba at the recently television, you'll be surprised at "Japan is traditionally one of "Since I know the people who 
The United States' drive completed NORCECA Zone how hard they hit the ball-the the top teams in Asia, and this set up the tour, they asked if we toward a berth in the Olympic Championship in Regina, power on display will be team is no different. Since we would be interested in hosting a women's volleyball tournament Saskatchewan. impressive." have (these) matches scheduled match," Brown said. "So I went rolls through Notre Dame. In order for the U.S. to make The U.S. team is currently with them in such a short to the administration and asked 
In what could be a preview the Olympics, it must finish ranked third in the world by period of time, it should be about it, and they were really
• for next year's excitement in · higher than any of the other virtue of its bronze medalist interesting to see how both excited about the opportunity. Barcelona, the U.S. and Japan non-Olympic qualifying squads showing at the 1990 World team's strategies will vary." "You can compare this tour to meet in the third of a five­at the World Cup. Besides Cuba, Championships, but its upset The two teams have split the one of an all-star team of NBA match tour of the Midwest the Soviet Union (1988 gold loss to the Cubans in Regina first two matches in the series. players coming to South Bend. 
tonight after the conclusion of medalists at Seoul), China only heightens the importance The Japanese knocked off the These are the best volleyballthe Notre Dame-Valparaiso (runners-up at the world of the World Cup tournament to Americans in five games on players in the country, and our match. championships), Japan (Asian be held November 8-17, and opening night in Kansas City, country is one of the best in the The tour is a tune-up for next zone champions) and Spain hence, this tour. Mo. The U.S. rebounded the world-and Japan is very goodmonth's World Cup tournament (host country} already have "We were disappointed that next night, however, sweeping too." in Japan which will be the earned a bid to Barcelona. we were unable to earn our the recently crowned Asian Americans' last chance to "It's going to be some of the Olympic spot at (Regina)," said champions in DeKalb, Ill. Tickets are on sale at the ACC qualify for the 1992 Olympics to best volleyball people in this USA coach Terry Liskevych. Brown, a former player and box office for $6 for adults and be held in Barcelona, Spain. area will have an opportunity to "We feel that we belong (in the coach of the national squad, $4 for students and youth under The U.S. missed an opportunity see in person," said Irish coach Olympics), and this tour plays a played an important rol~ in 16. 


Jordan hurts only himself when he ignores the wishes of his teammates 
A disturbing trend has re­player ... but if one guy wants to isolate himself cently developed among the like that, we're not going to win (another} superstars of team sports. championship. 
For instance, Oakland Ns "I had an appearance scheduled (that day} outfielder Jose Canseco has and someone in the Bulls' organization can­been outspoken about his celled it for me. They could have done that for dislike for the city of Oakland him. He's a spectacular player, probably the and its fans, and has publicly best in the league, but I'm not going to sit here asked to be traded. He claims and let him destroy the team like that." that he would be even more Now, it goes without saying that Jordan, like of a superstar if he didn't ------­Canseco, is an outstanding player, and should have to play half his games in Oakland be treated as such. It's simply when they hold Coliseum. themselves as higher than their teammates, and 
His manager, Tony LaRussa, responded, forget that there is no "I" in team, that is "Anybody who wants to leave-you're better off troublesome. without them." Jordan claims that the whole ordeal is being 
But this could be passed off as a case of Jose blown out of proportion, but when you are the being Jose. A more blatant-and surprising­star player of the world's champions, the littlest example came this past week when Chicago thing means a lot-especially to the media, and Bulls' guard Michael Jordan did not join the as a result, his public. Of all people, a superstar team at the White House to celebrate their like Jordan should realize this. recent NBA championship with President Bush. Further, how quickly he forgets the Bulls' 
When asked about his absence, Jordan frustrations year after year in the playoffs for became indignant, claiming that it was nobody's lack of a supporting cast around Jordan's business and that if he didn't want to be with talents. And now that the team surrounding him the team in Washington, that was his has the ability to take the Bulls to the finals, he prerogative. threatens to destroy them with an act of 
"One time I choose to do something for myself selfishness. and I get criticized for it," he was quoted as If this was a case of Jordan backing out of an saying in Friday's Chicago Tribune. "It wasn't individual activity-a card show, an appearance my intention to disrespect anyone, but I've met on behalf of the team-that's one thing. But George Bush before. I don't think he was when Jordan effectively shows up his different from the last time I met him." teammates by not joining in a team event and 
But forward Horace Grant hit the nail on the then claims special immunity, Grant's head when he spoke out during the Bulls' media indignation is clearly justified. day about the double standard employed for Jordan contends, "I've always wanted Jordan. everyone on this team to get the spotlight and I 
"If me or any of the other guys missed, we'd haven't tried to steal it. "By his actions, he has have caught flak from the organization," Grant stolen it away, and should have realized the said. "We didn't win the championship as one consequences before he acted. 
Siegfried sneaks by Farley Pasquerillas, Lyons, Howard triumph 
By ELAINE J.C. DEBASSIGE Knott was without the ser­Sports Writer vices of veteran quarterback Ruth Kmak. Karen Wallace 
In double overtime, Siegfried filled in ably for Knott. 
was able to sneak by Farley's Finest, 18-12. Farley failed to score on their 
P.W. 12, Lewis 6 
second possession of overtime, and Siegfried capitalized on this 
Pasquerilla West's offensive situation. Colleen Knight caught 
line was able to hold back the the game-winning touchdown 
Chicken defense to beat Lewis. 12-6.
from a Marce McNeill pass. 
Ronnie Alvarez had another
Both teams scored in the first overtime. Siegfried was first to 
touchdown for P.W. and helped score on an Angie Luzio run. 
the Plaid Wave to another vic­Farley was able to counter that 
tory. Terry Carter's interception touchdow~ with one of their 
set up a Plaid Wave score. own from Bresnahan. In the closing minutes of the Lyons 12, Off-Campus 8 second half, Katie Ryan was 
Off-Campus was blindsided byable to intercept a Farley pass. 
Lyons, 12-8. 

However, the Slammers could Kristy Alkidas ran for the not capitalize, and the game Heathen touchdown and Kristinwent into overtime. 
Orlando converted the extra
"I don't think I've ever been 
point . Anne Broderick and 
as proud of any athletic team as 
Kerry Norton made key plays I was of our team today." said • on the defense but their efforts
Siegfried head coach Doug 
were not enough to hold LyonsOrsagh. 
off. 

P.E. 8, Knott 6 Howard 14, Badin 8 
In a defensive battle, 
All the scoring had fizzled out
Pasquerilla East was able to 
by halftime in this battle, withedge Knott, 8-6. 
Howard escaping with a 14-8P.E.'s touchdown came from a win.
quick pitch to Nikki Ebright. 
Kim Harter caught a 22-yardAlison Kossler made the two­touchdown pass for the firstpoint conversion. 
Howard score, while Carrie
Christine Hollembaek's inter­Mouritsen brought in the nextception and return led to the touchdown.
winning Pyro touchdown. 








