-~--------------------­
-------------------~---------------------------~------------------~·----------~ 

VOL. XXIII NO. 139 WEDNESDAY, MAY 1,1991 
i .THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ~AINT MARY'S · . 
Author D'Souza discusses affirmative action programs 
By ANNMARIE ZELL News Writer 
Affirmative action leads to "a sense of injustice, racial sepa­ratism and a high drop-out rate" according to Dinesh D'Souza, author of "Illiberal Education: The Politics of Race and Sex on Campus." 
In a lecture Tuesday night, D'Souza commented that uni­versities across the country are undergoing a "silent revolu­tion" of "multi-culturalism" in an eiTort to prepare students for a culturally diverse world. D'Souza views this as a laud­able goal, however he debates the means, namely affirmative action, which universities are currently using to accomplish their goal. 
"Affirmative action misplaces minority students," said D'Souza. If affirmative action were not based on race but rather on socio-economic fac­tors it would place students ac­curately and thus maximize their probability for success, he added. 

The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Dinesh D'Souza lectured last night on the injustice of affirmative action. 
D'Souza said he feels that at the University of California at presently, affirmative action Berkeley as evidence of this does not help the students it misconception. At Berkeley, the seeks to help and cited the drop out rate for Caucasian drop-out rate for different races students Is 25 percent. For 
Typhoon strikes Bangladesh; initial reports say 1,000 dead 
DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP)­Bangladesh, a flat, teeming country washed by the great Himalayan rivers and the often­enraged waters of the Bay of Bengal, is prone to disasters both natural and manmade. 
Typhoons like the one that devastated the southeastern coast Tuesday have helped make Bangladesh one of the world's poorest nations. Initial reports said at least 1,000 peo­ple died; the government esti­mated damage at $1 billion. 
Each year, floods Inundate the country during the summer monsoon. In the dry months before the rains, crop-damag­ing drought is common. Devas­tating storms hit the coast with sad regularity. 
The disasters often leave a 
• 
Soviet quake I page 4 

• 
Tornado cleanup I page 4 

• 
Floods I page 4 

• 
Nuclear plant fire I page 5 


trali ol d1sease brought on by malnutrition and a shortage of clean drinking water. 
The government estimates that Bangladesh, which gained independence from Pakistan in 1971, lost nearly 500,000 peo­ple In a 1970 typhoon that hit roughly the same area as Tues­day's storm. 
Bangladesh is on the northern tip of the Bay of Bengal, a stormy, shark-infested sea. Three of the largest rivers of the Indian subcontinent, the Ganges, the Brahmaputra and the Meghna, form a delta across 
SUFR coalition officially recognized by University 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
The coalition Students United for Hespect (SUFR) received recognition as an official stu­dent organization Tuesday, ac­cording to Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities. 
A member of SUFR brought an application for recognition, along with a copy of its consti­tution, to the Office of Student Activities Monday, Cassidy said. 
The constitution "basically says that we want to make Notre Dame a better place," said SUFH member Michele Cage. 
No copy of that constitution was available at press time. 
SUFR member Beatriz Cruz said that the group will not have any officers or hierarchy. Instead, she said they will have, "a secretary whose only re­sponsibility is correspondence." 
For the moment, SUFR mem­ber Tom Steele said, SUFR will concentrate its efforts on the Task Force on Cultural Diver­sity announced Monday by Uni­versity President Father Ed­ward Malloy in his open Jetter to the University. "We know we're going to be a part of it," Steele said. 
Regarding Malloy's Jetter, sev­eral members of SUFR said that there were not many new ideas presented in the letter. 
MHe already said a Jot of the things (he said in the letter}. He only went a step further," by creating the task force, one member said. 
Cage expressed her hopes that the task force will be composed of "people who are familiar with the issues and know what changes need to be made." 
MWe want the task force to work," Cruz said. "Hopefully, good things will come out of it." 
the nation and empty into the bay. 
Bangladesh's 110 million resi­dents earn a paltry $170 per person per year. The density of the population, 2,000 per square mile, is the third-highest in the world after Hong Kong and Singapore. 
With so little available land, many must eke out a living on delta islands along the coast that are most vulnerable to the 
lury or the sea. Only a few feet above sea level, they have no trees to shield them and llttle vegetation except rice paddies. 
Bangladesh has its share of manmade tragedies also. An es­timated 3 million people died in the 1970-71 war that resulted in the political separation of Bangladesh from Pakistan. 
Hispanics, the rate is 50 percent, and for Blacks it is 60 percent. 
According to D'Souza, of all the students accepted under the affirmative action program at Berkeley, only 25 percent grad­uated. 
Further, D'Souza said that affirmative action policies make the situation worse for the students who are able to stay in school by putting a "question mark on their qualifications for admission." 
D'Souza said he asked the admissions officer at Berkeley, "Are you doing these kids any favors?" by admitting them un­der affirmative action policies. The administration officer, D'Souza said, explained that Berkeley was giving the stu­dents a chance to attend college that they might not have had otherwise. 
D'Souza noted that if the lesser qualified applicants at Berkeley instead went to Uni­versity of California at Irvine, "they would be equally matched" and therefore more likely to graduate. 
D'Souza advocates an affir­mative action plan based on so­cio-ecomonic factors. He said he would like to see the univer­sity admission policies move away from a "racial head counting." 
He said he reallzes that his proposal will favor minorities, because minorities are more often in a lower socio-economic bracket than their white coun­terparts. 
D'Souza compared the case of a student from a poor district in Washington D.C., and a student from a prep school education, each with similar aptitude test scores. He said that the student from the poor school shows more Mpotential" than the prep school student because he managed to succeed in a more difficult environment. 
This accomplishment should be weighted to his favor in the admission process, D'Souza added. 
D'Souza also said he is In 
see D'SOUZA/ page 6 
Problems at computer labs result from more student users 
By ANN MARIE HARTMAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The long lines incurred at the LaFortune and Hesburgh Li­brary computer labs over the past two weeks seem to be due to the increased number of stu­dents using computers, and not due to equipment breakdown, according to Lisa Berg, assis­tant director of campus clus­ters. 
Because of final papers and projects, more students are us­ing the computer facilities. On Monday night, about 60 stu­dents were waiting in line at midnight at the LaFortune lab, according to Pat Midden, assis­tant manager. 
Joe Roberts, a Notre Dame sophomore, added his name to 
LaFortune's list Monday night at 10:30 p.m. and said he was number 58 on the list. 
"The line had not moved much by 1 a.m.," said Roberts, who resorted to borrowing a friend's portable word proces­sor at 1:30 a.m. 
Berg said that large crowds occur at LaFortune and Has­burgh because students are not aware of the other available fa­cilities on campus. Both the Security buildln~ and the newly-opened Computing Center and Mathematics Building have ten Macintosh computers and are currently open for twenty-four hour use. 
She encourages students to phone ahead to the various 
see LABS I page 6 

Sunshine and good music The Observer/Elisa Klosterman 
Students gathered on Fieldhouse Mall to listen to the Five O'Clock Shadows and enjoy the beautiful afternoon yesterday. 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Compared to others, Steinfels isn't so bad 
With graduation rapidly approaching, an important issue is on the minds of everyone who will be attending the commencement ceremonies. 
That issue, of course, is what exactly University John O'Brien Provost Timothy O'Meara will be wearing under his Accent Editor cap and gown. Most likely ------­it will be a pair of red, lacy thong undies. But that's just one observer's guess. 
Seriously, though, every graduate is losing sleep over one important issue: 
Who the heck is Margaret O'Brien Steinfels? 
The answer to this question is complicated. Most members of the Administration will say that she was picked because of her outstanding commitment to Catholic values. 
However, the real reason she was picked is easy: HER MIDDLE NAME! Yes, that's right, it's because she is an O'Brien. You might say, "Hey, who cares what some O'Brien has to say?" 
Well, YOU obviously, because you're reading this. The only problem with Maggie (as us O'Briens call her) is that Steinfels stuff. But that's okay, it builds character. 
If, by chance, you could care less about us O'Briens, maybe you should look at the list of alternate speakers that Maggie beat out. 
• 
Senator Edward Kennedy. Originally scheduled to give a talk on "How to Pick Up Ba~es After Graduation," Teddy had to cancel after his nephew invited him to a May Crowning bash at the Kennedy compound. 

• 
The Pope. VIsiting Notre Dame on a fact­finding mission, John Paul II knelt down to kiss the ground in a dormitory basement and proceeded to gag on a cockroach. -No come back here," he said in broken English, "this place smell like Old Milwaukee." 

• 
Nancy Reagan. Was a shoo-in to do the honors until Frank Sinatra cancelled his gig at the Morris Civic Auditorium. While Mrs. Reagan could not be reached for comment, Ol' Blue Eyes was heard saying, "That's why the lady is a tramp." 

• 
Donnie Wahlberg. The world-renowed badboy of the New Kids on the Block was said to be excited about returning to the JACC. However, as everyone knows, he ran into trouble with the law. Father Edward "Monk" Malloy and Father E. William "Kegger" Beauchamp gave Donnie the heave-ho. In his defense, Donnie said, "If you thought I did a job on that hotel, you should see what vodka does to a laundry building." 

• 
The Rocket. Penciled in to replace Wahlberg, Rocket shocked everyone by accepting an offer to speak at the commencement ceremonies of the University of Saskatchewan after they offered him more money. Athletic Director Richard "Ricky" Rosenthal reacted to Ismail's announcement by saying, "Digger? Digger who?" 



So, the selection committee, headed by Father E. William "Cisco" Beachamp, came to big Maggie and asked her to speak. The rest is Notre Dame history. 
Don't be nervous, Maggie, all us O'Briens is behind ya. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tuesday's Staff 
Production 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Northern Ireland talks begin 
• BELFAST, Northern Ireland-Talks on new political arrangements for Northern Ireland began today with public silence from the participants and a flourish of abuse from a lone demonstrator. Heads of the major Protestant and Roman Catholic political parties have given themselves until July 16 to reach agreement, or at least to achieve enough to warrant more talks.The talks could lead to a restoration of self-government in Northern Ireland, which had its parliament suspended in 1972, early on in the "the troubles." The province is now governed by London. 
NATIONAL 
e j ge in Marion Barry's drug trial was racially biased, one of Barry's defense lawyers said Tuesday in asking a federal appeals court to reverse the former mayor's cocaine­possession conviction and six-month prison sentence. Another defense attorney argued that U.S. District Judge Thomas Jackson improperly lengthened the former mayor's sentence by concluding he had obstructed the grand jury's investigation of his alleged drug use. Defense co-counsel William Kunstler contended Jackson "had a racial bias" against Barry. Kunstler also contended that Jackson showed bias by barring from the courtroom two of Barry's supporters. Barry, who was arrested in an FBI sting operation, was convicted last summer of one count of cocaine possession and acquitted of another. 
Mu~~ets leHfiiY join Disney 
INDIANA 

World Jewish Congress urgedTuesday that Jonathan Pollard's life sentence be commuted to time served since his 1986 guilty plea to federal charges that he gave classified documents to Israel. Pollard, formerly of South Bend, is serving his sentence in solitary confinement at the federal correctional facility in Marion, Ill. Last fall, a federal court in Washington, D.C., denied Pollard's petition to withdraw his guilty plea and stand trial on the charges against him. Pollard's father, Morris Pollard, a Notre Dame professor, said an appeal of that denial is scheduled to be heard Sept. 10. The elder Pollard said he is pleased with the step taken by the Jewish organization. 
OF INTEREST 
• A gender Inclusive liturgy will be held in the Pasquerilla West chapel Thursday, at 9:30 a.m. All are welcome to attend. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAV IN HISTORY 
Lisa Bourdon  News  
Kristin lynch  Alicia Reale  
VIewpointRich Riley Systems Cnris Caracciolo  Sports Rich Kurz  Frank Rivera Accent Melissa Cusack Paige Smoron  
Mike Murphy Graphics Brendan Regan  Scoreboard JimVogl  Ad Design Doug BronsingTraet Hupp Kevin Hardman  
Circulation Bill O'Rourke  Amy Eckert Lisa Gunsorek  
Man Novak  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/Apri130 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 149.86 Million 205.09 v4 .47 S&P COMPOSITE 373.66 ... 5.36 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,876.98 -4 35.40 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD ..f $ 1.60to $352.10/oz. Sll...VER {} 0.07¢ to $3.915/oz. 

• 
In 1884: Construction began on the first skyscraper, a 10-story structure in Chicago built by the Home Insurance Co. of New York. 

• 
In 1948: The People's Democratic Republic of Korea, or North Korea, was proclaimed. 

• 
In 1987: During a visit to West Germany, Pope John Paul II beatified Edith Stein, a Jewish-born Carmelite nun who was gassed in the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz during the Holocaust. 

• 
One year ago: Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and other Kremlin leaders were jeered by thousands of people during the annual May Day parade in Red Square. 


Wednesday, May 1, 1991 The Observer page3 
UN prepares to take over Kurdish refugee camps 
ZAKHO, Iraq (AP) -The United Nations raised Its blue­and-white flag in northern Iraq on Tuesday, preparing to take over a U.S.-built camp for Iraqi Kurdish refugees. Thousands of refugees began streaming homeward. 
Allied officials also hinted there could be a further expan­sion of the security zone for the hundreds of thousands of Kurds who fled to the Turkish border after Saddam Hussein crushed a Kurdish uprising in the wake of the Persian Gulf War. 
A U.S. source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said any part of Iraq north of the 36th parallel would be considered potential territory for the allied­protected zone. 
"This Is a historic day," said 
U.S. Army Maj. Gen. Jay Gar­ner, as United Nations special envoy Steffan De Mistura offi­cially opened a humanitarian center for displaced Kurds near the allled-built tent city at Za­kho. 
The move is seen as an inter­mediate step toward the United Nations assuming responsibility for the camp itself. 
Meanwhile, a cavalcade of overloaded cars, trucks, wag­ons, buses and tractors began descending from the primitive mountain camps on the Turkish border, heading for the Zakho area. 
Just as allied planners had hoped, many of the returning Kurds drove past the U.S.-built camp and went directly to their homes in Zakho. Those heading to the tent city included resi­dents of towns outside the allied security zone and those whose homes were damaged. 
At the United Nations, the United States, Britain and France indicated Tuesday that they believed the U.N. secre­tary-general should press Iraq to permit a U.N. pollee force to protect the Kurds and replace the 9,000 allied troops in northern Iraq. The secretary­general, Javier Perez de Cuellar, was non-committal. Iraq has denounced the proposal as a violation of its sovereignty. 
The U.N. sanctions committee deferred action on Iraq's re­quests to regain $1 billion in frozen bank assets worldwide. It also wants to sell approxi­mately $1 billion worth of oil to finance purchases of food, medical supplies and humani­tarian aid. 
The economic sanctions were imposed on Iraq after its Aug. 2 takeover of Kuwait. 
Also on Tuesday: 
-Turkish President Turgut Ozal accused Turkey's Western allies of not doing enough to help Kurdish refugees on the Turkish border, saying he wants more than "just oral support." But he thanked President Bush for having taken "a very courageous initiative." 

-The Iraqi Kurdistan Front, a coalition of Kurdish groups, urged the international com­munity to guarantee the auton­omy pact they hope to negotiate with Saddam. In a statement faxed from Cyprus to London, the front said it would soon send a delegation to Baghdad for further autonomy talks. 
-Iraq has told international regulators all its weapons­grade uranium is buried under rubble from allied bombings, 
U.S. officials said in Washing­ton. Under terms of the U.N. cease-fire resolution that ended the Gulf War, Iraq must disclose its stocks of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, allow their destruction and promise not to make more. 
In Zakho, Ahmad Muhammad Yosefs eyes welled with tears as he toured his home, ran­sacked by Iraqis during the family's exile. Doors were kicked in and the rooms stripped of furniture, clothes and the television set. 
But Yosef, a Kurdish patriarch of 12 grown children and their families, said he was happy to be back. 
Winners of Richardson cash awards named 

Special to The Obeerver 
The Notre Dame department of Romance languages and lit­erature has establlshed an an­nual award in honor of William Richardson, a professor of Spanish and Spanish literature at Notre Dame from 1964-85, who died of natural causes April 21. 
Corey Colllns was announced as this year's winner of the award, in the amount of$100. 
The award has been donated by Isabel Jakab, assistant pro­fessional speciallst In Romance languages and literature, and will be presented to a graduat­Ing African-American student who has shown unusually strong Interest in Hispanic cui­ture through his/her active par­ticipation In campus and/or community projects. 
Jakab has also dona ted an award of $100 in honor of Car­los Aballi, who was the director of the University language lab for many years. This award, to be presented to a graduating Hispanic student who has taken Spanish at the University and has been active in promoting Hispanic cultural awareness, has been awarded this year to Diana Fuentes. 
Richardson was born Dec. 20, 1922, In Waterloo, Iowa. After leaving ND, he taught at Tianjin (China) Institute of Technology from 1985-86 and at Holy Cross College from 1989-90. He was 68. 
The Obeerver/EIIaa Kl0111trman 
Enjoying a warm spring day 
Catherine McGinley takes a break from the pressures of approaching finals to bask in the sunshine out­side of Pasquerilla West yesterday. 
NO surveys honorary degree recipients

Congratulation Class of 1991 
Alumni-Senior Club will be open regular hours on each of the following nights 
Wednesday, May 1 Thursday, May 2 Friday, May 3 
Friday, May 10 Saturday, May 11 
Wednesday, May 15 Thursday, May 16 Saturday, May 18 
Special to The Obaerver 
A survey of honorary degree recipients for 40 University of Notre Dame spring com­mencements has revealed that a third of the recipients have been academicians and presi­dents of colleges and universi­ties. 
Of the 513 people who have received honorary doctorates during this period, 116 have gone to faculty members, in­cluding 18 to members of the Notre Dame faculty, and 55 have gone to chief executive of­fleers of institutions of higher learning. 
Over the past four decades, ND has honored four United States presidents -Dwight Eisenhower, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Rea­gan. Nine members of Congress have been honored but ND has bestowed LL.D.'s on 57 others in the federal government, in­cluding eight cabinet members. 
Ninety-eight priests, including 23 cardinals or patriarchs and 27 bishops, have received honorary degrees. One honored cardinal, Giovanni Montini, later became Pope Paul VI, and four curial cardinals have re­ceived honorary doctorates. 
Eighty-three degrees have gone to citizens of other coun­tries, including the heads of government of Canada (twice), Austria, El Salvador and, this year, Ireland. 
Eleven percent of NO's honorary degrees, including nine to be awarded May 18, have gone to female candidates. Four women have addressed spring commencement at the University, including this year's speaker, Margaret O'Brien Ste­infels, editor of Commonweal magazine. 
Other major awardee cate­gories include 19 philan­thropists and heads of founda­tions; 18 publishers or journal­ists; 14 architects, artists or museum directors; and 13 judges, including four Supreme Court justices. 
Nominations for honorary de­grees come from the four col­leges, the Law School and graduating seniors. The presi­dent of the University also tra­ditionally advances candidates. The final selection is made by the Board of Trustees. 
And don't miss Cliff Erickson on May 10 and 11. Plus, even lower daily specials. 

The Observer 
page4 Wednesday, May 1, 1991 
SAC repairs base damage Rescuers look for quake survivors 
OFFUTT AIR FORCE BASE, Neb. (AP)-The Strategic Air Command said tornado damage at a bomber base in Kansas probably will top several million dollars and full repairs will require a special appropriation by Congress. 
The command said Monday it will use $1.2 million in emer­gency funds for cleanup and initial repairs of damage from Friday evening's tornado at McConnell Air Force Base out­side Wichita. 
The tornado destroyed the base's 15-bed hospital, gymna­sium, recreation center and 100 housing units. An elementary school on base had heavy dam­age and dozens more houses were damaged.No one was killed although sixteen people suffered minor injuries. 
"We're still going to determine the cost," said Col. Philip Stowell, an assistant deputy chief of staff for engineering and services at SAC's Offutt Air Force Base headquarters out­side Omaha. "We'll work the funding back through Congress because of the funding levels involved." 
The McConnell tornado was the same one that touched down a few minutes later in Andover, Kan., killing residents of a mobile home park. Stowell said it passed within 200 yards of base dormitories that were occupied at the time. 

Susan Dunn reflects on a book from her childhood which she found after her trailer home was completely destroyed by the tornado that struck her WIChita, Kan., suburb Friday, killing 14 people. 
KUTAISI, U.S.S.R. (AP) ­Rescuers on Tuesday dug through a mountain village that one official said was "wiped off the map," hoping to find sur­vivors among dozens of people buried alive in an earthquake. 
Monday's quake in Soviet Ge­orgia killed at least 80 people, injured 500, destroyed 40 schools and six hospitals, and left 80,000 homeless, said Ge­orgian Prime Minister Tengiz Sigua. 
By Tuesday night, rescuers were holding out little hope of finding survivors in collapsed homes and buildings in the towns and villages of north­central Georgia. 
Sigua said after a helicopter tour that he expected the death toll to rise. He described flying over the village of Khakhieti, destroyed when a mountainside collapsed and buried 40 people alive. 
"It was awful," Sigua said in an interview with The Associ­ated Press in Kutaisi, about 36 miles west of Khakhieti. "Simply put, it's a nightmare." 
"This village was wiped off the map," be said. 
In the town of Sachkbere, a regional center, hundreds of homes were destroyed and makeshift tarpaulin tents were erected in a soccer field for 60 families. All electricity was knocked out. 
One person was pulled alive from a wrecked building in the town Monday, and a group of 
rescuers arrived from Moscow to look for more survivors Tuesday night. 
City official Alexander 
Guard troops help battle Louisiana floods 
GRAND ISLE, La. (AP) -Na­tional Guard troops helped bat­tle the stormy Gulf of Mexico as it eroded this coastal island Tuesday, piling sandbags on strained levees and evacuating families elsewhere across rain­soaked Louisiana. 
Thousands of homes had been 
flooded in the northern part of 
the state. 
In neighboring Mississippi, the Army Corps of Engineers esti­mated a total of 1. 7 million acres, mostly agricultural land, will have been flooded in cen­tral and northern parts of the state by the time all streams in the area crest. 
"We are looking at a lake level that is higher than it's ever been before, about a foot higher than it was when the previous record was set back in 1973," said Hal Moore, Corps' resource manager at the 4 7­year-old Arkabutla Lake Reser­voir in extreme northwest Mis­sissippi. 
Almost 10 inches of rain fell on some areas of Louisiana on Monday and Tuesday, with up to 20 in places since Friday. Rainfall since the first of the year is more than double the average across Louisiana ­
46.18 inches at New Orleans, for instance. 
The sky cleared across Louisiana on Tuesday and the slow-moving front that dumped the rain late last week began to clear out. However, another front is expected to hit Louisiana by Friday, possibly bringing more rain, the Na­tional Weather Service said. 
Storm-driven wind sent tides 3 feet above normal against the beaches of Grand Isle, the only inhabited barrier island off Louisiana's coast. 
National Guard troops piled sandbags along the disappear­ing shoreline Tuesday, trying to keep a restaurant and a gro­cery store from toppling into the gulf and hoping to shore up the pilings supporting summer homes already sitting off shore. 
"It's nip-and-tuck," said Mayor Andy Valence. "The gulf is about 15 feet from the shoulder of Highway 1." The highway is the only link be­tween the mainland and Grand Isle, which has a population of 2,100. 
An $8.5 million project to re­store part of the island's beaches and provide protection against the waves has just about been erased, Valence said. 
"In the last five months, we've lost all 200 feet of the beach and half of the sand levee be­hind it," be said. The project was due for completion in June. 
In northern Louisiana, storms have killed one person, flooded homes and closed roads and schools since Friday. 
The Ouachita River was headed toward a crest of 49.5 feet at Monroe, almost 10 feet above flood stage. Bayou De­Siard threatened to break its levees and spill into the swank residential area near Northeast Louisiana University. Volunteers and National Guardsmen heaped sandbags atop that levee. 
Union Parish Sheriff Bob Buckley said about 1,500 homes flooded in his parish, and many people were evacu­ated. 
He said about 9 feet of water was flowing over the Lake D'Arbonne spillway east of Farmerville, and the lake was still rising. Pumps wouldn't help. "We don't have a place to pump it," he said. 
HAPPY 21st 

Cberbakov said they needn't have bothered. Noting that sur­vivors were found for days in the rubble of the 1988 earthquake in neighboring Ar­menia, he said: 
"Armenia was different ... 
There were no hills there." 
Mountains of rock crushed 
homes in the Georgian towns, 
minimizing chances for sur­
vival. 
The injured were being ferried out to hospitals elsewhere in the mountainous republic, while officials were shipping in busloads of water, food and tents for the homeless. 
About 80 percent of the 
housing was destroyed in the 
affected area, where about 
250,000 people live, Sigua said. 
Wednesday -the Soviet holi­day of May Day -was declared a day of mourning in Georgia. Soviet President Mikhail Gor­bachev sent his condolences to relatives of the victims and he authorized his government to assist the stricken region. 
Offers of aid have been re­
ceived from Israel, France and 
Japan, Sigua said. 
The American Red Cross in 
Washington said the League of 
Red Cross and Red Crescent So­
cieties sent an assessment team 
to Georgia and that the Arme­
nian Red Cross also sent a 27­
member rescue team. 
The earthquake struck at 
12:13 p.m. Monday among sparsely populated villages and towns and measured 7.1 on the 
Richter scale. Its epicenter was near 11,363-foot Mount Samertskhie and Ambrolauri, a town 90 miles northwest of the Georgian capital of Tbilisi. 
Sigua said it was fortunate 
that the quake occurred at 
midday, when schoolchildren 
were at recess. 
"We were very, very lucky, be­
cause all the children were out­
side," he said. "Otherwise, the 
disaster would be 20 to 30 
times worse." 
Rescuers managed to save 30 
miners trapped in the Barital 
barium mine high in the Cauca­
sus Mountains near the quake's 
epicenter, said Georgia's deputy 
health minister, Merab Ke­
tashvili. 
"None of them were injured, 
although several were short of 
breath," he said by telephone. 
Aftershocks continued 
throughout Monday and early 
Tuesday. 
"Ruined houses and public 
buildings, highways, bridges, 
power lines -this is the pic­
ture" of the damage, Tass said 
Tuesday. 
Tremors were felt throughout 
much of the Caucasus Moun­
tains. The area of greatest 
damage measured about 24 
square miles around the 
epicenter, said Sergei Orefyev of 
the Institute of Physics and 
Earth Sciences. 
Also heavily damaged was 
Dzhava, a mountain town of 
11,000 people near the epicen­
ter, as well as nearby Ambro­
lauri, Oni and Sachkhere. 
Sachkhere's railroad station 
was reported badly damaged, 
along with two churches in the 
town and a synagogue in Oni. The newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda reported damage to military airfields in northern Georgia. 

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI r------This Week Only-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT: I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
~ ______________~il~ha!:.,utt..!!:s_ t 
:$5 OFF ANY PERM : 
1 Mast![~~ 1 ~------------------~ 
No Double Discounts 
With Student I. D. 
We Trim Prices, Not Quality Walk-Ins Welcome 





MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

Wednesday, May 1, 1991 The Observer pageS 
Fire damages nuclear plant; no radiation released 
WISCASSET, Maine (AP) ­Fire severely damaged the non­nuclear part of the Maine Yan­kee nuclear power plant, offi­cials said Tuesday. They said the reactor shut down normally, no radiation was released and nobody was injured. 
U.S. Rep. Thomas Andrews accused Maine Yankee officials of withholding details about the fire's severity when it began Monday night. Plant officials denied trying to downplay it. 
"The public has a right to know exactly what occurred," said Andrews, a Maine Demo­crat. "They should be given all the details surrounding the ac­cident and the ensuing investi­gation as quickly as possible." 
On Monday night, Maine Yan­kee officials confirmed a fire had broken out, but gave no Indication of Its severity and said they could provide no de­tails until Tuesday. Late Tues­day morning, the Nuclear Regu­latory Commission revealed the first description of the fire and details of the damage. 
The company said later Tues­day that the plant's main gen­erator may have sustained "serious damage" during the fire, but that It could be several days before the extent was known. 
Maine Yankee President Charles Frizzle said the fire was "probably the most serious event" at the plant in its 19 years. He stressed no one was injured and the blaze posed no danger to the public. 
The fire began at 6:32 p.m. Monday and was classified as an "unusual event," the lowest of four ratings the NRC gives to nuclear plant incidents. 
NRC spokeswoman Diane Screnci said that authorities on the scene reported "a loud boom" preceded the hydrogen fire, but she said investigators were unsure whether an explo­sion occurred. 
The NRC's initial report of the Incident said "reports were re­ceived of an explosion in the main transformer and of multi­ple hydrogen fires in the tur­bine hall." 
Charles Marschall, the NRC's senior resident inspector at the plant, said the fire was fueled by hydrogen and damaged the plant's main transformer, elec­trical conductors and wires leading from the generator to the transformer. 
The transformer feeds elec­tricity produced by the plant to the transmission system outside the plant, the company said. 
At a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Frizzle said the fire could have happened at any power plant -nuclear or non­nuclear, such as a coal-or oil­fired plant. 

"I don't want to downgrade the seriousness of the event, but it's not a nuclear event," he said. "From my perspective, this should not reflect negatively on the use of nuclear power. It has nothing to do with nuclear power." 
If the generator is not dam­aged, the plant will be shut down for several weeks while officials replace the trans­former. If the generator is in­operable, the plant may be down for several months while a new generator is installed, Frizzle said. 
Officials were investigating the source of the fire, which oc­curred 100 to 200 feet from the containment building that en­cases the plant's nuclear reac­tor within a 4 1/2-foot wall of concrete reinforced with steel. 

The plant was operating nor­mally when the main trans­former failed, and the reactor shut down automatically, offi­cials said. 
Frizzle said the fire probably began with a fault, or short, in the transformer or sparks in the generator that could have ignited hydrogen, which Is used as a coolant for the generator. 
"Both scenarios are equally likely," he said. 
The fire was fueled by leaks in hydrogen lines running under the generator, officials said. 
Plant firefighters initially pumped carbon dioxide into the building to try to extinguish the blaze, but later elected to let the hydrogen fire burn itself out, which it did at 10:03 p.m., officials said. 
The NRC's Serene! said no radiation was released during the incident, adding: "On the non-nuclear side, the damage was severe because of the (apparent) explosion. The pri­mary side, the nuclear side, re­sponded as it should have and things went well." 
About 38 percent of Maine Yankee's 840 megawatts of electricity goes to Central Maine Power Co., the state's largest utility. The rest is sold to other utilities in Maine and other New England states. Central Maine Power spokesman Mark Ishkanlan said the Maine Yankee shutdown won't cause any immediate problems. 

Several residents of Wiscasset, a town of approximately 6,000 people about 40 miles north of Portland along the coast, were alarmed by the fire. 
''I'm concerned about that place," said Mildred Curtis, a waitress at a diner near the plant. "I never wanted it.... It's really getting too old now. The place is getting worn out." 
Some anti-nuclear groups contended Maine Yankee at­tempted to hide the fire's severity from the public. 
ASUCCESSFUL CAREER TAKES YEARS TO BUILD. ASUCCESSFUL WARDROBE, MINUTES. 
While fitting into the Which means that no real world isn't always matter what your build, easy, fitting into our Adams and no matter what your Row, Strathmore and Em­bassy Square suits is. 

l 
That's because no aspirations, you'll be sure other store offers such a to find a suit that makes you look your best. 
Bring in this ad 
f 
and take an additional 
l 


So come in today. 
Because while the job

l ~y:/~-~1! J 
at $/89. market may be hard to enter, our store isn't. 
wide selection of athletic For the store nearest 
fit suits in both 8" and I0" 
you just call our toll free 
drops, as well as the 
number: 1-800-356-SUIT. 
traditional 6" drop ("drop" refers to the number of 
RICHMAN 
inches between your jack-

BROTHERS 
et and waist size). Were the perfect fit. 
Starting at $189. Includes /ree alterations /or the life ofthe suit. 
The Brickyard • Stratford Square • Chicago Ridge • Evergreen Plaza • River Oaks (next to J.C. Penney) • Lakehurst, Waukegan • Woodfield • Yorktown 
• Spring Hill • Hawthorn Center • Lincoln Mall • Southlake, Merrillville • Fox Valley, Aurora • Golf Mill • Cherryvale Mall • Machesney Park Mall 
• 
Lincolnwood Town Center • Ford City • Orland Park • No. Riverside Mall • Castleton Square • Washington Square • Greenwood Park Mall 

• 
Tippecanoe Mall, Lafayette • Glenbrook Square • Southtown Mall • Scottsdale Mall • University Mall • Orchards Mall • Westdale Mall All Stores Open Sundays • Major Credit Cards Accepted. 


The Observer Wednesday, May1, 1991 
South African government misses deadline for release of prisoners 
prisoners, and indicated mass Macozoma said this week it action such as strikes and could he more than 5,000. The protests would be used to press government insists on a far 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa the demand. lower figure. (AP) -Black leader Nelson Mandela said the government The ANC Youth League spon­On April 5, the ANC threat­had missed a Tuesday deadline sored small marches across the ened to suspend talks with the for freeing political prisoners country Tuesday. Mandela said white-dominated government and accused it of using the de Klerk told him 134 people unless de Klerk frred his Cabi­prisoners as political bargaining were arrested for taking part in net ministers in charge of secu­chips. illegal gatherings. rity and took other action it said 
would foster peace. 

President F.W. de Klerk said Twenty-six prisoners were nearly 1,000 prisoners had freed Tuesday, and they told De Klerk said Monday that been freed and charged that reporters 43 remained incar­township violence could lead to Mandala's African National cerated at Robben Island off civil war and invited Mandela Congress -and prisoners Cape Town. Those still in jail and his main rival, Mangosuthu themselves -had delayed the said in a statement they would Buthelezi, to join him for peace process by waiting until the last fast until freed. talks. minute to apply for amnesty. 
De Klerk said 862 prisoners Most black-on-black violence 
De Klerk spoke to Parliament had been freed and 71 were be­has involved supporters of the as he faced yet another ANC ing processed for release as of ANC and Buthelezi's Inkatha deadline -a May 9 demand for Tuesday. Applications for re­Freedom Party. Mandela on curbing black factional violence lease numbered 2,174 in April Tuesday called de Klerk's invi­in the townships. alone, he said. "Compare this tation a "smokescreen." 
with 725 for March, and you 
The ANC says it will end talks will realize that it is not the Police said Tuesday 10 people with the government if that government that has been had died in township violence deadline is not met. The talks dragging its feet." since Monday. More than 6,000 are to set the stage for negotia­people have died since the ANC tions on ending apartheid, The government agreed in and Inkatha began their power South Africa's system of racial August in talks with the ANC to struggle in 1986. segregation and white rule. free political prisoners, and it 
established an April 30 target In Washington Tuesday, "Today is the day we know date. The ANC interpreted the Herman Cohen, the assistant AP Photo the government has failed to date as a deadline. -secretary of state, said the Bush The flag of the African National Congress (ANC) burns Monday as meet its obligations," Mandela administration will not lift right-wing students protested against Nelson Mandala's visit to the told about 3,000 chanting, foot­The agreement between the economic sanctions on South University of Pretoria where Mandala was to address the students. stamping supporters who nlled two parties read: "The latest Africa until the government Johannesburg City Hall on date envisaged for the comple­meets all conditions spelled out Tuesday night. "We say not only tion of the total task ... is not in 1986. He said South Africa were not designed for," she that it must be met, but we will later than 30 April 1991." must release political prisoners 

added. 
ensure that it is met." and all detainees held without
Labs 
The Macintosh programs 
The two sides do not agree on trial, and repeal a law continued from page 1 have virus-detecting software He demanded the government the number of prisoners in­restricting residency in areas byand the problems with the in­"empty the jails" of political volved. ANC spokesman Saki race.
troduction of new paper into computer labs as a way of the printers last week have As examples of racial sepa­sion of racially sensitive issues. 
avoiding the long waits. been rectified, said Berg. 
ratism, D'Souza cited, the D'Souza notes that racial in­

D'Souza

Shannon Ryan, an ND junior, Africa House at Oberlin College, cidents have erupted "not in the found another solution to the "As far as I know, no funda­continued from page 1 and the Positively Black year­South, but in the most liberalovercrowding at the LaFortune mental problems seem to exist book at the University of Penn­schools, including Berkeley,
support of changes in curricu­
lab. Ryan said instead of wait­in the computer system at this sylvania. D'Souza identified a Stanford, University of Michi­
lum based on "merit." He
ing in lines at Notre Dame, she time," said Donald Spicer, as­contradiction in the fact that gan, Oberlin college and
commented, "the curriculum is
chose to type her papers at the sistant provost for University students "can't have a white Amherst." He said, "the more
always changing. Books are
labs at Saint Mary's College. computing. 
house but can have an African the university practices affir­
always coming in and others 
house." mative action, the more racial
leaving." He cited the replace­
"I went to the Saint Mary's Spicer said that Notre Dame He said that the current incidents."
ment of Silas Mariner by Moby
computer lab because there is is equipped with approximately movement of political correct­D'Souza concluded his lecture
Dick. He feels that when books 
never a line there," Ryan said. 500 computers and 50 printers. 
ness is resulting in the superfi­with an assessment of the past
are added on basis of
Beyond the long lines, faulty This computes to be about one cial "borrowing of resentments and a call for progress in the
"representation," a type of
computers and printers do ap­computer to every 15 to 20 stu­which leads to racial incidents." future, "A lot of progress has
"bizarre cultural olympics and
pear to be more prevalent dur­dents. 
D'Souza said if someone been made in race relations in
ethnic cheerleading results." 
ing finals time because of the chooses not "to tow the line of the past thirty years but now
In addition, D'Souza said that 
amount they are being used, Spicer advised students who political correctness" with re­things are at a stand still or
present forms of affirmative
said Berg. think they may be using com­spect to racially sensitive issues getting worse. We need to de­
action create racial separatism
puters often to consider invest­"one is liable to fall victim to velop a better set of rules to
on college campuses. "Today,
"Computers and printers are ing in one for themselves to barrages of attacks of insensi­have a more just society." 
you notice racial separatism on
working at a capacity that they save the trouble of dealing with tivity." According to D'Souza, The lecture was sponsored by 
t 
American Heart &,
Association ..• · 

campus. There is not a lot of this discou en discus-the Ja Maritian Centerinteraction O!!_ " 
Store Your Stuff ! 
(for the summer) 


~~M. ·s
March & April FREE! or 
at the IDI torage $10 OFF Your May Rent*~~~~-~_,..D,..e.,..._o_t.,...._ _.. 

Wednesday, May 1,1991 The Observer page 7 

HPC holds final meeting of '90-91 year 
By STEVEN KRAUSS News Writer 
Sheila Buckman of the Women's Concerns Commission, addressed the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) last night, as the presidents conducted their fmal meeting of the year. 
Buckman announced the commission's intention to insti­tute a rape education program for the fall of 1991. 
The program will be run in a small forum setting, with one male dorm and one female dorm attending it together. A short presentation and/or film will be shown in order to stimu­late discussion. Buckman hopes the program will "educate peo-
Focus 
on 
America's 

Future 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ""Support th~ ~~!~b.9.L!?Ja:~ 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -The civilian Pollee Commission on Tuesday rejected a City Council deal to let Police Chief Daryl Gates keep working while offi­cers are investigated for the videotaped beating of a mo­torist. 
The commission action sends the dispute back to Superior Court. A judge will hear argu­ments Wednesday on the com­mission's April 4 decision to suspend him for 60 days with pay after a public outcry over the Rodney King beating. 
Gates sued to overturn that 
BRING your cartons to us. 
~~(,.



of\~(,.., 
-UPS
C..\\\:\. ,1'Z. ~(l'11  *$1 00 FREE  
~  ""  insurance  
-9-6 Mon-Sat  
-no long lines  

conuenlent location 
-Pick-up at Dorm after 5:30 
Major credit cards accepted UN I UERS ITY CENTER directly behind Jeremiah Sweeney's & adjacent to Macri's Deli 
OO!VqRATtfLATIO!Vt/1 77J TilEtLAtt Or 1991 
from the Washington, D.C. Alumni Club 
If you're going to be locating in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. area, we'd like to welcome you as a new member of our club. 
For Information Contact: 
Tom McHugh 2700 Farm Road Alexandria, Virginia 
22302 703-549-7612 
ple about date rape and the problem it is on campus." 
Also, Rich Saldana was in at­tendance as a liaison between HPC and the Multicultural Ex­ecutive Council (MEC). MEC is an organization promoting the various and unique experiences that Notre Dame students share, including such aspects as home, state and region, culture, ethnicity and religion. 
Saldana stressed that MEC is looking at the positive elements of diversity, and exploring a mutual sharing of experiences. 
"A student from L.A. has a very different experience than a student from Peoria," he said. 
Finally, Michael Black, a sophomore NROTC Midshipman from Stanford Hall, asked the presidents for their support as he tries to raise $10,000 in do­nations for the Navy Relief Fund and Pedal For Power. Black will be embarking cross country on a 3,363 mile, thir­teen state bike ride beginning May 11 in California and finish­ing June 27 In Massachusetts, averaging over 70 miles a day. 

Anyone wishing to sponsor Black's ride can do so on a per mile basis, or make a flat dona­tion. All donations are tax de­ductible and, according to Black, "for a real good cause." 
The Navy Relief Fund helps families of Naval servicemen, 
,
and will receive half the pro­
,

ceeds of Black's charitable journey. 
~


CopieS of MCAT stolen at U. of Texas 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -Copies of the national Medical College Admission Tests were stolen from the University of Texas shortly after a new edition of the test was administered for the first time in 14 years, offi­cials said. 
"This is a big deal because it's a new testing program," said Karen Mitchell, director of the testing program for the Asso­ciation of American Medical Colleges, MCAT's developer and owner. "This is very dramatic. 
Police stand in front of Prague's Soviet Tank Monument, Monday, 
We have never had a theft like 
which was painted pink by anonymous pranksters Saturday. 
this." 

Gates not allowed to work during investigation 
ruling, and on April 8 won a temporary restraining order putting him back on the job. 
On Tuesday, the City Council and Gates reached an agree­ment to let him keep working during the investigation in re­turn for him dropping his law­suit. But the Police Commission balked at the agreement. 
"We are simply deciding in a non-acrimonious manner that we want the court to decide," said Police Commissioner Me­lanie Lomax. 
The commission Is appointed by Mayor Tom Bradley, who has joined civil rights leaders in asking for Gates' resignation over the March 3 clubbing of Rodney King. 
The council action was in­tended to avoid a costly legal battle. In addition to effectively lifting the suspension, it would have paid his legal expenses and freed $150,000 for the Po­lice Commission's investigation of the King beating. 
Councilman Zev Yaroslavsky said Gates lobbied to get some council members to agree to the settlement. "The votes are there for the settlement toda~ because Chief Gates wants it, Yaroslavsky said. 
An amateur cameraman videotaped King's beating after a traffic stop in suburban Lake View Terrace. The film was 
1

shown on television and led to a 
1

national examination of police 1brutality. ,,
Four police officers have been 1 charged with felonies in the 1 King case. All have pleaded in­, nocent. A grand jury continues 1
,

investigating possible indict­ments against other officers 1,who were on the scene when King was beaten. 
Six potential witnesses questioned in Kennedv estate rape investiaation 
PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) ­Detectives investigating the al­leged rape at the Kennedy es­tate interviewed six potential witnesses Tuesday, and the po­lice chief said the investigation was nearing completion. 
"There are some more wit­nesses scheduled (for inter­views) tomorrow ... then by the end of this week or early next week, that will be the end of the heavy-duty stuff in this investi­gation," Chief Joseph Terlizzese said. 
Police also were awaiting re-
The MCAT is one of several measures used by medical school admissions boards in evaluating applicants. 
University police say 290 exam booklets were taken from the school's testing center sometime between late Satur­day and early Sunday. 

The university was one of 400 that administered the 8 1/2­hour test on Saturday. Univer­sity officials say 262 students took the test in Austin, but no answer sheets were stolen and test-takers will not have to re­peat the exam. 
But the next test may have 
suits from tests being con­ducted at an FBI laboratory in Virginia. Palm Beach County crime lab technicians three weeks ago completed forensics tests on hair and blood samples from the woman and the sus­pect, William Kennedy Smith. 
Police haven't disclosed the results of those tests. 
Smith, 30-year-old nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy, D-Mass., has denied wrongdoing. He has neither confirmed nor denied he had intercourse with the woman, who says she was 

COME LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
t.ft(}ll/V1!/.NJJ $(J,(I(]J(Jttf$ 
*1, 2, and 3 bedroom apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully set on the St. Joseph River 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 6.. 
1671 Riverside Drive 
{3 

233-2212 
been jeopardized by the theft, Mitchell said. 
~ 

"It's impossible to say how this , will compromise the fall test," 1 1
Mitchell said. 
"The last time the test under­went major revisions was in 1977 ," she said. "It has taken several years to develop and a great, great deal of work has gone into developing it." 
The burglars forced open a window and took the exams from a locked storage room, the police report says. Police said they were ~llowing some "good leads" but did not have any suspects. 
raped March 30 at the seaside estate after meeting Smith, his uncle and cousin Patrick Kennedy at a Palm Beach nightspot. 
On advice of his attorneys, Smith has refused to be inter­viewed by police, the chief said, although he did give blood and hair samples. Smith's Miami attorney, Mark Schnapp, said Tuesday he wouldn't comment on any aspects of the lnvestiga­tion. 
Police continue to have "reasonable suspicion that a crime was committed," the 
.,
chief said in an interview. And he doesn't agree with frequent speculation that the case will turn on the victim's word against Smith's. 
"There's always two sides to any story, but there'll be other things," Terlizzese said. "Bruises, other physical evi­dence, witnesses' evidence." 
He said there's evidence "force was used ... but, you have degrees of force." 
He declined to say where the latest witness interviews were being conducted, but said the investigation had been delayed by difficulty identifying and contacting witnesses. 

r 
r 
r 
~ 

THE ACADEMIC CODE OF HONOR: A REPORT TO THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY 
While it is recognized that the faculty has the responsibility to establish academic requirements, it is the responsibility of the community of students and faculty to strive to assume honorable behavior in academic work (The Academic Code of 
34 
2 



6 involving 13 students 

John Coffey,  
Professor Ste  
Kami Benson, Kn  ··~·,1.. r.. ;'!!'...M.!..~.,.,.,,,,,,,,,..,"',...,,,,,."",,,,,,,,..  
Debra Heerensperger,  
Professor Gerald Jones,  nee  
Professor Edward Kline,  Arts and Letters  
Gary Larson, Dillon Hall  
Ed Lavelle, Zahm Hall  

Professor Kevin Misiewicz, College of Business Administration Dr. Raymond Sepeta, Freshman Year of Studies Jay Stone, Fisher Hall Jennifer Switzer. Breen-Phillios Hall Father Oliver F. Williams, C. S. C., Associate Provost 








Viewpoint 
Wednesday, May 1, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •••••••••••••••••••.•..Monica Yant Advertising Manager •••••.Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor •.•••.••••••......Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •••..••• Alissa Murphy Sporte Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ••••••.••...Jay Colucci Accent Editor.•...••..••••••••.•.John OBrien Systems Manager •••••••••••••••.Mark Sloan Photo Editor ..•..•....•••••••••••••••Eric Bailey OTS Director ••••••••••••••••••••.Dan Shinnick Saint Mary'e Edltor .•..••....•. Emily Willen Controller..•.•...•••.••••....•Thomas Thomas 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University or Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression or varying opinions on campus through leners, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Women's Studies Program gives reasons for opposing war 
Editor's note: The following is soldiers and policy makers. But Electricity and potable water food, for the environment, for to survive in war-torn 
a Peace Statement by the women suffer from war just as supplies were destroyed by health programs;· resources of economies. 
Women's Studies Program, men do. Our suffering, our bombs. This has resulted in mind, of energy, of materials, of Women are the garbage col­
Saint Mary's College sisters' suffering, Is simply epidemics of cholera, typhoid money all are turned to the lectors after war. The refuse of 
We, the members of the disregarded. In the media, and diptheria. We think of the enterprise of death. war is wrecked human lives, 
Women's Studies Program, be­civilian casualties are not con­women of Baghdad who face once nurtured by us, now de­
lieve that war, as exemplified by sidered as Important as the loss hauling water from the polluted Fourth, whatever end this stroyed. No territory, no oil, no 
the Middle East Conflict, can of soldiers, planes, tanks and Euphrates, who wake up in the killing produces, women will glory is worth this. We call on 
not now be a recipe for peace. missiles. Non-combatants, morning unable to feed their have nothing to say about the all women of the United States 
We oppose the use of force in primarily women, children and children a clean breakfast, un­concluding international ar­to oppose the use of war as 
this conflict and oppose force in old people, become merely able to wash the dirty diapers, rangements. The end of public acceptable international policy 
general as a tool for furthering "collateral damage" or useful as unable to send their children to war will leave behind private for our country. 
United States interests. Why, as propaganda. school. We mourn for those desolation, increased poverty, 
women. are we oooosed to who have run with their chil­illiteracy, illness, homelessness, laura Halgwood, Women's 
war? War inevitably means disaster dren to bomb shelters, some­starvation and civil unrest. Studies Coordinator 
First, women's labor is de­for civilians: it causes times never to emerge alive. (Long ago, Jane Addams and Ann Clark 
stroyed by war. All over the homelessness, disease and Their husbands, brothers and the Women's International Rosalind Clark 
world women nurture. We care death. The U.S.'s attack on sons are far away, killing, being Committee for Permanent Peace Miriam Cooney 
for and raise children. We feed Baghdad in particular un­killed or taken as prisoners. understood these realities as Kim Flint-Hamilton 
and clothe and house adults. leashed more bombs in one This has always been the expe­they tried to alter the conditions Phyllis Kaminski 
We all spend our lives nourish­week than all the bombs rience of war for women. of the treaty at Versailles in Ann Loux 
ing, teaching, healing and lov­dropped in four years in World Third, war turns resources 1915.) The war against these Corrine McGuigan 
ing the human being whom war War II In Europe and the Pacific which should be spent on en­evils is always waged by women Sandy Mlze 
kills. Theatre. Medical aid in hancing life toward producing in their own families, as they Elisabeth Noel 
Second, during war, attention Baghdad was reduced to the death. Resources for schools, nurse their maimed and shell­Mary Turgl 
Is primarily focused on men as level of Civil War field hospitals. for mental health, for art, for shocked relatives and struggle April 26, 1991 

Student says we should remember Christ's teachings on sexuality 
Dear Editor: with a population increase of 65 tims behind them. it openly. There is no comfort­and on the illicitness of such 
Three cheers for Paul percent, the incidences of rape able middle ground-either we things as pre-and extra-marital 
Corintha in his recent letter to increased 230 percent Christs' loving and coura­are for or against Christ in the sex, homosexual acts, the use of 
The Observer (April 3) on the (including correction for geous and wise and liberating area of sexual morality. It's a artificial birth control, and so 
topic of co-ed dorms. It's nice unreported cases) to 185,000 in teaching is this: ~You have free choice: Christ wanted it forth. Why is this? "Catholic 
to know there Is someone here 1988; births out of wedlock up heard it was said to the an­that way. It's only that once values in higher education" that 
unafraid to call a spade a spade 420 percent to 920,000; divorce cients, 'Thou shalt not commit we've chosen we are not free to do not translate into a very 
and stand up for sane morality. up 212 percent to 1,200,000; adultery.' But I say to you that choose the intrinsic conse­clear and intellectually 
child abuse cases up a anyone who so much as looks quences of our choice. As sophisticated moral theology 
The Bronx cheer for that staggering 2,317 percent to with lust at a woman has al­these recent census bureau doesn't mean a whole lot. 
Ideology which would liberate 2,900,000, not to mention the ready committed adultery with statistics indicate, those who Where are these voices to be 
us by divorcing sex from increase of AIDS victims from 0 her in his heart." So much for think that Christ's teachings on heard when we most need 
authentic, life-long commitment in 1950 to 35,000 in 1988, and those Christians who scoff at sexual self-control can be taken them, especially in this time 
and openness to the the Increase of abortions the idea of occasions of sin in lightly or tinkered with might when there is so much said 
engendering of new human life. following its national co-ed dorms and elsewhere. do well to think again. about "prophetic witness"? 
The purveyors of sexual legalization to 1,600,000. Christ also said: "He who is not Could it be that we are suffering 
~freedom" should take a look Doesn't sound like a problem of with me is against me." Since I know how rare it is these from a massive loss of courage? 
and see the writing on the wall economics to me. Sounds like we're all adults here, and since days for students to have a 
In some recently released U.S. the sexual revolution and recre­we all know which way our clear picture of Christ and his Thomas D. D'Andrea 
Bureau of Census statistics. In ational sex are swindling people culture inclines us, it's ap-Church's teaching on the na­Off-Campus 
the United States between the left and right and leaving a propriate that we make a ture, purpose, and moral con-April 29, 1991 
year 1950 and the year 1988, long, sad trail of innocent vic-choice and be prepared to state sequences of human sexuality, 
DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
50/A/HATHAPP&N«J? t{JHATHAP­FfNW70/rfY f'#?HCTUT­
Tt& VICTORY? 
"'~~Fi::~~~ 

fJURING THt tuAR, fa Klt-UO I()()JXJO IRAQIS. BUT td/3 aJNTRatel? TH/3 MWIA, 50 NOON/3 5AW TH/3 !30/?18S. 
WITH THe KIJRIJS, IT'S A 
PIFF/3RI3NT SITUATION. &VeRY 
!JilBY BURIAL, MAK£S 7Ht 8V8NINGN!fW5,., 
I 

I'M AFRAI!?Wt'R£ GOINS 70 HAve 70 JU5T 7WSH IT ()(fT. AT tc.45TUNT/t tue CAN GtT TH& PICTl/RtS 
BACK. ON {)JR 5/t:Je, 
I 

'l·m more clueless than you are.' 
Rich Caspar Freshman 

Viewpoint

page 10 Wednesday, May 1, 1991 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Faculty senator responds to proposal concerning mothers 
Dear Editor: 

f 
Professor Douglas Kmiec wrote a provocative and chal­lenging letter to The Observer (April 22) criticizing the Faculty Senate for not discussing a proposal he sent to the Senate that he contends was intended to honor mothers at home raising and nurturing children. As a faculty senator and as a 
member of the subcommittee

r 
that carefully considered his

r 
proposals, I do not believe

r 
honoring mothers working at home was the point of the pro­posal. Professor Kmiec's protestations are to the con­trary. Had that really been the purpose, why does his letter fo­cus on criticism of the Faculty Senate rather than focusing on his proposal? 
Let me begin by stating pro­

r 
fessor Kmiec's proposal, with­

r 
out the "whereas's": 

r 
r Now, therefore, the Faculty ,.. Senate of the University of 
,.. 
Notre Dame makes the follow­

,.. 
ing recommendations to the 

,.. board of trustees and the ap­
r propriate university officers: 
r •in setting the annual com­
r pensation of faculty and staff,
r 
the university

r 
award an additional and signif­~ icant per child stipend to any married faculty or staff member 
r 
r whose family, in the previous 
r academic year, included a 
r "mother who was at home and not employed for compensa­tion" with children under 18 years of age; 
•in setting benefits policy, the university amend the faculty handbook to provide a tuition remission benefit of four un­dergraduate years ... to the wife of a faculty or staff member

~ 
who served as a mother at 

r home and not employed for 
r compensation throughout the 
r period in which there were children in the family under 12 years of age; 
r 
~ 
•in extending invitations for university programs, com­
mencement speakers, honorary degrees, and especially the Laetare Medal, the University include women who have de­voted their lives to their chil­dren as a mother at home and not employed for compensation; and 


•in its participation in pub­lic debate, the university vigor­ously urge the Congress of the United States to amend the In­ternal Revenue Code to provide families where there is a mother at home and not employed for compensation with children under 18 years of age: (a) a 'flex dollar' benefit. .. for school tuition, and (b) an increase in the value of the personal exemption for children." 
This proposal, the accompa­nying explanation and professor Kmiec's letter are at best disingenuous. Why? Professor Kmiec states in his letter, "When the resolution was brought to the attention of the full Faculty Senate, it was not permitted discussion." Why was it not discussed? Very simply, Professor Kmiec and his co-signers could not find a single senator willing to second the motion. Perhaps Professor 


Criticism of Dome cover insulted efforts of staff 
Dear Editor, 
This is in response to the two articles submitted about the 1991 Dome that appeared in the The Observer on April 29. 
First of all, there is a great amount of material covered on the 352 pages of the yearbook. We desperately try to include as many groups as possible but unfortunately, things get over­looked. I regret that Old Col­lege was not included in this year's book. 
Secondly, I have been on the yearbook staff since I came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1988. During the three years I have been on the staff, the goal has always been to produce a book that the Notre Dame student body will enjoy. Every editorial decision that I have ever had to make has been met with the question, "Will they like it?" 
This year I made one of those decisions. I decided to change the look of the cover. This was undoubtedly one of the toughest decisions I faced because contrary to the saying, people do judge a book by it's cover. 
I hoped that the Notre Dame student body would support the decisions made by our staff, and 1 am nroud of the work that we 
put into the book. I am proud of the cover. I am sorry that some students feel the cover is "tacky" and embarrassing. I had hoped that the student body was ready for a change, not a trendy jump but a small change. Tradition was always a concern. That's precisely why we chose the leprechaun as the subject of the design and used the school colors of blue, green and gold. I had hoped that they could recognize the long hours of work and effort that we put into it. Work that in the end is for the benefit of the entire student body. 
Everyone is entitled to an opinion, and we did not expect to please all students. However, I do not think that these two students can express the feelings of all seniors, because I have received a great amount of positive feedback from students, including seniors. 
Expressing dislike is one thing, but calling the 1991 Dome tacky and embarrassing is an insult to our staff, given the tremendous amount of work put into this yearbook. 
Madeleine Castellinl Editor-In-Chief, Dome April 29, 1991 
Kmiec should ask himself why his argument and his logic are so weak or so ineffectual that no one was willing to second the motion. 
Some, like Professor Rice, a co-signer of the motion, may contend that a second was not forthcoming because the motion was not "politically correct." That logic provides a convenient excuse but misses the point entirely. Most sena­tors, I believe, will state exactly what they believe without re­gard for political correctness. With no disrespect intended, the Faculty Senate often is a disputatious and fractious crew. From my perspective, this pro­posal and Rice's letter both have the same purpolje, that is, to set and to enforce a different set of standards for political correctness. I want no part of any set of standards for political correctness and I believe most faculty senators share that view. 
Professor Kmiec's letter quotes Pope John Paul II: "The Mentality which honors women more for their work outside the home than for their work within the family must be overcome." 
Professor Kmiec neglects to mention the citation of Congresswoman Boggs, this year's Laetare Medal, for her work as a mother. Professor Kmiec also neglects to mention the breadth of seminars in the "Year of Women" that discuss the same issue. Perhaps more importantly, Kmiec neglects to mention the historical context of this discussion. 
For years women have been expected to remain in the home as mothers. Women who worked outside the home endured years of discrimination and often have been funneled into what economists label the "secondary labor market." My impression of the Year of Women is that it is in part to 
celebrate all the opportunmes available to women in U.S. society, rather than to restrict them to work in the home or to force them into the labor market. The competition that has recently emerged is not be­tween "mothers and women employed outside the home," as Kmiec states. Rather, as any introductory economics student knows, it is increasingly be­tween men and women in the 



"· 

~ 

f SOt:.IOL.OGII 
_.,.t.,.m~~ 
b~  C)..O!>~ \.15.'1'1C~  
,. 0\J c.!.~ ....  C'#~ft.. 0 A,,. . .,t.  
"6.. fun S\-.  
f>\"-St-.  
~c... A"" S+.  
S\V... ~o\-.  
~\I~·  St.  
Mt.. Afll St.  

labor market. 
Let me conclude with two points about the proposed mo­tion. First, Section 1, given Pope John Paul II's quote that "society must be structured in such a way that wives and mothers are not in practice compelled to work outside the home," suggests that this University pays a wage that forces mothers into the labor force. Be Real! The six Notre Dame faculty who co-signed the motion are three full professors and three chair professors of Law. Notre Dame faculty are well above the ranks of the working poor, and the co-sig­nors all likely are in the top five percent of the income distribu­tion of arguably the richest na­tion in the world. 
Second, Professor Kmiec and his co-signers appear to me either uninformed or willing to sacrifice some of the quality of this institution in pursuit of their vision of political cor­rectness. Their proposals increase rather than decrease the tension between working in the home and working outside. Their proposals appear to me to signal, perhaps Kmiec would argue unwittingly, that a woman's place is exclusively in the home. And their proposals would place Notre Dame squarely at the head of a political movement away from the principle of payment for the work performed rather than pay based on age, sex, race or employment status of spouse. 
The Faculty Senate did not consider the proposal "honoring mothers working at home," in 
my estimation, not because it deemed that an unworthy pro­posal, but rather because this proposal attempts to further only a small minority's political agenda. 
Richard G. Sheehan Department of Finance and Business Economics April 25, 1991 
• 
~ 
• 

er quest1ons program 
Dear Editor: 
I just spent a semester in a course that is cross-listed in the African American Studies Program. Quite frankly, I haven't the foggiest idea why this is so, since the amount of material that has to do with Afro-Americans is minimal. A few minutes of one movie did picture black people harvesting peanuts, and one of the lectures was on ethnic conflict, but the course focuses little on Africans and not at all on Americans. I spent a whole semester in a course that is cross-listed in the African American Studies Program, and it is rather important for me to find out why this is so, because the course is offered again next semester, and because next semester I will again be teaching it. 
To be honest, I did get a letter in the fall, a request from the African American Studies Program to describe the African American content of my course. But I threw that letter away thinking they were asking about a course I taught the previous semester, also cross-listed, also a surprise. I just spent a semester in a course that is cross-listed in the African American Studies Program ... no, I have taught four semesters in courses cross-listed in the African American or Black Studies Program, and I have never met those who run it, have never had a single communication as to what the program is all about, and have never been interviewed to see if I was qualified to teach in it. am a teacher in the African American Studies Program, and I wonder why this is so. 
Ronald Vander Grlend Teaching Assistant Department of Sociology, April 28, 1991 

.....

Viewpoint
Wednesday, May 1, 1991 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

feminist ectives 
Dear Editor: result of free choice, but of the 
This letter is prompted by Ms. lack of "meaningful" choice. Hodgin's' response (The Women must free themselves Observer, April 26) to Professor from oppressive family roles. Kmiec's suggestion which "Free love" and career bring appeared previously in The autonomy and self-realization, Observer. As I read it, the ultimate goal. Professor Kmiec suggested that Notre Dame recognize the con­Lip service is paid to the tribution which their employ­women at home, but at the ees' non-working spouses make same time, no substantive pro­to the common good. They posals are made to promote could do so by awarding their interests or address their stipends to non-working concerns. Note for instance spouses. Professor Kmiec sug­how Ms. Hodgins, in one full gested that to adopt such a parenthetical, dismisses count­policy during Notre Dame's less personal choices which Year of Women would be par­lesser intellects might think de­ticularly appropriate, since serve a more sophisticated women would comprise the vast treatment. Or consider when majority of those rewarded by was the last time NOW spoke this program at present. Ms. out concerning these women. Hodgins' thoughtful response, By neglecting the concerns of and the generally negative mothers in the home, feminists 
•I 
•
•
•
•
' 
' j 
A 
~ 
•
A 
reaction have prompted me to turn their backs on many women seems oppressive and The women~ movement has stitutional day care over those express my views. women who, In turn, have counterproductive. She refuses achieved much good, not the which choose to use institu­turned their backs on feminism. to recognize that most women least of which is to add the tional day care over those 
I must confess I have some continue to decide that raising greater dignity of enhanced free which choose to have a spouse difficulty In understanding Ms. On the other hand, many children is an intrinsically choice to women who do choose stay at home. There are manyHodgin's feminist women feel this first sort of rewarding and fulfilling task. to remain at home to raise other examples. perspective-or at least how it feminism is simply not enough. Oddly, at this point she closes children. I also recognize that Whether this Imbalance addresses the concerns of many That is, the exaltation of career­her eyes to the beneficial effects whenever any social program should be addressed by private women. I am certain that Ms. fulfillment and neglect of these women would now seeks to promote the common initiatives such as that proposed Hodgins does not respect motherhood is a threat and ef­receive, and one can only be­good by giving preferential by Professor Kmiec, and Roman Catholic social teaching fort to fit women into a man's lieve she does this in light of her treatment to certain groups the whether the common good is on the role of the family in world, rather than an effort to ideological purpose. In effect, decision is always a difficult best served by recognizing the modern society. Perhaps this reshape society in ways that not Ms. Hodgins refuses to one. Many such policies are contributions of non-working explains her refusal to address only open avenues of op­acknowledge the validity of this now in place and often, as here, spouses is a question that de­Professor Kmiec's proposals in portunity outside the family, but choice for she will not have it they provoke a visceral serves thoughtful consideration, a substantive way. However, I also emphasize the dignity of recognized or promoted. response. Likewise, the ques­not bombast. Reasonable did expect she would be well traditional female Instead these resources should tion of whether governmental persons must decide whether acquainted with feminist theory. roles-particularly the nurture be directed towards creating or private initiatives which stay-at-home spouses and their Unfortunately, It seems even of children. This second women more compatible with promote the exercise of one families sacrifice enhanced in­here Ms. hodglns' is ill-in­feminist perspective leaves her procrustean vision. right (here to remain at home to come to achieve goals for which formed, for It is clear that women free to choose roles in Lip service aside, the message raise children) restrain the all society receives benefits in women as a whole, and femi­the world at large or to choose is "either enter the career track exercise of other ril!hts (here terms of physically and emo­nists In particular, are now roles within the family. or you don't merit the sort of the right to work) is always tionally healthier, better edu­sharply divided over proposals I believe these differing per­recognition Professor Kmiec controversial. Generally cated and more productive such as those offered by spectives in the women's proposes." For many women speaking, Americans have not children who, as adults, place Professor Kmiec. movement help illuminate the Ms. Hodgins' choice, recogni­regarded such programs as less demands on the social wel­
If Ms. Hodgins did understand dialogue between Professor tion outside the family or no discriminatory. fare safety net. tho modern feminist movement, Kmiec and Ms. Hodgins. I must recognition at all, represents a While reasonable persons she would address frankly, I confess however that it also meaningless choice, not a In this regard, it is interesting may differ on this point it is would hope, the differing views seems to reveal a certain ten­meaningful one. Perhaps Ms. to note that current federal certain that Ms. Hodgins' which women have on its dentiousness on Ms. Hodgins' Hodgins should have greater policy seems to favor one model program leaves little room for appropriate goals. At the risk part. Ms. Hodgins emphasizes respect for the intellect and will of the family over others. For the type of family to which most of complicating Ms. Hodgin's that the people who will be rec­of other women. Perhaps she example, the phaseout of per­Americans seem committed. concise presentation of the ognized at present by Professor should address the concerns of sonal deductions for married This saddens me, but I have at feminist position, it seems more Kmiec's proposal will be over­all women, not simply those in­couples filing jointly with in­least attempted to address their accurate to say there are at whelmingly women. Ms. terests she deems legitimate. come over $32,450 favors argument forthrightly, without least two major women's Hodgins believes this is against I believe it is important for childless couples over those name-calling, a courtesy she perspectives. One is that which the interests of women, because everyone to recognize that the with children, and undermines was unwilling to extend to Ms. Hodgins' shares and they are not home as a result of women's movement has had the fundamental principle that Professor Kmiec. presented so masterfully. Often "meaningful" choice, and this objectives and successes much ability to pay is the criterion for these feminists portray the policy will simply perpetuate broader than those encom­taxation in America. Also, the Cristina Barone Gillen decision to marry and stay at their serfdom. passed by Ms. Hodgins' limited child care tax credit favors M.A. History, class of '89 home raising children not as a Yet Ms. Hodgins' program for and embittered perspective. families which choose to use in-April 25, 1991 

Student speculates about Rocket's draft decision 
Dear Editor:  still is not a polished receiver.  It  "gentlemans' agreement" with  on the merits of the city of  Cleveland.  Tim Brown and  
In form only, the events of this  is difficult to  have  a  major  Bruce McNall that would allow  Toronto.  Steve Beuerlein play for the  
past weekend suggest that Hocket Ismail turned down the NFL for a bigger payday with Bruce McNall and the Canadian Football League. I had mixed feelings on his decision initially.  impact in this situation. He simply would not have gotten his hands on the ball enough. Many people have argued that Rocket could have made more money in endorsements in the  him to leave the contract after one year if Mbetter opportuni­ties" came up. Further provok­ing my interest was the fact that the Los Angeles Raiders drafted Rocket in the third round of the  Let's look at the benefits to each party if there was indeed a three way deal. Bruce McNall, a shrewd businessman, owns the Toronto Argonauts. The CFL is void of a TV contract and  Raiders. If AI Davis paid Bruce McNall under the table to sign Rocket and then let him go after one year, each party would come out smelling like roses. Bruce  
On one hand, l was disap­pointed that l would not get a chance to see him display his talents in the NFL each week­end next year. However, in ex­ United States than he was paid by Bruce McNall. While this may be true, in light of the per­ceived failure I spoke of and the possibility of injury (see Bo  NFL draft, quite high for someone with a four year deal somewhere else. (NFL draft rights expire after four years). Is it possible that this whole  will fail if it doesn't get one soon. Rocket is his best chance to save the league before he takes a financial bath. AI Davis, like all NFL owners,  McNall would get a TV contract for his league without putting up much money. AI Davis would get Rocket Ismail without giving up any players or draft  - 
amining the decision from his standpoint, I felt Is was very wise for the following reasons. The CFL has lower quality  Jackson), all those endorse­ments could disappear in a hurry. Finally, the CFL is a league in  thing was a setup, designed to circumvent the NFL draft system?  covets Rocket Ismail, realizing how productive he would be on a good team. However, he does not have the number one pick  choices. Rocket could play for the team of his choice, enhance his chances to be a "perceived success" and get money up  
players and a wider field. Hocket is going to be an un­stoppable offensive weapon un­der these conditions. In con­trast, Rocket would most likely be perceived as a failure in the NFL. Being such a high draft choice would put unfair pres­sure on him to turn around a franchise. Most experts agree that Hocket could not handle  a tenuous position right now. It has no TV contract and de­clining attendance. It is entirely possible that the league will fail, Rocket will get his money, and move on to the NFL a richer man (see Herschel Walker). Thus, before thinking about it any further, I felt Rocket had made a very prudent decision. However, let me toss around a  Let's prove a bit further. AI Davis, a known shister, owns the Los Angeles Raiders. Bruce McNall also owns the Los Angeles Kings. Both men are big Mplayers" in L.A. and surely know each other. Rocket re­portedly was in Los Angeles shopping with Bruce McNall in the days prior to the draft and will get a condo in L.A. as part  and thinks the cost of trading for this pick is too high. Money is not an issue for Mr. Davis, who wants badly to field a championship team. He Is tired of being overshadowed by the San Francisco 49ers. Rocket Ismail realizes the risks involved in playing for a weak NFL team. He may get hurt or be perceived as a failure  front and down the line in endorsements. If this did in fact happen, was It ethical? After all, we are at Notre Dame. And what ramifi­cations will his have, both le­gally and for future NFL drafts? That remains to be seen. If my speculation is correct, I'm sure we'll hear more in the coming wee~s.  
the constant pounding at run­ning back in the NFL. Therefore, he Is projected as a wide receiver/kick returner and  few more ideas that might make Rocket seem like a genius. First of all, it was reported yesterday that Rocket had a  of the contract with the Toronto Argonauts. Kind of strange when Mr. McNall was supposedly trying to sell Rocket  if does not turn around a weak franchise. Furthermore, he does not particularly want to play in New England, Dallas or  Russ Chandler OH-campus April 25, 1991  



Accent 
page 12 Wednesday, May 1, 1991 
Gernes excels in writing, teaching 
By JIM BONALSKY dealing with Accent Writer personal experi­ences, others not. 
Did you ever wonder what your The "Mutes of professors do after class? Why is it so Sleepy Eye," darn hard to get a hold of them when another poetry you need to explain an absence or plead collection, deals I for a paper extension? with three deaf I Some of them remain engrossed in the people and their
l 
piles of papers they have to correct experiences.
l 
while others are purposely elusive in While the charac­~ ~ order to avoid the repetitive whining of ters in the poems I students asking for a break. are fictional, they A select few, however, actually do are based upon more than just teach. Amazingly, some actual experiences. professors do things other than watch "I worked with Public Television in hopes of finding and taught deaf some obscure fact that they can use to students at one compliment the next day's lecture in a time," Gernes sentence that begins with "Interestingly explains, "and enough ... " their actions and 
Professor Sonia Gernes is one of those stories are the individuals who has another life apart foundations of this from teaching. Her alter ego is a writer. collection." 
Gernes has been a professor at Notre Personal Dame since 1975. She has taught a wide experiences are array of English classes including also the American Literature, Gender Studies, cornerstone of Creative Writing, and American Women "Different Stars," Writers. When not in class, she spends one of the four her time putting out one novel and a few sections in poetry collections. Gernes took the 90-"Women at 40." In 91 school year off in order to write her this section, second novel, which is as of yet Gernes's poems unfmished. 
deal with Maori Folklore. "The Way to St. lves,w was published in 1982. "I spent 1986
'Professor Sonia Gernes is also deal with that issue. material. I usually know what form it
teaching in New Zealand and was 
"I enjoy researching my family and will be when I start to think about the
one of those individuals fascinated with the Maori, or native 
writing about it. In fact, I am hoping to story I want to tell. A poetic story in myPolynesian, legends that exist there, so I
who has another life apart develop a 400 level class named mind will just not come across the right
wrote about them." 
from teaching. Her alter "Writing the Family" which will do just way in essay form." 
Currently, Gernes is researching and that. The students will write fiction Gernes writes for the enjoyment ofego is writer.' writing a book which will deal with the using circumstances and situations from writing and not because she wants to getresearch and stories of one branch of their own past." published, which seems to be importantHer first novel, titled "The Way to St. her family. Her summer was spent in to many college professors. 
Ives", was published by Charles genealogical libraries in Wisconsin and "I think it is important for professorsScribners and Sons in 1982. This book was able to trace her roots back to 1856. 'Most college professors to research/publish in their field, but it is deals with the story of a mid-life woman She then traveled to Germany and probably feel some more important for them to be goodwho had been domineered and sheltered continued to follow her lineage. Do not 
pressure or teachers. Most college professors
by her mother all her life. When her expect her to tell you anymore about the 
probably feel some pressure or
mother dies when she is forty, for the book because she will refuse. Gernes 'encouragement' to publish 'encouragement' to publish something, first time in her life she is faced with has a rule never to tell anyone what her something, but I would be but I would be doing this anyway." 
opportunity and the trials and book is about before it is written Gernes offered advice to aspiring
tribulations of life. because she feels if she tells the story to doing this anyway.' 
writers. "If you want to write, you mustOne of her poetry collections is called someone, then it has already been told read a great deal in the genre you are"Women at 40," which is about, you and there is no reason to write it down It is interesting to note that while interested in, " she said. "You must alsoguessed it, middle-aged women. This anymore. Gernes writes in different genres, she write and get feedback to see if what youmight lead one to beli!lve that Gernes Writing about famil~ history is not has no favorite. In fact, she does not want to say in your mind gets across onfocuses on this subject in particular; unfamiliar to Gernes. The "Family pick what form in which she will write; paper. That's the beauty and impor­however, this is not the case. She History" section of "Women at 40" and the story does. 
tance of a creative writing class." 
actually writes on several topics, some "Brief lives," another poetry collection, "The form I write in depends on the 
Minor in justice education prepares students 
By HEATHER RAKOCZY Saint Mary's program provides students with an altruistic hopes in which one party was the active Accent Writer opportunity to develop theories through practice. "savior" and the other was the passive "saved." By Whether the students interact with a homeless shelter virtue of their nature, such programs make one group 
What is your major? Philosophy? Business? or a center for the elderly, the goal remains fiXated. superior and essentially strip the other of human Sociology? Political Science? Religious studies? Experience is key. dignity. Contrary to popular opinion, deciding a major is not Education and experience complete only a half-circle The "new attitude" is one of collaboration. The long­the long-awaited panacea for most college students. in the four-point plan. Essential to the learning process term goal is to develop a shift in attitude. "Help them 
What will you do with your major? That is the is reflection groups as a means of relatin 
the theory to help themselves" must become an a part of the past. question. 
Bellalta best explained the desired attitude as that of Is it possible that a minor could alleviate some 
"a team." The team, however, consists of two parties anxiety-ridden aspirations about the future? Having 
which ideally must function as a corporate whole. Both recently celebrated its ten-year anniversary at Saint 
parties must maintain "generic" identities without one Mary's, one minor program has proven successful. 
group superior to the other. Justice education prepares students to do. 
The successful outreach programs utilize everyone's Justice education does not exist solely within its own 
abilities to educate each other. The target groups learn 
-
from the students as the students learn from the minor simply because justice is not exclusive to any 
department. It is designed as an inter-disciplinary 
groups. This symbiotic relationship is essential to the one discipline. Set up as an "infusion model," justice 
success of the program. education permeates several disciplines to ideally 
Bellalta's analogy summarizes the structure of the integrate all relevant courses. outreach programs: "All people involved are like 
The possible included disciplines are extensive, and members of one body. One needs all of its members to the practical opportunities are limitless. For example, function most effectively." She also stresses the justice education may be an integral part of sociology Christian teaching that everyone has gifts. Some and business as readily as it is related to philosophy possess gifts that others do not, but everyone is a and government. unique contributing individual. 
On a pragmatic level, the concepts learned in the Justice education has been Saint Mary's attempt at classroom may be incorporated in "outreach" (service) combining classroom education with a practical service programs. This inter-disciplinary minor is essentially a component. Why? Justice education provides students
5.S.

microcosm mirroring a society in which justice is not with an opportunity to decide if a commitment to 
an experience. Thus, the education, exuerience, and
exclusive to any one field or career. justice is something they would like to fulfill on a 
reflection foster commitment, the last (but certainly not 
"Education. Experience. Reflection. Commitment." permanent basis. 
the least important) element oftpe program.
According to Esmee Bellalta, justice education coordinator, these four call words are key in the cyclic This cyclic education based in and out of the For ten years this commitment to justice has been method of learning within the minor. classroom is designed to implement a new attitude thriving and improving. If the program itself is not an 
She reiterates to her students the importance of towards justice through outreach programs. These option for you, consider a commitment to its ideals. going one step beyond the basic theoretical approach. programs are breaking away from formerly held " ... All members of one body." 

Accent 
Wednesday, May 1, 1991 page 13 
Duarte calls attention to El Salvador 
By JOHN FISCHER Accent Writer 
In El Salvador, there is poverty without relief, warfare without discretion, and a Church presence lacking sev­eral Jesuit priests who have been killed since fighting began in 1979. 
Ruben Duarte, a graduate student In the government de­partment at Notre Dame and alternately a resident of the United States and El Salvador, has seen the fighting and civil rights violations from several different vantage points in the two countries. 
Duarte, nephew of former Salvadoran president Napoleon Duarte, has watched his native country decline from the beautiful place he remembers it as a child growing up in the country's second city to the battleground between the gov­ernment and rebel forces that it is today. The changing condi­tions in the world as a whole and in Central America specifi­cally could bode well for his country, however. 
Two years after he left El Salvador at age 17 to attend Louisiana State University (LSU), war broke out between government forces and the Frente Farabundo Marti Para La Liberacion Nacional (FMLN), a leftist group seeking to gain control. 
The situation, involving United States and Soviet sale of military hardware to the right 

Freshman initiation is finall 
and left, respectively, and the murder of Jesuit missionaries in El Salvador, has been well publicized and documented in the United States press since that time. 
Duarte witnessed the political and military atmosphere first­hand upon his graduation from LSU with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering. Unable to continue residing and working in the United States due to the expiration of his visa, he landed employment with a sugar refinery in the Salvadoran countryside. 
His memories of the time he spent there, from 1982 to 1984, were dominated by the unfath­omable changes that had taken place since he had left in peacetime four years earlier. 
He describes those years as " ... scary. I wouldn't do it again." He was back in 1986, however, when a year spent in Haiti ended with the coup of Baby Doc Duvalier and the sub­sequent problems suffered by the business that employed him. 
Also at that time his family in El Salvador needed his financial support due to his father's death. This situation continued until 1989, when he found the resources to attend graduate school at Notre Dame. 
Meanwhile, the political situa­tion was shifting and trans­forming. Napoleon Duarte as­cended to the presidency, and, after failed negotiations with the FMLN, was forced to con­tinue the war with the support 
I reached for a glass and it slipped. I lunged for it. The bottom of my tray, as usual, was slick with water. It slipped. My plate of "Bkd Parmesan Chix Breast" slid into my Jell-0. The Jell-0 fell. I lunged again. My glass smashed on my tray. The whole tray flipped over and crashed. Some guys who were watching this whole acrobatic stunt stood up and pointed. Half the dining hall snickered, and the rest went right ahead and laughed out loud. I bailed. 
As I ate at the other end of North Dining Hall a while later, I realized I hadn't really felt like a freshman for a while. It had been a long time since I finished my first college paper, at four in the morning in LaFortune, and been horrified that the computer lab was nearly full when I left. I had experienced a South Bend winter. I had survived room picks. And now that I had completed the "spill a four course meal while a large part of the female portion of the undergraduate body looks on and decides you're a complete clod" ritual, my initiation was complete. Even though finals were still a week away, I wasn't a freshman any longer. 
The implications were stag­gering. I had eaten almost 300 meals at the dining hall and paid for 640. I only had to do one more load in college before I would have laundry service. I would never have to take Intro to Psychology again. 
I felt old as I thought about how much had happened in just one year. In four years of high school, I wasn't assigned as much homework as I had blown off during the past two semesters, to say nothing of the mountains I actually completed. 
Chuck Young Fresh Perspective 
Our bookstore team, The Carolina Connection, almost made the round of 64. The team that beat us had custom made T-Shirts that said "The Apocalypse and the Four Horsemen," which I pegged as a bad omen right off. The Apocalypse turned out to be my greatest nightmare in high tops. Next year, we'll start pressing at the half. Sooner, if they have uniforms. 
The North Stars-The North Stars-beat St. Louis, the num­ber two team in the NHL, after crushing the Blackhawks, the number one team in the NHL. 
Let's see, there was a major war, Mill! Vanilli and Vanilla Ice are finally out, I saw Paul Simon live, and I switched ma­jor intents seven times, only to end up undecided. It really isn't fair. High school seemed so long. Junior high seemed like it lasted forever. Everything goes so fast here. The courses. The punt returners. Time. 
I watched TV yesterday for the first time in five weeks. My favorite show in high school, "The Wonder Years," was on. It turns out Winnie, who was just entering junior high the last time I tuned in to the show, is now dating a junior in high school. That was just too much. "Like grains of sand in an hour glass, these are the days of our 
lives." 
New experiences are the greatest thing about college. Watching the Irish destroy Michigan again next year will be great, but I'll remember this 
Ruben Duarte 
of the United States. With deaths hovering around 70,000, many were critical of the gov­ernment and sympathy for the FMLN was relatively strong. 
The Jesuits at that time played a larger political role than they currently do. They were directly involved in the ne­gotiations, and their official position tended more toward the FMLN. Since Duarte lost power, however, the Jesuits have been more sympathetic to the new government, hoping to come to a peace through nego­tiation. 
The FMLN, however, were dissatisfied with the new regime, and as recently as November of 1989 launched a massive offensive, during which several Jesuit priests were murdered in a highly publicized incident. 
At this approximate time, the United States and the Soviet Union were altering their poli­cies toward Central America. With rapid changes sweeping Eastern Europe and elsewhere in the world, the Soviets shifted their policy from military sup­port to helping the FMLN gain power through legitimate means. 
The United States, responding to the FMLN's latest offensive, the new Soviet attitudes, and the new regime in El Salvador, developed an altered policy that was at once supportive of the government and malleable in case the government did not meet certain requirements. 
One of these requirements was that the Salvadoran gov­ernment apprehend the perpe­trator of the Jesuit murders by October 1991 or lose all mili­tary aid. The death of United States Marines at the hands of the FMLN convinced the U.S. government to continue some sort of military aid, according to Duarte. 
Currently the FMLN's goals are not as clear as they used to be. No longer are they looking to gain governmental control, but to have increased govern­mental representation. They also want some military units to transfer over to civilian control. 
Duarte, a graduate student here on a Fulbright scholarship since 1989, sees a tremendous amount of work to be done in El Salvador, politically and socially, yet he has hope that the current possibilities for peace will pan out. 
"Peace is not only an absence of war," he warns. "It is a free­dom from poverty and human rights violations." The situation of the poor is atrocious in El Salvador, he says, because there are no programs or mechanisms, as in the United States, to assist the poverty­stricken, which comprise 40 percent of the population. In the frenzy of the war, human rights have also been gratuitously abused. 
In addition, the FMLN contin­ues to kill civilians in the bat­tles, and the government has executed real and purported "leftists." 
To help the people of El Sal­vador, Duarte plans to work with Senator Hichard Lugar (R­Indiana), chairman of the Sen­ate Foreign Affairs Committee, in upcoming months. In the long term, Duarte has several options in his quest to bring the problems to the attention of the United States government and to bring about peace in his land. He is considering teaching in the United States or being a consultant to influence U.S. policy makers to help the peace process. 
Duarte urges the Notre Dame community to use channels such as the Peace Institute, the government department, and the presence of the Catholic Church, to keep informed about the situation and assist In its amelioration. 

over 
r---------~~--~--~--------------~ 
year's game until I die. Hope­fully longer. When you go to a home game, or go to an SYR, or go home on vacation, or sleep through a test, or do any­thing else for the first time, it gives you a special appreciation for it. "Rocky V" just wasn't the same, you know? 
When I was a little kid, I used to love playing Pac Man, and I annoyed my parents with re­quests for quarters until they bought me an Atari. Before then, I used to try and figure out how much it would cost for me to play games all day. I was kind of like an ex-smoker who figures out how much money he's saving every day by not buying cigarettes. When I was eight I excelled at Pac Man, and I could make a game last ten minutes, but I averaged about 
2.54 minutes per game. At that rate, fulfilling my dream of be­coming a full-time arcader would have required me to play 200 games a day, or about 6000 games a month. Over a period of eight months, I would need enough quarters to play around 48,000 games, which would cost $12,000, or a year's tuition at Notre Dame. 
It never occurred to me that I might want to keep going after a year. A year was just too long. I mean, it was forever. I'd practically have a driver's license. Now, suddenly, I'm fin­ishing my freshman year in col­lege. The eight-year old in me is shocked. It will be fun to do it all over three more times but, wow, I'll be doinl! it over. 
Of course, it's not quite over yet. I've still got to cope with summer storage, which I hear is a complete nightmare, com­parable only to room picks. For some reason, I think I'll enjoy it. 

-
-
The Observer accepts classified& every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. a1 the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. a1 the Saint Mary"s office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classlieds Is 3p.m. All class"leds 
Classifieds 
ITlJSt be prepaid. The charge Is 2 cents per character per day, Including all spaces. 
Need Roomate  TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  Desperately need graduation  MOVING TO THE TWIN CITIES?  
NOTICES  ·summer; Year $200.00 Mo.  For Summer lease Call Jeff at 1615 or 1612  tickets-Julie X2950  CONGRATULATIONS ON GRADUATION MILLE Rill  I need a roommate for the summer. Call Kim X2597  
Call Lena  love, kristen  
TYPING AVAILABLE  #3517  MOVE IN MAY 20  I NEED ONLY ONE TICKET FOR  •••••••••JANET···--·•••  Top 10 Siegfried 2A Quotes  
287-4082  Turtle Creek Townhouse  GRADUATION-PLEASE HELP  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  1 0 What I want is what wants me ..  
WANTED: Need 1 or 2 (prefer 2)  for summer sublet.  CALL BETHE 288-0597  HAPPY GRATUATION  but what wants me I usually don't  
Resumes....Professional quality  people to oocupy a Turtle Creek  Call283-1636  and  want.  
272-5667. (Tom Williams)  Apt. for summer. More affordable  HAPPY WEDDING !Ill  9 Boys love mel  
than a townhouse. Call Jim or John  Furnished Summer Apt  1-way train tckt. S.Bend­ (stay away from hard alcohol  8 Aerobics a Neg. Chunkies  
$$$ for books 10-4:30 M-Sat.reg.  X1177.  2 Bed. Call273-1747  Aibany, NY &pts. btwn. May 10  during this extremely busy month  7 This is Labille ....  
hours 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 233-2342  WANTED: USED VAN  STUDIO APARTMENTS  Cheap! Nat. 287-5003. -------:  foryoul) -satan  6 I would be sooo starving 5 The Griff don't boogie  
corner of ND Ave. & Howard  In Decent Condition Preferably CheapIll  1/2 MILE FROM CAMPUS $250-285  PERSONAL  4 Phenomenial ...What's worse than ...?  
STUDENTS: RUNNING OUT OF  Call 283-4206  CALL 2888595  The words were few  3 You always misquote the Grifter  
TIME?  leave name,#,$  and simple, and the bloom,  2 We hooked, we talked, we're  
LASER QUALITY TERM  SUMMER HOUSING  HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS  Spring's gift before my own;  friends  
PAPERS/REPORTS. QUICK  -3 br home  SUMMER? Jet there with  yet your smile  1 No man's gonna soil my dove  
TURNAROUND.  -$153/moJperson+util.  AIRHITCH (r) for $229 from the  has rewarded me  You girls are THE BEST. So glad  
-CINCINNATI-CINCINNATI­ -turn washer-dryer  Midwest, $160 from the East Coast.  as though one were a volume,  we got "stuck" in 2A I  
MAILBOXES  IF YOU'RE GOING ANYWHERE  microwave  (As reported in NY Times and Lets  and the other  
277-6245.  NEAR CINCINNATI THIS WEEK­END, AND CAN TAKE A PASSEN­ -5 min. from campus & stores -safe neighborhood  Go!) AIRHITCH (r) 212-864-2000  a field of roses. M.  Thank you Lunchmeat, Brett, and Livy for all your help yesterday.  
TYPING term  GER, PLEASE CALL KRISTEN@  HELP ME  
papers/reports/letters/resumes. Pick  283-2927 ASAP  282-2377 (Rich)  NEED NEED NEED NEED NEED  Dear Jenny D.,  
up & delivery available. 277-5134  KOONTZ HOUSE BED &  I need 2 graduation tickets. Please  
Cathy  ··cASTLE PT THIS SUMMER!!!"•  BREAKFAST WEEKEND  help. Call Brian at 288-9147.  What did you think of the play?  
Need 1 person to share  GETAWAY.  
TYPING: Fast and Accurate!  WONDERFUL3 bed w/loft Apt  23 miles south of campus on  The Pittsburgh Club will be  Dear Our Favorite OBSERVER­ 
Call Jannell: Days 255-0022; Evenings 684-7507.  $350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL  ONLY $180 mo. Call ASAP! 273-9224  Koontz Lake. 586-7090.  sponsoring a luggage truck back to Pitt. The truck will  country music listener-systems boy,  
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE  load Friday, May 10. The  We missed you very much last  
THE PmSBURGH CLUB WILL  NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242  3 to 4 bedroom furnished home for  I got it.  pickup times will be:  night.  
BE SPONSORING A LUGGAGE TRUCK BACK TO Pm. The truck will load on Friday, May 10. Pickups will be 11 -12:30 at the Bookstore 1 -2:30 on Stepan Courts The truck will empty Sunday  EXTENSION P-238214 L....-_F_O_R_R_E_N_T_--Jr GRAD. WEEKEND  rent. walking distance to campus. $550.00 a month. 9 to 12 month ~·~;~,.~ ;:,~E1·  Come. And be my baby. Tired of paying high taxi fares? Don't want to wait an hour for a taxi to arrive? I'm sticking around 'til Sunday and  11-12:30 at the Bookstore 1-2:30 on Stepan Courts. Prices are the same as last year and the truck will unload Sunday in Pitt. Times will be available at loading. Any questions, call Chris at  6 a.m.is just not "pretty" without you. Liza & Kristin  
in Pitt. Distribution times  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  ND PARENTS: THE ANSWER TO  can give rides to the  234-8817.  w  
will be given out at loading. The prices will be the same  219-291-7153.  YOUR STUDENT'S HOUSING COSTS -HOUSE W/2 APTS.  airport/train/bus station the weekend after finals for just $5.  Single loft, bookshelf, and fridge 4­ E  
as last year. Any questions, cail Chris at 234­8817  An attractive studio in lovely old mansion near N.D. $300 now renting for summer &fall 91 call  GOOD CONDITION, CLOSE TO ND. LET'S EXPLORE POSSIBILITIES. 289-8720 (8-3PM)  Call Rene at 277-9468 to reserve a spot.  sale Don •2173 Anyone interested in SINGING  M I s  
NDtSmc NJ Students: Club will run luggage truck home. Loading at Stepan:  2879624  FOR SALE: EVERYTHING MUST GO  SUMMER IN EUROPE FROIM $315 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe from Chicago. Call (800) 325-2026.  a variety of music, from classic rock to progressive, with established campus band  s E D  
5-9 6:00-8:00 5-10 12:30-2:30 ?'s cail Matt x1777  MOVING TO CHICAGO? Call our N.D. alumnae family for the most attractive, well-maintained  1 Sofa 1 Window Seat (FI & Gr) 2 Carpets (12x10, 12x13) 1 6 foot ladder  The Copy Shop LaFortune Student Center is ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS  call Eric x3318 or Bill X4586 Thanks For Everything  y 0 u  
RESUMES/TERM PAPERS/THESES Guaranteed  apartments on Chicago's North side! Hardwd floors, great closet space, lndry fadls., conveniently  1 small Refrigerator Call X1583  for 1991-92 employment. Stop in and apply today!!!  This year Guys I'm giong to miss you next Year:  A T  
Lowest Rates. 256-6657. TYPING -CALL COLLEEN AT 234-8882 LOST/FOUND r Lost at Commons: Denim jacket with car keys and driver's liscences of Lisa Parker and Laura Parks in pocket. If found, please cail 2806. LOST: Royal blue BACK PACK containing library books and a pair of purple glasses (I think) Please call Alison at 2806. HELPI Finals are coming. Thanx  located to public transp and shopping. Call (312) 561-8224. We'd love to help you out! FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN, AIR, PHONE, MICROWAVE, UTILITIES PAID, 5 MIN. N. CAMPUS. 272-0615. 4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. lor 91-92 Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. House with indiv. Rooms avail. 91-92 Yr. Shared Living areas. Reas. Rates. Phone 232-1776. CONDO for summer rental. Close to ND. 2 bd, furnished. Rent flexible!! Call 272-5708.  Datsun 210. 1979 80K mls. $350 or BIO call liz 271-1893 A 1976 Bitchin' Camaro Runs well, 96,000 miles $950 or best offer contact Jay at x3450 Drum kit for sale MIRAGE PERCUSSION like new $500 or best offer Mark 288-3048 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Buying a car? Good rates. Call me lor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993.  Happy Birthday Joe Roberts. We love you. SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE FOR SALE: Avoid paying high rentals. Buy my 3 year old, dorm size FRIDGE for only $50 and own it for next year. Call Scott at X1650. SALE SALE SALE SALE SALE LIMPY & HARVEY'S QUOTE BOARD: "A sober man's thoughts are a drunk man's words."  Susanne(31 ),Marit,Marie You are all the greatest! Your Bud always, Pat -LOST-­HELP! I lost my wallet at the Commons on Friday Night. It's a tan color and has a lot of important stuff in there! If found, please call Maria at 284-5073 and no questions will be asked. FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY CALLING VANESSA 272-9305. SENIORS..... SENIORS....SENIORS  D E N N Y' s 9 days until the end of the year!! I!! Big Monicas......... . That Shrimp is a wonderful piece of machinery !Ill Awesome!! Liza  
LOST 4/29: 3.5" floppy disk formatted for Mac's. Very important. Bill Campbell written on front. Call Bill at x1584. Found: One pair of prescription glasses in a Ray-Ban sunglasses case. Were found on path around St. Joe's Lake in front of the seminary. Kathryn x2734 LOST: GLASSES-dark blue frames in a mint green case CALL x1813  LARGE HOUSE, 2 BATHS, 415 BDRMS. $700.282-1014. SUMMER SUBLETTOR NEEDED Turtle Creek Apts, 2 bdrm sublet from June-Aug. Call x3828 3 Bedroom House Close To Campus $555 Mo. + Dep. 232-3616 House for Rent  Office near campus. 89 GEO Spectrum Great Gas Mileage­45/city 50/highway Still has factory warranty excellent buy, call Pat 288-5678 Single Bed for Sale. One Year Old. Price is Negotiable. Please Call 2805 FOR SALE recliner, desk call 289-3349  ADOPTION-HAPPILY MARRIED PROFESSIONAL COUPLE WISH TO ADOPT A BABY TO LOVE. WE ARE SENSITIVE TO BIRTH PARENT'S CONCERNS ABOUT ADOPTION AND OPEN OPTIONS. CALL COLLECT 616-247-6936. IIIII JUNIORS, JUNIORS!! I!! SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND DISK TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW. DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101  Career & Placement Services will be set up in the Hesburgh Library Concourse on TUESDAY, MAY 7TH and WEDNESDAY, MAY 8TH to collect our "Future Plans/Job Offer.." forms that we sent to you earlier this spring. We will be in the concourse from 1 :00-2:00 each day and will have plenty of blank forms. PLEASE .. BEFORE YOU GO... TELL US WHERE YOU'RE GOING!! SENIORS.. . SENIORS...SENIORS....  Carla, if you see this, just get prepared for the "QUAD FROM HELL!" We Miss you Liza, Angie and Rachel Why does n't anyone ever call me? Storage from hell..coming soon to a Siegfried Section near you!! Space, Space, Everywhere Space  
$170/Mon  
- HELPIII I lost my keys somewhere on campus Saturday (maybe in LaFortune). If you found aND keyring with two keys on it-one saying #328, please call me. Kelley x4854. LOST: CAMEO PIN. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 239­5812 TERRI WELTY. FOUND: A BLUE BACKPACK AT THE LAFAYETTE BLOCK PARTY CALL 288 0597 TO CLAIM WANTED I  Call287-2159 Paul 2 BDRM. TOWNHOUSE, TURTLE CREEK, AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER SUBLET JUNE 1. CALL ERICA 283-4768 OR MONIQUE 283-4717. Room Available in a save & historic area. Full house priv. Washer & Dryer included. 1 mi. from N.D. $220/mnth. Phone 287-7928 Quaint furnished apts. near N.D. for summer-1 bedrm $260; summer & fall-effeciency $225; fall-2 bedrm $360; deposit, references 1-800-582-9320  ...___T_IC_K_E_T_S_--"r Need at least one and up to three grad tix. Please call Scott@ 258-4324 Help! Grandparents need two 2 grad. tix. Call Jon x1847 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED GRADUATION TICKETSIII Grandparents are coming from California-please help mell KRISTIN x273-9469 •••HELP ME OUTII ••• I Need A Ticket For Graduation. It's A Matter of Life and Death.... Willing To Pay Big, Big Bucks! Please Call Me If You Have An Extra!  !!Ill JUNIORS, JUNIORS!!Ill SUBMIT COPY OF RESUME AND DISK TO CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! DEADLINE FRIDAY, MAY 101 SHANNON KAY: I miss you lots and I love you very much. Good luck on your tests. Dad ••••••••••••••••••••••••Need 2 graduation tickets. Call Brian at 288-0597. •• BOSTON CLUB TRUCK••  SHIP GREYHOUND, PREPAID OR COLLECT. BOXES PLUS LOCATIONS ON CAMPUS. 287-6041 VERMIN UNITE! Congrats to the men of Carroll Hall, who won the •Quest for the Crown," and also to the UMOC...-Zeto ANNUAL MOTHER"S DAY POTTERY SALE runs May 1 and 2 on the lawn of Riley Hall. Come buy handcrafted pots from N.D. art students. lowest prices anywhere! HI!  Lers play "Would You Like To Use the Phone?" Country Forever! II!!!!! Juniors! Juniors! Submit copy of resume and disk to Career and Placement Services for Resume Books now! Deadline: Friday, May 10 * * * * *  
- Moving to Chicago? Female ND grad needs roommate to share 2 bedroom apartment. Must be a non­smoker. If interested, please cail Ann at (312) 935-1958. KUWAIT, SAUDI WORKERS NEEDED $35.00 & up per hour. Tax Free. Both skilled & unskilled. For info. Call615-779-5505 Ext. K-541.  FREEDOM! Rent the best furnished houses, prime locations, sec. systems, sand V-ball, wash/dry. Call Greg 233­9947. Sublet apt. for summer: 1 bedroom; 800+ sq. ft.; washer & dryer in apt.; pool; tennis courts; storage. CHEAP­must rent. Call 277-2597  EMILY 284-5073 Need 2 GRADUATION TICKETS for grandmothers' 1st/only trips to ND. $$11 Call Tom 3698 or 3697/recorder. Desperately need 2 graduation tix. for grandparents, or I will be left out of the will. Help mell Jon@ 289­1015  WILL BE LOADING ON THURSDAY, MAY 9 FROM 12:30 TO 3:00 BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE WASHINGTON D.C. AREA RESIDENTS. Baggage truck home will load up 519, 5/10. Anything goes. Call Brett x1416 or Tom x11891or info.  WANTED:MEN TO TEACH US EVERYTHING THEY "KNOW". NO STRINGS ATTACHED. WE'RE READY & WILLING. PLEASE CALL JAN & ERIN x3230. BAR.BAR.BAR.BAR.BAR• Bar for sale great condition II II cail 288-0597 BAR.BAWBAR.BAR.BAR•  Juniors! Juniors! Submit copy of resume and disk to Career and Placement Services for Resume Books now! Deadline: Friday, May 10  

page 15 

SCOREBOARD 
Wednesday, May 1, 1991 
BASEBALL STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE e... Dlvtalon w L Pel GB L10 Streak Home Away Boeton 11 1 .611 z·8·2 Won 3 6·4 5·3 
g

Toronto 12 .571 112 z-5·5 lost 1 8·3 4·6 Milwaukee 10 9 .528 1 112 5·5 Won 1 5·5 5-4 Detroh .500 2 z-5-5 Won 1 4-4 5·5
g g Cleveland 1 g .438 3 z-4-e Won 1 1·5 8-4 New Yotk 8 10 .375 4 4·6 L.oat 2 3-4 3·6 Bahlmore 6 12 .333 5 z-3-7 Loet 1 2·7 4·5 w..l Dlvlalon w L Pel GB L10 Streak Home Away Chicago 11 6 .647 5·5 Lost 1 5-4 6·2 Oakland 12 7 .632 4·6 Won 3 8-1 4·6 Texas 8 6 .500 21/2 z-6-4 Won 1 3·6 5·2 Seattle 10 11 .476 3 z-5-5 Won 2 6-3 4·6 Call!omIa 10 .474 3 z-4-e lost 3 4·6 5-4
g Mlnneaota g 11 .450 3 1/2 7·3 Lost 1 7-4 2·7 KaneuChy 8 10 .444 31/2 4·6 Lost 3 5·4 3·6 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Eaal Dlvtalon 
w L Pel GB L10 Slraak Home Away Plttabutgh 13 1 .650 z-8-2 Lost 1 7·3 6-4 St. Louis 13 6 .619 112 7·3 Won 2 11·3 4·5 NewYotk 11 6 .5711 1 112 5·5 l.oet 2 6-4 5-4 Chicago 10 11 .476 3112 3·7 Won 1 7-3 3·8 Philadelphia g 12 .4211 41/2 z-6-4 Won 4 7-4 2·8 Montreal 7 13 .350 6 z-3-7 Won 2 4·6 3·7 Weal Dlvlalon 
w L Pel GB L10 Streak Home Away Cincinnati 11 8 .5711 Z·B-4 Won 2 6·4 5·4 San Diego 11 9 .550 112 4·6 lost 3 5·5 6·4 Loe Angelea 10 10 .500 1112 5·5 Loet 1 4·6 6·4 Atlanta 8 10 .444 2 112 5·5 Loet 3 2·6 6-4 Houlton 8 11 .421 3 3·7 L.oat 1 5·4 3·7 San Franclaco 8 12 .400 3 112 z-4-e Loet 2 5-4 3·8 
z-denoiH llral game waa a win. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Monday'• Gamea Seattle 10, Baftlmore 1 Detroh 3. Kanau Cfty 1 Only games acheduied 
Tueaday'a Gamea 
Lale Gamae Not lncludad Seattle 6, Bahlmore 3 Milwaukee 8, Chicago 2 Boaton 7, Minnesota 5 Texu 8, Toronto 5 Detroh at Kanau Cfty, (n) New Yotk at Oakland, (n) Cleveland at Callornla. (n) 
Wedneaday'a Gamea Chicago (Hibbard 2·0) at Milwaukee (Knudson 1-1), 2:35p.m. New York (leary 2·0) at Oakland (Moore 3-0), 3:15p.m. Seattle (R.Johnaon 2·2) at Bahlmore (Meaa 1·3), 7:35p.m Detroit (GuiUckaon 2.()) at Kana as Cfty (Boddlcker 2·2), 8:35 p.m. Boaton (G.Harrla 1·2) at Minnesota (Erickson 2·2). 8:35 p.m. Toronto (Key 4·0) at Texas (Ryan 2·2), 8:35p.m. Clawland (Candlottl 2·1) at CaiWornla (Finley 4-0), 10:35 p.m. 
Thuraday'a Gamea Mlnneaota at Milwaukee, 8:05p.m. Toronto at Kanau CHy. 8:35p.m. Only games acheduied 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Monday'a Game• Philadelphia 7. San Diego 2 St. Loula 4, Atlanta 3, 11 Innings Only games acheduied 
Tueaday'a Gamea 
lale Game Not lnclu<Md Cincinnati 4, Pittsburgh 3 Montreal I, Loe Angeles 0 Philadelphia 11, San Franclaco 9 Chicago 10, Houston 3 St. Loula 5, Atlanta 3 San Diego at New York. (n) 
Wedneaday'a Gamea Atlanta (Avery 2·1) at St. Loula (B.Smfth 3·0), 1:35 p.m. Houaton (Deahalea 0-2) at Chicago (G.Maddux 2·1 ), 2:20 p.m. Pittsburgh (Palacloe 1·0) at Cincinnati (RI)o 1-1), 7:35p.m Loe Angelea (Belcher 3-1) at Montreal (Nabholz 0-3), 7:35 p.m. San Franclaco (laCoaa 1·1) at Philadelphia (DeJesus 0-1), 7:35p.m. San Diego (Huret 2.()) at New York (VIola 3·0), 7:40p.m. 
Thuraday'a Gemee No gamea acheduled 
Friday'• Gamea St. Loula at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. San Diego at Montreal. 7:35p.m. Loa Angelea at Philadelphia, 7:35 p.m 
Houlton at Plnaburgh, 7:35 p.m. Chicago at Atlanta. 7:<10 p.m. San Franclaco at New Yoli<, NO p.m. 


Some employers promise 
you the world 
We offer you achance 
to make the world better 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,c.s.c Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
MAJOR LEAGUE LEADERS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE BATTING (43 at bats)-EManlnez, Seattle, .422; Espinoza, New Yoli<, .391; DHenderaon, Oakland, .389; CRJpken, Baltimore, .359; Puckett, Minnesota, 
.355. 
RUNS-DHenderson, Oakland, 17; EMartlnez, Seattle, 17; CRipken, Baltimore, 18; Whhe, Toronto, 15; Canseco, Oakland, 14. RBI-CRipken, Bahlmore, 20; DHenderson, Oakland, 18; Fielder, Detroit, 18; Yount, Milwaukee. 17; JoCarter, Toronto, 15. HITS-DHenderson, Oakland, 28; JoCarter, Toronto, 28; EManlnez. Seattle, 27; Puckett, Mlnneaota. 27; Yount, Milwaukee, 25. DOUBLES-OHenderson, Oakland. 9; RAiomar, Toronto, 9; Whhe, Toronto, 9; JoCarter, Toronto, 8; Elaenrelch, Kansas City, 7; Tartabull, Kansas CHy, 
1. 
TRIPLES-GrM'!well, Boston. 2; Knoblauch, Minnesota, 2; WWIIaon, Oakland, 2; 42 are tied wfth1. HOME RUNS-OHenderaon, Oakland, 6; KGibeon, Kansas Chy, 8; CRJpken, Baltimore, 5; GVaughn, Milwaukee, 5; Yount, Milwaukee, 5. STOLEN BASES--f'olonla. CaiWornla, 8; Penta, Texas, 7; RAiornar, Toronto, 8; Briey, Seattle, 5; Cotto, Seattle, 5. PITCHING (3 declalona~lemene, Boston, 4-(), 1.000, 0.28; Finley, CaiKomla, 4-(), 1.000, 2.45; Key, Toronto, 4-(), 1.000, 1.86; Moore, Oakland, 3­0,1.000, 2.52;11rrlln, Toronto, 3·0,1.000, 3.12. STRIKEOUTS-Ryan, Texas, 37; Clemens, Boeton, 34; McDowell, Chicago, 31; Leary, New York, 28; Hanaon, Seattle, 27. SAVES--Eckerslay, Oakland, 7; Reardon, Boston, 7; Thigpen, Chicago, 8; DJonea, Cleveland, 5; DWard, Toronto, 5; Montgomery, Kansas CHy, 5. 
Tuesday's Major League Uneocores 
AMERICAN LEAGUil Seattle 002 030 001--6 10 Baltimore 010 011 000-3 6 1 
Hanson, Swan (6) and Valle; Ballard, Flanagan (5), Wllli&IIIMon (9) and Hones. w­H&nson, 2·1. L-Ball&rd, 2·2. Sv-Swan (2). HR11-Seattle, Buhner (4), V&lle (2). Baltimore, Evans (1). 
Booton 022 000 030-7 10 1 Minnesota 003 000 2~5 9 1 
M.Young, Gr&y (7), Re&rdon (8) &nd Pena; Anderson, Leach (7), Caslan (7), Bedrosian (8) &nd ll&rper. W-Gray, 1·1. L-Bodroslan, 2·1. Sv-Re&rdon (8). HRil-Boston, Greenwell (3), Quinlan& (1). Minnesota. Leluo (1). 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Pittsburgh 101 010 000-3 4 Onclnnall 200 101 OOx-4 8 1 
Dr&bek, Patterson (7), Kipper (8) and Slaugh!; Browning, Dibble (8) and Oliver. W­Brownlng, 3·1. L-Drabek, 1·4. Sv-Dibble (5). IIRII-PIIIsburgh, Van Slyke ( 4), Und (1). OnclnnaU, Morrlo (2), Duncan (1). 
Loa Angeles()()() 000 000-0 4 Montreal 000 000 001-1 2 1 Morg&n and Scloscla; De.Martlnez and Hassey. W-De.Martlnez. 3·2. L-Morg&n, 2·2. IIR-Monlre&l, DeShields (2). 
San l'ranclocoOOO 450 000-9 11 0 PbUadelphla 011 126 00..-11 14 0 Black, OUver&S (6), Brantley (6), Robinson 
(8) and Decker; Combs, Akerfelds (5), Soever (5), McDoweU (7), MI.WUIIams (9) and D&ullon. W-Boever, 1·1. L-Brantley, 0·1. Sv-Ml.WIIU&IIIM (5). HRo-San Francisco, MLWIUiamo (3), Anderoon (1). PhU&delphl&, Kruk (4}, Murphy (4), Jordan (1), C.ll&yes (3). 
Houston 010 200 000-3 7 Chicago 204 000 22x-10 12 0 
PortugAl, Hernandez (4), Klle (7) and Biggio; Bielecki, Assenmacher (7), Slocumb (9) and VIllanueva. W-Bieleckl, 4·1. L-Portug&l, 2·1. HRo-Houolon, Rhodes (1). Chicago, Vlllaneuva (1). G.Scolt (1). 
NATIONAL LEAGUE BATTING (43 at bata)--8lgglo, Houllon, .383; Jose, St. Loula, .373; McGee, San Francisco, .358; TGwynn, San Diego, .350; HMorrla, Cincinnati, 
.347; WCiark, San Francisco, .347. RUNS-Oykatra. Philadelphia. 19; Joee, St. Loula, 18; RThompaon, San Franclaco, 18; BoniNa. Pittsburgh, 15; DeShlalda, Montreal, 15; Strawberry, Loa Angelea, 15. RBI-WCiark, San Franclaco, 21; BoniKa. Plnsburgh, 18; Daniela, Loa Angelaa. 18; Dawson, Chicago, 16; Kruk. Philadelphia, 16; Mhchell, San Franclaco, 18. HITS-Jose, St. Loula, 28; TGwynn, San Diego, 28; Dawson, Chicago, 25; Samuel, Loe Angelaa, 25; WCiark, San Franclaco, 25. DOUBLES-Jose, St. Louis, 8; HMorrla, Cincinnati, 7; Bonilla. Pittsburgh, 6; Bream, Atlanta, 8; Dykstra. Philadelphia. 8; Gant, Atlanta, 6; Strawberry, Loa Angelea, 6. TRIPLE8--Qmdaele, Houston, 3; TGwynn, San Diego, 3; II are tied with 2. HOME RUNS-4.4~chell, San Franclaco, 7; Dawson. Chicago, 5; Decker, San Franclaco, -'; GBell, Chicago. 4; ONeNI, Cincinnati, 4; Samual, 
Loe Angelaa, 4; WCJali<, San Franclaco, -'· STOLEN BASES-Coleman, New York, 11; DeShields, Montreal. 11; D~stra. Philadelphia. 7; Nixon, Atlanta, 7; Dascenzo, Chicago, 8; Roberts, San Diego, 8. PITCHING (3 declalona)-BSmlth, St. Louis, 3-0, 1.000. 3.00; Hammond, Clndnnatl. 3-o, 1.000, 1.64; RMcDowell, Philadelphia, 3·0, 1.000. 1.10; Smiley, Plnaburgh, 4·0, 1.000, 2.28; VIola, New york. 3-(), 1.000, 0.86. STRIKEOUTS-Gooden, New York, 34; Benes. San Diego, 30; Gla~lne, Atlanta. 26; Hurst, San Diego, 28; Charlton, Cincinnati, 23. SAVES-bSmllh, St. Louis, 7; Franco, New York, 5; Lefferts, San Diego. 5; DaSmhh, Chicago, 4; Dibble, Cincinnati, 4; MIWIIIIama, Philadelphia.-'· 
Mldweal Laague  
Aral Hall  
Northern Dlvtalon  
w  L  Pel.  GB  
Appleton (Royall)  12  4  .750  
Madlaon (Athletics)  9  7  .563  3  
South Bend (WhheSx)10  8  .558  3  
Beloit (Brewers)  7  9  .438  5  
Kane County (O's)  1  9  .438  5  
Rocklord (Expos)  7  10  .412  5112  
Kenosha (Twlna)  8  10  .375  8  
Soulharn Dlvlalon  
Quad Chy (Angela)  12  6  .887  
Springfield (Cards)  11  7  .811  1  
Cedar Rapids (Reds)  8  8  .500  3  
Clinton (Olanta)  8  g  .471  3112  
Waterloo (Padrea)  8  8  .4211  4  
Burlington (Astroe) Peoria (Cubs)  7 6  10 11  .412 .353  41/2 6112  
Monday'a Gamea  
Appleton 8, Bu~lng ton 5  
Beloit 12, Rockford 3  

Waterloo at Kenoeha. ppd., rain Clinton 6, South Bend 5 Kane County 11, Cedar Rapids 9 Quad Chy 12, Peoria 3 Madison 10, Sp~nglleld 4 
Tueaday'a Gamea Clinton at BeloH Kenoeha at Rockford South Bend at Waterloo Kane County at Cedar Rapids Appleton at Quad Chy Peo~a at Burlington Madison at Springfield 
Wednaaday'e Gamea Clinton at Beloh Kenoeha at Rockford South Bend at Wate~oo Kane County at Cedar Rapids Appleton at Quad CMy Peoria at Burlington Madison at Springfield 

COLLEGE BASEBALL SCORES 
EAST Conland St. 8, St. Roae 5 Holy Cross 8, Colgate 1 Montdalr St. 18, Dorrlnlcan, CaiW. 4 Paoe 12, Manhattan 1 Rutgers 12, Columbia 3 Scranton 6, Drew 1 
SOUTH Armstrong St. 2·7, Albany St. 0-1 Aubum 6, Ala.-Binnlngham 5, It Inning• Auburn 14, LaGrange 0 AugLeta 7, Paine 5 Florida SOUihern -'· Eckard 2 Georgia 3, Georgia Tech 2 Mlaalaslppl 8-4, Arkanau St. 1·2 Miulaalppl St. 3, SOUihem Mlu. 2 Rollins 8, Barry 5 Tampa 11, St. Leo 6 Vanderblh 8, Tennessee Tech 5, 10 lnnlnga Wolford 7, Erskine 3 
MIDWEST Allegheny 4·1, Youngstown St. 3-10 Bowling Green 12, Dayton 10 Graoe, Ind. ID-e, Indiana Tech (}.5 IINnola 28, 111.-Chlcago 17 Indiana St. 7, Evansville 1 Kent St. 1-'·18, Toledo D-e Marietta 10-10, Hiram 1·-' Miami, Ohio 8-1 5, Ball St. 5-18, 2nd game 8 
Innings Michigan St. 20-10, Saginaw Val. St. 3-0 Ohio Northern 4·6, Otterbein 3-7 Ohio U. 7, Cleveland St. 4 Ohio Wealeyan 18, Kenyon 5 St. Xavier 12·11, Illinois St. 5-5 
FAR WEST Long Beach St. 7, UCLA 3 Loyola Marymount 6, Fullarton St. 4 Pepperdlne 4, U.S. International 1 
T rple A Alliance At A Glance American A..oclallon Eaelem Dlvlalon 
w L Pel. GB lndpolla (Expoe) 12 6 .887 Buffalo (Pir-) 8 1 .462 3112 Loulavlne (Carda) 8 10 .444 4 NashvHie (Redo) 1 g ...38 4 Weatem Dlvlalon Iowa (Cube) 14 " .778 Denver (B,_rs) 1 9 .438 6 Okla. Cfty (Rangers) 7 g .438 6 Omaha (Royall) 5 12 .2114 8112 
lnlemallonal League Eaalem Dlvlalon 
W L Pel. GB Syracuse (Blue Jaya) 11 8 .847 Pawtucket (Red Sox) II 7 .583 1112 Rocheater (Oriolea) 8 8 .500 2 112 Scranton-WB (PhHIIaa) 8 11 .353 5 Weatem Dlvlalon Cotumbua (Yankeea) 12 3 .800 Tidewater (Meta) 1 10 .412 8 Toledo (Tigers) 7 10 .412 6 Richmond (Bravea) 7 12 .368 7 Monday'a a..,.a 
lndlanapolla 4, Lou Iaviiie 3 Rocheater 7, Richmond 4 Syracuse 12. Tidewater 7 Columbus 8, Pawtucket 6 Toledo 2. Scranton·WIIkea-Barre 1, 12 Innings Cincinnati Redo 2, NuhvNie 2. exhlblton Iowa 3, Denver 2 Oklahoma Chy 14, Omaha II 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASKETBALL Conllnenlal BaaketiHIII Aaaoclallon LACROSSE CATBIRDS-Acquired Kenny Drummond, guard, from Grand Rapids to complete an earlier trade. Unlled Statea Basketball League MIAMI TROPIC5-Signed Lloyd Daniela, guard. Named Kevin Kollman director ol operations; Jonathan Grosaman ualatant director ol operatlona; and Mark Macelll director ol marketing. World BasketbaN League FLORIDA JADE5-Signed Darryl Kennedy and Winston Morgan, forwards. FOOTBALL Nallonal Football League CLEVELAND BROWNS-$1gned George Hemingway, Archie Herring, Terry Strong and Barry Word, running batko; Nathaniel Bonon, wide receiver; Terrill Chatman, offensive tackle; Ben Mitchell, offensive guard; Terrence Sanders, defensive end; Theron EUia, Dwayne Fontenette and Douglaa Moone, Nnebackera; and Charlie Oliver, defensive back. Waived Ralph Stephens, punter. MIAMI DOLPHIN5-Signed nm Brown, Rick Fleooe. Soott Miller, T.J. Oilman, Man Ruhland, and An Walker, defensive Nnemen; Pat Dully, Jason Jessup, JBIT188 Parrlah, Mike Pavelac, and Portlque Wllbum. offensive Nnemen; Thomas Bakcom, Eddie Brown, and AI Higgs, defensive backs; CHIIord Champ, Joe Johnson, Dwayne Pelham, and Mark Sander, linebackers; Stefan Sootton, and Eric Jenklna, running backs; Gordy Wood, tight end; and Doug Pederson, quarterback. Arena Football League ALBANY FIREBIRD5-Signed WinJe Hicks, quarterback, KeHh Henry, wide receiver-defensive back, Jullln Dettore and Mke Jonea, offensive­defensive lineman. World League of American FooiiHIII BARCELONA DRAGON5-Signed John Elmaary, linebacker. ORLANDO THUNDER-Signed Ivan Cook, linebacker; Chrla Jackson, running back; and Rodney Loaaow, center. Released J.J. Flannigan, running back, and Mark Holland, tackle. SACRAMENTO SURGE-$1gned Chrla Gaiters, wide receiver. SAN ANTONIO RIDER5-Signed Eric Snelson, linebacker. COLLEGE BUTLER--Announoed the realgnatlon ol Brlan MUter, women.. track and croaa-country coach. INDIANA-Named JIH Sterkel swimming coach. IONA-Announced that B•hklm Muatafaj. forward, wiN transfer to Weatcheater Communky College. MISSOUR~amed Kim Anderson men'a ­assistant basketball coach. 
NBA Sixth Man Vollng NEW YORK (AP)-Voting lor the 1000-91 NBA Sixth Man award aa selected by a nationwide panel of the media: Player, Team Vote Delle! Schremp!, Indiana 38 Dan Majerla, Phoenix 37 Kevin McHale, Boston 8 Ricky Pleroa, Seattle 6 Danny Alnge, Portland 3 Moaea Malone, Atlanta 1 Larry Smith, Houaton 1 Jerry Reynolds, Orlando 1 Thurl Bailey. Utah 1 
~-~-----~~ 
Wednesday, May 1, 1991 
page 16 The Observer 
Bosox snap Twins win streak; Henderson still waiting 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP)-Carlos Quintana hit his frrst home run since last July 30, a two-out, three-run shot in the eighth in­ning, lifting the Boston Red Sox to a 7-5 victory over Minnesota and snapping the Twins' five­game winning streak. 
Boston is 9-2 since April 19. Minnesota lost for only the sec­ond time in nine games. The Twins (9-11) last had a . 500 April in their World Series year, 1987. 
Despite allowing Dan Gladden's seventh-inning go­ahead double, Jeff Gray (1-1) won in relief of Matt Young, who is still looking for his frrst victory after coming to Boston as a free agent. Ex-Twin Jeff Reardon pitched the fmal 1 1-3 innings for his eighth save. 
Steve Bedrosian (2-1) lost for the frrst time since arriving in Minnesota in an offseason trade with San Francisco. 
Mariners 6, Orioles 3 
BALTIMORE -Dave Valle hit his second homer in two days and the Seattle Mariners scored three unearned runs to beat Baltimore 6-3 Tuesday night, their seventh consecutive victory against the Orioles. 
The Mariners have now won two straight after opening the season with six losses, then winning eight straight before losing five in a row. Their cur­rent streak began Monday night in Baltimore, where they have now won 20 of 28 games since Sept. 1, 1987. 
Erik Hanson (2-1) gave up six hits, walked four and hit a bat­ter in 5 1-3 innings. Russ Swan pitched the fmal 3 2-3 innings to get his second save. Jeff Ballard (2-2) was the loser for Baltimore, which lost for the seventh time in nine games. 
Brewers 8, White Sox 2 
MILWAUKEE Dante Bichette and Franklin Stubbs homered and Jim Gantner had four hits as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Chicago White Sox 8-2. 
Billy Spiers added three hits to the 13-hit Milwaukee attack in support of Chris Bosio (3-2). 
Bosio was in trouble in each of the first four innings and gave up a bases-loaded sacri­fice fly to Matt Merullo in the third. Bosio lasted five innings, giving up five hits. 
The White Sox, who had beaten the Brewers in 20 of 24 games the last two seasons, stranded eight runners in the frrst four innings and had 13 for the game. 
Alex Fernandez (2-2) was the loser. 
Rangers 8, Blue Jays 5 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Ruben Sierra hit two homers, including a three-run seventh­inning shot to break a 4-4 tie, leading the Texas Rangers to an 8-5 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Sierra, who had a two-run homer in the frrst, drove in five runs to tie a career high. With two out in the seventh, Sierra ripped a 2-1 pitch off Blue Jays' reliever Jim Acker (0-1) into the right field stands. 
Sierra's fourth homer of the season drove in Jeff Huson and Rafael Palmeiro, both of whom had singled, and made a winner of reliever Rich Gossage (2-0). Sierra hit two homers in a game for the seventh time in his career. 
Rookie Mark Whiten had a career-high four RBI, including 
a sixth-inning two-run single to send the Blue Jays in front 4-3. Juan Gonzalez's one-out single in the sixth drove in Franco with the tying run for Texas. 
Tigers 13, Royals 7 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Rob Deer hit a grand slam in the fourth and Lou Whitaker bounced a tie-breaking solo shot off the top of the fence in the eighth, powering the Detroit Tigers past the Kansas City Royals 13-7. 
Whitaker hit a 1-1 pitch from reliever Jeff Montgomery (1-1) for his fourth home run. Then with one out, Mickey Tettleton doubled, Deer reached on an infield single and Mark Salas singled into right. But Danny Tartabull misplayed the ball as both runners scored to give the Tigers a 9-6 lead. 
Detroit added four more runs in the ninth, two on an error by shortstop Kurt Stillwell, another on a bases-loaded walk to Deer, and one more on a double-play grounder. 
Brian McRae, who had an in­side-the-park homer in the fourth, hit a sacrifice fly to cap a three-run rally that tied it 6-6 for the Royals in the seventh. 
The victory went to AI Leither (1-1), who got one out. Mike Henneman pitched the last two innings for his fourth save. 
Athletics 7, Yankees 3 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Jose Canseco hit a two-run homer and Mark McGuire a two-run double as the Oakland Athletics beat the New York Yankees for the 15th consecutive time, 7-3. 
Oakland's Rickey Henderson failed to steal a base and re­!!!ained tied with Lou Brock for the career stolen base record. 
API'holl 
Texas shortstop Jeff Huson loses control of the ball while trying to complete a double play against Cleveland. 
Playing in his frrst game since homer, then held the Yankees to tying Brock's record of 938 ca­four singles. He struck out four reer steals, Henderson went 1-and walked one. for-4 with a single before Willie Wilson replaced him in the Angels 6, Indians 5 eighth inning. ANAHEIM, Calif. -Junior 
Bob Welch (3-1) settled down Felix keyed a two-run 11th in­after a shaky start to hold New ning with his frrst home run of York to five hits and two runs in the season and Jack Howell eight innings to gain the victory, capped the rally with a run­the A's fourth straight and scoring single as the California eighth straight at home. Welch Angels snapped a three-game gave up three hits in the first, losing streak with a 6-5 victory including Steve Sax's two-run over the Cleveland Indians. 


THE JERICHO SESSIONS 
an all-original Notre Dame 
XYZ Affair Doghaus 
SYR 

5 O'Clock Shadows The Turquoise Sidewalk Greg Jeffrey Tony Graffeo -Brian Muller Exit 77 
Dominic Campanella &
-
CD Sampler featuring ... 
Bone Forest Chisel Jester Chronic Desire Fresh Water for the Horses Ralph Falbo Trio Little Geneva Don McGahn Sigi Loya Chris Nor borg 
On sale for just 8 bucks at the Fieldhouse Mall whenever a band is playing or at the WVFI Studio in Suite 200 Lafortune from 2 -5 p.m. MWF and 4 -6 p.m. TTh. Questions ... call WVFI am640 at 239-6400, 'cause those idiots sponsored this. 
• " ., _, 0 r • • .,.-1 

Wednesday, May 1, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Cincinnati wins first rematch of NLCS with Pirates 
Phillies run win streak to four; Expos, Cubs also win 
CINCINNATI (AP) -Hal Charlie Hayes' two-run homer Charlie Leibrandt (2-2) was the Morris and Mariano Duncan capped a six-run rally in the loser homered off struggling Cy sixth. Mets 6, Padres 3 Young Award winner Doug Joe Boever (1-1) pitched 1 2-3 NEW YORK -Fog and Drabek and Cincinnati beat scoreless innings. Mitch Dwight Gooden stopped Sao Pittsburgh in the first meeting Williams worked the ninth for Diego on as the New York Mets of defending National League his fifth save. Jeff Brantley (0-1) beat the Padres in a game division champions. took the loss. called after 6 1/2 innings be­
The Heds and Pirates are both cause of a thick mist. in first place this season. Cubs 1o, Astros 3 Gooden (3-1) pitched three­Cincinnati won last year's play­CHICAGO Hector hit ball through six innings off in six games. Villanueva drove in a career­when play was delayed because 
Duncan's first homer off high four runs with a three-run of a heavy fog. After a wait of 1 Drabek (1-4) snapped a 3-3 tie homer, a double and a single as hour, 38 minutes, the game re­in the sixth and sent the Pirates Mike Bielecki and the Chicago sumed without Gooden. But like to only their second loss in 10 Cubs beat the Houston Astros. the blob, the fog rolled back in games. and the game was called after a 
Tom Browning (3-1) allowed Vinllanueva's first home run 47-mioute wait in the bottom of four hits, including solo homers of the season capped a four-run the seventh. by Andy Van Slyke and Jose third inning. He came off the Lind, in 7 2-3 innings. Rob disabled list three days ago It was just the second game Dibble struck out the last four after sustaining a fracture in stopped by fog at Shea batters for his fifth save. his left hand. Stadium, and the first in 12 
years. In the last case, the Mets 
Expos 1, Dodgers 0 Bielecki ( 4-1) won his third and Pittsburgh were tied at 3 in 
MONTREAL Delino start of the season and allowed the 11th inning on May 25, DeShields led off the ninth in­six hits in the six innings. 1979, when the game was ning with a home run for Villanueva, who went into the halted. It was replayed in its Montreal's second hit of the game with a .111 average, entirety on June 25. game, leading Dennis Martinez homered into the left-field Gooden also hit an RBI single and the Expos past the Los bleachers ofT Mark Portugal (2-off Derek Lilliquist (0-1). Angeles Dodgers. 1). 

Mike Morgan (2-2) had given Cardinals 5, Braves 3 Season is a roller-coaster for Mariners 
up only a first-Inning single by ST. LOUIS -Pinch hitter Milt BALTIMORE (AP) -What do Jim Lefebvre had no reason to a row," catcher Dave Valle said. 
Tim Wallach before DeShields Thompson's two-run single you call it when a baseball team expect his team to play in a The Mariners' key to successconnected on the first pitch. snapped a seventh-inning tie plays terrible one week and down-up-down cycle. has been offense. In the nineDeShields' second home run of and the St. Louis Cardinals sensational the next? "We had the best spring ever, victories, they averaged 5. 78 the season went to center field. defeated the Atlanta Braves Eerie? Bizarre? Frightening? winning more games than the runs and batted .299. In the 11Martinez (3-2) pitched a four­night for their second consecu­Seattle outfielder Greg Briley club has ever had. So, sure losses, the numbers were 2.36
hitter in his first complete game tive come-from-behind victory. 
says the Mariners' unusual enough, we start the season and .218. 
of the season. He struck out With two outs and runners on start is merely a coincidence. with the most losses we've ever "In the losses, we just weren't seven and walked one. second and third, Thompson "It just so happens we lost the had," he said. "Then we come getting the hits when wesingled up the middle off re­first six, won the next eight and back and tie the longest streak needed them," said Ken Griffey,Phlllles 11, Giants 9 liever Mike Stanton. Thompson lost the next five," Briley said, the Mariners ever had." Sr. "Our pitching staff has beenPIIILADELPHIA -John Kruk is 3-for-5 with four walks as a as if that sort of thing happens And then Seattle lost five doing a good job. But wehomered, drove in four runs pinch hitter this season. 
all the time. straight. including four in a row haven't lOven them the supportand tied Mike Schmidt's team It does, Briley suggested. at Minnesota, before ending all the time." 
record of 20 RBis in April as Reliever Crls Carpenter (2-1) "If something like this hap­their latest string Monday night For that to happen, everyonethe Philadelphia Phlllies beat worked two scoreless innings pened in the middle of the sea­with a 10-1 victory over the in the lineup has to do his part.
the San Francisco Giants for for the victory. Lee Smith son, no one would say any­Baltimore Orioles. Considering That happened Monday, when their fourth straight victory. pitched the ninth for his eighth thing," Briley said. "It just so their trend, the Mariners had a every starter got a hit. It did notThe Phlllies trailed 9-3 before save in eight tries. Smith's happens we started out like r:ight to expect more victories to happen in Minnesota, where the Dale Murphy and Ricky Jordan streak of nine consecutive per­this." follow. Mariners scored only seven hit consecutive home runs off fect innings ended, however, on Certainly, Seattle manager "Now we have to win nine in runs in 3 7 innings. 
Bud Black In the fifth Inning. Mike Heath's one-out single. 



Coaches
Take off with low fares. 
continued from page 20 
Derby. He may not know all that much about basketball, but boy, would those press con­ferences be fun. 
•Art Gollwitzer: Not all of you may know who Art Is, but if you've lived in Dillon the last few years, you couldn't help knowing Art. He's a real win­ner. He got the Dillon B1 hoops squad into the playoffs both of the last two years and his meticulous stat keeping would eliminate the need for a team statistician. And with the lights shining off of his shock-blond hair, he'd probably blind all of the opposition, leading to sev­eral more wins. 
Well, there you have it, Mr. Rosenthal. As a Notre Dame basketball fan, I'm pretty con­cerned about the situation, so I thought I'd see if I could help. And if you ever need help with anything else, just give a holler 
10% Off coupon 
• 
Unlimited Mileage on One-Way Rentals For quality, comfort, cost and 

• 
24-Hr. Emergency Rood Service convenience, no other rental truck 

• 
full Range of Truck Sizes con move you like o Hertz Penske 

• 
Clean, Smooth-Running Trucks truck. 

• 
Many Trucks With Auto Trans­mission ond Air Conditioning 




Hertz 
Best 
Best Truck Deal 
4311 North Mayflower Rd. South Bend, IN 46628-97 43 219-277-0144 2220 Taledo Road Elkhart, IN 46516-5538 219-293-0541 
THE WINNING TEAM: HERTZ PENSKE AND YOU. 
Not aU trvd<tavoilolllo of aU locotions. All local and ono·woy rentals tubjoctta Hertz 
Pomko otondard rental qualificofions. ©Hertz Pomko Truck IAooing. Inc. 1915. You pay for.,,. ta..., tollo, collilion .._woiww. and paricing and driwing wiolotions. 0..., it off of...., participating Horlt Ponwo Truck Rental location. 

Miller 
continued from page 20 
tratlon, though, that she can separate her pitching duties from her hitting, and thus do both very well in the same game." 
Although a strained shoulder kept her from pitching for sev­eral weeks, Miller has won three straight games to raise her record to 6-5, and on Monday picked up her fJrSt ca­reer save. 
"This season has been frus­trating for her at times because of her injury," Boulac said. "However, she also has had to deal with defeat as a pitcher for the first time." 
A player of Miller's caliber could have been cocky joining this fledgling program. But Boulac savs that it's been the opposite. 

"Uke any freshman, she had her adjustment problems, but she has definitely made an im­pact on the team," he said. "She hasn't taken it by storm, however; she had to work her way in." 
"I just came in wanting to help the team any way I could," Miller added. "I think we all re­alized we're not at the top level that other schools are, and if we want to get there, we need to work together. 
"We're getting some good re­• cruits in this next year, and each year we're going to keep building and getting better." 
And with players like Miller forming the nucleus of an up­and-coming team, the pro­gram's lofty goals might just be 
-
reache~d~::!:iii~:.:l 

r---------------~ ~ 
page 18 The Observer 

Pacers are looking to upset the Celtics 
------~-~ 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-It took The Pacers, whose 2-9 playoff 15 years for the Indiana Pacers record is the worst in the to record their first NBA playoff league, took the homecourt ad­road victory. Now, they have vantage away from Boston with higher goals as they return a 130-118 victory at Boston home against the Boston Garden Sunday, as Chuck Celtics, with their best-of-5 Person set a postseason record series tied 1-1. with seven 3-point field goals 
After splitting two games at while scoring 39 points. Boston, the teams meet in "It's only an advantage if we Games 3 and 4 at Market come out and don't assume Square Arena, where the anything and play hard and Pacers have beaten the Celtics play together," Indiana coach five consecutive times. Bob Hill said of playing the next 
The Celtics need a victory ei­two games at home, where the ther Wednesday or Friday to Pacers won 29 times this avoid firSt-round elimination for season, the franchise's high in the third consecutive year, the NBA. "If we just come out while Indiana is looking for a and think that we're going to sweep to win its first NBA win, then we're going to lose." playoff series since entering the The Pacers shot nearly 58 league in 1976. The fifth game, percent (50-of-87) Sunday, held if necessary, will be at Boston Boston to 44 percent, and on Sunday. outrebounded the Celtics 41-37. 
SPOR1S SHORTS 

ATLANTA -It was a report by Dick Vitale on 
ESPN that , ............ ., .. Bobby Cremins as the chief candidate for the coaching job. When Cremins announced Monday he at Georgia Tech, he offered a candidate Vitale, who coached at the ''"'-·•--•• Pistons before pe<;oming a "nn,......~ .. from the outside,he'd.know 
NBA 
continued from page 20 

Pistons 103, Hawks 91 
ATLANTA -Joe Dumars and Isiah Thomas sparked Detroit's comeback from a 17-point second-quarter deficit, leading 
.. 
the Pistons to a 2-1 advantage over the Atlanta Hawks. 
-

The Hawks led 46-29 on a pair of free throws by Dominique Wilkins -his first points of the game -with 5:30 left in the first half before the Pistons began chipping away, starting with a 3-point basket by Mark Aguirre. 
Dumars, who scored 30 points, had 11 and Thomas added eight in the comeback that saw the Pistons take the lead for good at 66-64 on Dumars' second consecutive 3­pointer with 3:40 left in the third quarter. 
Thomas finished with 19 points and 13 assists and Vinnie Johnson scored 13 of his 17 points in the second quarter. Kevin Willis led the Hawks with 24 points while Wilkins, hounded by Dennis Rodman throughout the game, had 18. 
Lakers 94, Rockets 90 
HOUSTON -Byron Scott 
"I think they want to try to slow us down," Hill said. "They're a running team .... But I don't think they're going to force the run like we do. I think they'll be more apt to play half­court and go to their strengths inside and make it a battle of the boards. 
"We have to keep running. That's important for us." 
"The series isn't over by a long shot," said Boston coach Chris Ford, who kept his team at home for two days of practice before traveling to Indiana Tuesday night. 
"They're a great team, an in­stitution," Hill said of the Celtics, who won the Atlantic Division with a 56-26 record and are seeking their 17th NBA championship. we were able to get one of those games, that we 
Wednesday, May 1, 1991 
SPOR'JS BRIEFS 

•Sports 
Briefs are accepted, in writing, at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune during business hours. All briefs must be in before 5:00 to guarantee next day printing. 

•Students 
and staff interested in having a climbing wall on campus should come to a short meeting at 7:00pm on Wednesday, May 1, at the Non-Varsity Athletics office. Anyone with questions should call NVA at 239-6100. 

•WVFI 
will hold an organizational meeting at 8:00 pm on Thursday in the 2nd floor LaFortune studio for anyone interested in working in the station's sports department Any questions, call Mike at 283-4018. 

•Irish 
Guard: Anyone interested in trying out for the Irish Guard who missed the first informational meeting should call Chris Woods at 283-1606. 

•Anyone 
Interested in forming a ND croquet club should contact Tom Norton at 283-1383. 

•Fellowship 
of Christian Athletes will be playing volleyball at 5:00 today. Please meet by the flagpole on South Quad. Everyone is welcome. If you have any questions, please call Mark 



National League expansion decision to be made after June 12th, says White 
NEW YORK (AP)-Any de­bate on the National League's two new expansion cities will take place on June 12, the day of the vote, according to NL president Bill White. 
NL owners and their American League counterparts meet separately that day at Santa Monica, Calif. The two new teams, which begin play in 1993, need approval from nine of 12 NL teams and eight of 14 AL teams. 
"There will be other discus­sions, but I think they'll be able to do whatever lbey nave to do that day," White said Tuesday. 
The NL expansion committee has not yet disseminated in­formation to other owners, leading at least one owner to question whether a decision can be reached the day of the rec­ommendation. 
"Something this important, I can't see us walking into the meeting, hearing the report and taking a vote 20 minutes later," San Francisco Giants chairman Bob Lurie was quoted as saying in Tuesday's editions of the Rocky Mountain News. "You've got to give it some study, and I personally don't think that can be done in an hour or so. I need to do more than just look at it and vote. We're not going to rubber stamp it." 
NL spokeswoman Katy Feeney cautioned that the plans 
made a decisive jumper with 
16.9 seconds to play and Magic Johnson had 24 of his 38 points in the second half as Los Angeles swept Houston. 
The Rockets called a timeout after Scott's 18-footer from the baseline and missed a chance when they could not get the ball inbounded and it went over to the Lakers. Hakeem Olajuwon missed a 3-point attempt with 
8.6 seconds to go. 
Olajuwon had 21 points and 17 rebounds, and Otis Thorpe added 21 points, including 17 in the first half. James Worthy scored 22 points for the Lakers, who won the firSt two games at home. 
Thorpe scored 11 points in the first quarter and had 17 by halftime, leading the Rockets to a 46-39 lead at the break. But Johnson's 16 third-quarter points gave the Lakers a 66-65 lead after three periods. 
are subject to change. She also said some information would be given to owners before the quarterly meeting. 
Six cities are competing for the teams, which cost $95 mil­lion each -Buffalo, N.Y.; Denver; Miami; Orlando, Fla; St. Petersburg, Fla., and Washington, D.C. 
While Lurie complained, sev­eral owners on Tuesday said they are happy with the expan­sion process. 
"They've done a wonderful job of containing tbe mforma­tion within the National League expansion committee, which I think is really good," said Chicago White Sox chairman Jerry Reinsdorf, head of the joint ownership committee. "I 
really don't know how the other owners will be informed. I pre­sume we'll have an executive council meeting sometime in early June." 
The AL's demand for part of the $190 million expansion money must be settled before a vote. The negotiations are being handled by Pittsburgh Pirates chairman Douglas Danforth (also chairman of the expansion committee), San Diego Padre_s chairman Tom Werner, Milwaukee Brewers president Bud Selig and Toronto Blue Jays president Paul Beeston, along with the two league presidents. If they cannot reach an agreement, the dispute will 
.be settled by commissioner Fay Vmcent. 
Philadelphia Phillies president Bill Giles, a member of the ex­pansion committee, said many small issues remain to be de­cided. 
"The question is who will get the recommendation first: the National League, the executive council, the ownership commit­tee. It might happen all at the same time," Giles said. "As far as I know, there's a lot of little details as to the timing of ev­erything. Things like when tl> -­share m ilcensmg money, wnat kind of schedule we're going to have." 
The NL teams currently play 18 games against teams in their own division and 12 games against teams in the other division. The AL teams play 13 games against divisional rivais and 12 games against teams in the other division, but the NL is considering a plan to play 20 games against divisional rivals and six games against interdivisional opponents. 
Giles said some of the details may be decided after the vote on the cities. 

Why take your winter 
clothes home for the summer? 
Just pick up a storage box at Ziker Cleaners and fill it with your winter clothes. Then return the box to Zikers and your clothes will be cleaned and stored on hangers in our moth-proofvault all swnmer and ready for you when you return in the Fall. 
t Low cost storage t No payment until Fall 
t Protection from t More closet s~ce for moths/fire/theft your summer things 
Two Locations Near Campus! 

207 us 31 (across from Bob Evans) 
272-8093 
Ironwood at South Bend Ave. (next to Martin's) Greenwood Shopping Center 
272-9461 

----------~------~­
Wednesday, May 1, 1991 The Observer 
page 

CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
Wednesday 
7 p.m. "Women Gathering," (For further information call Ann Seckinger, 232-9750 or Michelle Prah, 239-5368.) O'Hara­Grace Townhouses. Sponsored by X,ear of Women. 
7:45p.m. Seminar: "St. Thomas on the Order of Learning", by Mark Jordan of NO-Medieval Institute. A part of the Graduate Student Union-Intellectual Life Committee. Maritain Center. Sponsored by Graduate Student Union. 
8 p.m. Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Collegiate Choir Spring Concert. Nancy Menk, conductor. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by music department, Saint Mary's College. 
9 p.m. Film: "Fire Maidens of Outer Space." Annenberg Auditorium, Snlte Museum. Sponsored by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre. 
LECTURES 
Wednesday 
4 p.m. Lecture: "Questioning the Just War Doctrine," Father William Lewers, director, Center for Civil and Human Rights. Auditorium, llesburgh Center. Sponsored by Institute for International Peace Studies. 
MENU 
Saint Mary's Notre Dame 
Baked Ham Barbeque Hibs Lemon Dill Cod London Broil Tacos Noodles Romanoff Deli Bar 
CALYIN Atll HOBBES BILL WATIERSON 
SUSIE DERI<\t6 SMS '(QU Wtll. ~ ~t.R£ ffil't>~ll'IG \o\\JS"~ M'P\.£5 \\! ~00 
~T "ER! ®W QE\1£R iW.~ '\11~T! ~ 1 -rnl~\( ! 
'IOO'o Bt1\t.R l 
C0~\~':.10£ 
I 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


*Young urban scientist 






NOIJ/£$ 
frlda.y 
MONTY PYTHON'S


fhursda.y 
THE MEANING OF UFE 
Cushing Auditorium 8:00p.m. and 1 0:30p.m. 
$2 

56 Everly Brothers offering 57" ... and--a good-night" 58 Actor Tamiroff 60 U.S.S.R. city 61 Zhou of China 62 Since, in Ayr 63 Superior, e.g. 
64 Author of "A Victorian Village" 
65 River duck 
DOWN 1 Secreted · 2 Use a blue pencil 3 One of Jacob's wives 4 Gymnasium for 
Spartan wrestlers 5 In a panic 
6 Small drum 7 Once more a Spare 29Wings 9 Attack verbally 
30 -coming 10 Released from , (showing 
52 Used up 
46 Rent

11 Sourpuss promise) 
53 Respiratory

12 Eat 31 Carried 48 Namesakes of 
sound

Benjamin's first 
13 --and 32 Icelandic 
son 54 Scottish isle 
terminer literary works 55 Singer Turner 
21 Bonnet dweller? 34 Odomes of the 49 Pop singer Billy 22 Bone: Comb. Buffalo Bills 59 Blanc or Brooks form 37 Household 25 Actor Romero pest, for short 
Answers to any three clues in this 26 Divert 38 Tennis player puzzle are available by touch-tone 27 Unbending 39 Global area in phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75a: each 20 Trifled the news minute). 

ACROSS 
1 Beatles film 5 Play for time 10 Kind of 
chamber 14 Brainchild 15 Port in Crete 16 Department in a 
hospital 17 Make a call 1 BAt right angles 
to a ship's keel 19 Part of a mansard 20Champ's 
epithet: 1937-49 23 One with ESP 24 Egyptian cobra 25 Took away, with 
"off" 20 Kind of baby 33 Eastern V.I.P~ 
34 Star of "48 
HRS." 35 Cluster of seals 36 Marvelous 
Marvin's successor 40"--was saying ..." 41 Actor Warren --: 1928-82 42 Resort in Sicily 43 Embarrassed 45 Open spaces in sylvan places 
47 German theologian: 1486-1543 
48 S. African of Huguenot descent 
49 Words from the champ of champs 







Sports 
page 20 Wednesday, May 1, 1991 
Carrie Miller hopes to lift Irish softball to new peaks 

The ClJser.ter /.km lbd< Chrissie Miller take a cut in a semen's softball game earlier this season. She is one of the top recruits on the team. 
By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame softball me­dia guide lists as one of the team's goals this season as "to establish itself nationwide as a legitimate major college softball team." 
A pretty lofty goal for a pro­gram entering only its third season of NCAA Division I play, some would argue. 
But with recruits like fresh­man sensation Carrie Miller, the Irish might be nearing the fulmillment of their aspirations. 
"I can't wait to see her three years down the road," said ju­nior catcher Amy Folsom. "She'll really carry this team the next couple of years." 
Miller, a native of Los Altos, Cal., posted a .363 batting av­erage, 0.50 ERA and one per­fect game her senior year at Saint Francis Academy. She also played on a Twin Creek Diamonds team that finished third at the 1990 American Softball Association national championships. 
She was recruited by Cal­Santa Barbara, Indiana and 
South Florida-the Bulls have won over 63 percent of their games and are one of the top teams in the South-as well as Notre Dame. 
So why would she shun all those established programs to play for a third-year squad in a no-name conference? 
"I knew that Notre Dame was building a softball program, and that was really exciting to me, to be part of that process," Miller said. "To build a program is going to be challenging." 
"Carrie comes from a very strong softball background," Irish coach Brian Boulac said. "Hopefully, that's the type of athlete we can attract now. If we want to strengthen our pro­gram, then we need to attract athletes who have played at that level." 
After some early season diffi­culties, Miller has made a smooth transition to the college game. Her average~-1, which has been in the .310-.320 range, has leveled off at .286, third on the team. She leads the team in RBI (18) and is second in hits 
(32) and on-base percentage (.325). 
"As a freshman, she has had the uncanny ability to get the clutch hit," Folsom noted. "I don't know how many times she's got the winning run home." 
"Every time I go up to bat, I look to get a hit, and I don't think about the situation that much," Miller added. "So in a sense, I put that kind of pres­sure on me every at-bat, so when it (the winning run) is there, it's nothing different." 
Even more of a rarity, how­ever, is Miller's two-way ability. Not only is she an outstanding hitter, but when she isn't in the outfield, she also is a key mem­ber of Notre Dame's pitching staff. 
"I've always been a utility player, and I like playing differ­ent positions beside pitching because if you get bored at one, you can always fall back to an­other," Miller explained with a smile. 
"Most pitchers, if they hit well, can only hit in a game she's not pitching," Folsom said. "Carrie has such concen­
see MILLER/page 17 

Notre Dame baseball squad hopes to get back on the winning track in doubleheader with Valparaiso 
Special to The Observer 

After watching their 18-game win streak end when they dropped the final game in a four-game series with the Saint Louis Billikens, the Irish base­ball squad will attempt to start a new streak this afternoon when they face the Valparaiso Crusaders this afternoon at 2:00p.m. on Jake Kleine Field. 
The gametime is a switch from the previously announced starting time of 5:00 p.m., and the two teams will play a dou­bleheader. 
A home run from senior Frank Jacobs would give sole possession of first place in the Notre Dame record books in just his third season of baseball. Jacobs is currently tied with Dan Peltier and Tim Hutson on the homer charts. 
"They'll come ready to play," said sophomore Eric Danapilis. "(Beating Notre Dame) would be a big win for them. We'll have to be ready." 
While disappointed that they lost, Danapilis wasn't overly concerned with the streak. 
"Streaks don't mean that much. Baseball's the kind of game you lose sometimes," he said. 
The two hurlers the Irish are hoping can revive the streak are David Sinnes and Chris Michalak. Through the University of Illinois-Chicago game last week, Sinnes was 2-1 with 59 strikeouts in 59 in­nings, while Michalak was 5-1 with a 2.75 ERA. 
This weekend, when they face Detroit, will be the last time the Irish play at home before the end of the semester. 

Some not-so serious choices to consider for the open ND position 

Rich Kurz 
Associate Sports Editor 
Dear Mr. Rosenthal: 

With the first three early frontrunners for the open Notre Dame basketball coaching job out of the race, Mike Kryzewski, Pete Gillen and Bobby Cremins have left the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment in a quandry. 
Considering this, I have de­cided to offer up some names that you may not have thought of, but may want to consider: 
•Dick 
Vitale: When Bobby Cremins turned down the offer to interview with the Irish, he suggested Vitale, so I guess I'm not the frrst to think of him. But hey, his daughter is a freshman here, so he wouldn't have so far to travel to visit her. It's been awhile since he's coached college ball, but I'm sure he can make the adjustment. Besides, even if he didn't win basketball games, he'd sure put some fans in the seats. 

•Bo 
Jackson: Does Bo know basketball? It wouldn't be all that big of a gamble, since he's done pretty well with the other sports he's player. He'd also whip the basketball team into the strongest squad in the· country, and Notre Dame could save money on a strength coor­dinator. And since he must be getting pretty bored sitting around rehabilitating his knee, I bet he'd take the job. 


•Monk 
Malloy: Hey, I know he's busy being the president o the University and all that stuff, but he's a former Irish hoopster. and besides who would turn down a chance to coach the Irish (besides Kryzewski, Gillen and Cremins)? 

•Lou 
Holtz: Actually, Lou ad­dressed this very topic after the Blue-Gold game last Saturday. Said Lou, "I coached basketball when I did my student teaching. .. I thought I was a pretty good coach. My players had fun and they all graduated." Hey, what more could this school want from a basketball coach? 

•Buddy 
Ryan: He's been looking for work since the Eagles unceremoniously dumped him last January. As a matter of fact, he's probably down on his horse farm in Kentucky getting ready for the 


see COACHES/page 17 


NEW YORK (AP) -Chicago completed a 3-0 playoff sweep of the New York Knicks as Michael Jordan scored 14 of his 33 points during a 29-11 sec­ond-half spurt that carried the Bulls to a 103-94 victory Tuesday night. 
The Bulls, with their lOth consecutive win over the Knicks and seventh straight this sea­son, advanced to the second round of the Eastern Conference playoffs against the Philadelphia 76ers, who swept the Milwaukee Bucks. Will Perdue made it easy for the Bulls near the end, scoring 14 of his 16 in the last 13 minutes. 
The Bulls extended the mar­gin to 86-71 with 10:04 left in the game on a jumper and free 


Bulls, Sixers and Lakers win first-round sweeps 
Supersonics win to avoid being swept by Portland 
throw by Jordan, who relied on jump shots rather than his characteristic swooping moves to the basket. 
Jordan had nine baskets on jumpers, four on layups and one dunk, while teammate Scottie Pippen took over the flamboyant role with five layups and five dunks to account for all but one of his 21 points. Kiki Vandeweghe and Patrick Ewing scored 20 points each for the Knicks. 
76ers 121, Bucks 1 00 
PHILADELPHIA-Charles Barkley, leaping off a left knee encased in a brace, had 30 points and 12 rebounds as the PhiladelPhia beat Milwaukee to sweep their first-round playoff series. 
In addition to Barkley, who has worn a brace since return­ing from a sprain, Hersey Hawkins scored 26 points, Armon Gilliam 18 and Ron Anderson 16 in the 76ers first sweep of a playoff series since facing Milwaukee in 1985. 
Philadelphia fell behind by seven points early in the first period but surged ahead with a 16-4 rally and never trailed thereafter. 
Alvin Robertson led Milwaukee with 26 points and Frank Brickowski added 23. 
see NBA!page 18 






