
VOL. XXIII NO. 85 MONDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 1991 
• .THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Seven U.S. Marines dead from 'friendly fire' 
HIYADII. Saudi Arabia (AP)­Investigators have found that stwnn Marines wnre killed by a missile firnd by an American warplane during a fierce armor battle along the Kuwaiti border last week, U.S. military ollicials said Sunday. 
Thn offieials said four other Marines killed in the battle were hit by an Iraqi tank OPERATION round. apparently the first U.S. 
DESERT STORM

ground fatalities from enemy lim. · 
Tlw death of another Marine, apparnntly by a U.S. cluster • Weekend roundup/ page 6 bomb, remainnd under investi­• GCAG protest I page 6 gation, the ollicials said. • Cheney remarks I page 6 
The military reported at its 
• World reactions I page 7 

daily brinfing that two more 
• Military updates I page 7

U.S. aircraft -including a 
• Jordan's Hassan I page 7

giant B-52 bomber -had 
• Map with attacks I page 7 

crashnd during missions re­Jatt~d to Operation Desert Storm. The crashes brought to Riyadh overnight, injuring 29 22 the number of U.S. aircraft people, mostly by flying glasslost in thn war, including eight 
when debris crashed into a res­

to non-combat causes. 
idential area, Saudi authorities 

Marine Maj. Gen. Hobert said. .Johnston. the command AP Photo
U.S. aircraft on "counter Scud spoknsman. also reported that patrol" spotted the launchings A US Marine guard carries the casket bearing the remains of Marine Cpt. Manuel Rivera Jr. outside St. one of two Iraqi Scud missiles and attacked the sites, causing Anselm's Roman Catholic Church in the Bronx borough of New York Thursday morning. Rivera, the first fired toward Israel overnight what appeared to be secondary New Yorker to die in Operation Desert Storm, was killed when his jet crashed on a training mission. 
apparently landed in Jordan, 
explosions at one, a command 

which has remained friendly to communique reported. by an Iraqi tank round, John­guided manually or by a heat­The helicopter was on an Baghdad. The report on the friendly fire ston said. Two other Marines . seeking mechanism, probably escort mission Saturday when 
llownvnr. Jordanian officials said a Marine reconnaissance were wounded in the clash. was fired from an Air Force A-it crashed in Saudi Arabia,who spoke on condition of vehicle, known as an lAY, was At the time, Johnston said, 10 Warthog, a close-air support killing both pilots. anonymity said no missile had involved in a head-to-head bat­the lAYs were firing TOW mis­aircraft designed as a "tank The Stratofortress bomber 
landed in .Jordan. And Israeli tle with Iraqi tanks along the siles toward the Iraqi tanks and buster." was returning from a bombing
officials would only say that getting Sagger anti-tank
border Tuesday night when a mission over Kuwait on Satur­two missiles landed in the Maverick missile fired by a U.S. missiles in return fire. Twenty­U.S. command officials said day when it crashed in the In­
"central" area-which in­
warplane hit the vehicle, killing two Iraqi tanks were destroyed the latest air losses, the B-52 dian Ocean, short of its base at dudes thn occupind West Bank. seven Marines. in the battle, U.S. officials said. and a Marine AH-1 Cobra heli­Diego Garcia, an atoll 2,000Another Scud was destroyed Four others aboard a second Military sources said the copter, were due to non-combat miles south of the Persian Gulf,
by a U.S. Patriot missile over lAY were killed after it was hit Maverick, a missile that can be causes. officials said. 
Soviets to speak on 'what's really going on' in U.S.S.R. 
By SARAH VOIGT Forum on Contemporary Is­In July 1990 Popov resigned forces and full political plural­Recently, Notkin was a visiting News Writer sues." from the Communist Party ism. Fulbright Professor at the Uni­"We thought that Popov and along with Anatoly Sobchak, Notkin, professor of rhetoric versity of Wisconsin in Madison Moseow's City Council Chair­Notkin would be timely speak­mayor of Leningrad, and Boris at the University of Moscow, is lecturing on "Heporting on the man Gavrill Popov and promi­ers because of the tension Yeltsin, president of the Rus­also the anchorman of the pop­U.S.S.R. Under Glasnost and rwnt journalist and interpreter within the Soviet Union and in sian Republic. Popov claimed in ular Soviet television program Perestroika." Boris Notkin will provide first thn Baltic states," Student Body a public statement that he quit "Good Evening Moscow." This hand insights into the current President Rob Pasin com­the Party to form a new coali­program demonstrates the new Popov and Notkin will also state of affairs in the Soviet mented. tion that would offer changes in era of glasnost in its focus on give a news conference at 4:30 Union in a lecture Tuesday at 7 the Soviet Union, such as a fully previously untouchable p.m. Tuesday in the Center for 
p.m. at Stt~pan Center. As Moscow's first democrati­depoliticized news media and subjects such as crooked Continuing Education. Both the cally elected mayor, Popov free market innovations. bureaucrats, shoddy medical lecture and news conference Thn h~cturn, titled "What's He­promised strong local initia­care and Stalin's purges. are free and open to the public. 
ally (;oing on in the Soviet tives to challenge the Gor­Popov, now a member of the Notkin has also served as an This lecture series is funded Union." is part of the Notre bachev government and won a Moscow City Council, is work­interpreter for Ronald Reagan by the Advisory Councils of the Damn's Student Government's decisive victory over the Com­ing towards the rapid introduc­and Edward Kennedy on their Colleges of Arts and Letters and frne lecturn series, "A Public munist Party loyalists. tion of free-market economic journeys to the Soviet Union. Business Administration. 
Investigators say air traffic controller sent planes onto same runway 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -An air traffic voice shouting: "What the hell!" controller directed a USAir jetliner and a Moments later, controllers smaller, commuter plane onto the same acknowledged a collision and a fire that airport runway, resulting in a crash that had occurred on the runway. killed as many as 32 people, investigators Burnett, who gave an oral account of said. the tapes, would not say whether the 
The National Transportation Safety controller had erred. Board (NTSB) released highlights "We don't deal in terms of fault. That's Saturday night of about five minutes of a word the safety board doesn't use," he conversation between the control tower said. and pilots just before the crash Friday Within seconds of touching down after night at Los Angeles International a westbound descent over Los Angeles, Airport. the twin-jet USAir Boeing 737 ran into 
Safety board spokesman Jim Burnett the back of the smaller plane, which was said the taped, tower traffic showed about to take oil'. USAir Flight 1493 twice asked the Eighteen people from the USAir flight controller for permission to land and re­were listed as presumed dead. Two ceived no response. .confirmed deaths on the jet include the 
About two minutes before the crash, a pilot, Capt. Colin Shaw, 48, of controller directed commuter Skywest Washington, D.C., said USAir Flight 5569 with 12 people aboard to spokeswoman Agnes Huff. enter Runway 24-Left for takeoff, and the All 12 people aboard the Skywest plane tape had the same controller giving the were presumed dead, including the pilot 
L.._---------------------------------' USAir pilot permission to land on 24-Left. AP/Karl Tate The tape also included an unidentified see PLANES I page 5 

Monday, February 4, 1991
page 2 
The Observer 

' 
INSIDE COLUMN 

FORECAST: Mostly cloudy and mild today, high
Elephant art 

around 50. Cloudy and mild tonight, low in the mid -30s. 
Partly sunny and mild tomorrow, high 40s. 

could help out Snite 
TEMPERATURES: 

H L 
36 27 66 42 58 41 59 38 

artists 

50 34 65 45 
Now before the art-: 

lovers on campus ignite 

Denver 60 27
themselves in rage, I ask 

Detroit 54 28 Honolulu 77 68 Houston 65 31 
them to at least read the Florentine 
first part of this column Hoelker 

Indianapolis 58 30 London 37 32
and tell me what they Assoc. News Editor 

Los Angeles 70 47
think. Deal? 

Madrid 45 34 M1am1 Beach 76 69 Moscow 10 10
The story I'm about to relate I heard before 

New York 64 40
Christmas, so a few of the minute details 

Paris 30 25 Phtladelphta 62 31
might be confused, but it is true nonetheless. 

Portland. Ore 55 48
You can check with NBC if you don't believe 

Rtyadh 70 54 Rome 43 36 St. LOUIS 65 37 65 54 
me. 

52 35 50 36 
There's a character in Phoenix by the name 
of Ruby, and Ruby is a painter. Ruby is an 

64 33 
abstract impressionist whose paintings have amassed over $40,000 I believe, and has had her work displayed in local museums. Ruby donates all the proceeds to charitable causes. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE
When asked, museum visitors gave various opinions of the work, most of which seemed favorable. 

WORLD NATIONAL 
The only problem is, Ruby is an elephant. 

Church accuses Army of massacre Sports commentator Axthelm dies 
She is a member of the Phoenix Zoo where, 

• SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador -The Roman • PITTSBURGH-Football commentator Pete Axthelm
when her caretakers noticed her peculiar 

Catholic Church's human rights agency Sunday accused was remembered Sunday as a brilliant writer and an avidhabit of sweeping her trunk in a certain way, army troops of the massacre of 15 peasants last month horse racing fan. Axthelm, a longtime Newsweekthey put canvas underneath and paintbrushes at a hamlet north of the capital. The eight women and columnist who joined ESPN in 1987, died Saturday at ain her trunk. Her caretakers switch different seven men, ranging in age from 14 to 68 years, were Pittsburgh hospital of liver failure at age 47. "He was acolored brushes for variety, and the result is roused from sleep in their bamboo-and-mud homes the brilliant writer and enriched our program. It's tragic to 
an abstract impressionist painting as she 

night of Jan. 21 by hooded men wearing dark uniforms. lose somebody who had so much to contribute," ESPN sweeps her trunk to and fro. All the paintings' The houses were ransacked and the victims shot and announcer Mike Patrick said. Axthelm enteredproceeds go the zoo. Isn't that nice? 
stabbed to death. "The characteristics of the case and Presbyterian-University Hospital on Jan. 27 and was in the manner in which it happened ... lead logically to the the intensive-care unit awaiting a liver transplant,When people saw the paintings they said, presumption that all the evidence indicates solely and hospital spokesman Frank Raczkiewicz said. Axthelm"Gee, that's neat, and it means this or that." 
exclusively the responsibility of members of the 1st provided commentary and picks on NFL games on ESPN'sWhen they were told it was an elephant they Infantry Brigade," said a report by the church's Legal "NFL GameDay" and "NFL PrimeTime." He also coveredsaid, "Gosh, an elephant did that?" then let 
Aid office, El Salvador's most widely respected human horse racing. 
their mouths gape open in apparent disbelief. 

rights organization. 
As if abstract paintings require more skill than an elephant possesses. 

Silber: Educators should run schools
My question is: Why isn't this art? Is it? If a 

Somali Cabinet sworn in • BOSTON-John Silber is back
dog defecates on a canvas, smears it with its • LONDON -The Somalian Cabinet was sworn in at the helm of Boston University paws, then someone hangs it on a wall, is it Sunday and the interim president appealed for aid to after losing a long, hard-foughtart? Is anything connected with nature art? I help the nation recover from the bloody insurgency that campaign to be Massachusettsrealize an exact definition is impossible, but ended the 22-year rule of President Mohamed Siad governor, and he shows no signs ofdon't we have to draw a line somewhere? 

Barre, Radio Mogadishu reported. The broadcast, wear. As he turns his attention back monitored in Britain, did not _specify how many minis­to education, he has returned to theIn other art news. the Snite has a faculty art ters were sworn in. Ali Mahdi Mohamed, who took the theme that management ofdisplay on hand (or did last week when I presidency of the Horn of Africa nation last week, has America's troubled schools shouldstopped in). Father Austin has a new "one­promised fair, democratic elections "as soon as possi­be in the hands of 
man show" of metal sculpture there, and 

ble." Mahdi, 52, led opposition to Siad Barre during the trainededucators. not interferingalthough I didn't see any official name for the month-long battle for the capital of Mogadishu. Rebel bureaucrats. "Any parent who's competent to teach hisdisplay, I believe it's called "Welder's Dream." 
leaders claim 4,000 people were killed in the fighting. own child can teach him at home. If they lack that
Individual pieces in the display include 

Mahdi was selected as interim president by the rebel knowledge, there's no way they can run the schools,""Rusting Rotted Refuse" and "Blech." 
United Somali Congress' 12-member Executive Silber said in an interview in his BU office. BU's president Committee, a council of clan elders. since 1971, the 64-year-old Silber has not ruled out
This delightful disregard for taste is joined 

another run for public office and said he will remainby a "Painkiller Quilt," (artist thankfully involved in public debate over education by continuing to unknown) a study in idiocy and too much write and lecture. 
spare time. My recommendation is to indeed bring some pain killers when viewing it, if you can stand looking at it for that long. 

OF INTEREST
And if anyone can come up with a few ideas as to how an elephant can make art, give the Snite a call. Maybe they can use the help. 

• PATRICIA O'HARA, vice president for student • PASQUERILLA EAST HALL needs dealers Affairs, and Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, will for its Feb 22 Monte Carlo Nite. Please contact Patricia 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 

conduct an open meeting to discuss issues raised by Stanford or Charmaine Martinez at 283-4308 if inter­
are those of the author and not necessarily 

students of color relating to allotment of space in ested_ 
those ofThe Observer. 

LaFortune and the use of Theodore's on Tuesday, Febru­ary 12, at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. All 

students are welcome to attend. 
Ihe Obse~r-. 

MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219)-239-7471
Today's Staff: News 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 1 , 1991 
• In 1783: Britain declared a formal cessation of hostilities with its 
Graphics Ann Marie Hartman Production 

former colony, the United States of America. 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX ...Ill. _
Pat Midden Brad Galko Ann Buff 

•In 1789: Electors unanimously chose George Washington as first0 19
Rene Ferran Melissa Cusack 

246.67 Million 187.40 "' 

president of the United States (the results of the election were not
Business 

S&P COMPOSITE .m... 
Colleen Gannon Accent Systems 

tabulated until April 6).
343.05 .., 0.88 
Denisse Marion-Landais Mike Whitman Paul Froning 

• In 1861 : Delegates from six southern states met in Montgomery,
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 2,730.69 • 5.70 
Alicia Reale Shonda Wilson Fritz Valsaint 

Ala., to form the Confederate States of America. 
Circulation Sports Viewpoint 

• In 1975: More than 22,000 people died when a severe
Bill O'Roukrke Dave Dieteman Dave Certo 
PRECIOUS METALS 

earthquake struck Guatemala and Honduras. GOLD f $2.70 to$ 366.1 0/oz. 
Matt Novak Rolando de Aguiar Jay Colucci 

• Five years ago: President Reagan, in his fifth State of the 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday 

Union address, proclaimed "a great American comeback" from years
SILVER t-6.7¢ to$ 3.872/oz.
through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The 

of economic woe, and told a joint session of Congress that America
Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 

was "growing stronger every day."
rights are reserved. 


Monday, February 4, 1991 The Observer page 3 


New goals proposed for A & L 

For further information contact: 
Wisconsin 
Study Abroad Programs 
• 
Platteville 308 Warner Hall University of Wisconsin-Platteville 1 University Plaza Platteville, WI 53818-3099 
(608) 342-1726 
By ALICIA REALE News Writer 
A committee of Arts and Let­ters faculty and students has been working for the past 18 months to set forth goals that the college can aspire to, ac­cording to Jennifer Warlick, associate dean and chair of the committee on the quality of un­dergraduate education in Arts and Letters. 
The committee was formed in the early fall of 1989 said War­lick at a Friday Forum titled "Gender Issues in the Report of the Committee on the Quality of Undergraduate Education in Arts and Letters." Their pur­pose is. to examine recent changes in the quality of Arts and Letters education and to make recommendations for im­provements within the college. 
Their report has "run head­long into opposition," she said. 
"The committee believes that the college curriculum should give explicit emphasis on the is­sues of class, gender and race," it reads. The report recom­mends that a further emphasis be placed on these issues in the Core course. 
The committee felt there was not much need to justify their recommendation, according to Warlick. "It was rather self-ev­ident" and not controversial within the committee, she said. 
"The college council has met arguments under the guise that these three problems don't ex­ist," said Warlick. She said she is pessimistic about the rec­ommendation passing. "The fu­ture is quite uncertain," said Warlick. 
Some _departments, such as the social sciences, are already meeting the proposed require­ments, said Warlick, yet others will have a harder time achiev­ing them. 
One objection to the commit­tee's recommendation involves the practical difficulties of im­plementation by next semester. According to Warlick, the committee is looking more to­wards the future; "We need to shape new resources (now) to serve these (future) goals," she said. 
"The committee was a nice scheme to give the power to the faculty, yet no one has con­gratulated us," said Warlick. "We need to go baek and look at the curriculum, (and ask) does it reflect what it should reflect?" she said. 
The Friday Forum was spon­sored by the C.S.C. 

Death toll from tainted heroin reaches 10 
/ 
NEW YORK (AP) -The death toll from a potent "designer" drug sold in the Bronx climbed to 10 Sunday as police cars cruised through drug-plagued neighborhoods in three states to plead with heroin addicts to stay clear of it. 
But as word spread that ad­dicts should avoid "Tango and Cash"-the name marked on the packages -police said at least one dealer simply changed the name and continued to sell the killer drug. 
Since the drug was first sold Friday afternoon, four people have died in New York, five in New Jersey and one in Con­necticut. More than 100 people were taken to hospitals in the tri-state area. 
Authorities say preliminary tests show the heroin contained a kind of fentanyl, a powerful tranquilizer used in surgery that has been redesigned many times by underground chemists seeking to create synthetic forms of heroin. 
In Harlem and the south Bronx, Paterson, N.J., and Hartford, Conn., police with loudspeakers drove through the neighborhoods warning people to avoid the drug and to seek medical help immediately if they had taken any. 
In Newark, N.J., Detective Daniel Collins said the publicity apparently led at least one al­leged dealer, identified as Michael Johnson, 33, of Newark to change the name on the packages to "Goodfellow." 
After interviewing overdose victims, Newark police arrested Johnson for possession and sale of narcotics. They also arrested Edwardo Acevedo, 27, of Newark for selling to an under­cover police officer, Collins said. 
But police were no closer to 
American Heart .:a 
Association ~ 
finding the main supplier, said city police spokesman Scott Bloch. 
Police said the drug was sold beginning 4 p.m. Friday in a Bronx area known as a drug bazaar and a magnet for out­of-state buyers. 
On Saturday, city Health Commissioner Woodrow Myers said preliminary tests indicated the heroin was laced with an­other chemical, methyl fentanyl, which makes it 27 times more potent. 
Myers said the drug over­whelms opiate receptors in the brain, "resulting in coma or respiratory arrest." 
Fentanyl and its variants have been blamed for more than 100 overdose deaths in the United States during the 1980s. 
Toxicology test results from police labs weren't expected until Monday. 



Applications· are now being accepted for the following positions: Managing Editor Business Manager A three-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m. Wednesday, February 6. 
News Editor  Advertising Manager  
Sports Editor  Ad Design Manager  
Accent Editor  Production Manager  
Viewpoint Editor  OTSManager  
Saint Mary's Editor  Controller  
Photo Editor  Art Director  
Systems Manager  

A two-page personal statement and a resume must be submitted to Kelley Tuthill by 2 p.m. Friday, February 8. 

with Gavriil Popov Boris Notkin 
•U.S.S.R's 
Leading Free Market Economist •Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Moscow

•Moscow's 
First Democratically Elected Mayor 

•Anchorman of "Good Evening Moscow"

•July, 
1990, Resigned From the Communist Party •Modern Day Muckraker in the U.S.S.R 


Tuesday, February 5, 1991 7:00pm Stepan Center 
The lecture is free and open to the public. 
-



~TUDE NT 
GOYiRNMiNl 
This lecture was made possible through the generosity of several members of the Arts & Letters Council and the Business College Council. 
----~ 
Monday, February 4, 1991 The Observer page 5 

before jumping to the ground. 
Passenger Ronald Givens, 36, of Pickerington, Ohio, said pas­sengers crowded at emergency exits before the doors were opened. 
"The door got jammed up so bad I had to jump across the top of someone, I don't know who," he said. "I immediately started pulling people out of the doorway." 
Fifteen of the 27 injured were treated at hospitals and re­leased. TWelve remained hospi­talized Sunday, including the first officer of the USAir plane who was in critical condition with burns, respiratory burns and fractures, said USAir spokeswoman Agnes Huff. 
Investigators have yet to talk to the first officer, David Kelly, 32, of Washington, D.C. 
The danger of renewed fire from the planes' fuel and possi­ble collapse of the twisted wreckage of the larger plane slowed the search for bodies over the weekend. 
The smaller plane was crushed under the jet and the two went into a fiery skid be­fore smashing into an unused building near the runway. 
Wreckage of the commuter plane remained beneath the jet's fuselage until the tail sec­tion of the Boeing jet was pulled away early Sunday. 

Planes 
continued from page 1 
and the airline's local manager at the plane's destination in Palmdale, 40 miles north of Los Angeles.· 
Also aboard the Skywest plane was Scott Gilliam, 33, an air traffic controller based in Palmdale, said his wife, Connie. Gilliam was on his way home from a business trip in Atlantic City. He had called his wife and told her he took out a travel in­surance policy "just in case anything ever happens to me," Mrs. Gilliam said. 
Eight bodies were pulled from the wreckage Sunday, bringing the total number of bodies recovered to 14. 
"The (NTSB) announcement ... that both planes had been cleared to use the same runway was a relief to the employees of Skywest, who at least know that our airplane and crew were where they were told to be by the air traffic controller," said Ron Reber, Skywest's vice president for marketing. 
Sixty-nine people survived from the USAir flight, despite raging flames and choking smoke that filled the jet's inte­rior. Some were able to climb over seats to reach exits and make their way along one wing 
ND student 
•


rece1ves scholarship 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
Russell Athletic Corporation awarded a $1000 scholarship to a Notre Dame student in conjunction with the "Earn from History" promotion sponsored by llussell and the JACC Varsity Sportswear Shop, according to Joe Sowder, Russell Athletic representative. 
Aimee Barnas, a freshman from Chicago, received the scholarship towards this semester's tuition when her name was randomly drawn from the qualifying, entries. "I was very excited to win the scholarship, considering the difficulty of paying the high cost of tuition at Notre Dame," Barnas said. 
To qualify for the final drawing, appllcants must have correctly identified the historical figures of Napoleon, Venus de Milo and Socrates, all pictured on a full page ad In The Observer last December. 
Additional names were added when applicants correctly identified the same three historical figures pictured on a display table located outside the JACC Varsity Shop during a Christmas sale. · 
Russell Corporation, suppliers of collegiate athletic uniforms. rf.1cently entered the bookstore market. In order to promote their bookstore products, Russell ran the "Earn from History" promotion at 20 major universities across the United States. 
"llussell does not give away shoes and jerseys. We believe that the future belongs in the education of those leading the future," Sowder said, "Hussell wants to play a part in that ed­ucation." 
Correction 
A Jan. 29 article about eating disorders was unclear in speci­fying on what dates Rita Don­ley, assistant director of Uni­versity Counseling Services, will available to counsel stu­dents who may have a friend with an eating disorder. She will be available from 4-4: 45 
p.m. on five Wednesdays: Feb. 13, 27, March 37, April 10, and 24. 


,.,....-...

War weary 
AP Photo 

An American Marine wearing full chemical suit and flak jacket pauses Thursday during the battle for Khafji after over the radio that his comrades in a recon patrol were pinned down by Iraqi fire. 

buy tt,eM At +h~ I ) 0 offiCe. (2!'d flooR· LAfo~lvtJe) OFZ At fhe doof( wtuL e_ 
5 UffLi e s LAst. 

OPERATION DESERT STORM 
page 6 Monday, February 4, 1991 
WEEKEND GULF ROUNDUP 
GCAC protests press censorship 
Gulf-related bombings in Lebanon, Peru 
• PERU, LEBANON-Bombs exploded Saturday in Peru and Lebanon in terrorist attacks apparently linked to the Persian Gulf War, authorities said. At least six people were injured. Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has urged Muslims around the world to attack interests of allied countries. The bomb at the Kuwait and Lebanon Bank in suburban Khalde, south of Beirut, caused extensive damage to the two-story building and injured two passers-by, said a police spokesman who cannot be named under standing regulations. The bank was closed for the weekend. Po­lice said it was the 14th bombing in Lebanon believed linked to the Gulf War. No group has claimed responsibility for any of the attacks. In Lima, Peru, pro-Cuban rebels exploded at least four bombs at a franchise of the Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant in Lima, a bomb squad spokesman said. One man was seriously injured when an outer wall of the restaurant crushed his car, the spokesman said. Three other people suffered minor injuries in the attack, carried out by the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement as a reprisal for U.S. involvement in the war. 

Iraqi missile strikes Israel 
• JERUSALEM-Another Iraqi Scud missile hit Israel on Saturday, causing no injuries or damage, the army said. It with­held the exact location of the hit. Army spokesman Brig. Gen. Nachman Shai did not say whether U.S.-supplied Patriot missiles were fired to counter the missile. Reporters in Tel Aviv, who have heard sounds of the Patriots being fired in the past, said they heard no such noise on Saturday. The army would not say whether the missile landed in Israel or in the occupied West Bank. The last two missiles that hit, on Jan. 28 and Jan. 31, landed in the predominantly Arab West Bank. Saturday's missile attack was the ninth aimed at Israel since the start of the Per­sian Gulf war on Jan. 17. 

Red Cross plans talks with Iran 
• GENEVA-The International Committee of the Red Cross on Friday renewed its appeal to both sides in the Persian Gulf War to respect international law and treat victims humanely. A Red Cross official said the neutral all-Swiss agency did not have enough information to enable an "objective assessment" of the number of civilian casualties or humanitarian needs in Iraq after two weeks of allied attacks. However, an agency statement warned of the threat of "irreversible devastation ... When the veil of censorship is lifted, the full horror of the suffering inflicted on the peoples of the region ... will be revealed for all to see," it said. Angelo Gnaediger, chief Middle East delegate, told a news conference the Red Cross planned to send a second consignment of emergency medical supplies from Jordan to Iraq. The first convoy left from Tehran for Baghdad on Thursday. He said communications with the 11 Red Cross officials in Iraq remained difficult. In the absence of radio and telephone links, the agency had to rely on information passed by land convoys. 

Lech Walesa: Willing to go to Baghdad 
• ROME-Polish President Lech Walesa was quoted Saturday as saying he is prepared to travel to Iraq when the time is right, calling it his duty as a Nobel Peace Prize winner. The Italian Catholic weekly "II Sabato" released excerpts of an interview with Walesa that will be published in this week's issue. "I am ready to go to Baghdad," he was quoted as saying. "I have a very precise duty that derives from the Nobel Peace Prize which was awarded to me." Walesa, who won the prize in 1983 when he was leader of the Solidarity labor union, said he didn't think a trip to Iraq would be opportune immediately but that the chance could come "in a short time." Walesa said not enough was done to avoid the Persian Gulf War and he lamented "lack of action" on the Palestinian question and other Middle East problems. Post-Communist Poland firmly backed the U.N. resolutions and sanctions against Iraq. 

B-52 and Cobra crash, killing two 
• RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -An Air Force B-52 bomber and a Marine Cobra helicopter gunship crashed in separate incidents, killing ~t least two U.S. airmen and leaving three missing, U.S. military officials said Sunday. Both crashes apparently were not related to combat. Maj. Gen. Robert Johnston told reporters. The AH-1 Cobra was on an escort mission in Saudi Arabia when it went down, killing its two crewmen, said Johnston, who pro­vided no further details. At least 26 Americans have been con­firmed killed in Operation Desert Storm. The B-52 bomber crashed in the Indian Ocean. apparently because of a mechanical problem, he said. Three crewmen were rescued and a search was under way for the three others, Johnston said. The incident brought to 27 the number of Americans missing in action since the Gulf War began on Jan. 17, according to the Pentagon. The huge, eight-engine bomber crashed late Saturday while heading back to its base on Diego Garcia after a bombing run, officials said. 

Iran takes cash donations for Iraq 
• NICOSIA, Cyprus-Iran opened a bank account for cash donations for the people of Iraq, and an official said the first shipment of medicines and powdered milk would be sent to Baghdad today, Tehran radio reported. Iranian officials decreed today the "day of compassion with the innocent people of Iraq." The day coincided with the 12th anniversary of the return from exile of the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, under whose lead­ership Iran fought the bloody 1980-88 war with Iraq. Khomeini died of cancer in June 1989. The Iranians have expressed outrage at what they describe as allied bombing of Iraqi civilians, and targets that they say have no military or economic significance. But Iranian officials said they also were unhappy that Iraqi planes had made emergency landings in Iran without prior permission. 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Writer 
The U.S. military has patron­ized the press, and, in turn, the public, by controlling the flow of information concerning the war in the Gulf, according to the Gulf Crisis Action Group (GCAG). 
Junior Christine Kempf led members of the GCAG Friday in a demonstration against press censorship and in a cross­planting ceremony to remember the. dead and wounded. Approximately 50 people participated. • 
In a stand opposite that of a large percentage of Americans, as indicated by various national polls, Kempf said that "the U.S. military has denied the press and our citizens access to the war by spoon-feeding the media selected tidbits of this horrific war." 
According to Kempf, the gov­ernment has not informed the public of both the successes and the failures of the events in the Middle East. "Because the 
Clashes continue 
nature of government is only to present the good," she contin­ued, "it is the duty of the press to seek the truth in its entirety." 
"It is obvious that there exists some classified information for the safety of our troops. but our government has overstepped this precaution" by withholding too much information, according to Tara Verdonk, senior. 
The rigid restrictions have even led to confusion about fa­tality figures, she said. 
"As a U.S. citizen, I am, in part, responsible for this war and, as such, I have a right to know what my government is doing," Verdonk said. "We need our government to end the pa­tronization not only in the Mid­dle East, but here at home, as well." 
Encouraging the public to remain informed by obtaining news from a variety of sources, Kempf said that "we must take the initiative to keep ourselves informed by actively seeking the truth, and by having the courage to absorb the horrors of war face to face -and not on a video screen." 
Members of the GCAG then planted crosses to commemo­rate the dead and wounded of Israel, the Western Allies, the Arab Allies, the Iraqi civilians, and the United States service­men. 
The United States govern­ment, concluded Kempf, has "turned the Gulf War into a game of Nintendo." 
Twenty-five people partici­pated in a candlelight proces­sion from the flag pole on South Quad to the Grotto on Friday. A candle was lit there for the victims of each side and their families. 
Father Tom McDermott, of Campus Ministry, led prayers and songs, followed by an all­night prayer vigil during which ND and Saint Mary's students alternated praying for peace. 
The GCAG held these events to commemorate the National Day for Student Activism, spon­sored by the National Network of Campuses Against the War. 
AP Photo 


A U.S. Marine from the 1st Marine Division fires a .50 calibre machine gun in the direction of the Saudi border town of Khafji during clashes with Iraqi troops that town Thursday. 
Bush leads national day of prayer 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush led the country in a national day of prayer for peace Sunday, as his defense chief said "the world has a long-term interest in seeing to it that Saddam Hussein is never able" to wage war again. 
Defense Secretary Dick Ch­eney said that should Saddam remain in power after the Per­sian Gulf War ends, the allies might want to maintain sanc­tions to prevent him from re­building his military. 
Cheney said the Iraqi army is "formidable," but that Saddam already poses a reduced threat because much of his nuclear, chemical and biological weapons capability has been destroyed. 
Cheney said the time for talk and diplomacy was past and that only Saddam's withdrawal from Kuwait would end the Gulf War. "We are not inter­ested in a promise or a pledge or a commitment to withdraw from Kuwait," he said. 
Bush, meanwhile, marked Sunday's "national day of prayer" by attending a chapel service at Camp David. Md. The Right Rev. John Maury Allin, the former presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, offered a pastoral prayer and country­western singer Moe Bandy sang several hymns. 
Among those attending the service were Barbara Bush, daughter' Dorothy LeBlond and about four dozen others, in­cluding Marines and Navy per­sonnel serving at the mountain­top presidential retreat, ac­cording to White House spokesman Sean Walsh. 
Bush last week designated Sunday as a national day of prayer and asked all Americans to "turn to our greatest power and unite together in prayer." He was returning to the White House later Sunday. 
Just a week after 75,000 anti­war activists demonstrated outside the White House, a flag­waving crowd of 3,500 rallied Sunday in support of Bush's Gulf policies. 
Some of the demonstrators burned an Iraqi flag as they marched down Pennsylvania Avenue, past the small, perma­nent encampment of anti-war demonstrators across from the White House. 
Cheney, interviewed on ABC's "This Week With David Brink­ley," said Iraq still maintains the heart of its military strength -a "formidable" army. But he expressed confi­dence the allied coalition can liberate Kuwait without using nuclear weapons. 
"We're making significant progress against his ground forces inside Kuwait and southern Iraq," Cheney said. 
"I am hopeful and confident that we can resolve it by con­ventional means," he added. "I would not, at this point, advo­cate the use of nuclear weapons." 
The Army, meanwhile, played down the discovery of a transmission defect in the Bradley Fighting Vehicle. The Associated Press on Saturday reported that the service was rushing to inspect the Bradleys after a Pentagon memo warned the defect could limit the vehi­cles' maximum speed. 


Monday, February 4, 1991 OPERATION DESERT STORM page 7 

U.S. knocks out Iraqi missile launcher, loses one Air Force plane 
THE AIR WAR 

• U.S. Officials on Sunday


ROUNDUP 
reported two more losses
Sunday,Feb.3 
in the air war: An AH-1 Cobra 
Scud attack on Israel helicopter gunship that crashed 
No damage was reported in Saudi Arabia and a 8-52 
from two missiles that hit 
Ls.r.ael._ 
SCUD ATTACK ON RIYADH 
• The Riyadh scud was hit by a U.S. Patriot missile, but fragments landed on a residential 
~Riyadh

neighborhood, damaging apartment buildings. 29 people were reported injured. 
• The U.S. military command in Riyadh said that minutes after the Scud attacks, U.S. bombers struck two of the launch sites. 
As of 3 p.m. EST 
I>HAIIHAN, Saudi Arabia (AP) -American "Scud patrol" jets, in a swift counter-strike, pounced on two Iraqi missile launchers Sunday and may have knocked one out. But the Air Porce also lost a big one ­a B-52 down in the Indian Ocean. 
Three of the giant bomber's crewmen were plucked safely from the sea, and a search con­tinund for the other three, the 
U.S. command said. It said a mechanical problem was prob­ably to blam11. 
As ground fire died down for the moment on the northern front linr,s, the Desert Storm al­lies prnssed their relentless air war. 
The U.S. command said the air campaign had passed the 40,000-sortie mark -some 10,000 more missions than wern flown against Japan in thn final 14 months of World War II. 
Jordan's Hassan predicts Saddam will not surrender 
NEW YOHK (APJ -Crown Prince Hassan of Jordan said Sunday that the United States had left Saddam Hussein no op­tion but to "fight to the bitter end" and he predicted the Iraqi leader would chose martyrdom over surrender. 
Hassan, a guest on the CBS news show "Face the Nation," also predicted it would take generations to erase Muslim ill­will against the United States and its allies in the war. 
Thn crown prince, intervinwed from Amman, Jordan, said Saddam would nevnr surrender. 
"Whnn the United States says no faen-saving, no linkage, no negotiations, and then un­leashns this tremendous force of destruetion, eapitulation is simply not of the Iraqi style, nor is it the Iraqi leadership style," said Hassan, the brother of Jordan's King Hussein. "I think it's very, very clear that there is no option other than to fight to the bitter end, and we 
Most major bridges in the Kuwait region have now been destroyed or badly damaged, the command said, and the Iraqis have had to throw makeshift pontoon spans across rivers -new easy targets. 
Air strikes Sunday rocked Iraqi targets from Kuwait to Baghdad. Late in the afternoon, a missile -probably a U.S. cruise missile -slammed into downtown Baghdad, sending up a column of white smoke, according to an Associated Press report from the Iraqi capital. 
Fresh reports came in of air attacks on civilian vehicles on the road from Baghdad to Jor­dan. Egyptians arriving in Jor­dan said their bus was the only vehicle on the road when it was repeatedly machine-gunned by warplanes. One of their group was killed, they said. 
Since early in the 18-day-old war, the rumble of distant B-52 
"But, effectively, if you're go­ing down in history as a martyr ... you are at the end of the day, in the eyes of history, a winner and not a loser," he said. 
Hassan also said the United States has miscalculated the in­tensity of Muslim anger over the war with Iraq. , 
"This is fratricide, and no Arab, effectively, is going to sit by and say he takes pleasure in seeing Saudis killing Iraqis or Iraqis killing Qataris," Hassan said. "I think that there is in­creasing unrest in the Arab and Muslim streets from Morocco to Indonesia." 
Hassan acknowledged that Jordan had broken a U.N. em­bargo against Iraq, as Wash­ington has charged, by buying Iraqi oil and sending food to Iraq. Hassan said his country was forced to turn to Iraq f"r oil after Saudi Arabia closed its border with Jordan. 
"This is not a violation of sanctions. We are not selling 
Rallies erupt around the world 
Some in favor of Iraq; others against the war 
In Spain, thousands of protesters demanded the shut­down of joint U.S.-Spanish mili­tary bases used as staging points for U.S. troops fighting in the gulf. 
In an annual protest against the U.S. military presence in Spain, at least 3,500 people marched nine miles from Madrid to the air base at Torre­jon de Ardoz, a stopover for 
U.S. troops and supplies headetl to the gulf. Some burned American flags and clashed with police guarding an access road to the base. 
Another group of marchers headed toward the U.S.-Span­ish naval base at Rota, on Spain's southern Atlantic coast. 
Both groups demanded the shutdown of all joint-use bases in Spain, an end to the Gulf War, and the return of three Spanish warships patrolling gulf waters to support the U.N.­ordered trade embargo against Iraq. 
In southern Japan, about 1,000 opponents of the war formed a human chain near a 
U.S. Navy base in Sasebo, po­lice said. 
strikes has been heard from across the Saudi-Kuwaiti bor­der. The huge bombers have zeroed in particularly on the dug-in positions of the Republican Guard, the core of Iraq's defense of occupied Kuwait. 
One of the eight-engine, $55­million "Stratofortresses," headed back from a bombing mission, crashed into the In­dian Ocean late Saturday on its way to its base at Diego Garcia, a tiny atoll 2,000 miles south­east of the gulf. 
The U.S. command did not say where the crash occurred or give details of the rescue of three crewmen. It said there was "no evidence that the air­craft went down as a result of hostile fire." Twenty-seven Americans are _now missing in action in the Gulf War. 
American military sources say the Air Force has begun mounting "counter-Scud pa­

., .
• 
~-. " . 
AP Photo

Welcome to the war 
trois," warplanes flying over areas where Iraq's ballistic missiles are believed based, ready to swoop down when a launch is detected on radar. One of the patrols apparently scored on Sunday. 
Just minutes after Scuds were launched toward Israel and Saudi Arabia, U.S. planes descended on two launch sites, the U.S. command said. It said the pilots reported secondary explosions at one target ­indicating a hit. 
One of the Iraqi missiles, fired at Riyadh, was intercepted by U.S. Patriot defense missiles, but debris fell into a residential area of the Saudi capital. The Saudi Press Agency said 29 people suffered minor injuries. 
Two other missiles struck central Israel or the occupied West Bank, but no injuries were reported. The U.S. command said one Scud may 
In Tokyo, about 1,500 people turned out to listen to music· and anti-war speeches at a rally that focused on environ­mental damage from the war, officials said. 
A number of smaller rallies were reported elsewhere around Japan, where demon­strators criticized the govern­ment's pledge of $9 billion in additional aid for the multina­tional force. 
Several hundred Poles gath­ered in Warsaw, meanwhile, to condemn Iraqi missile attacks on Israel. The rally was at­tended by members of the na­tion's small Jewish community and Israel's Ambassador to Poland Miron Gordon. 
"The Middle East tragedy has become an important test of the real attitude of Poles to Jews and their state: contrary to various slanders, the Polish society has been showing a great sympathy to the endan­gered Israeli nation," said Jacek Maziarski, a government representative. 
Some three million Polish Jews perished in the Holocaust. 
have landed in Jordan, but Jordanian officials disputed that report. 
American strategists have made the hunt for Iraq's elusive mobile Scud launchers a top priority. Although militarily in­significant, the missiles are keeping Saudis and Israelis on edge, and threaten to drag Is­rael into the Gulf War. 
Allied bombers have de­stroyed or significantly dam­aged about 25 of 35 major bridges leading to the Iraqi front lines in Kuwait and southern Iraq, the command said. 
The Iraqis are now resorting to secondary roads and new pontoon bridges to resupply their troops, "and clearly that creates for us some targets," said command spokesman Ma­rine Maj. Gen. Robert Johnston. He said convoys consequently have become backed up and vulnerable. 

are talking about martyrdom."  that oil on the high seas, and it  American Marines stand beside a road sign greeting visitors to Khafji Thursday following the first major 
Hassan said that view might  only covers barely two-thirds of  ground conflict with Iraqi forces. According to Saudi officials, allied troops and US Marines regained con­ 
be "irrational in the West."  our national requirements."  trol of Khafji on the Saudi-Kuwait border.  







Business 
Monday, February 4, 1991

e;ge 8 
German economy discussed 
By PATRICK NINNEMAN 
Business Writer 
Fantastic opportunities, along with great risks, exist for businesses investing in Germany now that the East and West portions are reunited, ac­cording to J. T. Ryan. 
Ryan, president of Mine Safety Appliances, discussed the economic and social prospects for Germany as the capitalist West combines with the formerly communist East at a speech to the Notre Dame Council for International Business Development. 
Ryan stated, "In 1961, sixteen years after the devastation of World War II, West Berlin had been completely rebuilt. East Berlin, in 1961 presented an in­teresting contrast, for gigantic piles of rubble still existed so long after the war." 
Many difficulties lie ahead as East meets West noted Ryan. The great differences between the two economies, as exempli­fied by Berlin, must now be forced into one cohesive sys­tem. Ryan argued that East Germany can, within approxi­mately a decade, join the pros­perity of the West. 
Another example Ryan gave of the vast differences between the two economies is the large amount of pollution created by state owned factories. He said that "polluting occurs under both capitalism and commu­nism. Without the conditions of democracy and the free press, the Eastern block was able to release appalling levels of con­taminants into the environ­ment." 
The change from communism to capitalism will not be easy said Ryan. He noted that East German communism was based on scarcity rather than quality. Factories could not afford to focus on quality, for the mate­rials that factories used in their products were scarce and man­agers used any component parts available, regardless of quality. 


Capitalism is based on com­petition, where consumers can choose from many different producers. Ryan said that East German factories must shift to quality in order to compete. 
Ryan cited many examples of why a unified Germany and Eastern Europe will succeed economically. He said that "the situation is similar to Western Europe directly after World War II. The East possesses a skilled and educated work force and social attitudes conducive. to economic growth." Barring any great catastrophe or the rise of evil leaders, Ryan pre­dicts Eastern Europe will suc­ceed in prospering. 
Peter Schulze, a German stu­dent from Berlin and presently in the Peace Studies program, pointed to some political prob­lems that Germany faces. He said that "Every politician with a bit of credibility turns out to be a former informer for the (now defunct) East German se­cret police." 

By L. PETER VOB 
Assistant News Editor 
If a student decides to open a bank account at ND, it may pay to investigate the two choices on campus. 
Both Notre Dame Credit Union and Society Bank offer banking services at ND. The Notre Dame Credit Union is lo­cated on Douglas road across from the Stepan Center and Society Bank has a branch in the basement of LaFortune. Consequently, many students said they tend to choose Society for their banking needs. 
Junior Kathy Mines explained her reasons for choosing Society for her checking and savings account. "I chose Society because it's closer to where I live on campus," she said. 
Mines had some criticisms of Society though. "It's too small," she said, "they should make it bigger." 
Junior Vanessa Hansen also had complaints. "The lines are always pretty long," she said, "and the interest isn't too good but I chose it (Society) because of the convenience." 
Sabrina Bateson, supervisor of the Lafortune branch of Society, estimates that 90 per­cent of that branch's business comes from students. "At Society, students get free checking, unless they have an interest bearing checking ac­count," Bateson said. An inter­est bearing account must have a minimum balance of $1,000 to avoid a service charge, she added. 
Students who have a checking account at Society receive 8 free checks per month and are assessed 25 cents per check after that. No service charge is assessed on withdrawls made from the 

Students have banking choice 
Nation's largest budget deficits proposed 
WASHINGTON (AP) President Bush will send a $1.4 trillion spending blueprint for 1992 to Congress today that will project the largest budget deficits in the nation's history while counting on America's al­lies to keep the Persian Gulf War from making that deficit even worse. 
The administration will also propose sharp cutbacks in Medicare, including restraints on benefits received by more well-to-do recipients, to keep the government's tide of red ink from rising even higher. 
White House Budget Director Richard Darman said Sunday the administration is forecast­ing that the Persian Gulf War will cost the United States $15 billion, with another $51 billion of the tab picked up by our al­lies. 
Darman didn't provide any details from where the foreign money would come. But Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, who has been heavily in­volved in the fund-raising ef­fort, said the administration expected to receive $41.5 billion from the allies to defray the costs of the fighting in the first three months of this year. 
Brady listed those contribu­tions as $13.5 billion from Saudi Arabia, $13.5 billion from the exiled government of Kuwait, $9 billion from Japan and $5.5 billion from Germany. 
Both Darman, who appeared on NBC's "Meet the Press," and Brady, interviewed on ABC's "Business World," insisted the administration had no plans for raising taxes to pay for the war. 
The $15 billion in extra costs projected for this year will be financed through additional borrowing, Darman said. That will increase the size of the budget deficit -the difference between what the government spends and what it receives in tax revenues. 
Bush's new budget, which in­cludes deficit predictions for both fiscal 1991 and '92, fore­casts the deficit for the current year will hit a record $318 bil­lion. That surpasses the old mark of $221.6 billion set in 1986 and is $98 billion higher than last year's $220.4 billion imbalance. 
Darman has said the 1992 deficit will also surpass the 1986 mark, reaching at least $281 billion. 
Darman said the deficit esti­mate included $15 billion as a "place holder for what might have to be the U.S. contribu­tion" in terms of the costs of the war. 
"If the war ends anywhere near the period where people are assuming, and foreign con­tributions hold up, I would hope we shouldn't have to go much above that," he said. 
He refused to say what esti­mate the administration was using for the length of the war. 
Non-administration estimates for the total cost of the Persian Gulf War vary from $28 billion to $86 billion, depending on the length of the conflict and the number of casualties. 
The administration has been under heavy pressure to boost the burden-sharing contribu­tions of such countries as Japan and Germany, which depend heavily on Persian Gulf oil but haven't committed ground forces to the conflict. 
One of the most controversial elements in Bush's budget will be a proposal to reduce spend­ing on Medicare, the giant health program for 33 million elderly and disabled Americans, by $23 billion over the next five years. 
The reductions, which come on top of $32 billion in cuts ap­proved last year over the same time period, would primarily reduce payments to hospitals and doctors. 
While Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, and others have warned that Congress will fight any further cuts in Medicare, Darman said the re­ductions were crucial in the ef­fort to regain control of the deficit. 
I : -• o ·I" 1 f 
to'"".".' •• ' .. 4 ' ... 

automatic teller machine in Lafortune, but a $1 fee is assessed when other Cirrus machines are used for transac­tions, according to Bateson. 
Bateson said that Society savings accounts are currently paying interest at 4.75 percent. These accounts have unlimited withdrawls-from automatic teller machines, but there must be a minimum service account of $200 at all times to avoid a $2 service charge. 
Barbara Nichols, an employee of Society Bank, said that there "is not a real difference" between a bank and a credit union. "A credit union is member supported, while a bank is supported by depositors," she explained. 
"Not everyone can belong to a credit union," she said, "but ev­eryone can belong to a bank." 
Dennis Emmons, director of credit services at Notre Dame Credit Union, said that any stu­dent or alumni of Notre Dame can become a member of the credit union. Denise Lynch, di­rector of member services and branch operations at the credit union, said that students can become members simply by opening a $5 savings account. 
Emmons said that the ND Credit Union is non-profit and pays lower taxes. Therefore the credit union can offer better in­terest rates, he said. 
Emmons said that the credit union is "more service ori­ented." There is not as much overhead at the credit union, he said. "We stay away from high risk loans," he said, "and we have the healthiest insurance fund, the National Credit Union Insurance Fund (NCUSIF)." .,. 
Nichols· said that Society is insured through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC). 
Emmons stressed the conve­nience of the ND Credit Union. He explained that all banking can be done through the credit union's automatic teller ma­chine in the bus shelter by the main circle and that account transfers can be made through any touch tone telephone. These services are free to members. 
Lynch pointed out that the credit union is accessible by car. "When the MW laundry is built behind us it will help peo­ple realize our accessibility," she said. 
Emmons said that the Notre Dame Credit Union is one of five preferred lenders nation­wide for ND student loans. "We've worked with many stu­dents who were in a bind and needed loans quickly," he said. "We will bend over backwards to make sure that students don't miss class for financial reasons," he added. 
Lynch added that "we're here to serve the Notre Dame com­munity. We're not here to profit from it, but to serve it." Examples of the credit unions community service include con­tributions to the homeless shel­ter, Christmas food drives, the Special Olympics and anti-drug campaigns. 
The credit union offers low interest Mastercards to stu­dents, Emmons said. They also offer computer loans, up to $2,000, free travelers checks, relocation loans for graduating seniors as well as many other services. 
"There is a difference," be­tween the credit union and Society, Emmons said. "We have been here for 50 years and our name hasn't changed," he said. 
Society Bank changed its name from Trustcorp last year. 

t 

'.Ill ••• • • o \ • • • • t , 'o \ • • It 1 t • p p f f o t P f f f I 
~---------­
r---------~-~---------------------·-------­
I 

Viewpoint
Monday, February 4, 1991 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1990-91 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Alison Cocks Managing Editor Business Manager John O'Brien Kathleen O'Connor 
News Edltor....................... Kelley Tuthill Advertising Manager ......... Beth Bqlger VIewpoint Editor ............... Michelle Dall Ad Design Manager ............ Amy Eckert Sports Editor ..................... Greg Guffey Production Manager ............. Lisa Eaton Accent Edltor ................. Colleen Cronin Systems Mgr .... Bernard Brenninkmeyer Photo Editor ......................... Eric Bailey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ........ Corinne Pavlis Controller....................... Chris Anderson Art Dlrector.................. Michael Muldoon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Protestors rationally question U.S. decisions 

Dear Editor: 
"I am tired of hearing about demonstrations against the war." 
"I am tirnd of dissent." 
"We must close ranks behind our president and support the war." 
Well, I am tired of being misunderstood and misinter­pmtnd by those who support the war in the Gulf and denounce all protnsts against it. I must respond speeifically to Caryn Kikta's lettnr to the editor (The Obsnrvnr, Jan. 28). 
Miss Kikta criticizHs Janet Meissner of the Gulf Crisis Action Group of being "so obvi­ously negative" in her com­ments in a demonstration at the outset of the war. Of course Miss Meissner's statements were nHgalive. She was speaking on behalf of a whole group that does not support the actions of the United States. Non-support, the last time I checked, was by nature negative in relation to support, if that is considered "positive" (a debatable point). 
Miss Meissner is next accused of showing "a radicalism un­called for and unappreciated." The carefully thought out, edu­cated and rational statements and the orderly and open pro­cedure of the demonstration that took place were far from "radical." If Miss Kikta consid­ers allegations that the President lied to us and did not exhaust pHaceful alternatives to conflict resolutions radical, then she is truly naive. 
Suspicion was, and still is, warranted when the govern­ment could not seem to give a constant reason for our in­volvement in the conflict. Is it protection of the American way of life? How about to protect the world oil market? (No, that didn't go over too well.) Is it to keep Iraq from acquiring nu­clear weapons? (Better, but what about every other country with emerging nuclear capabili­ties?) It is to stop "naked ag­gression" and to protect democracy (of an established monarchy)? Unfortunately, this same government that could not make up its mind what to tell us is the one that tells us it "has done extensive research and does not see this option (sanctions) having much suc­cess." 
It is funny that Miss Kikta considers The Observer's cov­erage of the Gulf War biased in favor of the dissenters. I had been thinking just the opposite. Sure, demonstrations get news coverage-they are news. But the letters to the editor and Viewpoint articles, forums for expression of opinions, have been overwhelmingly supportive of the U.S. position. This could be considered a biased ration, but it does accurately reflect the current sentiment of the population at large. 
As far as supporting the troops and having loved ones in the Gulf goes, more than a majority of the members of the Gulf Crisis Action Group have relatives and friends in the Gulf. In addition, the National Military Family Support Netwo'rk, while supporting their sons, daughters and siblings in the Gulf, does not support the policy. Like most protestors, they view calling for a cease­fire, replacement of troops with a U.N. or Arab peace-keeping force, renewed sanctions and a serious negotiation conference as the best way to support loved-ones and bring them horne alive. 
Yes, a democratic decision was made to intervene in the Gulf, but protestors contend that it was a wrong decision that can still be partially reme­died. Demonstrations continue not in an effort to divide the nation and weaken the morale of the troops. It is rather an ef­fort to recognize our mistakes and make some new decisions. 
Amy Jenista Breen-Phllllps Hall Jan.28,1991 

Four halls lack interest in Debates 
Indiscriminate attack on Israel
Dear Editor: culminating with repeated calls 
On bHhalf of the 1991 Iceberg to the rectors and hall D1!bates Standing Committee, presidents of these dorms we would like to express our proved futile. The Iceberg 
legitimizes U.S. involvement 
thanks to all of this year's Debates Standing Committee participants. The debates will finds it sad that there is Dear Editor: empirical assessment of politi­hatred for Israel and his begin on Tuesday, Feb. 5, with apparently no interest in these cal realities. Reasonable per­determination to engulf the 33 teams discussing the role of halls for an opportunity to The war in the Persian Gulf sons, such as statesmen and Jewish people in another athletics at American colleges further intellectual life via has been matched by the war of scholars, as well as theologians holocaust. and universities. debate. words in The Observer over the and bishops, have assessed Unfortunately, the entire stu­Secondly, all of the non-par­moral legitimacy of the military these realities differently. In the Israel's restraint up to now dnnt body will not be repre­ticipating dorms are women's conflict. I sense that, in final analysis, therefore, our has been remarkable. Were I a sented in the 1991 competition halls. It is especially disheart­Observer pages, the disagreement is less over Jew living in Tel Aviv, I'd accuse as it has been in the past. For ening to note that in this, the conscientious objectors have morals than facts unless, of my country of cowering like the the first timn in Iceberg Debate Year of Women, so many of Our outnumbered the conscientious course, the moral argument is lamb before the lion. Israel's history, four residence halls· Lady's women are content with warriors. The debate, however, rooted in pacifism, which is a goal-and ours-should now be (Farley, Howard, Pasquerilla reticence, rather than dis­has resulted in a draw. The different matter. clear: To destroy Hussein and West and Walsh) and off-cam­cussion. arguments of the objectors and hi:, var machine as the Allies pus will not take part. This is the we.rriors are equally What has finally convinced me were once forced to destroy upsntting for a number of rea­Suzanne FitzGerald plausible-and equally of the legitimacy of the military Hitler and the Third Reich. sons which extnnd beyond the Public Relations unresolvable. engagement-apart from any inconvenient disruption of the Kathryn C. Pirrotta skepticism I might have had in Donald P. Kommers scheduling process. Chairperson Bear in mind that the just war the beginning-is Hussein's Professor of Law and First, recruitment efforts 1991 Iceberg Debates principles of proportionality and indiscriminate attack on Israel, Government beginning in November and Jan.29, 1991 last resort depend on an an assault that grows out of his Jan.28,1991 
OOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YeAH. U55eN, 
I CAN7 TAJ)< 

'It a man has common sense, 
toNG... I 

he has all the sense there is.' 
Sam Rayburn 

Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, February 4, 1991 
Seniors should follow path of 'heart's desire' 
Second semester seniors could be in for some of the best or worst months of their lives. But despite the frenzy, the good will easily outweigh the bad. How do I know? My own second semester wasn't that long ago. I graduated in May, 1989. But if I could do it over again, hopefully my fears would seem less threatening and my joys more intense. 
During my last semester at Notre Dame, I was on a self-de­feating quest to find the crystal ball that would show me my fu­ture. Somehow I thought that while taking five classes, work­ing a job and doing my share at Senior Bar to make Notre Dame a social place, I should also discover the career path on which I would start and fin­ish my life. It was by virtue of my status as a Notre Dame se­nior that I thought I needed to figure all of this out. And others around me seemed to be on a similar quest. The life of a Notre Dame senior is sur­rounded by interviews, rejection and acceptance letters, LSAT scores and graduate school applications. 
Today, some 18 months after my graduation, I still know the problem of career indecision. But I think I've learned a lot in the interim. 
I am taking this academic year to explore the possibility of becoming a priest. After a year of volunteer work, I inves­tigated different religious communities and came back to Notre Dame-to the Holy Cross Congregation-as a candidate to the seminary. I live at Moreau Seminary-that build­ing across the lake with the big stainless steel cross in the backyard. 
Seniors' lives have one single path. You have spent your time getting an education: a job at which you've found a good deal of success, so it's natural to want to continue this success as a nonstudent. The "success factor" makes career-searching all the more difficult. Not only is it important to have a postgraduate path chosen, but you would also like that path to lead to a place where you'll be happy. 
Last night, a friend of mine from the Class of 1988 called. He was confused about-you guessed it-his future. After graduation, my friend opted for the volunteer path in a one year teaching program in the inner city. Only now, after working in another area for a year and a half, he feels no closer to that elusive crystal ball. So the bad news is that clarity about one's future path comes slowly. But the good news is that in light of the slowness of this process, your present quest shouldn't seem so urgent. 
For me, the progress this year hasn't come quickly, but is more valuable than I ever imagined. As a candidate in the seminary, I take four classes in theology, help in the planning and music for daily community prayer and mass, and work in a volunteer agency which helps rape victims. 
I also began, for the first time in my life, meeting regularly with a spiritual director. The program includes ample time for personal prayer and socializing with the 16 other candidates in my class. In addition, I come into contact with roughly 50 seminarians who live at Moreau and many priests and brothers who work in the Indiana Province as pas­tors, campus ministers and professors. 
I think it would be great if other professions could offer a similar opportunity. I am in a no-lose situation. If I stay with Holy Cross on the path to or­dained ministry, the year will have been a necessary step in the process. But if I leave, I can honestly admit that I gave 
Christopher Devron 
Guest Columnist 
the idea a chance. 
Overriding these factors, however, the most valuable aspect of this year and this program has been coming to a greater knowledge of myself. I've grown and my standards for judging the paths of my past, present and future have changed. Regardless of where I end up in life, this year will have been important in my formation as a person. · 
During my last semester as a senior, I took a course taught by John Dunne, C.S.C. At the time, it was my favorite class. But I was a little too busy trying to find my future to really understand what Father Dunne was saying. In recent months, I keep coming back to his idea of the "heart's desire." Father Dunne defines this term as the universal longing people have for that which will bring true joy into their lives. The path of our heart's desire does not, however, guarantee a life of endless days of happiness. Joy transcends relative happiness. I can be unhappy yet still know that my life's path is on target because joy reaches deeper than momentary unhappiness or mood swings. 
Anyway, it seems that the key questions amid all the panic and pressure of senior year are: "What type of career will allow me to become the person I hope to be?", "Where will I find my heart's desire?" and "What am I doing when I expe­rience real joy in my life?" Undoubtedly, answering these questions is difficult and possi­ble only through trial and error and deep self-knowledge. Sometimes, the answers-the path of our heart's desire or, as Joseph Campbell puts it, fol­lowing our bliss-will contra-diet the bottom line, the prag­matic and the popular reasons for choosing a career. 
My own answers to these questions led to a year of vol­unteer work and now to my candidate year at Moreau Semina<ry. I am not here be­cause I'm a paradigm of virtue or altruism. There are to many witnesses who would incrimi­nate me if I told you that I am in the seminary because I can think of nothing better to do than help people. To me, priesthood is attractive because I have seen the joy that the life has brought others. 
These days many people can­not imagine joy in a life of poverty, obedience and celibacy. In the context of our society, the vows of religious life seem daunting. There is no doubt that they require sacrifice. But every vow, every lifestyle, every commitment contains some denial, limitation and negativity. It seems to me 
"I can be unhappy yet still know that my life's path is on target because joy reaches deeper than momentary unhappiness or mood swings." 
that one can experience the positive aspects of vowed life while admitting the negatives-be they in marriage or priesthood. 
Despite all the news reports and articles which paint a gloomy picture, this year I've come to know men who experience real joy on the path or ordained ministry. I've been exposed to the positives as well as the negatives of vowed life as a religious priest. And despite my own realization of these negatives, I am becoming increasingly convinced that my heart's desire can be found on the path of ordained ministry. 
I have seen the joy that comes to priests who lead prayer, minister and counsel others at the most profound occasions of human life ... birth, marriage, personal crisis and even sickness and death. have seen the joy that priest­teachers experience when they discover that their students are learning, or when, as is often the case, their students teach them. And I have been a part of the love these men have for one another in community-real friendship with its sacrifices and support. The joy that comes with poverty, obedience and celibacy does not have a quantitative, tangible essence. It's the kind of joy which society has difficulty recognizing. 
Ordained ministry offers the possibility of becoming a per­son whose life is a way for God to bring love and grace into the world. Love, because the priest is an agent for change in an unjust world, and grace, be­cause of the role the priest plays in the sacramental life of the Church. 
In wishing you a joy-filled last semester at Notre Dame, I hope you discern a path that is fruitful. Remember that things are not as urgent as they now appear. By asking the right questions, you will slowly find that path. But don't be too surprised by the answers that come from your heart. And definitely don't dismiss them. Like mine, your answers might suggest that the joy of priest­hood is attractive. If this is the case for you, the candidate program at Moreau Seminary is a great place to continue searching. 
Chris Devron graduated from Notre Dame in 1989 and is cur­rently participating in the Holy Cross Candidate Program at Notre Dame. 

Dear Editor: 
The evening of the Super Bowl, I decided to take a study break and go to the Grotto to do some reflecting and thanking, as well as some asking. 
As I left the dorm and went into the frigid winter air, the coldness went to the bone. I knew that it I stayed at the Grotto and finished five decades of the rosary I would likely become a human icicle and possibly develop pneumonia. So, I went to Sacred Heart to admire the beauty of the renovation, say my prayers, and, most importantly, stay warm. 
When I entered Sacred Heart the aroma of incense filled the air. The church was empty ex­cept for one man sitting in a pew to the left of the altar. I took my place in a pew, knelt and began the rosary. 
About half way through the first Our Father, I heard a strange noise reverberating throughout the entire church. The noise seemed to be coming from the area of the sacristy. It took me a few minutes to figure out what the noise was. And then, fmally, it struck me. What I was hearing was a television tuned into the illustrious Super Bowl XXV. The commentators were inaudible, although I swear I could hear Keith Jackson. I heard the officials' whistles and the fluctuating roar of the crowd. 
Now, I'm positive that God, Jesus and the Blessed Mother have nothing against football considering our past few sea­sons of success, but I highly doubt that their enthusiasm would constitute replacing the altar with a big screen T.V. 
Needless to say, I arduously completed my prayers and headed for the Grotto. 
There is a time and place for everything. And a place of wor­ship is not the place to broad­cast sporting events. Not even ones as big as Bud Bowl III. 
Ryan J. Tryaskowski Stanford Hall 
Jan.27,1991 

Dear Editor: 
In times of crisis, many different opinions surface con­cerning the motivations behind our nation's actions. This is especially apparent with Operation Desert Storm. Although we do not agree with all of these opinions, they are reasonably interesting and somewhat substantiated-ex­cept for one. Christian Dupont's assertion (The Observer, Jan. 
23) that President Bush has used the Gulf War to initiate Armageddon and propagate religious imperialism is un­founded and borderline ludi­crous. 
The fact that President Bush consulted a right-wing funda­mentalist, or any religious leader, in a time of crisis is ir­relevant. Dr. Billy Graham is well-respected throughout the world, regardless of his reli­gious convictions. President Bush's decision to call his long­time friend for spiritual coun­seling during a world crisis is not atypical. Bush is showing his human side by turning to God for guidance, not an un­common practice for those who profess religious faith. It is re­assuring that Bush feels com­pelled to seek spiritual guid­ance at such a somber and crit­ical time in our history. 
Dupont's assertions that Bush was innocculating a guilty conscience or preparing for Armageddon are absurd. President Bush knows the limits of the relationship between church and state in this coun­try. There is absolutely no evi­dence that Bush is a right-wing religious crusader. 
Dupont's charges that the President has a secret religious agenda and is "cleverly disguis­ing it in sweet-tasting phrases" elicits memories of McCarthyism. Who else is a card carrying fundamentalist, Mr. Dupont? Does a list exist that would show that those who are associated with the crisis, including Colin Powell, Dick Cheney, Dan Quayle and even Janet Meissner, are members of a religious conspiracy? It is apparent that Mr. Dupont holds a vendetta against right-wing fundamentalism and, through his over active imagination, has concocted this elaborate, ill­conceived hypothesis to waste newspaper space. 
The true threat to this coun­try does not come from Billy Graham, Jan Quigley or the al­leged mob of "spiritually and morally deceived advisors" that have infiltrated the White House. The most dangerous threat comes from reactionaries such as Christian Dupont and his unfounded, misinformed and ludicrous assertions. 
Bill Hunnicutt Mike Rafford Flanner Hall 
Jan.26,1991 


._, 

Accent 
Monday, February 4, 1991 page 11 
Late Night Olympics 
Stanford and Lewis gain fifth consecutive victory 
.......... 
-·I • 
··~ 
.. 
./' 
By MATTHEW MOHS 
Accent Writer 
l·:vnry Friday I'm always facnd with thn same question: "What are you doing tonight'?" Tlw usual answer is "sonwthing will turn up. but who knows at this point." This past Friday, I was faced with tlw option of seeing Fast Times at Hidgnmont High with a bunch of frinnds for the 15th tirnn this ynar or going to the l.atn Night Olympks. I decided to lw original and went to my first Olympic games. 
Bdon~ I wnnt, I nneded to find out what I could about this nvnnt. According to Sally l>nmngoski, onn of thn organiz­Prs. l.atn Night Olympir.s, in its fifth yPar. is sponsored by the NV/\ oflke. 
Ms. l>nnmgoski said, "The spirit of thn evening is light­lwarl!!d. It's a lot of fun, but llwrn is a lot of competition." This fWmlt gives the students a chanee to takn advantage of all llw facilities of the JACC. It also raises about $2,000 for the St. Joseph's Special Olympics through entry fees and from donations at the doors. Now I was ready to go to the Olympics. 
As I soon learned. there was a lot at stake at these games. Stanford and Lewis, the grand champion for the past four ynars. wnrn trying to win "one for the thumb in '91." I was going to witness history. Were Stanford and Lnwis a dynasty on par with thn San Frandsen 4 1Jers and the New York Yankees of thn late '20's? Could thny possibly ""fivepeat?" 
I arrivnd at the ACC around 
10:30 p.m. I started my evening off by watching a little broom­ball. This event was played on ice, and the participants wore their sneakers. Each person wore a helmet and had a stick that resembled a broom. The object of the game was to score by hitting the ball into the other team's goal with the broom. 
The pace of this game· was moderately fast, but looked ex­tremely fun. Since the players were wearing shoes, there was a lack of control that was quite noticeable. However, that lack of control made for some inter­esting falls and checks. Jill Wirtjes of LeMans Hall said of the game, "It was awesome. You have no control. It was so funny." 
Next, I headed over to the othnr end of the Arena to watch volleyball. This tournament had 22 teams participating. The courts were nicely set up to give the players enough room evnn though there were three games going on side by side. The games were very intense. 
Also in the Arena were two ping pong tables set up for the Table Tennis Doubles Tournament. These games were 11xtremely fast paced, but the participants looked like they were enjoying themselves a lot. I was really surprised by the speed of some of the teams. 
The next event I saw was the best one there. It was wallyball, which is volleyball played on a racquetball court with a volley­ball-sized racquetball. The players could hit the ball against the walls and off the ceiling. It was entertaining to watch but looked like an awe­some time to play. 
As it turned out I was watch­ing Stanford play, so I asked Mike Flynn and Adrian Enzastiga about their chances to "livepeat." They said, "We're right on track, but we're taking it one game at a time." 
My last stop was the pool. In the shallow end was water lacrosse, and in the deep end was innertube water polo. wa­ter lacrosse was not very inter­esting to watch, but the players seemed to enjoy the games. 
My attention was diverted to the water polo. There was a crowd of supporters for the teams, probably extra team members, but they were still rowdy. The game moved fairly fast and looked really intense. Chris Liang from Stanford said that it was very tough and tir­ing. About the Olympic in gen­eral he said, "It's. pretty good, but not enough people come out." 
After the water polo I walked over to the dunk tank. I had 
..... 

--~~----­
The Observer Monday, February 4, 1991 
·.: page 12 
UNLV, OSU win again; DePaul schools Georgetown 
(AP) -Top-ranked UNLV warmed up for next week's showdown with second-ranked Arkansas by beating Rutgers 115-73 on Sunday as Stacy Augmon's triple-double led the defending national champions to their 29th straight win, 18th this season. 
Augmon scored 27 points and added 11 rebounds and 11 as­sists while Anderson Hunt scored 29. Both were pulled when coach Jerry Tarkanian removed his regulars with 11 minutes remaining and an 11­point lead. 
The Runnin' Rebels, who en­tered the game with an average victory margin of more than 31 points, play Fresno State on Thursday, then travel to Fayetteville, Ark. for a game next Sunday against Arkansas. The Razor backs beat Rice 100­87 on Saturday to run their record to 21-1. 
UNLV led 57-39 at halftime, then went on a 20-2 tear to start the second half and blow out Rutgers, which fell to 13-7 and had a six-game winning streak snapped. 
Arkansas 100, Rice 87 
Oliver Miller had 26 points and scored three baskets during an 18-0 run to help sew up the 16th straight win for Arkansas (21-1, 8-0 in the Southwest Conference. That overcame 35 points by Chase Maag of Rice (8-11, 3-6). 

Ohio St. 66, Purdue 59 

Jim Jackson scored 22 points, including eight in the final four minutes, and Ohio State outscored Purdue 15-6 in the final six minutes. 
Ohio State, which lost at Michigan State 75-61 Thursday night for its first defeat, moved to 18-1 overall and 8-1 in the Big Ten. Purdue fell to 11-8 and 3-6. Jimmy Oliver led the Boilermakers, who had won the last three meetings, with 22 points. The Buckeyes are 10-0 at home. 
Indiana 77, Minnesota 66 

Freshman Damon Bailey scored 6 of his 10 points during a 17-1 second-half run Sunday as Indiana survived 30 percent first-half shooting. The Hoosiers trailed 34-21 and by 9 in the second half when Bailey spakred the run. 
Eric Anderson and Calbert 

Cheaney scored 22 points each for Indiana (20-2, 8-1), which won its fourth straight game to remain tied with Ohio State for the conference lead. Kevin Lynch had 20 for Minnesota (10-9, 3-6). 
St. John's 81, Seton Hall 65 

Jason Buchanan scored 26 points as the Redmen (16-3 overall, 7-3 Big East) avenged an earlier loss to Seton Hall (13­6, 5-5). Carnesecca, 66, became the 30th coach with at least five years in Division I to reach the 500 mark, and was lOth fastest to reach it, needing 683 games. 
Arizona 85, Washington 56 

Khalid Reeves scored 15 points as Arizona extended the nation's longest home winning streak to 58 games.Arizona (18­
3) stayed on top of the Pacific­tO Conference at 7-2 and repaid the Huskies (12-7, 3-6) for an earlier 70-56 loss. 
Syracuse 99, Boston College 87 
Billy Owens matched his ca­reer high with 36 points as Syracuse returned home after three road games. By beating Boston College (10-10 and 1-7) for the 13th time in their last 14 meetings, Syracuse (19-3 and 7­
3) kept pace with St. John's at the top of the Big East standings. 
Kentucky 96, Georgia 84 

Jamal Mashburn scored 31 points, the most ever by a Kentucky freshman, to lead the Wildcats past Georgia. Mashburn, a 6-foot-8 forward from New York, scored 17 points in the first half as Kentucky (17-3 overall, 9-1 SEC) built a 50-38 lead and then hit a key basket in the sec­ond half to turn back a rally by Georgia (11-8, 4-6). 
UCLA 112, Pittsburgh 85 

Don McLean, coming of a season-low 11 in a loss to USC, had 39 points and Tracy Murray scored 29 for UCLA (16-5), which opened with a 20-2 run. The Bruins had lost four of their previous six. Pittsburgh (15-7) lost its third in a row and fourth in five games. 
E. Tennessee 94, Appalachian St. 78 
Keith "Mister" Jennings set a Southern Conference record with 19 assists for East Tennessee State (18-2, 7-1), which made 14 3-pointers. Steve Spurlock scored 16 points for Appalachian State (11-9, 4­4). 

DePaul 72, Georgetown 63 

David Booth scored 18 of his 22 points the second half as DePaul (12-7) snapped a six­year losing streak against the Hoyas and Joey Meyer's first coaching triumph in seven meetings against John Thompson. The Blue Demons (12-7) took control by outscor­ing Georgetown 24-7 over the first 10 minutes of the second half. 
N. Carolina St. 79, Georgia Tech 73 
Rodney Monroe scored 31 points, including eight in the fi­nal 3:03, to lead North Carolina State (11-6, 4-3). Monroe's late scoring came after the Wolfpack had blown all but three points of a 15-point lead they held with eight minutes remaining. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all 
Classifieds 
spaces. 

SUMMER JOBS  3 Bedroom Homes.  PREGNANT? Happily-married  ADOPTION: Christian couple  GOOD LUCK .. .  
NOTICES  COUNSELORS/SUMMER CHILDREN'S  Walk to campus. 232-3616  Catholic parents, full time stay-at­home mom and devoted dad, eager  seeks to adopt white infant. Financially secure home in  TEAM JESUS .. . I'm psyched to be a part of this fine  
CAMPS/NORTHEAST-TOP  to adopt. Will provide strong faith;  suburban area. Expenses paid.  organization!  
TYPING AVAILABLE  SALARY, RM/BD/LAUNDRY,  4-7 Bed. Houses Avail. For 91-92  lots of love; two excited brothers;  Legal/confidential. Answer our ad  
287-4082  TRAVEL ALLOWANCE, MUST  Yr. Reas. Rates. Phone #232-1776  large extended family; opportunities  and answer our prayers. Please  
HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE  include college and travel. We  call Harry and Melody collect at  
TYPING term  FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES:  Furnished Bedrooms and Shared  enjoy week-ends at our lake  (219) 259-0585 any time.  
papers/reports/letters/resumes.  ARCHERY, CRAFTS, BASEBALL,  Living Areas, Avail. for 91-92 Yr.  cottage and mini-vacations with  
Pick up & delivery available. 277­5134 Cathy  BASKETBALL, BICYCLING, DANCE, DRAMA, DRUMS.  Washer and Dryer. $200 per month includes utilities. Ph. 232-1776.  friends/children. Paid medical, legal, counseling, housing, and  LONDON SPRING '90!!!!  ST. EDWARD'S  
Want a great job?  FENCING, FOOTBALL, GOLF, GUITAR, GYMNASTICS, HOCKEY,  Ramada Inn of Elkhart,  living expenses. Call COLLECT: 0­317-253-8838, Extension 255 and  GRAB YOUR FLATMATES AND HAVE A PINT. MEET AT  HALL FORUM  
Then you need a great RESUME!  HORSEBACK-ENGLISH,  Award-Winning Hotel, has rooms  let us help you.  COACH'S MON. FEB. 4@ 9P.M.  Sl&alftcaal People Sl&alftcul houeo  
Only $20 including 25 copies & envelopes on quality paper.  JUGGLING, KARATE, LACROSSE, NATURE,  for Graduation weekend. Located at  ANY QUESTIONS CALL SUBA X 4034.  al Sl. Edward'• Hall  
MAIL BOXES ETC. 277-6245  PHOTOGRAPHY, PIANO,  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  
NEED A RIDE TO CHICAGO 2/8  ROCKETRY, ROLLERBLADING, ROPES, SAILBOARDING,  (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  SPRING BREAK '91  LONDON SPRING '9011!  Father Hesburgh  
OR 2/9. WILL HELP W/ GAS $1  SAILING, SCUBA, SOCCER,  deposit per room. Send letter with  GRAB YOUR FLATMATES AND  
CALL X4112.  TRACK, WATER SKI, WEIGHTS,  deposit to 3011  BAHAMAS/CANCUN  HAVE A PINT! MEET AT  SPEAKS ON  
WOOD. MEN CALL OR WRITE:  Belvedere Rd. Elkhart,  from $375  COACH'S MON. FEB. 4 @ 9P.M.  
LOST/FOUND LOST: Nikon Camera & Case  CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914) 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA. P.O. BOX  IN 46514. MARION ST. FRAT HOUSE Rent for '91-'92 year  CALL NOW!!! 277-0253: MIKE  ANY QUESTIONS CALL SUBA X4034!  ''WHAT I THINK ABOUT THE WAR  
Last Seen Saturday Jan. 26 at Law School Party in the  1771, DUXBURY. MA 02332 (617) 934-6536.  For 8 people@ $160/mnth. Utilities & Furniture extra  SPRING BREAK in Cancun or Bahamas from $299.00! Includes  IN THE GULF'  
JACC Monogram Room. If  Call Jon @ 289·1015  roundtrip air, 7 nights hotel, cruise,  
picked up or found, please contact 273-9236. You  TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER CHILDREN'S CAMPS­ between 5 and 6 pm.  LAUGH AT YOU!!!!!!  beach parties, free lunch and much morel Organize a small group­ Wednesday, February 6  
will be rewarded for your  NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN  NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  earn free trip plus cash. Call  
honesty. $$$$$$$  WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN IN  NEIGHBORHOOD NORTH OF NO  1-800-BEACH IT.  7:00P.M.  
THE NORTHEAST. GOOD  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  IT WILL BE  
LOST: Gold Gaurdian Angel Pin  SALARY, ROOM & BOARD,  2773097  
Great sentimental value  TRAVEL EXPENSE. WOMEN  KRIST! FRATES'  FORMAL WEAR FOR YOU BY  
Call Adrienne 284-5223  CALL OR WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX 1771, DUXBURY, MA  FOR SALE  22nd BIRTHDAY  CALLING VANESSA 2729305  
Lost -Silver necklace in CSC on  02332 (617) 934-6536. MEN CALL  
1/30. Reward. Prof. O'Brien 239­ OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, 5  ROLEX WATCH, lady's, new, orig.  THIS TUESDAY  Attn all Crew Team members  
7312.  GLEN LANE, MAMARONECK, NY  cost $3,000. Sacrifice. Dan 289­ HAVE A HEART AND WISH HER  (Present and Former): Only 29  
10543 (914) 381-5983.  2797.  A  days until John O'Brien's birthday.  
LOST-Gold bracelet with a sort of  
a link design. Great sentimental  SWIMMING JOBS (WSI)-SUMMER  IS IT TRUE ..... JEEPS FOR $44  HAPPY BIRTHDAY.  
value. Reward. Phone 2156  CHILDREN'S CAMPS­ THROUGH THE U.S. GOV'T??  NEED MONEY? GET YOUR TAX  
(Maria).  NORTHEAST-MEN AND WOMEN  CALL FOR FACTS!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY KRIS!  REFUND IN AS FAST AS 3-5  
WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO  504-649-5745 EXT. S-6840  (Bahama Boy)  DAYS WITH MAIL BOXES ETC.  
LOST ON MONDAY AT ACC:  SWIM, SWIM TEAM, BEAUTIFUL  $5 OFF WITH ND/SMC I D.  
GOLD-AND-SILVER-COLORED WATCH. ACOMMEMORATIVE  POOL AND LAKES IN THE NORTHEAST. GOOD SALARY,  TICKETS  ON SR 23, PAST IRONWOOD. CALL 277-6245.  
GIFT OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE.  ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL  
REWARD! PLEASE CALL  EXPENSE. MEN CALL OR WRITE:  2 PENN & TELLER TIX  Student Art Forum Meeting  
2710621.  CAMP WINADU, 5 GLEN LANE,  I need a ride to I.U. Feb.8 Call  
MAMARONECK, NY 10543 (914)  15TH ROW FRI. FEB 8  Tues: February 5th  Missy at 2577 $$  
LOST · DETEX. REWARD. 283­ 381-5983. WOMEN CALL OR  STAR PLAZA CALL 234-2527  Time: 6:30pm  
4909.  WRITE: CAMP VEGA, P.O. BOX  LEAVE MESSAGE  Place: Conference Room of Snite  HAPPY 22ND B-DAY  
LOST: PR. OF POLO WIRE RIM GLASSES IN BR. CASE.  1771, DUXBURY. MA 02332 (617) 934-6536.  Movie: "The Cubist Epoch" ·····························  DANNY O'GRADY II LOVE, 1-2  DAYTONA BEACH •rom$ff9* SOUTH PADRE ISLAND """'$f29*  
TODD X1724 WANTED SUMMER JOBS  EARN $300 TO $500 PER WEEK READING BOOKS AT HOME. CALL 1-615-473-7440 EXT. B 340. WANTED-Female Housemate to share house in nice  I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR INDIGO GIRLS. CALL EVES 272 9602 PERSONALS  Happy 21st Birthday, Sully-Becky From your loving fraternal brothers of9A  By Bernard, I Think We've Got ill II The Current Ads 3 must have gotten rid of its virus! The Computer Wizard TO THE FRESHMEN WHO  STEAMBOAT ,o,.$96* FORT LAUDERDALE ,o..,$f37* PANAMA CITY BEACH """'$f24 * CORPUS CHRIST/ I  
.-­ ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800-343-8373.  neighborhood 5 min. from campus. $240w/ util. call Angie 234-5316 EXPERIENCED TAEKWONDO INSTRUCTION FOR 16 YEAR OLD MALE ATHLETE. CALL 277  A BAHAMAS PARTY CRUISE, 6 DAYS ONLY $279! JAMAICA & FLORIDA 6 DAYS $2991 DAYTONA $159! PANAMA CITY $991 SPRING BREAK TRAVEL 1­800-638-6786.  To my little sea nymph, Thanks for a nice weekend. Despite the problems. we survived. I like you a little. Love, the Boy from M-Land P.S. Meet me behind the sheet!  STOLE BEER AT THE NIGHT OF 1000 BEERS IN MORRISSEY: Get a clue-you're not in high school anymore. Hey-anyone who picked up the  MUSTANG ISLAND rmm$fQB* HILTON HEAD ISLAND "om$ff2* DON'T WAIT 'TIL IT'S TOO LATE CALL TOLL FREE TODAY 1·800·321·5911  
GRAPHICS ARTS STUDENT NEEDED FOR CATALOG LAYOUT. PROJECT IS ON PC-BASED DESKTOP PUBLISHING SYSTEM. WILL TRAIN. CALL DENNIS 293­3568 (DAYS) 272-5031 (EVES)  4316 EVENINGS. I FORRENT BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  Adoption: Loving couple, doctor and teacher. longing to share our love with newborn. We'll give your baby a caring. warm, and happy home. Expenses paid. Call Carol and Frank collect 212-874-3537.  WAKE-N-BAKE SPRING BREAK '911 CANCUN FROM $459. JAMAICA FROM $539.00! DON'T MISS THE FUN AND SUN I CALL 1-800-427-7710.  free ski lift tickets to Swiss Valley that they gave out at the dining halls, if you're not going to use them and want to make some money... l'll take them off your hands. Call Kirby at x1023 ...  
 


.#. 
-

SCOREBOARD 
AP MEN'S TOP 25 TRANSACTIONS NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 
How tne Associated Press' Top 25 teams tared this week: BASEBALL EASTERN CONFERENCE 1 UNLV (18-0) beat Utah St. 126-83; beat San Jose St. 88-64; beat Rutgers 115-73. American League WALES CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
2. 
Arkansas (22-1) beat Alabama-Birmingham 104-72; beat Rice. 100-87. TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms with Gary Patrick Division w L Pet. GB 

3. 
Ohio State (18-1) lost to Michigan St. 75-61 . beat Purdue 66-59. Mielke. pitcher, on a one-year contract with w L T Pis GF GA Boston 33 12 .733 

4. 
lndtana (20-2) beat Wisconsin 73-57; beat Mtnnesota 77-66. Oklahoma City of the American Association. NY Rangers 27 19 9 63 197 Philadelphia 24 20 .545 8 112

5. 
St. John's (16-3) lost to No. 18 Georgetown 59-53; beat No. 25 Seton Hall81-65. National League Pittsburgh 29 23 3 61 235 203 New York 20 25 .444 13 

6. 
Arizona (18-3) beat Washtngton St. 84-?t; beat Washington, 85-56. PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES-Signed Randy Philadelphia 27 23 6 60 186 174 Washington 20 26 .435 13 tl2 

7. 
Duke (18-4) beat No. 23 Georgta Tech 77-75; beat Notre Dame 90-77. Ready, infielder-outfielder, to a one-year contract. New Jersey 22 22 10 54 198 New Jersey 14 31 .311 19


171 
183 

8 Syracuse (19-3) beat Connecttcut 68-66; beat Boston College 99-87. Washington 24 28 3 51 173 185 Miami 12 34 .261 21 112 
9. 
North Carolina (15-3). beat Clemson 90·77. BASKETBALL NY Islanders 18 28 8 44 155 190 Central Division 

10. 
Kentucky (17-3) beat Auburn 89·81. beat Georgia 96-84. National Basketball Association Adams Division Detroit 33 14 .702 t1 Nebraska (18-3) beat Mtssouri 89-75; lost to Oklahoma St. 81-68. CHARLOTTE HORNETS-Activated Kenny Boston 31 17 8 70 204 178 Chicago 30 14 .682 1 112 


12. UCLA (16-5) lost to Southern Californta 76-74; beat No. t9 Pittsburgh t12-85. Gattison. forward. from the injured list. Montreal 29 2-0 6 64 186 165 Milwaukee 29 18 .617 4 t3. Utah (20-2) beat Texas-EI Paso 78-68; lost to New Mexico 68-62. SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Placed Rod Strickland, Hartlord 23 25 6 52 154 180 Atlanta 24 21 .533 8 
14. LSU (13-6) lost to MISSISSippi St. 82-79; lost to Vanderbilt 63-59. guard, on the injured list. Buffalo 21 Indiana 19 25 .432 12 112
22 10 52 185 181 t5 V1rg1nta (16-4) beat N.C. St. 104-72; beat Wake Forest 83-80. Continental Basketball Association Quebec 11 34 9 31 155 240 Cleveland 15 29 .341 t6 112 
16. 
E. Tenn. St. (t8-2) beat Marshall99-88; beat Memphis St. 105-t02; beat Appalachian St. 94-78. CEDAR RAPIDS SILVER BULLETS-Signed Charlotte 14 30 .318 17 1/2 

17. 
Southern Mtssisstppl (14·2) beat SW Louisiana 97-91; beat Louisville 77-66. Anthony Blakley, forward. CAMPBELL CONFERENCE t8 Georgetown (13-6) beat No.5 St. John's 59-53; lost to DePaul 72·63. Norris Division WESTERN CONFERENCE 19 Pittsburgh (15-7) lost to Villanova 75-72; lost to No. 12 UCLA 112·85. w L T Pis GF GA Midwest Division 


20. 
New Mextco Stale (16·2) beat Long Beach St. 66-64. PRO BOWL BOX Chicago 34 17 4 72 181 w L Pet. GB

21. 
Oklahoma (15-6) lost to Iowa St. 82-79; beat Missouri 95-87. St. Louis 31 15 7 69 206 164 San Antonio 31 12 .721 

22. 
New Orleans (t9-3) lost to Tulane 84-83, 20T; beat NE Illinois 83-51; beat SW Louisiana 69-60. AFC 3 0 3 17 23 Detroit 24 26 5 53 185 200 Utah 30 15 .667 2 

23. 
Georgta Tech (13-7) lost to No.7 Duke 77-75; beat Maryland, 80-65; Iosito N.C. St. 79·73. NFC 0 7 7 7 21 Minnesota 17 30 9 43 169 192 Houston 25 21 .543 7112 24 Kansas (15·4) beat Kansas St. 78-69; beat iowa St. 85-78. Toronto 13 35 5 31 150 Dallas 15 27 .357 15 112


141 

221 25 Seton Hall (13-6) lost to Provtdence 65-62; Iosito No.5 St. John's 81-65. First Quarter Smythe Division Minnesota 15 28 .349 16 
AFC-FG Lowery 26, 4:08. Los Angeles 29 18 5 63 215 166 Denver 14 30 .318 17 1/2 
Orlando 12 33 .267 20 NFC-J.Johnson 1 run (Andersen kick), 14:13. Edmonton 27 22 3 57 181 166 Second Quarter Calgary 28 20 5 61 216 171 
Pacific DivisionAP WOMEN'S TOP 25 Third Quarter 29 48 200 
Portland 38 8 .826
Winnipeg 20 8 187 LA Lakers 34 11 .756 3 112AFC-FG Lowery 43, 8:34. Vancouver 19 31 5 43 169 216 
Phoenix 29 15 .659 8 Golden State 25 19 .568 12 
NFC-J.Johnson 9 run (Andersen kick), 13:56. 
How the Associated Preas' Top 25 women's teams fared lhts week: Fourth Quarter Saturday's Games Seattle 20 23 .465 161/2
AFC-Reed 20 pass 1rom Kelly (lowery kick), Hartlord 2, Philadelphia 0 LA Clippers 15 30 .333 221/2t Vtrgtnta (20-1) beat North Carolina 92-67; beat Georgia Tech 98-94. 
2. Penn State (17-1) beat #24 Maryland 75-70; beat St. Bonaventure 102-73. 3:07. Pittsburgh 6, Boston 2 
Sacramento 12 31 .279 24 1/2
NFC-Sanders 22 run (Andersen kick), 9:49. Montreal3, N.Y. Islanders 3, tie 4 Georgta (19-2) beat #3 Tennessee 81-74. beat #22 Florida St. 91-71; beat Kentucky 87-71. 
3 Tennessee (18-4) lost to #4 Georgia 81-,4; beat Tennessee Tech 94-67. 
AFC-FG Lowery 34, 12:02. Minnesota 6, Quebec 4 
Saturday's Games Cleveland 113, Minnesota 110, OT5. Purdue ( 18·1) beat Illinois 89-64 AFC----Givins 13 pass from Kelly (Lowery kick). Winnipeg 4, Washington 2 
13:11. Calgary 3, Chicago 1
6 North Carolina St. (17-3) beat South Carolina 72-59; beat Old Dominion 66·52. 
Indiana 106, Seattle 100Detroit 5, Toronto 2 7. Auburn (18-3) beat Kentucky 72-69; beat Alabama 77-48. 
New York 92, Sacramento 788. Stanford (16-3) beat California 113-79; beat #16 UNLV 81-67. A-50,345. St. Louis 5, New Jersey 4 Orlando 108. Miami 98 
Los Angeles 9, Vancouver 1 Houston 100, San Antonio 94, OT9 Rutgers (18-1) beat St. Bonaventure 66-55; beat Rhode Island 77-48; beat Massachusetts 62·26. 
AFC NFC Sunday's Games
10. LSU (16·4) beat Southern U. 82-45; Iosito Vanderbilt 73·72. 
Denver 126, Atlanta 125
First downs 17 22 Hartlord 1, N.Y. Islanders 1, tie
11 W.ern Kentucky (18-1) beat E. Illinois 82-58; beatS. Illinois 66-58. 
Utah 111 , New Jersey 1 03 12. Arkansas (17-3) beat Rice 96-74 Rushes-yards 20-90 28-90 Boston 6, Pittsburgh 3 Sunday's Games13. Washtngton (15-3) beat UCLA 75-71; beat Southern Cal77-63. Passing 268 278 Edmonton 3, Buffalo 2 Boston 119, Washington 10114 Mtsstssippt (16-4) beat New O~eans 59-49; beat Memphis St. 93-77; beat Florida 65-58. Return Yards 28 -1 Winnipeg 4, N.Y. Rangers 3 Phoenix 112, Detroit 97
Comp-Att-lnt 19-30·0 19-29-0 Monday's Games
15. Northwestern (12·5) beat Ohto St. 85-65; lost to Indiana 74-61. 
Milwaukee 120, Charlotte 11116 UNLV (16-4) beat San Jose St. 79-46; lost to #8 Stanford 81-67. Sacked-Yards Lost 2-14 4-28 Los Angeles at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. 
LA Lakers 99. Chicago 86 17. Texas (f4-5) beat SMU 93-65; beat Texas A&M 74-65. Punts 2·51 3-43 Minnesota at Montreal, 7:35p.m. 
Minnesota 11 0, Philadelphia 102, 20T
Fumbles-Lost 2·0 0·0 St. Louis at Toronto, 7:35p.m. 
18. Connecticut (17-3) beat Boston College 68-65; beat Georgetown 81·51. 
Houston 143. Golden State 135, 20T
Penalties-Yards 6-30 4-20 Tuesday's Games
19. Notre Dame (15·3) beat Xavier, Ohio 74-50; beat St. Louis 97-48; beat' Evansville 73-56. 
Monday's Games20. Clemson (14-5) beat Duke 63-49; beat South Carolina St. 81-45. Time of Possession 26:32 33:28 Edmonton at Boston, 7:35p.m. 
Seattle at Charlotte. 7:30p.m.
Los Angeles at Philadelphia. 7:35p.m.
21 Provtdence (18-3) beatlona 91-46; beat Seton Hall 103·79; beat Pittsburgh 108-97. 
Milwaukee at Cleveland. 7:30p.m.
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS Vancouver at Washington. 7:35p.m. 
22. Florida Stale (14-3) beat Tulane 87-60; Iosito #4 Georgia 91-71. 
New Jersey at Portland. 10:30 p.m. 
RUSHING-AFC: T.Thomas 7-38, Brooks 5-36, Chicago at Sacramento, 10:30 p.m. 
23. Lamar (19-2) lost to Alcorn St. 92-83; beat Texas-Pan American 93-46. Calgary at New Jersey. 7:45p.m. 
Williams 3·8, Humphrey 2·7, Kelly 3-1. NFC:24 Maryland (13-8) Iosito #2 Penn St. 75-70; lost to Duke 45-44. 
Tuesday's GamesSanders 7-35, J.Johnson 10-32, Cunningham 3­11, E.Smith 5-7, Byner 2-6, Everett 1 ·(minus 1 ). 
25 Iowa ( 1 0· 7) Iosito Mtchigan St. 64-54; beat Michigan 79-60. 
Cleveland at Atlanta. 7:30p.m. 
Philadelphia at Detroit, 7:30p.m. 
PASSING-AFC: Moon 6-11-0·72, Kelly 13· 
New York at Orlando, 7:30p.m. 
19-0-210. NFC: Cunningham 6-11-0-168, Everett 
___..

Utah at Minnesota, 8 p.m. 
13·18-0-138. RECEIVING-AFC: Reed 4-80, T.Thomas 4­Indiana at Dallas, 8:30p.m. 
Golden State at San Antonio, 8:30p.m.
36, Miller 3-49, Brooks 3-47, Edmunds 1-27, Givins 
Denver at Phoenix. 9;30 p.m. 
1-13, Hill1-12, Holman 1-12, Humphrey 1-6. NFC: 
LA Clippers at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m. 
Clark 6·65. Rice 3-62, Jordan 3-45, Jackson 2-47, 
Sanders 2-24, Byner 1·43, Sharpe H 0, J.Johnson H 0. MISSED FIELD GOALS--NFC: Andersen 40, 48, 46. AFC: Lowery 28. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office ?f University Computing Computmg Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 

Hours: Mon. -Fri., 9:00 -5:00 
-

'IOuchdown. NeXr's newest and most affordable machine is here. Stop in for a hands-on demon-a stration of the revolutionary NcXlstation'"computer. And go where no computer has gone before. ,.., 
.. 

RESELLER IT\:! PRINT 
·I<J,·"~··'(t r ,,, 1. 
,'­


.. I 

-
page 14 The Observer Monday, February 4, 1991 
Irish swim teams split meets vs Northwestern 
RIGHT NOW,YOU CAN GET TWO 
BRUKTHROUGHS FORTHE PRICE OF ONE. 
Men's team blasts Wildcats 
By BECKY WOOD Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team shut-down Northwestern on Saturday afternoon at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish won nine of sixteen meet events, but it wasn't that easy. 
The Wildcats jumped to an early lead by as many as seven­teen points after the fifth event, the 100 yard breaststroke. 
But the Irish kept their com­petitive edge. First and second places in the 1-meter diving and the 100 freestyle gave Notre Dame the lead after the ninth event, 85-81. 
Divers Sean Hyer and Pat Dugan finished first and second in 1-meter diving, while David Nathe and Jim Birmingham also placed first and second, respectively, in the 100 freestyle. 
Hyer and Dugan also scored first and second, respectively, in 3-meter diving to increase the gap, 140-118. Notre Dame then cruised to first place fin­ishes in the last two events and sealed the meet, 166-128. Ed Broderick won the 200 individ­ual medley, and Birmingham, Chuck Smith, Greg Cornick and Nathe claimed the 200 free re­lay. 
Nathe and Cornick placed first and second in the 200 freestyle, co-captain Brian Rini captured the 200 butterfly, 1:53.41, Broderick won the 100 butterfly, :52.25 and Cornick swam an impressive 200 
In the NeXTstation'" computer, we've man­have taken the liberty of installing a rather for­aged to squeeze the most possible computer midable package of software, including Digital into the least possible space. To say nothing of Webster,'"WriteNow,®Jt!athnnatica,® NeXTmaiI'" the least possible price. and all system software. So all you have to do 
One low price includes not only a keyboard is plug it in and you're ready to work. You even 
and monitor, but eight megabytes of memory, get a free trial subscription to NeXTWORLD'" a built-in 2.88-megabyte floppy disk drive and magazine, to keep you up to date. Ethernet.The NeXTstation is also equipped And to make our case even more compel­
with a lOS-megabyte hard disk, onto which we ling, we'll send a free copy of the extraordinary 
Williams leads NO women in loss 
By Becky Wood Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team fell to tenth place, NCAA championship team Northwestern. With only four first place finishes, the Irish lost to the fastest team on their schedule (other than Stanford) on Saturday, 119-176. 
NCAA qualifier Tanya Williams recorded three Irish wins and in the process set a new University record. Her 100 yard butterfly time of :57.31 broke the previous record (:57.70) set by Suzanne Devine in 1984. Williams also finished first in the 200 butterfly 
(2:03.93) and the 400 individual medley. 
,.,.,/~~; 

"Tanya swam extremely well, Notre D~me's Jim Birmingham, shown stretching[~be-fo..,re,....a..ra-c;.,.e~ both her butterfly swims were 
her best mid-season swims
second 1n the 1 00 freestyle and teamed up to win the 200 free relay. 
was a
breaststroke in a winning time pivotal event," Irish of 2:10.27, rounding out the coach Tim Welsh said. other top races for the Irish. 
Cornick's entry in the 200 The Notre Dame men now breaststroke was late, as he stand 1-1 against the Big Ten. moved from the 100 butterfly to On Saturday they face Illinois, the breaststroke. the third Big Ten team on the 
"His winning the breaststroke Irish schedule. 
JUNIORS 
· Anyone interested in being the Chairperson of the Class of 1992's Senior Fonnal please pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, 
rd floor LaFortune. Deadline: Feb. 6 
app!J !Bi'l-thda}j dll(iclh£tt£ Sib-i£1-k!J 
program. ,otus value), to everyone who purchases and regis­ters a NeXHtation computer, NeXTcube or 040 upgrade board by March 31, 1991 * 
We couldn't even guess where you could 
make a comparable purchase. But we" can tell you exactlv where to make ~ this one. Simply look below to find r&1fl 
the location of your campus reseller. ~ 
since she's been at Notre Dame," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. 
Junior diver Jenny Kipp scored the other Irish first in the 1-meter diving with a score of 245.475. Susan Bohdan, Alicia Feehery, Christy Moston, Kristin Heath, Jenny Stumm and Karen Keeley scored top three finishes for Notre Dame. 
"It's good for us to keep looking at teams like theirs because that's where we want to be but we do come away with a little bit of humility," said Welsh. 
"We raced a lot lately and I think that was evident in the meet Saturday," Welsh said. 
The Irish have one more dual meet on Saturday against Eastern Michigan. The MCC, Eastern and NCAA champi­onships follow. 
-.. 
-~ \ 
"l...otm. I~ will be delivered '<~hell av1ulahlc:: Cll~ NcX'I'Compucc:r,lnc. All nKflts rc<Kr~'CJ "l'hc Ne)C"I'Io~ rs a re~l\lcrcd trademark, Rc,card\,lnc Ml 01hcr uldc:mark' menuoned be !on.: 10 rhen rcspee1ivc owners 

Monday, February 4, 1991 The Observer page 15 
Perles may stop
Irish men's tennis team enjoys weekend ­
dual job with 
By DAVE MCMAHON Herdozia allowed DiLucia to taking four out of five singles Bayliss. 
Sports Writer escape the match with an easy matches, but lost at doubles Coleman got back on the Michigan Statewin. when Tad Eckert and Chris winning track against the 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team, faeing its first endurance test of the young season, upped its record to 3-2 with a sweep of weekend opponents Northwestern, Purdue, and Colorado. 
.Junior Dave DiLucia, ranked sixth in collegiate tennis going into the three matches, began his dominance Saturday morn­ing, taking Northwestern's Steve Herdozia in straight sets, 6-2, 6-1. After losing in his first four attempts, DiLucia has won his last two matches against llerdozia, the 25th-ranked player in the nation. A review of past matches against 
r goal is 
to help you 
reach yours. 
Cleveland-Marshall College ofLaw 


"Cleveland-Marshall's environment challenges me and is very supportive­especially the studentS and faculty. This support and the flexible schedule have been important in my decision to study law and raise afamily." 
Kay Furio 

Cleveland-Marshall College of Law invites you to an 
Open House. You'll meet our faculty, staff, and 
students and learn about our program, admission 
requirements, and career opportunities. 
Select a date that's convenient for you and return the form below. We'll send you further information. 
Name ___ Phone _____
Address----~--____ 
City, State. Zip ____:______________ 
Undergrad.
Schooi _______Major ____Graduation Date __ 
Yes, Iplan to attend one: 
'...1 Minority Open !louse Thursday, February 14, 1991 6-Bp.m. 
1...1 General Open !louse Thursday, February 28, 1991 6-8p.m. 
1...1 No, I'm unable to attend an Open Ilouse but please send me an application and catalog. 
csu 

"I did what coach Bayliss and I had talked about," said DiLucia. "I had to be patient and select when I should come in and when I should stay back. Herdozia's got great passing shots and he's tough to stop when he's in a groove, but I think I frustrated him by vary­ing when I came up to the net and when I stayed back." 
Northwestern, one of Notre Dame's most difficult regional opponents, could only muster up two wins, as Chuck Coleman lost in a third set tiebreaker, 3­6, 6-3, 6-7, in a match high­lighted by baseline rallies. The Irish (3-2) locked up the win by 
:If:YO.ii see: 
: : : :K~ith: : : : 
:cavanaii ·h:
............ g .. 
blou.iin · : chow : 
·········g········ 
on cam ·us; :
......... :P..... 
:wish:him a: 
:iia/J:py:2isr: ::Birthday!: : 
: (liQw'~ ~b~t~ ~om?): 
The Office of Admissions Cleveland-Marshall College of Law 1801 Euclid Avenue 
LB lll 
Cleveland State University Cleveland. Ohio 44115 
Wojtalik fell 3-6, 4-6. 
The play at doubles had been a concern to Bayliss, but he was satisfied with the weekend effort. Will Forsyth and Andy Zurcher stepped up to the number one doubles spot and remained undefeated on the season, winning 7-6, 6-0. 
"Zurch and I have been play­ing pretty well," said Forsyth. "But all the doubles teams are pretty equally matched, so there wasn't much pressure playing at number one." 
After two setbacks to two of the top four teams in the nation to start the season, the Irish as as team appeared to play their home opener with a air of con­fidence, winning 16 out of 18 in singles play. 
"We knew it would be a tough weekend, but instead of looking at it as three matches in two days, we just took each one by itself, and everyone rose to the occasion," said DiLucia, who will play next in the Rolex Nationals, which features the top 32 players in the nation. 
Notre Dame faced a young Purdue team Saturday night, and used their depth to their advantage, as Coleman re­placed DiLucia at number one doubles. 
"DiLucia's had an injury in his left foot that is similar to turf toe, so I rested him," said Bayliss. "I felt we were in good enough condition to win with­out him against Purdue," said 
Y--2. 
li~" 
You alwayS-ffiake the right choice at Irish Gardens. 
Now that Irish Gardens is re-open for the semester, be sure to ta_ke advantage of their great selectiOn of flowers, balloons and greetmg cards. 
And now that St. Valentine's Day is just around the corner, don't delay! 
Hurry on down! 

Boilers, beating Scott Micus 6­3, 6-0. After an opening set loss, Forsyth came back to win 5-7,6-2, 6-3. 
After playing in two matches Saturday, the Irish went at it again Sunday morning, facing Colorado in their third dual match of the weekend. 
DiLucia returned to action against the Buffaloes, who suf­fered their first setback of the season. Although Notre Dame won 5-1, Bayliss was unsatis­fied with the endurance, or lack thereof, that the Irish showed in its final performance. 
"We were tired Sunday," said Bayliss. "We're not where we need to be. I'm happy with the results because Colorado is a tough team to play with no rest, but we've got along ways to go." 
In the only singles match that went three sets, Forsyth lost the opener but rallied back to a 5-7, 6-2, 6-3 win. 
"I was pretty fatigued," said Forsyth, who played in first three home matches as a mem­ber of the Irish squad. "The conditioning that we've been working on paid off, but we showed that we definitely have a long way to go." 
By believing that their best performance is on the horizon, the Irish hope to continue to put together a team effort that gets the job done, as they did this weekend. 

Robert L. Franklin, M.D. ann.ounces the opening South Bend office for the practice of 
PSYCHIATRY and PSYCHOANALYSIS 
Increased self·knowledge generates opportunities to resolve personal, relationship, and career pr?blems. l!niversity of Chicago medical faculty member with Amencan Psycho­analytic Association accredited training. Medication used only when indicated. For appointment call 234-5656. 
EAST lANSING, Mich. (AP) ­George Perles likely won't con­tinue as both football coach and athletic director at Michigan State when his one-year trial in the dual roles expires June 30. 
Five of eight members of the university's governing board told The Associated Press they are opposed to having Perles hold both jobs. Two said they support Perles and one said she is undecided. 
Perles lost three supporters when one was defeated in the November election, one declined to seek re-election, and another gave up her position in January to take a job with the state. He also lost the backing of the governor's office when Democrat James Blanchard was defeated. 
The controversial 5-3 vote a year ago gave Perles a one-year trial run with no extra pay. The decision to honor Perles' re­quest was made hastily after Perles, who revived an ailing Spartan football program and has a 54-36-4 record over eight years, negotiated with the New York Jets for a coaching job. 
Perles came to Michigan State in 1983 from the Pittsburgh Steelers, where he was defensive coordinator for the four-time Super Bowl champions. 
Two of the people who voted against the appointment as athletic director are now chairman and vice chairman of the board. 
Michigan State president John DiBiaggio said he remains firm in his opposition to any person serving in both jobs. 
"I have not changed one iota," he said. "No matter what George Perles does, it will not alter my view. Now if he should decide he wants to be just ath­letic director, I have no objec­tion to him being a candidate." 

• 



. ).J 
' ~ 11,;'1\dt\ I I ••. : .: •\ 

page 16 The Observer Monday, February 4, 1991
-
Women's press sparks comeback over Lady Aces 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 

EVANSVILLE -Xavier coach Mark Ehlen said it would take "an exceptional effort" for an MCC opponent to beat Notre Dame's women's basketball team. 
For 25 minutes, Evansville had just such an effort. 
But in the final 15 minutes, Notre Dame came up with an exceptional effort of its own to preserve its national ranking and team-record 14-game win streak. 
When Irish head coach Muffet McGraw called time with 14:47 to go in Saturday afternoon's game, Notre Dame was behind 40-34. The Lady Aces were not shooting particularly well, but they were scrambling for loose balls, pounding the ball inside effectively, and crashing the of­fensive boards. 
And the Lady Aces had the 
Women 
continued from page 20 

McGraw did play one fresh­man during the second half ­Kristin Knapp -who played a solid 22 minutes for the Irish. 
"I thought Kristin Knapp did a great job coming off of the bench." said McGraw. "She re­bounded, she scored a little bit. She played real well." 
After losses last week by #15 Northwestern and #16 UNLV, Notre Dame looks to move up in the Associated Press poll, which will be released today. 
The Irish will face Loyola at the Joyce ACC on Tuesday night. In their only other meet­ing of the year, Notre Dame de­feated the Ramblers 66-55. At the time, McGraw called the game "a pretty weak effort." 
$35,000 SCHOlARSHIPS: THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS. 
Two-year NROTC scholarships offer tuition and other financial assistance worth as' much as $35,000 to qualified college sophomores. 
The Navy pays for tuition, textbooks, instructional fees and gives you an allowance of$100 a month for up to 20 months during your last two years of college. 
Upon graduation and completion of require­ments, you'll become an important part of the Navy adventure as a Navy officer. 
Call your Navy representative for more information on this challenging and rewarding program. 
L T Tricia Vislay Naval ROTC Unit Notre Dame 239-6065/7274 
.A"{ TV ROTC You and the Navy.
N.tl.l' .1 Full Speed Ahead. 
lead to show for their effort. 

Maybe the Irish were in awe of newly-renovated Roberts Stadium. Maybe they didn't ad­just with the weather and warm up their shooting touch. But Notre Dame simply couldn't execute its game plan in the first 25 minutes. 
"They (Evansville) came out really fired up, and we were in a situation where the shots weren't falling for us," sopho­more Coquese Washington said. 
For only the second time all year, the Irish were behind at halftime, 30-28. Yet, even in these unfamiliar waters, they didn't panic. 
"We weren't concerned. It was just a matter of executing and not that we were down," senior Krissi Davis said. 
"The players came out of the locker room with a lot of inten­sity, and they played hard in the second half," McGraw said. 
And still, Evansville extended 
THINK Carmelite 
• SCHOOLS e CAMPUS MINISTRY 
THINK 

• PARISHES 
VOCATION RETREAT WEEKEND-Mar. 8-10,1991
PRAY•• 

------------CONTACT-----------­Rev. Peter McGarry, 0. Carm., Vocation Director 1317 Frontage Road • Darien, Illinois 60559-5341 
• (708) 852-4536 • 

Kristin Knapp 

its lead after the intermission. Even after the Irish had gone into a zone in an effort to stop the Lady Aces' inside attack. Even though Evansville's lead­ing scorer, Diane Starry, had zero points. 
But still Notre Dame wouldn't panic. Instead, it called time­out. 
Out of the break, the Irish ran a play for Kristin Knapp, and 
American Heart Association 

the freshman delivered with a key jumper from the free-throw line. 
"Kristin Knapp did an excel­lent job coming off the bench," McGraw said. "She rebounded well and scored a little bit." 
And then Notre Dame went into a full-court press. 
"We just felt like we had to do something different," McGraw said. 
The press had the desired ef­fect. Evansville missed a long jumper. Knapp hit a 16-footer. A Lady Ace turnover led to a Washington three-pointer. Another Evansville miss. Davis fights for an offensive rebound and scores. 
"We sm:prised Evansville with the press. It helped slow them down and get our momentum going," Davis said. 
Within three minutes, the Lady Ace lead had evaporated, 
STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGSI ,.------This Week Only-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT: 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts 1 
~--------------~il~~u~s-~ 
I SSOFF ANY PERM 1 
1 Mast~[£~ 1 ~------------------~ 
No Double Discounts 
With Student I.D. 
We Trim Prices, Not Quality Walk-Ins Welcome 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 277-3770 
and Evansville called a timeout of its own. But along with the lead, it had lost its composure. The Lady Aces began shooting threes as if they were down 30 and not three, which only fueled the Irish fast break. Notre Dame cruised to a 73-56 victory. 
"They didn't quit. They could have said, 'It's not our day,' but instead they fought back," McGraw said. "That was one of our best efforts in the second half all year. We haven't been behind much, and it was a new thing for us. 
"The defense· created oppor­tunities for us. We got a couple of turnovers off the press, and got some easy baskets, and that got us going. When we run, we're happy." 
And Evansville, for all its ef­fort, wasn't at game's end. 
Monday, February 4, 1991 The Observer page 17 
Olivet hoops beats Saint Mary's 
SMC swimmers win big 
-

By CHRIS BACON Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team dropped its record to 8-6 Saturday, losing to Olivet College, 64-54. 
Junior guard Janet Libbing led the Belles effort with 29 points, scoring .24 in the first half. 
The Belles had trouble con­taining Olivet's (8-9) leading scorers Julie Davis and Lisa Osterich. Davis shot 10 of 22 for 21 points and Osterich shot 10 of 15 from the field for 20 points. 
"Davis in an outstanding ball player. She's a great perimeter shooter as well as passer," ex­plained Belles head coach Marv Wood. 
In the first half, the Belles immediately dropped behind, trailing 13-4 in the first three minutes. But the team adjusted their game and cut the lead to two at the half, 32-30. 
"We had spurts of playing like a team and that is what got us back in the game," explained Libbing, "but we played as indi­viduals; and as individuals, you end up losing." 
In the second half, the Belles' half time adjustments proved ineffective as they fell behind 51-40 in seven minutes of play. Olivet held the Belles and stretched their lead to eight for the remainder of the game. 
"They were just sharper. 

Prof. G. Lopez Learning To Teach: Real Skills and Helpful Tips Monday, February 4th at the CCE from 7-9 p.m. 1 hr. general session and 1hr. discussion groups 
Much more alert than us, "said Wood. "We made several ad­justments, but it didn't do much." 
Injuries continue to plague the team. The Belles played without the performance of starting forward Catherine Restovich, junior, who was ill. Junior forward Linda Garret and sophomore center Kim Holmes both played with back problems. 
Olivet out rebounded the Belles by 18, pulling down 53 boards to Saint Mary's 35. The Belles committed only 15 turnovers while forcing 20 Olivet turnovers. 
Olivet shot 26 of 63 from the line for 41 percent and 10 of 19 from the line for 53 percent. The Belles shot 22 of 68 from the line for 32 percent and 6 of 7 from the line for 86 percent. 
Tuesday night the Belles travel to the University of Chicago. Chicago defeated Saint Mary's 85-73 in the final round of Saint Mary's Roundball Classic earlier in the season. 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swimmers outshone Hillsdale College Saturday at Notre Dame, 110­59. 
While the Belles easily de­feated their opponent, the final score would have been a greater landslide had the Belles not swam so many exhibition and off events. 
"It was fun for our women to swim off events and to win the meet," said Saint Mary's coach Dennis Cooper. "It gave them a chance to swim events they would not ordinarily have the chance to." 
In the 200 individual medley, Bethany Thompson, 
Hedy Finn and Stacy Eisworth placed first, second and third. Bethany Thompson, a frees tyler, swam the 100 breaststroke and would have placed first, but instead swam exhibition. Cooper formed a successful 200 freestyle relay team from divers Kelly Collins, Erin Mahoney, Kathleen Golski and Carrie Cummins. 
A new diving record was set by Carrie Cummins on the three meter board, as she scored 243.7 points. 
The Belles, whose record is currently 4-3, are scheduled to swim against Illinois Benedictine College at Illinois this weekend. 
Iowa tops ND wrestlers 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame wrestling team suffered a disappointing 52-0 road loss at the hands of the second-ranked Iowa Hawkeyes this weekend. 
The Irish, who had enjoyed 
Are You Serious About Your Christian Faith? 
Then, please join us for small group Bible studies and prayer. For more information call: 
277-7229 

sponsored by Campus Crusade for Christ 
The Finance Club is sponsoring the 33rd annual Finance Forum 
featuring 

Robert Kerrigan of Northwestern Mutual Life and Frank Oelerich of Morgan Stanley 
CLUB TUESDAY 
Kick off MARDI GRAS 
•ith 

BRIAH HUSKEY~•• in Haggar Parlor Feb.S 9-11P-•­
sponsored by SAB 
perhaps their most successful week of the season prior to the weekend debacle must now compose themselves before their match with the eighth­ranked Nebraska Cornhuskers this Friday at the ace. 
"It was just ugly," said Notre Dame coach Fran McCann. "They were just really physical. Our kids stayed tough for a pe­riod and then got into trouble. We just couldn't handle them physically. 
"I'm disappointed. We didn't wrestle up to the task, and we didn't stay intense for seven minutes. I'm disappointed be­cause I thought that we were ready when we were not. We just were not mentally tough enough for that level of compe­tition." 
The Irish, whose previous worst loss was a 51-0 lambast­ing at the hands of North Carolina State in 1980-81, were unable to get on track during the course of the meet. 
In the 118 pound meet, Irish freshman Chris Jensen suffered a possible separated shoulder, while J .J. McGrew (177) sprained an ankle in a two­point loss. 
Yet the Irish did not only suffer on the mats. Notre Dame also suffered a temporary setback in its drive for respeetability. 
"Going into the meet, we were looking to gain some respectability," noted McCann. ''I'm disappointed because we were not respectable at all. Of course, they had something to ·-­do with that -nobody has the horses to compete with them." 
.. 
.­



f_ page 18 The Observer Monday, February 4, 1991 
I 
Lesson 
continued from page 20 
the football season, and which doomed the Notre Dame hoopsters on Saturday. 
The Irish were still in striking distance, behind by five at 30­25 with six minutes left in the first half when the Blue Devils used their depth to exploit the thin Irish bench. 
The five Notre Dame starters had played 89 of a total 100 minutes in the first half, and with the Duke players fresh and well-rested. the Blue Devils took off on a 18-0 run that broke the back of the Irish. 
"We had one of our more athletic teams in there at that time," said Krzyzewski. "Instead of walking the ball up the court, we ran it up." 
And when the worn-out Irish couldn't run up and down the court with the Blue Devils, the fate of the game was more or less sealed. 
Devils 
continued from page 20 
12 and Daimon Sweet and Brooks Boyer added 10 each. 
The win marked another strong effort by Duke's bench, which outscored the Irish re­serves 29-12. The Blue Devil bench dominated the Georgia Tech bench 31-0 in a Duke vic­tory last Wednesday. 
Junior center Christian Laettner scored 20 points and pulled down 10 rebounds to lead Duke, while Bill McCaffrey and Thomas Hill added 18 points each. 
"I was really pleased with my team," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "Having Laettner in there, it's really hard for them to match up. I think he played one of his bet­ter games today." 
Duke's depth was most evi­dent near the end of the first half when it went on the 18-0 run that later proved fatal for Notre Dame. 
The Irish trailed just 28-25 with 6:04 left in the half when Tower scored inside after an offensive rebound. But the Blue Devils then took command, scoring the next 18 points to push the margin to 46-25 with just 20 seconds remaining. 
Boyer finally stopped the bleeding with a three-pointer from the left wing with seven seconds left, but it was not in time to heal the wound. McCaffrey did the most damage during the spurt for Duke with nine points. 
"Our depth really took its toll toward the end of the first half." Krzyzewski said. "I think we were fresher at that time than Notre Dame was." 
Said Tower, "That's been the history all season. We give up a spurt when we don't need it. Against better teams, they're bigger spurts." 
Notre Dame shot just 33 per­cent from the field in the first half, but more importantly, connected on just 4 of 11 free throw attempts. 
"In the first half, we missed a lot of foul shots that could have put us in a better spurt," Phelps said, 
The teams traded baskets early in the second half before Notre Dame made its run with the score 75-58 and 5:27 left. 
The Irish pulled within 11 at 75-64 when Sweet hit two free throws and then cut the lead to 10 at 79-69 on a Bennett three­pointer. 

But Duke scored seven con­in serious doubt for Notre secutive points to take a 86-69 Dame, which will host LaSalle advantage with one minute left on Wednesday, but Phelps is 
that put the game away. looking only at the next game. McCaffrey hit four straight free throws in that stretch. "The most important thing is 
The pertinent part is that we to get the kids to play every played well and held our poise game the best they can," Phelps when they made that run." said. "I don't teach kids to giveKrzyzewski said. up. Let's just worry about the 
The loss left a post-season bid next game." 
ND/SMC SKI CLUB PRESENTS: 

SUMMIT, COLORADO 
Fri. March 8-Sat. March 16 
*Transportation via bus 
*6 nights lodging 
*5 day lift pass (opt. 6th day) *group party 
*lunch on the mountain 
*group dinner * $410.00 
Informational meeting/Last Sign Ups Tues. Feb. 5 
8:00 Nieuwland Science Building Rm. 123 Questions? Call: Bob 283-3588 or Chris 283-1606 
When the Great 
American Dream isn'tgreat enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley,C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
hurdles. Mark Dailey of Eastern
Meyo 
Michigan fended off Georgetown's Ethan Frey and
continued from page 20 
Neal Newman of Michigan to 

Notre Dame throwers also capture the 800 meter run in turned in solid performances, 1:48.7. • highlighted by freshman Jim Frey's Georgetown teammate, Flanagan's shot put of 53 feet, junior Steve Holman flirted 7 inches. with the four minute mile bar­
Numerous other athletes rier for three laps before from across the country took coasting uncontested to a 4:01 advantage of Loftus' speedy victory in the annual Meyo oversized track to qualify for mile. the March NCAA meet in events Next Saturday, the Irish ranging from the sprints to travel to Purdue University for 3000 meters. the Central Collegiate 
Most notably, Syracuse Championships, a meet which product Qadry Ismail dupli­features the top programs in cated his brother's NCAA quali­the Midwest. including fying feat as he sped to a 7.27 Wisconsin, Michigan, and second victory in the 55-meter llinois. 
A 
Touch a life. Give to the United Way. 
.... 
L"1 fkula ~: 

Cheers! It's my birthday! Have one on me! 
Have a great one Lizbeth 

Students planning on applying to medical school will be facing a completely revised Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) starting in Ap:il 1991 The Association of American Medical Colleges has announced that the new MCAT will measure a broader range of skills. 
Fortunately, the test makers aren't the only ones making changes Stanley H Kaplan, the first name in MCAT prep. has already designed a brand new course to help students get ready for the brand new test. All our lessons, home study notes, practice tests, and review will reflect the latest MCAT format and content. 
Does Kaplan preparation work? Over HALF th.e students in medical school today are Kaplan alumni New test? No problem. 
~ STANLEY H. KAPIA.~
1 

Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances 
l7l7 [_ SOUIH AlNO A~. 
SOlllB BE )d), I~ 4b6H 
219/21:?--'l:J }'j 
4/27/91 MCAT Prep Cl<.~ss starts 2/2/91. 
Another feature of the immense depth is that the opposition never knows who will step to the forefront next. Like Mirer taking control against Michigan or Rick Watters exploding for 170 yards against Tennessee, the Blue Devils have a seemingly endless bench, full of stars. 
On this particular day, it was Thomas Hill's turn to play the star. The 6-4 sophomore burned the Irish for 18 points on 6 for 9 shooting in 22 minutes of play. 
"Thomas Hill came off the bench and played well," said Duke star Christian Laettner. 
Including Thomas Hill's 18 points, the Duke bench outscored the Irish subs 29-12. 
While the starting five for the Irish were able to keep the game close, even while shooting poorly, the Notre Dame subs simply couldn't keep up with the Duke reserves. 
OK, so the Notre Dame football program and Duke basketball program have some similarities~ What does this mean for the Irish hoops squad? 
Nothing, possibly. But then again, this season and the fall­out associated with it will be watershed marks for Notre Dame basketball. Unless things change drastically in the next few weeks, the Irish will have their first losing season in nine years, and for only the third time in the Digger Phelps era. 
There have been mumblings that it is impossible to graduate student-athletes and win games at the same time. That is absolute hogwash. The Irish football team and the Duke basketball team are perfect examples that you can win both on the field and in the classroom. 
So if the Notre Dame basketball program is looking for a model, Duke is the obvious choice. 

' ­
I' 
r \ 
Monday, February 4, 1991 "ih3 Ob:;·:;rver page 19
-----------------------·-:..:_:_________________ 
CAMPUS CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Rajah's wife 58 How rioters run
7 p.m. Women's gathering. Wilson Commons Lounge. 
34 Use soap and 59 One of the 
For details contact Ann Seckinger (232-9750) or Michelle 1 Let on water Muses Prah (239-5368). Sponsored by The Year of Women. 6 Diego's double 
35 Egg: Comb. 60 "-Wantforaffirmative 
form Christmas . _. " 10 Theater section 
7:30 p.m. Women's basketball, Notre Dame vs. Loy­36 --Stanley 61 Apple leftover 14 Designer
ola . .JACC. Gardner 62 Copter part 
Geoffrey 

37 Meager 63 Delight 15 Norse god of 
39 "Hansel and 64Gentleand 
war

LECTURES Gretel" prop caring 16 Butterine 
40 Vigoda or 65 All tuckered out 17 Cleo's boat, Lincoln
Monday e.g. 
41 Avoid 

DOWN
18 A Druid, for one 42 Memorable 19Aida of battleship
6:30 p.m. Lecture, "Nutritional Needs for Women," 1 Israel's Eban 
"M*A*S*H" 43 Hanukkah
Karen Seegers, R.D., St. .Joseph Medical Center. Faculty 2-reckoning
20 Pre-Christmas latkes
Dining Room, South Dining Hall, second floor. Sponsored 3 Entrepreneur
purchase 47 Diminutive
by The Year of Women Committee, University Food Ser­Griffin 
23 "People-­ending
vices and University Counseling Center. 4 "Picnic"
Funny" 48 German article 
playwright24 Fish eggs 49 Hanukkah 
s"IWasa­
7 p.m. GSO Professional Development Workshop, 
25 Christmas purchase Werewolf"
"Learning to Teach: Real Skills and Helpful Hints," Prof. treats 57 Lightning flash 
& British football 
George Lopez. Center for Continuing Education. Spon­
7Thought

sored by Graduate Student Union & UNO Office of Grad­
aSpot for a
uate Studies. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
houseplant 9 Savings bond's
7:30 p.m. "An Evening with Spike Lee," Stepan Center. 
plus

Sponsored by Ideas & Issues Commission, Student Union 
28 African term of 39 Furniture wood 51 Mine, to
10 Replete with 
Board. Admission is $3 for students and $5 for general address Marceau
mooIa 41 Norman town public. 29 Took to one's 52 Unicorn feature 
11 Spanish 42 Deportment stewpot 53 Let fall 
heels 44 Em, to Dorothy 30 "It's a 

MENU 12 Equipment 54 Tardy
Wonderful Life," 45 Pitched woo 
13 Era after era 55 Collar type 
e.g. 46 Security org. 
21 Uno, due,­56 Separate and 
31 Levels (off) 49 Gangster's gal arrange22 Biblical 32 Clementine's

Notre Dame 50 That Gallic girl 57 Shopping aid 
carpenter 
shoe size 25 Filmdom's 33 Harvest Greta 
37 A closet Answers to any three clues in this 
Meatloaf 

organizer puzzle are available by touch-tone
Chicken Teriyaki 

38 Ryder or phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ each 
Pasta Primavera 

Bordeaux: Fern. Stanley minute).
Rice Pilaf 



CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON CALVIN AND HOBBES f\ER£ CC>t<\E.5 T\-1£ 
WE. OIL 
'(O\l I'OURED
BUT WHf..TS \\-II'S?! 
f\t.S G0\1-t<i:. FULL 
TA.NKER 
INK IN THt:

G\N-lT 5~\P.' 
SPEE.O T\-\\<!:1\JGI-\ Wt.

f.J\~000000.' 
OAN<*I<o\l'S ~to.\T .'

AH~OOO.' 


NQa\ ·~-r 

CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
1 
1 




BILL WATTERSON 


--~ 


.. 


' I -~
,..-----­
------. 
Monday, February 4, 1991
page 20 

Duke throttles Notre Dame for second time this year 
Sports 
Blue Devils 
Irish should learn lesson from Duke 
dump NO at It was a startling sight Saturday after the Duke game. While this 
ACC, 90-77 · reporter was trying to get quotes from Blue Devil players, he had to fight through hordes of Duke fans seeking
By GREG GUFFEY 
autographs and pictures. 

Sports Editor The scene was familiar, reminiscent of the atmosphere outside a Notre Notre Dame had enough Dame locker room after the Irish horses to run the race, but not football team had vanquished yet
enough to contend down the 

another opponent. Rich Kurz 
stretch against Duke on 

However surprising it might sound, Sports Writer 
Saturday at the Joyce ACC. a number of similarities exist between ......;.________ The seventh-ranked Blue the Notre Dame football squad and the Devils used their superior Duke hoops squad, a program the Irish might be wise to look to as 
depth in gaining a 90-77 victory a model in future years. over the Irish before a sell-out All of the similarities begin with the academic institutions crowd of 11,418. Notre Dame themselves. Both Duke and Notre Dame are top-notch schools. For fell to 8-13, while Duke im­this reason, academics always come before athletics, and both proved to 18-4. schools not only expect their players to graduate, they demand it. It was the fourth game in Duke and Notre Dame both have long traditions in their sports;eight days for the tired Irish, the Irish football history is well-documented, while the Blue Devils who shot just 36 percent from have been in· Final Fours since the early '60s. the field and 62 percent from The similarities extend to the coaches of ooth programs. Notre 
the foul line. 

Dame's Holtz made his reputation as a coach by enforcing strict 
"I thought .our kids gave it discipline and preaching unflagging loyalty to the program. their best shot with what they Blue Devil coach Mike Krzyzewski lettered in basketball at West could do," Notre Dame coach Point and coached at military prep schools and academies for 11 Digger Phelps said. "When you years, with one side trip -to work as an assistant at Indiana miss foul shots like that, that's University for the ultimate taskmaster, Bob Knight. With a resume a sign you're tired. When you like that, it should be obvious that he is a disciplinarian.play four games in eight days, Both coaches are winners, with their teams consistently in the 
that happens. You just don't 

Top 10. Under Holtz's tutelage, the Irish have won a national have time to focus playing four championship, finished second once and sixth this year.games in eight days." Krzyzewski has led his Blue Devils to three Final Fours in the past
Notre Dame placed five play­four years. ers in double figures, led by ju­The result of the combination of tradition and recent national­nior guard Elmer Bennett with championship contention: superb players flocking to the schools,19 points. Kevin Ellery tossed hoping to win a national championship. That, in turn, leads to in 18 points, Keith Tower had tremendous depth, which the Irish used to their advantage during The 0JeaverI Mitt Mtliro
see DEVILS I page 18 see LESSON/ page 18 
Kevin Ellery powers his way to the hoop during Notre Dame's 90-77 Saturday loss to the Duke Blue Devils. 
lsmails dazzle Meyo Invite crowd 
By HUGH MUNDY Led by senior captain Ryan becoming the third Notre Dame 
Sports Writer Cahill, who joined Ismail on the representative at the NCAA list of NCAA indoor qualifiers meet as he finished in 8:10, just with an impressive time of 8:07 one half second above the 
For most of the over 1,000 in the 3000-meter run, many qualifying mark. spectators jammed into Loftus Irish athletes bettered qualify­The Irish fell victim to an­Sports Center on Saturday, the ing standards for the March other near miss in the 5000­highlight of the Fourth Annual IC4A Championships at meter run as junior Kevin Meyo Invitational came when Princeton University. Keegan shaved an incredible 35 Notre Dame's Raghib "Rocket" Freshman Willie Clark, com­seconds from his previous best Ismail blasted to a track record peting in his first meet for Notre effort but came up one second and NCAA qualifying time of Dame, sprinted to a time of 6.34 short of the IC4A standard of 
6.20 seconds in the 55-meter seconds in the 55-meter dash, 14:38. dash. finishing second only to Ismail Sophomore Ed Lavelle met a 
However, as Irish coach Joe and easily qualifying for the similar fate as he cruised to a Piane said, Ismail's spectacular IC4As. second-place 4:13 mile only to effort was just one of several Other Irish athletes to meet miss qualifying by eight tenths outstanding performances IC4A criteria included sopho­of a second. which epitomized the contest's more John Coyle and senior Pat In the field events, Greg high level of competition. Kearns, both of whom con­Matteo continued his outstand­
"Overall, the invitational was quered the 3000-meter run ing pole vaulting , registering a excellent," said Pian e. "Rocket standard, finishing seventh and leap of 15 feet 6 inches to equal may have brought the crowd, 11th in the intensely competi­his season best. 
...,%.

but the rest of the meet kept tive race. r them there." Coyle narrowly missed 
ND women's basketball wins record 14th straight 
By ROLANDO DEAGUIAR game plan. three-point scoring, knocking 15. The Lady Aces put back pound it down low." 
Sports Writer "We were down six, and they down an average of eight treys offensive rebounds repeatedly, McGraw was especially im­didn't quit," said McGraw. "We per game. The Irish, however, while the Irish were beaten pressed with Davis' perfor­EVANSVILLE -After trailing could have said 'Hey, it's not held the Lady Aces to two for 17 back by Evansville's bigger mance, after the senior forward 
.... 
by as many as six in the second our day,' but they really fought three-point shooting in the players . scored 13 points in the second half, the 19th-ranked Notre back and did a great job." game. Evansville scored 26 points on half. Dame women's basketball team After the time out, the Irish "Today, we had a lot of mis­field goals in the lane in the "I think Krissi Davis took over came back to defeat Evansville scored nine in a row, and never matches. They were a lot bigger first half. After the Irish the game for a couple of 73-56. again fell behind. than we were," said McGraw. switched to the zone defense at minutes," said McGraw. "We 
Saturday's victory extended Notre Dame's defense brought "So we ended up going with the halftime, Evansville was kept tried to get it inside to her, and the team's record winning them back into the game, as zone, and we went with the full­away from the basket, and in the first half, they were sag­streak to 14, and also marked both the press and zone defense court press to use the clock." made only two inside shots ging around her, they wouldn't the 34th consecutive MCC win instituted by McGraw worked to Despite the fact that the Lady throughout the second stanza. let her get the ball. But in the for the Irish. perfection. Aces committed 12 turnovers The Irish offense, however, second half, they extended a lit­
Coquese Washington and The Lady Aces scored only six and shot .323 from the field in made it a priority to get teh ball tle, and we coulld get her the Krissi Davis each had 22 for the field goals in the last 14:47. the first half, Evansville led 30-inside during the second half. ball." Irish. The effort brought Davis' Notre Dame held Evansville to 28 at halftime. The game "We needed to get the ball McGraw used a six-player ro­career points total to three shy .328 field goal shooting for the marked only the second time down low," said Davis. "It just tation during the second half, as of 1,000 for her career. game, and limited Evansville's this season that Notre Dame seemed like we needed to work she put her most experienced 
The Irish trailed 40-34 with Diane Starry, averaging 15 has trailed at intermission. the ball a little bit more than players on the floor to run the 
14:47 left in the game when points through the Lady Aces' Evansville was able to domi­the first half. zone defense, which the Irish do coach Muffet McGraw called a first 18 games, to only two. nate the offensive boards dur­"We were taking some quick not run often. time out, and brought a full­Entering Saturday's contest, ing the first half, as they col­shots, and we just needed to get court press into the Notre Dame Evansville led the nation in lected 30 rebounds to the Irish's in the flow of the offense and see WOMEN I page 16 


see MEYO I page 18 Raghib "Rocket" Ismail flashed to victory in th~5=~~:h~2 seconds at the Meyo Invitational this weekend. 
.. 



