
. . ~D&~
~~;.:f'991 ~IIJit 
Se~~er -8&·
Ob 
~ W , ~~~tE~~~~.~~~m 
MONDAY , November 25, 1991 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey
The tradition continues 
Notre Dame students covertly gather across campus for the annual campus snowball fight. The incident traditionally takes place after the first substantial snowfall of the year. See story below. 

New St. Michael's to open in January 
By TIM CALLAHAN 
News Writer 
Laundry options for Notre Dame students will expand in January as St. Michael's Laundry, which burned down in November 1989, re-opens its doors. 
St. Michael's, now with a larger and updated facility be­hind the ND Credit Union on Douglas Hd., has the capacity to offer laundry service to every Notre Dame student. "The main difference between the old and new services is that before laundry service was mandatory for all Notre Dame males excluding females, while this new service will be optional for all Notre Dame males and females," said James Lyphout, associate vice president for business affairs. 
Laundry contracts will be offered to Notre Dame stu­dents. For $75, St. Michael's will provide $92 in services during the semester. Each ar­ticle of clothing that a person sends to be washed costs he or she a set charge, which will be deducted from their $92 balance. For example, shorts may be washed for $0.35 a pair and underwear for $0.15. 
Students may also choose not to sign a contract. Those not under contract will pay for each load that he or she sends to the laundry. The price for each individual load will be determined by the set price for each item. 
Refunds are also available for lost or damaged clothing. St. Michael's has set ceiling prices for every different gar­ment. The service reimburses up to 60 percent of the ceiling price. The set prices range from $50 for sweaters and jean jackets to $4 for socks. 
Every student that uses St. Michael's, whether under con­tract or not, must purchase laundry bags and labels, 
see LAUNDRY I page 4 


FAF's to be sent to Notre Dame students next week 
By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
All Notre Dame students who have previously applied for fi­nancial aid will be receiving Financial aid forms (FAF) for the 1992-93 school year in the mail next week, and the ND of­fice of financial aid urges stu­dents to return the forms as soon as possible, said Joe Husso. director of financial aid. 
Although the deadline for FAF return is not until February 28, 1992. Husso encouraged students to file the form as soon as possible because "there is not an unlimited number of dollars." 
"Often we can't help students because there's no money left," he said. 
Russo said that students should file the FAF shortly after January 1 even if not all tax information is available. Families should estimate tax information and send more ac­curate information later if there is a large discrepancy, he said. 
ND junior wins honors at national conference 
By RYAN KERRIGAN News Writer 
Notre Dame junior Dave Certo won national honors at the Model Organization of American States (MOAS) recent conference in Washington D.C. 
Certo was the head delegate for Notre Dame's Model United Nations Club at the Nov. 10-15 conference. He was named Outstanding Delegate over stu­dents from 41 U.S. and Canadian colleges. 
The criteria for the award 
was "the most capable speaker and the most able diplomat," Certo said. "The competition was between the head delegates of each school." 
Over 400 delegates competed at the conference, with each college's team representing an OAS nation. The Notre Dame delegation represented the Caribbean nation Barbados. 
The ND delegation was made up by Certo, Adeline Cassin, Rick Conners, John Donlan, Anthony Garces, Dan Hoffman, 
see OAS I page 6 
Snowball fight causes little damage 
Observer Staff Report 
Approximately 300 Notre Dame students were involved in a campus-wide snowball fight late Sunday and early Monday, according to Chuck Hurley, as­sistant director of ND Security. 
The only damage rendered by stray snowballs was a broken window in the Hockne M11morial on South Quad, said Hurley. No injuries were reported. 
The battle lasted from ap­proximately 11:40 p.m. until l a.m., with minor skirmishes still going on at 1:30 a.m., said Hurley. The battle site moved from North Quad to South Quad as the night progressed, according to a student who es­timated the number of belliger­ents at 900. 
Campus-wide snowball fights have traditionally occurred on the night of the first substantial snowfall of each academic year. 
The FAF is sent to the College Scholarship Service, an agency affiliated with the College Board, which determines how much the student's family is able to contribute toward the cost of education, said Russo. 
The College Scholarship Service then sends the estimate to the financial aid office at Notre Dame which determines the student's eligibility for as­sistance. 
If there is a difference be­tween the cost of attending Notre Dame and the family's estimated ability to pay, then the student is eligible for finan­cial aid, said Russo. He added that a student eligible for aid does not necessarily receive it. 
Russo said that Notre Dame uses five standards to deter­mine financial assistance: the level of need, ·government regu­lations, university policy, stu­dent credentials, and the avail­ability of resources-not neces­sarily in that order. 
The level of need is one of the most important aspects, said Russo. He added that what may be a large need at a state university may be only a modest need here. 
For example, an $18,000 need is considered a large need, but an $8,000 need, which may cover the entire cost of a state university, is here considered only a modest need. 
In distributing scarce re­sources, Husso said that the fi­nancial aid office often must target funds towards meeting 
see F.A.F./ page 4 

ND students mugged off-campus 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
Two Stanford Hall residents were robbed at gunpoint at the corner of Eddy and St. Vincent streets early Saturday morning, according to Chuck Hurley, as­sistant director of Security. 
The robbery occurred at around 2:30 a.m., Hurley said. Neither student was injured. 
One of the victims, who wished to remain unidentified, said that he and his friend were walking back to campus from Lafayette Square apartments on Eddy St. when they were ap­proached by man carrying a small revolver. 
The victims described the suspect as an 18-to-20 year old black male, about 5 feet 11 inches and approximately 155 lbs. He was wearing a baseball cap, a full-length black coat, and wire-rimmed eyeglasses. 
The gunman demanded money from the students. One of the students surrendered his wallet, while the other insisted that he had no money. 
The assailant took the wallet and ordered the students to run towards campus. The victim said they complied with the order, while the attacker ran in the other direction. 

The students reached the parking lot of the Alumni/Senior Club at approximately 2:45 am, when they reported the robbery to a ND Security officer on patrol. The officer proceeded to investigate the crime scene, but found no sign of the gunman. 
Anyone with information about this crime can contact ND Security at 239-5555. 



•!11J t ,,....·:"'A: 

Monday, November, 1991
The Observer 
··:·:. 
'::: FORECAST: 

To believe in God is death to life Why mourn when people die? Why do people continue to constantly dwell in another person's loss, putting themselves through more pain through the constant reminders. I understand if the loss of a person is R. Garr Schwartz yery close, but what does Sports Photo Editor 1t mean to go and pay respect to a lifeless body? -------­I had two friends die this summer within a matter of two weeks. At first I was kind of sad, but realistically their presence or significance in my life will be replaced by someone else. I find it kind of humorous that I always hear the same quote every time I go to a funeral or memorial service, "I'm sure he is much happier now that he is in heaven." What is that supposed to mean? People are always assumed off to heaven no matter what. Nobody ever says, "Gosh I hope hell doesn't suck too bad." All this furthers my belief that religion is dangerous. The Bible says something to the extent, "Blessed are those who have not seen, but still believe." All this quote means to me is believe and do not ask any questions. People are taught to accept the unexplainable as an act of faith; life is so much easier if a person believes in God. All of the sudden, all unexplainable occur­rences can be attributed to God. If something good happens, people thank God. If something bad happens, people just say, "Well, God must have had a reason for it." Better yet, people blame themselves for not having enough faith or not doing enough of the "right things." Everybody wants to give God the credit for the good things and not blame Him for the bad things. I say, if there is a God, why give Him credit for anything? If He did create us, then we could give him credit for life, but are we not good enough for achievements to be our own? Can we not learn from our own mistakes rather than expect to have God "teach us a lesson." 1\venty-three people from Killeen, Texas were murdered because some crazy refused to deal with life. People try to simplify their lives by not having to deal with death. People also like to believe in heaven because it simplifies their lives. As long as a person decides that there is a God, and that there is a heaven, death is insignificant. Death just takes a person to a "better place." To me it is all a big joke. Following the Christian beliefs, it seems that there is really no reason to live or to hope that another person does not die. Logically I should hope the world ends in a nuclear holocaust tomorrow. Then we would all be "much better off." I am unable to believe that there is anyplace better than earth because I do not want to die. I want life NOW. I want happiness NOW. I enjoy experiencing what I have been told to deny. Who wants to count on death to fulfill their earthly desires? The only fulfillment is that there are no longer any desires. I want to be satisfied when I die; satisfied that I became life in itself, not just lived it. When I die, throw my body in a fire and burn me. Have a party and celebrate YOUR life. Because regardless of your feelings towards me, there will be others to be what I am no more. These views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  
Today's Staff Production News Lisa Bourdon Peter Loftus Michelle Wood Kelly Lynch Business Accent Rich Riley Paige Smoron Peter Loftus Andy Runkle Sports Rich Szabo VIewpoint Rich Riley Graphics Brendan Regan Lab Tech R. Garr Schwartz The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

IIThanksglvlng Basket Delivery Anyone interested in November 27. Applications should be turned in to room helping put together or deliver Thanksgiving Baskets to 371 Fitzpatrick. South Bend families in need on Tuesday, Nov. 26, please call Kathy at 283-3429. We are especially in need of •Thanksgiving service opportunities Trips to the drivers, but all volunteers are welcome. L'Arche Community at Daybreak in Toronto and Saint 
Martin Porres House of Hope on Chicago, both Wednesday afternoon through Sunday morning. Contact 
•The application deadline for the College of Br. Bonaventure Scully (239-7353 L'Arche) or Jim Engineering summer program in London is Wednesday, DeMarco (283-1149 St. Martin de Porres). 
MARKET UPDATE ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 



•ln1920: Noted auto-racing driver Gaston Chevrolet died in 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ November 22 
a crash on the Los Angeles Speedway. 
• In 1947: The Motion Picture Association and other

NYSEINDEX 
societies voted to bar ten professionals, the "Hollywood Ten,"
208.17 • 2.04 
from the industry, and resolved to refuse jobs to Communists.
~~~~S&PCOMWOSITE 
• In 1965: Joseph Mobutu, army chief in the Congo,

376.14 • 3.92 
deposed President Joseph Kasavubu and installed himself as 
DOW JO~ INDUSTRIALS 
head of the government.
2,902.73 • 29.96 
•In 1976: O.J. Simpson, playing for the Buffalo Bills, broke his own one-game record of 250 yards by running 273 yards
PRECIOUS METALS 

against the Detroit Lions, who still won the game. 
• In 1984: Surgeons at Humana Heart Institute in Louiseville performed the world's second permanent artificial heart 
GOLD + $ l.OOto $369.60/oz. 
SILVER+ 1¢ to $4.135/oz. 
implant, removing the heart of 52-year-old William Schroeder Jand replacing it with an 11-ounce plastic and metal device. 
page2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

WORLD Honecker still a problem for Germans 
•BERLIN -German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, whose legal and diplomatic efforts have failed to secure the return of former East German leader Erich Honecker, tried Sunday to shame Honecker into returning to face trial. Kohl said if the 79-year-old Communist believes his iron rule was justified, then he should have the "courage" to let it be judged in a court. Honecker has been in Moscow since March. German officials have been pressing Moscow for his return. German officials have implored both Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and Russian President Boris Yeltsin to return Honecker to face trial. Yeltsin suggested in a recent interview that Honecker should be permitted to go into eXile in Chile, where a daughter lives. Germany is firmly op­posed. Chile has said he is not welcome without a valid German passport, which he does not have. 
British prisoner returns from Iraq 
•LONDON -Businessman Ian Richter returned to Britain on Sunday after 5 1/2 years in an Iraqi prison for a bribery conviction. After Richter was freed, Britain unfroze $125 million in Iraqi assets to be used for humanitarian purposes and relief supplies. The as­sets were frozen as part of U.N. sanctions against Iraq following its Aug. 2, 1990, invasion of Kuwait. Iraq broke diplomatic relations with Britain on Feb. 6 and withdrew all but one diplomat. The 45-year-old chemi­cal engineer was accompanied by Prince Sadruddin 
OFIITEREST 
Aga Khan, a U.N. envoy who had been in Baghdad to negotiate an agreement allowing the United Nations to continue relief work inside Iraq. Richter was arrested at Baghdad Airport in July 1986 on suspicion of bribery. Eight months later -in a trial lasting just over an hour -he was convicted of paying illegal commissions to a former Baghdad mayor and sen­tenced to life imprisonment. The mayor was later exe­cuted for corruption. 
NATIONAL 

Wilder criticizes Bush on racism 
•DUBUQUE, Iowa -Democratic presidential con­tender L. Douglas Wilder said Sunday that President Bush is ignoring a resurgence of racism in the United States. Wilder, the only black among the six major Democratic candidates, said that even though Bush last week signed a civil rights bill his support was less than ardent. "Even the day he signs the civil rights bill, he argues against what the Congress intended," Wilder said, blaming the Republicans and former President Reagan for fostering racial divisiveness. "The climate that's being created in America is quota, which sug­gests that somebody's after someone's job. Region against region," Wilder said. "It started way back down the line with Reagan using 'welfare queen' with­out documenting anything. Then you have Bush coming up with Willie Horton. Even Lee Atwater denounced that," he said, referring to the late chairman of the GOP. "Bush has yet to denouqce it." 
::/~ 
i 
,:::! 
r:--: 
=:·.·.· 
{:, 

Prsssure 
H L E3 ~ IT] 

ICE.

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Cloudy today and cold with flurries. High around 30. Clearing tonight and very cold. Low 
around 15. 
CHy H L Athens 68 ;;g Atlanta 45 32 Bet1in 39' 28 Boston 48 45 Chicago 28 24 Dallas-Ft.Worth 59 29 Denver 50 16 Detroit 30 26 Honolulu 66 73 Houston 60 31 Indianapolis 27 24 London 52 48 Los Angeles 84 52 Miami Beach 77 65 New Orleans 56 41 New YO!!< 58 45 Paris 41 28 Philadelphia 62 42 Rome 63 45 San Diego 76 44 San Francisco 67 49 Seattle 50 44 South Bend 26 23 Tokyo 63 52 
Washington, D.C. 53 43 
~~

r-------------~--­
Monday, November 25, 1991 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 

When in Rome 
Seniors Dan Laboe, Mike Sullivan (seated), and Shannon Poley mimic the Romans of ancient times at an off-campus party last weekend. Togas were a required for admittance. 


Club Column 

NOVEI\IJER 25, 1991 

l)The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to chock their mailboxes on the second Aoor of LaFortune. 
2) World Peace Action Group will meet Wednesdays at 7 pm in the CSC Coffeehouse. Everyone is welcome! 
3) Amnesty International will have a meeting and a letter writing session 
Nov. 25 from 7:30-8:30 in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4pm Thursday each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 LaFortune. 
The Observer 
page3 

Repair of nuclear plant planned 
COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) ­Nuclear plant workers planned to release radioactive gases into the air Sunday after 50,000 gallons of contaminated water leaked into a containment building the day before. 
Freeing the radioactive gases from from the building posed no health threat to the public or workers, according to Ken Clark, a spokesman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
The cause of the leak early Saturday at Duke Power Co.'s Oconee nuclear plant remained unknown because inspectors could not safely enter the af­fected area, but officials thought they had isolated the most likely cause. 
"The suspicion is that the problem is with a line that's used to measure pressure in the system," said Joe Maher, spokesman for Duke Power in Charlotte, N.C. "When we dis­covered the leak, this instru­ment went from measuring pressure to measuring zero." 
The building had to be vented to clear the radioactive gases so workers could enter Monday, Clark said. 
"I want to emphasize that what is released is not anymore than what the plant normally releases during routine opera­tion," Clark said. "An NRC spe­cialist will be there to see that (the plant) adheres to the re­quirements." 
Sandra Threatt, emergency planning coordinator for the state Department of Health and Environmental Control, said an inspection team that ar'rived soon after the spill found no unusual radiation levels. 
Duke Power reported an alert to the NRC at 2:14 a.m. Saturday after discovering a leak in the plant's 17 -year-old Unit 3 reactor. Thousands of gallons of radioactive steam gushed into the reactor's con­tainment building. The steam cooled to water. 
The plant remained on alert for more than 15 hours until the reactor was cooled to below 200 degrees. Alert status Is the second highest of four NRC classifications. The fourth, and most serious, is a general emergency. 
Clark said the tainted water on the floor of the containment building would be purged of radioactivity. Officials did not know how long repairs might take. 
"It's my information that they will begin to process a small amount of that water (Sunday) through the radioactive treatment system," he said. "Some of the water can eventu­ally be pumped back into the system or treated so that it is safely released back into the environment." 
The accident at the plant near Seneca, about 120 miles north­west of Columbia, caused no in­terruption to electrical service. 


College nuclear reactor shutdown 
PORTLAND, Ore. {AP)-High radiation levels in a building housing Reed College's small nuclear reactor prompted a shutdown, but no radiation escaped the building, a spokeswoman said Sunday. 
Radiation levels dropped steadily after the reactor was turned off Saturday afternoon, said Harriet Watson, a college spokeswoman. The cause of the problem was blamed on "pinhole" leaks in one of its fuel rods. 
"The situation never posed any environmental threat be­yond the reactor room itself," Watson said. 
The incident prompted decla­ration of an "unusual event," which is a low-level emergency requiring people to leave por­tions of the reactor building. 
"These very small leaks in fuel elements are not uncom­mon, and it appears that the 
Please Recycle Thank You. 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE FOR THE MAY 1992 CPA EXAM WILL BE CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SCIENCE HALL • LOWER LEVEL 
• 17 WEEK MONDAY-WEDNESDAY COURSE 
BEGINNING WITH SPECIAL EARLY CLASSES 12/2 & 12/4 
• FIRST 6 LECTURES FREE 
• EARN TUITION FREE CONTINUING HELP IN OVER 125 LOCATIONS 
• SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT 
• 30o/o FREE REPEAT TO ALL FORMER STUDENTS 
• SCHEDULE INFORMATION FOR ALL 125 LOCATIONS 
CALL 277 4366 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
equipment and the emergency procedures were more than sufficient to protect the public," said Greg Cook, spokesman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
The leak allowed radioactive gases to escape into the pool of water that covers the reactor to help cool it. When those gases started bubbling out of the water, they triggered the reactor room ventilation system and alerted operators to higher levels of radiation, Cook said. 
The college will submit a plan to the NRC for repairs before it restarts the reactor, probably not until early next year, he said. 
Reed is the only undergradu­ate college in the country with its own reactor. Known as a TRIGA Mark I, the washing­machine size reactor is used for research and educational pur­poses. 
The incident began at 3:15 
p.m. Saturday when monitors detected above-normal airborne radiation levels in the reactor building. Two staff members shut down the reactor and the building's ventilation system automatically sealed the building. 
Cook said the ventilation sys­tem has filters to prevent the escape of any radioactive parti­cles but some radioactive gases did escape. 
However, the maximum radi­ation level in the reactor room after the reactor was shut down was only about a tenth of a millirem, he said. 
"A typical cross-country flight will expose an individual to about three millirems of ra­diation," Cook said. 
Watson said classes at the college will continue on sched­ule Monday. 




Queen's lead singer Mercury dies of AIDS 
LONDON (AP) Rock musician Freddie Mercury, whose dramatic vocals helped make Queen one of the top pop music groups of the 1970s, died Sunday night of pneumonia brought on by AIDS, his publicist said. 
Only a day earlier, the 45­year-old Mercury had ended intense media speculation about his health by issuing a statement that he was stricken with the disease. 
Mercury died peacefully at his home in Kensington, west London, said his spokeswoman, Roxy Meade. "His death was the result of broncho-pneu­monia brought on by AIDS," said a statement from his publicity company. 
In his disclosure Saturday, Mercury said: 
"I felt it correct to keep this information private to date in order to protect the privacy of those around me. 
"The time has now come for my friends and fans around the world to know the truth and I hope that everyone will join with me, my doctors and all those worldwide in the fight against this terrible disease." 
Born Frederick Bulsara in Zanzibar, the son of a government accountant, Mercury rose to fame as the bravura singer for Queen, whose elaborate and occasionally bombastic songs made the group one of the favorites of the 1970s. 
Their hits included "Bohemian Rhapsody," "We Are The Champions" and "Crazy Little Thing Called Love." Mercury later released solo albums such as "The Great Pretender," which also sold well. 
In recent years, he had lived a secluded life and resisted responding to persistent rumors that he had contracted AIDS. 
After speculating for weeks that Mercury might have AIDS, British tabloids gave his confirmation big play. "Freddie: I've Got AIDS," News of the World screamed in 2-inch type. 
Photos published Sunday show that the disease, which attacks the body's immune system, had left him looking frail and gaunt. 
After Mercury's family returned to England, he at­tended Ealing College of Art, then joined Brian May, John Deacon and Roger Taylor to form Queen in 1971. 
Their debut album was "Queen" in 1973, followed by "Queen II" a year later with the single "Seven Seas of Rhye," which made the British charts. 
The "Sheer Heart Attack" album gave them a big hit with "Killer Queen," but it was "A Night At The Opera" which gave them a No. 1 with "Bohemian Rhapsody." 

·------··----~-----------------------------------­
page4 The Observer Monday, November 25, 1991 

Laundry F.A.F. 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
which will have his or her university objectives. 
laundry identification number It is university policy to 
and names. Laundry bags "enroll and graduate the best 
cost $2.50 and labels are students from the most diverse 
$0.10 each. background," he said, and 
funds are targeted to those 
St. Michael's posts a time students. 
schedule in each dorm to indi­
cate pick up and delivery 
Russo anticipates another in­times. The laundry is picked 
crease in costs next yeareach while
up at dorm, although the figures will not be 
students will claim their clean 
determined by the budget
clothes at a Student Bundle 
committee until early in the Distribution Center, located 
spring semester, he said. 

behind the Administration 
As a reflection of the increas­building. 
ing costs and the present stateIn addition to regular bundle 
of the economy in general,
service, St. Michael's offers Russo said that the university
dry cleaning and express 
has had more applications forlaundry. 
financial aid this year than in"We have already received any past year.
our first batch of signed con­
He expects this increase in 
tacts, and all signs are 
applications to continue, and positive that St. Michael's 
concluded, "We very much en­laundry service will be a courage students to get the FAF success," said Lyphout. rtled on time." 
Fighting continues in Croatia before accord 
ZAGREB, Yugoslavia (AP}­diplomatic negotiations, Croatia the conflict, which began after months. Zagreb and Belgrade, the fed­Fighting continued in Croatia has managed to internationalize Croatia declared independence The Osijek hospital reported eral and Serbian capital. Sunday even though a new the war," said Tudjman. in June. nine people were killed and 46 Vance said it was "very im­cease-fire was to take effect in Serbian President Slobodan "The simple drawing of a line wounded over the previous 24 portant" that the cease-fire ac­the secessionist republic and Milosevic indicated it might and putting troops along that hours. cord requires Croatian forces to pave the way for the deploy­take some time for the truce to line has not proved over the Laslovo, a strategically im­lift their blockade of Yugoslav ment of U.N. peacekeepers. take firm hold. years ·a very practical way" to portant village south of Osijek, army barracks in the republic. 
Thirteen previous truce "It has to be taken into preserve peace, Vance said was captured Sunday, said the "One of the big problems that agreements mediated by the account that the road from . after briefing Perez de Cuellar Yugoslav news agency Tanjug has led to the continuation of European Community all failed ideas and proposals to their about the truce accord. and Croatian sources. the fighting has been the to halt the fighting in the 5-implementation is neither easy Vance said he hoped an Refugees continued to flee blockading of those barracks," month-old civil war, and the nor simple," he told the agreement on peacekeeping Osijek, a city of 140,000 people said Vance, who was U.S. sec­United Nations says it will not Belgrade daily Politika. forces could be worked out and surrounding villages. retary of state under President send peacekeepers unless a Cyrus Vance, the U.N. envoy within a week. Hungarian state radio said Carter. cease-fire holds. who mediated the latest agree­Thousands of people have 1,500 refugees, including six On Sunday, about 200 federal 
In Rome, U.N. Secretary­ment on Saturday, said both been killed in the civil war. busloads of school children, soldiers began withdrawing General Javier Perez de Cuellar sides seemed to sincerely want Croat officials said fighting crossed into Hungary at one from the Pleso barracks at said he was "hopeful" about the peacekeepers and he hinted at continued Sunday, mostly border point alone by midday. Zagreb airport, Croatian radio latest truce. a possible compromise on how around Osijek, capital of the More than 2,300 crossed into reported. 
No specific time was set for such a force would be deployed. Slavonia region in eastern Hungary on Saturday. That was in accordance with the cease-fire to take effect, and Serbia has called for peace­Croatia. Attacks were reported by lo­an agreement reached Friday there were no signs that the keepers to separate ethnic Attacks on the Croat cal Croat officials on and for the army to leave barracks warring sides were complying. groups on Croatian territory. stronghold intensified last week around Karlovac, a federal around Zagreb within 15 days. 
Croatian President Franjo Croatia, which fears that would after Vukovar, a town 20 miles army garrison town 30 miles Croatia declared indepen­Tudjman, in a televised address legitimize the seizure of about a away on the Danube River bor­southwest of Zagreb, Croatia's dence on June 25 along with Sunday, told Croatians their third of Croatian territory by der with Serbia, fell to the Serb­capital. Croat officials said Slovenia. After several days of fight for independence from Serb forces, wants the peace­dominated federal army. Nearly there also was an artillery at­fierce fighting in Slovenia, the Yugoslavia had "reached its keepers on the official border encircled by the army and tack on Nova Gadiska, 80 miles Serb-dominated federal gov­culmination" and "the aggres­between the republics. fighters from Croatia's Serb southeast of Zagreb. ernment dropped its opposition sor has not achieved his goals." But Vance said U.N. troops minority, Osijek has been Fighting also was reported on to independence for the ethni­
"By successful defense and might be sent to "flashpoints" in shelled almost daily for several the main highway between cally homogeneous republic. 
Democrats divided over party d·irection 
Philadelphia South Jersey Club 
DES MOINES, Iowa (AP} -Missing from the pack was "Americans increasingly are The major Democratic presi­New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, saying it is a possibility that dential candidates deepened who said Sunday on ABC's George Bush will be a one-term 

Christmas Bus 
their divisions over the party's "This Week with David president," Kerrey said. direction and began to jab at Brinkley" that he's not running 
Leaving Friday 12/20 
each other as they slogged for president "at this moment." For his part, Brown dismissed 
Returning 1/13
through a snow-packed the incident involving Kerrey Midwestern weekend. Cuomo says his immediate and the joke. 
Cost $140 Round Trip
"The weather is bad but the problem is working with the "I've been called a lot of politics is hot," Iowa legislature to devise a multiyear things," Brown said. "Governor 
Sign up at LaFortune Info Desk 
Democratic Party spokesman budget to deal with New York's Moonbeam, it's better than Joe Shannahan said as the can­persistent budget problems. some of the jokes I've been 
Monday 3:00 -5:00 or 
didates spelled out their differ­He said he'd make his deci­hearing lately." ences to about 1,000 Iowa sion on a presidential run Brown was critical of prob­
11/25 7:00-9:00 
Democratic activists. "when I am convinced it's bad lems caused by special-interest Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton for the Democrats for me to campaign money. 
Any Questions contact Mike complained about those who delay them any longer. ... I am "You can't do a lot of govern­doubt he's "a real Democrat," not yet out of time." ing if every day you have to 
Folgla Z73-ZI03 
while former Massachusetts Harkin, meanwhile, cheered raise $10,000 or $20,000," he Sen. Paul Tsongas worried labor activists when he told said. "We're caught in a stran­about the "class warfare" them he didn't mind being la­glehold." theme being sounded by some beled a protectionist. Wilder, the only black candi­of his rivals. "My goodness, what a horri­date in the field, met with vic­
Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin said ble accusation," he said. "That tims of a cross-burning incident there had been class warfare someone who would want to be in Dubuque, then hinted he may fM 10 years. "And guess president of the United States · challenge Harkin on his home what?," he asked. "We lost. It's would want to defend our jobs turf. time to turn the tables." and our workers." "I think Iowa is perfectly sit­
But Nebraska Sen. Bob But Tsongas said Democrats uated for the message I bring Kerrey countered: "We need to "cannot be protectionist, we and I don't concede Iowa to do much more than redistribute cannot engage in class warfare. anyone," said Wilder, while the income." Our obligation is not to the other Democrats took pains to 
Virginia Gov. Doug Wilder Democratic Party. Our obliga­avoid appearing as if they were hinted he would challenge tion is to the country." ch&llenging Harkin at home. Harkin on his home turf before Kerrey, who recently got into the Feb. 10 precinct caucuses, hot water by repeating an ofT­The candidates earlier and former California Gov. color joke about rival Brown, courted party leaders in Jerry Brown attacked the stuck to his campaign theme Chicago. After a fund-raising "corrupt private and public that Democrats must focus on dinner here, there were hand­power" caused by special-inter­health care, and insisted the shakes and barn dancing in est campaign money. party's chances are improving. South Dakota. 


Monday, November 25, 1991 
Congress agrees on sweeping crime bill 
WASHINGTON lAP) -House and Senate conferees agreed Sunday to a sweeping crime bill that would apply the death pnnalty to some 50 federal of­fenses and require a five-day waiting period for handgun purchases. 
llouse Democrats said they planned to bring the $3.1 bil­lion anti-crime package to a vote Monday while Senate Hepublicans vowed to fight passage and predicted a veto by President Bush if they failed. 
Throughout the stormy, three­hour conference, Democrats tteeused Hepublicans of trying to stall enactment of the package before Congress adjourns this week to give Bush a political issue. 
Meanwhile, a Senate-House conference met informally for several hours Sunday to discuss a transportation bill. The dual question before House and Senate negotiators is how best to spend $151 billion in federal aid to create a surface trans­portation system for the 21st Century, while at the same time dividing that money among a host of competing interests. 
Bush had threatened to veto gun-control legislation if Congress faillld to pass the anti­crime provisions he sought. 
But the Democratic-controlled conference raised the ante in the political battle over crime by rejecting several items sought by Bush that were con­tained in one but not both of the competing bills. 
"The administration will not accept a bill that guts the tough provisions passed by the House and the Senate," said Paul McNulty, a Justice Department spokesman said Sunday night. 
The House, which had passed a seven-day waiting period for handgun purchases last May, aecepted the Senate's five-day version, which requires police to conduct background checks of would-be buyers. 
House eonferees, however, refused to accept a Senate­passed ban on 14 types of semi­automatic assault weapons, noting strong opposition on the House floor to a broader pro­hibition. The House rejected a proposal by Hep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., to ban more than 20 assault-style weapons when it passed erime legislation last month. 
Conferees rejected a Senate provision imposing sharp new limits on appeals that state prisoners partieularly awaiting exeeution -ean file in federal court in favor of a tough but less restrictive version passed by the House. 
Bush had made reform of so­called habeas corpus petitions a hallmark of his anti-crime proposal. 
The bill also would apply the death penalty to about 50 fed­eral crimes, including terror­ism, political assassinations and drug trafficking on a large scale even if it doesn't result in a murder. 
Democrats called it a tough crime bill, civil libertarians said it was draconian and Republicans said it would make it harder to convict wrongdoers. 
"This is not a crime bill, it's a pro-criminal bill," said Sen. Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., who repeatedly objected during the three-hour conference to pro­cedures Democrats used for considering various provisions. 
Thurmond raised the possibil­ity of a Hepublican filibuster to stop passage in the Senate be­fore Congress adjourns this week. 
"Every avenue will be taken to stop this bill and if that fails, I think the president will veto it," Thurmond said. 
"I just can't believe Republicans would kill a death­penalty bill," said Sen. Joseph Biden Jr., D-Del., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "For the Republicans to vote against capital punishment-I'd like to see it." 
Biden and other Democrats accused Hepublicans of trying to stop enactment of the crime package this fall to give ijush an election-year issue in 1992. 
COMF LIVE IN STYLE AT 
RIVERSIDE NORTH 
APARTMENTS 
[}.ffX/Il!V7 4/VJJ $(JIJ(]J(Yk$ 

*1, 2, and 3 bedr~om apartments *Also, fully complemented Executive Suites and Furnished Apartments Available 
Beautifully located on the St. Joseph River ~ 5 minutes from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
1671 Riverside Drive ­
233-2212 

··.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··.·.•·.·.·.· ·..·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·,·.·..·.·,·..·.•.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.;.;.;.·-:-:-:.;-;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.:.;-:-:-:..-:-:-:-:-:-:-;.;.;-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:-: \!!! 
19Again! Hagov Bil'thllav Elana! 


We love you/ 
I Mom, Dad, Billlli.l ·=.! and Kathleen Cec/111 ~­
_.;::::::::::::::~::~=:::=:::=:::::::========:===================================:~~====~============~=~===:::==~=========================x~===================~=======:=:=:=============~::r.::~==============:======::===:::==*==~===~*=··==·:=~===========~= 
The Observer 
pageS 


The solution is... 
Dan White, a civil engineering graduate student, works on a solution to the Streeter-Phelps Equation. 



Number of criminals on parole and probation increased in 1990 
' 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The number of convicted criminals on parole increased 16.3 percent last year and those placed on probation went up 
5.9 percent to new record totals, the Justice Department said Sunday. 
There were 2.6 million adults on probation at the end of 1990 and 531,407 on parole, said the survey by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. 
The overall tc.tal of 3.2 million represented a 7.5 percent increase from the previous year, the department said. 
The growth in the number of convicted criminals paroled from prison and those placed on probation parallels the growth in the nation's prison• population in the last decade, the department said. 
"Since 1980, prison and jail populations have grown by 128 percent, while probation and parole counts have increased by 139 percent," said Steven Dillingham, the bureau's director. 
The survey did not explain the 
16.3 percent increase in parolees, but University of Chicago criminologist Norvall Morris said it reflects efforts by states to reduce prison overcrowding. 
"More people are being pushed out the other end of 
crowded prisons," he said. Overcrowding in many states has reduced the amount of time inmates serve in prison. 
The increase in people being supervised by parole or probation officers has put a strain on the system's ability to keep track of offenders who are not incarcerated, Morris said. 
"Everyone talks about crowded prisons and there are genuine problems but what they fail to see is probation and parole services are equally overcrowded," he said. In some cities, caseloads for each parole officer reaches 200 adults. "We are making probation and parole mere tokenism." 
Bush considers Saddam overthrow 
WASHINGTON (AP) :-The Bush administration is review­ing proposals to overthrow Iraqi President Saddam Hussein as a way to stem criticisms about the inconclusive end of the Persian Gulf War, according to a published report. 
The Washington Post in Monday's editions quoted un­named Republican sources as saying President Bush is in­creasingly concerned that Democratic lawmakers and presidential candidates will use Saddam's continued hold on power to minimize the gulf vic­tory. 
White House spokesman Doug Davidson refused to comment on the report. 
An interagency committee under the direction of the White House is reviewing proposals that include providing Iraqi rebels with such overt or covert assistance as military training and spare parts or helping to protect a provisional, alterna­tive government, the Post re­ported. 
The Post said there are, how­ever, differing views among of­ficials and participating de­partments about whether any plan to oust Saddam is worth the effort. The main problem, the newspaper said, is that the 
U.S. plan would depend on some degree of U.S. leverage over internal Iraqi politics and some degree of cooperation among Iraqi rebel groups. 
Both are virtually nonexistent, said the Post. 
'GOnZO' Thompson turns to violent art 
ASPEN, Colo. (AP) -"Gonzo" journalist Hunter S. Thompson traded his pen for a paintbrush -as well as firearms and explosives -to create a 12­piece series of artworks including a poster of former FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover riddled with bullets and splashed with red paint. 
Titled "The Director," the poster is among several doc­tored depictions of well-known personalities Thompson has on exhibit at the Aspen Art Gallery, said gallery owner Mary Grasso. 
"The Director" is adorned with gold leaf, splattered with red paint and mounted on a background of barn wood and mirror. Bullet holes are figured prominently on Hoover's head, between his eyes and under his nose. 
"It's very artistic," Grasso said. "He uses paints and a va­riety of guns and explosives." 
She described Thompsoh's representation of arch-conser­vative Barry Goldwater as "the most gruesome thing you've ever seen." 
"He shot out the eyes and mouth," she said. "It's violent; it's scary." 
Other subjects include Ernest Hemingway, Jane Fonda, Brigitte Bardot and Ronald Reagan. Three pieces have sold for nearly $10,000 each, Grasso said. 
Thompson gained fame in the 1960s and 1970s with his irrev­erent reporting style dubbed "gonzo" journalism. He has written books, syndicated newspaper columns and arti­cles that appeared in Holling Stone and other publications. 
If you see news happening, call us at 239-5303 and let us know. The Observer 
I 
----~-------------­
I 
The Observer 

l page 6 
I 





Condom targets young buyers 
SARASOTA, Fla. (AP)-The nation's first youth brand con­dom hits stores next year, tar­geting buyers as young as 14 years old. Critics say the Safe Play Condoms for Young Lovers could encourage teens to have sex. 
"It's almost like putting a loaded gun in a child's hand," said Wendy Flint of the American Parents Association. "It's says to them, 'I might as well do it, it's something I should be doing by this age anyway.~ 
But Barry Miller, vice presi­dent of marketing for Schmid Laboratories, which makes the condoms, said they only target sexually active teens. 
"We're not promoting promiscuity among young peo­ple, but we recognize it takes place -we can't just stick our heads in the sand," Miller said. 
The condoms, billed as the nation's first to specifically target youths, aren't different from the Ramses and Sheik brands .the company also makes. 
What's different about Safe Play is a planned marketing mix aimed at teens -a $3 price tag, compact six-condom package with neon graphics, free condom key chains or rub­off tattoo kits inside and adver­tising on MTV. Miller said a main focus is protection against AIDS. 

"Everything we do is geared toward the sexually active teen -not the teen who is not hav­ing sex," Miller said. "Our mes­sage is: If you do choose to have sex -wear a condom.... It's about saving lives." 
Critics say youth-oriented condoms aren't the answer to pregnancies and the spread of AIDS among teens. 
"Despite all the talk about abstaining, those who do choose to abstain are made to feel like fools because they aren't practicing safe sex," said Gary Bauer, president of the Family Research Council, a conservative Washington, D.C., think tank. 
Schmid introduced Safe Play Condoms for Young Lovers in England last year and already has a 3 percent market share there. The company unveiled plans for the product in the United States just three days before Magic Johnson an­nounced he has the AIDS virus. 
While company marketers hope to capitalize on that good timing, they contend the statis­tics long cried out for a condom aimed at teen-agers. 
A recent study by the federal Centers for Disease Control re­ported that 57 percent of all high school students in the na­tion said they have had sexual intercourse. 
There are about 670 cases of adolescent AIDS, with the num­ber logged annually rising from 36 in 1985 to 160 in 1990. 
There are an estimated 1 mil­lion pregnancies and 2.5 million cases of sexually transmitted diseases occurring among teen­agers every year. 
Safe Play packages warn that condoms aren't absolute pro­tection against AIDS or preg­nancy. A Consumer Reports study found that about one la­tex condom in 140 breaks. 
Schmid, which Miller said targets condom buyers as young as 14, is the second­ranked manufacturer in the na­tion's $350 million condom market. 
Carter-Wallace Inc., which dominates 50 percent of the market with its Trojan brand, has taken recently to advertis­ing its condoms using a comic­strip character. But a company spokeswoman said it doesn't have a youth-oriented condom. 
Indiana inmates with AIDS released 
VALPARAISO, Ind. (AP) ­Some inmates being held for minor offenses have been re­leased from the Porter County Jail because they have AIDS or the HIV virus which causes the deadly disease. 
Porter Superior Court Judges Norman Buls and Mary Harper have confirmed that they have released inmates who were in­fected. None of the inmates had been charged with or convicted of a serious crime, they said. 
"There have been more than a few people in the last few months who have passed through here with AIDS who have been released," said Buls, who added that he could not es­timate their number. 
"They pose a tremendous problem for our system," he said. 
Harper estimated that over the last three to four years, she has had more than 100 AIDS­.or HIV-infected defendants in her court, mostly charged with misdemeanor offenses. 

One reason for the early re­lease is the high cost of medical treatment for those inmates. The judges also said they had concerns for the health and well-being of the offender and the potential health risks to other inmates. 
"On the local level it's even more of a problem because we don't have the money to put to­gether a treatment program, and I'm not sure that's the way to go," Buls said. 
If the inmate cannot afford medical care, the county must pick up the tab, Buls said. 
The Porter County Jail does not have an AIDS treatment program. 
"We're not running a hospital here. We're running a jail," Buls said. 
Individuals convicted of more serious crimes such as rape and murder are sentenced to the state prison system run by the Indiana Department of Correction. Generally, those cases in Porter County are heard by judges other than Buls and Harper. 
Harper said she has serious concerns when she sentences a healthy man to prison because of the possibility of sex among inmates. Homosexual sex acts in the jail, either consensual or forced, happen, Harper said. 
"We tend to be sensitive to people's medical problems overall, but AIDS seems to be a predominant concern," she said. "We really do try to be sensitive to these problems, especially when the offenses with which they're charged are not heinous." 

Rochester school clarifies its CIA ties 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP) -The trustees of a college under fire for ties to the CIA reaffirmed the relationship, but promised to monitor more closely school activities related to the agency. 
The board of Rochester Institute of Technology ac­knowledged responsibility for allowing the relationship to de­velop without sufficient review, but stressed at a meeting Saturday there is "nothing in­herently inconsistent" between the school's academic mission and its CIA association. 
The board stopped short of 
OAS 
continued from page 1 
Ryan Kerrigan, Rosie Riordan, and Kathy Rutkowski. · The format of the conference, according to Certo, "is set up to be competitive, yet also educa­tional, because you are able to meet with the ambassadors of the countries you represent and the OAS staff." 
Despite the educational aspect, Certo stated that com­petitiveness remains strong, because "most institutions are represented by graduate and undergraduate students wbo are being graded on their per­formance and receiving credit." 

accepting a recommendation from a review panel it ap­pointed that all CIA research be suspended pending development of an oversight structure. 
"It's a complete rejection of the panel findings by the same board that expressed its ap­proval and support of the CIA," said Stephen Judd, spokesman for the CIA Off Campus Coalition. 
·"It shows that the trustees are either very naive about their ability to control the CIA, or that they are very much in 
The Notre Dame delegation participated as an extracurric­ular activity and is not receiving credit for the conference. 
Participants served on four sub-committees and one General Committee. Issues that were discussed include human rights, refugee assistance, the U.S.-proposed "Initiative for the Americas," economic inte­gration, the political situation in Haiti, and illicit drug en­forcement in this hemisphere. 
The ND delegation did "exceptionally, especially con­sidering only one delegate other than myself had attended MOAS before, and especially considering we were competing agreement with what the CIA does and don't care to examine a change in policy," Judd said. 
For decades, the CIA has had ties to the university, which specializes in photography and the evolving field of imaging science. Imaging science com­bines photography and elec­tronics. 
In April, a furious debate over the relationship erupted when the school's president, M. Richard Rose, disclosed he was spending a four-month sabbat­ical at CIA headquarters in Langley, Va. 
against students competing for grades," he said. 
Certo has participated in many similar conferences in high school and college, such as Model Congress, Model Indiana State Legislature, Model United Nations in Chicago, and a pre­vious MOAS convention. Certo also won an Outstanding Delegate award at a conference in Chicago last year. 
He is a government/theology major with a concentration in the Hesburgh Program in Public Service, and is active with the ND Speech Team and Iceberg Debates. He plans to attend the Model UN conference in New York this spring and the MOAS 
~--­


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Blow your horn 

Sophomore Jacob Roberts practices for the concert band try-outs. These auditions run through Tuesday. 





Now Open 
• Discounted Bestsellers • Special Orders • • Telephone Orders • Free Gift Wrapping • • Book Mailing Service • Gift Certificates • • Bonus Book Club • 
,__________...._ ___, 
I Exchange this coupon for I 
I I
I 25% OFF I 
I your next purchase at your 1 I Little Professor Book Center 1 I in South Bend I I I
1 Offer good through November 30,1991 1 
I •offer not valid on newspapers, magazines, IL __ ~~ orde~o~i~o~rdi~n~ __ _j 
Ironwood Plaza North (near the new Martin's) Highway 23 at Ironwood South Bend, IN 48637 Telephone: Q19} 277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
@ 

BOOKCENtER 
We help you find books you'11 love.. 
Conference again next fall. · 
I'' I J ,j ~ J I I 1 ,.~ II·.J·J'J•k'•.t.i•l.J·I·# l.~il!J"'"""""""""..."".........,................,..........III!illl~~~~ 
Monday, November 25, 1991 The Observer page 7 
Anti-immigrant party posts gains in Belgium 
BHUSSELS, Belgium (AP),­To do so, it needs a two-thirds Ecologists and anti-immigrant parliamentary majority. rightists posted major gains in Forming such a ml!.jority "is Sunday's eleetions, dealing a going to be a very difficult," strong setback to Prime Martens said. Minister Wilfried Martens' cen­The other big winner was tnr-left coalition government. Wallonia's environmental Ecolo 
With about 70 percent of the party, which forecasts said votes counted, computer fore­would add seven seats to its casts showed the ruling eurrent three. Its counterpart in Christian Democrats and Flanders, Agalev, will retain its Socialists winning 120 of the six seats. 212 parliamentary seats, down The opposition Conservatives from 134 in the previous par­lost two of their 48 seats. liament. 
Thn extrenw right-wing anti­Underscoring the shift away immigrant Vlaams Blok party in from mainstream parties was Flanders, Belgium's Dutch­the rise in Flanders of HOSSEM, speaking northern half. was the libertarian party of Jean­forecast to win 13 seats, a gain Pierre van Hossem, a failed of 11. businessman who was arrested 
"It is an extreme shift to the on fraud charges four days right," Martens said on the BHT before Sunday's voting. tnlevision network. His year-old party lacks a 
The next government is ex­formal platform -the acronym pected to amend the constitu­roughly stands for Hadieal The Observer/ Jon Novak tion to grant more autonomy to Reformers, Fighters and Thirsty anyone?Flanders and Wallonia, Troublemakers for a Just 
Belgium's Freneh-speaking Society -yet is expected to en­A variety of empty beverage cans comprise window decorations for a classroom in Nieuwland Science Hall. southern half. ter parliament with three seats. 

Atlantis lifts off, carries new defense satellite 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. (AP) p.m. EST. The shuttle lit up the "You all certainly earned your 224 miles above Earth is NASA's tiona! unit that was removed -Atlantis pierced the night sky sky for hundreds of miles as it Thanksgiving," launch director sixth and final shuttle flight of last week from the satellite's and roared into orbit Sunday headed eastward over the Bob Sieck told workers at the year. It was only the seventh attached rocket. But program with six astronauts and a mili­Atlantic Ocean and was swal­launch control. time in 44 launches that a managers were confident the tary satellite that will scout for lowed up by the night. An oxygen fuel leak on the shuttle has blasted off in trouble was isolated to that missile launches from a perch It was a spectacular, and launeh platform forced a 13-darkness. eomponent. thousands of miles high. rare, after-hours show. The last minute delay. Three workers Atlantis' twin solid rocket "We were extremely lucky," 
The 1 00-ton spaeeship rum­shuttle departure in darkness tightened a leaky valve, but the boosters dropped empty into said Air Force Lt. Col. Ernie 
bled off its seaside pad at 6:44 was a year ago. job put crews behind in their the ocean two minutes into the Jaskolski, chief engineer for the work to replenish the fuel sup­flight. The shuttle reached orbit satellite booster. "We were able ply. NASA also had to wait for 6 1/2 minutes later on the to demonstrate that if we did
NO professor wins Fulbright grant 
an orbiting spacecraft to pass thrust of three main engines. encounter this problem during Special to The Observer duced by former Senator J. out of the way of the shuttle. Gregory said he noticed an flight that we would still make 
Fred Dallmayr, Notre Dame William Fulbright of Arkansas. unusual flickering on the nose our mission goal." Packey J. Dee professor of gov­Under the Fulbright program, The astronauts were eager to during ascent. "It was a verr Gregory and his crew planned ernment and international approximately 5,000 grants are get going. "Atlantis is ready. interesting light show coming to release the $300 million studies, has reeeived a awarded each year to American We're ready to burn paint," said up," he said. Defense Support Program Fulbright grant for research at students, teachers and scholars Air Force Col. Frederick NASA's first countdown for satellite six hours into the flight. the M.S. University of Baroda in to study, teach and conduet re­Gregory, the shuttle comman­the 10-day military mission The 5,200-pound satellite India, according to the Board of search in more than 130 coun­der. He was referring to the ended abruptly Tuesday, just quickly was to be propelled Foreign Scholarships and the tries around the world. Foreign freshly painted launch pad before fueling, when the steer­22,300 miles above the equator. United States Information nationals also receive grants to tower. ing system of the satellite There, it would join other Ageney. engage in similar activities in Earlier in the day, the launch booster malfunctioned. Defense Support Program craft 
Dallmayr is one of approxi­the U.S. team had feared that strong All that was put behind in alerting the Pentagon to mis­mately 1,500 U.S. grantees who Individuals are selected on wind and low clouds might Sunday with final testing of the sile and rocket launchings as will travel abroad for the 1991-the basis of academic and pro­thwart its second attempt to newly installed guidance unit. well as nuclear detonations. 92 academic years under the fessional qualifications as well send up Atlantis. But the The system passed a critical Fulbright program. as their ability and willingness weather proved perfect for three-hour ealibration and was A large infrared telescope on 
The program was established to share ideas and experiences liftoff, with only a thin patch of cleared for flight. the satellite has 6,000 sensors in 1946 under U.S. with peoples of diverse eul-clouds visible. Engineers still had not identi­to detect heat from missile fied the problem in the naviga-plumes. 
Fans celebrate D.B. Cooper's great crime 
Two decades after the unique ing a brief stop at Seattle­exploit, which a retired FBI Tacoma International Airport, agent calls stupid and almost where the 36 passengers were certainly fatal, Cooper's real released and the four crew identity is still a mystery. members were kept aboard. Nobody knows if he's a pile of Airborne again, Cooper bleached bones in the moun­parachuted into a freezing tains of Washington or the guy rainstorm at 10,000 feet near next door. tiny Ariel in southwestern 
Cooper's crime, in which no­Washington, wearing only a body was h.urt, seems almost business suit and loafers. The quaint in today's violent world. temperature was 7 below zero, And his $200,000 in marked not counting the wind chill fac­money -its value ravaged by tor at the plane's speed of 200 an inflation rate of 337 percent mph. over 20 years -would hardly "It was obviously not well­make him a rich man. thought-out. You don't think his 


Interested in getting involved in the Junior Class Play? Those interested in directing, stage managing or publicity, please contact Sonia Miller X 4 704. Any suggestions welcome. Acting auditions will be held at the beginning of second semester. Watch for si ns. 
The story began Thanksgiving loafers blew off in the wind, for eve, when a man wearing dark instance? It was stupid," said glasses boarded a Northwest­Ralph Himmelsbach, the retired Orient Airlines Boeing 727 at FBI agent who spent nearly a Portland International Airport. decade investigating the crime. He used the name Dan Cooper to purchase his plane ticket. If Cooper didn't freeze to The name became popularized death on his way down, he as D.B. Cooper after a law en­probably died when he hit the forcement official erroneously ground wearing an "extremely referred to him that way. fast" parachute provided by 
authorities in Seattle, said 
Once airborne, "Cooper" Himmelsbach, reached at his handed the stewardess a note home in Redmond, Ore. saying he had a dynamite bomb "And he came down right in his attache case. The man, smack dab in the middle of the who chain-smoked Raleigh fil­woods in really rugged coun­ter-tipped cigarettes and who try," he said. "There are steep, appeared to be in his middle to up and down ravines in really late 40s, demanded $200,000 in heavily wooded country. It was used $20 bills. a bad place to land, and it is 
He collected the money -doubtful we would ever find the provided by the airline -dur-body." 
Business 
Monday, November 25, 1991 

House GOP counterattacks on u.s. economy 

WASHINGTON (AP) -When House Republican Whip Newt Gingrich outlined a year-end tax package that blends capital gains reductions with expanded Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs). congressional Democrats responded pre­dictably. 
"It has no shred of sincerity about it'" House Speaker Thomas Foley said at a week­end breakfast meeting with re­porters. "It's a flat-out public plot ... cooked up by a group of Republicans not to do a thing for the economy, nor help any American." 
With that statement, the con­gressional tax debate of the 1992 election year was officially inaugurated in the waning days of the 1991 session. 
President Bush prefers to wait AP Photo until January to outline his own 
House Minority Whip Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., described a year-end tax economic program. But many 
package Friday which has sparked a congressional tax debate. The House Republicans, nervous 
package blends capital gains reductions with expanded IRA's. about their own re-election prospects, saw political advantage in pressing for pas­sage of their plan in the session expected to end Tuesday or Wednesday. 
Gingrich·said Friday that if the Democrats who control Congress let lawmakers dis­band for the year without en­acting anti-recession legislation, as seems likely, "All their yelling and yapping about the domestic agenda will be ex­posed as pure demagoguery." 
But there was another motive, as well. 
"It will let Republicans say very honestly that the Democrats defeated the only true pro-growth initiative this Congress debated before leav­ing," said Rep. Yin Weber, R-Minn. 
"There's a sense that a sound economy is a lynch pin to the re-election next year of the president, and we as Republi­cans rise or fall with the state of the economy," said Rep. Willis Gradison, R-Ohio. "This initiative is as much seeking political stimulus as it is seeking economic stimulus," he added. 
Democrats reply that the flurry of GOP activity will do lit-tie to distract voters from Bush's seeming confusion about what to do about the economy. 
"The economy can't be ad­dressed until we have the at­tention of the president, and the president denies the problem," said Rep. David Obey, D-Wis. "Until we get his attention, everything his little leaguers do in the House is just window-dressing." 
That didn't stop House Major­ity Whip Richard Gephardt from contending that the GOP plan would require deep cuts in Medicare under the terms of Congress' yen.r-old budget agreement with the White House. 
Oil, auto industries try to avoid em1ss1ons control costs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -There's no dispute that toxic and smog-causing fumes spew out of automobile engines with every fill-up. Unfortunately, there is still no agreement on how to control them. 
Technology isn't the issue; there already are two proven methods for stopping the emis­sions. 
The current debate has pitted the oil industry against the rna­
CLQ!!Ii!D CQUB!!E!! BA 

BA  
ACCT  231  01  0575  BA  
ACCT  231  02  0576  BA  
ACCT  231  03  0577  BA  
ACCT  231  04  0578  BA  
ACCT  232  02  0581  BA  
ACCT  232  03  0582  BA  
ACCT  232  04  0583  BA  
ACCT  232  05  0584  BA  
ACCT  232  06  0585  BA  
ACCT  232  09  0588  BA  
ACCT  232  10  0589  BA  
ACCT  372  01  0593  BIOS  
ACCT  372  02  0594  BIOS  
ACCT  372  04  0596  BIOS  
ACCT  372  05  2810  BIOS  
ACCT  380  02  0598  CAPP  
ACCT  380  03  0599  CAPP  
ACCT  380  04  0600  CAPP  
ACCT  473  01  0601  CAPP  
ACCT  473  02  2812  CAPP  
ACCT  473  03  3809  CAPP  
ACCT  476  01  2814  CAPP  
ACCT  476  02  0602  CE  
ACCT  477  02  0604  CHEM  
ACCT  479  01  0605  CLAS  
AERO  441L  01  0614  CLAS  
AERO  441L  02  0615  CLAS  
AERO  441L  03  3648  CLAS  
AFAM  359  01  3445  COTH  
AFAM  372  01  3048  COTH  
AFAM  389  01  3446  COTH  
AFAM  420  01  3447  COTH  
AFAM  451  01  3368  COTH  
AFAM  454  01  2997  COTH  
AFAM  479  01  3448  CSE  
AMST  326  01  0466  CSE  
AMST  334  01  0465  ECON  
AMST  338  01  4051  ECON  
AMST  390  01  3576  ECON  
AMST  425  01  3579  ECON  
AMST  459  01  3042  ECON  
ANTH  324  01  3434  ECON  
ANTH  328  01  0212  ECON  
ANTH  328A  01  3433  ECON  
ANTH  330  01  0210  ECON  
ANTH  359  01  3436  ECON  
ANTH  365  01  2901  ECON  
ANTH  388  01  3154  ECON  
ANTH  389  01  3438  EE  
ANTH  389A 01  3439  EE  
ANTH  431  01  3442  EE  
ANTH  431A  01  3443  EE  
ANTH  454  01  2912  EE  
ARHI  169  01  0735  EE  
ARHI  403  01  3518  EE  
ARHI  452  01  3210  EE  
ARHI  459  01  2916  ENGL  
ARHI  462  01  3118  ENGL  
ARHI  481  01  3521  ENGL  
ARHI  496  01  3124  ENGL  
ARST  134S 01  0754  ENGL  
ARST  150K 01  3528  ENGL  
ARST  232S  01  0761  ENGL  
ARST  242S  01  0762  ENGL  
ARST  246S  01  2922  ENGL  
ARST  292S  01  0766  ENGL  
ARST  310S  01  0768  ENGL  
ARST  326S  01  0769  ENGL  
BA  230  01  0834  ENGL  
BA 230 02 0835 ENGL 325 01 3856 GOVT 343T 06 3591 MBA 682 03 0351 PSY 425 01 1256 THEO 243 01 2657 


jor automakers. Neither wants to pay for any new controls to stop the emissions. 
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), spurred on by last year's clean air law, is ex­pected to decide soon on how to capture the gasoline fumes. These fumes are a major con­tributor to smog in hundreds of urban communities. 
Several states, including Cali­fornia, and a half dozen large cities already require gasoline pumps to be equipped with spe­cia! devices, called "Stage II" controls, which capture the fumes. 
230 06  0718  ENGL  328A  01  
362 01  0838  ENGL  333  01  
363 02  0841  ENGL  340  01  
363 04  0843  ENGL  J40T  01  
391 01  0264  ENGL  340T  02  
391 02  2736  ENGL  340T  03  
391 03  2735  ENGL  340T  04  
464 01  2816  ENGL  366  01  
465 01  3799  ENGL  394A  01  
490 01  0845  ENGL  403  01  
490 04  0848  ENGL  413A  01  
490 05  0849  ENGL  415E  01  
490 06  0850  ENGL  415Z  01  
341L 01  0865  ENGL  416A  01  
407L 01  0876  ENGL  416B  01  
411L 01  0287  ENGL  416C  01  
412L 02  0882  ENGL  422  01  
243 01  0969  ENGL  423B  01  
253 01  1629  ENGL  426B  01  
316 01  0970  ENGL  428B  01  
331 01  2818  ENGL  434  01  
361 01  0343  ENGL  440A  01  
375 01  0971  ENGL  451A  01  
388 01  3431  ENGL  453  01  
470 01  0992  ENGL  463Z  01  
334L 02  1061  ENGL  471  01  
360 01  3233  ENGL  472Z  01  
423 01  3203  ENGL  473  01  
427 01  3427  ENGL  479  01  
442 01  1084  ENGL  483  01  
201 01  2959  ENGL  484  01  
204 01  2961  ENGL  490Z  01  
205 02  3972  ENGL  493A 01  
410 01  3103  ENGL  493C 01  
416 01  3977  ENGL  497B  01  
435 01  3978  ENGL  512  01  
231 01  3952  ENGL  544  01  
322L 01  3962  ENGL  562  01  
302 02  1163  ENGL  585  01  
303 01  1095  ENGL  592B  01  
315 01  3141  FIN  231  01  
330 01  3746  FIN  231  02  
350 01  1164  FIN  231  03  
350 02  3747  FIN  231  06  
380 01  2969  FIN  231  09  
417 01  2905  FIN  360  03  
421 01  1168  FIN  360  04  
451 01  1363  FIN  361  01  
471 01  2971  FIN  361  02  
498 01  1173  FIN  361  05  
242 02  1191  FIN  361  06  
242L 01  1192  FIN  361  P7  
340L 02  1200  FIN  370  01  
354 02  1205  FIN  370  02  
361 01  2825  FIN  370  03  
361L 02  2829  FIN  473  01  
361L 04  2833  FIN  475  01  
361L OS  2865  FIN  476  01  
204 01  3850  FIN  478  01  
300A 01  3851  GE  313  01  
300B 01  3852  GE  410  01  
300C 01  3853  GOVT  340  01  
301C 01  3180  GOVT  340  02  
312 01  1361  GOVT  342  01  
314B 01  4022  GQVT  342T  01  
315C 01  3854  GOVT  342T  02  
317B 01  1971  GOVT  343  01  
317C 01  3204  GOVT  343  02  
3188 01  3855  GOVT  343T  02  
3198 01  1364  GOVT  343T  03  
321B 01  0452  GOVT  343T  04  

Environmentalists say these devices are not enough. They want the pump nozzle devices to be mandatory in more states and a filtering system to be in­stalled on automobiles. Both are needed, they say, because it would take a decade or more for the filtering system to have a widespread impact because of the slow turnover of the auto­mobile fleet. 
The auto industry, battling hard economic times, is fighting hard against installing yet another pollution control device in new cars. It says the oil in­dustry ought to pay this time by capturing the releases at the pump. 
The controls at service sta­
0012 GOVT 343T 07 3592 MGT 231 01 1856 PSY 462 01 3857 GOvT 343T 08 3593 MGT 231 05 1861 PSY 475 01 1369 GOVT 407 01 0677 MGT 240 02 1864 RLST 213 15 3858 GOVT 408 01 3595 MGT 240 OJ 1865 RLST 213 17 3859 GOVT 413 01 1518 MGT 240 05 1867 RLST 235 19 3860 GOVT 422 01 3602 MGT 472 01 1873 RLST 240 21 3861 GOVT 424 01 2859 MGT 482 01 1875 RLST 240 23 3865 GOVT 427 01 3594 MGT 488 01 3801 RLST 240 25 3866 GOVT 438 01 3987 MI 309 01 2995 RLST 251 33 3867 GOVT 446 01 3605 MI 333 01 3810 RLST 261 35 3869 GOVT 449 01 2988 MI 398 01 3392 RLST 261 37 4002 GOVT 459 01 2906 MI 437 01 3944 RLST 312 43 3871 GOVT 485 01 3598 MI 438 01 3264 RLST 312 45 3872 GSC 204 01 4024 MSA 545 01 3803 RLST 380 49 3873 GSC 219 01 3761 MSCI 212 02 1980 ROFR 102 02 3874 GSC 234 01 3148 MUS 220 oi 2016 ROFR 103 03 3876 GSC 242 01 3773 MUS 220 02 2017 ROFR 435 01 3877 GSC 346 01 3028 MUS 220 03 2018 ROFR 450 01 3256 GSC 360 01 3764 MUS 222 01 0105 ROFR 482 01 3878 GSC 403 01 3771 MUS 224 01 3425 ROIT 102 02 3880 GSC 423B 01 3766 MUS 225 01 0426 ROSP 102 02 1377 GSC 425 01 3760 MUS 226 01 2024 ROSP 102 03 3882 GS~ 446 01 3772 MUS 234 01 2028 ROSP 102 06 3883 GSC 472S 01 3265 PHIL 201 06 2124 ROSP 102A 01 3884 GSC 482 01 3763 PHIL 201 07 0006 ROSP 103 02 3885 GSC 493A 01 3769 PHIL 201 09 1908 ROSP 103 03 3886 GSC 493C 01 2980 PHIL 203 01 2126 ROSP 103 04 3887 HIST 116T 01 3450 PHIL 222 01 2130 ROSP 103 06 3888 HIST 208 01 3491 PHIL 225 01 3145 ROSP 103 07 3044 HIST 225 01 0135 PHIL 226 01 0738 ROSP 201 02 3889 HIST 309 01 2994 PHIL 239 01 3714 ROSP 231 01 3890 HIST 342A 01 3480 PHIL 240 01 3715 ROSP 319 01 3891 HIST 348A 01 3482 PHIL 241 01 4026 ROSP 329 01 2979 HIST 414A 01 3476 PHIL 241 02 4027 ROSP 415 01 0705 HIST 454 01 2996 PHIL 242 01 3716 ROSP 499 01 2719 HIST 466A 01 3474 PHIL 244 01 0318 soc 202 01 3895 HIST 473 01 3399 PHIL 244 02 0114 soc 214 01 3897 liPS 446 01 3941 PHIL 244 03 3717 soc 220 01 3899 liPS 475 01 3398 PHIL 245 01 3012 soc 242 01 3900 liPS 515E 01 3950 PHIL 246 01 2135 soc 242 02 1404 liPS 559 01 3932 PHIL 246 02 2136 soc 300 01 1405 liPS 565 01 2903 PHIL 246 03 2137 soc 303 01 1406 liPS 586 01 3938 PHIL 246 04 0854 soc 310 01 1408 !IPS 664 01 3377 PHIL 246 05 3718 soc 324 01 H10 LAW 605 01 1659 PHIL 248 01 3719 soc 346 01 1419 LAW 629B 01 3921 PH:J:L 257 01 3720 soc 373 01 1421 LAW 631F 01 1670 PHIL 261 01 2139 soc 411 01 1424 LAW 631G 01 1671 PHIL 261 02 2140 soc 419 01 1425 LAW 695 01 1688 PHIL 263 01 3721 soc 420 01 1429 LAW 695 03 1690 PHIL 264 01 0317 soc 421 01 1430 LAW 695 05 1692 PHIL 265 01 0030 soc 426 01 3923 LLRO 331 01 J51J PHIL 265 02 3722 soc 451 01 1431 MARK 231 01 1694 PHIL 265 03 3723 STV 204 01 1432 MARK 231 02 1695 PHIL 268 01 2857 STV 206 01 1433 MARK 231 OJ 1696 PHIL 402 01 1531 STV 225 01 1439 MARK 231 06 1700 PHIL 572 01 3735 STV 245 01 1440 MARK 374 01 3003 PHIL 686 01 3743 STV 263 01 2853 MARK 381 01 1704 PHYS 210 01 3793 STV 303 01 1442 MARK 382 01 1705 PHYS 221L 02 3794 STV 399 01 1921 MARK 484 01 1706 PHYS 222 02 2195 STV 453 01 3043 MARK 492 01 3007 PHYS 222L 02 2197 STV 487 01 1505 MARX 495 01 3312 PHYS 222L 04 2198 THEO 100 11 0032 MATH 336 02 0228 PHYS 309 01 3200 THEO 200 01 1507 MBA 623 01 1788 PLS 462 05 2320 THEO 200 11 0380 MBA 624 01 1805 PLS 482 01 2322 THEO 227 02 0379 MBA 625 01 2852 PSY 211 01 2328 THEO 234 01 1508 MBA 627 01 1789 PSY 342 01 2332 THEO 235 01 0382 MBA 628 01 l790 PSY 342 OJ 0167 THEO 235 02 3587 MBA 629 02 1792 PSY 342L 01 2333 THEO 237 01 3588 MBA 631 01 1794 PSY 373 01 2339 THEO 241 01 3589 MBA 646 01 1801 PSY 396A 01 3151 THEO 241 02 
tions "represent a more timely, efficient and less expensive method of meeting the nation's clean air goals," argues Thomas Hanna, president of the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association. 
Cost estimates for the so-called "on-board vapor recov­ery canisters" have ranged from $19, according to the EPA, to as much as $40 per car, according to the automakers. 
0157 THEO 244 01 3835 3608 THEO 250 01 3291 9515 THEO 251 01 0053 9517 THEO 251 02 0052 9519 THEO 254 01 0190 9521 THEO 256 01 3836 9523 THEO 260 01 3837 9525 THEO 260 02 3839 9533 THEO 262 01 0189 9535 THEO 264 01 3030 9537 THEO 265 01 2661 9543 THEO 281 01 3059 9545 THEO 396 01 2138 9549 THEO 400 01 2143 1897 THEO 426 01 3293 1907 THEO 433 01 0186 3506 THEO 442 01 2150 3505 THEO 455B 01 0185 3515 THEO 5078 01 3032 2020 1945 1946 1949 3502 1960 1959 

COURSES THA~ WILL 1958 1956 1955 1963 04 0596
1385 02 06041395 01 29971394 01 34483495 01 04661393 01 04652582 01 31543538 01 07620333 01 07683537 01 28163536 
ECON 01 2969
2583 
ENGL 01 1971
3099 
ENGL 01 385~
3539 
ENGL 01 3888
3544 FIN 01 14043027 FIN 03 14330328 FIN 01 14392908 
GOVT 02 3587
3340 
GOVT 04 3589
3542 
GOVT 01 3987
3545 
GOVT 01 3605
3553 HIST 01 34743547 
MBA 01 1788
3019 
MBA 01 1789
2953 
MBA 01 1790
3146 
MBA 02 1792
3013 
MBA 01 1794
3562 
MBA 01 1801
3563 
MGT 01 3801
3565 MI 01 33923566 PHIL 02 01143568 PHIL 01 30122729 PHIL 01 37192646 PHIL 01 28570198 
PSY 01 2332
0015 
ROSP 03 1946
1829 
soc 01 0328
2653 
THEO 02 3834
1820 
THEO 01 3059
0193 3833 3834 

Viewpoint 
Monday, November 25, 1991 
The ObseO{er---­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution_ The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor·in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, Is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND should consider student input 
New lyrics would 
Dear Editor: Our concern is that while stu­University on a regular basis We, the Sophomore Class dents are expected to obey throughout the school year to Couneil, feel compelled to ad­these behavioral standards, we present the ideas and opinion of 
degrade fight song 
dress the lack of student input have not been involved in defin­the student body and to have a in past du Lac revisions. We ing them. Notre Dame is a role in the revision process. 
Dear Editor: future rather than trying to 
deeply regret the breakdown of community with a strong belief The second part of the pro­change the past for the sake of clear communication between in the integrity and dignity of all posal is a continuation of cam­The letter by Kathleen Quinn the present. University Administration and people." It is essential to the pus-wide forms with University of Siegfried Hall, printed in the Student Body Representatives maintenance of the Notre Dame officers and student represen­Letters to the Editor section of I am constantly amazed at which has prevented significant community that the student tatives to du Lac on hand to the November 21 Observer, our futile and silly attempts to 
outlined her proposal for a elevate women and (other ?)
student representation in the du body's integrity and dignity not answer questions and address newer, fairer, more "politically minorities by giving them spe­Lac revision process. be dismissed lightly. concerns voiced by the student correct" version of the Notre cial treatment. Don't give meWe strongly believe that stu­The concern we feel stems not body. We feel this proposal Dame Victory March. this "Year of Women" stuff. It isdent input is necessary in any only from the lack of student would be an effective measure degrading and demeaning to beaction taken concerning student representation in du Lac revi­to better communications and 
This proposal is, singled out from the rest of
life. Student input not only sions but also from the absence improve relations between the notwithstanding its absolute humanity as if I am not a per­encourages student body of an ongoing dialogue between Administration and students. 
absurdity, detrimental to the son but a woman. support for and adherence to student representatives and cause of women's equality. 

University decisions but also  University Administration about  Notre Dame is a community, a  Politically correct language is  
facilitates  a  better student  the behavioral expectations of  family of people brought to­ It is exactly this sort of re­ an absolute detriment to an  
/Administration relationship.  the student body.  In order to be  gether in a quest for scholar­ sponse to traditional culture  intelligent society capable of  
Students who gain skills in a  Notre Dame, students must also  ship by similar faith and ideals.  that accomplishes the opposite  sensing tradition and moving  
cooperative government with  have a role in defining Notre  The participation of the entire  of that which it attempts to  forward with some sense of  
the University Administration emerge as responsible citizens of state, national, even world political processes. In your letter prefacing du Lac, your definition of the Administration's role in student  Dame. To address our concerns we propose a two-prong solution. The first part calls for a joint Hall Presidents' Council/Student Senate Committee on du Lac to  Notre Dame community is essential to further define what Notre Dame is and what is ex­pected of its students. We ap­preciate your time taken in considering our proposal and look forward to further discus­ correct. We cannot deny that from ancient times to the pre­sent day our world has been a male-dominate one; but by at­tempting to change the litera­ture O"r other expressions of that culture we do not change this "domination": we only suc­ depth. Changing "history" to "herstory" and changing "Rally sons of Notre Dame" to "Rally ones of Notre Dame" -is a ridiculous attempt to do something that is up to the  
life is to " ... encourage, chal­ be established to meet with the  sion with you in the near future.  ceed in making ourselves look  individual to attain. We are  ....  
lenge  and  Academic Council, the Campus  The Sophomore  insecure and petty.  incapable of demanding respect  
sometimes...discipline those  Life Council, and respective  Class Council  as a function of our color or  
who fail to be Notre Dame."  administrative officers of the  Nov. 11, 1991  We should do everything we  sex.  
can in the present times to  
assert our equality, but that  Political correctness is not,  
should not be at the expense of  and should not be, retroactive.  
the rich traditions of the past.  Although this is just as petty  
as the letter to which I am re­ 
As a classics and English ma­ sponding, the author of the let­ 
jor, I am exposed daily to the  ter could have at least changed  
literature of the ancients, none  the seven  "her"s in the March  
of which would I dare to impose  as well as the two male refer­ 
my sensibilities on as a feminist  ences if she were trying to be at  
reader. Not only would this  all consistently "equal."  
degrade the classics, it de­ 
means my position as a sensible  Erin O'Neill  
reader capable of seeing the  Lewla Hall  
past and looking forward to the  Nov. 21, 1991  
DOONESIURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE Of THE DAY  


Accent
page 10 Monday, November 25, 1991 

The Observer I Paige Smoron (Above) A stegosaurus growls threateningly at onlookers at the Studebaker Museum. (Below right) Younger visitors reenact their version of the Mesozoic Era. "Dinosaurs Alive" will be on exhibit until Feb. 23, 1992. 

of the 

LOST 
Dinosaurs come alive at the Studebaker Museum 
By PAIGE SMORON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
"No! NOOOOOO!" 

A little girl screan:s as her daddy lifts 
her up for a closer look. An impressive 
Stegosaurus from the Jurassic period 
looms menacingly above her, swinging 
its tail spikes convincingly. It emits a 
thunderous· roar. 

"Hooooooooome," she wails as her 
daddy carries her off to visit with the 
less threatening Baby Parasaurolophus 
down the hall. 

The "Dinosaurs Alive!" exhibit at the 
Studebaker National Museum has 
recreated the wonder, the majesty, and , yes-the terror-of the Mesozoic Era. 
"Dinamation," the first leg of the tour, 
features half-scale dinosaurs. Here, 
viewers may enjoy a glimpse of the 
Ankylosaurus in a simulated habitat, 
and learn that its nickname was the 
"Stiffened Lizard." Presumably, only his 
closest Late Cretaceous reptilian friends 
could call him that. 

Dinophiles of all ages will delight in 
this rare chance to see an Apatosaurus (the "Deceptive Lizard"), an Allosaurus (the "Different Lizard"), and a Pachycephalosaurus (the "Thick-Headed Lizard") mingling over the Parasaurolophus egg nest. 
Actually animated robots made of steel framework, covered with molded frame and silicon skins, these dinosaurs move and sound like prehistoric bullies. Toddlers of the faint-hearted variety prefer advancing right to the Paleontology Corner. 
In this hands-on learning area, visitors can muse on the age-old question "What killed the dinosaurs?" Don't expect any answers, however. "We don't know what killed the dinosaurs," admits the exhibit. "What do you think killed the dinosaurs?" it concludes. 
"Come look at the fossils, Jason," implores one young mother as Jason heedlessly wanders over to handle a considerably large Ty~annosaurus Rex tooth. Next, he bangs on the duck-billed dinosaur hoof bone with an informational plaque. 
Most urchins head directly for the "Dino Theater" and its plethora of plush puppets. There, they engage in their own interpretation of the day-to-day life of a dinosaur. Mostly, this consists of consuming each other, beating each other, and thrashing each other about in general. 
A less popular but highly educational exhibit is the prehistoric timeline. Here is a look at the demise of the hulking creatures, at times quite lighthearted. 65 million years ago: "Huge extinction-dinosaurs, ammonites, and others bite the dust!" 
One area is christened "Name Your Own Dinosaur." Interested parties may mix and match prefixes and suffixes to create their own imaginary dinosaur. Participants come up with "Dinodermasaurus," meaning "Terrible Skin Reptile," and "Apatophilischian," which translates loosely into "Deceptive Loving Hip." 
Those who approach the "Rub-a-Dino" exhibit with inflated expectations are invariably disappointed. It has nothing to do. with stroking actual reptilian skin, as some mistakenly believe; it is only an area designated for tracing pictures of dinosaurs with crayons. 
A definite highlight of the tour is a stop in the "Dino Staur" for any souvenir needs. Potential library additions are "A Family of Dinosaurs," ready to be colored, and a historically accurate collection of "Playful Dinosaur Stickers," depicting brightly colored dinosaurs riding Big Wheels, eating ice cream, and taking bubble baths. 
Other reasonably priced items include the "Primal Nite Dinosaur Night Light," "Gooey Dino-Soap," "Collect-a-Saurus," "Gro-Beast," and many inflatable goods. 
This is not, however, an exhibit without a moral. A section entitled "What is extinction?" asks rhetorically, "Who could be extinct next?" It answers itself, "HUMANS HUMANS HUMANS." 
The ominous message seems to be over the heads of the younger crowd. One little boy, exkausted from his journey back in time, rests his head on his dad's shoulder and notes, "It was a good puppet show." 
------~--­

Accent 
Monday, November 25, 1991 page 11 
Who shot JFK? 
Gordon presents a moment-by-moment analysis of the events leading up to Kennedy's assassination 

By TONY POPANZ Gordon will also universities (NCADP), the mission of Holy Cross Accent Writer review the history of most often seek Sister Maura Brannick, and the political assassina­his expert Alzheimer's Association. 
Imagine being in Dallas, Texas, on tion in America, presentations. "I think a lot of people got involved November 22, 1963. examine medical Since this is a with public service because of what JFK evidence from university did in his term in office. Many in my 
Waiting in anticipation for President Kennedy's autopsy, lecture, he generation responded to that, and today, John F. Kennedy's arrival, your heart summarize theories expects the it's good to see Notre Dame and Saint races as Air Force One taxis to the. and explanations of presentation to Mary's students involved with public tarmac. The president steps out and what took place, and take some time, service also," commented Gordon, "I greets his avid spectators with heartfelt show the taped approximately enjoy giving my talent to benefit the warmth. reaction of witnesses four hours. underserved," he added. 
You follow him as. he travels via to the assassination. Gordon said motorcade toward Dealey Plaza. Upon In the last couple that he usually Gordon founded the Society Bank reaching the site, the sound of of months there have finds his most sponsored Million Dollar Hole-in-One firecrackers ring in the distance. been striking, new captivated au­Contest. Six golf courses, including that 
The moments tick by ever so slowly as developments in the diences at of Notre Dame's, partake in this premier confusion turns into hysteria. Kennedy case, universities. A event. All proceeds from the contest go Pandemonium rages like a wildfire from according to Gordon. substantial to Holy Cross Care Services, which helps tho president's Lincoln Continental However, he said he portion of the the elderly and mentally retarded. through the dazed masses. A sense of will not specify these presentation Gordon said that he is very proud of dnmd gradually overtakes you. Shock ... details until his will be an his involvement with Chapin Street Disbelief... The president has been shot! lecture. informal Clinic, a free clinic for the poor. Those 
As the motorcade speeds away, you question and who do not have adequate funds for wonder who could do such a thing. Photo enlargements answer session. medical costs still need medical Witnessing the senseless execution of used by Gordon make it possible to give "If there are students out there asking attention, said Gordon. Chapin Street one whom you admired greatly, the a moment-by-moment analysis of the questions, I will stick around," said Clinic is a humanitarian institution memory will always remain with you. sequence of assassination events. James Gordon. which serves the basic needs of the less The day will live in infamy forever. Ward, a Notre Dame assistant professor fortunate. 
of accountancy, produced these This regard Gordon possesses for "I see many Notre Dame and Saint 
Maybe you are too young to have photographs for the lecture. questioning and argument exemplifies Mary's students volunteering for the experienced that ill-fated day. Perhaps "I single out James Ward's interest in his interest in teaching. In 1979, he Chapin Street and Holy Cross charities. the next closest thing to experiencing the Kennedy assassination," stated taught history courses in American This, in my opinion, is what makes this grim sequence first hand would be Gordon. "I think if students have an political assassinations at Holyoke these two student bodies so special," attending John Gordon's lecture, "The interest, James Ward is the person on­Community College and Western New said Gordon. Men Who Killed Kennedy." campus who has the expertise." England College. 
Gordon, an expert on political Currently, he proposes a writing The Annual Sports Memorabilia assassinations, will be at Carroll Hall at Concerning the content of his lectures, course for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Auction raises funds for the National Saint Mary's at 7 p.m. tonight to give a Gordon explained, "these lectures are centered on political assassination. Such Council on Alcohol and Drug Prevention chronological and detailed overview of never the same. Over time, I have added a class would stimulate deductive and (NCADP), one of Gordon's favorite the whole occurrence. pictures and centered on different facets informative writing in a social studies charities. The NCADP helps alcoholics 
of the event. There are always new context, he said. and other drug abusers reform their 
Gordon, who issues to With the president of Western New habits, while at the same time inter­received his include." England College, Gordon established a vening with their families to prevent Doctorate in Because he research center for political assassina­alcohol and drug abuse in the future. Education also holds a tions. He has also been on two Gordon said that the highlight of the from Indiana full-time job commissions to move the Robert fundraiser is the auctioning of a football University in with Society Kennedy files from the Los Angeles autographed by seven Notre Dame Bloomington, Bank in South Police Department into the California Heisman Trophy winners. Such an has been a Bend as a State Archives and to later release said article has been sold for between 1,200 consultant for trust officer, rues to public access. and 1,500 dollars. ABC's "20/20," Gordon tends By participating in these projects as Despite all of the things he is involved N B C ' s to give the well as giving lectures, Gordon shares in, Gordon said that his most proud "Kennedy," majority of his his interest with the rest of the world. accomplishment continues to be his get­and PBS's presentations "JFK's assassination is what crystalized ting married and raising a family. "Nova." An in the area. my interest in history," commented accomplished This is his Gordon. There are three things that he wishes historian specializing in political sixth time lecturing at Saint Mary's. to see happen in the near future: see the assassination, the culmination of his "As long as the students (at Notre A historian, a teacher, and a trust Kennedy assassination controversy fi­many years of painstaking research has Dame and Saint Mary's) continue to ask officer, Gordon has another interesting nally solved, see I.U. win a Rose Bowl produced this detailed presentation. for me, I will always give my lectures the facet to his personality-he is also a and see the Red Sox win the Series. With 
Using film footage beginning from Monday before Thanksgiving break, prevalent humanitarian. the exception of his wishes for the Red JFK's exit from the plane and finishing which coincides with the anniversary of The lecture given at Saint Mary's will Sox, it seems that those concerning I.U. at the aftermath, Gordon will give a JFK's funeral," said Gordon. raise 3,000 dollars for his favorite and the Kennedy case are altogether visual record of the tragedy. Gordon's lectures range from thirty charities, including the National Council extremely farfetched. 
~utes ~ four hQUt;S. qvic grp~ps apd on Alc,ohol..a~d Drug Prevention . J. ' . , .. ' 
'"I" •
I • J • ,-'. ~ ~ I I )_ 


'I think a lot of people got involved with public service because of what JFK did in his term of office. Many in my generation responded to that, and today, it's good to see Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students involved with public service also.' 

The United States has said it cials, including the country's Helga Watkins, a first year graduate student in painting, diligently rolls ink to create a mono-type print. is considering retaliatory action leader, Col. Moammar Gadhafi. Such activities take place in Riley Hall's printmaking studio. . 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
1990 INFINITI M30 SPORTS SPRING BREAK '92! SUPER­COUPE. BURGUNDY W/GAAY SPECIAL PRICES if you make ATTENTION: ANYONE WHO
NOTICES I I WANTED 1. LEATHER. LOADED reservations before Christmas! WANTS TO HAVE AN INCREDIBLE W/EVERYTHING. 21,000 MILES. Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas from THANKSGIVING IN HAWAII $18,500 277-3784. only $399 including roundtrip I have 2 roundtrip tix to Honolulu ACNE 
TYPING AVAILABLE airfare, great hotel, and much more! that I need to sell. I will cut 
287-4082 PART-TIME CLEAN-UP HELP CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED THE BEST AVAILABLEI1-800-331-someone a major dealll I'm selling A NASTY FOUR NEEDED AT BRIDGET'S $6/HA. 89 !1;1ERCEDES $200, 3136. them for about 60% off. but I'm APPLY WED. THRU SAT. AT 86 VW$50 willing to negotiate. Call me please LEITER WORD 
Buy and Sell used books 7:30PM OR CALL 271-0373. 87 MERCEDES $100, Philadelphia -S. Jersey Club and make me an otter!!! x3457 
If you had started
Pandora 's Books-newbooks and NO MINORS. 65 MUSTANG $50. the NY Times tool! Choose from thousands starting CHRISTMAS BUS ZAHM: ALWAYS LOSERS. 
on clear Care Acne 
corner of ND ave and Howard $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording 233-2342/1 0-5:30 everyday NEED RIDE TO NY/NJ/LI AREA!! Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Leaving: Friday 12120 LOOK OUT BELOW!!!!!! 
Treatment 30 days
Will share expenses and help drive. Copyright Returning: Monday 1/13 Call Emily x4032 #IN11KJC. Cost: $140 roundtrip It's the FLANNER TOWER BUNGI 
ago, you would be
ALTERATIONS AND JUMPING TEAM! DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL. N.D. YEARBOOKS 1918, 1920, Sign ups at Lafortune info. desk. Coming soon... 
clear of Acne today
259-8684. FREE SPRING BREAK TRIPS 1925. ROCKNE-MINT to students or student organizations CONDITION $75.00 EACH. IF Monday 11/25@ 3:00-5:00 
For free samples, 
promoting our Spring Break INTERESTED CALL 291-9025. 7:00-9:00 WOAD PROCESSING Packages. Good Pay & Fun. Call B.P. Defense, 
information on hoY\ 
256-6657 CMI. 1-800-423-5264. Any questions contact Mike Folgia Congradulations Champsi Thanks @ 273-2103. tor making our first semester a great 
Clear Care's topical 
TICKETS one. You got us hot at every ••cHRISTMAS BREAK Bus·· ATTENTION JUNIORS!! I practice and game. Amy, Tracy, and 
medications work, 
For anyone going to Long Island, We need pictures for the JPW slide Carrie-we will sincerely miss your NYC, or NJI Sate travel, VCR, and show. Please bring horizontal selling a one way ticket from How many Zahm lgnets does it take sweet asses. To the rest of you $110 round trip. Sign up in pictures (no alcohol showing) to south bend to rochester on tue to win a playoff game? nymphos, get ready tor another LaFortune(O'Hara room) on WED. Student Activities or your dorm evening, nov.26. call x4362 or 284-Don't know, We'll tell you when it drive(get your minds out of the 
Call our Skin Care 
12/4, 8-10PM!! President as soon as possible! 5429. price is negotiable. · happens. gutter). Don't forget to put your name and Thanks again, 
Information Line 
address on each picture so they can Jeff & J.C. be returned. THE NEXT TIME, DON'T HANG The Sex Maniacs 
(800) 435-3533 

PERSONAL
NOTRE DAME VIDEO DEADLINE: Dec. 2nd UP, TALK-THIS MEANS YOU!!! OPEN DURING THANKSGIVING WHAT????? If you like pina coladas 
WEDNESDAY 4-11 GETAWAY WEEKEND and gettin' caught in the rain THURSDAY 4-7 $40,000/yr! READ BOOKS and TV KOONTZ HOUSE Jude, patron of the impossible, pray and your not into yoga, if you have FRIDAY 4-7 Scripts. Fill out simple BED 'N BREAKFAST torus. half a brain .... SATURDAY 4-7 "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, 23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE SUNDAY 4-11 relaxing at home, beach, vacations. DAME Anthony, Glory of the O.F.M. and Call MATT TAYLOR because its his SUNSHINE 
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 586-7090 restorer of lost things, I have not 21st birthday tomorrow x3414 BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE Hour Recording 801-379-2925 forgotten you, pray for us! 
CAB CO.

Copyright #IN11 KEB. stronger than burt HEY,HEY, PAULA, HI HONEY Have you reached your peak? Is it true that orgasms better when you SPRING BREAK REPS NEEDED INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. are 30?
LOST/FOUND 299-0202 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me hey nit HAPPY BIRTHDAY from 
EARN CASH AND FREE TRAVEL tor a quote 9:30-6:00, your loving co-workers at UHS LOST: NIKON 6006 CAMERA SELLING TRIPS TO JAMAICA, 289-1993. Office near campus. Lowest rates in town WITH 28-85 MM LENS . ALSO, CANCUN, AND FL.ORIDA. CALL LOST A DARK GREEN STS @ 1-800-648-4849. 00 THE COPY SHOP 00 NOTRE DAME VIDEO NO or SMC PATAGONIA JACKET WITH GRAY --TOM WESTRICK--LaFortune Student Center OPEN DURING THANIEGIVING LINING. BOTH LOST THE --TOM WESTRICK--Copies as low as 3¢ in volume! WEDNESDAY 4-11 to airport or train WEEKEND OF THE TENNESSEE I need ride to Iowa City or vicinity --TOM WESTAICK--THURSDAY 4-7 GAME. REWARD. CALL KEVIN for Thanksgiving! Call Jen x2198. You weenie in INSBRUCK FRIDAY 4-7 $7 for 1 person, or JOHNSTON 1-800-727-0029. Angie, Eric, Dave, and BIG J. Rock SATURDAY 4-7 
NEED RIDE TO LONG ISLAND wish you well in that land of easy SPRING BREAK IN CANCUN! SUNDAY 4-11 $4/each 2-4 persons LOST: DIAMOND AND RUBY FOR THANKSGIVING! CALL "A". REPRESENTATIVES WANTED. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE TENNIS BRACELET TUES. NIGHT KATE X4888 May your skiing ever be in those COLLEGE TOURS, THE NATION'S NO/SMCAFTER 7 ON NORTH QUAD. IF wonderful mounds of Austrian LARGEST AND MOST FOUND CALL BROOKE @ 283-mountains. SUCCESSFUL SPRING BREAK to Niles Amtrack 4845 TOUR OPERATOR NEEDS
FOR RENT $12.00
--TOM ENTHUSIASTIC CAMPUS LOST: BROWN WALLET WESTRICK TOM REPRESENTATIVES. EARN FREE PROBABLY BY O'SHAG OR WESTRICK TOM TRIPS AND CASH! WE PROVIDE 
r Go, 
INTRODUCTORY OFFER LAFORTUNE. IF FOUND CALL BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WESTRICK--EVERYTHING YOU NEED. CALL 289-0119. REWARD IF FOUND! 219-291-7153 1-800-395-4896 FOR MORE 
50 cents off all fares with
INFORMATION. LOST: YELLOW AND BLACK BEDROOM IN A HOME $200/MO. ADOPTION: Proud parents of one day advance reservatior SWATCH SOMEWHERE USE OF ALL UTILITIES, adopted toddler eager to find Guitarist/Songwriter looking for lead 
Home! 
BETWEEN ACC AND PEACE LAUNDRY, ETC. newborn to join our family. Our guitarist and bassist to form an MEMORIAL IF FOUND PLEASE CALL PAUL 232-2794. warm and stable home offers original folk-rock band. Call Nick CALL 283-1340. security, lots of adoring relatives x2348 
• Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. and a life full of love. Please call Furnished. $200. /Mon. Barb and Dave collect 513-751-Hey Collrefllll wrote ya, but 
EARN Szooo.


FOR•••WEEKENDSIHOLIDAYS 
$150. Dept. Call277-8866 7-077. typically I lost the letter!! Will try 
+

BIRTHDAYS/WmDINGS 
FREE SPRING BREAK TRI
Tues/Sat. 10am/5pm. again soon! Couldn't miss ya more. 
Lost: One gold Clauddaugh charm K El 
MOM'S HOME COOKING 
North America's #1 Student Tour
and one gold necklace. BB ST. TIX CHEAP!! 
Council Tr1!V<I offm domestic student 
Operator seeking motivat-:J

If you have found it please contact 3 BDAM. HOUSE $390 + CALL LISA 4862 SPRING BREAK '921 THE 
~irf"'es ;·n S<lectecj m~r1<e~;! (~Ill for more 
students, organizati<'· ;;,

Megan at x2963. UTILITIES. AVAILABLE NOW! 900 ULTIMATE VACATION including 
info, lnd ~FREE Tri!V<I C~talog! fraternities
BLOCK OF E. LASALLE. 271-0373. SPRING BREAK!! Bahamas Party airfare, hotel, all meals, beverages, and soror~ies ::~campus
It means a lot to the owner so Cruise $2791 Panama City $99! S. watersports, and morel This trip is 
Council Travel 
representatives promoting Cancun
please return. Padre $1991 Cancun $469! Jamaica not tor everyone; but if you want 
1153 N. Dea1:x:m St., 2nd floor Ol>Ca!10,1160610 
Bahamas, Daytona and PanamaFOR SALE $3991 Kathleen 283-3958, Lisa 283-THE BEST for only $799, Call 1­City!
4667. 800-331-3136. 
311·951·0585 

page 12 

Sharpton plan·s" to lead delegation to 'Libya 
LONDON (AP) -American black activist the Rev. AI Sharpton said Sunday he wants to lead a delegation to Libya to talk with officials about ten­sions with the United States. 
The flamboyant and contro­versial Sharpton, on a four-day visit to Britain, said he and British lawmaker Bernie Grant are concerned that there could be U.S.-led military action against the north AfriCan coun­try. 
The United States and Britain have asked Libya to extradite two men wanted for the bomb­ing of Pan Am Flight 103. The bomb, hidden in unaccompa­nied luggage, blew up the Boeing 747 killing all 259 peo­ple on board and 11 others on the ground in Lockerbie, Scotland, on Dec. 21, 1988. 
Libya has reportedly rejected the extradition requests. 
against Libya in consultation with world powers. Military force has not been ruled out. 
Sharpton met Sunday with Grant and said the opposition Labor l-awmaker, who recently returned from Libya, would make his Libyan contacts avail­able to the delegation. 
"There is nothing more im­portant in international affairs than trying to avoid a war ... It is incumbent on moral and po­litical leaders to avoid a war," said Sharpton, whose detrac­tors allege that he is more in­terested in inciting conflict than in resolving tensions. 
Sharpton said the delegation would be made up of U.S. and British law}llakers and minis­ters, but he did not specify. He did not say when the trip might take place. 
He said they would request to meet with Libya's highest offi­
-~----~--~ 
-------------1 
:-r. '-' .,, ., :<Jf • 
The Observer Monday, November 25, 1991 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Art with ink 
Monday, November 25, 1991 

11117 11110 TNm[1otj!!.Y01H) Roo. I'U. Nextg~rne 

W 1. (2) Washing1on [121 2. (1) Miami (9) 3. (3) Florida State 4. (4) Michigan 
s. (5) Aorlda 

6. (7) Penn Stata 
7. (B) Alabama B. (9) Iowa B. (10) Tanne•­
10. (12) Texas A&M 11. (11) Nebraska 12. (13) Clemson 
13. (14) East Carolina 14. (6) California 15. (15) Colorado 16. (16) Syracuse 17. (17) Oklahoma 1B. (19) Notre Dame 19. (21) Stanford 20. (20) VIrginia 
21. 
(22) NC State 

22. 
(18) Ohio State 

23. 
(-) Tulsa 

24. 
(-) UCLA 25. (23) Georgia 



11·0 516 10·0 510 11/30 vs. San Diego State 10·1 477 11/30 at Florida 10·1 463 9-t 445 11/30 vs. Florida State 9·2 390 11/28 at Pittsburgh 9·1 387 11/30 vs. Auburn 10·1 349 B·2 349 11/30 vs. Vanderbilt 8·1 320 11/28 vs. Texas 
8·1·1 311 11/29 vs. Oklahoma 8·1-1 283 11/30vs.DukeinTokyo 10-1 276 
9-2 262 
8-2-1 223 9·2 202 8-2 196 11/29 at Nebraska 8-3 176 1 t /30 at Hawaii 8-3 166 
9-2-1 117 9-2 90 8-3 59 7·3 58 11/30 at SMU 
7-3-1 53 7-3 41 11/30 at Georgia Tach 
Others receiving votes: Brigham Young 37, Bowling Green 19, Baylor 17, Mississippi State 6, Indiana 5, Kansas State 5, San Diego State 4, TCU 3, Fresno Slate 2, North Carolina 2, Air Force 1, Arkansas 1, Georgia Tech 1. 
Bold lndlcatea ND opponent 
Schools participating: Arizona State, Ball State, Brigham Young, Colorado, Columbia, Cornell, Duke, Florida, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Miami, Nebraska, North Carolina State, Notre Dame, Oregon State, Purdue, Southam Cal, Texas, Utah, VIrginia. 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
The Observer 

Huskies vault over Miami to #1 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
It was close, but Washington edged out Miami to take over the top spot in the National Collegiate Sportswriter's Poll. The Huskies collected 12 first­place votes, while the Hurricanes could manage only nine. 
Florida State, Michigan and Florida, round out the top five, with Penn State, Alabama, Iowa, Tennessee and Texas A&M each moving forward to complete the top ten. 
California· plummeted eight spots to number 14 after falling to Stanford, while the Cardinal used the upset to crack the top 20 at number 19. 
Notre Dame managed to move up· one place to number 18 despite being idle on Saturday, while Tulsa and UCLA enter the poll at 23 and 24, respectively. 
Brigham Young and Bowling Green each fell out of the top 25, making room for the two newcomers. 

Christian Interfaith Prayer Service 
Monday, November 25, 1991 
7:30 p.m.Sacred Heart Church 
Participating Groups: 
Black Cultural Arts Council Campus Bible Study Campus FeJiqwshipCampus M1n1stry Fellowship of Cnristian Athletes lnterVars1ty Christian FellowshiP. Master of Divinity Student Cho1r Moreau SeminaryNotre Dame Encounter 
Guest choir: Macedonia Missionary Baptist Youth Choir 

0MPUS 
-
MINISID' 
Campus·Wide 
page 13 

San Francisco halts ND volleyball's NCAA dream 

Observer Staff Report 
The NCAA tournament hopes of the Notre Dame women's volleyball team were dashed as they split two matches with San Francisco and Hofstra in Hempstead, N.Y. this weekend. 
On Saturday, the Lady Dons of San Francisco pulled out a hard-fought victory over the Irish 5-15, 2-15, 15-2, 15-11, 18-16, thus ending Notre Dame's dreams of garnering an NCAA tournament invitation by finishing the season with four straight wins. 
Senior co-captain Chris Choquette, taking over the team's leadership role for in­jured senior co-captain Alicia Turner, led the Irish with 17 kills. Notre Dame also got an­other inspiring performance from junior middle hitter Jessica Fiebelkorn, who turned in 14 kills and a team-high 13 digs. 
The Irish bounced back on Sunday with a 15-7, 15-13, 12­15, 6-15, 15-13 victory over Hofstra to win their 20th game of the season, an impressive feat considering last year's 9-27 slate. 
Chris Choquette 
Freshman Christy Peters con­
tinued to impress, landing 16 
kills and digging out a team­
high 22 balls. Marilyn Cragin, 
a junior outside hitter, paced 
the Irish with 20 kills for a .432 
hitting percentage. 
Notre Dame started out im­
pressively against San 
Francisco, winning the first two 
games by 10 and 13 points, 
thanks to an impressive .462 
and .471 hitting percentage in 
the games. Then the Irish's 
troubles began. 
They turned in only four kills and a .095 hitting percentage in losing the third game 15-2 and San Francisco continued their torrid hitting with .450 and .419 averages in the two fmal games compared to Notre Dame's .300-plus average. 
It was the same story the next game against Hofstra(24­13), only there was a ditTerent ending. The Irish cruised to two wins in the frrst two games but then faltered, hitting just .121 and .111 as Hofstra posted two successive victories. 
Hofstra then hit .429 to NO's .381 in the fifth game, but the Irish came away with the 2­point win to push their record to 20-7. 
On the horizon for the Irish are two games on Nov. 29 and 30 in Arlington against Texas­Arlington to close out the regu­lar-season. As far as post-sea­son play is concerned, the Irish will most likely have to settle for a bid to the National Volleyball Invitational Championships. They figure to be one of the top seeds in the tournament. 
Members and coaches of the team were unavailable for comment due to late travel plans. 

MAPLE LANE BARBER SHOP 
HOURS: MON·FRI 8:00·5:30 SAT 8:00·3:00 
2112 South Bend Avenue •Appointments If desired 
272-6722 
People Under 1ho Stairs R 
5:00 7:30 9:45 
Block RobeR 
4:45 7:15 9:30 
811~ Blthgato R 4:30 7:00 9:t5 

page 14 The Observer Monday, November .25.,1~91 
Redskins falter; Patriots stun Buffalo SPOR1S SHORTS 
Cowboys 24, Redskins 21 
Not even Washington could escape on a Sunday full of upsets. 
The Redskins, trying to become the fourth team in NFL history to start 12-0, instead lost 24-21 at home to their old nemesis, the Dallas Cowboys. 
Giants 21, Buccaneers 14 
Phil Simms, given a chance to play after Jeff Hostetler broke a bone in his back, threw a 30­yard touchdown pass to Stephen Baker with 16 seconds left to lift New York. 
Simms completed seven straight passes as the Giants went 90 yards in 85 seconds. Hostetler was hit in the third quarter and left with an injury that the team described as not career-threatening. Lawrence Taylor and two other Giants were hurt. 
Patriots 16, Bills 13 

New England intecepted four of Jim Kelly's passes and sacked him four times to beat Buffalo at home. 
The Patriots had lost their previous four games, all decided in the final minute. This time, after the Bills (10-2) moved to the New England 35 with 1:07 left, the Patriots sacked Kelly and then forced 
an incompletion. 
Steelers 26, Oilers 14 

Pittsburgh prevented Houston from clinching its first AFC Central championship as Warren Moon threw a career­high five interceptions and lost a fumble. 
Lions 34, Vikings 14 

Barry Sanders ran for Detroit records of 220 yards and four touchdowns as the Lions romped at Minnesota. 
Dolphins 16, Bears 13 
Pete Stoyanovich kicked a 27­yard field goal and Miami scored on the first possession of overtime to win at snowy Soldier Field. 
The Dolphons (6-6) stopped Chicago's five-game winning streak. The Bears (9-3) hurt themselves with a bad snap on a punt in the last two minutes, leading to Dan Marino's tying, 
1991-92 BOWL SCHEDULE 
m 
~ ....... 
B. Green vs. Fresno e::>nr...eR State or San Jose St., ~~~ 
California DEC. !4 ~op
er 


~ "" 
Georgia Tech vs. Stanford, . Aloha DEC. 25. Hall of arne 

.~·:r. Colorado or Oklahoma ='~•::~
·'•".....

vs. Alabama, ·~, Blockbuster DEC. 28 Citrus 

Arkansas vs. Georgia, rt;=\1 DEC.29 ~ 
lndepe dence CottQn 
T 
Air Force vs. ......~
0
~~ 

Mississippi State, ~~~ 
DEC. 29 ~1.1'1: 
• 
L~lherty ~~
Virginia vs. Oklahoma 
.......~ 

or Nebraska, ~ 29
Gator DEC. Rose 
~ Brigham Young ~ 
W ~
vs.Iowa, DEC. 30 

Holiday Orange 
San Diego State 
~ 
~ vs. Tulsa, DEC. 30 
?
Freedom 


Sugar 
Illinois 
~= 

vs. UCLA, . J John DEC. 31 ~ Hancock Peach 
2-yard touchdown pass to Farrell Edmunds. 
Raiders 38, Bengals 14 
Tim Brown returned a punt 75 yards for a touchdown and Elvis Patterson scored after a botched Cincinnati punt as Los Angele-s tied Denver for first place in the AFC West. 
Browns 20, Chiefs 15 
Leroy Hoard caught a 71-yard touchdown pass and scored on a 1-yard run while Cleveland forced five turnovers at Kansas City. 
The Chiefs got inside the Browns' 15 six times, but turned that into just 13 points. Christian Okoye lost two fum­bles inside the 5. 
Seahawks13, Broncos 10 
Seattle overcame four turnovers by Dave Krieg and stopped John Elway at the Kingdom e. 
Krieg fumbled twice and tied the NFL record of 106 held by Dan Fouts. Krieg also threw a 4-yard touchdown pass to Jeff Chadwick that put the Seahawks (6-6) ahead 13-0 at halftime. 
Jets 24, Chargers 3 Blair Thomas ran for his first two touchdowns of the season and New York won at home. 
Thomas scored from the 22 and the 1, and gained 7 6 yards on 15 carries. The Jets (7-5) surpassed their victory total of last season in Bruce Coslet's first year as coach. 
Packers 14, Colts 10 
Quarterback Mike Tomczak went 48 yards on Green Bay's longest run of the season and the Packers stopped Indianapolis in the fourth quar­ter to win at Milwaukee. 
Eagles 34, Cardinals 14 
Linebacker Seth Joyner re­turned a fumble 34 yards for a touchdown and forced another that Clyde Simmons, leading Philadelphia at Phoenix. 
Falcons 23, Saints 20 
Norm Johnson ended a long weekend for the division lead­ers, kicking a 50-yard field goal with 1:5 7 remaining in over­time. 
Michael Haynes caught an SO­yard scoring pass from Chris Miller in the third quarter, then caught an 18-yard pass to tie it the score at 20 with 1:53 left in the regulation. New Orleans (9­
3) had led 20-10 with 12:43 to go in regulation. 
SPOR1S BRIEFS 

•Sports briefs are accepted every day except Saturday until 
5:00 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please include your name and phone number in case there are any questions concerning your brief. 
•Sugar 
Bowl tickets will be on sale Thursday, Nov. 21 through Dec. 4, from 8:30 to 5. Tickets will be $40 apiece and each Notre Dame or St. Mary's student may present 4 IDs. All tickets will, be issued at the ticket office on the 2nd floor of the J.A.C.C. upon payment. 

•ND/SMC 
Sailing Team: The sweatshirts are in. If you are interested in buying one before break call Moira 284-5344. We will also be selling them at the meeting Monday, Dec. 2, in O'Shag room 204 at 7:00p.m. 

•Football 
equipment return will be this Monday Nov. 25, from 7-9 p.m. at Gate 9 of the stadium. All those who have not returned equipment must do so at this time. Bring check-out slips. 

•Catch 
the John Macleod Show Monday from 7-8 p.m. exclusively on 640 AM, WVFI. Campus radio has the feed for the South Bend area. Call 1-800-488-4676 to ask MacLeod any questions about the team and the upcoming season. 


Indiana vs. Baylor, 
DEC. 3! 

Ohio State vs. Syracuse,
JAN. 1 

Clemson vs. California, JAN.l 
Texas A&M vs. Florida State, JAN.1 
Penn State vs. Tennessee, JAN.1 
Michigan vs. Washington, JAN.1 
Miami vs. Colorado or Nebraska, JAN. I 
Florida vs. Notre Dame, JAN. I 
East Carolina vs. 
North Carolina St., 
JAN. 1 

The Observer/Brendon Regan 
Wrestlers place well at St. Louis 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team began its season at the St. Louis Open this weekernd:."l with seven wrestlers ptamtst in their respective classes, 
The Irish were sent()rl:l Ma.rcus Gowe1tu Curt Engler. w . reached the finals classes; Gowens, 12th at 126 pounds. Engler, a heavyweight, placed for the first their careers. 
Also at hlmvyweight, Steve King placed and senior Chuck carne in fifth. Juniors Boyd..·and Em.il 
·<;(

Phelps, father of .-~~·~n·-' Dame coach Digger Phelps, died Thursday at the age of nn Dl,a(;uu, N~v~ He is survived by his wife, Margaret~ ltbtrntthtf1!rF~. Barb of Tuscon, Ariz.. and Diane of Sudbury, Mass. son, Richard of South Bend. The funeral will be held 
a.m. Monday in Beacon. 
Angeles-The Los Angeles Clippers signed guard 
. this weekend to a contract with undisclosed terms. 1a Jorrner Notre Dame star. had been playing in the IB(tsl<etl)alJ Association with the LaCrosse Catbirds. This season ,._,.,,~.was averaging 19,2 points. 13:4 assists, and 3.0 steals 

Rivers was originallya first round draft choice of the 1Atigel4es· Lakers in 1988. 
Houston·Houston Rocket's center Hakeem Olajuwon lho,spittalized after suffering a fluttering heartbeat, was placed inl·n,..,,,.. reserve list Saturday. The 7 -foot all-star won't I"'""UI"' to return until Dec. 5. Doctors diagnosed him with uunH.Hl. the same ailment that sent President Bush to 
AP 
PINKY BUNS • KA,.BY liE • 
Happy8®~ 
Birthday 
Jenny Ray! 

Chill out! You still have one more year 
Love. Deno. Quinn. Caron. Jules & Leroy 

----~­ ~  - -- -~--------------,  
'  
Monday, November 25, 1991 · ·  The Observer  page 15  

CM.YIN AND HOIIIII!S BILL WATTERSON THI! fAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
IOMORR()W Wt."R£ GOING­
EAC.\.1 Cf US 1-\t>.S TQ FI~D It) \)ISC.\JSS "CUR.QENi t'JtNTS 
t>. NEWSI'I\I'ER. ~Q:nCL£, 
IN '3::.1-\00L 
R£AD II TO -rnt: C..LASS, t>-NIJ 'E'J:I'LAIN IT 
~\~~ )~~1 ' 7 I 
L....____.:::::..:...._.L._ ,,.,_____Ji ~ 
~cruA\.L'I,
"SP~C.'t £\\.\EN 

W'ti)S 1'NIJ·I-\tJ...O£D 
T\--ltJ<.t..'S El\JIS CLOOt.:· 
N<JI M\JG-1 LHT TO 
EXPLAIN. 

CROSSWOfiJ CAMPUS 

1-Zone 
6 Daub 11 Food fish 13 Burned 15 Dye ingredient16 Washington phone 
(2 wds.) 
17 Herd of whales 1B Winter wear 20 Prison 21 Gibbons 23 English novelist 24 Ball attire 25 Leases 27 Vane direction 2B Hr. Jones 29 Verses • 31 Did office work 32 New Mexico town 33 Miss Cantrell 34 Lucky chance 36 Deciduous trees 39 French river 40 Certain relative, 
for short 41 Gary and family 43 German river 44 Commonplace
46 Twofold 47 "For shame!" 48 Russian plains 50 Prefix for meter 

51 Ital ian gulf 
53 Part of golf 
55 Law 
56 Assyrians, e.g. 
57 Thrill 
58 Did dangerous work 
DOWN 
1 Appetizers 2 Food 3 Nothing 4 "-'s Irish Rose" 5 Of the moon 6 Extent of view 7 Wi)ander of tennis 8 Building part 9 fatty
10 Did over 11 Mother of Ishmael 12 Miss Brewer, et al. 13 "110 in the -" 
14 Ex-pitcher Mclain 19 Girl 22 Height 24 Camelot notable 26 -eyes 28 Sure thing 30 Girl's name 31 Wide's partner 33 "Leapin' -!" 34 Having leaves 35 -arts 36 Certain investment· 37 Very learned 38-glass39 Boxing blows 40 Indian craft 42 Furnace leftovers 44 Montana city 45 -and Penates 48 Certain fastener 
(2 wds.) 49 Blockhead 52 -standstill 54 Clock dial number 
Monday 
7 p.m. Film, "The Big Heat." Annenberg Auditorium. 
7:30 p.m. Campus-wide Christian Interfaith Prayer Service. Sacred Heart Church. 9 p.m. Film, "Vindiana." Annenberg Auditorium. 
LECTURES 
Monday 
7 p.m. "The Men Who Killed Kennedy." Dr. John Gordon. Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's. 
Tuesday . 
12:30 p.m. "The Changing Political Economy of Southern European Capitalism." Lynne Wozniak, Department of Government and International Studies. C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Baked Parmesan Chicken Breast Beef Turnover with Gravy Eggplant Parmesan Baked Chicken with Herbs 
• 

S~CSophomore Parents Weekend 
•
If any sophomore did not receive information regarding Sophomore Parents Weekend please stop by the Student Activities Office or contact Jennifer Rasmusser at 284-5178. 
sponsored by SAB 

r 
I 
i 
Sports! I I page 16 Monday, November 25, 1991 
Women's hoops drops two games over weekend 
Penn State, Stanford prove too much for Irish to handle 
By RENE FERRAN 
tremendous job in the second Associate Sports Editor half." Phjllips ended up with 19 
For sure, it was the learning points, 17 in the second half. experience the Notre Dame Senior Margaret Nowlin led the women's basketball team ex­Irish with 19 points, while pected. Marciniak added 16. 
The Irish dropped close Notre Dame's lack of an out­games to third-ranked Penn side game also came back to State 86-70 on Friday and sev­haunt it against PSU. The Irish enth-ranked Stanford 88-76 hit only 4-of-26 shots from the yesterday afternoon. And while perimeter-all four by it hung tough in both contests, Orlosky-for the game, while it was Notre Dame's inexperi­the Nittany Lions, sparked by ence down the stretch that cost point guard Dana Eikenberg's
Margaret Nowlin 
it wins in both games. three straight treys to start the 
"We played well in spurts, but with 10 minutes left, and the game, hit 15-of-30·from out­we didn't have the discipline at crowd of 1,766 was rattling the side. the end to get the job done rafters. "It was important to get the when we really needed to," said Notre Dame was able to take team started," said Eikenberg, Irish coach Muffet McGraw two one-point leads-the last, who finished with 19 points. after the Penn State game, but 70-69, on a Marciniak layup "We needed to get an emotional it could have applied to the with 4:59 left-but each time, lift by coming in and hitting that Stanford game as well. Penn State responded with a first bucket." 
In both cases, it was Notre basket of its own to retake the In the first half on Sunday, Dame's inability to handle a lead. All-American candidate Stanford also tried a full-court pressing defense that did the Susan Robinson, battling the flu press out on the Irish. But Notre young squad in. bug, grabbed an offensive Dame, perhaps learning from 
The Nittany Lions clamped a rebound and put it back home Friday's experience, handled it full-court press on the Irish in for two of.her eight points to with ease, scoring several easy the first half Friday, and within put PSU back on top to stay, 71-baskets in transition. 
the next four-and-a-half min­70. utes, had expanded a 26-23 "We had some good Like Friday's game, the Irish lead to a 41-25 advantage. shots-we missed a couple of were unable to generate much Notre Dame became rattled, wide-open layups-but we just of an outside attack, but they forcing up quick shots and get­couldn't capitalize," said stayed within five points at ting into a run-and-gun style McGraw. "Robinson, even with halftime, 43-38. Notre Dame's McGraw did not want to see. the flu, gives them a go-to per­half-court defense generated 
"We tried to run with them, son, and that's what we're eight steals, and senior and that wasn't a good idea. We missing. We need to find our Margaret Nowlin, who had 19 had to slow the ball down and go-to player." points against PSU, poured in control the tempo," she said. From that point on, the pres­12 in the first half Sunday. "We did a better job in the sure which had mounted The turning point of the game second half, but we didn't do it throughout the second half fi­came with 14 minutes remain­in the first." nally wore down the young ing when the Cardinal went to a 
"We got flustered," explained Irish, and the Nittany Lions half-court trap. The Irish once was as disruptive as it was," However, while starting out sophomore Sherri Orlosky, who pounced all over the weary again looked confused in the added Stanford coach Tara the season 0-2 is disappointing, had 13 points against the Lions. squad, scoring the last 17 face of pressure defense, going VanDerveer. "We were just try­the Irish can find solace in the "We needed to calm down, look points of the game. over five-and-a-half minutes ing a little change of pace." fact that they were competitive for the open man, and run what without scoring. As well, junior Val Whiting with top-notch opponents, a we had been working on." "They (Penn State) didn't get At one point, they turned the stepped to the forefront in the goal McGraw stressed going 
Penn State built a 43-30 half­rattled, even when we took the ball over on seven consecutive second half, scoring 13 points into the weekend. With time lead, but Notre Dame lead late in the game," said possessions as Stanford scored and putting a charge into a Marquette on tap Wednesday came out in the second half and McGraw. "We were tired at that 16 unanswered points to take a Cardinal team drained from a night, Notre Dame now must slowly chipped away at the point. We didn't have the depth 68-51 lead-and control of the 26-point victory over fourth­show the capability to bounce margin. The Irish closed within they did." game. ranked Georgia in Athens, Ga., back. six at 58-52 when freshman "Our conditioning down the "I think it caught us a little by Friday. And Nowlin is confident this Michelle Marciniak, who had 12 stretch enabled us to hit the surprise," said Nowlin, who led "I think Val understands what team will do just that. 
.. second-half points, went down shots when we needed to," all scorers with 24 points and she has to do for our team. "We proved that we can def­with what appeared to be a se­added Lions coach Rene added 10 rebounds. "We She's not only our physical, but initely play with nationally­rious ankle injury. Portland. "Our kids were able worked on it in practice yester­our emotional leader," said ranked teams," the the Irish co­But when Marciniak returned to keep their composure, and day, but we weren't aggressive VanDerveer. "She ran the floor captain said. "We've got 27 to the game a minute later, the Kathy Phillips got a wake-up enough in attacking it." better in the second half, and more games to go. We'll be just lead was down to one, 58-57, call at halftime and did a "I was surprised that the trap she concentrated more inside." fine." 
ND Hockey sweeps past Lake Forest
Swim teams fall to Kansas 
By ANTHONY KING the honors, as he shot one The Irish power play, which
Observer Staff Report 

competition, Jenny Kipp took 
Assistant Sports Editor through the legs of Vacco for had been 0 for 3 on Friday
The men's and women's fourth place overall. 
his tOOth career point. night and a concern all this swim teams gained some Colin Cooley's second-place The Irish hockey team got Before the fans could sit season, would turn out to be valuable experience this finish in the 100-yard breast­exactly the medicine it needed down, Notre Dame struck the very thing that sparked the weekend at the University of stroke was the best finish for against Lake Forest this week­again. At 15:04, Kevin Patrick Irish to victory in the second 
Illinois' Fighting Illini the men against the 
end. whistled a slapshot form the left game.
Extravaganza. Jayhawks. 
The Irish reeled off two wins point past Vacco to give the Both teams opened the meet
• 
against the Foresters, issuing a Irish a 4-0 advantage. The Irish would net fourFriday against Kansas. The Sean Hyer finished second 7-0 beating on Friday and fol­power play goals, raising their
Jayhawks won both meets, in the three meter diving 
lowing it up with a 5-2 victory The Irish would score once man-up percentage to 27.3% 
knocking off the women 119-competition. 
in Chicago, evening their record more in the second and light for the season.
48 and defeating the men Greg Cornick finished third at (4-4-0). the lamp three more times in Winger Lou Zadra scored127-40. in the 200-yard freestyle and 
Friday night's game in the the third to make the final another goal, on the power
Tanya Williams was a bright Ed Broderick duplicated the Joyce could best be described margin 7-0. Patrick would net play, to give him seven for the spot for the women, finishing feat in the 200-yard as an offense that finally ex­the last goal, giving him two year and 11 goals in the last first in both the 200-yard indi­individual medley. 
ploded. With the Irish already goals for the game. thirteen games. 
vidual medley and the 100-Jim Birmingham turned in a ahead 1-0, right winger Sterling Irish goaltender Brent yard backstroke. third-place finish in the 50­Black lifted a deflection of Lothrop recorded his first ca­Notre Dame will head eastFreshman Jenny Dahl took yard freestyle and freshman Curtis Janicke's slapshot into reer shutout, stopping 18 shots this week, as they will facesecond place in the 200-yard Andy Kiley finished third in the upper left corner past goalie and killing six Lake Forest Merrimack on Tuesday andfreestyle and Becky Wood fm­the 100-yard butterfly. 
Dan Vacco. power plays. second-ranked Maine on Fridayished second in the 100-yard The loss dropped the men's "We're coming around as a and Saturday in what shouldbreaststroke as the women's record to 5-4. Official results Only 17 seconds later the team," commented coach Ric prove to be some of the tough­record fell to 6-2. from Saturday's and Sunday's Irish lit the lamp again. This Schafer. "In our losses we est competition for the Irish allIn the three meter diving meets were not available. 
time left wing Lou Zadra did learned some things." year. 




