


VOL. XXIV NO. 117 Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Samt Mary's College 
NOTRE OAME•INOIANA 

SEOUL, South Korea (AP) ­President Roh Tae-woo's con­servative party acknowledged Wednesday that it suffered a surprise defeat in South Korea's general elections and failed to retain majority control of parliament. 
The election reflected strains in the government's traditional alliance with big business, which has been resisting efforts to increase public control over one of the world's fastest­growing economies. 
The powerful founder of Hyundai, who formed a party just one month ago and cam­paigned to stop government meddling in business, won 24 seats. 
"We watched the election re­sults with shock and disap­pointment, but we will humbly accept the people's will," said Kim Yoon-hwan, secretary gen­eral of the ruling Democratic Liberal Party. 
Although the voting comes during negotiations with Com­munist North Korea on nuclear weapons inspections and even­tual unification, it was not ex­pected to affect South Korea's approach to the talks. 
But it could lead to more pressure on the government to speed up political reforms. The results were a "complete de­
Fun with engineering 

feat" for the government, op­Engineering students learn new and exiting things with computers in the Cushing Hall Engineering Lab. position leader Kim Dae-jung 
S. Korean governing party concedes defeat 


Ciccone projects the future of journalism in the 90s 
By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
Richard Ciccone, managing editor of the "Chicago Tribune", projected that journalism in the next decade will return to smaller publications with more focused reporting in a lecture titled "Journalism in the 90s." 
Ciccone, who is an NO gradu­ate, cited the changing nature of American culture as the root of the change in journalism. Today, "everything is pro­grammed for television, the sound bite," said Ciccone. 
He used the example of presi­dential candidate Bill Clinton, who chose to explain his actions through the television program "60 Minutes," rather than talk to the "New York Times," as would have been done in the past. 
Television, especially cable, has taken over roles previously played by newspapers, said Cic­cone, and they will take on even larger roles as the decade ends. 
Although American culture may be dominated by television, Ciccone still sees a role for newspapers. "What do we give you that you need?" he asked. "Hopefully news." 
"We are out of the news busi­ness. We cannot compete with CNN," said Ciccone. 

"The most important thing we have to do is tell you a story," he said. He sees the disappearance of the classic, inverted pyramid story, which tells the most important infor­mation in the headline and de­creases in importance as the story continues, by the begin­ning of the next century. 
Ciccone forecasts a return to a smaller publication directed towards specific audiences that "may contain 10 really well done articles in its main sec­tion." In addition to this sec­tion, newspapers may offer 
NO-Australia program begins next fall 

By BECKY BARNES 
News Writer 
A group of Notre Dame stu­dents will be heading to the "land down under," next fall to begin the first semester of the foreign study program at the University of Notre Dame-Aus­tralia. 
The program has received an overwhelming amount of inter­est from students, according to Isabel Charles, associate provost. "It's like a new fron­tier," she said. 
Twenty-five students will take part in the program each semester next year. The aca­demic courses will focus pri­marily on studies of the Pacific Rim area, concentrating on Business Administration courses in the fall and Arts and Letters in the spring. 
One Notre Dame faculty member will accompany the students each semester and act as an academic advisor for them. Howard Lanser, associ­ate professor of finance and business economics will advise in the fall and teach managerial economics. Lanser has served as chair of the finance and business economics depart­ments and cites his administra­tive experience as one reason he was chosen to accompany the group along with his expe­rience in international business. 
Sonia Gernes, professor of English, will teach a course on literature of the Pacific during the spring semester. Gernes taught at a university in New Zealand in 1986 as a Fulbright scholar. 
Although the University of Notre Dame, Indiana has no fi­nancial or. legal ties to Notre Dame-Australia, there is a ideo­logical connection between the two. According to University provost Timothy O'Meara, two Catholic lay men in Australia "became inspired with the idea of starting a Catholic university in Australia." They studied many Catholic universities around the world, and decided to model theirs after Notre Dame. 

The men approached former University President Father Hesburgh, who passed the idea on to current president Father Edward Malloy, executive vice president Father E. William Beauchamp, and O'Meara. Malloy, Beauchamp and O'Meara assisted in the devel­opment of the charter for the 
see Australia I page 4 

told jubilant supporters. 
With more than 90 percent of the votes counted for National Assembly elections, the Demo­cratic Liberals led in 113 of the 237 single-member districts, six seats short of a majority, KBS Television said. 
To form a government, Roh's party is likely to try to merge with an opposition group or en­tice independent candidates into its fold, as it did after the last general election, in 1988. 
The results indicated lower than expected support for the ruling party as it prepares for the presidential election this fall to replace Roh, whose single five-year term ends next February. 
Candidates of the main oppo­sition group led in 77 districts and a month-old party founded by maverick millionaire Chung Ju-yung had 24 winners, KBS said. Independent candidates led in 22 districts, and a candi­date from a minor political party won one seat. 
Election officials said 72 per­cent of 29 million eligible voters cast ballots. 
Tuesday's vote carne nine months after the ruling party easily won nationwide munici­pal elections. 
more specific sections, such as sports or entertainment, which readers can choose to subscribe to. "We're going to have to have a very concise product, and it's going to have to be very readable," he continued. 
Ciccone also cited the chang­ing nature of the American family as another reason for the shift in journalism. He was surprised to see that in a news meeting during the beginning of the campaign year, they did not "have a newsroom full of re­porters clamoring to cover politics." 
After some investigation, he said he realized that in families with both parents working, a journalist can not simply leave for six days on a moment's no­tice. Because of this state of the family, he sees a "stationary future for journalists." 

He continued that journalism, like everything else, "has be­come a business." Since the owners of most large newspa­pers are Fortune 500 compa­nies, employees often go through "scads of training courses," said Ciccone. In these courses, "the kind of people you'd like to teach young jour­nalists to be skeptical of is the kind of people we're training them to become." 
HPC suggests ways to improve campus life 

By EI\41LY HAGE 
News Writer 
No parietals, kegs, and coed housing were the cries from the Hall Presidents' Council at last night's meeting. 

Answering the question of whaf Notre l)ame should change to improve campus life within legal restrictions, off­campus president Chris Sten­grin r¢plied, "No parietals and coed dorms. There's no law against that, is there?" 
Suggestions concerning the alcohol policy and housing were paran:wunt among those given to Associate Law Professor Matthew Barrett, a member of the Committee O:n Student Life, who asked the HPC what they did and did not like about stu­dent life. 

Concerning the alcohol policy, Fisher president Ed Keener said that the alcohol policy should not be made more strict. "It's an opportunity for students to learn about (drinking) in a safe environment. People will get their hands on it anyway." he said. 
Lewis president Allison Wisk suggested that the campus pro· vide more 24-hour space, in addition to the 24-hour lounge in the basement of LaFortune, which she said is too small. 
Wisk said that parietals pre· vent her from being able to group study for many of her 
see HPC 1page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Pro baseball players earn their money 

Sports Writer 

baseball players made no money. (My dad had told me that the team was only responsible for the player's shoes. This only strengthened my hypothesis). 
My dad then told me that many baseball players made more money than the president. This concept totally confused me. I remember arguing with him, asking ~why should they make so much? It's not like they have to think; they just have fun all day." 
His answer was plain and simple: "they can do things that not many people can do. They can hit the ball at 90 m.p.h., throw the ball at 90 m.p.h., hit a target from 300 feet, jump higher than your height, and run faster than anyone you'll ever encounter." 
I quickly deduced, even at 8 years old, that that was the reason why actors, lawyers and doctors made so much money-because they have spent years of their lives developing a talent that many people cannot achieve. They have dedicated their lives to the causes of either saving lives, abiding the law, or entertaining the common folk. 
As Americans, we place much stock in the things we need. Therefore, we pay dearly for these necessities. We need doctors and lawyers as well as entertainment. Focusing on entertainment, we need an outlet, a diversion from the seriousness and monotony of our lives. If we have a bad day, we can vent our frustrations by watching Rambo, laughing as he kills thousands of people, or we can go to the baseball park and tell Wade Boggs bow much of a jerk he is. In any sense, entertainment is a very important aspect in our lives. 
In regards to the baseball industry, we are the ones who pay for this entertainment, yet we are the ones who criticize it. We carefully watch these players exert their talents while we stare in amazement at how fast they throw and how accurate they pitch. However, we do not really want to pay them anything. 
People have said in the past ~Baseball players should play solely for the love of baseball." Okay, tell that same concept to a doctor who has just spent X-number of years dedicating his or her life to the study of the body or a specific specialization. "Hey doc, you love it so much that you should have no problem allowing the government to socialize it. Do it for the love of healing!" NOT. 
We must keep in mind that what is enter­taining for us is a job, a livelihood, for baseball players. 
Is it not part of the American dream to make as much money as possible? If you had the opportunity to make $7 million, would you turn it down? You probably would not and neither should those who have the opportunity to make the American dream come alive for them, even if we think they deserve it or not. 
The opinions expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not neceassarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Production  News  
Lisa Bourdon  Alicia Reale  
Stephanie Goldman  Sarah Doran  
Sports  Systems  
George Dohrmann  Harry Zembillas  
Accent  VIewpoint  
Mara Divis  Rich Riley  
Amy Hardgrove  Joe Moody  
Patrick Moran  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Garr Schwartz  Beth Duane  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
When I was about 8 years old, I asked my father how much money baseball players made. (I was considering this as a career at the time, unaware of course, of the gender problems that would arise.) I asked him because I honestly thought 
EILEEN MCGUIRE 
P'ORI!CAIT: 
Cloudy and not as milid today. A 90 perent chance of 
· ) rain .Thursday will ?) be mild with a '''''''''' chance of rain. 
:.· 
:'):': City H L 
::' Anchorage 38 26 ··.· ·. Atlanta 62 45 Bogota 75 32 Boslon 39 25 · · Calro 73 52 Cleveland 55 35 Dallas 76 52 Denver 54 32 Havana 66 70 Indianapolis 54 39 Jerusalem 52 39 Kiev 50 32 London 48 51 Lima 84 72 Moscow 45 23 Nashville 50 31 New York 49 3 9 Paris 46 37 Philadelphia 55 39 San Franclsoo 67 53 
South Bend 311 211 
Tampa 75 55 

r-~~--------------------------------------------------------------,}:~:;1p,_,. T~~ 56~Washington, D.C. 3739 Hl ~~IT] rn~i) ~ 
warsrm 4334
0 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAN T.STORiriS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY 

;,.,•.. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

Nun to ~rosecute alleged rapists 

NATIONAL 
Coach's teachings are unpopular 
•BOULDER, Colo. -A University of Colorado coach who became a hero for turning around a losing football team is getting jeered for using his title and popularity to preach evangelical Christian views against homosexuality. Bill McCartney's remarks and the resulting outrage have placed university President Judith Albino in a quandary. "This university must keep this man in line!" said senior Samantha Levine. "He has demonstrated time and time again that he needs to be kept on a leash. He is using his position to create an atmosphere of hate and fear on this campus." 

OF INTEREST 
•catholic Volunteers In Florida will be holding a video presentation today at 4 p.m. at the esc for anyone inter­ested in volunteering at least one year. 
•Philippine Club Lecture. Father Warner will be at 6 
p.m. tonight at Siegfried Hall, not at 7 p.m. as it was scheduled. 
•How to support rape survivors."Suggestions for Concerned Others" will be the topic of a presentation this evening at Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune at 7:30. It will be facilitated by Dr. Rita Donley and Dr. Michael Franco, both from the Counselling Center. All are wel­come. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ March 24 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
...m..

191,584,600 225.89 v 0.50 COMPOSITE 408.88 .. 1.03 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3260.96 ... 11.18 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD {t $ 1.30 to $339.80/oz. SILVER f' .1¢ to $4.088/oz. 




INDIANA 

Ball State fraternity on probation 
•MUNCIE, Ind.-Ball State University has placed a fraternity on two years probation in connection with alleged violations of school hazing and alcohol policies. Sigma Phi Epsilon's probation followed an investigation by Ball State and the fraternity's national officials into the charges of misconduct, which stemmed from a party last month. National officials of Sigma Phi Epsilon last week suspended two-thirds of the local chapter's 115 members and evicted 22 of the 35 living in the Riverside Avenue fraternity house. Chapter officers also were replaced. 
Professor mjssjne, 
•FORT WAYNE, hi • -Police have renewed their search for the body of a missing IU-Purdue Fort Wayne visiting professor days after a second suspect in the man's disappearance was arrested. Authorities arrested Kha Nguyen, 30,'in Jackson, Tenn. He was being held without bond on outstanding warrants in connection with the disappearance and apparent murder of engineering professor Maurice Lam whose body has not been found. Large amounts of blood were found in the Fort Wayne apartment of Nguyen and another suspect 18-year-old Ko-Jin Soh. 
IITalk with the coach. Irish baseball coach Pat Murphy will talk baseball and give his philosophy of life tonight at 9 p.m. at Grace Hall. 
liThe Catholic Worker House will sponsor a hospital­ity luncheon on Thursday from 11:30 to 1:00 at the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome to attend. 
•Mock MCAT'S will be held on Saturday, March 28 in 
118 Nieuwland Science Hall between 9 a.m.  and 4 p.m.  
Participants must bring their own exams.  The MCAT  
Student Manual is recommended.  

ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1634: Maryland was founded by English colonists sent by the second Lord Baltimore. 

• 
In 1957: The Treaty of Rome established the European Economic Community, also known as the Common Market. 

• 
In 1965: The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. led 25,000 marchers to the state capitol in Montgomery, Ala., to protest the denial of voting rights to blacks. 

• 
In 1975: King Faisal of Saudi Arabia was shot to death by a nephew with a history of mental illness. 

• 
In 1990: 87 people, most of them Honduran and Dominican immigrants, were killed when fire raced through an illegal social club in New York. 




Wednesday, March 2!:>, 1!::1!::12 1ne uoserver 
Media influences the way De-icing fluid used on jet before women think and act 
crash Sunday lasts only minutes 
By Erin Brown This causes them to be viewed 
News Writer 
The media has a major influ­ence on the way women think, act, dress, and view themselves, according to a lecture held at Saint Mary's last night. 
The presentation, composed of a film and lecture titled "Killing Us Softly: Images of Women in the Media," was part of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. Patrick White, associate dean of faculty at Saint Mary's and Kathleen Weigert, of the Center for Social Concerns, presented the lecture. 
The film told of how adver­tising is a mass media that cre­ates a nonexistent world. Ad­vertising tends to be unrealistic because neither old nor over­weight women are ever por­trayed. Instead, the ideal and often only imaginary woman is represented by advertising. 
Weigert said "images are cu­mulative and unconscious," and people are influenced by adver­tising whether they realize it or not. This influence leads to the low status of women in society. 
The media also, according to 
the film, places a great empha­
sis on the sexualit of women. 
as objects that can be used or purchased like the objects being advertised. Many ads show women being passive as men dominate or even brutalize them. Women are portrayed by advertising as characteristically innocent, dependent, and passive, according to the film. 
Many students expressed shock at the statistics that men on the average earn more and are able to secure jobs mud more easily than women are 
Weigert stressed the need of women and men to "interact more in informal settings." She said it was very important for women to confront others, especially men, about the prob­lem of the images that the me­dia projects of them. 
White said that people's im­ages acquired through the me­dia must be changed by educa­tion. He added that the roles of men and women need to be portrayed on a more equal level in order to improve the negative images created by the media. 
Happy 19th Birthday to Karri Berri 
She's still paddling around!! 

Love, Mom, Dad, Jenny, and Kathy 
• 

to 

NEW YORK (AP) -The de­icing fluid used on a USAir jet half an hour before it crashed in a snowstorm normally pro­tects against ice for no more than five minutes, a manufac­turer of the fluid said Tuesday. 
The pilot, who was among the 27 people killed in Sunday night's crash, had the plane de­iced with a fluid known as Type 1 about 35 minutes before takeoff. 
"The fluids that would be used at La Guardia or by USAir just won't last that long," said Richard Adams, a retired Fed­eral Aviation Administration official whose expertise is air­craft icing. 
"In a snowstorm similar to La Guardia, where the snow was falling at about 1 1/2 inches an hour, probably the fluid would not have lasted and it would have had to be re-de-iced," agreed Gary Bradley, who chairs a professional engi­neering committee on aircraft icing. 
Depending on the manufac­turer, Type 1 "has a holdover time . . . of a little under a minute to about five minutes," said Iris Charms, a spokeswoman for Octagon Pro­cess, an Edgewater, N.J., com­pany that makes Type 1 and another cold-weather protec­tant for airplanes, known as Type 2. 
Type 2 prevents the formation of ice for at least 30 minutes. But it's not allowed in most instances at La Guardia because of fears it will make the runways too slippery. 
National Transportation Safety Board investigators said de-icing was one of many pos­sible crash causes. 
Federal Aviation Administra­tion spokesman Fred Farrar said it is up to the pilot to de­termine how often a plane needs to be de-iced before takeoff. 
The flight had been properly de-iced at 8:29 p.m. and again at 8:59 p.m. before taking off at about 9:30 p.m., Seth Scofield, USAir president, said Monday. Scofield said the interval between the last treatment and takeoff was "well within standard operating procedure." 
Twenty-four people survived when Flight 405 crashed at the end of the runway during take­off and skidded into FlushingBay. · 
Eighteen people died of drowning, four died from head or torso injuries suffered during impact and four from thermal or burn injuries, medical examiner's spokeswoman Ellen Borakove said Tuesday. One victim had burns, blunt impact and thermal injuries. 
At the airport Tuesday, flatbed trucks carted pieces of the Fokker 28 jet to Hangar 5, where three dozen people ana­lyzed them. 

There were many crushed, twisted, mangled or charred bits, plus four recognizable pieces: the front of the fuselage, including the cockpit, the four­seat first-class section and a row of three coach seats; one wing; the tail; and an engine. 
Airline magazines remained intact in the pockets of the blue first-class seats. 
The NTSB's John Lauber said the experts were looking for any flaws in the engine, struc­ture, flight control system and elsewhere. 
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs La Guardia, allows the Type 2 de-icing fluid at La Guardia only on planes being stored for a long time at a gate. 
Once a plane leaves its gate, the Type 2 fluid must be re­moved. Port Authority officials worry that Type 2 -which is about 300 times thicker than the Type 1 fluid -could make runways slippery if it falls off the wings, said Jim Muldoon, general manager for aviation services. 
But because it lasts longer, Type 2 is especially useful at busy airports like LaGuardia where delays are common, said Joseph Lee, a spokesman for Arco Chemical, a Newtown Square, Pa., company that makes both types of fluid. 
SMC's constitution's article is discussed 
Single. Faculty and Administrative Staff of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College 
Inaugural Regular Social Thursday, 26 March 1992 5:00 -7:00 p.m. ,at the Alumni/Senior Club (off Juniper Road, south of the Stadium) 
Interested single Notre Dame faculty gathered before the Spring Break and wish to extend this invitation to all single Notre Dame and St. Mary's faculty and administrative staff. 
These gatherings will continue the 2nd and 4th Thursdays of each month through May --same time, same place --and continue through the summer on the 4th Thursday of each month. 
COME!! Invite a single friend. 
Inquiries: John Gerber, C.S.C. 239-8606 
000~~~000 

Shopping around 

By CHRISTINE SERAPHIN vised to attempt to have News Writer smoother elections every year. The BOG voted to make the 
Saint Mary's Constitution's Mock Trial Association a Notre article on Elections was the Dame/Saint Mary's club. In main topic of discussion at the addition, Children of Mary also Saint Mary's Board of Gover­gained club status. The mem­nance (BOG) meeting Monday. bers in this club are involved 
Every year the election's por­with praying the Rosary and tion of the Constitution is re-encouraging other students to do so. 


However, 'The A club,' an art club, was not approved for sta­tus. Members of BOG had questions concerning the pur­pose of the club which could not be answered at the meeting. BOG will vote on A club's status at a later date . 
Tomorrow! Mark Your Calendar An ND student takes time out yesterday from studying to browse through the racks of Guatemalan Imports which is going on in La1m1 Fortune until this Saturday. 
0/VV'US
~~"'"<TRY 
14-llii._.:..,.,U I ~til 
lllt::UU::>t::IVt::l

page 4 Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
Non-smokers worry about health effects of secondhand smoke 
NEW YOHK (AP)-A majority from totally smoke-free envi­of American non-smokers say ronments will favor a ban," said they are worried about serious Diane Becker, director of the health consequences of other Johns Hopkins Center for people's cigarette smoke, and Health Promotion in Baltimore. favor a ban on smoking in public places, according to an "The public is clearly sensi­Associated Press poll. tized to the health effects of 
The poll found that 54 per­secondhand tobacco smoke. I cent of Americans -including don't think that was the case 59 percent of former smokers five years ago," said Scott and 70 percent of those who Ballin. a vice president of the never smoked regularly -fa­American Heart Association vored a complete ban on smok­and spokesman for the Coalition ing in public buildings. on Smoking or Health in 
Washington. The coalition is 
Past surveys indicate the fig­made up of the heart associa­ure would have been even tion, the American Cancer Soci­higher had non-smokers who ety and American Lung Associ­live with smokers been ex­ation. cluded, a researcher said. "About 90 percent of people Health advocates have pushed 
LaFortune was suggested so that competition would lower
HPC 
prices. Making use of Theodore's, which members 
continued from page 1 
called "useless space," was also 
science classes in which she urged. is the only female. "After pari­The existing meal plan, 21 etals, I have to go home and meals a week for all campus study alone," she said. residents, was regarded by HPC 
"They say it's a security issue. members as a waste of food It's not. They don't kick out and money. Rectors' arbitrary members of the same sex, only imposition of rules, such as the opposite sex," said Flanner fines for losing keys, was ques­president Richard Delevan. tioned as well. 
In response to Barrett's Other faults of campus life question, "How can we encour­according to the council in­age constructive entertainment cluded the red tape that stu­that does not include alcohol or dents must go through to plan violate parietals?" Council an activity, which council mem­members called for more bers believe discourages activi­"playing space," saying that the ties. Examples included the hoops in the bookstore parking fact that a dorm with 63% sup­lot are useless during the day port for an SYR was not al­when cars are parked there. lowed to have the dance be­
Allowing franchises to replace cause it did not reach the 70% the existing food services in minimum. 
The Freemantle campus of the University, where Notre




Australia 
Dame students will study, is lo­cated on the western coast of
continued from page 1 
Australia near the city of Perth.
new university and presently 
It opened in January of 1992 
serve on its board of trustees. 
with 75 students, and DavidO'Meara said working with 
Link, on leave as dean of thethe new university has been a 
Notre Dame Law School, is
"fascinating experience for all serving as president of the Uni­of us." 
versity.

He sees similarities between The foreign study program isthe schools in their "emphasis expected to be a learning expe­on residentiality, a more liberal rience both inside and outsideeducation for all, the emphasis 
the classroom. Charles said 
on theology and philosophy as a 
that she expects to include necessary part of that 
planned field trips in the course
education, the Catholic 
curriculum, but the details have 
ambience, and the stamp of 
not yet been worked out. 

having a Catholic charter." 
Charles said that the univer­sity "wants to be for Australia Gernes said that the program what Notre Dame is for the should be "a delightful oppor­United States, a private, tunity for the students to expe­Catholic university known for rience difference in a great its excellence in teaching and many ways. They'll be living in research." another land dominated by Pa­
The concept of a private uni­cific as much as Euro-American versity in Australia is a new life. one, and Notre Dame-Australia is one of the first. Other uni­The seasons will be reversed, veristies are state funded, but the flora and fauna is very O'Meara said that "people felt unique. aboriginal culture is that a certain alternative course still quite different, and I am was desirable . . . in which happy there will be some expo­values could be emphasized." sure for the students to it all." 
THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT 
PRESENTS 
HONORABLE ALEX KOZINSKI UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
ON "THE TOYOTA PRINCIPLE" 
THURSDAY, MARCH 26 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220 -LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
for laws restricting workplace smoking and have succeeded in many cities and towns. 
In Los Angeles Tuesday, the City Council, under pressure from restaurateurs, backed away from a proposed ban on smoking in restaurants. The council instead approved cut­ting the maximum size of smoking sections to 30 percent of tables by 1994. 
The AP poll found sentiment for a voluntary approach -63 percent said workers and their employers ought to decide whether to allow smoking, compared with 36 percent who thought a smoke-free work­place should be a legal right. 
Off-campus students argued that they feel ostracized by the administration, saying that they are not provided with security, financial support, or in­formation about campus events. 
The overall complaint was that students are not given rea­sons for the existing campus rules, which they believe do not recognize them as adults. 
Other announcements at the meeting included: 
•Domino's 
Pizza upcoming "Dorm Wars" pizza discount to give $1.00 to a dorm for every order made from its residents. 

•P.W. is the dorm of the year. 

•Sister 
Binder is the rector of the year. 

•HPC 
is sponsoring the People Auction at Theodore's, 7 p.m. Thursday evening. 


If what happened on your inside happened on your outside, would you still smoke? 

Brown is livid at being dismissed as a noisemaker 
NEW YORK (AP) -Jerry Brown turns livid at the notion he might be just a noisemaker, waging his angry Democratic presidential bid not with the aim of winning but with some other, unspoken goal in mind. 
"I am so tired of this," Brown snapped, practically shouting as his campaign van bumped along. "This doesn't look like somebody waging a protest, does it? I want to win the nomination. It's that simple." 
Down 7 -to-1 in the race for delegates, the former California governor said in an interview on the eve of Tuesday's Con­necticut primary that he's still in the race, with big primaries ahead in his home state as well as in New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio. 
Still, Brown sometimes sounds as if he may be thinking of some form of long-term movement, perhaps along the lines of Jesse Jackson's Rain­bow Coalition or Ralph Nader's consumer cause. 
"I will not be silenced. I will not be stopped until we, the American people, take back what is ours," Brown told a crowd at a recent rally in New Haven, Conn. 
Brown won't say if he'll keep crusading against big-money politics if Clinton wins the nomination. He is silent about any future plans. 
''I'm not going to talk about it when we haven't even got half the votes counted," Brown said. "The question is, is Bill Clinton going back to clean up all those rivers and streams in Arkansas?" 
Brown concedes he must win some big-state primaries, such as New York on April 7, which he called a "critical turning point" for his campaign. 
"We've got to start winning sooner or later. You guys won't talk to me as it is," Brown told reporters in New York, be­moaning what he calls his "black hole of media existence." 
"Can you believe this?" Brown said at one point, flip­ping through a Newsweek that featured Clinton on the cover and unable to find anything about himself. "Hmm. Well. the people won't be stopped by the media barons." 
Brown thinks New York is winnable in part because he has several labor endorsements, including one picked up Tuesday from the president of a 165,000-member Teamsters local. The state's Communications' Workers of America and Sheetmetal Workers are with him, too, and plan a huge labor rally for him next week in Tarrytown, N.Y. 


Notre Dame and St. Mary's Seniors are invited to 






The Senior Informal 
April 3, I992 
7:00 p.m. • I2 Midnight 
A Polish wedding banquet will be served. 
Two great campus bands -DissFunktion and Jasmine Groove will provide dance music all night long 
The Cost: $22.00 a couple, Sis.oo single 
The Venue: St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Avenue at Scott Street 
Tickets are available from the LaFortune Ticket Desk and must be purchased by March 30th. 
Sponsored by the Oil-campus CoaHtion lor QuaHty ol Ule 
For further Information contact: 
Mike Richardson Z7Z-6:J92 
Jim Mahony Z89-77:JfJ 
Tom McDermott Z:J9-7800 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
Russian nuclear reactor leaks radioactive gas 
MOSCOW (AP) --A Cher­nobyl-style nuclear power reac­tor near St. Petersburg leaked radioactive gas Tuesday, but Russian atomic energy officials said the small amount that escaped into the atmosphere posed no threat to the public. 
Despite the official assur­ances, some St. Petersburg res­idents took precautions, includ­ing keeping children indoors. 
Swedish experts who visited the Leningradskaya plant last year had urged it be closed im­mediately because of safety concerns. U.S. officials said Tuesday they remained worried about the safety of all Soviet­built nuclear plants. 
Since the Chernobyl disaster spewed radioactivity across Europe in 1986, serious ques­tions have been raised about aging and poorly designed re­actors, poor maintenance and operator errors at nuclear plants in the former Soviet Union. 
Despite those concerns, Rus­sia must rely heavily on its nine nuclear power plants because of persistent energy shortages. Three of the plants -with 11 reactors -share the same de­sign as the Chernobyl station. 
Russian officials said filters 
rendered the radioactive gases 
and iodine harmless Tuesday as 
they escaped from the reactor 
building. Soviet nuclear plants 
do not have sealed structures 
designed to contain leaks from 
reactors, which are mandatory 
in the United States and other 
nations. 
Yelena Miryushenko of the 
Russian Ministry of Atomic En­
ergy called the leak a "third­
class incident" on the seven-point International Atomic En­ergy Agency scale. The explo­sion and fire at Chernobyl in Ukraine rated seven, she said. 
The Vienna-based IAEA said later in a statement that Rus­sian authorities now rated the incident "at level two" on the agency's scale: "This would indicate that no significant levels of radiation exposure or contamination have occurred." 
Yuri Rogozhin of the State Atomic Security Commission said two fourth-class leaks oc­curred last year. 
Neighboring Finland has ap­pealed for international action to improve the safety of Russian nuclear plants. But the Finnish government said only one its monitoring statiens detected a "minute" rise in radiation at high altitudes Tuesday, while others registered no increases. 
"There is no danger at all," said Larisa Khudiokova, a mayoral spokeswoman in St. Petersburg, a city of 4.5 million people 50 miles east of the plant in Sosnovy Bor. 
Still, school officials ordered 
kindergartens to keep children 
indoors on Wednesday and ad­
vised parents to put iodine in 
their children's milk. The thy­
roid glands of young children 
are particularly vulnerable to 
radioactive iodine but can be 
made less susceptible with 
doses of normal potassium io­
dine. 

"Just to be on the safe side, I did not allow the kids to be taken outside in the afternoon and gave each half a pill of io­dine," said Olga Morozova, principal of Nursery School No. 2 in St. Petersburg. 
Happy Z:lst Birthday Jim Slover 

Love, Mom, Dad, Kathy, Colette, Brad, 
Gega 
Thinking of doing ayearof service? Howabout doingit 


for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
I II~ UU::;~I V~l 
page 5 


I
·~ 
··­
The Observer/A. Belanger 


Just a trim, please 
An ND student gets a haircut yesterday, at University Hairstylists in the basement of LaFortune. 
Shuttle mission examines ozone layer 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Atlantis roared into orbit with seven astronauts Tuesday on the first shuttle mission de­voted to the environment. The expedition should provide the most thorough look at Earth's atmosphere, including the fragile ozone layer. 
The crew quickly turned on the scientific equipment in the cargo bay and launched into more than a week's worth of research. One by one, the in­struments clicked on and began sending back data. 
Scientists on the ground were "quite happy, eager and ready to go to work," said Harry Craft, manager of NASA's pay­load project office. 
Atlantis rose from its seaside pad at 8:14 a.m., a little late because of low clouds over the emergency landing site at Kennedy Space Center. The twin solid rocket boosters resembled a falling star as they peeled away and dropped into the Atlantic. 


"It doesn't look much better than it did to me this morning," said NASA Administrator Richard Truly, who has re­signed under White House pressure. "It was a beautiful launch, and I was delighted to be down here for it." 
Dozens of Belgians gathered to see Atlantis off with the first Belgian to fly in space, Dirk Frimout. The spectators in­clud~d Princes Philippe and Laurent, nephews of Belgium's King Baudouin. 
The countdown -the second in two days -went exceedingly well. 
"It really had no training value because there were no problems to work," said launch director Bob Sieck. 
NASA's attempt to launch Atlantis on Monday was halted because of hydrogen and oxy­gen leaks that appeared in the 
IS GOD CALLING YOU TO THE: ~RMitLITUt­
-~ ~ .. ~ ...._.. ' 

engine compartment during fu­eling. Officials determined the leaks posed no threat. 
Astronaut David Leestma re­ported the external fuel tank was venting as it fell toward Earth. Mission operations di­rector Lee Briscoe said that while unusual, it caused no ma­jor concerns. 
The eight-day flight, com­manded by Charles Bolden Jr., is the first of 46 shuttle mis­sions to be dedicated to atmo­spheric research. All but one of the 13 scientific instruments in the cargo bay -an ultraviolet telescope to probe galaxies ­are studying Earth. 
Frimout and three other sci­entists aboard Atlantis will take turns operating two of the instruments, an electron beam gun for generating artificial auroras and a camera to record the atmosphere's colorful response to the beams. 
Ground controllers are managing the other instru­ments, most of which have flown in space before. 
Atlantis is being turned fre­
quently in orbit -about 180 
maneuvers are planned -to 
aim the instruments. About 200 
atmospheric research stations 
will make simultaneous obser­
vations. 
Scientists are especially inter­ested in the ozone layer, which is being eaten by manmade pol­lutants. The stratospheric layer protects Earth from dangerous ultraviolet rays. 
"It's surely on time that we do it now," Frimout said in a preflight interview. 

The I992-93 Sophomore Class Council is stiD accepting applications lor 
Dorm Representatives Committee Commissioners Chiel ol StaB Council Representatives 
Applications are now available in the Student Government O&ice. All applications are due THIS FRIDAY, MARCH 27 ATs:oo p.m. 
page b 1ne uoserver VVt:IUIIt:l::iUdy, IVIdll;ll <:0, I ':;1':;1<: 

Brown claims startling upset in Connecticut 
HAHTFORD, Conn. {AP) ­
Challenger Jerry Brown scored 
a startling upset over Bill Clin­
ton in the Connecticut presiden­
tial primary Tuesday night to 
slow the front-runner's march 
toward thB Democratic nomi­
nation. 
President Bush swept to He­
publican victory over dormant 
rival Patrick Buchanan and the 
nagging protest votB. He said 
the victory added to his opti­
mism in "a screwy year." 
The Democratic verdict, a 1­point victory for Brown, sur­prisingly stalled the Clinton campaign despite the Arkansas governor's claim that he'd ex­pected a tight contest. 
Turnout was low in the three­man count: Brown, 37 percent, Clinton 36 percent and former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas, who quit the cam­paign, 20 percent. 
The Connecticut upset in­stantly raised the stakes in the New York primary, the next major contest, two weeks away. Clinton can't afford more trou­ble there. 
Clinton called Connecticut "a small setback." Brown de­scribed it as "a shocking upset" that would propel his anti­establishment campaign. He said Clinton doesn't own the Democratic nomination, the people do. 
Brown said he'd won Con­necticut because "people want change, I'm a vehicle for that. 
.. 
"This thing is now coming to New York and this will be the battle of where the party's go­ing," Brown said in New York. 
Brown said he'd been doubted, ignored and ridiculed for his anti-establishment cam­paign, but "it's going to grow, there's a momentum." He took the victory occasion to get in another televised plug for $100 pledges to his toll-free, fund­raising 800-number. 
For all that, Clinton still holds a commanding delegate lead of more than 6 to 1 over Brown. He was winning 22 delegates to Brown's 21 in Connecticut, under an apportionment system based on congressional district vote shares. Tsongas took 10. 
Democratic National Chair­man Ronald Brown said Clinton is still on track toward the nomination. "It's not over 'til it's over, but I don't see anything in the results today that dislodges Bill Clinton from what appears to be a path toward the nomination," Brown said. 
"We had a small setback in Connecticut tonight," Clinton told a New York City rally. "What it tells us is that the people of this country do not want this process to be over and we don't want it to be over, either." 
He said he'd always expected the competition to go on until June 2, when New Jersey and California hold the last major primaries. 
Clinton's remarks put the best face on the unexpected outcome, but the mission of any presidential campaign is to foreclose the process by win­ning it as swiftly as possible. 
Brown, asked whether he had slowed Clinton's campaign, said, "The people have slowed it down." 
With 100 percent of the precincts counted in the Demo­cratic primary, it was: 
Brown 63,624 or 37 percent. 
Clinton 60,894 or 36 percent. 
Tsongas 33,493 or 20 per­cent. 
Judge approves refunds to deceived Milli Vanilli fans 
CHICAGO (AP) -A judge ap­proved partial refunds Tuesday for people who bought Milli Vanilli recordings or attended concerts believing that the lip­synching pop duo were actually singing. 
Los Angeles-based Arista Records Inc. and its parent company, Bertelsmann AG of Germany, will have to pay more than $400,000 based on the settlement terms and the num­ber of claims already filed. 
Lawyers for both sides said about 80,000 claims have been filed, most of them by pur­chasers of compact discs. Arista also agreed to donate $250,000 to eharities. 
The settlement approved by Judg(l Thomas O'Brien came in a lawsuit filed by a Cook County resident. Michael Siegel. His is the first lawsuit to reach this stage. 
Arista lawyers said at least 15 lawsuits are pending by people claiming the Los Angeles-based reeord company intentionally deceived people into thinking Milli Vanilli members Fab Morvan and Rob Pilatus sang the lyrics on the best-selling "Girl You Know It's True" album. 
The Chicago settlement won't automatically dispose of those but Arista lawyers have said they will ask other eourts to abide by it. 
Under the settlement, Arista and Bertelsmann Music Group will offer a $1 refund on Milli Vanilli singles, $2 on cassettes and albums and $3 on compact discs to fans who submit a bar­code identification tag from merchandise purchased before Nov. 27, 1990. Also, consumers who bought tickets for Milli Vanilli concerts before that date will be entitled to refunds of 5 percent. not to exceed $2.50. 
~-~ 
'lj)l..-....r.t ~c';:;;\__ --~ · 
·2_1 ur 1e • _ /reef{_ 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts_ 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
272-8124 
The Observer/J. Novak 
Sailing away 

The NO sailing club takes advantage of a surprisingly beautiful Tuesday afternoon and practices some new techniques on Saint Joseph's lake. 
Rushdie fears world is losing interest 
ARLINGTON, Va. (AP)-Au­Muslim faith. thor Salman Rushdie, a million­"I am no longer certain of the dollar bounty on his head, commitment of the British gov­
emerged from hiding Tuesday night to salute the publication of "The Satanic Verses" in pa­perback and to suggest that he fears the world was losing in­terest in protecting him. 
Rushdie addressed a Freedom Forum conference in this Washington suburb on barriers to free expression. The occasion was the second visit he has made to America since the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in 1989 denounced his book and offered $1 million to anyone who would assassinate its au­thor. Rushdie has lived in hiding ever since. 
The Japanese translator of the book was murdered last year and the Italian translator was severely wounded in at­tacks suspected of resulting from the Iranian decree calling for slaying the writer of a novel deemed "blasphemous" to the ernment to the task of protect­ing me," Rushdie said. 

"I do not say this lightly," he added, but offered no evidence on which he based his conclu­sion. He has been under 24­hour guard in Britain and has been moved periodically from one safe house to another. 
The printed invitation re­ceived in the mail by the audi­ence of 250 listed CBS newsman Mike Wallace as the evening's speaker. Most of the guests did not know that Rushdie would appear, although some said there had been rumors over the last few days. 
Wallace spoke, but only to in­troduce Rushdie. A door swung opened, and the bearded 44­year-old Rushdie, wearing a rumpled maroon jacket, passed through. The audience of jour­nalists and educators rose to its feet. 
If You Blink, You'll Miss The Big NeXT™ Sale. 

Guests were required to pro­vide identification and pass through metal detectors. Around the room, guards eyed the audience while Rushdie spoke. 
But the author appeared at ease. He spoke for nearly an hour and made an occasional joke about his situation. 
"Well, thanks for the infor­mation." he said drily when a questioner who identified him­self as a Pakistani told Rushdie that it was not only Iranians but Muslims the world over who were eager to kill him. 
But the difference, Rushdie said, was that while many Mus­lims would like to see him dead, Iran's standing offer of $1 mil­lion for his assassination ­reiterated just a month ago ­constituted "state-sponsored professional terrorism.... ter­rorism by remote control, ter­rorism by edict and bounty." 

Nearly 40% saving before March 31! 
Admittedly: we're not giving you a lot of time. On the oth­e r h a n d • ,we re g I vI n g You o n e of t h e most extraord 1 n a r yd eals you II ever see: Purchase a NeXTstatlonrM Color computer. with 17-or 21­1nch Color Display and 400 dpl NeXT™ Laser Printer by March 
3 

1st. and get nearly 40% off the list price 
Of course. even •at full price. the NeXTstatlon Color com­puter offers more than any other machine In Its class· 16-blt color. 15 MIPS. standard UNIX™. 16MB of RAM. co-'quallty sound, vast storage, true multitasking and the Industry's 
only true object oriented system software 
v.;~th ~ver 30 bundled applications. lncl~dlng Mathematl­ca · Its perfect for statistical analysis, In depth report writing. mathematics or any use that demands true-to-life­
color. And with hundreds of off-the-shelf applications to ch~~se ~rom, like WordPerfert™. Lotus™ lmprovrM and Soft­PC • 1t s a perfect productivity machine as well. 
Visit the Notre Dame Computer Resale Center! 
~1992.Ndl'CotrepU~er,IN:.. AU riJiatanWd. Ndl'.lheNdTID,o..JNeXT1141ioltonll'alkmtubo{NJTC~ IN: UNIX" • trfiakred tmdt:nuui ofUNlX Sy11eru ~...Db.. Mttdtmtollca U" rqUkreti ~ofMbljn.n Reururh.. AU oJNr lrotkrrwrb mmrit»ted brlmrzlo Wirnt3ptrliw ~1¥. 

TM 

-----~---------­
Wednesday, Marcn 2o, 1992 1 ne Observer page t 
UN team blows up leaking chemical weapons in Iraq 
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP) -A team of U.N. weapons experts made a surprise inspection in Saddam Hussein's hometown Tuesday, and another returned from Iraq after beginning the task of destroying Iraq's arsenal of chemical arms. 
Derek Boothby, head of a bal­listics missile inspection unit, said from Baghdad that his team visited "a large military establishment" they knew ex­isted in Takrit, Saddam's hometown. 
"We just did one of these warehouse-by-warehouse and bunker-by-bunker searches and didn't discover any (illicit) items," Boothby told The Asso­ciated Press by satellite tele­phone. 
The missile inspectors are part of the United Nations effort to destroy all of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction under terms of the Gulf War cease-fire 13 months ago. 
That effort took a new twist last week when Baghdad ­after months of spotty compli­ance with the U.N. rules ­promised full compliance, say­ing it had destroyed many Scud missiles and buried the re­mains. 
The other U.N. team, com­posed of chemical weapons ex­perts, returned to Bahrain Tuesday after blowing up 463 dangerous, leaking nerve gas rockets that had been bombed by coalition forces during the Gulf War. 
The team was the first to un­dertake the task of destroying Iraq's vast arsenal of chemical weapons under provisions of the Security Council resolution that ended the war more than a year ago. 
Destroying the arsenal, which consists mainly of some 40,000 loaded missiles, artillery shells and bombs at the Muthana weapons facility near Baghdad, is a process that could last until 1993, the experts say. 
Other U.N. teams will deal with smaller sites around the country, such as the one just cleared at Khamissiya in the southern Iraqi marshlands near the city of Nassariya, 250 miles south of the capital. 
"The Iraqis themselves can only be too happy to get rid of that contaminated stuff," said Michel Desgranges, leader of the 26-member team. 
Libya may surrender suspects 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Arab League envoys arrived in Libya on Tuesday to meet with Col. Moammar Gadhafi and co­ordinate the surrender of the two Libyan suspects in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing. 
The Security Council presi­dent said he expected swift de­livery of the two Libyans for trial in the United States or Britain. But the Bush adminis­tration contended Libya was stalling, and demanded that it put in writing its offer to give up the suspects. Late Tuesday it added that Libya must sever all ties with terrorist groups. 
"We are looking for action, not words," the State Depart­ment said. It said several ter­rorist groups, including the Abu Nidal organization, train in Libya. 
The Arab League delegation that went to Libya comprised league secretary-general Esmat Abdel-Maguid of Egypt and en­voys from Syria, Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco and Mauritania. 
Libya offered on Monday to turn the suspects over to the Arab League. Its plan was an attempt to avoid a new Security Council resolution imposing an arms embargo, cutting off its air routes and urging other countries to eject most Libyan diplomats. 
The offer won Libya a brief respite from council action ­very brief, diplomats said. 
U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering said he will renew his push to have the council adopt the resolution by the end of the week if the Libyans, indicted by the United States and Britain, are not extradited. He said the Libyan offer "seems to be more of a stall than a compliance." 
He said Libya still has to comply with the French re­quest, provide all evidence it has on the bombings, end its support of terrorism and promise to compensate the families of victims. 
"I hope they're not simply wasting the Security Council's time, I think it would be a great pity if they were," said British Ambassador David Hannay. 
At the White House, press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said Tuesday that "We still think the case should be prosecuted un­der the judicial procedures we set up in our original indict­ment." 
Asked whether there are any positive benefits to Libya's offer, Fitzwater said, "At the moment it's questionable." 
Diplomats stressed Tuesday they had no news of the sur­render of the two suspects, Ab­del Megrahi, 39, and Lamen Fhimah, 35. They also said there had been no written con­firmation from Libya that it would turn the men over, as Libya's U.N. ambassador pledged Monday. 
The Security Council presi­dent, Venezuelan Ambassador Diego Arria, said the Arab League representative assured him the men would be turned over promptly, but he added, "I don't know what shape or form the delivery will take, if it takes effect." 
Arria and the French ambas­sador told reporters they antic­ipated the Arab League delega­tion would take custody of the two men. 
But State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said that "Arab League action is not an alternative to full compliance with the terms of the Security Council resolution." 
The United States and Britain seek extradition of the two for the 1988 bombing over Locker­hie, Scotland. France seeks four others for bombing a French airliner over Africa in 1989. A total of 441 people died in the attacks. 

The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 

Trade in the Pacific Rim 

future impacts on trade and Hesburgh Center for trade relations in aforum 

International Studies
among students, faculty, and business experts. 

some Peoplecommit Child Abuse Be1ore Their Child Is Even Born. 
Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Conunittee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame conununity or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associatiOns. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director of Notre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. The first winner, last year, was Maureen Gleason, Deputy Director of the University Libraries. All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty are eligible. Please send names of nominees to the Reverend Paul J. 
Foik Award Conunittee, c/o University Libraries, 221 Hesburgh Library, before April 6. 



----r----~-­
------~--------~-------­
page tl 
Mexico City needs to clean air 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Des­perate to reduce smog in o':'~ of the world's most polluted cities, the president gave companies an ultimatum on Tuesday: clean up or pack up. . 
President Carlos deGortan said the more than 30,000 in­dustries in and around Mexico City have 18 months to signifi­cantly cut pollution. P~ants t~at don't install clean-air eqUip­ment will have to leave the mountain-rimmed valley. 
"This is a formidable step and 
1 want evidence of im­
provement in ~he n~x~ six 
months," he told mdustnahsts. 
Mexico City has been under a 
smog alert for a week following 
record pollution readings. The 
government forced businesses 
and factories to cut back oper­
ations and kept thousands of 
cars off the streets in the 
metropolis of more than 16 mil­
lion people. 
Air pollution is especially se­
rious in Mexico City because of 
the surrounding mountains, 
which trap smog and block 
winds. Salinas said $300 million in 
loans would be available to anti-pollution measures by companies -which belch more than 4.3 million tons of pollu­tants into the thin, mile-high 
air every year. 
The plan seeks to reducing emissions from 220 of the dirt­iest plants by 90 percent within 18 months. Other plants must 
cut output by 50 percent. 
Salinas also demanded an­nual emission inspections starting in July and an overall reduction in industrial energy consumption of 5 percent. 
"We need clean industry that helps reduce pollution. The bat­tle for a better quality of life is everyone's," he said. 
But Mayor Manuel Solis pre­dicted the worst polluters would opt to leave the valley, which has everything from chemical and cement plants to paper and textile factories. 
The mood in the capital has grown apocalyptic, with ~ca­demics, environmentalists, politicians and ordinary citi­zens saying the city may be doomed. 
Guatemalan Imports 

-New shipment 
from Guatemala -Bargain corner -Silk clothing 
from india 
-Raffie for chance to win $60 in merchandise 
(Proceeds go to Cooperative/Clinic in Metzecal, Guatemala) 
Rm 108 LaFortune 
Wednesday, March ~!>. 1~~~ 
1he uoserver 

Alzheimer patient is found abandoned at race track 
out of a nursing home SaturdayPOST FALLS, Idaho (AP) -An morning, Hayes said. 

Alzheimer's patient abandoned The case is being reviewed byat a dog-racing track has been the Kootenai County prosecutor, 
identified as a retired auto but there is apparently nocompany worker whose 
Idaho law covering abandon­daughter checked him out of an ment of an adult, Hayes said. 

Oregon nursing home last 
Kingery is staying at t~e

weekend, police said Tuesday. 
Kootenai Medical Center Ill

John Kingery, 84, was left Coeur d'Alene, 10 miles east ofbehind at the Coeur d'Alene Post Falls in Idaho's panhandle. 
Greyhound Park on Saturday Among the calls to the hospitalnight with a bag of diapers and was one from an Illinois Sunday a note identifying him as an 
school teacher whose class

Alzheimer's patient. His plight planned to send cards, Regan
elicited hundreds of calls from people as far away as Europe 
said. Detectives were trying to findoffering care, advice and cloth-out how the man got from Ore­

ing_ .. 
gon to Idaho, and who removed 

"There's not many families labels from his clothes andthat haven't been touched by wrote a partially inaccurate
Alzheimer's," said Mike Regan, 
note that was taped to hisspokesman at the hospital 

wheelchair, Hayes said. 

where Kingery is being looked 
Gifford, who works at a

after. "People understand. 
Portland ink company, told The

They're coming out of the 
Associated Press on Tuesdaywoodwork." 
that "I put him in with HegencyPolice Chief Cliff Hayes said Care Center. I don't understandofficials of two Portland, Ore., 

what's going on here."

nursing homes where the man had stayed in recent weeks 
Asked whether she knew how called to identify him after see­her father got to Idaho, Giffording his picture on a television said, "not for sure" but addednews program Monday. . 

she "maybe" had a good ideaDetectives hoped to talk With

Phillip Grossett lectures yesterday on ''Rossini at 200-Some how it occurred. She declined to
the man's daughter, Sue Gifford Bicentennial Reflections_" elaborate.
of Portland, who checked him 
A reflecting lecture 

cearance. 
ust 


one Y.'a); ba.'<:d 
on round-tdl" 
purcluse ro London. 

Attentions shoppers. During our incredible spring sale, you c:an see the best of Britain for the best of pric:es-just $224* one way, based on round·trip purc:hase to London. Simply purchase your ticket by March 3I, for travel Monday through Thursday commencing April I through June I4, I992, and September I through September 30, I992· And, if you're looking ahead this 
summer, you will find plenty of summer bargain affairs also. Of course, you'll receive the complementary headsets, free drinks, classic cuisine, and exceptional service that British Airways is famous for. So call your travel agent or British Airways at I·80o-AIRWAYS today. But don't delay. After all, if you're shopping for bargains this spring, wouldn't you rather do it in London? 
• Fare does not include $18 agricultural, c:ulltolllll and Immigration fees. and international departure tall. 
BRITISH AIRWAYS 
1l1 worldE favourite airline.•7 
TERMS U CONDinoNS : Fare Basis VOXABES. Fare required round trip purchaH. AppUcable for travel commencing 4·1-9% through &-JJ-9% and 9-1-92 through 9-:J0-9Z only. Travel &-15-92 through 11-:JI-9% slightly higher. Travel must be completed by IO.:J0-92. Minimum stay: 7 days 1 Maximum stay: :JO days or return by IO.:J0-9Z, whichever oc:c:urs first. Travel permitted Monday through Thursday, travel permitted other days of the week at additional c:harge. Travel permltted behveen Detroit and London on British Airways services only. Stop overs are perndtted.. Reservations and ticket issue mun be completed at leart 14 days prior to departure or before ~:J:I-9%, whJchever occurs first. Outbound retervatlons may not be changed, return 
reservations may be changed for a fee of $100. Fare is non-refundable once ticket& are Issued. Fare may be combined with preseason sale on B.A. land 
pacuges. Unleu specifically permitted In written promotional material luued by British Airways, this promotion may not be c:ombined with any 
other fare or special promot:lonal oiier, past, present, or luture. Frequent Hyer mileage aW'ards may not be redeemed in conjunc:tion with this 
program. Children, Privileged Traveler and other discounts Rot permitted. Thl• lare may not be available on all Dl&ht.s, and may not be available when 
Mon-Sat March 23-28 
10-5 pm 

you call. Fares are subject to chanee without notice and are subject to Government Approvals. 

Wednesday, March 2!:>, 1~~2 1he Ubserver page 9 
Presley doctor is newly accused 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) -The physician acquitted in 1981 of giving too many drugs to Elvis Presley is accused anew of writing too many prescriptions for his patients. 
Dr. George Nichopoulos, 64, faces a hearing May 19 before the Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners, board attorney Alan Foster said Tuesday. The new allegations have nothing to do with Presley. 
The board suspended Ni­chopoulos' medical license for three months in 1980 for over­prescribing drugs for Presley and nine other patients. 
But on similar criminal charges, Nichopoulos was ac­quitted in federal court the fol­lowing year. He argued success­fully then that he prescribed thousands of doses of uppers, downers and narcotics for Presley to keep the king of rock 'n' roll from buying street drugs. 
Presley died in 1977 at age 42. 
Nichopoulos now is accused of writing questionable pre­scriptions for drugs including tranquilizers to 24 patients over the past 3 1/2 years. 
"We received an anonymous tip and the investigation began right after that," Foster said from his office in Nashville. 
A receptionist at Nichopoulos' office in Memphis said he was busy and unavailable for com­ment. 
The medical board can sus­pend or revoke a doctor's med­ical license for prescription vio­lations and assess penalties up to $1,000 per violation. Ni­chopoulos is accused of unethi­cal conduct, malpractice and negligence. 
The allegations are adminis­trative and don't involve crimi­nal charges. 
Presley's death has been the subject of much debate. Mem­bers of the medical team that performed his autopsy ac­knowledged in 1990 that Pres­ley was addicted to prescription medications and his death may have been hastened by "polypharmacy," a reaction to mixing many drugs. 
A biochemist testified at Ni­chopoulos' trial that Presley's body contained some 14 drugs, including various painkillers and depressants. The witness said he couldn't be sure of the number of drugs because some of them, mixed together, form other compounds. 



MELISSA ETHERIDGE 
NEVER 
ENOUGH 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
..on the campus.. 

The Observer/J. Novak 

Speaking about the University 
Alejandro Llano lectures about "The University and Unity of Life." 
THESE GREAT MELISSA ALBUMS ON SALE TOO! 
CD9.99 TAPE 7.99 
MEim\ETIIERmGE 
BRAVE AND CRAZY 
CD9.99 TAPE5.99 
PRICES EXPIRE 04/02/92 
Q 
ISLAND 
PolyGram Label Group l 



. 

Wednesday, March 25, 1992
page 1o The Observer 
An open letter from Joseph Blanco 
Members of the Notre Dame Community, 
I want to share with the Notre Dame Community an article 
y David Lutz, a graduate student in philosophy. This piece ppeared in the contemporary periodical, First Things in January. 
The article poses some very interesting questions that do not /ways receive the attention they warrant. Whether or not I personally agree with every point made by 
r. Lutz is less important than the urgent need for a ommunity-wide discussion of the issues he has so clearly put orth. We need to determine whether our goal is to be a great 
atholic University or merely a University for Catholics. We 
ust ensure that our every action reflects our best intentions. 
Will we, like so many other great experiments in higher ducation gone before us, be unable to resist the temptation to imply imitate those purely secular institutions we currently implicitly or explicitly) use as our models or guides? Father orin raised Our Lady on top of the Dome to be a permanent eminder to all of us that our success is rooted in following a set f standards that ties outside, and sometimes even in sharp pposition to, the contemporary American liberal context. In ontrast, today's university administration feels it necessary to aise wooden signs notifying the public that we have become "A 
ational Catholic Research University," a claim as false as it is 
nwanted. 
I believe the University is at a crossroads. We must dearly efine what path we wish to follow. Secularization is not our only hoice, but I am convinced that we have unwillingly strayed onto hat path. This has resulted because those of us who are ommitted to Notre Dame's unique Catholic character are silent. 
Without serious reflection and clear commitment to engage our atholic identity we will wake up in the not too distant future nd find ourselves somewhere where very few members of the otre Dame community wish to be. 
-Joseph 0. Blanco 
Student Body President 

Can Notre Dame be saved? 
David W. Lutz 
I am a member of the United Methodist Church and a 
raduate student of philosophy at the University of Notre arne. One might ask why a United Methodist would go to Roman Catholic university to study philosophy. The nswer is, I am at Notre Dame because I cannot study hilosophy at a Methodist university. There no longer are ny. All that remains is a collection of secular universities 
hat were originally founded by Methodist as Christian niversities. The list includes some whose Methodist istory is indicated by their names, such as Wesleyan and 
uthem Methodist. But it also includes a number of 
chools whose Methodist heritage is unknown even to ost Methodists: Emory, Duke, Boston University, orthwestem, Syracuse, Vanderbilt, and the University of 
uthem California. Some of these universities still have rganizational ties to the United Methodist Church, but hey are Christian in name only. 
I am not the only Protestant in Notre Dame's hilosophy Department. Approximately one-third of the raduate students now studying philosophy at Notre arne are Protestants who decided to study here rather 
han elsewhere because of the Christian reputation of Notre arne's Philosophy Department. The Department's 
acuity includes not only several of the best Catholic hilosophers in the country, but also several of the best rotestant philosophers as well. No other philosophy 
acuity approaches Notre Dame's in combining high 
tandards of academic excellence with commitment both to hristianity and to a belief in the philosophic importance f Christian faith-whether Catholic or Protestant. 
I am concerned, however, that the process of ecularization that removed the Methodist universities and, efore them, most of the Ivy League schools from the ranks f Christian academic institutions is now selling in at Notre 
arne. After all, the Methodist schools did not become ost-Christian overnight. They abandoned their hristianity gradually, as a result of many decisions made y many people over a period of decades. There are 
'ndications that Notre Dame is heading down the same rail. At the inaugural Mass of Notre Dame's 1954-55 cadernic year, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh said, "Here is an postolate that no secular university today can 
ndertake--for they are largely cut off from the tradition of dequate knowledge which comes only through faith in the ind and faith in God, the highest wisdom of Christian hilosophy and Catholic theology." In the 1990s, however, he challenge is to prevent Notre Dame from becoming erely one more secular university. Part of the problem facing Notre Dame is that there are 
ople there who are embarrassed by the fact that it is a atholic university and are working to hasten the day hen it no longer is. But it is not actually these who pose 
he greatest threat to the Catholic identity of the University. he real danger comes from a much larger group of ersons who believe that Notre Dame can strive for ever­igher standards of academic excellence--and use the 
same criteria of excellence by which the best secular 
universities in the land are judged to be excellent-without 
forfeiting the Catholic character of the University. 
Some of those who believe that Notre Dame could never 
cease to be Catholic are not at all surprised that the 
Protestant schools have lost their Christian identity. But 
what are the relevant differences? One difference is simply 
that many of the Protestant universities are older than 
Notre Dame and have thus had more time to undergo 
erosion. Another important difference is that, at least until 
recently, Catholic universities have done a better job of 
resisting the pressure to adopt liberalism as their governing 
philosophy. 
The influence of liberalism on America's Christian 
universities has been two fold: first, it has led to the 
rejection of the belief that there is·one correct conception of 
the human good and one correct way to pursue human 
happiness; and second, it has led to acceptance of the belief 
that government should be concerned with ensuring a 
context within which individuals can pursue their various 
freely chosen goods and adjudicating the dispute when one 
person's pursuit of happiness conflicts with another's, but 
not with telling people how best to pursue their happiness. 
At a point in history when the bankruptcy of Communism 
is no longer deniable, we need to be more alert than ever to 
the vices of liberal democracy. In a fallen, sinful world, 
liberal democracy may be the best alternative for 
structuring political institutions, but it is not our best 
option for structuring Christian churches and universities. 
From my perspective as an outsider on the inside, it appears that many of the problems within the Catholic Church in the United States today are related to the attempt by American Catholics to apply the political system of their government to their Church. I invite all Roman Catholics who would like to belong to a more democratic church to become United Methodists. 
The Protestant emphasis on the need for a personal relationship with God, if not balanced by an emphasis on the need to belong to a community of others who are also rightly related to God, can lead to an excessively individualistic understanding of human society. There are clear historical relationships between the Protestant Reformation, the rejection of the Thomistic understanding of the common good, and the growth of liberal democracy. And nowhere is that more true than in this country. The birth of Metodisrn as a Protestant denomination, distinct from the Church of England, was closely related to the American Revolution. We severed our ties not only with the King of England but also with the Archbishop of Canterbury. And the organization of the new church was influenced by that of the new government 
Today most Methodists neither know nor care what their bishops believe about morality and all are free to attempt by democratic methods to change any of the church's moral positions they do not like. Every presidential election year we have our own political convention to determine democratically what will be right and wrong for the next four years. At the 1988 General Conference of the United Methodist Church in St. Louis, legislation affirming that "we do not condone the practice of homosexuality and consider 
this practice incompatible with Christian teaching" was adopted by a 765-181 vote of the delegates. The gay rights lobby was unsuccessful-for now. What was most significant about this vote, however, is not that a moral position inconsistent with Christian Scripture and nearly two millennia of Christian Tradition was defeated overwhelmingly, but rather that the question was even brought up for a vote in the first place. 
The reason liberal democracy may be appropriate for our civil society is that as a pluralistic society, we have little hope of reaching complete agreement concerning the human good and the proper way to pursue happiness. But among Christians, there ought to be good reason to hope we can agree on the main points, if not in every detail, about what constitutes the good and how we should pursue happiness. All Christians are called to holiness. Having that much in common is infinitely more significant than any differences in our understanding of that call. 
There is an historical, although not a necessary logical, relationship between liberal democracy and the moral anarchy of contemporary America. The step from "we. should all be free to decide what is good for us" to "what we decide is good for us " is an all too easy one to take. So is the step from "there is no good common to everyone" to "there is no good." We have transferred the beliefs and practices of liberalism not only from the political realm to the ecclesiastical, but also to the moral. The result is the combination of ethical subjectivism, relativism, ernotivisrn, and nihilism so much in fashion in Western democracies today. (Of course, one cannot consistently be a subjectivist, a.relavist, an ernotivist, and a nihilist; but it is also fashionable today to be unconcerned about logical consistency in matters of religion and morality.) 
As American Catholics bring liberalism into their Church and academic institutions, they bring with it the moral confusion that usually accompanies it. Perhaps simply noting that the absence of moral authority was once considered deplorable can help us understand how far we 
have regressed. At least one description of ancient Israel 
sounds very much like modem America: "In those days 
there was no king in Israel; everyone did what was right in 
his own eyes" (Judges 17:6, 21:25). 
A battle for the soul of the University of Notre Dame is 
being waged, then, between traditional Christians and 
people whose Weltanschauung is rooted primarily in the 
Enlightenment. I will use "secular humanism" as a label for 
the post-Enlightenment, nontheistic faith of the large and 
growing number of Westerners who have abandoned 
Judaism or Christianity without adopting another species 
of organized religion. Although "secular humanism" is a ·term used most frequently by Protestant Fundamentalists, it was Justice Hugo Black-in delivering the opinion of the United States Supreme Court in a 1961 case, Torcaso v. Watkins, who distinguished between "religions based on a belief in the existence of God" and "religions founded on different beliefs," such as "Buddhism, Taoism, Ethical Culture, Secular Humanism and others." In 1980 Paut Kurtz, a SUNY-Buffalo philosopher, published a "Secular Humanist Declaration," which was signed by a number of prominent scholars. In the Introduction to his Declaration, Kurtz shows an understanding of the relationships among secular humanism and the Enlightenment, (liberal) democracy, and the Catholic Church: 
Secularism and humanism were eclipsed in Europe during the Dark Ages, when religious piety eroded humankind's confidence in its own powers to solve human problems. They reappeared in force during the Renaissance ... and their influence can be found in the eighteenth century in the Age of Reason and the Enlightenment. Democratic secular humanism has creatively flowered in modem times with the growth of freedom and democracy... Regrettably, we are today faced with a variety of anti-secularist trends: the reappearance of dogmatic authoritarian religions; fundamentalist, literalist, and doctrinaire Christianity ... the reassertion of orthodox authority by the Roman Catholic papal hierarchy ... 
To see how far down the path to secular humanism the University of Notre Dame has already traveled, one need only read the official statements made about the University by its administrators. The term "values" appears frequently in these statements. For example, the 1990-91 edition of the University's Fact Sheet, a widely distributed, six-panel brochure, includes the following passage: "Notre Dame has a unique spirit. It is traditional yet open to change. It is dedicated to religious belief no less than scientific knowledge. It has always stood for values in a world of fact. It has kept faith with Father Sorin's vision." I seriously doubt that Fr. Sorin-the founder of the University-ever envisioned a dichotomy between value and fact. It would be difficult to imagine a vision further removed from the Roman Catholic moral tradition. 
Among the philosophers whose works contain the seeds of this dichotomy is David Hurne: "If we take in our hand any volume--of divinity or school metaphysics, for instance--let us ask, Does it contain any abstract reasoning concerning quantity or number? No. Does it contain any experimental reasoning concerning matter of fact and existence? 
No. Commit then to the flames; for it can contain nothing but sophistry and illusion." 
The clearest-and therefore most clearly absurd­articulation of this dichotomy in its fully developed form is given by another British philosopher, A. J. Ayer: 'Since the expression of a value judgment is not proposition, the question of truth or falsehood does not here arise .... In saying that a certain type of action is right or wrong, I am not making any factual statement." Not surprisingly, Ayer was one of the signers of Paul Kurtz's "Secular Hurnanis 
Declaration." 
C.S. Lewis' recognition of a fact-value dichotomy within an argument against ethical subjectivism in The Abolition of Man has no doubt contributed something to the frequency with which "values" is used by both Catholics and Protestants who want to defend "traditional values." But Christians should never accept a dichotomy between facts and values. To say, for example, that Hitler and Stalin were evil men or that we should work to relieve the suffering of the poor is both to make a value judgment and to state a fact. Many people would no doubt disagree; but how could a Christian do so? 
My point in calling attention to use of the term "values" in Notre Dame documents is not to criticize the anonymous author of a public relations brochure, but rather to point out the depth of the confusion concerning ethics at Notre Dame today. Thisis more than an issue of technical terminology. The leaders of the University pride themselves on the fact that "we believe in values." The implication is that p~rsons at secular-humanist universities do not. But of course everyone has ethical beliefs and every university offers ethics courses. To the extent that there is 
· ·'• .., ..................... -.·••••-tat...•••••••·--,.,.......,.,..,....,., ................................, 
--------~------­
---~-----­
.. 'Wednesday, March 25, 1992 

The Observer page 11 
any s1gm icant mora at 1t means to attam 

non-Christian universities, it is not that Notre Dame "believes in values" and the others do not, but rather that 
our values are different from theirs. Our objective should 
be not merely to teach values, but to teach values radically 
different from and superior to those taught at secular 
universities. 
But, of course, we cannot say that Christian values (or virtues) are better than, for example, Kurtz's "democratic secular humanist values" unless we believe ethical statements are factual statements and are either true or false. And it is far from clear that those who administer or teach at Notre Dame believe that. In fact, the school is home to a large, though shrinking, group of people who hold traditional Catholic beliefs on specific issues such as abortion and euthanasia, but who at the same time hold many beliefs about ethics that are indistinguishable from the subjectivism, relativism, emotivism, and nihilism of secular America. 
Despite the tendency at Notre Dame toward self­congratulation about commitment to values, undergraduates are not even required to take an ethics course. There is more emphasis on community service than on classroom instruction-an emphasis entirely consistent with the belief widely accepted in our society that values, while they may be created and clarified, can be neither true nor false. If there is no fact of the matter, there is little point in assigning ethics a central role in the formal curriculum. Notre Dame deserves praise for the many opportunities it gives students to volunteer their time. But to understand moral education primarily in terms of extracurricular activities is to reject the Catholic moral tradition and to adopt the model someone has called "value-added education." The difference between a Catholic university and a secular-humanist university with a Newman Center should be more than a difference of scale. 
The gap between the rhetoric and the reality of ethics education at Notre Dame is qualitative as well as quantitative. Not only are there fewer ethics courses than the value-talk would suggest, but little attention is paid to which values are taught. Some of the ethics courses offered at Notre Dame are consistent with Catholic moral teachings and some are not: to maintain that certain moral theories are better than others might offend someone. This diversity is in keeping with the liberal doctrine that all values are created equal. But liberalism is not really neutral with regard to all values. Those who tell us that morality is relative are usually quick to add that, because morality is relative, we should tolerate those whose moral beliefs differ from our own. There are some moral absolutes after all. In our attempt to be committed to ethics without being narrow-minded concerning whose ethics we are committed to, we have actually replaced the four cardinal virtues of prudence, justice, fortitude, and temperance with the four cardinal values of openness, equality, tolerance, and diversity. 
To suggest that there should be standards of quality control for ethics courses at a Catholic university is, of course, to enter the debate concerning "academic freedom." I am no opponent of academic freedom; but I believe Christians should not let civil libertarians and secular humanists decide for us what it means to be free. I find it incredible that a commitment to Christianity is supposed to be irrelevant to an understanding of academic freedom.The well-known distinction between negative and positive freedom is helpful at this point. Negative freedom is freedom from restraint; positive freedom is freedom to pursue a worthwhile objective. It is the distinction made, mutatis mutandis, in biblical passages such as Romans 6:16­
23. We can choose between freedom from divine authority and freedom with regard to righteousness. In neither case are we absolutely free. To be free from God's authority is to be a slave to sin. To be free with regard to righteousness, on the other hand, requires submission to God's authority. 
The political freedom of liberalism is negative political freedom, just as the academic freedom of secular humanism is negative academic freedom. While it may be desirable to allow a high degree of negative political freedom in our country, academic freedom at a Christian university should be positive academic freedom. If academic freedom at a Catholic university means the freedom to teach anything whatsoever, even if it contradicts the teaching of the 
Catholic Church, what distinguishes a Catholic university from any other kind of university? To answer the question merely in terms of having a clergyman as president, a crucifix in every classroom, and a chapel in every residence hall is to abandon a rich intellectual tradition. 
True academic freedom is not freedom from ecclesiastical authority, but freedom to speak the truth. And Christians have an understanding of truth not shared with secular scholars. Yet Notre Dame's description of "academic freedom and associated responsibilities" in its Faculty Handbook offers no indication that it is shaped by a distinctively Christian understanding of freedom. There are, according to the Handbook, three principles of academic freedom: "freedom to teach and to learn according to one's obligation, vision, and training; freedom to publish the results of one's study or research; and freedom to speak and write on public issues as a citizen." The first of the associated responsibilities is "respectful allowance for the exercise of these freedoms by others." Many people believe that academic freedom is "value-free." But Notre Dame's has a right to the greatest degree of (negative) freedom consistent with respecting the right of every other individual to the same degree of (negative) freedom. Far from being value-neutral, academic freedom at Notre 
Dame is rooted in the four cardinal values. 
Some people at Notre Dame believe that we cannot have a genuine university in the modern world without laissez-faire research and teaching-that a university must be a marketplace of ideas." Professors, it is maintained, are not in the business of sheltering students from intellectual challenges to their faith. I grant that one of the things a Catholic university should do is introduce students to intellectual positions opposed to Christianity. But to place a higher priority on challenging students' faith than on teaching them how to defend their faith against attack is simply imprudent. Most Notre Dame undergraduates arrive at the University without knowing the basics of their own moral tradition-and most graduate in the same condition. To attack faith without first nurturing it is like teaching people to swim by dropping them in the middle of the ocean. 
I am not arguing that Christian universities should have less academic freedom than non-Christian universities. On the contrary, I am claiming that only genuinely Christian universities are truly free. One of the roles of a Christian university is that of exploring ways to further the development of the Christian tradition. But there is a difference between working within a tradition to help it progress and stepping outside it in order to attack it. 
I am saying nothing new. The Second Vatican Council document Guadium et Spes emphasizes the need for scholars to be free, but states that this freedom must remain "within the limits of morality and the general welfare." And Ex Corde Ecclesiae the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities, states that academic freedom must remain "within the confines of the truth and the common good." In order to determine whether a university conforms to these documents, some system of identifying the limits of morality and the confines of truth-and of keeping a university within these boundaries-is required. 
Until relatively recently, those systems were external to Catholic universities. In his recently published autobiography, Fr Hesburgh describes his efforts to pull Notre Dame and other Catholic universities out from under the Church hierarchy in order to preserve their "autonomy and academic freedom." But if a university is liberated from external ecclesiastical authority, an internal system of discipline must be instituted in order to ensure that its teaching remains consistent with the tradition to which it belongs. There is no such internal system at the University of Notre Dame today. Because of the decision in the 1960s to transfer control of Notre Dame to a lay board of trustees, the Congregation of Holy Cross is no tonger in a position to preserve the Catholic character of the University. The problem today is that no one else has accepted that responsibility. We believe in values but it doesn't much matter which ones. 
Fr. Hesburgh clearly understands the need to restrict autonomy in some areas. He explains in his autobiography how he brought the "autonomous fiefdom" of legendary football coach Frank Leahy under his control. But why is "bringing the athletics department to heel" so much more important than establishing quality-control measures for the academic departments in order to prevent Notre Dame from becoming a post-Christian university? 
Discussions of academic freedom are naturally closely related to discussions of academic excellence. Many of the decisions that are contributing to the secularization of Notre Dame are being made in the name of excellence. The arguments go something like this: If Notre Dame is to become and to be recognized as a truly great Catholic university, our faculty must include many outstanding scholars. It would be desirable to appoint outstanding scholars who are also committed Christians, but we cannot become a great university by appointing second-rate Christian scholar instead of first-rate non-Christian scholars. Therefore, we should hire the best scholars money can buy, without considering their religious,ious and moral beliefs. Of course Notre Dame is and always will be Catholic What could be more absurd than suggesting that Notre Dame might someday cease to be a Catholic university? 
This is precisely the type of reasoning responsible for Notre Dame's drift toward secular humanism. Because the salaries of Notre Dame's entry-level faculty positions are relatively high, many applicants respond to announcements of openings. And because most of these scholars are not Christians, a policy of disregarding the religious and moral beliefs of applicants will result in a predominantly non-Christian faculty. In short, to decide that religious commitment is irrelevant to hiring decisions is to decide that Notre Dame will cease to be a Catholic university. What does it profit a university to gain worldwide recognition as an excellent research institution and forfeit its soul? No one connected with the institution could do anything but endorse with enthusiasm the idea of working to make Notre Dame an excellent university. But how could it become a "Catholic Princeton" without ceasing to be Catholic? Besides, why should we let non­Christians decide for us what it means to be excellent? Are Christian standards of excellence inferior to secular standards? Roman Catholics are in a better position than anyone else to look to their own intellectual tradition for academic excellence. 
One might ask, By what right does a Protestant criticize a Catholic university for giving up its Catholic identity? Are not people like myself a major part of the problem? Indeed, if Notre Dame were to become so concerned about preserving its Catholic character that it expelled Protestants, I could accept that decision. It would be much better for Protestants to have one American university so committed to Catholicism that it excludes Protestants than to have one more American university so committed to what is laughably called "cultural diversity" that it excluded no one Still, anyone who cares about preserving the Catholic identity of Notre Dame can recognize that if the greatest threat to the Catholic character of the University were Protestantism, the situation would be a far happier one for Catholics than is the present situation. In fact, the leaders of Notre Dame, when attempting to measure the Catholicity of the faculty, would do well to move beyond a binary distinction between those who have Roman Catholic baptismal certificates and those who do not. The religious and moral beliefs of some Protestants are much closer to Rome than are those of many nominal baptized-but-unconverted Catholics. 
What every Christian academic institution needs is not merely faculty members who are Christians in some minimal sense, but scholars who take their Christian faith so seriously that they believe it should be integrated with their scholarship. To believe that whether or not scholars are Christian is irrelevant to the excellence of their scholarship is to reject a rich philosophical and theological tradition and to adopt a form of the fideism for which many Catholics justly criticize many Protestants. The point is not that Christian universities shoutd never enlist the services of non-Christians scholars. But Christian universities shoutd took beyond how many journal articles potential professors are likely to publish. Notre Dame should appoint only excellent scholars; but we should realize that we have more than one option when it comes t understanding academic excellence. 
Notre Dame cannot remain indefinitely at some position between Roman Catholicism and secular humanism-nor should those of us who teach there hope that it might. Such a compromise is self-contradictory and unstable. Should Notre Dame become a post-Christian university, it will remain one. After the momentum passes a certain point there will be no return, even if many members of the Notre Dame community then see and regret what they have allowed to happen. The Methodist universities are not only lost; they are irretrievably lost. Moreover, if Notre Dame becomes a post-Christian universityty, it probably will not be a very good one. How, for instance, could it compete with the best secular institutions in the land without the financial support now coming from people who precisely believe it to be a Catholic university? 
I am not suggesting that I have a simple solution to the problems confronting Notre Dame. I am arguing neither that instituting academic discipline would be an easy corrective to the secularization of the University nor that we shoutd attempt to tum the clock back several decades. I am more concerned with Notre Dame's future than with its past. Most Christian academic institutions see themselves as forced to choose between Christian commitment and academic excellence. Some Catholic and Protestant colleges have chosen the former. The majority of Christian colleges and universities have chosen the latter. I believe that Notre Dame should choose both. Perhaps no university has been both genuinely Christian and truly excellent since the University of Paris in the thirteenth century. But if Notre Dame is interested in carrying on the tradition of the University of Paris, it certainty will not achieve that objective by emulating Harvard, Yale, and Princeton. 
In addition, I am mindful that adopting the type of freedom I am proposing would most likely bring Notre Dame into conflict with the American Association of University Professors' understanding of academic freedom. And because of current or future interpretations of the First Amendment, the school would perhaps have problems with governmental funding. Whatever might prove to be the solution to these or other problems, it would certainty not lie in conforming to the stand¥ds of non-Christian universities. · 
In any case, if positive action to halt and reverse the secularization of the University of Notre Dame is not taken soon, the question will be not whether, but when, Notre Dame will be a Christian university in precisely the sense that Northwestern University is now Christian. The leaders of the University-faculty, administrators, and trustees­have a responsibility of stewardship to pass on to future generations the heritage of faith at Notre Dame. 
If Notre Dame is indeed a Catholic university, There should be no hesitation on the part of its leaders to state that moral truth is not a matter of individual taste, that the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church will not be compromised on the Notre Dame campus, and that anyone not interested in teaching at a Christian university should teach elsewhere-perhaps at one of the formerly Methodist universities. Merely to recite platitudes about "values," thereby implying that Notre Dame students are being educated at a Christian university without taking steps to ensure that they are, is to commit-no other term seems to suit-fraud. 
~---­
Viewpoint 
page 12 Wednesday, March 25, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .•..•••.•....Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ...........• Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ....•..•.•.... Patrick Barth Photo Edltor .•......... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .•..•.........•...... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor..Anna Marie Tabor Controller.•.••••.•••••...........David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Persecuted nicotine addicts Student responds to priest's letter 
Dear Editor: women at St. Mary's want to, irrelevant to, that goal? God
form special interest group 
I found Fr. Weiher's letter "ordained women so that they forbid! Dear Editor: those smokers important (The Observer, March 17) can have their Church as they 
Encouraged by the enough to have an office. deeply disturbing. want it, without males." That If the Church's purpose is to GLND/SMC's bravery in at­Couldn't we just segregate our one woman merely expressed bring humans to Christ; what, 
tempting to receive university smokers, rather than trying to Two facets I found disturbing the desire to be able to step in turn, is the goal of Christ for recognition, I am writing this blot them out of existence? were his attitude toward aside once in a while and eele­humans? Christ said in the Jetter to propose the formation They would promise to smoke women who want female brate the Church's highest Gospel of John that he came of a support group for another only in the library concourse priests and his idea of the mis­form of worship without a that humans may have life, and 
set of marginalized individuals, and a tiny section of the Huddle. sion of the Church. Fr. Weiher man, not to form a separate have it more abundantly. Fr. 
tormented by an intolerant ma­I guess the suggestion is too claims that the women Fr. Church without any men. Weiher writes disparagingly of jority. late; the stone has already been McDermott mentions as in­the idea that we are to The administration has sent carved. volved in this all-women's re­It is patently obvious that the "reclaim the paradise that 
forth a very clear message to treat exhibit "a more or less appeal to the eye saying to the Dante (Milton?) spoke of as the Notre Dame community: Therefore, I call upon all discourteous and insulting atti­hand "I do not need you" cuts lost." smokers, get out! Therefore, I smokers to ban together to give tude towards priests because both ways. If it is arrogant for 
suggest all persecuted Notre each other sympathy, support, they are males." some women to desire a female But if we are indeed incorpo­Dame nicotine addicts gather and nicorette gum. Though the priest for an all-women rated into Christ, the second together under the banner of a administration's letter argues He further states that these retreat, then it is arrogant as Adam, we ought not to be new group: Smoking Colleagues that the success of the Clean Air women want "ordained women well for any males to form a satisfied with working for and Under Mary (S.C.U.M.). Campaign. relies on the so that they can have their self-contained religious society. living in anything less than It appears that the time for thoughtfulness and consid­Church as they want it, without Yet that is in fact the case with paradise, even on earth. Fr. dialogue on this issue has eration for everyone, it seems males." I re-read the adver­the Trappists and other male Weiher might have a case that passed. (Wait-there was no that the smokers will offer the tisement from Fr. McDermott in monastic orders. Since they Fr. McDermott's columns dialogue, was there?) Though whole of the deference, while Campus Ministry that Fr. have male priests for the display mistaken priority in the task force allegedly included the Cleaner-Lungs-Than-Thou Weiher called into question. sacraments, women are spiri­placing too much emphasis on a smoker (obviously an effective Party crows in triumph. tually superfluous. the social tasks of the Church representative), the rights of All that this column men­in proportion to teaching about 
smokers fell in favor of those of Margaret Stein tioned was that a (male) priest The second feature of Fr. Christ and the changes the sweet-breathed faculty, staff, Off-campus was needed to celebrate Mass Weiher's letter I wish to call necessary in our hearts. and students, and of course March 18, 1992 at the end of the retreat, and into question is his concept of 
that one woman said she felt the purpose of the Church. Fr. But the goals themselves, of alienated and saddened by this McDermott and Rev. Stallings, true human fulfillment, social and the fact that women and Fr. Weiher contends, believe justice and righting wrongs, men were not treated equally "the purpose of the Church is are indisputably Christian by the Church. the fulfillment of human beings ones. For that reason it is on earth." Fr. Weiher instead wrong and deeply uncharitable 
Now I really doubt that Fr. claims the Church is the exten­to insinuate that such Weiher would find anything in­sion of Christ on earth, estab­ambitions are taken from the sulting in the mere idea of a lished to bring eternal Enlightenment and the tree of single-sex retreat, since both salvation to human beings. knowledge of good and evil, not men and women have been go­from the Gospel; and that Fr. ing on them for decades before I do not dispute that the ulti­McDermott's goals tend not Vatican II. I cannot find any­mate goal of the Church is to towards God, but to self­thing "positively discourteous" lead as many people as worship. or "insulting" in the woman's possible to Christ, and that the statement, and nothing op­main function of the posed to priests qua males, ei­institutional church is to Barbara Ballasty ther. provide the sacraments, Off-campus 
guidance, and instruction March 18, 1992 I find nothing whatsoever to needed for goal. But is human support the claim that these fulfillment on earth contrary 

DOONESBURY 
/XJ&5 Be!NGOBJE:CT!vt:MtAN 'ttlJ
H&Y, lrlAN, 
HAve TO 7RA5H ACANf?II?ATl3 "?
WHY 50 
ti!HATIf'I 08JecTIVUY, e/IIP/1?.­
[}OWN~ 
ICA~Y C0NCUJ[)f3 7HAT 7HfS{j()Y IS f?!Fffl<&NT, THAT "­H~~ 5P&C!Al-? 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOU MEAN, IN 
SPIT& OFHIS 
RAWS"? 
I 
"People often describe human cruelty as 'bestial,' but that's, of course, unfair to animals, for no beast could ever be as cruel as man.' 
Fyodor Dostoevsky 
Dogs ofthe world unite! Don't submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

----.---.. ------~-~---------------------------­
Wednesday, March 25, 1992 Viewpoint page 13 ­
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Professor ponders •• Just where is ND going? 
Dear Editor: Father Malloy by definition is means suggests why Notre knows where to draw the line. 60-70 members, "selected from 
In an article in Common the father of us all, the CSC's Dame models itself so closely Though we now enjoy a among the country's academic, Sense (Oct. 1991), Professor are our uncles, the faculty the on corporate America (which "revenue stream" by allowing business and religious elites ... , Vasta suggested that gover­older, not entirely grown-up has a penchant for confusing ads for pizza during our bas­[which] Council will have the nance at Notre Dame reached children, and the students the ends and means). Notre Dame ketball games, we would surely right to initiate laws and review its zenith during the heady days unruly youngsters and infants has a group of stockholders draw the line at any Madonna­all foreign and domestic poli­in the early '70's when Fr. in need of constant surveillance who own the corporation (the like request for permission to cies, which until now had been Hesburgh and faculty represen­and guidance by means of strict CSC's). a CEO (Fr. Malloy) represent the ND monogram on the sole preserve of the King, tatives came together to ham­rules. elected by a board of directors her naked breasts. Pizzas are senior royal family princes and mer out a Faculty Manual that But, this model will not do, (the trustees approved by the good! Breasts are bad! bad! cabinet ministers. The royal de­literally transformed Notre for if "every analogy limps.~ as CEO), officers and managers bad! especially naked ones! cree places great powers in the Dame from a medieval to a my Jesuits mentors taught me, (the deans and department After I first suggested a cor­hands of the 60 members of the modern university. then this one goes on crutches. heads), and production line porate model for Notre Dame in Council. 
But, as he quite properly la­How can our father be celibate employees (the faculty), who my "Modest Proposal," a col­They can call any minister in ments, almost everything has and our mother a virgin? shape an inert mass (the league suggested I was only the Cabinet for questioning. gone downhill since. His article, Where are our aunts? And student body) into a marketable partly right-that the true The Council can revise together with the Faculty when will the faculty and stu­product. model is the Catholic parish, spending budgets submitted by Senate's recent modest at­dents be grown-up enough to That Notre Dame as corpo­defined by its four focal points, the Government or reject them. tempts to improve faculty rep­be taken seriously by our ration is generally recognized is overseen by a patriarchal It can also initiate a law project . ) resentation on the Academic elders? evidenced by a recent article in priest: the church, the if 10 members agree to do so. If Council (arbitrarily vetoed by If family is not the answer, Business Week referring ap­parochial school, the gymna­the Cabinet and Consultative Fr. Malloy and countered by his perhaps Notre Dame, a great provingly to the University as sium, and the financial office. Council clash, the King has the proposed Colloquium), has lover of tradition, models itself "Notre Dame, Inc." In this model, faculty and right to call them to meet to piqued my interest in the philo­on the traditional university, i.e. With good reason: for though students, as laypersons ex­sort out their differences." sophic question of Notre one in which a faculty is Notre Dame has long been fa­cluded from the inner sanctum Thus, ironically, at a time Dame's governance. Is it a re­empowered to make most ma­mous for promoting its com­of hierarchy, are treated con­when Saudi Arabia, one of the public? an oligarchy? a dicta­jor decisions respective to its mercial interests (especially its descendingly as passive audi­most illiberal backward politi­torship? a benevolent despo­competence and primary func­football team) by investing re­tors of sermons and communi­cal entities in the world (no tism? or what? tions (teaching and research); sources particularly in its rev­cants in mysterious rituals that parliament, no courts, no vote), 
Certainly it lies somewhere all else is peripheral, a neces­enue producing colleges, and in serve to ensure their ultimate is seeking rapprochement with between anarchy (i.e. governed sary condition at best, at worst a bookstore with all books on happiness. the modern world, Notre Dame by faculty and students) and a nuisance. the second floor, nothing com­Though the parish model has is moving backwards from its papal monarchy (governed by An administration by defini­pares with its recent marketing merit, and though it came from enlightened despotism of the an absolute infallible priest). tion (from the Latin minister, -of the mystique of its name a sociologist (who dares gain­recent past. But where? tri, m. = "a subordinate, ser­(overseen by a banker and a di­say a sociologist?), I still clung Ironic too because Faud's 
Answering this question vant, attendant, assistant~) is rector of marketing) in a multi­to my notion of Notre Dame as secular liberalizing move is seems a worthwhile endeavor if relegated to those tasks that tude of ventures: viz. a testing a corporation, especially after it clearly an attempt to counter only to enable us to fix blame assist the faculty in perfor­of the waters of Pay-TV for had been so eloquently con­the growing fear of the reli­for the recent outcropping on mance of its functions (i.e. by football games, and according firmed by Temple's essay. gious fundamentalists, while campus of nondescript archi­raising money, providing class­to Kerry Temple in "Marketing everything Fr. Malloy has said tecture: what style is the ROTC room buildings, admitting stu­the Irish" (N.D. Magazine, But, I had to abandon it after and done since his accession building? Neo-Gothic? French dents, processing grades, keep­Winter, 1991-2). an upscale reading an article in the New points in the opposite direction: Empire? Post-Modern? ing the sexes apart, etc.). catalogue with a mailing list of York Times: "Saudis Ready a while Saudi Arabia moves Eclectic? Faux Fortress? or Clearly Notre Dame cannot 80,000 featuring such educa­Council to Loosen a Closed slowly into the 21st century, Modern Factory,t he predomi­call itself a traditional univer­tional items as "Waterford Society" (Feb. 29, 1992), which Notre Dame's monolithic gov­nant style at least, since the sity; it is a topsy-turvy one, in crystal footballs, $400 leather article, mutatis mutandi, struck ernance is slouching toward time of Fitzpatrick Hall? which the means (the adminis­jackets, and $700 chairs." me as an ironic parody of Fr. Bethlehem (or is it Mecca?). 
In its literature, manuals, tration) has become the end-a Like Business Week~ Temple Malloy's proposed Colloquium. sermons, etc., Notre Dame self-perpetuating, self-aggran­approves of such corporate The article details King Robert R. Lordi evokes the family as its model dizing end in, by, and for itself. acumen since Notre Dame, un­Faud's proposal for a English Professor of governance. In this model, Such perversion of ends and like other crass universities, Consultative Council of some March 18, 1992 
Architecture students res 
Dear Editor: In any case, beginning with This letter is in response to classicism as a foundation and one included in the February expanding into other concepts 21 issue of The Observer (during the fourth and fifth entitled "ND Architecture not years) is a legitimate and broad enough." precedented understanding of 
The letter was intended as a architectural education. criticism of the narrow If there is criticism to be curriculum with which Notre raised regarding the School of Dame architecture students Architecture, it is that are faced, but it becomes students should be actively led more (or less) then criticism to understand that they can when it portrays the openly consider and develop curriculum as an intolerant, ideas contrary to classical classical monster churning theory. It is possible to react out mindless clones doomed to against something (classical
.·.

spend their lives drawing )!i~... ~ ........~-,:~~·· architecture in this case) and replicas of the Parthenon. learn as much or more from
are classical, but close exami­year in Rome. Philosophy is a very
Several of the claims made that vantage point. 
nation will also reveal the In any case starting with specialized field, based on
within the article are distorted The important concept is
study of (non-classical) second semester sophomore study of significant systems of 
at best and at worst just that there is a standard to
gothicists, modernists, year, students enjoy exposure thought.
wrong. define oneself against (or
traditionalists, and to architecture which, though There are varying, often an­
"Almost the entire freshman with). In a seemingly endless
deconstructivists. biased, is not exclusive. tagonistic philosophical con­
year has been dedicated to the supply of architectural
"Students are taught the Certainly, no architecture cepts, but the discipline itself
doric order alone." stratagems, the absence of
Classical language of building student at Notre Dame ever is relatively focused.
The classical doric type (the this "measuring stick" can
exclusively for the first three failed because they didn't do a Architecture is probably the 
type used on the Parthenon in only guarantee mediocrity.
years of their education." "classical" project. most diverse academic pursuit 
Athens, Greece, for example) Mr. Mayer and Miss MacNeil
Even forgiving the authors in that it can incorporate
is studied as a model for only admit that architectural ". . . 
for implying that classicism is "This idea (rigidly classical influences from any other
about two weeks at the very education does not end upon
limited in its scope to a education) is radical. .. " subject (philosophy being one) 
beginning of second semester graduation... " 
stylistic difference, this An examination of architec­given the correct conditions and we 
freshman year. It is reintro­applaud them for finally being 
statement is simply false. We ture schools across the globe and inclination. As a result,
duced in more depth with the insightful.
will be the first to grant that will reveal how ill-informed an effective architecture
other canonical types (ionic Perhaps they should
the School is biased towards a this idea is. Architecture curriculum requires bias to
and corinthian) at the examine the long history of
classically-based architectural schools as a rule are biased. "distill" this complexity into a
beginning of Sophomore year. non-classical architects who
education, but claiming that Certainly, most of them are surmountable body of knowl­Perhaps Mr. Mayer and Miss 
this is doctrine imposed on more modernist than Notre edge. were so burdened by the 
MacNeil should consult the irrelevance of their classical
unwilling students is Dame, but that alone doesn't The opportunity to react ­
freshman syllabus before they education that they actually
ludicrous. indicate that the School is negatively should be left open, 
make irresponsible claims became noteworthy. 
First semester Sophomores theoretically corrupt. but bias itself is a necessary
about the curriculum. 
are restricted to classical Furthermore, making com­evil. In any case, beginning
Freshman architecture stu­Michael P. Nolte
types because they are an parisons to broad liberal edu­with classicism as a
dents study Alberti, Palladio, Fifth Year; Freshman Class 
excellent foundation for any cation in other disciplines is foundation and expanding into 
Ruskin, Laugier, Wright, Le T.A.; Formalist/Modernist 
architectural theory. In futile. To see architecture and other concepts (during the
Corbusier, Venturi, Krier, Jason A. Montgomery
addition, an understanding of philosophy as parallel in the fourth and fifth years) is aEisenman among others. It is 
traditional-classical building way that the authors do is legitimate and precedented Fifth Year; Sophomore Class 
true that the majority of the and planning is important akin to equating the Library of understanding of architectural T. A.; Traditionalist/Classicist theory and buildings studied background for the (third) Congress and a book report. education. 
-

Accent 

page 14 Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
( 

Paige Smoron 
Non Sequiturs 

You can't hide from the 
epistle of doom 
D 
ear hapless interviewee, 
BOO! 

Sorry, just a little rejection letter 
humor. 

We really couldn't help it. For weeks now, you've approached the mailbox trembling, waiting for the epistle ofdoom. 
You coward. Oh, stop sniveling. You knew we'd be here sooner or later. Thin envelope. wasn't it? 
Did you really believe we'd offer you a job? Invite you to be one of us? Validate your existence? 
No way-we REJECT you! REJECT! From the Latin, meaning "to ject again." We spurn you, cast you out, disdain you, scorn you, rebuff you, brush you aside, exhort you to return to your slimy dwelling beneath the sidewalk ... 
We never use those words, of course. We're too classy for that, too subtle. We'll tell you we just don't have any openings at present. 
That we think your unique skills might be more suited for a position, say, in the haircare field. 
But you know what we mean. Quite frankly, we find you utterly inadequate. 
We thought you were ugly. 
We thought you dressed funny. 
We didn't like you. 
And your fly was open. 

We'll tell you that this is the hardest part of our job, that it was an extremely difficult decision for us, that we would rather be dipped in Gravy Train and thrown to a pack of crazed poodles than risk hurting your feelings. 
We lie. 

This is the only perk, the only ray of sunshine, in our vapid, vacuous jobs. And we make the most of it. We sit here day after day, getting little cuts all 
over our upper bodies because our shirts are too starchy, benignly smiling and listening to you swear up and down to us that you could think of nothing more personally fulfilling than working on an ad campaign for Velveeta™ "cheese." 
We listen to you insist that you can add numbers with more velocity, more accuracy, and dammit, more finesse, than other, lesser accountants. 
We listen to you profess a divine obligation to respond to your true calling, your place in life, your way of really reaching the people-insurance. 
And the whole time we nod and "hmmmmmmm", pretending to note on your resume that you consider your greatest accomplishment to be the time you overcame your rhythm deficiency and conquered the "cha cha." 
But we are fooling you. We don't care if you put yourself through school by prostituting. 
We are actually drafting meaningless phrases like "I can only tell you that it is more a consequence of our very limited needs rather than a reflection of your fine qualifications," and "Thank you for your interest in investigating a career with us. Best wishes for personal success in whatever path you choose." 
Yes, even as you work into the conversation that you were on the decorations committee in your dorm. we are mocking you inwardly, and the letter that will officially verify your inferiority is already taking shape. 
We know just how we'll end it. . 
We'll tell you that you should not give up hope. That you should apply again, in the event there is an opening. 
Oh, do. We'd like nothing better than to ject you again. 
Paige Smoron is Assistant Accent Editor emeritus ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 

"Give Peace aDance" offers agood time for agood cause 
By STEVE TANKOVICH 
Accent Writer 
Stepan Center will rock to sounds of funk and the music of the Irish tonight. The occasion is "Give Peace a Dance," a six-hour marathon concert held as part of Notre Dame Peacefest '92. 
Peacefest '92 is a week long series of activities designed to raise consciousness on the ND/SMC campuses about issues of war and peace, according to Marcie Poorman, an officer for the World Peace Action Group, which is organizing the week's events. 
The World Peace Action Group (WPAG) is a student or­ganization which was started this year by members of last year's Gulf Crisis Action Group in order to continue the promotion of peace issues in the ND/SMC community. Some of WPAG's actions this year have included protests, a Mass, the distribution of stickers, a campaign against General Electric, and now Peace fest. 
So far, Peacefest has included a workshop on nonviolence training by a member of Greenpeace, the annual "Take Back the Night" candlelight procession in promotion of campus safety, and a Mass in honor of Archbishop Oscar Romero. 
The "Give Peace a Dance" cel­ebration will include the music of four campus bands and will be highlighted by a two hour concert put on by The Drovers, a Chicago­based Irish-rock band. 
The Drovers got their start four years ago at a St. Patrick's day gig. Since then, they have performed in Europe, on "The Tonight Show," at colleges and clubs around America, and have been featured in the movie smash "Backdraft." 
Their music involves traditional Irish instrumentation, but integrates modern rock influence into its songs in a way which gives the group a truly unique sound. 
The members of the Drovers are guitarist/composer/vocalist Mike Kirkpatrick, vocalist/flute, tin whistle, and button accordion player Kathleen Keane, percussionist Jackie Moran, fiddler and founder Sean Cleland, bassist Dave Callahan, and percussionist/trombone player Winston Damon. 
The Drovers concert will be preceded by four, one-hour concerts by campus bands. Leading off the concert at 7 p.m. will be Victoria's Real Secret, an alternative quartet who are enjoying recent fame as the runners up of the annual NAZZ "Battle of the Bands" festival held last Saturday. 
Victoria's Real Secret has an original sound which shows a variety of influences. "It's grunge punk with a mellow appeal", says singer/bassist Steve Sostak, "stuff people like." The other members of the group, all of whom are fresh­men, are Chris Daly on main guitar, Marty Mennes on drums and percussion, and Paul Phillips on bass and guitar, as well as backup vocals and sometimes the oboe. 
Victoria's Real Secret will play until 8 p.m., at which time Jasmine Groove will take the stage. Jasmine Groove is a group which covers music from blues to funk, says Rich Pagen, co-founder and drummer for the band. Some of the artists whose songs they have performed this year include Jimi Hendrix, J'ames Brown, and Stevie Ray Vaughn. 
Pagen and guitarist Dave Kirchner have been playing to­gether since Pagen's sophomore year in college. Now, with Pagen as a senior, they have joined up with their classmates John Fletcher on bass and Jeremy Gridone on saxophone and have been Jasmine Groove ever since. 
Next on the agenda will be Seamaisin, beginning at 9 p.m. Seamaisin's music will be a great departure from that of the other band's, but will prepare the audience for the music of the Drovers. Seamaisin, which has been together for three years, specializes in traditional Irish music. The group, made up of five ND students and a faculty member, performs regularly at Club 23, ac­cording to Seamaisin harpist Mary Branick. 
Seamaisin has gone through several member changes since it started; the present members include Branick; Jim Kennedy on guitar, bazookie, and tin whistle; Eileen McClaine on guitar; Theresa Ramsbey on fiddle; Steve Wehmeyer on Bodhran; and Tim Fischer on guitar and mandolin. 
If ND/SMC students attending Peacefest try hard enough, they may even convince the members of Seamaisin to do some traditional Irish step dancing. 
Immediately preceding the performance by the Drovers at 10 p.m., will be the performance by the group, DissFunktion. DissFunktion, the winner of this year's Nazz festival, is one of the newest bands on campus. 
DissFunktion formed last October, and has played at Earth Jam and as an opening act at Club 
23. DissFunktion vocalist Kris Penn describes the group as a mixture of funk, blues, and rock'n'roll dance music. "Being as big as we are, we have the capability of creating a sound not possible for most bands," Penn adds. 
The size of DissFunktion truly does set it apart from other bands. DissFunktion consists of 11 members: Penn and John Fletcher on vocals, Jeremy Manier on bass, Harrison Kellar on keyboards, Corey Weber on guitar, Rich DuBrava and Derek Doyle on percussion, and a four-member horn section made up of Cliff Steger on trombone, Stacy Sloan and Fred Bimi on saxophone, and Erik Hansen on trumpet. The group is looking forward to this their first full-length performance, as well as their first gigs at Bridgets Thursday and Saturday. 
The cost for admission to "Give Peace a Dance" is $5, and proceeds from the event go to Safe Station, a shelter for teens in South Bend, and Sex Offense Services. 

-
The Observer page 15
Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
Florida St. guard doubtful for matchup with Indiana 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -Monday showed no indication of be able to play Thursday in the back to the point. The didn't know whether he would 
West Regional semifinal but Seminoles are 14-6 with Ward use the three-guard lineup that
Injured point guard Charlie a dislocation or bone damage, might be ready Saturday for the starting. proved successful during most
Ward is rejoining his Florida team physician Doug Henderson said. He diagnosed championship game if the third­At Albuquerque, team trainer of the season or go with a taller
State teammates at 
Albuquerque, N .M., but is the injury as a pinched rotator seeded Seminoles (22-9) beat Sam Lunt said Ward's chances team that started against the second-seeded Hoosiers of playing this week depended Georgetown last Saturday. 
doubtful for the Seminoles' cuff. 
(25-6). on his rehabilitation program. Florida State defeated
NCAA tournament game "I have much better move­
"We're going to start working Montana and Georgetown byThursday against Indiana. ment, but I still don't have my 
Ward, also a quarterback on on range-of-motion, then identical 78-68 scores in the
The Seminoles' floor leader strength back," Ward said. "The 
muscles feel weak." the football team, got a late progress to strengthening, then first two rounds of play.
suffered what doctors had 
Ward left the examination start on basketball. Sam Cassell endurance," Lunt said. "When Kennedy said he wouldn't be
feared was a dislocated left 
started the season at the point he can do that and is pain-free, afraid to use the big team thatshoulder in Florida State's first­without the sling he has worn but moved to shooting guard he can go back to practice (and) features 7 -foot Andre Reid atround game last Thursday since injuring himself and said when Ward joined the team. playing." center and 6-10 Byron Wells
against Montana. most of the pain was gone. He said he doubted he would With Ward out, Cassell moved Coach Pat Kennedy said he spelling him. 
However, tests performed 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All class~ieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NEEDED TWO FEMALE HOW TO SUPPORT RAPE 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 It's here! Cream your favorite ROOMMATES TO SHARE SURVIVORS: SUGGESTIONS LaFortune Student Center Lyonitel Fri, March 27, Lyons Arch WANTED FURNISHED OAKHILL CONDO FOR CONCERNED OTHERS We're Open Everyday!!! 4:30p.m. $1 per pie-Signups
I II
NOTICES 
FOR SUMMER AND/OR 92-93 will be the topic of a presentation lunch/dinner-5DH, Wed. & Thurs. JUNIORS: Second City Trip Friday, ~S=U=M=M=E=R=JO=B=S=====:-..J YEAR. AMY@ 277-9452 this evening, March 25. Facilitated to the athletic dept.: by Dr. Rita Donley and Dr. Mickey your time is gonna come PEOPLE AUCTION 
3-27$19 includes Bus & ticket@ ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS LaFortune Info Desk before 5:00 HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY Franco, both from NO's Counseling -led zeppelin THURS, 3-26 Wed. 3. FUN! PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS 
25 SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8 Center, it will be held at 7 PM, THEODORE'S 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287-Montgomery Theater (LaFortune) at It puts the lotion on its skin, or else 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
TYPING AVAILABLE 4989. 7:30pm. All are welcome. it gets the hose again. RAFFLE TIX ON SALE 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 
287-4082. TUES& WED IN Rent one bdrm apartmt close to WANTED: Two or more U2 tix (Stupid.) DINING HALLS­
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING 
Typing campus, $250+ uti!, dep. 288-4919. for Chicago show. $-no object! Call ALSO CAN BUY AT
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL 
Pickup & Delivery 1087 She sings a song and I listen to THE DOOR THURS 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE 
277-7406 ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., what it says-WIN GREAT PRIZES! 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
for large 4-BR, furnished house. Female roommate wanted for May. If you want a friend, feed any animal FOR ONLY $1499 SPHINX TOURS Complete security system; washer Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the There's so much space, I cut me a GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! I 
SALES 
ANNOUNCES A 15 DAYS NILE & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259-lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $451/mo plus piece with some fine wine, WILL HAVE NONE OF THIS CLINT 
NOW HIRING FULL TIME AND 
CRUISE INCLUDING AIRFARE, 7801 or 255-5852. utilities. call (312) 975-5035. It brought peace to my mind in the BLACK NOISE!! !II
PART TIME SALES ASSOCIATES 
ON BOARD ONE OF OUR Summertime,
FOR IMMEDIATE OPENINGS OR 
LUXURY FLOATING FIVE STAR Attractive studio's in lovely old NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation And it rolled! 0
SUMMER HELP IN THE NEAR 
HOTELS SAILING BETWEEN Mansion 1/2 mile from ND 225-please call Neal at 283-1159 H
WEST SUBURBS OF CHICAGO 
CAIRO AND ASWAN. ALL MEALS 300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL INCLUDED FROM OUR for summer and fall rentals. WANT MY COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED, H
WE OFFER: 


EXQUISITE CUISINE, PLUS FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG E SWIMMING POOL, BAR AND BANANA CHIPS!!! BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO L
• $8-$15 PER HOUR 
I FOR SALE 
DISCO. VISITS TO 15 CITIES TO ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY L
• WEEKLY PAYOUT SEE THE PHARAONIC GUNS 'N ROSES TICKETS FOR 0
your mom INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF• TRAINING PROVIDED 
WONDERS. CALL 800-233-4978. SALE. FOR INFO-JILL X3021 FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND 
• FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE 
DON'T FORGET TO WATCH ON PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S L
(10-40 HAS. PER WEEK) STUDENTS & PARENTS! 
MONDAY!!! Tick-Tock ..... . ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID. u
• SATURDAY INTERVIEWING SAVE on those housing costs. Buy 
GOOD LUCK CLARICE, JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933-L
AVAILABLE. this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. u
HANNIBAL, AND JOHN DEMME!!I 3499.
I LOST/FOUND I 
Get a break on your taxes, and aCALL (708) 955-3578 AND ASK 
BEADS?????PAT OBRIEN'S??? ADOPTION HAPPY 22nd B-DAY LOST: green petite woman's class FOR PHYL. return on your investment after If you think it may be best for your LAURIE ZILIAK! 
ring. Possibly near Common's or graduation. Call Janet Knapp at WHAT IS SO CRAZY??? baby and for you to consider love,Linebacker. If found please return Now taking aplication for part-time REIMAX 1 00 realty for more adoption, please call us. We are a BUTCHER
to 143 Farley or call Angie at 4095. employment in a information. 219-255-5858 or 219­277-7402. 
I DO NOT UNDERSTAND???? responsible, childless couple with 
Thanks. Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop values and traditions which offer a exp. required. 
FOR SALE: child security, 2 loving parents, and Please, help me. If anyone out there 
FOUND: a silver ring with a black FOR SALE-One way plane middle shaped like a sideways ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT ticket, $80.00, from South Bend to a warm home. We hope you will has McDonald's Basketball Cards I CAMPUS CELEBRITIES! choose us to be the parents of your need them. If I achieve nothing else 
eyeball was found on a doorstep on -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Denver,CO. Leaves May 9 at 11 :40A.M. ROCKET baby. Legal and Medical expenses in my life, at least I want to have the 
Navarre street on St. Patrick's Day, Free transportation! Room & Board! 
LOU paid. Please call Bill and Kathy, entire set. I will cosider buying, 
perhaps left by one of the Over 8,000 openings. No CALL Josh x1522 MONK collect, at 219-322-8187. trading, or even accepting them as
unwelcome, rude and offensive experience necessary. Male or NO CHEERLEADERS a gift. If you have any information at
guests. Female. For employment program 
ROD CULVER SOUNDTECHS all concerning this please take baby 
288-9421 call Student Employment Services TICKETS 
IRISH GUARD DJs steps to the phone and call Quinn at at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. 
POMPONS SOUNDTECHS x2059.
FOUND: PEN OUTSIDE OF Have 1 ,2, or 3 tix to Steve Miller. NO TENNIS DJs
SOUTH DINING HALL ON FRIDAY, NEED EXTRA CASH !!! (Great seats!) x1684 The Student Activities Office The Arts & Letters Business 
3/20. CALL 232-2794 & IDENTIFY. 271-2001 
PEOPLE AUCTION is looking for sound /light Society proudly welcomes: Local Card & Gift Shop 
U2 TICKETS FOR SALE THURS, 3-26 technicians and disc jockeys 
I lost a Notre Dame Lacrosse Looking for Student Interested in March 31 concert at the Rosemount 7 PM, THEODORE'S for next year. If interested Mr. Andrew J. McKenna 
sweatshirt Sat. night somewhere on Part Time Work. Horizon BENEFITS MEGHAN BEELER & stop by 315 LaFortune 
South Quad. It has #34 on the front (Freshman Preferred) best offer COLLEEN HIPP SCHOL. FUNDS Student Center. •president & C.E.O., Scwarz Paper 
and I really need it back. If you've 271-2001 
call284-3814 Deadline for applications is Co.
found it, please call Kristine at Call Britton at Britton's Balloons and 
leave name, ph #and price you are PEOPLE AUCTION Friday, March 27. •chairman, N.D. Board of Trustees 
X3352. Gifts (next to Tracks) 
willing to pay THUS. MARCH 26 ·oirector: Tribune Co., McDonald's 271-2001 
7 PM THEODORE'S Yay Cornhuskers!!! Corp., Dean Foods Co., Lakeshore
LOST Black & Silver Watch U2 TIX-CHI, 3/31 BE THERE! IIIII Bank Co., Chicago Cubs 
Sat. night at Need ride to North Carolina 
Selling U2 tix:call x4634, Happy Birthday Joe Roberts •Part-owner, Chicago Bears 
Battle of the Bands May 8th or 9th leave best offer. Call THURS happy bday bug-kt & di 
Reward Call Matt x2347 Will split tolls and gas 
ONLY, noon-Bpm. Asking $80-THE METHA-TONES Mr. McKenna will be discussing the Call Dave 3633 
125 pertik Just a few final Marauder Nova Sat. March 28 Club 23 role of a liberal arts education in theString of Pearls found outside 
Quotes: Make-up and handcuffs business world. 
Breen Phillips 3/19/92 Gain' to Chicago on the 31st? 
15. Kris, checking out the King of optional
Contact 101 O'Shag U2? 
PERSONAL 
Prussia Nightlife Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
Need a ride there? WE DO!! I Call ...LOST*.. 
14. lnsp: Who is the joint cheifs of ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS 4pm to 4:30pmB.P.1323, honey, for riders and gas 
staff? A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS Foster Room, LaFortune glasses with money!! 
2/INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Cdt: All four of them corporal? A BABY! Young financially secure Everyone is welcome! 
metalic frame 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 13. lnsp: Don't be nervous cadet, Catholic couple looking to adopt
MICRO TUTOR NEEDED. 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, I'm here to help you achieve all your and provide a loving home to an Looking for maid. 
REWARD! CSE3321EE361 ,2 hrs/week@ 
289-1993. Office near campus. goals infant. All Expenses paid. Please No experience needed II
call Joe at 1208 $7.50/hr. (negotiable). call Mike 
12.... gross call collect (317) 364-0300 for more x2546x2058 
I, myself, cannot. 11. CPT P reminds me of...well I information.
Found don't know what he reminds me of Garth Brooks IS a God ... and you 
mini 35mm camera 
We are not strong 10. what's in the bowl, b@#•h Ray Micaletti, hope your wrist is ok can hear him on COUNTRY 102. 
Was found just before I FOR RENT 
9. He's gotta get rids of that f@#.ing from skating on friday! especially weekdays between 3 and CHRISTMAS break. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY You should be with us, feeling like hat renee 7 pm with Doug Montgomery! 219-291-7153. we do... 8. It had a short handle call Joe 1208 
7. He's gonna make Verich sick Muffin Man, your little cinnamon r----------, FOR RENT "JOBS, TRAVEL, ADVENTURE! again muffin will always accept your 
I ,.,. I

"ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... 200+ listings for over 50,0000 6. SMAJ: Graydon, you're gettin' butter!!
LOST: Navy blue ID CASE at 
1 1 The I 
259-7801 OR 255-5852" positions -national/international. weird, man. ~ COMPtrn:R t
Lafayette Square on 3/17. Many ­
Send $4.95 + $1 P&H to 5. Gimme something long that I can Clint Black shall reign supreme. nrroa 1needed cards inside. If found, 3 Bedroom Renaissance Resources, Box 652, reach under the van with IBM Compatible says, J
please call x2722. "Beat the Boob/"
Walk to Campus Driggs, ID, 83422 or call 208-354-4. You know we're gonna get the We had DO, burn you. $555 Month 2795." rooms next to the friggin dumpsters 
Learn quiCker, better wtth a peracmall

··Losr· 
data-baae and computerized a01111-J

232 3616 3. I think he's gonna pull out and get A Census Taker Once Tried To
a green jacket w/ a references 11ght at your tlngertl.psl
in a big accident Test Me ... 
tan/brown collar 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOS -12 Ramada Inn of Elkhart. Award 2. What comes around comes in 0 Corwer&IDn Factors (PhysiCS/Chem) 1lost at turtle creek on NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. -Winning Hotel, has rooms for your face! I Ate His Liver With Some • ~ Periodic Table (Gen Cheml
st. Patty's day 1 
Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath -Graduation weekend. Located at 1. Tell him NO S@#TII FAVABEANS • QuaUtat1ve Analysis (Lab Chcml ­
I

call mike X4183 available immediately-call287-Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart Thanks for the great weekend and And A Nice CHIANTI. 0 Gluool!ists ct. TCA Ci/de (Blocheml 0534 or 271-9268. (12 miles from South Bend) • FuncUons/Siructures (Bio/Bot/Zool I
here's looking to Illinois

Lost: A BLACK HILLS GOLD • Ctrcular l'1ow Model (Macro Ecoll)
Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 ASIAN
PINKY RING. IT IS VERY ·~u.s. Constttutton IHJst/Govtl J
Ideal house for graduate deposit per room. Send letter with STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA AMERICAN
SENTIMENTAL. • ComparaUue Religions (Soc Studies! I 
student with family. 3 bdr deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Info on semester, year, graduate, ASSOCIATIONIF FOUND CALL: 284-5447 2 bath. One block from ND. Elkhart, IN 46514. summer and internship programs in MEMBERSHIP DRIVEl Send SASE for complete catalog; or I 637 Peashway. $525 month Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and DANCE PARTY !lend your name a: address. disk me
• Found at NAZZ • 
234-1714 Tom, Melbourne. Programs start at FRIDAY APRIL 27th (3.5" or 5.251. a: $10.00 per ut1e I ­Gold and Silver bracelet found 
Meet me at Greenfields Cafe in the $3520. Callt-800-878-3696. 9:30pm-1:30am (U.S. check or money order! to: I 
at Nazz last Saturday -call and D.E.D. ELEC'IRONIC PUBUSIDNG 
1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL. morning. You were right, it is the THEODORE'S
describe it if you want it back! 10306 E UVE OAKAVE I 
USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO. best omelet in town! The Lizard King lives on! Down with OPEN TO ALL! I ARCADIA CA 91007
-Ryan x1247 
232-2794. the Crustaceans! AAA Just Do It! !I Most Ordera Filled Wlth1n 48 Moura. I 
Sue L~~~~~nt.!!~Re.,!_~J 
-

The Observer 


NIT ROUNDUP
1994 World Cup Soccer Sites 

The Observer/Rolando de Aauiar  Wedneaday, April  1  
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL  
NOTRE DAME BATTING PLAYER Craig Counsell Eric Danapllis Cory Mae Pat Leahy Matt Haas Joe Blnklawlcz Greg Layson Robby Bill< Bob Lisanti Steve Verduzco Paul Fallla  BASEBALL STATISTICS BA G AB .345 15 55 .320 15 50 .308 15 52 .281 9 32 .278 10 18 .276 15 58 .257 13 35 .250 8 16 .192 11 26 .184 13 38 .184 14 49  R 16 12 10 3 4 9 8 6 2 4 4  H 19 16 16 9 5 16 9 4 5 7 9  RBI 12 15 8 6 4 11 3 1 2 2 2  2B 5 2 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 0 0  3B 0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1  HR 2 2 1 2 0 3 0 0 0 0 1  SB 0 3 0 0 0 0 6 2 0 5 1  PITCHING PITCHER Eric Danapllis Pat Leahy Chris Michalak David Sinnes Alan Walanla Craig Allen Tom Price Tim Kraus Dan Adams NOTRE DAME OPPONENTS  ERA 0.00 2.52 2.90 4.20 5.00 7.00 7.02 7.71 9.00 4.50 4.89  G 1 4 5 5 4 4 4 4 1 15 15  GS 0 4 4 1 2 1 3 0 0 15 15  w 0 3 3 2 1 0 1 0 0 10 5  L 0 1 1 0 2 0 1 0 0 5 10  s 0 0 1 2 1 0 0 0 0 4 1  CG 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 2  IP 2.0 25.2 31.0 15.0 18.0 9.0 16.7 9.3 2.0 128.0 127.0  H 1 19 23 15 23 15 21 14 1 132 119  BB 2 9 7 7 6 7 8 4 2 55 86  so 2 23 17 10 11 5 8 2 5 80 112  COLLEGE BASEBALL'S TOP (March 23) 1. Wltchha St. 19-1 2. Miami 22·4 3. Florida 23-5 4. Florida St. 24·5 5. Louisiana St. 19·3 6. Georgia Tech 23-1 7. Clemson 22-2 8. Stanford 18·7 9. Hawaii 17-5 10. Texas 22·7 11. CS-Fullerton 19·7 12. South Alabama 19·3  20  
Dan Bautch  .182  7  11  3  2  0  0  0  0  2  13. Oklahoma St.  17-6  
Craig D01ensi  .105  9  19  2  2  3  0  0  0  0  14.  Pepperdlne  18·8·1  
Rob Natucchla  .000  2  0  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  15. Arizona St.  11-8  
Alan Walanla  .000  1  0  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  16.  Long Beach St.  15-9-1  
Mike Rooney  .000  11  6  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  17.  Georgia  16-4  
Adam Maisano  .000  6  5  0  0  1  0  0  0  0  18.  CS· Northridge  17-5-1  
Edwin Hartwell  .000  2  0  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  19.  NOTRE DAME  10-5  
NOTRE DAME  .253  15  471  86  119  70  18  4  11  19  20.  SW Louisiana  17-7  
OPPONENTS  .265  15  498  79  132  71  29  3  8  13  

EEKLY FORU 
EVERY THURSDAY AT 7:00PM IN GRACE PIT 
This Thursday, March 26th: 


"INTERRACIAL DATING" 
WITH PANEL DISCUSSION 
--
Sponsored by MEC and NAACP 
-
Funded by Student Government 



-

~-------------~ ~ 
Wednesday, March 25, 1992 The Observer page 17 
--==========================~==----============~~ 
....
Join 
Bishop John Sheets, S.J. 
Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Basilica 
March 25th (Tonight!) Feast of the Annunciation 

ueen o Peace 
~ 

Mass 
.• 
6:00p.m. 
-
(receive the March 25th message 
• 
from Medjugorje!) 
I I 
I 
II 
I 
I 
I 
i 
I 
I 
I 
,._ I 
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
Jordan's 50 paces Chicago to victory over hapless Nuggets 
(AP)-Michael Jordan scored 50 points, falling one shy of his season high, and Chicago con­tinued to roll. 
Jordan, leading the NBA with a 30-point average, scored 51 Thursday night against Washington. He led Chicago to its ninth victory in 10 games and 29th in 34 at home this season. 
Reggie Williams led the Nuggets, who lost for the 29th time in 35 road games, with 31 points. His 3-point basket with 
7:32 remaining pulled Denver to 95-90, but two baskets by Jordan and one by Stacey King restored order. 
With 3:27 left and the Bulls ahead 104-94, Chicago's Will Perdue picked up his sixth per­sonal foul and was called for a technical. At the same time, Denver's Winston Garland was whistled for a double technical and ejected from the game. 
SuperSonics 128, Rockets 106 
Derrick McKey scored 23 points and Shawn Kemp led a 21-9 third-quarter spurt with seven points TUI~sday night as 
the Seattle SuperSonics de­feated the Houston Rockets 128-106. 
The Sonics led 73-63 midway through the third period, then turned the gam into a rout with a 94-72 lead after three quar­ters. 
The Rockets played without center Hakeem Olajuwon, who was suspended indefinitely by the team on Monday. Though cleared to play by team doctors last Friday, Olajuwon has re­fused to play games against Sacramento and Seattle, com­plaining of a sore hamstring. 
Ricky Pierce scored 20 points for the Sonics, while Kemp had 19 points and 11 rebounds. Vernon Maxwell led Houston with 19 points. 
Cavs 128, Pacers 113 
Brad Daugherty will share the credit with his teammates in due time. For now, let him enjoy his third career triple-double. 
"Hey, it's a personal stat. I'm not going to give credit to any­body else," Daugherty said with a smile Tuesday night after he had 32 points, 11 rebounds and 
Holyfield files suit against manager 
ATLANTA (AP) Heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield is charging his former manager and business partner with luring him to invest in a failed car dealership that may cost him about $4 million. 
Holyfield is suing Ken Sanders, his former manager, and businessman Herb Newton for allegedly tricking him into investing $700,000 in the deal­ership in suburban Clayton County and guaranteeing more than $3.2 million in loans. 
The suit, filed last week in Fulton County Superior Court, also names General Motors Corp.'s Buick division and its credit division, General Motors Acceptance Corp., as defen­dants. 
It charges that Sanders, Newton and GM conspired to trick Holyfield into thinking he was investing in a profitable venture and created false doc­uments projecting that Evander Holyfield Buick-Subaru would make $800,000 a year. 
In fact, the suit said, the Buick dealership was losing about $1 million a year when Holyfield bought it. 
The suit is the latest court battle over the company, which closed last April after it ran out of money. 
A week after the closing, Holyfield sued Newton's Dealership Management Group for mismanagement. Newton filed a $2 million countersuit saying Holyfield gave away hundreds of thousands of dol­lars in free cars, insurance and maintenance to relatives, girl­friends and boxing employees. Both suits are pending in Clayton County Superior Court. 
Holyfield was on a promotion tour for his next fight Tuesday and could not be reached for comment. He has denied the freebie allegations. 
GM doesn't comment on pending litigation, said 
-
-

spokesman Thomas Pyden. 
Newton said he thinks the latest suit could be Holyfield's reaction to the $2 million suit. He said he didn't know Sanders until Holyfield and Sanders asked him to invest once Holyfield was established as the dealer. 
Sanders did not return a phone call Tuesday, but he told the Fulton County Daily Report that he and Holyfield are still friends and he suspects the boxer's attorney prompted him to sue. 
The suit said Sanders sold Holyfield a Subaru dealership for $200,000. Next door was the Buick dealership, which leased its land from Sanders. 
Sanders worried that the money-losing Buick dealership would go out of business, leav­ing him with no income from the land, the suit charged. So Sanders and Newton teamed up to merge the two businesses using Holyfield's money, it said. 
Holyfield ended up with a 45 percent interest in the com­pany, for which he paid $700,000. He also guaranteed more than $3.2 million in loans from General Motors, which is now demanding repayment. 
11 assists in Cleveland's 128­113 victory over the Indiana Pacers. 
While Magic Johnson made the triple-double commonplace during the 1980s, the Cavs have had only eight in their history. Daugherty, with three, has more than any other Cleveland player. 
The 32 points matched Daugherty's season high. His scoring was particularly impor­tant because backup center John Williams was out with the flu. 
The victory was Cleveland's eighth in nine games, and its ninth straight at home. Indiana's four-game winning streak ended. 
The Cavaliers dominated from the start, making their first 11 shots and going ahead 24-7 on ter before Daugherty's short jumper and hook shot widened the gap again. The Pacers closed to 81-77 on Rik Smits' basket midway through the third period before Price's bank shot started a 13-2 spree that demoralized Indiana. 

Cleveland maintained a dou­ble-figure lead the rest of the way, pushing it as high as 21 points in the fourth quarter. 
Kings 113, Bucks 102 
Wayman Tisdale scored 14 of his 28 points in the decisive third quarter as the Sacramento Kings handed the Milwaukee Bucks their 17th straight road loss, 113-102 Tuesday night. 
Trailing 55-53 at halftime, the Kings used a 19-6 spurt to open the third quarter and outscored Milwaukee 34-20 in the period en route to an 87-75 lead entering the fourth period. 
Mitch Richmond scored 26 points and Lionel Simmons 23 points for the Kings, who claimed a third straight victory for only the second time this season. 
Alvin Robertson had 22 points and Frank Brickowski 21 for the Bucks, who could have tied for eighth place in the tight Eastern Conference playoff race. Instead, they stayed in 11th. 
Moses Malone scored 16 of his 18 points in the first half for the Bucks, who haven't won a road game since a 92-91 victory over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Jan 2. 
Mark Price's 3-pointer with r-----------------------­
5:34 to play in the first quarter. 
Price scored 25 points for the Cavs, who had seven players in double figures. Schrempf led Indiana with 25 points, Chuck Person added 19 and George McCloud 16. 
Indiana got within three points late in the second quar-
IRecycleI 
WHAT IF YOU
Share in titeir 
DON'T GO 
INTO THE
growth to full 
SCHOOL OF
manhood 

YOUR CHOICE? 
Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students rarse their scores and their chancesof being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. Society of ~~gl-1 South Bend, IN 46637 
African 

Missions (219) 272-4135 
If you would like to know abOUJ us, 
COntJJCt: 
Fr. Ulick Bourke, SMA SMA Fathers, Dept. NOO SOO Everett Ave., Monterey Park, CA 91754 
818-280-{;967 

DO YOU WANT TO RUN ABUSINESS? 
GET INVOLVED! GIVE US THE BENEFIT OF YOUR EXPERIENCE! 
We are looking for a few good people to apply for executive positions in the three student-run businesses. Pick up an application today in the respective shops: 
<9<9<900<90<9<9<9<9<9 NOTRE DAME 


VIDEO 
<90000<90<9<9<9<90 


300 LaFortune Basement of LaFortune Basement of LaFortune 

Wednesday, March 25, 1992 The Observer page 19 
Rhode Island advances in Purdue prepares for Florida ­

NIT with overtime win 
NEWTON, Mass. (AP) ­Jason Alexander made a 3­pointer with 34 seconds left in the second overtime, and Rhode Island survived three Boston College shots in the final 17 seconds for an 81-80 victory Tuesday night in the second round of the NIT. 
Jeff Kent led Rhode Island (22-9), which advanced to the quarterfinals, with 19 points. Abdul Fox added 17 and Kyle Ivey-Jones had 15. 
After Boston College's Malcolm Huckaby made a 3­pointer with 54 seconds left to move the Eagles ahead 80-78, Alexander hit his long jumper from the right side to win the 
p 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

A workshop· for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
SUNDAY. MARCH 29. 1992 12:30 -5:00 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT.•• PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY MARCH 25. 
Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. Call 239-5242 for more information 
free throw and a basket, and
Graduate Student Union Officer Elections 
Craig Rydalch's 3-pointer with 
Happy ZZnd Birthday LU LU! 
Elections will be held for the positions of President and Executive Vice-President of the Graduate Student Union for the 1992-93 academic year. 
All graduate student are eligible. 

Deadline for submission of application: March 30 
Public Forum with the Candidates: March 31 7:00PM Library Lounge 
Elections: April2 

Letters of application should include names, phone numbers, and on-campus addresses of both candidates on the ticket, and should be sent to: 
and the Mickey Club. 
Elections Committee Graduate Student Union 
220 LaFortune The following appointed positions will also be open: Vice-President for Administration Secretaly Social Officer 
Information Officer Send letters of application for these positions to the same address. All of the above positions, both elected and appointed, are paid. Ifyou have any questions, stop by the GSU office, or call239-6963. 

In the closing seconds, Curley missed an off-balance jumper with 17 seconds left, but the ball went out of bounds in favor of Boston College. Huckaby had a short jumper blocked out of bounds with eight seconds left, and his 16-footer bounced off the rim and the buzzer sounded as the teams battled for the rebound. 
The Rams had advanced Thursday by upsetting Vanderbilt 68-63. The victory over the Boston College gave the Atlantic-1 0 Conference a 2­0 post-season record over its neighbor, the Big East. Massachusetts beat Syracuse in the NCAA tournament. 
Wilson's free throws rally Utah past Arizona State 
Tuesday. "Our fans down there and our alumni have really been after us for several years to come back and play there, so we're excited about this." 
The winner between Purdue (18-14) and Florida (18-12) moves on to New York for semifinal play next week while the loser puts their uniforms away. 
"I suppose Florida wouldn't seem like it's far, but it's a neu­tral court," Keady said. 
Florida coach Lon Kruger, whose team defeated Pittsburgh on Monday, said the quarterfinal pairings might indicate that the NIT committee hoped to have Notre Dame and Purdue play in New York. 
Notre Dame is home for its third consecutive NIT game tonight against Manhattan. 
"I don't know about that," Keady said. ''I've been in the NIT two other times and I didn't know who they wanted. I think you've just got to win.... I don't know why they'd want Purdue any more than Florida." 
Keady remembers losing the last meeting with the Gators 85­66 in the second round of the 1987 NCAA East regional and said his team is in trouble if it looks past Florida. 
2:02 to play cut Arizona State's lead to 58-57. 
Neither side scored until Wilson was fouled and made the free throws that put Utah ahead. Rydalch then rebounded Smith's miss, was fouled and made one of two free throws for the final margin. 
Soto scored 11 points for the Utes, whose aggressive re­bounding gave them a 35-24 advantage. 
Utah also shot better than the Sun Devils, who had won seven of its last 11 games. The Utes hit 21 of 45 attempts. Arizona 

...
State hit 21 of 50. 
Utah, which won the NIT in 1944 and finished second in 1974, had not gotten past the tournament's first round until this year. The victory gave the Utes a 9-8 record in NIT play. 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Chased from their home court by the NCAA Women's Midwest Regional, Purdue moves a little south to meet Florida in the quarterfinals of the National Invitation Tournament tonight. 
Coach Gene Keady, whose team advanced by winning 
twice on its home court, doesn't think the game in Market Square Arena gives him an ad­vantage. 
"I've never coached a team there. Coach (Lee) Rose took Purdue there in 1980 in the Final Four," Keady said 
AP Photo 
Cornelius McNary leads Purdue into the NIT's third round matchups. 
TEMPE, Ariz. (AP) -Byron Wilson scored the last of his 16 points on two free throws with 25 seconds as Utah defeated Arizona State 60-58 on Tuesday night iu a second-round game of the National Invitation Tournament. 
Utah (22-10) rallied from a six-point deficit in the final 3 1/2 minutes to earn a home game against Rhode Island on Friday. 
Arizona State (19-14) got 24 points from freshman Mario Bennett, who scored his team's 
Paul Afeaki, who had 12 points and 10 rebounds, brought the Utes back with a 
first nine points of the second half. Stevin Smith added 16, in­cluding a 3-pointer at the half­time buzzer than gave the Sun Devils a 32-31 lead. 
Despite Bennett's flurry, the Utes came back to take a 43-42 lead on Phil Dixon's two free throws with 12:23 remaining. Wilson's three-point play 45 seconds later and Jimmy Soto's steal and layup with 10: 13 re­maining gave Utah a 48-42 lead. 
But Bennett hit a 3-pointer that started a 15-3 run which put Arizona State ahead 57-51 with 3:40 left. 

THE CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS 
PRESENTS JOHN BORMAN, ESQ. MEMBER, MINNESOTA LAWYERS INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE AND MEMBER, AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
ON "JEWS AND PALESTINIANS: A HUMAN RIGHTS PERSPECTIVE ON THE BUSH POLICY" THURSDAY, MARCH 26 4:00P.M. ROOM 110-LAW SCHOOL 
r-----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----------­
page 20 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•sports Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours
-
Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o 
LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, 
and the dates the brief is to run. 
•sports 
Writers are needed to cover Saint Mary's sports. Anyone interested should contact Saint Mary's sports editor Nicole McGrath at the Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball teams that are interested in playing against the Hall of Fame team should submit their proposals to the secretary in the Student Government office on the second floor o LaFortune no later than March 25. 

•women's 
Bookstore Basketball signups will be held March 


26. from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune and the lobby of Haggar Hall (SMC). The entry fee is $5 per team. Call Eileen or Tracy 283-1093 for questions and revised eligibility rules. 
•The Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon-Fri from 7 a.m. to 4 
p.m. and Sat-Sun from 1 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
•Bookstore Basketball captain's meeting is March 26, from 
7:30 to 9:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Attendance is necessary. Schedules and game rules will be distributed. 
•Irish 
Heartlights Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staff can pick up entry forms at HecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information. call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•The 
Rowing Club will have a very important meeting on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuland. Elections for ,next year will be held. If you owe money for Stevensons or T-shirts please bring it. Also, it you ordered Issue sweatshirts from last semester, they can be picked up in 313 Farley at 7 pm before the meeting. The price is $25. Any questions, call Nimi at 283-4023. 

•ND/SMC 
Synchronized Swim Club will present its third annual Spring Show on March 29 at 1:30 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Everyone is weleome and admission is free. 

•NIT 
Tickets for the Notre Dame-Manhattan College basketball game today will be on sale at both dining halls and at the JACC Gate 10 ticket office for the $4 student price. 


Spring 
continued from page 24 

"This spring practice is going to be very important and I know the players are looking forward to it." said Holtz. "We have an awful lot of veteran players and an awful lot of player~ that haven't played that much. 
The defense will be a combi­
.. nation of question marks and brilliance. The secondary re­turns several starters and the linebackers are also experi­enced, but the defensive line could be a problem. "I think our defense has a chance to be awful good. I think our outside linebackers will be solid. We've got a lot of experience there. The inside linebackers are very solid, but once again we concern our­selves with the defensive line," said Holtz. "We have a lot of question marks on defense in general, the defensive line in particular." Junior cornerback Tom Carter and junior free safety Jeff Burris will aid the sec­ondary with their experience, as will Clark when he returns. Freshman Germaine Holden went through the winter pro­
combine with juniors Karmeeleyah McGill and Nick Smith to aid fifth-year senior Devon McDonald and senior Demetrius DuBose with the linebacker chores. Junior Eric Jones and sophomore Bryant 

lrv Smith 
Young are coming off injuries, and their ability to return to top form is one of Holtz's question marks. 
On the offense, the Irish lost six starters off last year's team, three on the offensive line alone. Gone are Hall, McGuire, Jurkovic, Tony Smith, Dawson, and Brown. Spring practice will determine their replacements. 
"We are going to have to re­build an offensive line and I don't know where the answers are going to come from," said Holtz. "Some of the younger players are going to have to come forward on the offensive 
line and this gives me a great
gram at full speed and will 
I Smoking Stinks! 
Happy Birthday! sn't it nifty, Joan Radanovich is fl 
• 

Love, S.W.A.T 

The Observer 
Hoop 
continued from page 24 
matter what I say, people still don't seem to believe me one way or another," said Marciniak at the time. "My personal goals are put aside right now, I want the team to do well." 
Her announcement to trans­fer refuels speculation that Marciniak caused friction on the Notre Dame team. 
"She was very difficult to play with because she wasn't a team player," said senior captain Margaret Nowlin. 
Unlike their coach, most Irish players were not surprised by Marciniak's announcement and some showed hostility towards their former teammate. 
"We pretty much knew. It was an ongoing thing all year, " added guard Coquese Washington. "She wasn't happy." 
"Basically she just lied to us," said Nowlin. "Everyone went out of their way to help her. She didn't get the attention she wanted. She wanted all of the attention, all of the time." 
Gomez saw limited action for the Irish this season, due to a knee injury, but was impressive early in the season, where she saw action at both guard slots. 
Gomez made it clear that it was not any characteristic of Notre Dame or the women's basketball program which forced her to transfer, but 
deal of concern because I didn't 

rather personal reasons. 
"I have been very happy playing at Notre Dame," said the soft-spoken Gomez. "Being homesick, was the main reason, but I'm sure my injury was a factor." 
Marciniak has listed Tennessee, Penn State, Virginia and Rutgers as schools she is considering, Gomez was not as specific on her choices, put pointed towards Rutgers, be­cause of its proximity to her home. 
Marciniak's mother Betsy added that her daughter will not make a hasty decision when choosing her new school. 
"She will look at schools a lot 
Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
differently this time. I think she listened basically to recruiting words last time. This time she will talk to the girls and see where potential problems might be," she said. 
The departure of the two players will have a major effect on the Irish program, particu­larly in recruiting where McGraw and the rest of her staff will be forced to find play­ers to fill the vacancies. 
"We looked over a lot of play­ers the year we recruited Michelle," said McGraw. "Young players want to come in and play. We lost some players who saw the talented freshmen we 

see anyone that was close to ------------------------------------------. 
maturing a year ago. Someone is going to have to step forward and that it why it is going to be very interesting." 
In addition, receivers and the tailback position could pose some problems for the Irish. Returning is junior quarterback Rick Mirer who is heading into his third year as the starting quarterback. In the running corps, Mirer will have Sugar Bowl MVP sophomore Jerome Bettis, junior Reggie Brooks, and freshman Lee Becton, sophomore Dean Lytle, and freshman Ray Zellars. 
Receivers will be lacking with Dawson, Brown, and Tony Smith gone, but junior Irv Smith and Ray Griggs bring some experience to the corps. 
"Rick had a great deal of con­fidence in Tony (Smith) and we have to be able to develop his confidence in a new set of re­ceivers, because we would like to throw the ball a little more, but we are not going to be an aerial circus by any stretch of the imagination," said Holtz. 
The team will practice in pads on Thursday and the final three practices will be intra­squad scrimmages. 

Nominate your candidate for 
College ofEngineering Outstanding'Thacher 
Nominat:ion forms available in t:he St:u.dent: Ceot:er or u.se t:he form you. received in t:he mail 
Deadline for Nominations March 26, 1992 

Drop yourNominationat the Library or Engineering Deans Office 
LENT ISN'T OVER YET... 
GIVE OF YOURSELF FOR PEOPLE WHO NEED YOU! 
Y.W.CA  Needs volunteers on March 28,29 to tell about Y.W.C.A.'s services at an event at the JACC this weekend. Call Jan Halperin at 233-9491  
St. Joseph's Elem. School  Come play with kids K-6 as a childrcns aid with their "Latchkev Program" Call Bruce McDonald at 234-3134  
Memorial Hospital  Drive teen mothers to "Healthy Babies" Parenting Classes once a week. Call Gayle Caruthers at 282-8618  

5/10 K RUN "Students United in Running for Volunteerlsm" coming up next Thursday, in front of Angela @ SMC, 3:30 registration 
1-n:j---, 

SPONSORED BY SPES UNICA RESOURCE & VOLUNTEER CENTER
8~SPESUNICA
R£SOUlCE& 
VOLUNTEER 

250 Haggar College Center CENTER 
Notre Dame. IN 46556 
SAINTMAI!V"S 

219-284-5368 
COU£GE­


~pot _;:2<:' .rl",~"-" vP'~:-qnh._..,,, ,eV!e?oi'.~~~ ii 
O"S .~osa 

Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
The Observer 
page 21 

SMC tennis aces Aquinas College 

By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team 
(5-4) swept away Aquinas 
College (1-4) yesterday, 9-0. 
Senior Ellen Mayer led the 
Belles in the first singles posi­
tion defeating her opponent 
Mena Tobon, 6-2, 6-2. 
''I'm really pleased with Ellen's play at number one. She came back after a tough loss on Saturday," Coach Jo-Ann Nester said. 
Number two singles player Marie Koscielski, also a senior, beat Kelly Conneely 6-2, 4-6, 6­
4. 
Sophomore Mary Cosgrove and junior Natalie Kloepfer, ranked three and four topped, Kate Gilbert and Jennifer Shaw, 6-1, 6-0. Sophomore Thayma Darby also won cruising past Holly Beers 6-0. 6-0. 
Freshman Andrea Ayers pulled out her second win of the season against Michelle Meeusen, 6-3, 6-4. "This is two in a row for her," Nester said. "She keeps getting stronger now that she knows she can win on the college level." 
In doubles play, Mayer and Koscielski defeated Tobon and 
The Observer/M. Schropp A St Mary's tennis player serves in the Belles win over Aquinas College 
Shaw in number one doubles, Schneider 6-0, 6-0. The win 6-3, 6-3. The second duo of kept the third doubles team un­Cosgrove and Ayers beat defeated this season. Conneely and Beers, 6-1, 6-1. The Belles face Hope College 
Darby and junior Shannon on Saturday. The game will McGinn also were successful take place in Holland, Michigan topping Allison Dean and Jill at 1:00 p.m. 
The Official Class of 1992 
~.::; 

"Once in a Lifetime" Stein r;-:!t· ---' 
II 
·~ 


White Ceramic with Blue and Gold Trim & Letters -~~~~ or ( Blue Ceramic with ornate Gold Trim & Lettering 
Order in North & South Dining Halls & in the Huddle 
Personalize Your Stejn: 
With your name, School or a Message. 
On Sale: March 26th thru April 3rd From 11 :OOam to 1:OOpm Personalizations Add $ 3.00
$ 15.00 Per Stein 
4 Week Delivery 
The Notre Dame Finance Club 
presents 

The 34th Annual 
Finance Forum 
Featuring Speakers: 
Mark Van Grinsven and Philip DelaneyJr. 
from the Northern Trust Company 
Thursday 7p.m. University Club Auditorium 
Refreshments served afterwards 
Softball team looks to rebound against Ball St. 
BY JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame softball 
squad {10-9) will have some­
thing to prove when they step 
on Alumni Field today at 3:00 
against Ball State (8-1 0-1). 
The Cardinals downed the 
Irish twice last weekend in 
Terre Haute and took first-place 
in Indiana State's Sycamore 
Classic tournament. Senior 
hurler Karen Oliver baffled 
Notre Dame's offense with a no­
hitter, allowing just two base­
runners, as BSU took the first 
game 3-0. 

The following day in the championship game, Oliver teased the Irish by giving up three runs early. She then frus­trated them, holding them scoreless as the Cardinals tied the game in the seventh and fi­nally put across the game-win­ner in the ninth. 
Oliver, a fifth year senior from Cedar Lake, In., also pitched a no-no last season and had been leading the Mid-American Conference in strikouts (96) before going down with an injury late in the season. 
But Irish assistant coach Liz Miller detected the reason for Oliver's dominance. "She relied on her riser, and we were chas­ing it out of the strike zone. ln the second game against her, we started laying off and she got frustrated," said Miller, who 
hopes for continual progress 
against the Cards' number-one 
starter. 
Behind Oliver, Ball State's 
pitcing staff offers only junior 
Polly France (6-16, 3.67 ERA 
last year) and freshman Jodi 
Irwin. 
The Irish will be relying on 
the hot bats of shortstop Ruth 
Kmak, second-baseman Christy 
Connoyer, first-baseman 
Stephanie Pinter and outfielder 
Sara Hayes, who hit a homer off 
Oliver in the first inning of the 
second game. Hayes' "power 
stick" has been moved from 
leadoff to third in the lineup. 
On the mound, the Irish hope to be healthy enough just to make it through the twinbill. Senior Missy Linn (virus) and junior Staci Alford (ankle) are both less than 100-percent. 
Sophomore Carrie Miller, 1-4 on the year, will need to pick up the slack. While solid at the plate, Miller has yet to pitch the way she did as a freshman (10­6, 1.41 ERA). At times, though, she has been victimized by lack of offensive support like the rest of the staff. Freshman Aimee Terry could also see action today. 
Notre Dame had an extra day to recover, as their twinbill scheduled for Tuesday at UIC was cancelled. Thursday, they hit the high road again, this time for the Southern Invitational in Birmingham, AI. 

-
.... 
-


Marten 
continued from page 24 
job was in jeopardy. In the South Bend Tribune on February 18, McGraw and Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal denied the Sun­Times report. 
The freshmen recruits 
NIT 

continued from page 24 
the ACC, the Jaspers fell 86-60 to the Redmen at home. Notre Dame defeated LaSalle 87-79 in Philadelphia. 
During the regular season, Manhattan split with LaSalle, dropping a 90-67 decision after earning a 67-65 nailbiter in late January. 
The Jaspers have been im­pressive of late in close games. 
leaving Notre Dame could have ramifications in recruiting. McGraw is in the process of recruiting right now and it is unlikely that this will win any top recruits to Notre Dame. Only time will tell how far­reaching the effects will be. 
And the downfall of Notre Dame women's basketball con­tinues. 
Though LaSalle one-upped the Jaspers in the MAAC final, Manhattan reversed its luck in first-round NIT action, as Tony Bennett's 36 were not enough for Wisconsin-Green Bay, as the Jaspers took a 67-65 win. 
Monday night, the Jaspers' Chris Williams, who played only 15 minutes, made a coast to coast drive and hit a layup as time expired, giving Manhattan the 62-61 win over Rutgers. 
Student tickets are available for $4 at the ACC ticket office and both dining halls today. 


Lottery for Bulls Tickets in Senior Class Office 23rd 3-Spm, 24th 2-4pm, 25th 3-5pm 
Each winning number can buy 2 tickets@ $20 each for the April 13th game vs. Atlanta Hawks 
Winners will be announced March 30. Limit 4 IDs per person. 


page 22 The Observer Wednesday, March 25 , 1992 

Taliaferro, H. Piper finish strong in NCAA tourney 
... 
SHEER MADNESS

U 

Wednesday, March 25 -Buses leave LeMans Circle at 6p.m. 
~ Tickets $15 ~ Includes admission and transportation to and from Chicago For Ticket Information contact 
Tamie Petak or Tammy Malopsy at 284-5081 Sponsored by the Student Activities Board/Cultural Events 
Rizzo, Comstock fair well 
-
at national championships 
By RENE FERRAN Sports Writer 
The ND/SMC Synchronized Swimming Club recently com­pleted its most successful sea­son ever in its brief five-year history. 
The team sent two swimmers to the National Collegiate Synchronized Swimming Championships this past week­end held at Wheaton College in Norton, Mass. 
ND/SMC finished 15th out of 20 schools overall. Ohio State won its 10th national champi­onship in 11 years with 100 to­tal points, far outdistancing ND/SMC's five. 
Sophomore Nicole Rizzo fin­ished 19th in the "B" figures competition, earning the team's only five points. Fellow sopho-
BY JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
You would think that instead of enjoying a fourth-place finish at the NCAA Championships, the Notre Dame fencers would be wondering about what might have been. 
What could have been if former national champion Jubba Beshin would not have taken the year off to concen­trate on academics. What might have been if last year's bronze medalist, senior David Calderhead, had not sustained serious injuries in a motorcycle accident just three days before the championships. 
However, the Irish are actu­ally just happy to see Calderhead out of the hospital and in good spirits, and they are extremely proud of their finish in the NCAA's. 
A seventh-place finish in the women's foil team competition on Friday put a monkey wrench in Notre Dame's plans for a ti­tle, and they were never able to recover after that. Defending national champ Heidi Piper could only lead the Irish women so far, as the Temple Owls claimed the women's title over the team that eliminated the Irish, Penn State. 
In fact, Piper gave the team so much in the team event that she had nothing left for the in­dividual competition, and she 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 
more Kevyn Comstock took 42nd among the 56 participants in the draw. 
In the duet portion of the meet, Rizzo and Comstock fin­ished 17th among 21 pairs. 
This was the first time in team history that ND/SMC sent two swimmers to the national finals. Rizzo represented the club at last year's meet. 
According to club co-presi­dent Ann Ball, the team's per­formance at Nationals reflects the growth the sport has had on campus since forming five years ago. 
"We didn't even compete against other schools our first year," she explained. "And now that we're part of RecSports (this is the first year that the club has received funding from RecSports), we want to see our program grow even 
finished fourth. Senior Rachel 
Haugh also captured a 24th 
place finish for the Irish. 
"Heidi gave us as much as she could give," said Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. "She didn't let anybody down." 
The men's foil team's fourth­place finish brought the Irish up a bit in the standings, and it was courtesy of excellent per­formances from junior captain Jeff Piper and seniors Mike Trisko and Ed Lefevre. Piper and Trisko also finished 25th and 26th in the individual com­petition. 
Next up was the sabre com­petition, where the Irish figured to make a run at the title. The sabremen ended up third, but James Taliaferro earned All­American honors with a fourth­place finish. In the last tour­nament for the Baguer broth­ers, who between them have over 200 career victories, Ed was named a second-team All­American (11th place), and Chris finished 24th. 
To this point in the tourna­ment it was obvious that the Irish had their minds on things other than fencing. They were missing an emotional leader and captain in Calderhead, and many of their thoughts were with him. 
However, Calderhead sur­prised everyone by showing up at the epee team competition 
further-maybe even become Show this Sunday at the Rolfs varsity." Aquatic Center at 1:30 p.m. The The club is holding its third show will highlight the different annual Synchronized Swimming routines the team performed 
,..,.1 .... 
James Taliaferro 
yesterday. Never mind that he couldn't help them out by fenc­ing, his discharge from the hospital to watch his team­mates in action touched them. It was an emotional moment. 
So emotional that the epee team did not lose a match after his arrival, beating MIT and strong NYU and Princeton teams to finish a surprising fifth, Senior Ben Finley, sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak, 


AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 1 0 STUDENTS PER CLASS. 
SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARAnON COURSE FOR SUMMER lSAT 
This example of personalized attention 1S Just one of the reasons our classes are filling up fut Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 


• 
Live 1\Jtorial Available At No Extra Charge 


EDICATIOIAL SIOIP 

• National 800 Telephone Helpline ­
27~18b6
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice £xams 
U7 US 31 NORTH 
• Constantly Updated Materials 
Acrou from Knights Inn Suite 210 

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
and freshman Per Johnson all won several spirited matches and provided the moment of the tournament. 
"They came to life," noted Coach DeCicco. "He was their coach and they really got emo­tionally charged after he showed up." 
Obviously the team wished that he could have been fencing, but the competition pales in comparison to a teammate's health. 
"After the accident, he was upset he let the team down. He didn't let the team down," said DeCicco. "From that moment, we had to worry more about Dave as a human being than as a fencer." 
In addition to the epee team's triumph, the team's overall fin­ish was also satisfying, consid­ering the fact that last year's team was much more talented during the season, including two duets, one trio, and a solo exhibition by Rizzo. Admission is free. 
and only finished third. 

"This finish is much more satisfying than last year," noted DeCicco. "They didn't have the talent this year and they finished fourth. That's a pretty good result." 
Columbia captured the title, their fourth in the last six years. They topped two-time defending champion Penn State on the last day of the competi­tion, thanks to an epee team ti­tle. 
As far as Notre Dame goes, they are confident that a re­turning All-American in Taliaferro and a return captain like Jeff Piper will fuel another run towards the title next year. 
They also are expecting a stellar recruiting class, un­doubtedly hoping that they too may one day provide more touching moments like this year's eppe team's inspired fin­ish. 

... """'.... I I ~,.. • ' P-. •"14 • • 
Today ­
Wednesday, March 25, 1992 page 23 
CROSSWORD
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
CALVIN, Ct>.N '(OJ T£LL \.l5 W\\,._T L£'tl\S f>.NO CLAR.I<. DID? 
THE FAR SIDE 
NO, B\JT I CAN RECITE 11-\E SECRET SV~R\\ERo ORIGIN 0~ EK\-1 MEMBER C$ CA\'11>.\N NAPfi\..\1\S T\1£RI<\O· NOC\.B>.R \.EA!QI£ 
a' llBERI'I . 

I CAN'T i3bU€'J6 "ffiiS! 
I WbRK MY lQUTr oFF 
1() MAKf NDTREDAME 
me M05T A-m11161lc. 
CAMPUS ARDO/ILD 
AND FLDRENZD 
Gers A(,.L nt6 
CRGDIT.I! ""­
St:E Mt. f>. FltR CLr>.%, CAL\J\N. 
GARY LARSON SPIN 
JAY HOSLER 
BILL WATTERSON 
I'M NCll D\li'IIB. I J\JSI 
Hfl.-1/t. A COMMP.ND C)F 
11-\0ROIJGI.\\..'i \.lS£.\.£S'S 
IN~RM~TioN.. 
JOHN MONKS 


MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Cheese Enchiladas Tacos Baked New Zealand Spaghetti & Meatballs Whiting Tamales Chiminchangas 
.------------------·-------------------­
... 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW84-25 
ACROSS 
1 Short and thick 
6 Half of a Washing­ton city 
11 Rejected 

13 Flemish painter 
15 Cargo worker 
16 Pulver's rank 
17 Scottish digit 
18 Lax 
20 Espy 

21 A president and a reverend 23 Oozes 24 Luminous radiation 25 Accounting paper column 
27 "Monopoly" property (abbr.) 28 Miscalculated 29 Concurrence 31 Comforted 33 Sell 35 Movie or TV show 36 Makes 39 Ed Norton's 
workplace
43 Cut of beef 

44 Greek letter 
46 Small crane 47 Tennis replays 48 Throng 50 U. of Penn. rival 51 Homonym for a 
conjunction52 Narrates again 54 Moisture 55 Rodin output 57 Acts out of line 59-fiddle 60 Hidden marksmen 61 Result of an auto 
accident 62 Tales of romance 
DOWN 
1 Body organs 2 Status ---­3 River into the 
Caspian 4 Major mountain 
chain 5 Adolescent 6 Songbirds 7 "Charley's ----" 12 Household 
appliances 14 Golf hall-of-farner 15 City in New York 19 -salts 22 -Institute of 
Technology 24 Kind of entrance 26 -preview 28 Let up 30 Dynamite 32 -Palmas 34 Station 36 Like track shoes 37 Mad s·cramb1e 
(2 wds.) 38 Pieces 40 Dodgers 41 James Whitcomb, and 
family 42 Goulashes 43 Dental ---­45 Standing still 48 Takes notice of 49 Famous cow 52 Contemptible person 
8 Weight abbreviation 53 Works like a paper

9 Spare time towel 10 Irate 56 Heavy weight11 Desert denizens 58 Use OTB 
CAMPUS 

WEDNESDAY 
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Book Sale. Concourse, Hesburgh library. 
12:15 p.m. "Peace Breaks Out," Stephen Moriarty, presenter. C.S.C. Sponsored by the World Peace Action Group. 
THURSDAY 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Book Sale. Concourse, Hesburgh library. 
LECTURES Wednesday 4 p.m. Lecture Series: Rediscovering our Roots: History and Traditions of Saint Mary's College, "From a School of Four Orphans to a College." Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy. Stapleton Lounge. 4 p.m. "The Role of a liberal Arts Education in the Business World." Andrew J. McKenna, president and CEO of Schwarz Paper Co. and Chairman of the ND Board of Trustees. 
Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society.  Foster  
Room, LaFortune.  
7 p.m.  Spring Forum.  "Trade in the Pacitic Rim."  Kevin  

Gates, Australian Consulate GeneraL Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. 8 p.m. "Gay Politics in the Nineties." Michael Ughty, national director of the Democratic Socialist of America. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune. 
---------------·---------·----------. 
JUNGLE lP'EvER 
Friday, March 28 Saturday, March 29
sleeping with 
Cushing Auditorium
the enemy 
Admission is $2 "A TERRIFYINGLY GOOD ROMANTIC 8 PM & 10:30 PM THRILLER!" 
PAT COlLINS, WWOR-TY, NEW YORK 

• 
Thursday, March 27 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


-Sports 
page 24 
JENNY MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 


Questions linger on future of womens' basketball team 
Question of the week: what happened to Notre Dame women's basketball? After completing a 20-win season last year and appearing in the AP and USA women's basketball top-25 polls for the first time in history, the team has fallen to a new low as the team's top two freshmen have
..... 
decided to transfer from the university. 
Both Michelle Marciniak and Audrey Gomez announced plans this week to leave the Notre Dame. Marciniak came to Notre Dame as a USA Today first team selection and the Naismith Player of the Year award while Gomez was a fourth team Street and Smith's selection. 
Marciniak was a major contributor to tlw Irish team this year as was Gomez before injuring her knee. Marciniak played almost every game for the Irish averaging 12.1 points per game. Gomez only played in a limited number of games. 
Last year. despite a 23-6 season and a Midwestern Collegiate Conference championship, the Irish were deemed unworthy of an NCAA bid. Everything went downhill from there. As the top seed in the National Women's Invitational Tournament, Notre Dame went to Amarillo. TX and lost three straight games for an eighth place finish in the tournament. 
The Irish struggled again in 1992, starting out the year 4-12 and finishing a disappointing 14-17. The Irish were one of the top underachieving teams in the country this year never quite living up to their potential. 
Where does that leave Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw? 
The coach has amassed several honors in her five year career at ND. In 1987-88, the coach was named North Star Conference Coach of the Year. Her teams have been MCC champions in the last four years and she was picked as MCC Coach of the Year in 1990-1991. 
Now her top two recruits have decided to leave the school, one for a school with a bigger and better basketball program and the other for personal reasons. 
The departure of Marciniak and Gomez have raised questions about McGraw's job status, but McGraw is not worried. 
"I have talked to the Athletic Director. Players transfering is not how they detnrmine if a coach is successful," said McGraw about her job situation. 
I think there is a major problem if a coach can't keep rncruits for more than a year. Especially when Marciniak called McGraw the most impressive person she's ever met in the Marciniak file in the women's basketball media guide. 
Humors about McGraw's status have been surfacing all year. In the February 20 edition of the Observer, it was reported that two weeks earlier the Chicago Sun-Times stated that McGraw's 
see MARTEN/page 21 
INSIDE SPORTS 

• 
•Fencers 
finish strong. see page 22 

•SMC 
tennis tops Aquinas college see page 21 

•softball 
team to host Ball St. see page 21 

•NIT 
Roundup see page 19 

•Jordan 
leads Chicago past Nuggets see page 18 


Wednesday, March 25, 1992 
Manhattan visits JACC in NIT third-round matchup 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR LaPhonso Ellis, who is strength lies in their outside Associate Sports Editor coming off of a career-high shooting. Starting guards eight-bloek performance Russ Williams and Charles When Notre Dame hosts its against Kansas State. Dubra lead the team with 
final home game tonight, the "He (Ellis) is proving to 41.7 and 43.0 percent, people that he has another respectively, from three-point dimension to his game," said range. MacLeod. "Not only can he "Manhattan has shot 448 play with his back to the three-point shots, which is basket, but he can shoot the really going to stretch our ball, he can block shots, he defense," said MacLeod. can defensively rebound, he "And it's a club that's 25-8 can outlet the pass and he and is making a tremendous runs like a small forward." run here." 
Bullock, a 6-7. 235-pound The Jaspers have won junior. will provide the eight of their last 10 contests. biggest mass in the Jasper The team's only two losses lane with the likely absence during the stretch came at of freshman center Jamal the hands of LaSalle. The Marshall, who has missed latter was a 77-76 loss to the the first two NIT contests. Explorers in the MAAC 
"Keith Bullock a tournament final. tremendous post-up player Notre Dame shares two inside," said MacLeod. "He common opponents with also has range to about 15 Manhattan. While the Irish feet." defeated St. John's, 79-70, at 
with 

But the Jaspers' primary 
see NIT/page 21 
Womens' hoop loses top freshmen 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Marciniak. "It got to a point this Sports Writer year where I wasn't having fun. and I knew I needed a change." 
Michelle Marciniak and "I am very homesick, and un­Audrey Gomez, two of the most happy out here," said <;omez, a highly touted prep players ever New Jersey native. to play for the Notre Dame womens' basketball team In Marciniak's case, the re­announced they were port shocked McGraw, consid­transfering from the university. ering weeks earlier the fresh­
man guard had attempted to 
Both freshmen were penciled dispel rumors of her supposed in as starters in the Irish back­transfer. court for years due to the acco­"The announcement came as lades they received at the high a complete surprise to us," school level. Marciniak was stated McGraw. "Especially Street & Smith and Naismith after stating in the paper that player of the year and was she was staying at Notre Dame, named first team all-American and appeared so happy at the on virtually every list. Gomez end of the season." compiled some impressive stats of her own, earning all­The statements McGraw was American and all-state honors. referring to appeared in the 
February 20th edition of The 
The team and coach Muffet Observer. Marciniak answered McGraw were formally notified questions in the article of the two players intentions concerning a possible transfer. after Sunday's annual banquet. and the fragile relationship 
Both players cited their un­between herself, McGraw. and happiness as the reasoning for the rest of the Irish squad. The Observer/John Rock their decision to transfer. "I all) not going anywhere. No Michelle Marciniak, shown here celebrating the MCC title, is 
"I love basketball too much to one of two freshmen leaving the womens' basketball team. not have fun playing it," said see HOOP/page 20 
Holtz to look for answers in spring practice 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
With hopefully the last piles of snow melting away, the spring will officially get under way in terms of Notre Dame football, with the first spring practice today. 
The spring practice session will be an opportunity for the Irish to answer questions, fill spots, and prepare for next year. 
"We have some concerns as we enter 1992. We had an outstanding winter program. I have a lot of young football players in and some new coaches. One thing is obvious, we have some talent," said Noter Dame coach Lou Holtz. 
One of the larger concerns for the Irish will be replacing lost lettermen and those players who will not be participating in spring football for various reasons. Notre Dame will have to replace 13 lettermen including All-American tight end Derek Brown, All-American guard Mirko Jurkovic, center Gene McGuire, split end Tony Smith, tailbacks Rodney Culver and Tony Brooks, and strong safety Rod Smith. 
Injuries have claimed junior Todd Stoker, junior William Pollard, sophomore LeShane Saddler, junior Brian Ratigan, junior Craig Hentrich, and freshman Shawn Wooden. Senior Justin Hall and sophomore Willie Clark will not participate for academic reasons while Lake Dawson is out for personal reasons. The Observer/A.G. Schwartz 
see SPRING/ page 20 Wilie Clark will be one of the Irish football players absent from Spring practice. 





