
--~·---------­

~·~ 
. -QS· 
1442·1992 5E S QUIC E PHf NNIAL 

e Observer SaintMa~SCd~ 


Cheney plans National Guard a11d reserve cuts 
VOL. XXIV NO. 119 

Corporation helps poor afford homes 
By KATHLEEN ZIEGLER 
News Writer 
The poor have the power to choose, design, and manage af­fordable housing through the Westminister Corporation in Minneapolis and St. Paul, according to Steve Thomas, acting senior vice president and corporate operating officer. 
After a brief experience with the Human Resource As­sociation and Department of Corrections in New York City, Thomas, a 1978 Notre Dame graduate, decided he wanted a different job where he could initiate positive change. 
"I witnessed a very patron­izing approach concerning the homeless with these organiza­tions, he said, "as if those in social service were doing those less fortunate a favor." 
Thomas decided that a workable housing solution would be created by working from the bottom up. 
"We base our system on the concept of resident empower­ment," he said, explaining that he feels the success rate will be higher if the people who will use the housing are consulted. 
Thomas enumerated a five­point strategy concerning Westminster's affordable housing. He emphasized that the members of Westminster Corporation are not the owners of the housing. 
"We set up an ownership council where the homeowners make up half of the board. This way, the people who are recipients of the housing are in control of management," 
Thomas said. 
Westminster provides not only housing but also a pack­age of-services including child­care, job training, and self-es­teem programs. 
"We do this in hopes of not looking for immediate results but long-time change with resi­dents," he said. 
The corporation demands quality management, he said, and he criticized the lack of 
see HOUSING/ page 4 

WASHINGTON (AP) -De­fense Secretary Dick Cheney to­day targeted nearly 140,000 National Guard and reserve jobs to be eliminated this year and next. He said they should be cut to achieve balance with the already shrinking active duty force. 
"That's the only way we can preserve a quality force," Ch­
• Responses from soldiers I page 9 eney told a Pentagon news con­
ference. 
He estimated the initial cuts would affect 830 guard and re­serve units in all 50 states, af­fecting a total of 139,488 slots. Over the next five years, the re­serve and guard forces would be reduced by 234,000, at a savings of $20 billion. 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'People auction' 
raises $30,000 

for scholarships 
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 

Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz scored a different kind of victory Thursday night in front of a capacity crowd-by bringing in $25,000 at a charity "People Auction." 
Holtz was one of over 7 5 campus celebrities who volunteered to be auctioned at the event sponsored by Hall Presidents' Council (HPC). Proceeds from the auction will benefit the Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp Memorial Scholarship funds. 
Estimates after the auction put the total over $30,000 according to Margaret Haugh and Jennifer Swize, organizers. The total includes cash donations and money earned from the sale of over 450 raffie tickets. 
The amount is over 10 times the anticipated results, according to Swize. 
"If anybody would have asked me how much I thought we would have made, I would have said $1,000," Swize said. 
Theodore's was filled beyond capacity for the event. "I'm in shock. The support is just overwhelming," Haugh said. 
The bidding war for Holtz was fierce, in part due to the efforts of auctioneer Eric Stach, a senior from Keenan. After two students pushed the bid to $18,000, Holtz offered a compromise: he'd "sell himself" to both for $25,000. 
Notre Dame sophomore Todd McNamee and freshman Kirsten Edmundson each presented HPC officers with a check for $12,500. 
Raghib "Rocket" Ismail followed his former coach as the second-highest money maker by raising $800 for the scholarships. University President Father Edward Malloy was sold for $700, while President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh went for $575. 
Irish basketball coach John Macleod sold for $250 and former Indiana Professor of the Year Tom Morris was purchased for $150. 
Several students helped the cause by putting themselves on the block. Ismail turned the tables by purchasing former teammate Rodney Culver for $551, making Culver the highest paid student. 
The women's cheerleading squad sold for $240, the Irish Guard for $100, and the porn pon squad for $60. Irish fullback Jerome Bettis and basketball guard Elmer Bennett, attending the auction as specta­tors, took the stage as improptu auctionees. The Bettis/Bennett combination brought in
The Observer/llndrew McCloskey 
$270.

LeMans in the moonlight 
The new beat out the old when 1992-93 
LeMans Hall, the largest building on Saint Mary's campus, will be one of the many beautiful Student Body President and Vice President 
buildings that parents vis~ during Junior Mothers' Weekend starting today at Sc;.int Mary's. 
see AUCTION/ page 4 
Cheney applauded the "indispensable" role of tens of thousands of guardsmen and reservists who were ordered to active duty during the Persian Gulf War. 
"The guard and reserve will continue to be an absolutely vi­tal part" of the overall Ameri­can military, which is being shrunk in response to the Cold War's end, he said. 
He said 80 percent of the proposed cuts announced today were units specifically designed to supplement and support ac­tive-duty forces designated for war against the former Soviet­led Warsaw Pact in Europe. 
Cheney said the cumulative cuts in guard and reserve forces between 1992 and 1997 would be 234,000, but today he 


Dick Cheney 

identified units to be cut only in 1992 and 1993. 
Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, ap­pearing with Cheney, said the proposed cuts were in line with changes in the global political environment. 
"We are not out to decimate the reserve component," Powell said. 
Even before the list was re­lea:;ed, opposition to the cuts mounted in Congress, which mu:;t give its approval. 
"The National Guard and Re­serve are invaluable national ass<Jts, but we are cutting the sizE· of the entire military force, botn active duty and reserve," ChEney said in a statement ac­companying the list, which was obtained in advance from con­gressional sources. 
Service by service, the cut­backs roughly would look like this: 
•80,000 
from the Army Na­tional Guard and 45,000 from the Army Reserve. 

•10,500 
from the Navy Re­


serve. 
•2,700 
from the Marine Corps Reserve. 

•740 
from the Air Force Re­serve. 


The Air National Guard is the only part of the reserves not facing cuts. 
States hardest hit are Cali­fornia, with the loss of 12,775 people; Massachusetts, 8,473; Michigan, 7,212; New York, 9 ,865; Ohio, 8,041; Wisconsin, 6,546 and Illinois, 5,879. 
Among the largest facilities on the hit list are the 40th Mechanized Division in Califor­nia and the lOth Armored Cav­alry Regiment in Ohio. 
The Pentagon estimates that the reductions will save $2.1 billion in personnel, operations and equipment costs in the fis­cal year beginning Oct. 1. 
page 2 Friday, March 27, 1992 
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Anonymity is 

the epitome of 
Christianity 

I was walking down the------­
quad the other day, when 
someone yelled to me, 
"Hey Garr, we talked 
about your last article 
today In my Christian 
ethics class." I knew the 
professor must have hated 
It, and she made the R.GarrSchwanz 
confirmation, "Yea, he Photographer 
said you need counseling." 
As I laughingly walked away, I thought to 
myself, "He's probably rlght-1 do need 
counseling." Of course, I do not think I have 
ever met anyone I did not think needed 
counseling. That includes a lot of the priests 
around here. 
Fortunately, I have been receiving counsel­Ing from everyone. I find It funny how people have attempted to enlighten me. I have gotten phone calls and mail from aU kinds of people. Most people attack me, make assumptions, and get off on tangents I have not mentioned or have the space to defend. I have been told I am going to hell. I have been Invited in for counseling. I have had people tell me they are going to pray for me. There so many people praying for me right now, even if my convictions against Christianity are wrong, I should be able to do whatever I want to and get away with it. 
An even funnier fact, people have been sending my parents anonymous letters con­taining my articles. I guess they think I am a situational person who acts and says things differently in different surroundings. I assume these people feel I do not talk to my parents llUUUt whllt I write. l uifet that these people think my parents would not allow for a dissenting opinion. 
One of my critics stated that we are not men and women yet, and that we are all still "Catholic boys and girls." I guess he is im­plying there are still a lot of people on this campus who have not learned how to talk to their parents as an equal, but remain a subordinate in their conversations. 
Well, something is wrong if students in college have not grown up enough yet to converse with their parents beyond an ado­lescent level. While my parents disagree with most everything I write, they allow me to think as I wish. 
I do not permit anyone, including my parents, to restrict my thinking or force unwanted views upon me. I am not advocat­Ing disrespect, but advocating a mutual re­spect for differences of opinion. 
Anonymous letters are the epitome of Christianity, attempts to scare people Into conformity with punishments and Inconsis­tency between words and actions. My only attempt Is to unite my words with my actions. 
I am not a reflection of the sector of Christianity that prays in a church and to a god, but sign their names "Anonymous" to actions that are arbitrary to Christian doc­trine. I am not a representation of people who send anonymous letters, people who are afraid of their actions. I do not sign my name "Anonymous" to anything I write or anything I do; I am who I am. My only goal is to recognize and to become completely and exactly who I am. There are too many things wrong with this "Christian" society of Notre Dame for me to want to become anything else. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Unes s eparate hi gh temper ature zo nes for t he day.  
PrBSSure H L HIGH LOW  ~ SHOWERS  ~ RAIN  !Til T-STORMS  EZJ FLURRIES  rn SNOW  ~ ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  


CAM»US 

•NO RE AME -Univers president, Edward Malloy, h appointed Matthew Cullinan as special assistant. Cullinan is a 198 Notre Dame graduate and worked at the Center for and International Studies Washington, D.C.; Cullinan also a master's degree from Notre Dame in history and another master's from Duke in public policy. During his postgraduate stay at Notre Dame, Cullinan acted as resident assistant and assistant rector in Sorin Hall and as a graduate teaching assistant in the history department. 
VIa AsiJOCillled Ptrlu 
Of INTEREST 
ORECAST: 
Cloudy and cold with a 30 percent chance of snow. Highs in the mid 30's. Cloudy and cold Saturday, high in the 
lower 40's. TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
City  H  L  
Athens  73 46  
Boston  54 36  
Cairo  79 50  
Chicago  51  33  
Cleveland  53 42  
Dallas  50 39  
Denver  62 35  
Havana  80 50  
Indianapolis  57 38  
London  48 43  
Madrid  59 32  
Minneapolis  48 33  
Moscow  43 39  
Nashville  64 43  
New York  56 44  

Philadelphia 58 42 Rome 54 48 San Francisco 72 58 91.11811'd :!; 3) Tokyo 55 52 Washington 50 44 

Students recjeye scholar awards 
•NOTRE DAME -University of Notre Dame juniors Kathleen Collins and Thomas Nevins have received Younger Scholar Awards from the National Endowment for the Humanities. Two of just 159 award winners nationwide, Collins and Nevins will participate in nine­week projects this summer with the support of $2,000 grants from the NEH. Collins will undertake a study titled "The Role of Mikhail Gorbachev in the Decline and Fall Of Communism in the Soviet Union." Nevins will study the work of philosopher Alisdair Mcintyre in n project titled "The Role of Community in Moral Virtue: Mcintyre's Use of Plato." Collins and Nevins were selected from more than 880 applicants from universities across the nation. 
•The Asian American Association will sponsor a dance party tonight from 9:30 p.m. to 1 a.m. at Theodore's in LaFortune Student Center as part of its membership drive. 
IIJudlclal Council Assistant applications are due in the student government office today. 
liThe Center for Women's Alliance will hold an open house Saturday from 10:30 a.m. to 12 p.m. In LeMans Vendoland. Refreshments will be provided. 
•Auditions 
for the Black play will be held at 3 p.m. on Saturday in the lab theatre of Washington Hall. Please enter through the rear door of the building and go to the only door on the third floor. If you have questions, call Sherry at 289-7829. 

•Spanish 
Club will be selling 15 reduced-price tickets for the International Student Festival on Saturday at the LaFortune information desk. Tickets will be sold on a rrrst come, first served basis. 

•Pomerlum 
Muslces, a vocal ensemble specializing in Renaissance music, will perform Catholic sacred music of the late Middle Ages in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


MARKET UPDATE 
• 
In 1941: In Yugoslavia, the army overthrew the government and arrested the two officials who had signed a new treaty with the Axis nations. 

• 
ln1943: The U.S. proposed an Allied government to rule Indochina in place of the French. 

• 
lin 1964: New York police revealed the fact that the neighbors who witnessed the murder of Kitty Genovese were indifferent and did nothing to help her. 

• 
In 1979: The Arab League agreed to take steps against Egypt for its signing of a peace treaty with Israel. 

• 
In 1981: The Polish labor group Solidarity held a four-hour nationwide strike. 

• 
In 1990: The U.S. began test broadcasts of TV Marti to 


Saturday at 8 p.m. 

•A 
Spanish mass will be held Sunday at 10 a.m. in the Breen-Phillips Chapel. 

•A 
concert of 20th century music sponsored by The Notre Dame Department of Music will be held Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. The concert -will feature The Notre Dame String Trio and Georgine Resick, soprano soloist, with music graduate students. 

•A 
memorial mass for Julie Ganther will be held on Sunday at 4:30 p.m. in the Pasquerilla East Chapel. 

•"What's 
the future of this relationship?" a workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore marriage and other future decisions will be held Sunday from 12:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. Applications can be picked up at the Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office or the Library Concourse. 

•Student 
residences, located in 311 Main Building, will remain open during the lunch hour to better serve the student body. New hours begin Monday. 


ON THIS DAVIN HISTORY 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author. 
Friday's taff: Productton Sports Peggy Crooks Jason Kelly Bryan Nowicki Accent News Meredith McCullough Sandy Wiegand Kenya Johnson Bevin Kovalik Chrissy Prask 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, March 27, 1992 
War ethics conference planned 
By MATTHEW MILLER News Writer 
Steve Fuller, a member of the ROTC and Peace Studies pro­grams at Notre Dame, found the roles difficult to reconcile, and he bas helped organize a conference to address his questions. 
A conference discussing "Conscience Passivism vs. the Just War Theory" will be held Saturday from 1 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center, accord­ing to Steve Fuller, the orga­nizer of the event. 
The two main speakers at the conference will be Gordon Zahn and Professor Todd Whitmore. 
The first goal of the semi­nar is to instigate an open dia­logue between ROTC and Peace Studies students, Fuller said, and the second goal is to dis­cuss issues of conscience. "We are going to be the next gener­ation of leaders in this country. We need to critically examine ourselves, to examine where we've come from, and to exam­ine where we want to go in the future," said Fuller. 
The organizers of the event expect 45 to 55 people to at­tend the seminar. Gordon Zahn, the founder of Pax Christi, an organization dedi­cated to building peace and jus­tice through Christian nonvio­lence, will speak on "The For­mation of Conscience." Small group discussions will follow. 
Professor Todd Whitmore 
will offer a lecture on the Just War Theory, and the seminar will end with the celebration of Mass. 
Fuller said he credits Kim Zych, Marl Okuda, Tom Faller, Trish Stager, and Jude Bena­vides with providing the neces­sary effort and skills required to develop and execute the seminar. "This took since September to plan," said Fuller, "so they were very helpful." 
The Observer 


Freshman Kirsten Edmunson and a friend of Todd McNamee pose for a picture with Lou Holtz, who went to both Kirsten and Todd for$12,500 each. 
Corporation guilty of waste violations 
DENVER (AP) -Rockwell In­ternational Corp. pleaded guilty Thursday to 10 criminal counts of hazardous waste and water violations while it ran the Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant and agreed to pay an $18.5 million fine. 
However, both Rockwell and government officials said the violations had not resulted in "substantial physiological harm" to people livine near the 
u 
plant outside Denver. 
"We believe this is a fair, equitable and just sentence for the people of the United States," 
U.S. Attorney Michael Norton said. 
The 10 counts include five felonies -four violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and one violation of the dean Water Act. The five 

~~------------,~~" 
Oj Heartland Tew Bar·B-Que aiKl OWe Hall 'j?
Q ~b ~ 
7 niE MARSHAlL 1UCKER BAND ? i Live in Concert II Thursday, Aprn 2,1992 1 
(., Tickets are anilable for jmt $10.00, on~ i Heartland {; C~ t.lllJIN'lll!rtStlti•Wmt•W!fi•liill@!t• fi 
~ For what's in store~ awhole lot more...219·234-5200 /0V~' C"tS\). 

misdemeanors were for viola­tions of the Clean Water Act. 
The counts alleged Rockwell illegally stored and disposed of hazardous wastes at the plant at various times between 1987 and 1989. 
FBI agents who took infrared photographs during three night flights over the plant said they found indications that haz­ardous wastes were being 
burned in the incinerator of a plutonium reprocessing plant that Energy Department in­spectors had closed for ·safety reasons, according to a 1989 affidavit. 
The infrared surveillance also found evidence that hazardous wastes had been placed in an evaporation pond that EPA of­ficials said couldn't be used for that purpose, according to the affidavit. 
page3 

Settlements in Palestine add pressure, speaker says 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY News Writer 
The establishment of Israeli settlements in Palestinian terri­tory creates added pressure on Palestinians already under mili­tary rule, said lawyer John Borman yesterday in a lecture entitled, "Jews and Palestini­ans: Bush Policy From a Human Rights Perspective." 
Borman, a St. Paul native, belongs to a group called The Minnesota Lawyers Interna­tional Human Rights Commit­tee, with whom he traveled to Israel. For his latest trip, however, the delegation was broadened to include people other than lawyers to provide a number of perspectives, said Borman. 
He stressed the organization's concentration on human rights, saying it tries to stay away from the political aspects of the issues they address. 
Concentrating on the occu­pied territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Borman first pointed to the fact that the Israelis believe they have the God-given right to the territo­ries they occupy and beyond. 
The biggest obstacle to peace, according to Borman, is what he called the "blatant violation" of the Geneva Convention, which prohibits an occupying power from moving its civilians into the occupied territory. 
Borman used the city of Nazareth as an example of how friction is created because of Israeli settlements. Palestini­ans in the city, as in all the Is­raeli occupied territory, pay taxes, receiving no services in return. The Israelis, however, who live in what is called Upper Nazareth, receive full services, such as sewage and water. 
Borman cited many other in­justices for the Palestinians who are suspected of any kind of rebellion. These include de­portation and coercive interro­gation, as well as collective punishments, such as house demolitions and the closing of universities because of sus­pected students. 
International laws meant to protect human rights have not stopped the problem, because the Israelis have always found some way to justify their ac­tions, said Borman. 
Borman said he believes that the key to resolution of the problem is the United States. Whatever can be done must be done soon, be said, as the sit­uation continues to deteriorate. "If peace doesn't come," said Borman, "the consequences will be very, very severe." 


The Observer is now accepting application for the following position: Accent Copy Editor !Please submit a one-page personal statement to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Friday, March 27. Call Jahnelle Harrigan at 239-5303 for more information.  
The Department of Music prc~cnts In celebration of the ]50th anniven;a."Y of Notre Dame Pomeriunt %usices A Concert ofL[turgical Music %e Sacred Jl Cappe[[a 5'/.rt of tfie £are MicU[e Jlges SATURDAY~, MARCH 28 8:00P.M. Basilica of thE, Sacred Heart The concert is free and open to the public  

Bush gets clean bill of health 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Doctors removed four potentially precancerous skin patches from President Bush's face during his annual checkup Thursday but pronounced him in overall perfect health. 
The president's doctor, Bur­ton Lee, said Bush needs more time off from his stress-filled job. 
Doctors removed four tiny keratoses using liquid nitrogen, Lee said. The White House did not reveal the procedure until after a photographer noticed the dark spots on Bush's face through the camera's lens. 
Overall, Bush got a clean bill of health as he heads into a strenuous re-election cam­paign. He once said that only a health problem would keep him from running. 
Lee, said the keratoses were not noticeable to the naked eye, but because Bush has spent a lot of time in the sun, the der­matologist searched for them with special glasses. 
"Sometimes they go away, sometimes they turn into little basal cells," Lee said, adding that Bush, like many older peo­ple and those who spend time in the sun, has had others re­moved in the past. 

page4 1ne Observer Friday, March 27, 1992 
House votes to add 2 million students to aid program 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House Thursday voted 365-3 to approve a bill that would add more than 2 million poor and middle-income college students to the federal financial aid pro­gram. 
The legislation, which reau­thorizes through fiscal year 1997 programs under the Higher Education Act set to ex­pire on Oct. 1, now goes to con­ference. The Senate passed its version of the bill, covering about $20 billion In programs, in late February. 
"With passage of this bill to­day, we've done our part in lowering the financial barriers to higher education for students from the working and middle­Income families of America," said Rep. William Ford, D-
Housing 
continued from page 1 
concern for quality service In 
other non-profit organizations. 
"Social service groups forget that the reason they exist is for these needy people. We need to have customer satisfaction," he said. So Westminster conducts surveys asking the residents, "How are we doing?" 
"We need to know whether we are making a difference, otherwise our work Is not worthwhile," Thomas said. Since Westminster focuses on long-term goals, Thomas said, he has suggested checking with changes In the owners over the years. 
Westminster's financing policy requires that no one be required to pay more than 30 percent of his Income on a home, continuing over a 20 year period. 
"We will not enter into a project If It won't remain af­fordable," Thomas said. These stringent criteria, he added, "require a lot of creative fi­nancing." 
Westminster earns its money through fundraisers, loans, investment banks and grants, he said. 
Auction 
continued from page 1 
Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill 
earned more than outgoing of­
ficers Joseph Blanco and Dave 
Florenzo. Butrus and O'Neill 
earned $50, while Blanco and 
Florenzo brought In $30. 
Notre Dame freshman Angela 
Fowler won the grand prize in 
the raffie, a pizza party for 36 
people by Papa John's. Saint 
Mary's student Jen Tureon won 
one pizza per week until De­
cember from Domino's. 
The money earned by the 
auction will be divided equally 
between the Beeler and Hipp 
memorial scholarships. 
Beeler's fund already has over 
$25,000, according to Swize. 
There are two funds set up In 
llipp's name, one at Notre 
Dame and another at her high 
school in St. Louis, Mo. 
The money from the People 
Auction will be donated to the 
fund at St. Joseph Academy ac­
cording to the wishes of Hlpp's 
family, Swize said. 
Both familles will decide how the funds will be distributed, she added. 
The auction was sponsored by HPC as a means to bring support for the funds from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community together. A com­mittee of seven hall presidents planned the auction, Swize said. 
Mich. 

But Ford added that "the shackles of the budget agree­ment" prevented the House from making a "stride or a leap forward" in the government's largest grant and loan programs. 
Rep. David Price, D-N.C., said the bill "helps hard-working American families realize the dream of higher education for their children" by opening op­portunities to about 1.1 million more students applying for Pell Grants and another 1.1 million more students seeking a guar­anteed student loan. 
Currently 3.8 million receive Pel! Grants and 4. 7 million guaranteed student loans. Pell Grants, named for Sen. Pell, D­R.I., were created in 1972 to help relieve the loan burden carried by poorer college stu­dents. 
The White House budget of­fice opposes the bill and has threatened to recommend a veto by President Bush. The administration has objected to expansion of the Pell Grant program. 
Key provisions of the bill would: 
•increase Pell Grants from the current maximum of $2,400 to $4,500 for the 1992-93 aca­demic year, and index the maximum award to inflation. If fully funded, students from four-person families with in­comes up to $49,000 could re­ceive a minimum Pell Grant. The limit now Is about $30,000. 
•allow students regardless of family income to borrow up to the maximum Stafford Loan that ranges from $2,625 to $4,000, depending on the year in college. 
•simplify application forms for all federal financial aid and remove home, farm and small business equity from considera­tion in determining eligibility for financial assistance. 
The legislation has nearly 100 provisions to strengthen con­trols on schools and colleges to end waste and abuse and to minimize loan defaults. The provisions include prohibiting the use of commissioned sales­men and recruiters, requiring pro rata tuition refunds and terminating the eligibility of schools that abuse the pro­grams. 
The House eliminated two key proposals wanted by Ford, chairman of the House Educa­tion and Labor Committee. One would have legislated automatic funding each year for the Pell Grant program. The other would have eliminated banks from the guaranteed student loan programs so that students could get money directly from the government. 
"Taxpaying, working and middle-income families are barely scraping by, and they are seeing the dream of a college education for their children slip away," said Ford. "Meanwhile costs at public and private colleges have increased from two to three times faster than the growth in median family in­come." 
Commenting on the effect of 
Congress proposes release of
the upcoming presidential election, Thomas predicted the poor will receive no help at all, 
documents on JFK assassination
saying the government is "too detached from the point of ser­WASHINGTON (AP) -Re­comprehensive government have spent years examining the vice." sponding to a movie and an conspiracy or illegal activity." case are anxious to see certain 
In order to Implement anti-government mood, law­But because the public, items -particularly any gov­
change, "you've got to be 

makers proposed legislation "particularly the young people," ernment records of a trip taken committed to serving," he said. 
Thursday to release secret doc­distrust government con­by Oswald to Mexico CityThomas lectured yesterday on uments into the assassination of clusions that Lee Harvey shortly before the Nov. 22, 1963
"Recovering the Dream: A 
President Kennedy. Oswald acted alone in killing assassination.
Strategy for Providing Afford­

The joint resolution filed in Kennedy, the records must be
able Housing." 

both the House and Senate opened, he said. 
Correction
After graduating from Notre 

would set up a citizen review Boren, chairman of the Sen­
Dame, Thomas worked as a Holy Cross Associate at the board that will decide whether ate Intelligence Committee, said 
A story about Wednesday's DePaul Alcoholism Treatment to declassify mountains of CIA, the proposal coincides with 
Student Senate meeting in Center in Portland, Oregon, and FBI and other government doc­momentum in official Washing­
yesterday's Observer incor­he has a master's degree in uments. The proposal includes ton for the release of all sorts of 
rectly reported allegations public policy from Duke a recommendation that the secret records, particularly 
against Candidate Tyler University. 
Farmer. Farmer supporters He worked in New York City 
successor to the Soviet KGB re­those of the CIA. 
had turned over Farmer

lease what it has. "This Is a resolution designed 
as an Assistant Commissioner posters in Morrissey and

Sen. David Boren, D-Okla., to get as much disclosure as is
of Corrections, and was repon­written "Vote Morrissey"

said at a Capitol Hill news con­absolutely possible," Boren
sible for health and social pol­
on them. The Observer

ference he had no reason to be­said.
icy in nineteen jails. 
regrets the error.

lieve the fLies would reveal "any Researchers and authors who 
"You're so smooth
Move up to 
••MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS.. 
Paul Chisholm," 
she said. Paul
• 2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments 
(4 Apartments per Building) 
thought for

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 


a moment. 

• Pool and Clubhouse facilities 
"Yes, I am, aren't I?"
• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 



Happy 21st, Paul. 
. Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent 
And may you always
For further information call 277-3731 
Located at Cleveland and Bendix 
be smooth... 


Notre Dame's Fighting Irish (2-0) against Chicago's South Side Irish (Men's Club) Sat. March 28th Time: 12:00 A-Side Where: Colonel John Stephen's Pitch (Field Behind Stepan Center) CURE YOUR BUFFIES GIVE FA"" PA"" A ftiY 
\ ·~ 
--~-------­
Friday, March 27, 1992 
Human error blamed for Evansville plane crash 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) -An Air Force report released Thursday into last month's crash of a military airplane into a motel and restaurant is consistent with a secret Air Force report on the accident, a congressman said. 
U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey said his briefing on both the public and confidential investi­gations into the Feb. 6 Ken­tucky Air National Guard C-130 crash indicated that human er­ror was to blame . 
"So any reasonable review would have to impute that the problem was crew error ... and I think it's safe to say there were problems in the cockpit with the plane under the con­trol of the pilot and the copilot," McCloskey said. 
McCloskey, D-Ind., said he found no discrepancies between the Air Force's accident inves­tigation board report, presented to families of victims Thursday, and its classified safety board report. 
But he said he was not satis­fied with a law that classifies the safety board report, con­taining accident details and a cause determination, as a mili­tary secret. The same law, he said, bars himself and Sens. Dan Coats, R-Ind., and Wendell Ford, D-Ky., from disclosing details from the briefing. 
But McCloskey's assessment supported a report Sunday by The Evansville Courier that pi­lot error caused the crash. The Courier, citing unidentified mili­tary sources familiar with the secret report, said the lumber­ing four-engine turboprop lost air speed, stalled and plunged to its left because pilots were swamped with tasks. 
The plane, with a crew of five, was in a simulated engine fail­ure drill, ascending from a low­approach training maneuver at Evansville Regional Airport and trying to head eastward back to Louisville, Ky., when it crashed. 
The accident investigation re­port confrrmed that all the air­craft's systems, controls and engines were working properly and that it was structurally sound. 
The plane's crew, 11 people in a fourth-floor room at the hotel and two restaurant employees died in the crash. 
Attention: Faculty and Professors 

Live in Luxury in the heart of Downtown South Bend 
Ask about our Spring Special!! 2 bedroom apartments starting at $575 ... only a few left ••• 
minutes to
Everywh 
• 
River Views 

• 
Swimming Pool 

• 
Tennis Court 

• 
Washers o.nd Dryers 



+
Showing Models Dally 287-2684 
Mon. through Fri. 9-6 THEPOL\TE 
307 East laSallo Avo. Sot. 10-5 
THE NEW DOWNTOWN Sun. Closed South Bund 
The Point At Saint Joseph­Because ou deserve the best!! 
The Nationally Renowned 


The Observer/E.G. Bailey

Bargain book huntilrlg 
Several people pursue the book selections at the sale held in the Library concourse on Thursday. 
USAir co~-pilot claims he checked for ice on wings 
NEW YORK (AP) -The co-pilot of the USAir jet that crashed in a snowstorm at La Guardia Airport, killing 27 people, told investigators he looked at the wings as many as 10 times shortly before takeoff and saw no ice. 
Thirty-year-old John Rachuba was interviewed at his hospital bedside for more than 3 1/2 hours Wednesday. The pilot, Wallace Majure, was among 
·~"X' J,Hin.:l ;n.tho rr,.<:h Snndav
mgnt. 

JAHARIDANCETROUPE 
from Purdue University will grace the Notre Dame campus with special African dance pertormances DATE: Saturday, March 28, 1992 TIME: 200 p.m. PUCE: The Moncgram Room ofthe Joyce AC.C. 
Everyone is encouraged to attend 
FREE OF CHARGE 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame N.A.AC.P. Chap~ 
"As he taxied out, he looked back at the wings several times -at least three times, he said it could have been as many as 10 -to check for ice," said John Lauber, the National Transportation Safety Board's chief investigator of the crash. 
But New York Newsday today quoted unnamed investigators as saying a passenger who identified himself as a private pilot screamed out in warning before takeoff because he saw 
ice on one of the wings. The 
otT. 
Lauber said that the pilots were able to see the wings from 
the cockpit with the help of special "ice lights" used in bad weather. 
Rachuba also recalled check­ing black stripes that are painted on the wings to let pi­lots see ice more easily, Lauber said. The investigator said the co-pilot recalled saying, "It looks good to me, the black stripe is clear." 
Lauber said Rachuba offered no explanation of what caused the crash. He said the last thing Rachuba recalled saying to the pilot was, "Stay with it, Wally." 

Rachuba, of Charlotte, N.C., was released Wednesday night from Booth Memorial Hospital, spokeswoman Colleen Dowd said today. Eight other people remained hospitalized today. 
Ice on a plane's wings can prevent it from getting the lift needed for takeoff, and ice has been blamed for crashes in the past. The F-28 has been identi­fied as having a wing structure that is particularly vulnerable to icing. 
Newsday quoted investigators as saying that passenger Thomas Merrill told them he noticed ice on one of the wings. When Merrill realized the plane was being readied for takeoff, he yelled, "What is this guy do­ing? He's going to get us all killed," the newspaper said. 
Other survivors told investi­gators that they heard Merrill's warning, said Newsday. Merrill, of Norwalk, Ohio, was released from the hospital Wednesday. Telephone calls this morning to the home of a Thomas Merrill in Norwalk went unanswered. 
Ted Lopatkiewicz, an NTSB spokesman, originally said Merrill hadn't mentioned his warning to investigators and that no other passengers had confirmed it. But he issued a correction at midaftemoon. 

Hcnppy 21st Lily J~ll my love, Mommy Feliz cumpleanos cctn todo caririo tus abuelitos y carmelita 
4ll 

, ~:r=-jl\\\\~~~'\~~'""i......"' ·'!"-­
NTSB confirmed a passenger expressed alarm, but said he didn't scream. 
The plane, a twin-engine Fokker F-28 bound for Cleve­land with 51 people aboard, ca­reened into Flushing Bay on takeoff. 
The jet had been de-iced at 

8:26 p.m. and again at 8:59 p.m., but it had to wait until 
9:30 p.m. to take off, raising questions about whether enough ice and snow had built 
up on the wings to affect take­


j 
,..._.__.,._________________________________ 
The Observer

page 6 
Harkin endorses Clinton, denounces Brown's attacks 
ROCHESTER (AP) -Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin endorsed former rival Bill Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomi­nation Thursday, saying that challenger Jerry Brown's at­tacks on Clinton were hurting the party's chances against President Bush. 
"What I'm afraid now is that we may be entering a destruc­tive phase, things I see happen­ing In the Brown campaign lead me to believe something de­structive Is happening," Harkin said. 
He said he would aggressively lobby his friends in the labor movement to back Clinton ­producing immediate results. 
After Harkin and Clinton made a joint satellite appear­ance before major Democratic 
Disappointed Brown says he plans to continue to seek organized labor vote 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Demo­cratic presidential candidate Jerry Brown said he was disap­pointed by Bill Clinton's new endorsements from Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin and large labor unions, but vowed to press on with grass-roots support. 
"When you run a frontal as­sault on what you call a de­crepit and corrupt status quo ... you can't be surprised when people in that neighborhood band together," Brown said during his second campaign swing through Wisconsin. 
Harkin, who dropped out of the presidential race earlier this month, endorsed Clinton on 
SECURITY BEAT Monday, March 23 
3:03 a.m. A minor two car acci­dent occurred at the intersection of Douglas and Juniper Roads. The driver of one of the vehicles was cited for disregarding a traffic signal. 
10:20 a.m. A Warren, Ohio resident reported the theft or her suitcase from a locked vehicle that was parked in the O'Hara-Grace visitor's lot. 
1:10 p.m. A University employee reported the theft or 12 empty kegs or beer from the Alumni Senior Club. 
1:35 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall res· ident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
5:20 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his leather jacket and various other items which he left outside a racquetball court at the JA.C.C. 
6:23 p.m. Notre Dame security assisted in transport! ng an injured South Bend resident from the Rockne Memorial to Memorial Hospital. 
9:40 p.m. A Granger resident reported the theft of her purse from the 
J.A.C.C. main arena. 
Tuesday, March 24 
12:50 a.m. A Notre Dame Security ollicer cited a South Bend resident tor driving 44 MPH In a 25 mph zone. 
2:25 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of his parking hang tag from his unlocked vehide that was parked In the B·1 lot. 
Wednesday, March 25 
8:21 a.m. A Uniwrsity employee reported miscellaneous offenses occurring at the Admissions office. 
8:25 a.m. A Uniwrsity employee reported the theft of his parking hang tag from a car he had rented. When he returned the cer he neglected to take his decal with him and it was gone when he returned to the rental 
company. 
9:07 a.m. A Uniwrsity employee reported discovering vandalism to her car while she was washing it. 
9:35 a.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire Department treated an injured off campus student who accidenUy fell down the steps of the Administration Building. The victim was later transported to the Student Health center. 
7:59 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of his unattended coat that he left In the men's room at Fitzpatrick Engineering Hall. 
Party supporters gathered in Washington, Morton Bahr, president of the Communication Workers of America, said his union would take Harkin's ad­vice and immediately endorse Clinton. Barr said the former California governor began courting labor support only after Harkin had dropped out of the race. 
Harkin said the issue of a possible vice presidential slot on a Clinton ticket or any other role in a Clinton administration was not part of any pre-en­dorsement discussions with the Arkansas governor. 
Harkin said Brown was hurt­ing the party with his personal attacks and by fanning sugges­tions Brown might make a third-party presidential run if 

Thursday. The Arkansas gov­plant in Green Bay. ernor also won the support of The former California gover­the Communications Workers of nor canceled scheduled appear­America and the International ances Thursday in Vermont be­Ladies' Garment Workers' cause of exhaustion, his state Union. campaign manager said. Ver­
Brown said he would have mont holds caucuses on Tues­like the Iowa senator's support day. but added, "It won't stop me." "He's very, very tired," said 
"The way the old game works Vermont director Ken Dean. is you fight and say whatever "Jerry hasn't been eating. He you want, and when that's over hasn't been sleeping. He's los­with, you pretend you never ing his voice. He has to rest." had a dispute," Brown said of Brown said blue-collar work­the former Democratic rivals. ers support him, even if their 
Brown said he would still leaders back Clinton. court organized labor and "Those who spend a lot of plann_ed 11n appearance Friday time in Washington don't have outside the James River paper the same appreciation," he said. 

Who is the best teacher you•ve had at Notre Dame? 
Which faculty members excel at teaching undergraduate classes? 
Show your appreciation by nominating your top teachers for the first annual 
Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award. 
Nomination forms are available in the Student Government Office. Call 239·7668 for more information. 
~Tl'DE~T
~TlDE\T

• Deadline: ,.uesday, March 31 • 
11111111111111111111 
he lost the nomination battle to Clinton. 
"I believe he (Clinton) will make the best candidate for us to go up against George Bush," Harkin said. "I am fearful that the debate may now turn de­structive and I don't want to see that. ... I sense something happening that I don't like to see happening." 
In another sign of an effort to rally the party around Clinton, New York Sen. Danfel Patrick Moynihan gave a Senate speech denouncing Brown's proposal for a 13 percent flat income tax as disastrous to New Yorkers and a threat to the Social Security system. 
Clinton said he believed Harkin's endorsement would give him a major boost. 
Friday, March 27, 1992 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

Going..going..gone 
NO football players Jeff Burris and Tom Carter participate in the People Auction held in Theodore's Thursday night. 
LOOKING FOR SOMETIIING DIFFERENT 
NEXT SEMESTER? 
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY 
AND VALUES CHECK IT OUT!  
[iHj  ELECTIVE COURSES  
1~1  CONCENTRATIONPROG~  
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS & PROGRAM INFORMATION AVAILABLE IN  



Friday, March 27, 1992 The Observer 
page 7 

SMC to host auction 
International festival
for retired religious 
By AMY BENNETT hard to target a specific goal for plannedNews Writer the project, said Veihmeyer. "All I know is that whatever we 
Special to the Observer
raise will be more than the sis­Songs, dances and other per­The Saint Mary's College ters had the day before," she 

formances representing nu­
Alumnae Club of Washington, said. 
merous cultures will be fea­D.C. will host a live and silent The auction will offer 263 tured at a two-hour Interna­
auction on Saturday at Holy donated items. These dona­tional Festival beginning at
Cross Academy in Maryland to tions include the following: a 7:30 p.m. on March 28, in theraise money for the retired free trip to Ireland; a beveled Century Center's Bendix The­Saint Mary's religious. crystal tabernacle; a week-long ater.
According to Co-chair Beth stay at John Wayne's home in 
Veihmeyer, a 1977 graduate Acapulco; a football auto­The annual festival, spon­sored by the University of Notre
and a member of the Saint graphed by Lou Holtz; a book Dame's International Student
Mary's Alumnae Board of Di­signed by Barbara Bush; and an rectors, Regis Philbin will host antique desk from the Saint Organization, will include more than 170 Notre Dame and Saint
the event. Philbin is a 1953 Mary's president's office in Le­
Mary's students representing
Notre Dame graduate and a Mans Hall. nationally syndicated talk show In addition to the money the some 30 countries. This year's festival will feature acts from
host. sisters will receive, Veihmeyer Mexico, the Philippines, India,The money raised at the auc­also noted that Pope John Paul Puerto Rico, Korea, Hungary,tion will be divided between the II will directly present a bless­China, Spain, Benin, Lebanon,Holy Cross order and Support ing to the order. 
Ireland and Chile.
Our Aging Religious (SOAR), "We want to emphasize thatInc., a national organization Veihmeyer said that although our show is not simply for stu­dedicated to helping the retired organizing the auction has keptreligious with emergency assis­her extremely busy in the past dents, but for the entire Michi­ana community," said Ramzi
tance. seven months, it has been "well Bualuan, visiting instructor in
worth the trouble." The money for the Holy Cross "The whole effort itself has 
management at Notre Dame sisters will be given in the form been a mini-marketing pro­
and the festival's organizer. He added that this will be the third
of a cash gift, Veihmeyer said. ject," she said. "One thing that The sisters can then use the continues to amaze me is the 
time in the event's nine-year history that it will take placemoney to improve living condi­inc·redible name recognition off-campus at the Century Cen­tions with an item such as a that Saint Mary's commands all ter.
new air conditioner or a van. over the world. I've called ev­
Admission to the Interna­
The Observer/E.G. Bailey Holy Cross order nor the dona­Rome, and all I need to do is Neither the money given to the erywhere from Montana to tional Festival is $3 for stu­
Speaking about human rights 
dents and $5 for all others.
tion to SOAR will fund Social say 'Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, Security or bank accounts. Indiana,' and people just go John Borman of the Minnesota Lawyers International on Human 
Tickets may be purchased at This is the first year the auc­crazy." 
Rights Committee speaks at his lecture entitled "Jews and the Century Center box office tion has been held because it is 
Palestinians: Bush policy from a Human Rights Perspective." or at the International Student 
. Affairs Office. 
Students and faculty discuss aspects of interracial relationships 
By KERRY COLLIGAN discussion, only nine were men. News Writer Some qualities for interracial Charismatic layman Verge relationships suggested by 
Gillam led a group of several participants included open­students and faculty in a mindedness, strength, self­discussion on interracial dating esteem, equality and respect. Thursday. Gillam said that when he 
Among the approximately hears the word race, "the first thirty-five participants in the thing I think of is runners to 
The Department Of Music Presents 
Craig Cramer 
in a FACULTY ORGAN RECITAL 
Sunday, March 29,1992,8:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
The concert is free and open to the public 
Oeliuery D' Carryout 

1b 
adjustment, there is peace, 
or

Call tranquility, and happiness." Roseland 
232-2499 
277-2121 
.. 

I EXCELLE\T \JLLI~ I I CHOICE DEAL I I
I I I 
I
I

I Buy A I Two Medium I
I I Large I 1-Thpping I I I
I For I Pizzas II Medium I I I
I Charge I 
$}099 
I

I Single P1ua Orden 0o1y I I Carryout/Delluery I Carryout/Delluery I
I I
I ~May 31, 1992 1 .f:!1!!!! May 31, 1992 I
JfytheHotTaste · 
I 
I 

I II I 91
I G9 I I
I ofPizzallufThnight.
I :-:~~"'::.-~..":::"r.. 1
I I ""' •..oiHJlliJliOfftJI...-....._ I --=---·-~r~·..::=-~-=:~-..;;;....... I
LGII'...,.........,...._o_l'llllllo<.IK 
I c"m-...._r...,la-....,.-,.._-... 1 
..------------·· 
---------------• I 
your mark, get set, go." Race "Society should not dictate the the perception was "elevated". denotes competition, not coop­actions of others," she said. "People think we are on cloud eration, he said. Many of the participants thirteen. Clearly, this percep­
According to Professor James expressed a similar desire to tion is wrong," she said. Cushing of the Physics further humanitarianism within Gillam asked the audience to Department, "The primary our society. Fed up with its so do some soul searching. He concern in an interracial norms and its oppression, they asked them to consider allowing relationship, and probably all noted that members of their friends to complete the four relationships, is the happiness own respective ethnic groups cycles of life before becoming of the individuals taking part. often are sources of the sexually intimate. He compared The morals and values which problem. these cycles of life with each of society deems important should Nimbi Cushing, wife of the seasons. not matter to the success of the Professor Cushing, said faith is "Knowledge of self is the most relationship." an important factor in the important virtue," he said. 
One woman identified our couple's relationship. "Religion "Before entering a relationship, present culture as a "Brady is a wonderful thing to share, one must be comfortable with Bunch society," stating that and marriage provides an insti­their perception of self." African American women and tution for both parties to do so," "There's no such thing as other minority women are she said. right or wrong (type of "expected to do certain things. An employee of Notre Dame relationship). There's We're expected to talk a certain asked the others to consider the understanding, flexibility, and way, to dress a certain way and perception held by society of adjustment," Gillam said. 
t.n hP a r.Prt.ain wav" Not.rP Dam<> <\h<> ~t.at.P.rl that Gillam concluded the forum by saying, "I sincerely hope that 
Dlne-1 n at those in interracial relationships...can follow this
Downtown 

sound advice. For in understanding, flexibility, and
282-2543 



~------­

~--------------.-----~--------.------------------------~------­
page 8 1 he Ubserver Friday, March 27, 1992 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER ISAT 
House members wrote bad checks at embassies 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House members wrote bad checks for cash at U.S. embassies overseas, and State Department employees had to go after them to recover the money, the department's Inspector general said Thursday. 
"It's been known to happen. ... I only know the few that came to my attention," Inspector General Sherman Funk said In a telephone in­terview. "There were a few congressmen who caused a problem. We went back to the congressmen and they paid." 
He said there had been no such problems for "a couple of years," but declined to say when the bad checks had been written. He would not name the lawmakers in­volved. 
The lawmakers wrote the checks on their private bank accounts while they were traveling overseas on fact­finding missions and other official trips. 
There was no connection with the much-publicized 
Foreign sub chased from Soviet water 
MOSCOW (AP) -The former Soviet navy said Thursday a foreign submarine had been chased out of Russia's northern waters a dav earlier, and 
Russian media reported officers believe It was a U.S. ship on a spy mission. 
The incident, coming just six weeks after a collision between commonwealth and American subs In the same area of the Barents Sea, was a sobering reminder that military rivalry continues despite the end of the Cold War. 
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said he did not have enough information to respond to the Soviet allegations or to say whether a U.S. vessel was involved. 
However, he added in Washington, "We're careful to operate in a way not to cause any problem." 
The unidentified submarine was detected Wednesday six miles west of Kildin Island in narrow Kolski Bay, northeast of the strategic port of Murmansk, commonwealth navy spokesman Valery Novikov told The Associated Press. 
1\vo former Soviet destroyers and a plane tracked the submarine, which remained submerged and ignored repeated requests to come to the surface, Novikov said. 
After the submarine realized It had been detected, it quickly headed for international waters using the shortest possible route, Novikov said. 
"That means the submarine hadn't lost Its way," he said. 
He added that the vessel attempted to throw the trackers off its trail by firing decoy noisemakers into the water. 
House bank, where members wrote thousands of overdrafts that didn't bounce because they were covered by money from other lawmakers' accounts. 
Funk said the problem had affected embassies in Europe, Africa and other areas. 
At least one of the bad checks was cashed at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, India, and it took State Department employees around six months to collect from the lawmaker involved, a government source said Thursday. The source spoke on condition of anonymity. 
In the House bank investi­gation, the ethics committee is hearing appeals from lawmakers whose names are on a preliminary list of the 24 most flagrant abusers of the system -and one repre­sentative said Thursday he had won his case. 
Rep. James Scheuer, D-N.Y., said Thursday his name will be removed from the list, which "I never should have been on." 
.. :\. 
:·.-~ 
.-~~· 
-~·· 

Prosecutors finish rebuttal case against Manuel Noriega 
MIAMI (AP) -Prosecutors completed their rebuttal case against Manuel Noriega on Thursday after a former Panamanian attorney general testified he was forced to resign at gunpoint as he investigated military corruption. 
But in an unusual move, U.S. District Judge William Hoeveler said he will allow the defense to put two alibi witnesses on the stand to testify Noriega could not have met with a Medellin cocaine cartel drug dealers on the first weekend of May 1984, as a last-minute prosecution witness had testified. 
That testimony, said the judge, would probably begin Monday and he said closing ar­guments could begin Tuesday. The government rested its re­buttal case after calling 14 wit­nesses. 
In a broken voice and wiping tears from his eyes, former at­torney general Rafael Ro­driguez said he was called to military headquarters in July 1983. There, he said, he was confronted by Noriega and the nation's military ruler at the time, Gen. Ruben Paredes. 

He said they told him his high-profile corruption prob'e was threatening the military's commitment to democratize Panama. 
He said Noriega demanded he resign or "become a friend of the defense forces and cover up everything that smelled." 
When he stalled, he said, he was brought a second time to headquarters and confined to a room, where an officer told him he was going to die. 
"He approached me with a gun and put it to my head," said Rodriguez. "I told him, 'Go ahead and do it -you don't have the courage.­
He said he ultimately signed a resignation letter and was re­leased, but his home was raided, his dogs killed, and he fled to the United States. 
He returned in mid-1984 after negotiations with Hogelio Cruz, Panama's current attorney general, whom he called a "servile servant" for Noriega. 
Hodriguez's testimony did not bear directly on the 10 drug and racketeering counts against Noriega, but was intended by 
prosecutors to show the military ran Panama's legal system. 
On cross-examination, de­fense counsel Frank Rubino had Rodriguez acknowledge that his firing occurred when Paredes -not Noriega -ran the country, and that it was Noriega who allowed him to return to Panama and resume a normal life. 
Following Hodriguez, a cur­rent Panamanian prosecutor, Guillermina McDonald, testified that Noriega's attorney general in 1987 and 1988, Carlos Vil­lalaz, had quietly unfrozen the accounts of suspected drug dealers. 
Of 53 accounts in Panama holding $14 million, Villalaz re­leased 45, about $8 million of the total, he said. The accounts had been frozen in "Operation Pisces," a U.S. money-launder­ing probe in which Panama helped. 
Noriega, who surrendered to 
U.S. troops after the December 1989 invasion of Panama, faces a maximum 160 years in prison if convicted on all counts. 

This example of personalized attent10n IS JUSt one 
of the reasons our classes are filling up fast Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 40 Hours Of Live Instruction 
·ota.
• Live ThtoriaJ'AvailableAt No Extra Charge 
E D U C A T I 0 U l U 0IP ( VISA)
• National 800 Telephone Helpline 
%73-1866
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice-Exams 
U.7 US31 NORTH 
• Constantly Updated Materials 
Acro.u &om Knights Inn 
Suite Z10
The ITAR-Tass news agency quoted an unidentified senior 
officer as saying the WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. commonwealth navy was "99 percent certain" it was an American spy vessel. 
The Observer 

Friday, March 27, 1992 page9 
Britain: Libya dodging blame fOr Pan Am bombing 
Libya seeks emergency protection from British attack, sanctions 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands (AP) -Britain accused Libya on Thursday of dodging responsibility for the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 by going to the World Court rather than surrender its suspects. 
Libya is seeking emergency protection from attack or international sanctions promoted by the United States and Britain to gain custody of the two Libyans sought in the 1988 bombing. 
Leading off the proceedings at the Peace Palace, seat of the World Court, Libyan representative Mohamed AI Faitouri, dressed in a white Arab robe, denied Libyan responsibility for the bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland that killed 270 people. 
Speaking before a panel of 16 judges in black robes and white lace cravats, he accused the U.S. and British governments of using threats to try to blackmail his nation into releasing the suspects.. He warned that a victory for the Western powers would jeopardize the rights of all weaker nations. 
Britain, in turn, accused Libya of involvement in 
Senate kills Democratic effort to cut military spending, aid social programs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate on Thursday killed a Democratic effort to shift bil­lions of dollars from military to social programs, rebuffing party leaders who want to use the issue to score points with recession-battered voters. 
The measure died when sena­tors voted 50-48 to end Repub­lican procedural delays aimed at killing the bill -10 votes short of the 60 votes that were needed. Forty-seven Democrats and three Republicans voted to keep the bill alive, but eight Democrats deserted their lead­ers and joined 40 Republicans in voting to kill the legislation. 
The election-year Democratic initiative to shift defense dollars to programs in education, health and road-building had virtually no chance of becoming law because it faced a likely veto by President Bush. 
But polls show that Ameri­cans want the government to do something about the recession. Citing the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the anemic 

U.S. economy, Democratic leaders say it is time to carve a multi-billion dollar peace dividend out of the Pentagon's $290 billion budget. 
"We are the only remaining military superpower in the world," said Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn. "The other military superpower bankrupted itself buying weapons and maintaining an overly large military establish­ment. Are we not to learn from that?" 
Senate debate came a day after the House laid to rest an­other top Democratic initiative -a middle-class tax-cut that would have been paid for by boosting levies on the rich. The House voted 215-211 Wednes­day against overriding Bush's veto of the tax measure, 73 votes short of the two-thirds majority required. 

Republicans said that by try­ing to transfer Pentagon funds to social programs, Democrats were simply trying to satisfy labor and other groups that support Democratic candidates. 
"It's not about investment in America, it's about investment in re-election," said Deputy Mi­nority Leader Alan Simpson, R­Wyo. 
Republicans also argued that shifting the money from mili­tary to domestic programs could leave American defenses at dangerously low levels. And they said that any Pentagon savings should be used to re­duce record-high budget deficits, as is required under current law. 
terrorism and said its application to the court was merely a stalling tactic. 
"Libya will say anything ... which may help postpone the day when it will have to accept responsibility for its actions," said Alan Rodger, Scotland's solicitor general. 
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi told Arab League 

envoys on Wednesday that he won't give up the suspects unless ordered to by the World Court, according to Arab diplomats. 
The court is the judicial arm of the United Nations, but it has no enforcement powers. 
Britain opened its presentation before a panel of 16 judges with a detailed account of its investigation. 
The Observer/E.G. Bailey 

People have the power 
Steve Thomas, acting senior vice president and corporate operating manager of Westminister Corporation, spoke Thursday of his company's work with low-income individuals to find affordable housing. 
Soldiers angered at threat of National guard, reserve cuts 
WASHINGTON (AP)-T h e basically stayed at home and Pentagon's proposals for cuts in watched the war on CNN National Guard and reserve weren't," said Lt. James units Thursday brought Parrish, commander of the resentment from soldiers who 1033rd Medium Truck served in the Persian Gulf War Company of Gate City, Va. and anger from state and "At least we'll have the community leaders, who said satisfaction that we did our they'd fight. wartime job," Parrish said. "It's 
''I've got a company of frustrating, though. Maybe veterans that won nine Bronze Congress can stop this." Stars and they can't understand The Pentagon's proposed cuts why we were cut and units that target National Guard and 
Attention Sophomore Business Majors: 
•
Interested Ill 
Help Account For sales! 

getting involved? 
•

$150,000 Ill annual 
Applications are now being accepted for; 
§lrTUIIDIENlr A§§II§lrANT 


Pick up your application in the Student Government office on the 2nd floor in I aFortune. They will be due Tuesday, March 31st 
reserve units in all 50 states and total more than 140,000 jobs. 
North Dakota State Adjutant General Alexander Macdonald said that while the proposal was aimed at saving money, Guard units can be maintained for a quarter of what it costs for regular Army troops. 
"It appears not well thought out by the people in the building in Washington," he said. 
Elimination of the National Guard's 214th Field Artillery Battalion in Statesboro, Ga., with 469 members "would certainly have an economic impact on our county and city," said Statesboro Mayor Hal Averitt. 
He and other local officials said they would contact their congressmen in an effort to keep their units alive. 
"Closing armories is the wrong thing to do at a time when we are trying to come out of a recession," said U.S. Rep. 
G.V. "Sonny" Montgomery of Mississippi. "National Guard units have a big economic impact on local communities in Mississippi and across the country." 
"They don't mind spending a billion dollars at the Pentagon, but something that can help families here, in a depressed area, they can't do that," said Samuel Box, mayor of Quitman, Miss. 
Ohio Adjutant General Richard C. Alexander said the cutbacks could really hurt. 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, March 27, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor .••................... David Kinney Advertising Manager .......... Mike Hobbs VIewpoint Editor .......•.........• Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ..••••.....•Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor .....•..•.• Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by·the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Coach Macleod thanks students for support 
Dear Editor: During these last three games, 
On behalf of all of us involved our students have been ani­with the Notre Dame basketball mated, humorous and loud. program, I want to thank all the Make no mistake about it: You students that supported us helped us win each of those throughout the year and, par­games. ticularly, during our three NIT victories. The energy and ex­Again, thank you to all the citement created by the stu­students that have supported us dents during these last three throughout the season. We will games was fantastic and, more do our best in New York to importantly, contagious. The make you proud. Enjoy your JACC truly became a spring and summer. But don't Thunderdome during the NIT. forget-next season is just a 
To me, one of the most exhila­few months away! rating aspects of college bas­ketball is the impact that a John Macleod frenzied group of students can Head Basketball Coach have on the outcome of a game. March 26, 1992 
SMC President-Elect says 'Get involved!' 
Dear Editor: 
One of the duties of a leader is to keep the past in mind, but primarily direct the course of the future. The position that I have been elected to has been defined a "leadership" position. However, after a couple of weeks of becoming familiar with this position I am about to engage, a leader cannot direct the course of the future without the assistance of significant others, the women of Saint Mary's College. 

Saint Mary's students often feel uninformed about the new policies or activities imple­mented by Student Government. More importantly, they do not understand why decisions are made; change is more accept­able when it is understood. 
Thus. we proposed the follow­ing during our campaign: to further educate students about the structure and functions of our Student Government and to heighten student influence on campus. 
We hope by increasing the awareness of Student Government and its function on campus, the women of Saint Mary's College will want to take advantage of the opportunities that a position on Student Government could provide. 
To become a part of the dy­namic opportunities of Saint Mary's College, it takes three basic steps (easier than learn­ing the two-step!). First, go to Haggar College Center and pick up an application at the front desk. Next. grab your favorite pen, take a step forward and turn, then complete the applica­tion. Finally, stroll back to Haggar and drop off your mas­terpiece (don't forget to sign up for an interview). It's that sim­ple! 
We cannot accomplish our mission without your involve­ment. Working in Student Government is beneficial not only to the SMC community, but it benefits you as well; expands your circle of friends, provides rare opportunities for leader­ship development, teaches you about communicating and working with people. 
Don't hesitate-get involved now! 
Tina Carrara Student Body President Elect March 25, 1992 


Concert planners should use economics 
Dear Editor: creasing attendance. The tick­performance they had $8000 in 
The problem with the two re­ets for Howie Mandel cost $10, receipts from 800 people sus­cent concerts was not that they only 800 sold. I know many taining a loss of $12,000 or a supposedly did not follow rules people who would have gone to loss of $15 per p!!rson. in bidding for the contracts. it see the performance except that Someone in student government was that they lost money and the tickets cost too much. even claimed that SUB is sup­had low attendance. Matthew Since the cost of having Howie posed to provide quality enter­Bomberger claims that John Mandel come to NO was fixed, tainment to students at a loss. Coffey is undermining the repu­the object is to get as much tation of SUB by spreading money for the performance as Due to severe mismanagement inaccurate information. possible regardless of ticket a lot of money was lost with 
The fact is they lost more price. If the performance had very little to show for it. This money than they had to while been held in the JACC there same argument holds for The only providing entertainment to would have been an effectively Cult concert. However, in this a few while using money that unlimited supply of seating case lowering the price would everyone paid through activity available. 4,000 people might probably not have decreased fees. This could have been have attended if ticket prices the total loss, signifying that avoided if someone in govern­had only been $5 each. bringing The Cult to NO might ment had any understanding of This would have earned not have been as good an idea supply, demand and the effect $20,000 while providing enter­as originally thought by the price has on them. tainment for 4,000 people and bidders. 
Selling more tickets at a lower SUB would have broken even Daniel Hoffman 
price would most likely have given that the concert cost Dillon Hall 
decreased the loss while in-$20,000. As SUB handled the March 23, 1992 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"WHYNOT? 7He GOV!3RNOR.'5 


FDUTICAL-5K/tl/3 AR8 NON­PA!<Eit.-, HIS M8%46!3/S POTeNT AN{) m41tU5 We.t.L.t 
ANOH/5 P8RSONAl APPEAL­BY l7"5tiF /(/()()UJ ~ 70 GU/IRANTEfl3 V!CllX'Y 
IN!HeFAU... ..." 

"STIU.., CJ7ARACTCR. 
QU/35T/QVS PeRSf.iT,.." 
0 

'And the all night girls they whisper of escapades out on the 0-Train. We can hear the night watchman click his flashlight, asks himself is it them or me that's insane.' 
Robert Zimmerman 

Look up quites all night and submit: 
.. 


Viewpoint

Friday, March 27, 1992 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Inconsistencies abound in Irishman's extradition 

Dear Editor: dition was not subject to review. With the onset of St. Patrick's Notwithstanding, the Reagan Day, it seems only appropriate administration appealed Judge to comment on the recent Haight's decision and deportation of Irishman Joseph responded in a highly critical 
P. Doherty by the U.S. Depart­manner. ment of Justice. Inconsistencies The critical nature of the ex­abound with regard to this case. ecutive branch regarding 
And although it is not intended proper judicial proceedings in to either support or denounce turn prompted The National United Kingdom, two months Doherty to reassert his claim House of Representatives call­the activities practiced by the Law Journal to editorialize in later. for political asylum and ing for Doherty to be given bail IRA, the fact that the British support of the judicial process Unable to prevail in any fo­withholding of deportation. and political asylum. government maintains a and against the executive. In rum, the Reagan administration The basis for the motion was A resolution was passed dur­military state in northern Ire­March 1986 the U.S. Court of referred the BIA decision to that the Attorney General and ing the Eighteenth Constitu­land speaks for itself. What is Appeals termed the executive Attorney General Edwin Meese the INS delayed the immigra­tional Convention of the AFL­intended is to provide a sce­branch position regarding the for his personal "review." In so tion proceedings so as to insure CIO in November 1989 in sup­nario of the events affecting and Doherty case "startling" and doing, the executive empowered that if the order directing Mr. port of Joseph Doherty and a leading up to Doherty's eventual affirmed Judge Haight's deci­the losing party throughout the Doherty's deportation to Ireland letter of endorsement was sent deportation. sion in favor of Mr. Doherty in final say on whether the courts was executed at all, it would not to Attorney General Richard 
Briefly, Joe Doherty was im­all respects. had acted correctly! be until after December 1, Thornburgh. The Bush admin­prisoned for having been in­Immigration then entered the From May to November 1987 1987, the effective date of the istration ignored these en­volved in an IRA confrontation case in September 1986 when no action was taken by the At­Extradition Act of 1987 dorsements. with a British commando unit, the Hon. Howard Cohen, immi­torney General regarding these (European Convention on the ·The political nature or this which resulted in the death of a gration judge, entered an order proceedings. Not until which Suppression of Terrorism). case also prompted U.S. Sena­British officer. (Data regarding rejecting the claim of the execu­time were Mr. Doherty's counsel Under this act, Mr. Doherty's tor Christoper Dodd, Arch­British Special Service Units tive branch that Mr. Doherty even advised that the Attorney deportation to Ireland would be bishop John Cardinal O'Connor, "shoot to kill" policy in North­should be deported to the General had agreed to review the functional equivalent of ex­and the Rev. Jesse Jackson to ern Ireland is highly docu­United Kingdom (only). Judge the case. tradition to the United King­personally visit Doherty in mented and provides a back­Cohen in turn ordered Mr. Do­Finally, in June 1988 Edwin dom. Thus, through their delay, prison. A letter expressing a ground for this incident.) Do­herty to be returned to Ireland, Meese ordered Joseph Doherty the Attorney General and the "dangerous precedent" was herty later escaped and made the country of which he is a cit­deported to the United INS subverted both the letter sent to Attorney General his way to the United States. izen. Correspondingly, Mr. Do­Kingdom, after having sat on and the spirit of the order Richard Thornburgh in April 
In June 1983 U.S. Immigration herty agreed with this decision. the case for more than a year. directing Mr. Doherty's return 1991 by the London-based issued a warrant on Mr. However, the Immigration and His decision came just days to Ireland, as well as of the Amnesty International regard­Doherty. He was subsequently Naturalization Service (INS) prior to Mr. Doherty's sixth year 1984 order barring his extradi­ing the Doherty case. It con­imprisoned in New York City appealed the Cohen decision on in confinement and without tion to the United Kingdom. cluded: and held without bail. The Bri­the ground that Mr. Doherty's regard to previous judicial The BIA, in a split decision, "Amnesty International is tish government followed with a deportation to Ireland would be review. granted Doherty motion to re­concerned to make known to request for extradition to the "prejudicial to the interests of This decision prompted a open the deportation proceed­the U.S. Government its belief United Kingdom. To Mr. Do­the United States." It remains backlash from U.S. Senators ings, November 1988, based on that asylum-seekers are entitled herty's defense came Irish curious that no such argument and representatives, who ob­the above arguments. Yet to a hearing on the merits of American organizations na­had ever before been raised by served a violation of due pro­again, the Justice Department, their claim and its objections to tionwide, and attorneys Stephen the INS, and it presented no ev­cess of law. The American Civil through the INS, appealed to considerations in denying an Somerstein and Mary Pike of idence to support its claim, de­Liberties Union issued a letter the Attorney General to reverse asylum hearing. New York City were retained as spite numerous adjournments to Edwin Meese condemning his the BIA decision. It is our view that to allow for legal counsel. given for that purpose. decision in July 1988. By March 1989 the Attorney such a practice would be con­
Request for the deportation In a counter measure a peti­General had made no decision trary to international standards was denied in December 1984 In a unanimous decision, the tion for review was filed by Do­regarding the Doherty case ex­and would put in danger many by the Hon. John Sprizzo, U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals herty's counsel with the U.S. cept to request briefs to aid in asylum-seekers who are at risk District Court, based on the {BIA), March 1987, ruled in fa­Court of Appeals for the Second his review. It should be noted of being imprisoned as political character of the case. vor of Mr. Doherty and against Circuit. This petition effectively that by March 1989 Edwin prisoners of conscience, or Subsequently, in an unprece­the INS. Correspondingly the barred execution of the depor­Meese had been replaced by subjected to torture, dented lawsuit, the Reagan INS moved to reopen the BIA tation order. Richard Thornburgh as Attor­"disappearance," or execution if administration asserted that decision on the ground that it Regardless of the decision of ney General and, at the time of returned to the country from Judge Sprizzo decided the case wished to submit evidence in the Attorney General, the year the recent Supreme Court deci­which they fled." wrongly. support of its claim of preju­delay by the Justice Department sion regarding the Doherty 
In June 1985 the Hon. Charles dice! The BIA again reaffirmed is a significant factor regarding case, Richard Thornburgh had Haight, Jr., U.S. District Court, the correctness of the order re­this case. It necessitated the been replaced by William Barr Most recently, Amnesty Inter­ruled that Judge Sprizzo had jecting the executive branch's filing of a motion, December as acting Attorney General. national has editorialized its not acted wrongly and that the assertion that Mr. Doherty 1987, to reopen the deportation Interestingly, not until the criticism of the Bush adminis­
should be returned the oceedin ermit Mr. basic structure of the tration regarding its use of 
U.S. Supreme Court had Amnesty material supporting changed did the Justice the executive's stand on civil Department lean in that and human rights, which direction. The rest is history. clearly has been used for politi­
Continually pressured by the cal motives. If the world is ex­British government, the Bush pected to judge democracy from administration has in turn our standards then it will have prejudiced itself against our learned, if nothing more, that it own judicial system. In Febru­possesses a double edge. ary 1989 U.S. Rep. Thomas Ned A. Delaney, PEC Manton introduced Concurrent Indiana State Director Resolution #63 before the U.S. Mar. 7,1992 
etter made false assumptions about African-Americans 
Dear Editor: women" want an all female think (Now notice that I said "I everything from ministerial ac­don't ·do these things how can I am writing in response to Fr. church. think" and not all African­cess to the altar in Catholic we consider ourselves one in 
C. F. Weiher's letter (The None of the generalizations Americans think) that most parishes to parish councils as union with Christ? In order to Observer, March 17, 1992). Fr. are accurate, and I don't think African-Americans within the well as their traditional place in get to that point we must be Weiher makes a lot of Fr. Weiher should bash anyone, church agree with Rev. Stallings catholic schools. At least that's united with each other as well. assumptions about the views of because he is guilty of the same that racism does indeed exist in always been my impression This means respecting each African-American Catholics and crime. the Roman Catholic church. from having talked with the sis­other despite disagreements. African-Americans in general I suggest talking to various The difference is, people have ters at my own parish as well as with his statement that "He individuals before deciding varying ideas as to how to others. In sum, the message that I [George Stallings] is a disgrace what is disgraceful for an entire resolve the issue. have is that no one can simply to his race and especially to race of people. Perhaps if he Finally, Fr. Weiher feels that it assume things about people, loyal African-American had he would know that there is Now about these "beautiful is not the purpose of religion to generalize it to others and then Catholics." no single opinion among women" in the church? (And I "right all wrongs, insure social talk about it as if it is fact. 
African-Americans. A good do think they are beautiful by justice, promote racial cultures When speaking on a given topic 
He accuses Fr. McDermott of number of people applaud what the way) I think if he talked and reclaim paradise" and that it is always best that you speak generalizing the ills of the George Stallings is doing, while with the women he accuses of this is all ultimately up to God for yourself and let others "church" to all white catholic some disagree with it and wanting an all-female church, only. Well... I have to disagree speak for themselves! males. Then, he does the same others simply aren't interested. he might find that this is simply and say that it is the purpose of thing. Not only in regard to Furthermore, African-not the case. religion. Lena Jefferson African-Americans but he also Americans within the church I think what they want is an God gave it to us and we Campus Ministry generalizes that all "beautiful have varying opinions about it. I equal sharing of the church in should use it properly. If we March 20,1992 

, 

MARCH 27-29 
weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 
Tony Graffel, Grace Coffee House, 9:30 p.m. DlssFunktlon and Jasmine Groove, Bridget's, 10 p.m. Third Eye Production, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
The Mere Mortals, Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend, Twist & Shout, 9:30. Judy Hutchlnsons, Grace Coffee House, 10:30 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Folk Dancing, Club House, Saint Mary's College, 7:30 p.m Dance Party, Asian American Association, Theodore's, LaFortune, 9:30 p.m. to 1 :30 a.m. "Nunsense," Musical, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. 
saturday 
MUSIC DlssFunktlon and Jasmine Groove, Bridgets, 10 p.m Metha-tones, Club 23, 10 p.m. The Mere Mortals, Shenanigan's, 10 p.m. 
P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend, Twist and Shout, 9:30p.m. 
EVENTS 
Jaharl Dancers, JACC Monogram Room, 2 p.m. 
Spring Concert, Chambers Singers, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College, 8 p.m. Pomerlum Muslces Concert, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8 p.m. International Festival '92, Bendix Theater, Century Center, 7:30p.m. 
sunday 
EVENTS 
Spring Concert, Chambers Singers, C.T.S. Presbyterian Church of LaPorte, 7:30 p.m. Faculty Organ Recital, Basilica of the Sacred Heart, 8p.m. 
films 
FRIDAY 
"Cape Fear,"Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 &9:45 p.m. "Jungle Fever,"Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 
"Cape Fear," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Jungle Fever," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 

WVFI crosses new frontiers in alternative music industry 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Accent Writer 
C 
ollege radio is at a crossroads. 
Once the breeding ground for new music, college stations played 

songs which would not be aired on typical commercial radio. But with the immense monetary success of bands like R.E.M. and the Red Hot Chili Peppers, who were once successful only on college campuses, corporate America has shoved its greedy hands fully into the college radio pie, grasping for moneymaking plums. 
So campus radio stations across the country are faced with a question. As major labels bombard their mailboxes with promos for band after band, do the stations play the music? Or do they seek out new life and new musical experiences by working with independent labels, whose promotional machines would be crushed by those of the major labels? 
WVFI (640 am), Notre Dame's student-run !!tation, is a player in this dilemma. 
"I think our goal is to provide an alternative to top-40 or AOR," said new WVFI station manager Dan Langrill. "I'd like to keep the same plan we had last year." 
That plan struck a balance between major-label acts and the more obscure music found on independent labels from around the country. 
"WVFI is not your run-of-the­mill college station that plays whatever 120 Minutes (MTV's weekly alternative-music video program) is playing," said former station manager and music director Jeff Jotz. "I've tried to search out new labels and new bands so that WVFI isn't 120 Minutes on the radio or an echo of Lollapalooza." 
Lollapalooza, last year's summer concert extravaganza, showcased several of the biggest names in college radio. But with the exception of the Rollins Band, each of the show's acts had major-label backing. 
Like many young performers put in the same situation, groups like Jane's Addiction and Nirvana jumped at the money when it was offered. But while Nirvana's Nevermind is lodged firmly in the top ten of 
· the album chart, the second single from the album is simi­larly lodged in WVFI rotation. 
"I've always liked Nirvana," said Jotz. "But we have been put between a rock and a hard place. DGC (Nfrvana's label, a subsidiary of Warner Commu­nications, Inc.) has marketed Nirvana by saying 'It's number one on the charts, so play it.' Is that the purpose of alternative radio?" 
Langrill maintains that the term "alternative" does not 
definitively exclude more 
popular music. He cites as 
examples WVFI's daily menu of 
specialty shows, which include 
weekly two-hour spots on heavy 
metal, reggae and the Grateful 
Dead. 
"We have our specialty shows, 
which are also an alternative to 
what is on commercial radio," 
said Langrill. "I wouldn't say 
that our music is limited to rock 
that people have never heard." 
But this rock, put out by in­
dependent labels located in 
towns across the country, is a 
major part of WVFI's pro­
gramming. However, these 
groups are not always appreci­
ated by the station's potential 
audience. 
"At Notre Dame, it's so easy 
to be 'alternative,'" said Jotz. 
"If you have hair below your 
ears or vote democratic then 
you're 'alternative."' 
The conservative musical 
taste of the Notre Dame student 
body causes many students to 
shy away from WVFI's 
programming, which is always 
eclectic and sometimes esoteric. 
Though interest in the station 
soared during the fall semester, 
WVFI disc jockeys again have to 
deal with playing music to a 
nearly nonexistent audience. 
WVFI received tremendous 
attention in campus media dur­
ing the fall semester when the 
station investigated a move to 
FM from its current AM status. 
But the move was blocked when 
a costly FCC investigation de­
termined that space on the edu­
cational band of the FM dial 
was simply unavailable. 
"FM really isn't an option for next year," said Langrill. "But it's still there. It's not a dead issue." 
"AM as a medium for music is dead," said Jotz. "And any car­rier current system is doing a vast amount to reinforce the stereotype that Notre Dame doesn't care about either off­campus students or the South Bend community." 
WVFI's carrier current system limits the station's reception range to the residence halls of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Langrill recently inspected the carrier current units with a representative of Radio Sys­tems, which originally installed the system. 
"Our carrier current system is relatively new, and was a custom job,'' said Langrill, who served as WVFI's chief engineer for two years before being cho­sen station manager last month. 
However, the student body's perception of WVFI is that of a ham radio outfit. 
"Sometimes our signal is bad, but while we were checking the dorms, the signal was great at times," said Langrill "The con­ception that the station always has a bad signal hurts us more than anything else. People ac­tually have to give it a listen." 
South Ben 
By KENYA JOHNSON 
Accent Writer 

L 
ife is filled with difficult decisions, but choosing a radio station 
should not be one of 
them. 

Contrary to what most may believe, South Bend/ Michiana/Elkhart area radio dials are jam-packed stations offering a number of options. Classic Rock. Country. Top 40. The variety are there, the choice is up to the individual. 
According to the Arbitron ratings the following radio stations are the top six in the South Bend community respec­tively: WAOR 95 FM, WNSN 
101.5 FM, WGTC 102.3 FM, WNDU 92.9 FM, WLTA 100.7 FM, and WRBR 103.9 FM. 
WAOR 95FM plays the tradi­tional 'Classic Rock'. Program director John Vance said that the station sees classic rock as the best way to go for any radio station. 
"Everybody loves it. It seems no matter what age, people simply like the sounds of classic rock." Vance explained that most of WAOR's younger audi­ence comes from Notre Dame. 
eas 
WNSN 101.5FM considers it-The self to be a 'light adult contem-hits porary hits' radio station. A Ron combination of favorites from Bar the "60's, 70's, 80's, and today" Dial! are played. There is no set pat-the I tern to the play list of music at W! the station, said one DJ. In fact, tion 
-~-, 
1 
I 
I pa e 13 I 
I 


e 

I za 


WSND tine arts station offers listeners variety 
airwaves alive with diversity 
ators said, the stress of is having variety more 
anything. would rather play an old wn hit, so long as it is 
than replay the same and songs all day," said >.1. buffs can to tune into 
102.3 FM. This station the 'twangy' old time 
music is not what's in . , according to OJ Doug 
I 
e like to call it modern ntry music," Montgomery . This includes such artists :lint Black, Bonnie Raitt, bama, and yes, Garth 
ks. DU 92.9FM is South 's only 'Top 40 hits' radio 
n. "When there is a search mixture of Michael Bolton, r Me Badd, Nirvana, 
nna, Prince and Mr. Big, U is the station to listen aid one OJ. explained that the station 
an influx of listeners on trdays and Sundays wh2n ; Dees, a comedian/disc 
y, reveals the top 40 hits in 
ation of that week via ite from Hollywood, Calif. TA 100.7FM is another 
listening music station. ight adult contemporary include those of Linda stadt, Whitney Houston, ara Streisand, Neil ond, Chicago, and those of 
e. hin the last year, the sta­has successfully made a transition from being an almost all instrumental music station, according to the station manager. 
WRBR 103.9 FM has also just changed its music format. Before September 2, 1991, WRBR was WZZP, a 'Top 40's' music station. General Manager, Vince Ford, said he saw a change in the attitude of the majority of radio listeners throughout South Bend. 
"The baby boomers are growing up," he said. "America is greying." Today WRBR fo­cuses in satisfying an audience looking to hear "Oldies, but Goodies." 
Ford said that two of the most requested artists are the legendary Beatles and 'The King,' Elvis Presley, but that there is also a refreshing mix of music, he added. 
Although they did not make the 'top six' list, there are still other stations in the area worth mentioning: 
•WCMR 1270AM, is a "Country Music Radio" station that recently made it's transi­tion from Dolly to Bonnie and Kenny to Randy, more modern country sounds; 
•WFRN 104.7FM, "Your friend in Michiana" plays con­temporary inspirational music described by a representative of the station as contemporary, upbeat, and Christian; 
•WZOW 97.7FM, "Home of Good Ol' Rock n' Roll" focuses on classic rock and roll artists such as Eric Clapton, Simon and Garfunkel, and Cream, but from time to time, playing some oldies like Jerry Lee Lewis. 

"The strength of the station does not only come from it's music, but it's attitude," ex­plained one OJ. "We go out on a limb everyday. We say and do things on radio that most only dream of. Some call us funny. 
·,Some call us jerks. We prefer the term 'outlaw-ish;'" 
•WSMK 
99.1FM serves as South Bend's only R&B soul station playing contemporary groups such as Jodeci and Boyz II Men as well as 'soul oldies' by groups such as Earth, Wind, and Fire, The Four Tops, and The Supremes; 

•WSBT 
960 AM is one of two "all talk" radio stations in the South Bend area. Serving as a radio formation of The South Bend Tribune, WSBT is a cur­rent events and news informing station; and 

•WAMJ 
1580 AM, sometimes referring to itself as "Smart Radio," is the other talk station, but with hour and half-hour programs ranging from local comedians to Jack Anderson's "Washington Hotline," the station is much more than just a news service, said one representative. 


So for all who believed South Bend is, has been, and always will be, doomed to life without good radio, start rethinking. The community is filled with a wide variety of stations that seems to fit everybody's needs. 
By AURELIE GALLAGHER 
Accent Writer 
S 
tudymode. 
To some that's a 
frightening phrase, but 
creating the right 
atmosphere can make even the most intense cramming bearable. 
A quiet nook. Good lighting. The right music. 
But who enjoys spending a hard-earned dollar on Mozart and Beethoven? OK, so maybe there are some people with mu­sical literacy, but sometimes it's nice to know that there is a more convenient alternative. 
WSND 88.9-FM is a fine arts radio station on Notre Dame's campus that plays a wide vari­ety of music appealing to an ex­tensive number of listeners. "Recent ratings show that WSND may have approximately 5,000 listeners at any given time," said General Manager Cathy Warrick. 
Located in the bell tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall, WSND is a strictly student. run station cre­ated over 30 years ago on AM radio. Now WVFI is the AM channel and in the last 20 years WSND has branched out on the FM dial. 
Although WSND is based upon a Fine Arts format, the staff said it realizes that the audience changes with every 
show because 

Nightflight airs from 12 to 2 
a.m. and plays a wide variety of music from Reggae to rock and even alternative bands. 
Spotlight on the 80's, which airs Friday nights from 12 to 2 a.m., is aimed particularly to­wards students. Listeners can relive high-school memories with popular artists ranging from Michael Jackson to Madonna as mainstream hits trigger memories of the wonder years. 
The Nocturne Nightflight ba­sically "blows the fine arts aspect of WSND out of the wa­ter!" said Coppola. 
Other shows on the program include features on local bands, one of the only Celtic programs in the area, a Children's Hour Saturday mornings, weekend request shows and even the news. 
As far as Big Band Broad­.. casting is concerned, Coppola states that "WSND is among the best in the area" as it tries to preserve our musical heritage. 
Although an on-campus st a tion, WSND relies upon the community for much of its fi­nancial support and aims to please both audiences. 
On Sunday, March 22 a con­cert was held as a fund raiser featuring members of the fac­ulty and students of the music department here at Notre Dame. This was the first at-
of the wide -------------tempt to raise variety of 'It' t . . d f money other 
programs. sa ralmng groun or than the annual As Program claSSiCal mUSiC and fund drives Director, announcing itself iS an which air twice 
C h r i s a.year Coppola said education.' . he enjoys the According to variety the Warrick there station offers -Chris Coppula are nearly 50 
but stresses the importance of continuity as well. 
Classical music may be played from 9 a.m. until 7 p.m., but after that the mood switches completely. WSND listeners can enjoy blues, Broadway or jazz with special shows airing every evening, according to Coppula. 
With a library of over 40,000 records, Brother Pedro Haer­ing's Show is the most popular program said Coppola. Brother Haering plays Classic American songs from the 40's and SO's on Friday evenings from 8 to 10 
p.m. and Sunday evenings from 7 to 10 p.m. 
A new program put together this semester is Sounds of the Silver Screen with Elizabeth Wholiha:n on Wednesday nights at 10 p.m. Wholihan invites lis­teners to call in with requests as a means of remembering classic hits from favorite films or soundtracks of sing-a-long type musicals. She said she ap­preciates audience response and wants to make this new show one the audience will en­joy. Every evening Nocturne 
DJ's at work from both the campus and the South Bend community-all are volunteers, with the exception of the executive staff who are paid a stipend. Still, the station is always in need of announc­ers, Warrick added . 
Open to new ideas and willing to train new volunteers the staff at WSND encourages student involvement, he said. 
"You don't need any previous experience and it's a lot of fun!" Warrick said. 
Coppola added "It's a train­ing ground for classical music and announcing itself is an edu­cation." If interested contact anyone on the executive staff or visit the station in the O"Shaughnessy clock tower. 
Even if announcing isn't your calling you can always find a wide variety of music on WSND. The staff invites anyone to call in (239-7342) and request a tune. Then sit back, enjoy a little culture, and maybe end the search for "study mode music" with the fine arts voice of Notre Dame, only a touch of the dial away, WSND 88.9-FM. 
page 14 

The Observer Friday, March 27, 1992 
Medjugorje revisited: or once more unto the breach 
Perhaps if I weren't so poorly Bernadette's Lourdes impressed 
I care a great deal about informed as a priest, or so me so much that I converted to Catholics who go on pilgrimages inexperienced, or unobservant, the Catholic religion so that I Father Robert Griffin to see if the sun dances at 
or lacking in scholarship as a could become a priest. Catholic, I would not love the Still, I wanted him to Letters to a Lonely God Church so much. understand that from my point 
of view as a wizened child of I am aware of the pain of Mary, he was putting the cart I presume that as long as the some of the great ones among before the horse. Church reserves judgment, the 
us, able to tell you in great l mean, instead of beginning a burden of proof is on them. So detail about all the Church's romance with the Church why are they writing letters to shortcomings as a power­because he believed that the the newspapers, questioning my structure which ruins lives. sun danced at Medjugorje, right to have honest doubts? wouldn't he be better off if he 
Listen. I had been a Catholic It's obvious from listening to could have decided whether for less than three years when I 
them that some of the dearest Medjugorje is credible as a holy came to ND as a student. Christians in every generation sun spot, after he had fallen in have been left to twist in the love with the Church? This means that apart from wind by insolent prelates, the religious instructions I 
indifferent to truth, charity, and Medjugorje, I think, mostly received from the Jesuits who social justice. has meaning if you believe that prepared me for baptism as a 
As a simple believer-who the Church is true, but the Catholic, all the religioustries on the articles of faith one Church doesn't owe the least education I have received as a leg at a time, hoping not to be thing in .the world to Catholic came from Holy Cross the first by whom the new is Medjugorje...except of course, priests with Notre Dame tried, or the last to lay the old the recruitment of this lad and connections. aside-I'm a contented priest, other Catholics. so impressed by and I trust the Holy Spirit to the alleged apparitions that The community I belong to guide the Church, forgive us our they're starting to regard venerates Mary; and in the sins, and keep us honest as the themselves as true believers. years before Vatican II, the 
people of God. When I cast doubts on Rosary and Litany were an Now, 38 years after Medjugorje, why am I put on important part of our prayer
ordination, I'm starting to trial as a false witness who tradition. wonder if I could have fallen writes sacrilegiously of the The scholarly priest who asleep, like Rip Van Winkle. I Blessed Mother, and attacks the taught us Scripture once gave mean, when did I lose the right moppets to whom she confides me a paper to do for a clerical to entertain doubts about secrets? conference on Jesus as the Medjugorje? Was it made a great High Priest. Later, in 
dogma one day while I was It has never been a habit of dogma class, I thought I napping? mine to badmouth children, and 
understood what it meant isn't it Medjugorje's when, as the great High Priest,
This afternoon, a very decent accreditation as a supernatural he entrusted the Church with Catholic lad told me that the series of events that's in limbo? 
the Eucharist and the Mass as 
news from Medjugorje has led The Medjugorites are the memorial meal which keeps him to believe in the Church so alleging that for over 10 years us mindful of Calvary. much, he's on the threshold-of now, the humble virgin who 
entering the seminary to uttered that Magnificat has You can get a picture of how become a priest. been talking her head off as the Jesus exercises His office as the I understood where he was Church's Jewish mother, great High Priest by reading the 
coming from. When l was his offering sinners her kind of Epistle to the Hebrews. You age, the news from St. chicken soup as penicillin. only have to be slightly familiar 
STUDENT WORLD PREMIERES 
-the be•t ln •tudent film &: video -wed. april bt -7:00 &: 9:00 -at the anite ­
If You Blink, You'll Miss The Big NeXT™ Sale. 
Nearly 40% saving before March 3'1! 
Admittedly. we're not giving you a lot of time. On the oth­er hand, we're giving you one of the most extraordinarydeals you'll ever see: 
Purchase a NeXTstatlonnA Color computer. with 17-or 21­lnch Color Display and 400 dpl NeXT™ Laser Printer by March 31st, and get nearly 40% off the list price. 
Of course, even•at full price, the NeXTstatlon Color com­puter offers more than any other machine In Its class; 16-blt color. 15 MIPS, standard UNIXTI~. 16MB of RAM, CO-quality sound, vast storage. true multitasking and the Industry'sonly true object oriented system software. 
With over 30 bundled applications, Including Mathematl­caTM, It's perfect for statistical analysis, In depth report writing. mathematics or any use that demands true-to-life­color. And with hundreds of off-the-shelf applications to choose from, like WordPerfert™. Lotus™ Improv™ and Soft­PCTM, it's a perfect productivity machine as well. 
Visit the Notre Dame Computer Resale Center! 

-~-

01997/lcXTC-.,..r:.hc.Urillto~IHXT.dvNdl'lilt-.WN.xT--. ..~ti{N.xTC~k. UNIXir•,.lill!n.l..-......o(UNIX~,._M"""--tbti.reNI._......_.of~R.-m, 


A.IMiwr ...,_.,_,.,_I,.,.,.,1t1 tJwi,~.,._,., ... 

L__________________________ -~---.. ----.
~ 
Medjugorje. I understand that they have made the place wonderful by the chemistry of their faith. 
with that Epistle to see that the Medjugorje could become one 
hype of Mary ("I am your of the great watering-holes of mother.") running interference faith in the world. for us as kind of co-redemptrix I'm not surprised to hear of is merely silly. 
miracles happening in such a In theology, am a climate of faith; and even if the lightweight. sun doesn't dance there, it 
Still, as a Catholic, I reserve 
wouldn't surprise me to hear it the right to question alleged 
takes a moonwalk every day in phenomena which seem at odds 
the cool of the evening. with the tradition of the Lamb of God taking away the sins of 
I understand that the Church the world, sacramentally is appropriately concerned that reenacted in the Mass, "the the 16 million souls who have 
Church's sacrifice," on which 
made the trip to the mountains the sun never sets. Medjugorje, should be encouraged to 
to my way of thinking, continue the renewal or trivializes and diminishes the 
deepening of faith that began in worth of the religion revealed 
the Yugoslavian village which by Christ in the New Testament 
they have discovered to be as it has been preserved for us 
grace-filled and holy, because by the Church, which has been 
they're in the company of souls meditating on the revelation for 
like themselves who are on the 2,000 years. lookout for God. 
Does the Mother of God doubts; but why do I read in my 
These may be minor-league 
appear there every day? Why mail, or in Letters to the Editor, 
would she need to? Such that I'm dishonest in having 
apparitions are of such stuff as them? I, too, could call names 
dreams are made of. Am I and make accusations; however, 
wounding the students by my I think that our discourse 
display of intolerance? Their should be more high-minded. 
consciences will heal quickly, Medjugorites generally tend 
once they awake to the truth of to be very fair people until you 
a Church that survives on tell them to their faces that 
mysteries that give glory to God. they're chasing rainbows. It's I have no wish to hurt their "odium theologicum" 
anybody for whom faith is a which riles them up like a 
struggle, though sometimes I mother cat defending her use rough language that will get kittens. I'm glad that they're too 
your attention. There's room in gentlemanly to get out the long 
the Church for all of us who feel knives which could seriously 
disposed to live as Christians wound the messenger. 
favoring the Catholic outlook. 
Saveonthisattractive carryingcasewhenyoubuyouryogurt. 

-------------------,r-----------------­
SAVE ~ !i! SAVE~ 
when yoo buy a medium or laJ%e waHle 1'1 when yoo buy a medium or.:~ ol :r~~~'"'l-: ~;'~tfl'lginal.Ne
Nonfat :: 

~~~~..'!.~-' II ~~~~~~Uiiaod 
ec..onlld ....z~~htr<.... A" ~-II c...,.........,.:.T.:..;;;..... 
(w.r~ .:-~ •• ~.._. 
1

~ "f ....."_ ,...
:: f.-::':~~:-~,-:-:-:-~,......-:: 

v I-IV 
'I'III'Dim1'11An'WIDN'I'III'Witlllll0¥a I I Till'DimTHAn'WIDN'I'III'WitlllDOV'a; 1:.1-IC..Ol......lro'f'apoAlii,.,_.,..USA II tl... l(.aool ....... Y..... lllll,__.,,.u&A I·I 
L------------------~L------------------1 
OFFER 

EXPIRES: 4/30/92 
1635 EDISON RD, SOUfH BEND (2 BWCKS EAST OF STADIUM) 
The Observer accepts class~ieds every business day from 10 a.on to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All class~ieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, induding all spaCI!S. 
SALES  Rent one bdrm apartmt close to  ADOPTION  VOTE  FOR JAMIE O'BRIEN  
NOTICES  NOW HIRING FULL TIME AND  campus, $250+ util, dep. 288-4919.  Custom-made HAIR-BOWS  If you think it may be best for your baby and for you to consider  SBA TREASURER. JAMIE O'BRIEN  
PART TIME SALES ASSOCIATES  adoption, please call us. We are a  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082.  FOR IMMEDIATE OPENINGS OR SUMMER HELP IN THE NEAR WEST SUBURBS OF CHICAGO  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., for large 4-BR, furnished house.  by Lynn and Sally call x2764  responsible, childless couple with values and traditions which offer a child security, 2 loving parents, and  BREEN-PHILLIPS 2ND ANNUAL  
Complete security system; washer  a warm home. We hope you will  EUCHRE TOURNAMENTII  
WE OFFER:  & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259­ -various materials, designs  choose us to be the parents of your  SIGN-UPS IN NOH AND SDH  
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  • $8-$15 PER HOUR • WEEKLY PAYOUT • TRAINING PROVIDED  7801 or 255-5852.  and colors available- baby. Legal and Medical expenses paid. Please call Bill and Kathy, collect, at 219-322-8187.  FROM TUES. MARCH 31 TO THURS. APRIL 2.  
• FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE  Furnished:  
(10-40 HRS. PER WEEK)  Turtlecreek Court Townhouse  D  SMC chicks (hal) have fun with your  
Seniors-Seniors Graduating and still don't have job plans? New company that has been actually adding hundreds of people thru dramatic expansion seeks motivated/ career oriented individuals to help expansion into new markets. Interviews will be held on April 8 & 9 at Career and Placement. Call student liason at x3457 to set up times.  • SATURDAY INTERVIEWING AVAILABLE. CALL (708) 955-3578 AND ASK FOR PHYL. Now taking aplication for part-time employment in a Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop exp. required. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  Available for summer rental Please contact 277-6259 Attractive studio's in lovely old Mansion 1 /2 mile from ND 225­300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624 for summer and fall rentals. 6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306  I s S SATURDAY F Mar. 28, 1 0:00­U N AT BRIDGET'S K T I 0 N In the heart of every woman, there  Rumor...Eivis has been seen eating an omelet at Greenfields Cafe. Happy Birthday Joe Roberts THE METHA-TONES Sat. March 28 Club 23 Make-up and handcuffs optional  moms this weekend. And, of course, a special welcome to Mother Ninja. -and what does that mean? I'm stubborn about everything? I don't get it\ Can you spare a clue? ...Drew WANT COED HOUSING? Sign the Petition Mon 3/30-Wed 4/1  
Free transportation! Room & Board!  is a Mardi Gras Mombo waiting to  
LOST/FOUND  Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program  FOR SALE  come out...  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure  lluv MTS  
LOST: Black Kodak 35mm camera at Lafayette Square on St. Patrick's  call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  Del Leppard's Edrenalize New at the bookstore!!!  Workin' it on her Birthday!! Go Patty!  Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please  Happy Birthday to  
Day.  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more  Patty Gilbert!  
Call284-5470  information.  Luv ya, Sister!  
LOST: woman's petite green class ring. Inscription reads "ACS '93". If found please return to 143 Farley or Angie at 4095.  Need ride to North Carolina May 8th or 9th Will split tolls and gas Call Dave 3633 Goin' to Chicago on the 31st? U2? Need a ride there? WE DOl!! Call  STUDENTS & PARENTS\ SAVE on those housing costs. Buy this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. Get a break on your taxes, and a return on your investment after graduation. Call Janet Knapp at RE/MAX 100 realty for more information. 219-255-5858 or 219­277-7402.  19??? Patty, is that your age or your hook­up tally? Just wondering? Happy Birthday!! Top 5 reasons for Steen and Jith to  ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP DRIVEl DANCE PARTY FRIDAY APRIL 27th 9:30pm-! :30am  from all of your siblings!! Michael, my heart doth beat for thee alone. -renee  
I lost a Notre Dame Lacrosse  B.P.1323, honey, for riders and gas  have an awesome weekend:  THEODORE'S  BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXI  
sweatshirt Sat. night somewhere on  moneyII  5) "Count me out-1 will be at  OPEN TO ALLII  Hall of Fame Game -Behind the  
South Quad. It has #34 on the front and I really need it back. If you've found it, please call Kristine at X3352.  MICRO TUTOR NEEDED,  For sale: U2 tix. Call 284-4230 or 284-4145.  Pamela's" 4) "In the bunks, in the playing fields..." 3) "Nice eyes, all of you"  AAA Just Do 11!!1  Bookstore, 3 pm Sun 3/29  
CSE332/EE361,2 hrs/week@  2) ''That would be me-l've been  K  
$7.50/hr. (negotiable). call Mike x2058  TICKETS  swimming in raw sewage" 1) "And monkeys might fly out of my  A T  I'm Brooklyn  
LOST Black & Silver Watch  butt!!\"  E  
Sat. night at Battle of the Bands  U2 TICKETS FOR SALE  M  
Reward  Call Matt x2347  Need a job tor next year? Nanny for  March 31 concert at the Rosemount  c  May we see your brains, please.  
newborn in our Granger home, M-F,  Horizon  HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY  L  
begin late Aug. Live in or out. 271­ best offer  PATIY GILBERTI  E  
1935  call 284-3814  We were gonna put in a pic, but we  A  
String of Pearls found outside Breen Phillips 3/19/92 Contact 101 O'Shag  I  FOR RENT  leave name, ph# and price you are willing to pay  found a better way to spend the $ .. Luv yal Sister, 2 Brothers, Chris O'C, Bryan, John, Cara, Liz & Tara  N I s  Nicole Lamborne CONGRATULATIONS babe!! You'll do awesome. I'm so psyched for you. Thank god for Rollerblades  
FOR RENT;  -FAST CASH­ 2  or else how could I visit you in down South.  
LOST: Black Case Swiss tote bag filled with books on 9th Hesburgh. Very important!! Call 273-9033. LOST: Navy blue ID CASE at Lafayette Square on 3/17. Many needed cards inside. If found, please call x2722. ••LOST..  TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE. SUMMER SUBLET. WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. TWO BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE HALF BATHS, LARGE LIVING AREA, FENCED IN PATIO. IF INTERESTED, CALL; ERIC X1392 BRYAN,BRENNAN X1392 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  Need "any" 2 commencm't tix. Promise them now for big bucks...PLEASEII Karen 2770 PERSONAL INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  HEY ELIZABETH ANN MACORI HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY! JAKES is a lot more fun with you around-our Dragon Lady!Long lives menthols\ BYEI We love you. US. hey nil STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  1 HAPPY 8-DAY TO YOU (and ME!) LOTS of LOVE, MARC Please, help me. If anyone out there has McDonald's Basketball Cards I need them. If I achieve nothing else in my life, at least I want to have the  Ann Eileen O'Connor Austrian Goddess Come back soon Our parties aren't the same anymore. The other day we did the sprinkler in honor of you. Hey world!\ Did I tell you? My  
a green jacket w/ a tan/brown collar lost at turtle creek on st. Patty's day. call mike X4183  3 Bedroom Walk to Campus $555 Month 232 3616  I, myself. cannot. We are not strong  Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  entire set. I will cosider buying, trading, or even accepting them as a gift. If you have any information at all concerning this please take baby steps to the phone and call Quinn at x2059.  roomie is going to Pangborn. Congratulations Nicole Dear Bucky:  
• Found at NAZZ • Gold and Silver bracelet found at Nazz last Saturday -call and describe it if you want it back! -Ryan x1247 LOST! LOST\ LOST\ LOST! LOST! On Wednesday, 3/25, I lost my HP­178 business calculator somewhere on campus. SERIOUS REWARD!!!! John x3588.  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12 NEW UNITS-1300 sq. ft.­Ironwood & Bulla -2 8/R -2 Bath ­available immediately-call287­0534 or 271-9268. Ideal house for graduate student with family. 3 bdr 2 bath. One block from ND. 637 Peashway. $525 month 234-1714  You should be with us, feeling like we do... Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hotel, has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd., Elkhart, IN 46514.  The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin It puts the lotion on its skin, or else it gets the hose again. (Stupid.)  To The Notre Dame Family, I need your help. My three sisters, two brothers, and my mom and dad are coming for graduation in may. That means I need to find at least three extra gradution tickets. Is there anyone that could spare an extra ticket or two? I would appreciate any help. Please call Cris@ x4907.  You are a great boyfriend even tRe~n~ ) e~ ere a Bt~""Bt~e "ea~ from time to time !I! (Hee, Hee-Just Kidding, You're NEVER a Bumbus) I love You!\ Princess LOST; A PAIR OF BROWN EYEGLASSES IN LAFORTUNE  
WANTED  COMPUTER LAB OR FITZPATRICK COMPUTER LAB.  
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373 $350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL' YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. Female roommate wanted for May. Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $415/mo plus utilities. call (312) 975-5035.  1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794. NEEDED TWO FEMALE ROOMMATES TO SHARE FURNISHED OAKHILL CONDO FOR SUMMER AND/OR 92-93 YEAR. AMY@ 277-9452 HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8 BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287­4989.  Try the most deliciously kept secret on campus...Greenfields Cafe. NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation please call Neal at 283-1159 Watch your favorite Lyonite get creamed today I!I 4:30 p.m. under the Arch BEADS?????PAT OBRIEN'S??? WHAT IS SO CRAZY??? I DO NOT UNDERSTAND????  She sings a song and I listen to what it says-If you want a friend, feed any animal There's so much space, I cut me a piece with some fine wine, It brought peace to my mind in the Summertime, And it rolled! ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED, FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID. JUDITH AND JESSE:'-1-800-933­3499.  To The Notre Dame Family, I need your help. My three sisters, two brothers, and my mom and dad are coming for graduation in may. That means I need to find at least three extra gradution tickets. Is there anyone that could spare an extra ticket or two? I would appreciate any help. Please call Cris @ x4907.  CALL FRANK X1692 PRINCESS; YOU ARE SUCH A SWEETIE PIE COOCHY COOCHY COOCHY11 HAVE A WONDERFUL WEEKEND (WINK, WINK,WINK) I LOVE YOU TOO BUCKY  

 ·fh  _.,. ..,.A ~;;r,., .... - 




NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
WALES CONFERENCE 
Patrick Dlv'-lon 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 

Allanlie Dlvlalon BASEBALL
w l T 

American League \w l Pet. CB y-NY Rangers 49 
23 5 KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Waived Kevin Sahzar, third baseman, tor the prupoae atx-Naw York 44 .638
25 x-Washlngton 42 26 7 giving him his unconditional release. Sent Dennis Moeller, pitcher, Ia their minor league camp torBoston 40 30 .571 4 112 x-New Jersey 36 28 11 reassignment.
Miami 32 38 .457 12 1/2 Pittsburgh 36 30 9 SEATTLE MARINERS-Sent Brant Boone, Infielder, to their minor league camp for New Jamay 31 38 .449 13 NY Islanders 31 34 10 reassignment.
Philadelphia
Philadelphia 31 39 .443 13 112 30 34 11 TEXAS RANGERs-optioned Jose Hernandez and Rob Maurer, Infielders, to
Adame Dlvlelon
Washington 22 49 .310 Oklahoma City at the Amerlcan Association. Rea88igned Doug Davia, catcher, to Oklahoma Chy. 
23 

y-Montreal 41 10
25 x-Boaton
Orlando 17 53 .243 27 1/2 Opeioned Crls Colon, Infielder. to Tulsa of the Texas league.
33 32 10 
National League
Central Dlvlalon 

•·Buffalo 30 33 11 CINCINNATI RED8-0ptioned Gino Mlnutalll and Mo Sanford, phchars, to NashvHia of
x-Chlcago 57 13 .814 x-Hartford 
24 39 12 

the American Association. Sent Dan Wilson, catcher, to their minor league camp tor reaBBignment.
x-Ciavaland 47 .691 Quebec
21 9 16 46 11 MONTREAL EXPOS-Optioned Wll Cordero, shortstop, and Kant Bottenfield, pitcher, Detroit 41 29 .586 16 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
to Indianapolis.Indiana 
Norrie Dlvlalon
35 37 .486 23 BASKETBALL 
w l T

Atlanta 34 36 .486 23 National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon
x-Datroit 39 11
25

Milwaukee LOS ANGELES LAKERS-Piaced Sam Perkins, center-forward, on the Injury list. 
30 39 .435 26 112 

x-Chlcago 34 
27 14 28 x-St. Louis 34 32 10WESTERN CONFERENCE Minnesota 31 
Charlotte 28 40 .412 Activated Keith Owens, forward. 
United States Basketball league
38 5 

MIAMI-Named Jordan Bressler media relations director.
Mldweat Dlvlalon Toronto 
28 40 7 NEW JERSEY-Announced resignation of Bob Gr088man, general manager.
w l Pet. CB Smythe Dlvlalon FOOTBALL 
Utah 46 Y·Vancouver 41 23 11
23 .667 National Football League
x-los Angeles 34 29 13
San Antonio 42 27 .609 4 GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Adrian White, salety.
•·Edmonton 34 32 
9

Houston 37 34 .521 10 World League
Winnipeg 28 32 15 SACRAMENTO SURGE-Released leroy Etienne, linebacker.
Denver 23 47 .329 

23 112 Calgary 28 36 11 Arena Football LeagueDallas 17 54 .239 30 San Jose 17 54 5 CHARLOTIE RAGE--Signed Joe Delamlellaure, canter-noaa guard, and named him
Minnesota 11 58 .159 35 x-clinched playoff berth. 
director of community development. 

Pacific Dlvlalon y-won division title. 
COLLEGEThursday's Games

x-Portland 50 20 .714 FAIRFIELD-Named Debra Belkin woman's soccer coach. 
New Jersey 4, Boston 2

Golden State 45 23 .682 4 INDIANAPOLIS-Named Royce Wahman man's basketball coach. 
N.Y. Islanders 7, San Jose 4 Phoenix 45 25 .643 5 Pittsburgh 7, Vancouver 3 Seattle' 
39 31 .557 11 

Chicago 5, Quebec 4, OT LA Cllppam 38 32 .543 12 
St. Louis 7, Hartford 2 LA lakam 36 32 .529 13 Calgary 7, Los Angeles 2 
MIAMI HURRICANES BASEBALL STATS (22-4~
Sacramento 23 48 .324 27 1/2 Friday's Games PLAYER BA AB R RBI HR S 
x-cllnchad olavoll berth. Montreal at Washington, 7:35 p.m. 
Hernandez, luis .444 18 10 2 0 7 Los Angeles at Winnipeg, 8:35 p.m. 
Smnh, Johnathen .376 85 23 21 4 10 Minnesota at Edmonton, 9:35p.m. 
Ellstrom, Rick 364 44 11 18 2 4 Hoelker, Chad .357 14 5 4 0 0 DiMare, Gino .346 81 24 10 1 13 Berg, Dave .342 79 19 15 0 5 Coleman, Greg .333 51 14 14 0 4 Llanes, Juan .324 34 9 8 0 1 Thomson, Bruce .319 66 19 12 1 9
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL PROBABLE STARTING LINEUP Rupp, Chad .318 44 12 17 4 0 
Pas. Player Anderson, Chris .310 42 13 9 1 1
1992 Stats Notes 
Johnson, Charles .295 79 18 21 1 0c Bob Lisnati, Fr. .192, 0 HR, 2 RBI Has started all 9 games behind the dish DiGiacomo, Kevin .296 42 10 12 2 0 
or Matt Haas .278, 0 HR, 4 RBI 4-for-8, 3 RBI in last 3 starts Robinson, Donald .273 22 10 8 2 1 
Mlrands, Alex .271 59 12 12 4 2
Joe Binkiewicz, Sr. .276, 3 HR, 11 RBI 3 HR in last 5 games Best, Gary .235 17 6 7 1 0 
Greg Layson, So. .257. 0 HR, 3 RBI Pinch-hit GWRBI vs. Yale TpP9tt, Kehh .200 35 6 6 1 0 Mora, Frank .192 52 15 9 2 0
or Robby Birk, Fr. .250, 0 HR, 1 RBI 4-for-1 0, 4 runs in Kingdome 
Pujals, Denis .000 1 0 0 0 0 Craig Counsell, Sr. .345, 2 HR, 12 RBI 6-for-11 vs. ASU, 15 walks in '92 HURRICANES .313 864 234 205 26 56 OPPONENTS .199 831 81 72 14 11
Cory Mee, Sr. .308, 1 HR , 8 RBI Hit safely in 12 of 15 games 
Steve Verduzco, Fr. .184, 0 HR, 2 RBI 1st mulit-hit game Sunday PITCHING ERA W-L IP H so BB 0.30 5·0 30.0 8 30 10
Dan Bautch, Jr. .182, 2 SB, 6 BB On-base perrcentage of .455 Cansale, Silvio 
Gandarlllas, Gus 1.08 1·1 25.0 11 25 2
or Paul Failla, Fr. .184, 1 HR, 2 RBI Crushed left-handed homer in dome Crow, Dean 1.93 1·0 9.3 7 10 3 Eric Danapilis. Jr. .320, 2 HR, 15 RBI 3 -for-4 with 3B, HR last Sunday Alkire, Jeff 2.01 5·1 44.7 t5 49 11 
Henderson, Kenny 2.09 6·1 47.7 11 47 22
Craig DeSensi, Fr, .105, 0 HR, 3 RBI Two GWRBI with only two hits 
Graves, Danny 2.31 1·0 11.7 7 12 3 
or Pat Leahy, Jr. .281, 2 HR, 6 RBI 6 of 9 hits for extra bases Arrieta. Fadut 3.067 1-0 17.7 9 22 7 Ruiz, Fernando 4.50 0-0 2.0 1 1 1 Prado, Jose 5.33 2·1 25.3 31 18 tO Seale, Jeff 5.40 0-0 3.3 2 3 1 Pujals, Denis 6.35 0-0 11.3 B 13 6 Dorish, Dave 7.36 0-0 3.7 3 1 0 Brown, Clint 9.00 0-0 1.0 1 1 2 HURRICANES 2.55 22-4 232.7 165 232 77 
OPPONENTS 7.68 4-22 213.0 270 178 151 


Sure, there are other schools. But why settle? Kaplan prep courses help students raise their scores and theirchancesof being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's Seniors are invited to 
The Senior Informal 
April3, I992 
7:00 p.m. • I2 Midnight 
A Polish wedding banquet will be served. 
Two great campus bands • DissFunktion and Jasmine Groove will provide dance music all night long 
The Cost: $22.00 a couple, Sis.oo single 
The Venue: St. Hedwig's Memorial BaD Western Avenue at Scott Street 
Tickets are available lrom the LaFortune Ticket Desk and must be purchased by March 30th. 
Sponsored by the OR-campus CoaUtlon lor QuaUty ol Ule 
For further Information contact: 
Mike Richardson Z7Z-6392 
Jim Mahony Z89-7'73. 
Tom McDermott :139-7800 

Friday, March 27,1992 The Observer page 17 
Midwest and Southeast regionals continue today 

Connecticut. AP File p: 10to every team deserves to be Davis had an excuse available North Carolina coach Dean Smith argues a call in last year's Final Four. The legendary coach leads his Tar here." -a sprained left ankle sus­Heels in their 12th consecutive Sweet 16 appearance tonight against Ohio State. His Yellow Jackets (23-11}, tained in North Carolina's loss the No. 7 seed, will meet No. 6
he was in there." sibly leaving the game to be de­"The last year I coached was 
to Duke in the ACC fmals -but seed Memphis State (22-10} on
Jackson, by contrast, was in cided underneath. North a difficult one for all of us,"
chose not to employ it. Friday night. Cincinnati (27-4}
perfect health last weekend. His Carolina's 7-footer, Eric Sutton said. "I think all of us
"None of it was the ankle," he plays ninth-seeded UTEP (27-6} 
poor shooting continued an un­Montross, will be matched have been able to pick up the
said. "None of it at all. in the late game. 
settling trend that began when against smaller (6-9} but pieces and go on with our lives.
Sometimes it just doesn't go in The Yellow Jackets are
he went 12-for-32 in the quicker Lawrence Rick (Pitino} and what they've
as usual. Some outside forces making their ftfth final 16 ap­
Buckeyes' final two tournament Funderburke. Montross expects been able to do here is out­
might have moved the basket." pearance and were in the Final
games last year. plenty of pushing and shoving. standing. So Kentucky has it
Davis, the nephew of former Four in 1990, but even Cremins
When you can't buy a shot, he "The Big 10 has a history of back on track. Those young
North Carolina and NBA admits to being surprised.
said, you compensate by con­playing very physically. The men who went through what
standout Walter Davis, rested "We have lacked confidence,
tributing in other ways. ACC is a very physical league as we had to go through are
the ankle for a couple of days we have lacked leadership, and
"You know, sometimes you well. They have a strong front tougher people for it. I have no
this week before going full now we have those things," he
may have an off shooting night line, as do we," Montross said. bitterness toward anybody
speed during the Tar Heels' 40-said.
or two. But I don't rely so much Ohio State (25-5) has played here.
minute practice at Rupp Arena. "I just can't say enough about
on scoring all the time, because North Carolina (23-9} six times "I hope the focus here is on
Coach Dean Smith liked what the unselfishness of both these
we have four or five other guys in the past, losing five. the the regional tournament. It
he saw. guys, the defensive work
who can put it in the hole," Buckeyes' only win over the Tar would be unfair to the other
"I was as anxious as some of they've been doing," Cremins
Jackson said. "I try to do what Heels was at Columbus in 1929. teams and to our ballclub to 
you were to watch him, because said. "I just hope it continues
it takes to win, whether it's re­In Friday night's second talk about Eddie Sutton and
he hasn't worked out since the that way. Three or four weeks
bounding, defense, or getting game, Eddie Sutton returns to Kentucky."
Alabama game," Smith said. "I ago we didn't have that." 
other people the ball. That's the Rupp Arena as the coach of No. Oklahoma State-Michigan
saw him shoot jump shots yes­Like Georgia Tech, Memphis 
key to a good team, having 11 Oklahoma State (28-7}, presents an intriguing match of
terday and I was impressed that State is young. David Vaughn,
other guys step up when one which meets No. 15 Michigan experience vs. talent.
he had some lift. But what I was whose follow shot in the closing
guy's not producing." (22-8}. Michigan's Fab Five freshmen
really pleased about today was seconds beat Arkansas, is a
If Davis and Jackson find their Sutton coached Kentucky for have played with poise so far,
watching him defensively. freshman. Guard Anfernee
shots, their scoring (Davis at four seasons, leaving in 1989 but Oklahoma State's defense
That's where it would really Hardaway is a sophomore, but
21.4 points, Jackson at 23 just as two years of NCAA specializes in rattling oppo­
hurt, push him out defensively missed last year due to
points} would cancel out, pos-sanctions were to begin. nents. 
or force us to use a zone while Proposition 48. Juniors Billy Smith and Anthony Douglas ~/////. '////////////////////////~ played sparingly a year ago. 
1. 1 Th Qb "If you had told me at the
I. I. e server beginning of the year that we.d ~ ~ be sitting here in Kansas City I Hey What1S ~ is now accepting application for the preparing to play in the sweet
I. ' I Sixteen, I'd have said 'Whoa, ~ 1. following position: that's a little fast.~ coach Larry 
~ Goi·ng On?. ~ Finch said. "They have really
'· ,_ matured, and I think a lot of it ~ ~ Day Editor is attributable to our schedule."
I L h 20f f'·
I "The schedule has meant a
I. 0 man s .-~ lot to the program, and hope­~ 1. fully it will show at the end, ~ GI·ve hi·m a bi·g~ Must be available for any of the following once we complete this tourna­'· ,_ afternoons: ment," Finch said. 
I. 1. Cincinnati won NCAA cham­
1. 1. Tuesdays or Thursdays pionships in 1961 and 1962 
~ thumbs up N
~ and finished second the next 
,_ ~: No Experience eeessary year. But the Bearcats haven't 
~ I. To apply, contact Colleen Knight at 239-7471. advanced this far since 1975I ~ and haven't earned a berth in 
~///////////////////////////////.//////. the tournament since 1977. 
I' ~:~::~?;;.~::;:~: t \\'I ,--------~-~-~-~-e-h-~-0-~-m-i~-;e-~-s?-:-~.:-S-~---im_M_~_r_l~-,~------. ~~~~~~;~~f{~~~ 


Monday, March 30, 1992 
at 7:30p.m. Keenan Hall Chapel 
Sponsored by: Baptist Student Union Campus Bible Study Campus Fellowship Campus Ministry Communion and Liberation Fellowship of Christian Athletes 

All Are Welcome :::::::: 

lr ~v& =t<lr~ l!s IR\IR\n n'2l 'il ..l perhaps the tournament's 
UU~G ~ \\Jl ~u uu u~@ U -:L--biggest upset by beating top­tt""rri)~~l"~!l)l ~lkff1\ .J ·--seeded Kansas 66-60 in the
~IPu uu u~ .Q)U u{);W -~.:r~ second round. 
Sunday "' j.. _..___ "We beat Kansas, we cele­-J. "-j-brated after the game and theMarch 29, 1.992 ~ -~--celebration has stopped,"
guard Prince Stewart said. "We
1:3QPM -• t--­
don't just want to get to the Sweet Sixteen and have things stop for us. We want to con-
l =-·­

.........ao• • tinue to win games."
Rolfs Aquatic 
-,---~-The game figures to be a ....-ill48 -~-clash of styles. UTEP coach Don 
Center 
~ 
Haskins, who used a four­-:~-..----corner offense to frustrate
I Kansas, preaches patience onFree ~ offense and strong half-court defense. Cincinnati prefers full-
Admission 
#................ ~.. ~~=-------~.:;~.pressure and a quicker 
.-= _ _ "We'll have to see if we have
~~ 
enough poise and patience to
Everyone , 
get the ball where we want it," 4 Haskins said. "We've got to
\~.! o.lr-nmo.
VV \... 1\_.,VI I 1\... make them pay. If we don't ,. c ill• make them pay, we can't win." 
j
dt~~ttttt~r~ttt~~~\~~tt>~~~~~~>>>>t>tf~~rrr~~~~~t~~~~~~~>ftf~~~~~~~~t}til~~~~ '-------------------------~ 

--------------~----~---~---~ -­
page 18 The Observer Friday, March 27,1992 
Tyson's prison sentence completes his fall from glory 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Mike 
Tyson was sentenced today to 
six years in prison for raping a 
teen-age beauty queen and sent 
directly to jail by a judge who 
feared the former heavyweight 
champion would rape again. 
"Something needs to be done 
about the attitude you displayed 
here," Superior Court Judge 
Patricia Gifford said. 
Gifford denied Tyson's petition 
for bail. He was escorted out of 
the courtroom by five 
uniformed sheriff's deputies 
and taken to a prison reception 
center in nearby Plainfield, 
where new inmates are evalu­
ated. Tyson arrived at prison in 
handcuffs. 
Under Indiana law, a convict 
must serve at least half his sen­
tence, meaning Tyson could be 
released in three years if his 
behavior in prison is good. 
Tyson's lawyers have promised to appeal the case, and defense lawyer Alan M. Dershowitz immediately ap­pealed the bail denial. 
The judge sentenced Tyson to 10 years on each count, then suspended four of the 10 years and said the six-year sentences would run concurrently. He also was fined $10,000 on each count for a total of $30,000, the maximum allowed. 
Gifford ordered Tyson to serve four years' probation after prison and to get psychotherapy during that period. 
Tyson was sentenced for his Feb. 10 convictions on charges of rape and criminal deviate conduct against Desiree Washington, a teen-age Miss Black America pageant contes­tant, in his hotel room July 19. 
A<> soon as Gifford denied ball, Tyson calmly removed his watch and tie pin as he began to stand up and handed them to Vincent Fuller, his lead trial lawyer. 
Tyson turned and embraced Camille Ewald, the woman in whose home he lived in Catskill, 
N.Y. after he left reform school and began the road to the title. 

IT'S NEVER TOO LATE TO BE PREPARED . 
• 
No More Than 10 Students Per Class 

• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 


• 
Live Tutorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 



~OUCAliONAL GROUP
•
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
27:J-186t.

• Constantly Updated Courses And Materials 
227 US 31 NORTH Across from Knights Inn Suite 210 
WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 
He became world heavyweight 
champion at 20, the youngest 
ever. 

In his 10-minute address to 
the court, the former heavy­
weight champion spoke in a 
calm voice but sometimes was 
rambling. 

"I expect the worst. I don't know If I can deal with it," Tyson said. ''I'd be afraid but I'm not guilty of this crime. I didn't hurt anybody -no black eyes, no broken ribs." 
At another point, he said, "I didn't rape anyone. I didn't at­tempt to rape anyone. I'm sorry. I agree I've done something, but I didn't mean to." 
Fuller, urged her to sentence Tyson to a work-release center or another place other than prison where he could be reha­bilitated. 
"I'm not asking the court for leniency, but I am asking for compassion," Fuller said. 
"This case is a tragedy, but what I fear most is that years of incarceration would do nothing for Mr. Tyson but put him back where he came from and make him worse," he said. 
Modisett recommended eight­to-t 0 years in prison and the $30,000 fine. Prosecutors on Wednesday also asked the court to order Tyson to reimburse the state the $150,000 spent to prosecute him, but that motion was denied. 
Though Washington was not at the sentencing, Garrison said she sent the judge a statement. He did not say what it said; in the past, she has said that she wants Tyson imprisoned as long as needed to rehabilitate him. 
The Coven try, R.I., college student testified during the two­week trial that Tyson coaxed her to his hotel room, pinned her to the bed, stripped her, raped her and laughed while she cried in pain and begged him to stop. 
Tyson testified he proposi­tioned Washington, then 18, with an unmistakable sexual vulgarity, and that she willingly 
-~ n.~ ~'\.tl'rh '-~r5"J:...I"' 1
AL
\Yn L 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Voted Best 
Oriental Restaurant 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by130 Dixie WayS., South Bend 

Micltiana Now 
(next to Randall's Inn) 

~ 
Mike Tyson delivers a blow to Razor Ruddock in last year's fight in Las Vegas. out punch yesterday, sentencing the former champion to six years in prison. 
AP File photo A judge dealt Tyson a knock 
had sex with him. 

In a motion filed Wednesday, Dershowitz, a Harvard law professor whose clients have included hotelier Leona Helmsley, socialite Claus von Bulow and evangelist Jim Bakker, cited several issues to be raised on appeal. They in­cluded problems with the jury selection process, and the ex­clusion of testimony from three witnesses who said they ob­served Tyson and a woman in a limousine before the incident. 
During the trial, the defense portrayed Tyson as a boor who pawed other contestants during pageant festivities and made his sexual desires plain. Washington was portrayed as a gold digger who cried rape. 
Chinese -American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 


Happy Belated Birthday Michael 

WBATABODY! 
Love, Your 
Famil 

'ri5~J r@c';::\___ -~, 212-a124 
·?!: urt1e ·~ /reel( 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/10 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
AHordable Student Housing 
SUNDRY, APRIL 26 7:30 PM MORRIS [ IIIIC AUDITORIUM 
RLL SEATS RESERUED: $19.50 RURILRBLE RT THE AUDITORIUM BOH OFFICE, TRRCKS,ORBIT RECORDS, RND WORLD RECORDS 
CHHR6E: 284-9140 
--------------~----­

Friday, March 27,1992 The Observer page 19 
NBA investigates Jordan's gambling Mets' Cone faces sexual 
GASTONIA, N.C. (AP) ­Copies of checks apparently written by Michael Jordan are among the documents belong­ing to a slain bail bondsman that will be presented to a fed­eral grand jury. 
"We received a subpoena for the contents of (Eddie Dow's) briefcase," said Gaston County Police Chief Tom McCarthy. "The subpoena came from a federal grand jury." 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
Leahy (.281, 2 HRs) are also hot at the plate. 
Because it is so early in the year and there is still a lot of baseball to be played, the Irish are not too worried about Miami. 
"(In order to win) we have to be a team, execute, do our thing, and not be intimidated by them at all," said Murphy. "We have strong beliefs in our program and that we can go and win all three. We put these teams on too much of a pedestal and make them better than they really are." 
McCarthy said he wasn't exactly sure what was in the briefcase, but the contents were turned over to federal officials Wednesday, the Gaston Gazette and The Charlotte Observer re­ported today. 
"I can tell you it doesn't have anything to do with Dow's murder investigation," McCarthy said. 
U.S. Attorney Tom Ashcraft would not comment on the sub­poena Wednesday night. 
The subpoena called for "any and all records, cassette tapes and memorandum contained in the metal briefcase" that Gaston County police confis­cated Feb. 23 during the probe of Dow's slaying. The docu­ments will be presented to the grand jury April 8. 
IRS agents filed a $22,321 federal tax lien against Dow and his former wife on March 3 for not paying his 1989 and 1990 personal income taxes. 
Gheen said money from Dow's estate has been used to pay Dow's 1989 taxes and that income taxes for 1990 and 1991 soon will be paid. 
The checks apparently signed by Jordan totaled $108,000. They were loans and paid for gambling losses that Jordan owed Dow and a Belmont builder, Stephen Gheen, a former attorney for Dow, said last week. 

The allegations prompted NBA officials to launch a probe to see if the checks were writ­ten to pay off wagers on private poker and golf games at Hilton Head Island, S.C. 
Jordan has denied any wrongdoing. 
Steve Dolley, who now man­ages the Dow estate, said he had not received a subpoena Wednesday. 
"This is news to me," Dolley said. "This is not something I'm likely to know about." 
Ashcraft's office last fall headed an investigation sur­rounding a $57,000 payment Jordan made to James "Slim" Bouler, a Union County man convicted of dealing cocaine. 
Federal prosecutors claimed Bouler won the money gam­bling in Hilton Head. But Bouler and Jordan said the money was a loan for Bouler's golf business. 
Bouler is under indictment on separate money laundering charges. 
Dow was shot Feb. 19 outside his Gaston County home. Police arrested three of his former employees and another man. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Amid an investigation into a rape accu­sation against three New York Mets, three women have named Mets pitcher David Cone in a $5 million civil suit which includes charges of sexual harassment. 
The New York Post reported today that the suit pending in a Rockland County court alleges that Cone exposed himself and masturbated before two women in the Shea Stadium bullpen before a game in 1989. The newspaper said that Debra Hittelman, Phyllis DeLucia and Joan 1\vohie, all 28, amended a previous suit this week to in­clude charges of sexual ha­rassment. 
The three women originally filed a suit against Cone and the Mets in September, com­plaining about an altercation at the stadium last summer when Cone allegedly went into the stands to accuse the women of harassing pitcher Sid Fernandez's wife. The Post re­ported that Hittelman says she had a relationship with Fernandez for three years and often traveled with him to games. 
The additional charges claim that Cone invited Hittelman and 
THE O'CONNOR PARTNERSHIPS 
LEADERS IN FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN DERIVATIVES TRADING AND FINANCIAL ENGINEERING 
O'Connor and Swiss Bank Corporation have recently announced their intention to integrate business activities, creating exciting career opportunities. 
O'Connor is a premier, international technology-based securities trading and tinancial risk management tirm that specializes in options, futures and other derivative instruments. Through our intensive, renowned training program, college graduates learn how to make effective trading decisions and manage portfolio risk in areas such as: foreign exchange; ,interest rates; and U.S., European and Japanese equities and indexes. 
Our merit-based environment encourage highly motivated individuals to quickly move into positions of magnitude in trading and risk management, both domestically and internationally. 
We seek exceptional people with proven academic and leadership skills along with quantitative, analytical, and problem-solving abilities to join our team. Foreign language skills and geographic flexibility are desired. 
Trading Assistant positions exist in Chicago, New York, Philadelphia and San Francisco. 
See your placement oftice for a brochure and job description. 
FOR IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION, FAX OR MAIL COVER LETTER AND RESUME TO: 
The O'Connor Partnerships Professional Recruitment-Trading 7th tloor 141 W. Jackson Blvd. Chicago, IL 60604 
Fax: 312-554-5047 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
O'CONNOR: CAREER OPTIONS, UNLIMITED FUTURES. 
harassment charges 
an unidentified woman into the 
bullpen just before a game with 
Houston on May 7, 1989 to get 
an autographed baseball. 
Hittelman told the newspaper 
in an interview this week that 
Cone disappeared behind an 
old bathroom in the bullpen for 
a moment and then called her 
over. When she rounded the 
partition with her friend, ac­
cording to the lawsuit, "Cone 
was sitting on a stool, pants 
and underwear below his knees 
and he was masturbating in 
front of the two women." 
The newspaper said the law­
suit states Hittelman called 
Cone a "disgusting animal" and 
immediately left. 
Cone's lawyer, Skip McGuire, 
declined comment on the sex 
allegations. He told the Post he 
had yet to review the legal doc­
uments. 
A Mets lawyer, Cliff Thau, did 
not return phone messages, the 
Post said. 
The Post said that the suit 
also charges that later in the 
1989 season, Cone knocked on 
the door of a Montreal hotel 
room occupied by Hittelman 
and 1\vohie at 3 a.m. to borrow 
a towel and then, after expos­
ing his genitals, jumped into 
bed with them. 
Hittelman said in an 
interview this morning on a 
radio talk show in New York 
that Cone masturbated in the 
hotel room. Hittleman told host 
Howard Stern, whose program 
is known for its sex-oriented 
discussions, that she and 
Twohie stayed at the same 
hotel as the Mets because 
Hittelman was dating 
Fernandez. 
Meanwhile, the three players 
at the center of a rape investi­
gation have missed a deadline 
for providing information to 
police, but lawyers for two of 
the players say that's a surprise 
to them. 
A 31-year-old Manhattan 
woman filed an official com­
plaint with police March 3 al­
leging the three raped her on 
March 30, 1991, in Port St. 
Lucie, Fla., where the team is 
based for spring training. 
The suspects have been iden­
tified by their attorneys as 
pitcher Dwight Gooden and 
outfielders Vince Coleman and 
Daryl Boston. Lawyers for 
Gooden and Boston said they 
hadn't heard of any deadline. 
"I don't understand what 
that's all about," said Chicago 
attorney Steve Zucker, who 
represents Boston. "We have 
told them that we want to co­
operate." 
Zucker said Boston has not 
spoken with investigators. 
Gooden's Tampa attorney, 
Joseph Ficarrotta, said the 
lawyers in the case had cooper­
ated fully with law enforcement 
officials, even providing them 
with names of witnesses to 
check out. 
"There's enough there for 
them to make the right decision 
... and that's not to file the 
charges," Ficarrotta said. 
On Wednesday, police Lt. Scott Bartal said investigators were "prepared to take steps" if the deadline was missed. He said the option of issuing search warrants would be dis­cussed with Assistant State Attorney David Morgan. 
Investigators want to forward their case by Friday to Morgan, who will decide whether to file charges. 
Police said they met with the three lawyers Monday. Investigators wouldn't publicly disclose what they sought but said blood samples had been discussed. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~~-------, 
page 20 The Observer 
SMC tennis to visit Holland 
By NICOLE MCGRATH SMC Sports Editor 
The Belles are taking their 
first road trip to Holland. 
That is they are playing Hope College in Holland, Michigan this Saturday and wishing to extend their season record to 3­0. 
The Flying Dutch will be re­turning six of their lettermen as well as four of last year's starters. They Include Denise Conley, Amy Hilbelink, Michelle Kalasmlnak and Wyma. 
Natalie Kloepfer dismantled Conley 6-0, 6-1 at last year's game. Meanwhile, teammate Thayma Darby took care of Hilbelink 6-4, 7-5. Finally, last year's first singles player Sarah Mayer swept Kalasminak 6-0, 6-0. 
Look for Ellen Mayer to pick up where her sister left off as she goes up against Kalasminak this Saturday. Mayer had a bad day last week against Albion, but regained her usual form by beating her Aquinas opponent last Tuesday. 
"Ellen is right on her game. She should win in straight sets," said Nester about this coming weekend against Hope. 
The sixth singles spot seems to have been well-filled by Andrea Ayers. Last weekend, Ayers brought down Albion op­ponent Kris Carnes 6-2, 4-6, 6­
4. She kept up her stride on 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Number-one singles player Ellen Mayer will lead the Saint Mary's tennis team against Hope College this weekend in Holland, Michigan. 
Tuesday by  defeating Aquinas  According to Ayers, she at- 
foe Michelle Meeusen 6-3, 6-4.  tributes her success to staying  
"Andrea has found her con- patient during her games. "J  
centration and is building more  feel comfortable at sixth singles  
self-confidence,"  remarked  and I hope to play well against  
Coach Nester.  Hope," said Ayers.  

Mihalko, Coyle lead Irish in separate meets 
ByRIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
Athletes from the Notre 
Dame men's track team will 
converge on two separate sites 
this weekend, as the Irish send 
competitors to Tuscaloosa, 
Alabama and Raleigh, North 
Carolina. 
Head coach Joe Plane ex­
pects a high level of competi­
tion at the meets as the Irish 
continue to adjust to the out­
door environment. 
Co-captain Ryan Mihalko hopes to improve on his eighth place finish In the javelin at last week's Florida State Relays. 
"I'd like to increase my throw by 10 to 15 feet," Mihalko said. "Last week was our first outdoor meet of the season and I just need more opportunities to throw." 
Mihalko also noted that these early season meets are an opportunity to see where the Irish squad stands in regard to other teams. 
"Right now, we're trying to 
qualify athletes for the 
ICAAAA's," he said. "In these 
meets, we can see where we're 
at and how far we need to go." 
Competing along with 
Mihalko In Alabama will be 
freshman Brian Headrick and 
sophomore Todd Herman in the 
high jump, and sophomore Jon 
Smerek in the discus. 
Among Irish team members 
running in the Raleigh Relays 
will be all-american John 
Coyle, competing in the 5000 
meters. Like Mihalko, Coyle is 
also looking forward to 
participating on the outdoor 
track. 
"The meet should be very 
competitive, with many east 
coast and ACC schools taking 
part," he commented. 
"Although we are not taking 
enough athletes to compete in 
the team standings, we feel that 

Friday, March 27,1992 
SMC softball opens regular season against Albion 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's softball team opens their regular sea­son as host to Division III rival Albion tomorrow at 1:00pm on the Notre Dame diamond. 
Although very young, the squad proved that they could play with they best of them over spring break by returning from Florida with an impressive 4-3 record. Still, coach Don Cromer realizes that the inexperience could pose a problem early on. "We have some good bats and I expect a lot from them, but it may take a few games to get used to the competition." 
The Belles graduated four last year and have lost senior shortstop and .481 slugger Janet Libbing to an injury and junior pitcher Stephanie Kisscorni. Cromer said that Kisscorni is taking a year off to concentrate on her studies, but will hopefully return next year. Replacing Kisscorni will be freshman Lisa Bright, who has looked very impressive in the pre-season. 
There is, however, one senior on the team, center-fielder Carol Grobner. According to Cromer, "Carol is a perfect role-model who constantly gives 110"/o. She's very team oriented and any coach would be lucky to have her on their team. In fact, the only thing wrong with Carol is that she is a senior." 
Grobner, who is co-captain along with Libbing and sopho­more catcher Jane Murphy, is very optimistic about this sea­son. "We are a young team, but if we come together and elimi­nate the mental errors, we should have a chance at post­season play. Our Florida trip was very encouraging, it gave us some good experience and it is the best we have ever played on a spring break trip." 
ummer 

STORAGE 
RESERVATION I 683-1959 J 
,.. APPROX 2 1/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 .l\1aster Mini Warehouses 
SENIORS IN THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
ANNUAL OUTSTANDING TEACHER AWARD ELECTIONS WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE LOBBY OF: 
HAYES-HEALY, MONDAY, 3/30, 9:30 A.M.-11:30 A.M. HURLEY BUILDING, TUESDAY, 3/31, 9:00 A.M.-11:15 A.M. HAYES-HEALY, WEDNESDAY, 411, 1:00 P.M.-3:30P.M. HURLEY BUILDING, THURSDAY, 4/2, 1:00 P.M.-3:00P.M. 
there could be several high-if not outstanding-individual placings." 
Joining Coyle in North Carolina will be freshman John Cowan, sophomore Mike McWilliams, and senior Patrick Kearns in the 5000 meters; se­nior co-captain Brian Peppard in the 800 meters; and senior Shawn Alexander in the 1500 meters. 
"These meets are the first of the outdoor season for most Irish competitors, Coyle explained. "They begin the qualifying for ICAAAA and NCAA outdoors." 
Pre-Law Society Reception 7:00 P.M., Tuesday March 31, 1992. In Law School Lounge (basement) 
Sponsored by: Women's Legal Forum. Refreshments served. 
Store Your Stuff ! 
(for the summer) 

Friday, March 27,1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing duriiJ:g busine~s hours Sunday through Frid<~-y at the Q})server office on the thi:t:<i floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief. telephOqe number, and the dates the brief is to run. ········· 

•sports 
Writers are needed to cover Saint Mary's Anyone interested should contact Saint ~ary's <SpQ:rts Nicole McGrath at the Observer office or at 284·5415. · · 

•The 
Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon~Fd from 


p.m. and Sat-Sun from 1 p.D1. to 10:30 p.m.::;[;; 
•rrish Heartfights Spring 3 and 6 mUe runs are ........"'"""''' 
April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staff can pick up e __ ,.......,.,. "''' 1 RecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining information, call 239-6100 and ask for Sally;. '"' 
•ND/SMC Synchronized Swim Club will present its annual Spring Show on March 29 at 1:30 p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Everyone is welcome and admission is free. 
.rhe Physical Education Volleyball Champions for Noel O'Sullivan's 1:15 p.m. M undefeated team of Chad Sutcliffe, Ry;a.n·JI•~~.ftelfilllii Seraphin, Mark Hart, and Scott Kabat. 
.rhe Ultimate Club 2 p.m. at the Stephen 4-5. Bring cleats and 
IIWomen's Bo1okt1tor•e 
or Tracy at 283-1093 by 7 
Tyson 
continued from page 24 
get a second chance. She can only try to put Tyson behind and deal with the rest of her life. 
Tyson may have been KOed by this sentence but one girl has been KOed for the rest of her life. 
Reduce· Reuse Recycle 

How did such a beautiful woman end up with the ugliest man on campus?? 

How could you squeeze this muc cheese in one photo? 

Happy Birthday Marc & Kate!! 
Love, Laurie 
$3.5Q 
____,..
1
't:UTT~tYXl~ 
AIIShows 

Scottsdale Mall •  291-4583  Before 6 pm  >teve Martin  
WHITE MEN  fATH{R of the  
AN'T JUMO.lly 4:58, 7:88, 9:50 'Rl  BRID{O.lly 4:45,7:15,9:15  ~  
S•t!Sun 2:00  4:50  7:10  9:50  ~  S•tlsun 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:15  

T()W~ & t()U~TE~" $3.50 
All Shows ----.....
2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090 Belore 6 pm 

WAYNESMILD BASIC 
Dally 5:10, 7:51, 11:01 ~ S•t!Sun 12:51, 2:45, 5:08, 7:50, I 0:0 
'NSTINCT 

VINNY MICHAEL 
JOE PESCI DOUGLAS 
D•lly 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 1m D•lly 4:50, 7:00, 9:50 liil S•t!Sun 2:01, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 S•t!Sun I:51, 4:51, 7:81, 9:50' t!!J 
-----~--------------------------------~-------------------------------------, 
The Observer page 21 
Softball ready for Southern Invite 

By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 
"Goin' South!" 
That's where the Notre Dame softball team (1 0-9) will search for better playing conditions, as they play at the Southern Invitational in Birmingham. 
The Southern tournament features top-notch competition unparalleled on the Irish schedule, except for possibly the Creighton Invitational in mid-April. 
The Irish will first face South Carolina (18-3), the nation's 13th-ranked team. 
"We played against them last year {and lost, 3-1) and they return a number of key play­ers," said Irish coach Brian Boulac. "They are a quality ballclub, a good hitting team." 
Next. Notre Dame plays North Carolina, a team they beat twice last year. The first win, 3-1. came in Houston over spring break and the second, 1-0, at the Southern Invite. 
Both times, the Irish victim­ized sophomore pitching ace Paige Lobby. 
"She's one of the top pitchers in the country," said Boulac. "We're looking forward to meeting her again and hope­fully we'll come away with an­other victory." 
Friday's lineup also includes Georgia Tech, whom the Irish will meet for the first time ever. 
Saturday, the Irish will play Winthrop College. Last season, Winthrop pinned a 2-1 loss on the Irish before they headed back north. 
"The other teams in the tour-
The Observer/Jake Peters Junior third-baseman Debbie Boulac gets ready to scoop another ground ball. The Irish softball team will visit the Southern Invitational 
this weekend. 
nament will probably have some influence on the outcome of the championship," said Boulac, mentioning Southwest Louisiana {currently ranked in the top ten), as well as Wichita State, Furman and Georgia State. 
"The tournament has the top southern teams in the country and other teams that they'd like to play," said Boulac. 
In explaining why his team happened to get an invitation, Boulac said, "During the year, we were recruiting the daugh­ter of one of the people respon­sible for putting on the tour­nament." 
Although Boulac didn't land the recruit, he did land the tournament games on the team's schedule. 
Notre Dame will rely on their strong pitching staff, which should be at full strength after a week's rest. Junior Staci Alford {4-1, 1.18 ERA) and senior Melissa Linn {5-5, 1.40 ERA) have been rock solid, while sophomore Carrie Miller {1-3, 
3.18 ERA) has shown signs of improvement in practice. 
Freshman outfielder Sara Hayes has quickly asserted her­self as an offensive force, easily leading the team with a .371 batting average, along with five doubles, two homers and 12 RBI. 
Big test awaits Irish lacrosse 
No. 19 Hofstra will be a measuring stick for Irish 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team hosts Hofstra Sunday, in a matchup which could finally determine·if the Irish are ready to join the nation's elite. 
Three weeks ago Notre Dame lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan pointed towards his team's matchup against Villanova as an opportunity for his team to show it could compete with the 
••••••••••••••••••••••••• nation's best teams. 
Although the Irish didn't beat the Wildcats. they showed they could be competitive with any team in the nation. The next step for the Irish is to prove 
that they can not only compete, but beat the top caliber teams. 
The 19th ranked Flying
Dutchmen are 2-2 on the sea­son and like the Irish are a team flooded with youth. 
Sophomore Andy Carlson and 

Brian Mayglothling 
classmate Dom DiNardo lead the Hofstra attack with a com­bined sixteen goals and seven assists. They are flanked by experienced senior Joe Berra who has tallied eight goals and three assists from his mid­fielder position. 
The Irish will need big contri­butions from senior attackman Mike Sullivan and midfielder 
The Department of Music presents 
Jl Concert of20tfi Century Music 
GuyVtctor Bordo, conductor featuring music of 
'L[(en 'Taafe Zwificfi, 1-fector o/if£a-Lo6os ana ''The So[aier's 'Ta[e' 6y Stravins/(y 
SUNDAY, MARCH 29 
2:00P.M. 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to {he public 
Brian Mayglothing. The duo has been the strength of the team this season, placing near the top of the scoring column in every game. Additional support could come from sophomore Randy Colley who leads the Irish with 24 points. 
Notre Dame will have to minimize their errors against the Flying Dutchmen, a team which has capitalized on oppo­nents unforced errors this sea­son. 
"We need to value the ball more, not give the ball away as much as we did on the East coast trip," said Mayglothing. "We need to set the tempo of the game. and give our defense a rest. 
If the Irish do control the ball more effectively, they could find success against Hofstra goal­tender Kevin Barry. The New Jersey native has had a difficult time this season, allowing 9.85 goals a game, with a .577 save percentage. 
The Irish defense will have to contain a Hofstra offense which relies on it's quickness to beat opposing defenses. 
"They are small and quick, and rely on feeding the crease a lot on offense," said Sullivan. "That is something we have been pretty successful stopping this season." 
Sullivan also spoke of the ex­perience of Notre Dame de­fender Doug Murray as a plus for the Irish. 
"I think we will be alright on defense. They are a young team, and we have a good se~ nior defender in Doug Murray." \ 

Attentions shoppers. During our incredible spring sale, you can see the best of Britain for the best of prices-just $Z24 * one way, based on round-trip purchase to London. Simply purchase your ticket by March ~1, for travel Monday through Thursday commencing April 1 through June 14, 199Z, and September 1 through September ~o, 199Z. And, if you're looking ahead this summer, you will iind plenty of summer bargain affairs also. Of course, you'll receive the 
complementary headsets, free drinks, classic cuisine, and exceptional service that British Airways is famous for. So call your travel agent or British Airways at 1·8oo-AIRWAYS today. But don't delay. After all, if you're shopping for bargains this spring, wouldn't you rather do it in London? 
• Fare does not Include $18 agricultural, customs and immigration fees, and International departure talL 
BRITISH AIRWAYS 
l11e worldS favourite airUnc.• 7 
page 22 The Observer 
Busy weekend for Irish tennis 
Kansas, Wisconsin and BC visit the Eck Pavillion 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
After 11 days away from competition. the Notre Dame women's tennis team returns to action this weekend against Kansas. Wisconsin and Boston College at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
It has been an up and down season for the Irish, who are looking to improve on their 5-7 mark against some tough com­petition. 
This won't be their first shot at the nation's top teams, how­ever, with matches against the likes of Tennessee, Kentucky and North Carolina under their belts, but it will help the team recognize the progress they have made this season. 
Notre Dame's tough weekend begins this afternoon at 4, when 17th-ranked Kansas visits the Eck for the first meeting ever between the two teams. The Jayhawks boast some of the best individual players in the country, and Irish coach Jay Louderback knows his team will have to be strong at the top 
Five runners travel to Raleigh Relays 
By JOSEF EVANS Sports Writer 
They say there's strength in numbers. and the Notre Dame women's track team is hoping that holds true as they travel to North Carolina this weekend for the Raleigh Relays, the second outdoor meet of the year. 
Running for the Irish will be senior Diana Bradley and freshmen Becky Alfieri, Kala Boulware, and Sarah Riley, who together are entered in both the 4 X 800 meter and 4 X1500 meter relays, along with fellow freshman and cross-country's most valuable runner Eva Flood in the individual 5000 meter race. 
The women are optimistic about their chances, and they are looking forward to run­ning. 
"We've really been working hard....! think we have a good chance to do well," said Boulware. 
It will be the first outdoor meet for all of the Irish, and they are hoping the change of scenery will add to their suc­cess. 
"Everybody seems to do better outside," noted Boulware, who had never run indoors before this season. 
"It shouldn't be much diiTonmt (than what I'm used to)," added Flood .. 
Duke, North Carolina State, and Georgia Tech should provide stiff competition for the women. 
With that in mind, coach Joseph Piane offered guarded optimism about the team's cham:es. 
"(The meet) will give them a chance to test the waters (outside)," he explained. "Hopefully, they can step up to a new level of competition." 
Flood put it simply, "I just want to run well." 

of their lineup if they hope to 
knock off their highly-touted 
opponent. · "Our toughest match will be 
against Kansas," he said. 
"Their top three players are all 
ranked in the top 50, so a key 
for us will be to play well at the 
top." 

Eveline Hamers, ranked 11th in the nation leads the Kansas attack, followed by 24th-ranked Rebecca Jensen and 30th­ranked Nora Koves. Hamers and Jensen also combine to form the nation's 12th-ranked doubles team. 
It doesn't get any easier for the Irish on Saturday when Wisconsin brings it's balanced attack to town. The Badgers finished the 1991 campaign ranked 21st in the nation, de­spite dropping a 6-3 decision to the Irish. 
"Wisconsin will be another big match for us because they're a regional team and a win over them could put us at number two in the region." 
A win won't come easily, however, with Amanda Gregory and Marija Neubauer in the Badger lineup. Not only are they a force in singles competi­tion, but they also combine to form the nation's 20th ranked doubles team. 
"It's not so much individuals with Wisconsin, it's the whole team," Louderback commented. "They're just really deep. Their isn't much difference between their number one and number six players." 
The Irish will return to the courts again on Sunday morn­ing against the weakest of their weekend opponents, Boston College. The Golden Eagles are led by Pam Piorkowski, who is ranked 43rd in singles and .24th in doubles with teammate Jennifer Lane. 
Mental preparation will be a key for the Irish this weekend as they return to action for the first time in almost two weeks. 
"I think the layoff will actually help us," Louderback ex­plained. "We we're in a stretch of the season where we played so many matches that we never had time to practice. We just have to be mentally ready to go out and play three matches." 
Friday, March 27,1992 

The Observer/Jake Peters Melissa Harris and the rest of the Notre Dame women's tennis team will face Kansas, Wisconsin and Boston College this weekend. 
ust 


one v.-r.· m<;ed on ro11~d-td[1 purchJsc: ro Lcmdvn. 
TERMS U CONDmONS: Fare Basio VOXABES. Fare required round trip Pllfthue. AppUcable for travel commencln& 4-1-412 throu&h t.-11-412 and 9-1-412 throu&Ja 9-:JG-9% only. Travel t.-15-412 throup 8-:11-412 oUghtly higher. Travel must be completed by 11)o:Jo-c)Z, Minimum stay: 7 dayo 1Maximum stay: :JO days or rerum by 11)o:Jo-c)Z, whichever occ:uro first. Travel permitted Monday throu&Ja Thurlday, travel permitted other dayo of the week at additional charge. Travel permitted between Detroit and London on British Alrwayo oerviceo only. Stop oven are permitted. Reservation• and ticket lsoue muot 
be completed at least 14 days prior to departure or before .J.-].1"'92, "Whichever oec:ura Brat. Outbound reservation• may not be changed, return 
reaervatlons may be changed for a fee of SIOO~ Fare Ia non·refundable once Ucketa are laaued. Fare may be combined with preseason sale on B~A. land packagea. Unleu apec:ilically permitted In written promotional material luued by Britioh Alrwaya, thio promotion may not be combined with any other fare or special promotional oHer, paat, preaent, or lutu.re. Frequent n:yer mileaae aW'arda may not be redeemed ln c:onjunc:tlon with thb proJII'am. Children, Privileged Traveler and other dlocounts not permitted. This fare may not be available on all Dl&hts, and may not be available when you eaU. Farei are oullject to chan&e without notice and are n~bject to Government Approval.. 

~-----­
Today 
-... 
Friday, March 27, 1992 page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Wf.lL, \1-11\TS 1\\E I'ROSLEM. 
I ~T \(\'lOW 1-\0'tl 1\l S\>£\l 
IT Al-lO It-\ KO\ AllOW£\) 
10 SA'{ 1\. ,.--_..... 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
l 
When seeing-eye dogs dream 
MENU 

Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
FrenchBread Philly Sandwich Cheese Pizza Cheese Ravioli Baked Pollack California Quiche Sesame B I u e b e r r y Pancakes JumboFish Sandwich 
~----------~~~~----------~ 

Friday 

4 p.m. Panel Discussion: "The Impact of the Press on the Gulf War." Auditorium, Hesburgh library. 
-------------, 


JUNGLE 


Friday, March 28 Saturday, March 29 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Cushing Hall Auditorium Admission is $2 
BILL WATTERSON 

20 Silkworm 21 Something of the 
wrong time 24 One who has title 26 Wrath 27 Household 29 Giant of mythology 33 Make happy 34 That is-... 35 Sports shout 37 Pinball machine 
term 38 Wretched hut 39 Restaurant item 40 "My Gal -" 41 Garment worker 42 "The -Little 
Foys" 43 Damascus denizens 45 Animal handlers 
CAMPUS Friday 
7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Cape Fear." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 
8 p.m. Musical: "Nunsense." O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC. 
Sunday 
7:15 p.m. Faculty organ recital, Professor Craig Cramer. Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Levin 62 North Pole 
workers 63 Movie King 64 Kennedy and 
Williams 65 Relative 
DOWN 

1 "Road" comedian 2 Declare 3 With reason 4 Spartan letter 5 Mixture 6 Of the cheekbone 7-plaisir8 Foolhardy 9 -worker 
10 Indonesian island 31 -medicine 
32 More sensible 
34 -crier 
36 Warlike people 
38 BTU (2 wds . ) 
39 Note 
41 Ho-hum 
42 Crusader's enemy 
44 TV-show popularity 
45 Siamese (var.) 
47 Band section 
48 Police informer (var.) 49 Bread spread 50 Weather forecast 51 Oliver Twist's word 52 Nail 
54 Mr. Guinness 55 Being: Lat. 59 Mr. Wallach 

.... 
C<NLO '(0\J JlJSI RAm.E 
5££. It I EVER ~01£ OFF f>U_ lHc S'tltAR WOODS 
toR ~EIR T/>.Y. l'C='JIE'5. ~QIJ KNOW, ANO I'lL STOP '{OIJ WH'C:\11 ... 1-\EllO ?."' 

6 \
I t~~ ~~ 
I 

~---------------~ 
SPIN JOHN MONKS 
ACROSS 

1 Palace wives 
6-Chagall 10 One of the t·1uppets 14 Egg-shaped 15 Grandparenta1 16 Indian of Oklahoma 46 Ten-percenter 
(abbr.) 47 The Red ­48 Early English 

kingdom 53 Scottish digit 56 Jai ­57 Ibsen heroine 11 Toilet case 
12 Sacks 
13 Abound 
22 Signifying maiden name 
23 Paris airport 
25 Unit of power 
27 East coast team 

17 Flower part 58 Does a room job 28 Inventor Howe 60 Equine constraint 29 Inlets 19 Mr. Goldberg 61 Gershwin and 30 River in Flanders
lll~lllrllill~'~P'';!!iii~;;;;ll .--------------------. 18 -majesty 

----~-­

... ­
Sports 
page 24 Friday, March 27,1992 
.. 
NICOLE 

Men's tennis invited to Blue-Gray Classic 
MCGRATH 

By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
And now a word from... 

Oh, how times have
1---------......;;=.....,___.....,_--i changed.
Tyson's crime more serious than his penalty 
Tyson pulled a dangerous jab, couldn't get away with it and is down for the count. Final score Is David-1 Goliath-0. 
"Something needs to be done about the 
attitude you displayed here," said Superior Court Judge Patricia Gifford when nailing Tyson yesterday. Gifford sentenced him to six years for one count of rape. He was lined $10,000 on each count for a grand total of $30,000-the maximum line. Rape is one of the most unreported crimes in the country. Only 1 out of 10 people will press charges. These people sometimes blame themselves for the attack. It is an attack. Rape is not sex. Rape is a tool used to degrade, control or 
overpower a person. In this case, an 18­year-old beauty pageant contestant was used as an outlet for Mr.Tyson's desire to overpower. "She was like a zombie, like something had taken her soul away," said a fellow beauty pageant contestant when she saw her friend the morning after. All of us at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame know the facts about rape and this trial may seem distant to us "well-edu­
cated" types. Think again. The fact is that 1 out of 6 women in 
college will be raped. For all the education in the world, rape occurs on the SMC and ND campuses. 
Look at your group of friends right now ... I would not be suprised if all of us knew someone who had been raped or date raped. 
Rape goes across the boards. The rapist can be a student or a celebrity. In this case, a famous boxing star -"Goliath"­thought his powerful body could destroy a seemingly weak person -"David". Well, Goliath may have gotten David's soul but he is going to pay heavy for it. 
The sad truth is that no matter what sentence Tyson, or any rapist receives, nobody can give a person their self-worth back. 
If you haven't noticed, this is Sexual Assault Awareness Week at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. All week there have been lectures and articles. Most Important have been the survivor's letters that have run In the Observer. 
Please take note that these people are survivors and not victims. 
Mike Tyson will now stand as the court's example that no matter who you are, if you commit a crime, you damn well better be ready to pay. 
Tyson will be 31-years-old when he is allowed out of jail. He must then go through probation and psychotherapy for a few years. Tyson will have time for a "come-back" show in Vegas after he serves his term. Oh joy. 
But one beauty pagaent girl does not 
see TYSON/page 21 
:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~ 
INSIDE SPORTS 

r:-;::--:---:----:-:-----:--:---:---. hitting .295 with 21 RBis. 
• 
Busy weekend for women's tennis Johnathen Smith is hitting a vicious 

see page 22 


• 
Softball heads south see page 21 

• 
Tyson sentenced to six years In 



prison see page 18 
• Southeast and Midwest NCAA 
Regional previews see page 17 

.376 with 21 RBis, a team-leading 10 doubles and four homeruns. In addition, Gino DiMare (.346, 24 runs, 10 RBis) is lethal on the basepaths, having stolen 13 bases in 13 attempts. Dave Berg (.342-, 15 RBis) has started every game he has ap­peared in. 
The Irish are led by their hot-hitting seniors including Craig Counsell (.345, 12 RBis, 15 stolen bases) who has hit safely in the 11 of the last 12 games, Cory Mee (.308, 8 RBis, 3 doubles), and Joe Binkiewicz {.276, 11 RBis, 3 HRs). Juniors Eric Danapilis (.320, 15 RBis) and Pat 
see IRISH/page 19 

Just a few years ago the 
Notre Dame men's tennis team was not good enough to garner an invitation to the 
prestigious Blue-Gray National Classic in Montgomery, Ala. 
This weekend the Irish head into the Classic as the fifth-ranked team in the 
nation, and they are one of the favorites to take the title. 
The tournament field is loaded with national power­houses, however, including five top-10 and 12 top-25 teams. Second-ranked TCU is the first seed, and Mississippi State (8th), Harvard (11th), and North 
Carolina (13th) are all potential Irish pitfalls. In the first round, Notre 
Dame (13-2) is slated to take on last year's Big Eight champ, Oklahoma State. A senior-dominated squad with a strong top four, the Cowboys could possibly pose some problems for the Irish. 
"They have three seniors at 
Travel weary Irish hit the road to face number two Miami 
By JENNY MARTEN Associate Sports Editor 
The 16th-ranked Notre Dame baseball team (10-5) is headed to the University of Miami {22-4) for its final road trip before the home opener this Thursday. The season-starting road trip has involved 15 games and almost 12,000 miles of travel. 
The trip to Miami will not be a vacation as the Hurricanes, ranked second nationally, await the first meeting between the two teams since 1989. In the last meeting, Notre Dame squeaked out a 4-2 win against All-American pitcher Joe Grabe and the Irish currently hold a three game winning streak against the 'Canes dating back to 1988 when Notre Dame swept two games from Miami in an October series. 
This year's team is full of talented baseball players, many of whom have already been offered hefty pro contracts. 
"Miami has a tremendously talented team," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "They have some heavyweights." 
The heavyweights include pitcher 
Kenny Henderson who turned down nearly a million dollars to play college ball and pitcher Jose Prado and Charles Johnson both turned down many thousands of dollars. Henderson (6-1) has a 2.08 ERA and 4 7 strikeouts. Prado (2-1) is off to a u n ch a racte ris tic start with a 
5.33 ERA. Johnson has started every game but one for the Hurricanes and is the top of their lineup who have all been playing in those spots for a few years," said Irish coach Bob Bayliss. "They're very seasoned, they're aggressive, and they play good doubles. That makes it a scary first-round match up." 
If they get past OSU, the Irish have a date with either 16th-ranked Miami or the 15th-ranked Florida Gators looming on the horizon. They will round out the grueling competition by playing one more match after that, possibly against a team they beat here last year, eighth-ranked Mississippi State. Whomever the opponent, the Irish have a challenging road ahead of them. 
"We're looking at playing, on consecutive days, probably three ·top-20 teams," noted Bayliss. 
As they have all year, the Irish will look to senior captain Dave Dilucia, the third-ranked collegiate tennis player in the nation, to lead them to victory. Dilucia heads into this weekend's action with a still-unblem-
Flying to New York 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Senior Daimon Sweet soars for a layup in Wednesday's win over Manhattan. The Irish are headed to New York this weekend for the NIT Final Four. 
~------------------------------------------------~ 

Chuck Coleman 
ished record, and he is hoping to duplicate last year's performance when he captured tournament most valuable player honors after posting a 3-0 record. He also will team with junior Chuck Coleman to produce the nation's seventh-ranked doubles team. 
"He's always a favorite and it's a big burden to carry," said Bayliss, "But he's done it all year. He's been a terrific captain-on and off the court." 
In addition to Dilucia, the Irish boast two other top-1 00 ranked singles players in ju­niors Andy Zurcher (44th) and Coleman (92nd). 
Rounding out the lineup will be a group of juniors, Will Forsyth at fourth singles, Mark Schmidt at firth, and either Ron Rosas, Tom North, or Chris Wojtalik at sixth. The year-long battle for the sixth spot has been intrigu­ing, as all three have seen ac­tion and are very capable. 
In doubles, the Irish will point to the combo of Dilucia and Coleman, the strong Forsyth and Zurcher team, and the undefeated tandem of Schmidt and Wojtalik. 
"Schmidt and Wojtalik have 
been  a  strong  point  at  
doubles  all  year,"  noted  
Bayliss.  

Possibly the biggest problem facing the Irish this year has been quite an enviable one. 
"We just have too many good players." says Bayliss. "It's not like basketball where I can just put them in for a quarter, I have to make a decision and go with it." 
If that is the extent of the Irish's concerns right now, one need not worry about the outcome this weekend in Montgomery. 








