The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 5 FRIDAY, AUGUST 28, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Louisianians move back, assess harm 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -As Louisianians made their way back to hurricane-razed coastal neighborhoods Thursday, offi­cials expressed relief that de­struction wasn't worse and ap­pealed for medical help at still­
• Damage estimates I page 5 
crowded shelters. "We've been spared a major, major disaster," Gov. Edwin Edwards said during a heli­copter tour. Storm Andrew, still drenching Dixie as it weakened to a tropical depression, was blamed for one final affront: a pipeline at an offshore natural gas rig apparently damaged by the hurricane caught fire. No pollution was reported and the fire was expected to burn itself out, authorities said. Officials throughout southern Louisiana began compiling damage estimates, but said no numbers would be available at least until Friday. Still, esti­mates likely will be measured in millions of dollars, rather than the billions of more densely populated Florida. "All my things! All my things, my furniture," Linda Henson wept in Bayou Vista, west of Morgan City. Under cloudless skies and steamy heat, a steady stream of cars, slowed by sightseers, re-
see STORM I page 5 

The Observer I marguerite Schropp 
Divine Light 
Scenes from the lives of various saints are portrayed through the many stained glass windows located in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
CAUSA aiding storm victims 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students are joining the relief effort to help the quarter of a million people left homeless by the severe destruction of Hurricane Andrew which ripped through southern Florida early last Monday. 
The Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA), which is made up of mostly Cuban Americans from the Miami area, and Tyler Farmer, the student senator from district one, have arranged the effort to provide water, clothing, and financial aid for the Hurricane victims. 
"This natural disaster is of great urgency to the entire country. Considering the Catholic nature of our University we do not have a choice, we are obligated as Catholics to help out," said CAUSA President Heriberto Lopez Alberola. 
"The situation in Miami is an enormous disaster with 250,000 people out of homes. We are here on our cozy university where our peers and parents can support us so we are obligated to do something," said Farmer. 
CAUSA has solicited the donation of 4,600 gallons of water from the Abso Pure company of Plymouth, Michigan and of a big rig that will be used to transport the water to Florida from the Genesi Painting Company, said Farmer. 
Booths are also set up in front of North and South Dining Halls today to collect donations of money and t-shirts for the hurricane victims. Over the next few weeks CAUSA hopes to meet its goal of collecting $10,000 for those left needy by the hurricane, said Farmer. 
"We can easily collect the money if each student donates just one dollar, but we hope that people will give more than that. We see the undergrads as the greatest force at Notre Dame," said Farmer. 
Farmer and Alberola will drive the big rig and donations to the Miami area late this evening. The donations will be taken to the Archdiocese of Miami and distributed to the needy from there. 

U.S. establishes no-fly zones; Iraq vows to resist 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -Iraq vowed Thursday to resist the U.S.-led allies as they clamped a "no-fly zone" on southern Iraq to protect rebellious Shiite Muslims fighting against Sad­dam Hussein's army. 
Beginning Thursday, Iraqi planes and helicopters were prohibited from flying below the 32nd parallel. The government said the aerial umbrella was an aggressive act intended to partition Iraq along sectarian and ethnic lines. 
One official suggested Bagh­dad might respond by halting its compliance with U.N. reso­lutions that ended the Persian Gulf War last year. 
Other statements suggested 
Saddam might order his forces, still formidable despite last year's war, to take action against U.S. aircraft seeking to protect the outgunned and out­numbered Shiite rebels. Or he might unleash a ground army against the Shiites in the south­ern marshlands. 
U.S. officials say Saddam has withdrawn his estimated 170 to 200 combat aircraft and some of his helicopter gunships from southern bases. 
But he continues to keep a sizeable army in the region ­at least 50,000 troops backed by tanks and heavy artillery. 
One senior Iraqi official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, suggested Iraq might retaliate against the ban by refusing to allow U.N. in­spection teams into Iraq to oversee destruction of its weapons of mass destruction. 
The "no-fly zone" was im­posed in accordance with U.N. Security Council Resolution 688, which calls for protecting Iraq's ·population against Saddam's minority Sunni Muslim­
dominated government. 
The Shiites, who make up 55 
percent of Iraq's population, 
staged an uprising after the 
Gulf War. Iraqi forces quickly 
crushed the rebellion, but Shiite 
resistance has sputtered on. 
The ruling Revolutionary 
Command Council labeled the ban "aggressive, illegal and un­just." 
"We maintain our right to deal with this aggressive deci­sion in due time and with the appropriate methods," said a statement by an unnamed spokesman read over state ra­dio. 
The statement appealed to Iraq's 17 million people to resist the "vicious Zionist-imperialist enemy." 
Sword-wielding demonstra­tors in downtown Baghdad shouted "Down with Bush! ·Down with Imperialism!" dur­ing a morning protest march several hours before the ban took effect. 
Demonstrators were bused to the affluent Mansour district, where they gathered outside the International Fair building. One banner said in English: "We will fight back with or without blood." 
The Tehran-based Supreme Assembly for the Islamic Revo­lution, a coalition of Shiite Mus­lim opposition factions, claimed Iraqi troops had already begun a military campaign in the south, where about 10 million people live. 
It said in a statement from Iran that troops were rounding up dozens of anti-government suspects. The claim could not be immediately verified. 
Saint Mary's inlirmary hours cut; now are in line with other colleges' 
By AMY GREENWOOD Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Saint Mary's Health Cen­ter will cut back its hours be­ginning this week. 
Instead of its previous 24­hour service, the Health Center will now be open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. Saturday. 
According to Gloria Chelminiak, director of Health Services, Saint Mary's reduced the Health Center hours in re­sponse to a survey of health services at several other col­leges. 
"Very few schools remain open 24 hours a day," said Chelminiak. "With our enroll­ment down, we see few stu­dents who need medical care after 5 p.m." 
Saint Mary's President William Hickey said he feels the college will still adequately ac­commodate student health needs. He said, "Despite the reduction in Health Service hours, we have extended clinic hours to accommodate even more students at a reduced schedule." 
Physicians will now be avail­able by appointment only. Ap­pointments may be made for Mondays and Tuesdays from 12 to 2 p.m., Wednesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 to 2:30 p.m., and Fridays from 2 to 4 
p.m.. The Health Center will also hold its weekly gynecologi­cal clinic Wednesdays from 9 
a.m. to 11 a.m. 
For those students who do need emergency medical care after hours, all security per­sonnel, residence directors, and resident assistants have received CPR and first aid training so they can respond to an emergency situation. Chelminiak has also provided each resident assistant with a book addressing the health needs of college students. 
In a non-emergency situa­
see INFIRMARY/ page 8 
NEW SAINT MARY'S HEALTH SERVICE HOURS Monday-Friday 9:00-5:00 Saturday ! 10:00-4:00 
I l 
PHYSICIANS CLU IC (By ljppointment only} 
I 
Monday and Tue1 day l 12:00-2:00 Wedr esday and Thursday ~~:30 Fridf.!i ~:00 GVNELOGICAL CL NIC (BYI appointment only) Wednesday 9:00-11 :00 SOUTH BEND Cllfl IC HOURS Monday-Friday 5:30-8:00 Saturday 9:00-42:00 
f 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Making life meaningful at Notre Dame 
"Everything meaningful in life is distinguished by a certain transcendence of human existence-beyond the limits of 'self care'­toward other people, toward society, toward 

the world . . . Only by looking outward, by Steven Zavestoski caring for things that, in Associate News Editor terms of pure survival, ________ you needn't bother with at all ... and by throwing yourself over and over again into the tumult of the world, with the intention of making your voice count-only thus will you really become a person." 
More than likely, when Vaclav Havel made this statement, he was not speaking with Notre Dame students in mind. Yet, in as much as this statement can be applied to all of humanity, it seems most relevant to Notre Dame students. 
Not only do the majority of us come from stable, middle class backgrounds with financial security and an inherent selfishness that was probably inherited or learned from our ancestors who toiled entire lifetimes just to scratch out an existence (and subsequently became protective of their newly acquired wealth), but we also have the privilege of no longer concerning ourselves with mere sur­vival-that has been provided for us. As a re­sult, we struggle to make our lives meaningful. 
For the Notre Dame student, beer drinking, party going and most of all, agonizing through classes that must be endured if one wants to earn six figures, are all concerns in some way related to "self-care," as Havel says, and to making life meaningful, as I refer to it. 
In no way do any of these activities transcend human existence. In fact, they ground themselves in human existence. What, after all, could be a greater manifestation of human existence than the longing for worldly human experiences, i.e. drunkenness, more drunkenness and material possessions to fill the sober void between stints of drunkenness? 
We need to make our lives meaningful by caring for the illiterate adult, the social condi­tions in Somalia and the hole in the ozone. 
Each of these cases is exactly that to which Havel is referring when he says we should care "for things that, in terms of pure survival, you needn't bother with at all." While standing up for the looked-over student, the exploited worker or the exploited land, we can throw ourselves "over and over again into the· tumult of the world." 
Once in a while we need to let go of ourselves, giving up all of the preconceptions we might have oflife as we know it. We must give up what we hold to be true in order to actually test life, stretching it to its furthest reaches and then letting go to see if it will snap back, or bend and fall limp. Then we will have bestowed our lives with meaning. 
And, in the end, if we ceaselessly toss our­selves into the tumult, transcending human experience, we will make our voices heard much more loudly than at any party, or on any board of directors. And most importantly, "only thus will you really become a person." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff:  
Production: Susan Marx Whitney Sheets Jeanne Blasi News: Sandy Wiegand Pancho Lozano  Graphics: Brendan Regan Etc.: Jan Chrissy Prask Systems: Jason Williams  
Sports: George Dohrmann  Viewpoint: Jeanne Blasi  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer 
Pressure 
H L 
~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
INDIANA Doctor accused in patient's death 
INDIANAPOLIS -A Michigan City doctor ac­cused of professional and criminal misconduct gave a dose of morphine to a heart attack victim only after he had died, the doctor's attorney argued Thursday. That dosage didn't kill the man, but only stopped involuntary respiration that had begun after he had been declared dead, the attorney for Dr. Marilyn Dargis told the Indiana Medical Licensing Board. Attorney Robert Hammerle of Indianapolis also said Dargis flatly denies allegations by a paramedic and nurses that Dargis stuffed cotton gauze into a breathing tube inserted into 66-year-old Albert J. O'Neil of Long Beach in the emergency room of St. Anthony Hospital in Michigan City on Nov. 14, 1990. 
CAMPUS 
Gonzalez win-s Engineering Award 
NOTRE DAME-Jose Gonzalez, retired chief engineer and administrator of the Laredo-Webb County Health Department in Texas, has received a 1992 honor award from Notre Dame's College of Engineering. Gonzalez, a 1950 ND graduate, was selected for "his distinguished 


OF INTEREST 
Any off-campus students interested in playing football, the first practice will be Monday at 5 p.m. at Stepan Field. Any questions call Keith at 273-2514. 
Activities night is Tuesday from 7-10 p.m., at Gate 3 of the J.A.C.C. All clubs registered for Activities night must sign in by 6:30 p.m. or risk losing your spot. For questions call Jennifer Blanchet at 283­4975 or 283-2086. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING August 27 
VOLUME IN SHARES  NYSEINDEX  
+0.13 to 226.47  
219,269,480  S&P COMPOSITE  
413.53 +0.02  
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS  
3,254.64  +7.83  
GOLD  
+.90 to $339.20  
SILVER  
+$.035 to $3.705  

Friday, August 28, 1992 
FORECAST: 
Decreasing cloudiness and cool. Lows in the lower 50's. Mostly sunny and warmer Saturday. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Achorage  57  48  
Athens  75  54  
Atlanta  86  71  
Bogota  62  44  
Boston  86  71  
Cairo  95  73  
Chicago  63  58  
Cleveland  84  68  
Dallas  84  69  
Detroit  71  62  
Indianapolis  75  67  
Jerusalem  86  64  
London  68  59  
Los Angeles  90  68  
Madrid  93  68  
Minneapolis  70  52  
Moscow  66  55  
Nashville  80  72  
New York  88  72  
Paris  81  66  
Philadelphia  90  72  
Rome  88  84  
Seattle  78  59  
South Bend  88  53  
Tokyo  88  77  
Washington, D.C.  91  73  

achievements in engineering, public health and service," said Anthony Michel, dean of the college. Active on behalf of the migrant farmworkers in the Southwest, Gonzalez obtained the first migrant worker health care grant in the nation and the first Blue Cross/Blue Shield program for migrants. In 1962 he was responsible for a three-day program which prevented a polio outbreak by inoculating 93 percent of Laredo-Webb County's population and 10,000 residents of Nuevo Laredo, Texas. 
Castellino to chair NIH study section 
NOTRE DAME-Francis Castellino, dean of the Notre Dame College of Science and Kleiderer-Pezold profes­sor of biochemistry, has been appointed chairman of the hematology study section in the division of research grants of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)'s Department of Health and Human Services. Castellino has conducted extensive research on the mechanism by which the human body forms and dissolves blood clots. His research major support from the NIH, which in 197 4 gave him a research career development award. Castellino has also won a prestigious Dreyfus Teacher Scholar Grant to further his investigations into the basic enzyme chemistry of blood. 
Van training seminars will be held for those stu­dents interested in requesting use of CSC vans. They will be held at 5 p.m. on Sept. 8 & 9, Oct. 6 & 7, and Nov. 16 & 17 in Room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns. Completion of the driver training session on one of these dates is mandatory for any student wishing to drive a esc van. 
' 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
In 1910: Russia declared Montenegro an independent kingdom under Nicholas II. In 1941: FOR created a seven member Supply Priorities and Allocations Board to speed arms to Allies. 
In 1970: Palistinian National Council rejected U.S. Peace Plan for Mideast. In 1982: In Spain, Greenpeace boats blocked the dumping of atomic waste. Five years ago: Jerry Whitworth was sentenced to 365 years in jail for his part in a Soviet spy network. 
t-nday, August 2~. 1 992 1ne uoserver 
U.N. adds more SMCbegins escort
troops in Bosnia . LONDON (AP) -The United expanded role for U.N. forces in sefVIce 
Nations announced Thursday it was sending more troops to safeguard aid convoys in Bosnia, and European defense officials stepped up pressure on Serbia with calls for a blockade to enforce sanctions. 
In response, a Serb leader at­tending a conference on the Bosnian crisis said he was pre­pared to open all prison camps and surrender one-fifth of the territory captured by his forces. 
British Prime Minister John Major said all warring parties had agreed to attend further talks at a permanent confer­ence beginning next week in Geneva, Switzerland. He said he was heartened by the Serbs' willingness to yield territory. 
"We have agreed the essential steps needed to wind down the conflict," Major told reporters as the two-day conference ended. "All of them are fraught with pitfalls. All of them require the involvement and pressure of the international community." 
Muslim leaders have agreed to return to negotiations with the Serbs, a Slovenian official said. The Muslim-led govern­ment of President Alija Izetbe­govic had for months refused any contacts with the Serbs. 
The warring parties agreed to a declaration that calls for an Bosnia and commits them to disavow violence and respect human rights. 
But the statement will not be enforced by military interven­tion, other than an added number of troops safeguarding aid convoys. 
Marrack Goulding, the U.N. undersecretary for peace mis­sions, said Wednesday he wanted to the U.N. force in Bosnia to grow from 1,600 to 8,000. The reinforcment must be approved by the U.N. Secu­rity Council. 
European mediation efforts have produced a growing record of broken promises dur­ing Bosnia's 5 1/2-month war, in which more than 8,000 people have died and 1.2 mil­lion have been forced from their homes. 
On Thursday, despite a rela­tive lull in fighting, shells that landed in a Sarajevo bread line killed three people and wounded 29. 
"The parties in the conflict still have to demonstrate their determination to follow through with the actions that obviously will speak louder than any words coming out of here," said Barbara McDougall, Canada's secretary of state for external affairs. 
ophomore transfer student David Angelic locks his bike outside o Morrissey Manor. New bike racks were installed over the summer to onvenience and security. 
By AMY BENNETT SMC Assistant Editor 
Beginning Monday, Saint Mary's students will participate in the escort service from the Angela Athletic Facility parking lot to the dorms, according to Richard Chlebeck, security di­rector. 
In previous years, the escort vehicles were driven by Notre Dame students or off-campus employees. 
"So many Saint Mary's stu­dents are eligible for work­study that we saw the opportu­nity to make these jobs avail­able to our students rather than off-campus employees," Chlebeck said. 
Students can call security from the parking lot to be escorted to their dorms after dark, said Chlebeck. The escort cars are in contact with security on a radio. 
Security made over 14,000 escort trips last year. 
New lights and security phones installed during student government's "Safewalk• pro ject last year are also security improvements on campus, said Chlebeck. 


Memorial scholarship is
Futons! Futons! 
established at Saint Mary's 
Twin Set 169.00 
Special to The Observer Canaan, Conn. 
Mattress only 89.00 
A scholarship fund has been The scholarship fund, valued
Town & Country Shopping Center 
established at Saint Mary's Col­at $50,000, will make its first
2344 Miracle Lane 
Frame only 89.00 
lege in memory of Janice Fahey award in 1993. Selection will be 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Cavanaugh, a 1973 Saint Mary's based on academic achieve­graduate who died of leukemia ment, integrity, high moral last January. character and qualities of lead­ership, as well as financial 

The Janice Fahey Cavanaugh need. Endowed Scholarship Fund, which was established by the The fund will help other Joseph Fahey, Jr., family of women from Stamford to "enjoy Stamford, Conn., will assist the quality Christian education qualified students from Trinity and warm person&! relations Catholic High School in Stam­that Janice enjoyed so much ford in attending Saint Mary's. during her college years," said Secondary preference for the Saint Mary's President William scholarships will be given to Hickey. "We are grateful for
Waterbeds start at $149.00 
~ 
applicants from other schools in and honored by the Fahey
Free delivery with this ad 
Stamford, and then to students family's generosity and that of from Greenwich, Darien or New their friends." 
Fast • Hot • Perfect 

logether'l we can change things.
271~1177 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our~ rates may save you money.
Serving Notre Dame, St. 
Oill fur aqoote 9-5, 289-1993. Office near camiXJs. 
Mary's & South Bend area 
SURVEY RESEARCH TECHNICIANS 
Aexible schedules available for 'The best and brightest." Able to work 4PM . 10PM or-.5:30 PM· 10:.30 PM during the 
---7 L---, r ---7 L---, ITA1"ENiGHfsP'EciALI
1-14 arge 1 1 2-14 arge 1 1 9p.m.-close 1 
week and EITHER 9AM • 3PM or 3:30. 9:30P.M on Saturday OR llAM • SPM or 5:30PM to 9:30 PM on Sunday to do
1 Topping I I 1 Topping I I 1-14" Large I HOURS 
mrvey research in~iewing. codin( and data entry in our growing South Bend
.zza I I p· I I 1 Topping I M-Th -ll:OOam -1:00am 
Reoearch Operations Cenller. Excellen
Pl 
c:ompensation and working conditions. 
I I lZZa I I Pizza I Fri-Sat -11:OOam -3:00am 
PC experience daired. TyPing required. 
Send resume or letter of interest to:
$1095
$6
95 +Tax I I +Tax I I $595 . I Sun-Noon-1:00am 
Marker Strategies, 108 N. Main, Suire 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or call 219­
.a.11 .a_11 .._I 
233-3454 for appointment.
Add1tmnal Toppmgs 95rt each Additional Toppings .95¢ each Additional Toppings .95rt each Not Vahd Wtth Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J I Not Valid With Any Other Coupon .J 
ALSO IDRING WEEKENDS ONLY 
-------Iiiii-------liill------­
·~POr ~(· ·.·· ...... < ,... <. • ' 
FUN IN THE SUN!!! 
BEACH PARTY on STEPAN COURTS 
GET A TAN 
WHILE YOU STILL CAN! 

SATURDAY, AUGUST 29th 
1:00-5:00PM 

VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT SIGNUPS (6 person teams): OUTSIDE WVFI OFFICE (210 LaFORTUNE) 
Sponsored By: Student Activities, Student Union Board, WVFI, Classes of 1993, 1994, and 1995 



lllt:tUU:St:tiVt:tl
Friday, August 28, 1992 page 5 
Andrew may be costliest natural disaster recorded 
TOURNEY 
TEAMS SIGN UP IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 3 & 6 PERSON TEAMS . 
CANOEING PADDLE BOATS KAYAKING CLINIC SAILING ROWING DEMONSTRATION SWIMMING 
SPONSORED BY RECSPORTS 
MIAMI {AP) -Hurricane Andrew caused $6 billion worth of damage in Florida. Or it caused $20 billion worth of damage -depending on who's talking. 
It may be weeks before anyone really knows, but it appears that Andrew will be recorded as the most expensive natural disaster in U.S. history. And the damage in Louisiana hasn't even been added in yet. 
Kate Hale, director of Dade County emergency operations, estimated the storm caused $15 billion to $20 billion in damages. The estimate was based on several factors. 
The overall value of insured property in the county has been estimated at $250 billion, and 10 percent of that destroyed is "a conservative fig­ure," considering that almost "half of the county" was ravaged by Andrew, Hale said. 
Federal emergency officials earlier estimated the disaster caused $6 billion to $10 billion in damage, although they, like Hale, stressed that their estimate was preliminary. 
The most expensive natural disaster before 
The Observer/Maureen Long 
Looking good 
Anthony Yahja recieves a new look from Susi Snyder at the hair salon in the basement of LaFortune. 
Andrew was Hurricane Hugo in 1989. It caused an estimated $5.9 billion damage in South Carolina, plus another $1 billion damage in North Carolina, for a U.S. total of $6.9 billion. The earthquake in San Francisco, also in 1989, was estimated to have caused $5.9 billion in damage. 
The Hurricane Andrew figure also was based on reports from building inspectors, sewer in­spectors, Florida Power & Light workers, fire rescue crews and police officers, said Jackie Me­nendez, a spokeswoman for emergency operations. 
The figure accounts for 63,000 homes destroyed, as well as countless commercial buildings and much of Homestead Air Force Base, she said. 
Although estimates from th.e Federal Emergency Management Agency had been lower than those by local officials, Grant Peterson, associate director of the agency, said Thursday that he would not dispute estimates from Dade 
County officials. 

Bush sends federal troops to aid Florida 
FINDLAY, Ohio {AP) President Bush on Thursday ordered federal troops to provide "comprehensive assistance" to hurricane­ravaged southern Florida. "It will be a major effort," the president said. 
Bush said federal troops were being mobilized immediately. 
He said new reports show that "the damage is far more widespread than even we had feared." 
"We've directed the Department of Defense to provide comprehensive assistance to the affected area, including mobile tents, food, water, field kitchens and also directed them to supply whatever transportation is necessary," Bush said. He said the assistance would include air-traffic assistance and helicopters. 
LOUISIANA 
Baton Rouge: Power was knocked out at the state Capitol and offices were running on emergency generators. 
Hurricane 
continued from page 1 
turned to the c.oastal towns where Andrew's eye and 160­mph wind gusts came ashore Wednesday. 
The cleanup began with chain saws and portable generators ringing out. A tow truck righted a toppled trailer and National Guard troops with Humvees and M-16 rifles took up posts. Store owners put up plastic sheets over shattered windows and swept up broken glass with shovels. 
Everyone, it seemed, waited for insurance adjusters. 
Communications were diffi­cult. Local radio stations were out, and newspapers in Franklin and Morgan City haven't been able to publish since Monday. 
Knee-deep water receded quickly, leaving only scattered pools lying about. Stores and restaurants tried to open; how­ever, most still lacked electric­ity. A few resourceful Cajuns cooked on barbecue grills and portable gas stoves and sipped instant coffee. The Salvation Army had 26 canteen trucks out delivering food and water. 
"If we can keep their stomachs full, they'll be a little more 
BEACH PARTY 
SATURDAY, AUG. 29 ®ST. JOSEPH LAKE BEACH 
contented," said Al Ritson, a Salvation Army official in Morg­an City. 
There was further good news on the gastronomic front: the Mcilhenny Co., makers of Tabasco Sauce, said its factory on Avery Island, just south of the town of New Iberia, was spared substantial damage. The factory served as a shelter for nearly 250 Tabasco workers during the storm. 
The hurricane, which ravaged subdivisions south of Miami on Monday, then raked the Louisiana coast 48 hours later, has already been labeled the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history. In addition to prelimi­nary estimates of up to $20 bil­lion in Florida damage alone, Andrew killed a total of 20 peo­ple in the two states and the Bahamas. 
In addition, a woman was killed early Thursday in a colli­sion at an intersection that lacked stoplights because of the storm. 
Andrew's remnants crossed Mississippi on Thursday with winds of about 35 mph. Jackson recorded 4 inches of rain, the National Weather Service said, and about 29,000 Mississippi homes and businesses lost power. 
MISSISSIPPI 
LaPlace: A tornado spun off by storm 
ripped through this suburb of New Orleans. The only storm­related death in the state 
confirmed by late morning. 
CARROT TOP 
Appearing: Saturday, August 29th and Sunday, August 30th 
8PM Washington Hall 
Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk (Satisfaction guaranteed or your money back!) 
As seen on: MTV, Evening at the Improv, Showtime Comedy Club Network Sponsored by Student Activities 
page t:> 1ne uoserver 
Valpo professor advises students to 'embrace diversity' after unrest 
VALPARAISO, Ind. (AP) -Fall classes have begun at Val­paraiso University, where racial incidents marred the spring, with president Alan Harre telling students to "embrace diversity." 
Harre told students at an convocation the campus will become home to more minority and international students. 
"It is my expectation that the long-term consequences of being able to live, study, work and play together will produce not only acceptance but, I be­lieve, there will also be created ... a growing appreciation for people who are different," he said Wednesday. 
"His message came across quite well," said Stacy Adams, a graduate education student who is black. 
"My feeling about what hap­pened last year is that it's all in the past," he said. "It's up to the students now to make sure that it stays in the past." 
The spring semester ended sourly with black and white students at the Lutheran college calling on students and administrators to recognize a problem of racism on campus. 
On April 3, white and black students brawled at a fraternity party, according to a police re­port. Three days later, a student set a roll of burning toilet paper and a cartoon bearing racial epithets outside the dormitory room of a black resident assistant. 
The following week, about 500 students gathered in protest at the campus chapel and marched on the adminis­tration building. 
Police later arrested Karl Spaletto, 19, a student from Palatine, Ill. A criminal arson charge is pending against Spaletto, who claimed the inci­dent was intended as a prank, investigators said. 
The resident assistant, LeTari Thompson, said things are dif­ferent this semester. 
"I really do believe there is a sincere change of attitude from what happened last spring," he said. "I do have a very positive attitude going into this year." 
The changes include: 
-two presidential committees studying race relations on campus to create a "multi-ra­cial, multi-cultural" climate on campus. 
-hiring a second admissions counselor to recruit minority students. 
-hiring a minority officer for the campus police department. 
"It's not something that's go­ing to change overnight," said Monique Bernoudy, director of the school's multi-cultural pro­grams department. "It's diffi­cult." 
Indiana rich gained income, poorlost it in 80s, a study shows 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The 
wealthiest Hoosiers saw their wallets expand even more in the 1980s, while Indiana's middle and poorer classes had shrinking incomes, a study re­leased Thursday showed. 
The Center on Public Policy Priorities said cash income for the wealthiest 20 percent of the state's families grew by $5,779, or 7. 7 percent, between 1979 and the late 1980s. 
But income for the middle 20 percent of Hoosiers declined $3,877 per family, or about 10 percent. And the poorest 20 percent of Indiana's families saw their incomes drop $2,764, or 21.2 percent. 
Nationwide, incomes for the wealthiest people grew $7,200 per family. The middle class saw an increase of $140 and the poorest lost $350, the study showed. All figures are ex­pressed in 1992 dollars and are adjusted for inflation. 
"In most states, middle-and lower-income families treaded water or lost ground over the course of the 1980s, while up­per-income families secured large income gains," said Isaac Shapiro, co-author of the report with Scott Barancik titled "Where Have All the Dollars Gone?" 
The non-partisan think tank, which does research on the poor and middle classes, exam­ined U.S Census Bureau pre-tax income data for 1979 and 1987­89. 
Indiana was joined by 13 other states -including Illinois, Ken­tucky, Michigan and Ohio ­that saw the rich gain money and the middle and poorer classes lose income. 
The center's researchers split families into five equal groups and analyzed the differences in how much the average family income grew in each group and how much of the total income each group received. 
Their analysis showed the gap between the richest and poorest 20 percent of families grew in 43 states while the gap between the richest 20 percent and the middle 20 percent grew in 46 states. 
The center attributed some of the disparity to cuts in unem­ployment and welfare benefits, changes in the tax code that burt the non-wealthy hard and weaker federal labor policies. 
"These figures understate the growth in income disparities, especially between the top and the middle class," the center said, because the data do not include cash income over $100,000 and do not count capital gains income, about 90 percent of which goes to families in the top fifth. 
U.S. will fly food to Somalian hungry 
MOMBASA, Kenya (AP) ­The United States will begin flying food directly to Somalia on Friday to feed hundreds of thousands of starving Somalis, a U.S. official said today. 
Marine Brig. Gen. Frank Libutti, in charge of the U.S. military operation, said the first 
t of six C-130s will take off before 
t 
t 
dawn Friday for Belet Huen, 670 miles northeast of Mom­basa. 
Libutti brought a 34-member advance team to Mombasa on Aug. 17. Since flights began last Friday, eight C-130 Hercules and four C-141 Starlifters have delivered about 925 tons to Somali refugees and drought-stricken Kenyans in northern Kenya. 
But the operation in Somalia, where 1.5 million people out of' a population of about 6.5 mil­lion are said to be in immediate danger of starvation, has be­come the focus of the airlift, ordered by President Bush. 
Welcome Students 

BAPTIST Student Union 
Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun Join September 7 U I 7 p.m.5• at Center for Social Concerns 
~ ~-~ --~----~----~
-
rrruay, 1"\U!:JU::H .:::o, 1::1::1.::: 
Alumni Association gets a 'gold medal' 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation has been awarded the Grand Gold Medal for excel­lence in alumni programming by the Council for the Ad­vancement and Support of Ed­ucation (CASE). 
The Grand Gold Medal is the highest honor given to univer­sity alumni organizations in CASE's annual recognition program. 
ND's Alumni Association is a "model program that reflects solid alumni programming," said Douglas Dibbert, chairman of the Commission on alumni Administration, which judged the 1992 competition. 
"There are many outstanding alumni programs around the country that are deserving of recognition, and we are pleased that Notre Dame has been awarded the Grand Gold," said Charles Lennon, assistant vice president of University relations and executive director of the Alumni Association. 
The 1992 award marks the fifth consecutive year ND's Alumni Association has been recognized by CASE. It earned gold medals in 1988 and 1990, and bronze medals in 1989 and 1991. 
Lennon credits the gold medal to the Association's outstanding professional staffs, board of directors and 200 local alumni club officers, but "it is the loyalty and active participation of our 88,000 alumni that really makes our organization outstanding," he said. 
Lennon will accept the Grand Gold medal July 13 at CASE's Annual Assembly in Atlanta. 

~ ~AMPUS (OPEN TO ALL N.D. STimENTS, FACULTY & ST~ * Co-Rec Softball * I I  
GRAD. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ONLY *Baseball* *Touch Football* *Tennis Singles-Men and Women* * Tennis Mixed Doubles *  
NOTRE DAME UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS ONLY * Football -Men and Women * *Tennis Singles-Men and Women* * Tennis Mixed Doubles * * Freshman Swim Meet * *Baseball* * 16" Softball *  

ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPfEMBER. 2 
n 
vide~ 
opening friday, august 28 
7 days a week • 5pm -llpm Basement of LaFortune 
new movies in 
Wayne's World Hook Fried Green Tomatoes juice Cape Fear &many more 
membership special: $5 + 1free rental 
t-nday, August 2~. 1992 1he uoserver page 7 

The Observer/David Hungeling 

What a selection 
presidential campaign," said 
Gov. Ann Richards. "It's really
Tim Loughran, a senior 
fun."
preprofessional and history major seaches through the shelves at 
Pandora's Books. Pandora's has become a popular location with 
Thirty-two electoral votes are 
students looking for used books. 
at stake in Texas, third-most 

Bush renews voters' act 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­President Bush has signed a 15-year extension of the Vot­ing Rights Act expanding assistance in the voting booth for non-English-speaking citizens. 
The original 1965 act re­quired help if 5 percent of a locality's citizens spoke a foreign language and did not know enough English to participate in the political process. 
Now, help will be mandated if a jurisdiction has 10,000 or more citizens who speak the same foreign language and are limited in their English proficiency. 
Another section requires voting assistance where more than 5 percent of the population are American In­dians or Alaska natives living on a reservation and speaking their own language. 
ONE·DOZEN 

STUPENDOUS 
SA.-.JCES 



If you can't decide on just one of our meat, seafood or cheese sauces, choose any two of a dozen delectable choices. Being indecisive has never been so rewarding. Entrees include soup or salad and freshly baked San Francisco sourdough bread, and lots of fun. 
9 
from giving basic health care to defended the interests of the all and time off from work to rich while ignoring working­parents with newborn or sick class families who need jobs, children. health care, family leave and 
"This administration's sole other help in tough times. 
Bush: Clinton plays on fear of foreigners 
CINCINNATI (AP) -President Bush campaigned across the nation's heartland Thursday saying Democratic rival Bill Clinton was trying to "exploit the darker impulses of this uncertain age" by seeking to collect more taxes on foreign­investment profits in the United States. 
Bush said Clinton was playing on "fear of the future, fear of the unknown, fear of foreign­ers." He said such a tax would invite retaliation by other countries and unleash "an economic war." 
"I know his reputation for op­portunism, the kind of guy who will say anything, do anything for political gain," Bush said. "But he should understand what's at stake here.... Those are American jobs he's playing politics with; those are Ameri­can workers he's putting at risk." 
Clinton, campaigning in Texas, 
Jefferson  


Main & Jefferson Hours Mon-Th 11 a.m. -11 p.m. Fri-Sat lla.m. -11 p.m. Sun 4 p.m. -9 p.m 
257 .-1100
... 
"This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste"
SpaghettiWarehouse 
Authentic New York Pizza 
Great Italian Food. All-American Fun. 
Calzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 
501 N. Niles Ave. • The Works Hotel: 232-4414 
3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out 
$2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
L_________________c______________ -­
called Bush's statements "ridiculous." 
Campaigning across the Mid­west, Bush opened the day with an address to factory workers in rain-soaked Missouri and then flew to Ohio for political rallies in Cincinnati and Find­lay. 
Bush narrowly won both states in 1988, with a 52 per­cent margin in Missouri and 55 percent in Ohio. His goal was to win back swing voters who supported him four years ago but appear now to have drifted away. 
At a downtown rally in Cincinnati's Fountain Square, Bush told a crowd of thousands that Clinton was shifting posi­tion on various issues. He said that Clinton had advocated higher fuel efficiency standards for cars but last week "sang a different tune.... He said and I quote, 'I never said that I didn't think there was more than one way to do it or that we shouldn't be flexible in the way we approach it."' 
"Now, you talk about backpedaling," Bush said. "This is crazy. And so I ask the American people, Is there a pattern going on here? Will Gov. Clinton say anything to anybody? America cannot af­ford in a president double­speak, double-talk, double­time." 
In Findlay, Bush linked Clinton with the American Trial Lawyers Association and its op­position to proposals to restrict civil lawsuits. 
"Doctors are afraid to practice medicine, some moms and dads won't coach Little League, and my opponent and the Trial Lawyers of America eye each other with goo-goo eyes like Boris and Natasha from the old Bullwinkle cartoon," Bush charged. 
------------~---~--~ 
llll:lUU::il:l!VI:ll 
page 8 Friday, August 28, 1992 
Arabs say Rabin's words are good, but words are not enough 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Arab diplomats on Thursday ap­plauded the cordial, "businesslike" tone set in a new round of peace talks by the government of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin but said they see no sign Israel is ready to match words with action on key issues. 
"We have seen some very positive sounding statements from the Rabin government," said Hanan Ashrawi, spokeswoman for the Pales­tinian delegation. "We have not seen any translation of these words into action." 
She harshly criticized Israeli 
Iran cited for human rights violations 
GENEVA (AP) -A U.N. hu­man rights panel on Thursday condemned Iran for flagrant human rights abuses, including torture, disappearances and unfair detention. 
The panel denounced an in­crease in summary executions following recent anti-govern­ment demonstrations and said it was "disturbed by many aspects of the official treatment of Iranian women." 
Winding up a month-long session, the Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities also voiced concern at human rights abuses in Peru, Haiti and Guatemala. 
It appealed for action to im­prove the supply of food and medicines to civilians in Iraq, but did not condemn Baghdad for its repression of Kurds and 
~hiites. 
The 26-member panel, part of the U.N. Human Rights Commission failed to criticize China's human rights record, despite reports by rights groups describing harsh treatment of oppositionists. 
The committee, in a resolu­tion adopted by 18-3 votes, saved its toughest words for Iran. There were two absten­tions. 
The body said it was "deeply concerned at the continuing vi­olations of human rights ... namely summary and arbitrary executions, torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, arbitrary arrests and detention, enforced or in­voluntary disappearances, lack of due process of law and fair trial and freedom of religion and expression." 
Infirmary 
continued from page 1 
tion, a student can still receive medical attention, Chelminiak said. 
"Health Services will provide the students with a list of alter­native health care facilities, such as the South Bend Clinic, where they can receive medical attention," she said. "For those students without access to transportation, Security will transport that student." 
Security has also taken on additional responsibilities in the transportation of students to medical facilities. 
"Security provided trans­portation to Health Services in the past, so transporting stu­dents ofT-campus will not take much more time than before," said Richard Chlebek, Director positions in the new set of talks. for Palestinian self-government perpetuating the Israeli occu­She said the proposal does not But she did not suggest an im­in the territories occupied Israel pation." call for the withdrawal of the passe had been reached or that since the 1967 Arab-Israeli She also said that the Pales­Israeli military and civilian the talks should be ended. conflict. tinian delegation remains seri­administration and is silent on 

The Israeli delegation, But Ashrawi said the propos­ously concerned that a $10 mil­such vital issues as settlements, meanwhile, is waiting for a .als are "incompatible" because lion U.S. loan guarantee to Is­land, water and the legal formal response from the the Israeli offer does not give rael will be used to perpetuate framework for a new Pales­Palestinians on its self-rule Palestinians sufficient authority and expand Israeli settlements tinian self-government body. proposal. "We have patience," or control over their own af­in the occupied territories. "There are serious legal and said Elyakim Rubinstein, the fairs. "There has to be an Israeli perceptual questions," she said. chief Israeli negotiator. "We don't want them to close . commitment -not just in "But this does not mean that we 
The Palestinians have not de­the door to (future Palestinian) words but in practice -that are not going to negotiate or cided among themselves statehood by keeping us under" the settlement activity will be that the talks are at an whether to accept a trial period continued Israeli occupation stopped," she said. impasse." of limited self-rule or to hold and control, she said. She characterized the Israeli "The talks have been very out for statehood, an Israeli She contended the Israeli proposal as an actual pleasant and polite," she said. diplomat said. proposal is "tantamount to ac­"regression" from the com­"If you judge negotiations by 
Both sides have now put on tual annexation without saying mitments made by Israel in the tone, we should have succeeded the table competing proposals so" and is "merely a means of 1978 Camp David accords. by now." 
CA court: tapes may be element in murder trial 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP) -allowed potentially crucial Tape-recorded notes of psy­prosecution evidence in the tri­chiatric sessions in which two als. brothers allegedly admitted The disputed evidence came murdering their wealthy par­from four sessions between the ents can be used by prosecu­brothers and psychologist tors, the state Supreme Court Jerome Oziel. According to ex­ruled today. cerpts quoted last year by an 
The state's highest court appeals court, the brothers told ruled today that potentially cru­Oziel in the first two sessions cial evidence in the case of Erik that they had killed their par­and Lyle Menendez of Beverly ents, and threatened to kill the Hills can be used because the therapist, his family and asso­two tapes describe psychiatric ciates if he told anyone. sessions at which threats were Oziel then warned his wife made. and girlfriend they were in 
Both brothers could be sen­danger and told them about the tenced to death if convicted of conversations. The girlfriend the August 1989 shotgun mur­called police. ders of their parents, enter­The tapes were made by Oziel tainment executive Jose Me­after the sessions as a way of nendez, 45, and his wife, Kitty, keeping notes on the sessions. 47. 
Prosecutors say Lyle, then 21, Prosecutors also sought and Erik, 18, were after a $14 Oziel's taped notes of a third million inheritance. They have session and his actual tape been in jail for more than two recording of a fourth session. years. The high court overturned a 
Today's unanimous ruling lower court ruling allowing re­barred disclosure of tapes from lease of those tapes, saying
A construction worker oversees the application of concrete tor the 
two other psychiatric sessions. there were no threats in those
sesquicentennial monument. The monument will be located at the 
But by permitting disclosure of sessions that Oziel had to dis­
end of the new DeBartolo Quad facing Fitzpatrick Hall. 
the first two sessions, the court close to others. 
Suicide machine inventor loses bid for license 
SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (AP) - helped Janet Adkins kill herself  Kevorkian said the order  unethical now is religious  
Suicide machine inventor Dr.  in June 1990 and was present  would not stop him from coun­ dogma."  
Jack Kevorkian lost a bid to re­ when Marjorie Wantz and  seling people who want to die.  
gain his medical license Thurs­ Sherry Miller ended their lives  Kevorkian said he is currently  
day, when a state panel said it  in October 1991.  "They can never hurt me....  counseling three or four people,  
was upholding an earlier order  They've only impaired my abil­ including a paraplegic and a  
against reinstatement.  At the time, board members  ity to help suffering humanity,"  cancer patient.  
"It is self-evident that suicide  said they didn't believe their  he said. "What I'm doing was  "None is imminent but one is  
is the antithesis of healing,"  action would stop Kevorkian,  absolutely ethical in the days of  close" to preparing to die, he  
board representative Dr. John  but felt they had to do some­ Hippocrates. What makes it  said.  
Ingold wrote in an opinion  thing.  
dated Aug. 21 and released  Kevorkian's lawyer, Geoffrey  & IT ALIAN RESTAURANT  
Thursday in Lansing.  Fieger, said he expected to ap­ 
The Board of Medicine tem­ peal to Circuit Court. The board  
porarily suspended Kevorkian's  will decide later whether to  
license on Nov. 20, 1991. The  suspend Kevorkian's license  
action came after Kevorkian  permanently.  CARRY OUT ONLY  
of Security.  "we will have an opportunity to  Buy any 16" or 18" pizza & get a 2 liter Coke, Diet Coke, Sprite or  
Chelminiak said she thinks  provide more education on  one  
the changes in Health Services  wellness and illness prevention  Brag's Root Beer  
will be positive.  so the students can take more  52303 Emmons Rd. 
"Now that the center is not  responsibility for their own  Georgetown Shopping Center  
open 24 hours a day," she said,  health."  (next to Club Shenanigan's)  

Decorate your room in styI e with flowers, plants, &balloons 
Heaven & Earth 
143 Dixie Way South (31 North) (1/4 mile North of Notre Dame) 
10% discount with Student I. D. 

Lower the numbers and raise your odds. 
Controlling your blood pressure can reduce your chances of heart disease. Have your blood pressure checked. And keep it in check for life. 


t-nday, August 2~. 1992 
Attorney: Fair trial in U.S. impossible for LA police 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -The memory of the Los Angeles ri­ots will make a jury anywhere in the United States afraid to acquit the four policemen charged in the beating of Rod­ney King, one of the officer's lawyers suggested Thursday. 
The officers were indicted earlier this month on federal charges of violating King's civil rights. U.S. District Judge John Davies set their trial for Feb. 2 to give lawyers time to file ex­tensive pretrial motions. 
Davies scheduled a pre-trial hearing for Nov. 12. 
He agreed to preside over the case even though he had been assigned to handle King's law­suit for damages against the city of Los Angeles. He said he saw no conflict since the lawsuit is on hold. 
Harland Braun, who recently stepped in as Officer Theodore Briseno's lawyer, said he will argue for dismissal of the case. 
Braun said the publicity sur­rounding the officers' state trial in Simi Valley and the riot in Los Angeles after their acquit­tals tainted prospective jurors throughout the United States. 
"We feel the extraordinary publicity in this case means that any juror anywhere in the country would hesitate to vote not guilty," Braun told the judge. 
"Anywhere in the country?" the judge asked in astonish­ment. "Do you have the evi­dence that there are not 12 people anywhere?" 
Braun responded that if there were 12 unbiased jurors, they would be impossible to find. He said he would present surveys and demographic studies to support his unprecedented motion to dismiss. 
1he uoserver page9 
The Observer I Maureen Long 
Hard at work 
Mohlabarie Mernou works at the Hesburgh computer lab. 


5936 Grape Road •Indian Ridge Plaza 
Mishawaka. IN (219) 271·2388 ~ 

They 
Might 
Be 
Giants 
Thursday, September 1Oth Stepan Center 
Tickets: $8 Students $12 Public On sale now at LaFortune Info Desk 
m.JDEMT UNION ~RD 
DETROIT (AP) -Former Po­be diverted through fake com­lice Chief William Hart was panies set up by former Deputy sentenced Thursday to a max­Chief Kenneth Weiner. It said imum 10 years in federal prison Hart took the rest through for embezzling $2.6 million checks for cash and other im­from a police fund and for proper withdrawals from the income tax evasion. fund. 
Hart, 68, was sentenced be­Weiner is serving a 30-month fore U.S. District Judge Paul prison term for his role in the Gadola. theft. 
The 40-year police veteran In July, the U.S. Attorney's was convicted in May of two office asked U.S. District Judge counts of embezzlement and Paul Gadola to give Hart the two counts of tax evasion. Pros­maximum 10-year prison sen­ecutors said Hart stole $2.6 mil­tence. lion from the fund, established But defense attorney Thomas to pay for drug buys and un­Cranmer earlier this month dercover operations. asked for probation and a 
Gadola sentenced Hart to 10 lengthy term of community years -the maximum allowed service, although he acknowl­-on each of the two embez­edged that federal sentencing zlement charges and three guidelines all but rule that out. years on each of the tax Hart resigned for the force charges. He said the sentences May 8, the day after his convic­would be served concurrently. tion. A pension board ruled he 
The government said Hart al­is entitled to a $53,000 annual lowed about half the money to pension despite the convictions. 
WELCOME WEEKEND '92 
THURSDAY. AUGUST 27TH 
Encino Man SB White Sox vs. Beloit Brewers 7 pm, 9:30 pm, 12:00 am 7 pm--Coveleski Field CushingAuditorium FREE FREE! Tickets at La Fortune -"$ .;.!_­
l~~!fb. 
Info Desk ~ft~ 
~'-·
~ 
FRIDAY. AUGUST 28TH 
Live at Stonehenge: Rockfest! 
4 pm-12:00 am 
Fieldhouse Mall (Rain Location: Stepan Center) 
Bands scheduled to appear: 
The Porkchoppers Ryan's Suitcase 
Victoria's Real Secret XYZ Affair 
Dysfunktion Acce~s Denied Katharsis 
Free snow cones, sodas, popcorn,.. spin art! 
SATURDAY. AUGUST 29th 
Beach Party at Stepan Courts 1pm-5pm WVFI live remote I -----::.. Tie-dyeing One ton sundae 
1a/
Volleyball tournament Giveaways ~ 
SATURDAY/SUNDAY AUGUST 29th/30th 
Comedian Carrot Top as seen on MTV, Showtime Comedy Club 
Network, Evening at the Improv 8 pm Washington Hall ~11'11....:;~~ Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Student Union, 
Board, WVFI, Classes of 1993, 1994 and 1995 : 
....................................········....................................... 

page 10 1 he Observer t-noay, August 2tl, 1992 
Most Americans agree, condom distribution in public schools should be allowed, Gallop poll shows 
LOS ANGELES (AP} ­Barbara Bush wrapped up a campaign tour of California on Thursday with some of the most partisan remarks of her political life, attacking con­gressional Democrats and warning of economic doom under Bill Clinton. 
"We have good programs, but the Congress is so wrapped up in their own scandals and their own funny doings that they're not willing to back good programs," she said in a telephone interview with radio station KABC-AM. "(It's} politically motivated." 
The first lady said the only reason former President Reagan "got things done" in the 1980s was because he had a Republican-run Senate for six years. 
"Ever since the Democrats took over the Senate, it's just been an enormous fight," she said. "And what we're hoping is going to happen is they're going to ... clean the House and clean the Senate and give us a Republican president with a Republican Congress. Then watch how things grow." 
Asked whether the country could do better with a president who can work with a Democratic Congress, Mrs. Bush spoke of the economic conditions under former President Carter. 
"We had a Democratic pres­ident with the Democratic Congress, and we had interest rates at 21 percent, and double­digit inflation and double-digit unemployment, and that didn't work," she said. "(Democrats) want to raise taxes and raise spending. That is just going to spiral us up into all these awful things again." 
Mrs. Bush spent three days in California, an electoral gold mine with 54 electoral votes ­nearly one-fifth of those needed to capture the White House. 
Her trip was an effort by the Bush-Quayle campaign to use Mrs. Bush's high popularity to turn around the president's standing in California. A poll taken before last week's Republican national convention found him trailing Clinton by 34 percentage points. 
Instead of speaking about her usual favorite subjects, including literacy, Mrs. Bush included sharp partisan attacks in her remarks. Her favorite targets have been congressional Democrats and the press. 
In the radio interview, she remarked of the news media: "I would never say they were pro­George." In an interview in San Francisco she went a step further, saying the press was made up of liberals and Democrats who are "for Bill Clinton." 
Wildfires burning in California and Idaho 
ROUND MOUNTAIN, Calif. (AP} -Crews worked Thursday to dig the last three miles of containment lines around a 64,000-acre wildfire that au­thorities suspect was caused by arson. 
In Idaho, fire crews drew closer to closing the contain­ment line around the 127-mile perimeter of the 257,600-acre Foothills Fire, the nation's largest wildfire. 
Crews had less than 20 miles of fire line to go before {hey would surround the eight-day­old fire 30 miles east of Boise. There were indications the Sept. 6 containment target could be moved forward, even as some firefighting teams were allowed to leave. 
"We're starting to scale down our operation," spokesman Jack DeGolia said. "Because the fire's not advancing, th.e job now is patrol to keep the fire within established lines." 
California's largest wildfire this season, which has de­stroyed 307 homes in Northern California towns along Highway 299 northeast of Redding, was 7 5 percent contained Thursday, said California Department of 
Forestry spokeswoman Kay McQuade. 
Arson emerged as the proba­ble cause as investigators eliminated such other factors as lightning, downed power lines and campfires. 
Shasta-Trinity Ranger Unit Chief Ray Stewart speculated that a motorist may have set the fire, then driven away. 
In Southern California, fire­fighters hoped to encircle a 3,800-acre wildfire in the southern San Joaquin Valley by Saturday night. 
No structures were burned or threatened in the remote area at the base of Tejon Pass, about 10 miles from the community of Arvin. 
The cause of the fire, which started Saturday, has not been determined. 
In Northern California, winds were expected to remain light with temperatures in the mid­80s to low 90s through Friday, and officials said that was helping 3,300 firefighters keep the blaze in check. At least four hot spots remained, however. 
All but a few of the 7,500 people forced to flee during the course of the 7 -day-old fire had been allowed to return. 
Mrs. Bush toughens remarks 
LOS ANGELES (AP} ­
Barbara Bush wrapped up a campaign tour of California on Thursday with some of the most partisan remarks of her political life, attacking con­gressional Democrats and warning of economic doom under Bill Clinton. 
"We have good programs, but the Congress is so wrapped up in their own scandals and their own funny doings that they're not willing to back good programs," she said in a telephone interview with radio station KABC-AM. "(It's) politically motivated." 
The first lady said the only reason former President Reagan "got things done" in the 1980s was because he had a Republican-run Senate for six years. 
"Ever since the Democrats took over the Senate, it's just been an enormous fight," she said. "And what we're hoping is going to happen is they're going to ... clean the House and clean the Senate and give us a Republican president with a Republican Congress. Then watch how things grow." 
Industry claims of reduced wastes a farce, group charges 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Indus­try claims of reducing toxic chemical releases largely reflect loopholes in reporting or revised recordkeeping -not actual pollution cuts -a citizen group charged Thursday. 
The Environmental Protection Agency said in May that in­dustrial plants reported releas­ing 11 percent less toxic chemi­cals -still some 4.83 billion pounds -into the air, water and ground during 1990 than in the previous year. 
Citizen Action, a Washington­based watchdog group, said its analysis of the EPA-provided figures and interviews with of-
A 
:MEMORIAL 
TO THE 
AMERICAN
CANCER 
SOCIE1Y 
WILL HELP 
IN THE
CONQUEST
OF CANCER. 
l
iangle Drafting Supply 
1021 North M.ln Street Milh_.ka, lndiona 46645 
VISA I (2111 2511·2451 1111 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS M-F SAM-5:30PM SAT I AM-NOON 
ficials at dozens of companies suggest most of the reductions stemmed from recordkeeping changes and loopholes that al­lowed some chemicals to be released without being counted. 
"There is little evidence to suggest that a large number of (industrial) facilities have cut their pollution substantially or that the reductions that have occurred will be permanent," maintained Citizen Action. 
The most frequent reasons given for the reported reduc­tions were changes in what chemicals the EPA required to be reported, changes in how wastes were being estimated, lower production levels or other factors not related to new pollu­tion controls, the group said. 
The report's authors based their findings largely on re­sponses from representatives of the 50 companies that reported the largest reductions in chemical releases between 1989 and 1990. 
While most of the facilities re­ported some real reductions, "some companies figured out they could reduce their re­ported wastes by merely chang­ing the way they report them," said the study. 
Among companies credited by the group with achieving actual waste reductions: the 3M Chemolie Center in Cottage Grove, Minn., cut releases by 8 million pounds by eliminating the use of certain solvents; the GMC Central Foundry Division in Defiance, Ohio, reduced emissions by using less foam and fewer casting blocks in its production process. 
Citizen Action said the manu­facturing companies with the largest amount of toxic chemi­cal releases are DuPont, nearly 220 million pounds; American Cyanamid, Co., 172 million 


I • • ALUMNI 
-SENIOR 
CLIFF IS BACK! 
This Friday and Saturday 
Come Find Out What You've Been Missing 
9-2 
Must be 21 yrs. old 
pounds; Monsanto Co., nearly 138 million pounds; Freeport McMoRan, 100 million pounds, and Kennecott Corp., 96 million pounds. 
The releases are legal and comply with existing permits. 
Richard Cutting, an attorney for Freeport McMoRan, said the company has a $20 million program under way to cut its releases of phosphoric and sulfuric acids from two rertilizer plants -which account for most of the company's reported releases-by 75 percent within two years. 
..""'-·. 
..••, ..,.·-.......,·~ ·• ......... .;.'-..~ -'-~...J ll. ...... s ........ J ._.,.. ,...~-:'r"r-...r~~.~~.....-~...-..........-. ---.... ----4 ... ...... ~-... _____ ­
-~-~-'
........·~ ....... --.---.... 

Viewpoint 
Friday, August 28, 1992 page 11 

"Gregorian chants sung by Deeelite," I said, by way of greeting my friend Ellen. 
"Hey, how was your sum­mer?" Ellen asked. 
I tried valiantly to mask my disappointment. I'd already tried this Gregorian chant by Deeelite business on two other 
Andrew Cutrofello 
Subterranean Homesick Politics 
colleagues who just flashed me a well-intentioned pitying smile. "Aren't you going to ask me what in the world I'm talking about, Ellen?" 
"No, I've learned better," she politely replied. "But OK, it's the beginning of the semester, so I'll bite. Is this an album on your wish list?" 
"Totally not," I cheerfully re­torted. ''I'm trying to figure out what would be the stupidest thing to try to market. How do you like this one: Maoist power suits?" 
"I've got a better one," Ellen said. 
Incredible. Ellen was not only humoring me, she actually wanted to play this game. I made a mental note to look into the laws about patenting stupid games. Maybe I could farm it out to Parker Brothers. 
"OK, what's your better one?" I said in a challenging tone, reminding myself that I had high-sodium bubblegum with chicken fat up my sleeve. 
"The Republican party's Presidential ticket." 
Maybe I hadn't explained the rules of the game clearly enough. "Ellen, you're saying that the 1992 Republican ticket is the stupidest thing anyone could think of marketing?" 
"You bet. And I'm talking even if Quayle weren't on it. Did 
DOONESBURY 

toOK, OARLIN6, IT'S TH8 5T81Nf3t.RG51 MY, '3H8'S HOW/NV 
UP NUL-, C1JN'3/0­
ERJNG5H8'5 Q..OS£3 TO FORTY­50Mffl'HING... 
y 
you see that ludicrous spectacle the Republicans put on in Hous­ton last week?" 
"Uh, I think I was busy that night." 
"Well you didn't miss much of substance. But you did miss some of what I took to be the stupidest political oratory of all time." 
Damn, I thought. Being something of a connoisseur of the stupid, I hate to miss out­standing specimens. Like when 
I  forget  to  watch  Geraldo.  
Maybe  I'd  better  do  some  
catching up.  

"So what made the Republi­can convention so stupid?" I asked. 
"For starters, there was Patrick Buchannan. Of course, what he had to say was so evil, so full of hatred, bigotry, and deceit that you couldn't even enjoy the stupidity factor. I just hope that the vast majority of Americans realize how evil were the things that man said." 
"That sounds worse than the merely stupid," I offered. 
"It was," Ellen agreed. "But with Bush and Quayle, you could kind of sit back and savor some quality stupidity, since their line about what's wrong with this country was just in­credibly stupid." 
"They might have been stupid, Ellen," I said by way of clarifying the rules of the game, "but the question is whether it's stupid for the Republicans to market their stupidity or not. I mean, pet rocks may have been stupid, but they obviously weren't a stupid thing to market." 
Ellen looked depressed. "You're right. That's the part I'm trying to block out. And it's really scary when you consider the awful things that could come from another victory by these rightwingers. Just the thought of four more years of Lynne Cheney is enough to make me think seriously .about defecting to Canada~" 
Not wanting Ellen to feel sad, I tried to cheer her up by out­stupiding the Republican ticket. "Velcro bungee-jumping gear?" I said hopefully. 
Ellen smiled. "Sorry, the Re­publican party is still stupider. I mean, how can anyone take them seriously? Look at the pa­thetically lame argument Bush is using on the campaign trail about why he should be re­elected." 
"You mean how he's trying to 
blame Congress alone for things 
like high unemployment?" 
"Sure, and how if only the rich could be given another tax break, everything would be la­de-da. Stuff like that. Four years ago, Americans were still -buying that cynical product. Now it just sounds like a pitch for retro-junk bonds on the Ed­
sel line." 
"Woahh! Now that's a classic 
stupid, Ellen," I said admiringly. 
"Hmmm. That'll be tough to 
beat." 
Ellen gave me a "Buck up, 
kid" punch on the arm. "I'll tell 
you something, though," she 
said. "I hope I'm right." 
"You mean about how stupid 
the Republican line is?" 
"No, I'm sure of that. But I 
hope I'm not overestimating the 
intelligence level of the 
electorate this year. Especially 
since you never know what 
dirty tricks lie ahead. Come Oc­
tober, you can be sure that Ge­
orge Bush is going to be itching 
to get this country involved in a 
war somewhere. God knows 
there are enough opportunities 
out there." 
Depressed at the thought, I 
asked in a hopeful tone, "Surely 
that would be the stupidest 
thing of all, wouldn't it? I mean, 
wouldn't it be obvious to all 
Americans that Bush was 
bombing somebody just to help 
him get re-elected?" 
-EJlen shrugged. "Hope so. But 
you never know. Hey, look at 
the time. I'll catch you later, 
OK?" 
"Yeah, I'll see you, Ellen." 
I don't think I want to play 
this stupid game again. 
Andrew Cutrofello is a professor ofphilosophy at Saint Mary's College. His columns appear every other Friday. 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
a/HeN YOU 
SU/?FAQ;., [)EAI?,CWJ..[} 
YOU ASK 
F0RTH8 
Olea<~ 
I 
'The thought of being President frightens me.' 
Ronald Reagan (speaking in 1973) 
Stop, drop, roll one up, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

----------------T -----~ > ~....------~----~-~ -----·----~ -­


Beach party provides final taste of summer 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
s 
un-worshippers will be elated to know that this year, 
coming to South 
Bend does not mean forsaking the traditional comforts of summer. 
Campus organizations will be praying for sunshine to grace Stepan field this weekend for the beach party being sponsored by Student Activities, SUB, WVFI radio and the student government. Six tons of sand will be dumped on Stepan for the event, which will run from 1 o'clock to 5 o'clock on Saturday. 
The party is intended to welcome Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students officially and give them a final taste of summer before gloomy Indiana weather and more serious academic commitments become unavoidable. 
"This is designed to be your last fling on the beach . .. before being caught under the 'permacloud,' as some people call it," said 
Adele  Lanan,  assistant  
director  of  Student  
Activities.  

Lanan, who said SUB had sponsored similar beach parties in the past, hopes this weekend's scaled-down version will renew interest in the event and keep spirits high on campus. She insisted that students should be encouraged to take advantage of the simulated beach scene by wearing bathing suits and bringing towels and suntan lotion. 
Transporting the ocean proved slightly more difficult than shipping in the 
'This is designed to be your last fling on the beach ... before being caught under the 'permacloud' ...' 
--Adele Lanan 
sand, but to compensate for the lack of waves and keep students refreshed, SUB will provide a one-ton sundae on the scene. 
As a break from sun­bathing, a casual volleyball tournament will run throughout the day. Avid players may pre-register teams of six outside the WVFI office on the second floor of Lafortune throughout the afternoon on Friday. Less intense sports fans should not abandon hope, however, because all players will be welcomed on Saturday. Prizes for the volleyball matches will be awarded. 

Dan Langrill, an NO senior and this year's WVFI station manager, is eager to broadcast live from the welcome back beach party for more than one reason. 
"First and foremost," said Langrill, "we want people to have fun." The party also provides a rare but excellent opportunity for campus organizations like SUB and WVFI to work together. Langrill commented that the student-run radio station could profit from the exposure, making students more aware of the variety of music WVFI plays. 
The station will be roaming the campus throughout the day, broadcasting from dorm rooms and encouraging all students to head for "the beach." 
I 

h~~fen 
people 
home 
system 
or the most 
place to h 
house keys. 
just a fe 
amazing i 
designed by 
Carrot Top. 
Original 
Rocklidge, 
Scott Thorn 
(a.k.a. Ca began his career while ing student Atlantic Univ 
page 13 
Top campus bands to appear at Rockiest 
By LAURIE SESSA The Pork Choppers should be Assistant Accent Editor playing in the first slot around 4 
p.m. according to guitar player Joe Huston. He said, "we play a 
A 
mong the myriad of 
wide variety of rock songs from
activities going on 
REM to Metallica. We basically
around campus these 
do covers, but we're working onfirst few weeks, Live at some originals to incorporate." 
Stonehenge: Rockfest! is 
XYZ Affair should appearanother event to keep students 
between 6 p.m. -7 p.m.,
busy. 
according to Scott Gruszynski,As part of Welcome Weekend 
one of the band's original
'92, Rockfest! will take place members. He said, "we play a lot
from 4 p.m.-12 a.m. today at 
covers like Van Halen and RedFieldhouse Mall. In case of bad Hot Chili Peppers -mostly classic 
weather, the rain location is 
rock with a little funk." He saidStepan Center. 
that the band frequently plays atWelcome Weekend '92 is being Bridget's during the year. 
jointly sponsored by Student 
Access Denied will play around Activities, Student Union Board, 7 p.m.-8 p.m. tonight, according WVFI, and the Classes of 1993, to lead guitar player and singer1994, and 1995. Representatives Dave Curran. "We play generally from all groups met in the spring 
classic rock-not necessarily
to generate ideas, and most of oldies, but great songs from thethe legwork was done this 60's, 70's, and 80's," he said. 
summer by Gayle Spencer, Access Denied is playing atAssistant Director of Student 
Bridget's on Saturday night, andActivities, and Matt Bomberger, 
The Alumni-Senior Club on
Director of Programming for the Wednesday.
Student Union Board, according Jason Thomas, lead vocals forto Spencer. 
Katharsis, said that their band is
The concept of Welcome tentatively scheduled to playWeekend '92 developed from 
tonight some time after 8 p.m.
previous freshmen week He said that Katharsis playsactivities that members of 
"mostly classic rock-n-roll like
Student Activities wanted to the Doors, Led Zeppelin, and

extend to all students. According Pink Floyd, and we also do a few 
to Spencer, the first weekend of ­
originals."
the semester was chosen 
According to Marty Mennes,because it takes a while for the 
drummer for Victoria's Realclass governments to get 
Secret, the band is excited to be
~rot Top's national tour 
organized, and Student Activities playing today. He said that their
wanted to relieve them by music sounds "like the stuffhaving something already 
people like" and described theplanned. 
band as "an alternative,Several campus bands industrial, funk-punk thrash
including The Pork Choppers, band with a mellow appeal." HeXYZ Affair, Access Denied,
~!~~~~ ,!,~. h~~~.~~.~~~m~t booke~ 
also said, "our music is 95
Katharsis, Victoria's Real Secret, 
ditor decided to pursue clubs such as New college act of the year percent original." Victoria's is
and Dysfunktion are scheduledcomedy because he was York's famous Catch a after his talents were 
to appear at today's scheduled to appear tonight 
1 a clothes "driven by the laughter Rising Star. sho.wcased ~t. the extravaganza. In addition to the tentatively around 9 p.m. 
for short of others," according to Among his many Natwnal Assoct~tl.o~ of bands, students can get free Dysfunktion, winner of the Naz the best his agent Kathy Kern. television credits are Campl!s Actlvttles, snowcones and spin art from 4 competition, will appear last onsecurity Easily recognized by Evening at the Improv, accordmg to Kern. 
p.m.-7 p.m., and free soda and 
for $10, his attire-orange, Comedy Central, Star the agenda around 10:30 p.m.
popcorn from 7 p.m.-12 a.m.
ngenious purple, blue, green, Search, Jonathan Such popularity with Dysfunktio.n plays mostly funk
According to Spencer, the
de your plaid, stripes, and Winters' Showtime college students led to and rhythm and blues, according 
bands were chosen based
'hese are bowling shoes, Carrot Special, Comic Strip his nomination as the to member Harrison Keller. He
somewhat on their performance
of the Top transforms Live, and America's Campus Entertainer of said that their music "is like ventions observations of Super Showcase. the Year which will be in the Naz competition, an event something you'd see in The omedian everyday life into He arrives in South announced in sponsored by Student Activities 
Blues Brothers." He said people
inventions and creative Bend directly from Los November. last spring. 
can find the band throughout the from props. Angeles where he was As part of Student "We looked at bands from the year at places like Club 23 andFlorida, Carrot Top comes to filming a comedy Union Board's Naz competition so that we could Bridget's.
wn, 27, Notre Dame as part of a special with Shelley "Welcome Week," stu­get the top six to eight bands in 
Jt Top) collegiate tour that Long, and another with dents can catch the Between bands, a deejay from
the student's eyes," said Spencer. 
comedy covers schools in all 50 Disney/MGM Studios. unique and zany obser­WVFI will play, so "there will
Some bands were not able to
market-states. He brings to vations of Carrot Top, never be a Iull in music,"
participate because of graduated 
. Florida campus experience that Carrot Top is a favorite Friday and Saturday, according to Spencer. 
seniors, but Student Activities
sity. includes performances among college August 28, 29 at "Bring blankets. It's a great 
~ a local at over 200 eastern col-campuses and became Washington Hall. was able to schedule six of the way to relax on a Friday night," top bands from the competition. 
she said. 
page 14 The Observer Friday, August 28, 1992 
To a domer d 
Patrick Deviny, '90, former voices could be heard raised Hemingway wrote: "If people Glee Clubber and Stanford resi­loudly in Israel's great love bring so much courage to this dent, died this summer after Father Robert Griffin poem: "Shema Yisrael world, the world has to kill years of recurring bouts with Adonoi. .. Hear, 0 Israel, the them to break them, so of cancer. Letters to a Lonely God Lord is our God... " So very often course it kills them. The world 
Jim McKay from "Wide World this summer the scenes of breaks everyone and afterward of Sports" recently explained suffering carried on television many are strong at the broken how he dealt with the media I figured that I couldn't blame blood doesn't have answers could have been reproduced on places. But those that will not 
after the terrorists attacked the Him for not listening, since He like, "Father, forgive them. holy cards as stations of the break it kills. It kills the very Olympic Village in Munich in doesn't exist." They don't know what they're Cross. good and the very gentle and 1972, killing eleven young For Michael, Pat Deviny's doing," on the tip of its tongue. I wasn't in touch with Pat the very brave impartially ... " 
Israelis. McKay phoned his wife dying young with cancer would You don't need religion to Deviny after he left Notre The world breaks us, I think, back home in the States, asking be proof that God is dead, if He explain how He might have Dame; so it would be with its hatred, but more oftent her to dictate the words of ever existed at all. walked on water, or turned presumptuous of me to write with its indifference. Many who Housman's poem, "To an I'm too old to argue the water into wine. But the divine him a eulogy, even though I should know better, because Athlete Dying Young". One question of God's existence. graciousness He showed to His loved him. But I've seen him they claim Christ as an ally, do 
stanza particularly moved him, Human beings themselves-half murderers encourages us to several times as he was starting great damage with their said McKay, and he was able to ape, half angel-are all the trust in Him as one on whom home because his cancer had hostility or lack of caring. recite it from memory: "Now proof I need; so often at death, God's favor rests. returned, and he needed to go 
you will not swell the rout/Of one sees them angel-side up. I "I believe in Him as God's back to the hospital. God takes no pleasure in the lads that wore their honours don't need metaphysics or son because He rose from ·the From seeing Patrick, starting suffering and battering and out,/Runners whom renown syllogisms to prove from reason dead, proving that the love He to ail, and from seeing other killing of the athletes dying outran/And the name died that humankind, ascending or showed us on the Cross was students with cancer when they young, and so He sent His Son before the man." descending Jacob's ladder, stronger than death." were terminal, I know where to be our hero, and a contender I hope it played well in serving as a highway between Michael's alleged atheism God is -in the sick room of the Who, by His show of guts, could Munich, but it's not what I want heaven and hell, is God's piece wasn't even dented. Where was young. turn His life into a moveable to say about Patrick. The sad­of work, just as Manhattan's God at the Holocaust? As much as I could see of feast for us· all. In Him, grace ness we feel when we hear of skyscrapers and bridges, as Obviously, in the cries of the Him, I would be able to see in under pressure achieved its people dying young could be well as the burnt-out buildings dying. Pat's face. Pat's pain was His masterpiece. Though they wasted, if we sidestepped our of Fort Apache the Bronx, are "Excuse me, please," pain. The kindness and peace thought they had His back to chance of trying to look God in humanity's doing. Lawrence Kushner, a heard in Pat's voice must have the canvas, they couldn't keep the eye. Elie Wiesel tells of a day in contemporart rabbi, might tell been of God. No one was more Him down for the count. It is Armchair theologians on a the death camps when a fifteen you. The question is not where thoughtful than Pat was. in his because of Him that those wavelength with grief have told year old was being hanged. A was God?, but why do human days as a student, struggling to whom the world breaks can be 
me that their religious faith has voice cried: "Where is God?" beings do such things?". keep his pain private, and his strong at the broken places. 
been wiped out by the cosmic The answer came back: The Jewish artist Marc complaints under wraps. It is because of Him that indifference that permits the "He's there at the end of the Chagall depicts Jesus sharing in "Nothing is his life became Patrick, enduring the loneliness death of young children, or the rope with the lad." I decided to Jewish suffering. In the painting him like the leaving of it," of the long-distance runner and young parents of children. " try that approach with Michael. "The White Crucifixtion," Jesus proving his noblesse oblige, then some, became an 
If there were a God, He "Where was God at the is surrounded by scenes from before the letting go. The Olympian who won the gold. 
wouldn't allow such a thing," crucifixion?" the pogroms -Jews killed, tribute to Hamlet's father can "Smart lad, to slip betimes claims a student I'll call Michael answered: "Where hunted down, and driven away; be extended to a host of great­away/From fields where glory Michael, who gave up going to He always is: out to lunch." synagogues burning; Torah hearted souls, leaving us the does not stay/And early though Mass when his own father died I said: "Wasn't He there on scrolls desecrated. memory of their graciousness the laurel grows/It withers the year Michael started high the Cross with nails in His What Chagall couldn't show is as a legacy. quicker than the rose." When school. hands?" how typically Jewish He was Part of the heartbreak of the Jim McKay read that, did he be­
"My mother needed a And Charlie wanted to know: when He clung to Yahweh in his Pat Devaneys, going home, is lieve it? I don't believe it, and I husband, and my brothers and I "How can you tell?" hour of trail. Eye witnesses of their great sweetness in the don't think it fits Pat. I have needed our Dad; and we told I answered: "I can tell by the the Holocaust report that as the face of adversity. How beautiful nothing but regrets that Pat 
God so when we prayed. On the way He responded to suffering layers liquidating the victims they are, in their valedictions slipped betimes away; for the day my father died, I knew He that He must have been in a was beginning in the gas forbidding mourning. truth is: Patrick, we hardly 
hadn't bothered to listen. Later, state of grace. Mere flesh and chambers of those death camps, knew ye. 
-

Frczcz Rczfrczshmcznts 
• 
Pool TableNideo Games 

• 
Big Screen TV 

• 
Snack Bar 

• 
No Smoking Section 

• 
Friendly Attendants 

• 
Dry Cleaning/Drop Off (Appt. Recomd.l 


Includes shampooNO 
& conditioner. 
APPOINTMENT 
Long-hair & NECESSARY 65 Years 
< ­
specialty wraps
Total Experience 
higher.
Euro Tan Tanning Beds 
• A Free Color TV 
• Dry Cleaning Service 
• Drop Off Laundry Service IUPl 
Enter Our Drawings! ~ 
-COUPON--COUPON-
World., Greate1t laundromat 
1813 South Bend Ave., at Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 
we c.are llair
(Behind Werntz Hardware) 
,~4
Open 7 -Days 271-7675 7:00AM to 11:00 PM At Campus Shoppes 1811 South Bend Ave.
50% Off Any Drop-Off Laundry Shopping Center HAIRCUT regular 65~ a pound OPEN7-DAYS 271-7674 No Appointments
.. _____ -COUPON­
_
Same Day Service 
.. ---------------~------------­
1 
~ 
1 
I Friday, August 28, 1992 The Observer page 15 I I 


I
Faulkner sentenced in fraud case I 
I 
FOR RENT  
....___________.  NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE  
Nice 2-bedroom apartment by  CALL JOE X1760  
Tippecanoe Place. $350. w/heat.  
609 W. Washington, 232-7861.  I NEED NO FOOTBALL  
TICKETS.272-6306  
2 Bed 'n Breakfast rooms. 1 mi.  
from campus -$75 a night, no  
smoking or drinking. Excellent  
neighborhood. 272-0128.  Please Help Please Help  
2 night stays preferred.  My father would greatly appreciate  
any GAs to any games. And yes,  
3 BEDRM FURNISHED, 922  he knows that the tickets are going  
NOTRE DAME. 288-3942 OR 289­ at high prices. Mike at x1161  
6146 AFTER AUG. 27.  
Room for rent in safe neighborhood  
3 miles from campus. Phone,  
water, cat-petting privileges  
included. $275 plus half electric.  
Call Susan 271-0413.  I WILL BUY YOUR TICKET  
APPLICATION$$  
Share 2-BR Home with Male Grad  283-1161 Michael  
Student. $260 plus phone. Jeff  
288-3878 Leave a message.  
need somebody to sublet my trtle  WANTED: 2 TlX NO-MICH. WILL  
creek apt(furnished studio);call  PAY. CALL 904-630-6346. I'LL  
Kevin at 273-8434  CALL BACK ON MY WATS.­ 
CHUCK WHITE.  
Roommate needed for Oak Hill  
condo. All utilities included. Rent  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2  

i 
l 
I 
MESA, Ariz. (AP) -Arizona State junior forward Jamal Faulkner was sentenced to 30 days in jail Thursday for failing to meet terms of probation im­posed in a fraud conviction and could be forced to withdraw from the university. 
Faulkner, 21, who left a sec­tion of New York legendary for its toughness to star in this desert setting, broke down as the sentence was passed. He was still sobbing when he was taken from the courtroom to begin the jail term that will end Sept. 26. 
The sentence apparently ended the 6-foot-7 forward's opportunity to attend school this fall and remain eligible .for the 1992-93 season. Faulkner's last chance may be a sentence review scheduled for Wednesday by Judge Steven Sheldon of Maricopa County Superior Court. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Female student seeks roommates One Way Plane Ticket!!! to share a 3 bdr townhouse 2mls To Seattle via Mpls/St Paul Sept 1 from NO. Call Karen 239-5608/ Must Sell Only $80. x4174. 
'SENIORS' NORTHWESTERN ROADTRIP 
SEPT 4-5 
includes: 
BUS TICKET 
SECOND CITY TICKET 
HOTEL DOWNTOWN 
$65 
Purchase @ LaFortune info desk 
THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE IS AVAILABLE FOR CREDIT, see p.43,all student levels,no overload. Information call ex6211/288-4919. 
MATH TUTOF-1-AII levels-
Lost and Found 
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET, LINKED CHAIN, WITH THE NAME NICOLE ON THE TOP AND A HEART CHARM ATIACHED. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT NIKI VOELZ AT 244 KNOTI, PHONE 4945. 
LOST: BLACK CARRYALL BAG. 
It contains my VISA, glasses, and many other things important to me. If found, please take to International Student Organization on the second floor of LaFortune. 
LOST: set of keys on round blue and gold NO keychain at Bridget's on Tuesday night. Please call Christine or Mary x2297 ASAP!!! 
..FOUND'' THREE KEYS FOUND BY STEPAN COURTS. LOOK LIKE DORM KEYS. CALL KATH X2907. 
Coach Bill Frieder, who lost a player to knee surgery Monday and suspended another Wednesday, declined comment as he left the courtroom. 
He had told Sheldon earlier that missing just a few classes can ruin grades at Arizona State, where attendance is taken in about 7 5 percent of the classes. 
An appeal would not work because of the lag time, defense lawyer William Friedl said. 
Faulkner was jailed for missing six meetings with his probation officer. 
Asked earlier how a month in jail would affect Faulkner, as­sistant coach George McQuarn said: "He'd have to withdraw from the university." 
"'He literally would lose the year," McQuarn added. "It would affect the abilities of the Arizona State University bas­ketball team somewhat, but it 
I 
certainly would hurt Jamal in I I terms of his career goals, be­
I 
cause it would affect him in the 
I
eyes of the NBA." 
I I 
Faulkner, Dwayne Fontana, l Stevin Smith and Lynn Collins I each had pleaded guilty to a I felony charge involving $13,474 I 
I
worth of long-distance calls 
I
billed to McQuarn's credit card 
I
from August 1990 to September 1991. 
l 
The charge was left undesig­nated and may be reduced to a misdemeanor after completion of the two-year probation Sheldon ordered on April 6. The judge also ordered the players to make restitution and to perform 100 hours of com­munity service work. 
None of Faulkner's team­mates have had problems with the requirements. 
271-1486 
COMPUTER: Epson Equity dual PLEASE! Help me. I need two GA's floppy, monitor, printer. $550 or for Michigan. $$ X3762 offer. Lv msg for David at 239-6963 
SITIER TO CARE FOR 6 AND MAC CLASSIC 9-YR-OLD;TUES. AND WEDS. WITH EXT. KEYBOARD AND 2:15-4 OR 5PM. MUST HAVE OWN MUCH SOFTWARE TRANSPORTATION CALL JOHN AT 271-2908 (ABOUT 3M I FROM ND).CALL JANET 271-9934 
I I.___T_IC_K_ET_s____, 
negotiable. Call Jon or Mark at MICHIGAN GA'S. WILL OFFER 
I FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL LISA (COLLECT) AT (509) 534-4227. 
WANTED ­
272-8563. 
SELLING 4 TIX TO NORTHWESTERN GAME -FACE VALUE. CONTACT: CATHIE 312­876-7729. 
OAKHILL CONDO -2 BAS, 2 Baths, 1,170 sq.ft., fireplace, spiral TWO USC TICKETS FOR SALE 
staircase to loft/den. 1 car garage. 
CALL AMY @ 272-6264ROOMMATE..I'm looking for a 
Walk to NO. $77,500. Call Coldwell 
roommate to share a two bedroom 
Banker, 277-8000 or Ruth Ann 
FOR· SALE: 1 MICH. STUD. TICapartment two miles from campus. 
Smith 288-8875. 
1 NORWST GA. X1803 AFTRcost 200$/month. "l"am a swedish 6PM.
grad student.phone: 2395608,ask 
Full size futon (frame and cushion) 
for Ragnar or 2725740. 1 0-speed woman bike $$$ PAY LOTS of MONEY $$$CHILD CARE NEEDED: Every For Many MICH TIX!! 
Tuesday 2:15-8:15 pm. 2 boys, 8 & For details, call 27.1-8418 
Call ED at X100211. Call Prof. Hall @ 288-3034. 
STAINMASTER RUG, 7FT. SQ. 
PLEASE SELL ME ONE BYU GA!! 
PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA NOW HIRING 
ROSE W/GRAY BORDER. LIKE 
CATHERINE @ X2849Full-time and Part-time Drivers and NEW. $150.287-9875. 
Inside Help. Flexible Schedules. 
Need two tickets for Stanford gameCall 271-1177 today for more 
***********CARPETS********** 
next to each other. Please call 283­
information or apply in person at ...........CARPETS.......... 
GOLF. Thanx!
54533 Terrace Lane ( nex1 to 
...********CARPETS********** 
Subway) off SA 23 across from the 
***********FOR SALE****'****** 
!HELP! My little bro & his 3 friends new super Video Watch. Drivers 
In excellent condition and very 
are flying out from NY and I need car, license and insurance. 
cheap. 
REALLY need to get them 4 Mich. 
Please call 289-5563. 
tickets! PLEASE HELP! call Julie MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE x4042FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE 
Loft for SALE, price neog., Call Beth 
FA I ENOL Y, WITH EXPERIENCE at 283-2689 ST. MARY'S STUDENT BOOKAND OWN CAR. PART TIME AVAIL. KRISTIN 277-6274 DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­
VCR for SALE, Call Beth at 283­
2201. 
2689 Dad needs 2 GAs for Stanford. 
He's willing to pay big$$$. Call 
Chris A. at x1179. 
Desparately Need 5 Purdue and 2 Penn State GA's. Call Dan at 273-1497 
$$ I Need MICH TIX!! $$ please please please please Call Dennis @ 283-1577 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$ $$$1 DEPERATELY N E E 0 6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$ please, please, please, please 
CALL X2454 
HELP A SENIOR! Need 4-5 GEN or STD tkt for U MICH. Last Hope for family! Tim @289-5196 
Will pay big bucks for NO -MICH 
G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561. 
I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S 
DESPERATELY WILL PAY CALL MIKE AT X 2209 
WANT TO MAKE A BUCK? I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO AT x3587. 
$$$$ NEED 3 MICH TIX! CALL KIRSTIN X4281 
HELP!! Need 1 MICH GA Call Scott at x4243 Good price 
NEED 1 STUD. MICH. TIC. CALL SEAN 283-1303. 
PLEASE PLEASE. I NEED MICH. GA'S. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM, OR 272-3753 AFTER 5. SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL. 
NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 708­251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR MARK RUST AT 708-982-1776. 
I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS I HAVE MONEY! CALL SUSAN 289-6485 
NEED 2 MICH GA'S! I'll be honest, I can't afford huge prices. Thanks! Call Judy, 239-6515. 
NEED TIX TO ND-MICH x3373 
FREE MONEY If you can provide me with 5-10 MICH GAs for 5th year reunion Call Jeff @ 283-3306 
Let's be honest, our parents aren't dying and yes, they have already seen an NO game, but they would like to see another. If you have any extra Michigan tickets, student or GA, please call Christine or Mary at x2297 Thanks! 
NEED MICHIGAN GAs WILL BEAT ANY OFFER PLEASE HELP KYLE 234 9433 
ALUM NEEDS TIX FOR MICH., STANFORD, PENN ST. CALL DAN (312) 868-0009. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Will pay crazy cash for NO -Michigan GA's. Call Paul at 289-6648. 
Badly Need MICHIGAN Tix!ll! Please Call 273-1758 Ask for Doug 
DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET JUST ONE!I Student or GA. Call Tim x4116 
4 sets G.A.s For SALE! 272-7034 
PERSONAL 
FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00, Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners welcome. First meeting September 1st. Equipment provided. $80 per semester. 
TEC TEC TEENS ENCOUNTER CHRIST IN SOUTH BEND AREA ARE VERY HAPPY TO WELCOME NOTRE DAME/ST. MARY'S STUDENTS WHO WISH TO JOIN US HERE. CALL 277-2535. 
$$$MICHIGAN$$$ I WILL PAY LARGE SUMS OF$$$ FOR G.A.'s & STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX PLEASE, PLEASE HELP ME $ $ $ CALL x 2 4 5 4 $ $ $ 
HeyNiff 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center Now open even LATER!!! Mon·Thur 7:30am-Midnight Fri 7:30am-7:00pm Sat Noon-6:00pm 
Sun Noon-Midnight 
DJs,DJs,DJs,DJs, DJs,DJs,DJs: Student Activities is hiring DJs tor the LaFortune Ballroom. All those interested should apply at 315 LaFortune-if you applied at the end of last year and still want to be a OJ, you should reapply. 
I'm looking for a student to help me clean my big, old house on Friday afternoons. I can provide transportation. $12 per week, around 2 1/2 hours. Call234-4498 evenings. 
CATHERINE FUNSTON turns 21 tomorrow!!!!!!!!!! This will definitely be a STAR EXPERIENCE !!!I! Happy Birthday Roomie! Love, Col 
To the Lodge crew-the couch looks great. Sitting on the floor is highly under-rated, anyway. Thanks tor your help-pshaw. J&D :) 
Hey!! Do You Play Drums?? 
Well then give us a hand. Call Rob at 1441 and help us start an original band. Thanks for reading this, good night. 
I thought I would say hello to my buddy. 
CHISEL'CHISEL 'CHISEL 
We need a BASS player. 
Wanna stick it to the man? Learn how to play, record, and sell your own product without THEIR help! 
CALL: 289-4278 TODAY!!! 
To ALL students in last semester's PHIL 302: If you need any help or just someone to talk to, I'm STILL here for you in carrel #828 -T.H. 
SHORT ON CASH ? 
Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest 
K­I'VE FOUND A MASTERPIECE IN YOU, SO LET'S SET THE NIGHT TO MUSIC. IF WE CAN AVOID SLURPING RACOONS AND BREAKABLE PITCHERS, I THINK WE CAN MAKE IT THROUGH ANOTHER YEAR. HAPPY ANNI­VERSARY, SWEETHEART. I LOVE YOU VERY MUCH. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY WHITNEY!!! TOO BAD YOU'RE STUCK HERE! -THE BIG 0 NIGHT STAFF!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SOFIA!! 
I HATE MY JOB!!! 
HI RICHIE RICH AND JOEY RILEY!!! JOE RILEY IS A STUDDDD 
No gain.No pain. 
Keeping your weight at a 
moderate level may scale 
down your risk of heart at­
tack. So maintain a healthy 
diet and lighten up on your 
heart. 

/aAmerican Heart
V Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 
lOUR LIFE 
• 
Former Irish kicker makes cut 
SAN DIEGO (AP)-New San Diego Chargers coach Bobby Ross made the right call on his kicker. Now he's got to pick a quarterback. 
John Carney kicked three field goals, including a go­ahead 50-yarde~ and Stan Humphries threw two second­half touchdown passes as the Chargers beat the Los Angeles Rams 30-19 Thursday night. San Diego finished the exhibi­tion season 2-2 and the Rams 3­
1. 
Carney missed field goal tries of 38 and 47 yards in a 20-14 loss to the San Francisco 49ers a week ago. But it was 12th­round draft pick Carlos Huerta who got the boot on Tuesday as the roster was reduced to 60 players. 
The Chargers were forced to punt from the Rams' 37 with the game tied 13-13 in the third quarter. The Rams were caught with 12 men on the field, giving the Chargers a fourth-and-11 on the 32. The ball was spotted on the dirt baseball infield, just inside the turf, but Carney had no trouble kicking it through the uprights. 

and 28 and 14 to Anthony Miller on successive plays. Rod Bernstine capped it with a 1­yard TD run. 
Carney kicked his 27-yarder on the third drive, and Humphries came on late in the second quarter and led the Chargers on a 72-yard drive capped by Carney's 38-yard field goal for a 13-3 lead. 
Backup quarterback Mike Pagel led the Rams to two quick scores for a 13-13 tie. 
The Rams closed to 13-10 on a 41-yard pass from Pagel to Kinchen as time expired in the first half. Pagel was 4 for 4 for 75 yards on the drive. 
The Rams took the second­half kickoff and Pagel moved them 66 yards, with free agent Steve Domingos kicking a 31­yard field goal. 
Pagel completed 13 of 22 passes for 17 4 yards. He also threw a 12-yard scoring pass to Kinchen with 41 seconds left in the game. 
Rams starter Jim Everett was 7 for 13 for 62 yards. 
photo courtesy of Notre Dame sports information 
Former Notre Dame kicker John Carney beat out former University of Miami star Carlos Huerta for the kicking duties in San Diego.
Tennesee's Majors recovers from surgery 
calls or visitors. "There have been a great number of calls about him," she 
Patty-
said. "People say they don't know him personally but are 
Your Talents Never Cease to An1aze! thinking about him and wish him well." 
This season marks Majors' 25th as a head coach and 15th at his alma mater. 
Assistant coach Phillip Fulmer has taken over in Majors' absence. Fulmer is keeping the team on its regular schedule leading to the season opener Sept. 5 against Southwestern Louisiana. 
Happy 21st Birthday Love Elena & Kristin 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) ­Tennessee football coach Johnny Majors' condition was upgraded again Thursday, two days after quintuple heart by­pass surgery. 
Majors, 57, is "continuing to make normal progress," ac­cording to a statement from the University of Tennessee Medical Center. 
He had recovered enough to move from the hospital's open­heart unit to a private room, hospital spokeswoman Lisa McNeal said. 
The coach's condition was upgraded from "serious but 
(219) 277-7482 
10" Houseplanrs 3 for $39 Fresh Cut Flower­Delivery Worldwide Weddings & 
Special·Occasions 
lnteriorscaping & 
Maintenance 
.. 
15065 St. Rd. 23 Granger. IN 46530 
Carney, who kicked a team­record 54-yarder last season, had field goals of 27 and 38 yards in the second quarter as San Diego built a 13-3 lead. 
Ross must decide between Humphries and Bob Gagliano as his starting quarterback. 
Humphries was acquired from the Washington Redskins on Aug. 13, five days after starter John Friesz suffered a season-ending knee injury in the exhibition opener. Humphries relieved Gagliano for the second straight week and threw a 23-yard touchdown pass to Ronnie Harmon with 
1:44 left in the third quarter. 
Darren Carrington recovered Todd Kinchen's fumble on the ensuing kickoff, and Humphries threw a 4-yard scoring pass to Walter Stanley. 
Humphries completed 11 of 16 passes for 118 yards. Gagliano, making his third start, was 6 for 8 for 90 yards in his three drives. 
Gagliano moved the Chargers 80 yards in nine plays on the opening drive, including passes of 21 yards to Ronnie Harmon 
stable" to simply "stable," the hospital's highest patient con­dition category, McNeal said. 
No decision had been made on when Majors can leave the hospital. Doctors said initially the hospital stay could last seven to 10 days. 
Preparations were under way for a giant get-well card to the coach. Fans can sign the bill­board-sized card at East Towne Mall on Saturday. It will be erected on the Tennessee cam­pus Monday. 
McNeal said Majors hasn't been allowed to have flowers, 


1 12:15-12:45 
2  4:00-5:00  
3  4:20-5:20  
4  5:t5-6:15  
5  5:20-6:;!0  
6  6:45-7:45  
7  9:00-t 0:00  

8 12:15-12:45 
9 4:00-5:00 10 4:15-5:15 II 4:00-5:00 12 5:20-6:20 15 5:20-6:20 t4 9:00-10:00 
t 5 4:00-5:00 
t 6 9:00-10:00 
Beg Step Reroblcs Room 219 Rockne High Intensity Gym I .JACC Step Reroblcs Gym 2 JRCC Combo Reroblcs Gym I .JRCC High Intensity Room 501 Rockne Wet"r Reroblcs Pool Rolfs Combo Reroblcs Room 501 Rockne 
TUESDAY I THURSDAY 
Water aerobics Pool Rolfs High Intensity &ym I JRCC Step Aerobics &ym 2 .JRCC step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne Step Aerobics Room 219 Rockne Stretcherclse Gym I JRCC Combo/runt Room 501 Roctne 
FRIDAY Combo Aerobics Gym t JRCC 
SUNDRY Combo Reroblcs Room 301 Rockne 
Rll classes ere co-ed. Men ere encouraged to participate. 
The cost for classes meeting 2 days per weelc Is S 15 a semester. 
The cost for classes meeting I day per week I• $10 e seme•ter. The cost for 112 Hour classes Is S t 0 e semester. Cleues begin September 2nd 


c==;==~~~

Student fares. 
r ·s students. Hacienda 
N t oame and St. Ma y . d would \i\<.e to Welcome home. y~~~ac\<. in south Bend aQ;';e::eshments in is pleased to see the best meal deals an 
. d you that for 
remm to Hacienda. 
town. come home 
,.,, n -our famous $2 95 
,,,o . ·to rsmaller) ·········· . 
Wet Burn ' 
1\.les _Choice of any . :to CombO with nee ..$2.95
Burn .. .
and soup or chi1I .............. . 
Wed. -Soft Shell Beef Taco $2.95 with rice and beans ······ · · · · · · · 
Thurs. _Beef Enchilada $2.95 with rice and beans · · · · · · · · · · · · 
F . _Seafood Enchilada .
$2.95!thrice and beans ············· h se of you over 21 , don t d d * And for t o 
. re always inclu e · hments. FREE chips n sauce a reat daily specials on refres ------:-;.:--;-,---~ 
forget we also have g ­south aeod 
h Waka scottsdale Mall
Mis a. R'dge Plala t Indian I zgt -2566
Grape Rd. az77-t3tB 33 at tOO Center IUS · · 1 ne~·i-n:or~de:rs_o~n:y.1
ZS9=-=85=4~t~-~~----·;o~ 

t H
0
\\Of(\e acie 
"''l:~).qq
0:\~.. • -.~
(;""'~
~H.. aMEXCICAN.IRBI1ESTAURANTda 
· <!)Hacienda Mexican Res\a'Jca~ts -·1992 
....----~--~ 
----~-----~­
Friday, August 28, 1992 The Observer Page 17 
Minnesota going from first to worst 

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -Worst to first in '91. Champs to chumps in '92. 
The 1\vins are collapsing and they don't know why. 
"We should break out of it," Chuck Knoblauch says. "You'd think we have the perfect equation: Pitching, hitting, de­fense, managing." 
You'd think so. You'd be wrong. 
You hear Kent Hrbek say, "We're not getting the itty, bitty breaks we were two months ago," and you shake your head. 
Bad breaks haven't dropped lead in the AL West on July 27 to six behind Oakland. 
Neither have bad bounces, bad umpiring, bad karma or bad guacamole. 
The Twins, defending World Series champions, are simply playing bad baseball. 
Starting with the night of July 27, when Oakland beat them 9­1, through Wednesday, when they struggled to beat Detroit 1­0, the 1\vins have lost 19 of 29 games. Oakland swept them. So did Chicago. So did Cleveland. They lost two at home to Texas, two at home to Detroit and Seattle. 

Everyone wants to know what's wrong with the 1\vins. 
"I have no answers," Knoblauch said. "You could stab me till I bleed to death and I'd have no idea. No clue. No answer. Everybody's trying hard. Everybody's playing hard. It's just not happening." 
Said Brian Harper: "I don't know. We're trying. We just can't get anything to go right." 
A month ago the 1\vins were 60-38 and seemingly without weaknesses. They were hitting .283, had outscored their op­ponents 493-372 and had a 
3.47 ERA. 
They had only 57 errors in 98 games. Their fundamentals ­baserunning, hitting behind runners and throwing to the right bases -were almost flawless. 
The MVP award was ready to be engraved with Kirby Puckett's name. Manager Tom Kelly was being hailed as Everyman's Genius. 
In short, the Twins looked unbeatable. Now? Beatable. Very, very heatable. 
In the 29 games since July 27, they have been outscored 145­110 and outhomered 26-17. Their ERA is 4.73 -including 
5. 90 for relievers, who have blown three saves in seven chances. 
They have committed 19 errors. The heart of the order is crippling the offense. Kent Hrbek is batting .172. Chili Davis hasn't homered and has knocked in only five runs. 

Rain delayed LPGA Challenge begins a day late 
NAPERVILLE, Ill. (AP) ­Financial considerations lost out to quality of play, so the LPGA Challenge will start a day late after torrential rain this week left its venue a sopping mess. 
"It's better to let the course drain and play a 54-hole tour­nament," the event's director, Ron Koewler, said Thursday after announcing that the day's first round was cancelled. 
"Obviously, it hurts finan­cially, but it's better for it to happen now than on Saturday," he said. "Thursday's tickets will be honored Friday." 
There was no way for the competitors to haVe an equal chance Thursday, Koewler ex­plained. He said it would not have been fair to have some of the competitors play nine holes under adverse conditions Thursday with others teeing off at 5 p.m. 
"It will take five to six hours of little rain for the course to drain," Koewler said. "The tees and the greens are fine, but there is too much standing water in the landing areas." 
Also, there is so much casual water that players would have been forced to move their balls 25 to 30 yards, and that would change their shots drastically. 
The same starting pairings will be used Friday, but they will be changed for Saturday's round. The cut to the top 70 and ties will be made after Saturday's round, and the final round will be Sunday. 
The tournament is the first major event at the White Eagle Golf Club that opened three years ago. The club was de­signed by Arnold Palmer. 
Koewler said the problem started when there was more than an inch of rain Tuesday night. That forced the pro-am to be cut to nine holes Wednesday. 
Another quarter of an inch of rain Wednesday night and early Thursday forced the can­cellation. 
Dottie Mochrie, on a roll and as the leading money winner on the tour, will be among the favorites. 
Mochrie has won three tour­naments this year, including the Dinah Shore, a major, and has been second three times. All that has earned her more than Mochrie said Wednesday while $600,000 this season and preparing for the tournament pushed her career earnings to that carries a top prize of $1.58 million, 16th on the all­$67,500. "My goals are scoring time list. average, birdies per round and 
"I have no money goals," Player of the Year points. 
"Money is a by-product of all that. I am more golf-oriented than money-oriented." 
The course will play to 6,27 4 yards with a par of 36-36-72. 

HOLLYWOOD. EVERYTHING YOU'VE HEARD IS TRUE! 
"A masterpiece! One of the smartest, funn~ most pt!lletrating movies about moviemakilg ever made a...great big, fuimy fikri that's going to ring bels, 
1 
' 
H:N'OCK SOCKS O::E'::E' 
throw people for loops, aid il general aeate the commotion of the yeaf" 
The Observer 
r "WickedlyFUiiiil! 
I'UYIIOY MAGAllN£, NEW WOMAH 
Systems Department is hiring for 
"Hilcrious and Deadly, 
the paid position of:
WONDERFULLY SUBVERSIVE 
Typesetter
•..this movie is nothing if not fun." 
---Omd -.NEWSWEIJ( 01!112_1Joo_C.,.II...... ­
If any questions, please contact 
CtNEM.A .A'.. THE SNtTE 
Patrick Barth @ 239-7471 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 , 9:45 
APphoto Amy Alcott is one of many female golfers beginning the LPGA Challenge today. The tournament was delayed due to harsh weather. 
••1HEFAMIIY SLICGESTS 11--W 
MEMORIAL 
CCNTRIBLfTIONS 
BE MADE TO THE 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
~IETY•• 
-words that mean people want to honor a loved one and want to help conquer cancer. Send a Memorial Gift to your local ACS Urut. 

~ ---------~~~~~----­
Page 18 The Observer Friday, August 28, 1992 

Blue Jays acquire Cone from Mets for season ending run 
TORONTO (AP)-The first-place Toronto Blue Jays are trying something that worked for them last year. 
That's when they acquired pitcher Tom Candiotti for the 1991 pennant run. The Blue Jays hope David Cone will help them win the AL East title and even more this year. 
Neither the Baltimore Orioles nor the Milwaukee Brewers were giving up their pennant drives after learning Toronto had acquired Cone, one of baseball's premier pitchers, from the New York Mets on Thursday. 
"I congratulate them on making a trade," Orioles general manager Roland Hemond said from his Baltimore office. "It's a good move on their part. David Cone is a good pitcher." 
The 29-year-old Cone, a free agent at the end of the season, leads the National League in strik'eouts with 214. He's 13-7 with a 2.88 earned-run average. Toronto gave up rookie in­fielder Jeff Kent and a player to be named later. 
''I'm somewhat disappointed simply because we're trying to catch those guys," said Sal Bando, senior vice-president of baseball operations for the Brewers. 
"I totally understand. I'd have done the same thing if I was in (Toronto GM) Pat Gillick's position." 
The Blue Jays, two games up on Baltimore and 4 1/2 in front of Milwaukee heading into Thursday's game with the Brewers, made the trade because their starters have been struggling. 
"Our problem has been starting pitching," said Gillick. "We really should be up by more than two games. 
"We've really kept the Orioles and the Brewers in this thing." 
Before trading for Cone, the Blue Jays were also interested in acquiring Bruce Hurst from San Diego. Now the Oakland 1\s may go after Hurst. 
Toronto has the current four-game home series remaining with Milwaukee and a three-game set against the Orioles in Baltimore late next month. 
Cone will pitch Saturday against the Brewers. 
"I think if you ask people in New York or Los Angeles, they know that what you have on paper and the money you spend doesn't guarantee a winner," said Bando. 
"It does shore up their pitching. I'd rather be in Toronto's position than in ours." 
Hemond conceded nothing. 
"This game has to be played between the white lines," said Hemond. "Only time will tell. Things don't always work out like you expect. 'We've held our own. Our being in the race all year likely forced them to make that trade." 
Toronto has made a habit of trading for pitchers late in the season, with varying degrees of success. In 1987, the Jays were duelling Detroit for the East. Toronto got knuckleballer Phil Niekro from Cleveland, but he didn't work out. Then they got Mike Flanagan from the Orioles. 
But Detroit acquired Doyle Alexander from Atlanta and he went 11-1 as the Tigers overtook the Toronto in the final week. In return, the Tigers sent John Smoltz, then a minor-league prospect, to the Braves. 
"Doyle Alexander helped Detroit win in '87," said Hemond. "But John Smaltz helped Atlanta last year and they'll probably win their division again this year." 
In 1989, Toronto got lefty Bud Black from Cleveland. The Jays won the East but lost in the playoffs to Oakland. Black subsequently signed with San Francisco as a free agent. 
Feggins won't return to Wolfpack squad until January 
RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) -North Carolina State forward Bryant Feggins, who sustained nerve damage after being shot this spring, won't return to the Wolfpack team before January, coach Les Robinson said Thursday. 
Feggins, who missed last season after injuring his left knee, isn't enrolled this semester. 
Robinson said the 6-foot-6, 238-pound Feggins fell behind in four courses because of the April shooting incident in Greensboro. Feggins, a junior, will spend the next few months completing 12 credit hours he needs to become eligible for the second semester. 
Feggins was shot in the right shoulder on the North Carolina A&T campus after he and friends went to Greensboro to buy concert tickets. Feggins told police he accidently bumped into someone, who asked for an apology. When Feggins refused and kept walking, the person shot him. 
Police have yet to change anyone in the shooting. Feggins, who averaged 13.3 
STUDY GROUP SURVIVAL KIT 

The next time you have the gang over to study, be sure you're properly equipped with a "Study Group Survival Kit.• You can build your own kit (selection above) at your neighborhood I Can't Believe It's Yogurf store. It's guaranteed to get you through your studies with a smile on your taste! 
1635 Edison Rd. • South Bend (2 blocks east of N.D. StadlumJ 

"Look for our weekly coupon~ every Friday"' 
..... ''-"" .............. 1M. 
r---------------------­
-----~ 
BUY ONE, GET ONE FREEl : 
LARGE CUP OR CONE. :
_....,'"""'!""__,...,.I 
I Please present coupon before ordering. One: ~~I I coupon per customer per visit. Offer good only __I I et address e~. Not Ylllld In combination with I I lrtf other offer. ElcpiN:s ::; 9/4/92 .-.,...,...._.,.-u& I
I_-------_----_------------____I 
points and 5.2 rebounds during his sophomore season two years ago, was in good aca­demic standing before the in­jury, Robinson said. 
September 5 September 8 September 12 September 13 September 18 September 20 September 25 September 28 October 2 October 4 October 7 October 9 October 14 October 17 October 20 October 23 October 25 October 30 November 1 
at N.C. State at Butler vs. Wisc.-Green Bay vs. Rutgers at Michigan State DAYTON DUKE PORTLAND vs. Wisconsin vs. Stanford LOYOLA CINCINNATI KENTUCKY at Southern Methodist at Texas Christian LASALLE PROVIDENCE at Xavier 
at Wright State 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

Hours: Mon,Sat 9 , 9 Sun 12 , 5 272..6710 

• Friday, August 28, 1992 The Observer 


Aggies think big after opening win 

Barna's Palmer battling off-field difficulties 
COLUMBIANA, Ala. (AP) ­Alabama wide receiver David Palmer turned his focus to football after a judge granted him youthful offender status in his drunken driving case. 
The decision, made on Wednesday by Shelby County District Court Judge Ron Jackson, all but closed the book on Palmer's June 6 arrest after a two-car wreck. Records in youthful offender cases are sealed under state law. 
....---------------------------,as a youthful offender, any 
Say you saw us in The Observer 
Haircuts $6.00 
with Student 1.0. 
277,0057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 
Palmer was scheduled to go to court Monday, but his attor­ney asked for an expedited hearing, which moved his case up to Wednesday. 
The ninth-ranked Crimson Tide opens the season Sept. 5 against Vanderbilt. Palmer's attorney, Rodger Smitherman of Birmingham, said Palmer can now begin "focusing on the classroom and his football." 
''I'm glad the situation is coming to a head," Smitherman 
fines, court costs or other pun-
STOP SMOKING DO IT OUT OF RESPECT FOR THE DEAD. AIID THE LIVING. 
said. "Sometimes you never know what can come up in the court system, but right now I don't see anything else that should keep David from getting on with his school and football." 
Palmer, 19, faced drunken driving charges after he rear­ended a pickup truck. A breath test showed he had a blood al­cohol level of 0.236 percent, more than twice the legal limit of 0.10 percent, state troopers said. 
He is expected to be treated like any first-time offender but made me want to play hard against them," said England, who led the Aggies with five tackles and three assists. "I think we're smart enough to play with anybody." 
And, possibly, good enough to slice through a schedule that includes only one more team (No. 25 Texas) ranked in the preseason poll.' 
Texas A&M returns 16 starters, including four all-SWC performers, from a team that went 10-2 last year and won the conference title. But the Aggies' chances of winning a national title may hinge on sophomore quarterback Jeff Granger, a major-league pitching prospect who gave up football after last season but rejoined the Aggies after failing to make the U.S. Olympic baseball team. 
Granger, a backup last year to team leader Bucky Richardson, got off to a rough start Wednesday night. But after being benched for several series in the third quarter, Granger came back in the final period, tied the game with a 21-yard TD pass and set up the winning field goal with a spectacular 33­yard run. 
"Jeff Granger is a baseball player and just like in baseball, if a pitcher is not doing well, you pull him out," A&M coach 
R.C. Slocum said. "In football, we can put him back in the game. I thought he was more focused when he got back in there." 
Two Aggie starters injured against Stanford apparently won't be back for A&M's next game, Sept. 5 at LSU. Flanker Brian Mitchell broke his left foot and safety Steve Kenney hurt ishment will not be revealed. 
"The youthful offender mechanism is pretty much an every day occurrence," Shelby County District Attorney Mike Campbell said. "It is available to persons 21 years of age or under, male or female. And if the individual receives youthful offender status, there are cer­tain legal restrictions they must abide by. 
"If they don't, they have to come back to court and they can lose their youthful offender status." 
Palmer had no comment on the hearing, referring all ques­tions to Smitherman. The at­torney said he was barred from divulging what was discussed in Wednesday's hearing. 
Alabama coach Gene Stallings has refused to speculate on any possible disciplinary action that Palmer might face. Palmer has been practicing with the Tide since the varsity returned Aug. 11, but he did not participate in a scrimmage on Wednesday. 
his left knee. 
The damage to Stanford may be more psychological than physical. 
Instead of confusing the op­position with its sophisticated system, the Cardinal con­founded everyone with its of­fensive futility in the second half. Stanford didn't make a first down in the third quarter and gained only 78 yards after intermission. 
"It doesn't take a genius to see that we weren't moving the ball," said quarterback Steve Stenstrom, sacked five times and intercepted twice in the game. "We need to be more sound in our execution." 
One "genius" who recognizes the problem is Walsh, the 
····· 
Page 19 
" 
former San Francisco 49ers coach still readjusting to the college game after a 14-year hiatus. 
"We have to learn more about 
· our players," he said. "We have to develop a bigger running back who can run inside more effectively and we have to get our receivers down the field a little better." 
Stanford must improve in order to post a second straight winning season for the first time since Walsh coached there in 1977-78. The Cardinal has road games at No. 2 Washington, No. 3 Notre Dame, No. 18 UCLA and No. 20 California plus a home date with Southern Cal, which has lost to Stanford only once since 1976. 
Kelly 
continued from page 24 
next Thursday to determine the fate of Vmcent. 
Although it is unlikely the owners will vote to remove Vincent, the incident has fur­ther tarnished baseball's im­age. 
Most of us can't remember when baseball wasn't a slave to financial concerns. It has been and always will be a business, but the only event of true im­portance happens between the lines, and the owners are blur­ring the view with selfish con­cerns. 
Fay Vincent has and-if given the chance-will continue to do what is best for the game of baseball. 
But the owners may hand him his walking papers. 
Where do I apply? 
FRIENDS 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) ­When Texas A&M beat Stanford in the Pigskin Classic, the victory was overshadowed by Bill Walsh's return to college coaching. 
Soon, however, the No. 7 Aggies could be stepping out of the shadows and into the spot­light of a national championship race. 
With a favorable schedule, a potentially dominating defense and a desire to quiet critics of the much-maligned Southwest Conference, Texas A&M ap­pears poised to make a run for No.1. 
Although the Aggies' offense sputtered Wednesday night in their 10-7 victory over No. 17 Stanford, their "Wrecking Crew" defense demolished Walsh's intricate Cardinal at­tack. 
Nose guard Eric England said Walsh gave him extra motiva­tion by stating in a pregame news conference that his play­ers were generally smarter than their opponents. 
"When he said that, it really 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
CIRCULATION DRIVERS 
Get paid to tour ND/SMC campuses at lunch! 
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 
Attention OFF--CAMPUS Students 
First Football Practice will be Monday, August 31 5:00p.m. Stepan Field 
Anyone interested in playing or coaching any off, campus sports contact Keith McKeon at 273,2514 
DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK 
..---------------~----~-------------~­
The Observer Page 20 
Beck shoots bogey-free round on way to two stroke advantage 

AKRON, Ohio (AP) -Chip Beck withdrew from a tourna­ment to practice for the World Series of Golf. 
And it paid off. 
'I wanted to be prepared," he explained. "I wanted to learn the course and the greens. I'm glad I spent the two extra days here." 
The two additional practice sessions helped produce a bo­gey-free, S-under-par 65 that gave him a two-stroke lead Thursday in the weather-inter­rupted first round of this $1.4 million event. 
Included in those 65 strokes 
par-savers on four of the last
.. 
five holes at the Firestone Country Club. 
Obviously benefitting from those added practice sessions, as well as an early tee time that got him off before the greens spiked up, Beck used only 11 putts on the back nine. 
Beck arrived in Akron Sunday night, a full two days early, in order to prepare for the tournament that brings to­gether 45 title-winners from around the world. 
To do that, he had to with­draw from a commitment to play in an unofficial, two-day tournament in Oregon early this week.\ 
"I wanted to have a lit­tle better shot at it here," said Beck, who secured his place in the elite field with a victory in New Orleans earlier this year. 
"Half my game is prepara­tion," said Beck, who last year became only the second man in PGA Tour history to record a 
59. "It's important for me to be prepared. It's different for every 

APphoto Leader Chip Beck looks to maintain his two stroke lead going into today's second round. 
Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
See them two way\ELECTRIC... THEN ACOUSTIC!' 

individual, but for me it's preparation: that's what it takes for me." 
Today, however, it may take some help from the weather­man. The forecast calls for 90 percent chance of rain, possibly heavy, and thunderstorms from the remnants of Hurricane Andrew. 
The international field got a little preview of the possible problems with a one-hour, 35­minute thunderstorm delay late Thursday afternoon. 
Masters champion Fred Couples, playing in the final twosome with U.S. Open title­holder Tom Kite, was among those held up and wrapped up his 67 only moments before darkness fell. 
Despite his second-place standing in a tournament that offers $252,000 to the winner, Couples said he was still well short of the form that produced three victories early this year. 
"This is just one round. I'm far from getting it back," Couples said. "I have a lot of work ahead of me." 
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship invites you to a PICNIC 2:30p.m., Sunday, August 30 meet at Main Circle, reides to Potawatami Park 1st group meeting 7:30p.m., Wed., Sept. 2 Siegfried Chapel Questions, Call Kevin at x1384 or Lisa at x4290  


Catch the Action! 
August 29 September 5 September 6 September 9 September 11 September 15 September 18 September 20 September 25 September 29 October 2 October 4 October 7 October 11 October 17 October 20 October 23 October 29 November 2 November 5-8 
~ 
Friday, August 28, 1992 
vs. Indiana (Exhibition) vs. UCLA vs. Duke at Loyola ILLINOIS-CHICAGO VALPARAISO at Michigan State LASALLE at Indiana at DePaul XAVIER DAYTON DETROIT at Evansville at Kentucky at Vanderbilt BRIGHAM YOUNG at Butler MIAMI (OH) MCC Championships 
Gt 
Notre Dame vs. Northwestern September 5th 
Round trip bus transportation to Soldier Field (Buses leave at 1 0 am from CCE) 
Tickets: $10 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to game available at the JACC Athletic Box Office 
-----~--­


Page 22 The Observer Friday, August 28, 1992 
Falcons giving up hope on having Sanders for opener 
ATLANTA (AP) -The Atlanta Falcons expressed little hope Thursday night of having Pro Bowl cornerback Deion Sanders on the field when the team opens the regular season on Sept. 6. 
"The probability of him being here in the next few days is not high," Jim Hay, the Falcons chief financial officer, said after negotiating with Sanders' agent, Eugene Parker, for the second day. 
Parker also met with Atlanta Braves general manager John Schuerholz earlier in the day and was meeting with him again Thursday night shortly before· 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
• 
The Notre Dame Sports information office. is seeking volunteers for its operation for the 1992·93 school year. Students will work with aJl .24varsity sports. press releases and statistics~ Call DougTammaro at 239-7516,. ·· 

•varsity 
Hockey will have a meeting on August 31 at 4:30 p.m. in the JACC Football Auditorium. 


.. 
•otre Dame·Rugby Club is starting practice. All returning players and anyone interested in playing should com.~ to Stephan Field a.t)h15 p.m. l\j:Q experience necessary, Please bring deats~.mouthpi13ee and proof ofinsurance. Questions? Call ?87·~5$7; ········ 
IISMC Club Sports will hold a meeting· on Augtist · 27 at 6 p.m..in Angelii Athletic Cent~r. Anyqn~ interested in participating should attend. 
•Football 
Officials ate· needed. tot Rec$p6#t~) leagues. Come to meeting on Septeniber9 in tlHiJACC Football Auditorium at 5 p.m. fnr Gtal:tfootbaltand at 5~30 p.m. ior women·s interhaiL Oflicil.il~; earn $9 a·· game. 

•Baseball 
umpires needed for tan b~~;h~t•Ieagi'les/·Anyone irtWrl:lsted should reporttp an umpirer$. meeting ()~ S~ptemb~:J; ..3 at 5 P4n· in the. JACC Auditorium. Umpires earn $10 a game:. 

•rhe 
SMC tennis team will hold a meetingJpt anyone intel'ested tn trying out for tM. team (ln September 2 at 4;3() p~m~ in Angela AW.~tic Center. 


IITickets for the Notre Dame-Northwestern game will be one sale today at the JACC starting at noon. Tickets are also available throug}l Ticke~~ter<(~lla) 559-1212 and the Northwestern Tkke{Offlee 1.;800• 
WILDCAT. 
miss the two games because of the World Series and playoff games." Parker had been trying to work out a deal that would have had Sanders play both sports at the same time ­appearing with the Falcons on Sundays and with the Braves the rest of the week. . 
They wanted a deal that would have allowed Sanders to go back to baseball full-time if the Braves made the playoffs and World 
Series. Atlanta had a 3 1/2-game 
r -CAMPUS DELIVERY OF 
I I Qtbe Nttu !orl( ~imts I I 
ONLY 30 CENTS/DAY MON-SAT
I I 
I ) MON~FRI ~ $18.90 ) MON ~SUN ~ $5 1.90 
I 
) MON~SAT ~ $ 21.90 ) SUN ONLY ~ $30.00
I I 
DELIVERY BEGINS MON SEPT 7 & ENDS FRI DEC 11
I I
(NO DELIVERY DURING FALL OR TI IAN KSGIVING 13REAKS) MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO: BILL LANE
I I I Name Phone I I Address I 
I Clip & Mail to: The New York Times I I c/o Bill Lane ~Campus Rep P.O. Box 885 
I
Notre Dame In 46556-0885
L ..1 
.. 
d''El'B. 
~~ 
rn, 
Apple Macintosh PowerBook"145 4/40 Apple Macintosh Classic· II Apple Macintosh Ilsi ·

Buy one ofthese. 


Get all oftfiese. 
Get over '400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992-and only at Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever. your authorized Apple campus reseller. And ifyou are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student The Macintosh Student Aid Package. ti® 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Building239-7477 
© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText'" developed by Houghton Mifflin Company, publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roger's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by language Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResumeWriter is a trademark ofBootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration only. All qualifying computers come preloaded with software and electronic versions ofinstructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer. 
the start of the Montreal-Atlanta baseball game. 
"We've probably had a short recess for a little while until someone else comes out with a better idea," Hay said. 
The Falcons had offered Sanders, an outfielder with the Braves, a $1 million bonus to forgo baseball and report to the football team at the start of training camp last month. 
Asked if that bonus offer was still on the table, Hay said, "It was reported in the paper that we had not taken it down and I couldn't dispute that, but there were some pretty substantial reductions if he elected to lead over Cincinnati in the NL West after Wednesday's action. The Falcons have two games and an off day on the schedule during the period of the baseball postseason. 
Asked if it now appeared Sanders wouldn't be in a Falcons uniform until after the baseball season ends, Hay said, "I don't know if you can draw that conclusion." 
He said the Falcons thought it was the appropriate time to try to work out a deal. 
Asked how he felt after his talk with Parker ended, Hay said, "Disappointed? Yes. Discouraged? No. If another window opened, we would probably pursue it." 
------------------...., 
Friday, August 28, 1992 page 23 
Today 
DtD Yoo SAY YOU HAD ~OSH'THEN I 1N1 TERI\IBL GIRL FRI£ND, NOW:> SoRR'{ FoR PULV£Ri2-tNG, 
You. IT'S HABIT Y'KNOi.J. 
T~E STRE~G~ TO C~A~GE W11AT I CAN, n\E INA\3\li'N TO ACCEPT W~fl,T I CA~'\, A\'-10 1\-\E 11'10.\>{l.,C \i'{ iO 
TELL 1\.\E 0\FFERE.t-I.CE . 
THE FAR SLOE
8·28 
GARY LARSON 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Multiflora 57 Officiate at tea 1 The Georgia 32 "Night and Day" 59"-mortality": Peach 
composer Shak. 
5 Dressed greens 34 "Well, I'll-eo Cone wearer monkey's
10 Corn chaser 61 Yearning
uncle!"
14 Fetor 62Yield 
37 All the way 
15 Opted 63 Cause of cross 40 Sparks's last words
16 Author Jaffe gasp 64 Parrot17 One of the 41 SwallowSinatras 42 Chick's sound 18 Postman's beat 
DOWN
43Cabbage;19 Jot clams 1 Portable bed 20 Nix, uh uh, not 
44 Traverses
on your life, etc. 2 Norse god 23 Maggie Smith's 45 Hammett 3 Pro-(free)
herome
title 4 Right off the 24 Vista 
47-play rack 
25 Short, thick 49Athosand 5 "Get lost!" 
friends
piece 6 "Oh, giv~ me 28 Minstrel show 55 Coryza Mister 56 Term 7 Churl a Italian wine region ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Consider 10 Emergency 

"This is it, Maurice! I've warned you 11 TV sports 

to keep your hens off me!" 
producer 30Adjacent 44 Be litigious 51-gun
Arledge 32 Dixie dish 45 Tantalus's 52 His birthday is along 33 Marathoner daughter Jan. 15 Markov a 
48 Lubricated 53 Campus military 21 Bluejack, e.g. 34 La-tar pits 47 Wield an epee gp. 22 All possible 35 "I Dream of 48 Water mammal 54 Similar 
Jeannie" star 
25 Where attys. so Meat-approving 55 Pres. title argue 341 Kin of daboias 
org. 58 Pi chaser 
38 Pres. Grant's 27 Functions first name 28 Pullulate 39American Get answers to any three clues 
a Colonial symbol by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· political leader a Kwai structure 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
MENU  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
French Bread Cheese Pizza  Mexican Bar  
Baked Pollack Sesame  Pasta Bar  
Swedish Meatballs  Meatloaf  


(;J::J:J'O ~£A'ltNS, I 1\-\INK I BLt.W tv\'{ F,t..C.£ 

.. 
8·ZB 

~ 
r 
' 
I ~ 
t 
page 24 

Jason Kelly 
Match Point 
Unfair treatment to Vincent ruining baseball 
The office of commissioner of baseball could be opening up soon. 
It seems like a dream job. How hard can it be to be the boss of something so interwoven into the American land­scape, something that many people would struggle to live without? Not to mention the great seats to all the big games. 
There's just one catch. 
You have to deal with constant complaints from one direction or another about the damage you're doing to the game they love. 
Economics are obviously the center of concern for most fat-cat baseball owners (who often seem to lack that 
love  for  the  game).  and  the  
commissioner  is  responsible  for  
keeping them financially content.  

If the game is struggling eco­nomically, it is the commissioner's fault, and if it is doing well the small market teams will complain about how tough it is to compete with the big bucks of New York and Los Angeles. 
More importantly, however, the commissioner has to work within the framework of what is in the "best interests of the game." Unfortunately, there are as many definitions of that phrase as there are teams in the major leagues. 
Maybe the job isn't as great as it appears. 
Just ask current commissioner Fay Vincent, who is on the hot seat for several unpopular decisions during his three-year reign as baseball's boss. 
His most recent controversies included the suspension of repeated drug offender (and occasional pitcher) Steve Howe and his proposed realignment of the National League. 
Howe has been back and forth between the major leagues and rehabilitation for several years, and this season Vincent finally kicked Howe out of baseball. He won't be missed. 
Some said that Vincent kept evidence quiet that would have been helpful to Howe. Withheld evidence or not, five failed chances to kick his drug habit more than justifies his removal. 
Vincent's decision to realign the National League also met with swift disapproval. led by a lawsuit from the Chicago Cubs front office. They quoted a loss of their historic rivalry with the New York Meets as the reason for their displeasure. All of baseball knows that the real reason for the Cubs uproar is the possible loss of television revenue due to the late starting times with west coast teams. 
Apparently the Cubs brass is so concerned with the bottom line that they have overlooked the opportunity to play in a division with three of baseball's worst teams-the Houston Astros, the L.A. Dodgers and the expansion Colorado Rockies. 
Hey, the Cubs need all the help they can get. But again the issue was financial, and the owners have decided to meet 
see KELLY/ page 19 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•sanders sticking to baseball 
see page 22 
.-Texas A&M celebrates win 
see page 19 
•carney makes cut 
see page 16 
Sports 
Friday, August 28, 1992 
Hoosiers to test. Irish in exihibtion 
Berticelli to look at position changes 
BY JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
It has all the ingredients to be one of the best college soccer games of the season. 
Except for one. 
Neither team really cares who wins. 
When the 20th-ranked Notre Dame men's soccer team travels to Indianapolis tomorrow for an exhibition game against number five Indiana, in the Golden Boot Classic, both teams will be more concerned with themselves than with their opponent. 
"It's different than a regular season game," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli. "I could care less about scouting Indiana and I'm sure they feel the same way." 
What Berticelli does care about is filling some holes in his lineup before the regular season gets underway next weekend. 
The starting unit has already undergone a major face lift during the preseason. Senior forward Kevin Pendergast and junior midfielder Mike Palmer are both being considered for a shift to defense. Sophomore Tim Oates and freshmen Bill Lanza, both expected to be major offensive contributors, are nursing injuries, allowing other players. to see preseason action. 
"We won't be the same team against Indiana that we will be later in the season," ' explained. "But the game will give us a chance to look at some other players and see how they can contribute." 
Although the teams are not losing sleep over the importance of tomorrow's game, the Classic will provide a taste of the regular season. 

"There will be thousands of people at the game, so there will be undertones of a regular season game," Berticelli added. "We need to downplay that and remember that it's just a practice game." 
There's no better way for an improving soccer team to practice than to battle one of the nation's best teams. 
Regardless of all the hype, however, Berticelli will not allow his team to lose its focus. 
"This is nothing more than an opportunity to practice and try out some different combinations," he explained, but quickly added, "when we play them in the regular season it will be a different story." 
For now, it's just practice. 
Hurricanes return to practice after frightening delay 
VERO BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Football never sounded better. Shoulder pads collided, young men grunted, coaches screamed, and the nation's top-ranked team began to recover from wounds inflicted by a devastating hurricane. 
At an unlikely site -the intersection of Pee Wee Reese Boulevard and Jackie Robinson Avenue in Dodgertown -the Miami Hurricanes resumed preseason practice Thursday. 
Damage to the Coral Gables campus caused by Hurricane Andrew forced the team to relocate in Vero Beach until the season opener Sept. 5 at Iowa. Towering palm trees, a sunny sky and gentle sea breezes for the first workout contrasted with what the Hurricanes left behind. 
"We're getting focused on our mission Sept. 5," receiver Kevin Williams said. "This is good scenery to do that. All the rest we'll put behind us." 
It won't be easy. The nation's preseason No. 1-ranked team looked sloppy as it practiced for the first time this week. Home was 140 miles away but still on everyone's mind. 
"My family is back there and all that, but I made a choice to come up here," said coach Dennis Erickson, whose house was seriously damaged in the storm. "The reason I came up here and the team came up here is to get ready for a game. 
"If we played Iowa tomorrow. we'd get beat. We'd better get our rear ends in shape if we're going to play the game, or let's cancel it." 
Many Hurricanes grew up in South Florida, and Andrew hit the team hard. Defensive lineman Marvin Davis didn't learn until Thursday that his family was safe. Three other players lost their homes and the homes of several assistant coaches and staff members sustained extensive property damage. Erickson and his family rode out the hurricane in a closet. 
As a result, emotions are raw. When a reporter asked about overcoming the "controversy" -a poor choice of words, he later admitted -Erickson exploded. 
"Don't ever tell me what this is," the coach snapped, his whole body shaking with emotion. "I was in the middle of it. "'You guys can sit here and talk about it, but I was there. Don't talk to me about controversy. It's a ... tragedy." 
Compounding Erickson's dark mood was the likely absence of at least three offensive starters for the Iowa game. Running back Stephen McGuire and receiver Darryl Spencer are very doubtful because of knee injuries, Erickson said, and receiver Lamar Thomas likely will remain sidelined for at least another week by legal troubles related to the school's Pell Grant scandal. 
"We've got our backs to the wall," Erickson said. "Whether we rally or whether we don't, we'll find out in the next seven or eight days." 
Players expressed confidence that they'll be ready for Iowa. It's just a matter of concentrating on football again, they said, and the veterans will show the younger players how to do it. 
"We have great senior leadership," junior defensive end Rusty Medearis said. "If I was going into combat, I'd want to bring a couple of those guys in there with me." 
Kevin Williams said Andrew's devastation will serve as moti­vation, against Iowa and beyond. 
"Everybody in Miami that suffered the hurricane damage and is going through hard times without power and food," Williams said. "We'll be playing for them." 

The Observer./ Jake Peters 
Heisman Hype 
Fullback Jerome Bettis, a top Heismen trophy contender, carries the ball during a scrimmage. 





