The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. [ (, ] MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Police shoot Granger man outside Linebacker 
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 
A Granger man was shot 
early Sunday outside the Linebacker Lounge, 1631 South Bend Ave., after a confrontation with city police officers. In a separate incident, three area residents were assaulted outside Notre Dame Ave. apartments by a group of black . females wielding boards with 
nails. 
Paul Thurston, 28, was 
wounded in the right arm from 
shots fired by an off-duty South 
Bend policeman. The bar was 
closed at the time and no stu­
dents were involved, according 
to Lt. Norval Williams of the 
South Bend Police Department. 
Charges have not been filed 
against Thurston, whose 
mother owns the Linebacker. 
The victim had fought with his estranged wife earlier in the bar, according to the police re­port. 
The incident occurred at 3:35 
a.m. Sunday in the Linebacker's parking lot when Thurston refused the officers' repeated requests to surrender a long­barrelled shotgun. South Bend Officer Marion Kasniza fired two shots at Thurston's right arm after he raised the weapon . 
The victim was taken to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. The case will be re­viewed by the internal affairs division and the County prose­cutor. 
Two males and one female received head and eye lacera­tions from the Notre Dame Ave. assault, according to the police report. They were taken to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment. 
see SHOOTING I page 4 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 


Sleeping out 

Seniors Lew Derbes, Mike Fogarty, David Indelicato, John Mulhern, Joseph Laur, Chris Kerner, Vincent Fazio, Darin Sipe and Don Lee, left to right, camp out in front of the JACC ticket office in hopes of 50 yard line tickets. 
Clinton pledges to create jobs; Republicans say plan unrealistic 
LITTLE ROCK. Ark. (AP) -• Election update/ page 5 tax. All food in Arkansas fell Democrat Bill Clinton opens the under state taxes long before he 
air wars of the fall presidential Campaigning Sunday in took office, she said. 
race with a commercial pledg­Monterrey, Calif., Gore said the ing to create 8 million jobs, but White House could not be The Bush-Quayle re-election Republicans say the spot lacks trusted on the environment be­team said the Democrats' jobs"truth in advertising." cause Bush has appointed peo­
pledge in the new broadcast Clinton's campaign released a ple willing to "ravage and ex­advertisement "flies in the face 
60-second commercial Sunday ploit" natural resources. of reality." that is set to begin airing today In another development, the in several targeted states. It Bush-Quayle campaign late "He has absolutely promised 
pushes his achievements as Sunday charged that under $150 billion in new taxes and 
Arkansas governor and says the Clinton's leadership, Arkansas $220 billion in additional gov­Democratic nominee's economic for more than six and a half ernment spending, which will strategy would create 8 million years taxed food stamp purchas wipe out jobs, rather than cre­new jobs in the first four years. "What made governor 'people ate them," said Torie Clarke, a first' stop taxing food stamps?"
Clinton was scheduled to spokeswoman for President 
work on state business today in asked deputy campaign Bush's re-election campaign. Little Rock; running mate AI manager Mary Matalin. "He Gore had campaign stops in didn't want to. The federal 
The 8 million jobs promised in 

government forced him to.' 
vote-rich California. President the spot is a new figure for the Bush was staying at the White Clinton spokeswoman Avis Clinton campaign. In the past,
House to keep abreast of Hurri­LaVelle did not dispute the Clinton has said his plan to cane Andrew recovery efforts assertion, but charged the Bush 
invest $20 billion in roads,

and Vice President Dan Quayle campaign was trying to bridges and other projects was headed South for a visit to "mislead" voters and cast it as would create 1 million jobs a a space facility in Alabama. though Clinton had started the 
year.. 


Juniors Aimee Lafreniere, Tim O'Neill, Laurie Niemann, Dave Basile and Joe Vigietta, left to right, participate in the Junior class mass which was held at the Grotto. 
Cultural Diversity Force prepares final report 
By PANCHO LOZANO 
News Writer 

Wit~ only a month to go be­fore it issues its final report, the Task Force on Cultural Diver­sity is 80 percent of the way fin­ished and is expected to meet it's deadline of October 1, ac­cording to Roland Smith, co­chairman of the task force .. 
Mter issuing a report on the preliminary findings in April, the group is reviewing the rec­ommendations presented in their report. A subgroup was formed this summer to collect and assess the reactions from each department and commit­tee of the University on the rec­ommendations. 
The task force was formed by University President Father Edward Malloy to address the issues raised by the Students United For Respect (SUFR) in spring 1991. The main goal of the task force is to create a total campus environment that is more inclusive and hospitable to various cultures, according to Smith. 
Rather than just publish the task force's final report, they would like to "take it one step further and see how those rec­ommendations can be trans­lated into action," said Father Richard Warner, co-chairman of the task force. 
"What we are doing is asking them to look at the task force's recommendations and tell us how that recommendation can be carried out and what sort of a time line we can come up with," said Warner. 
Another responsibility of the subgroup is to determine who will implement the recommen­dations. 
With a careful screening pro­cess, Warner believes that they can designate the people who 
see FORCE I page 4 

Student Government joins in hurricane relief effort 
By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 

Student Government will join the Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA) in its relief efforts for victims of last week's Hurricane Andrew. 
Although CAUSA initiated a relief project last week, Student Government will be complimenting their efforts with manpower and organizational methods, said University Service Commissioner Ryan Trzaskowski. 
Collection tables will be set up in the dining halls and LaFortune on.Monday, said Trzaskowski, and letters will be sent to all rectors requesting that a collection be taken after Sunday's dorm masses. 
The immediate goal of the group is to collect $10.000. or one dollar from every student, and they have set a deadline of Sunday, September 6, to end formal fundraising efforts. When the goal is met, the money will be divided between relief efforts in Florida and Lousiana, Trzaskowski said. 
Because many Notre Dame and St. Mary's students live in areas hit by the hurricane, Trzaskowski sees the Student Government effort as a "great way to start the school year on a united front." 
Student Body President Greg Butrus said that the project is "of interest to the whole student body," and students "would be let down if we didn't do anything:" 
Although CAUSA is organizing the relief effort, Butrus said that Student Government could be a great help because it "has the infrastructure built in to quickly get it out to the dorms." 

-------------------~~~----------------------­
page 2 The Observer Monday,August31, 1992 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Cable should 
be available in student rooms 
This summer University had cable in­stalled in every dormitory. Unfortunately, the only person in each dorm that has the privilege of watching it in the comfort of his or her own room is the rector. 

All  students  must  Mike Scrudato  
congregate in their dorm's  Sports Editor  
common room to see the  

latest news on CNN or watch some hoops on ESPN. 
Though the fact that students do not have to travel off-campus to see these things any more is an improvement, it is not the best improvement. 
According to William Kirk, vice president of Residence Life, the University has "no in­tentions" to make the best improvement, that is, allow each student to have the option to have cable service in his or her room. 
This situation is similar to last year's laundry service fiasco, when the University gave us the option of the service, but upset a lot of people in the process by taking away the laundry room in Washington Hall. 
While installing cable in only the selected areas will please some students, it will also create some problems. 
It is a lot more enjoyable to watch television on the comfort of your own couch with your roommates, than to sit on the concrete-like furniture with half the dorm. 
In addition this, conflicts will arise over what to be watching in the common room. Not everyone is going to want to watch col­lege football all the time. 
Among the reasons given was that to do so would be too expensive. This is simply ridiculous. 
Everyone who subscribes to cable does so because they want to, and they pay a monthly cable bill. Why should Notre Dame students be any different? .. 
Those students who want cable in their rooms could pay for it out of their own pockets, those which do not can make their way to the common rooms. 
If this arrangement was made, the only cost to the University would be wiring the rooms themselves. 
If every room can be wired with CTI phone service, why can't every room be wired with the potential to receive Heritage Cablevision? 
Even if an agreement could be made with Heritage, in which the rooms could be wired with little or no cost to the University, most likely, it still would not wire each dorm room because Kirk was not sure if doing so "would be a good idea." 
Why not, Mr. Kirk? 

Are you and the rest of the administration afraid that if the student body was exposed to an evil like cable in our very own rooms, that we would become a campus full of coach potatoes, who do nothing but watch sit-com reruns all day? 
The majority of students had cable in their homes before we came to Notre Dame and did quite well in school. Otherwise we would not be here. 
Please give us some credit, and give us our MTV. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff:  Systems:  
Production:  The Czar  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Viewpoint:  
Melissa Cusack  Tomi Otey  
News:  Accent:  
Julie Barrett  Susan Marx  
Sarah Doran  Business:  
Sports:  Susan Marx  
George  Lab Tech:  
Dohrmann  Pat McHugh  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Pf9SSUf9 
{)

H L 
u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via AssociaJed Press 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Bomb explodes at festival 
HANOVER, Germany -A bomb exploded at a crowded fair Saturday, injuring at least eight people, police said. There was no immediate claim of responsibility, officials said.Police said the bomb went off at about 7:20 p.m. when the summer festival in the old town of Hanover was in full swing with up to 200,000 visitors. The explosion sprayed pieces of metal and other debris into the crowd.Hanover police said eight people were injured in the blast, but a Cologne-based radio station, Deutschlandfunk, quoted police sources as saying 16 people were hurt. 
NATIONAL tion 

former lover Woody Allen's adoption of two of her children on grounds of "fraud and deceit," the Daily News reported Sunday. Farrow, 47, will ask Manhattan's Surrogate Court to revoke the adoptions on the grounds Allen was having an affair with another of Farrow's children at the time, unidentified sources told the News. Allen, 56, admitted two weeks ago he is romantically involved with Soon-Yi Previn, 21, who was adopted by Farrow and her second husband, pianist-conductor Andre Previn. 
Fire-rava~ed counties designated WASHING ON -President Bush on Saturday authorized federal disaster-relief funds for two fire­ravaged counties in California.Bush said federal assistance will be available in Calaveras and Shasta counties, where he said a major disaster exists after fires that began Aug. 16.Federal help can include temporary housing, grants, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help individuals 
OF INTEREST 
Registration for on-campus interviews takes place today until 5:30 p.m. and again tomorrow and Wednesday from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the Career and Placement Services office. All graduating students interested in interviewing during the 1992-1993 academic year are asked to register during this time. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING August 2~ 
NYSEINDEX
VOLUME IN SHARES 
+0.13 to 226,47 
219,269.480 
S&P COMPOSITE 

413.53 +0.02 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
3,254.64 +7.83 
GOLD 
+.90 to $339.20 
SILVER 
+5.035 to $3.705 
FORECAST: 
Chance of thunderstorms. Low's 50 to 60 and highs 75 to lower 80s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Achorage  56  51  
Atlanta  61  55  
Bogota  66  51  
Boston  82  72  
Cairo  97  75  
Chicago  61  54  
Cleveland  70  53  
Dallas  94  60  
Detroit  71  49  
Indianapolis  7546  
Jerusalem  86  70  
London  66  54  
Los Angeles  63  67  
Madrid  91  67  
Minneapolis  80  57  
Moscow  89  69  
Nashville  76  52  
New York  77  65  
Paris  72  55  
Philadelphia  75  64  
Rome  90  68  
Seattle  75  53  
South Bend  76  61  
Tokyo  91  79  
Washington, D.C.  76  61  


and businesses recover. Federal money also is available to local governments on a cost-sharing basis for repair or replacement of public facilities. 
The former Mayor, his angry wife 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Let's try to sort this out.Former mayor Bill Boner and fourth wife Traci Peel Boner are suing each other for divorce.The judge in the case used to date Boner.Mrs. Boner claims she photographed her husband's car at dawn outside the condominium of his third wife, to whom he was still married when he announced his engagement to her. But Mrs. Boner admitted in court she recently flew to Chicago and Milwaukee with an old boyfriend. Now the judge says the Boners must share their house until a divorce b granted. Mrs. Boner is a country music singer who learned Thursday that her contract with Liberty Records is being terminated.Her current release is "Almost Single." 
INDIANA 

Homeless center to recejve award 
SOUTH BEND-The South Bend Center for the Homeless will receive a commendation from the National Coalition for the Homeless at a press conference Tuesday at 10 a.m. Notre Dame President Father Edward Malloy, South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan and Congressman Tim Roemer will attend the press conference, which will be held at the center. The proclamation recognizes and commends the center for its unique and innovative approach to providing comprehensive services to the area's homeless people. For more information, contact Lou Nanni, executive director of the center, at 282-8700. 
NDCIBD interns who have photos from your summer internships, please donate them for activities night. Please contact Amy Mark at 283-4012 immediately. 
Donations for victims of Hurricane Andrew will be col­lected throughout the week at both dining halls and at LaFortune. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1915: Poland was divided into administrative districts; Warsaw to Germany, Kielce to Austria. 

• 
In 1941: During World War II, the Soviets launr;hed a counter attack along Dnieper River. 

• 
In 1955: Juan Peron of Argentina briefly offered his resignation amid student protests. 

• 
In 1972: American swimmer Mark Spitz became the second person to win five gold medals in the Olympics. 

• 
In 1982: Polish police used tear gas and water cannons to break up demonstrations by the trade union Solidarity. 




The Observer 

Monday,August31, 1992 page 3 
Friends, family remember Whitman as quiet and happy 

By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
People who knew Karen Whitman will remember her as a quiet, sensitive and happy student who enjoyed giving to others. 
Whitman, a junior from Mishawaka, Ind., who would 
Club Column 
AUGUST 31,1992 
1) All clubs registered for activities night must sign-in by 6:30 p.m. or risk losing your assigned space. Activities night will take place Tuesday, Sept. 1, from 7-10 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. Enter at Gate 3. 
2) Club Coordination Council office hours are now posted outside the CCC office, 206 Lafortune. 
3) All clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for their first semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time, and remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
All registered clubs may place SHORT announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN, which runs on Mondays in The Observer. Entries are due in the CCC office in 206 Lafortune by 5 p.m. on Thursday. 
Happy 21st 'Eatels' 

We love you bunches! 
'The Farm' 
have transferred from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's this year, died of a heart attack July 23 during an aerobics class. 
Whitman's father, Thomas Whitman, a professor in the ND psychology department, de­scribed her as having "a serious mind with a good sense of humor." 
Whitman's main strength, 
Professor Whitman said, was her sensitivity toward other people's needs. "She was a very generous and giving person." 
This sensitivity fueled Whit­man's desire to pursue a career in sociology, as well as her vol­unteer work with student tutor­ing programs and with the Lo­gan Center, Professor Whitman said. "She was a sensitive individual who tried to reach out to other people." 
Lyons Hall Rector Sister Kath­leen Beatty described Whitman a "quiet and reserved" person with "an excellent sense of humor." 
Although Whitman was going to transfer to Saint Mary's to pursue a degree in sociology, she enjoyed the time she spent 

Smokers need counseling to quit 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. (AP)­Drug advancements for smokers trying to quit are proving more effective than ever, but tobacco specialists warned Saturday that doctors must guide their patients or cessation will rarely succeed. 
"Even a one-pack-a-day smoker is engaging in this be­havior 7,000 times a year. They need to learn to become a non­smoker," said Jean Kristeller, a psychology professor at Indiana State University. 
"Just removing the nicotine component appears to not be effective in getting them to re­sist all of the situations effec­tively that they used to smoke in," Kristeller said. 
About two dozen people at­tended "Treatment Strategies for Nicotine Addiction," a weekend conference aimed at helping physicians better un­derstand the addictive nature of nicotine to the patients they treat. 
More than 47 million adults 


As aMarine Officer, you could be in charge ofa afreshman or sophomore, ask about our Wider-Mach 2+ FIA-I&\, avertical take-offHarrier or gr.Jduale officer comrni~sioning programs. Ifyou're a one ofour other jets or helicopters. And you could jtmior, checkout ourgraduate programs. Starting ooitbythelirneyou're23. Butittakesaspecial salariesarefrorn $22,000 to $32,000. And~· 
conunitrnent on your part We .-------------. you can counton . demandleldersatallieveJs. E"O ~a-*""'ar goingfurther...fuster. We !elch you to be one. Ifyou're Ul .l.a.l.Ul.,~••• The Few: The Proud. The Marines. 
faster. 
smoke in the United States, while another 3.5 million ado­lescents light up. But surveys show that nine out of 10 want to quit. 
While smokers must change their attitudes toward smoking, the nicotine contained in ci­garettes is the driving force behind most people's inability to kick the habit, said Elbert Glover, director of the Tobacco Research Center at West Vir­ginia University's Mary Babb Randolph Cancer Center. 
Part of the problem in the past had been an unwillingness to look at the addictive nature of nicotine and try to place all the blame on behavior, Glover said. 
Of the 17 million people who try to quit every year, just slightly more than 1 million are successful, he said. 
"It begins to attest to the ad­dictiveness of nicotine," Glover said. The latest combatant in the war on smoking is the transdermal patch, a small de­vice placed on the skin that al­lows nicotine to be absorbed into the bloodstream. 
"The advantage of the patch is its ease of use and its demonstrated effectiveness and safety," said Jane Gorsline, a research scientist from Palo Alto, Calif., who helped develop the patch that went on the market last December. 
The $4-a-day patch, which is worn on the upper body, gives smokers about half the amount of nicotine they would typically get from 30-plus cigarettes a 
~ 
~­
1~ 
I 12:15-12:45 2 4:00-5:00 3 4:20-5:20 4 5:15-6:15 5 5:20-6:~0 6 6:45-7:45 7 9:00-10:00 
8 12:15-12:45 
9 4:00-5:00 10 4:15-5:15 II 4:00-5:00 12 5:20-6:20 13 5:20-6:20 14 9:00-10:00 
15 4:00-5:00 
16 9:00-10:00 

Rll clones ere co-ed. Men ere encouraged to pertlclpole. The cost for clones meeting 2 deys per week Is S 15 o semester. The cost for closses meeting I doy per week IsS I 0 o semester. 
The cost for 1/2 Hour classes Is SIDe semester. Classes begin September 2nd 
was quiet and reserved, but she enjoyed talking to other people. "Because she was so quiet, she appreciated when people talked to her." 
Natalie Jankowski, a junior from Lyons Hall, will remember Whitman as a friendly and generous person. "It took a while to get to know her, but once you got to know her, she was a very generous person." 
Lyons Hall is planning to hold a memorial Mass for all the people who were not able to at­tend Whitman's funeral this summer. The hall also plans to donate proceeds from its Vol­leyball Tournament to the American Heart Foundation in Whitman's memory. 
~ 
~ 

MONDRY I WEDNESDAY 
1~ ! 

Beg Slop Aerobics Room 219 Rockne High lnlenslty Gym 1 JACC Step AerobiCS Gym 2 JACC Combo Reroblts Gym I 
JRCC High lnlenslty Room 301 Rockne WotP.r Reroblcs Pool 
Rollo Combo Reroblts Room 301 
Rockne 

TUESDAY I THURSDAY 
Pool Rolfs High lnlenslty Gym I JRCC Step Reroblcs Gym 2 JRCC Step Reroblc• Room219 Rockne Step Aerobics Room219 Rockne Stretcherclse Gym I Woler Reroblts 
JRCC Combo/funk Room 301 Rockne 
FRIDAY Combo Aerobics 6ym I JRCC 
SUNDRY Combo Aerobics Room 30 I Rockne 
day but usually enough to han­dle any withdrawal symptoms from smoking. 
After four to six weeks, the amount of nicotine is reduced until the body no longer re­quires it, provided the patient receives behavioral counseling. 
"It's an important component of it and the product is labeled to be used with behavioral support," Gorsline said. "The nicotine patch is an aid to alleviation of withdraw symp­toms for people attempting to stop smoking." 
Glover said nicotine gum also proved to be effective in clinical studies but has shown only limited results because more than 50 percent of the people using-it do so without doctor consultation. 
"I'm afraid the same problem is going to happen with the patch," he said. "The behav­ioral counseling is still very im­portant and people are ignoring that part of it unfortunately." 
Kristeller, who counsels smokers, agreed. 
"The gum or the patch takes the edge off the psychological addiction part while you learn to deal with the behavioral ad­diction," she said. 
Kristeller urged physicians at the conference to discuss smoking with their patients, noting that 70 percent of all smokers have contact with doc­tors each year. 

Capt. Dennis Hallahan will be at the La Fortune Center, O'Hara Lounge, tomorrow and Wednesday from 10:00 to 2:00. Stop by or call 1-800-945-3088. 
------------------------------------~---------------------~------------------------­
page 4 The Observer Monday,August31, 1992 
Police have no suspects in the police report. beatings.
Shooting 

The confrontation occurred A group of black females after one of the victims was surrounded the victims and
continued from page 1 

shot by a young black male with assaulted them with boards a bb-gun, according to the with nails. 


plans. The deadline to present the final report to Malloy was origi­
Force 

"Once we identify those per­nally intended to be September sons in each department or 1, but was postponed due to the
continued from page 1 

unit, then we can come to an­lack of personnel compiling the can be accountable for helping other stage in the area of cul­last pieces of information this the task force to implement the tural diversity," said Warner. summer, according to Warner. 
Fugitive keeps authorities at bay 
NAPLES, Idaho (AP) -A fugitive white supremacist who has held authorities at bay for eight days is wounded, but not yet ready to leave his log cabin, a former Green Beret officer who spoke with him said Sat­urday. 
Former U.S. Army Special Forces Lt. Col. James "Bo" Gritz said Randy Weaver told him he was wounded in an exchange of gunfire with federal agents Aug. 22 that also killed his wife and wounded a family friend. 
Weaver is holed up in the cabin with his three daughters and the friend. 
Weaver's teen-age son and a federal agent were killed in a shootout Aug. 21 that led to the siege of Weaver's house by more than 100 federal, state and local police and National Guardsmen. 
Gritz, who also is a third­party presidential candidate, said Weaver wants "a day or so" before deciding whether to leave the cabin. 
A party of three -Gritz, a lo­cal preacher and a Weaver family friend -were able to get near enough to shout messages to the cabin's occupants. 
Gritz said Weaver had shouted to him through the walls that he wanted to pray and talk with his family before deciding whether to surrender. Gritz said he thought Weaver "may need a day or so" before making his decision. 

'Randy wants to try to talk the situation out," Gritz said. "I think they're still a little bit concerned about their personal safety." 
The police and Guardsmen have surrounded the remote cabin on Ruby Ridge, about 10 miles south of Bonners Ferry and 110 miles northeast of Spokane, Wash. They said they hoped to convince Weaver to abandon any thoughts of dying in a final confrontation. 
In the cabin with Weaver are his three daughters, ages 16, 10 and 10 months, and Kevin Harris, 24, a friend who lived with the family. 
Harris was wounded and Weaver's wife, Vicki, 43, was killed in the Aug. 22 gunfight. 
Authorities learned of Vicki Weaver's death after allowing Gritz to speak with Weaver through a bullhorn Friday night. 
On Saturday's visit, Gritz said Weaver told him he was wounded in the arm by a bullet and Harris was hit by frag­ments of either bone or the bullet that struck Weaver's wife in the head. They were shot as Mrs. Weaver closed the cabin door after Weaver and Harris moved the body of Weaver's son to a shed. 
Gritz took a bullhorn and a box of food for Weaver's daughters when he went to the cabin area with Chuck Sandelin, described as a local 
Chain founder's son 
pastor, and Weaver family friend Jackie Brown. 
Harris has been charged with first-degree murder in the slaying of Deputy U.S. Marshal William Degan, 42, of Quincy, Mass., during the initial Aug. 21 exchange of gunfire that also killed Weaver's 14-year-old son, Samuel. 
Weaver was charged with as­sault on a federal officer during that shootout. 
Marshals had been keeping periodic watch on Weaver since he failed to appear for trial in February 1991 on federal charges of making and selling illegal weapons. 
Weaver is a devotee of the Christian Identity Movement that combines Old Testament beliefs with right-wing and white-supremacist politics. 
He also is a former Special Forces engineer who served at Fort Bragg, N.C., during the Vietnam War. Gritz has said they shared common experi­ences and argued he could per­suade Weaver to surrender peacefully. 
Gritz, the Populist Party's 1992 presidential candidate, commanded unsuccessful commando raids into Laos in 1982 in search of missing U.S. prisoners of war. 
He said later he was acting with the U.S. government's ap­proval, but the government denied that. 

A funny guy 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Comedian Carrot Top performs live in Washington Hall on Saturday night. He entertained students both Friday and Saturday nights. 

Ellen 
Sommerland, 
Legal at Last! 
Have a Great Senior Year. Love, Mom, Dad, Sharon, John, & Mike 
Happy 21st 
Birthday! 

charged for murders 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -The son of a man who founded a chain of grocery stores surren­dered to police Saturday on charges he killed his estranged wife and her boyfriend, a former Iowa legislator. 
Russell Lund, whose father founded the Lund grocery chain that serves Minneapolis-St. Paul, is charged with two counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of Barbara Lund and 
E. Kevin Kelly. 
Lund,59, was jailed pending a bail hearing Monday, said prosecutor Dan Mabley. 
The bodies were found in Lund's home in Minnetonka, after his lawyers directed offi­cers to go there Aug. 6. 

Mrs. Lund, 55, was shot in the head, chest and shoulder, according to a criminal com­plaint filed Friday night. Kelly, 49, was shot twice in the head and once each in a shoulder and finger. 
The victims' relatives said Kelly, a state representative in 1971-72 and senator from 1973 to 1978, was Mrs. Lund's boyfriend. 
A gun police identified as Lund's was given to authorities by a private investigator work­ing for Lund's attorneys. Tests showed blood on the gun was consistent with Kelly's blood type, the complait said. 
Baboon liver recipient develops infection 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -A 35­year-old man who received a baboon liver transplant has de­veloped an infection, and doc­tors downgraded his condition to serious, a University of Pitts­burgh Medical Center spokeswoman said Saturday. 
The man, whose name has been withheld at his request, developed sepsis following an X-ray Friday of his bile duct, said spokeswoman Jane Duffield. He had been in fair condition. 
"There continues to be no sign of rejection and doctors are treating the sepsis with an­tibiotics," Ms. Duffield said. 

The X-ray revealed normal results, but sepsis -the pres­ence of pus-forming organisms or toxins in the blood or tissue -resulted from the procedure, she said. 
The man received the liver two months ago in a first-of-its­kind operation. He had hepati­tis B, which was destroying his liver and prevented the use of a human liver as a transplant or­gan. 
The patient battled a fever last week, prompting doctors to move him into an intensive-care unit. 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS 

BELIEVE IT OR NOT, THIS GUY IS IN CLASS. 
Excitement and adventure is the course description, and Army ROTC is the name. It's the one college elective that builds your self-confidence, develops your leadership potential and helps you take on the challenges of command. 
There's no obligation until your junior year, so there's no reason not to try it out right now. 
~ ~ 

ARMY ROTC 
TBE SMARTEST COJJ.EGE 
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Contact Captain Selling 239-6264 for information 
page 5 

Monday,August31, 1992 The Observer 
I~ ELECTION '9 2 JiPI 
Clinton rallies Arkansas troops 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) ­Bill Clinton rallied homestate Democratic troops Saturday and appealed for their help in countering Republican criti­cisms against their small state of Arkansas. 
"We've had a plan, not just a bunch of hot air," the Demo­cratic nominee told a conven­tion of his state Democratic Party, citing steps to improve Arkansas' economy, schools and health care system and efforts to move people from welfare to work. 
Later, Clinton said the federal response to hurricane damage in Florida and Louisiana should be "looked into" to see how it could be improved, but he de­clined to criticize President Bush. 
"I don't want to get into assessing blame here, because I don't know what the facts were," Clinton said, talking by satellite to a group of Asian­American journalists in Wash­ington D.C. 
He said the inquiry should be done "in a non-political way." 
Clinton said "managing dis­asters" was a big part of a pres­ident's job and noted he'd had to respond to various natural disasters in Arkansas. 
He told state Democrats they'd spent "a dozen years in our state, with our eyes on the future," adding that "bit by bit," the state had moved forward. 
"Pretty soon. we looked back and we'd come a long way," Clinton told the roaring, flag­waving group of partisans. "We've got a lot of problems left to go, but we are doing our job." 
"We didn't make any mira­cles," the Arkansas governor said. "But this is about doing better." 

Bill Clinton 

The Arkansas governor, who has been ridiculed by Republi­cans as the "failed governor of a small state," asked them to campaign for him in the next 66 days. 
Two polls released Saturday showed the gap between Bush and Clinton narrowing in the past week. The margin was 6 percentage points in a Time Magazine-CNN poll that found 46 percent of likely voters say­ing they would vote for Clinton if the election were held today and 40 percent favoring Bush. In a Gallup-Newsweek survey, Clinton was favored by 49 per­cent of registered voters and Bush by 39 percent. Both sur­veys had 3-point margins of er­ror. 
Bush was absent from the campaign trail Saturday. He was spending the weekend at Camp David, Md., and returned to the White House for a brief­ing on relief efforts. 
His campaign continued its sparring with Clinton over taxes. 
Vice President Dan Quayle, visiting the Little League World Series in Williamsport, Pa., quipped that Clinton probably prefers football over Little League, saying "Every time the 

257 .-1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York Pizza 
Calzones• Hot and Cold Subs•Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
SHORT ON CASH? 
Come to the Morrissey Loan Fund 1st Floor LaFortune, O'Hara Lounge 11:30, 12:30 Monday, Friday 
Borrow up to $250 Payable in 30 Days @ 1°/o interest 
Jefferson  


Main & jefferson Hours Mon-Th 1 I a.m. -I I p.m. Fri-Sat lla.m.-I 1 p.m. Sun 4 p.m. -9 p.m 
quarterback says 'hike,' he thinks about taxes." 
Clinton communications di­rector George Stephanopoulos said Bush's proposed across­the-board tax cut was a "fool's promise" that couldn't be kept. 
Clinton, back home after two­day bus trip through Texas, stressed economics. 
He cited several recent gov­ernment reports offering gloomy news on the economy in claiming that President Bush takes credit for the end of the Cold War but doesn't accept blame for the sluggish economy. 
"They never talk about that, but on my bus trip I could hardly avoid that," Clinton said. 
He got some help from Sen. David Pryor, who told his fellow Arkansans they should be of­fended by the Republican attack on Clinton. 
"They're not talking about just Bill Clinton, they're talking about you," Pryor said. 
Later, Clinton and running mate AI Gore were headed to a star-studded fund-raiser at a Little Rock hotel expected to raise $1.2 million for the Democratic Party. Entertainers Chevy Chase, Herbie Hancock and Gladys Knight were in town for the gala. 
Please Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. Thank You. 
-The 
Observer 

$eir profession "and still con;. duct their lives in such a way to provide a positive role 
elto kids:" · reminisced about his 
1

r;,,,,,-'J.t.i.,,t.,,A.,. League, saying 
the youngest and p)Ayer "and walk~d oercemtof the time." 
L(:\'ague doe~ ·teauh 
····-" Quayle s.ald:

--·· ll,)yalty. importance of hard work. And -_values. I -am not . back down from --,--Li1IA.tu~~'·ttJLJ--.Jut th~ importance .Qf'tra;(titiontal values." 
said Pi~sident Bush netltJea win the CQld War now vP'ters should elect 

W~r~ ~epnblicans to Congress so-"we can win the domestic war and bring more jobs and qpportunities to the A!nerican people." 
Quayle's wife. Marilyn, talked about health care 
issues and said she was angry Clinton told the Democratic National Conve:ntion in New 
· York he was goiug to pitt women's health on "the front burner." · 
Gore defends policies affecting auto industry 
DETROIT (AP)-AI Gore said Saturday that the White House has "brought pink slips not paychecks" to thousands of U.S. autoworkers and dismissed GOP claims that the Democratic ticket's policies would hurt the 
U.S. car industry. 

The Tennessee senator, ap­pearing in auto-dependent Michigan on the heels of visits by President Bush and Vice President Dan Quayle, also 
Mandatory Meeting for all Irish Gardens Employees on Tuesday, Sept. 1 at 7:00 at the store. Questions? 
Call283,2670 (Maureen) 

Fulbrillht Competition 1993-1994 Seniors interested in Pursuing Graduate Study Abroad are invited to an informational meeting with advisor, John Welle (7204) on Thursday, September 3rd at 
7:15 p.m.in the Center for Social Concerns 

fended off Republican attacks on his environmental record. 
His appearance before a cheering crowd at the state Democratic convention was meant to energize the Demo­cratic base in a Rust Belt state tl~at will be key to wresting control of the White House from the Republicans. 
Gore, limping after straining a calf muscle during a morning job, said he and Clinton were "committed to America's au­toworkers and to an industry that ... provides the world with first-class cars." 
Gore offered no apologies for his environmental stands, which Vice President Dan Quayle on Friday called "pretty bizarre" while campaigning in Michigan. Quayle claimed the' Democrats could cost hundreds of thousands of autoworkers their jobs by pushing for higher auto fuel efficiency standards. 
Gore responded that Bush and Quayle "want you to be­lieve that they are good for the automobile industry" but "the only thing they want to talk about" is the fuel-efficiency is­sue. 
He said the Republicans are "attempting to create a diver­sion to try to get people not to think about what has really happened" with the economy. 
"I want to tell you I do favor better fuel efficiency and, yes, I favor 40 miles per gallon and, yes, I believe there is a serious worldwide environmental cri­sis," Gore said. "I make no apologies for my beliefs." 
He said the administration had no right to point fingers on the issue of jobs in the auto in­dustry. 
"How dare Bush and Quayle come into Michigan and talk about jobs in the automobile in­dustry when they have presided over the worst destruction of jobs in the auto industry in the entire history of this nation." Gore said. 
page 6 
-------·---~ 


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

Everybody loves a picnic 
Father Jose Martelli, the new pastor of Sacred Heart Parish, enjoys the parish picnic at St. Mary's Lake by cheering on the children participating in sack races. 
Last Russians leave war­battered Afghanistan 
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) ­The last Russian diplomats pulled out of the war-battered Afghan capital Saturday, clos 
ing the books on a decade of bloody involvement by a once­powerful neighbor. 
About 50 Russian diplomatic staff and their families slipped out aboard a Soviet-made Antonov transport plane headed toward the northern Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif and then on to Moscow. 
The departure was kept se­cret following a rocket attack on Kabul airport on Friday that destroyed one of three Ilyushin­76 military transport planes sent to evacuate the 170 embassy employees and their families. 

Many on Saturday's flight said they had wanted to stay, but Moscow ordered them to ieave, saying Kabul had become too dangerous. 
The Russian mission had become a target of rebels determined to avenge the 1979 invasion and nine-year occupation of Afghanistan by the former Soviet Union. 
The Russians' forbidding fortress-like compound is rid­dled with bullets and shrapnel. The main building has been sealed and the compound emptied but for a few pro-gov­ernment security guards . 


JOIN OUR 
TEA~·I 
' 
'
• 

CATERING E~1PLOY~1ENT NEEDS YOU!! 
EARN$$$$ FLEXIBLE HOURS ~tEET NE\\1 FRIENDS HAVE FUN \\IQRI<ING 
SiQn up in t.he basement. of SOH 
2 -5 P~t ~ton-Fri 


---~ -------------~------------­
The Observer 
Monday,August31, 1992 

Hijacked Ethiopian plane lands 
ROME (AP) -A hijacked Ethiopian jetliner landed in Rome early Sunday after a day­long odyssey around the Middle East and East Africa that in­cluded failed negotiations and the reported release of all 79 passengers. 
Fourteen people were aboard the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 
727: five hijackers and nine crew members, said police spokesman Nicola Cavaliere. 
Cavaliere said there was no information on whether the hijackers were armed, but the Italian news agency ANSA re­ported the hijackers had auto­matic rifles and pistols. 
The hijackers' plans or de­mands were not immediately known. An Ethiopian Airlines official began talks with the hi­jackers shortly after they touched down in Ciampino, about 10 miles south of Rome, at about 2:30 a.m. (8:30 p.m. EDT Saturday). The plane flew from Cairo, Egypt, where it re­fueled. 
Ridwan Abdalla. the Ethiopian charge d'affaires in Cairo, said he believed the hi­jackers were Ethiopians. 
The plane's engines were still running two hours after it landed. The aircraft was illu­minated by spotlights. 
Ciampino has both military and civilian facilities and han­dles mainly charter flights. Re­porters were kept outside the airport. 


Civil aviation sources in Ye­men, where the plane made a stop earlier Saturday, said the hijackers claimed to hold a prominent Briton. But Italian police said only crew and hi­jackers were aboard the plane in Rome. 
In Djibouti, a tiny African na­tion that neighbors Ethiopia, the plane's 79 passengers were released Saturday, Yemeni sources said. There were no immediate details on the pas­sengers' conditions. 
The plane was hijacked late Friday after taking off from Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, on a domestic flight. 

The crew was ordered to fly to San'a in Yemen, according to Yemen's SABA news agency. 
When San'a officials refused to let the jet land, it flew to Dji­bouti. 
In Djibouti, the Yemeni charge d'affaires talked to the hijackers, and they agreed to let the passengers go, said Yemeni sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The plane then flew to the Yemeni city of Aden early Saturday. 
In Aden, Yemeni sources said, the hijackers insisted on talking to American and British diplomats and U.N. envoys. The ambassadors, based in San'a, refused to speak to them. 
Just When You Thought We Forgot!!! Happy ZI" Sandy! Love, The Tribe 


.-------·· 
Business 

Monday,August31, 1992 page 7 
Spectacle of 'The Shirt' symbolizes spirit, support 
By PANCHO LOZANO Business Writer 
On Saturday Sept. 12, Notre Dame fans across the country will witness the spectacle which has characterized Notre Dame's home opener the past few years. "The Shirt" has become familiar with the student body, alumni, and subway alumni across the country as a symbol of spirit and support of the football team. 
With a quarter of the stadium wearing kelly green in 1990 and royal blue in 1991, organizers of this year's "Shirt" hope to make it the largest spectacle on national television. "This year we wanted to design a shirt that was Bookstore quality, yet still spirit oriented," said Steve Hank, chairman and organizer of "The Shirt" committee for the Student Union Board (SUB). 
Originally intended as a symbol of spirit by the student body, this year's project has expanded to include alumni and fans also. 
"We wanted to show the whole nation that Notre Dame is not just a school made up of students, but an entire community united behind one cause. We want to include the alumni in order to bring the alumni and students closer as a group," said Hank. 
"The Shirt" was originally intended as a fundraiser for SUB with proceeds to be split between the Hall Presidents Council (HPC) and SUB. SUB will be using the proceeds for various projects in programming and capital while HPC will allocate the funds evenly to each residence hall. 
The idea of "The Shirt" was originated two years ago by Brennan Harbath, former commissioner of AnTostal, as a symbol of spirit for the football team. According to Matt Bomberger, Director of Programming for SUB, the project has almost doubled in size compared to last year due to an increased effort in marketing. 
"The difference between now and then is night and day. We now have shirts in places like the Bookstore, the Varsity Shop, through mailorder, and Blue and Gold Illustrated," said Bomberger. 
According to Hank, this year they have already sold an estimated 9,000 shirts out of their total 24,000, which is twice as many as last year. 
Another advantage of the increased marketing effort is the availability of "The Shirt." On-campus students can obtain their shirts through their hall representatives at the price of $10. Off-campus students can obtain "The Shirt" at the LaFortune information desk for the same price as long as they present their student identification. 

For non-students, "The Shirt" will be available at the Notre Dame Bookstore and the Alumni Association office. 
As of Sept. 1, "The Shirt" will go on sale at the Varsity Shop and on the day of the game at the mobile concession stands both in and outside the stadium. 
"The Shirt" will also be on sale at the pep rally in the JACC on Sept. 11,the night prior to the game. 
"We'd like to grow and expand each year as much as possible in order to get as many people as possible supporting this project," said Bomberger. 
"As I said before, we really want this to be the greatest spectacle for everyone to see ... all the students with one color behind the team. Once we get the alumni and fans involved, we'd like to make it a stadium wide spectacle." 
According to Hank, last year and the year prior went as expected, but this year they hope to do much better. "The more marketing we do, the greater of a chance people have to buy 'The Shirt'. " said Hank. 
Bomberger believed that the main focus of the project was not for profit, but rather to show the unity of the Notre Dame family. "This is not an issue of money," said Bomberger. "The whole purpose of making it a spectacle on national television is to show how strong the Notre Dame spirit really is." 

Bush orders additional troops, money to aid hurricane damage 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­$300 million available to speed hurricane victims. "We intend White House aides and leaders dent Bush ordered an addi­delivery of services by the Fed­to respond to this crisis on a of the federal disaster team. tional 5,000 military troops to eral Emergency Management human level, block by block, "I see a bunch of people run­hurricane-battered Florida on Agency and the Small Business right out there where these ning around interviewing peo­Saturday and released $300 Association. He also said he people live." ple who have been thrown out million to spend the delivery of was allocating $127.2 million Sixty-six days before the of their homes by a natural dis­emergency services. He said for emergency food stamps for election, Bush angrily rejected aster saying, 'How does the pol­"significant progress" is being residents of Dade County. any suggestion that his actions itics work?'. Good heavens, isn't made to help the needy. Further, Bush said he will ask were politically motivated. there any h<;>nor here? Can't we 
The Pentagon said planned Congress for a supplemental "This may be hard for you to help people without having increases eventually would appropriations request for believe, I am thinking about somebody try to put a political bring the total of federal mili­"whatever amount necessary to what's good for the people interpretation on it? I mean, tary personnel from all services respond to the human needs on there. I don't even think about Heaven's sakes." in Florida to 14,500. the ground" in Florida, as well the politics of it," he told re­The president returned to the 
Bush was briefed on relief as Louisiana and Guam. porters during a photo oppor­White House from Camp David efforts for Hurricane Andrew Praising the federal response, tunity in the Cabinet Room, for an afternoon update on the and announced he was making Bush said, "I am satisfied that where he was surrounded by storm's damage. 



John P. O'Malley 
Sales Representative New Memberships or Transfers 
tUI•OII•t•OIAU 

Auto & Property Insurance 
CHICAGO 

AM-CHICAGO MOTOR CLUB 
MOTOR 
5922 GRAPE ROAD 
CLUB 

INDIAN RIDGE PLAZA MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46545 
219/277-5790 RES.: 219/288-0980 Please ask for John O'MIIIey. 
-------~---~-----,;,;,;,___,_
Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
r-CAMPUS DELIVERY OF 

1 I ~bt Nt\ttUorl<~imts I I 
I I 
( ) MQN,fRI, $18.90 ) MQN,SUN, $51.90
I I 
( ) MQN,SAT, $ 21.90 ) SUN ONLY , $30.00
I I 
DELIVERY BEGINS MON SEPT 7 & ENDS FRI DEC 11I (NO DELIVERY DURING FALL OR THANKSGIVING 13REAKS) I MAKE CHECK PAYABLE TO: BILL LANE 
I I I Name Phone I 
----------------· I Address I I
1Clip & Mail to: The New York Times c/o Bill Lme, Campus Rep P.O. Box 885 Notre Dame In 46556,0885 
.J 

IL------------------I 


Viewpoint 

page 8 Monday,August31, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ..........•........... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .•...•............ Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller •..•..........•.•....... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The 'code of life' helps Is Notre Dame losing her roots? 
message includes a recognition

prove pre-born identity 
We can expect renewed dis­of and adherence to the teach­
Charles E. Rice 
cussion during this academic ing authority of the church in
Dear Editor: the mother of God visited Eliza­Right or Wrong 
year of how to preserve the matters of faith and morals."
Notre Dame Philosophy Pro­beth, "the babe leapt in her 
Catholic character of Notre The official rhetoric claims
fessor Edward Manier (The womb." And Elizabeth cried Dame. allegations months after the that Notre Dame is laycon­
Observer, Aug. 25, 1992) out, "Blessed is the fruit of thy Predictably, one of the most matter had been settled be­trolled. In his February, 1992,claims that the DNA sequence womb, Jesus!" (St. Luke 1:39­important issues will be ig­tween him and the University. Reflections on University Gov­existing in all human embryos 45). 
nored: Whether the transfer of It would compound the ernance, Fr. Edward Malloy,neither constitutes the presence At the moment of that visit, Notre Dame to "lay control" tragedy of the Burtchaell mat­states that, "In 1967, gover­of "a specific and unique commemorated in the second was a mistake and whether the ter if it were allowed to dis­nance...was transferred from
being," nor "defines human joyful mystery of the holy 
Congregation of Holy Cross credit the important contribu­the Congregation of Holy Cross.
individuality." rosary, the center of the uni­should resume ownership of the tion of his First Things article. ..to a predominantly lay BoardThis argument seems to illus­verse focused in Mary's womb. 
University. of Trustees." 
trate a general ignorance of the Because of the devotion of It is also the 25th anniversary Using Vanderbilt as thefact which states that a human Mary, a single, young, unwed of the transfer of the University model, the Burtchaell article However, the trustees arebeing, from the point of con­mother, our savior was born to supposedly lay governance. examines the secularization of elected by the Fellows who,ception, will never develop into into this world. 
That transfer should be reex­the Protestant universities in among their other powers, alsoanything other than one indi­Today howeve~ over one amined in light of a remarkable the period. 1870-1910. Fr. adopt and amend the bylawsvidual human child. third of our generation has not two-part article published by Burtchaell then examines, and control the transfer of Uni­This fact exists because DNA, been so fortunate. 4,500 chil­Fr. James T. Burtchaell. C.S.C., without naming any institu­versity property. Six of thecalled the 'code of life' by even dren are tortured and sacrificed in the April and May, 1991, tions, the comparable secular­twelve Fellows are-and mustthe most liberal Darwinists, to the god of pleasure each day. 
First Things. ization of Catholic universities. be-Holy Cross priests. 
predetermines the baby's eye, 17,500,000 babies have been 
At about that time, Notre

hair and skin color, blood type, exterminated over the eighteen Dame requested Fr. Burtchaell's He appears to regard the The Holy Cross priests, there­height. build, intelligence, etc. years of my lifetime, and resignation from the faculty in assertion of institutional auton­fore, have decisive leverage, but If these factors do not constitute tremendous human potential response to allegations of omy through severance of the the Congregation of Holy Cross"specific and unique" charac­has been lost. 
sexual misconduct with legal connection to the Church has no formal accountability. Itteristics of human individuality, Of those seventeen and a half students. as a decisive act, leading almost is fair to ask whether a
what does? million casualties, how many 
Fr. Burtchaell's article, "The inexorably to a loss of religious university characterized byGenetic determinism coexists children would have grown to Decline and Fall of the Chris­identity in the Catholic as well such ambivalence and pretensevery well with the belief in the attend the University of Notre tian College," traced the com­as the Protestant universities. can resist the secularizing ten­presence of human life in the Dame, or to become professors pleted process of secularization dency Fr. Burtchaell describes. 
womb, and is subsequently re­in the Philosophy department. 
of Vanderbilt, Harvard and In 1967, Notre Dame and
flected in Catholic tradition and Rob Schlosser other originally Protestant uni­other Catholic universities The decision of the Congre­
Scripture. Cavanaugh Hall 
versities and the still incom­changed to secular status. They gation to "give away" Notre
Please note that when Mary Aug.27,1992 
plete process by which Catholic also declared that year, at Land Dame was well intended. But, are moving toward O'Lakes, Wisconsin, that to 25 years later, Fr. Burtchaell's the same end. "perform its teaching and re­analysis fairly raises the ques­The message of the article, search functions effectively, the tion of whether it ought to be unfortunately, was obscured by Catholic university must have a reversed, so that the Congre­the controversy over Fr. true autonomy and academic gation of Holy Cross will be en­Burtchaell's resignation. freedom in the face of authority abled and required to act with 
With respect to his personal of whatever kind, lay or cleri­full and formal accountability situation, Fr. Burtchaell ac­cal, external to the academic for the maintenance of the knowledges that he acted community itself." Catholic character of Notre wrongly although he claims Dame. that "other unrelated reasons of One consequence of [the my own persuaded me...to Catholic university's essential Professor Rice is a professor submit my resignation." relationship to the church is in the Law School. His column 
He, in turn, was wronged by that the institutional fidelity of appears every other Monday. the public "outing" of damaging the university to the Christian 
DOON~SRURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 


-~------~.~----------------~------.
----~~------------------------------~--------­
Accent 

Monday,August31, 1992 page 9 
Adream come true 
The Observer/John Bingham 
Notre Dame freshman Alex Montoya recently fought the Immigration and Naturalization Service to gain United States' residency, enabling him to attend the University this year. 
By CHRIS HANIFIN status. "We were told the government According to Montoya, attending adjusted to dorm life as well. "The 
Accent Writer views the disabled as a liability.We Notre Dame had been his dream for guys in St. Ed's have been fantastic, 
decided I would stay here surrepti-years. and my dream of a big family atmo-
Notre Dame freshman Alex tiously," Montoya said. "I wanted to attend a school with a sphere has come true." Montoya spent the summer fearing His plans changed when the time family atmosphere-! didn't just want Academics at Notre Dame have deportation by the Immigration and came to apply to college, where legal to be a number somewhere. I was impressed Montoya. "Minds are Naturalization Service to his native United States' residency is usually also impressed with the CSC (Center challenged in classes. I have always country Columbia, but now he is a required, Montoya said. -----------------------------wanted to be a United States' citizen. With a San Diego journalist 'I know people are Often not COmfortable scholar, learning 
Challenged by being born without 
~~~~!ot~~~~d ~~se~;~s~~ around me, but I don't want them to look ~~~ori~~~ fal~~.!
arms and a right leg, Montoya spent his youth in Columbia, where doctors the Immigration and upon me sympathetically. I don't mind he said. told his parents he had little chance Naturalization Service (INS) lk' b h' PI k . , Montoya is 
for survival. and anxiously awaited his ta rng a out t rngs. ease as questions. currently interested "The doctors had never really seen hearing. The INS was more of -Alex Montoya ~n a care~r in 
someone so disabled," said Montoya. a help than a burden to him J o u r n a 1 1 s m . "Columbian society was unopen to in his quest for citizenship by for Social Concerns). I felt that here "Journalism can make a difference," the disabled, and both the medical providing a lawyer and suspending helping was the rule rather than the he said, recalling the journalist who and educational facilities were his deportation, according to exception," he said. helped make his dream of citizenship inadequate,"he added. Montoya. Montoya feels he has adapted well possible by publicizing his case. 
After moving to California, "It was all a big weight over my to college life. Arriving on campus in In addition, Montoya is an assistant Montoya's aunt and Shriners Hospital head, but I prayed and trusted the early July, he took part in the Aetna coach with the St. Ed's football team in Los Angeles helped Alex to Lord. My lawyer told me I had the Program which attempts to orient and plans to work with the CSC. recognize his abilities and to use strongest case he had ever first-year minority students to the Montoya is extremely comfortable them to the fullest, he said. seen,"Montoya said. College of Arts and Letters or the with his disability, and noted that it is 
"My Aunt has taught me the lessons Things went his way, and Montoya College of Business Administration. more fitting to call him of life. She's really been a mother to expresses a genuine love for both his "NO has been fantastic with both "handicapable" than handicapped. me. She taught me to accept the new country and his new school. finances and services. I appreciate "I know people are often not difficulties that I face, but to always "I hate to hear people put down the their help beyond words," Montoya comfortable around me, but I don't be determined," said Montoya. U.S. Maybe we are prejudiced or said. want them to look upon me 
Living in San Diego, Montoya and have poor leadership, but we are all The University has sought to sympathetically. I don't mind talking his aunt pursued legal citizenship, still blessed to be in the United provide help where it could through about things. Please ask questions-it but they were told that the disabled States,in general, and at Notre Dame measures such as special doorknobs is the only way to break through were never granted legal resident in particular, Montoya said. and widened stairs. Montoya has barriers," Montoya said. 

Holy Cross Hall gains a new family 
By ELIZABETH MARTIN from the University of Warfield is also a wife and Warfield says she has this year, as well as a place 
Accent Writer Wisconsin-Oshkosh. Her mother. Warfield's family realized that Saint Mary's is that promotes "positive social primary area of interest lies lives in an apartment in the not a typical college. Yet, just activities for men and in student development. basement of Holy Cross Hall like in other colleges "the women." 
There are men living on and dorm life is quite a women here at Saint Mary's Saint Mary's campus. For the past four years, change for Warfield's have high goals and Warfield says the continued 
As the new Residence Hall Warfield worked as an husband, who has never expectations and are willing success of Saint Mary's Director in Holy Cross Hall elementary and high school lived on a college campus. to go for what they want to remains at the top of her list and advisor for the residence counselor primarily dealing Her son, A.J., will be three­achieve." of goals and ideas. hall associatiWI, Patty with substance abuse and years-old in October and Warfield has brought her eating disorders. Warfield says "he loves being Warfield's goals include re­Other Saint Mary's husband, Andy, and her a part of all the action in the modeling the Holy Cross residence life changes three-year-old son, A.J., to "I thought the move to hall." parlors and she hopes to include Colleen McKenna as live with her among students Saint Mary's would allow me "keep Holy Cross running as the new Residence Director in the dorm. to delve more deeply into the Though their living an active hall and a of McCandless Hall and 
issues of women," Warfield situation may seem unusual continued place where AnnMarie Jordan, formerly 
Warfield, a Wisconsin said. to students at Saint Mary's, women want to live." She Residence Director of native, has a master's degree Warfield maintains that it is would like to see Holy Cross McCandless Hall, will now be in science and education with But in addition to her a part of many college become the home of more the Residence Director in an emphasis in counseling duties in Residence Life, campuses today. service oriented activities LeMans Hall. 
I page 10 The Observer I Usual sleeper in Williamsport
I 
I WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. (AP) -we got seven runs, I knew we nal two runs in the sixth on two I Another year, another blowout were going to make it." singles, a walk and a sacrifice I 
loss for the Americans at the The title marked the 21st time fly. Uttle League World Series. in 26 years that Little League's "This is something for the 
Taiwan wasn't here this year, Far East champion has won the Philippines," said Lugay, whose but the team that beat them in World Series title. Taiwan won team was the first from the the Asian qualifying round -15 of the 21. country to make a World Series. 
the Philippines -was a worthy The star of the game was Ian ''I'm sure everybody in the replacement. Tolentino, who hit a two-run Philippines is celebrating." 
The Zamboanga City team homer in the first inning and Tolentino (1-0) gained the vic­sent 11 batters to the plate in pitched three innings of strong tory because starter Ignacio the first inning against Long relief to earn the decision. Ramacho didn't pitch the re­Beach, Calif.. and picked up It was 8-0 in the·third when quired four innings. Ryan seven quick runs en route to a Ryan Stuart gave the Americans Beaver (1-1), who left the game 15-4 win. some hope with a grand slam after four innings, took the loss. 
"In essence, they just jumped that cut the deficit in half. on us real fast. It was difficult "When the score was 8-4, I Tolentino was brought on to to make a recovery," said Long think the mood in the dugout pitch after the Americans 
Beach manager Larry Lewis was a bit optimistic," Lewis mounted their most serious 
"I knew in the first inning we said. "Then they exploded for threat of the game. Sean were going to win the tourna­five runs and that pretty much Burroughs reached on an error ment," Philippine manager took the wind out of our sails." and Ryan walked. Tolentino Rudy Lugay said. "We had not The Philippines batted around walked Dane Mayfield before 
made a run in the first inning again in the fourth and took a Stuart hit his homer just off the (in previous games), so when 13-4 lead. They added their fi-left field wall. 

Monday,August31, 1992 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
PLEASE HELP ME!!! I lost my  Roommate needed for Oak Hill  !HELP! My little bro & his 3 friends  HELP!! Need 1 MICH GA  TEC TEC  
great-grandmother's long silver NOTICES necklace with a Virgin Mary charm.  condo. All utilities included. Rent negotiable. Call Jon or Mark at  are flying out from NY and I REALLY need to get them 4 Mich.  Call Scott at x4243 Good price  TEENS ENCOUNTER CHRIST IN SOUTH BEND AREA ARE VERY  
Great sentimental value. Reward.  272-8563.  tickets! PLEASE HELP! call Julie  HAPPY TO WELCOME NOTRE  
For more information and #4419.  x4042  PLEASE PLEASE.  DAME/ST. MARY'S STUDENTS  
assistance regarding the  Roomates wanted: quiet, clean 2-3  I NEED MICH. GA'S.  WHO WISH TO JOIN US HERE.  
investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home WANTED opportunities, THE OBSERVER  BR house. $150 plus util. Lv msg for David 239-6963  ""'Diane's big sis is coming out for the Michigan game-she is unbelievably cool. She lives for ND  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM, OR 272-3753 AFTER 5.  CALL 277-2535. $$$MICHIGAN$$$  
urges its readers to contact the  football, and will live for you if you  SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL.  I WILL PAY LARGE SUMS  
Better Business Bureau of LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP NEEDS Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., PART-TIME HELP. CLOSE TO  FOR SALE  sell her a student or GA ticket-please please please!!!!  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 708­ OF $$$ FOR G.A. 's & STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­CAMPUS. CALL CHAD AT 282­ Price negotiable. Call 4059.  251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR  PLEASE, PLEASE HELP ME  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­3727 FOR MORE INFO.  1987 V-4 Taurus, loaded, great  Thanks!'""  MARK RUST AT 708-982-1776.  $$$CALL x 2 4 54$$$  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  shape. 1-owner. Call 291-8999.  
WANTED: Swiming teacher tor  Dad needs 2 GAs tor Stanford.  I NEED 2 GA MICHIGAN TICKETS  Hey Niff  
*SENIORS* ultra-frightened non-swimer. Call  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR,  He's willing to pay big $$$. Call  I HAVE MONEY!  
DISORIENTATION WEEK 289-5358, it interested.  TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE  Chris R. at x1179.  CALL SUSAN 289-6485  There will be a mandatory meeting  
TUES: CLASS DINNER@  SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR,  tor all Irish Gardens employees on  
MACRI'S CHILD CARE NEEDED: Every  TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE  Desparately Need 5 Purdue and  NEED 2 MICH GA'S! I'll be honest.  Sept. 2 at7:00 pm at the store.  
WED: BRIDGET'S SENIOR NITE Tuesday 2:15;8:15 pm. 2 boys, 8 &  SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY  2 Penn State GA's.  I can't afford huge prices. Thanks!  
THURS: BECON BOWL & free 11. Call Prof. Hall @ 288-3034.  FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Call Dan at 273-1497  Call Judy, 239-6515.  It you have any questions contact  
T-Shirts  272-5959  Maureen at ext. 2670.  
FRI-SAT: NORTHWESTERN FLUTE/SAX TUTOR FOR 15­ WILLING TO TRADE 2 TICKETS  NEED TIX TO ND-MICH x3373  
ROADTRIP---9ame ticket, YEAR-OLD. 1 HOUR PER WEEK, transpo,Second City, & hotel-$65 TRANSPORT ARRANGED. CALL @ LaFortune INFO. DESK EVE. 287-7449.  "*********CARPETS********** *******'****CARPETS********.. ***********CARPETS********** ***********FOR SALE********••  TO NO'S HOME GAME ON SEPT. 5 FOR 2 TICKETS TO ANOTHER HOME GAME. PLEASE CALL 317­776-2639.  FREE MONEY If you can provide me with 5-1 0 MICH GAs tor 5th year reunion  To the Lodge crew-the couch looks great. Sitting on lhe floor is highly under-rated, anyway. Thanks tor your help--pshaw.  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE  In excellent condition and very  Call Jeff @ 283-3306  J&D :)  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE  cheap.  OKAY, I'M BEGGING ... My parents  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE  Please call 289-5563.  will pay big for Mich. tickets!$$$  I have U2 (Chi) tickets. I want PSU  Hey!! Do You Play Drums??  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 AND OWN CAR. PART TIME  Call #4419.  tickets, TRADE?  Well then give us a hand. Call Rob  
DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­ Loft tor SALE, price neog., Call Beth  Dan x1374.  at 1441 and help us start an original  
THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE IS 2201.  at283-2689  """NEED TIX"*""  band. Thanks tor reading  
AVAILABLE FOR CREDIT, see  Need 2 student tix tor Michigan.  NEED MICHIGAN GAs  this, good night.  
p.43,all student levels, no overload. Female student seeks roommates  VCR tor SALE, Call Beth at 283­ Please call Ann at x2821.  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER  
Information call ex6211/288-4919. to share a 3 bdr townhouse 2mls from ND. Call Karen 239-5608/  2689  Will TRADE 4 PURDUE GAs for  PLEASE HELP KYLE 234 9433  I thought I would say hello to my buddy.  
MATH TUTOR-AIIIevels-271­271-1486.  One Way Plane Ticket!!!  4 BOSTON COLLEGE GAs.  
1532-Joe  To Seattle via Mpls/St Paul Sept 1  Please call Robin at x2867.  ALUM NEEDS TIX FOR MICH.,  "TOP TEN OZARKS QUOTES"  
PLEASE! Help me. I need two GA's  Must Sell Only $80. x4174.  STANFORD, PENN ST. CALL DAN  1. "Mrs. Butterworth will decide."  
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship for Michigan. $$ X3762  Have 4 Penn St. GA  (312) 868-0009.  2."Skier!! Skier!! Oh, it's you guys."  
invites you to the 1st Group Meeting SITTER TO CARE FOR 6 AND  COMPUTER: Epson Equity dual floppy, monitor, printer. $550 or  Will trade tor 4 Mich GA Call Bo at 3502  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  3. "Benedict Barnidge-murderer! Murderer!"  
7:30 pm, Wednesday, Sept. 2 9-YR-OLD;TUES. AND WEDS.  offer. Lv msg tor David at 239-6963  Will pay crazy cash tor ND  4. "She drew a sttck-shift."  
Siegfried Chapel 2:15-4 OR 5PM. MUST HAVE OWN fun, music, bible study & more TRANSPORTATION  MAC CLASSIC  WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­ -Michigan GA's. Call Paul at 289-6648.  5. "We're Notre Dame chicks, and we're drinking, smoking, and  
?, call Kevin at 1384, Lisa at 4290 (ABOUT 3M I FROM ND).CALL  WITH EXT. KEYBOARD AND  MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN  naked!"  
JANET 271-9934  MUCH SOFTWARE  DESPERATE NEED!! 708-843­ 6. "This is inside animals I like to  
*SENIORS*  CALL JOHN AT 271-2908  6947.  Badly Need MICHIGAN Tix!!l!  sleep with."  
NORTHWESTERN ROADTRIP WANTED: BIG USED BACKPACK  Please Call 273-1758  7. "Jahnelle-enough with the  
Sept. 4-5 FOR EURO TRIP. CALL CARRIE AT X2812 TO TALK$$.  TICKETS  $$ I Need MICH TIX!! $$ please please please please  Ask tor Doug  stories-just flip the card." 8. "Who is that Larry?"  
Includes:  Call Dennis@ 283·1577  DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET  9. "It catches sh-.  
Game ticket in ND Student section BONNIE DOON  PLEASE HELP:  JUST ONE!! Student or GA.  10."What happened to the  
Transportation HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE Hotel Downtown Friday FOR SERVERS, COOKS  My dad would like to see one Michigan game before I graduate  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE  Call Tim x4116  quarter?!"  
Second City Ticket AND FOUNTAIN  and need tickets.  AT 618-439-3338.  4 sets G.A.s For SALE! 272-7034  HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY  
Apply in person to:  Call Mike 283-1161  JOSHY!!!  
*65* 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend  TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$  HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov.  
4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  NORTHWESTERN TIX FOR SALE  $$$1 DEPERATEL Y N E E D  7 BC game. Please call x3799.  
*Purchase tickets @LAFORTUNE  CALL JOE X1760  6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$  Thanks.  To ALL students in last semester's  
INFO DESK* uytjtjfjhfjhfhfjhfcjhcjhc  please, please, please, please  PHIL 302: If you need any help or  
I NEED ND FOOTBALL  CALL X2454  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  just someone to talk to, I'm STILL  
I ·I FOR RENT LOST & FOUND I 3 BEDRM FURNISHED, 922  TICKETS.272-6306 WANTED: 2 TIX NO-MICH. WILL PAY. CALL 904-630-6346. I'LL CALL BACK ON MY WATS.  HELP A SENIOR! Need 4-5 GEN or STD tkt tor U MICH. Last Hope tor family! Tim @289-5196  GOOD ND\MICHIGAN GA's 2773097 Trade 3 tix and get 4! Give me 3 Mich GAs I will give you 2 Brig.  here tor you in carrel #828 -T.H. Make great money in your extra time as a representative for The Collegiate Investment Association.  
NOTRE DAME. 288-3942 OR 289­ CHUCK WHITE.  HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's  Young + 2 Boston or Penn GAs.  Minimal time required. Great  
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET, 6146 AFTER AUG. 27.  NEED MICH and/or  Call 271-5618 any day before noon.  opportunity to make extra money  
LINKED CHAIN, WITH THE NAME  DESPERATELY SEEKING 2  WHOLE STUD. BOOKS  and add good experience to your  
NICOLE ON THE TOP AND A Room tor rent in sate neighborhood HEART CHARM ATTACHED. IF 3 miles from campus. Phone,  MICHIGAN GA'S. WILL OFFER FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL LISA  288-1027 -MARK  PERSONAL  resume. For details call (708) 533­0765.  
FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT NIKI water, cat-petting privileges  (COLLECT) AT (509) 534-4227.  
VOELZ AT 244 KNOTT, PHONE included. $275 plus halt electric.  I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S  FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00,  MARGE  
,-­ 4945. Call Susan 271-0413.  TWO USC TICKETS FOR SALE CALL AMY@ 272-6264  DESPERATELY WILL PAY  Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners welcome. First meeting September  JOSH:  
LOST: BLACK CARRYALL BAG.  CALL MIKE AT X 2209  1st. Equipment provided. $80 per  Happy Birthday to our favorite  
It contains my VISA, glasses, and BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  $$$ PAY LOTS of MONEY $$$  semester.  "New West" Man!  
many other things important to me. 219-291-7153  For Many MICH TIX!I  WANT TO MAKE A BUCK?  Love, Your Babes in BP!  
If found, please take to International  Call ED at X1002  I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS!  Senor Serpiente,  
Student Organization on the second Share 2-BR Home with Male Grad  WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  !Feliz Cumpleanos! Muchas  Need BC tix, student and GAs. Call  
floor of LaFortune. Student. $260 plus phone. Jeff  Need two tickets for Stanford game  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO  gracias que no me expulsaste.  283-4271  
288-3878 Leave a message.  next to each other. Please call 283­ AT x3587.  Con Carino,  
LOST: set of keys on round blue  GOLF. Thanx!  Una Perkita  Boobie, Don't be down about the  
and gold ND keychain at Bridget's need somebody to sublet my trtle  $$$$  ankle. Keep your spirits up and your  
on Tuesday night. Please call creek apt( furnished studio) ;call  Will pay big bucks for ND -MICH  NEED 3 MICH TIXI CALL KIRSTIN  '**HAPPY BIRTHDAY JOSH!'**  time will come. Love ya,  
Christine or Mary x2297 ASAP!!! Kevin at 273-8434  G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561.  X4281  Love, Michelle  Baby Girl  


----------------~------~----------­

Monda~August31, 1992 The Observer page 11 

Ejections mar Cub's victory 
CHICAGO (AP) -Chicago Cubs manager Jim Lefebvre and right-hander Frank Castillo had different explanations for a "payback" pitch that led to ejections for both. 
"When somebody drills one of our players, you've got to pay them back. It's just baseball," Lefebvre said after the Cubs' 7­2 victory over the San Francisco Giants on Saturday. "I didn't order him to do it. He knew what to do. It's a payback." 
After Giants reliever Jeff Brantley hit Steve Buechele with a pitch in the sixth inning, Castillo hit Robby Thompson in the seventh, bringing an auto­matic ejection for both pitcher and manager. 
Castillo, who won his second consecutive start after failing to record a victory in nine starts from June 28 until Aug. 24, denied purposely hitting Thompson. 
"I just wanted to throw strikes and be aggressive," Castillo said. "I had gotten him out on an inside pitch the last time he was up." 
Both benches cleared when Buechele was hit following back-to-hack homers by Mark Grace and Andre Dawson, but umpires kept the two sides 
apart. Chicago's Rey Sanchez and Ryne Sandberg also hit back-to-hack homers in the eighth. 
Meanwhile, Giants general manager AI Rosen was holding a closed door meeting in the clubhouse after his team's fifth consecutive loss and ninth in 12 games. 
"I talked about playing with pride and ego," Rosen said. "I just feel Giants fans are entitled to more. I don't think I've ever vented my anger so much." 
Dawson had four hits and three RBis to lead Chicago's 13­hit attack. 
"The offense is starting to gel, coming up with some big hits," Lefebvre said. 
Castillo (8-10) gave up four hits, including homers to Kirt Manwaring and Mark Leonard, walked two and struck out two in six-plus innings. On Monday, he beat San Diego 6-3 after going nearly two months with­out a victory. 
Bob Scanlan got the last four outs for his 12th save in 14 op­portunities. 
Giants starter Dave Burba (2­7). recalled Wednesday from Phoenix of the Pacific Coast League, lasted only 2 2-3 in­ings, giving up three runs, six hits and a walk. 
Chicago, which has won 10 of its last 14 games, took a 1-0 lead in the first on singles by Sandberg, Dawson and Buechele. 
After Sanchez and Sandberg singled in the third, Dawson de­livered a two-run double. Sanchez, slow to react to the hit, scored only a few steps ahead of Sandberg. 
Manwaring homered to cen­ter leading off the fifth for his second of the season. Leonard hit his fourth homer, also to center, in the sixth to cut San Francisco's deficit to 3-2. 
Grace hit his eighth homer to right in the sixth and Dawson followed with his 18th to left. 
"We took advantage of the winds," Grace said. "The winds were blowing out for a change this year." 
Sanchez and Sandberg com­pleted the scoring with back-to­hack homers off Francisco Oliveras in the eighth. It was Sanchez's first homer in the majors and Sandberg's 16th of the season. 
"Those would have been outs yesterday with the winds blowing in," San Francisco manager Roger Craig said. 

············_·.·· 1¥0'·< •••. -·.····· }> •. . . •·.·.
s remain 4-1/2 back despite weekend svccess against Blue Jays 
TORONTO (AP) -The Milwaukee Brewers got the all-time .hit. ord. in the A~erican . ·· nd.the Toronto Bl ys got back pne of th ague's top pitchers. 
However, neither team man· aged to get any closer to their goal than when the four-game series beganTl).msday. 
Following 's 5-3 vic-; "With the split they're going pack out the same way they q~e in here -4 1/2 ga_mes hehiJtd us:' 
U.'mighi not have looked that way at several points during the series. 
After Toronto took a 5-4 vic­tory on Thursday, the Brewers got a league-record 31 hits for a 22-2 win on Friday. Then on Saturd:J;ty, Milwaukee pounded 

t<)tY, on Stit1 lllue·~llYtl. :ih'l'or9rtt0:'$ latest a(:quisirion, 
>remained 4 __ .··.·. <s.in front pitcher David Cone, for seven of Milwaukee b:rthe American runs and seven hits in a 7-2 League East.The Baltimore victory. Orioles are J 1/2 games -.. However, Toronto came behind Toronto:; -bMk with a perfect remedy 
Now, with, for their ailing pitching staff remainifi:g • season, whenJuan Guzman cameoff Milwaukee other ~~·' isabled list with four f::hil.nce to d·.on, .•_..-.... ·. .. g..!nnings in his frrst $tart 
"Totonto fa The S:iftt~ Aug. 3. Brewers t the season "It was great to see Juan series with the Blue Jays 7-5. come back from the disabled 
"They played us· tough and list and pitch like the Juan of dumped on us the last two old," said Joe Carter, whose games, butw_·_._e___P_.l___ a_·_._Y_edw.ell t_o-tw_o_-r__un homer in the third_ 
day and showed that we have Sunday gave Toronto a 4-1 
have some . r/' said · Toronto .t!:!ll. .. ... . Henk1:1,. didWt seem to mlss a who go\ tb,e three-puts e . was aS dominating as Sunday Cor 24th save.•i hew sbeiore he got hurt." 
Smooth putting stroke leads Stadler past Pavin, Cook 
AKRON, Ohio (AP) -After beating Corey Pavin by one shot and darkness by a smaller margin, Craig Stadler offered a novel idea for pro golf's deci­sion-makers: 
Schedule starting times early enough to get the various tour­naments finished in daylight. 
"It just makes sense to me," Stadler said Sunday after his victory in weather-disrupted World Series of Golf. 
Then he shrugged. "But then, what do I know? I'm just a player," he said. 
In darkness, Stadler dropped a 12-foot, par-saving putt on the final hole to complete a hard-won round of 70 and a 273 total, one ahead of Pavin who closed with a 65. 
"I put as much pressure on him as I could, but he made a great putt on the last hole," Pavin said. 
It was even better considering that it rolled into the cup at 8 
p.m. (EDT). 
"It was so dark I wasn't sure I was reading it right," Stadler said. Had he missed it, a tie with Pavin would have resulted, and a sudden death playoff would have followed. 
It would have followed on Monday, because PGA Tour of­ficials already had decided it was too dark to continue. 
The round was delayed over two hours because of a storm which set Stadler's tee time back to 4:21 p.m. 
"I sat around the locker room reading the paper for four hours. I was down to the classi­fieds," Stadler said before ap­pealing for an adjustment in the starting times. 
Officials usually set times to provide a finish that coincides with the national network tele­cast of the tournament, usually ending late in the day. 
But no leeway is made for weather which, PGA Tour Commissioner Deane Beman 


noted, has caused delays "in something like 70 or 80 percent of our tournaments this year." 
"With a small field like this ( 45 title-winners from around the world), they could have started them early in the day, taped it, edited it, had a good package," Stadler said. 
"Then, if you get weather ­and they had a forecast that said they were going to get weather-you've still got some time to play with. 
"In this case, they could have finished on time." 
As it was, the cameras ended their coverage with the leaders still on the front nine and the tournament very much unset­tled. 
Stadler took care of that with a magnificent approach shot on the par-5 16th, using a 3-iron to go under and around trees and back into the fairway. 
From there, he hit a sand wedge to tap-in distance for the go-ahead birdie; the third time in the day he'd broken a tie. 
Stadler had a chance to go 
two up on the 17th, but missed a 4-footer, then went to the 18th needing a par in the dark for victory. 
He got in trouble off the tee again, found a bunker with his approach and came out to 12 feet, downhill and a right-to-left breaker. 
Stadler stroked the putt, then his bulky shoulders slumped. "I thought I'd missed it," he said. 
But the ball caught the lip on the low side, hung for a mo­ment, then dropped, making Stadler the first two-time win­ner of this title since the tour­nament went to a 72-hole for­mat 17 years ago. 
Fred Couples, who won the Masters and two other titles early this season, got away to a birdie-eagle start and once was tied for the lead. 
But he couldn't keep pace with Stadler down the stretch and was third at 275 after a 68. 
John Cook, a runner-up in both the British Open and PGA, was the only other man in the field of 45 winners from around the world to finish under par. He had a closing 68 and was two under for the tournament at 278. 
Nick Price, making his first start since winning the PGA, shot 72 and tied for fifth at 280 with David Peoples, who had a closing 74. 

Indiana Auto Insurance Ourgood rateS may save you money. Call ror aqoote 9-5,289-1993. Office near camp..~s. 
•

:Maple Lane: :Sarber Shop: 
: servin9 tfre 'J{ptre 'Daml community for: : Oflt.r 30 years : 
* 2112 South Bend Avenue * .. 
• M . , >*
*(across from the new artm s * : 272-6722 : 
··················~ 

-~-------------~­

-------------~-­
page 12 

Toney defeats McCallum, retains middleweight title 
RENO, Nev. (AP) -James Toney, who fought Mike McCallum to a classic draw the last time they met, escaped with his middleweight title again Saturday night with a majority decision win in a lackluster 12-round bout. 
Toney fought an uninspired fight but it was enough to beat the aging McCallum, who tired in the later rounds to lose for only the second time in his pro career. 
Unlike their first fight in December, when they fought toe to toe in a thrilling 12­round draw, the rematch was so dull that the crowd was booing both fighters. 
Judge Phil Newman had the fight 114-114, but judge Doug Tucker had Toney winning 117­110 and Tom McDonough had him ahead 118-110. The Associated Press had Toney winning 114-113. 
It was Toney's sixth defense of the International Boxing Federation 160-pound title he won in May 1991 from Michael

i 
Nunn, while McCallum lost for

I 
I only the second time in 14 title I fights. I "A win is a win," Toney said. 
I 
"I wanted to take it easy and be 

I 
smooth about it." 

I 
Take it easy Toney did, almost

I 
I to the point in the early rounds I where he appeared to be I 
sleepwalking.

I 
McCallum did his share to

I 
make it a long night also,

I 
I 
adopting a strategy of throwing I left jabs and then trying to fight I 
inside while launching very few 

I 
right hands. "You give it your best, but 116-110, that's ridiculous,"

f 
McCallum said. "I feel I won."

I 
I The 35-year-old McCallum, I who was stripped of his World 
I 
Boxing Association title when

I 
he fought Toney the first time I r for refusing to pay a sanction I fee, actually landed more I punches than Toney, according
I 
to stats computed by

I 
Compubox.

I 
McCallum landed 332 of 849 

I 
punches, or 39 percent, to 232 
of 714, or 32 percent, for 
Toney. 
Toney's punches were the harder ones, although neither fighter was ever in trouble and there were no knockdowns. 
Toney, who improved to 32-0­2, was paid $750,000 for the ti­tle defense, while McCallum, who fell to 43-2-1, received $525,000. 
Both fighters weighed 158 for the bout at the Reno Convention Center. 
In another title fight, Tracy Spann knocked down and bloodied Fred Pendleton, but left the ring without the IBF lightweight title for which the two were fighting. 
Pendleton didn't win it either after the 135-pound fight was ruled a technical draw when a clash of heads in the second round opened a cut that spurted blood into Pendleton's right eye. 
Ring doctor James McClennan recommended the fight be stopped at 2:05 of the round as blood gushed from a deep cut over Pendleton's eye. 

Spann, thinking he had won the bout, celebrated by jumping.. on the ring ropes and raising his arms in triumph. Then he watched in disbelief as the fight for the vacant title was ruled a technical draw. 
Under IBF rules, if an acci­dental foul forces a fight to be stopped, the fight is ruled a technical draw if the injury oc­curs in the first six rounds. 
"We'll settle it again," said Pendleton, who got into a shouting match with Spann's relatives after the fight was stopped. 

The cut may have been the best thing to happen to Pendleton, the IBF No. 1 con­tender. He was knocked down by a Spann left hand midway through the first round and lost the round 10-8 on the score­cards of all three ringside judges. 
Pendleton, an 11-5 favorite to win the title vacated by Pernell Whitaker, recovered to last the round and fought better in the second round when the two boxers accidentally clashed heads while fighting on the ropes. 
Blood immediately started flowing from the cut and ref­eree Richard Steele called halt to the action so McClennan could look at the injury. The ring doctor recommended Steele stop the fight, much to the chagrin of Pendleton. 
"I had him out in the first round," said Spann, the second­ranked lightweight. "But he's a tough guy." 
Pendleton, of Philadelphia, said the head butt that opened the cut was one of many he re­ceived during the short fight. 
"He had his head up like a peacQck," Pendleton said. "I was trying to protect myself from the head and the punches. 
1992 Activities Night 
Tuesday, September 1 7 pm-10 pm J.A.C.C. (Gate 3) 
Over 150 Clubs & Organizations To Meet Your Interests 
•Music Clubs 
•Athletic 
Societies 

•Special 
Interest Clubs 

•Academic 
Clubs 


•Social/Service Organizations 
•Ethnic Clubs 
•Media Organizations 
Meet New Friends Get Involved in the Spirit ofNDISA1C 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Rec Sports, Club Coordination Council and the Center for Social Concerns 
Did you go on a high school retreat? Are you ready to take the next step? 
For a closer relationship with God For a better understanding of Christianity For good Christian friendships For a way to change the world 
At activities night stop by 
The Campus Fellowship booth 
L-------------------------------­

The Observer Monday, August 31 , 1992 
NC State tops Iowa in Classic 
EASt RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -Steve Videtich kicked a tie-breaking 46-yard field goal with 6:50 remaining and Terry Jordan added a clinching 5­yard touchdown pass as North Carolina State beat No. 16 lowa a4~14 Saturday night in the Kickoff Classic. 
Videtich, a sophomore, gave 
N.C. State a 17-14 lead by con­necting on his first collegiate field goal attempt. The Wolfpack regained possession on an JnterceptJon by Mike Reid and. drove 34 yards for the clinching S(;ore ...;,.. a 5-yard pass from Jordan to Eddie Goines with 1:53 remaining. 
Jordan, who missed seven games last season with a bro­ken left arm, completed 15 of 24 pa,sS(l'sfor 160 yards and one touchdown. The sen~or also rushed 13 times for 71 yards in the season opener for both teams. 
It was the second Kickoff Classic defeat for Iowa, which lost the 1987 game to. Tennessee 23·22. N.C. State was playing in its first Kickoff Classic. 
After a wide-open first half 
Please Register to Vote 
University or Notre D~mc 
tnlcrnallon.a.l 
Study Progr-<~m In 


Danan Hughes 
that ended in a 14-14 tie, the game turned into a defensive struggle for most of the second half. 
N.C. State scored in the opening half on a Z·yard run 
by Gary Downs and a 49-yard dash by Anthony Barbour ....,. 
the longest run in the 10·year history of the Kickoff Classic. 
Both of Iowa's touchdowns came on second-quarter passes from Jim Hartlieb to Danan Hughes, who set a school record for career TD receptions with 17. Hughes, who comes from nearby Bayonne. N.J., had scoring catches of 23 and 9 yards. 
Hartlieb, whose brother, Chuck, quarterbacked Iowa in the 1987 Kickoff Classic, com­pleted 22 of 34 passes for 212 yards with two interceptions. 
N.C. State scored on its first possession of the game when Downs capped an 8-play. 81­yard march with his short TD run. The key play in the drive was a 33-yard run by Jordan that brought the ball to the Iowa 17. 
Iowa tied it midway through the second period on the 23~ yard toss from Hartlieb to Hughes, who caught a crossing pass on the State 11 and outraced several defenders to the end zone. 
State came back and took a 
.14·7 lead on the next series when Barbourtook a pitch
from Jordan, split two tacklers and raced down the right side­
line for a touchdown. 
Hughes' second TD catch, with 4:47 left in the half, tied it at 14. The senior, who had seven catches for 87 yards, ran a slant pattern and made a diving catch in the end zone. 

Monday Evening, August 31 at 6:00pm Satellite I, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer question' 
~--------·-------------------. 
lJPcoming Events 
MONDAY. AUGUST 31 
DR. PETER A. WILDERER, 
Professor of Water 
Management Safety, 
Techn. Universit!it Munchen, 
Munich, Germany 
"APPLICATION OF WASTE WATER CONTROL TECHNOLOGIES TO EASTERN EUROPE" 
Cosponsored with the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control 
8:00p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL


.1111 PEACE STUDIES 
UNIVERSITY OF NOfRE DAM£ 
I II 


________,....,...~~-~---------,1 
Monday, August 31 , 1992 The Observer page 13 

Raiders, Steelers win as NFL preseason concludes 
(AP) -Not since last Dec. 1 had the Los Angeles Raiders won a football game. That changed on Saturday when, thanks to the Nick Bell's 2-yard touchdown run with 2:05 to play, Los Angeles beat the 

Merril Hoge, shown here against Miami, and the Pittsburgh Stealers to ed stru lin New York Giants, 24-3, on Saturday niQht. 
Happy 21st Cath! 

You did it! 
Love, the Quinns 
Catch the Action! 




Notre Dame vs. Northwestern September 5th 
Round trip bus transportation to Soldier Field (Buses leave at 10 am from CCE) 
Tickets: $1 0 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to game available at the JACC Athletic Box Office 
Houston Oilers 30-26. 
The Raiders lost their final three games of the 1991 season, the AFC wild-card game and their first three exhibition games before finally getting into the win column. 
"This win came at a real good time for us," said Raiders quar­terback Jay Schroeder, who completed seven of 10 passes for 92 yards and one touchdown without being intercepted while playing the first half against the Oilers. "I think we looked a lot crisper today. Next week, we start shooting live bullets." 
In another Saturday game on the last weekend of exhibition play, the Pittsburgh Steelers beat the New York Giants 24-3, and Minnesota trounced Washington 30-0. 
The weekend began Thursday with the New York Jets beating Philadelphia 22-13, New Orleans beating Miami 17-3 and San Diego beating the Los Angeles Rams 30-19. 
On Friday, it was Cleveland 24, Tampa Bay 3; Cincinnati 34, Detroit 17; Buffalo 27, Atlanta 21; Chicago 20, Dallas 13; Indianapolis 21, Kansas City 10; San Francisco 24, Seattle 17, and Phoenix 21, Denver 17. 
The Raiders moved 82 yards in 12 plays for the winning TD after Cody Carlson's 12-yard scoring pass to Corey Harris had put the Oilers (4-1) ahead 26-23. 
Carlson's pass to Harris came two plays after Darryl Lewis intercepted Todd Marinovich's pass and returned it 16 yards to the Los Angeles 16, but Marinovich bounced back to guide the Raiders to the win­ning touchdown. 
"It was a good effort," Raiders coach Art Shell said. "They've got a football team that has been knocking people around. We did a pretty good job, especially our first-line guys." 
Bell rushed for 102 yards on 13 carries and Marinovich, playing the second half, com­pleted 10 of 18 passes for 177 yards with two interceptions. 
Ernest Givins caught two 

touchdown passes in the third quarter to put the Oilers ahead before Marinovich's long pass to Brown. 
"There are a lot of things we did real well, and there were a lot of things we were pretty bad at," Oilers coach Jack Pardee said. "As poorly as we looked that first half, we still could have come out of that thing ahead. About the season, I'm ready to get started." 
Neil O'Donnell made a claim for the starting quarterback job, capping two 11-play drives in the first half with touchdown passes of 2 and 7 yards to Eric Green. 
Former Steeler Matt Bahr's 28-yard field goal gave New 
SPORTS BRIEFS 


York a 3-0 lead in the first quarter, but O'Donnell hit Jeff Graham for 27 yards and Dwight Stone for 19 on a 92­yard drive that ended with Green's first scoring catch at 
2:48 of the period. 
Pittsburgh, winless until beating Chicago 28-17 last Sunday, then drove 64 yards on its next possession, with Barry Fosier's six carries for 43 yards setting up O'Donnell's second scoring pass to Green. 
O'Donnell completed 11 of 15 passes for 150 yards without an interception. With Jeff Hostetler still injured, Phil Simms played the first 3 1/2 qu!\fters for New York, completing eight of 11 for 124 yards and an interception. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
D~y Editor Typist 
Contact Colleen Knight at 239-5303 for more information. 

page 14 The Observer Monday,August31, 1992 

Scrimmage benefits Belles 
VanMeter optimistic despite lopsided score 
by MOYA SOMERSET Sports Writer 
The women's soccer teams from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame gathered in front of a large crowd at Alumni Field to compete in their annual scrimmage. 
The general consensus between the two teams was a good-natured scrimmage, which the Irish captured 7-1. 
"This does not really matter, it' just a scrimmage, but we get up for the game and I know that they do too. There will always be that rivalry." stated Notre Dame tri-captain Denise Chabot. " 
The Belles echoed the same feeling. 

"It is fun. There is a good, big rivalry between the two schools. Division One versus Division Three. Everyone is always up." said returning se­nior Kristin Crowley. 
Jody Hartwig scored the first goal for Notre Dame in the first of the three sets and was followed bu a host of others in the Irish scoring column. The lone Belles goal came from freshman Kim Rivers, in the second set. 
An injury to Saint Mary's se­nior Cindy Jordan marred the solid performance by the Belles. Jordan went down in the third period with what first reports called a hyper-extended knee. 
Belles coach Tom VanMeter is optimistic about this season after seeing his team perform. 
"Playing Notre Dame is a great opportunity. They are a division one team, and they play very faster. This is a learning process. The score was lopsided, but we have to adjust," stated a pleased VanMeter. "We have only had seven practices, only had since Monday. Four of our starters graduated, and everyone is playing in different positions. 
Saint Mary's next game will be a scrimmage at Valparaiso University. 

·<··'·":. ' • ·..
Bengals s1gn top draft p1ck Klingler to multi-year deal 
CINCINNATI (AP) ..._.. David Klingler. the Cincinnati Bengals' top draft pick, said Saturday he has agreed to contract terms with the team. 
The for'mer University of Houston quarterback told a Houston television station that he has agreed to a four-year deal with the Bengals. 
"We've agreed to terms and I'm heading up there tomor­row (Sunday) ... That's a good contract, a good length and I'm pleased with it," Klingler told KRIV-TV. 
"It's been rough," Klingler said. 
"For the past 19 years ~ve been playing football this time of yeat and this is th~ first time I haven't, so it kind of felt like going through a mini­retirement. But everything is back to normal." 
Klingler could not be reached independently for comment. His home telephone number is unpublished. 
Bengals general manager Mike Brown told The Cincinnati Enquirer in an interview published Sunday that he planned to meet with Klingler's agent Sunday night. 
Asked if he hoped to complete the deal at the meeting, Brown said, "Yes." 
Leigh Steinberg, Klingler's agent, issued a statement Saturday that he was "upbeat" over the progress of negotia­tions and that he is "hopeful of a signing within the next sev­eral days." 
The Enquirer said terms of the contract likely will he in neighborhood of $1.75 million 
Injuries 
continued from page 16 
captains play on the team. The three have been supportive of the younger players, but their inability to give the on the field leadership any team needs has been frustrating. 
"We go to all the practices, and participate as much as we can, but we want to be able to lead the team on the field," cQmmented Lodyga. "It's frus­trating to be injured to start our senior year, but we can't think of ourselves we have to be supportive of the players who can play." 
The title of captain, and on­field leader has been given to Andrea Kurek. The junior de­fender will serve as captain until the trio is healthy. 
Their health is an unsettled issue, as dates with doctors this week will determine the fate of the three captains. Chabot may be back as soon as a week, but Lodyga and Jarc's recover will require a bit longer. 
"I don't think that I will re­turn for at least two weeks," continued Lodyga. 
Porter status remains a mystery as she is in the fifth month of rehabilitation from reconstructive knee surgery. The process usual takes six months before a player is in as position to play Extensively. That figure is tentative, due to the delicacy of a surgery of that nature. 
The most effected bv the in-
GO IRISH! GO IRISH! 

juries has been Petrucelli, who begins his fifth year as coach. After coming close to an NCAA tournament bid last season, this year held promise as a year to put the Irish program in the national spotlight for good. 
Despite the setback brought by the injuries Petrucelli feels this still could be the season his teams makes a permanent mark on the national scene. 
"The beginning of this year will be a real challenge, with the loss of the leadership the captains brought. But if any­thing this time will give the younger players experience," said Petrucelli. "I don't think that this can't be the season we expected it to be. 
"When October roles around we are going to be a deep, sea­soned team, really ready to play." 
The seasoning of the younger players has fell into Petrucelli's arms, and what at first seemed to be a challenging task, has become easy, and also a great deal of fun. 
"You would think that I would have to do a lot more hands on coaching, but it really hasn't 

AMPUS (OPEN TO ALL N.D. STiffiENTS, FACULTY & ST~ * Co-Ree Softball* I I  
GRAD. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ONLY *Baseball* *Touch Football* *Tennis Singles-Men and Women* * Tennis Mixed Doubles *  
NOTRE DAME UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS ONLY * Football -Men and Women * *Tennis Singles-Men and Women* * Tennis Mixed Doubles * * Freshman Swim Meet * *Baseball* * 16" Softball *  

EN1RY DEADLINE: SEPI'EMBER 2 


ALUMNI

Ill 
SENIOR ~~~18888l~~~ 

~CLUB 
Open Friday for Lunch 
12~2 

Start your weekend off right! The place to be for the "Class of '93" open all Friday non--football weekends 
must be 21 

been that way," said a pleased Petrucelli. "With the talent level we have overall, I really haven't had to. Talent replaces experience, you can't teach big game experience but you can hope that talent will replace it. 
"Anytime you deal with freshmen, things are going to be exciting, and you get the satisfaction of seeing a lot more learning." 

Big game experience for the younger players will begin Saturday when the Irish travel to North Carolina State, which is considered to be among the nation's top teams. 
Happy 21st to 
"Little Ringy" 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Frisky 

F t) r S L' n i () r N u r sing Stud L' n t s 

NURSING 


HORIZO~S 
A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
October 16 & 17, 1992 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
The Future Nurses of Oz 


BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• 
Financial Planning • Preparing for Your Job Search 

• 
Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't 

• 
State Boards: Are You Ready? 


Your $10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 9, 1992 
Calll-800-545-0357 for registration information and brochure. 

Mayo Foundation is an affirmative arlion and equal ot•t••rtunity ··duwtor and <'mt•l<>y•·r. A smoke-free institution. 



I 1 I I' 1 I I I. 
Today 

Monday, August 31 , 1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

.. 


IF \'I.CllbO'( Pl\1-lOU'S Th \IS, 
W~\.l 11\R!)W 11-1£ afCT\~! WE'll '5\A~ ~Cl\'1\£! WERt. ~ISt..HtmD, \)\5B-\R<IItK\\\SED 
M·lD OI'SCW.S;:>S\JU>..\£.1)! 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
fAn order of angels 8 Telamon ruled here f5 Practical person fl Fuss over, English style 
nOne who transfers property 
f8 "I Puritani" heroine and namesakes 
f9 "Turandot" role 20Factions 22 Roman-fleuve 23 Handel hero 24 Bundle of hides 25 Cradle rocker 28 Dancer-mime 
Parenti 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~::-+::~~ 
-=+::-+:':-+-=-4 

L___________J 1-----------.J·ltiQ;o. 8 3• 

28 Baltic island, to a German 30Carryon 3f Irruptions 33 Calls it a day 35 Tinstone, e.g. 
36"­
Wednesday," Harold Lloyd 
fi!llJ 
37 Caligula and Herod 4f Released conditionally 45 Greek military gp. inW.W.II 41Conspue 
48 Milne's "When We-Very Young" 
49 Wrestler's objective 

so Part of a shandy Sf Channel between 
sandbanks 52 Horn; shaft: Sp. 54 Sky Dragon 56 English river 57 Theater districts 59 "Adagia" author If Shared annuity 12 Menu entry 63 Polisher of 
clocks' interiors 64Boxes 
DOWN 
f Sicilian seaport 2 Abode of the Muses 3 Monaco monarch 4 Founder of Kievan Russia 5 "Solar Barque" author 8 Those, in Taxco 
CAMPUS Monday 7:00 p.m. Film, "Birth of a Nation." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum .. 9:30p.m. Film, "Frankenstein." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum.  
LECTURES  
Monday 8:00 p.m. "Application of Waste Water Control Technologies to Eastern Europe." Professor Peter Wilderer, Technical University, Munich. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Sponsored by Institute for International Peace Studies and the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control. Tuesday 12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Introduction of Faculty Fellows and Institute's Programs." Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies.  
MENU  
Saint Mary's Soup and salad bar Mexican bar Lemon chicken breasts with brown rice  

7 Marks for David 
2f "The Big-,"

Ozio 1990film
8WoodyAIIen film 27 Cloverleaf lanes 9 Bothers 
28 "Night Music" fO-Bensey, in playwright"Tobacco 
29 Swiss lake 

Road" 30 Incomplete line, 
f f Flavoring for a to a printer 
Cannes cordial f2 City in SE Fla. 320rinoco f3 Scholarly tributary 
introduction to 34Pitch 
research 37Takesoff
f 4 Opening words? 38 Vowel omission 
All who are interested: Pay a visit to The Observer table at 
39 Santo Domingo's 54 Cooked 
first president sufficiently 40 Less dense 55 Son of 4f Herald Jerahrrieel: 42 Greengrocers' I Chron. 2:25 
wares 56 Mountain in 43 Deler's choice Tasmania 44 Execrates 56 E. Indian herb 47Gums eo lnst. at 53 Choir voices Savannah 
Get answers to any three clue~ by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Wt. S\~<;L£·\'SSU£ ACIWISTS LIKE l\J \-\1\\ffi. 0\JR '\-loT 13\JTIO~S" NSI-\t:D. 
6 
I ~ 

Andre Lafleur: cactus tamer "' 
(later killed in central Arizona)
( 
l 
!i' 
~ 


Activities Night and become a part of the newspaper staff! Tuesday, September 1 , at the JACC .. 
., Sports 
page 16 
Monday August 31 , 1992 
JIM VOGL 
Chalk Talk 

Baseball must do a lot more than turn back the clock 
Fellow sports fans, familiarize yourself with channel 24; that's ESPN on your beloved Heritage Cablevision system. 
You will likely be tuned in way past your normal bedtime watching an historic tractor pull competition. You may even find yourself getting up early to watch a rerun of the international judo championships. 
If you are at least semi-junkie, you will definitely be glued to the set for the tri-daily Sports Center, weekly NFL PrimeTime and Sunday Night Football, the daily half-hour show Baseball Tonight, and about 150 baseball games a season. 
Last night after Sports Center, I caught some of ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball, an epic battle between the Mets and Reds. I was quick to notice the neat old-fashioned uniforms. It was 'Turn Back the Clock" night. 
I can't help but see the irony here. 
First of all, the past means day baseball. To bypass a sunny Sunday in New York to play a night game would be considered sacrilage. 
Second of all, following baseball in its glory days meant gathering around the family radio for the night. 
ESPN spoils its viewers with a myriad of figures and graphics. 
I didn't get to see the game in its entirety, but I bet Mets manager Jeff Torborg appeared in a little box in the right-hand corner of the screen fielding questions about his team's chemistry problems. 
Why did the Mets unload David Cone, one of the National League's top pitchers, for an unproven third­baseman, Jeff Kent? 
I'll give you a hint. It starts with a dollar sign. Baseball, like its commissioner Fay Vincent, is in deep trouble. 
Owners are mad at Vincent for not putting in a salary cap to protect teams from bankruptcy. 
Headlines for an edition of ESPN's Baseball Today should be saying something like this: 
*a team can no longer survive financially in a city like San Francisco; *the Mets can no longer afford to pay a great free-agent pitcher his dues; 
*star players like Canseco, Henderson, Strawberry, etc. keep worrying more about numbers in their contracts than their team's numbers in the standings; 
The bottom line is simple:Teams simply canrlot keep up with rising costs. 
Something must be done to bring back the Glory Days of baseball. And for right now, marketers' "Turn Back the Clock" nights just aren't working. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

1•u>wa loses In Kickoff Classic 
see page 12 
l•fl'hilippines win Little League rw..u•n Series 



Women top SMC despite injuries 
ByGEORGEDOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Coach Chris Petrucelli and the Notre Dame women's soccer team got a look at the future Sunday night as they cruised past Saint Mary's College in an exhibition game 7-1. 
• SMC perspective/ page 14 
Injuries to four key players, including 
captains Michelle Lodyga, Margaret Jarc 
and Denise Chabot, forced Petrucelli to 
start nine underclassmen, including five 
freshmen. The fourth injured player is 
midfielder Stephanie Porter, last year's 
Midwestern Collegiate Confenmce Most 
Valuable Player. . 
The lineup will remain that way for a 
considerable amount of time, as the 
status of the injured players remains 
uncertain. 
A separated shoulder has troubled 
Lodyga, who was expected to anchor the 
Irish defense from goal this season. 
Replacing her will be sophomore Kim 
Gold, who started two games last season. 
Filling Jarc's sweeper position will be 
freshmen Ashley Scharff. and her 
performance there could be the key to 
the Irish's season. Despite her lack of 
experience, Scharff's teammates feel 
that she can handle the responsibility, 
especially if her performance against St. 
Mary's is an indication of things to come. 
"Ashley played really well, and the 
experience is going to make her a great 
player," commented Jarc. "She under­
stands the position and sees the field 
real well." 
Although not a starter, Chabot's loss is 
is of equal importance due the 

leadership role her and the other The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 
Junior Andrea Kurek has been named captain of the women's soccer team due to injuries 
see INJURY I page 14 to the squad's three senior captains. 

Men's soccer falls to Indiana in Boot, 2-0 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS -Emotions were high on Saturday as the 20th-ranked Notre Dame men's soccer team battled number-five Indiana at the Golden Boot Classic. 
Although it was just an exhibition game, both teams played with an intensity often reserved for the post­season. 
When the dust settled, the Hoosiers came away with a 2-0 win, but they didn't escape without a battle. 
"Indiana didn't dominate us by any 
-~~ 

stretch of the imagination," said Irish coach Mike Berticelli. "I think we exposed them as much as they exposed us." 
It didn't take Indiana very long to expose some inexperience in Notre Dame's defense. Junior Mike Palmer, a converted midfielder playing his first game as a defender, missed a coverage, which led to a goal by Indiana's Wane Lobring less than six minutes into the game. 
"The first goal was caused by some confusion and inexperience," Berticelli explained, "but I see that as a positive because it will be a learning ex eri-
Sophomore Jason Fox and the men's soccer team fell to Indiana, 2-0, in the Golden Boot Classic on Saturday. 
ence." Saturday's game was all about learning. 
Because it was just an exhibition, the Irish used various combinations and several untested players saw some quality minutes. 
The Hoosiers capitalized on that inexperience again at the 30:17 mark. Sophomore goalkeeper Bert Bader made an impressive diving save, but the ball slipped out of his grasp and Indiana's Brandon Ward dumped the garbage into the empty net. 
In the second half, emotions reached a peak and Irish sophomore Chris Dean was in the middle of the action. 
Early in the final period, h looked like Dean would be finished for the night after Indiana's Jeff Bannister sent him tumbling to the turf. He was able to continue, but he probably wishes he wasn't. Minutes later, Dean tripped up the Hoosiers' Joel Shanker. who showed his displeasure with a punch to Dean's stomach. 
Shanker showered, Dean continued. 
With a one-man advantage for the final 25 minutes, the Irish offense put together their best scoring opportunities of the night. 
An off-sides penalty wiped out sophomore Tim Oates' goal with about 20 minutes left, and Tont Richardson rolled a shot off the left bar in the final minute. 
"It could have just as easily been a 2-2 game," Berticelli said. "If that shot goes in at the end and we don't have the off­sides call, it's a different game." 
In exhibition games, however, the final score is meaningless. A loss is as good as a win if the team learns to play together and gets quality experience in game situations. 
"Because we're so young, we needed this time together on the field," Berticelli added. "This game gave us some di­rection as we prepare for the regular season, and I think we'll be a really good team by the end of the year." 
• The Observer/ Jake Peters 





