
1842 1992 SESQUIC~NHNNIAL  ~4~~~~~~,Wb,~~  
VOL. XXIV NO. 81  MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992  
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S  - 

Investigation underway in swim team bus accident 

•k The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
Tragedy stn es 

Tragedy struck the women's swim team and the Notre Dame campus as a whole when the team's United Limo bus overturned early Friday morning, killing two freshmen and injuring 35 others. The team was returning from a meet near Chicago when their bus slid off the snow and ice covered Indiana Toll Road. 
Swimmers' friends look back on memories 
Beeler called 'friendly and helpful' 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Losing Margaret "Meghan" Beeler was like losing a part of Notre Dame for friends of the Granger, Ind., academic and athletic standout. 
Beeler grew up "living for Notre Dame," said her best friends, Walsh Hall freshmen Michelle Drury and Liz Bishko. "People came to see her as Notre Dame." 
Beeler died early Friday morning in the United Limo bus accident on the Indiana Toll Road. She was 19. She is 



Meghan Beeler 

survived by three sisters, one brother, her parents and both sets of grandparents. 
The accident involving mem­bers of the Notre Dame 
see BEELER I page 6 


Palestinian discusses Middle East peace talks 
By MEGAN JUNIUS 
News Writer 
The leader of the Palestinian delegation to the recent Middle East peace talks in Washington cited a serious Palestinian commitment to peace with Israel in a Friday lecture at Notre Dame. 
"Palestine is seriously com­mitted to peace with Israel. We want the Israelis to cooperate," said Dr. Haidar Shafi in a lec­ture titled "Prospects for Peace in the Middle East." 
Shafi, a retired physician, of­fered a diagnosis of the Palestinian problem: "Palestinians have been denied the inalienable right to self-de­termination," he said. "The problem has never been pre­sented this simply and clearly. To most Westerners, the truth 

• Shafi's press conference I page 5 
has been lost." 
"The prime minister of Israel conceives nothing for Palestinians. He denies Palestinians their innate right of self-determination," Shafi said. 
Shafi supported his state­ments by reciting a history of continued conflict between Israel and Arab countries. 
In June, 1967, Israel went to war with Arab countries, Shafi said. After their occupation, Israel annexed Jerusalem as part of its territory. This in­stance prompted a United Nations call on Israel to with­draw from the territories. However, Israel refused to co­operate and insisted on its own 
see SHAFI I page 7 

ND reacts to death of freshmen 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Assistant News Editor 
Investigation is still underway concerning the tragic bus acci­dent that took the lives of Margaret "Meghan" Beeler and Colleen Hipp and injured 32 other members of the Notre Dame women's swim team early Friday morning. 
News of the accident took the University community by sur­prise, but students, faculty, administration and residents of South Bend quickly mobilized to show their support for team members and their families. 
"People are shocked," said Dennis Brown, a spokesman for the University, "It's a tough situation and we are trying to cope with it ... Everybody in the Notre Dame family has been af­fected." 
The accident took place at 
12:17 a.m. Friday when the United Limo bus carrying the team back to campus after a meet at Northwestern University hit a patch of ice, lost control and overturned about four miles from Notre Dame, according to the Indiana 

Lewis makes quilt to honor Hipp 

By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Lewis Hall residents are piec­ing together memories of Colleen Hipp-literally-in a quilt for her family in St. Louis, Mo. 
Residents are decorating squares of fabric that will eventually be sewn together with a border and given to Colleen Hlpp Hipp's family, said Lewis Hall women's swimming team Co-President Molly O'Neill. crashed outside South Bend on 


Hipp, 19, was killed early the Indiana Toll Road. Friday morning when a United Hipp is survived by one Limo bus transporting mem­sister, one brother and her bers of the Notre Dame 
see HIPP I page 6 


Livening up the night 
Seniors Rictl Pagen, drums, and Jeremy Gredone, saxophone, of the Jasmine Groove, provide live entertainment at an off-campus party. 
• 
Haley Scott's condition/ page 3 

• 
Local business lends a hand I page 3 

• 
NO health service treating 8 swimmers/ page 5 


State police. 
Of the 37 people on the bus, police reported that 32 were female swimmers, three were coaches, one was a student manager and one was 53-year­old driver, Howard Dixon of 132 W. Lawrence St., Mishawaka. 
Freshmen Beeler, 19, of Granger, Ind. and Hipp, 19, of St. Louis, Mo. were killed dur­ing the crash as the vehicle "rolled over into the median, rolled over onto its top," ex­plained state police Cpl. Dennis Boehler. Both women suffered major chest injuries and died on the scene, according to Thomas Trenerry, county deputy coroner. 
Haley Scott, 18, also a fresh­man, remains in the intensive care unit of Memorial Hospital with a serious back injury. As of Saturday, Jan. 26, Scott, of 
see CRASH I page 4 
NO seniors attend ethics conference 
By CAROL DOMINGUEZ 
News Writer 
A conference on ethics and education at Notre Dame January 12-13 brought to­gether senior students and fac­ulty members to discuss such issues as contraception, the en­vironment and morality. 
The conference, "The Ethical Dimension of Education at the University of Notre Dame," was a pilot program developed on the recommendation of a committee chaired by Associate Provost Oliver Williams. In 1990 the committee submitted a report concerning the University's commitments and goals as a Catholic University in teaching its students the value of ethics. 
The report stated that the "students need to be provided with an opportunity to take stock of what they have learned about ethics theoretically and practically" while at Notre Dame. 
A two day ethics workshop was recommended for seniors to provide a forum to discuss the moral decisions they will confront in the future. 
This year's session, organized by Kathleen Maas Weigert, chair of the Pilot Ethics Committee, was a one-and-a­half day experiment. 
In a letter sent to one hun­dred randomly selected seniors, ND President Father Edward Malloy, stated that the purpose of the program was to "provide students with the opportunity to evaluate the education they have received at Notre Dame in 
see ETHICS I page 7 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Trivial events 
pale in light of recent tragedy 
It's ironic how things 
that seemed so important 
a week ago seem so trivial 
today. 
A week ago, the dubious 
workings of the Hall 
Presidents' Council were 
front-page news. Now, it 


seems silly to even John O'Brien 
mention this illustrious Accent Editor 
organization after the ------­
tragedy that our campus experienced on 
Friday. 

The only reason that HPC is mentioned here 
is that this column was going to be about HPC 
and how it is an ineffective, pompous 
organization that uses bullying as a way of 
accomplishing its agenda. 

The events of this weekend have made 
many things seem unimportant. Basketball 
games, parties, Rick Mirer's decision and 
even HPC pale in comparison. 

It has only been four days since the United 
Limo bus carrying the women's swim team 
arashed and changed the way people will 
remember the Sesquicentennial year. 
Years from now, when we look back at this 
anniversary year, few of us will remember the 
HPC controversy. But all of us will remember 
Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler and the 
freak twist of fate that took their lives. 
Some of us might remember the joy and excitement we felt while singing "Notre Dame, Our Mother" after our home football victories. But everyone who attended the memorial mass on Friday will remember singing "Notre Dame, Our Mother" and how hard it was to hold back the tears. 
Years from now, we may recall how many alumni and friends gathered together to celebrate Notre Dame's first homecoming celebration in decades. But we will surely remember the way alumni from across the country joined with us to remember Colleen and Meghan and to pray for Haley Scott and the rest of her injured teammates. 
If our memories are strong, we might re­member the words of one of Father Malloy's speeches. But everyone who was at mass on Friday will remember him saying that he was proud to be at Notre Dame on that day. 
And while the words "Notre Dame family" might seem cliched in a few years, anyone who was on campus this weekend will know that the "Notre Dame family" does exist. 
Perhaps, years from now, we will remember how the Notre Dame community banded together in a time of need and helped those who were mourning a terrible loss. 
In the next few weeks there will be many things that contribute to our memories about this weekend. Who knows? Maybe even HPC will give us something to remember. 
Maybe Lyons and Morrissey, the next two dorms to host HPC meetings will do some­thing memorable. Perhaps they'll realize that $150 or $200 or $250 can do a lot more than feed hungry hall presidents. 
Maybe they'll take that money and put it to­wards a memorial scholarship fund for Colleen and Meghan. Or maybe the Scott family could use some help with Haley's medical bills. 
Maybe this will happen and something good will come of this tragedy. 
Today's Staff 

Production  News  
Jay Colucci  Pete Loftus  
Lisa Bourdon  Julie Barrett  
Sports  VIewpoint  
Jennifer Marten  Rich Riley  
Accent  Systems  
Paige Smoron  Fritz Valsaint  
Meredith McCullough  Paul Froning  
Business  Lab Tech.  
Colleen Gannon  Garr Schwartz  
Andy Runkle  

Rich Rile • .L.------------­
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
,..;: 
~: 
,,,,,, \': :':::: 
':::: 
:::::: 
/:i 
'''' 
\: 
FDII!CAIT: 
Mostly cloudy today with a chance of flurries. Highs in the mid 30s and lows in the low 20s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Amsterdam  45  28  
Atlanta  59  36  
Bogola  66  41  
~;:s.:~e  ~  j~  
Chicago  29  12  
Denver  45  22  
EvansvUie  51  26  
Fairbanks  ·05  ·05  
::~~~~~  ~~  ~~  
Houston  68  53  
London  45  37  
Los Angeles  76  49  
Mlarri Beach  69  60  
Mpls-St. Paul  t 6  07  
New York  26  21  
Paris  41  36  
Phlladephla  30  24  
Santiago  86  57  
San Diego  73  49  
South Bend  2e  18  
Tokyo  52  36  
Tulsa  59  28  


:::,:.: Washington, D.C. 34 27
Pr86Sure 
r;;w;;"lr==l
H L k~,~l ~ OQ!.J t::.=.,j 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
:;:f·
·:·:: ·. ==~ 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Prolonged Crisis Reveals Haiti's Capacity To Withstand Siege 
.PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -When foreign powers put a chokehold on Haiti's economy, they predicted the speedy demise of those who backed a Sept. 30 army coup. But the nearly 4-month-old hemispheric trade embargo imposed by the Organization of American States has not returned President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power. The already weak economy has been badly hurt, but it still limps along. Three tankers have delivered badly needed fuel, and a variety of goods can be seen unloaded at the docks. Most shop shelves remain full of both local and importmr·goods, although merchants say business has dropped dramatically. The military and conservative foes of the populist Aristide, Haiti's first freely elected president, appear firmly in control. Aristide, a 38-year-old activist Roman Catholic priest, remains highly popular with the poor masses among Haiti's 6 million people. He is despised, however, by the military and conservatives who accuse him of abusing authority during eight months in office and of encouraging mob attacks on critics. A plan supported by the 34-nation OAS calls for the naming of a compromise prime minister to guide Haiti out of the crisis and work toward Aristide's return. But it must be approved by Parliament, where the Senate is deadlocked. 
INDIANA 
Congressman Who Probed Assassination Sure of Mafja lnvo!yement 
.INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Floyd Fithian, the former Indiana congressman who investigated the murder of John F. Kennedy as a member of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, remains convinced mobsters were responsible. Fithian said he believes that elements of organized crime orchestrated the 
OF INTEREST 
•Effective 
interviewing workshop will be held this afternoon in Hayes-Healy, Room 223 from 4 to 5 p.m. The workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked during an interview. The workshop is open to students of any major. 

•A 
van drivers course will be offered for all those who have not previously attended and are planning to request use of the Center for Social Concern's vans. The course 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/January 24 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX + 213,655,600 229.17 v 0.28 S&P COMPOSITE 415.48 • 0.52 OOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,232.78 .. 6.04 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD{} $ .20 to $354.70/oz. 
SILVER{} 6.2¢ to $4.163/oz. 

ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
.:·. ;.;;.;:·· 
assassination. The committee's official conclusion in 1979, 16 years after the death, was that Kennedy "was probably assassinated as a result of a conspiracy. "Conspiracy theorists long have suggested the mob had a motive to destroy the Kennedy administration. Several Mafia leaders were openly unhappy with Kennedy's failure to overthrow Cuba's Fidel Castro, who had closed their casinos in Havana. The committee, which took testimony from 335 witnesses and conducted 4,924 interviews, concluded in its 27-volume report that Lee Harvey Oswald fired three shots from the Texas School Book Depository and at least one other shot came from a grassy knoll to the front right of Kennedy's motorcade on Nov. 22, 1963. Fithian, 63, said his biggest regret was that no federal criminal investigation resulted in any arrests or any apparent widening of the committee's fmdings. 
CAMPUS 

NO's Mock Trial Association heads for the nationals 
•Notre Dame, ln.-Notre Dame's Mock Trial Association traveled to Toledo, Ohio this weekend to compete in the First Annual Qualifying Tournament. Notre Dame had originally entered five teams in the competition, but due to the bus tragedy and bad weather conditions last week, only two teams attended. The two teams placed 7th and 8th out of close to 20 teams, and qualified to go on to compete at the national level. The national competition will be held in Des Moines, Iowa on February 22 and 23. Special mention goes to junior Bob Sweeney, who received an Outstanding Attorney Award at the competition, and to senior Amy Cashore, sophomore Ivan Hofmann and Saint Mary's Martha Conlin, who received Outstanding Witness Awards. Notre Dame's Mock Trial Association, which was formed two years ago, has placed 4th and 7th, respectively, in the past two years at the national tournament. 
will be held at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Jan. 28 and Wednesday, Jan. 29 at the Center for Social Concerns. This is mandatory for anyone planning to drive the vans. 
•Anyone interested in participating in the TSO festival on February 1, 1992 for the American Lebanese Club doing the "Debka," please contact Kristen 283-2688 or Louay 283-3498. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1967: Astronauts Virgil "Gus" Grissom, Edward White and Roger Chaffee died in a flash fire during a test aboard their Apollo 1 spacecraft at Cape Kennedy, Fla. 

•to 
1973: The Vietnam peace accords were signed in Paris, bringing to an end the longest foreign war in U.S. history. 

•to 
1977: The Vatican reaffirmed the Roman Catholic Church's ban on female priests. 

• 
In 1981 : President Reagan greeted the 52 former American hostages who were held by Iran, telling them during a visit to the White House: "Welcome home." 

• 
In 1984: Singer Michael Jackson suffered second-degree burns to his scalp when a smoke-bomb canister exploded during the filming of a Pepsi-Cola TV commercial at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. 


The Observer 
Monday, January 27, 1992 

Local businesses help to soften blow to families 
By DAVID KINNEY firmary then informed the stu­
Associate News Editor dents. The parents "have been really appreciative," added Cooper. 
Several community 
businesses donated their The crash was something that 
services and goods to the touched the entire South Bend 
students involved in Friday community, he said. "It was 
morning's bus accident, something that came as a shock 
according to Carol Seager, to all of us." 
director of University Health A representative of Residence 
Services. Inn said that the Inn's general 
manager also offered a room to 
Hotels, eating establishments, one relative of a student in­medical organizations and or­volved in the crash. dinary individuals donated ev­erything from pizzas to medical Domino's Pizza donated ten equipment to the students, their pizzas to the infirmary, accord­relatives and the infirmary, she ing to Kelly Clink, assistant 
said. manager. "We are always con­The Works Hotel offered the cerned with the University. relatives of those involved in When something happens, the accident free rooms over we're more than happy to help
A sign hanging outside of the Knights of Columbus building on So~th 
the weekend, according to Brad out."
Quad represents the universal sentiments across campus for the VIC­
Cooper, desk clerk. He said that 
tims of the tragedy that befell the women's swim team last week. 
the manager offered the ges­Papa John's Pizza, Emporium ture in order to help people, not Restaurant and McDonald's also to better the hotel's business. donated food to the infirmary, Seager said. St. Joseph's 
"We gave out about 15 rooms Medical Center and Access over the weekend," he said. Home Medical donated supplies Cooper said the manager and medical equipment. "thought it would be a good 
thing to do." Seager also said that a num­
The manager of the hotel no­ber of people in the community tified the NO administration of­offered to help, from nursing to ficials of the service and the in-simple assistance. 


CLUB COLUMN 
JANUARY 27, 1992 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4:00 pm Thursday each week. All entries will appear in the following Monday edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in room 206f LaFortune. 
1) The Club Coordination Council would like to remind all presidents of graduate and undergraduate clubs to check their mailboxes on the second floor of LaFortune across from the Student Government offices. 
2) Last Day to access club funds is April10, 1992. 
3) Model United Nations Club will meet 7 p.m. on Mondays in 120 Hayes­Healy. 
4)PUGWASA-Lloyd Sims, '71, will be speaking with students about his experience as an HIV positive person in an informal discussion Tues., Jan. 28 at 7:30p.m. in the esc 
5) A Support Group for survivors of rape will be offered free of charge this semester by Sex Offense Services(SOS) and CARE. Co-facilitated by trained SOS advocates, it will be open to all students from ND/SMC. Held on campus the group will be completely confidential. For more information please call SOS at 234-0061 x231. 
6)The Center for Basic Learning Skills is having an orientation meeting tonight, Jan. 27 at 7 p.m. in the CSC. Anyone interested in tutoring adults two hours per week in reading, writing and math is welcome. Call Katie at 283­3706 for more information. 
7)The International Festival, sponsored by ISO, will be held at Washington Hall on Sat., Feb. 1 at 7:30p.m. 


PROCTER 8' GAMBLE 
Management Systems Diuision Pizza Party! Tuesday, Feb. 28 at 7:00 PM Morris Inn -Alumni Room If your major is: Engineering, M Is, Applied Math, 
MBR, CRPP 
Learn more about career opportunities auailable at Procter & Gamble! (Internships Also Ruailable) 

page 3 

Scott is still in intensive care unit 
By DAVID KINNEY Associate News Editor 
Haley Scott, a Lyons Hall freshman, is in serious but stable condition in Memorial Hospital after suffering a back injury in the swim team bus ac­cident early Friday morning. 
Scott, who underwent surgery early Friday morning and again Friday afternoon, will be in the intensive care unit until mid-week, according 

Haley Scott 
to Steve Scott, her father. 
"Her spirits are really good," said Mr. Scott. "Very high." 
Scott, a Phoenix, Ariz. native, said she realizes that she will be in the hospital for a long pe­riod of time, but knows that she will recover, according to Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall. 
Karen Wells, assistant rector, agreed that Scott is extremely strong mentally and has a good outlook on life. 
Although it is too early to tell how successful the surgery was, her father said that Scott has "a little" feeling in her lower body. Beatty said that the hospital staff hopes that Scott's feeling levels and motor ability will increase in the coming days. 
University administration and students have provided "overwhelming" support. Mr. Scott said. "One of these days my wife and I are going to have to think of a way to thank ev­eryone," he added. 
Beatty said that the staff of Memorial Hospital has also been extremely supportive of both patients and visitors. 
Residents of Lyons Hall are shocked by the news of the ac­cident but encouraged by Scott's condition, according to Wells. The dorm is talking to residents and trying to help them to deal with the tragedy. 
Many residents are worried about Scott, said Beatty, and the hall staff is attempting to keep the dorm informed about her condition. The staff must deal with differ;ent levels of grief about the death and seri­ous injury of friends, she said. 
Because of the large numbers of students who want to visit Scott, Beatty said that, the dorm will set up some kind of system to stagger visitation. 
Scott, a four-year member of the Arizona all-state high school team, was captain of the Xavier College Preparatory swim team her senior year. She set numerous state and confer­ence records en route to an overall high school record of 51-1; she won the state cham­pionship her senior year. 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 

:·.··············· 

The Observer Monday, January 27, 1992
page 4 


Crash 
continued from page 1 
Pheonix, Ariz., was said to be 
in stable condition after 
undergoing surgery. twice on 
Friday, a,ccor~ing to . a 
spokeswoman for the hospital. 
Other injured passengers 
were taken to one of four 
nearby hospitals and were re­
leased upon receiving treat­
ment. Eighteen were then 
taken to the University 
infirmary where 8 still remain. 
Truck drivers travelling along the Toll Road stopped after the accident and offered their as­sistance. "All the truck drivers were really great. People were running from truck to truck getting the injured in," said freshman Michelle Lower. Several swimmers were trans­ported to the hospitals by help­ful passer-byers in addition to the ambulan~es. 
While the causes of the acci­dent have not' yet been con­firmed, most attribute the crash to the adverse weather conditions. 
"Everything we have is (that) it was snowing and windy, but it's doing that right now," Dan Shoup, company vice president at United Limo Inc. of Osceola, told Associated Press reporters Friday. "In northern Indiana it snows in the winter." 
Although the Chicago Tribune brought the injured Dixon's driving record into question, police have not confirmed the paper's reports that Dixon had at one time been charged with driving under the influence of alcohol. On Saturday, the newspaper reported that Dixon's commercial driver's li­cense was suspended from Sept.18,1987 to Dec.16,1987 for driving under the influence of alcohol. 
The Chicago Tribune also re­ported that his license was sus­pended for three additional months, through March 17, 1988 for "a technical violation such as failure to obtain insur­ance." 
Police and the South Bend Tribune have yet to confirm these reports. 
Shoup explained that he was unaware of the conditions sur­rounding Dixon's driving in Friday's crash. Shoup said that this incident is Dixon's first traffic accident of any kind in his seven years with the com­pany. 
"He (Dixon) has a six-year safe-driving award," added Shoup. 
Many swimmers were outraged by the way Dixon's record was questioned by the press. 
"Howard has been our driver for years," said senior swimmer Becky Wood. "He's always been an excellent driver. When people die, you want to blame someone, but never did I blame Howard." 
Following the accident, Indiana State Police Sgt. Nora Werner confirmed that alcohol was not a factor in the crash. 
Though some witnesses claim that the bus had been speeding, Cpl. Leonard Kring said no traffic ticket had been issued and no charges had been filed against Dixon. Federal, state and county police are investi­gating the incident. 
The vehicle is also being in­spected for mechanical mal­functions. 
Shoup maintains that there were no problems with the chartered United Limo and that the 1988 model bus was in "good condition." Still, John Piraccine of the Toll Road Authority said that the National Transportation Board impounded the bus to a build­ing at Michiana Regional Airport in order to "see if there were failures in the operation." 
Piraccine was also able to confirm the weather conditions on the morning of the accident. 
The accident occured at the 74 mile marker on the Toll Road. According to Piraccine, this was "the worst section (of road) from Michigan City to Notre Dame."Arriving on the scene a half hour after the bus over-turned, Piraccine said that it was "tough to tell," but that "the condition was wet and there wa-s slush on the road ... and some spots of snow." He made special mention of the passing lane having patches of ice. 
In spite of the conditions, the Toll Road Authority did not consider closing the road, said Piraccine. "We rarely close the road unless it gets to a point where there are visibility prob­lems," he explained. "In the winter the Toll Road is gener­ally in good shape. It's clearer and dryer than others leading up to it ... We run maintenance 24 hours a day and start salting the road as soon as it gets bad." 
Since the Toll Road has a reputation for quality up-keep during harsh weather, there were other cars on the road Friday morning, Piraccine said. 
Both Shoup and Notre Dame officials said that there was no way of knowing that the team was in danger due to the harsh weather. 
"We would not want a team to travel anytime where there would be a major danger," said Dick Rosenthal, ND athletic di­rector. "At the time of the acci­dent, I don't think we had a significant dangerwarning. Indiana Motor Bus (United Limo) travels back and forth (between Chicago and South Bend) nine times a day." 
Shoup explained that there is no set rule to determine whether or not such an excur­sion should be cancelled. He said that the bus made frequent contact with the other vehicles on the road as a partial means of making this decision, but with "conditions changing so fast" it was hard to know for sure just how dangerous it was. 
A mass was held Friday in the Sacred Heart Basilica in the memory of the two women who died. University President Father Edward Malloy, who cut short a trip to Washington, was the chief celebrant. Father E. William Beauchamp, executive vice president, was the homilist. 

Students, faculty, staff and administrators and former swim team members, along with members of the local community joined to offer sup­port and prayers to the stu­dents' families and friends. Approximately 3,000 worship­pers spilled into the aisles of the 1 ,400 capacity church. 
Malloy gave special thanks to all those who helped the swim team Friday morning-includ­ing motorists, hospital employ­ees and all others who donated their time. In his emotionally charged concluding rites, he also mentioned all those who sent flowers, phoned in sympa­thies and attended the Mass. Commenting on the unity felt across the campus, Malloy said that he was proud to be a part of the Notre Dame community. 
The University also cancelled all athletic events that were to take place over the weekend in­cluding a swim meet against St. Bonaventure and the Midwestern Collegiate indoor men's and women's track meet. This is the first time that all athletic events have been can­celled since the assassination of President Kennedy . 
Information for this report was contributed by David Kinney, Jennifer Marten, Kelley Tuthill, Monica Yant, the Associated Press, the Chicago Tribune and the South Bend Tribune. 

He·s Amazing ... He·s Exciting... He•s Zany... He•s Hilarious... And HE·s COMING TO TOWN! 
...1\~~"\ South Bend Cfribune 
and
"\\\'"' Irish SP-orts ReP-ort WSBT®TV22 
PROUDLY PRESENT: 
THE FAMOUS PHOENIX SUNs• WILD AND CRAZY, HIGH FLYIN•, SLAM DUNKIN· ... 




7HE GORILLA• 
See The Gorilla and the Notre Dame vs. Dayton Basketball Game! 

ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY, AT THE 
NO'I'RE DAME vs. DAY'I'ON 
Men·s Basketball Game Monday, January 27th, 7:30 pm JACC • Upper Arena Tickets: Only 88.00 
Tickets subject to availability 
Tickets now on sale at the Notre Dame JACC (Gate 10) Box Office and local Ticketmaster locations. Or, for Credit Card Phone Orders, call: (219) 272-7979. (American Express, Visa, & MasterCard welcomed) 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES ~ 

-
-~ ------~------­

Monday, January 27, 1992 


ND Health Services are treating swimmers 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI News Writer 
Of the 37 passengers involved in the Thursday night tragedy that struck the Notre Dame women's swim team, eight are still being treated by University Health Services. 
"We don't really know when they'll be released," said Carol Seager, Director of Health Services. "We're just taking this step by step. This has been very traumatic and it is not something you want to rush," she said. 
Every student involved in the accident has received extensive care and attention, according to Seager. "Every one of them came to Health Services as soon as they were released from whichever hospital treated them." 
The injuries sustained, which include freshman Haley Scott's spinal injury, as well as the deaths of freshmen Colleen Hipp and Megan Beeler, resulted from the crash of the United Limo bus that was returning the women's swim team from a meet against Northwestern in Evanston, Ill. 
Initially, each passenger on the bus was taken to one of the four area hospitals. After re­ceiving x-rays and screenings from the various hospitals, "the girls all came through Health Services and received a second screening," according to Seager. Health Services also treated two coaches involved in the accident. 
"We felt it was very impor­tant to have a central location, a sort of gathering point," she added. "At Health Services we have been able to give them very specialized care." 
The University Counseling Center has also been accommodating in the services it offers. According to Seager, the counseling center was activated as soon as Health Services was aware of the accident. "When the first girls started arriving at Health Services, the counseling center was on hand to begin offering its assistance." 
The University Counseling Center is available to parents of victims and students. 
By PAUL PEARSON Assistant News Editor 
Peace will not develop in the Middle East unless the United States uses its leverage prop­erly, according to Haidar Shaft, the leader of the Palestinian delegation to the Middle East peace talks which adjourned earlier this month in Washington. 
The possibility for peace in the region, especially in the Israeli-occupied territories, de­pends on "how the U.S. plays its role" in the process, Shaft said. 
In a press conference Friday, Shafi said that the Palestinians will not be satisfied with any­thing less than the establish­ment of an independent Palestinian state, which would include the Gaza strip, the West Bank and East Jerusalem. "I don't think we can settle for less than that." 
Shafi said that Israel's refusal to give up these territories is the biggest obstacle to the 

The Observer page 5 

Shafi: U.S. must prod Israel in talks 
lith ANNUAL CELEBRATION! 

RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
• TOURWAY INN· ~~til, 
• THE REEF •1,..., , ~ 
-7 nights­
*Depending on break dates and length of stay 

establishment of what he called "a just and stable peace." 
He also believes that Israel should stop settling people in the territories. The settlement process could "prejudice the outcome" of any future negoti­ations, he said. 
Although the United Nations have passed resolutions against the occupation of the territo­ries, they have not been en­forced, Shafi said. 
Since the U.N. enforced its resolutions against Iraq by sending troops to expel Iraq out of Kuwait, Shafi does not understand why the U.N. does not also enforce its resolutions against Israel. "It reflects badly on the U.S. and on the world that some U.N. resolutions are implemented and some are not." 
Another thing that could re­flect badly on the U.S., accord­ing to Shaft, is the package of loan guarantees for Israel, which is currently being de­bated in Congress. The ap­proval of these loans would be a terrible setback in the peace process, as it would "damage the credibility of the American government as a broker in the peace process," he said. 
The third round of the nego­tiations are scheduled to begin in mid-February, and will probably take place in the U.S., according to Shafi. 
If these talks do not result in peace, the Palestinians will con­tinue fighting for its rights, Shafi said. "We consider it to be our legitimate right to fight for our basic rights." 
Until now, the negotiations have produced nothing concrete except for the fact that the Israelis and the Palestinians are negotiating seriously for the first time, Shafi said. "We have started talking substance." 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, the Notre Dame Law School and the Law School's Center for Civil and Human Rights sponsored Shafi's lecture and press conference. 
Gas prices lowest since before war 
LOS ANGELES (AP) from last November, and prices Gasoline prices in the United haven't been this low since be­States have dropped to their fore the military buildup to the lowest level in more than a Gulf War began, said Lundberg. year, an industry analyst said Sunday. But she said it's uncertain 
The average price for all whether the slide will continue. grades of gasoline, including She noted upturns in the spot taxes, averaged just under and futures markets for oil. $1.18 per gallon as of Friday, In a survey of 13,000 gas sta­down 1.87 cents since a Jan. 10 tions, per-gallon prices at self­survey, said Trilby Lundberg. service pumps were 99.83 cents 
for regular leaded, $1.03 for Gasoline is more than 6 cents regular unleaded and $1.21 for a gallon cheaper on average premium unleaded. 
-·-~----··---------~--­"!'.J"eed A Spring Break? 
~~ 
""-...,; 
~ ~lreat Your;elf 'I'o A Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break 

The Ultimate Sailing Experience ~ 
[caiil..soo..3.J9..9aos To&v] \"'"' 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'll iet you repeat the entire course...at no charge! 
We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST. N-TAPE* labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations call BOO-KAP-TEST 

------------~-~ -~---~-~-------~------~-----­
page o The Observer 

Gone but not forgotten 
The Observer/John Rock 

Friends and hallmates from Lewis made a quilt in memory of freshman and swim team member Colleen Hipp to send to her family in St. Louis. Hipp and fellow freshman Meghan Beeler were killed early Friday morning when their bus overturned as they were returning from a swim meet at Northwestern University. 





Beeler 
continued from page 1 
women's swimming team also claimed the life of freshman Colleen Hipp, 19, of Lewis Hall and St. Louis, Mo. 
Services for Beeler were scheduled for 10 a.m. today at Sacred Heart Basilica on cam­pus. 
Beeler will be remembered as well-liked and outgoing. "She touched everybody," Walsh Hall Rector Sister Josef Riordan said. 
Walsh Resident Assistant Liz Toohey described her as inde­pendent and helpful. Because Beeler was from nearby Granger, she knew a lot about Notre Dame. "She was helpful in making other freshmen feel comfortable." 
Toohey said the former all­state swimmer was friendly and "fit right in" with other residents. 
Clinton responds to marriage questions 
PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP)­Bill and Hillary Clinton told the American people Sunday that questions about their marriage and rumors of his infidelity were irrelevant to his ability to be president. "We're putting this in your hands -you get to decide," he said. 
Three weeks out from the critical New Hampshire pri­mary, Clinton sought to put to rest lingering questions about whether he had been faithful to his wife of 16 years. 
"People in this country will 


kinko•s 
the copy ,_·en ttr 
see that Hillary and I love each other, we're committed to our child and to our family and that we have something to offer the country, and if they think it is better than what anyone else is offering, I think they'll vote for me," Clinton said. 
In an effort to put the ques­
"She had lots of friends," Toohey said. "She made them really easily." 
Beeler was a perfectionist who gave 110 percent, accord­ing to Bishko. "Everything she did, she put her heart in it. She'd never accept second best." 
Beeler divided her time be­tween her life in Walsh and with the swimming team well, managing to find time to par­ticipate in dorm activities and read at Mass. 
Beeler was a four-time all-state swimmer at South Bend's St. Joseph's High School and an editor on the yearbook. At Notre Dame, she competed in the 50 and 200-yard free-style, 100-yard butterfly and 400­yard medley. 
Walsh residents joined to­gether for a prayer service with Father Mark Poorman before walking to Friday's Memorial Mass as a group. The service was a "bonding" experience for many, Riordan said. 
The support in the dorm has been overwhelming, she added. 
"They're telling a lot, really expressing themselves," Riordan said of Walsh resi­dents. 
With 26 freshmen on the floor where Beeler lived, and 80 in the dorm, the accident has prompted residents to come to each other for assistance. "Everyone's really pulled to­gether," Toohey said. 
"People are doing well, being respectful of each other's ways of dealing with it," she added. 
Toohey said that the dorm plans to make counselors available this week to residents who are interested. 
Plans for memorial funds for Beeler and Hipp are in progress, said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information. Although there are no definite plans, he said it is possible that the memorial funds will lead to the estab­lishment of scholarships in the women's names. 
tions behind his Democratic candidacy for the White House, Clinton and his wife spoke in an interview to The Associated Press. They also taped an inter­view Sunday that was to air after the Super Bowl to a na­tionwide audience estimated at more than 50 million on CBS's "60 Minutes." 

~-----------~--~----------------------. 
Hipp 
continued from page 1 
parents. 
The accident also claimed the 
life of Margaret "Meghan" 
Beeler, a 19-year-old freshman 
from Walsh Hall and Granger, 
Ind. 
Last night, Lewis residents held a memorial Mass for Hipp, whose funeral is scheduled to­day in St. Louis. Many friends and members of the men's and women's swimming program traveled to St. Louis Sunday to be with her family, as there will be no local services or visita­tion. 
Lewis residents have come together to support one an­other since the accident, ac­cording to one residence assis­tant. The hall staff is spending time talking with many resi­dents of this dorm with a one­third population of freshmen. 
Hipp will be remembered as friendly, active and well-liked. Even with her busy schedule, she made time to be a section leader in her dorm, according to O'Neill. 
"We thought Colleen to be a friendly and enthusiastic girl who was very proud to be a freshman at Notre Dame," said Carolyn Kapustij and Jane Oesterle, freshmen living across the hall from Hipp. "We never remember seeing her without a smile on her face." 
Jill Beth Hayes, a senior in Hipp's section, described her as someone who was always thinking of others. 
If you see news happening call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 
Happy 20th Birthday Matt 


FEBRUARY 1st 
at 7:30 
WASHINGTON 
HALL TICKETS ARE $5 AT THE 
ISO OFFICE ORATTHEDOOR 
WHll..E THEY LAST 

1 
Monday, January 27, 1992 
"She was always looking out 
for other people," said Hayes, a 
high school classmate of Hipp's 
from St. Louis. "Everybody 
knew Colleen because she was 
so nice." 
Just before the accident Hipp was desperately trying to get basketball tickets for her older sister who was to spend last weekend at Notre Dame, ac­cording to Hayes. Hipp finally got the ticket for her sister, who saw the Thursday night game against Missouri while Hipp competed at Northwestern Thursday night. 
Hipp's sister was still on campus when she learned of the accident, according to Hayes. 
Hipp competed for the Irish women's swimming team in the 100 and 1,000 butterfly. She was touted as one of the team's top distance swimmers and a future star. 
Hayes said Hipp got along well with Lewis residents, espe­cially in a section full of se­niors. "She was very friendly and always had a cute little shy smile." 
Because Hipp's family re­mained in St. Louis, her sec­tionmates acted as a surrogate family for Friday's Memorial Mass. "We kept off our section lights in memory and went to­gether as a section to the Memorial Mass," Hayes said. 
Plans for memorial funds in Hipp's and Beeler's names are in progress, said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information. He added that the funds may lead to scholarships in the women's names. 



Monday, January 27, 1992 The Observer page 7 

Touchdown! 
Seniors Brian "Free" Schirf, Jim "Beruit" Panacek, Tim "Fat Face" Herron and Rob "Michelle" Wulf, left to right, watch the Washington Redskins win Super Bowl XXVI last night at LaFayette Square. 

Ethics 
continued from page 1 
terms of the preparation it has given them for decision-making in these areas of daily life." 
In addition to the 43 seniors that attended the workshop, six juniors were chosen in order to provide input for next year's seminar. 
The main ethical issues cov­ered were: "Catholics and Contraception: A Layperson's View," "Why Moral People Make Immoral Decisions," and "Development, Ethics and Ecological Wisdom." After lec­tures on these topics, which were chosen by a student advi­sory committee, discussion ses­sions facilitated by professors representing all four colleges followed. 
At the conclusions of the 
2 CHANCES TO FIND OUT 
HOW.... 





JEREMY RIFKIN 
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVIST 

JANUARY 29th 

FIRESIDE CHAT 12 p.m. ISO Lounge Free Lunch 
seminar the students completed a questionnaire evaluating its usefulness. Although all the statistics have not yet been compiled, Weigert said that of all the students participating, twenty-four rated the program "excellent" and twenty-three rated it "good." 
Weigert saw this as an en­couraging sign. "We are cer­tainly going to invite the origi­nal committee back to ask the University what we should do with this," she said. 
Depending on the committee's evaluation, Weigert said that next year she hopes the pro­gram will be larger and open to more students. 
Avari Lynn Luckey, a senior in the College of Science, praised the seminar. "I was able to re­flect on my own ethical stand­ing," she said. Luckey said she realized that she had actually learned her ethics at Notre 
PRESENTATION 7p.m. Librm:y Auditorium Admission Free 
Dame through "social interac­tion." 
Senior government major Jay Rhatican also found the work­shop worthwhile, especially after a Christian ethics course he had last semester. "It was interesting to apply and discuss what I learned in class with students outside of the class­room," he said. 
Although most of his classes at Notre Dame had not touched on the subject of ethics, Rhatican said that the seminar taught him that "everything out there has an ethical aspect to it." 
"The workshop should maybe be mandatory before gradua­tion, but then people would look at it as work when it shouldn't really be that," he said. 
Weigert concluded that "a Catholic university should be tied up with preparing students to lead good lives. This is part of the way we can do that." 


Shafi 
continued from page 1 
terms, according to Shafi. 
Palestine resisted occupation, 
but it was no match to Israeli 
power, Shafi said. Palestine was 
brutalized and punished, he 
said. Due to this instance, 
Palestine suffered tremendous 
losses and material need. 
"We are giving a genuine call 
to peace with Israel," Shafi 
said. 

The United States govern­
ment has continually chosen to 
neglect Palestinian peace pro­
posals, he said. "Palestine , hopes an accepted peace initia­tive will put an end to suffer­ing," Shafi said. 
Last year's Gulf War led to 
much talk about legitimacy and ,human rights. "Focus these ·rights towards Palestine," Shafi 
said. 

"The question of international 
law has dictated there should 
be a resort to this problem," he 
said. "But Israel is not 
interested in anything the 
United States suggests. At the 
peace conference, they pro­
posed absurd conditions. · 
Despite the implied insult, 
Palestine wants an end to suf­
fering. They accepted for the 
want of peace." 
Shafi continued questioning 
Palestinian rights throughout 
his lecture. "Do Palestinians 
have a right to Palestinian ter­
ritory?" he questioned. "Israel 
continues to ignore our people­
hood and right of determina­
tion," he said. 
Shafi states that everyone 
knows that Palestine has its 
own people. However, without 
aid from other countries, such 
as the United States, Israel, a 
great military strength will 
continue to take over 
Palestinian territory, he said. 
Shaft continued his lectures 
citing "Seven myths of Israel" 
from Simha Flapan's book, 
"The Birth of Israel Myths and 
Realities." According to Flapan, 
Israel is perceived to have in­
volved themselves in a regional 
com romise which Jews sacr·­
'ijSI..-._.r.·~c':;:;;\__ 
·--1

·;1urt1e ~~~ /reeK
~--------.------J 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1 &2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 

ATTENTION 
Deadline for 1·992/93 Financial Aid Form {FAF) 
February 28, 1992 {NO) March 1·, 1992 {SMC) 
Contact your financial aid office for details. 
curtesy of the Financial Aid offices of Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary•s 
ftced for Palestine to have its own state. In actuality, this was a technical move for technical purposes, to increase territory to Israel, Flapan stated. 
After bringing up these myths Shafi said, "I'm not trying to get back to old grievances. Both parties must go to the peace process with an open mind and heart. I only hope Israel will compromise." 
Shafi stated that if his call for peace is neglected by Israel, "I'll be sorry for an absence of peace, but I will have a clear conscious." 
Shafi defended Palestinians against questions of their sin­cerity from the audience. . 
In response to one panel member's assertion that Palestinians undermined their integrity by supporting Saddam Hussein during the Gulf War, Shaft said, "Palestinian leader­ship did not distance themselves from Western audience, but popular reaction could not have been otherwise. Israelis have tortured Palestinians. Palestine could not act any other way," he said. 
Shafi graduated from the American University in Beirut in 1943 as a medical doctor. In 1949, he left for postgraduate studies in the United States and returned to Gaza in 1954. 
He began his political career during the Egyptian adminis­tration of Gaza. He represented its residents in both appointed and elected political posts. 
In a recently published essay titled "Integrity and Dialogue: My Reasons for Skepticism," Shafi wrote, "I want the future Palestinian state to be demo­cratic and pluralistic. I do not think we have any other alter­native." 
"I suspect that it will be the first Arab democratic state. We not only appreciate democracy as a principle that ensures personal freedom and dignity, but from a practical point of view, I think that only a demo­cratic way of life can help us meet the legion of problems that we are going to face as a state," he said. 

Business 

page 9

Monday, January 27, 1992 
Skinner defends proposal to eliminate tax on yachts 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush's State of the Union address will lay out a program to "get America back working again," Chief of Staff Samuel Skinner said Sunday as he de­fended a controversial proposal to eliminate the luxury tax on yachts. 
Skinner, who replaced John Sununu as the president's top aide late last year, said Bush's Tuesday night address and the budget he sends Congress on Wednesday will try to overcome an unexpected "wall of resis­tance" that's keeping the econ­omy from reviving. 

"The No. 1 issue is jobs and the economy. That is what we are going to be dealing with," Skinner said on ABC's "This Week with David Brinkley." 
The president's package, much of which has already been revealed, will propose a middle class tax break in the form of an increase in the personal exemption for families and up to $5,000 as a tax credit for first-time homebuyers. 
It will also propose up to $50 billion in additional cuts in de­fense spending over the next five years, increased incentives for business investment and a 90-day moratorium on many new government regulations. 
The election-year budget also has a host of increased spend­ing measures in such popular areas as environmenta1 cleanup, Head Start, space ex­ploration and creation of new parks and recreation areas. 
Officials confirmed that the Bush budget will propose elimi­nating a 10 percent tax on yachts costing more than $100,000. Some congressional sources said they expect the administration will also propose repealing a similar luxury tax on the purchase of airplanes. 

American television reaches Russia 
MOSCOW (AP) -Millions of TV viewers across the former Soviet Union on Sunday began watching a week of American sitcoms, mini-series, cartoons and films featuring the likes of Candice Bergen, Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway. 

Three hours of programming a night is being provided free of charge for one week on the main channel across Russia and the rest of the former republics as an experiment by Warner Brothers International Television that may lead to a Russian-dubbed "Bonnie and more permanent venture. Clyde," the 1967 gangsters film, 
The week's entertainment starring Beatty and Dunaway. was kicked off by showing a Among the other shows to be broadcast will be the films "Superman," "Being There," and the 1981 version of "The Postman Always Rings Twice;" an episode of the series "Murphy Brown," with Candice Bergen, "Life Goes On" and "Perfect Strangers;" the mini­series "Napoleon and Josephine" and several Bugs Bunny cartoons. 

JPW SEATING WILL TAKE PLACE TODAY, TOES., JAN. 28, & WED., JAN. 29 IN RM. 112 OF THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION FROM 2 -9 pm. THREE STUDENTS AND THEIR PARENTS WILL BE SEATED AT EACH TABLE. ONE STUDENT MAY BRING IN THE IDs OF THREE STUDENTS TOTAL. QUESTIONS? CALL 239-6028 OR 283-2537.  I I  

But before "Bonnie and Clyde" began shooting its way across the screen, viewers saw a 15-minute commercial de­scribing Time-Warner and its extensive media holdings. The commercial featured clips from recent films such as "JFK" and "Robin Hood Prince of Thieves." 
A Russian announcer who in troduced the commercial mis pronounced the company's name -calling it "Ornan Brothers" -even as she said it was presenting the program ming without charge. 
The TV shows and films themselves will be uninter rupted by commercials, and wil be shown in the Russian version of "prime time" -7:15 p.m. to midnight. There will be a 50 minute break, however, for the popular children's show "Good Night, Little Ones," and the main nightly news program "Novosti." 
It's not the first time that Western programming has been broadcast here. 
In recent years, there has been a proliferation of Ameri can and British shows and films, including the talk shows "Geraldo" and "Donahue" children's shows such as "Disney" and "The Muppet Show;" dramas like "Dallas' and "Santa Barbara;" and even vintage dramas from the 1960s like "I Spy," which recently be gan playing Friday nights. 

Activities Night II 
January 30, 6-Bp.m. LeMans Lobby 

•

COME GET INVOLVED! 
•
• 

~~···························································# 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, January 27, 1992 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-life and pro-choice groups should work together 
Dear Editor: That is not the case with the pealing Roe would not end the emphasizing the proper use of same beliefs that we do. We 
abortion issue. You are for problem of abortion, it would birth control and abstinence as must place our personal reli­
Since arriving at Notre Dame I choice or for life, you are never only remove it from sight. means of preventing unwanted gious beliefs aside and work for have had the opportunity to against anything. pregnancies. what is best for the nation as a read, in the Observer, a variety The alarming rate of abortion whole. of letters addressing the ever These labels imply that all in the United States is not due At the same time more sup­If both sides of the abortion controversial issue of abortion. Pro-Choicers have no regard for to its legality, it is due to a lack port should be offered to preg­issue shifted their emphasis Most of these letters have been human life while all Pro-Lifers of education and a failure in nant women who find them­away from Roe vs Wade, and rather one sided in their wish to strip women of their American society to place the selves considering an abortion. used their resources to encour­opinion and I would like to take individual rights. I, for one, highest value in human life. Money should not be the reason age better education about the opportunity to present a cannot entirely support either Compared to other industrial anyone chooses to have an pregnancy and more support different approach to the issue. side in the issue. I am appalled societies the United States has abortion. Both sides in the issue for expectant mothers, the 
at the number of unborn lifes an incredibly high rate of un­must work together to make the abortion problem could be 
Before proceding 1 find that it that are taken each year by planned pregnancies. financial and emotional solved. It is time that we realize is necessary to clear up the abortion, but, at the same time, burdens of pregnancy as the problem will never be ambiguity caused by the labels I cannot support the tactics Studies show that 50 percent minimal as possible. solved through legislation, it attached to the two sides of the used by Pro-Life to end the of pregnancies in America are can only be solved if people are issue; Pro-Choice and Pro-Life. plague of abortion. unplanned, compared to only I realize that my suggestions willing to put aside their Most issues are defined by clear 30 percent in Great Britain and fly in the face of Catholic doc­differences and work toward labels, you are either for or The problem of abortion did 17 percent in the Netherlands. trine concerning the issue of eliminating the causes of against capital punishment, for not begin with the Supreme A concerted effort should be human sexuality. We, at Notre abortion. or against a higher income tax. Court's 1973 ruling in Roe vs. made in America to provide all Dame and St. Mary's, must Josh Gaul for or against American Wade, and likewise, it will not people with a comprehensive realize that many of our fellow Cavanaugh Hall involvement in the Middle East. end if Roe is overturned. Re-sex education program Americans do not share the Jan.22,1992 
Magic Johnson does not deserve NBA All-Star status 
Dear Editor: not deserve to play, because playing day in and day out. tectable to the human eye. So that is not taken lightly by 
there are other point guards those players who start giving professional athletes. 
Last night, as I was entering who are presently better. It has Another reason for my disap­him high-fives better be careful. Unfortunately, some deserving my room, I heard a news always been my understanding proval is over the issue of AIDS. Call me an ignorant homo­player will be at home watching broadcaster enthusiastically that All-Stars are chosen based Having played a little bit of phobe, but I do not think that the game on television, and the announce that Earvin "Magic" on their performance during basketball. I have had people athletes with HIV should be en­real starting point guard will be Johnson would not only play, that season. Since Magic has sweat and spit on me, even gaging in their respective con­sitting on the bench. but start, for the West in the not played since October, it is bleed on me, and therefore do tact sport. upcoming NBA All-Star game. fair to put him out of the not envy the person who has to So when you see Magic Soon afterwards. I heard sev­running. guard him. Although AIDS sup­Though some may disagree Johnson walk onto the court to 
eral people in my hall talking posedly cannot be transmitted with my view concerning AIDS, begin the All-Star game, take a 
about Magic's final NBA game. Even in professional baseball, through sweat and saliva, there I hope that everyone will realize 
moment to think how such Unfortunately, I found it when some veterans (e.g. is still a great deal we do not that Magic does not deserve to 
exceptional athletes like John rather difficult to share in their Reggie Jackson) may not have know about its transmission. make the All-Star team, based Stockton, Kevin Johnson and elation. To put it bluntly, I feel posted the most impressive solely on his present abilities as Mitch Ritchmond must feel . selecting Magic Johnson is not statistics and still played in the More importantly, AIDS could a basketball player. Tim Loughran only a questionable decision but All-Star game based mainly on be transmitted through blood Alumni Hall an egregious error. their reputation and fame, at exchange via tiny slits in the To make the All-Star team is 
Jan.24,1992

First and foremost, Magic does least they paid their dues by skin, some of which are unde-an exceptional honor and one 
DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
HI!HtR£, ffli£iiJ 0TizeNS.1 13V/JR. W/7H )WCIXJU? .m41U {)'II TH/3 Pf?/3'35 8/JS 7HJITFO/...t.CWS 7H5 8(}SH PR&51IJ&NTIAL-CAMPAIGN~ 
t 
NC:U., NOW Y()(/CAN, 50RTOF. !OR THe Ne.KT 5/XatJ.YS, t$U !313 TAKI/Ii3 A ao58 /.DJI<. 
AT !He 1<1167'01?/C Be'rtYVI? TH/3 5aJN!? 81~l 
f?EPRJNTIN6 V/3RBATIM 13XctFP75 fl?Ot1 WH~HaJSC 77?AN!iC/?JP15, U/eU 5HOW >WCOMP!?CHeN'31Vl3 HI6HU6HT5 OF 6f30RG/38U5H's FIPSf Fl'le CAMPAIGN JI'F.Io~HN.1·1 MANetsl 50HOPA80ARI?­
ANI?JJIN 
TH/3RJN.' 
/ 

f?EMtMI!ER UNcaN,WN670HIS I<NIZS IN T/M/35 OF 7l?IAL-ANO lH/3 CIVIL-/A/AI? AN!?AUTHATSTT.Ff. CAN'T813. ANI?weAI?& 81£95ii?. 50 PC¥V'T~50!<RfRJR-a:JN'T O<YFa?Me, A!<6tNI7NA. * 
I 

'A critic is a legless man who teaches running.' 
Channing Pollock 

Stare at the butterfly. submit: 
QUOTES. P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
-
Viewpoint

Monday, January 27, 1992 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
HPC controversy coverage criticized 
Burtchaell displayed
Dear Editor: dent is that Joe Moody, editor HPC. Blasi did not contact 
In the wake of recent events of the Viewpoint section, anyone in the HPC except concerning HPC (Hall printed the letter without Pritchard and there(ore did not 
an abuse of authority
Presidents' Council), it has contacting either of us. research both sides of the story 

come to our attention that there We believe that the actions of before writing her column. 
Dear Editor: Sadly, these self-appointed
are serious problems associated The Observer on that day were And even though the Accent avenging angels not only nega­
with the journalistic standards irresponsible and libelous. Even column is meant to be an It seems to me that in all the tively affect those who are the
that The Observer has adopted. the authors of the letter later opinion piece, once again, The varied reactions to the direct targets of their malice.
In each case that we will outline retracted some of the state­Observer failed in its Burtchaell case there is a seri­in this letter The Observer has ments from the letter. Further­responsibility to seek the entire ous and central issue which has They also do a great diservicefailed to take on the more, we believe that these ac­truth. They have printed been overshadowed: the abuse to the God whom they so badyresponsibility that it owes to the tions were in disregard for the articles that have impugned the of power by those in positions misrepresent, and to their fel­
general public. professional standards which character of the members of of authority. low workers, those thousands
On Wednesday of last week, a you professed to adhere to on HPC without considering both of priests, ministers, brothers
letter written by Rob Pritchard that same day. sides of the story. There are, among today's and sisters who spend their
and Dave Jacobsen (St. On Monday, Jan. 20, we ap­We formally ask that The Ob­clergy and religious, those men lives in a sincere attempt to
Edward's Hall Presidents) was proached The Observer about server seriously re-evaluate its and women who believe that make God's kingdom, the king­
printed in your newspaper. On the above incident. We also responsibilities to the 
simpy putting on a clerical (not dom of justice and peace, athe opposite page, you printed informed The Observer that an community of the University of 
necessarily Roman) collar or reality.
your standards for Viewpoint article written that day by Notre Dame. The editors of The placing congregational initials
articles. Article III states that David Kinney contained quo­Observer have been entrusted after their names gives them There are obviously many im­
"commentaries will not be tations that were once again in with reporting the entire truth both the right and the ability to portant lessons to be learned
printed if they are libelous or error. In that meeting, it was to the public, not a part of it. 
interfere in other people's lives. from the Burtchaell case,
unintelligible." our understanding that you In light of recent events, we lessons of reconciliation as well
Article IV said that "all com­acknowledged the mistakes and believe that they have not taken They wreck often irreparable as of blame. Perhaps it is time
mentaries printed in the View­wished to make efforts to stem this duty very seriously. More­havoc in those lives, and they to be as honest about the abuse
point section must be verified such errors in the future. At the over, they have made a mockery before being printed." time, we felt that your staff of the journalistic standards do so with a smug self­of ecclesiastical power and its righteousness that leaves no ramifications as we would like
In Pritchard's letter, you bla­would make every attempt to which they printed on Wednes­room for dialogue or com­our government leaders to be
tantly contradicted both articles comply with standards of pro­day, Jan. 15. The ir­promise. Worst of all, they pass about the use of their politicalIII and IV. The letter itself fessionalism consistent with re­responsibility of The Observer off their behavior as a sincere clout.
contained damaging remarks sponsible journalism. when reporting the news must manifestation of their love for
about the HPC that later proved Two days later, an article by cease immediately. the other, and would have us Marie A. Conn
(aside from the food issue) to be Jeanne Blasi appeared in the Charlie James 
(and themselves) believe that Off campus 
unfounded. Accent section. It's tone was ac­Kevin Roxas what they do is done in God's
What bothers us (HPC Co­cusatory and damaging to the HPC Co-Chairmen Jan.21,1992 
name.

Chairmen) most about the inci-integrity of the members of Jan.23,1992 
Key West official warns potential lawbreakers 
-

alcohol and over 900 false cilities are limited and the av­3. Our streets are narrow and All laws regulating mopeds are appropriate. Thank you for your driver's licenses were confis­erage room rate is $100$150 RV or bus parking is restricted strictly enforced. attention in this matter. cated by law enforcement offi­per night. There are only two to designated areas only. Vehi­4. Key West is host to a di­cials. small campgrounds with limited cles illegally parked, or mopeds versity of lifestyles. Florida laws Felix Cooper 
2. Key West is an expensive facilities. Reservations are parked on the sidewalk, are are very strict and the Police City Manager resort destination. Lodging fa-strongly suggested. towed at the owner's expense. Department actively works with Jan.13,1992 
Humans should seek reconciliation with environment 
-

Dear Editor: hears the rustling of wind religious interpretation, how­Thus, civilized Man faces the Until humanity decides to through branches or the song of ever, is not of paramount awkward paradox of being shake off its hopeless lethargy 
In countless ways, civilization cricket or mourning dove, when importance. Suffice to say that bored with life and terrified of and self-pity, until humanity has been a great boon to one catches a whiff of pine or there exists a vital force, an death, wanting to kill his time finds the strength to search for mankind, and we are wild flower, one becomes con­optimistic energy which and yet fearing its end. meaning and beauty in itself enormously indebted to our scious of a reality which eludes humanity may experience as Despairing of the possibility of and in life, there is little reason ancestors for the rich cultural us while we are indoors. One the presence of a universal joy, Man finds life a nuisance to believe that the environment legacy of which we are the feels oneself responding to a identity or selfhood which but realizes that, short of will be saved. If the present proud heirs. However, in our call issued from the transcends physical division suicide, he has no choice but to tendency continues, Man is 
-A 

haste to leave the cradle which surrounding purity: a call to and of which Man feels very carry on. To distract himself likely to sit on his duff on a soft Nature provided for us, we have innocence, to peace, to joy. much a part. If nothing else, from his undesirable condition, couch, bag of potato chips in all too often wound up kicking this presence can be termed he makes use of every hand, while the television dirt in our Mother's face. If man The joy which one "life." conceivable method of bombards him with images of does not seriously attempt to experiences in Nature does not escapism: television, music, the decay. Of course, this reconcile himself to the living stem from the fact that she If through life we feel a movies, sex, drugs, excessive scenario is not inevitable. The world, then his future will be provides for our alimentary kinship and shared identity with consumption of goods and ser­choice is ours, it is entirely up fraught with the dire conse­needs, nor is it restricted to the all that lives, then it can truly vices--anything so long as he to us. quences of his imprudence. role she plays as wellspring of be said that what we do to may avoid thinking about 
all human creation. It is a joy Nature we do to ourselves. himself or his place in the Humanity has committed 
While there is a general which one experiences when What we have done has not scheme of things. grave sins against its understanding of Nature's one enters a forest or a been pretty. We have leveled abandoned parent, but importance for the fulfillment of meadow and feels as if one has our forests, poisoned our Man's increased dependence reconciliation is still possible. biological needs, and while been welcomed home. It is not a waters, filled our air with upon material and mechanical Perhaps we will return home, there is some appreciation of vacant home, but one marked toxins, and casually destroyed panaceas (including the mecha­as did the prodigal son of Jesus' Nature's aesthetic importance, by a distinct presence which entire species of animals and nisms of governmental and cor­parable, to fmd that despite all there is a forgotten aspect of defies easy definition. plants. porate bureaucracy) as substi­our debauchery, all is forgiven. our relationship with Nature Large-scale ecological tutes for personal responsibility We can nevertheless afford little which must be recalled if we This presence has been de­devastation has been made and love of self (as opposed to time in making the choice to are to put a halt to the scribed most often from a reli­possible by the ever-widening the prevalent selfishness, which return. Consider the grief of a 
continuing destruction of the gious perspective, perhaps most schism between Man and is not love) has left him more prodigal son who comes home 
-

living world. beautifully expressed by the Nature. Man has focused for so lazy, undisciplined, inattentive, only to find his parents dead. 
American transcenden-talists of long on that which is material and utterly bereaved of faith in 
When one contemplates the the nineteenth century: Ralph and essentially dead that he no life or himself than our ances­Paul Rowe verdant leaves of a forest or a Waldo Emerson, Henry David longer appreciates the value of tors would have ever thought St. Edward's Hall lake's crystal surface, when one Thoreau, and Walt Whitman. A life. possible. Jan.22,1992 
I I I ~ 
I Accent
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I « • 
I I I I 
I I I 
I I I I 
I I I ­
I 
I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I I I 
I I I I 
I ­
I 
I 
page 12 Monday, January 27, 1992 



The Observer 1John Rock 

In addition to lectures and refreshments, observers watched performances of Indian dancing. 
Seminar examines Indian economics, politics, and culture 
By JOHN CONNORTON majority of Indians cannot afford them. graduate student Madhu Doshi notes. there have Accent Writer "Compare this fact to the American middle been many social improvements in India. Indian class' appetite for goods," Dutt said. woman have become much more active in 
India has long been misunderstood by Dutt criticized the International Monetary society and the political arena, according to Americans. In order to address this ignorance as Fund's (IMF) attempts to encourage efficiency in Doshi. well as to provide increased knowledge to those India. Certain policies the IMF utilizes have Many women, despite the priority given to already familiar with the subject, a series of actually proven harmful to the Indian economy males, are actively pursuing primary and lectures hosted by Notre Dame faculty and stu­and to the Indian people, Dutt said. secondary educations, said Doshi. dents was given yesterday at the Hesburgh Professor Fred Dallmayr of the Department of However, Doshi said, they are unfairly Library on the economics, politics, and culture Government and International Studies, who encouraged to study subjects like home of India. spent last semester in India, spoke next on the economics and social sciences "which are 
Professor Amitava Dutt of the Economics importance of India in the world's political regarded as less prestigious in India." Department discussed the current economic si­arena. Women activist groups, regionally and 
tuation in India. Many of the problems now "Americans have a profound interest in Africa, economically diverse, have actively campaigned troubling the economy, Dutt said, can be at­South America, and the Middle East. Their for legalized abortions, liberalized divorce, and tributed to the influence of British colonial rule. interest in India is relatively modest in other rights Western women take for granted, 
British colonialists transformed what was comparison," said Dallmayr. Doshi said. primarily a textile-based manufacturing nation Dallmayr said he wished more Americans Yet, Indian woman still face many persistent to a country almost entirely dependent on would take an interest in the affairs of India, the obstacles in the form of Indian customs that agriculture, said Dutt. largest functioning democracy in the world. Both prevent true sexual equality. Spousal abuse, 
India's rigid caste system has also proved to be the United States and India were once prominent dowry deaths, and rape still remain in India. The a serious obstacle to India's economic de­British colonies, a fact that should not go ancient custom of burning wives on the funeral velopment. "Society does not allow much unnoticed, said Dallmayr. pyres of husbands has been making a disturbing 
mobility. Economic policy tends to be very "However," said Dallmayr, "the wounds of comeback, said Doshi. elitist," said Dutt. "The caste system does not colonialism are still fresh in Indian memory." Doshi concluded by expressing her desire that encourage entrepreneurial activity." The legacy of British colonial rule has caused there would soon be "new space for Indian 
The caste system has interfered with what could be permanent strife on the Indian women." agricultural development, said Dutt. Brahmin sub-continent, said Dallmayr. The division of In addition to the lectures, there a Hindustani and other prominent Indian social figures India into Pakistan and India by the British has music and classical dance presentation along 
-
strongly resisted land reform which would have created a much more efficient agricultural economy. 
The majority of India lives in abject poverty while a small few are tremendously wealthy. In­dia's unequal distribution of income has created a severe economic problem, said Dutt. There is little or no demand for goods because the created an extraordinary tense and difficult situation. 
Ethnic, religious, caste, and regional divisions have exacerbated the economic, political, and social crises in India, he said. 
"India does not offer a rosy picture," added Dallmayr. However, as Notre Dame alumnus and 
with traditional Indian refreshments. 
This seminar on India was presented by the India Association of Notre Dame, a group which has been active on campus for over ten years. The Association is planning to honor Holi, the Festival of Color, in the next few months for South Bend/Mishawaka community members of Indian descent. 
SCOREBOARD

Monday, January 27, 1992 page 13 
Game statistics 

NHL STANDINGS NBA STANDINGS 
WALES CONFERENCE EASTERN CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlalon Atlantic Dlvlalon
Ill 
w L T Pts CF Gl\ w L Pet.
Bills Redsklns 
NY Rangers 31 17 2 64 196 164 New York 25 15 .625 Washington 29 16 4 62 212 164 Boston 26 16 .619
Net ~40 yards 
Pittsburgh 25 18 5 55 216 183 Philadelphia 21 21 .500 5
passing~ 292 yards 
New Jersey 23 16 7 53 177 143 Miami 20 23 .465 6 112 NY Islanders 17 24 6 40 174 192 New Jersey 19 22 .463 6 112
Net~S rushing~ 125 yards 
Philadelphia 14 24 9 37 133 165 Washington 14 26 .350 11 Orlando 11 30 .268 14 1/2 
Adame Dlvlalon Central Dlvlalon Montreal 31 16 4 66 161 116 Chicago 37 5 .861 Boston 23 19 6 52 169 166 Cleveland 2 7 13 .675 9 Buffalo 19 22 8 46 174 180 Detroit 23 19 .548 14 
Hartford 15 23 7 37 138 157 Atlanta 21 20 .512 15 112 Quebec 12 30 5 29 145 191 Milwaukee 1 9 22 .463 17 112 Indiana 15 
28 .349 22 112 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Charlotte 12 30 .286 25 Norrie Dlvlalon WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Turnovers~ Sacks~:~(/••$•! 
w L T Pts CF Gl\ Midwest Division Detroit 28 14 6 62 200 156 w L Pet. Time of possession 
Chicago 22 18 10 54 166 149 Utah 27 16 .628 St. Louis 2 t 20 8 50 173 170 San Antonio 2 3 18 .561 3 Minnesota 2 0 21 4 44 150 161 Houston 22 19 .537 4 Toronto 1 4 30 5 33 128 182 Denver 17 24 .415 9 
Dallas 13 28 .317 13 
Smythe Dlvlalon Minnesota 7 34 .171 19 Vancouver 2 8 13 7 63 170 136 Pacific Division Calgary 21 20 7 49 185 169 Golden State 2 6 11 .703 Winnipeg 20 22 9 49 152 158 Portland 28 13 .683 Los Angeles 1 9 19 10 48 175 186 Phoenix 28 15 .651 Edmonton 18 25 7 43 176 196 LA Lakers 25 16 .610 3 San Jose 11 34 4 26 125 214 Seattle 20 22 .476 8 112 ­
LA Clippers 20 23 .465 9 Sacramento 1 2 29 .293 16 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FOUND:  set of keys with key  ROOM TO RENT USE OF ALL  BOOKS$$$-BUYING:  ATIENTION: SPRING BREAKERS  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE  
NOTICES  chain on the road between the War Memorial and Nieuwland  UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794 PAUL  Int. Dynamics, Fluids, Micro SELLING: Diff Eq., Solids,  INTERESTED IN:  CLUB If you missed our first  
around 7:30p.m. on Thursday  El Circuits (EE222), West  meeting, don't despair!  
CUSTOMIZED WORD  evening 1/23. Call x2822 to  Civ. books too -Dan 1999  CANCUN  Come to Stepan Center  
PROCESSING  claim.  LAFAYETIE SQUARE  BAHAMAS  on Thurs. Jan. 30 from  
Reports/resumes/letters. 271-1618.  has 1 -four bed and 1-five bed unit avialable for next  Need any house PAINTING done?  SO. PADRE DAYTONA  8-9:30 and we'll start over just for you! C'mon  
If you lost a gray tweed jacket at  year  Experienced, quality painting  OR  CARPE DIEM!  
Critter's wedding, call Twohy at 277­ Call NOW, they won't last long  at reasonable prices. Call Mark at  PANAMA CITY  
4395.  232-8256  277-6578.  
USED TEXTBOOKS!  CALL LANCE@ 271-1681  
Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books  LOST: GOLD RING WITH JADE  Off-Campus Aprt. Open  Nintendo system w/cartridges. Best  Team 70S's Top Quotes & Highlights form Toledo:  
3 blks. from NO  STONE.  LOST ON JAN  22ND IN  offer. Call Paul x1220  ADOPT -Devoted father, full-time  -The Van Dance.  
233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun  ROOM  23 OF HAYES-HEALY.  Furnished Studio with kitchen  mother seek newborn to join family.  -"Can you do that Math? I could  
HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. $REWARD.  if interested call: Matt at 283-1518  TICKETS  We promise your baby love and understanding, a good education &  never do that Math?" -"Minnesota's the best place in the  
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give the  CALL LISA AT X4832  fun. Supportive grandparents.  WORLD!" Not!  
best valentine of all YOURSELF!  Legal. Call Bev & Howard  -"Your Honor, May I respond?""  
GLAMOUR portraits by nationally published model photographer. Free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287­0613.  Found: scarf in Niewland classroom: call1007 to claim  Downtown Mishawaka office for lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.) 900 sq. 11.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a month. Call272-6877.  MICH-ND B-BALL TICKETS NEEDED. 284-5084.  COLLECT 914-235-3917. STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  -"It's so hot in this van!" -"This van has got a draft!" -The Bronze Bomber. -1-800-THE-ROOF  
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA  WANTED  Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's  PERSONAL  Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  -Nap anyone. We're only at the counsel table. -"Hey! Who's that cute witness?"  
Stay Where the Action is ....... Oceanfront accomodations I 701 South Nightclub. (as seen on MTV) from $75.00. 18 and older welcome. Call today 1-800-633­7010.  $350.00/DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242.  families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. Ten minutes from campus. Safest neighborhood in area 324·2626. TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans!  -Being in the dark with all of my closest friends, wondering just WHO DID IT? -Woolworkth's -MARK -I never.. _  
INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP JS OPENING THE BIBLE TO UNDERSTAND BASIC  $40,000/YR! READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN11 KEB  CAMPUS, SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER & DRYER, 4 BDRMS, 9 MO. LEASE, 4-5 STUDENTS, DEPOSIT REQUIRED. 259-7801 OR 255-5852 FOR MORE INFO! FOR SALE  SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER VACATIONS! Jamaica, Bahamas including airfare, great hot\31. and much more from only $599. Buy from the #1 name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS  FAX MAGS Fax your Mac documents for $1 page. Free campus pick-up of your disk. Call Michael at-237-1864.  -Patti did it! -"My sweater was thrown asunder!" -Hey-Where's Patti? -Look out Mark (or it is Ed?)-She's got your room number! -"Are you sure those rubbers are going to lit you?" -"Save that sashay for the bar  
CHRISTIAN BELIEFS  1-800-331-3136.  A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days  scene._:  
ALL ARE INVITED TO COME & SHARE IN THIS FELLOWSHIP WITH ND/SMC STUDENTS ON TUESDAYS AT 7:30 AT SEIGFRIED CHAPEL FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: KEVIN X1417 SEAN 227-4436 ROMANS 1:16 ALTERATIONS AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL  YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN, FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, AIR, TRANSFERS. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­7710. SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona, $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas $449. Best prices & accommodations guaranteed!!! 1 (BOO) 724-1555 or 236-5825 (24 hrs.)  Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a Notre Dame Cook. $3. M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml 49120. CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright# 1N11KJC  TALL "COWBOY" wanted for Country/Western dance partner. Call Jen x1715 TOP 10 REASONS WHY PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE PERFECT MAN: 10. He sits quietly wherever you put him and behaves. 9. He never even LOOKS at other women.  $279! Panama City $99, Padre $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399 from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681 or Lisa 283-4667 or 1-800-638-6186. To fly-man and friends: Ribit, Ribit. -Frog-man COMING FEB. 8TH !!! 7:30 PM, WASHINGTON HALL 7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD CONTEST. TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER  -Queen of victory pray for us. -All I know is, I sat on a coiled belt! -7th Place-We made it! Nationals here we come! This team's got BALLS! Thanks for the fun! Love Fong and Kristie. Why oh why do I get myself into these messes. Oh my God! My cousin is engaged! Congratulations Joe Colucci!  
259-8684. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. MATH TUTOR-All levels. Don't wait 'til it's too late! 271-1532  FOR RENT HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159. 6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR  SAVE $ ON YOUR SPRING BREAK TRIP!! Travel vouchers good for airfare, hotel, & car rental worth $450. I need to sell-they expire! Best offer! X3352  8. You can make him look any way you want-and yes-you can even control his size ... 7. Black-Red-Yellow-White--(Blue ???) Any color you like! 6. He listens to all your problems and doesn't judge you_ 5. He doesn't make blond jokes (or brunette jokes)  rwelcom~ Back!  
FAST EASY INCOME! Earn tOO's Weeekly Stuffing envelopes. Send self-addressed stamped envelope to: Extra income I P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL 60681-1699 LOST/FOUND LOST-NJ Drivers License-Very important since I need to drive and I won't be returning home until after graduation. Please return and get a reward$$$. Call Lauren X­1711.  CAMPUS.SECURITY SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992. 272­6306 4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 92-93. HURRY, NOT MANY LEFT. SECURITY SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. 287-4989. HOUSE FOR RENT IN '92/'93 SBR, 2 BTH. 1800 SO FT. washer/dryer, recently remodeled, near NO call 232-8256  Zenith Portable Laptop, bklit, w/batt, 2 3.5" drives, EC, Call Chris x1723 5-CD carousel player-good condition. Got new player for Xmas. $100 OBO Sean 273-9403. Gateway 2000, 386/SX, 4 months old, 40 meg. HO., Windows 3.0, MS Dos 5.0, 14" color monitor, much more. $1,395 or will consider offer. Jeff 271-1822.  (or any jokes at all!) 4. He's there whenever you need him. 3. He smells good! 2. He never calls you a "dumb girl" AND THE NUMBER ONE REASON WHY PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE PERFECT MAN: 1. When you have PMS and you feel like bashing someone's head against the wall, he won't mind if you shmush him into smithereens! 01/28 Living with AIDS-an informal  ~ NowGo ..._Away~ London $199* Munich $169* Tel Aviv $319* Sydney $677* Bangkok $579* •Fares are ead1 way from Chicago based on a roundtrip purchase. Taxes not included restrictions apply. Call for other v.orlm'v'id•~ 1 destinations, boll1 one way end r0ll1dtrip. Council Travel  - 

FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH talk with an NO alumnus:Lioyd 1153 N. Deabom St., 2nd floor '83 Ford FUTURA: 4-door,p.s., 
Found: a pair of keys on a Notre 
TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. Sims, '71. Tues 28th, 7:30pm 
Chicago, 1160610
p.b., rear defog, runs good,Dame keyring near the ACC last 

in the CSC.?'s call Brian 1663 Friday. Call x2963 to claim. 
FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST looks good. $1,200 OBO 
311-951-0585
LAST+ SEC. 684-3778. 
259-0815 

Call For A Free 1991 Student Travel catalog! 
page 14 The Observer 
Courier defeats Edberg for Open title 
MELBOURNE, Australia (AP) ­Jim Courier, swinging a racket like a baseball slugger and sporting a cap to match, is on the verge of becoming the first American man ranked No. 1 since John McEnroe. 
Only nine men have ascended to the top in the 20 years of ATP rankings, dominated for most of that period by Jimmy Connors, Bjorn Borg, McEnroe, Ivan Lend! and Stefan Edberg. 
Courier's 6-3, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2 victory over Stefan Edberg in the Australian Open final Sun­day put the red-haired, 21­year-old from Dade City, Fla., in a position take over Edberg's No. 1 spot in two weeks at the end of the next tournament in San Francisco. 
Courier, ranked No. 25 at the start of last year, left Australia trailing Edberg by only 20
-points in the ATP computer rankings-3,671 to 3,651 -a difference he can easily over­come with early-round wins in San Francisco as Edberg sits out that event. That would end a nearly seven-year drought at the top of the rankings for Americans since McEnroe reigned for nearly five years until mid­1985. Courier also would be the third youngest to become No. 1, trailing by a few months McEn­roe in 1980 and Borg in 1977. Courier, who became the first American man to win the Australian Open in 10 years and captured his second Grand Slam title in six months, cele­brated by dashing out of the stadium and jumping into a river with his tennis shorts on. "It was really dirty," a smiling Courier said of his dive with coach Brad Stine into the polluted Yarra River to fulfill a 
deal they made each other as 
they jogged past its banks each 
day of the tournament. 
Courier, overwhelmed by a 
near-perfect Edberg in the U.S. 
Open after beating him en route 
to the French Open crown, 
drove a final backhand return 
past him like a double down the 
line to win this time. 
"It tastes just as sweet," Courier said as he compared the Australian title with the French. "It's a little bit differ­ent, because I've done it before, but it's no less significant." 
Courier said he's not driven 
to be No. 1, though he clearly 
would enjoy the status. 
"What I'm motivated to do is to play the best tennis that my game can allow me to play, and I think I'm becoming closer and closer to that," he said. "If the best I can do is to be No. 2 in the world, well, then that's not so bad. 
Edberg, who missed the last two months of 1991 with wrist and knee injuries, played far below his form in the U.S. Open. Edgy and out of synch most of the match, he unchar­acteristically complained about a couple of calls, as well as the softness of the balls. He said the balls were different from the ones used the rest of the tournament, and they took the power and kick out of his serves. 
"I didn't have the timing to­day," Edberg said. "I didn't play the big points as he did. I tried to do different things, but it wouldn't work. I lost my con­centration slightly a few times, and you are not supposed to do that." 
Courier won this match from the baseline, just as Monica Se­les won the women's singles Saturday, though Courier ven-

KOHALA COAST, Hawaii (AP) ­Arnold Palmer staged one of his classic charges Sunday to win two holes worth seven skins and $205,000 in the Senior Skins Game. 
After playing poorly and be­ing shut out the first day of the two-day tournament, Palmer stormed back to win $100,000 when he chipped in from the fringe on the 12th hole, then picked up $105,000 more with a 15-foot birdie putt on No. 15. 
The total of $205,000 for Palmer, at 62 the oldest player in the Senior Skins, gave him the tournament title for 1992. He also won the Senior Skins in 1990, when he earned $240,000. 
Chi Chi Rodriguez won $105,000 Sunday, $70,000 with a 40-foot putt for birdie on No. 17, and $35,000 with a 5-foot birdie putt on the first playoff hole after No. 18 was tied. That ran his total for the tournament to $120,000. 
Jack Nicklaus, the big win­ner last year with $310,000, this time was blanked over the nine holes played Sunday after winning $95,000 the first day. Lee Trevino, who also came up empty on Sunday, won $30,000 on Saturday. 
"After the way I played Sat­urday, I was about as low as I've been in some time," Palmer said. "I practiced some after we played, went out and played most of the back nine, and I felt a little better." 
Nicklaus smiled and said he felt almost like a spectator on Sunday, explaining, "When you shoot something like a 34 and don't win a skin ... you just watch two guys play as well as Arnold and Chi Chi did and feel you weren't even really in the game." 
Both Palmer's big money­winning shots came on par-3, 202-yard holes at the Mauna Lani Resort course. 
Palmer, who overnight seemed to straighten out prob­lems with his irons that plagued him Saturday, hit his tee shot to within 15 feet of the pin on No. 15 after the two previous holes were tied. 
Trevino, who was just out­side Palmer, missed his putt, then Palmer stroked the ball into the middle of the cup to earn $105,000. 
Palmer's winning shot on the 12th hole was even more dra­matic. Palmer hit long on the hole and wound up on the back fringe, with Nicklaus and Ro­driguez both on the green. 
Palmer's chip from 45 feet, however, twisted down and into the hole and Nicklaus and Ro­driguez both missed their putts. 

-

tured in on short balls far more 
often to put winners away. 

The layoff since Wednesday didn't hurt Courier's sharpness, as he feared. He held service throughout the first set, facing only two breakpoints, and broke Edberg to go ahead 4-2. Edberg contributed to his break with the first of his seven double-faults in the match at deuce, then lost the game when he netted a weak volley on a ripping backhand return by Courier. 
Edberg evened the match in the second set, breaking Courier in the second game with a lovely lob that landed on the baseline. But such moments were rare for Edberg. Courier almost came back in that set, too, but a string on his racket popped on breakpoint with Ed­berg serving at 5-3. 
Courier dropped his service in the first game of the third set as Edberg pushed himself hard. Edberg kicked a ball off the court in anger after Courier fought back to deuce from love­40, but the Swede finally got the break -only his second of the match -when Courier's backhand drifted long and wide. 
But Courier came right back, pushing Edberg to love-40, and grabbing the break on a fore­hand volley crosscourt. Edberg double-faulted for the third and fourth time in the third set on the last two points, and never 
again raised the quality of his .,....--------------------------1 
game. 

In the final set, Courier broke Edberg to 4-2 with an­other backhand return that Edberg couldn't handle. Courier had 28 backhand winners in the match to just one for Edberg. 
Palmer cleans up at Senior Skins with comeback 
The 13th hole had been tied with routine pars, and Ro­driguez and Trevino both had birdies on No. 14 to build the pot to $105,000 on the 15th. 
Rodriguez also helped set the stage for Palmer's big payoff on No. 12. Rodriguez birdied No. 9 on Saturday to tie Nicklaus for the hole and carry that $25,000 over to the first hole on Sunday. 
Rodriguez started the second day with another birdie, tying Palmer for the hole and build­ing the pot to $75,000 on No. 
11. Once again, after Palmer made an 18-foot birdie putt on the 11th hole, Rodriguez tied him again, rolling in a 16-footer for his birdie. 
That built the payoff on No. 12 to $100,000, and Rodriguez couldn't pull out a tie this time, missing from 10 feet after Palmer made his dramatic chip shot. 


Monday, January 27, 1992 


CAMPUS COMPETITION Indoor Soccer (Men & Women) Badminton Doubles (Open) Co-Ree Water Volleyball 
INTERHALL COMPETITION RecSports Swim Relays (team event) 
QUESTIONS? CALL...239-6100 
Deadline -January 29 
YOU'VE KNOWN YOUR WHOLE LIFE YOU WERE GOING To BE A DOCTOR. 
DON'T RISK IT NOW. 
YOU'RE ALMOST THERE. YOU'VE WORKED HARD ALL THESE YEARS AND NOW IT'S TIME TO TAKE THE MCAT. DON'T YOU THINK YOU SHOULD PREPARE ? 
I 0 STUDENTS PER CLASS I 00 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRilTEN BY PH.O.S 8< M.O.S 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 CLASSES STARTING NOW! 
EDUCATIONAL GROUP
• 

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
Monday, January 27, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Redskins deny Bills Super8owl rings in 37-24 win 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -The no­names on Washington's defense were too much Sunday for Buffalo's no-huddle offense. 
The Redskins won their third Super Bowl in 10 years, 37-24, putting the game away with 24 straight points after a scoreless first period in which they blew two touchdown chances. 
The Bills, one-point losers to the New York Giants in the Super Bowl a year ago, never were in this meeting of the teams with the two best records in the league. Only two touchdowns late in the fourth quarter made it seem that way. 
Mark Rypien, the game's MVP, was 18 of 33 for 292 yards and two touchdowns as Washington ran the NFC's streak in the NFL's marquee game to eight straight. 
But the win was as much the work of obscure defenders like Kurt Gouveia, Brad Edwards, Fred Stokes, Jason Buck, Alvoid Mays and Andre Collins as any of the team's stars. 
Edwards had two of the Redskins' four interceptions; Gouveia, with help from a Collins blitz, set up a score by picking off a Jim Kelly pass on the first play of the second half and Mays' sack, one of five for the 'Skins, forced a fumble that Stokes recovered. 
"We played a team that was better. They showed it," said Buffalo coach Marv Levy, whose Bills lost 20-19 last year. 
It held Thomas in check, kept Buffalo out of its territory until 3:10 remained in the first half and generally allowed little until two Buffalo late touch­downs made the score more re­spectable than the game. 

"Thurman Thomas is a great running back," defensive end Charles Mann said. "They just didn't use him. I think we got some scores and got up early and they got away from their game plan. I thought he'd carry 30 times." Whatever, the defense con­tributed to three second-half TDs. 
"We gave them a lot of dif­ferent window dressing. I think we confused them early on," Mann said. 
It wasn't all defense, of 
course 
The "Posse" -receivers Art Monk, Gary Clark and Ricky Sanders -led a 17-point ex­plosion in 5 minutes, 45 sec­onds of the the second quarter after a scoreless first period. That surge saw the Redskins use no-huddle offense them­selves in a modified reprise of their record 35-point second quarter in their Super Bowl rout of Denver four years ago. 
Monk had 7 catches for 113 yards and Clark 7 for 114 yards, including a 30-yard catch with 1:24 left in the third quarter after Buffalo had cut a 24-0 lead to 24-10. Next to Gouveia's interception, that may have been the key play. 


YouVeJustBeenOeared ForTakeOff 
You can get a lot more out of life when Depending on where you fly, each the Card will say a lot about you. For one you set your sights a little school year travel certifi­thing it says you have a handle on what you cate is good for spend, so you don't have to carry over abal­
higher. Which -.,.... 
is what applying $129 or $189 round­ance. It also says you're smart enough not to for the American Express"' trip-and each summer travel pay interest charges that can really add up. Card is all about. When you get the certificate is good for $149 or So take a few minutes 
Airfare examples now to call (have
Card, its easier to do the things you want $199 roundtrip. 
based on destination. b k dd 
to do. And with the student savings that · th t g d YourSchoot your an a ress
SaVtngs a Up ra e Roundtdpo Year Fare and aCCOUnt numbercome along with it, you can do even more. 

your lifestyle. NewYork-LosAngeles ready), and apply
$$1 89 
129
Boston-Orlando

Fly roundtrip on Continental d bAsa student Car mem er you San Francisco-Denver $129 for the American 
for less than $100 each way. get more than great travel sav-Express Card. Student Cardmembers receive four travel ings. You also save money on everything With all that the Card offers you, not certificates. They can be used to fly any­from clothing to long distance phone calls. even the sky is the limit. where Continental Airlines flies in the All for a $55 annual fee. 48 contiguous United States. Two for the Obviously, savings like these say a lot THE CARD. school year, and two for the summer~ about the value ofthe Card. And having THE AMERICAN EXPRESS"' CARD. 

Get going, call1-800~967~AMEX. 
Ifyou're already a Cardmember, there's no need co call. ·school year is considered Sept. l-June 14, summer June 15-Aug. 31. Compie~e terms and conditions o~ th_i~ travel offer _wilJ arriv~ ~irh ,rour certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. Amencan Express assumes no hablltty for Contmental Auhnes performance. 

© 1992 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. An Amencan Express company 
~------~--------------­
page 16 The Observer Monday, January 27, 1992 
Duke, UCLA, Kansas win; Kentucky, Louisville lose 
Christian Laettner scored 25 points as the Blue Devils (14-0, 5-01 rolled at home for their best ACC start since 1964 and a 20-game winning streak overall. Rodney Rogers led the Demon Deacons (10-5, 3-4) with 18 points. 
No. 2 UCLA 83, No. 24 Stanford 77 
The Bruins (14-0, 6-0) are off to their best start since 1972­73. Stanford (11-3, 3-2), which lost two straight Pac-10 games after entering the Top 25 this week, hit just 17 of 33 from the free throw line. Tracy Murray led UCLA with 23 points. Adam Keefe topped the Cardinal with 24. 
No. 3 Oklahoma St. 84, Oral Roberts 61 
Byron Houston's 30 points and 21 from 7-foot freshman Bryant Reeves helped the Cowboys (18-0). Ray Thompson led the Titans (6-151 with 32 points. 
No. 5 Kansas 1 03, Nebraska 78 
Adonis Jordan scored 18 of his 20 points on 3-pointers for the Jayhawks (14-1, 3-0), off to their best Big Eight start in six 
Swim 
continued from page 18 
Haley Scott and sophomore Ali­cia Feehery finished third and fourth respectively. Freshmen Lorrei llorenkamp and Michelle Lower were sixth and seventh, In addition to Williams' victory in the 100 backstroke, Garvey placed fourth, Stephens placed sixth, and junior Kristen Broderick placed seventh. Freshmen Amy Bethem (third) and Julie Schick (sixth) finished behind Wood in the 100 breast. Freshman Angela Roby finished second in the 200 butterfly followed by sophomores Kristin Heath (fourth) and Karen Keeley (fifth). The Irish swept the lower places in the 50 freestyle. Beeler, sophomore Colette LaForce, junior Christy Van Patten, and senior Jackie Jones finished third through sixth respectively. In the one-meter diving event, senior Jenny Kipp placed sec­ond, sophomore Angela Gugle placed fourth, junior Jennifer Stumm placed fifth, and fresh­man Karen Kipp placed sixth. Off the three-meter board, the elder Kipp finished second again with Stumm fourth, freshman Diane Walton fifth, and Gugle sixth. Stephens, Broderick, and Garvey took third, fourth, and fifth respectively behind Williams in the 200 back race. Wood (second). Bethem (fourth), and Heath (fifth) fin­ished well in the 200 breast­stroke. Distancers Bohdan (fourth) and Horenkamp (fifth) 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
out and play hard." 
As well, MacLeod will be seeking his first-ever victory at the Joyce ACC. Notre Dame has come close in its first three home games to getting him that elusive game, and perhaps that has been part of the problem according to the first-year coach. 
"We've been trying hard, maybe too hard," said MacLeod. "We realize that we have a lot of work to do yet, but we've been showing im­provement, and our confidence level is up for tonight." 
placed well in the 500 free. Broderick seventh in the 400 In the 100 butterfly, Scott individual medley. In the final finished fifth, Beeler sixth, Van event, the free relay, Notre Patten seventh, and Hipp eighth Dame finished third with the while Williams placed second, help of Beeler, Garvey, Van Pat­Roby fourth, Heath sixth, ten, and Feehery. 
. . . ~ .. 
. . . ' 
'
.M-···B A··. .J..
. o·· 
;i. ·-. i . ·:· . ' 
. . . .. ' ·.,': , . . .. 
·M.D. • PH_~[)·
. . . ­
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
rnalKI
EOUC!TIONH GROUP 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION 8c COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273· 1866 WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 


Attention All Sophomores! 
-Sophomore Class Dinner Tuesday 6-8 p.m. at Macri's See you there! 
-Are you interested in running for Junior Class Office? Then come to an informational session Tuesday at 6:00 p.m. in Montgomery Theater to find out what a class officer really does. 
seasons. Eric Piatkowski and Derrick Chandler each had 17 points for the Cornhuskers (13­3, 1-2). 
No. 7 Connecticut 83, Boston Coli. 77 OT 
Chris Smith hit six of his 23 points in OT as the Huskies (15­1, 6-1) took over sole possession the Big East lead. The Eagles (11-6, 3-5) were led by Billy Curley's 22 points. 
No. 9 Arkansas 1 05, No. 8 Kentucky 88 
Lee Mayberry led a balanced attack with 23 points as Arkansas ran past Kentucky in the matchup of SEC division leaders. 
"They're one of the top teams in the country," Kentucky coach Rick Pitino said. "They're a better team than we are and they showed it tonight." 
Mayberry's six free throws in the final minute helped the Razor backs (17 -3, 6-1) fend off a late charge by Kentucky (14­4, 4-2). 
No. 10 N. Carolina 77, Virginia 56 
Hubert Davis, coming off the bench for only the second time this season, had 19 points as for the Tar Heels (14-3, 4-2), who had a 16-4 run in the second half. Bryant Stith, in foul trouble early, led Virginia (8-8, 2-4) with 17 points. 
No. 11 Arizona 96, Pitt 76 
Khalid Reeves, Chris Mills and Ed Stokes combined for 40 of their 54 points in the second half and Arizona scored 19 straight in mid-game to win at home.The Wildcats (13-3) broke out of a 34-34 halftime tie with 11 straight points. Reeves had 15 of his 19 points in the last 20 minutes, Mills 16 of his 22 and Stokes 11 of his 13. Darren Morningstar had 17 points for Pitt (11-8). 
No. 12 Missouri 69, Colorado 52 
Jevon Crudup scored 18 points and Anthony Peeler 16 for the Tigers (14-2, 2-1). Randy Robinson scored 17 points to lead the Buffalos (9-7, 0-3). 
No. 13 Syracuse 58, No. 22 St. John's 56 
The Orangemen (14-2, 6-2) earned their sixth straight win over St. John's at the Carrier Dome. Mike Hopkins' free throw with 37 seconds left broke a tie and then Dave Johnson and Conrad McRae each came up with a steal for Syracuse. The loss was the fourth in six games -all Big East road defeats -for the Redmen (10-6, 4-4), who were led by Malik Sealy's 15 points. 

No. 15 Alabama 68, Georgia 65 
James Robinson returned from a one-game suspension to score 17 points as the Crimson Tide (15-4, 3-3) broke a three­game losing streak. The Bulldogs (9-7, 2-4) didn't score over the final 3:14 in losing at home for the first time in seven games this season. Litterial Green led Georgia with 14 points. 
No. 16 Michigan 98, Wisconsin 83 
Chris Webber has 25 points and 17 rebounds to lead the Wolverines (11-4, 3-3) to their first Big Ten home victory of the season. Tracy Webster had 24 points for the Badgers (1 0-8, 1­4). 
No. 18 Georgia Tech 73, No. 20 Louisville 65 
Jon Barry led the visiting Yellow Jackets (14-5) with a crucial 3-pointer and three free throws in the final minute. Louisville (11-4) had cut a 52­41 lead to two points before Barry's third 3-pointer of the game. Everick Sullivan had 11 points for the Cardinals. 
No. 21 Tulane 99, 
Temple 75 
Anthony Reed had 24 points and 14 rebounds as the Green Wave (15-1) led by as many as 31 points. Tulane forced 15 turnovers and outrebounded the visiting Owls (7 -7) 44-27. Rick Brunson led Temple with 15 points. 
No. 23 Texas-EI Paso 66, 
Hawaii 57 
Eddie Rivera and Marlon Maxey came off the bench in the first half to key a 19-4 run as UTEP won at Hawaii. 


Monday, January 27, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Duke reigns poll SPORTS SHORTS
NAL COLLEGIATE SPORTSWRITERS POLL 
for fifth week 
Observer Staff Report 
The Duke Blue Devils Team(1st place votes) Reconl Points remained atop the heap in this week's National Collegiate 

1 (1) Duke (21) 14-0 525 
Sportswriters' Poll released last 

2 (2) UCLA 14-0 500 
night.

3 (3) 0\llahoma Slate 16-0 486 4 (4) Indiana 14-2 426 With few upsets this week, 
5 (5) Connecticut 15-1 415 there was very little movement 
2 6 (7) Kansas 14-1 413 in this week's poll. The top five 7 (8) Ar1<ansas 17-3 401 
teams remained the same from

,. 
8 (6) Ohio 12-2 366 
last week, and only 12th­

9 (10) Al1zona 13-3 353 10 (11) North carolina 14-3 312 ranked Kentucky (ninth last 
11 (12) Missouri 14-2 310 week) dropped out of the top ! ~.:·..:;-:· ·'.i!.':>' .:~-· •• 12 (9) Kentucky 14-4 290 
ten. 

13 ( 15) Syracuse 14-2 249 
The Blue Devils (14-0)

14 (14) Alabama 15-4 225 15 (16) Michigan 11-4 219 received all 21 first-place votes 
16 (13) Michigan Slate 13-2 218 to easily outdistance the only 17 ( 17) Georgia Tech 14-5 177 
other undefeated teams left in 

18 (18) Ol<lahOma 12-3 165 
Division I, number-two UCLA

osu 
19 (20) Tulane 15-1 149 
(14-0) and third-ranked

20 (21) UNC-Charlotte 13-2 1\5 21 (25) UTEP 16-\ 91 
·~·: •.• I .• . 
Oklahoma State (18-0). Duke 

22 (19) St.Johns 10-6 61 
crushed Wake Forest 84-68 on 

23 (23) Seton Hall 10-5 56 
Saturday, while the Bruins 

24 (22) Louisville 11-4 53 25 (·) UNLV 17-2 45 
squeaked by Stanford 83-77 in

4-® 
overtime and the Cowboys

Othera re<»>vlng vo..o: Stanford 37, LSU 26, Mln.-ota 23, Florida State 18, Nebraska 11, Georgetown tO, Houston 7, 
cruised by Oral Roberts, 84-61. 

Iowa State 6, Virginia 6, DePaul 5,1owa 5, New Mexico St. 5, 
Indiana (14-2). idle until

Wls-Green Bay 5,Princeton 4, USC 4, Florida 3, VIDanova 3, Wake Forest 3, George Washington 2, Rica 2. Southam Illinois 2. 
Tuesday when they host in­

BYU 1, Mlami(Ohio) t, New Orleans\, Penn 1, Tennessee t. 
state rival Purdue, and 
Connecticut (15-1), six-point

Schoolo polrticlp.tlng: AlaOOma, Arizona, Ball State, BYU,
~~@ 
Colorado, Colurrbia, Duke, Florida, Illinois, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan 
winners over Boston College on 

Missouri, Notre Dame. Penn. Purdue, Syracuse, Texas, Utah, Virginia. 
Saturday, round out the top

West Virginia 
five.

L---------~Th~e~O~~--eN-e-~~An-n~-Ma~rie~Co-n-ra~do~ 
UNLV (17 -2) debuted in the poll this week. The Rebels, 7 4­
67 winners over New Mexico State two days ago, moved into the 25th spot, replacing

Angie­

Stanford in the rankings. 

Youv'e come a long 
~·-~:;:PARIS DISCOVERIES 
SUMMER PROGRAM 1992 
way,baby! 
lntersession: May 25 -June 12 Summer Session: June 15-July 24
Happy 21 
E

.A. More than 50 regular offerings from the 
University's liberal arts curriculum . 
.A. A three-week French language immersion program, featuring cultural walking tours and 
conversation sessions .
Love, 
c 

& A short course on the new Germany
Dad, Mom, Gina, 
culminating in a five-day study trip to Berlin. 
& Weekend excursions: Normandy, Champagne, Loire Valley chateaux, and 
Marco & John 
v 

Giverny. & Seminar tours with the University of 
•~~!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!! Texas & the University of New
Hampshire. 
c

Send for our 1992 Summer Program Brochure: The American University of Paris Summer Programs/U.S. Office 
80 East 11th Street, Suite 434

lfpcoming Events 
L 

New York, New York 10003 Tel. (212) 677-4870 Fax. (212) 475-5205 
TUESDAY. JANUARY 28 
THE 
E

AMERICAN UNIVERSITY
CHARLES K. WILBER 
OF PARIS

Kroc lnlltitute Faculty Fellow; Profe..or, 
Economic• Department 
"CORNER SOLUTIONS, SOCIAL TRAPS AND PEACE" 
Ill 
ALUMNI
(Paper available upon requellt.) 
SENIOR
4:00p.m. Conference Room 103 The Hesburgh Center 
~!:CLUB 
THURSDA~JANUARY30 
KURT MILLS 
Graduate lltudent in the Government and 
STUDENT .MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
International Studiee Department; former peace lltudiee lltudent, Kroc lnlltitute, MA '90 
&

"HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION: A LEGAL, 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 
POLITICAL, AND MORAL 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE.
ANALYSIS" 
12:15 p.m. Conference Room 103 
PICK THEM OP AT THE 
The Hesburgh Center 
LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
INSTITUTE FOR 

FEBRUARY 21, 1992
INTERNATIONAL

111111~~~~ 0;~~~:: 
page 18 
SMC basketball beats rival Hope 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
"Run, gun and let's have fun!" 
These are the new theme 
words that inspired a frus­
trated Saint Mary's basketball 
team, 4-7, to a home victory 
over conference rival Hope Col­
lege (3 -12). 80-62 on Saturday. 
"Nothing went our way. It's 
just one of those days," ex­
plained Hope coach Sue Wise. 
"We were a little sloppy. We did 
what we wanted to do, we just 
didn't get the breaks." 
"Our defense was tougher. 
We stayed intense. This is what 
we hadn't been doing," said 
Belles coach Don Cromer. "It 
was a good victory for the 
girls." 
This game was a big game 
for the Belles. The Flying Dutch 
has beaten the Belles in their 
last two matchups. In that first 
matchup, Hope, escaping the 
Belles by one point, went on to 
claim the Division III national 
title. 
"It was big revenge," ex­
plained lead scorer Catherine 
Restovich, forward. "It felt good 
to just beat Hope. Even though 
they are not as good as in other 
seasons, they are still a good 
team." 
Both teams opened the first 
half playing intensely, matching 
buckets. But early foul trouble 
forced the Flying Dutch to 
ground three starters early in 
the first half. The Belles took 
advantage of the foul situation 
and opened up a nine point 
lead with 5:36 remaining in the 
half. Hope cut the lead back 
down to four at halftime, 39-35. 
Second half action opened 
with Belles' senior forward 
Janet Libbing sinking the first 
bucket. The Belles expanded 
their lead, executing a 16-4 run 
on the Flying Dutch. Saint 
Mary's took their lead to 78-54 
with 3:24 left to play. The 
Belles' held on to beat Hope. 
"We were getting so sick of writing "L's" on our schedules, and calling home to our par­ents saying that we lost. Noth­ing was going to stop us," Restovich said after the game. 
"We played more relaxed and had confidence in our­selves. We had fun!", added center Julie Snyder. 
Saturday's matchup was also an emotional game for sophomore transfer Liz Ver­nesco. In her freshman year, Vernesco was a member of the Flying Dutch. 
"It was exciting and neat to see everyone again. Only this time they were the opponents," explained Vernesco. Vernesco scored seven points, and added four rebounds, one assist and one block to the Saint Mary's winning efforts. 
"It's nice to see her play so well," said Vernesco's former coach Wise. " It was definitely their gain and our loss. It's great to see her happy." 
Restovich led all scorers for the third game in a row. Restovich tallied 29 points, in­cluding one three point field goal, added three assists, three steals and five rebounds. Lib­bing added another 12 points, including one from the three point field, two assists, six steals and led all rebounds with 
11. Snyder and junior center pulled down eight rebounds each. 
The Belles will have a few days rest before hosting North­eastern Illinois University Wednesday 7:00 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facilities. Cromer is expecting a tough game against the Division II team. 
The Observer Monday, January 27, 1992 


ND women lose to Wildcat swimmers 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 

Sports Writer 
In a meet that has been un­derstandably overshadowed, the Notre Dame women's swim team lost 183-117 to a tough Northwestern team at Norris Aquatics Center on Thursday night. The meet will most likely be the final meet of the season for the women's team as a whole. With the majority of the swimmers suffering from InJUries sustained in the bus crash, the team's season is in jeopardy. "The future of the women's team is very uncertain," said women's team captain Shana Stephens. "The men's team will continue training and compet­ing as soon as possible." Currently, the NCAA and the University are discussing the options available to the swim­mers in light of the unusual cir­cumstances, but for now it is up to those swimmers whose injuries are minor enough to allow continued competition. "On an individual basis, the swimmers must decide whether they are physically and emo­
tionally able to compete," said Stephens. If Thursday's meet was the last of the year, it certainly was a team effort. Junior All-American Tanya Williams was the only double winner for the Irish with victo­ries in the 100-yard backstroke and the 200 backstroke. Becky Wood, along with freshman Jennifer Dahl, posted the only other individual wins for Notre Dame. Wood won the 100 breaststroke with a time of 
1:06.23 and Dahl won the 500 freestyle with a time of 5:05.64. In the first event, the medley relay, the Irish team of fresh­man Cara Garvey, Wood, Williams, and freshman Meghan Beeler took second place behind the Wildcats relay team. Northwestern won the 1000 freestyle, but the Irish filled the rest of the places. Dahl finished second, junior Susan Bohdan third, freshman Colleen Hipp fifth, and senior Kathleen McKinney sixth. In the 200 freestyle, freshman 
see SWIM page 16 

Use it to alteryourgrades. 

You just got aC+ in Political Theory and aB-in Medical Ethics. Sounds like you could use alittle help ­from an Apple® Macintosh® computer. 
AMacintosh can help you with your homework. Help you with your term papers. Help you with your research projects. And help you organize your study time and think more clearly. And at last count Macintosh could run thousands of software programs to help you with everything from linguistics to law. Physics to philosophy. Medicine to Medieval history. 
The Notre Dame Computer Store has the perfect 

Apple Computer,Inc. 

way to help make this semester a little easier. We have Apple Macintosh Classic® II computers in stock­waiting for you. You can take one home the same day you purchase it. And if you purchase an Apple StyleWriter® printer with your Macintosh Classic II you can save abundle. Buy both the computer and the printer before Tuesday,January 28 and save an additional $150. 
The point being, when you bring aMacintosh home with you, there's agood chance you'll be bringing home something else. Better grades. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
Office of University Computing Computing Center/Math Building 
Phone: 239-7477 Hours: Mon.-Fri., 9:00 am -5:00 pm 
©1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and StyleWriter are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. 
Monday, January 27, 1992 The Observer page 19 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WAITERSON SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 




THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
CROSSWORD 
50 Grecian -18 Mr. Porter

ACROSS 
51 Classroom need 19 "Out, damned-... " French head 55 Stupid 24 Part of some 
5 Basketball move 59 Party meeting of newscasts 10 Raise -sorts (2 wds.) 25 Diamond bungle 14 October's birth­61 Footnote abbrevi-26 Lying flat 
stone ation 27 Omit in pronun­15 One-celled animal 62 Miss Comaneci ciation 16 '50s song, e.g. 63 Neon -28 VP in '53 
(var.) 64 Yield 29 Tarnish, as a 17 Republican election 65 Inexperienced reputation 
nightmare (2 wds.) 66 Oo in, as a dragon 30 Competing 20 Tyrants 31 Actress Verdugo 21 Tennis tournament DOWN 32 The -Sisters 
favorite (2 wds.) 37 "-Story" 22 Mr. Whitney 1 Mary-Lincoln 39 Of ancient W. Italy 23 Common tattoo word 2 Fencing sword 45 Casino words 24 House of -3 Scottish caps 46 Adventurous 33 Be human 4 Romeo or Juliet, 47 Assam silkworm 34 Inter -(Lat.) e.g. 48 Invalidates 35 Mr. Waggoner 5 Party supporter 51 The Odyssey, for 36 Eat-6 "-corny as ... " one Saint Mary's Notre Dame 
... 

38 Undeliverable mail 7 Certain doc 52 Ceremonial garment or water sprite 8 Newspaper section, 53 Put -on 40 Chicken -for short (cover up) 
Baked Ham Meatloaf
41 First-rate 9 Washington seaport 54 Dermatological mark 
Baby Beef Liver/Onions 
42 Word of warning 10 Dairy product 55 "I cannot tell Chicken Teriyaki 43 Compass point (2 wds.) " Deli Bar Pasta Primavera 44 Former Time Magazine 11 Opposite of 56 Suffix for poet Vegetarian Cheese Lasagna 
"Man of the Year" aweather 57 Legendary Roman (2 wds.) 12 -fixe king 49 To be announced: 13 The Big Apple's 58 Catch sight of abbr. finest (abbr.) 60 Suffix for block 


Sports 
page 20 Monday, January 27, 1992 
Mirer ends speculation 
Quarterback to stay for senior year 
By MIKE SCRUDATO good in the NFL, and by staying Sports Writer another year I will get better." Mirer also mentioned the fact that he did not create this sce­
Rick Mirer put a lot of minds nario, but it was created for at ease on Friday when he him. ended the speculation about his "I never imagined that leavingfuture by announcing that he early would be an option." he would remain at Notre Dame added. ''I've never been for his senior year. anything but happy and 
"There were a lot of things satisfied with Coach Holtz and that went into my decision," our program here at Notre Mirer said. "The main thing Dame." 
was that I wanted to be happy, Holtz was pleased with and I can see myself happy here Mirer's decision. for another year. South Bend is "We are absolutely delighted home to me, and I don't want to with Rick's decision. It helps his leave yet. future and ours," Holtz com­
, "I have some goals that mented. "We're looking forward 
haven't been reached yet. I to the upcoming season." want to win a national Though some comparedchampionship; I feel empty that Mirer's decision to the one I haven't done that. Also, I want Raghib "Rocket" Ismail had to 
to leave Notre Dame with a make last season, the Irish diploma." quarterback disagreed.
Mirer said that he did look into the possibility of leaving "Hocket did the right thing by early, but never came really leaving because he could not close to doing so. He also stated have done better," Mirer said. that he consulted with a lot of "His was a totally diiTerent sit­people while weighing his uation; if I had had his type of options, including Stanford success, maybe things would coach, Bill Walsh; Dallas Cow­have been different. boys' quarterback Troy Aikman "I think I could play in the and most importantly, his fam­NFL. but I know we are going to ily. have a good team next year, 
Despite the annual rumors and my goal is a national 
about an NFL salary cap, Mirer championship." 
said that money is not the most Now that he has made his de­
important thing. cision, Mirer said he will never 
"In a year, the money will still regret it. 
be there, and I will have my "I am not going to look back. diploma, which is as good as if Whatever happens is the way not better than the money," things were supposed to hap­Mirer commented. "I want to be pen." 
By JENNIFER MARTEN that includes friends and family, had called each other through a When something like this another service in the infirmarv 
Sports Writer but most importantly each phone tree, divided up, and happens, it is sometimes hard for those swimmers who could other. Packs of swimmers, both went to all the hospitals. When I to see any bright sides, but a not leave. In addition, about male and female, can be seen had been treated, there were bright side has emerged quickly half the men's team travelled to 
After the tragedy that rocked around campus wearing their five to ten guys already there in the wake of the accident. In the services for freshman the Notre Dame campus and blue and gold swimming and that just made the biggest the past, the swim teams have Colleen Hipp in St. Louis on shocked the rest of the world, parkas. difference in the world." appeared as almost two distinct Sunday along with head coach the Notre Dame women's swim The men's team has been Their caring and support did teams. It is clear from the Tim Welsh and assistant coach team is trying to deal with especially supportive of the not end after Thursday night. events of this weekend that this Randy Julian. overwhelming emotional and women. "They (the men's team) have will never be the case again. "Their support has been ev­physical pain that remains with "The guys' team has been so done our thinking for us," said A united swim team mourned erything for the team. It has them. supportive," said freshman women's co-captain Shana the loss of their teammates at been a unifying factor and given
Helping the swimmers is an diver Diane Walton. "After they Stephens. "They have helped us the memorial mass on Friday us the focus to see that we are a immense network of support heard about the accident, they with everything." afternoon. Both teams attended whole team," said Stephens. 
Irish hope to find winning ways vs. Dayton
'­
By RENE FERRAN 
the slack. Associate Sports Editor Freshman Chip Hare (9.5 ppg, 
6.1 rpg), a 6-foot-1 0 center who was Ohio's Player of the Year Coming off a solid effort last season, has also come on against 12th-ranked Missouri lately, (l.veraging over 10 points last Friday, Notre Dame never­over the past eight games. theless still searches for its first Sophomores Derrick Dukes (6.5 home win tonight at 7:30 p.m. ppg, 3.6 assists) and John against the Dayton Flyers. Richter (5.9 ppg) round out the 
The Irish (5-8) led by two, 33-Flyers' starting lineup. 
31. at halftime and were tied at Dayton utilizes the three-point 61 late in the game before the Alex Robertson line effectively, shooting at a 33 Tigers took control down the percent clip (115-for-334) for stretch. Missouri hit six free Tigers, no other member of the the season. Richter (42 percent) 
throws in the last 33 seconds to Irish bench averages over two and Robertson (37 percent) are secure the victory, only widen­points per game. among the MCC leaders in ing an already huge advantage "Jon has gotten a lot better as 
three-point percentage. 
the season has progressed,"

at the line. ''I'm impressed with what The Tigers shot 22-of-28 from praised MacLeod, "and Lamarr Dayton has done since the loss the charity stripe for the game, (Justice) gave us a good effort of its best player," said 
against Missouri. But we need

while Notre Dame made just 5-MacLeod. "They'll create prob­
coach better bench play, because our

of-14. Irish John lems for us with their full-court 
MacLeod hopes that his team starters need a little bit of sup­press and their three-point can turn that statistic around port." shooting, so we'll have to be 
against the Flyers. The Dayton bench also has 
well-prepared."
been tested this season with the 

"We need to be more con­Tonight's game will be the 
loss of its top player, All-MCC

scious of driving to the basket first varsity athletic event since 
and getting the ball inside," guard Chip Jones. Jones led the 
Friday's bus accident. MacLeod 
Flyers (9-8) in scoring in their

said MacLeod. "We also have to believes his team will be able to 
first five games, averaging 23.6 

make our free throws." put the tragedy in perspective. Another important factor for ppg during that stretch. "It was tough blow for every­Notre Dame tonight will be its But in his absence, they have body-the players, the whole 
bench play. Other than sopho­gone 7-5, with 6-foot-8 Makor 
campus," said the Irish coach, more Jon Ross (4.5 ppg, 2. 7 Shayok (12.98 ppg, 6.9 rpg) and "but I know our guys will come Freshman Lamarr Justice heads down court in last Thursday's rpg), who had 10 points and 6-foot-4 junior Alex Robertson basketball game against Missouri. The Irish will look to Justice to have 
four rebounds against the (10.9 ppg, 3.5 steals) picking up see HOOPS page 16 a solid game off the bench against Dayton. 









