
VOL. XXIV NO. 134 WEDNESDAY , APRIL 22, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Buchanan campaigns at ND 
By MONICA YANT Editor-in-Chief 
Continuing his quest for the Republican presidential nomi­nation, Pat Buchanan told a crowd at Notre Dame Tuesday that he will stay in the race through the final primaries, if only to drive home a message to George Bush that the days of one-party politics must end. 
The primaries have been a vehicle for Buchanan and the American public to nudge Bush back into Republican territory. Although he has lost 19 con­secutive contests and is netting only one-third of his party's votes, Buchanan said his viabil­ity in the primaries shows Bush "what we stand for as a party, where we are going as a na­tion." 
His appearance at the Notre Dame Law School came at the request of second-year law stu­dent Les Fortney, chairman of Notre Dame Students for Pat Buchanan. The event was co­sponsored by the Federalist Society and the College Republicans. 
While organizers deemed the appearance "a major policy ad­dress," audience members were encouraged to display cam­paign posters, buttons and in­formation flyers when the can­didate arrived. Interest out­numbered the courtroom's ca­pacity, and a first-floor class­room was equipped with a closed-circuit television for latecomers to watch the ad­dress. 
an angry protest." their kids and their families ...
Still, many were turned away 
He argued that the "insider they don't understand what is
from even the overflow seating 
politics" practiced by the Bush happening to them."
and complained of the poor lo­administration is nothing like What is happening, he said, is gistical planning for Buchanan's 
what the founding fathers had government expansion at thevisit. 
in mind for America, and even expense of the electorate.
A graduate of Georgetown 
more frustrating for average Runaway spending, excessive
University and Columbia School 
Americans. regulation and a failure to ad­
of Journalism, Buchanan 
"What you have now is anger dress the consequences of each stressed that his candidacy is a 
and alienation. The middle­action are what Buc.hanan saysstrong reaction against Bush's 
class, middle-American, tax­
policies. "Pat Buchanan's can­see CAMPAIGN/ page 8 
paying people who simply raise
didacy represents a protest ­
Buchanan challenges Bush now; exposure may help in 1996 race 
By PAUL PEARSON GOP hopefuls for 1996," said barriers, cuts in federal tax Associate News Editor Time magazine reporter rates on investments and a Michael Duffy. freeze on federal spending. Although 53-year-old More than anything else, 
Republican candidate Patrick Buchanan is running as an out­however, Buchanan is looking Buchanan addressed a crowd of sider, he was born and raised in for the Republicans to abandon students Tuesday during a visit Washington, D.C., graduated Bush, whom he accuses of be­to Notre Dame, the latest stop from Georgetown University traying Reagan's conservative in his campaign for the and was top aide to Presidents platform. He has called Bush's presidency. Richard· Nixon and Ronald decision to break his no-new­
Buchanan is hoping to re­Reagan. tax pledge "the Yalta of the verse his fortunes against Buchanan is also known as Republican Party" and de­President Bush in Indiana's May co-host of Cable News scribed Bush's top advisers as 5 primary. He has yet to win Network's "Crossfire" and as a the "geisha girls of the new any of the 19 primaries and syndicated columnist with a world order." caucuses this year. passion for speaking his mind. An outspoken spokesman for 
He garnered 37 percent of the Buchanan's campaign re­right-wing Republicans, 
vote in a strong second-place volves around the theme of Buchanan drew heavy criticism 
finish in the New Hampshire putting "America First." for describing Adolf Hitler as 
primary, notching what was "For 50 years," he said, "we "an individual of great 
viewed as a major victory for have liberated, defended and courage," for calling AIDS 
the Republican columnist. aided nations all over the "nature's retribution" for ho­
Now, however, some experts world. IBut now we must begin mosexuality and for accusing believe that Buchanan is to look out for the forgotten Israel of starting a war in the preparing for the next election Americans right here in the Middle East. in four years. "I give Buchanan United States." But those who have dealt this much: He has propelled Buchanan calls for tougher with him in forums such as himself... into the first tier of responses to Japanese trade see BUCHANAN! page 6 

Faculty, administration negotiating agreement 
By DAVID KINNEY dence at a meeting tonight, the 
News Editor executive committee will rec­ommend that the resolution be withdrawn and "will speak with 
Faculty and administrative confidence about the agree­representatives agreed to an ment." April 15 settlement that will Paul Conway, chair of the help resolve faculty concerns Faculty Senate, said it is un­
likely that the Senate will vote 
• agreement text/ page 7 on the measure. 
He said that the no-confi­dence resolution was an impe­about their participation in the tus for the meetings. Malloy,
academic governance of the 
however, said that was not de­University. 
terminative of the final result. 
University President Father "Certain values were at stakeEdward Malloy, Provost 
that need to be preserved in
Timothy O'Meara and members any structural change," he said. 
of the executive committee of "We got to a point where wethe Faculty Senate met several could talk about these things." 
times after an April 7 Senate 
The issue centered on whatmeeting, at which O'Meara kind of faculty participation
spoke to the faculty, answered 
would be suitable to this
questions and, listened to the University, he said. "I have al­opinions of faculty members on ways believed in a collective,the issue. 
consultative style of adminis­The Senate was to consider a tration," he said. 
resolution calling for a motion Among the issues that Malloyof no-confidence in the admin­cited during the previous dis­
istration, but voting was de­
cussion of faculty governancelayed until April 22 on the con­
was the preservation of the
dition that discussion would 
Catholic identity of Notre Dame. 
proceed. 
This agreement, however, will
Although the Senate will still consider the vote of no-confi-see FACUL TV I page 6 
HPC food dilemma settled 
By EMILY HAGE In other HPC business, the 
News Writer group passed a resolution at its meeting Tuesday asking that residence halls be permitted to 
University Food Services will hold SYR dances with a 55 per­cater dinner at Hall Presidents cent participation rate, instead Council (HPC) meetings begin­of the present 70 percent. HPC 
ning this fall, and members' members agreed that the per­names will be taken off dining centage required now is too hall lists on meeting nights. high, considering conflicting 
HPC's expenditures of hall athletic events, student trips, money for dinners at meetings and other campus activities. came under fire earlier this "If more residents want an year. Last week, members said SYR than not, they should be 
that although they wished to allowed to have a dance," said maintain an image as a service HPC Co-chair Jason Coyle. organization, they also found Junior Margaret Tortorella that informal conversations reminded HPC that Global Re­
during these dinners often pro­lief is trying to raise $14,000 duced new ideas. 
see HPC/ page 6 


The Observer/ R. Belanger 

Upside down spider man 
Jeff Nold exhibits his talent for "The Spider Web," an inflatable velcro wall that students jump onto while wearing a velcro suit. "The Spider Web" was set up on South Quad yesterday as part of the first day events of An Tostal. 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992
page 2 The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Catholicity is everyone's responsibility 
Notre Dame has undergone many major changes in the past 25 years. In 1967, the Holy Cross Fathers of the Indiana Province turned over control of the University to a predominantly lay board of trustees and in 1972, the 

DAVID first women were admitted KINNEY as full-time undergraduates. News Editor Perhaps the most------­significant change, though, was the changing of the guard in 1987 when Father Theodore llesburgh yielded the presidency to Father Edward Malloy. llesburgh is recognized as one of the most powerful leaders in American higher educa­tion. Throughout a 35-year tenure, his charisma and leadership ability, coupled with a dear mission to protect the Catholic identity of Notre Dame, lifted the University to a status above all Catholic institutions in the nation. With a dictatorial flair, he quelled all threats -or perceived threats-to the University. Indeed, Hesburgh's shoes were difficult to fill. Malloy's focus seems to be on more of a collaborative, group structure, as he attempts to gain input from many in the community. He has placed great faith in the numerous task forces that he has developed to gather the perspective of a cross-section of the University to address specific issues. The desire for greater input has had some negative implications. Hand-in-hand with increased participation from students and faculty goes heightened expectations for short­term change and improvement, as most individual's stay at the University is brief. Such circumstances have become evident in recent years with calls for increased cultural diversity and for more faculty input in the governance of the University. Malloy has often said that important values are always at stake, values that are particular and unique to the University. "Amidst all these changes, Notre Dame has remained faithful to its fundamental mission to be a Catholic university," Malloy said last year. "Now we are again faced with the challenge to change and are called to a renewed commitment to do the right thing for the proper reason." But are the president and Notre Dame's Holy Cross Fathers the only individuals able to protect this identity? Today's students, faculty and administrators are also charged with this duty, and all members of the University community must have a part in this task. He emphasized that the University's history is marked by careful building and maintenance of its Catholic identity. Yet he does not specify what exactly the protection of this nature entails, nor how certain changes could threaten it. Change may not have been necessary or even appropriate in past years. but circumstances are no longer the same. While Notre Dame's Catholicity is certainly 
an aspect that makes it unique, Malloy fails to realize that the Catholic nature of the University must adapt with the changing times if that identity is to continue to be relevant. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Forecast for noon. Wednesday, April22 
FORECAST:



WEATHER REPORT 

Prsssur9 


Washington, D.C. 62 40
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL States cannot tax retirement a 
•WASHINGT N -States may not tax military retire­ment pay while exempting the pensions of their own retired state and local government workers, a unanimous Supreme Court ruled Tuesday. The justices struck down a Kansas income tax provision that collected some $91 million from about 14,000 military retirees in the state. The ruling presumably will force the state to refund the money. There are numerous pending lawsuits on the issue. About 1.2 million retirees nationwide receive some $20 billion in pension benefits. 
En~ineers pump water from Loop
•c ICAGO-Engineers pumped 20,000 gallons of water a minute from the flooded tunnels underneath Chicago's Loop Tuesday and said they saw no immediate evidence of structural damage under the business district. The Army Corps of Engineers quadrupled the rate of pumping out the more than 200 million gallons of water that deluged the 50-mile underground network when a tunnel underneath the Chicago River caved in April 13. The Corps, which took over the huge draining project from the city on Saturday, increased the pump rate from about 5,000 gallons per minute on Monday. Engineers had initially feared that faster work could collapse the turn­of-the-century passages and cause old buildings to settle. 

Storms. tornadoes batter the South 
•Thunderstorms and tornadoes battered parts of the South on Monday, and rain also extended northward across the Plains, with snow blowing across the Dakotas. Southwestern Mississippi was hit hardest, with tornadoes touching down in seven places in Pike County, said civil 

OF INTEREST 
Mostly cloudy and cooler today with highs in the lower 50s. Cloudy and warmer Wednes­day. Highs in the upper 50s. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Albuquerque  63  37  
Atlanta  71  43  
Austin  75  63  
Barcelona  57  45  
Baton Rouge  79  48  
Bismarci<  70  27  
Boise  66  40  
Boston  40  19  
Cleveland  61  36  
Coiumbia,S.C.  73  34  
Columbus  61  28  
Denver  65  36  
Des Moines  77  39  
Harrisburg  51  33  
Helena  60  29  
Helsinki  37  30  
Honolulu  84  68  
Indianapolis  66  29  
Lincoln  8 1  39  
Madison  61  29  
Mpls·St. Paul  58  35  
Nashville  68  31  
Sacramento  66  53  
Salt Lake City  63  44  
South Bend  68  42  
Tallahassee  64  54  
Topeka  82  46  


defense director Madelyn Dick. At least four people were injured. Dick said at least seven homes were destroyed and 16 more damaged heavily. Four businesses were destroyed, power and telephone lines were down, and fallen trees had crushed cars, she said. Thunderstorms also developed over southeastern Louisiana and western Alabama as a cold front crossed the lower Mississippi Valley. 
Man oleads guilty to child molesting 
•GRAY, Maine -A 75-year-old man described as a "pillar of the community" pleaded guilty this month to two counts of child sexual abuse for molesting a boy in 1987. Warren Cole helped found a well-known restaurant that employed hundreds of teenagers over the years. He agreed to tell prosecutors his victims' names. A plea agreement calls for Cole to establish a $100,000 trust fund to pay for counseling for his victims. Cole, who remains free on $100,000 bail, faces a maximum sentence of 20 years imprisonment on each charge. 


CAMPUS 

Architecture major wins design prize 
•NOTRE DAME -Timothy Slattery, a fifth year senior major in the University of Notre Dame's School of Architecture won first prize for his design thesis at an exhibition sponsored by the Chicago Athenaeum and the Chicago Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. 
Competing against students from leading architecture and design schools in Illinois, Indiana and Wisconsin, Slattery won for his design of a commercial center for a suburban community in New York. Notre Dame students Dave Bagnoli, Paul DeLave and John Montgomery also had projects at the exhibition. 
•An Tostal Air Ball is open for free play today. Bring a first job including contact networks, part-time or 
team of 9 people or come for a pick-up game. The Air temporary jobs, want ads, employment agencies, alumni Obstacle course has dorm play today. The events take services. place on the Fieldhouse mall. 
•A graduating male with a strong Christian com­
•A maximizing your job search presentation will be mitment and an interest in developing countries is needed held in the Foster Room of LaFortune from 6:30 to 7:30 to volunteer in Kenya for two years. Contact Mary Ann 
p.m. Consider all resources and strategies to achieve that Roemer at the Center for Social Concerns at 239-5293 or Fr. Tom McDermott at Campus Ministry. 
MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 
In 1509: Henry VIII ascended the throne of England following the death of his father, Henry VII. 

• 
In 1864: Congress authorized the use of the phrase "In God We Trust" on U.S. coins. 

• 
In 1898: The first shot of the Spanish-American War rang out when the USS Nashville captured a Spanish merchant ship off Key West. 

• 
In 1970: Millions of Americans concerned about the environment observed the first "Earth Day." 

• 
In 1987: Joe Hunt, leader of a social and investment group called the "Billionaire Boys Club," was convicted by a jury in Santa Monica, Calif., of murdering Ron Levin, a con man whose body has never been found. 



SAN QUENTIN ,Calif. (AP)­Double murderer Robert Alton Harris died in the gas chamber at dawn yesterday in California's first execution in 25 years, after a dramatic last­minute stay was overturned. 
The Supreme Court over­turned that stay and three others filed through the night by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. In an extraordinary move, frustrated justices ended the judicial duel by ordering the appeals court not to issue any more stays without permission. 
The fourth stay was issued after Harris already was strapped to the death seat. After the Supreme Court ruling, Harris, 39, was hastily returned to the gas chamber looking far more somber than earlier. But he winked and nodded at one guard and mouthed "all right." 
The Observer/J. Novak The gas was introduced at Making beautiful music about 6:05 a.m., and shortly afterward Harris' head jerked
on the fieldhouse mall. Bands are performing each day this week • 
from left to right before falling 
page 3 

Convict Harris killed in California gas chamber 

Club Column 
APRIL 22, 1992 

ATTENTION All CLUBS: The CCC and the student body Treasurer's office would like to infonn all clubs that there is a safe which all clubs should use for their monies. The Native American Organization lost almost $2,250 because they did not use this resource. Don'tlet this happen to your club. 
A 3-POINT AND HOTSHOT CONTEST will be sponsored by the Mexico Summer Service Group. It is on the Bookstore Courts Wednesday at 3 p.m. Bring $1. 
All NEW CLUB PRESIDENTS: All the club bucJseting for 1992-93 is complete. Everyone will be sent a letter indicating next year's allocations. Clubs will also be infonned about next year's concession stands. If you have any questions, please call the Club Council at 283-2086 or stop by the office at 206 Lafortune. 
Any club wishing to place an entry in the Club Column must do so by 4 
p.m. Thursday of each week. All entries appear in the following Monday's edition of The Observer. Please drop off entries to the Club Coordination Council office in 206 Lafortune. 
slowly to his chest. He ap-
Diplomat: democracy brings respect for Chileans' rights 
By LYNN O'DONNELL News Writer 
Human rights cannot be taken for granted, according to Ignacio Walker, general secre­tariat of the presidency in Chile. 
Walker addressed Chile's re­cent transition to democracy and its human rights record in a lecture Tuesday at ND, divid­ing his discussion into three parts; Chile's political and so­cial situation before the military coup of 197 3, its aftermath, and the current challenge faced by its leaders. 

SUMMERTIME! 

SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY WILL OFFER 
SUMMER STORAGE 
FOR YOUR WINTER ITEMS!! 
STORAGE POLICY: 
• 
STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 13, 1992, WITH DROP OFF AT EITHER SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OR THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER LOCATED ON CAMPUS 

• 
STUDENTS MAY REQUEST THAT THE STORAGE FEE BE DEDUCI'ED FROM THEIR LAUNDRY CONTRACT, HOWEVER, YOU NEED NOT HAVE A CONTRACT TO PARTICIPATE 

• 
ALL ITEMS MUST BE LAUNDERED OR DRY CLEANED BY SAINT MICHAEL'S AT THE TIME OF STORAGE AND A $5.00 STORAGE FEEWILLBEADDEDTO YOUR INVOICE • ALL ITEMS MUST BE RETRIEVED FROM THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER (ON CAMPUS) NO LATER THAN SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 OR AN ADDITIONAL FEE OF 25% OF THE TOTAL INVOICE WILL BE IMPOSED 


SAINf MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OFFICE HRS 7:30A.M. -4:30P.M. M-F 239-7802 SAINf MICHAEL'S BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER HRS 8:00A.M. -4:30P.M. M-F 239-7565 
peared to be unconscious about 
6:12 a.m., and was pronounced dead at 6:21 a.m. 
Warden Daniel Vasquez read his final statement. "You can be a king or a street sweeper, but everybody dances with the Grim Reaper," it said. 
Harris died 14 years after' he shot to death two San Diego teenagers so he could use their car for a bank robbery. He admitted taking part in the slayings; his supporters cited his past as an abused child, among other things, as reason he should have been spared. 
With Harris' execution, California becomes the 20th states to make use of the death pemilty since the U.S. Supreme Court in 1976 allowed states to resume capital punishment. He was the 169th person put to death since the ruling. 
Sixteen other states have the death penalty but haven't used it. 
Prior to 1973 a major power struggle existed between the left and right political powers, according to Walker. 
"Socialism only contributed to the erosion of people's social and economic rights and the Christian Democratic Society was not powerful enough to re­verse these circumstances at this time," he said. 
With the coup of 1973 came the authoritarian leader General Augusto Pinochet. Walker said the military and the Catholic Church were the only major institutions to sur­vive, and said Chile faced a choice between "dictatorship and democracy." 
Walker said he feels human rights call for "moral vindica­tion and political awareness. Also, to emphasize convergence over divergence." 
The first democratic presi­dent of Chile, according to Walker, is implementing policy to challenge human rights abuse. Currently, Walker said, political prisoners have been released, an office was created for political exiles, and twelve protective laws have been ap­proved. 
"Events remind us that hu­man rights cannot be taken for granted. The people of Latin America will not be black­mailed," Walker said. "Chile needs to assume responsibility and demonstrate democracy working. The best dictatorship can only aspire to the worst democracy. Most importantly, I believe Chile's real enemies are located internally." 
Chile in now a democratic country, said Walker, but Pinochet is still powerful. Therefore, "Chile's situation is still precarious," he said. 
r 
• 

SU1?t?lt&~ S7~i!Ut;& 
CALL FOR RESERVATION MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSE 
683-1959 (AFTER 5 -272-8656) 

Happpy Belated 19th Birthday 

"Keep Hitting Those Books' 
Love, 
Dad, Mom, and Kip 

! ! ! ! • ! ! ! ! • ! ! ! ! .-.-.--.--.--.-.-.-.-.-. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
1 
I 
j 


Wednesday, April 22, 1992 The Observer 
page 5 

Pro-life demonstrators gather in Buffalo, NV 
BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP)­Hundreds of demonstrators massed in a steady rain yester­day to begin what they say will be a two-to-four-week siege aimed at shutting the city's abortion clinics. The clinics said they would still open. 
"We're going to rescue chil­dren with our bodies," Operation Rescue leader Keith Tucci said as about 200 abor­tion opponents gathered on Main Street in front of one of four clinics he said his group besieged. 
Police kept a similar number of pro-choice demonstrators on the opposite sides of the street, which was closed for three blocks by the protest. The two sides traded insults, but chanted their slogans peace­fully. 
At all four clinics, officials said at mid-morning that they were seeing patients. 
Outside a clinic on High Street, where more than 200 
demonstrators pro and con gathered, an abortion foe pushed a pro-choice demon­strator and she kicked him in the groin. Police separated the pair and made no arrests. 
The abortion opponent, John Saffire, said he was demon­strating because "I've just had a baby. It's the best thing that ever happened to me. She's beautiful. These (pro-choice) people have earrings in their noses." 
At another clinic, about 400 anti-abortion activists carried signs reading, "Abortion has two victims, one dead, one wounded." About 60 pro-life activists chanted, "Pro-life, your name's a lie, you don't care if women die." 
Tucci said Operation Rescue required its participants to sign a pledge of non-violence. But he said some protesters might defy a court order prohibiting them from blocking access to the clinics. 



HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO OUR 2 FAVORITE EASTER BUNNIES 

TV viewers object to graphic ads 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -About 160 viewers called an Indianapolis television station Monday after it broadcast a campaign ads depicting graphic, close-up shots of dead human fetuses, a station execu­tive said. 
About 100 of those calls were against the ads purchased by 9th District congressional can­didate Michael Bailey. The remaining 60 supported their continued broadcast, said Ted Linn, executive news producer at WISH-TV. 
Bailey is in a two-man race for the Republican nomination in the May 5 primary. His GOP opponent also opposes abortion, under most circumstances. They are vying for the chance to challenge Rep. Lee Hamilton in November. 
The ad was broadcast three times Monday, twice in the early morning and shortly after 5 p.m., where it was viewed by the largest audience. 
The ads show close-up views of fetuses Bailey claims were taken from a trash bin behind an abortion clinic. Bailey, 35, is an advertising promoter for business and religious ventures. 
The ad is scheduled to run 14 times this week on WISH-TV during various news programs Monday through Saturday. 
WISH-TV will air disclaimers before and after the 30-second ad, warning in a printed and oral statement, "Some viewers may find the material objec­tionable, particularly to chil­dren." 
Linn said that calls were flooding the station's switch­board "fast and furious" when the switchboard closed at 5:30 p.m. 
Paul Karpowicz, president and general manager of WISH­TV, said federal election laws require the station to air the ads. 
Television stations in Louisville, Ky., also are carrying the commercial. The 9th District covers some 20 counties in southeast Indiana, including many along the Ohio River. 


Perennial Bestsellers At Little Professor 
Choose fi-om our wide selection of books on spring planting. gardening. and landscaping. 
Receive a free seed packet with every gardening book purchase of $5 or more.* 
•wltilt· s"l'l'hl fusf."t. 
Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood South Bend • 277-4488 • Mon. -Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sun.: 10:00-5:00 
The Observer 
page 6 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
have no negative impact on 
that mission, he said. 
"The wider the cross-section 
that we encourage to partici­
pate in discussion on the 
Catholic mission, the more it 
will be incorporated into our 
community," he said. 
O'Meara agreed. "The faculty have got to share in the re­sponsibility. They've got to have a stake in this; it can't just be donn by administrators." 

The agreement called for the Faculty Senate to study the faculty's rolf~ in establishing and maintaining this Catholic identity and recommended that it form a standing committee to address the issue. 
Malloy said that it is a good sign that the futun~ relationship between the faculty and the administration will be positive and productive. 
"We're making a step for­ward," he said. "It is important that all sides feel good about the rnsult -that progrnss has been made." 
Conway also said he was op­
timistic about the results. 
"There was a good spirit of co­
operation between both sides." 
The agreement was hailed by 
those involved as among the 
most historically significant 
event in University history since 
the Holy Cross Fathers of the 
Indiana Province turned over 
control to a predominantly lay 
board of trustees. 
Among the changes is the re­structuring of the Academic Council to allow for the estab­lishment of standing commit­tees, an increase in the number of meetings and the publication of the agenda in advance of the meeting. 
These changes will permit more thought and discussion on an issue before it is presented on the floor and voted on by the Council, according to O'Meara. 
Both the Faculty Senate and thn Academic Council approved a similar measure in December 1991, but the proposal was ve­t<wd by Malloy. 
The reforms agreed upon do not include a key provision of the Senate's original proposal: 
increasing the number of 
elected faculty and students on 
the Council, thereby altering the 
proportion of representatives. 
Conway said that changed 

proportion may not be neces­
sary. "Before, we often felt that 
the administration voted as a 
bloc," he said. "If we're both 
working together toward the 
same goal, we won't need more 
faculty members." 
A second major change is an agreement to a "fundamental commitment to openness on the issue of University finances. Conway said that certain con­sultative bodies, including the Academic Council, will have ac­cess to information about the financial situation of the University on a need-to-know basis. 
"Faculty, when they get in­volved in decision-making, will know not only what is actually happening but secondly, they will know the boundaries -the limitations caused by the bud­get," said O'Meara. 
Another component of the agreement is the expansion of the Provost's Advisory Committee to include five fac-
Buchanan 
continued from page 1 
"Crossfire," "The Capital Gang," and "The McLaughlin Group" do not believe this indi­cated that Buchanan is a bigot. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
for 14,000 trees to restore a depleted forest area in Florida to its original state. Students 
"Unlike his rival George Bush, he's got principles'' columnist Michael Kinsley said. "Bush vs. Buchanan is a tempting illus­tration of the maxim that in some ways the wrong principles are better than no principles at all." 
Buchanan has vowed to stay 
will receive a sticker for every dollar they contribute between Earth Day, April 22, and April 25. 
HPC is sponsoring a "Notre Dame for the Homeless Day" from 6 to 10 p.m. Saturday. A band will play on the Field­

If~·re going to drinkand drive at least let the rest of us know 
Your Paper
Deserves 
Our Paper. 
When you've worked night and day on something as 
important as your thesis, you want 1t to look as smart as it 
sounds. From high quality paper to impressive binding, 
Kinko's has everything you need -at aprice guaranteed 
to make the grade with your budget. When it comes to 
making agreat impression, your paper definitely deserves 
the paper at Kinko's.

r--15%-0ff-­
AII Thesis Work 
Bring this coupon to any 
partiCipating Kinko's and receive a 
15% discount on all thesis copies 

and bindings. Discount not good the COpy Center 
1n comb~nat1on With any other 

offers or discounts. One coupon We Can Help You Make 
per customer, please. A Great Impression 
Open 24 Hours A Day Seven Days A Week 
18187 State Rd. 23 • 271-0398 
V I<Jnko's os proud to offer recycled paper 
in the race until the June 2 California primary. By doing this, he may be able to build enough support for another run in 1996. 
Time and Newsweek magazines contributed to this article. 
house Mall, and money made at soda and ice cream booths will go to the homeless. 
Cavanaugh Hall is sponsoring a barbecue and volleyball tour­nament on North Quad from 12 to 6 p.m. Saturday. 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 
ulty members: one senior fac­ulty member elected by each college and the Law school. 
Among the duties of the committee are promotion and tenure reviews, according to O'Meara. Because "the whole future of the faculty is deter­mined by who we promote and give tenure to," faculty must be a part of this body, he said. 
In addition, an administra­tive-faculty working committee will be formed to review this summer avenues for further faculty participation. Conway said this body was symbolically important to the faculty repre­sentatives because it was some­thing they had attempted to form for several years. 
The committee will examine the possibility of a University forum, a body Malloy had pro­posed that would evolve from the Colloquy for the Year 2000 and would examine all aspects of University life. 
The working committee would also consider the possibility of a President's Advisory Committee to enhance communication between administration and faculty, and examine how faculty might participate in strategic planning for the University. 
"There is enthusiasm on all sides to move forward on the issue," said O'Meara. "We have a strong faculty who take their commitment to Notre Dame se­riously." 

NEWJACK CITY 
Cinema at the Snlte 
TONIGHT 7:00, 9:00 
Graduate into your own car. 
Sfted4L /li!ate! '?(U. a-LU~ttted 7U~te (')~! 
8.65% :PR 
Maximum Term-60 months 
We'll even give you deferred payments unti1August15, 1992 
(please bring an offer letter from your future employer and your acceptance letter). 
To help with your relocation, we also have: MasterCard 14.92%* APR $1 0 annual fee 
* Rates subject to change without notice. Members must meet qualifications. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 

Independent of the University 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 The Observer 
page 7 

Agreement between administration, faculty outlined 
Editor's Note: The following is a statement detailing the agreement decided upon by the president, the provost and the Faculty Senate's executive committee April 15 in response to faculty concerns about their role in the governance of the University. 
University President Father Edward Malloy, Provost Timothy O'Meara and the members of the executive committee of the University's Faculty Senate have been meetin~:. individually and collectively, over a period of ten days to resolve issues arising from the Faculty's concern over their role in University gover­nance. 
After a Senate meeting on April 7, at which O'Meara spoke frankly, answered questions in an open atmosphere and listened intently to the expressions of disappointment of faculty members, a series of meetings was held which culminated in a lengthy session on April15. 
In an effort to take advantage of the opportunities for progress presented by these discussions and to enhance the standing of the University, the president, provost and the Senate executive committee agreed at this meeting on 
ATTENTION 
SOPHOMORES~ 
ORDERS MAY NOW BE 
PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS AT 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

RETROSPECTIVE OF THE ARCHITECTURE OF 
JAIME J. BELIALTA 
APRIL 21 TO MAY 17, 1992 IN THE SCHOOL OF ARCHITECTURE, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
The School of Architecture, University of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame Chapter of the AlAS invite you ito share in honoring Professor Jaime Bellalta on the occasion of his retiring 
several important matters: 
1. The Academic Council is to restructure itself, including the establishment of standing committees (but not one on budget affairs), an increase in the number of meetings each year and publication of the agenda well in advance of the meeting date. 
These reforms are to be worked out by the Council's own executive committee and presented to the full Council for appropriate action in its first meeting of the Fall 199 2 semester. 
2. 
The Provost's Advisory Committee is to be increased in number by five, with a senior faculty member to be elected by each college and the Law School for full membership and participation in this committee. 

3. 
A fundamental commit­ment to openness on the issue of University finances and the budget will be established. All consultative bodies are to have access, on a "need to know" basis, to University financial affairs in a manner similar to the way members of Colloquy 2000 have had. 


Such bodies would include the Academic Council, College Councils, Graduate Council and departments, centers and institutes. This action is taken in order that the information necessary for responsible leadership and action be available. 
Further, the provost will write an annual letter to the faculty that will spell out the state of the University's financial situation, will describe current and anticipated problems and will seek faculty response and participation in resolving such problems. 
4. The president, provost and the deans will make an explicit commitment to strengthen the College Councils and Graduate Council. These bodies will be revitalized, if necessary, and given a role in setting priorities, reviewing programs, looking at the allocation of resources, and seeking solutions to general policy questions in their 
Tuesday, April 21 
Wednesday, .April 22 7:00pm 
Sunday, Apnil 26 3:00pm 
Opening of an exhibition of his works 
Lecture by Professor Jaime Bellalta followed by refreshments 
Celebration of Mass with reception afterwards 
domain. 
5. 
The President has agreed to drop his proposal for a University Forum. 

6. 
The executive committee of the Faculty Senate will recommend to the full Senate the withdrawal of the no­confidence resolution. This had been introduced into the Senate as the result of the Faculty's concerns over their role in governance. The executive committee members will speak with confidence about this agreement and the direction the University is taking for further development. 

7. 
The president, the provost and the Senate executive committee will encourage all faculty members to participate fully in Colloquy 2000. The president will be open to maximizing faculty participation in the Colloquy so that the quality of its final report will fully reflect the academic concerns of the faculty. 

8. 
An administrative-faculty working committee will be formed to review through the summer of 1992 the avenues for further faculty participation in the life of the University, as listed below. 


This committee will consist of the president, the provost, five individuals appointed by the president and the seven faculty members who have been elected to serve on the University's Board of Trustees Academic and Faculty Affairs Committee. At least an interim report should be prepared and published by September '92. 
This committee is directed to consider especially the fol­lowing concerns: 
• 
the possibility of a University Forum; 

• 
the possibility of a President's Advisory Committee, which would not interfere with the established structures of the University; 

• 
how faculty might best participate in strategic planning for the University. 


9. The Senate will imme­diately or as soon as practical begin two studies: 
• 
a self-study of its re­sponsibilities, responsiveness and membership, including looking at the possibility of including as an ex-officio member the provost of the University; 

• 
a study of the role of the faculty in establishing and maintaining the Catholic identity/mission of the University; this study would look at all aspects of the question, involve the founding religious community and seek to become a permanent standing committee of the Senate, as well as the start of an ongoing dialogue among all members of the Notre Dame community on this vital issue. 


The president, the provost and the members of the ex­ecutive committee of the Faculty Senate agree that this outcome ranks in historic significance with the turnover by the Holy Cross Fathers, Indiana Province, of University control to a predominantly lay board of trustees in 196 7. 
It signals an openness and reflects a degree of trust that works two ways. All parties look forward to the implementation of this agreement and the fruitful dialogue and enhanced repu­tation of the University which will flow from it. 




page 8 
The Observer/A. Belanger 

My turn 
Pasquerilla East freshman Carolyn Smith emerges from an exhausting game of Air Volleyball yesterday on the fieldhouse mall. Air Volleyball is also taking place tomorrow from 12 p.m. until 10 p.m. 
'Silence' sequel rights are disputed 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Less than a month after "The Silence of the Lambs" swept the Academy Awards, the proposed sequel to the serial-murder thriller has two powerful Hollywood players tearing chunks out of each other in court. 
"The Silence of the Lambs" won the best picture Oscar and has grossed more than $180 million to date in theaters and video stores. 
Both Universal Pictures and producer Dino De Laurentiis claim negotiation rights to produce a potentially lucrative follow-up. 
Jodie Foster won the best ac­tress Oscar for her perfor­mance as FBI trainee Clarice Starling; Anthony Hopkins won the best actor Oscar for playing killer Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter. 
A sequel would be based on the next Thomas Harris novel about the Lecter character. Harris, author of "The Silence of the Lambs," also wrote "Red Dragon," which was made by De Laurentiis into the 1986 movie "Manhunter." He is ex­pected to finish the next Lecter book in 18 months. 


you with the Lear Jet. 
And the arsenal of secretaries. And the Harley Davidson. Collection. And the six figure bonus. And the catered dinners. With the stuffed prawns 6" long. Flown in from Madagascar. And the Carribbean sand between your toes. For the weekend. And the piece of mind that accompanies success. And retiring 15 years before your IRA matures. With the kids going to the finest schools. Getting an academic scholarship. That you tell the university to give to someone who needs 
it. Hey you, get to-for our LSAT course. In South Bend call 273-1866. 
The Observer 

tions of yesterday," and is leading the U.S. away from "freedom of action" and na­tional sovereignty. 
But while he does not advo­

20".4. off pizza with this ad. 
52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center llAM-lOPM (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
----~--~----~~---~--~------~-------~-~-==------~--------~---------------~-.------------------------------------------------------~~--... 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 The Observer 
Perot leading Bush, Clinton in Texas, according to survey 
DALLAS (AP)-Billionaire not destined to last until elec­Party and Bush to present a Ross Perot, a prospective inde­tion day. positive program. "I would dis­pendent presidential candidate, The Texas businessman ap­appear if they would start tak­is leading both President Bush peared to be drawing much of ing action and stop talking," and Democrat Bill Clinton in the his support from volatile, angry said Perot, who said it is in­president's adopted home state, voters looking for change, said creasingly apparent to him that 
a new Texas survey shows. Democratic pollster Natalie his backers will succeed in get­
The Texas Poll showed that if Davis. "With Perot, the support ting him on the ballot in all, or the vote were held now, Perot is from the 'I'm mad as hell and virtually all, states. would get 35 percent of the vote I'm not going to take it And if that happens, he says, to Bush's 30 percent. Clinton anymore' crowd," she said. he will follow though on his was a distant third, with 20 Perot reiterated his charge promise to them to run for percent. that Republican operatives in president. 
''I'm honored the people of Texas are engaged in a cam­As if to underscore the grow­Texas feel that way." Perot said paign of dirty tricks to discredit ing consensus that Perot will yesterday on CBS "This him and said the poll make the race, he said he re­Morning." "It gives me a great demonstrates that "the people signed Monday from two pri­sense of responsibility." have heard all that stuff' and vate clubs that exclude minori­
...; 
! 


page 9 
candidate 
to campaign in The second is to keep this · We're 

. .
1ncreas1ng their attacks 
SARAJEVO, Bosina­Herzegovina (AP)-Mortars slammed into a Sarajevo TV transmitting facility and snipers fired on a police station Tuesday as Serbians stepped up their bid for control of Bosnia's capital. 
Victims were reportedly lying in the streets, but rescuers were unable to reach them be­cause of gunfire. Serb militants have gradually taken over this city of 600,000 people, site of the 1984 Winter Olympics, shelling its Muslim­held districts . 
Bosnia-Herzegovinia is the latest Yugoslav republic to choose independence against the wishes of the largest repub­lic, Serbia. 
Serbians have overrun two Muslim dominated towns near the Serbian border since Sunday after seizing about six others in previous weeks. There is speculation Serbia will eventually seek to annex the occupied area. 
Ethnic Serbs make up about 28 percent of Sarajevo's popu­lation and want the city to be the capital of a self proclaimed Serbian republic within Bosnia. 
In Belgrade late Monday, Ralph Johnson , A U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state, met with Serbia's President Slobodan Milosevic. VVashington accuses Serbia of fomenting the violence in Bosnia. 
Fighting has escalated in the ethnically mixed republic of 4.4 million people since its inde­pendence was recognized by the United States and the European Community two weeks ago. 


, ------~ ----~~ 
Environment 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 page 10 
Earth Day means more than recycling-change in attitude just as important 
Earth Day is upon us again. What does this mean to the 
University of Notre Dame? Probably, it is one day to remind us 
to be extra careful in the way we treat our "Mother Earth." But 
is it only for one day? 

We are currently surrounded by products claiming to be 
recyclable and biodegradable. People in general believe that by 
recycling they are helping the environment. . 
It is true that recycling helps to preserve our planet. For In­
stance, if we recycled only half of the world's paper, we would 
free 20 million acres of forestland. If Americans recycled all of 
their Sunday newspapers, over 500,000 trees each week, or 
26,000,000 every year would be preserved. 
However. recycling is not the solution; it merely eases the 
problnm, temporarily. Hecycling addresses the consequences of 
our actions rather than the cause of the problem. The issue 
that threatens us all is our production of waste. 
In America. everything is right at our fingertips. Convenience 
is what makes America "great." We have fast food drive-ins. 
microwave ovens. disposable contacts and razors, throw-away 
food containers, and TV dinners. 

Thll result of this mllntality of convenience is that Americans 
produce three times as much waste as our European 
counterparts. For example, daily trash produced in Calcutta, 
India is 1.12 pounds per person. In New York the rate is 3.96 
pounds pnr person. 

Even though products are easily accessible, we do not have 
the right to overuse the products when alternatives are 
available. For example, the paper cups that are used in the 
Huddle are coated with a thin layer of wax. Because of this, 
th11se paper cups cannot be recycled and therefore are landfill­
bound. The alternative is to purchase a refillable plastic mug. 
This might give one a burden of carrying it around, but 
eventually it will become a habit. 

In othnr casns of waste. food is taken for granted in the din­
ing halls. People take excessive amounts of food and even 
napkins which end up as waste. Approximately 9,000 unused 
napkins arn wasted everyday at North Dining Hall because 
people insist on grabbing more than they can use. 
According to Harth Works. "every day Americans buy about 62 million newspapers ... and throw away around 44 million of them. That's the equivalent of dumping 500,000 trees into landfills each w11ek." Paper is known to take up 40 percent of the spaee in our landfills. These landfills are rapidly filling up. The United States has about 5500 landfills now and a third of these are expected to dose by the mid-1990s. Few are expected to bn d1weloped bllcause nobody wants them in his or her back yard. 
Currently at Notre Dame a campaign is starting in the dining halls for ~~ach dean Obsnrver to bll reused several times instead of being thrown into the recyeling bin after one reading. With 11veryonn's participation, someday fewnr copies of the Observer will nnnd to be printlld, thus saving money and reducing waste without reducing readership. 
By integrating r11speetful habits into our daily lifestyle, we are not only taking steps to save our planet, but we are saving monny. Hernember that it is Reduce, Heuse, and Hecycle-in that order. 
Anton .'ialud and Damon Sinars are members ofStudents for Environmental Action and fellow earth citizens. 
EARTH BRIEFS 
Earth Pal events at Potawatomie Park 
• SOUTHEND-Indiana University at South Bend is sponsoring Earth Day events for children at the Potawatomie Park Zoo. The sehoul's student government and environmental group will provide activities for children including environmental games, a nature walk, earth crafts, garbage pick-up, and information on environmtmtal groups. 
Ozone season arrives in Indiana 
• EVANSILLE -Evansville, Indianapolis, South Bend and Ow1~nsboro, Ky.. are among 98 areas in the United States cited for "marginal" violations of ozone standards, and they'll fall under the scrutiny of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for the second of three straight summers. If ozone levels of the air for 1991. 1992 or 1993 are considered too high, an area will be bumptld up from "marginal" to the next eategory, moderate. And if it happens. residents of that area will have to have vehicles inspected for emissions and will pay more for things such as gasoline and dry cleaning. 
Stars ~r~h to uve Walden Woods 
• CON R , Mass. -Musician Don Henley led about 1,000 volunteers on a six-mile walk through Walden Woods last Sunday to raise money to buy land in the area immortalized in the writings of Henry David Thoreau. Also walking were former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas and actors Ed Begley Jr., Harry Hamlin and Kirstie Alley. They called for a halt to proposed development in the pristine woodland that provided the setting and subject for much of Thoreau's 19th century writings. 
ND Environmental Task Force makes progress in its first year 
BY STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame's Environmental Task Force (ETF) is one committee that has had an im­pact on the university, accord­ing to Thomas Mason, vice president of business affairs and chair of the task force. 
"I think that what we have here is probably one of the best deals we have going as far as student-administration cooper­ation," said Mason. As evidence he points to the projects ac­complished by the ETF in its first year of existence. 
1 
"We had people come to us 
Thomas Mason 

saying the water tasted funny, so we looked into that and competition sponsored byended up having the pipes Students for Environmental changed in a number of build­Action, the ETF agreed to help
ings," Mason said. The water with monitoring each dorm as project was a result of studies well as put up the prize for the 
done by the ETF which showed winning dorm. the water going into the build­"It's a win-win situation be­ing was drinkable, but the wa­cause we really have common ter coming from the taps was goals with the students," said 
contaminated by rust from old Mason. pipes. According to Anton Salud, co­
In more recent projects, Ma­president of SEA, the ETF has son said he feels good about the been open to suggestions and cooperation the ETF has had listens to concerns. Salud also 
with students. For instance, in attends an ETF meeting once a the current energy saving semester to update the task 
Environmentalism provides more jobs 
By STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 
Associate News Editor 
While the Earth Day celebra­
tion is in its twentieth year, the 
history of environmental law 
boasts a slightly longer record. 
According to Conrad Kellen­
berg, Notre Dame professor of 
environmental law. the National 
Environmental Policy Act 
(NEPA). passed in 1969, 
marked the beginning of the 
environment's place in Amer­
ica's courts. 
Yet, with the vagueness of 
many environmental laws on 
one hand, and the persistence 
of environmental action groups 
on the other, the court system 
has been an equivoeal player in 
the protection of the environ­
ment. 
According to Kellenberg. the statutes that have passed to protect the environment, begin­ning with NEPA in 1969, have been very broad and very vague-a compromise that had to be made in order for the statutes to be passed. Conse­quently, corporations have been able to find loopholes which al­low big businesses to continue practices hazardous to the en­vironment. 
Kellenberg did, however, add that there have been successful court cases for the environmen­tal movement. "Sierra Club and other groups have been suc­cessful in forcing the EPA to make restrictions on the vague statutes." But the problem, he said, lies in the attempt to pro­tect industry and jobs over pro­tecting the environment. 
"Industry and jobs are the two reasons that. are generally given for striking down envi­ronmental laws," Kellenberg said. "The state of Indiana has taken a consistently anti-envi­ronmental attitude for these reasons," he added. 
"To a certain extent there has 

Conrad Kellenberg 

been an environmental know­
nothing attitude on the part of 
some people," said Kellenberg, 
"even if there were no industry 
or jobs to be protected, they 
still know so little about the en­
vironment that they would be 
inclined to be unconcerned." 
According to Kellenberg, 
though, despite the good inten­
tions of politicians in preserving 
industry and jobs, they are 
unaware that environmentalism 
is not against jobs. 
"Environmentalism makes 
more jobs than the present 
anti-environmental industry 
does. 
"Renewable energy makes more jobs than coal and oil. Recycling employs more people than landfills. lt is unfortunate that the word has not gotten around that an environmental way of going about things is generally more labor intensive than our present way." 
He added that the word will not necessarily get to the courts until it gets to the people. "The ordinary people in the United States are more educable than the courts," he said. "The law looks backward rather than forward, the law follows the thinking of the people rather than leads." 
force on SEA's activities as well 
as where SEA may need help. 
According to Mason, the re­
cycling program has really been 
student initiated. The idea for a 
reusable mug in the Huddle, for 
instance. was an idea a student 
got from another university. 
"That we've reduced our dis­posable trash by 40 percent in one year is amazing,"said Ma­son. He also pointed out the task force's work on the switch to natural gas for six university vehicle, as well as the smoking policy, and the current work that is going on to preserve natural areas around campus. 
The success of the ETF. how­ever, does not translate into administrative power. Accord­ing to Mason, the ETF looks into issue, compiles a report, and then submits the report to University president, Edward Malloy. 
"We haven't yet made a rec­ommendation to the president that has been denied," said Ma­son, "It's not a question of au­thority, we are dealing in an area where we have to get things done." 
Earth Day events set 
Special to the Observer 
A concert on Saturday 

at Stepan Field will 
culminate a week of 
aetivities in recognition of 
Earth Day on April 22. 
From lectures and a na­

ture walk, to a mass and a 
special demonstration by 
Students for 
Environmental Action 
(SEA), a full slate of events 
are scheduled in 
recognition of the earth. 
The ND/SMC Earth Day 

celebration, which will be 
held Saturday in 
conjunction with Hog­
stock, will take place from 
11 to 7 p.m. Information 
booths will be set up with 
representatives from 
campus groups. 
Participants will include 

World Peace Action 
Group, Women United for 
Peace and Justice, SEA, 
ND/SMC Biology Club, 
SMC Social Action Group, 
Amnesty International, 
Pax Christi, and others. 
From 1 to 3:30 p.m., 

elementary school 
students from SEA's 
Outreach Program will be 
present to talk to students 
about the environment. 
Finally, a special mass will be offered by Father Michael Himes at 5 p.m. at the Grotto. 
Thursday, SEA will display stacks of newspapers collected from the campus in recognition of the paper wasted by providing a copy of the Observer for every student. Each three­foot stack of papers will represent one tree. 
For details about these events, contact Anton Salud at 277-1112. 

---·

--~---­
----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~---------~-----------~-----­
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 page 11 
~Ihe~Obser:ver-o-
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Busi111ess Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor •..................... David Kinney Advertising l\llanager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .•............•... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Ma111ager.............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor .. Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column -space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
your tl\o~kt~ . . . . , . 
EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Change frightens administration 
The debate brewing over the past several years on the issue of faculty participation in governance reached a climax this spring when the Faculty Senate considered voting no confidence in the administration. Motivated by mounting faculty pressure, University President Father Edward Malloy and Provost Timothy O'Meara agreed with members of the executive committee of the Faculty Senate on several sweeping changes in the structures and policies governing the running of the University. 
In spite of the coercive means by which it was reached, the agreement appears to be a genuine compromise. The faculty gained access to a greater role in University governance, while Malloy's desire to protect Notre Dame's Catholic identity was preserved. 
It was refreshing to see open, frank communication between the two parties in disagreement. It is an important step when the administration and its opposition can end the threats and mandates, discuss the issues, and negotiate a compromise. 
One nagging question remains: Why did it take so long for this agreement to come about? 
The answer is clear. As has been demonstrated time and again, the administration purposely dragged its feet on an important issue until the situation reached a near-crisis crescendo. 
Rather than taking a definite stand on the issue, Malloy and other leaders shut their doors and hoped the furor would die down. Only when it became clear that its opposition would not disappear was the administration willing to make concrete changes. 
Scare tactics and the responses they bring should be the exception, and not the norm. 
While one might argue that those in the administration are attempting only to protect Notre Dame's unique Catholic character, history shows that the administration is afraid first of change, and second of any situation that demands change. 
Such conclusions are troubling. If the administration at Notre Dame is unable to listen to those who hold its interests closest to heart, the University faces a bleak future. Becoming a national Catholic research institution 
might be difficult without faculty and students to do so. 
DOONESBURY 
TH/5 15 GOIN6 
TO 813 7Ht taJ(j­
fflFOUf( Ha.JR5 
(F!rfYUFt... 
I 

Notre Dame is not what it used to be 
Dear Editor: 
Turn to page 16 of your Dome. The statements from Raphael 
M. Kelly, '61, and Congressman Romano L. Mazzoli, '54, should be treasured as relics from an age gone by. They praise the enlightened administrators, Notre Dame spirit, and the credo of life meaning more than making money. The ND viewbook I received as a high school senior stressed the warm and loving Notre Dame family. I guess this is the same one that recently cut off our wrestling team without any notice. The bereft wrestlers were left with only two days to transfer colleges if they wanted to continue wrestling. What is the reason for breaking recruit­ing promises to J .J. McGrew and others about a strong ·commitment to wrestling? What of the $3 million en­dowment that Bucky O'Connor supposedly designated for wrestling? Dick Rosenthal states that wrestling did not re­flect the interests of the student body. The same parents of the ND family that surprised you with the Pangborn conversion have now decided that you don't like the wrestling program. I bet most people don't watch rugby, lacrosse, women's basketball, track, so 
ss 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
DID YOU /NTH£3 
'Nobody gets a lifetime 
BRIN6 CAR. YOU Ya.JR. WGHT70 
rehearsal. As specks of dust 
6AM&-Gf:f50M& 80Y~ Z'9, THOUGH. 
we're universal. So let this love 
I I 
survive and be the greatest gift 
you can give.' Indigo Girls 
Whoopie, it's Wednesday, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 
why are these still around? I'm sure Rosenthal will apply the same logic and support ax­ing these and other frivolous activities (An Tostal, Keenan Revue) to leave just the worship of football (the Dollar) and perhaps men's basketball. Open discussion is the real is­sue here, however. Our athletic department has joined the trend seen in Student Affairs. Without any notice, it was de­cided that Pangborn would be converted to a women's dorm. Just like wrestling, no students were asked about the situation. I would like to think that 18 to 22-year-olds could be treated as at least semi-knowledgeable adults. I am able to vote for the leaders of my country, get married, and be imprisoned for crimes I commit. One hand trusts me with an honor code while the other prevents me from choos­ing what hours of the day and night my friends can visit and study with me in my dorm. This duality is contradictory and ir­rational. Monk has presided over a slapdash group of people who have brought you no real rape policy or recognition, a marshmallow discrimination "policy," a constant tightening of the alcohol policy, parietals (the crime with a punishment 
more severe than that for van­dalism), non-recognition of GLND/SMC, a disavowal of the existence of pro-choice groups (close-mindedness?), and a transition from undergraduate education to a research univer­sity. It is kind of funny when you read little quotes from alumni, especially the older ones. They prized their undergraduate ed­ucation for the caring atmo­sphere and the acceptance of inquiry and debate. I expected the introduction in the Bulletin of Information to be true when I applied to be a freshman. Foolish me. The family here is nothing like mine at home. ND abuses the chil­dren when it does not recognize the fact that they are adults with a good deal of intelligence. The Faculty Senate is right. I have no confidence in Monk or the current state of this college. I exhort the HPC and the Student Senate to join with the Faculty Senate and protest the leadership of this community. Our uncaring heads of adminis­tration have gone too far. A sign in the Registrar's office says, "We exist for the stu­dents." What do Monk and the administration exist for? 
Michael J. Kluck Flanner Hall April 13, 1992 

Viewpoint
page 12 Wednesday, April 22, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Knowledge and reason can't re 
lace revelation 
Dear Editor, 
I want to respond to the essay 
by David Lutz which was 
published in the March 25th is­
sue of The Observer. I agreed 
with the insight of the essay but 
was saddenP.d by the need for· 
it. But as Charles KettP.ring 
said, a problem well statP.d is a 
problem half solved. 
When my sons came to Notre 
Damn I was delighted to lind it 
to be a place of faith. Where 
else can you sen undergraduate 
college students who are not 
mnbarrassed to be seen praying 
and going to Mass as a regular 
part of their daily lives'? But 
what Mr. Lutz is saying is that 
all this is being undermined in 
an effort to conform to the rest 
of the world! It should be the 
other way around. 
Mr. Lutz is corn~ct when he says that the Protestant colleges are irretrievably lost as Christian schools. In fact. the richness and truth embodied in the Protestant Heformation may be gone forever from our country, to our loss. 

The Protestant Heformation was one of God's great gifts to Christianity, including us Catholics. Our country was be­gun largely on the foundation of the Protestant Heformation. We Catholics were latecomers and were allowed to grow here because of what others had done. 
The Protestant churches are conforming themselves to the world. As Mr. Lutz points out, they have become democratic institutions, tolerant of heretical beliefs and practices, with the tenets of the faith only a majority vote away from changing. They will continue to sway with "every wind of doc­trine" and be lost unless the Holy Spirit acts to rescue them. 

The idea that all values are equal is pervasive. As a result, too many Americans do not ~now how to decide what is right and wrong, or even how to distinguish fact from opinion. You are considered right if most people agree with you. There are no absolutes to be applied, no reference points. I had one friend tell me that if 50% of Americans plus one believed that sexual abuse or ritual 
Lack of respect for women is a problem at ND/SMC 
Dear Editor: 
In light of recent artides re­garding Sexual Assault Awareness Week, it seems there should be some discussion re­garding the underlying prob­lem. The abuse of sex is much more than a social problem where there is some kind of communication trouble. From a Catholie/Christian perspective this problem is very much a moral issue. 
When you consider the num­ber of Playboys circulating the dorms and the amount of ap­plause Sam Malone (of TV's Cheers) receives for his various exploits. you can begin to sense the questions we should be asking. Is there a laek of re­spect for women and a lack of sacredness regarding sex?· Unfortunately, I think that most students would agree these conditions exist at ND and SMC. 
If the abuse of sex is a moral problem (and a responsible Catholic/Christian community would recogniZf! it as such) why then does ND's religious com­munity ignore this issue? In four years at NO or SMC, stu­dents are more likely to hear fifty homilies on world peace before even one mention of the misuse of sex in our society. 
If our ND/SMC religious do not get involved and voice their concerns from a Christian per­spective, then this type of self­indulgence and the resulting victimization that often occurs are likely to persist. 
Two questions remain. Does the Holy Cross religious com­munity realize the extent that sex is abused and do they have the courage to speak in such a subject? If so, how many stu­dents would be compelled to re­examine the CatholirJChristian teaching and embrace Our Lady on the Dome rather than our society's hero, Sam Malone? 
Tom Sullivan Notre Dame '89 Chicago, IL April 13, 1992 

I~-------------------------·I 
I I 
I I
We've received several anonymous letters
1
1 regarding the Bookstore Basketball controversy. I If you have the courage to sign your name to one,
I 
send your views to: I ViewpointI P.O. Box a 1 Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556 I 
I 
I 

•-------------------------~ 
sacrifice of children were right, 
then it would be the thing to do. 
The Catholic Church and Notre Dame are not innocent witnesses to this state of affairs. We have contributed to it. I recently had a discussion with a group of Notre Dame under­graduates and recent graduates about the nature of God. All of them felt that it is possible (if not probable), that God is female. 
When I challenged this idea on the basis of the scriptures and the fact that Jesus is male, I found myself on the defensive. They said that the only reason God was considered male was because that our religion was begun in a patriarchal society, which therefore defined God as male. 
What was wrong was not so much their conclusion, as the premise that God is something we can invent. Rather than let­ting God reveal his nature to us, we may define God as we feel necessary to fulfil our current needs. If it is felt that there is a need for a greater role for women in the Church, we must allow believers to define God as female. 
I am sure that few people ar­rive at Notre Dame believing that God is female or they can reason their way to a better God. But the foundation is ev­erywhere in the Church. The Church has elevated human reason and knowledge to a level with or even above divine reve-
Letter only fanned flames of bigotry 
Dear Editor: 
I was appalled by the ludi­crous statements of Mr. Jeffrey O'Donnell, and it is sad to see the likes of him on this campus, for his hatred-filled rhetoric will only fan the flames of racial bigotry towards Japanese and Japanese-Americans. 
Just because the Japanese work hard doesn't mean that they are out to "conquer the American market," as Mr. O'Donnell claims. As an Asian, I can tell him honestly that we grow up under the influence of Confucian culture, which places a high premium on education and hard work, just as Ameri­cans have long prided them­
selves for their Protestant work 
ethic. 
It is clear, however, from a persuit of the book titles men­tioned in Mr. O'Donnell's letter (The Japanese Conspiracy Agents of Influence and The New Masters) that he has a warped, narrow-minded way of thinking about the Japanese. What kind of scholarly reading is that? 
I also attended the March 21 lecture given by Professor Cummings, and I think Mr. O'Donnell should stop his ful­minations against the Japanese as a scapegoat for America's economic woes and instead, pay heed to Cummings' remark that an American version of lation. Even in the CCD classes 
in the parish the emphasis is on 
what the children know rather 
than what they believe. 

This is the logical result of the 
Church having embraced the 
idea put forth by Aquinas that 
the intellect was not fallen, only 
the will. Thus. it is considered 
possible to arrive at divine truth 
through reason and superior 
knowledge. We are spending 
time trying to figure things out 
and passing on knowledge 
rather that listening for the still 
small voice of God. If this 
continues, the Catholic Church 
and Notre Dame will go the way 
of our Protestant brothers and 
sisters. 
What we need is humility. We should be saying, "God let me see this," not, "I figured this out." We must test all our knowledge against divine reve­lation: the scriptures, the wis­dom of committed Christians (including Protestants and lay Catholics), the promptings of the Holy Spirit, and the tradi­tion and teaching of the Church. 
Someone who is unwilling to do this does not belong in a Christian university, no matter how good his reputation might be in academic circles. Truth is given to us as Christians through the grace of God, not the intellectual prowess of our teachers. 
Donald E. Fry Arlington, VA AprilS, 1992 
perestroika is needed, particularly an investment in human capital. 
So while I am on the subject of education, I think Mr. O'Donnell can either remain in his blighted ignorance, or he can avail of the opportunity as a student at Notre Dame to take some Japan or Asia-related courses from the government, history, literature, or philosophy departments. My point is, Mr. O'Donnell, you will never truly understand a nation unless you learn about its his­tory and culture and really get to know its people as people. 
Jenny Wang Lyons Hall April 13, 1992 

Dear Editor: 
I was disappointed to see that more than a few Notre Dame faculty members and students are not pleased that President George Bush will address the 1992 graduating class at the Commencement exercises in May (The Observer, March 31). 
It is indeed a sad state of affair.> when certain elements of the Notre Dame community are not honored to have the President of the United States address its graduating class and pay tribute to the University as it commemorates it sesquicentennial. 
I was particularly struck by the comments of Sister Kathleen, rectress of Lyons Hall. Sister Kathleen says that the President's policies are not consistent with the standards of Notre Dame. Is Sister Kathleen as upset with the policies of another commencement speaker Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York? 
Does she feel that Senator Moynihan who has long sup­ported the abortion rights movement better represents the policies of Notre Dame? 
Don Dunphy Notre Dame '64 Westbury, NY April7, 1992 
Accent 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 

Jeanne Blasi 
From the Playpen 
Calling for an 
immediate 
coup d'etat 
D 
ear National Defense Department, 
It has come to my attention that 
there is a small community being 
ruled by a dictator in South Bend, 
Indiana. This dictator is rapidly gaining power and is stifling the intellectual and moral growth of the community. His steady increase in power threatens the stability of our 'democracy.' I firmly believe that some action must be taken to assure the individual freedom of this community. 
Though the people who live here are free to leave, they have such pride in their community and heritage that it tears them apart to think of leaving. 
These people, whom I will refer to as 'Domers', have repeatedly tried to make changes in the current government, all to no avail. Their biggest and last failure was their attempt to give some of the lower government workers a voice over matters concerning them and the average citizens with whom they work most closely. Everyone approved of it; except for the Grand Dictator. He merely vetoed it, thus maintaining his absolute authority and refused to discuss the issue further for weeks. He finally consented to discussing the issue and compromised only under the imminent threat of a coup d'etat. 
The citizens of this community have minimal freedom of speech. Their protests are closely monitored by the government and always occur under a constant threat of exile. Once, many years ago, under the previous dictator, a protest was quelled when the mighty man told them that whomever was there when he returned in X minutes, would be exiled. 
Recently, at a peaceful, organized protest 
challenging a parietals policy, some students 
were forced to put down their signs even though 
they posed no threat to the community. The 
students obeyed the order out of fear of arrest 
by the fierce security force. 
Recently, this dictator sprung a new law on the community turning a specific group of citizens who smoke into social recluses. He has marked this group detrimental to society and mandated that they only smoke within the confines of a 'well-ventilated' closet. Public persecution of smokers is now permitted. The punishment for this offense is a public apology followed by hours and hours of community service. A second offense could result in a public condemnation and exile. 

This dictatorship has also deprived its citizens the freedom to make their own moral decisions. An infringement of any one of its complex laws can result in sudden and immediate exile. 
These citizens are not children. They need to form their own moral values on issues such as the kind of relationships they want with members of the opposite sex, not have a dictator impose his views upon them. Domers are treated like children; their morals are dictated to them by their 'parent' dictator. When these Domers are released or exiled into the real world, many have great difficulty adjusting. 
Ridiculous and oppressive laws result in mass breakage of them, which shows an utter disrespect for the law. I must question any law book that contains the sentence 'souvenir cups are forbidden' with no clarification of the rationale behind the law. It is one thing to specify cups with illegal beverages in them. It is completely another matter to forbid a certain kind of cup. 
Therefore, I strongly urge the Department of Defense to take a strong action against this dictatorship. Action must be taken immediately, for the power and money of this dictator increases exponentially every day. 
Please investigate the matter further, before it is too late! 
Jeanne Blasi is Production Manager of The Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 

By STEVE TANKOVICH Accent Writer 
Think for a moment about those friendly people whom students see every day, who always greet them with smiles. Yet few even know their names. They are the dining hall checkers. 
Who are the dining checkers? "They're mostly senior citizens," said Jill Riggs, Senior Manager at North Dining Hall. "There are about 20-25 for each dining hall," Riggs added, "they work part time 10-30 hours a week." 
Loretta Sanders is the head checker for North Dining Hall. As head checker, a job which she has held since 1989, Sanders supervises the 20-25 checkers who work the different shifts at the hall. When asked about the students she meets through her job, Sanders responded positively, "I meet a lot of the students and I know them. I guess that's why I enjoy my job -because of the students." 
Sanders and two other J.D. checkers, Teresa Kosik and Jean Mitchell told some of the more amusing stories they have run into while on the job. 
Many of the incidents centered around visitors to the ND/SMC campuses. Often a lost person will wander into the dining hall looking for directions, says Sanders. One year on graduation weekend, a woman came into the dining hall close to tears. She couldn't find her family, Sanders explained. 
Mitchell also spoke of a humorous incident which occurred when a tour bus of senior citizens who showed up unexpectedly one day and wanted to eat at NOH. "We're not prepared to serve that many without notice," stated Mitchell. 


The checkers have had many encounters with the media. The dining halls have a regular policy about not admitting cameras into the eating areas. The checkers were shocked when a Channel 16 news crew suddenly entered the dining hall with "a big TV camera." They were doing "A Day In the Life of NO" and were following a student around. Remarked Sanders. "we were stunned." 
But clearly some of the most humorous incidents which happen in the dining hall involve the students. Sanders explained the occasional problem they have with students who try to sneak into the dining halls without having their I.D.'s checked. "You kinda know when they want to sneak in," admits Sanders, "because they just sort of stand there and look at you; then they make a dash." 
When these hungry students are spotted, the checkers will follow them into the serving area and ask for their J.D.'s. Sometimes they'll ask, "Are you talking to me?" but generally, they'll admit what they've done and hand over their 1.0. to be checked. The checkers do not feel great animosity toward these individuals. It usually happens at the busier times when there are long lines, the three agreed: some NO students just don't want to wait in line. 
Many of the checkers are retirees, and some have worked for the university in another capacity. Kosik is one such checker. She recalled some important events in the history of dining hall services. "I was there during World War II," stated Kosik, "and there were 6000 servicemen at South Dining Hall." "We worked for $50 a month," Kosik added. 
page 13 

Another 1.0. checker who has had a long history working with Notre Dame is James Szyarto, one of the two male checkers at NOH. Szyarto remembers working with Kosik back in 1937, when he was employed as a coffee boy for SOH. 
Working in the dining hall was considerably different then. Kosik mentioned how Holy Cross priests used to sit at the end of the tables and how the students would wear ties. "I used to ride the street car to work," Szyarto remarked. Szyarto's wife is also employed as a checker by NO Food Services. There is also a set of sisters who work at NOH. 
The job of checker was originally done by students, but was changed years ago. 
The present workers are aware of what ND/SMC students are going through. "Be nice to them and they'll be nice to you," is one of Kosik's mottos. 
Sanders can clearly identify with the needs and struggles of the young adults on campus. "I have a daughter around the age of_some of these students, so I guess I can handle them better," Sanders admits. Sanders is not the only checker with college age children. "I like the students because I have students this age," Mitchell stated. 
There are abundant signs of the checker's concern for the students. Their cheerful smiles and positive attitudes are an inspiration to tired students who come over to the dining hall when stressing over papers, projects, or tests. 
"Its kind of sad." stated Mitchell, "that you meet [the students) and after four years they are gone." But she is quick to return to thP positivP. "I enjoy it," she remarked. "thPre's never a dull moment." 
'I meet a lot of the students and I know them. I guess that's why I enjoy my job -because of the students.' 
-Loretta Sanders Head checker, North Dining Hall 

page 14 Accent wednesda~April22, 1992 
Notre Dame's hotel "on the campus" 
'0 

~ 
The Morris Inn has been a landmark on Notre Dame's campus since 1952. 

By KEVIN SULLIVAN 
Accent Wnter 
Tht> Morris Inn. Notre DanII''s hotPI on eampus, has such a long and impressive list of famous guPsts and sueh a rollt>ction of Notre Dame arwcdotPs that it's hard to bt>liPVP it's only 40 yt>ars old. YPt, tlw Inn is ('PlPbrating that annivPrsary this vpry wPek. 
On April 21. 1952 tlw Morris Inn opt>nPd its doors to providt> sPrvkP and hospitality for tlw guPsts and friPnds of tlw Uniwrsitv. 
Tlw Inn's hrst guests were Dr. and Mrs. C. H. Schwinn of Boston. MassarhusPtts. who, inridPntallv. WPrP on tlwir horwvmoon. · 
Th;, Inn was foundPd as a 

-
gift to tlw UnivPrsity bark in I 952 from tlw latP F. M. Morris. At that tinH'. the building had an "ultra­rnodt>rn" look of briek facing, and singiP rooms cost $6 per night. 
Sin~.;_P 1952. the Morris Inn has SNVPd somp of thP biggpst namPs in thP world and undPr tlw l>omP. SevPral U. S. Prt>sidt>nts havP slt>pt undPr its roof. including Jimmy CartPr. Hichard Nixon, and this VPar's Graduation spt>akt>i. (;porgP Bush. 
Tht> Inn has also hostPd show busirwss legPnds such as Bob llopP, DPbbiP HPynolds, Wayrw NPwton and Liberace. 
Addt>d to tlw many famous nanws. Tlw Morris Inn has also sPrvPd countless confPrPncPs for institutions likP Tht> CPntPr for Continuing Education. In 1987. the hotPl was proud to play host to that yt>ars Spt>dal Olympics. 
That yPar. thP Morris Inn playPd host to famous facPs likP Bill Cosby, Don Johnson. William Hurt. and Arnold SchwarzPnPggPr. 
With all thosP famous guests popping in and out, the Murris Inn has some interesting storiPs to tPll. The subject of 


one talP is N. D. alumnus and  However, the hotel and Mr.  University's tradition.  
benPfactor, Hoy Siegfried. In the late 1970's, Mr. SiPgfriPd came to South Bend for an lrish-U.S.C. football  Siegfried were able to work ·out a compromise, and Siegfried spent the night sleeping on one of the Morris  The Inn falls under the Business Affairs department of N. D., so the University constantly works with the Inn  
game. Because of the unprPdictable weather of South Bend. he was "fogged­in", and the Morris Inn regretfully told him that there was no room in the Inn.  Inn's banquet tables. The Morris Inn has long been a hospitable member of the Notre Dame family and a representative of the  in renovations and modernizations. Manager David Harr reported that today the Morris Inn is currently "a 92-room, full­service hotel."  

To that effect, the Morris Inn recently completed full renovations of it's dining room and coektaillounge. 
The fine cuisine of the Inn has also moved into the 90's. Chef Don Miller took over in 1987 and changed the menus to keep pace with today's more health-eonsdous diners. The dining room now features entrees that are lighter and fresher. For instance, Chef Miller has fish llown in six days a week. 
The newer menus and the rennovations make the dining room a highlight of the Morris Inn today. It is also open to the general public as well as hotel guests. llarr said that the dining room "will really give you a feel for the Inn." 
Despite these newer aspects of the Morris Inn, however, Harr pointed out that like the University it serves, the hotel has a long-standing family atmosphere. 
Employees of the Inn tend to stay on for unusually long terms. Some departments average upwards of 26 years per employee, and former Chef Ted Tarnowski retired after 35 years at the Inn. llarr claimed that this type of thing is, "Unheard of in the hotel business." 
There have also been only eight head managers in the Morris' forty years -a very low number over that amount of time. 
The Morris Inn has a lengthy history. Because this week is the Inn's 40th anniversary, now would be a good time to stay at the Inn or simply visit. 
Harr and his staff have put together a display of the Inn's history in the lobby and have other events planned to celebrate the 40th anniversary. So take a minute to walk over to the Morris Inn and take in a living piece of Notre Dame history. 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 The Observer 
Irish men's track team glad not to be in Kansas anymore 
By RIAN AKEY "Todd Herman. who has done minutes 56.9 seconds in the Phil Caspar ran on the dis­Sports Writer well for us all year in the high same event. tance medley team and the mile jump. cleared his first jump be­J.R. Meloro ran the 5000 me­relay squad in addition to his 
"I don't think we're in Kansas fore the rain," said Piane. ter course in 14 minutes 53.6 individual events. anymore." "Then, with the bar moved seconds to finish sixth. Coach Piane made particular 
Say this famous line to a higher. the showers began, and Coach Piane was quick to note of Phil Caspar's efforts. Notre Dame track team mem­it's virtually impossible to high credit these runners who over­calling his meet, "an overall ber this week, and he's likely to jump under those conditions. came the conditions. great weekend." show signs of relief. The event, however, was not "I was very happy with J.R. But Caspar has already set 
That's because strong winds postponed until after Todd had Meloro's performance, and the goals for the remainder of the and heavy down pours made attempted his jumps, and by performance of the mile relay season. this weekend's Kansas Relays a then it was too late-he was al­team, who qualified for "I was pleased with my re­frustrating meet for many Irish ready out of the competition." ICAAAAs," he said. lays," he noted, "but the athletes. Meloro, a freshman, was weather affected my individual 
Despite these conditions, sev­equally pleased with his run. event, making it difficult to 
Head coach Joe Piane ex­eral Irish athletes were able to "I ran a personal best," he qualify for ICAAAAs. Now, I plained one example of this post impressive performances. said, "and any time you do that only have to more meets to per­frustration. Shawn Schneider ran to a you have to be happy." form well enough to qualify." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from t 0 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t 4 LaFortune and from t 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Sa1n1 Mary·s office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifleds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
MOVING TO LA? HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 It could be to the athletic dept.: I'm looking for roommates to live 4 56 BDRMS FULLY FURNISHED A WASTED OPPORTUNITY your time is gonna come near Manhattan Beach after SECURITY SYSTEMS TICKETS if you don't check out the Student­-led zeppelin
NOTICES 
graduation. WASHERS/DRYERS Alumni Community Service 
CALL JULIE x1342 287-4989 2EricCiaptonConcertTix programs. Be a part of service ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS 05/15 Chicago;May 13 opportunities in alumni clubs. A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS WORD PROCESSING Summer Roommate needed RENT 1 BDRM APMT nr ND, Ca11Ed@x1561 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22 A BABY! Young financially secure 256-6657 Turtle Creek apartment $250+util.,dep. 287-7039. esc Catholic couple looking to adopt 
Call x2981 Extended Catholic family 9:00p.m. and provide a loving home to an $$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat TURTLE CREEK SUMMER from NJ. Need as many GRAD infant. All Expenses paid. Please Pandora's Books ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT SUBLET-PRICE NEG.; TIX as humanly possible. WANTED: A rational explanation for call collect (317) 364-0300 for more corner of ND ave & Howard -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. FURNISHED. 271-1399 Call Teresa x2899 to haggle the termination of the ND wrestling information. reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday Free transportation! Room & Board! program. Must be logical, coherent, 
Over 8,000 openings. No FALL SUBLET Modern 2bedrm apt FOR SALE:One-way plane ticket to TRUE and must not make the ADOPTION LEARN TO SKYDIVEI Classes experience necessary. Male or 2.5 mi from Dome. Fully furnished, San Jose,CA for May 9th-CHEAP!!­university look like a bunch of Childless, Christian, Couple wishes every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00AM. Female. For employment program fireplace,microwave,stereo. call Samx4863 money-hungry idiots. If you can help to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Train and jump the same day. call Student Employment Services Partyrm, pool, tennis court. Avail us out, call Athletic Czar DICK Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­Modern equipment and training at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597 8/20-12/20 NO DEPOSIT $605/Mo FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1-322-8187. programs. Licensed instructors. 277-8914 to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. 800-GET-CLUE. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) BE ON T.V many needed for Jim x1558. P.S. What team is next on the list? GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD1 948-2665. commercials. Now hiring all ages. Staying for Summer? Looking for 
For casting info. Call Turtle Creek roommate -Marcie Need 1or2 grad tix. Let's make a 4th FLOOR KEITH ANDERSON I am a worm, slowly and surely SUMMER TOURS TO EUROPE, (615) 779-7111 Ext. 1678. 271-8571 deal. Ron 3315.1eave message. You'd better hide the pellet gun ...or sinking deeper into the bowels of AUSTRALIA AND THE GREEK 
we'll shove it up your assII the earth, putting more desolation ISLANDS. 15-19 days. All Female roommate needed for SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG. AN OLDER GRADUATING DAD between me and the universe expenses paid including meals. Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. NEAR N.D. WILL RENT NEEDS 2 GRADIATION TICKETS AnTostal QFTC Wednesday Events: $1395 -$1798. Call Contiki Tours Call 258-5702 INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT FOR HIS KIDS. CALL JEFF AT 272 
12-10 pm AIROBSTACLE STAY AWAY FROM LAFORTUNE 1 -800-950-1 037 A DISCOUNTED RATE 9602 
COURSE (Fieldhouse) COMPUTER LAB AFTER 10 PM' ext. #2. FOR RENT AFTER 8:00pm 11 am-5 pm GOLF TOURNEY If you're typing a paper and 
0 

CALL2879624 (Pro shop) you want a computer, don't 
I

TYPING AVAILABLE Thursday events: Mr. Campus, come late at night. 287-4082. ._B-ED-,N-B-R-EA-K-FA-sT-R-EG-Is-T-RY__, ._I__ _ __jl .... _ _J Pasta eating, bike race
F_O_R_S_A_l_E I_P_E_R_S_O_N_A_l 
EVERYBODY COMES THEN AND 
219-291-7153. ---Sign ups in dorm lobbies THERE'S ALWAYS A WAITING Typing INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $251 LIST!!!!!'! Go in the morning, Pickup & Delivery 2 Bedroom Good rates. Save Money. Call me each way on discounted scheduled fl fl it's peaceful and available. 277-7406 Walk to Campus for a quote 9:30-6:00, airlines to Europe from CHICAGO. II\__!\\ 
$390 Month 289-1993. Office near campus. Call (800) 325-2026. I \ L To those who weren't there, those TWINS...Have you been meaning to 232 3616 
I X X I 0 who won't be next year, and those call the twin registry but just haven't STUDENTS AND PARENTS! PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS 10 01 v
I I who were late, the rest of us gotten around to it? The Twin SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE SAVE on those housing costs. Buy Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold I l_l E present...WPA does Cornucopia:
I 

Registry of the Department of CREEK) 272-9540! this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. Game Day), at St. Joseph's High \ )--( I Humus is an aphrodisiac-do you 
Psychology needs identical and Get a break on your taxes, and a School. \ I p know how many garbanzo beans I fraternal twins to form a registry for New condo available mid-May return on your investment after Help the parents keep the kids safe \ I I eat every day? psychology studies. Twin students, thru mid-August. COMPLETELY graduation. Call Janet Knapp at after the prom. Proceeds go to · G Maybe that's just how they staff, faculty. or alumni needed. 
furnished, incl-RE/MAX 1 00 realty for more support the OINK! s explained your grandparents· Only one twin needs to be at uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2 information. 219-255-5858 or 219-Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. 
crossdressing!
N.D. Please call271-9039. bedrooms, 2 baths. 277-7402. Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit San Diego or BUST!!! Did you ever eat...? 
Walking distance to ND campus. are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call It makes my blood itch. PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION Call Kathleen -277­
ATTENTION: COUCH 272-3753 and leave message. I can't wait until I'm out in San I'm glad at least your leg gets some, for FALL 1709. &MATCHING LOVESEAT, & Tickets can be delivered directly to Diego with you. We will have _too_ Bill. Children's Community Co-op RECLINER 4 SALE-MUST SEE­you on ·campus. 
much fun. I hope your family does Morning Classes for 3's, 4's, OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT $150 271-9165 
not get sick of me... ~) -P.S. My If Patsy Cline and Charles Manson 5's and also Toddler Playschool. NEW, SPACIOUS 2 BDRM, 2BTH, 
Help Me, Please 

tongue guarantees 30 minutes or had children and those children had SPRING OPEN HOUSE, WID. GARAGE, WALKING DIST. AIR TIC (MALE), SB-SAN DIEGO, 
less... -> Your Honeybear children. those children would be 
Sunday, April 26, 3-5 p.m. TO ND CAMPUS, NICE POOL SUN, 5/10. CHEAP. 277-5891. I need graduation tickets if anyone 333 N Main St. South Bend CALL CAROLINE OR BILL AT 317-has some they are not going to use. Ride needed to IU and back Fri THE SURREAL MCCOYS Growing popularity within the 875-8890. 
NIKON N -2000 CAMERA WITH 50 Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any April 24-Sun April 26. Call with Notre Dame Community MM 1.8 LENS AND 35-70 MM info. x3747 
BRIAN, COLIN, AND VINCE(Call for references) SUMMER SUBLET 200M LENS AND 636 AF VIVITAR Peg Moody 234-2320 TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE FLASH. NEW CONDITION. please, help me 
To the 3 SMC's driving down Friday, April24FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO $450.00 272-4375 EVENINGS. 
1-94 last Thursday in a Tempo: Club 23 BEDROOMS. ONE AND ONE 
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO Thanks for the "escort HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO, 1 way ticket $128.00 ROUND
LOST/FOUND PHILADELPHIA. service"! Was it good for LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKING SBN-NEWARK RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 
TRIP. you too?-The 2 ND guys JASMINE GROOVE DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. b~t ofr x4070 
287-6541. 
@ THE CAP 'N CORKLOST: BETWEEN SOUTH DINING CALL ERIC X1392 

TOP TEN REASONS WHY WE Fri. and Sat.. April 24 & 25 HALL AND FISHER REGATTA A CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN DOUBLE LOFT LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW WONT BE INVITED BACK TO Music starts at 1 0 PMGOLD ID BRACELET WITH NAME X1376 YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND PALATINE Corner of Lasalle and Niles!
"MELISSA". SENTIMENTAL CALL KEN X1385 for sale 
TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 10.My mother-is not-a lesbian! 
VALUE !I! IF FOUND, PLEASE 
call Monica x3765 287-6541. 
9.Get naked and feed me grapes ONLY 1800CALL 283-3865. Spacious 4-5 bedroom home near 
B.Does that remind you of your flight Co-exs available Lafayette Square -Recently CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED NEEDED: out of Egypt? 
for

LOST: SILVER CELTIC CROSS ON remodeled -New carpeting -2 car 89 MERCEDES......... $200 Graduation tickets ! ! ! ! 
7.A-N-A-L(rearrange the letters) SILVER CHAIN. GREAT garage. $600.00 per month. Call 86 VW. ......................$ 50 for family, Please 6.Wankin' it-whose brother? 
4-23

SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND 277-4583 after 4:00p.m. 87 MERCEDES......... $100 call Alice @ X4907 
5.Handsome black man THIRSTY THURSDAY PLEASE CALL MARY 3440. $$$ 

65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50 

4.1 think about that and I just do SMC PICNIC MOVING TO CHICAGO?? 
Meg, NOT touch myself!Found-blue coat with keys ND'91 Graduate looking for female Choose from thousands starting 
• FRIENDS FOREVER' 3.Sam-Roxy,Erin-Catherine-NO Pick up your Co-ex 
by bookstore basketball courts--{;alf non-smoker roommate. If 
$25. AND 2.Nice penis at the South Dining Hall
x3039 interested, call Cynthia and leave a FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals •LOVE YOU ALWAYS!• !.Ping-pongmessage (708) 616-7818. Giveaway Prices. 
Love, 

Anyone need a ride to Long
Found:tan J. Crew jacket Campus 801-379-2929 Land M Moving to Washington D.C.? 2 Island/New York on Tues. or Wed.
View 277-7179. 
Summer Sublet Copyright #IN11 KJC. 
Domers ('90 and '91) looking for of Senior Week? 
Furnished 2 Bedroom 

WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in third roommate. May-Aug. Calf x4054 FOUND: 272-9817 88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K your tummy by accident? Loving Townhouse in Alexandria. Safe.Bead necklace w/ crucifix by Knott 
mil Hundreds below blue book! Jim 
doctor and his stay at home wife Close to metro ride to Capital Hill in 
White long sleeve ND shirt@ ACC Share 2Br house with M Grad W239-6064/H273-9059 would like to discuss Baby's future am $290/mo. 703-836-4193.
(in the Pit) Student. NEED: ld. or rhyth. GUITARIST
Laundry, Garage, Garden, 
with you. Please call us collect Call x3472 and leave message Porch, Air Cond. Avail Ma)• 1. $260 For Sale: anytime. (219) 462-5250. summer &/or next year for the 
Debra hey nil Metha-tones.
plus phone. 288-3878. One Way Ticket from South and Michael. Lost: EUDORA email disk, call call 271-0742 or 288-4859
Bend to Newark, NJ on 5/9. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA

David, x2385 ATTRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN also Dresser, TV, VCR 
Info on semester, year, graduate.LOVELY OLD VICTORIAfll BLDG. Very Cheap. Call Michael@ 277-FOOD PROVIDED 
summer and internship programs in 

NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL 2151. 
at the Student-Alumni Community Perth, Townsville, Sydney. and 2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL
[ WANTED ] Service program. Meet involved Melbourne. Programs start at Alicia .... 
RENTALS. 

ALASKA JOBS alums and learn how YOU can join $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 

$1000+/wk, room, board, airfare. them in service projects around the Even though MR. BUSH is speaking 2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, Now hiring. (503) 754-6051 ext. 8. country. 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with WITH BI:ST WISHES
at graduation, my aunt still wants to summer school. $200/mo. Use of all WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22 
the Crustaceans! Patricia Healy 
come. Please help her out;Seff me a facilities. Close to campus, safe CD PLAYER w/remote, exc. 
esc 

Wedding Consultant 
graduation ticket. Call x4233 neighborhood. 232-2794. condition x2385 9:00p.m. 
raft, you are missed. (219) 272-5640 

NBA PLAYOFFS 
Beat of Flvt1 
Thuraday New Jeraey at Cleveland Indiana at Boston LA Lalcera at Portland Seanle at Golden State 
Friday M larrl at Chicago Oetrolt at New York LA CUppers at Lilah San Antonio at Phoenix 
Saturday Indiana at Boston LA Lakera at Portland Seanle at Golden State New Jersey at Cleveland 
Sunday Mlarrl at Chicago Oetrolt at New York LA Clippers at Lilah San Antonio at Phoenix 
Monday Boston at Indiana 
Tueaday Cleveland at New Jersey New York at Oetrolt Golden State at Seanle Lilah at LA Cllpera 
Wadneaday, April 28 Chicago at Miami Phoenix at San Antonio Portland Ill LA Lakera 
Thuraday, April 30 Boston at Indiana Cleveland at New Jemey Lilah at LA Clippers Golden State at Seanle 
Friday, May 1 Chicago at M laml New York at Detroit Phoenix at San Antonio Portland Ill LA Laker& 
Saturday, May 2 Indiana at Boston New Jersey at Cleveland LA CllpperB at Lilah Seanle at Golden State 
Sunday, May 3 M larrl at Chicago Detroit at New York San Antonio at Phoenix LA Lakera at Portland 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
The Round of 64 Tueaday'a GaiiMtll 
Tequila Whhe Lightning 21, Automatic Weapons, 
etc.8 NO's Most Wanted 21. Off on Macleod 9 Bridget's 21, 21 Gun Salute 8 Shamlre Lanvna Ding Dong 21, 2 White 2 Win 17 The Gauchos 21, Flipper and the Undenoes 9 Wh~e Men Can1 JuiJ1)21, Aphrodisiacs 14 Moloko and Uhravlolence 21, No Vaseline 14 L Train 23, HYou're Soft, You've Lost 21 The Crime Dogs 21, Orange Juice 12 Convnon's Club 21, Hypothetical Sex 14 AH the Prealdent's Men 21, Vegetable Eroticism 13 The Good, The Bad, The Laundry ... 21, Nuts 15 Ebony Side of the Dome 21, Touch My Monkey 12 Tommy's Tavern 21, No Snackln' at theY 17 Flghtln' Kemals 21, Anack ot the Phyjhua 13 The Real Fab Five 21, The Hawk WIU Never Die 16 McCormick'a 21, The Dyslexic 961n Happy .. 9 Men Who Love Fermented Grain 21, Apocalypse 
and the Four Horsemen 14 Pale Riders 21, Yeah I The Commissioners 
Censored Our Name 9 Shoot or Get Off 21, We Hate Jimmy Buffett 17 Blackjack 21, Man Curoe'a Weddln Present 11 Bitter 21, 2 Guys and 3 Other Guys 11 Bittersweet 21, A Blow Dryer, Curling Iron, etc. t4 Drive-By Shooting 21, HWe Werent Such 
Good ... 19 
Word To Your Mother II 21, Charleaton Chlefs15 Jimmy Chitwood and the Picket Fence 28, Black Sheep 26 Salubrlous-n-Calllplgous 21, Five Guys With No 
Social LWe Since Tone's Burned Down 14 Frank Drebln 2t, Hot Fudge (and other sticky ...) 18 Just ChiUin' 21, The Un-eun~led team 10 Malicious Prosecution 21, Green Eggs and Gov't 
Cheese 11 Low-Denshy Wolf Ball 21, Pass The Beernuts II 16 Dogs In Heat II 21, Cash Money Crew 10 
The Round of 32 Wedneaday'a Schedule 

Stepan  One  
4 :00  Malicious Prosecution  
vs.  Low-Denshy WoW Bait  
4:45  Just Chlllln'  
vs.  Dogs In Heat II  
5:30  Tequila White Lightning XI  
vs.  NO's Most Wanted  
6:15  Bridget's  
VB.  Shamma Lamma Ding Dong  
Stepan  Two  
4 :00  Gauchos  
vs.  The Real Fab Five  
4:45  Moloko and Ultravlolence  
vs.  L Train  
5 :30  Crime Dogs  
vs.  Common's Club  
6:15  All The President's Men  
VB.  The Good, The Bad and The Laundry  
Stepan  Five  
4 :00  Ebony Side of the Dome  
vs.  Tommy's Tavern  
4 :45  Fighting Kernals  
vs.  Wh~e Men Can't JuiJ1)  
5:30  McCormick's  
vs.  Men Who Love Fermented Grain  
6:15  Pale Riders  
VB.  Shoot or Get OH  
Stepan  Six  
4 :oo  Blackjack  
vs.  Bitter  
4:45  Drive By Shooting  
vs.  Word To Your Mother II  
5:30  Jimmy Chitwood and the Picket  
Fence  
vs.  Salubrious-n-Callipigous  
6:15  Frank Drebin and the Cocks  
vs.  Bittersweet  

FRIENDS DON'T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK 
COOPERS & LYBRAND 
congratulates the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduating Class of 1992 and is proud to welcome the following graduates who will be joining our Firm: 
BOSTON 

Therese Cotter Christopher Lucchetti Michael Pearl 
CHICAGO 

Amy Adamonis Thomas Allen Cheryl Barrett Jeffrey Bender Lisa Blair Miriam BraganzaLori Ciccone Paul ComptonKristine Gafvert William HarringtonJoseph Johnson Russell Jones Christa Ruebenacker Timothy Stahl Todd StroupChristopher Weismantel Robert Wulf 
CINCINNATI 
Matt curoe Joanne Hoge 
CLEVELAND Doug Roof 

COLUMBUS Bradley BettingerJody Schlichting 
DETROIT Tim Barron 

LOS ANGELES Tracy Garrison 
Sean Kelly

Julie Sheridan 
NEW YORK 
Rod Foley 

PARSIPPANY Lynn KlunzingerAllen Lane Laura Sommerlad 
PHILADELPHIA Michael FolgiaChristopher May 
PRINCETON Peter DiGiovanni 
RICHMOND Julie Baron 
ST. LOUIS Melissa Bernardi 
SOUTH BEND Cynthia Berchem 


SolutionsIfor Business"" 

Wednesday, April 22, 1992 The Observer Page 17 
THE ACADEMIC CODE OF HONOR: A REPORT TO THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY 
While it is recognized that the faculty has the responsibility to establish academic requiren:1ents, !t...is the res · .of 
<+ students and faculty.~ .~tmv~ toa•··~oi:OULlJIJ.\:rli work CTheA:caaeifiit·ct>a~ ~f:Hono~ :::..:.~~~~)
·'*=~:m:'·· ·:,:;:=:~mM~r:·,,··.. ·· · ­
__--_-:·.--.·.·········;·;·:·:·:·:~::::r;~::;:=:;::}~~;;:;;:::;=:t:=>t::i:?~:::' . . . . 
This ad continues the practice begun last Honesty Committee hearings. Over the past three ofhearings have been heard'in tH~ four coll)l.~····~······~~···•·•·fi····••·• i·I''r'Ff;;;i).~i~l·~;:••••·:;;;.. 
confidentiality, only a summary bftije re 

1·fMMMl 
~~of Committee Hearin"s 
34 
• 
Kevin .. J 
..., ••• 

Sara Skali Jay Stone, Fisher Hall Jennifer Switzer, Off-Campus 
-

----~--------­
The Observer Wednesday, April 22, 1992 
Mirer selected 

> 
as Samaritan All-American 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer will be one of 11 Samaritan AII-Ameircan college football scholar-athletes honorl'd in the Phoenix area, 

May 9-11. at the 1Hth annual The Observer/John Bingham 

1 
Fiesta Bowl Spring Banquet, which is made possible through a grant from ThP Samaritan Foundation. 
MirPr and the other 10 Samaritan All-Americans wPre selectt>d by a panel of Phoenix­area and national sports media for exhibiting high standards of excellencP in academics, citi­zenship and athletics. 
Other 1992 Samaritan AII­Amt>ricans include San Diego State tailback Marshall Faulk. Arizona State split end Eric Guilford. Washington quarter­back Billy Joe Hobert, Syracuse wide recPiver Qadry Ismail. Florida State linebacker Marvin Jones. UCLA wide receiver Sean LaChapelle, Stanford tailback Glyn Milburn, Rice noseguard Matt Sign, Miami quarterback Gino Torretta and California tailback Russell White. 
The Fiesta Bowl Spring Banquet. which annually at­tracts 1,500 spectators to the Phoenix Civic Plaza, will feature Arizona State's new ht>ad football coach, Bruce Snyder. as keynote speaker. The Samaritan All-Americans will be interviewed at the Monday. May 11 Spring Banquet by TNT sportscaster Gary BendH. who is also a Fiesta Bowl Committee mPmbPr. 
While in the Phoenix area, each student-athlete will tape a public service announcement for the Boys and Girls Clubs of America. which will be dis­tributed nationally as part of the Fiesta Bowl's Youth DevelopmPnt Program. 
Please Recycle 

Notre Dame's Dan Bautch squares around to bunt in an April 12 matchup with Evansville. The Irish face Northwestern in Evanston tonight. 
Break 
continued from page 24 
five innings on the mound giving up seven hits and five runs which includes the four in the ninth inning. 
Notre Dame's six-game win streak started on Thursday afternoon with a 4-0 rain­shortened victory over Purdue. Once again masterful pitching was the key for the Irish. Notre Dame starter Tom Price (2-1) used his curveball to hold the Boilermakers to only one hit through the five innings of play. 
The Irish leaped to an early lead with lead-off hitter Greg Layson singling and Cory Mee, the second batter of the game, sending his third home run of the year sailing over the left­field wall. Notre Dame notched two more runs off of Purdue starter Jeff Isom in the second inning, thanks to a parade of Purdue errors. 
The weekend brought confer­ence play to South Bend as the Bulldogs cruised into town, but left with their tails between their legs after the Irish swept Butler in four straight games. In 36 innings of baseball, the hot Irish pitching staff allowed only five runs. 
AI Walania won the series opener 10-0 to notch his fourth straight complete game. The junior pitched a five-hitter while being backed up by 13 Irish hits. Paul Failla had a the seventh inning, but Notre Dame pulled out the 4-3 win. In the seventh frame, Counsell and Joe Binkiewicz drove in runs with doubles to even the score. The rally set up Greg Layson's game winning RBI off a double in the eighth inning which scored Dan Bautch. Reliever David Sinnes was the winning pitcher in the game. 
In the third game, Chris Michalak regained his form after a rough game against Illinois last week to pitch a one­hitter for the Irish. The junior hasn't given up an earned run in his last 29.7 innings on the mound. Sunday's game was his third shutout of the year. 
Butler also rebounded to hold Notre Dame scoreless on Ryan Fox's effort on the mound. Michalak and Fox shut down the respective hitters scoreless through seven innings. Then, the Irish scored on back-to­hack doubles from Craig Counsell and Eric Danapilis for the 1-0 victory. 
In the final game of the series. Craig Allen earned his first collegiate win with five in­nings of solid pitching. Notre Dame won the game 6-2 thanks to a balanced offense. The win brought Notre Dame's confer­ence record to a perfect 8-0. 
On Monday, the Irish crushed Indiana State 18-7 scoring runs in every inning but the fourth and fifth. Price turned in an­other solid effort, going eight innings while allowing 13 hits 
field day at the plate with ar-------------------------------=====...... 
double and a triple while Ed Hartwell and Dan Bautch con­tributed two RBls apiece. 
Game 2 was much closer with the Irish down 3-1 headed into 
IMAGINE: 
that you are headed for a new city
•
• with a new job ... 

•• . . . and you want to make contact with Notre Dame alumni 
•
• 

involved in community service . 
•

• Your Opportunity:
• • 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22
•
• 

9:00 P.M. 
_
.. 
•
•
• 

CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS
•
•
•

• Learn what 125 alumni clubs around the coun­try are doing for the illiterate, homeless and•••• •• hungry and what you can do to help. 
Meet with alumni volunteers who arc active in • 
their local clubs. 
•

• Refreshments will be provided. 
1/nn·rr.<ity n/ Nnru Dnnrt' 
Alumni 
• Association 
and six runs and striking out eight against the nationally­ranked Sycamores. 
Counsell and Failla produced for Notre Dame knocking in six and five RBis respectively. Failla contributed early in the game with four of his HBis coming in the first three in­nings. Counsell hit the only Irish homer of the game, a grand slam in the sixth off of Jason Thomas which put the Irish out of the Sycamore's reach. 
Notre Dame bashed Indiana State's pitching crew of Randy Keaffaber, Thomas, and Rick Forshee for a season high 19 hits including seven extra base hits. Six of the seven were dou­bles hit by Counsell, Binkiewicz, Mee, Failla, and Haas. 
Without a day to rest, the Irish take on Northwestern to­day in Evanston. The Wildcats are tied for last in the Big Ten and should not be too much trouble for the Irish with their recent pitching brilliance. Walania will probably be on the mound for Notre Dame. 

• 
Parties • Sales Meetings 

• 
Weddings 


• Plain Good Times 

• 
Reunions 



• Escape (No Phones, No TV) 
259-6080 ,Reg. Schedule 
Tues./Sun. 2·4·7-9 P.M. 
Available lor Summer Session? Caii•••Crew Persons Needed! Marine Ex erienc:e Nec:ess 
YOU BE THE COACH 
IT'S ANOTHER FIRST FOR IRISH BASEBALL: THE "YOU PICK THE LINEUP" CONTEST! 
Coach Pat Murphy wants your help! On Thursday, April 30, the nationally ranked Irish will take on Eastern Michigan at 3:00pm at Jake Kline Field. And~ get to pick the starting lineup! Just fill out the ballot and return it as indicated. Then be sure to come out to the game and see how~ lineup does! 
Include your name and you may be selected to throw out the first pitch!! 
Check one for each position . 
...............................................
. 

.lli s.s RF Robbie Birk _ Craig Counsell _ Eric Danapilis _Cory Mee Paul Failla Eddie Hartwell 
o· 'f-<
'Tl. 
·o

'Tl' 2B LF ',_l •,_l
R: ~ 
_ Greg Layson Paul Failla Matt Haas •-<(
;;;. •I:Q
_Robby Birk Steve Verduzco Bob Lisanti ',_l
t""''

o:l: :~
> . 

•S( l"'. 
l"' • IB CE DH 
Joe Binkiewicz Dan Bautch _Pat Leahy :tt 
-1. 

o. Rob Naticchia _ Mike Rooney Adam Maisano :o 
John Rushin _ Craig DeSensi 
Your name: 
Phone: 
............................................. 

Please return this ballot to: Baseball Lineup Contest Athletic Department 
JACC 


Notre Dame, IN 46556 

,~....~..... ••• .........A .... • • ·•·• • cw. ··,.w:........_.,. •..•.•~ •'"'•. -..... ,.........., .. ··-...... ·~--­
-' .1 • ' l>t• t \ I· _.,.,r~r,r-."1'''' 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
had three goals adding to senior captain Mike Sullivan's four. The numbers could have gotten even worse if coach Kevin Corrigan hadn't filled his lineup with reserves for the majority of the fourth quarter. 
Colley's six-goal weekend placed him within reach of the Notre Dame single season goal record. The Alamo, California, native has 36 goals, six behind the record of 42 set by Steve Linehan set in 1982. 
The Irish received one piece of discouraging news from the Denver game., as Chris Nelson was lost for the Ohio State contest. The senior captain was ejected from the Denver game for unsportsmanlike conduct, which carries a one­game suspension. 
Even with Nelson's absence, the Irish are high on their chances against the two Big Ten schools. 
"We feel pretty confident going into these two final games," said Sutton. :·we· basically had three steps to take to get the NCAA bid. Beating Air Force was the first step, and Michigan St. and Ohio St. are the next two." 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
Circulation Manager Circulation Drivers 
Must be available from lOam-lpm 
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 

Notre Dame's Tom O'Brien chases down an opponent in an early-season matchup. O'Brien and his teammates will face Michigan State and Ohio State this week to close the regular season. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

Get $JOO CASH BACK fro111 Hertz Penske Truck Rental. 
We'll give you up to $100 cash back when you rent a Hertz Penske truck. We've got everything you need to make your campus move easy-a modem, clean fleet. ..free unlimited mileage on one way moves... convenient coast-to-coast locations...a free moving guide...and all the accessories to get the job done. 
For reservations, check the Yellow Pages for the location nearest you, or call1-800-222-0277. 


r--------------------­
• 

1 leaving Campus? Up to $JOO CASH BACKI
I 
Hertz Penske is offering up to a $100 rebate on any one way move (rented in one city and returned to another). Effective April 1, 1992. All coupons must be submitted by July 31, 1992. The amount of the rebate will be based onI 10% of the time and mileage charges as listed on your truck rental agreement, up to a maximum of $100. 
I 
~----------------------------~----------­
~BS ____________________________________________
I Her~z
OIT________________________ S~H 
lll'____________I R8rrMA~HMD«I_______________________________________ 
PEII/SKE
RENTED IN-------------------RfTURNED m_______________ _ 
I Truck Rental 
Mail this coupon and a copy of your rental agreement to:I HERTZ PENSKE TRUCK RENTAL • P.O. BOX 391 • ROIJT'E 10 GREEN HIUS • READING, PA 19603 • Boo-222-0277 
I . ND/413 
--;.;r;~iii.7 -.•..-·. -----.~~~~~-~""';;''!ft1if~tliJt~ ;~·····~··~'4Yii··· 
I 
I I I I I I I I
,_1 

•sports Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o 
LaFortune; Pleasei,submit your name; brief, telephone number. and the dates the brief is to run. 
IIAntostalHotshot/ 3:.point contest on Wednesday at 3 p.m. at Bookstore Courts. Just bring $1 to courts to participate. 
lllrish ·Guard informational meeting for anyone interested in trying out next ye~r will.~e Qn Tuesday at 5 p.m. in LaFortune's TV lounge. Questions? Call283·2449. 
•Earth 
Blade 1992 c.onsists of 3K and JOK in-line skating {rollarblade) races on Riverside Drive near Pinhook Park. The $18 registration fee goes to the Indiana Conservation Society. Questions? Call Outpost Sports at 259-1000. 

•NO 
ROTCwill sponsor the 2nd annual Tri·MUitary run for charity ol\ Friday at 5 p.m. All are welcome to participate. Registration will be held on the day of the race beginning at 4 p.m. behind the Security Building. The cost is $8 per runner with proceeds going to the Special Olympics. 

•Notre 
Dame physician Steve Simons was among the estimated 10,000 participants in the 96th annual Boston Marathon. Simons flnisl:ted the 26.3 mile race in 2:59. Simons said Terry wOpey'' McGuire also ran the race. 


Only you can prevent forest fires 

BRING YOUR BOXES TO US AND SAVE $$$ 
r(\.~1 

e. o\J 
,..\)9~ 
~~G ~-tC:'f)61S 

.e..~\()9  'a,1 ~  CALL AND COMPARE  
_,  PRICES  
MON • SAT 9:00 • 5:00  

ALL MAJOR CREDIT CARDS AND PERSONAL 
CHECKS ACCEPTED UNIVERSITY CENTER DIRECTLY BEHIND JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S ADJACENT TO MACRI'S DELl 
page 20 The Observer 
Irish end weekend early 
54-hole Purdue tourney shortened 
The Observer/Joh n Bingham 
Finding the passing lane 

Notre Dame students enjoy the warm weather while watching and playing Bookstore Basketball at Stepan Center. 
By MIKE HOBBES 
Sports Writer 

The Irish women's golf team competed in a rain-shortened Purdue Invitational over Easter break. 
Scheduled to play 54 holes over two days. the tournament was shortened due to torrential downpours that instead re­sulted in a 36-hole tournament. 
The Irish were led by Kathy Phares who played solidly throughout the tournament. 
"Kathy is a real consistent player. She is always shooting approximately 80 every time out on the course," said Irish coach Tom Hanlon. 
Unfortunately for Notre Dame, the weather caused some major obstacles that were not to be overcome. 
"We were having to wait to play while the greens-keepers squeegeed the greens," said Hanlon. "The rain really af­fected the putting of some of our players and therefore their total score." 
The Irish are searching for a more consistent score at the fourth position to help boost their chance at moving up in 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 

is NOW accepting applications for the FALL BREAK 1992 
EXTERN PROGRAM 
IN ONE WEEK ACCOMPLISH THE FOLLOWING: 
• Gain valuable work experience 
• 
Network with alumni in your discipline 

• 
Explore the work environment first-hand 


Coordinated by the STUDEI\T ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARGJ, the program matches alumni sponsors with interested Notre Dame students whose education and career goals parallel those of the sponsor. STUDENTS fROM ALL DISCIPLINES!\!,\ Y APPLY! 
Applications amilahle at 
Career and Placement Sen-ices and Alumni Association Office (201 Main Bldg.) Applications due in Alumni Office by May 8. f)•.i:.:\tJons? Contact Mauricio Valdes at #1692 or Frances Shavers at 23')~6()~)0. 
the final standings for their fu­ture tournaments. 
"We are normally able to have three golfers shoot in the low 80s, but we really need that fourth score to increase our chance at knocking off some of the bigger teams in the tournaments," said Hanlon. "Once we start consistently doing that we will be able to compete move past many of the teams that used to beat us." 
For the weekend, the Irish finished eleventh of seventeen in .a tournament that was won by Iowa State. 
Notre Dame plays in the 1992 Lady Buckeye Spring Invitational, hosted by Ohio State University, this weekend.. 
Wednesday, April22, 1992 
lue and old 
to clash on 
Saturday 
Observer Staff Report 

The 62nd annual Blue-Gold game will kick otT at 1:30 p.m. Saturday, April 25 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Tickets are free to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with identification. 
The Blue-Gold Game is the final intrasquad scrimmage o the 29-day Irish spring football practice session. 
Scrimmage rosters will be announced Thursday afternoon. 
Watch for a special Observer pullout on Friday. April 24. 
The Post Office lost it, but we still wanted to surprise you!!! 
Happy Belated April 4 Birthday, 
Renelle! 
Love, 
Mom&Dad 

OURGOAL 
ISTO HELP YOU REACH YOURS. 
Cleveland..Marshall College of Law 
Request our catalogue for information about our program and admission requirements. We'll also send you an application. Just complete the information below. 
Name ________________ 
Address-------------Phone 
City, State, Zip __ 
Undcrgrad. Schlxll 

Major ----------Graduation Date ___ 
Return to: 
The Office of Admissions, Cleveland-Marshall College of Law 1801 Euclid Avenue, LB 111 Cleveland State University, Cleveland, Ohio 44115 
U..W-ofN-• 0... Alumni

114> csuAssociation 
No Limits. 
-.......... --. . Wednesday, April 22, 1992 The ObserJer page 21 
Irish softball disappointed after losses and rainout 

The Observer/Jake Peters Senior catcher Amy Folsom gloves a pitch from Staci Alford. Notre Dame's softball team was rained out Monday, but will get back into action with a doubleheader with Northeastern Thursday night. 
Upcoming Events 
Lectures and Seminars The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
WEDNESDAY. APRIL 2Z 
7:30 p.m. KANAN M. MAKIY A, Commentator on contemporary Iraqi Politics, Author of Republic of Fear. Architect, "TilE POLmcs OF MONUMENTALITY IN IRAQ: FROM POWER TO MOURNING." Cosponsored with the School of Architecture. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
tHURSDAY. APRIL 23. 
12:15 p.m. ·DR. ROBERT MROZlEWICZ, Polish Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations, "TRIANGLE FOREIGN POUCIES: POUSH, HUNGARIAN, AND CZECHOSLOVAKIAN SECURITY IN A POST ..SOVIET WORLD." Cosponsored with the Department of History and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (ISLA). Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
4:15p.m.-IGNACIO WALKER, Director, Political Relations, General 
Secretariat of the Presidency, Chile, "DEMOCRATIC CONSOLIDATION 
IN CIDLE. • Chairperson: Rev. William Lewers, C. S.C., Director, Center 
for Civil and Human Rights. Cosponsored with the Center for Civil and 
Human Rights and the Kellogg Institute. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame softball team (23-19) was disappointed that Monday's game at Butler got rained out. 
Not only did it waste a trip to Indy, but it also wiped out an opportunity to play one of their best conference opponents. 
Furthermore, the Irish were anxious to get back on the win­ning track and forget last Thursday's two losses against visiting DePaul. 
In both games, DePaul (17­
14) jumped ahead in the first frame and proceeded to shut out the Irish offense for the entire game. 
In the first game, DePaul's Amy Benson led off with a sin­gle off Notre Dame sophomore Carrie Miller and stole second base. Senior catcher Kelly Kavanaugh then knocked her in. 
That was all the Demons would need, as sophomore Christy Roode (3-2) and Kim Blackmore shut down the Irish on three hits and two walks, as only one runner reached second base. 
Miller's fine effort was squandered. She allowed just one more hit, that in the third, and a walk in the fifth, as her record dropped to 8-5. 
The second game was a mir­ror of the first, as shortstop Jenny Bruno's RBI single scored Missy Nowak and Kavanaugh, both of whom drew walks off Staci Alford. The Irish junior hurler would allow only one more single, that to Bruno, and no walks the rest of the game, but still took the hard-luck loss to also dip to 7-6. 
Meanwhile, DePaul's Susanne Wiegner scattered three hits, escaping trouble in the third and seventh, when center fielder Meg Rievers preserved the victory by snaring a wallop by pinch-hitter Casey McMurray. 
On the season, opponents have outscored the Irish 24-15 in the first inning, by far the biggest total of any inning. 
DePaul, the most frequent opponent in Notre Dame's four­year history, hold a 13-4 edge in the series. The two meet again for two in Chicago on April 30th. 
Sweet, Bennett picked in USBL; Rivers leads Catbirds to seventh 
Observer Staff Report 
The United States Basketball League's Philadelphia Spirit picked up Notre Dame's Texas Express Tuesday, choosing Irish guards Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett with its second­and third-round picks, respectively. 
Sweet was the seventeenth overall pick of the annual USBL draft, held in Jacksonville, Fla. Bennett, the seventh pick of the third round, was the 25th overall selection. 
The Spirit, the defending USBL champions, were excited about their picks Tuesday. 
"We're very pleased with our draft choices," said Spirit vice­president and general manager Jay Liberti. "Before the draft, we made a list of players we felt could help our team, and we were able to draft six of the top eight players from that list." 
The USBL is one of several domestic leagues where players can try to impress NBA scouts in an effort to make the cut in the more prestigious league. 
LA CROSSE, Wis. -Former Irish star David Rivers scored 40 points to lead the LaCrosse Catbirds to a 125-120 victory Monday night over the Rapid City Thrillers, knotting the Continental Basketball Association championship series at three games apiece. 
The final game is at LaCrosse tonight. 
FRIDAY. APRIL 24 12:00 noon • DR. WU NINGKUN, Chinese dissident and retired Professor of English at the Institute of International Relations in Beijing, China. "FORTY TURBULENT YEARS IN CIDNA: 1951-1991." Hesburgh Center Auditorium MONDAY. APRIL 27 12:30-2:00 p.m. -DICK RINGLER, Professor of English and Scandinavian Studies, University of Wisconsin-Madison, ·wAR, PEACE AND THE ARTS, • a multi-media presentation using slides, readings from literature, and citations from recordings of classical music. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 7:30 p.m. -DICK RINGLER, "REQUIEM FOR A CITY: THE BOMBING OF DRESDEN, FEBRUARY, 1945," an audiovisual presentation exploring the cognitive and affective dimensions of what Simone Wei! has called "the greatest disaster that can befall human beings, the destruction of a city." A reception will be held in the Great Hall immediately following the presentation. Hesburgh Center Auditorium  This summer, the place to be is /USB! 1992 SUMMER SESSIONS INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTH BEND Session I: May 18-June 29 (Register May 13-14) Session II: July 6-Aug. 14 (Register June 30-July 1) For schedules and information on requirements for guest students, contact !USB Admissions Office, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., P.O. Box 7111, South Bend, IN 46634 (phone 219-2374455) as soon as possible. lltNI(IJII,tlu,. ,,,., ~~ECD•vvo1@1 I Make your summe-r count  
SMC We A1re 1Fta1mliliy Wee1k continues... Party All Over The World 8-12 Tonight at Dalloway's--Folkdancing & Spanish Guitar  

page 22 

Bookstore field narrows to final 32 in action Tuesday 
BY MARK MCGRATH Sports Writer 
Bookstore Basketball action continued Tuesday, as the field of 64 was narrowed to 32 in the tournament's final week. 
Perennial powers Tequila White Lightning, Malicious Prosecution and Gauchos continued to strut their stuff, winning handily. 
Pete DiGiovanni of the Gauehos sprained his ankle during the game. Despite the fact that the Gauchos are playing with DiGiovanni hurt, the Gauchos still cruised to a 21-9 victory. 
The team was led by Rob Vazquez, a Bookstore All-Star, who scored 12 points. 
"I think we played real well even though Pete was hurt," said Vazquez. "The rest of the team was able to step up the play. I was really pleased to see it. Jerome (Hepplemann) played an outstanding game defensively while Dave (Bose) and Mike (Toner) played well on both sides of the ball." 
The Gauchos will next face 
The Real Fab Five, winners 21­
16 over The Hawk Will Never 
Die, yesterday. 
"Tomorrow will be our 
toughest game so far," added 
Vazquez. "Those guys (The Real 
Fab Five) crash the boards re­
ally hard." 

While Gauchos were winning 
handily. Ebony Side of the 
Dome. the skeleton of last 
year's champion, Adworks, 
cruised to a 21-12 win over 
Touch My Monkey. 

"Every game we are playing 
better," said Greg Midgett, who 
scored 8 points for Ebony yes­terday. "We had never really played together, so we are pro­gressing every game." 
Midgett and Marlon Crook (1 0 pts) are the only two on Ebony Side of the Dome players from last year's champs, Adworks. 
"Tomorrow will be a tougher game," said Midgett. "The other team (Tommy's Tavern) is a lot bigger, so we will have to rely on our quickness in order to win." 
Highly-touted Bridget's con­tinued to roll, crushing 21-Gun Salute, 21-8. Bridget's was led by John Carretta with 9 points and Ed Larkin, who scored 7. 
"We have been playing real well," commented Carretta. "We really haven't played any tough teams, so I'm hoping we will face a tougher team. 
"Last year, I made it to the final eight," said Carretta. "As long as we play the way we want to, I think we can win it all." 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992
The Observer 

Women's track team travels south 
Two-mile relay team finishes third at Kansas Relays 

Platform Of Dissent: ND still the
The REAL State of the Union Campus Groups Speak Out: greatest-
Women United for Justice and Peace • World Peace Action Group • Democratic Socialists of Happy America • College Democrats • NAACP • Students for Environmental Action • Christian '19' Democratic Socialists 
Open Mike-Come voice your opinion!! 
Janet! 
Love, Dad, Mom, Jack 
By JOSEF EVANS Sports Writer 

It was a mixed bag of results for the Notre Dame women's track team over break, as they fielded athletes in three events at the Kansas Relays in Lawrence. 
Tops among the performances of the weekend was that of the two-mile relay team, which finished· third. The team's :run produced a surprisingly strong time of 
9:20.9. Still, the women competing were left with a twinge of disappointment when the weather took a turn for the 
worse. 

"We did really well, but the 
rain just started pouring down 
during my (part of the) race. It 
was a real problem." noted 
Becky Alfieri, who ran the last · 
leg of the relay. The weather has been a 
Lisa Gorski 

recurring problem for the women, who have been faced with less-than-ideal conditions on many occasions in the outdoor season. 
"It was cold at North Carolina (for the Raleigh Relays), it was raining this past weekend. We haven't gotten the weather we would like at all this season." added Alfieri. 
The other two events featured a number of athletes who were a bit out of their element. In the 1500-meter race, Lisa Gorski, normally a longer distance runner, posted a middle-of-the-pack seventh­plaee time of 4:44.05. She was unavailable for comment, but teammates n~ported tliat she was very pleased with the effort, a personal record in the event. 

The distance relay runners. on the other hand, were not quite as happy with their finish, a disappointing seventh out of nine. They ran to a time of 12:26.45, 44 seconds behind the winning team from Barton Community College. 
"It's not what we were used 
to," said team captain and 
distance relay runner Diana 
Bradley. "We'd never run it 
before. Most of (the relay 
team) were running shorter 
distances than usual . " 

~·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
I

. ­
I

1s-t ~nnu ..........1.1 -I 

L.~-~-~-~-~~~~~-~-~-~-J·~·~~~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-l-l•l•l•l•l•l•l•l•l•l•l•
t • -• -... -------.----------• • _. ·-&.• • • ... • •-~A z.• ~~.;, ~ ..t...l .I~~ A ~ t ~ z z;: :t ~ .~ :t :r ~ :t ~ • .'"!! :: •"' :r :" .• f' :-:"" :-~ ;-:-r :' j
-------------------···-----------------·----~---·---~---------------------------·---.I 

---------------------------------~-----------------------~ 
Today 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 page 23 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 
...,_\...,..Jt-ll_u_r----='D,........a_s_""_......J.._..::_~ r====:::::====;------:rToo Bf\P, sss uc KE. IZ 13ur ',...----..--­
N v 'h~ c-\ )\.,...::> NO 01-l€. iS ¥{R£STLIN<:. THI5
arr 
MONEY AWA'/ FROM MG 
BILL WATTERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
TAKE IT BKK.! 
GoSii,CALIJ\1'1, 0\\ NO, ITS I'!A. Nl:ciJEI< 
Tt\E 0\RI TRliE.' I'IA. Gt.m~ MI\RR\tD! CQI/cRII'-lG 'IO'J'?­A LO'IIt: NEVER! F'EA\\lQ.ES IS 1-\AGNE\.' A giG 
IIA.PR()\Jt.l<'lt.~l. 

©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-19 
ACROSS 50 Draw out 14 Tendency to turn 51 Airport abbrevi-toward 1 Actual, in law ation 21 Beginning for band (2 wds.} 52 Famous newspaper or concert 8 Harmonic relation-publisher 24 Ethiopian river ship 55 German preposition 25 Four----­15 Characterizing 56 Spanish affirmative (home runs}THE FAR SIDE GARY LAHSON SPIN JOHN MONKS phrase 57 Severity 26 Receives from a 16 That which sends 58 Roman 51 source 
4·22 
out 59 Recorded in legend 27 ----la la 17 Omen 63 Cut of meat 29 ----Corps 18 Of certain mixed 67 Woody plant 32 Bitter 
ancestry (2 wds.} 34 Suffix: native of 19 Type of current 68 Lunar phenomenon 36 "----1 ive and 20 Fountain drinks 69 Plants again breathe" 22 At bat 70 Sonnet parts 39 Ironer 23 Greek letter 40 Give a new name to 25 Stuck in mud DOWN 41 "Death-Salesman" 27 Part of TNT 42 Makes fun of 28 City in Florida 1 Takes off 43 Removes from office 30 Invite 2 Of a certain period 44 Latin possessive 31 Makes money 3 Cone-bearing tree 45 Eye doctor 33 Type of liquor 4 Lawyer (abbr.} 46 Removes impurities 
(2 wds.} 5----Guevara 49 Fix, as a fight 35 Ridicule device 6 Jittery 53 Belief 37 Undercover man 7 Footstool 54 Soprano Leontyne
(abbr.} 8 Comments 60 Hindu mystic words 38 Sidney Poitier role 9 Entertain 61 66 or 1 (abbr.} 39 Advance 10 Prefix: hair 62 Anger43 Arithmetic term 11 School organization 64 Literary monogram 47 Allude 12 Mel of baseball 65 Call. course 48 "Able was I-... " 13 Election votes 66 Poetic verb 
"Dang! That dog's been up on the sofa again, Hank­I just know it!" 
MENU  CAMPUS  
Wednesday 4 p.m. "Late Cenozoic Mammals of Central Mexico," Wade Miller, Brigham Young University. Sponsored by Civil Engineering. Room 325, Cushing Hall. 4:15 p.m. "Peasant Movements in the Andes," Kevin Healy, Inter-America Foundation. Sponsored by GALA(Graduate Association for Latin American Studies). Kellogg Auditorium. 4:30 p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar, "Polymerase Chain Reaction for Environmental Monitoring," Ronald Atlas, University of Louisville. Sponsored by Biological Sciences. Room 283, Galvin Life Science Center. 7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting. Room 104, Center for Continuing Education.  
Notre Dame Veal Parmesan Grinder Chicken and Dumplings Baked Pollack Jardiniere Saint Mary's Roast Turkey French Fried Clam Strips Beef Stew  

----===============================~==----·~---~·--·------LECTURES  
Wednesday 3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Asymptotic Methods for Sheet Forming," Robert Johnson, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. Sponsore~ by Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. 4:15 p.m. "Harvesting Discontent: An Analysis of Indigenous Social Movements in the Andes Today," Kevin John Healy, Inter-American Foundation(IAF). Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Graduate Association of Latin America (GALA). Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. 7 p.m. Lecture by Professor Jaime Bellalta. Sponsored by the School of Architecture and the Notre Dame Chapter of AlAS. 7:30 p.m. "The Politics of .Monumentality in Iraq: From Power to Mourning," Kanan Makiya, commentator and author. Sponsored by Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and School of Architecture. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. 7:30 p.m. "Science Technology and the Environment," Ronald Atlas, consultant to Exxon on the Valdez disaster, David Lodge and Charles Kulpa of Biological Sciences. Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune.  

.. -----·· --­
NEO•GEO Campus Challenge April 21-24, at Theodores llam to 6pm The Quest for the Crown 
Golf Tournament, Tricycle Race, Tug of War 
SMC Picnic April 23, at SMC 4:30 pm to 6:30 pm 
Pasta Eating Contest, Jello Wrestling, Canoe Races 
ReCeSs April 24, at Stepan Center 9pm to 12 am 
Root Beer Chugging, Finger Painting, Pie Eating 

> 
HOGSTOCK April 25, at Stepan Field 11 am to 2pm
APRIL 21-26 

Mud Pits, Picnic, Campus Bands
THE TIME HAS COME 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 



The Observer/Jake Peters Irish pitcher AI Walania tosses his curve in the Notre Dame bullpen. Walania, who pitched a five-hit shutout in his last start, will likely be on the hill tonight for the Irish. 
Irish lacrosse squad ~ moves toward NCAAs 
... 
'L 
page 24 

Sports 
Wednesday, April 22, 1992 

to be country-wide and they need to be made soon. With the greenhouse effect, the springs aren't going to get any better. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
Bookstore narrows field see page 22 
Men 's track falters in Kansas see page 15 
Softball loses, rains out see page 21 
Women's track enjoys break see page22 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team completed a successful two-game swing through Colorado, topping both Air Force and Denver. 
The pair of wins places the Irish two games from an NCAA tournament bid. The Irish must beat both Ohio State and Michigan State to capture the west regional bid, which carries a twelfth seed. 
Notre Dame was put into that position after dropping both Colorado schools in dominating fashion. 
Against the Falcons, Robby Snyder netted a 
team-high four goals and Randy Colley continued his barrage on Notre Dame's scoring records, earning a hat trick. Brian Mayglothling also tallyed three goals from his midfield position. Willie Sutton had a team-high three assists. 

"In the Air Force game we started off a little slow, but we showed a lot of poise in pulling it out in the fourth quarter," states Sutton. "The Denver game was just a time for us to rest and have some fun." 
The Irish gave Denver more fun then they could imagine, amasing 25 goals to Denver's four. The usual names filled the scoring column. Colley 
see NCAA! page 19 

The Observer/John Bingham Notre Dame's Tom Carroll scoops up the ball in an early season game with Denison. Carroll had two goals in a 25-4 win over Denver. 





