
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 11 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bomberger quits SUB f Sculptures citing political reasons ignite debate 
By DAVID KINNEY he said. "He is not willing to 

on campus

News Editor learn how SUB works. And that's just appalling." 
By AMY GREENWOOD

Matthew Bomberger, director McCarthy said that although of programming of the Student he is currently involved in the Saint Mary's News Editor Union Board (SUB), resigned campaigns of three candidates Friday, citing incompetent and for the Minnesota state legisla­Although Marcia Kaplan's politicized leadership in SUB ture, the board manager is his controversial sculptures have 
been removed from Le Mans
and student activities. primary responsibility. 
Hall lawn, the pieces continue ·
In a letter, Bomberger He admitted that he is per­charged that the appointment sonally interested in certain to evoke questions about art of Board Manager Pat McCarthy programs, including a lecture exhibition on Saint Mary's was politically motivated and series, "but in no way did I say President's letter I page 3 
• 

that McCarthy has no wish to that I was not interested in campus.
be involved in the activities of other programming." 
Her work, "Untitled," will be
SUB. Bomberger also criticized the 
selection of McCarthy because placed in the Moreau Galleries
Bomberger said that Mc­Carthy was appointed in return of his lack of practical experi­for the duration of the exhibi­for his services as campaign ence in the workings of SUB or tion which began Friday and 
runs until Oct. 2.

manager for Student Body programming in general. President Greg Butrus and to But Butrus said McCarthy has According to Doug Tyler, 
chairman of the art depart­
serve as a loyal vote on Student experience in outside pro­ment, the senior officers of the Senate. gramming and that the nomi­college instructed him to re­
"I simply don't think that is nating committee was seeking the case," said McCarthy. "This fresh, aggressive leadership for move the sculpture from the 
grounds.

claim that I'm Butrus' lap-dog SUB. is ridiculous." McCarthy defended his· pro­"They were not opposed to Butrus and McCarthy agreed gramming experience, citing his moving the work to another lo­
cation, but they wanted it to be
that it is important to have a organization of a ten-city in a more discreet area," Tyler 
good relationship between SUB whistle-stop train tour for Sen. and student government. But Allen Durenberger, R-Minn. "I said. 
Saint Mary's President
McCarthy said this does not haven't done it on campus, but William Hickey said that themean that he will be supporting that's not a handicap," he damage was the main motiva­Butrus on every decision. added. 
According to Bomberger, Butrus and McCarthy pointed tion for the administration's re­sponse.
McCarthy told him that he has to early successes of SUB, in­no interest in SUB program­cluding the booming sales of "If there had been no damage 
to the work, we would have
ming, except political lectures, "The Shirt," the near sell-out and that he is more interested show by They Might Be Giants raised the issue anyway be­in operating under budget. this Thursday and the invitation cause of the quick and negative 
"What I found was that Mc­of columnists Fred Barnes and response of a number of stu-Carthy is true to what he said," see SUB I page 4 see ART I page 3 
Bush and Clinton plans both faulted by health journal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­a neat ideological box other when they say his administra­was part of the disabilities act. wrote, in preparation for an dent Bush has failed to confront than a more activist role for the tion has ignored the more per­aggressive second-term drive. rises in health care costs and federal government," they said plexing-and expensive-prob­Bush jettisoned a 1988 cam­Cathy Tokarski and Melissa the ranks of the uninsured in the Sept.-Oct. issue of their lems of the uninsured and paign promise to let the unin­Jee, two other journal editors, while the only sure thing in Bill magazine. escalating health care costs," sured purchase coverage said Clinton's main achieve­Clinton's reform plan is a bigger Editor-in-chief Richard Sorian Sorian wrote. He said it took through Medicaid and opted in­ments in Arkansas have been government role, says an said the Bush administration Bush three years to put to­stead for a series of studies on creating a networlc of rural analysis released Saturday. "has been behind some gether a health reform proposal reform, Sorian noted. clinics; expanding Medicaid to 
Bush's overall record was progress in health care" start­"and even then the core parts of cover many more poor women rated as mixed by editors of the ing with the 1990 Americans it were never sent to Capitol The plan that emerged calls and children; and setting up 20 Journal of American Health Pol­with Disabilities Act. Hill." for $35 billion in federal tax health and family-planning icy. Clinton, the Democratic He said Bush also has Sorian said that while Bush credits to help the poor buy clinics in elementary and sec­presidential nominee, was pumped money into disease and touts increased spending for coverage, along with insurance ondary schools. praised for steps he has taken disability prevention programs, AIDS on his watch, most of the and malpractice reforms aimed as governor of Arkansas. including immunization and victims were entitled to the ex­at bringing down costs. Gail The state infant mortality rate 
The editors called Clinton's screening for lead poisoning tra money such as Medicaid, Wilensky, Bush's health adviser, dropped from 12.5 deaths per vague national reform plan an and cancer; community and Medicare and Social Security told Sorian the plan could be 1 ,000 live births in 1980 to 9.3 "attempt to meld heavy-handed migrant health centers that disability benefits. He said Bush financed without tax hikes. in 1990 and some statistics regulation with a half-hearted serve the poor, and the National did push hard for a federal Administration officials are try­show slowing of the teen preg­nod at market competition." Health Service Corps. statute barring discrimination ing to line up support from nancy rate, Tokarski and Jee What he wants "does not fit into "But Bush's critics are right against people with the virus. It conservative Democrats, Sorian report. 

ND student found dead; suicide is suspected 
By JULIE BARRETT found near the body, but the 
Assistant News Editor actual cause of death has not been released. said Cindy Scott. nassistant director of public re­
A Notre Dame graduate stu­lations at Notre Dame. There dent was found dead from an was no evidence of foul play apparent suicide Saturday in and suicide is suspected. his room at Fischer Graduate Residences, according to Secu­Trautman was working on his 
rity reports. Ph.D. in mathematics at the time of his death and was de­
Krzysztof Trautman, 26, a scribed by his advisor, William third year graduate student in Dwyer, a professor in mathe­mathematics from Warsaw, matics at Notre Dame, as being Poland. was found by his a "very bright student who stu­roommate at 9:45 p.m. Traut­dent who seemed to keep to man's body was taken to himself." Memorial Hospital and exam­ined by the county deputy Trautman's parents who are coroner. in Warsaw have been notified of 
his death. Memorial arrange­

Live eth · · · · 
clubhou~~c a~~~fn;sJ:;.~.f the International Folk Dancing that takes place every Friday evening at the
A note and medication were ments are pending. 


~---~~----~~-.---------------­
page 2 Monday, September 7, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Art display leaves SMC scandalized 
Baby's got back! 
Sir Mix-A-Lot may hav· been able to attain top o the chart stardom singin praises of robus derrieres, but artist Mar cia Kaplan couldn't hav 


been  lower  on  SMC':o  
Worst Taste List last week  Anna Marie  
The  four  Untitled  Tabor  
sculptures  on  LeMans  Saint Mary's Editor  

lawn prompted a swift, fierce reaction from the student body. Shock. "What are giant testicles doing in front of LeMans?" I asked Kathy in disbelief. She half-laughed and said, "I think they're supposed to be butts, or breasts, or..." 
We concluded it must be some kind of re­volting joke. WHY? We know what we look like and did not appreciate stumbling upon larger­than-life versions of our parts. Are women not already subjected to enough exploitation in all other forms of media? The art display certainly didn't give us anything new to ponder about our bodies that we haven't been forced to before. 
Insult. Recall the old Maidenform adver­tisement with a series of pictures of women smooshed, bound and pushed into restrictive undergarments. The minor controversy that arose from the ad is that although the hook hinted at women being freed from the societal constraints, their heads were cut off. Busts, waists, and hips were the focus of the ad. 
At Saint Mary's, don't we capitalize on the truth that women are more than a mere collection of parts. Why, then, an art display that endorses such thinking? 
I like art. Bruno Schlesinger, SMC art professor, defines art as a beautiful creation and beauty as what is pleasing to the eye. I have yet to hear about anyone commenting on the Unmentionables "Oh, how lovely!" or even "Oh, how interesting." 
If we non-art majors were to see the display and appreciate it as it was intended to be taken, how about a little education or warning? Even an ad in The Observer: Attention SMC, gargantuan breasts and buttocks will appear in front of LeMans tomorrow. Do not be offended by them-the artist will explain the display later this week. 
Too bad she wasn't invited before the art appeared. If we'd had the opportunity to be informed before or if Ms. Kaplan had given her talk earlier than last Friday, it may have been better received. 
To combat future problems and ensure appreciation of art displays, I suggest more thoughtful placement. Moreau Gallery is where most art appears. Ms. Kaplan's display might have been better received in this discreet setting instead of hanging out on the lawn. 
Also, many visitors have been passing through lately, especially parents. For first-time visitors, what kind of impression did we leave? 
I will defend creative expression to the grave. If you purpose is to educate, enlighten, complain, beautify, whatever-there are places and means to accommodate you. What a shame these opportunities were lost because of poor 'udgement and planning. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Julie Barrett Jennifer Habrych  Production Cynthia Ehrhardt Melissa Cusack  
Sports Rolando de Aguiar  Systems Jon Halloran  
Viewpoint Terry Edwards  Accent Susan Marx  

Lab Tech 
Pat McHugh 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST 

Forecast for noon, Monday, September 7 Mostly sunny Monday with highs in

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL No vision of Virgin Mary reported 
•MARLBORO TOWNSHIP, N.J.-About 6,000 peo­ple who braved a steady rain hoping for a glimpse of the Virgin Mary in a man's back yard Sunday said they saw no sign of the mother of Christ. But some insisted they felt her presence. "I know she's here, I can feel that much," said Marie Fabio of Marlboro. Some others said they could smell a strong scent of roses. Joseph Januszkiewicz, who has said the Virgin Mary appears in his back yard on the first Sunday of every month, at­tended a 90-minute Rosary service in the yard Sunday before walking back inside his house. He didn't disclose if the Virgin Mary had appeared to him. Januszkiewicz, 54, has said the Virgin Mary began appearing daily in his back yard after he made a religious pilgrimage to Yugoslavia in late 1988. After 18 months, he said she told him she would appear only on the first Sunday of each month, after nightfall. 
Bill demands condom sales with liquor 
•ATLANTA -Liquor stores, restaurants, caterers and even the city's orchestra would be required to sell con­doms under a proposed ordinance aimed at stemming the spread of AIDS. The City Council's Public Safety Committee last week unanimously approved the mea-

OF INTEREST 
•Repertory/ 
Performance Dance workshop audi­tions will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Dance Studio in Regina Hall. Performance opportunities include "An Evening of Opera and Dance" and the "Madrigal Christ­mas Dinners." For more information call the dance office at 284-4643. 

•Recyclin' 
Irish organizational meeting will be held tonight at 7:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns for anyone interested. The meeting is mandatory for all dorm representatives. 

•NDCIB 
members interested in running for open 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•S TRADING September 4 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 156,353,850 -0.37 to 229.75 S&P COMPOSITE -0.90 to 417.08 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -10.27 to 3,281.93

UNCHANGED 
651 

GOLD 
+$2.80 to $343.60 oz 
SILVER +$0.056 to $3.73 oz 

the 80's. Chance of 
thunderstorms. Lows 
in the 60s. 

TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 58 42 Atlanta 84 67 Bogota 73 43 Boston 62 55 Cairo 91 73 Chicago 79 62 Cleveland 79 68 Dallas 89 69 Detroit 78 68 
Indianapolis 7970 

London 64 55 
Los Angeles 81 65 
Madrid 88 55 
Minneapolis 72 51 
Moscow 81 50 
Nashville 78 66 
New York 77 68 
Paris 66 59 
Philadelphia 84 68 
Rome 81 66 
Seattle 71 50 
South Bend 82 58
© 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Tokyo 90 79 
Washington, D.C. 85 66


{)~U
SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
sure, which would require all businesses licensed to serve liquor to sell condoms as well. Councilwoman Carolyn Long Banks, the measure's sponsor, said the idea arose from a similar proposal in Boston that was recently vetoed by Mayor Raymond Flynn. "We have been bombarded by our citizenry to do whatever we could legislatively to educate as well as help prevent the spread of AIDS," Banks said Saturday. The ordinance goes before the full council on Tuesday, but Banks said she plans to call a public hearing before a vote. 
Game called after loud noise heard 
•HOUSTON -Fans rushed for the gates of Rice Sta­dium and football players dove for cover Saturday night after hearing a noise that sounded like a gunshot during the Texas Southern-Prairie View game. At least seven people were treated for minor injuries, and officials ended the game with 13 minutes to play and Texas Southern ahead 35-0. Many in the crowd of 31,500 rushed onto the playing field. Players from both teams ran or fell flat on the field. 'Sgt. T. Stevens, watch commander for the Houston Police Department, said university police told him the noise apparently was a firecracker. "I've never seen anything like this before," said Southwestern Athletic Conference Commissioner James Frank, who attended the game. 
Board positions, interviews will be tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the ISO Lounge. Interns and other returning members are encouraged to apply. 
•Asian 
American Association will be holding a gen­eral meeting tonight at 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room located on the second floor of LaFortune. 

•Football 
concession stand operators must attend a food preparation training session in the Montgomery Theatre, located on the first floor of LaFortune, at 4 


p.m. on Sept. 8 or 9. This is a mandatory meeting for all those operating concession stands. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
_• In 1822: Brazil gained its independence from Portugal. 
• 
In 1901: Chinese officials signed a treaty, officially ending the Boxer Rebellion. 

• 
In 1966: Private Dennis Mora was sentenced to thre'e years of hard labor for refusing to serve in Vietnam. 

• 
In 1977: The United States and Panama signed two treaties that will give Panama control of the Panama Canal Zone beginning in 1999. 

• 
In 1989: The Indiana HMith Department declared a measles emergency at Notre Dame and ordered mass immunizations. 


--------------------~-----­
Monday, September 7, 1992 The Observer page 3 
"VVe have concerns about 

Marcia Kaplan's piece and the 
question of censorship, but we


Hickey apologizes to artist Art 

The following is a letter from to have you as a participant in Saint Mary's President William our visiting artists program. Hickey to artist Marcia Kq,plan, Ordinarily these are joyous oc­creator of the sculpture casions. and while I do hope "Untitledn that was removed your visit with us is a positive from Le Mans Hall lawn at one, obviously recent events Saint Mary's. will influence your impression 
of our community. We are delighted to welcome I want you to know that I you to Saint Mary's College and speak not just for myself but for 
Club Column 
SEPTEMBER 7,1992 

1) Club Coordination Council office hours are now posted outside the CCC office, 206 Lafortune. 
2) All clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for their first semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time, and remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
3) Toastmasters International communication and leadership club will hold its first meeting Tuesday in the Foster Room, 3rd floor Lafortune. Develop valuable speaking skills in the relaxed social atmosphere of your peers! Open to everyone. 
4) Campus Bible Fellowship meets Tuesday, 7 p.m. in 304 Haggar College Center at St. Mary's College. 
5)ND/SMC Italian Club will meet Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
6) Notre Dame Council on International Business Development Marketing Division will have its first meeting on Tuesday at 7:15 
p.m. in the ISO Lounge, 2nd floor of Lafortune. All new members are welcome to come and find out more about NDCIBD and returning members should attend. Any questions, contact Amy Mark at 283­4012. 
7) Salling Team organizational meeting for all present and new members. Meet at the boathouse at 6:30 on Monday. Any questions, call Rudy Bryce at 283-4280. 
8) Notre Dame soccer club will be holding try-outs on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 5 p.m. at the fields south of the J.A.C.C. lot, across from Edision Road. Bring a ball if possible. 
9) All clubs who were awarded concession stands: Packets may be picked up in the Student Activities Office, 315 Lafortune. Remember the mandatory training sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday at 4 p.m. in Montgomery Theater. 
10) The Cycling club will meet on Wednesday at 8:30 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. All are invited to attend. For more informa­tion, call James at 283-1599. 
11) The World Peace Action Group will hold its first meeting on Wednesday at the C.S.C. coffeehouse. All are welcome. 
All registered clubs may place SHORT announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN, which runs on Mondays in The Observer. Entries are due in the CCC office in 206 Lafortune by 5 p.m. on Thursday. 
this community when I extend to you our sincere regrets over the recent destruction of your sculpture. 
The hallmark of an academic environment is reasoned, if oc­casionally passionate, dis­course. On this and any cam­pus, the singularly unaccept­able response to an opposing viewpoint is literal physical de­struction of the object of debate. We do not burn books. No artists' work should be defaced. 
Clearly, your work, as have few others, reached the mem­bers of this community. As an artist, you must delight in the range of the opinions you elicited. I hope that is the memory you retain of Saint Mary's-a community, the vast majority of whom, responded both appropriately and with in­tensity to the presence of art in their environment. 
continued from page 1 
dents and staff members, " Hickey said. "We would have done so, however, with a more reasoned discussion." 
Some faculty members have asked other faculty and staff members to raise issues con­cerning campus art through a petition to the administration. The petition, displayed in Madeleva Hall and the library faculty lounge, calls on the ad­ministration to publicly con­demn the vandalism and de­velop a colloquium to discuss issues of art and censorship. 
Hickey addressed the damage to the sculpture in a letter that appears in today's Observer. 
According to Bob Hohl, the reference and instruction li­brarian at Cushwa-Leighton Li­brary. a group of faculty and staff member's have planned a panel discussion to address some of the issues that Kaplan's work has raised. 
will address a broader question about art that are becoming more and more evident on col­lege campuses," stated Hohl. 
Hohl will moderate the Sept. 15 colloquium. titled "Art and Censorship on Campus: What is the Problem?". which will be held at 6:30 p.m. in Carroll Au­ditorium. The discussion will feature four panelists: Ann Plamondon, chairwoman of the department of communication, dance, and theater • Ann Clark, chairwoman of the philosophy department, Father Austin Collins, professor of art at Notre Dame. and Susan Visser, executive director of the South Bend Regional Museum of Art. 
Kaplan's sculpture is not the only outdoor exhibit that has ignited controversy at Saint Mary's, according to Tyler. 
Tyler said that a work called the "Yo-Yo Man," by Penn State professor Richard Denis caused "a stir among a limited number of people." 
"Some people received a pro­abortion message from the 


sculpture and were upset by it," stated Tyler. "The problem last year led to a review process with the senior officers." 
According to Tyler, because the sculpture was an outdoor exhibit, the Art Department voluntarily sent slides of Ka­plan's works to Dorothy Feigl, the vice president and dean of faculty, in order to "avoid the previous problems." 
Feigl reviewed the slides and gave her approval for exhibition of Kaplan's work. 
"The problem is what you review is just a sampling of the artist's work, not what he or she plans to display," said Hickey. 
Hickey added that he feels the review process for outdoor ex­hibitions needs to be revamped. 

"It should be an opportunity for the administration to be part of the process, not a cour­tesy for us to review the works," continued Hickey. "They are being exhibited on campus community space, so we need to have an opportunity for other voices to be heard." 
While Tyler said that he has no problem with a review pro­cess in general. he does have some concerns. 

"I would have great difficulty about a review process without an opportunity for the appeal of a decision and the chance for professional input." 
Hickey said that he believes more people should be involved in the decisions concerning outdoor exhibits. 
He explained, "When you are making a decision that will af­fect the college constituents, those constituents should have a voice in that decision." 

• 
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best selection...over 1500frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to ass~ quality. 



QC&B. I 


WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'tOUR LIFE



'fl.tiCO 
American Heart &'a Association V

Ona 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rnres may 
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
4121 S. Michigan 5327 Grape Road 
save )0.1 money.

(U.S. 31 South) (1/2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall) 
Calll0raqoote9-5, 289-1993. 

291-9200 277-8121 
Office near camiXJS. 

----~ --------------------~­
page 4 
The Observer 

Monday, September 7, 1992 

SUB 
continued from page 1 
Jack Germond. 
McCarthy said he is reviewing 
all SUB's programming to see 
how they can be improved 
within a limited budget and re­
strictive University regulations. 
He plans to program several 
smaller events rather than one 
or two major events. 
Bomberger said that he is re­
signing because he refuses to 
do what he perceived to be the 
work of both director of pro­
gramming and board manager. 
"The sheer incompetence and 
politicizing of every situation by 
a few people who believe they 
have the right to implement 
their personal agenda ... 
prevents any healthy devel­
opment and function in SUB," 
he said. 
At issue is how the job of the 
board manager is perceived. 
While McCarthy said he views 
the position as one of guidance 
and leadership, Bomberger said 
the manager must work with 
the directors to manage the 
entire business of SUB. 
The board manager is usually nominated by a committee composed of three outgoing SUB members and two outgoing student government members, including the board manager. Since Board Manager Lynn Ramsey decided to seek a second term, her vote was given to the student govern­ment treasurer. 
Bomberger said that student government's majority vote on the nominating committee, coupled with last spring's con­flict between student govern­ment and SUB over the appro­priation of funds, led to the nomination of McCarthy. 
While Butrus, who lives with McCarthy, had no official voice in the decision, he collaborated with the committee in making the decision, according to Bomberger. 
Butrus said he had no such influence over the selection of McCarthy. "I knew who applied but I generally stayed away from the discussion," said Butrus. 
Neither Ellen Zahren, director of relations, nor Carrie Dwyer, 
Baptism 

controller, said they had any problems dealing with McCarthy. Zahren added that Bomberger did not make his concerns public. "He should have talked to the executive board," she said. 
Butrus said that the executive board wili be taking applica­tions during the week. The board must nominate a candi­date and the senate must then approve the person. 
Bomberger also accused Joe Cassidy, director of student ac­tivities, of being a divisive force between student groups. "I have seen (Cassidy) manipulate both student government and other student organizations to continually fight against each other." 
Citing Cassidy's suggestion that SUB become independent of student government and his 
The following are excerpts from an open letter from Matthew Bomberger explaining reasons for his resignation from the position of director of pro­gramming of the Student Union Board (SUB). 
...(SUB Board Manager) Pat McCarthy has neither the drive nor the interest to learn how SUB works and does not wish to involve himself in the activities of SUB. 
Normally, I would ignore such an individual, choosing instead to work around that person, but the underlying circumstances will not allow me to do this in good conscience. 
Pat McCarthy has openly said 



Bomberger explains decision 
request to investigate two established festivals for no ap­

Please 

parent reason, Bomberger said the director "has made stu­dents' lives more difficult." 

Recycle.

Cassidy would not comment on the allegations yesterday. 
GUATEMALEN & I NOlAN IMPORTS jewelry, clothing &accessories
' 

GREAT SELECTION GREAT PRICES!
' 

stoP bY SEPTEMBER 7-12 to took, buy, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. in Sorin Room
or visit•.. 
of LaFortune 

$1 Raffle tor $60 in merchandise. Proceeds go to St. Thomas Lutheran Churchtor project in Guatemala 
Irish Gardens 0pening Today! Openir.o DaySpecial Buy arose, oet one free! 
Also -come see our selection of cards and balloons! 
Delivery to N.D.IS.M.C. VISAIMC WelciiDe Mon -Sat 12:30 -5:30 Basement of Lafortune 283-4242 
You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 


Full Communion Confirmation 
in the Catholic Church 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ... 
~~A~~~~~mmn~ 
N<m~!:f'CS J])~cs ffi~Im~ ~®~ce 
Baptism For unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confinnation For Catholics interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation 
Questions? call or visit Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 239-5242 

that he has no interest in SUB programming except for the lecturers he would like to see brought in. However, the Board Manager must be concerned with all aspects of SUB of every description. He must work with the Directors of the Board to manage the entire business of SUB. 
How does such a person get the job of SUB Board Manager? I have been told frankly that this was a political appointment for Pat McCarthy for his ser­vices as Greg Butrus' Campaign Manager (and roommate). The nominations committee knew that Pat had no interest in the works of SUB but was a loyal vote on the Student Senate for Greg Butrus. 
Their problem, then, would be to find someone who would do the work of the Board Man­ager without any of the power or control over SUB. This is ap­parently where I came in. With my three years of experience in SUB and general programming, they assumed I could hold together SUB and do the job of both director of programming while picking up the slack for Pat. 
I did this unquestionably at first, but I refuse to break my back for incompetent, politically motivated direction by Pat Mc­Carthy. 
IFTINANCJE CJL lUJB 


FIRST MEETING 
TUESDAY, SEPT. 7 7:00P.M. 124 HAYES--HEALY 
All Club members and interested students are welcome to come. Important information about Career Night (20+ firms attending) & upcoming Club activities 
F t) r Sen i t) r N u r s i n g Stu d en t s 

NURSING 





HORIZONS 
A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
October 16 & 17, 1992 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
The Future Nurses of Oz 


BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• 
Financial Planning • Preparing for Your Job Search 

• 
Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't 

• 
State Boards: Are You Ready? 


Your $10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 9, 1992 
Call 1-800-545-0357 for registration information and brochure. 
Nursing Horizons is sponsored by 
Mayo Center for Nursing Rochester, Minnesota 55905
CUJ 

Mayo Foundation is an affirmaliV<' action and <·qual Of'l""twrii.Y •·dum/or 111111 t•mploy<"r. A smoke-free institution. 

Business 
Monday, September 7, 1992 page 5 
Unemployment drops slightly 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The nation's unemployment rate edged down to 7.6 percent in August because of a temporary summer jobs program for teens, but adult joblessness worsened slightly and the economy lost thousands of cru­cial manufacturing jobs. 
In response to the unexpect­edly grim report Friday, the Federal Reserve cut a key short-term interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point, the third reduction this year and the 24th since the economy turned sluggish in 1989. 
The move was intended to stimulate borrowing and buying but analysts said the most immediate effect may be yet another drop in bank deposit rates. 


Farm groups critical of new free trade agreement 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration has given away the farm in its negotia­tions to create a North Ameri­can free trade zone, sugar and dairy producers charged Friday. 
But Assistant U.S. Trade Rep­resentative Kathy Lydon re­jected the contention, saying, "I think the U.S. farm will be greatly benefited by the export opportunities within the North American Free Trade Agree­ment." 
The proposed treaty liberaliz­ing trade between the United States, Mexico and Canada would seriously erode a decades-old U.S. price support program for peanuts, sugar, milk and other commodities, the producers said. 
A draft copy of the pact's agricultural provisions, ob­tained by The Associated Press, 
Marlin Fitzwater 
Administration officials tried to put a good face on the unemployment report, but Democrats and economists were dismayed by an 83,000 drop in U,.S. payrolls. The unemployment rate, which de­clined from 7.7 percent in July, 
shows that Mexico could gain substantial access to the U.S. sugar market. 
"It's certainly not going to be any benefit to us and the long­term effect of it probably will end up destroying a major part of the domestic sugar industry," said Jack Nelson, president of the Rio Grande Valley Sugar Growers Association in Texas. 
The producers fear the pact will influence the ongoing global trade talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). 
"We could be setting the stage for a bad GATT agreement in the future," said Jim Eichstadt of the Farmers Union Milk Marketing Co-Operative in Madison, Wis. The co-op repre­sents some 10,800 dairy pro­ducers in eight upper midwest­ern states. 


l[pcoming Events 
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 8 
GEORGE A. LOPEZ 
Acting Regan Director of the 
Joan B. Kroc Institute for 
International Peace Studi~:;s 
Professor of Government 
and International Studies 
II PERICLES AND 
THE PERILS OF PEACE STUDIES" 
4:15p.m. 
Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Everyone Welcome 

is derived from a survey of households while the payroll information is collected directly from businesses. 
White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said the drop in the jobless rate "is an en­couraging sign that the econ­omy is improving." 
However, Sen. Donald Riegle, D-Mich., chairman of the Sen­ate Banking Committee, pointed to a decline of 97,000 jobs in manufacturing, the worst in 18 months, and said, "The situation is getting worse, not better." 
"The high-wage, high-skill manufacturing jobs are the centerpiece of our middle class and the loss of those jobs is grinding down the middle class," Riegle said. 
But Ms. Lydon said: "This is only an agreement reached be­tween Mexico and the U.S. For them to jump to that conclusion is wrong." 
In agriculture, the North American trade agreement is essentially a bilateral accord between the United States and Mexico. The United States and Canada negotiated a free trade agreement several years ago. 
The agreement, reached last month, must be ratified by all three nations' legislatures be­fore it can take effect, and it is expected to face a bumpy road in Congress. 
Sugar and dairy producers say their industries are compet­itive but need price supports to compete against other countries that subsidize their com­modities. 
"We have been warning the 


Strikers return to work in GM Lordstown plant 
LORDSTOWN, Ohio (AP)­Employees of a General Motors Corp. parts plant returned to work Sunday for their first full day of production after ending a strike that idled about 40,000 workers at GM assembly plants. 
Nine assembly plants that depend on the Lordstown fac­tory for parts were forced to stop production or shut down after the strike began Aug. 27. The assembly plants don't stockpile parts. 
The 2,400 members of United Auto Workers Local 1714 in this northeastern Ohio town returned to work late Saturday after ratifying an 
administration at every oppor­tunity that it would be unfair and inappropriate to lower" price supports, said Jack Roney, vice president of the Hawaiian Sugar Planters Association. 
"The only reason we need a sugar program and we need this protection is because of the uniquely distorted world mar­ket," he said. 
Ms. Lydon noted that the sugar transition program would be phased out over 15 years, giving American producers ample time to adjust. 
"We believe that within rea­son we've offered the best pos­sible protection for them," she said. 
But farm~rs said the pact would hurt U.S. dairy and meat producers and encourage American dairies to relocate to Mexico. 


''Liesel'' 
Cronin 
She is 20 going 21! 
Keep Your Hands Out of The Urinal! 
Amann & Happy Birthday 
agreement to end their nine­day walkout. 
GM said it would focus on resupplying parts to resume production of its popular Saturn, built in Spring Hill, Tenn. Saturn spokesman Bill Betts said full production of 1993 models would resume Tuesday. 
About 700 workers at a plant in Kingston-Warren, Tenn., which makes rubber moldings that go around car windows, could return Thursday or Friday, said plant manager Doug Losey. 
GM plants in Baltimore and Wilmington, Del., also won't reopen until at least midweek, union officials said. 

Fed lowers rates to help economy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -When the Labor Department reported an unexpected decline in jobs during August, the Federal Re­serve dutifully nudged interest rates lower to stimulate the economy. 
But analysts increasingly are questioning whether the cen­tral bank's easy-money policy can do much good. After all, the Federal Reserve has cut rates 24 times since 1989 and the economy remains sluggish. 
The Federal Reserve on Fri­day reduced the benchmark federal funds rate for interbank loans by one-quarter percentage point to 3 percent, a 29-year low, after the Labor Department said employers slashed payrolls by 83,000 jobs. 
The unemployment rate edged down to 7.6 percent in August, but only because of a temporary federal jobs pro­gram for teenagers. 
When the latest cycle of eas­ing began three years ago, the federal funds rate was 9.75 percent. 
"The amazing part of the story is that all of that easing has barely kept the economy out of recession," said economist David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a government securities dealer in New York. 
"It's the first time since the 1930s that borrowers have been so unresponsive to lower interest rates," he said. "The reason, of course, is too much debt and not enough jobs." 
Are you interested in returning to your high school to promote Notre Dame? 

Become a part of the Undergraduate Schools Committee. Please attend the mandatory training session Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
(We held two sessions last week -if you attended one of those, it is not not necessary to come Tuesday night.) 

Questions? Call Sue (x4283), Angie (x4702), or the Admissions Office (239-7505). 

......---------~·---­
page 6 The Observer Monday, September 7,1992 



Dear Members of the Notre Dame Community, 
During the past academic year a small subcommittee of the working group on Missions, Opportunity, and Challenges (MOC) of the Colloquy for the Year 2000 drafted a mission statement for the University. We discussed this draft with the members of the MOC group of which we are a part and with the Committee for the Whole of the Colloquy. We now feel ready to share that draft with the larger Notre Dame community for your comments, suggestions and emendations. 
To the left of the mission statement we have added a "Prenote" which sets out the theological understanding that undergirds the mission statement itself. That "Prenote" intends to express our understanding of the word Catholic which is part of our self-understanding of Notre Dame as a national Catholic university. It is not the mission statement but the context out of which the mission statement arises. 
Our purpose in publishing this draft in the Observer is simple: we invite students, staff and faculty to help us produce a final statement of mission and purpose that will be part of the final document produced by the colloquy. We would invite you to communicate any reactions you may have to any member of the subcommittee whose name is listed below. We would like such responses before the end of September. 
Gregory Butrus (Student Body President) Lawrence Cunningham (Professor: Theology) Carol Ann Mooney (Professor: Law School} Thomas F. O'Meara, O.P. (Warren Professor: Theology) Mark Poorman, C.S.C. (Assistant Professor: Theology) Kathleen Maas Weigert (Academic Coordinator: Center for Social Concerns) 
PRENOTE: THE CONTEXT OF THE MISSION 
The following statement of purpose and definition will speak of the University of Notre Dame as aplace of teaching and research, of scholarship and publication, of service and community. These components follow quite naturally from certain distinctive characteristics of Catholicism. The first is sacramentality. The Catholic vision encounters God in all things ­people, events, the world at large, the whole cosmos. It is in and through the visible world and our endeavors within it that we come to know and experience the invisible God. The second is mediation. The Catholic vision perceives God to be not only present in, but also working through persons, events and material things. The Catholic believes there is an 
THE MISSION STATEMENT OF THE UNNERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


he University of Notre Dame is a Catholic academic community of higher learning, animated in a special way from its origins by the Congregation of Holy 
._____.......J 
Cross and dedicated to the communal pursuit and sharing of truth. This University exists that through free inquiry and open discussion the variant lines of Catholic thought might intersect with all the forms of knowledge found in the arts, sciences and professions. This University is Catholic in its deliberate determination to render to the Church and to the world this unique service in Christian wisdom. 
This purpose is concretely realized in the intellectual 
interchange that constitutes the life of the University, the development of its students and faculty, and the advancement of knowledge through distinguished teaching, research, scholarship, publication and service. 
Therefore, the University of Notre Dame essentially includes within itself the presence, the voices, and the contributions of diverse scholars and students, both those who represent the Catholic intellectual heritage and those from other traditions. The diversity of Notre Dame is further enhanced by the presence of different races and ages, nationalities and genders. This pluralism enables and enriches the exchange that forms the University community. The continuing presence of a predominant number of Catholic intellectuals is crucial for the Catholic identity of the University. What is asked of all scholars and students, however, is not a particular creedal affiliation, but a respect for the objectives of Notre Dame and a willingness to enter into the conversation that gives it life and character. The University, consequendy; insists upon that academic freedom which makes dris open discussion and inquiry possible. 
The University fosters the development in its undergraduate students of those disciplined habits of mind which are inculcated by the liberal arts and which characterize educated, free human beings. Such skills are: to read with critical understanding; to think and express oneself with clarity and coherence in speech and writing; to frame problems of theoretical inquiry or practical action with a sense of the relevant evidence, historical context, and procedures appropriate 

Monday, September 7, 1992 The Observer page7 
intelligibility or coherence to all reality, discoverable through the mind and the imagination, and through the sciences which give shape and discipline to both. The Catholic further believes that all human activity is called into collaboration by God to bring this world to its completion. The third is communion. The Catholic vision sees the way to God and Gods 
way to us as communal, not individualistic, and 
that the consummation of the world lies in a communion of persons. That is why the Church as a community has had such a significant role in Catholicism, and why Notre Dame has always conceived of itself as afamily and has fostered familial bonds at every level of its 
institutional life. 

These three characteristics find their source and reality in jesus Christ, the incarnation of the divine in the human. He is the sacrament of divine presenceamong us. He is the mediator who manifests Gods love to humanity and who teaches the way to salvation. He is the Lord who formed a new kind of community to preach the coming of the Kingdom. A Catholic university, then, draws its basic inspiration from jesus Christ as the source ofwisdom and its mission from the conviction that all things can be brought into their completion in Christ. 
As the University draws its inspiration from jesus Christ, it understands the imperative for higher education to be heightened by critical developments that have made of this planet one world. Religious and cultural, technological and environmental, economic and political challenges make up that world. Free women and men and the communities they form will 
direct this world into its next millenium. The shape it takes will reflect their knowledge, their 
skills and their commitments -in a word, their 
education. 

for a reasonable resolution; to possess an understanding of quantitative thinking and scientific method; to comprehend something of the great discoveries of science and technology as well of their contemporary promise; to think in a manner that is both insightful and creative and to recognize this in others; to analyze issues philosophically back to their fundamental presuppositions; to grasp the significance of Gods self­revelation in jesus Christ and to apprehend the theological implications of knowledge gained in other disciplines as these relate to the great questions of human existence. 
ogether with these liberal capacities of mind, the 
University cultivates in all its students a humane 
sensitivity both to human accomplishment and to 
.__________. human misery: an appmciation of such great " achievements of human beings as are found in art and literature, history and sociology, mathematics, technology and science; a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many of their fellow human beings. Such a sense of human solidarity and a developed concern for the common good reaches its fulfillment as learning becomes service to justice. 
As a research university, Notre Dame takes the responsibility not only for the diffusion of knowledge through the academic formation of its undergraduates, but also for the advancement of knowledge in a search for truth through original inquiry and publication. This objective particularly engages the faculty and the various divisions of the graduate program, but also its professional schools and special institutes. As a university committed to public service, Notre Dame sponsors professional schools that equip their students for a particular career with the skills and disciplines proper to each. The University also sponsors special institutes whose focus is research and science on pressing contemporary social issues. The graduate programs, the professional schools and these special institutes, aided by the general ethos of the university, also foster in their students those intellectual habits and humane sensibilities that the University expects from all its graduates. 
The Catholic character of Notre Dame as an academic community depends upon the seriousness with which the religious dimensions of all human learning are recognized, given priority, and explored throughout the University. 
The University embodies its deep concern for the religious and moral education of the students not only in the academic reflection brought to bear upon ethical and social issues but also in its encouragement of a manner of life consonant with a Christian community. Residential life contributes significantly to develop in the students that sense of community and of responsibility which prepares them for subsequent leadership in building a society that is at once more human and more divine. As a Catholic community, liturgy and retreats, spiritual direction, volunteer work and the continual promotion of service, permeate the life of the University and contribute to the complete education of the human person. 
In all of these dimensions of the University, Notre Dame pursues its objectives through the formation of an authentic human community graced by the Spirit of Christ. 







Viewpoint 
page 8 
Monday, September, 7 1992 


The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 


Twenty years of an (almost) co-ed Notre Dame 
. Twenty years ago yesterday, Notre Dame welcomed the 
f!rst freshman class of female undergraduates to an institu­
tion marked by all things historically masculine: Catholicism, 
football and brotherhood. Nineteen graduating classes 12 
female residence halls and one "Year of Women" later much 
has changed for both sexes at the University. ' 
The decision to admit women to Notre Dame was not an easy one. Amid protests and controversy after the failed merger with Saint Mary's, administrators could not be certain that what they were doing would ensure the brightest future for either institution. 
But officials stuck to their belief that Notre Dame would be 
"more humanized" by the change because, according to one 
document, "an all-ma_le in~titL:Jtion is totally unrealistic." 
True. But a host of ;mpllcatlons that neither school could or did! anti_cipat~ remain, leaving some to question when the Un;vers;ty w;ll become the "realistic" environment it promised. 
In ~0 years, Notre Dame has progressed from an institution catenng to developing the strong minds and souls of men to one that recognizes the similar potential of women. 
Gradually ~ringing the number of women undergraduates closer !O th~1r male counterparts is commendable, as lohg as the Umv~r~;ty p_lans to match the increase in the professorial ~nd adl'!l;n;strat;ve ranks. Designating a "Year of Women" ini­tiated d;alogue on key gender issues, but little headway has bee~ ma~e on co~~erns voiced by both sexes at the Uni­vers;ty -hke oppos1t1on to parietafs in the residence halls the ~dministration's refusal to publish acquaintance rape statis­tiCS and the lack of child care facilities for students and fac­ulty. 
And one should not forget that the decision to admit women to Notre Dame changed radically the relationship be­tween the University and Saint Mary's. 
Animosity, competitiveness and stereotypes about the warne~ from both institutions have developed and pros­pered ;n the last 20 years -partially attributable to the negli­gence of .~oth administrations. A picnic here and academic opportumt;es there have not eased the tension created when the need for a "sister school" became literally
obsolete. ' ' 
N<;>t~e Dame has h~d a ?O-year grace period to adjust to its dec;s;on. As the Umvers;ty enters the next stage in its co­educa~ional development, one can only hope that these and other Inadequacies can be eliminated. For only then will the transition be complete. 
Editor's note: The Observer will commemorate the 20th anni'(ersary of. co-education more thoroughly in a special sec~1on later th1s month. Subsequent stories will examine he obv1ous changes and unforeseen issues resulting from the historic d i ion. 
DOONESBURY 
Business Manager Richard Riley 

Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager .•.•..Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth OTS Director ....••............... Dan Shinnick Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
,, 110 .fl i9ht '/ zone,. ,, no Sigflt'' :::one,. Adherence to one-sided 'Truth' shelters students from real world 
It seems many people at this university are worried that it is becoming too secular and losing its Catholic character, that unidentifiable thing which makes Notre Dame unique. 
This is not the case. 
It is still run by administrators who come from the Catholic hierarchy, or must adhere to its tenets. There are still crucifixes in every room on campus. Undergraduates still must take the requisite theology classes. All social relations are governed by outdated Catholic dogma. 
Catholicism is ubiquitous on this campus. Those who decry the supposed fall from grace obviously have not experienced a college or university without an omnipresent religious influence. 
The population here is so homogeneous and so sheltered that any beliefs which are brought here or are put forth by the University as "Truth" are accepted with little question. 
The whole atmosphere of homogeneity and constant religious indoctrination is un­critically self-reinforcing. There is no reason to question any­thing since one is constantly bombarded with "Truth." 
Further, religion on campus is fundamentally at odds with academic freedom. 
Those who dare to dissent, however slightly from Catholic doctrine, are censured, silenced, or fired (shades of Galileo?). 
Indeed, according to one professor, all professors have a clause in their contract which says that if they do anything which contravenes the Catholic character of the University they ca.n be fired. 
Think about the chilling effect this can have. Do we really want a campus filled with peo-
Kurt Mills 
On the Other Hand 

pie who think exactly the same thing or are afraid to say something for fear of losing their job? 
There is also the question of the relationship of the Univer­sity to the larger society, espe­cially in regards to government funding. The standard reply is that since Notre Dame and other religious institutions are private, they are exempt from many laws which govern public institutions. 
Two points must be made, however. First, even private religious institutions have been found not to be exempt from some laws regarding discrimi­nation. 
For example, a few years ago, Bob Jones University, a fundamentalist university, was in the spotlight. Apparently, it had a rule, which it claimed was derived from its religious tradition, which prevented members of different races from dating. This was certainly an instance of religiously moti­vated discrimination. 
Fortunately, the university was called to task and lost its tax-exempt status. It could not hide behind its status as a private university. In fact, more than one hundred private, reli­giously affiliated schools have been denied or lost exemptions because of discrimination. 
Another more insidious form of discrimination (insidious because it seems to be more socially acceptable) is against gay men and lesbians. It is certainly in full force on this campus, as well as on others. 
There is a law which is supposed to prevent colleges 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Art is a sort of experimental station in which one tries out living.' 
John Cage 1912-1992 
Ground control to Major Tom: Submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
and universities which discriminate from receiving federal funds. Of course, it does not seem to be used very often and does not apply to the most prevalent discrimination on this campus. 
Second, although some would like to deny that it exists, there is such a thing as separation of church and state. 
However, this is exactly what Notre Dame is doing when it provides money in the form of student aid and the like to institutions which have as part of their mission the pro­mulgation religion. Religious educational institutions have the right to exist, but why should the government fund them? 
Finally, and getting back to the original question, another role of the university is social­ization into the wider society of humanity. 
A university which is extremely homogeneous and which teaches a certain "Truth" will not turn out individuals who can accept others despite their differences in religion or whatever. 
And, a university which, as a result of its religious views, does not permit the full range of human interaction and social relations between its students will not produce individuals who are suited to the real world and might, as in the case of Bob Jones University (and even here at Notre Dame), perpetuate views and stereotypes which are hurtful to society as a whole. 
Kurt Mills is a graduate student in Government and International Studies. His column appears every other Monday. 
Wednesday, December 9, 1991 


New defense for Kennedy revealed 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) -A guest staying at the Kennedy estate when a woman says she was raped testified at the William Kennedy Smith trial Sunday that he heard no noises, and two defense expert wit­nesses came under sharp attack by a prosecutor. 
One of the experts acknowl­edged that the absence of grass stains on the woman's clothing didn't mean she wasn't raped. 
The other expert acknowl­edged that he could not tell whether "trace evidence" such as sand and grass could have been lost before the woman's clothes were taken to police some 10 hours after the alleged assault. 
Stephen Barry, 33, an assis­tant district attorney in New York City, and son of William Barry, a close Kennedy associ­ate, was called to testify just before court recessed for the day. 
Barry identified Smith in court with a cheery, "Hi, Will." 
He then told of hearing noth­ing in the early morning hours of March 30, when the woman says she was screaming for help. He said it usually was easy to hear voices below the room where he stayed with his wife. 
The night before, he said, they had been asleep when they were awakened. 
"My brother, Patrick, was yelling up, well, not yelling, but whispering," he said. "He was whispering our names, 'Steve, Carol,' because he was locked out of the house." 
Smith, the 31-year-old nephew of Sen. Edward Kennedy, is charged with sexual battery, Florida's legal equivalent to rape, and misde­meanor battery. A 30-year-old woman claims he raped her after they met at a nightclub during Easter weekend. 
Sunday morning, before the court session began, Smith at­tended church where he was confronted by reporters who shouted: "Do you want to tes­tify?" 
"Yes," he responded. 
Barry began his testimony by recounting the relationship be­tween his father and the late Sen. Robert Kennedy. He ap­peared on the verge of tears as he described Kennedy's 1968 assassination and his father's role in knocking the gun out of the assassin's hand. His recita­tion was interrupted by a pros­ecution objection, which the judge sustained, that it was ir­relevant to the trial. 
Barry remained on the stand when court recessed. Proceedings were to resume Monday. 
The sharpest exchanges of the day came between Assistant State Attorney Moira Lasch and expert witness Jay Siegel, a professor of forensic sciences at Michigan State University who wa:s hired by the defense to analyze soil and sand outside the Kennedy estate. 
He concluded that sand found in the accuser's underwear ceuld not have come from the lawn where she says she was raped but was probably from the beach below. The defense maintains she and Smith en­gaged in consensual foreplay on the beach. 
This led to a series of ques­tions by Mrs. Lasch which elicited acknowledgements that sand could have been tracked up to the lawn and Smith, com­ing out of the water after a swim, running and kicking up sand, might have had it stuck to his body when he allegedly raped the woman. 
Siegel agreed, although he added, "You understand I'm not an expert on this." 
"Could some sand even stick to his penis?" asked Mrs. Lasch. 
"It's part of his body, yes," he said and agreed that the sand could have been transferred to the woman during a rape. 
The battle over Siegel's testi­mony became so fierce at one point that defense attorney Mark Seiden moved for a mis­trial, accusing the prosecutor of misstating facts. The judge denied the motion. Siegel com­plained she was trying to im­pugn his integrity. 
Earlier, Henry Lee, chief criminalist of the state of Connecticut, had said on de­fense questioning that the ac­cuser's clothing showed no signs of grass stains or other damage which might have re­sulted from the struggle on the Kennedy estate lawn described by the woman. 


The John Macleod Show will air on WVFI 640am tonite from 7-8 pm. Call 1-800­488-4676 to ask the coach your questions about the '91-'92 season. 
The John Macleod Show­eHclusiuely on 


wvt=iam
======64 



~ 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

Shooting in the breeze 
Stanford students take advantage of the unseasonably warm temperature and snowless courts this weekend to play a friendly game of basketball outside Stepan Center. 
Israelis accept proposal for talks 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Israeli negotiators ·arriving here Sunday said they accept an Arab proposal to start peace talks Tuesday, but new proce~ dural squabbles broke out over details. 
Both sides told Assistant Secretary of State Edward Djerejian of their acceptance, and technical personnel were preparing State Department of­fices and conference rooms for a 10 a.m. Tuesday start, offi­cials said. 
But even as Israeli officials said they insisted on meeting with the Palestinian-Jordanian delegation in one room, the Arabs were demanding two separate rooms. 
It was the latest in a string of seemingly petty wrangles clouding the historic talks, which began with great fanfare Oct. 30 in Madrid and were 
scheduled  to continue  at  a  
lower  level  here  last  
Wednesday.  

Israel, however, didn't show up out of pique at the U.S. fail­ure to consult fully on the date. Israel's negotiators arrived in­stead Sunday, greeted by sev­eral dozen Jewish and Christian supporters proffering flowers and song. 
Across town, some 200 Arab Americans protested outside the Israeli Embassy against Israel's occupation of the pre­dominantly Palestinian West Bank. 
The Israelis said they were ready to start talks immediately but the Arabs refused, citing Monday as a day of mourning for hundreds killed in the four­year Palestinian uprising against Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Not to be outdone, Israel said it too had an observance Monday -the last day of the festival of Hanukkah, which marks a Jewish victor.y over Greek conquerors in the 2nd century B.C. 
"We also have things to re­member," said Eliakim Rubinstein, leader of the Israeli team for the talks with 
Jlfrrrffi1 1'1 :n1r J®l'lnfl arn1r 
:)})fl[ 

Blankets, Baja Shirts, Jewelry, Chess Sets December 11-13, Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 9am-5pm 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre announces 
Auditions for Our Town and King Lear 
Wednesday, January 15 and Thursday, January 16 7:00-1 0:00 PM 
Auditions for the two plays will run concurrently. Please visit the departmental office at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall or call ~39-5134 for more information or to sign up fo1 a specific audition time. The Department is committed to casting its plays without regard tc race and/or ethnicitv. 
Palestinians and Jordanians. 
"But whoever wants to negoti­
ate seriously will find serious 
people on the other side of the 
table." 
The latest hitch concerned an 

Arab demand that Israel meet 
separately with Palestinians 
and Jordanians, although the 
two form a joint delegation. 
Israel is willing to put the talks on two separate tracks but insists on initial talks with a joint team of equal Palestinian and Jordanian representation, Rubinstein said. 
He said any change in that 

format, agreed on at Madrid, 
would require discussion. 
"Consensus is the name of the 

game," -he said. 
Palestinians view that ap­

proach as Israel's way of deny­
ing their existence as a sepa­
rate national entity entitled to 
an independent state. 
"We have two separate par­

ties and two separate nationali­
ties within one framework," 
said Palestinian spokeswoman 
Hanan Ashrawi, adding that 
the joint framework with the 
Jordanians is designed mostly 
for coordinating purposes. 
"Coordination does not mean 

melting everyone together," she 
said. 
The Palestinians and 

Jordanians agree to have one 
representative on each other's 
14-member panel. Israeli offi­
cials say they want more than 
one. 
Secretary of State James 

Baker III, interviewed Sunday 
on CBS' "Face the Nation," said 
he wasn't surprised at the 
wrangling and expected to see. 
mo1e of it as Syrians, 
Jordanians, Lebanese and 
Palestinians set out to resolve "their 43-year conflict. 
Although Israeli officials say 

they have brought dozens of 
substantive proposals for 
Palestinian self-rule in the oc­
cupied territories, they also say 
a demand to move negotiations 
swiftly to the Middle East is at 
the top of their agenda for 
Tuesday. 
Sugar Bowl '92 Land Packages from $269 PP DBL OCC I(800) 348-1133 Barker !fmln 


The Observer 
The Observer/Joe Fabbre 

Decking the halls 
Cavanaugh Hall freshmen combine their interior decorating and electrical skills to make their halls more festive as the holidays approach. 



Republics create new alliance 
MINSK, U.S.S.R. (AP) -The "territorial integrity" of each Soviet Union's three Slavic re­signatory, and assure the free­publics -Russia, Byelorussia dom of movement of citizens 
and Ukraine -declared across their borders, Tass re­Mikhail Gorbachev's govern­ported. ment dead on Sunday and The commonwealth -known 
forged a new alliance. as "sodruzhestvo" in Russian­
The agreement creates a will be united in a common "commonwealth of independent economic and military "space" states" with its capital in Minsk that will "strive for the liquida­instead of Moscow, the news tion of nuclear arms and full agency Tass said. disarmament under interna­
The accord defies tional control," Tass reported. Gorbachev's desperate appeals to preserve the Soviet Union The republics will coordinate under a new Union Treaty but customs and immigration poli­it was not clear whether it had cies, and promised not to take legal force. any harmful economic steps 
The 74-year-old Soviet Union against each other. The com­"as a subject of international monwealth's currency will be and geopolitical reality no the ruble, now virtually worth­longer exists," Tass reported, less because of the collapsing referring to the documents. Soviet economy. 
Russia's president, Boris Yeltsin, Byelorussia's Yeltsin, already had stripped Stanislav Shushkevich and the central government of newly elected Ukrainian nearly all its functions and re-President Leonid Kravchuk sources after the failure of a signed the commonwealth hard-line coup against agreement, one of three docu-Gorbachev in August. ments agreed to at the end of 
Sunday's agreement, the top the two-day meeting. Ukraine's item on the main Soviet and Byelorussia's prime minis­ters and Russia's secretary of state signed another pact on economic ties. 
Ukraine, following its vote for independence last week, had rejected Gorbachev's proposed Union Treaty to hold the coun­try together, and the new com­monwealth plan keeps the Slavic republics united in a lim­ited manner. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Bill Harlo said Yeltsin telephoned President Bush on Sunday afternoon to inform him of the action. Harlo said Yeltsin told Bush he would provide more details later. 
"We are awaiting those de­tails," Harlo said. Asked about the impact of the action on East-West relations, the spokesman said, "It would be premature to say until we know more about the accords." 
The republic leaders released their agreements to Tass for distribution, said a Byelorussian parliamentary spokesman, Valentin Fesyenko, in Minsk 

---------------------------~ 
Monday, December 9, 1991 
UN scrapes to pay staff at Christmas 
UNITED NATIONS (AP)-The Christmas season is a time of frantic maneuvering to find enough money to run the United Nations. Holiday salary advances have been canceled, and U.N. staffers could get no December paychecks at all. 
Day and night, U.N. financial chief Kofi Annan telephones foreign ministers and finance ministers to plead that they pay their 1992 U.N. dues early and shuffles accounts so the world body can meet its December payroll. 
The 32,000 or so U.N. staffers worldwide, involved in increasing responsibilities in recent years, "wonder whether they'll be able to put bread on the table the next time that the check is supposed to be com­ing," he said. 
"And nobody wants to work for an organization that's per­ceived as a hand-to-mouth, shoestring operation. We all want to feel that we're working for a prestigious outfit," Annan said, and "excellence costs 
..

money. 
As of early December, only 115 of the 166 U.N. nations are fully paid. 
And the United States is by far the biggest deadbeat -ac­counting for $355.5 million of the total of $523.1 million in arrears that all nations owe the regular U.N. headquarters budget. 
In addition, $456.2 million is overdue to cover the costs of peacekeeping missions, of which the U.S. owes $141 mil­lion. 
Under President Reagan, the United States began withhold­ing its dues payments to protest the then-persistent, anti­Western tone of the General Assembly, and to force budget cuts on the world body. 
But by the time Reagan de­cided in 1988, his last year in office, that U.N. reforms were taking effect and the world body was shaping up, the United States owed about $1 billion. 
President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker III have 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Bestr"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'II let you repeat the entire course...at no charge! 
We offer expen live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPEa labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined' 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations call800-KAP-TEST 
urged Congress to pay the back dues, but in a period of tight 
U.S. budgets, Congress has so far only kept even with current dues. 
The United Nations has been living paycheck-to-paycheck for years, often having to borrow money from peacekeeping bud­gets to meet the next payroll, then replenishing the peace­keeping fund when the next na­tion pays its dues. 
"You're constantly having to rob Peter to pay Paul, and jug­gle," Annan said. Sources said on condition of anonymity that construction funds were tapped this week in an effort to meet the payroll. 
U.N. coffers are so low that the longstanding holiday prac­tice of advancing the staff part of their late-December pay in their mid-month paycheck, so they can use some of the money early for shopping, has been canceled. 
"This is incredible," said Marie Smith, a clerical worker and mother of two. "This has been a standard benefit for years, we relied on it. I'm not going to be able to buy toys for my kids." 
Since the delinquent countries can't be relied on to pay up, Annan has been telephoning those that regularly pay their 
U.N. dues in full, and on time, begging them to pay 1992 dues early. 
The generous givers include Canada, Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands. 
If funds don't flow into the 
U.N. treasury by mid-month, the world body won't be able to meet the Dec. 16 payroll, mak­ing for a grim Christmas holi­day, said Susan Mills, the deputy comptroller. 
Annan said it's maddening that the world is placing more and more responsibilities for peacekeeping, nation-building and relief work on the United Nations, but U.N. members aren't paying the bills for those 
referendum of the people or other ratifying action, such as by the Soviet parliament. Tass said the agreement stipulated that other republics could join the commonwealth, but there were was no immediate an­nouncement from the other re­publics. • 
Russia, Byelorussia and Ukraine comprise nearly three· fourths of the Soviet Union's 290 million people and possess most of its economic strength, in addition to sharing an ethnic heritage as the country's tradi­tional Slavic heart. 
The new commonwealth would set up joint administra­tion over foreign relations and military policy including nu­
clear weapons of the former Soviet Union, Tass reported. The republics promised to honor human rights, guarantee 
freedom of religion and the choice of language, respect the 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS. ' 
EDUCATIONAL GROUP
•

TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL. SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GfYlAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
evening newscast "TV-Inform," ~-------------------------1 
also sought to assure the West Andy's Cards 
that the new commonwealth Great Christmas Presents for the 
would move toward full nuclear Family 
disarmament without c.u.,.a....., •• , ........, . .,...)
Gorbachev. ZD card boJ:ed JellndudH Lu)act, Hill'\, Lall~Mf, Huerte. Drown and DerteUI 
ltll llaU.al Cilia•,._, Yeaa Set-IZt.n 
Gorbachev's office said he "'......""'.............-.....,.......,.....,__.."" had no immediate comment, ~ao:"' u ...u-.-.....,...,_ 
.but in a television interview ~=~ ... 
•i -IDd.udet Waalal 

broadcast earlier Sunday the ",.......,.,..,_., ... c..... _ ,,..,, Soviet president warned of eco-.................u..,..... ......... Giot>........ w......_ .. _ 
A.DarW• vW be aa..ct Dlttday at No&H o...PrMt: mw. 10 you b.tve 
nomic and social collapse if the '"'•'"""'""u""........ •••llob~ ''"""""'••u....... 
republics destroyed the Soviet :=::!.':""."'"'••...........""' Andy'sCards Union. Box 161 
It was not clear whether the ~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;::;:=~~======N=o=tre=Dam=e:::,:::'N:::=4=65~5=6===;;;;;;;;=~I
agreement was contingent on a t 
~================~ 






Business 
Monday, December 9, 1991 page 7 
European Community leaders will discuss economic union 
MAASTRICHT, Netherlands (AP) -European Community (EC) leaders gathered Sunday before a historic meeting on uniting the trade bloc politically and economically, but Britain threatened to veto a federal­type union. 
"Our aims remain as the community founders saw it: to work for ever-closer union ­not a federal superstate," Bri­tish Prime Minister John Major said Sunday before arriving in Maastricht, Netherlands. 
"I will bring back a treaty I can recommend to the House of Commons or I will bring back none," he added in a signed ar­ticle in the London-based news­paper Sunday Telegraph. 
Major appeared headed for confrontation -or last-minute concessions -during the summit Monday and Tuesday that will be key to deciding the future of Western Europe. 
The meeting is the most sig­nificant since the community, founded in 1957, took a major step toward closer union in 1986. It passed laws that will create a single market in late 1992 by removing barriers to the free flow of money, people, goods and services. 
"Without a doubt there will be progress," German Finance Minister Theo Waigel was quoted as saying in a weekend interview with the Munich­based newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung. "But it will not go so far that Europe, as is desirable, will speak with one tongue." 
The pro-federalists include 

Pan Am sues Delta for over $2.5 billion 
NEW YORK (AP) -Pan American World Airways and its creditors filed a lawsuit seeking more than $2.5 billion from Delta Air Lines, two days after Delta backed out of a deal to rescue Pan Am. 
The lawsuit Friday charges Delta with failing to deal in good faith and breaching obli­gations made to Pan Am and its creditors' committee during negotiations this fall. 
Delta spokeswoman Frances Conner said Sunday that the airline wouldn't comment on the lawsuit until its lawyers had time to thoroughly review it. The lawyers received the law­suit late Friday night, she said. 
"We're just sorry the creditors felt the action was necessary," she said. 
The 22-page complaint was filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York, where the new, smaller Pan Am based in Miami was to have been born Wednes­day. 
Delta bought Pan Am's Euro­pean routes and Northeast Shuttle this summer. Delta on Wednesday announced in court that Pan Am's losses had changed Delta's mind about the rest of the deal. Pan Am shut down Thursday. 

According to the lawsuit, Delta approached Pan Am "to acquire (Pan Am's) most valu­able assets -their European routes -and to cherry-pick from other assets, for Delta's own economic benefit." 
Germany, France and Italy, the three other biggest member na­tions. They are now bent on going further and turning the community of 338 million peo­ple into an economic and politi­cal power rivalling the United States and Japan. 
They are backed by the Netherlands, which holds the community's rotating presi­dency, Belgium, Greece, Spain and tiny Luxembourg. 
Only Ireland, Denmark and Portugal share some of Britain's reservations about diminishing national sovereignty. 
"Federalism is the guiding principle. It is not a porno­graphic word," Jacques Delors, president of the community's Brussels-based executive commission, said Sunday. 

277-8338  . 10-9 Mon-Sat .y. 11-7 Sunday $9.99 CDS $9.99 CDS $9.99 CDS -BUY-SEll.-TRADE USED CDS & TAPES -MORE $10.99 CDS THAN ANYONE!! -IMPORTS-CDS & VIDEOS -BLANK TAPE ALWAYS ON SALE -AREA'S LARGEST SELECTION OF CDS!  


Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, December 9, 1991 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 

News Editor ....•.••.•............. Monica Yant Advertising Manager .....• Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •.............•••• Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ••...... Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •••............ David Dieteman Production Manager ..........•. Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien · Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..••.•............... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller .................•... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Peralez disgraced in Black cultural festival skit 
Dear Editor: South Bend Tribune. I un­of Paul Peralez. Rather, I write individual's character not be tion of a human being's charac­
On Nov. 22, 1991, the Black derstand that it is not the policy with the hope that other offensive? ter infuriates me. cultural arts festival was held The Observer to write an article concerned students will voice The Observer simply does not I hope that those who devised on campus. This festival was every time a student transfers their outrage at this incident. feel that the University funded the skit are pleased with its re­held to celebrate African and from the University; however, This is not a call to racial war. public assassination o( a sults. They have caused a African-American arts and the extenuating circumstances It is a war over the first student's character is news­member of the Notre Dame cultural diversity. However, it make this case an exception. amendment: the right to free worthy. By the silence of the family to surrender his dreams adopted at least in one de­speech. This right was exer­campus newspaper, one can of an education at this plorable skit, a malicious tone. The fact that a student was cised by Mr. Peralez to the dis­only assume that the supposed University. Forget the names of 
During a "Homey the Clown" publicly humiliated, under the may and disapproval of many voice of the students is indiffer­the victim and the assassin and s'kit, former Notre Dame sanction of countless organiza­students. ent to the actions of the Black remember the action. student Paul Peralez was por­tions and departments, war­I understand that many peo­Cultural Arts festival. Or, in a trayed as having oral sex with rants an objective report as a ple in the African-American worst case scenario, the paper Understand that there is no another man. The skit contin­news item. Is it not odd that community were angry with the agrees with the actions of the justification for this action; no ued until the actor portraying the South Bend Tribune, a pa­insidious propaganda advocated skit. amount of hate can be this Mr. Peralez was beat up, to the per with a considerable larger by Paul Peralez. His words hurt Paul Peralez's name and great, not at a Catholic amusement and pleasure of the audience felt the article news­many people. However, he reputation do not disqualify him University. Remember that crowd, by another member in worthy, but that the voice of the never gathered together many from the protection of free your tuition money and the the cast. This is how the story students on campus did not of his supporters, and under speech. In light of this incident, support of many campus orga­was presented in the South perceive the incident worthy of sanction of the University and it would seem that at this uni­nizations paid for the meaning­Bend Tribune on December 1, mention? Is it because the Ob­with University funds, he never versity, an individual's right to less slaughter of one of our own 1991. This incident prompted server fears the reaction of ex­performed a skit portraying the freedom of speech is protected fellow students. Paul Peralez to leave Notre tremists on campus? leadership of SUFR as only as long as hiss/her state­Remember that the first Dame. I do not fear their reaction, homosexuals performing sexual ments are consistent with the amendment protects the speech 
I regret that I am writing this not from the left nor the right. I acts on each other. This "skit" majority opinion. of all people, no matter how far letter so many days after the only fear that a student's is a disgrace to the University The actions of the individuals away from the political center actual incident. However, it is character was publicly and those who partook in it who planned and participated that speech is. due only to the fact that I was assassinated and neither The should be appropriately in the skit depicting Paul If we all begin to talk a little unaware that such a prominent Observer nor the administration punished, in accords with the Peralez as a homosexual per­more and listen to what each student on campus, albeit a has said anything about the discrimination policy in du Lac. forming oral sex are deplorable. other is saying, then maybe no controversial one, had left the incident. These people were obviously one will feel it necessary to University. I do not agree with the ideas The article in the South Bend hurt enough by the words of publicly humiliate another for 
It was not until December 5 that Paul Peralez represents. I Tribune reports that Iris Out­Paul Peralez that they felt the their beliefs. Isn't that what that I happened upon an article was among the first to condemn law, director of the Office of public assassination of his cultural diversity is all about? describing the event, not in The his recent article against SUFR Minority Affairs, claims that the character was justified. That John Paul Kimes 
"Observer, our campus as malicious and racist. I do skit was not offensive. How can my tuition money went to Keenan Hall newspaper, but rather in the not write this letter in defense the public defamation of an support the unabashed defama-Dec.6,1991 
Day care center for elderly needs student volunteers 
Dear Editor:  they used to be, possess a great  pas to many are dropped off  Notre Dame helping out.  What I ask of you is to con­ 
Old age is a stage in life which  amount of wisdom, but express  each weekday at the center by  sider giving up an hour or two  
most people go through.  For  a need for care outside of their  their loved ones.  Here, some­ I originally went to the center  during this Christmas season to  
those that don't or from those  own.  At St. Joseph's Adult Day  one can keep an eye on them  because I had to, but now, after  give your energy to  a  good  
who have yet to reach that  Care Center on Notre Dame  and can provide them with nec­ realizing what I mean to some  cause.  The center is close to  
period in their lives, we all still  Ave., the elderly are cared for  essary care, while their sons  of the people there, I plan to go  campus and easy to get to:  for  
come  in contact with older  in the best way.  The staff  and/or daughters go to work.  back on my own.  The older  more information call Beverly  
people.  schedules numerous activities  Due to the growing amount of  people love to see a young per­ at 234-2961.  
throughout the day to keep the  elderly in the South Bend area,  son with lots of energy who is  Carl Cozen  
These elderly people, though  people busy.  the staff at the center is always  willing to give his/her time to  Keenan Hall  
wrinkled and a step slower than  These grandmas and grand- delighted to see volunteers from  them voluntarily.  Dec.2,1991  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  



Executive. Summapy
Sexual Harassment at Notre Dame: 
Results of the Sexual Harassment Survey 
Conducted by the Faculty/Student Committee on Women, during the Spring Semester, Academic Year 1990-1991 
I. INTRODUCTION the boundaries oftthe percentages {maximum or minimum 
For purposes of analysis, the total survey population is depending on the phrasing of the question) of persons subdivided into eight subgroups. Students are holding certain views. 
This document summarizes the results of the Sexual differentiated by sex and whether they are graduate
Harassment Survey conducted by the Faculty/Student students or undergraduates. Faculty are differentiated on Ill. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS 
Committee on Women at the University of Notre Dame the basis of sex and tenure status. Thus there are four
during the spring semester of academic year 1990-1991. categories of females {undergraduates, graduate
The Committee chose to conduct this survey of faculty A. General attitudes and perceptions students, nontenured faculty, and tenured. faculty) and
and student attitudes toward and experiences with sexual four corresponding categories of males. 
harassment at Notre Dame as a way of educating itself 1. Is sexual harassment an extensive problem at Notre about sexual harassment on campus. The Committee Dame? 
B. Who returned completed questionnaires? 
intends to use the information gained through the survey Respondents were asked whether they agree or to guide the formulation of procedures for dealing with Response rates ranged from a low of 19 percent among disagree with the statement: Sexual harassment is not an incidents of sexual harassment including reporting, male graduate students to a high of 70 percent among extensive problem at Notre Dame. Thirty-six percent tenured female faculty members. {See Figure 1.) Overall, agree with this statement; 28 percent disagree, and the
investigation of complaints, record keeping, and the faculty had the highest response, followed by under­remainder indicate that they have no opinion. {See 1GA
sanctions. In addition, we hope that the issuance of this graduates, and then graduate students. and 1GB.)
report will raise the community's awareness of sexual ha­rassment. • Females are twice as likely as males on average to
Figure! 

disagree with the statement that sexual harassment is not Sample Size and Response Rate an extensive problem. 
II. THE SURVEY POPULATION 
1GA Sexual haruiiMIII II not an axtaNiw prablam at Notre Dame. 
A. Who was surveyed ? 
Undergrad Female 
The survey targeted three groups: undergraduates, 
~Fallllla

Grad Female •••••••
graduate students and faculty. Survey questionnaires 
Non-Tenured Faculty Female .....
were mailed the week of February 25, 1991 to every member of the teaching-and-research faculty, the library 
Tenured Faculty Female 
faculty, the special research faculty, and the special 21% 
TanFacF.,.aa professional faculty. Random samples of 1000 Undargrad Mala ···-------­19% 

Grad Mala~~~-------... 

undergraduate students and 1000 graduate students were 
GmdMIIa

Non-Tenured Faculty Mala ••••••••• 

Undarar-!MIIalllii:~· 52 
drawn from the registrar's master list. The random sam­
NDn-Tan Fac Mila

ples were constructed so that they reflected the gender Tenured Faculty Mala ~~~···L.:~~~........--J 
0 200 400 600 800 TanFacMIIa 
42
composition of each group. Questionnaires were mailed to students in the samples the week of March 3 and 11 . o 1 o 20 3D 4D 5o eo 10 eo 110 1 oo "' 
• Respondents • Orig. SampleThe questionnaire appears as Appendix A in the full 1GB Sexual haraRmart II an axtanalva problem a1 NOire Dame 
C. Can the results be generalized to the entire University 
report. Respondents' comments about the survey and 
community?
questionnaire appear in Appendix B. ~Female 
Generalizations from the survey results will be accurate
The Committee, a panel of faculty and students created Q...tFanala
only if the sample of nonrespondents is the same as the
by the President to advise him and the provost on policies 
~Tan Fac Fa!lllla

sample of respondents in terms of its beliefs and
related to the overall academic and social environment for 
Tan Fac Female

experiences. In most surveys of controversial issues,
women, limited the survey population to faculty and 
persons who feel strongly about an issue are more likely Undarg...tMIIa
students. Although the issue of sexual harassment is a to respond than those who do not. Thus, it is probable GmdMIIa 21 concern for the entire University community, and the that a smaller percentage of the nonrespondents than 
52
committee offered to survey the staff and analyze the NDn-Tan Fac Mala 
respondents believe that sexual harassment is a problem
results, the University chose to retain the original limits on TanFacMIIa 
at Notre Dame. If this is true, the generality of the results
the population. 
o 10 20 3D 40 ao eo 10 eo 110 100 "'
is limited, but not negated. Specifically, the results define 
Definition of Sexual Harassment 
OgUPe8 tlglll'e 4 Pet•cent agi'Being tllat thtlacts dBBCI'ibed BI'B sexual hBI'BBsment PIII'Cent agpeeing tllat the acts descl'illed 8l'tJ sexual haPassment itCBI'I'ied out by someone wllllllllthoritr if CBI'I'Ied outby BOIIIBDIIIJ wDIIout lllthorifv 
100 ....

o 10 20 3o •o 50 60 10 so eo too% o 10 20 30 ~o 50 60 10 ao eo tOO% 20 40 60 80 

I 
2B Unwilnt.:l pressure lor date&. 

2E Unwant.d touching, le1.11ing over, comering 
282 Unwan:ad pr.ssure for d.a!aa Undelgrlld FernaJa
Urwtergr..:tFemale~~~~~~~~~~~
Grad F.,.,. 
Orad FerNte 

Undo<;<adFomaiO·~
58 Non-Ten Fae F.maM: 78 
Grad Fem&Je


Ten Fac Femail 
Ten F.w; F.,..le 75 
Underg,.;i UU Grad Male 
Non-Ten Faew• 
Ten Fac Mall 
o 10 20 30 40 50 so 10 so eo toe.,. 

0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100% 

20 •o 60 80 100""' 20 40 60 80 100 % 
2F Unwanted preuure lor Nxual l..,o,.. 
U~gradFerMM 


2F2 Unwanted pressure fOI' uxU£1 li;VO•I
202 Unwantfd &ugge&trve looks 01 ge&~urH
Gtad FwnD Non· Ten Fac Fem&)e r..,FacF~ 100 
Grad Male 


lllm 
Non T.tn F~ Male 
Ten F"ac MAle




u"""'•'"'"'""!EIIi2 

·---------­
Ten Fac: Male 


0 10 20 30 4'0 so 60 70 80 QQ 10~ .... 
o 10 20 JO 40 50 &o 10 ao eo 100 '!Co 

~-m·'7enF~Mai·JIIIIIIL~J
'l'en Fac: Male 69 

20 40 60 80 10~ .... 
20 40 60 80 100 'II. 
Grad Female 
Non.TenFacF~ 
Tan Fac Fema• Undergr.:t Uale GriiCIUU. Non· Tan Fac IIIU. r., Facw• 



o 10 20 Jo 40 50 eo 70 ao eo 100' 
2 0 4 0 . II 0 B 0 100 "" 
Underg1ad I= .rna~ Grad Femd Gtad Female Non·T~ Fac ~.male Non.fen Fac Female 

11 TenF..cFei'Nkt Ten Fae F..,.._ 

13 

Undergrlld MoW uncs.rgradMaJe Grad MD Q,.d .... Non· Ten Fae Malil Non-Ten Fee Male Ten Fac Male Tan Fac Male 
80 

Grad Fen.&. Non.Ten Fac Female 
GrapUaJe Non-Tan Fac ~!.!ale Ten Fac Male 
.i 



page2 Paid Observer Advertisement 

The Appropriateness ol Romantic Relationships 
llgtre5 PBI'CIIIIt bBIIBVinl/ tiiBt 1111 l/llt:llllld I'Billtloll8/lfl/6 /nBp/11'0/IIVIB 
2. Are the victims of sexual harassment significantly handicapped in their ability to succeed at work or in school? 
A majority of each subgroup, ranging from 51 to 90 percent, believe that sexual harassment significantly handicaps its victims ability to succeed at work or school (See 1F.) 
• With the exception of female graduate students, students were significantly less likely than faculty to agree that sexual harassment poses a significant handicap. 
1F Vletltn. .,. handicapped at work and In achool. 
Undergrad Female 

72 

Grad ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Non-Ten Fac Female Ten F.: Flllllle B1 
Undarvr-f 

GrwtMIIIe liiiiiii·~~

Non-Ten Fac Male Ten Fac Mille 
0 20 40 10 ao 100 % 

3. Are people who complain of sexual harassment over­reacting to expressions of normal sexual attraction? Do the victims of sexual harassment usually provoke it? 
Generally no. Only a small percentage of each subgroup (never more than one in five and usually less than one in ten) agree with the statements that people who complain are overreacting, or that they usually provoke sexual harassment. (See 1A and 1B.) 
There is significant variation across subgroups however.• Male undergraduate students are significantly more likely to agree with the statements that people who complain are overreacting or have provoked the harassment than any other subgroups. 
• Similarly, in the aggregate, males are three times as likely as females to agree with these statements. 
1A Moll people whO oomplaln are -lng to natural attraction. 
Undl9ad FemU Grwt Femall 
Non-Ten F.: Femall Ten Fac Female Undergrad Male 111 
Grad Mile Non-Tan Fac Male Tan F.: Male 

o 1o 20 30 40 50 10 70 80 to 100 % 

1B People uaually prvvou aaxual haruament. 
Undargrlld Female Grell Female Non-Tan Fac Female Ten F.: Female Unclargrad Mila Grad Mala Non·T•n Fee Male Tan Fee Male 


o 1o 20 30 40 5o 10 10 80 to 1oo % 
4. Can mature individuals handle unwanted sexual attention on their own without involving the University?No, according to 90 percent of the females surveyed. Only 65 percent of the male respondents answered this question negatively. (See 1E.) 
• Male undergraduates are the most confident that individuals can handle unwanted sexual harassment themselves. One in two take this position. 
1E Mature people can Nlndle SH without lnvolvt~ Notre Oema. 
~Female 
GredFemU 
Non-Tan Fac Female Ten F.: Female Undargred Mala ~~~~~~~ 41

2 4

011111 Male Nan-Tan F.: Mile 

32 

Ten FacMIIa o 1o 20 30 40 50 eo 10 ao go 1oo "" 
B. Definitions: What is sexual harassment? 
Faculty and student respondents are almost unanimous in their belief that an individual is being sexually harassed if subjected to unwanted letters or phone calls of a sexual nature; unwanted touching; unwanted pressure for sexual favors; or sexual assault. 
There is more disagreement regarding unwanted teasing, jokes or questions of a sexual nature; sexually suggestive looks or gestures; and unwanted pressure for dates. These behaviors are more likely to be regarded as sexual harassment when they are initiated by someone who has authority over the subject of their attentions. (See Figures 3 and 4.) 
• Undergraduate men were significantly less likely than any other subgroup to consider these three behaviors sexual harassment. 
• 
Students were less likely than faculty to include these behaviors in their definitions of sexual harassment. 

C. 
Are romantic relationships between students and professors or TAs appropriate? 


The responses reveal that opinions vary markedly with the presence and absence of authority. (See Figure 5.) 
• 
Less than 10 percent of any subgroup approve of romantic relationships between students and their instructors (facultyffA) who have authority over them. 

• 
In contrast, almost 20 percent and 50 percent of respondents condone romantic relationships between students and faculty or TAs respectively who are not the students' direct supervisors. 

• 
Fifty-seven percent of the respondents deem relationships between co-workers appropriate. 


The rates of approval do not vary significantly across subgroups. 
D. Is sexual harassment a University concern? 
Yes. Large majorities of each subgroup believe that behaviors involving physical contact, pressure for sexual favors, or unwanted letters and phone calls of a sexual nature are matters which the University should monitor or attempt to prevent when the instigators have authority over the subjects of their attention. (See Figures 6 and 7, page 3.) 
• 
The level of support for University intervention (monitoring and prevention) falls off markedly when the behaviors involved are unwanted teasing, jokes and remarks; unwanted pressure for dates; and suggestive looks and gestures. 

• 
There is significant variation in the responses of males and females: a larger proportion of females than males supports university action. 


There is significantly less support for University intervention when the offenders do not have authority over the subjects of their unwanted attention, except in the case of attempted or actual rape or sexual assault. 
E. Policies and procedures 
1. Does Notre Dame currently have a sexual harassment policy? 
Substantial percentages of all subgroups, ranging from 32 percent (tenured faculty) to 51 percent (female graduate students), do not know. (See the left-hand column of Figure 8, page 4.) 
Notre Dame does have a sexual harassment policy. First published in 1989, it appears on pages 48-49 of the Faculty Handbook and on pages 53-54 of Du Lac. 
Always or usually inappropriate between: 


o to 20 to 40 10 .. to 10 eo eo 1 oo ... 
• Allrn.p • U.U..Iy 
o&OSluo.n11Ail4ptof­dhoV'I onct •V'Ih;lrtly. 

T..,F.c:...._ •••
..,._',...'..,.......,......,....-l 
0 10 10 10 40 iG 10 70 10 10 100 .. 
·-......... 
o 10 20 to •o 10 10 70 ID eo 100 .. 
·-........ 
Snmetimes inappropriate between: 

41111udlrelpral-wltl 
dhwct authority. 

4C Studltnl and INCfllnO ......,_ wllh dlrK1 aulhotlty. ' 

40 Studllnl and prof-Of 'lll'hl'lovl dlr.ct auhr• .,. 

0 10 20 10 40 iO 10 70 10 10 \00 .. 
4Eiwcilonl~tud"olng..._ 
wt~nwt dlr.cs aut'-rtr. 

Appropriate between: 
..........
-·­
Non-TenFIIC~ 


.. 
TenFacF-*t 

C)Bd..... !14 N!Jn.TenFK..... U
---~~~ru 
T.nFIIC..... 55 
,. 10 100"4 
48 kM:IIH'III I Pfol•-.tth diNC1 alllhortly 

NIJn.TenfKr.ll 1 
TWifK,.._ 1 

~-T~~~~-T~~ 
o to 20 30 co 10 eo 10 eo eo too "" 
4C SIU!Mnt and INCNng ...-we ••h dlrKt aulhotlty 

Unlitrgr~hmUI 
Ot-' F.,.... 
Non-Ten he Fenw. 
T.nfac:F-... 
Otw:l ...... 
fllon.Tiftlftt: ...... Tan F.::.-... 





Paid Observer Advertisement page3 
The University's Responslllty ,..,7
litllftB PBI'Cent who IIY tliB 1/niviJIIIity hill l'el/llllllilllity tliiiiiJIIitolt Ill' /lf'tJJIIJIIt tliB PBI'Cellt who ay tlllltllivlll'lity,_I'IIB(IIIIIdllt tlllllllllitol' Ill' ,.,,em t1111 following beiiBJiiOI'I it tltlne /Jy ltiiiiBIIIIB wtlllllllllllf'lty ffllowfllg ,_.,..,itt/tllle /Jy IIJIIIIJIJIIIJ wlllrlut lllllr1rlty 

3E2 Unwanted IOUChlng. '-&nlng ~. cornertng UncM!"grlld F.,...

Grad ~emale 
Or-' Femallt 

~-i~l=w.:l=emale 
Non-Ten Fac FemUe 

Ten Fac Female 
Ten he F.,.,. 

Undergr&d MR 
UndefVr.tu• 

Gr&dMU 
GnidWaa 

Non-T~ F.c:M._.. 
Non-Ten Fa::Mallt 
Ten Fa::M* 

o 10 20 :JO 40 so eo 10 so eo tOO"­0 10 20 30 40 50 80 70 10 tO tOO% "" 20 •o 60 80 100 " 
3f2 UnwaMed Pf8S&Ure lor sa.rual Iavan 
38 Unwan1ed pre&sure lor dales. 3F Unwantld p~.-ure 101' NXU&I favora. 

Unct.rgr.cl FttnM Undergrad Femaie 
Undetgrld~ 

Orad F..,_. Grid Female 
GradFerrWe 
Non-Ten Fac F~ 

Non-Ten F~ Female Non-Ten Fac F~ 
TenF~eF.,.._ 
TenFa:F.-nale 
UndergrW:IUale

Uodo<goodr.c ...
Ten Fac Fema.ll Undergrlld ..... 
"""' .....

Gtad I.I.W 
Gl'lldMale 
Non-Ten FIC Male 

Non-r.n Fac Male 
Non-Ten FacMale 

TenFacMM T.,FadbJe 
3G Adual 01 atterf1)1tld rape or ~&.rual uuult 


Undefgrad Female 
UndM'gl'lld F«n&&e 
Gr.adF~ 
Grad F.,_. 
Non-Ten Fac !=•maUl 52 

Non-Ten FIC F.,... T•n Fac F•maie 
jiijiiiiiiiii.. •a 
Ten Fa: F..,... 
Undergrad Male 


Unct.rgrJidll.tale 
Grad Mal• 
G.-.dUiie 
NOI'o·TenFacM&Je 
Non+ Ten Fac Ma.le 
Ten Fac M.J.Ia 

,-tl!l'l.......-,...-,...-,........,,......,.........,......j 
Ten Fac M.aJe 

0 10 20 30 40 SO 60 70 BO 90 100..,. 0 10 20 l!l olD 50 60 70 80 SID 100% 
X::2 Ul'owantad leners. pi'IOne caUil of a uxull nature 3C unwarrted lener~. phone callll of Mxual nalu~. 


o , o 20 :Jo 40 so 8D 10 10 ao , oo 



0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100.,. 
ao 100
20 •o 

• 
The percentage of students and faculty who are not knowledgeable about this policy rises as the level of detail increases. 

• 
A majority of each subgroup does not know whether Notre Dame has effective procedures for dealing with sexual harassment complaints. 

• 
Only 18 percent of faculty and 15 percent of students believe that Notre Dame has dealt well with the issue of sexual harassment to date. 


2. Is it important that Notre Dame have a well-defined policy and procedures? 
Yes. All subgroups overwhelmingly support the existence of a well-defined policy. There is also immense support for publicizing this policy and the available channels and officials to contact. (See the right-hand column of Figure 8, page 4.) 
3. Is it within Notre Dame's power to combat sexual harassment? 
Yes. No less than two-thirds of the survey population is convinced that Notre Dame can combat sexual harassment. 
F. Personal experiences 
1. What proportion of the survey population has experienced unwanted sexual attention? 
Two-thirds of the students and one-half of the faculty responding to the survey indicated that they had experienced sex-stereotyped references, depictions or jokes in a Notre Dame classroom or work situation. (See Figure 9.) 
Figure 9 General Experiences 
SA Exp&rienced sax-st&reo-typed r&ferances, depletions or jokes 
Undergrad Female 

81 
Non-Ten Fac Female 61 
Ten Fac Fomale 7 6 • Always


Grad Female liiiiii~~~: 
BIJ usuallyUndergrad Male 52 

Grad Male 44 
Non-Ten Fac Male 2 
Ten Fac Male ~!!!l!!~-i4"-S.,.....,_.,-.....,...~......;.~ 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100% 
5B Respondents bothered by sex-stereo-typed references. depictions. or jokes 
Undergrad Female Grad Female: Non-Ten Fac Female T&n Fac Female Undergrad Male 


Grad Male 42 Non-Ten Fac Male Ten Fac Male 2 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100% 
Small percentages (never in excess of 15 percent) of the respondent populations were the subjects of other types of unwanted sexual attention. (See Figure 10, page 4.) 
2. Does unwanted sexual attention occur more frequently between peers, or when one party has authority over the other? 
Unwanted sexual attention occurs most commonly between peers among both students and faculty. 
• 
One in ten faculty members indicated that they have experienced unwanted sexual attention from a peer; one in eleven from someone with authority over them; and one in fourteen by someone over whom they had authority. 

• 
Slightly more than one-third of the students reported receiving unwanted sexual attention from a peer, but only one in eight said they had been bothered by someone who had authority over them. 


3. What are the most common forms of unwanted sexual attention? 
Unwanted teasing, jokes, remarks or questions of a sexual nature; and unwanted sexually suggestive looks or gestures are the behaviors most frequently reported. This result does not vary with the authority of the offender. 
• One tenth of the faculty and one-half of the students who reported tha~ they had been the subjects of unwanted sexual attention from peers said they were touched, leaned over, cornered or pinched, or pressured for dates and sexual favors. One faculty member and fourteen students reported being the victims of rape. 
4. Is the experience personally upsetting? 
Fifty percent of the respondents who indicated that they were the subjects of unwanted sexual attention from peers or from someone who had authority over them report that the experience is upsetting. The rate falls to forty percent when the victim has authority over the offender. 
5. What sort of action is taken to resolve the situation, if any? 
Most recipients of unwanted sexual attention try to ignore the situation or avoid contact with the individual(s) bothering them. Confronting the offender is the third most common response overall, and occurs most often when the offender is a peer. 
• Confrontations improved the situation about 60 percent of the time among faculty and 45 percent of the time among students. 
6. How frequently do persons subject to unwanted sexual attention seek help from the University? 
Advice is sought informally from 1 0 to 20 percent of the time. Victims are least likely to seek advice when they are being bothered by a peer. Formal complaints occur rarely. 
7. Why don't the subjects of unwanted sexual attention make formal complaints more frequently? 
No single reason dominates. Confusion regarding what constitutes sexual harassment was cited by a plurality of respondents. The respondents generally thought that the University environment is hostile to such complaints. 
B. How frequently are the situations resolved and how satisfied are the subjects of unwanted sexual attention with the outcome? 
Among the faculty, the situations were resolved more often than not. One half of the students indicated that their situations were resolved. A majority of faculty were satisfied with the outcome; there was less satisfaction among students. 
9. By w{lom are people being bothered? 
The answer varies with the authority of the offender over the victim. 
• 
When the offender has authority over the victim, the typical harasser is a male, older than the subject, from the same department and of the same ethnic status. The offender and his victim usually know one another. 

• 
Faculty members subject to unwanted sexual attention from someone over whom they have authority were more likely to be bothered by females than by males and by persons who were younger than they. 

• 
Faculty members subject to unwanted sexual attention from peers were typically bothered by a male older than they and of the same ethnic status. Students were typically bothered by a male who was their own age. 

G. 
Experiences as accused 


1. What percentage of the survey sample had been accused of sexually bothering someone at Notre Dame? 
Four percent of the students surveyed and 2 percent of the faculty reported that someone had accused them of sexually bothering them during their time a Notre Dame. 
2. Did the accused think that the accusation was fair? 
Of those accused, fifteen percent of the students and 8 percent of the faculty thought the accusation was fair. 

76 
Ul'oOotrgraojFotmat• 

76 

G1ad ~emale 
77 

~on-To,., Fac i=amale 
76 

Ten FacFtrNtl8 Undergr&d Uale Grad Male Non-TenF;acM&II!I Ten rae t.Aale 
o 10 20 30 40 so 60 10 10 eo 100~ 40 eo eo 100..,
20 


liglreB PoliciBS and PotBntiBI Rllmlllllu 

o to zo 30 •o ·!>o 10 10 10 to IOO% • 11:1 • [)Qn1Kroc.-.r 
4781 Dol& Notre O.rr. hrM .rlediYe p1o.:w~ lot Cledng Mlll -uallw-1~1 
.._,_Otaduatef,..,...........ESEl
70 
Non-tenvr.!F_....F~ 
TenurwdF--.FICI.Ifty IS 
Grlldullri1M... 78 
Nori-~MMoF.culy 17

U1'161rgr-"-rWalll!i~~§§~~~~J
r-""""'"""" 

10 100 'II. 


page4 Paid Observer Advertisement 
1,1A2 1-foow ln~oQrt;:,nt loa n thAI Notre Dam. l'wove pul1cle• 'llllhk:l'l prol'lbll M•~al lo.&IA6&nl,.llll 
Undotrgr..:luceFern.;~lu 
Or..:Sut~~ehmar.., 
Non-lenuJIIICIFemaleFacully 
hnu-.df..,-.JifiiQII!y 
Unfttgrlflduall u.... 
NOIH-MUMFaeul'y TanutMUaltoFIOJhy 
.... 
UC I 0.0.& Notrl [)a'ne CIOrldud IW1\I .lnd !flOI'OUIQh 
lllYolti~I&IIOntOI~? 
..Jn0elgrlld~f•maleiiiiiiiiii" 22 .. 
GrmucaoFIIO'P\&IIo-.11 
NV>fot•nuredFtnw.l=ac:u~ty -..zt 

• ().;11~.nuw 
Gt....,.,~.,. 71
~-~F~~;;~~5;~;;~~~:-~
..............-."""" 
T1--' Female F.allly 
a.-.....
u-.·-""'~§j
Non-~1.1-F&\IIJ' 
T.nur..t WW FNII)' 
.... 

.... 
• (M!lKI'IOIIII 
Und..-gradUIIIIMalt 00 Gradu•,tet.lale ,. 

l\.)n-terllll'.c!U~F.eully 
.. 
T-..c!W~Faa.oty 
" 
0 20 40 00 
• Don1KI\Ooft
litO 
U01 Don NDtf• o-N 1~ COI'I'PIIIInl• lovrld to hlw rrMII 0!1 tl'l•hii--N'II»f"''•nl IK01cl7 


'. 
.. 
" 
.. 
" 

frrfan...,.,... Femall FIQ!Iy ~;;~~;:-:":'"
T..edF.-.FKUI!y!
--­
ar..-.u• 
~U.-FM:Uiy T...... UIIeF~ 


.... 

Gradu.. w. 
--"""''"""' 
T~ldU... Faoilly 
.... 

• Don1K11001 
C702 
100, 
0 20 co 10 10 100""'
.... 
• Oon'IK.­
....

• Oon1Know 
,00% 

20 co 
• SomtoM~• ~· • v.., ·~· 
4782 HOIIt ~~~~~~ II; • lhlf NoiN Dam. h ..... ~..1;1..... proc:.du-tor dednQI ........l.l&lll•u.m.n• tlOIT'pl&lfllll? 
Unct.r;r~FemM 
~Fem~II'FIC\Ity-·­
r..,uredFtriTIIIIF.cutty 
Un~Mrgrad'*-t.l• 
(hdiMIIIIUU 
710 
Non-llnuredt.I... Facuty 
T•I"'IMCCUaiiFacukt 
..::J 

• ~h.id!rrpo!WII • Vflf'/~IW! 
47C2 How lrr1»f'lanl .. • lh• NotN o.~ ~lklet 1ow<f1 .and Thonwgh inv,...lg.llions fl CDII'IpiU!tl7 
100'4 
".. 
i" 
" 
" 
... 

I T.nut.a F«nnloo Fao.-y 95 


"'""'""""iiili"=:::J •
" 
611 

Haw~~~~ .. • dUll Netfe Dems •nlor~ J-lilh,.,. Alto'"'~ l•il<l-111 ~aduaer..rra 11 
"'-···~· ..
~~~·~~~~~~~~:l
i .. 
·--

10 100 ~ 
47£2 How~ lllltl.,... 0... .... I f'IC!Otd allnt011J111 ~1? 

..
--· 

........,..,.......Fscullr .. " 
-·­
Teflllf'ICIF.....F~ 
....__... 

·--
Non·lenwwd ..... F.cully Twuectt.&WFKUty 1::1 10 100 'II, 
• Y«ylrrponliN 

10.----r---­

•102 ~ lrTl*l.ull II II lh.M Nau• Dams IICOI'd co"'*""'-found 10 have 11'11111 on th• hlr-.-• petm.nent IIICDI'd? 

u__.,....,.,,_~~~'~o~~"~:
Noft.~F..... FIICUiy 1l 72 r.........tld~Far:ull~......_,, 
l..lrll*grw!U&t•t.l• ...,.,.,... II 311 
·--0 20 60
" " 



I I 0 11 20 21 30 16 40 oU "llo 

........ 


0 I I 0 11 :20 U 30 31 40 U .. 
.V"'f~l 
47HZ How ~ .. I ._. NOCN o.rnt prcwlrM lor a r.WW of 1 wldlm'a gtadel~&luallon. 
" 

,....,tedf......F-'fty 71 
-·­




---Iii~~~~~~
T-.nd Fttnii.F.ully 71 Urte*g,...,...I.Wt 
~edlrolsiiiF.uty T~ldM... Fa::uttr 
" 
-­
'.'-~-...--4 

20 10 10 100 "" 
.V.ryl~ 
4712 How ftlponanl ... !till Now D.,.. publicize pohciM Much 
plohlbltn•u.aiPI.Ir~Nmsnl'l' 


.. 
" 
10011. 

Vety~IUont 
47J2 How ~ant II ~ lh• Nolte a-publlc!zM IV..I.il!Jj, chiM• snd onida• 10 cantacf7 
l.hWgrldllllUIFsmal. 
ar~.r.~ Non-'-'M.rt.aFtllfii»Fsc~ T~Fiftllolrlf.arulty 
UndstgrediMIIet.liolll 
"""""'""" 
Non-t•nur.SMIIIFICUI!)' Tttll.nCIM... F-=utty 

·--
10 •o ao too .. 
.,...,_.... 
Gr.r:luat. F.mas. Ill 
frrfan.1enurMIF«nnltFaeuty 74 T-...:!FimiiiFacutty 11 
"---~~" 
" 
10 IOO"JI, 


OgUPB 1O:PBPCBDIBUB OfRIIS/IOIIIIBDII fxplll'illnc/ng BIIXUBI IIBI'BIImBnt by LBVBI Of Authlll'lty oflhll OIIBndsP, by Bubi/POIIP 
By someone lo authority: By Someone you bave authority over: By a peer: 
Sample Size: Facuhy--426, Sludem=426 Sample Size: Facully =404, Sludcnl=87 Sample Size: Facuhy=426, Studcnl=474 Females=330, Male;610 Femalc=l37, Malc=389 Female=325, Male-600 

22A T•ulng. )olcM 

..
10

20 

20 215 30 31 40 4& .. 
I 10 U 20 21i :JO H 40 '~""' 10 u 20 21 30 26 40 411 "" 
18~N.dill.. )4B~r•,a.t•
22B PrHIUnl. dllM 
.,,_ 
,._ 
...._. 
..-... 
0 
..,_, 
..."""" 





I 10 11 20 U 30 .U CO U% 
I I 0 11 20 21 30 31 CO 41 ... 22C L•n•"'· Clll 
6 \0 16 20 .25 30 !Hi 40 u .. 220...._...,....... 
I TO U 20 2~ lO ll 40 45 'II. 

..._

........ 
......., 


I 10 11 20 :U )D II 40 41 ...
6 10 II 20 21 SO U CO ..... 

22ET~~ 
...__ .. 
.......... 
.._ 0 
...""""I·

~_,....,...........,............,..............,_,....,.......j 
I I 0 II 20 2&,_ JO U 40 41 ... 
22FPr...uN,IftOf'l
liP-., 1-. 

......... 
.._ 
AIIIYdln• 
D 

I 10 I~ 70 2!!o 30 36 40 .U 'II. 
00--­
..,_
..­
........ 
.._ 
Mf~ 
0
,.,_ 

0 • 10 11 20 u 30 :us co 41 ...
·I • I 14 II 24 21 U U 44"' 
100% 









Accent 
Monday, December 9, 1991 page 9 

Bogus Toad does some "Earth Jamming" as part of Students for Environmental Action's program to promote environmental awareness. 
Rhythm with reason 
Earth Jam '91 encourages environmental awareness 
By TONY POPANZ 
Accent Writer 
Four area bands rocked center stage in Stepan Center Saturday for Earth Jam '91, a boisterous celebration sponsored by Students for Environmental Action (SEA) to conclude Earth Week. 
Campus bands, such as The Generics, Bogus Toad, Jasmine Groove, and Dysfunction rattled the walls of Stepan, drawing people in from around campus for the second consecutive year. 
Inside, there were booths sponsored by SEA that helped combine education with the established entertainment. 
"The main purpose of Earth Jam is to bring up awareness of environmental issues. Bands draw in people, who may go to our information booths," explained Courtney McGovern, chairwoman of Earth Jam. 
Anton Salud, co-president of SEA, was instrumental in looking after the event. "Earth Jam is a get­together. It's a chance to relax and enjoy the time, while increasing awareness of environmental concerns," said Salud. 
He said that the purpose ·was simply that. There was no intention to profit from the event. The two dollar admission charge was only to pay for the overhead costs of the band, he explained. 
"We need to get across to students that what they do now, and especially what they do after graduation will affect the environment. All of us have to do something. It is not someone else's problem," said Salud. 
In its third year, SEA stresses public education, especially that of youngsters. Its philosophy maintains that all of the earth's resources are limited, and that to survive, we must reduce, reuse, and recycle, said Salud. 
The organization formed an outreach program for elementary schools in order to teach youngsters that everyone makes some effect on the environment, said Salud. 
"We can make an effect without it being negative," maintained Salud, "Kids are pushing parents. They realize it's their world also, and don't want it trashy when it comes time for them to run it." 
We are a society of supercon­sumers, we think nothing of, say picking up five to ten more napkins than we need in the cafeteria, said Salud. We have unlimited wants in a limited world, he added. 
"It's a bunch of little things we need to do, such as taking a shorter shower, recycling, turning off the faucet as we brush our teeth, and using no more than what we need," explained Salud. 
Salud explained his intimate involvement with the organization. "Do it for my kids. Do my part for my posterity," he said. 

'Addams Family' keeps audiences laughing 

By ELIZABETH HAYES 
Movie Critic 
It's silly. It's highly commer­cialized. It's basically sugared cereal for the silver screen. And it's great! I haven't been this entertained by a modern screwball comedy since "Spaceballs." 
Are you surprised? Does "The Addams Family" proliferation of gimme-laughs and the smug assurance its makers have that it will gross zillions of dollars preclude it from achieving some form (or other) of cinematic greatness? Of course not. 
Huge commercial successes that look like garbage on the outside ("Terminator 2," for example) have done it. Why can't morbid comedy follow suit? 
The amazing thing is that it achieves this wonderful result without any major stars. The one immediately recognizable actor, Christoper Lloyd who plays Uncle Fester, may be well-known, but he is not a star. Maybe this is why the flick is so good. 
There is a certain beauty in 
the relative anonymity of the 
actors. The absence of the dis­
traction of "star power" makes 
it easier for the viewer to 
concentrate on the sometimes 
superbly simple, sometimes 
fascinatingly complicated gags 
in this film. 
For the uninitiated, "The Ad­dams Family" is based on the classic television series of the same name. All the same char­acters are back: Gomez and Morticia, their children ·Wednesday and Pugsley, the butler Lurch, Morticia's mother, 
The Addams Family 
* * * 1/2 (out of five) 

Gomez's brother Fester, and the perennial favorite, the disembodied hand Thing. 
There is even the return of the slimy family lawyer, Tully, a reference to the long-dead Uncle Knicknack, and old Kitty, the "guard cat," who can be heard from offscreen. 
The plot revolves around the return of a man who looks much like Uncle Fester (but is he?) and the evil Tully's loan­shark scheme to steal the Ad­dams fortune. Trite and stupid, yes, but that's not the point. The point is the laughs along the way. 
Gomez (played by Raul Julia) captivates the audience at once with his hilarious physical com­edy. No one living, including Chevy Chase, has the potential to generate more laughs with­out speaking a word. 
His timing and voice quality are perfect for comedy. He turns a good joke into a really great one. At one point Thing (who's preposterous presence is enough to warrant a chuckle) is communicating frantically with Gomez in sign language. 
He is trying to tell Gomez of the danger into which Morticia has fallen. Gomez tries to read the hurried signing, becomes exasperated, and says "It's terrible when you stutter." Incongruous as it may sound, it doesn't get a lot better than this in: cinema comedy. This is an example of ingenuity and light­hearted humor that hasn't been seen since the real screwballs of the 1930's. 
And don't ever, ever underes­timate the power of a sex sym­bol-male or female. Julia somehow has transformed himself into one, despite his unlikely looks and build. He proves once and for all that the ubiquitous "appeal" is created with the eyes, the voice, and presence -not necessarily ap­pearance. This is a refreshing and unexpected addition to this movie. 
It won't kill you to miss this film. If you hated the television series or can't stand unlikely comedy, you won't enjoy it. You will not miss the cinematic tri­umph of the century if you choose to stay away. However, keep in mind that you will not find many more movies out there with more, or better, laughs than this. 
The Observer 

page 10 Monday, December 9, 1991 

Giants lose to Eagles, 19-14; knocked out of playoffs 
The Giants continued their second-half struggles and fell to 7-7. Atlamta's win over the Rams eliminated the defending Super Bowl champs from the playoffs. 
"This is a tough loss," said quarterback Simms, who fin­ished 7 -for-23 for 100 yards. "I don't know what to say. We made the same mistakes we made all year. And that's what upsets everybody." 
Jeff Kemp replaced an injured Jim McMahon and rallied Philadelphia from an 11-point first-half deficit to its sixth straight victory. Kemp hit Calvin Williams for an 8-yard score and the Eagles (9-5) also got four field goals from Roger Ruzek and had four sacks to beat New York for the seventh time in the last eight meetings. The winning streak is the longest for Philadelphia since 1981. 
"Personally, I am not taking any great satisfaction in knocking off the Giants from a pedestal," Kemp said. "I am just pleased the Eagles are closer to their goal, which is a Super Bowl. We:ve got a long way to go." 
Matt Bahr, whose clutch kicking helped New York win the title last season, missed 32­and 44-yard field goals in the second half. New York was limited to 151 yards in offense. 
Oilers 31, Steelers 6 

At Houston, the Oilers finally could be called champions after Pinkett's big game. AI Smith had a 70-yard fumble return for a touchdown, and the defense had seven sacks. 
Losses to Pittsburgh (26-14) and Philadelphia (13-6) the past two weeks kept the Oilers from wrapping up the title. They weren't going to stall again. 
"It's a great day for the Oilers," owner Bud Adams said. "This is our first legitimate and only Central Division champi­onship. 
"The offense came alive. I think this team showed today they're ready to come together and go to the Super Bowl." 
The Oilers (10-4) tied for the best record in the AFC Central in 1980 and 1990, but lost tiebreakers. The Oilers won di­vision titles in the AFL in 1960, 1961, 1962 and 1967. 
Gary Anderson's second field goal gave the Pittsburgh kicker 1,000 career points, the 19th player in NFL history to reach that plateau. 
Broncos 11, Browns 7 
At Cleveland, Denver secured at least an AFC wild-card spot · as John Elway threw for 221 yards and two touchdowns. The Broncos, 10-4 after going 5-11 last season, virtually eliminated the Browns (6-8) from a wild­card chance. 
Elway's first-quarter inter­ception set up Cleveland's only score. Then he threw touch­down passes of 30 yards to Michael Young and 6 to Vance Johnson despite a sore shoulder that limited Elway in practice this week. 
Denver sacked Bernie Kosar five times, intercepted him once and did not allow the Browns past midfield in the second half. Elway was sacked four times. 
The victory was the 1OOth in the regular season for coach Dan Reeves. 
Cowboys 23, Saints 14 
Slumping New Orleans blew a fourth-quarter lead once again, while host Dallas enhanced its wild-card chances. 
Steve B-euerlein, subbing for injured Troy Aikman, threw two touchdown passes for the Cowboys (9-5), who would make the playoffs by winning their last two games. 
The Saints (9-5 after starting 9-1) led 14-13 after Steve Walsh's 4-yard scoring pass to Gill Fenerty. Ken Willis kicked his third field goal of the game, from 40 yards, to give Dallas the lead. 
The Saints marched right back to the Dallas 37, where they went for it on fourth-and­eight. Walsh's pass was broken up by Bill Bates and Dallas clinched the game with a 63­yard drive to Tommie Agee's 4­

yard TD run. Dallas' Emmitt Smith rushed for 112 yards. 
Chiefs 20, Chargers 17, OT 
At Kansas City, Nick Lowery's 18-yard field goal in overtime -his 20th straight successful kick -kept Kansas City in strong position for the playoffs. The Chiefs (9-5) trailed 14-0 at halftime. 
Mark Vlasic, who came to Kansas City this year as a Plan B free agent from San Diego, replaced Steve DeBerg starting the second half and hit Harvey Williams with a 16-yard tou­chown pass for a 17-14 lead with 3:00 to play. San Diego (3­
11) tied it with John Carney's 27 -yard field goal with 11 sec­onds to play in regulation. 
In overtime, Barry Word ran 28 yards for a first down at the 1, and the Chiefs brought on Lowery. The Chargers had taken the ball at the San Diego 30 after a short punt. 
Bears 27, Packers 13 
At Chicago, Jim Harbaugh threw two touchdown passes to Wendell Davis and Brad Muster ran for two scores as Chicago (10-4) stayed atop the NFC Central. The Packers (3-11) lost their fifth in the last six games. 
Harbaugh completed 16 of 25 passes for 209 yards. Former Bears quarterback Mike Tomczak, whose job Harbaugh took, was treated roughly. He fumbled once, dropped a snap on a fourth-down play, was picked off once and sacked three times. 
Mike Ditka, like Reeves, won his tOOth-regular season game as a coach. 
Patriots 23, Colts 17, OT 
Riddled by injuries, the Patriots rallied from a 17-3 hole. They tied the score with seven seconds left in the fourth quarter on a 2-yard pass from Hugh Millen -who was sacked eight times -to rookie Ben Coates and Charlie Baumann's extra point. It was Coates' first NFL touchdown. 
Then, down to two wide re­ceivers, Millen found one of them, Michael Timpson, for a 45-yard TD to win it 8:55 into overtime. 
The Patriots (5-9) lost a pair of receivers -Irving Fryar on their first series with a leg bruise, and Greg McMurtry in the fourth with an ankle injury. 
The Colts (1-13) scored twice in 27 seconds late in the first half. Jeff George threw a 13­yard touchdown pass to Jessie Hester. Then, after a fumble recovery at the New England 1,. Eric Dickerson scored. 
A sparse crowd of 20,131 was the smallest to attend a non­strike Patriots game at Foxboro Stadium since they began playing there in 1971. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
Classifieds 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classitieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
$40,000/yr! READ BOOKS and TV GETAWAY WEEKEND 

GLEE CLUB Scripts. Fill out simple AIRLINE TICKET: CHICAGO TO KOONTZ HOUSE 
CHRISTMAS CONCERT 
"like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, DENVER ROUND TRIP. DATES BED 'N BREAKFAST Fri. Dec. 13 in Stepan @8:15 
NOTICES 

relaxing at home, beach, vacations. VARIABLE (OVER X-MAS BREAK). 
23 MILES SOUTH OF NOTRE Due to reduced seating, 
ACNE
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 CALL ANDY 283-1305 
DAME 

tickets will be sold for the first time 
Hour Recording 801-379-2925 586-7090 ever @ info desk in 

A NASTY FOUR 
TYPING AVAILABLE Copyright #IN 11 KEB. 
LaFortune for $1. 
287-4082 For sale: 
LEITER WORD 
Genesis cartridges Hey Kristy nice buns, that black 
Only 10 more days of HELL! HOUSEMATE WANTED: Share 2-John Madden Football $25 underwear with little flowers, 
If you had started
ALTERATIONS AND BR home with Grad Male. Avail Jan Tom Lasorda Baseball $20 was sexy!DRESSMAKING BY MARY CALL 1, 1992. FFI: Jeff 288-3878. Arnold Palmer Golf $20 
on clear Care Acne 
HURRY, HURRY AVOID THE 
259-8684. 
Altered Beast $15 
RUSH. PLACE YOUR What a bargain!!!! stronger than burt 
Treatment 30 days
CHRISTMAS GREETING 
SOCCER GOALKEEPER COACH Call x1471 PERSONALS EARLY. THE LASTWORD PROCESSING NEEDED. CALL KEN 277-4791. 
ago, you would be
ISSUE FOR THE OBSERVER IS256-6657 INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. FRIDAY, DEC. 13. 
clt-a.r of Acne today
MINOLTA X370 35mm Camera, Good rates. Save Money. Call me[ FOR RENT 50mm Lens, 2x Lens, flash, and for a quote 9:30-6:00, CHRISTMAS BREAK BUS to Ll, 
For free samples, 
more. Like new. $225, OBO. 233-289-1993. Office near campus. 
Lando Lives! I killed the Lizard KingNYC, and NJ STILL HAS ROOM! 
2344 after 5. 
and I do not want you to ever forget 
information on how
$110. VCR. Call Anthony Cornetta BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
it! at 1751! 219-291-7153 
ADOPTION: Proud parents of 
Clear Care's topical 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED adopted toddler eager to find 89 MERCEDES $200, newborn to join our family. Our SENIORS SENIORS 
medications work,
Now Renting. 3-Bedroom Apt. 86 vw $50 warm and stable home offers 
ILOST/FOUND I
Furnished. $200. /Mon. 

87 MERCEDES $100, security, lots of adoring relatives WEEKLY BULLETIN READY AT $150. Dept. Call 277-8866 65 MUSTANG $50. 
and a life full of love. Please call CAREER AND PLACEMENT FOR Tues/Sat. 10am/5pm. Choose from thousands starting Barb and Dave collect 513-751­
Call our Skin Care
INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS FOR **********HELP********** $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording 7077. 
FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING I GRABBED THE WRONG BLUE Reveals Details 801-379-2929 
Information Line
SEMESTER-SIGN UP NOW JACKET AFTER THE FARLEY­Near N.D. Copyright 
THROUGH WEDNESDAY, FISHER-CARROLL FORMAL AT cozy, furnished 2 bedrm apt. $285 
(800) 435-3533 
#IN11KJC. SUGAR BOWL PACKAGE 4 DAYS DECEMBER 11.
THE K of C. INSIDE WAS BUS. dep. ref. 288-7207 
3 NIGHTS SUPERDOME HYATT+ CARD FROM R&G MFG. CORP. IN 
4 TICKETS TO GAME. $1200 FLY ANYWHERE USALAKEVILLE, IN. CHRIS X4327. 
Need to sell: 1 way tic to LAX 
CALL ANDY 407-894-7489. $189 R/T. The 1992 Student Travel Nice So. Bend home, 5 mins from Dec 19 . x3720. 
Update is here. 24 hr. info. 716-383­
NO. Wshr/dryer, refrig, stove, 2168FOUND: A Pair of wire rimmed dishwasher, AIC & 

SENIORS SENIORS eyeglasses was found Sunday night garage. $420/mo.+dep. 
TICKETS 
RELIABLE CHILD CARE SOUGHT (12-1) on a walkway across from 232-8943 Mark. 
WEEKLY BULLETIN READY AT 
the JACC. If they're yours and ya CAREER AND PLACEMENT FOR Alumni couple seeks babysitter for 6 want 'em -call X3885!! 
ND ALUM SEEKS 2 REASONABLY 
INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS FOR mo. old infant, 9 Hrs/wk, min. NOW IS THE TIME TO RESERVE PRICED SUGAR BOWL TIX. (415) FIRST TWO WEEKS OF SPRING 
Exper-ience with infants preferred, 
FOR NEXT FALL. 579-1432. 
SEMESTER-SIGN UP NOW references required. Phone:LOST -THICK SILVER CHAIN with Two 4-BR furnished homes with 
THROUGH WEDNESDAY, 287-0260BLACK AND SILVER AHNK at security systems and washer/dryer. 
DECEMBER 11. BRIDGET'S SAT NOV 23. 259-7801 or 255-5852 for more Chp. Rndtrp. male tix. for sale, 
Need Ride to Pittsburgh for Christmas gift from . details. ND to Los Ang., 12/20 to 1/13; Christmas. Santa's sleigh is parents-serious sentimental value. 
x1558 full so I need help. 
Call J-P. 271-0742 No questions 
PART TIME SALES Call Eric X1026 asked 
Want to get off campus? Two 

REPRESENTATIVE WANTED TO bedroom, fully furnished, close to Spend New Year's in Florida I 
SELL NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL Garth Brooks is a GODII!!I!!!! 
campus. Available as of Jan 1. Call 

$2,400 Value! YEARBOOK, AND ANNUAL 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
LOST: x3791. 3 AT tix Indy to Miami PREVIEW EARN $10 FOR EACH 
DAYTONA BEACH -SfQ4
Lv ?am 12/25, Retrn 4pm 1/5 $50 MEMBERSHIP SOLD. 
5 and 7 NIGHTS 

MYTH: SEHUfiL
REDDISH-BROWN RABBIT FUR 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND _Sf2B
Price: $1,750. OUTSTANDING EARNINGS 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS
EARMUFFS 

HRRRSSMENT RND
2 AM'S FOR RENT ph (812) 448-3188 POTENTIAL, NO CAP ON 
STEAMBOAT ._Sf22
ONE EAR SLIGHTLY TORN 200 PER MONTH INCOME. IDEAL COLLECTABLE 
2, 5 AND 7 NIGHTS

RSSRULT RESULT
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE USE OF ALL UTILITIES AND GIFT ITEM FOR ALUMNI 
PANAMA CITY BEACH ._Sf22
FROM

IF FOUND PLEASE CALL ASK FOR PAUL 232-2794 
7 NIGHTS

AND SERIOUS COLLEGE 
PERSONAL
LISA AT X4862 

FORT LAUDERDALE ,,_SfJ6
SPORTS FAN. WE ARE 
R NEED FOR SEH. 
7 NIGHTS 

CELEBRATING OUR 10TH 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND ,~Sff9
4-6 Bed Am. Furn. House, New ANNIVERSARY IN PRODUCING 

5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
WANTED 

Carpet+ Vinyl Firs., Wash/Dry, Happy birthday Joe Roberts. 
QUALITY SPORTS 

REHLITY: SEHUHL 
MUSTANG ISLAND I ,_Sf2B
Alarm syst., Across From Bus Stop. 

PUBLICATIONS. IF YOU HAVE 
PORT ARANSAS

HHRHSSMENT fiND 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 
Best houses will be gone after X­THE CREATIVE ENERGY, AND 

Wanted: Drivers to take a 1987 Mas. 233'9947. 
nth Annual

HSSHULT RESULT
SALES ABILITY, CONTACT MIKE 
Celebration!

Camry auto to Seattle, WA; will pay 
I make a point of setting off bells for HERMAN AT 1-800-776-2695 TO 
FROM 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS
$100 plus gas; call 291-4608. 
my dates(Bad) SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW 
fl NEED FOR POWER
FOR SALE 

1·800·321·5911 
~~ 
~ .......__.._.,.~~ 

-----·--~---------------------------------------------­
Monday, December 9, 1991 The Observer page 11 

Men's hoops tries to get first win against Valparaiso Women's soccer 
By JENNIFER MARTEN starters from last year includ­champs return Sports Writer ing guard Tracy Gibson, for­
NEW YORK (AP) -When the ward Scott Morrison, and for-U.S. women's soccer team ar­
There's no place 
ward Jason rived home after winning the
like home, but the Markworth. first world championship, the
Notre Dame Gibson averaged players outnumbered the
basketball team won't 16.2 points a greeters.
be back at the JACC game last year, "There were about seven
until January 23. Morrison people there," forward Michelle 
averaged 7.4, 

Akers-Stahl said of Monday's
The Irish (0-3) are 
and Markworth 

arrival at JFK airport in New
headed to Valparaiso 4.8. Newcomers York.
to face the Crusaders for the Still, it didn't take away from
in a game that marks Crusaders 
the accomplishment of a 2-1
the start of a nine­include
Elmer Bennett victory over Norway in last
game roadtrip. Notre freshmen Lance weekend's final. 
Dame comes into the game Barker, Maury Leitzke, and 
"We didn't do it for others. We
fresh off a heartbreaking 84-81 Nolan Roberts. 
did it for ourselves. If we got
loss to Louisville and looking to 
frustrated about that every
put one in the win column. "We have a size advantage, time it happened, we wouldn'tbut they'll use their speed to be happy playing," Akers-Stahl"We have to get a victory," beat us," said Bennett. "I ex­said.
said Irish guard Elmer Bennett. pect a lot of hustle from them 
"We've gone many years
"It is a must win situation be­and I expect them to try and 
without a lot of money or
cause we came so close in the double team LaPhonso (Ellis) support," midfielder Shannon
last game." down low." 
Higgins said. "Our parents andSeniors Bennett and Daimon Notre Dame heads to families being over there, weSweet led the Irish with 27 and Valparaiso fresh off shooting 50 
were glad just to be able to
25 points respectively. Bennett percent for the first time this share it with them." 
(16.3 ppg) and Sweet (18.3 ppg) 
year. The Irish entered the 
The United States outscoredhave been leading the team Louisville game with four con­opponents 25-5. After beatingoffensively all year. Senior secutive halves of sub-50 per­Sweden, Japan and Brazil inLaPhonso Ellis has been a big cent shooting. Elmer and 
the round-robin phase, the
presence on the boards averag­Company shot only 45.5 percent American beat Taiwan 7-0 in
ing 12.3 points and 10 re­in the first period, but pulled 
the quarterfinals, Germany 5-2bounds per game for the Irish. the shooting percentage for the 
in the semifinals and then 
game up to 52.5 with a 61.5 
Norway.
Today's game marks the 34th percentage in the second half. 
"I play because I love the
meeting of these two teams. 
game," said Higgins, a 23-year­
Notre Dame holds a serious With a full road schedule 
old women's coach at Georgeadvantage in the series with a ahead, Notre Dame needs a win Washington. "I guess if we get32-2 lead. Last year, the Irish more now than ever. 
disappointed, it's because we
pulled out a 66-50 win at home. 
want other people to love theThe last time Valparaiso beat "We want to go out and get game as much as we do. Wethe Irish was in 1988 when the that first victory on the road," were received as one of the top Crusaders grabbed a 71-68 said Bennett. "If we get this, we 
teams there. Other countries
overtime victory. will prove we can win on the geared up to play the United
Valparaiso is returning three road." 
States. 
Bettis, Mirer named team co-MVP's; 53 earn monograms for year 
Special to the Observer A second-team All-American America pick by Football News, helped the Irish rank nationally CoSIDA District V Academic All­
selection by Football News, Mirer also ran for 306 yards all season in total offense, America pick in 1991, he boasts 
All-America fullback Jerome Bettis paced the Irish in rushing and nine touchdowns. His 2,423 rushing offense and scoring av­a 3.261 grade-point average as Bettis and record-setting quar­with 972 yards, the highest yards in total offense rank as erage. an economics major. terback Rick Mirer shared the single-season total since Allen Notre Dame's second-best all­Mihalko received the Nick Baker, a senior walk-on split MVP award, while offensive Pinkett's 1,100 in 1985. He set time total-behind only Joe Pietrosante Award. It was pre­end, claimed the guards Tim Ruddy and Mirko single-season Notre Dame Theismann's 2,813 from 1970. sented for the fourth year by Hesburgh/Joyce Hall of Fame Jurkovic, fullback Ryan records with his 20 combined Ruddy was named winner of vote of the players to the indi­Scholarship Award. The schol­Mihalko, offensive tackle touchdowns and his 120 overall the Student-Athlete of the Year vidual who best exemplified the arship award is presented an­Lindsay Knapp and split end points (finishing fourth nation­Award from State Farm and the courage, loyalty, teamwork, nually by the National Football Jeff Baker also won awards ally in scoring in final NCAA Mutual Broadcasting System dedication and pride of the late Foundation in the names of the Friday night at the 72nd annual statistics at 10.0 points per from among their weekly Irish All-America fullback University's former top two ex­Notre Dame Football Banquet game). winners from the 1991 (Pietrosante died of cancer on ecutives, Theodore Hesburgh sponsored by the Notre Dame Mirer, a 6-foot-2, 215-pound campaign. He has a 3.872 av­February 6, 1988). and Edmund Joyce. Club of Saint Joseph Valley. junior from Goshen, Ind .. estab­erage as a mechanical Mihalko, who also throws the As well, 53 members of the 
Bettis, a 5-foot-11, 247-pound lished a single-season record in engineering major. javelin as captain of the 1992 football squad were awarded sophomore from Detroit, 1991 with his 18 touchdowns Jurkovic earned tlte Lineman Notre Dame track team, ranks monograms at the banquet. 15 Mich.-along with Mirer-were passes. He ranks eighth na­of the Year Award from the as a four-year letterwinner seniors, 15 juniors, 19 sopho­voted the top individual Irish tionally in passing efficiency Moose Krause Chapter of the while serving as a special teams mores and four players by their teammates and after completing 132-of-234 National Football Foundation standout and reserve fullback. freshmen-Huntley Bakich, were presented the award by throws for 2,117 yards this and Hall of Fame. A first-team Knapp won the Student­Justin Goheen, Germaine the Notre Dame National year. All-America selection by the Athlete Award from the ND Holden and John Monogram Club. An honorable mention All-Walter Camp Foundatin, he Club of Saint Joseph Valley. A Taliaferro--were honored. 

2nd FLOOR 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 

Thank You 


The MCATis· When? 
T.alcE Kaplan OrTakeYour<lwus 

1717 E. South Bend Av_e. South Bend, IN lf6637 PHONE 219/27Z-4135 
----··­
-~~-­

page 12 The Observer Monday, December 9,1991 
Payto1n hopes to own an NFL team Cook 
continued from page 16

ST. LOUIS (AP) -Former said Payton was a perfect the group while trying to Chicago Bears superstar choice for this crucial task. finalize the sale of his rankings." Walter Payton is chasing a "He understands the Patriots shares to financially­One teammate Cook praises piece of an NFL expansion financial impact of operating strapped Victor Kiam. is sophomore forward Megan franchise with the same a football franchise," Clinton Still, Payton gives them Dalsaso. Delsaso broke the tenacity that made him the said. "He brings many things someone special. Saint Mary's single season league's all-time leading to the table and he's so great He's one of the greatest scoring record by netting 14 rusher. with people. You have to say players in NFL history, he's a points and five assists this S~~a­
The man they used to call he's a real asset in any member of the Chicago Bears son. Delsaso received second "Sweetness" is operating as direction you look at." board of directors, and last team all-region recognitions for the point man for the St. The St. Louis group is but not least, he's aiming to her efforts, the first sophomore Louis NFL Partnership, and strong enough without become the first black owner at Saint Mary's to receive such there's nothing symbolic Payton. in the league. recognition. about his role. He's a serious St. Louis figures to be one Professional sports has "There has been a remark­player and he knows the of the favorites to get an been under fire to add able improvement between bottom line, just like he expansion franchise for the minorities to front offices Megan's freshman and sopho­always knew where the first­1994 season to replace the since the unfortunate more years. She is more confi­down marker was as he Cardinals, who left for remarks by then-Dodgers dent and more assertive on the racked up those 16,726 Phoenix after the 1987 vice president Al Campanis field. Her speed and ability has yards over 13 seasons. season. The selling points in 1988 that blacks "lacked enabled her to pass the oppo­
"When I played football, it are persuasive: the necessities" for nent's defense," said Cook. was basically a business," • They're the largest TV management jobs. Former Coach Van Meter, while Payton said. "It got me market without a team. Green Bay Packers great pleasep. with both of the ac­where I am today. I don't • Attendance was at 90 Willie Davis, who's part of complishments by these two miss playing. I miss being percent of capacity, above the Memphis expansion players, believes that success of around the guys, the the league average, in the group, also has a chance to the season is a result of the en­camaraderie, the sponta­nine of the Cardinals' last 10 break through the color tire team. neous humor, but that's seasons in St. Louis. barrier. "Kelly's main strength is that about it. Football was a 9-to-• Money is already in the The inclusion of Payton and she makes things happen and 5 job for me." bank for a $250-million, Davis show that those that makes her teammates bet­
Now his playing field is the 70,000-seat domed stadium seeking franchises are aware ter. Megan and Stacey gave us boardroom. On Wednesday, with construction scheduled Commissioner Paul a great 1-2 punch, which Payton will make a presenta­to begin in the spring. Tagliabue and some owners Megan had to adapt to," ex­tion to the league on behalf • The group is well-heeled seem committed to putting plained coach Van Meter. " This of the St. Louis group as the financially, with James Busch minorities in positions of is the best team I've had ever. NFL begins the paring-down Orthwein, rumored to be one power. But Payton downplays There were 19 participants out process from the 10 oflthe richest men in the race in the decision-making here supporting one another competing cities. country, serving as chairman process. Kelly Cook and that is a tribute to all of 

"Hopefully I'll be able to do of the board. Another "It doesn't matter what soccer ~u·.;~~,___---~­them." a good job," Payton said. investor is Fran Murray, color you are, it matters the Another member of the current minority owner of integrity you have, how you HAPPY 20th group, Anheuser-Busch beer the New England Patriots, carry yourself and what you 
BIRTHDAY, KATIE 
distributor Jerry Clinton, although he's currently out of have to offer," Payton said. 
the game. This was the fresh­hockey team than Lake Forest," man winger's first hat trick of commented Schafer. "Last
Hockey 
his Irish career. weekend we were just focused. 
Does this mean
"It was a nice effort on his Tonight our focus faded in andcontinued from page 16 part," complimented Schafer. out like a long distance radio 
you can stay out
"He (Rushin) was right where station. It could have been ashut out the Foresters. The de­
fense killed four Lake Forest he was supposed to be and more decisive victory." past wiener circlepulled the trigger at the right Notre Dame did improve on
power plays, while the offense 
time." its already spectacular power
added two goals. John Rushin hours?
Lake Forest would score one play percentage, boosting it toand Sterling Black would add late goal to get within in two, 29.6 percent with three powertheir second goals of the game but that would be as close as play goals in four attempts thisin the second period to give the they would get, making the fi­weekend.
Irish a 5-3 advantage. 
nal6-4. The Irish evened their record Rushin would complete the Schafer was somewhat dis­to 6-6-1, and will facehat trick in third period, on a appointed in the Irish effort. Princeton at home for twopower play wit.h 11:19 left in "We were clearly a better games this weekend. 
TAKING THE RONKIN LSAT COURSE SHOULD BE 

U:ittTS \ 
,.,.,.,.·.,.,.-,.,, <\lliilbd~Cin1i~t!n1)!1 8Jr,alk1a~•t, ChGnllpaqne. Re~ep1ion{ Seafood
ALAW. 

·ddle t:ruise. 
WE'LL MAKE SURE You MAKE IT. 
10 Students Per Class 40 Hours Of Live Instruction Live Tutorial National800 Telephone Helpline 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
EDUCI"IOMIL GROUP
•
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 
Welcome to New Orleans & The Sugar Bow 1 

Irish Hdqr. at O'F 1aherty's Irish Pub 514 Toulouse Str. --French Quarter 
Live Irish music & 
For reservations Call
singing -harp & 
Iugar Bowl 

504 • 246 • 2400 or11ckels AYailable
miscellaneous 

1··800 • 348 • 2299 Ir1 sh dr1 nks 





Accent 
Monday, September 7, 1992 page 9 
Personal 
•

expressions 
By SHANNON SCHWARZ 
Accent Writer 
"It seems that Saint Mary's College has seen more excitement in the past week than it has in the past 15 years," said Saint Mary's Junior, Joy Rathnau. This excitement stems from the sudden controversy sparked by the personal expression of visiting artist, Marcia Kaplan. 
The campus has been buzzing about her sculptures since they arrived. It is, therefore, not surprising that over 200 people turned out at O'Laughlin Auditorium on Friday afternoon to hear what Kaplan had to say in re­sponse to the treatment of her artwork. 
The sculptures initiating this controversy consisted of four large, bulbous, polyurethane works, which were displayed prominently on the lawn outside of LeMans Hall. Their 
'I don't care if you love my work or if you hate it ...just so long as you experience it.' 
-Marcia Kaplan 

blatant sexual imagery offended many of the staff and students and resulted in a campus-wide outcry. 
The four sculptures were removed only one day after their initial display without the permission of the artist. Administrators felt compelled to relocate the four sculptures after one was destroyed by vandals. The moti­vation behind this action, they said, was both to protect the works and also to alleviate the outcry incurred by their display. 
A prominent artist in the Chicago area, 66-year-old Kaplan said, "I don't 
Artist Marcia Kaplan addressed the controversy over her sculptures 
that they were personal expressions and needed no other interpretation. "Verbal expression isn't saying anything . The work has to say it," Kaplan said. 
Kaplan stated also that she was pleased her works had sparked such strong feelings and controversy. She was delighted in the reaction and flattered that the administration felt strongly enough to remove her sculp­tures without her permission. 
However, Kaplan did say that she was upset that her works were no longer going to be on display outside. "My works are meant for the outside where they can be sneered at, loved or kicked, if necessary," she said. 
During Kaplan's presentation, slides of her previous works were shown illustrating her love of both form and the environment in which it is displayed. Her works were depicted in backyards, along sidewalks, and even lawn chairs. "I have a flair for the outdoors; that's where my works belong," she said. 
The audience was very receptive during the entire talk and no attacks were made upon Kaplan concerning her artistic style. In fact, many in the audience seemed reassured by the artist's calm confidence in her own work. "I had the pleasure and the hard work of doing it. That's where I get my satisfaction," Kaplan stated. 
Two of the four sculptures may now be viewed in Hannes Gallery at Moreau Center for the Arts. 
An additional forum is also being planned for Tuesday, September 15 at 
6:30 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. It is titled "Art Censorship on campus: What's the problem?" The forum is open to the Notre Dame and the Saint 
no other actual 
Mary's community. care if you love my work or if you hate She provided 

it ... just so long as you experience it." explanation for her works, saying only 
Shortchanged females 
Study proves that there is bias toward women in the classrooms 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
Accent Writer 
Bias exists everywhere in so­ciety, but according to an American Association of University Women (AAUW) study, sex discrimination may be the most damaging and prevalent form of bias that exists in the American classrooms. 
The AAUW report has affirmed that the educational system shortchanges girls, said Sister Miriam Cooney, associate professor of mathematics at Saint Mary's. "It's no longer do they or don't they," she said. 
The AAUW, along with the Wellesley College Center for Research, released the study "How Schools Shortchange Girls"last spring, which concluded that females receive significantly less attention from their teachers than their male classmates; African­American females have fewer interactions with their teachers than white females; and reports of sexual harass­ment of females by their male classmates are increasing. 
The AAUW, which has studied the problem and publicized its findings, is now working to educate people on how to remove the bias from our educational system. 
One of the AAUW's first at­tempts in the Michiana area to educate persons about the problems that exist in the educational system is an hour­long panel discussion and a feature segment on gender bias entitled "Shortchanging Girls, Shortchanging America" to air on WNIT, Channel 34 this week. 

Among the panelists is Cooney, and featured in the segment is associate dean of faculty at Saint Mary's , Patrick White. 
"The AAUW has done a great job in the study, publication and now the classes to educate and change the American educational system," said Cooney. 
Almost everyone has been affected by bias at some point in their lives,said Cooney. "Everyone has been discrimi­nated against, if they say they haven't then they just haven't noticed it," she said. The problem that exists in American society and education "is that society is dominated and geared toward males," Cooney said. 
White stated that it simply is not enough to know that this discrimination exists. "One thing everyone is trying to do in education at all levels is help students imagine a future, but saying you can be anything you want is not enough, that is encouragement without empowerment," said White. "Now we need to encourage and empower students with the qualities to succeed," he said. 
According to Alice McKee, president of the AAUW Educa­tional Foundation, in her intro­duction to the report, "A well­educated work force is essential to the country's economic development, yet girls are systematically discouraged from courses of study essential to their future employability and economic well-being." 
Cooney said that students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are the lucky ones. "Here (at Saint Mary's) and at Notre Dame the students are the privileged ones and the survivors of the educational system who have been given every opportunity." 
"One of the things we try to do in the liberal arts atmosphere of Saint Mary's is keep our emphasis on teaching," she continued. "We don't want them leaving here anxious or ignorant of their abilities," said Cooney. 
The special will air today at 7 p.m. and again Saturday, Sept. 12 at 4 p.m. 
page 10 
Four 
continued from page 16 
point, except that for a brief Irish lead at 9-5. Angela Salvatore broke a 10-10 tie with a hard stuff into the Irish backcourt, and Melody Sobczak came on to serve and put the Irish away 15-10. 
Game five was played in a sudden death format, in which each serve counted for a point. The Wildcats took an early 8-2 lead, before the Irish rallied with seven straight points to go ahead 9-8, lead by the serving of Molly Stark. 
Kentucky fought back, re­gaining the lead, 9-11, but from behind 11-13, Notre Dame put together three quick scores to set them up with game point, with Janelle Karlan to serve. Cynthia May won the game with a stuffing block that found floor on Kentucky's side of the net. 
"We showed a lot of poise be­ing down 8-3 in the final game," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. 
The Irish were down against Kentucky in a similar situation, game five and trailing, in last year's NIVC but came up short despite a late rally. 
"The girls' attitude was that they almost came back last year and knew they could do it, 

The Observer Monday, September 7, 1992 
Colts, Bucs start to turn it around 
(AP)-At Indianapolis, every 59 minutes, 59 seconds to three minutes for a 1-yard time Bernie Kosar looked up, he overcome the defending NFC touchdown run by Reggie saw Chip Banks or rookies Central champions. Rivers.Producing the 20th Quentin Coryatt (two sacks) and Jim Harbaugh took the Bears victorious fourth-quarter Steve Emtman in his face. The to their ninth consecutive comeback drive of his 10-year 11 sacks were a career-worst season-opening win on a 6-yard career, Elway hit on passes of for Kosar, who threw two touchdown pass to Tom Waddle 15 yards to Mark Jaekson and 9 interceptions, one by Banks. with one second left that and 48 yards to rookie Arthur 
"It means we're working in capped a 74-yard drive in the Marshall to set up the clinching the right direction," Banks said. last 71 seconds. The win was score. 
Rookie Rodney Culver rushed clinched on a fourth-and-5 play for one touchdown and Mark that capped a wild final 10 Vikings 23, Packers 20 Herrmann passed to Cleveland minutes. 
At Green Bay, the Vikings had Plan B reject Reggie Langhorne Barry Sanders ran through several heroes as Dennis Green 
for another. three Chicago tacklers for a 43­won his NFL coaching debut. 
"The defense was great. It yard touchdown and a 17-10 Terry Allen, who set up a takes pressure off you," said lead. But Kevin Butler's 38-yard score with a 51-yard run in the Herrmann, subbing for injured field goal cut Chicago's deficit to fourth quarter, had a 45-yarderJeff George. ''I've never seen 17-13. 
on a slippery field in overtime 
our defense come after a guy Bills 40, Rams 7 
that led to Fuad Reveiz's 
like that. I feel sorry for 

At Buffalo, James Lofton winning 25-yard field goal. Bernie." became the alltime leader in receiving yards with 13,091, 49ers 31, Giants 14 Bucs 23, Cardinals 7 passing Steve Largent with a 4­
At East Rutherford, N.J., the At Tampa, even the offense, yard catch in the final minutes. 
NFL's hottest team at the 
which used no huddle most of Lofton also had his 700th conclusion of the '91 schedule 
the time, was effective. Vinny career catch in the game. 
kept right going in '92. 

Testaverde passed for 167 The real star for Buffalo was -San Francisco won its last six 
yards and one touchdown, Thurman Thomas. the 1991 
games a year ago, five behind Reggie Cobb scored on a 1-yard NFL Most Valuable Player. 
Steve Bono. It also was 5-0 in 
run and Ken Willis kicked three Thomas scored four times, preseason.
field goals. three on runs, and rushed for With Joe Montana on injuredThe defenders yielded just 61 103 yards. 
reserve and Steve Youngyards rushing and Timm 
sustaining a slight concussion Rosenbach was knocked out by Broncos 17, Raiders 13 
Sunday, Bono guided the Niners Dotson's hit. 
At Denver, more magic from to victory. Tom Rathman caught 
John Elway. three touchdown passes, two 
Bears 27, Lions 24 The Broncos' star quarterback from Bono, who hit 15 of 22 for 
At Chicago, the Bears needed drove them 85 yards in the final 187 yards and two scores. 
"Brown said. 

"They won the match on de­fense, " said Kentucky coach Kathy DeBoer. "I was really happy with our play. We are a relatively young team. 
"We hit good balls, but they kept coming up with them." 
Against Kentucky, Christy Peters and Jessica Fiebelkorn lead the Irish with 36 and 31 digs, respectively. May got 12 block assists and her match­winning solo block. 
Janelle Karlan tallied 14 kills on 23 attempts, as did Peters on 62 tries en route to being named tournament MVP. 
Also named to the All­Tournament Team were May and Fiebelkorn from Notre Dame and Salvatore and Robinson from the Wildcats. 
In the other match of the night, Louisville scraped past the IU Hoosiers 10-15, 9-15, 15-6, 15-1115-9. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
....__N_o_T_I_c_e_s_ ___.l 
For more information and 
assistance regarding the 
investigation of financing, business 
opportunities and work-at-home 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 
urges its readers to contact the 
Better Business Bureau of 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
9121 or 800-439-5313. 
TRIVIA QUIZ: WHO IS THE SAINT 
MARY'S ACCOUNTING 
PROFESSOR CELEBRATING HIS 
FIFTIETH BIRTHDAY ON 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 8? 
Hint: He is a former radio disk 
jockeyand sports announcer. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! 
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard 
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
••••••• Appalachian Seminar•••••••• 
Take part in an extraordinary 
opportunity to learn about yourself 
in the Appalachian region of 
Kentucky and West Virginia over 
your tall break. 
Applications now available al the 
esc. 
Important information meeting on September 8. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
***LOST*'*LOST***LOST*** 
A SET OF KEYS WITH A SWISS ARMY KNIFE ATIACHED. YOU CAN KEEP THE KNIFE IF YOU REALLY WANT IT, BUT I NEED MY KEYS PLEASE! 
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's. Please call 284-4308. 
MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE 
FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE 
FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE 
AND OWN CAR. PART TIME 
DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­
2201. 
EXTERIOR PAINTERS Experienced Student Painters needed to paint South Bend area homes. Full or Part Time. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 1 (800)626-6267 "painting America's homes coast to coast" 
IsHA~?,v~~o~,~~' 
FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM RENTALS. ALSO APT. & BEDROOMS.257-91 01. 
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES.........$200 86 vw.......................... $ 50 87 MERCEDES.......... $100 65 MUSTANG............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
SR TIX APPLICATION FOR SALE 45 YARD LINE BEST OFFER CALL MARTY X1165 
Pontiac 86 Sunbird $2000 287-6419 ask tor damien or stop by at CCMB308 
***TWO TICKETS FOR They Might Be Giants, face value••• call x4059--Thanks 
TICKETS 
Married Student Ticket Booklet 
for sale: NO ID REQUIRED 
NO ID REQUIRED 
Call BOB 287-9118 
My dad still needs Michigan tickets or other home gamesll!lll!! PLEASE HELP-Mike X1161 
PLEASE HELP: My dad would like to see one Michigan game before I graduate and need tickets. Call Mike 283-1161 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
OKAY, I'M BEGGING... My parents will pay big for Mich. tickets! $$$ Call #4419. 

Have 4 Penn St. GA Will trade tor 4 Mich GA 
Call Bo at 3502 
WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­
MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN 
DESPERATE NEEDII 708-843­6947. 
" I NEED 1 G.A. FOR THE " PERDUE GAME. PLAESE HELP. CALL MARY AT x4416 
NEED TIX FOR MICH. & PENN BADLY. 284-541 0. 
De$$perately $$eeking ticket$$ to ALL home football game$$... Call Sean*2263 
Need tix for P.S.U. Mich, Pur $$bob x3398 
$$ Need Mich Tic $$ GA or Student -Name Your Price Call Jim 273-2969 
$$NEED 4 MICH GAs BADLY$$ CALL AMY x2609 
Desperately seeking GAs tor Michigan and Stanford 1111111 Please call Liz at x3783 or x2184. 
WILL TRADE 2 MICH GAs FOR 2 
PENN ST. GAs. MATI MICKLE 
(713) 332-6709. 
NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY. 234-8306 OR 800-323-7687. 
N.D. ALUM FROM MEXICO RETURNING FOR MICH GAME. NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 233-1296. 
BIG$$$$$ FOR STANFORD GA OR STUDENT TICKET. NEED ONE. CALL DAVE AT 3213.$$$$$ 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S AND $$$$$ FOR THREE STANFORD GA'S IN ROW. CALL DAVE AT 3213. MAKE EASY$$$ 
FOR SALE: 4 U2 TICS SEPT 16 CHICAGO MIKE #1672 
Selling student ticket book with all home games (section 30 seats!) Make otter: 287-6355 
NEED 1 Student Michigan ticket Call Chris at 283-2727 
NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY, OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU, BOST. COLL. OR PENN ST. GA'S. 232-0817 
I need three Mich GA's more desperately than everyone else in this paper!! I Liscence to spend ungodly amounts of money. Contact Bill at 299-1845. 
WANTED: THREE MICHIGAN TIX C'MON, LOOK OUT FOR A DOMER! -JEFFERSON X1422 
HELP HELP HELPI I NEED A BOOK OF STUDENT TICKETS -tor my over the hill Alumni Brother. If you want to sell yours, CALL BLAS AT X2645. 
will trade 2 STAN GA for 2 PSU GA or STD x1645 
Badly need 2 student or GA tickets to Michigan. Will pay good money. x2714. 
I desperately need 1 Michigan GA tor someone coming all the way from California to see the game. Please call Maria at X 2126 or 3219. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 If 
I have MARRIED student tix book 
Need to sell Marty 1165 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111!111!1!!1!1!1111111 Ill 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111!11111 II 
I have MARRIED studenttix book 
Need to sell Marty 1165 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Ill 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$ $$$1 DEPERATELY N E E D 6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$ please, please, please, please 
CALL X2454 

Will pay big bucks tor ND -MICH 
G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561. 
HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's NEED MICH and/or WHOLE STUD. BOOKS 288-1027 -MARK 
WANT TO MAKE A BUCK? I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO AT x3587. 
HELP!! Need 1 MICH GA Call Scott at x4243 Good price 
PLEASE PLEASE. I NEED MICH. GA'S. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM, OR 272-3753 AFTER 5. SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL. 
NEED 2 MICH. GA'S. CALL 708­251-4502 & LV. MESSAGE, OR MARK RUST AT 708-982-1776. 
NEED TIX TO ND-MICH x3373 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Will pay crazy cash tor ND -Michigan GA's. Call Paul at 289-6648. 
DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET JUST ONEil Student or GA. Call Tim x4116 
HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD NDIMICHIGAN GA's 2773097 
HELPI NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S CALL JOE X1560 
NO Alum needs 2 reasonably priced Michigan tix. Please call (408)492­0660 X248 or (415)579-1432. 
N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S. WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY OTHER HOME GAME GA'S. PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE. 
LOTS of $$$1111! I want TICKET BOOKLETS! call #1756 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need Michigan student tickets and 2 BYU GA's. Call Molly 284-4377 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
hey! i need 3 STANFORD g.a.'sl i have buck$! call katie x4907 
FOUR FRIENDS OF A PLAYER ON THE '88 TEAM NEED TIX FOR MICHIGAN GAME. THEY REALLY WANT THE TIX BAD. CALL 1075 AND ASK FOR MARK ORQUAALUDE 
NEED MICH. STUDENT ­BILL X2187 DESPARATELY NEED 3 MICH TIX. WILL PAY TOP$. KJ X1302 
WANTED: MICH. AND PURDUE TIX. CALL MIKE @1151 & LEAVE MSGE. 
Wanted: MICH & PURD TIX. Call Mike@ 1151 & Leave Msg. 
RICH ALUM WILL EXCHANGE WIFE AND/OR $$ FOR MICH TIX CALL (914) 937-0907 
Stdt & married stdl Booklets For SALE 272-7034 
Will trade 2 STANFORD GA's and $$ 
!"';;~~~~~~ 
$$$MICHIGAN$$$ WILL TRADE RESV. AT SB HOLIDAY INN ON 9/11 & 9/12 FOR 2 GA'S. CALL 283-2454. 
Hey Niff 

PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION: The Children's Community Co-op is now filling its morning classes for ages 3-5 and also the Toddler Playschool. This is a co-op with a growing popularity within the Notre Dame Community. Call for more into: Peg Moody 234-2320 (mornings). 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! 
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS Sept. 10 at Stepan 8:00p.m. Tix on sale at Lafortune Info desk. $8 students-$'12 Gen. Public 
MARGE 

Need BC tix, student and GAs. Call 283-4271 
Married Student Ticket Booklet 
tor sale: 

NO ID REQUIRED 
NO ID REQUIRED 
Call BOB 287-9118 
NEED BOSTON COLLEGE GA! WILL PAY HUGE GIGANTIC BUCKS-CALL X4984 
Hello Amanda! 

We are still very perplexed over 
the bull situation. Are you sure 
about that process? Maybe it is an 
Irish thing that only the Limerick 
native would understand. 
Have a happy day, sunshine! 
Love, M and C 


·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 11 The Observer Monday, September 7, 1992 

NFL STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE  BASEBALL  
East  w  L  T  Pet  PF  PA  Home  Away  AFC  NFC  Dlv  American League TORONTO BLUE  JAYS-Recalled  Bob  AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division  
Buffalo lndnplis Miami N England NY Jets Central Pttsburgh Cincnnati Cleveland  1 1 0 0 0 1 1 0  0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  1.000 1.000 .000 .000 .000 1.000 1.000 .000  40 14 00 00 17 29 21 3  7 3 00 00 20 24 3 14  1-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 .o-o-o 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-1-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0  0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0  1-0-0 o-o-o 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  MacDonald and David Weathers, pitchers, and Domingo Martinez, first baseman, from Syracuse of the International League. Purchased the contract ol Doug Linton, pitcher, from Syracuse. National Laague ATLANTA BRAVES-Activated Alejandro Pena, pitcher, from the 15-day disabled list. Purchased the contract of Mark Davis, pitcher, from Macon of the South Atlantic League.  Toronto Baltimore Milwaukee Delran New York Boston Cleveland  w 79 77 73 64 64 63 63  L 58 59 63 73 73 73 73  Pet .577 .566 .537 .467 .467 .463 .463  GB 1 112 5 112 15 15 15112 15112  L10 z-7-3 z-8-2 6-4 3-7 z-5-5 z-6-4 4-6  Streak Won 3 Lost 1 Lost 1 Won 1 Won 1 Lost 1 Won 3  Home 45-24 36-29 42-26 31-38 35-33 39-29 37-34  Away 34-34 42-29 31-37 33-35 29-40 24-44 26-39  
Houston  0  0  .000  24  29  0-1-0  0-0-0  0-1-0  0-0-0  0-1-0  LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Activated Dave  West Division  
West Denver Kan. City LA Raidrs San Diego Seattle  1 1 0 0 0  0 0 1  0 0 0 0 0  1.000 1.000 .000 .000 .000  17 24 13 10 3  13 10 17 24 21  1-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-1-0  0-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  1-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0 0-1-0 0-1-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  1-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0 0-1-0 0-0-0  Anderson, infielder, from the 15-day disabled list. PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Purchased the contract of Dave Clark, outfielder, from Buffalo of the American Association. FOOTBALL  Oakland Minnesota Chicago Texas California  w 80 75 72 67 62  L 56 62 63 72 75  Pet .588 .547 .533 .482 .453  GB 5112 71/2 141/2 18 112  L10 4-6 5-5 5-5 4-6 4-6  Streak Won 1 Lost 3 Lost 1 Lost 1 Won 1  Home 41-27 39-29 43-25 31-38 35-32  Away 39-29 36-33 29-38 36-34 27-43  
NATIONAL CONFERENCE East  National Football League DALLAS COWBOYS-Agreed to terms with Mark Slepnoski, center, on a three-year contract.  Kansas Cijy Seattle  61 56  75 81  .449 .409  19 24112  4-6 z-4-6  Won Lost  1 4  37-31 33-37  24-44 23-44  
Phila  w 1  L 0  T 0  Pet 1.000  PF 15  PA 13  Home 1-0-0  Away 0-0-0  AFC 0-0-0  NFC 1-0-0  Dlv 0-0-0  DENVER BRONCOS-Waived John Sullins, linebacker. Activated Cedric Tillman, wide receiver,  NATIONAL LEAGUE East Division  
Dallas Washingtn NYGiants Phoenix Central Chicago Minnesota Tampa Bay  0 0 0 0 1 1 1  0 0 0 0 0  0 0 0 0 0 0 0  .000 .000 .000 .000 1.000 1.000 1.000  00 00 14 7 27 23 23  00 00 31 23 24 20 7  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0  from the developmental squad. NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Put John Tice, tight end, on injured reserve. Activated Toi Cook, cornerback, and Eric Martin, wide receiver, from the exemption list. NEW YORK GIANTS-Activated Carl Banks, linebacker. and Erik Howard, nose tackle. Placed Corey Widmer, linebacker, and George Rooks.  Pittsburgh Montreal Chicago St. Louis New York Philadelphia  w 79 75 68 67 62 54  L 57 61 67 67 73 80  Pet .581 .551 .504 .500 .459 .403  GB 4 10112 11 16112 24  L10 z-8-2 6-4 5-5 7-3 z-4-6 3-7  Streak Lost 1 Lost 2 Lost 3 Won 2 Lost 2 Lost 2  Home 43-25 35-33 36-31 37-31 35-32 31-36  Away 36-32 40-28 32-36 30-36 27-41 23-44  
Detroit  0  1  0  .000  24  27  0-0-0  0-1-0  0-0-0  0-1-0  0-1-0  nose tackle, on injured reserve.  West Division  
Green Bay West Atlanta San Fran LA Rams New Orlns  0 1 1 0 0  1 0 0  0 0 0 0 0  .000 1.000 1.000 .000 .000  20 20 31 7 13  23 17 14 40 15  0-1-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  0-0-0 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-1-0 0-1-0  0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 0-1-0 0-0-0  0-1-Q 0-0-0 1-0-0 0-0-0 0-1-0  0-1-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0 0-0-0  Canadian Football League BRITISH COLUMBIA LIONS-Signed Eric Buckley and Joe Mero, defensive backs, and Elbert Turner. wide receiver.  Atlanta Cincinnati San Diego Houston San Francisco  w 80 74 73 65 60  L 55 62 62 71 76  Pet .593 .544 .541 .478 .441  GB 6112 7 15112 201/2  L10 z-6-4 3-7 z-6-4 z-8-2 1-9  Streak Won 2 Won 2 Won 4 Won 2 Lost 2  Home 41-26 44-23 40-28 38-29 36-33  Away 39-29 30-39 33-34 27-42 24-43  
HOCKEY  Los Angeles  55  81  .404  25112  2-10  Won  1  34-35  21-46  
National Hockey Laague  z-denotes first game was a win.  
Sunday's Games  Sunday, Sept. 13  MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Agreed to tenms  
Indianapolis 14, Cleveland 3 Chicago 27, Detroit 24 Buffalo 40, Los Angeles Rams 7 Minnesota 23, Green Bay 20, OT  Atlanta at Washington, 1 p.m. Chicago at New Orleans, 1 p.m. Dallas at New York Giants, 1 p.m. Green Bay at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m.  with Gaetan Duchesne, left wing, on a multiyear contract. ST. LOUIS BLUES-Signed Vitali Karamnov, left wing.  AMERICAN LEAGUE Saturday's Gamas Toronto 7, Minnesota 3 Cleveland 5, Seattle 4  NATIONAL LEAGUE Saturday's Games San Diego 5, Chicago 3 Pittsburgh 6, Los Angeles 1  
Philadelphia 15, New Orleans 13 Atlanta 20, New York Jets 17 Pittsburgh 29. Houston 24 Cincinnati 21, Seattle 3 Kansas City 24, San Diego 10 Tampa Bay 23, Phoenix 7 San Francisco 31, New York Giants 14  Los Angeles Raiders at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. Minnesota at Detroit, 1 p.m. Seattle at Kansas City, 1 p.m. Buffalo at San Francisco, 4 p.m. Houston at Indianapolis, 4 p.m. New England at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. New York Jets at Pittsburgh, 4 p.m.  COLLEGE ARKANSAS-Announced the resignation of Jack Crowe, football coach. CENTRAL FLORIDA-Announced Willie English, senior running back, will sit out the 1992 season as a redshirt.  Texas 7, New York 3 Boston 7, Oakland 3 Milwaukee 10, Detron 3 Chicago 12, Kansas Cijy 6, 8 innings, rain Baltimore 4, California 1 Sunday's Games New York 7, Texas 0  Cincinnati 6, New York 5 Houston 5, Montreal 2 St. Louis 4, San Francisco 0 Atlanta 6, Philadelphia 5 Sunday's Games Houston 3, Montreal 1 Los Angeles 7, Pntsburgh 5  
Denver 17, Los Angeles Raiders 13  San Diego at Denver, 4 p.m.  Toronto 4, Minnesota 2  Atlanta 4, Philadelphia 3  
New England at Miami, ppd., hurricane,  Philadelphia at Phoenix, 8 p.m.  Cleveland 12, Seattle 9, 121nnings  Cincinnati 6, New York 1  
rescheduled Oct. 18  Detroit 6, Milwaukee 2  St. Louis 5, San Francisco 3  
Monday, Sept.14  Kansas City 3, Chicago 2  San Diego 3, Chicago 1  
Monday's Game  Miami at Cleveland, 9 p.m.  California 5, Baltimore 2  New York (Schourek 4-6) at Philadelphia  
Washington at Dallas, 9 p.m.  Oakland 2, Boston 1, 10 innings  (Mulholland 12-9), 7:05 p.m.  
San Diego (Seminara 6-3) at San Francisco  
(Black 1 0-7). 9:35 p.m.  

ND PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
Senior Meeting 
September 8th at 7:30p.m. 
in 

Cushing Auditorium 
ALUMNI
Ill 
SENIOR 
!CLUB 

KARAOKE 
Wednesday night! 
9--2 

The place to be for the "Class of '93" 
must be 21 


John Duffy: 
Where's Your Date? 

Happy Birthday! 
Love, The Howard Chicks 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Students, faculty, and staff interested in volunteering, please attend either orientation session. 
DATES: Sept. 8 and Sept 14 TIME: 7:00p.m. ~ 9:00p.m. PLACE: Center for the Homeless (At the 
corner of S. Michigan St. and Sample St., downtown South Bend) 
For more information, contact 
-
John Whelan or Katie O'Gara at 
282--8700 
page 12 The Observer Monday, September 7, 1992 



-
The Observer/ Jake Peters 
Devon McDonald sacks Northwestern quarterback Len Williams, who threw for 289 yards. 
Monday, September 7, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Let Your Future Take Shape at Radian Corporation 

"The things I like best about Radian are the work environment and the diversity of work. The managers at Radian are committed to an open door policy that I find is a real asset. I am allowed to pursue my work, but if I have a question or problem, my super­visor, or any other Radian manager, is always there to help. The managers seem more like co-workers." 
• Jeremy Walker (B.S., Civil Engineering, University of Notre Dame, 1990) 

Since 1969 Radian has delivered expert solutions to our cljents' technical and environmental problems worldwide. For 22 years our engineers, scientists, and technical specialists have given us the talent, vision, and creativity that have made us one of the premier consulting firms in the public and private sectors. 
We owe our success to the special qualities of each of onr employees. And we believe our congenial work environment fosters a profes­sional camaraderie among people who want to put their ideas and skills to work. 
To learn more about Radian Corporation, see our videotape at your placement 
center. 
RADIAN 
CORPORA'I'ION 
An equal opportunity employer 
The Observer Monday, September 7, 1992
page 14 
Williams gives defense trouble 
But Irish, 'Cats have incomplete passing games 
By JENNY MARTEN with one interception while Smith and flanker Mike Miller Williams connected on 26 of 40 for big gains, but relied on full­
Associate Sports Editor 
attempts for 281 yards. The back Jerome Bettis and tailback CHICAGO-It was hard to tell biggest difference in the stats of Reggie Brooks to keep the ball who the Heisman hopeful was the two quarterbacks was that moving and set up the 5-yard 
touchdown pass to Oscar

at the beginning of the game. Mirer notched two touchdown 
As Notre Dame quarterback passes and Williams had none. McBride. Rick Mirer settled in, 
While Mirer utilized a select Williams came back on to the Northwestern's Len Williams corps of receivers in the game, field firing and moved his team 80 yards on 11 plays. Six of the 
eluded the Irish defense and Williams spread his passes 
eleven plays were passes and

quickly led his team into scor­around, connecting with nine 
all were to different receivers.

ing range in the Wildcats' first different receivers including 
two possessions. tight ends, running backs and Lee Gissendaner ran a reverse Williams continued to be suc­wide receivers while baffling into the end zone, ending the the Notre Dame defense. drive and tying the game at
cessful moving the ball down "We never made them work seven at the end of the first
the field, but wasn't as success­ful as Mirer at getting the ball for their passes, and that's quarter. 
across the goal line. what's disappointing, but let's give them credit," said Irish The first quarter was an early
"They say that a quarterback 
head coach Lou Holtz. indication of the strategies of
is supposed to lead his team to victory and I guess I didn't do Williams surprised many by the two quarterbacks with 
taking the ball 70 yards down Mirer relying on the big passing that," said Northwestern quar­
terback Len Williams. "It's en­the field in the Wildcats' first play and Williams using short series. He used a mixture of passes to drive his team down
couraging that we did move the football, but it's frustrating that· short passes and runs to put his the field. 
we couldn't punch it in." team in field goal range, but Mirer was frank about his Northwestern place kicker "He (Williams) is a good 
Brian Leahy missed the 27-quarterback," said Notre Dameperformance. 
nose tackle Oliver Gibson. "He

"I played okay. It was not my yarder. 
Mirer responded with a drive saw the field well. He's very
best game, but it was good 
of his own that, unlike mobile and a strong passer. Weenough to win," he said. 
Mirer completed 8 of 17 at­Williams', ended in the end knew he was mobile, but we tempted passes for 165 yards zone. Mirer hit tight end Irv didn't know to what extent." 
Irish men's soccer drops Wolfpack women down Notre Dame 
Observer Staff Report promise for the future." "We played very well, 
N.C. State tied the game seven attacked well and created
games to UCLA, Duke 
With four players out due to minutes later, on a goal by Kim chances," said Petrucelli. "I'm Special to the Observer soccer team gave the fourth­injury, the Notre Dame women's Yankowski from in front of the disappointed that we gave up ranked UCLA Bruins all they soccer team faced a tough game left crossbar, and the teams four goals." 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.-The could handle, but felll-0. at North Carolina State, but to went into the half tied at 1-1. However, the Irish missed two twentieth-ranked Notre Dame "I am not happy with the loss, their credit, the Irish hung The Wolfpack scored first in the of their most important players. men's soccer team is but I am happy with the way we tough with the Wolfpack before second stanza, and were able to Stephanie Porter, the MCC 
contending with the nation's played," Berticelli said. "The succumbing 4-3. keep a goal ahead of the Irish Player of the Year last season best, but their youth showed effort was there and so was the Freshman Rosella Guerrero the rest of the way. and keeper Michelle Lodyga, this weekend. execution, but we just couldn't was outstanding for the Irish, Guerrero tied the game at two were both out with injuries. 
For the second consecutive convert, on our scoring scoring all three of their goals, all 59-31 into the game, but "We made some defensive night, the Irish, starting six chances. the first of which gave Notre Collette Cunningham scored the mistakes, due to inexperience 
sophomores and one freshman, Standing in the way of Notre Dame the lead with 18:02 gone first of her two goals five and lack of communication," fell one goal short of one of the Dame was UCLA goalkeeper in the first period. minutes later to put the Petrucelli said. "We had some 
nation's traditional powers as Brad Friedel, one of three "Rosella was outstanding," Wolfpack back on top, although errors in the goal that cost us. 
13th-ranked Duke topped the members of the United States said Irish coach Chris Guerrero tied the game again "We very easily could have Irish 1-0 at Bill Armstrong Olympic team on UCLA's squad. Petrucelli. "She showed us with 19 minutes left to play. won the game." Stadium in the Adidas MetLife "Our young guys played ex­
SPORTS BRIEFS

Classic. tremely well," Berticelli said, "Duke played a tremendous citing the play of freshmen Bill 
The NO/SMC Sailing Club will hold an Soccer Officials are needed for RecSports
game and you can't take Lanza and Eric Ferguson. 
organizational meeting for all present and new soccer leagues. Come to a meeting on Septemberanything away from them," said "Our defense also played well. 
members on September 6 at the Boathouse at 10 at 5:30 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. Officials
coach Mike Berticelli. "It's not We made some progress and 6:30 p.m. Questions? Call Rudy Bryce at 283-earn $10 a game.
like we did anytning wrong in proved we could play with one 4280.
these games, but our youth of the best teams in the country. 
RecSports Is accepting entries for interhall
showed. We are a good young "Mario (Tricoci) and Kevin 
The Notre Dame Soccer Club will be holding cross country and men's soccer, campus
program which is only going to (Pendergast) led the way, and tryouts for all undergrads on September 7,8 and volleyball and grad/faculty/staff soccer. Entriesget better. Mike Palmer did a great job on 10 at 5 p.m. at the fields south of the JACC are due in the RecSports Office in the JACC by"But right now, our (Olympian) Joe-Max Moore." 
parking lot across Edison. Bring a ball if possible. September 9.
inexperience is showing." Both teams posted six shots Duke got on the board first on goal, which left Berticelli 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse will practice The campus 2-person golf scramble will
when A.J. Siebeneck took a somewhat pleased. 
September 7 and 8 at 10 p.m. in Loftus. take place on September 27. The tournament isBrian Crane pass and booted it "I thought we played with Questions? Call Heather at 284-5103 or Cathy at open to all students. faculty and staff. Sign up as
in the net from 17 yardsat the them throughout the whole 
283-4998. an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees 
25:54 mark. game, but we could not get the due by September 23. 
Just over two minutes later, ball in the net," he added. 
Football Officials are needed for RecSports
Parade prep All-Amrican Bill "Talent-wise, they are just more 
leagues. Com~~ to meeting on September 9 in the
Lanza scored his first collegiate experienced, but that is no 
JACC Football Auditorium at 5 p.m. for Grad Anyone interested In Indoor or outdoor 
goal for the Irish from four excuse for us not to score. We football and at 5:30 p.m. for women's interhall. track should come to an information meeting on 
yards to even it at 1-1. The tie need to finish off the plays." Officials earn $9 a game. September 9 at 4 p.m. in Loftus Auditorium. did not last long as five minutes UCLA scored the game's only 

later, Duke's Chris Yankee goal at the 54:11 mark when dribbled through the Irish senior midfielder assisted to Joe defense and nailed a 15-yard O'Brien off a free kick. O'Brien shot into the upper right corner headed it in from seven yards of the Notre Dame goal. out to break the deadlock. 
The Irish mounted an offense "I was tired and nervous in with 14 shots on goal, but Duke the beginning, but the older goalie Garth Lagerway posted players made me feel good nine saves to keep Notre Dame when the game started. Once in check. Irish sophomore we hit kick-off, I was fine. It goalkeeper Bert Bader saved actually felt like I was at home," six shots as Notre Dame fell to Ferguson said. 0-2 on the season. Duke raised "Watching the game, there is its record to 2-0. no way you would think Eric 
Senior captain Mario Tricoci and Bill are in their first colle­of Palatine, Ill. and freshman giate season, let alone their first Bill Lanza both earned all­college game," Berticelli added. tournament honors. "I am very pleased with the way 
"I am proud of the way kids they played. They, just like the played, but now we must get rest of the team, are only going back to practice and learn to get better. howto win these games," Berticelli said. "All three of The Irish travel to Loyola (Ill.) these teams have been to a final on Wednesday evening to open four. That's our goal as well The Midwestern Collegiate only way to get better is to keep Conference play and then open on playing the best." their home schedule next 
Saturday night, the 20th­Friday against Illinois-Chicago ranked Notre Dame men's at Alumni Field. 
,._ .~ 
Questions? Call Yvette McNeill at 283-4412. 
Welcome Students 

BAPTIST Student Union 
Bible Study -Fellowship -Fun September 7
Join 

7 p.m.
Us! 

at Center for Social Concerns 
Today 
Monday, September 7, 1992 page 15 
,---~-------~ 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
PEOP\.1: CoM\U,\\-1 T\-1~T TilE Et-\Tt.RTf>,INMt.NI \NO\JSTRY 
ct-:1\~.RS 10 n\E LOWEST 
COII\1'\0N Ot.t-IOM.IAATDR Or P\JBL\C Tt\<J"I£, B\JT I DI5N>Rt.£.. 
BILL WATTERSON 
11-\£Rt: MUST 8[ A BR\LL\1\~T 
1'1<'1 S\JRE T\-\£Rt.s 
P, W~i TO CRAM CAREER.. AI-\HO 
MORE 'JIOLEtKE Of-'(O\}. \~TO ~ \<\\1'-l\J\tSI 
' ,, 


Fumbling for his recline buHon, Ted unwittingly instigates a disaster. 















CAMPUS CROSSWORD Monday 
ACROSS 30 Merriment 56 Innocence 
7 p.m. Film, "The Cheat." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite 
31 French 621solated 

Museum of Art. 
1 First son of composer: 63 Pack firmly, as 
9 p.m. Film, "Dracula." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite
Eliz.ll 
1823-92 pipe tobacco 

Museum of Art. 
5 Proscribed 32 Husk of grain 64 Bay window 9 Blockhead 35 Off the cuff 65 Movie dog13 Spartan serf 39 Redolence 66 Encumbrance
15"0nce-a 
41 Harem room 

LECTURES
midnight 67 Showy tropical 
42 Magnifying

dreary" plant
glass 

Tuesday
16 Erudition 68 Shabby
43 Recorded 

17-France 69 Uncommon
44 Dorothy Gale's 

12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Anthropological Reflections on
1aAnanias dog 10 Quilt material 
the Brazilian Crisis." Roberto De Matta, senior fellow,
191celandic 46 Khrushchev's 
Kellogg Institute. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored
literature land: Abbr. 
DOWN 

by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
20 Good record 47 Cummerbund 22 Ripened 49 Old Blood and 1 Stylish 23 Observed Guts 2 Hades 
24TV's Ed 51 Green loot 3 On the 
MENU 
53 Raced sheltered side containing gold 55 Frustrate 4 Fountain drink 5 Net fabric 
26 Deposit 
Notre Dame 
6 Concerning bees 
Roast Turkey 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Ketch or dory 
Kielbasa and Kraut 

R E C E D E S a Fanciful 
Welsh Rarebit over Toast 

ANODYNE 9 Exhausted; emptied 10 Statesman 30 Blackfly 51 At liberty 55 Cheat ~~-F-1 Henry Cabot 33 Portnoy's 57 Actress Turner 
52Utah's­
creator 58 Baghdad
Mountains 

~~~E-1 11 Mandate 34 Foofaraw inhabitant ~:.:+=::.j,ljjjol.iioj 12 Absolutely 36 "-for Life," 53 Thighbone 59 Actress Foch ~=4-'-:..jllllll~ 14 On edge by I. Stone 54 Temporary 60 Fender mishap .:..:..j.::,:.+::+-:,+7-l 21 Belgrade native 37-facto decline 61 Wood strip 
~~+-! 25 Embossed 38 Swiss capital figure 40 Jewish month 

If you see news 
~~~ 26 Municipal map 45 Accessible Get answers to any three clues ~:,.++=+:+=-f.:::-1 27 Zhivago's love 48 Division by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· H,:.,t-;+;~8~ 28 Out of kilter 50 Kind of 
happening, please call 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
the Observer at 239­7471. 
Students: Please register to vote. Registration opportunities are coming soon to a dining hall near you. 
-The Observer 
I 
l 
l 
1 
Sports 
page 16 Monday, September 7, 1992 

MIKE 
Irish maul Wildcats in Chicago
SCRUDATO 
By MIKE SCRUDATO downfield for me. He's got to · ,. Sports Editor receive the credit for it." 
Random Thoughts 
Overall, Brooks was pleased CHICAGO-At the end of two-with his performance, but 1----------------1 a-day practice sessions, Notre stressed it was more than just 
an individual effort. 

Expect Irish to Dame head coach Lou Holtz 
said the Irish would not be a "J ran the ball well, but you have to attribute that to theb0UnCe back f0r big play team. However, they 
blocking," he said. "I had
bl'g game were just that in Saturday's
42-7 win over a pesky some massive holes to run Northwestern team. through. The only thing I had to do was make the reads. 
CHICAGO-Though Notre Dame 
•William shines at QB/page 14 
"There was no pressure on
covered the 34-point spread in its victory over Northwestern, there were The Irish were sleepwalking me, it was all on Rick and not too many Irish fans, students or through the game until the Jerome." 
Backup quarterback Kevin
players who were happy with the 5:47 mark of the third team's performance. quarter, when, on third and McDougal led the Irish on After all, this was Northwestern. This 16, Rick Mirer hit sophomore their final scoring drive, was supposed to be a warm-up for sensation Mike Miller in stride which ended with Oscar 
McBride's second five-yard
Saturday's contest against fifth-ranked down the middle to put the 
touchdown reception of the
Michigan. Instead, the thousands of Irish up 21-7. Irish fans who travelled to Soldier Field "It was man coverage day. 
The first one gave the Irish
had a legitimate reason to worry against Mike, he beat his man 
a 7-0 lead with 6:12 left in the
during the intermission, as the and I put it out there in front Wildcats, led by first-year coach Gary of him," Mirer said of the 70-first quarter. The Wfidcats Barnett, trailed by only a touchdown. yard scoring strike. tied the game on Lee 
The score seemed to wake Gissendaner's 14-yard run off
Eventually, Notre Dame pulled away, but there is a lot of skepticism around up the entire. team. The a reverse just before the end campus going into Saturday's home defense, which struggled all of the quarter. The Irish took 
day, held Northwestern the lead for good 1:54 before
opener. However, every cloud has a silver without a first down on their halftime, when Becton took a 
pitch from Mirer and took it in
lining, and the only thing Irish fans next possession, setting up 
from two yards out.

have to do to find the one from the another Irish drive. This one 
Northwestern game is look back to last was keyed by two runs. The The second-half offensive season. first, a 25-yard burst up the explosion was overshadowed by the less-than-stellar
In the season's opening weekend, middle by Lee Becton, put many Notre Dame students returned to Notre Dame on the performance of the Notre their rooms after the Irish's 45-27 win Northwestern 38. Four plays Dame defense, which over Indiana to get a look at the next later, Jerome Bettis, who surrendered 408 yards of 
week's opponent-Michigan. gained 130 yards on 19 total offense to a Wildcats team that is still learning a
The Wolverines were supposed to be carries, capped the 10-play, 
new system.

having an easy time with Boston 84-yard drive with a 24-yard 
explosion. "Defensively, it was a bend­College, a young team with a rookie 
don't break. We can't play
head coach. To everyone's surprise, "Jerome is just Jerome. He's 
that way, and it wasn't out
they were not. As a matter of fact, the the man," is all Holtz could 
intention," Holtz said. "We
upstart Eagles led 10-7 at the half. say of his starting fullback, 
didn't respond the way we
Early in the fourth quarter, BC kicked sometimes tailback. a field goal to pull within a point, 14-Though Bettis was the focus had wanted. We never 
13. But Desmond Howard and of the pre-game attention, his disrupted their rhythm the company eventually proved to be too partner in the backfield, entire game. We have got to The Observer/ Jake Peters much for the upstart Eagles, and pulled Reggie Brooks, led the Irish in be more aggressive." Tailback Reggie Brooks recorded a career-high 157 yards in his 
away to a 35-13 victory. rushing with 157 yards on Throughout the day first start in the Irish backfield, including this 72-yard scamper. nine carries and turned in the Northwestern quarterback
Does that sound at ail familiar? This conservative offense "We did what we were sup-
Len Williams, who threw for
After the Wolverines less-than­longest scoring play of the frustrated Notre Dame and posed to, but we were
281 yards, picked apart the
spectacular performance, many people afternoon-a 72-yard dash to left its defense questioning its tentative, and there were a lot 
seal the game with 6:47 Irish defense with a short,
thought the Irish would roll past them. own intensity level. of individual breakdowns,"
controlled passing game. 

As the 1991 season progressed, remaining. "The thing that bothers me nose tackle Oliver Gibson said. 
"That was my favorite play, "Our game plan was 'Take
Michigan worked out its week one is that we just didn't play "It all comes down to yards,
what they give us.' They play 
problems, beating Notre Dame 20-14 a counter-flow," Brooks said hard," left end Devon and we can't do (what we did the next week in Ann Arbor, and they of his touchdown run. "Lake deep, so we couldn't get McDonald noted. today) versus Michigan."
Dawson made a great block greedy," Williams explained. 
went on to win the Big Ten title. And Boston College was not as bad as everyone thought. 
Though they finished only 4-7, the 

Volleyball team wins tourney
Wolverines were not the only Top 20 
By JOHN ROCK AND fourth game, but Louisville hekl on forteam scared by coach Tom Coughlin's the 15-13 win. But Notre Dame turnedteam. 
NICOLE MCGRATH around in the fifth game, downing the
The Eagles' fourth-quarter rally 
Cardinals 15-7. 
almost beat Penn State, but the Nittany The Irish women's volleyball team Defensively, Fiebelkorn led the way,
Lions held on, 28-21, and the top­
pulled out a pair of nail-biters over the collecting 28 digs. This mark broke the
ranked Miami Hurricanes barely 
weekend to win the Big Four Classic, single-match tournament record of 17escaped Chestnut Hill, 19-14. 
defeating Louisville Friday night, 15-6, set by Louisville's own Shannon Misek in
So, don't worry about this past 15-6, 5-15, 13-15, 15-7. The Irish last year's tournament. Peters brokeSaturday too much, Michigan fans 
avenged last year's National Invitational Fiebelkorn's record with 36 digs against 
probably aren't. They beat 
Volleyball Championship tournament loss Kentucky.
Northwestern 59-14 last year, a game to the 17th-ranked Kentucky Wildcats on In that match, Notre Dame prevailed inwhich they led 45-7 at the half. 
Saturday, 15-12, 15-11, 11-15, 10-15, another five-set marathon. 
The Wildcats provided the Irish with 
15-13. Kentucky opened the scoring in thean opportunity to fine-tune themselves, The Irish and the Cardinals historically first game, 2-0, but the Irish came back,an opportunity that Michigan did not have fought down to the wire. This took the lead at 3-2 and held it the whole have. Enjoy the hype that will build up tournament proved no different. Notre game. The Wildcats rallied from 6-3 toto the continuation of the great Notre Dame used the homecourt advantage make it 6-6, but a dig by TournamentDame-Michigan rivalry. The game will Friday night, sweeping past Louisville in MVP Christy Peters allowed captainmost likely live up to it. 
the first game, 15-6. Alicia Turner to kill and force side-outAs for Northwestern, they won't be In game two, Louisville struggled to for Notre Dame. The Irish kept pace andheading to Pasadena just yet, but they score against middle blockers Jessica won on a Marilyn Cragin kill, 15-12.
might surprise a few people. They have 
Fiebelkorn and Cynthia May . In game two, Kentucky jumped out to aalready scared one team. 
• 
Louisville could do nothing against a 5-0 lead, keyed by Wildcat middle barrage of kills. When Fiebelkorn blocker Eunice Thomas' two kills. The smashed a kill, bringing the score to 9-3, Irish worked back, however, and tied the the Cardinals retreated for a timeout. game 9-9 on an errant Kentucky hit. Returning to the game, the Irish scored Nicole Coats finished the game with two three more points while Louisville could
's soccer drops two jump-serve aces. 
gain only one point. The Irish cruised to Kentucky jumped out to early leads in
see page 1 

a 15-6 game two victory on a service ace the third and fourth games, and the Irish by Fiebelkorn. could not catch up. Krista Robinson won ,.\1~'"'' 1 ""'' ..... devours Irish women Game three saw the Cardinals' middle game three for UK, capitalizing on their see page 1 hitter, Heather Sachs, smash two aces in early lead. a row, jumping to a 4-2 lead. Louisville Game four went just about point for The Observer/ Jake Peters coasted to a 15-5 win. point, except that for a brief Irish lead at Cynthia May, shown here against Ball State, The Irish and the Cardinals traded 
see FOUR/page 1 0 
and the Irish won two games in this past side-outs and timeouts throughout the 
weekend's Big Four Classic. 




