------~­
• 


WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1992
VOL. XXIV NO. 103 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Kerrey wins in South Dakota 
Bush faces surprisingly large number of 'uncommitted' 
SIOUX FALLS, S.D. (AP) ­Sen. Bob Kerrey won the South Dakota primary Tuesday, boosting his standing in the Democratic presidential race. President Bush, the unopposed Republican winner, was buf­feted by a protest vote. 
Kerrey's farm-state rival, Sen. Tom Harkin, was running second and looking ahead to the burst of primaries in March. . ''I'm still in this race," Harkin said as the votes were being counted. "It's a national campaign." 
The Republican results had to be sobering to the White House. With 90 percent of the precincts reporting, Bush had 69 percent of the total and 31 percent chose uncommitted. Conservative Patrick Buchanan was not on the ballot. 
Kerrey was gammg 40 percent of the Democratic vote in South Dakota, compared to 26 percent for Harkin and 19 percent for Clinton. Paul Tsongas trailed with 9 percent, and Jerry Brown had 4 percent. 
South Uakota thus was ex­tending a trend of regional fa­voritism among the Democrats, and of a strong challenge to Bush among the Republicans. 
"I think it's just confirmation 
• Bush campaigns/ page 4 

of what we've been saying. The president has been in a free-fall for months now and there's no indication that he's levelling off," said outspoken conserva­tive activist Richard Viguerie, a supporter of Buchanan. 
With 15 Democratic delegates and 19 GOP delegates at stake, South Dakota marked the end of a preliminary round of sin­gle-state contests. More than 1200 Democratic delegates are up for grabs in a string of con­tests over the next two weeks. 
CNN projected a Kerrey vic­tory based on exit polls, broad­casting the result with almost a third of the polling places still open. 
Kerrey, a former Nebraska governor and first-term senator, campaigned as a Farm Belt neighbor to South Dakota, pressing his call for national health insurance. The exit polls said the health issue was popu­lar with voters, especially among the elderly. 
Kerrey campaign manager Tad Devine called the South Dakota vote an "impressive victory" and said he hoped it could be parlayed into cam­paign momentum in Colorado, 
Lopez: U.S. may have acted unethically during Gulf War 
By JAY STONE 
News Writer 
The U.S.-led coalition's ac­tions during the last few weeks of the Gulf War and the conse­quent effects on the Iraqis raised serious moral questions about the ethics of war, said 
Professor George Lopez Tues­day. 
In his lecture titled "Quotable Quotes, Slippery Slopes and the Search for Ethics in War: Fighting in the Persian Gulf," Lopez, associate professor of government and international studies and faculty fellow in the 
St. Ed's wins over 0-C in Icebergs 
By JOE MONAHAN 
News Writer 
The team from St. Edward's defeated the Off-campus team by a unanimous decision (3-0) in the semifinal round of the 1992 Iceberg Debates Tuesday. 
The teams debated the reso­lution: "Media Should Not In­vade the Privacy of Public Fig­ures and Government Officials." Freshman Kristen Murphy and senior Ron Severino argued the negative for St. Edward's, while seniors Terry Coyne and Shelley Guilbault argued the affirmative for the Off-campus team. 
The St. Edward's team ar­
gued that freedom of speech 
and the press guaranteed by 
the First Amendment is 
paramount and should not be 
see ST. ED'S I page 6 
Georgia and South Carolina, all of which vote in the next week. 
Tsongas offered Kerrey con­gratulations -but it was tem­pered. "It's obvious that the negative advertising worked, and we'll take that into consid­eration," he said. Tsongas got one bit of bright news -an en­dorsement from Gov. William Donald Schaefer one week ahead of Maryland's primary. 
Harkin disputed any sugges­tion that he might drop out of the race if he lost South Dakota. Even so, the political pundits predicted in advance that if either Kerrey or Harkin was defeated, their fundraising would dry up. 
But so far, none of the re­gional winners has been able to parlay his home-field advantage into broader success. 
Tsongas, the winner in last week's New Hampshire pri­mary, stumbled to a dead heat with Brown in Maine. Harkin won his home-state Iowa cau­cuses earlier in the month, but finished fourth in New Hamp­shire and trailed. badly in Maine. Clinton has yet to win, despite his pre-primary status as front-runner, but primaries in his native South begin next week. 

Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, examined whether the U.S. forces in the Gulf War acted unethically. 
Lopez said that his main goal was "to establish whether our behavior matched our best in­tentions. If and where it did not, I wish to identify why that mav have been so." 
According to Lopez, the allied forces delivered more "explosive tonnage in Kuwait and Iraq in 110 days than was dropped by all sides during World War II." 
Lopez added that the kill ratio of enemy forces to coalition forces was the largest in the twentieth century and that the environmental and infrastruc­ture damage in Iraq and Kuwait will effect "people and resources for years to come." 
Lopez also expressed concern regarding the future of war­fighting strategies, particularly about the use of air power. Lopez saw the air-land strategy employed in the Gulf War as "the wave of the future." 
The political dialogue of the Iraqi invasion, Desert Shield and Desert Storm were "intermeshed" with ethical principles, Lopez added. From the very beginning of the Gulf War, U.S. strategists focused on 

Quite a find 

Associate librarian Laura Fuderer pages through "The Nuremberg Chronicles" in the Rare Books room in the Hesburgh Library. 
a war-fighting policy which would limit civilian casualties. According to Lopez, "unlike previous wars," U.S. leaders, even during the Gulf War, em­phasized this commitment. 
Although Lopez admitted that U.S.-led forces attempted to minimize civilian casualties by attacking military, strategic targets with precision-guided munitions, he said that this practice was "more true in Baghdad than it was in Basra and other cities." 
Lopez added that the final coalition bombings of city in­frastructure "contributed little or nothing to stated U.S. war goals: the liberation of Kuwait and the destruction of Saddam Hussein's military capacity.... Nor did these attacks alter the military capacity of Iraq to de­termine when and how the war would come" to an end. 
Lopez said that these bomb­ings of the U.S.-led coalition raise the question of whether a fighting power has the respon­sibility to allow the enemy to meet the basic needs of its pop­ulace after the war has ended. Subsequently, Lopez said that the Iraqi people continue to suffer "disproportionately" from 
see LOPEZ I page 4 

Alumni defeats Grace, reaches Iceberg final 
By AMY SANTANGELO 
News Writer 
Alumni Hall advances to the finals of the 1992 Iceberg De­bates after defeating Grace Hall by successfully defending the position that the media should not invade the privacy of public figures and government officials. 
The Alumni team, represented by speakers freshman Sean Dempsey and junior David Certo, took the affirmative side, while the negative view was held by senior Grace Hall debaters David Frye and John Albers. Alumni won the debate in a 2-1 split decision. 
Dempsey, who spoke first for Alumni, said that the team's main premise was that "all people have a fundamental right to privacy." The team said that they believed that informa­tion about certain matters, especially concerning an indi­vidual's health and family, should not be released to the general public. 
Teammate Certo emphasized the point that the debate was one of ethics and values, or what people should and should not do. He said that there are "certain sectors of lives so pri­vate and so fundamental that they should not be invaded." 
Albers was Grace's first speaker to refute Alumni's ar­guments. The Grace team's po­sition was that freedom of the press is one of the cornerstones of democracy. He said that "officials are held accountable to people through the media." 
Grace's second speaker specifically attacked Alumni's stand on the issue of health and family matters. He said that these issues are important to the public so they should be made known. 
Alumni's rebuttal was simply 
see ALUMNI/ page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Notre Dame needs to clean out its closets 
Sir John Harrington, an English poet of the 17th century, once wrote MTreason doth never prosper: What's the reason? For if treason ever prosper, none dare call it treason." 


Treason, taken quite Dave Dleteman 
literally, Is a crime of Sports Editor limited dimensions,------­Involving nations and politicians. Yet Interpreted broadly, treason can be called not just politics, but business. It's lies, deception, misinformation and all the good stuff that comes along with big business, big government and big educational Institutions. 
At Notre Dame, treason is commonly re­ferred to as Mpersonnel matters" or Munlverslty business." How many things go on at Notre Dame that the community is kept in the dark about? Cable television on campus two years ago? Mysterious disappearances of athletes from active lineups? Lawsuits against the university? Students forced to petition to Board of Trustees in order to obtain hiring information for classes? 
It is not simply that Notre Dame chooses not to do Its laundry In public. The University could not do so, as the world does not have enough detergent or washing machines to cleanse Notre Dame's soiled rags of their horrid Iniquities. 
In Roman times, it was said that Caesar's wife must not only be virtuous, her virtue must be unquestioned. The same can be said of Notre Dame (Caesar's wife). Although the University maintains (without documentation) that it is virtuous, its virtue has been 
convincingly and repeatedly questioned. Singing the Alma Mater is difficult at an in­stitution which spouts on and on about how it has nothing to hide but nonetheless acts like it has the skeletons of South African blacks, functionally illiterate athletes and other non­entities in its mammoth closets. 
Notre Dame ought to be thankful for the myths of virtue and goodness which surround it. Were it not for these myths of virtue and for the fact that such myths make people generally unwilling to believe scandalous tales of Notre Dame, this University would find Itself as well-respected as UNLV or the University of Miami (Fla.). Instead, an institution which is, as far as anyone knows, as crooked as any other allows Itself to be passed off as holler-than-thou. 
Are the men and women under the dome wearing blinders, or are they merely callous? Are they active accomplices to the crimes of which they stand accused, or are they, in their sUence, accomplices after the fact? 
Task forces on diversity and crime are a waste of time and resources. What Notre Dame needs, If It is to survive for another 150 years, is an ethical and charismatic leader to purge the charlatans from its inner sanctums. It needs a willingness to defend Its virtue, openly and honestly responding to accusations. For if she is virtuous, why does she behave like a tart, sneaking around at night and working deals behind closed doors? Arrangements with NBC and Edward DeBartolo, Sr. doth surely prosper, and none dare call them treason. 
The views are tlwse of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's  taff  
Production  News  
Lisa Bourdon  Paul Pearson  
Kristin Lynch  Julie Barrett  
Pete Loftus  
Sports  Graphics  
Dave McMahon  Brendan Regan  
Accent  VIewpoint  
Paige Smoron  Rich Riley  
Patrick Moran  Colleen Gannon  
Systems  Lab Tech.  
Patrick Barth  David Lee  
Mike Mur..ph;;.;..;.o.y  
254,542,370 226.68 v .94 S&P COMPOSITE 410.45 • 1.82 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,257.83 • 24.59 


The Obaerver (USPS 599 2-4000) ia published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObMrver ia a member ot the A..ociated Preas. All reproduclion rights are r--..d. 
~ --­
----------~-----~----~---------­
FORICAIT: Partly sunny and 
cool today. Highs in 
the lower 40s. Lows in the upper 
20s. 

TEMPERATURES: 
City H l Albuquerque 52 25 Atlanta 81 53 Austin 67 61 Barcelona 54 41 Baton Rouge 79 62 Bismarck 45 08 Boise 59 30 Boston 37 34 Columbla.S.C. 67 59 Columbus 46 38 Denver 46 31 Des Moines 36 ' 22 Harrisburg 51 33 Helena 53 26 Helsinki 37 27 Honolulu 81 66 Indianapolis 44 37 Juneau 48 42 Lincoln 56 46 Madison 38 29 Mpis·St. Paul 32 19 NashvKie 51 45 Sacramento 73 46 Salt Lake City 52 34 
South Bend 46 35 
Tallahassee 80 54 Topeka 42 25
:·.:: r--;:;:::=::-------------------------.
Pf9SSUf9  Washington, D.C.  42  39  
H  L  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  
Via Associatlld Press  
.:.:::::::;:;:::::::::  ' '  ·.=~::::·  :.:;.::  :':  :::.:  


OF INTEREST 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
accept a $12,000 offer from abortion foes to give birth to a seventh child. Greywind, who was 13 weeks pregnant, said she had the abortion Saturday in Fargo and was driven back to a state mental hospital in Jamestown, about 150 miles away, where she is serving part of a 30­day sentence for inhaling paint fumes. Greywind became the center of a bitter abortion dispute that drew widespread attention after she was charged with recklessly endangering the fetus. Abortion opponents offered her $12,000 to carry her pregnancy to term, and an anonymous donor offered to pay for the abortion she said she wanted. 
CAMPUS Lurie cancels literary festiyal spot 
• NOTRE DAME -Pulitzer-Prize winning author Alison Lurie has cancelled her appearance at the Sophomore Literary Festival, chairwoman Betsy Harkins told the South Bend Tribune Tuesday. Lurie, who won the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for fiction for "Foreign Affairs," cancelled due to illness, Harkins said. The author was scheduled to read from her work "The War Between the Tates," Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Novelist Shelby Hearon will replace Lurie on Thursday night, Harkins said. 
NO Mock Trial com¥etes In nationals 
• NOtRE DAMEhe Notre Dame Mock Trial Association traveled to the eighth annual national competition held In Des Moines, Ia., this past weekend. ND qualified in the regional competition in January in seventh and eighth place to send 2 teams to nationals. This is the third consecutive years that ND has competed at the national level. Eighty-eight schools contributed over 100 teams to the competition. ND did not finish in the top ten, but ND junior Robert Sweeney won an outstanding witness award. 
491, Ethnographic Field Methods & Techniques, will be held today at 7 p.m. 204 O'Shaughnessy. 
•Natural 
Family Planning classes will begin tonight from 7-10 p.m. in Room 27 Hayes-Healy. Call 237-7401 for more information. 

•society 
of Professional Journalists will be holding an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Foster Room in LaFortune. New officers will be elected. 


ON TIIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1919: Congress established Grand Canyon National Park in Arizona. 

• 
In 1951: The 22nd Amendment to the Constitution was ratified, limiting a president to two terms in office. 

• 
In 1979: A total solar eclipse cast a moving shadow 175 miles wide from Oregon to North Dakota before moving north into Canada. 

• 
In 1984: Jesse Jackson acknowledged in Concord, N.H., using the word "Hymie" to refer to Jews during a private conversation, saying it was "insensitive and wrong." 

• 
Five Years Ago: The Tower Commission, which probed the Iran-Contra affair, issued its report, which rebuked President Reagan for failing to control his national security staff. 


WORLD 

• 
ENEVA -About 70 queens and presidents' wives gathered Tuesday for a conference to draw attention to the squalor and deprivation of rural women in the Third World. Ana Milena Munoz de Gaviria, the Colombian First Lady, said participants at the conference at U.N. 

•super 
hallan Pasta Bar will be open in North and South Dining Halls from 4:45-6:45 p.m. today. Students on Notre Dame Board Plan need their I.D..All others must pay cash. 

•The 
Multicultural Task Force will be holding an open forum on cultural diversity today at 5:30 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. 

•A 
Summer Session informational meeting for 1992 courses Anth 490, Archaeological Field School, and Anth 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 25 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX -Q­

PRECIOUS METALS GOLD(} $ .40 to $350.05 
SILVER.. 0.25¢ to $4.065/oz. 
Wednesday, February 26, 1992 The Observer page3 


HPC asked to support co-ed Pangborn move 
By BECKY BARNES group, which has sent mailings News Writer to all University groups, rectors 
and assistant rectors asking for 
Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) advice in addition to letters to was asked to support the The Observer and Scholastic, he committee to convert Pangborn said. into a co-educational, chemical­One HPC member raised free dormitory at Tuesday's questions about parietals, and meeting. Gannon said that parietals 
James Gannon, a Pangborn would probably be determined senior and a member of the by the administration. committee, said that now is the HPC members showed sup­time to make the change since port for the group, and dis­Pangborn is already to be con­cussed proposing a resolution verted to a women's dorm, and at their next meeting. students will not have to worry Joe Cassidy, Director of Stu­
about losing their own resi­dent Affairs, also discussed the dence. possibility of changing the hall 
In a letter to HPC, Gannon storage procedures to a Uni­said that a chemical-free, co-ed versity-wide use of storage Pangborn "would serve as a trailers. Cassidy asked HPC model facility and provide im­members to examine the costs petus for the future creation of of the procedure they have used a real co-ed housing option." in the past, and a decision will 
be made in the future. 
If Pangborn is converted, Cassidy also spoke about the Gannon hopes to see more Colloquy 2000, which will be dorms slowly going co-ed in the sending various sub-committees future. With the continuing in­to HPC and Student Senate crease of women to the Univer­meetings. Cassidy said that this 
sity, Gannon said that he thinks study by the administration is it will be possible to easily the first to ask for student Candid camera make the transition. input, and he stressed the im­
Fisher freshman Scott Sturm, left, is caught yawning in his room by a freelancing photographer, while
Gannon believes the adminis­portance of making contribu­
sophomore Mike McKerns, also unaware of the intruder, continues to flip through his pictures. 
tration will be receptive to the tions. 

Palestinian calls Israeli peace proposals 'preposterous' 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Israeli stein said at a news conference. be seriously considering them," torial differences between Is­and other functions the negotiators insisted Tuesday Across town, Hanan Ashrawi, he said. rael and the Arabs and estab­Palestinians would take over they were prepared to work out spokeswoman for the Palestini­Eventually, Rubinstein said, lish the legitimacy of Israel as a had come here to take up a self­terms of a self-rule plan for ans, described documents "they should be elaborated fur­Jewish state in a predominantly rule plan for the 1. 7 million Palestinians. But a Palestinian submitted by Israel Monday ther into a more detailed Muslim part of the world. Palestinians living under Israeli spokeswoman ridiculed Israeli night as "an insult to our intel­model" for self-rule. Israel came under public military government in the West proposals as "preposterous" ligence" because they perpetu­Meanwhile, Rubinstein said, pressure on Monday from Sec­Bank and Gaza. and in the nature of apartheid. ated the Israeli occupation of the issue of Jewish settlements retary of State James Baker to "They're here as proof we 
The sharp disagreement, the West Bank and Gaza and should be deferred until terri­stop settlements in the West come with the full intentional of alongside a red-hot U.S.-Israeli endorsed continued Jewish set­torial problems are taken up Bank, Gaza and other disputed talking substance," said an Is­dispute over Jewish settle­tlements of the disputed terri­later in the negotiations. territories or give up on getting raeli official, insisted on ments, slowed the peacemaking tories. But Ashrawi said the Pales­U.S. backing for $10 billion in anonymity. process. Even selecting the site Rubinstein said the "really tinian negotiators would refuse bank loans Israel has sought Ashrawi said the Israeli plan for the next round ran into elaborate ideas" did not to discuss self-rule until the is­since last fall to help it absorb envisions an "apartheid" legal trouble. Chief Israeli negotiator amount to a blueprint for self­sues of settlements and human tens of thousands of refugees system where Jews are treated Elyakim Rubinstein said only rule, but dealt with giving rights in lands the Arabs lost in from the former Soviet Union differently from Arabs and says his government had responded Palestinians who live under Is­the 1967 Six-Day War are re­and Ethiopia. Jews have the right to continue to a U.S. request for suggested raeli control considerable con­solved. settling in Judea and Samaria, locations. trol over their day-to-day activ­The day's bargaining at the Baker's threat bolstered the traditional Jewish names for 
"It's a pity time has to be ities. State Department mostly dealt Arabs' position, and Israel re­the West Bank. "The document 
wasted on such things," Rubin-"We hope the Palestinians will inconclusively with a procedu­sponded by reiterating its de­in itself is preposterous," she ral issue, where the next round termination to keep settling the said, "but that doesn't mean of talks would be held. Jordan territories and to come to terms we'll just throw it in the waste­proposed extending the current with the Palestinians and basket" when substantive dis­sessions here until March 11 surrounding Arab nations. cussions on self-rule begin. and Israel agreed to consider The U.S.-Israel dispute came The Palestinians on Monday the suggestion. amid disclosures that the Bush presented Israel with a lengthy 
But Rubinstein said he administration proposes to sell document detailing why the set­doubted it would be accepted. 7-2 advanced fighter jets and tlements, in their view, violate After two weeks of bargaining long-range antitank missiles to international law and must be the Israeli negotiators must Saudi Arabia. Israel has long stopped. consult with their government opposed U.S. sales of advanced "While the settlements are in Jerusalem, he said. weaponry to Arab states out of going on, while the bulldozers 
The three main goals of the concern it will lose its qualita­are leveling our land, it is very talks are to find a formula for tive military advantage. clear that Israel is trying to dig Palestinians to run their own Israeli officials said specialists the grave of the peace process," day-to-day lives, resolve terri-on health, economics, taxation Ashrawi said. 
Forums will focus on racial issues 

By ANDREW RUNKLE "We are trying to combat ig­News Writer norance on campus, take an ac­tive role," she said. 
Weekly forums will be spon­sored by the Multicultural Ex­According to Farmer, these ecutive Council (MEC) and the meetings are a result of a re­National Association for the cent forum held by the NAACP Advancement of Colored People on racism. The weekly forums (NAACP) to discuss gender and "are needed as a follow-up to race issues this semester, ac­take a pro-active, rather than


~!:CLUB 
cording to Nicole Farmer, reactive position," Farmer said. 
member of the MEC. After the first meeting on racism, "people walked away feeling good, but we need fol­STUDENT BARTENDER APPLICATIONS These forums will be held ev­ery Tuesday night for the rest of low-ups," she said to combat
& 

the semester, Farmer said. the problems. Farmer and Michael Swanson, "The forums will focus not
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 
campus president of the NAACP, only on black/white issues, but 
ARE NOW AVAILABLE. are planning the weekly on any gender or race issues. forums. We plan to make the discus-
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
Smoking Stinks! 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS 
Please Don't Do It
MARCH 5, 1992 
sions more broad," she said. 
Possible discussion topics for the forums include: stereotypes at Notre Dame, sexism, racism, and discrimination in the class­room, Farmer said. 
Farmer also hopes to sched­ule a forum in which a panel of student leaders would answer questions about organizational policies within campus groups for which they are responsible. 
Correction 
An article in Tuesday's Ob­server identified Andrea Ricker as the presidential candidate on the Notre Dame sophomore class election ticket headed by Jim Penilla. Ricker is the vice presidential candidate on that ticket, which is in today's run­off. The Observer regrets the error. 

~------~~--------------------------------------------------------~----­
page4 The Observer Wednesday, February 26, 1992 

Bush attacks Democrats' proposed defense cuts 

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) ­President Bush accused Democrats on Tuesday of trying to "open a bidding war to see who can gut defense the fastest" as he campaigned in a defense industry state ravaged by recession and shifting na­tional priorities. 
Bush said Democratic plans to reduce defense spending be­yond his recommended $50 bil­lion in cuts amount to "a Democratic double-play; cripple our defenses and the economy, all at the same time." 
"We can reduce defense spending substantially," he said in a fund-raising speech at the St. Francis Hotel. "But there are Democrats with a different plan in mind. They want to use the end of the Cold war to open a bidding war to see who can 
Lopez 
continued from page 1 
the effects of the coalition bombing. In addition to the last city bombings, Lopez said that the 
U.S. attacks on Iraqi troops re­treating to Basra on the Jahra road implied that the U.S. may have behaved unethically. Jahra road has become known as the "highway to hell," Lopez said. 
The U.S. forces, Lopez added, were assigned "kill zones" after they created a "traffic jam" along the road. Lopez said that the retreating Iraqi troops be­came "a shooting gallery" for 
U.S. air attacks. 
Ultimately, Lopez said that the Gulf War poses new ethical 
Alumni 
continued from page 1 
that the debate was not about freedom of the press, but rather about what the press
r 
should or should not do. Certo concluded that there are 
' 
"standards upon which all re­
,f 
sponsible journalism should be held (accountable)." 
,r 
r 
r 
,
' 
, ~ 
~ 
gut the defense the fastest." 
Bush, hoping to overcome his slump in California polls, was just starting a six-day trip combining politics in California and next week's primary state of Georgia with a drug summit and other matters in his home state of Texas. 
The president came here while South Dakotans were holding a primary. Bush was without opposition on the Re­publican ballot there and thus expected to win easily, although uncommitted delegates were also running. 
Mindful of California's foundering defense and aerospace industry and crip­pled real estate market, Bush noted that $1 out of every $5 is spent on defense is spent in Cal­ifornia. 
dimensions to warfare. Ac­cording to Lopez, the air-land strategy of the US-led coalition raised four main ethical issues: 
• 
The traditional defmition of civilian, or collateral, damage is an inadequate measure of the sufferings of the populace. 

• 
Precision-guided munitions alone will not allow combatants to avoid civilian casualties. These munitions could actually destroy the necessary facilities, such as energy and sewage plants, to meet civilians' basic needs. 

• 
The most successful U.S. war in the last 40 years had the largest kill ratio of enemy to 


U.S. troops. 
• U.S. leadership tended to emphasize the amount of mili­tary hardware destroyed rather than the deaths of Iraqi troops. 
Grace Hall held that their op­position offered no single idea why the media should not have invaded the public or govern­mental officials' private lives in examples presented during the debate. 
Frye said that "the right to privacy (of such officials) was invaded because of the public good involved." He reempha­sized Grace's point that the media has a special role in the government as a "watch dog." 

President Bush 

Bush said a Democratic pro­posal to cut defense by $200 billion would send "shock waves" into the construction and electronics and aerospace industries. He said there would be aftershocks in real estate markets and laborers would be "thrown out of work and onto welfare." 
He portrayed the Republicans as defenders against "a dan-
Caught in broad daylight 
ND Security watches on as an illegally parked car is towed away yesterday outside of Cavanaugh Hall. 

gerous enemy abroad," in years past when "irresponsible Democrats ... would have stripped this nation of the strength it needed to defense it­self." 
Invoking the popularity of the state's one-time governor, he added, "No one understood that better than my predecessor, Ronald Reagan." 
Meanwhile, GOP challenger Patrick Buchanan began a swing through Tennessee, Mis­sissippi, Alabama and Louisiana in search of Super Tuesday votes on March 10. 
In Nashville, Buchanan told Vanderbilt University students that his "America First" plat­form does not mean he is anti­Japanese. But he said the Japanese government "looks out for Japan first. We need a government that looks out for America first." 
Buchanan state chairman 

Lyle Simpson of Lewisburg said the candidate had planned to tour the Saturn auto plant at Spring Hill to show support for American-made products. But Simpson said plant officials told the campaign on Thursday that the tour would be canceled. He said they gave no reason. 
Bush only indirectly fired at Buchanan. 

"American's future lies in open markets. But our oppo­nents aren't about to let fact intrude on fantasy," Bush said. He said trade barriers and iso­lationism amount to "an eco­nomic retreat." 
Bush earlier Tuesday pre­dicted that despite polls to the contrary, "I think we'll be all right in California." 
Even Reagan, however, was quoted in The Washington Post on Tuesday as telling friends he was worried Bush was in trou­ble because, "he doesn't seem to stand for anything." 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 


You Asked for it, You Got it... 




CLIFF ERICKSON 
is Returning to ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
SENIOR 

&!:CLUB 

This THURSDAY-27th, FRIDAY-28th and SATIJRDAY-29th DON'T MISS IT!! 
HA.U.U.A.R COLLEU.E CENTER BECOrtES NEW ORLEA.NS Thursday, :February 27 7:30-lOp.m. :Food., :Fun, llames, nusic ... 
S:PONSO:R.:ED lll:J TH:E S'TUD:ENT ACTLV1.TL:E8 1\0A:R.n 
--~~---------------·--------------~ 
Wednesday, February 26, 1992 The Observer 
pageS 
Senate puts restrictions on China 
WASHINGTON (AP} -The breakthroughs" in U.S.-China surances on curtailing overseas Senate voted Tuesday to slap trade talks now going on in the weapons sales, missiles and new conditions on renewing Chinese capital. China at the other items continue to flow to normal trade relations with same time revealed the convic­such volatile areas as Syria, China but fell well short of the tions of seven more dissidents Libya, Iran, Iraq and Pakistan. two-thirds necessary to over­from the 1989 pro-democracy The CIA told lawmakers be­ride President Bush's promised movement. hind closed doors last week of veto. After fervent debate last evidence that China has shipped 
The 59-39 vote followed an summer, the issue of U.S. policy some $250 million in missiles, unusual secret session of the toward China had lain dormant nuclear technology and related full Senate to review intelli­for months. Action by the Sen­goods to those countries over gence about Beijing's arms ate's Democratic leaders to re­the past year or so, sources sales to the Middle East. vive it now was seen at least in said. 
The compromise bill would part as an election-year effort require "substantial progress" to embarrass the administra­In addition, Chinese weapons by China in the areas of human tion by highlighting what has makers have contracts or sales rights, trade and weapons pro­been an unpopular policy. plans worth another $1 billion liferation before most-favored­"There is potential on the part stretching years into the future, nation trade status could be of the Democratic leadership to said the officials, speaking only renewed. That trade status ex­try to undermine the foreign on condition of anonymity. pires in June. policy leadership of President "There was a lot of panic" 
The House approved the con­Bush," said Sen. Richard Lugar, resulting from the CIA briefing, ditional measure 409-21 last R-Ind. said one senior administration November, and it now goes to Administration officials, in­official. the White House. The Senate cluding Secretary of State To air those issues, senators tally was eight votes short of James Baker and his deputy retired for nearly two hours to the two-thirds that would be Lawrence Eagleburger, had the small, ornate Old Senate needed to override a veto if all made numerous lobbying visits Chamber. The closed session, senators voted. to Capitol Hill in recent days. required because of the sensi­
The Beijing government tivity of intelligence sources in­The Observer/Sean Faman Tuesday, in official reports co­The matter was driven, as volved, was the first since an Man's best friend inciding with the Senate vote, well, by intelligence reports arms control treaty was de­
Ed Kelly walks briskly during yesterday's chilly weather with his furry 
spoke of unspecified "major that despite earlier Chinese as-bated in 1988. 
friend, Wrinkles. 
The Observer is accepting applications for the paid positionsof: 
Assistant Advertising Manager 
Advertising Representative 
Those interested should contact Mike Hobbs at 239-5303. 
~tl Esll ~~ ~~ i Spanish Mass ~ 
Todos Estan lnvitados All Are Welcome 
Sunday, March 1 
10:00 a.m. 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Ted Weber, C.S.C. 
Sponsored byCampus Ministry~-Office of Minority Affairs
0MPU5 MINISTRY 

Japan's former leader testifies in scandal 
TOKYO (AP} -One of Japan's most powerful elder statesmen on Tuesday denied receiving bribe money from a now­defunct company, in par­liamentary testimony aimed at ending political paralysis over the scandal. 
Another former Cabinet min­ister, Jun Shiozaki, also testi­fied on his role in the affair. He admitted receiving $155,000 from the steel frame manufac­turer Kyowa Corp., but denied providing any favors in return. 
The governing Liberal Democrats had reluctantly asked former Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki and Shiozaki to testify to end a political im­passe over the scandal. 

Opposition parties had boy­cotted critical budget proceed­ings for two weeks, demanding the testimony. 
Senior politicians occasionally testify to respond publicly to charges of wrongdoing, in what is often little more than a ritual. This, coupled with the absence of new disclosures, seemed likely to end the impasse. Lawmakers were to resume debate Wednesday on the budget for the fiscal year be­ginning April 1. 
But Japan's political problems run deeper than the budget debate. Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa faces heavy pressure to carry out reforms aimed at cleaning up Japan's money politics, the factor underlying a slew of major political scandals in recent years. 
The Kyowa case comes amid allegations of another even larger scandal involving Tokyo Sagawa Kyubin, a major truck­ing firm. 
Media reports allege Shiozaki received $155,000, and that Suzuki $77,000 from Kyowa in return for political favors. 
In two hours of heated testi­mony, the 81-year-old Suzuki rejected allegations that he took money from Kyowa. 
"I have absolutely not re­ceived any funds connected with Kyowa and I would hereby like to clearly state that before the people," said Suzuki, who was prime minister from 1989­82. 
He has retired from Parlia­ment, but remains an influen­tial party elder. 
He admitted accepting $77,000 from Fumio Abe, a top associate of Miyazawa, soon after Abe was given his first Cabinet post in 1989 in thanks for Suzuki's support. But he said he returned the entire amount to Abe last year. 
Abe has been charged with accepting $703,000 in bribes from Kyowa. He has admitted taking money from Kyowa but has denied providing any favors in return. 
Suzuki also acknowledged be­coming honorary director of a resort being developed by Ky­owa "as a favor to Abe" but said he was not paid for the post. 
Shiozaki, a Miyazawa ally and former head of the Manage­ment and Coordination Agency, apologized for taking money from Kyowa, saying: "I am sorry for my lack of virtue and my careless acts." 

God gives each personone lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
page6 The Observer Wednesday, February 26, 1992 

Smoked sausage 
per pound 
Chicken 
per pound 
Butter 
per pound 
Macaroni 
per pound 
White bread 
per/oaf Sugar per pound 

Moscow marketbasket 
The value of the goods is measured both in rubles and the number of hours needed to buy an ltem based on an average monthly salary of 960 rubles; equal to about $13,70 at the Qoaling eJ«;hange rate caloulatEid an the basi$ of ruble auctiOns. Prices of basic food and consumer items found in t.bseow: 
Subsidized New prices New prices Number of hours Number of hours 
.tala pries In alate .toras In privata avg. worker labors ng. worker labors 
before thlswuk markets to purchaaaln to purchase at 
decontrol state .torn privata market 
t._______ln_ru_b_le..:..s_____......JII Based on an avg. 175 hours of worll per monrh I 
35.50 130.68 113.P3 
23.84 15.$0 18.29 54.54. 4.50 25~45 1.10 5.05 54.54 0.92 9.!J5 

0.60 3.33 1..10 3.81 20.4$• 

ration coupon required 
Milk 

0.70 1.83 28.30 
per quart 
Fresh fish 

5.50 34.09 
per pound ­
"Java" cigarettes 

0,55 11.00 1o.oo···· 
per pack 
Women's dress 

. 420,00 650.00 . 2,300~00 118.61 .. 419.70
shoes per pair 
Men's dress shoes per pair 

250.00 720.00 2,500;0 13L38 456.20 
Child's dress .. . 
shoes per pair 15.00 240.00 350;00 43.79 63.86 
Pantyhose 

per pair 15.00 100.00 200.00 18.24 36.49 
Skirt 

each 200.00 850.00 1,850.00 155.10 337.59 
Gasoline 

per gallon 1.53 4.61 2.10 ·­
92ocrane 


Martinez: Drug war showing progress 
SAN ANTONIO (AP)-White House drug policy adviser Bob Martinez defended the Bush administration's anti-drug spending Tuesday and pre­dicted a drug summit here will yield more cooperation and show continued need for eco­nomic incentives to reduce coca production. 
Martinez made the remarks on the eve of a two-day summit President Bush is hosting Wednesday and Thursday for leaders of Colombia, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador and Mexico and the foreign minister of Venezuela. 
The summit is a follow-up to a similar meeting Bush at­tended in 1990 in Cartagena, Colombia, where the United 


Natalie Cole wins seven Gram my Awards 
NEW YORK (AP) -Natalie Cole's sentimental, high-tech tribute to her late father reigned as the big winner at Tuesday night's Grammy Awards, getting the prizes for record, album and song of the year and accumulating seven prizes in all. 
"I was really not expecting this. When people start telling you you're going to win some­thing you get totally paranoid," a beaming Cole said after a standing ovation when the record award was announced. 
"I thank my dad for leaving me such a wonderful, wonder­ful heritage," she said, referring to the late Nat "King" Cole. She 



St. Ed's 
continued from page 1 
compromised. The negative presented the argument that the morality of a public figure is pertinent and might have an impact on the way the voters perceive the individual. They finished by exclaiming: "And we're trying to be cool but we love it!" Former underground darlings R.E.M. also were warmly embraced by the music industry. The group picked up three prizes, as did Bonnie Raitt, who swept the 1990 Grammys to rejuvenate her career. 

Raitt won for best pop female vocal ("Something to Talk About"), best solo rock vocal performance (for the album "Luck of the Draw"), and for her duet with Delbert McClinton on "Good Man, Good Woman." 
The Judds, the country mother-daughter team that an­nounced its breakup, won two Grammys for the song, "Love 
argued that the public has a right to know. 
The Off-campus team took the position that a person's personal life should remain pri­vate, providing that the per­son's actions are legal. They said that in the media today, someone accused is assumed guilty and, as a result, must shoulder the burden of proof in Can Build a Bridge." Michael Bolton won the best pop male vocal award for "When a Man Loves a Woman." 
Song of the Year, a writer's prize, went to Irving Gordon for "Unforgettable." 
"It's nice to have a song come out that doesn't scream, yell, (or) have a nervous breakdown while it talks about tender­ness," said Gordon, who wrote the song in the early 1950s. "Also, it's nice to have a song accepted that you don't get a hernia when you sing it." 
The winning song is a spliced­together duet with Cole's father, who died of lung cancer in 1965. 
order to demonstrate their in­nocence. 
The judges agreed that the St. Edward's team's cross-exami­nation was especially important in giving them the advantage. Best Speaker was awarded to Kristen Murphy of St. Edward's. 
St. Edward's will face Alumni in the March 3 final in the lies­burgh Library auditorium. 


In Moscow, markets beginning to stabilize 
MOSCOW (AP} -Nearly eight weeks after price reforms were launched, the cost of food and goods is no longer rising as rapidly and supplies have im­proved some, an Associated Press survey of Moscow stores shows. 
Consumers also have changed their buying and eating habits because of the higher prices. Sausage, cheese, butter, eggs and some other staples that were hard to find before the Jan. 2 price increases are now readily available, but at prices that force shoppers to buy Jess. 
Spot shortages of goods such as cooking oil continue, accord­ing to the AP's "Moscow Mar­ketbasket," a weekly survey conducted since Dec. 31 of se­lected stores in the capitaL 
"Since the prices rose, the lines are longer, but the food is no more or less plentiful than it was," Leonid Leyin said Tues­day as he paid 50 rubles for a kilogram (2.2 pounds) of fatty meat. That price is seven times more than before Jan. 2 . 
The average monthly salary is 960 rubles based on an average 175 hours of work per month. At the current exchange rate, $1 is worth about 70 rubles. 
Leyen said he used to buy meat more often, "but now I buy it only occasionally, maybe once every two weeks." 
The price of butter, which jumped from 10 rubles a kilo­gram before Jan. 2 to 52 rubles on Jan. 14, seems to have leveled off at 56 rubles. 
Sugar remains scarce. Milk, nearly impossible to find in the first weeks of January, now is more available. But of seven stores checked Tuesday, only three had some milk for sale. 
While that is slightly worse than last week, consumers and store managers say milk seems to be arriving with greater reg­ularity. Milk is one of the few goods still under price controls, and its cost has risen only about three times: from 64 kopecks a liter before Jan. 2 to 1.95 rubles this week. 
Irina Kuznetsov, 70, left one store with 10 liters of milk Tuesday after waiting in line with 50 people. 
"This is not unusual for me," said Kuznetsov, who uses it to make "tvorog" -similar to cottage cheese -for the five members of her family, instead of buying meat. 


is accepting applications for the paid positions of Assistant Ad Design Manager and Ad Designer. 
Those interested should be familiar with the Macintosh and have design skills. Contact Kevin Hardman at 239-5305 if any questions. 

********************* COMEDY SHOWCASE 
!ID~wo~ li\!l~~u~w ~ l]j(ill~~ $ llil uou ~ wa ~ [Ji) ~ 
* * ******** * *
as seen on:
* * 
* 
Comedy on the Road Comic Strip Liue * 
* *
MTU 1/2 Hr. Comedy Hr.
* *
Caroline's Comedy Club
* * 
Showtime * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
8:99 pm Feb. 28 in Theodore's 
Tickets $3 at the Lafortune BoH Office $fJJ TfU$fFfJJ rr:TJU@JN rEfJD{ff)f!dfJJNTffEfilffJ g 
********************* 
Bob Martinez 
States, Colombia, Peru and Bo­livia were represented. 
The San Antonio gathering includes countries known for growing coca -the plant used to make cocaine -and nations where the drug is manufac­
tured and shioped. Martinez said the summit likely will take international cooperation in the drug war a step further. 
"Unlike other kinds of crimes, this one's truly international," he said of drug trafficking. "This is a bunch of bandits, ruthless, who violate the sovereignty of nations." 
Despite claims by critics that increased anti-drug spending bas not shown results, Martinez said the United States is making progress in fighting drug trafficking and use. 
Federal spending on drug control has increased 93 per­cent since 1988 to $12.7 billion. Of that, 44 percent is devoted to controlling supply through law enforcement, Martinez said. 
~----~-~-----~ 
~-~----------------------"""""l 
Wednesday, February 26, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Irish court hears case on abortion 
DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) ­Protesters scuffled with police outside Parliament Tuesday while the Supreme Court heard more arguments in the case of a 14-year-old girl barred from leaving Ireland for an abortion. 
Some 300 demonstrators protesting the order struggled with police while trying to re­move barriers outside the Par­liament buildings. 
Five Supreme Court judges heard a second day of argu­ments, and another session was scheduled for Wednesday. The closed hearing had been ex­pected to last two days, with a judgment by the end of the week. It was not known if the extra day of arguments will de­lay the ruling. 
The attorneys have not laid out their arguments in public, but are likely to focus on whether Ireland can forbid its citizens from going to another country in order to do some­thing that is legal in that coun­try. 
Ireland, a member of the 12­nation European Community, has signed treaties that guar­antee freedom of travel. 


Sour08: 'Induced Abortion: A World Review"; 1990 Supplement. by Stanley K. Henshaw and Evelyn Morrow APIT. 
The Observer is accepting applications for the paid position of: 
Design Editor 
This position coordinates computer layout and design. No computer experience is necessary. 
Evening  and  late  night  positions  
available.  
Those  interested  should  contact  

Jeanne Blasi at 239-5303. 
IN PLt\IN SIMPLE ENGLISH 

Dis-tin "-gwisht 
The newest threat from Eastern Europe: Automobiles being stolen in Germany 
BONN, Germany (AP)-Hey, crease over 1990. At least a wanna buy a Porsche? Low third of the cars are believed to mileage. A real road-burner. have disappeared to the East, Just the ticket for an East Eu­mostly to neighboring Poland. ropean entrepreneur in need of Rudolf Seiters, Germany's a Western status symbol. federal interior minister, says 
Many eastern Europeans are mobsters in Poland and Russia eager to buy pricey cars, and are the leaders of many car­they're getting their pick of theft rings. tens of thousands -stolen Motorwelt, a car magazine, from the streets of Germany. came up with a little rhyme that The vast criminal enterprise characterizes the speed and has sprung up with the fall of deftness with which the car the Iron Curtain. thieves work: 
A record 39,000 unsolved "Hardly stolen, already in missing-car cases are on Ger­Poland." many's 1991 police books, a Many buyers have no idea the staggering 66.7 percent in-cars have been stolen, authori­
ties say. 
The epidemic has generated anxiety in German car owners, anger in insurers and a sense of helplessness among German detectives who are unable to touch the kingpins because they live in foreign lands. 
to separate or mark off by differences; perceive or show the 
noel< o ~;out. • ,JAZZ • GOSPEL • f~I:W Mli!>IC • !.>I lOW f\ltii'S • SOUNIJIIlACI<!.i • Gl.J\SSICAL • llAI' • INSI'!nAIIONAI. • t.OM[IJY 0
difference in; differentiate; to be an essential characteristic of; 
EXI:IlCISr MW>IC • CIIIUJIIEN'S • OLUES o COliN lilY • 1'01' • I:ASY USIENIHG o COMEDY • 11EGGAF • IMPOniS • BLUEUIIASS • lll:AVY MF I AI. o nOCI< • ~;OlJL o .JAZZ o <;OSPEI. • NEW MUSH: • SIIUW I UN[S • SUUNIJI11ACI<S o ClASSICAL o 11AP • INSP!nAIIONAL • CUMEIJY 0 EXE11CISE MUSIC o CIIILlli1EN'S o BLUES o COUNinY o rOI' 0 EASY 
characterize; to perceive clearly; recognize plainly by any of the 
senses; to separate and classify; give distinction to. 
LISIENING o COMEDY • 11EGGAE 
ME IAL o flOCK o SOUL • .IAZZ • 
o SOUNUfllACKS • EXE11CISE MUSIC • IISIENifm • ME IAL •


Stood"-nt 
SOU NOT 

one who studies, or investigates. 
a-word" 
to give by the decision of a law court or arbitrator; to give as the result of judging the relative merits of those in competition; grant. 
o JAZZ

the Dis-tin'-gwisht Stood'-nt d-word' 
• ClASSICAL XEI1CISE MUSIC • CHILDREN'S 
"A lot of people are suddenly discovering car alarms," said Barbara Koch, spokeswoman for Germany's HUK insurance group. 
Fearing they will lose their own cars, Hertz and Avis have slapped restrictions on driving rentals into the East. A Hertz customer can drive an ordinary Volkswagen but not a Mercedes into Poland, and the former So­viet Union is totally off-limits. 
Hamburg, a north German port city, has become a favorite target of the car rings, because it is full of luxury cars and a fast drive on an autobahn to the Polish border. 
Michael Weiss, Hamburg's deputy chief of detectives, said several local thieves have been arrested recently. 
"But these are little fish, not the people who contracted for cars to be stolen," he said. 

o IMPOnTS o lASS 0 IIEAVY lOW lllNES 
• EASY 
o HEAVY 
SIIOWTUNES I NAL o COMEDY o 
o COUNTRY o POP o EAS1 
o IMPORTS • BLUEGI1ASS • HEAVY 

• 
GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC o SIIOW TUNES 

• 
RAP o INSPIRI\TIONAL o COMEDY o 


o BLUES o COUNTRY o POP o EASY 
LISTENING o COMEDY o REGGAE o IMPORTS • BLUEG11ASS o IIEAVY METAL o ROCK • SOUL o JAZZ, • GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC o SIIOWTUNES
Nomination forms for the Distinguished Student Award are 
o SOUNDTRACKS • CLASSICAL o RAP o INSPI11ATIONAL • COMEDY o EXEI1CISE MUSIC o CHILDI1EN'S o BLUES o COUNTRY o POP o EASY LISTENING o COMEDY o REGGAE• IMPORTS o BLUEGRASS • HEAVY METAL o ROCK o SOUL o JAZZ o GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC • SIIOW TUNES o SOUNllfnACKS • CLASSICAL o 11AP o INSPIRATIONAL o COMEUY o 
available in the Alumni Association, LaFortune, the Library Lobby 
and the entrances of North and South Dining Halls. 
EXEI1CISE MUSIC o CHILllREN'S o BLUES o COUNTRY o POP • EASY LISTENING o COMEUY o REGGAE• IMPOnTS o BLUEGRASS • HEAVY METAL • 110CK • SOUL o JAZZ o GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC o SIIOW TUNES 
Who Do You Know? 





Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, February 26, 1992 

r 
r r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
Dear Editor: dent or assess blame. Rather, Prior to January 24, 1992, the we want to begin to sincerely concept of a wNotre Dame thank the thousands of people Family" meant little to us. We who have prayed for Haley's had heard the phrase used dur­recovery. We have never before Ing the freshmen orientation experienced such an outpouring activities and had seen it in of genuine love and support as University literature. But only we have received from family since the early morning hours and friends everywhere, and of January 24, 1992, and the particularly the students, fac­accident that has forever ulty, administration and alumni changed our lives and the life of of Notre Dame. our daughter, Haley, have we We were pleased when Haley learned firsthand that there re­chose to attend Notre Dame; ally is a wNotre Dame Family" but now, having personally ex­and what it means to be part of perienced the warmth and car­Dear Editor: like to be a visiting opponent of a Catholic University, that family. ing of the Notre Dame Family, What a game! This sentiment here at Notre Dame. A however, displayed no Certainly, we were not the only we cannot imagine her being seemed to sum up the feeling barrage of insults fell upon my maturity or Christian atti­family affected by the accident. anywhere else. of the majority of the fans back, directed at the team in tudes. I didn't expect them to Our hearts go out to the Beeler Thank you, Notre Dame, for leaving the JACC after front of me. I could not believe go out and hug the opponent, and Hlpp families for the tragic your prayers, love and support. Saturday's basketball game some of the harsh words but I also didn't expect a loss of Meghan and Colleen. You have truly made a differ­against the UCLA Bruins. aimed at the Bruin's players incessant badgering either. And every other person on that ence in Haley's continuing re­Unfortunately, I didn't feel and coaches. These few, who The entire game I felt sick to bus, whether physically injured covery. like participating in everyone's stood directly behind the my stomach, probably or not, was traumatized by the excitement. Instead my regard bench, attacked many aspects suffering from a extreme case terrifying experience. Stephen and Charlotte Scott for the abilities, courage, and of this team, intending to of embarrassment. 
However, the purpose of this Phoenix, AZ overall determination of the intimidate and demean. Yet Insults were directed at me letter Is not to discuss the acci-Feb.21,1992 Notre Dame men's team they were degrading not only when I was a high school ath­


became overshadowed by the to the UCLA players and lete and I can only say that I rudeness and disrespectful coaches, but also to this empathized with this fine actions of a few of my fellow university. team from California. For students here at this despite losing to a team that university. Even during half-time they just recently broke even and 
During Saturday's game, I staked themselves out in the suffering an onslaught of ugly was fortunate enough to sit tunnel by the visitor's locker comments, they displayed a behind the UCLA visitor bench room and again verbally as­great deal of class. as I am a student manager saulted the players when they I just hope that in the future and was assisting in this returned to the court. These the fans' enthusiasm and game. I was looking forward students had no respect. An loyalty will be directed posi­to being so close to the action, usher, who was in charge of tively and respectfully, so that surrounded by thousands of this area, did nothing to curb all can enjoy the game. avid fans. From the first their remarks. moments, however, my Yet why should he? He Teresa Gehred enthusiasm became tainted. expects that we are adults and Lyons Hall 
I soon learned what it felt behave civilly. These members Feb.23,1992 
DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Be more concerned with 
your character than with your reputation, because character is what you really are while reputation is merely what others think you are.' 
John Wooden Coach of the UCLA Bruins 
Don't be a loser, submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Accent 

Wednesday, February 26, 1992 page 9 

Paige Smoron 
Non Sequiturs 

Random hazards on the way to class 
I 
'm late ... I'm late ... I'm late ... 
I'm going to rush in, and he's going to 
look at me, and he's going to say, "Miss 
Smoron! How nice of you to decide to 
join us!" and I'm just going to stare him 
down, and tell him exactly what /­
OUCH. 

Dammit. A scuff mark. like I'm going to be able to find teal shoe polish in South Bend­
"Hi." 
"Hi." 
Who was that? 
Why didn't I wear my glasses? 

I won't be able to see the slides in class, either. But then again, ifhe's just going to be showing examples of abstract expressionism, will it really make a difference? I mean, everything willjust be a little abstracterfor me, that's all­
"Hi." 
"Hi." 

Oh shoot, I never gave her back her notes, did I? Well, is it my fault she takes reams of notes? She had like four footnotes from one day's lecture. Who can possibly find that much to say about minima/ism? Doesn't that kind of defeat the purpose? 
I'm late ... I'm late ... I'm late ... 
Dammit. 

I know this guy. He was in my social dance 
class three years ago. He yelled at me for not 
taking the fox trot seriously-
Please don't see me. Please don't see me. 

Look down. I am looking at my shoes. I cannot possibly notice you because I am too preoccupied with this scuffmark which is just screaming for teal Kiwi polish, although I might be able to get away with something with more ofa forest tint ... 
Okay. He's past. 
Oh wait-that wasn't him. 
Why didn't I wear my glasses? 
I'm late ... I'm late ... I'm late ... 
"Hi." 
"Hi." 
"Hi." 

Oh, how cute. They wear their backpacks the 
same way. Do couples start to look alike, like 
when poodle owners look like poodles? They 
kind of walk alike. I wonder what I look like 
when/ walk ... 
Dammit. 
Now I'm thinking about it. 
Now I'm definitely walking funny. 

Okay, think about something else. My, what a 
darling squirrel. And you scamper so naturally. Do you have rabies, Mr. Squirrel?­
"Hi, Paige. Why are you walking funny?" 
Dammit. 
I'm late ... I'm late ... I'm late ... 

I didn't even do the reading. Maybe I can skim 
a little now. ·In order to fully appreciate Andy Warhol's innovative film, which focuses on a man receiving a-" 
Whoops! Here we are. 
"Sorry I'm late ... " 
"Hi, Paige. Wrong room." 
Dammit. 
Why didn't I wear my glasses? 

OUCH. "Hi, Paige. You know, I've never seen anyone 
fall up stairs before." 
Dammit. 

And it's all because I'm probably still walking funny-
J'm going to have to buy new shoes, and I'll never find teal and end up compromising with kelly green­
"Sorry I'm late ... " 
Don't say it. Please don't say it­

"Miss Smoron! So nice of you to decide to join us." 
Dammit. 

Paige Smoron is Assistant Accent Editor ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 

,_ 
Cast members of "Stepping Out" will keep audiences laughing, starting tonight at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's Little Theatre. 
Tappity Tappity Tappity 
'Stepping Out' displays the best and worst of tap dancing 
By MAGGIE HELLRUNG 
Accent Writer 
"A Chorus Line" in disguise? Possibly-but with a lot less singing, and a lot more laughs. 
"Stepping Out," presented by the Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Dance, and Theater, is a display of both the best and the worst 
------------amateur tap dancing 
ever viewed on the
'I think it's probably Notre Dame/Saint the next best thing to Mary's campus. 
Directed by Les 
a musical.' 
Baird, written by-Keri Latherow Richard Harris, and produced by Roberta 
-----------N. Rude, "Stepping Out" opens tonight at 8 p.m. at the Little Theater, located at Saint Mary's. The performances will continue through Saturday, Feb. 29, with a Sunday matinee at 2:30 p.m. on March 1. "Stepping Out" follows the lives of eight women and one man who try to conquer their inhibitions and clumsy feet in order to learn to tap dance. The wacky group of left feet create a hilarious setting for the play. When they are not fooling around, fighting amongst themselves, or when their instructor, Mavis, isn't attempting to teach them, the ragged crew is learning more about themselves and each other. Each member of the class manages to bring in personal problems and work through them 
together in tap class, finally working towards a tap 
triumph in their dance recital. 
"Stepping Out" doesn't just have a diverse combination of dancers on stage, but off as well. The case consists of seven Saint Mary's students, two Notre Dame law students, and one Notre Dame student. 
After casting for the production in Nov., the group of dedicated stmfents went to work with the director, producer, and especially the choreographer, Julia Mayer McCarthy. Only three actors out of the ten had prior tap experience, so the crew immediately enrolled in a tap class which met twice a week. 
When the team was not in class, they were practicing long hours on stage. "It got to the point where some of us were so good at tapping that we had to 'fake' screwing up on the stage," explained Keri Latherow, one of the cast members. "I think it's probably the next best thing to a musical." 
Philip Patnaude has designed the set for "Stepping Out," and David Corothers is in charge of costume design. The groups of actors that will be tapping away this week include Kim Tomko, Jill Hotek, Brynn Umhofer, Susan Toth, Keri Latherow, Cecelia Martin, Stephen Zayko, Alyssa Moehle, Dianne Reed, and Shayla Richards. 
Tickets are available at the Saint Mary's box · office located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. General Admission tickets are $6, $5 for students, and $3 for Saint Mary's students. Visa and Master Card orders are accepted by phone at (219) 284-4626. 
Accent 
Wednesday, February 26, 1992page 10 
Although watching Astbury not react like a lunatic when 
stage performance was very you see the Cult perform. 
enjoyable, it was the heavy As the cult performed such
Kravitz, Cult invade the JACC 
music of the Cult that truly classics as "She Sells By Fran Moyer university's newspaper. reveling in the moment created made the concert worth my Sanctuary" and "Peace Dog," a 
Accent writer Despite Astbury antics, by Kravitz, the Cult took the $12. majority of the crowd barelyKravitz was able to end his stage. In my opinion, the crowd O.K., I admit "heavy" is an reacted, only bopping their 
It was an odd evening at the performance on a cheerful note was not ready for the assault overused word in a music heads to the groovy beat. JACC last night as Lenny by singing his hit, "Let Love that lay ahead. critic's vocabulary, but I know One of the strongest reactions Kravitz and the Cult invaded Rule." Before finishing this no other way to describe their by the crowd to the Cult's music our placid campus. song, however, the ever-so Performing mostly songs from music. was during the encore, if you 
The concert started off with righteous Kravitz began to their recent Ceremony, the Cult During the concert, I felt like want to call it that, when the Lenny Kravitz taking the stage spout his "love" line. played as loud and hard as they someone was slowly drilling a band played "Firewoman" and After a few minutes of have in the past. In fact, their
and attempting to take all of us hole in my skull. For some odd "Love Removal Machine." 
back to the Sixties. After all hearing how beautiful we all intensity on this tour appeared reason, however I liked that Perhaps the largest reaction was said and done, he did an were and how much he loved to be much higher than it had feeling and wanted desperately by the crowd all night occurred alright job. God, people and the planet, he on previous tours. for the crowd to feel the same when Kravitz ran out on stage Kravitz's performance was led the crowd in a massive Asbury was in control from way. in an outfit that revealed his interrupted a few times by the show of positive energy by the beginning as he took the The crowd did not seem to butt. It is a shame that this got 
Cult's Ian Astbury, who paraded urging everyone to hold hands. stage in his typical black outfit. take as enthusiastically to the the most reaction out of the around a sign stating things not I couldn't help but have Throughout the show, be Cult's music as I would have crowd. There was so much able to mentioned in a flashbacks to We Are the World. danced around stage like a liked. I admit that it is an more to react to, like the music politically-correct Catholic As the crowd was still banshee on acid. acquired taste, but how can you of the Cult. 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts ctassifleds every business day from 10 am. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame oftlca. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3p.m. at the Saint Mary's oftice. 309 Haggar Collage Canter. Deadline for next-day claaa~leda Ia 3p.m. All claaaWieds must be prepaid. The charge Ia 2 cants per character per day. Including allspacaa.  
I need a ride for break (and back) 10  SAT.· Margariraville at  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  Fitz, Drew, Paul·  
Philly·WIIm.·S. NJ area. Will share  TICkets  Bridget's... Free nacho bar+  RICH "SLACK" CAMPBELL  The sexiest guy I know. (sad, isn't  
Notices  costs, etc. leave alter 4 Thurs or  upside down margariras.  it?) Thanks lor Friday. It was a  
thereafter. Great company!  Cheap 1-way air ticket from Philly 10  Sorry I ditched you on your  nighht to remember!  
USED TEXTBOOKSI  Amy x4290  South Bend on March 15-2n·  I have read every message you  21st! I'm glad the club has been  -Margaret  
Buy & Sell Books  7483  sent. Ya, I'd like to reconsider it.  reunited--see, not All great things  
Pandora's Books  come to an end.  Tom Ninneman is a stud!  
3 blks. from NO  For Rent  $NEED 1 ST. JOHN's GA x2558  SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS SEXY  Have a good one, dude!  
233-2342/10.5:30 M-Sun  LEGS SEXY LEGS SEXY LEGS  Scottie (Jasperimus),  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  HELP! I NEED A RIDE TO  To the greatest big brother and  
In ancient Rome  219-291·7153.  Personal  Krispy·  CINCINNATI/DAYTON AREA  friend· Good luck in the Bouts  
there was a poem  If you even try it,  THIS WEEKEND. WILL PAY  tonight. Just don't let 'em punch  
about a dog  NEED A COMFORTABLE PLACE  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  I'll have your bleach  GAS/FOOD$ X2272  you in the nose, OK?  
who lound two bones  FOR PARENTS TO STAY FOR  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  confiscated·  I love ya,  
he licked the one  UPCOMING WEEK-ENDS? Call  lor a quote 9:30-6:00,  Bill  Please help meIIII My leather jacket  Anne  
he licked the other  Home B&B 291·0535. Approved by  289·1993. Office near campus.  was accidently taken from  
he went In circles  IN B&B Assoc.  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  Theodores Sat. night. Also I lost my  Scott,  
he dropped dead  SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA  Info on semester, year, graduate,  black Braeler coat at the SMC  If you kick some bun, we'll go  
de\10  SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL •  BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN,  summer and internship programs in  Soph. formal  I have no coats II CAll  shopping again. Good luck tonight!  
3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE  4/RM. prices. Daytona $149,  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  Becky at284·4107  love, Amy K.  
TYPING AVAILABLE  OF FACILITIES,  Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrlrt &  Melbourne. Programs start at  
287·4082.  KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO.  Trans Available. Call CMI at HIOO.  $3520. Call1·800-878-3696.  
NICE NEIGHBORHOOO  423·5264.  Scot, Monday was so wonderful  Good luck Drew "Chops"  
NEED RIDE TO OR NEAR  &HOME.  SUMMER JOBS  with you. Don't worry you'll win next  Dougherty and Greg "Slug em and  
CHAMPAIGN ll BY EARLY PMON  CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  year.  Chug em" Kearey.  
TH. MAR 5. WILL SPLIT COSTS.  PAUL 232·2794.  O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO.  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  ·Becky  
CALL MIKE 1668  SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  
t  TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE AVAILABLE FOR SUMMER  NO BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 1·800-833·5555.  LAKE PLACID. CALL1·800-786· 8373  Pooh Bear, don't worry, I'm here lor  Tandy 100 TX Computer/IBM Compat.  
~  lost and Found  SUBLET · CHEAP FOR FOUR STUDENTSII DO NOT PAY  His eyes OPEN IIIII  The lizard King lives on I Down with  you when you need me. you,  Love  All original software Must sell Asking $600.00  
LOST: GRAY COAT WITH  EXPENSIVE DORM RATES AND  the Crustaceans!  rene  284·5232  
~  FLANNEL LINING IN KEENAN  PUT UP WITH RULES· HANG BY  "let's go Greyhound on spring  
~  HALL ON FRIDAY 2121. CALL TIM  THE POOL!I!I CALL X3414 •  break. 50% off anywhere we go.  HURRYI Don't Miss Out. SOUTH  ERIN, AMY, and BILL may be  Congratulations  
t  283·2004.  MESSAGE.  Restrictions apply. Call 287·6541"  PADRE and CANCUN SPRING BREAK of "92"1 Seven night  inferior to ANDREA, MELISSA, and KEVIN in bowling, but  Krista Smith, the bride to be All the best  
Found: Dorm Key on black  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO.,  Shaka: When the walls fell  packages from $199. lowest prices  they are superior in many  love, Jen and Erin  
~  Observer key chain, rm. 118. Call  FOR LARGE 4-BR, FURNISHED  guaranteed. Call Orion Tours  other ways.  
x4290 10 claim.  HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY  Avon $$$ Saies. New Commission  TODAY: 1·8Q0.800·6050.  Thanks to all lor making my 21st  
SYSTEM: WASHER & DRYER; g.  earnings selling at work/home. 232·  HELPII need a ride to New  unforgettable I  
t  Found: 9:15am 2·24·92 in front of Morrissey, a pair of blue eyeglasses  MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259·7801 OR 255-5852.  0014.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Jersey lor break x3384  love, Erin  
in a blue cloth case. To claim call  THEY'RE HERE!  LaFortune Student Center  Good luck Jen Beisty  
x2067  6·7 BDRM HOME. NEAR  RECYCLABLE MUGS  We're Open EverydayIll  NEED RIDE to PHILLYISJ area lor  We know you'd make the best RA  
CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306  12 oz. & 20 oz.  break-call Sam x4863  
LOST: Blue 10 holder with student  Save $.10 on Beverage Refills  SOUTH PADRE ISLAND  29 days 'til the DEAD!  
10 & NORTH DAKOTA DRIVER'S  Rent Frat House '92·'93  at Oakroom, Huddle, Nite Oak,  NEED RIDE 2LONG ISINYINJ  
LICENSE.If have please cail Randi  Allegro, Waddick's, Decio  Condominiums lor Spring Break.  area-call Ellen x4863  Dear Melanie and Fran,  
257-8534. Desperately needed or  Pooltble, Serurity System, 2  REDUCE-REUSE-RECYCLE  $20 per person per nighV off beach  Conratulations on your  
can't go on Spring Break. No ?'s.  kegerators (full bar),5Bedrms  $25 per person per nighV beach  TO ROSIE, ROSELLA, SONIA AND  engagement! You are both very  
P.S. All bars have been conractedl  (houses 8·9),fully furnished,  MARCH FOR WOMEN'S LIVES!  front  JOANNA,  lucky. All the best wishes forever!  
2bath, Cheap rent.  1·800.422·8212.  MANOII CAN'T WAIT 'TIL SPRING  Love, Kristin and Kelly  
lost: A leather bracelet with  Call nowll234·6976  PROCHOICE ACTIVISTS: HELP  BREAK Ill  
enomous sentimental value. If  ORGANIZE the Michiana Coalition  I NEED A RIDE TO N.Y/N.Y.C/  TO THE REST OF THE GANG,  EARL'S COURT playing at SMC  
found, please call283·3153.  COLLEGE PARK CONDO·  to go to the Freedom of Choice  anywhere round' there for Spring  SEE VA' AT PADRE Ill  coffeehouse. Sat., February 29th  
········LosT··········  Ironwood & Bulla • 2 BIR • 2 Bath · available immediately· call 287·  Rally in Washington, DC. Call lor more information 232·6495 or 284­ Break. Gastdrivin Paul2464  THANKSFORANAWESOME YEAR I  Carla,  
A thin gold rope chain bracelet  0534 or 271·9268.  5136.  CIAO, MARl  God,lleel so sexy when I do the  
somewhere between Loftus, NOH,  DRIVER NEEDED:  P.S. SO, HOW ABOUT TONIGHT, I  EARTHQUAKE!  
and Hayes-Healy.  Turdeaeek townhouse available lor  Hey P.I.-Do you have a date yet?  FROM WASHINGTON, D.C. TO  DON'T HAVE ANY HOMEWORK ...  
Great sentimenral valuellllll  summer months. Furnished. Call  Sray tuned...StiiiiN PROGRESSII  SOUTH BEND AT END OF  NOTIII  Happy 21st Birthday Peter Saine!  
Please help! Call SARA at x4940 if  2n·6259.  SPRINGBREAK. PLEASE CALL  love, Kristin Jen, Erin, and Molly  
you have it.  TO THE ONE WHO LIKES  PATTY AT 312·871·2405.  To the guy in the blazer who backed  
TOM TOM'S SMILE.  into the accord at Stepan  Everyone Everyone  
"""FOUNo•••  For Sale  I HAVEN'T A CLUE WHO YOU  FLORIDA ON A BUDGET. $100.00  on Sunday night ... I've got your  Edward Vasquez is 21111  
Mini 36mm camera  ARE? COULD YOU PLEASE  per person per week. Fort Myers  numberIll  
between Mod Quad and  CHEAP! FBVU.S. SEIZED  GIVE ME ANOTHER ?  area 1·813-353-1437.  
NOH. Was found before  cap-n-cork cap-n·cork cap-n·  Happy Birthday Sarah Burkel!  
Christmas Break.  89 Mercedes......................$200  I need a ride 10 the DETROIT AREA  someday, the giant dog of rejection  cork cap-n-cork cap-n-cork?  
86VW .................................... $50  for Spring Break. HELPI Beth  will pass amiably by the rotting  
Call Joe at 1208  87 Mercedes...... -...............$1 00  x4341  steak of helpless losers  Snatcherella,  
65 Mustang..........................$50  Phenomenal & Classy I always am.  Miitch Kern wears Superman  
Wanted  Choose from thousands srarting $25.  SPRING BREAK · S. PADRE ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON  NO Mock Trial Team #921 Top Ten Bad Memories of Iowa  To describe you: EASY. I'd say lush. .s.  Underoos.  
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals  RESORT" BEACHFRONT  1O.Terry's hat  PS ·Hi B.D.  
GREEN CORPS CAMPAIGN  Details 801·379·2929 Copyright  PARTIESI SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR,  9....KCC, yeah you know me...  liza,  
ORGANIZERS Field training and  IIN11KJC  SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY  8.0ne wonders why.  ATTENTION SMC or NO students  Be forewarned that we have a  
team organizing on critical enviro  OWNER. 1·212·472·1414.  ?.This gum is still delicious.  driving to the D.C. area for Spring  date on Tuesday immediately alter  
campaigns. Salaried positions in 30  FOR SALE: SMC approved loft.  6.St. louis! Notre Dame!  break. SMCIND Alum dubs willing  Spring Break to learn a couple new  
cities. For info (303) 355-1881 or  $80 call284·5174.  We are Strong I  5.Are you a nutritionalist?  to pay gas, tolls, and food $ lor  dances and share a PAIL!  
the Career Center.  4.1'm so happy I could cry.  delivery of a school desk measuring  
MAC+ with 2 DRIVES and HARD  canrun countdown: 9 days. Marge,  3.The Cove  2'10"x1'6"x2'3". Ill interested please  Dear Ben, Ryan, Ed, Erin, Jenn,  
AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS  DRIVE with tons of SOFTWARE.  we need some serious anti·  2.0ooob-ject·ion. Oh, sorry...  call Carrie 284·5157 ASAP!  and Molly:  
phone orders. People Call you. Will  asking $000 Chris2n9442  snacking antidotes.  1. WHAT'S UP WITH THAT?  I hope you're starting to get psyched  
Train. 1-80()..727·9716 Ext. 555. 24  From Jacqueline Dupras Metcalf,  To anyone who taped the US vs.  for our big day at the end ol Marchi  
HRS.  New skis K2·180  Don't go back to Basix Wed...  Accountant.  ltaiy Hockey game on Feb. 9:  
BARTENDER INTERVIEWS AT BRIDGET'S W·F 2:3().4:30 $350.00' DAY PROCESSING  Nordica Boots 11 Poles,accessories $300 289-3317 MOUNTAIN BIKE II  Get the same deal at BRIDGETS... It's closer! !I Thurs.· "live" at Bridget's From East lansing... "THE JUVENILES"  Butcher Butcher La Ia Ia Butcher Butcher Butcher Butcher Ia Ia Ia Butcher butcher Butcher Butcher Ia Ia Ia  Could I please tape it from you??ll $$$ VERY IMPORTANT$$$ call Michelle 284·5531 Tina, Jule, Mary Beth·  GUARANTEED ALASKA JOBS ex. $100<4/Wk. room. boa~d & airfare. New, '92: BO pg. guide reveals mosl currenl JJOspects in: Fishilg, 011. Alaska Toath,. PlaNll!lent, Degreed jobs, Conslruction. & mudl more. Weekly info available. Stale liscensed agency  
PHONE OADEASI PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1·800-255-0242.  20" Black Cannondale. Great cond. Suntour Comp. $300 Free U· lock. Call Amy x421 0  Fri.· Get rooted at Bridget's with "The TREES"  Butcher Butcher Ha HaHa!  Congrats on your big win! -your biggest fan P.S. Tina· you're an animal  Alasl<emp Guaranlee: Secure Alaska job, or 100% refund. Send $9.95 • S3 S&H to: Alaskemp, Box 1236. X. Corval6s. OR 97339.  


Wednesday, February 26, 1992 The Observer page 11 
SCOREBOARD 

FLYERS 60, IRISH 58 
NOTRE DAME (t1·12) 
Ellis 4-7 2-5 10, Taylor 2-5 o-o 4, Tower 5-8 o-o 10, Bennett 7-15 2-3 20, Sweet 4-10 3-4 12, Boyer 0-1 0-0 0, Russell o-o o-o 0, Jon Ross 1-4 o-o 2, Joe Ross o-o o-o 0. Tolals 23-50 7-12 58. DAYTON (14·13) 
Robertson 4-9 3-8 13. Hare 3-8 2-2 8, Coffee 5­11 1-1 12, Scrutchlns 1-8 o-o 2, Dukes 6-14 2-2 15, Gaydosh 2-3 o-o 5. Richter 1-2 o-o 3, Shayok 1-3 0-2 2, SmMh 0-1 0-0 0, Sicard 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 23-59 8-15 60. Halftiroo--Nolre Dame 34, Dayton 29. 3-polnt goals-Notre Dame 5-10 (Bennett 4-7, Sweet 1-2), Dayton 6-11 (Robertson 2-3, Coffee 1-1. Scrutchlns 0-1, Dukes 1-2, Gaydosh 1-2, Richter 1­2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds-Notre Dame 41 (Ellis 20), Dayton 27 (Robertson, Hare 6). Assists-Notre Dame 15 (Sweet 6), Dayton 14 (Robertson 5). Total fouls-Notre Dame 18, Dayton 12. A­12,709. 
REMAINING MEN'S BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Feb. Feb. Mar. Mar. Mar. 9 
BR 

The Observer is accepting applications for the paid positions of: 
Assistant Systems Manager 
Typesetter 
Those interested should contact Patrick Barth at 239-5303. 
Summer Jlousing 
m 
New 
York 
City 
Housing available May 24-August 15 
F'or more information and an application, call toll free 
l-800-282-4NYU 
Ext. 776 
New York University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. 

Will you be working, doing an internship, or enjoying asummer in New York? You can live in the heart of Greenwich Village as an NYU Associate or take acourse in our exciting summer sessions if you wish. 
e Minutes from New York's business and cultural centers 
• Apartment-style and traditional residences; single and double occupancy 
e Outstanding sports-recreation facility 
e Includes the New York Experience, an enjoyable noncredit program exploring careers and culture in New York City 
e Over 1,000 undergraduate, graduate, and professional courses offered day and evening at 
New York 
University 
NYU Summer Housing 3-5 Washington Place New York, N.Y.l0003 

NBA LEADERS  
NBA Leaders through Feb. 24:  
Scoring  
G  FG  
Jordan, Chi.  54  629  
Wilkins, Atl.  42  424  
K. Malone, Ulah  55  546  
Mullln,G.S.  51  556  
Drexler, Port.  53  491  
Ewing, N.Y.  54  538  
Hardaway, G.S.  52  473  
Robinson, S.A.  54  469  
Barkley. Phil.  49  397  
Pierce, Sea.  52  422  
Daugherty, Clev.  47  3n  
Richmond, Sac.  53  440  
Oiajuwon, Hou.  48  409  
Rice, Mia.  54  449  
Miller, Ind.  56  388  
Pippen, Chi.  55  466  
Lewis, Bos.  54  459  
Ellison, Wash.  48  407  
Hornacek, Phoe.  56  451  
J. Malone, LHah  55  470  

FT 
336 294 
428 
236 
272 237 197 292 301 301 288 227 
220 
158 
330 
209 
206 
182 197 187 

Syracuse asks booster to 'step away' 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -A car dealer who allegedly gave Syracuse basketball players Christmas cards containing $50 says school officials have asked him to "step away" from the program. 
Bill Rapp, who denies the charges, said he is willing to abide by the request of Syracuse administrators. Rapp 

., 
~ 
~ l)'b-., 
~ ~· ~~~~~\\ 
~ ~e,~ ~-•
• , ~ cr;?J 

~ '..~.,_.,IM....A.,a·
......,..........,..., 
"SING-A-LONG" 

Ramada Inn -South Bend --1}7 
TONIGHT•••• YOU ARE THE STARtr 
• 

NBA STANDINGS  
EASTERN  CONFERENCE  
Atlantic  Dlvlelon  
Pta 1613 1179 1522 13n 1330 1313 1218  Avg 29.9 28.1 27.7 27.0 25.1 24.3 23.4  New York Boston Miami Philadelphia New Jersey Washington Orlando  w 34 30 26 26 24 18 13  L 20 25 29 29 31 36 42  Pet. .630 .545 .473 .473 .436 .333 .236  
1231 1116 1168 1042 1175 1038 1149 1186 1153 1128  22.8 22.8 22.5 22.2 22.2 21.6 21.3 21.2 21.0 20.9  Central Dlvlaion Chicago 45 Cleveland 36 Detroit 32 Atlanta 28 Milwaukee 25 Indiana 25 Charlotte 19 WESTERN CONFERENCE Midweat Diviaion w  11 17 24 27 29 31 36 L  .804 .679 .571 .509 .463 .446 .345 Pet.  
997 1156 1128  20.8 20.6 20.5  Utah San Antonio Houston  38 32 28  19 23 27  .667 .582 .509  
Denver  20  34  .370  
Dallas  16  38  .296  
Minnesota  10  44  .185  
Pacific Dlvlaion  
Golden State  37  15  .712  
Portland  38  16  .704  
Phoenix  35  21  .625  
Seattle  30  25  .545  
LA Lakers  29  25  .537  
LA Clippers  27  28  .491  
Sacramento  18  37  .327  
Tuesday'• Gamea  
New Jersey 109, Boston 95  
Charlotte 94, Milwaukee 82  
Detro~ 108, Chicago 106  
San Antonio 123, Miami 101  
Utah 106, LA Clippers 101  

is a close friend of coach Jim Boeheim and has acted in the past as Syracuse's official scorer. 
"They've asked me to step away for awhile, which is OK," Rapp said in Tuesday's editions of the Syracuse Herald-Journal. "This is the most sensitive time right now." 
Rapp was accused of giving cash to players in a 500-page report the university has pre­sented to the NCAAssociation. The 13-month probe found 15 violations of NCAA rules. 
The uniyersity expects the NCAA to issue a preliminary letter of inquiry within the next month, which would indicate a formal investigation is under way. 
Rapp did not use the word "disassociate," a term that de-
KASMAN 
Happy Birthday & Lots of Love Mom & Dad, Barb, 
ev&J 
GB 
4112 8.1/2 8 112 10 112 16 21 112 
7 t/2 13 16112 19 20 25 112 
GB 
5 9 16 112 20112 26112 
4 8 112 9 11 112 20112 

NHL STANDINGS 
WALES  CONFERENCE  
Petrick  Dlvlelon  
w  L  T  Pte  
NY Rangers  40  20  4  84  
Washington  37  20  5  79  
New Jersey  32  20  9  73  
Pittsburgh  27  26  8  62  
NY Islanders  26  28  7  59  
Philadelphia  22  28  11  55  
Adame Dlvlalon  
x-Montreal  36  21  7  79  
Boston  28  25  8  64  
Buffalo  23  28  10  56  
Hartford  17  31  11  45  
Quebec  13  39  9  35  
CAMPBELL  CONFERENCE  
Norrie Diviaion  
w  L  T  Pta  
DetroH  35  18  9  79  
St. Louis  29  25  9  67  
Chicago  26  23  13  65  
Minnesola  26  30  5  57  
Toronto  21  35  6  48  
Smythe  Divialon  
Vancouver  33  19  9  75  
Los Angeles  25  24  13  63  
Edmonton  27  29  7  61  
Winnipeg  25  26  11  61  
Calgary  25  27  9  59  
San Jose  13  44  4  30  
x-cllnched playoff berth.  
Monday'•  Game  

Minnesota 3, New Jersey 1 Tueaday'a Game• Late Gamea Not Included 
St. Louis 5. Hartford 2 N.Y. Rangers 4, Chicago 1 Philadelphia 4, N.Y. Islanders 1 New Jersey 5, Toronto 5, tie Washington 5, Pittsburgh 3 Buffalo at Calgary, (n) Los Angeles at Vancouver, (n) 

Wedneeday'a Game• Montreal at Minnesota, 8:05p.m. Winnipeg at Edmonton. 9:35 p.m. Quebec at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 
scribes the university's official severing of a relationship with an individual thought to have violated NCAA rules. 
The university has acknowl­edged disassociating Joseph Gianuzzi, the ousted president of the Hardwood Club who housed Syracuse players during the summer, and Fred Grimaldi, owner of a restaurant where players ate for free. 
Syracuse spokesman Robert Hill was unavailable for com­ment. His office released a statement last week saying it would have no further comment on Syracuse's basketball investigation. 
Rapp also declined to discuss the specifics of the charges against him because of the pos­sible NCAA investigation. Rapp said he cooperated with univer­sity investigators and will coop­erate with the NCAA. 
He said investigators told him five players testified Rapp gave them cash inside Christmas cards. Rapp noted each of the five had been a disgruntled former player. 
BARBERSHOP 
Serving the Notre Dame Community for Over 30 years 
2112 South Bend Ave. Appointments if desired 
272-6722 

j 
I 
~ 
j j j j 
•j • 
• 
! 
l 
j j I 
j l I 
j j I l 
j 
GF 249 
266 
234 258 225 187 
212 208 
220 
179 179 
GF 
263 
219 197 195 
1n 
215 
226 
231 192 231 157 GA 205 208 192 
234 
240 
204 
155 211 231 208 244 
GA 199 209 186 211 231 
187 233 
239 
190 226 278 


The Observer/ Marguerite Schropp 
Catherine Restovich and the other seniors on the Saint Mary's basketball team play their last home game tonight against Calvin College. 
Coaches support Yoder 
CHICAGO (AP) -Steve Yoder's time of the year. But they'll fellow Big Ten basketball bounce back. Yesterday was 24 coaches were shocked and hours but it seemed like a supportive following his forced week." resignation after 10 years at Some of the coaches said win­Wisconsin. ning at Wisconsin was difficult 
"I guarantee you they will not because of a lack of basketball hire a better coach than Steve tradition and an ancient field­Yoder," said Lou Henson of bouse that makes recruiting all Illinois Tuesday in the Big Ten's the more difficult. They also felt weekly teleconference of Yoder had turned the corner coaches. "But we're all grown with some good young talent in 
up and know what happens." Tracy Webster and freshman Yoder resigned Monday effec­Michael Finley. tive at the end of the season 
when athletic director Pat "It's an insult to the Big Ten Richter told Yoder he would not and the coaching profession," recommend renewing his con­Jud Heathcote of Michigan tract, which had one year re­State said. "He did an out­
standing job with limited re­
maining. 

"I'm absolutely disappointed sources and a facility that is at what happened," Yoder said. difficult to recruit to. We had "It's a situation where Pat the same problem (recruiting) 
wants his own man. That's his with Jenison Fieldhouse." prerogative, it's an athletic di­Clem Haskins of Minnesota 
rector's decision." said, "People want to say win­Yoder said the players were ning isn't important and money "shocked and disappointed and isn't important. I felt Steve was 
didn't anticipate this at this doing a good job. 
SPORlS BRIEFS 

•Sportsbrlefs 
are accepted In writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•Baseball 
and Lacrosse officials meeting has been changed from February 26 to February 27. The baseball meeting is at 4:30 and lacrosse is at 5:30 in the J.A.C.C. Auditorium. 


•The Aikido Club holds practices every Monday and 
Wednesday from 6-8 p.m. in 219 Rockne. Everyone is welcome to attend. 
•The 
Rowing Club Is looking for coxswains for both the varsity and novice teams. Interested individuals should call Pete at 271-8466. 

•The 
ski team now has three spots open for its spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone interested should call Chris Woods at 277-7089. 

•Final 
sign-ups for Bookstore Basketball Tournament will be held Wednesday, Thursday, and next Monday from 4 to 7 p.m. in the S.U.B. office, on second floor LaFortune. This is the last 


chance to sign up. 

•The 
Spring Eight Ball Tournament will be held in the Gorch Game Room in LaFortune on Tuesday, March 3 and Wednesday March 4 at 7 p.m. Anyone interested in signing up can do so now until March 2. The entry fee is $3. 

•Attention 
ND/SMC Salling Club: We will be unloading the boats for our spring season this Sunday at 11:30 a.m. Attendance is mandatory. Anyone interested in joining the is welcome to come and help out. Any questions, call Adrienne Briggs at 284-5085. 


Wednesday, February 26, 1992
The Observer 

Finale 
matchup. Although the team's Overway (8.4ppg, 9.2rpg) is leading rebounder and second also expected to be aggressive leading scorer (14. 7 ppg, 7.8 underneath as the team's rpg) will have to watch from the leading rebounder. However,
continued from page 16 

bench, the game is still difficult both players and Cromer are for Libbing to think about. confident they will disassemble
nine rebounds against 
"Don't expect me to be holding Calvin's big three with their de­
Kalamazoo on Saturday. 

up. In a way, I think I may have fense.
"This is the last game of my 
already had to deal with that. "We played a lot of zone
first season," joked Mulhern. 
But I just don't know." against them the first time. We
"It's going to be real hard be­
Despite her absence on the won't be playing a zone 
cause I've made a lot of real 
court, Libbing is confident in tonight," said Cromer. "Our
good friends. It's been a good 
her teammates ability to take whole game is run, gun and
experience." 

Calvin. Libbing's perspective have fun. As long as we run it,
Although Mulhern and Cook 
from the bench has given her we're all right. It's when we
did not play in the Calvin game, 
opportunities to see the growth slow it down that we get into
both are excited for the 
in her teammates, including the trouble. We're going to see a lot
matchup, not just because of 
underclassmen. of man-to-man." 
the revenge element, but be­
"We're going to be a com­Assistant coach Joanne 
cause it is their last home 
pletely different team than Nester agreed, adding, "We've 
game. 

what they saw at Calvin. They'll gotten better and tighter at the
"It's going to be difficult. It's 
see confidence in everyone one man-to-man and switching to 
your senior year, you played 
of the players." Libbing added, the fast break." 
high school sports and college 
commenting on the transition of As for the emotion of a last
sports and this is the finale," 
leadership on the team, "In the home game, Cromer sees this
Cook remarked. "The game will 
beginning of the year, seniors game as perhaps the most emo­
be emotional because there are 
took control. Now juniors are tional for his seniors. It is in
seniors on both teams." 

making moves to be where they this perspective that he exhibits 
Cook took a year off last sea­
need to be to take charge. It's the most pride in his girls for 
son, but came back to the bas­
really a mature basketball the efforts they have made
ketball team for her senior 
team." throughout their collegiate ca­
year. The five-foot-nine guard 
Although the team is deter­reers.
has come off the bench to score 
mined to win tonight, they must "I think what the seniors will
1.9 ppg and snag 1.7 rebounds 
first shut down Calvin's big have to do is look back at their 
per game. 

three. Kim Bartman (16.9 ppg) years at Saint Mary's and look
"We know that Kelly's going 
manhandled the Belles defense at the good things. A good ed­
to help us and Kate is going to 
the first time, dominating all ucation. And I think the compe­
help us as well," added Cromer. 
scoring with 27 points. tition in basketball makes it
Missing from tonight's lineup 
Teammate LeAnne Bajema easier to deal with the business
will be forward Janet Libbing, 
(10.9 ppg) added 13 points to world outside. It's not easy like
who was forced to sit on the 
her team's winning efforts. Julie it used to be."
sidelines during the Beloit 

F
or retirement to be the time ofyour life, you have to dream a little -about the things you've always wanted to do: travel, explore, start a business. Just imagine... 
W1th a dream and a plan, you can make it 
happen. Your pension and Social Security should provide a good basic retirement income, but what about all those extras that make your dreams possible? You'll probably need some additional savings. 


THE DREAM IS YOUR OWN. WE CAN HELP YOU WITH THE PLAN. 
"' 
~ 
·~ 
.!·~ l 
·~ 
~ 
j 
~ 
s 
"' 
3 
~ 
·f ~ 
"'<:"' 
1 

I 
I
I 
.... 

~ ~ 
j
Ensuring the future 
~ 

for those who shape it:" I 
~ 

Q I 
~===================~ 
can add up quickly. 
What else makes SRAs so special? A broad range of allocation choices, from the safety ofTIAA to the investment accounts of 


. CREF's variable annuity; no sales charges; a variety ofways to receive income, including annuities, payments over a f1xed period, or cash. You may also be able to borrow against your SRA accumulation before you retire.* 
All this, plus the top investment manage­ment that has helped make TIAA-CREF the largest retirement system in the country. 
So start dreaming and planning for the time ofyour life. Because the sooner you start your SRA, the greater your savings and your retire­ment will be. 
Cit.v ln,flilulitm (Full nam~) 
Tit/, TIAA-CREF Pttrlti:ipnlll 
0YrJ0No 

•oepcndirlS' upon your institution's plan and the at.ateyou live in. CREF annuities are distributed by TIAA-CREF 1 d' 'd J& 1 · · 1s · C 
For more complete information indudingch d aJII800842 2733 Ext n lVI ua natltut•ona t:rv•ces, Inc.
• argn an rxpenaes, c -• 5509 for a P.rospectua. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send moncy. 
~------------------~---­
Wednesday, February 26, 1992 The Observer 
Rosenthal promotes O'Brien 
Observer Staff Report 
Joe O'Brien, who has directed the business end of the University of Notre Dame's athletic department since 1976, has been promoted to senior associate athletic director. The announcement was made today by Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal. 
O'Brien first joined the Irish athletic staff in 1976 as business manager and assistant athletic director. He was promoted to associate athletic director in 1983 and now has handled personnel, budgetary, purchasing, travel and other internal affairs for nearly 16 years. 
"This assignment is a tribute to the scope of Joe's involvement in virtually every aspect of our athletic department," says Rosenthal. 
"There isn't an event we host, a trip we plan or a 
Miscues 

continued from page 16 

Joe O'Brien 
major project we undertake in which Joe is not an integral part of its implementation. He has been an invaluable aide to me in the five years I've been at Notre Dame." 
A longtime employee of the University, O'Brien served as director of Notre Dame's per­sonnel department for 21 years prior to joining the athletic staff in '76. He has orchestrated the details of 11 major bowl trips and the same number of NCAA tournament appearances in basketball. He served as tournament director for both the '85 and '88 NCAA first and second-round basketball tournament games held at Notre Dame. 
The Philadlephia, Pa., native was honored with the Edward "Moose" Krause Award Friday night by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago for his dedicated service to the University. He served as president of the College Athletic Business Managers Association in '83 and also was inducted into the First Interstate Bank Athletic Hall of Fame. 
O'Brien previously worked in personnel service for both the Whirlpool Corporation and the O'Brien Corporation in South Bend before moving to Notre Dame in 1955. 
A 1949 Notre Dame gradu­ate, O'Brien and his wife, Betty, are parents of a daughter Susan, a '76 Notre Dame graduate. 

Money
for 

~rea 
Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
(probably because it's easier than getting money from your parents!) 
• 
Only 12% APR fixed rate 

• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit qualify 


No co-signer Is needed. Bring in your student I.D. 
G 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 • Independent of the University 
page 13 

Tark says he's not finished 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Attorneys for Jerry Tarkanian say they'll go to court if the UNLV coach is 
not  allowed  to  rescind  his  
resignation  and  coach  the  
Runnin' Rebels next year.  

Meanwhile, a UNLV professor has joined in the call for a two­year suspension of the basket­ball program, a suggestion first made last week by a Las Vegas newspaper columnist. 
Attorneys for the coach deliv­ered a letter to UNLV president Robert Maxson on Tuesday, declaring Tarkanian's resigna­tion of June 6, 1991 to be null and void. The resignation was to have been effective July 1, 1992, but Tarkanian told sup­porters Sunday night that he 
Dayton 
continued from page 16 
room tonight was a real thrill. I'm very proud of my team tonight." 
Notre Dame started the sec­ond half with a 6-0 run, which resulted in a 40-29 lead with 
19:05 left. However, Dayton re­grouped after a timeout and countered with a 23-12 spurt, which started at 15:42 with a Robertson three-pointer. Chip Hare tied the game at 57 with 4:54left on two free throws. 
Down the stretch, both teams showed a combination of good defense and sloppy play. Duke's layup was the only field goal by either team. 
At 4:18, LaPhonso Ellis put the Irish up 58-57 with one-of­two foul shots, and then stuffed Wes Coffee at the other end to give the Irish a chance to stretch the lead. However, Billy Taylor traveled to give the ball back to Dayton. 
Following a Flyer miss, Bennett was fouled, but missed the front end of a one-and-one at 3:11. Neither team scored over the next minute and a half and Notre Dame had the ball and a one point lead with 1:32 remaining. At this point the Irish, who were wearing last year's uniforms due to a laun-
Felber of the Bnde PG 445 115 9 Radio Flyer PG 13 430 700 930 wayne's world PG 13 500 no 945 

was withdrawing it. 
The five-page letter to Maxson said Tarkanian was "coerced and pressured" into signing the resignation agreement. 
Both Maxson and Don Klasic, legal counsel for the Nevada University System, have said the resignation is legal and binding. Maxson has called Tarkanian's resignation a dead issue. 
Attorneys Chuck Thompson and Alan Jones contend a "civility agreement," which was part of the resignation was vio­lated by UNLV officials. University officials have con­firmed the civility agreement, but say it was violated by Tarkanian, not UNLV. 
dry problem, went into a style of play that was similar to last year's team-the prevent of­fense. 
After 40 seconds had elapsed, Keith Tower missed a 15-foot jumper, which led to Robertson's free throw that tied the game. 
Notre Dame set the early tone off the opening tip. Ellis won the jump, Keith Tower gained control of it and fed it to Billy Taylor, who set up Daimon Sweet for a slam. 
Elmer Bennett's hot hand then helped the Irish open up a 21-8 lead in the first six and a half minutes of the game. 
However, Notre Dame could not hold off Dayton. Despite Bennett's 20 first half points, on 7-of-11 shooting, the Flyers fought their way back into the contest by holding the Irish to only 13 points in the final 13 minutes of the half. 
With the Irish running down the clock, Bennett lost the ball and Flyer guard Derrick Dukes started the fast break. Boyer fouled him on a layup. Dukes hit both free throws to cut the Notre Dame lead to five, 34-29, at the half. 
Despite the loss, MacLeod did not feel the season was over. 
"We'll come back. We have three games at home, but none of them will be easy," MacLeod said. "We are a target and we have to deal with that." 
Leary 
continued from page 16 
March 13. If Leary continues her consistent play, the Irish could be destined for an MCC tournament crown and an au­tomatic bid to the NCAA tour­nament. 
*******************************
# THE THOMAS J. WHITE # 
# CENTER ~ 
# ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT: # PRESENTS ~ 
* * 
* A LECTURE BY * 
* *
* *
* PROFESSOR RANDY BARNETT * : CHICAGO KENT LAW SCHOOL ~ 
* *
*# ON * :
* "THE NINTH AMENDMENT AND THE * : PRESUMPTION OF LIBERTY" : : THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 27 : 
: 12:00 NOON : 
:*~~~~*~**~~*~~~~*¥~~i~**~ 
~---------~--­
page 14 

Wrestlers host Purdue in seniors' home finale 
ByJIMVOGL Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame wrestling team steps onto the Joyce ACC floor against Purdue at 7:30 tonight, it will be the last time for four Irish seniors­--Marcus Gowens, Todd Tomazic, Tom Salvino and Chuck Weaver. 
Irish head coach Fran McCann, who described this year's 17th ranked Boilermaker squad as one of their best he's seen, said, "We've always had great meets. This one should be the same." 
The Irish lost at Purdue last season, 24-11. 
Notre Dame hopes the match will be an emotional send-off, and will build momentum going into the NCAA tournament. But McCann hopes his team can fo­cus on one thing at a time. 
"At the end of the year, it be­comes a mental thing," said McCann. "Whoever is in the best frame of mind should come out on top." 
So the Irish will count on their core of seniors to show maturity and poise. 

Gowens, a four-year starter at 126, clearly established himself as the team leader. With consistent 24-win performances in his first three years and currently holding a 21-4 record, he could become the ninth Irish wrestler to eclipse the tOO­victory plateau. To do so, he would need a win against Purdue and a strong showing in the NCAA tournament. 
Weaver, the heavyweight from Gowens' hometown of Del City, Okla., also hopes to return to his home state for the NCAA championships. Weaver took a bit more time to develop at the college level. But after a me­diocre 34-39 record through his first three seasons, he has come on strong, going 16-5 this year. 
However, Weaver can hardly look past today's match, when he'll face a tough customer in Purdue's heavyweight, a 31­year old Marine Corps master sergeant. 
"He's not that much bigger than Chuck, but he's a physical specimen," explained McCann. "He's experienced and tough. Chuck lost pretty bad to him 
The Observer 

s~~r .a~ v··::JJae-=1 ,y. 1u~vv Wednesday, February 26, 1992 

two years ago, but (Weaver) is a different wrestler now. What you concern yourself with is in­timidation. This time around I think things will be different." 
At 167, Todd Tomazic (11-10) looks to cap off a solid career. His 72 career wins are second only to Gowens, with no other Irish wrestler even close. Tomazic, from Placentia, Calif., is an MBA student taking ad­vantage of his final year of eli­gibility. 
Salvino (190), plagued by in­juries throughout his career, will be trying to make up for lost time. 
Nebraska football players arrested at baseball party 
LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) -Seven Nebraska football players have been cited for assault, trespass­ing and other violations in what police say was a fight with members of the school's base­ball team at a house party. 
The seven are scheduled to 
appear in Lancaster County 
Court over a three-day period 
beginning March 11. City 
Attorney Bill Austin said 
Tuesday no formal charges had 
been filed. 
Police Lt. David Beggs said a 
group including some baseball 
players forced two football 
players to leave a house party Friday night because they wouldn't pay a cover charge for beer. 

The two came back later with other members of the football team and a fight allegedly en­sued, Beggs said. 
Six members of the baseball 
team and one former player 
were Injured, Beggs said. 
Several of them were treated 
and released from Lincoln 
General Hospital. 
Police identified the football 
players as: 
-Brian Havens, 19, cited for 
disturbing the peace and tres­
passing. Havens, a scholarship linebacker, is from Los Alamitos, Calif. 
-Jeffery Hughes, 20, cited for assault and trespassing. Hughes, a walk-on receiver, is from Norfolk. 
-Lance Gray, 21, cited for assault and disturbing the peace. Gray, a walk-on linebacker, is from Oswego, N.Y. 
-Zach Wiegert, 19, cited for 
trespassing and assault. 
Wiegert, a scholarship lineman, 
is from Fremont. 

-Raymond Reifenrath, 23, cited for assault and criminal mischief. Reifenrath, a walk-on lineman, is from Dakota City. 
-Todd Gragnano, 20, cited for trespassing. Gragnano, a scholarship quarterback, is from Fountain Valley, Calif. 
-Terry Connealy, 19, cited 
for trespassing. Connealy, a 
scholarship lineman, is from 
Hyannis. 

Lt. Lee Wagner said he did not know which two players ini­tially visited the party. 
"It was completely out of line to go back," football coach Tom Osborne said. "We've always told them that they have to walk away from these kinds of things, because they never win." 
Osborne said the players 
would be punished but wouldn't 
elaborate on how. 

"This is embarrassing to the program, to the team and to me," he said. "There will be some pretty severe discipline." 
:(.) ~$
J~'-',,1, G~ ...... 
J# ~~~ . 
~ ~\ ,$\Lt,~i~ ~,~~ '-~~ :~;')'


~\$ ~~• ~p I/~~ --~ 
'\ 4 ' )
' '--·· . 


~ ( ~ Come enjoy Mardi Gras like never -~· before--St. Mary's style. On Thursday, February 27th, their own Haggar College Center will be filled with live music, games, and 
prizes including the Grand Prize Drawing for an $150 airline voucher and a portable stereo (wI cd player). So stop by between 7:30 
p.m. and l 0:00p.m. and don't miss out on the best party north of New Orleans.-" 
Wednesday, February 26, 1992 The Observer page 15 
TtEFAASIDE GARY LARSON SPaUtiCER JAY HOSLER 

.\ 
"Good heavens! Pablo got an 'F' in art! ... Well, I'm just going to go down to that school myself and meet this teacher face to face!" 


CALVIH AND HOBBES 



CROSSWORD 
~Edward Julius Collegiate CW84-16 
46 GM inventory
ACROSS 

47 Former Oriental VIP 1 Three golden apples 48 ----legscaught her 49 Business abbrevi­
9 Fire remnants ation 14 Companions 50 Asian temple 15 Climbs a wall 53 High-speed plane 17 Comes before in 54 Salt Lake City 
time resident 18 Open shoe 56 Calmness 19 Mr. Fleming 59 Stingy ones 20 Pin for holding 60 Mr. Scrooge 
meat 61 Horse ---­22 ----et labora 62 Shocks 23 Milkfish 24 Soak flax 25 Spoiled child DOWN 26 Space agency 1 ----Way (Roman 28 Scold highway) 30 Valiant 2 WWII island 31 Revolves 3 Boxing sites 33 Chief 4 Business abbrevi­34 Most shrewd ation 37 Countries 5 Collection of notes 38 Army command 6 Profits 
(2 wds.) 7 Journey 39 Cheat 8 States positively 40 Grassy plain 9 Balance sheet item 41 Brake part 10 Skin mark 42 Dumbbells 11 Chinese dynasty 
Howie Mandel 
Sunday, March 1 Stepan Center at 8 PM 
Tickets Now on Sale ND/SMC ...$10 General Public .. $15 
12 Place of fabulous wealth 13 Large marine fish (2 wds.) 
16 Roof workers 
21 Little 
25 Intelligence 
27 Burmese and Laotians 28 Courtroom command 29 Pismire 30 ----noire 32 Argentine money33 Idle 34 Bone substance 35 Lost continent 36 Car part (2 wds.) 37 Now, in Aberdeen 39 Selects 41 Hang down 43 Judicial inquest 44 Bother 45 Woodland deities 47 Parsonage 50 Golf scores 51 Liability 52 Region 55 The Little Red---­57 Famous Siamese twin 58 Opposite of pos. 

Wednesday 
4 p.m. "Conducting An Effective Mail Campaign," Jeff Rice, Assistant Director. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
8 p.m. Comedy, "Stepping Oul" Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. Admission $. Sponsored by Dance, Music and Theatre Departments, Saint Mary's College. 
LECTURES 
Thursday 
Noon. Lecture, "The Ninth Amendment and the Presumption of Liberty," Prof. Randy Barnett, Chicago Kent Law School. Room 220, Law School Courtroom. Sponsored by The Thomas J. White Center on Law & Government. 
12:15 p.m. "Russian Politics Since the Coup," Leonid Volkov, People's Deputy of the Russian Parliament, advisor to Boris Yelstin, Co-Chairman of the Russian Social Democratic Party. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Cosponsored by Institute For International Peace Studies and the history department 
MENU 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Beef Cannelloni Roast Turkey Cheese Ravioletti 
Deli Bar 
Pasta Nuggets French Fried Clam Strips 
Spaghetti with Meat 
Beef Stew 
Sauce, Meatballs 
The Naked Gun Thursday, February 27 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Fisher King 
Friday, February 28 Saturday, February 29 
8 PM & 10:30 PM 

Shown in Cushing Auditorium 
Admission $2 


STUDENT UNION BOARD 


r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, February 26, 1992 
Dayton slims Irish chances of attaining NCAA bid 
Fly over ND, 60-58 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 

DAYTON-Alex Robertson and the Dayton Flyers (14-13) dealt a serious blow to the NCAA Tournament hopes of the Notre Dame's men's basketball team (11-12) last night at the University of Dayton Arena with a 60-58 win. 
The Flyers were able to overcome quick Irish starts in both halves. Dayton took their first lead with 6.9 seconds left in the game when Derrick Dukes finished a fast break, which was started by Hobertson and Dayton's trapping defense. 
After Hobertson tied the game at 58 with 34.3 seconds left, Notre Dame called timeout to set up their offense, but it also gave Dayton a chance to set up its defense . 
• 
"We came out of the timeout and they threw a trap on us that we weren't expecting," said Elmer Bennett. 
Three Flyers surrounded Bennett at halfcourt, Hobertson stripped the ball and Dukes took it down court for the layup and the lead. 
"We wanted to take the last shot on our home floor so we applied the pressure," Robertson said. "He [Bennett) brought the ball above his head, and I was waiting for him to bring it down, which he did. I slapped it up and got it." 
Notre Dame had a final chance to tie, but could not get a a shot off as Robertson recorded his Dayton record ninth steal of the game when he intercepted a Brooks Boyer pass, which he anticipated all the way. 
"We tried to run a play and get a situation where Elmer could push it up, kick the defense and give Brooks a shot at it," Irish coach John MacLeod said of the play. 
As the buzzer sounded, the Dayton student section stormed the court to celebrate the comeback victory. 
"It was a great defensive effort. Defense won the game for us," Dayton coach Jim O'Brien said. "To walk into our locker-see DAYTON 1 page 13 
Leary assists women's turnaround 


By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
It has been an up and down season for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, but one stabilizing force has been the play of sophomore point guard Kara Leary. 
It took injuries to freshman Audrey Gomez and junior Coquese Washington before Leary was inserted Into the starting lineup, but she has been a regular since her first start against Detroit on January 29. 
With Leary in the lineup, the Irish have won six of nine to improve their record to 10-14 and strengthen their hold on second place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference race. 
Leary won't take credit for the team's improvement, how­ever. Instead, she cites im­proved teamwork as the key to the turnaround. 
"We've just been playing bet­ter together as a team," she said. 
Teamwork begins at the point guard position, however, and Leary has handled the respon­sibility well. In only her second career start she collected ten points and ten assists to lead the Irish to an important con­ference win over Loyola. Against DePaul on February 11 she notched a career high 11 assists and she continued her

.. solid play Monday night in a win over Evansville, scoring eight points and dishing out six assists. One important aspect of Leary's game is the absence of turnovers, which plagued the Irish early in the year. For the year, the Nashua, New Hampshire native has 43 as­sists against only 32 turnovers. "My job is just to give the ball 
1t\~\ 
..,........ 
.o.·.,;;.r 

The Observer/ R. Garr Schwartz Sophomore Kara Leary, shown here against Evansville, has played a key role in Notre Dame's recent success. 
to people in a position to score," she commented. "And I'm not turning the ball over as much any more." 
Despite her outstanding per­formance during the last month, she has played in the shadows of freshman phenom Michelle Marciniak as well as established stars Coquese Washington and Margaret Nowlin. The lack of attention doesn't bother the soft-spoken 
Leary, however, who is just happy to be in the lineup. 
"I wouldn't have gotten this much time if it wasn't for the injuries (to Washington and Gomez)," she said, "but I just like being able to contribute." 
She will be able to contribute a lot more as the Irish round out their season with three tough road games before the MCC tournament begins on 
see LEARY/page 13 
Irish not pretty in loss 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 
DAYTON-Sloppy play in the second half doomed 
the Irish in Notre Dame's 60-58 loss to the 
University of Dayton. 
The Irish took a 34-29 lead into the second half 
thanks in part to senior guard Elmer Bennett's 20 
first half points. Benneit nailed four 3-pointers 
within the first six minutes of the game to push 
Notre Dame out to an early lead. 
The second half was a different story. 
"We missed a lot of good shots and turned the 
ball over," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. 
"They (Dayton) made key shots inside and key 
shol'i outside." 
The Irish were 10-of-23 from the field adding up 
to a disappointing .435 shooting percentage in the 
second half. Senior LaPhonso Ellis led all Notre 
Dame shooters with nine second-half points. Only 
three other players scored for the Irish in the 
second half. Senior Daimon Sweet had seven, se­
nior Keith Tower added six and freshman Billy 
Taylor had two points. 
Dayton, surprisingly enough, had a .423 
percentage from the field, converting 11 of 26 field 
goals, but the Flyers made the shots when they 
had to. Dayton freshman Chip Hare and junior 
Alex Hoberl'ion hit free throws in the waning min­
utes to tie up the game. 
Probably the biggest factor in the loss was the 
turnovers. Notre Dame coughed up the ball 25 
times in the course of the game, 13 of those 
coming in the second half. Dayton only turned the 
ball over 11 times in the entire game. 
"That's a great story to only have 11 turnovers and to cause them to have 25. That was a big factor," said Dayton coach Jim O'Brien. 
Statistically, everything went wrong for the Irish in the second half. In addition to making fewer field goals and fewer free throws in the second ·half, Notre Dame also connected on one three­pointer as compared to see MISCUES/page 13 
SMC hosts Calvin in seniors' finale 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 

Saying goodbye is never easy for anyone. 
Saying goodbye to a basketball career is no different. 
However, there comes a time when players must take their last shot, grab their last rebound, make their last free throw, take their last timeout. The seniors of the Saint Mary's basketball team (9-9) will be doing just that tonight at 7 when they host division rival Calvin College (10-10) in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Tonight's matchup with Calvin will be mixed with emotion and intensity, as well as a dash of revenge. The Belles close their home season with the team that handed them their second loss of the year. The Belles hope to reverse the 72-69 score against Calvin tonight. For this year's seniors, it is a long anticipated matchup. 
"I think I keep ignoring the fact that it will be our last home game. Each year I remember the last game ceremonies feeling so young and thinking, 'I wonder what it feel like to have your last game,'" explained Belles leading scorer Catherine Hestovich, who leads the team in scoring with a 15.1 poinl'i per game average. 
"It's emotional. It's something that means so much to you. I'm going to miss the players and coaches. 
They are one of the first team's we played and I believe they're not even going to recognize us. We didn't even know what our strong points were yet. They are in for a whole new thing." 
Restovich chipped in 12 points and grabbed six in the previous Calvin game. This time, both she and Belles coach Don Cromer expect to see even more from her. 
"Catherine has got to be our leader tonight. She'll have to set the pace," Cromer said. 
Cromer will not just be looking to his lead forward Wednesday night. Starting with Restovich tonight will be se­niors Kelly Cook and Kate Mulhern. Although the two have not started regularly throughout the season, the performance given by the two athletes off the bench has proven key during tight contests. 
"Cook is going to play outstanding defense for us and help us with the rast break," said Cromer. "Katie plays a real strong defensive game. She has a real knack for being in the right place at the right time." 
Mulhern waited until her senior year to play. She did not not start, but has proven an important player off the bench. In her rookie season, Mulhern has contributed 2.7 ppg and 2.5 re­
bounds, including eight points and see FINALE/page 13 


