The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 22 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22,1992 t 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Notre Dame not ranked among top 25 universities 
By DAVID KINNEY News Editor 
Notre Dame was not among 
U.S. News and World Report's top 25 national universities for the third consecutive year but remained among the best of the 179 universities ranked annually by the magazine. 
ND placed in the · first quartile, the best of four groups of national universities, and was 20th among private 
universities,  according  to  
Dennis  Moore,  director  of  
public relations.  

Harvard University was named the best university in the nation for the third consecutive year. Princeton University, Yale University, Stanford University and the California Institute of Technology rounded out the top five. 
Moore attributed the ranking to U.S. News' emphasis on fi­nancial resources. The total education spending per student is determined by a school's total annual spending on instruction, student services, administration and academic support including computers and libraries per full-time student. 
But almost all the universities ranked have medical schools, which account for much of the spending, so "it will be difficult for us to be ranked in the top 25," Moore said. 
Notre Dame placed 18th in 1988 and 23rd in 1989 but has not ranked in the top 25 since. Beginning in 1990, the financial resources category weighted more heavily and the University dropped in the rankings, Moore said. 
U.S. News determines the best national universities on the basis of five attributes: reputa­tion, selectivity, faculty re­sources, financial resources and student satisfaction. 
Financial resources count for 18 percent, student satisfaction for seven percent, and reputa­tion, selectivity and faculty re-
U.S. News & World Report'sRanking of the Top Universities 

sources count for 25 percent each. 
"Their method gives the least 

Student Senate discusses security issues, multicuttural festival and trustee report 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
Student Senate discussed increasing security in parking lots of local bars, the Multicultural Fall Festival, and the Board of Trustees Report on research during last night's meeting. 
Student government will at­tempt to encourage local bars to place security officers in their parking lots on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. The primary concern is the Commons. 
"Everything from assaults, robberies, and shoot-outs have happened to our students in the Commons parking lot," said 
R.G. Starmann, student gov­ernment security commissioner. "We need to make these places safer for students." 
Starmann plans to do re­search and gain the support of both Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's security for the proposal. He will then approach local bars with the proposal. 
Senator Tyler Farmer also reported on the upcoming Mul­ticultural Fall Festival that will take place Oct. 4-9. 
"It is important for us as stu­dent leaders to actually attend, participate in, and support the events going on that week. We've put a lot of effort into the festival this year and we've got some great things planned," said Farmer. 
Special events planned will include an opening multicul­tural mass on Sunday, Oct.4, the African Dance Troop per­formance on Thursday, Oct. 8, and the traditional Taste of Na­tions on Friday, Oct. 9. 
In addition, there will be daily "fireside chats" in the Interna­tional Students Organization lounge (2nd floor LaFortune) in the mornings, "culture on the quad" at noon and "entertainment on the quad" from 4 p.m.-5 p.m. both at Fieldhouse Mall. These events will be sponsored by different campus organizations, said Farmer. 
Student senate will also pre­sent the board of trustees re­port, "Upholding the Mission: Teaching and Research at a National Catholic University," on Oct. 1. It includes nine rec­ommendations based on three common themes: teaching in­centives, academic life in and out of the classroom, and exam­ination of undergraduate aca­demic programs, said Lynn Friedewald, president of Breen­Phillips. 
The senate also finalized the regulations for Freshmen Class Council elections. Applications for the council will be due Fri­day, Sept. 25, and elections will be held Monday, Sept. 28. 
Senate also nominated Ellen Zahren as the new SUB Director of Programming, and passed a resolution to emphasis Hall Fellows at Notre Dame. 
, 
I 
I 
TheObserver/KyleKusek
International sale 
Bridget Nelson and Kristin Pooley (right to left), freshman from Lewis Hall, look to make a possible purchase of the clothes and jewelry from around the world for sale from the International Art Company. 

weight to categories that deal with students," said Moore. 
higher than several of the uni­versities ranked in the top 25 in some categories: 
•Incoming 
freshmen have higher SAT and ACT scores than 10 of the universities; 

•A 
higher percentage of freshmen at ND graduate in the top 10 percent of their class than nine of the schools; 

•Admission 
is more selective than 10 other universities in the top 25; 

•More 
freshmen stay for sophomore year than 18 of the top 25, and more freshmen graduate in less than five years than 20 of the schools; 

•Only 
Harvard, Princeton and Dartmouth universities have better student satisfaction rates than Notre Dame. 


"What that says to me is that we're bringing in at least as talented -if not more talented -students than those ranked ahead of us," said Moore. Fur­thermore, the "students must think they're getting a good 
However, Notre Dame scored education." 


BOG approves of club 
By KATIE CAPUTO protection," according to News Writer Chlebek. Security is investigating the 
Saint Mary's Board of Gover-possibility of selling them nance approved a request by through the bookstore or stu­the Notre Dame En-dent government. Board trepreneurial Club to obtain of-members expressed mixed ficial club status at the College opinions about how many stu­during last night's meeting. dents would be interested in 
Gene Sheikh, president of the . buying the product. club, said the club encourages· • Lisa Campione, representa­students interested in en-tive of the Student Alumni As­trepreneurship to explore dif-sociation, appealed for $200 for ferent aspects of the marketing Founder's Day cups. Campione world. said it was for an important 
With official status at Saint cause because Founder's Day is Mary's, the club would be able a day for recognition of Saint to hold fundraisers through Mary's. The board approved the student activities at the school. funds. "It will help involve Saint • The Student Activities Mary's students in en-Committee (SAC) briefed the trepreneurship," said a board on plans in progress. The sophomore on the board. committee is planning several 
In other business: student-faculty meals and 
• Richard Chlebek, director of discussing a big sister program Saint Mary's Security, discussed within the academic depart­personal electric safety alarms ments. that students can wear on their SAC is also reviewing finals body and activate in case of week policies in an attempt to emergency. "The alarms are a restrict tests and papers on the quality product for personal last two days before finals. 

Campus voter registration drive registers 600 to 700 
By MARA DIVIS News Writer 
Last week's Student govern­ment-sponsored voter regis­tration drive registered be­tween 600 and 700 Notre Dame students, according to Chris Setti, coordinator of student government political activities. 
Setti said the drive, which was set up in the North and South Dining Halls, targeted students who had just turned 18 and had not yet registered to vote and students who had registered in their home states but had not requested absentee ballots. 
"It was a lot bigger turnout than we expected," he said. "A lot of students didn't know how to register back home. We fa­cilitated the process." 
Student Body Vice President Molly O'Neill said because this year is a national election, stu­dents' awareness of voting and the political process has in­creased. 
"This year being a national election helped things go quite well," O'Neill said. "The more people who vote, the more awareness and interest there is." 
Setti said that the national election has made students more likely to make the effort to register. Although students know little about local congres­sional races, the increased pub­licity for the presidential elec­tion has heightened student interest. 
The drive also aided voter awareness in Saint Joseph County and the issues of the Michiana area, O'Neill said. 
"It helps Saint Joe County out on their accord, since we're registering people," she said. "They don't have to come here and register people." 



~--------.... 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Diversity and learning breed tolerance 
Each year, during Hispanic Heritage Month, Hispanics across the United States have the opportunity to celebrate, take pride in and spread the word about the ac­complishments which 

Hispanics have made in Pancho L~zano 
contributing to the history  Day Ed1tor  
of  the  United  States.  
African-Americans  have  trn-d  tire  s-ame  

opportunity to do so during Black History Month, along with all the other numerous ethnic celebrations whose populations make up a large part of America. 
Although the numbers participating have been encouraging, unfortunately not many of these ethnic groups have had the exposure they hoped to gain through these celebrations of cultural awareness. Many reasons can be attributed to this such as the lack of media coverage, funding or ignorance. It is saddening that two days after an event has passed, the media tosses it back into it's cupboard until the next time it thinks it can squeeze a couple dollars out of the American public. Many people across the country look at the Los Angeles riots of this past April and say, 'See, we haven't made any progress. If anything, we've gone backwards.' This may be true in some aspects, such as the lack of the United States government to see what are the real problems in this country. But with the democratic opportunities available to us, we can't blame everything on the government. It is the responsibility of the people of this country to teach each other how deal with one another. 
I believe something positive did come out o the L.A. riots, in that being that many people's eyes were open to what needs to be done to get our country pointed in the right direction, not economically and diplomatically, but in terms o moral equality and openness. Not in the last 25 years has cultural diversity been such an important topic in this country. It is evident on campuses, in film, music, art, and business. 
I have to praise Monk Malloy's administration for finally breaking the trend of cultural stagnation by forming the Task Force on Cultural Diversity. It also greatly encourages me to see signs such as "German foods celebration" or "Irish Folkdancing Tonight" and a good number of people attending these events. U2's touring with bands such as Public Enemy and Disposable Heroes of Hypocrisy is great example of musical diversity. I have been raised in a predominantly white neighborhood, with the majority of my friends being white, and my girlfriend coming form an Irish-German descent. I have great respect for them because I don't think it matters to them that I'm Hispanic. 
They take me for what kind of person I am, and don't judge on the basis of my ethnic origin or complexion. I too have learned to listen to and understand other ideas and respect them for what they are. It is extremely essential that we be open to all, not just for our sake, but for our country's future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Becky Barnes Jennifer Habrych  Production Kim Massman Jordan Maggio Emily Bloss  
Sports Rich Kurz  Systems Harry Zembillas  
Graphics Chris Mullins Ann Marie Conrado Chris Weirup  Accent Mara Divis Sarah Doran Terry Edwards  

The Observer (USPS 599 2'4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
~-----------------------------~ 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
Experts say heroin use is up 
•BOSTON -Heroin use, stagnant for years as users turned to cocaine, is on the rise again as the drug enters the country in greater quantities and hits the streets at lower prices and at more lethal levels than ever, experts say. Heroin selling sites are crowding out crack dealing spots in New York. The influx of cheaper, purer heroin could ensnare a new generation of addicts, experts warn. With a burgeoning supply, dealers aren't mixing the drug with other substances as much. So the purity of heroin sold on the street has risen from about 10 percent to more than 40 percent in many cities in the past few years, making it more addictive -and dangerous. 
Woman accused of killing her children 
•cOUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa-A woman distraught over her pending divorce was found driving along an in­terstate with her children shot in the head in the back seat, authorities said. A state trooper found the dead youngsters, ages 8 and 5, early Saturday when he pulled over Kimberly Martin's car after receiving a complaint that a motorist had driven away from a truck stop without paying for gasoline. Martin had been the subject of a search in Indiana, where she was living with her parents and the children. In court Monday, she was disoriented, asking a judge "Who is Dusty and Brandy?" at the mention of her children's names. "Kim was just driven mentally insane by her husband," said her mother, Janice Nagy of Elkhart, Ind. Martin cried during Monday's brief hearing. The judge told her Dusty and Brandy were her dead children and someone would talk to her about it in jail. 
OF INTEREST 

•New Women, New Church, a new seminar to take place during fall break in Chicago, will hold a brief in­formational meeting tonight at 5 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Applications will be due Thursday, Sept. 24. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 21 
VOLUME IN SHARES 153,907,100 

UNCHANGED 587 

NYSEINDEX 
-0.50 to 231.89 
S&P COMPOSITE 
-0.79 to 422.14 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-6.22 to 3,320.83 
GOLD 

-$3.70 to $347.80 oz 
SILVER 

-$0.04 to $3.807 oz 
Mostly cloudy today with a 30 per cent chance of showers. Much cooler. High in the lower 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L !i!lll Anchorage 59 48 Atlanta 80 62 Bogota 68 42 Boston 64 53 Cairo 90 72 Chicago 80 63 Cleveland 74 54 Dallas 89 72 Detroit 70 56 Indianapolis 77 57 Jerusalem 77 63 London 63 48 Los Angeles 81 64 Madrid 90 61 Minneapolis 77 65 Moscow 57 48 Nashville 85 66 New York 75 56 Paris 68 55 Philadelphia 76 56 Rome 90 63 Seattle 63 48 South Bend 86 68 Tokyo 81 68 Washington, D.C. 75 56 


Schools sue state over financing plan 
•JEFFERSON CITY, Mo.-School districts in Missouri charged Monday that the state system for financing public education is unfair and unconstitutional. Assistant Attorney General Robert Presson responded that recog­nizing, much less fixing, problems with school funding would require value judgments that should be made by the Legislature and not the courts. 1\vo lawsuits filed in Cole County Circuit Court by more than 100 school dis­tricts went to court Monday. One lawsuit by 89 districts wants to throw out the formula through which Missouri sends more than $1 billion a year to its 539 public school districts. A smaller number of districts only want part of the formula -known as the prior-year constraint -to be declared unconstitutional. 
Teenagers plead guilty in slaying 
•MADISON, 
Ind. -1\vo teen-age girls charged in the torture slaying of a 12-year-old girl agreed Monday to plead guilty to murder in return for the prosecutor's promise not to seek the death penalty, according to court papers. Mary Laurine "Laurie" Tackett and Melinda Loveless, both 17, signed plea agreements that were filed in Jefferson Circuit Court. The two are among four girls arrested in the January slaying of Shanda Rene Sharer of Jeffersonville. She had been molested, beaten and burned alive. Investigators believe jealousy was the motive. Under the agreement reached Monday, Tackett and Loveless would plead guilty to charges of murder, arson and criminal confinement resulting in serious bodily injury. 

•First 
Aid Services Team (F.A.S.T.} meeting Thurs­day, Sept. 24, 7 p.m. in 116 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Inter­hall coverage, event sign-ups, and other important info discussed. Uniforms will be available and ID pictures taken. Call Suzanne 288-5196 with any questions. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1776: Nathan Hale was hanged as a spy by the British during the Revolutionary War. 

•In 
1792: The French Republic was proclaimed. 

• 
In 1862: President Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation Pr"oclamation, declaring all slaves in rebel states should be free as of January first, 1863. 

•In 
1949: The Soviet Union exploded its first atomic bomb. 

• 
In 1975: Sara Jane Moore attempted to shoot President Gerald Ford outside a San Francisco hotel, but missed when a civilian bystander grabbed her arm, deflecting the shot. 

• 
In 1980: The Persian Gulf conflict between Iran and Iraq erupted into full-scale war. 


_________________________. 



Tuesday, September 22,1992 The Observer page 3 



European treaty to be revised Chairwoman discusses 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -pean economic, political and tent that the European Com­
new problems facing EC
Rattled by Denmark's rejection defense policies, and a common munity is out of touch with the 
of the European Unity treaty and France's ultra-slim ap­proval, European foreign min­isters pledged Monday to soothe their citizens' fears of a "Big Brother in Brussels." 
But the European Community '(EC) nations will push ahead for ratification of the Maastricht treaty "without reopening the present text" for renegotiations, the ministers said in a communique. 
The treaty would establish a framework for unified Euro-bank and currency by 1999. 
British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd told reporters that EC leaders will hold a summit Oct. 16 in London to discuss the turbulence that hit Europe's financial markets last week, and the "preoccupations" of Europeans that affected the Danish and French votes. 
Hurd said the "preoccupations" cited obliquely in the communique refer to "the worry, the anxiety .. that has developed to some ex-

citizens that it is meant to serve." 
Dutch Foreign Minister Hans van den Broeck calls it "this fear of Big Brother in Brussels," the Community's headquarters city in Belgium. 
The communique also stressed that the governments will remain committed to the European Monetary System. 
All 12 EC nations must adopt the Maastricht treaty by the end of this year for it to go into effect. 
But the problems didn't just
SYSTEMS RECRUITING 
go away, said Daeubler-Gmelin. "The problems that were in the Representatives of the Systems Division of Eli Lilly and Company will be 
background are coming to the foreground. And they're grow­
on campus on the following dates: 
ing," she added. Daeubler-Gmelin said one of
Tuesday, September 22nd Wednesday, September 23rd 
the main problems is the eco­
7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
nomic system. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
"The reform states are changing over to a privately­
Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation that develops, 
owned, competitive market and
manufactures. and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a Fortune 500 company and has maintained record sales and earnings for 31 consecutive 

this is a real problem. It causes a great sacrifice on the people. Men and women are becoming poorer everyday," she said. "Companies are not able to help themselves without the help of Western democracies." 
Daeubler-Gmelin sited na­tionalism as another problem which affects development. 
"Czechoslovakia is separat­ing, hopefully peacefully. In Yugoslavia there is ethic trea­son and a civil war. You can see all the terrible affects it has on the civilian population," ex­plained Daeubler-Gmelin. 
A fmal problem of the reform states in the EC is emigration, said Daeubler-Gmelin . 
"Quite a lot of the skilled people want to go away because they want more security, more of the quality life they believe they deserve," she said. 
She also said the leaders of the EC had to come together to reorganize the reform states. 
"There definitely had to be some strengthening of the economy in the EC. There were changing conditions and addi­tional clauses such as a central bank and common currency," she said. 
A second essential in creating this "new modern Europe" was forming a political union, said Daeubler-Gmelin. 

By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 
The economic system, na­tionalism and emigration are the main problems facing the European Community (EC) to­day, said Dr. Herta Daeubler­Gmelin, Deputy Chairwoman of the German Social Democratic Party and of the SPD Parlia­mentary Group. 
She spoke yesterday at the Hesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies on "Germany's Role After Unification." 
"As an active politician, I must say that even after unifi­cation, the European Commu­nity has some significant problems to overcome," said Daeubler-Gmelin. "When the Iron Curtain fell we all saw families reuniting joyfully after nearly three decades of sepa­ration. It was perhaps the happiest day in the world." 



------------~-­
-

SEPTEMBER 24 $25 

9{1J pt](f££.9lW SOCif£ (jenera( Meeting 7:30 Cushing 5luditorium Wednesday September 23, 1992 ATTENTION: MMIDATORY STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE INTERNATIONAL AND FULL TIME DEGREE-SEEKING GRADUATE STUDENTS October 30, 1992 is the deadline for WAIVING enrollment in the mandatory student health insurance plan. This deadline also applies for department enrollment. For further information contact: UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES 239-7497  NE-W womE-N, NE-W CJJUJ!-CJJ Fall Break Seminar October 19-23, 1992 W~ wok forward to tM fumr~ in faith and hope. working for tM day whet w~ and allTHE SEMINAR: our sist~rs no long~r have to jil a Is a one-credit course: s~rtocyp~. but ar~ frt~ to us~ all our gifts Gender Studies 364 or Theology 364 and to slrar~ in all th~ lunefits ofluuna1l lif~ and wor/c. w~ look forward to tM ag~ Is Graded S/U ofp~act, wMII viol~IIC~ is banish~d. both women and mLII ar~ abl~ to lov~ and to 1M Presents the opportunity to spend one loved and tM work and wealth ojourweek in Chicago, living in community world is iust/v slrartd. and learning with Church women in social ministry Involves creative, experiential learning APPLICATIONS Available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Thurs, Sept. 24, 1992 with $40.00 registration fee For more information: Dr. Jay Brandenberger, Center for Social Concerns, 239-5293 Sr. Regina Coli, Theology, 239-6493 Ava Collins, Gender Studies Program, 239-8635 I pray for a world where we live in partnership rather than domination; where power is no longer equated with the blade, but with the holy chalice: the ancient symbol of the power to give, nurture, enhance life. And I not only pray, but actively work, for the day when it will be so. -Riane Eisler  

page 4 

Students undecided in survey 
By PAUL PEARSON Associate News Editor 
An Observer poll of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents indicates that the 1992 presidential campaign is cur­rently a three-way race be­tween George Bush, Bill Clinton and "Undecided." 
The poll, conducted Sept. 16­21, shows that 38 percent of students questioned plan to vote for the governor of Arkansas. 37 percent will vote for President Bush. and 25 percent are undecided or will vote for other candidates. One student questioned intends to vote for Texas billionaire Ross Perot. 
The poll also says that, while 63 percent of the students be­lieve Clinton's pro-choice stance on abortion will affect their decision, only 24 percent said that Clinton's efforts to avoid the draft will affect the decision. 
The survey is the result of a random telephone poll of 300 Notre Dame students and 100 Saint Mary's students. The margin of error for the poll is 5 percent. 
According to the poll, Clinton would clearly win a debate on environmental issues-65 per­cent said he would be stronger on the environment than Bush. Twenty percent picked Bush, while 15 percent were unde­cided. 
However, the same poll shows that Bush will win the "family values" issue. Fifty-six percent of the students said Bush has a stronger character than Clinton. Thirty percent chose Clinton, with 14 percent undecided. 

-----------~ 
The Observer 
Tuesday, September 22,1992 

Which candidate is stronger on the economy? 
following are the Is Clinton's draft status importantof 300 ND students (133 male, 167 female) and 100 Saint 

Bush I I 35% to your decision? Mary's students conducted Sept. 16-21. One 
Yes I 124% hundred nineteen of the students polled are Democrats, No f:;:;::;;;;':';:;:;~:::: ,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, :;:,:;:;:;:;:::,:; t':'l 76% 
Clinton [r~rrt? ,.,,,,, }t==~=~ttl 44% 
161 are Republicans and 120 are independent. The 

Undecided f!W«M@ 21% margin of error is 5 percent. 
Does Clinton's pro-choice stance 
Which candidate will be tougher on crime? 
affect your decision?
Who do you plan to vote for? 

Bush I J46% 
Yes. 163%
Bush I I 37% Clinton Wlll1 20% 

No f':'::;:;:;'{;:;':'''''''' ::tt:l37%
Clinton f't:~t:, '/::;:::=::::::!'~:~:~:::!'~:d 38% Undecided fi*>#W@@l 34% Undecided/Other Ut\N.lM@ 25% 
Did you go to Clinton's speech 
Which candidate is stronger on the environment? last Friday? How do you feel about Clinton's Bush L:::J 20% Yes I 143% proposed college loan/national service plan? Clinton l=~'t'' ,,,,.,,,., '''''''''''' '''''''''''''''''''''''' =~tt:tt~J 65% No 1::: =:::t:::::':::~:::::~:::!':::::::::::::t:::::;;;;::tt:=:?:l57% .9 
Ul 

Undecided fiji@ 15% ~ Did Clinton's speech affect your ~ decision about who to vote for? a>
Which character has a stronger character? 
~sc::J17% ~ 

B~h I I~% Ul No •~~~~= ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,;r,:::;;;t~=~=~=~ r~~~~n 8o% <3
Clinton l }{))):=::::}:ttJ 30% Undecided t] 3% f=_Ql 
PURCHASE TICKETS NOW AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
CLASS OF 93 PRESENTS 
THE 
CHECKING ACCOUNT 







SENIOR 
• NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES • FREE FIRST ORDER OF When you write 8 checks or less CHECKS Standard design 
.NOMINIMUMBALANCE •PAYSINTERESf AT 

CLASS
COMPETITIVE RATES 
• FREE INSf ANT CASH ATMACCESS 


CRUISE
Come to expect the best. 


THURSDAY 
tiORWE5T BANKS 
Includes EVERYTHING

South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
BUS LEAVES ND MAIN CIRCLE 4:25P.M. & RETURNS AT I:OO A.M.
Norwest Bank. Indiana, N.A. 

PURCHASE TICKETS NOW AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK
© 1991 Norwest Bank. Indiana Member FDIC 
The Observer page 5 
Conclusion: POWs left in Laos Chicago sets new policy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two of Richard Nixon's Pentagon chiefs told a congressional panel Monday that the government believed American airmen were left alive in Laos and not returned at the end of the Vietnam War. 
Separate testimony by Melvin 
R. Laird and James R. Schlesinger, both of whom served as President Nixon's secretary of defense two decades ago, supported conclu­sions by leaders of the Senate investigating committee th.at not all Americans came home at the war's end. 
"I think it's quite extraordi­nary when two former secre-
Over 100 Master Artists ... 
Bienlldt Klee Rem brand! Bosch Lau1rec Remington Brueghcl Magrittc Renoir Chagall MaLisse Rowscau Dali Miro Seurat Degas Monel U1rillo Escher O'Keefe Van Gogh 

taries of defense both give evi­dence documenting that they had information, or they be­lieved personally, that people were alive and not accounted for in Operation Homecoming," Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., chairman of the Select Committee on POW-MIA Affairs, said. 
"They have acknowledged publicly that there was evi­dence people did not come back who should have, that they were held prisoner to the best of our knowledge," Kerry said. 
The panel also released in­ternal White House and Pen­tagon documents supporting the suggestion that some in the government believed Americans had been left behind. 
Laird and Schlesinger ap­peared as the panel began the first ever under-oath, public questioning of the highest­ranking officials of the Nixon administration about their ef­forts to win release of American POWs as they negotiated an end to the long, bitter war in Southeast Asia. 
Henry A. Kissinger, Nixon's national security adviser and secretary of state who con­ducted the negotiations with the North Vietnamese, was scheduled to undergo question­ing Tuesday. 
TODAY thru FRIDAY, Sept. 25 9am-5pm 
Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $171 


for priest child abusers 
CHICAGO (AP) -With allegations of clergy sexual abuse rising, the nation's second-largest archdiocese on Monday announced a toll-free hotline and an independent board to investigate priests accused of molesting children. 
The policy established by the Archdiocese of Chicago may be the most comprehensive policy ever developed by any of the 188 U.S. Catholic dioceses, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin said at a news-conference. 
The policy goes beyond legal requirements and exceeds rec­ommendations made in June by a panel that analyzed 59 cases of abuse reported in the archdiocese since 1963. Bernardin said. 
"I share the anguish of all those affected by this tragedy: the victims, their families, their communities and priests," said Bernardin, the leader of 2. 3 million Roman Catholics in northeastern Illinois. "While I cannot change the past, I can do something about the future." 
Under the policy, a toll-free hotline will be established to handle complaints, and all allegations will be reported to the state agency that handles child-abuse cases, Bernardin said. 
That agency, the Illinois De­partment of Children and Family Services (DCFS), notifies prosecutors when appropriate, he said. 
A nine-member board made up of six lay people, including a former abuse victim who is now an attorney, and three priests will review all com­plaints and determine accused priests' fitness to serve, Bernardin said. 
The board-which also in­cludes a child psychologist, a psychiatric expert in sexual dysfunction, and parents ­was chosen by the archdiocese but will report only to Bernardin. 
"I accept the clinical data which suggest that once it has been demonstrated that a priest is an abuser, he should never again return to parish ministry or any ministry which might place a child at risk,:' the cardinal said. 
De-icing plan will delay planes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The federal government's plan for keeping airliner wings free of ice and snow has a price-more delays for wintertime passen­gers-but it may save lives. 
The Federal Aviation Admin­istration (FAA) says 16 acci­dents over the last decade re­lated to the failure to de-ice the aircraft properly before takeoff, killing more than 100 people. 
The agency is expected to an­nounce its new de-icing plan in the next few weeks. Airlines then would have to submit their own de-icing proposals for ap­proval and to implement them by Nov. 1, in time for winter flying. 
Airline industry sources said the FAA plan is expected to lead to more intensive training for flight officers and de-icing ground crews, changes in the type of de-icing fluid used, and construction of secondary de-ic­ing facilities at the end of run­ways at some airports. 
"We are going to be doing some things differently and you may see some additional de­lays," said David Hasse, air safety chairman of the Airline Pilots Association. "Passengers should understand that this is a necessary part of the safety process." 
Teams are being established at 30 major airports to deter­mine the best way to clear ice from planes, he said. 
The FAA was roused into ac­tion by the crash of a USAir flight on an icy runway at New York's LaGuardia Airport last March that killed 27 people. The agency is examining whether a buildup of ice on the wings of the Dutch-made Fokker 28 aircraft caused them to lose their aerodynamic lift. 
The FAA says that in two of the 16 accidents determined to be related to ice buildup -the crashes of an Air Florida Boe­

ing 737 in Washington in 1982 and of a Continental Airlines DC-9 at Denver in 1987 -in­




NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
vestigators found that ice for­
mation after de-icing was a ma­
jor contributing factor. 


SOPHOMORES 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 

'1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI

Tickets are now on sale for the 
PLUS $1000 FORTilE 
MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
No obligation. No cost. You also get aFREE



CLASS CRUISE ON 
HEADPHONE RADIO just fur calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65


LAKE MICHIGAN 
MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 
Thursday, September 24th 
SAT 8:00-3:00 
2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 

Buses leave from the CCE at 6 p.m. and will return by 1 a.m. 
272~6722 
Serving tlit '}.(ptre 'Dame


Tickets are available at the LaFortune Info Desk for $20 
community for over 30 years 
--~~ 

-------------------~--------------------------­
r------------­
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, September 22, 1992 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Artists' prints 

Phillip Eddy, an off-campus junior, examines a selection of Ansel Adams prints at the poster sale LaFortune. 



Americans lose first balloon race 
ROTTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) -Long after two other balloons had safely finished the first trans-Atlantic race and two others were ditched in the sea, an American team stayed aloft but off-course Monday, appar­ently headed for Morocco. 
Troy Bradley and Richard Abruzzo would be the first bal­loonists to make a North America to Africa crossing. 
The field of five nine-story balloons left Bangor, Maine, on Wednesday. 
A Belgian team won, drop­ping into a Spanish village Monday morning. A British team landed later in the day on a sandy beach in Portugal. The Dutch and German teams were unable to finish the race. 
The Americans were aiming to break the 137-hour en­durance record set by Abruzzo's late father, Ben, who in 197 8 piloted the first balloon across the Atlantic. 

Wed. Sept. 23 Thurs. Sept. Fri. Sept. 25 
at 9:00 p.m. 


Bush: Change Third World aid 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­President Bush offered U.S. support Monday to strengthen international peacekeeping and urged overhauling foreign aid programs to get away from Third World handouts. 
"We propose to alter funda­mentally the focus of U.S. assis­tance programs to building strong, independent economies that can become contributors to a healthy, growing global econ­omy," Bush said in a speech to the U.N. General Assembly. 
He did not offer to commit 
U.S. troops to the widening peacekeeping operations of the United Nations in the post-Cold War era. Nor did the president directly commit fresh U.S. funds. 
But he enthusiastically en­


dorsed the call by U.N. Secre-F==..:;:.....______________~-­
"From Cyprus and Lebanon to partisan effort if he wins re­Cambodia and Croatia," Bush election. A prominent Senate said, "the blue beret has Democrat, Patrick Leahy of become a symbol of hope amid Vermont, has proposed recon­all that hostility." sidering the $14 billion U.S. 
Bush also backed an indefi-program next year and several 
nite extension of an interna-senior House Democrats have tiona! agreement designed to called for major changes in the block the spread of nuclear past. 
weapons. Since World War II, Bush 
At home, he proposed trans­said, foreign aid has served as a ferring funds from U.S. foreign Cold War weapon -and he aid programs to create a $1 bil­said it still serves security in­lion fund to support Americart terests. businessmen in providing ex­pertise, goods and services in "But foreign aid, as we've countries converting to free-known it, needs to be trans­market economies. formed," he said. "The notion of 
Some 40,000 U.S. jobs would the handout to less-developed be created under the program, countries needs to give way to the White House estimated. cooperation in mutually 
Bush's call for revamping productive economic relation-foreign aid could lead to a bi-ships." 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure thai you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,thal we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 & lronwood/2n-7744 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 

*All Turkev Based 
Their balloon was floating about 100 miles from Morocco and was expected to reach the coastline around midnight, said 
U.S. reserve pilot David Melton at the race control center in Rotterdam airport. 
Although the power generator had failed, Melton said the balloon was within radio range of MoPocco and could commu­nicate via the region's air traffic control relay. 
He said the Americans will try to touch down in Algeria after dawn on Tuesday. To break the record, they must stay in the air until 5 a.m. (11 p.m. EDT). 
"It means one heck of a lot to Richard to make sure the record gets passed on from fa­ther to son," Melton said. 
The Belgian team of Wim Verstraeten and Bertrand Pic­card had hoped to set a new endurance record by continuing on to Italy, but decided to make a quick landing because of poor weather forecasts. Their flying time was 114 hours and 27 minutes. 



PROCTER & GAMBLE 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DIVISION 
Invites interested students to learn more about career and internship opportunities available at Procter & Gamble! 
PRESENTATION AND PIZZA 
Thursday, September 24 at 7:00PM LaFortune Student Center -Foster Room 
For Students Majoring in: Engineering, MIS, Applied Math, CAPP, MBA 
(Visit P&G at Industry Day, as well!) 
------------------~----­
•• J  ~ \.  ·' •f ,, t ~ f  (. ,  \ 1.. , •• - ' '  (! <':~c::;'i  
Tuesday, September 22,1992  The Observer  page 7  
I ELECTION .  '92  >f~~ .lf-~)71~· 

G--=--r-o_u_p_r_a---=-1=-=-lie-s---=-h-o_m_o_s_e_x_u_a--=-1-v-o-te-~a-u-ay~le~
.. ····-at-t,-m...,....::;lp~'ts~,:,,,,,tao:·make·· 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A non­partisan coalition of leading gay and lesbian groups announced efforts Tuesday to get homo­sexual voters to the polls in November. 
The effort "is our response to the attempts by the fundamen­talist fascists and immoral mi­nority to make us the Willie Horton of this election," said Tim McCarthy, coordinator of the "Come Out Voting Coali­tion." 
The organization will air a television ad, distribute posters and promote voter registration among homosexuals. McCarthy said the coalition is composed of many leading gay and lesbian groups in the United States including Queer Nation, ACT-UP and the Human Rights Campaign Fund. 
McCarthy said the campaign does not support any particular candidate. "We think people have a sense of who they should vote for." 
Tim McFeeley, executive di­rector of the Human Rights Campaign Fund and the Tri­angle Institute, which is spon-soring the ad, said homosexuals could have a decisive influence on the election. 
I  ?L.11:!!P...'JQ ~' (219) 271-2001 ~ 9t{9f.~~,~~-9 ~ f Swufay 10-6 t 1627 'Edison ']Watf • Soutfr. 'Beni, f'J{ 46637 ~cross tfr.e strut from Line6ac~r-adjacent to Jamison fnn •$5.00 coupon-'Uiitfr. $15.00 minimum purcfr.ase • 'Britton 1(nowks · OWner  

The 30-second ad, titled "Come Out Voting" will be aired as a public service an­nouncement and as a paid television commercial across the country. It will begin airing Sept. 22 in Columbus, Ohio. McCarthy said the ad is set to run on 72 gay-oriented cable outlets and he expects the ad to be picked up by a minimum of 50 other stations as a public service announcement. 
McFeeley said he hopes to run the ad in other major media markets, including New York, Boston, Atlanta and Washington, D.C. He said he plans to target Midwestern and Southern states but has no specific buys in mind. 
The ad, the posters and air time in Columbus were paid for by a private $35,000 contribu­tion. McFeeley said fund-raising efforts were under way to buy more airtime in key markets. 

SENIOR 





!CLUB 
Thursday 

Alumni--Senior Club 
presents 


DISSFUNKTION 
The Place To Be For The Class Of '93 
9~2 
must be 21 

If you want to put your technical skills to use and you have an interest in. .. 
Information Systems or Telecommunications 
Come talk to us at the... 

~ Dinner on Tuesday, September 22 ~& Fair on Wednesday, September 23 

TheTravelersj 
"On The Leading Edge of Technology in the Financial Services Industry." 
\{peace ""''~~ :'irigle mothers 
· ·.•·•·· > · •QJ1a.yll!l. ~You ll').ay .nortealizeit 
BOWLING GREEN, ~y. (Afl y~t. but you've helped start an Vice Presld~ht Dan Quayle i:ll').portllrit discussion Qn ways ~ought to ~ssur~ Murphy \t() strengthen our tr~ditiolta1 Brow:Il~s baby and vot6r~ ~t valuea.m· large Monda;)' qtat }le hasJipth~ .· Quayle a.ssur.:~d the nonexis­ing against s~ngle ll').o:Dl$. B'IH tent newborn of ''the resped he called anew for HollyW:ood apd personal understanding l to ~·~J~:rt teJletti9g 'basic. l).ave for single mothers~" . values.~;··· ····•.•·•·•· · ..·...,L }t• ·· Quayle made plans to wa.tch 
Quayle arranged :tp jOin a the show at the Washington grouj}pf ~~.nttle mqt~etsJn .aparbXl,ent of Zora llrown~ a Washington on Monday :tUgj# to family 'friend and ad-vocate·.for · watch ~lle season preln~el' of hreast cancer patients who "Murppy J3ro\!h;~ dt~sh«:Jwhe secocnded QQayle's nominatiocn chastised last May \for ~last month's Republican con­"moeking the iniportance offa-vention fu Houston. 
the;;·~~e the grea~~·;~~~~t ~f1: ~:::=!e::~ :!!v:::! for ~ingle mpt,her~?'I'JleYW~ lit Lexi#gton,Ky•• Qtlayle de· working hard~ oft~n agatnst pi<:ted Demochttie presidential great· ri(lds,'t Q\layle ·said l*· a nominee Bill Clinton as a tool of mop at a~~rl:ll.a.tk~t)l~t~{li .·· ~e Hollywood es~ablislllnent. ···.·.·· QuaylW~ .P~ace~&ktng gi:J$· . Quayle quot~d cliriton, at a :fure tt) Mvrphy Brown's b@y $1 milli()n fund-raiser in Holly­""-a S{~ff~d eJ~phanf ~ij4 ~ woodJast Wednesday, as say· handwritten J:l.ote ... got less ing, "lwant Hollywood to write a.ttenti{})Jthan.he hope~..· '' the future of America." It 
.· The gift was not opened nor prompted boos from a crowd of 
his note read on CBSJTV's 500 at the Bowling Green air­
''This Morni~g•• sb()"\·W4i~h Po~. 
featur~d interviews with star Later, Quayle aides said Ciin­Candice Bergen and other cast ton's aetual remark was, ''l members on.the setof.Murpby wantyouto write.a new future Brown. ,,; for the United States of Amer~ 
"Dear Baby Brown, I want to jta; I want you to be part Of the be one of the flrst to welcome a,d:ll').inistration, not just part 0f you int~the world}Hwrote the campaign... . 
HeavenlyDinner Deal 

Every Sunday to Wednesday Spaghetti 6 Tomato Sauce 

$2.99 
per person 
If thou has not tasted our delicious Italian offerings, here's a temptation: our very own Spaghetti and Classic Tomato Sauce Dinner. This sinful portion includes homemade Minestrone soup or crisp salad and devilishly hot loaves of San Francisco sourdough bread. An enlightening offer good Sundays thru Wednesdays until October 28, 1992. 
•
Spaghetti Warehouse 
• Cirl'at Italian Food. All Amt'rtt.ln fun. • 
501 North Niles • In The Works Hotel • 232-4414 
Good Sunday thrOUJh W...tMOd.ly, until Oct<>Mr ~8. 199'. dlnn~r only. Not JOOd with orher diKOUnts. coupons or sp«l•ls. 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday,Sept22, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 
News Editor .....•••••••••••.....•David Kinney Viewpoint Editor ...•.............. Joe Moody Sports Editor ........••..• Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor 
Business Manager Richard Riley 

Advertising Manager •••.....Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth OTS Director ........•••.......... Dan Shinnick Controller ..............••••••••.. David Beliveau 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Riots were only tip of iceberg 
Several months ago I had the misfortune to be at the wrong place during the historic ren­dering of the Rodney King ver­dict. Caught in the midst of the Los Angeles riots, I viewed, first hand, the carnage. I recognized that the unleashed fury was less a reaction to injustice than an explosion of pent-up youthful rage. The vast number of looters participating in the mayhem included over­whelming numbers of seem­ingly angry kids who felt that they had nothing to lose. Several shared the sentiment that they took the property of others, not so much for the ma­terial gain; but rather for the momentary "high." By getting the attention of the world, they were announcing that they ex­ist, had merit, and must be dealt with. Many were just children, who lived on the fringes of poverty and society: too young and inexperienced to get legal work, and from homes with only one parent to contend with the escalating rent, mortgage, food and education costs. The kids that I dealt with were of school age but not nec­essarily attending. They were without the positive self image that comes with accomplish­ment and the recognition of such, from the adult world. They sensed a general worth­lessness for life. Many had time and again witnessed baby brothers and sisters aborted before they came to be; while older siblings and friends were taken by bullets, drugs, or prison. Hearing the stories, I sadly remembered a time when children had value in and of themselves; but, not these children. For those with whom I interacted, the message of 
DOONESBURY 
Benyumin Tailor Guest Columnist 

hope was a contradiction to the reality of their environment. Gradually, I became less afraid of the rioters than of the underlying causes of their dis­content. While we as a nation have no doubt accomplished many significant political goals worldwide, we are, in the meantime, oblivious to the needs of a significant part of our growing population. These children care not about the lofty goals of a cleaner environment nor the liberation of former Soviet republics; simply "makin'-it" on a daily basis is enough of an accomplishment. The thought of prison may cause the established middle­class to think twice before going outside· of the Law to improve their lot in life. However, to these children, they already live in a prison which offers little chance for escape. As a result, kids in poverty are unwilling to put forth repeated honest efforts, only to have their nose rubbed again and again in the dirt of failure. Their spirit is being sapped away. The thought of death does not frighten these children, because it is a common occurrence. To them there is no difference; whether succumbing to the effects of a shared needle, or to a bullet used to settle a score, or to hunger, or to hypothermia. Education, once the key to escape poverty, appears to be floundering in direction, no longer meeting the needs of those it is supposed to serve. It has become an institutional business without public ac­countability. 
The school system fails to teach, it intimidates without providing a realistic assessment of ability; and may actually be contributing to the existence and perpetuation of the growing subculture of poverty. Sadly, it is becoming plainly evident that being young and innocent carries no guarantee of protection. Even those whom we are taught to trust deceive us by taking advantage of our naivete. Clergy, child care workers and physicians are being indicted for sex crimes against the most helpless members of our society. And even if some are eventually proved innocent, the message is still clear: a number of those whom we trust are guilty. We must demand that all adults be role models for the children, for our leaders choose no to be. Being caught up within the effects of the Rodney King ver­dict enlightened me. I found that it represented only a small tip of the iceberg of social injus­tice. Many may not feel its im­pact immediately, but they will eventually! The fastest growing group of those living within poverty are children. Not doing anything about this American Tragedy is true obscenity. I sense a growing moral void and a companion public apathy towards the fate of young people, I wish to plead for someone to champion our cause. Will the seriousness of young peoples' problems be recognized, or will our youthful appearance continue to distract adults? Must we forever be forced to use violence in order to prompt public attention? 
Benyumin Tailor is currently a resident of Wheeling, fL. 
Student Government wants undergrads to'control education' 
Dear Editor: 
On Thursday, Oct. 1, Student Government will present a re­port to the Board of Trustees entitled, "Upholding the Mis­sion: Teaching and Research at a National Catholic University." 
A follow-up on last spring's report entitled, "Back to Ba­sics," the report was written by the Standing Committee for Undergraduate Education, chaired by Lynn Friedewald. 
Presented at a time when the University is reevaluating its mission, the report is intended to convey to the Board the ur­gency of maintaining a high standard of undergraduate ed­ucation while developing re­search and graduate studies. 
By examining previous re­ports submitted by both faculty and students, as well as Uni­versity self-studies COUP and PACE, the committee has iden­tified three common themes: the need for structured teach­ing incentives; the need for im­provement of academic life both in and out of the classroom; and the need for a serious examination of the under­graduate academic program, including but not limited to class size and class availability. 
Specific recommendations in­clude the creation of a Center for Teaching, the establishment of a college fellow program similar to that in the college of Arts and Letters in other colleges, and finding immediate interim solutions to correct the problems caused by faculty shortages. 
1\vo other areas of emphasis are the need for increased sup­port for the hall fellows pro­grams and the improvement of departmental advising. 
Recommendations in these 
areas charge each student, as 
well as the faculty and adminis­
trators, with the task of improv­
ing participation in these areas. 
To make the recommendations 
effective -in essence to demon­
strate our serious commitment 
to maintaining a high standard 
of undergraduate education ­
we as students have to do our 
part. 
By making these recommen­
dations to the Board, we call 
upon the University to provide 
the intimate academic experi­
ence we expected when we 
gave up scholarships to other 
universities and came to Notre 
Dame for what we believe to be 
the best undergraduate educa­
tion available. 
Students should support 
efforts to make Hall Fellows 
Programs a means of improving 
academic life in the dorm as 
well as improving student­
faculty interaction. 
If you have any questions or 
concerns about undergraduate 
education, please send written 
comments to Student Govern­
ment, c/o Standing Committee 
on Undergraduate Education, 
203 LaFortune Student Center, 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Please support our requests 
to the Board of Trustees by tak­
ing control of your undergrad­.uate education. 
Gregory P. Butrus Student Body President Molly A. O'Neill Student Body Vice-President Lynn M. Friedewald Chair, Standing Committee on Undergraduate Education Sept. 20, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
AIA/1?16HT/

fiOY, THATWA5 
PAMN... HAV£3 Y(}{j
A PICTURE-' 

I?ANNY 2
A LONG PAGt.., 
IT'S A P/CKE/) 7HE3 
'I hear America snoring.' 
0 ---~ 
GRAPH... l?OOK ArnJ<T
0 f 
0 

0 
YE3T?~

"" Lara Sweedo 
Bzzzzzzzzzz... Submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 




Accent 
Tuesday, September 22, 1992 page 9 
Information Resource Center's 'Gopher' system gives students access to the world 
By JOE MONAHAN navigating through the typically only other Macs could Accent Writer increasing number various recieve it." said Cooper. 
networks and services that are Since its inception a year and 
available, Cooper said. a half ago, Gopher has been 
Imagine sitting at a computer "The number of networks and picked up by over 100 servers, and being able access a library services available is increasing primarily universities, and in Munich to see if it has your at an astonishing rate, and the more are logging on. Gopher's favorite book, or calling up more there are the harder it growth has been incredible, and weather information for the becomes to find your way to should continue to be so, Yukon, or reading Bush's last what you want," Cooper said. Cooper said. speech-verbatim-to see what "But Gopher does that for you, Although only a text-based his positions really are. so you don't have to worry." system now, graphics-capable 
These services and more are Gopher is extremely easy to versions are currently being just a small fraction of the use, he said. Depending on the developed which would enable information available on computer system, the a user to view anything from Gopher, a network which spans presentation and speed of famous works of art to the globe and makes gopher may differ, but the photographs of famous people. information retrieval as simple format is basically the same. It The main limitation of the as clicking a mouse. is based on a hierarchical graphics is not the software but 
Gopher is a distributed system of menus which are very rather the computer system. document delivery system easy to understand, and once in While NeXT and Macintosh which allows a user to access a Gopher, the user don't need to systems would have no problem multitude of information worry about the various handling it, other systems quickly and easily. In other passwords and log-in/-off might, Cooper said. words, it allows you to sit at a procedures for various But what can you do with it? computer and retrieve almost systems-Gopher takes care of "The possibilities are endless. anything quite easily. it all. The system is only limited by 
Gopher, developed about a Gopher is currently installed what people do or don't put on year and a half ago at the or can be accessed from all the it. "said Cooper. "Information University of Minnesota (hence university's computers which can be divided into two general the name) was brought to Notre are connected to the network. 'domains' on Gopher: Notre Dame this summer by Joel Even if a computer is not Dame Information and Cooper, Assistant Director of connected directly to the everything else," he said. Networking Services at the network, if it has a modem a "Notre Dame Information Office of University Computing. user can still dial in and be resides here and is posted by Gopher was adapted and connected with Gopher. individuals or groups across specialized for Notre Dame over It allows several different campus. Other information is the summer, and is currently types of computer systems to made available from locations installed on the University's access the same kind of somewhere 'off computer network. Cooper is information. This removes campus'-anywhere from down ready to unveil the system to system-to-system barriers the Toll Road to the other side the Notre Dame community and which made this kind of of the world." hopes that both students and information exchange difficult The Notre Dame Information faculty will use it. in the past. section contains information on 
The purpose of gopher is to "If I had a Mac and put up a variety of subjects including provide a "roadmap" for information onto a network, computing information, library information, events, schedules, press releases, DuLac, the Faculty Handbook, and an increasing number of things specific to the Notre Dame community. 

The information that is available "off campus" includes getting world-wide access to other libraries, electronic phone books from other campuses, electronic magazines and texts (including the complete works of William Shakespeare, the King James Bible, and historic documents such as the Bill of Rights, the Gettysburg Address, and Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech, other Gopher servers (mostly universities like Notre Dame), news services such as UPI newswire and USENET access, weather information from the 50 states and Canada, and earthquake reports. 
"Two things I like about Gopher are that it's growing fast, which means more and more services will soon be available, and it's not wasting any trees, because updating information is no problem." Cooper said. "Gopher is a renewable resource. And it's all public information, Gopher just organizes it differently." 
For more information on how you can use Gopher, contact the Information Resource Center on the first floor of the computer­math building. 
Vega's "99.9 F" reveals poetic influence 
BY ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
Suzanne Vega 

99.9 F 

Mention Suzanne Vega in a crowded room and you're likely to hear "Luka" from all sides. 
(out of five) 

*** An occasional "Tom's Diner" might slip in, after a remix by DNA of the Vega song brought 
and questioning areit into the popular 
predominant in Vega's lyrical consciousness. 
view of the world. 
But though Vega has been 
And as her outlook is unsure,
producing solid pop music 
so is the listener's reaction to it. 
since her 1985 debut album, When one first heard "Luka,"
few people recognize her the reaction was either a 
stature and the magnitude of chuckle or reflection-usuallyher influence on young female both.
singers, from Lois Maffeo to Tori Amos. Her albums, The listener's initial feelings
including the commercially 
successful Solitude Standing similarly peculiar. The album'sand 1990's Days of Open Hand, 
first single, "Blood Makeshave consistently been 
Noise," is a frightening littleinnovative and provocative. 
pop dollop. With clanging
Vega's new album, 99.9 F0 , percussion and a strong bassexplores some new lyrical and line rocking the song forward, 
musical territory, while Vega sings of her inability to The song, an examination of sung of in the past. changes of Vega's style fail. allowing the singer-songwriter communicate. The electronic learning the intricacies of adult But though the lyrics to the Particularly, keyboards on "(If to remain true to her poetic life, is told in a child's song are almost comforting, an You Were) In My Movie," "As a
package wrapped around the 
roots, which spread over a song, including its thoroughly language, communicating a annoying organ riff brings back Child," and "Bad Wisdom" dull sizable chunk of thematical post-modern video, is message of growth and memories of lnspiral Carpets. these lyrical gems. soil. responsibility. Pop musical inadequacies this 
something different for Vega,
Vega spends a considerable one pepper 99.9 F0, making it a But Vega's talent as a
but is an artistic success 
amount of tape musing on the "Pick up a stick, dig up a pock-marked pop success. songwriter shines through on
nonetheless.
album's title. "Ninety-nine crack, dirt in the street, While Vega's lyrics are 99.9 F0 Vega, who has long
•

But though that first taste of
point nine Fahrenheit degrees 99.9 Pis unusual, Vega's voice becomes a town/ All of the meaningful throughout, her been an influential force on stable now, with rising ties the album closely to her people depend on you not to musical backing is not so female lyricists, will continue to possibilities/ It could be hurt them or bang the stick sturdy. occupy that throne. But in the
earlier work. As she has done
normal, but it isn't quite/ Could down," sings Vega, relating the The electronic sound of future, she must keep the
so successfully in the past, Vega 
make you want to stay awake takes the persona of a child in kind of common experience "Blood Makes Noise" is indeed keyboards from usurping her at night. " Doubt, hesitation "As a Child." which she has successfully enjoyable, but additional power. 

page 10 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day classilieds Is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The




Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
TASP INTERNATIONAL IS REALLY NEED 2 PURDUE GAs $$$$NEED PENN STATE TIX$$$ Hey Diane. You rule. :) Thanks for LOOKING FOR INDIVIDUALS OR STUDENT TIX Student tix or GA's. talking. Let's be philosophical more
NOTICES 

WHO WANT TO GAIN NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State CONTACT LYNN X1675 Call x2998. than once a week, OK? 
MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE game Nov 14. BIG$ Call Sam ATTENTION: NEXT SUMMER. EARN $8,000-Collect (0)908-687-1330 (N)201-I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S WILL TRADE 2 STAN. GA's for EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY For more information and 10,000. POSTION AVILABLE 376-9427 WILL PAY, MIKE x2209 2 PURDUE GA's call Ted x2647 at The Copy Shop in LaFortune assistance regarding the 
ACROSS INDIANA (MICHIGAN) SAVE 20% off copies opportunities and work-at-home ( ((((( ((((((( Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call 283-Billy Ray Cyrus (4th Row) For Sale HELPII NEED 10 PENN ST GAs!$ on our resume paper 
investigation of financing, business 

KENTUCKY) (TENNESSEE). 4519. or Trade For GAs 289-3273. is no object! call Pat x2071 
opportunities, THE OBSERVER 

CALL TOM SMITH 1-800-543-MARGE
urges its readers to contact the 

3792 I need 2 Stanford GA's ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY I NEED 1 STANFORD GA 
Better Business Bureau of 

Call Chris X2727 HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE CALL ART x1153 Attention! Earn $2500! Students, Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-AT 618-439-3338. Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring 4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-FOR RENT NO Parents need 2 Stanford G.A's Need 2 PENN St GA's and 1 BYU LOVE, KATIE AND TRISH Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
Will Pay Big $$ Meg x2985 HELPII I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. GA-Call 273-2873 7 BC game. Please call x3799. HAPPY BIRTHDAY BOYCE 9121 or 800-439-5313. 
player needs many PU GAs and Thanks. Need 2 Penn State GA's BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC 2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 TO THE GUY IN THE RED RUGBY families. 2 bdrms. wltwin beds; 1 NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. PLAYING "CRICKET" SATURDAY WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from NEED BYU TIX! WENDY X1264 WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL Need 2 Purdue Tickets NIGHT AT COACH'S, LET ME BUY 
287-4082 campus in attractive neighborhood. COLLECT 614-354-5716 Student or GA's Chris x2169 YOUA BEERI For football & special weekends. NEED 3 STAN GA'$-WILL PAY MICHELLE 284-5202. 
*SENIORS* Call 234-2626. BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ Need GA's for all home games $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I'LL SEE YOU AT COACH'S 
Brian 273-8368 I DESPERATELY NEED TONIGHT!
SENIOR CLASS CRUISE need to sublet turtle $$$$$$ GA & STUD STANFORD TIXI! creek studio aprt. I NEED 2 STANFORD GA's Need GA's for all home games ERIN #2638 

THUR. SEPT 24 
$25 INCLUDES EVERYTHING!! 

call Damien 283-1870 Brendan X2070 Kim 284-4401 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY, 
WAYNO! Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call WE NEED TO CELEBRATE YOUR BUY@ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
studio-$220 BOOK FOR SALE -ALL TICKETS SANDY AT 272-6194. 1-800-922-BEAR. 20TH BIRTHDAY WITH 20 BEERS, I bedroom-$255 AVAILABLE-CALL KATIE AT EACH I Earn $ selling silk neck ties I hanks 1 2bedroom-$280 284-5443-LEAVE MESSAGE, HELP II! Selling STUDENT TICKET YOUR DRINKING BUDS, 
*SENIORS* 

Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 BEST OFFER Ill NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR BOOKLETS. Luis 273-1528 
suspender sets. Newest styles/ MICHELLE AND HIL! 
STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597great profit margin. $40.00 start up. 
(215) 824-2914. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WANTED: Help I I need two Purdue GA's. Will 219-291-7153 1 Purdue GA Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame pay $$$$. Call Alan @ 273-2624. DITKA 
Please II 1-415-991-3416 call collect 2 room efficiency, private Call Semo at x1871 NEED TO TRADE 2 PURDUE 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS I!! utilities paid, male preferred NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. GA'S FOR 2 STANDFORD GA'S *******HELP!I!I!IIIII 
$7 a day. Call 288-0955 Morrissey Hall & Law School CALL X2707 BEAUTIFUL, BUT DESPARATE,FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 Alumnist. Please help. Call David at GIRL NEEDS A RIDE HOME TOFORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 B & B -UNIQUE COUNTRY HAVE PURDUE STU TIX 816-931-1267. NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S PHILA. AREA FOR OCT. BREAK.
FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 

SETTING. MINUTES FROM ND. cannot go CALL ANDREW AT 1881 WILLING TO PAY GAS, TOLLS. 
at Union Station 9pm 

NEAR GRANGER. 616-663-8308. Call Michael283-1161 WILL TRADE 2 BYU or 2 PURDUE CALL LIZ X2373 STUDENT TIX FOR 2 $NEED 2 STANFORD$ tickets $16 at Lafortune Info desk. 
STANFORD GA'S. CALL SEAN $GAs x3593$ JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!! 

FOR SALE 

@X1213 Happy 18th Donzo! Have a great FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 I need 1 student ticket for Stanford Need 2 PU & 2 BYU GA's weekend, don't spew chunks! 
Joe X1666 Need 1 Stant. G.A. Call Lyn 283-4551 Love, 3-Northers pay top$$ FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!!! 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PURDUE & call Scott x4243 TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE 
BYU. PERSONAL USE ONLY. PERSONAL Hi Jellybean! 
SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! 
CALL 271-9540. $ WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ I love you. 
TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S 
Want to trade 2 GA Purdue tix for 2 CALL SHEILA AT x4251 OR CALL 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 
GA Stanford tix. Call 606-278-9820 (614) 459-0074 COLLECT Hey Squirmy-AMANDA KAY
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 272-5959 
BETWEEN 7pm & 9pm. Kill any pillows lately? Let me 
have a wonderful day
DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS 6 GA know if my lips can ever be of BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, TIX TO STANFORD GAME. WILL assistance. If you're not busy 
TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING CHEAP I FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES ......... $200 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING! II
MAKE VERY GENEROUS OFFER. I have BYU stud. Friday night. how 'bout a date? Is 3 
CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST 86 vw.......................... $ 50 
GET THE T-SHIRT!!I 
CALL 412-644-3125 (DAY) OR 412-Bob 3398 a.m. good for you? 
COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO 

87 MERCEDES .......... $100 FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN 
441-9613 (EVENING). Closet boy 
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 
***CLUB 23*** 
N.D. BAND DAD NOS G.A. FOR P.S. And I always thought halftimes 
SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 Choose from thousands starting TODAY! $2 7" Subs
UNSIGNED MARRIED STUDENT B.Y.U. REASONABLE. SARAH were boring ... 
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour 
BOOKLETS FOR SALE 271 5696 X3874Typing 237-1949 Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing #INttKJC. I'll do anything for 1 GA to B.C. or I need 3 PU stud tix PH ISH MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR 
Penn St. Lisa 284-5080. or GAs will PAYII FOR SALE: AIR TIK S.B to FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL 
Paul x2990 bootleg exchange NORFOLK Va. FOR FALL BREAK 

ILOST & FOUND I 

COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
Will trade Stanley Cup for 4 PITT Call1983 

tix. Call Mario (a.k.a. Pete) at NEED 1 PURDUE STD. TICKET call Bridget at X2818 for INFO 
Dan,

1-800-322-0228 CALL 289-5980 LOST: EYEGLASSES AND A '88HOAJZON I don't know which is sweeter, youBLACK CASE DURING MICHIGAN POWER BRAKES & STEERING. 
or the Chocolate Fantasy Cake at
GAME WEEKEND. IF FOUND, Need many BC GAs or M.Stud. NEED PURDUE & STANFORD Joey Riley of Dillon is a stud!
NEW TIRES, NC. 
Greenfields Cafe. 

CALL BRENDAN 234-1376. $ or will trade Pur, Stan or BYU G.A.'S Watch tor him on the tailgating fields 
51,000 ML Julie
GAs. Nick or Tracey 239 7733. CALLX4108 this weekend! 
289-1564. Joey is a hot man of jDillon! 
WANTED 
FOR SALE: WE love you Joe-thanks for sitting 
CHEAP FLIGHT ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. 
2 MARRIED STUD TIX BOOKS in the back of the wagonmeister! 
NY (LGA) to SB OCT 23 family can provide financial security, 
BOB 708-668-4398 Love, The Walsh Babes I Call Brian 273-0967 excellent education and wonderful 
EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. I need 1 BG GA, future for your baby. Please let us
EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. Purdue GAs For Sale or Trade Kim Massman gets hot men I help you in this difficult time. 
TICKETS Dave X4506 For Stanford, BYU, Boston College, Ask her what she does in the photo 
Confidential and legaL Medical 
BONNIE DOON or Penn State GAs. 289-3273 tunnel of love on Monday niles 
expenses paid. Collect anytime. 
HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR (especially since her man is a 
(818) 246-1763 

SERVERS, COOKS AND I desperately need a G.A. or student quitter and is no longer with us). 
FOUNTAIN I NEED ND FOOTBALL ticket for Penn State--call Jahnelle ATTENTION ARTS & LETTERS 
Apply in person to: TICKETS.272-6306 at 283-2998 Caryln,MAJORS-Ever thought about a
52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S My gums turned kind of white and 
career in advertising? Join Leo 
4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka I need GA's and/or Student tix for FOR 2 PENN ST. GA'S OR 2 I HAVE STUD TIX-ALUANY bubbly and started to bleed all over! Burnett Company of Chicago at 
all or any game. Please call STANFORD GA'S. 277-3097. GAMES. And I spit! Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24th
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Aaron @ 271-2908. 239-6915, 256-5327 Carlyn's is the skoal bandit! 
at 8pm. FREE APPLES! 
Guaranteed INCOME with I NEED 4 STUD. OR GA'S FOR HUGE PROFIT potentiaL STANFORD. PLEASE CALL MARY NEED PURDUE STUD TIX ATTENTION SCIENCE MAJORS 
Need extra money? MY SAO IS A GREAT H.S. QB. AT3427. HAVE CASH &BYU STUD TIC Ever thought about a career in
Are you motivated? HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM TO OFFER. MIKE X1103 WE HAVE PURDUE STU TIX Want to have some fun? ND. HE NEEDS PLAYS. NEEDED: 
advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, 
Send letter of interest to: THERE'S ONE WAY. 2 STANFORD GA'S Need 1 BOSTON or 1 PENN YOU NEED OUR TIXI!! Maingate Enterprises SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, CALL MIKE x1528 STATE St. Tix. Call JIM X1565 
THURSDAY SEPT 24 at 8pm. FREE APPLES! 
P0915 PENNGA'SI WE HAVE PURDUE STU TIX 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 CALL ERIN 284-5128. I NEED 1 PURDUE STUDENT OR I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket ATTENTION ENGINEERING 
or CALL: GAl CALL LISA @ 273-2527 for the Stanford game. If you can YOU REALLY NEED OUR TiX MAJORS-Ever thought about a
287-6730 (Leave message) HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC help, please call Suzy at x3722. CALL Michael @ 1161 career in advertising? Join Leo 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ thank you very much Burnett Company of Chicago at
CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM DESPERATELY SEEKING Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24
Michiana Figure Skating Club needs (609) 769-0721. NEED PURDUE GA'S FOR MY STANFORD TICKET. PLEASE at 8pm. FREE APPLES! 
a skating instructor for Wednesday FUTURE IN-LAWSII!IIIIII CALL JENNY X2725 evenings. Call Mary Myers at 287-NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC PLEASE HELPIIIIIII POLLY,
4524 or Penni Williams at 277-GA. CALL X2805 ED @ 272-0864 I need lots of PURDUE tickets !I Jeremy Holland, I REALLY ENJOYED TALKING TO 
3699. Call Nicole x1564 I see you from afar, 
YOU AND DANIELLE SATURDAY 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I think you are oh. so hot! Pis need rid€ to BOSTON for Oct. PLEASE SELL ME 2 GA TIX FOR Have 1 Stamford GA I want to be your love muffin in the 
NIGHT. I'D LIKE TO GET 
TOGETHER WITH JUST YOU NEXT WEEKEND! CALL ME AND 
break. Share gas & all. Brian 1 068 PURDUE. SELLING 1 BYU AND NEED 1 Call Jennifer 1257 bakery of love! 
CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BC TICKET. CALL NATASHA Best Offerl I hope to see you soonl I love the WANTED: Part-time child care BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 1257 way you slurp your pasta at the 
WE'LL MAKE PLANS! LOVE, JUSTIN 
worker for in-home care of 2 AFTER5 PM. Need 1 0 plus BYU GA's dining hall, it turns me on. 
children, 1 infant. 10-12 PURDUE Call#1852 love and hot passionate kisses, hours/week, afternoons. 273-1702. stud. tkts. FOR SALE!!! Your secret love bunny 
NICK GRAF IS A FELCHERI 
call #1756 NEED PURDUE GA's FOR EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE G-PARENTSIII CALL 284-5118 DANNY, 
I AM TRULY SORRY FOR DOUBTING YOU. FROM NOW 
circularsi ... Begin NOWI ... FREE NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD I NEED YOUR GAs 
packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box CALL 283-1747 GA'S. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL HELP! NEED 3 PURDUE GA's. I NEED YOUR GAs UNTIL THE END OF TIME, I
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. RON x2001 PLEASE CALL 284-44051 COMPETITIVE PRICES WHOLEHEARTEDLY PLEDGE MY 
KYLE 287-9118 WANTED 2 BUY: 2 GA TIX FOR Need 2 Stanford GA's 
UNDYING SUPPORT FOR AMERICA'S TEAM AND THE NEXT
ANY HOME GAME PLS CALL I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs NEED 2 PURDUE GA's Todd x2292 SUPERBOWL CHAMPIONS, THE 
MARIA (716)256-2923 ASAP! YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE CALL Derek xt771 Hill Head, ONE AND ONLY DALLAS 
GAs Need Pur. & Stan. GA's Wanna come back to my ranch 
COWBOYS. YOUR FELLOW 
WANNA TRADE? I r>eed 2 GAs for Purdue or Call Mike #1151 Leave msg. and ride my bronco? COWBOY FAN, 
Call Bret (me) at 1248. I love you. Stanford -call Tom 289-3887 from Crackbaby KATHLEEN 


Giants beat the Bears for their first win 
Tough road gives the Belles trouble 
By EILEEN McGUIRE Sports Writer 
Many teams would not 
look  forward  to  
participating  in  a  
tournament  where  they  

have no experience or knowledge of the competition at all. 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team had that exact experience last weekend at the Baldwin­Wallace College Tournament in Ohio. The Belles were successful in the fact that they made it to the playoffs and ultimately placed sixth out of 14 teams boosting their record to 7-4. 
Trouble started early, however, as the Belles were required to play ten minutes after reaching the tournament site. They were aligned with Baldwin­Wallace in the first match and due to inadequate warm-up time, Saint Mary's lost, 14-9, 15-1. 
"Baldwin-Wallace was a very good team," explained coach Julie Schroeder-Biek, "but we were not mentally prepared for the game. We had moments of brillance where we looked wonderful, but we just couldn't get it together. They (Baldwin­Wallace) were heatable." 
Senior Captain Karen Lorton agreed. 
They were a good team all around. They were scrappy, and they were able to get everything. However, we did not play up to our potential," stated Lorton. 
The team's bench played a significant role throughout the tournament. Freshman Barb VanDersal helped in the second game against Baldwin-Wallace by scoring the only point Saint Mary's was able to gain. 
In the Belles' second match (against Wittenberg), Saint Mary's was quickly off to a great start. Although they lost the first game in a breath-taking confrontation, the Belles took the match 12-15, 15-3, 15-11. This allowed the Belles to regain their confidence. 
Senior Captain Karen Lorton excelled both offensively and defensively this weekend. She came up with 43 kills and 66 digs in five games. 
"Every time Karen got the ball she did something with it," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Junior Michelle Martino sparked the tournament with 85 assists in the five­game duration. 
In the play-off game against John Hopkins, the Belles were down 12-0. They came back before losing the game by a score of 
15-12. 
"The whole tournament was a great team effort," stated Schroeder-Biek. "We served over .900 this weekend and averaged 3 aces per game. There was not a team in that tourna­ment that we could not have beaten. We just need to concentrate on our mental game," she concluded. 


Tennis 
continued from page 16 
same. Like the football team, the Irish are once again ranked in the top 10, at num­ber six, and though DiLucia has moved on to the professional ranks, Notre Dame is loaded. They return 10 out of their 11 starters, led by six seniors, and Bayliss has brought in a crew of talented freshmen. 
If you're a player or just a 
CHICAGO (AP} -The New York Giants finally found a remedy for a leaky defense that gave up the most points in the NFL in the season's first two weeks. 
Keep it off the field. 
With Phil Simms throwing for 220 yards and two touchdowns and Stephen Baker catching seven passes for 109 yards, the Giants reverted to the ball con­trol formula that won them a Super Bowl just two seasons ago to beat the Chicago Bears 27-14 Monday night for their first win of the season 
After trailing 7-0 and 14-7, the Giants tied the game 14-14 by halftime and then controlled the ball for 12:17 in the third quarter and outgained the Bears 155-3 in the period. 
They broke the tie on a 13­yard pass from Simms to Baker that gave them the lead in a game for the first time this sea­son, then added 31-and 32­yard field goals by Matt Bahr, the second set up by Dave Meggett's 39-yard punt return. 
Simms, who finished 19 for 30, also had a 15-yard TD pass to Howard Cross in the first period and Rodney Hampton, who gained 21 yards in 92 car­ries, scored on a 1-yard run as the Giants won in Chicago for the first time since 1962, when the Bears played at Wrigley Field. They had lost six times during that period. 
For the Bears, it was the sec­ond straight loss after an open­ing-day win and marked the first time since 1983 that they have lost more than one game in September. 
The weird first half featured fan, a trip to the Courtney Tennis Center or the Eck Tennis Pavilion for a tennis tournament will surely be an entertaining day of top-flight tennis. 

Covering the team last year, I had the pleasure of watching DiLucia battle back from match point against another ranked opponent, in his last home match. In the company of a large, boisterous crowd, incited by the players' McEnroe-like antics, I witnessed a great feat of courage that I will not soon forget. 
three fumbles by the Bears that they recovered themselves, a botched fake punt by Chicago, an interception of a pass by Chicago running back Brad Muster and a short fight that led to the ejection of Giants wide receiver Mark Ingram. 
Chicago scored first, driving 7 4 yards in nine plays capped by an 8-yard TD pass to Neal Anderson by Jim Harbaugh, who was 15 of 28 for 183 yards. But the Giants came right back, going 78 yards in seven plays as Simms hit Cross from 15 yards out for the score. 
Then it was Chicago's turn, a 42-yard connection from Har­baugh to Muster, who caught the ball 5 yards past the line of scrimamge, juggled it, then broke three tackles and took off down the right sideline for the end zone. 
But the Bears blew a chance to take an even bigger lead after Trace Armstrong recov­ered a fumble by Jarrod Bunch at the New York 26. 
Chicago then called a timeout and the first play was an option pass by Muster that sailed far over the head of every Bear and was picked off by Greg Jackson in the end zone. 
Everson Walls' interception, the 55th of his career, set up the tying score for the Giants, which came on a 1-yard dive by Hampton at the end of a 4 7­yard drive. 
Then the Giants took the opening kickoff of the second half and went 80 yards in 11 plays capped by Simms' TD pass to Baker in the corner of the end zone. 
Eucharistic Ministe'rs Workshop 
II 
Tuesday, Septe1nber 22, 10:00 pn1 Basilica of Sacred Heart 
IMI 
0MPUS 
MNISTRY 

BANQUET  Tuesday, September 22. It will be held  
in the Monogram Room ofthe J.A.C.C.  
6:30 Hors d'oeuvres  7:15 Dinner  

*If you si~med up for the BanQuet. your J.D. wjll be jnvlaid for dinner Tuesday
*Check in and table assignments begin at 6:30p.m. 
* Dress is semiformal. 

CAREER FAIR Wednesday, September 23. Fitzpatrick Hall 
11:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. 
*Representatives from over 30 major companies. 
*Opportunities for full-time employment and summer internships. 
*Brin2 your resumes!!! Sponsored by the JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL and SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS 
Tuesday, September 22, 1992 The Observer 
page 13 




Braves win; magic number is six 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Pete Smith improved to 6-0 with 7 2­3 strong innings and Atlanta scored two runs on wild pitches by Orel Hershiser to beat Los Angeles 4-2 Monday night, re­ducing its magic number to six for clinching the NL West. 
Smith allowed one run and four hits before Mike Stanton finished for his eighth save, giving up a run in the ninth. 
The Braves improved their record to 9-0 in Smith's starts since he was recalled from Triple-A Richmond on July 29 after Mike BiP.IP-cki was placed on the disabled list. Smith, who did not have a winning record in any of his previous five sea­sons with Atlanta, improved his career mark to 25-40. 
David Justice hit a two-run homer in the ninth for the Braves, his 19th. 
Despite allowing only four hits and an earned run in seven in­nings, Hershiser (1 0-14) lost to the Braves for the third time in a row after winning his previ­ous 12 decisions against them. 
Giants 7, Padres 1 
SAN DIEGO -RookiP !.rail! 
Colbert hit a two-run homer, his first in the major leagues, to highlight a four-run sixth inning as San Francisco beat San Diego. 
Another rookie, Ted Wood, also hit his first major-league homer with a solo shot in the ninth. 
With scheduled starter John Burkett sidelined, four San Francisco pitchers combined to pitch a nine-hitter that sent the Padres to their fourth straight loss. 
What do a chemistry major. a marketing major. a finance major.and an American studies majorhave in common? 
They were all hired byLeo Burnett 
Whether your major is basketweaving crPJiitical sdence. you might have what ittakes to get into advertising. Because. at Leo Burnett. we lookfor mcre thanjust a major. We lookfor smart. fun, energertic ~who are interested in the wor1d of advertising. If you're one ci the interested. stop by our presentation sept. 24 at the University Club from 8-10 p.m. You'll see some great rommerdals. and you'll hear Notre Dame alums tell you what acareer in ac:lvertising is really like. (Get there eartv. the gocd food goes fast!) 


Leo Burnett Company, Inc. 
Advertising 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
ND/SMC women's lacrosse is still looking for members. Questions? Call Heather at 284-5103 or Cathy at 283-4998. 
The campus 2-person golf scramble will take place on September 27. The tournament is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. 
NO Varsity Hockey is looking for statisticians and videotapers for the upcoming season. Anyone interested please call assistant coach Jim Johnson at 239-5227. 
NO Tae Kwon Do Club will be having class in the fencing gym Wednesday at 8 p.m. Questions? Call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797. 
SportsTalk on WVFI 640 AM welcomes Jim Flanigan and cross country runners Mike McWilliams and Eva Flood on Tuesday at 8 p.m. Call in with questions at 239-6400. 
IH WALSH 16, HOWARD 0 Walsh shut down Howard with a strong defense led by
continued from page 16 
Jen Riley who had two inter­
ceptions and two sacks in the 
SIEGFRIED 13, game. 
KNOTT7 

Siegfried bested Knott on a Walsh's first touchdown came pair of touchdowns by Slammer on a pass from quarterback quarterback Marcie McNiel and Michelle Drury to Erin Ni­Suzanne Juster. Juster had two cholas. The second touchdown 
touchdown receptions from was scored by Terri Castellucci. McNiel in addition to a on a running play. converted extra point. 
The Angels scored on a 50-Although Howard defeated yard center-sneak play. Badin 6-0 in a scrimmage last 
Defensively, Beth Keuter had Thursday night, the team an interception, but the entire wasn't ready for Walsh, but defensive team contributed in should be ready for their next the game. game on Wednesday night 
Siegfried plays Lewis at 7 against Off-Campus at 8 p.m. 
p.m. on Wednesday and Knott Walsh plays BP at 6 p.m. on plays PW at 8 p.m. Wednesday. 







The Observer 
News Department is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Business Editor 
Please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 24. For more info, call239-5303 

c 0 L L E G E 0 F ARTS AND LETTERS 
SESQUICENTENNIAL E V E N T S 
M A s s CONVOCATION 
AND PRESENTATION OF
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 s:oo P.M. 
SHEEDY AWARD FOR TEACHING BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 DEBARTOLO HALL, 

• 
STUDENTS, FACULTY, A N D FRIENDS WELCOME 

-----~--~~---~~. ~~--~ ~ 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 22, 1992 
Hornets close to 

Women's golf wins, but men aren't happy 
re-signing Reid 

MACRI'S PIZZA & ITALIAN RESTAURANT Pizza & Pasta-Sandwiches-Appetizers 

Ill SENIOR
25 Pizza To~pings & 1 lb. burgers Free Dehvery to Campus SEPTEMBER SPECIALS:(exp1res 9/30/92) 
DINEJNONLY PICKUP ONLY 20% off pinas $1 off any 12" or 14" Pizza 
!CLUB
with this ad and $2 off 16" or 18" Pizza ,!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!! .Srudenc ID 
Onlywirlt t!riJad 
1 
.. 

Alutnni--Senior Club 
271~2055 
52303 Emmons Rd.
OPEN 
Georgetown Shopping Cencer 
1lam -10 pm 
and
(nexc co Club Shenanigan's) 

The Class of '93 
present

#'161'J'~OUR PHOTO t PORTRAITS 
Ql6 rrsk1ne PlolQ • Soulh Bend. Indiana .46614 
(219) m OI:IJO 
A Class picnic 
J!vaifa6{e for 
Personal Portraits• Passports• Identification 
Wednesday 7 ; 9 p.m. 
Graduation Pictures Always at a reasonable price 
Free Burgers, Hot Dogs, & Brats 
Just 5 minutes from campus 
must be 21 
CHARLOTIE, N.C. (AP)-J.R. Reid signed a multiyear contract extension with Char­lotte on Monday in a deal that's expected to help the Hornets move closer to signing No. 1 draft pick Alonzo Mourning. 
"J.R.'s agreement to renego­tiate his contract and, in the process, defer a sum of money until down the road, brings us that much closer to signing Alonzo Mourning, and demon­strates J.R. as being a team player," team president Spencer Stolpen said. 
The team did not release de­tails of the contract. 
The Gaston (N.C.) Gazette re­ported in Tuesday's editions that Mourning will sign a six­year, $21 million contract sometime this week. "It's con­ceivable that it could he done Wednesday and we're confi­dent that it will be done in short order," team president Spencer Stolpen told the paper. 
Should Mourning sign this week, he would be only the second Hornets' first-rounder to be signed by the opening of training camp in the team's five-year existence. Previous first-round picks Larry John­son, Kendall Gill, and Rex Chapman were holdouts. Reid was signed just prior to camp. 
Reid, who was married last Saturday, is coming off an in­jury-plagued season for which he was sidelined for more than one-third because of a stress fracture in his lower back. De­spite the injury, Heid averaged 11 points and 6.2 rebounds per game, slightly off his three­year NBA career figures. 
The former North Carolina star is already the team's all­time rebounding leader with 1,510 and is second all-time in minutes played. 
He said that having played against Mourning made him aware of what the Georgetown center can add to the Hornets. 
"And with the team we're putting together down here, Charlotte is looking more and more like the place to be," Heid said. "I'm glad we were able to work this out." 
Heid is the second member of the Hornets to defer payments on his contract to give the team more money with which to bring Mourning into camp be­fore it opens Oct. 9. Muggsy Bogues has signed a contract in which his payments are de­ferred as part of Charlotte's ef­fort to provide more money 
under the NBA salary cap. 
By DAVE STUMM Sports Writer 

The women's golf team con­tinued its steady improvement this weekend with an impres­sive first-place finish at the Ferris State Invitational. 
Coach Tom Hanlon was happy with his team's three-stroke victory, which was paced by Kathy Phares' second-place finish with a 159. 
Newcomer Julie Melby was equally impressive as she fired a 163. Melby continues to im­press Hanlon. "She is going to be a very good golfer. She has a lot of experience in high school and national tourna-
SWEETSPOT RACQUET SHOP 
Everything you need in racquet sports. 
Everything. 
Restring with 
301 E. Day Road ~ cl 
ments." 

Other contributions to the team were from Crissy Klein (166, 6th), Katie Shannon (161, 7th), Sara Huzzo (171, 1Oth), and Alicia Murray (173, 11th). 
The women continued to struggle with the short game, as many shots were lost with short putts. But the team is confident for next weekend's tournament, and looks to build on their improvement. 
But unfortunately the story is not the same for the men's team, which was disappointed with a ninth-place finish at the Cincinnati Invitational this weekend. 
258-4268 ~ Day ~ N.D. 

prince· 
Wi.£6on 
0~ 
Ed;wo!I 
Miami of Ohio won the field of sixteen teams, finishing 34 strokes in front of the Irish. 
The team was looking to con­tinue its strong performances, but the course was just too much for Coach George Thomas' men. 
"Maybe we had a bad start and couldn't recover, but I ex-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Sports Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Friday Sept. 25. Contact Mike at 239-7471 for more information. 
Ill 


pected much more than that," said Thomas. 
The team was led by Joe Dennen's 152, followed by Chris Dayton (156), Chris O'Connell (160), Mike Chaney (162), and Cole Hanson (165). The men have a while to work on their game and prepare for the MCC's in two weeks. 
FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. For more information contact: 
Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment 
P.O. Box 6057 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903 
1-800-247-8590 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmative action and equal opportunity educator and employer. A smoke~ free institution. 


SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
BILL WATIERSONCALVIN AND HOBBES 
TillS IS JUST '(OUR CLUMSY 'tiP...~ OF CQ?I~G W\T\1 mE 11-\E ll<UT\-1 W\LL '3£1 Fr-.c.:r Tl{fo..l I'M A G£NI\JS '(OUR. TEffi\ fREE . AI-ID YOU'K£ StiLL S~LI"G 
wrrn niE cot-KE?I Ot 
W~L~II'IG E~CI. 
"OK, ma'am, you said you warned your husband to put the newspaper down or you'd blow him away.... Did he respond?" 
i~~~H~2--------~rC~A~M~P~US~------------------------~ 
CROSSWORD Tuesday 
7 p.m. Film, "And God Created Woman." Annenberg Auditorium.
ACROSS 35 Right angles &1 Smog's cousin 
9 p.m. Film, "Day of Wrath." Annenberg Auditorium. 
3& Feed-bag &5 Kind of history1 Big brass? 
morsel 

&& Cavalry weapon 38 --off (angry) 
s--roe 
9 Game loser &7 Begin 13Top 39Combine &8 Refuse 14 More ashen 41 First name in &9 Disney canine 
LECTURES 
mysteries

1& Scat singer 10 Take care of 17 Entrance 42 Roach of film fame 
Tuesday
18 Bridal path 
DOWN 
3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Synthesis of Hydrogen
19 Ornery 43 Labels 
Permselective Membranes by Chemical Vapor Deposition of
20 Leo's team? 44"--forAII 1 Running game 
Seasons" 

Si02 in Porous Substrates," G.R. Gavalas, California Institute 
23 Palm Springs, 2--tree 
of Technology. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by
e.g. 45 Aries team? (cornered) 
the department of Chemical Engineering. 
2& Primary color 50 A Gershwin 3 Vegas 
transaction 
4:30 p.m. Biological Sciences Seminar, "Perception of
27 John, in 51 Ga. neighbor
Scotland 4Chopped 
Profitability and Choice of Flowers by Honey Bees," Dr. Keith
52 Rest 5 Large 28 Team for9 

Waddington, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL.
53 Taurus's team? outpouringsDown? 
Auditorium, Galvin Life Center. Sponsored by Biological
59 Require & Pageboy, e.g. 
34 "Picnic" 
Sciences.
7 In addition a Sandwich shop 
playwright 60 Get around 
Wednesday
9 Constellation containing 
12:15 p.m. Fall Lecture Series Racism: Women's Voices, 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
"Making Contact with the Unfamiliar Other," Patricia
Castor and 
Pollux 
Washington, I.U.S.B. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall, Saint 
~~+"'-Fi 10 Supermarket 
Mary's College. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint 
item 

Mary's College. 
11 Actor Thicke · 31 High-school 48 Queen of 5& Roundish
12 UV effects subj. detective stories 57 Gilda Radner 15 Change a name 32 Ordinary 49 -hepatica persona21 Poetic 33 Item sold at 8 53 Bumpkin
palindrome sa Worn-out
54 Also-ran of fable 22 Rules ss"-Dream, &2 Copy
Down 
37 Uptight

-:'-:+.:-:+=,+=-! 23 Maggie or Can't 1?": 1937 &3 --Buddhism
39 Gets byAlexis 40 Rhode Island song 64 Purpose 
Notre Dame 
24 Like certain White's deposit 
Marinated Flank Steak Sandwich 
cones 41 Attention 
Chili Crispitos 
7-f.:=-+7+=-l 25 Boxing's 
43 Neighbor of 

Get answers to any three clues 
Turkey Pot Pie 
Dundee Twelve Oaks 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
-=+:=+:-Ei 29 Actor Beatty 4&Feeble ~;;..&..:.....J..=..J 30 Concise 47 Praised 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Saint Mary's 
Chicken Flautos Thai Bar BBQ Ribs 
Calvin and Hobbes by Bill Watterson 

Today
Tuesday, September 22,1992 page 15 

MIS':> 'NORMWOC>D. 
I'~ f>.. FIERCE ~1/0CI\it Cf THE SEPf>..Rfo..TICN OF 
rnuRc\-\ f>W) 
5\fo.TE. 

50 I Wf:o.S 'NONOERII'ol6 If I \\.IE I'{EED R>R 'SI'IR\1\l,.._L 
l{t.I.JER\1\t.l.ES'S, I FEI:L 

CO\llD 'STRW \)OWN, SMEfo..R GU\OMKE AN\) C\)MR)R.T 
M~St.LF Win\ Pti'S%', .AN\) AS I tAC£ \\-IE D~'i'S " 
S£1 FIR\:. 10 TI{\'S UTI\.£ 5\R\l<*.Lt.S. ~ EFF\G'l OV: '10\J \~ t>.. 
~ ~at-\. ·\)Et-.IC>t-\IN~T\ONfo..L
\ 

~ SORT ar; WP...i.
Ir-----~---­
~I! 
!1 
~· --~ 
i 

Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, September 22, 1992 
JONATHAN Saint Mary's beats Maroons 2-0 
JENSEN 
Game Point 

Head to Eck to catch some top tennis 
It is one of the premier programs in the nation, with a unique blend of talent and leadership, all tied together by one of the country's great coaches. 
But until this coach arrived the program was on a down swing, trying to grasp hold of its tradition and return to days of yore when it competed for the national championship. 
They are coming off an outstanding season, and should once again compete for the title. Their roster is dotted with potential All-Americans, including one of the nation's best recruiting classes. 
But one of their hurdles, along with a non-compromising commitment to academics, is their schedule, which is arguably the nation's best. 
Does all this sound familar? Sounds a little like Notre Dame football, huh? 
Well, what I've just described to you is a portrait of the Notre Dame men's tennis team. 
Many people on campus know about the team's recent ascension to glory under last year's NCAA Coach-of-the­Year Bob Bayliss, who arrived in 1988. But not enough. 
When Bayliss arrived he took control of a program that had not made an appearance in the NCAA tournament since 1959, when it won the national championship under legendary coach Tom Fallon. 
But Bayliss has changed all that. 
It all started with the recruitment of top prospect David Dilucia, who was wooed by the beautiful Eck Tennis Pavilion and the challenge of bringing a cold weather program to prominance in a sport dominated by teams like USC and Georgia, teams that can play tennis outdoors all-year round. 
This journey culminated with the Irish's 23-4 record last year, led by DiLucia, who with hard work and perseverence became the number-one ranked tennis player in the nation towards the end of last season. 
The Irish entered the tournament unsatisfied just to be there, they wanted to prove they have arrived. And boy did they ever. 
In an unfathomable turn of events, the lOth-seeded Irish upset seventh­ranked Mississippi State, number-three Georgia on their own home court, and then number-one-ranked USC to make the first appearance in the finals for a cold-weather team since the current format was adopted in 1977. 
A loss to number-two Stanford did not diminish the Irish's accomplishment, as they had proved what they set out to prove. 
This year should bring much of the 
see TENNIS I page 12 
The Observer I Jake Peters Stopper Mandy Eiler and the Belles defeated the University of Chicago yesterday in a game called early due to heavy thunderstorms. 
By NICOLE McGRATH 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
A drenching thunderstorm became the University of Chicago's only asset as the St. Mary's soccer team was forced off the field halfway through the second half, claiming a 2-0 victory. 
The Maroons proved to be a weak opponent but the Belles were still unable to convert their cornerkicks into goals. 
"This seems to be our team's history so far," commented Coach Tom VanMeter on the offense's slow­scoring game. For instance, th~ Belles took twelve shots but only five were on goal. According to VanMeter, turning their shots into goals is something the Belles have to focus on at practices. 
The University of Chicago certainly seemed to hand the Belles every opportunity to win. 
About halfway into the first half, Megan Dalsaso scored the first goal with an assist from Kristen Crowley. 
The Maroons were not able to get near the box and were not able to get any shots on goal throughout the game. 
"Our defense did an excellent job of covering the field," said VanMeter. "We still need to grow with more practice and time." 
It seems that the rainy weather actually improved the Belles' playing ability. 
"We concentrated harder on our shots because of the rain," stated VanMeter. After the rain started falling in the second half, the Maroon's goalie let the ball slip out of her hands, allowing Molly O'Connel to score the second goal unassisted. 
The Belles tried to go for the kill seconds later, when forward Maura Sullivan sliced her way through the Maroons' defense for what seemed to be a third goal. But referees called it a dangerous play and took it back. 
That wasn't the only dangerous play of the game. 
During both halves, University of Chicago's frustration was apparent. At the end of the first half, Maroon Katie Schulte took a yellow card for obstructing the keeper and unsportsmanlike conduct. 
"It is always frightening when something like that happens," said Vanmeter, "but Mary Beth Barger kept her cool." 
According to VanMeter, the Belles have had a tendency to be passive towards their opponents but today was a turning point. 
"We took a giant step in the right direction by stepping up our play and staying within the rules," stated VanMeter. 
The Belles will be taking their show on the road Wednesday when they take on Wheaton College. 
"I was really happy that we had more composure,"said VanMeter. "I see the beginnings of team maturity." 
Women's IH football season kicks off 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Pasquerilla West took note of the way Lou Holtz's football team took an early lead against Michigan State and did the same in its 25-22 victory over Pasquerilla East on Sunday night. 
The Weasel's quarterback Bethany Riddle threw a long pass to Christie Lewis for a touchdown on the very first play of the game. Jenny Tate ran in the one-point conversion. 
After the PW defense stopped the Pyros on their first possesion, the Weasels increased their lead with a touchdown run by Tate. PW couldn't convert the extra point. 
The Pyros surged late in the first half and PE quarterback Alison Kossler ran down the sideline for her first of two touchdowns. Marina Alkidas converted the first extra point. Shelly DeMott also scored for the Pyros on a pass from Kossler. 

PW widened its lead with a touchdown by Riddle off a broken play and a touchdown off a goaline center sneak by Amy Robs. Kossler ran in the last PE touchdown and converted the extra point on a pass to Liz Connors. 
The Weasels notched three interceptions in the game off Kossler by Kathleen Glines, Tanya Bulakowski and Kieu Vu. The entire Pryo defense played tough stopping the Weasels on several key drives. PW plays Knott at 8 p.m. on Wednesday and PE plays Farley at 9 p.m. 
';iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.;.B I u e Deviis on February 6 INSIDE SPORTS and travel to Ann Arbor to 
face the runner-up .....-N-o-t-re D_a_m_e_g_o...,..lf:---------, Michigan Wolverines, as the
___  
see page 14  "Fab 5" try to duplicate last season's success. The third  
Final  Four  team,  the  
•Full basketball schedule  Indiana Hoosiers, comes to  
see page 11  the Joyce ACC for an early­season match-up on De­ 
liSt. Mary's volleyball  cember 8.  
~:  see page 12  The schedule features  

Irish hoops schedule for 1992-93 is announced 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's men's basketball team announced its 1992­93 schedule recently. Once again, second-year head coach John Macleod and the Irish will not shy away from the top teams in the nation. 
Three Final Four teams from last year's NCAA Tournament are on the schedule. The Irish will host the NCAA champion Duke eight other teams that qualified for the NCAA Tournament -Evansville, USC, Stanford, La Salle, Missouri, UCLA, Kentucky, DePaul, North Carolina, and Louisville -plus two teams that competed in the NIT Tournament: Boston College and Butler. 

In another change under Coach Macleod, the Irish will compete in a holiday tournament for the first time since the 1969-70 season. Notre Dame will face the University of New Orleans in the first game of the Sugar Bowl Tournament in New Orleans, which takes place on December 28 and 29. 
The Irish will once again face all eight teams from the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, Notre Dame's conference for Olympic sports. The season will begin with a charity 
LEWIS 19, FARLEY 14 

Tracy Cote intercepted the ball late in the game and ran it back for a touchdown to ice the victory for the Chickens. 
Also scoring for Lewis was Allie Heidbrink who ran the ball in and Julie Fleck who caught a pass from quarterback Nicole Neidlinger in the endzone. Shirley Nagy converted the ex­tra point after Neidlinger scored. 
For Farley's Finest, Shelley Stefan scored both touchdowns and also converted one of the extra points. Michelle Breshnahan converted the second extra point. 
Lewis plays Siegfried at 7 p.m. on Wednesday and Farley plays PE at 9 p.m. 
see IH I page 14 








