

VOL. XXIV NO. 132 
-
WEDNESDAY , APRIL 15, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Committee will evaluate 
···'-­

undergaduate education 

By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
A committee of students and faculty is being formed that will monitor the quality of un­dergraduate education at Notre Dame, Student Body President Greg Butrus recently announced. 
The Standing Committee for Undergraduate Education will address issues raised by Student Government in their report for the Board of Trustees, "Back to Basics." According to Butrus, the com­mittee will consist of seven stu­dents and two faculty who will continually monitor class sizes, class availability and faculty hiring. 
The committee will also try to establish a more cooperative relationship with administra­tion officials, Butrus added, so they will be able to collect the information they need to moni­tor the University's progress. Butrus said this should not be


Jamming for charity 
difficult because "the 

Musicians join in "Judy's Jam", which took place last night. Donations to sponsor the musicians were Administration says their goal 
accepted to benefit the Catholic Worker House . is a quality undergraduate edu­
Chicago's loop closed down after flooded by tunnel leak 
CHICAGO (AP) -Mayor Richard Daley on Tuesday fired an official he said failed to heed a warning that probably could have prevented the flooding that has paralyzed much of Chicago's business district. 
"This morning I have re­quested and received the resig­nation of acting transportation commissioner John LaPlante," Daley said at a news conference at City Hall. 
LaPlante ignored a memo April 2 that warned him to im­mediately repair a crack in a tunnel under the Chicago River, Daley said. "The memo said the wall should be immediately re­paired. citing the danger of flooding the entire freight tun­nel system," Daley said. 
On Monday, the tunnel did in­deed burst, sending water through the turn-of-the-century freight tunnel network and flooding basements under the city's Loop district with millions of gallons of water. 
Phones went unanswered at LaPlante's office Tuesday afternoon. 
Daley said that after the memo came in, LaPlante's de­partment began getting cost es­timates from a couple of con­struction companies, decided they were too high and was weighing further action when the collapse occurred. 


SMC selects commencement speaker 
Special to The Observer 
Virginia state Supreme Court Justice Elizabeth Lacy will ad­dress the 1992 graduating class of Saint Mary's College at its 145th annual commencement on May 16. 
The College expects 423 graduates to take part in this year's ceremony, which begins at noon, outdoors in the Court of LeMans Hall. In the event of inclement weather, the proceedings will take place in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Saint Mary's will award an honorary degree to the Rev. Edward Malloy, president of the University of Notre Dame, in recognition of his personal accomplishments and in com­memoration of the University's 150th anniversary. 
The College will present its President's Medal for commu­nity service and contributions to 
the  life  of  the  College  to  
Maureen  Welch  of  
Mechanicsville, PA.  

Valedictorian for the senior 



Elizabeth Lacy 
class is Teresa Lynch, an English Literature major from Joliet, IL. 
Other events on the com­mencement weekend schedule include the annual pinning cer­emony for nursing graduates, marking their entry into the nursing profession, on May 15 at 1 p.m. in the LeMans Chapel. The baccalaureate mass will also be celebrated on the 15th, at 4 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility, with Bishop John D'Arcy of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend presiding and Malloy giving the homily. 
Lacy was appointed to the Supreme Court of Virginia in 1989. She is a 1966 cum laude graduate of Saint Mary's, re­ceiving a bachelor's degree in history. 
After graduation from the University of Texas Law School, she worked as a staff attorney with the Texas Legislative Council from 1969 to 1972. Lacy's 12-year term with the Virginia Supreme Court began February 1, 1989. 
Saint Mary's will present her with an honorary doctorate of humanities degree. 
Malloy, who will also receive an honorary doctorate degree of humanities, was named president of Notre Dame in 1986. He is vice chair and chair-elect of the American Council on Education board of directors and serves on the board of nominators of the 
see SPEAKERS/ page 4 
cation." 
"Undergraduate education is our top priority," Butrus con­tinued. "We will meet regularly to make sure it gets the funding and attention it deserves and to see if we are meeting our goals." 
The committee will be com­posed of one student senator, one class officer, two hall pres­idents, two faculty members and three appointees chosen by Butrus. It will be chaired by Butrus and one of his ap­pointees. 
"It is a working group that will be thinking on a constant basis," Butrus said. "If we see that improvements are not made on the quality of under­graduate education, we will be able to move quickly and report to appropriate administrative officials." 
"It is a tremendous priority of Student Government to keep attention focused on this issue," he added. "The dialogue has begun. We are going to make sure it continues." 
problem that could have been avoided. This was not a minor oversight." 
Much of the Loop remained closed Tuesday, as city workers struggled to plug the leak and drain the water -and fish ­that stood more than 40 feet deep in the bowels of some high-rises. 
Some 200 buildings remained dark Tuesday. Power was shut off to avert a threat of trans­formers shorting out and ex­ploding in the flooded areas. Officials said they were not cer­tain when power would be re­stored. 
Gov. Jim Edgar said he has declared Chicago a state disas­ter area and would ask the fed­eral government for emergency disaster relief. 
Despite reports late Monday that the hole leading into the old system of freight tunnels had been sealed, Dave Mosena, chief of staff for Daley, said that water continued to flow. 
"We are not out of the water by any means," Mosena said Tuesday morning. 
Subway riders were forced to use buses or elevated trains to get downtown, uncertain whether their buildings were open. Police directed traffic at busy intersections where sig­
see FLOOD I page 4 


HPC discusses options for current food policy 
By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
In response to recent complaints about its food policy, the Hall Presidents' Council decided last night to investigate giving their identification numbers and having meals from· the dining halls delivered for post-meeting dinners. 
The HPC values its post­meeting social time to discuss ideas between dorm presidents that are not possible during the meeting. However, the group wants to maintain the student body support which has fallen into question because of the past tradition of dinners funded by each dorm for HPC members. 
Stanford co*president Kevin Monohan said that 
the past complimentary dinners were an "act of hospitality" to thank the HPC for its service to the students. 
Serving only snacks was suggested, but Siegfried Hall president Priscilla Peralta said that when this was offered at St. Ed's last week, no one stayed. 
Hall presidents plan to reconvene on the food issue next week after talking to their hall councils. 
HPC passed a resolution instituting two study days for the fall 1992 semester which was unanimously passed at the Student Senate on Monday. 
A resolution offering non­monetary support of the wrestling team "pursuant to any attempt to secure 

see HPC t page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Even the 
worst news is 


still news 
News that two Saint------­


Mary's students were 
raped within two weeks 
has shocked both 
campuses. It's sadly ironic 
that the incidents 
happened just days after 
Sexual Assault Awareness 
Week reminded the.­
community with letters and MONICA 
red ribbons that rape is a YANT very real, and very Editor-in-Chief 
prevalent, occurrence. 
The news elicits from the average student a 

range of emotions, from fear to rage. But for 
editors at The Observer, the shock hits closer 
to home when decisions must be made on how 
to cover these sensitive cases. 
Covering a rape is unlike any other situation 

facing student editors. On one hand. it is a 
reporter's instinct to push for all the facts and 
details. On the other, there is logic and 
sensitivity that dictates caution and respect for 
the survivor. 
Our job is not made easier by campus au­

thorities. At both Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's, administrators draw a fine line be­
tween what to release and what to contain. 
With sexual assaults involving unknown at­
tackers, both schools are almost always willing 
to release the necessary information. 
But when a rape involves an acquaintance, 

usually presumed to be a male Notre Dame 
student, 'mum' is the word. 
Administrators and security otlicials at both schools differ on the reasoning for keeping most acquaintance rapes out of The Observer. Some argue that the incidents are matters for Student Affairs to handle and are therefore confidential. Others claim that secrecy is kept only in the interest of the survivor. 
The Observer has maintained and proven that our interest in reporting on any sexual assault is not to sensationalize the incident or endanger the survivor; we do not print names or any other descriptive features about assaults that could jeopardize a survivor's safety. 
But at the same time, we have repeatedly stressed that the dissemination of even the most basic information about rapes-especially acquaintance rapes-is of the utmost interest to the student bodies for purposes of education, protection and prevention. Saint Mary's security and Residence Life should be applauded for doing just that with the rape that occurred last Thursday. 
The Observer is not alone in its crusade for a more open policy for the release of information on sexual assaults. Notre Dame's Student Government and Campus Life Council are among many groups demanding that the administration commit itself to protecting its students in the best way possible-by being truthful to them when acquaintance rapes occur. 
Not all survivors find the courage to report their stories to security, which usually leads to newspaper coverage. For those that opt to handle the incident through Student Affairs, the need for a timely release to the media is no different than for those who file a security report. 
With either channel, the stories remain the same. And with either channel, the possibility that alerting students to the stories will prevent future incidents must necessitate that the release of information be the same. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 

Production  News  
Stephanie Goldman  Julie Barrett  
Lisa Bourdon  Sarah Doran  
Graphics  Sports  
Ann Marie Conrado  Jennifer Marten  
Accent  Viewpoint  
Mara Divis  Steve Duenas  
Amy Hardgrove  Joe Moody  
Patrick Moran  
Systems  Lab Tech.  
Harry Zembillas  Jake Peters  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST: 

Cloudy with a 40  
percent chance of  
showers and  
warmer w~h a high  
around 60.  
TEMPERATURES:  
City  H  L  
Anchorage  30  23  
Athens  64  43  
Bogota  72  45  
Boston  45  3t  
Cairo  77  59  
Chicago  43  37  
Cleveland  43  35  
Dallas  83  62  
Denver  83  52  
Detroit  42  30  
Indianapolis  56  46  
Jerusalem  64  46  
London  50  45  
Madrid  75  46  
Minneapolis  40  35  
Moscow  so  41  
Nashville  77  51  
New York  51  37  
Paris  54  34  
Philadelphia  52  40  
Prfi6Sure  Rome San Francisco  70 89  39 56  
H  L  8  i)  ~  South Tokyo  Bend  4 1 59  3 4 50  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  Washington. D.C.  54  42  

·.·:·:······ 
.·.·.·.·.·.;:··
: =:·:·:··· ·....:...:::.:;:r=·· 

.:f .··:·:·:·:·::·:·: 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Police invest~ating Winnie Mandela 


INDIANA 

• INDIAN POLIS -Rape charges are pending against two 7-year-old boys who allegedly attacked a first-grade classmate in a public school restroom."It is hard to believe, isn't it?" said Gary Chavers, a deputy prosecutor who heads juvenile investigations. Authorities believe the incident is the first involving suspects so young. "I think our youngest was a 10-year­old charged a couple of months ago with rape," Chavers said. The alleged attack occurred during school hours March 26 at a school in a working-class neighborhood on the city's east side. 

OF INTEREST 

•The 
USA has been posted in Career and Placement Services to aid '92 grads hunt for an apartment/house­mate. 

•Help 
is needed for the World Hunger Coalition Easter Foodbaskets. Come to the Center for Social Concerns at 


11:30 a.m. if you want to pick up the food, at 1p.m. if you want to help sort the food, or at 4:30 p.m. (with a car if possible) if you want to help deliver to families in South Bend. 
•International folk dancing and live music will continue Cultural Awareness Week at Saint Mary's. Dalloway's Coffeehouse will host dances from Greece, 'TUrkey, Bulgaria, South Africa and Wales, along with live Spanish Guitar at 8:15p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 14 VOLUME IN SHARES 

~~~~DEX 4­

277,726,720 -ur 3.15 S&P COMPOSITE 412.39 .. 6.31 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,306.13 {} 36.23 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD-{} $ .30 to $339.50oz. 
SILVER-.@-1.5¢ to $4.108oz. 

CAMPUS NO srofessor named Fellow 
SMC 1992-3 elections announced 
•NOTRE 
DAME-The results of the Saint Mary's resi­dence hall association election for the executive otlices of the 1992-3 school year were announced. Junior Karen Fordham was elected President, junior Jessica Trame was elected vice-president, sophomore Mary Beth Lukas was elected treasurer, and junior Sheri Goessling was elected secretary. All candidates ran unopposed. 

•A 
second NO authors luncheon will be presented on Thursday, April 16, at noon in the University Club. 

•Antostal 
TQFTC sign-ups will be this week for events during the week of 21-26 April. On campus sign-ups are in dorms and off-campus students can sign-up in LaFortune during lunch. Great prizes at each event and grand prize of $250 gift certificate for winning male and female dorms. 

•Antostal 
helpers needed for Simon Sez Game on Friday April 24 from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the SUB office today until Wednesday April 22. Organizational meeting Wednesday April 22 at 9 p.m. in SUB. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1907: Japanese troops completed their evacuation from Manchuria, turning it over to the Chinese. 

• 
In 1925: Lucille Atcherson, the first woman to fill a dip.lomatic post, was assigned to a legation at Berne, Switzerland. 

• 
I~ 1966: Paul Parkman and Harry Myer developed a vaccme for rubella. 

• 
In 1981: Washington Post reporter Janet Cooke returned her Pulitzer Prize when it was revealed that her article on an eight-year-old heroin addict was fabricated. 

• 
In 1989: Students in Beijing launched a series of pro­democracy protests upon the death of former Communist Party leader Hu Yaobang. 


Wednesday, April 15, 1992 

New SMC officers plan changesfornextyear 
By KIM ST. CLAIR Together with Student Affairs, 
News Writer she has already changed the 
process for choosing the 
academic council, which is a 

Saint Mary's student body of­group of students selected to ficers are ready to make act as a liaison between the changes in student government students and faculty in their as they officially take over their department. positions tonight at the Board of There have been problems in Governance meeting. the past when students were 
The new officers, Tina chosen by the faculty, Wilkinson Carrara, student body presi­said. "We wanted to try a year dent, Mary Beth Wilkinson, of elections to make it more vice-president for Academic democratic." Affairs, and Julie McCormick, This year the faculty nomi­vice-president of Student nated candidates for the stu­Affairs, are excited to begin dents to vote from,said working toward a successful Wilkinson. The overall re­1992-93 school year. sponse was positive, she added. 
"Our mission is to rebuild the Wilkinson said she also wants pride at Saint Mary's," said to improve faculty and student Carrara, "we're starting to relations, specifically through crack the eggshell." social functions within the de­
Carrara said she wants to partments. make students aware of the "My goal is to unify the stu­structure of student govern­dents on campus, and incorpo­ment and propose that student rate the faculty in activities," body and class elections be held McCormick said. separately, therefore allowing issues to be discussed more She said she hopes a student­thoroughly. faculty picnic and volleyball or 
Wilkinson said, "We're softball game in the fall and an working toward congruency all school dance and variety between students in their de­show in the spring will generate partments." this kind of unity. 
Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
NOTRE DAME FOREST CAMPAIGN 
/Jcginning -EART/1 DAY -April 22 
Why? for "UNLESS"... 
11 L'Nl.ESS someone like you carl'S a whole awful lot, rwr/ri11K is going to get hetter. 
II '.1 1101. 
'So ... 
Cmch! calfs the Once-fer. lie leis something fall. "lr "s o Trt!f!ula Seed. fr 's !he last one of all! lou 're in charge of the last of !he Truffula Seeds. ,1ml Truffula Trees are what e1•errone needs. Plant a new Truffula. Treat it wirh care. 
Gire if clean water.  And feed if fresh air.  
r;ROW A FOREST.  Protect ir from axes that hack.  
Thl'fl rhe l.orax  

and all of his friends mar come back.'" 
(A Tribute to Dr. Seuss and our Trees) 
(Sponsored by the Center for Cil-il and Human Rights and Global ReLea_f) 

------~---------­
The Observe1r 


The Social Justice 
atithe law school their. second Olympics for . from the Salvatiori''Army's Before-and-After-School Programs today at 3 p.m. in the Law School Quad. 
" e-eating ~o!lt~ 
J,.,,.,.,,..,c·tn<'"', water ballo race and tug-of-war will be some of the crazy games in which the children can partieipate," sai(.i Frank Kr:os, chairman of Spring The, 
Before-and-AJ[UtJr-~cuo• 


Student Summer EmPloYees 
Educational Media is searching for 
Energetic, Hardworking, Responsible 
students to work Summer 5eeeion until Graduation 
'93, '94, or '951 Will be trained on AudioNisual needs for a plethora of duties including: Set-Up of Equipment on Campus and Training in the new DeBartolo classroom building. 
Please apply at Room 9, Lower Level in the CCE Bldg. Monday-Friday 8:30 am to 12:00 pm and 1:30 pm to 4:00 pm 
By April 24, 1992 
"l 
page3 

Salaries stay same for SMC staff, faculty 
By JILL HOTEK News Writer 
No salary or wage increases were issued for next year's Saint Mary's faculty or staff, according to Dan Osberger, Vice President of Fiscal Affairs. 
One reason for the salary freeze was the projection of lower enrollment for the up­coming year, he said. 
"The revenues of Saint Mary's are dependent on the enrollment levels," said Osberger. 
He said the projected enroll­ment level for Saint Mary's is lower than that of previous years due to a smaller number of 18-year-olds in society. 
Rather than lower Saint Mary's admissions requirements to increase enrollment and revenues, Saint Mary's has chosen to maintain its high academic standards and continue admitting only qualified applicants, according to Osberger. 
Osberger said that the fac­ulty and staff have been told of the salary freezes and how they will affect their contracts. 
Over the past several weeks, the faculty has voted in support of a one year salary freeze for all faculty, said Tom Parisi, Chair of the Psychology Department and President of the Faculty Assembly. 
"The faculty came to the agreement that due to the nationwide economic recession, it recommended to the college not to take salary increases for 
next year." he said. 
lver Get Somebody 

page 4 
Speakers 
continued from page 1 
American Institute for Public Service. 
He is a also a member of the general council of the International Federation of Catholic Universities, the Bishops/Presidents Committee of the U.S. Catholic Conference and the board of directors or the Sister Thea Black Catholic Education Foundation. 
Welch, who will receive the Saint Mary's President's Medal, graduated magna cum laude from Saint Mary's in 1956 with 
Flood 
continued from page 1 
nals were blacked out. 
"People are coming to work, 
finding that their building is 
closed and going home," said 
Anthony Coffman, who runs a 
Loop newspaper stand. "We 
closed at six yesterday and 
we'll probably close earlier to­
day." 
City workers and engineers 
continued to pour concrete into 
the river at the site of the leak, 
which was marked by a 
whirlpool Monday when the 
leak was at its worst. 
Others worked to drill a shaft 
that would drain water from 
the tunnels into a huge new 
storm drain that lies some 240 
feet below the surface. The 
drilling could take a week, of­
ficials said. 
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, closed for much of Monday, traded on a limited basis Tuesday. The Chicago Board of Trade was closed for a second day. 
Among the buildings closed 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
the continuance of intercollegiate competition on a national level." 
Alumni sophomore Steve Hank presented the HPC with a design for "The Shirt," asking for support from the council to put the shirt into production. 
The council agreed, and profits from the shirt are ex­pected to double the HPC budget. 
Knott Hall junior Julie Bradley asked for hall 
DIPPING IS FOR DIPS. 
DON'T USE SNUFF OR CHEWING TOBACCO 
IAMERICAN 
f~~ 
Apr. 18-19 1 992 
HOLIDAY SPECIAL 
EA.3TER HOLIDA-Y 2-People --2 Nights: $39.95 in.cl .1des &:tster Brunch Let us accc mmodatc your family . and guests 2 night m~nimum stay. $6 add'l per person (price does not inc. taxes) 
52757 U. S. 31 NORTH 
OFFER EXPIRES 
1·2&-90 277-051 0 

Maureen Welch 
a bachelor of science degree in elementary education. 
She currently chairs the 
Monday as a precaution were 
the 110-story Sears Tower, the 
world's tallest building, and the 
80-story Amoco Building; both 
reopened Tuesday. 
Gov. Jim Edgar planned to 
declare a state disaster area 
within the city, the first step 
toward asking for federal relief 
assistance, said Tom 
Zimmerman, spokesman for the 
Illinois Emergency Management 
Agency. 
Some businesses used their 
own generators to try to keep 
the doors open. 
"We worked till 2 in the 
morning to make sure we could 
open," said Ed Flor, a mainte­
nance worker for a Walgreen's 
drug store in the Loop, which 
opened with a few dim lights 
and one functioning cash regis­
ter. 
But for tens of thousands of 
downtown workers, the flooding 
meant one more unscheduled 
day off. 
"When you're forced into having a day off, it's not nearly as much fun as taking vaca­tion," said Peter Shaft, a clinical social worker who missed appointments with 13 patients 
support for the Notre Dame celebration of the SOOth anniversary of the landing of Christopher Columbus next fall. The HPC agreed to provide monetary support for the planned events. 
Cliff Erickson will be per­forming at the senior bar on April 25 to raise funds for a homeless shelter, announced HPC executive coordinator Maureen Connelly. 
Dorms also agreed to collect money and toiletries for the homeless in their dorms. The HPC hopes to raise homeless awareness and support. 
The Observer 

Madeleva Society, comprised of the College's most prominent benefactors. She also is in­volved with Volunteers in Teaching Alternatives (VITA) in Bucks County, PA. 
Lynch, the 1992 valedictorian, is the co-founder and co-chair of the Saint Mary's Women's Alliance, and is the co-chair for the Saint Mary's Notre Dame Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) organiza­tion. 
After graduation, she plans to become involved with women's social and economic issues at the grass-roots level. 
over two days. 

One small ray of sunshine came from the Internal Revenue Service, which gave Chicago taxpayers affected by the flood a week's extension on the federal April 15 filing deadline. Taxpayers were advised to write "Chicago flood" at the top of their return to alert examiners. 
"We will accept the honor of the taxpayer signing the re­turn," IRS spokesman Mike McGrail said. 
Officials refused to speculate on just what caused the leak, but Daley acknowledged that city officials were aware of the problem days, maybe even weeks before Monday. 
"Individuals ' did drop the ball," Daley said angrily at a late-night news conference. He promised that those responsible would be held accountable. 
Many of the people the Daley administration planned to quiz were busy handling the crisis, Mosena said. 

American Heart Association WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 
'r()UR LIFE 

IF YOU'RE STILL PLAYING SEGA, NE~, OR NINTENDO YOU'RE NOTHING BUT AWEENIE! 

IF YOU'RE PLAYING THE INCREDIBLY HIGH POWERED 
Ill> 
NEO.GEO SYSTEM YOU'RE AREAL HOT DOG! 

Tough talk, but think it over. Why fool around with limp, underpowered 16 bit systems when NEO•GEO~ now offers the honest, most advanced video entertainment system in the world! Fact. NEO•GEO simply out-muscles those guyli with the big names. NEO•GEO features a huge 330 meg hardware setup that delivers robust 15-channel real voice stereo sound. Unmatched graphics with over 65,000 vivid colors of amazing detail! Not to mention effects with 4-dimensional realism. Does NEO•GEO cost more than other video game systems? You bet. Does a Ferrari cost more than a Yugo? Does Prime Rib cost more than squirrel burgers? With NEO•GEO you get more than you paid for. 
It's simple. Would you rather be a cold weenie? Or a real hot dog! 


• I I I/ 1 I 1 1 
I 
1

• • • I • l'1 /I 
Wednesday, April 15, 1992 

,,.Saint Mary's professor ,__ves in good spirits 
:;.:::..::::;{: 

... e t)fi orsing the value of ·the '})rQgram,s abroad offered t·~t bo!.h Saint Mary's and 'Notre 2DaJt1e. Parashar, a professot'' of economics, stressed. that exposure to Q:iversity doesn't require an 
,, ~xpenslye trip.,".
1 

, ' . Multi-cultural means that 
•·e;vertifth~re is one different 
'"'>petsonrtouch that person, be 
With that person," be said. his six years as "incredible." 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Accent Columnist 
Please submit a 1 page personal statement and a sample column to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Wed. April 15 
To apply, please contact ]ahnellle at 239-7471. 
Parashar's experience is colored by a lifetime of travel which he summarized in his talk "Ravi Embraces the World," the second in the "We are Family" series at Saint Mary's. 
A native of Pakistan, Parashar said that he offers the emotion of his Indian her­itage and the physical warmth of Latin America. 
He said "there are all sorts of cultures within us" and everyone should seize the opportunity to discover them. 
Dabbing at his eyes periodi­cally, he assured the audience that "the tears I'm shedding today are tears of joy" not of sadness. 
He recounted that a colleague once asked him whether he had had any negative experiences at Saint Mary's. Parashar said he "cannot think of any," describ­ing the College as "a wonderful place to be," and 

-------~~--.-~. --------------~--~---~ 
Wednesday, April 15, 1992 The Observer 
Norville discusses women's roles and her own goals, experiences 
By ERIN BROWN News Writer 
Television and radio journalist Deborah Norville touched on issues ranging from women's roles as career-holders and mothers, to the media, and the current presidential campaigns during a lecture at Saint Mary's last night. 
On a more personal side, Norville talked about her goals and advances within her own life and career during her pre­sentation "Issues Facing Women." 
Norville, who currently hosts an ABC radio show from her home, said that the the show is a "free-for-all communication. People call in and talk about whatever is on their mind." 
Norville received the position shortly after her maternity leave from NBC's Today Show. 
According to Norville, many women in the media and else­where, including herself, have opened doors for women in corporate America to be viewed as productive and valuable right up until the time of their child's birth. 
Norville said that she had a great decision to make about returning to the show or staying home with her son. However, she added, she also had an opportunity that most parents don't have since she is able to 
work out of her home, and 
therefore, spend more time 
with her son. 
In regards to current gov­
ernment programs and issues 
in the upcoming elections, 
Norville stressed the impor­
tance of people's involvement in 
order to bring about change. 
"What it takes is people car­
ing," she said. "It takes you 
being involved." Norville also 
stressed to her audience the 
importance of voting in the up­
coming presidential elections in 
order to improve problems fac­
ing the country today such as 
health care, the homeless, AIDS 
and prenatal child care. 
She said, "If you don't vote, 
you're part of the problem. I 
hope you care and I hope you're 
upset." 
As a graduate of the 
University of Georgia, Norville 
noted the difference in stu­
dents' roles and opportunities 
now than when she graduated. 
She added, "My priorities 
were definitely different in col­
lege. I think now they are dif­
ferent because I think 
(students) have a much clearer 
picture of where the world is 
and what their role in the world 
is likely to be." 
She also pointed out that 
women's voice in the media is 
seldom heard because, until 
recently, it has not been 
"authoritative enough." 
Changes in the media in 
we 

These members ofour Notre Dame family will receive the Sacraments ofBaptism, Confirmation and Eucharist at the Easter Vigil 
t 
Patrick Hall Erin Montgomery Will Robinson · Jason Shaw EricZmarzly 
\ 
'TFt.e 'Easter '1/igi{ Saturcfay, Yl.pri{ 18 
10:00 p.m.. 'Basific.a of tfr.e Sacrecf J{eart 
1~1 
0MPUS 
tv\INISTRY 
America have heightened women's role and recent studies have shown that people are used to seeing men and women as broadcast anchors in equal, non-threatening environments, she said. 
She continued, "there is a certain role-model aspect of being a woman in broadcasting, or just being a woman in a professional capacity in front of people, that I think is very beneficial." 
Norville also spoke about balancing her career at NBC and her family. She said that early in her career she made many personal sacrifices and put in long hours in order to attain the success that she has achieved. 
She feels that she was very fortunate to get the opportuni­ties that she did and encour­aged the audience to put forth their full effort in any career or opportunity. 
She added that "If you don't take any risk, you don't get any reward." 


Journalist Deborah Norville lectures on the topic of "Issues Facing Women" last night at Saint Mary's. Norville is currently the host of an ABC radio show that is broadcast form her home. 
SMC junior receives scholarship 
By HEIDI DECKELMANN News Writer 
Saint Mary's College junior Delia Garcia received the Harry Truman Scholarship awarded to students pursuing a career in public service. 
Garcia is a political science and Spanish major, and the second Saint Mary's student to receive the Truman Award. Elizabeth Van Dersa,rl received the award in 1991. 
Truman scholars receive up to $30,000 for undergraduate and graduate educational ex­penses over a 4 year period. More than 1,300 students are nominated annually for the award, and only 79 awards are expected to be given this year. 
Nominees are reviewed by an independent panel consisting of public service and educational officials. Award selections are based on an extensive application process as well as personal interviews with over 200 finalists. 

Garcia was honored by independent colleges and universities as one of 30 outstanding first generation college students from the state. 
Active in both the Saint Mary's and South Bend communities, Garcia is involved with the Office of Minority, International and Non-Traditional Student Life working on workshops and outreach programs. 
She has served as a counselor for El Campo de Cultura y Cononcimiento, the College's summer program for Hispanic girls, and is a founding member of Fuerza, an organization which provides college-age role models for girls in the South Bend Hispanic community. 
Garcia also assisted with the Pauia program for gifted and talented girls. 
After graduation, she plans to study either political science or public administration. She added that she is unsure of where she will attend graduate school, but is presently looking at both University of California at Berkeley and University of Michigan. 
"I want to help the community at large, by addressing the problems of education and economic development as they affect all of us," said Garcia when asked about her ideal career goals. "In particuiar, I am concerned with the effects of these problems on the Hispanic community in the United States." 
Garcia and other recipients will be honored at an awards ceremony at the Truman Library in Independence, Missouri, following a five-day leadership and orientation program in Liberty, Missouri. 
Ifthe press didn't tell us,who would? 
SMC We Aire JFC8lmiliy Weelk continues... 
Party All Over The World 
8-12 Tonight at Dalloway's--Folkdancing & Spanish Guitar 
~---..-----~--~~-----~-----~ -~---~--~------------~---:--...----..-------------· 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, April 15, 1992 

Looking forward to next year 
Pasquerilla West sophomores Gail Carey and Kiana Peacock, left to right, study blueprints of the dorm in 
preparation for room picks. 
Largest telescope completed 
Hawaii (AP) -The mirror of the world's largest telescope, which scientists say will provide new views of how stars, galaxies and the universe Itself evolves, was completed Tuesday. 
The last of 36 half-ton hexagonal segments was lowered into place at the Keck Observatory at the 13,600-foot summit of the dormant Mauna Kea volcano on Hawaii Island. Together the segments form a 10­meter mirror surface. 
"This Is a major milestone," said Jerry Nelson, astronomy professor at the University of California 
at  Berkeley  and  the  
telescope's  principal  
designer.  

The new telescope is four times the power of the Hale Telescope on Mount Palomar in Southern California, which has been astronomy's preeminent telescope, Nelson said. 
Computers will monitor the position of each segment of the mirror and control devices capable of nudging each segment as little as less than a millionth of an inch to keep the telescope in focus and compensate for distortion, Nelson said. 
The $94 million telescope was dedicated last November with half the mirrors in place. 
Nelson and project managers will test the telescope in coming months by using it to look for cosmological information no other telescope can provide. 

Reagan's secret service probe protest episode 
WASHINGTON (API -The Secret Service started an inter­nal investigation on Tuesday to determine how an anti-nuclear protester managed to get so close to former President Reagan on a Las Vegas stage. 
The agency was not anxious to talk about the Monday inci­dent. The protester rushed on to the stage where Reagan was speaking and smashed a glass statuette, showering the former president with glass. 
"We are reviewing the whole incident," said Bill Burch, a Secret Service spokesman. "We don't have an answer on how it happened." 
Burch said the service is talking with people involved in planning for Reagan's speech to the National Association of Broadcasters -both from the agency's standpoint and from the host committee's -and to people who were actually working during the incident. 
Reagan still gets Secret Service protection as do former presidents Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter. Richard Nixon gave up his federal bodyguards in 1985, saying it was no longer appropriate for taxpayers to bear the cost, $3 million that year. He hired private protec­tion. 
Among others accorded Secret Service protection are major candidates for president, some Cabinet officers, members of the president's family, and visiting heads of state. 
On Monday, according to ac­counts, people employed by a private security service col­lected admission tickets to the Reagan appearance, but they left as soon as the audience was in the hall. 
The protester, identified by authorities as Richard Springer, 41, of Arcata, Calif., walked unimpeded along the side of the room, up to the stage. He appeared to walk toward the back of the stage, veered left and rushed toward Reagan, smashing the statuette the former president had just received. 
Only then did three security agents come from each side of the stage. One group hustled Reagan off, the others tackled Springer, knocked him into the podium, and got him off on the other side. 
The plainclothed Secret Service agents have protected presidents since William McKinley's assassination in 1901. They only began shielding presidential candidates in 1968 after Robert Kennedy was murdered in Los Angeles. 

Iraq destroys five buildings at nuclear plant 
VIENNA, Austria (AP) -Iraq, acting under international supervision, destroyed five buildings and rendered a sixth harmless at the al-Atheer nu­clear complex outside Baghdad, 
U.N. officials said Tuesday. 
Iraqi teams also demolished 90 percent of the nuclear-re­lated equipment at the al­Atheer complex under supervi­sion of experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency, spokesman David Kyd reported from the agency's Vienna headquarters. 
"Four of five buildings were detonated with dynamite," said Kyd. "One building of the four took over one ton of dynamite to destroy. The fifth building was destroyed by cutting it at the level of the foundation." 
He said another building "was sealed off by pouring 400 cubic meters of concrete into it because it was too tough" to detonate. 
The agency last month ordered destruction of the al­Atheer complex on the Euphrates River 40 miles southwest of Baghdad, despite Iraqi statements that the facility served purely civilian purposes. 
Agency officials estimate Iraq was one to three years away from industrial-scale produc­tion of enriched uranium for nuclear bombs. 
The order to destroy al­Atheer marked another step in 
U.N. moves to get Baghdad to meet the terms of the Gulf War cease-fire by destroying its chemical weapons, ballistic missiles and nuclear facilities. 

Hundreds of Iraqis have been working under the U.N. team's supervision, Kyd said. 
"But many of them are un­happy at the site where they worked, seeing things go up in smoke," he said. 
Five or six agency inspectors were at the al-Atheer complex watching up to 1,000 Iraqis do the demolition work, Kyd said. The rest of the 26-man U.N. team was visiting 16 locations in Iraq. 
The inspectors were sched­uled to complete their mission to Iraq on Wednesday. 
Initial demolition efforts fo­cused on a large metallurgical building during the current visit. Most of the other buildings are much smaller. 
"Some of the bunkers used for explosives testing are made of one meter (yard) thick rein­forced concrete, and rather than demolish them, because this is impractical, we will fill them with concrete to render them harmless," Kyd said by telephone. 
"We also have demolished equipment -furnaces, ma­chine-tools and isostatic presses for shaping highly explosive charges for warheads -and about 90 percent of that work is finished," he said. 

NOTICE TO MAY GRADUATES 
Have you borrowed $$$ to finance your Notre Dame education? Ifyes, you must follow these instructions. 
As part of the graduation process, federal regulations REQUIRE all students who have borrowed from the Stafford Loan Program and the Supplemental Loan for Students (SLS) to attend an EXIT INTERVIEW before leaving the University. The exit interview will review your rights and responsibilities for repaying your loan(s), deferment options, and loan consolidation benefits. 
For your convenience, we have scheduled the following exit interview sessions: 
Monday, April 13th; Tuesday, April 14th; Wednesday, April 15th LaFortune, Notre Dame Room 
11:00-11:30 am  12:30-1:00pm  
11:45-12:15 pm  1:15-1:45pm  
Wednesday, April 15th  Hesburgh Library, Auditorium  

6:30-7:00 pm 7:15-7:45 pm 8:00-8:30 pm 
To prepare for the exit interview, bring the name of your Iender(s) and the total amount of your Stafford and SLS borrowing while at Notre Dame. If you need assistance gathering this information, contact the Notre Dame Office of Financial Aid. Please allow one day for processing. 
Wednesday, April 15, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Accrediting agency allowed to keep evaluating colleges 

WASHINGTON (AP) Education Secretary Lamar Alexander said Tuesday he will renew the authority of an edu­cational accrediting agency that he earlier criticized for al­legedly discriminating against whites by requiring racial di­versity on campus. 
Alexander notified the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools that its Commission on Higher Education may continue to evaluate colleges for a four-year period, instead of the maximum five years. But he said officials must make annual reports on any negative evaluations based on the group's controversial "diversity standard." 
The National Advisory Committee on Accreditation and Institutional Eligibility had recommended in February that Alexander take the action. 
Leon Goldstein, commission chairman, said Alexander's ac­tion affirmed the group's "reputation for fairness and excellence in seeking to insure that our institutions provide the highest quality education possible for their students." 
"We continue to believe, as we've said all along, diversity is an appropriate standard for an accrediting body to have," said Robert Atwell, president of the American Council on Education, the umbrella group for colleges and universities. 

To be eligible for federal fi­nancial aid, colleges and uni­versities must be accredited by one of six regional accrediting agencies. Middle States oper­ates in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the VIrgin Islands. 
Accrediting agencies usually look at the number of books in the library, the degrees held by faculty members, laboratory equipment available to science students and similar factors in deciding whether a college should be accredited. 
But Middle States· added the diversity standard so that eval­uation teams could look at the racial and ethnic diversity of a college's faculty, student body and governing board; About two years ago, it used this standard to threaten to with­hold accreditation from Bernard Baruch College of the City University of New York and Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia. Both institutions subsequently were accredited. 
-~~~~~'"~~~~~~'"~~~~~'"~'"~I
~ 
~ 
~

1 ~ Are you creative, hard 
~ 

~ working and looking for a 
~ 
I ~ challenge? 
~ 

~ If so, the 92-93 Dome I 
1 jbf

~ h:as a o ·or you! 
~ 

~ p iti il bl f •
~ os · ons ava ·a e or . 
~ Academics Editor ~ Groups Editor
I 
Seniors EditorI Sports Editor 
~ Student Life Editor ~ Year In Review Editor
~ 
~ Photographers ~ Editor Assistants
I 
General Staff 

Applications available in the Student Activities Office 315 Lafortune. 

~ Applications due Thursday, April 23. 
I ~ 
~ Questions? Call Anne Ouellette x1339 ~ or Bill Mowle x2065 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ 
I~ 
~ 
II
~ 
~ 
I~ I 
~ 
I ~ 
I ~ 
§1 
~ 
~ ~ 
I
~ 

Helmsley will serve prison time 
NEW YORK (AP)-Former hotel queen Leona Helmsley said Tuesday she was prepared to serve the four-year prison term she received for tax eva­sion now that an appeals court upheld it. 
Mrs. Helmsley had been ordered to report on Wednesday -the deadline for filing federal income tax re­turns -to a federal prison hospital in Kentucky. 
"I accept the judgment, and I'm prepared to abide by the law," Mrs. Helmsley said. 
Earlier Tuesday, the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals unan­imously rejected arguments from Mrs. Helmsley's lawyers that the sentence should be re­versed. 
The lawyers said the "dramatic change" in her health since she was sentenced in 1989 has made it a virtual life sentence. Her ailments in­clude hardening of the arteries and severe high blood pressure. 
"We're arguing not that the original sentence was wrong, but that circumstances have changed," said defense attor­ney Alan Dershowitz. He asked the appeals court to let Mrs. Helmsley do community service work instead of going to jail. 
But prosecutors argued that the 71-year-old hotel queen re­mains an active woman and let­ting her avoid prison would "make a mockery of the law." 
"The end has come," assis­tant U.S. attorney Mark Hellerer said. 
Defense lawyers said no time was set for her surrender. Convicts generally are required to report during regular busi­ness hours. They must arrange their own transportation to the prison. 
"Mrs. Helmsley is very upset, obviously, about the prospect of going to jail and she is coping," Dershowitz told reporters later. 
Mrs. Helmsley was convicted in 1989 of evading $1.7 million in taxes by billing personal ex­penses, such as renovations on a mansion in Greenwich, Conn., to companies the Helmsleys owned. 
A former housekeeper testi­fied that Mrs. Helmsley told her, "Only the little people pay taxes." Mrs. Helmsley denied saying that. 



page 8 The Observer Wednesday, April 15, 1992 
Alaska, Exxon settle dispute over oil royalties for millions 
Poverty reported rising among younger families 
WASIIfNGTON (AP) -The American dream may be vanishing for young families with children as they struggle to build a future and avoid the poverty becoming rampant among them, a Children's Defense Fund report said Tuesday. 
Families headed by someone under 30 saw their inflation­adjusted median income drop by 32 percent between 1973 and 1990, while poverty among this group soared from 20 per­cent to 40 pPrcent over the pe­riod, said the report. 
In comparison. median in­come dropped 6 percent for older families and rose 11 per­cent for families without chil­dren over the period, the report said. 
"The implicit message to many young Americans is frighteningly clear: Bearing and raising children may no longer be compatible with active pur­suit of the American dream." said the report. "No society can convey this message for long if it hopes to survive and pros­per." 
The report, "Vanishing Dreams: The Economic Plight of America's Young Families," says many young families have been stymied in their struggle to establish a career and get a foothold in the job and housing markets. 
But these families are vital to the future of the country, since most children spend at least part of their lives, and their most formative years, in a young family, the report said. 
Marian Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund, in a luncheon address at the National Press Club, said, "It's time for the president, Congress and more of our governors to be honest with the American people about the problems facing our economy and our poor families and stop picking on small children." 
The report called for President Bush and Congress to extend Medicaid coverage to all low-income children and preg­nant women and to boost an­nual spending for Head Start, the preschool education pro­gram for poor children, from $1.4 billion currently to $3.5 billion. 

Starving Sudanese radio for help; isolated by government offensive 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) -The people in Akobo, Sudan, iso­lated by a government offensive against Sudanese rebels, are starving to death and perplexed by the world's indifference, said radio messages from the town released Tuesday. 
"Twenty-three people starved yesterday," the Rev. John Chol said in a message to the Nairobi office of his church-led relief organization. 
"Everybody is weak and waiting to die. They look for wild fruits but it is finished. We have no cattle left. We ate all of them. We are hearing radio reports about U.N. and Red Cross helping Ethiopia and Somalia. Why not Akobo? 
"We don't know if we will be on radio next week. It depends on God's will. Although people are dying, we hope that some will remain," Chol said, finish­ing last Friday's message. 
Chol, a Sudanese Presbyterian minister, is the relief coordinator in Akobo for the Association of Christ-ian Resource Organizations Serving Sudan. 
The group runs church-oper· ated relief programs in rebel­held villages throughout south­ern Sudan and operates a radio network through churches there. Chol's plea was distributed to news agencies in Nairobi to publicize a disaster that threatens hundreds of thousands of people with starvation, but has failed to rouse world concern. 
In Akobo alone, more than 250 people starved to death in the past few weeks, said Bill Lowrey, an official of the asso­ciation in Nairobi. 
Most of the victims were chil­dren. 
Akobo has received no relief food since the beginning of March, when the government in Khartoum grounded relief flights to southern Sudan as it launched a major offensive against rebels who control most of the region. 
No locally grown food is available because of drought, war and lack of seeds. 
The situation repeats itself in town after town in Sudan's vast south. 
"The No. 1 thing to do now is to urge the government to al­low humanitarian flights so civilians are not starved to death for government policy," Lowrey said in an interview. 
Few roads run through the undeveloped region. Truck convoys of relief food can travel only during the latter stages of the dry season, leaving most of southern Sudan accessible only by air. 
"There is no hope for these people if there are no flighl'>," said Lowrey. 
About 45,000 people live in Akobo, including about 6,500 Sudanese who spent weeks with insufficient food trekking 100 miles there from Pochala, which fell to government forces last month. 
Akobo, 600 miles southeast of Khartoum, sits on the Akobo River, which marks Sudan's border with Ethiopia. 
The Sudan People's Liberation Army took up arms in 1983 against Sudan's Muslim-dominated government seeking greater autonomy for the predominantly Christian and animist south. 
JUNEAU. Alaska (AP) ­Exxon Corp. will pay the state of Alaska $128 million to settle a long standing lawsuit over back oil royalties and interest, lawyers for both sides an­nounced Tuesday. 
The settlenwnt, expected to be signed by Wednesday, came as jurors were being select~d !'or what was llXpected to be a six-month trial in state Superior Court. It ended a dispute that originally accused more than a dozen oil companies of undervaluing North Slope crude. 
Lava destroys houses outside Sicilian village 
ZAFFERANA InNEA, Sicily (AP) -Lava from Mount Etna flattened two deserted farm­houses Tuesday outside this village on the slopes of Europe's most active volcano. By evening, however. the lava front appeared to have slowed to a halt. 
"The situation appears now to be less dramatic," said Nicola Capria, the civil protec­tion minister. 
"But we must remember that . . . the monster is extremely strong." 
Civil defense officials said in­habited houses were not im­mediately threatened and de­layed evacuating any of the 7,000 villagers from the 10,500-foot-high volcano. 
Late Tuesday, military offi­cials blasted the lava with about 400 pounds of explo­sives. They said the explosion 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant Pizza-Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 
Carry out or Dine in 
52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center llAM-lOPM (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
smashed the side of a tunnel formed by lava that had fun­nelled the smoking black liquid toward the village. 
The soldiers conducted a similar blast a day earlier. That explosion apparently weakened the walls of a second lava tunnel, higher up 
on  the  mountain,  that  
collapsed Tuesday.  
Volcanologists  said  the  

stream then slowed, split into two branches and slowed to a virtual halt about a half-mile from the village after overflowing the 36-foot-high barrier built at the edge of town. 
Franco Barberi, a volcanolo· gist who has been supervising attempts to slow the lava's flow, said it was not certain the lava would reach Zafferana. 
Exxon and state attorneys informed Judge Walter Carpeneti-of the settlement. He said he would retain the jury in case the agreement falls through. 
The state originally sought $170 million from Exxon, but lowered the claim to $97 million late last yfiar after a judge ruled that the company could use its own figures to determine the cost of transporting the oil, said Wilson Condon, the state's lead lawyer. 
The state's royalty is deter­mined after deducting trans­portation costs from the oil's market price. 

The lawsuit covered 1977 to 1986, but the settlement will also cover royalty payments through 1991, and establish a new formula for future royalty payments, Condon said. The $128 million is to be paid in a lump sum by April 30. 
Negotiations over the formula prevented an earlier settlement, Attorney General Charles Cole said. 
After Tuesday's hearing, Cole said the imminent trial 
HALF OFTHE PEOPLE WHO READTHISAD WON1GETINm LAWSCHOOL. 
Here's a surprise lesl of your molh skills. Divide 95,000 low school oppliconls inlo 44,000 openings. Now you realize whyil's so imporlonl Ia lake the Ror <.in lSAT Preparation course. 
Firsl you'lltoke a free diognosf,, test. Then we'll work wilh you in 
small. personalized 

RONKIN.GET IN:· ~~:c;chool of their
cla55es. You'll hove free lSAl•GMAT•GRE•MCAl•TE f PREPARATION AND APPliCATION ASSISfANCE 
THE OFFER: RESERVE BY MAY 15. SAVE $225. 
5£1uth Bend 273-1866 
prompted Exxon to settle. 

"It is a relief indeed," he said. "I think it's a highly satisfactory resolution." 
Jury selection began Monday, and the first part of the trial was set to begin Tuesday morning. The judge was to de­cide how Exxon's royalty-lease contract should be interpreted. The jury later would have con­sidered whether Exxon under­valued the oil. 
Exxon officials declined to comment on the settlement. 
access lo our computers and study programs. Plus, v..e offer the lwai:Joy lSAT Intensive·Study Clinic the losl week before the exam. 
Reserve your place in our lSATcourse by May 15 and we'll include lhe $225 clinic for free. Call Ronkin lodoy and find oul how lhe 
beHer half ge~ inlo lhe 
The other companies that were named in the lawsuit had settled earlier, paying more than $500 million to the state, Deputy Attorney General Bruce Botelho said. Alaska originally alleged the companies short­changed the treasury by $902 million. 
The largest payment came in 1990 when Atlantic Hichfield Co. settled its $319 million claim for $287 million. Mobil Corp. recently settled its $20.4 million claim for $10 million, the state announced Monday. 
~------------------------------------------------.. ·~ · t' I ~ o ~ 'l r
• • \!lli tJ 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 15, 1992 page 9 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .......•...•.......... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ........•........• Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .....•..••••Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabo r Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Dear Editor: 
We, the Church of Loretto Renovation Committee, would !like to respond to the article published in the Inside Column of The Observer on Monday, March 30, entitled "Only we can save Church of Loretto." The article contained several inaccuracies. We would like to respond to the most serious: 
Inaccuracy #1: 
The renovation plans were made without consultation. Correction: From the beginning, the 
Church of Loretto Renovation Committee has been concerned about obtaining input regarding the renovation, particularly from the Sisters (to whom the Church belongs) and from those who regularly worship in the Church of Loretto. 
One of our first acts as a Committee was to send out a questionnaire to all Sisters to determine what was most im­portant to them in the current Church and what they would like to see changed. 
We have sent educational materials to all sisters to stimulate discussion in local communities about the renovation and invited their ideas and comments. Many letters were received from local communities and individual sisters. Their ideas were incorporated into the planning. 
We have had a series of edu­cational programs and open forums regarding the renova­tion for Sisters in the Michiana 
DOONESBURY 
YOUCJW NO PROBteMOl 
REAU-Y IMAMAN f1tffOI?Irl OF TH& Ct07H! 

A~NG \
C£REM.M: 
Slf)? 
area and those who worship in the Church of Loretto. These programs occurred in Advent, 1990; Lent, 1991 and May­June, 1991. One of these was an open forum with the architects and our liturgical consultant. 
During the Sesquicentennial celebration of the Congregation in July, 1991, we had another open forum for all Sisters with the architect and liturgical consultant, at which time the initial renovation plans were dis­cussed. About 200 people at­tended. 
The Committee has also reached out to the Saint Mary's Community. Since September, written materials regarding the renovation have been available. In October, Sister Mary Turgi met with the Saint Mary's College Student Government to discuss the renovation plans. As a result of this meeting, an open forum for students was held in November, 1991. 
A second informational ses­sion for all members of the Saint Mary's College community was held in February. The purposes of these meetings were two-fold: to provide information about the reasons for the renovation and the details of the plan; and to respond to questions and concerns of the broader campus community. 
Involvement of the worship­ping community has been and continues to be very important. Most recently, those who worship in the Church of Loretto were asked to assist in the selection of chairs. In addition to consultation with the worship­ping community, the Committee has consulted with at least four liturgists and the diocesan Art and Environment 
1
Committee. 
Inaccuracy #2: The Bishop has formed a commission to study the renovation. 
Correction: 
The Diocese of Fort Wayne­South Bend has, as do most dioceses, a standing committee whose purpose is to advise parishes and other groups involved in church building or renovation projects. From the beginning of this project, this Art and Environment (A & E) Committee has known of the Congregation's desire to reno­vate the Church. 
There was dialogue with members of the A & E Committee before the Renovation Committee was formed in September, 1990. Once we had the architect's schematic design, we 

voluntarily submitted  our  
plans  for  its  advice  and  
reactions.  

The A & E Committee re­sponded that it was in support of our plan to renovate the Church and made several sug­gestions regarding details. All of these have been carefully considered and some adjust­ments have been made in re­sponse to their suggestions. 
The Renovation Committee is in continuing dialogue with the Diocesan Office of Worship and the A & E Committee. One of the A & E Committee members, Father Richard Conyers, provided a pre­renovation liturgical audit of the Church and conducted part of the educational programming regarding the renovation. 
Inaccuracy #3: Sister Mary Turgi is singlehandedly responsible for the renovation. 
Correction: 
Recommendations regarding the renovation have been made by the architect, Mr. Evans Woollen, the liturgical con§"ultant, Dr. .Marchita Mauck, and a 15-member Committee comprised of Sisters of the Holy Cross and lay persons, including faculty and administrative staff from Saint Mary's College. Final decisions have been made by the president of the Congregation, Sister M. Thomas More, CSC, and the General Council of the Congregation. 
Consultation and dialogue has continually shaped the Committee's recommendations and the General Council'.s decisions with regard to major concerns. Here are some examples: 
We will be retaining the ma­jority of the mosaic tiles. And, the architectural revisions will make them even more of a focal point than they are now. 
We will be preserving the painted glass window depicting the Annunciation, giving it a place of honor above the main entrance doors of the Church. 
We will be placing the statue of Mary in a prominent place in the narthex area of the Church. 
We are making every effort to carefully relocate the remaining statues, pews and painted glass windows. 
In our role as leaders and educators, we are responsible for making extremely difficult decisions. There are very real physical and liturgical problems with the existing Church that need to be addressed. We have consulted with those who worship in the Church of Loretto and have listened to the concerns expressed. We've made the best decisions we could given the physical and liturgical needs of the space. 
Joanne Mullin CSC Comm. Specialist Sisters of the Holy Cross 
AprilS, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
BACK IN TH£ '60s, YOUCOUWGer A ORAfl/?eFti?A1lNTIF'!Wta:R& 
IN7H8Ct/5R6Y. SOISCNT/N$3 7lJ 7HI5 /rfA/t--ORaR MINI5TRY... 
FOUR. f)AYS LAT&R.. I 60T8/lCJ<. A C£1<17FICATe 5AYIN6I WAS 
A RJU-Y OR£¥1/NWMIN157l!R. IN TH& CHRISTIAN OR/?&!< OF IMMACUL.A7l3 PACIP/911. 

'To be a leader of men isn't for learned men, or honest men, but for the ignorant and vile.' 
Aristophanes 
Get to the point, submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Viewpoint
page 10 Wednesday, April 15, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Questions unanswered by Athletic Department 
Dear Editor: ating a Varsity Wrestling team. 
As a former member of Notre To my knowledge, no other Dame Wrestling, I am disgusted varsity team is similarly sup­with the Athletic Department's ported. disbanding of the team. At 5% interest, the yearly in­Wrestling is a sport that teaches come is $150,000. The NCAA discipline, courage, de­limits the number of wrestling termination, self-respect, and scholarships to 9. 9 per team. 

but Mr. Rosenthal rejected the apparently see fit now to con­Administration, and the Alumni respect for one's opponent like Since each scholarship at Notre plan. Also, if money and fair­trol the money as they wish. I Association to understand some no other. These are some of the Dame is roughly equivalent to ness to all involved in athletics am no lawyer, but it is not ob­of the issues involved in this many qualities upon which the $18,000 when tuition, room was truly a concern of Mr. vious to me that this action is action. In the disbanding of University of Notre Dame was and board, and all other fees 
Rosenthal and the Athletic legal. Therefore, I believe that Notre Dame Wrestling, the founded. I believe that the are included, the endowment Department in their decisions, Mr. Rosenthal and the Athletic Athletic Department has left 
Notre Dame community as a covers 84% of the scholarship 

they could have cut small por­Department owe the many ethical questions with re­whole has an interest in sup­expenses. The Athletic 
tions of money from all varsity Administration, the Alumni, gard to its business practicesporting a program such as this. Department is only responsible 
sports rather than completely and the students a full disclo­and the treatment of its em­What troubles me most about for the other 16%, the coaches' 
destroy one. For these reasons, sure of the nature of this en­ployees unanswered. I hope the the recent disbanding of the salaries, and traveling ex­I cannot believe that money is a dowment, of whom the donor Administration will see fit to team are the 'reasons' that Mr. penses. factor. If Notre Dame's lucra­gave the power of control, and make the Athletic DepartmentRosenthal and the Athletic tive Athletic Department cannot of what the money will be used answer those questions. Department have given for cut­As for traveling expenses, support such a low cost sport, for in the future. I also hope the Notre Dame 
ting the program. I don't see most away matches are within how do other school's manage? community will see fit to come truth in any of them. The rea­the Midwest at places like Another issue in this case is The Athletic Department is to the aid of the Notre Dame son why I'm writing this letter Indiana, Michigan State, and 

the manner in which the now trying to deny that the en­Wrestling team. It is a group of is to inform the Administration, Illinois. Since the team only Athletic Department has treated dowment exists, but they can't individuals who have proudlythe Alumni Association, and the takes 10 athletes on the road, 
Coach Stewart and Coach have it both ways. Either they carried our University's name in Notre Dame Student Body of the traveling expenses are 
McCann. Six or seven years ago deceived both coaches during the sport of collegiate wrestling. some of the facts surrounding minimal compared to other 
during their interviews for the their interview process with a It may be too late to save Notre this case. My information varsity sports which travel far­
Wrestling coaching positions, false promise, or they are de­Dame Wrestling, I just hope it's comes primarily from Assistant ther and more often with more 
both Coach McCann and Coach ceiving us all now when they not too late to save the next Coach Rick Stewart and Head people. 
Stewart were t9Id that the claim that no money exists. If a victim of Rosenthal's so-called Coach Fran McCann. In addition to all this, Coach 
endowment would secure the full disclosure of this matter is budget axe. Who will be next if The first matter that I would McCann produced a revised 
future of their program and not made to Administration we don't act now, Soccer, like to address is the rumor that plan to cut back Wrestling's their jobs. With Mr. O'Connor officials, I hope those officials Tennis, Swimming, Volleyball, the team was cut to save 1992-93 budget to a total of 
committed to the support of will make an investigation of Lacrosse? I hope that is a money. This is not true. Some about $140,000. The endow­
wrestling, the program seemed the Athletic Department's fi­question that will never be an­years ago, Mr. William ment would have covered 100% 
secure, indeed. nancial dealings. swered. 
O'Connor gave the University of these costs and hence next 

Last year, however, our patron In conclusion, I sincerely hope Kevin Costello an endowment of $3,000,000 to season would not have cost the 
passed away. Mr. Rosenthal that this letter has assisted the Off-campusbe used for the purpose of ere-Athletic Department a dime, and the Athletic Department Student Body, the April14,1992 

$3 million was the price for the wrestlers' dreams 
Dear Editor: Does this statement mean that programs, the winners of the letic department. With the dis­April 15. Accordingly, my 
Three and a half years ago, I we have a fencing team solely Bookstore Basketball Tourna­solution of the team, however. I teammates had 5 days to de­arrived at Notre Dame with because the sport is offered as a ment should replace the current must wonder what will be done termine whether or not they dreams of becoming the start-gym class? If this is the case, I members of the Irish men's with the remainder of the en­will stay at N.D., where they ing 150 pounder for the Irish can only wonder what P.E. ac­basketball team. dowment. For now, only Dick would like to continue their wrestling team. Although after tivity will be selected to fill the After all, more people will Rosenthal knows the answer to wrestling careers, and which fifteen minutes into my first void created by the dissolution watch the Bookstore finals than that question . programs, if any, would want practice I realized that my tal-of the wrestling squad. Maybe if attended Notre Dame's NIT My immediate concern, how­their services in the first place. ent would prevent me from ever I'm lucky I'll be able to use my game against Kansas State at ever, does not lie with the rea­120 hours for 18, 19, and 20 seeing the mat, let alone membership in the Monogram the JACC. son for the elimination of the year olds to decide what is wrestling on it, I decided to re-Club to snag season tickets for If the reason for the dismissal wrestling program. but with the more important, education or main as an often abused mem-next year's full contact, Co-ed of the wrestling team is not the affect this action will have upon dreams. ber of the team. Looking back Social Dance team. There isn't interests of the student body or the people connected with the As a senior, I feel obligated to on the past four seasons, I've enough seating at the Rock to the poor attendance at home team itself. Coach Fran McCann advise the underclassmen on come to realize that my deci-accommodate the expected matches, maybe a wrestler's has been offered a position, at a their decisions, but I cannot sion was based solely on the throng of fans, so all recent arrest forced the pro­pay cut, as an instructor with help them. Who am I to tell team concept. competitions will be held in gram's extinction. There is no the P.E. department. With one somebody to abandon a sport 
Despite being a sport in which Stepan Center. denying the fact that the Billy daughter in college and another they've participated in for al­individual successes tend to In addition, our incredibly Hunter situation brought shame soon to enter, Coach McCann most as long as they've gone to take precedence over those of concerned A.D. stated that "One upon both the team and the had little choice but to accept school? Who am I to say that the program, the members of of our missions is to constantly University, but I doubt whether the University's offer. Olympic dreams are more im­the Irish wrestling team are the reappraise our entire sports one incident would result in Although the "cha cha" isn't portant than a degree from a closest group of athletes that I program and to make sure it such a final punishment. coach's strong point, I'm sure reputable university? have encountered on this cam-accurately reflects the interests After all, if a police record was he'll be able to improve the I don't have the answers my pus. In this light, I see the of the student body." I'm not the sole determinant in the quality of our social dancers' friends seek, but neither does wrestling team as an extension, exactly sure how "student continuation of a program, Dick waltzing. Assistant Coach Rick Dick Rosenthal. Then again, albeit a demented one, of the interest" is measured, but I Rosenthal would have had to hit Stewart has not been so lucky, maybe our esteemed athletic di­Notre Dame family. After Ath-assume attendance is the and run the football team out of and has not received another rector does have all the solu­letic Director Dick Rosenthal's determining factor in the equa­here faster than you can say job offer from the school. Given tions, but I have not been able announcement this past Friday, tion. Tony Brooks. no warning from the adminis­to ask him because he is not in however, I can no longer Attendance for revenue Unfortunately, the only real­tration concerning his job South Bend right now. naively believe in the existence sports, i.e. football and basket­istic excuse for the discontinua­safety, Stewart, a father of I must admit that I admire Mr. of a family at Notre Dame. ball, is obviously important. but tion of wrestling as a varsity three, now has to search for a Rosenthal's uncanny ability to 
The cancellation of an entire I don't think the turnstiles sport is money. Only an idiot new position elsewhere. Rick get out of Dodge just after a athletic program is the most should be c.onsidered when would think that the wrestling Stewart came to Notre Dame controversial issue hits. significant action an athletic viewing the success of non rev­team's budget puts a major dent six years ago with the impres­Remember who was director can take, and, as the enue sports. For instance, this in the athletic department's sion that he would someday· be conveniently out of town last result, there must be several year's N.C.A.A. Championships pocket. The issue of money named head coach. Unfortu­spring when Digger Phelps factors behind such a decision. in fencing were held here at centers not on what the team nately, he did not realize such announced his resignation. In his press release Mr. Rosen-Notre Dame this spring, and yet spends, but what it has. For the an announcement would have Much like the masked thai explained that "Wrestling I'm sure that there were more past eight years the wrestling to come at another school. executioners of Medieval Eu­is the only one of all of our var-N.D. students floating on St. program has been funded by a Obviously, the coaches are not rope, Rosenthal cannot look his sity sports that is not repre-Ed's entry in Sunday's Regatta $3 million endowment from a the only individuals who have victims in the eye. sented within the intramural than were present at the former Irish grappler, the late been devastated by the athletic So as my teammates desper­activities offered through our fencing meets. Bucky O'Connor. department's decision. The ately try to sort out their lives, I RecSports department or as a On the other hand, assuming Backed by such an enormous question I've been asked· most ask Mr. Rosenthal, at what Physical Education department -Jhat attendance is the only fac­sum of money, the team is ob­over the past few days has been price? Our dreams? I would be offerin . " tor is the survival of athletic vious! not a burden to the ath-"What are the guys on the team willing to bet that our athletic 
going to do?" I wish I knew. In director would settle for around 
fact, they wish they knew. Dick $3 million, right Dick? 
Rosenthal announced the fate of James Reidy 
the wrestling team on April10. Notre Dame Wrestler 
National Letter of Intent Day is April14, 1992 

--------~--------­

-----------------~--~-----~-----~--­
Accent 

Wednesday, April 15, 1992 page 11 


ss 

.,.._
Joining together In service 
Notre Dame Alumr1i Association teams up with the Center for Social Concerns to make service reality 
Paige Smoron 
Non-Sequiturs 
Daytime Domer drama continues ... 
~~ M ary? Mary? What are you
doing? Why are you 
steering me towards the 
Grotto?" 

"Oh, Joey, I just thought it was time we talked about-The Future." 
(Joey appears panic-stricken. He gulps. Hard.) 
"1... 1... 1...." 
"It's just that-we're seniors now, and we'll be graduating soon, and well, you should be thinking of starting a family." 
"With-with-you?" 
"That's the plan." 
"I don't know if I'm ready... " 
(Joey turns, and looks for escape.) 
"PROPOSE, DAMMIT." 
"Shhhh ... the nuns are staring. I just don't see why you're in such a hurry." "Oh, dear. I was hoping I wouldn't have to resort to this. Joey, I'm pregnant." 
(Joey appears confused.) 
"But-we've never had sex." 
"You're Catholic, aren't you? We've been chosen! It's the savior! It's the Second Coming, or something." 
(Joey appears dubious.) 
"No, I think that would be the Seventh Sign." 
"Whatever. PROPOSE, DAMMIT." 
(Joey appears genuinely terrified. Cut to ... ) 
"If you've been maimed, disfigured, or temporarily stunned in an accident, or if you just want to sue someone, dial 1-800 SLEAZE£. .. " 
"Hello, Professor. I just wanted to sincerely apologize for never getting that 100-page paper to you. I had, urn-computer problems." 
"Frankly, Frankie-I don't give a damn." 
"Oh. Great. I knew you'd be cool about it, because once you let us have class outside on the quad, and you use swear words all the time in your lectures, and besides, when it comes to term papers, I've always felt that it was the thought that counts ... " 
"No, son. I'm trying to tell you that I'm flunking you." 
"Flunk? But that means-" 
"-you won't graduate." 
(The Professor taunts Frank with a sinister smile.) "But-Professor! Isn't there anything I can do?" "I have no choice, Frank. You've shown no respect for yourself, and no respect for me." 
"But there are still two weeks left! I can kiss up every day for the rest of the semester. I'll stay after class and ask you about your doctorate. Come on, Professor!" 
(Suspense builds. Sweat beads on Frank's brow.) 
"Well, son, I admire your spunk. Are you ready to dedicate yourself wholeheartedly to blatant and brazen syncophancy?" 
"Sure." 
"Well then, you shall graduate." 
"Ch-ching!" 
"But you don't get to wear a tassel in your cap." 
"But-" 
"No tassel." 
"Hi. I'm not a doctor, but I play one on TV, and I feel completely qualified to endorse Nyquil as a recreational drink ... " 
Will Mary coerce Joey into raising the Son of God, or will she singlehandedly engineer the Apocalypse? Will Frank graduate, or will he hang his tassel-less head in shame? Tune in next week when Emil T. Hoffman special guest­stars as the surprise commencement speaker on "As the Dome Rotates." 
Paige Smoron is Assistant Accent Editor 
emeritus ofThe Observer. Her columns appear 
every third Wednesday in Accent . 
. I 
• 6· . , . ,, 4 " j • A I· • " ' ,_ • . ;. a. • II • ~-' t. 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY 
Accent Writer 
I 
n recent years, the Center for Social Concerns has been the major provider of community and social 
service opportunities for Notre Dame Students. The Notre Dame Alumni Association has traditionally been involved in service, despite its image as a strictly social organization, according to Peter Pranica, director of alumni community service programs. 
The association is striving to update its image and to include service in its agenda, Pranica said. 
"There is a real perception problem on campus about the alumni clubs," Pranica said. "We want people to realize that we are not some football­watching, beer-drinking orga­nization." 
In the past, the Center for Social Concerns has made it possible for students to volunteer in low-income urban areas, to witness first-hand the injustice of hunger and poverty, and to travel to areas of the country which are hard-hit by economic injustice and disease. 
The Alumni Association would 
like to strive towards joining the 
Center for Social Concerns in its efforts of community and social service, Pranica said. 

There are 194 Notre Dame alumni clubs in the United States which are involved in approximately 125 service organizations, he said. In recent years, they have been involved with projects such as Christmas in April and have worked with poverty-stricken inner city school children. 
Through collaboration efforts, the Association hopes to merge its traditional ideals with the programs and actions of the Center. 
In an effort to change the Association's image, the Notre Dame Alumni Association has agreed to collaborate with the Center for Social Concerns in order to promote community service among alumni, Pranica said. 
The two organizations have teamed up and are meeting to plan ways to make social service a living reality for students both now and after graduation. 
The meeting is set up to show students that the opportunity to do public service work does not end when they leave the realm of the Center Social Concerns, according to Pranica. 
The alumni clubs around the country provide the same avenue for social service as the Center away from Notre Dame, he said. 
The Alumni Association will make a directory available which lists all the areas where an alumni club can be found and numbers that students or alumni can call to obtain information from each. There will also be an alumni board at the meeting to answer questions. 
The session is not just geared toward the seniors who are soon to become alumni, said Pranica. 
"It is open to everyone on this campus who is involved in community service," Pranica said. 
Undergraduates are encour­aged to use the alumni clubs over the summer and during breaks in order to stay involved with service to the community, Pranica said. 
There are other ways to get involved in community service away from Notre Dame, said Pranica. 
"If you were new and alone in a strange city, though," he said, "would you rather work with a bunch of strangers or a group of Notre Dame alumni?" 
There will be an informational meeting held in the C.S.C. on April 22 at 9 p.m. to outline the purpose of the alumni clubs in community service. 
I
I 
Accent
page 12 Wednesday, April 15, 1992 
' 


The South Bend White Sox look toward a rebuilding season while seeking student support 
By CHRIS HANIFIN that this season looks even more 
Accent Writer promising. He said that the 
attendance goal for 1992 is set at 
South Bend offers a unique 225,000 fans. 
opportunity for diehard sports "Basically, we've got a lot of 
fans who want to watch baseball neat things going on in our 
played with a little more intensity organization right now," said Tull. 
than college ball but are hesitant "We're a very young club this 
to make the trip to Chicago: the year," 
South Bend White Sox. Tull said he hopes the 1992 
According to General Manager season will be a strong season to 
John Tull, "April is Notre rebuild.Inaddition,FormerMajor 
Dame/Saint Mary's month at the Leaguer Terry Francona will add 
Stadium. Any-----------to the organization 
student presenting 'We would love as manager.
their I.D. at the Minor League Coveleski Stadium getting more and ball is extremely ticket window more Notre Dame demanding. during April will be and Sal'nt Mary's According to Tull,
admitted for $1." "About one player Students can also StUdentS dOWn here. in twenty five can purchase tickets for That has always expect to play in 
$1 through the the Majors. In our 
Notre Dame Credit been a bit Of a five years, we have 
Union, according to challenge for US.' had three players
Thll. move up." 
"We would love -John Tull One player to getting more and successfully make more Notre Dame Gen. Manager the jump from and Saint Mary's South Bend to the 
students down here. That has Major League is Scott Radinsky, 
always been a bit of a challenge who will be recognized by Chicago 
for us," explained Tun. White Sox fans. 
"We have had senior discount Another player to successfully nights in the past, and we would make the jump to the Majors is like to expand them for the whole the White Sox's Rodney McCray. school," said Tull. 
This spring marks the fifth Stanley Coveleski Stadium is anniversary season for the South located off Taylor Street in Bend White Sox, said Tull. downtown South Bend. The next Last season's attendance of home game is Saturday, April 25. 221,000 was a record for The regular price for general 


Coveleski, and Tull said he feels admissions tickets is $3. The Observer/ Sean Farnan Stadium groundskeeper Joel Rinebold prepares the field for the next home game. 
Wednesday\ April 15, 1992 The Observer 
page 13 

Manhattan's Lappas takes Villanova coaching job 
VILLANOVA, Pa. (AP) -Championship. nounced he had accepted a five­
23-8 and 13-3 in 1991-92. 
Severance, Jack Kraft and
Steve Lappas came back to Lappas, 37, got the job over year contract to replace Jerry 
Manhattan ended the season Massimino.
Villanova today as its new bas-Nick Macarchuk of Fordham. Tarkanian at UNLV. He also 
with a 77-76 loss to La Salle in 
Villanova officials felt pres­
ketb~ll .coach, replacing Rollie T.hree other coaches also inter-announced he was taking one of 
the MAAC championship game. 
sured to make the selection as
Massimino. VIewed. Villanova's four recruits ­
In four seasons at quickly as possible because
Lappas, who had been an Monday evening, Bruce Lawrence Thomas a 6-foot-1 
Manhattan, Lappas was 54-61 
coaches were allowed to go on
assistant under Ma.ssimino, left Parkhill of Penn State followed guard from Elizabeth, N.J. 
overall and 31-31 in the MAAC. 
the road to recruit players
the head coachmg j~b at Pete Gillen of Xavier of Ohio Lappas has strong ties to 
Before joining Massimino at starting last Wednesday.
Manhattan to succeed his old and withdrew from contention. coach· Mike Leonardo of Marist 
Villanova, Lappas spent five 
Parkhill, who has trans­
boss. Massimino quit Villanova George Washington's Mike High in Bayonne, N.J., and 
years at Harry S. Truman High 
formed Penn State's program
to replace Jerry Tarkanian at Jarvis also interviewed, but could keep another recruit, 
School in the Bronx, where ·he 
into a 20-game winner, said he
UNLV both he and Vanderbilt's Eddie Roscoe Harris, in the fold. 
grew up. He compiled a 91-32 
withdrew his name because he
"It's like a dream come true Fogler withdrew from consid-There has been speculation that 
record and took his 1983-84 
felt by seeking the Villanova job 
for me and my family," Lappas eration. Harris, Marist's 6-foot-4 all­
team to the New York Class A 
he was being unfair to Penn
said. "From the time we left Lappas met with his players state guard, might ask Villanova 
championship. 
State players and administra­
here, my wife and I have at Manhattan this morning to to release him from his national 
Villanova finished at 14-15 in tion, especially because the
dreamed of coming back to let them know he was headed letter of intent. 
Massimino's final season, 
process was dragging on longer
Villanova and raising our family for Villanova. 
winning six straight before los­than he had anticipated.
here." Contract terms were undis-
Lappas took over a ing to Syracuse in its Big East "Villanova's a great place,
Lappas was at the Big East closed, but Lappas was ex­
Manhattan program in 1988 tournament opener. The 
but I think Penn State's a great
school from 1984 to 1988, and pected to get a five-year deal 
that had been 7-23 overall and Wildcats lost their NIT opener place now, and it's a better
was there for its greatest sea-with a base salary of about 
1-13 in the Metro Atlantic to Virginia. 
basketball job now than it was
son, 1985 when Villanova upset $120,000 a season. 
Athletic Conference the previ­

The school has had only six or seven years ago," Parkhill 
Georgetown for the NCAA On April 1, Massimino an­
ous season. He brought it up to three coaches in 56 years, Al said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
L...-__
N_O_T_I_C_E_S___.I 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat Pandora's Books corner of ND ave & Howard reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. and Sun. at 8:00AM. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment and training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION for FALL. Children's Community Co-op Morning Classes tor 3's, 4's, 5's and also Toddler Playschool. SPRING OPEN HOUSE, Sunday, April 26, 3-5 p.m. 333 N Main St. South Bend Growing popularity within the Notre Dame Community (Call for references) Peg Moody 234-2320 
DAYTON, OH I need a ride to Dayton for Easter break!! Please 
call Kathy X4026. 
II SUMMER EMPLOYMENT !! Chicago and Suburbs NO Grad Hiring Students $10.25 to start No Exp Nee (708) 705-2694 
NDE 4th Day Folks : Our remaining Wed. nights will be in the Keenan/Stanford chapel, starting TONIGHT at 7:15. SEE YOU THERE!!!! 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: At Stonhenge, 1 groovy looking hoop earring with brass beads and so on ... drop by 303 St. Ed's or call x1672 
LOST: BETWEEN SOUTH DINING HALL AND FISHER REGATIA A GOLD ID BRACELET WITH NAME "MELISSA". SENTIMENTAL VALUE!!! IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 283-3865. 
LOST: SILVER CELTIC CROSS ON SILVER CHAIN. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MARY 3440. $$$ 
Found-blue coat with keys by bookstore basketball courts--{;all x3039 
Found: One stick of red, glossy lipstick in a motel in Greencastle, Ind. this weekend. If this is yours, please contact John Rock at •3559 
FOUND: Bead necklace w/ crucifix by Knott White long sleeve ND shirt@ ACC (in the Pit) Call x3472 and leave message 
~~ .:~~8~8~~"'""" 
at graduation. my aunt still wants to come. Please help her out;Sell me a graduation ticket. Call x4233 
Wanted: Jobs -The Senior Class 
HELP: I need a ride to Wash DC area for Easter. Will help pay expenses. Call Kara x2969 
MOVING TO LA? I'm looking for roommates to live near Manhattan Beach after graduation. CALL JULIE x1342 
Two ND students need two roommates to share apt. in DC (Foggy Bottom/GWU area) tor the summer. Call Steve (x1889) or Dan (x2013) if interested. 
Need ride to/from Pittsbgh 4 Easter. Will split gas/tolls. Ray 
x2388 
SUMMER LIVE-IN NANNY POSITION MILWAUKEE X2613 
WANT SMALL TV. CALL 283-3229. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. 
Turtle Creek guys need two more roommates for next year. Call Brian at x3414. 
Female roommate needed for Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. Call 258-5702 
HELP!! I Everyone bailed on me. 
Need 1 ,2, or 3 roomates for place off campus for next year. Have nice 
furniture! 
Call JP @> X1081 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
2 Bedroom Walk to Campus 
$390 Month 
232 3616 
SUMMER SUBLET (TURTLE CREEK) 272-9540! 
ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., FOR LARGE 4-BEDROOM, FURNISHED HOUSE. COMPLETE SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER & DRYER, 9-MO. LEASE. DEPOSIT. 259-7801 OR 255-5852. 
New condo available mid-May 
thru mid-August. COMPLETELY 
furnished, incl­
uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2 
bedrooms, 2 baths. 
Walking distance to NO campus. 
Call Kathleen -277­
1709. 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT NEW, SPACIOUS 2 BDRM, 28TH, WID, GARAGE, WALKING DIST. TO NO CAMPUS, NICE POOL. CALL CAROLINE OR BILL AT 3t 7­875-8890. 
2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, summer school. $200/mo. Use of all facilities. Close to campus, safe neighborhood. 232-2794. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 
4 56 BDRMS FULLY FURNISHED SECURITY SYSTEMS WASHERSiDRYERS 
287-4989 
705 Notre Dame Ave., 3-bdrm., family or grad students. Avail. 6/1, summer lease and/or fall term. $475/mo. 234-8200 for details. 
RENT 1 BDRM APMT nr NO, $250+util.,dep. 287-7039. 
TURTLE CREEK SUMMER SUBLET-PRICE NEG.; 
FURNISHED. 271-1399 
FOR SALE 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me tor a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
1 way ticket SB-Chi-Denver, Sat May23, must be female, $115, call Steve 277-6578 
STUDENTS AND PARENTS! SAVE on those housing costs. Buy this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. Get a break on your taxes, and a return on your investment after graduation. Call Janet Knapp at RE/MAX 1 00 realty for more information. 219-255-5858 or 219­277-7402. 
'87 FORD TAURUS, EXC. COND, AUTO, AIR, AM/FM, $4,500. 
283-3229 AFTER 9 PM. 
1 way ticket SBN-NEWARK bst ofr x4070 
DOUBLE LOFT 
for sale call Monica x3765 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES ......... $200 86 vw.......................$ 5o 87 MERCEDES ......... $100 65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50 
Choose from thousands starting 
$25. 
FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals Giveaway Prices. 
801-379-2929 
Copyright #IN11KJC. 
88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K 
mil Hundreds below blue book! Jim 
W239-6064/H273-9059 
TICKETS 
For Sale: 
2EricCiaptonConcertTix Chicago;May 13 Ca11Ed@x1561 

Help -I need an extra graduation ticket so my Grandfather won't be disappointed (It'll be worse for him to miss it than have to listen to George) PLEA$E HELP ME! call Steve 273-2501 
Extended Catholic family coming from NJ. Need as many grad. tix as humanly possible. Call Teresa x2899 to haggle. 
FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. Jim x1558. 
PERSONAL 

Hey Krusty, it aint cool to sell your brawless roommate down the river. 
PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold Game Day), at St. Joseph's High School. 
Help the parents keep the kids safe after the prom. Proceeds go to support the 
Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call 272-3753 and leave message. Tickets can be delivered directly to you on campus. 
We gotta problem here? 
Who dis? 
BOOOYA!! 
Help Me, Please 

I need graduation tickets if anyone has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any info. 
please, help me 
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO 

PHILADELPHIA. $128.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541. 
LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 
287-6541. 
NEEDED: Graduation tickets I ! ! ! for family, Please call Alice @ X4907 

WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving doctor and his stay at home wife would like to discuss Baby's future with you. Please call us collect any1ime. (219) 462-5250. Debra and Michael. 
! I ! HEY CHRISTINE ! ! ! Happy 20th Birhtday NERD! Only 364 more days till the fateful night to end your sobriety ... 
(as if you ever were sober) HAPPY BIRTHDAY "DIRTY 'HO SCHUH !" 

SHAGGY/HOBBES (a.k.a. Chris Carrigan) ... 
You are a stud. 
I love you. 
-Olive Oyl 
RIDE NEEDED-Iowa City or vacinity for Easter. JEN 2198. 
CONGRATULATIONS PIG PEN!!! WATCH OUT JAPAN 
TEN DAYS TIL PIG!!!!!!!!! 
JUDY'S JAM ' 92 
FEATURING: LISA PETURSSON DANA DILLON DAVID GEIST LATIN AMERICAN MUSIC RACHEL CRUZ JUDY HUTCHINSON 
TONIGHT!!! Theodore's from 7:00p.m.-2:00a.m. come hear some groovy music 
Alicia .... 
Michael, good luck on Orgo today!!!!!! Love, Renee 
FOOD PROVIDED at the Student-Alumni Community Service program. Meet involved alums and learn how YOU can join them in service projects around the country. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22 
esc 
9:00p.m. 
It could be A WASTED OPPORTUNITY if you don't check out the Student­Alumni Community Service programs. Be a part of service opportunities in alumni clubs. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22 
esc 
9:00p.m. 
Dear Ry-guy, 
Just wanted to wish you a happy 19th! Don't celebrate too much this week! Love, Jeanine 
P.S. Thanx so much for a fantastic weekend, (roses and all!) 
hey nil 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday!!! 
to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -fed zeppelin 
ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information. 
ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322-8187. 
GRADUATION TICKETS: 
If you have any extra, PLEASE call Kristie, #2535. 

ANYONE LEAVING FRI. 17, GOING W ON 1-80 CALL SHARIF @1931 
Prepare for the return of the question .... ."How was your break?" 
On behalf of everyone that had a bean burrito on Sat. Night at Castle 
Point: 
THANKS EASTER BUNNY!!!!!! 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! 

hey Erin! 
Hey John, Colleen 
I am a worm, slowly and surely sinking deeper into the bowels of the earth, putting more desolation between me and the universe 
I GET SO TIRED WORKING SO HARD FOR OUR SURVIVAL 
DEAR SPICY: 
You are the best thing to ever happen to me! Distance or no distance, we will be together in the future as H. and W. You R the 1 4 me. I love you very much. 
Love, meatball 

Happy 21st Birthday to Heather Jablonski. Go out and celebrate and have a great day. Congrats! 
Rob, 
Good luck today, sorry I can't be there to watch. Remember, don't fall, there are eyes everywhere, and they're counting each time you hit the ground! 
Love, Me 

Is anyone out there interested in studying for our Economics 303 exam: (Statistics) . . . ? ? ? 
Please call Cris @ X4907 
Happy Birthday Joe Roberts 
Thanks Siegfried-Howard 
Dr. J: Nex1 time you feel the need to pee, remember the purple steer You know who 
I'd rather be wasting my time on mountains with you! 
TOP TEN REASONS TO WISH 
THAYMA DARBY A HAPPY 20th: 10.) Because it's her birthday tomorrow 9.) Because she drives a cool car 8.) Because she's got a sexy voice 7.) Because she studies too much 6.) Because she used to be a cheerleader! 5.) Because she's a great roommate 4.) Because she likes to be called "Darth" 3.) Because she's great at doing the twist 2.) Because she's a tennis stud 1.) Because she's got the two best roommates around. 
Love, Jen and Michelle 
KRISTIN LYNCH-­You will conquer the huge papers, and you will drink a pail with me next weekend! Thanks so much for the CD....... my section will probably not share the sentiments! 
LIZA 

-:p=a=g=e=1=4======================================-----==------T~h:..:.e....:O:..:b:.:s:..:e..:....rv:..:e:..:..r________________ Wednesday, April 15, 1992 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
YESTERDAY'S RESULTS The Crlmedogs del. Box In, Box Out, 21-9 Orange Juice del. Dr. Scholl's Crew, 21-14 Hypothetical Sex del. The Llonhearta, 21-t7 Common's Club del. Spllttln' That, 2t-13 All The President's Men del. Rlchochet Warrio,;, 21·14 Vegetable Eroticlam del. ABC, 21-8 NUTS del. We Shoot Like Girls, 21-12 L-Traln Ill del. The Good, The Bad, The Laundry, 21-16 Ebony Side ol the Dome del. Fab Bob & the Sausage Factory, 21-11 Touch My Monkey del. 2 Hype 4 U, 21-4 The Men ol Kamel del. Tommy's Tavern, 21-18 No Snackln at theY del. XJ-700 Attack Force, 21-17 lighting Kernala del. Jesus on Wheels, 21-15 Attack ol Phyjhus-llpped Gravity Beasts del. 4 Dudes & Flaming Gomer, 21-14 Real Fab Five del. Desert Eagles, 23-21 The Hawk Will Never Die del. Team 244, 21-7 McCormick& del. DC Underground, 21-5 The Dyslexic 96·ing Happy Fun Smoke Gang del. Nubian Bros.. 21-19 Men who Love Fermented Gram del. You Can't Spell Rat w/o RA, 21-12 Apocalypse & 4 Horsemen del. Anthony Travel, 21-11 Malicious Prosecution del. Mama's Posse, 21-7 Green Eggs & Government Cheese del. The Steins, 21·14 Pass the Beernuts del. Game Cancelled, 21-19 Low Density Wolf Bah del. Rubber Blscuhs, 21-6 Tequila White Llghtmng del. The triumphant return ol TV, 21·4 Automatic Weapons del. Time to Fly Agatn, 21·13 ON On Macleod del. Bookstore's Short, Foul Hard, 22-20 NO's Most Wanted del. Horticulturists, 21-14 Just Chllltn' del. The Hunds Part II, 21·11 The Un-Eun~led Team del. Evicted Violence, 21-16 Cash Money Crew del. Was It Over When German's Bombed Pearl, 21-13 Dogo In Heat del. Arnold Ale, Erik Stman ... best vtew ol dome .... 21-13 
STEPHAN CT1 Pale Rider vs. come Under Nelson's Tent, 4:00 Yeahi The Comlsh's Censored Our Name vs. 10 Minutes 1111 Wapner, 4:45 
Amateur Phalactlca va. We Hate Jimmy Bullet, 5:30 
4 Guys Eatln' Regularly & 1 Single Guy vs. Shoot or Get 011, 6:15 
STEPHAN CT2 Blackjack vs. Air Panther, 4:00 
4 Guys Who Can~ Score with T vs. Matt Curoe's Wedding Present, 445 
2 Guys & 3 Other Guys vs We Drink more Before BAM than most ... 5:30 
4 Studs & Some other Guy vs. Bitter, 6;15 STEPHAN CT3 We're Good Enough, Smart Enough v II we Weren't Such Good-looking guys, 4:00 Zollte·a Double Cheeseburger vs. Drive by Shooting, 4:45 Civil Disobedience vs. Word to your Mother II, 5:30 Charlestown Chiefs vs. Soul Glow, 6:15 

Eric Davis homer lifts Dodgers over Houston, 6-2 
NEW YORK (AP) -The Mets won their first home game of the season as Dave Gallagher's two-run double snapped a seventh-inning tie. 
The Mets lost their first four games at Shea Stadium, their worst start at home since 1962 when the club played at the Polo Grounds. 
After blowing a 4-0 lead, the Mets scored three runs in the seventh inning to snap a 5-5 tie. Gallagher had the key hit off loser Cliff Brantley (0-1) and Eddie Murray added an RBI double. 
John Franco (1-0), who pitched 1 2-3 innings of hitless relief, was the winner. 
On Top 
continued from page 20 
With student-athletes having to make up the difference be­tween the stipend and the rent of an off-campus place out of their own pockets, this could discourage many from pursuing the new option. What if a senior really wants to live off campus for whatever reasons, but cannot afford to make up the difference? 
Finally, why did the University wait so long to re­veal this option to next year's senior student-athletes? The plan is defin;tely a step in the right directi.....n. but I wonder if it is alreadv doomed to failure. 
Grand Opening April ~d 
Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIAUZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road n 8 Ironwood Next to 7b Ga. StaUon Mon·Sat 10 am to 10 pm Sun 12 noon to b pm 
(219) 273-9545 
Dodgers 6, Astros 2 
HOUSTON -Eric Davis hit a long three-run homer and knuckleballer Tom Candiotti pitched a six-hitter as Los Angeles beat Houston. Candiotti (2-0) won his second National League game in as many starts, walking three and striking out seven. 
Brett Butler led off the third with a walk off loser Butch Henry (0-1) and advanced to second on an infield single by Mike Sharperson. Two outs later, Davis hit his third homer as a Dodger, a 420-foot shot into the fourth-seating level of the Astrodome. 
Please support 
he Red Cross. ank you 
EXE liSlE • 

STEPHAN CT4 Black Sheep vs. Painkiller Quill, 4:00 Club Shenanigans vs. Jimmy Chitwood & "Picket Fence", 4:45 Salubrlous-n-Calllplgous vs. O'Malley's Twenty Nlners, 5:30 5 Guys wiNo Social Life Since Tone's Burned vs 5 man Acoustical Jam, 6:15 STEPHAN CT5 Frank Drebln & The 'Cocks vs. AD's Nightclub, 4:00 Hot Fudge vs. ?, 4:45 Bltte,;weet vs. Panic Hardware, 5:30 Team 587 vs. Blow Dryer, Curling Iron & others your Girlfriend Uses. 6:15 STEPHAN CT6 Brldgets vs. The Dogs, 4:00 21 Gun Salute va. Behind the Back, Between the Legs, 4:45 

Royals 3, Athletics 1 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Kansas City Royals, held hitless through seven innings by Ron Darling, scratched out three runs on three sacrifices, two wild pitches and their only hit of the night for their first win of the year. 
Darling took a no-hitter into the eighth, but Keith Miller grounded to deep shortstop and beat Mike Bordick's throw to the bag. A's manager Tony LaRussa then brought in Rick Honeycutt (0-1), who threw wildly to first on Chris Gwynn's sacrifice bunt. Terry Shumpert then laid down another sacri­
o COUNlllY o POP o EIISY IMPORlS • OLUEGiliiSS • HE/IVY 


METIIL • • JIIZZ o GOSPEL o NEW MUSIC • SIIOW 1UNES o SOUNDlllACKS • CLIISSICIIL o ll/\P • INSP!Ili\TIONIIL o COMEDY o EXEilCISE MUSIC • CHILDilEN'S • BLUES • COUNTilY • POP • EIISY LISlE NII~G • COMElJY • llEGG/IE • !MPOilTS • BLUEGil/\SS o HE/IVY MElli\ o llOCK • SOUL • J/\Zl'; o GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC • SIIOW TUNES 
• 
SOIJNDTniiCKS • CLIISSICIIL o 11/\P • INSPiflllliONIIL o COMElJY o EXEr!CISE MUSIC • Ctlll!JflEN'S • BLUES • COliN lilY • POP • EIISY LISlrNING • COMEDY o llEGGIIE• IMPOilTS • BlUEG!liiSS o HE/IVY METIll • llOCK o SOUl • JIIZZ • GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC • SIIOW liJNES 

• 
SOIJti!JTiliiCKS • CLIISSIC/\l. o 11/\P o IN!.>PIIl/11101~111 o COMEDY o EXEflCISE MUSIC • CIIIUIIlEN'S o BLUES • COUNTilY • POP • EIISY LISIFNIIIG • COMEDY • llEGG/\E • IMPOnlS • Ill UEG!liiSS o lil::IIVY METIll • !lOCK • SOUL • ,1/\ZZ o GOSPEL • NEW MUSIC o SIIUW TUNE:S 


o SOUNDT!l/\CKS •CLIISSICAL o ll/\P o INSPIIlATIUNIIL o COMEDY • 

Tons 'A' Us vs. 2 White 2 Win, 5:30 Slim-Fast Presents .... vs. Shamma Lamma Ding Dong, 6:15 BOOKSTORE CTG Gaucho's vs In It Ta Win It, 4:00 (May be Rescheduled) Creamsicies vs. Flipper & the Undertoe&, 4:45 Team Choata vs. White Men Can't Jump, 5:30 Liquid Brlno vs. Aphrodtslacs. 6:15 BOOKSTORE CT10 No Vaseline vs Four Social Drinkers & Willie. 4:00 Moloko & Ultravlolence vs. 1 Cheg & 4 Unemployed, 4:45 II You're Soft, You've Lost vs. 3 AM Eternal, 5:30 The Pluncky Buddah vs. L Train, 6:15 
flee, but Honeycutt's throw to third was late, loading the bases. 
Miller and Gwynn then sped across the plate on consecutive wild pitches. The Royals finally got the ball out of the infield when Gregg Jeffries scored Shumpert with a sacrifice fly. 
Kansas City had dropped its first seven games, the worst start in team history. The Royals were the only winless team in the majors. 
Angels 8, Rangers 1 

ARLINGTON-Hubie Brooks had a three-run homer and five RBis as the Angels won their fourth straight. 

Brooks hit the first pitch to him by starter Jeff Hobinson into the left field stands for his second homer of the season, staking starter Joe Grahe to a 3-0 lead. 
Grahe yielded four hits in 6 2-3 innings against the most potent lineup in the major leagues. Grahe, 3-7 with a 4.81 ERA last season, entered the game with a 12.60 ERA in his only start this year. 
Texas, which dropped its second straight after opening the season 6-1, entered the game leading the majors in runs with 53, even after being shut down by California's Jim Abbott and Bryan Harvey on Monday night, 3-0. 
IMAGINE: 
that you are headed for a new city with a new job ... . . . and you want to make contact with Notre Dame alumni 
involved in community service. 
Your Opportunity: 
• 

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22 
9:00 P.M. 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS 
Learn what 125 alumni clubs around the coun­try are doing for the illiterate, homeless and hungry and what you can do to help. Meet with alumni volunteers who are active m their local clubs. Refreshments will be provided. 
Univrrsity of Notr~ Damt' 
Alumni Association 


Wednesday, April 15, 1992 
RICHFIELD. Ohio (AP)-The Chicago Bulls, playing without Michael Jordan for the third time in six years, suffered their worst loss of the season Tuesday night as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat them 115-100 behind Brad Daugherty's 21 points. 
Jordan stayed in Chicago be­cause of tendinitis in his left knee but was expected back for Friday's game at Atlanta. Jordan also missed a game Feb. 5 because of a suspension for bumping a referee, but he had sat out only one other game in the previous five years. 
The loss stopped Chicago's four-game winning streak. Cleveland, which beat the Bulls in Chicago once this season, had not beaten them at Richfield since April 16, 1989. 
Nets 1 05, Heat 1 00 
MIAMI -New Jersey, playing without top scorer Derrick Coleman down the stretch, outscored Miami 17-4 in the final 4:29 to beat the Heat 105-100 in a crucial game for both teams. 
Coleman had 24 points and 13 rebounds, but Nets coach Bill Fitch had him on the bench in the final minutes. Coleman was neither hurt nor in foul trouble. Miami's Glen Rice scored 36 points, but his team missed nine of its final 10 shots. 
New Jersey improved to 39­41, two games ahead of the Heat with two regular-season games remaining for both teams in the battle for a playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
The Observer 
Knicks 93, Bullets 90 
NEW YORK -Patrick Ewing and John Starks woke up a slumbering New York offense in the fourth quarter, and the Knicks stayed in first place in the Atlantic Division with a victory over Washington. 
The Knicks, who got 11 points from Starks and 10 from Ewing in the final period, stayed one game in front of Boston in the division race with their second victory in six games. 
Ewing finished with 23 points and 21 rebounds and Starks scored 17 points for the Knicks, who had a five-game lead with eight games left. Ledell Eackles scored 17 of his 38 points in the fourth quarter for the Bullets, who have lost six straight games and 10 in a row on the road. 

Boston 99, Philadelphia 94 
PHILADELPHIA -Reggie Lewis scored 27 points,' including a crucial jump shot with 15.9 seconds left, as Boston eliminated Philadelphia from the playoffs for the first time since the 1987-88 season. 
Kevin McHale added 20 points and 12 rebounds for Boston, which won its sixth straight game. Hersey Hawkins had 20 points for the 76ers, who lost their fourth in a row and eighth in the last 10 games. 
Boston led 95-94 when Lewis hit his clutch shot. 
AP File Photo The Cavalier's delivered the Bulls their worst loss of the season with the help of Brad Daugherty. 
oc 
continued from page 20 
that we can afford with the stipend are being taken." 
Under the arrangement, a student-athlete receiving full scholarship aid will continue to receive tuition and on-campus meals, and will be provided a University stipend to help de­fray the cost of off-campus rent. 
"Other schools do it much differently," Conboy explained. "UCLA, for example, gives stu­dent athletes one-tenth of its room and board total each month and tells them to find their own place. Schools which do it in that way (not UCLA) have run into trouble with the NCAA." 
According to the memo, the exact amount has not yet been determined by the University Accounting Office, but will be about $750 per semester, which will be paid directly to the landlords. According to Conboy, this figure will be determined by subtracting the cost of an on­campus room from the amount charged for room and board. 
''I'm happy we are getting live off-campus, but if it is supposed to be a privilege for the seniors 

their own individual role on the 
Actually, it's not that different. team and by realizing that, ev­The elder Counsell hit .350 his
Big 3 
erybody comes together as a junior year, while the younger team," he says. hit .317. Craig's consistent
continued from page 20 
If Binkiewicz lives up to his hitting (currently .317) forced expectations, he could follow his move from second to thirdBinkiewicz, the six-foot-four, 1991 graduate Frank Jacobs-a in the lineup. 
220-pound first baseman, has first-base prospect in the New "As far as the team, it makes been a clinic on the field ever York Mets farm system-to the our lineup more balanced top to 
since joining the Irish. He pro's. bottom," Counsell humblyearned freshman of the year 
"It's a dream come true for retorted.
honors with a .337 average 
anybody. If I get an opportunity Cory Mee had three pioneersthen and improved to .379 with to play professional baseball, to track: infielder Mike Coss (in15 homers over his junior sea­there's no doubt in my mind Cory Mee the Orioles' system), catcher Ed son. 
that I will," said Binkiewicz. and later held an assistant Lund (with the Dodgers) and
While currently leading the 
Counsell, the slick-fielding coaching position under his le­Jacobs. 
team in round-trippers with 
shortstop, is also tracking gendary coach, Jake Kline. Mee, who has played first,five, Binkiewicz carries an un­footsteps-those left by his father "It's fun playing where my second, third and catcher, hascharacteristically low .255 bat­John, a rightfielder who dad used to play," said the two perspectives on his versatil­ting average. 
captained the Notre Dame younger Counsell. "He knows ity.

The pre-med student from 
baseball team 28 years ago. He it's a lot different than it was "One of the ways I can help
Wintersville, Oh., likens the 
played four years in the when he played here, but he's out the team is to play a num­team concept to being part of a Minnesota Twins organization taught me a lot." ber of different positions. It'sM.A.S.H. unit. "Everybody has 

This privilege will only be extended to senior scholarship student-athletes, and all under­classmen must remain on-cam­pus. 
This is also not a permanent arrangement. It is being insti­tuted on a trial basis for the 1992-93 Academic Year, and its future depends the seniors' maintenance of the proper standards of behavior. 
If all goes successfully, Conboy said that the Athletic Department hopes to start the entire process early in the sec­ond semester next year to make things easier for the student­athletes. 
also going to help me down the road," said Mee, who attributed his versatility to participating in a variety of sports in high school (basketball, soccer, baseball) and the inquisitive nature he developed while playing under his father. 
"Being around games I try to learn about everything on the field," said Mee, who mainly at third-base this season and whose steady .295 average now occupies the second spot in the order. 
As for a professional career, Mee says, "The coach handles that. We still have more than half the season left, so I'll just have to worry more about that." 
As standout players on the field, they offer a diverse vari­ety of talents. 
As tri-captains, they possess 
a strict team-oriented attitude. 
As professional prospects, 
they have hope for the future, 
but remember: one battle at a 
time. 


BU. 
VICTIM. 
they should give us enough to have a decent place to live," senior-to-be outside linebacker Karmeeleyah McGill commented. 
If rent exceeds this stipend, proof must be produced as to where the additional funds came from in order to avoid any NCAA violations. 
The additional rent will have to be paid by the players. 
"We are going to have. to pay money out of our own pockets," Ratigan said. 
"It is unfair not to get the full rent," Brooks added. "We are losing money on our scholar­ships." 
Partial scholarship aid will 

first be applied to tuition and board. 
The proposed residencies of the student-athletes must be approved by the Athletic Department. 
The NCAA prohibits athletic dormitories both on and off­campus. Therefore, a large group of student-athletes can­not legally be concentrated in a single location. The maximum number of people in a single residence will be four. 
The Athletic Department would also have a problem ap­proving student housing in neighborhoods that might pre­sent a threat to personal safety. 
page 16 
SMC tennis falters vs. Chicago State 
Special to the Observer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team ran into some trouble against Chicago State University yes­terday in a dual match in Chicago. The Lady Cougars (22­
1) won almost every match en route to the victory. 
"This was a very good Division I team and they played us well," said Saint Mary's coach Shelly Schultz. "But, we had a good win at number­three doubles." 
The number-three doubles teams provided only one of two wins for the Belles in the match. Thayma Darby and Shannon McGinn defeated Cynthia Pitts and Tiffany Brown, 7-5, 6-2. 
The only other Saint Mary's win came at number-six singles where Marisa Pflum bested Brown 6-1, 6-4. The rest of the singles' players ran into trouble at the match. 
At number-one singles, Ellen Mayer, ranked 35th in the na­tion, lost to Tytana Turner, 6-3, 6-3. In the number-two spot, Marie Koscielski was beaten, 6­0, 6-1, by Martha Gates. Belle Natalie Kloepfer fell to Crystal Embry, 6-1, 6-1 at third singles while Darby, 13-2 so far this year, defeated Angela Gibson at fourth singles. In fifth singles, Andrea Ayers lost to Cynthia Pitts, 6-2, 6-2. 
In doubles play, the Belles ran into just as much trouble. In the number-one spot, Mayer and Koscielski was downed, 6­1, 6-3 by Turner and Embry. At number-two doubles, the tan­dem of Kloepfer and Ayers fell 6-2, 6-1 to Gates and Gibson. 




~---­
The Observer Wednesday, April 15, 1992 
Irish baseball set for lllini 
Special to the Observer with its sweep of the Purple Aces. Junior Chris Michalak (5­1\vo teams who have beaten 1, 2.35 ERA) pitched a complete game in which he forced 20 of
the highly regarded Miami baseball team will converge on the outs to be ground outs. AI Walania (3-3, 2.93) also pitched 
Coveleski Stadium today when the 21st-ranked Notre Dame against Evansville this weekend walking one and striking out
baseball team (18-9) meets the University of Illinois (22-11). six. Davis Sinnes (4-1, 3.86 ERA) and Pat Leahy (5-3, 2.87
The Illini has won four ERA) also notched victories
games in a row and seven of along with strong pitching
their last eight including three performances this weekend.
out of four against Iowa. The Sinnes threw a two-hitter while 
Irish are coming into the game off a clean four game sweep of Leahy shut out the Aces in his game.
Midwestern Collegiate The Illini also bring some
Conference foe Evansville. heavy hitters into the game
The last meeting of the two with outfielder Larry Sutton,
teams was in 1960. The Irish infielder Scott Spiario, out­
won that game 3-2 to increase fielder Mike Jurrack, and in­
their lead in the series to 34-18. fielder Andy Small. Sutton has
Pitching has been the key for started every game for Illinois
both teams in recent games. In and has a .368 batting average
their last seven games, the Illini while driving in 37 RBis.
pitching staff has a combined Spiario (.340, 37 RBI) is the
earned run average of 1.83 long ball hitter for the Illini
while giving up only 36 hits and with a team high 10 home runs.
11 earned runs in 54 innings. Jurrack (.282, 15 RBI) has also
No pitcher has been named yet started every game for Illinois
by Illinois coach Itch Jones, but while Small (.276, 15 RBI) leads
several members of the staff the team in doubles with nine. 
could mystify the Irish batters. For the Irish, junior Eric
Mark Dressen boasts a 7-1 Danapilis (.384, 26 RBI), senior
record and a 3.58 ERA while striking out a team high 43 Craig Counsell (. 317, 19 RBI), 
batters. Mark Arrandale (4-4, and Cory Mee (.295, 19 RBI) 
2.44 ERA), Keith Torani (5-2, remain atop the Notre Dame 
4.35 ERA), and John offensive strike force while 
Castermich (1-2, 3.20 ERA) are freshman Bob Lisanti (.264, 7 also enjoying success on the RBI) is quickly moving into their mound. ranks. 
The Irish had a big weekend Gametime today is 6 p.m. 
Only you can prevent orest fires. 

Graduate into your own car. 
Speaat ieettel 'l(Yt a-Lwuted 7U~te tJtdtfl 
8.65% :PR 
Maximum Term-60 months 
We'll even give you deferred payments unti1August15, 1992 
(please bring an offer letter from your future employer and your acceptance letter). 
To help with your relocation, we also have: MasterCard 14.92%* APR $1 0 annual fee 
• Rates subject to change without notice. Members must meet qualifications. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 

Independent of the University 
Women 
continued from page 20 
The Irish are more concerned with their own play, however, than with Michigan's depth. 
When everything comes to­gether, Notre Dame is a tough team to beat, but that has hap­pened only on rare occasions this season. 
One constant throughout all the ups and downs has been the play of junior Melissa Harris at number one singles and sophomore Lisa Tholen at number four singles. Harris has collected a team high 32 wins and Tholen has won 19 of her last 20 matches. 
The rest of the team has shown flashes of brilliance, but they haven't been able to put it all together against an oppo-
Melissa Harris 
nent of Michigan's calibre this season. That has hindered the team's bid to bring their record above the .500 mark, a goal they have strived for all season. 
"It seems like every time we get to .500 we get beat," Louderback said. "We've been beating some good teams, but we really want to finish with a win and get over .500 for the season." 
Please Recycle 
Summer in Cleveland 
1992 Summer Session Case Western Reserve University 
This summer you can move ahead in engineering, the humanities, social sciences. and management. Take advantage of our special summer tuition rate of $2R4 per credit hour. ' 
Summer session extends from June 9 through August 4 and includes special sessions for premedical students: 
• Intensive sessions cover two semesters of work in general chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, and labs. See our Summer Session Rostel' for starting and ending dates. 
For a copy of the Summer Session Roster and application materials, please contact: University Registrar 22J Pardee Hall 
Case Western Reserve University ~,.. 
10900 Euclid Avenue . Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7042 (216) J6H-431H 
CWRU 

Wednesday, April 15, 1992 The Observer page 17 
Cincy charity run to remember swimmers Beeler and Hipp 
By ANDREW ILIFF Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame family has opened its heart in support of the Colleen Hipp and Meghan Beeler Memorial Scholarship Fund through dorm and stu­dent government events, and over Easter, members of the extended Notre Dame family will have an unique chance to support the scholarship fund. 
On Saturday, April 18, the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati will host the Athletes Memorial 5K Run, sponsored by Super X Drug Stores, CTI Telecommunications, and the Castellini Company, with the proceeds of the event divided equally between the scholarship fund and local Cincinnati charities. 
The run will feature 15 Cincinnati-area Olympians, 10 swimmers including 1968 Olympians Larry Barbiere, Ross Wales, and Jenny Kemp. Organizers hope to field a group of 250 -400 runners _in the event made possible through many corporate spon­sors in the South Bend and Cincinnati areas. 
Michael Roberts (ND '86-ND Law '90), a Cincinnati attorney, and head organizer of the run, wanted to support the scholar­ship fund with "something dif­ferent than the typical dinner," and he hopes that a 5K run can pull people out in support of the scholarship fund and local charities. 
"I wanted to do something active to help in a way that is fun for people to take part in," said Roberts. 
While attending Notre Dame as an undergraduate, Michael Roberts swam for the swim team, and as a law student at ND, he worked with the swim teams as an assistant coach. 
The event has generated ex­citement among the swimming teams; both coaches and as many as 12 swimmers plan to travel to Cincinnati in support of the event and the scholarship fund. 
For those interested in participating, the actual race will begin at 10 a.m., Saturday, at Ault Park in Cincinnati, with a $9.00 entry fee and T-shirts to all participants. The Rolfs Aquatic Center has registration forms available now, but run­ners do not have to pre-regis­ter. 
Special to the Observer 
Senior forward LaPhonso Ellis was honored as Notre Dame's most valuable player Tuesday night at the annual Notre Dame men's basketball banquet. 
That award, presented by the Notre Dame National Mono­gram Club, was one of five given out during the evening. All of the awards, except the student-athlete award, were voted on by the players. 
Ellis led Notre Dame to an 18­13 record and the finals of the National Invitation Tournament this season by averaging a team high 17.7 points and 11.7 rebounds. He finished his career eighth on the all-time scoring list with 1,505 points and third on the rebounding list with 1,07 5 boards. 
Ellis was ranked seventh in the nation in rebounding, ninth in field goal percentage and 17th in blocked shots in the final NCAA statistics. He was also voted to the NITs all­tournament team. 
Senior center Keith Tower took home the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Student­Athlete Award for the second 

Ellis awarded Irish hoops MVP 

LaPhonso Ellis 
straight year. The 6-11, Pittsburgh, Pa., native averaged 
4.3 ppg. and 5.3 rpg. on the court while managing a 2.8 GPA as a psychology major in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Freshman forward Billy Taylor was named the Best Defensive Player on the '91-'92 team. The only non-senior on the starting lineup, Taylor guarded some of the nation's best players in first year coach John MacLeod's man-to-man defensive philosophy. 
His defensive assignment's included the likes of All­American's Harold Miner of USC, Bryant Stith of Virginia, Anthony Peeler of Missouri, Grant Hill of Duke, Malik Sealy of St. John's and Tracy Murray of UCLA. Taylor averaged 6.4 ppg. and 3.1 rpg. while averaging 30 minutes of playing time per game. 
Senior guard Elmer Bennett, an NIT all-tournament team pick, was the recipient of the Sparkplug Award. He averaged 
16.5 ppg. to compliment a 6.2 assists per game average. 
Bennett finished his career in impressive fashion by setting his career high with a 39-point effort in the finals of the NIT against Virginia. That was the most p51ints by a player in an NIT game in 13 years. Bennett, the Irish all-time leader in three-pointers and three-point attempts, came within one steal this year of tying the Irish single season record of 61. 
Senior guard Daimon Sweet was named the team's Most Improved Player. Sweet, who lost 25 pounds in the off season and made tremendous strides in his defensive game, was sec­ond on the team in scoring at 
16.8 ppg. He was also second on the squad with 59 assists all..d 42,-steals. 
Sweet made 37 three-pointers in 94 attempts (39.4 percent) in his senior season after never attempting a three-point shot in his first three years. 

Get $JOO 
Hertz 
from 
Hertz Penske Truck Rental. 

We'll give you up to $100 cash back when you rent a Hertz Penske truck. We've got everything you need to make your campus move easy-a modem, clean fleet. ..free unlimited mileage on one way moves... convenient coast-to-coast locations...a free moving guide...and all the accessories to get the job done. 
For reservations, check the Yellow Pages for the location nearest you, or call1-800-222-0277. 


r--------------<)'titWFtfit·...:
........,,.;;o..{,•••.. 
leaving Campus? Up to $100 CASH BACKI 
Hertz Penske is offering up to a $100 rebate on any one way move (rented in one city and returned to another). Effective April 1, 1992. All coupons must be submitted by July 31, 1992. The amount of the rebate will be based on 10% of the time and mileage charges as listed on your truck rental agreement, up to a maximum of $100. 
MUM 

______________________________________________ ADDRESS _______________________  Hertz  
arr_________________________s~n  ZIP______  
RDrrMA~HM8«#_______________________________________  PEJIISKE  
RENTED IN ___________RETURNED TO___________  Truck Rental  
Mail this coupon and a copy of your rental agreement to:  

HERTZ PENSKE TRUCK RENTAL • P.O. BOX 391 • ROUTE 10 GREEN HIUS • READING, PA 19603 • BOD-222..0277 
ND/413 

continued from page 20 
head coach Bob Bayliss. "Their styles are opposed, with Kass being an attacker and DiLucia being a counter-puncher, so it should be a great match." 
Kass is Michigan's only ranked player, while the Irish boast DiLucia, the fourth­ranked doubles team of DiLucia and Chuck Coleman, and 65th­ranked Andy Zurcher and 94th­ranked Will Forsyth at two and four-singles. Coleman at three­singles and the second-doubles team of Zurcher and Forsyth were also ranked earlier in the 
om that standpoint, the 
should be able to win the 
rather easily. 
"We know them really well," 
oted Irish head coach Bob 
Bayliss, "They're talented and when they're healthy, they can be very good. However, they haven't played up to expecta­tions this year." 
Even if the Wolverines can put it together this weekend, they should have a tough time due to the superior depth that the Irish displayed in their MCC victory last weekend. Despite resting their number-one sin­gles and number-one and two doubles teams, the Irish still swept all nine flights to win their fourth-straight champi­onship. 
At stake this weekend will be one of the Irish's preseason goals, an undefeated district record. Overall, the ninth­ranked Irish are 18-3. However, no Midwest team has been able to give the Irish any problems, but Michigan hopes to be the frrst. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know. 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Assistant Acc.ent Editor Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a 1 page personal statement and a sample column to Jahnelle Harrigan by 5 p.m. on Wed. April15 
To 
7mellle at 239-7471. 
page 18 The Observer Wednesday, April 15, 1992 
Notre Dame softball blanks Valparaiso in 2 games 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame softball team (23-17) made for terrible guests, mauling host Valparaiso 2-0 and 10-0 and dropping the Crusaders' season record to a 

Sophomore pitcher Carrie Miller, shown here against Bowling Green State. pitched a shutout in one of the Irish softball victories yesterday. In that game, Miller pitched a two-hit complete game against Valparaiso. 
Wachter to lead SMC 
By JENNIFER GUSTAFSON Sports Writer 
After dropping two games on Monday, the Saint Mary's softball team hopes to turn it's luck around at the expense of the University of Chicago today. 
Last year, the Belles easily beat the Lady Marooners who finished 2-28 on the season. 
Sophomore outfielder Erin Wachter feels that the team should fare well against Chicago. 
"Our hitting's been on lately, and although our infield is young. they've been sticking together real well," Wachter said. 
Wachter believes that Monday's losses to Albion Collflge will serve as a learning experience in today's games. 
"We became aware of the mental errors, which played a big part in our losses and hopefully we can eliminate most of them," she said. 
The Belles will be turning to Wachter's leadership both on the field and at the Plate today. 
"I've been playing pretty well in the field. and I've been getting the bat on the ball lately, which feels good." She said. 
Hitting has been key for the Belles this season, as they boast several players batting over .300, including Wachter. 
dismal '7-23. 
Carrie Miller pitched the first of two Irish shutouts on the day, allowing only two singles and one walk while going the distance. Miller, a sophomore from, improved her record. 
Offensively, the Notre Dame should have called the first game "Christmas in April." In the second, the Crusaders gave the Irish all they would need. Pitcher Erin Reiter (3-10) hur­ried her throw to first on Lisa Miller's bunt. The wild throw bounded into the outfield, al­lowing the fleet-footed Miller to circle the bases. 




Happy Easter! 

from the staff of The Observer 
Attention-Student Summer Storaae 
What NEW Mini Warehouse and Storage Facility REFUSED to charge Deposits, Administrative Fees, and UNFAIR Higher Student Rental Fees Last Season. 
•Security 
System •Resident Manager 

•Spacious 
and Conveniently Located 



(219) 271-1105 We are expanding just for you! CALL NOW for your Reservation!! 
~ ;;,;;;;;;;<;;;;;,~ ~I 
!I ~;ZI i 
,r.,Atl 
i I 
I
St. Mary's
~· 
*Nolte Dame 
I 
I
~ 
~ 



5 X 101s -$30 1290 Prices Special Student Rate 10 X 10 10 X 20 $45 Your Choice! 
Located on Douglas Rd. between St. Road 23 and Grape Road 

In the seventh, the Crusaders' charity continued, as Notre Dame shortstop Ruth Kmak reached base on an error. The Irish co-captain then stole third and advanced to third on a groundout by Ronny Alvarez. The team's other co-captain, catcher Amy Folsom, then came through with a sacrifice fly to bring in the other unearned run. 
The Irish bats earned their way through the second con­test, blasting out 16 hits in all, as everyone stepped in to con­tribute. 
"We're swinging the bat a lot better since the weekend, and some new faces came in and did well at the plate," said Boulac. 
Freshman Andrea Keys, sub­bing behind the plate for Folsom, singled. Melissa Cook, in at third-base for Debbie Boulac, connected, as did Kmak, to make the score 1-0. 
The Irish opened it up in the fifth as a Keys' single up the middle scored Stephanie Pinter and Christy Connoyer. Cook, Kmak, Pinter and Connoyer also had RBI hits, to round out the frame with five runs on nine hits. 
In the seventh, Notre Dame tacked on four more runs to it a Iaugher. Keys, making the most of her start, knocked her third single of the game. Sherri Quinn tripled and Cook walked. 
Then freshman Liz Goetz de­livered a pinch-hit RBI single. Finally, with two out, speedster Amy Reuter beat out a bunt that scored Goetz and made the score 10-0. 
In the meantime, the Irish continued their domination on the mound. Stad Alford threw four inning of no-hit ball before surrendering a single in the fifth and giving way to Melissa Linn in the sixth. Alford recorded seven K's, and Linn added three more. 
Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 
Thank You 
For
Hertz 

Do-lt-Yourself 
PEIIISKE 

Moves Local • one way 
Truck Rene-a/ 

10 II. Vans 14ft. Vans 18ft. Vana 24ft. Vana 1-2 Rooms 2·3 Rooms 4-5 Rooms 6·6 f1ooms 
Low Rates • Free Unlimited Mileage on One Way Rentals 
• A1r Conditioning and Aulomallc TransmiSSIOn • New. Clean. Top-Ma1nla1ned Models 
• Buill-In Load1ng Ramps • 24-Hour Emergency Road Serv1ce. 7 Days a Week 
• Full Line of Mov1ng Accessorres Including· Tow Dollies. Hand Trucks. Pads and Carlons • Free Movrng Gu1de • Prolecllon Plans • Most MaJor Crcdtt Cards Accepted 
South Bend 277·0144 
Misha~aka 
234-9665 
"Ask for your 10% student discount" 
For One Way Reservations. Call 1-800-222-0277 
' Penske Truck leasmg Co 1991 


TWO OPERAS IN ONE EVENING 
Dido and Aeneas The Impresario 
lb}y ill~ [pa:J!POOll!l lb}yWo~~ 
Garry Grice, Director 
Wednesday and Thursday April15 and 16, 1992 8:00p.m. 

.,.
Today 

Wednesday, April 15, 1992 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'iO\JR 1'1\0l-1\ 0\Dt{T CAR£ M\JC\4 AI?IJ\JI TI-lE l\JNI\R 
Sf>NCT\<JN OF 'iO\JR 
NO· \-\OME'f.IORk PIJL\C'i, 
D\0 5I-\£ ;;> 
THE FAR SIDE 
'tiELL, M'i 1-\()RClSCol£ SP.\0 
''NANY 'f:E'{ ~\..\C\1:5 Y-4\LL 
I3E \ll\.1'\.t.lA.Et{Tt.D," NOT ALL 
OF 11-\E.M. 8£5\D£5, II '5t>.'i'3 
TO EXI?EC.T A TUR~A.Boo\ l~ t-A.'( ~I\'lOR. f'o\OM Y-41\.L NEXi \lM£ toR S\JRE . 
' 
GARY LARSON 
SPIN 
t{o BA\\-\5, S\P.,'{ l.ll' Lt..lt. 
[X)I*t \:£J TO SC.\-1.00\.. ... THESE ~Rt. \We. ONE':> ~~1 'tllU. Bt. \ti.~Lt.l-\£1-llli>. 
BILL WATIERSON 
Mf..'{~E 1\-\E ~SI;RQ\PGt.R 'tlt-.5 \.00\(..\~G \14~ 1\\E. 
'flRQI{G t.N.'i) OF TI-\E. 1El£.'5COP£. 
JOHN MONKS 


~Edward 
ACROSS 

1 Catchwords 12 Gift of­15 Flower process 16-king 17 The sun and the 
moon (2 wds.) 19 Donkey 20 Ad­
21 State publicly 22 Klink or Sanders 
(abbr.) 23 Keats writings 24 Soft drink (2 wds.) 28 Refrain from voting 31 Greek god of war 32 Attender 34 Chinese aborigine 35 Crazy 36 Harnesses 38 "-Kampf" 39 National League 
city (abbr.) 40 "...giant -for 
mankind" 41 Italian river 42 Drinking items 46 Ancient Greek 
musicians 48 -avail 49 Vic Tayback role 50 Pursued stealthily 
Julius Colle£iate CW83-13 53 Mr. DiMaggio 16 Two musicians 54 ·amega's neighbor 22 "-thy bread 57 Entertainment upon the waters" 
medium (2 wds.) 24 Egyptian president 60 Part of APB 25 Give a speech 61 The quality of 26 Collapsible 
being the best 27 Combines, as 62 Maiden name knowledge designation 28 " ••• done this with 
63 Printshop workers -live girl" 29 "-Got Nobody" 30 Taboos
DOWN 

33 ----out a living 1 Animals' friend 37 "007" film, e.g. 
(abbr.) (2 wds.) 2 Garden tools 38 Letters 3 " ...to hast'ning 43 Colby, e.g. (abbr.) 
----a prey" 44 Neglected 4 Ending for scram or 45 Robert Burns' field 
sham 47 Recoin 5 Chess piece 50 Nor., Swed., and 6 Branch of Den. 
metaphysics 51 Fib 7 Secular 52 Profound 8 Theta's neighbor 53 Truman and Kennedy, 9 Scrabble piece e.g. (abbr.) 
10 Associate 54 Long for 
familiarly 55 Well-known Greek 11 Hairnets philosopher (abbr.) 12 Those who 56 Chemical suffixes 
contradict 58 Liberace, to 13 Mr. Guinness friends 14 Morally low 59 Harden 
LECTURES  
Wednesday 12:15 p.m. Lenten Series 1992 Honoring the Sisters of the Holy Cross, "Friend or Betrayer," Josephine Ford. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint Mary's College. Stapleton Lounge, Lemans Hall, Saint Mary's College. 4 p.m. Lecture Series in the History and Traditions of Saint Mary's College-Rediscovering Our Roots. "Life at the Cross Roads: Sister Madeleva Woolf and Saint Mary's 1906-1964," Gail Mandell and Moira Murphy. Sponsored by Saint Mary's College. Stapleton Longe, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. 4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Nuclear Astrophysics and the Origin of the Element in the Big Bang," Richard Boyd, Ohio State University. Sponsored by Physics Department. Room 118, Nieuwland. 7:30p.m Research Planning Meeting, "Industrial Restricting and Free Trade: A Comparison Between the Cases of Chile and Mexico," Jhorge Carrillo, Colegion de Ia Frontera Norte, Mexico; Jorge Bustamante, Ernest Bartell, Kwan Kim, Jaime Ros, and Samuel Valenzuela. Sponsored by Colegion de Ia Frontera Norte(COLEF) and Kellogg Institute. Room c-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies.  

"Oh, my word, Helen! You play, too? ... And here 1 
"Possible OWl ahead" 

always thought you were just a songbird." 
MENU  
Wednesday 8 p.m. Notre Dame Opera Workshop. Dido and Aeneas and The Impresari6. Sponsored by the Music Department. Washington Hall. 8 p.m. Spring Concert. Saint Mary's College Women's Choir. Sponsored by Music Department of Saint Mary's College. Little Theatre, Saint Mary's College. Thursday Noon. Second University of Notre Dame Author Luncheon with presentations by Elizabeth Christman, John Heisler, and Rev. Martin O'Connell. Sponsored by Friends of the Library at Notre Dame. (For further information contact Melodie 11Elteijorge at 239-7780).  
Notre Dame Stir Fry Beef & Green Peppers Turkey Turnover Fettuccine Alfredo Saint Mary's Stir Fried Chicken Pork Lo Mein Shrimp Lo Mein  

• 


"THE SHIRT" 
JIJRJISH 
ON SALE NOW 9-5 pm at the Student Government Office 

Cost is $5.00
THE TIME HAS COME 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Sports 
page 20 

JENNY MARTEN 
On Top of Sports 
University policy could prove disappointing 
OfT-campus living is a privilege that has been denied varsity athletes on scholarship for a long time, but this year the University decided to try a plan for off-campus residentiality for senior student-athletes during the 1992-93 school year. 
Hequiring student-athletes to live on campus for four years is just another way that the University tries to exert control over its students, but the policy has been debated in recent years with the increasing appeal of ofT-campus living. 
It is about time that these student­athletes were given the same options that the rest of the student body has. These seniors who may live off-campus will have given four years of service to this school and they deserve the option. 
Unfortunately, the University has outlined a substantial list of rules and regulations that jeopardizes the viability of this policy. All the senior scholarship student-athletes received a memo from the Athletic Department earlier in the month outlining the guidelines. 
Once again it appears that Notre Dame has buried what seems to be a good and much nePded proposal under a mountain of red tape. Almost fwerything must be approved by various offices and departments. 
Just look at the process the first and, maybe last, class of senior student­athletes have to do in order to move ofT­campus. First, letters of permission are needed from guardians and coaches. Second. the soon-to-be seniors have until April 20 to submit an application. The letter detailing the new policy was dated April 3 and most likely the student­athletes received them a few days later. 
In the span of less than 17 days, the student-athletes must secure a house, apartment, condo, or other off-campus living arrangement. Is this enough tim•~? If only a few student-athletes can find alternative housing before the April 20 deadline. will the University assume that there is not enough interest in the new policy and not continue ofTering the otT­campus option to senior student­athletes? And why did the Athletic Department wait until such a late date to inform the student-athletes of this policy change? For most student-athletes it is too late to secure adequate and appealing off-campus housing for next year. 
The next problem is this whole issue of the stipend which the Accounting Office is still calculating. With only four athletes allowed to live in a single residence, and the stipend not looking too substantial,

• 
the question of the financial feasibility of the plan remains. Will financial matters prevent a significant number of student­athletes from taking advantage of this option? 
see On TOP I page ·15 
INSIDE SPORTS 
• 
Baseball team faces Illinois today see page 16 

• 
Beeler-Hipp Runs scheduled see page 17 

• 
Basketball players honored see page 17 

• 
Softball blanks Valparaiso see page 18 



Wednesday, April 15, 1992 
Senior athletes offered off-campus option 
By MIKE SCRUDATO "I like dorm life, but some­Sports Editor times you want your privacy," senior-to-be After receiving requests tailback Reggie Brooks from a group of student­commented. "There are athletes, the University times when you want to be administration has decided alone and collect your to allow senior scholarship thoughts, and you can't student-athletes to move off­always do that in the dorms." campus under certain cir­The fact that some athletes cumstances. were moving ofT campus de­
There were several reasons spite University policy also why the decision was made. entered into the decision. 
"At this time, a lot of However, Conboy said that seniors are moving off­it was not as pervasive a campus, and we felt student­problem as some people athletes should not be an believe it to be. exception," Assistant Athletic Senior scholarship student­Director Missy Conboy said. athletes who wishes to move 
"It is important for some off-campus must get a letter 
athletes to have their privacy. from his or her coach and If they have to move off­written permission from his campus to do so, we or her parent or legal shouldn't prevent them from guardian. 
doing so." After receiving these items, permission to move off­campus will be granted assuming the Athletic Department, in consultation with the Office of Academic Services, determines that such a move will not be detrimental to the scholastic well-being of the student­athlete. 
According to Kate Halischak, Director of Academic Services for Student-Athletes, students would be given permission by her office as long as the stu­dent-athlete is a "good student and making progress toward a degree." 
Also, a student-athlete who has had prior citizenship problems involving the Office of Student Affairs will likely not qualify to live ofT campus. 
"Each student-athlete will be handled as a individual case," Conboy commented. 
The student-athletes were told of this decision in a memorandum from Notre Dame Athletic Director Diek Rosenthal, which was dated April 3, and they have until April 20 to apply to move ofT­campus. After this date the student-athletes will be told if he or she will be permitted to move ofT-campus. 
''I'm glad we are being al­lowed to move off, as seniors we should be able to do so." senior-to-be inside linebacker Brian Hatigan said. "But, because we are finding out whether we will be allowed to move off so late, all the decent places 
see OC I page 15 
Irish tennis teams to meet UM 
Dilucia-Kass one to watch 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Another day, another test for 
the third-ranked collegiate tennis 
player in the nation, Notre Dame 
senior David DiLucia. 
When the Notre Dame men's 
tennis team, fresh off another 
Midwestern Collegiate Confer­
ence championship, heads to Ann 
Arbor to take on the Michigan 
Wolverines, all eyes will be on 
center court for the matchup 
between DiLucia and UM's 16th­
ranked David Kass. 
DiLucia took the weekend off 
after pushing a sore shoulder to 
the limit in a win over 19th­
ranked Dan Kronauge of Ball 
State and a loss to the fifth­
ranked team of Kronauge and 
Paul Kruse last Wednesday, so he 
should be rested up. Kass has 
had injury problems of his own 
that have kept him out of 
numerous matehes throughout 
the year. 
However, the two will be at full strength today and we should see a repeat of of their earlier mammoth showdowns. When they were sophomores, DiLucia escaped with a 6-4 win in the third set, and last year Kass pushed DiLucia to a third set again, only to fall 6-2. 
"They have had some terrific matches each year," said Irish 
see MEN 1 page 17 

Senior tri-captains offer strong leadership to Irish 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
Three's a crowd, unless you're going into battle. 

That's probably the way Irish baseball coach Pat Murphy felt when he assigned seniors Joe Binkiewicz, Craig Counsell and Cory Mee as this year's tri-captains. 
Under his regimen for their fourth season, the mature trio embodies Murphy's militaristic virtues of leadership, team-play and determination. Their role, then, is to bestow this attitude on other members of the team. 
If there's a veteran among Murphy's generals, it's Binkiewicz. He also served as the team's sole captain in his junior season. 
"I was greatly honored by it," he said. "It was something I wanted to do and I'm glad my teammates supported me and voted me captain and I enjoyed it." 
"Being a captain on this team, the coaeh always told us there were no extra duties," explained Binkiewicz. "The coach basically told us to be ourselves. We lead by example." 
see BIG 3 I page 15 

Women look for last win 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 

Today marks the end of a roller coaster ride for the Notre Dame women's tennis team. 
The Irish travel to Michigan this afternoon to close out a regular season full of ups and downs. 
After jumping out of the gates with a 3-1 record. they stumbled. losing seven of their next ten to fall to 6-8. They have hovered around the .500 mark since then, but they have not been able to surpass that all-important milestone. 
Today's match otTers the Irish (10-10) the opportunity to finish a rocky regular season on a winning note. 
But. Michigan will not go down without a fight. The Wolverines are not the most talented team on Notre Dame's schedule, but they probably carry the most depth, a factor that could play an important part in today's match. 
"Michigan is really deep," Irish coach Jay Louderback ex­plained. "They're not as good at the top as some of the teams we've faced, but there isn't much difference between their number one and number six players. They're as balanced as any team we'll play all season." 
see WOMEN I page 16 





