
--------~-----------­

1&42·1992 
SESQUICl Nlf NNIAI. NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 138 TUESDAY , APRIL 28 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Prof: War,
Senate to consider arts often
co-ed housing issue 
By CARRIE KINSELLA to research the project. combined News Writer Research has seemed a key to 
By ANNIE VENESKY 

gaining the administration's 
News Writer 

The Student Senate resolved approval in the past, according Monday to form a task force to to Student Body President Greg 
War has been a common

examine the co-residential Butrus, who mentioned that the theme in literature, music andhousing issue, responding to a resolution for pre-final study art throughout history, accord­recent survey in which 2,000 days passed quickly because it ing to University of Wisconsin 
students indicated support for was "well-organized" and 
Professor Dick Ringler. 

such an option. "well-researched." 
Ringler gave a multi-mediaThe goal of co-ed housing, Since co-ed housing is an is­

presentation entitled "War,

Senate members said, is to im­sue over which the student Peace, and the Arts" at Notre prove male-female relations on body and the administration Dame, Monday. 
campus. A 1988 Student are likely to be divided, the Government Report also Senate resolved to "appoint an • Dresden remembrance/ showed overwhelming student independent task force to study page 3 support for co-residential the means of implementing op­
Humans have been and con­housing. tional co-residentiality." 

tinue to be enculturated withTyler Farmer presented the The task force will also "assist war, he said. Artistic represen­initial resolution, which rec­the University administration tation of war extends as farommended that the Notre Dame and other relevant parties in back as Neolithic times. andadministration introduce co-ed the possible implementation of early artists often depicted bib­housing. After extensive optional co-residentiality at 

lical events such as Caan's

discussion by the Senate and Notre Dame," according to the killing of Abel and in the cruci­
students, the proposal was 
see SENATE/ page 4 fixion of Christ. 
amended to provide a task force 
"The Trojan Women," a play by Euripedes, "the poet of the world's grief," indicts war in

Two Yugoslavian republics form new state 
general, Ringler said. Through the play, Euripedes questionsBELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) emony staged by Serbian pendent Macedonia. 

why a God would permit the

-Two republics of Yugoslavia 
President Slobodan Milosevic, The West, weary of Balkan extensive suffering of children on Monday recreated the re­which included hoisting a new strife and wary of Milosevic's during war. 
mains of their dismembered Yugoslav national flag. pledges of peace. is demanding War has also been a favoritecountry into a new, Serbian­It was the last flag in Europe concrete action from Serbia to theme of painters throughoutdominated state. to drop the Communist red star curb violence in Bosnia­history, Ringler said. GeneralsThe "Federal Republic of but otherwise retained the blue, Herzegovina and relinquish ter­and military leaders have often Yugoslavia," less than half the white and red stripes of ritory captured by Serbs there been portrayed and glorified in size of the defunct six-member Yugoslavia, a federation and in Croatia. 
an effort to commemorate war.

federation, was proclaimed in founded in the ruins of World Hours after the proclamation, Ringler explained that littlethe Belgrade parliament by the War I and reformed after World Bosnian authorities in Sarajevo denunciation of war probablyrepublic of Serbia and its lone War II. ordered the federal army to 
occurred since upper class

ally, tiny Montenegro. The new The European Community is remove its 100,000 troops in members were themselves pa­state hopes to inherit the inter­likely to grant limited recogni­Bosnia. But Gen. Milutin trons of the arts, and becausenational recognition and privi­tion while opposing the new Kukanjac, commander of most war seemed to be a necessaryleges of the former Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia's immediate entry troops there, earlier had told institution at that time.
Leaders of the new country into international bodies, Dutch reporters the army will not But anti-war paintings soonpledged its formation would spokesman Dig Istha said. EC withdraw. 
became abundant, Ringler said. 

halt the ethnic war that de­foreign ministers meet Friday in The 51-member Conference Many artists, such as Broidlestroyed the federation founded Lisbon, Portugal, to discuss the on Security and Cooperation in and Picasso, painted depictions at the end of World War II. The status of the new state. Europe has threatened to expel of the "malevolence and crueltywar has claimed more than Macedonia also has broken Yugoslavia if violence in Bosnia of which human beings are ca­10,000 lives since June, when from the federation but has not is not halted by Wednesday. 
pable.

Slovenia and Croatia seceded, gained the same recognition as "I hope that the proclamation 
The definition of peace as

followed by Bosnia-Herzegovina the other new states because of of the new state will mark the "the absence of something badthis year. opposition by EC member end of the agony and chaos," 
rather than the presence of

The United States and the 12 Greece, which fears its own Milosevic said after the cere­something good" is problem-
European Community nations northern Macedonia region mony in Belgrade, the federal boycotted a proclamation cer-would be coveted by an inde-and Serbian capital. see ARTS/ page 4 
22 underage students cited at lounge Saturday 
By JULIE BARRETT tavern and permitting minors to Assistant News Editor loiter. The students charged were The Stop Underage Drinking Michael Semo, Michael Schreck 
and Sales (S.U.D.S.) police force and Michael Fox of Dillon; together with the South Bend Eileen Sullivan, Julie Gaddis and Indiana State police cited and Molly Flood of Le Mans 22 Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Hall; James Downey of Keenan and Holy Cross students for Hall; Rebecca Zurcher and being minors in a tavern during Katherine LeBeau of a raid of Cap n' Cork Lounge at McCandless Hall; Laura Lavigne 
11:56 p.m. last Saturday night, and Kathleen Crossen of Walsh according to Sgt. James Moon Hall; Richard Carrigan and ofS.U.D.S. Sean Hurley of Morrissey. 
Moon said that S.U.D.S. had Also cited were Aimee Terry been watching the bar after an of Siegfried; Joseph Mattio of underage drinker was arrested Fisher; Erich Miller of Alumni there on April 12. An Hall; Mary Phelan of Lewis Hall; undercover cop who was at Cap Eve Beale of Howard Hall; n' Cork, 441 E. La Salle St., Shannon Ryan of Pasquerilla Saturday night informed East; Luis Torres of Stanford; 
S.U.D.S. of the presence of Jennifer Walsh of Holy Cross underage drinkers there, Moon Hall; and Jonathon Shean, of 
The Observer/Jake Peters 

added. Campus View.
Sing, sing, sing 
Two other citations, Moon The penalties for the class B said, were issued to the bar misdemeanor of minor in a
A Notre Dame ensemble group performs at "Hallelujah Night, • held last night in Stepan Center. 
owner for having minors in a see RAID I page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Forget the aerial circus; run the ball 
Knute Rockne may have 
implemented the forward  
pass,  but  were  he  to  
return  to  Notre  Dame  
today,  he  would  be  
shocked at the mockery  
that has resulted.  
In the two years since  
the Notre Dame football  DAVID KINNEY  
team went 23-1 and won a  News Editor  
national championship ..  

the Fighting Irish have discovered Rick Mirer and a passing game. With it, we have witnessed the beginning of the demise of Notre Dame football. 
This weekend's Blue and Gold Classic, though only an intra-squad spring game, showed no signs of anything different. 
Rick Mirer was decidedly spectacular, completing 13 of 23 passes for 190 yards and two touchdowns. Although Mirer has sometimes demonstrated an ability to pull the team out of a tight, late-game crunch, he has failed to prove that he is a leader that can win the big game ­like the Orange Bowl, or Michigan, Tennesee or Penn State games last year. 
One might argue that the Irish offensive production was astounding last year, averaging nearly 40 points a game. A closer look, however, reveals that in top-10 match-ups, including Michigan and Penn State, the offense sputtered. Notre Dame's new-found passing-attack was ineffective against even the semblance of good defense. 
All of this proves that Notre Dame Stadium was never intended to be an aerial circus. Until the alumni association and our commercial sponsors decide to construct scaffolding around the perimeter of the stadium in order to add 20,000 more seats, and until diamond-vision shines over end zones emblazoned with the words "national Catholic research university," Notre Dame cannot rely on a dominant passing game. 
As was proven against the University o Florida in this year's Sugar Bowl, dive behind a good offensive line is the only play needed in Notre Dame's playbook. 
Clearly, it is difficult to compare our 1990 and '91 line-ups to a team touting the likes of Tony Rice, Ned Bolcar, Anthony Johnson, Chris Zorich, Tim Grunhard, Frank Starns, Stan Smagala and Wes Pritchett. The heart and determination those players demonstrated seem to be lacking in recent years. 
Saturday's game served as a reminder the the running game is what works in Notre Dame's system under Head Coach Lou Holtz. Back-up Quarterback Kevin McDougal's well-executed options, the footwork of freshman standout Lee Becton (in particular, his refusal to throw the ball in flashy trick plays) and the powerful run­ning of fullback Jerome Bettis revived memories of better days. 
Days when Notre Dame coaches realized that running the ball and stopping the run are fundamentals that cannot be far from mind. 
If Rockne were to return, he would have a few words to say: "Run the ball, Lou. Run the ball." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff: 
Production: Accent: Cynthia Ehrhardt Cheryl Moser Melissa Cusack 
Lab Tech: News: Pat Me Hugh Jennifer Habrych Sandy Wiegard Systems: 
The Czar­Sports: Signing Off Mark McGrath Jon Halloran­
Staying Viewpoint: Cheryl Moser 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obselver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reseMKI. 

~ ·~--~~-----------------------­
Tuesday, April 28, 1992 

? Sunny and warmer !. Tuesday. Highs near  
60.  Increasing  
cloudiness  and  
cooler  Tuesday •  
night.  Lows near 40.  
Cloudy and warmer  
Wednesday  with  a  
50  percent chance  
of showers.  High in  
the low 60s.  
TEMPERATURES  
ClttAnc orage  H 52  L 35  
Athens  73  54  
Atlanta  56  42  
Bogota  89  90  
Boston  50  38  
Cairo  79  55  
Charlotte. N.C.  61  42  
Chicago  47  36  
Cleveland  51  34  
Dallas Detroit  76 55  56 43  
ndlanapolis  45  39  
Jerusalem London  64 59  45 46  
Los Ageles  80  61  
Madrid  86  50  
Minneapolis Moscow  57 46  30 36  
Nashville  57  45  
New York  65  45  
Prsssur9 H L HIGH LOW  ~'~~ SHOWERS  lSSJ RAIN  T-5TORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  Paris Philadelphia Rome Seal11e South Bend  64 63 79 69 50  48 48 48 56 35  

 :··:·:·  :;:·  
 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Court sa~s teen must receive tranfusion 
•CHARLE I ON, W.Va. I'he state won clearance Monday to force blood transfusions on a teenager with sickle cell anemia who has suffered strokes because of her condition but refuses transfusions on religious grounds. The state Supreme Court unanimously refused to block a lower court order that would require Latoya Heath to undergo the transfusions. Heath, 15, of Shepherdstown, is a Jehova!t"s Witness whose religion prohibits blood transfusions. A judge ruled that she faces up to a 70 percent chance of suffering a serious, possibly fatal, stroke in the next three years if she does not undergo the transfusions. Charles B. Howard, the youth's court-appointed attorney, said he may appeal the case to federal court. 

CLEVELAND -Vice President Dan Quayle apparently owes his home state of Indiana about $1,100 in income taxes because of an error on his tax returns, the Cleveland Plain-Dealer had reported. Quayle under-reported more than $34,000 in speaking fees for 1986 and 1987, when he was a U.S. senator, the newspaper reported Saturday. Quayle spokesman David Beckwith said he did not believe there was an error. Quayle reported $104,931 in speaking fees those two years. He paid state taxes on $62,051 after deducting charitable contributions, travel and other expenses. Although they would not discuss Quayle's taxes on the record, Indiana officials said the type of charitable deductions claimed by Quayle were not permitted under state or federal tax rules 

OF INTEREST 
•ND/SMC Right to Life will have a brief wrap-up meeting for all members at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 27 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
...m... 
v 0.28 COMPOSITE ...n. 409.81 v 0.45 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3338.77 ~ 4.48 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD -0--$ 1.80 10 $336.90/oz. 4.8¢ to $3.965/oz. 

218,817,500 225.42 

Former police cbjef stole $2 6 million 
•DETROIT -The city's former police chief was so cor­rupted by power he stole $2.6 million from a secret police fund as easily "as ordering a sandwich," a prosecutor said Monday in closing arguments. William Hart served for 13 years as chief of the nation's fifth largest city police force. He is charged with embezzling $1.3 million from a secret police fund and authQrizing payments totaling another $1.3 million to phony corporations controlled by the former civilian deputy chief, Kenneth Weiner. The prosecutor said Hart, 68, had complete control over the department's secret service fund, which was intended to pay informants and finance undercover drug purchases. Hart also is charged with witness tampering for allegedly persuading one of the women to lie to a grand jury. Hart's wife, Laura, testified she and her husband were able to live above their means because she saved hundreds of thousands of dollars over the years. 

INDIANA 
200 arrested at IU's little 500 
•BLOOMINGTON, 
Ind. -About 200 people arrested during Little 500 weekend picked up trash Sunday as part of their punishment. They were among 27 4 people arrested on alcohol-and drug-related charges during the festivities at Indiana University, which this year included the annual bicycle race and a John Mellencamp concert. Two Monroe Circuit courts were opened Sunday to handle the arrests. The 200 who picked up trash found the easiest way to resolve their misdemeanor charges was to accept guilt and enter a pretrial diversion program, officials said. The criminal records of those who successfully complete the program show an arrest but not a conviction. Monroe County Prosecutor Robert T. Miller said publicity about the road crew work, along with the rainy weather, helped to reduce arrests from last year's 400. 

•Renowned 
Irish singer Nofn Nf Riain will perform at a recital of Celtic and English spiritual song today at 8 


p.m. at Sacred Heart Bascilica. The performance is spon­sored by Schola Gregoriana. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1941: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled that blacks traveling on railroad cars were entitled to the same level of quality and service given white passengers. 

• 
In 1945: Italian dictator Benito Mussolini and his mistress, both of whom had tried to flee advancing Allied forces, were captured and executed by Italian partisans. 

• 
In 1967: Heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali refused to be inducted into the Army. 

• 
In 1969: French President Charles de Gaulle resigned his office. 

• 
In 1981: Secretary of State Cyrus Vance resigned 


following a failed attempt to rescue U.S. hostages in Iran. 
I . 
The Observer 

Tuesday, April 28, 1992 page 3 

Visiting prof commemorates WWII bombing of Dresden 
By ALLISON McCARTHY tal, was located on the Elba Ringler. News Writer River. and was well known as a Ringler said one witness de­magnificent city of culture, the scribed the bombing as creating 
An audiovisual presentation Florence of Germany, Ringler the "ignition of one of the worst at Notre Dame on the bombing said. It had been compared firestorms ever witnessed by of Dresden incorporated testi­with Paris, Vienna and Rome human beings." mony of several witnesses to and had produced such musical the World War II bombing of genius as Wagner and Strauss. The extent of damage to the the German city, and of several city left the death count at an American and British military The date of the allied bomb­indefinite number, but esti­personnel involved. ing was Feb. 13, 1945, Shrove mates show that between 
"Hatred cannot put an end to Tuesday, better known in the 30,000 and 130,000 were killed hatred. In this world, that United States as Mardi Gras. At by burning and asphyxiation, he never happens. Only nonhatred the time, the city was at twice said. can end hatred. This is an its normal capacity of nearly eternal law," said Dick Ringler, 630,000, Ringler said. Over According to a German professor of English and 1,000,000 people were in the woman who at the time was a Scandinavian studies at the city, due to the enormous influx girl in Dresden, the Americans University of Wisconsin, quoting of German refugees retreating purposely targeted the people a Buddhist work. He said the westward, away from the of the city who were trying to quote expressed the moral Russian border. escape and not the communica­behind his presentation tions networks or the railroads Monday, "Requiem for a City: The attack on the city was of Dresden. The Bombing of Dresden, completely unexpected, Ringler February, 1945." said, leaving Dresden and its Ringler ended his program 
The lecture included the people totally vulnerable to the with a memorial to Dresden eyewitness accounts of allies. It included three air and its citizens: a slide show American writer Kurt raids, two British and one accompanied by Shostakovich's Vonnegut, at the time a young American, which smothered the String Quartet number eight, infantryman, who details the city with thousands of tons of "Elegy for the City of Dresden," Dresden bombing in his book, explosives, enough to make its which the composer dedicated Slaughterhouse Five. glow visible from over 250 "to the memory of the victims of 
Dresden, the old Saxon capi-kilometers away, according to fascism and war." 




ampus inistry ... ...Considerations 

Transthons 
When I first came to Notre Dame as a freshman in 1968, I moved into Stanford Hall. There, rather quickly, my section mates and I settled into the typical routines of studying, playing sports, and complaining about the campus social life. (Joe Namath had been heavily recruited to play quarterback at Notre Dame just a few years before all this, and had been widely quoted as saying that he didn't want to live at any school where you had to swim across a lake to get a date.) We found out that the Shuttle Bus to St. Mary's worked just fine, and so we were happy. 
Dorm parties typically went very late on Saturday nights, and everyone slept in on Sunday mornings. In the 'last few minutes before 1:00 pm, the whole campus would jump out of bed and rush to the dining hall where the big treat for Sunday lunch would be huge, broiled steaks. (This was before the time when people were afraid of red meat.) 
Sunday afternoon was a lazy time for conversations, reconstructing and exaggerating the events of the weekend, while we read the newspapers and watched TV. By 4:00pm, it was time to really wake up, hit the showers, and go to Mass in Keenan-Stanford chapel. 
The rector of our neighboring dorm in those days was Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C., the same guy who still writes every week in The Observer with Letters to £!. Lonely God. We loved this priest. 
In those days the Roman Catholic church was in a bit of an uproar. The liturgy had changed its shape dramatically. Priests and nuns and religious brothers were leaving their ministries in droves. The American political scene was in turmoil, particularly as young people were leading opposition to racial discrimination and the Vietnam War, and finding their elders harder and harder to trust. My father and I hardly ever spoke-we only hollered. "Me and my generation" he said, were attacking everything he ever believed in -his understanding of his country, his understanding of the Church, his place of authority in his own family. Most of my friends and I found very little to trust in our heritage of patriotism and religion, except Griff. 
Week after week, we would join hundreds of others who crammed into Keenan-Stanford chapel for 5:00 pm Sunday Mass. The musicians reminded everyone of Peter, Paul, and Mary, probably because most Masses ended with Ifl had£!. Hammer. The sermons were always directly aimed at us and our concerns. The room was dark, everyone sat on the floor, and the altar was filled with dozens and dozens of candles. We felt close, as friends, protected, and holy. 
At the end of freshman year, my Dad came to pick me up from school and happened to go to our favorite Mass. Fr. Griffin tried to say something to us about how it might be difficult that summer trying to pray in our own parishes, where things were straighter and likely much duller. My father a ways swears t at ri to every o y not to ee too a y i t ey i n t go to Mass much, but just to wait until we got back together the next Fall and things would be fine again. Actually, that's not what Griff said. He was trying to help us prepare for leaving campus and moving out into a different milieu. 
The end of the school year, and a little touch of nostalgia as I prepare for my 20th college reunion this summer, call all this to mind for me. 
Several students in recent days have asked me how they can survive spiritually during the summer or after graduation, when they anticipate going to places where liturgy will be less satisfying than they are used to here in the residence halls. 
One thing is sure, we must keep praying. I believe it is important to find a place where prayer is meaningful to us, where liturgy is well celebrated, even if it means going to several parishes in search of style and content that satisfies. Surely the Lord is present in every moment of prayer and available to the people in every Eucharist, but it is also true that bad, boring liturgy is an attack upon faith, and only makes belief more difficult. So I would say that there is nothing wrong in searching a bit for a place to pray that makes you happy. 
But the other thing is that all our training and experience in liturgy here on campus is not meant to be for us here alone. Students who know a bit about good prayer ought take that knowledge to their parishes and help make things better there. Young graduates moving to new cities need to call 
others of similar concerns and start prayer groups for support. The world is a banquet, and we shouldn't live on crumbs. We are the church, we need to build the church. 
These transitions must be made, nothing stays the same. Let us take what we know and use it where we go. Have a good summer, and/or a great life. 


Torn McDermott, C.S.C. 
ass 

eniors are invited to audition to read at the Baccalaureate Mass. Six readers ill be needed. uditions will be held at 4:00pm, on Tuesday and Wednesday, April28 & 29, 
t the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
oordinator: Sr. Teresita or information: Peg Houk 239-7091 
-~ ~ ~~~-­
The Observer 
page 4 Tuesday, April 28, 1992 
Real estate group: March home sales Mideast peace talks at highest level in over three years 

resume in Capitol
WASHINGTON (AP) -Sales of existing homes were unchangnd in March, but remained at their highest level in more than three years, a real estate trade group said today. 
Sales rose in both the Northeast and South, but fell in the Midwest and West. 
The National Association of Healtors said sales of previously owned homes totaled a seasonally adjustnd annual rate of 3.49 million, unchanged from the Fnbruary rate. 
It was the highest level of sales of previously owned homes since resales hit a 3.50 million rate in February 1989, the Healtors said. 
Dorcas T. Helfant, the Healtors' president. said the sales aetivity signifies that both the housing market and the economy are getting back in shape. 
"The economy is finally mov-

Existing home sales 

Seasonally adjusted annual rate, millions of units 
ing clearly toward recovery and we're feeling it not just in housing but other areas as well,» she said. "Consumer con­fidence appears to be on the rebound, new construction is blossoming -in economic terms, we're finally seeing signs of spring." 
Helfant said housing prices remain affordable despite the recent uptick in mortgage rates, which rose from 8.76 percent in February to 8.91 percent in March, according to surveys by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
The Healtors said the median price of an existing home in March was $104,000, up 5.4 percent from a year earlier. The median means half of the homes cost more and half less. 
The Northeast posted the biggest increase in sales, up 
12.2 percent from February to an annual rate of 550,000. 
WASHINGTON (AP) ­Mideast peace talks resumed Monday with Israel offering to hold elections among Palestinians in the territories and Syria making the conciliatory gesture of lifting restrictions on its Jewish community. 
Israeli spokesman Benjamin Netanyahu called the offer of "pilot municipal elections" on the West Bank and Gaza "the largest experiment in democracy in the Arab world." Palestinian spokeswoman Hanan Ashrawi. who in past rounds accused Israel of stallin~, said this time there was a 'distinct possibility" of progress. 
The talks will be held through Thursday and should be resumed in Rome within a few weeks, 

Source: National Association of Realtors AP 
Shuttle launch rescheduled for daytime 
CAPE CANAVEHAL. Fla. (AP) -NASA on Monday delayed next week's scheduled launch of the new shuttle Endeavour by three days so the spaeeship can lake off in daylight. 
Endeavour was to have em­barked on the satellite-rescue mission at 8:34 p.m. EDT 


Raid 

continued from page 1 
tavern include up to 180 days in jail and a $1,000 fine. According to Sgt. Moon, the students with no previous eriminal records will most likely receive a pretrial diversion program and have to pay a fine and do community service. 
The Cap n' Cork Lounge owner will have to appear at a hearing before the Alcohol Beverage Commission in Indianapolis. The bar's alcohol license could be suspended or revoked, Moon said. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
resolution. 
Senators determined that the task force should draft a workable document in favor of co-residential housing. The resolution passed by a vote of 14 to 2. The task force will be selected this fall. 
In other Senate business, the group passed a resolution to Monday. Liftoff is now set for 
7:06 p.m. EDT on May 7; Endeavour has until 7:55 that evening to get off the ground. 
NASA's acting associate ad­ministrator for space flight, Tom Utsman, said officials re­viewed the eriteria and decided it would be "prudent" to delay 
Arts 
continued from page 1 
atic, Ringler said, in that it has led us to the perception that peace is dull. 
"The true opposite of war must be as dynamic as war," he said. Although not popular with Christians, many polytheistic religions present the "war god" and the "fertility god" as oppo­sites, he said. So human birth is seen as the triumph over war. 
Professor Ringler is a profes­sor of English and 
reduce the number of ticket sales necessary to hold an SYR dance from 70 to 55 percent of a hall's population. 
Freshman Class Secretary Amy Connolly was appointed next year's temporary freshman class representative. This representative is provided by the Senate Constitution until the freshman class council chair is elected. 
The funds for AdWorks, Irish Gardens, and ND Video will now be kept in three separate accounts. 
BRING YOUR BOXES TO US AND SAVE SSS ... ~ · 
.--s o\l't\-~-t 
..·· \)9 -· ' 
. ,~G~-tG:~61'a . 
e.'f\\99  ~1 ~  -CALL AND COMPARE  
-'  ~  '  PRICES  
MON • SAT 9:00 • 5:00  

ALL MAJOR CREDIT CARDS AND PERSONAL 
CHECKS ACCEPTED UNIVERSITY CENTER DIRECTLY BEHIND JEREMIAH SWEENEY'S ADJACENT TO MACRI'S DELl 
the flight so detailed pho­tographs and documentation eould be made for analysis. 
NASA spokesman Mark Hess could not explain why officials didn't opt for a daylight launch in the first place. Mission man­agers settled on a Monday launch just last week. 
Scandanavian studies. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University, re­ceived his Master's Degree from the University of Wisconsin, and his doctorate degree from Harvard in 1966. He specializes in Renaissance and Norse literature. 
Netanyahu, a close aide to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, told reporters. "Today we began a real discussion," he said. 
Even so. the State Department, hosting the negotiations again, said it expected no quick breakthroughs on Palestinian self-rule or other issues in the fifth round of talks since October. 
"This is going to be a hard, step-by-step process," spokeswoman Margaret D. Tutwiler said as Israeli negotiators met with a joint Jordanian-Palestinian delegation and, separately, with Syrian and Lebanese groups. 
Palestinian spokeswoman Ashrawi said her delegation had received, and would study Israel's proposal to begin municipal elections among the 1. 7 million Palestinian Arabs. The idea is to choose leaders to work out arrangements for Palestinians to take control of their own day-to-day economic, judicial, educational and other affairs. 



Bey Big Smootli, 

Happy 21st! 
Flex one more time for us! 
From Diane, Michelle, Kim and the Gang. 






Seriior Month Update 
Tues: Senior Night at HACIENDA 
Wed: GRAFFITI DANCE at the Alumni Senior Club $2 cover for Center for the Homeless 
Thurs: BARNABY S PIZZA $4 all you can eat from 6-9 
Tuesday, April 28, 1992 The Observer page 5 

KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) ­Rival Muslim guerrillas battled to a standoff Monday over the southern approach to Kabul and ignored a reported cease­fire agreement as they fought for control of the Afghan capi­tal. 
A convoy carrying members of a guerrilla-led interim gov­ernment that supported more moderate factions left Pakistan for the 120-mile journey over rugged roads to Kabul. The rebel leaders planned to for­mally replace the fallen regime of President Najibullah. 
A truce that Pakistan's gov­ernment said was agreed to between the leaders of radical fundamentalists and more moderate guerrillas went un­heeded -perhaps in part be­cause word had not reached the fighters. Red, green and yellow tracer bullets and flares illumi­nated the sky above Kabul into the night. 
Roughly 90 percent of the city was under the control of a coalition commanded by Ahmed Shah Masood. But it failed to dislodge the radical fighters of his bitter rival. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, from their strongholds. 
Both sides fought with tanks, rockets and machine guns. Masood's fighters were sup­ported by soldiers and even a warplane from Najibullah's military. 
Masood and Hekmatyar both want to establish an Islamic state, but they differ on how strict the theocracy should be. 
In Islamabad, Pakistan's cap­ital, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, Javed Hussein, said the leaders agreed to a truce. He did not release any details, but Pakistan's state news agency said the agreement was medi­ated by Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and se­nior Saudi Arabian officials. 
Along with the United States, Saudi Arabia provided much of the financial support for the 14­year Muslim rebellion against the Soviet-backed government. Pakistan provided a haven for many Afghan rebel groups. 
The 50-member interim gov­erning council, which was formed last week by most of the rebel factions, originally had planned to fly to Kabul on a Pakistani military plane. But the leaders decided to go over­land because Hekmatyar's troops threatened to shoot at any plane approaching the capitaL 
In Washington, State Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler said Masood's forces seemed to have. fared best in fighting that began Saturday after rebels advanced into the capital. 
"Hekmatyar seems outclassed militarily and isolated politically," she said. 
She said the Afghans should seek a political solution involv­ing a broad-based transition 
'""""""""""""""'''''""'""'"'"'''''""'' ~ SUMMERSTORAGE ~ 
~ "IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO SAVE $$" ~ ~ CONSOUDATED LEASING CORP. ~ 
\ T STO E ~ 
\ AN ALTERNATIVE WAY 0 R \ ~ COMPARE • IT'S CHEAPER ~ ~ SECURELY • IMMEDIATELY -ECONOMICALLY ~ ~··o SITES TO STORE TRAILER ~ 
Sl W .~ 
~ 1) COUNTY LINE BElWEEN ST. ~ ~ JOSEPH AND ELKART COUNTIES~ 
\ ..,
\\ 2) BENDIX ROAD NEAR AIRPORT ~ 
\ \ 
~ LOAD IN OUR YARD-NO EXTRA CHARGE OR~ 
~ LOAD ON OR NEAR ND/SMC CAMPUS FOR A~ ~ SERVICE CHARGE OF $80. ~ \ TRAILER SIZE COST/MONTH ~ ~ 451 X s· $100 ~ 
., ., 
~ 42I X s· $100 \ 
~ • X g• $ 0 ~\ 
\ 
\ GROUP STORAGE IS ENCOURAGED ~ ~ CALL NOW TO RESERVE YOUR TRAILER:674-0533
"''"''"'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''"" ~ 
Control of Afghanistan 
Major rebel factions and the provinces they claim to control. 
[ill Jamiat-e-lslaml Moderates commanded by Ahmed Shah Masood, an ethnic Tajik. 
!]] Hezb-e-lslaml Radical fundamentalists led by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, an ethnic Pathan and bitter enemy of Masood. Both groups favor an Islamic state but differ on how strict the theocracy should be. 
IJI Hezb-e-lslaml (breakaway) Faction headed by Yunis Khalis. 
O Councils Comprised of either elders from dominant tribes or multiparty commanders. 
ESl Jamil-ur-Rehman Ultra-orthodox Muslims. 
two other shops smoldered. 

Fighting was concentrated on two hilltops facing across the highway leading south from Kabul. But scattered skirmishes also flared in the city center and in other pockets held by Hekmatyar's troops. 
In the heaviest fighting, Hekmatyar's fighters withstood bombing by a Soviet-built fighter-bomber piloted by a Masood loyalist as well as tank barrages and an infantry as­sault against their position on Martyrs' Hill. 


7 jailed for explosions in Mexico 

GUADALAJARA, Mexico (AP) -Authorities on Monday jailed seven officials accused of negli­gent homicide for sewer explo­sions that claimed at least 191 lives. Officials warned that the area around a government oil storage facility was still dan­gerous. 
The defendants appeared at a preliminary hearing Monday afternoon at the state prison outside the city. They stood in their green prison jumpsuits as the judge read charges that in­cluded negligent homicide, causing damage and injury to others, damage to public com­munications and violation of federal environmental laws. 
The homicide charge makes the officials -four from the local Pemex oil company and three from city water and sewer departments -ineligible for bail under Mexican law. Arrested defendants are as­sumed guilty and must prove their innocence. 
An eighth official, Jalisco ur­ban development secretary Aristeo Mejia, was hospitalized with an apparent heart attack. A ninth, Mayor Enrique Dau Flores, obtained a temporary restraining order against his arrest. 
government. 
U.N. 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose plan to restore peace collapsed with the fall of Najibullah on April 16, met in Tehran with Iranian leaders to seek help in stopping the fighting. Iran sup­ported some of the smaller Muslim rebel factions, primarily from Afghanistan's Shiite minority. 

U.N. 
special envoy Benon Sevan, who accompanied Boutros-Ghali, planned to re­turn to Kabul on Wednesday, 

U.N. 
officials said. 


The civil war has claimed an estimated 2 million lives and driven 5 million people from their homes. 
The capital's 1.5 million peo­ple were caught in the middle as battle lines shifted through­out the city. 
"This was my whole life!" cried Artiqzadeh Afghan, a shopkeeper trying to remove Russian lampshades and Polish paint from his store before it burned. Down the road, flames leaped from a store hit by rocket-propelled grenades and 

German foreign minister plans to resign in May 
BONN, Germany {AP) ­
Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the world's longest-serving cur­
~~ntth~o';;~i~~~~st:~ ~~~;~~ 
reunification, announced
Monday he was resigning as G~~~agni;~t~c~~~~~~r. the federal construction minister, 
was named to succeed the 65­year-old Genscher, considered the country's most popular 

po~~~~a~tzer. so. is the first 
~~~~ t~~~~~t;~e j~~~e~~u~ 
comes from the same party as 
g:~~~~!;: the liberal Free Genscher, foreign minister for 18 years, said in a tele­vision interview he wanted to make way for the ne~tgen·
eration ()f politicafleaders. Heart problems had made
him conscious of his age, he said. 
~If I were five years younger and only 18 years in office, I would continue," he said. 
"I have no intention of sit­ting back in my easy chair.'' he added, promising to con­tinue working as a member of Parliament. 
"The standing of Germany in Europe is clearly defined," he said, summing up his work the past few years to unify Germany and set western Europe on the path to political and economic union. 
Opposition politicians con~ !tr:e~:~s~:;·sg~s~~~~=n~ 
crisis for Chancellor Helmut Kohl's embattled government. 
rs p9puhtrtty has be~n, g becans~ of the high 
.cb··..oest····twseoefntheea19s·.··t90 aunndificawtieosnt 
Germany. 
c.;..:.;.;_-~~__.__.....:......~---;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==:::===::::::::::::~ 
Correction 
Due to incorrect information provided to The Observer, it was reported in yesterday's edition that Sam Rauch received a minor in consumption citation Friday. Rauch was not charged. The Observer regrets the error. 



page 6 The Observer Tuesday, April ~8. 1992 




Californians beginning to clean up after earthquake 
SCOTIA, Calif. (AP) 
Millworkers restacked lumber 
Monday and firefighters hosed 
the remains of the town's cen­
ter, which caught lire during a 
series of violent earthquakes 
that caused about $51 million in 
damage. 
"I guess it's unemployment," said John Mock, pointing to the black hole that once was the lumber store where his wife, Arlene. worked. "That was our only income." 
Cleanup efforts also were un­der way in Fortuna, Hio Dell, Petrolia and Ferndale, small towns in Northern California "Lost Coast" region damaged by Saturday's magnitude-6.9 temblor and two sharp after­shocks early Sunday. 
Ninety-five people were in­jured, none seriously, according to an informal survey of hospi­tals. 
The Hed Cross, which had complflted 65 percent of its survey by Monday, said 308 homes were damagp,d by the 

Waiting to practice 

Jonathan Fay, Karen Mack, Steve Boness, and Jeremy Mayernik, wait in the hallway of the band building before practice is set to begin. 
quake, and 247 were uninhab­itable. 
About 1,000 people registered at shelters in Rio Dell and Scotia, but only about 100 ac­tually slept at the two centers. 
"Because of the magnitude of the two aftershocks, we're finding many people are reluc­tant to stay inside buildings. They are using tents (and) sleeping bags," said Elizabeth Quirk, a Red Cross spokeswoman. 
The state Oflice of Emergency Services estimated damage at $51 million. Gov. Pete Wilson declared Humboldt County a disaster area and county offi­cials said Monday they'll ask the Bush administration for a federal disaster declaration, making damage victims eligible for more aid. 
The quakes spared the large Scotia complex belonging to Pacific Lumber Co., which op­erates the company-built town of neat frame houses, but knocked over stacks of lumber in the yard. 

About 700 mill workers were asked to report to work Monday to begin cleaning up, said Pacific Lumber President John Campbell. 
The first serious aftershock hit at 12:42 a.m. Sunday and measured 6.0 on the Richter scale. The second, magnitude 6.5, hit at 4:18a.m. 
Both were centered near the spot where the first quake struck, south of Eureka, about 270 miles north of San Francisco. People as far away as Fresno, 460 miles to the south. felt the second after­shock. 
Scotia resident Hazel Sarlund said the first aftershock was bad enough. Then she saw the red glow in the sky. 
"It was terribly upsetting," Sarlund said. "It felt like the end to everything was coming." 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 


Source: National Geographic. U.S. Geological Survey 

Perot supporters begin petition drive in Indiana 
AP 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -About 200 Ross Perot supporters have kicked off a petition drive to get the Texas billionaire on the Indiana ballot for the November presidential election. 
"I felt strongly -very, very strongly -about him as a president, so I turned down a job to do this full-time. There's probably no other person I would do this for," said Kristina Seay, 23, a recent college graduate who heads the Perot Petition Committee in Marion 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
Design Editors 
County. 

Perot needs 29,919 signaturfls of mgistered voters to be on the ballot in Indiana this fall. 
About 200 people from around the state were in Indianapolis over the weekend to train for the petition drivfl, which began Sunday afternoon. 
Perot supporter Houston Macy, 61. said he doesn't un­derstand the criticism Perot has gotten for wanting to run the country as a business. 
Jackson says he would run with Clinton 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Jesse Jackson, after twice suggesting that he should be Bill Clinton's presidential running mate, to­day said he would be honored to serve if selected but that he wasn't trying to exert pressure. 
"I have consistently said that the eventual nominee of the party has the option of whom he will recommend to be on the ticket," Jackson said in a 




Class 
continued from page 1 0 
THE GAUCHOS would like to thank our great "sixth man" who supported us all four years. A special thanks goes out to the men of Stanford. and the women of Farley, Knott, and PW. Thanks tor everything. 
THE GAUCHOS Dave Bose Rob Vazquez Mike Toner Keith Tower Pete DiGiovanni Phil Coughlin Jerome Heppleman 
Thanks to all the Fifth men of the GAUCHOS: Phil Coughlin, Jerome Heppleman. Phil and Jerome, it was thanks to you guys we could win it all. 
THE GAUCHOS 
The Generics as playing I 
Its a party on Haggar Terrace 
Wed. 29th form 8·11. Everyones's invited! Sponsored by SMC junior class I 
Christ+"i", Kansas bites. 

statement. "I have also consis­tently said that such discussion is premature and diversionary." 
The New York Daily News to­day quoted Jackson as saying that "I've got the experience and I've got the votes. I see my­self as a running mate for the Democratic Party." The news­paper further quoted Jackson as saying he was "prepared to 

Now Aeeepting Applications for: DJ's for I992-93 School Year 
Pick up applications at Info. desk in LaFortune DeadUne: MAT .1, s:oo PM Questions Call James @ %39-75%.1 
react" if his offer to serve on the ticket was ignored or re­jected. 
And in an interview this morning with AP Network News, Jackson hinted that he might withhold backing from a ticket that did not include him. "I have supported it all these years, not being on the ticket, but things do change," he said. 
Paid Position 
ICAMPUS REPS WANTED I 
To market our programs on campus. 
The perfect job for those bound for graduate school! Look at the advantages: 
• 
Generous compensation! 

• 
Work on your campus! 

• 
Set your own hours! 

• 
Earn BIG commissions! 

• 
Have fun while you work! 

• 
Earn a FREE LSAT, GMAT, GRE or MCAT Prep Course! 


TED. TONY, LANCE, WAYNE , and all the others. 
CONGRATS ON GOING OUT WITH A BIG BANG I HERE'S LOOKING FORWARD TO MORE IN ALUMNI NEXT YEAR! 
LOVE, MICHELLE, JULIE, HILARY, ROSIE, POLLY, ETC. 

KAREN FORDHAM­ITS NULL AND VOID. WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO ABOUT IT? 
CZAR, WE MISS YOU ALREADY 
RICH, CHEER UP, WE MISS YOU ALREADY SO STAY! 

. ...................... O...........--........................................ A.......... A 
.... -· •••A.·~--.·~---··-----­
·'--.\ ...y 






Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 28, 1992 page 7 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...........••......... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor •••••.••...••.....Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ••.•.......•• Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ..•......••• Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor .••..••....Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND/SMC community is not The NO women's basketball will return 
immune to AIDS threat  next winter to take the campus by storm  
Dear Editor: As we are  avoiding  our  a part of life, even at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's.  Do sports writers really have a clue about the articles that  Kristin Knapp  be successful, but only with the players who want to participate  
homework, we have decided to  Unfortunately, our beliefs in our  they print?  This question has  Guest Columnist  in reaching that common goal.  
come forth and address an is­ Catholic University as a type of  haunted me for the ten years  
 If someone is unhappy here,  
sue with which we are con­ haven from the evil world may  that I have participated in  dropped in order to make our  then it is in their best interest to  
cerned.  As we become older,  keep the reality of this disease  competitive sports. I have come  schedule more competitive.  go where they think they will  
wiser, soon to be alumni, we  hidden.  to the conclusion that sports  The articles have also neglected  find happiness.  Losing one  
are realizing that we are soon  The purpose of this university  writers are only concerned with  to mention that we played the  good freshman does not mean  
to  enter  a  much  more  is to educate the students and  printing  a  story,  never  defending National Champions,  that the basketball team is  
"unsheltered" world.  Yet, even  better prepare them for life.  completely  interested  or  Tennessee, to a 3-point loss in  headed for a downfall. As Chris  
with this thought, we feel that  There  are  student  groups  concerned with printing the  front of a crowd of over 8,000  Kennedy mentioned in his letter  
we should point out that this  presently on campus who have  truth.  fans.  Where is the support?  to the editor, there are ten other  
life "under the Dome" is not as  been involved in educating  After reading several articles  How can students attack the  exceptionally  talented  ball  
sheltered as we have been led  students on HIV/AlDS.  in The Observer, in particular  women's basketball program  players  who  deserve  some  
to believe.  However, without the  ac­ "Questions linger on future of  when so few students even at­ credit for their efforts and two  
We feel one major issue has  knowledgment of this disease  womens' basketball team," I  tend the games?  incoming  freshmen  who  
been ignored here at good ol'  as a  true threat to this com­ became frustrated at the lack of  When the men's or women's  deserve a chance.  
ND.  This issue is AIDS.  Many  munity, students will still main­ support and the. blatant attack  basketball teams do not per­ The media has also neglected  
of us have been blind to the  tain a false sense of security.  on the future of the women's  form up to the fans expecta­ to mention one freshman who  
possibility of Domers and SMC's  Hopefully, it will not take public  basketball program.  tions, sports writers seem to  will be with the team next year,  
having this disease, but look at  disclosure of a student testing  As a member of the women's  find plenty of extra time to  Letitia Bowen. Letitia has been  
the figures.  positive with HIV to awaken our  basketball team I am disap­ point out the weaknesses of the  a wonderful addition to the  
Do we really think that we  concern.  pointed in the lack of support  coaching staff and the program  program, not only for her ex­ 
are so special that we are im­ Not until November, when  by the student body and the  as a whole.  ceptional gifts as an athlete, but  
mun.e? Parietals do not protect  Magic Johnson announced that  criticism that we have been re­ Furthermore, sports writers  for  her  dedication  in  the  
you against AIDS, nor does the  he is HIV positive, was the  ceiving.  There is no need to  should concentrate on reporting  classroom and her constant  
Catholic faith-only abstinence.  heterosexual community truly  question the future of women's  the  facts  and  leave  the  support as a friend.  This team  
Our  concern  has  been  scared.  basketball here at Notre Dame.  judgement calls for those of us  wants to be successful.  Those  
increased with what we believe  We urge the administration  The team is committed to  inside the program who at least  of us who are staying have the  
to be truths and not rumors of  and student body leaders to  representing the University of  know the complete story.  Leave  dedication and the determina­ 
students presently involved on  pursue this issue, now, before it  Notre Dame in a positive man­ the program alone and let those  tion it takes to be successful.  
both campuses that are infected  escalates and explodes on this  ner and hopes to be supported  of us who want to play, play!  The Notre Dame women's  
with HIV.  campus, as it is everywhere in  for their efforts.  The articles in  The women's basketball team  basketball team will be back.  
We feel that this issue needs  this  country.  HIV/AIDS  is  The Observer have questioned  is  made  up  of  a  group  of  We had a disappointing season,  
to be more openly addressed by  infecting  the  lives  of  our disappointing record of 14­ individuals striving to attain a  but we will be back to take this  
the student body leaders and  uneducated and ignorant young  17 after a  20-win season but  common goal, and those who  campus by storm!  
the administration.  There  people.  never  once  mentioned  the  are not willing to give of them­ To the students who have  
should be anonymous testing  Let's just hope that the mem­ stronger strength of schedule.  selves for the better of the team  never seen a women's basket­ 
done by the health services in  bers of the Notre Dame and  Teams such as Penn State,  only hamper the success of the  ball game, I think you should  
order to get Notre Dame statis­ Saint Mary's communities can  Purdue  and  Georgia  were  program.  The Notre Dame  come watch us  ... you just  
tics.  The disease is exponen­ become immune to this disease  added and weaker teams were  women's basketball team will  might be surprised!  
tially increasing in younger  instead of becoming part of  
people-high school and college  those statistics.  
age.  
One scary figure  we  have  Sarah Esterline  
 
seen is that one out of every  Off-campus  
200 college students is infected  Joe DiMario  
with HIV.  This may not be the  Grace Hall  
 
case at Notre Dame, but we  Kathleen McKinney  
should not be so naive to think  Off-campus  
that this is not the case.  Sex is  April 23, 1992  
 
OOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY  


Vt=RYGCl?o, 7lft?l7'1!
OKAY, ()(Jf/3T fXX.t/N, aJHifT'5 7Ht3
tUfiAT MONTH IS
&Va<Ya--1£/ tf.IHO f,lffALfff}RU
IT? M!CHAtt.:~
!<JICWStf.IHAT A14>Br5I !ZA50N!T/5 / NeetJ7lJtt:J:£ NOW! 7Uf7'12 ~IIB6HT. 
/ d 0 
'Why are you wearing that? I can't see your breasts.' 
Oliver Stone to a female reporter 

Why are you thinking that? Submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 

Accent 
page 8 Tuesday, April 28, 1992 
'Pageant of the Virtues' 
The Notre Dame Schola Gregoriana choir will present St. Hildegard of Bingen s Ordo Virtutum 
By JACK WALTON 
Accent Writer 
On Thursday April 30, at 8 p.m. in Sacred Heart Basilica, and again on Sunday May 3 at St. Matthew's Cathndral, the Schola Gregoriana of the University of Notre Dame will perform a spiritual music drama, the Ordo Virtutum ("Pageant of the Virtues"), written and composed by St. Hildegard of Bingen. 
Fabian Lochner, a PhD student at the Notre Dame Medieval Institute, and musical director of the Schola Gregoriana, explained that this informal choir was founded four years ago, performing Gregorian Chant at local liturgies. Last year, the group became more ambitious and planned this event. The group consists of graduate students, faeulty, and staff. and they are always on the lookout for new undergraduates. Many have some musical experience; others have none, stated Lochner. 
Lochner calls St. Hildegard "one of the greatest woman saints of the Catholic Church." A Benedictine abbess in 12th Century Germany. her "gift of vision and prophecy" survives in her three books, which are "very important spiritual sources," and the Ordo Virtu tum is from the first of these, Scivias ("Know the Ways," ca. 1151). said Lochner. Her goal was to aid Christians in understanding notions, such as the place of mankind in the cosmos, the Fall. and redemption, stated Lochner. 
The Ordo Virtutum, explained by Lochner, presents the inner struggle of a human soul, torn between the call of the Virtues and the temptations of the Devil. The Devil is not given music, only speaking and screaming, and challenges the Virtues, claiming that they do not even know themselves. The Virtues proceed to introduce themselves (charity, chastity, temperance, et. al.) and the revelation is so glorious that the soul is won over. The Devil is bound; the 


soul joins the Virtues. 

The setting for this musical drama is the spirit world. The voices are unsexed, and express their spiritual paradigms in music that, like Gregorian Chant, is not polyphonic, but linear, said Lochner. St. Hildegard is revolutionary in her unique, personal, and unprecedented handling of melodies and tonal qualities; "She adds an emotional depth to the music that is unknown to Gregorian Chant," observes Lochner. 
The crucial part in the drama, that of the soul, will be sung by soloist Noirin Ni Riain, an Irish recording artist, stated Lochner. Lochner is a long-time fan of her work, which has involved everything from scholarship in the Gaelic tradition of spiritual songs, to her work as an ethnomusicologist in the Irish countryside, documenting women's songs. 
She travels the world on tour, and Lochner saw her in his native Belgium, performing a set that included Gaelic music, Gregorian Chant, and selections from St. Hildegard, he remembered. Lochner had her in mind espncially for this project. As well as performing on April 30 and May 3, Noirin Ni Riain will give a solo recital at Sacred Heart on April 28 at 8:00 p.m. All the shows will be free, but donations are encouraged and appreciated. 
Lochner, along with graduate student, Jennifer Blatchford, extends sincere thanks to the many Arts and Letters departments who have contributed to the program, and particularly to the Medieval Institute and its director, John Van Engen. They also thank John Houghton, a grad student who has translated Hildegard's Latin and will narrate the shows in English. 
If all continues to go well, said Lochner, for the Schola Gregoriana, courses will be available to both graduate students and undergraduate students in order to allow people the chance to take part in this work while receiving credit. The group encourages anyone interested to join them in their projects. 

Swayze plays in movie wasteland 
By PETER BEVACQUA 
Film Critic 
Holand Joffn's ("The Killing Fields") latest film stars Patrick Swayze ("Ghost," "Dirty Dancing") as a young American doctor who leaves the western world in order to search for a new identity, and a reason to continue living. He, compelled by some form of self-induced paranoia, forsakes the medical profession. and finds himself adrift in India. 
Max Lowe, played by Swayze, becomes involved with an Indian peasant, Hassari Pal (Om Puri). llassari and his fam­ily were forced from their vil­lage by drought and famine, and migrate to Calcutta, the "City of Joy" seeking new urban wealth. 
The premise seems quite in­teresting, but what follows is a futile attempt to incorporate postmodernism into a desolate land. Lowe initially refuses to put his invaluable medical practices into use at the local clinic, but he undergoes a moral conversion on his road to 
City of Joy 

Produced by Jake Eberts and Roland Joffe Directed by Roland Joffe Now playing at University Park West 
* 
(out of five) 

Damascus-more a trail of boredom and tears than a road toward new understanding. 
Swayze's character is a mix­ture of two immortal Hollywood personas: Shane and Elliot Ness (with a medical degree). He is the quintessential G­man/gunslinger with a stethoscope for a six-shooter, and he is forced to do battle with a character so reminiscent of Marlon Brando's portrayal of Don Corleone that 'I found myself laughing aloud at such a self-conscious overkill act. 
This is the 1990's, and it is true that postmodernism is very chic. However, what Roland Joffe fails to realize is 

friendship in "City of Joy". 

that peasant characters over­(responsible for the sounds of come by a constant state of Sergio Leone's Spaghetti poverty and hunger are not go­Westerns) soundtrack make the ing to hail a dirty dancing doc­film somewhat bearable. But, tor as their savior. The film is sorry to say, there is dialogue, not convincing-it tries to be and plenty of it. The local clinic spiritually uplifting, and fails. is run by Joan Bethel (Pauline 
The stunning cinematography Collins) who utters statements and Ennio Morricone's which are so didactic that even Socrates himself would be re­pulsed. 
If you have an urgent desire to see the Indian landscape via film, rent "Gandhi." If you feel compelled to see Patrick Swayze, rent "The Outsiders." Stay away from "City of Joy," it is a cinematic wasteland. 

Accent
Tuesday, April 28, 1992 page 9 



Philosophy of design 

Architecture exhibit honoring Jaime Bellalta is on display in Architecture Building 
By LAURIE SESSA architecture student and member of Assistant Accent Editor AlAS. In his designs, he is concerned with sight and life, paying attention to 
In honor of the retirement of one of the site on which the building will rest, Notre Dame's most respected professors, Shiber stated. the American Institute of Architecture "His approach is much more Students (AlAS} is sponsoring an exhibit prophetical or spiritual,...that we are of the work of Jaime Bellalta, associate doing the work of God," said Kuhlman. professor of architecture. Bellalta believes that architecture can 
Having taught in the Notre Dame be seen as "the search for rebuilding School of Architecture since 1976, paradise." Much of his professional work Professor Bellalta has profoundly includes residential, urban and religious influenced many students of architecture projects in Chile, England and the United according to David Kuhlman, a fifth year States. architecture student who has worked One of his most famous projects is the closely with Bellalta. Benedictine Monastery in Santiago, Chile working on the design of a mid-size and is very personal to us," he added.
Bellalta was born and raised in which is now being nominated as a --. 
house in Mishawaka. Bellalta taught his studio class fromSantaigo, Chile and received his degree national landmark according to 
According to Kuhlman, Bellalta is his house and student houses through
in architecture at Catholic University of Kuhlman. "His is the only modern work unique as a teacher. "Professor Bellalta dinner and discussion every WednesdayChile. He was then awarded a full schol­that has been nationally recognized in 
has been night. talked about things in
arship to the Graduate School of Design Chile," Kuhlman stated. a teacher in many ways: "We 
through his personal involvement in the general, and it usually ended up withat Harvard University, where he received Sacred Heart Parish, his vocational him talking about his experiences," said his Masters of Architecture in 1952. Bellalta has also done much local 
outlook and teaching of architecture, Kuhlman.
After post-graduate studies at the work, including a proposal for the 
and his value for love and family," said "His students will always value theUniveristy of London, Bellalta returned interior renovation of St. Bavo's Parish Kuhlman. insight and advice he has provided for
to teach at Catholic University in Church in Mishawaka, and a proposal 
In the classroom, "there isn't really a both architecture and life in general,"Santiago, and then came to Notre Dame for the ChapeVConference addition to the teacher-student atmosphere. He's more Kuhlman stated. 
in 1976. Fatima Retreat House which is intended of a friend and does not treat us like Bellalta's work is on display on theBellalta is a "philosophical designer," to be built. Bellalta has also designed we're on a lower level," said Kuhlman. second floor of the Architecture Building said Amy Shiber, a fourth year two houses in the area, and is presently "He has integrity for what he believes until May 17. 
'Faces ol Women' 
African awareness is emphasized in anew film 
By FRED KROL 
system based on money Accent Writer rather than bartering. The film deals "with the problems 
In an attempt to increase involved with learning to the Notre Dame community's cope with money," said awareness of African culture Desire Ecare, the film's di­and traditions, the African rector. -­Student Association will be 
showing Desire Ecare's Singing and dancing, along award-winning film, "Faces with festivals and ceremonies of Women." are woven together in the 
The film presents "the most film to provide insight into insightful look at women in village life. "The dances and African society," says the songs... symbolize the Guillaume Zounlome, acting whole spirit of the film, its president of the African celebration of joy," said 
Student Association. "It Ecare. points out the day-to-day English subtitles accom­struggle of women to get pany the film which was their own rights and have featured at the Cannes Film men respect them," he said. Festival and the London Film 
"The struggle of women is Festival in 1985. not particular to Africa," The fiim has won awards notes Zounlome. He adds such as the Award of that the universal nature of International Council of this struggle is the main Television and Movie at the reason the Association chose explain why the film has no "Men deserve one thing only because she is not trusted Cannes, London, and San the two-part film from the rating. After the affair, the -to be deceived." and is unable to do anything Francisco Festivals and is the Ivory Coast. suspicious husband attempts without her husband's first movie from Ivory Coast 
to reassert his power by The second part of the film permission. She also risks to ever reach New York. 
The first story tells of an stating, "You're my posses­depicts the struggles of alienating herself from her "Faces of Women" will be unhappy wife who has a sion, my slave." The wife re­Bernadette, a woman trying village by competing with shown Wednesday at 7 p.m. steamy affair with her torts by calling her husband to succeed in the male­men. in the Annenburg Auditorium husband's brother. The "Blue "stupid." During the tension dominated business world. In addition, Bernadette of the Snite Museum. Lagoon"-type love scene may a chorus of women sing, Her efforts are complicated must adapt to an economic Admission is $1. 
j 
J 

~~­

Tuesday, April 28, 1992
page 10 The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classijieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES  $350.001 DAY PROCESSING PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL YOU. NO EXPERIENCE  SUMMER SUBLET TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE  airline ticket from SB to NWK (0/W) on 5/18 (Male). Call 288­9806.  WANTED: A rational explanation lor the termination of the NO wrestling program. Must be logical, coherent,  WHOOPS I Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving  
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242.  FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO  TRUE and must not make the  doctor and his stay at home wife  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  THE ASSOCIATES  BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO,  Airline ticket from Soutr. Newark, NJ on 5/9  Bend to  university look like a bunch of money-hungry idiots. If you can help  would like to discuss Baby's future with you. Please call us collect  
TEMPORARY POSITION:  LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKING  also selling bedroom dresser  us out, call Athletic Czar DICK  anytime. (219) 462-5250.  Debra  
$$FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat  DISTANCE TO CAMPUS.  Michael277-2151  Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1­ and Michael.  
Pandora's Books  MARKETING RESEARCH  CALL ERIC X1392  800-GET-CLUE.  
corner of NO ave & Howard  ANALYST -Proficient in Paradox,  CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN  Round trip, nonrefundable air  P.S. What team is next on the list?  Irish Music and Dance  
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  Lotus and Multi Mate. Responsible for developing and analyzing  X1376 CALL KEN X1385  tix -CHICAGO to JUNEAU, ALASKA leave Chicago on 5-24,  J  U  N  0  R  S  Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN  
SUMMER TOURS TO EUROPE,  statistical reports.  returns on 5-31, 617$ value lor  
AUSTRALIA AND THE GREEK  Prease call (219) 271-6342 to  Summer Sublet  ONLY 400$! call312-988-7964­ u  000 THE COPY SHOP  000  
ISLANDS.  15-19 days. All  schedule an interview.  Furnished 2 Bedroom  leave message.  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  LaFortune Student Center  
expenses paid including meals.  272-9817  N  OF RESUME AND DISK TO  We're Open Everyday!! I  
$1395-$1798. Call Contiki Tours  NO PROFESSOR & GRAD.  Selling contents of off-campus apt.,  CAREER & PLACEMENT  
1-800-950-1 037  STUDENT NEED BABYSITIER  Share 2Br house with M Grad  vcr, beds, couches and more.  SERVICES FOR RESUME  to the athletic dept.:  
ext. #2.  FOR FALL FOR 2 CHILDREN, 2-1/2 VAS. & 6 MOS., IN OUR  Student. Laundry, Garage, Garden, Porch, Air Cond. Avail May 1. $260  Call273-1814 for specifics.  0  BOOK NOW!  your time is gonna come -led zeppelin  
Allegro  HOME WHILE WE ARE WORKING  plus phone. 288-3878.  78 Volkswagen Van Outstanding  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
THERE. 10-20 HRS./WK. CALL  California Condition. 120/K.  R  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  to the star chamber under the  
A contemporary cafe with a  233-6901. $5/HR.  ATIRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN  Automatic, White. $1, 750. 616­ dome:  
touch of the old world.  LOVELY OLD VICTOF.liAN BLDG.  684-7203.  s  lyin', cheating', hurtin', that's all you  
Located in the lower level of  Going to Chicago after graduation?  NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL  seem to do  
LaFortune Hall. Open 24 hours a  Me tool Looking for female non-smk  2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  U P S on CAMPUS  -Jed zeppelin  
day thru Thursday 5!7.  roommate(s). Karen 2770  RENTALS.  
89 MERCEDES ......... $200  We don't miss a day!  Ship  HOW WOULD I DESCRIBE FOUR  
TYPING AVAILABLE  BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 3  ONE WEEK TIME SHARE.  86 vw.......................$ 5o  your stuff home now and  YEARS UNDER THE MALLOY  
287-4082.  CHILDREN DURING SUMMER.  RENT $700 USA, $800 OTHER.  87 MERCEDES ......... $100  relax during Finals Week.  ADMINISTRATION?  
FULL-TIME, NON-SMOKING, AND  60-90 DAYS NOTICE  65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50  "DRIVES ME INSANE, TROUBLE'S  
Typing  RELIABLE. OWN  USE BY AUGUST 8  M-F  12-5  Sat. 11-2  GONNA COME TO YOU"-LED  
Pickup & Delivery  TRANSPORTATION A MUST.  616-435-5805.  Choose from thousands starting  ZEPPELIN  
277-7406  GOOD SWIMMER PREFERRED.  $25.  239-6714  
PLEASE CONTACT MICHELE  HOUSE FOR RENT  FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals  at  ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS  
TEXAS: I'm driving home for the  AFTER 5:30 AT 277-5374.  $150/mo. Call Paul287-2159.  Giveaway Prices.  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS  
summer to Austin and I don't want  801-379-2929  lower level LaFortune  A BABY! Young financially secure  
to do it alone. Want to help, call Bill  ALL NEW IN '921  SUMMER SUBLET: TURTLE CK  Copyright #IN11 KJC.  Catholic couple looking to adopt  
x4274  Distribute bumper stickers  and T­ NEED 3RD ROOMATE  X4070  "When people are at their worst,  and provide a loving home to an  
shirts.  Help America and your  88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K  that's when I do my best"  infant.  All Expenses paid.  Please  
Attention Notre Dame I SMC  wallet.  Call 1-800-584-0757 nights  2 bedroom Turtle Creek Townhouse  mil Hundreds below blue book! Jim  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more  
NEW JERSEY students:  or weekends.  -sublet during summer months  W239-6064/H273-9059  -Joe Godin  information.  
Luggage Truck loading on  Best Offer ­ x4073  
Thurs. May 7  6:00-8:00 pm  WANTED  ALASKA JOBS  My aunt dated George Bush and  ADOPTION  
Fri. May 8  12:30-2:30 pm  STATIONERY EXERCISE BIKE  WANTED: 3 FEMALE STUDENTS  $1000+/Wk, room, board, airfare.  now she wants grad tixl x41 08  Childless, Christian, Couple wishes  
all loading at Stepan  STAIR CLIMBER  FOR LG. HOME. $200/MO. PER  Now hiring. (503) 754-6051 ext. 8.  to adopt. Legal and medical paid.  
Pick up Sun May 10  COUNTRY SKI M/C OR NORDIAC  ROOM. LOTS OF AMENITIES.  SPOC -WATCH OUT FOR THE  Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­ 
Morris Plains 9:30-11:30 am  TRACK  YOU STUDY WHILE I TRAVEL &  LOFTS FOR SALE  TREESI! GOOD LUCKI LOVE  322-8187.  
CBA  2:30-4:30 pm  BOOK CASE AND VCR  ENJOY THE UTOPIAN LIFE. CALL  MOM, DAD, DIANE, CHRIS AND  
?'s call Matt VanderGoot  85621288-0730evenings  FOR APPT. PAUL 232-2794.  Call Shannon X4944  COLIN  I am a worm, slowly and surely  
x 1756 or  sinking deeper into the bowels of  
Keith McKeon x 4070  WANTED:  Female roommate to  HEY, all you party animals, the  LOFTS FOR SALE  •AUDREY GOMEZ  the earth, putting more desolation  

 help with off-campus rent for  FRAT HOUSE is available lor the  SEXY  between me and the universe  
LOST/FOUND  summer school, June 22-August 8. If interested call X1502  year 92-93. Make it the best year of your lite. Call 272-5509.  Airplane Seat 4 Sale I $75 for tray table and all! Call273-9316 Todayl  TALENTED EXCEPTIONAL VIBRANT  S  E  N  0  R  S  
LOST ­ gold ring with black stone  S U M M E A I N S. B . ?  EXTREME  E  
encircled by white rhinestones; lost  SENIORS  1 hideaway couch-$75  
in restroom of North Dining Hall  Want to sell your bicycle  sublet the newest, largest,  1 col. table-$5  Meg,  N  "NEW JOB LISTING"  
rather than take it home?  1-1/2 bath, most energy  1 cushion chair-$1 o  • FRIENDS FOREVER"  HANDOUTS AVAILABLE  
EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE  Call 239-5335 and ask for  efficient 2-bed appart. @  277-4491  AND  IN CAREER & PLACEMENT  
please call Elizabeth x1918  Walt.  Turtle Creek-for the same price of  •LOVE YOU ALWAYS!•  SERVICES  
the other 2-bd. appt.  Buy a cheap airline ticket to the  Love,  0  
LOST NO STARTER JACKET AT SR. BAR ON 4/23. DID YOU GRAB  Moving to Chicago area? '91 grad in western suburb looking for roomate.  X2447 CLEARLY THE BEST CHOICE  Emerald City, Seattle. Fly from South Bend to Seattle on  Land M  R  NOW  
THE WRONG ONE? LAUNDRY  Call Don 708-629-3608.  United May 19.  ATIENTION SUMMER  UPDATED WEEKLY  
TAG IN JACKET WITH LAST  TURTLE CREEK SUMMER  $150 OBO. Call Tom at 271-0571.  STUDENTS:  s  
NAME "ABBATE" AND NUMBER  CUTE BLONDE NEEDS HELP  SUBLET-PRICE NEG.;  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
"80001". CALL TONY@ 277-6048.  DRIVING HER COOL PINK CAR  FURNISHED. 271-1399  FOR SALE: '85 ISUZU I-MARK.  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  J  U  N  0  R  S  
TO MD/WASH. DC AREA  Ex. Condo, sunrf, Needs clutch  233-4767  
LOST Sun. 26 April at Huddle: A  ON 5/17. CALL MOLLIE 4999.  SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG.  $1 ,200, O.B.O. -283-4903.  u  
blue PHIL 244 notebook with my  NEAR N.D. WILL RENT  HAIRCUTS: $5.50  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF  
name, room number and phone number on it. My notes stink, but if  Palace Laundry is looking for a drummer for next year. If  INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT A DISCOUNTED RATE  TICKETS  Anyone going to be in  N  RESUME AND DISK TO CAREER & PLACEMENT  
you really want them I'll make you a  interested, call Tim at x1075 and  CALL2879624  Durham, NC next year?  SERVICES FOR RESUME  
copy and pay for it too. I just want  leave message. We would like to  Extended Catholic family  Looking lor a roommate.  BOOKS NOW!  
to be able to get a decent grade on  audition this week.  "Our Old House"  from NJ. Need as many GRAD  Call Amy X2860  0  
the final -please have a heart and if  Michigan Bed and Breakfast.  35  TIX as humanly possible.  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
you found my notebook call 4911.  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Mins. from Campus. (616)  Call Teresa x2899 to haggle  A  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
No questions will be asked II II  -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  435-5365.  If you like pina coladas,  
Free transportation! Room & Board I  FOR SALE:One-way plane ticket to  And getting caught in the rain,  s  
LOST ... SILVER CHAIN-LINK  Over 8,000 openings. No  A riverfront sharp home and  San Jose,CA lor May 9th-CHEAPII­ If you're not into yoga,  
BRACLET. Somewhere btwn. Frat  experience necessary. Male or  apartment lor rent weekends or  call Samx4863  II you have half a brain,  NEED: ld. or rhyth. GUITARIST  
House,Bridget's,&main circle on the  Female. For employment program  short terms. 219-257-9101/219­ If you like makin' love at midnight  summer &/or next year for the  
Wed. before Easter(4/15). GREAT  call Student Employment Services  291-6100.  PLEASE! Desparately need 1 grad  in the dunes on the cape,  Metha-tones.  
sent. value I $$Anne X2580  at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  tick. lor my Grandma-277-4491.  I'm the love that you've looked for:  call271-0742 or 288-4859  
4 Bedrm house for summer.  Write to me and escape.  
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST IIIII  Female roommate needed for  Furnished, less than 1/2 mile  Need 1 or2 grad tix. Let's make a  Take time to smell the roses! Apply  
Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50.  from campus, sale neighborhd.  deal. Ron 3315, leave message.  ELAN Top Ten  lor a position at Irish Gardens  
A Gold Claddaugh Ring.  Call 258-5702  Cheap rent!  AGNES x2769  10 Hey,did ya see this?  todayl Applications available at the  
Somewhere between:  One way plane tic.  9 Feathers  store, due Wed. 4/29  
PW and Keenan/Stanford  Attention bisexual women  SB to Denver ­ May 9  8 I had butt hair  
and  SALES PERSON WANTED FOR  (and other interested parties):  $80 Brian 287-5987  7 Some wierd crotch  Allegro  
PW and Lafortune  FOOD VENDING CART ON THE  Turtle Creek sublet available. Call  disease  
- Please, this ring has great  WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BE ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT  Rian@ X12091or details.  NEED GRAD. TIX -GALL 277­1958  6 It's hard without a hole 5 We didn't do it this slow  Now open 24 hours a day thru exam week!  
sentimental value. If you find it  SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE  Kicked off campus? Sexually  in Menudo  
please call X2873 and ask for Mary  OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288­ harrassed by your roommate for the  I NEED GRAD TIXJ  4 You'll never be Sean's butt  NEED $$$? RENT ME YOUR  
Jo.  1454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900  1992-93 school year? Three  call 273-9316 !!!  3 Whatever part of your body  HESBURGH GRADUATE STUDY  
NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS.  (adjective) guys are looking for a  sticks out the most  ROOM-ASAP-5/7/92 BIG $$  
Found silvr hoop earring by Law  Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris  BULLS PLAYOFF TICKETS  2 Lying on your boobs  CHRIS 273-9316  
School Weds. Left at securty bldng  Need Graduation Tickets BADLY ­ @ X1088 if you need us as much as  Home Game 7  1 Flat lighting?No,that's  
Will Pay BIG $. Ask for T.Rog at  we need you. We've been Philledl  1167 Kyle  just the dancers  DR. STAT; I'M FREQUENTLY  
FOUND: A blue Eddie Bauer  288-7341  GOOD LUCK TONITEI  DISENCHANTED WITH THE  
windbreaker on 2nd floor of  FURNISHED ROOM, KITCHEN,  NEEDED 2 Tickets to Graduation:  Love, Marisa+Anne  FACT THAT YOU HAVE  
Stanford. Call Dan-X2067 to claim  Need Rider to FL. after  AIR, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, 5 MIN.  call Neal 283-1159  PRACTICALLY TERMINATED  
it.  senior week -must drive  N. CAMPUS. 272-0615.  J -Thanks lor an incredible 3 years.  ALL COMMUNICATION WITH  
stick. Barbara X5099  This could be the start of something  THE COUNCIL ELITE. DR. LOVE,  
Lost-silver key ring with three keys between Knott and SlEds on Sat night. Call Pete at1698.  I FOR SALE FOR RENT I INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.'-----------..J Good rates. Save Money. Call me  I L.-1_PE_R_s_o_NA_L_s....... SENIORS  big I! Love T STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Into on semester, year, graduate,  THE SQUIRE AND I MISS YOU. LOVE, DOCTOR SIN/COSIN. MONEY TO LOAN Personal -Business  
WANTED  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153.  for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus.  E  summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  1-800-238-9755 Open 7 days 9a.m.-10p.m.  
N  "NEW JOB LISTING"  Melbourne. Programs start at  Bryan Reed. Phone # 713-699­ 
Even though MR. BUSH is speaking  2 Bedroom  ATIENTION: COUCH  HANDOUTS AVAILABLE IN  $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  2494.  
at graduation, my aunt still wants to  Walk to Campus  &MATCHING LOVESEAT, &  CAREER AND PLACEMENT  
come. Please help her out;Sell me a  $390 Month  RECLINER 4 SALE-MUST SEE­ SERVICES.  HELP! HELP! HELP!  HELPII  
graduation ticket. Call x4233  232 3616  $150 271-9165  0  The Lizard King lives on I Down with  Ride needed back to NEW JERSEY  
NOW  the Crustaceans!  after finals. Will help pay for  
MOVING TO LA?  New condo available mid-May  ATIENTION PANGBORN  R  gas/tolls. Please call Mike at  
I'm looking tor roommates to live  thru  mid-August.  COMPLETELY  FEMALES -1 YEAR NEW  Help Me, Please  x:3526.  
near Manhattan Beach after  furnished, incl­ 2 PERSON LOFT  S  UPDATED WEEKLY  
graduation.  uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2  TO SEE CALL X2341  I need graduation tickets if anyone  NEEDED: Ride back home to  
CALL JULIE x1342  bedrooms, 2 baths.  For sale: Pair of 100 watt Sony  has some they are not going to use.  Boston/New England Area.  Will  
Walking distance to NO campus.  FURNITURE FOR SALE  speakers.  Call Quinn at x2059 it you have any  help pay for gas and tolls.  Call  
Summer Roommate needed  Call Kathleen -277­ Beds, Couches and More  Call x1563  info.  Greg at x3526  
Turtle Creek apartment  1709.  CHEAP  
Call x2891  Call 277-361 0  Alicia ....  please, help me  see CLASS/page 6  

April 27, 1992 The Observer page 11 
last three games, he had a bet­the Bookstore commissioners. to be upset, rightly so, at the hit a lot harder in order to draw ter shooting percentage than When I needed information, fact that I misstated their spon­fouls.
Hoop 
Bose (19-30 to Bose's 15-31), they were more than willing to sor. 
pulled down 27 rebounds and help me. However, one error I suggest that the Bookstore
continued from page 16 
added so much in terms of in­(telling me that Ebony Side Of My final grief is with the ref­commissioners either eliminate seven points and seven boards tensity (look at his four steals in The Dome was sponsored by erees. I think that being a ref referees altogether or the to lead Bridget's. the final). Adworks when Ebony was re­would be one of the toughest commissioners bring in some 
Now for the tourney MVP. ally sponsored by Black Alumni things to do. However, the refs outside referees, such as high I thought Vazquez was the My dissatisfaction with the Of Notre Dame) caused the did not call things consistently. school refs to be impartial for 
logical choice for MVP. In the tournament teams leads me to members of Ebony and others Also, bigger players had to get the round of 16 onward. 
NFL DRAFT HHLSTA1S 
176, New England, Wayne Hawkins. wr, Southwest Minnesota. 177, Cleveland, Sherwin NHL playoff scoring leaders through AprilSixth Round Jones, db. Colorado State. 178, Seattle. Mike Frier. dt. Appalachian State. 179, 26:t41, Indianapolis, Shoun Habersham. wr. Tennessee-Chattanooga. 142, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh. Russ Campbell. te. Kansas State. 180, New York Giants. Corey Widmer. nt. Player, Team GP G A PTS PIMChris Burns, dt Middle Tennessee State. 143, Cleveland (from Tampa Bay), Rico Smith. 
Montana State. 181, Denver (from New York Jets), Jim Johnson. ot, Michigan State. 182, Nicholls, Edm 5 5 8 t3 tO wr. Colorado. 144. Los Angeles Rams, Joe Campbell. rb. Middle Tennessee State. 145. 
Atlanta (from Miami), Tim Paulk, lb. Florida. Murphy, Edm 5 2 8 10 6
Detroit (from Phoenix through New England). Larry Tharpe, ot, Tennessee State. 146, 183, Minnesota, David Wilson, db, California. 184, Tampa Bay (from Los Angeles Lemieux. Pit 3 4 5 9 0
Phoenix (from Green Bay), Brian Brauninger. ot. Oklahoma. t47, San Diego, Reggie White, Raiders). Ken Swilling. db, Georgia Tech. 185. Los Angeles Aalders (from Atlanta Oates, Bos 4 4 4 8 2
dt, North Carolina A&T. through Miami). Kevin Smith, rb. UCLA. 186, Kansas City. Erick Anderson. lb. Michigan. Hull, Stl 5 4 4 8 4
t48, Tampa Bay (from Cleveland). James Malone. lb, UCLA. 149, Dallas (from New 187, Philadelphia. William Boatwright,g, Virginia Tech. 188. Pittsburgh (from San Ridley, Was 4 0 8 8 0
England), Fallon Wacasey. te, Tulsa. t50, San Francisco (from Pittsburgh), Damian Francisco). Scottie Graham. rb, Ohio State. 189, Houston. Elbert Turner. wr, Illinois. Ciccarelli, Was 4 5 2 7 8
Russell. db, Virginia Tech. 151, Seattle, Michael Bates, wr, Arizona. 152, Minnesota, 190, Green Bay (from Dallas through Los Angeles Raiders), Christopher Holder. wr. Coffey, LA 5 4 3 7 0
Mike Gaddis. rb. Oklahoma. 153, New York Giants, Stacey Dillard, dt, Oklahoma. 154, New Tuskegee. 191, Miami (from New Orleans through Los Angeles Raiders), Dave Moore. te. Darrphouaae, Edm 5 4 3 7 2
York Jets, Glenn Cadrez, lb, Houston. Pittsburgh. 192, Chicago, John Brown. wr. Houston. 193. Denver, Jon Bostic, wr. Bellows, Min 5 3 4 7 8
155, Miami. Roosevelt Collins. lb. Texas Christian. t56, Los Angeles Raiders. Tony Nebraska. 194, New England (from Detroit). Jim Gray, dt, West Virginia. 195, Buffalo. Robitaille, LA 5 3 4 7 8
Rowell, c, Ronda. t57. Green Bay (from San Francisco), Mark Chmura, te, Boston Kurt Schulz. db, Eastern Washington. 196. Washington. Calvin Holmes. db, Southern Cal. Gretzky, LA 5 2 5 7 2
College. t58. Atlanta. Terry Ray, db, Oklahoma. 159, Kansas City, Tony Smith, wr, Savard. Mtl 4 0 7 7 2Notre Dame. t60, Philadelphia, Jeff Sydner, wr, Hawaii. 16t, Chicago, Mark Berry, db, 
Eighth Round Brown, Chi 5 0 7 7 10
Texas. 197, Indianapolis. Jason Belser, db, Oklahoma. 198, Los Angeles Rams, Ricky Jones, qb,
162. Houston. Mario Bailey. wr, Washington. 163, Cleveland (from Dallaa), 
Alabama State. 199, Cincinnati, Roosevelt Nix, de, Central State, Ohio. 200, Tampa Bay, MP GA SO AvgGeorge Wllllama, dt, Notre Dame. 164. New Orleans. Kary Vincent, db. Texas A&M. 
Anthony McDonald, rb, Texas Tech. 201, San Diego, James Fuller. db, Portland State. 202. Terreri 239 8 0 2.0t
t65, New England (from Detro~). Tracy Boyd, g, Elizabeth City State. 166, New Yorlk Phoenix. Eric Blount. wr, North Carolina. 203, Pittsburgh (from Green Bay), Darren Perry, New Jersey (1) 240 9 0 2.25
Jets (from Denver), Jeff Blake. qb. East Carolina. t 67, Buffalo, Nate Turner. te, db, Penn State. Pietrangelo 238 9 0 2.27
Nebraska. t68, Washington. Ray Rowe. te, San Diego State. 
204. New England (from Cleveland). Scott Lockwood, rb. Southern Cal. 205, New Hartford (1) 240 1 0 0 2.50 England, Sam Gash. rb, Penn State. 206, Pittsburgh, Hasham Ismail, g, Florida. 207, Roy 240 9 2.25
Seventh Round 169, Indianapolis, Derek Steele, de, Maryland. t70, Denver (from Tampa Bay), Ron Seattle, Muhammad Shamsid-Deen. rb, Tennessee-Chattanooga. 208, Denver (from New Montreal (1) 240 t 0 1 2.50 York Jets). Dietrich Lockridge. g, Jackson State. 209, Miami, Andre Powell. lb, Penn Moog 253 t 1 0 2.61
Geater, de, Iowa. t7t. Los Angeles Rams, Darryl Ashmore, t. Northwestern. t72, State. 210, Minnesota. Luke Fisher, te. East Carolina. Boston (0) 253 t 1 0 2.61
Cincinnati, Lance Olberding, t, Iowa. 173. Los Angeles Raiders (from Green Bay), Cunis Cotton, db. Nebraska. 174. San Diego, Deems May, te, Nonh Carolina. 175. Phoenix. Derek 
211, New York Giants, Kent Graham. qb, Ohio State. 212, Indianapolis (from Los Richter 1 t 9 3 1.51 Angeles Aalders). Ronald Humphrey, rb, Mississippi Valley State. 213, Kansas City, Jim Vanbiesbrouck t20 8 0 4.00
Ware, te, Central State, Okla. Jennings. g. San Diego State. 214, Philadelphia, Charles Bullough. lb. Michigan State. N.Y. Rangers (0) 240 t t 2.75 215, Pittsburgh (from San Francisco), Nate Williams, dt, Mississippi State. 216, Beaupre 240 tO 0 2.50 Atlanta. Derrick Moore, rb. NE Oklahoma. 217, Atlanta (from Dallas). Reggie Dwight, te, Washington (1) 240 11 0 2.75 Troy State. Mclean 298 14 0 2.82 218, New Orleans, Robert Stewart, nt. Alabama. 219, New York Jets (from Chicago), Vancouver (0) 300 t4 0 2.80 Vincent Brownlee, wr, Mississippi. 220, Houston, Bucky Richardson, qb, Texas A&M. 221, Draper 253 1 3 0 3.08 Detroit, Willie Clay, db, Georgia Tech. 222, Tampa Bay (from Denver through Dallas and Buffalo (0) 253 13 0 3.08

is now accepting application for the 

Cleveland), Mike Pawlawski, qb, California. 223, Buffalo, Leonard Humphries, db, Penn Tabaracci 273 13 0 2.86 State. 224, Washington, Darryl Moore, g, Texas-EI Paso. Essensa 2 7 3 0 6.67
following position: 

Winnipeg (0) 300 16 0 3.20 Ninth Round Hasek t04 4 0 2.3t 225, Indianapolis, Eddie Miller, wr, South Carolina. 226, Cincinnati, Ostell Miles. rb, Balfour 219 1 3 0 3.56 Houston. 227, Minnesota (from Tampa Bay). Brad Johnson, qb, Florida State. 228, Los Chicago (1) 324 18 0 3.33 Angeles Rams, T.J. Rubley, qb, Tulsa. 229, Phoenix, David Henson, nt, Arkansas Central. Cheveldae 226 12 3.19
Circulation Manager 

230. Green Bay, Ty Detmer. qb, Brigham Young. 231, San Diego, Johnnie Barnes, wr. Riendeau 73 4 0 3.29 Hampton. Detroit (1) 301 17 3.39

Circulation Drivers 

232, New England. David Dixon. dt, Arizona State. 233, Cleveland, Tim Hill, db. Kansas. Casey 301 1 6 0 3.19 234, Seattle, Larry Stayner. te, Boise State. 235, Pittsburgh, Elnardo Webster, lb, Minnesota (1) 301 1 7 0 3.39 Rutgers. 236, Miami, Tony Tellington, db, Youngstown State. 237. Minnesota. Ronnie Ranford 279 1 6 0 3.44
Must be available from lOam-lpm 

West, wr, Pittsburgh. 238, New York Giants, Anthony Prior, db, Washington State. Tugnutt 20 2 0 6.00 239, Phoenix (from New York Jets). Tyrone Williams, wr, Western Ontario. 240, Green Edmonton (0) 300 1 8 0 3.60 
Bav !from Los Anaeles Raiders). Shazzon Bradley, nt, Tennessee. 241, Philadelphia, Joseph 320 21 0 3.94 Ephesians Bartley, lb, Florida. 242, San Francisco. Darian Hagan, qb. Colorado. 243, St. Louis (0) 324 21 o 3.89 Atlanta, Keith Alex, ot, Texas A&M. 244, Kansas City. Jay Leeuwenburg, c, Colorado. Hrudey 298 19 o 3.83 
245, New Orleans, Donald Jones. lb, Washington. 246, Chicago, Mirko Jurkovic, g, Los Angeles (1) 300 20 o 4.00 Notre Dame. 247, Houston, Bernard Dafney. ot, Tennessee. 248. Dallas. Nate Klrtman. Barrasso 200 t 6 o 4.80
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 

db, Pomona-Pitzer. 249, Denver, Muhammad Oliver. db. Oregon. 250. Dallas (from Wregget 40 4 o 6.00 
~~~~;(;Q~~(;~~;(;Q~~~~;c;c;;~~~~;(;Q~~~~~;c~~D~e~t~ro~itJ).~Clhrl~s~H5a~ll~,~d~b~.~E;a~st;e2rn~C~a;ro~l:in~a~.25it.~B·u-ffa;l.o...C.h.ris._w.ailish~.~w~r,~S!t!a~nf!o~rd!.!2~5~2~,~~P·it.ts~b~u~rg~h~(~0)~~~2~4~0~2·0~..~0..~5~0~0...
W:, in ton. 5tlon PnwAII lh axas
~ 
Please Join Us f'or a Fireside Chat: "'"it:h Bishop E:m..erson. J. Moore 
Topic: 

The Challenges ofLife in the Inner City for an African-American Bishop 
Tuesday, April 28, 1992 7:30-9:00 p.m. 
Dooley Room at LaFortune Student Center (First Floor across from the Information Desk) 

CAMPUS 
-
MINISTRY 
UNUSUAL SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for sununer employment from May through September to instaU, operate, maintain, and repair radio, televbion, cable, and satellite equipment. TbU u ideal for a technicaUy·minded science/engineer student with a know-ledge of electricity and elec:tronia. The position u for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiftwork, and requires a valid driver's license with Commercial endorsement. Pleue apply at the WNDU Studios bv Mav 1st. 
ISTUDENT WORKERS NEEDED I 

We dl"e seeking part-tin1e student workers for a -­tmique grad school prep program. 
• Generous compensation Highly motivated, strong academic record Flexible hours Computer experience a plus! 
For more information, call 






illllkiN
EDUCATIONAl GROUP 
at 
South Bend • 273-1866 
I
I I 
' ! Competition causes men Rangers win 8-5; lead series 3-2 
page 12 The Observer April 28, 1992 
trouble at Drake Relays 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's track squad returned with a mixed bag of results after this weekend's meets at Drake and Ball State. 
Many of the team's usual top finishers struggled somewhat with inclement weather and the intense competition of powerful Midwest teams at the 83rd Drake Helays. Among those was eo-captain Hyan Mihalko, whose 201 foot javelin throw earned him <Jth place. 
Mihalko seemed neither pleased nor discouraged with his e!Tort at Drake, but was op­timistic about the improvement he has shown recently. 
"The last two weeks," he commented. "I have established an upward trend which I hope to continue and finish the season strong." 
The top finish at Drake be­longed to the 4 mile relay team, who finished 4th. The squad consisted of Shawn Schneider, Mike McWilliams, J.T. Burke, and Pat Kearns. 
At Ball State, several young Notre Dame athletes shined, with one freshman qualifying for the IC4As. 
.John Cowan, running the 3000 meter steeplechase, be­came the second Irish runner to qualify for the IC4As in that 


Track 
continued from page 16 
Pfeffer. "I throw better when am not concentrating; it's natural." 
For Pfeffer, having the whole track team watch her place for the last time, was an emotional experience. 
"Usually the team is scattered at track meets but not this last time". said Pfeffer. 
Overall. according to Pfeffer. the Belles held together as a team considering the harsh weather and injuries. "It was hard with the weather and we did the best we could", stated Pfeffer. 
The rest of the Belles were finishing off the season with style. Sophomore Katie Linehan had a season best in the 100 meter-dashing off 13.6 sec­onds. She ran 28.1 seconds in the 200m having another sea­son best. 
"She had her best time in the 1OOm which she worked hard for". said Szczechowski. 
Linehan. along with sopho­more Cheryl Fortunak • were named next year's track co­captains.
-· 
The 200m seemed to be the magic race with three Belles all 
Grand Opening April 3rd 
Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIAUZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road %3 8 Ironwood Next to 7, Ga5 StaUon Mon-Sat 10 am to 10 pm Sun 1% noon to 6 pm 
(219) 273-9545 
event. His time of 9:14.57 earned him first in the event as well. 
Of this performance, head coach Joe Piane noted, "John really impressed me by winning the first steeplechase he's ever run in his life. It is a really good start for him and an indication of some good things to come from him." 
Another 1st place finisher at Ball State was Sophomore Chris Hoss, who ran the 400 meter hurdles in 54.47 seconds. This win was the first of his collegiate career. 
" The race was run under windy, rainy conditions," Ross remarked. "and it was not my best time this year. But the conditions slowed everyone down, and fortunately I ended up on top. I'm still .1 of a sec­ond from qualifying for the IC4As and hopefully I can do that next week." 
Other top Irish finishers in­cluded another 400 meter hur­dler, Dan Amitie, who wound up 4th. In the 800 meters. Mike Dierks ran to a 2nd place finish, shading fellow Irish runner Chet TafT, who came in 4th. Jim Trautman completed the 5.000 meter course in just over 15 minutes. landing in 2nd place. 
having personal bests. Sophomore Darcee Bishop ran 
28.6 seconds, Christy LaBarbera ran 29.3 seconds and Candi Gossman ran 31 sec­onds. 
"You always look for im­provement as a sign of a good season and it was always there", said Szczechowski. 
The Belles will only lose three runners while bringing in a more experienced team next fall. According to Szczechowski, recruiting is underway and 
there  have  been  verbal  
commitments.  
"It makes me  feel  so good  

about this season but I am looking forward to track al­ready", said Szczechowski. "But I will miss the seniors. They have been inspirations to the whole team." 
"I am going to miss Lynn, Sharon and Trudi(Sullivan) and I will miss working with the freshman", stated Macklin. 
At the end of the meet, the Belles carried Szczechowski off the field. "We yelled 'Ski' and he was laughing ...it was a great end", said Pfeffer. 
"I was videotaping and they carried Ski off.", said Macklin." He's like your dad. I always looked forward to seeing him at practice." 
NEW YORK (API -The New 
York Rangers rediscovered their 
power play and put themselves 
one game away from the second 
round of the Stanley Cup 
playoffs. · 
"I guess both teams were 
ready to explode offensively," 
New York's Mike Gartner said 
after scoring three goals, two 
on the power play, to lead the 
Rangers to a wild 8-5 victory 
over the New Jersey Devils on 
Monday night. 
"Both teams have been play­ing such close, tight-checking games. It was just a matter of time before they blew things wide open." 
The Rangers built a 5-0 lead with the help of three power­play goals, then withstood a fu­rious rally by the Devils, who twice came within one goal in the final period. 
A victory in Game 6 at New Jersey on Wednesday night would put the regular-season NHL champions into the Patrick Division finals against either Pittsburgh or Washington. 
"It certainly wasn't a defen­sive battle," said Rangers de­fenseman James Patrick, "but it's two more points in this series and that's the important thing." 
The Rangers had struggled offensively in the first four games, mainly because they were only 1 for 22 on the power play. In Game 5, though, they scored on all three opportuni­ties with the extra man. 
After Gartner staked them to a 2-0 lead after one period. the Rangers scored three straight goals in the first 7:56 of the second, two of them on consec­utive power plays. 
New Jersey goaltender Chris Tern~ri, who had been spectac­ular in the four previous games, didn't make it through the 



rstudentS, 
Work Overseas 
Work legally on short-term prog"cmS: • Britain • Ireland • France • • Gennany • Jamaica • New Zealand •Costa Rica 
COl.llCifS Work Abroad Program, the only one of Its kind ... cuts through the red tape! 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dellt>orn St., 2nd Aoor Chicago,ll60610 
311·951·0585 
Call For A Free 1991 Student Travel or Work Abroad Catalog! 
"I'm a big girl now!" 
Happy 20th KJ! 

-'~ 
from People Who Love You, 
Anyway! 
second period this time, giving up five goals on just 15 shots. The last two goals came on consecutive power plays in the second period as the Rangers scored twice in 42 seconds on goals by Gartner and Doug Weight. 
That gave the Rangers what seemed to be an insurmount­able 5-0 lead. But the Devils came back to make it a game by scoring five of the next six goals before Adam Graves scored twice in the last seven minutes to clinch it for New York. which won despite being outshot 48­30. 
"They didn't give up and they made it tough on us late in the game," Graves said. "They can create a lot of offense. I don't think we panicked. We just tried to get back to our game and we did." 
Gartner made it 1-0 when he scored from the lower right circle at 10:41, capping a 2-on­1 rush with Kris King, then scored his first power-play goal from the right circle at 18:14 after taking a pass off the right boards from Sergei Nemchinov. 

Joe Kocur made it 3-0 with an off-balance shot from the slot after a sensational solo effort at 
2:57 of the second period. 
The Rangers then scored 14 seconds into a two-man advan­tage when Gartner connected from the side of the net for his third goal of the night and fifth of the playoffs. It was Gartner's second career playoff hat trick. 
Kevin Todd scored from in front at 12:03, the first shot in 66 the Devils had gotten past Mike Richter. Alexei Kasatonov made it 5-2 with a shot from the right point at 14:59. 
In the third period, the Devils got a power-play goal at 2:46 from Scott Stevens and another goal from Valeri Zelepukin at 
3:38 to cut the Rangers' lead to 5-4. 
The Rangers countered with a goal by King at 7:30, but the Devils came back to make it a one-goal game again 27 sec­onds later when rookie Bill Guerin, left alone in front, beat Richter from 10 feet. 
However, Graves put the game away by converting 2-on­1 feeds from Mark Messier. 
Happy 21st Birthday Spike 




THE NOTRE DAME 
~ 
VARSITY SHOP
..., 

VARSITY SHOP 
introduces its 
END OF THE YEAR SALE in the BOXING ROOM 

IO ·30% OFF SELECTED MERCHANDISE!! 
May 1-3 
and 
May 11-13 11:00 am-3:00pm 
(Enter JACC through Gate 3) 
April 28, 1992 



Draft 
continued from page 16 
Fred Marion and Tim Gordon will challenge Smith at the safety position. While incumbent Maurice Hurst appears set at one corner slot, the other is unstable with Ronnie Lippett and David Pool struggling last year. DB Dion Lambert from UCLA was a fourth round selection and should also challenge Smith for playing time. 
After Rod Smith and Brown, the chances getting thinner for the Irish players to make a significant impact. The Indianapolis Colts thought highly enough of Culver to select him with the first pick in the fourth round. Culver is not thought of as a back who could anchor a running attack, but his versatility enhanced his draft status. He played both halfback and fullback while with the Irish. 
"We feel Rodney can be an all-purpose type of back," said Colts coach Ted Marchibroda. "He's got good quickness and can catch passes." 
Although the Colt backfield appears empty after the trade of Eric Dickerson, halfback Albert Bentley remains as a solid performer when healthy, and either 1990 Notre Dame 

The Observer/ John Rock The number 14 pick in the draft, Derek Brown, feels that the New York Giants are the right team because New York is a 'high-profile' place. 
-BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ­





,.----.,1
I BUY at INVOICE* 
I I ND & SMC College Graduates 
I 1 1 Students and Faculty $500 Rebate... 1 

I ti!i5iit ~ 
I 
1 ~-''F~ I
·~. '"""''" 
I 
~ ~ Hyun~~.­
I 
-
•Rebate to dealer; Plus tax, doc.. title and tags...Ford vehicles ~~ly. I 
---BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ---­

TELEMA TE WANTED 
Bright, energetic, highly-motivated individuals needed NOW for telemarketing positions. 
·flexible hours! 
• 
no sales! 

• 
salary + commission! 


In 

South Bend 
Call 
219-273-1866 

I any new FORD or HYUNDAI ,,....... I ltor Details contact: BAS N E Y F 0 R D I 
;v1ARK HouseR ~, H=R·I r2~~~~R~~~~6~~~~ 
Sales Representative SOUTH BEND,IN46614 
The Observer 
graduate Anthony Johnson and Tim Manoa appears ready to take hold of the fullback position. 
Brooks saw himself fall all the way into the fourth round, where Philadelphia finally took him. The Eagles have only one truly productive back in Earnest Byner, and it is clear they are surging for a more dynamic back. Alabama star Siran Stacy went ahead of Brooks, in the third round, and should be his chief competition for carries this season. Current halfback James Joseph showed signs of brilliance, but averaged only 3.3 yards a carry in 1991. 
Despite the opportunity to play Brooks was clearly disappointed in being chose so late in the draft. 
"I did everything right. There were so many guys drafted ahead of me who I was better than," commented a dejected Brooks. "This was the most frustrating day of my life." 
McGuire will undoubtedly be placed in a backup role in New Orleans. Veteran Joel Hilgenberg remains a solid performer, and the Saints will likely groom McGuire into his successor. 
Tony Smith is joining a Chief team which is attempting to bring youth to an aging receiving corp. Last year's third round pick Tim Barnett showed he is Kansas City's big play receiver of the future, but a spot remains for a possesion type receiver who could work opposite Barnett. 
Williams and Jurkovic, despite their solid collegiate careers , weren't thought of as blue-chippers by NFL teams. 
Jurkovic had the size but 

Golf 
continued from page 16 
since it is our last. We would also like to land the team some strong recognition in the form of a NCAA tournament bid," said Chris Dayton. 
Also recognized by the Notre Dame club of Saint Joe Valley for their achievements as 
page 13 

The Observer/ R. Garr Schwartz Tony Brooks, a fourth round pick of the New Orleans Saints, feels he deserved to be picked in a higher round of the 1992 draft. 
failed to show impressive numbers at the scouting combines, running only a 5.44 forty-yard dash and doing only 19 repetitions at 225 lbs. Despite his poor numbers, the Bears felt it was worth spending a tenth round choice on him. If he makes the squad he will probably spend some time in the weight room, and could see some action behind Mark Bortz and Tom Thayer later in the season. 
Williams played a significant role in the 1988 championship team, and in 1990 he had ten tackles for a loss, second to only Chris Zorich. He was expected to anchor the line in 1990, but missed the season for personal reasons. Despite the year off 
Student-Athletes were seniors Mike Crisanti, for the men's team, and Allison Wojnas of the women's team. 
The Most Valuable Player for the women's team was Allison Wojnas. 
Junior Kathy Phares will lead the women's team upon being named captain for the upcoming season. 
''I'm very excited about the opportunities that await our 
· r : 1 \iii"' rnu•TAn• §D -4f#' r •••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Fulbright Competition 1993-94 
Current Juniors interested in pursuing Graduate Study Abroad after graduation are invited to an infonnational meeting with advisor, John Welle on Wednesday, April 29, 1992 at 7:30 P.M. in room 204 O'Shaughnessy 

from football, William's physical attributes tempted the Brown enough to use a sixth round pick on the six-foot one, 303 lb lineman. 
Draft analyst Mel Kiper considers William's a solid selection, and believes his future in the pros is up to him. 
"If he wants an NFL career bad enough, the performance level I saw with the Irish indicates he has a good shot at earning a job," stated Kiper. "He's an effective, pure NT." 
Some of the Notre Dame seniors fell into the later portion of the draft due to the abundance of quality talent in this year's selection process. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this article. 
team. We have great potential and, with only one outgoing senior, I hope I can help maintain the cohesion of the team and lead them through another strong season," said Kathy Phares. 
Both coaches Thomas and 
Hanlon expressed strong 
approval for the past and 
upcoming seasons. 
"We are playing the best teams in the country. As a result, we are becoming stronger competitively and in our tourneys. It is only a matter of time before we will evenly compete, until then, I have great expectations for the upcoming season," said Thomas. 
"I have to agree. We are increasingly playing stronger teams and becoming a better team as a result. I'm really proud of the team and their accomplishments and I look forward to the upcoming season," said Hanlon. 
-
London  $515*  
Frankfun  $655*  
Rome  $715*  
Tel Aviv  $765*  
Copenhagen  $655*  

*Fares are roundtrip for depcrtlres up to Jll1e 15on scheduled carriers.lntem<iional Teacher 
IDs, Hostel cards, overseas language courses 
for teachers. 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearborn St., ~d floor Chicago, 1160610 
311-951-0585 
Call For A Free 1991 Student Travel catalog! 

page 14 The Observer April 28, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS


Softball to face Indiana State 
Observer Staff Report 
This week marks the end of the regular season for the Notre Dame softball team. 
After winning three of four games over the weekend, the Irish (27-23) close the 1992 campaign with doubleheaders against Indiana State. DePaul and Dayton on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, respec­tively. 
Today at 3 p.m. the Irish face Indiana State for the third and fourth time this season. 
Both previous meetings came in March at the Sycamore Invitational, with Indiana State winning the first game 5-0 and 
the Irish taking the second game 2-1. 
In the first game, the Irish could manage only one hit, while Missy Linn's five-hit pitching led Notre Dame to the win in game two. 
Amy Vaira, boasting a .410 batting average, is the Sycamores' offensive leader. Debbie Styx is close behind at .391 and she is third in the na­tion in triples. Styx is also a force on the mound, carrying an 8-2 record with a 1.00 ERA into today's matchup. 
On Thursday, Notre Dame will be in Chicago to face DePaul and the regular season will come to a close on Friday when Dayton visits at 3 p.m. The MCC tournament begins on May 12 in Indianapolis. 
The Notre Dame softball team has earned academic honors for the second consecutive season. 
Six Irish players earned a spot on the MCC Academic Honor Roll. Ronny Alvarez, Amy Folsom, Casey McMurray, Lisa Miller, Sheri Quinn and Amy Reuter earned the honor with a GPA of at least 3.25. For the second straight year, Folsom was nominated for a spot on the GTE academic all­America team. 
Women's track battles elements at Ball St. 
•sports Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. •Irish Guard informational meeting for anyone interested in trying out next year will be on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in LaFortune's TV lounge. Questions? Call 283-2449. •The "Dump your Plump" team from the Security Office, "Safety Slugs," will lead the noon-time walk today. Meet them at 12:10 in front of Washington Hall for an escorted 30 minute walk around campus. •3-on-3 Tourney scheduled for Saturday, May 16. The second annual "Winamac Shoot Out" three on three triple elimination tournament is now accepting entries. Special events include free throw. slam dunk. and three point field goal shooting contests. The entry fee of $70 per four member team which will be donated to charity is due no later than Wednesday, May 13. Questions? Call Randy Miller at 233-6195.  
Correction: Due to an editor's error, the Bookstore article on The Gauchos mistakenly stated that Rob Vazquez ended the final with a lay-up when he really hit a free throw. Also, it was David Bose, not Pete DiGiovanni that missed the dunk against Just Chillin'. The Observer regrets the error.  

By JOSEF EVANS
• Sports Writer 
It was another wet weekend for the Notre Dame women's track team, as this time they battled rain and cold in Muncie, Indiana at the Ball State Invitational. However. the Irish women must be gaining a tol­erance for inclement weather, for they turned in some of their 
strongest performances of the year. 
"The weather didn't help us very much, but we really showed our toughness and hung in for some good fin­ishes." admitted assistant coach Tim Connelly. 
Youth was served for the women in the 3000 meters. where the team gave its most impressive performance. Four of the top five places were held by freshmen, with Stefanie Jensen capturing the top spot. Classmates Eva Flood, Kristi Kramer. and Sarah Riley raced to the third, fourth and fifth spots respectively. 
The 1500 meter race was also a showcase for the freshmen, with Emily Husted coming in second at a time of 4: 44. 31. and Kala Boulware placing fourth (4: 47. 63). Senior cap­tain Diana Bradley also ran well in the race, coming in fifth at 4: 48. 04. 
This meet was notable for the team in that they fielded their first heptathlete, freshman Susan Maher. The heptathlon consists of seven events. in which the athletes earn points for their finishes in each event that are totalled to determine the winner. Maher rose to the occasion with a fourth place finish, as she compiled 3, 712 points, and captured the shot put portion of the competition with a throw of 37-1 1/4. 
Also throwing shot for the Irish, but not in the heptathlon, was junior Karen Harris. She came in seventh in that event, but did not fare as well in the discus, where her best throw (1 09-4) was only good enough to take 14th. 
Sprinter Kristin Stovall, meanwhile, fell short of setting the personal record she had hoped for in the 400 meters, 
w~.. w..wPO u ...... '7._., , .... The .... PO 4141. 7l11. ....U
......._....~~ .... 
NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
t.AM-xoPM 
-INSIDE· OUTSIDE STORAGE 
10% Student Discount 

SELF LOCK STORAGE 
OF 1ZTH STREET 
24 HOUR SECURITY 
• FENCED • LOCKED • UGHTED 
AU. STORAGE CONTENTS ARE CONFIDENTIAL 
BUSINESS. COMMERCIAL 8 PERSONAL NEEDS 

2S9·8221 
WEEK 17S:J E 1ZTH MONTH MISHAWAKA 
coming in sixth with a time of 1: 
02. 79. She also placed seventh in the 200 meters. 
The women will return to Muncie this coming weekend for a five-team meet, and if Saturday's strong showing in bad weather is any indication, maybe a little rain isn't so bad after all. 



UlALUMNI i-m.'»"»~~>~<-."'·'·'·· :: -~' 
Houses lor 





!Cilfli
Rent 92-93 
Juniors, Seniors, 8 Faculty

a s-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished 

LAST LUNCH 
curity Systems 

OF THE YEAR 
Washers/Dryers 
At the Senior-Alumni Club
287·4989 
END THE YEAR WITH A BANG! 
Save $250.00 with 

12·2 Friday, May I
this AD* *new renters only 
(must be at least 2I years ol age) 

• • • Appear 
In• our 
RESUME BOOKS 
Deadline Friday, May 1 
Placement Services 

Today ­
Tuesday, April 28, 1992 
SPELUNKER 
I REAUY WANT TO
T'V£ \-1 AD A GtRf:AT 
MAK£ -0\JT BUT I.
IM£ Tl:lNIInHT, GLADYS. 
KNow niAf!SWROI((p
How£VER, I MUST 
0 N THE FIRSf 001£
BE HONEST MY INfENTIONS AREN'T 
ENTIRELY NoBLE 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
SPIN 
BILL WATTERS0~1 
1>\\JC~ FOR THAT ?Ol\C( . 
\ 
~d~ 
~Z 
JOHN MONKS 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-24 
ACROSS 
1 Turkic tribesman 
6 ----states 11 On one's back 12 South American 
plains 14 Of the intestine 

edward 5CI550RHAND5. 
FROM THE DIRECTOR OF "BATMAN" & "BEETLEJUICE" 1ma1 
~.... 
~ C 19'90TWENT1ETHt:ENl\Jll' FOK 

t;bn~soag. Ap~f1 30~12 
~~f§iNEf PICTURES Friday, May 1st May 2nd
BeaUty 
8:00 pm and 10:30 pm Cushing Auditorium Admission is $2.00 
Beasr 
50 Painter Salvador 13 Nighttime party 
14 Preclude 51 Chemical suffix 16 Athletic contests 52 Ejectors 19 ----through the 54 ----school nose 55 Riot substance 22 Former Italian 
(2 wds.) colony 57 Inheritance seizers 24 Punctured 
-, 
REFRIGERATOR RETURN THURSDAY, APRIL 30th STEPAN BASKETBALL COURT 11:00 AM -2:30 PM ' LYONS COURT 3:00PM-6:00PM 

STUDENT UNION BOARL> 
1__~----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-=====~--=-:..:::=-===_j 

-Sports 
page 16 April 28, 1992 
.. 
' 
MARK ~ 
McGRATH 
~~'
Reflections on ... 
Bookstore Basketball 
It's one of the biggest events on this 
eampus and possibly the most exciting. 
Ask Dave Bose, the MVP of the tourney as 
chosen by the commissioners about 
Bookstore and he will tell you it is one of 
the things that kept him at Notre Dame. 
However. after watching this year's 
tourney and writing articles for The 
Observer, I have found that Bookstore has 
many problems. 
First. I think the All-Bookstore teams 
and the players receiving accolades 
should have been different. I found the 
All-Bookstore teams did not include many 
people whom deserved the recognition. I 
made my selections based on overall play 
and the intangibles each player added to 
their team. I chose people who may have 
not had a great game every day, but they 
are enough of a presence on the court to 
be All-Bookstore. Therefore, I would like 
to select my three All-Bookstore teams 
featuring players from the Sweet 16 
onward. 
The third team would consist of: P.J. Stettin (Salubrious & Callipigious), Bob Cataldo (McCormick's). Marlin Crook (Ebony Side Of The Dome), LaRon Moore (Ebony Side Of The Dome) and Mike Toner (The Gauchos). 
All five of these players had excellent tournaments. Stettin played on the surprise team of the tourney and turned in many fine games. Cataldo played a consistent tournament. Toner was a crowd favorite and the Mr. Bookstore award showed he best exemplified the tournament. Crook was the leader on the boards for Ebony while Moore shot the lights out. 
My second team is made up of: Ray Griggs (Just Chillin'), Kevin Rule (Just Chillin'), Demetrius DuBose (Frank Drebbin and the 'Cocks), Andy Curoe (Malicious Prosecution) and Ed Larkin (Bridget's) 
Griggs played well throughout the tourney even with spring football taking place. He provided many intangibles for his team while Rule distinguished himself as both an inside and outside player. DuBose almost carried his team through the tourney including the 21-17 loss to Tequila. He shot 8-11 from the floor, added a free throw and grabbed nine boards. Larkin helped lead Bridget's with his shooting but I think another Bridget's player deserves first team. 
That team would be comprised of: Rob Vazquez (The Gauchos), Dave Bose (The Gauchos), Eric Jones (Tequila White Lightning XI). Dave Clar (Just Chillin') and John Carretta (Bridget's). 
Vazquez and Bose both had excellent tournaments as evidenced by their team being crowned champions. Jones is one of the best big men on campus. Despite having a tough final game, he was the leader for Tequila. Look no further than his 10-15 performance from the noor against Bridget's plus his rebounding. Clar was the big shooter for Just Chillin' induding nine points against McCormick's. Carretta was who I thought led Bridget's. In their game against Malicious, he shot 6-8 from the floor and 2-4 from the charity stripe not to mention his rebounds. In the Final Four, he had 
see HOOP/page 11 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Softball faces Indiana State 
see page 14 
•women's track fights weather 
see page 14 
•Men's track at Drake 
see page 12 
•NY Rangers back on track 
see page 12 
Irish have eight players selected 

By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
Three more Irish players were taken in the second day of the NFL draft, raising the total of Notre Dame players to eight. 
WR Tony Smith, DL George Williams, and OL Mirko Jurkovic joined first day selections TE Derek Brown, DB Rod Smith, C Gene McGuire and running backs Tony Brooks and Rodney Culver as Irish seniors selected. 
Smith went to the Kansas City Chiefs and Williams to the Cleveland Browns in the sixth round, while Jurkovic went to the Chicago Bears in the tenth round. 
The odds on all eight players making an opening day roster appear high considering the teams they are joining. The number of those players who will make an impact in their inaugural season is much slimmer. 
Brown and Rod Smith appear to be virtual locks when it comes to playing time next season. Brown was selected by the New York Giants with the 14th selection in the first round, and was penciled in as the . '...., starter the minute NFL ..-:'! 
commissioner Paul Tagliabue read the choice. Howard Cross, primarily a blocking tight end, is the only tight end on the roster, and managed to catch only 20 passes last year, a considerable drop off from the 33 caught by former The Observer/ Andrew McCloskey Irish star and G.iant tight 
Rod Smith, shown intercepting Andy Kelly of Tennessee in 1990, was end Mark Bavaro m 1990. , 
drafted by the Patriots and is expected to challenge for the starting job. Coach Ray Hanley s 
offensive system centers 
around a short passing 
attack, with the tight end 
playing an integral role. 
Bavaro flourished in the 
system and Brown appears 
likely to also. Washington TE 
Aaron Pierce, an imposing 
physical specimen and gifted 
athlete, was the Giant's third 
round. The drafting of two 
receiving ends, shows 
Handley's commitment to 
return to the short passing 
offense, an ideal offense for 
a player with Brown's 
capabilities. 
"I believe I can do a little 
of everything," said Brown. 
"I can block and I can run, 
and I'm a team player." 
Rod Smith will be joining a New England Patriot organization screaming for talent in the defensive backfield. It is unsure whether Smith will be asked to play cornerback or safety at the pro level, but he believes he has the capabilities to handle both slots. 
"I played both CB and safety in college, so I don't think there will be any difficulty making the transition to either spots," said Smith, who's versatility tempted the Patriots enough to make them trade a fourth round selection to move up in the second round to select him. 
"Foxboro is a beautiful area, and it is a lot like Minnesota, where I am from," added Smith. "I am also only a hope, skip and a jump away from New York and Boston. 
see DRAFT/page 13 
Saint Mary's track and field sets bests in last meet 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's track team ran the last leg of their season at the Elmhurst Invitational this past weekend where they posted many personal and season bests. 
But for seniors Sandi Macklin and Sharon Fisher, the meet did not reflect their last season. 
Macklin's track meet was cut short when she pulled a hamstring in the 4 x 100 relay. Macklin, running third leg, passed a bad exchange to fellow senior Lynn Pfeffer when the injury occurred. 
"I never thought a pulled muscle could feel that way," stated Macklin. 
"The relay team was a different com­bination which worked well in practice", said Coach Larry Szczechowski. " She pulled her leg at the exchange which slowed them down -it was too bad." 
Macklin tried to participate in the long jump but she could not get down the runway. Although disappointed, Macklin was pleased with her season performance. 
"I never expected to do as well as I had done", said Macklin. 
Senior Sharon Fisher, due to a misunderstanding, was not able to make her last meet. 
For senior Lynn Pfeffer, her track season is not over yet. Pfeffer is trying to qualify for the nationals. To do this, she must participate in other meets in the next two weeks. 
"If I am to qualify in the provisional nationals, l need about 10-11 more inches", said Pfeffer. ''I'm hoping but I am happy with this season's end". 
According to Szczechowski, Pfeffer had a good week in practice but it did not work out for her. "She was trying too hard, " he said. 
Pfeffer jumped 32'11 in the triple jump and landed 15'6 in the long jump. She threw 110'11" and placed third in the last event of her track career. 
"The javelin was my last event ", said 
see TRACK/page 12 
Irish golf teams finish spring season 
our ability to out perform teams that had defeated us earlier in the year," commented junior Kathy Phares. 
The men's golf team competed in the Kepler Intercollegiate at Scarlet Golf Course this past weekend. 
Leading the men's team with a combined three round score of 237 and a twenty­seventh place finish overall was junior Joe Dennen. 
Overall, the team finished seventeenth in field filled with some of the countries top teams. Unfortunately for the Irish, the weather seemed to have affected their team performance all spring. 
"There was hardly a weekend that went by that the cold, rainy weather did not hinder our performance. We are a good team. We have gotten much stronger in competition, but the weather never really gave us a complete opportunity to show it," said Head Coach George Thomas. 
For both teams, Monday night brought forth signs of the upcoming season and recollections of the past as the teams gathered for their annual banquet. 
For the men's team, juniors Chris Dayton and Joe Dennen were named co­captains for the upcoming season. 
Junior Chris Dayton was also named Most Valuable Player for the Irish based on his performance in this past season. 
"I am very pleased. I know that Joe and I are both looking forward to next year 
see GOLF/page 13 
By MIKE HOBBES 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend the men's and women's Golf Teams traveled to Columbus, Ohio for tournaments hosted by Ohio State University. Similar to prior tournaments, this was the fourth straight weekend that the teams were subject to inclement weather conditions. 
"Once again, the weather was not in our favor, we had to face a very cold. windy and rain-plagued course," said Coach Tom Hanlon. 
Despite the adversity, the women's Golf team finished a strong sixth place at the First Annual Lady Buckeye Spring Invitational. 
Leading the team with a combined three round total of 232 and an impressive 

Chris Dayton 
fifth place finish overall in the tournament was sophomore Crissy Klein. 
"I am very proud of our of what we have accomplished this past weekend. We played very well considering the course conditions," said Hanlon. 
"Our sixth place finish was very encouraging. This tournament demonstrated 





