



1842•1992 
SISQUOC! NIINNIAL 
eObserver 
0 
tii Coli
SamtMarys ege 
NOTRE DAME•INOIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 136 FRIDAY , APRIL 24, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING N~TRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Alumni clubs participate in Humanitarian Week events 
Campus groups hold small anti-~Bush rally 
By PETER LOFTUS 
News Writer 
Almost three weeks before President Bush is scheduled to speak at Notre Dame's cdm­mcncement. a strong anti-B~sh message was aired Thursday in a small rally at the Fieldhouse Mall sponsored by the Notre Dame Democratic Socialists of Amcriea (DSA). 
Nine speakers representing various campus groups ~d­dressed the crowd of about 70 people gathered around the War Memorial at lunchtime yesterday. Participants in the rally sat along the ledge of ~he Memorial, holding signs t~at read, "Jesus was a Sociallst" and "Healthcare for People, Not Profits." 
Rally speakers had harsh words for Bush as well as the NO administration on issues such as homosexuality and 

By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
Many of the University of Notre Dame's domestic alumni dnl:!s nrc celebrating fhe 
Sest{U!Centennlal year by pa tic­ipating in Humanitarian W ek which runs through tomorro . 
Of the 192 domestic clubs, 125 are participating in the project that features thousands of graduates taking part in ra­tionwide community ser~·ce programs, according to P ter Pranica, director of the Alu ni Association Community Sertice Program. 
"Alumni are participating in everything from a walk ~for hunger in Boston to 'Ado~t a Highway' in Denver," said Pranica. Some of the clubs :are assisting food banks, homeless shelters and even voter regis­tration, he added. 
Humanitarian Week has 
I 

Four ND students to participate 

in summ~r 
By HEATHER TREMBLAY j 
News Writer 
Four Notre Dame undier­graduates will be travelinJ to 
Russia this summer to par ici­pate in a new internship ro­gram which focuses on business practices in Eastern Europe. 
"Our primary purpose it.to train a new type of b si­nessperson who is able to n­derstand and operate in ~he Eastern European market," said Igor Grazin, project coor­dinator. 
Grazin is also the directo~ of the program of Easthn European and Russian e:co­nomic and legal studies spon­sored by Notre Dame's KellOgg Institute for Internat~'o'nal Studies. 
The aim of the program, ac­cording to Grazin, is to co ine theoretical studies With treatment of minorities. 
The rally was staged amid rumors that Democratic presi­dential candidate Edmund "Jerry" Brown, former gover­nor of California, would show up and address the crowd. Pro­Brown pamphlets were dis­tributed to onlookers. 
DSA member Jim Grogan, a senior from Stanford Hall, said that Brown will speak at NO sometime during the later part of next week, either Wednesday or Friday. 
In front of a banner reading "Overthrow the Status Quo-Revolution by Ballot Box," the speakers criticized Bush on certain issues as well as the University's decision to invite him to graduation. 
NO senior Martha Poorman announced she was circulating a petition protesting the choice 
see RALLY I page 6 


been worthwhile for the alumni clubs especially in bringing to­gether the young alumni who want to do more for NO that attend a football game, s9-id. Pranica. 
"It has brought new blood into our clubs," he said. People of all ages are interested in community service and so Humanitarian Week has worked very well, he said. 
Former alumni association president, Ray Kelly (NO '61) helped to spike the idea behind alumni association community service activity in 1990. because there was no alumni volunteer­ing previously. Pranica and Lewis Hall rector Kate Sullivan then put Humanitarian Week together in the summer of 1990. 
According to Pranica, 117 alumni clubs had been involved in community service projects prior to the Humanitarian Week 


Russian internship 
practical work in Eastern Europe, a tirst-of-its-kind effort. The effort will result in "Notre Dame students who have both knowledge of and experience in business marketing and Eastern Europe as well," said Grazin. 
The students will be leaving on June 23 to begin the six week program. Two students will be working in Moscow and two other students will work in Tallinn, Estonia. 
Sophomore Ed Padinske will be working in Moscow for The Commersant, which he de­scribes as the Russian equiva­lent to The Wall Street Journal. 
Although Padinske said he is unsure as to the extent of his duties, his job will include such things as working on the editing of the English edition of the paper and writing a column to provide American perspectives on certain business issues. 
The goal of his work, accord­ing to Padinske, is to aid American business investors doing work in Eastern Europe, particularly Russia. 
Padinske will be paid for his work, but the money will be in the form of rubles. "The money is not really important, any­way," said Padinske. "The ex­perience is the most important thing." 
The remaining students will be working for a business paper in Tallinn, Estonia, a Moscow division of Honeywell, Inc., artd the Estonian Department of Foreign Trade. 
The program is aiming to ac­commodate as many as ten students each summer in the future, according to Grazin. 
The program is sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. 
activities. Most of these clubs continued with their previous community service projects for the Humanitarian Week and many became involved in addition'al 'volunteering projects. 
All of the activHies are "involved in the local commu­nity (of the clubs) in a positive fashion," said Pranica. 
Many of the alumni clubs are working with the same charity that their student from the summer service project worked with, he said. 
He said 140 ND students par­ticipate in summer service pro­jects each summer that are co­ordinated by the Center for Social Concerns and local alumni clubs. They live in 90 ci­ties across the nation and work with various local community service organizations. The stu­dents live with alumni during their summer service work. 
The alumni club of St. Joseph Valley has been work­ing with the Logan Center as their .. community service projecf according to Michael Danch. Danch is the vice president for community affairs for St. Joseph Valley alumni club and is chairing the club's Humanitarian Week activities, along with Bernie Lavins. 
The club painted the gym of the Logan center in early February and plans an exfen­sive outside clean up project tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m., which will include plant­ing trees and bushes, raking the grounds, seeding the lawn, and repairing the parking lot and building of the center, said Danch. 
Danch said that his club's ac­tivity is like "a Logan Center's Christmas in April program." 
Students facing charges 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
The two Notre Dame students arrested April 12 during a party at their Cleveland Road house have been charged with furnishing alcohol to minors, according to the county prosecutor's office. 
Seniors Kurt Gerdenich and Bradley Grabs will have to perform community service and pay a tine for the class C misdemeanor. , 
Marvin "Rusty" Setzer. a former Notre Dame football player, faces a charge of theft, a class D 
edly 
e a 
.pageS 


The ND club of the St. Joseph Valley also 'sponsors the Blue and Gold game and the first fifty people to volunteer at the Logan Center tomorrow will get tickets to the game. 
The Washington D.C. alumni club has already worked on renovating houses in a low in­come city complex as part of their Humanitarian week activi­ties, said Jerry Scanlan, chair­man of the D.C. alumni club's Humanitarian Week activities. 
The D.C. club has also taken children from the complex to a park and prepared food and de­livered it to scfme of the city's homeless. 
"We have been involved with a number of different activities that appeal to different people with different interests at vari­ous times during the day, de­pending on what is good for volunteers," said Scanlan. 
Four killed, 23 injured in park crash 
NEW YORK (AP) -A mo­torist lost control of her car and careened through a crowded Greenwich Village park Thursday, killing four people and injuring 23, authorities said. 
The car crashed down a walkway, sending people flying and crushing benches, wrought-iron fences and a con­crete drinking fountain. 
"The car went past at high speed, 25 feet from me. People were flipping in the air, one after the other. Some were hit so hard it just took them out of their shoes," said Bill Meade, 30, a graduate student at New York University, whose build­ings surround the park. 
The driver was traveling to­ward Washington Square Park on a street that ends there. In-
see PARK! page 5 





page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

An Tostal is not the only spring festival 
I must say that I have been impressed so far with this year's An Tostal. While it is not Florida's Gator Growl or Indiana's Little 500, the festival is still a way for students to relieve some of the 

tensions that they build up  PAUL PEARSON  
all semester.  Associate News  
Fortunately, this year  Editor  
there  are  no  camels  

relieving themselves on North Quad this year. Good job. guys. 
Now, some of the people who are visiting for the Blue and Gold Game may be looking at An Tostal and saying, "This is quite an impressive way for students to celebrate the arrival of spring." 
What these visitors don't know (or, in the case of alumni, might have forgotten) is that there's another spring festival that occurs on campus at around the same time as An Tostal. 
While this festival has no name, it has some very distinct events that, ironically enough, parallel An Tostal's offerings. 
For example, this afternoon, An Tostal has the Matress Drag, in which four people attempt to carry another person around on an old matress. The other festival has the Furniture Move, in which administrators get students to get most of their belongings (lofts, furniture, carpets, etc.) out of their rooms before finals. Perfect timing, huh? 
Yesterday, An Tostal had Jello wrestling between different students. The other festival this year features Conscience Wrestling, in which people in charge try to ignore the bottom line and do what will benefit the students. 
Unfortunately, certain members of the Athletic Department decided to skip this event (didn't have the time, I guess). 
An Tostal features the Treasure Hunt, which has students searching all over the campus for Knute Rockne's secret treasure. 
The other festival features the clima,x of the Engagement Ring Hunt, which has students looking for that special someone to spend forever with-(This one takes a lot of preparation, but the rewards are incredible, I'm told.) 
Fieldhouse Mall hosted An Tostal's AirOb­stacle Course, which forced students to go over, under, around and through just about everything in order to get through a course in the shortest possible time. 
The other festival has the Impossible Ob­stacle Course, which forces students to go over, under, around and through everything in order to get a schedule of actual courses. 
This event is brought to you by DART (Denied Access to Researching Teachers). 
Finally, tonight we have An Tostal's Recess, which features the world's second-biggest game of Simon Says (as in "Simon says 'hop up and down,'" "Simon says 'lift one leg.'" and so forth). 
The other spring festival, unfortunately, has the game of University Administration, with the world's biggest Simon Says game: 
"Simon says, 'Move out so we can put girls in.'" "Simon says, 'Withdraw your no-confidence vote.'" "Simon says, 'Don't question me. Just go enjoy your An Tostal. '" 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Production News 
Peggy Crooks Frank Rivera 
Bryan Nowicki Bevin Kovalik 
Sports Systems 
Jim Vogl Harry Zemballis 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Barbados criticizes travel advisory 
•BRIDGETOWN, Barbados -A U.S. travel advisory warning American visitors about crime on Barbados is "wholly unwarranted," according to the island's foreign minister. The comment Wednesday by Foreign Minister Maurice King was one of several by government officials and business leaders who reacted to the advisory, issued the same day by the State Department in Washington. The advisory urged American tourists to be alert after a recent increase in crime, particularly in the capital city of Bridgeport and at the beaches. 
NATIONAL 
Deadly peanuts lurk in ice cream 
•PORTLAND, Ore.-Kraft General Foods is recalling chocolate ice cream sold in Western states because it may contain a peanut product that could trigger a fatal allergic reaction. A peanut protein may have been inadvertently added to the ice cream, which should not be eaten by anyone allergic to peanuts, company spokeswoman Linda Eatherton said. "This is one of the most serious food allergies there is," said Dr. John O'Hallaren, of the Allergy Immunology Clinic in Portland. 
trombonist, at 2 p.m. tomorrow in the Annenberg 
Auditorium. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 23 
VOLUME IN SHARES 235,784,800  NYSE INDEX 226.16  ~ v  0.74  
411.60 {t DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3348.61 41­ 1.79 9.84  
PRECIOUS METALS  
$ 0.60 to $338.70/oz. 0.5¢ to $4.Q13/oz. 


1 1 1 

Symptoms include swelling in the mouth or throat, followed by hives; in some cases, the throat swells shut, and the person may go into shock and die. 
Students' nude run marks year's end 
•ANN ARBOR, Mich.-More than 200 University of Michigan students celebrated the last day of classes by jogging a mile Thursday. In the nude. Most of the students running in the seventh-annual nude mile shortly after midnight were campus athletes. One man made the course on crutches. "This is a good study break,"said law student, Karen Libertiny, who watched the naked jaunt. "I have a choice of looking at these men or corporate tax." Runners wore lacrosse helmets, swimming caps, cowboy hats, viking horns and ski masks. Members of the Michigan crew, who claim credit for starting the mile in 1986, carried their oars. 
Comedy club bans smoking-no joke 
•CHICAGO -A comedy club's decision to ban smoking may steam a few customers, but other club operators are watching closely to see if the format succeeds. The Improvisation nightclub began its new policy earlier this month after positive reaction to experimental smoke-free shows, said co-owner Walter Gertz. "I couldn't take another comic going on stage and making another 'Have we elected a pope?' joke about all the smoke," Gertz said. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
on April 24: e In 1800: Congress approved a bill establishing the Library of Congress In Washington, D.C., appropriating $5,000 "for the purchase of such books as may be necessarv." 
e In 1915: The Turkish Ottoman Empire began the mass deportation of Armenians during World War I. Hundreds of thousands of Armenians are believed to have died en route. e In 1961 : Following the Bay of Pigs fiasco, the White House issued a statement In which President Kennedy accepted "sole responsibility for the events of past days." e Ten Years Ago: President Carter presided over an official state ceremony In the U.S. Capitol to pay tribute to the 11 million people killed In the Nazi Holocaust. 
' 1 ~ .I I .,f 1 • I I I 

OF INTEREST 
•A 
real long ice cream sundae will be served today on South Quad from 3:30p.m. to 4:30 p.m. 

•The 
ISO picnic will be held today at 4:30 p.m. at Holy Cross Field. There will be free food and drinks, as well as soccer and volleyball. 

•Looking 
for an apartment or house mate after graduation? Get your name on the USA listing down in Career and Placement. 

•An 
Tostal picnic will be held tomorrow at Stepan Field from 11 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. North and South Dining Halls will be closed. 

•A 
piano recital will be presented by Brian Moll and his assistants Sarah Bradley Fink, soprano, and Cason Duke, 


'r f .t f 

•The 
Masters of Fine Arts exhibition will open Sunday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art. 

•An 
evening of performance will be held at Theodore's Sunday at 7 p.m. Sponsored by the English department, the third annual performance night will fea­ture music, poetry, films, dance and performance art. 

•career 
and Placement services will be set up in the Library Concourse to collect the Future Plans Surveys sent out to the seniors this Tuesday and Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 

•Juniors 
must submit a resume expert disk and one printed copy of the resume to the Career and Placement Services office before leaving campus in May. 


The Observer 

Friday, April 24, 1992 page 3 

Four stu~ents arrested in Ill. abortion protest 
By DAVID KINNEY The group's attorney will News Editor , then attempt to plea bargain for minimal fines and com·
i

Four Notre Dame stud!:lnts munity service. 
were among 73 arre~ted Although Scheidler said the April 17 as part of an a~or­rescue operation was tion protest at a clinic in peaceful, she related it to Champaign, Ill., according to taking a fort. Six students Elsa Scheidler. : entered the waiting area of The "rescue operati?n," the clinic, using Kryptonite sponsored by a group c~lled locks to chain their bodies Collegians Activated to !Lib· inside. These students were erate Life (CALL), began lat 8 the last to be arrested, since 
a.m. and continued until 3 the fire department had to p.m., shutting down the qllnic break the locks. for the day, accordin~ to More students, including Scheidler. ! those from Notre Dame. 
Approximately 120 coljlege blocked the two other doors students participated, re~e­to the clinic. Others picketed senting 15 colleges, inclu · g legally and prayed nearby, •. University of Michigan, ndi· while sidewalk counselors ana University at Bloo~ing· talked to potential patients, ton and University1 of offered alternatives to Wisonsin at Madison. 1 abortion, and explained how 
Schiedler, junior Bill K;een, the women could finance sophomore Claire Johl\son their pregnancy and support and freshman Eliza~eth their child, "so they could be Boyce were arrested a~und mothers;,~ said Scheidler. ···•· 
11:15 a.m on the mi de­Counselors convinced two ···· meanor charges of cri ,inal women not to have abortions. trespassing, mob actions: and Scheidler said the protest 
resisting arrest. ' was a success. "No babies 
As a show of group soUdar­were killed that day." ity. all participants refus~d to Keen explained that he par­reveal their identities ~ntil ticipated in the rescue for police agreed that I all both humanitarian and students would receive the religious reasons. 
same charges. Theyi re­"Abortion kills a child," he mained in jail until 9 p.mL said. "If I knew I was going 
Each of the students fuust to be put to death, I would return for arraignment hope somebody would be throughout the next ,two there to help me." weeks, according to K~en. 
I 

.~fN10RS ... S[N10RS· ... SEN10RS ... SEN10RS ... SENIORS ... ~ (/) 
,..,

:z:
·E: '(.(!jNt,'1(1 1t. t.irltl CIT\'' 
~ 
L.U ~ 
cr, 
CIIRCER f. rtAciEW NT <;[rt'JCfS (11/J lfflr '.'(l!l f JIJ[l OTHER N.r. (,RAPS Gt'JNC: 10 TilE SAllE 

~ 
CJ 1V. 

z: 
STOr BV AIJV S~GN ur lltX~' 


-~ ~ 0 ~ 
~ 
~ S(l(J IN3S . ..S(l(J IN3S . . 'S£10 IN3S' . 'S?WIN3S' ' •SltO IN3S. • ~ 
For





Hertz 
Do-lt-Yourself 
PEMSKE 
Moves Local 
o one way 

Truck Rental 
Group sponsors Project Passagon drive 
By KENYA JOHNSON both ways. 'I do not have any money to News Writer "Every year, during political give, but you can use my land to Pi Sigma Alpha, the Govern­elections, we(the people of Pas­build the school on.' After that ment Honor Society, is sponsor­sagon) would always be people gave their nails, their 
promised a school. And we be­wood, and anything else theying Project Passagon, a collec­lieved them. But it never thought would help," Kougnia­tion drive to aid Passagon, came," said Kougniazonde. zonde said. 
Benin in Africa. 

Due to this constant disap­"In a short time, we had aThe group plans to collect pointment, Kougniazonde de­three classroom school built.
pens, pencils, paper and spiral cided to take his own action. And we did it ourselves," he
notebooks to send to a p-oor 
"I began telling everyone that added.
school in Passagon, a small 
we can't wait for them to help This vision of one child be­town of approximately 5,000. 
us. We need to help ourselves," came a reality, Kougniazonde As Notre Dame students pack said Kougniazonde. said, and it has now expanded
to leave for the summer, Pi 
Kougniazonde said he spent to a nine classroom school. ButSigma Alpha is requesting that 
the year before the 12th grade the school is still at an impasse,any leftover school supplies be 
convincing people to "help he said. 
placed in a box located in all of 
themselves." "We had no problem building 
the Notre Dame campus' 
"I went from door to door. I it ourselves, but we cannot keep dorms. 
really impressed the people. it going only. They have no pa­
Passagon is one of many 
Me,still a child, sometimes per to write on, no pens to write towns in Africa that are feeling bad-pushing for something with," he explained. 
the effects of "economic woes," worth while." he said. Although Kougniazonde is at­
according to Notre Dame 
Kougniazonde said he felt this tending Notre Dame in order tograduate student Christophe 
was the biggest reason people receive his Ph.D. in Interna­Kougniazonde. 
responded to his cry of the tional Studies, he still feels
Kougniazonde, a native to 
necessity of a school. strong ties to his home town. 
Passagon, explained the pas­According to Kougniazonde, "I still need to do all I cansionate desire the members of 
the people of Passagon held a over there," he said. 
the town feel towards educa­
forum the same night he went Kougniazonde, along with Pition. "The opportunity for edu­
door to door and planned on Sigma Alpha, is encouraging
cation is cherished by the peo­
building the school. Since the students to save all their left­ple," he said. 
people did not have monetary over, unused school supplies,Kougniazonde told the story funds to build the school they particularly pens, pencils, andof how as a child he resented had to donate in a different paper. Boxes and posters willthe fact that he, and his peers, 
manner. be in each Notre Dame dorm by had to walk nine miles to re­
"One man stood up and said, May 1.
ceive an education ... nine miles 
Sightseeing plane wreckage found near the peak of dormant volcano 
HONOLULU (AP) -Searchers Carvalho, a battalion chief. Hawaii Island to Honolulu on_ found the wreckage of a The Beech 18 twin-engine Oahu, said Rob Jackson, the sightseeing plane Thursday that plane operated by Scenic Air tour company's director of op­crashed with nine people Tours Hawaii was carrying erations. aboard in a lava field near the eight passengers when radar The plane wasn't flying along summit of a dormant volcano. lost track of it Wednesday the company's planned course, 
A tour company official said afternoon . he said. the plane went down far off Thick clouds blanketed much "Our pilots have a canned course. of the island at the time, said route to follow and the location 

Associated Press. 
A helicopter chartered by the Roy Matsuda of the National where the wreckage is found is Maui Fire Department spotted Weather Service. not along that route," Jackson the wreckage about one mile When it crashed, the plane told the'Honolulu Star-Bulletin. east of the summit of was flying the last leg of a day None of the victims were Haleakala, a 10,000-foot dor­long, four-island excursion, a identified. Jackson failed to re­mant volcano, said Clayton 250-mile trip from Hilo on turn repeated calls from The 
National Transportation Safety Board investigators were to arrive Thursday, crash, said 
is now accepting application for the Bill Miller, operations unit 
supervisor for the Federal

following position: Aviation Administration office in Hawaii. FAA officials and police investigators were at the scene. 
Scenic Tours has been in

Circulation Manager 
business here since 1980. Three years ago, one of its planes

Circulation Drivers crashed on Hawaii Island, 
1killing a pilot and 10 passen­Must be available from lOam-lpm 
gers. 

Happy 

To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 
An Tostal! 


10 II. Vans  14 II. Vans  18 II. Vans  24 II. Vans  
1·2 Rooms  2·3 Rooms  4·5 Rooms  6·8 Hooms  
I  

Low Rates o Free Unlimited Mileage on One Way Rentals 
• Aor Condiloonmg and Aulom1oc Transmossoon • New. Clean. Top-Maonlaoned Models 
• 
Buoll·ln Loadmg Ramps • 24-Hour Emergency Road Servoce. 7 Days a Week 

• 
Full Lone ol Moving ccessoroes lncludong· Tow Oolhes. Hand Trucks. Pads and Carloh • Free Movmg Guode • Prolccllon Plans 


• Most MaJOr Cu'!t1Jt Cards Accepted 
South Bend 
277-0144 

Mishawaka 
234-9665 
"Ask for your 10% student discount" 
For One Way Reservations. Call 1-800-222-0277 
· Penske Truck Leasmg Co 1991 


------------~-------------­
TO TEST OUR ADVERTISING BRING THIS COUPON TO THE MCI BOOTH AND RECEIVE A 
FREE MCI
3-MINUTE PHONE CAU TO ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD! 


WHILE·U·WAIT 
!~!~~of!~,~~~~,~Sn>R. 
IBM $2

EYEGLASSES 
SHAREWARE /DISK

ASSORTED BED PILLOWS 
sg FIBERLUX Serlel500MANYTO 
CHOOSE FROM Sl1rtlng 11 /PR, 
Replacement WINDOWS 6 DI~~S FOR S1 Q
~~~~~ S49 
COMPLETE 

BRING YOIJR PRESCRIPTION OR YOUR CURRENT GLASSES 
--l*e·stone 
FIRESTONE TIRE & SERVICE CENTERS 




TiREs$19 
FROM P15580R13 
SPECIAL SUPER SALE PRICES ON ALL TIRES FIRESTONE 

UP TO 90 UNIT£D INCHES OVER2000 SOFTWARE
S1991NSTALLEO TITLES 
Shadow Boxes 
$24.95$10 

NOW WALL CABINET MAGAZINE RACKS $29.95 $1495 
NOW

$29.95 S14ss 
S;;~IAL SUPER SALE PRICES! 
~,, E·KCOlll!·:,
.-.-t--,· . .._ 
"BAKER'S SECRET~ 


3FoRSS 
AMERICA'$ !'AVORITE NON-$'\'lCK I!IAKEWAFIE 
'1DDs of Game Cartridges 
NEW & USED 
.~995 
NEW &USED GAMES BUY •SELL •TRADE 

AMAZING SELECTION OVER 5000 ITEMS 
FROM ALL 
o~~~E 50o/o-t;. ~­NATION'S 70% ,~r1j~~
BIGGEST 0 \ ~\~ DEALERS OFF 
..CD 

,.::r z 
·z 
c 
.,..J> ,c en 
m 
:rl 
en 
:&>
... 

m 
• 
• 
..CD 
::r 
J> 
z 
z 
c
,.
,.. 
en 
c 
-a 
1ft 
en 
" 
J> 
r­
m 
• 
.... 
0 
0 
0 
en 
0
., 
J> 
"' 
:D 
,.C) 
-
z 
en
.... 

------~---~--~ ---­
The Observer 

Friday, April 24, 1992 page 5 



Cahill lecture discusses mixture between women and sexuality 
By JEANNE DE VITA News Writer 
Battling young Catholic's "normless" experience of hu­man sexuality with a meaning­ful Christian message, thEtolo­gian Usa Sowle Cahill explained the three dimensions of Catholic Christian teachings ! on sexuality. 
A professor of Theology at Boston College and president­elect of the Catholic Theological Society of America, as well as the author of several book~ and articles, Cahill located her voice in the dialogue and discussions about human sexuality as a married Catholic theologian and mother. 
In her lecture yesterday, "Women and Sexuality," Cahill discussed the opinion of younger Catholics that qlder Catholics are "oblivious to real­ity" regarding contemporary sexual issues and attitudes, 
Young Catholics are not' con­fronting the dilemmas of con­traception, divorce and premar­ital sex, she said. Accordihg to Cahill, culture portrays sex as a form of sophisticated recre~tion in which moral constraints are limited to mutual consent. 
While young Catholics might consider some insights antl ar­guments presented by the Church and its older members as redundant and naive, Cahill explained that the Catholic op­timism concerning sex can be regarded as an inspiring $ense of the meaning of sex, mined in the Church's teaching. 
Cahill discussed the suspicion of human sexuality which was suggested by early theologians. Attention to sexuality was con­eentrated on the purely physical drive,she said, which was be­lieved to break moral restraint, often in manipulative and vio­lent ways. 
Because women were consid­ered inferior and early cultures placed so little emphasis on the value of the individual, sex was not considered "the intimate psychological and emotional commitment of the partners" until the middle of the twentieth century, according to Cahill. 
Vatican Council II and the documents Gaudiem et Spes and Humana Vitae helped to raise the presence of an ele­ment of love in the sexual act to the importance of the element of procreation, according to Cahill, which had for centuries been considered the only func­tion of the sexual act. 
Cahill defined the three di­mensional, unified purpose of sex as the fulfillment of a hu­man physical desire, the ex­pression of an intimacy and love on a deep personal level, and the opportunity for pro­creation. 
Cahill also discussed the lim­ited roles of these three dimen­sions. She said each dimension must be taken in conjunction with the other two and must be experienced within a relation­ship between reliable emotional confidants, in order to be a sexual experience which Catholics would support as a truly social and interpersonal expression of sex. 
The submission of wives to husbands suggested in the let­ter of St. Paul should simply be considered in its historical con­text, Cahill said. While Jesus supported an egalitarian disci­pleship, often the early Chris­tian writers were forced to ap­peal to their contemporaries in terms culturally acceptable, she said. Therefore, in the attempts of the early Chureh to be accepted, often disciples had to "sell-out" the inclusive lan­guage of Jesus, Cahill added. 
"Sex has some morally im­portant connection to parent­hood," Cahill said. 
Explaining that the human circumstance does not always allow the three values of sex to be realized at the same time, she also addressed various methods of artificial eontracep­tion and insemination, suggest­ing that methods such as sperm donation and surrogate moth­erhood were less than fully ac­countable to the three fold union of the sexual dimensions. Cahill said that these methods "are methods that JOin strangers in procreation," which do not support the moral unity of the sexual act. 
The potential of sex to be parental and the intimacy and union of sex are values not only for women to affirm in their own sexuality, according to Cahill. But are values which can help all people find mean­{ng in mutual fulfillment, inti­mate friendship, and in an at­tentive love manifested in pro­creation, Cahill said. 
"Women and Sexuality" was the eighth Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality. 
Ambassador Mroziewicz discusses 'new' Europe 

By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
Since the Berlin Wall has crumbled and the Cold War has ended, a "new world order" has emerged in which all European nations, including Poland, Hun­gary and Czechoslovakia, will soon work together for collec­tive security, according to Robert Mroziewicz, Polish am­bassador to the United Nations. 
In his lecture, "Triangle Foreign Policies: Polish, Hun­garian and Czechoslovakian Se­curity in a Post-Soviet World," Mroziewicz spoke of the role of the triangle states in a "new era of profound and irreversible democratic transformation in Central and Eastern Europe." 
"The triangle states have been a driving force in the pro­cess of dismantling the military alliances of the Warsaw Treaty," Mroziewicz said. The Warsaw Treaty, which divided the continent of Europe into two military blocks, was ended on June 1, 1991, in Prague, Czechoslovakia. 
Since the division of Europe was formally ended, Mrozewicz said he has seen the "newly­emerging democracies of Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland strive for close institu­tional association with Euro­pean communities." 
The triangle countries want to be included in Western Eu­ropean alliances that provide collective security, such as NATO. Czechoslovakia, Hun­gary, and Poland have a "common system of values with NATO countries," Mroziewicz said. "They will cooperate in mutual activities for integration as proof of the viability of the triangle countries as partners." 
The goals for the integration of the triangle countries include political, economic, and legal cooperation with other European countries. The most important goal, Mroziewic:z continued, will be the creation of collective security in Europe. 
The triangle countries in­tend to overcome existing divi­sions in Europe. According to Mroziewicz, their efforts at promoting international secu­rity have been aided by the end of the Cold War and improved U.S.-Soviet relations. 
"Europe was formerly the site of conflict between the United States and the former Soviet Union," he said. "Now, there is a transition from con­flict to cooperation." 
As ambassador for Poland, Mroziewicz has learned that Poland plays a key role in this transition. It influences rela­tions between the former Soviet Union and the whole of Central and Eastern Europe, he added, "due to its geopolitical role and its geostrategic location." 
One problem Mroziewicz noted, however, was that Poland is still occupied by over 40,000 Red Army troops. He sees the withdrawal of these troops as a prerequisite to any agreements between the two countries. 
Security in Poland and in the other triangle countries must be made collective in order to prevent the imperialism that makes such military occupation possible, Mroziewicz continued. 
"The new European order should be built in such a way that should exclude military dominance by any single coun­try or group of countries as well as rule out the capability to mount a surprise attack," he said. 
Hungary, Poland, and Czechoslovakia would fit into this new order of collective se­curity more easily if they were included in the European Com­munity," Mroziewicz added. 
He later admitted that the former Soviet Union must also be included in the overall scheme of collective security. "No matter what kind of Russia emerges, it is and will be a su­perpower," he explained. "It is much better to engage them than to erect a new iron cur­tain." 


Charges 
continued from page 1 
stolen credit card belonging to Notre Dame student Mar­garet Dougherty. 
His trial date is scheduled for August 13, according to the county prosecutor's of­fice. A record date is sched­uled for July 29 if he decides to plead guilty. 
If charged with the felony, Setzer faces up to ten years in jail or the state prison and a maximum fine of $5,000. 


Park 
continued from page 1 
stead of turning left or right, she hit the curb with a bang and drove right on through, said Roy Bank, 19, another NYU student. 
"She never slowed down when she came to the corner," he said. "Bodies were flying. She got out and walked away." 
Bank said he and others lifted the car off one person pinned alive underneath. 
Deputy Police Commissioner Suzanne Trazoff identified the driver as Stella G. Maychick, 74, ofYonkers . 

.• ,.J _,.. ••. .v.or •. ; -.l~ci.:;.;;l., !.,1M '··•r1••" ..l '' , • "' ., ., -c..JI .-t...rl_. .,,Jr;-, Y;;l...j 
-~·-----~----~·-~----­
page6 The Observer Friday, April 24, 1992 
Girl forced into lying about being abused 
MARIETIA, Ga. (AP)-The founder of an underground network that hides allegedly abused children bullied a 10­year-old girl into making up sexual abuse allegations against her father, the girl said Thursday. 
Alecia Watts of Merritt Island, Fla., testified in Cobb County Superior Court that Faye Yager took her away from her mother for four days in 1990 and said she couldn't see her mother again until she admitted being sexually abused. 
Aleda said Yager wanted her to describe the alleged abuse in writing or on videotape. She testified that she vomited twice during Yager's badgering. 
"I started to feel really sick and scared because I wanted to see my mom," Alecia testified. "I wrote that he (her father) touched me on my bottom and she believed me. I figure if I said that she would let me go back to my mom." 
Yager, founder of the Chil­dren's Underground Network, is on trial on charges of kidnapping, cruelty to children and interference with custody. 
She is accused of kidnap­ping Aleda's brother, Jarrod, in April 1990, taking Alecia from her mother for four days without permission and mistreating both children. At the time, Jarrod was 10 and Alecia was 8. 
Jarrod testified that Yager also pressured him into lying about his father by threaten­ing to send him back to the man. 
"And finally I said 'Yes,' and then she made me swear on the Bible that it was true," Jarrod said. 
The Children's Underground Network is secretive about how it hides children and their mothers from allegedly abusive fathers. Members of the network, which is said to have thousands of volunteers in all 50 states, help the mothers find jobs and a place to live. 
Yager, 44, claims to have hidden about 500 children from across the nation. 
Firm under investigation for sales to Iraq 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The White House took the unusual step Thursday of announcing that three federal agencies are investigating allegations a Pennsylvania manufacturer sold machine tools to Iraq during the Persian Gulf War. 
Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said Kennametal, Inc., of Latrobe, Pa., is being investigated by the Commerce Department's Office of Export Enforcement, the U.S. Customs Service and the Justice De­partment. 
At his morning briefing, Fitzwater also said the U.S. at­torney's office in Pittsburgh has convened a grand jury. But later, deputy press secretary Gary Foster said Fitzwater had been in etror about the grand jury investigation. 
U.S. Attorney Tom Corbett of Pennsylvania's Western District said, "The policy of this office is to not comment on whether or not there is any investigation." 
Fitzwater said the Customs Service is working with the U.S. attorney and "we cannot com­ment on any of the specifics." 
A television program, "Dateline NBC," said earlier this month that Kennametal had sold goods to Matrix Churchill Ltd, an Iraqi-owned precision-tool company based in England and once heavily involved in weapons production. 
Last Sunday, the company used a full-page newspaper ad­vertisement to denounce the ac­cusation as "an outrageous lie." 
"We have not heard from the 
U.S. attorney in Pittsburgh,'' said Bill Kennedy, spokesman for Kennemetal. "We have been battling these allegations for nine months ... We welcome any legitimate inquiry that will bring this to a conclusion." 
Fitzwater said he was making the announcement because a reporter had pressed him for information about the case. He would not say whether weapons parts were allegedly involved. 
Kennametal makes high-tech cutting tools used to make ma­chine tools. Asked if the com­pany had exported machine tools to Iraq, Kennedy said, "It's not as simple as that." 
"Kennametal did not inten­tionally break export laws in sales to Iraq," he said. "Iraq was fighting Iran at the time and was our alleged ally." 
According to Kennedy, the 
U.S. attorney in Atlanta con­vened a grand jury in August that resulted in no charges. 
"The U.S. attorney issued in Atlanta a letter to Kennametal, saying the company had broken no U.S. laws and complimented the company on its coopera­tion," Kennedy said. The letter was dated Jan. 17, 1992, he said. 
The charges were brought initially in a congressional sub­committee chaired by Rep. Charlie Rose, 0-N.C., Kennedy said. 
"A disgruntled Kennametal employee made the allega­tions," he added, that export loan guarantees issued by the Department of Agriculture had been used to finance military purchases by Saddam Hussein. 
In an open letter published as an advertisement in the Tri­bune-Review of Greensburg, Pa., the company repeated that the sales at issue had been made during the Iraq-Iran war and that its only shipments during the Persian Gulf War were of a product used in Eng­land by an automobile parts manufacturer. 
"The tools did not go to Iraq and had nothing to do with the Iraqi military," said the open letter, which was signed by Kennametal President Robert McGeehan. 



Rally 
continued from page 1 
of Bush as this year's gradua­
tion speaker. She said it was 
inappropriate to invite any po­
litical candidate to speak, and 
that the administration should 
have consulted graduating se­
niors before making a choice. 
Poorman also requested that 
seniors wear white armbands 
over their robes during the 
commencement ceremonies as 
a sign of protest. 
In what were perhaps the 
rally's strongest speeches, 
members of Gays and Lesbians 
at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
condemned violence against 
homosexuals as well as Univer­
sity discrimination against gays. 
Michael Vore, a NO graduate 
student, pointed to what he be­
lieved was the hypocrisy of Uni­
versity President Father Ed­
ward Malloy. Vore said that 
Malloy, in his doctoral disserta­
tion, urged sensitive treatment 
of homosexuals, yet he has re­
fused to recognize GLND/SMC 
as an official campus organiza­
tion. 
Vore also condemned ND for discriminating against homo­sexuals in its hiring practices. Vore claimed that Vice Presi­dent of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara refused to hire two men last summer because they were gay. 
Vore held the U.S. govern­ment accountable for its delay in properly addressing the AIDS epidemic, saying if a deadly disease began to affect heterosexuals, the government would act more quickly. 
Vore also criticized the NO administration for its ban on GLND/SMC advertisements in campus publications. 
In a belligerent speech con­demning Bush-sponsored vio­lence in the Middle East, one speaker said, "War sucks, killing sucks." 
Criticizing Bush's lack of ef­fort on healthcare issues, an­other speaker said that 69 per­cent of Americans, in a recent Wall Street Journal/NBC poll, favored a healthcare system similar to Canada's socialized program. 
In a speech laced with refer­ences to the American Revolu­tion, Grogan of DSA called for labor workers throughout the world to unite and advance their collective cause. 
Speakers also criticized Bush and his predecessor, former president Ronald Reagan, for devastating the U.S. economy over the past 12 years. 
Catherine Sheehy of Women United for Justice and Peace explained the role of her group, emphasizing that so-called "women's issues" were issues that concerned everyone, not 

Includes Soup, Salad Bar, Apoetizers. 8Entrees and Desserts 
,.,..., •••u It••• •••• aeallalllel 
30 Dixie Way S., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 272-7376 
just women. 

The speakers addressed the crowd in front of a banner that read "Overthrow the Status Quo-Revolution by Ballot Box," and all emphasized the impor­tance of voting and vocalizing concerns to representatives in government and other relevant figures. 
The rally lasted for approxi­mately one hour. Toward the end, one onlooker took advan­tage of the open microphone to voice his support for Bush. 
I I :30D to3:00Dm 





WELCOME ALUMNI-
Enjoy the Gamel 
Move up to •MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS• 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments (4 Apartments per Building) 

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 

• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 

• 
Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent For further infonnation call 277-3731 Located at Cleveland and Bendix 


In need of a professional summer job that you can list on your resume? 
Sell advertising space in the 1992-1993 

Daily Shillelagh School Calendar 
If you are enthusiastic/ have a high energy level & are a self starter and if you are a positive/ outgoing person who enjoys working with people/ call me today or send your resume to: 
Karen Prebys, Advertising Manager 
Penn~ Saver 

2102 South Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46613 Phone 282-4445 

...._.., ._.. --~----------­
... 
. -v'C ~ .. 
The Observer 

page 7 
Organic chemistry students recreate Nieuwland experiment 
By JOHN ROCK he worked with different reac­percent of faculty salaries were 
Managing Editor tions of acetylene until he iso­paid by these royalties. 
lated monovinylacetylene gas. "We couldn't do the actual 
Organic chemistry students Nieuwland and Knute Rockne, experiments Nieuwland did be­
had a chance to recrea~e a little his assistant and Notre Dame's cause they involve such danger­
of Notre Dame's past tHis week. most famous football coach, ous, explosive compounds," 
Organic chemistry la.Qoratory used to set their experiments up Peterson said. Instead, stu­
experiments this we~k were outside, somewhere between dents synthesized polystyrene, 
modeled after the Work of LaFortune and what is now Ri­nylon and cellulose triacetate, 
Father Julius Nieuwland. Holy ley Hall, said Peterson. which are polymers of relatively 
Cross priest, profe~sor of safe chemicals. 
chemistry and pioneer in the In 1925, Du Pont entered into "The students found these 
research of synthetic rubber. an agreement with Nieuwland experiments relevant to the real 
"I thought we would do these and the university to take over world, more so than some of 
experiments becaus~ there the commercial development of the other experiments they do," 
were so many organic students monovinylacetylene. By direct Peterson said. 
who probably didn't khow the addition of hydrogen chloride to Sophomore John Whapham 
history of Nieuwland Hall. monovinylacetylene, the re­jokingly, but accurately, de­
Father Nieuwland is the most sulting substance polymerizes, scribed the nylon experiment 
well known scientist that Notre or joins together with each "like twirling my fork in a mess 
Dame has produced. to this other. to form a plastic sub­of spaghetti," as long, thin 
point," said Kathy Peterson, di­stance which can be vulcanized threads of nylon were pulled 
rector of undergraduate or­into synthetic rubber. from beakers in lengths of sev­
ganic chemistry labs. The need for synthetic rubber eral feet. 
Nieuwland began his 'work by greatly increased during World "It was interesting to see how 
studying the reactions bf highly War II, and the university re­Father Nieuwland did chemistry 
volatile acetylenes for his thesis ceived royalties for Nieuwland's back in the beginning," said 
at Catholic University ip Wash­work throughout the 1930s and sophomore Kelly Dwyer. 
ington, D.C. For sever~! years, 1940s. In 1943, seventy-five 
Reduce Reuse, Recycle
' 



you with the Lear Jet. 
And the arsenal of secretaries. And the Harley Davidson. Collection. And t:he six figure bonus. ~'nd the catered dinners. With the stuffed prawns 6" long. Flown in from Madagascar. And the Carribbean sand between your toes. For the weekend. And the piece of mind that accompanies 
success. And retiring 15 years before your IRA matures. 
With the kids going to the finest schools. Getting an academic 
scholarship. That you tell the university to give to someone who needs 
it. Hey you, get to ~-for our LSAT course. In South Bend call 273-1866. 
--~--------------------------., 
Friday, April 24, H:l92 


SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, APRIL 20 
8 a.m. A faculty member reported be· ing harassed by an unknown suspect. 
11:11 a.m. A graduate student re· ported his observation of a suspicious person at the Fischer G1aduate Housing complex. 
1:03 p.m. Two Grace Hal! residents 
reported variou$ thefts .Jrot;n.t~eir rooms. .·· ..,,.. ,......,.... ,, . · ··•·.·.-.·· ·· · · · · 
p.m. ~ t;:arrpll Hall resident re­
obse some suspiciousk,..i)&tlio:nJsisl1oating ducks with a 88 
Bend. 
12:04 p.m. An injured South Dining Hall employee was trans!)9 
Joseph's Medical Center. t 
4:23 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Fire Department treated an injured I;:;: l1Aisl1awaka resident and transported 
. from Stepan basketball courts to ··St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL22 
8:37 a.m. Notre Dame Security investigated a report of counterfeit meal tickets used at South Dining Hall. 
· 8:45 a.m. tA Grace Hall resident re­ported the theft of his wallet from Theodore's. 1 
1:10 p.m•. A Canioil Hall resident re­ported the theft of his bookbag from the lobby of South Dining Hall. 
2:23 p.m. A Clarkston, Michigan resi· dent reported damage to his vehicle that was parked in the 02 stu~~nt parking lot ·'k 
5:28 p.m. Notre Dame Security 
·• ·· ·<I sl.lspir;iq~s Ocean y11¥1 Maryland resident fr6ih campus. .::~i&ii 
7:58 p.m. A Crown Point, Indiana .... resident reported the theft of his wallet 'hom his coat tl]at he left at the Rockne Memorial weight room•. )Jh•·· 9:24p.m. A Dillon Hall resident re­ported damage to his bicycle which 
· was p~rked outside the Compu~er Math Building. · · 
9:55 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jacket Iron}<out­side the Rockne Memorial we.ight room. 

--~-----------~ --~-~-----~---~--­
~a~e~a--------====-------------------,.,_F_:rid:::..:...ay, April 24, 1992 
ToP TEN REASONS TO ATTEND THE 


Alumni-Senior Picnic 
as established by the home office in Sobieski, Wisconsin 
10. Food and refreshments are free (meatless baked ziti and tofu NOT on menu). 
9. DARTing not required for admission. 
8. It's included in your tuition. 
7. No controversy over keynote speaker ·· there isn't one. 
6. Alumni club leaders will be on campus to visit with you and provide information about cities around the country which is handy if not planning on living in the Bend. 
5. Those plaid pants in your closet have been waiting for an occasion like this. 
4. It's a great time and is approved of by the University. 
3. Chocolate chip cookies. 
2. It's important to eat properly before mud pillow fights. 

1. Look, you're gonna be an alumnus in a couple of weeks·· find out just how cool alumni and alumni clubs are. Sooner or later, you're gonna be one of us! 

filumni-Senior i'icnic ot the filumni .. senior Club 

1842-1992 
Un•vers•tv ot Notre Dome 


Indiana State Law requires all guests at the Club to be 21. A valid student ID and driver's license is needed for admission however, special arrangements have been madefor graduating students under 21. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 25 11:30 AM·1:J0 PM 
Don't forget to stop by the Alumni Office (201 Main Buiding) to pick up your OFFICIAL "NO ALUMNI" WINDOW DECAL, AssociATION MEMBERSHIP CARD, and INFORMATIONAL Booi<LET on Associaion 
programs and services 

Uniw:rsity of Notr~ Dam~ 
Alumni Association 
Tht.: Alumni-Senior Picnic is sponsored by the NoTRE DAME ALUMNI AssociATION for the benefit of all grac.luating stuc.lt:nts. 
Friday, April 24, 1992 The Observer page 9 

LOS ANGELES (AP) Hundreds of aftershoc~s sent ripples of anxiety thlrough Southern California on Thursday, hours after a ,strong desert earthquake caused iso­lated damage and dozen$ of in­juries. 
Earthquake experts cautioned there was a slight cpance Wednesday night's magnitude 
6.1 tremor could be a precursor to the long-dreaded "Big One." 
"We're long overdue for one -a 7.0 or greater ... sol we're advising communities ... to be on their toes." said Lt. Ben Nottingham, spokesman for the Los Angeles County Office of Emergency Management.: 
Authorities estimated damage from the quake at up to $1 mil­lion in the Morongo ijasin, which includes the communities of Joshua Tree and Yucca Valley about 100 miles oast of Los Angeles. 1 
"There are no two1story buildings out here and that could contribute to the low damage figures," said Sgt. Ben Boswell, commander of San Bernardino County's disaster preparedness division. 
The state Office of Emergency Services advised authorities in six Southern California counties to be on alert even though the probability of a great earthquake -one registering at least 7.5 on the Richten scale -decreased rapidly with each hour. 
By Thursday, the U.S. Geological Survey saiCjl the chance of such a shaker had fallen to less than one in 20. 
Hundreds of tiny aftershocks were felt Thursday nea1r the epicenter. Five registered 1more than 4.0 on the Richter scale, said Linda Curtis, a USGS spokeswoman. 
Some people weren't t~king any chances. Paul Hughes, manager of a Hughes super­market in Pasadena, said 1 sales of bottled water Thursday]were 
r 
"The water's just flying out of here," he said. "As a matter of fact, we're adding an additional pallet of bottles ... to make sure we have enough on hand." 
Wednesday's shaker struck at 
9:50 p.m. and was centered about 110 miles east of Los Angeles near Palm Springs in Riverside County. A magnitude­
4.6 quake shook the same area 2 1/2 hours earlier. 
"It was like something hit the side of the wall," said Ed Bowlin, a 26-year-old security guard at the Hyatt Regency Suites in Palm Springs. "It was like, this is your Earth Day wake-up call." 
The quake rocked buildings from San Diego to Santa Barbara, 200 miles up the coast. Residents as far away as Las Vegas and Phoenix reported feeling the temblor. 
"I lived in San Francisco for 39 years and I never felt one this strong," said Vi Richardson, 62, who was lying in bed on the top floor of the Circus Circus Hotel in Las Vegas when the quake struck. "I thought (it) never would stop shaking." 
Back in California, 15 people were taken to Hi-Desert Medical Center in Yucca Valley with minor injuries. Ten were treated and released and five were admitted with injuries ranging from a broken ankle to cuts and bruises, said Theresa Graham, a hospital spokeswoman. All were listed in 
~ 
SU?It??t&'R S'7tJ7iUt;& 
CALL FOR RESERVATION MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSE 
683-1959 (AFfER 5 -272-8656) 
~ ~ 
Desert Hospital in Palm Springs said it treated and re­leased 10 people. 
Building inspectors from throughout the regiion were in the field Thursday assessing the quake's toll on property. 
Eighteen buildings in Joshua Tree were damaged, including a coffee shop and hair salon that were ordered condemned, said Jeff Mellinger, a San Bernardino County fire spokesman. 
The Red Cross set up an emergency shelter at a church in Joshua Tree for displaced families. Twenty-nine people spent the night at the shelter Wednesday, said Red Cross spokesman John Walters. 
"Most were just afraid to go back into their homes," he said. "They said they felt safer here with other people." 
A Twenty-nine Palms conve­nience store lost part of its roof, and four fire stations in the Morongo Valley sustained minor damage. An undetermined number of residential buildings also sustained damage. 
The Richter scale is a mea­sure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude. 
An earthquake of 6 on the Richter scale can cause severe damage. A 7 reading is a "major" earthquake, capable of widespread heavy damage. 
NASA spacecraft offers insight into Big Bang 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -A spacecraft has discovered the largest and oldest structures in the universe, wispy clouds that show how creation's "big bang" led to formation of stars and galaxies, scientists said Thursday. 
"If you're religious, it's like looking at God," said research team leader George Smoot, an astrophysicist at Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and the University of California, Berkeley. 
The discovery was made by NASA's Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) satellite dur­ing its $400 million mission to study the universe's origins. 
Researchers say more than 300 million measurements by the spacecraft answer a ques­tion that has long vexed scientists: How did matter that was uniformly spread out in the newborn universe start clumping together to produce stars, galaxies and clusters of galaxies? 
If the research is confirmed, "it's one of the major discoveries of the century. In fact, it's one of the major discoveries of science," said physicist Joel Primack of the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
Smoot and his team pre­sented the findings at an American Physical Society meeting in Washington, D.C. NASA also issued an an­nouncement. 
"We have observed what we believe are the largest and most ancient structures in the universe," extremely thin clouds or ripples that represent the earliest stages of matter starting to clump together in the newborn uni­verse, Smoot said during a Washington news conference. 
21 AND STILL KICKIN'! HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY JOY! 
He said the clouds were formed only about 300,000 years after the big bang, the primordial blast scientists be­lieve created the universe 15 billion years ago. 
The largest clouds stretch across two-thirds of the known universe, or 59 billion trillion miles, Smoot said. That's roughly 120 million billion roundtrips between Earth and the moon. 
"If they are right, it is a very big deal," said Joseph Silk, a professor of astronomy and physics at UC-Berkeley. He said it would answers nagging doubts about the big bang theory. 
"This is unbelievably impor­tant," said Michael Turner, a University of Chicago physicist. "The significance of this cannot be overstated. They have found the Holy Grail of cosmology. ... If it is indeed correct, this certainly would have to be considered for a Nobel Prize." 
The discovery also supports the theory that up to 90 percent of the universe is made of invisible "dark mat­ter" that scientists haven't yet been able to identify, Smoot said. 
The big bang theory gained crucial support with the 1964 discovery of cosmic back­ground microwave radiation, the big hang's "afterglow." But the radiation was "smooth," which meant matter was uniformly distributed through the new­born universe. 
The Earth-orbiting COBE satellite, launched on an un­manned rocket from Van­denberg Air Force Base in 1989, detected incredibly tiny temperature variations in the afterglow. 
For the Health of It 
Keeping your weight at a moderate level may scale down your risk of heart attack. So maintain a healthy diet and lighten up on your heart. 

SPECIFY QUANTITY lc SIZE  s  M  L  XL  XXL  TOTAL•  TOTAL PJiiCE  
T·SHIRTS  
SWEATS  
TOTALCOST  ~  

1·2 WEEK DELIVERY CALL(314}445·8787 
(ADD $2 FOR SIZE XXUADD $3.50 PER ORDER FOR SHIPPING) 
MAKE CHEOCS PAYABLE TO: ROHEN ENTERPRISES 2005 PARK DE VILLE PLACE PLEASE RETlJRN 11115 FORM WJTll ORDER COLUMBIA, MO 65203 
FORM OF PAYMENT: MONEY ORDER_CHECK 
---------EXP. DATE-­
-----~ -~-~ ---~--~ --~~-~ 
Page 10 
. •••. ,,; ' . : .. . 
. 
·-~" 

,.,... • ... ~·:·f· .. • • • 
' . . .. .':": <(.-·;~ .•••...• :· 
. ...i:_t~ • 
~~ .·: 
. ~-/
..... ...... 

..'=:·" . . 
': ~
.~. . . 
,~ -~#.. 
·--~ .\'"'..
..··· .. 

9:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. Friday at Stepen Center 
Midnight Showing of Rocky Horror Picture 
Frida~April24, 1992
The Observer 
J 

HaJifiy ttewman 

Professional Lunatic 
Saturday. April 24th in Stepan Center 7:30p.m. 
Free Admission Fireworks to follow Stepan Field 
University of Notre Dam~ 

Help Break  Alumni Association  
STUDENT UNION HOARD  
the world record in  
SiJDon Sez  

(Held by 4000 Miami Students) Friday, 7:30 ~ 
in Basketball Arena Free Ice CreaJD to all Participants Winner receives a VCR 

Friday, April 24, 1992 The Observer 
Pemex suspends further gas deliveries; Three officials blamed for explosion 

GUADALAJARA, Mexico (AP) -Fearing more explosions, authorities Thursday evacuated a neighborhood near a working-class district wrecked a day earlier by sewer-line blasts that killed as many as 202 people amd injured over 1,300. 
Moving quickly to control po­litical damage, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari gave his attorney general 72 hours to determine who was at fault for Mexico's deadliest explosion since 1984. The state governor blamed three city officials (or taking no action on residents' complaints of leaking gas. 
The national oil company Pe­mex continued to deny blaiine for the blasts, but suspended its natural gas deliveries to in­dustrial customers in the He­forma neighborhood and closed its gas stations there' as a "safety precaution," said l?e­mex's director-general, Fran­cisco Rojas. 
Eziquiel Mendez of the state attorney general's office said investigators were checktng equipment at the La Central cooking-oil plant and others that use explosive hexane gas. They were also checking Pemex installations, he said. 
About a half-mile from a Pe­mex storage facility in the city, workmen and safety officilals Thursday afternoon found an underground pool of gasoline by a Pemex pipeline. 
Men with copies of the layout of sewers and pipes in the area said the leaky pipe appeared not to be connected to the sew­ers where the blasts occurred. 
Jalisco state health minister Dr .. Pa)!'lmon Rodrigt,Iez srid half those killed in
1 

Wednesday's accident w~re children. Gov. Guillermo Cosio Vidaurri said 1,361 people were injured. The first damage estimate was $300 million. 
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported the student caller incentive program. 


Azar's Big Boy Barnaby's Family Inn Baskin Robins 31 Ice Cream & Yogurt Beacon Bowl Blue Jay's Nest Bonnie Doon Ice Cream Corporation Calico Garden Captain Alexander's Wharf Chi-Chi's Restaurante Chick Fil A of University Park Mall Chili's Grill & Bar Country Florist & Gifts Inc. The Country Harvester Damon's The Place for Ribs Doc Pierce's Restaurant Dunkin Donuts South Bend Ehninger Florist . Floral House & Gifts Inc. Flowers By Stephen Frank's Red Hots. Gloria Jean's Coffee Bean Jeff Gonzalez Great Wall Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Hacienda Mexican Restaurant-
Indiana Ridge Plaza Hana ori of Ja an 

Salinas said the government would carry "to its utmost con­sequences the investigation of the causes of the tragedy and the circumstances that pro­duced it." 
Weeping survivors thronged the Reforma district, where the explosions destroyed 20 to 25 square city blocks, hurling cars and trucks into the air and blowing up adobe houses. About 15,000 were left home­less, officials said. 
At a makeshift morgue in a sports stadium, relatives wailed as they looked at a list of names of the dead identified so far. Every few minutes, an announcement from a speaker told the bereaved the govern­ment would pay for funeral costs. 
With the grief came anger: residents demanded to know 
Horse Country of Galena I Can't Believe It's Yogurt The Landing Little Professor Book Center Nick's Patio Noble Roman's Pizza The Original Pancake House Papa John's Pizza Patricia Ann Florist Pepe's Mexican Restaurant Pizza Hut-Roseland Ponderosa Steakhouse Posy Patch Rathskeller Restaurant Rax Restaurant Red Lobster Restaurants Ryan's Family Steakhouse Sh-Booms Grille Subway Sandwiches & Salads Sunshine Gourmet & Coffee Co. Suzanne's Floral United Limo, Inc. Video Warehouse Wendy's of Ft. Wayne, Inc. A Yellow Rose 
why the government failed to act promptly on reports of fumes. 
"If they knew, why didn't they tell us?" asked Ramon Guerra, 22, who helped pull the bodies of his aunt and his 6-year-old nephew from the ruins of their home. 
The state governor identified those to blame as city Fire Chief Jose Trinidad Lopez Ri­vas, municipal services director David Aftimos Partida and Gualberto Limon, head of the agency that operates the Guadalajara sewer system. 
Cosio Vidaurri said, "It was a situation in which an evaluation had to be made and for some reason the necessary precautions were not taken." 
But he backed off earlier comments in which he said the three would be charged with crimina] negligence. 
In a preventive measure, Mayor Enrique Dau Flores ordered the evacuation of a section of the Alamo district east of Reforma after residents complained of fumes. The area is surrounded by about 40 fac­tories,including a Pemex plant. 
Mexico has a large concen­tration of heavy industry in major metropolitan areas, and there have been several gas ex­plosions in its cities in recent years, including a 1984 blast in Mexico City that killed 452 peo­ple. · 
Salinas' governing party suf­fered severe political repercus­sions after its inadequate re­sponse to the 1985 Mexico City earthquake that killed 10,000 people. 
The state gove,rnment has suggested that La Central al­lowed hexane, a volatile chemi­cal used in extracting oil from seeds, to leak into the sewer system. 
page 11 
The Observer/Meg Kowalski 

There's no place like home! 
Knott Hall sophomore Jenny Wenzke begins to unpack her dorm room as she anxiously awaits her trip home to Ohio. Students have already started counting down the two weeks left in the school year 

Ethnic leaders agree to cease-fire in Bosnia 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegov­ina (AP) -Fighting erupted in Sarajevo on Thursday just hours after the warring parties signed a truce amid sniper fire and promised to resume talks on the newly independent state's future. 
The glow of burning buildings lit the rainy night sky. The harsh reports of gunfire and the roar of mortar explosions resounded through the streets of Ilidza, a picturesque suburb. 
Th~ fighting pits ethnic Serbs and the Serbian-led Yugoslav army against Muslims and eth­nic Croats who supported Bosnia's secession from Yu­goslavia. The Serbs oppose in­dependence, claiming they will be a persecuted minority. 
The army and Serbian irregu­lars have seized chunks of northern and eastern Bosnia in fighting that many fear could be more grisly than the seven months of war over Croatian 


is now accepting application for the following position: 
Design Editors 
Paid Position 
independence. About 250 people have died since Bosnia's independence referendum in February. 
The European Community­brokered cease-fire was signed Thursday by leaders of Bosnia's Muslim, Croat and Serb factions, as well as the federal army, at the city's airport. But it was disrupted by sniper fire, which forced reporters and 
U.N. observers to duck for cover under parked cars. 
All-out battles raged Thurs­day night in Ilidza, a century­old neighborhood of ponds, parks and small hotels that once was a spa for the well-to­do. Mortar rounds were fired from the Muslim settlements of Butmir and Sokolovic, about a half-mile away. 
Serb fighters directed fire back at the Muslim areas, aim­ing especially at a grain silo they believed housed many of the Muslim fighters. 



---::A---..

--~~----~~--~~ 
· • · • ~ ·• • • • • • • • • ,. ·•·,. '• ·,. ·.. ·.. • ·., ·, • ·._ ·,. ·~ ·• ·., •• ·,. ·• '• ·• ·• ·, • • • • ·, · • ·,·,·, ., f' r., ~ r •· ,. r • -. r .-" "' r f" r· ,. ,.. r .,. 1" .. " P r ,. • ~ • • ,. ~ ~ •· "' ... .,. .,. ... ,.. ., •· ...... , ..... ~... .~~. -, -, ..; • -,._ . . .. -• ~ ... -~ ........ ­


Viewpoint 
Page 12 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor.•.................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor..••••••.•.•••.... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ....•.•...... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ..•.•.•.. Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager......•....... Patrick Barth Photo Edltor.••........ Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ...•.••.....•.•...... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor..Anna Marie Tabor Controller.••.•.......•...•.....•. David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Friday, April 24, 1992 
•
• 


Law is not the only way to debate abortion 
Dear Editor: out offering acceptable solu­imperfect one). So, societies I think that to answer this hibited in society; however, this 
I have been observing the tions to abortion. That is why I prohibit abortion in an effort to question it is necessary to dis­is a tricky argument. It is 
"debate" about abortion on would like to address the prob­avoid such action. But is cuss why a woman chooses to wrong to rely exclusively upon 
campus, and all over the coun­lem without "emotional adjec­criminal law an efficacy or ad­abort in the first place (surely a criminal law to judge the 
try. There is something about tives." equate instrument to avoid very difficult choice). values of a society. Is a society 
it that bothers me. As a very I think that abortion is not a abortion? I think it is not. Which incentives allow that permits abortion a society 
relevant problem, the debate "desirable" action. Forgive me In my country, Chile, abortion society to let or encourage that accept abortion as 
on abortion involves strong if this sounds weak for people is severely penalized, but there women to have and raise their desirable? Not necessarily! 
emotions among people and it that believe that abortion is a are thousands of abortions children? What support can a The law is not the only way to 
is natural that such a deep and crime, but remember that I am anyway. The people who suffer woman expect from society if measure the values of a society, 
critical problem evokes these trying to consider the problem most from the prohibition of she decides to have her baby? and criminal law is not the ex­
feelings. When I hear about without using emotional adjec­abortion are the poor women Does society provides for her clusive instrument used to en­
the deaths that abortion tives. As a non-desirable con­who abort in unhygienic and child care, health and support force society's values. To judge 
causes, or a prayer for the duct, society must do its best dangerous conditions (the for raising her child? Can a the values of a society, it is nec­
unborn, I also feel touched by effort to avoid it. wealthy ones can afford a pri­woman find moral and material essary to look to its policies, to 
this terrible reality. How can society avoid non­vate clinic with "discretion"). I expressions of solidarity and its whole system of incentives. 
However. I think that such an desirable actions? There are cannot say that the problem of support in society if she decides The question is not "is abortion emotional debate will not lead different instruments by which abortion has been addressed in to have her baby? If we think permitted?" but "is abortion ef­to a solution. The moral de­a society can induce the behav­Chile because of its prohibition. that abortion is a non-desirable fectively avoided?" bate concerning the beginning ior of people through its system If criminal law is not ade­conduct, how can we avoid it? Cristian Correa of life is sterile and will con­of incentives. One of these in­quate for solving the problem It appears terrible that such Institute for International tinue throughout eternity with-centives is criminal law (a very of abortion, what can be done? a undesirable action is not pro-Peace Studies 
Education Act promises information, gender equity 
Dear Editor: and such data will be compiled National Collegiate Athletic between the men's and Independent audits would en­
My purpose in writing is to in the following categories: Association (NCAA) and The women's intercollegiate athletic courage institutions of higher seek your support for a portion football, men's basketball, Chronicle of Higher Education programs. education to compile current, of a bill approved by the House women's basketball, all other (see "Men Outnumber Women accurate, and complete finan­of Representatives. men's sports combined and all and Get Most of Money in Big­This bill would provide valu­cial data despite competitive 
In the March 26, 1992 other women's sports com­Time Sports Programs" by able information to students pressures to attract the best "Congressional Record-House," bined. Douglas Lederman, April 8, prior to enrollment concerning athletes. pages H 1855-56, I believe that enactment of 1992). possible problems which an in­In short, it would permit par­Representative's Henry's intro­this or similar athletics disclo­The NCAA had a 76 percent stitution may be experiencing ents and students to make intel­duced an amendment to the sure bill would have the follow­response rate and The due to diminishing resources in ligent choices based upon veri­"Higher Education Act of ing benefits: Chronicle a 68 percent response an era of retrenchments. This fied information and encourage1992"(H. H. 4471, pages 383-4). It would provide prospective rate. Institutions of higher edu­information could prevent the institutions of higher education This approved amendment students and their parents with cation which provide a rela­selection of an inappropriate to meet their gender equitywould require institutions of information concerning the rel­tively low allocation of re­institution for some athletes obligations.higher education that offer ative monetary investments in sources to athletes of one sex in and the resulting inconvenience Therefore, your support of the athletically related student aid the men's and women's inter­their intercollegiate athletic 
if these athletes decide to above described amendment to to make publicly available an­collegiate athletics program of program would tend to have a transfer to another institution. the "Higher Education Act of nual compilations of intercol­all institutions of higher educa­diminished ability to attract the National Collegiate Athletic 1992" is strongly urged. legiate athletics, financial rev­tion. more skillful athletes of that 
Association rules prohibit enues, and expenditures. sex. In this manner, market transferring athletes from en­Frank R. Soda These compilations shall be In recent voluntary surveys on competition mechanism is ap­gaging in intercollegiate athlet­Towson, MD independently audited not less sex equity in intercollegiate ath­plied to stimulate equitable dis­ics in the first year of their en­
April 17, 1992 often than every three years letic programs conducted by the tribution of scarce resources rollment. 
DOONESBURY 

A P/3?FCCT 54/NT;YOUk&NOT GtTOUTA IT 7VRNS OUT. H/3R.lWll!SAP-H&~?£-HIGffE/i?fietFJUST
FVINTWSH&'S SH&'5 TOW M/3 7HAT IN 
NOTABIJ,Bt PeRFeCT/ HtR. PR/3VIW5 UF&, RJU8/I{X? \ 5Ht!AJ45MOTH/3R.
\ TCR54! 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
BOOPS!t, 
(I,J(}IAJ. .. 5H{3

MJTHeR 
MU5T~UK8 

lER£.~'5 
ASCOUTa<

STIUAL.!Vf5.. 
5a'r1&7HIN6.
\ 
\ 

'Sometimes you get shown the light in the strangest places if you look at it right.' 
Grateful Dead 
a o m o s u b m i t o m o a: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND,/N 46556 



By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will resume a springtime football tradition tomorrow afternoon whep the 62nd annual Blue-Gold (;arne kicks off the 1992 football sea­son. 
Despite losses in the person­nel of their strongest units, the Irish are already being hemlded as threats to next y,ear's national championship,. But coach Lou Holtz points tp his­tory to make a point about predictions. 
"Notre Dame has histotically been overrated in the rankings at the beginning of the season, and underrated at the end," he said. "If you look at rece~t his­tory, that's the way it's goqe." 
Holtz's assessment of his tal­ent usually slants to the cynical side. In all probability, the coach is aiming for a New Year's Day bowl and a dhance for the 1992 national champi­onship. 
Saturday's game will give fans a good look at the team that will make a run at that championship, despite the fact that several key pieces are 
I 

I·' 



Irish Football 

• 

A Supplement to the Observer 
excited about Johnson's 
maturation as a player. 

"Clint Johnson has shown an 
awful lot of progress over the 
last year," he said. "But the 
question remains whether he 
can replace the talented and 
productive Tony Smith." 

Johnson showed some of his 
big-play ability at last year's 
Blue-Gold game, as he returned 
a kickoff 94 yards for a touch­
down, while Miller's explosive­
ness is a legend before its own 
time. 

But the Blue's offensive fire­
power does not end there, as 
running backs Jerome Bettis 
and Reggie Brooks stack up 
behind Mirer. But Holtz is wor­
ried about depth at the position. 
"We have a concern at run­
ning back," he said. "Reggie 
Brooks and Jerome Bettis have 
firmly set themselves at number 
one. But beyond that, there are 
question marks." 

The Irish also have question marks on the offensive line. But two solid blocks from the wall which protected Mirer in 1991 return to play on the Blue team's line tomorrow. 
Aaron Taylor and Todd Norm an will likely fill the starting guard spots for the Irish in 1992, and both will practice blocking for Bettis and Brooks in Saturday's game. 
The Gold defense will spend the afternoon trying to both break through the Blue line and stop Mirer and his slew of tar­gets. 
A defensive line led by senior Eric Jones and bolstered by ju­niors Bryant Young and Oliver Gibson could be a preview of a 1992 starting unit. The Irish had trouble throughout 1991 on the defensive line, what with overall inexperience, as well as injuries to Young and Jones at midseason. But Holtz is im­pressed with the unit's im­provement this spring. 
"Eric Jones and Bryant Young have both come to the forefront this spring," he said. "Defensively we've made a lot of progress." 
The Gold's defensive strengths, however, do not stop at the defensive line. Sometime 1991 starters Karl McGill, Anthony Peterson, Germaine Holden and Justin Goheen will start at linebacker, while the Gold's secondary includes Tom Carter and John Covington. 
While the Gold defense in­cludes many of Notre Dame's standouts from the last season, the team's true defensive star will be playing for the Blue on Saturday. 
see BLUE/page 2 


Blue primes offensive weapons 
Despite absences, game will preview 1992 campaign 



Lou Holtz 

missing from the next edition of the Irish football puzzle. 
The Blue team offense fea­tures all of Notre Dame's big­play guns, fired by quarterback and captain Rick Mirer, entering his senior season as the Irish general. 
Mirer will drive a unit which includes tight end Oscar McBride, split end/kickoff re­turner Clint Johnson and flanker Mike Miller. The latter two make up the fastest legs of the Irish relay team of wideouts, providing the breakaway threat which the Irish have lacked since the departure of Raghib Ismail to the CFL after the 1990 season. Holtz is especially 
The Observer/ David Lee Junior fullback Jerome Bettis, pictured in last year's 24-20 win against Southern Cal, will be in the Blue's backfield with Reggie Brooks. 
Blue & Gold '92 Friday, April 24, 1992
page 2 


Mike Miller makes return to Irish gridiron for Blue 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Michael Miller arrived at Notre Dame last fall carrying a full load of expectations on his shoulders. A nationally-recog­nized star coming out of high school, Miller was the premier recruit of the 1995 Notre Dame football class. 
The extra weight finally slowed Miller down after a tough loss to Michigan, and the speedster returned home after just three appearances on the Irish return team. 
But this spring, Miller is back and firmly entrenched in the academic and athletic aspects of his student life. Tomorrow he will start at flanker for the Blue team in the 62nd annual Blue­Gold Ganw. 
Miller landed in South Bend last August under close scrutiny. With the departure of Haghib Ismail fresh in the minds of most Irish fans, Miller was touted as the next Rocket. Fans and media proclaimed him a savior to Notre Dame's special teams and a true star in what was perceived as a weak freshman class. 
"After I graduated (from high 

·school), I was traveling around a lot, and I didn't really have any time alone," said Miller. "Then I came here and football started right away." 
That was a lot of pressure for a 19-year old to handle. When Miller withdrew from school football groove. A nagging hamstring injury kept him out of much of the fall practices before he left Notre Dame, and he has only recently been able to take on the arduous task of learning Lou Holtz's playbook. 

"Right now I've only practiced for 14 days," he said. "I don't have that whole season's foun­dation underneath me. I was hurt for the entire fall, so I couldn't condition like the rest of the players. That has hurt me this spring, because I wasn't in good shape." 
Miller's legs were strong enough to produce a stellar 4.2 in his spring docking of. the 40 yard dash. That time was the fastest by an Irish offensive player since Ismail's departure, and the best on the Notre Dame team this spring. 
His raw acceleration, coupled with his improvement through­out spring practice, has impressed coach Lou Holtz. 
"This is just like coming right out of high. school for him," said Holtz. "He has a lot to learn. But we like what we've seen him do with the football." 
But while Miller's flashy play grabs attention, he has been in­consistent, and his mistake­prone game has frustrated re­ceivers coach Skip Holtz. 
"He's made some strides and shown flashes," said Skip Holtz, who works with Miller on a day­to-day basis. "But he's really inexperienced and has had trouble this spring with consistency." 
But Miller's potential is what keeps Irish coaches high on his future. His speed and cutting ability, which enabled him to run back several kicks for touchdowns during his senior high school season, could make him a future star for the Irish. 
"He (Miller) could be a big play threat next year," said Holtz. "He hasn't been able to break very many this spring, but I am counting on the fact that Mike Miller will develop." 
In order to develop. Miller will need to combat the pressures which forced him home last semester. But he is confident that he can defeat them now that the first rounds of publicity surrounding his college football career are over. 
"The pressure will probably be the same this time around," said Miller. "There are a lot of eyes on me, because a lot of people know who I am now." 
Most Notre Dame football observers remember Miller from his performance in the Michigan game last season, during which he returned 3 kickoffs for a 6.3-yard average and had one live-yard punt re­turn. 
But Miller doesn't want Irish fans to remember him for that performance. 
"I can't tell anyone exactly what I am going to do in the future," said Miller. "My actions are going to speak louder than my words." 


Blue 
continued from page 1 Led by captain Demetrius DuBose at inside linebacker, the Blue defense features a punishing linebacking corps and solid play on the rest of the field. Fifth-year senior Devon McDonald returns to rush end, while Junior Bryant and Pete Bereich shore up the front seven. Jeff Burris makes a return to free safety after a second-half switch to cornerback during the 
1991 season. And when one­time free safety Willie Clark returns to the Irish secondary 
next fall, he may find no room. 
"Jeff Burris, the safetyman, has become an excellent player," said Holtz. "He has risen a notch above most safet­ymen I've been associated and returned to Missouri City, Texas, after the second game of the 1991 season, he tried to recover from the shock he had experienced at Notre Dame. 
Miller moved back home, en­rolled part-time at the University of Houston and planned his future. 
"The time I spent at home gave me time to be with myself and find my soul," he said. 
Miller's soul-searching, which culminated in a decision to re­turn to Notre Dame, has paid off for him and for the Irish re­ceiving and return corps. 
"I feel a lot more comfortable this spring," Miller said. "I feel I've adjusted really well aca· demically. The first time I was here, I had an introduction to college. So this time, it has been easy." 
While the sophomore-to-be has found adjustment to his Notre Dame classload easy, he has had trouble getting into the 
with." 

Burris will be hoping Saturday to intercept a pass thrown by Gold starting quarterback Kevin McDougal. who will target senior wide receivers Adrian Jarrell and Ray Griggs, as well as tight end lrv Smith, when he throws the ball. 
But when McDougal is not throwing, he will be handing off to backfield hopefuls Ray Zellars, Dean Lytle and Lee Becton. Zellars and Lytle are battling for the backup fullback position behind the all-world Bettis. 
But these two are not the best blockers on the Gold offense. That title belongs to tackle Lindsay Knapp and center Tim Ruddy, both of whom will likely 
start for the 1992 Irish. . The Observer/R.Garr Schwartz .. Lindsay Knapp has had a ~emetnus D~B~se, shown here in last season's loss to Tennessee, will anchor the Blue defense Saturday. solid spring," said Holtz. "And n~d about his !me. a legitimate concern. We also With all of the poor-mouthing Tim Ruddy is going to be a line . You have t_o b~ co"ncern~d have great concerns at running Holtz is doing this spring, 1992 football player." wit~ the offensive !me, he said. back, tailback, fullback andre-could be a glorious year for But Holtz, as always, is wor-"It IS a major concern, and it is ceiver." Irish football. 

t=~---g----------~~~~~--~--­
.. :orne Betti&-6 S1 
... David F 181-27 Clint J~
::-__ 4if' _,__ 
Lamar Guillory-20 ~ Tim Kluaaa-43 Q8 

~·~~.. 
RG Todd Notrnan-«l Jaaon Bed<wllh--6:3 



Irish Footb,all '92 
page 3 Friday, April 24, 1992 




Irish offense shows signs of aerial explosiveness 
By RICH SZABO made highlight films nationwide tential to be an outstanding had in spring practice, the fall running backs coach Earle Associate Sports Editor with his catch and subsequent tight end. McBride caught two should see the return of Lake Mosley. "He's the most recog­touchdown run with four passes last year, but figures to Dawson, who left school this nizable of the backs. and he has defenders on his back against be more involved in the Irish of­semester for personal reasons. had a good spring." 
When the Fighting Irish t~ke Dawson is one of the most ex­Along with Bettis, the Irish
Indiana last season, will inherit fense this coming season. 
to the field this Saturday in~the 
perienced receivers, having boast a number of fine backs
the starting job. He has really The competition at wide re­annual Blue-Gold game, spe ,ta­
come on in the spring, ceiver promises to be heated, as started 11 games last season, who can carry the football. 
tors will likely see signs o . an 
according to receivers coach the Irish boast many quality re­catching 24 passes for 433 Dean Lytle and Ray Zellars have offense that will have explosive Skip Holtz. ceivers capable of hauling in the yards and one touchdown in the shown promise this spring andcapability in the coming season. 
catch. regular season. will be capable of stepping in"Irv has really been outstand­The Irish have the talent ~nd ing," said Holtz. "He's a big-time "There's going to lbe lots of Also, William Pollard (two for Bettis at the fullback po­the skill to put some impressive 
tight end who has continued to competition at wide receiver in catches for 50 yards, one TO} sition.
numbers up on the scoreboard. 
the fall," said Holtz. "We got a will be back in the fall after At tailback, Reggie BrooksEven with the loss of four-year improve. He's taken it to another level." good evaluation on everybody. sitting out spring drills due to and Lee Becton have come onstarter and All-American t~ght Backing up Smith will be Not many people had a lot of shoulder surgery in January. strong in practice. Brooksend Derek Brown, the Irish .will 
playing experience, so it was All in all, for the Irish re­rushed for 122 yards on 18
not miss a beat. Irv Smith, Who Oscar McBride, who has the po­critical for us to get them in ceivers, the Blue-Gold game carries last fall. including the scrimmages. Overall, it was a looks to be a strong finish to a season's longest gain, a 65-yard very productive spring, and we promising spring practice. gallop against Navy. Becton. 
got better." Look for the Irish to open up who will be a sophomore, saw 
Leading the way for the Irish the passing offense a little in the limited action last season, this spring were Ray Griggs and fall. With veteran quarterback carrying the ball 15 times for 62 Adrian Jarrell, the two re­Rick Mirer back for his senior yards in six games, but will ceivers in spring drills with the season, the Irish have the undoubtedly be a more most playing experience. Jarrell potential to put up some big important contributor to the is coming back from a broken passing numbers. Irish offense this season. arm that sidelined him for all of "We have a seasoned quar­Willie Clark started the final last season. Griggs started three terback," said Holtz, "and we nine games of the season in the games last year, hauling in five have the ability to open· it up secondary, but did see action at catches for 66 yards. and do some things." tailback, carrying 18 times for 
Another player who has burst Echoed Johnson, "Rick has 114 yards. An elusive runner, onto the scene this spring is proven himself to be a more Clark may also see action in the Clint Johnson. Johnson returned than capable quarterback and backfield this coming season, a kickoff for a touchdown in last we have the receivers to open further bolstering a strong year's Blue-Gold game, and also up the game a little more." group of running backs. had one against Hawaii in last Of course, this explosive Irish Not only do the Irish runners year's regular-season finale. He passing game will be set up by a bruise on the ground. but they has the speed to make things bruising ground attack, can also come out of the back-. happen when he gets his hands something that Lou Holtz­field and catch passes, all part on the ball. coached squads have excelled of Mosley's goal to develop 
"Clint has been a pleasant at. prototypical backs. 
surprise this spring and he's "We've worked in all facets of earned a position in the wide The Irish averaged almost 270 the game," said Mosley, "and receiver group," said Holtz. yards per game on the ground we've developed our men into 
Added Johnson, "Everybody is last season, and fans can expect total running backs, backs who getting better this spring. That's more of the same from this can run with the ball and catch what practice is for, to give year's team. it out of the backfield. Some everybody the opportunity to Fullback Jerome Bettis will may be better at one facet than produce. Some of the younger lead the way. Bettis is coming others. but everyone can con­guys like Mike Miller and off a superb season in which he tribute." Charles Stafford have come to rushed for 972 yards and "We have a fine running the forefront, and we still have scored an Irish-record 20 game, " continued Mosley, "and Ray (Griggs) and Adrian touchdowns, 16 of them coming talented players who can exe­(Jarrell), so everybody is really on the ground. In the Sugar cute. Our running game should contributing right now." Bowl, he rumbled for 150 yards, be very productive." 
Miller and Stafford, both scoring three touchdowns in a With a pounding ground at­sophomores, will be seeing ac­span of less than three minutes, tack and the potential for Rick tion this fall to get them the to garner MVP honors in Notre Mirer to launch it deep to a experience they both need to hit Dame's 39-28 victory over bevy of talented receivers, the the big time. Florida. Irish offense should be giving 
On top of all of these quality "Jerome will share his load of opposing defensive coordinators receivers that the Irish have the responsibility," said Irish nightmares for months to come. 
New Notre Dame coaching staff prepares to make debut tomorrow 
By JENNY MARTEN reacted favorably to the American quarterback Tom and 16th in passing defense. far has been acclimating to the 
Associate Sports Editor changes in the coaching staff Clements returns to Irish foot­Trgovac and Minter have pre­standards of excellence that according to head coach Lou ball, but this time on the side­viously worked together (1986-have been set up here," said Holtz. lines as the quarterback coach 88) when Trgovac was defensive Mosley. "There are high expec­
The Blue-Gold game tomor­"I think the players reaction replacing Vaas. line coach at Ball State. Trgovac tations for the athletes as well row afternoon will be new to the new coaches has been by Wessel was a volunteer assis­is one of several of the new as the coaches and it's impor­ground for a very special, group and large very positive," said tant on the coaching staff last coaches who bring gridiron tant to always be striving for of people. Holtz. year, but was chosen as defen­experience of its own their new excellence." 
The scrimmage will mark the Minter, former Ball State as­sive end coach for the 1992 role. Trgovac played starting Clements was the starting debut of the new and improved sistant head coach and defen­campaign. Another promotion middle guard on defense for quarterback for three straight Irish coaching staff wh~ch in­sive coordinator, will replace was given to Ron Cooper. Michigan for three years under years including the undefeated cludes more new faces than Darnell as defensive coordinator Cooper, who has been the Irish Bo Schembechler. He was an 1973 national championship familiar ones. Gone are Gary and Hayes as the linebacker secondary coach for the last two all-Big Ten choice for two years season. He started a record 34 Darnell, Dick Bumpas, Jay coach. Former Colorado State years, was given the job of and second-team All-American straight games leading the Irish Hayes, Peter Vaas, and Tom defensive line coach, Trgovac assistant head coach. Cooper for his senior year. to a combined record of 29-5. Beck. In their place a11e Rick will take Bumpas' place as de­will be the second in charge New running back coach Being on the sidelines has been Minter, Mike Trgovac, Earle fensive line coach. after Irish head coach Lou Earle Mosley has spent the last a new experience for Clements. Mosley, Tom Clements, and Joe Mosley, an assistant at Holtz. four seasons at the position of "It is different because as a Wessel. Temple, will take Beck's spot as Minter has a knack for devel­assistant coach at Temple, but player you prepare and then 
"I think it (the changes in the running back coach. Beck left oping first-rate defenses. In his new job has posed a special execute. As a coach, you can't coaching staff) will W<!lrk out after his first year at Notre 1991, his Ball State defense was challenge to Mosley. do that. You can only preparefine," said Clements. "We all get Dame to fill the offensive coor­ranked ninth in the nation in "Notre Dame is a special tyre your players to do things. The along really well together." dinator's position at Illinois. scoring defense with 13.4 points of place academically and ath­execution is not in your con­
In addition, the players have Former Notre Dame All-per game, 11th in total defense, letically. My biggest challenge so trol," said Clements. 
••• and what's best for the baseball Clements and see what he is Demetrius DuBose and Anthony 
Despite taking part in six of team." doing." Peterson to do the same at 
the 14 spring workouts, reserve Though Failla lhas spent the ••• linebacker . continued from page 4 quarterback Paul Failla will not majority of the spring with the Injuries will also keep defen­A quintet of walk-ons will defensive backfield, but was play in tomorrow's game be­baseball team, he feels that he sive tackles Todd Stoker and handle the kicking duties, while scheduled to switch back to cause of the baseball team's has made progress on the foot­John Taliaferro, linebacker Hentrich nurses his knee injury. tailback, where he began last doubleheader with Xavier. ball field. Brian Ratigan and kicker Craig Soccer player Kevin Pendergast, year, this spring. Failla, who is a center fielder "When I look back, I can tell Hentrich on the sidelines to­who kicked in the Sugar Bowl, 
and shortstop on the diamond, and Rob Leonard will kick for 
Out 
However, his absence has put that I've come a long way. I morrow afternoon, and offen­that move on hold. decided that he would be more have developed some sive lineman Justin Hall has the Gold. Handling the duties helpful to the baseball team at confidence and now have a missed the spring due to aca­for the Blue, Drew Marsh, who
At the moment Clark's role for next season has not been the moment. knowledge of the system," the demics. split time with Leonard in the' "Right now we are in the thick Sewickley, Penn. native These casualties will force
determined. He could return to last three regular-season 
tailback or remain, in the of things in baseball, and that is commented. "This spring I have Bryant Young and Brian games, Brent Boznanski and defensive backfield, at where I should be," Failla said. also gotten to know Hamilton into extensive playing Stefan Schroffner. cornerback. "I feel it is what's best for me (quarterbacks) Coach (Tom) time on the defensive line, and 

Friday, April 24, 1992
page 4 Blue & Gold '92 
Several familiar faces absent 
Clark, Dawson, Failla will not play for various reasons 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
summer." Holtz said. "They are Sports Editor not just going to be given a role on the team. They are going to 
When the Blue and Gold take have to earn their way back and the field tomorrow, the majority prove they are better than the of familiar faces will be people in front of them." amongst them. However, there He also believes that Wooden are some players who were ex­will be most effected by missing pected to make an impact in spring drills. 1992 that will not be taking part "As a freshman, you really in the annual spring game. need to go through spring 
1\vo positions where the Irish practice. By not doing so, it puts will be noticeably thin are wide you a year behind," Holtz receiver and defensive back. Brian Ratigan commented. 
At wide receiver, injuries have we can count on, and we've ••• kept William Pollard, a three­In the defensive backfield.
seen the talent and ability of 
time monogram winner, and LaShane Saddler and Willie
Mike Miller that we didn't see 
Shawn Wooden out of spring Clark have both missed all of
last year." 

practice, while Lake Dawson, spring practice, but each for
In addition to Johnson and 
who started in 11 games last different reasons.
Miller, Holtz has also been 
season, is attending classes in Saddlnr, who is still recover­
pleased with his more experi­
his home state of Washington ing from the reconstructive
enced receivers-Hay Griggs
" due to personal reasons. and Adrian Jarrell. knee surgery he underwnnt in Though their absences have December, saw time behind Hod
The trio of missing wideouts is 
caused some problems for the Smith at strong safety last sea­
not effecting Holtz's outlook of 
team, some good has resulted son and was one of the top
the receiving corps. He is op­
from it. candidates to fill the vacancy
timistic about the fall, which he 
"This spring has been good left by Smith at that position.
wants to enter with four to six 
for the younger guys and for the After running track over the
receivers that will be able to 
overall group (of receivers)," winter, Clark is sitting out the
contribute. 

receivers coach Skip Holtz spring to concentrate on aca­
When Dawson and Pollard 
explained. "A lot of people have demics. He started the last nine
return, they will not necessarily
had to step up. games of the 1991 season in the
be one of that group.

"Clint Johnson has improved 
"A lot depends on how much 
see OUT f page 3 
and has become a reliable guy 
they do on their own over the 
Notre Dame looks for answers at the line of scrimmage 
By JIM VOGL uncertain. Jones both fell to injuries during at Notre Dame. Trkovac, "I don't want Junior to Assistant Sports Editor But Moore expects senior the Air Force game, but have "I think he's a perfect nose­be complacent knowing he's Todd Norman to handle the returned as vitally important tackle. That's the position he's second-team; he's got a lot of 
As most football experts will guard position, with senior senior bookends this season. suited for. He can keep that talent," he said. tell you, the game is won or lost Jordan Halter and sophomore "They will be the mainstay of weight on and still retain his at the line of scrimmage. Ryan Leahy to battle for the va­the defensive line this year," quickness." Germaine Holden and John 
Undoubtably, Notre Dame's cancy at left tackle. newly appointed defensive line Beyond the big three, the Irish Taliaferro, who will miss to­winning tradition rests on a "Halter (the biggest of the coach Mike Trkovac stated are searching for some capable morrow's game due to a solid foundation of anonymous group. at six-foot-seven, 296 simply. backups. shoulder injury, hope to men in the trenches. The Irish pounds) still has a long way to The first team also includes "We've got to add some contribute in their sophomore shuttle enormous offensive and go. Leahy (brother of Irish junior Oliver Gibson at nose depth," said Trkovac. "We've years. Holden plays rush-end, defensive linemen to the pros baseball player Pat Leahy) tackle. Gibson beefed up 15 got to have some kids come while Taliaferro plays on the 
every year. shows promise but has an awful pounds to 255 and looks to fill along. We've got some guys in inside. lot to learn. Norman (who the void left two years ago by our program that can do that." As usual, the Irish boast an 
But perhaps most amazing is played at both tackle and guard the dominating Chris Zorich. abundance of talent at the line Notre Dame's ability to replace last season) missed a lot of At the top of the list is senior of scrimmage. Between the in­greatness with more of the spring." "(Gibson) works very hard at Junior Bryant, who started cumbents and those getting same, year after year. (nose tackle). He has a good eight games last season, but their first big chanee, this year's 
The Irish will lose center Gene While the Irish are noticeably attitude toward it," said Trkovac should serve as Young's backup offensive and defensive lines McGuire and guard Mirko stronger on the right, that still of Gibson, who played mostly at left tackle in 1992. hope to continue a tradition of Jurkovie, who are expected to won't determine which side of linebacker in his first two years But that's what concerns excellence under the dome. be early round picks in this the field the offense will favor. weekend's National Football "Coach (Lou) Holtz says which LIHLgue Draft and could lose way we're going to run. fifth-year guard Justin llall to Whatever play is called, they 
eligibility. better be strong at the play But alnmdy this spring, the called." said Moore. oiTensive line is shaping up with All-American and four-year .. a blHnd of experience and po­starter at tight end Derek tential. Brown will head into Sunday's 
The right side features two Nf'L Draft as a certain first­outstanding returnees, junior rounder. However, the Irish still guard Aaron Taylor and fifth­have confidence in this year's 
year senior tackle Lindsay tight end corps, starter lrv Knapp. Junior Tim Huddy will Smith and capable backup anchor the line at center. Oscar McBride. 
"Knapp, Taylor and Huddy are One weakness the offensive all set: tlwy're all much better line will have is depth. Besides play1~rs than last year at this the Balter-Leahy battle, the only time," said oll'ensive line coach other true backup will be senior .Joe Moore. center Lance Jonhson and 
"Hight now we'n~ developing possibly junior Mike McGlinn at a tradition of outstanding een­left tackle. tPrs." said Moore. "We lost Above all, Moore expects to Mike lleldt, who was a three­see the same offensive line year starter, then McGuire carne strength that Notre Dame's in and did a great job, and we tradition is built upon. 
Pxpeet the same thing from "We would like to think that Huddy. before the year is over, we'll be 
"lie's one of the brighter better than last year," he said, linemen in the classroom. "and I thought last year we had there's no question about that," the best offensive line in the explained Moore of Huddy, the country." mechanical engineering major ••• and strongest player on the Late last year. Notre Dame's 
.. tHam. defensive line, devastated by in­
"On the field, I don't know if jury and eligibility, was left un­h~~·s one of our brighter football characteristically undersized players. But he's a strong and inexperienced. They gave competitor on the field, out­opposing quarterbacks plenty of standing toughness." time to find a receiver, and Irish 
fans plenty to worry about. With the absence of Hall and Last year's prized defensive 

Jurkovic, the left side remains ends Bryant Young and Eric Fifth-year senior offensive lineman Lindsay Knapp, shown here in last season's 35-13 loss at Penn State, will be playing left tackle for the Gold in tomorrow afternoon's Blue-Gold game. Kickoff is scheduled for 1 :30 p.m. 
------~-------~------------~~----------~ 
"Friday, April 24,1992 The Observer page 17 

Classifie~ds 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.
NOTICES Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No flxperience necessary. Male or
05/15 
Female. For employment program WORD PROCESSING call Student Employment Services 256-6657 at 1-206-545-41 55 ext. 1597. 
$$ FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat WANTED:Pandora's Books ROOMMATE(S) FOR corner of ND ave & Howard SUMMER. NEED ROOMMATE reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday 
FOR OFF-CAMPUS SUBLET. CALL KEN X1385SUMMER TOURS TO EUROPE, 
l-----------------------------------------­
AUSTRALIA AND THE GREEK Female roommate needed for ISLANDS. 15-19 days. All f,villiamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. 
expenses paid including meals. 
Call 258-5702 $1395-$1798. Call Contiki Tours 
I 

1-800-950-1037 ISALES PERSON WANTED FORext. #2. 
FOOD VENDING CART ON THE !WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BETYPING AVAILABLE ,ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT
287-4082. 
!SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288­Typing 11454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900Pickup & Delivery NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS. 
277-7406 
JUNIOR CLASS BASH!!!! 
FOR RENT 
Come out to Holy Cross Field this Saturday PM (9-12) for bands by the lake with food, friends I BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY and fun! !I It's all free!! ,219-291-7153. 
2 Bedroom 


LOST/FOUND 
1 Walk to Campus $390 Month 232 3616 Found:tan J. Crew jacket Campus 
View 277-7179. ,-------------------­
RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5 Bedroom House for 92-93 NOW! 
1

LOST: Gold Claddagh ring with Safe Area, Private Parkingdiamond in middle. If found, I Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court, please call Susie at x2068. 
Semi-Furnished. Call 234-1886 
I -------------------­
Lost: thin gold bracelet New condo available mid-Maybetween North Dining Hall i thru mid-August. COMPLETELYand Knott or Knott and · furnished, incl­Grace-sentimental value­; uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2if found please call x4914. 
bedrooms, 2 baths. Walking distance to ND campus. 
LOST -gold ring with black stone 1 Call Kathleen -277­encircled by white rhinestones; lost 1709.
in restroom of North Dining Hall 1 OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENTEXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE NEW, SPACIOUS 2 BDRM, 28TH, please call Elizabeth x1918 WID, GARAGE, WALKING DIST. TO ND CAMPUS, NICE POOLLost: black fold-up umbrella, I CALL CAROLINE OR BILL AT 317­plain wooden handle, 
875-8890.

automatic mechanism. If found, please contact Suzanne 
SUMMER SUBLET at 271-0657. 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE LOSLSILVER CHAIN-LINK FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWOBRACLET Somewhere btwn. Frat BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE House,Bridget's,&main circle on the i HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO,Wed. before Easter(4/15). GREAT LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKINGsent. value! $$Anne X2580 
DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. CALL ERIC X1392 CALL BRYAN or BRENNANLOST LOST LOST LOST LOST !Ill! 
X1376 CALL KEN X1385
A Gold Claddaugh Ring. Somewhere between: PW and Keenan/Stanford 
and Spacious 4-5 bedroom home nearPW and Lafortune 
' Lafayette Square -Recently remodeled -New carpeting -2 carPlease, this ring has great garage. $600.00 per month. Callsentimental value. If you find it 1 277-4583 after 4:00p.m. 
please call X2873 and ask for Mary Jo. 
I 
MOVING TO CHICAGO?? ND'91 Graduate looking for female non-smoker roommate. IfWANTED ' interested, call Cynthia and leave a L-----------...J. message (708) 616-7818. 
Even though MR. BUSH is speaking Summer Sublet 
1 

at graduation, my aunt still wants to · Furnished 2 Bedroom come. Please help her out;Sell me a 272-9817
1 

graduation ticket. Call x4233 ' -------------------­Share 2Br house with M Grad Student. Laundry, Garage, Garden, 
MOVING TO LA? Porch, Air Cond. Avail May 1. $260
1 

I'm looking for roommates to live plus phone. 288-3878. near Manhattan Beach after graduation. ATIRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN CALL JULIE x1342 LOVELY OLD VICTORIAN BLDG. 
NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL 
2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL Summer Roommate needed RENTALS. Turtle Creek apartment Call x2891 2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, 
summer school. $200/mo. Use of all 
facilities. Close to campus, safe THE ASSOCIATES neighborhood. 232-2794. TEMPORARY POSITION: 
HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 MARKETING RESEARCH 4 5 6 BDRMS FULLY ANALYST-Proficient in Paradox, FURNISHED SECURITY Lotus and Multi Mate. Responsible SYSTEMS WASHERS/DRYERS 
1 

for developing and analyzing · 287-4989 statistical reports. Please call (219) 271-6342 to schedule an interview. TURTLE CREEK SUMMER 
SUBLET-PRICE NEG.; 
FURNISHED. 271-1399 ND PROFESSOR & GRAD. STUDENT NEED BABYSITIER FOR FALL FOR 2 CHILDREN, FALL SUBLET Modern 2bedrm apt 
2-1/2 YRS. & 6 MOS .. IN OUR I 2.5 mi from Dome. Fully furnished, HOME WHILE WE ARE WORKING fireplace,microwave,stereo. THERE. 10-20 HRS./WK. CALL I Partyrm, pool, tennis court. Avail 233-6901. $5/HR. 8/20-12/20 NO DEPOSIT $605/Mo 
277-8914 

Going to Chicago after graduation? I Staying for Summer? Looking for Me tool Looking for female non-smk, Turtle Creek roommate -Marcie roommate(s). Karen 2770 I 271-8571 SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG. NEAR N.D. WILL RENT INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT A DISCOUNTED RATE CALL2879624 
"Our Old House" Michigan Bed and Breakfast. 35 Mins. from Campus. (616) 435-5365. 
A riverfront sharp home and apartment for rent weekends or short terms. 219-257-9101/219­291-6100. 
4 Bedrm house for summer. Furnished, less than 1/2 mile from campus, safe neighborhd. Cheap rent! AGNES x2769 
Attention bisexual women (and other interested parties): Turtle Creek sublet available. Call Rian@ X1209 for details. 
Kicked off campus? Sexually harrassed by your roommate for the 1992-93 school year? Three (adjective) guys are looking for a Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris @ X1088 if you need us as much as we need you. We've been Phi lied! 

FOR SALE 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
STUDENTS AND PARENTS! SAVE on those housing costs. Buy this Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. Get a break on your taxes, and a return on your investment after graduation. Call Janet Knapp at RE/MAX 100 realty for more information. 219-255-5858 or 219­277-7402. 
ATIENTION: COUCH &MATCHING LOVESEAT, & RECLINER 4 SALE-MUST SEE­$150 271-9165 
AIR TIC (MALE). SB-SAN DIEGO, SUN, 5/10. CHEAP. 277-5891. 
NIKON N-2000 CAMERA WITH 50 MM 1.8 LENS AND 35-70 MM 200M LENS AND 636 AF VIVITAR FLASH. NEW CONDITION. $450.00 272-4375 EVENINGS. 
FURNITURE FOR SALE Beds, Couches and More CHEAP Call 277-3610 
airline ticket from SB to NWK (0/W) on 5/18 (Male). Call 288­9806. 
DOUBLE LOFT 
for sale call Monica x3765 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES ......... $200 86 VW ....................... $ 50 87 MERCEDES ......... $100 65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50 
Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals Giveaway Prices. 
801-379-2929 
Copyright #IN11 KJC. 
88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K mi! Hundreds below blue book! Jim W239-6064/H273-9059 
ALASKA JOBS $1000+/wk, room, board, airfare. Now hiring. (503) 754-6051 ext. 8. 
CD PLAYER w/remote, exc. condition x2385 
'79 Toyota Corolla ... Good Condition ...72,000 miles... $500 or best offer Call x3816 for more info 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS? full size mattress and box springs for sale-I can store them over summer for you. Call C.J. at 272-6189. 
LOFTS FOR SALE Call Shannon X4944 LOFTS FOR SALE 

TICKETS 
For Sale: 2EricCiaptonConcertTix Chicago;May 13 Ca11Ed@x1561 
Extended Catholic family from NJ. Need as many GRAD TIX as humanly possible. Call Teresa x2899 to haggle 
FOR SALE:One-way plane ticket to San Jose,CA for May 9th-CHEAP!!­call Samx4863 
FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. Jim x1558. 
Need 1 or2 grad tix. Let's make a deal. Ron 3315, leave message. 
AN OLDER GRADUATING DAD NEEDS 2 GRADIATION TICKETS FOR HIS KIDS. CALL JEFF AT 272 9602 AFTER 8:00pm 
PIRATES VS CUBS 4 TICKETS FOR SALE FOR SATURDAY(4/25). 
1ST BASE LINE. BEST OFFER! CALL: 234-4715 

[PERSONAL 
PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS Saturday, April 25, (Blue-Gold Game Day). at St. Joseph's High School. 
Help the parents keep the kids safe after the prom. Proceeds go to support the 
Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Call 272-3753 and leave message. Tickets can be delivered directly to you on campus. 
Help Me, Please 
I need graduation tickets if anyone has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any info. 
please, help me 

NEEDED: Graduation tickets ! ! ! ! for family, Please call Alice@ X4907 
Meg, 

• FRIENDS FOREVER* AND •LOVE YOU ALWAYS!• 
Love, Land M 
WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving doctor and his stay at home wife would like to discuss Baby's future with you. Please call us collect anytime. (219) 462-5250. Debra and Michael. 
Alicia .... 

Dear Monk, Patty and George: 
You and all other campus phobes and bigots are invited to my poetry reading (POEMS THE PRIESTS NEVER READ ME) on Sun. 26 April 
(7:30 p.m.) at Theodore's. I DARE YOU TO COME ... 
Sincerely yours in Christ, Sister Nutty Dame 
WANTED: A rational explanation for the termination of the ND wrestling program. Must be logical, coherent, TRUE and must not make the university look like a bunch of money-hungry idiots. If you can help us out, call Athletic Czar DICK Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1­800-GET-CLUE. 
P.S. What team is next on the list? 
KATELYN: Countdown has begun ... keep your eyes open for more to come! 
Moviong to Washington D.C.? 2 Domers ('90 and '91) looking for third roommate. May-Aug. Townhouse in Alexandria. Safe. Close to metro ride to Capital Hill in am $290/mo. 703-836-4193. 
COME SEE THE JUNIOR CLASS 
PLAY ONE O'CLOCK FROM THE HOUSE!!! Fri., April 24 & Sat., April 25 at 8:10P.M. & Sun., April26 at 2:10P.M. Hesburgh Lib. Aud. -Donations to St. Hedwig's welcome! 
U P S on CAMPUS 
We don't miss a day! Ship you:r stuff home now and relax during Finals Week. 
M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-2 
239-6714 at THE COUNTRY HARVESTER lower level LaFortune 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30pm. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m to 3 p.m at the Sa1nt Mary·s offiCe. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All class1f1eds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, 1ncluding all spaces 
For sale: Pair of 100 watt Sony speakers. Call x1563 
Top Ten Holy See Resolutions I 0. She came back-after what you did to her neck? 
9. The head of Security's been watching you neck in the lobby for half an hour, and he's bored. 
B. Delegate, the Lord Jesus Christ is out of order. 
7. Angus pees his kilt all the time ! 
6. Your money's no good here, Father. 
5. Conners is in Times Square, doing what with his money? 
4. Should I come down to the lobby? I can't feel my feet. 
3. Hi, Val. I can't decide whether to kiss you or slug you. 
2. Damn bed would've broken anyway. 
1. Someone's performed a miracle and turned my blood into alcohol! 
"When people are at their worst, that's when I do my best" 
-Joe Godin 
I am just a pirate, Slipping on my pop-tops, Blowing out my flip flops, Eating Cheeseburgers in paradise, Because I am Mr. Buffet Stryker, With my Belt Buckles and chocolate chips ... 
COMING SOON Allegro open 24 hours! 
Hey Hippo Butt (Pauli), Have a great birthday, but this time don't get arrested. 
Love, Your favorite sisters 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans' 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday!!! 
to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin 
ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS AHOMEANDOURHOMENEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317) 364-0300 for more information. 
ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect. at 219­322-8187. 
I am a worm, slowly and surely sinking deeper into the bowels of the earth, putting more desolation between me and the universe 
AnTostal OFTC Friday Events: 4:30pm Tricycle Race Fieldhouse Mall) 2:30pm Mattress Drag (flag 
pole on South quad) 
Saturday: 10 am Road Rally (Sr. Bar parking lot) I pm Chariot Races (meet at fieldhouse and go to white field north) FINALE Tug of War at 1 pm! 
THE SURREAL MCCOYS 3 chords, liquor, and a bad idea. 
FRIDAY, THE CLUB 

with BRIAN, COLIN AND VINCE 
p.s. they're not wearing pants 
JASMINE GROOVE @ THE CAP 'N CORK Fri. and Sat., April 24 & 25 Music starts at 10 PM Corner of Lasalle and Niles' 
NEED: ld. or rhyth. GUITARIST summer &/or next year for the Metha-tones. call 271-0742 or 288-4859 
SHAGGY/ HOBBES . Worship me forever. Olive Oyl told me to do it. :) 
Happy 19th, Maura' 
I hope you have a great weekend' 
And stay sober (like I'm serious ...as if') 
Love, roomie 
Hey Michael, I love you II ·Renee 
Erin=toilet 
Take time to smell the roses' Apply for a position at Irish Gardens today! Applications available at the store, due Wed. 4/29 
CONGRATULATIONS 
ANITA 
ON PMEGS llll!!!!!llll!llllllll!!l!llfl!!!l!llll!lll!l!ll!l!!llfll !!!!!! 
EG !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!'!!!'!!!!'!! This is subtle 
What's getting rosenthalled next at apathetic u ?.. 
If Hems doesn't shut up, the karaoke machine will also get shoved up his asteroids. 
Happy Wednesday cleanings. 
SENIORS Going to grad school at UT@ Austin next year? I'm looking for a roommate. Interested -call Jack x3636 
..14 kegs= 100 cases·· Pangborn Open House Party Saturday 
H, Around the world in 4 floors!! Let's not say anything stupid, even though you know everything's gonna come out on Saturday night. That's 
o.k... We'll just shoot ·em when 
were finished with 'em. M 
P.S. Why can't they be like 'Iii bra? 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY JANE FROM SAINT MARY'S 
Neh....Neh .... NEH NEHNEHNEH 
PLEEZ! I NEED A RIDE TO 
CINNECTICYUT AFTER FINALS. 
VERY UTILE LUGGAGE. 
TOM 287-1680 
Welcome to the home of the Irish. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BARBRA' 
LOVE, CRIS & KYLE 
Peggy, 
How about An Toastal? I think the three legged race has a new entrant! I'll see you there! 
LOVE, 
Bryan 
COME SEE 
THE TREES 
@BRIDGET'S---SATURDAY NO COVER UNTIL 11 PM!!!! 
GOOD LUCK GUYS ----CHERRY PIE 


ST. EDWARD'S
-=-· ·······~­
RAGHIB "ROCKET" ISMAil. 
\rfAii.S II,.. "MY LIFE SJJ\('Jo: 
I LEFT NOTRE D\\IE" 
Mmulo1~. AJH"il 27 

-
7:11111'.M. 

-------------------------~---­
page 18 
The Observer 
Friday, April 24,1992 

MLB STANDINGS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

TRANSACTIONS 
Baltimore 002 402 000-8 1 2 0 
Book

AMERICAN LEAGUE Kansas CltyOOO 001 000-1 6 1 
... 
-
... 
-
Eut Dlvlalon  
w  l  Pet  GB  
Toronto  13  4  .765  
Balt1more  10  5  .667  2  
NewYoll<  10  5  .667  2  
Boa ton  6  7  .462  5  
M1lwaul<ee  6  7  .462  5  
Cleveland  6  11  .353  7  
DetrOit  5  "  .313  7 112  
Weal  Dlvlalon  
w  l  Pet  GB  
Oakl<~nd  It  5  .688  
Chicago  8  6  .57t  2  
Tex•  9  7  .563  2  
Calilorn~a  8  7  .533  2 t12  
Seanle  8  9  .471  3 112  
Mtnnesota  6  9  .400  4 112  
Kar&a5 City  t4  .067  9 tl2  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
Eut Dlvlalon  
w  l  Pet  GB  
Pmsburgh  12  3  .800  
N-Yoll<  g  7  .563  3 112  
Montreal  7  9  438  5 112  
Ch1cago  6  8  429  5112  
St. Lou10  6  9  .400  6  
Ph1ladelph1a  6  10  .375  6 112  
Wut Dlvlalon  
w  L  Pet  GB  
Houston  9  6  .600  
San D1ego  9  7  .563  t/2  
San Franc•co  8  7  .533  1  
C1ncinna1i  8  8  .500  1 112  
Los Angelea  7  9  .438  2 112  
Atlanta  6  10  .375  3 112  
z-denotes 11~1 game was a w1n.  
AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Wedneedey'a  Gemn  
Oakland 10. Callorn1a 4  
Boston at Mwwaul<ee. ppd .. colo  
Cleveland 7. Toronto 2  
Ban1rrore 2. Kansas Cny 1  
N-York 4, Ch1cago 3  
DetrOit 12. Texas 9  
Minnesota 8. Seanle 1  
Thuradey·a  Gam..  
leta Game  Not Included  
Milwaukee 3. Boston 2  
Seanle 3. Minnesota 2  
Toronto 13. Cleveland 8  
Ban1rrore 8. Kansas Cny I  
Detron at T exaa (n)  
Only gamee scheduled  
Friday'a  Gemea  

Ban1more (M1iack1 t-I 1 at New Yo II< (Cadaret 1 · 0). 7:30p.m. Texas (Js.Guzman 1·1) at Boston (Vola 0-2). 7:35p.m. Kansas Cny (Gordon 0· IJ at Toronto (Ju.Guzman 2-0). 7:35p.m. M1lwaukee (Piesac I· I) at Cleveland (Armstrong 0·2). 7:35p.m. Ch1cago (McDowell 3-01 at Detro1t (T.,rell 0-21. 7:35p.m. Oakland (Darlmg t-0) at M1nneso1a (Smiley 0-2). 805 p.m. Seanle (Fiem1ng 1-1) at Cal~orma (Abboll 1·1). t0:35 p.m. 

ltD Streak z-7-3 Woo 1  Home 8·2  Away 5·2  
8-2 Woo 7  6-1  4-4  
z-5-5 Woo 2  4-2  6-3  
5-5 Lost 1  3-3  3-4  
z-5-5 Woo 1  3-5  3-2  
z-4-6 Loot 1  2-5  4·6  
Z·f>-5 Woo 2  0-6  5-5  
ltD Streak z-6-4 Woo 1  Home 7-2  Away 4-3  
5-5 Loot 2  4-4  4-2  
z-4-6 Loot 2  3-6  6-t  
z-7-3 Lost 1  2·4  6-3  
5-5 Woo  5-6  3-3  
3-7 Lost  1-4  5-5  
1-9 Lost  t-8  0-6  
ltD Streak z-9-t Lost  Home 7-1  Away 5-2  
7-3 Woo 4  5-4  4-3  
z-3-7 Woo  3·7  4-2  
z-5-5 Lost 1  4-3  2-5  
3-7 Lost 3  3-3  3-6  
z-3-7 Woo  3·3  3-7  
LID Streak 7-3 Woo 1  Home 9·6  Awey 0·0  
z-5-5 Woo 2  5-2  4-5  
5-5 Lost 1  4-2  4-5  
Z-6-4 Woo 2  4-2  4-6  
5-5 Lost 2  5-4  2-5  
2-8 Lost 2  2-2  4-8  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  
Wedneadey·e  Gemea  

Chicago 9. Philadelphia 5 San Diego 9. Atlanta 4 Pinaburgh 2. Montreal 0 N-Yotl< 3, St. Louis 2 Houaton 3. San Francisco 1. t2 Innings Cincinnati 4, Loa Angeles 3 
Thuraday'a Gamu Montreal 6, Pinsburgh 3 N-York 1. St. Louis 0. 13 inmngs Philadelphia 8. Chicago 2 Only gamee scheduled 

Friday·• Gemea Pinsburgh (Palacios 1-0) at Chicago (Jackson 0­3), 2:20p.m. N-York (Young 2-0) at Philadelphia (Cox I· I). 7:35p.m. Houstoo (Kile 1·1) at Atlanta (Smonz 1·1). 7:40 
p.m. Montreal (Nabholz 1-1) at St. LOUIS (Olivares I· 2). 8:35p.m. Cincinnati (Belcher 1 -2) at San Diego (Harris 0­1), 10:35 p.m. Los Angeles (Hen;hiSer 1·1) at San Francisco (Wilson 1-0), 10:35 p.m. Saturday's Games Pmsburgh at ChiCago. 4:05p.m. Los Angeles at San Francisco. 4:05p.m. New Yori< at Philadelphia. 7:05p.m. Houston at Atlanta. 7:10p.m. Montreal at St. LOUIS. 8:05p.m. C1nc1nnau at San D10go. 10:05 p.m. 
,. ---BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ­
I BUY at INVOICE*
I 
College Graduates 
I NO &SMC 
$500 Rebate•• 

~ 
l•lllll'l!ilS 

Hyun~~ 
_ 

;a· -fltl 
-; I any new FORD or HYUNDAI ····"·'I 
l=or Details contact: BASN E Y F 0 R D 1 ..I.AARK HOUSER ~I H-;:R• 1 Phone 291-6910
r"· ~ J2o EAsT IRELAND ROAD I Sales Representative SOUTH BEND. IN 46680 I 
I "Rebate to deder; Plus 1(]1(, doc.. litte and IQI;JS. ""Ford vehicles only. 
----BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ---­
WHITE 
~E...... 
C.A........T 
.Jl..J~P 
WESLEY SNIPES WOODY HARRELSON @ 

MICHAEL DOUGlAS 





BASIC~~~~~~~ 
., 
I I I I I 
I 

STEP KING'S 

SLEE~)LKERS
Dally 5:30 7:30 9:45 SaliSun 1:30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:45 
(I•• ;J 
Dally 4:45 7:15 9:45 SaliSun 2:00 4:45 7:15 9:45 · Mussina and Hoilea; M.Davis, Heaton (3), Boddicker (4), Young (7). Montgomery (9) and Melvin. W-Musslna. 2-0. L-M.Davis. 0-2. HR­

Baltimore, Anderson ( 1 ). 

Detroit 512 000 300-11 15 o Texas 230 000 000-5 10 2 
Tanana. Lancaster (2). Doherty (6) and Kreuter· Brown. Bannister (6), Mathews (6) and Rodrigue;, Davm (9). W-lancaater, 1-1. L-Brown. 3-1. Sv­Doherty (t). HR-Detrolt, Cuyler (!).Booton 
020 000 000-2 7 I Milwaukee 003 000 OOx-3 7 0 Clemens and Pena; Wegman. Onosco (8), Henry 
(8) and SurhoH. W-Wegman. 2-1. L-Ciemens. 2­2. Sv-Henry (2). 
Minnesota 100 010 000-2 6 0 Seanle 000 001 20x-3 7 1 
Erickson, Guthrie (7) and Harper; Swan. Nelson (8). Schooler (9) and Sinatra, Valle (8). W-Swan. 2-2. L-Erickson. 0-2. Sv-Schooler (4). HR­Seanie, Buhner (I). 
Cleveland 300 100 400-8 14 o Toronto 043 240 OOx-13 15 1 
Ono. E.Bell (2). Arnsberg (4), Nichols (6), Lilliquist (7). Olin (8) and Ortiz; Slott Iemyre. Hentgen (7). D.Ward (8), Henke (9) and Borden;. W­Stonlemyre. 2-1. L--Ono, 1-2. HAs-Cleveland. Belle (4); Toronto, WMe (1 ). Cart"' (2). Gruber 2 (3). 
Baltimore 002 402 000-8 1 2 o Kansas City 000 001 000-1 6 1 
Mu~sina and Holies; M.Davis, Heaton (3), BoddiCker (4), Young (7). Montgomery (9) and Melvin. W-Musslna, 2-0. L-M.Davis. 0-2. HR­Banimore. Anderson (I). 
Detroit 5t2 000 300-11 15 0 Texas 230 000 000-5 10 2 
Tanana. L~ncaster (2). Doherty (6) and Kreuter; Brown, Bannister (6). Mathews (6) and Rodriguez Davis (9). W-Lancaster. 1-1. L-Brown. 3-1. Sv_:_ Doherty (1). HR-Detroit. Cuyler (I). 
NATIONAL LEAGUE Pittsburgh 000 000 102-3 5 Montreal 200 013 OOx-8 10 0 
Smith. Larrp (6), Gleaton (7) and LaValliere. Slaugh! (7); Gardner. Wetteland (9) and Carter. W-Gardner, 2-1. L-Smith. 3-1. Sv-Wetteland 
(3). 

Philadelphia 200 201 201-8 I I I Chicago 200 000 000-2 3 1 
Greene, Schilling (8) and Daulton; Castillo. Da.Smith (7). Slocumb(). McElroy (9) and Villanueva. W-{ireene, 2-1. L-Castillo, 0-1. HR­Philadelphia. Batiste (I). 
St. LouisOOO 000 000 000 0---0 8 o New YorkOOO 000 000 000 1-1 6 1 (1 3 innings) 
Osborne, Perez (8), Worrell( tO), Carpenter (1 I), Agosto (12) and Gedman, Pagnozzl (10); Saberhagen, Gibson (10). Innis (10). Franco (12) and Hundley. W-Franco. 2-0. L-Agoslo, 0·2. 
BASEBALL American league MINNESOTA TWINS-Placed Mike Pagliarulo. third baseman. on the 1 5-day disabled list. Activated Kent Hrbek, first baseman. from the dis­abled list. Netlonal league MONTREAL EXPOS-Assigned Miguel Batista. pitcher. to Indianapolis ol the American Association. PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Activated Don Slaugh!, catcher. from the disabled list. Returned Rule Five draft selection Miguel Batista to the Montreal Expoa. International League COLUMBUS CLIPPERS-Purchased the contract of Scott Holcomb, pitcher. from Albany ol the Eastern League. Eastern League ALBANY YANKEES-Announced that Kirt Ojala. pitcher. was assigned to Albany from extended spring training. BASKETBALL National B..ketball Aaeoclatlon DENVER NUGGETS-Fired Paul Westhead. coach. MILWAUKEE BUCKS-Announced Frank Hamblen will not return as coach for the 1992-93 season and will remain with the club in basketball operatkms. PHOENIX SUNS-Announced Cotton Fitzsimmons will relinquish his duties as coach to serve as director of player personal. effective at the end of the playoffs. Named Paul Westphal coach. effective at the end of the playoffs. United Statea Baaketball league MIAMI TROPICS-Signed Richard Dumas. tor­ward. TAMPA BAY SUNBLASTERS-Signed Torgeir Bryn, forward, and Todd Merrill. forward. FOOTBALL National Football League NFL-Named New England Patriots Ch1el Executive Officer Sam Jankovich chairman of the NFL college relations committee. WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Announced the re­tirement ol Russ Grimm. offensive lineman. and named him assistant tight ends coach. Canadian Football League OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed John Kropke. defensive tackle. World league 
MONTREAL MACHINE-S1gned Gene Cullinane. center. Released Steve Williams. wide receiver. OHIO GLORY-Released Darryl Gard. running back. SAN ANTONIO RIDERS-S1gned Kip Texada. 
cornerback. HOCKEY National Hockey league MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Signed Jell Levy. goaltender. TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Named Terry Crisp coach. HORSE RACING LOUISIANA RACING COIMMISSION-Fired Claude Williams. executive director. 
COLLEGE. 

CHAPMAN-Named M1ke Bokosky men's basket· ball coach. DEPAUW-Named Bill Fenlon men·s baseklball 
coach. 
continued from page 28 

(Wednesday) and told them about it." 
"The rain made the game more fun," added Donahue. "even though it hampered our game because we are more of a passing team, not a board bangin' team." 
The most one-sided game of the afternoon was between McCormick's and L-Train. This game was characterized by the controversial play of the Trainor twins who are widely known for their gritty play that borders on violent. In the end, McCormick's came out with an easy 21-7 win. 
The final game of the after­noon started out close but Malicious Prosecution was too strong for Pale Riders. The Curoe brothers scored five apiece while Rich Howling chipped in six to lead Malicious to a 21-12 win. 
In a Bookstore article run earlier, I had reported that Ebony Side Of The Dome was sponsored by Adworks. I was told this by the Bookstore commissioners. However. this is far from the truth. Ebony is sponsored by Black Alumni Of Notre Dame (BAND). The Observer and I regret any misunderstandings regarding Ebony's sponsorship. 

Friday, April 24 
Miami at Chicago. 8 p.m. 
Detroit at New Yori<, 8 p.m. 
LA Clippen; at Utah, 10:30 p.m. 
San Antonio at Phoenix. 10:30 p.m. 
Saturday, April 25 
Indiana at Boston. 1 p.m. 
LA Laken; at Portland, 3:30p.m. 
Seanle at Golden Slate, 6 p.m. 
New Jersey at Cleveland. 8:30p.m. 

~-----­
Graduate into your own car. 
Speuat ieatel '?tYt a-LiHtaed 7U~te tJ4! 

8.65o/o :PR 
Maximum Term -60 months 
We'll even give you deferred payments until August 15, 1992 
(please bring an offer letter from your future employer and your acceptance letter). 
To help with your relocation, we also have: MasterCard 14.92%* APR $1 0 annual fee 
* Rates subject to change without notice. Members must meet qualifications. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent of the University 








Dame 

Searching for Father Malloy, or the Colloquy 2000? 
By JOE MOODY 
Viewpoint Editor 
Where's Monk? , 
After being assigned to organize the final installment of The Observer's coverage of Notre Dame's 150 years of history, I asked the same thing. 
The reason was that I wanted not only to show where Notre Dame has come recently, but where o4r leaders are taking us into the year 2000. 
In an attempt to do' this, I hand­delivered Father Malloy's secretary a letter requesting Father to possibly write a column on where he perceives Notre Dame going into the 21st century. 
A few afternoons later, I was telephoned by Father Malloy's assistant. 
He explained to me that Father would not write such a column because he has already established a committee to deal with Notre Dame's future known as the "Colloquy 2000." 
"All right," I replied, trying to understand. 
Then another idea came to me. I asked Monk's assistant, "Where can I obtain some sort of published summery of the 
1980s Pop Culture and Notre Dame 

By JOE MOODY 
Viewpoint Editor 
Campus life took a Re~ganomic twist through the 1980s. · 
Conservatism was viogue, as was materialism. So was cel~brated apathy, as displayed at I the pseudo demonstrations and sit-iijs that occurred in an effort to bring "Cap'n Crunch" cereal to Notre Dame. 
A business major was t(ze thing to be. 
It was a generation tJeing raised on Pac-Man: a perfect symbol for over­consumption in a technolbgical era. 
The "New Mother Nature" that took over one generation became Apples, IBMs and Commodores for our genera­tion. 
And the same children' that grew up in the video arcades went on to college only to stare into another video screen, a Macintosh, typing their papers on "Microsoft Word 4.0." 
Macintoshes literally invaded campus life. And the invasion goes onward with another new computer lab scheduled to open this Fall in the DeBartolo Quad. 
LaFortune was renovated in the 80s and became a "real student center" as other buildings seemingly sprouted up under the University's continuing construction campaign. 
It is not uncommon these days for a Notre Dame student to walk by one of the several new buildings under construction and not even realize what the building is being built for. 
Father Edward "Monk" Malloy took over as President and Lou Holtz took the helm as Head Football Coach. Alongside these new leaders were other typical 80s "role models" such as Oliver North, Don Johnson and Eddie Murphy. 
Across college campuses including Notre Dame, the ideal was no longer "higher consciousness" but higher con­sumption. 
Our choices in the 80s were simple: 
Colloquy 2000's goals for the future? He informed me that he didn't think such a thing existed. 
"O.K..."I said, now growing nervous that I would have nothing to print regarding our leader's plan for Notre Dame's future. 
Then it struck me. If I can't get Monk to write, maybe I can go a step below him and ask the Chair of the now mysterious Colloquy 2000 to write the column. 
"Who is the Chair of the Colloquy?" I suddenly asked Father Malloy's assistant. "Maybe I'll just ask him to 
Our enemies were clearly defined: The "Commies." And our goals were solidly established: Get rich. 
These values affected Notre Dame life in the past decade like they did the nation. 
write a column on his views for the University's future." "Father Malloy is the Chair," he told me. "Oh...Well, thank you anyway, sir," I 
replied. 
"Thank you," said Monk's assistant. 
I didn't find Monk. But I did find out that the Colloquy 2000 has subcommittees doing interviews with a random sampling of students. 
Also, students can obtain information from dorm rectors about becoming involved in the future of the University through the Colloquy 2000. 
an uncertain 90s, Notre Dame grasps for a future based on strengthening graduate programs, increased emphasis on research, confronting issues of cultural diversity and attempting to maintain a threatened Catholic character. 

Friday, April 24, 1992

page 2 150 YEARS of Notre Dame 



DART •• 
NO's 'New Lingo' for registering 
By JOHN ROCK 
Managing Editor 
Looking for Monk? 
I ran into him at the first meeting of the Colloquy 2000. lie asked me if I had "DAHTed" yet, paused and jokingly said "That's kind of a new word around here, DAHT. It can be used as a noun and a verb. "Notre Dame's current system for registration. DAHT (Direct Access Hegistration by Telephone), came on-line October :~0. 1989 for students to "DART" for the spring semester 
After months of research, University officials decided to take the mid-priced option. The hardware and software cost approximately seventy thousand dollars, according to Andy Hollander. the man responsible for bringing DART to Notre Dame. 
DART was implemented to fix many of the problems that surrounded selecting classes. The old system for registering was deemed unfair and inconvenient by many. Students used to be prioritized by year and major, but department heads ultimately decided "who got what," according to former Registrar Daniel Winicur in a December, 1990 Observer interview. 
Winicur also noted that women could be excluded if department chairs didn't like women and that sophomore and juniors were easily excluded from classes under the old system. 
Only at the beginning of each semester, when students got their schedules, would they find out what they did or did not get. Many students ended up scrambling around to find classes at the start of each semester, said Assistant Hegistrar Don Steinke. 
One of the major benefits of DART is that it lets students know immediately what class they have enrolled in. DART also eliminates much standing in line and allows students to register wherever they want, Steinke said. 
"Many universities have systems similar to ours. BYU (Brigham Young), Duke just started one, (and) Ohio State... " Steinke said. Many of these schools have open lines, whereas DART has fifteen minute appointment times during which students can register, he said. DAHT does however, have an open line from 7 p.m. to midnight when anyone whose appointment time has passed can access the computer. 
The University's computer assigns DART appointment times to students when they do not 1) touchtone phone signals 2) or terminals located in
have scheduled classes. Access 
converted by IBM compatible Registrar's office which times are mailed to 
computer. Mainframe releys connects directly to mainframe the students, along 
information to translator which 
with where they 
cues DART voice messages.
can obtain their PINs (Personal
I d en t i fica t i o nr-----------------------------_j 
Numbers). Individual colleges 
,.. ..,

are responsible for the distribution o 
WELCOME PINs, and most 
Connects to elect to combine 
TO DART 

... ...,j PIN distribution with academic counseling. 


When receives a phone 

Relays Info Back call on one of its 18 lines, the caller and 

the University's University's Hewlett-Packard Hewlett-Packard
mainframe are~----------------------------M~a~in~f~ra~m~e~________j 
linked by a special program run off of an IBM compatible computer. When a caller enters data by phone, the DART software interprets touch-tone phone signals into computer signals and relays it to the Hewlett-Packard. 
The mainframe then sends data back to the translating computer, which activates certain voice responses to let the caller know what to do or what classes he or she has enrolled in. 
Students have the option to use the phone lines or the terminals in the Hegistrar's office. 
"The terminals were originally a disaster recovery plan in case the phone lines went down, but there is no advantage of the terminals over the phones, it's just a matter of preference," Hollander said. "The system is as robust as anything," he added. 
The voice heard by callers is that of a real human being, he said. 
"The voice belongs to someone in Seattle, Wash. It came with the system, but there are a few messages in different voices. Those are Don Steinke and myself," he said . 
According to Hollander, the voices are 

The Observer/E. G. Bailey One of the most consistent issues both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have been involved in over the past years is that of abortion. There are Pro-Choice and Pro­Life groups representing both Universities. Pictured here is Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life taking their efforts off campus into the South Bend rain. 


~~----c_on_n_e_c_ts_t_o___~ 

18 Available Phone Lines 
HOW DART WORKS 
Student links to mainframe through: 
D 

Translates Touchtones and Computer Signals 



taken in through a microphone, 
digitalized and stored on the hard disk of the translating computer. After receiving a prompt, the translating computer plays the corresponding voice messages to the caller. 
DART is capable of processing twenty to twenty-five students per fifteen minute appointment time, he said. 
While DART has eliminated long lines everywhere except the English department, it has brought with it new problems, as well as some other possibilities. 
Due to possible scheduling conflicts, athletes generally receive earlier DART times so they can get classes that do not interfere with practice, Winicur said in a November, 1989 Observer interview. 
DAHT can impose strict limits on who can or cannot get into certain classes. Departments can set up courses to be "Registration by Permission," requiring students to get authorization numbers from the professor's department before DART will allow them into the classes. 
DART can also automatically exclude any group of students from a course. 
The Observer/Ann-Marie Conrado 

Such a course would be listed as "Seniors Only" or "Majors Only" in the Course Selection booklet. 
While these restrictions help departments regulate the students who take their classes, they also restrict student choices outside of their own major. Students don't have the options they once had, limiting the ability to explore offerings in different departments, especially after they have declared a major. 
DART also calculates the number of credits the student is registered for and will not allow students to carry more than the set amount allowed by individ­ual departments, so students must get departmental permission to overload. 
The DART system has other potential uses, said Hollander. It could be used as a information line which people could call and request anything from weather reports to ticket information. The current phone system may not yet be capable of handling this, he said. 
DART has solved many of the problems that it was intended too, but "DART is just the messenger and not the problem," Steinke said. 
Rebels with a dry cause fought alcohol policy 
By JOE MOODY 
Viewpoint Editor 
In September of 1984, Notre Dame's Administration announced that Dillon Hall's "Screw Your Roommate/Booze Cruize" would be cancelled. 
This was done "in keeping in spirit with the new policy." The "new policy" referred to Notre Dame's then-new alcohol policy. 
"Eliminating or severely restricting the use of alcohol is a serious possibility," Father William Beauchamp forewarned students in an Observer interview from November of 1983. 
The policy came as a result of the University Commission on the Responsible Use of Alcohol. The commission wrote 7 50 letters to parents and sent out faculty questionnaires to discern their opinions. 
The Indianapolis Council on Alcoholism promptly gave the University an award and other colleges consulted ND for advice to mimic the new policy. 
Students, as usual, were concerned about the lack input they were given in the formulation of the policy but were informed that they would "know before they go home for the summer" if changes would occur. 
Changes did occur. 
Notre Dame's social life moved largely off-campus and liquor-law violations in­creased. Beer ads vanished from The Observer. Dormitory drinking continued but now behind closed doors. 
And while a small band of students chanted for the University to "divest" Notre Dame's corporate investments in Apartheid-stricken South Africa, the Main Building was overrun with a mass of students angered at an administration that was restricting the use of their beloved brew. 
Alcohol protests drew thousands. The new, tightened policies on campus consumption rallied the student-body like a stampede of alcoholic elephants. 
"A wet campus is a happy campus," was the motto of the resistance. 
The policy is still in effect. 
Friday, April 24, 1992 150 YEARS af Notre Dame page 3 
By DAVID KINNEY 
News Editor 

Warner suggested that the situation was the result of the University's failure to address the particular needs and concerns of minority students when it set itself upon the goal of increasing minority numbers. 
"People in the administration were aware that we were mov­ing ahead very quickly with the question of increasing minority enrollment among the under­graduate students," he said, "and I think we were aware of the fact that our infrastructure didn't always accompany the difficulties that we were going to experience." 
Malloy agreed in the after­math of the sit-in. "I and others in leadership roles in the University have made mistakes, acted too slowly, presumed too much." 
What SUFR's activities ac­complished was to bring multi­cultural issues back into the limelight. 
"While it was a difficult mo­ment," Warner said, "it was an important moment for Notre Dame." 
\ )inauguration), there's "-""""' been progress," said Mari Fuentes, --.....~·assistant director of minority student affairs. "But progress works really slowly 
· around here." 
"We're finally 
oming to a place 
re the students 
e buying into the 
otion that there 
ally aren't that 
any differences, 
more similarities 
een us," she 
In the wake of the 
sit-in, Malloy issued 
an open letter to the 
cmhmunity discussing 
is concerns about 

at Notre Dame and explaining how the University could overcome these difficulties. 
Malloy described Notre Dame as a university in transition. "Amidst all these changes Notre Dame has remained faithful to its fundamental mission to be a Catholic university," he said. "Now we are faced again with the challenge of change and are called to a renewed commitment to do the right thing for the proper reason." 
Through the work of the task force, he said dialogue on the issue of cultural diversity could continue across various chan­nels of the University. "There are important values at stake, and people of goodwill can dis­agree on how to proceed." 
Throughout the past year, members of the task force have met together and in three smaller committees to develop a blueprint to increase cultural diversity at Notre Dame, according to Warner, co-chair of the task force. 
The task force must file a re­port and action plan to the president by May. 
"We want to be honest and admit that ... there really is a lot of vision here on the part of Malloy," Warner said, "but on the other hand we also want to acknowledge those areas where we have to really take more significant actions if we are going to achieve those goals." 
These areas include increas­ing the number of minority fac­ulty and staff and paying more attention to the issues of multi­culturalism in the curriculum and in residence life, according to Smith, co-chair of the task force. 
One need is a mechanism to continually infuse awareness of multi-cultural issues in the con­sciousness of an ever-changing body of students, faculty, staff and administration, he added. 
The work of the task force "will set us on a good course, a solid course," he said. "The overall context is forward­thinking and optimistic, but it's going to take time if we're going to make real change." 
Warner said that the action plan will be a document to sin­gle out areas where progress can be made and to make rec­ommendations about how changes can be implemented. He stressed that these goals should be realizable, rather than hopes without foundation. 
Fuentes agreed. "We're in a golden situation to use this op­portunity to everyone's advan­tage." 

page 4 150 YEARS of Notre Dame Friday, April 24, 1992 

Holtz reflects on ND Football 
with two losses, it made its first the best in the nation. 
Bv MIKE SCRUDATO New Year's Day bowl "I felt we had a strong 
Sports Editor appearance since 1980, when backfield, and with Tony Rice 
Georgia topped the Dan Devine (at quarterback) we could do 
When Lou Holtz took over as coached Irish, 17-10 in the things that didn't necessitate a 
Notre Dame's football coach on Sugar Bowl. strong offensive line, such as 
November 27, 1985, he Notre Dame faced 15th­running the option." 
inherited a program that was ranked Texas A&M, the To make up for some of the 
filled with history and tradition, Southwest Conference team's weaknesses, Holtz was 
but had not finished in the Top champions, in the 52nd Cotton forced to give two freshmen, 
20 since 1980. Bowl Classic. who would go on to have 
Despite his previous collegiate The Irish took the opening tremendous collegiate careers, success, he was not expecting kickoff and drove 59 yards in significant roles in the offense­the results he has gotten from seven plays and took an early 7-tight end Derek Brown and the Irish over the past six 0 lead when Heisman Trophy wide receiver "Rocket" Ismail. seasons, in which they have winner Tim Brown hauled in a "Whenever a freshman makes compiled a 56-17 record. 17 -yard pass from quarterback a contribution it is because an 
"When I came here, people Terry Andrysiak, who was upperclassman allows him to do were saying that Notre Dame playing for the first time since so," Holtz said. "Carpenter and could not be competitive any breaking his collarbone in Martin leaving gave 'Rocket' a longer. The schedule was too October. chance at wide receiver, and 
tough, the academics were too Looking back at the Cotton Frank Jacobs was our only tight difficult and they couldn't Bowl, Holtz feels that the team end. attract the good student was not in the right frame of Brown and Ismail each athlete," Holtz commented. mind to win the game. responded to the call. Brown 
"But, when I was hired my "Everyone was content with started five games, including mandate was not to win the just getting there," the sixth­the Fiesta Bowl, while Ismail National Championship. My winningest active college broke into the starting lineup in mandate was to run an honest football coach explained. "The the Miami game and stayed program. make sure academics focus was not on winning the there the remainder of the 
came first, run a class operation bowl, but it was not the players season. and be as good as we could be. fault. In hindsight, that bothers Ismail's coming out party was 
In Holtz's first season. Notre me." Notre Dame's 54-11 win over Dame matched its 1985 mark, ••• Rice, in which he returned two as they finished 5-6 against Holtz feels the 1988 squad kickoffs for touchdowns, a feat what the NCAA rated the most was his first Notre Dame one he would repeat in 1989 against difficult schedule in college which adapted to his philosophy Michigan. football. and style. But, he did not think 
Though the Irish did not that would lead it to the ••• improve their record in 1986, National Championship. The 13th-ranked Irish began they laid the foundation for the "Going into the season, I did their quest for the National 
succnss of future teams. not think we had a great team," Championship on September 10 
The following season Notre the always-optimistic Irish under the set-up-for-ESPN Damn was ranked 16th in the coach said. "What I did know is lights of Notre Dame Stadium preseason polls, and it that we had a team with great against ninth-ranked Michigan. remained in the national attitude, great morale and great The advantage was opened to rankings for the entire year. work habits. 13-0 behind two Reggie Ho field Thn Irish opened the campaign A lot of "experts" felt the goals. but was erased by 14 
wilh back-to-hack victories over same way Holtz did about the unanswered points from the Top 20 teams, ninth-ranked 1988 team, as most were saying Wolverines. Michigan and 17th-ranked that Notre Dame was a year This set the stage for llo to Michigan State. away from the National boot his then-Notre Dame 
They went on to win eight of Championship. record fourth field goal of the their first nine games, en route Holtz greatest concern was game, a 26-yarder with 1:16 to a number seven ranking the defensive line. Ironically, left. 
heading into the final two this unit was made up of two Thn Wolverines then weeks of the season. men who are currently playing scrambled downfield to give "In 1987, we had a chance at in the NFL, and a third who is Gillette a chance to give the National Championship," awaiting his chance this Michigan its second straight Holtz recollected. "We were 8-1 summer. one-point win over the Irish, and had to play Penn State and "We were playing Jeff Aim, but his 49-yarder sailed wide Miami." Chris Zorich and "Boo" right on the last play of the 
The Penn State game was Williams, and none of those game. played in what Holtz called three had played before," Holtz The following week the "one of the most bitter days" he commented. "To be a good eighth-ranked Irish travelled to had ever experienced. football team, you have got to Spartan Stadium where defense 
"That loss to Penn State took be good on defense. In 1990 carried Notre Dame to a 20-3 
a lot out of us," Holtz said. and 1991 we had all the victory over Michigan State. "Then, we went·down to Miami ingredients, but we were weak Once again the Irish offense and just didn't play well." on defense." had trouble putting the ball in 
The Irish closed the regular­The offensive line was not a the end zone. Tony Rice capped season with a 24-0 loss to the big worry for Holtz because of an 71-yard drive with an eight­second-ranked Hurricanes. the team's offensive firepower, yard run to give his team a 13-3 
Though Notre Dame closed which included a backfield third quarter edge. Linebacker 
which The Sporting News called Michael Stonebreaker scored yard interception return. 

"I wasn't concerned that he 
was throwing the ball poorly in 
games because he was vastly 
improved in practice," Holtz 
commented. 

The Tony Rice of the practice 
field took the field against 
Purdue on September 24 and 
the next week at Stanford. He 
threw only five incomplete 
passes in 20 attempts, and the 
Irish offense erupted for 94 
points and 925 yards of total 
offense in the two drubbings. 
Things were a little more difficult at Pittsburgh. With the pressure of mid-terms and a showdown with top-ranked Miami on the horizon, Notre Dame struggled to a 30-20 win over the Panthers. 
Talk of a national title was all 
over the campus by this point. 
The Irish were 5-0 and number 
four in the country, but it would 
all mean nothing if they could 
not get past Miami. 

The Catholics vs. Convicts matchup turned out to be one of the greatest games ever played in Notre Dame Stadium. 
At the previous night's pep rally Holtz told the crowd that he wanted them to tell Miami coach Jimmy Johnson that we are going to beat him like yard dog. 
"That was completely unlike me," the usually humble Irish coach explained. 
Though Johnson and the 'Canes were not beaten like yard dogs they were beaten. 
Four years embarrassment and frustration were erased in an instant that is permanently etched in the mind of every Irish fan, when Pat Terrell broke up a two-point conversion which was intended for Leonard Conley. 
"When you play a team like Miami, the momentum goes back and forth and there are going to be great plays on both sides, and that is what makes it a great game," Holtz said. 
"What happened to us just before the half was disastrous," recollected Holtz. "But we came back out in the second half and stopped them on a fake punt, which was critical. We went on to take the lead, but I knew they'd come back." 
"After we beat Miami, I thought we were capable of beating anyone in the country," Holtz commented. "Everyone 
re it wasn ust a am. 
We were not going to have a 
bigger mountain than what 
we'd already had." 

The Irish flew past Air Force, 
41-13, the following week, and 
then travelled to the Naval 
Academy, where the 34-point 
underdogs gave the Irish all 
they could handle before going 
down 22-7. 

"I didn't like the whole 
attitude of the Navy week, and 
we had a lot of trouble getting 
there," Holtz recalled. "Our 
plane was six hours late, and 
the whole weekend was fouled 
up. 

The win, coupled with Washington State's 34-30 upset of UClA, lifted the Notre Dame to the top of the national polls for the first time since the second week of the 1981 season. 
The Irish debuted their number-one ranking in fine fashion, as they rolled past Rice, 54-11, and then amassed 502 yards of offense the next week in a 21-3 triumph over Penn State. 
This set up a meeting between the nation's top two ranked teams. 
Notre Dame journeyed west to face Southern Cal and Heisman candidate Rodney Peete. 
The Irish raced to a 14-0 first quarter lead, and the defense never let Peete get going in the 27-10 Notre Dame win. 
The Notre Dame "D" did the same in the Fiesta Bowl against undefeated and third-ranked West Virginia, as Aim and Stonebreaker crushed Mountaineer quarterback Major Harris in the first series of the game and injured his shoulder. 
"That was a very special year with a very special team," Holtz said of the 1988 season. 
Looking ahead to the future, Holtz says that he has the same goals as he had when he came here in 1986. 
"I want our football team to reflect the values Notre Dame espouses in its student body, and to be as good as we can be within the parameters set forth by the University. 
"I hope that is good enough to win a few more National Championships. But one thing that is different now than 1986 is that I know that we can compete with the very best teams in the country." 
Photo by Michael Bennett 
Chris Zorich (50), "Boo" Williams (69) and Jeff Aim (90) celebrate a 27-10 victory of USC. 
Friday, April 24, 1992 The Observer Page 19 
a 
" 

'l'a 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross announces the ordination to the priesthood of 
Bruce Kevin Cecil, C.S.C. Peter Andrew Jarret, C.S.C. Anthony Vincent Szakaly, C.S.C. 
Through the ancient Christian signs of laying on of hands and the prayer of the church the office of the presbyter will be conferred by the Most Reverend John D'Arcy, S.T.D. Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
Saturday, April 25, 1992 Basilica of the s,acred Heart Notre Dame, Indiana 
Rev. Bruce K. Gecil, C.S.C. Newburgh, Indiana 
AB Journalism , Indiana University BS Mechanical Engineering Purdue University M.Div. Theology1 University ofNdtre Dame Rev. Peter A. Jarret,, C.S.C. Narragansett, Rhode Island 

AB Government M.Div. Theology University of Notre Dame 

' 

~---~---~
rr---·----~""'ag_e.,.--2-0--•-----·,.._..--~---------------------T-h...e•O-b_s_e_rv_e_r~----­
Friday, April 24,1992 
HICIIFIELD, Ohio (API ­Brad Daugherty scored a CleveIand playoff-record 40 points and the Cavaliers made all 21 of their fourth-quarter free throws as they beat the New Jersey Nets 120-113 Thursday night in the opening game of the NBA playoffs. 
It's the first time in eight playoff appearances that the Cavaliers have won their open­ing game. New Jersey, which split the rPgular-season series with Cleveland 2-2. hasn't won in Riehfield since 1986. 
ThP Cavaliers, who haven't won a playoll' series since 1976, won it at the free-throw line. where they outscored the Nets 39-15 in the game and 21-6 in the fourth quarter. 
Mark Price scored 35 points for Cleveland. 24 of them in the first half. Daugherty had 16 rebounds and nine assists. leaving him one assist shy of Cleveland's first playoff triple­double. 
Drazen Petrovic scored 40 points for the Nets. also a team pI a yo ff-record. Derrick Coleman scored 21. 
Cleveland led by as many as nine in the fourth quarter but fell behind by a point twice in the closing minutes on baskets by Petrovic, whose 18-footer gave the Nets their final lead. 111-110, with 1:36 to play. But Daugherty. fouled while grab­bing a rebound, converted two free throws that put the Cavaliers ahead for good with 
1:16 left. 
Petrovic then missed a 3­pointer and John Williams was fouled on the rebound. lie hit both shots for a 114-111 Cleveland lead with a minute left. 
Williams stole the ensuing in­bounds pass by Terry Mills and dunked for a five-point lead that deflated the Nets. 
Trail Blazers 115, Lakers102 

PORTLAND. Ore.-The Portland Trail Blazers opened a 36-point lead in the first half and scored 75 points by half­time before coasting to a 115­102 victory over the Los Angeles Lakers in their playoff opener Thursday night. 
Cliff Robinson scored a career playoff-high 24 points, leading four Blazers with 20 or more points. 
Clyde Drexler had 22 points and 10 assists. Buck Williams 21 points and 13 rebounds and Terry Porter 20 points. 8 assists and 7 rebounds. 
Trailing 74-41 at halftime, the Lakers scored 16 straight points early in the third quarter as Portland didn't make its first field goal of the period until the 
7:05 mark. 
.. 
~,llalr('uttingCo~ 

As a result. Los Angeles closed to 89-7 4 with 1 :08 left in the quarter before four straight points by Porter helped boost the margin to 93-7 4 at the end of the period. Byron Scott. who finished with 22 points. had 10 in the quarter. 
Terry Teagle scored 12 of his 22 in the fourth quarter as the Lakers cut the lead to 13, but there wasn't enough time for a miracle comeback. A.C. Green added 19 points and 10 re­bounds. 
Sonics117,Warriors109 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Shawn Kemp and Ricky Pierce scored 28 points apiece and the underdog Seattle SuperSonics defeated Golden State 117-109 Thursday night in the opener of their first-round playoff series. 
The Warriors, playing with a homecourt advantage for the first time since 1977. lost it in this best-of-5 series when the Sonics exploited their size ad­vantage, outrebounding Golden State 52-34. 
Derrick McKey scored 19 points and Gary Payton had 14 points and 12 assists for Seattle. the sixth seed in the Western Conference. Kemp grabbed 16 rebounds. 
Billy Owens scored 25 points. Sarunas Marciulionis 23 and Tim Hardaway 22 for third­seeded Golden State. Chris Mullin struggled throughout and finished with 16 points, nearly 10 under his regular­season average. 
Seattle led 96-80 after three quarters and still was ahead 105-92 when Golden State ral­lied. The Warriors outscored the So nics 9-1 over a 2:12 span, closing to 106-101 on Hardaway's 3-pointer with 3:07 

AP File Photo Cleveland's Brad Daugherty, center, scored 40 points as the Cavaliers beat the New Jersey Nets, 120-113, in fist round NBA playoff action. Cleveland has not advanced past the first round in their last eight tries. 
to play. Leading 66-62 early in the ahead 92-74. 
The two teams traded two third quarter, Seattle's 12-4 In the third quarter, Seattle baskets before Payton made a spurt made it 78-66 with 5:14 made 15 of 22 shots and reverse layup with 1:27 left, left in the period. Pierce, who outscored Golden State 38-26 giving the Sonics a 112-105 scored 17 points in the third for a 96-80 lead. lead. period, converted a three-point The Sonics had to settle for a 
After Nate McMillan missed a play with 1:59 left for an 89-7 4 58-54 halftime lead after blow-3-pointer, Owens' two free lead, and made two free throws ing double-digit leads in both throws with 46 seconds left 55 seconds later to put Seattle the first and second quarters. pulled the Warriors within five again, but at that point, they had to begin fouling. Seattle 
It's OK Joe,
made 5 of 6 free throws the rest of the way. 
You can buy for yo,urself 
now! 
: 
Happy '" 21st Benco! 
: 
,................................................. 
THE DANCE COLLECTIVE 
• 
PRESENTS 


1_)\r~~
• 
" 

tloN 
ANOTREDAMEISr.MARr's STUDENT DANCE CoMPANY • 
IN 

"FRAGILE" 
Yl COLL'ECTIOJo/..O'.J.Yi'l1'JYF.9{J."O{mtfXJ~'D ~~I'E'D 
t9{J..mlt'J{fj M'L9ol01(f OJCOLL'E/E:J{JfrPP M{.'D '.M'E(j!l{M{'fk'£L'E!l( 
ToNIGHT AT 8PM IN MoREAU LITTLE THEATRE· SMC 
AND 'I'DJlDAY,MBIL28AT8P!IINWASil!NG'TIJN HALL-ND 
12ATTIIEDOOR

.................•............................., 

Friday, April24, 1992 , 
page 21 


N.D. FOR THE £LESS 



HPC 
CAMPUS BANDS 2:00-7:00 STEPAN FIELD 

Campus Bands at 

I
SATURDAY APRIL 25 
I 
I 
J 
--------~----------------------------~----·~ 
page 22 
Tettleton and Tigers down Rangers, 11-5 
AHLINGTON, Texas (AP) -

Miekey Tettleton's three-run 
double keyed another early 
outburst as the Detroit Tigers 
used a five-run first inning to 
rough up the Texas Hangers 
11-5 Thursday night. 

The Tigers, who scored six 
times in the first inning in 
swept the series. Detroit had 
27 runs in the three games and 
36 hits. including 15 in the 
finale. 

After two innings, Detroit led 6-5 and the teams had combined for 15 hits. Milt Cuyler hit a three-run homer in the seventh. 
Heliever Les Lancaster (1-1) shut out Texas on three hits for 4 2-3 innings. lie allowed Julio Franeo's HBI grounder and Hafael Palmeiro's two-run double in the seeond, although the runs were eharged to starter Frank Tanana. 
John Doherty pitched 3 1-3 innings for his first major league save. 
Detroit put Kevin Brown (3-1) in trouble right away, loading the bases in the first inning on one-out singles by Lou Whitaker and Travis Fryman and a walk to Ceeil Fielder. Tettleton blooped a double down the left field line that eleared the bases and Chad Kreuter got an HBI double on a ball that was misjudged by left fielder Kevin Heimer. 
Kreuter's last hit in the majors was on Oct. 3, 1990, for the Hangers. Mark Carreon eapped the inning with an HBI single. 
Texas cut its defidt to 5-2 in the bottom of the first on four consecutive singles, including run-scoring hits by Ruben Sierra and Juan Gonzalez. 
Fielder singled home a run in the Detroit second. The Hangers then rallied with four runs against Tanana and Lancaster. 
Heimer misplayed another ball in left, giving Scott Livingstone a double, and Lou Whitaker hit a sacrifice fly in the third, putting the Tigers ahead 8-5. 
Blue Jays 13, Indians 8 

TOHONTO-Kelly Gruber homered twice, doubled and drove in four runs, leading a 15-attack that carried the Toronto Blue Jays past the Cleveland Indians. 
Gruber. who had gone eight games without an extra-base hit. enjoyed the seventh two­homer game of his major­league earecr. Devon White and Joe Carter, who extended his hitting stn!ak to 16 games, also contributed two-run 
Grand Opening Aprll 3rd 
Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIAUZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese 

t 
Video Tapes Free Membership State Road :Z3 U Ironwood Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat 10 am to 10 pm Sun 1:Z noon to & pm 
(ZI9) %73-9545 

The Observer 

AP File Photo 
Mamoth first-baseman Cecil Fielder helped the Detroit Tigers to a 6-3 win over the Minnesota Twins. 
homers. 

Albert Belle drove in four runs with his third homer and a single for Cleveland, which trailed 13-4 after five innings. 
A shaky Todd Stottlemyre (2­
1) was the beneficiary of the Blue Jays' best offensive show­ing since they scored 13 runs in Cleveland last Sept. 9. He got his second win in as many starts, despite surrendering eight runs and 13 hits in 6 2-3 innings. Dave Otto (1-2) was the loser. 
Orioles 8, Royals 1 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Mike Mussina pitched a six-hitter Thursday night, Mark McLemore went 4 for 5 and the Baltimore Orioles, off to their best start in 21 years, beat a Kansas City team off to its worst start ever. 
The Orioles' seventh straight victory left them 10-5 for the first time since 1971. Kansas City's seventh straight loss plunged the Royals to 1-14, worst in the major leagues. The 
Deliuery It 
Ct~rryout 
Call 232-2499 
XCELLENT VALUE! 
I Buy A 1 
I Large I 
I For I
I Medium I 
I Charge I I smg~e Plua Orden 0o1y I 
loss left them 1-8 on their first homestand, the worst in the franchise's 24-year history. 
Mussina (2-0) walked one and struck out four and had an 8-0 lead before the Hoyals seored on Gregg Jefferies' HBl single in the sixth. Mark Davis (0-2) gave up two runs before being lifted in the third. 
Mariners 3, Twins 2 
SEATTLE -Greg Briley's RBI single in the seventh inning broke a 2-2 tie and the Seattle Mariners beat the Minnesota Twins and Scott Erickson 3-2 Thursday. 
Seattle trailed 2-1 when Jay Buhner led off the seventh with his first home run of the season off Erickson (0-2). Erickson walked Tino Martinez and Jeff Schaefer sacrificed Martinez to second. 
After Erickson struck out pinch-hitter Dave Cochrane, Briley delivered his single to right field. 
Erickson, a 20-game winner last year for the champion Twins, failed in his fourth bid of the season for his first vietory. lie gave up three runs on five hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
Huss Swan (2-2) got the victory with relief from Jeff Nelson, who replaced him in the top of the eighth inning, and Mike Schooler, who pitehed the ninth for his fourth save. Swan gave up two runs on five hits, four for extra bases. 
The Twins took a 1-0 lead in the first on Shane Mack's triple on the first pitch of the game and Chuck Knoblauch's infield out. They made it 2-0 in the fifth on Greg Gagne's double and Mack's single. 
The Mariners made it 2-1 in the sixth. 
Harold Reynolds walked and went to second on Ken Griffey Jr.'s single. Reynolds and Griffey then pulled off a double steal, and Heynolds came home on Kevin Mitchell's sacrifice fly. 
I Carryout/Delluery I 
I ~May 31, 1992 1 
TrytheHotTaste
I II I I 
I ~ I
I ~ I ofPizzalluf1bnight.
I Please menUon coupon when ordering. One coupor. I1per customer per visit at partlclpaUng Pizza HutI restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH I .J!IY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area. I 
:& 
I I I 

Friday, April 24,1992 
Batiste leads Phils past Cubs 
CHICAGO (AP)-Kim Batiste hit his first major league home run and Tommy Greene allowed two hits over seven innings Thursday as the Philadelphia Phillies defeated the Chicago Cubs 8-2. 
Greene (2-1) struck out six and walked five, allowing both runs in the first inning on three walks, an error and an infield out. The only hits he allowed were a single by Shawon Dunston, a single in the second and a double in the seventh as the Cubs had three hits overall off Greene and Curt Schilling. 
Frank Castillo (0-1) pitched 6 1-3 innings, gave up seven runs and six hits for the Cubs. 
Expos 6, Pirates 3 

MONTREAL-Spike Owen drove home two runs as Montreal and Mark Gardner took advantage of five Pittsburgh errors to beat the Pirates 6-3 and end their nine­game winning streak. 
Gardner (2-1) allowed seven hits over 8 1-3 innings to beat Zane Smith (3-1 ), who had his personal winning streak stopped at seven. Smith allowed all six runs, three of them earned in 5 1-3 innings. 
John Wetteland came on in the ninth aftPr Pittsburgh had scored twice to post his third save. 
Three errors allowed the Expos to score two runs in the first. 
Marquis Grissom led off with a double and continued to third when Cecil Espy, subbing for Barry Bonds in left, bobbled the ball. 
Owen then hit a ball to third baseman Steve Buechele, who threw home. Grissom knocked the ball out of of catcher Mike LaValliere's hands to score on the play. LaValliere was given an error, his first in 101 games. 
Owen's double drove in two runs in the sixth when the Expos knocked out Smith. Owen went to third on an in­field hit by Calderon and scored when shortstop Jay Bell misplayed the ball into right field. 
Dine-In at 
Downtown 
282-2543 
or Roseland 277-2121 
CHOICE DEAL 

'IWo Medium I 1-Thpping I 
I 
I
Pizzas 

I I I I I 

Carryout/Oelluery I !:!~!! May 31, 1991 I 

II 9 I I 
1Please menbon coupon when ordering. One coupon 1 I per customer per visit at participating Pizza Hut 1 restaurants or delivery stores. NOT VALID WITH II ANY OTHER COUPON. Limited delivery area. I 
..-----------­

Friday, April 24,1992 The Observer page 23 
Pfeffer, M~cklin lead SMC Track to Elmhurst
I 

By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
With the hype of thetSummer Olympics and the question who's the
0

better athlete-Dan or Dave? many are quickly beginning to follow track and field events. 
While the Saint Mary's track team may not have Dan or Dave o~ its squad this season, it does have t~ athletes who have trained together f~r the last four years and who are expected to soar at this weekend's season end4J.g meet at Elmhurst College. : 
Setting both personal ~ests and school records. Lynn Pfeffer and Sandi Macklin moved to the forefront this 
season. leading the young squad both on and off the track. The two compete in the lbng jump, 
triple jump and javelin event$. Despite the fact that they compete ini the same events. they never lookeq at it as 
competing against each oth~r. but as competing together as teambtates for the school. j 
"There's no competiti'on. We encourage each other to do. our best. We know where each other n~eds help. I know I definitely wouldn't have improved without her (Macklin) there to help me," explained Pfeffer. , "We just worked together for four years. It's fun. She's (Pfe~fer) very encouraging. She tries to make you do 
your best. It's going to be hard, to leave," said Macklin 
The encouragement goes beyond kind words. These two friends believe that one does well, they both do well. 
"I'm excited for her when she gets a personal best. It's the best feeling because being there to help her makes you feel that you helped her do her best," Pfeffer said. "She's been injured this year and still jumped way past her personal records. When she's on, everyone's excited." 
At the Wabash Polar Bear Meets, Pfeffer and Macklin teamed up for the long jump, triple jump and javelin relays. They broke all three records in the event, soaring for a combined jump 
of 30 feet, two inches in the long jump, and 65 feet, eight and-a-half inches in the triple jump. The two also combined for a throw of 181 feet, one inch in the javelin. 
At the Saginaw Valley Invitational in February, Macklin broke Pfeffer's previous indoor long jump record, soaring 15 feet, five and-awhalfinches. 
Belles coach Larry Szcechowski credits Macklin's hard work, both during the season and off-season, for the success she has had this year. 
"It's hard to believe four years are over. When Sandi came in, sl\e was just a long jumper and sprinter. She never did a triple jump ·or a javelin throw. 
. . . 
Over the years she's becmne dedicated to the program." · 
"I think I went into this season with a 
better attitude than the last ones/and it 
is paying off," added Macklin. 
Before the Easter Break, Pfeffer 
accomplished her collegiate goal, 
setting the school recordJn the javelin, 
throwing for 123 feet and nine inches. 
With the throw, Pfeffer also set the Little 
State.s Invitational record and just 
missed Division III national provisional 
qualifications by 27 centimeters. . 
Looking to tomorrow's meet, Pfeffer 
and Sczcechowski are confident she can 
stretch that throw far enough to qualify 
for a spot in the national meet. 
"We're going to give her every 
opportunity to do it," Szczechowski 
explaine,d. "We've been working a lot on 
her approach speed and she's :been 
throwing real well. 1 think she has a 
real shot at it." 

In addition to the javelin record. Pfeffer set the school's outdoor triple jump record with a jump of 33 feet and eight inches. Sha improved herlong ·jump, achieving a personal best with a 
jump of 16 feet, one andwa~halfinches. 
As for tomorrow's meetat Elmhurst, both Pfeffer and Macklin are expected to go head-to-head against the com-
Tennis 
continued from page 28 
the fact that Zurcher lost to Decker 6-4 in 
the third set last year and it makes for a 
pretty intriguing match up. 
"This is a match that I've been looking forward to for a long time," said Zurcher. "He's a tough player and I'm going to have to stay concentrated and focused throughout the match." 
As. far as the team goes, they too could 
have a difficult road ahead of them. The 
Hoosiers are 9-1 in the Big Ten and were 
ranked in the top-25 all year long before 
falling out of last week's rankings. And as 
if it couldn't get any worse, the Irish will 
likely have to face a large, hostile crowd 
at Bloomington due to this weekend's 
Little 500. 
"It's a big weekend there and there's 
going to be a big crowd," said Irish head 
coach Bob Bayliss, "So they'll come out 
sky high with nothing to lose." 
The Irish will likely try to neutralize the 
crowd with the play of the number-one 
ranked singles player in collegiate tennis, 
David DiLucia. From there, the Irish's 
superior depth will be relied upon to beat 
the Hoosiers. 
Junior Chuck Coleman, who with 
DiLucia comprises the fourth-ranked 
doubles team in the nation. will play at 
three-singles, and Will Forsyth will 
petition. And b9t:fl are confidentthat. compete at fourth-singles. For the not only will they do well, but the team remaining two spots, Bayliss will choose will fmish the season with success. from the tandem of Chris Wojtalik, Tom 
'-------------L~------------------------~·.J:t···ih.:.:.:....._·J.<:~····._£··•····._ _j North, or Ron Rosas. 
Come and Enjoy the Grand Opening of the Spaghetti Warehouse! 
(!For111£r{y tlie Spaglietti WorkJ) 
501 N Niles Ave Sunday, April 26 -Noon-10 pm 
All proceeds will benefit South Bend's Center for the Homeless! 

lUNNY IOI.S'• 

"Those three are so close that it is a shame to have one of them sit out." said Bayliss. 
Occupying the third doubles spot behind the DiLucia-Coleman and Zurcher-Forsyth teams will be North and fellow sophomore Tad Eckert. They have solidified their position with steady play and could continue their impressive string with another victory this weekend. 
"This is a tough matchup;" stated Bayliss, "They're going to come out firing away and we'll have to really be focused." 
AD 

continued from page 28 
•The reasons cited were ridiculous. If "reflecting the interests of the student body" is any sort of criteria for maintaining a sport, Notre Dame should also do away with lacrosse. fencing. cross country, track, golf, swimming, and most women's and club sports-which have typically low student turnout. 
And if student interests are the issue, why not set up a RecSports wrestling tournament? It would be much simpler than dismantling an entire varsity program. 
The athletic department maintains that money was not an issue. But this is merely an exercise in doublespeak. Since the program was looked down upon, and had $3 million to its name, there is no way to argue that money wasn't an issue. 
Most importantly, the decision provides insight about Rosenthal's character. Why is this so alarming? 
If Notre Dame is a family. how does this ...... man fit into the family? Indeed, it seems as if he would sell some of the family members into slavery if a profit could be made. 
If justice is defined as "giving people their due." has Mr. Rosenthal fulfilled the demands of justice? 
This is not to judge Mr. Rosenthal or condemn him. But in his tenure as athletic director, he has handled himself in a way that makes him seem unfit to live in a community based ostensibly on trust and Christian values. 
Brutus and Cassius killed Caesar to preserve the Roman republic. The wrestling program was killed for $3 million. Which cause is the just cause? 
Et tu, Dick? 
Recycle 
~~----------------~--------~~----~----------~~--~------~--~-­
The Observer 

j.)age 24 
Softball hosts Northeastern, Loyola 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
With such a busy schedule, rarely does the Notre Dame softball team get a week ofT. 
But after the rain-out at Butler on Monday, the Irish hope to get back into the swing of things, literally, as they face Northeastern Illinois today at 
3:30 p.m. today and Loyola at 
2 p.m. on Saturday. DePaul shut out the Irish (23­
19) in both games at Notre Dame last Friday, 2-0 and 1-0, squandering fine pitching per­formances by Carrie Miller and Staci Alford. Ronny Alvarez (.200) and Carrie Miller (.212), usually big contributors,are struggling, while freshman Sara Hayes (.323) and senior Ruth Kmak (.296) have been consistent with the stick this season. 
Northeastern Illinois could be the cure for the ailing Irish bats. The Golden Eagles begin their second year at level Division I after finishing 14-30 last year. On the mound, Northeastern offers either Tracie Ryndak (5-8, 6.35 ERA last season) or newcomer Dawn Karkoska. Coach Annette Tracy relies on the bat of catcher Chris Yahn, who hit .242 last season. 
Today's game for Notre Dame will be a tune-up for Saturday's inter-conference battle with Loyola. The Ramblers, 13-19 overall, have split six MCC games and stand
·-in fourth place in the confer­ence. Loyola is second in the MCC in hitting with a .266 av­erage. 
Sophomore Gina Wegreke has the hot bat for the Hamblers this year, hitting .357 with 11 RBI and seven doubles. Patty Zuhlke (.348) and Jill Schmidt (.286) are also major contributors with the stick. Kari Klier (6-8) leads the Hamblers' pitching staff with a 
1.77 ERA. 
Notre Dame's pitching staff ranks second in the MCC with a 2.07 ERA, led by Alford's ultra-stingy 1.45 mark. She leads the conference in K's with 77 in 105.3 innings. 
For the fourth consecutive year, Notre Dame lead all insti-
The Statistics for the report to the ND community from the Honor Code Committee which appeared on Wednesday, April 22, were 
.. ... 
misprinted. The correct statistics appear below. 
Number of Committee Number ofviolations 
College of Arts & Letters 
College of Bus. Ad. 
College of Engineering 
College of Science 
Hearings  Determined  
43  34  
21 involving 39 students  27  
10 involving 23 students  6  
6  


tutions with 78 students on the Midwest Collegiate Conference honor roll. 
Of the 23 students in softball, the Irish boasted six: senior catcher Amy Folsom (Economics). juniors Ronny Alvarez (Psychology), Casey McMurray (History), Lisa Miller (Marketing), Sheri Quinn (COTHJ) and sophomore Amy Reuter(AeroSpace Engineering). 

Earth Blade '9Z 
Sunday April Z6th 
~oK~oAM ~K9AM 
• • •CASH PRIZES 
NATIONALLY RANKED 
SKATERS• • •BLADE 
GEAR PRIZES• • •T­
SHIRTS FOR FIRST 200 

ENTRANTS • • • EARTH DAY INFO• • •POST NORTHWEST AIRLINES ~ RACE PARTY AT IUSB WI WAY PAST TENSE .. • 

Plnhook Park on Riverside Drive For more Info. call Outpost Sports 259-1000 
Friday, April 24,1992 
Irish women to run at Ball State Relays 
By JOSEF EVANS Sports Writer 

A very sizable group of ath­letes will be representing the Notre Dame women's track squad at the Ball State Relays this Saturday, and expectations are high. 
"If we run to our full poten­tial, we should do really well," 

put in Kristin Stovall, who will Lisa Gorski be running in the 200 meter quite as stiff as in earlier and 400 meter races, as well meets or the Drake Relays also as the 4 x 100 and 4 x 400 being held this weekend, meter relays. which may make it easier for 
Her personal aspirations are the women to do well. high as well, saying, ''I'm hop­"We can be competitive," ing to set a personal record, Stovall assured. since it's the last meet of the Leading the Irish will be ju­year." niors Lisa Gorski and Karen 
However, the last meet of the Harris, both of whom posted year can also be a drawback, season highs at last year's Ball as the long season has taken State Relays. In addition, its toll on more than a few of Gorski is coming off a personal the team members. record showing in the 1500 
"A lot of people are starting meters, which she attained at to get sluggish, but hopefully last week's Kansas Relays. we'll be ready on Saturday," "Practices have been great noted Diane Castorina, who is all year, but the meets have just coming ofT an injury. She been a different story," will be running the 400 meters commented Stovall. and possibly the mile relay. Hopefully they can turn that 
The competition will not be around. 

Friday, April 24,1992 The Observer page 25 
A confident ,'Darby leads SMC tennis 
BY CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
Enough can't be said about the role that confidence play~ in any athlete's performance1 But as any athlete will tell you~ without it, you can't win. ' 
Saint Mary's tennis player Thayma Darby know this fronit experience. In her second sea~ son at Saint Mary's, the numL her five singles player has ~ proved her record tremen~ dously from last season. ' 
Allowing the frustration g~t the best of her, Darby only wop three of her 18 matches. However, this season Darb~ leads the squad with a 13-!3 record. How does she explaiP the difference? Confidence. , 
"I am much more controlh~d· and relaxed this year. I have also learned to control nlY anger and use it in a construc­tive way to help my game," ejt<­plained Darby. "The key to tl!le change in my performance tl1is year is being more relaxed artd having a little self-confidence I lacked in these areas laist year." 
"She's definitely a chang~d player. Last year she played tto not lose. Now she plays 1to win," explained Belles coach ~o Anne Nester. "This year sh~'s more confident and she plays her own game which alloWs her to be more successfhl. Now she sets the tone." , 
Darby started playing tennis in junior-high. Though no~ a serious player at first, Darby soon developed an excitement for the game and continued to pursue it in high school. 

In her career at Sturgis High School in Sturgis, Michigan, Darby was honored Most Valuable Player in her sopho­more year, Twin Valley Conference Champion all four years and Regional Champions three years. Finally in her se­nior year, as the team's number three singles player, she helped lead her team to a second-place finish in the state tournament, and won runner~ up in the state's tournament. 
One influence has been her sister, former Belles coach Shelly Schultz. As she ex­plained, her admiration for her older sister inspired her to be a better player. 
"My sister, who is eight and a half years older than I, was great player in high school and and also played one year at Saint Mary's. I grew up watch­ing my sister play. I always wanted to be just like my big sister." 
In an individualized sport like tennis, teamwork is often overlooked. However, in Darby's mind, the team always comes first. Shy of the attention she has received this season, Darby gives credit for her success to her teammates, especially the upperclassmen. 
"I have gotten immeasurable amounts of support from my teammates which has helped 
Happy 21st 
Birthday, Cowboy 
Just Remember When to Sa "WHOA" 
me to build confidence in my playing," Darby said. "The up­perclassmen have been fantas­tic role models. I have great re­spect for these individuals and the leadership they have pro­vided for the team." 
Darby continued to say that while she is happy for the suc­cess she has had this season, she is happier that the success has benefitted the team. 
"I think she's such a contrib­utor. She's a total team player. She goes out there for Saint Mary's College. And that's a real compliment to he~··· because tennis is such an individual sport. Her goal is to win her singles and doubles matches so her team can win,;.·· 
added Nester. ·•· 
Darby has also found success with doubles partner Shannon McGinn. The complimentary combination of McGinn's height and strength at the net and Darby's depth makes them an invincible force on the court.. As Nester explained. the two work well together. 
"It's a very symbiotic rela­tionship. They feed off of each other's strengths and weak­nesses. Thayma does a nice job at keeping the baH deep. Shannon's size advantage helps a lot at the net, and she's a steady player." · 
Tomorrow the Belles take on Wheaton College in their last home game of the season. 
Last year the Belles beat Wheaton 5-4. 
Women's bookstore hit by storm; Rattle and Hummus, Look.. and Exqueeze me advance 
By SAMANTHA SPENCER Smooth, Swift,and Sweat ,21-15 
Sports Writer 
Two storms hit Lyons' bas­ketball courts last night. 
The first was the torrent of rain that decided to make its rounds minutes before 4:30, drenching the court and every­thing in the general area in the process. 
The second arrived at 4:30, lasting for the next three hours, as the women's book­store quarterfinal teams denied the weather conditions with an evening of good solid basket­ball. 
Powering towards the cham­pionship in an elite and highly competitive field, Rattle and Hummus, Look But Don't Touch, and Exsqueeze Me: You Think We'll Lose?! posted vic­tories yesterday, clinching spots in the women's bookstore final four, held tomorrow morning at Stepan, as Rattle and Hummus takes on Exsqueeze Me at 10 a.m., fol­lowed by Look But Don't Touch versus the winner of CJ's Pub and Ring My Belle I at 11 a.m. 
The championship game is this Sunday. 
The fourth semifinal spot will be determined today at Lyon's at 5:30 with the victor of CJ's Pub versus Ring My Belle I, both predominantly Saint Mary's teams. 
Rattle and Hummus over 
Store Your Stuff ! 
(for the summer) ~.,.---~ 

The taller Rattle and Hummus used its height and outside passing to take this game, as varsity women's bas­ketball star Margaret Nowlin chalked up 10 points and 15 rebounds, despite a first half of low scoring due to being heavily defended under the boards. 
Also standing out for Rattle were senior captain Maureen Nelligan and junior Marianne Haggerty. Nelligan contributed five baskets to the victory, while Haggerty's quick, sharp passing and her ability to push the> ball up the court greatly added to the team effort. 
For Smooth, Swift, and Sweaty, who opened the game with a 6-3 lead, point-guard Teresa Forst lead her team of­fensively with both outside shooting and skilled ballhan­dling, while Patti Lynn played scrappy defense under the bas­ket. 
As Rattle's Nelligan noted, "It was tough for both teams be­cause of the weather, but we got tough inside, got the boards, and played solid bas­ketball." 
Look But Don't Touch over Schwing, 21-19 

The closest game of the evening, which went back and forth until the end, was also the most physical of the three games, as the Law school team Look... acquired nine fouls by the end of the first half. 
For Schwing, senior captain Jennie Bruening seemed to hit every outside jumper she took in the first half , while fresh­man center Kristina Roderick led her team in scoring for the game with six points. Varsity player Comalita Haysbert led the game's rebounding with seven. 
For the victors, strong team­work and a push in the inten­sity at the end of the second half paid off with the win. Center Mya Whitmore was powerful underneath with six baskets and three rebounds, and point guard Melissa Cook used her quickness on the fast break for key layup points. Missy Byrne led the scoring with seven, most of these com­ing from long jumpers and foul shots. 
"The game was extremely physical, and I think it could have gone either way," said captain Ndidi Opia, who con­tributed to the victory with sev­eral steals of her own. "At the end we just turned it up a notch." 
Exsqueeze Me: You Think We'll Lose?! over Pigs, 21-8 
"Everybody scored; they left us open," said standout Sara Liebscher of Exsqueeze's win, the biggest sweep of the evening. "That's the strength of our team, you have to guard everybody." 
Exsqueeze exemplified team play, individual ability, and ball control as they took Pigs 21-8. Women's basketball assistant coach Sandy Botham was deadly underneath and led all scoring with seven, while Liebscher made four of her own while dominating the boards with 14. 
Said Liebscher, "We had both inside and outside; everything kind of clicked." 
j 


page 26 The Observer Friday, April 24,1992 
• N D takes on MCC opponent Butler 
By JENNY MARTEN (series) is their season. I would are all banged up and will be Associate Sports Editor be very surprised if we walk out hobbling if they play this with four wins." weekend. 
So far this year Midwestern Collegiate Conference baseball Xavier has been abused "We have faced adversity real teams have been no match for recently, losing four out of five well," said Murphy. "We played the 19th-ranked Notre Dame game last week. The well over the weekend and baseball team. Musketeers lost to Cincinnati, against Indiana State." 
17-4 and Eastern Kentucky, 1 0­Last weekend, the Irish (24-4 on the road, but returned The Irish will have to 
11) swept the Butler Bulldogs in home to snatch one from the continue to play well to defeat four straight games and they Bearcats, 5-4. Over the the Musketeers this weekend. will have a chance to pull off a weekend, Xavier ran into Leading Xavier at the plate are similar feat this weekend when trouble against MCC foe sophomore outfielder Keith 
the team travels to Xavier (14-Evansville, losing a Oerther (.358, 32 RBI, 6 HR), 
28) for a four-game series. doubleheader 6-2 and 12-1. junior catcher John Dressman (.341, 27 RBI), and junior 
Currently, the Irish are The Musketeers come into the outfielder Matt Novak (.302, 22 undefeated in conference play game sporting the second-best RBI, 6 HR). B1,1t the Irish are with eight wins while Xavier is team batting average in the also starting to produce at the 4-6. Last year, Notre Dame MCC with .274. The Irish are plate. swept the series with three third at .268. Xavier has the victories. worst team earned run average "We are starting to hit the 
--in the MCC (7 .17) while the ball," said Murphy. "Failla is But Notre Dame coach Pat Irish are on top in the category hitting the ball real well and Murphy is not counting his (3.33). DeSensi is doing well off the chickens before they're bench." hatched. The Irish come into the game feeling the effects of their The Irish and the Musketeers
... 
"We have always dominated rigorous schedule. Senior Craig meet for a doubleheader on Junior Pat Leahy, standing six-foot-seven and weighing 245 pounds, is the MCC in regular season Counsell, sophomore Greg Saturday and another on an overpowering figure on the mound with 51 strikeouts this season. play," said Murphy. "But this Layson, and junior Dan Bautch Sunday. 
The Observer/J. Bingham 
Pitchers win with different styles 
By JASON KELLY to look in the bullpen and see a "Their different styles defi­Sports Writer good reliever and not finish nitely affect the other teams," what they started." Murphy explained. "They're all Although each pitcher has very different people and we
A solid pitching staff is con­
proven his winning attitude, want them to stay within their
sidered one of the most impor­
each has his own identity on game and not try to become like 
tant elements for a winning 
the mound. any of the others." 
baseball team, as the Notre 
Leahy has overpowered hit­As the season continues, each
Dame has proven this season. 
ters to the tune of 51 strikeouts is leaving his mark on the Irish
Junior starting pitchers Pat 
this season and Walania and record books. 
Leahy, David Sinnes, Alan 
Sinnes also have the power to Michalak is currently the
Walania and Chris Michalak 
blow away the opposition, winningest Irish pitcher in his­
have been the stabilizing force 
although collecting only 40 and tory, winning 18 of 22 (.818 ).
behind an Irish baseball team 
3 2 strikeouts, respectively. Sinnes is third on the list with
that boasts a 24-11 record, in­
Michalak is more of a finesse an 18-5 career mark and Leahy
cluding an unblemished 8-0 
pitcher, mixing up pitches and is fifth at 21-7. Those 21 wins
mark in the Midwestern 
forcing opponents into one put Leahy at number two on the
Collegiate Conference. 
ground ball after another. all-time win list, with Walania
Sinnes leads the way with a 
"We have three pitchers who at number three with 19. 
5-1 mark, followed closely by 
are capable of throwing the ball And Sinnes is 11 K's away
Michalak at 6-2, Leahy at 5-3 
past hitters, but hitting is from tying Tom Bujnowski's
and Walania at 4-3. 
timing and pitching is disrupt­record 206 career strikeouts.
Throughout the 1992 season, 
ing that timing and they have With another full season
this combination has held Irish 
all done that this season," ahead of each of them, this ju­
opponents in check, allowing 
Murphy commented. nior combination will not only
less than three runs per game 
Their different styles are an rewrite most of the Irish record 
as a group. 
advantage during a three or books, but they will also be the
"One of our goals at the be­
four-game series, as the Irish backbone of an Irish program
ginning of the season was for 
have proven recently with four­that is steadily increasing its
the starting pitchers to com­
game sweeps of both Evansville national prominence. 

plete their games," Irish coach 
and Butler to open the MCC
Pat Murphy said. "It's too easy 
season. 
Macri's Pizza & Italian Restaurant Pizza-Pasta-Sandwiches-Stuffed Pizza Pies 
Carry out or Dine in 
52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center llAM-lOPM (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
.. 
Why could this person be so happy? 

A) She found out that ND is letting her go here for free. 
B) She just got back from an exotic vacation with all the Chippendale 
C) She actually knows where she's living next year 
D) She just turned the big 21 on Sunday 
HAPPY BElATED BAR-DAY NANCY! (YOU CAN USE YOUR RFAL ID NOW BA-BEE) 
Luv, Your Roomies & Pushy Cat 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•Irish 
Guard informational meeting for anyone interested in trying out next year will be on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in LaFortune's TV lounge. Questions? Call 283-2449. 

•Earth 
Blade 1992 consists of 3K and 10K in-line skating (rollerblade) races on Riverside Drive near Pinhook Park. The $18 registration fee goes to the Indiana Conservation Society. Questions? Call Outpost Sports at 259-1000. 


.•NO ROTC will sponsor the second annual Tri-Military run for charity ori Friday at 5 p.m. All are welcome to participate. Registration will be held on the day of the race beginning at 4 
p.m. behind the Security Building. The cost is $8 per runner with proceeds going to the Special Olympics. 
~lEW lElli~~r:f(Q)lRf:Y' CC(Q) illill~ !E lf(Q)ill lFA111 ll~9)~ 
HIST 379 DIRECT ACTION AND PASSIVE RESISTANCE IN 
MODERN  AMERICA  -Thomas-TH  9:30-10:45 a.m.(Call#4210)  
(Course desc.:ription  c.:an  be  picked  up in the  History Department  
office.)  

CELEBRATE IN STYLE I 


PLAN A PARTY: -WITH YOUR FRIENDS -FOR YOUR FRIENDS WITH YOUR FAMILY 
CALL TODAYI 
........................... '. 
\..t.."'Q':L"'f.-.9',. ...-..... -r-:-T;"' ~.-~........ ,.,....,...~ .._......_.........~......_,. ....,.,.__...,_·.,:a.•.a"'•'•"a...·:fo.-.... ··--··--"'--·. 


4 a 
--· 

•
Today 
Friday, April 24,1992 • page 27 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
"NO?€ .' IN ~~<:.\, "-FTER li'\JI t.. WOR~ IN \.ltR \lAIR SHE KNOCKED Mt. DoWN f\1-\D K\CK£D ~t.. \1\ 1\l.t. 'S\1.\I-IS ' 

THE FAR SIDE 
MENU 
NOTRE DAME 
Marinated Flank Steak Chili Crispitos Turkey Pot Pie 
Saint Mary's 
Perch Fillet Deli Bar Turkey Cutlets California Quiche 
BILL WATTERSON 
NO!'£! 1'-\'1 
T\.\E I'AP~R 
1-\0RCSCOI'£ 
S\-\0\JLI> PRINT 
W"-5 COt-l~lEltl~ 
MOMS DAIL~ 
WROI'IG A.G~IN! 
PRt.D\cnot\c:.. 
11-\E 1'\.A~£\S 
71/0SE S\JRE 
C'lS'I\Q\lSl'{ 1-l,r._ljt_ 
C0\-1\'C. \~\J't. 
~Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-9
1\0 \NJ1.\JtNct. 
ON ME.' 
ACROSS 
1 Vulgar in language 
7 Lollipop 
13 Cure-all 
14 Sang like Bing 
16 By means of nature 


GARY LARSON 
SPIN JOHN MONKS 

Nomr.Oft~t&.t IAZNr lt\ARY.S Root Beer Chugging, Finger Painting, Pie Eating HOGSTOCK APRIL 21-26 April 25, at Stepan Field llam to 2pm THE TIME HAS COME Mud Pits, Picnic, Campus Bands 
NEO•GEO Campus Challen~:e April 24, at Theodores llam to 5pm The Ouest for the Crown April 24-25 
Golf Tournament, Tricycle Race, Tug of War 
ReCeSs April 24, at Stepan Center 9pm to 12 am 
46 Math course, for 12 Maintained one's 
short brakes 48 Hebrew letters 13 Warless periods 49 Military cap 15 Electrical energy 50 Oscar or Tony machine 52 Baby talk 17 Softened the sound 53 Whip of 54 Petroleum, e.g. 22 Live together 
(2 wds.) 23 Food fishes 57 Slander 26 Prefix: wing 58 Pointed beards 27 Himalayan goats 59 Writ of execution 30 Shoshonean Indian 60 Mr. Pyle, et al. 32 Genetic material 
34 Boise farm product? (2 wds .)

DOWN 
35 Trigonometric ratio 1 Actor Tony 36 Not in formed 2 Opposite 37 Of the roof of the 3 Parachutes, with mouth 
out JB Thespian 4 "God's Little -" 39 Oi11111er, said of 5 Zodiac sign tearful eyes 6 Famous golfer 40 Pencils, in Peru 
(2 wds.) 41 Banishes 7 Emotional dis-44 Garter, e.g.
plays 47 Unrefined 8 Coffee maker 49 Jane Fonda movie 9 Small beds 51 Slip a Mickey to 
10 Australian tree 53----rubber dweller 55 Chemical prefix 11 Increase in size 56 Actor Jack ---­
LECTURES 

7:45 p.m. Workshop Session 1: The State, Markets, and Development, "Post-Socialism Transition from a Development Economics Point of View," Lance Taylor, M.I.T. "Markets and States: Against Minimalism," Paul Streeten, Boston University. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
SATURDAY 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

I 
i 
J 
Sports 
• 
page 28 
DAVE 
DIETEMAN 
And now a word from... 


Is Rosenthal's character suitable for Notre Dame? 
Forget the ides of March. 

If you're an Irish athlete or coach, the ides of April are far more deadly. 
Just one year ago, Digger Phelps "resigned" after two decades as Notre 
Dame's head basketball coach. 
Why? The athletic department, and its director, was concerned with the level of fan support. (Read: money). 
This year. Irish Athletic Director Dick (he prefers to be called that) Rosenthal did his best Brutus and Cassius routine in assassinating the wrestling program. 
The reasons? 

Wrestling does not "accurately rep­resent the interests of the student body" and is the only varsity sport that lacks an intramural counterpart. 
Money, if we are to believe the athletic department and its propaganda machine, was not an issue. 
Yeah, right. And money is not an issue in insurance fraud. 
The details of the disintegration of the wrestling program are not as important as the character of its architect, Mr. Rosenthal. 
The ancient Greeks had a keen sense of the fact that the character of a person was what mattered. Situations were secondary. A certain type of person, given any environment, would get himself into a characteristic situation. 
This is precisely the case with Mr. Rosenthal. 
A basketball player turned banker tu'rned athletic director, his career at Notre Dame has been marred by fishy happenings. 
Three such happenings stand out in particular: the NBC deal. the removal of Digger, and the execution of the wrestling program. 
Perhaps the most notable of these-and the one for which he and Father E. William Beauchamp suffered the greatest amount of national serutiny-was the signing of the notorious NBC contract. 
Perhaps the least objectionable of these-at least in some cirdes-was the removal of Digger Phelps. 
Yet for several reasons, the most alarming of these is by far the wrestling decision. 
•The timing of the decision was ex­traordinarily poor. With their athletic careers at Notre Dame ended April 10, wrestlers with an interest in transferring were left with only five (as in more than four and less than six) days to contact, apply, be accepted to, and be offered seholarships by other schools. 
Never mind that most schools had already filled their recruiting classes for the season. Could it be that the athletic dirP.ctor of a major university did not know these deadlines were approaching? 
see AD/page23 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Baseball takes on Butler 
see page 26 
•Softball looks to arouse bats 
see page 24 
•SMC tennis 
see page 25 
•Daugherty's 40 leads Cavs 
see page 20 
~------------------------------~ 
Irish lacrosse team needs two wins to get NCAA bid 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team takes the first of two steps towards an NCAA bid when it faees Ohio State Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish must win their final two games against the Buckeyes and then Michigan State on May 1 to capture the West regional bid which carries a twelfth seed. 
The first of those games places the Irish against the speedy Buckeyes. David Blue leads the team with 37 points highlighted by 25 goals, and combines with Brian Williams, Jerry Nigro. and Tom Holzer to give the Buckeyes four players with over thirty points. 
Goalkeeper Russ Salk has started every game for Ohio State between the pipes. His .615 save percentage is re­spectable, and his 8-3 record as a starter is impressive. 
Of the three loses suffered by the Buckeyes, one came at the hands of Ohio-Wesleyan, a team the Irish trounced 11­
5. The Bishops could never get started offensively against Notre Dame, managing only 34 shots. The Buckeyes lagged on the offensive end against Ohio­Wesleyan, hitting only eight shots to the Bishops ten. 
One thing missing from Notre Dame since its meeting with Ohio-Wesleyan is senior captain Chris Nelson. The midfielder will be missing from the lineup due to an ejection he received in Monday's matchup with Denver. 
"Chris is not only a captain, but the inspirational leader as far as us middies are con­cerned," said fellow midfielder Willie Sutton. 
The loss of Nelson hurts especially considering the Buckeyes rely on their speed and transition to victimize opponents. The Irish will need strong stick handling 
Friday, April 24,1992 

Buckeyes pressure attack. home crowd which may be 
"They (Ohio State) trys to on hand to support the Irish. run and force the issue to The game starts at 3:00, create some transition," right after the condusion of added Sutton. "Losing Chris the Blue-Gold game, and a hurts. but we are confident number of fans could stay to that some of the young guys support the lacrosse team. 
Favorites win in bookstore's wet Sweet 16 
BY MARK MCGRATH 
Sports Writer 

Despite the heavy rain, Bookstore Basketball completed the Sweet 16 and today it will enter the round of eight. 
"I think we played like the elements," commented Ray Griggs of Just Chillin'. "We were not able to do what we wanted to with the slippery court." 
Top-seeded Tequila White Lightning XI advanced rather handily, defeating Drive By Shooting 21-11. Just Chillin', paced by Grigg's nine points, beat Salubrious & Callipigous, 21-11. 
"We played like the weather," said Joe Fulton of Just Chillin'. "We played sloppily. We rely on our speed and the rain reduced the number of good cuts we could get." 
"Considering the weather conditions," commented Griggs, "we were lucky. Hopefully, we will play better tomorrow." 
There were a number of close games. The first involved Frank Drebbin and the 'Cocks and Bitter. Frank Drebbin was led by Irish football co-captains Rick Mirer and Demetrius DuBose together with Bryant King, George Poorman and Tim Ryan. 
The game was close from the outset. Once the rain began, the game became sloppy. The two teams had trouble dribbling and cutting because of the puddles on the court. In the end, DuBose was able to lead his team (7 pts) to a 21-19 victory. ­
"I think we played terribly," said DuBose. "I just hope we play tough against Tequila tomorrow." 
Ebony Side of the Dome, sponsored by Black Alumni Of Notre Dame (BAND). was involved in a tight game as well. Ebony was able to balance the scoring and come out with a 21-16 win over Crime Dogs. For Ebony, LaRon Moore, Greg Midgett and Marlon Crook scored five apiece. Martin Somerville chipped in four and Owen Smith chipped in two. 
"It was a rough game," commented Somerville. "It was hard because we rely on our speed and defense and the weather affected our play." 
"However, it was good," added Somerville, "because we were able to work on a set dffense. In the future we will be able to use this practice to our advantage." 
Another close game involved third­seeded The Gauchos. They added Irish basketball player Keith Tower to their line-up and got five from him in a win over the Fighting Kernals who were paced by Russ Allegrette's nine points. The Gauchos continue to be led by Rob Vazquez who scored six while Mike Toner added five. Dave Bose and Pete DiGiovanni chipped in three and two respectively to round out the scoring for The Gauchos. 
The final close one was between Bridget's and All the President's Men. Bridget's jumped out to 11-6 halftime lead only to see the lead dwindle to two. Bridget's was Jed by Jaek Donahue's 9 points and Ed Larkin's eight. In the end it was the younger Bridget's team winning 21-16 to eliminate Monk's team from the tourney. 
"I think the game was a blast," said Donahue. "I was so excited to guard Monk that I called my family last night 
see BOOK/page 18 

Zurcher, Irish close season at Bloomington 

The observer/Jake Peters 
Junior Ron Rosas and the rest of the Irish tennis squad invade Bloomington this weekend to take on the Hoosiers. It will be Notre Dame's last regular season contest. 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Andy Zurcher has never been one to step down from a challenge. At Ponderosa High School in Denver, he won not one, not two, but three state 
championships-two in tennis and  one  
as  the starting point guard  on  the  
basketball team .  

Nowadays he owns a 3.51 GPA, is ranked 65th in collegiate tennis in singles, and has been a solid performer for the ninth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team all year long at number-two singles and doubles. 
This weekend. as the Irish travel to Bloomington to meet Indiana in their final match of the year before the NCAA Championships, Zurcher will be tested once again. 
Not only will the junior be facing a player that was ranked as high as 63rd two weeks ago, Chris Decker. but he has also had to overcome a nagging knee injury over the past week. Add to that 
see TENNIS/page23 








