The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 21 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC ranked second among Midwest colleges 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR 
Saint Mary's Editor 
For the sixth consecutive year, Saint Mary's College has been chosen among "America's Best Colleges" in U.S. News and World Report's annual higher education survey, ranking second among Midwest regional universities and colleges. 
The survey rated Saint Mary's first in faculty resources and second in student satisfac­tion among the approximately 130 colleges and universities in the Midwest regional category. 
Saint Mary's Vice-President and Dean of Faculty, Dorothy Feigel said, "I can't imagine any better sets to score that high 
in." 
"First in faculty resources comments about the quality of faculty, which is the core of the institution," Feigel added. "Second in student satisfaction is the outcome (of the faculty's efforts)." 
Saint Mary's also rated fifth in financhtl resources, eighth in academic reputation and 24th in student selectivity. 
The College received high ratings for graduating students within a five-year period, fi­nancial support and academic reputation. 
Last year, U.S. News rated Saint Mary's third among schools in its category. In pre­vious editions of the survey, the College was ranked fourth (1990), seventh (1989), sixth (1988), and seventh (1987). 
Saint Mary's is grouped among the institutions that generally award more than half of their bachelor's degrees in two or more occupational or professional disciplines, and combine the professional pro­grams found at large state uni­versities with the intimate set­tings of small liberal arts col­leges. 
The survey's top 15 in the Midwest regional category are: 
1. 
Illinois Wesleyan University 

2. 
Saint Mary's 

3. 
Valparaiso 


4. 
Michigan Technological University 

5. 
DePaul University (Ill.) 

6. 
Butler 

7. 
Creighton University (Neb.) 

8. 
St. Norbert College (Wis.) 



9. 
John Carroll University (Ohio) 


see Ranking I page 4 


Faculty committee involved in planning University's future 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
Associate News Editor 
The faculty and administra­tion made the first step this summer to include the faculty in strategic planning for the University's future, according to John Borkowski, professor of psychology at Notre Dame and Faculty Senate representative. 
As a result, an advisory committee to the Provost for academic planning was formed, Borkowski said. 
The summer meetings were held in order to address the is­sues raised last spring when the Faculty Senate proposed a vote of "no confidence" in University President Father Edward Malloy. 
The summer's meetings in­cluded O'Meara, Malloy, five representatives appointed by Malloy and seven representa­tives from the Faculty Senate. 
All provisions in an agree­ment drawn up last year by a group of faculty and adminis­tration members were met, ex­cept one requiring the conven­ing of a committee to address the issues of a University forum, a President's Advisory Council and the involvement of the faculty in strategic planning for the University's future. 
All three issues were ad­dressed at the summer meet­ings, but the two proposals for a forum and a President's Ad­visory Council were dismissed, accoring to Borkowski. 
Barry denounces liberal suicide policy ln speech 
By THERESA ALEMAN .. Citing various historical· in­News Writer stances dating back to "pre-lit· erate society," Barry said that 
People who espouse a liberal all suicides are "a failure to suicide policy are the recognize the value of human absurdists of the twentieth life/' century, according to Father He described modern sui­Robert Barry of the University cides as "panicked reaetltms of Illinois. · iil • t~ ~hat victims pereejy~ as 
Fr. Barry spoke Friday in the overwhelming circumstances~·· Notre Dame Law School on the Barry also condemnt:ld the rationality, morality and aeti(Jns of Dr. Kevorkian &nd practicality of assisted suicide his modern suicide machine, in his speech titled, "The sayi:ng that 
the pu Problems and Paradoxes of .doctors ls to preserve Assisted S~cide.B ofth.eir patients; 
Barry said that subscriber · gt9 to a liberal suicide policy a bi "acting contrar:fto the Ameri-. oritl.." •. can belief of freedom." Barty added that most 
According to Barry, the deci-''assisted suicide victims are sion to commit suicide is "not the sick, disabled and handi­a free one" because people capped; people who have be­stricken with suicidal tenden-come a burden to others." cies have their freedom He stressed the urgency for "radically constricted by either m()re ~tringent laws regl).rding emotional or physical pain." suic~de assists, insisting that 
He added, "Suicides are the their continuation will lead to direct result of society's failure carte blanche approval of "the to provide hope." assassination of the Sick and 
tbtt<lespE~ra.te. "· 

The faculty committee, while its exact composition and size are still undetermined, will not be a budgetary committee. The rest of the details on the .com­mittee will be worked out in meetings this fall. 
As an advisory committee, the committee will have no au­thority in University decision­making. Its sole capability will be offering the Provost recom­mendations which can either be dismissed or accepted. 
According to O'Meara, such a committee is important. "If you keep ignoring the people who are advising you, they will eventually stop offering you ad­vice." 
O'Meara added that the dis­course that has occurred thus 
far has benefitted everyone in­volved and has been essential in keeping the University moving forward. 
"There is a real concern on the faculty for the problems fac­ing the students," he said. 
He added that the accessibilty of courses, the intellectual life of the students and the size of the faculty are all issues in which the faculty wants to have a part in deciding in the future of the University. 
An interim report of the summer meetings' results will be released once further details have been ironed out, according to Paul Conway, ND associate professor of finance and chair of the Faculty Senate. 
Last spring's no confidence proposal followed Malloy's re­jection of a proposal that would have increased faculty repre­sentation on the Academic Council, and the Board of Trustee's violation of an aca­demic article stating the faculty shall have the opportunity to review an officer before that officer is installed. 
The violation occurred when the Board reappointed O'Meara before a faculty review. 
After O'Meara addressed a number of issues at an April 8 Senate meeting, members de­cided to withdraw the proposal for a vote of "no confidence." 

French voters decide on future of European economic, political union 
PARIS (AP) -Its allies watching anxiously, France voted Sunday in a referendum that will determine whether Western Europe strides toward or steps back from closer politi­cal and economic union. 
Defeat of the union treaty could unleash renewed turmoil in world financial markets, damage the stature of French and other European leaders who promoted the accord and force the European Community into a fundamental reassess­ment of its future. 
Voters decided whether France should ratify the so­called Maastricht treaty, de­signed to unite the 12-nation EC in common economic, foreign and defense policies and a single currency by 1999. 
The referendum was widely viewed as having more interna­tional ramifications than any election in French history, although it did not threaten the EC itself. 
Voters were asked a single question: "Do you approve the bill submitted to the French people by the president of the republic authorizing the ratifi­cation of the treaty on Euro­pean union?" 
Backers say the treaty would help transform the trading bloc of 338 million people into a po­litical and economic super­power that could better com­pete with the United States and Japan. Opponents say France would lose control over eco­nomic and immigration policies. 
At 5 p.m. (11 a.m. EDT), three hours before polls were to close, 56.6 percent of France's 
38.3 million registered voters had cast ballots -below the 
70.1 percent figure at the same stage of the 1988 presidential election. 
Projections were expected within minutes, and fairly comprehensive results within hours, although the official re­sult was expected no earlier than Monday, after ballots in overseas departments wer·e counted. 
The referendum had been considered too close to call. The last polls before a one-week ban prior to the balloting showed voters about evenly split with many people still undecided. 
Rejection by France, which had been the driving force for unity along with Germany, would doom the Maastricht treaty, reached in December in the Dutch town by that name. 
Danish voters rejected the treaty in June, but the Irish ap­proved it. The other nine EC countries have or plan to ratify the treaty in their parliaments, although there are increasing calls for public votes. 
A "yes" victory in France would keep Maastricht alive, but the closely contested cam­paign and recent currency crisis in Europe have raised serious doubts about whether the process can proceed without an overhaul. 
J' 
c.~' I 
Monday, September 21 , 1992 
FORECAST 
70 percent chance of 


The Observer 
• 
WARM STATIONARY 
~~~ ~EZ3~ 
SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 

Odd donations arrive at relief center 
• WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -Several boxes of fur coats and ~n.ow b~ots, 60,000 condoms, six pallets of cheap fortified wme and one "abdomenizer" were among some of the odd donations that have arrived at the Hurricane Andrew relief center. Too much bottled water also flowed in after service was restored and contamination was contained. Several cases of 40­proof MD 20-20 grape, orange and grapefruit wine,known as "Mad Dog" to its users, along with cases of beer and at least one box of fried pork rinds also have come in. Relief authorities decided not to send intoxicants to storm-reeling victims. The condoms were donated to public health organizations. 
150 million fewer malnourished 
• WASHINGTON-There are 150 million fewer malnourished people in poorer countries than two decades ago .despite famine in Africa, U.N. food experts report. Despite the addition of 1.8 billion humans over !he last 30 years, the number of well-fed people has mcreased, says the report "Food and Nutrition: Creat­ing a Well-fed World." Average food available rose from 2,290 calories per day per person in 1961 to 2 700 calories in 1990, it says. "Right now, there's en~ugh food to feed everyone, if in fact it could get to the pe~ple wh~ need it," John R. Lupien, director of the Umted NatiOns Food and Agricultural Organization said in an interview about the report. ' 
~~=::~::::;;-;;;;;;;;;;-;;;;;;;;-;;;;;;;;;;-;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;__________d
Of INTEREST 
N~/SMC Ri~ht t~ Life _will be holding an organi­zational meetmg this evenmg in the Hayes-Healy audi­torium (Room 122) at 7:30 p.m. A brief video will be shown in addition to a discussion of upcoming events. ND Co-Dependents Anonymous (CODA) is holding a twelve-step recovery program for behavior learned in dysfunctional families. Meetings will be held in Sorin Hall Chapel on Tuesdays at 5:30 p.m. and Wednesdays at 7:30p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAv•s TRADING 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 236,121,000 +1.42 to 232.39 S&P COMPOSITE 

+3.00 to 422.93 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
++11.35 to 3,327.05
UNCHANGED 579 

GOLD 
+$3.20 to $351.50 oz 
SILVER 
+$0.081 to $3.847 oz 
rain today with highs in low to mid 70s. Low near 60. Clearing and cooler Tuesday with highs in mid 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City 
Anchorage 
Atlanta 
Bogota 
Boston 
Cairo 
Chicago 
Cleveland 
Dallas 
Delroil 
Indianapolis 
Jerusalem 
London 
Los Angeles 
Madrid 
Minneapolis 
Moscow 
Nashville 
New York 
Paris 
Philadelphia Rome Seattle South Send Tokyo Washington. D.C. 
H  L  
45  38  
84  69  
68  37  
84  70  
88  66  
74  42  
73  50  
95  71  
75  46  
77  47  
82  63  
64  59  
89  64  
90  63  
59  40  
63  50  
83  67  
76  69  
68  52  
86  74  
88  64  
72  53  
73  62  
72  64  
86  71  


INDIANA 
Bomb exalodes outside ISU dorm 
CAMPUS 
Two ~mjors recjeve Murphy Award 
•.NO RE DAME, ln.-Lisa Ann Dvorachek and Michael Kaley, juniors at the University of Notre Dame a~e the recipients of the 1991-92 recipients of th~ Michelle Murphy Award for outstanding students in the Univerrsity's international studies program in Angers, France. The two were nominated by their classmates and selected by the director of the Angers program, Rev. Ge~a:d C<~:rro~.l. for their "friendship, generous love and spintuahty. The award is given annually in memory of Michelle Murphy, a member of the Notre Dame class of 1984, who died in a car accident in January 1983. 
l!~~~i 
A foreign study in Cuernavaca, Mexico information ses~ion will be held at 4:15 Tuesday at the Center for Social Concerns. Two ND students who studied there last spr~g will speak on the semester-long program. Collegiate Jazz Festival is currently being reviewed by a student government campus programming co?I?Iittee. All students, faculty, and staff with op1mons of the event and/or suggestions for its im­provement should contact Catharine Danahy, Jennifer Avegno, Dave Cathcartk or Margaret Haugh. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• In 1866: English novelist H.G. Wells was born in Bromley, Kent. 
• In 1897: The New York "Sun" ran its famous "Yes 
Virginia, t~er~ .is a .santa ~laus" editorial that answered eight~ year-old V1rgm1a 0 Hanlon s letter about Santa's existence. 
• In 1937: "The Hobbit," by J.R.R. Tolkien, was first pub­
lished. 
• 
In 1949: The People's Republic of China was proclaimed by its Communist leaders. 

• 
In 1989: Hurricane Hugo struck the coast of South Carolina with top winds of 139 miles per hour. 


The Observer/Nora Duncan 
Relaxing on the quad 
Freshmen Clare Nolan and Clara Finneran study in front of Nieuwland Science Hall. 


ATLANTA (AP) -Alcohol and marijuana use among teen­agers are far above the levels set in national health goals for the year 2000, and it's not known yet whether teens are cutting down on drinking and smoking, researchers say. 
Surveys last year of U.S. high school students showed that almost half drink alcohol, one­fourth smoke and one-tenth use marijuana, the Centers for Disease Control reported Thursday. 
The health agency plans to use the findings to track 
progress toward national goals of reducing the number of teen­agers who endanger their health with cigarettes, alcohol and drugs. 
Dr. Laura Kann of the CDC's division of adolescent and school health said health offi­cials won't be able to assess the nation's progress toward health goals set in 1990 for a couple of years. 
"We're really at the begin­ning," she said. 
The CDC reported findings from a 1991 national survey of 12,272 high school students 
Club Column 
SEPTEMBER 21, 1992 
1) All Clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for their first semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time. And remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
2) Notre Dame Council On International Business Development (Fund Raising Division) meeting Thursday. 9/24 at 7:00p.m. Lafortune's Dooley room. (Internships Division) meets Sundays, 8p.m. on the 2nd floor of Lafortune. (Professional Development Division) meets Sundays, 6p.m. in 105 O'Shaughnessy. (Citizen Democracy corps) meets Mondays, ?p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. (Financial Division) meets Tuesdays, 8:15p.m. in the ISO Lounge. (Marketing Division) meets Tuesdays, 7:15p.m. in the ISO Lounge. 
3) Indiana student Legislature meeting Monday, 9/21 at 8:00 p.m. in Lafortune's Dooley Room. Mixer with snacks and drinks will be served. Officers elected. Everyone is welcomed. 
4) Campus Fellowship meeting on Friday, 9/25 at 7:30 p.m. in the Stanford/Keenan chapel. 
5) Technical Review engineering magazine meeting 9/21 at 7 p.m. in 218 Cushing Hall. 
6) Campus Bible Fellowship meeting Tuesday 7:00 p.m. in 303 Haggar. 
7) Medieval Club meeting Thursday, 9/24 at 7:30p.m. in the Medieval Institute (7th floor of library). 
8) Right to Life Group meeting Monday 9/21 at 7:30p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. 
9} Model United Nations meeting Monday 9/21 at 7 p.m. in 124 Hayes-Healy. Everyone is welcome to come join the club. 
10) Children of Mary invites anyone interested in praying the rosary every Monday-Friday at 4:30 in the Grace Chapel. 
11) Irish Outdoors meeting regarding fall trip to the Badlands, South Dakota on Wednesday, 9/23 in the Foster Room in LaFortune. For more information call Jeff at 283-2936. 
12) American Chemical Society meeting Tuesday. 9/22 at ?p.m. in 182 Stepan Chemistry Hall. All Chemistry and Biochemistry majors are encouraged to attend. 
13) The LUSO-Brazilian Club meeting Thursday 9/24 in the Oak Room at South Dining Hall at 7:30p.m.. Staff, faculty and students ar invited and encouraged to attend. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 5 p.m. on Thursday. 

~---~-------------~-~------------~--~~~-­
page 3 

The Observer 
Students at small colleges drink more, survey shows 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Stu­dents at small colleges drink more alcohol than their col­leagues at larger schools, a new study showed Friday. 
The study, based on a survey of more than 56,000 students, also found that students with low grades consume about three times as many drinks as those on the honor roll. 
Researchers from Southern Illinois University and the Col­lege of William and Mary ana­lyzed survey results collected on 78 campuses during the 1989-90 school year. 
Their report is intended to help campus leaders under­stand the frequency of drug and alcohol use as they design programs to combat substance abuse. 
"It's the largest sample that's ever been done," said re­searcher Cheryl Presley of Carbondale, Ill. "Here is the in­formation for them to make better decisions." 
The information about drinking on small campuses was particularly significant, said Presley and colleague 
Philip Meilman. 
At four-year schools with en­rollments of less than 2,500, students under 24 averaged seven drinks a week, compared to 4.59 drinks at campuses with 20,000 students or more. 
"Small schools tend to be lo­cated in rural environments where there is less to do, so people may turn to drinkiag more," Meilman said. "There's a tendency to conform to existing social norms." 
The study doesn't establish a direct link between drinking and low grades, but a relation­ship of some sort exists, the re­searchers said. 
The study found that students who were getting Ds and Fs were averaging nearly 11 drinks a week, while students with As were consuming 3.4 drinks. 
As expected, alcohol was popular on all the campuses: 86 percent of respondents said they used it in the last year, and 45 percent said they drank on a weekly or more frequent basis. 
Twenty-seven percent of stu­dents said they smoked mari-
Surveys report half of high school students drink 
plus 1991 surveys conducted by 33 states and cities. An average of 2,000 students were surveyed in each of the 33 sites, she said. The survey did not give a margin of error. 
The surveys showed 46 per­cent of students said they had drunk alcohol at least once in the previous 30 days. Twenty­four percent said they had smoked at least once in the previous 30 days and 11 per­cent said they had used mari­juana at least once in the previ­ous month. 
"We've got a lot of kids re­porting tobacco, alcohol and other drug use," Ms. Kann said. "We need to give kids the skills to avoid all these types of drugs." 
By the year 2000, national education goals call for only 15 percent of teen-agers to be smoking daily when they reach age 20, 12 percent of kids ages 12-17 to be drinking and 3 per­cent of the age group to be us­ing marijuana. 
The state surveys showed that alcohol use in 32 of 33 sites was at least two times higher than the national goal. 
AIR FORCE ROTC UNITS FILLED TO CAPACITY 
NOT! 
Don't believe everything you hear. The Air Force continues to seek outstanding students to fill future officer requirements. See yourself becoming a leader, graduating from college as an Air Force officer with fully developed qualities of character and managerial ability. Notice, too, the opportunities. Like eligibility for scholarship programs that can pay tuition, textbooks, fees... even $100 in tax-free income each academic month. Visualize a crisp uniform that reflects pride in yourselfand your ability to accept challenge. Get the picture? Now make the call! Captain Andrysiak 239-6634 
•AIM HIGH-AIR FORCE• 
FiiEiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiEiiiiiliiiiiliiiiiliiiiiliiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiii!iliiiiiii!iii~iiiiiiiiiiililiiiiiiiiiiii;;'l 

Ha P P Y 
juana in the past year, and 6.1 percent said they used cocaine, 
the survey found. 
The survey of students at 56 four-year schools and 22 com­munity colleges also found: 
•About 
42 percent of students said they went on a binge at least once in the past two weeks, consuming five or more drinks. 

Broken down by gender, 14 percent of men and an equal percentage of women said they hinged only once. Men, how­ever, were more likely than women to have several binges in a two-week period. 

•Some 
66 percent of all stu­dents wanted alcohol available at social events on or near campus, but only 13 percent wanted drugs. Among daily drinkers, 49 percent said they would like to have drugs avail­able. 


Presley and Meilman said the report will be the first of many on drug and alcohol use at col­leges. 
Man walks into school, opens fire 
HOUSTON (AP) -A man ap­
parently upset about his son's 
grades walked into an elemen­
tary school Friday with two 
semiautomatic guns and 
opened fire, wounding two po­
licemen before surrendering, 
authorities said. 
Terrified children scrambled 
for cover or fled the Piney Point 
Elementary School campus 
when the man, dressed in black 
and armed with a hunting 
knife, the guns and four 
ammunition clips, walked into 
the school. 
No children were hurt. About 
650 attend the school. 
The gunman, Calvin Charles 
Bell, apparently went on the 
rampage because he was dis­
traught over his second-grade 
son's failing grades, school 
district spokeswoman Sarah 
Smith said. 
Bell, 44, exchanged words 
with a secretary just before 
class began and fired a shot 
into a wall, police said. He then 
fired at a police officer who 
happened to be at the school 
for a drug education program, 
police said. 
He walked down the hallway, 
firing as children and teachers 
fled or barricaded themselves 
in classrooms, then went out­
side to a portable classroom, 
where the second officer was 
shot. 
He surrendered after poliGe 
surrounded the portable class­
room. 
Both officers were hospital­
ized in good condition. One had 
gunshot wounds to the shoul­
der and thigh and the other, 
who was wearing a bulletproof 
vest, had a gunshot wound inir a y the back, authorities said. 

L 
B th d Bell was charged with nu­merous counts of attempted 
• capital murder of a police offi­
1 S Q cer and aggravated assault. He was being held in lieu of $150,000 bond, police
Love' 
spokesman Robert Hurst said. 
L 
Bell, an unemployed artist with no police record, recently 0 quit taking medication for de­
pression, his sister, Evelyn, told KRTK-TV. 

·~-~---~ 
page 4 The Observer Monday, September 21 , 1992 

Commander's address TheObserver/JohnBingham 
Celia Schmalbach, commander of the Arnold Air Society at Notre Dame, introduces Dr. Kent Laudeman. Lau~e~an was the guest speaker at the POW/MIA Tri-Military Flag Retreat Ceremony held at the Library Aud1tonum. 
Ranking 
continued from page 1 
10. 
Milliken University (Ill.) 

11. 
Ohio Northern University 


12. 
University of Dayton (Ohio) 

13. 
Central College (Iowa) 

14. 
Calvin College (Mich.) 



15. 
University of St. Thomas (Minn.) 


Saint Mary's is the only women's college rated in the Midwest's top 15. 
"I think that may be a statement of how many women's colleges there are in the Midwest," Feigel said. "In the past, women's colleges have done very well in ratings." 
The ratings are based on a system that combines statistical data with the results of a U.S. News survey of academic repu­tations among 2,527 respond­ing college presidents, deans and admissions directors. A record 62 percent of the administrators contacted participated in the survey. 
A total of 1373 four-year schools were included in the survey. 
A school's overall rank was determined by scores for aca­demic reputation combined with data provided by the schools. Saint Mary's scored a 
94.7 on the 100-pt. scale. 
The statistics measured in­clude: 
•student body selectivity; 
•the degree to which the school financially supports a high quality, full-time faculty; 
•overall financial resources as determined by the total 1991 expenditure for instruction, student services and adacemic support (libraries, computers, administration) divided by total enrollment plus all other 1991 spending per student; and 
•level of student satisfaction based on the average percent­age of students in the 1983 to 1986 freshman classes who graduated within five years of enrollment. 
About 39 percent of the stu­dents receive an average of $1,799 in financial aid from the annual $16,000 tuition, room and board plan. 
How the ratings will affect the number of applicants in the future is difficult to say, accord­ing to Feigel. 
She added that although other applicant influences such as the reputation of graduates, word of mouth, VISA and fac­ulty calls can attract students, the rating "can only be posi­tive" since it is an "objective assessment" of the College. 

Indian police accused of brutalizing people 
NEW DELHI, India (AP) -A 930 miles south of New Delhi. human rights group has ac-The government says the cused the police in Prime Min-rebels, known as Naxalites, ister P.V. Narasimha Rao's killed 360 people, including 60 home state of systematically policemen, in 1991. . killing or torturing suspects Last week, Rao set in motion under the guise of fighting po-the creation of a human rights litical terrorism. commission to investigate al-
In a report released Sunday, leged abuses. The decision was the group Asia Watch accused applauded by intHrnational the police of "wanton lawless-human rights watchers who ness" in Andhra Pradesh, a have been critical of India's southern state of 67 million handling of secessionist rebel­people. lions and of its unrestrained po-
The government Press In-lice forces. formation Bureau said the Asia Asia Watch acknowledged Watch report was being studied that the Naxalites pose a secu­and refused further comment. rity threat. But it accused the 
The drought-prone state is state police and federal forces the center of a decade-old of colluding with "politically in­Communist movement claiming fluential landowners to assault to fight for poor farmers and murder peasants and tribal against feudalistic landlords. villagers in the name of fighting Hvderabad, the state capital, is terrorism." 
lJpcoming Events 
MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 21 HERTA DAUBLER-GMELIN Co-Cbair Social Democratic Party' 
Bundestag, Germany and member or Parliamentariaus for Global Action "GERMANY'S ROLE IN 

EUROPE AFfER UNIFICATION" 
12:30 p.m. Hesburgb Center Auditorium 
THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 24 JACKIE SMITH Graduate Student, Department or 
Govemmeot and lntemational Studies; Resean:h Assmaot, Kruc Imtitute "'FRAMED OR BE FRAMED': THE U.S. PEACE MOVEMENT, THE MEDIA AND NATIONAL SECURITY 
DEBA~" 
12:15 p.m. Conference Room 103 The Hesburgb Center 
Everyone Welcome 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAl
JJJ((f ~N~!~1~o:~?L:: 
UN envoy warns warlord against blocking troops 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) ­Freelance gunmen in heavily armed vehicles looted sacks of beans and sorghum just outside the capital city's port on Sunday -food meant for starving people. 
The heist took place in mid­afternoon and no attempt was made to hide it. In fact, the guards on top of the food trucks bantered with the gunmen. 
The convoy of about 10 relief trucks stopped a quarter of a mile from the port when half a dozen armed vehicles drove up, many with artillery guns and each carrying teen-agers waving rifles. 
Three black sacks of beans were tossed off one vehicle and three white sacks of sorghum off another. 
The operation was obviously well-planned: A man with a cart appeared instantly and trundled down the street with half the booty. The other three sacks were spirited into a compound, the entrance of which was right by the tree where the sacks were dumped. 
U.N. officials appealed again over the weekend to local war­lords to help curb the lawless­ness that is hindering food shipments meant for the up to 2 million Somalis who are in danger of starving. 
More than 100,000 Somalis already have died from the combined effects of famine and war. 
The United Nations has said port security is crucial because planes cannot deliver all of the 110,000 tons of food needed over the next 100 days to alle­viate the famine. 
Looting and banditry at Mo­gadishu port and the southern port of Kismayu have forced re­lief agencies to rely on more costly air shipments, but planes can only bring in about 20 tons daily. 
On Sunday, U.N. Special En­voy Mohamed Sahnoun told one warlord that he will be re­sponsible for thousands of star­vation deaths if he refuses to al­low more armed U.N. troops to protect relief shipments at ports. 
The warlord, Mohamed Farah Aidid, controls most of southern Somalia with his militia and opposes foreign intervention. 
On Saturday, Aidid said he did not want the U.N. force in­creased from 500 to the 3,500 authorized by the United Na­tions. The 500 troops already assembling in Somalia will be deployed at Mogadishu's port and airport. 
"If we do not have security arrangements in the other ports, we will not have food coming in," Sahnoun said. 
Relief organizations, he said, are "very, very reluctant" to operate without U.N. protection because of repeated attacks and the slayings of several Somali relief workers. 


HeavenlyDinner Deal 

Every Sunday to Wednesday Spaghetti fi Tomato Sauce 
$2.99 
per person 
If thou has not tasted our delicious Italian offerings, here's a temptation: our very own Spaghetti and Classic Tomato Sauce Dinner. This sinful portion includes homemade Minestrone soup or crisp salad and devilishly hot loaves of San Francisco sourdough bread. An enlightening offer good Sundays thru Wednesdays until October 28, 1992. 
m
... 
Spaghetti Warehouse 
~ Gn•at Italian Food. All-American Fun. ~ 
------~ 
501 North Niles · In The Works Hotel • 232-4414 
Good Sunday rhrough Wednesday, unril Ocrober zB, 1991, dinner only. 
Not good with ocher discounts, coupons or specials. 

-~--~~~----~~----~---------~--·--~--c-~---------~----­
--------------------~----~w.--~--~-­

Monday, September 21, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Non-ethnic Estonians excluded from elections 
TALLINN, Estonia (AP) -makes me feel like I'm not a Voters in the tiny Baltic state of human being ... like nobody is Estonia chose a parliament and interested in my opinion," she president Sunday in an election said. that barred non-ethnic Estoni­While angering Russian­ans -about 40 percent of the speakers and neighboring Rus­population -from participat­sia, the citizenship issue did not ing. play a major role in the sub­
After more than four decades dued campaign. Candidates fo­of Soviet domination, Estonians cused on the deteriorating are counting on new leaders to Estonian economy and on speed up economic and social whether former Communist reforms and widen the break Party bureaucrats should be with former Soviet rule. allowed to stay in government. 
In addition to president, vot­The presidential front-run­ers chose 101 parliament ners were Arnold Ruutel, the members. There were no early current chairman of the par­turnout figures. Election offi­liament, and former Foreign cials said they expected final Minister Lennart Meri. results on Monday. Polls have suggested that 
"I fell good about voting to­Ruutel, the former Communist day.... I'm sick of politics, but I Party leader, would not get the know that this is important to 50 percent majority needed to Estonia's future," said Hena avoid a parliamentary runoff Klesment, a 70-year-old with the second-place finisher, painter. expected to be Meri. 
About 600,000 people -res-Observers say the flamboyant 
Meri, once a writer and film di­
idents of pre-World War II 
rector, likely would win theEstonia and their descendants 
presidency if a new, more
-were eligible to vote. 
moderate parliament makes the That excluded about 350,000 choice.
of Estonia's 400,000 ethnic The popular FatherlandRussians, Ukrainians and 
Coalition,
others. Ethnic Estonians say a center-right al­
liance, advocates fast-pacedmost Russian-speakers immi­reforms, the expulsion of
grated illegally after the Soviet former Communists and more
Union occupied Estonia in 
restrictive citizenship laws. 
1940. The state regained indepen­The other leading coalition,dence following the failed So­the Popular Front, has calledviet coup in August 1991. 
for more cautious reforms andAt polling station No. 33 in a conciliatory policies toward thesuburb of the capital, turnout Russian-speaking population. 
was steady on Sunday morning. But Ziniade Matveyeva, ·a 55­
Fifteen political parties
year-old ethnic Russian, angrily 
fielded candidates, includingwatched the voting from her one that wants to establish a
fruit stand down the block. 
monarchy with Swedish Prince"I've lived here for 40 years, Carl Philip. 
and not being able to vote 

Happy Birthday, Hester! 
Love, The Cutest HP's On Campus 


The Observer/Tom Zipprich 

Strike up a tune 

Security Council ousts Yugoslavia from U.N. 
All Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Students Arthur Andersen presents 
Druglord tells 
police to avoid 
his family 
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP) ­Fugitive druglord Pablo Esco­bar warned police that if they try to kidnap anyone in his fam­ily, he will retaliate. 
In a letter sent to Judicial Po­lice Chief, Colonel Luis Mon­tenegro, that was made public Thursday in Bogota's El Tiempo newspaper, Escobar said that he had heard of a police plan to kidnap his elderly father as a way of getting information about his whereabouts. 
Escobar's letter was made public Thursday in Bogota's El Tiempo newspaper. 
"If any of my loved ones dis­appear, I won't hesitate to take action against the families of those responsible," Escobar wrote. "My loved ones are un­touchable." 
Escobar's letter was undated and El Tiempo did not say when it had been received by Montenegro. It is now report­edly in the hands of the Attor­ney General along with other papers that were confiscated from Escobar's luxury prison after his July 22 escape. 
Police told El Tiempo that Escobar's accusations are un­founded. They said that all their operations pertaining to the druglord are lawful and have been authorized by the Attor­ney General's office. 

SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Serb gunners shelled three suburbs Sunday shortly before a plane carrying senior U.N. military officers landed at Sarajevo airport. 
Two people were reported injured in a mortar attack on a funeral ceremony for 400 Bosnian Muslim soldiers at­tended by hundreds at Sara­jevo's Lions cemetery. The mourners crouched at the gravesites before fleeing for safety. 
The latest fighting between Bosnian loyalist forces and Serbs is a battle for territory to strengthen their bargaining positions at peace talks in Geneva. An artillery barrage on Saturday set the parliament building on fire. 
In New York, the U.N. Secu­rity Council voted Saturday to recommend that Yugoslavia's 
U.N. voting rights be suspended to punish the country for its role in Bosnia's war. The General Assembly must ratify the suspension. 
In Geneva meanwhile, Mus­lim, Croat and Serb leaders signed an agreement to protect relief flights and land convoys, and U.N. officials said food air­lifts to Bosnia's besieged capital could resume this week. The flights were suspended on Sept. 
3 when an Italian relief plane was shot down, killing all four crew members. 
A plane carrying U.N. Gen. Philippe Morillon and other of­ficers to lay the groundwork for an expanded U.N. force in Bosnia-Herzegovina landed be­fore noon Sunday, U.N. spokesman Adnan Abdelrazek said. 
Morillon would likely lead the expanded force, approved by the United Nations last week, of some 5,000 to 6,000 troops to safeguard convoys and estab­lish a land corridor for humani­tarian aid. 
Abdelrazek said the safe ar­rival of Morillon's plane could allow U.N. officials to begin re­lief flights as soon as Monday. 
Serb forces continued to shell the western suburb of Stup and surroundings overnight and into Sunday, according to Mustafa Hajrulahovic, com­mander of the 1st Bosnian army corps. 
The Serb capture of Stup would isolate a pocket of Bosnian defenders to the southwest and dominate the road to the airport. If govern­ment forces strengthen their hold, they could link up with troops outside Serb-beseieged Sarajevo. 
-a live television broadcast from our 
Center for Professional Education 
Topic: Adapting to the First Year in the Business World 
Thursday, September 24 

ARTHUR
6:00 pm -CCE Auditorium 

ANDERSEN
Refreshments to follow .~< ·.THUR ANPERSEN & Co sc
Dress is casual 

Aclwi: wqile ofFreu:b lllllalimfmn 1923. 
ABBOIT &COSTELLO MEIT FRANKENSI'EIN 9:00 
The !atci the A l Clelia, !llliumr,!Ill bwnar. 
TUESDAY SFPT. 22 AND GOD CREATED WOMAN 7:00 
BrigiUe Bard11tm in RCF" Vidim'1l!lellllllble 1956 film. DAYOFWRATH 9:00 
in 1613, IYOIIq! WCIIIIII illlied fnitbcnftin llemnm. 
FRIDAY cl SATURDAY SEPT. 25 &26 
MEDITERRANEO 



,........------~~~--~------~-~----------­
page 6 The Observer Monday, September 21,1992 

You Are Invited to Attend 
''Strategic Focus'' 
A Procter & Gamble Presentation on the Key to Keeping Businesses Strong Forever 


F~aturing 
ike Milligan 
S~fttor Vice President 
Monday, September 21 6:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Reception  Meet P&G managers from:  
immediately following.  • Finance  
Food and beverage  • Sales  
will be served.  • Management Systems  
Dress is casual.  • Product Development  
Students from  • Product Supply  
all majors welcome.  • Brand Management  


Monday, September 21, 1992 The ObseNer page 7 
ELECTION '92 

Family Leave Bill encourages discrimination, Bush says 
BASKING RIDGE, N.J. (AP) ­One day after Bill Clinton criti­cized him for opposing a family leave bill, President Bush said Friday the measure would en­courage a "subtle kind of dis­crimination" in which employ­ers would hire men rather than women. 
Bush chose an audience of business women to defend his record on issues ranging from parental leave and health in­surance to child care. The pres­ident received warm applause at the beginning and end of his speech, but the women sat in silence as he explained why he will veto the family leave bill. 
Although polls show Clinton ahead of Bush by 10 points or more, the disparity is even greater among women. Recent surveys show Clinton with a 16 to 18 percentage point lead over Bush among women, while the gap among men is far smaller. 
The family leave bill is similar to one Bush vetoed two years ago. It would require businesses with 50 or more employees to guarantee most workers up to 12 weeks leave without pay for a birth, an adoption or to care 

George Bush 
for a sick family member. 
Bush said that with the slug­gish economy, companies are struggling to stay afloat "and I don't want to load on more fed­eral mandates that will force them to lay off people." 
The president urged women to "think of the impact man­dated family leave has on hiring decisions. I know it's not supposed to happen, but how many employers will think, 'Why not hire a man instead of a woman? He won't leave to have a child. He won't leave to care for his family.' And this is illegal. And we must enforce the law. But mandated family leave could encourage this subtle kind of discrimination." 

Even before Bush spoke, the Clinton campaign issued a statement criticizing his veto plans. 
"The last time he ran for president, George Bush took a strong position on tax credits for child care -but he came down the other way," the cam­paign said. "Based on that equivocal statement on a workplace and family issue, it's no surprise that for almost four years George Bush's only word on family leave was 'Veto."' 
Bush spoke at AT&T corpo­rate headquarters in· central New Jersey. With 15 electoral votes, New Jersey is one of the battleground states that Bush and Clinton are struggling to win. 
The president called for "government policies that help men and women meet their re­sponsibilities at home and that means child care, it means family leave policies, it means child support enforcement, it means cheaper health care." 
He said he and Clinton offer "entirely different solutions" to the family leave problem. 


lndi 
a poll says Bush, cr running even 
. ·:·.·. ,:·, ·..::::.:.:....;.::::::~ih~:~l~tt~t1~m~~~it~;::::::: FORT WAYNE, Ind, (AP) -A Among the vice presidential new poll shovvs.President Ge-candidates, 46 percent of re­orge Bush and Democratic spondents found Democrat AI nominee Bill Clinton are run-Gore is better qualified to be ning dead evert in Indiana. president than Quayle, favored 
where a the 
hasn't won by 44 percent. Forty-two per· · race ~tit said Quayle is not ed to lead the C()1Jntry, 5 percent said G()re is 
's been closing "~"'...~~.r since July," said Ann M, DeLaney, executive director 
·of the Indiana Democratic Pa),'cy. ''I'd have been surprised 9.fllylfyou told me Clinton was ab,f!'ad. But Bush is faltering." 

One-third of Americans want Perot back in presidential race 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Some 34 percent of the respondents in a new poll say they would .like to see Ross Perot back in the presidential race, and 23 percent say they would vote for 
him. 
The figures, from a 

Newsweek magazine poll re­
leased Saturday, are another 
indication of the support the 
Dallas businessman retains. But 
60 percent said they would not 
vote for him, suggesting he was 
right when he said as he withdrew from active cam­paigning in July that he had concluded he could not win . 
About 1 7 percent of the re­spondents who said they would not vote for Perot said they had planned to support him until he dropped out of the race. 
Among those who said they would vote for Perot, respon­dents who said they would otherwise be for either Presi­dent Bush or Bill Clinton were about evenly divided between the two. 

On another topic, the poll indicated that Americans blame Bush rather than Clinton for failing so far to arrange debates -by more than a four-to-one margin. 
The Gallup Organization questioned 600 registered vot­ers by telephone last Tuesday, a time when the Clinton and Bush campaigns were trading charges about who was to blame for the lack of agreement on debates. 
The bipartisan commission on presidential debates has set dates for three presidential and one vice presidential debate ­beginning Tuesday for the presidential contenders in Michigan. But the Bush cam­paign rejected those arrange­ments and declared that if Clinton really wants to debate, his campaign will negotiate ar­rangements with the Bush camp. 
Asked who was more at fault, 49 percent of the poll respon­dents said Bush, 11 percent said Clinton, 11 percent said neither and 29 percent said they didn't know. 
How important would debates be in helping voters decide? Some 31 percent said very im­portant and 25 percent some­what important. The rest indi­cated the debates would be of little or no importance to them. 
Ft 1 r SL' n i o r '\ u r ~ i n g St u d L' n t s 

NURSING 

HORIZONS 
A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
October 16 & 17, 1992 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
The Future Nurses of Oz 


BREAKOUT SESSIONS 
• 
Financial Planning • Preparing for Your Job Search 

• 
Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't 

• 
State Boards: Are You Ready? 


Your $10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. 
Deadline for registration is October 9J 1992 
Calll-800-545-0357 for registration information and brochure. 
cry 
Nursing Horizons is sponsored by Mayo Center for Nursing Rochester, Minnesota 55905 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmaliVt' aclitm and t•qual OJ'/h.lrfrmityctlumtor tmd t'"'l'layer. A smukr-frc.'t' in.o;titution. 

L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------··----­



Gore accuses Republicans of offering false choice between jobs, environment 
SANDY HOOK, N.J. (AP) ­Democrat AI Gore said Satur­day the Republicans are pre­senting a "false and phony choice" between jobs and the environment. 
He said America can and must build its economy and clean up the environment at the same time. 
Gore spent Saturday hitting President Bush on one of his favorite campaign topics in an attempt to counter White House criticism that he is an environmental extremist. 
Later Saturday, Gore traveled to Wilmington, N.C., to shore up support for the Democratic ticket in a state where polls have shown a statistical dead­heat in the presidential race. 
He told about 1,500 people at a harbor-side rally that Bush and Quayle seem certain they will win North Carolina, but ''I'm not so sure they're right about that." 
Another four years of a Bush administration, Gore said, would result in continued politi­cal gridlock in Washington. 
"Do we want to really con­tinue the excuses and the deadlock and the delay?" he asked. "Make no mistake about it, if Bush and Quayle should ever happen to get four more years, nobody can tell me that they have any realistic basis for believing anything seriously 
AI Gore 

would change. 
"The deadlock will continue," Gore added. "We'd continue to have the excuses." 
In New Jersey, the Tennessee senator appeared with actor Christopher Reeve of "Superman" fame, who criti­cized what he called the Bush administration's "backward thinking" on environmental is­sues. 
Gore aides have said repeat­edly that they believe the envi­ronment to be a key concern of voters this year and Gore is chief spokesman for the Demo­cratic ticket on the issue. The Bush re-election campaign has in turn contended that Gore's ideas on cleaning up and pro­tecting the environment would cost millions of jobs. They also have criticized Bill Clinton, who leads the Democratic ticket, as having a weak environmental record as governor of Arkansas. 
Gore said the argument that a choice must be made between jobs and the environment "has to be rejected." 
"We can create jobs and ecp­nomic opportunity by leading the environmental revolution instead of dragging our feet and bringing up the rear," he said. 
Gore and Reeve spent about half an hour picking up trash along a littered New Jersey shore as part of a worldwide beach cleanup day. Both then spoke to a rally of about 300 people, mostly volunteers who had gathered to pick up debris. 
"This is beach cleanup day," Gore told the group. "Nov. 3 is going to be White House clean­out day." 
Both mocked Bush's 1988 pledge that he would be the "environmental president." Gore spoke of the "pitiful ex­cuse for environmental leaders that we now have in the Bush­Quayle White House." 
Reeve said, "We've been hav­ing four years of reaching out to you with these emotional promises and then taking away on the other hand, saying, 'no, no, government mustn't inter­fere .... The time has finally come to put that to an end." 

page 8 The Observer Monday, September 21, 1992 
Germany interest rates may continue to drop 

BONN. Germany (AP) -analyze what must be done in Germany has hinted at a fall in his own house." its interest rates, whose ascent Waigel was expected to re­was blamed for forcing Britain peat that position in Washing­and Italy from the European ton when he meets with finance . currency club and the ensuing ministers of the Group of Seven market chaos. industrialized countries this 
Germany's quarter-percent weekend, and with officials of cut on a key rate Monday failed the International Monetary to end the crisis. Shortly before Fund and World Bank on leaving Friday for a meeting in Tuesday. Washington of the world's leading economic nations, Fi­In a commentary in Bild nance Minister Theo Waigel newspaper on Friday, the fi­tantalizingly suggested rates nance minister wrote: "Interest could drop further. rates in Germany could fall 
further provided we continue 
Waigel also is defending on a meaningful course of Germany's strict monetary national belt-tightening." policy, rejected blame and sug­gested that those complaining However, his remarks ap­should clean up their own fiscal peared aimed more at opposi­mess. tion politicians and labor 
unions, and analysts said they 
"I don't think these accusa­doubted there would be any tions are fair," he said Thurs­significant drop in German in­day. "Everyone would do well to terest rates. 


Republican Congress expects change 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House Republican leader Bob Michel is a cinch to hang onto his lead­ership job after Election Day. but contests for other party posts could amount to a battle for the future and the soul of the GOP. 
That a new generation is taking over will be clear when the Republicans of the 103rd Congress gather at the Capitol in December to choose their leaders: 30 current GOP House members won't be there, either because of retirement or defeat in this year's primary elections. Just 39 of the current crop was in office when Michel first became minority leader in 1981. 
Michel. a paragon of old-style cooperative politics, is widely believed ready to call it quits after one more two-year term. 
"I think we are going to be seeing a changing of the guard," said a senior Republican source. who like most officials did not want to talk on the record about a topic that lawmakers regard as among the most sensitive. 
Lined up to take Michel's place is Newt Gingrich of Geor­gia. who now holds the No. 2 job of minority whip, and the contrast couldn't be more strik­ing. Where Michel is soothing. 
Gingrich is provocative. Michel prefers quiet negotiation; Gin­grich is given to confrontation. 
"I think he's an asset to the party," Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., said of Gingrich. Hyde himself is seeking a spot on the leadership ladder as head of the Republican Policy Committee. 
"He is confrontational, con­tentious," Hyde said of the Ge­orgian. "But we Republicans have been rolled over so often; even a puppy dog, when cornered, will fight back. He harpoons the Democrats regu­larly in all the sensitive places." 
So Republicans face a choice, and it's one that could be heav­ily influenced by the outcome of the presidential election. Some worry privately that Gingrich's slash-and-burn style, which has been effective in a town where Republicans control the White House and its legislative veto, may be less productive if Democrat Bill Clinton wins the presidency. 
No one has openly emerged to challenge Gingrich for the No. 2 job, but some believe he hears footsteps for 1994. 
Rep. Bill Archer of Texas, the senior Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee, is viewed by some as likely to run for minority leader after Michel retires. Others believe Hyde may be getting in line for a similar bid. And next in line behind Gingrich is Rep. Jerry Lewis of California. 

One senior GOP official won­dered whether Gingrich, whose career has been built on aggressive, blunt methods. would be able to develop the diplomacy and tact generally regarded as necessary in the top leadership position. 
Adding to the problem is the departure of Rep. Vin Weber, R­Minn. Weber, a close ally of Gingrich, rolled up 125 over­drafts in the House bank scan­dal, and opted for retirement. 
"It's a big loss," said a top Republican. "Vin tempered some of Newt's excesses." 
WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free America 
N.D. STlJDENTS 
FOR EVERY ORDER DELIVERED TO CAMPUS MONDAY-WED. 
PAPA JOHN'S 
WILL DONATE $1 TO THE CAUSA HURRICANE RELIEF 
271-1177 

Happy Birthday Mau Love always, Chris  
r:B1{JPT09{S , 'Ba&ons, Canis, (jift.s, anti Jlntiqrus ~' {219) 271-2001 !){ours: ~ ~ 'Mon-Sat 10-9 Suniayl0-6 1627 'Etiison 'JqJad • Soutfi. 'Benti, !9{46637 Yl.cross tfi.e strut from Line6ac~r-cufjacent to Jamison Inn •$5.00 coupon -witfi. S15.00 minimum purcfi.ase • 'Britton 'l(nowk.s · OWner  

TODAY thru FRIDAY, Sept. 25 
9am-5pm 

Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17!­


---~ ~-----------------~----~------------------~----..., 
Business 
Monday, September 21 , 1992 page 9 
Finance officials work 
Bush to sign trade agreement 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­
a campaign swing Friday in 
to end currency crisis 
dent Bush on Friday formally New Mexico that he still has not notified Congress that he in­made up his mind whether to WASHINGTON (AP) -Fi­turmoil once markets re-open
tends to sign the free trade support the pact. Aides had said nance officials searched for Monday. 
agreement just negotiated with earlier that Clinton would ways Sunday to resolve the Waigel played down any
Mexico and Canada, starting announce a decision this week. 
worst currency crisis in two sense of crisis and said that it 
the clock ticking for congres­"I'm soliciting a wide range of decades while insisting that was just "a normal thing that sional consideration of the pact. opinions," Clinton said. "We're currency markets were likely we meet after this decision ... 
The administration sent to working very hard. It's a big 
to stabilize in upcoming days The European finance offi­Capitol Hill the 2,000-plus agreement. I want to make a given the apparent approval cials were in Washington to at­pages of the North American very careful analysis and a very by French voters of a tend the annual meetings of Free Trade Agreetnent, along clear statement." 
European unity treaty. the World Bank and the 
with reports compiled by the 38 Under fast-track procedures Officials of the United States International Monetary Fund. 
private sector advisory groups approved by Congress, once the and its major economic allies Several European currencies that were consulted during the president signs the accord he said that the actions they have including the British pound,
Bill Clinton 

14-month negotiations. can present to Congress the already taken and were pre­the Italian lira and the Spanish The trade treaty, concluded With congressional notifica­legislation needed. Those laws pared to take in coming days peseta suffered heavy losses in Aug. 12, would eliminate, over tion, Bush now must wait at will be drafted in consultation should help calm the market value last week with much of 
a period of 15 years, any tariffs least 90 calendar days before with Congress. 
turbulence. the turbulence blamed on wor­
and other barriers to the flow of he can sign the treaty -pro­Once the legislation is for­They also breathed a sigh of ries among investors about goods, services and investment vided he's re-elected. The 90-warded to Capitol Hill, Congress 
relief that French voters ap­what might happen if the between the three nations. day clock would elapse Dec. 17, has 90 legislative days to 
peared to have narrowly ap­French had rejected the treaty. 
Critics say the treaty will drive more than a month after the approve or reject the entire 
proved a treaty calling for President Bush, in the 
jobs south of the border and Nov. 3 election. agreement without amendment. 
greater European economic middle of a re-election 
lead to a decline in the en­Democratic candidate Bill That vote is not expected before 
and political unity, according campaign in which the weak vironment. Clinton told reporters while on June. 
to early, unofficial projections U.S. economy has become a made by French television. dominant issue, took the German Finance Minister unusual step of inviting the
Banker alleges U.S. loan knowledge 
Theo Waigel said that the ap­finance officials to the White ATLANTA (AP) -The former Lavoro and Iraqi officials made proved the scheme as part of a 
parent French approval of the House Sunday for what admin­branch manager of an Italian­him the fall guy in what he said pre-Gulf War policy of extend­
unity treaty was "a positive istration officials said would owned bank who admitted ille­was a well-known plan to loan ing aid to Iraq. 
signal for integration in be a pep talk on the need to gally loaning billions of dollars Iraq billions for weapons and Drogoul, former manager of 
Europe and also a positive find ways to spur the sluggish to Iraq alleged in a television food. the BNL's Atlanta branch, 
signal for the markets." global economy. interview that government of­"Certainly, I would have to pleaded guilty in June to 60 
Waigel said that "a small President Bush arrived back ficials knew about the scheme. say that the intelligence com­counts of bank fraud in con­
majority is better than a mi­at the White House from Camp But Christopher Drogoul munity monitored our activities nection with the scheme to lend 
nority" and that there was "no David in mid-afternoon, a few didn't name any government or from the outset. There was $5.5 billion to Iraq. But Drogoul 
reason for nervousness in cur­hours before his dinner meet­banking officials aware of the general knowledge in Washing­last week told a judge he wants 
rency markets." ing with the foreign ministers. loans, and a prosecutor denied ton and in the financial com­to withdraw the plea. A hearing 
Finance ministers of the 12-"Obviously we're interested the allegations. The comments munity," he said. was scheduled for Tuesday. 
nation European Community in stability in the currency were made in an interview Drogoul's lawyers have made Acting U.S. Attorney Gerrilyn 
held an emergency meeting markets. I'll congratulate them broadcast Sunday on "60 similar arguments in court, Brill told "60 Minutes" that 
Sunday afternoon to assess the on the approach they are tak­Minutes." claiming BNL executives in Drogoul masterminded the 
early returns from the French ing here. And I'll have a sug­
Drogoul said the U.S. gov­Rome were aware of his activi­scheme alone, against the vote and map strategy for gestion or two that will help," ernment, Banca Nazionale del ties and that U.S. officials ap-orders of BNL officials in Rome. dealing with any further said Bush. 

Love, 
Mom and Dad 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
YESTERDAY 
A LIVE TRIBUTE TO THE 

9{jJ ¥l('ELf2LW SOCI'E 
BEATLES 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS $5 NO STUDENTS $8 ADULTS $10 
(jenera[ Meeting 

MOREAU GALLERIES, through Oct. 2-Barbara Shinn, photographs; Cheryl O'Neill, drawings; Marcia Kaplan, sculpture. Admission free. Infonnation: 284-4655. 
7:30 Cushing 5tuditorium 

COMING ATTRACTIONS ... Lend Me a Tenor national touring production, Oct 14... American Choral Directors Association Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir concert, Oct. 31... 

Wednesday September 23, 1992 
---l!t--­
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office. located in O'Laughlln Auditorium. Saint Mary's Colle~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

Ill 
ALUMNI 
J.A.C.C. Ice Rink 
SENIOR 
Weekday Schedule Beginning Sept, J9lh 
Free Skating MWF Noon~ 1 p.m. Student/Faculty/Staff

~!:CLUB 
Hockey
Thursday 
TTh Noon, 1 p.m. Faculty/Staff Rental Skates $1 /pr

Alumni--Senior Club 
Skate Sharpening $3/pr 
presents 
You've come a 
long way baby!

DISSFUNKTION 
The Place To Be For The Class Of '93 Happy 
9 ~ 2 
Birthday
must be 21 


--------~-----~---~---------~­
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
NO Collegiate

'Holy war' is raging in American politics 
Jazz Festival 

Murphy Brown is the focus of women to be granted a divorce already obscene wealth of the
Kurt Mills 

evil in the modern world. In the On the Other Hand has meant that they have been top few percent dramatically. needs critical input1980s, this is how Ronald able to flee from abusive and These policies hardly sup­Reagan characterized the Soviet dog, and a whtte ptcket fence domineering husbands, and ported the family. And, other Dear Editor: Union. Now, since the Soviet surrounding a house in the have actually been able to gain policies seem hostile to the re­Union is no longer available as a modicum of control over their alities of the modern family.
suburbs. Student Government, in an ef­
the greatest danger to the Pat Buchanan, in one of the lives. Most striking is Bush's opposi­
fort to evaluate student pro­

American Way of Life, this most hate mongering speeches I Apart from this. however, it tion to the family leave bill, 
gramming on eampus, has

honor has been granted to a have heard in a long time, just seems reasonable that which would give people up to formed a committee to reviewfictional television character. called for a Holy War against women (and men) should be twelve weeks of unpaid leave to the Collegiate Jazz Festival.
At least this is what one these heretics (who would able to get out of a relationship care for a new baby or a sick The Festival, a long standingseems to hear if one listens to include, apparently, the "Zulus" in which they no longer see any family member. 
tradition at Notre Dame, is held 

the Republicans talk about so who come to the U.S. and value without the state or called "family values" for very disrupt the American Way of anybody else intervening. Bush says that it would be each Spring and is funded pri­long. Life). · The debate about family val­economically harmful. When marily by SUB. 
Of course, it is more than just Pat Robertson showed his ues seems to harken back to an has this stopped him before? In the independent, assertive, contempt for women and earlier, idyllic, and at least par­his four years as President, he The committee is appealing to single mother we see every women's rights when he said of tially fictional time when has supported continued all students. faculty, and staff Monday night at 9 p.m. eastern, women knew that their place obscene military budgets and
the ERA: "It is about a socialist, who have been involved with 
8 p.m. central who threatens was in the kitchen and in the tax breaks for the rieh, even
anti-family political movement the Festival in the past, as an 
the very fabric of our national that encourages women to leave bedroom (although without though this has contributed to organizer, participant, or guest,being. their husbands, kill their birth control and certainly not the bankruptcy of the country. 
to give us your impressions ofIt is anybody who does not children, practice withchcraft, for their own pleasure). 

the Festival. 

agree with George Bush, Dan destroy capitalism and become Apparently, everybody The final and most important Quayle, Pat Buchanan, Pat lesbians." believed in a vengeful god who point about the "family val­Robertson and the like about Apart from the patent ridicu­would smite the unrighteous; ues"debate concerns what right We are in dire need of evalua­how one should live their lousness of this statement, and teenage pregnancy did not George Bush and Dan Quayle tions, both critical and praise­personal lives. all of the hate (which had never exist, and women stayed home, have to pass judgement on how worthy, in the very near future. 
The debate about family val­occurred to me as being a value eared for the children .and people live their personal lives. As next year's budget is sub­ues is, as much as anything, a which we would want to pro­obeyed their husbands. Why should these elites in mitted just after Fall Break, our mean-spirited political and mote) which oozes out from this Whether or not this time ac­Washington-and, although report needs to be presentedrhetorical tool to portray any­short statement, I wonder why tually existed, and unfortu­Dan Quayle apparently does not prior to Break. Such timelybody who does not believe in Robertson, as well as all of the nately some of the most insidi­believe it, they are the epitome 
presentation will allow for ap­

the religious right orthodoxy ous aspects of this perceived of the removed-from-the-real­
people who cheered him at the propriate consideration by this
about the role of women in so­golden era were all too real, world elites-be able to dietate
convention, feels that women year's budget committee. 

ciety and the home and the should not receive equal this is not the world today. whether or not people get need for a completely homoge­treatment in the workplace and Most women work outside of married, have children inside or The committee thanks you inneous society as out of the be paid the same as men for the the home (although their wages outside of marriage, participate advance for your assistance inmainstream. same job? This is, after all, are on average only 75 percent in a heterosexual, homosexual, 
But, even more than that, the what the ERA was all about. of that of men for the same or bisexual lifestyle or do helping to improve student attacks are reminiscent of the Another promoter of "family jobs). This is because the anything else in their private programming. All comments McCarthyite crusade against the values" is Phyllis Schlafly. She wished for nuclear family is no lives which does not infringe can be directed to us during the perceived communists who longer economically viable. upon others? Why should they next three weeks.
spoke here at Notre Dame pervaded the U.S. in the 1950s. about three years ago, and Real wages have declined care? What business is it of One need only to have lis­among other things she said relative to the costs of living a theirs? tened to a few minutes of the that laws which make it easier 1950s white pieket fence Long live Murphy Brown! Catherine Danahy Republican convention to hear for women to get divorced have lifestyle, at least partly as a re­Committee Chairperson the contempt they had for free­been bad for women. The evils sult of the Reagan/Bush eco­Kurt Mills is a graduate stu­
Jennifer Avegno 

thinking women, gay men and nomic policies which have dent in the Department of Gov­
of divorce have been mentioned 
Dave Cathcart 

lesbians, and anybody who felt from time to time by the quadrupled the national debt, ernment and International 
Margaret Haugh 

that not everybody needed to be candidates themselves. put millions more on the wel­Studies. His column appears 
Sept. 18, 1992 

married, have 2.3 children, a fare roles, and increased the every other Monday. 
And yet, the greater ability of 

t 
t 
~ 
f 
L 
t 
Viewpoint 
Monday, September 21, 1992
page 10 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ......Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, 
~ 
letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

Bush reveajs hiS' domesti' e'anomi( poJi'~· .. 
DOONESBURY 
A PA9310NAT£. f?tftNOER OF TH& fflVIRONM&NT... 93NA7VF< 
AL. GO!<& IS NOW CONV//1/C£{) 71-WlH&&NG/N&s OF HUMAN 
CIVIL-IZATION HAV& BI<IJU3HT U9 70TH£8R/NK OF 
CATA'5TROPH&"' II 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"THI~ !l-WMINATING AN{) 
0/3.8PL-Y P£.R!30NAL. 8CXJK 15 
REQUIR&l? REAPING FOR. AU 
aHO P8!<C£/VE3 7H& URGENT 
Nea? 70 BRING lHEi f3AIVH 
BACK. INTO BALANCE.'' 
\\ 
~Af 
~ 
'A hero isn't any braver than an ordinary man, but he is brave for five minutes longer.' 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
White knight talking backwards.· timbus: 
QUOTt;.,·, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
-------------~-~-~----­

Accent 
Monday, September 21, 1992 page 11 
Amodel of courage 
Swimmer Haley Scott receives Spirit Awardfor overcoming adversity 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT stomach and diaphragm," she added. "It Accent Writer involved every major organ." 
For many of the fans at last Saturday's Two new rods and a metal plate were game against Michigan, the most inserted in Haley's back during the final uplifting part of the game did not occur surgery. "Everything physically is in within regulation time. And it certainly place," Scott said. "Now I have to let my 
did not occur when the final whistle was body have energy so it can heal. The blown and the game ended in a tie. more I rest, the quicker it will heal." The most uplifting moment came at According to Lyons' Rector Sister halftime, when swimmer Haley Scott Kathleen Beatty, Haley's biggest struggle was awarded the Maxwell House Spirit "will be to continue to be as patient as of Notre Dame Award. possible with the healing process, to do 
Scott returned to campus to receive it one day at a time." the award and to start classes again Swim coach Tim Welsh agreed. Asked after spending most of the summer when Haley would swim again, he recuperating from extensive surgery replied, "We will be delighted with performed in June at the University of whatever happens. The first priority is California-San Diego Medical Center. for the bone graft to heal, and for the 
The surgery was part-of a continuing brace to be removed, and for Haley to recovery for Scott, who suffered a strengthen herself." broken back and temporary paralysis in a January 24 bus accident involving the Haley is gaining strength every day. swim team. It actually consisted of three She has no actual therapy to perform, operations within a ten-day period, but instead strengthens herself by according to Scott. walking as much as possible and by al­lowing herself plenty of time for rest. Photo Courtesy of Kristin Heath 
In the first surgery, the doctors The golf cart she used for removed the rods that were placed in transportation last semester is now Sophomore Haley Scott, shown here with her Maxwell House Spirit of Notre Dame Award Haley's back in January. The rods, parked in front of Lyons Hall. Haley at the Notre Dame vs. Michigan game, spent the summer in surgery and rehabilitation for intended to provide support, had not tries not to use it, however, since her injuries in last January's swim team bus accident. 
fused properly with her spine. As a walking is her only opportunity for 
classes and helping with swim team try-Friends, teammates, and professorsresult, they broke lose and made her exercise until the brace comes off. 
outs. Coach Tim Welsh maintains that have all supported Haley during her
spine curve, causing her pain and Once the brace is removed, Haley 
the other swimmers see Haley as "a recovery. She feels lucky, she said, be­discomfort. hopes to get back into the pool as soon great model of courage, spirit, and cause "I got a sense of what Notre Dame Days after the rods were removed, the as possible. She has no doubts that she determination. They also see her as part means as a freshman. Most people don't surgeon successfully straightened will compete again. 
of the team." until after they leave here." 
Haley's spine in a seven-hour operation. "I'll be on the team, I'll train, I'll This "interior spinal surgery" is rarely compete," she said. "It's just a question Haley, on the other hand, does not In watching Haley Scott walk off theperformed, Scott said. of how long it will take me and what think of herself as an inspiration to the football field last Saturday with her"It is the second most serious type of level I'll get back to. But there's no other team members. Instead, she said, award, thousands of people saw first­surgery, next to open heart surgery. He question in my mind." 
"I just think they're glad I'm back and hand what the "Spirit of Notre Dame" ishad to collapse a lung and move the In the meantime, Haley is taking three glad to have their friend back." really about. 
Goal of Hispanic Heritage Month is to raise student awareness 
By KENYA JOHNSON are very different. The Puerto seem slow to them, HAO is Accent Writer Ricans are different from the bringing many beneficial events Mexican-Americans which are to campus during Hispanic 
September and October mark different from the Cubans," ex­Heritage Month. a significant time in the year. It plained Vargas. "We're really "We've already celebrated is a time for recognition and just trying to teach others what Mexican Independence Day celebration. It is a time to take we're about." (September 16) with traditional pride and spread the word The officers do admit however Mexican dancing and food. about certain individuals in that it is sometimes hard to There was also a dance this America. gather people together and past Friday that was pretty suc­
It is Hispanic Heritage Month make their organization as suc­cessful," said Verdugo. (September 15-0ctober 15); a cessful as they would like it to month in which the tradition be. Still scheduled is renowned and culture of Hispanic Ameri­speaker Tony Ayana, former cans will hopefully be acknowl­In many universities in the governor of New Mexico. He edged. West and Southwest the His­will be speaking on September 
Nationally, Hispanic Heritage panic organizations do much 29, 1992 in the Library audito­Month is saluted by the federal for the surrounding Hispanic rium on what it means to be a government, political organiza­communities, explained Verver. role model. tions, corporations and schools, "It's discouraging sometimes "Tony Ayana is a very influen­such as our own Notre Dame. because we feel we should be tial man to the Hispanic race," 
The Hispanic American Or­doing more for communities said Verver. "I admire the ganization (HAO) plans to take outside of Notre Dame, but it's African-Americans for having the time, especially during His­hard here. South Bend doesn't role models such as Dr. Martin panic Heritage Month, to edu­have a large Hispanic commu­Luther King, Malcolm X, and cate both Hispanics and non­nity," said Verver. HAO Vice Minister Louis Farrakhan. We llispanics at Notre Dame about President Anita Verdugo have them, but they tend to be their culture, according to HAO agreed. so low key and not at all nation­President Israel Verver,Jr. "And not only is that com­ally known. Tony Ayana is one 
"There's a lot to know about munity small, but the Hispanic of these, and his talk about be­our culture. Sometimes it seems community on campus is small ing a role model means a lot to as if we (Hispanics) get too. The Hispanics are the our heritage," he explained. dancing children from South "Neither our past nor our 
overlooked by others. We may largest minority population on Bend, will be performing before present has really been publi­not be in the 'white/black' is­this campus, yet I think our or­Also speaking is Carmen Morales at approximately 7 cized, but we are a very impor­sues, but we are still here," said ganization membership is one Morales, a famous Puerto Rican p.m. tant aspect of this society. It is a Verver. Treasurer Eva Vargas of the lowest. We need to storyteller. Morales will be at "We are limited by our bud­time to recognized Hispanic­agreed. strengthen HAO before we can Notre Dame Tuesday, October 6 get, but we are trying to do American excellence, heritage, 
"People tend to lump Hispan­successfully help others," said at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ball­what we can. What's most im­and history. It's time to become ics into one pile, but we really Verdugo. room (aka Theodore's). The portant is to educate everyone more aware about Hispanic­Although their progress may Balet Infantile, a group of about us. Americans," said Verver. 


r 
r page 12 The Observer Monday, September 21, 1992 
Brewers move to within four games of Jays with 9-3 win over Orioles 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Paul Molitor doubled twice during an eight-run rally in the sixth inning and the surging Milwaukee Brewers beat Baltimore 9-3 Sunday to close within four games of first place in the AL East. 
The Brewers have won four in a row and eight of nine. They moved up on division-leading Toronto, which lost 7-5 to Texas. 

Baltimore remained 5 112 games behind Toronto. The Orioles have lost the first three games of a series that ends Monday at County Stadium. 
Craig Lefferts and the Orioles took a 3-0 lead into the sixth, but it didn't last long. Kevin Seitzer led off with a single for the first of his two hits in the inning and Molitor doubled, finishing Lefferts. 
Robin Yount met reliever Storm Davis (6-3) with a 
sacrifice fly, and Greg Vaughn hit an RBI single that made it 3­
2. Pinch hitter Darryl Hamilton's RBI single off Jim Poole tied it and B.J. Surhoff's RBI single put Milwaukee ahead. 
An error by third baseman Leo Gomez and run-scoring 
singles by Pat Listach and Seitzer gave the Brewers a 7-3 lead, and Molitor capped the burst with an RBI double. Surhoff singled home another run in the eighth. 
James Austin (5-2). who pitched the sixth inning, wound up as the winner. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office. 3t4 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classtlieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
~harge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I NOTICES 
ATTENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 
What is the best place for a morning staff meet,ing? Greenfields Cafe 
'SENIORS' SENIOR CLASS CRUISE THUR. SEPT 24 $25 INCLUDES EVERYTHING!! BUY @ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 'SENIORS' 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-771 0 
'81 Mustang 61000 miles, New Clutch, Tape Deck call 289-6680 
Typing 237-1949 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: Gold cladaugh bracelet. Possibly in NOH or Loftus. Huge sentimental value. If found please call271-7288. REWARD 
LOST: EYEGLASSES AND A BLACK CASE DURING MICHIGAN GAME WEEKEND. IF FOUND, CALL BRENDAN 234-1376. 
FOUND: RING IN STADIUM AT ND-MICH GAME X1593 
WANTED 
BONNIE DOON HAS POSITIONS.AVAILABLE FOR SERVERS, COOKS AND FOUNTAIN 
Apply in person to: 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
WANTED: CAMPUS SALES/PROMOTIONS REP FOR CASUAL FALL/WINTER BOOT LINE. HAVE FUN AND EARN MONEY WHILE DOING IT! PRODUCT SOLD IN SUCH STORES AS MACY'S AND NORDSTROM. PLEASE CALL 800­847-8447 BETWEEN 9-5 PST. ASK FOR KATE TO ARRANGE AN INTERVIEW. 
We need a kirt lover to care for our 2 1/2 year olo. 1\pprox. 15 hrs per week. Very flexible. We can work it around your class schedule. 5 minutes east of U.P. Mall. Must have own transportation. Call277­2468. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Guaranteed INCOME with HUGE PROFIT potential. Need extra money? Are you motivated? Want to have some fun? Send letter of interest to: Maingate Enterprises P0915 Notre Dame. IN 46556 or CALL: 
287-6730 (Leave message) $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Michiana Figure Skating Club needs a skating instructor for Wednesday evenings. Call Mary Myers at 287­4524 or Penni Williams at 277­3699. 
WANTED: Part-time child care worker for in-home care of 2 children, 1 infant. 10-12 hours/week, afternoons. 273-1702. 
I Need 2 GA's for Stanford, BYU, 
BC or Penn! Help! x4174 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
PURDUE TIX!!!! 
I offer SEX, MONEY, roommates, 
anything else your heart desires! 
Need 2 GA or 1 Std. 
-Call Scot at '4013 
WANTED 2 BUY: 2 GA TIX FOR 
ANY HOME GAME PLS CALL 
MARIA (716)256-2923 ASAP! 
TASP INTERNATIONAL IS 
LOOKING FOR INDIVIDUALS 
WHO WANT TO GAIN 
MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE 
NEXT SUMMER. EARN $8,000­
10,000. POSTION AVILABLE 
ACROSS INDIANA (MICHIGAN) 
(KENTUCKY) (TENNESSEE). 
CALL TOM SMITH 1-800-543­
3792 
EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. ----------1 NEED 1 STUDENT TICKET AND 2 GAs FOR STANFORD. PLEASE CALL #3074 OR# 2599. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. 
need to sublet turtle creek studio aprt. call Damian 283-1870 
Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. 
studio-$220 
I bedroom-$255 2bedroom-$280 
Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
2 room efficiency, private utilities paid, male preferred $7 a day. Call 288-0955 
B & B -UNIQUE COUNTRY 
SETTING. MINUTES FROM NO. 
NEAR GRANGER. 616-663-8308. 
FOR SALE 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR. TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 
86 vw.......................... $ 50 
87 MERCEDES .......... $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
FOR SALE: AIR TIK S.B to NORFOLK Va. FOR FALL BREAK Call1983 
Sweatshirts For Sale!!! Handmade Christmas, NO, & Irish Sweatshirts and T-shirts for sale. For more information or to see samples call Kim 273-2967. 

TICKETS 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S + CASH FOR 2 PENN ST. X1746 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL 
TICKETS.272-6306 
I need GA's and/or Student tix for 
all or any game. Please call 
Aaron @ 271-2908. 
NEED TICKETS FOR ALL HOME 
GAMES!CALL BRIAN 800-443­
6701 x5281 or 312-248-3425 
I need student and/or GA Purdue football tickets and Boston College GA football tickets; please call Dave at x4506. 
MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB. 
HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM 
NO. HE NEEDS PLAYS. 
THERE'S ONE WAY. 
SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, 
PENN GA'S! 
CALL ERIN 284-5128. 
HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC 
GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE 
CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM 
(609) 769-0721. 
NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC 
GA. CALL X2805 
PLEASE SELL ME 2 GA TIX FOR 
PURDUE. 
CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 
BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 
AFTER 5 PM. 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 
CALL 283-1747 
I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs 
YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE 
GAs 

WANNA TRADE? Call Bret (me) at 1248. I love you. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
MOM NEEDS 2 STANFORD TIX CALL BILL X1926 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State game Nov 14. BIG$ Call Sam Collect (0)908-687-1330 (N)201­
376-9427 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ I Need 2 BYU GA's $ $ Patty x4637 $ $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I have 2 Stanford GAs--<:all Gabrielle at 283-3023 
Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call 283­4519. 
Need Penn St. Tix Tony x1786 
I need 2 Stanford GA's 
Call Chris X2727 
NO Parents need 2 Stanford G.A's Wiii.Pay Big$$ Meg x2985 
player needs many PU GAs and 2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 
SINGLE GA'S FOR SALE MAKE OFFER AT 283-4158 
NEED BYU TIX! WENDY X1264 
NEED 3 STAN GA'8--WILL PAY BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ 
$$$$$$ I NEED 2 STANFORD GA's Brandon X2070 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK FOR SALE -ALL TICKETS AVAILABLE -CALL KATIE AT 284-5443-LEAVE MESSAGE, BEST OFFER!!! 
Need Stan. GA's Bob 3398 
WANTED: 1 Purdue GA Please!! Call Semo at x1871 
HAVE PURDUE STU TIX cannot go Call Michae\283-1161 
I need 1 student ticket for Stanford 
Joe X1666 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PURDUE & 
BYU. PERSONAL USE ONLY. 
CALL 271-9540. 
Want to trade 2 GA Purdue tix for 2 
GA Stanford tix. Call 606-278-9820 
DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS 6 GA TIX TO STANFORD GAME. WILL MAKE VERY GENEROUS OFFER. CALL 412-644-3125 (DAY) OR 412­441-9613 (EVENING). 
I NEED PURDUE TICKETS-GAs 
OR STUDENT!!!! CALL CROZ 
x4121 
UNSIGNED MARRIED STUDENT 
BOOKLETS FOR SALE 271 5696 
I'll do anything for 1 GA to B.C. or 
Penn St. Lisa 284-5080. 
Will trade Stanley Cup for 4 PITT 
tix. Call Mario (a.k.a. Pete) at 
1-800-322-0228 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY 
HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE 
AT 618-439-3338. 
HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 
7 BC game. Please call x3799. 
Thanks. 
I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and 
Penn State. 283-4607. 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. 
WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL 
COLLECT 614 -354-5716 
NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAMES 277-1659 
Need GA's for all home games 
Brian 273-8368 
Need GA's for all home games 
Kim 284-4401 
SELLING OR TRADING 8 PENN ST GA's. WANTED 8 STANFORD GA's OR STU TIX. CALL KELLY OR LARRY AFTER 10:30 pm OR WKEND am. (212) 249-7239. 
I need BYU tix!!! Call Joel at 289­5563 
NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL SANDY AT 272-6194. 
HELP!!! NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 
Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame 1-415-991-3416 call collect 
NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Morrissey Hall & Law School Alumnist. Please help. Call David at 816-931-1267. 
WILL TRADE 2 BYU or 2 PURDUE STUDENT TIX FOR 2 STANFORD GA'S. CALL SEAN @X1213 
....NEED STUD TICKS .... 
NEED PURDUE STUD TICKS IN ORDER TO REALLY ENJOY THE GAMEl!! 
CALL GREG X1857 
PLEASE HELP I NEED G.A.'S FOR STANFORD CALL 1573 
HELP!! I NEED 2 GA's FOR THE PENN ST GAME!! PLEASE CALL AT 277-5980 
$WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL SHEILA AT x4251 OR CALL (614) 459-0074 COLLECT BETWEEN 7pm & 9pm. 
STANFORD TICKETS I NEED STANFORD TICKETS!!! CALL COLLEEN AT 283-4528. 
!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!1!!!!!1!1!!!!!!!1!!!!!! I STANFORD'STANFORD' HELP ME! 
I NEED STANFORD GA'S! IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL SABOL AT 283-2950 'STANFORD'STANFORD' 1!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!1!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!1! !!! 
Tickets for sale! 2 STANFORD STUDENT TIX Kerry x3619 
I have BYU stud. Bob 3398 
N.D. BAND DAD NOS G.A. FOR 
B.Y.U. REASONABLE. SARAH X3874 
I need 3 PU stud tix or GAs will PAY!! Paul x2990 
NEED 1 PURDUE STD. TICKET CALL 289-5980 
NEED PURDUE & STANFORD G.A.'S CALL X4108 
FOR SALE: 2 MARRIED STUD TIX BOOKS BOB 708-668-4398 
Purdue, BYU, & Boston College GAs For Sale or Trade For Penn State or Stanford GAs 289-3273 
I desperately need a G.A. or student ticket for Penn State--<:all Jahnelle at 283-2998 
I HAVE STUD TIX-ALUANY GAMES. 239-6915, 256-5327 
NEED PURDUE STUD TIX HAVE CASH &BYU STUD TIC TO OFFER. MIKE X1103 
Need 1 BOSTON or 1 PENN STATE St. Tix. Call JIM X1565 
I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket for the Stanford game. If you can help, please call Suzy at x3722. 
Senior ticket booklet 4 sale. Chris at 289-2482. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING STANFORD TICKET. PLEASE CALL JENNY X2725 
I need lots of PURDUE tickets!! Call Nicole x1564 
Have 1 Stamford GA Call Jennifer 1257 Best Offer! 
Need 10 plus BYU GA's Call #1852 
Need 4 BC Ga's Have Purd, byu stud tx and free kitten. Brian 273-1962 
NEED PURDUE GA's FOR G-PARENTS!!! CALL 284-5118 
HELP! NEED 3 PURDUE GA's. PLEASE CALL 284-4405! ' 
Need 2 Stanford GA's Todd x2292 
NEED 1 Penn State GA -x3958. 
Need Pur. & Stan. GA's Call Mike #1151 Leave msg. 
$$$$NEED PENN STATE TIX$$$ Student tix or GA's. Call x2998. 
PERSONAL 
r 
Hey Niff JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! 
GET THE T-SHIRTI!! 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
SMC & NO 1993 SUMMER 
PROGRAMS-London and Rome. 
Travel in Ire., Scot .. Eng., France, 
Ger., Switz., & Italy. Courses in 
Bus., Ed., Hist., Italian, Mus., 
Nursing, and Soc. Meeting Oct. 5, 
6:30 PM Carroll Hall (SMC). Slides, students from 1992, teachers. pizza, etc. Info Call Prof. Black 284­4460 or 272-3726. 
SENIORS: Are you disgruntled with 
dining hall food? Disheartened by 
the lack of stimulating conversation ·in your lives? Then join a Senior 
Rap-Up group' More info and sign­
ups at the esc. 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 
...Do you know the name of the 
smurf who cooked and wore the 
funny hat? 
Baker? Greedy? 
We're getting desperate! Call John 
x3057 and settle the debate .. 
To my sizzling meatlover-This 
"Chicken· needs a delivery in 
30 min or less 
Luv Michele your cheeselover 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LONGO! We've shared some great ones ... -candlelight chat -late night fun w/ J.W. -Mr. Creeps -"''ll tell you when you can come in!" -GROSSEST NIGHT -Never enough time-31/2 hrs. and late! -blowin' a fuse -Dunes -Mr. Freshflowers only one question: HOW DID YOU GET UP THERE IN THAT DRESS?? Love, Katie 
Attention! Earn $2500! Students. Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips At Your School! Spring Break 1-800­678-6386. 
SPRING BREAK '93 -SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now · hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. CALL 1-800-648-4849. 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
saw the pool bros. and thought of you and smiled. 
They're creepy and they're kooky. Mysterious and spooky. They're altogether ooky. THE PEARSON FAMILY! Happy birthday, Mom. Dad and Kristine. I wish I could be there! Your loving son/sibling, PAUL. 
P.S. Hi to you, too, Michelle. 
do you like whips and chains??? 
I like whips and chains!!! 
adv beginner looking for tennis 
partner 233-3059. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WE WILL PAY FOR ANY GAs 
PLEASE HELP!!!!!!!!!! 
WILLING TO TRADE IF 
NECESSARY OR BUY 
PLEASE HELP MY FAMILY KYLE 287-9118 THANK YOU 

The Observer 
Monday, September 21, 1992 page 1:5 
The Leader's Choice SM 
------~ 


Join the team! 
Teamwork is vital for success. It takes the time, talent, and enthusiasm of each member pulling together toward a common goal. If you're interested in joining a winning team, Ernst & Young is interested in you. 
Nationwide opportunities in auditing, tax, and consulting. 
Interview Dates 
~onday, October 12 and Tuesday, October 13, 1992 
To sign up for an interview with Ernst & Young, see your placement office. Look for posters on campus with other important dates. 
S!J ERNST & YOUNG 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

page 14 The Observer Monday, September 21, 1992 
Favre leads Packers to stunning comeback against Bengals 
GREEN BAY, Wis. (AP) ­Brett Favre shut his eyes when he let it go. He couldn't bear to watch what would be the biggest pass of his short NFL career. 
"I was scared I had thrown it halfway up in the seats," the second-year backup quarter­back for the Green Bay Packers said. "I closed my eyes and listened for the cheers and when I heard them I knew we either scored or we're close." 
Kitrick Taylor made sure of the score. He grabbed Favre's 35-yard pass with 13 seconds left Sunday, capping a 92-yard drive in five plays and giving the Packers a 24-23 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals. 
"After I caught it, I didn't hear anything. It was a natural high," said Taylor of his first NFL touchdown catch, which wrapped up Green Bay's 21­point final quarter. 

"Brett had great composure. In the huddle he said, 'We are going to score,"' Taylor said. 
The final drive took just 54 seconds and Favre made it work, even though the Packers had no timeouts left when rookie returner Robert Brooks ran out of bounds with the kickoff at Green Bay's 8. 
"We had nothing to lose," said Favre, forced into the game in the first quarter when Don Majkowski was sacked and suffered ligament damage to his left ankle. "We had fought our way back that far, so we didn't want to stop there." 
Favre got the Packers out of trouble with a 42-yard pass to Sterling Sharpe, who hurt his ribs on the catch. Vince Work­man caught another pass for 11 yards and then Favre stopped the clock with an incompletion. 
Then he found Taylor behind the defense, and Chris Jacke kicked the go-ahead extra point to give Mike Holmgren his first NFL coaching victory and Cincinnati rookie coach Dave Shula his first defeat in three games. 
"We were in a defense de­signed to keep them contained," Shula said. "We stopped ourselves the entire game. I thought for a while we would get away with it. But we didn't. 
"It didn't come down to the last play of this game that lost it for us. We all had a part in it." 
Green Bay (1-2) trailed 17-3 after three quarters, but rookie first-round pick Terrell Buckley, in his first NFL game, returned a punt 58 yards for one touchdown and Favre hit Sharpe for a 5-yard touchdown to cap an 88-yard drive. 
The Bengals took a 23-17 lead on Jim Breech's 41-yard field goal -his third of the game -with 1:07 to play. 
Marino shines in Dolphin's win 
MIAMI (AP) -The Miami Dolphins' grip seems to be im­proving. 
The Dolphins, who let fourth­quarter leads slip away in the final two games last year and the season-opener last week, scored on their frrst three pos­sessions Sunday and held on to beat the Los Angeles Rams 26­10. 
The Dolphins (2-0) took a 14­0 first-quarter lead Monday night at Cleveland, then needed a last-minute rally to win the game. Against the Rams, Miami rolled to a 17-0 lead after one period. 
Los Angeles (1-2), which snapped an 11-game losing streak last week, seemed on the verge of a comeback when it closed to 20-10 early in the fourth quarter, but Miami dominated the rest of the way. A 15-play drive set up Pete Stoyanovich's 27-yard field goal, and he added a clinching 
Kickers 
continued from page 20 
year we played with a great deal of intensity." 
A matchup with Dayton on Sunday loomed more difficult · than the game with the Spar­tans, but it did not turn out that way. Notre Dame pushed the Flyers all over the field, and used its speed advantage on offense to breeze past Dayton 4­1. 
Similar to the Michigan State game, Notre Dame started slow, going scoreless in the first half. 
The second period of play showcased the high-octane Irish offense, which attempted 23 shots to the Flyers nine. As in the game with the Spartans, Tiffany Thompson began the onslaught beating the Dayton 20-yarder after Jarvis Williams intercepted a pass from Jim Everett. 

Mark Higgs led the Dolphins with 111 yards rushing in 23 carries. Dan Marino threw two touchdown passes, Stoyanovich kicked four field goals and Mi­ami's defense forced four turnovers. 
A 76-yard touchdown drive . following the opening kickoff produced Miami's first score. Mark Duper beat cornerback Darryl Henley to catch Marino's 38-yard pass at the goal line for a 14-0 lead. 
Then Everett fumbled when sacked by Brian Cox. Miami's 
T.J. Turner recovered at the Rams' 22, and three players later Stoyanovich kicked a 36­yard field goal. 
Stoyanovich added a 44­yarder in the third period for a 20-7 lead. Tony Zendejas kicked a 31-yarder for Los An­geles early in the fourth quar­
goalie on a penalty kick. 

The junior midfielder's goal was followed by Michelle Mc­Carthy's score on an assist from Guerrero. Allison Lester scored next for Notre Dame, on an unassisted goal which saw Lester slip through two Dayton defenders before beating the goalie to the left. 
Dayton scored its lone goal near the end of the half, when Diane Coleman was able to beat Irish keeper Michelle Lodyga. 
Lester capped the scoring with minutes left in the half on an assist from Regan Coyne, knotting her second goal of the game. 
"We have improved our in­
siveness has definitely im­proved." 
Dayton coach Bob Glisson had similar feelings on the game. 
"Notre Dame's overall speed 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 

.. 
Sports Copy Editor 

Please submit a one-page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Friday Sept. 25. Contact Mike at 239-7471 for more information. 
ter. 
A turnover led to the Hams' only touchdown. Anthony Newman intercepted a pass from Marino and returned it 17 yards to the Miami 23. On the next play, Everett hit Willie An­derson at the goal line for the score. 
Several times when the Rams showed signs of life, a mistake sent their offense to the bench. Everett's deflected pass was intercepted in the end zone by 
J.B. Brown, a scrambling Ev­erett went into a slide on third down one yard short of a first down, and Hobert Delpino dropped a third-down pass that would have given the Hams a first down in Miami territory. 
Rams cornerback Todd Lyght, the NFC defensive player of the week last week. suffered a shoulder injury in the first period and missed the rest of the game. His injury will be examined Monday. 
and intensity is what we couldn't contain," commented the Flyer's coach. "We were too content to run with them or behind them instead of going for the tackle." 
Aiding Notre Dame's effort was the return of Lodyga. The senior captain anchored both of this weekend's wins from her goalie position, after sitting out the first four games nursing a separated shoulder. 
"Michelle coming back has made a big difference," added Petrucelli. "She's had a calming effect on the team. We're a lot more confident with her being in there." 
Breech missed from 36 yards, but got a second chance when the Bengals were called for a false start, their ninth penalty of the game. 
Majkowski left with 8:44 in the opening quarter when he was sacked by Tim Krumrie and could miss anywhere from a week to a month. 
Favre, acquired in a trade with Atlanta for a first-round draft choice during the offsea­son, had his problems before the final period. He was sacked and fumbled late in the third quarter, and three plays later, Boomer Esiason hit Eric Ball with a 17 -yard touchdown pass that gave the Bengals a 17-3 lead with 1:13 to play in the third. 
But Buckley, just signed nine days ago, kept the Packers in the game with his electrifying punt return, offsetting an ear­lier 95-yarder by Cincinnati rookie Carl Pickens. 
Breech kicked his second field goal, a 34-yarder with 8:05 remaining, to give the Bengals a 20-10 lead before Favre moved the Packers 88 yards in eight plays for a touchdown. 
He hit Sharpe with a 33-yard pass and then a 5-yarder for the score with 4:11 to go, pulling Green Bay to 20-17. It was Favre's first NFL touch­down pass. 
The Packers forced a punt, but this time Buckley fumbled and Ball recovered for the Bengals at the Green Bay 33 with 3:11 to go. 
Breech then hit his second­chance field goal and with no timeouts, it looked like the Packers, who fumbled seven times and lost seven, were headed to another loss. 
But Favre provided the big plays for a victory. 

AP file photo The Bengals had little to celebrate as the Packers handed them their first loss of the young season. 


Muf±y, Woodchopper, Woodruff, Drow, oody, and Turtle 
Happy 2oth l(eep on Strokin'! 
Pete Funk, Mike D., The All-American, and 11 Get out ofmy kitchen! 11 

~nsity in the Ia~ two games," ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
stated Petrucelli. "Our agres-II 
ND/SMC SENIORS 
Now Accepting Applications for Senior Month Committee 
Applications available outside Senior Class Office, 
2nd floor LaFortune and Haggar Front Desk, SMC 
Deadline: September 23, 1992 
Questions? Call Chris 283-3486 or Sean 283-1654 
--~~---~--------~----------------~ ------------~~----­


Monday, September 21, 1992 
By Rich Kurz mentioned with Theismann,» 
Associate Sports Editor ,..,,:::.,.,,,.,,,.,,,.,_,,, Mi:r·· r 'd ''···"H ....... b ...,t,. · ·'·'· 
'Wf+i"' ·• «' e sa1 ; ~~ · O$ .· yea;rs 
page 15 


and he had to answers ques­tions concerning the possibility

Holtz 
that he had settled for a tie. Although he is in the spotlight 

continued from page 20 
week after week, Holtz is not familiar with negative criticismthe football." 

coming from the student body,The Spartan defense did slow and the Irish faithful. The only the Irish running game, but not way Holtz could silence the talk 

to the extent Holtz stated. In was to win big, and turn the fo­the first half the Irish rushed cus off of him and on to thefor 100 yards on 24 carries, an Notre Dame team. 
average of over four yards a The Irish coach must havecarry. 
also heard the whispers coming Receiver Adrian Jarrell cited 

from Mirer backers, who

a weakness in the Spartan de­
watched the quarterback's

fense as the thinking behind 
Heisman Trophy hopes slip

the increased passing attempts. 
away after the Michigan game,"We did a lot of play action 

and a subpar performance

because we knew Michigan 
against Northwestern. 

State had a very aggressive 
The only way to stop the talksecondary," commented Jarrell. 

of Mirer's dwindling HeismanMirer also credited the ag­hopes was to let him loose, and gressive Spartan defense for 

hope that a big performancethe switch from the usual 

would replenish his chances. 

pounding ground game. 
Holtz was successful in both"We did a fairly good job, of cases. Mirer is hack in the race, 

anticipating what they were 
and the talk centers on Purdue

going to do," said the Notre 
next weekend and national

Dame quarterback. "They are championship possibilities. 
really aggressive. They come to The reviews from this week­get you." 
end may not remain positiveThe Michigan State defense for long. By revealing the full

did give Holtz reason to turn capabilities of the offense Holtzhis focus to the passing attack, 
is opening himself to more

but it became clear from the criticism, concerning where the 
opening play that Holtz 
focus of the Notre offenseintended to showcase the 

should lie. 

passing attack. 
How he will handle this prob­Possibly factors existed out­lem if it arises, will be interest­side the football arena which ing, as is every time Holtz mustweighed into Holtz's decision to 

confront the critics. Like

utilize the passing game. 
Florida in the Sugar Bowl, and

Since the tie with Michigan Michigan State Saturday, welast Saturday, the Irish coach can expect Holtz to attempt tohas been sacked with critism 
stop the talk by winning.

from the media and fans. His 
Something which seems to

play calling in the final seconds silence the skeptics every time. 
of the game were scrutinized 
CLUB 23 
On Notre Dame Ave. and S.R. 23 

Now Club 23 Subs for Lunch! Free Delivery All Day 234--4015 Open lla.m.... 2 p.m. 
Weekly Specials 

Mon $300 60 "ouncers" Tues Lunch Special ... $200 7" Subs 
..

Wed Quarter Night $200 60 "ouncers" 
Thu $P0 "Around the World" Night 
Fri•Sat Live Music 
must be 21 
CLUB 23 
Lake' Dawson's huge c(ay gp Saturday almost didn't happen. Dawson sat. ottl practice on Thursday; bothered by a hamstrhig injury. Holtz told him he was eligible to play because he practiced on Tuesday and Wednesday, but said if he was on the team bus he better ready to play. 
The coaching staff asked Dawson to give it an aggressive test during warm~ ups. and it responded positively. 
"He was fine," said Holtz, "He made some nice catches!' Dawson credited the staff with helping him 
"Jim Russ did an e job on lt all week, .. Dawson. ,, 
His 1 Z6 yardS. receiving weri1 ' the most of his career. · 
******** 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
"I credit Michigan State," said Holtz. "I thought they played very well up front both defen­sively and offensively." 
Michigan State centered their defensive plan on stopping the run, a decision which helped lead to their downfall. The Notre Dame passing attack was filled with play-action passes, executed brilliantly by Mirer and the Irish running backs, a tone which was set on the very first play. 
Mirer faked the hand-off to Reggie Brooks, fooling the Spartan defense, then hit a wide-open Lake Dawson for a 42-yard gain. Six plays later, Mirer found tight end Oscar McBride in the end zone for a four-yard touchdown pass. 
Dawson said he expected Michigan State to be aggres­sive, and said that the Irish "wanted to hit them with a lot of play-action passes." 
After the MSU field goal, Clint Johnson got the next Irish drive started with a 53-yard kick return, giving the Irish the ball at the Spartan 41-yd. line. Dawson caught a pass for eight yards on the next play, and was 
C<J,rne after he left Notre l)~:me;~ .· ·. ...fb . ;; 
Satutday;~ ··game also I(larkeqJh~ third time in his career that he has thrown ~ee .. J'.D's .ill the.sam:~ game.
The first occasion was last seasonagainst Michigan State, 
a.P.d he du:eucated the feat <!gainstNavy; . • : l:{is 260 y1'1.rds throl.Jgh.the air against the Spartans al§o r~~resent~ the third. most yards he's complet~d in a sipgle.~~!ll~: Last .seas(}n Mirf:lr 
picked apar;t the Midshipmen for 3{)3 yards and in his S()pholil()re $easort, he hit the same Midshipmen for 265 
hit late by a Spartan defender, tacking on a 15-yd. penalty. Dawson caught a touchdown pass to end the series. 
After forcing State to punt, running back Lee Becton scored to put the Irish up 14-3, the big play in the drive being a 59-yard pass to Dawson. From there, the Notre Dame sec­ondary took care of the Spar­tans. 
On the very first play of Michigan State's next drive, Irish cornerback Tom Carter picked ofT a deep pass intended for Mill Coleman, a turnover the Notre Dame offense con­verted into seven more points on another play-action pass, this one to flanker Ray Griggs. 
On the next series, safety John Covington made the pick of a Miller pass, returning it six yards, which resulted in a field goal for the Irish. 
Lee Becton pumped some ex­citement into the game in the second quarter after Michigan State closed to 31-10. The sophomore took a short kickoff at the 22-yd. line, cut to the left and faked out most of the Spar­tan team, taking the kick 78 yards for a touchdown. 
The Notre Dame offense con­tinued to score at will in the third quarter, when Holtz gave Mirer the rest of the day off 

The Observer 
Hent~ich's sevell oti' Sat3Fd~y
give him1?9 strrught; · The streak dates to lien­
. trich!s fr(l~hmanyeaJ!rWhe~ he hit his final 31 attempts; war> good on .4~ of45 ,., •. ~,, .., that year, meaninghe h ,missed one his entire career. 
i> 

leading 45-10. 
Holtz inserted sophomore Paul Failla at quarterback for a few plays, before replacing him with Kevin McDougal. The ju­nior completed a pass to McBride for 14 yards. His second pass was a sensational one-handed catch by freshman Derrick Mayes, good for a touchdown a 52-10 advantage. 
The second-string defense entered the game for the Irish, and got pounded by the Spar­tans' first-team offense for two touchdowns, narrowing the margin to 52-24, forcing Holtz to put his defensive starters back in the game. State's of­fense then drove 75 yards on 12 plays, eating up almost four minutes of clock, ending with a Thomas touchdown run to fin­ish the scoring at 52-31. 
"They played as hard as they could in the second half," Per­les said of his players. "They scored some points against some people that (were) in their backup roles. At the end of the game, the last drive, was something that at least they can be proud of." 
Things won't get much easier for the Spartans, as they travel to Boston to take on a tough Boston College team. The Irish will play their fourth Big 10 opponent, hosting Purdue. 
ALUMNI
Ill 
SENIOR 
!CLUB 

Alumni--Senior Club 
and 

The Class of '93 
present 

A Class picnic Wednesday 7 ~ 9 p.m. 
Free Burgers, Hot Dogs, & Brats 
·---­

..------~--~-·---· 
page 16 The Observer Monday, September 21, 1992 
SMC soccer sweeps by Hope College 
By NICOLE MCGRATH 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's soccer team cruised past Hope College Saturday 3-1. 
The first half of the game saw only one goal scored. With only fifteen minutes left in the half, forward Stacy Winget found the box with an assist from defen­sive stopper Mandy Eiler. Eiler, who was just switched to de­fense, found coming up to of­fense quite natural. 
"I used to play midfield so, although I'm on defense, I saw holes and ran to them," said Eiler. 
Eiler's work did not go unno­ticed. "I was extremely pleased with Mandy's performance," stated 

Coach Tom VanMeter. "She has stepped up her game showing the most improvement of anyone on the team." 
Although the second half saw the Belles produce two more goals, they did not come until the last ten minutes of the game. 
On a corner kick-from left halfback Jenny Ferry, Eiler was able to score against Hope. Two minutes later, Hope struck back with the only goal off of senior Kristern Crowley. 
Forward Megan Dalsaso wrapped the game up, in the last two minutes, by scoring a goal off of a breakaway. But even Dalsaso had mixed re­views about the Belles' perfor­mance. 
"We were off and on throughout the whole game," commented Dalsaso."We should have scored more." 
Overall the victory over Hope College was not a sweet one, according to VanMeter. 
"Our offense was sluggish and inconsistent although our defense dominated the game," he stated. 
In order for the Belles to be in top form for their marathon schedule, they need to start by focusing on today's game against the University of Chicago, according to VanMeter. 
"Last year we benefitted from them having a first year coach,"said VanMeter,"but this year they have more recruits and experienced." 


Wilson, Lopez highlight impressive showing inTom Fallon Invitational 
ByJONATHANJENSEN Sports Writer 
Todd Wilson and Allan Lopez have waited a long time for this. 
Though the Irish seniors are the focus of the Notre Dame men's tennis team team, the big story of this weekend's Tom Fallon Invitational was the play of those two juniors. Both came to Notre Dame as highly-touted recruits, but have taken a while to come into their own-until this weekend. 
In the "C" flight, Wilson sur­prised junior Tom North, one of the Irish's top six last year, 6-2, 4-6, 6-4 in the finals. On his way to the finals he also beat highly-touted Irish freshman Jason Pun, 6-3, 6-3. 
In the "D" flight, Lopez beat Notre Dame freshman Brian Harris to advance to the finals, where he toppled sophomore Horst Dziura 6-4, 6-7, 6-4. Dz­iura beat freshman John O'Brien to advance to the finals and face Lopez. 
"I was really happy to win. I've been working real hard and preparing a lot for it," said Lopez. "Now I just want to keep moving up and improving, and we'll see how far I can go." 

"This is his third year in the program," said Bayliss of Wil­son, a native of Billings, Mon­tana. "He has never gotten to this level before. This just shows that hard work and per­sistence does pay off. These two guys are sending a message to me that they want to play." 
Besides Lopez and Wilson, the rest of the Irish also flexed their muscles this weekend, capturing 9 out of the 12 final­ists spots and dominating other top-25 opponents. 
Seniors Chuck Coleman and Mark Schmidt led the Irish in the "A" and "B" flights, as both advanced all the way to the fi­nals before falling. Coleman pulled off a big upset in the quarterfinals over Matthias Mueller of Nebraska, who has been ranked in the top-20 in the past. 
"That was a good win," noted Coleman, "I just went in and tried to play solid, and it was good enough for the win." 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

ND/SMC women's lacrosse has practice 10:00 Loftus, Monday and Wednesday. Call Emily 283-2914. 
The campus 2-person golf scramble will take place on September 27. The tournament is open to all students, faculty and staff. Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. 
NO Varsity Hockey is looking for statisticians and videotapers for the upcoming season. Anyone interested please· call assistant coach Jim Johnson at 239-5227. 
NO Tae Kwon Do Club will be having class in the fencing gym Monday and Wednesday at 8 p.m. Questions? Call Tim Kalamaros at 277-6797. 
SportsTalk on WVFl 640 AM welcomes cross country runners Mike McWilliams and Eva Flood on Thesday at 8 p.m. Call in with questions at 239-6400. ,, 

::?·~;:::: 

ND/SMC Field ··Hockey Interested in. playing field hockey? Come to practice tonight in Loftus at 9:00 p.m. For more information calll Liz X2670. 

Happy Belated 21st Kerry Lynn

.. 
Norton 
Your Loyal Fans 


Todd Wilson 
Coleman then defeated fellow senior Will Forsyth 7-6, 6-4 to advance to the finals. He then fell in a tough match to Michi­gan's Dan Braekus, 3-6, 6-3, 6­2, who had previously defeated the Irish's Andy Zurcher. 
"I did better than I thought I would, I wasn't playing well up to this tournament," said Cole­man. "I had some tough matches in the early going which helped me out, but I was pretty tired." 
Meanwhile in the "B" flight, Schmidt was battling Michigan State's Mashiska Washington, brother of professional tennis star Malavai Washington. He ended up losing 1-6, 6-2, 2-6. 
"Basically I ran out of gas. It was an even match into the third, then my legs just gave out on me," stated Schmidt. "He's tough, he's in good condition." 
In the rest of the "B" flight, Irish newcomer Eoin Bierne fell to Jan Anderson of Nebraska in the quarters, and senior Ron Rosas also lost to Washington in the semis. 
In the doubles flights, Notre Dame placed three out of the four finalists. In the "A" flight, the Irish's two top teams, Zurcher and Pun and Coleman and Forsyth, advanced to the finals but because of a slight ankle injury to Coleman, the match will be played later on in the week. 
"For both these doubles teams to advance to the finals speaks well," said Bayliss, as the Irish are trying to find new combinations for this year's doubles teams. 
The veteran tandem of 

Schmidt and fellow senior Chris Wojtalik won the "B" flight, with a win over Nebraska's team of Mike Garcia and Troy Bray. 
"We haven't really regained the form we had last season until this tournament," said Schmidt, "But we played well this tournament." 
Lopez's and Wilson's wins were most impressive to Irish coach Bob Bayliss, especially since they both beat members of the Irish's impressive freshmen class to take the ti­tles. This fact bodes well for the Irish's depth this season, which is something they will need against top teams. 
"It was a little easier playing at home, but it will get tougher," noted Bayliss, in ref­erence to Notre Dame's sched­ule, which could be the tough­est in the nation. "We had a lot of bright spots this weekend, some fierce competition. We still have a lot of work to do, but we'll be competitive." 

SYSTEMS RECRUITING 
Representatives of the Systems Division of Eli Lilly and Company will be on campus on the following dates: 
Tuesday, September 22nd Wednesday, Septembet 23rd 
7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation that develops, manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal health products. Lilly is a Fortune '500 company and has maintained record sales and earnings for 31 consecutive years. The company conducts operations in more than 130 countries. Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
The Lilly systems organization offers analysts the opportunity to develop and maintain business and scientific systems in a multi-vendor environment that utilizes the technologies of IBM, DEC, Apple, Hewlett-Packard, and Cray. 
Take advantage of the opportunity to discuss your future in the information systems field. Lilly representatives will return to campus to conduct interviews on Wednesday November "ith. 

6loiMI lnlomJIItiDn 
s,stems 
~ 

-------------~----~--­
Monday, September 21, 1992 The Observer page 17 

The Observer/John Rock Lee Becton runs for a 78 yd kickoff return touchdown . 



The Observer/John Rock Michigan State halfback Tico Duckett is stopped by an Irish defender. Duckett gained 94 yds on 14 attempts. 

" 
... 
-:::',~; 4 

The Observer/John Rock The Observer/John Rock Senior tailback Reggie Brooks dives over a Spartan defender. 
Cornerback Tom Carter tackles Tico Duckett. The Irish secondary made 29 tackles on the day. 
----------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer Monday, September 21, 1992 
Volleyballl suffers first loss of season in Purdue Invitational 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team could not maintain its un­defeated record, but this week­end's Mortar Board Purdue Premier was·far from a disap­pointment for the Irish. 
After falling against power­house Florida 15-13, 15:..6, 15­8, Notre Dame rebounded strongly to overQome Purdue 15-17, 16-14, 16-14, 15-7, and Montana 15·9, 15-5, 15-12. 
The strong finish propelled Notre Dame to second place, while Florida captured the crown with an undefeated weekend. 
Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown was happy with the results despite the first blemish to her team's record, now9-1. 
"This was a very good, very competitive tournament," Brown said. "There is no doubt that Florida is an excellent team.» 
For much of Friday after­noon's first game, Notre Dame outplayed the 10th-ranked Lady Gators (9-1). The Irish Jed 13-11 before succumbing to a late Florida comeback. That emotional setback cost the Irish dearly, as the Lady Gators took the next two games easily. 
Brown felt her team's show­ing was strong enough to im­press the nation!"<l volleyball community. 
"I felt pretty good about how we played against them," Brown explained. "We can def­initely play. with them, lmt we just are not as crinsistent as they are." 
After the loss to Florida, the 
·T:. . 

Purdue {7-3} match loomed less than four hours later and promised a strong opponent playing on its home court. Notre Dame dropped another close frrst game, leaving Brown concerned about the match. 
"It was a difficult situation," Brown said. "We had just played, the place was packed, it was really hot, it was really loud,-and their band was play­ing; It's psychologically tough to come back after losing a close game like thaC 
But come back they did. 

Notre Dame prevailed in the next two games. Then, with the momentum swung, they cruised to a game four victory. Christy Peters led the team with 29 kills, while Marilyn Cragin had 23 of her own. 
Saturday's win over Montana (3-8) cemented second place for the Irish. Cragin and captain Alicia Turner led a balanced offense with 11 kills apiece. The match was closer than the scores and team records might indicate. 
Cragin, who finished with 40 kills. and Peters, who racked up 50, were named to the all· tournament team for the Irish. Florida's Gudula Staub was named the tournament's niost valuable player. 
The Mortar Board, in addition to sponsoring the tournament, recognized three players on each team for off· court achievements. Notre Dame's Julie Harris was recognized for earning the team's highest grade point average,i Nicole Coates for the most hnproved GPA, and Jessica Fiebelkorn for the most outstanding coriunup.ity seryice; 
Men's soccer manages weekend split 
BY MARK MCGRATH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team wrapped up a tough stretch of the schedule yester­day when the team opened its MCC season with a 2-0 win over the Explorers of LaSalle. 
The stretch had seen the Irish play four games in six days in­cluding a 2-2 tie against Michi­gan State on Friday. 
"I thought we dominated the game," said Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli of Sunday's 

Tim Oates handles the ball during Notre Dame's 2-0 win Sunday. 
matchup. "We played well but we did not finish welL We had lots of chances and that is what we want this early in the sea­son." 
The Irish got on the board first when junior Mike Palmer took a pass form freshmen Bill Lanza and put it in the left corner at the 29:17 mark of the contest. This goal was the fourth of the season for Palmer, who leads the Irish in scoring, and it extended his goal-scoring streak to three games. 
"Mike Palmer is a player who is getting the job done for us at both ends of the field. He is scoring goals and is also playing great defense," Berticelli said. 
The Irish goal came after an apparent LaSalle goal was nulli­fied by an off-sides calL 
After the Irish score, LaSalle put together its best offensive spurt of the contest which saw Notre Dame goalie Bert Bader make a couple of fine saves while two shots hit off the crossbar. 
The Irish answered this flurry when Brendan Dillman took a pass in dose and hit the outside of the net. 
"I thought we played fairly well," said Irish captain Mario Tricoci. "We were unorganized from the back to the middle and we weren't hungry enough in the box." 
The Irish held the Explorers and put the icing on the cake when sophomore Tim Oates re­ceived a pass from Lanza and put the ball in the net. It was Oates' second goal of the season and it was Lanza's second assist of the year. 
"Bill is starting to make things happen," commented Berticelli. 
Irish keeper Bader made nine saves and recorded the shutout. The shutout was Bader's second of the year and the 13th in his two seasons. 
The next match for the Irish is at the highly-ranked Hoosiers of Indiana on Friday night. 
"It's a game we have to play a lot better to win," added Berti­celli. "We have to play a lot bet­ter defensively because they are going to come after us with some great talent." 

Don't Be a Campus Potato!! Take a Trip to TENEX Computer Express on Us! 
And witness first-hand some ofthe best deals on some of the best "School Tools" around!! 
\VBMAKE SHOPPING A BREEZE! 
FREE Transportation Please call to arrange for free transportation at 219/272-1234! Also, Transpo buses drop off and pick up on the corner ofGrape Rd and Douglas (just one block from TENEX). 
Delivery TENEX will arrange for prompt delivery of purchases. 

Software at Great Educational Prices! * Only $79°0 -Lotus 1-2-3 DOS Version 2.4 
Panasonic KX-P2180 Color Quiet Printer 
•9-pin dot m.urix 
Only$} 0900 -Lotus 1-2-3 Windows Version 1.1 Only $}3500 -WordPerfect Version 5.1 

Panasonic Letter Quality KX-P2123 Quiet Printer 
..:. ··' :·:. 

*Student/faculty I.D. required! Prices are for a limited time only! • 24-pin dot matrix 
Computer Express  5205 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219/272-1234 FAX: 219/273-0393 Store Hours: M-F 10am-7pm Sat: lOam-Spm {located just south ofDouglas Road)  cJ. Commodore•AMIGA. ~ N o V E L L~ aJihorized aurl'orized All TENEX Systems are 1OOo/o IBM-Compatible  

Today .. 
Monday, September 21, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 

I J\JS\ Wf>..t-1.1 ""fC) 91'{ W~T 't:D\J0.\10~ \S 0\JR I'IIOSI 
\M~R\f>..t-\'1 \t-l'l~5\M£.\IlT \~ 
11-1£. \=UT\JR£, N-\D l"r'S 
SCf>..t-\Df>..Lo\JS \-\()W UTILE OJR ED\JCf>..TORS A'K't: PAID.' 
\ 
~ 
~ 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  24 Poetic  50 Group of  
1 Grist receiver  contraction 25 ­up (gather  whales 51 Savoir-faire  
5 Aircraft personnel  quickly) 28 Library  53 Conclusion of the quote 
9 Honkers  instrument  _.60 Slipknot loop  
14 Reveler's cry of  31 Unruly crowd  61 Toward the  
old  34 Just about  mouth  
15 Lead-in for gram  36 Developer's purchase  62 English humorist  
16 Damask-rose perfume· 17 Notfem. or neut. 18lnspired  37 Sufficiently cooked 38"Mon-!" 39 Cat---tails 41 Malt kiln  Edward­63 Dean Martin party 64 Musical sound 65 Cement  

42 Jillian and Miller ingredient19Gunwale 43 Chaney or Nol 66 Llama's habitatadjunct 44 Calf's stomach 67-of the earth20 "Better a blush membrane 68 "Pardon me!"

-"(Beginning 46 Asian festival of a Cervantes 
47 Jason's quote) 
sorceress 

DOWN 23 Continually 49Sample 1 Office note 
2 A grand duke of Muscovy

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3 Kind of cause 4 Lustful 5 Irritate 6 Recompense 7 Branch of govt. 8 Move with effort 91nfer 
10 Allen of the Revolution 11 College on the Thames 12 Room in a hacienda 13 Before, in poesy 21 Holiday preceders 22 Wobble 


BILL WATTERSON 
OK, HANDS UP. ACTUA\l.'i,W"() ELSE l'D LIKE 1C D1DNT Oo 11-1£ SEE !<\ORE 
1-\0io'\E.WOR\:: T£ACH£12.S FOR TOOM? OVI ON TilE 
Sil<.£.8'5. 
• 

45lmpress 54 Burden distinctly 

CAMPUS  
Monday 7 p.m. Film, "Ballet Mechanique." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission. 9 p.m. Film, "Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein" Annenberg Auditorium. Admission.  
LECTURE  
Monday 12:30 p.m. "Germany's Role in Europe After Unification," Dr. Herta Daeubler-Gmelin, member of the Parliamentarians for Global Action. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Studies. Admission Free. 4:15p.m. "New Challenges for German Foreign Policy," Dr. Herta Daeubler­Gmelin, member of the Parliamentarians for Global Action. Room 131, DeBartolo Hall. Admission free. 7:30 p.m. "The Stratford Festival 1992: Shakespeare Et AI," Joseph Huebner, fine arts bibliographer. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by the Friends of the Library at Notre Dame. Admission Free. Tuesday 12:30 p.m. "When Leading Questions Fail to Lead: Spanish­English Interpreted Judicial Proceeding," Susan Berk­Seligson, University of Pittsburgh. Room C103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Admission free.  
MENU  
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Pot Roast a la Mode Thai Bar Baked Redfish Mexican Bar Cheese Ravioli Traditions  


26 Singer Patsy 27 Flower spike 29 Skirt style 30 Long or short 
weight 31 Eerie noises 32Assault 33 Midler or Davis 35 City on the 
Tag us 37 Renaissance sculptor 

55 Dollar bill 47 Some a 
56 Disney movie cappella songs 57 All but "u"
48 Available 58 Freeway exit 
50-comitatus 59 Cinco less dos
52 Unwelcome mosquito 60 New Deal letters 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Thursday, Sept. 24  Showings at  
8:00 and 10:30 p.m.  
REAL GENIUS  in Cushing Auditorium  
Price of admission is $2.00  

_.Friday and Saturday, 25 & 26 
~ut>ENT UNION BO'IRD 

LETHAL WEAPON 3 

.. 
Sports
page 20 
Monday, September 21, 1992 
DAVID 


Notre Dame passes by Michigan State 
KINNEY 
-

Offense thrives as 
Run the 'Bone 

defense sputters 
1-------------;By RICH KURZ 
Return to running 
game will bring 
back glory days 
"Rick Mirer is the focal point of our football team, but we are not going to throw the ball 40 times a game," said Holtz earlier in the season. "That's not our style, our nature, and I don't think that's our best chance to win." 
Holtz's words ring true, but it does not appear that Holtz is completely in control of the Notre Dame football team this year. What we are witnessing is a shift in offensive philosophy. 
Never was this truer than Saturday against Michigan State. From the start, the Irish offensive game plan was to pass and pass long. 
Prior to the game, Holtz asked his team to visualize the first play of the game, and later consulted Mirer, offensive coordinator Skip Holtz and re­ceiver Lake Dawson. All the players asked agreed on one play: Pass 53. 
Mirer came out firing and Dawson picked up a 43-yard gain. 
That play began a trend in the Irish offense, and by the end of the victory Notre Dame completed 16 passes for 331 yards on 30 attempts. 
On the flip side, Notre Dame ran for only 178 yards, a far cry from an offense that once ran for 315 yards against Miami in 1990. 
Holtz admitted his reservations after the game about the first play call, and seemed somewhat unsure about a total passing offense at the end of the day. "We had a lot of good throws and catches, but we were never very consistent on offense." 
Mirer is a good passer, but has not proven a consistent ability to win the games that matter the most. Granted, no quarterback can win a game single­handedly, but an offense keying on Mirer's passing ability has been unable to succeed fully. 
Evidence of this came during the final offensive series of the first half. Mirer completed three of nine passes with one interception. The stalled drive included only one run play. 
A running game is essential against a good defense. Penn State alone proved that in 1991, holding the Irish to 90 yards rushing and cruising to the win. 
Notre Dame's rushing corps has already shown great promise. But Jerome Bettis saw the ball only 14 
Associate Sports Editor 

EAST LANSING, Mich. -These are not easy times for the Michigan State football team. The Spartans lost for the second consecutive year to the Central Michigan Chippewas, after coming off a 3-8 season. 
Headhunters in East Lansing. hungry for a return to respectability, are demanding the ouster of George Perles, and the performance of the Notre Dame passing attack on Saturday couldn't have made any State fan happy. 
Irish quarterback Rick Mirer threw for three touchdowns and 260 yards, leading Notre Dame to a 52-31 victory. Junior wide receiver Lake Dawson was Mirer's primary target, catching five passes, all in the first half, for 126 yards and a touchdown. 
Michigan State took itself out of the game early, despite managing a 44-yard field goal from Jim Delverne on its first possession. The Spartans attempted to move the ball through the air in the first half, and the Irish picked off two passes by MSU quarterback Jim Miller and forced them to punt yet another time. 
When the Spartans finally scored a touchdown, they were down 31-10 with just under three minutes left in the half. 
Despite Michigan State's low point total at the half, it was able to run with some success against the Irish, and this helped them to roll up 21 second-half points. 
The Spartans ran for a total of 252 yards on 42 attempts (an average of 6.0 yards per carry), with tailbacks Craig Thomas going for 146 and Tico Duckett good for 96. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz wasn't happy with the play of his defense. 
"They ran the ball too much and completed too many passes," he said. "We didn't get any pressure on them. I was very disappointed defensively." 
As expected, Irish captain Demetrius DuBose was the focal point of the defense, leading the team in tackles with 10 and breaking up two pass·es. In a telling statistic for the Notre Dame defense, the four starters in the secondary combined for 29 tackles, as opposed to just 10 for the starters on the defensive line. 
Holtz also was dissatisfied with the Irish ground attack, which totalled only 178 yards on 45 carries against the ag­gressive Spartan defense. 
see IRISH /page 15 

The Observer/John Rock Receiver Lake Dawson was the recipient of five Rick Mirer passes, totaling 126 yards. 
Unleashing offense may result in more problems for Holtz 
BY GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -Lou Holtz gave the college football world a glimpse of the potency of the Notre Dame offense, Saturday, and didn't like it. 
After the game, a fiery Holtz ignored the most impressive half of offensive football in two seasons, focusing on the negative aspects of a Notre Dame offense which scored 52 points, managed 22 first downs, and totaled 509 yards total offense. 
"We need more balance offensively," commented Holtz. "I would have liked to run the ball more. We threw the ball be­cause we couldn't run the football. "We had to convert to many third and longs." 
times for 76 yards and Reggie Brooks 
gained only 56 yards on 10 carries. A 
faltering offensive line was, in part, 
responsible for the poor Irish running 
attack, but there is no reason for Notre 
Dame to give up more yards on the 
ground than the Irish gained. 
Holtz coached an Irish team led by 
Tony Rice in 1989 that passed the ball 
only two times, winning 19-17 over 
Michigan. Given the chance, Bettis, 
Reggie Brooks and Lee Becton can give 
a similar ground attack. 
Holtz needs to give the Notre Dame 
football team new direction by 
returning to the strategies he used 
during his years of success. 
But for now, gone are the days when 
the coach exalted over victories for the 
spirit of Notre Dame. 
And it seems that so are the days of 
an offense dominated by the run. 
INSIDE SPORTS 




The Observer/Jake Peters Michelle McCarthy was a key contributor in both Irish wins over the weekend. 
Holtz comments may be valid, but the 
accuracy of the Notre Dame passing 
offense in the first half is something 
which can't be ignored. 
Mirer exploded for 253 yards in the air, 
the highest first half passing total in the 
Holtz era. With a total of 24 pass 
attempts, Mirer eclipsed his highest ca­
reer game total of 23, which came 
against Navy last season. 
The reason Holtz gave for the outburst 
in aerial offense centered on the 
Michigan State defense. 
"Michigan State disrupted our running 
game, so we had to throw a little more 
than we wanted to," said Holtz. "We 
threw the ball because we couldn't run 
see HOLTZ /page 15 
Women's soccer breezes past Dayton 
BY GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team used an aggressive offense and a physical defense to top Michigan State and Dayton over the weekend, raising its record to 4­1-1. 
On Friday. the Irish visited East Lansing, Michigan and left with a 4-0 victory. Tiffany Thompson started the scoring on a penalty kick in the opening period, a little under fifteen minutes into the game. 
Thompson's goal was the lone score in the half, but the second half brought a barrage of Irish goals. Freshman Rosella Guerrero scored on a header two minutes into the half, on a cross from fellow freshman Breck Reischman. 
Junior Allison Lester continued the scoring with an unassisted goal near the halfway point of the period. Lester's goal was followed by freshmen Ragen Coyne's successful foul kick with under two minutes remaining in the game. 
"We played very well," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. "For the first time all 
see KICKERS /page14 





