The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 67 TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S Marines to land Wed., begin to help starving 
relief supplies, relief workers and relief recipients," Oakley said. 
Aid groups say half the food donated for starving Somalis has been stolen by the gangs of gunmen who have held sway during a nearly 2-year-old civil war. An estimated 300,000 Somalis have died from starva­tion, disease and fighting this year, and 250,000 more are feared to be in imminent dan­ger. 
Underscoring the chaos, rival militiamen battled for a second day in Baidoa, one of the inland towns hit hardest by famine. A spokesman for the international relief agency CARE, Rick Grant, said at least 48 people were killed and 50 wounded Monday. 
Grant said at least 28 and possibly 34 died in fighting Sunday between feuding clansmen. 
Michael McDonagh, an official of the Irish relief agency Concern, said relief workers feared Somali militiamen would go on a last-minute spree of shooting and stealing. 
"They know that come to­morrow the gravy train is over. The next 24 hours are going to be very crucial," McDonagh said. 
Pentagon: 
Mission will 

be difficult 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The bulk of U.S. troops may not get ashore in Somalia until days after a Marine van­guard lands because of poor conditions at Mogadishu's port and nearby airfields, Pentagon officials said Mon­day. 
Bringing nearly 30,000 soldiers into a country that has been devastated by war­ring bandit clans requires a massive effort, especially since no supplies of fuel or water exist, nor modern means to tr.ansport them, the officials said. 
"Expectations are pretty high, but people have to un­derstand how difficult it will be to get in there," said one senior military officer. 
"We can drop thousands of men on the airfields, but who's going to feed 'em after a while?" said a second officer. 
Both commented only on condition their names not be used. 
Plans now call for the first wave of several hundred Marines to enter Mogadishu early Wednesday to begin "Operation Restore Hope" aimed at saving thousands of Somalis from starvation. 


MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP) ­Somalis got their first look at 
U.S. power Monday when Navy warplanes roared over Mo­gadishu, and Pentagon sources said Marines would land at dawn Wednesday to begin helping the starving people. 
The 1,800 Marines standing offshore on three Navy ships are the vanguard of a multina­tional rescue mission in the war and famine-wracked na­tion. But Pentagon sources said most of the 28,000 U.S. soldiers and Marines committed to the operation might not begin ar­riving for several days. 
Robert Oakley, a special U.S. envoy and former U.S. ambas­sador to Somalia, arrived Mon­day to meet with leaders of Somalia's warring clan leaders and with international aid workers to outline plans for the U.S.-led operation. He stressed that Washington envisioned a humanitarian effort and not a military one. 
Oakley told reporters the U.N.-authorized operation would be the opposite of Desert Storm, the mammoth military campaign that dislodged the Iraqi army from Kuwait nearly two years ago. 
"We hope it will remain a humanitarian operation all the way through, because the pur­pose is to protect deliveries of 
Students advise CLC, Student Senate on du Lac rape policy 
By EMILY HAGE News Writer 
Revision of the section of du Lac concerning rape would help victims, according to Campus Alliance for Rape Awareness 
(C.A.R.E. ), which spoke to the Campus Life Commission Monday. 
C.A.R.E. updated the CLC on the rape situation at Notre Dame so the CLC can help in­fluence change in du Lac to make it "more user-friendly," said C.A.R.E. member Rich Delevan. Members said stu­dents need information to cor­rect misconceptions and to seek help. 
"It is important that we come up with a cohesive policy. What we have is good. We can make it better," said Sheila Buckman, 
C.A.R.E. member. When policies are clarified. Buckman said, the number of reported rapes will go up, the issue will be taken more seriously, and changes will be made to aid rape victims. 
"It is a process of continual dialogue," said Delevan. 
One of the main problems concerning rape on campus is that victims are afraid of reporting it, Buckman said. 

The Observer/ T.J. Harris 

Creative readings 
Astrid Fingerhut, a second-year NO graduate student in the Creative Writing Program, shares some of her work yesterday in the Hesburgh Library at a program, "Works in Progress: A reading." 
"Du Lac could be very helpful in helping people to report rape," she said, adding that a student government study on sexuality found that 29 percent of rape victims did not report their rapes because they were afraid of losing their privacy. 
"[Rape victims] are scared about what's going to happen and who's going to find out," Buckman said. Consequently, they are not included in the statistics, and often do not seek needed medical attention. 
C.A.R.E. members suggested many changes to improve the 
see CLC I page 4 
4 die in fire at college in Illinois 

CARBONDALE, Ill. (AP) ­Friends of four Asian-born col­lege students killed in an arson fire looked for ways Monday to help the victims' families, while investigators sought whoever torched the students' apart­ment building. 
The four Southern Illinois University students died Sunday when fire raced through the upper floors of the three-story off-campus building that housed mostly international students. At least 14 people were injured, including some who were hurt jumping out of windows. 
One of the injured, Mazlina Ab Wahid, 2 8, was on a life­support system Monday. 
"We didn't think something like this could happen in this country," said her friend Aznen 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 

Sheila Buckman, a Siegfried Hall residence assistant, ad­dressed the Student Senate meeting Monday and recom­mended changes in the du Lac policy concerning rape at Notre Dame. 
Currently there is no policy concerning rape in du Lac, ac­cording to Buckman. 
Du Lac will undergo revi­sions this spring in which Buckman hopes to propose the following recommendations: 

Ngah, an accounting student. The two came to this country from Malaysia last August. 
"She always was teaching me how to live in the United States, how to survive and find a good friend," Ngah said. 
James Quisenberry, the uni­versity's director of interna­tional programs, said at least a dozen of Wahid's friends were staying outside her hospital room. Her family was expected to arrive soon from Malaysia, he said. 
Police Chief Don Strom said the fire was set but the crime wasn't believed to be racially motivated. 
Investigators refused to say how the fire started. No arrests were made. 
• 
a clear definition declaring rape as sex without af­firmative consent. 

• 
a distinction between re­porting a rape and pressing charges. 

• 
no reports to the Office of Residence Life or the infirmary if a rape victim checks into a hospital fur medical care. 

• 
an easy, less threatening procedure for reporting rapes. 

• 
consistent records of rape reports to be kept by the con-


see Senate/page 4 

---~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

It takes more than good hair to be a star 
I finally got the call Wednesday. 
Many, many weeks after signing up (and two weeks after shaving the sideburns I had grown for it), the people making the movie "Rudy" asked me to 
be an extra for the movie. My big break into 

Paul Pearson 
associate news editor 
Hollywood. Glitz, glamour and hobnobbing with the stars idolized by half the free world (and gossiped about by the other halO. 
Then, I went to the filming place. 
Friday at 11 a.m. I arrived in the basement o the Knights of Columbus building with two changes of clothing. First they took me to the wardrobe trailer. Apparently, the clothes I had brought weren't right for the scene, and I got a 70s-style set of clothes. 
I wasn't sure whether to be angry that my clothes were no good or relieved that I didn't own any real 70s fashion. 
Next, we were taken back to the K of C, where I was given over to a hairdresser. After 20 minutes of scissors and spray, I had an Art Garfunkel-esque afro. 
After that, the other extras and I had some lunch. If nothing else, we had a decent meal for all our trouble. Any chance to avoid a Dining Hall lunch for free cannot be all that bad. After lunch, we waited. And waited. 
-Every 90 minutes or so, a few of the extras, the students and the actors there to play priests (they needed extras to play priests at Notre Dame?) were dismissed. However, three of us, Corey, Sally and myself, spent all day in the K o C basement waiting for our call and were paid minimum wage to stick around and wait. 
To entertain ourselves, we played cards, told each other the stories of our lives and hatched all sorts of plots to annoy the movie people (like taking one of their walkie-talkies and sending an electrician on a phony mission to the Stepan Center). 
At around 7:30 p.m., we were hungry and restless, and I was wondering if this was how Jack Nicholson got his start. Deciding that they wouldn't need us for a while, we went upstairs to order some pizza. 
That's when they sent for us. 
Because it was now night, the directors had decided to shoot a scene where Rudy goes to the Grotto, lights a bunch of candles and prays for guidance. They needed the three of us to be in the background for this scene. One guy (Corey) was to walk by the Grotto during the scene, while two others (Sally and myselO kneeled and prayed. 
By that time, the sun had set, the temperature had plunged well below freezing and the wind was at least at gale-strength. Because of the cold weather, I got a wool cap to wear, putting my new haircut to waste. 
For the next hour or so, in the bitter cold of a December night, I knelt on a metal bar at the Grotto with my hands clenched in a pseudo­prayer (the only thing I was praying for was warmth) filming a 20-second scene that probably won't ever be seen. Ah, show business. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
News Sports 
Sandy Wiegand Brian Kubicki 
Bevin Kovalik 

Accent Production Mara Divis Kim Massman Sarah Doran Kira Hutchinson 
Susan~~---------------------­
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
'----------------------­

The Observer 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
L ~ CUI 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Recession stunts holiday sales 

•LONDON -'Tis the season for holiday shopping, but the recession has silenced the jingle in many a cashbox around the world. The brisk bustle of shopping seasons past is missing, from London's high streets to the Ginza shopping district in Tokyo to the Left Bank of Paris. The reason: a gloomy economy has shattered the confidence of many consumers. But at least one securities analyst who follows the retailing trade thinks 1992 might not turn out as bad as 1991, when many stores became desperate and started chopping prices weeks before Christmas. "We cer­tainly have not had the panic price-cutting like we had last year, which is probably a good sign," said Nick Bub b. retailing analyst. 
NATIONAL 

Malcolm X's assassin denied parole 
•ALBANY, 
N.Y. -The last of three men convicted of killing Malcolm X lost his second parole bid in a month and will have to spend two more years in jail before he is eligible for release again, parole commissioners ruled. Thomas Hagan, 51, was denied parole by a three-member panel of commissioners who said he should stay in prison because of the seriousness of his crime, parole spokesman David Ernst said. The ruling Wednesday marked the seventh time Hagan has been denied his freedom by a state parole board. Hagan was granted the new hearing because of the circumstances of the November hearing, in which one board member favored release, one opposed it and the third abstained. 

•WASHINGT 
N -President-elect Clinton plans to make several major appointments over the next week, building an economic team of white men and naming women to several other top posts, advisers said Monday. The secretive selection process generated an ever-growing frenzy of speculation. Senior transition aides said Clinton was likely to name a few women and minorities to major administration posts in the next week to 10 days to signal a commitment to his pledge of a Cabinet that "looks like America." Clinton wants to ensure there is diversity among early appointments "so we don't get sidetracked by what would be ultimately groundless criticism," said one adviser. The first announcements are likely Thursday. 



MARKET UPDATE 

MONDAY'S TRADING December 7 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 217,713,000 + 1.59 to 239.36 S&P COMPOSITE +3.25 to 435.31 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +18.65 to 3,307.33 

UNCHANGED 533 

GOLD 

+50.40 to $337.00 oz 
SILVER +$0.005 to $3.788 oz 


-------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, December 8, 1992 The Observer page 3 
Explosion rocks Virginia coal mine; traps miners 
NORTON, Va. (AP) -An ex­plosion rocked an underground coal mine early Monday, trap­ping eight miners about a mile inside. One miner crawled to safety, authorities said. 
Relatives gathered at the mine in the heart of Appalachia to await word. 
Among them was the sister of 30-year-old Brian Owens. ''I'd say if he's feeling like we are, he's scared to death," said Melissa Honaker. 
"You think you're going to come out of there every time and you never know when it's going to blow up." 
The miner who crawled out had been working closer to an entrance than those trapped, said Mike Abbott of the state Division of Mines office in Big Stone Gap. He suffered burns. 
Eighteen rescue squad units converged on the mine near the Guest River, about five miles outside Norton, a city of about 4,000 people in the southwestern corner of Vir­ginia. 
Rescuers wearing oxygen 
masks entered the mine about four hours after the explosion to check whether gases may be present and assess the danger, Abbott said. 
The explosion also severely damaged the office building at South Mountain Coal Co. mine No. 3, said Wise County Sheriff Bill Kelley. 
There was no word on the cause of the blast. Explosions in coal mines can be caused by ignition of airborne coal dust or methane, a naturally occurring gas in coal seams, although 

Law may halt lead poisoning 
Will require that home buyers be warned 
ATLANTA (AP) -New federal legislation will help the nation meet its goal of eliminating childhood lead poisoning in 20 years, scientists said today. 
"We must begin to prevent lead poisoning before it occurs," said Dr. William Roper, director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "We are waiting until children's blood lead levels are so high that we think the child's brain is affected.... That's simply too late." 
Lead poisoning, which the CDC calls the most serious en­vironmental threat faced by America's children, is linked primarily to paint in older homes. It can stunt a child's intellectual, behavioral and physical development. 
Doctors and public health of­ficials opened a three-day meeting at the CDC today to map a strategy to fight lead poi­soning and eliminate it by the year 2012. 
The new legislation, signed this fall by President Bush and effective in 1995, will require that home buyers be informed about lead paint in a house be­fore they buy. It also requires certification of businesses that remove lead from homes, and increases grants to the states for testing and treating children. 
The challenge now is to get lead out ,of the estimated 2 mil­lion American homes that have it, said scientists at today's meeting. 
That will require a $10 billion investment, but it's less costly than the $4,631 required for treating each of the estimated 3 million American children who have reached dangerous levels of lead poisoning, said Dr. Her­bert Needleman of the Univer­sity of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. 
"It makes economic sense as safety measures suppress dust and ventilation systems remove or dilute methane. 


By midday, rescuers had not been able to communicate with the trapped miners, said a mine employee who would not give his name. 
"They probably barricaded themselves in to hold what air they had until rescue workers could reach them," the em­ployee said. 
Each miner carries a mask and about an hour of oxygen, rescue workers said. Large oxygen tanks mounted periodi­cally along the mine walls are the only other possible source of oxygen, said Gene Conley, a mine employee. 
The explosion destroyed the mine's power system, prevent­ing authorities from ventilating the mine, said Michael Lawless, a Virginia Mine Safety and Health Administration spokesman at the scene. He did not know if a fire was burning underground. 
"We definitely know there are eight inside," Abbott said. 
Don t e so excited, you still have one more year to go.
Happy 20th Paul Failla! 
From, Marco & Bob 

$1400 Scholarship for eight weeks of your summer devoted to service work 
In cities of Alumni Clubs all over the country 
INFORMATION MEETING 
DEC. 8 
6:00 PM 
at the Canter for Social Concerns 
page 4 1he uoserver 1 uesday, uecemoer b, 1~~~ 

The Observer/ T.J. Harris 
Environmentally conscious 
In an effort to help save the environment, Mike Ebner gathers newspapers yesterday in Dillon Hall for 
recycling. 
SENATE 
continued from page 1 

cerned departments at Notre Dame. 
• 
a more delicate judicial pro­cess for rape than for other problems such as breaking the alcohol policy. 

• 
a "victim's bill of rights" in which the victim is guaranteed the following: presence at ev­ery judicial hearing, an advo­cate to represent and speak for the victim at every judicial hearing, freedom from expos­ing one's sexual history and the right to be informed immedi­ately about the outcome of the procedure. 


CLC 
continued from page 1 

judicial process in respect to rape victims. Buckman said the victim should be present at all trials involved, should be informed immediately of the outcome of the trial, and the victim's sexual history should be kept confidentiaL 
An advocate who is well­versed in the judicial process should accompany the victim at every stage of the judicial pro­cess and should be allowed to speak on her behalf, Buckman said, and there should be a uni­• University commitment to programs that will educate stu­dents and staff about rape. Buckman is seeking support from the Senate and the Notre Dame student body to back these recommendations. In other business, Senate moved to send a banner to Southern Illinois University. The university experienced a fire Sunday in which four students were killed and fourteen were injured. "After last year, we know what is feels like to lose students in a tragedy," said Student Body President Greg Butrus. "Notre Dame received a lot of support from other schools, now it's our turn to give." 
form method of reporting rapes. 
Buckman also proposed sev­eral preventive measures. She said that because first-year women in their first semester are at the highest risk, fresh­men should be required to at­tend rape prevention presenta­tions offered by C.A.R.E. Presently, they speak only on an invitation-only basis. She also said resident assistants, rectors, and assistant rectors should be trained to help vic­tims. 
C.A.R.E. members also sug­gested that help be offered to students who are affected by the rape of a loved-one. 
Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 , '94 school year Call232 , 8256 for info and scheduled showings 
·­

BANNER 
continued from page 1 

President Greg Butrus, who is awaiting final approval for its placement. Four students were killed and 14 were injured when a fire broke out in an off-campus apartment building. More than 20,000 students attend the school in Carbondale, Ill. 
"The outpouring of support we received from many com­munities and many universities last year after the bus tragedy makes us realize how significant the show of support can be to a university facing a similar loss," said Student Body President Greg Butrus. 
The banner will be available for signing until Friday. 
Radical South Africans declare war on whites 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -Nelson Mandela on Monday condemned attacks on whites at a restaurant and golf club by a radieal black group and said talks on ending 
derailed. 

The radieal group, the Aza­nian People's Liberation Army, says it has declared war on whites. The group took re­sponsibility for recent attacks in whieh five white civilians were killed. 
Mandela said his African Na­tional Congress opposed the Azanian group. "We condemn any use of force against civil­ians, whether black or white and we think it is unaeeeptable that innocent eivilians should be killed -for any reason," he said during a visit to Namibia. 
lie said he was confident the attacks would not disrupt talks between the white minority 

• Graduating? 
HEALTH INSURANCE? 
• 
19 or older and maybe no longer covered under your parent's policy? 

• 
Between jobs? 

• 
Need better coverage? 



Call Georgia Mead at Acordia Collegiate 
Benefits at 1-800-257-6821 or (317) 885-2059. 
CALL TODAY FOR LOW COST IMMEDIATE 
health insurance coverage! 
~rdia8• Acordia Collegiate • -_,_... Benefits 
government, the ANC and other parties on ending apartheid and sharing power with the blaek majority. 
President F. W. de Klerk eondemned the Azanian at­taeks Monday and said the gov­ernment was considering emergency steps to halt the violence. He gave no details. 
The Azanian group claimed late Sunday it plans operations in 19 eities and towns around South Africa, including Cape Town and Pretoria. Police ear­lier warned the country may face a Christmas bombing campaign. 
The group took responsibility for a Dee. 3 bombing of a restaurant, in which one white was killed, and a Nov. 28 gun and grenade attack on a coun­try club, in which four whites died. 
DO YOU NEED 

Come participate in the 

Tuesday, December 8, 1992 The Observer 
3 Israelis killed by Palestinians 
page 5 

JERUSALEM (AP) -Three Israeli reservists were killed early Monday when Palestinian guerrillas raked their patrol with gunfire in the occupied Gaza Strip, the army said. 
The attack came just hours before Arab-Israeli peace talks reconvened in Washington. The Muslim fundamentalist group Hamas, which opposes the talks, claimed responsibility and said it would intensify its attacks to mark the beginning of the sixth year of the Pales­tinian uprising, which began Dec. 9, 1987. 
The government retaliated by announcing that Palestinians from the Gaza Strip would be barred from entering Israel starting Tuesday morning. 
It was the worst attack on Is­raeli troops since February, when three soldiers were hacked to death at their train­ing base in northern Israel by fundamentalist Israeli-Arabs. 
"If they believe that this will bring about a decision by Israel to put an end to peace negotia­tions, they are wrong," Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said during a visit to Italy. 
Rabin, in an interview with Israel radio, acknowledged that sealing off Gaza would increase internal tensions in the coastal strip. But he said the govern­ment was more concerned with protecting Israeli citizens. 
The order to seal Gaza could take a serious toll on the coastal strip's economy, which depends heavily on jobs in Israel. About 30,000 Gaza workers cross daily into the Jewish state through heavily guarded checkpoints, U.N. officials said. 
The army patrol was hit as it passed through a Gaza City neighborhood. Armed men in a passing car opened fire, then circled back and fired again, officers said. 
Palestinians at an army roadblock nearby said the as­sailants shouted "Ailahu Ak­bar," or God is great, the rally­ing cry of Islamic militants. 
Two of the reservists were identified as 1st Lt. Hagai Amit, 24, and Sgt. Udi Zamir, 23. The name of the third victim was not immediately released. 
In leaflets distributed in the Gaza Strip, Hamas said the ambush was carried out by its Izzadin Qassam Group. 

•••• Al vv&!Mvo©!M ~Jl(Jj)!PJ&!Mm • • • • 
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS SALE UNIQUE NOTRE DAME DESIGNS 
~ 

THE GOLF SHOP AT NOTRE DAME DECEMBER 9, 10, 11 FROM 9:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M. lN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
PRICES REDUCED ON CLOSE-OUT 
MERCHANDISE 
BRING YOUR ID CARD FOR AN ADDITIONAL 10% OFF • .~coS-ctio ~ \ 1c., '0 1~ ........ (3 SALE DAYS ONLYl) 
The Observer/ T.J. Harris 

Buried treasure 
With a metal detector he borrowed yesterday from Radio Shack, senior Tom Faller searches for his keys which he lost in the snow. 
India bans fundamentalists 
NEW DELHI, India (AP) -gulfed dozens of towns across The government moved to ban India after Hindu zealots de­fundamentalist groups and stroyed a Muslim mosque in sent the army into Bombay to northern India on Sunday and secure order Monday after began building a Hindu temple religious riots broke out across at the site . India, leaving about 200 The sacking of the Babtl Hindus and Muslims dead. Masjid mosque enraged India's 
Fighting with firebombs, Muslim neighbors, Pakistan knives, axes and stones en-and Bangladesh, spurred calls 
JUNIORS: 
Turn in pictures and videotapes NOW to your Junior Class Council Representative 
OR 

You will not be included in the 
1993 JPW AUDIO-VISUAL PRESENTATION 
All pictures and tapes will be returned. 
P.S. Without your contribution, (Yes, this is an ultimatum) 
have fun watching a video about my friends! P.P.S. Thanks for your support. 
-The JPW Brunch Chairperson 
Deadline: Friday De.cember 11 
AI CI.IUST.M..iS CEI..EJJ.R..iT.IfJ.H 
ntE I-ISPMIC MERIC:AH CHW<IZATICW A1H..W...L V SPONSORS A P0SA0ot. ·A Bll..»«lUAU. CEl.£8RAnoN 
OF MARY AND JOSEf>HS...IOUWEY TO BETK.EHEM A RECEPT10f\l WILL Fa..LOW W D1U.0HS tW.L'S TV RXM F'l.£ASE~USI!I 
DATE: TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1992 TIME: 7:00PM PLACE: POSADA -STEPS OF THE MAIN BLDG RECEPTION -DILLON HALL 
<»~"' 

HISPANIC ·AMEftCAH ClRI:iNQAT1CJoi 1*01. 
c:r.A:)f'IWI'.'t'Ef¥,. CMliR GIO.P. 
1Hln£a:R:~Ea....::Rl'Yst\.181TIIFFNW. 


Get Your Rallpasscs For 1993 at 1991 Prices! •Eurlil Raipas 5w~n 15 day; SilO• •Youth Ratpas 15 w!ln 2months SUO• •Youth 1month pas suo• 
~es scheduled to rise as much os 20% on 
Jon 1,1993. Passes Issued In 1992 •~ good for~, 
1r VIllidoted within six months from lssuo: dote. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Deabom St, 2nd Rca Cilicago, II 6061 0 

311·951·0585 
Call for a Free copy of The 
Student Travels Magazine! 
for the ouster of Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao and threatened widescale violence among India's 700 million Hindus and 100 million Muslims. 
HOUSES FoR RENT 93-94 4 & 5-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers 
287-4989 

Listed with off­
campus housing 


..-------­
-~-­

page b rne uoserver I Ut:I:>Ucty, Ut:ll;t:IIIIUt:ll O, I ::r::lt::: 
Clinton hesitant to agree with reports of economic recovery 
NOW HIRING 
Responsible woman to work 2·8 hours per week as 
PERSONAL ASSISTANT 
for physically handicapped female N D student on campus Call Kim 289·4831 
. Prep Plus'" . · For the MCAT:. The Best Medical Insurance 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you 'II score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Best"' guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisfied with your MCAT score, we'II let you repeat the entire course ...at no charge! 
We offer expert live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited review in our TEST-N-TAPE,. labs and lots of personal anention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined! 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan OrTakeYour Chances 
REGISTRATION FOR THE MCAT CLASS IS: November 30 to December 15 
PHONE: 272-4135 Today! 
with congressional groups and audience of about 100 students On the verge of announcing policymakers. at the Wilbur Wright Commu­his economic team -he's ex­Fielding questions that dealt nity College. ''I'll look into it." pected to nominate Texas Sen. exclusively with domestic is­Clinton has proposed an ex­Lloyd Bentsen as treasury sec­sues, Clinton even said he panded student loan program retary later this week -Clinton would ponder one student's for all college students under appeared to be seeking to suggestion that college costs be which borrowers would have dampen expectations that a made tax deductible. the option of paying back the spate of upbeat economic indi­
"I don't know, I never thought loans through public service cators over the past few weeks of that," Clinton told an jobs. spell better times ahead. 
Female reps draft position statement 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The elect Deborah Pryce, a enough money to serve all 18 female newcomers to the Republican from Ohio. needy pre-schoolers. House took just an hour "I think perhaps it's just the Lawmakers have given the Monday to draft a position way women work," she said. program enough money to statement on their priorities: "The dynamic of the group serve only a fraction of Head Start, family leave and when the room was totally eligible children. abortion legislation, and bet­female was very different ter protection against sexual than other meetings I've been The women also said they'll harassment for women in. It's hard to explain." push for legislation working on Capitol Hill. The 15 Democratic and guaranteeing workers the 
"One thing I was amazed at three Republican women said right to unpaid leave when was how easily the women their first priority will be to there's an illness or other put this together," said Rep.-get the Head Start program family emergency. 
Members of Sacred Heart Parish and the Office of Campus Ministry · cordially invite you to join in a joyous evening of music and prayer for the Christmas Midnight Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart as a member of the Community Christmas Choir. 
Rehearsals will be held on Mondays, December 7, 14, 21 
7:00 pm -8:30 pm Crowley Hall of Music 
All ages are most welcome to join us Dr. Gail Walton on this joyous celebration Director of Music, BSH of the Lord's birth. Mr. Steven Warner 
J
Director of Liturgical Music Services 
.. 
..
J 
YOU are invited to be a part of a small Christian community. 
G~ther as a mixed group ofmen and women students to pray, to reflect upon Scripture, and to discuss the issues that challenge us as Adult Christians. 
ties 
o 
meetings twice monthly, according to your schedule 

o 
all student -led, with resources providedby Campus Ministry 


o sign ups from now until December17in the BadinHall and Library 
offices of Campus Ministry ...put yourbooks away for a few minutes and sign up TODAY! 
o questions? Just come on inand ask! 
0f'0PUS 
-
N1JNISTRY 

Badin tlall • {,\nive~si~ ofNot~e Dame • Not~e Dame, J.,diano 46556 • (219) 2.39-5242 
CHICAGO, (AP) -President­elect Clinton on Monday gave mixed reviews to recent reports suggesting a recovering economy, saying times remain hard for many even though "we may be coming out" of the longest recession since World War II. 
"Sometimes the headlines 
WASHINGTON (AP) -House Speaker Thomas Foley promised a productive partner­ship with President-elect Clin­ton on Monday as Democrats anointed him and his leader­ship team for two more years. But Republicans struck a con­frontational pose, ousting a moderate leader in favor of a combative conservative. 
"Americans, having chosen the Democratic Party to lead the country ... have placed a heavy responsibility upon us," Foley told reporters. "I sense a new beginning, renewal. ... " 
As both parties convened to elect their leaders for the com­ing two years, Republicans elected Texas Rep. Richard Armey over incumbent Califor­nian Jerry Lewis to chair the House Republican Conference, the organization of all GOP House members. The vote was seem so in conflict with tho personal experiences people are having," Clinton said during a question and answer session at a community college in a working-class section of Chicago. 
He made the stop on his way to Washington for a two-day visit that will include meetings 
88 to 84. 
"Compromise is not going to be in the vocabulary" in the session of Congress that begins Jan. 5, complained Rep. Sher­wood Boehlert, R-N.Y., a member of the party's shrinking moderate wing. 
Along with Foley, D-Wash., Democrats re-elected Majority Leader Richard Gephardt, D­Mo., and Majority Whip David Bonior, D-Mich. They also ex­panded the leadership team to include a Hispanic, Rep. Bill Richardson, D-N.M., as a fourth chief deputy whip. 
Republicans retained by ac­clamation Minority Leader Bob Michel of Illinois and Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia. 
Later, a Democratic leadership panel ousted Rep. Jamie Whitten, D-Miss., as chairman of the Appropriations Commit­tee after 14 years at its helm. 

House chooses leaders, without major changes 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~ 
Business 
Tuesday, December 8, 1992 page 7 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Ad spending estimate for '92 reduced 
Northwest to receive Jingnciai.Qid NEW YORK (AP) --The advertising 
•NEW YORK-Northwest~,llliijf}sanr;:vu:ncel.l industry's best-known forecaster a dose of financial relief Monday, saying lenders trimmed his estimate of 1992 ad have agreed to provide more money and .aircraft spending growth Monday by a half makerswill let the strappe!i Q~rier · percentage point to 4.5 percent but cancel $6.2 billion in plane .grdt)J,'S' ..N..<J!t~tlW•~strM said he expects a 6. 9 percent will borrow $250 million from banks;··"'s·\!PIJ1ll~1rs increase next year. and other investors to fund .nn...r,ttii>n~ Robert Coen, a senior executive at the typically slow winter travel seasc the ad agency McCann-Erickson 
Worldwide, blamed a sluggish economic recovery and weak spending growth by local advertisers for the downward revision for 1992. 

reorganization of th~ 'M~t~1~l~~···~~s~·~ 
Coen, who has been making annual 

means 200,000 claims··"'fnrut·.a.n.nul; 
forecasts of ad spending for 20 

will remain unpaid until resolution 
years, has been faulted in the past and worker health crisis ··~·'~""'···""""'l''"'"'' 
as excessively optimistic. 

solution. Ironically, the Indeed, he initially estimated 1992 
now 2 years old, w 
growth at 6.2 percent last December payments to workers or but scaled that back to 5 percent in say asbestos-containing June.

former Jt)bns·Man\lille illnesses. 
The researcher told the opening session of the weeklong PaineWebber Media Conference that the pickup in the economy and recent performance in key segments of the media business are signaling brisker growth next year. 

dimmer view of growth prospects for 
1992 expenditures 
1993 as he followed Coen to the
of all advertisers 
microphone.
%over

In mllions 
The Zenith Media chairman and
of dollars 1991 
chief executive estimated U.S. ad 
Local Newspapers + 2.0% $27,260 
spending growth rose a slim 0.6 
Local Television + 8.0 8,170 
percent in 1992 and will be up 3.2 
Local Radio + 6.0 6,800 
percent next year. 
Yellow Pages + 1.5 8,140 
"There will be steady improvement 
Other Local Media + 5.0 5,300 
but no great bounceback until 
economic conditions improve,"
Total Local + 3.5% $ 55,670 
Perriss said. 
Total National + 5.3 76,460 
Grand Total + 4.5 132,130 
G 
He said his estimates differ from 
Coen's because they exclude In billions of dollars 1 $13
U.S. Advertising Growth 
spending on direct mail and other 
150 . . .............................•.............··· 
specialized media. He has also generally been optimistic about 
... . 
I 

spending trends. A year ago, he forecast a 1.2 percent rise in U.S. ad spending for 1992, five full percent­
100~ 
__. 
~-~­
[··· 

age points below Coen's estimate. 50 
All three spending forecasts 
include the effect of inflation . Ad spending projections for 1992 
•. 
.. 
~·" 
-
o_ 

'­
-
were compared to the worst year for 
1984 '86 '88 '90 '92 
the U.S. ad business in a half­
Source: McCann • Erickson Worldwide 
century. Ad spending fell 1.5 percent 
AP/C::trl Fox 

in 1991 in its first decline in 30 
TWA to emerge from bankruptcy protection 
WASHINGTON (AP) --Trans World Airlines owner Carl Ic­ahn has agreed to provide fi­nancing for TWA and to guar­antee certain pension pay­ments, clearing the way for the airline to emerge from bankruptcy court protection, officials said Monday. 
lcahn agreed to provide $200 million in financing to TWA and up to $200 million in contribu­tions to TWA's existing pension plans. 
If the pension plans are ter­minated, he would pay up to $240 million more over eight years to the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp., the federal 
agency that backs pension plans. 
Under the plan, Icahn --who has owned more than 80 per­cent of TWA -would relin­quish control of the airline upon final approval of the agreement by the bankruptcy court, which is expected in about 30 days. 
After it emerges from bankruptcy, TWA's creditors will own 55 percent of the company and its unionized em­ployees will own 45 percent. 
The agreement came in weekend bargaining with the government as well as TWA creditors and unions. The air­line came under heavy pressure to reach a deal because of a looming cash shortage. 
"We will come out fighting fit," said Robin Wilson, one of TWA's two management committee members. He said he expects TWA to emerge from bankruptcy protection in the spring of 1993. 
Icahn said, "Our infusion of $200 million into the airline, if used wisely, combined with the concessions made by the unions and the creditors, should bring about a TWA that will not only survive, but will prosper, in a very troubled industry." 
TWA's reorganization plan, to be submitted to the bankruptcy court Jan. 12, would reflect the elimination of more than $1 billion in debt as well as wage and benefit reductions of about 15 percent, totaling about $660 million over three years, which were agreed to in September, TWA officials said. 
The dispute over the under­funded pension plans had been the last major obstacle to the sale of TWA to its creditors and employees. 
In October, the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp. dropped its demand that the carrier first settle its $1.2 billion pension fund shortfall. 
Credit card debt rises 
. 
agatn 
WASHINGTON (AP) Americans took out their credit cards again in October, pushing overall installment credit to its first back-to-hack increase in a year, the government said Monday. 
Consumer debt outstanding rose 0.4 percent, at a season­ally adjusted annual rate, after a 2.4 percent increase in September, the Federal Re­serve said. 
Economists said that's a sign Americans gradually were regaining their optimism in the economy just before the start of the crucial holiday shopping season. 
"The consumer seems more confident. He seems to be more willing to go out there and put down some money," said economist David Wyss of DRI-McGraw Hill, a Lexington, Mass., forecasting firm. "But I don't think we're out of the woods yet. There's still a chance this recovery could stall out again, as have the last two." 
Before the latest gains, con­sumer credit had been down for eight straight months and for 13 of the previous 16 months. The last back-to­hack increase came in September-October 1991. 
Consumers' spending ac­counts for roughly two-thirds of all economic activity, so their willingness to borrow is a key to how long a recovery can be sustained. 
Until recently, consumers had been very cautious in the face of stagnant income and an uncertain job outlook. Also, many people have been striving to reduce debt built up over the 1980s. 

•MAYNARD, Mass.-Digital . · ·.. c.· will be handing out pink slips over the next two weeks to accomplish the bulk of the 6,000 layoffs planned this quarter before Christmas, a spokeswoman said. Robert Palmer, preiddent of 
the money-losing computer maker, has said that 
., Digital 'eventuali~Yf expects to reduce its work force to under 90,000 employees ove.t next few years. 

Bank Machines to be linked , i 
•PHILADELPHIA-Five netwotks of automated teller machines will be linked by next summer, giving 26 million card holders access to 13,000 machines in 16 states, officials .satd. The joint network announced Monday will include the Money Access Center, or MAC, machines that serve 18.6 million card holders in seven states, primarily in the Mid-Atlantic region. 
GM never asked laccoca 
•HIGHLAND PARK, Mich.-Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee Iacocca said he was prepared to offer a week's worth of his crisis management skill to stumbling General Motors Corp;~J:nit was never asked. Iacocca, who made his offer Mon­day, twice rescued Chrysler from disaster. The first time was in 1979 wMn.. the automake:r teetered on bankruptcy. The second seare came· in the late 1980s when accumulated debt, Japanese competition· and an onrushing reces­sion pushed Chrysler to the briii:k.. ··· 
Capital Cities-ABC Inc. and Gannett
Advertising spending trends are years and its biggest decline since 
Co. Inc. are scheduled to appear at
closely monitored by the newspaper 1942. the conference. 
and broadcasting industries, which Coen said national advertising rose rely heavily on sales of space and 5.3 percent this year while local Another forecaster, John Perriss of
time to stay in business. advertising was up 3.5 percent. The the ad agency Saatchi & Satchi's
Media companies like the Times combined total was up 4.5 percent Mirror Co., Time Warner Inc., Zenith Media Worldwide, took a at $132.1 billion. 
State assesses $48 million in illegal drug taxes, penalties 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) --Although it's only been in effect five months, a Jaw that allows the state to tax drug offenders has been used to assess $48 million in tax and penalties. 
Unfortunately, only a fraction of that amount has been collected, however, an Indiana Department of Revenue spokesman says. 
Indiana is one of some 30 states that have adopted laws that impose a tax on illegally delivered, manufactured or possessed drugs and marijuana. 
Since July 1, the start of the state's fiscal year, revenue officials have been able to issue tax warrants against drug offenders. 
"The thinking behind it is, why are alleged drug dealers doing what they are doing? Obviously, it's to make money," said revenue department spokesman Larry McKee. "Illegal drugs is a multi-million dollar business that operates outside existing law and tax laws." 
Often, McKee said, when drug suspects are arrested, their bulging bank accounts are untouchable without evidence of a direct relationship 

between the assets and the illegal activity. "This (law} goes far beyorid that to' get it back," McKee said. 
The tax and penalties add up quickly. Some assessments against individual suspects have been in the millions of dollars, McKee said. 
"When you're talking $40 a gr<•tm on some of these substances, it doesn't take long before you get into that. Plus, there's a 100 percent penalty attached to this," he said. 
There's still a problem in collecting the tax. Of the approximately $24 million assessed in base tax and an­other $24 million in penalties assessed as of mid-November, only $208,000 had been collected, McKee said. 
The bulk of the money goes to local law enforcement agencies that made the initial arrests and to drug programs. Very little is kept by the state, McKee said. 
"It may take several years for that money to make its way back to local law enforcement agencies because none of this money can be distributed until they (the offenders) exhaust their appeals," McKee said. 
r----------------------~--------------------------~--­
Viewpoint 
Tuesday, December 8,1992 

The Observer 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant 
Managing Editor John Rock 

News Editor •••...............•... David Kinney Viewpoint Editor.................. Joe Moody Sports Editor •••.......... Michael Scrudato Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor 
Business Manager Richard Riley 

Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Production Manager .•....... Jeanne Blasi Systems Manager .....••....... Patrick Barth OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
There were 'dining hall queens,' approximately 
There have been more bizarre and unhealthy places for young men and women to meet than Notre Dame a quar­ter century ago, but I don't know any and I'm glad I didn't live in any of them. Notre Dame was bad enough. 
This was, of course, before coeducation, but there were women around. There were Saint Mary's students, in a much-cited seven-to-one ratio that worked as both explana­tion and alibi for our lack of so­cial success. There were the DHQs-"dining hall queens" ­high school students who slung hash at dinner and on weekends, and who were bright and approachable young women, often faculty brats. And there were townies. 
The odds were hopeless, but so were most of us. When you assemble a student body of former honors students from single-sex high schools -and charmingly repressed Catholic backgrounds -you're bound to have an unusually high Ed Grimley factor. There were some articulate, adept fellows at Notre Dame. But your aver­age Darners would have had trouble making conversation with a member of the opposite sex under the most favorable conditions. 
These were not favorable conditions. The women at Saint Mary's were as socially inept as their ND counterparts, and, given that famous seven-to-one ratio, it was inevitable that bad attitudes would flourish. Boy, did they. 
But first, let's talk infrastruc­ture: In the fall of 1967, only Lyons and Farley had phones in individual rooms. Everyone else used hall phones, which, at Saint Mary's, were served through an antiquated wire­and-plug switchboard. 
To get a Saturday date, a freshman had to start no later than Tuesday. Once he got to a phone, it could take 30 minutes of hang-up/diaVhang-up/dial to get through to the Saint Mary's switchboard. Then he would probably be on hold another 10 minutes. If the young woman he was trying to call was in, there was a good chance she already had other plans for the evening in question. He would have to start dialing and hang­ing up again. 
Pete Peterson 
Beyond Freedom Rock 

Getting a date in under two hours would be very good for most freshmen. But my freshman experience was that a third of my dates would fall through by Thursday night. Parents would come into town or papers would become due. Nine out of 10 excuses were bogus. 
Maybe girls were too shy to say no, and had to get up their courage to break an unwanted date. But it rarely happened to me as a sophomore, and almost never thereafter. A lot of them simply accepted several dates and decided later which one to keep. 
Not every Saint Mary's stu­dent had a date every weekend night. Some were so shy that no guys knew they existed. Some were plighted to absent swains. Some were not des­tined to be asked out, while others were so attractive that most guys were scared of them. 
But there were also Saint Mary's students who had a Fri­day night date, a Saturday pre­game date, a post-game date, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ihe Shirt '92:mission accomplished 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the Hall Presi­dent's Council, Student Union Board and Student Government, we would like to thank you for your enthusiastic support of "The Shirt '92" project. This year's effort was a tremendous success due largely to the support of the Alumni Association, Hammes Bookstore, the Joyce ACC and, of course, the student body. 
The mission of the project is 
DOONESBURY 
two-fold. First, it is a visible sign of the student body's unity in support of Notre Dame foot­ball. Second, the project serves as a fund raising event for stu­dent organizations. 
This year's proceeds will benefit financial aid, residence hall improvements, a commu­nity service effort, campus pro­gramming, clubs, and capital improvements to Stepan Center. 
The success of the program is a great credit to those involved, and to every member of the Notre Dame community. The spirit and dedication of stu­dents, administrators, and alumni made this year's project the largest ever. To each we extend a sincere thanks. 
Jason Coyle HPC Co-chair Marianne Ravry HPC Co-chair Pat McCarthy Student Union Board 

~ 
_ I ~z.,.. 

and a Sunday day-date, as well as a Sunday supper date. On average, SMC did alright. 
But we were jerks, too, and could be spectacularly foul. Friday and Saturday night, a primordial howling would issue from the Circle, where hordes of drunken students would clog the area, attempting to hitch rides with cruising townies, pounding on the cars as they drove through, shouting, screaming, running after them, and occasionally getting in for ... what? I'm not sure. 
The stories were of fast, sweat~, and generally unsatis­fying sex in the back seats of cars, but guys who would hitch in the Circle would also lie. 
This appalling spectacle went on throughout weekends of my freshman and sophomore years, interrupted only by winter, but I don't recall it beyond 1969. Perhaps the cops found a way to cut oft' the cruisers. 
What remained a fact that a woman walking on the Notre Dame campus was bound to be harassed. If you consider it ha­rassment to be leered at, or to overhear what one person says about you to another, then it was impossible to cross the campus without harassment. But it was also likely that you would have some vulgar propo­sition or observation made di­rectly to you, and that became a near certainty if you walked between the Fieldhouse and Cavanaugh, where students hung out the windows shouting obscenities at passing women. 
Mind you, I had a fairly active social life. But I worked at it far too hard and most of the rela­tionships were unsatisfactory. Even friendships were incredi­bly difficult to nurture, When I got a:way from Notre ,l;>afl'e ,and. found that, elsewhere, people· treated each other with respect and even affection, it certainly made me question what I had endured. 
From what I have seen in my visits to campus, whether you are where you want to be or not, you are a whole lot health­ier than we were. 
I mean, geez, you'd have to be, right? 
Pete Peterson, Class of '71 is a business writer with the Press-Republican, a daily newspaper in Plattsburgh, New York. 


GARRY TRUDEAU 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Those who make peaceful 
revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.' 
John F. Kennedy 

99 tears 'till you submit: QUOTE.'i, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Accent 
Tuesday, December 8, 1992 page 9 
An artistic tradition 
Saint Mary's art department offers a history of resources 
By BETH NESSNER 
Accent Writer 
For a smaller school, Saint Mary's boasts one of the oldest art departments among Catholic schools. Through a nationally accredited program with unique college requirements, the art department features a history of faculty resources and student innovation found commonly at larger schools, according to senior art major Frances McMahon. 
"I wasn't aware of the art department here when I came,'' she said. "At a small college, you don't get a lot of the lab space and resources, but I've really been impressed by their work." 
The art department has been with the Saint Mary's since the 1850s, not long after the college itself was founded, according to Doug Tyler, chair of the department. 
"I think it's one of the oldest departments on campus,'' he said. 
Saint Mary's College began as an academy in Bertrand, Michigan, in 1844, when it was founded by the Sisters of the Holy Crosey. At that time, th·e · interest in art and preparation of art teachers was discovered in old notebooks and journals, according to a written biography of the department. 
Tradition states that the first art teacher came from Canada, although there are no written records to back this up. The idea, it is believed, stemmed from the referring to Starr in the biography. 
He began teaching at Saint Mary's the summer of 1900 and in 1924-25 taught another influential person, Sr. 
M. Immaculata (Duchene). 
Immaculata, proud to have been a student of Paradis, introduced and founded the Bachelor of Fine Arts degree at the college. 
'"The History of Art,' which in the 1940s became an important course under Otto von Simpson and Bruno Schlesinger and was required of all Bachelor of Arts students," the article said. "It was a two-year lecture course one hour a week." 
Today, art students must submit a portfolio once a semester for faculty review. This includes a compilation of the art they have been doing 
over  the  course  of  the  
semester,  according  to  
McMahon.  

In addition to this, lil\e seniors in each department, each art major must complete a comprehensive in her senior year. 
"The work that the students put out is really impressive," McMahon said. "These are two features that other small schools don't require." 
As the department's history progressed, the department grew stronger, yet throughout the history of both the college and the art department, the biography said that art in relation to a Saint Mary's education was then and is now an important asset. 
fact that Mother 
Saint Sauveur 
(Marineau) hailed 
from Canada in 
1848 and was 
named Directress 
of the Academy 
later that year . 
Sauveur made 
m a n y 
improvements and first introduced "art" to the Sisters by demonstrating how to make artificial flowers. The biography concluded that it was from this that Sauveur became interested in promoting art and its techniques. 
The school prospered and published catalogues displaying everything from the prices of art supplies to different artwork, according to the biography. Saint Mary's boasted many talented professors who .taught while continuing to make the Art 


Department even stronger. 
According to the biography,

By late in the century, the 
Starr was one of the most

department had earned 
influential teachers in the

national recognition in the 
history of Saint Mary's Art

Chicago New World in Feb. 
Department. Starr impacted

1899. Eliza Allen Starr, a 
students from 1871 to 1877 by 

Saint Mary's art teacher, 
helping mold future artists

spoke of Saint Mary's as one 
and art professors and later

of the very few real art 
returned to Saint Mary's as a

schools among Catholic 
visitor or a lecturer. Many 

The Observer I John Bingham A Saint Mary's art student and professor examine a sculpture 
.on display in Moreau Hall. 
institutions. 
One man who contributed greatly to the history of the college in general was Father John Zahm, who assisted in securing some valuable paintings. Some of the paintings he helped secure were 
T h e Immaculate Conception" and "A Holy Family" by Murillo. 
Another prominent art professor arrived at the turn of the century-Jobson Emilien Paradis, a graduate of Notre Dame. Paradis brought artistic influence directly from such cities as Paris and Rome, as he studied at 

the Ecole Nationale des Beaux Arts, according to the biography. 
"After seven years of study abroad, he came back to Notre Dame with a strong wish in his heart... to organize a good and thorough school of drawing and painting,"' according to "Opus Cited," 
Five-Eight's 'I Learned Shut Up' highlights southern talent 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
Athens, Ga. has long been a cultural center. 
Since the lored days of yore, when Pylon, R.E.M. and B-52s played the clubs of this college town every weekend, Athens has been a favorite business destination for A&R representatives from every major label, and a bright beacon for hundreds of bands looking for a big break. 
The latest pop/rock phenomenon to emerge from the haze of musical activity that still lingers over Athens is Five-Eight. 
The guitar, bass and drums of this straightforward three­man group transcend barriers of genre and categorization, as their songs, with familiar themes-love, sex, alienation and infatuation-and sounds-R.E.M. on overdrive-speak to the disenchanted, aimless twenty­
I Learned Shut Up 
Five-Eight 
***1 /2 
(out of five) 

poetry, while even combining the two occasionally-a rare feat for many pop songwriters. 
"There's visions of lovers with smiles entwined I Over a pool table their looks mock mine,'' he sings in "Desperate Tonight," the mellowest of the 11 songs on the album, which tells the story of a young man 
driven  suicidal  by  his  
romantic frustration.  
Suicidal  thoughts  and  

desperation are themes central to many of the songs found on I Learned Shut Up. The album kicks off with "Looking Up," the tale of a depressed man, turned to drugs to cure his illness, who consistently bringing the message of their songs home with those familiar sounds, rediscovered by the Allman Brothers and changed-by other influential bands. 
But Five-Eight's music is not mere rehash, and does not become tiresome. Mantione's lyrics and guitar, supported by the active bass sounds of Dan Horowitz and Patrick Ferguson's cymbal-laden rhythms, drive the songs quickly and forcefully into the heart and mind of the listener. 
Possibly the catchiest song on the album, "Lemon Love Drops" immediately hooks the listener with a nifty lyric. 
"Her skirt's worn thin by the sun's probing grin," sings Mantione, who proceeds to tell a story of a great love lost. While deep emotion rings true in both the band's vocals and instrumentation, Five-Eight, like all goDd rock music, is driven by primal needs. 


year-old in all of us. suffers every possible side 
With I Learned Shut Up:

effect of the lithium on which 
Five-Eight has established

Mike Mantione's vocals do he relies. 
itself as the next in line to 

most of the communicative Five-Eight keeps a certain 
claim the pop musical throne

work for the band, alternating southern rock groove 
ofAthens. 

The album of Five-Eight's 'I Learned Shut Up' is pictured here. 
between storytelling and throughout the album, 
--~~--~--­

page 10 The Observer Tuesday, December 8,1992 
Oilers convert turnovers into 14 points, sixth straight Bear loss 
HOUSTON (AP) -The Houston Oilers converted a pair of Chicago turnovers into touchdowns, including a 26-yard interception return for a score by safety Bubba McDowell, for a !j)-0 lead over the Bears after three quarters of the Monday night NFL game. 
McDowell intercepted a Peter Tom Willis pass and tightroped 26 yards down the sideline with 40 seconds left in the second quarter to give the Oilers a 10-0 halftime lead. 
Midway through the third quarter, Webster Slaughter caught a 6-yard pass from Cody Carlson in the front corner of the end zone to make it 17-0. The score came five plays after Houston defensive end Sean Jones forced a fumble by Bear running back Brad Muster and the Oilers Ray Childress recovered at the Chicago 43. 
Willis, throwing on second down at his own 19, was hit by Jones just as he was letting the ball go. McDowell stepped in front of intended receiver Neal Anderson, barely avoided going out of bounds and sprinted untouched into the end zone. 
AI Del Greco's 19-yard field goal had given the Oilers a 3-0 lead with 5:25 left in the first half. The Bears threatened early in the second quarter 
when a 38-yard pass interference penalty against Houston cornerback Jerry Gray gave them a first down at the Oiler 42. Three running plays took them to the Oilers 36. 
The Bears tried a fake punt on fourth down but punter Chris Gardocki's pass to Darren Lewis was broken up by Gray. The Bears also drew two penalties on the play, prompting an outburst against an official by Chicago coach Mike Ditka. 
The Bears (4-8), trying to snap a five-game losing streak, turned to third-year pro Willis for the second straight week. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Adoption: Doctor and teacher will  
NOTICES ATIENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 orB00-439-5313. WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 TYPING 287-4082 WordWorks Typing Service Term papers, dissertations, theses 277-7406 All WORDPROCESSING services. Andy 234-8789 Babysitter/Housekeeper available 2nd semester, MWFS; pay negotiable, EXCELLENT REFERENCES. Please call Tanya at 283-1880. STEPHEN JAY GOULD IS COMING! Wednesday, December 9th at 8:00pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL  LOST: Black psych folder w/exp card & notes; last seen at N. Dining Hall last Wed.; if you have it call x4586-ask for Steve; no questions LOST: green London Fog down-filled jacket in 202 DeBart. before Thanksgiving break. If you found it, please call Laura x4801 ... 1t's cold outside and I need my jacket!!!! Thanks. Help!! If you took my blue N.D. backpack from North Dining Hall on Tue., Dec 1st at dinner, I'm still waiting for your call. (Raissa x4890) You have some papers that I really need back!! They couldn't be of any value to you, so why don't you just take all the loose papers and stick them back in one of the cubby holes where you found the bag originally! ***********LOST********** Long black wool overcoat w/ a set of keys in the pocket. All was lost at SMC Senior Formal. I desperately need my coat, car keys (GM), and room keys. If you have them please call Bill @ x4336. LOST during Flanner Formal: a 14K GOLD 10 BRACELET engraved on both sides with the name ANGELICA . Great sentimental value! Please call me at X2723 or stop by 333 P. W. Thanks!  2 bdr. apts available close to campus $300 per month avilable tor 2nd semester and '92 -'93 school year call 232 -8256 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 ROOMMATE WANTED: to live w/ 2 tem. grad students $175, incl. uti!., washer/dryer call 277-20651v message SPACIOUS 6 BDRM HOME,NEAR CAMPUS.SECURITY SYSTEM.FURN. FALL 1993.272­6306 Furnished room. $200/Mo 287-2159 Paul LAFAYETIE SQUARE still accepting names for the '93-'94 school year for more info call 232-8256 GRAB IT: 1628 Portage for 1993-94 yr. 234-3831 or 273-0482. 2, 4 & 6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAILABLE 2nd SEMESTER & FALL '93 272-6306 FOR SALE  Need GAs to Kentucky x4890$$ PERSONAL ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial secunty, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. MEN AND WOMEN FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple dreams of sharing life with newborn. Hear us on our taped message. Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­467-8522. TODAY is the LAST day to put your Christmas Classifieds in the Observer. The deadline is 3:00. Tomorrow's Observer will be the last one of the semester. ........MERRY CHRISTMAS ....... CLOSE-OUT SALE MUST GO PRICES!!! Catholics Vs. Mormons $5/each or 2 tor $8 (Buy an XXL or XL, get a Large  Winter Fest is coming. Winter Fest is coming. The weekend in Peru: Cross-stitching Kokomo has a really BIG Kroger's HOHO HO ... HO TB's B-day? Chuckerooski J-1-N-G~L-E Bells Salmon Coral Peachy Pink Big Wong INDIANA!!!!!! MB EASTBOUND FOR BREAK??? I need a ride to MAINE or as far as I can get! Please call Therese at 284-5061 w I N T E R F E s T (brought to you by SUB) Mr. McMonagle-My LADDER needs repair... So do we. Friends? To my Grand Saint Mary's  make dreams for your baby come true. Full-time parenting. Best of the city; summers by the beach: your baby rocked to sleep by a cozy fireplace in winter, and by ocean waves in summer. Art, music, the best education, endless love. Call Franny or Stephen collect. {212)369-2597. RIDER NEEDED-I'm driving to NYC for break & need a rider. Call 271-0742 I NEED A RIDE TO THE MILWAUKEE AREA FOR BREAK CAN LEAVE THURS DEC 17 AFTER 4 CALL JULIE X3736 ....MERRY CHRISTMAS' .... TO EVERYONE especially Badinites the Walsh girls the "Pangborn guys" Castle Point friends ROOMIE .... and yes, even Mitch! THis' YEAR, THE NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT IS lN Tl:lj': J.A.C.C. SATURDAY, DECEMBEF.I_12 AT 8:15 TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION  
I  VIGIL DEC.10@ 6PM STONEHENGE HUMAN RIGHTS DAY AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL ILOST & FOUND I I LOST,MY RED UMBRELLA DURING THE URBAN PLUNGE MEETING IN THE LIBRARY AUD. LAST SUNDAY. PLEASE CALL AMY AT 4530. HUGE REWARD!!!! I promise. Do you have my blue, Notre Dame back pack-lost Monday Nov. 30 in North Dining Hall? Call me or bring in by 617 PE, ASAP. NO questions asked. Heather X3762. FOUND: ONE PAIR OF SUNGLASSES IN CASE AT USC GAME IN STUDENT SECTION. TO CLAIM, STOP IN ANTHONY TRAVEL, INC., IN LAFORTUNE. HELP!! IF YOU MISTAKINGLY TOOK MY BROWN COVERED WEBSTER'S NEW COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY FROM THE LAFORTUNE MAC LAB ON THE NIGHT OF TUES., DEC. 1/WED. DEC 2 BETWEEN 1-3:30 AM, PLEASE RETURN IT!! BELIEVE IT OR NOT, IT HAS SENTIMENTAL VALUE AS I WAS AWARDED IT IN JR. HIGH FOR ENGLISH. I NEED IT!! PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE MAC LAB OR CALL CAIMIEN AT 283-1292. IT HAS MY NAME IN THE FRONT COVER! Lost: 14K gold bracelet. Would the young man who called on Thurs. Dec. 3 please call again? 239-7007. Thank you. LOST: One pair of fruit-punch soaked size 13 Tevas in the stadium lot. If found, please call Tony at 287­9341 because I doubt they'll fit you. No questions asked. LOST: 14K GOLD BRACELET REWARD OFFERED. 239-7007 FROM 8-5 OR 277-5132 AFTER 5. SKIIS...please...SKIIS...please If you have any info on Rossignol & K2 skiis that SKIIED out of a storage closet in Farley Hall, contact Paula at 283-4271. Reward if found ...extra Christmas cash...Piease!!!  WANTED INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYMENT ­Make money teaching English abroad. Japan and Taiwan. make $2000-$4000 +per month. Many provide room & board + other benefits! Financially & Culturally rewarding! For International Employment Group: (206)632-1146 ext. J5584. ROOMMATE WANTED TO SHARE NEW 4 BDRM GRANGER HOME; 1 OR 2 NON-SMOKING FEMALES, FACULTY OR GRAD STUDENTS ONLY; $350/MO + 1/2 UTIL OR $600/MO + 1/2 UTIL; 277-2253, LV MESSAGE. Need ride to KC area, Iowa or Cent. Mo, Xmas Brian 1 078 NEED RIDE TO DC AREA ON FRI OF EXAM WEEK. WILL PAY GAS, TOLLS. JOE OR CHRIS 277-5733 I need a rider to Calif. or anywhere between S.B. and Calif. on 1-40. I'm leaving 12/18 and can take one more person. Call 283-2016 if interested. Help! I need a ride to the WASHINGTON DC Area for X-mas Break. I can leave as early as Thurs. Dec. 17. Please call Allison at X4758 or X4721 NO prof has car but dislikes driving, seeks someone to share driving from South Bend December 26 to Akron-Cleveland area, and back January 2. Call AI at 5378. MODELS: Photographer needs college-age females tor photos in sports apparel. Call Jim at 273-7074 after 5 for info. Need RIDERS to Wise, VA (SWVa) for Xmas break. Call Lisa at x2620 WANTED: WOMEN'S FIGURE SKATES, SIZE 8. CALL SHIRLEY AT 272-3753 AFTER 4:30P.M. FOR RENT 4, 5 or 6 bdrm. furnished houses, SAFE, wash/dry, beach V-ball, sec.sys.233-9947.  CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for sale!.!! Call to see. :>amplll,s...~73-.. 2967. . ' NO alum in Chicago has perfect X-mas gift for you from Mom and Dad: 1984 BMW 318i, sunroof, 5-spd., am/fm, cassette, garaged since owned, low miles, perfect condition, complete with NO sticker. Must sell! $6400 or best offer. (312) 348-7867. GO IRISH! MEN'S GOLF CLUBS. PERFECT CHRISTMAS GIFT. EXCELLENT CONDITION. TWO SETS. ONE SET (POWERBILT GRAND SLAMS) HAS 3-PW, 1 ,3,4,5 WOODS. THE OTHER (HOGANS) HAS 2-PW, 1 ,3,4,5 WOODS. $100 EACH. CALL SHIRLEY 272-3753 AFTER 4:30 PM. Nordic-track xx-ski machine. Great work-out. $250 (OBO). Musical Amplifier, Roland Cube-60. Compact but powerful. $120. (OB). Call Sue, 255-8862. 82 HONDA ACCORD LX, HATCHBACK, AUTO, AIR, AM/FM, RUNS GREAT. $1500. 239-6590 DAYS; 271-7005 AFTER 8 PM. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 BARGAIN TICKET from SOUTH BEND to PHILADELPHIA-Dec. 12 -$100.-Call 289-8136-Leave message. OVATION COUNTRY\ARTIST ACOUSTIC GUITAR, LIKE NEW, ELECTRIC PLUG IN, BEST OFFER, 2553355 NATHAN UY TICKETS I NEED 2 lU-ND Basketball tix Mike x1161 MARDI GRAS!! For Sale: One-way plane ticket from S.B. to New Orleans on Feb. 19 or any day. You name the price. 233­1958  S I /RE~\ . dll Sports Staff. -~-~?.,~.................... .. upp 1bes ex remttte Y, 1mC1t~ ... h' __ ~., .•.•~,..9-.r,!:l~h!J Q!,¥Q.~W--~-~­, ...F • 1 ., * . . . , Ava1la 1e at 8r on s ard S op how important your jobs are.. ... · · ·? (Next to Tracks) Thanks for writing and see ya WHAT IS WINTER FEST. OR Call: 287-6730 next year WINTER FEST . . WINTER FEST Good luck on tmals.. WINTER FESP-N-J Your thankful T SMC Sports Editor WATCH FOR WINTER FEST! SMC/ND SUMMER PROGRAMS. COMING ............. AFTER LONDON AND ROME. CHRISTMAS!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!IHey Pima, MEETING DEC. 9TH, 6:15 pm-ND Get a clue and start writing or you LIBRARY LOUNGE. WINTER WINTER WINTERknow what'll happen!! (Have you INFO: CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK FEST FEST FEST FEST been good and practicing real 284-4460 OR 272-3726 WINTER WINTER WINTER hard?) -Who loves ya baby? FEST FEST FEST FEST Need a ride to the PHILADELPHIA WINTER WINTER WINTERSTEPHEN JAY GOULD IS area?? FEST FEST FEST FEST COMING! Wednesday, December I'm headed home and looking tor (brought to you by SUB) 9th at 8:00pm in the Hesburgh someone to share the driving. If Library Auditorium. BE THERE! you can drive a stick shift car, call Novena to St. Jude Greg at 289-4947. Oh Holy St. Jude, Apostle and 50,000,000 Martyr, great kinsman of Jesus Anyone need a ride to Long Island Christ, faithful interceptor of all who -WE HAVE IT ALL-for Christmas Break? X4035 invoke your special patronage in times of need, to you I have Angels•bears•bunnies•baskets• recourse from the depths of my bags•blankets•candy•cards• IRISH VOLLEYBALL heart and humbly beg to whom God candles•Chad•coffees•cocoas• has given such great power to comeChristmas cards•coloring books• Congrats on a tremendous to my assistance. Help me in mycrayons•dried fruits•eggnog taffy• season and thanks for dragging present and urgent petition. Inframes•Farside cards•great gifts• me along last week. You rule! return, I promise to make yourheavenly handicrafts•incense• name known and cause you to beIrish Village collection•Jenny•jax• Woody invoked. Say three Our Fathers, jolly good tyme•keepsakes•lotions• (No, AT, that's NOT my real name) three Hail Marys and Glory Bes tor lambs•licorice•mistletoe•mugs•nuts• nine consecutive days. Publicationoh! ornaments•Paula•pillows• P.S. See you next year!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! must be promised. St. Jude pray for potpourri•quaint mini quilts• us all who invoke your aid. Amenred ribbons•Rose•shampoos• sachets•stocking suffers• HEY LARIMORE!! Thanks tor the ATIENTION NDE #24 secret Santa toys•tins•1 0¢ candy• fun time at your dance! Maybe we PARTICIPANTS:• Trolls•UPS•UPS•UPS• can go to another one in say...a I thank God for each of you! Victorian ornaments• year from now... l'm going to miss Never before has God'sVISA/Master Card• you. (Sorry about the sappiness!) presence been so apparent toxtra neat stutt•zip codes & zones. Love, Tara me. And to my small group (STUDS!) -I cannot expressTHE COUNTRY HARVESTER .....••••HEATHER WEEKS ...••••••• how wonderful you are!LaFortune Lower Level Merry Christmas to you!! ThanksforyouropennessMon-Fri-10-5 But do you even have a clue, and inspiration. I love you all.Sat­11-3 as to who I could possibly be? God bless! Alison F.239-6714 Am I Tara, Mae, Allison,or Melanie~ (Can't wait until Thursday!) TO MY GRAND ROOMIE Your Secret Santa ••• GROVER!!!!! ••• Collen Petak TOP TEN QUOTES AMUN 1992 Thursday night left me curious. I 10 Point of order-can we please must talk to you again. Call Rex Happy 20th B-day! refrain from whining? '1613 and dinner is on me! luv, 9 Kristen, what's trump? your 409 roomies 8 Yeah means gerbil We're looking for the male runner CONGRATULATIONS CAST OF 7 I know Elvis, I have seen Elvis & wearing BUGLE BOYS December 3 MARCUS' OWN ATIEMPTthis man is not Elvis at 9 p.m. Please contact the girls in OF ORGANIZATION 6 Point of order ..the delegation Iron the Honda China is WAY oft key (284-4413, 284-4367, 284-4443.) "SANTA CLAUS'5 You sleep with me and you still call me a dork? Let's Go Greyhound it was pretty good. 4 Help me reeek New York­$116 rnd/trip. Even though3 Ring ring ..clue phone D.C. -$135 rnd/trip. Stan Sawicki 2 Rob, did you mean the 17 yr old Richmond VA -$147.50 rndltrip. screwed Kim up and almost forgot at that table? Philadelphia ­$128. rnd/trip. his one line in Scene 5:1 But not as sorry as I feel tor Ted Call287-6541 tor details. "It was the kid,man." Kennedy  

-~-~----~----------­
page 11

Tuesday, December 8, 1992 The Observer 

NFL STANDINGS  NHL STANDINGS  RESULTS  TRANSACTIONS  
AMERICAN CONFERENCE East W L T Pet PF Buffalo g 4 0 .692 331 Miami 8 5 0 .615 285 lndnplis 6 7 0 .462 169 NY Jets 4 9 0 .308 197 New England 2 11 0 .154 162 Central x-Pttsburgh 10 3 0 .769 267 Houston 7 5 0 .583 270 Cleveland 7 6 0 .538 231 Cincnnati 4 9 0 .308 227 Wast Kan.City 8 5 0 .615 258 San Diego 8 5 0 .615 241 Denver 7 6 0 .538 215 LA Raidrs 6 7 0 .462 186 Seattle 2 11 0 .154 103 NATIONAL CONFERENCE East W L T Pet PF x-Dallas 11 2 0 .646 324 Washingtn 8 5 0 .615 247 Phila 8 5 0 .615 2g7 NY Giants 5 8 0 .385 261 Phoenix 3 10 0 .231 208 Central Minnesota 9 4 0 .692 324 Green Bay 7 6 0 .538 225 Chicago 4 8 0 .333 241 Tampa Bay 4 9 0 .308 239 Detroit 3 10 0 .231 227 West x-San Fran 11 2 0 .846 366 x-NewOrlns 10 3 0 .769 257 Manta 5 8 0 .385 248 LA Rams 5 8 0 .385 248 x-dinched playoff berth Thuraday'a Game New Orleans 22, Atlanta 14 Sunday's Gamaa Cleveland 37, Cincinnati 21 Green Bay 38, Detroit 10 Indianapolis 6, New England 0 Philadelphia 28, Minnesota 17 New York .Jets 24, Buffalo 17 Pittsburgh 20, Seattle 14 Dallas 31, Denver 27 Los Angeles Raiders 28, Kansas City 7 San Francisco 27, Miami 3 San Diego 27, Phoenix 21 Washington 28, New York Giants 10 Los Angeles Rams 31, Tampa Bay 27 Monday Game Chicago at HousiDn, 9 p.m.  PA Home Away AfC NFC Div 223 5-2-0 4-2-0 6-4-0 3-0-0 5-3-0 244 4-2-0 4-3-0 6-3-0 2-2-0 3-3-0 266 3-4-0 3-3-0 5-7-0 1-0-0 4-3-0 266 3-3-0 1-6-0 4-6-0 0-3-0 3-3-0 300 1-6-0 1-5-0 2-7-0 0-4-0 2-5-0 176 6-0-0 4-3-0 9-2-0 1-1-0 4-1-0 218 3-2-0 4-3-0 5-5-0 2-0-0 2-3-0 211 4-3-0 3-3-0 5-5-0 2-1-0 3-1-0 306 2-4-0 2-5-0 3-6-0 1-3-0 1-5-0 207 5-1-0 3-4-0 6-4-0 2-1-0 5-2-0 203 5-2-0 3-3-0 6-5-0 2-0-0 3-3-0 254 6-1-0 1-5-0 6-3-0 1-3-0 3-3-0 226 5-2-0 1-5-0 5-5-0 1-2-0 4-3-0 251 1-5-0 1-6-0 2-8-0 0-3-0 1-5-0 PA Home Away AfC NFC Div 192 6-1-0 5-1-0 4-0-0 7-2-0 6-1-0 200 5-1-0 3-4-0 2-1-0 6-4-0 3-3-0 205 6-0-0 2-5-0 2-1-0 6-4-0 4-2-0 307 3-4-0 2-4-0 1-2-0 4-6-0 2-4-0 309 2-4-0 1-6-0 0-1-0 3-9-0 1-6-0 219 4-2-0 5-2-0 2-1-0 7-3-0 6-1-0 242 5-2-0 2-4-0 2-1-0 5-5-0 4-3-0 288 3-4-0 1-4-0 0-2-0 4-6-0 3-4-0 306 3-4-0 1-5-0 0-2-0 4-7-0 3-5-0 291 1-5-0 2-5-0 1-2-0 2-8-0 2-5-0 199 5-1-0 6-1-0 3-1-0 8-1-0 6-0-0 168 6-1-0 4-2-0 2-0-0 8-3-0 3-2-0 328 5-2-0 0-6-0 2-2-0 3-6-0 1-4-0 291 3-3-0 2-5-0 2-2-0 3-6-0 0-4-0 Saturday, Dec. 12 Denver at Buffalo, 12:30 p.m. New York Giants at Phoenix, 4 p.m. Sunday, Dec. 13 Adanta at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. Cleveland at Detroit, 1 p.m. Dallas at Washington, 1 p.m. Indianapolis at New York Jets, 1 p.m. New England at Kansas City, 1 p.m. Pittsburgh at Chicago, 1 p.m. San Francisco at Minnesota, 1 p.m. Cincinnati at San Diego, 4 p.m. New Orleans at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. Philadelphia at Seattle, 4 p.m. Green Bay at Houston, 8 p.m. Monday, Dec. 14 Los Angeles Raiders at Miami, 9 p.m.  WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Division W L T Pts GF GA Pittsburgh 19 7 3 41 133 106 New Jersey 14 11 1 29 91 87 NY Rangers 13 11 3 29 109 103 Washington 13 13 2 28 106 96 Philadelphia 10 12 4 24 104 110 NY lalandera 9 13 4 22 100 108 Adame Division Montreal 18 8 3 39 120 85 Boston 17 7 2 36 111 88 Quebec 13 10 5 31 121 106 Buffalo 10 12 5 25 120 103 Hartford 7 18 1 15 76 121 Ottawa 3 23 2 8 59 129 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norris Division W L T Pts GF GA Minnesota 16 9 3 35 102 88 Chicago 14 11 4 32 97 86 Detroit 15 13 1 31 128 113 Toronto 11 12 4 26 80 87 StLouis 10 13 4 24 100 112 Tampa Bay 10 16 2 22 100 106 Smythe Division Los Angeles 19 7 2 40 130 97 Calgary 15 9 3 33 109 92 Vancouver 15 9 2 32 116 83 Edmonton 9 14 4 22 76 112 Winnipeg 8 14 3 19 86 100 San Jose 5 21 1 11 76 132 Saturday's Gamaa Boston 4, New Jersey 2 Pittsburgh 9, San Jose 4 Minnesota 7, Quebec 4 Washington 5, New York Islanders 3 Detroit 9, Tampa Bay 7 Ottawa 3, Philadelphia 2 Montreal 3, Winnipeg 2, OT St. Louis 5, EdrnoniDn 1 Chicago 2, ToroniD 2, tie Los Angeles 7, Hartford 3 Sunday's Gam.. Boston 7, Philadelphia 1 New Jersey 7, Buffalo 3 New York Rangers 6, Toronto 0 Chicago 2, Montreal 0 Monday'a Gamaa Buffalo at Quebec, 7:40 p.m. VVashington at Ottawa, 7:40 p.m. New York Islanders at Tampa Bay, 7:40 p.m. Edmonton at Calgary, 9:40p.m. SL Louis at Vancouver, 10:40 p.m. Tuasday'a Gam.. Winnipeg at Pittsburgh, 7:40 p.m. Chicago at Detroit, 7:40 p.m.  How the top 25 teama In The Aaaoclatad Praaa collage baakatball poll farad Monday: 1 . Duke (3-0} beat Northeastern 1 03-72. Next vs. Rutgers at the Meadowlands, Sat­urday. 2. Kansas (3-0} beat Emporia State 91-56. Next: vs. Mississippi Valley State at Kansas City, Friday. 3. Kentucky (2-0} did not play. Next: vs. Eastern Kentucky, Tuesday. 4. Indiana (4-1} did not play. Next: at Notre Dame, Tuesday. 5. North Carolina (3-0} did not play. Next: vs. Virginia Tech at Roanoke, Va., Wednes­day. 6. Michigan (2-1} beat Detroit Mercy 92­n. Next vs. Bowling Green, Wednesday. 7. Seton Hall (5-1} beat Miami 65-56. Next: vs. lona at White Plains, N.Y., Thursday. 8. Iowa (3-0} did not play. Next: vs. North­ern Iowa, Tuesday. g, Louisville (1-0} did not play. Next: at Vanderbilt, Wednesday. 10. Florida State (3-2} did not play. Next: at Duquesne, Dec. 15. 11 . Georgetown (2-0} did not play. Next: vs. Pittsburgh, Wednesday. (tie} Oklahoma (2-0} did not play. Next: vs. Idaho State, Tuesday. 13. UCLA (4-1} did not play. Next: vs. San Diego, Saturday. 14. Arizona (0-1} did not play. Next: vs. New Mexico, Tuesday. 15. Syracuse (3-0} did not play. Next: at Tennessee, VVednesday. 16. Arkansas (3-0} did not play. Next: vs. Southeast Missouri State at Pine Bluff, Ark., Thursday. 17. Georgia Tech (1-1} did not play. Next: vs. Georgia State, Saturday. 18. Purdue (3-0} did not play. Next: vs. Loyola, Ill., Saturday. 19. Cincinnati (1-0} did not play. Next: vs. Southeast Missouri State, Friday. 20. Tulane (3-1} did not play. Next: at No. 21 Memphis State, Wednesday. 21. Memphis State (Q-2} did not play. Next: vs. No. 20 Tular\8, Wednesday. 22. UNLV (1-0} did not play. Next: at San Diego State, Saturday. 23. Massachusetts ( 1-1} did not play. Next: at No. 11 Oklahoma, Saturday. 24. Michigan State (1-1} did not play. Next: vs. SIBtson at Los Angeles, Friday. 25. Nebraska (3-0} beat Citadel 86-46. Next: vs. Creighton, Thursday.  BASEBALL American League DETROIT TIGERS-Re-signed Lou Whitaker, second baseman, to a three-year contract. SEATILE MARINERS-Signed Mike Marshall, first baseman, to a Triple-A contract. TEXAS RANGERS-Named Bobby Jones manager for Oklahoma City of the American Association; Stan Cliburn manager for Tulsa of the Texas League; Tommy Thompson for Port Charlotte of the Florida State League; and Doug Sisson manager of Erie of the New York-Penn League. National League CINCINNA Tl REDS-Agreed to terms with Roberto Kelly, outfielder, on a three-year contract, and Greg Cadaret, pitcher, on a one-year contract. COLORADO ROCKIES-Agreed to terms with Bryn Smith, pitcher, to a minor-league contract. Acquired Mike Grimes, pitcher, from the Philadelphia Phillie& for cash or a player to be named later and assigned him to Colorado Springs of the Pacific Coast League. MONTREAL EXPOS-Signed Adam Peterson, Mike Capel, David Rosario and Bruce Walton, pitchers; Hector Vargas, In­fielder; and Lou Frazier and Curtis Pride, outfielders, to minor-league contracts. SAN DIEGO PADRE5-Acquired Raul Casanova, catcher, from the New York Mets to complete the Tony Fernandez trade. Northwest League SIOUX FALLS CANARIES-Named Frank Verdi manager. HOCKEY National Hockey League NHL-5uspended Owen Nolan, right wing, of the Quebec Nordiques for four non-game days for aoss-checking Richard Matvichuk of the Minnesota North Stars. BUFFALO SABRES-Sent Clint Malarchuk, goaltender, to San Diego of the International Hockay League. NEW JERSEY DEVIL5-Recalled Janne Ojanen, center, from Cincinnati of the Inter­national Hockey League. COLLEGE CALFORNIA, PA.-Announced the resig­nation of Jeff Petrucci, football coach, so he can become associate athletic director for lund-raising. · DOMINICAN, N.Y.-Named Paul Trinkoff team doctor. EASTERN MICHIGAN-Named Ron  - 
Calgary at Edmonton, 9:40 p.m.  Cooper football coach.  
Montreal vs. Los Angeles at Phoenix, 9:40  MONMOUTH, N.J.-Named Terry Dow assistant football coach.  


Procter&Gamble 
"Procter & Gamble and Wal-Mart: A Partnership For Growth" 
Presented by Mr. Tom Muccio, The Procter & Gamble Company Director of Wal-Mart Customer Business Development 
Wednesday, January 20, 1993 6:00p.m. Pizza Party following Presentation 
Center for Continuing Education 1st Floor Auditorium 
Casual Dress Please 

Also meet representatives from P&G disciplines 
r-----------------~----------~­

page 12 The Observer 
Extra game costs Alabama defense 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) ­No. 2 Alabama was hoping to become only the second team in NCAA history to lead the nation in all four major defensive categories. 
But an extra game cost the Crimson Tide. 
Alabama (12-0) was ranked first in total, rushing, passing and scoring defense heading into Saturday's inaugural Southeastern Conference championship game against No. 14 Florida. 
The Gators, rallying from a 21-7 deficit, became the first team this season to score three touchdowns against the Tide, which gave up 287 yards passing and 317 yards total ­both season highs. 
That shaky performance knocked Alabama to second in points allowed (9.1 per game, trailing Arizona's 8.9) and passing efficiency defense Uust behind Western Michigan). The the only school to lead the na­tion in all four categories for an entire season. 
Most importantly, though, Al­abama won the game 28-21 for its 20th SEC title and a trip to the Sugar Bowl to meet top­ranked Miami for the national championship on Jan. 1. 
Ironically, it was the defense that provided the winning points. Antonio Langham inter­cepted a Shane Matthews pass and returned it 27 yards for a touchdown with just over three minutes to go. 
"If the game's got to be won down the stretch," defensive end John Copeland said, "we always feel the defense can win it." 
Florida used shovel passes and draw plays to keep Al­abama's defense -especially Copeland and the other end, Lombardi Award finalist Eric Curry -away from Matthews. 

"I should have thrown the ball somewhere else," he said. "It was a bad decision on my part." 
Matthews had had a good game to that point against the nation's best defense, which got a lecture from line coach Mike Dubose after the Gators tied it up. 
"He told us, 'This is your team. You've got to win the game. Somebody has got to make a big play,"' Langham said. 
Not surprisingly, it was Lang­ham who came up with that big play. It was his third touchdown of the season, all three coming at critical times for the Tide. 
"He's just got a knack for making the plays," coach Gene Stallings said. 
One week earlier, Langham had returned an interception 61 yards for a touchdown against arch-rival Auburn to break a scoreless tie in the third quarter. Alabama went on to 
Tuesday, December 8,1992 
•-•·-D~¥19•~••-•••-•-~onte·re.n.ce_--tod.ay
PAY"I;QN~ pqtp ()\P} th~ _Univer~ity ofDayton. 
Gr~at Midw~st G()pf~r~llce on ___ Calls to Tom .Westendorf. Mondq.;y Scht:!d~led a news Dayton's acting athletic direc~ confere~~e•Jn••me .-wake .of-a toJ\ weren't returned. pubUsh~~ report that the lJnh · -UU ____ spokesman Doug ver~1ty>ofDayton basketball Hauschild st!'id he couldn't con~ teall1 will h~avethe Midwestern firm the report but said the CoUe~iM¢ Conference and join c}l@ge in conference member-theG:MG~ ___.--.--•-----_... _. _ • ship has been under conSidera-
The GMC said an announ.ce.· menton confe.tenc~ member-­ship Would 1re made during the news conference Tuesday at the University of Dayton. _.-.. 
The Cincinnati PQst reported Saturday that Oayte)n would leave the MCC andbegjn play in the GMC riext season. Th~ newspaperdted sourcesjt did not.il[entify in ChiCago, wll.ere the GMC is based. . 
GMCCommissioner Mike Sllve declined to confirrnwheth~r Dayton would. join the GMC. MCC .·· CommissiQner Jon Leetol}e referred calls to the 
thm. 

He would say only that ''conference afiiliation '' would be discussed at the .news con­ference. ­
The addition of Dayton would give the GMC seven members. Other schools in the conference are the University of Cindnnati, Memphis State, Marquette, St. Louis; DePaul and Alabama~ Birmingham. 
Other MCC members are Xavier, Butler, Detroit, Evansville, Loyola, LaSalle and Duquesne. 
-
Tide did finish on top in rushing  Matthews set a Southeastern  win 17-0.  
defense (55-yard average) and  Conference passing record with  
total  defense  (194.2-yard  9,287 yards in his career, but  
average).  he was haunted by the one pass  
Oklahoma in 1986 remains  that went the other way.  


No one prepares you for the MCA T better than Kaplan. Our MCA T prep course teaches you exactly what the test covers and the test· taking skills you'll need to score your best. We offer live cl....., home study notes, and audio review. Plus, no one •-has a .._.. exte!Wive MCA T resource Ubrary than Kaplan. 
KAPLAN 
Special Champion Holiday Offer! 
December 11th -December 18th 

FREE_ GIFT 

BUY TWO REVERSE WE-'VE• 

SWE-'TSHIRTS" AND RECEIVE 

THIS SPECIAL CHAMPION GIFT 

FREE! (WHILE SUPPLIES LAST.I 
' 

In sports, in life and in our clot/U?s, it takes a little more to make a Champion. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" open Monday through Saturday 9a.m. -Sp.m . 
Stop in and register to win a free Champion sports bag filled with authentic Champion athletic apparel -a $250 value! 
Tuesday, December 8,1992 The Observer 

SPORTS BRIEFS Cooper named EMU head coach 
YPSILANTI, Mich. (AP) ­Eastern Michigan University on Monday named Notre Dame assistant coach Ron Cooper its new football coach. 
Cooper was Fighting Irish coach Lou Holtz's top assistant. He joined the team in 1991 as defensive backs coach. Cooper, a 31-year-old Huntsville, Ala., native, has been an assistant at Nevada­Las Vegas, East Carolina, Austin Peay and Murray State. Eastern finished the season tied for last in the Mid-Ameri­can Conference. It was 1-7 in the conference, 1-10 overall. Coach Jim Harkema resigned four games into the season. As­sistant Jan Quarless led the team the rest of the way. 

One out of two people who take the LSAT don't get into law school. To improve those odds, Practice with Kaplan now--so you can be a practicing lawyer later. 
Sign-up now for the February LSAT class! PHONE: 272-4135 

Ron Cooper 

KAPLAN 
The answer to the teat question. 
The NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
welcomes you to an autograph session with 
~.....,...,-."',..... "'~ ....... -... ..... ~-Fr.-Theodore M ~"Hesburgh 

Join us for a delightful afternoon of reflection 
with Father Theodore M. Hesburgh as he shares 
his many wonderful memories ofhis travels with 
his long time friend and former Executive Vice 
President, Father Edmund P. Joyce. Known 
affectionately to many as "Ted & Ned". 
We are offering a 25% discount on this book as 
well as all hardbound books during or Christmas 
Special! 

Tuesday, December 8, 2 -4p.m. 
The Notre Dame Bookstore 
"on the campus" 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Open Mondav -Saturday 9 -5.p.m. 
..,.:
-----------------~------------------------------------------------~-­
J 
page 13 


The Observer I Brian McDonough 

Senior goalie Carl Picconatto has performed well as a starter since having had only nine appearances before this season. 
I• 

And they need thatG0 a Ie motivation, as the Irish are 1­11-1 this season, their first in 
continued from page16 
the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
our success." 
Picconatto describes his 

Picconatto added, "Assistant 
strengths as quickness and an coach Jim Johnson has been a 
ability to recover from shots. great motivator for our team His attitude in the net and he keeps us up." sometimes helps him, as well. "I'm hot-headed; sometimes it works to my advantage and at a..+++~•t·-~4111... other times it can be a 
,. MAPLE ANE -.hindrance... 
• He hopes to continue playing : BARBER SHOP • the way he is right now and 
stay high and optimistic. He .HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 • added, "I need to play settled 
• SAT 8:00-3:00 • down and remain calm in the 2112 South Bend Avenue • net." 
• Appointments if desired "Carl's risen to the point 
• 272-6722 • where he deserves playing . .~:._ n.r~ "' • time," complimented Schafer, 
tT"fii."'J me Jwtre -vame . p· "th th 
. • gracmg 1cconatto WI e
i S 
commumtyforover 30 years hockey adage "first on the ice ...........and last off." 

-
Wednesday, Jan. 6 7:30 Joyce ACC Center 
Tickets available at all ~Outlets, Joyce ACC Box OffiCe, Karma Records, Select LS. Ayres Stores, Nightwinds and Hilltop Department Store 
Charge By Phone: 219-272-7979 
Produced By Sunshine PromotiaJS 
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, December 8,1992 
Pendergast honored as soccer team's MVP 
.,.ll;j;~• 5!:,··~ rhall Eootbaii<A· All-League Team ··. · 
Cl~ti · Chris Hammond Ru,.n~SJ 8acka -Matt Carr 
•·.·• Steve Romine 
Receivers· .lim Frank "Too" Keller Rick Rios 
Offensive Line • Tom Ysursa Sean Cahill Scott Sauer Chris Bane Court Pernell 

OefonsiYe Une .;. Jamie Downey Bob States Jack Hay Tom Miniscako 
Unebackers-Chris Monahan Nick Preservati JoeAdent Dave Dettory 
Defensive Backs-Justin Kruer Anthony Aguilar Rob Letherman Paul Shuga 
Kicker-Josh Tullis Zahm Off Campus Grace Fisher Flanner Zahm Zahm CavamlUoh 
Ke0n~:1 ­St. Ed's 0'1 c-, npus 
Kuon::~n 
Alumni Carr::-:1 Off C::~mpus Dillon Cavanaugh Alumni Keenan Morrissey Dillon Carroll Zahm Keen'ln 

-
THE AMERICAN RED CROSS Make a difference: 
Top Ground Gainer of '68 
Make a contribution 
Has Gone To The Air 

234-6636 adworks: the nd/smc advertising network 

Special to The Observer 

Senior defender Kevin Pen­dergast earned the 1992 Notre Dame men's soccer team's Most Valuable Player award Monday night at the team's banquet held at the Monogram Room in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Pendergast, who hails from 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 16 

son. He was the leading re­bounder for IV in his rookie campaign, averaging 7.9 a game. "He's much better to me than he was last year. He seems to be fitting in right with what In­diana wants him to do," MacLeod said. Knight can't be happy with one area of his team -the scoring of his point guard, Damon Bailey. He has shot 6-17 in the last three games the Hoosiers have played, plus 1-6 from the foul line. His assist-to-turnover ratio, however, is a stellar 13-1. 
Simsbury, Conn., had five goals and one assist for the Irish this year and finished lOth in career scoring with 71 total points in his four years and ninth in goal scoring with 29. He earned four monograms during his career. 
Mario Tricoci, team captain, and Brendan Dillman, both se­niors, were also honored. Tric­oci started the last 57 games of his career and Dillman earned 
Last season's contest between the Hoosiers and the Irish isn't one Notre Dame wants to re­member. In MacLeod's second game as head coach, the Irish got spanked, 78-46, by Indiana. Notre Dame hit just 36.7% of its shots on the night. "Indiana just thoroughly dominated us last year. We had all kinds of difficulty running our offense, which is a tribute to their defense." MacLeod had nothing but praise for the Hoosiers. "I was impressed with Indiana. This is another very strong Indiana team," said MacLeod."Indiana poses many, many problems. They're a multi-talented team. They run the ball up court better than 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
four monograms. 

The "Coach's Award" went to sophomore Kevin Adkisson. He started 16 contests and had one assist. 
Mike Palmer, a junior from South Bend, earned the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph's scholar-athlete award. He started in all 19 games and notched four goals and three assists. 
anybody gives them credit for." MacLeod is also pleased with where his Irish team is after two games. "2-0 is a good mark at this stage," he said. "This is the real thing, not practice. We see the need to battle. We had better be feisty. 
CELEBRATE THE LAST NIGHT OF THE SEMESTER 1992 Christmas Specials 
9--2 
must be 21 

\J4KeQ. ~tu.J_y 9rea."...•Come see @ THJ.EE CHEERS Fo~ SlcYBUsTE]l.. ~o#~$ 
CDO/ ~~ breJ. 
• 
'~------......_ 
Vidoti<lS Reo.l ~ec·re-1 

CHi set 

Bn011, Colift, &VinCI!.­




CALVIN AND HOBBES  BILL WATIERSON  
~E:.~R  SCINtCI.  
This '(E~R.  I  doN't  
WqNt  <lNY  GittS.  I  
just Wd.Nt  LOVE:  G\Nq  
I'E<l(E  toR  M'(  fELLoW  
1'1\<lN.  
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  31 Reverential fear  54 Black bird  
1 Psalms words 7 Former coin of G.B. 10 Kin of cabbage 14 Mercury, e.g. 15 Prefix with fix  32 Valuable violin 35 Bridge seat 36 Bahrain potentate 37 Draw or tie 40Afghan's continent  55 Salad topper 60 Two-toed sloth 61 Padre's sister 62 Participates . 63 Backless slipper 64 Wapiti  
16 Old Greek  41 Do, e.g.  65 Rate  
money  42 Nonstandard  
nSwimming stroke 20 N .F.L. scores 21 Bearing 22 Rad. x 2 23 Steak house chef's action  verbs 43 RR structure 44 Salt tree 45 Uno plus due 46Certain solutions 48 Fastens  DOWN 1 Once-stylish footwear 2 Avoid artfully 3 "And every­queen": Kingsley 
25 Damp state  52 Norm: Abbr.  4Hilldweller  
29 Latin connectors  53 Son of  5 Reclusive  
30Abhor  Agrippina  6 Discolors  
7 Make yarn  
8 "-pro nobis"  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Feud  '=-+-+--+-­ 
~~,.........,  10 Muslims' sacred  1-:::--+-+--+­ 
book  
~~eE-l  11 Goat's-hair  
fabric  
12 Kind of beam  32 Accumulate  47 Come forth  55 Jamaican  
--.:~:..e~.-..,;iiol  13 Annex  33 Memorable  48 Sun. talk  export  
18 Journey part  hostess  49 Poker option  56 Burmese  
~~~ .,;,r.:;...E~  19 Summon to  34Forming a  so City near Dallas  statesman  
court  center line  51 Omens  57 Gal of songdom  
~=-+==~  24 Networks of  35Chemical  53 Bismarck is  58 Naught  
nerves  compounds  here: Abbr.  59 Kin of aves.  
25 Devastate  36 Rene's farewell  
26DeValera  38 Precede  
~~.:..&-;,...:,:..R~,::..j 27 Founder of Lilliput -=+::~~ 28 Slaves of yore ..;;;...L.;~...t...;;;...J 30Hurry  chronologically 39 Deep stupor 440pposed 45 Singer Brewer  Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute).  

Today 


Tuesday, December 8, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 




ay Perm pec1a 
Has Your Tan 
FADED?
$19
95includes shampoo, conditioner ~nd haircut Revive your tan with our (additional charge for longer ha1r) an $8.00 savings 
EUROTA
expires 12/31/92 
tanning beds 1 0 for $35gg or $5QQ per single sessionwe with student 10 
"Sheriff! Ben Wiggins is ridin' into town, and he's wearin' that same little chiffon number that he wore when he shot Jake Sutton!" 
NEW GA!UdEJ~Jir~E FREE DOMI~~;lf~N~~c~g~h~~~!J!rf'lDO 
NEW TWISTY BREAD™ FREE 
with every doubles order! 
Call Now  Valid at participating stores only.  Not valid with any  
NO  271 -_0300  other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our  
SMC  289,QQ3)  drivers carry less than $10. Our drivers arc not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza. Inc.  
MENU  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Roast Turkey  Italian Bar with Shrimp  
Irish Fried Flounder  Scampi  
Egg Foo Young  Lasagna  
Honey Glazed Chicken  
LECTURES  
Tuesday  

3:30p.m. Seminar. UReaction Engineering of Flame Process," Jon H. Olson, University of Delaware. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored bu Chemical Engineering. 
7:30 p.m. Lecture, "Thy will be done: Mary, an example for all of us," Rev. Steve Gibson, Director of Fatima Retreat House. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Sponsored by Dolores Tantoco-Stavder. librarian, Notre Dame. 
CAMPUS Tuesday 

4:15p.m. Colloquium in History and Philosophy of Science, "Science and Selection: The Limits of Evolutionary Epistemology," Kim Sterelny, Victoria University ol Wellington, New Zealand, and Northwestern University. Room 209, DeBartolo Hall. Sponsored by Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values and NOtre Dame Program in History and Philosophy of Science. 

Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, December 8,1992 
Work ethic, love of hockey drive Picconatto to start
NICOLE 

MCGRATH 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA for the game as the reason for his ern Michigan. Picconatto called the WMU Sports Writer outstanding work ethic. game "an 100% effort all the way This drive is even more impressive in through the team." 
I DID IT MY WAY Carl Picconatto began the Notre Dame light of the amount of time he played The Irish managed to upset the Broncos hockey season as a career backup. early in his career at Notre Dame. Pic­as Picconatto saved a barrage of shots in Throughout his career as a goalie, the eonatto did not see action in his the final minute. He credited the play of 

A Christmas Wish for SMC's Dalcaso: a single vote 
One vote short. 

That's all Saint Mary's soccer forward Megan Dalsaso was from making first team all-regional for the NCAA Division III Great Lakes Region's soccer squad. 
Instead, for the second year in a row, Dalsaso made second team all­regional. Considering, she was selected from over 100 women varying from states like Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky and West Virginia, Dalsaso is rightly proud. 
''Although I was one vote away from first team. I am very happy about being picked," said Dalsaso. "Actually, I wasn't sure where I would fit in be­cause of all the good teams this year." 
According to Saint Mary's athletic director, Jo-Ann Nester, the fact that Dalsaso is a junior probably was a large factor in why she didn't make first-team. That wasn't all. 
"When you're in a conference, you have eight other coaches backing up your choice," she said. "Since we are independent, we are sometimes at a disadvantage." 
So what that she is only a junior? So what if Saint Mary's soccer team is independent? Not placing Dalsaso on the first-team and her not making All­American is a huge oversight. 
But I'll let Dalsaso's record defend my opinion. 
In the past seven years that the Saint Mary's soccer team existed as a varsity program, Dalsaso has accomplished 
the following: 

• La?t year, Dalsaso scored 14 goals 
setting the school record for most goals scored in one season. 
• 
This year, Dalsaso broke her own record by scoring 15 goals. 

• 
Dalsaso is the all-time leading scorer for Saint Mary's soccer overall. 

• 
This year, Dalsaso became the all­time leader in assists. 


Now tell me, what else does a soccer player have to do to get noticed in the Great Lakes Hegion? 
"It's amazing that she now holds the assists record because not only is she the leading scorer but she is altruistic in team play , as well," noted Nester. 
"I was excited she made second team again but I also had mixed feelings since I was hoping she'd make first 
team," said Saint Mary's soccer coach Tom VanMeter. Dalsaso has every reason in the world to be proud of her achievements. 
It is the coaches belonging to the Great Lakes Region who should not be proud of Dalsaso falling one vote short. 
... 
senior had appeared in only nine games. freshman campaign. As a sophomore, he his defenders Eric Gregoire and Matt But Picconatto entered the goalie rota­appeared in only one game. Osiecki for the WMU win which he tion at Illinois-Chicago and saved 28 In his junior season, Pieconatto saw described as "a great win the team 
shots, helping the Irish to a tie. Since action in only eight games, and as he needed." then, he has started in three of the last entered his final season, he figured he Picconatto notices a major difference in 
four games. wouldn't see much playing time. But the attitude of this year's young Notre fortunately for the goalie, he has seen Dame team. lie pointed to the strong Irish coach Ric Schafer described playing time. senior leadership this year and to a Jot of 
Picconatto as, "the hardest working Picconatto has been Notre Dame's best enthusiasm which he called "essential to goaltender I've ever been around." The goalie. He followed his UIC performance five foot nine Picconatto credits his love with an outstanding effort against West-see Goalie/page 13 
IU presents ranked challange for Irish 
By RICH KURZ second game for the Irish, led Associate Sports Editor the team with 21 points. "lie is a player who is not 
So far this season, the Irish afraid to shoot the ball," Irish men's basketball team has coach John MacLeod said of passed its two tests. Tonight, Hoover. "He trusts his talent they get their biggest test to and believes his shot will fall. date in the early season. "lie's a tough, hard-nosPd, Bob Knight brings his fifth­competitive young man." ranked Indiana Hoosiers to the The Hoosiers arc led by All­Joyce ACC tonight, which is American forward Calbert sold out for the game. Indiana Cheaney, a senior. Cheaney was comes ofT a 74-69 loss to the the leading scorer for Indiana Kansas Jayhawks Saturday in last season, averaging 17.6 Indianapolis. points and 4.9 rebounds a 
The Hoosiers were ranked game. first in several polls before the "lie's a shooter, driver and loss to Kansas, after an im­slasher," MacLeod said. "A big­pressive showing in the Big time shooter from three-point Apple NIT Tournament. Indiana range. I'm not sure who we're defeated Tulane to open the going to start on Cheaney. lie tournament, and then knocked poses many problems. he's very off Florida State, currently aetive. ranked no. 10. The Hoosiers "It's tough to keep the ball then defeated highly touted away from him, beeause he Seton !!all in the finals. moves so well without the ball." 
But Cheaney isn't the only 
Notre Dame, on the other threat the Hoosiers pose. They hand, is 2-0 after coming from also boast Alan Henderson, a 6­behind to defeat Evansville 76-9 forward who was on the all­70 on Sunday. Freshman point Big 10 freshman team last sea-guard Hyan Hoover, starting his see Hoosiers/page 14 
Lorton earns All-Region for SMC volleyball 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's volleyball player and senior co-captain Karen Lorton has been named a member of the 1992 Ali-Hegion team by the NCAA Division III and the American Volleyball Coaches Association. 
There are four states and 87 schools which are represented in the region. Lorton is one of the 12-member team to illustrate the region's finest. 
The only other Saint Mary's volleyball player to capture a title happens to be second-year volleyball coach Julie Schroeder-Biek in 1986, when Schroeder­Biek was a student at Saint Mary's. At the 

. \~
time, Saint Mary's participated in the NAIA organization and Schroeder-Biek San\\MaJ secured an All-State title. 

The Observer I Marguerite Schropp Saint Mary's senior co-captain Karen Lorton (left) was announced as a member of the first team All-Region Team. Her coach Julie Schroeder-Biek (right/middle) is the only other Belle to receive this honor. 
"This was a goal I was trying to reach Dr. Jo-Ann Nester, Saint Mary's athletic and I'm happy I achieved it," stated director, has witnessed Karen's Lorton. "But my success is not based on increasing ability since Karen's freshman awards or rankings. I rate my suceess on year. being able to play with a great team and "She reminded me a great deal of Julie with players such as Kim (Branstetter), (Schroeder-Biek) when she was a Michelle (Martino) and Lisa (Panowicz). freshman," said Nester. "One of the best My success also has been possible things about Karen is that she is such a because of having a coach like total team player, and I don't think she Schroeder-Biek." even realizes just how good she is." 


