


1342·1992 SESQUICENTENNIAL 

eObserver 
Samt Marys College 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 113 THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

South Africans vote to end apartheid Mandela: 'I still cannot vote' 
JOHANNESBURG, South pie and Indians drew 76 per­Africa (AP) -Nelson Mandela cent. said Wednesday that apartheid "Today, we have closed the was "very much alive" in South book on apartheid," said de Africa, despite white voters' Klerk, who celebrated his 56th stunning endorsement of plans birthday Wednesday. to share power with the black The election gave de Klerk the majority, decisive mandate he needs to 
Whites voted 68.7 percent to continue negotiations with 
31.3 percent Tuesday to forge Mandela's African National ahead with talks that will end Congress and other black white rule and give blacks vot­groups. ing rights for the first time in But major issues remain to be South Africa's history. The resolved and there is not likely margin of support for President to be a swift transfer of power. 
F.W. de Klerk's reforms was The gulf between the govern­much higher than expected and ment and the ANC was high­was a jolt to pro-apartheid lighted Wednesday afternoon white conservatives. when thousands of ANC sup­
De Klerk won in 14 of 15 porters marched in major cities electoral districts, apparently to protest the 1992-93 budget. bolstered by a record voter The budget, announced turnout of more than 85 per­shortly after the final vote re­cent. sults, includes vast disparities 
The last major election, the in social services for blacks and 
The Observer/Sean Farnan 
1989 vote for Parliament, drew whites and was denounced by
That old world atmosphere 
69 percent of the voters. A 1983 the ANC as an "apartheid bud­vote creating Parliament get."
Graduate students Jonathon Cox, Tony Howie and Rossette Agostino (left to right) find yesterday's grand 
chambers for mixed-race peo­
see S. AFRICA I page 4 opening of Allegro, LaFortune's new coffee house, a better place to work than the library. 


Task force chair discusses new ND smoking policy 
By SARAH DORAN des owned, leased or operated was composed of 14 students, two places on campus where 
News Writer by the University," states a • Graphic/page 4 faculty and administrative of­the air is not recirculated while portion of the smoking policy, ficials including the directors of in all of the other places the which cites health reasons as its •approved smoking lounges the Morris Inn, J.A.C.C. and the smoke in the air is diluted and 
Notre Dame's new campus rationale. that are totally enclosed and Library. recirculated, he said. smoking policy was created be­There are five exceptions to properly ventilated. It met through the summer to Duman also mentioned that cause the rights of non-smokers the smoking ban. Smoking may The policy will also be related decide on the policy and so­the U.S. Environmental Protec­
take precedent over the wishes be permitted in: -to future students and faculty licited information from stu­tion Agency is currently con­of smokers, according to John •private offices not open to ahead of time. dents, rectors and other mem­ducting a study to determine Duman, chairman of the the public; The task force that created bers of the community to help guidelines on safe levels of to­smoking policy task force. •dormitory rooms if the the policy was formed in March, make the decision. The task bacco related chemicals in "The University of Notre roommates consent; 1991 at the request of force voted 13 to 1 in approval buildings. If the study finds that Dame. out of concern for the •graduate housing pendant University President Edward of the adopted policy. chemicals in the air in Uni­health, safety and well being of upon the consent of roommates; Malloy by the Environmental Duman supported the cre­versity buildings exceed these the members of the campus •individual hotel rooms of the Issues Committee, according to ation of the smoking policy and guidelines, the task force will 
community establishes... [that] Morris Inn although some Duman, who is associate dean cited the medical evidence of provide appropriate guidelines. smoking is prohibited in all rooms will become permanently of the College of Science and a the health hazards of second buildings, stadiums, and vehi-smoke free, and biology professor. The group hand smoke. There are only see SMOKING I page 4 
ND swimmer returns to campus 
By KATE KECKLER and brace, which hopefully I can talked with all my teachers, and take off in about a month," said they've all been supportive. I
JASON KELLY 
Scott, "after that, my surgeon have to make up all the tests,
News Writers 
says I may be able to start but they are going to waive diving." some things like quizzes. 
Notre Dame swimmer Haley 
After the accident and "Also, I can stay after a fewScott returned to campus this subsequent surgeries, the weeks if I need to, but I hope toweek and is successfully recov­
doctors didn't know if she go home on time," she said.
ering from injuries sustained 
would ever walk again. Less "The faculty and athletic de­
during the Jan. 24 swim team 
than two months later, however, partment have been great, get­bus accident. 
she is not only walking, but she ting me anything I need," Scott
Despite sustaining severe 
is back in the pool trying to said. "It's nice to have peoplespinal injuries, Scott is recover­regain her swimming form. understand what you're goinging from extensive surgery and "A lot of it was attributed to through."
hopes to be swimming competi­the good shape I was in before "The lunch lady just abouttively as early as next year. 
the accident, but other than freaked out the other day when Scott, a Lyons Hall freshman, that it was just luck," Scott she took my J.D. She jumped"was discharged from Memorial commented. "They never pre­right off the stool and gave meHospital in South Bend on the dicted anything for me, the a big hug. I think the line gotThursday before break, and she doctor said it is a miracle." all backed up. It's great to be
spent break at home in 
Although Scott's recovery has back."
Phoenix," said her rector Sister been quick, walking around Returning to school is just theKathleen Beatty. "She returned 
campus still presents a chal­first step in her recovery pro­
to campus the Friday after 
lenge. Beatty has attempted to cess, however, she said. Even­break." 
ease Scott's difficulties of get­tually she hopes to return to the"I'm doing great," Scott said ting around on campus. "We've swim team, adding anotherin a Tuesday interview. ''I've moved Haley and her roommate milestone to an already re­been doing out-patient therapy down to the first floor, and she markable comeback.
at Memorial Hospital in South drives a golf cart with her name "I will swim with the teamBend every day. I swim, and 
on it to her classes," said again," Scott explained. "Inow I'm working on a lot of 
Beatty. don't know when, maybe thehigher-level balance stuff like Scott plans on catching up in beginning or middle of next 
The Observer/Sean Farnan
practicing walking on my heels 
all her classes, and finishing season, but I will compete 
Swimmer Haley Scott, a Lyons Hall freshman, returns to campus life
and skipping and running." 
this semester on time. ''I've again." 
while recovering from the swim team bus accident. 
"I've been wearing a back 

page 2 Thursday, March 1-9, 1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
FORECAST:  
··. ·'l{: :::  Cloudy with a 40 percent chance of snow in the morning. Highs in the upper 30s.  
~~  TEMPERATURES:  

MTV, 1980's pop culture remembered As I was playing with my Rubik's Cube the other day, I began to ponder, with some irritation, that somewhere between Oliver Stone's distorted nostalgia for the 1960s and the revival of classic rock and disco, too many people have undervalued the News Writer worth of the pop culture o that "greed decade" -the 1980s. Maybe it's because of the backlash against the 1980s because of Iran-Contra and corporate greed, or maybe it's because we're only two years into the 1990s, but somehow songs Like Wall of Voodoo's "Mexican Radio" just haven't worked their way into today's pop culture like "Light My Fire" and "December '63 (Oh, What a Night)" have. The 1980s, in particular the earlier half of the decade, were a time when most of us were in the first years of high school or junior high. The music of Michael Jackson and Bruce Springsteen should serve as a perennial soundtrack to the memories of our years o puberty and coming-of-age. But what do we hear on the radio and see in the movies? Jethro Tull's "Aqualung" and 1969. It's time for a change. Personally, I revel in my memories of being fascinated by the breakdancers in the video for Lionel Ritchie's "All Night Long." I gave my best efforts at breakdancing, although I could never master that windmill leg move. I often hurt myself. Because of statutes of limitations, I can now confess to my mother that I used to sneak into R-rated teen sex movies like "Porky's" and "Joysticks." Where are all the teen sex movies o the 1990s? Instead we have to watch "JFK," another example of Oliver Stone's nostalgia for a past we never had. I'd take "The Outsiders," "Footloose," or "Red Dawn" over any Stone movie. Who can recite the names of the five original MTV V-J's? With a little effort, we can all recall the smiling faces of J. J. Jackson, Alan Hunter, Mark Goodman, Martha Quinn, and Nina Blackwood, the last of whom I thought deserved much more air time than she received. And wasn't MTV so much better then? The early '80s were the days of Duran Duran's "Hungry Like the Wolf," Men Without Hats' "Safety Dance" and Dexey's Midnight Runners' "Come On, Eilleen." Those were videos! Regular T.V. of the 1980s has been ignored, too. Instead of seeing an overabundance of "Hill Street Blues," "Webster," or "The Greatest American Hero," we see re-runs of "Three's Company" and "Gomer Pyle." A record company could make a killing if it released a compilation of 1980s music, laced with gems like Eddy Grant's "Electric Avenue," or Tommy Tutone's "867-5309 (Jenny)." The pop culture of the early 1980s is a source of common memories for all of us. Let the nco­Deadheads and other pretenders reminisce about times before they were born. I command all of my fellow vidiots to rise up and be proud of a culture that we can truly call our own. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author.  

Today's Staff Production Business Kathy Fang Andy Runkle Cher¥1Moser Fransisco Lozano Sports Systems Jenny Marten Fritz Valsaint News Pete Loftus Alicia Reale Becky Barnes The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  

I 

City H L Amarillo 59 38 Anchorage 34 20 Birmingham 67 61 Bogota 73 46 Boise 57 28 Brownsville 91 70 Burlington, Vt. 30 8 Cairo 70 54 Charlene, N.C. 65 52 
Chicago 36 29 Denver 49 34 Dharan 68 59 Flagstaff 49 24 Havana 77 54 Indianapolis 43 33 Kiev 39 27 Las Vegas 68 46 Lima 84 70 Oslo 48 34 Salt Lake City 50 36 San Antonio 85 63 San Diego 65 54 San Francisco 71 50 South Bend 43 36 Taipei 68 61 Topeka 43 35 Washington. D.C. 43 36 Warsaw 43 27 

HIGH LO~r SHO!ot£RS RAIN T.STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
TODA'r AT AGLANCE 

CAMPUS 

Senior re!ceives scholarship 
• NOTRE DAME-William Moran, a University of Notre Dam€1 senior from Hope, R.I., has been awarded the Rotary Foundation's Japan Program Scholarship. The recently instituted award was given this year to 15 scholars representing eight countries. Moran will begin the 21-month program in July with intensive language training for nine months followed by an academic year at Kyoto University, where he will do research on the effect of culture and tradition on the modern politics of Japan. Moran will graduate this year with majors in Japanese studies and government and international studies. Moran will be the third Notre Dame student to study at Kyoto University. 
Hispanic seminar to be held 
• NOTRE llAME -A seminar to address the needs and contrib111tions of hispanics at Notre Dame will be held Tuesday at 4:30p.m. in the library lounge, accord­ing to Theology Professer Josephine Ford and Concur­rent Lecturer L. Isabel Jakeb. All students and faculty are encouraged to attend the seminar, titled "Hispanic Town and Gown." It will allow students to meet six hispanic leaders in the community: Maritza Robles, 
M.A. director of bilingual education; Hugo Gutierrez. coordinator of cursillos at St. Stephen's Hispanic Catholic Church; Marie Salazar, president of Guadalu­panas Society; Marianne Payakowski, president of the board of La Casa de Amistad; Adela Waymouth, leader of the Hispanic Charismatic Prayer Group; and Terry Garcia of the Midwest Hispanic Catholic Commission. 
Caller impersonates NO Security 
• NOTRE DAME -A female student received a phone call from a man impersonating a Notre Dame Security officer at 2:30 a.m. on March 4, according to Assistant Director of University Security, Charles Hur­ley. Hurley said the man told the student he had found that her car had been struck while he was checking the lot, and he asked her to meet a security guard at the lot to check the damage. The student walked to the lot and found no damage to her car and no one waiting. Security advises any student receiving a similar call to ask the name of the officer and verify it with Security to be safe. 
OF INTERE!iT 
•ND/SMC 
Ballroom Dance Club will not meet today. Class will resume next week. Location to be announced. 

•"Careers 
with the Government" -Information about federal, state, and local government will be available today from 4-S p.m. in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 

•Rediscoverling 
Our Roots -A five-week lecture series on the history of Saint Mary's begins today. Sr. Miriam Cooney will be presenting "Life at Saint Mary's College in the Golden Era of the 1950's" in Stapleton Lounge at 4 


p.m. All are welcome. 
•"Preparing for an Effective Job Search" will be presented by P'aul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services Office tonight at 6:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Juniors of all majors are encouraged to at­tend. 
•sesquicentennial 
Student Week -Day 2: Coach Lou Holtz presents the motivational speech heard across the country, "Trust, Love, and Commitment" at Stepan Center tonight at 7 p.m. 

•The 
Spanish Club will meet today at 7 p.m. in the ISO lounge, 2nd floor LaFortune. Call Alex Armas at 283­1599 with questions. 

•Volunteering 
with L'Arche (USA-International) will be discussed and clarified with Joe Vorstermans (Daybreak­Canada) and Martin O'Malley (L'Arche-Mobile), Director of Central U.S. Region of L'Arche, at the CSC between 11:30 a.m.-12:15 p.m .. Friday. 

•1991-1992 
Student Leadership Awards nomination forms are now available at the LaFortune Information Desk. Deadline for submission of nomination forms is March 30. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ March 18 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 190,813,800 225.94 ..ijr 0.07 
{}-0.43 
{}-1.79 


• 
In 1903: The U.S. gained naval bases at Guantanomo and Bahia Honda. 

• 
In 1924: U.S. troops were sent to the Honduran capital of Tegucigalpa as the city was taken by rebel forces. 

• 
In 1936: Floods swept 12 Midwestern states, leaving 134 dead and 200,000 homeless. 

• 
In 1949: The Soviet People's Council signed the constitu­tion of German Democratic Republic. 

•In 
1962: Troops in Guatemala imposed a state of siege. 

• 
In 1981 : One technician was killed and two others were injured during a test on the space shuttle Columbia in Florida. 


.r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 19, 1992 The Observer 

Germany bids farewell to U.S. army unit, stationed there since 1951 
----------------~ 
page 3 

Please recycle this paper when you are finished with it. 

A CONTEMPORARY CAFE WITH A TOUCH OF THE OLD WORLD 


SPECIALS MARCH 18-22, 1992 
CINNAMON ROLL AND SMALL COFFEE $1.35 
ANY SANDWICH AND A SMALL SOFT DRINK $3.40 
SOUP AND SALAD $2.35 
$ .20 OFF ALL CONES OR CUPS OF ICE CREAM 
OPEN: 7:30AM UNTIL 2:00AM-MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY 
10:00 AM UNTIL 2:00 AM -SATURDAY AND SUNDAY LOCATED IN THE LOWER LEVEL OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

STUTTGART, Germany (AP) ­Germany on Wednesday bade farewell to the U.S. Army's VII Corps, the formidable fighting force whose soldiers battled on the Normandy beaches and in the Gulf War. 
The 72,000 VII Corps soldiers, the largest U.S. Army Corps stationed in Europe, had been headquartered in Stuttgart since October 19 51. 
"I will miss you. I didn't want you to leave," said Stuttgart Mayor Manfred Rommel, the son of Erwin Rommel, the "Desert Fox" commander of German forces in North Africa in World War II. 
The fall of the Iron Curtain and the collapse of communism ended the mission of the VII Corps, which will be officially deactivated in April in the United States as part of the U.S. forces drawdown in Europe. 
From 72,000 troops, the VII Corps has dwindled to fewer than 1,000 soldiers. 
It was activated on Aug. 19, 1918 in the Vosges Mountains of southern France, serving as a training center for American troops in World War I. Follow­ing the armistice, it performed occupation duties in Belgium, Luxembourg and Germany until May 1919. 
Reactivated in 1940, the corps moved to England in September 1943 to prepare for the mightiest invasion in history. 
The corps, also called "Jayhawk," took part in the Normandy invasion on June 6, 1944, at Utah Beach. Its divi­sions drove across Europe, covering 1,200 miles in 337 combat days and defeating 51 enemy divisions. 
On April 26, 1945, patrols of the 9th and 104th Infantry divi­sions met elements of the Sovi­ets' First Ukrainian Army. 
Returning to Germany in 1951, the corps served as the bulwark against the threat of a Warsaw Pact invasion, on NATO front lines. 
Soon after the Berlin Wall collapsed in November 1989, it ended its border surveillance mission. But its fighting days were not over. 
In November 1990, it was ordered to Saudi Arabia in re­sponse to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. 
By February 1991, the corps was the largest and heaviest armored corps ever fielded by the U.S. Army, and 146,000 Jayhawk soldiers took part in the U.S.-led offensive to liberate Kuwait. 
Jayhawk units defeated Sad­dam Hussein's crack Republi­can Guards and then returned to Germany to complete their final mission -withdrawal from the country where they had been stationed for 41 years. 
The day of farewells opened with a ceremony in Stuttgart's City Theater, with the U.S. Army Band and Chorus performing "Gershwin's Melody." 
Speeches followed, inter­spersed with the renditions of "America's Best" and "Swing Low Sweet Chariot." 
German Defense Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said the "substantial presence" of American troops in western Europe and Germany "remains the nucleus of our security partnership in the alliance." 
Stuttgart Mayor Rommel thanked the United States and its soldiers for the 4 7 years of freedom. 
"No other victorious nation had ever helped the defeated one so much," Rommel said. 
"God bless you. And visit us every now and then," Rommel concluded. 
The ceremony then moved to the square in front of Stuttgart's New Castle for a parade by 250 U.S., French, German and Canadian soldiers. 
The Observer/Sean Faman 

Your future 8 a.m. destination? 
As the new DeBartolo Classroom Building grows nearer to completion, students can see where they may be spending their early class hours next semester. 



DEA rejects the use of marijuana as medicine 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Drug Enforcement Administra­tion on Wednesday rejected anew a bid to allow marijuana to be used for medical pur­poses, saying advocates of the drug's therapeutic properties are perpetuating a "cruel hoax." 
"By any modern scientific standard, marijuana is no medicine," DEA Administrator Robert Bonner said in his 46­page decision that keeps mari­juana classified as a Schedule I drug, subject to the most severe restrictions and available only for research. 
"Beyond doubt, the claims that marijuana is medicine are false, dangerous and cruel," Bonner wrote. " ... It is a cruel hoax to offer false hope to des­perately ill people." 
The decision, in accord with those of previous DEA chiefs, was in response to a federal appeals court decision in April that told the agency to restudy its position. The Court of Ap­peals for the District of Columbia said the DEA may have used inappropriate crite­ria in determining that mari­juana has no therapeutic use. 
Bonner's ruling is "the same old story," said Kevin Zeese of the Drug Policy Foundation, which served as counsel for the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. 
NORML has gone to the ap­pellate court six times seeking to switch marijuana's classifi­cation to Schedule II, drugs that have a high potential for abuse but that also have a "currently accepted medical use" for treatment and thus are available for doctors to prescribe, Zeese said. 
"Each time, the court's ruled in our favor, told the DEA it's being unreasonable, and they just keep being unreasonable," said Zeese, who vowed to ap­peal the decision a seventh time. 
The drugs on Schedule II in­clude the main target of the na­tion's war on drugs -cocaine -as well as opium, morphine and codeine. Schedule I includes heroin, methaqualone, LSD and most other hallucinogens, marijuana and hashish. 
Advocates of the medical use of marijuana say it combats nausea, vomiting and weight loss common to cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy and to some AIDS sufferers; reduces eye pressure in the treatment of glaucoma and helps reduce muscle spasms common to such neurological conditions as multiple sclerosis. 
But Bonner dismissed such arguments, saying experts in the medical fields involved be­lieve marijuana is not good medicine for the ailments. 

a llttle. .. 
Warehouse 
& & The Spaghetti Warehouse 501 N. Niles Downtown South Bend 
-------------~--------------------------------------------~--------­
page 4 The Observer Thursday, March 19, 1992 


S. Africa 
continued from page 1 

There also are sharp differ­ences between the black groups taking part in negotiations, particularly the ANC and the Inkatha Freedom Party. The two groups are engaged in a violent struggle for power. 
Mandela welcomed the out­come of Tuesday's referendum, but warned it must be the "absolute last" whites-only vote. There are 3 million whites and 30 million blacks in South Africa. 
"Apartheid is still very much alive. I still cannot vote in my own country," Mandela told re­porters. 
A radical black group, the Pan Africanist Congress, de­nounced the vote. "The all­white referendum is an obscen­ity and an insult to the dispos­sessed masses of our country," it said. The PAC has refused to negotiate with the government. 
Andries Treurnicht, leader of the pro-apartheid Conservative Party, conceded defeat. 
"Mr. de Klerk has won his referendum, just like 

Smoking 
continued from page 1 

When asked about the smok­ers whom the policy is affect­ing, Duman stated, "It is not a minority we are trying to pick on." He elaborated that the policy "wasn't trying to stop smoking on campus because it is immoral." 
The policy is a courtesy to non-smokers and especially to those allergic to smoke, said Duman, adding that it is "not an inherent right to smoke." According to Duman, a nUtmber of people said that the policy did not go far enough. He cited a bulletin to management by The Bureau of National Affairs stating that 40 percent of com­panies have a total ban on smoking. 
NO graduate student Joel Barstad was the one dissenting vote of the task force. Barstad stated that he believes that "the freedom of those who wish to smoke is unnecessarily re­stricted" by the new policy. 
Percentage of Major Corporations with a Smoking Policy 
85% 
54% 


36% 



1986 1987 1991 
Year 

Source: Bureau of Narl Affairs The Observer I Eric Kreidler 
"Education and smoking ces­opinion, a reasonable and de­sation programs are, in my sirable response," said Barstad. 
"The drafted policy ... entails the unnecessary restriction of freedom," said Barstad, adding that "there is more at stake here than clean air." 
Above his personal dissent of the approved smoking policy, Barstad said, "In my judge­ment, the NO staff--the group that will be most affected by the new policy--and their interests were not adequately and effectively represented." Ac­cording to Barstad, "Percentage wise, the staff certainly has the most smokers." 
He said that out of the 14 members of the task force, only two were smokers, and one of these was trying to quit, leaving him as the only smoker. But Barstad said that he is "not criticizing the selection process of the task force." 
Duman commented on the statement proposed by Barstad regarding inadequate represen­tation of staff by citing that only 22-23 percent of the population smokes. In accordance with this statistic it is not unrealistic that there may be only one smoker in a group of 14, said Duman. 
Gorbachev won his. Gorbachev is today out of power ... and Mr. de Klerk is negotiating his own government out of power," Treurnicht said. 
Right-wing groups say they will fight rather than accept a black government. 
Several blacks interviewed on the streets of Johannesburg ei­ther had not heard of the refer­endum or were pessimistic it would improve their lives. 
"Change?" said Tebago Mphaki, a black student. "It's been like this forever, and this won't bring any big change." 
Abby Gerald, who is also black, was more optimistic. "I think this is what I've been waiting for," he said. 
When de Klerk came to power in August 1989, he was viewed as a stalwart of the governing National Party who would con­tinue its policies of white domi­nation. But within six months, he stunned the world by legalizing black opposition groups and freeing Mandela after 27 years in prison for trying to topple the white government. 
De Klerk abolished major apartheid laws, but he was forced to go back to nervous whites and plead for a mandate after the National Party was trounced by the Conservatives in two special elections to fill parliamentary seats. 
Call For A Fr~~ 1992 Stud~nt Travel catalog! 


If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303. 





Atte~ntion all students 
The Sophomore Cl~s Council is proud to sponsor the lecture entitled 
hServicing Others" 
given by 

Fr. Michael Rimes 
tonight at 7:00pm in the esc. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

(moved fr<>m the Library Auditorium) 

CLASS OF 1994 

Thursday, March 19, 1992 The Observer page 5 

Anchors away, sailors! 
While yesterday's winds made walking around campus chilly, it may have been good sailing weather, as shown by the full sails on this ship on top of Hurley Hall. 

Japanese still reject birth control pill 
TOKYO (AP) -The govern­ment Wednesday refused to ease its strict control on birth control pills, fearing AIDS could spread if oral contraceptives reduced condom use. 
Pharmaceutical firms had ex­pected approval to sell low­dosage birth control pills, but officials said more study was needed on a possible rise in cases of acquired immune defi­ciency syndrome. 
The Health and Welfare Min­istry was examining a request by nine companies seeking to import and manufacture birth control pills. 


Henri]. M. Nouwen 
well known author and speaker and L'Arche and Enznzaus Conzpanions 


"God's Love Experienced in Community" 
Thursday, March 19, 1992 7:30p.m. Library Auditorium Ad1nission Free 
• 
for all who are searching for a deeper appreciation ofGod's love and gifts 

• 
for all who are interested in sen,ice and ministry ofany kind 

• 
for all who work or lil'e with the det•elopmenta/ly disabled 


"Considering how quickly AIDS is spreading in Japan re­cently, the release of birth con­trol pills may boost the disease depending on how they are used," said a ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Japan limits birth control pill use for medical problems such as irregular menstruation. 
The government had for years opposed the pill, citing fears of side effects and harm to public morality. But in 1986, it finally set guidelines for clini­cal testing. 
Oral contraceptives, consid-
An Evening 

with 

ered the most effective birth control method, were first ap­proved in the United States more than 30 years ago and are used by an estimated 60 million women worldwide. 
Ministry officials said an AIDS Surveillance Committee report listed 238 people with AIDS or having the AIDS virus in Japan -compared with 97 in 1990. 
Mizuho Fukushima, a lawyer active in women's issues, told the newspaper Yomiuri: "I am not a big supporter of pills, but the approval should be solely based on judgments of whether their use is safe for women. 
WoRSIIIP SERVICE & RECEPTION "Celebrating the Variety of Our Gifts" Priday, March 20-7:30p.m. Epworth Memorial United Methodist Church 
2404 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
REFLECTION & PRAYER 
"Listening to God's Call in a Noisy World: Discipleship and the Spiritual Life" Saturday, March 21-2:00-5:30 p.m. 
Center for Social Concerns 
Jnflnwed by a s11pper tmd farewefl celebration 
For more information: 239-5293 
Sponsored by 


Center for Social Concerns ~ t--;f ..Jil ~ ...._6.1r 11-t&,~~ in coflahoration witlr F.mmaus, a Community with the Mental~v Handicapped. 
Islamic group claims they bombed Israeli Embassy 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP) -An Islamic fundamen­talist group claimed responsi­bility Wednesday for the Israeli Embassy bombing that killed at least 20 people, injured more than 250 and reduced the building to chunks of concrete and twisted metal. 
Among the dead were at least 11 Israelis, ' said a spokeswo~an for a Jewish group. ­
The death toll also seemed likely to rise. Rescuers -who worked slowly all night with picks and shovels eventually switched to cranes and front­end loaders as the possibility of fmding survivors faded. 
An embassy spokeswoman said five Israelis, and possibly other victims, were missing and believed dead in the rubble. 
The latest death toll, given by Supreme Court attorney Alfredo Bisordi, was unofficial and did not include names. The Supreme Court is leading the investigation into the incident. 
Earlier, the Interior Ministry said 11 people died and 252 were injured. A body was found in the rubble shortly after the ministry statement, raising the death toll to 12. 
Tuesday's explosion at the French-style embassy near the city's central business district was caused by a car bomb con­taining 220 pounds of explo­sives, said Interior Minister Jose Luis Manzano. 
The blast instantly collapsed the four-story structure into a pile of concrete, metal pipes, wood beams, brick dust, broken glass and bodies. Heavily damaged buildings nearby may have to be knocked down rather than repaired. 
In Beirut, the pro-Iranian Shiite Muslim group Islamic Ji­had said an Argentine convert to Islam carried out the attack to avenge the Feb. 16 killing of a Shiite leader and his family in an Israeli air attack in Le­banon. 
It identified the man as Abu Vasser, and said he died in the attack. 
"We hereby declare with all pride that the operation ... is one of our continuous strikes against the criminal Israeli en­emy in an open-ended war which will not cease until Israel is wiped out of existence," a communique said. 
There was no way to prove the claim's authenticity. But the phraseology and the Koranic verses it contained were the same as those used in previous communiques from the group. 
Islamic Jihad gained notoriety in 1983 after suicide bombings against Western targets including the U.S. Embassy and -bases of American and French peacekeeping troops. 
It is a protege of Hezbollah, the pro-Iranian Shiite umbrella group. In Israel, Reuven Hazak, a former top official of the Shin Bet internal security, said the use of a car bomb had the "fingerprints of Hezbollah or some similar group." 
Terrorism expert Ariel Merari said the use of a massive amount of explosives and the timing, following the Shiite leader's assassination, both pointed to Lebanese Shiites. 
Antimissile site chosen in N. Dakota 
WASHINGTON (AP} -If an antimissile system is meant to protect the U.S. population, why put it in one of the nation's most remote areas? 
The initial system the Defense Department is developing as a shield against long-range bal­listic missile attack is scheduled to be located about 100 miles north of Grand Forks, N.D., near the isolated village of Nekoma, population 61. 
The Pentagon chose that site because Congress, in agreeing last year for the first time to actually build the system, said that it must comply with the 1972 Antiballistic Missile 
-

Treaty between the United States and the former Soviet Union. 
The ABM Treaty stipulates that each country may have only one antimissile site. The Soviets chose Moscow in order to protect their capital. The United States chose Grand Forks and actually built an an­timissile system there in 1975 to protect the nearby fields of Minuteman intercontinental ballistic missiles. 
That first system, called Safeguard, was canceled shortly after it became opera­tional, and the site has been largely abandoned ever since. 
A 



MEMORIAL MASS 
in honor of 
Colleen Hipp 
will be celebrated at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 
Friday, March 20 at 5:00 p.m. 
Fr. Edward A Malloy, C.S.C., presider Fr. Terry Coonan, C.S.C., homilist 
all are most welcome to attend 


r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
~ 
page 6 The Observer Thursday, March 19, 1992 
Democratic hopefuls regroup, head back to Northeast 
IIAHTFOHD. Conn. (AP) ­The Democratic presidential race shifted to the Northeast on Wednesday as former Mas­sachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas looked for a border-state boost to ward off a knock-out punch from Bill Clinton. 
Clinton and Tsongas both headed home after Tuesday's voting in Michigan and Illinois for a quick respite and to map strategy for upcoming pri­maries. Connecticut, which votes on Tuesday, loomed as the immediate battleground, with N11w York following two weeks later. 
"The realities are we have to start winning," conceded Tsongas. who placed second in Illinois and third in Michigan. lie paid a quick visit to unem­ployed workers in I lartford be­fore flying home to Mas­sachusetts to confer with fund­raising advisers. 
"Connecticut is a place where you recover, win and go on to New York and show you can win a big state," Tsongas said. 
Clinton, who rolled up the blue-collar vote in Tuesday's victories, spent the day at home in Little Rock to rest and re­group. He planned to play to win in Connecticut, which has been battered by the recession and defense cuts. 
Jerry Brown, hoping to build on his strong second-place fin­ish in Michigan, turned his l'n-
Candidates line up for Congressional races 
WASHINGTON (AP) Buoyed by public discontent with Congress and openings created by retirements and re­districting. candidates for the House and Senate are running and raising money at the fastest pace in at least ·a decade. 
Many challengers believe 1992 is the year to crack the 95 percent or better re­eleetion rate of incumbents. Already, six senior members from Illinois and Maryland have fallen in early primaries. 
"Sometimes the ice breaks up, and I think that this is one of those years," said Roger Faulkner, a research scientist challenging Sen. Hobert Kasten in Wisconsin's Hepublican primary. 

"I can't break the ice myself, but I can be at the right place to get into the river when the ice breaks," Faulkner said. 
Through March 1, 582 non­incumbents had filed to run for the House and Senate, nearly double the 306 who had filed at this point in 1990 and well ahead of the 382 that had filed by March 1, 1982, the previous high for the last decade. 
And whil11 their campaign 

coffers still are dwarfed by the $115 million raised last year by incumbents, challengers and candidates for open seats are raising money at a much faster clip than in previous years. according to Federal Election Commission figures. 
Non-incumbents in 199:i~ congressional races, raised more than $44 million through the end of last year, well abovH the $18.6 million raised by non-incumbents at the same point in the 1990 election -­the high for the previous decade. 
Public opinion of Congress has dipped to an all-time low in the wake of reports about the House rubber-check scandal. overdue restaurant bills and allegations of theft and drug sales at the House· post office, polls show. 
A recent Washington Post· ABC News survey put the public approval rating for Congress at just 22 percent. 

While anti-incumbent senti· ment pervaded the 1990 cam· paign as well, 96 percent of incumbents managed to win re-election. 
ergies to Wisconsin, which holds its primary April 7, the same day as New York. He in­sisted the Democratic race was far from over. 
"While the numbers are very impressive for Clinton, he has got to win New York and Cali­fornia and Indiana and the ma­jo_r states that determine whether or not he can run a good race against Bush," he said. 
Democratic Chairman Ronald Brown agreed, saying, "You've still got over half the delegates to be chosen, it's too early to declare a de facto nominee. On the other hand, any objective observer has to conclude that Bill Clinton has taken a giant step toward the nomination." 
Tsongas, facing potential money problems, said his con­cern was "do you have the re­sources to get the message out." He said he wouldn't be hamstrung by limited resources in Connecticut because it's a geographically small state whose voters already know him. 
Tsongas sidestepped ques­tions about whether a Con­necticut defeat would drive him from the race, saying only that, "I want to be heard in Califor­nia," which votes June 2. 
On the Hepublican side, chal­lenger Patrick Buchanan admit­ted it appeared that "only ce­lestial intervention" could stop President Bush from getting the GOP nomination. But he vowed to keep his campaign alive "because we think we are win­ning the national debate." 
Bush and Clinton had com­manding leads in the latest As­sociated Press delegate count. The president was within 400 of what he needs; Clinton had 44 percent of what it takes to capture the Democratic nomi­nation. 
With Tuesday's results, Bush's total is 711, while Buchanan has 46. Clinton's total has climbed to 947.25, while Tsongas had 430.25 and Brown 129.25. 
Dems worry about Clinton's past 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Even as Bill Clinton pulls ahead of the Democratic presidential field, an Associated Press sur­vey indicates nagging unease among some state party offi­cials that there may be another "shoe to fall" regarding the Arkansas governor. 
"The fact the Hepublicans are so quiet about Clinton probably means they have something they're waiting to use," said John Bird of Kansas. "That's what worries me." 
Paul Tsongas, ·one of Clinton's remaining rivals, disavowed Wednesday an aide's statement that he would stay in the race anticipating that some new controversy may yet throw Clinton for a loop. 
"Whoever said that speaks for himself or herself, not for me," said Tsongas. 
Interviews with 30 Demo­cratic party chairmen in all re­gions of the country found widespread acceptance that Clinton is close to clinching the presidential nomination. "It would be very hard to stop him," said Illinois Democratic chairman Gary LaPaille. Victo­ries in Illinois and Michigan on Tuesday provided Clinton a major boost. 
Many state leaders said they are nervous following a period of the campaign in which Clin­ton nearly stalled out due to a variety of controversies. Others felt the toughest issues have al­ready been aired and that Clin­ton was stronger for having faced the adversity. 
"He's been looked at pretty carefully," Grady Stumbo of Kentucky said of Clinton. "They've taken their best shot and he's survived. I think Bill Clinton has proved that he's a winner and can take criticism." 
"There is not as much doubt as there is fear," said John Hoehrick, chairman of the Iowa Democratic Party. He cited a "lingering apprehension as to whether there's another shoe to fall." 
"There's always a possibility," said Gene Bushmann, Missouri chairman. "But, who knows," he added "maybe there's dirt on Bush, for heaven's sake." 
It's at the state party level that the tremors are felt most acutely by officials concerned about the impaet the presiden­tial contest will have on other races. 
"Everyone's created an ex­pectation that there's more," said Todd Otis, chairman of Minnesota's Democratic­Farmer-Labor Party. "If there is, it concerns me. But I don't have any reason to believe there is." 
The Arkansas govnrnor pulled ahead of the finld despite whispers and allegations about his sex life, his avoidance of the Vietnam-nra draft and financial dealings involving Clinton or his wife. 
In recent days, former Cali­fornia Gov. Jerry Brown went on the offensive, accusing Clin­ton of "funneling money to his wife's law firm for state busi­ness." Clinton and his wife. Hillary, heatedly denied the charge. 
Brown has portrayed Clinton as vulnerable to Republican at­tacks in the fall, insisting, "This business of a scandal a week is not good for the Democratic Party," he said. 


THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON lAW AND GOVERNMENT PRESENTS STEPHEN CARTER CROMWEll PROFESSOR OF lAW YALE UNIVERSITY AND AUTHOR OF REFLECTIONS OF AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BABY ON "GOD, TRUTH. AND OATHS" MONDAY. MARCH 23 12:00 NOON ROOM 220 -lAW SCHOOL COURTROOM  

U.S. has contingency plans to bomb Iraq 
~ -~ 
-~-~----~--~-­
Thursday, March 19, 1992 The Observer page 7 

No one's mother has to tell him to empty this trash, since modern technology has found a way to empty this dumpster behind the post office without human contact. 
In Yemen, Saddam remains a hero 
SAN'A, Yemen (AP) -While many nations press for tougher sanctions against Iraq, Saddam Hussein remains a hero in this desert nation at the southwest­ern tip of the Arabian Penin­sula. 
Posters of Saddam are ev­erywhere -plastered on cars, army checkpoints and corner shops with names like "Mother of All Battles" photo studio. Saddam is a popular name for newborns. 
At the United Nations, Iraq is under strong pressure to com­ply with resolutions requiring destruction of its unconven­tional weapons. 
Yemenis don't put much stock in the U.N. resolutions, which were the terms of the cease-fire that ended the Persian Gulf war after Iraq was driven from Kuwait last year. 
"Aren't all decisions from the Security Council the same?," complained Sheik Hussein Fayid Mujallah, a northern tribal leader. 
"Why don't they enforce the decisions against Israel like those against Iraq? Why does Iraq have to destroy its weapons but not Israel?" 
Yemen, where the fabled Queen of Sheba ruled in the lOth century B.C., stood behind Saddam as much because of its longstanding enmity toward neighboring Saudi Arabia as its old links with Iraq and fervent support for Saddam's brand of Arab nationalism. 
It has paid a high price for such sentiments. 
Since Saddam's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait, it has lost an estimated $1 billion a year in aid from the Persian Gulf states, which also sent 1 million Yemeni guest workers packing. 
Seniors: Did you meet that spe,.:ial someone over break? 
LAST CHANCE SENIOR FORMAL TICKET SAI~ES 
Wednesday 3/18 Theodore's 6 -9 p.m. Thursday 3/19 Theodore's 5 -7 p.m. 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration has drawn up plans for a bombing strike that could be carried out against Iraqi weapons facilities if Saddam Hussein keeps blocking U.N. destruction of his arsenals, U.S. officials say. 
The plans also call for possi­ble seizure of Iraq's bank assets in the United States and in other allied countries, expan­sion of the ban on Iraqi heli­copter flights in northern Iraq, and an increase of U.N. inspec­tions in Iraq to include moni­toring human rights violations. 
Money from_ the seized assets could be used to keep the finan­cially pressed U.N. inspection and destruction team going. 
The contingency plans are part of a broader strategy ­likely to be announced within weeks -to further erode the Iraqi president's standing in his beleaguered country, said the officials. They commented only on condition of anonymity. 
A decision to bomb would de­pend in part on the outcome of a trip by a U.N. team to Iraq this Saturday to destroy equipment for building Scud missiles. Iraq prevented the team from carrying out its mis­sion last month, prompting the Security Council to warn that further defiance would result in serious consequences. 
"This next inspection could be the trigger," said one official. 
By agreement with U.N. al­lies, any U.S. action "would be a limited, specific strike," said another official who is familiar with the administration's thinking. Iraq would be given notice of the raid to avoid harm to civilians, he added. 
The United States maintains bomber forces in the Persian Gulf region, both on land and on the USS America aircraft carrier currently in Gulf wa­ters. 
But Assistant Secretary of State Edward Djerejian, asked Tuesday during a congressional hearing about policy on Iraq, appeared to rule out any im­mediate attack. 
First, he said that, given Sad­dam's "cheat and retreat strat­egy, the time has come to truly reinforce the (U.N.) inspection regime inside Iraq." 
But when Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., said he understood that no military action was under active consideration, Djerejian answered, "That is basically a correct statement." Still, he added that "nothing was ruled out." 
Officials concede that such veiled warnings, including ones made in recent days by Presi­dent Bush, are designed in no small part to keep Saddam off balance. 
Since the Gulf War ended more than a year ago, the United States has made several vague threats of military action but has failed to follow through. This, said the first official, reflected Pentagon nervousness about a new conflict with Iraq. 
But in internal policy deliber­ations, the State Department has been raising increasing doubts about the effectiveness of the existing policy of tough language and international 


HOUSES FOR RENT 1992-93 YEAR 4-8 BEDROOMS FULLY FURNISHED KEGERATORS SECURITY 
SYSTEMS 287-4989 

______________________, 
~--·­

page 8 The Observer Thursday, March 19, 1992 
U2 is in flap about Japan bashing 

LOS ANGELES (AP) -The 
Irish rock band U2 is trying to 
quell a flap arising from a 
newspaper report that the 
words "Bomb Japan Now" 
flashed on TV screens during a 
concert. 

The words actually occur 
separately in a stream of words 
that flash by rapidly, according 
to a text issued through the 
group's Los Angeles public re­
lations firm. 

A portion of the stream 
reads: "Everyone is a racist ex­
cept you bomb whore 
ultimately Japan chaos I want 
ev..erything I want it now gun 
A March 6 concert review in 
The Atlanta Journal-Constitu­

tion said the phrase "Bomb 
Japan Now" showed up in "a 
spree of buzz words flashed at 
near-subliminal speed." 

Music critic Steve Dollar said 
Wednesday he wrote down 
what he had gleaned from the 
presentation but that the pace 
is so fast there's only time to 
pick up certain words. 

"It would be impossible to watch it and then repeat verba­tim what the actual words were in this segment," he said, adding that there are many "loaded words" and it should be expected that people will in­stinctively try to get a message out of them. 
The words are flashed indi­vidually on monitors for a tenth of a second, publicist Paul Wasserman said in a telephone interview from Boston, where the band had a date on its "Zoo TV" concert tour Tuesday night. 
"Nowhere are the words 'Bomb Japan' next to each other," Wasserman said. 
Asked if it weren't possible for viewers to lump words to­gether given the speed with which they are presented and stage distractions, Wasserman said: "No, because there are all these words in between." 
Wasserman said it was "just coincidence" that "bomb" and "Japan" were so close to each other. "They're not for bombing anybody," he said. 
Dollar said that after "bomb" the next word that makes sense is "Japan." However, he said the presentation seems to be some kind of ironic commentary and nothing gives the impression it's meant to be taken seriously. 
Wasserman said that after the review was reported in Ire­land, the Japanese ambassador to Ireland protested to the for­eign ministry. 

The publicist said the band spent weeks working on choos­ing words, but he said "they're just flash words" and do not have a particular meaning. 
Hey Baseball Fans! 

PA announcer needed for otre Dame baseball games If you are interested, please submit a tape to: Bill Scholl ""' Sports Marketing Dept. .ll't' JACC Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Two Virginia churches report 'weeping Mary' 
WOODBRIDGE, Va. (AP) ­Children and adults at a Roman Catholic church reported seeing a statue of the Virgin Mary shed tears after Mass was celebrated by a priest involved in other recent reports of weeping statues. 
Water reportedly trickled Tuesday from the face of a wooden statue that stands in the lobby of Our Lady of Angels Church while the Rev. James Bruse was celebrating Mass for 450 schoolchildren. 
St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Church in nearby Lake Ridge, where Bruse is the associate pastor, reported last week that statues of the Virgin Mary wept there during a Mass on March 
8. 

"I saw the tears from the ch­est, and I saw the tears on her face," 11-year-old Nicole King said of Tuesday's episode. "It was kind of weird. Some of my friends were kind of crying." 
Jennifer Velesz, who has two children at the school, said she saw it too. 
"I was in absolute awe that this was happening right in front of me," she said. 
Bruse and Sister Mary Evelyn, the school's principal, have declined to discuss the incident. 
But the sister sent a note home with each child saying: "After Mass, the adults present as well as the children saw the statue cry." 
The statue has never wept before, said the Rev. Paul Burns, pastor of Our Lady of Angels. 
"It's so unexplainable, and most of us are quite skeptical about these things," Burns said. "This has us quite befuddled in a nice kind of way." 
THURSDAY, APRIL 16 

Joyce A.C.C. 
Tickets available at all Tlcketmaster outlets including L.S.Ayres and the University of Notre Dame l.JA" 
Pre-Law Society Meeting 
Ww@w1? March 23, 7 pm Ww@rl@1? Cushing Auditorium To prepare juniors for the application process to law school 
Dean Waddick, Dean Mclean of the Law School and Pro1fessor Susan Vance of St. Mary's will be speaking 
IMPORTANT MEETING FOR SENIORS-TO-BE 

Business 
Thursday, March 19, 1992 page 9 
Current Economic Issues 
Prof. James Rakowski NO Economics Dept. 


Sacrificing income for national pride 
If American consumers are willing to sacrifice some of their income and pay somewhat more for made-in-the­
U.S.A products, Americans could be put back to work. That sentiment, judging from my reading of the letters­to-the-editors columns, is commonly expressed in the country today. Indeed, it appears that in the automotive sector consumers will soon be given the opportunity to pay more, as Japanese auto companies are reported to be raising their prices partly for political reasons, to give hard-pressed American producers more room to compete and even to charge higher prices themselves. Consumers shopping for a new car may soon find enhanced opportunities to shell out big bucks and put Americans to work. 
Like all charitable undertakings, however, the project of paying more than is necessary for goods of a given quality should be carefully scrutinized to determine how much of the contribution actually makes it to the in­tended beneficiary. Suppose that many car-buying consumers pitch in a bit and an auto worker is restored to his $35,000-a-year job. Is it not reasonable and natural to ask what all those individuals sacrifices add up to, and whether consumers are getting their money's worth out of their contributions? The way economists sometimes put this question is, "What is the cost to consumers of saving (say, bu means of tariff protection) one job in an import-competing industry?" If we save a $35,000-a-year job, but it costs us $50,000 in higher prices paid, maybe it is not such a good idea. Maybe we should buy foreign products and save $50,000. We could donate $35,000 of that to an employment fund, putting the person to work doing something useful, like rebuilding the country's infrastructure. We will have our (imported) products, we will have rebuilt infras­tructure, the person we were concerned about will have a $35,000-a-year job, and we will still have $15,000 to play around with, buying other products which will require people to produce them. 
Economists have asked the above question, "What is the cost of each job saved?" over and over again. And they always seem to find that the consumer cost per job saved is astronomical -for example, $420,000 to save one job in the color TV industry, about $100,000 to save one job in the auto industry. Where does the rest of the money go? Who is skimming this charity? Well some of it goes to the firms in higher profits and some of it goes to the government in tariff revenues; but a good portion of it, if economic theory is to be believed, goes to no one. It disappears into that black hole of inefficiency that economists call "dead-weight loss." 
These estimated figures cannot be taken too seriously because it is exceedingly difficult to tie down all the repercussions of a policy like a tariff in an economy as complex as ours; but, even if inexact, they are powerfully suggestive. They should suggest a healthy skepticism about whether insisting on paying more for our goods is the best way of putting people to work. 
President Bush said that his trip to Japan was about "Jobs, jobs, jobs." But is that a sensible goal of economic policy? Is not the goal of good economics to provide our people with goods and services? It is a disorder when people who wish to be productive are deprived of the opportunity to do so; but productive activity is desirable precisely because of the output it yields. If policies put more people to work at the expense of output, at the expense of consumer satisfaction, in what sense in the work provided by these policies productive? 
Unemployment is a problem in the world's market economies, but it is a problem which ultimately has nothing to do with trade. Suppose that for some reason (I cannot imagine what it would be) foreigners wanted to give us goods and take nothing (except perhaps our money, which would therefore be useless to them) in re­turn. That would be the ultimate in trade deficits; but what problems would it cause? There would still be all sorts of things -goods not available from abroad or not transportable, poetry readings, operas, education, rock concerts, and super bowls -we can produce for ourselves, keeping busy and having a bang-up time in the process. 
We could let patriotism blossom and show the Japanese that we are not going to be pushed around, that we're proud to be American, and that we will buy American, thank you, even if it costs us $100,000 to save a $35,000-a-year job. But that would be an odd thing to do. Why pour money down a rathole in the name of patriotism? Some Japanese would probably think that, besides being lazy and illiterate, we are not too bright. 
Reserve reports growing optimism 
WASHINGTON (AP) -After months of surveying the nation and finding little good economic news, the Federal Reserve reported Wednesday that business sentiment is now "modestly more optimistic." 
The Federal Reserve cited a number of hopeful signs, such as rising home sales, increased retail demand and even glimmers of a turnaround in manufacturing. 
However, both the central bank and the Bush administration stressed that the scattered signs of a strengthening economy should be viewed cautiously. 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said pointedly that similar hopes a year ago proved ill­founded because of restrictive Federal Reserve policies. 
The Federal Reserve latest survey of business conditions, conducted by its 12 regional banks early this month, found strength in autos, housing construction and retail sales but cautioned that there were still numerous pockets of weakness. 
The Chicago Federal Reserve Bank noted a "slow but in­creasingly widespread advance in the economy since the end of January" while St. Louis reported that most segments of the economy were growing. 
The new survey, based on in­terviews before March 9, said manufacturing remained weak, with New York, Minneapolis and San Francisco still reporting layoffs. 
On the negative side, the Federal Reserve characterized con­struction activity for such commercial projects as offices and shopping centers as "moribund." While residential mortgage lending was cited as a bright spot, the survey found little increase in bank loan demand in other areas. 
But even in the hard-hit man­ufacturing sector, the survey said that "several districts report glimmerings of recovery in manufacturing, with improving expectations for future activity." The survey said Philadelphia, Richmond and Dallas reported modest gains in factory production or shipments. 
"Business sentiment is described as modestly more optimistic in many parts of the country, though it remains cautious," the central bank said in summarizing the latest findings of the review, which it conducts eight times a year. 
The assessment was the Federal Reserve's most optimistic on the economy since last year's recovery faltered. 
In a review released Jan. 23, the Federal Reserve had described the economy as "lackluster" with factory output declining and retailers disappointed with Christmas sales. 
The Federal Reserve's latest "Current Economic Conditions" report will be used when top Federal Reserve policymakers meet on March 31 to review in­
terest rates. 

Many economists believe the Federal Reserve's assessment along with recent reports of economic strengthening mean that the central bank will not cut interest rates further. 
"The Federal Reserve is cau­tiously more upbeat," said David Wyss, an economist at DRI­McGraw Hill, an economics forecasting firm in Lexington, Mass. "They are looking at the same things we are looking at in the economy. We think we have turned the corner and the recovery is beginning, but it is not a sure thing yet." 
Wyss said he believes interest rates are likely to remain about where they are, although mort­gage rates, now at a nationwide average of 8.88 percent for fixed­rate loans, may rise slightly because of higher demand in the spring. 
He said the most likely scenario is that the Federal Reserve will do nothing over the next six months and then could begin some modest steps to push interest rates higher as a hedge against inflation. 
Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater noted "encouraging signs" in recent days but said "there's still much concern about the economy." 
Brady, appearing before a congressional committee, said he was "hammering" on banks to increase lending as a way of ending the so-called credit crunch. 
Senate upholds veto on China's trade status 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate on Wednesday upheld President Bush's veto of a bill that would have imposed human rights and other conditions on renewal of China's normal trade status. 
The 60 to 38 vote fell six votes short of the two-thirds needed to override the veto and extended the president's unbroken streak on veto confrontations to 26. 
The House had voted 357-61last week to override the veto. 
Failure to override means China's most-favored-nation trade status, which confers the lowest available tariffs on its imports, will almost certainly be renewed when it expires in July. 
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell accused Bush of blindly adhering to a policy of engagement with Beijing from the days when the United States used China as a counterbalance to the other communist superpower, the Soviet Union. 
"The threats that face the world today do not emanate from a strong Soviet Union," Mitchell, D­Maine, said. "Instead they can be traced in part to the actions of regimes like China," which sells weaponry to unstable countries and has a trade surplus with the United States topped only by Japan. 
Congress has pushed for changes in China's trade status since the Beijing government in 1989 used the military to attack pro-democracy demonstrators. 
"In the face of widespread support for the democracy movement in China, the president supports those who crushed democracy," Mitchell said. 
But Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said punishing China would not achieve the intended effect of releasing political prisoners or helping trade. 
"It will hit home in every wallet and pocketbook in this country," Dole said. "We import billions of dollars of low-cost, good quality products from China which we simply can't get anywhere else at anywhere near the price." 

The compromise bill would have required "substantial progress" by China in the areas of human rights, trade and weapons proliferation before normal trade status could be renewed. 
The Senate had originally ap­proved the measure Feb. 25 on a vote of 59-39. That vote rep­resented the biggest opposition to date to Bush's China policy, which has been highly unpopular on Capitol Hill. 
After a vigorous fight last year, the issue of U.S. policy toward China had lain dormant for months until it was revived by congressional Democrats. The action was seen at least in part as an election-year effort to embarrass Bush by drawing attention to what lawmakers view as a policy that puts economic considerations ahead of human rights. 
Administration opponents cited China's $12.7 billion trade surplus with the United States last year. And they pointed to continued human rights violations documented in the State Department's annual report, including arbitrary arrests and the use of slave labor. 
In addition, the matter was driven by intelligence reports that despite earlier Chinese assurances on curtailing overseas weapons sales, missiles and other items continue to flow to such volatile areas as Syria, Libya, Iran, Iraq and Pakistan. 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, March 19, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager •.••....Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ....••.••.••..•...Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .•.......•... Michael Scrudato Production Manager .•.••....Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .••••.•.....Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor..••••..... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ....••...••.•...•.•.• Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Conlroller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS: 
THE ONLY G. ROUP 
,­
""~"\.,• S•"'t.rt'\lilf 
--2.._ 
_,) J'jf' 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
U.S. and Europe share uncivilized
Dear Editor: available as possible as a min­Given the plethora of articles, ister. Celibacy enables me to 
abortion laws

letters, and editorials by several minister to others in a unique students in recent months about manner. By foregoing marriage Fr. Burtchaell, CSC, and the and exclusive relationships, I 
Dear Editor: 

The Observer recently printed general, I thought it would be the church. This vocation 
Congregation of Holy Cross in believe I can best serve God and the world'" abortion laws. The United States and most
appropriate to simply add a few even disappointed at others. Yet entire congregation. More stands alongside marriage and European countries allow an
thoughts of my own on these just as we accept Christ's cross, specifically, it is the vow of the single life as means to min­abortion upon request while
matters. we must acknowledge his celibacy, and the congregation's istry in the Lord. The gift of Holy Cross is celebrating its forgiveness and resurrection. ability (or inability) to live this celibacy isn't attractive to all, of most African nations only permit an abortion if the
150th anniversary of service to We are a people of hope. out authentically, that has been course, but it is one which I mother's life is at risk.
God and God's church in the Earlier this year, charges of questioned. embrace wholeheartedly. world. Our founder, Fr. Basil impropriety were revealed By our public profession of It is true, we have stumbled in European countries and the United States are supposed to
Moreau, formed a group of about one of our brothers, Fr. the vows of poverty, celibacy, our mission from time to time. be the more civilized countries
priests, brothers and sisters Burtchaell. Understandably, this and obedience, we invite such But knowing that God's plan of under a common mission: ser­has evoked feelings of pain, scrutiny. But, when unfounded salvation has found victory in of the world, yet they allow the 
slaughter of millions of inno­
vice to Christ by spreading his anger, and confusion from stories are applied to an entire Jesus Christ, I have confidence gospel. Over the years, Holy many of us who know Holy group, some sort of account­in the Church, and in the con­cent lives. Which nations arc the more civilized'?
Cross has been blessed with Cross and Jim personally. We, ability is called for. gregation as well. May God growth and success in this mis­too, grieve the situation and I joined Holy Cross and pro­continue to bless us in the years 
Robert Payne
sion. pray for God's healing touch. fessed these vows because I to come. 
Pangborn Hall
Also, the congregation, being In recent months, however, want to work with and relate to, Bill Wack, esc March 2, 1992
made up of sinful human be­some have taken this opportu­the people of God in a manner Moreau Seminary ings, has failed at times, and nity to attack the nature of the that allows me to be as March 16, 1992 
Guest speaker relates the 'rnessage of life' to Notre Dame campus 
Dear Editor: When counselors strongly ad­genocide problem, Or. Grier in abortion do not want to de­She then dared anyone to try to 
On Thursday, March 5, Dr. vise poor black women to have advanced some compelling ar­clare that they believe in killing. kill the twins she presented, as Dolores Grier, Vice-chancellor an abortion, they imply that guments for life. She asked how Dr. Grier called for everyone to a doctor would have been able for Community Affairs of the black women are not capable of America can hold respect for "say what you arc." to do with abortion. A response Archdiocese of New York gave a surviving nine months of preg­life anywhere if we do not re­Perhaps the most effective ex­came from a mcm her or the talk on campus entitled "Race nancy, when in fact, as Dr. Grier spect it in the womb. She ques­ample of the ev<~ning came from audience: "Of course not, Genocide and Abortion." The noted, black women have tioned why America stands for a member of the audience, a they're alive." Precisely. purpose of Dr. Grier's presen­survived much more. liberty, but the unborn arc de­social worker from Chicago who One of Dr. Grier's questions tation was to bring to Notre A true respect for life de­nied the liberty of birth. And declared that the women she came back to me: Why is it ille­Dame what she brings to the mands that other options be while she agreed that America works with "need alternatives" gal to stop the heartbeat or a streets of llarlem in her every­made available for these stands for choice, she denied to abortion and that if given baby born four months prema­day work: a message of life. women, and Dr. Grier's job is to that those who promote abor­options, people will take them. turely, but legal to terminate 
Dr. Grier bravely takes the provide other options, such as tion support choice. She presented as evidence an the life of a nine month old un­stand that legalized abortion is space in a girls' home until the adorable set or twins whom she born child? The answer: We do 
leading to the genocide of the baby is born and can be put up Those who support the abor­had adopted after convincing not yet fully respect life. We minority races. As she elabo­for adoption if the mother tion law support abortion, not their biological mother not to must learn to respect life in all rated, the majority of abortion decides not to keep her baby. choice, since it was abortion undergo an abortion. its forms. clinics are placed in poor black Dr. Grier spoke of being able to which was legalized, and not Now a single mother of three 
or Hispanic neighborhoods for "resolve problems with life choice. The "pro-choice" adopted children, this woman Mary Ann Tebben the reason that abortion is dic­when you believe in life." moniker is in place, Dr. Grier says that her children have Pasquerilla West tated for women on welfare. But even bevond the race said, because those who believe changed her life for the better. March 16, 1992 

--~-~----~~---l 
Viewpoint
Thursday, March 19, 1992 Page 11 
~ 
j
'Georgie Boy's' time is gonna come in '92 election j 
the economy was artificially sions and hurling into the lap of pampering the rich and party­supported on the hot air of their Prime Minister (thereby ing on our children's tab for too
Editor's note: This is part two of 
leveraged buyouts and ErikHuey surely violating one of the most long now, and the nation is fed
a two part column: 
junkbond deals. When the bot­basic tenants of diplomatic eti­up. The only lasting truth from
Ideological posturing Guest Columnist 
tom fell out of these quette). And, of course, the the Reagan years has finally
notwithstanding, November's 
"industries," however, the "Read My Lips President" lied to come to light: the Elephant haselection will be driven by the move was viewed as a case of
economy went with it. In other the American public and raised no clothes.
economy. And the economy will too little, too late.
words, our economy, like the taxes smack in the middle of a Yes George, this year's tour ofbe George Bush's undoing. 
Worse than the President's
president himself, is fast be­recession. the Electoral College will be aLike the forty percent of New delay in dealing with the econ­
coming a fragile shell with no Where the Hell are this guy's whole new ball game. Leading
Hampshire Republicans who 
omy is his refusal to take re­
core to support it. priorities? Where are his con­America into the 21st Centuryopted for a talk show host over sponsibility for its sorry condi­
What Washington needs to do victions'? The sad truth is that will require vision, and youra standing President, the Amer­tion. Instead of admitting that
is declare an economic disaster he doesn't have any. George record demonstrates thatican voter will be looking to the recession is the result of
and then develop a scheme to Bush is an unprincipled political you've got about as much vision send the Mr. Bush a message. 
twelve years of misguided pol­
rebuild the economy, not super­opportunist who changes his as Stevie Wonder in a broomThat message will sound some­icy, Bush simply takes the low
ficially, but from the inside out. stance on issues like he changes closet. The American voter hasthing like: "We're mired in the road and plays the blame game. 
The way to start is to encourage clubs on a fairway. In his 1980 given you four long years to
longest recession since 1929 
He blames Congress. He blames
industrial development by bid for the Hepublican make good on your candy­
and your recipe for recovery the Japanese. And most incred­
rewarding true investment. nomination, he extolled the coated, patriotically correct
consists of going to Sears to buy ibly, he blames the American
President Bush's trumpcard in virtues of Planned Parentho<;>d; campaign promises of 1988,some socks." 
consumer. The time has come
this area is a reduction in the now he's Anti-Choice. and you're way off the mark. 
The recession began a full 
for a leader in the White House,
capital gains tax. During the same campaign he They've forgotten about youryear before Bush admitted to it not a finger pointer. 
This strategy is myopic, self­attacked Honald Heagan's little video game over in Kuwaitand it will be his denial that George Bush does not limit his 
serving and will, in the long "voodoo economics," then be­and now they're crying forvoters will remember most. He 
ineptitude to the economy,
run, prove ineffective. A capital came Mr. Supply Side when his blood. America votes with its
should've taken a page from however. His record on the
gains tax reduction, in the mid­original position became politi­pocketbook and come Novem­former First Lady Betty Ford 
other pressing issues of our
dle of a recession, will encour­cally untenable. More recently, ber, that pocketbook will beand realized that the first step times is equally as wretched.
age savings rather than con­he called for a decrease in in­holding a public referendum on
toward recovery is admitting 
The "Education President" has
sumption or investment, and terest rates on credit cards, you and your back-scratching,there's a problem. Instead, the helped cut federal funding to
that's the last thing our sluggish then flip-flopped when the stock pudding club brand of status
Bush Administration ignored 
local school districts in half
economy needs. market took a plunge. After quo conservatism. You will beevery leading economic indica­(from 11 percent in 1980 to 5.5 
vetoing extended benefits for held accountable for your me­tor and did absolutely nothing 
percent in 1991) while can­
Over two-thirds of the benefits the unemployed, the Great diocrity, and will pa_v dearly forto remedy the economy. 
celling Head Start programs.
irom a capital gains tax de­Waffler extended them on na­your sins in the ballot boxes ofThey felt that this was only a 
crease would go to the wealthi­tional TV during the State of the this Great Land. 
cyclical aberration and market In his four years in office, he
est one percent of Americans. Union, as if the idea were hisforces would soon correct the 
has not spearheaded a single
The Administration's reply is own. Georgie Boy, your days in the
downturn. In actuality, this 
education initiative. Meanwhile,
that we should give tax incen­The time has come, fellow White House are numbered.
alarming display of inaction 
the results of a worldwide math
tives to those who are most ca­Americans, for a change. The Soon, a dark horse Democratonly exacerbated the problem. 
and sciences test administered
pable of "doing something with Grand Old Party' s twelve years with a boatload of compassion
As analyst William Greider 
by the Princeton Testing Service 
the money." However, we can in the Oval Office have left us and a fistful of integrity will rise points out, Bush's errant strat­
in 1991, showed that, of the
no longer continue to reward with a 3.6 trillion dollar debt, up from the ashes like someegy of inaction is reminiscent of thirteen nations tested, Ameri­
the richest members of our so­the highest infant mortality rate border state Phoenix and beatanother one-term Republican 
can children finished last or
ciety without regard to how in the developed world and the you like a redheaded stepchild
president named Herbert­
next to last in every category.
their tax windfalls arc invested. highest poverty level of any on Election Day. A New Age will Hoover-and you 'II recall that The "Environmental President" industrialized nation. They've dawn in America, in which youhe got beat like a cheap dog in tried to shrink the nation's pro­
If a company wants to engage turned back the clock on Civil and your ilk won't play a part.
the 1932 general election by a tected wetlands by 50 percent.
in true investment, like modern­Rights while spitting in the face In January you'll pack up yourprogressive Democrat named 
NASA predicts that a sizable
izing its equipment or expand­of judicial responsibility by tent and wait to take your placeFranklin Delano Hoosevelt. For 
hole in the ozone layer will
ing its research and develop­packing the Supreme and Fed­among the Millard Fillmoresthe country's sake, let's hope 
open up over North America
ment program, and that com­eral courts with cheapjack ide­and Franklin Pierces of Presi­that history will repeat itself sometime this year, yet Bush
mitment is maintained for five alogucs and marginal party dential History. Meanwhile, thatthis November. 
has never even uttered the
years or more, then they should hacks. unqualified yuppie twit you
words "greenhouse effect." 
be entitled to a tax break on picked as a running mate willWhat America needs right now The "Family Values President"
that investment. However, if Biff Additionally, their administra­be shipped back to central In­is a new line of thinking about kowtowed to big business and
and Muffy want to unload the tions have taken high-level cor­diana, where he'll be forced to our domestic economy. We need 
vetoed the bipartisan Family
family yacht while dodging ruption to new heights. Com­find employment more in line
a new New Deal which will Leave Bill, which would
taxes on the profits, tough luck. bined, they've orchestrated a with his vocational abilities onrebuild America's infrastructure 
guarantee American workers
Hoping to capitalize on public slew of scandals that would the wrong end of a late nightand strengthen our capacity to up to six weeks of unpaid sick
sentiment, Bush unveiled the make Nixon blush and Warren nametag, sponging orr a salad­
manufacture goods. Since in event a
leave the of
remainder of his plans for ceo­Harding look like a Boy Scout. bar sneezeguard at the localGeorge Bush took office, the pregnancy or serious ailment. 
nomic recovery during his State Heagan's cabinet alone was the Sizzler. And on that day, and notU.S. has lost 1.2 million 
The "International Presi­
of the Union Message to target of more probes and in­before, We as a Nation, canmanufacturing jobs. 
dent's" prowess in foreign af­
Congress a few weeks back. As dictments than the Gotti Family. finally get a good night's sleep. 
When manufacturing jobs go, fairs has been reduced to beg­
the vote in New Hampshire Republican presidents have Erik 1/uey is a third year Law 
so does America's economic ging Japan for trade conces­
showed, this cynical political been gutting the middle class, student from Morgantown, WV.
base. Throughout the Eighties, 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Labor and Civil Rights movements to dictate a New Age revolution 
Dear Editor: 
Contrary to Edgar Acosta's letter to The Observer (March 2), whining and complaining have never been the hallmarks of any true left-wing, populist movement. 
In fact, it has been left-wing American radicals like Thomas Jefferson, Eugene Debs, Martin Luther King, and Bobby Seale that have risked everything, in­cluding the abuse of those so pleasantly content with their present position in the status quo, and have worked diligently in trying to redress the injus­tices foisted on the American majority by an exploitive and antedeluvian economic system. 
Industrial and inner-city workers and those farmers not yet pushed out by multination­als don't passively lament their condition. Indeed, they look to the leadership and powerful organizing capabilities of unions and civil; through which they can initiate much-needed change. 
One look at the troubles of the working class, the inner city, and Rust Belt reveal a capitalist system gone wild. Unfortunately, it is only now, during a truly national reces­sion in which even the upper middle classes' Gucci wallets are pinched, that the grievances of the aforementioned groups come to light. 
Admittedly, I unlike Mr. Acosta have not experienced the L.A. environs; however, as a resident of Jersey City, I feel emotionally qualified to denounce his perscribed "good old fashioned spanking" for its inhabitants. I doubt if this would go a long way in improving the crumbling inner-city schools that reveal the inner-city's identity as an almost inescapable prison nor will it foster any semblance of the human dignity sadly replaced only by drugs and gangs. 
It is then the goal of a left­wing movement to nurture a greater and broader working­man's consciousness and at­tempt to amend the social, eco­nomic, ecological, and moral problems left behind by the right-wing. 
The conservative ideology espoused by Mr. Acosta has had close to a decade and a half to supposedly improve the nation; instead, it has done little more than devastate the en­vironment, chain Third World nations in Africa, East Asia, and South America to the yoke of underdevelopment, and create a state of wage-slavery for much of working-class America (black and white alike). 
A very real conspiracy, con­scious or inherent in the sys­tem, has been engaged by the elitist few. In our gilded age (1980-1988), Reagan was able to polarize America, all the while spouting "grass-roots" rhetoric. An economic caste system was achieved, as re­vealed by the fact that the top 1 percent had a tax rate decrease of 8 percent, while the lowest decile had a 2.5 percent in­crease. 
All this happened at a time when the lowest decile's aver­age family income fell -14.8 percent, and the top 1 percent rose a frightening 49.8 percent during the same time-frame (See K. Phillip, Politics of Rich and Poor, pp 17 -83). 
Far from "spineless," the left­wing movement of the 1990's will not be led by the pop-up, opportunistic, limousine liberals as presently offered by the Democratic party; rather it will evolve, as history (1890's & 1920's) and common sense dictate, from a labor and civil rights movement. For a new left-wing movement to succeed, it must learn from past social movements that were split by factionalism, regionalism, and, most of all, racism. 
Only in a solidarity of broth­erhood (a radical concept espoused by the likes of Jesus, Christ and Mohammed) and a strong recollection of the fer­vors and concepts of freedom, human dignity, and equal op­portunity as found in the American Hevolution, can such a movement succeed against the entrenched few: people power vs. pecuniary power. Let history condemn the Hepublican rhetoric of the 1980's and early 1990's to hell. Our time has come. 
James Grogan Stanford Hall March 2, 1992 


Accent 
Thursday, March 19, 1992
page 12 


Father Henri Nouwen shares special message of L'Arche community 
By HELEN DIETEMAN 
Accent Writer 

Have you ever felt God's love'? 
Henri Nouwen, a former Notre Dame professor and now priest-in­residence of L'Arche-Daybreak in Toronto, Ontario, will share how he has experienced this love on Thursday, March 19 at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
His presentation, titled "God's Love Experienced in Community," is open to all, especially those who work or live with the developmentally disabled and those who are searching for a deeper understanding of God's love. 
With Nouwen will be several L'Arche residents and assistants from their respective communities at Daybreak (Toronto), Mobile (Alabama), Heartland (Kansas City), and Arch (Clinton, Iowa), as well as representatives from Emmaus, a South Bend community with the mentally handicapped. 
Nouwen and his guests can look forward to a busy and eventful weekend, beginning with Nouwen's and others' presentations on Thursday evening. Friday's plan includes a tour of campus, lunch hosted by Keenan Hall, and a tour of the Logan Center. 
Friday evening, there will be a worship service titled "A Celebration of the Variety ol' our Gifts" at 7:30 
p.m. The gathering will be open to all and will be at Epworth Memorial United Methodist Church. It will be followed by a reception. On Saturday afternoon, there will be a reflection and prayer titled "Listening to God's Call in a Noisy World: Discipleship and the Spiritual Life" from 2 to 5 p.m. at the esc. 
This weekend at Notre Dame is Nouwen's second trip here since he has been at Daybreak; he visited Notre Dame in 1989 for a similar weekend. He has been invited to return by the Emmaus community and the esc. 
As Sandy Barton, administrative assistant at the esc, explains, "Father Nouwen is an inspiration to all people, handicapped and volunteers. His words are ecumenical; he speaks to everyone who is concerned about the quality of life for the developmentally disabled, regardless of religion." 
L'Arche, French for "the ark", began in France in 1964 when Jean Vanier invited two handicapped men to share his home. In 1969, Daybreak was founded. Now, ties, but by love. L'Arche is not meant to separate or to isolate indi­viduals who arc handicapped; rather, by giving them true homes and allowing them to live with human dignity, L' Arc he brings people into the world. 
Karen Hund, S.S.J., a former assistant for ten years at L' Arche­Eric, Pennsylvania, the first L'Archc home in the United States. She feels that the handicapped residents definitely teach the non­handicapped assistants. "They teach by their simplicity, their joy. They challenge you to look beyond the physical appearances and to sec the beauty underneath." 
Sisiter Karen also believes that, "L'Archc tries to be small communities that witness God's Jove to the world, that it is possible to live the Beatitudes, llis <:all to live in love." 
Born in Nijerk, llolland, Nouwcn was ordained for the Archdiocese of Utrecht in 1957. At that time, he began his search to serve God truly. He taught at Notre Dame (1965), Yale (1971-1974), and Harvard (1983-1985), and also spent time in various Latin American countries in 1981 and 1982. 
In 1985, Nouwen spent nine months with Jean Vanier, at his L'Archc home in France, where Nouwen immediately felt at home. He returned to North America in 1986 and settled in at L'Archc­Daybreak in Toronto, the first of thirty-eight such communities to be established in North America. 
Nouwen has written several books, largely autobiographical, including "The Genesee Diary," an account of the time he spent at the Abbey of the Genesee in Piffard, NY, in 1974 and 1978. lie has also written "The Wounded Healer," "Clowning in Home," and ";Gracias!". 
Nazz closes out Sesquicentennial Week 


·-­
-
By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Accent Editor 

Pennies will be in demand this weekend as students can use them to vote for the campus band of their choice at Nazz, a battle of the bands concluding the Student Sesquicentennial Week this Saturday. 
Nazz, sponsored by Student Government in ac­cordance with Notre Dame's Sesquicentennial, is being held at Stepan Center from 6 
p.m. to midnight on 
Saturday. Twenty-four campus bands will perform 15-minutc sets as they strive to become the best in the battle of the bands. 
To ensure continuous musical play, two separate stages will be set up, ac­cording to Katie Pamenter, chairman of the Sesquicentennial Student Week committee. 
"It's a student-ori,ented week and music is a big part of our lives," Pamenter said. "There's a lot of musical talent on campus." 
Taylor Richards, a deejay from WNDU, will emcee the event. 
As the different bands perform, the audience will play an active role in de­termining the winner of the "battle." In addition to judges Hichards, Thomas Morris, philosophy professor, and Kevin Flaherty, WVFI station manager, students will act as judges, casting their vote with pennies. 
The winner of Nazz will be chosen by various factors such as talent, costume, and music selection, according to Sarah Williams, co-chairman of the Nazz committee. Each judge will have one vote and the audience "penny" vote will serve as a single vote. "Students play a large part in Nazz," explained Pamenter. 
The band chosen by the judges and audience will perform as the opening band for this year's AnTostal band, which has not yet been selected. 
Different kinds of music will be represented at Nazz, including rock, country, Irish music and rap. "There's a lot 
of diversity this year," Pamentcr said. 
Cam pus bands scheduled to perform include The Generics, XYZ Affair, Palace Laundry, Victoria's Heal Secret and Katharsis. 
"It's great exposure. It's a chance to play in a different environment than a bar or a dance," explained Dave Geist, guitarist for The Generics. 
"It's free exposure and a good opportunity to display our talents," agreed Kevin Bailie, a member of Palace Laundry. 
Thursday, March 19, 1992 
Carideo, Rockne era star, dead 
OCEAN SPRINGS, Miss. (AP) -Frank F. Carideo, who earned a berth in the College Football Hall of Fame by lead­ing Knute Rockne's last two Notre Dame teams to unbeaten seasons and national titles, Fame, has died in Ocean Springs. 
Carideo, who was in his 80s, died Tuesday. His family requested that no information be released. 
Carideo, a native of Mount Vernon, N.Y., was named to virtually every AU-American team in 1929 and 1930 in guiding Notre Dame to records of 9-0 and 10-0, respectively. 
An outstanding basketball player as well, Carideo coached Mississippi State's basketball team from 1936 through 1939 and was an assistant with that school's football team from 1935 to 1938. 
He was a former manager of Bankers Life Insurance Co. in Cedar Rapids, Iowa and had lived in Ocean Springs for 17 years. 
Survivors include his wife, Vera Carideo of Ocean Springs; a daughter, Vera "Randy" Carideo of Ocean Springs; and a brother, Angelo Carideo of Clearwater, Fla. 
The Observer page 13 

l
three-pointer from the left to Jalewalia scored all 21 of her spark a 9-2 run that put the points in the final 13:30 of the
Whoops 
l
Bruins back up by 22 points, game and was instrumental in 
continued from page 20 salting away the victory and a putting a charge back into the date with fourth-seed Texas this Bruin attack when Notre Dame Sunday in the second round of made its run. the NCAAs. "Amy ran the floor very well 
Natalie Williams led UCLA tonight," praised Moore. "We with 22 points and 15 rebounds did a great job as well of finding 
After two Marciniak free 
as the Bruins enjoyed a 64-37 her in the open floor." 
throws, the Irish were within 15 advantage on the boards, but it For Notre Dame, Bowen fin­again, 70-55, with just under 
was Jalewalia's play off the ished with 18 points and 12 re­seven minutes left. 
bench in the second half that bounds while Nowlin added 14But DeDe Mosman nailed a 
keyed UCLA. points. 
Can Your Trash. Please don't litter. Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College 
Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
···Losr··  FOR RENT  She sings a song and I listen to  If you have had an abortion or put a  
NOTICES  glasses with metalic frame  "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... 259·7801 OR 255-5852"  KATHARSIS  what it says-If you want a friend, teed any animal  baby up for adoption and are interested in participating in an  
REWARD!  THIS BAND WILL ROCK STEPAN  There's so much space, I cut me a  article for the Observer, call Anna at  
Typing Service · Experienced typist  call Joe at 1208  3 Bedroom  CENTER AT THE BATILE OF  piece with some fine wine,  284-5474. Confidentiality  
·resumes, papers, etc. uses AT&T  Walk to Campus  THE BANDS. WE PLAY LAST IN  It brought peace to my mind in the  guaranteed.  
computer. Epson printer. Call 656·  Found  $555 Month  THE CONTEST AT 11:45 P.M ..  Summertime,  
3158.  mini 35mm camera  232 3616  OUR SONGS WILL BE: THE  And it rolled!  Top Ten from Spring Break  
Was found just before  OCEAN BY LED ZEPPELIN, BEEN  10. I have to use the phone  
TYPING AVAILABLE  CHRISTMAS break.  For Rent  CAUGHT STEALIN' FROM  Matt from 54585 Irish Way is DUDE  9. I am so sad!  
287·4082.  call Joe 1208  5Br. 2 bth house  JANE'S ADDICTION, UNDER THE  WHO SMELLS GOOD.  8. I can't accept this I.D.  
tor next semester  BRIDGE BY RED HOT CHILl  7. I just want to go home.  
Typing  LOST: Navy blue ID CASE at  newly remodeled, 1 mile  PEPPERS AND DREAM ON BY  Schwing!!  6. I have to use the bathroom.  
Pickup & Delivery  Lafayette Square on 3/17. Many  from campus. Right behind Lat.  AEROSMITH. WITNESS THE  5. five guys-one big bed!  
277·7406  needed cards inside. If found,  Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer  PURGATION. GUITAR: ANDY  These things are hard to come by.  4. just get in my face!  
please call x2722.  call 232-8256  ELLISON " VOCALS: JASON  Well actually, all you have to do is  3. in the R.V. bathroom?!?  
Hey GRACE Men!!  THOMAS" BASS: GENE SHEIKW  this ...  2. Don't worry, I've seen it all-oh  
Spend all your $ on break? Earn some for rest of the  WANTED  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS ·12 NEW UNITS· 1300 sq. ft.·  DRUMS: MARCUS VAUGHN" THE LAST SHALL BE FIRST.  Hey Anna,  wait, those are 2 guys!! 1. Would ya turn it down!!  
semester by delivering newspapers  Ironwood & Bulla · 2 B/R · 2 Bath ·  PENIS!!  Thanks. Love, Punjab  
in the dorm.  A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE!  available immediately· call287­ ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS:  
Call Kathy X4026  Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs.  0534 or 271·9268.  "JOBS, TRAVEL, ADVENTURE!  IT'S HERE!  
Boston/NY City. Super kids, great  200+ listings tor over 50,0000  WAKE IT SHAKE IT  FE OF BRIAN " LIFE OF BRIAN •  
NEED CASH?  food, friendly atmosphere. 100+  Needed-two female students to  positions · national/international.  DO IT DAWGIE STYLE  
Paper delivery person  staff: tennis, lifeguard. WSI,  share OAKHILL CONDO for 92·93  Send $4.95 + $1 P&H to  NOT THE MOVIE!  
needed for Grace Hall.  arts/crafts, all land/water sports,  year, and/or summer rental.  Renaissance Resources, Box 652,  
Call Kathy x4026  fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for  undergrad/law/grad.Amy or Stacy  Driggs, ID, 83422 or call 208-354·  ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL  THE BAND!THE BAND!THE BAND!  
shows, drama, judo, dance, archery,  @ 277·9452  2795."  COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED,  
FOR ONLY $1499 SPHINX TOURS  photography, computers, rocketry,  FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG  PLAYING FRIDAY NIGHT AT  
ANNOUNCES A 15 DAYS NILE  guitar, radio, video, yearbook,  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO.,  ATIENTION ND/SMC GRADS  BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO  GRACE COFFEHOUSE!  
CRUISE INCLUDING AIRFARE,  newspaper, wilderness, woodwork,  for large 4-BR, furnished house.  HEADED TO CHICAGO-Have a  ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY  
ON BOARD ONE OF OUR  AN. more!  Complete security system; washer  great apt before Sr Wk-Available  INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF  GET OFF YOUR BUTI & GO!IIII  
LUXURY FLOATING FIVE STAR  6/20·8/22. Call/write CAMP  & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259·  May 1st-2 bdrms,  FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND  
HOTELS SAILING BETWEEN  EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd.,  7801 or 255-5852.  1 bthrm,fireplace,hardwood  PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S  IAN • LIFE OF BRIAN • LIFE OF  
CAIRO AND ASWAN. ALL MEALS  Eastchester, NY 10707.  flrs,zoned parking, heart of Lincoln  ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID.  
INCLUDED FROM OUR  800/955-CAMP.  SUMMER TOWNHOUSE  Park,1/2blk from L,8 min to  JUDITH AND JESSE 1·800·933·  TOP QUOTES FROM ORLANDO  
EXQUISITE CUISINE, PLUS  FOR LEASE  dwntwn,adj to Depaul,$1 000/mo­ 3499.  ·Aquill  
SWIMMING POOL, BAR AND  Two bedroom townhouse at Turtle  heat included-Call Chris or Jim 312·  -Ted, why Jen, your mom is on the  
DISCO. VISITS TO 15 CITIES TO  SUMMER JOBS  Creek available for summer months  296·2924 6·10 pm  phone.  
SEE THE PHARAONIC  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  call John or Aaron at x3372  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  -I'm beginning to wonder why we're  
WONDERS. CALL 800·233-4978.  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  Jet there anytime tor $169 from the  here.  
LOST/FOUND  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800· 786-8373  FOR SALE  "JUNIORS, JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE JOB SEARCH" TONIGHT  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest (when available) with AIRHITCHI (Reported in Let's Go! & NY limes.)  -Michelle! You killed Figamnet! ·His nose is so big you could fit a tampon up there!  

 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL  For details:  -Subspace is the white stringy part  
LOST  SUMMER JOBS TO SAVE THE  89 Mercedes ...................... $200  6:30P.M. PAUL REYNOLDS OF  AIRHITCH(r) 212-864·2000.  of the orand that gets stuck in your  
ENVIRONMENT·  86 vw....................................$50  CAREER AND PLACEMENT  teeth.  
glasses in Ray-Ban case on  EARN $2500·3500  87 Mercedes ...................... $100  SERVICES. ALL WELCOME.  "JUNIORS, JUNIORS:  ·Brian and Kerri...Tomorrow's child.  
2/29 between the JACC and  National campaign positions to  65 Mustang .......................... $50  PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE  ·Mark, your back is dirty, Part II  
Keenan. Gold framed. Tortoise  promote comprehensive recycling,  Choose from thousands starting  Happy Birthday Erin Hardin!  JOB SEARCH" TONIGHT  ·So, Aldo, how's Katie handling your  
ear-pieces.  stop toxic pollution and sue the  $25.  118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL  stick? I'm quite satisfied.  
Please call Dave x3328  nation's worst polluters. Pos'ns in  FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals  To all ND students:  6:30 P.M. PAUL REYNOLDS OF  ·I coudn't tell if they were cute or not  
Chicago, 29 states and D.C.  Details 801-379-2929 Copyright  HAO will have a meeting on  CAREER AND PLACEMENT  b/c we've been away from cute guys  
LOST  Call Jamie toll free: 1·800·75·  #IN11KJC  Thursday, March 19, at 7:30pm in  SERVICES. ALL WELCOME.  for so long. It'll be even longer now  
EARTH  Farley Hall. All interested students  that we're going back to campus.  
Spalding NBA basketball lost at  Pioneer receiver & tape deck for  are welcome. Thank you.  "JUNIORS, JUNIORS:  -You do realize, Atlanta's only  
Stepan Courts on Thurs. before  sale x2322  PREPARING FOR AN EFFECTIVE  halfway.  
break on court nearest Stepan  Ex ND staffer and spouse desire to  JOB SEARCH" TONIGHT  -Everybody BLOW!!!  
Center. Last name is on ball  rent furnished apartment from  CD PLAYER-w/ remote, exc.  "VICTORIA'S REAL SECRET*  118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL  -Oops, donut hole!  
(Bianco).  middle of June until your return.  condition. Best offer, x2385  live:Fri.'s warm up at the  6:30 P.M. PAUL REYNOLDS OF  -Hey Susan -Cockaroach.  
References, non-smokers. JTW,  Coffeehouse,Sat.'s clean up  CAREER AND PLACEMENT  ·I can't believe this is working out!  
Found  135 Lakeview Dr.,Mulberry, Fla. 33860.  PERSONAL  at NAZZ, and next Wed. in Stepan tor peace week. Orig.  SERVICES. ALL WELCOME.  -Lower your head and watch your step, and if you don't, watch your  
Wilson basketball on same court as  (813) 425·4404.  tunes about love,fish,iguanas  Allegro Grand Opening specials  language because this is a family  
above. I assume someone took the  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  and life. Come and meet BD in  today thru Sunday.  operation.  
wrong ball by mistake. I would  Wanted: Female roommate(s) to  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  the slam pit and bring  Check it out!  -What's your major?  
appreciate exchange.  share apartment for the summer.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  pennies on Sat. for the war  -Welcome to beautiful and exotic ...  
Students staying for summer school  289-1993. Office near campus.  WANTED: 1 or 2 dedicated students  -Remember, you are neither 21 or  
Call Joe @ 2064.  or internships ideal. Call 283·4098  Richard Franklin:  to fill the Thurs.6·8  married!  
for information.  We are Strong !  May you live a thousand years,  evening shift tor COUNSELINE.  -Hey lets take the boat to Tom  
HELP HELP !II I've lost my sole­ May you drink a thousand beers,  If you are interested in providing this  Cruise Island.  
mate. I've heard that he was  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO  Get plastered you son of a gun,  community service, call239-7336.  -Full Moon Fever.  
hanging from a tree outside the  · fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO.  Happy birthday to you!  
Riley building before break. We  Free transportation! Room & Board!  SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM  SENIORS: Just one more day to  Tap, tap, tap, tap can you hear us?  
were separated on February 27,  Over 8,000 openings. No  ND BUS SHELTER. 674·7000 OR  turn in Holy Cross Asssociates  JAPS to Underbelly and Ship of  
1992, during a routine trip from the  experience necessary. Male or  1·800·833·5555.  hey nit  applications. Don't miss out on this  Fools can you hear us?  
CCMB to Rockne. He is a very  Female. For employment program  great opportunity!  Thanks tor a great break, wish we  
worn, tan (well, dirty tan)  call Student Employment Services  I, myself, cannot.  got lost in Disney. (Did we take a  
Birkenstock and holds great value.  at 1-206·545·4155 ext. 1597.  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  ADOPTION  wrong turn somewhere?) We miss  
If you can help me · please call  We are not strong  Into on semester, year, graduate,  If you think it may be best for your  everyone. -JAPS  
Brooke at x2665  Now taking aplication tor part-time  summer and internship programs in  baby and for you to consider  
employment in a  You should be with us, feeling like  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  adoption, please call us. We are a  
Bike Shop. 277·8866. Bike Shop  we do ...  Melbourne. Programs start at  responsible, childless couple with  
FOUND: Mechanical Drafting Pencil on the sidewalk by Farely Hall. To indentify and claim,  exp. required. I FOR RENT  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning Hotel, has rooms for  $3520. Call 1·800·878·3696. The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans!  values and traditions which offer a child security, 2 loving parents, and a warm home. We hope you will choose us to be the parents of your  :Jlmri<J..bu,'Uit:fl. tni L '5ln:he anti'Emnu1us  - 
call Chris at X2115 by the Sunday after break. ••••••FOUND"""""  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219·291-7153.  Graduation weekend. Located at Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're Open Everyday II!  baby. Legal and Medical expenses paid. Please call Bill and Kathy, collect, at 219·322·8187.  Companions visit !A£9tn'DatM  
pair of GLASSES  SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL·  deposit per room. Send letter with  Dear J.P.,  
found in bleachers at St. John's  3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE  deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd.,  to the athletic dept.:  Rumors are circulating that this will  'JJiu.rs, March. 19  
basketball game  OF FACILITIES,  Elkhart, IN 46514.  your time is gonna come  be your last year. Please don't go,  7:30p.m.  
on Sat. 2·29·92 call x4416 to identify  KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME.  United Limo round trip ticket to Chicago. Good for one year. $50  -led zeppelin It puts the lotion on its skin, or else  we don't want next years class to be deprived of the absolute living HELL that you have created for most of  Lifnvty>Wtfitorium !fru  
FND: 2 ties North Quad  CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  ticket for $40. 272·4311 Eggleston  it gets the hose again.  us.  
Call & Describe X3772  PAUL 232-2794. .  School.  (Stupid.)  Love your 12:15 Orgo Classs  


HIT BOX SCORE HD· WMU BOX SCORE
TRANSACTIONS 
NOTRE DAME 63, W. MICHIGAN 56

HIT ACTION PITTSBURGH 67, PENN ST. 65 
W. MICHIGAN (21-11) BASEBALL McGee 5-12 4-7 14, Grayson 3-9 2-6 8, PITTSBURGH (18·15) 
Antigua 6-9 1-3 16, McNeal 10-16 2-3 American League Havrilla 1-12 2-5 4, Sanders 1-6 2-2 5,
Firat Round 22, Morningstar 3-7 2-3 8, Miller 1-3 0-0Wedneaday, Marcn 18

CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Signed Joey Cora, Brooks 2-1 0 0-0 6, Pearson 0-0 0-0 0,
3, Shareel 0-6 1-2 1. McCullough 2-9 0-0 5,Tennessee 71, Alabama-Birrnlngham 68
Infielder, to a two-year contract, and Jackson 1-2 0-0 2, Sean Wightman 6-8 0-0
Mobley 5-6 0-0 10, Gant 1-2 0-0 2, MorganNotre Dame 63, Western Michigan 56
Sammy Sosa, outfielder and Craig Grebeck. 15, Shawn Wightman 0-0 0-0 0, Judge 1-2
0-0 0-0 0. Totals 28-58 6-11 67.

Virginia 83, Villanova 80
lnllelder, to one-year contracts. 0-0 2, VanAbbema 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 20-61
PENN ST. (21-8)Kansas State 85, Western Kentucky 74

FOOTBALL Hayes 9-16 1-2 20, Carr 1-1 0-0 2, 10-20 56.
Pittsburgh 67, Penn State 65
National Football League NOTRE DAME (15-14)
Degltz 5-9 2-5 12, Brown 3-13 2-2 9, CLEVELAND BAOWNS---Sig>ed James Ellis 6-7 3-8 15, Taylor 4-6 1-2 9, TowerMinnesota (16-15) at Washington State (21-10), midnight Barnes 7-10 3-3 19, Gaudio 0-4 1-3 1,Thuraday, March 18
Brooks, running back. 0-3 0-0 0, Bennett 5-17 3-5 14, Sweet 6­
Carter 1-2 0-1 2, Anderson 0-0 0-0 0,
Wisconsin-Green Bay (25-4) at Manhattan (23-8), 7:30 p.m. Wydman 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 26-55 9-16 65.
MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Signed Vencle 12 3-5 15, Boyer 0-2 0-0 0, Russell 4-4 0­
Butler (21-9) at Purdue (16-14), 7:30p.m.
Glenn, safety. 0 B. Cozen 0-0 0-0 0, Jon Ross 1-1 0-0 2.
Halftime-Penn St. 38, Pittsburgh 32.
Richmond (22-7) at Florida (16-12), 7:30 p.m.
NEW YORK GIANTS-Signed Greg Amsler, 3-Point goals-Pittsburgh 5-15 (Antigua 3-Totals 26-52 10-20 63.
Rhode Island (20-9) at Vanderbilt (15-14), 8 p.m.
running back. Hantlme-Notre Dame 27, W.
4, Miller 1-3, McCullough 1-6, Shareel 0-2),
Southern Illinois (22-7) at Boston College (16-13), 8 p.m Penn St. 4-12 (Barnes 2-4, Hayes 1-2,
World League ol American Football Michigan 23. 3-Point goals-W. Michigan 6­
Long Beach State (18-11) 8lt Texas Christian (22-10), 8:30 p.m. Brown 1-6). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­
WLAF-Suspended Jon Horton, London 18 (Sean Wightman 3-5, Brooks 2-8,
Louisiana Tech (23-7) at Ntow Mexico (18-12), 9:30 p.m. Pittsburgh 35 (McNeal, Miller 8), Penn St.
Mararchs lineman, lor the 1992 season. Sanders 1-3, Havrilla 0-2), Notre Dame 1-7 
Ball State (24-8) at Utah (;~0-1 0), 9:35 p.m.
Arena Football League (Bennett 1-4, Sweet 0-1. Boyer 0-2). Fouled
30 (Barnes 8). Assists-Pittsburgh 18Arizona State (18-13) at UC: Santa Barbara (20-8), 10:30 p.m.
DALLAS TEXANs-Named John Paul Young out-Jackson. Rebounds-W. Michigan 36 
(Miller 12), Penn St. 14 (Degitz, Barnes 4), coach. (Havrilla 10), Notre Dame 44 (Ellis 14).
Friday, March 20 Total fouls-Pittsburgh 16, Penn St. 16. A-James Madison (21-10) at Rutgers (15-14), 7:30p.m.

HOCKEY Asslsts-W. Michigan 8 (McGee, Havrilla 2),
6,970 National Hockey League Notre Dame 12 (Bennett 5). Total louls-W. 
SAINT LOUIS BLUES-Signed Bret Michigan 19, Notre Dame 16. A-6,220.
Second Round Monday, March 23

Hedlcan, delenseman. 
TBA. at campus sites

International Hockey League SAN DIEGO GULLS-Added Randy Hillier 
Tueaday, March 24 TBA. at campus sites

and John Gladltor, delensemen; Kent Hawley, center; and Christian Lalonde, wing, to their playoff roster. Sent Pat Cavanaugh. 
----I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I--
Tnlrd Round Wedneaday, March 25

forward, back to the New York Rangers lor TBA, at campus sites ~ 1992 NCAA® ~ 
reassignment. Named Charlie Simmer, Thuraday, March 26
player-coach, assistant coach. 
TBA. at campus s~esHORSE RACING 

I -·-·-~-·-·-~-I I•
I 
Fri 3/20 BUTLER UNIVEFlSITY 3:00pm
HAMBLETONIAN SOCIETY-Named Gordon Semifinal a
T. Sulcer executive director. Sat 3/21 St. Francos College 1:00pm 
I 
At New YorkCOLLEGE • Sat 3128 ALBION COLLEGE 1:OOpm •Monday, March 30DREXEL-Announced the reelgnatlon of 

Peggy Kane-Hopton, women's volleyball 1 Champlonahlp
coach. I~:: ~;~ ~;~College ~-~~ ~: ~ ·~ 
At New York Wednesday, April 1 

NEWBERRY-Announced the resignation • Sat 414 Calvin College 1 :00 pm
of Kevin Nunley. women's basketball coach. RAMAPO-Announced the resignation of ITues 4/7 BETHEL COLLEGE 3:00pm I • Jim Miceli, football coach, to become 
Thurs 4/9 Kalamazoo College 3:30 pm assistant football coach at Pittsburgh. 
• • I 
I 
Sat 4/11 North Central College Tourn. 
I

Named Rich Skrosky football coach. SAN DIEGO STATE-Named Tony Fuller (N. Central College. St. Mnry·s, • men's basketball coach. 
Elmhurst College, Trinity College) 
I 
SAN JOSE STATE-Named Craig Moropoulos quarterback coach. 
•Wed 4115 u. OF CHICAGO 3:00pm ~· TEMPLE-Named Tyrore Dixon wide Sat 4125 ILLINOIS BENEDICTINE'COLL 1:00pm •
I

receivers and offensive special teams • Tues 4128 Grace College 3:00 pm • 
I
coach. UNLV-Nemed Pat Christenson associate athletic director and executive director of Home Games in CAPS
L J • 
the Thomas & Mack Cemer and Sam Boyd Sliver Bowl. 
sOFTBALL !
L-~-~-·-·-·-~-·-~-J 
WHAT CAN I DO Wll'H A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
de·rNnds, security, stress. and work
A lot! The trainmg and analytical skills 
DO ANY NOTRE DAME MATH
environment. The top five. out of 250 job
acquired in stud)'lng mathematics are ch1ssifications, were, in descending order: MAJORS GO ON FOR HIGHER
preosely what many companies and professional schools look for. DEGREES IN THE
actuary, computer programmer, computer systems analyst, mathematictan. and 
MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES? 
CAN YOU BE MORE SPEOFIC? statisttcian. All five are in the Certainlv. Some of our best studentsWHAT KIND OF JOBS AND m1themancal sciences. 
continue m pure or applied mathematics,
WITH WHAT KIND OF 
I tiKE MATHEMATICS, BUT I'M computing science, statistics, and other
COMPANIES ARE SOME OF OUR 
NOT SURE THAT IT'S WHAT I mathematical saences. 
RECENT NOTRE DAME MATH 
WANT TO DO FOR TiiE REST OF They've gone to places like Huvard,
GRADUATES WORKING FOR? 
MY LIFE. WOULD Al\J Princeton. Chicago. Oxford, Berkeley, and Among our recent graduates two very UNDERGRADUATE DF.l.RJ::-;;-TN Wisconsm. Many of them teach at popular kinds of jobs have been as colleges and uruversities across the
MATHEMATICS MAKE SENSE 
actuaries and as computer programmers or country. Others work at places like Bell systems analysts. FOR ME? Laboratories or at government orgamzations like the Nauonal Security
A few of the insurance companies hiring It could very well. As I mentioned Agency.
our graduates as o~ctuaries are Allstate, eurlier, a ·dqree in m.athemati~ Massachusetts Mutual, OGNA, The 11~nt! training in analytical thought 
WHAT ABOUT THE PROGRAl\15 
Trave!ers, Prudential, Aetna Wieand aJ:wi quantitative skills tNt are 
OFFERED BY TilE MATH
Cuualty, and Metropolitan. ir1valu.able in many ilre&S of human 
DEPARTMENT?
endeavor.
AT&:T, Arthur Andersen, DuPont, IBM, The Department offers, all in the CollegeGE, Eastman Kodak, Morgan Stanley, ViHAT ABOUT NOTRE DAME of Science, a major in Math with possibleNCR, General Motors, and Xerox ue a few 
MATH GRADUATES? WHAT 
concentrations in Life Science. Education, of the companies where our math OTHER AREAS HAVE TilEY Engineenng Science, Social Soence,graduates work as programmers or GONE INTO? Computing, and Busmess Administration. 
11nalysts. 

A student can also double major in Math 
I'D name i1 few: medicine, music, 
and in, say, Philosophy.
THAT IS AN IMPRESSIVE LIST­dentistry, law, engineeri~ meteorology, BUT ARE THESE DESIRABLE 
bllSiness (MBA), 11pplied physics, and The department also offers an Honors theology. These student! continued their Mathematics Major in the College of
JOBS? 

sr~dies at places like Northwestern, Science and one in the College of Arts and The 1988 publication /085 RATED l'lorth urolina, Stanford, Indiana, Letters. ALMANAC rated job classifications using Dllinois, Yale, Boston College, University
the aiteria of income. outlook, physical of Pennsylvania, and Georgetown. 
Come to our Open House thiis Monday, March 23, from 6:30 to 7:30P.M. 
-
in Room 214 of the: Computing Center and Mathematics Building and find out more about our programs. You may also call the Math Office at 239..1245 to arrange an appointment with our Director of Undet'2raduate Studies. 
SPORTS SHORTS 
Cunningham and others to conduct mini-camp PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Eagles quarterback Randall Cunningham, anxious to come back from knee surgery, is flying four of his receivers to Las Vegas for a personal mini-camp next week. Eric Dickerson of the Colts also is expected to join them for a week of workouts at Cunningham's alma mater, UNLV. Cunningham has spent more than $30,000 for air fare, expenses, equipment, and rental of the field, office space and gymnasium, according to his business manager, Terry Bender. Sessions will include film study, conditioning workouts and passing drills. 
Aguirre may play for Mexico in Olympics DETROIT -WhilP. Pistons star lsiah Thomas was passed over for the U.S. Olympic team, his teammate Mark Aguirre may 
make it to Barcelona by playing for Mexico. Though he grew up in Chicago and has been a U.S. citizen his entire life, Aguirre may play for Mexico in the Olympics under a rule that allows players to represent a country where their father was a citizen. Aguirre, whose grandfather and father were born in Mexico, met earlier this month with Mexican Basketball Federation president Julio Ortiz in Los Angeles to discuss the possibility. 
Bishop receives sentence for brawl BATON ROUGE, La. -Louisiana State tight end Harold Bishop was sentenced to 15 hours of community service for his 
part in a brawl between football and basketball players at the athletic dorm in November. Bishop pleaded guilty to negligent injury. He was told to confine his fighting on the football field by judge Mike McDonald. McDonald suggested Bishop complete the sentence by working with underprivileged children through the Big Buddy program. Bishop was charged in January with battery of a police officer in connection with injuries sustained by officer Gary Shuford during the brawl in November. 
Retirement of ref due to mental stress LONDON ­
An English soccer referee who was head-butted by a fan who had stormed on the field told league officials he doesn't want to work another game this season. Roger Wiseman, who left the field clutching his head after he left the third division game between Birmingham City and Stoke, said Wednesday he was suffering from mental stress. Wiseman said he had to take a week off from his job as a marketing manager for a London bus company. Police arrested 24 spectators at the game in the worst soccer violence in England in several seasons. 
Thursday, March 19, 1992 The Observer page 15 
Indiana turns off Heat in OT victory ! 
j
MIAMI (AP) -Michael Williams scored 26 points, including seven free throws in overtime, as Indiana scored its final 12 points from the line against Miami. 
Chuck Person scored 27 points and Reggie Miller 23 for the Pacers, who pulled 1 112 games in front of the Heat in the Eastern Conference playoff race. Glen Rice had 21 of his 26 points in the first half and Rony Seikaly finished with 24 points and 14 rebounds for Miami. 
Williams, who hit 16 of 17 free throws, made two for a 113-109 advantage with 18 seconds remaining. After Miami's Grant Long hit two from the line, Williams made one of two to give the Pacers a 114-111 lead with 13.6 seconds left. 
Brian Shaw, whose 3-pointer tied the score 100-100 with 9.1 seconds left in regulation, missed a 3-point attempt for the Heat before Miller completed the scoring with two final free throws. 
Spurs 118, Kings 89 
SAN ANTONIO -Sean Elliott scored 26 points, including eight during a 20-2 run midway through the game, as San Antonio handed Sacramento its 1Oth consecutive loss. 
David Robinson, playing with 
San Antonio Spur David Robinson rises above the crowd in this game 
a sprained left hand, had 14 
against Detroit. Robinson helped the Spurs in their victory over 
points and 15 rebounds for the 
Sacramento last night with 14 points despite a sore ankle. 

Spurs, who moved within two games of Midwest Division­leading Utah. Mitch Richmond scored 20 points for the Kings, now an NBA-worst 4-30 on the road. 
Trailing 47-46 with 2:08 to play in the second quarter, San Antonio scored the final six points of the half and 14 of the first 16 in the third period to pull ahead 66-49 with 7:25 for the eighth time in 12 games and have four victories in their last seven road games. Larry Brown's record improved to 12­7 since taking over as coach of the Clippers on Feb. 5. 
Mavericks coach Richie Adubato again failed in a bid for his tOOth career victory. Mike Iuzzolino led Dallas with 19 points. 
continued from page 20 
''I'm happy that I was able to get in and help win it for the remaining in the quarter. 
Clippers 117, Mavericks 86 

DALLAS -Danny Manning scored eight of his 23 points during a 30-19 second-quarter burst that lifted Los Angeles past Dallas, which lost its 11th consecutive game. 
The Clippers, who got 22 points from Ron Harper, won 
seniors," Russell said. 

"When I was on the bench I 
saw some things that I would be 
able to do against them 
(Western Michigan). I knew I 
could beat them with a stutter­
step, but a lot of it had to do 
with being at the right place at 
the right time." 

MacLeod was extremely pleased with the way Russell .handled himself. 
"This was a big night for 
Malik," MacLeod commented. 
"It is great to see him respond 
in a competitive situation in the 
way he did tonight." 

Another freshman, Billy 
Taylor also quietly contributed 
to the Irish victory with nine 
points and two rebounds. 

"Billy is a solid, steady 
player," MacLeod said. "He did 
a great job on Wrightman and 
he is beginning to relax offen­
sively." 

The solid play of the two freshmen mixed well with play of the seniors. Ellis and Sweet topped the Irish with 15 points and Bennett chipped in 14. On the boards, Notre Dame was led by Ellis, who had 
14, and Keith Tower pulled down seven. 
"Notre Dame an outstanding group of seniors, and they are complemented by the kids (Russell and Taylor)," Western Michigan coach Bob Donewald. "I wouldn't be surprised to see them in the (NIT) finals." 
For the Irish the road to New York will continue on either Monday or Tuesday night. The opponent and site for the sec­ond round game will be an­nounced tonight at midnight. 
"Right now we are taking it one game at a time," .Russell said. "But New York is the ul­timate goaL" 
Finance Club Meeting 
Thursday, March 19 7:00p.m. Room 222 Hayes-Healy 
Questions? Call Scott at 
289-6642 
> 
-
• 
page 16 The Observer Thursday, March 19, 1992 
NIT fan turnout disappointing 
By ROLANDO De AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 

The Thunderdome was a­rockin'. 
The ACC's student section reached near-record decibel levels last night as Notre Dame pulled out of a mid-game slump to defeat Western Michigan 63­56 in first-round NIT action. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, their fellow students and local Notre Dame supporters were relatively sihmt when compared to the vocal. gold and brown­clad Western Michigan student fans spread throughout the ACC. 
The poor attendance (6,220) at last night's game likely con­demns the Irish, who will now continue in the bracketless tournament. to away games for the rest of the road to New York. 
"We wish that more fans had shown up," said senior guard Daimon Sweet. "We were kind of perturbed by the showing of the students and other fans. People don't realize that the crowd really makes a big dif­ference." 
The NIT, unlike most other tournaments, does not deter­

mine matchups and game sites for the event's next round until the current stage is over. Second-round games wiH be announced tonight at midnight, after all but one contest of the opening stanza are completed. 
"In a tournament like the NIT, attendance goes a long way to determine where games are played." said guard Elmer Bennett. "Tonight's game seemed like a road game. They had more fans than we had." 
After the low gate receipts of last night's game, the NIT brass will match the Irish against a school with high-voltage fans who are willing to buy tickets on short notice. 
In other words; Notre Dame will have to play yet another game in front of a biased oppo­sition. Though the Irish have enjoyed some success under similar situations this season, with wins at Syracuse and LaSalle, the Irish have been beaten in away games against NIT-caliber competition like Evansville and Boston College. 
So, with the grim prospect of a four-game road trip staring at them, the team is considering the four more games needed to win the NIT as a clean slate. 

"It's a brand new season for us," said Irish senior LaPhonso Ellis. "We really want that NIT championship." 
One group will bring Notre Dame to that goal. The Irish senior corps of Bennett, LaPhonso Ellis, Sweet and Keith Tower may have played its last game in the ACC, but the quartet is not ready to say goodbye to its Notre Dame uni­forms. 
"We don't want our careers to end yet," said Bennett. "Our goal is to get to New York and win the NIT." 
Coach John MacLeod's team has quickly put the disap­pointment of missing the NCAA tournament behind it, and is looking forward to a stretch run at the NIT title. MacLeod maintains that the Irish are one of the 64 best teams in the na­tion, but is ready to make his run at the NIT title. 
"This is not the NCAA, but the NIT is still a very good tour­nament," said MacLeod. "When you look at the teams that are in there now, it is an excellent tournament. We're pleased to still be playing. Springtime is a time to play." 
Tennesse, Virginia W'in; Ball State, Wis-GB play today 
(AP) Ball State's first round National Invitation Tournament matchup at Utah Thursday night comes complete with a little extra baggage. 
" ... This is a well-thought­out, discussed and unique match up they have made," Ball State coach Dick Hunsaker said. "It's not an afterthought. We will have one of the most unique games in the entire postseason." 
Random 
continued from page 20 

tomorrow. 
The Owls are NCAA regulars and have a veteran coach in Don Chaney. They could make the Wolverines' freshmen's first tourney a short one. 
There are also some upsets waiting to happen in the second round. 
In the West Regional, Indiana could face Dale Brown-coached LSU. Brown finds a way to win in the tourney and the Hoosiers are probably still reeling from Sunday's upset at the hands of Purdue, which knocked them out of a top-seeding and sent them to the West Regional. Bobby Knight should beware of a "Shaq Attack" in Boise. 
Another number two seed that could be in trouble is Oklahoma State. The Cowboys opened the season 20-0, but have lost seven of their last 13 games. If they get by Georgia Southern, they will face either St. John's or Tulane, who both have the talent to knock ofT the Big Eight runner-up. 
-
Two top seeds could also have a tough time in the second round. Kansas could run into a red hot Evansville team which crushed Notre Dame, 74-56, in 
its regular season finale and then rolled to a Midwestern Collegiate Conference title. It the Aces continue to play well, they could stop the Jayhawks from making a second straight Final Four appearance. 
The Big 10 Champions, Ohio State, might face Connecticut . 
What makes it special is that Utah coach Rick Majerus coached at Ball State for two years and led the Cardinals to their best record ever (29-31 in i 988-89 with some of the same players he will be facing Thursday. His assistant was Hunsaker. 
"This is very awkward," Majerus said. "It's very difficult. . . . I recruited and coached some of the players. I have a lot of 
The Buckeyes have had trouble with Big East teams recently. They were eliminated from last year's NCAA Tournament by St. John's and lost to Seton Hall on Super Bowl Sunday. UConn could continue this trend and send the Bucks home early for the second straight year. 
Finally, there is Duke, the consensus favorite to win it all. A lot of people have said that the Blue Devils have clear sail­ing to their fifth straight Final Four. However, I disagree. 
If the seedings hold true to form, Duke has two major obstacles to clear in the Regionals-Seton Hall a111d Kentucky. 
The Hall is a tournament team. In the Pirates' last two NCAA appearances they have reached the championship game (in 1989) and the Elite Eight (in 1991). 
Seton Hall plays top-noteh defense which is something that tends to carry teams a long way. 
good friends there. It's tough emotionally for me to play them." 
The game between Ball State (24-8) and Utah (20-1 0) is one of nine NIT pairings Thursday. 
The others are Wisconsin­Green Bay (25-4) at Manhattan (23-8), Butler (21-9) at Purdue (16-14), Richmond (22-7) at Florida (16-12), Rhode Island (20-9) at Vanderbilt (15-14). Southern Illinois (22-7) at 
There combination of different zones and man-to-man has given opponents fits in recent tournaments and could stifle the Blue Devils. 
If Duke handles the Hall, Kentucky will most likely be waiting. This is probably the most anxious team in the field. The Wildcats are eligible for the Big Dance for the first time in three years, and this is Rick Pitino's first NCAA Tournament since he led Providence to the Final Four m 1987 Kentucky has a lot to prove and their run­and-gun style makes them a dangerous opponent. 
Well, there are some games to keep an eye on if you like upsets. Even if they don't happen in the aforementioned games, they will happen somewhere on the road to Minneapolis because anything can happen. 
So, sit back and enjoy the tournament. 
Happy March Madness! 
The ()bserver 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available for any of the following afternoons: 
Monday through Thursday 
To apply, contact Colleen Knight at 239-7471. 
Boston College (16-13), Long Beach State (18-11) at Texas Christian (22-10), Louisiana Tech (23-7) at New Mexico (18­12), and Arizona State (18-13) at UC Santa Barbara (20-8). 
The first round, which began Wednesday night with six games, will be completed Friday night with James Madison (21-10) at Rutgers (15­
14). 

In Wednesday night's action, it was Tennessee 71, Alabama­Birmingham 68; Notre Dame 63, Western Michigan 56; Virginia 83, Villanova 80, and Kansas State 85, Western Kentucky 7 4. 
Pittsburgh played at Penn State and Minnesota was at Washington State in later games. 
Ball State has had 20-victory seasons in each of Hunsaker's three years as head coach. That matches the Cardinals' three 20-plus seasons in the 68 pre­vious seasons since the school began basketball in 1920. The Cardinals also have gone to three postseason tournaments under Hunsaker, reaching the NCAA's round of 16 in 1990 be­fore losing to eventual cham­pion Nevada-Las Vegas 69-67, and losing to Cincinnati 82-55 in the first round of the NIT last year. 
With 24 victories this season, they had hoped to return to the NCAA, but were left out of the 64-team field. In the NIT, they hope to prove the snub was a mistake. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay, the winningest team not to make the NCAA, also feels slighted at being omitted and will try and take out its disappointment on its NIT opponents. 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? . 1~-­IVV A workshop 'for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. SUNDAY. MARCH 29. 1992 12:30 -5:00 TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY MARCH 25. Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. Call 239-5242 for more information  

• 
Thursday, March 19, 1992 
ND crushes Lake Forest 
All contribute as lax team wins 26-3 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN tant win for the Irish if they are Sports Writer to continue their surge towards national prominence. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse "We talked about it, (the team bounced back from three three road losses), and we straight road losses to trounce know we can play with the na­Lake Forest 26-3 at Cartier tion's best teams if we minimize Field yesterday. our mistakes on offense and 
Lake Forest was no match for defense," said Senger. "We the motivated Irish, who took came into this game a little control of the game from the more determined, because of start. All players on the Notre the losses." Dame roster saw some action The win marked the eleventh in the game with an equal consecutive regular season win distribution of scoring among over Lake Forest. the starters and the reserves. Notre Dame has some time 
Lake Forest scored its first off before they face national goal near the midway point of powerhouse Hofstra on March the second period, and then 28. The game will be another followed with two more in the opportunity for the Irish to games final minutes. prove their worth against the 
The score was almost a nations elite. duplicate of the score turned by The Irish fell 13-7 to the the two teams in an exhibition University of Maryland­game prior to the start of the Baltimore County earlier this season. In the previous meet­season. UMBC beat Hofstra a ing the Irish had won 22-2. week earlier. The Irish can 
"We played them in the pre­take consolation in the fact season and knew what type of that, despite inconsistent play 
By JENNIFER MARTEN the high board event with Associate Sports Editor 397.15 points. At the women's event in Indianapolis, Gugle participated 
The 1991-1992 diving season 
in the one-meter event on
came to a close over break and 
Friday and the three-meter
the swimming season is in its 
event on Saturday.
final days. 
The sophomore did the full
Two Irish divers, sophomores 
list of required dives which in­
Sean Hyer and Angela Gugle 
cluded two forward dives, two
represented Notre Dame at the 
backward dives, two inverted
NCAA Zone Diving 
dives, two reverse dives, two
Championships. At the men's 

twister dives, and a free dive. Tanya Williams 
competition in Minneapolis, 
Gugle was honored to com­
Hyer dove in both the one-me­
meet last year. Unfortunately,
pete in the meet because she
ter and three-meter events. On 
her inexperience was a
did not qualify for the zone
Saturday he finishedz 26th in 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Seniors are invited to 
THE SENIOR INFORMAL 
APRIL 3, 1992 

7:00 PM --12 MIDNIGHT 
} 
I 
I 
A Polish wedding banquet will be served. Two great campus bands will provide dance music all night long. 
The Cost: $22.00 a couple, $15.00 single 
The Venue: st. Hedwig's Memorial Hall Western Avenue at Scott Street 
Tickets are' available from the LaFortune Ticket Desk I and must be purchased by March 30th. 
I
Sponsored by the Off-campus Coalition for Quality of Life 
I 
For further information contact: 
I 
Mike Richardson 272-6392 I Jim Mahony 289-7736 Tom McDermott 239-7800 
I 

disadvantage. 

"I was definitely glad to make the meet. It being my first time at the meet definitely had an ef­fect on me. It can be kind of in­timidating," said Gugle. 
Notre Dame junior Tanya Williams travels to Austin, TX to compete in the NCAA Swimming Championships this weekend. This will be the sec­ond year that Williams qualified for the meet. Last year, she earned All-American honors with her eighth place finish in the 400 individual medley with a time of 4:25.97. 
This year, Williams will com­pete in the 200 individual med­ley today, the 100-yard back­stroke on Friday, and the 200­yard backstroke on Saturday. Currently, the All-American holds Notre Dame records in all three events. 
At the United States Olympic trials in Indianapolis at the be­ginning of March, Williams fm­ished 13th in the 200 back­stroke, 22nd in the 200 individ­ual medley, and 23rd in the 100 backstroke. 
Flower Delivery 7 Days ~'SY 0 ~ttA Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets Clocktower Square (219)277-129151400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 Phone answered 24 hrs.  
I'Gt~o~i~~~ Yfu~r ~:didat~ :·::::::. Collegeof¥ngineering Out~tanding Thacher. Nominat:ion forms available in t:he ··:St:uderi'l·cent:e~ .. ··.:·:::· :·: ... : : :.::~:::: .. or use t:h-e form you received> in t:he mail Deadline for Nominations March 26, 1992 Drop your:Nomination at the Library or Engineering Deans Office  


r--------------.------------------------~--------~­
page 18 The Observer 
SMC softball opens! ~season 
Spring break scrimmages help solidify roster 
. ·­
.. :·-··: 

Photo courtesy of SMC SID The Belles will be wiothout the pitching skills of junior Stephanie . Th~ pitcher has decided to take the season off for personal reasons. Freshman Lisa Bright will take ove' the dutres on the mound for SMC. 
By MAGGIE HELLRUNG 
Sports Writer 
Well sports fans, with spring just around the corner, the sites and sounds of softball have once again infiltrated the Saint Mary's campus. After eight days in Fort Meyers, Florida, the Saint Mary's Belles are paving their way to what will be an exciting and challenging season. 
"The girls did a great job," said coach Don Cromer. 
The Belles played seven games and one scrimmage that week, averaging two games a day. They played an assortment of teams including two Division II teams, one being Keene State, which is the top-ranked in the nation for Division II. The extensive playing time allowed the Belles to tryout different playing positions, and get a 1992 line-up in order. 

Due to a basketball injury Janet Libbing , one of the b,'lles star players, is out for the "eason creating several changes for the Belle's infield. 
"When we lost Janet, we 

ND skier places at ski championship 
By AlAN AKEY Sports Writer 
Spring break, for many Notre Dame students, involved a week of hitting the beaches of Florida or Texas for some relaxation. Senior Bob Reich, however, spent his break in an entirely unique fashion-hitting the powdered ski slopes of Lake Placid, New York, in pursuit of a National Collegiate Ski Association championship. 
Reich, the first Notre Dame student to ever qualify for NCSA nationals, raced against that nation's cream of colle­giate skiers in the Slalom and Giant Slalom events. The field included members of many foreign national teams, as well as numerous future professionals. 
"Many of my competitors train seven days a week under the advisement of a coach," said Reich. The Notre Dame student fared well against his trained competition, placing 33 of 90 in the Giant Slalom. A fall prevented a comparable finish in the Slalom. 
Although his week may not have been the carefree break 
many Irish students enjoyed, 1-----------------------------1 
• 1992 Schedule I page 14 1 
lost a really good bat and! great leader," said Cromer. The Belles also lost four s ­
niors to graduation, anti junior Stephanie Kisscorni, last year's pitcher, who will be 
taking this season off. Because of thesie circumstances, the Bell~s were forced to create a~ almost entirely new infield. including three freshman, one sophomore, and two juniors. 
The infield is made up of sophomore Sara Millf'. playing first base, juni r Margie Pelton and freshm n April Rhoades rotating t second, and freshman Kristen Martina at third. Bridget McCourt has taken Libbing's 
position as shortstop, after playing third base last yeair. Freshman Lisa Bright ts 
pitching, with sophomo~e Jane Murphy behind the plate. 
When asked about the team's fresh-faced pitcher, Cromer was pleased with the 
play of Bright. 

t 
"Lisa has done a real go d job for us; we're really hap y 
Reich spoke well of his Reich. experience. , In placing 33rd, Reich 
"It was a real honor to cor:­himself certainly deserves to pete against the best colle e be classified among the skiers in the country," sa,·d nation's elite. 
THE CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS 
' 

PRESENTS "~NO EVIL": A FILM TIVAL 
WED. MARCH 18, "A DRY WHITE SEASON", FOLLWED BY A PAINEL DISCUSSION BY JULIUS OOSTHUIZEI't LISA BOSMAN AND GART~ IVIEINTJES 
I 

THURS. MARCH 19, "FOURTEEN DAYS IN MAY", FOLLOWED BY A PRESENTATION BY ALICE MILLER, DIRECTOR OF AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL'IlJSA DEATH PENALTY CA PAIGN. 
FRI. MARCH 20, "M SSING", FOLLWED BY A PANEL DISCUSSION BY CHRISTIAN CORREA, PEDRO AVUNIN AND TOMAS VIAL 
I 

7:qoI ' P.M. ROOM 120 THE LAW' SCHOOL 
with her," said Cromer. 
The Belles however did not lose their outfield, which is returning from last year. Senior Carol Grabner, who is the only senior playing this year is playing center field, with sophomore Stacy Bogetaj in right field, and sophomore Erin Wachter in left field. 
"I feel that our outfield is solid; I really have confidence in Carol, Erin and Stacy," said Cromer. "Carol will hold a real leadership role for the team." 
Also playing for the Belles this season are sophomore Andrea Salazar, and freshmen Laura Sterba, Seanne Patrick and Jen O'Dell. Captains for the '92 Belles are Janet Libbing, Carol Grobner, and Jane Murphy. 
The Belles swing into the new season when they play Division I Butler University at three o'clock on Friday afternoon at the Saint Mary's softball field. The team will then travel to Fort Wayne on Saturday where they will go head to head with Saint Francis. 
I I I I I I I I I 

Thursday, March 19, 1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•Sportsbrlefs 
are accepted In writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief, your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
Observer is looking for Saint Mary's sports writers. Anyone interested in covering Saint Mary's sports for The Observer should contact the Saint Mary's Sports Editor, Nicole McGrath, at The Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Cheerleeding 
tryouts will be held this Friday and Saturday at 7 pm in the basketball arena of the JACC. 

•32 
Team campus soccer registration deadline has been extended. Entries will be accepted until Friday at Rec Sports. 

•Mixed 
doubles tennis mixer at Eck Tennis Pavilion on Monday nights. Sign up in the Rec Sports office or call 239-6100 before Friday at noon. Pairings will be displayed at Eck and play begins at 9 pm. This is not a tournament. 

•Tae 
Kwon Do Club members competed in the Indiana State championships over break. Lisa Cobol took a silver and Matt Zinno took a bronze. 

•Bookstore 
Baketball teams that are interested in playing against the Hall of Fame team should submit their proposals to the secretary in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune no later then Wednesday, March 25. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball sign-ups will be held Thursday, March 26 from 6-9 pm in the Sorin Room of LaFortune and the lobby of Haggar Hall (SMC). The fee is $5 per team. Call Eileen or Tracy (x1093) for questions and revised eligibility rules. 

•The 
Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to pool repairs. Rolfs will he open Mon-Fri 7 am to 4 pm, 6:30 to 


10:30 and Sat-Sun 1 pm to 10:30. 
•The cheerfeading clinic scheduled for today will go from 8 ­10 pm rather than 7-9 due to Lou Holtz's speech this evening. 
' 




theprice ofagoodsandwichjust got lower. '' 

,.SUBWA'r 
t992 Doctors Assoc1a1es tnc 
$1.00 OFF I $1.99 SPECIAL I 
$1.00 off any regular footlong I Buy one regular footlong and large I sandwich. Limit five footlong 
I Coca-Cola at regular price, get a 
sandwiches per order. I
second regular footlong of equal orI lesser value for only $1.99. I Not good wnh any other disrount or offer. 
I 

Good only at participating locations. Double meats not Included. Not good I Expires May 31, 1992 I wrth any other disroun1 or oller. Good ooly 
I 
I 
at participating locations. Exp;r.., May 31, 1992 
I
I 

I
~1!F1UUJ!i ~·J :l!lUi"
I 

I 
·----------------------~ 
~----------------------------­
Today 
Thursday, March 19, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I SUI'I'OSE ONt. (I:)JlD RECOGI-l\7.E A Be'( Or Dt.S\1\'l'{ B'i 1-\\5 P\..N-U-Al-11>-SThR 
Ut.l~RPP-N~1S~._L_==========--......... 
At-lOl\-\ER TR£t-l(}\M{\ Cot<\M£.~1 B'i A. JtALOJS l.ES'St.R 1!-ITE.ll.EC\. 
-
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 
r.==::--------:::=~-":;'i';r.;u;:::::M::s:::;;-:-:-~:;;-, r-----=====:::------~ 
Basic lives 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Pasta Faziole Chicken Acropolis Oven Fried Chicken Vegetable Lo Mein Meat Ravioli 
Carl reads between the lines 
CAMPUS 

Thur~ay _ 
7 p.m. Film Festival: See No Evil. "Fourteen Days in May." Presentation to follow by Alice Miller, director o Amnesty International's USA Death Penalty Campaign. Room 120, Law School. Sponsored by Center for Civil and Human Rights. _ 
8 & 10:30 p.m. Film: "Monty Python's Meaning of Life." 
Thursdey, Merch 19th 
Monty Python~s THE MEANING OF LIFE 

[J)I--1
•$41-u;•,t>_._.. 

Cl1ti3~Qilr--.. 
ACROSS 
1 Moon walk, e.g. 4 Pasture sound 7 Miss Tiffin, for 
short 10 Krakow's country(abbr.) 13 First movie Tarzan, Elmo ­
15 Seafood dish 17 What strippers lack 18 Lure in legend19 City in S.E. Spain 20 Group closely 21 Philippine seaport 22 --disant 
(so-c a 11 ed) 23 Aqueous or vitreous 25 -veto 26 Of the soft palate 28 Name for a pontiff29 Walking from place 
to place 32 Chicago time (abbr.) 33 Obviously made-up 35 "-a deal!" 38 Jon Voight movie 42 De-Clinton 44 Passover feast 45 "Your majesty" 46 Sharif and Khayyam 48 Sports cars 
Cushing Auditorium. 


54 Melina Mercouri movie 56 "Bye Bye Birdie" 
song, "-Kiss" 57 May and Stritch 58 Held the green 59 -Plaines 60 -Alamos 61 Record player 
part 
DOWN 

1 Common street name 2 Commit sacrilege 3 Town near Lowell, 
Massachusetts 4 Popular chocolate syrup 5 Canadian province 
(abbr.) 6 Unspecified amount 7 Pain-killers, e.g. 8-Ben Adhem 9 Silent screen star 
Mae­10 Argumentative 11 Burdensome 12 Maui garland of the Ancient 
Mariner" 21 Conga maneuver 22 Colonies 24 File section 26 Turbine parts 27 Fall -, 
Massachusetts 
30 Threat in "Invasion of the BodySnatchers" 
31 Prefix: wax 34 Colorful African 
tunic 35-Jima 36 Kett1edrum 37 Hollywood hope­
ful 39 State of bliss 40 Cucumber or ivy 41 Shoe width 43 Roll one's r's 47 Lieu 49 Mulberry barks 51 Socks 52 -contendere 53 Gooey mass 54-Aviv 55 Doctrine 
LECTURES Thursday 

4:15 pm. Lecture: Postmodernism and Contemporary European Culture, "Feminism, Postmodernism, and the Philosophies of Violence," Mary Caputi, Saint Mary's College. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, Committee for European Studies, several Notre Dame departments, the University Libraries, and Saint Mary's College. 
7:30 
p.m. Lecture/Presentation: "God's Love Experienced in the Community," Henri J.M. Nouwen and companions from L'Arche communities in the U.S. and Canada. Library Auditorium. Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 

7:30 
p.m. Lecture: "Power Eating for the Run." Liz Ap­plegate from the University of California, Davis, a regular contributor for "Runner's World." Battell Center, 904 N. Main, Mishawaka. Reception following presentation. Sponsored by Northern Indiana Dietetic Association. 


8:00 end 1 0:30 PM Cushing Auditorium Admission $2.00 
Fri dey, Merch 20th Seturdey, Merch 21st MY GIRL 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 

r 
49 A crowd 14 Made from baked 50 "Please," old style clay52 Unsophisticated 16 Ease (2 wds.)53 Spanish Armada ship 20 He wrote "The Rime 
____j 



Sports 
page 20 I Thursday, March 19, 1992 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 

Campbell upsets Blue Devils (It could happen.) 
By the time most of you are reading 
this, arguably the greatest sporting 
event in America. if not the world. will 
have begun-the NCAA Tournament. 
Over the course of the next two 
weeks 64 teams will try to find their 
way to Minneapolis. Though almost 
everyone has their own brackets filled 
out and has their own idea of who will 
be in this year's Final Four, there is 
really no way of knowing. 

How many people picked Eastern 
Michigan to reach the Sweet 16 last 
year'! I don't think too many of you had 
Villanova winning it all in 1985 or 
North Carolina State in 1983. 

These are the things that make the 
NCAA Tournament so special. Upsets 
are almost the norm. Every year the 
entire country is provided with a 
Cinderella tPam to root for. 

This year two of the biggest long shots in the field are Campbell and Howard. The Camels have the dubious distinction of facing defending champion and top-ranked Duke today. Howard is the lowest ranked team in the field according to Sagarin's Power Rankings, coming in at 243rd. The Bison make their Tournament debut against Kansas tomorrow. 
Do either of these teams have a prayer? Probably not. But the fact that they have a chance is the thing that makes the NCAAs so much fun. In a single elimination tournament, anything is possible. 
Though the Camels and the Bison will most likely be spectators by Saturday, there are some lower-seeded teams that have a chance to make some noise. 
Obviously the first team that comes to mind is the Ivy League Champions, Princeton. The Tigers, the 11th seed in the East Regional, face Syracuse in the first round. This could be the year that Princeton, who has lost in the first round in the last three years by a total of seven points, finally gets to round two. 
ThP. Tigers have given Big East teams fits in two of those three games, losing to Georgetown in 1989 and Villanova last year in the closing seconds. Tigers' coach Pete Carrill will outcoach Jim Boeheim, and last year's opening round loss to Richmond has to be looming in the back of the Orangemen's minds. Even if Princeton does not pull it off, this should be the best opening round. 
Other first round upsets possibilities are Murray State over Arkansas and Temple over Michigan. The Racers, the Midwest's 14th seed, are led by the na­tion's leading rebounder, Popeye Jones and have NCAA Tournament experience, much like the Temple Owls, who welcome Michigan's Fabulous Five to post-season play 
see RANDOM I page 16 
INSIDE SPORTS 
IITanya Williams heads to NCAAs see page 17 
•Reich 
skies In Nationals see page 18 

•Lacrosse 
downs Lake Forest see page 17 



Notre 1[>ame fencer seriously injured in accident 
By JIM VOGL · Further operations will take place in Assistant Sports fditor the next three to five days. I Calderhead is reported to be in good Senior David 1Calderhead, the Notre spirits at St. Joseph's hospital. 
, 

Dame fencing team's two-time epee All-"He's lucky to have a leg to walk on," American and c~ptain, was hospitalized said Notre Dame fencing coach Mike late Tuesday e~ening due to injuries DeCicco. sustained in a J'otorcycle accident. DeCicco and the Irish will be without 
Calderhead, · native of Wandsford, Calderhead, who was one of the England, was e iting the Cash Station at favorites for the epee gold medal, at the 
11:30 p.m. at ~e US 23-Ironwood in-NCAA Fencing Championships which
David Calderhead 

tersection on a otorcycle when he was will be held March 20-24 at the Joyce hit by an on oming car. Neither nine places and his leg is in traction. He ACC Fieldhouse. motorist appeared to have seen the also broke his arm above the elbow. Last season Calderhead finished third other. L Doctors put the arm in a cast and at the NCAAs and compiled a 37-4 
Calderhead's ~nee was shattered in performed surgery on the leg early record. Wednesday to prevent infection. 
Irish ~1ang on to beat WMU 63-56 in NIT 
Russell1sparks ND in last nine minutes with big plays 
By MIKE SCRUb.t~TO Sports Editor 
For a while iJ looked as if the Notre Dame men's basketball team·1 season would come to an abrupt end last night at the oyce ACC. 
• 
The road toN I page 16 

• 
NIT roundup/ page 16 


Western Michigan, which trailed by as many as 13 points in the firs1 half, was giving the Irish fits with its tenacious secon!half defense and was able to trim the Notre Dame lea to 41-40 when Sean Wrightman, the nation's top thre: -point shooter, sunk a trey with 9:48 left. ~ 
Disaster seeme~ inevitable when LaPhonso Ellis picked up his fourth fo~l a minute later. He was replaced by point guard/small' forward/center Malik Russell. 
"There have b~en times this season that Malik has stood out for the lba.d things he has done, but tonight he 
1

stood out for the good things he did," Irish coach John 
1 MacLeod said. i With Notre D~me clinging to a 49-45 lead Russell grabbed an offense rebound of an Elmer Bennett miss and layed it back lin at the 5:44 mark. This sparked a 9-0 Irish run in wh ch Russell scored six points, three rebounds and an lllSSist. On the Broncos) ensuing possession, he pulled down a defensive board ard proceeded to go coast to coast to up the Irish's advantage to eight. Following a Br9nco timeout and a free throw by Ellis, Russell added tw? more points when he finished a fast break which was &tarted by a Bennett steal. The run was t~en topped off by yet another Russell rebound, after w~ich he hit a streaking Daimon Sweet with a perfect outlet for an easy layup, which finished the Broncos. From thlre the Irish cruised to a 63-56 victory. The Observer/ Jake Peters Freshman Malik Russell proved to be a potent weapon in the later part see NIT/ page 15 
of the second half of last night's game against Loyola. 
Womeljl fall to UCLA 93-73 in NCAA first round 
By RENE FERRAN McGraw. "But we were ex­staying with me," noted the defensive end," added 
Sports Writer I tremely nervous at the start, Anderson, who finished with freshman Michelle Marciniak, and we never regained our 16 points. who led Notre Dame with 21 composure." However, the Irish were points. "We played well in
LOS ANGELES-The tone of And while UCLA (20-9) was able to stay close in the first spurts, but we never werethe game was setJin the first 
not sizzling from the field ei­half. Despite shooting less able to get into the flow of the two Notre Dame ossessions. 
ther, 27 offensive boards that 30 percent for the half, game."
First, senior Margaret Nowlin 
compensated for its 41 they were only down 37-24 at After a UCLA timeout, themissed a wide-o[I>en layin. 
percent shooting. halftime. Freshman Letitia Bruins were able to build
Then, Comalital Haysbert 
"When you are an Bowen's 12 first half points back a comfortable margin.
could not convert after a nice 
aggressive team on offense helped keep Notre Dame Sophomore Amy Jalewaliadrive to the basketf 
like we are, you tend to get within striking distance. scored 13 straight points forIt was that kind bf night for 
on the boards more," Coming out of the locker UCLA during a 16-4 Bruin
the Irish, who hit only 34 
explained Bruins coach Billie room after halftime, the Irish run as they opened up a 23percent from thel field in a Moore. "We also were able to still hung tough, holding point lead, 66-43, with 9:3893-72 loss to .hH UCLA 
get the game to our tempo UCLA scoreless for over four to go.
Bruins in the firs~ round of 
early, and we changed what minutes at one point early in "A team will be successful
the NCAA women's 
they wanted to do offen­the second half. But they if its spurts last longer and
basketball tourna~ent. 
sively." could score just seven points are more productive than it'sNotre Dame's fi~~t-ever ap­
UCLA point guard Nicole themselves during that opponent's," explainedpearance in the ~CAA's got 
Anderson exploited her stretch. putting the Bruin Moore. "Tonight, our spurtsoff to a rocky st~rt as the 
quickness advantage on her lead to nine, 44-35, with were more explosive andBruins raced to an I early 17-2 
Irish counterpart Kara Leary, 14:49 remaining in the game. more productive."
lead and never lo@ked back. 
scoring 10 first half points­"We stayed with them for a Notre Dame made one lastDuring the stretch!. the Irish 
two better than her season while and plyed good defense gasp effort two minutes later.
(14-18) made just dne of their 
average-and dishing off during that period of time, Coquese Washington buried afirst 14 shots. 
three assists. but we just couldn't 16-footer from the baseline"I thought all ofl our shots "I noticed that while Leary capitalize, "said McGraw. and then hit two free throws.
early were good ones," said 
1 played me tough the entire "We were hoping to get into Notre Dame coach Muffet 
see WHOOPS I page 13
game, she had a difficult time a groove by working hard on 








