The Observer 
VOL. XXV NO. 20 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

MIT prof:Economy is campaign focus 
By THERESA ALEMAN 
News Writer 

The state of the American economy is and should be the main issue for both candidates and voters in the upcoming election, according to Frank Levy of Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
• Candidates speak of economy! page 1 0 
Levy assessed the state and future of the American economy in his lecture Thursday, "The Economy and the 1992 Election." 
Levy suggested that the state of the economy holds this importance because it is a "metaphor for society." He added, "We are all in the econ­omy together and it effects us all as a community and as a nation." 
When asked which candidate had the best economic platform, Levy responded, "Clinton's plans and gut feelings for economic issues are best...but whether he would implement them or propose them is questionable." 
Levy confessed to previously speaking publicly on behalf of Clinton but remarked, "he speaks to please people." 
Levy referred to Bush's domestic economic policy as "something which bores him," and added, "he has no patience for what bores him." 
Levy insisted that the economy can be

Notre Dame Stadium 
improved or left in a state of disrepair by the 
president. Levy cited "strong leadership" as the
Students filled the student section with green as The Shirt made its debut at the Michigan game. The shirt represents the 
sole hope for an improved economic state. 
tradition of the coaches at Notre Dame. It is available at LaForture Student Center, the bookstore, and from hall managers. 

Italy joins Britain in abandoning currency system 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) -In rectors met in emergency ses­cially, if they prove to be short­economy "is still the leader of yet another shock to the drive sion to try to salvage the system term, may have little direct ef­the world," Fitzwater said. for European economic union, that binds their countries' fect on prices. They could, The head of the International Italy today joined Britain in currencies. however, still have a strong Monetary Fund said the eco­abandoning the European EC financial officers, after a psychological effect in under­nomic turmoil highlighted the currency system and allowed six-hour overnight meeting, mining confidence in the future urgent need to rein in the the lira's value to be dictated by announced the moves by Italy of European economic organi­bloated budget deficits of major market forces. and Spain and stressed their zation. countries. 
Spain, whose currency had "unanimous commitment to the But there was no indication been kept strong through the European Monetary System as a On Wednesday, Britain's the British pound was in any intervention of the nation's key factor of economic stability leaders decided that adhering kind of "free fall," IMF Director central bank, devalued the pe­and prosperity in Europe." to the system was just too dam­Michel Camdessus said in seta by 5 percent. aging for their recession-ridden Washington. 
The currency crisis, triggered The 10-year-old system sets economy. Within hours Italy The pound recovered partially by developments on the German maximum fluctuation rates for followed suit, after devaluing against the dollar today, but 
~ 

market, has shaken the EC currencies and forces the lira by 7 percent over the continued to fall against the government of British Prime members to raise interest rates John Major weekend. German mark. In early after­Minister John Major, who broke and buy large amounts of their It also is also designed to in­The result was a further ero­noon trading, the pound was with his predecessor, Margaret own currencies in order to stay spire confidence in still-closer sion in the value of both cur­quoted at $1.7720, up from Thatcher, to embrace the within the allowable range. monetary cooperation in the fu­rencies. $1.7385 in the morning, but concept of European monetary The arrangement is meant to ture -including a single Euro­White House spokesman Mar­well below the level of $1.8083 union. facilitate trade among commu­pean currency -and is an im­lin Fitzwater told reporters to­from late Wednesday. The 
After Britain's failed attempts nity nations by enabling com­portant psychological symbol of day that the Bush administra­pound was at 2.6400 German Wednesday to prop up a panies in one country to know European cooperation in gen­tion was keeping an eye on the marks in early afternoon, after plummeting pound by raising that the prices of goods in an­eral. currency crisis. falling through the exchange interest rates, the European other will not vary radically This week's dramatic fluctua­The dollar's gain over the past system floor of 2.7780 marks Community's central bank di-from one day to the next. tions in currency values, espe-two days proves the American late Wednesday. 

Speaker claims media invent false images for women, racial minorities and the poor 
By MICHELLE GODWIN women; groups which are The media have shifted away News Writer "littered with images of very from women's equality and to­cumbered selves," she said. ward the traditional, idealized Di Leonardo claims there notion that a woman's natural Much of American tradition is have been negative shifts in the duty is to be the nurturing care­invented rather than based on media over the past fifteen giver, di Leonardo said. Women fact, according to Micaela di years, for example, from civil in power positions are viewed Leonardo, professor of Anthro­rights concerns toward a tradi­as witches and evil cut-throats, pology and Women's Studies at tion of blaming social ills on the she added, and women who are Northwestern University. black underclass. nurturing and passive are 
In her lecture Thursday, To support her argument, di portrayed as the ideal. "Gender, Ethnicity and the Leonardo asserted that the The traditional notion that the Temptation of American In­media influenced Americans to construction of the United vented Traditions," di Leonardo believe primarily blacks were States is due to white, middle­criticized idealized notions of involved in the Los Angeles ri­class men excludes the valuable white ethnicity and women's ots last April, although forty contributions of women, mi­culture and traditions she said percent of the arrested individ­norities and the poor, di have been invented to suit uals were Hispanic. Leonardo said. middle-class white men. She also questioned claims of This, di Leonardo said, per­
Di Leonardo said she believes the "epidemic" of pregnancies petuates the recent tradition of sexist, racist mass media are to among black teenagers, and viewing women and minorities blame for idealized notions of said statistics show the rate of as "special interest" groups and "unencumbered selves." Those teen pregnancies among therefore implies that middle who view Americans in this way African Americans has been and upperclass white men are ignore minorities, the poor and decreasing steadily since 1960. "primary interest" groups. 

~~~--­

page 2 Friday, September 18, 1992
The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Supposing the new DeBartolo classroom building was constructed based on the old architectural maxim "form follows function," then it would follow that the function of the student is a mechanical, inhuman one. 
DeBartolo's geometrical A
forms, rectilinear 

similarly geometric, rectilinear, sterile and hospital-like student. The building, overwhelming with all of its technological capabilities, becomes a factory of learning and not an environment for reflection and contemplation-the most essential practices o true learning. 
My gripe with the design of DeBartolo runs deeper than having to learn in an uninviting environment. The human is a spatial animal. And according to philosopher Henryk Skolimowski, evolutionary and social development has endowed the human organism with a number of spatial needs. 
One of those needs is the natural. In other words, the organic, the spiritual and the wide open. We tend to develop a demeanor which mimics our environment. Likewise, our architecture tends to reflect our demeanor. 
Ultimately, we are caught in a vicious circle. Our technological universe dictates that we construct objective, quantified and standardized habitats. Then our objective, quantified and standardized constructions turn us into scientific, mechanical and inhuman beings. 
We can trace the origin of this problem back to Newton, Bacon, and the Age of Reason. Under this rational and scientific mind set, our spaces have become entirely physical, eliminating the other needs-spiritual and social-we have as spatial creatures. 
So we can not blame the architects of De­Bartolo for constructing such a monster. Even with all of its digital clocks, computer contraptions, and its contrived "interaction space" outside of the computer lab, the building, I am sure, was built with good intentions. 
In fact, instead of blaming anyone, we need to become more aware of the social and environmental interaction in which we take part, and how it shapes our being, our identity and our perception of the universe. 
While DeBartolo may be a painful sign of the failure of our times, simply building more human edifices will not be enough. A complete paradigm shift, one that will transform our thinking from technological reverence to a focus on quality of life, will be required. 
Humanity is diverse. It has also been said that humans have a propensity for self­transcendence. These characteristics must be accommodated in our architecture if it is to survive and sustain human beings. . 
By understanding the wholeness of the human, and how that wholeness is connected to our habitat and to our environment, we will be able to better satisfy our needs. 
Today's Staff 
News Sandy Wiegand Mike O'Hara  Production Susan Marx Whitney Sheets  
Sports Jim Vogl George Dohrmann  Systems Cesar Capella  
Viewpoint Alison Ebel Brian Stalter  Accent Terry Edwards Tomi Otey Jennifer Guerin Kenya Johnson  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Jennings works for coverage change 
NEW YORK -It's unusual for a network anchor to acknowledge that there are problems with TV's cover­age of the sound bites and photo opportunities that U.S. political campaigns have become. Yet few people no­ticed last week when Peter Jennings, anchor of ABC's "World News Tonight," acknowledged that people have soured on TV's approach to politics: "We are aware that a lot of you are turned off by the political process and that many of you put at least some of the blame on us for the way we cover political campaigns -or do not cover them," he said on Thursday's broadcast. So, ABC News will try to do things differently for the next couple of months of campaign coverage, Jennings said. "We'll give you the day's headlines, and we'll only devote more time to a candidate's daily routine if it is more than routine," he said. "There'll be less attention to stage appearances and sound bites designed 

OF INTEREST 
POW-MIA Awareness Day is today at 4:30 p.m. at the South Quad flagpole. There will be a retreat ceremony to honor our POW-MIAs. 
The ISO picnic is at Holy Cross Field at 5 p.m. Free, food and drink will be available. Come show your volleyball and soccer skills as well. 
Massman on Nocturne. Kim Massman will be fea­tured on Nocturne tonight on 88.9, WSND-FM. Tune in at midnight for alternative music and call Kim with your requests at 239-7342. Also, hear Dave Alert tomorrow night with reggae, and John Streider with more alternative Sunday at midnight. 
Faculty music recital. A piano quartet concert will feature the music of Mozart and Faure this Sunday in Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. William Cerny, pianist, will join the Notre Dame String Trio-Carolyn Plummer, violinist; Christine Rutledge, viola; and Karen Buranskas, cello-on a faculty recital at 2p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 17 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 277.345,390 +.03 to 231.07 S&P COMPOSITE 
+.15 to 419.92 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-8.11 to 3,319.21

UNCHANGED 577 

GOLD 
+53.30 to $350.20 
SILVEH 
+$.015 to $3.821 

exclusively for TV." He also pledged that ABC would focus on "how the battle for your vote is fought" and "examine very closely how the candidates respond to your concerns on what you have told us are the most important issues." 
Burger King expanding menu 
MIAMI -Burger King thinks it has the solution to an age-old problem for fast-food restaurants-how to at­tract more customers for dinner. The answer: Offer meal baskets with everything from shrimp to steak sandwiches delivered right to the tables. Although Burger King sells 2 million of its Whoppers a day, the company discovered people were switching to pizza or some other food other than burgers in the evening. Bonuses will include free popcorn and in some cases such sit-down restaurant touches as tablecloths and napkin rings. Baked potatoes are offered as an alternative to french fries, and a choice of salad or cole slaw is available. The first dinner menus began showing up at Burger Kings nationwide last week. 
Bagpipe Club holding meeting for members new and old. Our first meeting is this Sunday at 2 p.m. in the large room in Crowley Hall. All are encouraged to attend. 
Ferguson/Zhang/Kulosa ,a piano/violin/cello trio, will be in concert Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. For more information call the music department at 284-4632. 
RCIA and Confirmation volunteers are asked to at­tend an informational meeting to be held Sunday at 4 
p.m. for RClA volunteers and 5 p.m. for Confirmation volunteers in the Notre Dame room of LaFortune Student Center. Volunteers learn from each other by sponsoring friends and peers who are being confirmed or converting to Catholicism. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1850: Congress passed the Fugitive Slave Act, which 

allowed slaveowners to reclaim slaves who had escaped into other states. 

• 
In 1851: The first issue of "The New York Times" was pub­lished. 

• 
In 1970: Rock star Jimi Hendrix died in London at age 27. 

• 
In 1971: United Nations Secretary-General Oag Hammarskjold died in a plane crash in northern Rhodesia {now Zimbabwe). 

• 
In 1991: President Bush declared that he would send warplanes to escort U.N. helicopters searching for hidden Iraqi weapons if Iraqi President Saddam Hussein continued to impede the inspectors. 




~---~ ----~------~-~~ ­





Thirty-five states and territories posted increases while 18 reported lower claims. 
The number of claims fell by a record 91,000, from 474,000 to 383,000, during the week ended Aug. 15. That was the first time it dipped below 400,000 since 382,000 applica­tions were filed during the week of Oct. 6, 1990. 
They rose to 386,000 the fol­lowing week and to 394,000 during the week ended Aug. 29. 
Claims had been held down by the hurricane in the Aug. 29 
rumblings were still coming from the volcano, but they weren't believed to be precur­sors of another eruption, said Steve McNutt, a volcanologist at the Alaska Volcano Observatory. 
Thursday's ash plume, which rose to 50,000 feet, drifted northeast from Spurr, dumping its grit on a number of small communities in Alaska's Matanuska and Copper River valleys before heading toward the Canadian border. 
The Alaska Volcano Observa­tory said the eruptions were at least as strong as the Aug. 18 blast that dumped nearly a quarter-inch of ash on Anchor­age, the state's largest city, and shut down Anchorage Interna­tional Airport for 20 hours. 

Happy 21st> Bert! Get Some! 
The Dillon/ LaFayette Posse 
reporting period because the storm had forced the closing of several Florida unemployment offices. In the latest period, however, Florida reported 2,553 layoffs, due in part to the reopening of the closed unem­ployment offices. 
At the same time, four states reported new claims totaling more than 1,000 that included layoffs in the automobile indus­try. The GM strike in Ohio had caused plants to close in other states because of parts short­ages. 
International flights were canceled there Thursday, but by the afternoon most carriers had resumed domestic flights, as most of the volcanic ash by­passed Anchorage, which is 80 miles east of the volcano. 
"Daylight came and we didn't see the ash or taste it," said Mike Tobin, supervisor of op­erations at the airport for Alaska Airlines. 
But there was an eerie dawn in Willow, a town of about 2,000 people 50 miles north of Anchorage. Ash covering the deck at Jane Mulhall's home looked at first like a light coat of frost. 
"I thought: 'That's funny, it doesn't sparkle like frost,~ said Mulhall, a postal clerk. 
- --~-­ -------------~­~~  
page 4  The Observer  Friday, September 18, 1992  


Symposium on 'art and technology' to be Saturday 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame department of art, art history and design will host a symposium on "The Question Concerning Art and Technology" Saturday from 8 
a.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the An­nenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
The symposium title refers to an essay in which Martin Hei­degger claims "that both mod­ern science and modern tech­nology entrap and enframe nature, (but) that there is an al­ternative ... that will 'bring forth and reveal,'" according to Craig Adcock, professor of art, art history and design. 
Adcock hopes that Heideg­ger's idea will "serve as a point 


Irish fishermen'catch' a U.S. Navy sub 
KILKEEL, Northern Ire­land (AP) -A trawler cast­ing its net for cod in the Irish Sea caught the world's biggest sturgeon -and was the crew ever relieved that it got away. 
The U.S. Navy submarine Sturgeon nearly dragged the four crewmen to their deaths, the skipper recalled Thursday when his 60-foot trawler was back home and under repair in Kilkeel har­bor. 
The 54-ton trawler Lupina was pulled like a bathtub toy for more than five minutes off the Scottish coastline Wednesday night. 
"Once the boat started to move backwards I knew that something wasn't right," said Paul Johnston, captain of the Lupina. 
"He nearly pulled me into the path of a ferry. The stern went completely underwater," said Johnston, 30, who has fished the crowded Irish Sea for 14 years, but until now has never caught anything nuclear-powered. 
Johnston said that the four were saved when the nets broke under the strain, but for several anxious moments the outcome was uncertain. 
"The net cables were brand new," he said. "I didn't think they would break. To be truthful, if the wires hadn't a'broke, we definitely wouldn't be here today." 
The near tragedy has re­opened a debate on whether submarines should be allowed in fishing waters. 
"It's hard enough to make a living in the sea at the minute without these boys playing war games under­water, you know," Johnston said. ''I'm still shaking yet. Some of the crew definitely won't go back out." 
A similar incident in 
November 1990 cost the lives of four Scottish fisher­men aboard the trawler Antares, whose nets became snarled in a British submarine on training exercises. Lt. Cmdr. Peter McDonnell, who was piloting the sub Trenchant for the first time, was found guilty last June of three counts of negligence. 
A warning system was in­troduced, requiring the Bri­tish navy to give the location of its subs to the British coast guard. The coast guard sends out reports every four hours, which the fishing boats monitor. 
But fishermen complain the reports are not specific or frequent enough. The skipper of the Lupina said he had not heard about the 292-foot Sturgeon, which weighs 4,640 tons under water. 
George Foulkes, defense spokesman for the opposi­tion Labor Party, demanded a ban on submarines in fishing waters. 
"This is exactly the kind of incident that we warned could happen -almost an exact repeat of the Antares." 
The U.S. Navy said it has appointed a senior officer to investigate how the submarine came into contact with-the drift nets, which the crew estimated were 400 feet to 450 feet deep in waters 12 miles off the coast. 
"The bottom line is, if we can hear a vessel then we avoid them. It's not always possible to avoid a boat," said Navy spokesman Lt. Ike Skelton. 
Johnston said he was stung that the sub didn't surface for half-hour, and then only after an American commander radioed his vessel to apologize. 

of departure" for a discussion video department; Chicago among the artists, critics and artist Dan Peterman; Joe scholars taking part in the Scanlan, assistant director of symposium. the Renaissance Society at the University of Chicago; and 
Among the symposium Kathleen Biddick, associate speakers will be music critic professor of history at Notre John Corbett; Maureen Sher­Dame. lock, professor in the film de­Further information on the partment at the Art Institute of symposium may be obtained Chicago; Vanalyne Green, chair from Craig Adcock at (219) 239­the Art Institute of Chicago's 7602. 

ND institute to expand services,change name 
By JOHN CONNORTON News Writer 
The Notre Dame Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry will expand its programs in service to the American Catholic Church, and has changed its name to the Notre Dame Institute for Church Life, it announced Tuesday. 
University Provost Timothy O'Meara has formed a search committee, composed of vari­ous members of the faculty and the administration, to seek out a full-time director for the insti­tute. 
"The new director has to be someone who is able to estab­lish links with units, organiza­tions, and groups on campus that also have an interest in the 
Today's the day to quit smoking. 
church," said Kathleen Cannon, 
associate provost and chair of 
the search committee. 
The institute has worked 
hand-in-hand with the Center .for Social Concerns, the Pro­gram for Church Leaders, and the Center of Pastoral Ministry in addressing the priorities of 
the Catholic Church. 
"We feel that the institute 
could better respond to the 
needs of the American Catholic 
Church with full-time leader­
ship," said Cannon. 
The existing institute was 
founded in 1976 by Father 
Hesburgh to engage in activities 
designed to address specific 
needs in the Church, most 
notably in the areas of liturgy, 
retreats, ministry renewal and 
social justice. 

SECURITY BEAT 
MONDAY, SEPT. 14 

.8:36 a.m. A Fi$httr Hall reskilltnt r~­ported the theft of tlis bicy¢1e from the bik& rack outside of his donn. 
3:46 p.m. A lyons Hall residem r&. ported the theft of her license plate from her vehicle while the vehicle was parked in the 0-6 parking lot. 
TUESDAY,SEPT.15­

12:24 a.m. Several Siegfr:ied Hall resi~ d.l!nt$ reported rlltcttiving 1Jara11t>ing phone calls. · 
8:30 a.m. A lllsitor to the UoNersiiy re· 
• ported the theft ot his leather bag from outside oJ lhe racquet~!!-cot~.rt he .was playing in anne JA<;:.c; .. . 9:06.a.m~ Saint Marf$ stafl mer\ll)&r repqrted. \be loss of .a pair Pf gtasses. 1d. p.fu.••ANotre Dame st~d!mt t~" -• 
·J:iQrta¢1 !he theft [if h~ jacket from ~1$1$ .qt· the racqu~ltll!ll court M was playing auo the JAC;C; ·· _ ·.·. 1l:!ilfp.tn. AKnottHall residen1 r-&• ported receiving harassing phone calis; 
WED., SEPT. 16 

12:38 a.m. A flanner Hall resident re· porte(! receiving hares~~ing pl!one calls. 
4:40 Pom• A Saint Mary's College re1li­deot r$ported that her football ticl{ets had been staten out of her p~et while • 
. she was lri Red Field .prlor to the game ·on Saturday. 
8:20 p.m. A Notre Dame student re­
ported the theft of her wallet from a . lockEJT it! Rolf's Aquatic Center. 
8:53 p.m. NQtra Dame Security arrested a Mishawaka man for public intoxi¢atipn, disorderly eonduct, and pq$$ession of marijuana.. The arrest took place at lhe .. J.J\C.C. 
10:01 p;m. A Dillon Hall resident re· ported the theft of his football ti(;kets from his unlocked clomi room. 
Jason Wayne Black 
the ultimate 
babe magnet 
Party on Wayne! 


Love Your B.P. Fan Club 







Film Developing 


2ND SET 
FREE! 
Order standard 3 112• or 4" prints at the regular price and get the Second Set FREE from 11 0, 126, disc or 35mm color print film (C-41 processing, full frame only). 
The HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
Offer Good: September 18-24, 1992 
//Kodak~ 
Colorwatch 

syste~ .· 

Friday, September 18, 1992 

The Observer/Rebecca Boucher 

Economics in the election 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Frank Levy discusses how the economy will play in the upcoming! election. 

Jefferson  


Main & Jefferson Hours Man-Th 11 a.m. -11 p.m. Fri-Sat lla.m. -11 p.m. 
9

NotaFranchise• A Family OwnedBusiness Sun 4 p.m.-p.m 
257 --1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York Pizza 



Calzones• Hot and Cold Subs•Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 



Save SlS() 
a~ear 
Efficiencies now from just $255 1-Bedrooms now from just $270 2-Bedrooms now from just $330 
Just Minutes From Notre Dame! 
Hyou're looking for the ideal off-campus home stop by today and we11 show you beautiful, affordable apartment livingI 

+ Clubhouse & Pool 
• Ar Conditioning 
+ 
Cable TV Available 

+ 
laundry Rooms 


+ Picnic Tables &Grils 
+Gazebo 
• Baskstball &Voleyball Court 
+ 
24-Hour Emergency Maintenance 

+ 
Planned Aclivitils Program 


272-lSS() 



+llCKORij I DlLLAqE 
Conveniently located on Hickory Road, just north of Edison. 
SAV~ A~ A()()ITI()~AL S1 cj! 
Bring this ad when you apply for an apartment and the $15 application fee will be waived. 
Mon.-Fri. 9-7, Sat. 10-4 and Sun. 12-4 The Observer page 5 
Old Post Office chief of staff pleads guilty in House scam 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The highest-ranking official to be indicted in the House Post Of­fice scandal pleaded guilty Thursday in a criminal investi­gation that could target mem­bers of Congress and their campaigns. 
Former post office chief of staff Joanna G. O'Rourke, promising to cooperate with prosecutors, admitted two mis­demeanors: embezzlement of government property and mis­use of government funds by a public officer. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Wendy Wysong told U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson that the government would have proved at trial that O'Rourke conspired to "cash large 
House oks bill to re-regulate cable; Bush planning to veto the measure 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House, responding to consumer complaints about cable television rates and service, to­day approved 280-128 a bill de­signed to hold down costs and encourage competition. 
President Bush said he would veto the measure, which re­quires the Federal Communi­cations Commission to deter­mine "reasonable" rates for basic cable programming and the equipment consumers use to receive it. 
The House vote was a victory for the local broadcast affiliates of ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox and PBS, 
campaign and personal checks." 
The prosecutor's statement made clear, for the first time publicly, that the investigation is looking at possible illegalities in cashing campaign checks at the House Post Office. 
A federal grand jury indict­ment, handed down against O'Rourke last week, was less specific, saying she conspired with others, who were not identified, to "perform personal and campaign services" for House members. 
O'Rourke, 52, at times ap­pearing to choke back tears, answered the judge's questions in a barely audible voice. 
Each of the two misde­meanors carries a maximum penalty of a year in prison and 

Happy 20'h 
Dede! 

Save-That Smooch for One More Year! 

Tournament 
1st Place -Player's Cue 2lli1 & 3m Place ­
which would for the first time have power over cable use of their signals. 
The measure now goes to the Senate, where it could be voted on as early as next week. 
Cable companies operate as monopolies in 99 percent of the communities they serve. Rates have increased in recent years at three times the rate of infla­tion and many customers have complained of rude or lack­adaisical service. 
The bill's sponsor, Rep. Ed­ward Markey, D-Mass., said consumer group studies show the cable industry has over-a $100,000 fine. Sentencing was set for Dec. 9. She was re­leased without having to post bond. 
O'Rourke admitted in the plea that money was made available for the check-cashing service by withholding deposits of post office funds. 
She also admitted using a government express mail ac­count for shipping personal items for herself "as well as personal items that staff mem­bers" for an unidentified con­gressmen "had instructed her to send by express mail." 
The shipments were "in such quantities that the House Post Office staff was instructed to prepare ... pre-printed labels so that labels would be ready at a moment's notice," Wysong said. 
charged customers about $6 billion annually. 
"A vote for the bill has the ef­fect of giving a $6 billion tax cut to Americans across this coun­try," he said. 
But the cable industry, which campaigned heavily against the measure, said in newspaper and cable channel ads that the measure would raise costs that would have to be passed on to consumers. 
And Bush said the legislation puts "burdensome and unnec­essary requirements on the ca­ble industry and the govern­ment agencies that regulate it." 
"My vision for the future of the communications industry is based on the principles of greater competition, en­trepreneurship and less eco­nomic regulation," he said in a letter to House and Senate leaders. "This legislation fails each of these tests and is illus­trative of the congressional mandates and excessive regu­lations that drag our economy down." 
"We created a monster in 1984 and now we are paying the price," said Rep. Christo­pher Shays, R-Conn., in a ref­erence to the year cable was deregulated to help it grow. 
The re-regulation bill would hold monopoly cable companies to Federal Communications Commission rate standards on basic service and foster competition, which is seen as ultimately the best way to control prices. 
The FCC would determine "reasonable" rates and ensure that equipment such as con­verter boxes and remote control devices are not too costly. 
The FCC also would set ser­vice standards to protect against chronic outages and guarantee that customers get quick telephone response to questions about billing, refunds and service problems. 
SURVEY RESEARCH TECHNICIANS 

Flexible ..:hedules available fer "The_ bc:sc and brichten." Able lO wOI"Ir. 4PM • 10PM or.S:JO PM-10:30 PM durin&: !be week and EmlER 9AM. JPM cr J:JO • 9-.JOPM on Sewrday OR HAM •SPM or S:JOPM to 9:30PM on Sunday to-~ survey nscarch lntaviewinc. c.ocl!nc_ aN! d.ta enay In our crowinc SoUth Bead Raearch Operations Cenotr. Excellent compenalion and worltm, c:oaditiona. PC experience desired. T · requUed. Send resume or letter o~eresc [0: Market Sttateeies, 108 N. Main, Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 cr call 219­233-3454 for apPOincmenL 
ALSO lURING WEEKENDS ONLY 

Tracks Gift Certificates Sept. 21 & 22 Gorch Game Room $5 entry fee 
Sign up deadline: Sept. 20 at 1:00 p.m. 
page 6 The Observer Friday, September 18, 1992 
Bush administration: Currency turmoil won't hurt us 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Bush administration insisted Thursday that the turmoil in European currency markets should be short-lived with no adverse impact on the U.S. economy. 
But the head of the Interna­tional Monetary Fund indicated that, unless countries move quickly to address underlying economic problems, more un­pleasant shocks could be in store. 
IMF Managing_ Dir.ector Michel Camdessus and Treasury Undersecretary David Mulford, the administration's top expert on international economics, said they believed currency markets were calming down after two days of turmoil. 
Mulford blamed the turbu­lence on market worries over Sunday's vote in France on a treaty to forge closer economic and political ties among the na­tions of Europe. 
Somalilan warlord oks Marine deployment 
MOGADISHU, Somalia {AP)­A spokesman for Somalia's main warlord said today that he does not object to the United States deploying 2,400 Marines to provide support for U.N. troops being dispatched to guard food for starving Somalis. 
The Marine amphibious group is expected to arrive within a few days on four war­ships that will sit in the Indian Ocean off Somalia's coast. 
The Marines will support U.S. airlift operations of U.N. troops to Mogadishu. 
The 500 U.N. troops, 60 of whom arrived earlier this week, are to protect humanitarian aid shipments and workers in this devastated capital. The United States is transporting them from Pakistan. 
The main task of the U.N. force \\'ill be to secure Mo­gadishu's port, through which the bulk of relief food moves. The port frequently has been shut down by bandits and gun battles among rival clans. The 
U.N. troops also will provide airport security. 
More than 100,000 Somalis already have died from drought and warfare. The United Na­tions estimates that another 2 million are at risk of starvation. 
Abdul Karim Ahmed Ali, the secretary-general of a militia loyal to warlord Mohamed Far­rah Aidid, said he initially had reservations about the plan. 
But he said his fears were al­layed after he heard U.N. spe­cial envoy Mohamed Sahnoun say in a radio interview that the American naval task force was unrelated to U.N. efforts in So­malia and represented normal support for operations involving the U.S. military. 
"We have no objection to their presence," said Abdul Karim. 
He reiterated a stand regu­larly taken by Aidid that the 
militia will not allow foreign in­tervention in Somali affairs. But "we doubt that the U.S. would do that," he said. 
Aidid reluctantly agreed to allow the 500 U.N. troops in Mogadishu after negotiations with Sahnoun, buf has resisted 
U.N. plans to send an additional 3,000 troops. 
Aidid controls Mogadishu's south and some of its central regions. But he failed to consol­idate a hold over the capital in a vicious four-month battle with his main rival, Ali Mahdi Mo­hamed, in which more than 30,000 people were killed or wounded. 
Aid workers blame Aidid's forces for much of the widespread banditry and loot­ing that is hurting efforts to feed Somalia's starving. Some aid officials estimate that as much as half of all the food de­livered to Somalia this year has been stolen. 
Meanwhile, the U.N. World Food Program continued its air­lift of food to remote villages. The U.N. is using the airdrops to keep villagers from migrating to urban areas already crowded with hungry refugees. 
Ten tons of maize meal were delivered today to Uegit, 180 miles northwest of Mogadishu. Another 10 tons were to be de­livered Friday to Sacowein, 186 miles west of the capital. 
The Rome-based agency has been air-dropping food to the villages since Sunday. 
Although the international community responded late to Somalia's plight, in recent weeks Canada, the United States, France, Germany and the Lutheran World Federation have provided airlifts to move food for various humanitarian agencies working in the Horn of African nation. 

r-----------------------,
1 Colonial Pancake House 1 
September I I 
: Apple Pancake : 
Special: I I 
I SAVE $1.00 off I 
I I
Thick Sliced L-------~xp~!~2~3_______J 
1r-----------------------,
Cinnamon Colonial Pancake House 1 
I I 
French Toast : Any Omelette : 
I I 
$.50 off I : SAVE $1.00 off I I 
1 exp. 10/30/92 I
all month 

L-----------------------~ 
U.S. 3l(Dixieway) North in Roseland 
no coupon needed 

(Across from Holiday Inn) 272-7433
Open at 6:00 a.m. daily 
Just North of Campus 

Mulford said that so far there has been no adverse ·impact on the U.S. economy from the wide swings in European currencies. He said that, with market stability returning, he believed there was a "minimum of risk" of a shock to U.S. markets. 
He noted that the dollar, which had hit record lows against the German mark last month, has actually strength­ened during the turmoil as in­vestors sought a safe haven. 
In a separate meeting with 
reporters, Camdessus praised the quick actions taken by Bri­tish, Italian and Spanish offi­cials to deal with severe down­ward pressures on their cur­rencies. 
But Camdessus warned that the success of the emergency responses should not cause world finance officials to lose sight of the urgent need to deal with the underlying problems of the world economy. 
He singled out the need for many governments to get con­trol of runaway budget deficits. While he did not specifically mention the U.S. budget deficit, an IMF report released Wednesday aimed some excep­tionally pointed criticism at U.S. failures in this area. 
Economists have long com­plained that the huge U.S. deficit was harming world growth prospects by siphoning off scarce capital and keeping global interest rates higher than they otherwise would be. 
United Nations relief flights gaining greater access to needy Sudanese 
NAIROBI, Kenya (AP) ­The United Nations said Thursday that it had con­vinced the Sudanese gov­ernment to allow an in­crease in relief flights to bring food to needy Su­danese isolated by a civil war. 
U.N. 
negotiators in Khar­toum, the Sudanese capital, persuaded the government of President Omar Hassan el-Bashir to permit relief flights to 21 towns in the embattled south, where an estimated 3.7 million people are in need of assistance, of­ficials said. 

Thomas Ekvall, director of 


U.N. 
Operation Lifeline Su­dan offices in Nairobi, said he hoped the agency could 


SUPPORT 
RfSfARCH. 
It Works Wonders. 

~ 
VAmerican Heart Association 
begin flying to the new des­tinations next week to begin assessing the condition and needs of the people there. 
Ekvall said some of the re­opened areas have not been visited by relief agencies for months. 
U.N. Undersecretary-Gen­eral Jan Eliasson, who led the talks in Khartoum, said the government agreed to let U.N. officials visit the Nuba region, 750 miles south of Khartoum, and other areas previously off limits. 
He said rebel officials, in talks in the Kenyan capital, "made it clear they saw the value of U.N. efforts." He did not say whether the rebels guaranteed the safety of re­lief flights into Sudan's con­tested south. 
U.N. officials also were working with the govern­ment and rebels to open new corridors through which to move relief supplies by boat, truck and rail. 
This year, intensified fight­ing and lack of cooperation from government and rebel forces have forced a sharp cutback in relief missions to the south. 
The International Commit­tee of the Red Cross halted its relief flights in February, and overland efforts were suspended several months later after the government accused the agency of coop­erating with the insurgents. 
J.A.C. C. Ice Rink 
Weekday Schedule Beginning Sept, 19• 
Free Skating MWF Noon-1 p.m. Student/Faculty/Staff Hockey Tih Noon-1 p.m. Faculty/Staff 
Rental Skates $1/pr Skate Sharpening $3/pr 

'. .) ' ..,

Friday, September 18, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Serbs open a new offensive 
SARAJEVO. Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Bosnian troops were rushed to western sub­urbs Thursday as the Serbs opened a new offensive that the 
U.N. commander characterized as an attempt to grab territory before peace talks open Friday. 
Sarajevo radio said Thursday night the Serbs used more than 20 tanks and armored person­nel carriers in the drive, but claimed it was halted by Bosnian government forces in the district of Stup outside the capital. It cited the Bosnian armed forces headquarters as its source. 
No independent confirmation 
r 
was possible. 
The increasingly isolated Bosnian government meanwhile rejected a Serb proposal to use the talks opening in Geneva as a forum to start dividing the republic into ethnic regions. 
All available officers and troops of the Muslim-led gov­ernment had been sent to rein­force Stup and Azici after Serb rebels launched a fierce attack with tank guns, artillery and mortars. 
Although fighting was intense, Gen. Hussein Aly Abdel Razek, the Egyptian commander of 
U.N. forces in Bosnia, saw it as 
-

part of a "war of attrition" in the capital that neither side had much chance of winning. 
"They are going to the Geneva talks, and they are going with some cards in their pockets," he said. 
Although the battles were vir­tually next door to the airport, Abdel Razek said a U.N. relief plane would fly into Sarajevo as a test and, if it went well, aid flights to the capital could re­sume next week. He set no time for the test flight. 
Humanitarian flights were halted Sept. 3 when an Italian plane was shot down on an aid mission. 

par Weinberger, former CIA spy chief Clair George and retired CIA official Duane Clarridge. 
Walsh's probe began in De­cember 1986 and resulted in the convictions of former na­tional security adviser John 
NOW IT'S JON'S 21ST! 
I TheFastBreakfast ( 
/ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY FLIGGY! From the Dawgs and numerous
~ That'sNotFastFood. 
women of NO &SMC
~HON[V'<:. Ali·Yoo.·Ca~t·~·&t \ 
Tremendous variety.

IGreat value. 
~ 
jCJ ICJB~k~~t1ar 1... 1~ -:--Wr-:.~·~U~ 
"r---"1()C·==;y~ f{
I,__) _) _ 
.. ~-CCC 
Quick, friendly ~· 
table service. 


The Observer/Rebecca Boucher 

Speaking her mind 
In her lecture yesterday, Micaela di Leonardo focused on her belief that how society and the media suit the white middle-class male. 
Poindexter and former White House aide Oliver North. 
But a federal appeals court reversed or set aside those convictions, and all charges against North were eventually dismissed. Walsh said that in addition to the trials already scheduled, he will seek Supreme Court review of Poindexter's five convictions "in the next few weeks." 
Walsh told The Washington Post in an interview published today that "if something comes up at the trials, and it always has, that could make us go back to work." 
He said in the interview that "the passage of time has been a real detriment to sharpening the investigation." 
Stop Smoking. 
American Heart Association 


----~ '\.~·''.
1 Breakfast Bar always ~ '\.\ · ·1 
Eucharistic Ministe'rs 
l 
hot and ready. · ~--..... '0 ·-.......... C1 ~ I ·, '-.._~ r~ } 
Workshop
0. '' / j}~ 

1 Regular breakfast menu \: ~' v=--"13 (/......._ I ~'-~'lj
I 
,[w ,,i[,b[e '\\~~j 
. ~/

Kids under five eat free \ • / from Breakfast Bar, with each ( ~\\ adult meal purchase. ~ 
$2.99 

Available Monday-Friday only at participating restaurants. 

Sunday, September 20, 2:30 pm
Except holidays. 

Tuesday, September 22, 10:00 pm Basilica of Sacred Heart 
.SH.!!YS ·~·== } I 
1 I
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 
•

"---...______------------.. _____......,-) 


page 8 The Observer Ffiday,'Septeml:)e(f8, f99~ 
Astronauts marvel over tadpoles in space, watch hornets, and wait for eggs 

Psychiatrist accused of sex with patient offers to quit 
BOSTON (AP) -A psychia­trist accused of having illicit relations with a Harvard Medi­cal School student who later committed suicide gave up her medical license Thursday. But a state medical board said the resignation wasn't valid and the case still would go before a hearing next week. 
Dr. Margaret Bean-Bayog, 49, who has denied all allegations of impropriety, said she was giving up her medical license rather than endure more attacks. 
"To avoid this assault, I real­ize that I am electing an out­come that is far more severe than would ever have been im­posed on me through a hearing process," Bean-Bayog wrote to the state Board of Registration in Medicine. 
Even without a medical li­cense, Bean-Bayog could con­tinue work as a psychotherapist but couldn't prescribe medicine. 
But after meeting Thursday night, state officials issued a statement saying the medical board "does not believe that a valid resignation has been filed with it. .. 
Bean-Bayog's attorney, Michael Blau, had written a separate letter asking the board to either accept the resignation or resolve the case without a hearing. 
The state is scheduled to take public testimony beginning Monday about the relationship between Bean-Bayog and her patient, Paul Lozano, 28, who died in April 1991 after inject­ing himself more than 70 times with cocaine. 
The board had accused Bean­Bayog of providing psychiatric treatment that didn't conform to medical standards. 
Bean-Bayog treated Lozano from 1986 to 1990. She said in court papers that Lozano was 
REDUCE REUSE RECYCLE. 
so mentally ill many other doc­tors wouldn't treat him. The man was suicidal, abused alco­hol and drugs, told lies and harbored violent, even homici­dal, thoughts, she said. 
But his family, which has sued Bean-Bayog separately from the state action. told of a promising young man destroyed by a psychiatrist who forced him to act like her baby, sexually seduced him during treatment and left him so de­pressed he killed himself. 
Lozano's sister, Pilar Williams, said, "We hold her completely responsible for his death." 
Bean-Bayog, a Harvard fac­ulty member nationally known for her work on substance abuse, says she tried conven­tional psychotherapy without success. She then used a tech­nique, known as regression therapy, in which she assumed the role of a mother. She said Lozano told her he was com­forted by the idea of a "non­abusive mom." 
Fast • Hot 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Endeavour's astronauts pro­vided relief to hornets inside excessively humid containers Tuesday and marveled over the weightless aquatics of wriggling tadpoles. 
They also eagerly awaited the results of their own frog-fertiliz­ing efforts. 
Scientists expect the eggs of the shuttle's quarter-pound, brownish-green passengers ­South African clawed frogs -to hatch by Wednesday afternoon. The crew collected eggs from all four frogs early in the flight and squirted the eggs of two frogs with sperm. 
Until this shuttle mission, no creature, other than an insect, had been fertilized in space and also reproduced in space. 
The female frogs were taking it easy after a busy few days. 
"They're just stretching out and relaxing and enjoying the flight," said Paul Callahan, chief of the science operations branch at NASA's Ames Re­search Center in Mountain View, Calif. "They've earned their retirement." 
The translucent tadpoles were fertilized on the ground a day before the laboratory re­search mission began Saturday and they developed in orbit. On Tuesday, they darted, swam rapidly in circles or floated, tails wriggling, inside two flasks. 
Ames researcher Ken Souza was surprised by the flurry of activity, which bore no resem­blance to tadpole action on Earth. He expected the tadpoles to remain still or do forward flips, based on tests conducted in planes that provide brief bursts of weightlessness. 
"They were swimming in backward somersaults, forward somersaults," he said. "Some froze. Some swam normally. We had a real hodgepodge of swimming behavior from these tads, and that was really unexpected." 
There were heavy casualties, though. Five of six frog embryos in one of the two flasks failed to 
develop, possibly because of the laboratory's warmth, Souza said. But the other flask, which contained tadpoles that were a day older, had at least five sur­vivors out of six. 
Meantime, Israeli entomolo­gist Jacob Ishay decided the humidity inside his hornet con­tainers was too high. He sent 180 Oriental hornets aboard Endeavour. Shuttle commander Robert "Hoot" Gibson and pilot Curtis Brown Jr., the hornet keeper, attached the hose and fan of a flight suit to the hornet compartment. The fan blew dry air through; the humidity inside gradually dropped as the odor of hornets filled the mid-deck. 
In video beamed down to Earth, the black and yellow hornets tumbled around in small containers amid floating chunks of food and shreds of cardboard, provided as nest­building material. But there was no evidence any combs were being built. 
"Actually, there's no evidence of any kind of organized work at all," Brown reported. 
IBce ~ v<O>RUJlmtfcceerr ®]p)CQ>mlS<O>Ir ifCQ>rr CCOJrrn.fffirrm~tlicorm COJir IRCITA2 
TI1is year, some ofyour peers, maybe even afriendor someone you know from down the hall will want to be Confirmed or to become C.et'b;oi!c through the RCIA. The way it works is. we all learn together from each other ... you, as a sponsor, would answer questions ( ? ) but you'd probably discover that you had some questions too. Which would be a good thing. 
RCIA: for students who wish to become Catholic Christians Confinnation: for BaptiZed Catholics who wish to receive the Sacrament of Confirmation 
Sponsor Infonnation Meetings Sunday, September 20, 1992 
4:00 -volunteers for RCIA S:OO -volunteers for Confirmation 
Notre Dame Room, LaForttcne Stttdent Center 
F'o~ fwt.'ler tnformauon. stop by or call Kate Barrett. Badin Campus Mlnl.stry Office 239-524.2 
• Perfect 

Serving Notre Dame, St. Mary's & South Bend area r ----;L---, r ----;L---, ILAT-ENiGHYsP'EciALI
1 1-14 arge 1 1 2-14 arge 1 1 9p.m.-close 1 
I 1 Topping I I 1 Topping I I 1-14" Large I I p· I I p· I I 1 Topping I
tzza tzza p·
1 1 1 1 1 1 
$625. $l02S. 
lZZa 

: +Tax : : +A: : $522 ·T·-...: 
Addi<ional Topplnao .9.S, eoch ~ Addi<ional Topplnao .9s, eoch Acldi<ional Topplnao .9.S, each
._. _______ _. ... _______ _. ... _______ _.
I No< Valid Wi<h Any O<her Coopon I I No< Valid Wi<h Any O<her Coupon I I No< Valid Wi<h Any O<her Coopon I 

HOURS 
M-Th -11:00am -1:00am Fri-Sat -11 :OOam -3:00am Sun-Noon-1:00am 


-----------~-~-,--~­
'. ll r.• 

Friday, -September 18, -1992· The Observer page 9 
Board seeks reasons for a crash in Hawaii 
WAILUKU, Hawaii (AP) -In­vestigators from the National Transportation Safety Board arrived Thursday and began trying to learn what caused a tour helicopter to crash into a mountainside, killing all seven people aboard. 
The accident Wednesday on Haleakala mountain was the worst copter crash in recent memory in Hawaii, federal of­ficials said. Killed was the air­craft's 44-year-old pilot, Peter Middleton, and six out-of-state visitors whose names were not immediately released. 
The French-made craft, op­erated by Hawaii Helicopters, went down in Waiopai Gulch, on the island of Maui, on the 10,000-foot mountain's south­ern side. 
Rescuers who recovered the bodies said debris was scat­tered for 200 feet around the site and the victims had all been flung from the aircraft. 
"It looked like, from the way the debris was spread, that he 
Don't drink and drive ... Arrive alive. 
....------------------------, 
Happy 21s, Sean! 
Way To Go! 
Love 
Mom, Dad, Pa & Shad, Jer, Kev-Guy & Cath 


flew into the side of the gulch," said Lt. George Ka­hoohanohano, head of the po­lice-fire recovery team. 
Federal Aviation Administra­tion officials seized the com­pany's records, and they were to be turned over to a National Transportation Safety Board investigator, said FAA spokesman Pete Beckner. 
It wasn't immediately known if weather played a role in the accident, Beckner said. All of Hawaii's islands were under a flash flood watch at the time because of heavy rain and thundershowers. 
The pilot, who had flown sev­eral flights earlier in the day, had never had an accident in 23 years of flying, said Hawaii Helicopters co-owner Don Bal­lard. 
The crash was the first major accident in the company's seven-year history, said Hawaii Helicopters employee Hillary Palmer. 

CHICAGO (AP) -The corn fields of the Midwest have be­come mine fields for the Bush 
re-election campaign, which is struggling to address the No. 1 Corn Belt farm issue -a pro­posed federal rule that would limit ethanol use. 
The science of the issue is disputed, but the politics is clear: The rule as proposed would hurt corn farmers, whose grain is used in the fuel. And that could cost Bush im­portant rural votes in the elec­toral battlegrounds of Illinois, Ohio, Michigan and Missouri. 
"It's the first time that I can remember when farmers have become one-issue voters," said Ray LaHood, chief of staff to House Minority Leader Robert 
Michel, R-Illinois. "It:~ a big, big political prob­lem . 
The problem is the U.S. Envi­ronmental Protection Agency's interpretation of the new Clean Air Act, which re<juires the na­tion's dirtiest cities to reduce pollution through the use of al­ternative fuels. 
A mix of corn-based ethanol and gasoline reduces carbon monoxide emissions. But ethanol also makes gasoline more volatile, releasing vapors that can cause pollution prob­lems during hot weather, the EPA says. 
So the EPA proposes restrict­ing ethanol use in nine urban areas where smog is the worst. Those include Chicago and­other major cities where most ethanol-blended gas is sold. Other cities could choose to be included under the rule. 
Farm groups who thought they had secured ethanol's fu­ture during negotiations on the act last year were enraged by the proposal and have re­sponded with rallies and heavy lobbying for an exemption. But the EPA has stood by its inter­pretation, supported by envi­ronmentalists and the oil indus­try. 
R U Stuck Here While The llirfi~Ihl Duel It Out At Michigan State? 
Well then come to the COCKPIT!!! Located in the Basement of Flanner Tower. Come see the Irish on a 
LARGE SCREEN TV. 
The COCKPIT also has great things to eat, like Pizza, Hot Dogs, Nachos, Hot Pretzels, Subs, and a whole lot more. So GO IRISH and see you in the COCKPIT, as we take off to victory!HH 
Get a Double Pepperoni 16" Pizza and Two 44 oz. Pepsi's for only $8.00 
GOOD WHILE SUPPLIES LAST NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER GOOD ONLY FOR SEPTEMBER 19Jb THE COCKPIT 283-2705 
"Suddenly our diamond in the rough doesn't look so good now," said Paul Compton, a farmer and a regional repre­sentative for the Illinois Corn Growers Association in central Illinois. 
Despite their efforts, farmers apparently didn't catch Bush's attention until he came to the Illinois State Fair in August. Since a private discussion there with farmers, the White House has been struggling to come up with a plan that will please farmers, oil interests and envi­ronmentalists. 
"The administration is com­mitted to resolving this matter that ensures that ethanol is competitive," Judy Smith, a spokeswoman for the President said in a telephone interview Thursday from Washington. 
Nowhere is the issue more clear for farmers and Bush op­eratives than in Illinois -the nation's top producer of corn and ethanol. 
Illinois accounts for about 60 percent of the 1 billion-gallon­a-year ethanol market. That translates to about 230 million bushels of corn in Illinois -17 percent of the state's 1.3 billion bushel corn crop, according to the Illinois Corn Growers As­sociation. 

0 Are 18 or older 0 Hold a valid driver's lirense 0 Have an insured automobile 0 Have agood driving moord 0 Are liiendly, enthusia<itic & energetic 
£""•-~-·--·-­L~~~··· ~ --·~.-... ~:.~~~ .. :~!~ 
l!k~a· 
:Out®.· 
----·.-··~·--...........-. 
r

-DELIVERY
l.-------··----~-------.·..--.. 
We offer you: 
0Greatpay
0 FMroble hours 

0 Free meak & unibms 
0 Awards for~ dri\ing
0 Clean & li:imdly wodplare
0 Challenging. fun work 
0 Pay increases twire ayear 
~ Opportunity to pw-chase PepsiGJ stock 
~ Oiild care d&xlunts 
~Credit union 

~ Great career opportunities 
~ Reimbursement allowance (.1()c p<:r .~up} 
~Paid vacation• 

~ MedicaL'Life benefits* 
~ SharePower buying options* 
• Nol e/Jt.'Ctivc fir"ii da_,. ofemplo_lnlcnf 
YOU DO BELONG W!TH THE BEST! 
STOP BY OR CALL YOUR LOCAL PIZZA HlT TO SIT ll' A.I-.J !NfERVIEW TODAY. 

---~---~-------~----~ 
----~-l 
Friday, September 18, 1992

page 10 The Observer 
ELECTION '92 
Bus inton wants government to mimic European welfare state 
ENID, Okla. (AP) -President Bush said Thursday that Bill Clinton wants to reorder social and economic priorities to make America another Euro­pean-styled welfare state. 
"This is the most fundamental disagreement between us," Bush said -whether "the driving engine of growth" is to be government intervention or the efforts of private business­men to get ahead. 
"He wants to increase gov­ernment's share of the wealth and I want to decrease it," Bush said. 
Clinton's communications di­rector, George Stephanopoulos, scoffed at Bush's line of attack, saying "the more he falls (in the polls) the stranger his rhetoric gets." 
Clinton chides Bush for threat to veto leave, borrows president's 'family values' 
DENVER (AP) -Bill Clinton chided President Bush on Thursday for threatening to veto the family leave bill, calling it an example of how the Republicans were reluctant to have America catch up with the world. 
"I believe in personal re­sponsibility, empowerment and family values," Clinton said, borrowing some of Bush's fa­vorite rhetoric as he cam­paigned in a state traditionally in the GOP column but com­petitive this year. 
"Let's join the ranks of the 72 countries in the world that give working people a little time off when there's a baby born or a sick parent," he said to a crowd of upwards of 10,000 that greeted him in a downtown park. 
The bill passed by Congress would require employers with more than 50 workers to allow employees up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave annually to deal with medical emergencies, in­cluding the birth of a child, adoption or a sickness in the family. 
Bush has proposed an alter­native that would grant a tax write-off, costing $500 million, to certain businesses that im­plement voluntary family leave programs. It would allow firms with fewer than 500 workers to write off up to $20 per day. for as many as 60 days of leave a 
Public Skating 
this weekend at the ]ACC Ice Rink 
Friday, Sept. 18th-8-10:15 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 19th-2:30-4:30 p.m. 8-10:15 p.m. Sunday, Sept. 20th-2:30-4:30 p.m. 
NDISMC Students/Faculty & Staff-$1 Adults-$3 17 and under-$2 Rental Skates-$1/pair Skate Sharpening-$3/pair 
"Bill Clinton is calling for ed­ucation and training, bringing health care costs down, provid­ing affordable health care for everyone and investing in new jobs and technologies," Stephanopoulos said. "That sounds a lot more like the American way than what we've had under Bush -fewer jobs, higher taxes, higher govern­ment spending and higher unemployment." 
Bush sounded his warning in campaign stops in Oklahoma and Georgia. On a sunny day, thousands of people lined the streets in the farm community of Enid, Okla.• to cheer him as he walked in a parade-like at­mosphere through the down­town. He spoke to a packed house in the towns convention 
year per worker, or a maximum of $1,200 per employee. 
Meanwhile Thursday, Clinton repeatedly refused to respond to questions shouted by re­porters about his draft records. 
A retired colonel who headed the University of Arkansas ROTC program in 1969 re­leased a statement Wednesday saying he believed Clinton de­ceived him back then in order to avoid being drafted. 
The affidavit by Col. Eugene Holmes seemed to contradict Holmes' own statements back in 1978, when he praised Clin­ton. 
Bush spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said of the new 
Happy Birthday Greg M. tlineteen . on the tlineteenth 
From Mom. Dad. Anne. Bob. and John 
center. 
Bush's stewardship over the weakest economy since World War II is the central issue in Clinton's campaign and the top concern of Americans, as re­flected in the polls. 
The President is plagued by a soaring national debt, more business failures and fewer jobs created than at any time since the war. 
"Cheer up, we're going to win, don't worry about it," Bush shouted to reporters as he arrived in Georgia at the Hartsfield -Atlanta airport. 
He was greeted by a front­page story in The Atlanta Jour­nal saying 3,000 people had flooded a local employment of­fice to apply for 20 temporary jobs at a Ford plant. 
statement. "I think that's a letter that every American should read because it goes to the heart of why Bill Clinton should not be President of the United States." 
On Capitol Hill, a group of Re­publican members of Congress, all military veterans, denounced Clinton. "Even those who went to Canada showed more backbone than Governor Clinton," declared Rep. Tom Ridge, R-Pa. 
On a day when Bush was making unflattering compar­isons with Clinton, the Demo­crat responded by saying it was time for America to have someone different. 

Candidates contrast ideas .on..American economics 
_ "I've called· adding sunset ·· provi~iMs. t() alL new regulations,.. Bush said. He al~o called an~w for clHtnges ip. the na,U0n~s __ system ofdvil htw,.He has stro}lgly supported _-an ins1irance il1dustry~ backed 
-. ptod,qctUa-bility···hill.that. · ·wl)uld limit_ d~mages f()r•• .vtcttms of defective prod• · 
proVide-~bern.-with {)Otqlfl~~n:satiiqcn if fu~y. wett) thhViaii~-~'--the Murts 

sam &joe... not responsible. not insane. 
IOHN DOE • ADAM HOROVITZ 
-~~ 
F£AllR1\G UAVID CARRADI:-IE BILL COBBS JOHN CUSACK ARLO GUTHRIE TIMOTHY LEARY 
F 
FiNELINE 

[]01 Dlll.8YI11AEO I OI<~M 140110\ ~ffiRE SOI.'Oli\CUV<Il<!l["' VANGUARD.;;. FEATURE 5 
~A OAVtnt.c-c.,o\la.,.a.....~ ,.. 41...-•-~-c
RECORDSCASSETrES.\\OCOIAPAClOISCS 
Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
CinEmR RT THE SniTE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 ' 9:45 
YOUR EDUCATION IS ALREADY STARTING TO PAYOH 

September Sl0-30, J992 Shampoo, HaJrcut and Style, $4.00 off. 

Viewpoint 
Friday, September 18, 1992 Page 11 
The Observer P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley News Editor ..•.•...•..........•.. David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .••••••........... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ....•........ Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged.  1·800-NEW LIPS .Ht li\\ GEORClE!f~ Ill BE 5fANDI~ BY TO TAKE )OUR CAll!  


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Vietnam War protestors were also fighting 'evil' 
Dear Editor: 
I was outside Stepan Center during the Clinton speech pass­ing out the "Open Letter to Gov. Bill Clinton" brochures. 
I do not know exactly what kind of pro-life protest occured inside, but I did witness some students rebuking those who made the protests. They argued that their behavior was very 
inappropriate for a political 
speech. 
The best way I found to relatfl 
to these arguments was to think 
of my experiences during the 
Vietnam protests in the 60's in 
Madison, near where I grew up. 
I don't remember hearing or .witnessing fellow students 
complaining about the 
unethical nature of their 
protests. And this was inspite of 
the fact that their protests were 
much "ruder" than those of the 
pro-lifers. 
Is this because the Vietnam 
War was more evil than our 
abortion situation? Not 
necessarily so. It was politically 
correct and popular to be a 
Vietnam protester in Madison during the 60's. 
Vietnam protesters seemed to have a right to be rude because the Vietnam war was seen as such a great evil. 
The whole point of the pro­life protest is that, according to their Catholic understanding, Clinton's position on abortion is extremely evil. 
One of the posters explained this view. In big letters it quoted a Catholic publisher's answer to the question of whether it would be a sin to vote for Clinton. 
"Since Governor Clinton is adamantly pro-abortion and supports the so-called Freedom of Choice Act that would allow unrestricted abortion on de­mand in the U.S., any Catholic knowing this and yet who votes for him in November is guilty of an objectively gr·ave immoral action." 
Peter Helland 
Class of 1978 
Alumni for Life 
South Bend, IN 
Sept. 16, 1992 


DOONESBURY 
Dear Editor: 
Maybe this is picky, but it's bothered me for two days, so I'm writing you about it. In an otherwise very nice article in the Sept. 14 edition of The Ob­server, describing a panel dis­cussion on "The American Po­litical Process" held last Friday, I was quoted as saying some­thing to the effect that the gov­ernment has no obligation to help poor people. I would not say this and on Friday did not. 
In a document given to the panelists in advance, we were told some of the questions we would be asked. One to be ad­dressed to me pointed out that of all those people now living below the poverty line in our country, 40 percent are children and 11 percent are elderly. 
The question then stated was "Does the government have an obligation to help these people?" In the discussion itself I was asked whether "we" have such an obligation, but in the context of talking of government activities. I said I think we do. 

I then pointed out that, as a philosopher, I believe that moral obligations attach primarily to people, so a re­sounding "Yes!" If asked whether we have a moral obli­gation to use governmental structures to do so, I explained that if this is the best way, I be­lieve the answer is again "yes." 
Further, I added that in view of how deeply imbedded in our social structures poverty now is, it is very hard for me to con­ceive of how we can, at the pre­sent time, satisfy our moral du­ties without making use of our powerful governmental institu­tions. 
And, of course, all this adds up to something very different from the impression a reader of the Sept. 14 edition of The Observer might have formed. 
You made me sound like a "no government is good gov­ernment" kind of guy. As real­istic as I am nowadays about human nature and human in­stitutions, that's not me. And that's not a philosophy I'd like to be thought of as espousing. Thanks for the opportunity to clear this up. 
Thomas V. Morris Professor of Philosophy Sept. 16, 1992 
Vandalism at library is senseless, infuriating 
nage for the library during the were found in the stacks with past year. the pages torn out, nothing left 
It would seem to me that but the covers. anyone intelligent enough to be Is anyone else as angry about accepted at Notre Dame would this as I am? realize that such an act of senseless vandalism goes Gloria G. Cudney beyond a juvenile prank! Cataloging Department 
That same day three books Sept. 11, 1992 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'Truth is tough. It will not break 
! 
J
like a bubble at a touch .. Nay, 
:
·~ 

l• ~ '
you may kick it about a;day,_ like a football, and it Will be round and full at evening.' 
Oliver Wendell Holmes 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Dear Editor: 
Yesterday, Thursday, Sept. 10, I noticed that a new plastic enclosed "permanent" floor di­rectory was torn off the wall of one of the elevatot:s in the Res­burgh Library. 
A lot of time, energy, and money was spent on new sig­



SEPTEMBER 18-20 
weekend calendar 
f 


MUSIC 

Access Denied, Bridget's, 10 p.m. Sea of Words, Club 23, 10 p.m. The Edge, Twist and Shout, 9:30p.m. 
EVENTS 

ISO picnic, Holy Cross field, 4:30 p.m. 

ay 
MUSIC 

Sea of Words, Club 23, 1 0 p.m. The Edge, Twist and Shout, 9:30 p.m. BTO concert, Covaleski Stadium, gates open at 6 p.m. 
(tickets $8 at Lafortune, $10 at gate) 
EVENTS 

Notre Dame vs. Michigan State, Spartan Stadium, 3:30p.m. EDT 
s 
MUSIC 

Ferguson, Zhang/Kulosa trio, The Little Theatre, Saint Mary's, 2:30 p.m. 
FRIDAY 

Roadside Prophets, Snite Museum, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. Final Analysis, Cushing Auditorium 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST Sneakers, 7 & 9:40 p.m. Honeymoon in Vegas, 7:20 & 9:20p.m. Hell Raiser Ill, 7:1 0 & 9:10 p.m. A League of Their Own, 7 & 9:30 p.m. Howard's End, 8 p.m Death Becomes Her, 7:40 & 9:50 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST Pet Cemetary Two, 7:40 & 9:45 p.m. Captain Ron, 7:45 & 9:50 p.m. Wind, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 

Roadside Prophets, Snite Museum, 7:30 & 9:45p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST & WEST See Friday's schedule 
atch tht 
University welcomes visiton 
to attractive campus 
M 
By JOE MONAHAN organizations. There are also Stadium to the Munn Ice Ar Accent writer jazz groups, the Spartan which seats 6,170 to the Fu marching band, student Akers Golf Courses, wl ore than 40,000 orchestras, and a host of feature an 18-1 students attend MSU, professional organizations use­championship course am making it Michigan's ful in career development. 18-hole regular course. ~ largest university and The campus is spread out also provides a wide progrru the fourth largest single campus over 5,000 acres of grass, trees, intramural sports for university in the nation, ranking flowering plants, verdant fields students to keep them physi behind the University of and gently rolling hills. Some active and in shape. Minnesota, Ohio State Univer­2,100 acres of this total are in MSU football does ha· sity, and the University of Texas­existing or planned campus storied tradition, even the Austin in size. Women enjoy a development; the remaining their recent record mighl slight lead over men in the 3,000 acres are devoted to reflect this. From the Rose: gender ratio, with 21,449 experimental farms, outlying and National Champion females and 20,639 males en­research facilities, and nature teams of the 1960's, to thi rolled for the 1991 fall term. areas. There are 33 miles of Ten Champions of the 197( 
Nearly seventeen of the forty­roadways, 99 miles of walk­the Rose Bowl ChampioJ thousand students live in on­ways, and 12 miles of bicycle 1988, MSU football has a] campus residence halls, and an paths to assist you in enjoying been a force in the nati 
additional 2,284 furnished MSU's campus. scene. apartments are provided by the The 76,000-seat capaci university for its students. MSU Michigan State University, Spartan Stadium has ! operates the largest residence which was founded in 1855 and surpassed on 61 occasions, hall system in the U.S. with 27 originally concentrated on farm the top draw being the 8( on-campus residence halls science, now has a curriculum attracted to the 1990 N (some of which are COED}. which includes more than 200 Dame contest. Playing in th 
In addition to student rooms programs of undergraduate and 10 conference allows MS and dining facilities, residence graduate studies all divided into annually host teams halls contain formal and 14 degree-granting colleges. Michigan, Ohio State, Iowa informal lounges, study and The Greek system at MSU is Penn State. Non-confer music rooms, classrooms, quite strong, with roughly 11% foes in the past have incl faculty offices, and laboratories. of the student body involved. Miami(FL), Notre Dame, S 
There are 17 sororities and 31 ern Cal and Florida State. 
More than 350 campus or­fraternities, all national (for So for those who flock to ganizations are available to non-Greeks, that means that Saturday, be sure to chec MSU students. The mix of clubs they' are important, not just the wonderful 5,000-plus includes intramural sports and local frat houses with no campus that is 'home' to recreation, social service and purpose to existing). students. volunteer programs, programs MSU fields men's varsity After all, there are over · for ethnic interest, political squads in 14 intercollegiate kinds of trees, shrubs, and organizations, publications, sports, and has 11 varsity sports available in several ca1 student radio stations, theater for women. Facilities range plantings for you to exa productions, and religious from the 76,000 seat Spartan and enjoy. 
THE GAME: 
Saturday, Sept. 19 
3:30 P.M. EDT 
Spartan Stadium East Lansing, Mich. 



1

Irish Foot:ball 

GAME NOTES 
THE GAME: otre Dame (1--1) versus Michigan State{O~ 1). 
KICKOFF: 3:30 p.m. EDT. 
TV and RADIO: ABC (Keith Jackso and Bob Griese} will provide national television coverage. Mutual Radi Network (Tony Roberts, Tom Pagna will broadcast.the game.to a nauonal radio audience. · · 
nCKETS: Spartan Stadium (75,000) in East Lansing is sold out. 
RANKINGS: Notre Dame: AP 7th, USA Today/CNN 7th. Michigan State: AP unranked, USA Today/CNN: unranked. · 
THE SERIES: Notre Dame leads the series 38·18-l and has won thelas five meetings. 
At Spartan Stadium, the Irish hold an 11-9-1 edge, including wins in their last two visits. 
THE LAST TIME: Notre Dame crushed Michigan State, 49-10. as the Irish racked up 650 yards o 
total offense. 
LAST WEEK: Notre Dame tied sixth­
ranked Michigan, 17~ 17, while • Michigan State was upset by Centra Michigan, 24~20. 
FYI 1
: Three Notre Dame P ayer$ are expected to return to action this 
week. LB Justin Goheen, DT Brian 
Hamilton and SE Ray Griggs are al • listed as probable. . 
TB Willie Clark fractured a smal · bone in his right wrist last week an will wear a fiberglass cast for().~ 12 weeks. 
SCHEDULES 

A Supplement to The Observer 
With a Vengeance 
Demetrius DuBose makes return to lineu.p 
The Observer/ Jake Peters Demetrius DuBose, shown here last year at Purdue, makes his 1992 debut tomorrow, after serving his two-game suspension. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Notre Dame argued that the $600 loan, according to Irish coach Lou Holtz, 
Associate Sports Editor which was originally reported in the DuBose is better than ever right now. press as $5,000, was legitimate because "Demetrius is very anxious to play," he Saturday's contest with Michigan State DuBose was an intimate friend of the said. "His fundamentals right now are man and his wife prior to his recruitment better than I've ever seen them. He is a
marks a rebirth for Irish captain and 
linebacker Demetrius DuBose. by the Irish. better tackler. And if Demetrius ever had After sitting through Notre Dame's first Despite the argument and the Notre a weakness, it was his tackling." 
two games because of an NCAA-issued Dame football program's clout in NCAA DuBose's anxiousness came to a head 
suspension, DuBose will return to his circles, DuBose was suspended for Notre last weekend, when the Irish faced Dame's first two games after a prolonged Michigan in Notre Dame stadium.
starting role this week when the Irish 
take on the Spartans in East Lansing. investigation of the loan and other DuBose, kept off of the field by his sus-DuBose, a preseason All-American and considerations. pension, sat in the stands amid the Irish 
a candidate for the Butkus and Lombardi But this week, his time has come. faithful and ultimately watched Notre 
awards, made 127 tackles to lead the "It's not difficult to accept (the NCAA Dame with a 17-17 tie. 
Irish last season, including team-leading ruling) anymore," said DuBose earlier "Saturday was really tough, not being 
tackle totals in seven straight midseason this week. "What has happened is in the on the sidelines," DuBose said. "It was 
games. past. The NCAA made their decision, the hard being so close to the game, but yet But it was DuBose who was tackled in suspension is up, and I'm ready to play." so far." an NCAA investigation of a loan made to Michigan State should beware DuBose's DuBose, who practiced with the scout him by a Seattle man with a graduate fury. Reserved off of the field, the inside team during his suspension, hopes that degree from Notre Dame. DuBose and linebacker is a terror on the turf. And last week's game was the last time he 
would be separated from the starting Irish defense. 
"I felt really helpless during the game," he said. "I was completely healthy, but I couldn't play. Hopefully I'll never have to experience it again." 
Though DuBose's suspension is complete, he still receives hate mail at the Notre Dame football office and questions about his Nissan Pathfinder still linger. 
Those questions, which center around the loan DuBose received for the truck, annoy DuBose, who insists that his po­tential as an NFL athlete had nothing to do with the loan's approval. He also maintains that athletes are the focus of unwarranted attention from the NCAA. 
"I don't say 'He's got an Impala. Did he buy it, did his parents, or did he steal it?' I don't judge people by their automo­biles," DuBose said. 
"Lots of students at Notre Dame have nice, new cars. It's not a conflict if I'm Joe Blow and my parents bought me a car. But it is a conflict because I'm an athlete." 
DuBose's status as an athlete in a program of the highest profile has brought him attention, both good and bad. Lately, however, most of it has been negative. But despite the problems he has faced this fall, the senior has tried to keep all of the ambient noise out of his head. 
"This has been a character-building 
· situation, but it's over with," he said. "I really have tried not to focus on the past. I'm only looking forward to this week." 


page 2 Notre Dame vs. Michigan State Friday, September 18, 1992 
Wide receiver Dawson is master of his own fate 

By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

"It's not over until I say it's over." 
This simple variation of a common theme keeps Lake Dawson going. It keeps him going through good times and bad, through any sort of adver­sity, reminding him that he is the master of his own fate. 
The words stretch across one of the many Bo Jackson posters in his dorm room. Hanging above the couch, right across from the TV, it is always close by, reminding him. 
These words pulled Dawson through this spring, a spring that saw him away from his teammates in his home state of 
"I've always had people questioning me, challenging me, so I always try to do better." 

-Lake Dawson 
Washington, forced away from Notre Dame for very personal reasons. 
"It was very difficult, because of course you want to fit in. These are the people you shower with, sleep with, cry with, work with, you just want to be there because you feel as if they don't need you at that point in time," says Dawson. "I just wanted to do everything I could to fit back in because I knew I would be back in the summer and fall." 
But it is not as though Lake Dawson's career at Notre Dame has been marked by adversity. The exact opposite is true. Dawson received rave reviews in just his first two weeks on campus, as coaches praised his speed, his hands, and his re­markable work ethic. 
"They called my name to run be surprising to find it all comes in a play," recalls Dawson, "And right back to his work ethic. I was like, 'Who me?' I was "I think that in football, or very excited." school, or in anything, there's 
And he made those first few always a tremendous amount of plays count, catching a 45-yard competition," says Dawson. pass from Rick Mirer to set up "You always want to raise your one of the Irish's two fourth­status to get ahead of the other quarter touchdowns in Notre guy. I've always had people Dame's come-from-behind vic­questioning me, challenging me, tory. so I always try to do better." 
But still he kept it up. He had The bottom line is that no one made a lasting impression with works harder than Lake Daw­his tireless work ethic, and he son. A unique blend of ex­could not stop now. traordinary talent and desire, 
G:•GS >Roo. 
11-0. 6 12-10 24 2~2 6 
:as 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Clint Johnson has benefitted from Dawson's strict work ethic. 
, 

The Observer/ Jake Peters Junior Lake Dawson is emerging as Rick Mirer's main target. Dawson leads Notre Dame with six receptions. 
"I wanted to make as big of an easy. He thought he would It carried over into last sea­impression as I could," notes probably spend his first year in son, which saw him post 24­Dawson. an Irish uniform learning the catch, 433-yard season. 
The 6'1", 202-pound split end system, settling in. But there he If one wonders what has pro­was, in fact, surprised. He was, on national TV, under the pelled a very good high school never thought it would be this lights, Michigan against number football player into a superstar 
one Notre Dame. in just two years, it should not 
he calls himself a classic over­
achiever. 

He has even been an inspira­tion to his roommate, who is a pretty fine receiver in his own right, Notre Dame's starting flanker, Clint Johnson. 
"Everybody talks about his work ethic, and it kind of got to me," says Johnson. "I'd usually see him catching balls after practice when everybody else is dead tired. If he's catching balls, I knew I should be over there. He's contributed a lot to where I am now presently as a receiver." 
However, if there's one trait that could possibly be more im­pressive than his work ethic is his attitude. His quiet, unas­suming demeanor is a welcome change from other trash-talking college receivers. 
In a proving ground where one or two plays can make a difference between unemploy­ment and millions in the arena of the NFL, true team-oriented players are hard to find. 
''I'm basically a low-key per­son, and I try to stay as down to earth as I possibly can," notes Dawson. "I enjoy my personal time, that's the type of person I am. I like attention but I don't like to really exploit myself too much." 
And behind all that talent, that work ethic, that attitude, is the smile. The kind of smile that lights up a room, that sig­nature smile that makes Daw­son so recognizable. 
"He's a great guy, he's always got that smile on his face," agrees Johnson. "He's the type of guy that just looking at him will make you smile. I don't always tell him that I appreciate him and things of that nature, but I'm really thankful for him." 
Of course, Dawson is quick to return the thanks. 
"He (Johnson) has encouraged me quite a bit and given me a lot of support. He didn't have the same amount of success that I had when I got here, but now it's nice to see him doing well and returning kickoffs for touchdowns," states Dawson, "When I'm in the NFL, I want to play alongside Clint Johnson." 
Right now it looks as if Daw­son does have a promising NFL career ahead of him. He says he just wants to play for longer than the average player, which is about four years, but every­one knows there's always a lot of rough times along the way. 
"Any type of adversity that I have," he says, "I'm going to find a way to make it through. That's the type of person I am." 

y~jf~To'' AVQ• · 107···.··17.8 
433 18.0 
89 14.8 
629;j·:+7.4. 

Notre Dame vs. Michigan State 
Friday, September 18, 1992 page3 
Duckett wants to finish what he started 
BY CHRIS BALDWIN in the last three years. 
State News Sports Writer White entered his senior year as a Heisman Trophy candidate and departed with MSU's first 
They have rushed for 8,078 Rose Bowl Trophy in 34 years. yards and counting. Punishing Five years later, Duckett hit after punishing hit has been comes into this season as a inflicted on them for 83 football Heisman contender, but he is games. dreaming about White's Rose 
They are MSU senior tailback Bowl experience. Tico Duckett's shoulder pads "I came back because I have from current Houston Oiler's some unfinished business to 
running back and former MSU take care of," the fifth-year se­football All-American (1984-87} nior said as a grin spread 


Lorenzo White. across his face. "I couldn't leave Tico Duckett "It's just something that hap­after a 3-8 season and there are 
allowing all of Duckett's skills to pened by chance," Duckett said, a few records I may be able to shine through. 
shrugging his shoulders. "I just get if I stay. Most importantly, I It's sort of an NFL offense,"went in the equipment room wanted to complete my college said MSU running backs coachand picked out a pair of degree. 
Bobby Williams. "The backs areshoulder pads. After I had al­"Even if I don't get the used as pass receivers as well
ready picked them, (Spartan records or we have a losing 
as running out of the backfield.
equipment Manager} Bob season, I'll know I finished so 
There's so many things that
Knickerbocker told me they I'll feel complete. I wouldn't feel Tico can do that most peoplewere Lorenzo's old shoulder right if I left." 
haven't even seen."
pads. I guess they're kind of The lure of an NFL career and 
Earning his degree in ele­
lucky. Some great traditions all the money that comes with it mentary education would givestarted with him." was a fleeting temptation in Duckett something to fall back
The 5-foot-10-inch, 195-Duckett's mind. 
on. The Kalamazoo native did apound Duckett picked up where ''I'm not thinking about the lot of volunteer work and con­White, who racked up a Spartan NFL right now," Duckett said. 
tinues to talk to little kidsrecord 4,887 yards and 43 "That's a little bit ahead. I 
throughout his MSU career intouchdowns, left off, exploding might think about that toward preparation for a second gradefor 17 5 yards against Iowa in the end of the season and next teaching career. 
his first start ever as a fresh­year. 
"Little kids need someone to man. Duckett has rushed for The Spartans plan to utilize a 
care about them and role
3,191 yards and 21 touchdowns pro-style offense this season, models," Duckett said. "I love 
Spartans look to bounce back 
By JENNY MARTEN yards, 16 carries, 1 TD} to high­"Demetrius is very anxious to Associate Sports Editor light the Spartan rushing game play," said Holtz. "His funda­versus the Chippewas. mentals right now are better The Spartans will be ready to Michigan State head coach than I've ever seen them. He's 
defend their turf this weekend. George Perles was pleased with got a nose for the football." 
Still reeling from a season­the performance of Thomas The rest of the Irish defense is opening loss to Central Michi­against Central Michigan. also ready for Michigan State gan, Michigan State would like "Craig Thomas ran and after a strong showing against to get its first win of the season caught the ball well. He had his Michigan. The defense put when they host Notre Dame in best day in spite of the play pressure on Wolverine quar­Spartan Stadium. when the helmet knocked the terback Elvis Grbac throughout 
Michigan State has a re­ball out of his arm. It was still a the entire game forcing him to vamped offense led by junior great effort. He showed that he hurry passes and knocking him quarterback Jim Miller and can carry the load," said Perles. down on occasion. The masterminded by assistant Another offensive strength for secondary did its part with coach Morris Watts. Miller Michigan State will be its of­three interceptions. completed 21 of 26 pass at­fensive line, which returns three "The defense played very tempts for 215 yards in the starters from last year's squad. well," said Holtz of the Michigan 
game against Central Michigan. The veteran starters include game. "We stopped the run Miller will be looking to connect sophomore tackle Shane better than anticipated. We with senior tight end Mitch Hannah, senior guard Toby stopped them three times on Lyons, freshman split end Heaton and junior guard Brett third down. We made some big Demetrice Martin, senior split Lori us. plays at critical times." end Mark MacFarland and The Spartans lost experience Keeping Irish quarterback sophomore flanker Mill Cole­on the line with senior center Rick Mirer's receivers under man, who replaces second­Jeff Graham out with an ankle close watch will be a talented round NFL draftee Courtney sprain. Sophomore Mark and experienced Spartan sec­Hawkins. Birchmeier will fill his spot. ondary. Three starters return 
"Offensively, this is a different Rounding out the offensive line including junior Myron Bell, Michigan State football team," will be sophomore tackle Brian sophomore Stan Callender and said Notre Dame head coach DeMarco. junior Brian Winters. The Lou Holtz. "Miller is an The Michigan State offense corners will be well-protected excellent quarterback. He has will face the complete Notre with Bell and Callender while really done a nice job." Dame defense as senior inside Winters will handle the backup 
Leading the Spartan ground linebacker Demetrius DuBose duties for both. Junior Steve 
attack at tailback will be senior returns to the Irish lineup after Wasylk and senior Todd Murray All-American candidate Tico serving his NCAA mandated will play strong and free safety Duckett. Duckett (80 yards, 16 two-game suspension. respectively. carries} combined with junior Holtz feels that DuBose is "They have a solid defensive 
tailback Craig Thomas (87 ready to start his season. football team. Their secondary 
KEEP YOUR EYES ON... 
working with little kids." 
Any Spartan bowl dreams hinge on Duckett returning to his 1989 and 1990 form. The leading returning rusher in the Big Ten averaged more than 5.5 yards a carry in those two seasons. 
Duckett averaged 4.4 yards a carry last year and sputtered out of the gate, rushing for 350 total yards in the first five games when MSU went 0-5. 
"If I had rushed for 1,200 to 1,300 yards and we went 8-3 I think it would have been a dif­ferent story then rushing for 1,200 to 1,300 yards and going 3-8 like last year," said Duckett, who gained 1,204 yards in 1991. "Winning makes everyone look better." 
Duckett's break-away speed can make the MSU coaching st,aff look like geniuses. He buried Minnesota with a 88­yard touchdown jaunt and blew past Northwestern on a 75-yard touchdown run last season. 
A conditioning program con­sisting of hill work, sprints and weights further developed Duckett's natural speed and outstanding peripheral vision. The program is a combination of White's agility work and Walter Payton's, Duckett's idol, 
is as hard-hitting as any I have seen," said Holtz. 
The linebacking corps also returns several starters from last year, but lost middle linebacker Chuck Bullough. Their bookend outside linebackers, junior Rob Fredrickson and sophomore Matt Christensen, combined for 140 tackles last season. Han­dlind the middle will be senior linebacker Ty Hallock who moves over from tight end. 
The defensive weakness for the Spartans is their defensive line, which returns only two starters. Michigan State lost starting ends John MacNeill and strength work. 
"All we have to do is give Tico a sliver of daylight and he's gone," said Spartan senior left guard Toby Heaton. "Once he's in the open field no one can catch him from behind. It's a great feeling knowing that every time Tico gets the ball it's a potential touchdown." 
Duckett prefers to shift the credit back to his offensive line. 
"If feels great to burst a big run," Duckett said, decked out in a purple jumpsuit. "But as soon as I get back in I want to know who gave me the block. Somebody had to throw a great block to spring me. I never say, 'I did this or I did that.· Nothing gets done alone. Every yard I've gained has come with the team's help. Somebody has to give you the key block." 
Humbleness and a level head keeps Duckett firmly on the ground and in the good graces of his teammates despite all the publicity surrounding the mar­quee tailback. 
"We get along great with Tico," Heaton said. "He's a re­ally nice guy who's easy to work with. He's good about giving the line credit. You want to make sure every block's perfect for a guy like Tico." 
Bill Johnson. Junior Juan Hammonds and senior Mike Edwards, both first-year starters, will work the ends. 
The leader on the defensive line will be senior tackle William Reese, who is the team's leading returning tackler with 81. Next to him will be redshirt freshman Robert McBride. 
On special teams, Michigan State's leading scorer, senior placekicker Jim DelVerne re­turns, but punting duties will be handled by freshman Chris Salani, who replaces four-year starter Josh Butland. 






JIM MILLER ROB FREDRICKSON JIM DELVERNE MYRON BELL 
The junior quarterback Junior outside linebacker is a Senior placekicker was the Junior cornerback is expected Senior tackle should be a returns to lead the Spartan preseason All-American Spartan's leading scorer last to make a smooth transition leader on the defensive line. In offense. Miller became the candidate. He notched 66 season. He connected on 12 of from strong safety where he 1991, he finished third on the Michigan State starter during tackles in eight games last year 17 field goals attempts last played most of last year. He was team in tackles with 81 the fourth game of last season and should provide the season. DelVerne was successful a force in the Michigan State including five for losses. Reese and finished the season with linebacking crew with valuable on both on his extra point tries secondary last season with 73 gets off the ball well and has the 130 completions for 1,368 experience. versus Central Michigan last tackles and three interceptions. ability to penetrate the opposing yards. week. backfield. 
page 4 Notre Dame vs. Michigan State Friday, September 18, 1992 
Burris, secondary proving people wrong
I 
l 
By MIKE SCRUDATO The inexperienced secondary Grbac) threw it," the Irish Sports Ed1tor was harshly criticized through­safety said of the play. "I just out the rest of the season, and wanted to make sure that I 
Two years ago Notre Dame even into the 1991 campaign. caught the ball, and that is the had a front seven that rivaled "Everyone starts off young. reason I dove." the nation's best, featuring You have to start from some Though Burris grabbed 
Lombardi Trophy winner Chris point," Burris commented. headlines for his performance Zorich, All-American Michael But now the Irish secondary is on defense, he is also a part of Stonebreaker, and honorable getting the last laugh, as it is the Irish's full house backfield, mention All-Americans Bob considered the cornerstone of a role he was given this season 
Dahl and Scott Kowalkowski. the defense. when he was once again sur­The secondary showcased Juniors John Covington, Greg prised by his head coach. another All-American, Todd Lane, Tom Carter and Burris "I was not expecting it at all, Lyght, but was considered the have played together virtually but I was very excited and en­weak point of the Irish defense their entire collegiate careers, thused to be back there with from the start of the 1990 sea­something that greatly benefits Jerome (Bettis) again." Burris son. the secondary as a unit. noted. 
After a 3-4 Navy team scored "We grew together and that The two were backfield-mates 31 points against the second­really helped a lot. We under­in their freshman year, when ranked Irish, Lou Holtz made stand each other very well. We they saw a lot of fourth-quarter 
some changes. One of them was compliment each other, but we duty in Irish romps, before 
moving Jeff Burris, a promising also criticize each other be­Burris' move to defense. 
freshman tailback, into the cause if one person makes a Despite the long offensive 
defensive backfield, where he mistake, it reflects on the layoff, Burris is still a force in has been ever since. group. the backfield. 
"I had no idea I would ever be "But we're still not at the "Jeff is a fine tailback, and he 
playing defensive back," Burris point that we want to be at. We plays well on the goal line and 
says now. "I thought Coach are still growing," Burris said. in short yardage situations," 
Holtz was kidding when he first "We not only want to be the Holtz commented. "He only has 
told me. I hadn't played defen­best secondary, but the best de­to work (with the offense) about 
sive back since my sophomore fense in the nation." 20 minutes a week in practice. 
year of high school. Notre Dame took a step in So, depending how tired he is 
"He told Willie (Clark) and I that direction last week against we are able to use him in those on Sunday, and the following Michigan, when the defense situations." Saturday (against Tennessee) shut out Michigan for the final As a tailback at Northwestern can said of the trip. "Tony Rice we were in there. 14 minutes and Burris' inter­High School in Rock Hill, S.C., These accolades drew the at­showed me around, and he 
"I had to pick up a new sys­ception with 1:05 left preserved Burris gained over 3500 yards tention of the Irish staff, which showed me that a player from tem. I had to learn coverage a 17-17 tie. and scored 38 touchdowns, as brought him to Notre Dame for the South could come here and and read formations, and that "I couldn't belie.:ve he he earned South Carolina a visit in January of his senior with a lot of hard work be able was kind of tough at first." (Michigan quarterback Elvis player of the year honors in year. to excel." 
DEPTH CHARTS 

When the Irish have the ball When the Spartans have the ball 
.. 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS (PLEASE, NO WAGERING) 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports staff, AI Lesar of the South Bend Tribune and a guest prognosticator predict the outcomes of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each JimVogl AI Lesar Ale Shafer Mike Scrudato Rich Kurz Jenny Marten Rolando de person does against the spread. Assistant Sports South Bend NO hockey Sports Editor Associate Associate Aguiar Home teams are in CAPS. Editor Tribune coach 12-16-0 Sports Editor Sports Editor Associate 






15-13-0 15-13-0 Last guest: 4-1 0 12-16-0 12-16-0 Sports Editor 
8-20-0 Florida 4.5 over TENNESSEE Gators Gators Gators Vols Gators Gators Gators OKLAHOMA 11 over So. Calif. Trojans Sooners Sooners Sooners Sooners Trojans Sooners Florida St. 10 over NC STATE Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles Wolfpack Seminoles Seminoles Seminoles VIRGINIA 6 over Ga. Tech Cavaliers Yellow Jackets Yellow Jackets Cavaliers Cavaliers Cavaliers Yellow Jackets MICHIGAN 31 over Okla. St. Cowboys Cowboys Wolverines Cowboys Cowboys Wolverines Wolverines BYU even Ucla Cougars Bruins Bruins Bruins Cougars Bruins Cougars STANFORD 32 over N'western Cardinal Cardinal Cardinal Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats 
,. SYRACUSE 13 over Ohio St. Orange men Orange men Orange men Orangemen Orange men Orange men Orangemen Alabama 10 over ARKANSAS Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Razorbacks Crimson Tide Indiana 3.5 over KENTUCKY Wildcats Hoosiers Wildcats Wildcats Hoosiers Wildcats Hoosiers WASHINGTON 7 over Nebraska Huskies Huskers Huskies Huskies Huskers Huskies Huskies BOSTON COLL. 30 over Navy Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Eagles Tex. A&M 15.5 over MISSOURI Aggies Tigers Tigers Aggies Aggies Aggies Aggies Notre Dame 14 over MICH. ST. Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Spartans 




action at 


Hit the hot spots at Michigan State 
By JENNIFER GUERIN -Goodtimes Pizza: 615 E. Grand River Ave. Assistant Accent Editor -Eat-in, take out, and delivery pizza. 
I 
ndubitably, the swarms of people Stomachs full, bodies relaxed, and brains ready venturing to MSU (with or without tickets) to forget about college academia for just a few this weekend will need some ideas about hours, Lansing visitors should take full 
where to wine and dine themselves upon advantage of the nightclubs and bars in the area. 
arrival. -B'Zar: 220 M.A.C. Ave, University Mall. Fear not, brave travellers. Contemporary, high-energy nightclub located A veritable plethora of options await Notre below America's Cup restaurant. 
Dame and Saint Mary's students in Lansing, -Dooley's: 131 Albert Street. 
Michigan and the surrounding area. Through Limited menu pub with "Sensations" nightclub the years of the ND/MSU rivalry, lists of student on the lower level. Highly recommended for favorites have been compiled and revised roadtrippers. At the last update, the entrance continuously. age was 19, although people still have to be 21 to 
Following are just a few of the hot spots from drink. roving Accent reporter emeritus Robyn Simmons, -Rick's American Cafe: 224 Abbott Road. who trekked to Michigan State in 1990 and Rock 'n Roll music play in the background of imparted the Observer with her wisdom. this restaurant/bar. 
The majority of bars and restaurants in the -The Riviera Cafe: 231 M.A.C. Ave. vicinity of MSU are located in East Lansing, just Like almost every other entertainment north of the campus, and Michigan's capital city, establishment we could find, it offers music, food Lansing, which is northwest of campus. Grand and a bar. River Avenue separates the MSU campus from -Zeke's Deli and Sports Bar: 300 M.A.C. Ave. 
the city of East Lansing. If fast food is in demand Holiday Inn, University Place. by any roadtrippers, Grand River is the street to -Harrison Roadhouse: 729 Michigan Ave. cruise. For those with more refined tastes, Recommended by previous roadtrippers for several non-fast food establishments pop up excellent food, music and energetic post-game ­along the way. atmosphere. 
-Chelsea's Restaurant and Pub: 5900 Park -America's Cup: 220 M.A.C. Ave, University Lake Road. Mall. Nautical atmosphere defines this restaurant For those crazy kids who want to indulge their and bar. Nightclub B'Zar makes up the lower cosmopolitan urges and explore beyond the 
floor. borders of East Lansing, take U.S. 496 West to -Castellani's Market: 551 E. Grand River Ave. Lansing, where most of the larger nightclubs and Italian deli offering sandwiches, groceries, beer bars can be found. 
and wine for take-out. A pre-tailgating heaven. -Fred's American Gothic Eatery and Pub: 
-Crunchy's: 254 W. Grand River Ave. 7501 W. Saginaw (Holiday Inn) Bar and restaurant. 'Nuff said. A newer nightclub, Fred's sometimes features -Jersey Giant Submarines: 220 M.A.C. Ave, live bands on Fridays and Saturdays. 
University Mall. -Houlihan's: 5652 W. Saginaw (inside the Even though they're from Jersey, the subs, Lansing Mall). made fresh, will satisfy any hungry fan. Live DJ seems to be Houlihan's claim to fame. -The Peanut Barrel: 521 E.Grand River Ave. Not too unique, but it does the job. 
Popular student hangout on roadtrip -Roxy's Nite Club: 7711 W. Saginaw Highway, weekends. Restaurant and full-service bar inside Midway Motor Lodge. offering the usual -sandwiches, burgers, beer. Requests are taken at this video night club, 
-P.T. O'Malley's: 210 Abbott. featuring Top 40 music from the 60s, 70s, 80s Restaurant with a more casual tone serving and 90s. burgers, hot dogs and soft drinks. -Scandal's: 925 S. Creyts (inside the Sheraton 
-Rocky's: 213 E. Grand River Ave. Lansing Hotel) Southwestern food and burgers. Daily drink specials and dancing to more Top -Sidestreets Deli: 605 E. Grand River Ave, 40 tunes. 
Stonehouse Mall. -Tango's Restaurant: 111 W. Washtenaw. 
New York-style delicatessen. All the comforts D.J. plays a variety of tunes, from Classic Rock (or discomforts) of the Big Apple, sans a view of to R&B and jazz, to help students burn off that the Statue of Liberty. pre-and post-game energy. 
-Trippers: 350 Frandor. PIZZA HAVENS FOR THE ITALIAN-AT-HEART: Trippers in Lansing's premiere sports bar. -Bell's Pizza House: 225 M.A.C. Ave. Sports fanatics can't get enough: options include Greek pizza, grinders, salads and spaghetti. half-court basketball, billiards and darts. As an -Bilbo's Pizza in the Pan: 213 Ann St. afterthought, food and drinks might come in Don't question the name,·just enjoy the chow. handy. 
The Observer 

Friday, September 18,1992 
Darby: leaving his mark on the sands of time 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Lives ofgreat dogs all remind 
US, 

We can make our lives sub­lime; And departing, leave behind us, Paw prints on the sands of time. 
Last Friday, a woman's voice on the phone asked: "Do you have 'The Shirt' over there?" She left me mystified, as though she were speaking in code. 
"No," I said, "but we have the pants." Now it was her turn to be mystified. I should have added, "We also have the tie, the vest, and the jacket," and leave her wondering whether she had serendipitously rung up the phone booth that Clark Kent uses when he makes the costume change to Superman. 
What she had in mind, of course, was "The Shirt '92," which features Notre Dame's winning coaches transfigured in glory on Mount Rushmore. As the brainchild of the Student Body Government, it's becoming more popular than the young Elvis stamp. Years ago, some groupies of my first dog felt in­spired to produce the Darby O'Gill T-shirt, which became almost as popular as the pro­posed stamp of the aging Elvis, at the Urchins' Mass which I used to say; and it would now be a collector's item if you could manage to find one. I bought the lion's share of them myself, as Christmas presents for Darby's relatives. 
Who, you may well want to know, is Darby O'Gill? If you come to the North Quad, you can find out for yourself. Just listen as a pear-shaped cleric with a moustache overgrowing his upper lip yells in all lives of my dogs. That's because the original Darby might have been outlawed on campus if Student Affairs hadn't approved of him as a member of the Campus Ministry staff. He was, for the many students who be­friended him, a gateway into God's Lonely Kingdom during the alienated Seventies; be­cause they enjoyed meeting him so much, many of them would show up on Sundays for Mass. Before there was a Theodore's in LaFortune, there was for many years a "Darby's Place," a coffee house of sorts set up in the basement, where O'Gill made himself available from midnight to five a.m., Sunday through Thursday. The dog gave the students a bridge to the Church that they would not otherwise have had. 
When Darby I died on Presi­dent's day in 1980, two weeks after his tenth birthday, be­cause his great, loving heart was worn out, I went shopping immediately for his replace­ment. In a room full of puppies, I recognized the successor without a second's hesitation, and a dove hovering over him couldn't have made it clearer. Looking into his face, I could see the Darby-eyes giving me the look that asked if he could really trust me. It was the same look the dying dog gave me just before he went to sleep. 
The D. O'G. calendar will not sell like hot cakes the way "The Shirt '92" has. Its chief use may be as an aide de memoir a sentimental priest can rely on as he totters his way to the place where his dogs will be young again. At the Albert & Victoria Museum in London, there's a small stone set into the brickwork which memorializes two dogs that must have been favorites at that Kensington landmark. My cocker spaniels haven't earned that kind of fame, though their names are household words in many Catholic homes, because I write about them so often in the Catholic press. 
Years from now, it would be nice to think of Domers becom­ing mindful-after a look at the Darby calendar treasured as a keepsake-that on this date in such and such a year-Darby I or II or III lifted his leg for the first time to a Notre Dame tree as he was making water. That initiatory leg-lift is a landmark event in the life of any dog as he's growing up. 
But please don't say kaddish for me yet, since I still have miles to go before I sleep. All I want to do is call your attention to the young O'Gill. He's avail­able to you for anything you might need a dog for, with this exception: he's not allowed on blind dates with other canines that may lack his innocence. I'm trying to keep as ornamen­tal as the lilies of the field, which toil not, neither do they spin, this means I'll never ask him to earn stud fees me to col­lect. 
He may need more fulfillment than I can offer him, but as I have said from Day One, no dog is an island; and if he were, he would be useless as a campus minister at Notre Dame; and he wouldn't be anyone's gateway into God's Lonely Kingdom. And though he might have Darby O'Gill as a name, he would never have it as a title. My dog needs students who will give him a hand in his own growth. I trust that students will teach him their gentleness, so that as the Darby of the ·Nineties, he'll be a dog to remember. 

directions, "Come on, lad, let's go. Damn it, Darby, where are you?" Squirrels, rabbits, chip­munks, birds, ducks coming up from the lakes, and even stu­dents tremble to hear the ur­gency in the priestly summons. The creature turning a deaf ear to his master's voice is Darby O'Gill III, a young cocker spaniel with a coat that's almost the color of milk and honey. When I finally interrupt him participating in the cosmic dance, he gives me a reproach­ful look from whatever humble place he occupies in the great chain of being, as if to say, "Did you not know that I must be about my Father's business?" 
The first Darby O'Gill, who arrived at Notre Dame in 1970, was named for a character in Irish fiction. The second dog, Darbatius Secundus, was named after the first. Last year, when I brought the third dog from a puppy farm in Virginia to live with me in Stanford, I decided that Darby O'Gill was not only a name, but also a title. 
The Church has the Pope, and Tibet has its Dalai Lama. Notre Dame has its Darby O'Gill; and he's all things to all comers willing to spare him a pat. Hours after Darby II died, I interviewed that nine-week-old puppy to see if he were quali­fied to be Darby III. Since the date of his election a year ago on September 14, he's lived up to my every hope for him, though he's giving me a run for the money as his stage man­ager. 
"The Shirt '92" has me won­dering if the student government will lend me its support. I have my heart set on on producing a D. O'G. calendar with the significant dates in the lives of my animals marked in red. Brother Dennis could have the dates of Chancellor, his golden retriever, marked too; and the same is true of any other animals students swear by, like Bambi, and the stag at eve who drank his fill/where danced the moon on Monan 's rill. 
A date worth commemorating is December 17, since it was the birthday of my second Darby O'Gill; it's also the day when the first of the "()" Antiphons is sung at Vespers as part of Advent. In the years when the urchins used to come for Mass, we would celebrate Beethoven's birthday on December 16 as a vigil for the more obscure nativity when my intermediate pet's mom delivered her litter in a warm kitchen near Chicago. Charlie Shultz tends to draw Schroeder at his piano on Beethoven's birthday, honoring his hero with the "Moonlight Sonata". Hearing him in my imagination, I like to pretend that he's mindful of the dog with the adjoining birthday. The gentleness of that piece bring Darby II to my mind more than anything else I can think of. 
I have a head full of dates that mark the rites of passage in the 

'. 
\,_ \ f I. h '' ~ \. f 

..~ ..~ I .:. • • . . j • .• 
Friday, September 18, 1992 The Observer page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES 
For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 

Need Math help? Experienced tutor, all levels-Joe 2711532 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! 
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday 
Pandora's Books 808 Howard 
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
TRAVEL FREEl SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
'81 Mustang 61000 miles, New Clutch, Tape Deck call 289-6680 
Typing 237-1949 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 
FOUND: RING IN STADIUM AT 
ND-MICH GAME 
CALLX1593 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: Gold cladaugh bracelet. 
Possibly in NDH or Loftus. Huge 
sentimental value. If found please 
call271-7288. REWARD 
LOST: 9/15 Circular ND 150 keyring w/3 keys w/#326 on them & some $. Jim x3320 
LOST: EYEGLASSES AND A BLACK CASE DURING MICHIGAN GAME WEEKEND. IF FOUND, CALL BRENDAN 234-1376. 
A camera was found outside of 
Stepan prior to the Clinton 
wonderful Clinton speech. If you 
lost a camera, call and describe it 
and it's yours. 283-2016 
I WANTED 
SURVEY RESEARCH TECHNICIANS Flexible schedules available for "The best and the brightest ." Able to work 4PM-1 OPM or 5:30PM­10:30PM during the week and EITHER 9AM-3PM or 3:30PM­9:30PM on Saturday OR 11AM­5PM or 5:30PM-9:30PM on Sunday to do survey research interviewing, coding and data entry in our growing South Bend Research Operations Center. Excellent compensation and working conditions. PC experience desired. Typing required. Send resume or letter of interest to: 108 N. Main, Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or call 219-233-3453 tor appointment. ALSO HIRING WEEKENDS ONLY 
BONNIE DOON 

HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR 
SERVERS, COOKS AND 
FOUNTAIN 
Apply in person to: 
52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 
4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
Needed: 2 Women's Lacrosse stix. Good condition. Reasonable prices. Call Polly or Danielle 284-5504. 
WANTED: CAMPUS SALES/PROMOTIONS REP FOR CASUAL FALL/WINTER BOOT LINE. HAVE FUN AND EARN MONEY WHILE DOING IT! PRODUCT SOLD IN SUCH STORES AS MACY'S AND NORDSTROM. PLEASE CALL 800-847-8447 BETWEEN 9-5 PST, ASK FOR KATE TO ARRANGE AN INTERVIEW. Pis need ride to BOSTON for Oct. break. Share gas & all. Brian 1068 
We need a kid lover to care for our 2 1/2 year old. Approx. 15 hrs per week. Very flexible. We can work it around your class schedule. 5 minutes east of U.P. Mall. Must have own transportation. Call277­2468. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Guaranteed INCOME with HUGE PROFIT potential. Need extra money? Are you motivated? Want to have some fun? Send letter of interest to: Maingate Enterprises P0915 Notre Dame, IN 46556 or CALL: 
287-6730 (Leave message) 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Michiana Figure Skating Club needs a skating instructor tor Wednesday evenings. Call Mary Myers at 287-4524 or Penni Williams at 277-3699. 
WANTED: Part-time child care worker for in-home care of 2 children, 1 infant. 10-12 hours/week, afternoons. 273-1702. 
I Need 2 GA's for Stanford, BYU, BC or Penn! Help! x4174 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!. .. Begin NOW!. ..FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
I need a ride to Miami(OH.) University ANY weekend. 
Will help pay for gas. Call Brian x2081 
Need ride to Milwaukee/Area on 9/25. Will help pay gas/tolls. Please call Usa 284-5200. 
WANTED 2 BUY: 2 GA TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME PLS CALL MARIA (716)256-2923 ASAP! 
TASP INTERNATIONAL IS 
LOOKING FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO WANT TO GAIN 
MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE 
NEXT SUMMER. EARN $8,000­
10,000. POSTION AVILABLE 
ACROSS INDIANA (MICHIGAN) (KENTUCKY) (TENNESSEE). CALL TOM SMITH 1-800-543­3792 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins.lrom campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. 
need to sublet turtle 
creek studio aprt. 
call Damien 283-1 870 
Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. 
studio-$220 

I bedroom-$255 
2bedroom-$280 
Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
2 room efficiency, private 
utilities paid, male preferred $7 a day. Call 288-0955 
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, 
TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE 
SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, 
TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE 
SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY 
FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 
272-5959 

FOR SALE 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES......... $200 
86 vw.......................... $ 50 
87 MERCEDES.......... $100 
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 
Choose from thousands starting 
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour 
Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright 
#IN11KJC. 

need 2 Stanford GA's 
Call Chris X2727 
Sweatshirts For Sale!! I Handmade Christmas, ND, & Irish Sweatshirts and T-shirts for sale. For more Information or to see samples call Kim 273-2967. 
Honda Civic 84 hatchback. Auto, 75K miles. $2500. Full main!. recs. Call 234-9386,4-9 wkdys, 12-9 Sun. 
TICKETS 
Need Purdue and Stanford GA's. 
Money no object. Ron x2001 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
I need GA's and/or Student tix tor all or any game. Please call Aaron @ 271-2908. 
I need student and/or GA Purdue football tickets and Boston College GA football tickets; please call Dave at x4506. 
MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB. HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM 
NO. HE NEEDS PLAYS. THERE'S ONE WAY. SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, 
PENNGA'SI CALL ERIN 284-5128. 
HELP\ NEED TO TRADE 4 BC GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM 
(609) 769-0721. 

WANTED: STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S WILL PAY$$ $1 PLEASE CALL TODAY! DANIELA 284-4346 OR BOB 283-1 090 THANKS! 
NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC GA. CALL X2805 
PLEASE SELL ME 2 GA TIX FOR PURDUE. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE CALL 283-1747 
I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs WANNA TRADE? Call Bret (me) at 1248. \love you. 
NEED 2 BYU GA'S BADLY-CALL X3625 
NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State game Nov 14. BIG$ Call Sam Collect (D)908-687-1330 (N)201­376-9427 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ I Need 2 BYU GA's $ $ Patty x4637 $ $$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Alumni needs 
2 PURDUE GA's Please Help. Call Maria x1347 
$$$$ I really need 4 Stanford$$$$ or BYU GA's. If you can help me out call X1643 and ask for Jose. 
I have 2 Stanford GAs---{;311 Gabrielle at 283-3023 
Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call 283­4519. 
Need Penn St. Tix Tony x1786 

Help out the ND Family We need tickets to any and or all HOME GAMES (GAs) Kyle 287-9118 
I NEED 5.PURDUE GA'S and I'm rich enough to buy and sell you! Call Joe-x1854 
NEED BC GA's. Call Kickham at NO Parents .need 2 Stanford G.A's Will Pay Big $$ Meg x2985 
HAVE: 1 BYU st; NEED: 1 BYU GAl ERIC or JASON-273-2941 
!!PLEASE SELL ME 1 STUD AND 2 GA'S FOR PENN ST. X1746 JASON 
player needs many PU GAs and 2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 
SINGLE GA'S FOR SALE MAKE OFFER AT 283-4158 
NEED 3 STAN GA'8-WILL PAY BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ 
$$$$$$ I NEED 2 STANFORD GA's Brandon X2070 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK FOR SALE -ALL TICKETS AVAILABLE-CALL KATIE AT 284-5443-LEAVE MESSAGE, BEST OFFER!!! 
Need Stan. GA's Bob 3398 

FOR SALE: 4 MICHIGAN ST. TIX CALL ERIC OR MIKE @1156 
3 MSU GAs Make Offer 4246 
WANTED: 1 PurdueGA Please!! Call Semo at x1781 
1068 

H)WE PURDUE STU TIX cannot go Call Michae\283-1161 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
HELP\! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. 
HELP! 

NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S CALL JOE X1560 
I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and 
Penn State. 283-4607. 

MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK FOR SALE BOB 287-9118 NO ID REQUIRED NO ID REQUIRED 
NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. 
WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL 
COLLECT 614-354-5716 

STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE 
CALl,. X1547 TONY OR MARK 
Need GA's for all home games 
Brian 273-8368 

Need GA's lor all home games 
Kim 284-4401 
Need Stanford GA's 
Call Mike x1528 

?$! SELL GAs: 2 Purdue, 1 Stan, 
BYU, BC, Pen.S. 272-7034 
I NEED 2 PURDUE GA's 

HAVE 2 GA's FOR STANFORD 
CALLX1234 

NEED PURDUE GA'S. CALL 
SANDY AT 272-6194. 

Need 2 Purdue GA'S. Call ASAP 
Bridgette 284-4457. 

HELP!!! NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 
MSU (4) 50 yrd row 25 Call Bill 
1-517-351-0911 ext 831 

Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame 
1-415-991-3416 call collect 

NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Morrissey Hall & Law School Alumnist. Please help. Call David at 816-931-1267. 
MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS\!\ 
You want them. Badly. 
I have them. Two of them. 
Let's talk. 
Call Delli 283-1693 

WILL TRADE 2 BYU or 2 PURDUE STUDENT TIX FOR 2 STANFORD GA'S. CALL SEAN @X1213 
PLEASE HELP I NEED G.A.'S FOR STANFORD CALL 1573 
NEED BYU TIX! WENDY X1264 
HELPII I NEED 2 GA's FOR 
THE PENN ST GAME!\ 

PLEASE CALL AT 277-5980 
Need 1 Stan!. G.A. 
pay top$$ 
call Scott x4243 

$WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ 
NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S 
CALL SHEILA AT x4251 OR CALL 
(614) 459-0074 COLLECT 
BETWEEN 7pm & 9pm. 

Football Tix 4 Sale. 272-5842 •• 
STANFORD TICKETS 

I NEED STANFORD TICKETS\11 
CALL COLLEEN AT 283-4528. 
!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!11!!!11!1!11111111111111111111111111111!11 
! 
STANFORD.STANFORD• HELP ME! I NEED STANFORD GA'S! IF YOU HAVE ANY 
CALL . SABOL AT 283-2950 ·sTANFORD.STANFORD• !!lll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!lll!lllll!!llll!ll!l!!l!lllll!l!lllll !!! 
Tickets for sale! 2 STANFORD STUDENT TIX Kerry x3619 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I need Purdue GAs I need Stanford GAs I need Boston Collge GAs I need Brigham Young GAs I need Penn State GAs Please Please Please Please Help me out Bob 234-9433 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I have BYU stud. Bob 3398 
N.D. BAND DAD NOS G.A. FOR 
B.Y.U. REASONABLE. SARAH X3874 
I need 3 PU stud tix or GAs will PAY!\ Paul x2990 
NEED 1 PURDUE STD. TICKET CALL 289-5980 
FOR SALE: 2 MARRIED STUD TIX BOOKS BOB 708-668-4398 
I desperately need a G.A. or student ticket for Penn Stat~r-<:all Jahnelle at 283-2998 
I HAVE STUD TIX-ALUANY 
I PERSONAL 
GAMES. 239-6915 256-5327 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!ll 
MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
SMC & NO 1993 SUMMER PROGRAMS-London and Rome. Travel in Ire., Scot., Eng., France, Ger., Switz., & Italy. Courses in Bus., Ed., His!., Italian, Mus., Nursing, and Soc. Meeting Oct. 5, 
6:30 PM Carroll Hall (SMC). Slides, students from 1992, teachers, pizza, etc. Info Call Prof. Black 284­4460 or 272-3726. 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
Katie-Happy Birthday! I miss you, Kathy. 
HADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 
Mickey C, or shall i say Me C, or whatever your name is (PIMA) just wanted to say that if the sun refused to shine ... (you know the rest!) 
Quotes from the Slumber Party Weekend (sorry they're late): "We were asleep for an HOUR?" "Hey ... let's give the cop a beer" "Lets have a vote ... who can make 
it to Dennys?" "Come back here honey .... 
You won't be cold."(Renee!) "Fifty Dollars" "Brr .. Shrivel" "Rachel, did you see those 'boners? 
... Yeah, Lisa, but were they 
looking at us?" "Alright guys, group prayer ..." "Boooooobb! Stop stealing the 
covers!" " ... what the hell do we do for a 
TIE?" "NO MORE QUOTING THE MOVIE" "I spent 18 hours with you guys... 
GO HOME!" ... to all we shared this weekend with, we wouldn't have changed a thing ... well, except the tie ... Troll, BOB, Mike, and the Buckster 
P.S. Happy B-day Rachel! 
...Do you know the name of the smurf who cooked and wore the funny hat? 
Baker? Greedy? We're getting desperate! Call John x3057 and settle the debate .. 
SHORT ON CASH ? Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest 
MARGE 
when the screen door slams, does your dress sway? 
Hey! Hey! Hey! Lost: a cross made of nails, strung on leather. Tremendous sentimental value. Call Rex@ .1613. Hey! Hey! Hey! 
HEY, ARE YOU A BIG FAN OF REJECTION MAN? DO YOU REALLY HAVE A CHOICE? BECOME A MEMBER OF THE NOW-FORMING REJECTION MAN FAN CLUB! CALL THE MOST REJECTED MAN ON CAMPUS, CALL ROCK@ 239-5303 FOR MORE INFO. 
ABSOLUTELY EVERYONE 
TURNED DOWN. 
Attention! Earn $2500! Students, Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips At Your School! SpringBreak 1-800­678-6386. 
SPRING BREAK '93 -SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. CALL 1-800-648-4849. 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child 
filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. 
Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy 
Collect (708) 655-3124. 
HeyNiff 
To the babe (Michelle) who called 
for a meatlover's in Dillon on 
Thursday night. Call me back. I do 
deliver. 
Fletes, Good Luck on MCATS !! Aida, Happy 21st Birthday! Love Liz 
Hungarian: I'm so confused. I want to go to homecoming this year. Let the one's friends know.-ltalian 
ungarians only claim they do it 
better. Italians are the men. 
Rebecca, Last Clue: broad shoulders love ya, Ry 
MAUREEN TITLER­
COME OUT OF THE CLOSET 
WITH YOUR HANDS UP!!! 
!need BYU tix!!! Call Joel at 289­
5563 
KEVIN crucify me Susan 
Happy Belated Birthday Katie 
Love One North 
Jenny-­
We're not going, I'm still here. 
822--Say Hello to the Cockroaches forme! 
SOFIA You're the only one lor me. Drop in and surprise me anytime. Love Kenyon 
To the sweet Serenaders-­
Thank you for the gppdnight 
wishes. 
From your admiring audience last night. 
Valerie is a sex goddess! 
Stephanie­
1'11 lay your carpet anytime. 
Love, 
The Carpetman 
Perry Osborne, 
Now that you'll be 21 soon, do you still want that 8-foot inflatable doll you asked for last year? You know, 21 brings responsibility upon you. NOT. Countdown now begins 
Hungarians are on the rise, so everyone beware. I suppose the tremendous football battle next weekend will be worth the wait. Hey, now that the love tree has been chopped down, what'llbe planted? ­
Waiting for George ..... 

AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
Eaet Dlvlelon  
w  L  Pet  
Toronto  85  62  .578  
Baltimore  81  64  .559  
Milwaukee  79  65  .549  
Cleveland  69  76  .476  
N-York  69  77  .473  
Detroit  68  78  .466  
Boston  65  79  .451  
Weal Dlvlel on  
w  L  Pet  
Oakland  89  57  .610  
Minnesota  80  66  .548  
Chicago  78  67  .538  
Texas  71  77  .480  
Calnomia  66  79  .455  
Kansas C~y  63  82  .434  
Seanle  56  90  .364  

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Eaet Dlvlelon 

w L Pet Pittsburgh 84 61 .579 Montreal 81 64 .559 St. Louis 72 71 .503 Chicago 71 73 .493 N-York 65 79 .451 Philadelphia 59 84 .413 Weet Dlvlelon 
W L Pet Atlanta 88 56 .611 Cincinnati 78 67 .538 San Diego 76 68 .528 Houston 70 76 .479 San Francisco 64 82 .438 Los Angeles 59 86 .407 
z-denotes first game was a win. Frlday'e Gamee 
Texas at Toronto, 7:35p.m 
Chicago at Cleveland, 7:35 p.m. 
Boston at Detro~. 7:35p.m 
Baltimore at Milwaukee, 8:05 p.m. 

N-York at Kansas City, 8:35p.m. 
Minnesota at CaiNornia. 10:35 p.m. 
Oakland at Seanle, 10:35 p.m. 

GB  ltD  Streak  Home  Away  
6-4  Lost 1  46-26  39-36  
3  4-6  Won 3  4Q-34  41-30  
4 112  z-7-3  Won 4  44-27  35-38  
15  z-7-3  Won 1  37-34  32-42  
15 1/2  z-6-4  Lost 4  37-37  32-40  
16 112  z-5-5  Won 1  32-39  36-39  
18 1/2  z-3-7  Lost 4  40-33  25-46  
GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
z-9-1  Won 9  48-27  41-30  
9  5-5  Lost 3  44-30  36-36  
10 112  z-8-4  Won 3  46-29  32-38  
19  4-6  Lost 1  34-42  37-35  
22 1/2  5-5  Won 2  36-34  3Q-45  
25 1/2  z-3-7  Lost 3  38-33  25-49  
33  0-10  Lost 13  33-39  23-51  
GB  LtO  Streak  Home  Away  
5-5  Lost 1  45-27  39-34  
3  6-4  Won 2  39-35  42-29  
11  z-6-4  Won I  39-34  33-37  
12 112  3-7  Won I  37-33  34-40  
181/2  3-7  Lost 1  35-33  3Q-46  
24  5-5  Lost 2  36-39  23-45  
GB  L10  Streak  Home  Away  
z-9-1  Won 1  45-26  43-30  
10 1/2  z-5-5  Lost 1  45-24  33-43  
12  z-4-6  Lost 2  41-32  35-36  
19  5-5  Won 3  42-33  28-43  
25  4-6  Lost 3  38-35  26-47  
29 1/2  z-5-5  Won 2  36-38  23-48  

St. Louis at Chicago, 3:20p.m. San Diego at Cincinnati, 7:35 p.m. Philadelphia at Pinsburgh, 7:35 p.m Houston at Atlanta, 7:40p.m. Montreal at N-York, 7:40p.m. Los Angeles at San Francisco, 10:35 p.m. 
TRANSACTIONS 
FOOTBALL 
National Football League 

CLEVELAND BROWNS-Signed Mike Tom­
czak, quarterback, to a one-year contract. Placed 
Bernie Kosar, quarterback, on Injured reserve. 
Waived Odie Harris, defensive back. Signed Bob 
Dahl, tackle, to the practice squad. Released Frank 
Kmet, nose tackle, from the practice squad. 
GREEN BAY PACKERS-Signed Danny Noo­
nan .. defensive lineman. Waived Don Davey, de· 
fensiVe end. 

KANSAS CITY CHIEFS-Signed Joe Staysniak, 
offensive lineman. Placed Derrick Graham, often· 
sive tackle, on Injured reserve. Signed Michael 
Sm~h. wide receiver, and Ron Goetz, linebacker, to 
the practice squad. Released Pellom McDaniels 
defensive end, from the practice squad. ' 
LOS ANGELES RAIDERS-Waived Derrick 
Gainer, running back. Re-signed Tom Benson, 
linebacker. 

LOS ANGELES RAMS-Claimed Anthony 
Thompson, running back, off waivers from the 
Phoenix Cardinals. Piaced Troy Stradford, running 
back, on Injured reserve. 

MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Acquired Keith Hen­derson, running back, from the San Francisco 49ers for an undisclosed drah choice. Waived Ronnie West, running back. 
PHOENIX CARDINALS-Placed Tlmm Rosen· bach, quarterback, on Injured reserve. Signed KeHh Rucker, defensive lineman, from the practice squad. Signed Alphonso Taylor, defensive line· man, to the practice squad. 
PITISBURGH STEELERS-Signed Albert Bent­ley, running back. Waived Alan Hailer, cornerback. SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS-5igned Chris Dres­sel, tight end. 
SEATTLE SEAHAWKS-Released Keith Millard defensive end. Signed Natu Tuatagaloa, defensiv~ end. 
TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS-Signed Todd Harrison, tight end. Signed Kirk Kirkpatrick, tight end, to the practice squad. Released Mazio Roys­ter, running back, and Willie Culpepper, wide re­ceiver, from the practice squad. Canadian Football League 
OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Wayne Walker and Tyrone Shavers, wide receivers. and Andr-Wlillx. offensive llnAm..n 
sunday 
WEEKEND 
SPORTS 

Men's and Women's Soccer at Michigan State VolleybaU at Purdue Invitational 
Florida
Purduew. 

Football 
•.::dFiiF ~~~~~~~ffan State 
· :;;;:.::;;~~~~ at Purdue Invitational .,. w¥ vs. Montana 
Women's Soccer vs. Dayton 
-:(};y': 

3 onAI . F' ld 
1,,,"';<,.> : v-, ,umnr 1e 
" ::111 Men's Soccer vs. LaSalle 1 :00-Aiumni Field 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 
CAMPUS MlNisrRY... 
. .... CoNSIDERATIONS 
Holy Cross Education 
. 

Beginning this evening, and carrying on throughout the weekend, a large group of Holy Cross priests, brothers, and sisters, plus their lay colleagues from a variety of Holy Cross schools across the country, will meet together at Moreau Seminary for a conference commemorating the "Sesquicentennial of Holy Cross Education in the United States." Distinguished speakers such as Rev. J. Bryan Hehir of the Harvard University Center for International Affairs and the Most Reverend John R. Quinn, Archbishop of San Francisco, will help these educators to reflect upon the situation of American Catholic education today, and its call for the future, and the particular charism that Holy Cross educational institutions may bring to this ministry. 
After more than a year of trying to pronounce the word "sesquicentennial," most people around here are aware that Father Sarin started Notre Dame in 
1842, shortly after arriving from France as a missionary to the New World. What may be less clear to some is that this University is but one school among many that have been founded and guided by Holy Cross religious across the United States for the.last one hundred and fifty years. Scores of primary and secondary schools have served the needs of towns and parishes from New England to California. A variety of colleges and universities have been established to meet the advanced educational needs of the American Catholic population throughout our country. Notre Dame and St. Mary's College are perhaps the most widely known here in the Midwest, but the University of Portland in Oregon, St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas, King's College in Pennsylvania, Stonehill College in Massachusetts, Holy Cross College in New Hampshire and Our Lady of Holy Cross in New Orleans were all also founded by Holy Cross religious and are equally treasured by their students and alums. 
What these schools all share is the guiding Holy Cross charism and a basic desire to bring disciplined scholarship and a passionate devotion for truth to bear as the necessary underpinnings for fruitful service of the church and the world. 
Some of the topics at this weekend's conference over there at Moreau include "The challenge of evangelization in a secular society," "the gospel and culture," and "evangelization and education for justice." It seems there will be no backing off from the fact that Holy Cross education must be distinctive and provocative, and guided by the Gospel. 
Some years ago the governing council of the Holy Cross priests and brothers declared that their "mission" in all their works, whether schools or parishes or hospitals or whatever, was to ( 1) call forth the experience of community amongst peoples and with God, in an increasingly alienating world, and (2) to guide all action by an option for the poor. 
This declaration seems more and more relevant by the day . 
As we watch the nightly news and rue the escalation of ethnic violence and tension, when we see blanket-wrapped bodies of countless people who starved to death carelessly tossed into heaps in the back of broken-down pickup trucks, while we contemplate with fear and sadness the fate of our inner cities, it appears that education guided by religious principles is desperately needed and must become even more clear in its focus. The Notre Dame claim to want to educate the whole person must 
become ever more effective. The world is more secularized; cultures more and more interact; justice appears more and more elusive for a wide spectrum of society. Hence, our many gifts must be more precisely and effectively shared, in keeping with our deepest sense of mission, for the benefit of all, and our education directed to the service of those most alienated and in need. We should pray for those dedicated teachers and administrators of Holy Cross who will gather this weekend for conversation and prayer at Moreau Seminary. We must hope that they will more deeply embrace their own charism, and perceive new and more persuasive ways to pursue their mission of education and service. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. Sept. 19  5:00p.m.  Rev. Mark Thesing, C.S.C.  
Sun. Sept. 20  lO:OOa.m.  Rev. Terence Linton,C.S.C.  
11:45a.m.  Rev.Stephen Newton, C.S.C.  


eet1ngs 
ponsors: 
RCIA 
Sunday, 4:00 p.m. 
CONFIRMATION 
Sunday, 5:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room LaFortune 
r:::September 18, 1992 : Defense vital if Jets are to avoid third straight loss 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) -The work of the defen­sive backs will be anything but secondary when the New York Jets play their home opener Sunday against the San Fran­cisco 49ers. 
With both teams boasting su­perb, deep receiving units, the performances by the players in the secondary will be of pri­mary concern. The 49ers (1-1) rank 25th in the league in pass defense, and their backs were burned for 403 yards and three touchdowns by Buffalo's Jim Kelly in a 34-31 loss last Sun­day. 
The Jets' pass defense num­bers aren't as bad, mainly be­cause they haven't stopped the run in going 0-2. When an NFL team has success on the ground~ it doesn't throw often. 
The Jets will be without their best pass rusher, defensive end Jeff Lageman, who is out for the year with torn knee liga­ments. 
"Buffalo got to them because Kelly was exceptional, the best I have ever seen him play," Jets coach Bruce Coslet said of the 49ers' defense. "And they were still right in it at the end." 
The 49ers couldn't deal with all the looks shown by the Bills' no-huddle attack. They won't see quite so many befuddling formations from the Jets, although they will be up against just as formidable a set of re­ceivers. They likely won't see quarterback Browning Nagle, either. He has a bruised right index finger, so Ken O'Brien figures to start. 
"We knew they were going to come out and try a lot of differ­ent sets," 49ers cornerback Eric Davis said of the Bills. "But they were able to get in the zones and get the yardage. 
"Everybody is going to grow up playing games like those. You'll learn." 
San Francisco defensive backs coach Jeff Fisher learned that Davis, rookie Dana Hall, inexperienced Merton Hanks and David Whitmore, and vet­erans Don Griffin and Thane Gash haven't mastered their lessons yet. 
"Communication in a young secondary is the key," Fisher said. "There was some uncer­tainty at times." 
Hall had an especially tough time against the Bills. But that's over. 
"If you're dwelling on the past play, you're going to get beat on the next play," he said. 
After dealing with Andre Reed, James Lofton, Don Beebe, etc., Hall and the 49ers must contend with Rob Moore, AI Toon, Chris Burkett, Terance Mathis and Rob Carpenter, anothr difficult task. 
The Observer page 17 


touchdowns, and Odessa Turner's two catches for 80 yards included a 23-yard score. 
"They make a lot of yards with long runs after the catch," said James Hasty, the Jets' best defensive back. 
"I don't know ifyou would say they are better than every team, but they are one of the best. It's no secret. Everybody knows how good they are." 

PICKUPQNLY $1 off any 12" or 14" Pizza $2 off 16" or 18" Pizza 
OnlytMdlcllisad 

52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 
must be 21 years old 9.-2 

"As far as Dana is concerned, what we ask our safeties to do we will continue asking him to do," coach George Seifert said. 
"He is going through an edu­cation now. We've started rookies in the secondary before and had mixed results early. We're suffering with that, par­ticlarly last week. With each game, Dana has to mature even more. We think he has the 
Ram's sign former Indiana standout Thompson 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -The Los Angeles Rams picked up their fourth veteran and second running back in three weeks, claiming former Indiana All­American Anthony Thompson on waivers from the Phoenix Cardinals. 
To make room for Thompson on their 4 7 -man roster, the talent we need and it's just a matter of getting the job done." 
While the defensive backs haven't done much for San Francisco, the receivers have been superb. Even with Jerry Rice sidelined early against Buffalo with a concussion, the 49ers had 439 yards passing. 
Mike Sherrard caught six passes for 159 yards, John Tay­lor had five for 112 and two 
Rams placed running back Troy Stradford on injured reserve. Stradford, who has a toe injury, was claimed from Kansas City shortly before the regular season. 
The 31st player taken in the 1990 draft, Thompson finished second behind Houston quar­terback Andre Ware in the 1989 Reisman Trophy balloting. A durable back, the 6-foot, 210­pounder led the nation in rushing as a senior at Indiana with 1,793 yards and ended his career with an NCAA-record 68 touchdowns. 
He never did live up to expec­
~GIANT 
~~1/PCbtllcd 

In the dty... On the road... Or in the mountains... 
tations in Phoenix, and found himself sitting on the bench at the start of his third season. 
Thompson asked the Cardi­nals to trade him after he did not play during the team's 31­14 loss to Philadelphia on Sun­day night. When a trade couldn't be worked out and Thompson's name hit the waiver wires, the Rams decided to take a look. 
"He comes highly recom­mended by a lot of scouts," Rams coach Chuck Knox said. "He's had a couple of 100-yard games. And he's just a third­year guy who was very highly rated coming out of college. 

Giant® takes your cycling seriously. 
Giant bicydes are designed, engineered and crafted to be your predsely right choice. They're easy to ride, easy to enjoy and easy to afford ... Let us help you choose the one that fits your cycling needs. 
ONE Of MICHIANA'S LARGEST BICYCLE DEALERS­

CYCLING & FITNESS 2720 LINCOLNWAY WEST MISHAWAKA, INDIANA 46544 Phone: 255-8988 ( 1 112 blocks east of Ironwood.) 

,....--------------------~-------~---~---~­
page 18 The Observer 
Drexler's knee surgery successful 

OREGON CITY, Ore. (AP) -Hospital after the surgery was said. "He was a little bit late but Portland Trail Blazers guard performed, Drexler slipped out I think he was very comfortable 
Clyde Drexler underwent a back door without talking to with everything." arthroscopic surgery on his reporters. Cook said it would be six to 12 right knee Thursday with an Cook said Drexler was weeks before Drexler is back at early prognosis saying he pleased to erase the uncertainty full strength, but he will resume should be playing basketball in over the persistent soreness. exercising in just a few days three to six weeks. "He was his usual mellow self and could be playing basketball 
"We found a small area of coming in this morning," Cook in three to six weeks. cartilage erosion on the outer weight-bearing surface of the joint," Dr. Robert Cook said. "We smoothed it down and took out a few cartilage fragments. I'm happy, pleased and think he will do very well." 
Drexler injured the knee in a game against New York on March 29. He was bothered by soreness throughout the re­mainder of the season, the playoffs and his play with the 
U.S. Olympic team. 

Drexler went through a series of strenuous exercises over the last couple of weeks, running sprints and running through the hills near his home, Cook said. The idea was to test the knee and see if there was any swelling. When swelling did occur, the decision was made to go ahead with the surgery. 
Drexler, an all-star last sea­son, has had a remarkably in­jury-free nine-year career with the Blazers. Coach Rick Adel­man already had intended to let Drexler rest through much of the exhibition season to allow him to recover from his play in the Olympics. 
While Cook spoke with re­porters at Willamette Falls 
~-----~-·~--~ .... ~--~-~~--­
Friday, September 18, 1992 
·to 
BOULDER, Colo. (AP) -Col-string during much of the pre 1:lrado quarterback Kordell season. 
tewart, the nation's second­"The last two weeks the ac ranked passer, will not make curacy of his passing, in m ~he trip to Minnesota for Satur­estimation, has been particu day night's game because of a larly good;' McCartney said. sprained left foot. 
Junior Duke Tobin, who re­Backing up Tobin on Saturda placed the injured Stewart in wUl be freshman Koy Detmer the second half of last week's whom the Buffs still hope t game at Baylor and completed redshirt, and junior Vane 10 of 15 passes-for 154 yards Joseph, whose sore arm stil and one touchdown, will start. won't allow him to throw long Colorado scored on four pos­McCartney said Joseph "coul sessions under his direction. do some things" in the Min 
nesota game if needed. 

Stewart. a sopb'O'more who has completed 37' of 53 passes Tobin, who transferred to C {or 660 yards 'Y.ith seven from Illinois last fall, has bee touchdowns and one intercep" plagued by interceptions durin tion for the 11th-ranked Buf-his brief career at Colorado. H faloes, did not practice Tuesday threw seven in last spring' or Wednesday~ Coach Bill M~;~ final two scrimmages, two mor Cartney has a policy of riot in the final scrimmage befor playing a player ifhe doesn't CU's opener, and one at Baylo practice ~~fore Th11r·sday 2t that was returned 46 yards fo ga.111eweek:·•··•:•·:..... •A!.i' .;;j!!lfiF'1'1'·11'. a score; 
. "It's still sore right now," Stewart said...1 could play, but I'm .taking prect'f. s. l'lt get treatment and c back and be 100 percent forJowa (next
week)." ...,..,. 
':·'··:·:;:::@%~:=· 

''Stewart will make the trip," McCartney S!).id. "If he continues toimprov~~ we could conceivably have)him next week for Iowa. He's too tender 
tight now." ,. ····••·· 
Tobin, who will be making hi$ first start since high school in 198_8, was runni:qg fourth­
····=······· · ·n¥t:=·· 
"I made some wrong reads, Tobin said of his spring woes He accepted responsibility fo the interceptions, "even if the (ref~ivers). are not running th preeise routes. I've got to thro it away. I can't go ahead an throw an interception." 
His Baylor p~'Ff'ormad~ boosted his confidence, bow ever. "I think after last wee they (CU roaches) realize t .(: step in and move the team," h said. 
Marino proves he's the comeback master rr==========~ 
Attention Logan Volunteers! 
MIAMI (AP) -Dan Marino said. "You want to complete penalty on Cleveland stopped 
gets a special thrill from pulling them all and get into a rhythm the clock with 10 seconds left, out a game in the fmal minute. and get it going. You don't want Mark Higgs hulled in for the He did it again Monday night, a situation where it's fourth and score. 
We will be bowling today. 
engineering an 84-yard drive 10. That's what makes it 
Van pick-up at 3:45p.m. at the P.W.
that produced the winning tough." "Guys stepped up and made touchdown with seven seconds With 37 seconds left, Marino plays," Marino said. "They 
circle. There's a dance tonight-meet 
left as the Miami Dolphins won hit Fred Banks for 22 yards. seemed to want to make it hap­at Cleveland, 27-23. When the Browns were penal­pen. That makes it a lot easier 
at the main circle at 6:45p.m. Rec 
"It was fun to accomplish ized 15 yards for roughing the on the quarterback." 
tomorrow-main circle at 8:45 a.m.
that," Marino said. "After we passer, Miami had the ball at Los Angeles Rams coach scored, it was a great feeling. Cleveland's 19. Chuck Knox was among mil­
or walk to Logan at the corner of
It's tough to describe, but that's lions of TV viewers who kind of what it's all about. You A field goal would have forced watched the exciting finish. 
Eddy and Angela. don't want to be in the situa­an overtime, but Marino wanted Knox, whose team plays at Mi­tion, but if you are, you want to the touchdown. He hit Banks ami on Sunday, didn't need a 
Questions?
make the most of it." over the middle at the 1-foot reminder that Marino is dan­It was a remarkable come­line, and after an encroachment gerous with the game in doubt. 
Call Allie x3873 or Juliet x4825
back led by a quarterback 
known for fourth-quarter heroics throughout his 10-year career. Marino reversed the game's momentum after Cleveland had sent the crowd into a frenzy by rallying from a 20-3 deficit with eight minutes to go. 
For the 19th time, Marino brought Miami from behind in the fourth quarter to win. He did it last season against Chicago and Green Bay. He has done it eight times on the road. 
"The thing that has made him a great quarterback through the years is the ability to produce in pressure situations," Miami coach Don Shula said. "fJe's as good as I've been around. You've got Joe Montana and some other people that have had pretty impressive heroics throughout their career, but Dan is right there with them." 
When Marino took the field for the final time Monday night, the Dolphins trailed 23-20 with 7 5 seconds remaining. 
"Time for Marino to work his magic," Shula said later. 
Marino began by completing passes of 19 yards to Mark Duper and 9 yards to Bobby Humphrey. That moved the ball to Miami's 44. 
In the hurry-up offense, suc­cess on the first couple of plays is crucial, Marino said. 
"It does feed on itself," he 

THE DINING HALLS HAVE IMPLEMENTED YOUR SUGGESTIONS! 
LIGHT MIRACLE WHIP NEW VEGETARIAN ITEMS MORE LIGHTER FARE YOUR FAVORITE CEREALS FROZEN YOGURT 
MORE SANDWICHES AT DINNER 5 ALIVE 



-----~-~--------------------~-~-~~ ~-------­ 
-­ - ~-~ ~­-------­ --~-­-­-~----.......---­ 
Friday, September 18, 1992  The Observer  
page 19  

..----------­


The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Senior captain Karen Lorton is a main reason that the Belles have improved from last season. 

R Just Call For Free Delivery R 
Large 15" Pepperoni 
Pizza 
FRESH! 
FAST! ONLY 
HOT! 


699 
Call Now! 
SMC volleyball faces difficult foes 
By EILEEN MCGUIRE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team will travel to Ohio this weekend to compete in the Baldwin-Wallace College tour­nament. 
This tournament will give Saint Mary's the chance to see many Ohio Division III teams in action. Many of these teams are experienced national con­tenders, forcing the Belles to prepare themselves for tough matches. 
"Spring Arbor College will participate in this tournament. We played them earlier in the season at the Kalamazoo invi­tational," explained Belles 
Issue of Giant's buyers moves into court 
FRESH! 
FAST! 
HOT! 

coach Schroeder-Biek. "They knocked us out of the semi-fi­nals but it was a very close match. They went on to win the tournament," she concluded. 
The two day tournament (Friday-Saturday} will allow the Belles to participate in four matches. They must end up in the top three out of the five­team pool to advance to the fi­nals. There a single-elimination procedure will determine the champion. 
One team the Belles will face is Baldwin-Wallace College. The team possesses eight re­turners anda solid bench. Last season, BWC went 23-11, giving them their eighth 20-win season in their last ten cam-
craziness." 
The local investors, led by NBA Charlotte Hornets owner George Shinn, said they needed legal protection before they could finalize their offer and submit it to National League president Bill White. White has asked for a formal order by the end of the month. 
Giants owner Bob Lurie last month announced he had agreed in principle to sell the team to a group of Florida in­vestors who want to move the team to St. Petersburg's Sun­coast Dome. 
City attorney Louise Renne, who has said that the risk to the city from the indemnity agreement was minimal, on Wednesday said the coalition's suit was completely without merit. 
"We believe that the Board of Supervisors and the mayor were within their full legal au­thority to adopt the indemnity agreement," she said. Mayor Frank Jordan had urged the board to pass the agreement and signed it as soon as it did. 
"The board and the mayor determined that the indemnity 
KURZ 
continued from page 24 
back the holdout with open arms when he finally does show up (out of shape} for a game. 
A word of advice to Keith Jackson: stop with the de­mands for $2 million, take what the club's giving you and play football. Because if you 

Secondary Education Majors Meeting 

MANDATORY r all current and new stu­dents of the department 
Tuesday, September 22 6:00-7:30 p.m. SMC Science Bldg. 
Room 105 
Saint Mary's 
paigns. 
"We know they will be strong, but we understand what we need to do to defeat them,"said Schroeder-Biek. "Many of our mistakes (in the game against Concordia} were due to double coverage. Too much space was left open on the court." 
Last season, the Belles played two of the top teams in the na­tion and were able to stay com­petitive. This season, with an evidently stronger team, Saint Mary's expects a more success­ful finish. 
"If we play up to our poten­tial, then we will do very well this weekend," promised Schroeder-Biek 
agreement served a valid public purpose," said Renne. Con­sequently, she added, their ac­tions were within the law. 
But Wahl said the supervi­sors' vote violates the city's charter in that it should have been an ordinance instead of a resolution. It also violates the charter in that there was no certification by the city con­troller that there is any money to pay for legal costs or dam­ages stemming from any law­suit against the investors, he said. 
"There's also a problem of making a gift of public credit," Wahl said, adding that such a gift is forbidden by California's constitution. Such gifts are al­lowed only if they serve a public .. purpose. 
"But I think (the supervisors) are hard pressed ... how our purpose is advanced by this gift," Wahl said. 
Also on Wednesday, St. Louis Cardinals president Fred Kuhlmann said the baseball ownership committee has tem­porarily stopped its examina­tion of the St. Petersburg group attempting to buy the Giants. 
don't sign, and the Eagles ac­tually win the Super Bowl, you won't get a ring. And after all, that's what pro football should be about-winning, not whin­ing. 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 'vOUR LIFE 
American Heart ftt Association V 


r 
i page 20 
I 
~ i ·Despite loss, ingletary feels 
i 
Bear's are a good football team
l 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. (AP) 

l ~ 
aybe it's· wishful thinking on e Singletary's part since this s his 12th and fmal year with he Chicago Bears. 
After Sunday's 2~h6 loss to he New Orleans Saints, the ine-year All-Pro middle inebacker and defensive cap­
ain said, "We're a g~od football,,,, we're a .good team,:·:·t earn, possibly a great team." . ; The Bears have been burne 
Singletary was insistent ·ev~n-· by big plays in each of their tw hough the Bears had to· pull games. ut a 27~24 last·play victo\-Y in < "We .have to ovf;)~t;ome that. he opener against Detroit and ]lt..Singletary said. ''}'),\ere, are n ven though they Jell flat ,: easy answers, just h~d work." gainst the Saints to mark the Singletary bristled at the sug 
rst time since l982 that gestion of a Bears comeback ·cago hasn't be~n.offto a 2-0 "We 't been 
here t tart. 7• ··• ·• •• ,,;,;,,11 · ,,,, ;w;: come h " he s "We're good becau8e'·we do a· Although he insisted this i ot of things right and we're not definitely his last year. Single 
etting beat physically," he tary is right back where he b13 ·.aid. "We can possibly be grea ngsli~eadJng tA~ Bear~,,t f we don't do a lot of dum ackles with 17 including fiv 
ings. We're not there right unassisted tackles against th ow, but we'll get there." Saints. 
.. :.said the loss t\};~~~: ~a~~ff/ hi:~i!t~~~!~!~~~~ ~!~ oc~~: "I'll feel better in "a few days······ Mike Ditka. ··· ·'"~'·· hen we can put this loss be-Singletary has led the team i 
• d us," he said. tackles the last two seasons an 
Singletary said he is thankfulrbas beenJlrst or sec.?Il.don hat the next garne,3W<m't be :.:::B:'/team tnfllli$l .. 10 se~s(}nS;:.· .. ·. 
..,:,:,:,.. :.. . ,·:.·=·:·:.·· 
SMU football struggles to rebound 
DALLAS (AP) -Southern Methodist athletic director For­rest Gregg hopes marketing will help turn around attendance at the Mustangs' football games and clear up questions about the program's future. 
"We are doing about every­thing we can do from that standpoint," Gregg said Wednesday. "Sometimes you think you're not doing any good, but it comes into play later down the line." 
SMU, still struggling to re­bound from the death penalty, has averaged only 12,650 fans at its first two home games this season. 
The sagging attendance comes as a school-appointed task force studies ways to re­duce the athletic department's projected $4.5 million budget deficit. 
But Gregg said ticket sales will not be considered by the panel, which has heard discus­sions on whether to drop the football team into Division I-AA or even consider eliminating the once-proud program. 
"Those are things that have certainly been talked about, but we're not addressing them right now," Gregg said. "I think you have to look at it historically. You can't go based on what's happening right now." 
In two home games, the Mustangs (1-1) have drawn a total of 25,300. Ownby Sta­dium holds 23,783. 
. This season's average is well behind last year's mark of 18,330. That was a drop of more than 2,000 from the previous year and almost 4,000 less than the average in 1989, SMU's first year back from the death penalty. 
"Where we are right now is about where we expected to be," said Gregg, who starred at SMU in the mid 1950s and re­turned to coach the football team in 1989 and 1990. 
"We base our budget not on pie in the sky, but on what we consider reality. We're certainly within the range of our projection for the year." 
The Mustangs' main problem is that they have yet to regain the supporters they lost when they were penalized by the NCAA in 1987. It was the until Monday night; when th Bears play the New York Gian on national television. 
"It will give us an extra day t get all the hurt out, a chance t gel and a chance to get thing right again," he said. "It's good opportunity for us to mak things happen and show peopl 
The Ponies have won only five games since returning from their two-year hiatus and are winless in 24 Southwest Conference games. 
Gregg said more than 40,000 tickets already have been sold for an Oct. 31 game against No. 5 Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. He also expects large crowds for homecoming against Houston and the Texas Christian game. 
The school has run an ag­gressive marketing campaign to sell tickets for this season's five home games. The slogan is "A 
The Observer Friday, September 18, 1992 
Truce called between Clemens, Boggs 
BOSTON (AP) -The super­power summit produced a truce. 
Roger Clemens goes for his 19th victory tonight without wondering if there is a saboteur -Wade Boggs -behind his back. The two baseball greats declared peace after their 25­minute closed-door conference Wednesday. 
"They shook hands," said Boston manager Butch Hobson, who attended the session. 
Clemens shook up the already unsteady Red Sox season Tuesday night when he said he had lost respect for Boggs after the third baseman questioned being charged with an error. The call then was changed to a hit. 
That tacked two earned runs onto Clemens' record, boosting his earned run aver­age from 2.24 to 2.31, still the best in the American League. But it didn't help his chances for a fourth Cy Young Award. 
Clemens thought Boggs should have been a better teammate and not questioned an official scoring decision that might hurt his quest. 
After their meeting, Boggs 
proud past ... an even brighter future." 
"We want to let people know we're here and that we have a good product. We spent the en­tire offseason doing that," Gregg said. 
Gregg said the low early-sea­son attendance can be blamed on opponents Tulane and North Texas, neither of which have large followings. 
"When you play a nationally known team, you get people who are interested in seeing them play. 
and Clemens said the issue was behind them. 
"Everything's fine," Boggs said. ''I've got Roger's respect back. That's all I need." 
"I appreciate Butch bringing us together and stopping it at a point where there was no bit­terness," Clemens said. 
Clemens (18-9) is scheduled to pitch tonight in the fmale of a four-game series with Milwau­kee as Boston continued its ef­forts to escape the AL East basement. 
Boggs' playing status was uncertain. He missed the last two games with a stiff back and was slightly hunched over as he walked around the clubhouse Wednesday. 
"It's over and done with," Hobson said. "Roger's going to go try to win No. 19 (Thursday) night, and if Wade's back's all right, he's going to try to get four hits to help him win No. 19." 
The play that sparked the feud was Tony Phillips' hard ground ball between Boggs and third base in the fifth inning of Detroit's 9-5 win Saturday. It was a difficult play and even Clemens said Wednesday he 
c---50fOFYINrMENUITEM 
EXCEPT KID'S CUPS. ~iC&D'tBeUneiraQ 1635 Edison Roa~ Yod-11~! 
South Bend D~ (2 blocks east of ND Stadium) 
.Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon percustomer per visit. Offer good :only at addms above. Not valid in combination with any other offer. Expires 9125/92.
L--------------------------------------------------­
Made from scratch Italian Pizza and Pasta 
Call for Reservations 288-3320 
•Banquet Rooms Available• 
GO ND!! BEAT MICHIGAN STATE!! 
A GIFT FOR YOU 
ESTEE LAUDER AROUND TOWN 
Your seven-piece gift with any Estee Lauder purchase of 15.00 or more. 
thought it was a hit. 

Official scorer Charles Scog­gins ruled it was an error, then changed the decision after talk­ing with Boggs. Clemens was upset when he heard from a teammate that Boggs had a role in the change. 
"I'm sure when anger comes in ... things are going to be said," Boggs said. 
Clemens said the team's struggles and the fact its two biggest names -and probable future Hall of Famers -were the central figures magnified the controversy. 
Hobson said neither player showed anger at the meeting. 
"They both reassured each other that they would protect each other at any cost, no mat­ter what," he said. "They're professionals and they're gentlemen. I wouldn't have ever expected one of them to walk in and start screaming at the other." 
"When you get cards out on the table and talk about it, it's over and done with," Clemens said. "We'll go on to try to finish up the season strong, look forward to next year. It's been frustrating on everybody." 

boosters' overzealous support which caused the harsh pun­ishment. 
AT HUDSON'S 9/17/92 to 10/3/92 

Friday, September 18, 1992 The Observer page 21 

ver 40 Years o Notre Dame Tradition at Patrick J. Sheehan'55 Daniel H. James'78 Mark T. Greifenkamp'83 Scott D. Esposito'89 William J. Dunn'65 Edmund D. Dsilva'78 Brian P. Kieman'84 Guy G. Weismanter'90 Douglas J. Cassidy'67 John Hennessy '78 Mary Ni'84 Scott D. Miller'90 ·William J. McGovem'67 Adam t. Szczepanski'79 Daniel E. Lafreniere'85 Amy L. Raczkowski'91 Paul J. Zaleski'68 John J. Clark'80 Kay M. Wigton'85 DavidS. Bamard'91 Thomas E Scully'68 Orner Charles Allen'80 Heather E. O'Shea'86 James J. J:itzgerald'91 Andrew Gore'71 Victor R. Miller'80 Kathleen A. Deegan'86 Mary Ann Cenedella'91 Gary J. Gardner'71 James A. Cour'81 Kathryn D. Weber'86 Simon Herbert'91 John E. Matthews'72 Aleyda Ham'82 Robert C. Kill'86 Cesar B. Capella'92 Lawrence A. Rohrer72 Csey m. Tansey'82 Gina M. Farabaugh'87 Gil Gomez'92 Mark L. Vuturo'72 Daniel R. Pearl'82 Roberto J Rodriguez'87 Janice M. Albers'92 Donald E. Reising'73 Michelle A. Yoder'82 Thomas M. McCabe'87 Jon W. Stewart'92 James E. Stuart'74 Stephen J. Cichy'82 John Souter'88 Lisa L. McGriff'92 John E Gaither'7 4 Thomas K. Turley'82 Mary K . Ladone'88 Peter D. Overheu'92 Robert J. Przybelski'7 6 Anne M. Craven'83 Colleen Sullivan'89 Michael Palmieri'77 Jeanette R. Staiger'83 James Post'89 Thomas D. Sheffield'77 Joan M. Finnessy'83 Louis Mayle'89 Join the Leader in the Health Care Industry Submit your resumes to Career & Placement by 5 p.m. Sept. 22, 1992  

Questions? Call Heather at 284-5103 or Cathy lit 283-4998. 
The campus 2-person golf scnlmble will take pla()e on September 27, The tournamentis open .to all students, faculty and staff. Sign· up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. ·" . 
7f~t~~ :: ...,,,~_v,(x::~·,,...,.. ·:=~!dW~{:)~ :' ..:,: ..:.n@h;: ND Varsity Hockey ts looki~g for stltti~tict~~s andVideotapers for the upcoming season. Anyone interested 
lease call assistant coach Jim Johnson at 239-5227>;,'''''· · 
Charges against WR Clark dropped 
ROCKVILLE, Md. (AP) ­Prosecutors today dropped auto theft and other charges against Washington Redskins wide re­ceiver Gary Clark. 
The Montgomery County State's Attorney's Office re­leased a statement saying it be­lieved that if the case went to trial, Clark would be acquitted of the charges against him. 
Montgomery County circuit court judge C.J. Vaughey Jr. then granted the prosecutor's request to drop the charges. 
Clark had been charged with 
MEMORIAL PRAYER SERVICE FOR PROFESSOR MARK SEARLE SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 4:00P.M. REGINA HALL CHAPEL 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY-239-7811 
felony auto theft and possession of a vehicle with a defaced se­rial number. He was arrested Aug. 11 following a traffic stop by Maryland State police for al­legedly speeding on Interstate 270 in Rockville. 
Clark denied any wrongdoing. He told authorities that he bought the 1992 Nissan Pathfinder he was driving from a friend who offered him a good deal. Officials learned later that a 1992 Nissan Maxima, which Clark had given to his mother, had been stolen. 
Ismail decides to pay his penance 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) -Rocket Ismail agreed Thursday to make a $10,000 charitable donation rather than be suspended and fined for kicking an opponent in a Canadian Football League melee involving the Toronto Argonauts and Calgary Stam­peders. 
Ismail will donate his fine to the Special Olympics chapter of Ontario after accepting a rec­ommendation by CFL commis­sioner Larry Smith. 
The commissioner gave Ismail the choice between a one-game suspension and $1,000 fine or the charitable donation. 
Smith also fined four other Argos, including head coach Adam Rita, and Andy McVey of the Stampeders for their roles in the second-half brawl at the Toronto bench last Sunday. 
"These are clearly the actions of an irate child," Smith said of Ismail. "This is the biggest fine levied in the history of our league." 
Ismail will be allowed to play Saturday in Vancouver against the B.C. Lions. 
"I find it completely unac­ceptable behavior and won't condone it," Smith said. "Football is a game of con­trolled aggression and, once you go beyond that point, you fall over the cliff. There's no place. in sports for people who can't control themselves." 
Rita was fined $500 for ex­hibiting poor leadership in a tight situation; Argos safety Dave Van Bellegham was fmed $350 for instigating the inci­dent; Toronto receiver David Williams was fined $250 for abusive behavior and Argos re­ceiver Darrell Smith was fined $500 for vulgarity. McVey was fined $250 for unacceptable behavior. 
Ismail twice kicked McVey while the Calgary player wres­tled with Van Bellegham. Ismail also attempted to jump on McVey's head with both feet, but missed. 
''I'm grateful that I did have the option and I think the sec­ond option was a lot better than the first one because more people can benefit from it," Ismail said. 
Ismail, a former Notre Dame star who signed with Toronto for more than $4 million per year went on community tele­vision after the Calgary game to apologize for his actions. 
"I think it was very unchar­acteristic of Rocket to do what he did," McVey said. "It showed just a lot of frustration . . . an isolated incident." 
... 
<. 
~---------~--------------------------------------------------------~------------------~------------------------------, 
page 22 The Observer 
Friday, September 18, 1992 
."> 
Seniors lead men's tennis into tourney 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Zurcher, Chuck Coleman, and Payumo and Horst Dziura. Sports Writer Will Forsyth, will play in this Freshmen in the "D" flight are weekend's "A" flight, while fel­John Jay O'Brien, Marco Mag­It was a classic cinderella low seniors Mark Schmidt, Ron nano, Andrew Chmura, Brian 
story. 

Rosas, and newcomer Eoin Harris, and Mike Sprouse, who 
An upstart team, riding a Beirne will challenge in the "B" was the number-one ranked wave of emotion to upset three 
flight. player in New England last 
perennial powers and advance Beirne, a native of Dublin, year.to the NCAA finals. This mira­Ireland, is the the most im­cle story could have happened pressive of the new faces He is In the doubles competition,
to any team. 

a transfer from perennial junior the "A" flight will consist of the 
But it happened to Notre 
college powerhouse Anderson teams of Zurcher and Pun and 
Dame, specifically to the men's College in South Carolina. Forsyth and Coleman. Coleman tennis team. 
teamed with DiLucia for one of 
The Irish, led by the premier "He was ranked number-one the nation's top teams last year, 
player in collegiate tennis last in his class, he's real bright," and the team of Forsyth and year, David DiLucia, bulldozed noted Bayliss. "He has done Zurcher was also ranked. number-seven Mississippi State, 
very well." The "B" flight will be led bynumber-three Georgia on its The "C" flight will consist of the tandems of Schmidt and home court, and then number­juniors Tad Eckert, Todd Wil­Wojtalik, Eckert and North, one USC, the defending son, and Tom North along with Sprouse and Payumo, and 
champion, to become the first freshman Jason Pun. Pun is O'Brian and Wilson. cold-weather team to advance from Toronto, Canada, and was "Some of the new guys are 
to the finals since the current 
the fourth-ranked player in really showing that they are team format was adopted in 
Canada last year. ready to step in," said an opti­1977. 
"He has shown real flashes of mistic Bayliss. 
"It happened in a daze," said brilliance this fall," stated Other top teams joining the Notre Dame's sixth-year coach 
Bayliss. Irish this weekend will be Ken­
Bob Bayliss, "We just wanted to Leading the "D" flight will be tucky, which finished ranked play well. It was pretty spe­
senior Chris Wojtalik, and he number five last year, and other cial." 
will be joined by junior Allan top-25 finishers Rice, Indiana,
But now it is back to reality Lopez and sophomores Tony and Ball State. for the Irish and NCAA Coach­
of-the-Year Bayliss. But oh, what a sweet reality it is. 
The Irish return 10 out of their top 11 players and are ready to showcase some new faces as they kick off a new season with this weekend's Tom Fallon Invitational at Notre Dame's Courtney Tennis Center. 
The 16-team tournament will begin at 9 a.m. each day and inclement weather will force play into the Eck Tennis Pavil­ion and the South Bend Racquet Club. Competition will take place in four flights of singles and two flights of doubles, and there will be no team scoring for the meet. 
While DiLucia can be seen in pro tournaments across the nation playing legends like Jimmy Connors, a core of six seniors are ready to lead the Irish into another amazing sea­son. 
Three ranked players, Andy 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM!! 
IRISH MEN'S SOCCER  Free tickets  
vs the LaSalle Explorers  available at  
Sunday,  all Marathon  
September 20  Service Stations  

1:00pm Alumni Field* 

WOMEN'S SOCCER vs Dayton immediately following the Men Is game 3:00pm Alumni Field 
Free Admission 


* Free admission with Blue & Gold Card 
TOTAL LOAN CASH TOTAL LOAN CASH AMOUNT* REBATE AMOUNT" REBATE 
Under $4,000 $10 $20,000---$24,999 $500 $4,000-$5,999 $25 $25,000-$29,999 $675 $6,000-$7,499 $50 $30,000---$34,999 $850 $7,506--$9,999 $100 $35,000-$44,999 $1,100 
$10,000-$12,499 $200 $45,000-$54,999 $1,400 s12,500---$14,999 $275 $55,000---$64,999 $1,700 $15,000---$17,499 $350 $65,000 and above $2,000 $17,500---$19,999 $425 
•cash rebates are paid after graduatton and after 5 full on-time repayments are made Rebates are based on princrpal balance outstanding at gradua110n of all loam obtained from or consolidated with River Forest Bank after August 1, 1992. Undergraduate borrowe~ may defer rebate1 until thetr entire education is completed. Offer available at qualified schools only. Please refer to redemption certificate for complete terms and conditiom 
RIVER FOREST BANK NEVER SELLS ITS STUDENT LOANS! 
To qualify for River Forest Bank's CASH BACK TO GRADUATES program, talk with your school's Financial Aid Adviser, call us toll-free 1-800-345-4325, or mail this form to the address provided below. 
Ir---------------------------------------------------------------,I 
: YES. I want to qualify for a cash rebate on student loans! : 
Please send me an application for:
1 

1  
: I :  0 0  Stafford loans Parent loan for  D 0  Supplemental Loan to Students Cash Back Consolidation Loan  : I :  
1 I  Undergraduate Students  1I  
I :  NAME  r-­ -­ TEUPHONE  I :  
I  I  
I I  STREET ADDRESS  I I  
I  I  
I  I  
II  CITY/STATE/ZIP  I1  
I  I  
I  I  
~  fc:HOOL  ACADEMIC LEVEL  :  
I  I  

L---------------------------------------------------------------~ 


River Forest Bank 
Student Loan Processing Center 
P.O. Box 25586, Chicago. IL 60625-9998 
~ 
LENDER

Member, FDIC. EquaJ Op~rtu.ruty Lender 
The Observer/John Rock Ron Rosas is one of six seniors returning to the men's tennis team. 

Say you saw us in The Observer 
Haircuts $6.00 with Student l.D. 
277,0057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 
ONE·DOZEN 
WNn'''''''''''''''''n'''mmrummnmrrmrm~u~WlWII,'W'm'~
llllllllllllflllflritlrilrilltrillif,JflliiUIHIHIII~II~ f,,JiffJ,.lJ 
STUPENDOUS 

If you can't decide on just one of our meat, seafood or cheese sauces, choose any two of a dozen delectable choices. Being indecisive has never been so rewarding. Entrees include soup or salad and freshly baked San Francisco sourdough bread, and lots of fun. 
s.... 
SpaghettiWarehouse 
Great Italian Food. All-American Fun. 
501 N. Niles Ave. • The Works Hotel: 232-4414 


-~~---· -------~-~­
•
Today 
Friday, September 18, 1992 page 23 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Crossword 
ACROSS 28 Keep apart 1 Varieties of 
32 Better than 2d 

gypsum 33 Courageous 
11 Rene's state of 36 Small amount 
things 37 London area 
14 Pelican State 
native 15 Morning wear 16 Backyard swinger  38 Take a different course 40 Type of radio receiver  63 Like iterations 67 Hauls in 68 Foreman 69 Curve before a  
17 "Cat on--Tin  42 City in S France  tee?  
Roof"  43Ciod  70 Hydra  
18 Art patron Hogg  45 Henri's hockey  
19 Total: Abbr.  stick  DOWN  
20 Detroit duds 22Woad and  46 --de Calais 47 "Cruising" star  1 Chilly 2 Rich, as soil  
madder  49 Early Allen  3 Distinctive  
24 Ram's mate  51 Christian, for  stimuli  
27 Place of refreshment  one 52 Step measure  4 Invitation sOn the QE2  
6 Emulate Bonnie  
Raitt  
7 He makes you  
"it"  
8 Alfonso's queen  l...--'---'-­ 
9Turncoat 10 Dirk of yore  29 Dep.  
.:::+::..j.::::=-.~::t-:~  11 Unitive acts  30 Alpine area  
12 Ends  31 Name in leather  
13-by (values  goods  
highly)  33 Rumor mill  
15Tabula­ 34 Holiday visitors  
~::...j..:..::..j.:::.i  21 Rich-sounding  35 Glaciers  
i!!+::.j.:..:~~~  ruminant 23 Adam's third  37 Emulate Paul Pry 
1~tllll ~.,:...+.:-+~=­ son et al. 25 "Eadie-a  39 Nixon's undoer  
Lady"  41 Prince Valiant's  
g.;.+,::~+;-~  26 Slugger  son  
Slaughter  44 Way off  

Thursday, Sept. 24 
REAL GENIUS 
_.Friday and Saturday, 25 & 26 
~,_,-~w LETHAL WEAPON 3 
..... :-.f ............ ' • c. ... ~ .. ,. ' • , ...... t f ... ' .... ' ' •• " ., ••• " • ' ~ ...... :I' • 
BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
YOU.;:.:' iESMDA.'{ 
'{OU WM-1\ED A NUCLEAR PoW£R£D 
CAR nlt>.T COULD 
TUR~ li'ITO A. JET 'flln\ l.Ast.R-GUlOED 
1-\Ef>..T-'SEEKING 
M\S5lLES ·' 


'{QIJ OR\IJ£

EXCEPT roR Ol(t. 
00\-\, tio'N 
A~ARD

0£\~ll. 5\J~ 
\1\~GGOi-MAN IS 
BARGr>.IN, 
f>.BOVT TO Rt.'-I£A.l

THE P"OT~IW'I\ER 
IX"lt.SKT KEEl' 
FLE~·BMT. 
\-\\5 SB:RET 
li)Et{T\1'{ TO
OJlD? 
A.\'t\f>..Zo~ ·6f..B£! 

Edited by Eugene T. Maleska 
56 City on the Rhone 
58 Bachelor's digs 61 Bagel enhancer 62 "-mouth like 
an old potato ...": Kipling 
No. 0807 


"It's not good, ma'am .... He's got field mice." 
LECTURES 
Friday 
12 p.m. Lecture: "The Problems and Paradoxes of Assisted Suicide," Father Robert Barry, of the Newman Foundation, Universtiy of Illinois, Law School Courtroom. 
MENU  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Baked Pollack  Beef Ravioli  
Apple Cheddar Quiche  Chicken Marsala  
Pasta Bar  Boiled Swordfish  


Showings at 

8:00 and 10:30 p.m. in Cushing Auditorium 
Price of admission is $2.00 
.. 
• 
47 Blyth or Sheridan 48 Pickled buds so Researchers' files 53 Equally 54 Band of witches 55 Use one's power 
57 Piccadilly statue 59 Salt tree 60 Memorable 
couturier 64 Time of 
anticipation 65 Item in a patch 66 Be better than 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

• 
Sports 
• 
page 24 Friday, September 18, 1992 Rich 
Purdue Invitational next up for unbeaten Spikers 

Kurz 
By DAN PIER 
Sports Writer 

Eye In the Sky With the Notre Dame volleyball team on roll, the team bus rolled out of South 1-----------------t'end last night for the first time this 
Jackson typical of 
greedy athletes in 
sports today 
As the pro football season gets into 
full swing, there are, as usual, still a number of holdouts demanding higher pay, willing to sit out the season until they get their money. 
In many cases these athletes are justified. Owners of most professional sports teams (the DeBartolo's and the Steinbrenner's excluded) are pretty concerned about the size of their payroll, and justifiably so. After all, the size of team's payroll isn't always related to how well the team does. Ask any Mets fan about that. 
But athletes can be just as bad as the owners at wrangling over dollars. For every athlete who isn't paid enough compared to his peers, there are others who are already overpaid and still want more. 
In the spirit of the new football season, the biggest culprit is Keith Jackson of the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Jackson held out the season before last, after his second NFL season, demanding that his contract be renegotiated. He came back humbly, claiming he wanted to help save then­Eagles coach Buddy Ryan from losing his job. 
This year, Jackson's contract is up, and he's asking to be paid $2 million a year. He desires to make as much as Jerry Rice, who is arguable the best receiver in NFL history. Jackson is a fine player, and a two-time All-Pro, but that doesn't put him in Rice's class. 
Eagle's owner Norman Braman is notoriously stingy with contracts, but his tough stance with Jackson is justified. So far the Eagles are 2-0 without him, and it doesn't look like the sides are even close to reaching an agreement. 
What does Jackson do now? He files a law-suit, along with nine other players, suing for free agency despite not having enough professional years to qualify for free agency under the existing agreement the players have with the owners. 
The only category Jackson is leading the NFL in is contracts attempted to be broken. 
The people who suffer most from Jackson's sort of behavior are the fans. If owners give into this type of black mail, they will be forced to find ways to increase revenues. Which means-surprise-higher ticket prices for the fans. 
The fans suffer the double indignity of watching their favorite team play games without some key players, who are complaining about making amounts of money the average fan can't even begin to fathom. 
Finally, athletes like Jackson let down their teammates. Their comrades understand only too well how tough negotiations with sports owners can be. 
But if they get the impression that someone is not only asking for more money than they're worth, but also hurting the team's chances for victory with their absence, they won't welcome 
see KURZ I page 23 

eason. The Irish are headed to West 
afayette, Indiana, for the Mortar Board­
urdue Invitational. 

The Irish will try to build on their 7-0 ecord, which was compiled entirely in he friendly surroundings of the Joyce 
cc. 

"It's certainly been nice to be at home," aid head coach Debbie Brown. "It's elped us to get some confidence, but ow I think we're ready to hit the road." 
The Irish will also need to be ready for orne stiff competition. The round-robin ormat will include games against Florida nd Purdue on Friday, followed by a 
eeting with Montana on Saturday. 
"We're definitely looking forward to this ournament," Brown commented. "We xpect three very competitive matches. It 
Tough weekend ahead for Irish soccer 
Depth key to men's success 
BY JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

It has been an explosive week for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
After losing tough games to highly­touted UCLA and Duke to open the season, the 20th-ranked Irish rebounded to defeat Illinois-Chicago 7-0 and Valparaiso 5-1. 
They will try to continue their dominance this weekend when they battle Michigan State and Midwestern Collegiate Conference foe LaSalle. 
Tonight at Michigan State the Irish will face a Spartan squad that will battle until the final gun. 
"Michigan State is a really pesky team," sophomore forward Jean Joseph said. "They will fight hard and compete for the duration of the game, and we know that we have to be ready to play." 
They will have to be ready again on Sunday afternoon when LaSalle visits Alumni Field to open the conference schedule. 
The Explorers are already 0-2 in conference play and the Irish are looking to begin their conference season on a winning note. 
"We want to show everyone that we are the best team in the conference and that we will be for a long time," Joseph said. Senior Kevin Pendergast will lead the Irish into their matchups this weekend. His goal "Our ultimate goal is to get to the NCAA against Valparaiso put him in the top ten on the Irish career scoring list. tournament, and we need to establish S 1. d d f , d 
ourselves early so we ean get a good seed 0 I e ense paces WOmen S squa
in the conference tournament and ultimately get into the big dance." 
The Irish are beginning to hit their stride offensively and the defense has been stifling throughout the season. 
Senior captain Mario Tricoci leads the defense, which has allowed only seven shots on goal in the last two games, while the Irish offense has fired 72. 
Offensively, several players are competing for playing time, and seven different players have scored in the last two games. Joseph was the team's leading scorer in 1991, followed closely by classmate Tim Oates. Freshmen Bill Lanza and Eric Ferguson have been major contributors this year, and senior Kevin Pendergast and junior Mike Palmer 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.:_ have also played key roles. INSIDE SPORTS That depth has been a big key to Notre 

Dame's success this year. 
With several players capable of stepping in at a moment's notice, the Irish haven't been able to let their guard down in practice or in games. 
"It definitely makes practice more competitive," Joseph added. "Everyone knows that you have to produce in practice and in the games to keep your spot and that definitely helps us improve." 
will bring out the best in us." 
Florida is the most dangerous opponent on Notre Dame's schedule. The Lady Gators are ranked 7th in the nation by Volleyball Monthly magazine and lOth in the national coaches' poll while Notre Dame stands 20th and 22nd. Led by outside hitter Gudula Staub, a German import, Florida has compiled a 5-1 record this season. Brown, however, is not intimidated. 
"We don't mind playing Florida first," Brown said. "We've been focusing on them. We have looked at films and studied how to defend specific players, and we've gone through their rotations. We are very well prepared for them." 
The Purdue set will be a rematch of last year's opening date at Notre Dame. The Irish prevailed in that seesaw contest in five games. The Boilermakers are 6-1 so far, including a first place finish in the Miami (Ohio)-Days Inn Classic. 
Montana has gotten off to a slow 3-5 start, but the Lady Griz cannot be taken lightly. Head coach Dick Scott returns two starters from a team that went 26-4, and won the Big Sky Conference title, gaining and appearance in the NCAA tournament in 1991. 
With three matches in two days, coach Brown will need to take advantage of her strong bench. 
"With the tournament's format, depth will be in our favor," Brown explained. "We play a lot of players, while Florida and Purdue stick with six or seven." 
Brown has been rotating at least nine of her players into most matches so far, and teamwork has been a major part of the team's smashing start. Captain Alycia Turner feels that factor will pay off be­yond the impressive early record. 
"We're very pleased with the way we've started the year," Turner said. "We have a lot of high hopes for ourselves, and we're moving in the right direction. If we keep playing well and sticking together as a team, I think we'll do some great things this year." 
B G 0 h
Y eorge 0 rmann 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team embarks on its second straight trying weekend as the Irish face Michigan State today, followed by Dayton on Sunday. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame met Wisconsin-Green Bay and Rutgers on consecutive days, the first back-to-back contests of the young season. The results were favorable as WGB fell easily 2-0 and the 20th ranked Scarlet Knights battled Notre Dame to a 1-1 tie. 
The successful weekend solidified Notre Dame's 18th ranking in the recent ISAA poll, a ranking that they will attempt to hold on to after this weekend. 
Friday's contest against Michigan State could be the tougher of the pair with the Spartans returning key players in their offensive attack. 
Junior Caeri Thomas is atop returnee on the offensive attack, after scoring seven goals and totaling 19 points in 1991. She is joined by sophomore Karen Winslow who finished second on the Spartan scoring list with 17 points last season. 
Defensing against the attack will be an inspired Irish offense which earned it's first shutout against WGB. Rosella Guerrero will be the focus of the Notre Dame attack, as she has been all season. Alison Lester and Ragen Coyne have also shined in the offensive set. 
The Dayton contest will be the second Midwestern Collegiate Conference game for the Irish, the first being a 3-1 win over Butler last week. 
Last season the Flyers played Notre Dame to a 0-0 tie, the only blemish on Notre Dame's MCC slate in 1991. Jenny Smith paces the Dayton attack. The junior forward tallied 22 goals in the 1991 campaign. 
The grueling weekend has Irish coach Chris Petrucelli worried, especially considering the physical play that both the Flyers and Spartans depend upon. 
"It'll be a difficult week for us," commented Petrucelli. "We will be playing two physical teams. We're in a situation where we have to play a lot harder than we did in the earlier part of our season." 
The youthfull Irish will look to improve on their 3-1-1 record. 





