

The Observer/Jon Novak 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 1992VOL. XXIV NO. 80 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Swim team bus crashes 
Two fatalities, several injuries reported 
Observer Staff Report The accident occurred at one of four nearby hospitals: 
12:17 a.m. at the 74 mile Memorial Hospital, St. Joseph 's 
Two members of the Notre marker of the Toll Road about Medical Center in South Bend, Dame women's swim team were three miles west of the South St. Joseph Hospital in killed early this morning when Bend exit, said Vivian Mishawaka, and Michiana a United Limo bus carrying the Nowaczewski of the Toll Road Community Hospital. team overturned on the Indiana Authority. She said Toll Road According to unofficial tabu­Toll Road, said Indiana State authorities attributed the crash lations from three of the hospi­Police. to severe weather conditions. tals, nine students and one 
The team was returning from While the number of people coach were treated and re­a meet at Northwestern injured and the extent of their leased, six students remain in University when the bus appar­injuries is not yet certain, a to­stable condition, and two stu­ently hit a patch of snow and tal of 36 people were on the dents are in serious condition. lost control, according to state bus, according to Kay Kehring, The fourth hospital declined to police Cpl. Dennis Boehler. the night nursing supervisor at release any information con­
"The bus rolled over into a Memorial Hospital in South cerning the incident. median, rolled over onto its top. Bend. The names of the deceased There were several people Rose Pietrzak, women's sports can not be divulged until mem­injured and at this time we information director at Notre bers of the immediate family 
have two confirmed fatalities," Dame, said she estimated that are notified. Boehler said. Indiana State of­there were 30 students on the A Mass will be held at 5 p.m. ficer Larry Hite said he believed bus. tod~ at Sacred Heart. that the two people killed had All of those involved in the Associated Press wire service 
been in a "pinned-in situation." accident were accounted for at contributed information to this The bus was the only vehicle in­the time of this report. report. volved. Those injured were taken to 

Parking violators to be fined 
By DAVID KINNEY also permitted to park in the spaces for visitors were needed Associate News Editor lot. near South Quad and the golf "Only cars owned, rented or course, however, Johnson said. Approximately 100 South leased by students or their im­Several students who received 
Quad students have received mediate family members may fines expressed displeasure $100 fines for improperly reg­be registered" by students, ac­with the parking guidelines. istering vehicles in the D-6 cording to du Lac. Immediate "Why would they emphasize parking lot, according to Phil family means the student's par­visitor parking over student Johnson, assistant director of ents or siblings, according to parking?" one Morrissey Notre Dame Security. Johnson. sophomore asked. 
At the end of the fall Both the students who own "The people who want to park semester, Security "conducted a the cars and those that regis­here are the people who want review of vehicle registration tered the cars will be fined by to live here," a Lyons junior process" and identified about the Office of Residence Life, ac­said. "Why can't my spot be 50 cases of students that had cording to Elizabeth Pawlicki, used for one of my friends?" registered the cars of ineligible director of Residence Life. Another student raised the students, said Johnson. Johnson said that a number concern that some women reg­
The D-6 lot is designated for of students have questioned the istered friends' cars so that they men living in Carroll Hall and parking regulations for the D-6 would also be able to use them.
"Yo-Yo Man" 
women and senior men living lot in the past. One particular South Quad women are on South Quad, Johnson said. concern is the fact that visitors permitted to park in D-6 for
This steel sculpture entitled "Yo-Yo Man," along with four other 
Fifth-year architecture students are allowed to use the lot, while safety reasons; this policy de­
sculptures of Penn State professor Richard Dennis, stands outside 
living off-campus, visitors and a some students are not. A park­feats the purpose, said the stu­
of Le Mans Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. Dennis' work is being 
small number of faculty are ing committee decided that 
displayed through the Moreau Galleries. see PARKING page 4 
Democrats 

New center established to to negotiate 
aid recovering drug addicts 
By SHARON LAVIN have individual and group News Writer counseling, nutritional and
benefits 
recreational instruction, on-site 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Con­
Brian's House, a recently educational tutoring, and in­gressional Democrats offered 
established center for recovery struction and counseling for the Thursday to negotiate an ex­
from drug addiction, hopes to whole family. he said. 
tension of jobless benefits with develop as an integral part of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
President Bush to avoid an 
the South Bend community us­student volunteers will be 
election-year replay of last 
ing members of the Notre needed to cook meals, conduct year's partisan war over the 
Dame/Saint Mary's community recreational activities, and tu­issue. 
as volunteers, according to tor, as well as be positive role The Democrats' accommodat­
Kathy Royer of the Notre Dame models for the youths, said ing words came a day after the Center for Social Concerns. Royer.
White House said that, unlike "I want Brian's House to de­"Since Notre Dame and Saint his position for much of 1991, velop, the project has been in Mary's students are closer to Bush would support extra cov­
the making for several years the age of these kids than 
erage for people who have used 
now. It should be a great con­adults, they can better relate to up their unemployment bene­
tribution to the community and and work with them," Royerfits. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's in­said. "College students have a 
House Democrats have intro­volvement will add to that con­better idea of all the pressuresduced legislation providing 13 tribution," Royer explained. and issues teenagers deal with, 
extra weeks of coverage, be­
Begun on Dec. 2, 1991, the academic and peer to name a yond the 20-or 13-week exten­
program at Brian's House is few." 
sion approved last fall after a designed to serve ten clients at "Not only will the volunteers four-month dispute. The White any given time with the comple­be role models for Brian's House has provided no details 
tion of a primary treatment House, but they will learn what of what it wants. 
program as a prerequisite, ac­happens to young people faced Some 600,000 people will ex­cording to Roland Kelly, an '83 with an addiction. Thus, Notre haust their extended benefits in Notre Dame graduate currently Dame/Saint Mary's involvement 
the latter half of February, 
working at Brian's House. 
Democrats estimate. 
Youths aged 13 to 18 will see ADDICTION page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
licket scalping 
should be 


legalized 
Ah, Minnesota. The land of 10,000 lakes. The mosquito capital of the U.S. in the summer, 
Brendan Regan 
the cold northern tundra in the winter. Graphic Artist 
This resident affectionately describes it as the only place in the country where casual mention of "fighting between the Sharks and the Jets" elicits visions of hulks wearing skates beating each others heads against the ice, rather than a cast of actors leaping about a stage wielding fake weapons. 
This emphasis on sports in the gopher state has been particularly pronounced during this 11-month period in which Minnesota has hosted the Stanley Cup finals, the U.S. Open, the Special Olympics, and the World Series, and hosts the Super Bowl on Sunday and the NCAA Final Four in March. 
(With the Redskins occupying the position the Braves were in a few months ago-a politically incorrect team visiting Native American territory-controversy will undoubtedly abound again outside the Metrodome this Sunday.) 
Unfortunately, many eager fans-residents and visitors alike-are not able to attend these events as a result of a piece of ad hoc legislation from October 1987 Gust in time for that World Series) which has been sustained in Minnesota and is catching on in states across the nation: the outlawing of "ticket scalping." 
When I witnessed a man getting handcuffed and thrown in a squad car for this grievous "offense" across the street from the Metrodome before Game 1 of the 1987 World Series, I couldn't help but think this was a misuse of police effort in light of the brutal crimes which were certainly taking place elsewhere at the same time. 
Furthermore, I've come to realize, this petty legislation is un-American. 
The exchanging of tickets for a sum of cash (above, below, or equal to face value) is a microcosm of the free-enterprise market that is our economy. 
Very simply, it is distributing scarce goods among consumers in a way which maximizes satisfaction for those involved. 
To illustrate: if John O'Domer would rather have $100 than a NO-Tennessee football ticket and Rich Alumnus values the ticket enough to pay what John is asking, the transaction yields more utility to both than either had originally. 
(I do realize that this logic tends to open a new can of worms-the case for legalization of the consumer "service" of prostitution-which space constraints don't allow me to address.) 
Let's do away with this ridiculous legislation so that various sporting and other events are 
attended by those who most want to be there. 
The views contained in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Friday, January 24,1992 

The Observer 

Seattle 46 42 
PrfJSSure 


South Bend 15 0 Tokwo 52 45
H L 
Washington, D.C. 56 50 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

China readying to open doors 
•HONG KONG -Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader, cruised an amusement park in a golf cart and rubbernecked from a revolving restaurant atop a skyscraper in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen this week. But what the 87 -year-old leader was really doing, analysts say, is telling the world that China's Communist Party is ready to open further to the West and radicalize its already successful program of economic reform. By visiting Shenzhen, Deng highlighted his government's commitment to creating a market economy. 
NATION 

Independent producers seek buyers 
• PARK CITY, Utah -Suppose you made a movie and nobody came. For a lot of independent filmmakers, that scary supposition is more rule than exception. Several features, avant-garde pieces and a batch of documentaries showing at the Sundance Film Festival here have no distributors and thus no way of coming to the nation's theaters. Although representatives of the prominent independent studios are buying a title here or there, many filmmakers will leave the festival the same way they arrived: stuck with their movies and their debts. 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Ken Kinley, Christian Appalachian Project (CAP) representative, will be on campus today to talk about CAP with seniors and interested undergraduates. He will be in the library concourse from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., and at the esc from 1 to 5 p.m. 

• 
Misa en Espanol, a Spanish Mass, will take place on Sunday, Jan. 26, at 10 a.m. in the Breen-Phillips Chapel. 

• 
Neighborhood study help program will hold a brief informational meeting at 1 p.m. on Sunday, Jan. 26 at Cushing Auditorium for all ND and SMC students interested in tutoring this semester. Questions: Martha 283-2510, Cheri 277-6168. 


. ::. 
FORECAST: Today will be partly cloudy and snowy with highs only reaching near 20. Snow will end later in the evening with temperatures dropping to 0. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  52  43  
Atlanta  62  45  
Berlin  41  34  
Boston  54  36  
Calgary  30  12  
Chicago  38  22  
Dalas-Ft.Wor1h  51  33  
Denver  39  15  
Honolulu  82  69  
Houston  59  34  
ndianapolis  44  29  
London  45  39  
Los Angeles  67  46  
Miarri Beach  78  71  
N-Orleans  73  44  
N-York  59  46  
Paris  41  32  
Philade~hia  56  47  
Rome  57  39  
San Diego  62  44  
San Francisco  56  45  

Barbara Bush praises husband 
•KEENE, N.H. -First lady 
*'' Barbara Bush touted her husband's foreign policy performance and the 
U.S. victory in the Persian Gulf War on Thursday as she stumped for the president in the first-primary state. Mrs. Bush reminded voters of fears that never materialized because of the U.S. victory in the Persian Gulf War. "A year ago, we were talking about 50,000 body bags, high inflation, long gasoline lines," she said at a rally here. "We've forgotten all about that. I, as a grandmother and mother, am very comforted." 
INDIANA 
Pro-life protestors prevail 
•FORT 
WAYNE, ln. -Abortion foes in Fort Wayne have persuaded a federal judge to modify an injunction that prohibited protests in front of the city's only abortion clinic. U.S. District Judge William Lee's decision Tuesday means Northeast Indiana Rescue may stage its annual march on Saturday past the Women's Health Organization Clinic. Meanwhile, about 450 anti­abortion activists marched in South Bend Wednesday to protest the 19th anniversary of the Supreme Court's decision making abortion legal. 

• 
A Seminar on India will be held on Sunday, Jan. 26, in the Hesburgh Library at 1 p.m. Talks on the economics, politics, religion and culture of India will be offered. Traditional Indian refreshments will be served. All are welcome. 

• 
All students interested in working for the federal government are invited to attend a workshop to be held from 8:10 to 9:00 a.m. on Monday, Jan. 27 in the North­wedge room of the St. Mary's Dining Hall. The workshop will focus on identifying and applying for full and part­time summer positions. Call Jeff Roberts, Coordinator of Placement Services, for details at 284-4565. 


Friday's Staff: Production Illustrations Peggy Crooks Dave Devine Bryan Nowicki Scoreboard Accent Mike Scrudato Shonda Wilson Lab Tech. Gerrie Hamilton Macy Hueckel Cristina Oritz News Jeannie Shin Steve Zavestoski Sports Meredith McCullough Rolando de Aguiar 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/January 23 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
..fl..
288,402,460 228.89 v 1.30 S&P COMPOSITE 414.96 ~ 3.17 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,226.74 • 29.07 
PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD1} $2.30 to $357JJO/oz. 
18.1¢ to $4.318/oz. 

~, # ~ -" ' • • • • •' • • ... ," 1 'I ,_. 1,. 4 ·• • • ,} .J 1 I 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On January 24: 
• 
In 1848: James Marshall found gold in Sutter's Mill in California. 

• 
In 1888: Ernst Heinkel, the builder of the first rocket-powered aircraft, was born.. 

• 
In 1899: The rubber heel was patented by Humphrey O'Sullivan. 

• 
In 1935: The first beer in cans was sold. 

• 
In 1963: A cold wave killed 150 people as it swept across the United States. 

• 
In 1986: Voyager II flew past Uranus. 


"e:. ._ '~ ....•••·: ( f L'•'t.".....-.:.~.J 1 "! "'·'•'• ...'.f;' '" \ '•'•"':• •" 

Friday, January 24,1992 
Yeltsin calls for profit; privatization allowed 
MOSCOW (AP) -Russian President Boris Yeltsin on Thursday blasted the unprof­itable farms of the former So­viet Union and warned that 2,600 state-owned enterprises could be quickly closed if they fail to show a profit. 
Yeltsin also signed a decree permitting individuals to buy and sell goods without special permission and eliminating customs duties on imported goods, Russian television re­ported. 
Signs that the Russian econ­omy was worsening continued, with a senior official saying bread consumption had risen sharply in the last 10 days and that Russia planned to import nearly 10 million tons of grain in the first quarter of this year. 
Wealthy nations at a confer­ence in Washington on Thurs­day agreed to massive ship­ments of food and medicine to the former Soviet republics. The United States said it would airlift supplies in 54 sorties be­ginning Feb. 10. 
Yeltsin's spokesman, Pavel Voshchanov, said the an­nouncement contained "nothing surprising." He said Bush had discussed forming a special Air Force squadron to fly aid to Moscow about a month ago in a conversation with Yeltsin. 
"We have similar agreements with Italy and Germany, not just 
---·­
about using air force cargo planes, but also their military to guard the cargo. So it's not an issue that was decided today," Voshchanov said. 
Yeltsin, who has said he will sign a decree March 1 to priva­tize most state-owned farm­land, denied that he was trying to get rid of the collective farms that under decades of Communist rule fed the Soviet people. 
He said if these farms "show profits, let them work." 
"But we have 2,600 loss­making enterprises, and their future has to be decided within the first quarter," Yeltsin told a meeting of the Russian gov­ernment. "And give their land to farmers, or those who want to work on that land." 
"There will be no more subsi­dies -don't you hope for it," he warned. "This loophole must be closed." 
Yeltsin said privatization of farmland was proceeding slow­ing, with only 52,000 individual farmers in Russia. In some places, he said, "they are sim­ply not accepted." 
Only one-third of Russia's land is being used, he said. 
Assessing his reforms that freed most prices Jan. 2, Yeltsin said it was proceeding as planned, although there had been "some distortions" in places. 

-·-~-----·------~-----""' 

'l~eed A Spring· Break? 
c.-~ Jt ~J:reat Ycur-.,elf 7o A Barefoot l~ahamas Spring Break ( The Ultimate Sailing Experience -.;;. 
[Cilll.aoo-359~9808 T~] \t'.., 

The Observer 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Twinkle toes 
Matt Raulston, left, and Tyler Moore display their musical agility yesterday afternoon. The "floor" piano is part of the SUB-spon­sored events in LaFortune. 
Not Getting l~nough l\Iail'? 
Make friends with college students your age just like you from schools around the U.S. with your own penpal. Get more mail, too. 
just send your ~. address, class year and major along with $1 for postaGe and handling to: 
page 3 


Computers temporarily malfunction 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
DART was not available for use by students on Tuesday and part of Wednesday due to a malfunction at Administrative Computing, according to com­puting director Leo Judy. 
The disc drive on the main Hewlett-Packard computer failed, Judy said, making it nec­essary to shut down the whole administrative system. While the system was down, the disc was replaced and all of the computer data was reloaded. All of the administrative com­puters on campus were down during this process, including DART. 
All campus computers came back up yesterday morning. Ac­cording to Registrar Harold Pace, no student records have been lost. He reminded students that the DART period would be extended until midnight tonight to offset any inconveniences caused by the malfunction. 

Correction 
Due to misinformation from the South Bend Police, the campus address for Troy Ridgley was listed incorrectly in yesterday's Observer. His actual campus address is in Alumni Hall. The Observer regrets the error. 
JaAmericanHeartV Association 
WE'RE FIGHTII\IG Frn 'O.JRLIFE 


The Department ofMusic Presents GUESTARTIST 

DAVIDBOE 
of the Oberlin Conservatory 

Organ Recital Sunday, January 26, 1992, 8:00p.m. Sacred Heart Church 
The concert is free and open to the public 
Free -ONE MONTH RENT Til February 1st 
No Security Deposit 

EARN SSSS FOR 
~JAilERS. ~IAITRESSES AND fOOD SERVICE HELP (while availability last) Free Garage or Carport 
NEEDED FOR ,Jpl-J CATERING EVENTS FEBRUARY tOTH THRLI FEBRUARY t6TH 
Free Remington Court $5.10 PER HOUR 
MOVING VAN! 

VISIT THE LO~.IER LEVEL OF SOUTH DINING HALL
~ MINI & VERTICAL Blinds Included 
fOR ~10RE INfORMATION 
Free Washer $ Dryers 
SPRING BREAK
~ Microwaves 
~Alarm Systems 

255-7777
ON MAIN ST. 

BETWEEN McKINLEY 
2 Bedroom also available 
& EDISON 


page 4 The Observer Friday, January 24,1992 
Vaccinating monkeys against AIDS success 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Scien­tists said Thursday that for the first time they have successfully vaccinated monkeys against an AIDS-related virus by using bits of the virus' outer coat -a method similar to one that has produced encouraging prelimi­nary results in humans. 
A team headed by Dr. Shiu­Lok Hu of Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Insti­tute in Seattle vaccinated four macaque monkeys against the simian immunodeficiency virus, which is related to HIV, the human AIDS virus. 
The scientists report on their study in the forthcoming issue of Science, the weekly journal of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
Dr. Dani Bolognesi of the Center for AIDS Research at Duke University, which was in­volved in the study, said it was "clearly supporting evidence" that such a method could achieve success against the HIV virus in humans. 
Parking 
continued from page 1 
dent, because they now must walk to the D-2 lot in order to use the car. 
Johnson said that if any stu­dent could make this claim, the D-6 lot would not be able to meet the needs of South Quad students. 
"We have an interest in trying to make parking guidelines that meet student needs and the University's needs as well," said Johnson. 
The D-6 parking lot, which has room for 515 vehicles, can­not accommodate the needs of all the students on the South Quad owning cars while serving the needs of visitors who must use the lot, he said. 
Johnson said he understands it is "not easy in times of in­clement weather ... to walk to D-2" from South Quad, but that Security cannot always accom­modate everyone. 
Security must also anticipate the need for more space during the second part of spring semester, according to Johnson. More students will be returning from spring break and Easter with cars, and more visitors will be on campus when the weather improves, he said. 
Pawlicki said that students 
Addiction 
continued from page 1 
will be a good opportunity for both the clients and student volunteers, for their interests will mesh," she added. 
Kelly said he is eager to get the house under way. 
"I'm interested in getting people from the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's recovering community," said Kelly. ··we need recovering addicts to sponsor the kids and take them to their AA meetings and other rehabilitation meetings. That way, both the college student and client recoverers will bene­fit. It's easier when the recover­ing youth has someone to relate to." 
Anyone 21 years or older in­terested in volunteering should contact director Mahlon Wise at Brian's House, 234-0824, or Kathy Royer at 239-7862, for an application. Recovering ad­dicts are encouraged to apply. 
Brian's House is located at 130 S. Taylor St. in South Bend. 
Monkeys had been immunized against SIV before, but it was done with vaccines made from inactivated whole viruses. The authors said use of whole inactivated HIV vaccines in humans presents problems because of safety questions. 
Consequently, most effqrts to develop an HIV vaccine have concentrated on strategies similar to the one used on the monkeys. 
In tests now being conducted on human volunteers, Bolognesi said, "there are encouraging signs that this protocol is in­ducing good responses in peo­ple." 
He said these tests are designed to determine whether the vaccines are safe and whether they will stimulate immune responses. 
The next step in testing, he said, would be to try the vac­cines on people who are in high-risk groups for developing the HIV infection to see whether it would protect them. 
can consult with the Office of Residence Life until Feb. 7 if they believe the charges are in­correct or if there are extenuat­ing circumstances. The office will decide on a case-by-case basis whether to allow some students to offer service hours rather than pay the fine, she added. 
The students can transfer the registration of their car to the D-2 parking lot for $5. Johnson said that there is enough room to accommodate the students in D-2. 



REGGAE Concert & Dance Party 
,..-------------------------------------------------------------­

JPW SEATING WILL TAKE PLACE MON., JAN. 27, TUES., JAN. 28, & WED., JAN. 29 IN RM. 112 OF THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION. THREE STUDENTS AND THEIR PARENTS WILL BE SEATED AT EACH TABLE. ONE STUDENT MAY BRING IN THE IDs OF THREE STUDENTS TOTAL. 
QUESTIONS? CALL 239-6028 OR 283-2537. 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Just browsing 
Notre Dame junior Vicky Talbert peruses Guatemalan goods on sale in LaFortune through today. A portion of the proceeds go to Amnesty International. 
Bristol-Myers gives needy medication 
NEW YORK (AP) -Bristol­Myers Squibb Co. said Thurs­day it will give away cardiovas­cular drugs to the needy, the latest goodwill gesture by drug makers toward Americans who cannot afford proper health care. 
The announcement comes amid increasing scrutiny of the pharmaceutical industry, which critics say profits enormously from expensive drugs that only the insured and the wealthy can afford. Some drug prices have increased by 20 percent and more annually in recent years, many times the rate of inflation. 
To pre-empt efforts by law­makers to regulate price in­creases, many drug manufac­turers have have been making their products more accessible. 
Pfizer Inc .. Ciba-Geigy, G.D. Searle & Co. and Sandoz Phar­maceuticals Corp. are just some of the pharmaceutical compa­nies that give drugs to needy patients, often on a case-by­case basis. 
Bristol-Myers Squibb has been giving away its anti­cancer d-rugs to the so-called "medically indigent" since 1973 and, more recently, its AIDS medication, Videx. 
Over the past five years, 14,000 cancer patients have re­ceived Bristol-Myers Squibb drugs. 

JfikEY DREAD 
And the DREAD AT THE CONTROLS CREW With the CHICAGO ALL STARS 
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 29th 8 P.M. TWIST & SHOUTS NITE CLUB 
PARKMOR PLAZA • ELKHART • 264-6036 STREET WISE PROMOTIONS 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE, TOMORROW'S 
JEN'S B-DAY 
AND CBECKO TBAT DO!! 


Friday, January 24,1992 The Observer page 5 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Shooting two 
Seniors Stephanie Bury and Jon Bargertry their hands at the mini-hoops set up in the main lobby of LaFortune as part of SUB's promotion of An Tostal. 
Resolution introduced to open secret Jt:=K files 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A former chairman of a House assassinations panel has intro­duced a resolution to immedi­ately open secret committee files on the slaying of President Kennedy. 
The measure introduced Wednesday by Rep. Henry Gon­zalez, D-Texas, calls for release of the sealed documents within 30 days after the·· measure's adoption. 
Gonzalez, a friend of Kennedy's who was in the pres­idential motorcade in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, is the first con­gressman to introduce a mea­sure this session to open files scheduled to remain sealed until 2029. 
Another former chairman of the assassinations panel, Rep. Louis Stokes, D-Ohio, also favors release of the records and is considering introducing his own legislation to free them, spokeswoman Joyce Larkin said Thursday. 
"He '11 probably introduce something separately, although it's still in the works," she said. 
Many in recent weeks have called for the release of all pertinent files -including those from the Warren Com­mission. The renewed interest has been sparked by the recent release of Oliver Stone's con­spiracy film, "JFK." 
A written message at the end 
of the movie notes that the 
House assassinations committee 
sealed until 2029 more than 
848 boxes of records on the 
Kennedy assassination. 
''Until a few weeks ago, I had 
no idea that any documents had 
been sealed," Gonzalez said 
Wednesday in a one-minute 
speech on the House floor. "The 
sealing of documents by the 
House is something that 
believe the House of Represen­
tatives should find abhorrent." 
Gonzalez noted that he intro­duced the legislation creating the House Select Committee on Assassinations in 1976. He also explained his subsequent resig­nation as chairman the follow­ing year after the House lead­ership refused to back him in a power struggle with the com­mittee's counsel. 
The committee, which dis­banded in 1979. produced a 27­volume report that concluded that Kennedy was "probably" assassinated as the result of a conspiracy involving a second gunman. That conclusion was at odds with the Warren Com­mission, which decided in 1964 that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone. 
On (,ldvice of its counsel, the committee sealed the records for 50 years. 



12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 

12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 

IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent from the University of Notre Dame 

NCUA 
Mal~ ('..Ott U~&~M M•lalltJGt•l)fl aiii~IHII"4Jncy 
uty
Beast: 

lily &:•, 7:11, e:• ~ 
..., 1:46, 1:46, e:• 

IIIIa. 1:..1:..&:11, 7:..1:11 
Ill/..1!:46, 1:41,1:... 1:11 


lilY1:..7:11, 1:41 1111..1:-.a:-.&:..7:..1:4& 
ND/SMC FAVORITE NIGHT SPOT 
And...of course...the best 
live music in town ONE NIGHT ONLY 

SATURDAY, JAN. 25 
ND FAVORITE BAND

10:00pm "FREDDY JONES" 

• "' • • • • • • • -• • · ~ • • • Jo • --.. • -~ • • -. • • C· • " , c. 'lo 

The Observer 
page 6 Friday, January 24, 1992 
U.N. peacekeeping force to be sent to Yugoslavia 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) ­Arrangements for sending thousands of peacekeepers to Yugoslavia are nearly complete, a Serbian leader said Thursday after meeting with the U.N. secretary-general. 
Gen. Borisav Jovic, a member of the Serb-dominated federal presidency, told reporters that some differences remain, but most sides support the dispatch of a 10,000-member U.N. force to bolster a cease-fire in Croa­tia. 
In Yugoslavia, meanwhile, the human rights group Helsinki Watch accused Serbia of "serious human rights abuses" during the seven-month-old Serb-Croat conflict and said it also planned to criticize Croatia for similar violations. 
Also, Croatia charged Serb­led forces in eastern Croatia with shelling attacks that vio­lated the 3-week-old cease-fire. No casualties were reported. The United Nations has said it won't deploy peacekeepers until it is sure the cease-fire will hold. 
Jovic, the Serbian leader, said he expected peacekeepers would be sent to Yugoslavia in the "immediate future." A 50­member liaison delegation al­ready is in the country. 
"We're in the final stage of preparations for their coming to Yugoslavia," he said. 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali also met with Croatian Premier Franjo Gre­guric. No details of those talks were released. 
Jovic declined to outline the remaining obstacles to their deployment. The continued op­position of leaders of Serb-held 
SPRING BREAK '92 
Lowest prices, 
best accommodations 
guaranteed to: 
Daytona, 
Cancun, 
Bahamas 
DAYTONA 
$229 room & bus $149 room only 
CANCUN 
$489 room & air S199 room only BAHAMAS 
$449 room & air S199 room only *All rooms in Daytona are at Whitehall and Sunrise Hotels 
regions in southern Croatia is believed to be one such issue. The Serbs in these areas have said they will resist U.N. de­ployment because it could force them to live under a Croatian government. 
The New York-based human rights group Helsinki Watch, meanwhile, detailed its accusa­tions regarding Serbia in a let­ter to Serbian President Slobo­dan Milosevic and the acting federal defense minister, Gen. Blagoje Adzic. Its findings were released in Belgrade. 
It accused the Serbian gov­ernment and the Serb-led fed­eral army of "the summary ex­ecution of civilians; the indis­criminate and disproportionate use of force against civilian targets; the torture and mistreatment of detainees; dis­appearances and the taking of hostages ... (and) the forced displacement and resettlement of civilians." 
There was no immediate re­action from Serbia to the letter, which Helsinki Watch said was based on Croatian autopsy re­ports and witnesses. 
Both sides have accused each other of abuses. Some reports of summary executions and other atrocities have been inde­pendently confirmed. 
In one incident in Hun and Vocin, in the western Slavonia region, Serb irregulars killed 43 Croats, Helsinki Watch re­ported. 
One victim "appeared to have been chained to a table and then set afire while still alive," it said. 

OBCJAPAN 

Carrying his own weight 
Sophomore Luis Torres works out yesterday in Stanford Hall's recently improved basement. 
fRifNDS DON'T lH fRifNDS DRIVf DRUNK. 
BC English Conversation School is IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, You WON'T GET THE LETTERS.
ffering full-time teaching positions 
beginning in July 1992. 
Excellent working conditions, 
benefits, and salary. 

TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION Be COUNSELING

Open to all majors. 
LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273·1866

Career and Placement Services 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
SUPER BOWL SPECIALS 
PAPA JOHN•s PREDICTION: 
23 and Ironwood 
BII~IS (next to Subway) 
REDSKINS 
271-1177 
-

T--------------------------~-----------------------~------------------------~. 1 Large Cheese for 4 lg 1-topping 
1 lg Cheese and 2 $5.00 +tax $19.95 +tax Cokes $6.00 + tax Additional toppings Additional Additional toppings $.95 toppings $ .95 $.95 
tudent Holidays 236-5825 24 hrs. 

·~---------------------------~-----------------------~------------------------~ 
Friday, January 24,1992 The Observer page 7 
Poor economy may not be the fault of U.S. labor 

WASHINGTON (AP) People who study the U.S. work force say Japan's Yoshio Sakurachi got it just about all wrong when he said "inferior .. . lazy" American workers are the cause of this country's competitive troubles. 
The U.S. economy has its troubles, these observers say, but the American worker is not the cause. 
"American workers work very hard and try to work even harder; the thing that impresses me is how hard they'll fight just to get a lousy job," said former U.S. Labor Secretary Ray Marshall. 
Still, there were enough home truths in what Sakurachi, speaker of Japan's lower house, said over the weekend to cause squirming in this country. 
Economists said he was on target in suggesting America isn't training workers for the skills needed to make the workplace operate at its most productive level. 
Sakurachi, who said later he had been misunderstood, was quoted as telling his con­stituents that the source of America's competitive problem "is the inferior quality of U.S. labor," 30 percent of whom, he said, cannot read. "They want high pay without working," he said. 
The charge is simply off base, said Stephen Cooney, international investment director for the National Association of Manufacturers. And the proof, he said, is that in the last five years "we've doubled our exports of manufactured goods; in virtually every industry we've gained market share against all other industrial countries." 
Jeff Faux, president of the Economic Policy Institute, which studies economic growth, said Sakurachi was "all wet" in his comments on the American worker. 
"People are working harder, and harder for less," Faux said. Since 1970, he said, the average American in manufacturing worked 38 hours more per year while the Japanese worker worked 114 fewer hours per year and the German workers 286 fewer hours. 
But he said Sakurachi was on the mark in suggesting that America's problems lie here, not overseas, and in saying that the United States is becoming Japan's "subcontractor." 
"It's true: We're supplying Japan with inputs, with raw materials and they're designing and manufacturing the final goods. 

Japanese backlash not beneficial 



I 1\EK........ 
'

I][ I I Irl 

STARDATE: 1-25-92 

8 pm -5 am in Theodore's $3 All-Night Admission @ Door * Free Popcorn I .25 Drinks . 
• All Proceeds Benefit Lions' Club Work With Visually lmpa1red 
"WATCH SO THAT OTHERS MAY SEE" 
WASHINGTON (AP} -Some 
politicians are acting on the 
popular cry of 'Buy American.' 
But experts say a backlash 
against Japan, no matter how 
emotionally appealing, will 
have long-term disadvantages. 
The war of words escalated 
this week when a Japanese leg­
islator was quoted as saying 
American workers are lazy and 
illiterate. Yoshio Sakurachi, 
speaker of the lower house of 
the Japanese parliament, later 
apologized. 
Then, the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission scrapped a $122 million con­tract with an American sub­sidiary of Japan's Sumitomo Corp. to build rail cars for its transit system. The commission said it wanted to pursue the possibility of starting its own factory to produce U.S.-made rail cars. 
"This will keep jobs from go­ing abroad," said Los Angeles City Councilman Joel Wachs, a critic of the contract. "You will see this all over the country in how government contracts are awarded now. This will rever­berate around the country." 
A day before Wednesday's vote, the town board of the Rochester suburb of Greece, N.Y., rejected a $40,000 Ko­matsu excavating machine. It costs $15,000 less than the American-made John Deere model, but town officials wanted to make a symbolic point about Sakurachi's rhetoric. 
"It really irritated me to the point that I moved to reject the purchase of this equipment," said board member Vincent Campbell. 
And Sen. Don Riegle, a Demo­crat from Michigan where U.S. automobile manufacturers are headquartered, said: "Mr. Sakurachi's attitude in slander­ing American workers was the same view the Japanese held the day its warplanes struck Pearl Harbor. Their arrogance 


Source: Commerce Department 
was gone by 1945, when they learned the full measure of America's capabilities." 
As popular as that might sound on the gut level, others say its time to let the heated rhetoric cool down and dwell on how important Japan and the United States are to each other as trading partners. 
..As much as Japan has out­spoken politicians who relish the idea of attacking America, the folks who run Japan under­stand their national interest lies in maintaining a close and relatively friendly economic re­lationship with us. We on our side recognize the same thing," said Edward Lincoln of the Brookings Institution, a Wash­ington, D.C.-based think tank. 
"Both governments are going to work very actively to paper things over and get back on the correct diplomatic track," Lin­coln said Thursday. He called the Los Angeles action "absolutely outrageous, even more stupid than protectionism 


APfWm. J. Castello 
on a national scale." 
In Tokyo, the Foreign Ministry's press office declined to comment on the vote, saying it wanted to get complete details. Japanese newspapers carried the story but not on page one. Stori.es said it was an example of the buy American sentiment among the U.S. public. 
In an editorial on Thursday, The Wall Street Journal said: "It's about time the trade war­riors on both sides of the Pacific shut up long enough for the silent. hard-working majorities of both the U.S. and Japan to remind them -just by getting on with business -that Pearl Harbor II this is not." 
Next to Canada, Japan is the largest market for American exports. Each year, Japan buys $40 billion of U.S. manufac­tured goods, computer prod­ucts, food, Gilette razors, Mc­Donald's hamburgers, Coca­Cola and other goods, according to the Japan Economic Institute of America. 
I I I I I I 
j 


This is a paid Observer advertisement 
Reflections on the Colloquy lor the Year 2000 
(Reflections on "The Colloquy for the Year 2000" will appear periodically in The Observer as a means of highlighting substantive issues, providing some exposure for the Colloquy process and inviting response from other members of the University community. These essays are not to be taken as consensus statements of the colloquy itself but as thinking-in-progress by participants ) 
By Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
In my annual address to the faculty in October of 1991, I announced the establishment of the Colloquy for the Year 2000. The Colloquy is to be a structured self-review designed to determine priorities and needs for the next stage of the University's development. One hundred members of the local community (faculty, students, staff and administrators} have agreed to serve on the five major committees. 
The Committee for the Whole has met twice in order to plan the logistics of the Colloquy and to begin the process of identifying the central issues to be pursued by the other four committees. These Committees on Academic Life; on Finances, University Relations and Athletics; on Student Life; and on Mission, Opportunities and Challenges have also met and have chartered a schedule of meetings for the spring semester. 
An indispensable component of the work of the Colloquy is to initiate the broadest possible process of consultation with other members of the University community. You will be hearing about some of these sessions in the coming weeks. Some of the consultation will be informal gatherings of various units of the University (departments, councils, dormitories, work units}. Some of it will be in survey or other written format. As part of this process, I encourage each of you individually to consider writing me a letter expressing your concerns, hopes and dreams for Notre Dame. I promise you that these letters will be taken seriously and, when appropriate, will be shared with other members of the Colloquy. 
Because of the recessionary economy, this is a very difficult time financially for American higher education. Today, we see many of our peer institutions announcing budget crises, faculty and staff cutbacks, and down­sizing or retrenchment We also experience reduced federal outlays for research and financial aid. In the face of these difficulties Notre Dame is doing better than most. However, we are not immune from the set of related economic realities that all institutions of higher education face. This should be even more of an incentive for us to use the time well to plan seriously and comprehensively for our future development. 
It is understandable that some members of our community have expressed a degree of skepticism about the usefulness of efforts like the Colloquy. Everyone here carries an already busy schedule of activities, and committee work has a degree of tedium and frustration attached to it. Nevertheless, I recommend to any of you with the time and energy a close reading of the two most recent efforts by the University of Notre Dame to establish future priorities. While neither of these reports foresaw all of the future challenges, they were amazingly prescient in recognizing the important issues and trends and recommending corresponding goals and priorities. 

The first of these reports came from the Committee on University Priorities (COUP} and was made available in December of 1973. The second was called Priorities and Commitments for Excellence (PACE) and was submitted to the University community in May of 1983. Coming about a decade apart these two reports reveal the emerging problems, opportunities and challenges of the contemporary University. 
I.The COUP Report ­
In COUP freedom for Catholic scholars, the role of theology and preference for Holy Cross priests and religious were noted under Catholic character. In terms of finances, the tone was somewhat pessimistic compared to that of PACE, a reminder of the cyclical nature of the economy. Endowment was stressed as a way of achieving academic strength, and there were fears that tuition Increases would affect the makeup of the student body. Maintenance was a concern, but the report did not foresee the physical growth that was to take place on campus. An undergraduate enrollment of 6,600 was recommended (it is now 7,700). Other issues included greater selectivity at the post­baccalaureate level; a concern about lagging undergraduate enrollment in Science and Engineering; the necessity of increased endowment for student aid; the continuing importance of residentiality and the Intellectual role of the rector; the growing place of interdiscipline study; the need for housing for advanced students (now partially met, twenty years later). 
Also, there was considerable attention given to initiatives to promote excellence in teaching, the improvement of graduate programs and their evaluation by outside consultants, the need for more resources to be spent on the Library as well as on computing infrastructure and audiovisual tools. 
1\vo areas mentioned in COUP in particular are worthy of renewed attention two decades later-the improvement of graduate studies without sacrificing the quality of undergraduate instruction and the articulation of the Institution's Catholic Identity. 
II. The PACE Report ­
The PACE report of 1983 is much more upbeat and self­confident in its overall approach. There is a strong sense that the University is much more competitive than it had been in the past in seeking significant increases in its resource base both for physical construction and for growth in the endowment. There are strong affirmations of the Catholic character of Notre Dame and its indispensable elements as well as of the great potential for graduate studies and research. Residentiality is seen as an integral part of the Notre Dame experience. 
One of the most Important contributions of PACE was the formulation of a mission statement for the University. It stresses that the University is a place of teaching, of research and of community. It then goes on to see each of these components relative to the Catholic vision of reality. In other words, it tries to draw a close connection between the adjective and the noun, between our general identity as an institution of higher education and our specific mission as a Catholic University. While this is our proudest legacy, It is also a difficult reality to instantiate and renew. 
A quick review of the major recommendations of the PACE report suggest that the vast majority have been achieved, either in whole or in part. Great attention has been given to teaching and research, particularly at the graduate level. There has been a great expansion of academic facilities in every college of the University and in two of the institutes. All of us look forward to the new DeBartolo classroom building, which has been long overdue. Most of the disappointments have been a function of the absence of adequate funding. This is true in terms of graduate fellowships, graduate research monies, and endowment for Notre Dame Press. 
Under the Faculty a number of important things have been achieved. Faculty salaries have been sustained in the top quintile at all faculty ranks. The number of endowed professorships has grown quickly. Standards for promotion have been increased across the board. There has only been partial success in substantially increasing the percentage of women, minority and Holy Cross community faculty. 
The undergraduate student body has remained strong. The size of the undergraduate student body has grown to 7,700 and the percentage of women keeps going up and this will continue in the future. Additional funding for undergraduate financial aid has been found but this has been partially offset by the regular increases in tuition rates. New facilities for graduate housing have recently been opened. Social space has been improvPd significantly with the addition to LaFortune Student Center and to recreational and athletic facilities on the campus. In addition, further attention has been given to recruitment and support for hall rectors and for those Involved In Campus Ministry. The recent Task Force Report on Evangelization has been particularly effective in this regard. · 
Two areas that were covered in the PACE Report as matters of concern have been addressed over the last decade. One is the revision of the alcohol policy which remains a point of some contention on college campuses around the country. The second has to do with intercollegiate athletics and its proper role and functioning in a University setting. The extensive report on intercollegiate athletics at Notre Dame submitted to the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics and made available in Notre Dame Report constitutes an excellent baseline for future discussion. 
It is probably in the area of academic computing that we have seen the quickest progress over the last decade. This Involved a major commitment of University funds and the addition of further personnel. 
Ill. Conclusion ­
I think it is safe to say that the PACE Report, building on the COUP Report, has enabled the University to become a better institution in almost every way. The results were not always immediate but over the last ten years a major portion of the recommendations has been achieved. It is Important to keep in mind that many other things have been taken on that were not envisaged in either the COUP or PACE Reports. The Snite Museum of Art has become a rich resource for the University and the surrounding community. Additional office space has been provided for our growing faculty, and this has sometimes required separate buildings as in Decio Hall. The University has come up with increasing funds for the capitalization of new faculty, particularly in Science and Engineering. This is a very expensive side of modern academic life. Staff have been added to support the academic enterprise at the department, college and institute or center level. There has been an increasing specialization in the services provided to our undergraduate and graduate students. The Graduate School has reorganized itself to respond to the complex nature of graduate recruiting and to increasing government regulations. 
In conclusion, I firmly believe that COUP and PACE were indispensable benchmarks in the process of planning for Notre Dame's short and long-range future. If the Colloquy can be as successful, present and future generations of Notre Dame students and faculty will benefit from its hard work. 
In the coming weeks there will be periodic reports from the Colloquy. Among other things I personally will offer reflections about different aspects of American higher education and Notre Dame's place within it. The minutes of the various committees of the Colloquy will be published in Notre Dame Report. Once again. let me urge you to send me your thoughts and suggestions that they might be included in our process of reflection. 
-January 10. 1992 

Friday, January 24, 1992 The Observer page9 
Less acid rain may increase global warming 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Cutting the pollution that causes acid rain may be a major envi­ronmental victory, but will make the job of dealing with global warming more difficult, a group of scientists said Thursday. 
The findings, published in Friday's issue of Science 
magazine, concluded that sulfur dioxide and other sulfate pollutants, which cause acid rain, have shielded much of the earth from the increased warming of the so-called "greenhouse effect." 
"In part this may mean that we already have a far worse problem with global warming 

than we realized because the effects of the greenhouse gases have been masked," said James Coakley, a professor of atmo­spheric science at Oregon State University and an author of the study. 
But the authors do not sug­gest that efforts be abandoned to reduce acid-rain causing pollutants. 
"Acid rain clearly has bad ef­fects,'' Robert Charlson, the lead author of the report, said in a telephone interview. "What we have to do is cut back on the totality of the (greenhouse) emissions." 
Charlson, a professor of at­mospheric science at the Uni-
LIMITED-TIME EVENT 
AT CENTURY CENTER 
Save 60% off the original catalog prices ... on thousands of items! 
Find over $1 million in winter fashions ... including famous names 
Stock up on casual to career styles for women and men 
Here are just a few examples: Orig. Cat. After Price 60% off* Dress 79.90 31.96 Twill Pants 29.90 11.96 Jacket 44.90 17.96 
• Not including sales tax. All items will be ticketed with the original catalog prices. Savings will be taken at the register. 
RESTOCKED EVERY DAY... HURRY BACK! 
Illustration for style only. 24-HOUR SALE INFORMATION 219 237-6915. Intermediate markdowns may hove been token. Use your cash, checks, FCNB PREFERREDs. Charge, American Express, MasterCard or Visa. Open 9to 10 Monday to Saturday, 1 0 to 6Sunday. Due to the special nature of this sale, we cannot ompt holds, returns or exchanges. 
versity of Washington, first re­ported his preliminary findings on the connection of sulfate emissions and global warming in a paper published last year in Europe. 
The new report amounts to an endorsement of the earlier findings by a larger field of global-warming experts. 
Researchers 
I
exam1ne sex of chickens 
WASHINGTON (AP) -It's not exactly a sex change operation, but it's close. 
Take genetically female chicken eggs, inject a chemical and here's what you get: chick­ens that look and act like male chickens. They even develop testes capable of producing sperm. 
The research results of scien­
tists Alex Elbrecht and Roy Smith will appear Friday in the weekly journal "Science." Their work addresses a fundamental question: what determines the sex of an animal? 
In the case of chicken em­bryos, researchers can induce "successful sex reversal of fe­males" in the early stage of de­velopment, Elbrecht and Smith write. 
That's because chicken go­nads are "bipotential" -that is, they have the capacity to be­come ovaries or testes. 
The key to Elbrecht's and Smith's work is a substance called an "aromatase inhibitor." 
The synthetic chemical com­
pound is being evaluated for treatment of breast cancer in women. And studies are under way to see if it can be used to treat male infertility. 
Elbrecht and Smith injected it 
into genetically female chicken 
eggs in the first seven days of 
incubation. The inhibitor blocks 
the effect of the enzyme aro­
matase, a protein, that helps 
determine sex. 
The enzyme ordinarily con­verts the male hormone testos­terone to a female sex hor­mone, estradiol, giving the chicken female physical characteristics. 
Elbrecht and Smith found that the genetically female chickens they treated had large combs on their heads and wat­tles -flaps of loose skin ­under their beaks, just like males. 
What's 2 1/2 years of labora­tory research mean in the real world? 
This may be good news for the broiler industry. 
It's more economical for broiler producers to feed male i chickens. They grow more 1 quickly and eat less feed per I pound of body weight than fe­I 
,j I I 
males. Studies on that point are under way. It's still way too early to tell if 
l
the research results can be 
~ 
applied commercially. 
Correction 
An article in Monday's Ob­server incorrectly para­phrased statements by HPC Co-Chair Charlie James. The article should have read that James thought someone from HPC would make a motion to open the Tuesday night meeting to the public. The Observer regrets the error. 
I 
J 
1 
~ 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, January 24, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •...•..•.......•..•••.. Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor •••.••.•••.•••....Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor •••••.•...•.•••David Dieteman Production Manager ............Jay Colucci Accent Editor.................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ads for Gourmet Burger Bar underestimated possibilities 
Dear Editor: 
We are deeply dismayed at the tremendous gulf between the number of advertised possibilities available at "The Gourmet Burger Bar" and the actual wealth of combinations we students are provisement that has been smattered across our campus falsely claims that there are "36 ways" to prepare your burger, there are in fact far more. According to our calculations, taking into account that there are 19 cold toppings, seven cheeses, six hot toppings, and four types of breads, there e x i s t 1,052,523,300,000,000,000,00 0,000,000,000' 000' 000 possible burger arrangements. (NOTE: This figure is limited in its accuracy due to the machine used in its calculation.) 
This figure was acquired by multiplying the the factorial of the 32 available toppings and 


Parking crackdown upsets students 
cheeses by the four breads of­fered. This procedure of calculation assumed the tendency of "Burger Bar" patrons to select a single bread variety, as opposed to a mixed one. We leave the possible heterogeneous bread types (e.g.-white top, pumpernickel bottom; sesame top, wheat bottom; etc... ) to those who wish to further ex­plore the matter; however, keep in mind that sesame seed buns have plain white bottoms. 
While matters such as HPC expenditures are practical and worthy concerns, the issue of "The Gourmet Burger Bar" il­lustrates a more fundamental crisis, the widening gulf be­tween advertised facts and calculated reality. 
Jim Shiely Rob Horton Bob Sweeney Grace Hall Jan.21, 1992 
HPC should send resumes to Office of Student Affairs 

I SEJ.IT THeM A 
5HC.'5 
'The real voyage of discovery 

fAX JU5T SAYING I 
PREGNANT, 
WAS GOING THROUGH 
15N'T9f&~ 
consists not in seeking new 

~"81G CHANGf35." 
\ 
landscapes but in having

\ 
new eyes.' Marcel Proust 
Take a magic carpet ride and submit: 
QUOTES. PO. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
Dear Editor 
One sits back in amazement at both the rapidity and facility with which the HPC has demon­strated its own assimilation of the desirable administrative tactics modeled by both Holy Cross and Notre Dame infras­tructures just slightly over a month ago. And to think, they didn't even forget it all during 
DOONESBURY 
010 YOU lEU YOUR IAJtL.L-, NOT PARENTS 6XACTt-Y... ABWTTH& 
8A8YY8T, \ 
81XJP51b~ 
I 
the break. 
Upon graduation, I sincerely hope that at least 31 resumes will be forwarded to the Office of Student Affairs. You never know when we'll need such leadership again._. 
Craig B. McKee M.A. Theology '80 Jan.21, 1992 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in reference to a recent complication involving the D6 parking lot (the lot be­hind the security building). It seems that there are a good number of male underclassmen living in the south quad who registered their car under a senior's or a female's name so that they may park in D6 and avoid having to park in D2, which is located next to the towers. 
It seems that over Christmas break the administration has decided to "crack down" on these perpetrators by running a check on most or all of the cars to find those that are ille­gally registered. I understand that there is a rule stated in DuLac that prohibits this and I understand the punishment of having to forfeit my D6 parking sticker and purchasing a new D2 sticker for $25. 
This in itself is very inconve­nient considering I drove my car over a thousand miles for 17 hours just so that I can have it here, and now I have to take a 20 minute walk to even get to my car whenever I need to use it. My only complaint here is that I have never seen the D6 lot being overcrowded during the whole fall semester. Perhaps the rule itself is outdated considering the newly-paved, larger parking lot. It seems that the university plans to empty out one lot and overcrowd another. I know because I have seen the available spaces in D6 and in D2. 
Here's the added twist: not only are they asking me to for­feit my parking space, but they have also imposed a $100 fine for breaking the rule. This, of course, is not stated in DuLac. On top of that, they have also imposed a $100 fine to the senior who registered my car for me. Do you think he's going to pay his fine? Forget it! It's my car, and I am the one parking in the wrong lot. Let's see, that adds up to $225 and being moved across campus. I think that anyone reading this letter can see that this a ridiculous amount of money to have to pay for such a non-malicious offense. 
Considering that this hefty fine is being applied to all the other offenders, I cannot help but notice that the university expects to make thousands of dollars from all the "illegally" parked people. I also cannot help but think that the reason that these fines are being im­posed is for the school to make money. Why else would they crack down on a problem that was not even a problem to begin with? 
I, for one, feel that the school is committing a worse crime than we are by attempting to take all of these student's money. They realize that they can hold the students responsible for these fines if they ever want to graduate. Did the administration really think that everyone would happily pay these fines without questioning them at all? Did they think that the opinions of the fined people towards this school would not change? I suggest that those in charge reevaluate the situation because I, for one. will never pay the fines. Perhaps others feel the same way. 
Eric Jubin 
Fisher Hall 
Jan.21, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

~ 

Viewpoint
Friday, January 24, 1992 page 11 
AIDS is not worthy of disproportional funding 
America should not return to archaic values of the 50's 

According to the Centers for Disease Control, last year $750 per patient was spent fighting AIDS, $280 per patient was spent fighting cancer, and $220 per patient was spent fighting Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, as anyone who watches the news knows, the nation's atten­tion is definitely more focused on AIDS than on any other dis­ease: AIDS has its own Presidential Commission, there are regular and well-publicized anti-AIDS rallies, celebrities hold televised benefits and press conferences to press the fight against AIDS. 
Would the money and effort spent on AIDS be better used in the fight against cancer and Alzheimer's? For the following two reasons, I will argue that the answer is 'yes.' 
First, AIDS, unlike Alzheimer's and most forms of fatal cancer, is generally easily preventable. The vast majority of AIDS cases (around 9S%, according to the CDC and World Health Organization) are contracted through illegal drug use, promiscuous sex and pros­titution. Unless you're a he­mophiliac, you have very little chance of catching AIDS unless you engage in one of these three activities. Kimberly Bergalis and Ryan White are not typical AIDS patients. Magic Johnson is. 
Imagine the reaction if scien­tists found easy and virtually 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rick Acker In My Opinion 
guaranteed ways of preventing Alzheimer's and cancer. The world would rejoice, the fight against these diseases would be declared decisively won, and we would turn our attention to other problems. We have a vir­tually guaranteed way to pre­vent AIDS; don't do drugs and don't sleep around. Therefore, we should obviously spend much more of our time and money fighting diseases like Alzheimer's and cancer than we do fighting AIDS. 
The second reason to spend less money on AIDS and more money on cancer and Alzheimer's is that, as pointed out above, 19 out of every 20 people who catch AIDS are do­ing something immoral and/or illegal at the time (i.e. engaging in prostitution, promiscuous sex, or illegal drug use). To catch Alzheimer's or cancer, on the other hand, you need do nothing blameworthy or unlaw­ful. Shouldn't we be more in­terested in helping the innocent than the guilty? 
The analogy of drunk driving is helpful here. Given the choice, who would you save; (1) a drunk driver who died in a crash caused by his drunken­ness, and (2) an innocent driver who died when his car crashed after skidding on a patch of ice? Given the option, of course, most of us would save both, but if you could only save one, wouldn't it be the innocent driver? Likewise, shouldn't we help Alzheimer's and cancer sufferers before we help AIDS patients. 

Perhaps the most common re­sponse to the arguments I have just made runs something like this: "Acker is presupposing a false dichotomy: We don't have to choose between spending money on Alzheimer's and spending money on AIDS. Rather we should give more to private medical research foun­dations, cut defense spending, raise taxes, cut welfare spend­ing, etc. to provide money for all diseases." 
The problem with this re­sponse is that it is unrealistic and assumes unlimited re­sources. In a perfect world we would not need a large military, people would give more to the American Cancer Society, and 
~ :ould never blow leads in the second half. In the real world, however, we have many need and not nearly enough money. Moreover, real­istically there is a fairly inflexi­ble limit to what the govern­ment and private individuals are willing to spend on disease like AIDS, cancer and Alzheimer's. 
As a general rule, charitable and governmental spending patterns over the past ten years have shown that every dollar spent on AIDS is a dollar that won't be spent on Alzheimer's or cancer. Would it be nice if we could spend money on AIDS without taking it away from cancer and Alzheimer's? Yes. Will it happen? No. 
One final point should be made. As pointed out above, AIDS can generally be pre­vented by not sleeping around and not doing drugs, but we Americans are in a hysteria over "the AIDS crisis" and are willing to pour tens of millions of dollars (which is sorely needed elsewhere) into finding an AIDS cure. What does this say about our lifestyle priori­ties? It is as if we reacted to the drunk driving problem not by preventing drunk driving, but by doing everything in our power to make drunk driving safe. 
In short, much of the money we spend on AIDS should be transferred to preventing and curing diseases like cancer and Alzheimer's. The reasons for this are twofold. First, AIDS, unlike cancer and Alzheimer's, is generally easily preventable. Second, to contract AIDS, unlike cancer and Alzheimer's, one generally has to be doing something immoral and/or ille­gal. 
Rick Acker is a student in the Law School and an occasional Viewpoint columnist. 
I 
~ 
1 

Dear Editor: 
Jeffrey O'Donnell's letter mourning the loss of traditional values (The Observer, Jan. 17) negates the suffering and advancement experienced by women and ethnic minorities in recent decades. 
By blaming the liberating social movements of the 60's and 70's for today's problems, in addition to calling for a return to the archaic, op­pressive values of the SO's, O'Donnell reveals the narrow­minded viewpoint of a white male disillusioned by his loss of status and power in modern times. · 
O'Donnell's glowing picture of the SO's is skewed and unin­formed. While statements like "You were able to walk the streets at night" and "schools were productive institutions" indicate a vague, naive glorifi­cation, even worse is O'Donnell's failure to mention the dilemmas facing women and minorities during that sup­posedly wonderful time. 
His contention that "in the 1950's America was at the 
pinnacle of the world" undoubtedly rings comical to many women and minorities who lived through that decade. 
The women of the SO's expe­rienced extreme social pressure to conform to a limited, tradi­tional female role. Society's ideal woman of the time was a pleasant, pretty, moderately in­telligent housewife who put the concerns of her husband, home and children before her own. If she was employed, the SO's woman was, for the most part, restricted to typical women's fields: teacher, nurse, librarian. 
She was not supposed to be ambitious, nor was she allowed the sexual freedom afforded to men. In addition, although the worst sexist laws had been re­pealed by the SO's, some minor ones continued to exist. In Alabama, for example, women could not serve on juries until 1966. 
African Americans also lived in a state of oppression during the SO's. In many states, Jim Crow ordinances remained in place, separating the races in all aspects of daily life. in 19S4 did the Supreme Court rule that racial segregation in schools was unconstitutional, but many states hesitated for years to embrace the law. 

The Montgomery busses did not become desegregated until 1956, after Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat. Lynchings and unfair laws permitting voting restrictions continued to plague African Americans in the SO's. 
In light of these unfair prac­tices, O'Donnell's statement that "shows like My Three Sons and Leave it to Beaver rovided the epitome of American life" is particularly disturbing. Perhaps these programs depict the kind of life that O'Donnell might have led had he lived in the SO's, but both shows evade reality in their failure to ac­knowledge the discontent and oppression of women and mi­norities at the time. 
O'Donnell's belief that these shows represent the ideal American life leads to frightening conclusions. Does he wish all women were dead, like the mother in "My Three Sons"? Or does he think that women should be cheery, subservient housewives who never wear pants and always cook wearing high heels and perfect make-up, like June Cleaver? Would he prefer that minorities not exist, as in both shows? 
Indeed, O'Donnell hardly seems concerned at all about the rights and conditions of women and minorities, as shown by his disapproval of the civil rights and women's libera­tion movements: "The public chaos, divisiveness, and vio­lence fostered by the move­ments of the 60's and 70's dealt a death blow to the moral America... the 1960's actually ruined America," he says. 
First of all. it is wrong to place the blame for social tur­moil on oppressed individuals who fought for their legitimate rights. Rather, we should con­demn those who so staunchly resisted (and continue to resist) change and advancement. 
Furthermore, civil rights and women's liberation might have ruined an America that would have pleased O'Donnell, but these movements improved the lives of millions of women and minorities by bringing greater dignity and equality to their l;ves. To continue that im­provement, this country should move forward, not look back to an unjust past. 
O'Donnell is searching for an antiquated world when he laments: "Whatever happened to Mom, baseball, and apple pie?" He needs to realize that a lot of good things have happened to them. Mom got a job, and baseball became racially integrated. As for that apple pie, if Jeffrey O'Donnell wants som.e so badly, then he ought to go bake it himself. 
Laura Gritz Siegfried Hall 
Jan.20,1992 




\ 
t 
\ 
t \ 
l i 
l 
\ 
l 
t 
{ 
t 
l 
l 
l 
{ 
t 
l t 
'1 
{ 
J 
l 
I' 
.. 
I 
·i ; 
·( 
1 
1 
:t 
JANUARY 24-26 
.weekend calendar friday 
MUSIC Starlettes, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Tony Graffeo, Bridget's, 10 p.m. 
0 
Way Past Tense, Sneakers, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS Swimming NO vs Ohio State, Rolfs Aquatic Center, 6 p.m.;; 
saturday 
MUSIC Freddie Jones Band, Club Shenanigans, 1 0:00 p.m. Way Past Tense, Sneakers, 10:00 p.m. Access Denied, Club 23, 10:00 p.m. Flying Bohemian Brothers, McCormick's, 10 p.m. Brian Muller and Colin Clary, Grace Coffee House, 9:30p.m. 
EVENTS Swimming NO vs St. Bonaventure, Rolfs Aquatic Center,? 2p.m. 
sunday 
I EVENTS 
I South Bend Symphony Chamber Orchestra, ~ O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 2:30p.m. ~ Organ Concert, Sacred Heart Church, 8 p.m. 
I 
~ films 
FRIDAY "Point Break," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "La Femme Nikitla," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. 
SATURDAY "Point Break," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "La Femme Nlkltia," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:15 & 9:45p.m. "Startrek I-V," Theodore's, 8 p.m. -5 a.m. 
Th 

Girls Scouts visit LeMans Hall as a part of S.U.R.V., a program that concentrates on helping women and children. 
Wanted:VOlunteers who care 
By Thomas Steele Accent Writer 
T 
he Center for Social Concerns offers many opportunities for the Notre Dame community to work with children. One such opportunity is the Community of Caring program. This program is part of the curriculum at Clay Middle School in South Bend and allows for children with special needs to be cared for in a normal elementary school environment. 
Notre Dame students have been involved with Community of Caring since Spring 1990 when a field study was done at schools with similar programs. This study was then submitted to the Kennedy Foundation who gave its approval to the Clay Middle School to implement these programs. A similar program was to be started at the Navarre Middle School, but a schedule conflict prevented the implementation. 
Senior Jennifer Jennings, who has been with the program since its inception, says that each school organizes their Community of Caring programs differently. One thing they have in common, however, is that they are all "value based pro­grams." "Some of the values stressed are caring, trust, re­sponsibility, respect, and fam­ily." Jennings states, "These programs are designed to cre­ate an atmosphere that they may be lacking." 


Some of the classes that the Community of Caring volun­teers work with are classes for the learning disabled, kids who speak English as a second lan­guage and physically and emo­tionally handicapped. Volunteers are expected to be ready to tutor, entertain, or just to talk to the children in these programs. The kids look forward to the arrival of the Notre Dame students, because they offer a break from the normal studies, and they offer an older brother or sister that many of them need. 
One other program offered by Community of Caring is the Success Program. This pro­gram places highly motivated junior high stvdents one on one with a Notre Dame student. They talk, receive tutoring, or even career advice. 
The students in the Community of Caring program need adult role models with whom they can relate, and the volunteers fit this need well. The vans leave for Clay Middle School every Thursday and Friday. If anyone is interested in volunteering for Community of Caring, or if more informa­tion is desired, contact the Center for Social Concerns for more information. 
Saint Mary•s 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Accent Writer 
S 
U.R.V. It's just another volunteer center, right? Wrong. 
S.U.R.V., Specs Unica 
(the only hope) Resource and Volunteer Center of Saint Mary's, concentrates on "serving" women and children. "Being a women's college, our focus is on women and children," said Sharon Zint, S.U.R.V. coordinator. 
S.U.R.V. opened their doors last fall and operates with two main purposes. One is to increase the information of volunteer services to all students, and the other is to promote the involvement of Saint Mary's students in the local community. 
"'Into the Streets' was S.U.R.V.'s first major project last fall," said Zint. The program gave Saint Mary's students a chance to take part in a trial volunteer experience. Choices ranged from YWCA to St. Margaret's House and Logan Center. According to Zint, about thirty students participated in the project. 
Volunteers were taken on a tour of Saint Joseph's County Courthouse. A representative of Common Cause, a local organi­zation, showed students the failures of the court system, according to Zint. Not your ordinary day of volunteer work. 
How about teaching kids to recognize the dangers of poisons? According to Zint, the Campfire Boys and Girls group sponsors a program called "I Can Do It." This program taught kids how to be self-reliant when at home alone. A few Saint Mary's students who went found the trips to be fun and 
-xi~::fo¥·~~-~ .~:::· )1i~'~.,:~'''' 

-/~· 
:#}::~t·-,. -~ 
~~~¥ 
~···· 
Saint Mary's student, Sheila Ganghan, for Spes Unica (the only hope) Resour ~ Observer page 13 


students willing to S.U.R.v. others in need 

RESOURCE& VOLUNTEER CENTER 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

worthwhile. 
S.U.R.V. works with many clubs and faculty departments on campus and has set up academic internships with service agencies in Saint Joseph County, says Zint. Saint Mary's students have the chance of earning up to three credits. One internship is through the psychology department in conjunction with Legal Services of Northern Indiana. 
Clubs at Saint Mary's can find volunteer opportunities with S.U.R.V. Last fall, the Economics club worked with the YWCA. 
"Incorporating service with a Christian obligation is a goal of ours," said Zint. When S.U.R.V. worked with the Theology de­partment and Campus Ministry, many projects were set in motion. 
One such program instituted involves Saint Mary's masses. This semester, each mass is "adopting" an agency. At LeMans Hall, they are "adopting" the Center for Homeless in South Bend. Saint Margaret's House will be spon­sored by Holy Cross Hall. Regina Hall will take on the YWCA. 

One Sunday a month, each hall will be asked to p_ray for their agency. Requests for volunteers will be made and a "wish list" taken up, .said Zint. The "wish list" will be anything that students can give up in support of their group. 
What S.U.R.V. has done in one semester alone is enormous. Future plans for this semester include providing more information to the students. According to Zint, Another "Into the Streets" program is possible. While post-graduate opportunities are in the works, summer vol­unteer projects are now being made available to Saint Mary's students. 
"Getting students involved in these programs are key," said Zint. The possibilities abound and are waiting for students to take advantage of them. 
S.U.R.V.'s office, a student-run organization, is located in the Haggar student center at Saint Mary's. A steering committee, made up of facutly and students, gives advice to the center. 
The new logo for S.U.R.V. re­flects their personal drive at Saint Mary's College. Created by a Saint Mary's alumna, the logo evokes the feeling of the Holy Spirit rising out of a sweeping hand. 
Within a college community students tend to become isolated on campus. It is difficult to remember that only blocks away there are families who desperately need to know someone cares and is willing to help. 


Knon Hall establishes tradition of service 
By CHRIS HANIFIN 
Accent Writer 
C 
hristmas might be over, but there is at least one hall which is attempting to maintain a spirit of giving throughout the semester. Next week, Knott Hall will be holding its 
third annual Social Concerns Week. 

According to Knott's Social Concerns Commissioner Vaneeta Monteiro, "It is a time for all of Knott's residents to participate in activities for both self en­richment and to help the community." 
"We don't yet have a lot of traditions," Monteiro said. At four years old, Knott is one of the younger dorms on campus. "We hope to make awareness and service part of our tradition," Monteiro added. 
There are a number of activities planned for next week. On Monday night, a nutritionist will be present between 6:30 and 8:30. Nutrition and eating disorders will be discussed during this time. 
i

This presentation will be followed by Knott Hall's 
I

movie night at nine o'clock. Monteiro said that one of 
I 

the hall's goals this year is to incorporate more movies I of a multicultural nature into the schedule. A social has been scheduled on Tuesday for all Knott and Grace residents who participated in the Center for 
j
Social Concerns' Urban Plunge program. Further information is available in both Grace and Knott. J For Wednesday night, Knott has made arrangements ~ 
1

for a self-defense course, which will be sponsored by the 
1 

South Bend Police Department. The session should last 
approximately one hour and is the first in a series of five 
sessions. There is a limited number of spaces in the 
class open to residents of other dorms on a first-come, ~ 
first served-basis. 
On Thursday, a number of residents will visit the Center for the Homeless in South Bend in the afternoon. Several other students will cook dinner that evening for the University-sponsored Dismas House. 
Throughout the week, Knott Hall will be running a sponsored exercise bicycle ride. The dorm has agreed to match the proceeds raised in this event. All money contributed will be donated to Sexual Offense Services, a South Bend organization which seeks to aid abused women. 
Anyone wishing to be a sponsor or wanting further information can contact Vaneeta Monteiro at 283-4999. 

----------------------------------.------------------------------------­
Friday, January 24, 1992

page 14 The Observer 
Notre Dame compared to a play by Chekhov 
Mid-morning on a Wednesday in January. if you asked me what's happening at Notre Dame, I could assure you that nothing's happening; if it were, would the place seem so dead? 
By mid-morning on any weekday, the dining halls have served breakfast to several thousand students; the dorms have furnished them with the water they need for washing, brushing, and flushing; and two-thirds of the freshmen are waiting for the bell to ring, ending their nine o'clock classes. 
But now is the winter of our discontent, and the doldrums are upon us; and absolutely nothing that has happened lately on this campus is worth writing home about. From now until spring break, the under­graduates will lead lives of quiet desperation. The post of­fice may keep busy delivering rejection notices or the unex­pected valentine, which may be good for a laugh. 
Still, these are the dull weeks that try men's souls, and we would be freer of pain if we could stop breathing. If we were bears, we would hibernate, and wait for the gray weather to pass. 
Even in the autumn, when football is king, the University can seem static, like a play by Chekhov. Sometimes from off­stage, we hear the ring of the axe biting deep into roots, as the trees of the cherry orchard are cut down; but who of us would dream that the mere clearing of land, the casual de­struction of beauty, could sym­bolize changes that would blow us away? 

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Chekhov's characters don't seem to change much; instead, the world changes around them. If those characters can't adjust to the new order, they become mere ghosts belonging to the past. At the benches in the Grotto, you can meet ghosts, who turn out to be Domers whom the parade has passed by. 
Notre Dame, evolving, seems to follow a script that could be written by Chekhov. In the Sixties, when students placed themselves in charge of the academies, the scenario for change could have been written by Dickens, using "A Tale of Two Cities" as his model. Students, in their feistiness. en­listed everything but the guillo­tine to help them get their own way. 
Even today, you meet the young and the restless whose idea of justice is to feed every hostage they have taken to the lions. If they had their way, the season of our discontent would be used for a carnival when witches are hanged, whether they need it or not, to help the campus from feeling bored. 
In the Sixties, the big question on campus was "Who is in charge?" Maybe "Who is in charge?" is still the $64,000 question in American educa­tion. Maybe the strength of a Catholic college run by priests is that the students know who is 
American 
Red Cross 

HalfOf This Year's Medical School Class Got There With Our Help 
No one can guarantee your acceptance to medical school. But we can guarantee that you'll score your highest on the MCAT. Our unique Test Your Bestr... guarantee is your insurance policy. If you're not completely satisf;rd with your MCAr score, we'll let you repeat the entire course...at no charge! 
We offer expen live instruction, innovative home study materials, unlimited revjew in our TEST-N-TAPE* labs and lots of personal attention. That's why Stanley H. Kaplan has prepared more test takers, and produced more top MCAT scores, than everyone else combined 1 
! STANLEY H. KAPlAN 
Take Kaplan Or TakeYour Chances 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 PHONE 219/272-4135 
For other locations call800-KAP-TEST 


in charge. 
Then the $64,000 question could be: "What do you mean when you say a school is Catholic?" Holy Cross priests tend to keep the Catholicism at Notre Dame close to the main­stream, I think. They're embar­rassed to hear the Pope and Cardinal Ratzinger described as lightweights like Calvin and Hobbes. 
On the other hand, the designation of Sacred Heart Church as a minor basilica leaves them doubtful, since this honorary title from Rome seems dear inappropriate for the dear old church that Ed Sarin built. 
But the moral vision of priests is small beer in keeping a school Catholic except perhaps in name. The Catholic character of Notre Dame goes on trial every time the students hit the streets to go pub-crawling. Why do they insist on flying the school colors while acting like bores? Maybe they imagine they're out of the reach of the priests in charge. 
To their great credit, thou­sands of young Darners have their own moral vision which they brought with them from home. Notre Dame will survive the students who insist on drinking until the cows come home. How would you feel if you heard that Notre Dame after dark was a Dionysian Disney World? What if you started to hear that if it weren't for the Notre Dame students, the local abortion clinics could go out of business? What if you were told that the public health officers in South Bend are gravely concerned over the large number of Notre Dame students with sexually transmitted diseases? 
If I were to hear that Notre Dame was turning into a place where the students could be­come an endangered species, I hope I'd be more concerned about helping them than about judging them. You could ask: what good's a religion if it doesn't save the children from the death traps of the age? But shouldn't we wait to see if that's a question the children will ask themselves? 
Whenever the Catholicism of Notre Dame is called into question, I notice that it is usu­ally brought up in an ac­cusatory way: "How could this kind of thing have happened at a place that is supposed to be so Catholic?" 
If statistics were to become available indicating that Notre Dame students are as free­wheeling in their sexual lives as the studs featured in "Playboy" the critics could have a field day: "How can AIDS and abortions be part of the lifestyle of allegedly Catholic students at holier-than-thou Notre Dame?" 
The answer may be that "Catholic" is not, nor never has been, a word that signifies "perfection." A Catholic is only a sinner disposed to be open to God's saving grace. Up to now, perhaps, grace as an idea has not been as necessary to our Catholic survival as the air we breathe. 
Perhaps Notre Dame's great endurance test as a Catholic in­stitution still lies ahead. Here is the Catholic catechism that can serve you in all seasons. "Christianity is a religion that celebrates the way sinners are bonded to their Saviour. The Mass memorializes the love of Christ dying for our sins. Sinners are the Church's RAISON D'ETRE; unable to be holy, Christ is holy on their be­half." So why should anyone be scandalized to discover that Notre Dame is part of an on­going rogues' gallery of sinners who take turns in backsliding? 
The Catholic religion wasn't invented to be used like opium, to keep the natives from getting restless. Notre Dame can never be Catholic enough to save the students from making choices that will leave them wounded. But Notre Dame has helped many, I suspect, by serving them as an inn of the Good Samaritan, where the balms of Gilead are available to aid their recovery. 
Notre Dame's greatness as a Catholic school doesn't come from keeping the students in a state of grace, but in helping them find the grace for a lifetime that awaits them on the far side of shabbiness. 
The winter of our discontent feels like a play by Chekhov. All of us, without knowing it, are a part of a great mystery. If you're humble enough to un­derstand that, you'll be gentle in the way you put Notre Dame on trial. 



SCOREBOARD 
page 15 

NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS · -TRANSACTIONS 
WALES CONFERENCEEASTERN CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlalon BASEBALLAtlantic Dlvlalon 
w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dlv Amerlc:an Leaguew L Pet CE L10 Streak Home Away Coni 
NY Rangers 30 17 2 62 193 163 16-6-1 14-11-1 11-8-0 CALIFORNIA ANGELS-Named John McNamara Boston 25 15 .625 6-4 Won 4 17-5 8-10 15-11 Washing1on 28 15 4 60 204 155 13-7-1 15-8-3 13-7-0 special assignment scout-catching instructor.
New York 23 15 .605 
1 5-5 Lost 1 15-4 8-11 18-11 Pittsburgh 24 17 5 53 207 174 10-9-4 14-8-1 12-10-2' Agreed to tenns With Bert Blyleven, pftcher, and Philadelphia 19 21 .475 6 6-4 Won 3 12-7 7-14 12-14 New Jersey 22 15 7 51 172 134 15-6-3 7-9-4 7-9-4 Jose Gonzalez. outfielder on minor leagueMiami 19 22 .463 61f.i! 5-5 Won 2 14-6 5-16 15-12 NY Islanders 17 23 6 40 171 187 10-10-4 7-13-2 7-8-3 contracts.

New Jersey 18 2t .462 6112 7-3 Won 4 12-10 6-11 9-16 Philadelphia 14 23 9 37 129 159 9-8-6 5-15-3 4-12-3 MILWAUKEE BREWERS-Agreed to terms wfthWashington 14 25 .359 10 112 3-7 L06t 4 6-13 8-12 7-17 Adam• Dlvlalon Chris Boslo, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
Orlando 9 30 .231 15 
3-7 Lost 1 5-13 4-17 7-16 Montreal 30 15 4 64 155 111 18-5-1 12-10-3 15-6-2 National League
Central Dlvlalon 
Boston 23 19 5 51 165 162 15-7-2 8-12-3 11-8-2 CINCINNATI REDS-Ag~ to term& with Scott Chicago 35 5 .875 
10-0 Won 11 19-2 16-3 23-3 Buffalo 17 22 8 42 165 175 12-7-4 5-15-4 6-10-3 Bankhead, pitcher, on a one-year contract.

Cleveland 26 12 .684 
8 7-3 Won t 17-4 9-8 20-6 Hartford 15 22 6 36 133 150 8-9-6 7-13-0 7-11-3 FLORIDA MARLINS-Named Jonathan D. 

Detroit 23 17 .575 
12 B-4 Won 1 13-B 10-9 12-11 Quebec 11 30 5 27 143 190 11-12-1 0-18-4 6-10-2 Mariner vloe president of finance.
Atlanta 21 19 .525 14 6-4 Lost 1 13-6 8-13 9-13 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to termsMilwaukee 19 20 .487 15 tl2 4-6 Lost 2 14-5 5-15 12-13 Norrla Dlvlalon with Jinn Gott, pitcher. on a one-year contract. 
Indiana 15 26 .366 20112 2-8 Lost 2 12-9 3-17 8-15 w L T Pis GF GA Home Away Dlv NEW YORK METS-Traded Mark Carreon. 
Charlotte 11 30 .268 24 112 3-7 Lost 5 7-12 4-18 7-17 Detroit 27 14 6 60 193 156 17-7-2 10-7-4 12-5-2 outfielder, and Tony CasUio pitcher, to the Detroit WESTERN CONFERENCE Chicago 21 18 10 52 164 149 17-6-4 4-12-6 8-8-4 Tigers lor Paul Glb&on and Randy MarshaH, 
Midweat Dlvlalon 
pitchers.w L Pet CE L10 Streak Home Away Conf Minnesota 20 20 4 44 150 159 13-B-3 7-12-1 9-8-3 PITTSBURGH PIRATES-Agreed to Ierma with St. Louis 21 19 8 50 173 169 15-6-3 6-13-5 7-10-3 
Utah 26 15 .634 7-3 Won 4 17-1 9-14 14-6 Toronto 13 30 5 31 122 178 8-13-2 5-17-3 6-11·2 Jim Leyland, manager, on a five-year contract. 
Houston 22 18 .550 31/2 6-4 Won 2 13-7 9-11 13-9 Smythe Dlvlalon Agreed to term& with Gary Vmho. outfielder, on aSan Antonio 22 18 .550 
31/2 6-4 Lost 1 12-5 10-1315-11 Vancouver 27 13 7 61 169 136 15-5-4 12-8·3 15-6-3 one-year contract. Invited Cecil Espy, Jose Denver 15 24 .385 10 3-7 Lost 2 12-9 3-15 9-17 Winnipeg 20 20 9 49 149 151 13-10-2 7-10-7 6-9-5 Tolentino. Ty Gainey and Keith Miller, outfielders; Dallas 13 26 .333 12 1-9 Won 1 8-13 5-13 8-14 Calgary 20 19 7 47 179 163 1 1-6-4 9-13-3 9-9-2 Joe Redfield. Infielder; Brian Fisher, Mike Dalton. 

Minnesota 7 33 .175 18 112 2-8 Lost 7 5-17 2-16 5-21 Los Angeles 18 19 10 46 171 183 9-7-7 9-12-3 9-8-5 Mark PetkOYsek. Eddie Dixon and Bias Minor, 
Pacific Divlaion 
Edmonton 18 23 7 43 173 188 10-8-3 8-15-4 10-11-4 pitchers, and Brian Dorsett catcher. to trainingGolden State 26 10 . 722 8-2 Woo 5 13-5 13-5 18-8 San Jose 10 33 4 24 118 209 8-11-2 2·22-2 7-13-3 carrp as non-roster players . 
Portland 26 13 .667 1 1/2 7-3 Won 1 17-5 9-8 11-9 Wedneaday'a Game• ST. LOUIS CARDINALS-Agreed to terms with 
Phoenix 26 15 .634 2112 7-3 Lost 2 16-3 10-12 18-7 B06ton 5, Toronto 2 Buffalo 5, Pittsburgh 4, OT Tom Pagnozzi. catcher, on a one-year contract. 
LA Lakers 23 16 .590 4112 6-4 Lost 1 13-6 10-1013-11 Los Angeles 3, Minnesota 3, tie Chicago 4. Quebec 2 SAN DIEGO PADRES-Agreed to term& with 
Seattle 20 20 .500 8 4-6 12-8Lost 2 B-12 14-9 N.Y. Rangers 4, Calgary 4, tie Los Angeles 6, St. Louis 5 Randy Myers, pitcher, on a one-year contract. 
LA Clippers 20 22 .476 9 3-7 
Lost 2 14-7 6-15 11-15 Thuraday'a Gamea N.Y. Rangers at Edmonton, (n) BASKETBALL Sacramento 12 27 .308 15 112 3-7 Woo 
2 9-8 3-19 5-17 Late Game Not Included Frlday'a Gamea National Baaketball Aaaoclatlon Thuraday'a Gamea 
Montreal 3, Boston 1 New Jersey at Washington, 7:35 p.m CHARLOTTE HORNETS-Activated J.R. Reid. Late Games Not Included Utah at Denver, (n) 
Vancouver 3. Detroit 1 Calgary at San Jose. 10:35 p.m. center, I rom the injured list. 
Detroit 111, Minnesota 100 Portland at Seattle. (n) Toronto 4. N.Y. Islanders 3 DETROIT PISTONS-Signed Gerald Henderson. 
Houston 109, LA Clippers 96 LA Lakers at Sacramento. In\ Winnipeg 1, Philadelphia 0 guard, to a 1 0-day CO!ltract. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

CUSTOMIZED WORD PROCESSING Reports/resumes/letters. 271-1618. 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from ND 233-2342/10-5:30 M-Sun 
$$NEED MONEY?$$ news carriers needed Call Kathy x4026 
ALTERATIONS AND DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL 259-8684. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
MATH TUTOR-All levels. Don't wait 'til it's too late! 271-1532 
FAST EASY INCOME! Earn 1OO's Weeekly Stuffing envelopes. Send self-addressed stamped envelope to: Extra income! 
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago,IL 60681-1699 
LOST/FOUND 
FOUND: gold/brass earring medium sized, hook goes through your earring hole type, hanging kind of tear drop shaped with a thing in the middle (hard to describe) Found it in front of the library right before break 
·cALL 288-9421 if this sounds familiar 
LOST: Ladies gold watch. Lost Mon. morning, 1/20. If found PLEASE call Tanya at x2738. REWARD. 
LOST: HEAVY GOLD CHAIN BRACELET ON FRIDAY 1/17/92 BETWEEN ADMIN. BLDG. & ACC. CALL LISA 289-8227 IF FOUND. REWARD. 
LOST-NJ Drivers License-Very important since I need to drive and I won't be returning home until after graduation. Please return and get a reward $$$. Call Lauren X­1711. 
If you lost a gray tweed jacket at Critter's wedding. call Twohy at 277-4395. 
LOST: GOLD RING WITH JADE STONE. LOST ON JAN 22ND IN ROOM 23 OF HAYES-HEALY. HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL VALUE. $REWARD. CALL LISA AT X4832 Found: scarf in Niewland 
classroom: call 1007 to claim 
WANTED 
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING 
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
SALES OPPORTUNITY · Motivated for independence and 30% commission? The right time is NOW (317) 782-8907. 
TEACHERS NEEDED The Rankin Educational Group is looking for highly qualified instructors for air LSAT, GMAT, GRE, and MCAT prep courses. Part time Work/Flexible hours/Good salary. Please call 273-1866. 
The Rankin Educational Group is 
seeking part-time student workers 
for a unique grad. school prep. 
company. Many different postions 
available. Flexible Hours/ Good 
salary. Please call273-1866. 
Soph. or Jun. Engineer 
for Design Project 
at WNDU. 
Counts for credits!! 
Great Experience!! 
call Steve x1 002 
$40,000NR! READ BOOKS and TV Scripts. Fill out simple "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, relaxing at home, beach, vacations. Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 Copyright #IN 11 KEB 
YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING 
BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN. FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, 
AIR. TRANSFERS. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­7710. 
I need a ride to Alabama for Spring Break. Call 
Bob-2455. 
SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona, $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas $449. Best prices & accommodations guaranteed'!! 1 (800) 724-1555 or 236-5825 (24 hrs.) 
FOR RENT 
HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO. WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287-2159. 
6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.SECURITY SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992. 272­6306 4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR 
RENT FOR 92-93. HURRY, NOT 
MANY LEFT. SECURITY 
SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. 
287-4989. 
HOUSE FOR RENT IN '92/'93 
5BR, 2 BTH. 1800 SO FT. 

washer/dryer, recently remodeled, 
near ND 
call 232-8256 
ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL 
UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794 
PAUL. 
LAFAYETIE SQUARE 
has 1-four bed and 
1-five bed unit avialable for next 
year 
Call NOW, they won't last long 
232-8256 
Off-Campus Aprt. Open 
Furnished Studio with kitchen if interested call: Matt at 283-1518 

Downtown Mishawaka office for lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.) 900 sq. ft.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a month. Call 272-6877. 
Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. Ten minutes from campus. Safest neighborhood in area 324-2626. 
TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR 
CAMPUS, SECURITY SYSTEM, WASHER & DRYER, 4 BDRMS, 9 MO. LEASE, 4-5 STUDENTS, DEPOSIT REQUIRED. 259-7801 OR 255-5852 FOR MORE INFO! 
FOR SALE 
Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a Notre Dame Cook. $3. M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml 49120. 

CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright# 1N11KJC 
Zenith Portable Laptop, bklit, wlbatt, 2 3.5" drives, EC, Call Chris x1723 

5-CD carousel player-good condition. Got new player for Xmas. $100 080 Sean 273-9403. 
TICKETS 
MICH-ND B-BALL TICKETS NEEDED. 284-5084. 

I NEED 4 LOWER SEAT TICKETS 
FOR NO-MICHIGAN BASKETBALL 
GAME. 
Call Lynn at x4940. 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE! Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. Boston/NY City. Super kids, great food, friendly atmosphere. 1 00+ staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, arts/crafts, all land/water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper. wilderness, woodwork, AN, more! 6120-8122. Call/write CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP. 
SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER VACATIONS! Jamaica, Bahamas including airfare, great hotel, and much more from only $599. Buy from the #1 name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136. 
TALL "COWBOY" wanted for Country/Western dance partner. Call Jen x1715 
A SUPPORT GROUP FOR 
SURVIVORS OF RAPE will be offered free of charge this semester by Sex Offense Services (SOS). Co-facilitated by trained student SOS advocates, it will be open to all ND/SMC students. Held on campus, the group will be completely confidential. For more info, please call the SOS office at 234-0061 X231. 
ATIENTION Women of Farley: Yes, Pop Farley Week is still going. Tonight is dorm dinner at the dining hall, and word has it that we're all supposed to dress like SYR dates in navy and khaki. Don't make plans. because we're locked into a night of decorating. For what? THE DANCE, Saturday night. 
TOP 1 0 REASONS WHY PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE PERFECT MAN: 
10. He sits quietly wherever you put him and behaves 
9. He never even LOOKS at other women. 
8. You can make him look any way you want-and yes-you can even control his size... 
7. Black-Red-Yellow-White-{Blue ???) Any color you like! 
6. He listens to all your problems and doesn't judge you. 
5. He doesn't make blond jokes (or brunette jokes) (or any jokes at all!) 
4. He's there whenever you need him. 
3. He smells good! 
2. He never calls you a "dumb girl" 
AND THE NUMBER ONE REASON WHY PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE PERFECT MAN: 
1. When you have PMS and you feel like bashing someone's head against the wall, he won't mind if you shmush him into smithereens! 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, LA!!! 
Here's to a year filled with seeping o' plenty and lots o' legal beverages! 
Love, Your new 'older' sister 
SCHMEGMARRIFFIC! 

Kristin L. called my dad to tell on me nya nya nya 
01/28 Living with AIDS-an informal talk with an NO alumnus:Lioyd Sims, '71. Tues 28th, 7:30pm in the CSC.?'s call Brian 1663 
LABAS HEDYTE. 
AS TAVE MYLIU LABAI DAUG so you wanna do something sometime? 
lets go see tony at bridgets 
**TO OUR DEAREST SMCS** Kelly and Laurie, 2nd floor Lemans, who are searching DESPERATELY for that coveted MRS Degree -We suggest that you be more submissive to those stallions on 4th floor Flanner. Love & Kisses -G, C, & T. 
ATIENTION: SPRING BREAKERS 
INTERESTED IN: 
CANCUN BAHAMAS SO. PADRE DAYTONA 
OR PANAMA CITY 

CALL LANCE@ 271-1681 
We have found the land of Wowgirls. 
ADOPTION Happy, loving couple wishes to raise your white newborn with warmth and love. Can provide financial security and education. Medical/legal expenses paid. Please answer our prayers by calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800­456-2656. 
hey nif 
Liam. 
Hey Babe Have fun in Sicily. 
love, Moira. 
STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate. summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville. Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
ROB; 
Keep sending letters 
on the computer. 
We miss you ........... . 
Mo, Bagel, Leener & Fanny 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
FAX MACS Fax your Mac 
documents for $1 page. Free 
campus pick-up of your disk. Call 
Michael at 237-1864. 
Attention ND/SMC 
LULAC is proud to invite everyone to a mixer on Friday night at Theodore's. Music is by Martin-E­Mix and it's guaranteed to be the night of your life, so if you don't show up, you'll really regret it. 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
SALE OF 
GUATEMALAN GOODS 
JAN. 22, 23, &24 
WED. THURS. FRI. 
SORIN ROOM -LA FORTUNE 
9-5 
A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Panama City $99, Padre $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399 from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681 or Lisa 283-4667 or 1-800-638-6786. 
Metal Loft Dan 232-0550 
To fly-man and friends: Ribit, Ribit. -Frog-man 
**SATURDAY** 
TONY GRAFFEO 
Acoustic Amalgamation 
*BRIDGET'S* 
10pm-2am 
Carla Garcia is still in her BUTI­ROOT GROWING condition. Cards and letters can be sent to 245 Siegfried Hall 
Alright T, I'm done wich you now!!! 
CANNONBALL!!!!!!! Good luck this weekend Dive hard 
Hey Guys 2-Michelle is waiting for you on the first floor of Farley ... So, come and get it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Sorry. Michelle, it had to be done 

---·~----------~~--------~------------~---------------------­
Friday, January 24,1992 

page 16 The Observer 
filled from a five-team pool, which will include Notre Dame,

Bowls
NEW COLLEGE FOOTBALL ALLIANCE the champions of the Big East 


FIESTA BOWL 

ORANGE BOWL 

SUGAR BOWL 


The Observer/Brendan Regan 
is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page perso~al statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Jan. 24 to Mon1ca Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 
continued from page 24 
the Big East and the ACC has taken 11 months to negotiate, officials explained Thursday. 
The coalition should simplify the process of choosing bowl matchups and increase the likelihood of a college "national championship," but it is not a playoff formula, officials stressed. 
The alliance prefers to characterize the deal as a way of improving all bowl games by arranging for the highest­ranked teams to play each other, Corrigan said. 
"We've increased possibility of getting a 1-2 game, and that's one of the things that makes it special," said Corrigan, acknowledging that fans may find it difficult to understand the deal. 
Under the agreement, the Big Eight will continue to send its champion to the Orange Bowl. The Southwest Conference­Cotton Bowl and Southeastern Conference-Sugar Bowl affiliations will also continue. After the Big Eight, SWC and SEC champions are determined, the other slots for the four bowl games will be and ACC, and two other highly ranked at-large teams. The at­large teams could be independents or conference members. 
W. Harper Davidson Jr., president of the Orange Bowl, said the proposal from their cross-town rival left left his people "a little anxious." 
"We felt that this coalition was the best for college football, the ACC, the Big East, Notre Dame, the alliance as we put it together," Davidson said. ''To do anything different would have created chaos in the bowl system as we went along." 
"We felt it was in the best interest for everybody, because of the flexibility of the alliance, and primarily the fact that higher-ranked teams will have the opportunity to play each other more often," Maggard said. 
The coalition negotiations were nearly complete by the time Blockbuster made its offer, officials said. It and any other bowl games, conferences or independents wishing to join will be considered later. 
r=-\.... ·~~ .'f[urlle ·~Creek, 

Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 2/10 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 




--------~ 

• 



··'"' 
·~·-· 
... ,., :1". 
'r~ 
" 
t~­
".· 

•• 0 
t 
. -1 . 
"'., 
/if': 
-~~-_: 
December 25, 1991 Christmas Message from Our Lady, the Queen ofPeace 
"Dear Children! Today in a special way I bring the little Jesus to you that he may bless you with his blessing ofpeace and love. Dear -.•,•••..._-_.•_._·___-_-__·_-·_ children, do not forget that this is a grace which many people .... neither understand nor accept. Therefore, you who have said 
, that you are mine and seek my help, give all of your self. First of all, give your love and example in your families. You say that Christmas is a family feast. Therefore, dear children, put God in the first place in your families so that He may give you peace and may protect you not only from war, but also, during peace, may protect you from every Satanic attack. When God is with you, you have everything! But when you do not want Him, then you are miserable and lost, and you do not know on whose side you are. Therefore, dear children, decide for God and then you will get everything! Thank you for having responded to my call!" 
oin in Mass celebrating Our Lady's coming as the Queen ofPeace: 6:30p.m., January 25th, (tomorrow) in the the.Church ofLoretto (St. Mary's College) & receive Our Lady's January 25th message! 
Last year Notre Dame was host to participants from five continents attending the National Conference on ~tedjugorje. With the prospects of the 1992 National Conference (Mother's Day weekend, May 8-lOth) having an address by the Holy Father (on video), the presence of Vatican bishop, Msgr. Paolo Hnilica, S.J. (confidant of the Holy Father), Mother Teresa of Calcutta, Fr. Jozo Zovko, O.F.M., (the pastor of St. Jan1es -sent to prison by communist authrorities in 1981 ), etc., we expect an even greater turnout. 1-Ielp us! \'olunteer to help work on this year's National Conference: call 288-8777, 
Watch Channel 46's Medjugorje T.V. Program: A Message ofPeace, Sundays at 6:00p.m.! All are invited to attend our Medjugorje Prayer Meeting on campus every Sunday evening at 7:30p.m --Fatima Retreat Center (on U.S. 31 across from the entrance to St. Mary's College.)-­



page 18 The Observer Friday, January 24,1992 
Australians threaten to boycott basketball in Spain 
(AP) -Calls for the Australian for the U.S. Summer Olympic The Lakers, in a statement is­of the medical council of FIBA, Magic Johnson here," said 
basketball team to boycott team. sued through the NBA, said the international basketball Adrian Mac Liman, a 
I 
Olympic games against the United States if Magic Johnson plays were met Thursday by a worldwide wave of support for 
the HIV-infected superstar ­
including an All-Star berth. 
Johnson announced his re­tirement from the Los Angeles Lakers last Nov. 7, after testing positive for the virus that causes AIDS. But the NBA said Johnson could play in the All­Star game Feb. 9 after he re­ceived the fourth-highest num­ber of votes among Western Conference players. 
International basketball offi­cials and U.S. Olympic Committee representatives, meanwhile, said there was no health reason to keep Johnson out of the Summer Games. Johnson has said he wants to keep his spot on the U.S. team for Barcelona, although no final decision has been made. 


"The risk, especially in a sport like basketball, is very, very, very low," said Dr. Jim Montgomery, the chief physician 
Tigers 

continued from page 24 l 
the game. Tiger guard Lamont

I 
Frazier converted on a three­II I , point play to give the Tigers a 
I } 64-61 lead and the Irish did not get closer than three the rest of 
t j 
the game. Peeler buried a

I j 
jumper and two free throws down the stretch to ice the 


victory for the Tigers. 
Scouts 
continued from page 24 
tention," MacLeod said. "We thought we might of had him under control early in the game, but then he broke loose." 
Peeler also made a good im­pression on Sacramento Kings scout and former New York Knicks general manager Scotty Sterling. 
"I think he is going to be a good, solid NBA player," Sterling said. "He's got a strong body, can put the ball on the floor, operate in the paint and post up. He is also a very underrated passer, and the fact that he plays man-to-man now is going to help him." 
Despite struggling from the free-throw line, Ellis also dis­played the talents which should lead him to the NBA as a "late first-round pick," according to Sterling. 
"LaPhonso Ellis is one of the most explosive players in the country, and he has outstand­ing leaping ability," Sterling added. 
He demonstrated this explo­siveness on several occasions against the Tigers, as he had three blocked shots, including one against Peeler, and slammed home two alley-oop passes from Elmer Bennett. 
"One thing he should be con­cerned about is what position he is going to play up there [the NBA]. He has the skills of a power forward, but may not be big enough." 

Overall, both Peeler and Ellis showed why there were scouts ) on hand from the Indiana Pacers, Detroit Pistons, New
I ~ 
York Knicks, Minnesota Timberwolves, Houston Rockets, Sacramento Kings, 
On Wednesday, Dr. Brian Sando, the senior medical di­rector of the Australian Olympic Federation's basketball program, said that Johnson presented a realistic threat of passing on the infection if he played in Barcelona. 
"I would certainly recommend that our basketball players not compete with a team of which Magic Johnson was a member," Sando said. That risk -even though it's small -you cannot absolutely say it's never going to occur." 
Several of the Australian players agreed, but there was plenty of support for Magic's participation, both in the All­Star game and in Barcelona. 
"We have consulted with league medical advisors and with Magic's doctors and have been assured that Magic's competing in the All-Star game should not pose any health risk to Magic or the other partici­pants," NBA commissioner David Stern said. 
In the end, the Irish lacked the shooting touch to finish the job in a game that they certainly could have pulled out had a few more shots fallen in. Bennett and Sweet, so strong in the win against Marquette, did not have the accuracy tonight, going a combined 11-30 on the evening, and finishing with 13 and 11 points, respectively. 
Ellis, who led the Irish with 25 points and 12 rebounds in another strong performance, 

~·-~·>.C~~K•~aJ:<""X'(•SaK>.aK'"'aK~~~MIKMIM•:!aR, 
·------------------------·
r. .~. ;:,r.:P:;uc;uti:: .; ~ot'"~ q,,~"" .. .~-.wI 
J.H[&JPJPV1(Q)1lJh.

I-~'. pru~~w't:; ~· I~ 
IA Seminar On India 1 
JEllrrllih.~mv 


>.-C~~~i~;HIIK~Xe<:>.a<:~:>31Ki>~"'>~>.Xi<'~,>.-C!;: ~~ 
Things you WON'T see at the 
ntemationa estiva 
SATURDAY 
FEBRUARY 1st 
at 7:30 
"\VASHINGTON HALL TICKETSARESSATTHE ISO OFFICE ORATTHEDOOR 
WHILE THEY LAST 

I I
:V<t?J!Ifi'!J 2£, .1992 ttt 1:oo ;prm ;., tfi• ~ 5/i(~slJwrgfl lA611"1llf!!J -'l1JilfCiruP11"thnu ~ 
1 * Lectures on the economics, politics, 1 ~ and cui t ur e of India. ~ 
I · Hindustani Music and Classical ~ ~ Dance ~ 
~ • Traditional Indian refreshments ~ 
-, U are welcome! I
L 

Sando was "ill-informed. His views do not represent the pre­vailing medical opinion on this subject, and that is that the chances of contracting the HIV virus through athletic competi­tion are infinitesimal." 
That stance was shared by Montgomery, who said the USOC was "in total support of Magic." 
"If you read the literature un­til now, there has not been a single documented incident of transmission of AIDS in sports," he said. 
Mike Moran, a USOC spokesman, said Johnson's doctors should make the final decision whether he plays in Barcelona. 
"As far as we are concerned, his position with the U.S. bas­ketball team is secure," Moran said. "There is no documenta­tion of a single case of HIV be­ing passed through sport. Frankly, in basketball, we feel the risk is zero." 
Dr. Jacques Huguet, president 
lacked the touch from the free­throw line, hitting only 3 of 11, as the Irish hit a dismal 36% from the charity stripe. 
"I haven't missed that many for a long time," said Ellis. "You just have to forget about the last two and try to knock that one in." 
The Tigers improved to 13-2 on the season, while the Irish, who have yet to win at home in three tries this season, dropped to 5-8. 
federation, who said the chances of transmitting HIV by mixing of blood through colli­sion is "infinitesimal, maybe one in a million." 
"It would take a combination of incredible circumstances," he said in a telephone interview from his home in France. 
Huguet said he may raise the AIDS issue at his commission's next meeting in Budapest on May 1, but added: "For the moment, I see no reason to prevent him from playing. It will be up to his doctors whether they think he should play." 
Barcelona Olympic organizers said they still hope Johnson, a sports hero in Spain, will be part of the U.S. team. 
"Our official position is we would still be delighted to have 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! Applications now available for Senior Formal Chairperson Pick them up & return them to: LaFortune or Haggar Info. Desks Deadline: February 2nd 



spokesman for the organizing committee. "That hasn't changed as far as we're con­cerned." 
Sandro Gamba, coach of Italy's Olympic basketball team, said he saw no problem in playing against Johnson. 
"Personally, I don't share the stand of Australian officials," he said. "I don't think there is any risk in playing Magic." 
IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch has, on several oc­casions, said he has no objec­tion to Johnson playing in Barcelona. 
Last month, Samaranch said the decision will be to the USOC, which must determine whether Johnson can play "without danger for him and without danger for the others." 


Friday, January 24,1992 The Observer 
page 19 

Quarterback Mirer to announce NFL draft intentions today 
(AP) -Irish quarterback school quarterbacks when he Rick Mirer promised to end signed with Notre Dame in months of speculation with an 1989. will return to take announcement today of his another shot at a national decision whether to enter the championship. NFL draft. "You make a commitment to Mirer, a junior, has one year a school, you ought to honor of eligibility remaining but that commitment," Holtz said. has said he may forgo his final "If he talks to the right people, 
year to enter the draft. The he'Jl be back." deadline is Feb. 1. 
His father and high school In his second season as football coach, Ken Mirer, Notre Dame's fulltime starter, stayed mum about his son's Mirer passed for 2,113 yards decision when reached at the and 18 touchdowns, with 10 family's home in Goshen interceptions. In the Irish' 39­Thursday night. 28 defeat of No. 3 Florida in 
"To be honest with you. I'd the Sugar Bowl, he threw for rather not comment," he said. 154 yards and two "There'll be a press touchdowns. conference in the morning." "It's a situation where I'm 
Mirer led Notre Dame to a h · b t t d 
c oosmg e ween wo goo9-3 regular season in 1991 things," Mirer, a marketing and a Sugar Bowl victory over major, told the South Bend Florida. Tribune last month. "I value Coach Lou Holtz of course my education. I figure it's hopes Mirer, one of the important for me to stay in nation's most recruited high school. 
By CHRISTINE PENOTE 
SMC Sports Editor 
After not swimming against University of Chicago last year, the Saint Mary's swim team has been preparirg for Saturday's 
1:00 double dual meet with Wabash College at Rockne 
Memorial Pool. 
In past years Chicago was not considered to be one of the Belles' tougher competitors. The Belles brought home a "decisive win" in the 1989-90 season from their last meet against Chicago with many Belles swimming off events. Since the two schools' last confrontation, Chicago has had plenty of time to build to a 
much stronger and larger team. 
"University of Chicago has more depth now than ever before," says Belles coach Dennis Cooper. "Because they have more swimmers and better swimmers, we will have to swim extremely well in order 
SMC swimmers prepare for UC, Wabash 
Chicago presents new-found challenges for Belles 
to beat them this time." 
The Belles, like many swim teams, do not have specific areas to work on in preparation for a meet. 
"Unlike baseball or football, with swimming you can't really strategize," said Cooper. "We 
need the whole season to 
improve all around and then just train right through the meet. 
"The girls have the fundamentals down, now they just need to swim the pace that matches their capabilities," added Cooper. 
The University of Chicago boasts of strong breaststroke and distance freestyle swimmers. While Cooper believes Chicago will "be a 
handful," some of the Belles' greatest strengths come from fly, backstroke and distance freestyle swimmers. Kathleen Golski, senior captain and one of Saint Mary's prized distance freestylers, 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~------~----~------~~ 
He's Amazing... He's Exciting ... He's Zany ... He's Hilarious... And HE'S COMING TO TOWN! 
South Bend Uribune 

Irish SP-orts ReP-ort WSBT®TV22
and 
PROUDLY PRESENT: 

THE FAMOUS PtiOENIX SUNs• WILD AND CRAZY, HIGH FLYIN-, SLAM DUNKIN• ... 
7RE GORILLA1 
See The Gorilla and the Notre Dame vs. Dayton Basketball Game! 

ONE PERFORMANCE ONLY, AT THE 
NO,.RE DAME vs. DAY,.ON Men·s Basketball Game Monday, January 27th, 7:30 pm JACC • Upper Arena Tickets: Only $8.00 
Tickets subject to availability 

Tickets now on sale at the Notre Dame JACC (Gate 10) Box Office and local Ticketmaster locations. Or, for Credit Card Phone Orders, call: {219) 272-7979. (American Express, Visa, & MasterCard welcomed) 
NORTHWEST AIRLINES ~ 


I 
I By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
Trouble can't seem to stayI away from the Saint Mary's i I basketball team. In a matchup : in Chicago, Rosary College, 12­
2, blasted the 3-8 Belles off the court, 1 05-6 7. "We played a tough team," 
said guard Julie Snyder. " We 1 just couldn't come together as a ; team." i "We met a team that is very I physical. The officials let the 
them to play ball," explained Belles coach Don Cromer. "We ended up being the one's in foul trouble." 
The Belles didn't only have foul trouble. In the first half, Rosary's aggressive full court press forced 25 Saint Mary's turnovers. The Belles also shot 
poorly from the field, sinking only 38 percent in the first half, and 30 percent for the game. 
Rosary, led by sophomore guard Mary Stielman's 24 points, shot for 48 percent from the field. 
The only bright spots for the Belles in the Rosary onslaught came from senior forward Catherine Restovich and Snyder. Restovich tallied 22 points to lead the Belles in their scoring effort. Snyder led the Belles in rebounds, with 13, and added four blocks to her defensive effort. 
The Belles are resting today, but will be back on the court tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. to host Hope College. Not only is this a big game for the team's moral, but for one player, it's a reunion. 
Sophomore transfer Liz Vernesco played for Hope last season. Although she wasn't a starter, she did have a close relationship with both the 
I . 
players and the coaches. 
"It's going to be very hard because I know all the players and I am close with the coaches," explained Vernesco. 'Til be very excited and intense before the game, but hopefully it will make me play all the better." 
looks forward to Saturday's meet. 
"Right now my time beats my opponent's," said Golski. "But it will definitely be a challenge. Dennis has me nervous but excited to win this one." 
Cooper has high hopes for senior captain MicheJle Colburn 
as she will compete in the 200 backstroke. 
"In our last meet against Valpo, Michelle just missed breaking the school record in that event," said Cooper. "I think she'll do well against Chicago." 
Freshman Katie Northup has just recently begun to swim fly events. She is coming on strong after placing first in both 200 fly and the 400 iamb last 
weekend. Northup is optimistic about Saturday. "We're all really pumped for Chicago and all my practices have been great this week," said Northup. ''I'm really looking forward to this meet." 
Saint Mary's martyred by Rosary, 1 05-67 

__,......___"""'7'"--:---.,.._--......,......---""!'!-~~-----:-"":""'""-----~........----.,..__.,-===~~ .....-----,_-~----...--~~-----·-~--~----------­
page 20 The Observer Friday, January 24,1992 
Track teams open spring Fencers head into rematch with Lions 
j 
JJ 
~ 
i 
I 
I 
i /; ! j 
i -;
t •, 
i I {\ 
l~ 
iI li J 
!~ ~: 
i 
;.. 
f. 
! 
I 
) 
I 
l 
I J. 
~ 
r 
;~ 
)' 
~ 
j 
j 
1 
I 
j 
~
j 
» J f 
! 
I 1 
l 1 J 
~ 1 
l ( 
I 
I 
~ 
By JONATHAN JENSEN
with many challenges 

Sports Writer · 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track teams face their first test of the season at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference meet, to be held here today at 3:00 pm. 
The women hope to exact a certain amount of revenge on a team that is very familiar to the Irish runners. The men, how­ever, are just excited to get the competitions underway. 
"Everybody has been training hard," said sophomore Brian Brach, who along with Irish co-captain Ryan Mihalko will make up an outstanding shot put tandem. "We've been putting an extra couple pounds on the bar and I feel it's going to pay off." 
Since this is the first competi­tion, many of the Irish's top male runners, including the sprinters from the football team, will not be competing. Therefore, the Irish should be challenged. 
"It's not going to be a walk­away," said Irish head coach Joe Piane, "We're going to have to work to win." 
If they hope to emerge victo­rious, the Irish will need a good performance from their excep­tional middle distance and dis­tance runners. Senior co-cap­tain Brian Peppard, who is a member of Ireland's Olympic team, will lead in the 1000-me­ter run. Fellow senior Pat Kearns, who was the captain of the cross-country team this fall, is expected to carry the load in the 3000 meters. 
Sophomore Mike McWilliams and senior Shawn Schneider will be the runners to beat in the mile run. McWilliams is a two-time cross-country All­American and was the eighth American to cross the finish line at this fall's NCAAs. 
Also, senior Phil Caspar and sophomore Miguel Conway are expected to shine in the 400­meter dash, as is sophomore Chris Lilly in the 55-meter high hurdles. In the field, look for sophomore Todd Herman in the high jump and freshman Dan Grenough in the pole vault. 
As far as the women are con­cerned, their motivation is to beat Loyola. The Ramblers fin­ished just two points ahead of the Irish in last year's MCC track meet to finish second. More memorable though was when Loyola knocked off the Irish this fall, stealing the MCC cross-country crown from the defending champions by an­other two points. 
However, coach Piane has a formula with which to to defeat Young Detmer picks Colorado 
HOUSTON (AP) -Record­
setting  quarterback  Koy  
Detmer  of Mission, Texas,  
brother  of  1990  Heisman  
Trophy  winner Ty Detmer,  

made an oral commitment to Colorado, he confirmed Thursday night. 
"I was deciding between Colorado and Penn State," Detmer told KRIV-TV of Houston. "I liked the environment and the atmo­sphere (at Colorado), and I like the idea of them changing to a passing offense." 

have to pick up for the final test." 
Aside from Penn State, the meet will showcase three of the nation's top teams in North Carolina, Duke, and Stanford. Solid teams from Cornell and Cal State-Long Beach will also appear. 
To combat this pool of talent, Notre Dame will be sending a talented and experienced group of fencers to State College. 
The epee team, which cap­tured the lone Irish gold medal last week at the USFA Open, will be headed by senior All­American David Calderhead. He will be joined by senior Ben Finley, junior Per Johnsson, and sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak, who went 9-1 last week. 
"I'm interested to see how they'll match up against epee," noted DeCicco. 
The fact is, the epee team must rebound from their dis­appointment in State College last year if the Irish hope to impress this weekend. 
The men's foil team will be lead by junior captain Jeff Piper, who went 12-2 last week. Joining him will be seniors Mike Trisko (12-4), Ed Lefevre (3-2), and Tom Clare. Last week Trisko and Lefevre keyed an Irish comeback against Illinois in the semifinals on their way to a second-place finish. 
Sophomore Rian Girard (7-5}, will also be a factor. 
"If we (foilists) continue how we have been," said DeCicco, "We can be competitive." 
Senior captain Chris Baguer (10-0} and junior James Taliaferro (11-3) will key the sabre team. Re-joining the team will be senior Ed Baguer, who missed last week's meet because of outside training. Rounding out the line-up will be seniors Henry Chou (5-5) and David Kirby {3-0). 
"Ed's back with sabre," noted DeCicco, "And I'm hoping that along with his brother and James, they will be a force." 
The women's foil team has perhaps the best chance to cap­ture the gold this weekend, and they will be counting on the de­fending national champion, se­nior Heidi Piper (14-0}. The Irish will need more impressive performances from junior Kathy Vogt and seniors Mary Westrick (11-3), Tara Kelly, and Kelly Haugh. Another factor will be the re-emergence of senior Rachel Haugh, who was competing in Portland last weekend to represent the U.S. in the World University Games. 
"The women finished second last week," said DeCicco. "Whether they will be competi­tion enough to beat Penn State, I don't know." 
Loyola this time around. 
"The team to beat is Loyola," noted Piane. "But if we come out of the field events even with Butler and Detroit, and the middle distance and distance even with Loyola, we can win it with the sprints." 
Leading that sprint squad will be the sophomore team of Tasha Harris and Latrice Waters, as both will compete in the 55 and 200-meter dashes. Waters won the MCC 55-meter title with a time of 7.35 a year ago. Another sophomore. Kristin Stovall, will also add a spark in the 200. 
A pair of freshmen, Monica Cox and Lisa Junek, will lead the Irish in the 55-meter hur­dles, and Junek will also be a factor in the high jump. "They're both real capable ath­letes," said Piane of the two freshmen. 
Senior captain Diana Bradley, as she did in the fall for the cross-country team, will lead the talented corps of young Irish distance runners. 
Freshmen Emily Husted and Stefanie Jensen should lead in the mile, as will fellow new­comer Becky Alfieri in the 5000 meters. Yet another freshman, Kala Boulware, will also be very competitive in the 800-me­ter run. Junior Lisa Gorski, 

The Notre Dame fencing team will meet up with arch-rival Penn State on their home turf this weekend, in a meet that will help to decide the favorite to win this year's national championship. 
The fierce competition be­tween the Irish and the Nittany Lions all started at last year's NCAA Championships. The Irish had their second title in six years all but wrapped up, with second-place finishes in the men's foil, sabre, and women's foil under their belt heading into the last day of competition. However, the epee team lost all three of their matches and Penn State snatched up the title out from under Notre Dame's noses, forcing the Irish to settle for third. 
This year Penn State has ev­eryone returning and is the prohibitive favorite, while the Irish play the role of catch-up. 
Even with all of this consid­ered, Irish coach Mike DeCicco hopes that revenge is not in the heads of the Irish fencers. 
"I want to fence their best versus our best so the results will tell us what we're out for in the next 30 days," said DeCicco, in his 30th year as coach. ''I'm interested mostly where we 
who along with Bradley leads the younger runners, will ac­company freshman Kristi 
Kramer in the 3000 meters. 

YOU'VE KNOWN YOUR WHOLE LIFE
In the weights, the Irish are set with highly-touted junior 

YOU WERE GOING To BE A DOCTOR.
Karen Harris. She will look to defend her MCC shot put crown this weekend. 

DON'T RISK IT NOW. "If we don't let anyone get way in front of us in the first 
YOU'RE ALMOST THERE. YOU'VE WORKED HARD ALL THESE YEARS AND 
two events," noted Piane, "We 

NOW IT'S TIME TO TAKE THE MCAT. 
can hold our own." 

DONT YOU THINK YOU SHOULD PREPARE ? 

10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS 
MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S 8: M.D.s
kinko•s 

SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 
the copy ~._·en ttr 

CLASSES STARTING NOW! 

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 

o~=======================================,o 
triangle Drafting Supply 
~ 
1021 North Main Street Mishewaka. IncH-46545 


~ 

NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS 

Applications are now being accepted 
PLUS STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON 

for the position of 
MOST ITEMS 
M-F 8AM-5:30 PM SAT I AM-NOON 

Editor-in-Chief
Many Happy 
1992-93 
Returns 

Anyone interested in applying should submit 
Let Us Help You 

a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages 
with Your 1992 Taxes 

to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1992. 
® 

Further information is available from Kelley Tuthill 
BoY)i<PcOENTiR® 

at The Observer, 239-7471. 
Wt !Je/p yo11 find boois yo11 'U love. 
Addresa • Phone • Hours 

o~======================================~D 
I 
I I ~ 
I ... 
Friday, January 24, 1992 The Observer 
page 21 

Men's swimming faces challenges before MCCs 
By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
Coming off decisive wins over Northern Illinois and Cleveland State, the Irish men's swim team faces two more big challenges this weekend as Ohio State and Saint Bonaventure visit Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Many consider Ohio State to be the team to beat in the highly competitive Big Ten conference, and Friday night's meet against the Buckeyes will be a good measuring stick for the Irish. Last season, Notre Dame was on the short end of a 154-80 score, but Ohio State should expect a tougher meet this time. 
"Ohio State is definitely strong all around," junior Greg Cornick said. "Swimming against the caliber of competition they face in the Big Ten really helps them, but we think we have a good chance at sneaking up on them." 
They won't have to sneak up 
on Saint Bonaventure, 
however, a 189-92 loser to the 
Irish last season. 
"Saint Bonaventure is a 
really big rivalry," Cornick 
added. "They love to beat us 
and we love to beat them." 
This is a tough part of the season for the Irish, however. They are facing a difficult part of their schedule, but the con­ference meet is looming closer and it is becoming more diffi­cult for the Irish to focus. 
"Everybody's feeling pretty good right now, but I think we're getting antsy for the conference meet," Cornick said. "We're not looking past these meets, but we're all really excited about next month." 
That month may seem like an eternity for the Irish, who have three big meets after this weekend before the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championships begin on February 27th. 

Spring season full of potential 
Irish women's tennis led by seventh-ranked Harris 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

This spring season is one of 
great potential for the Notre 
Dame women's tennis team. 
Buoyed by the success of a 
strong fall season, the Irish en­
ter this season ranked 25th in 
the country as they prepare for 
a dual match against Ohio State 
this afternoon and the Eck 
Doubles Classic the remainder 
of the weekend. 
The doubles tournament will 
feature the Irish, along with 
Indiana, Ohio State, Miami 
(Ohio), Temple, and Eastern 
Michigan. 

After building up stronger 
and stronger teams each of the 
last two years, this weekend 
could be the start of a year in 
which everything falls into 
place for coach Jay Louderback 
and his squad. 
"We haven't played much in the fall, so we just don't know what will happen until we get out there," said Louderback. "Ohio State has three very good doubles teams. They play well indoors because they hit the ball hard and come into the net a lot. I look forward to the match." 
"We're using (the Eck} to get some doubles match experience in, but its not something we're pointing towards." 
As the Irish begin the season, they will be without the services of senior captain Tracy Barton, who, because of arm troubles, will probably not play at all. Barton, the Irish' regular first­singles player the last two sea­sons, has been to the NCAA in­dividual tournament the last two years. How the team re­sponds to this adversity will be seen as the season progresses. 
"I decided that it was getting 
too hard going back and forth," 
said Barton. " It was too hard to 
play through the matches. In 
the end, things probably won't 
be shuffied around in the lineup 
so much, but it was definitely a 
hard decision." 
"Tracy's arm has been bad," 
said Louderback. "She's strug­
gled all fall and she and the 
trainers have decided that she's 
not going to play. She's been 
injured a lot, and you can only 
do that for so long." ·. 
However, Louderback feels 
that his team will be able to 
handle Barton's departure. 
"I think we 'II be just as 
strong," he said. "Katie Clark is 
back and playing well. Her back 
is feeling better and that's a big 
help for us. She'll be tough and 
will really strengthen our 
lineup. We have enough depth 
that we should be just fine." 
Clark, out of the lineup since 
last spring with a back injury, is 
looking forward to returning to 
action this season. 
"So far, there's been no trou­ble," said Clark, "and I'm keep­ing my fingers crossed. I haven't played a match in al­most a year. I'm really excited and can't wait to play." 
Clark will see limited action this weekend, probably only participating in one or two doubles matches, but is ex­pected back for the dual-match season in two weeks. 
Complementing Clark's return is the emergence of junior Melissa Harris. Harris, who played second singles last year, had a tremendous fall and has jumped to seventh in the coun­try, the highest ranking every 
for an Irish woman since the 
program jumped to Division I. 
Harris will most likely anchor 
the squad at first singles, and 
will set the pace for the season. 
But the Irish depth does not 
stop there. Freshman Laura 
Schwab and sophomore Christy 
Faustmann also had excellent 
fall seasons, and sophomores 
Lisa Tholen, Terri Vitale and 
Catherine McGinley, junior 
Eniko Bende, and seniors Ann 
Bradshaw and Kristy Doran all 
add ability to the roster. 
Notre Dame sports a singles 
lineup with six players who 
could be legitimate number-one 
players at other schools, but in 
the past, have had trouble 
putting it together at doubles. 
The Eck tournament will be a 
good chance to see how strong 
the team will be in that de­
partment, and their success in 
doubles will be vital to their 
success this season. 
At the current time, the line­ups for both the dual match against Ohio State and the doubles tournament had not been set. The Ohio State match begins at 3:00 p.m. today, and the doubles tournament is slated for 8:00 a.m. on both Saturday and Sunday. All matches will be played at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish play 13 of 21 matches at home this season, a complete turnaround from last year, and face a schedule that includes 11 teams either ranked or receiving votes in the current poll. It will be a strong test of how far the program has come under coach Louderback, and a team berth in the NCAAs is def­initely within their grasp. 

SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Late 
Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Interested persons should contact their hall LNO representative for information on the latest night of the year-Late Night Olympics, Friday, Jan. 31. 

•Attention 
all rowers, the first meeting of the year will be held on Wednesday, January 29. Novice rowers should begin running on your own, as official workouts begin January 31. Any questions call Dave Reeder. 

•Hapkido/Tae 
Kwon Do starts Monday, Jan. 20. Practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean (3457}. 


"DAZZLING! 

WILDLY SEDUCTIVE AND EROTIC!'" 
-Peter Tr••ero. ROLLING STONE 


Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
C I NEMR AT THE SN ITE 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:15, 9:45 
-. 

Gomez hurt as Bulldogs maul slumping Irish in Indy 


,• 
( 
( 
L'l 
I 
r 
~t 
1
~ 
tr 
Jl 
}I 
t 
;) 
t 
I 
). 
; 
j; 
~ 
I,)~j) 
r 
ji 
j, 
J. 
}
f 
) 
4 
) 
J
J 
j j,; 
~ 
I 
. 
,, k 
j 
J~ 
\ 
·~~ 
r." 
t 
J 
I 
I 
r 
·' 
·--~--~-----------~-------~.----~--·--~-------­
page 22 The Observer Friday, January 24,1992 


The Observer/A. Garr Schwartz Coquese Washington looks for the lane versus Stanford. Washington and her teammates had difficulty finding lanes last night versus Butler. 
Due to a·university computer malfunction,DART was not · available Tuesday and part of Wednesday. To offset any conveniences to students the DART period will extend 1 day to include Friday Jan. 24th. DART lines will be open through midnight on the 24th. 
Harold L. Pace Office of the Registrar 


CAMPUS COMPETITION Indoor Soccer (Men & Women) Badminton Doubles (Open) Co-Ree WaterVolleyball 
INTERHALL COMPETITION RecSports Swim Relays (team event) 
QUESTIONS ? CALL...239-61 00 
Deadline -January 29 

By RENE FERRAN Associate Sports Editor 
INDIANAPOLIS-When a team is mired in a slump, noth­ing seems to go right. 
For the Notre Dame women's basketball team, that's exactly how things are going right now. 
The Irish (4-11, 1-2) once again found themselves unable to make easy shots, and it cost them again last night, as they fell to Butler 77-63 at Hinkle Fieldhouse. The Bulldogs (6-10, 1-4) broke a five-game losing streak with the victory, while Notre Dame lost its third straight and fifth in its last six games. 
"We're at a point now where we're pressing too hard," said Irish assistant coach Sandi Botham. "We missed a few layups, and that's what killed us. If we make them, we'd have a little confidence, and that was the difference in the game." 
Notre Dame shot only 39 per­cent from the field (29-75), while Butler recovered from its own poor first half shooting to hit 51 percent overall. The Bulldogs shot 64 percent in the second half to take control of a game that was still up for grabs at halftime. 
"We've been playing only one good half of basketball per game recently, and that was usually the first," said Butler coach Paulette Stein. "We con­centrated tonight on having a good second half as well." 
The Irish broke out slowly in the first half, scoring just six points in the first 8:14 of the game as Bulldogs pulled out to a nine-point lead. Junior Julie VonDielingen, back in the starting lineup for Butler after a five-game absence, scored six of her game-high 21 points during that stretch. 
"She's our silent leader," said Stein of VonDielingen. "She means a great deal to us, because she always knows what to do with the ball." 
Notre Dame got within four points with two minutes left in the half on two Audrey Gomez free throws, but the Bulldogs scored the last six points to take a 33-23 lead into halftime. 
Butler stayed hot coming out of the locker room, scoring 11 straight points during a 15-6 run to grab a 48-29 lead with 
13:18 left in the game. The Bulldogs were handling the Irish press fairly handily, con­verting for several easy layups. 
"I thought scoring on our first possession of the half was very important," said Stein. "We hadn't been able to do that in our previous five games, and it gave us some confidence." 
"We had a group on the court that we wanted to press with," added Botham. "We were trying to get a run of our own started." 
Instead, the Irish fell behind by as many as 22 points, 58-36, with 9:56 remaining, when they began their final push. Kristin Knapp came off the bench and hit three jumpers, and Dionne Smith added two layups to keep Notre Dame within striking distance, 60-44, with 7:46 left. 
Butler made three straight free throws to up the lead to 63-44 with 6:24 to go, but the Irish then went on a 14-5 run to get within 10, 68-58, with 2:33 remaining. 
They had a chance to cut it to eight with 2:20 left when Michelle Marciniak stole the ball from Bulldog point guard Mary Majewski at midcourt. but Marciniak missed the layin, and then fouled Majewski on the rebound. 
Majewski hit both free throws to build the Butler lead to 70-58 with two minutes remaining, and from there, the Bulldogs made their free throws to seal the victory. Majewski finished the night with 10 points, six as­sists and five steals. 
"One layup changes the whole complexion of the game," said Botham. "If Michelle makes that, we're within eight and we 
see BUTLER page 18 

OUR WORKSTATIONS HELP YOU MASTER 
MRYTHING FROM MATH TO SCIENCE TO MUSIC. 
BUT COME FEBRUARY, OUR DISCOUNT 
WILL BE HISTORY. 
NeXTstatio6.. computers are extremely fast and pJwerful workstations. But you'll have to be fast yourself to take advantage of our s~ial holiday savings, because they end January 31st. 
Even without savings, the price/performance of these workstations is unequaled anywhere in the industry. They offer features like an easy-to-use graphical interface, 8MB of RAM, enormous disk storage, astandard UN I~ operating system. true multi­tasking, and a 15MIPS CPU. They also have built-in Ethernet networking, alarge 
monitor with true display PostScript~ and a built-in DSP chip for 
~AVt ~I:MI 
CO-quality sound. 
NeXTstat1on 
They're ideally suited to every kind of academic work-from
400MBHD computation-intensive math and science projects to repJrt
SAVE $200 
wnting, complicated research, in depth analysis-and yes, even 
NeXTstation Color 
composing music. 
200 or 400MB HD 
That's partly because the best versions of many industry­SAVE $100 leading software prooucts are the ones written for NeXTstations. NeXT 400 dpi Laser These prooucts include WordPerfect~ Adobe Illustrator~ Lotus:" 
Pnnter 
lmprov;· Soft PC~ and agreat many more. Mathematica~ the acclaimed numenc-processing software, is even included free. 
Given all this, about the only way we could improve the price/performance of a NeXTstation is to make the price lower. Which is just what these s~ial savings do. 
We recommend you visit your campus reseller tooay-before this offer becomes ancient history. 
f..•/99/ x,xrCoMpNrn. '""· .l/1 ,p.,. ,,;rn·rrl x.:n: ~ .\r.'<1',,., f1Nti.\',_\'1>J"'i•• m• mNiriiUirlo •fx•.\T(~"''flllfrl'. INr \II Ol'l'r lntd,..,llriJ lllrtiiiDwrl lt.l''"'! ''~ 1lr11· m'*'t"-" "'""'"~· 
All Next Computers are sold at the University Computer Store Room 112 Math & Computing Bldg. 

Friday, January 24, 1992 
The Observer page 23 
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 



__, 


CROSSWORD LECTURES 
7:15 and 9:45p.m. Film, "La Femme Nikita." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. Admission $2. 
8 and 10 p.m. Film, "Point Break." Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2. 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE NOW! 
DAYTONA BEACH '""" Sf04

2:30 p.m. Lecture, .. Prospects for Peace in the 
5 ana 7 NIGHTS 

Middle East," Haider Abdel Shafi, leader of the 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND ,,om Sf28 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS $

Palestinian delegation to the Middle East Peace talks. 
82
STEAMBOAT '""" f~ 
2. 5 AND 7 IVIGHTS

Washington Hall. Admission free. 
PANAMA CITY BEACH """'Sf22 
7 NIGHTS 
FORT LAUDERDALE ''""'SfJ6 
7 NIGHTS

4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "Algorithms in 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND '"''" Sff9

Group Representations," Dan Rockmore, Harvard 
5 AND 7 NIGHTS 

University. Room 226, Mathematics Building. 
MUSTANG ISLAND I ,,....1128 

Admission free. 
PORT ARANSAS 
S AND 7 NIGHTS 
ltth Annual Celebration!
MENU 

TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
t·800·321·59tt

Notre Dame 
----------­

Pierson Deluxe Turkey Sandwich Vegetable Egg Rolls 
··--• ...~,.,_~··-··1
··-·--.--·-··..­

Meat Lasagna Lemon Pepper Catfish
@Edward Julius Collegiate CW8730 
SPRING BREAK
r 
= fOUTII PIIORE 1 

ACROSS 47 Famous du11111y 15 Wretchedly bad Saint Mary's 
"' lfLIINO ~ 
49 Sea birds 20 Key to heredity

1 Wander 51 Clumsy fellow J... •High quality beachfront accommoda-I
23 Smudged Chicken Jambalaya
5 Outfit 52 Beaver -25 Atomic-bomb ~~ tions tor 7 exciting nights. ~ 
Deli Bar
8 Rich Little, e.g. 54 Tiny substance I' •Round trip chartered motor coach. I 
13 Take without right 55 Sound system 27 Hors d'oeuvre Roast Beef 
fr\' •Free ~I deck parties. activities. & 4

15 -Fair 57 Fence of stakes spreads Savory Rice Spinach Bake 16 From Kingston 59 Word before 29 See 32-Down 1 promotions. '1 
17 Did Housework Highness 30 N.Y. time (abbr.) • •Inter-Campus Programs !.D./Discount ,. 18 ----loss for words 60 Inflamed with love 32 With 29-Down, Clara 
'fll' 'r'
card.

19 In a cold manner 61 Anything of value Barton's find ~ • On-location staff for complete J..
21 Physicians (abbr.) 62 Golfer Floyd 33 Greek letter 
'rr\' assistance. lfJ

22 Mason's equipment 63 Gainsay 34 Cauldron 
J... •All taxes, tips, & service charges I

24 Actress Keaton 35 Flatters 25 Country of 1932 DOWN 36 Class of trees ~r included. ~ Olympics 39 Buddhist supreme
26 Sloping passage 1 Type of ruler happiness I 11· ··11 28 -king 2 Speechmaker 41 French number 
., r$199 ~ 1r $.:.:9 ,,

29 Greek island 3 Fleet 42 Cyrus McCormick 31 Merit 4 Bygone bird invention 
~ WITHOUT T!IAHSPORWIOH WITH -l "' 

33 Requested from God 5 Went speedily 44 Watch out for 34 Empty 6 -bread 45 Country of 1912 ~ For mfoonaoon a00 ....,..lfionS l 37 Like Abe 7 Kindly Olympics 38 Doted on 8 Name in Cohan 47 -gin 
'I' CALL JAMES rf~ 

39 Not yet final, in song 48 Procrastination law 9 Ending for dom 50 Like watermelon 
' AT 277-9249 ~ 

40 Stephen Sondheim 10 Imagination (2 wds) 51 Greek peak 
output 11 Repeats 52 Part of % 41 -Geller 12 Miss Charisse, 53 Edge 43 Hoagies et al. 56 Sandpiper 46 Eye cover 14 Mr. Young 58 Turf 

= 


----~-----~ ~----· 

Sports 
page 24 Friday January 24,1992 
Irish shooting falls short against Missouri 
to score on you."
By RICH SZABO 
The Irish regrouped, and 
Sports Writer 
pushed ahead to a 27-17 lead on the strength of a three point
After the road trip was said 
play and a fast-break bucketand done, the Notre Dame 
from Sweet, a Carl Cozen tip-in, men's basketball team returned 
and an Elmer Bennett-to­
home to the friendly, sometimes LaPhonso Ellis alley-oop dunk raucous, confines of the JACC. 
leading the way.
There's no place like home. 
The Tigers, however, used aUnfortunately, the Irish, who tight, aggressive defense to shut 
may have been a little over­
the Irish down for the
anxious to perform in front of remainder of the half, going on
the home crowd, dropped a 
a 14-6 run to pull to 33-31 athard-fought contest to the 12th­
the half. Missouri shot 52
ranked Missouri Tigers, 77-68. 
percent from the field, while
At the beginning, both teams 
the Irish connected on 46
played tenacious defense, with percent of their shots from the
neither side scoring a bucket 
floor.
until the 17:53 mark, when 
Missouri came out on fire at
Daimon Sweet scored on a the start of the second half,
driving hook to start a quick 8­bursting out of the gate on an2 Irish run. 
7-0 run to pull out ahead to aMissouri stormed back to pull 40-33 lead. Crudup scored four
within two, 12-10, on two 
points in the run, including a
jumpers by sophomore forward 
follow-up of a missed free
Jevon Crudup, and buckets by throw by Peeler. 
seniors Jamal Coleman and 
After the Tigers had extendedAnthony Peeler. Peeler would 
their lead to 49-40, the Irish
terrorize the Irish all night 
scored three straight buckets
long, winding up with a game­
on a Bennett jumper, an Ellis
high 2 8 points. 
dunk off a Sweet steal, and a"We tried to keep him (Peeler) Jon Ross jumper. 

from getting the ball," said Irish The Observer/Garr Schwartz 
Ross, who had one of his best

coach John MacLeod, "but we La Phonso Ellis throws down one of several dunks during the first half of last night's matchup with Missouri. 

II outings of the year, finished 
'• weren't able to do a real good 

with 10 points and four
job there. This guy was the top 
rebounds, including pounding 

Ellis, Peeler draw NBA scouts to JACC
player in the country two years the offensive glass to tip in a 
ago, so he comes with 
Bennett miss, pulling the Irish LaPhonso Ellis of the Irish and first-round selection in the NBA

credentials. This is a guy of By MIKE SCRUDATO 
to within three, 53-50. A three­the Tigers· Anthony Peeler. Draft, scoring 19 of his 28quality. He made his shots, he 
Sports Writer 
point play by Ellis tied the score The scouts were not disap­points in the second half. 
made his free throws. This is a 

at 53, and the teams traded as Ellis 25
pointed, scored "Down the stretch we wanted

big-play player." Amongst the crowd of 9,27 4 
buckets four times to up the 
points and pulled down 12 re­to have the ball in his hands,"
Echoed Irish forward 

people in attendance at the
score to 61 apiece. 
bounds and Peeler took over Tiger coach Norm Stewart saidLaPhonso Ellis, "He's kind of 

Joyce ACC for last night's Notre 
At this point, Missouri's 
down the stretch to lead the of the Big Eight's leading scorer.
like (Daimon) Sweet. You give 

Dame-Missouri game were
defense contained the Irish 
Tigers to a 77-68 victory. "Peeler is a tremendous
him that many opportunities, 

scouts for ten NBA teams who
while outscoring them 16-7 
After struggling early, Peeler player, who attracts a lot of at-
you put the ball in his hands 

were there to see the senior
over the final seven minutes of showed why he is viewed as athat many times, and he's going 

standouts of both teams,
see TIGERS page 19 see SCOUTS page 19 
Notre Dame signs onto college football bowl coalition 
MIAMI (AP) -The Big East that encourages the teams Atlantic Coast Conference is to lucrative, year-round contender for a national and the Atlantic Coast ranked 1-2 in The Associated be part of this association." merchandizing and scholarship championship game. If we're Conference on Thursday Press poll at the end of the Blockbuster Entertainment deals in each college town. artificially restrained from rejected a proposed tie-in with season to play each other each Corp. chairman Wayne "I don't know that there is a pursuing those teams that the Blockbuster Bowl. leaving Jan. 1. Huizenga had said he might future. What's left?" said Bob would make such a game, you the future of the two-year-old "The Blockbuster Bowl made withdraw his sponsorship if his Guerin, executive vice-president have to wonder why you're in game in doubt. a terrific offer." ACC 10-year offer of $4.3 million of Blockbuster. "We've got to sit the business," Guerin added. 
Blockbuster was left out of a commissioner Gene Corrigan annually to the ACC and Big down and look at our options. The alliance among the nine-year deal between some of said. "It really did command East to send their champions to "Our philosophy has always Orange, Sugar, Cotton and college football's top bowl our attention. But the best thing Joe Robbie Stadium was turned been to build the bowl into a Fiesta bowls and Notre Dame, games and athletic conferences for college football and the down. The deal also included major event, to become a 
see BOWLS page 16 
Wrestlers face critical meets in busy weekend 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR takes each victory in stride. "I have one goal for the
Sports Writer 
season: to place at the national tournament" said Gowens.
Notre Dame's wrestling team 
"Every match is a steppingwill be busy this weekend, 
stone to that."
hosting Illinois State Friday Gowens (15-3) is 13 winsnight and traveling to Dayton 
away from 100 career matchfor the National Catholics 
victories, a figure which only
Wrestling Tournament on eight Irish wrestlers have
Sunday. 
achieved in the 35-year history 
The Irish, 2-2 in dual meet 
of the program.
action, swamped Northern 
"Marcus is doing the things a
Illinois last weekend with a 
senior should do," said McCann. 
score of 34-9. With the win, the "He's on a roll and he's veryIrish raised Notre Dame's all­confident right now." 

:.r-time victory total to 250. 
Illinois State is a crucial meet"Our guys did what they had for the Irish. The Cardinals, like to do to win the match," said the Irish, are from the Westerncoach Fran McCann. "There Region. And when seedings are were some disappointing areas, 
set for the Western Regional
but overall I'm very pleased." 
Tournament at the end of theSenior Marcus Gowens, the 
regular season, wrestlers'
126-pound stalwart of the Irish 
individual records against
team, increased his win streak 
others from the same region
to eight with a convincing pin are the primary criteria.

126-pounder Marcus Gowensputs Northern Illinois' John Willems in a treacherous position. last Saturday. However, Gowens 












