


~.!141ft
-Qe.­
1842 1992 
. liti--­
SESQUICENHNNIAI. 

eObserver 
Satnt Mary's Col leg~ 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

VOL. XXIV NO. 90 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) -A military transport plane plunged nose-first into the ground Thursday and smashed into a motel and restaurant, spewing blazing fuel and killing at least 16 people, authorities and witnesses said. 
"It looked like Pearl Harbor," said Mark Whitehead, who lives nearby and rushed to the scene. 
The Lockheed C-130 four­engine turboprop plane crashed into the rear of a JoJo's restaurant and the north side of the Drury Inn motel shortly before 11 a.m. EST. 
Burning fuel was sprayed hundreds of feet, sending flames 60 feet into the air and creating a tower of black smoke that was visible for miles. 
At mid-afternoon, the fire was out except for some smoldering spots. Firefighters sprayed debris with foam to prevent any re-ignition of fuel-soaked areas. 
Five of the dead were mem­bers of the Kentucky Air National Guard's 123rd Tactical Airlift Wing. They were on a pilot proficiency training mission, Guard spokesman David Altom said. 
Nine people died in the motel and two others were found dead in the restaurant, said Rick Woods, chief deputy coro­ner for Vanderburgh County. 
At least 19 people were in­jured; 14 were hospitalized, of­ficials said. 
Officials began removing the bodies from the hotel about 
6:30 p.m. EST, U.S. Rep. Frank McCloskey, D-Ind., told families who gathered at the C.K. Newsome Community Center for word about their loved ones. 

"I think one of the problems (causing the delay) is that there are plane parts along with the victims on the fourth floor of the hotel," said McCloskey, who learned of the crash during a meeting with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney in Washington. 
Brig. Gen. Julius Berthold, assistant adjutant general of the Kentucky National Guard, said a crash investigation team from Scott Air Force Base in Belleville, Ill., had begun its in­vestigation of the wreckage. By late Thursday, they had not found the cockpit voice recorder, which could help them determine why the plane went down. 
"We expect this will last sev­eral days, maybe even several weeks," Berthold said. 

Sandy Appler, director of marketing and public relations for Evansville Regional Airport, about a mile from the restau­rant and motel, said the plane's crew was using the airport to practice landings. 
"They were doing exercises known as touch-and-gos, where they touch down and fly out immediately," said Altom. "They did two touch-and-gos. And they asked permission for a low approach and were taking off when they fell into the ... hotel." 
"It dropped out of the air and 
APICynthla Greer 

into the Drury Inn's pool, and a wing came off and careened into the back of the JoJo's," said Whitehead. 
Fred Pratt of Bozem1u1, Mont., said he saw the plane drop vertically, "then all of a sudden there was this humongous fireball and it went down behind the buildings." 
JoJo's manager Dennis Serio said the plane "came through the window. I got up and every­one was running toward the door. Walls were falling in, steel was all over the place. One cook was knocked down, tried to get up to get back to the dish washer and just couldn't." 
Fifteen to 20 people were in the building when the plane crashed, he said. 
A cook, Michael Kelley, 26, of Evansville said he was in the rear of the building when the walls caved in on him and fire erupted everywhere. 
"There was a girl in the back. We were yelling for her, 'Lynette! Lynette!' And she was yelling back, 'Yeah, yeah. I'm here!' But we couldn't get to her," he said, weeping. 
About one-fourth of the restaurant was destroyed by the impact. The four-story hotel was damaged mainly by fire. Only part of the plane's charred tail was recognizable. 
The 24-hour restaurant and the motel are located on U.S. 41 in this city of 125,000 at the southern tip of Indiana. 
The C-130 Hercules is a workhorse for the military, a medium-range craft that carries mainly cargo or people on a variety of missions. The four­engine plane normally has a crew of five. It has a wingspan of 132 feet and is 97 feet long. 
Students provide tax assistance 
By MOLLIE MUDD 
News Writer 
Over 60 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will join about 30 local CPA volunteers to participate in the 21st an­nual ND/SMC Tax Assistance Program to help low-income tax payers complete and file their federal and state returns, according to ND accounting professor Ken Milani. 
Created and funded by the ND College of Business Administration and the Department of Accounting, the program offers free tax service and advice to Michiana resi­dents with an income of $24,000 or less. 
Participating Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will work with CPA volunteers from South Bend, Mishawaka and Plymouth, Ind., as well as members of ND and SMC fac­ulty, Milani said. With the large number of volunteers and the convenience of ten centers, he said that "Notre Dame has the largest program in the area." Last year, more than 1 ,800 tax returns were filed by the volun­teers. 
Milani explained that "Notre Dame has good coverage of the city." Most city-wide tax pro­grams have only one inconve­nient center. "We actually go into the low-income neighbor­hoods so the people can get to us easily," Milani said. There is also an expansion of CPA cov­erage this year with three cen­ters, instead of the previous 
see TAXES I page 4 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Brightening up the day 
Like the recent weather, the bright, yellow sculpture brightens the campus atmosphere. This sculpture was created by Michael Todd, a '57 NO alumnus. 
Students address ~ quality of teaching 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT 
News Writer 
Members of student government presented their report on the status of undergraduate education at a research university to the faculty and student affairs committees of the Board of Trustees yesterday. 
The report, titled "Back to Basics: Undergraduate Education at a 'National Catholic Research University,"' addresses the issue of how the quality of undergraduate education is affected as Notre Dame progresses into a national research university. 
The student committee said it used statistics and comments from faculty and student surveys as a basis for their claim that undergraduate education is no longer a primary focus at Notre Dame. 
According to the report, "Research has replaced teaching as the top priority of ad­ministrators and faculty. Undergraduate education at Notre Dame is suffering as a result." Increasing class size, decreasing course availability and limited student­faculty interaction all illustrate the negative effects of this transition, the report stated. 
Karen Stohr, the committee chairperson, focused her presentation specifically on problems of the College of Arts and Letters. She said that "if there are problems in the College of Arts and Letters, all students in the university feel them." 
She illustrated the pressures put on the college: nine out of thirteen university requirements are in Arts and Letters, placing a high demand on faculty. The course load on faculty, however, has been reduced from three to two courses per semester, she said. 
As a result, students both inside and outside the college have much difficulty getting into the courses they need to graduate. At the 200-level of philosophy, for example, an average of fifty-nine students per section were shut out, she said. 
Those students who do not get shut out 
see REPORT I page 4 

page2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Reaping the benefits of a little math 
After suffering the humiliation of making a "D" in Algebra II in high school, I said hell would freeze over before I agonize over matrix systems again. 

Hell has frozen over. Anna Marie Today I took the first finite Tabor math test of the semester. SMC Accent If you see me after you've Editor 
read this column, you will__....;;;;.;;;;.;~-­know I survived. While I want to do well grade-wise, I have discovered the value of mathematics and am not ashamed to say that using my left brain has changed my life. Three days ago I was sitting in my Writing for Publications class in the security building. I wrote the date at the top of my paper-2-4­1992-like I do in all my classes. Then I reduced it to 1-2-996. Last semester I forgot to record a $300 withdrawal from my savings account. (oops!) Imagine my surprise when I got a bank statement that sprung the news on me after I had gone shopping singing "I'm in the money." This semester I no longer wait 18 entries in my checkbook before dropping down the total. And I'm not afraid anymore of using basic mathematical operations such as, uh, subtraction. Linear graphs run through my mind as I walk back to my room after class. Imagine, if you will, the squares on the sidewalks that run in front of McCandless and on the LeMans side of the dining hall are points on the "x" and "y" lines. Now tell me you haven't wondered what the slope of the sidewalk is between McCandless and the library. At L.S. Ayres last week there was a special on cosmetics at the Lancome counter. I really get into these samples, but this time I'd have to purchase $17.50 of make-up to get the bonus. The Passionate Pink lipstick I want is only $16, so I'd have to buy two things. Very sneaky of Lancome. Before finite, I probably would have caved in a bought more than I needed. But now, thinking logically, I do the only logical thing there is to do. I head to the It's Clinique Bonus Week counter. There are some things about me that probably no amount of math will be able to cure. For instance, I still jump in on the end of conversations and draw some unrelated conclusion. I won't know the "x" of who, the "y"'of everyone's relationship to each other, or the "z" of why we're discussing them. Sometimes I feel like a nasty fraction that, no matter how many times it is explained, just doesn't come out right. My friends give me partial credit for trying. I detest maps and would rather drive around on empty in the middle of the night before stopping to consult one. It's much more exciting to follow signs and instinct. I will never wear a watch either. You can only carry this logic and order principle so far. I suppose Calculus for the Life Sciences next year will try to apply order to my not-so­scientific life. But there comes a point when I am not overly concerned with where I am and what time it is. When the really important things in life are concerned-like clothes, money, and make-up--I'm already set. 


The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Friday's Staff Production Sports 
Peggy Crooks Rene Ferran 
Bryan Nowicki Etc. News Cris Ortiz Meredith McCullough Shonda Wilson Julie Barrett Jeannie Shin 
VIewpoint Lab Tech. 
Joe Moody Macy Hueckel 
CheryiMwn~se=r~-----------­
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Quayle brings medical aid to Baltics 
•TALLINN, Estonia-Vice President Dan Quayle launched a trip to the Baltic states today with a gift of emergency medical supplies for the Estonian govern­ment. Greeted at Tallinn airport by Health Minister Andres Ellamaa, Quayle said the United States had al­located $18 million in aid to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the 1992 budget. Quayle's two-day visit is the highest-ranking U.S. mission to the three Baltic states since they achieved independence from the Soviet Union in September. Red Cross trucks waited to unload 50,000 tons of medical supplies from a U.S. military C-141 supply plane as Quayle's Air Force 2 taxied up. Quayle said the United States also would supply Estonia with 100,000 tons of feed grain. Quayle's visit comes as the Baltic states wrestle with economic problems related to the collapse of trade relations with the former Soviet Union. 
NATIONAL 
v 
Cuomo sopporters wage write-in 
•CONCORD, N.H.-It happened 28 years ago, when a write-in effort propelled Republican Henry Cabot Lodge to a stunning victory in New Hampshire's first-in-the­nation presidential primary. Now, supporters of Mario Cuomo are staging a write-in campaign for the New York governor in hopes of seeing history repeated in the Feb. 18 primary. Polls show considerable support for Cuomo, even though he is not running. One survey had him in a virtual tie with former Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas at about 20 percent each. But few voters say they plan to pencil in Cuomo and most analysts are skeptical. For that matter, Cuomo himself was skeptical Thursday when asked 


OF INTEREST 
•A demonstration against an international paper company sponsored by the Democratic Socialists of America ND/SMC will be held today at noon outside the front of the Center for Continuing Education. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ February 6 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX .A. 261,976,402 228.87 u-0.08 -"::11-.-.._S&P COMPOSITE 
413.84 ..(} O.Dl DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3257.60 {} 15.21 PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD {)7 $0.60 to $355.60/oz. SILVER tt 2.5¢ to $4.198/oz. 

Friday, February 7, 1992 
FORECAST: 
Cloudy and colder 
today with a chance 
of light snow. Highs 
in the low 30s . 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Amsterdam  43  39  
Atlanta  60  44  
Bogota  72  45  
Boston  25  16  
Brussels  45  39  
Chicago  41  29  
Fargo  35  32  
Fairbanks  -04  -11  
Great Falls  46  18  
Honolulu  77  68  
Houston  63  36  
Johannesburg  88  61  
Kansas City  42  28  
London  54  48  
Los Angeles  60  56  
Miami Beach  74  65  
Mpls-St. Paul  36  33  
New York  37  23  
Paris  50  41  
San Diego  64  58  
Sao Paulo  77  75  
South Bend  35  25  
Tokyo  48  37  
Warsaw  36  32  
Washington, D.C.  42  26  


about the poll results. Cuomo also expressed doubt that such a write-in campaign could succeed but said he is flattered. Cuomo has neither endorsed the write-in effort nor done anything to stop it. 



CAMPUS 

Chemistry Professor Kohn receives honor 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-James 
Kohn, assistant chair and professor of chemical engineering at ND, has been named a Fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. Fellow status recognizes his out­standing contributions as an educator and researcher in high pressure thermodynamics, and is 


one of the highest honors bestowed on a chemical engineer. A Notre Dame graduate and faculty member for 35 years, Kohn has consulted and taught special courses for several organizations, including the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and Standard Oil of Indiana. 

Students brave the cold for charity 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Residents of Morrissey Hall will brave the cold tomorrow in a charity Polar Run for the Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp memorial scholarships. Participants will race around the Notre Dame campus wearing only shirts and shorts, according to Rich Carrigan. University President Father Edward Malloy will be the honorary starter for the race. The event is open to all Morrissey residents, and the $5 fee will go directly to the scholarships. Carrigan said organizers are hoping to raise between $750 and $1,000 for the memorial funds. 
•ot Interests are provided by The Observer for free, one-time events of general interest to the public. Deadline for Of Interests is 1 p.m. the day before publication. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1812: Author Charles Dickens was born in Portsmouth, England. 

• 
In 1904: A fire began in Baltimore that raged for about 30 hours and destroyed more than 1 ,500 buildings. 

• 
In 1964: Thousands of screaming fans welcomed the Beatles at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport as the Fab Four began their first U.S. tour. 

• 
In 1974: The island nation of Grenada won independence from Britain. 

• 
In 1983: Elizabeth H. Dole was sworn in as the first female secretary of transportation by the first woman to sit on the U.S. Supreme Court, Justice Sandra bay O'Connor. 

• 
One year ago: The Soviet Union's Communist Party agreed to 


----------~---------------------------------------­
• <o .. I. • • .• 



Video will highlight seniors' memories 
By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
Notre Dame's senior class is putting together its first ever class video of highlights from the past four years, including Junior Parents' Weekend footage, films from individual dorms and commencement moments, according to video committee member Katie Pamenter. 
Special events such as SYRs, athletics, An Tostal and dorm sponsored projects such as the Keenan Revue and Fisher Regatta, will be part of this video to be shown at the grad­uation dance May 15, said Pam enter. 
Since the committee also wants to include pieces of indi­vidual dorm life, they will be filming for a half an hour in each dorm Saturday, Feb. 7 and Sunday, February 8, said Pamenter. While they will be filming all seniors together first, the committee said they plan to continue on to individual rooms where Pamenter said she encourages seniors to wear costumes, hold signs, do a skit or anything else. 
Off-campus seniors are wel­come to return to their dorms for the video taping, according to Pamenter, but the committee will also be rtlming at individual off-campus homes on Saturday, Feb. 15 and Sunday, Feb. 16. 
"We wanted to give everyone a total opportunity to be in the video," she said. 
Seniors may also turn in pri­vate videos or photographs that they would like to have in­cluded in the film to the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune, Pamenter said. She assured that all items will be returned. 
The idea for the class video originated while working on last year's JPW slide show, ac­cording to Pamenter. Senior Class President Jennifer Switzer and Secretary Jill Beth Hayes are also involved in the project. 
Much of the material used in the video will be taken from "The Year in Review" films made by Emil Hofman, former Dean of Freshman Year of Studies, Pamenter said. They will also use highlights from the videos taken by the An Tostal Committee, she added. 
Pamenter expects the final version of the video, including the individual dorm clips, se­nior week and commencement to be completed by early sum­mer. Orders for the video will be taken during commence­ment. 
The Observer 
page3 


Sophomore Herbie Calves mails home some Valentine's Day gifts he purchased from senior Amy Rynell at the Country Harvester. The Country Harvester, a gift shop located in the basement of LaFortune, provides U.P.S. shipping, as well. 
DIAL 27-ROSES 
FOR VALENTINE FLOWERS-CUT ROSES-BONSAI PLANTS 
ROSELAND FRUIT AND GARDEN CENTER-(ACROSS FROM RANDAllS INN) 
27-ROSES OR 277-6737 OR 272-7760 
YOU ARE OFFERID A $2.00 DISCOUNT ON THE PURCHASE OF A DOZEN ROSES, IF AND ONLY IF, WHEN YOU ORDER YOUR ROSES YOU TELL US HOW MANY LEITERS ARE IN THE PHRASE, "THE FlGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME"! 
VISA WE DELIVER 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 

I 
Here'sYour Chance I To Educate 
Here's your chance to educate your skin-without laying out a penny. Just bring a copy of this ad to the Clinique counter ... have a fast, free skin analysis on the famous Clinique Computer ... and a 3-step, 3-product starter set is ~ours as long as sum~lies last. 

Allergy Tested 
Available at University Park Mall, South Bend. IOOo/o Fragrance Free 


--~--~---­
............--------------------------~--~----------------------------------------------------­
page 4 
Swim team bus crash investigation continues 
By DAVID KINNEY to again confer with them, ana­lyze the data they have
Associate News Editor 
collected and make a decision
The investigation into the 
as to what. if any, action." 

crash of the bus carrying the Barnes said that at the earli­Notre Dame women's swim est, their inquiry into the acci­team Jan. 24 continues, accord­dent will not be complete untiling to Michael Barnes, St. 
the first part of next week, andJoseph County prosecuting at­he will make no other commenttorney. 
until that time.

Barnes said that his office 
National Transportation
conferred with Indiana State 
Safety Board investigators havePolice investigators, and they 
already ruled out problems
Mcontinue to gather facts and with the bus' steering, brakeinformation," said Barnes. 
and other systems, according to MWhen their investigation is 1st Sgt. Mike Swallow of the
complete," Barnes said in a 
state police.

statement Monday. Mwe expect 
as a student volunteer, you 
must have a Tax course, usually
Taxes 
taken by accounting majors. Milani said that "this is really one of the few programs where 
continued from page 1 
two, where CPAs will be avail­students get to apply classroom able. 
work to the real world." The 
The student volunteers form 
students efforts are also 
two MSWAT" teams, that is, 
Mmoving in the direction that 
Students Working At Taxation. Monk has been emphasizing: They learn their income, mari­students get "a different look on 6-15). The program will be set Milani explained that "the first students in contact with South tal status, children and prob­what it means to be low in­up in the CSC's Coffeehouse on group is responsible for the Bend residents in a lems." come," Milani added. Wednesdays from 2:30-5 p.m.
verySaturday services in Plymouth. realistic setting," Milani said. Participants are required to The Tax Assistance Program to help Notre Dame students The second group goes to peo­Student volunteers receive write a reflection paper at the begins on Feb. 8 and will con­and faculty with their questions ple who are unable to attend one academic credit for their conclusion of the program. and tinue through April 15 (with the and returns. the program centers, such as efforts, though "their work is Milani said that "almost every exception of spring break, Mar. nursing homes and Goodwill paper begins with 'I never real-
worth a lot more than that one 
industries, and by specific re­credit, " Milani said. "The stu­ized what it was like to live on ••••••••••••••••••••••••••
quests, they will visit hospitals $10,000 a year.'" "The volun­
dents really climb into some­
and private homes." one's life in a very real way. teers learn that the poor are a 
.. NICOLE•s NAKED!
In order to enter the program working poor," and that the 
education," the report stated. alumni, the majority had an ex­
GET DRESSED.
The committee's major rec­perience in undergraduate edu­
Report 
ommendation was that the uni­cation. They don't want to trade 
1r•s YOUR 21ST!
versity increase the size of the one iota of that overwhelming
continued from page 1 
undergraduate teaching faculty. experience for research." are shocked by the size of their This would alleviate many The recommendations and 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY.. 
classes, Stohr said. Even 300 problems, especially that of de­solutions provided by the stu­
Love, Cathy, 

and 400-level classes have high creasing student-faculty inter­dent committee were developed numbers, as many professors action. to ensure that this trade-off 
Beth,

Because of larger classes, would not occur. to research than to teaching. students have few opportunities Members of the Board of 
are devoting more of their time 
Mary Ellen,

According to the report, pro­to interact with their profes­Trustees responded positively to fessors do not have as much in­sors. Stohr said such interaction the report. According to one 
Shannon,

centive to teach as they have to is "one of the most valuable member, it is "absolutely top perform research, due in large aspects of education" because it drawer. It brings out true con­
Amy, 

part to a tenure process which is a "key element in making cerns in a fair manner, and it 

Nicole

rewards excellence in research. students excited about provides solutions." 
education." is a "lack of infrastructure to Members of the Board of promote, coordinate and im­
Furthermore, Stohr said there 
Trustees agreed with student prove teaching." committee members who said The committee recommended 
that interaction helped foster that the university establish a the educational ideals of a 

WEEKEND 
Catholic university. One mem­need, a vice-president for ber spoke of the need for a Undergraduate Studies. This 
position which would fulfill this 
"midcourse re-adjustment" in 
WHEELS
order to reassess the needs for the "maintenance and im­undergraduate education.
person would be responsible for 
ROUTE MAP

According to another mem­ber, "Of the 94,000 Notre Dame 
provement of undergraduate 

WEEKEND WHEELS offers~ and ~ transportation from select off-campus locations 
every Friday and Saturday night, with the exception of breaks and finals week, from 12:00 
midnight to 3:00 a.m. The bus runs as follows: 
1) Campus View Apartments \South entrance only on Willis): I2:00 I2:30 I :00 I :30 2:00 2:30 
2) Turtle Creek (Comer of Vaness behind Video Watch): 12:02 I2:32 I:02 I:32 2:02 2:32 
3) The Linebacker Lounge (South Bend Ave. side): 12:04 I2:34 I:04 1:34 2:04 2:34 
4) Five Comers (Across from The Commons): I2:11 I2:41 l:II 1:4I 2:11 2:41 
5) Lafayette Square (Corner of Eddy and Cedar -North of complex): 12:I4 12:44 1:14 1:44 2:14 2:44 
6) Club 23 (Notre Dame Ave. side): 12:18 12:48 1:1~ 1:48 2:18 2:48 
7) Main Circle (Drop off only): 12:21 12:51 1:21 1:51 2:21 2:51 
8) Library Circle (Drop off only): 12:23 12:53 1:23 1:53 2:23 2:53 
You must show Notre Dame or St. Mary's I.D *Sponsored by Hall Presidents' Council* 

The Observer/ Adriana Rodriguez 
Getting prepared 
Fisher sophomores, Dave Coleman and Herbie Calves, left to right, do some research in preparation for the upcoming Iceberg Debates. 
GSU raises child care proposal 
By TRAVIS SMITH News Writer 
The Quality of Life Committee of the Graduate Student Union (GSU) went before the Board of Trustees yesterday with a pro­posal concerning the child care needs of ND/SMC faculty and students. 
In the GSU's proposal, a rec­ommendation was given to "initiate negotiations with the Board of Directors at the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) with the intent to establish a second ECDC facility on the Notre Dame campus." 
The GSU stated that this rec­ommendation was based on the complaints of fa~ulty and stu­dents, survey results, as well as the ESCD waiting list. 
According to the GSU's report, "43. 7 percent of graduate students with families have missed school due to child care provider's illness or unavail­ability." In addition, there are six scholarship awards for graduate students' children that are presently unused. 
A survey given by GSU found that 44 families currently need child care and that if an on-site child care center was present, 49 families would use it. 
The ESDC serves 153 students annually with 40-50 new openings each year due to attri­tion. As of now, 170 families are 

March of Dimes 
illllilliiBIRTH-·DEFECTS FOUNDATION-illlil 
1992 ICEBERG DEBATES 
·.AFFIRMATIVE Grace A Fisher 
on their waiting/mailing list. Only 20 children of graduate students are being served while 39 are on the waiting/mailing list. The GSU reported that with this limited space, the ESCD has been eliminated as an observation point for undergraduate child psychology class. 
The Board of Trustees is meeting today in its entirety to further discuss this matter and the possible addition of another day care center. 

~~ 
~~U A l.L
•• n 
~page·s 

Kitty Cat case suggests civil rights endangered 
By NICOLE MCGRATH News Writer 
While the United States prides itself on maintaining equal rights for all citizens, current trends have pointed towards a dominant government chipping away at such rights, said South Bend attorney, Charlie Asher in a lecture at Saint Mary's last night. 
Facing a struggling economy, increasing violence and other domestic difficulties, the American public has allowed the government to gain more influence over issues that were once considered private mat­ters, according to Asher. 
"I sense a deterioration in our collective commitment to leave others alone", he said. Asher, who initially defended Indiana's Kitty Cat lounge's right to provide entertainment, said he sees this case as an example of this disturbing trend. 
The case gained national at­tention in 1991 when the Kitty Cat lounge defended its right to have nude dancers. According to Asher, the lounge was charged with public indecency. 
He says the case was de­fended on two premises: the nude dancers were a form of entertainment which should en­joy first amendment protection and nudity alone should not be enough to remove this type of entertainment. 
When Asher defended the case in the court of appeals, he won the case. The case was ap­pealed again. In January 1991, the case was brought up to the Supreme Court, said Asher. At this time Bruce Ennis took over defending the lounge's case. 
The case lost in the summer of that year. According to Asher, the majority of judges agreed with the initial defense but said Indiana could prohibit "the last bit of nudity." Suggestions of g­strings and pasties were offered. 
"Why are we so concerned about what is going on at the Kitty Cat lounge?" asked Asher. 
Chinese -American 
Restau~ant & 
Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine 

& Restaurant open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 
Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(next to Randall's Inn) 
Voted Best Oriental Restaurant in Michiana by 
Michiana NoiV 

He said that the American pub­lic has become less tolerant of people whose choices do not re­flect the majority's attitude. 
"Government should not be in the business of conducting de­cency," said Asher. The cure for bad speech is more free speech, he said. " I see more private agendas wanting the govern­ment to step in more on their behalf." 
Asher says that the test for Americans is allowing free speech to be very offensive to some interest groups. 
Free speech is only one area that the government seems to be exercising more control over, Asher said. According to him, the lounge case reflects one of many cases which have been reviewed by a more con­servative court than in the past. 
If the United States allows the government to gain more control of these areas, such as health care or abortion, there is a risk that the end could lead to totalitarianism here, Asher said. 
The United States is 3.8 tril­lion dollars in debt and the government is far from balanc­ing the budget, according to Asher. With the government having a significant amount of control over businesses, Asher believes that pure economics might be the way back to bal­ancing the budget. 
"People who have not been born yet are going to be paying for the orgy we have been hav­ing", said Asher. 
The United States is in a pe­riod of searching for a new na­tional identity, according to Asher. " We do not have Russia to defme us anymore ... the new trend is Japan-bashing.", said Asher. But in this search, we are not going to prevent prob­lems like prostitution or loss of family values by censorship, he said. 
This lecture, titled "The Kitty Cat Lounge Case," was pre­sented by the Saint Mary's Political Science Club at Saint Mary's Haggar Center. 
Please Recycle The Observer -Thank You!!l! 

P-......................----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 
IEcUAITY BEAT 
Sunday, Feb. 2 
1:00 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his locked bicycle from the Lafortune Student Center. 

5:00 p.m. Two Badin Hall residents reported they noticed a suspicious person at the Sacred Heart Church. Notre Dame Security/Pollee investigated the incident but could not find the suspect. 
10:25 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket and wallet from a locker In the Rockne Memorial Building. The locker was not secured at the time of the theft. 
Monday, Feb. 3 

7:03 a.m. A University employee reported vandalism to a Food Services truck that was parked at North Dining Hall. 
8:36 a.m. A University employee reported vandalism to a window in Haggar Hall. 
12:30 p.m. A University faculty member reported she lost her parking hang tag. 
1:11 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported he lost his parking decal. 
10:30 p.m. An off campus student reported the theft of her unattended watch from O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
11:35 p.m. A Notre Dame Security/Pollee Officer transported an Injured University faculty member from Galvin Life Science Building to St. Joseph's Emergency Room. 
Tuesday,Feb.4 

10:00 a.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of his parking hang tag from his unlocked vehicle. The theft occurred on February 3, 1992. 
12:53 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of her gate card from her locked vehicle. The theft occurred at the employee's home address In South Bend. 
3:18 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident was caught shoplifting in the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
7:23 p.m. A parking services employee reported larceny from a vehicle in the B·3 parking lot. Notre Dame Security/Police investigated the incident and recovered the stolen property. The accused is a juvenilia and was released to his parents until further questioning. 
7:35 p.m. Notre Dame Security/Police and Fire Department treated an injured Elkhart man at the JACC ice rink and assisted in transporting the victim to St. Joseph's Medical Center. 
Wednesday, Feb.5 

2:26 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of various items from an office in Nlewland Science Hall. 
2:40 p.m. A University faculty member reported the theft of her parking decal from her unlocked ve· hicle that was parked in the BOt lac· ully lot. 
3:00 p.m. A University employee backed a University vehicle into an air conditioning unit at the Administration Building. No injuries were reported. 
4:57 p.m. A P.E. resident reported she lost her detex card. 
5:30 p.m. A University employee reported she noticed two suspicious persons In O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Special to The Observer 

Winners of the Notre Dame Sesquicentennial Year Poetry Contest have been announced by the University's English de­partment. The contest's winner, for the poem "Walker Mountain," is John Engels, a 1952 alumnus. Two others received judges' special citations: Heather Eileen O'Shea, for the poem "The Ladies on Letticoe," and Michael Barrett, for the poem "Buildings." Three members of the English department's graduate creative writing program, Sonia Gernes, John Matthias and William O'Rourke, selected the winning poems from more than one hundred entries. 
The contest, sponsored by the Sesquicentennial Year and ad­ministered by the English de­partment, was open to alumni of the University, current stu­dents and staff, and present and former faculty members. Engels served four years in the Navy, studied Anglo-Irish literature at University College, Dublin, and received his M.F.A. at the University of Iowa in 1957. A member of the English de­partment at St. Michael's College in Colchester, Vt. since 1962, Engels is the author of writing texts, scholarly and critical studies of William Carlos Williams and seven vol­umes of poetry. A new volume is scheduled to be published this year. Engels became a Pulitzer Prize 
lisa, Just Remember: "Naughty Girls Need Love Too!" Have a Bittersweet Birthday! Love, The Girls 
The Observer 
Friday, February 7, 1992 

Professor examines literary 'canon' 
By EMILY HAGE News Writer 

Addressing the questions of how literature should be taught in America's universities today and which works should be chosen, Eva Brann, Dean of Studies at St. John's College, Annapolis, spoke to Notre Dame students yesterday in a lecture titled, "For the Canon of Western Tradition." 
Drawing from her literary knowledge and 35 years of teaching experience, she said students should be allowed to explore literature, free from teachers' preconceptions. Even supplying students with an au­thor's biography is "intellectually debilitating," she said. 
She explained, "In young readers especially, suspicion should surely be allowed to arise, but it should not be pre­induced." 
Confident in students' inter­pretive abilities, Brann recom­mended "a minimum hypothe­sis; it gives the teacher least control over the student's un­derstanding and to the student the greatest responsibility." 
Stressing the teacher's equality with the students, Brann defined the teacher's role as that of a "tutor," "protector," and not a "professor." 
Brann suggested an approach "with the minimum of pomp and circumstance, directly, im­mediately, the sooner the bet­ter." 
Books that Brann considers worthy to be taught in America's universities are those of the "canon," which she de­fined as "a list of books held in high, even reverent, regard by a stable community of readers." Brann claimed, "As in individu­als, so in tradition, the passage of time is needed to confirm ex­cellence." 
Brann specifically addressed gender and race in literature. Concerning the role of gender in literature, she said, "Most of the canon is indeed written by men, many are about men, but few are written for men." She excused some author's incorrect opinions about women's roles as unimportant to their theses. 
Emphasis on race is "short­sighted" according to Brann. "Color blindness is not a politi­cally correct principle these days, but it is both the most principled and the most advan­tageous way of reading." 
Defending her Western em­phasis, she claimed that the world is "universally western­ized" and that "in this univer­salist tradition that there arises the notion of multiculturalism." 
Brann defined "a good edu­cation" as "zest for all books and allegiance to a few." 
Alumnus selected winner of ND poetry contest 
finalist for "Weather-Fear: New and Selected Poets, 1968-1982, and he received a National Poetry Series award for "Cardinals in the Ice Age." Widely anthologized, his work has earned him two Pushcart Prizes, as well as fellowships and residencies from the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference, the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts, the Tyrone Guthrie Center and the Rockefeller Foundation. Barrett is a doctoral student in the writing program of the University of Illinois at Chicago, editor of the Chicago magazine "Wire" and currently working 
Dally 4:30 7:00 9:15 Sat/Sun 1:30 4:30 7:00 9:15 

HELD OVER ! lAS T 
WEEKI 
MY GIRL 
Dally 5:00 7:30 9:45 Sat/Sun 1:00 3:00 5:00 7:30 9:45 

on a poetry collection titled "Babylons and Other Poems." O'Shea is enrolled in the writing program at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque and is finishing a collection of poems called "Walking Home the Long Way." 
The winners will read their works Feb. 19 at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library audito­rium. There will be a panel discus­sion, "Notre Dame Poets," fea­turing Engels, Gernes, Matthias, Ernest Sandeen and James Walton, associate professor of English, on Feb. 18 at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library lounge. 
$3.501--........ 
All Shows 
Before 6 pm 

FREEJICII 
Alex Furlong ~ 
died 

today. ~U 
Dally 4:45 7:15 9'.30 Sat/Sun 2:00 4:45 7:15 9:30 



page 7 

Scholastic celebrates 125th year of operation 
By DANA ANDERSON 
News Writer 
Former editors and writers of Scholastic magazine will gather today through Sunday to celebrate the magazine's 125th year of publication with panel discussions, tours and social gatherings. 
Nearly 100 alumni are ex­pected to return to campus for this celebration, according to Frank Lipo, one of the organiz­ers of the event. A variety of careers will be represented, in­cluding business people, artists, an Ohio Supreme Court justice, a South American archbishop and a parole agent, Lipo said. 
"As was expected, many re­spondents pursued careers as journalists after graduation," Lipo added. Many EJven credited Scholastic for its role in their careers. 
Besides spending time shar­ing their memories, the group will also participate in two panel discussions and a lecture on Saturday. The first discus­sion, titled "The Press and the Presidency," will start at 9 a.m. in The Center for Continuing Education (CCE). 
Noted members of the panel include Robert Schmuhl, acting chair of American studies at Notre Dame, Thomas Betlag, a '66 NO graduate and producer of ABC's Nightline television program, and John Twohey, an editor of the Chicago Tribune, who is also a '66 NO alumnus. 
Panelists for the second dis­cussion, "Student Journalism at Notre Dame," starting at 10:30 
a.m. in the CCE, include the current editors of both The Observer and Scholastic magazine, representatives from various student organizations and Jack Powers, a '52 NO grad and former editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
"It should be really interest­ing to take part in the student journalism discussion, espe­cially to see how the relation­ship between the student press and the administration has changed over the years," said Scholastic Editor Ian Mitchell, who will be a member of one of the panels. 
Mathew Storin, a '64 gradu­ate and executive editor of the New York Daily News, will lec­ture on the "American Media in the Coming Decade" Saturday at 4 p.m. in the CCE. The lec­ture and discussions will be open to members of the Notre Dame community. 
Powers will also serve as master of ceremonies at a Saturday evening dinner at which University President Father Edward Malloy will speak to the alumni. Before de­parting from campus, alumni will celebrate Mass at 9:30 a.m. in the Stanford-Keenan chapel presided by Father David Schlaver, editor and publisher of the Ave Maria Press. 
The Scholastic was initially founded at Notre Dame on Sept. 7, 1867, when Father Gillespie, editor of the Ave Maria at the time, sent it out as an eight­page bulletin of campus activities tacked onto the Ave Maria, then sent to parents of students. Today, it has grown to a weekly 28-page magazine that is produced by students on campus.­
In addition to celebrating their anniversary with a Scholastic reunion, the staff has pulled old articles from past years and featured them in this year's magazines as a way of presenting NO history to their readers. This week's edition is devoted to the anniversary, with several articles about Scholastic's 125 years of history. 
"After going through back is­sues, it should be fun to actu­ally meet some of the people behind the bylines at the re­union," Mitchel said. 

1 Just say no to drugs ! 1 
GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA 
Come have the best summer of your life. Enjoy the invigorating, challenging experience of living in the awesome Rocky Mountains. 
St. Mary's Lodge and Resort, Glaicer Park's finest, now hiring for the 1992 summer season. Come see us on campus at the Career Placement Services, February 10th and 11th. 
Schedule an interview through your Career Placement Services now. Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime. 
What: COLLEGE MENS INDOOR SOCCER Where: South Bend Turners Indoor 53666 Ironwood Road (North of Douglas) 
When: Mondays and Wednesdays Late Night (10 PM-1:30AM) Signup February 7 through February 11th 
Season Starts Wednesday February 12th REDUCED COST IS $300.00/TEAM FOR 7 GAMES AND TOURNAMENT! FOR MORE INFO, CALL 272-5061 AFTER 6:00PM 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, February 7, 1992 
..Ib_-e -0~~.~-~~e.,..__ 
---. --~~.1..-=-Y~ .a.-. -­
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Usa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ..............•.....•.• Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor ...............•.. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••...•....... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ......••.••.••••••.•John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL 

Take a chance, vote Smith/Goodwin 
Students at Notre Dame have slim pickings this year for the positions of Student Body President and Vice President. Essentially there are four choices: the odd couple, the uptight bureaucrats, the establishment or the outsiders. 
Regarding the ticket of Rich Delevan and Joe Wilson, we believe Wilson appeared committed, convincing and sincere at the debate Wednesday. Delevan, however, has exhibited a public abrasiveness and overt displays of temper-both of which are hard to overlook. We doubt that this ticket will be able to work together effectively and believe Delevan's faults would overshadow Wilson's strengths. 
The ticket of David Certo and Matt Bomberger was stiff and unimpressive when presenting their platform of "real promises, real results" at the debate. For all of their eloquent speech, they gave the student body nothing to remember except their empty rhetoric and slogans. 
Greg Butrus and Molly O'Neill are experienced and knowledgeable in the workings of student government and raised the standard campaign issues. While they appear to be strong favorites based on their experience, they fail to offer anything different from candidates elected in previous years. 
Among these mediocre tickets, George Smith and Michael Goodwin proved they are not a joke with their desire for change and willingness to challenge the status quo. While they rnay be relatively unknown and some may doubt their sincerity, Smith and Goodwin are a refreshing break from the repetitive droning of the student government types. 
Unlike the other candidates, Smith and Goodwin didn't offer the usual listing of proposals they would enact if elected. Instead of promising everything and delivering nothing, Smith and Goodwin offer a new attitude-the possibility of a student government not afraid to tackle controversial campus issues like homosexuality, minority concerns and co-educational housing. 
If you want the same student government you've had for years, we suggest you vote for Butrus and O'Neill-at least you'll know what ~ou'll be getting. But change is needed in Notre Dames student government and the ticket of George Smith and Michael Goodwin just might be the answer. We suggest you take a risk and vote for the outsiders. You have nothing to lose. 
Voting 

The election for student body president and vice president will take place on February 10. If no ticket receives a majority in the initial balloting, a runoff election will be held on February 12. 
All on-campus students can vote in their residence halls between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. 
OfT-campus voting will take place in LaFortune Student Center, the Hesburgh Memorial Library and both dining halls. 
111\A):.IN(,.. ST\JDEN"T"S MAJTER,7/ NAH, J\JST MAkJNCr STv DENTS MAD·b~. 

C.ON bOMS. SAJ:"ETY. 6RtN6-11116­IT AL-L rOCYET1-4£R, 
Dear Readers: . 
We've held your letters for a day to focus on the upcoming student body presidential elections. Here you will find a profile of each candidate and a statement for the respective tickets. Also, you'll see the endorsement of The Observer's Editorial Board for president and vice president appearing to the left. 
Here's the menu. Choose a dish. Just remember you'll be digesting it for a year. 
Joe Moody 
Viewpoint Editor 


Smith/Goodwin Profile 
. Name: George Smith Residence: St. Ed's Hall Major: Biology 

Michael Goodwin and George Smith 
Statement 
"A little rebellion now and then is a good thing. " -Thomas Jefferson 
We're running on the premise that the students have the right to the best possible education that Notre Dame can provide, both in and out of the class­room, (hey, we should put this stuff on a poster, or something), and that it's the Student Government's privilege and duty to represent the students' interests in pursuit of that goal. 
We'll address this right by pushing for increased student input in administrative deci­sions. and by increasing student understanding of campus and global problems such as sex­ism, racism, homophobia, the environment, etc. 
We won't bore you with our resumes, we'll just address the issues. When you get a chance, get out your trusty copy of du Lac. (You can find it, can't you?) Reread the section entitled "Rights, Responsibilities, and Policies." You won't find a single right. 
That's because we have none. One of our main goals would be to formulate a student bill of rights. This bill of rights would include rights to freedom of expression, privacy, equality, and information about admin­istrative decisions, including the University's budget. 
We will also press the ad­ministration to at least include "sexual orientation" in the Uni­versity's nondiscrimination pol­icy. 
Another main goal is coresi­dential housing. It is no secret that female-male relations on this campus are strained. While co-ed housing wouldn't com­pletely solve the problem, it would be an essential step to­ward improvement. 
These improved relations would decrease date rape. Although it has been recommended by numerous task forces and referendums, Notre Dame remains one of the few campuses in the nation still without co-ed housing. 
This year, when the adminis­tration was presented with the perfect opportunity to begin co­ed housing, it evicted the resi­dents of Pangborn in an iron­fisted move, and offered no ex­planations. In the future we will not stand for any such ludi­crous actions. 
Additionally, we believe the Honor Code and Alcohol Policy should be revised or aban­doned. Most students do not agree with the Honor Code's requirement to turn in fellow students. 
Furthermore, the University does not adequately educate students and faculty about the Honor Code. Violations take place regularly, mocking the very concept of honor. 
The Alcohol Policy does NOT "promote responsible drink­ing." Essentially, the policy brands drinking as something to be done only when hidden from the public eye. Arbitrary enforcement further confuses the students. 
Wealthy alumni buy us 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Chairman of Student's for Environmental Action's Earth Day Committee, St. Mary's Ireland Program, Pax Christi, Band 
Name: Michael Goodwin 
Residence: Off-campus 
Major: English 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: St. Mary's Ire­land Program, WVFI DJ 
Three Major Goals for the Upcoming Year: 
1) A louder, more unified and more demanding voice for the student body in the governing of the University through dia­logue and action 
2) A student bill of rights 
3) Improved female-male re­lations through co-.residential housing 
exemptions from "no open containers" a few Saturdays each fall, and there will be drinking next weekend at JPW. If the administration wants us to drink maturely, treat us ma­turely. 
Also, we need flexible meal plans for both on-and off­campus students. Few students eat twenty-one meals a week in the dining halls. Yet on-campus students are charged dearly for all of them. 
Ideally, we'd like to see a system in which students use meal cards at the dining halls, the Huddle, and off-campus eating establishments to be charged directly to their ac­counts. Sounds impossible? Ask the students at Duke. 
We cannot promise these changes will be made if we are elected. In reality, no one can. Anyone who does is a liar. But we do have the dedication and determination to address these real issues. 
We will fight for these and all issues important to the student body. If we are denied by the administration, we will demand reasons. If their reasons are insufficient, we will NOT accept "no" as an answer. 

1992 STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS 
Friday, February 7, 1992 page 9 
Certo/Bomberger 

David Certo and Matthew Bomberger 
Statement 
"Real promises, real results" sums up what we stand for. Our student government will be led by a team of efficient, qualified, and determined students. 
We won't make rash promises we can't keep. 
The student body president cannot change the academic calendar, set four years in advance, to fulfill a campaign pledge. 
Student body presidents 
cannot make classes smaller, nor can they create more money for financial aid. 
The president can, however, do a great deal. Students con­trol $400,000, which they can prioritize. We want to increase access to faculty through Stu­dent Government colloquia and hall forums, restarting the hall fellows programs that every dorm had at one time. 
Our student government will 

Delevan/Wilson 

We. Rich Delevan and Joe Wilson, want to open this with a question. Why is Student Gov­ernment so useless to most people? 
Some people say it's the sys­tem, that the power to change things lies in other hands. Some people think that there just aren't interesting or important issues out there. And so. a lot of folks this year are running against the system. We're not doing that-because what good is any system except for the people in it? The problem isn't student government, but the unwillingness to address impor­tant issues. 
The issues are out there. People are worried about safety, about date rape, about what place they have in a "research university." We have concrete proposals to deal with these issues-to form neighbor­hood watch programs with off­campus students and the South Bend Police, to increase the availability of SafeWalk, to never close its doors to any student. 

Matt and I will visit each dorm at least once a semester and will begin weekly columns and open discussions in student media. 
Students who normally would not join student govern­ment but are active in other ar­eas of campus life are just the kind we will seek out to help run our programs. 
Those who have experience in social concerns, advertising, campus media, student security, and other specialties will be given jobs in their areas and expected to choose qualified assistants. 
We will ask the University pressing questions about finances, class sizes, tenure re­quirements, and student rights, and we will use the Campus Life Council and the Board of Trustees reports to drive home our concerns. We will cooperate with the Faculty Senate to address our mutual concerns about the shortage or lack of advisors. 
All off-campus students will receive, at the beginning of the year, information on local or-
make the parking lots more se­cure. We want the University to commit to improving the amount of contact that students have with professors in the form of independent research or seminar classes-bringing the benefits of its commitment to a "research" university to every undergraduate. 
Most importantly, the issues which people find controversial must be addressed, not backed away from as too hot to handle. That is the point of electing student leaders in the first place. 
The mechanisms are there. Student government has the re­sources, most importantly the dollars, to make itself useful to every student. 
Weekend Wheels is a good example of a program, run by students, which is providing a valuable service for the money that each of us pays for a Student Activity Fee. 
The Campus Life Council has the power to move Student Affairs and force them to address student concerns, but it isn't used for critical issues such as recommending changes to duLac. 
Most importantly, the Student Government is the only legiti-
Profile 
Name: David J. Certo 
Residence: Alumni Hall 
Major: Government and The­ology with Hesburgh Concen­tration 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Student Senator, Grand Knight-ND Knights of Columbus, Senate Budget Committee, Student Crime Task Force, Campus Life Council. Senate Constitutions Committee, Iceberg Debate Captain (3x), Eagle Scout, WSND News Staff, Observer News Staff & Viewpoint Copy Editor, Dialogue Guest Columnist, Co­President-ND Model U.N. Club, Vice-President-ND Speech Team, SUB Ideas and Issues. 
Name: Matthew Bomberger Residence: Saint Ed's Hall Major: Government and 
dinances, crime prevention, and neighborhood watch groups, which can be formed by student government where necessary. 
Real promises, real results. 
Profile 
Name: Rich Delevan Residence: Flanner Hall Major: Government and 
Philosophy Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Planner Hall Co-President, Task Force on Bill of Rights, Student Government Legal Department, HPC Consti­tution/Charter Committee Member 
Name: Joe Wilson Residence: Grace Hall Major: Government Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Student Senator, Campus Life Council, Co-President BCAC, Presi­dential Task Force on Cultural Diversity 
mate voice of the student body-its first, best duty is to make itself heard. These are aspects of the power of Student Government to make itself useful to students, which have never been brought to their full potential. 
What Notre Dame needs, now more than ever, are competent 
Mechanical Engineering Year in School: Junior Experience: AnTostal Chair­
man, Co-President-ND Model 
U.N. Club, Club Coordination Council Representative, Hall Judicial Board Member, Tutor­Learning Resource Center, Hall Academic Commissioner, Advocate (Secretary) ND Knights of Columbus 
Three Major Goals 
l} Weekly reporting: We will make weekly reports in campus media on the progress and activities of our administration. 
2) Opening Student Govern­ment: We will not permit the "gagging§ of any student or student leader, nor will we ac­cept closed meetings. 
3) At the beginning of the year, we will mail to each off­campus student a packet of local ordinances, emergency numbers and information, crime prevention tips, and information on watch groups. 
We will ask tough questions of the University, build a student government with initiative, and guarantee constant updates of our work to the students. 
Three Major Goals 
1) Safety: Increased funding and support for safe trans­portation options off-campus (Weekend Wheels), neighborhood watch, pressure the University to realize date rape as the serious crime that it is, create a program of self defense seminars. 
2) Undergraduate education concerns: We will take an active role in pressuring ND's commitment to un­dergraduates. 
3) Make Student Government relevant: Becoming a fulcrum of constructive dialogue and debate concerning issues im­portant to the student body, bring together students and faculty from America's leading institutions to debate issues important to all college campuses. 
leaders of vision and integrity who will address the issues of the day as well as the longterm needs of the students who elect them. We need leaders who are willing to fulfill that potential. The issues are there. The tools are there. We will provide the leadership to put student gov­ernment to work. 
Butrus/O'Neill 

The first question people have asked us is "What makes Butrus/O'Neill different? What makes you better?" In answer­ing this question, we ask you to do two things: First, examine what we have accomplished, and second, examine what we propose. 
We have more experience working not only in Student Government, but also in dealing with the many aspects of uni­versity administration. We have been elected by our peers to hall and class offices, we have been appointed to serve on university committees, and among leaders, we have been chosen for leadership positions. 
So what do we propose? 
First, we have developed a sound specific plan to deal with off-campus crime in the five corners area. By offering pri­vate security for the sole pur­pose of student protection, we offer a practical solution which is both feasible and inexpen­sive. 

Second, we have researched a system which allows students to pay for food and services using their ID cards. This declining balance system is used at many other schools, and by expanding it to encompass even vending machines and laundry facilities, it will provide great convenience to students. 
Third, our proposal is to can­cel the last two scheduled class days, Thursday and Friday, be­fore finals week. This would clearly make finals week less stressful for students and would give all a fair chance to prepare. The ultimate authority over this proposal lies with Academic Council. We've spo­ken to members of Academic Council and its Executive Committee and they were very receptive to the idea. 
They agreed that this plan would not affect the length of the school year and could be put into effect quickly and with minimal red tape. The faculty members to whom we've spoken recognize that this is standard practice at many of the schools to which Notre Dame compares itself. 
We're presenting concrete plans which we can and will ac­complish. What we've offered 
Profile 
Name: Greg Butrus 
Residence: Stanford Hall 
Major: History 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Stanford Hall 
Co-president, Voting Member 
Student Senate, Board of 
Trustees Report on 
Undergraduate Education, 
Chairman -Task force on 
Crime, Board of Trustees 
Report on Sexuality, Freshman 
Class Council 
Name: Molly O'Neill 
Residence: Lewis Hall 
Major: Philosophy 
Year in School: Junior 
Experience: Class Treasurer, 
Member -Colloquy 2000, in this campaign is not every­thing we ever plan to do, but rather an example of the kinds of proposals you can expect from a Butrus/O'Neill adminis­tration-substantive, well thought out ideas and not just a lot of pie-in-the-sky, we've­heard-it-all before, pipe dreams. Candidates throw out pro­posals every year and more often than not they go nowhere. We have seen this happen too 
Freshman Class Council 
Three Major Goals 
1) Student life: A system to allow students to pay for services with a "campus card" rather than with cash. 
2) Academics: We will call on the administration to accept our plan of extending the reading period before final exams. Simply ending semester classes a few days earlier will make fmals week a much more manageable time for students. 
3) Crime: We believe the administration should adopt our proposal for a coordinated 
effort  between  Student  
Government  and  popular  
student  bars  to  provide  
security on weekend.  

often, and we made a decision to run a substantive campaign with reasonable, achievable goals. 
Some of you may still be uncertain. If that's the case, the best way to decide is to ask those who know us best-the people we've worked with in our halls and organizations. They are the best testament that we have the energy and experience to make things hap­pen. 

·.·.··· 


FEBRUARY 7-9 

weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC Oliver Syndrome, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. The T,..., Bridget's, 10 p.m. Jumlne Groo,., Club 23, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS "The Sleeping Belluty," O'Laughlln Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8 p.m. ..S.IMegnollaa," Library Auditorium, 8:10p.m. ChineN Golden Dragon Acrobats, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. 
saturday 
MUSIC 

Duke Tumatoe, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Way Paat Tense, Club 23, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 

Davia & Wingfield, O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's, 8p.m. "Steel Megnollaa," Library Auditorium, 8:10 p.m. 
Mr. Stanford Contest, Washington Hall, 7 p.m. 
sunday 
EVENTS "Steel Megnollaa," Library Auditorium, 2:10p.m. 
films 
FRIDAY "Boyz N the Hood," Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10 p.m. "Barton Fink," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 &9:45p.m. 
SATURDAY "Boyz N the Hood," Cushing Auditorium, 8 &10 p.m. "Barton Fink," Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 
Escape to 
limeless tale of ''The Sleeping Beauty' 
By AMY K. BENNETT Accent Writer 
W 
hen Peter I. Tchaikovsky began composing the score for the ballet, "The Sleeping Beauty," he was so filled with enthusiasm and pride that he predicted it to be one of his best works. 
One of the oldest ballets still performed, "The sleeping Beauty"will be performed by the Indianapolis Ballet Theater at 
8:00 p.m. on Friday, February 7 in the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
Tchaikovsky's score was commissioned in 1888 by Ivan Alexandrovitch Vsevolozhsky, the director of the Maryinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg. 
Vsevolozhsky reworked Charles Parrault's original tale to create the ballet's libretto. He omitted the gruesome details of Sleeping Beauty's marriage and her difficult relationship with the Prince's mother, and ended the ballet with the Wedding Scene. Vsevolozhsky also gave the characters their names: Sleeping Beauty became Aurora, and the Prince was named Desire. 
Marius Petipa was the chore­ographer of Vsevolozhsky's production, and he supplied 
Communication through the powe 
By ANNA MARIE TABOR Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
V 
ocalist Katherine Davis wants to make the earth move. Keyboardist Sidney James Wingfield wants to play "anything that's got guts." This dynamic duo is coming to Saint Mary's on Saturday night with a celebration of Chicago blues, rhythm and blues, gospel, and jazz guaranteed to get the audience on its feet. 
Davis and Wingfield have been doing quite a bit of touring on college campuses lately for black history month, an experience in music in which Davis treasures. "The students open up their hearts and minds to me, it's such a good feeling," she says. Davis stresses the value of communication through the power of music: "I would say it is very important that people today let music be strong in their lives." 
Davis herself comes from a music-influenced family. "Mama knew how to sing," Davis says emphatically. She belonged to a gospel group and would sing to her children, and all of them sang together. Her mother always wanted to travel, but her obligation to raising her family prevented her from doing so. Davis in commenting about who motivated her says, "Everything I am doing, she wanted to do." 
The list of things Davis has done and is doing is long. Davis has received critical acclaim for her roles as Bessie Smith and Ma Rainey in the Kuumba Theater's production of "In the Heart of the Blues." Her musical performances, spiced with a keen sense of showmanship, have landed her recent dates at a number of Chicago nightspots, including Andy's jazz club and Kingston Mines, and at the Blackstone and Westin hotels. 
Her shows appeal to all age 
Tchaikovsky with specific choreographic requirements for the score. Petipa's notes were said to have been deliberate and specific for dramatic intent, meter, and the instruments to be used for each musical phrase. 
Tchaikovsky began work on the score in October of 1888 and completed the last draft of orchestration in just over a year. 
The result of Tchaikovsky's and Petipa's collaboration was one of 
'Moving with command 
between old and new, 
classical and modern, 
the professional ballet 
company presented a 
challenging and artfully 
executed program' 
-Betsy Light 
the best loved full-length classical ballets in history. "The Sleeping Beauty" premiered in 1890 at the Maryinsky Theatre, and has since been restaged, redesigned, and rechoreographed countless times. Various musical interpolations have been interjected, many characters have been added or eliminated, but the traditional beauty of the ballet remains. 
The Indianapolis Ballet Theater, who will perform "The Sleeping Beauty," originated in 1973 as an outgrowth of the Civic Ballet Society of Indianapolis, which was founded in 1959. 
The IBT is under the direction of Artistic Director Dace Dindonis, who advanced from Assistant Artistic Director in the beginning of the 1988/89 season. 
Betsy Light of the Indianapolis Star said the following of the IBT's performance of "The Sleeping Beauty," "Moving with command between old and new, classical and modern, the professional ballet company presented a challenging and artfully executed program." 
The IBT adopted the roots of the twentieth century touring concept, patterning its style after that of the world renowned Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. The development and maintenance of a high quality touring company remains the mandate of the Indianapolis Ballet Theatre. According to the IBT's company profile, the repertoire is dedicated to keeping the classics alive in their truest form as well as utilizing contemporary and original works, which has resulted in a very unique and versatile company. 
Each season has been filled with a wide variety of guest musicians, 

groups with audience members dancing and singing along to everything from the jitterbug to the electric slide. "What I like to do is, I like audience participation. There's nothing like getting together and having a good time," she says. Davis describes performing as an exchange of energy between herself and the audience. All the components of her program-a musical evolution from blues to gospel to jazz to country to r &b-require energy and interest to relay her message of how the blues relates to her. "Blues is a melodic form with rhythm and with feeling so strong it's actually making the earth 
move." 

Born and raised in the Chicago projects, Davis was schooled in the gospel tradition. She grew up with Willie Dixon, and it was when his daughter Eleanor said Davis' "voice is for blues" that she decided to make a profession out of singing. 
In addition to the Rueben Lightfoote Gospel Ensemble, with whom she has recorded, Davis also has sung with Mother Meatchem and Gary Riley's and God's Own. Her additional credits include the 1985 Montreal Jazz Festival, the 1986 and 1990 Chicago Blues Festivals, and the 1989 Richmond, Ind., Folk Festival. Her television and theatrical appearances include roles in the Victory Gardens Theatre production of "The Colored Museum" and ABC-TV's "Psychic Crime Busters." 
Wingfield "like(s) playing original music" best. He writes music and lyrics for contemporary r &b, slow love songs, rock, and religious, when he's not managing his career. Although he has written "about 20 good songs in the last three years," Wingfield hasn't been writing much lately. An album is on Wingfield's list of things to-do. 
The album, the gigs-Wingfield's career in general is managed by himself. "I'm my own boss in every way. No one tells me what to do, no one," he emphasizes. While he gets to call the shots, he says it requires a lot of discipline and demands. 
In addition to being autonomous, Wingfield is also a nonconformist. "I've never wanted to be traditional. I listen to them (traditionalists) and figure out what they're doing. Then I do it the way I like it," he explains. Wingfield has faced rejection as a result of his individual style but he 

page 11 

a weekend of fl 
• 
awakened 
lmposers, and choreographers, tcluding Claude BolliQg, Kyoko !lkezawa, Ben Vereen, Jose mon, David Ott, The Fort Wayne 1ilharmonic and The dianapolis Symphony Orchestra. In addition to the presentation of ; dance programs, the IBT is 
mmitted to the entire theatrical .perience of dance; sets, ·stumes, and lighting are sential to the IBT's perfor­!l.nces. AJI of these are created td built by the staff. Dance mpanies nationwide have nted and purchased the assis­tce of the IBT technical staff. ~he IBT has toured to over 55 ies in 1 7 states and Canada, aching an audience of over ,000 each touring season. rhe IBT's February 7th per­rmance of "The Sleeping 
auty" is sponsored by the dversity of Notre Dame Student don Board. Tickets are $14 for neral public admission, $12 for llior citizens and children under By FRED KROL and Ouiser Boudreaux played by Carolyn Daly , and $7 for Saint Mary's and Accent Writer complete the cast. Clairee, a wealthy radio ttre Dame students. station owner and Ouiser, an eccentric woman ;roup rates are available at the T his weekend the Library attached to her hairless dog provide the Laughlin Box Office at 284-4626 Auditorium will be transformed necessary comic relief. d the LaFortune Student Center into a beauty shop, complete with The six characters complement one another. 'Ormation Desk at 239-8128. shampoo bottles, hairspray and Each dishes out her own down-to-earth 
blow dryers. thoughts on food, men and life itself. Their rickets may be purchased in In their first major production, the Lewis ability to share secrets and openly criticize vanced at both the O'Laughlin Hall Players provide a delicious slice of one another testifies to the special 'x Office and LaFortune Student southern culture in their production of Robert relationship among them. nter Information Desk. Harling's "Steel Magnolias." Set in Louisiana Co-directed by Lewis residents Kathy Hipp 
at Truvy's Beauty Shop, the play reveals the and Cara Schaffer, "Steel Magnolias" mixes unique relationship among six women. laughter and sadness. Truvy captures this Noha El-Ganzouri and Suzanne Fodor lead combination of emotions best by declaring, the cast, playing the main characters M'Lynn "Laughter through tears is my favorite
ol music 
Eatenton and Shelby Eatenton, respectively. emotion." 
Against her mother's advice, Shelby, a While mourning the death of her daughteresn't take it personally, "You diabetic, decides to have a child after in the final scene, M'Lynn states, "Men are n continue to plot your own marrying a wealthy lawyer. The diabetes, supposed to be made of steel or something."
1rse." 
which eventually causes her kidneys to fail, In contrast, it is the women of this production makes the bond between mother and who are made of steel and who share an 
~ veteran session player, daughter even stronger. unbreakable spirit. >ducer and touring performer, 
Michelle Cano plays Truvy Jones, the owner ngfield 's studio work has of the shop. Living by the motto, "There's no Performances of "Steel Magnolias" will be :luded sessions with Son Seals, such thing as natural beauty," Truvy works · held at the Library Auditorium this Friday and ck Jagger, Luther Allison and diligently to enhance the beauty in Chinquapin Saturday evening at 8:10p.m. with a matinee f Twist and the Mellow Fellows. Parish. Megan Thomas is cast as Annelle performance this Sunday afternoon at 2:10 though he has been a Dupuy -DeSoto, a born-again Christian whose p.m. Tickets may be obtained at the LaFortune )fessional musician for about 25 naivete lends humor and warmth to the pro­information desk or at the door. Admission ars, it was in "'76 t• .t I really duction. price is $2 with proceeds going to benefit the 
t serious with the bluts circuit." Women's Care Center of South Bend. 
Clairee Belcher played by Dawn Overstreet 
.s recording portfolio includes tpearances on 11 U.S. and -ench releases. A flamboyant and aggressive ayer, Wingfield backed blues 
The Stanford "studs" are back 
titarist Allison for four years, comparisons naturally ensue. As if the title of the musical
By JENNIFER GUERIN In an effort to make this 
td worked with the late Big Accent Writer year's contest shorter than the "The show was originally group weren't enough to entice vist for some five years. "When last, the STUDS have decided to started as Stanford's answer to you, the competition itself be­limit the number of contestants 
th Luther, we spent quite a bit A nd you thought the the Keenan Revue," says gins at 7:30. Various skits from time in Europe, mostly in Keenan Revue was to five. Kempf and Donnino will Infante, but it has developed other Stanford residents, as ance," Wingfield says. He it.. be joined by freshmen Joel Link into something completely dif­well as a mock JPW slide show 
plains the difference between Watch out, Notre and Chris Peterson, and ferent. Mr. Stanford has grown and other surprises, will be nerican and European Dame-here comes sophomore Kevin Monahan. since it began in Stanford's performed between competi­diences is that Europeans are Mr. Stanford. This Saturday Pressure is on sophomores basement in 1986, but still tions. ery aware" that blues were night, the seventh annual Mr. Kempf and Monahan-for the remains a small scale activity rented by blacks. "In Europe, I Stanford contest comes to past four years, a sophomore comprised of fun-loving STUDS. "Everyone is welcome," says LS kind of like a god. They Washington Hall again, ready has captured first place. Emulating the Revue, a more Infante, "students, faculty, preciate the content, feeling, as ever to entertain its viewers. Contestants usually attempt to expensive and flamboyant pro­administration~xcept Student 
e more enthusiastic," he Last year, the STUDS of North impress the judging panel with duction now held at Saint Affairs." nembers. Quad treated their audience to humor rather than talent, Mary's College because of the 
everything from debatable although last year's show crowd it attracts, is not a con­.Yingfield recounts a Barry Manilow impersonations proved that the two can go cern of Mr. Stanford partici­rformance in southern France to raw musical talent on the hand in hand ... sometimes. pants. 
Lt "I'll treasure my whole life." piano and guitar. You may Judges, women from both Notre This contest focuses on humor was playing an acoustic piano remember Mike Donnino's Dame and Saint Mary's, will and fundraising, a successful ten the lights went out. death-defying acrobatic en­base their decisions on four combination. All proceeds, after daunted, Wingfield continued to deavors on that cold winter categories-talent, formal wear, expenses, go to the Logan Ly in the dark, while 200-300 night last February, or fresh­question and answer, and swim Center in South Bend, the orga­dience members began to light man Bill Kempf audaciously wear. The final category, says nization for which Notre Dame's Ltches and lighters. When the strutting his stuff in a swimsuit emcee Chris Infante, is intended own Digger Phelps is a nts came back on, he received a made of tinted blue saran wrap. "to show off what little beefcake spokesperson. Since production mding ovation-"They went There was absolutely no shame exists in this dorm." costs for Mr. Stanford are quite ts!" for these title-hungry Infante will host the contest low, residents proudly present a competitors. along with John Donohoe. large check to Logan Center 
Wingfield and Davis will grace Hold on to your seats, South Stanford co-president, and one each year. Laughlin Auditorium on Bend-both Donnino and Kempf of last year's competitors. After Tickets for the seventh annual turday, Feb 8 at 8 p.m. Tickets will return this year. They will last year's successful show, they Mr. Stanford contest are · the show are priced at $7 and battle for the coveted title are looking forward to drawing available at the Lafortune , and are on sale at the Saint awarded last year to sophomore a large audience to Washington Information Desk, or at the ary's box office in O'Laughlin. Chris Ford, whose licorice­Hall on Saturday. With door. Admission is $3. Music by 
n more information, call through-the-'tostrils trick truly Stanford's too-close-for-comfort Stanford's own band, [9/284-4626. tipped the SC< les in his favor. arch rivals, Keenan Hall, Wrecked'em, begins at 7 p.m. 



The Observer Friday, February 7, 1992
page 12 

·-Is Christianity about to become politically correct? 
Is Notre Dame, as a univer­sity, still a Catholic and Christian place? If it be so, let us pray to God to keep it so. If it be not so, let us pray to God to make it so. 
I don't c'are to waste time, asking whether Notre Dame·is losing its Catholic soul. For centuries, the Catholic Church has had answers that nobody wanted, because nobody knew what the questions were. 
Now that we see what the problems are like, Christianity could again be fashionable. If Notre Dame has finally reached its hour of greatness, it may not be because now we have enough money to recruit schol­ars, but because as an American university, we can be uniquely credible and creative as a think-tank of the Church. 
You have to understand that I am a rah, rah Catholic who be­lieves the Church has a future as the bridge over troubled wa­ters. If I were gifted like G.K. Chresterton or C.S. Lewis, I would love to write an update of the case for Christianity. Maybe God, if He's serious about making Notre Dame Number One, will send us such an apologist as His sesquicen­tennial gift. Could he inspire young Domers to tell the com­panies that they are interview­ing with that Christ is their hero? 
The least that you can say of Him is that He was a Jew at home with the Old Testament tradition. If He had not been a Jew, perhaps the fate of the Jews would have been easier down through the centuries. In every generation, Jews have gone on trial for claiming to be thP. l.ho"P.n PP.oniP. anrl for a.r.t-

Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
ing as though they believed they were that privileged. 
Christ went on trial for claiming to be the only-begotten Son. In His day, only the Chosen People at home with the monotheistic tradition could realize how scandalous it was for Jesus to claim kinship with the Master of the Universe. In judging Him guilty of blas­phemy, those Jews did the case for Christianity a favor; for this means that when He said, "Before Abraham was, I AM," the claim can't be written off as poetic license. 
I suspect that every time a Jew is put on trial by the anti­Semites, Christ goes on trial as their brother; all through World War II, we saw that Jews tend to have that kind of loyalty to one another. If this is true, then the Holocaust is part of Christ's on-going Passion; how could it be otherwise? In every pogrom, the sins of the fathers are visited onto the children, and Jews are punished as though they were part of the howling mob for whom Christ prayed: "Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they are doing." 
Isaiah wrote of the Jews col­lectively as the Suffering Servant of Yahweh, though Christians later transferred the imagery to Christ in His pas­sion. Has Christ not been the stumbling block which has caused Israel, as Yahweh's ser­vant, an unmitigated history of c::uff<>rinu? l:;t P<~nl indicates that the Jews will have a special place in the Kingdom. 
This must be because God, Who made everlasting covenants with the patriarches He met in the desert has promises to keep. "Late came I to love thee, 0 thou Beauty, both so ancient and so fresh, yea, late came I to love thee," wrote Saint Augustine. Maybe, if it is not offensive to suggest it-maybe, in the acknowledge­ment of their Messiah, the Jews have a destiny to be late-comers to the Supper of the Lamb. Maybe God, remaining faithful to the nation He fathered on Sinai, has glory to share with Israel that the Church has not dreamed of. How should mere goyim be prophetic enough to know how sacred history will turn out? 
The Creeds describe Jesus as true God and true Man. If we were to evangelize the campus, we'd be obliged to preach Him as true God and true Man, be­cause that's what the New Testament makes of Him. As Catholics at Notre Dame, do we dare to allow ourselves a mo­ment of pure faith when we trust the revelation that tells us that God so loved the world that He gave us His only-begotten Son? 
I meet pastoral Protestants who tell me the students don't understand what the good news of the Gospel is all about. Those pastors say: "The majority of students are reli ·ous illiterates, sincere in paying lip service to half truths that they are still trying on for size." 
I was fifteen when I accepted Christ as my personal Saviour. I fell away as a fundamentalist when I became a Catholic who had more to ask of the Lord than "What must I do to be saved?" Why did I think it was better to become a Catholic tban to remain a Protestant? I've never said it was better. But do you remember the mul­tiplication of the loaves and the fishes? A crowd of four or five thousand were fed that day; and the remnants left over filled twelve baskets. 
Once you start equating the Catholic Eucharist with the miraculous bread provided by Christ in the wilderness, it's not hard to start looking down on the Protestant sacrament of Communion, as one might have looked down, ever so slightly, on the crumbs left over from the feast. Maybe it sins against ecumenism to say so, but the Reformers, hating tradition, fiddled with the Catholic liturgy until they left it impoverished. How can it be considered bibli­cal to celebrate the Lord's sup­per with Welch's grape juice and cubes of Wonder Bread? 
Using the Catholic perspec­tive, on a clear day you can see forever, though sometimes at Catholic Notre Dame, the weltanschauungs seem more limited. Christian theology abounds in paradoxes, which is the reconciliation of opposites. Is Christ the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords? We shall know Him by the nailmarks in His hands. 
Other world religions claim that evil is an illusion, or they account for the existence of evil by admitting that some of the gods may be bad-assed. The Christ of the Gospels met evil headlong on the Cross. 
If human suffering is a prob­lem that causes Christians to doubt God, it should be remem­bered that it was the Lord's problem too, since He was the Man of sorrows acquainted with grief. Missionaries have told us that am many of the Third World people, struggling for survival, point to the crucifix as proof that Christ is on their side. "The rich and the powerful did that to Him," they say, "because He was poor, like us." 
As the Protestant pastors would be the first to tell you, the young 
Catholics of Notre Dame have an immense amount of good will. Even the mavericks, apparently on the outlook for stigmas they can use to beat the dogmas, fail to be consistently agnostic. They must recognize that in order to have a glitch­free universe, God would have to remain alone, willing inanimate things to stay perfect. 
But sharing His world with five billion creatures endowed with free will, He has to make allowances for waywardness that He would not have to make,if He were a mere puppet master playing with toys. 
When Notre Dame sends its graduates into the world, we should tell them "walk tall, young Christians, because 'You are the light of the world.'" If it's Christ's will that each of them be as a candle, shining like a good deed in a naughty world, we pray that He will keep them so, world without end. Amen. 


7th ANNUAL MR. STANFORD CONTEST FEB. BTB. 7:30 P.M. WASHINGTON BALL TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS II9 AND Z%3 FOR $3.00 PROFITS BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER TillS YEAR'S CONTESTANTS INCLUDE: 1. Mike Donnino 2. Bill Kempf 3. Kevin Monahan 4.Joel Link 5. Chris Petersom 1~~1 ·r~ -J ~ COME CHEER ON YOUR FAVORITE STUDS!  


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds 
Classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . --­
Emily, Jodi, and Jill,  ..... NAZZ '92 *"***  
NOTICES  LOST:  PLEASE! RED, HOODED, WITH  B & B Rooms for Parents Weekend Call 271-0989  Vote WILBUR AND GUS for SBP. This is Notre Dame, you  We are now calling your bluff, Come over to 227 today,  Campus Band festival coming in March. All  
GREEN LINING POLO JACKET.  haven't got anything better  and we'll see if you have the right  bands should register  
USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from ND 233-234211 0-5:30 M-Sun The Women's Care Center I Pregnancy help Center is holding a training session for volunteer counselors during the weekend of February 14,15, & 16 on the Notre Dame campus. Anyone interested should call the Center at 255-4595.  IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CRAIG X3533 Lost: Women's Gold Seiko watch. Somewhere between P.W. and Cushing on 2-6-92. Much sentimental value­Reward. Call Johanna at x2948. WANTED  FOR SALE macintosh plus, printer, &software. $600. 287-7928 Need any house PAINTING done? Experienced, quality painting at reasonable prices. Call Mark at 277-6578.  to do. Stop for a moment and think. Do you have any idea who the candidates for SBP really are? Of course not. So vote for your old friend Wilbur, Lord of the Apathetic. VOTE WILBUR WRITE IN IS RIGHT ON I  stuff! -cris and Rich (@ 4:30) HEY B.P. Are you tired of boring and sexually promiscous R.A's? SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­ now with Barb in Student Government 2nd floor LaFortune. ***** NAZZ '92 ***** Thought of the day: If three-ringed binders 'Speak in foreign tongues, who will clean the garage? IT'S A GIRDLE, IT'S OBSCENE, IT'S SMEGMAMANIII  
Student volunteers wanted to help raise money for local pregnancy help center. The Women's Care Center is holding its annual phone­a-then Feb.10-13 & Feb. 17-20 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. We could use your  CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE CALL 283-371 0 BY FEBRUARY 11.  Weider bench and weights, Hardly used, 5 months old. $45.00. call at 277-9354. FENDER GUITAR AMP: Tube  DOWNTOWN S.BROWN HEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEYI You must be old to want a quiet birthday in! Ruh roh! Happy B-Day-your roomies and S!  8373 The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans I  All those other candidates are darks. Vote for a cool rat and a kidney-shaped martian that gets chicks. Vote Wilbur and Gus for Student Body PrezNP.  
help any or all nights. If interested please call Michelle at 255-4595  need ride to PITT for JPW.will help w/ gas/loii.Tiffany X3861  amp, for practice/performing, 2 inputs (high/low gain), tone, vibrato, exc. cond. 271-0138  BUY SPRING BREAK TRIPS NOW to Bahamas, S. Padre, Cancun,  A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Panama City $99, Padre $199, Cancun from Chicago $499,  Top ten campaign promises of Wilbur and Gus: 1 0) We'll get the Pope here for An  
AVOID THE RUSH & LONG, LONG LINES. SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS TODAY. STOP IN THE OBSERVER OFFICE ANYTIME BETWEEN 8 AM-3:30PM DAILY.  ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE ROOM AND BOARD for part-time summer help with toddlers. Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428­1051.  TICKETS Need Mich. TICket x2546  Panama City, or Jamiaca From LISA at x4667. Trips are selling FAST! Don't be left out! I Shannon McCarthy,  Jamaica $399. Call Lance 271­1681 or Lisa 283-4667 or 1-800-638-6786. We've been helping to meet the needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual  Tostal. 9) One word: Velveeta! 8) Spelunker will start getting funny. (Well, we'll try) 7) If we don't win, that silly cartoon about Gus "budding" wil run every day for the next year!  
ATTENTION: SPRING BREAKERS  GOING TO CINCINATTI FOR JPW WEEKEND? I need a ride and will pay for gas! Call" Katie at x2659.  Need Mich-ND tix in a BIG way!  Only 2 more days 'til BIRTHDAY WEEK! Smile! Luv, Amy  students and their friends for almost 20 years. Write us with your questions or suggestions. CONFIDENTIALITY  6) Low-calorie and low-starch meal options for HPC members. 5) Less security on campus (we need a little excitement around  
INTERESTED IN BECOMING A CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE AND EARNING A FREE TRIP TO CANCUN, MEXICO OR A CRUISE TO THE BAHAMAS? LOOKING FOR ENERGETIC, SOCIAL PEOPLE WHO HAVE AN INTEREST IN SALES/MARKETING. LOOKS GREAT ON THE RESUME.  YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING BREAK IN JAMAICNCANCUN, FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL, AIR, TRANSFERS. SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­7710.  Derek X1374 orx1373 I Need 2 ND v. UM Basketball Tickets. 283-2067 ZACH NEEDS MICH TIXII! X 2374  JASMINE GROOVE FRIDAY AT CLUB 23 A "101 DAYS WAR CELEBRATION" Driving· to/through Oklahoma for Spring Break? Need ride,  GUARANTEED! GL!@/SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Monk: you protect abusive homosexuals and refuse the rights of healthy ones. Could you please  here). 4) Weekly nude photos of your favorite officer of the University to be published in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. 3) Big, strapping, hairy hunks will be hired to patrol the quads and distribute Jove. 2) "A beer in every fridge and a condom in every dresser"  
CONTACT LANCE @ 271-1681 STUDYING ABROAD NEXT FALL? NEED A PLACE FOR SPRING? I'm graduating in December. Take my spot in three bedroom apt. at Castle Point. Cheaper than the "other" places, but much nicer! Call Paul: 277-5329 ANNUAL PHON-A-THON benefits Woman's Care Center FEBRUARY 10-13 and FEBRUARY 17-20 from 6 to 9 pm each night. Develc:Jpment Office in the Admin. Bldg if interested, call Michelle at 255-4595 LOST/FOUND  Summer internships -Average earnings $4,000.00. University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus telephone directories, hires over 250 college students for their summer experience in advertising, sales and public relations selling yellow page advertising for your campus telephone directory. Positions also available in other university markets. Expense paid training program in Chapel Hill, N.C. Looking for enthusiastic, goal oriented students for challenging, well-paying summer job. Internships may be available. Interviews on campus Thursday, February 13th. Sign up at the Career Center, Hesburgh Library. DRIVING TO NYC FOR SPRING BREAK? Have room for two ND ladies willing to pay for gas? Call x2672 or x2648  HELP!! I need NO/UCLA B-ball Tixll Please call Lynne X2614 02/11 I NEED 2 UCLA B-BALL TIXI CALL BRET X1691 NEED TICKETS FOR NO VS MICHIGAN Call Karen-277-5183 I NEED 2 MICH TIX DAVE 1391 HELP-Desperately need 4 Mich Tix Brian at X1486 Need 4 Mich. B-ball tixs.  will help with gas/driving. Caii.Jon #1854 Dear Brendan, Would you cuddle with me? Love, Gumbo! Drumstick Waking Nose, I am the culprit. Leeks in the Night HEY BUTCHER!!!!! I! You might think I am going to tell you that Amanda P. loves you. Well, she doesn't, she hates you. -your mother  explain?-Michael garth brooks is an overrated drugstore cowboy. -Willie, Waylon, and the boys 7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD CONTEST. FEB 8TH. 7:30 P.M. WASHINGTON HALL TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS 119 AND 223 FOR $3.00. ALL PROCEEDS BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER. This years' contestants include: 1. Mike Donnino 2. Bill Kempf 3. Kevin Monahan 4. Joel Link 5. Chris Peterson COME CHEER ON YOUR FAVORITE STUDS II!  1) Garth Brooks! Listen to what the great poets are saying about Wilbur and Gus: I have a woody, And its filled to the brim with pus I'll hit you with it if you don't vote for Wilbur and Gus. -William Shakespeare Roses are red, Boogers are green, Wilbur eats cheese, IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN! -Robert Frost Vote for them! see class/page 14 EXPLORE THE PHYSICAL, BIOLOGICAL, & SOCIAL SCIENCES W'llh low-Cost Edualional Sdt""'e For IBM PCe & Compolilllo Compulers. Music & Gardening S-Also AVIIlable Send Sell-Add. Stamped Env lor Catalog to O.E D. ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING  
FOUND:  John 273-9165  michael -bologna sandwiches and  10306 E. LIVe Oak Ave., Arcadra CA 91007  
Orange bike in Nieuwland Hall last semester. Here's the catch-I'm not sure that it is not mine that was  Ride needed to Daytona area for spring break-Call Tamara X4700.  I PERSONAL  TOP TEN QUOTES from "Steel Magnolias"  beef jerky, that's what I've seen for 15 years -monk  ~~ loy Wolt Stilb  
stolen earlier-in the year. If you can prove that it's yours, call Doc @ 234-1 048 Found: scarf in niewland classroom Lost: hat, green and blue plaid  . FOR RENT I INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.IL.--------------1 Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH 289-1993. Office near campus.TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN. FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST  10. I am an old Southern gentleman 9. Shelby, it's Tommy ... 8. Adam's cathouse 7. I wear a·size B, but C's feel so good, I buy D's! 6. radio sta-TION  Water Polo Stud Well, what can I say? It's been a whole year, and I've loved every minute of it. You are the sunshine of my life. I LOVE YOU IIIII  Slciilt II roo c.w Got II your 1W11 ,_.ry plano to Clacu1, Mllxlco C11cun $475/ P1111, llotll Padro $1991 Conde  
call1007 Help! I Can't see. Lost: GLASSES in black case on tuesday, perhaps in or near  LAST + SEC. 684-3778. A MUST TO SEE: HISTORICAL AREA SPACIOUS 1 BEDROOM, HARDWOOD FLOORS,  CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11.  5. The wedding cake will be in the pool 4. I'm so busty I couldn't feel 'em 3. Janice, go to hell! 2. I'm built for speed not for  Carrie P.S. Looking forward to this weekend! P.S.S. You better cut this one out!  Bahamas SZ79/ l:rulle PIDIDII City, R. $99/ Hlltll Daytona Buell SZ501 Bas, Hotel CallaRCI Z11-1 811  
washington hall. If I don't get them soon I'll start flunking my classes. Dave, x2187  FIREPLACE, APPLIANCES, WASHER/DRYER, INCLUDES WATER, $410 PLUS DEPOSIT 532  George Loves Rachel Tom Loves Maul Hal  comfort 1 . Hey Bert, let's get T­shirtsl (how about navy  There are enough weasels in student government ­it's time for a rat.  
CARROLL 289-7416 OR 234-9923.  blue with white writing?)  VOTE WILBUR/GUS FOR  
LOST: Gold chain with half heart pendant. Monday evening between SOH & JACC. VERY SENTIMENTAL!!! Call Ryan x1134.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY  SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA BEACHES. FUN IN THE SUN, 4/RM. prices. Daytona $149, Panama City $139 Kitch, Wtrfrt & Trans Available. Call CMI at 1-800­423-5264.  BREAK A LEG: Carolyn, Noha, Suzy, Dawn, Michelle, Megan!!! CONGRATS: Lisa, Valerie, Kim, Katie!II  STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTNICE-PRESIDENT ************************HOWARD HALL SPIRIT WEEK:  
ALARM.FURNISHED.WALK TO  WE LOVE YOU!  Cara :) & Kathy  FRIDAY:  
Lost: sterling silver ring with gold plating on front and round blue lapis stone. Sentimental value. If found, please call at X2948.  CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306 NEED ACCOMODATION FOR JR. WEEKEND? 5 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. CALL 233-8745 AFTER 5:00.  IT'S NOT TOO EARLY TO SUBMIT YOUR VALENTINE PERSONALS. COME IN ANYTIME DAILY BEFORE 3:30 PM AND AVOID THE LAST MINUTE LINES.  Troublemaker,­Or should I say showofflll I just wanted to tell you that I was the lead singer for Van Halen, and I  Don't miss the hall dinner at Senior Bar at 5pm today. Free eats, good fun and find out who knows their roommate the best! !I  
"Dance for Heart" Aerobathon and  hope to continue my professional  
Stolen: From the Rockne, navy ND nylon sports jacket w/ gold sleeves, leprechaun patch, ND lettering, and wallet and keys. Valuables sorely needed returned. No questions asked, no grudges held. Reward. Call Steve 1131. LOST: Plastic I.D. Case with Driver's License, Sr. Bar Card, and Vali-Dine. If found, please call Michelle X1280.  ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL UTILITIES/FACILITIES. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. $225/MO. PAUL 232­2794. Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's families. 2 bedrooms, private bath. Ten minutes from campus. Safe~t neighborhood in area 234-2626. ·  Health Fair at Stephen Center Saturday, Feb. 8th. Health Fair begins at 10am­no admission. Power aerobic workout from 1-3 with instructor, Patrick Knowles. Aerobathon is $15 with N.D. 10. Proceeds benefit the American Heart Association. Call x4969 for details and pledge forms!! I YOU'RE GONNA VOTE FOR A RAT FOR SBP ANYWAY, WHY NOT VOTE FOR SOMEONE WITH  basketball career. By the way, to sum up, I fell down a lot. FL Hey Jon and Mary­Don't forget about Ladie's Club today! Stimulating personal, huh? I just wanted to make sure you read them like I told you to!!! Love, jz  TOP 10 REASONS TO GO TO HOWARD'S OLYMPIC SYR: 1 0. You-don't have to go all the way to Albertville to play the games. 9. Team play is encouraged. 8.You don't have to be in top physical condition to compete. 7. Training includes 12 oz. curls. 6. You don't have to be an athlete to score. 5. Gold medals only given to the best. 4. Toss a frisbee, not your cookies. 3. Stiff competition raises the level  DAYTONA BEACH SOUTH PADRE ISLAND STEAMBOAT PANAMA CITY BEACH FORT LAUDERDALE HILTON HEAD ISLAND MUSTANC ISLAND I PORT ARANSAS  ·-'fN ..-'121 .,~'f22 ..~.'122 ·-'IJfi ••m·'"' ··~'121  
3 BEDROOM -2-STORY WITH  A LIFETIME OF EXPERIENCE?  CATH SULLIVAN-HAVE A  of excitement.  
BASEMENT, APPLIANCES,  WONDERFUL TrMEHIS  2. Support your country: RED tie,  
Found: 2 dorm keys in North quad, near dining hall. Call Joe x1153 to identify.  FRESHLY PAINTED. 315 BRONSON $385 PLUS DEPOSIT 289-7416 OR 234-9923.  VOTE WILBUR/GUS FORSBP  WEEKEND WITH OUR SWEETIE PIE!!!! LOVE, ILL  WHITE shirt, BLUE jacket. 1 . Get torched without getting burnt.  TOLL FREE INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 1·800·321·5911 ........._,_.~­_w_,...,_,. ~­~..c------= =­ 



page 14 The Observer Friday, February 7,1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS Hornets sting Warriors; Mavs lose 8th straight 
--· 
•The 
Bookstore Basketball Tournament is looking for a new head and some assistant commissioners. Anyone interested should pick up an application at the student government secretary's desk on the second floor of LaFortune. Applications are due by Friday, February 7 and interviews will be held on February 10 and 11. Any questions, contact Kevin McGee at 234­5193. 

•The 
RecSports Downhill Ski Trip, originally scheduled for January 24 is rescheduled for today. Buses will leave the Library Circle at 5 p.m., and return at approximately 11 p.m. 25 dollars includes lift ticket, equipment and transportation. 

•Mixed 
doubles tennis social is open to all undergraduate and graduate students. Informal games will be played and you can sign up on an individual basis. The first night will be Monday, February 10 at 9. To sign up, please call Renee Wenger at 283­134 7 by this Friday. 

•ND/SMC 
Equestrian Club: Anyone interested in showing in the Iowa State Show from February 14 to 16 at Peotore, Illinois, please call Larissa at 289-7829. 

•Women's 
Bookstore Basketball will have an organiztional meeting on Wednesday, February 12. Anyone interested in commissioner or assistant commissioner positions is welcome to attend and should call 287-9548 for information on time and place. 

•WVFI 
will broadcast the Notre Dame-Michigan game live on Sunday, February 9. Thne in to 640 AM. 

•An 
Informational meeting for cheerleading and leprechaun tryouts will be held on Wednesday, February 12 at 7 


p.m. in the Football Auditorium in J.A.C.C. 
.rhe Notre Dame women's basketball team lost to Xavier 104-86 last night in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Irish dropped to 6-12 overall, while the Musketeers upped their record to 13-6. 
Cuse 
continued from page 20 
raved Stewart of Salvino (11-9). "We just hope he wrestles the best he can, and hopefully things will fall his way." 
At 118, sophomore Javier Rivera hopes to establish him­self after earning a draw in his first match of the season. 
Rivera defines the term "student-athlete." An academic scholarship winner from Anchorage Alaska, he had a ca­reer 115-23-2 high school record. He joined the Irish grapplers as a freshman. 
"Last season, he showed good 
,­

Happy 20th
The TV is on, the Kool-aid is cold, 
and the popcorn is burnt. Come on over I Love the MENARCHE BROTHERS 
Birthday,
P.S. "I got twenty" 


STEVE, 
Ashley.
I can't wait for tonight! Now It is your turn ... Put me in my place I AIM 
Love You! 
P.S. Sorry guys, no public entertainment tonight. 


Mom&Dad 
Hey Alice F., So. did G. E. call? 


AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER I.SAT 
This example of personalized attention IS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 40 Hours Of Live Instruction 
l;lOIII
• 
Live 1\Jtorial Available At No Extra Charge EDUCATIOIAL GROUP 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 


273-1866 
• 6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 
US 31 North
• Constantly Updated Materials 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
Rodnj!!y McCray's 3-pointer with eight seconds to play, but Drexler made two free throws with two seconds left. 
Pacers 117, Spurs 106 
SAN ANTONIO -Reggie Miller scored 28 points and Chuck Person added 24 to lead the Indiana Pacers over San Antonio 117-106, snapping the Spurs' five-game winning streak. 
The Pacers outscored the Spurs 17-9 in the fourth quar­ter to take a 101-92 lead with 
6:32 remaining. 
Class 

continued from page 13 
I love you Pooh Bearllll 
Big K cola rulesl\11111 

Top Ten one-week late quotes from I'm too sexy for this choir SYR: 
10. If I'm a lush. you're a lush 
9. Who cares? Go figure 
8. To parakeets 
7. He scared the piss out of me 
6. Those organ pipes should be twice as big 
5. Do you want me to drive you automatic or with my stick? 
4. That honking Dan 

3. I'm a lush, you're a lush, wouldn't you like to be a lush too? 
2. I'm not too sexy-l'm 3 sexy 
1. I'm not drunkl 

CASEY HALL-IS IT STILL DEAD? 
EVERYTHING YOU KNOW IS WRONGIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. (AP) ­Kendall Gill, who collapsed from a migraine headache at a shootaround earlier in the day, made his first six shots and finished with 27 points to lead the Charlotte Hornets past ·the Golden State Warriors, 132­113. 
Gill, in his second year out of Illinois, was hospitalized until two hours before tip-off but showed no ill effects during the game. 
Bucks 1 06, Nuggets 97 
MILWAUKEE -Dale Ellis and 
ey R. Zsabo, I heard your Physics test "went". ... I hope it "went well". So. did you guys stay up drinking last night? As usual, huh? Just Kidding. Have a good weekend .... 
Come see big, burly German men at the Cavanaugh Hall Play. February 27, 28, and 29 Washington Hall 8 p.m. Donations accepted for the Andy Sowder Scholarship fund 
Porn Pon Don't blame the cheerleaders-It might be their coach I Y'all got our respect out on the floor. Are you down with TND? Michigan gig in effectI To the "cute little red haired girl" sitting in section 3 row 14 or 15 on the aisle during the Detroit game, the taller of the two Rob's sitting a couple of rows in front of you and to your left would like to know if you'd like to go out sometime. Call me 277-6932. 

Gauchos, We need a fifth player. nto 
TO: K.H., K.M., M.K., K.P., C.G. AND THE F.F.F.: 
THE WAR HAS BEGUN IIIII 
Larry Krystkowiak sparked a fourth-quarter surge as Milwaukee rallied past Denver. 
The Bucks trailed by two points after three quarters but went on a 19-6 surge in the first six minutes of the final pe­riod. 
Trail Blazers 103, Mavericks 98 

DALLAS -Clyde Drexler scored 11 of his 32 points in the final three minutes and Portland sent Dallas to its eighth straight defeat. 
Dallas pulled to 101-98 on 
promise. He had good skills and a lot of desire," said Stewart. After taking last semester off to get his grades up to scholarship requirements, he returned to the team at an opportune time. With 118-pound starter Chris Jenson and backup Ed Jamieson both out, Rivera missed just one meet to get down to weight before in­heriting the starting job. 
While the Irish may be out­matched at 118, 142, 190, they hope to trump the Orangemen at heavyweight, 177, 150 and 
126. Heavyweight Chuck Weaver (14-4) won due to for­feit in the last match at Illinois, and should also steamroll 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

and Terri Vitale. At fifth and sixth, the Irish will choose from Ann Bradshaw, Katie Clark, and Eniko Bende to round out the lineup. 
At doubles, all three teams used iast week at Illinois played well, a strong sign for the Irish, who, in the past, have been somewhat shaky due to injuries and mixing teams around. Faustmann and Tholen, Bradshaw and Bende, and Vitale and Kristy Doran will provide the consistency the 
I . h I k' f . h . 
Syracuse's Mark Bateman (1­10). 
ND's 177-pound J.J. McGrew (6-4) squares off against Ethan Botch (12-8). Jamie Boyd hopes to improve his 13-5-1 mark as he faces Chris Saba (13-8-2) at the 150 pound level. At 126, se­nior Marcus Gowens has won 11 of his last 12 matches, suf­fering the only loss to sixth­ranked Mike Pasdo of Mar­quette. Gowens is ranked sev­enth with a record of 18-4. 
Coach Stewart also spoke of wrestling's home advantage. "When you're a visiting team you end up cutting your weight and you have to keep it down for a couple of days, it wears on you after a while," he said. 
doubles tandems. 
To further strengthen the doubles teams, Louderback may try to work Harris into the lineup, giving the Irish an addi­tional boost. 
"We want to get Melissa and Laura in our doubles lineup," said Louderback, "possibly against Tennessee. And all three of our teams played real well last week." 
The Irish head into this week­end full of confidence, a team looking to disprove its doubters. 
"We hope Melissa's still at Rolex, doing well," said Schwab, "so everyone will have to bear down. We're a really good team and we have a lot of 
t r 1" 
.. . . 

c : 1 1 L c : 1' r r c ) t rr! ! 
CASTLE POINT 
PARTY FOR SPRING BREAK SENIORS 
3-11 SUNDAY 
CASTLE POINT CLUBHOUSE KARIOKI MACHINE and DJ 
TICKETS ON SALE FRIDAY 
lA FORTUNE INFORMATION DESK 
l)()N''l' l\IISS 'l'IIt t:lJN 


page 15 

Phelps' latest bunch of re­cruits-the current freshman class-were never even coached by the man who 
SMC track opens 1992 season Macleod 
Senior Lynn Pfeffer leads Belles into Grand Valley Invite continuedtrompage2o 
brought them to South Bend. 
in shape. I didn't do it so much for the competition," she said. "It just ended up working out for everybody." 
"She's a real good javelin thrower for what we see in our area," said Szczechowski. ·she's been there for us for the last four years. She does a real good job." 
Pfeffer is concentrating on one goal-breaking the school javelin record set by Janet O'Niell three years ago. O'Niell recorded a toss of 116 feet, 5 inches. Pfeffer has come within two feet of that record and hopes to break it this year. 
"I want to break that javelin record," she said. "I'm only two feet away. I will break it. But if I don't, I'll have fun trying." 
Also returning for the Belles this season are Sharon Fisher, LaBarbera, Jackie Buckley, Cheryl Fortunak and Linehan. Fisher set the indoor record in 1500 meter (5:38.6). LaBarbera and Linehan set the outdoor 4x100 record with Pfeffer. Linehan also set the outdoor record in the 100. 
As for tomorrow's meet, Preffer and her teammates are very excited. "It's very hard be­ing a small school playing against big schools," she said, "but its fun. We have a lot bet­ter track team than we did my freshman year. I'm psyched for this track meet." 
Before deciding their fate, a few points merit consideration. 
•Past failures. In 1985, an exuberant Digger Phelps de­clared that the Irish-bolstered by the presence of freshman guard David Rivers-would play a faster-paced game. Notre Dame basketball and Digger Phelps' brand of play, declared Sport magazine, would never again be synonymous with boredom. 
The Rivers Experiment, how­ever, did not yield an NCAA championship. It did not even yield a trip to the Final Four. 
Rivers graduated and Phelps welcomed a new generation of players-LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet, Elmer Bennett, Keith Tower and Monty Williams. 
But incumbents Joe Frederick and Jamere Jackson went from super sophomores to second­half substitutes. 
As Digger was preparing for his second foray into the jun­gles of up-tempo basketball, he mysteriously resigned. Ellis had been ineligible for the sum total of one full season. Williams, di­agnosed with a dangerous heart condition, was medically barred from competition. 
Point guard Tim Singleton, leader of the Irish in the wake of numerous departures, him­self went down with a nagging back injury. 
•The schedule. John MacLeod did not see this year's Notre Dame schedule until after he had accepted the head coaching position. MacLeod promptly declared that the rigorous schedule-with its grueling nine-game road trip-would never be duplicated while he was coach. 
In fact, USA Today has ranked the Irish schedule as hardest in the nation. Notre Dame's schedule strength rates an 84.47, while only five of the remaining 299 Division schools have a strength over 
80. The Irish have taken on three of the top four teams in Division I, and 17 of their op­ponents are ranked 60th or higher. 
The verdict? 
Despite Phelps' unsuccessful fast-paced foray with David Rivers, MacLeod's Irish are no different from the Notre Dame team which, after faring so well at the 1991 pre-season NIT, floundered its way to an unim­pressive 12-20 record. 
While Digger typically promised-and delivered-a plodding half-court assault, MacLeod's gunners raised ex­pectations of a winning season, and have instead delivered de­feats. 
The fact that MacLeod planned for a jazzy game and did not deliver is not mitigated by the strength of the Irish schedule. The schedule is not so much a factor in the speed of 
: play as it is in the win-loss col-
By CHRIS BACON 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's track team will step foot into collegiate action tomorrow at the Grand Valley Invitational in Grand Rapids. The Belles have not been to the invitational in six years and are not sure what to expect in tomorrow's indoor meet. 
"Basically, we run the indoor season to get ready for the outdoor season," explained Belles coach Larry Szcze­chowski. "We don't know what to expect because most of our girls are young and nervous about their first college meet." 
Leading the Belles this season is senior Lynn Pfeffer. Pfeffer competes in the javelin, long jump, triple jump and the 4x100 meter relay. Last season, Pfeffer broke school records for the indoor long jump, leaping 14 feet, 10 1/2 inches at the North Central Invitational. Pfeffer also broke the outdoor triple jump record with a leap of 33 feet, 7 1/2 inches at the Carthage Invitational. 
In the 4x100 meter relay, Pfeffer, Christy LaBarbera, Tenesia Davis and Katie Linehan ran in a record 52.96 seconds at the Manchester Invitational. 
Leading her teammates in total points earned with 53, 

Lynn Pfeffer 

Pfeffer was voted most valuable player for field events. 
A talented track athlete, it is ironic that Pfeffer was recruited by Saint Mary's to play basketball. Then basketball coach Marv Wood recruited Pfeffer to play for his team. But as Pfeffer explains, "I only wanted to do one sport in col­lege. I like track better, so I chose to do track. 
Pfeffer was a league all-star for her high school basketball team in Braintree, Mass. She also competed in the javelin in the state track and field tour­nament during high school. 
Choosing to run just track at Saint Mary's, Pfeffer says she never planned on getting caught up in the intense level of competition of collegiate sports. For her, track has been a way for her to have a little fun. 
"I just did this for fun, to stay 
\\'I~~ER CA~~ES FIL.\1 FESTI\':\L 
BFST FIL.\1 BFST ACTOR BFST DIRFCTIO\ 
~~--------------------------------------------------------~ 
; . 

page 16 The Observer 


SMC hoops goes for third win in a row 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 

Two's company, three's a crowd, except for the Saint Mary's basketball team, cur­rently riding high on their first two-game winning streak for the season. 
Ranked during the preseason, the Belles (6-8) have had a tur­bulent season. Coming off of their two last-second upset vic­tories, they are preparing for victory number three against the University of Wisconsin­Oshkosh (14-5) this Saturday in Oshkosh. 
"We've played some good competition this season," ex­plained Belles coach Don Cromer. "I think if we can stay with them in the first half, we'll be ok." 
The matchup between the two schools is the first. Since Saint Mary's has never played the Lady Titons, or anyone in the Wisconsin Women's Inter­collegiate Athletic Conference (WWIAC), the Belles are not sure what to expect when they travel north. 
"It's going to be hard to go into a game not knowing any­thing about your competition or their league," said senior forward Catherine Restovich. Restovich led the Belles in Monday night's 78-75 victory 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Freshman Kathleen Gerigk (13) has been a solid contributor off the bench for the Saint Mary's basketball team. 
FOR DETAILS

• 
BEST SERVICE!

• 
lEST TAN! Stop In to see our 


Salon, Of call us at 

• BEST DEAL! 272-7653 
Expires February 21. 1992 


SENIORS: Remember this weekend is taping in the dorms for the 
SENIOR CLASS VIDEO 
against Bethel College with 17 points and 11 rebounds. 
Trailing through the first half, Bethel nearly defeated the Belles at home. Saint Mary's stole the lead in the second half, but both teams struggled to gain control of the game. The Lady Pilots ran out of gas in the final minutes of play, allowing the Belles to coast to victory. 
Four players reached double digits in the Bethel matchup, including Restovich. Junior center Kim Holmes chipped in 14 points. Sophomore guard Liz Vernasco tallied 13 points, while senior forward Janet Libbing added 15 points, 15 re­bounds and four steals. It is this type of team work that the Belles will need to defeat the Lady Titons. 
"I think we're just beginning to gel. The last two games that we've won, we've really come together as a team," said Cromer. "We're just going to try and move the kids in and out so they don't get tired and so we can get eight or nine out there playing." 
A win against the Lady Titans won't come easy to the Belles. They first must conquer the five-hour bus trip to Oshkosh. "One key (to winning) will be that trip," explained Holmes. "It's hard to stay up for a game after a five-hour trip." 
The Belles will also need to maintain their intensity on de­fense and on the fast break, two of the team's weaknesses. "We're trying a little different pressure," Cromer explained. 'Td like to do more full-court pressing. We've been working on this and the practices this week went well." 
MCC Championships come to Meyo Track 
By JENNIFER MARTEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's and women's track teams will par­ticipate in the second indoor meet of the season today as the lOth annual Midwestern Collegiate Conference Cham­pionships comes to Meyo Track in Loftus Center. 
The meet was originally scheduled for January 24th, but due to the tragic bus accident that killed two members of the Notre Dame women's swim team, the meet was postponed. 
The Irish men have been dominating in the event, capturing the championship in last eight years. Notre Dame has been competing in the event since 1983 and have taken the championship every year except 1987-1988, when the award was not given. 
In the meet, the Irish will be looking to extend their list of athletes who have won MCC individual championships over the last seven years at the event. 62 Notre Dame competitors have won individual championships, and the Irish hold 11 of the 16 meet records. 
After the Meyo Invitational last weekend, it looks like the Irish might just do that. For the men, seniors Pat Kearns and Phil Casper, sophomore Todd Herman, and freshman Lee Becton all qualified for the IC4A meet in Princeton, NJ later this spring. 
Casper qualified in the 400­meter dash, and Keams quali­fied for the mile race. In addi­tion, Herman made the mark in the high jump, Becton made the mark in the triple jump, and a mile relay team also made the cut for Notre Dame. 
"I expect the men to do 
well," said Notre Dame head 
track coach Joe Piane, "and I 
hope they do because it is a 
great opportunity." 
On the women's side, Loyola, Detroit, and Butler will line up beside Notre Dame on the starting line to see who will claim the first MCC title since Marquette, who dominated the event in recent years, joined a new conference. Loyola appears to have an edge after finishing in second place last year. 
"We're a much better track team then we were a year ago," said Piane of the women's team. All aspects of the team, the sprinters, the jumpers, and the distancers have all improved. 
There is no IC4A event for the women, but several members of the team ran very well in the Meyo Invitational. Junior Karen Harris set a Meyo record in the shot put en route to an individual victory in the event. The freshmen women put on quite a show with Lisa Junek and Eva Flood leading the way. Junek finished third in the 55­meter hurdles and the high jump. Flood finished fifth in the mile race. 

His Dream for  APrayer Service February 11, 1992 Tuesday 7:00 p.m. Sacred Heart Church  
America:  
Past, Present  
&Future  
 

Saturday. feb. 8 
Sorin Walsh Badin Morrissey Lyons Pangborn Fisher Dillon 
Alumni 
Lewis St. Ed's Carroll Howard 
11:00 11:30 12:00 12:30 1:00 1:30 2:00 2:30 3:00 3:30 4:00 4:30 5:00 

Sunday Feb. 9 
Cavanaugh 
Zahm 
Stanford Keenan Farley B.P. Siegfried 
Knott 
P.W. P.E. Grace Flanner 

Off-Campus seniors please call Katie@ 1315 to set up a time for taping Feb. 15 and 16. 
Irish to face another top opponent in no. 15 Michigan 
Observer Staff Report 
It will be youth versus experi­ence when Michigan and Notre Dame's men's basketball teams face off at the Joyce ACC on Sunday afternoon. 
The Wolverines (13-5) are ranked 15th in the country, and are 5-4 in the always-tough Big Ten conference. It is a strong turnaround from last season's 14-14 squad that lost in the first round of the NIT tourna­ment to Colorado. 
This team came back from a second-half deficit to upset Michigan State earlier in the year, and took top-ranked Duke to overtime before eventually falling to the Blue Devils. 
The Irish (7-1 0), meanwhile, have dropped two straight, starting with a 29-point blowout at the hands of Duke and then being shocked by Detroit Mercy last Tuesday 72­70, despite a career-high 38 points from Elmer Bennett. 
This will be the first meeting between these two teams since the Wolverines defeated NO 83­63 in the NIT finals in 1984. 
In what was tabbed the best recruiting class in history, Wolverine coach Steve Fisher landed five freshmen who have each made immediate impacts. Juwan Howard, Ray Jackson, Jimmy King, Jalen Rose, and Chris Webber, the "fab five" are a nucleus for the future, but each has contributed in a large way this season. 
Webber stands out as the cream of the crop, including among his performances a tremendous national television contest against Duke; however, any one of the five can explode on any given night. 
"Everyone knows how good Michigan's freshmen are," said sophomore Joe Ross. They are a good team, and this will be a big game for us." 
The Irish, meanwhile, have established themselves as a three-man team, whether they want to be or not. Seniors LaPhonso Ellis (16.5 ppg, 10.6 rpg), Elmer Bennett (17.3 ppg, 
5.7 apg) and Daimon Sweet 
(16.8 ppg) have carried the Irish this season, and are the predominant scorers on the team. Shut them down, and the Irish, though not bad, do not have the depth to compete with the nation's best. 
Senior center Keith Tower is out for two to six weeks with a fracture in his left elbow, and sophomore Jon Ross has stepped up into the starting lineup. Ross has filled in well, and over the season, proving to be a durable sixth man, averag­ing 4.3 points and 2.5 rebounds a game. Filling out the starting lineup for the Irish, freshman Billy Taylor heads a cast of young players, scoring 6.1 points a game. 
To win this contest, however, the Irish bench will have to prove themselves. Teams key in on the "big three," and if no one 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp Senior Daimon Sweet skies past Detroit Mercy's Michael Jackson for two of his 14 points during Tuesday's 72-70 loss to the Titans. Sweet and the rest of the Irish meet 15th-ranked Michigan on Sunday. 
can step up to pick up the scoring load, the Irish will be in trouble. Considering that the senior trio accounts for 73 per­cent of the Irish points each game, if one of them has an off night, the Irish may be in for a struggle. 
A victory over the Wolverines would be a huge win for the Irish, certainly providing the boost of confidence that this talented-if somewhat inconsis­tent-team needs to get jump­started for the remainder of the season. 
"We had a tough game against Duke," said Joe Ross, "and then lost a game we should have won against Detroit Mercy. I think we just need to go out and have a big game against Michigan and get a streak going." 
• •. ALUM:::N~I====:.1
-SEN;QR 
~CLUB 
STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
& 
JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPUCA TION DEADUNE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 
'l'he Obsener_ 
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: 
News Editor Sports Editor Accent Editor Viewpoint Editor Saint Mary's Editor Photo Editor Systems Manager 
Advertising Manager Ad Design Manager Production Manager OTS Director Controller Art Director 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 12. For further information or job descriptions, contact Monica Yant at The Observer, 239-5303. 

..·sw1m. 
:: .. :·==···:·===~ 
··:::~=:: 

By CHRISTINE PENOTE Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
After an intense week of training. the Saint Mary's swim team is ready to take on the University of Indianapolis at Rolf's Aquatic Center tonight at 
7:00p~m. 
This week's motto for the Belles is "it's the little things." After smoothing out any rough edges on their strokes, it's finally time to focus on the details. And in preparing for this difficult meet, Belles coach Dennis Coo r has put great 
on the .team's cbo-rtciutid turns. basic fundamentals correctly in pr:~lt~t,\ f(lf Jll.s:to succeed, · 
* HOMFSI'YIE COOKJN' IN 1EXAS.m POR'llONS AT AFFORDABIE PRICE! 
(NO 11PPlNG RF.pmiN 11IE RESrA1JRAN11 
* UVE COUNm' MUSIC wmN&'lDAY thm SAnJRDAY 
* COUNl1Y SWING, 2-Sl'EP AND UNE DANCE ~'lmDAY thm THURSDAY 
* MONI1ILY CONCERTS BY 1liE NAnON'S TOP COUNm' lmORMERS *Brooks &: Dmm *Pam Tillis *BoDy Dmm *Diamond Rio 
* DlS1'INCl'1VE PRIVAm EVF.Nl' F~ FOR UP ro 400 ~ 
NO\VOI!N 


page 18 The Observer Friday, February 7,1992 
Fencers hope to stay undefeated 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's and 
women's fencing teams depart 
today for the University of 
Illinois, where they will face 
perennial Midwestern powers 
Wayne State and Detroit in a 
meet that will present a chal­
lenge to the undefeated Irish 
fencers. 

"It will be a good test as we 
gear up for the postseason,• 
said Irish head coach Mike 
DeCicco. "It should be interest­
ing." 

Also competing in the meet 
will be Michigan State and 
Purdue, but it is clear Detroit 
and archrival Wayne State will 
provide NO's main competition. 
In the men's foil competition, the Irish will be challenged by an excellent Detroit squad, but they will counter with seniors Mike Trisko and Ed Lefevre, and junior captain Jeff Piper. 
Trisko and Lefevre both 
compiled undefeated records at 
last week's meet in Angola, 
Ind., and they will be counted 
on this weekend in lllini land. 
"It should be a hard-fought match," said DeCicco of the foil competition, "It will come down to who wants it more." 
In another interesting matchup, the Irish women should have their hands full with an impressive Wayne State foil team. All-American Heidi Piper, who went 15-0 last week, will look to lead the Irish women foilists to victory. But the match will hinge on the success of Piper's supporting cast, which includes sophomore Corinne Dougherty, junior Kathy Vogt, and seniors Tara Kelly, Mary Westrick, and Kelly and Rachel Haugh. 
"The key is how well they they come forward in support of Heidi," noted DeCicco. "And if we get a performance from Heidi like we had last weekend, we'll have a real strong shot at it." 
Turning to the men's sabre competition, we find that the Irish are prohibitive favorites. Senior captain Chris Baguer, who sports an outstanding 18-1 season slate, will team with brother Ed Baguer, who went 7-0 in his first competition of the year last week. 
Joining them will be junior All-American James Taliaferro (17 -6), seniors Henry Chou and DS\vid Kirby, and freshman Chris McQuade. Last week Chou tallied an impressive 5-0 
The Chinese 

The Cbelverll<ennelh 08good The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams are in action this 
weekend at the Midwest Open. 
record. 

Rounding out the competition will be the epee squad, led by senior All-American David Calderhead. The Wandsford, England native went 8-2 last week and will look for support from fellow senior Ben Finley and junior Geoff Pechinsky, who both went undefeated with two wins and no losses, and ju­nior Per Johnsson, who also provided a spark, going 6-1. Sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak, freshman Joe Monahan, and senior Craig Conner will also be counted on for key victories. 
DeCicco, now in his 30th year at the helm, singled out senior leaders Heidi and Jeff Piper, Baguer, and Calderhead as keys to the Irish's prospects this weekend in Champaign. 
"They're going to have to carry the load," noted DeCicco. Mlf they fence well, we should 

Golden Dragon Acrobats and Magicians of ,.aipei 
Thursday and Friday 
February 6 and 7 8:10pm Washington Hall 
Tickets $8 -Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 
$10-General Admission Group rates available LaFortune Center Box office 
come back still undefeated." 
The Irish's season record stands at 10-0, and although they carry a 33-match winning streak into this weekend's competition, DeCicco is not worried. 
"I'm definitely optimistic we can end our dual meet season at 14-0," said the legendary coach. 
REUSE 
please 
Hockey hosts CCHA power Western Michigan 
By ANTHONY KING Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame hockey team will continue its quest for a victory against a CCHA opponent when they face Western Michigan this weekend. 
The Irish (8-12-1) are being initiated to CCHA conference play, and painfully so. It has been a 16-game drought for Notre Dame versus CCHA op­ponents. Last weekend the Irish lost two games to seventh­place CCHA member Ferris State, and things don't get easier against Western Michigan, who is two points off the conference lead. 
The Broncos post an impres­sive 14-8-2 mark coming into Friday's matchup at the Joyce Fieldhouse. Western Michigan is ranked in the top 20, and riding a six-game win streak. 
"They are ranked 12th in the nation," explained center Curtis Janicke. "They are a tough team. The CCHA is a tough league, but we can compete. We can do well in this league; we have to mature as a hockey team." 
Much of the Bronco success can be attributed to sophomore goalie Keith Brown. Brown has won seven straight games, and stopped 69 of 73 shots last weekend against Miami. 
The explosive Western Michigan offense is led by se­nior winger Keith Brown, who leads the team in scoring with 41 points. 
Notre Dame will have to get its offense back on track against the Broncos. The Irish were limited to only three goals, all scored in Saturday's contest, in last weekend's losses. 
Part of the problem has been the sudden departure of the Notre Dame power play. The Irish had one of the nation's top five most efficient power play units, converting on 31 percent of their opportunities going into last weekend's matchup. 
However, it was a different story against Ferris State, as Notre Dame could only manage one power play goal in 16 op­portunities. 
"We really worked on the power play this week," ex­plained Janicke. "It was one of the things that we concentrated on." 
The Irish will look to Janicke, the leading scorer, to get the offense back on track. Janicke scored his tOOth career point last Saturday with a goal and an assist, giving him 30 goals and 70 assists for his career. 
"It's a pretty good accom­plishment," said Janicke. "To be in the company of Lou Zadra and Dave Bankoske is really something." 

Now available at a 
store near you. 
You don't have to travel far to most comfortable shoe ever made. Ernie's carries the complete fine of Birkenstock's, as well as New Balance athletic shoes and other orthopedic footwear to ease your aches and pains 
% 
'. .,:. 

new location! Ma~ ~\.

HIC CENTER \, King 
& SHOE REPAIR ERNIE'S s'f'-·?..'"!J M-F 8-5:30 Sat 8-4 13121 State Route 23 (219) 273-2124 
-'l'he 0~--~~·
--~ ~i.DI:;~;=Y=-...,_A.-:--­
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: Managing Editor Business Manager 
Applicants for the Managing Editor's position should: •Have a wide base of Macintosh computer knowledge• •Have strong interpersonal and management skills• •Have strong editing skills and experience• •Be familiar with newspaper production• 
Applicants for the Business Manager's position should: 
•Be a sophomore or junior Business major· •Have desire to gain valuable work experience• 
•Have strong interpersonal and organizational skills• •Have a firm grasp of basic accounting principles• 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to Monica Yant by 5 p.m. Friday, Feb. 7. For further information or job descriptions, contact Lisa Eaton (Managing Editor) or Gil Gomez (Business Manager), at The Observer, 239-5303. 
Friday, February 7, 1992 The Observer page 19 
JAY HOSlER 

THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON 


£VID£NTI..V, MY CANOIOAGY FOR SBP ISN'T BfiNm TAK£N Vf;R'{ 
SERIOOS.L'/. THOSE RSSUMe:.­PADDIN67 STUDENT 6JDV 'T 
PINI-!EADS AR£E BTRY'IN\~~ fN'vn:: 
SIL.tNC.E M B 1
/NGJ Mf TO TH£ SBP DE /lTE. 
.. 

CAMPUS 
Friday 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. Film, "Barton Fink." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission 
$2. 8 p.m. Ballet, "The Sleeping Beauty." Presented by The Indianapolis Ballet Theater. O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Admission $7. 8 and 10 p.m. Film, "Boyz N The Hood." Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2. 
8:10 p.m. Viva, "The Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats and Magicians of 
Taipei." Washington Hall. Admission $8. 
Saturday ... 
7:30 and 9:45 pm. Film, "Barton Fink." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission
$2. 
7:30 pm. Folk Dancing. Club House, Saint Mary's College. Admission $. 8 pm. Davis and Wingfield, "Chicago Jazz." O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint 
Mary's College. Admission $7. 8 and 10 pm. Film, "Boyz N The Hood." Cushing Auditorium. Admission $2. 
LECTURES 
Friday
49 First word of 13 Scandinavian king
ACROSS 

Clement Moore poem (var.)1 Book covers 51 Sister 14 Organization 
4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium, "On Stability Preserving Mappings and
B Western hemisphere 52 U. of Michigan's (abbr.) 
Qualitative Equivalents of General Dynamical Systems," Anthony Michel. Room
country arch-rival 23 Tchai kovsky 
15 Chilean seaport 55 Lawyer (abbr.) 25 Chinese province 226, Mathematics Building. Admission free. 16 Rules 56 A friend----... 26 Actor who played 17 Promote the 61 Income statement Mr. Chips development of item 27 Powerful glue 
Saturday
18 Wo 1fgang -63 Daughter of Minos 28 Hindu language Mozart and Pas i phae 29 "Things -what 19 Patriot Hale 64 Pause in a 1i ne of they seem" 9·10:15 a.m. Panel Discussion, "The Press and the Presidency." Center for 
20 Family member verse 30 Famous cup 
Continuing Education. 
21 Depot (abbr.) 65 Certain fringe 32 With full force 
22 Jazz form benefit 33 Sells: Sp. 10:30 a.m.-noon. Panel Discussion, "Student Journalism at Notre Dame." 24 Greek letters 66 Collected 34 Let up Center for Continuing Education. 26 Adjusted, as 67 Most uptight 36 "-Little Fays" 
4·5 p.m. Lecture, "American Media in the Coming Decade," Matthew Storin '64; 
currency 40 Like some courses 
Executive Editor, New York Daily News. Center for Continuing Education. 
31 California desert 43 Section of Brooklyn ­35 Gilbert and Sul­DOWN 45 -joke livan output 1 Islamic spirit 47 Disposition 37 Ancient Greek 2 Beginning for lung 50 Beginning for fast 
Valley 3 Mr. Gowdy 52 Killer wha~e . MENU 38 Swelling 4 -and kin 53 Line of st1tch1ng 39 Cut 5 Unchanging 54 Eye layer 
Notre Dame
41 Actress Grey, et al. 6 Attendances 57 Prefix: nose 42 Paul Bunyan 7 Meet a poker bet 58 Miss Adams activity 8 Let out ----59 Baseball hall-of­44 City near San (displayed shock) famer S~aughter . Grilled Turkey Steak Mozz. Sandwich Bernardino 9 Oedipal symptom 60 Fender 1mperfect1on Shrimp Poppers 46 Donald Trump, e.g. 10 Tax -62 Suffix for count 
Vegetable Calzone 
48 Like Liberace's 11 Roulette color 63 t1ighty Joe Young, clothing 12 Angers for one Beef Noodle Casserole 
MARCHG-15 7 NIGHTS ~RAMADA INN F 9 !! BUS TRANS TA NINCLUDED 
Contact the Secretary ilthe Student Government C 2nd Floor Lafortune Student Center 
a 
CAllm-7668 
DEADLINE FOR SIGN-UPS IS FEBRUARY 7!!! 
(A $75 DEPOSIT IS REQUIRED AT SIGN-UPS) 
~~~~ 
'The 'Lnc:HanpoUs Ba.Uet 'Jheatre ~AT MAN proudLy presents 
THURSDAY, FEB. 6 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
S[eeping ~eauty 
k.6¥t.. N THE H66l> 
~ FRIDAY, FEB. 7 ~O~t.,. SATURDAY, FEB. 8 ~e6ruary 7, 1992 ~~.q_. 8 PM & 10:30 PM O'LaugfUin Jlutfitorium 
0"'"" 0;. 
..~~v~

8P'M 
J'~-1'~4-(';\
Tu.Kf_ts on sa[e at tfie La~ortune Information 'DesK_ 
··' <1~
antf O'LaugMin 1lo:t Offices 
Notre Dame/St. Mary's students $7 General Admission $14 Senior Citizens l Children (under 10) $12 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
... ----...~----.... ----.. 

Sports 

The Observer/John Bingham Heavyweight Chuck Weaver is a key member of the ND wrestling team. Earlier this year, Weaver upset Ohio State's Ray Mendoza (shown here), the seventh-ranked wrestler in the heavyweight division. 
two good wrestlers at 142 and 
190. (Rich) Santana and (Mark) Kerr are two of the best in the country." 
with an 18-3 record, will battle Irish senior Tom Salvino. "He's improved incredibly this year," 
see CUSE I page 14 

Tennis teams face stiff competition this weekend 
Women look to avenge season-opening loss 
By RICH SZABO 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team returns home this weekend, intent on proving that last week's loss to Illinois was a fluke and that they are a team to be feared. 
The Irish, upset in the season-opening match at Illinois, 5-4, host three matches in a two-day period at the Eck Pavilion. 
On Saturday morning at 10:00 am, the Irish will tackle Kansas State, a team receiving votes in the current poll, in which the Irish stand at number 25. A doubleheader is featured for Sunday, with the 
.. 
Irish meeting Drake at 9:00 a.m. and then taking on Miami (Ohio) immediately 'lfterwards. 
"It'll be a tough weekend for us," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "They're all good teams. Not great teams, but good teams, and we're going to have to get back into playing matches. I think everybody is ready to play." 
"We're more prepared now," added freshman Laura Schwab. "The first match coming back is always tough. and it opened our eyes as to what we need to work on. Plus, the crowd (at Illinois) was a little hostile, so it'll be good to be back home." 
The Irish (0-1) may or not be with the services of number-one singles player Melissa Harris for the weekend. Harris, who won the Rolex Regionals in the fall, is competing at the National Indoor c:.ampionships in Minneapolis, which started yesterday and run through Sunday. 
Harris, the number-seven player in the country, is seeded fifth at the tournament, and depending on her performance, each of the Irish players may be hitting up a spot in the lineup for one or more of the matches. 
-
"This will be a tough tournament," commented Louderback. "It features the top players in the 
country, and it will be one of the best two or three national tournaments. Anyone you play is going to be good there. 
"It will be good for her to do well, but no matter how she does there, I look for her to have a good year. This is more of an individual thing, but it helps when it comes to the NCAA's." 
Yesterday, Harris won her opening round match, defeating USC's Petra Schmitt, the 22nd-ranked player in the country, 7-5, 4-6, 6-1. Harris next plays today at 11:00 a.m. 
If Harris does not make it back for the weekend's matches, the Irish will tentatively go with Schwab at first, followed by Christy Faustmann, Lisa Tholen 
see TENNIS I page 14 


Dilucia, Harris lead way at Rolex Indoors 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's top male and female tennis players both reached the second round of the Rolex National Indoor Championships yes­terday at Minneapolis, Minn. 
Senior David DiLucia, 


the top seed at this Melissa Harris weekend's tournament, cruised past Fresno State's Greg Anderson, 6-4, 6-1. 
DiLucia, ranked second in the nation in singles, upped his 1991-1992 match record to 9­2 with his victory over the 33rd-ranked player in the nation. 
DiLucia will meet Tony Bujan of Texas Christian in the round-of-16 today. Bujan is 16th-ranked nationally. 
Junior Melissa Harris, the sole woman representing the Irish at the tournament, reached the second round with a 7-5, 4-6. 6-1 victory over Petra Schmitt of Southern California. 
Harris, the seventh-ranked player in the nation, will put her 20-2 record on the line today against 32nd-ranked Deb Edelman of Indiana. 
Junior Andy Zurcher, Notre Dame's second entry in the men's single draw, dropped a three­set match to San Diego's Jose Luis-Noriega, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. Luis-Noriega has proven himself to be an Irish nemesis, having eliminated DiLucia from last year's NCAA tournament in Athens, Ga. 
In men's doubles action, DiLucia and junior Chuck Coleman teamed up to knock off Clemson's ninth-seeded duo of Greg Seilkop and George Lampert, 6-1, 6-4. 
DiLucia and Coleman, unranked nationally but the number-five seed at the Rolex Indoors, take on the Texas Christian tandem of Bujan and Luis Huette today. Bujan and Huette, the fourth seed, defeated Minnesota's Roger Anderson and Dean Hlushko in first-round action. 
'New-look' Irish quickly returning to same old habits 
"I want to speed up the tempo, 
Whereas Digger's teams would cross the ten-second Coming into the Michigan game, Notre Dame can I want high percentage shots line and set up their pounding, big-man oriented boast of a .495 shooting percentage from the field. along with a strong defense, but attack, the new-look Irish sprint past halfcourt and Sub-par free-throw shooting (.692) has not helped I don't want bad shots put up." fizzle. matters. 
So said John MacLeod in Turnovers have been a major hindrance to the A whopping 2-4 at home this season, the Irish may August, 1991. would-be run-and-gunners. In their first 17 games, have to wait until 1993 to get their 300th victory at 
The Irish basketball team was including Tuesday's 72-70 home loss to Detroit Mercy, the Joyce ACC. Who's left on Notre Dame's home to become-in supposed contrast Notre Dame has turned the ball over 279 times (an slate? Michigan, Stanford, Marquette, UCLA, Loyola to Digger Phelps' maligned half­impressive average of 16.4 per game). (Ill.), Saint John's and Xavier. court game-a "fast-paced" Dave Dletman Five times this season, the Irish have coughed the After what the athletic department has confessed to team. Sports Editor ball up 20 times or more. be the worst advance ticket sales in the history of Irish 
Yet while the Irish are--_;______ As if turnovers did not create enough problems, basketball, the Blunderdome has been "packed" with preparing to host 15th-ranked Michigan on Sunday, Notre Dame's shooting game has left something to be an average 8, 700 fans-few of whom are students. the up-tempo brand of play which would supposedly desired. On several occasions, the Irish have So what's the verdict on MacLeod's "up-tempo" set the "Thunderdome" rocking is still missing and demonstrated a marked inability to feed the ball into Irish? presumed lost. their big men under the hoop. 
see MACLEOD I page 15 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_. 



