~----------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------­
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 52 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER11, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bush's new budget sees no changes 
WASHINGTON (AP) -In a departure from recent outgoing presidents, President Bush will submit a bare-bones federal budget in January that will seek no new tax or spending changes, administration and congressional officials said Tuesday. 
Instead, the unusually brief document will summarize what fiscal policy has looked like during the Bush administration and simply project what the 1994 budget would look like without any of the changes President-elect Clinton is cer­tain to make. Fiscal 1994 be­gins next Oct. 1. 
"There's just no reason to make a political statement," said a White House Office of Management and Budget aide who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We've basically decided to put the numbers to­gether and tee the ball up for Clinton." 
Despite that disclaimer, the document may be more politi­cal than described. 
By laying out his final mea­surement of how the economy is performing and how it is af­fecting federal tax collections and spending, Bush will be establishing a benchmark to which Clinton's later spending 
see BUSH I page 4 


The Observer/Sue Kehias 
The time has come 

Senior Mike Hartmann uses the computers in the registrar's office of the Administration Building to DART into classes for next semester. DART is also accessible by calling 283-3003. 

Roemer sees likeness with 'moderate' Clinton 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
Elected to a second term, In­diana Third District Represen­tative and Notre Dame gradu­ate Tim Roemer said he plans to work together with Presi­dent-elect Bill Clinton to get the economy moving and reinvest in the American people by creating jobs and improving education. 
"I am cautiously excited about President-elect Bill Clinton," 


Roemer said. "I hope expecta­knowledge and skills to become tions aren't too high, but I know competitive professionals in the there is great potential to get working world," he said. things done for the country." Roemer plans to work on the 
Roemer believes that Clinton re-authorization of the Educa­and he will be compatible tion Act for primary, secondary working together because they and vocational schools during both hold relatively moderate, his second term. conservative Democratic views. During his first term, he 
"Clinton and I are both pop­helped reform the Higher Edu­ulist and reform-minded, as cation Act. "I listened to rec­well," he added. ommendations from students at 
As for his constituents in In­Notre Dame, Father Hesburgh,diana, Roemer said he plans to President Malloy and others at live up to their expectations the university to help me," he that he will continue to be said. "energetic and innovative." Rebuilding infrastructure in 
Under his Marshall plan, America by building and im­named after former President proving roads and bridges will Truman's Secretary of State create job opportunities and in­George Marshall, he has pro­crease accessibility to busi­posed to rebuild America by fo­nesses, according to Roemer. cusing on reform in three key The tax structure also needs areas: education, infrastructure to be reformed to encourage and taxation. individual savings and provide 
"I want to reform our school permanent tax credit for busi­systems, making them more ness investments in machinery competitive and challenging so and research to modernize fac­that our students have the 
see ROEMER I page 4 

Bosnia's warring factions sign unconditional cease-fire agreement 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Bosnia's warring factions signed an uncon­ditional cease-fire covering the entire republic Tuesday, but it was uncertain whether all had the will or means to end months of bloodletting. 
Also Tuesday, the Red Cross evacuated about a third of the estimated 6,000 people -Mus­lims, Croats and Serbs -who have been trying to abandon Sarajevo. The agreement on a Bosnian cease-fire, which was to go into effect at midnight Wednesday, was reached during negotiations among military commanders who have been meeting for two weeks at the Sarajevo airport on a plan to demilitarize the capital. 
Several long-term trends ar­gue for an end to the fighting in Bosnia. These include the ap­proach of winter, increasing economic problems and diplo­belled after Muslims and Croats matic isolation in Serbia, and voted for independence on Feb. the military losses and lack of 29. Serbs, who made up about a supplies and food on the Mus­third of the republic's prewar lim side. population, have captured 

However, dozens of truces about 70 percent of Bosnia. have failed in Bosnia in the past Croats control most of the rest -many within hours -be­of the republic, mainly in the cause top commanders lack southwest. That leaves control over fighters in the field. Muslims, the largest single 
At least 14,000 people have group with about 43 percent of been killed in the fighting, the prewar population, in con­which started when Serbs re-trol of only small pockets of territory. 
"We will stick to it," Bosnian government spokesman Kemal Muftic said as Serb artillery rounds landed around the downtown presidency building. "We have ordered our forces to stick to what is written in the agreement." 
Serb interest in a truce could be related to economic troubles and political battles in serb­dominated Yugoslavia. 

Thatcher may have promoted arms sales to Iraq within weeks of invasion of Kuwait 
LONDON (AP) -The gov­ernment on Tuesday an­nounced an inquiry into charges that Margaret Thatcher's Cabinet secretly promoted arms sales to Iraq until within weeks of Baghdad's invasion of Kuwait in August 1990. 
The furor erupted after three executives of Iraqi-owned Ma­trix Churchill Corp. were ac­quitted Monday of selling arms­making machine tools to Iraq between 1988 and 1990, in vio­lation of an arms embargo. 
Prosecutors dropped the charges after former Trade Minister Alan Clark acknowl­edged that the government had encouraged the exports. A Bri­tish secret service agent testi­fied that Matrix Churchill's former managing director, Paul Henderson, had been a spy for MI6, the external intelligence agency. 
The opposition has charged that Thatcher knew of the arms sales and that the government was prepared to let Henderson and two other businessmen go to jail to cover up intelligence activities. 
In a statement after the trial, Henderson's lawyer said Hen­derson had been told by Clark in 1988 that British and U.S. policy were coordinated, and that Henderson had no doubt the information he provided was shared with the CIA and available to the White House. 
Testimony at the trial also indicated the United States would have known about the sales. 
U.S. Congressional critics have charged that the Bush administration was aware Iraq was getting Western help in rearming after the Iran-Iraq war but did nothing to stop it. 

"There have been some ex­traordinary stories about this matter," Prime Minister .John Major told the House of Com­mons on Tuesday. "I agree they must be clarified beyond any measure of doubt." 
The sales, worth more than $37 million, took place when Thatcher was prime minister. Major, then a Cabinet minister, succeeded her in November 1990, shortly before the Gulf War allies launched air strikes to drive Iraq from Kuwait. 
The Matrix Churchill debacle comes less than a week after Major's government nearly col­lapsed in a parliamentary battle over a European treaty, and adds to the misery of a gov­ernment already in deep trou­ble over the economy. 
"Thus a government widely seen as incompetent now stands accused of corruption," 

page 2 Wednesday, November 11, 1992

The Observer 
INSIDE COLUMN 
There is pain on both ends of hateful 'views' 
Lately my phone has been ringing. Unfortu­nately it has not been the long awaited knight in shinning armor. Instead, my frequent phone caller is a close-minded, unlov­ing racist claiming me to be a "token black" for the university (in harsher -------­words, unfit for publication}. 
Then of course there's this neo-nazi man who blames the Jewish-Americans for the problems in our nation. Okay, whatever. 
It's incredible that such people still exists; sur­prising no, but incredible yes. Almost to the point of being intriguing. Where do these people come from? What has been their life experience? Where ever or what ever it was, I'm sorry for them. 
It's disheartening to hear of another person hurting so much inside, that they must resort to placing the pain on some else. Someone different from them. Not better nor worse; simply different. 
It's hard being a minority, being it Mrican­American, Hispanic-American, Jewish­American, female, disabled, or homosexual. The varieties of minorities in this country are nearly infinite. And each one has been subjected to cruel, unjust treatment. 
The saddest part? That it's not over, that in all reality; it will never be over. It may not be as blatant, but it's always as painful. 
Painful to know that no matter what scores one receives or grades one acquires, if a mi­nority, that person will still be seen a just that, a minority; 
Painful to know that no matter what position one earns or successful heights one reaches, if a minority, that person will still be seen a just that, a minority. 
Because somewhere along the way, more than once, that minority will sense resistance to them simply because of their physical traits. 
Should The Observer have printed that filth­ridden article last Thursday? That shouldn't be the issue. What people should be outraged about is the man's ideas. Believe it or not, there are students right here at Notre Dame who do not believe racism exists. It does people, it does. 
What good would have been done if Viewpoint had trashed the letter? The racist ideas, once again, would have been swept under the rug for no one to see. That's not the way, if any, to rid the unfounded prejudices that remain in our world. 
It can't be denied. Racism still exists. It may not be as public as it was "back in the day, n but it sure hasn't gone away. The evidence is in Rodney King and his jurors; the evidence is in the recent guest columnist; the evidence is on television, in the stores, and in our schools. The evidence is everywhere. 
So for my faceless caller, and the faceless columnist, and for all those out there who carry prejudices against others, may you realize that we are all beautiful creations of God. As God's creatures, we are taught to love and be loved. We are taught to follow Jesus in his divinity. 
And essentially we are all tokens; precious to­kens of God. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Today's Staff  
Production  Sports  
Peggy Crooks  Jason Kelly  
Bryan Nowicki  Accent  
News  Julie Wilkens  
Becky Barnes  Mary Schultze  
Kenya Johnson  John LoGuidice  
Systems  Lab Tech  
Harry Zembillas  Pat McHugh  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FORECAST  
Cloudy and cool  
today with a 60  
percent chance of  
showers . Highs  
around 50. Cloudy  
and cool Thursday  
with a 30 percent  
chance of rain.  
TEMPERATURES  
H  L  
42  40  
57  37  
70  52  
40  25  
75  64  
46  39  
45  31  
62  58  
42  38  
Indianapolis  49  35  
Jerusalem  66  45  
London  55  50  
Los Angeles  7 4  60  
Madrid  70  43  
Minneapolis  31  30  
FRONTS:  Moscow Nashville  32 56  30 35  
• •COLD  •• WARM  •• •STATIONARY  New York Paris Philadelphia Rome  43 54 44 63  29 48 30 48  
Seattle  50  39  
South Bend  51  47  
Tokyo  55  52  
Washington, D.C.  49  31  
SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 

26 Die in school bus collision 
•CAIRO, Egypt -A school bus rammed a poorly lit trailer truck near the Red Sea port of Safaga, killing 18 children and eight teachers, police said Tuesday. Police Capt. Nasser Salah said the bus driver and 17 children and teachers were seriously injured in the accident Monday night and taken to hospitals. The remaining 13 children and teachers were treated for minor injuries. Salah said the children, aged 6 to 12, were returning to Safaga, 300 miles southeast of Cairo, after an excursion to the capital. The field trip was a reward for getting good grades, he said. 
NATION 

Rose found guilty of assault 
•cLAYTON, Mo. -Rock star Axl Rose was found guilty 
OF INTEREST 
•NDCIBD 
members must submit resumes today in the mailbox outside the ISO Lounge in LaFortune or to respective division directors. 

•A 
Thanksgiving service opportunity in Chicago will be offered by the Center for Social Concerns. Students will serve at St. Martin DePoores House of Hope from Nov. 25 to 28. Consider sharing your gifts and gratitude through Thanksgiving service. An informa­tional meeting will be at 4 p.m. at the esc. or contact Jim DeMarco at 283-4146. 

•Latin 
Vespers and Mass in honor of St. Martin of Tours will be tonight at 5 p.m. in Alumni Hall Chapel. Fr. Patrick Maloney will preside. All are welcome. 

•Eucharistic 
Adoration program will hold an in­troductory meeting tonight from 7:30-8:30 in the Alumni Hall Chapel. The meeting will include exposition and benediction of the Blessed Sacrament with a talk by Fa­ther Warner of Campus Ministry. Call Chris at 232-7315 for more information. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING November 10 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 275,019.040 +0.03 to 230.66 S&P COMPOSITE 

+0.03 to 418.62 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-15.40 to 3225.47
UNCHANGED 586 

GOLD 
-$3.00 to S:l:lO.lO oz 
SILVER 
-$.057 to $3.645 oz 
today of property damage and assault during an aborted Guns N' Roses concert last year that escalated into a riot. Rose was given two years' probation and ordered to pay $50,000 in donations to five local social service organizations. A videotape showed Rose 


diving into the concert crowd when he spotted someone with a camera, then punching a man. He then smashed his microphone on the stage and stormed off, ending the show early. 
Teen-ager may face death penalty 
•MARION, 
Ind.-Eddie Richardson, 18, could receive between 30 and 60 years in prison or the death penalty if he is convicted of killing 18-year-old Dawn Arnold and her 21-week old fetus. Neighbors found Arnold Nov. 1 in the alley behind her house. Marion Police Detective Lt. Jay Kay said she suffered severe head injuries and third­degree burns to the upper part of her body. Arnold was assaulted after she and Richardson got into an argument and Richardson was arrested on Nov. 2, police said. 

•The 
men's basketball Blue and Gold Game will be at 8 p.m. at the JACC. Practice is at 6:30p.m. Tickets are available in the dining halls and at the JACC from 6 


p.m. Proceeds will go to the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
•Students 
Teaching Students will hold an in­formational meeting at 8 p.m. in the Seminar Room of the esc. 

•Law 
School Right to Life will present the Law School the video "Life: The Way of Champions" Thursday at 12:25 p.m. in room 115 The video features members of the Washington Redskins and the Buffalo Bills in Super Bowl XXVI. 

•The 
ND/SMC Croatian Club is looking for students and faculty interested in organizing humanitarian aid for Croatian and Bosnian refugees, or joining the club, call Anthony at 273-2889. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1620: Forty-one Pilgrims aboard the Mayflower, anchored off Massachusetts, signed a compact calling for a "body politick" to enact "just and equal laws." 

• 
In 1889: Washington became the 42nd state. 

• 
In 1918: Fighting in World War I came to an end with the signing of an armistice between the Allies and Germany. 

• 
In 1942: During World War II, Germany completed its occupation of France. 

• 
In 1972: The U.S. Army turned over its base at Long Bihn to the South Vietnamese army, symbolizing the end of direct 


U.S. military involvement in the Vietnam War. 
• In 1987: Boris Yeltsin, who had criticized the slow pace of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's reforms, was dismissed as Moscow Communist Party chief. 
Wednesday, November 11, 1992 The Observer page 3 
HPC to circulate petitions in dorms Clark: Liberalism cou 
By BEVIN KOVALIK News Writer 
Molly O'Neill, student body vice president, asked the Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) last night to circulate petitions throughout the dorms to make The Observer fee of $6 per semester an optional expense for students. 
The reason for the petition was to determine who is un­happy with the printing of L. Clifford Cheney's guest column in The Observer on Nov. 5, ac­cording to O'Neill. 
"I don't think that this fee should be mandatory because students should have a choice as to whether or not they want to receive The Observer, just as they can freely decide to pay for The New York Times," she said. 
"If they don't agree with the journalism being practiced," O'Neill added, "then students shouldn't have to pay for something that is inappropri­ate." 
The Observer fee is currently assessed through the Office of Student Accounts. 
"Should this go into effect, The Observer will have to fig­ure out other ways to fund the paper and to monitor distribu­tion," O'Neill said. 
"I agree 100 percent with what Molly said because this incident was not freedom of speech and it offended a lot of people," added Marianne Ravry, HPC co-chair. 
Gretchen Ganc, president of Farley Hall, said that O'Neill should not interfere with free­dom of speech by proposing an optional fee for The Observer because "whether or not a per­son chooses to read the articles in the paper is his or her own choice." 
"This is Molly's option and if she wishes to condone it, I sup­port her," said Jason Coyle, HPC co-chair. If students pay for the paper, they are owners of the paper, he said. Similarly, if someone owns stock in a company, that person would always have the option to sell it off if unhappy with it, he added. 
In other business: 
• Tim Pepper, president of the AIDS Awareness club of Notre Dame, asked HPC to donate funds to the club because the University clubs were allocated 
Susanne 
Treloar 
Happy 2lg! 
Finally caught __1 up with your I.D. Love, Mom, Dad, Mike, Allyson & Tom 
P.S. Rome must have 

money before this club came into existence. 
"I have been funding the club myself," he said. Jason Coyle, HPC co-chair, said that the budget committee would vote and make a decision. 
The AIDS awareness club is a service group that fund-raises for AIDS research and area hospices, Pepper said. "Also with the necessary funds we can establish an office so stu­dents can have somewhere to go directly for questions," he said. 
• Keenan Review producer Sam Pennington asked HPC to donate $3,000 to the Keenan Review, so organizers can make it a quality program this year and not have to cut back on souvenirs and publicity, he said. The operating budget this year for the Keenan review is $12,000, according to Penning­ton. 
HPC has funded the Keenan Review in the past and has $15,000 set aside for special activities involving three or more dorms, according to Coyle. He said the budget committee would consider the funding. 
endanger American family 
By CORA SANDBERG News Writer 
The philosophy of liberalism endangers the American family, Ann Clark said last night in a panel discussion at Saint Mary's focusing on contemporary issues of the American family. 
Clark, chair of the philosophy department, spoke on "Family: Placebo for Panic?" and dis­cussed the meaning of "the traditional family" that was the object of much debate in the presidential election. The "traditional" family of the 1950s was the result of indus­trialization, the Great Depres­sion, and WWII, said Clark. 
It is ironic that the political push for "family values" disre­gards the evolution of the family form, she continued. 
The philosophy of liberalism centers around the notion of self-contained characteristics, which endangers the family, said Clark. In her view, char­acteristics are not self-con­tained but are dependant on in­teraction with others. For ex­ample, "You make your gender as you live it, where you are," she said. 
She said that this contradic­tion of liberaliam is evident in "the difference between what liberalism promises and what it delivers." 
Mary Caputi's, assistant pro­fessor of political science, also spoke on "The Problem of Gender Archetypes" and fo­cused on the psychological theories concerning gender dif­ferences. 
The metaphor proposed by psycho-analysts such as Freud relates masculine characteris­tics with the mind, laws and regulation and relates feminine characteristics with irrationality and unconscious desires, she said. 
One post-modern critics as­sociate the male with serious­ness, while the female is asso­ciated with laughter, said Ca­puti. The panel discussion, "Feminism and the Family: Current Debates," was part of the week long event "Mary Wollstonecraft's 'A Vindication of the Rights of Woman,' A Cel­ebration at 200 Years." The student panel "A Revolution in Manners" will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the Stapelton Lounge. 

Columbus faced 'collision of cultures' 
quire in human past we always face a dilemma," he said. So­ciety mistakenly applies its 20th century ideals and morals to individuals of the past, without understanding their point of view. 
"Legends that stubbornly cling like barnacles on the side of a boat," said O'Connell, like Queen Isabella selling her jew­els to finance the expedition, are partly responsible for these misconceptions. 
Columbus died with his own misconception that his greatest discovery was a failure, he concluded. 
O'Connell's lecture concluded the celebration of the SOOth anniversary of Columbus' landing in the New World. 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 


By KIM ST. CLAIR News Writer 
The problems between the Spaniards and the Native Americans that arose during Columbus' discovery of the New World resulted from a "collision of cultures," said Fr. Marvin O'Connell in a lecture at Saint Mary's Tuesday. 
There are many misconcep­tions about Columbus, Spain and the Catholic Church in the 17th century, said O'Connell, professor of history at Notre Dame, in his lecture, "Columbus, Catholicism, and a New World." 
For example, although Columbus' treatment of the Native Americans has come into question recently, many Spaniards actually supported the rights of the Native Americans, he said. 
History never repeats itself, said O'Connell. "When we in-
been Great! BE PART Of THE MRGICIIII * A FEATURE FILI'Vl * SUNBEAM PRODUCTIONS "RUDY" IS THE STIIY Of IN£ tiiiN' MRN ••o TILLDWEI MIS DIEAM TO 11£11 TU Ill£ INI 5DLD. WANTED: 20,000 FIGHTING IRISH FANS SUNDRY, NDUEMBER 15, 1992 COM£ TO NOTRE DRM£ STROIUM RT II :30 R.M. (plan Ia stou until 5:00 PMl end be port of a major mallan picture. Eacll participant witt be Issued • raffle ticket Ia be eligible for tho prizes below. Help us bU showing uour support for IU fi5HTIN5 IRISH. Pleoso cell the halllne 219/239-8195 for further Information. rLERH DO NOT CIILL THE UNIUERSITYI  The Notre Dame Men's Basketball Team presents the Blue • Gold Game at the J.A.C.C. This Wednesday, November II Tickets $2 Tickets available Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday at the Dining Halls, or Wednesday 6p.m.@ J.A.C.C Practice 6:30 p.m. Game 8:00 p.m. You're invited to both! Benefits Neighborhood Study Help Program  
WIN ••• WIN ••• WIN lUJ GARNO PRIZE ~ 93wm COUATEs/::~:T££~ ~!;~~WORLD • ~ FIRST PRIZE 2 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS TO TH£ NOTRE DAM£/USC GAM£ IN LOS ANGELES WITH ON£ ROOM FOR TWO NIGHTS AT THE CENTURY CITY MARRIOTT • SECOND, THIRD AND FOURTH­CASH PRIZES 121 -Sl ooo.oo SOI.ffiiBENO (4)-S500.DD -A\amOff. (10)-SIOO.OO '· ,. •· FIFTH AND SIHTH PRIZE ON£ WHK£NO GETAWAY FOR TWO AT THE MARRIOTT ANO RESIDENCE INN IN SOUTH BEND SEUENTH PRIZE 4-DINNERS FOR TWO AT LASALLE GRILL FIRST 1800 PEOPLE IN THE DOOR R£C£1U£ R FR££ wRuoy• T-SHIRT.  
Dr. Herb True Th~ 'W(Q)Il'M*~ Gll'~m~~~~ ~cdlll.ll ..lm~lril®ll' ... Will be speaking at the CAPP Honor Society meeting on November 11, 1992 at 7pm in the Hesburgh Library Lounge. He will be speaking on the importance of interpersonal skills in today's world. Communication is of vital importance and w1thout good communication skills, a key ci1aracteristic employers look for, it is very difficult to got a job. Dr. True has delivered over 3000 :,peeches all around the world. Come join us! All are welcome to attend. Wednesday November 11 7pm Hesburgh Library Lounge  
lhls perl of lhe film IS ut In the 1970's, so dig out lhos• wide lapels. trenchcoats. Nauu P-cuets. dart teded jeans and pleose no neon or baseball caps. Coli 219/239-1895 for more detailed Info. You'll be asked to stand. cheer. shout fer Notre Deme. Oon't foraet to dress wermly. We look forauard to seeing you there. 'o IRtSNIII .........,............, ................. ,...........................,........ -··· .................. ,..,.., ..... -·· ... ,.... ,..... ""' ......., ...,......... •lit ..........................., ... ........ ••• •• • ........... ,, ••• , ••••• ,, ,.,, f'lllll tfe ••• l•tttftll.llt lOll II ••• fl .. lfll It I I llf etoooo .lit I' ••0100, .Ifill II.......................................................................... , .......................... ••••• •• ftl\tt• '" •••• ···­...................... . ••t •I ••• ••'''''•••••t '"''"'''" ••••''''' tl •••·•• tr' I '••• •'• •• ••'''"" "'''" ........ -··· ··········· ····· •""·•···· '• .. ,............ •"••• ....... "' .. ,..........., •• ..... '••••n '""•'• •''''· lilt•••• •·• ·•• •••• ••••••••••·"t tT ••• •••"'•~••• ••• ••••••••• ••'•• •f lllt•e•• •'''" 1 ltlt.lf, ltl•••'•• •••et er lltll' ••••• I ISit.ll . ......... ...... • , ........, ••• '''·''· ........................~ ••. !1.11 ......... ...... ., .... ······· .. ''····  

Wednesday, November 11 , 1992

page4 The Observer 
EC commissioner reinstated 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­Ray MacSharry, who resigned a week ago as the European Community's farm commis­sioner, was reinstated Tuesday to continue critical trade talks with the United States. 
MacSharry had given up his duties abruptly, complaining privately of interference from the community's chief execu­tive, Jacques Delors. 
Delors, whose native France has been most intransigent in the talks, was accused of ma­neuvering behind the scenes to try to prevent additional con­cessions to the United States. He denied blocking a deal, and over the weekend blamed Washington for the failed ne­gotiations. 
Washington, demanding deeper cuts in the subsidies the trading bloc pays to its 9 million farmers, threatened last week to impose stiff tariffs on French 
Roemer 
continued from page 1 
tories, he said. 
Reforming Congress and re­ducing the federal deficit are other top priorities in Roemer's upcoming term. 
"We need to cut back on ex­penditures and the number and size of committees in Congress, making it more accountable to the people," he said. 
Bush 
continued from page 1 
blueprint can be compared. 
OMB officials are "hoping to box Clinton in so he can't play games," said one lobbyist who has talked with budget office officials and who spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
The OMB official said Bush's final budget will probably be about 200 pages long, as op­posed to the 2 1/2-inch-thick document that is normally submitted. It will likely be re­leased in early January. 
It will show that with no ad­ditional changes, spending will remain under the caps required 
Correction 
In an article in yesterday's edition, The Observer mis­spelled the name of Professor Moira Fergusen from the University of Nebraska. The article also incorrectly paraphrased Fergusen. It should have read, "Woll­stonecraft illuminated the project of self determina­tion ... " The Observer regrets the errors. 

white wines and other goods if the fight was not resolved by early December. 
The United States claims the supports cost U.S. producers $1 billion a year in lost sales. 
MacSharry met with Delors and other senior EC officials late Tuesday to thrash out the community's position in the trade dispute, and apparently agreed to resume his negotiat­ing duties. 
Britain, which currently holds the EC presidency, welcomed MacSharry's reinstatement, and trade secretary Michael Heseltine said "we want the talks to start and to be a success." 
On Monday, EC foreign min­isters urged the resumption of negotiations with the United States quickly to avert an all­out trade war. 
France, Europe's biggest farm produce~ has opposed any 
Roemer said he is and has always been a major proponent of cutting plans for a space sta­tion from the budget agenda. 
"The space station is too costly and unreasonable at this time," he said. "Clinton is for the station, and I may have to battle against him over it." 
Roemer also plans to work on a crime bill to allocate more money for community police ef­forts in his district as well as work with the local mayors to discuss ideas to better the 
by the 1990 budget agreement, said the OMB official. A White House official and a congressional aide, also speaking anonymously, con­firmed that the plan would merely list the spending caps. 
It is also likely to include a brief message from budget di­rector Richard Darman defin­ing the problem of the growing federal deficit, which in fiscal 1992 hit a record $290.2 bil­lion. 
Missing will be proposals to cut the capital gains tax rate, shave the growth of Medicare and other benefit programs, and increase law enforcement spending -proposals that have characterized spending plans Bush has submitted in the past. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,& 
CHRISTMAS 4 
move to give in to the United States. Britain, Germany and others are pressing for a compromise with Washington. 
France is the EC's largest agricultural producer and has been especially protective of its farmers with elections ap­proaching in March. 
It urged the community to hold firm against Washington and draw up a list of retaliatory sanctions in case of a trade war. 
The farm negotiations are considered vital to save a world trade pact among the 108 na­tions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT. 
The fight over oil seed sup­ports and a broader disagree­ment over EC farm subsidies in general have blocked agree­ment in the 6-year-old Uruguay Round negotiations, sponsored by GATT and aimed at over­hauling the world trading sys­tem. 
community. 
Roemer added that timing is everything for Clinton, saying, "What Clinton needs to do to get things going once he's in office is to sit down with Congress in November and De­cember and outline his plans and goals." 
The country needs also needs to realize that it take time to put programs into effect. "The American people can't allow their expectations to be too high," he said. 
When Presidents Reagan, Carter, and Ford left office, they all submitted lengthy, full­blown budgets that included fa­vorite proposals to make changes in tax and spending policies. 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
'1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR THE 
MEMBER WHO CAlLS! 
No obligation. No cost. You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO 
just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
wed  nov 18  8:10pm  
thurs  nov 19  8:10pm  
fri  nov 20  8:10pm  


JJJJJJJJJ~~~\\\\\\ 

sat nov 21 8:10pm 

II sun nov 22 3:10pm
ttiiiiiittiiii
Gladieux 
TRAVEL 
Top Ground Gainer of "68 Has Gone To The Air 


Sponsored by the LIIFortune lnfoTJIIIIIion Desk.
1\.-,b Gladieux 
234-6636 

Washin tonHall 
~

For more lnformollon cllll 239-1121 
ARTS& ~ CRAFTS IIIII FAIR ~ 
LaFortune Student Ce11ter: Lower Lounge, Main Lounge, 


ftt'\t\f'\t\1\""'lfl\
& Ballroom 

FRIDAY, 
NOVEMBERJJ 8AM-6PM 
SATURDAY, 
NOVEMBER 14 
8AM-7PM 
Stop by ant/ get your Christmas shopping done early! 
French Ministers to be tried in AIDS-tainted blood case 
PARIS (AP) -Parliament began moving Tuesday to bring three former Cabinet ministers to trial in France's AIDS-tainted blood scandal, apparently re­sponding to a demand from President Francois Mitterrand. 
French citizens have been outraged by trials that showed the state-run National Center for Blood Transfusions know­ingly distributed blood tainted with the AIDS virus to about 1,200 hemophiliacs. Nearly all became HIV positive. About 300 have died. 
Prosecutors said the motive was to avoid the cost of import­ing clean supplies or buying expensive U.S. technology to decontaminate blood. 
Four lower-ranking officials including Michel Garretta, former director of the state-run National Center for Blood Transfusions, have been con­victed in the case. 
Mitterrand said in a televised interview Monday that the High Court of Justice should be con­voked to hear the case against three of his ministers who were in office in 1985. 
The court, an ad hoc group composed of members of par­liament, is the only body that can try Cabinet officials for negligence of duty. It has never been convoked in the constitu­tion's 34-year history. 
Socialist and opposition deputies agreed Tuesday that the lower house's 12 members of the court should be chosen Nov. 18. They will join 12 members from the conserva­tive-led Senate to comprise the full panel. 
The three accused ministers are former Premier Laurent Fabius, a Mitterrand protege who now leads the Socialist Party; former Social Affairs Minister Georgina Dufoix and former Health Minister Ed­mond Herve. 
The National Assembly, dom­inated by Socialists, had previ­ously refused to convene the court. 

SMC Students Interested in Writing for 
The Observer 
The SMC computer can now send stories to ND office. 
Contact: Amy Greenwood-news 273-2993, Nicole McGrath-sports 284-5193, Mara Divis-accent 284-5254 or Anna Marie Tabor-editor 284-5440 for more information. 
1992-93 SEASON ~ 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION ~ ~ Ci 
&THEATRE P R E S E N T S theatre 
RESERVED SEATS: $7 STrOm &SE\IOR CITIZE\ DISCOL"\TS ARE AniLABlE \HD.. THrRS. AXD 5[\ TICKETS ARE A\'AilABLE AT THE L\ FORmE TICKET OffiCE. .\IasrerCard and \"isa orders call: 239·81~8 

HOW TO CHOOSE AN ARTS & LETTERS MAJOR Thursday, November 12, 1992 
6:30.. 7:30 P.M.in the Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Dean Harold Attridge, Associate Dean Dian Murray and College Fellow Frank Bonello 
---~---------~-----­
~-----------------. 

Wednesday, November 11 , 1992 The Observer pageS 

""~~\'"l.c--11"'~1'1(' r.r:'T 
Bush fires official who searched files 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Seeking to end a simmering political embarrassment, President Bush on Tuesday dismissed the State Department official who initiated a pre-election search for passport records of Gov. Bill Clinton and Ross Perot. 
Bush telephoned Acting Sec­retary of State Lawrence Ea­gleburger and accepted Eagle­burger's recommendation that Assistant Secretary of State Elizabeth Tamposi be relieved of her duties, department spokesman Richard Boucher said. 
Other officials said Bush's call was prompted by a story in Tuesday's editions of the Wash­ington Post alleging that, after searching files for information on Clinton, department officials looked for material on Perot as well. 
Eagleburger ordered an in­vestigation Oct. 19 after press reports of the search of Clin­ton's files. It was later disclosed a search of the files of Clinton's mother also had been ordered. 
Suspicions about the de­partment's motives were heightened because the Bush campaign escalated efforts to discredit Clinton by citing his draft history and his role as an anti-war activist in Britain. 
Perot's press secretary Sharon Holman had no comment, but the Post quoted Perot as denouncing the search as "a gross abuse of federal power." 
"Somebody ought to hold them accountable for it," Perot told the Post. 
In Little Rock, Ark., Clinton spokesman George Stephanopoulos said, "Clearly this is a matter of serious con­cern.... There was a lot of abuse of power during this election." 
"This is a good step," Stephanopoulos said of Tam­posi's dismissal, but he added, "We need a full report." 
Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., said Eagleburger assured him Tuesday that the State Department inspector general was investigating both the Clinton and Perot file searches and promised that the full report would be sent to the committee in a few days. 
According to a National Archives memo, the search of Perot's records was carried out by Richard McClevey. 


Tues: 500/o off Almost Everything The Best Way to Start Your Week 
Wed: You Know What's Happening!!! Bring Us a Penny for Your Thoughts•.. $3 with Student I.D. 
Thurs: Dollar Night & Dancing Not Just R & B and Rock 

II STADIUM 0 I 8JACC II 4-way 11"'1 ~Edison Ill 
EXm ~-lj l I 
~ishawak&Ave( re ll I 4-11501.tshawab~~ J 

1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend 288·0285 

Dr. Marye Hacker, clinical director of Memorial Hospital, speaks to members of Notre Dame AIDS Awareness about the mystreious AIDS virus. 
Negotiators say attacks disrupt peace 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Israeli and Arab negotiators warned Tuesday that rocket and ar­tillery duels along the Israel­Lebanon border were disrupt­ing their peace talks. 
The Bush administration urged all sides to hold their fire so as not to endanger the ne­gotiations, and blamed Iran for supporting the Hezbollah guerrillas firing at Israel from Lebanon. 
"Those parties which are committed to the process ... should make every effort to re­sist the negative influence ex­erted by those opposed to peace, including the Hezbollah and its main sponsor, Iran," said State Department spokesman Richard Boucher. 
Boucher did not single out any other party for criticism. Israel did. 
"We know that Syria has in­fluence in Lebanon, and, among other things, on Hezbollah, and the manner in which it wields this influence is monitored very closely by us," said chief Israeli negotiator Itamar Rabinovich. 
Both Rabinovich and his Syr­ian opposite, Muwaffiq al-Allaf, promised that the violence wouldn't deter them from their search for peace. But al-Ailaf noted that there was "a general negative impact" of the reports from the region which couldn't be ignored. 
And he justified the Hezbollah attacks, describing them as legitimate resistance to Israel's occupation of southern Le­banon. "As long as occupation is existing there, it constitutes an aggression against the Le­banese people," he said. 
Israel maintains troops and an allied Lebanese militia in a narrow zone in south Lebanon. 

Korean MIA's may be in alive in Russia 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The top Republican on the Senate Committee on POW-MIA Affairs said Tuesday that Americans missing in action from the Ko­rean War could still be alive in­side Russia, and he accused Russia of stonewalling U.S. ef­forts to find out just what hap­pened to them. 
~.....-......... 
Consenting Aduhs R 
5:15, 7:30. 9:45 
Candyrnan R 
5:00, 7:00, 9:15 
The Last of the Mohicans R 
4:45, 7:15,9:30 
• --=~~~=-­1'\0RfftU C'fnTIR FOR111t <fl RT s  
The Saint Mary's Department of Communication, Dance & Theatre and Department of Music present An Evening of PERA Fri.-Sat., Nov. 13-14, 8 p.m., Sun., Nov. 15, 7:30p.m. The Uttle Theatre. Tickets $6/$5  Wed.-Fri., Nov. 18-20, 8 p.m., Dalloway's Coffeehouse TALKING WITH ... by Jane Martin A Saint Mary's Communication, Dance & Theatre production. Tickets $1-on sale at the door only Saturday, Nov. 21,8 p.m., O'LaughlinAuditorium THE INK SPOTS "If/ Didn't Care," "I Don't Want to Set the World on Fire," ''You Always Hurt the One You Love" Tickets $12/$10  
Tickets for events on sale at the Saint Mary's . e--­box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. samtMary's Colle~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME· INDIANA  

Sen. Bob Smith, R-N.H., also said the U.S. government "has covered up what it knew (about Korean War POWs) through a pattern of denial, misleading statements and, in some cases, lies." 
His comments came at the committee's first hearing held specifically on U.S. servicemen missing or held prisoner from the Korean War. The committee is scheduled to go out of ex­istence at the end of December. 
Smith released what he said was the most comprehensive compilation of U.S. government policy and intelligence infor­mation that has been known about the fate of men missing from the Korean War and what the government did to fmd out about them. 
"It is a document that shows in explicit detail that the gov­ernment of North Korea did not return a large number of American servicemen at the end of the war and that some of the men left behind were sent to Communist China and to the Soviet Union," he said. 

Newly Remodeled 
Notre Dame Apartments 
Now available for the 2nd semester and '93 ~ '94 school year Call232 ~ 8256 for info and scheduled showings 

pageS The Observer 

The Observer/Sue Kehias 
Palm trees and turkey 
John Anthony of Anthony Travel distrubutes tickets for the upcoming USC trip. Many students have chosen to spend their Thanksgiving break in Caifornia to cheer for the Fighting Irish. 
Navy's rebuff of court questions Constitution 
SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) -The Navy's refusal to give a gay sailor his job back despite a federal judge's order to rein­state him has raised the ques­tion: Can the military defy the courts? 
Lawyers for Keith Meinhold sought a contempt-of-court ruling from a federal judge Tuesday, a day after he was turned away from Moffett Naval Air Station despite a court order to reinstate him. 
Before the contempt-of-court request, U.S. District Judge Terry Hatter Jr. denied a gov-
O.OSED ClASSES 11/10/92 
ACCT  2J2  03  2862  
ACCT  2J2  OS  2671  
ACCT  480  02  2994  
AI!RO  441L  01  2859  
APAM  liM  01  409S- 
APAM  419Z  01  
APAM  tS4  01  3S36  
AMSr  493  01  4161  
ANill  ll9  01  3934  
ANill  tS4  01  34S4  
AROl  .11188  01  0420  
AROl  S98l'  01  0269  
ARID  169  01  3150  
ARID  496  01  36S4  
ARST  IJ4S  01  0146  
ARST  2t2S  01  2lS6  
BA  464  01  3111  
BA  490  04  :1439  
BA  490  01  0677  
rom  as  01  4196  
rom  436  'ol  4197- 
rom  440  01  
ECON  4SO  01  374S  
ENOL  :IZS  01  ton  
ENOL  37.lll  01  4217  
ENOL  412C  01  4227  
ENOL  .Cl48  01  4713  
ENOL  4161  01  4228  
ENOL  4161  01  4634  
I!NGL  417  01  4245  
I!NGL  422  01  1022  
ENOL  4261'  01  4230  
ENGL  4338  01  3784  
I!NGL  440  01  4233  
ENGL  4558  01  4234  
ENGL  461C  01  4236  
ENGL  4628  01  4237  
ENGL  5138  01  4220  
ENGL  522A  01  4218  
FIN  231  II  1818  
FIN  231  09  lOll  
FIN  231  12  1714  
FIN  231  OS  2938  
FIN  475  01  2739  
GOVf  34Zf  03  1194  
GSC  498  01  1240  
HlST  309A  01  4299  
HlST  IDA  01  4302  
HIST  36SA  01  4290  
lUST  403A  01  4291  
HIST  454A  01  4311  
lUST  460A  01  4312  
HlST  699  01  1122  
ME  49flA  01  4444  
Ml  4D  01  37&S  
Ml  434  01  4576  
MSA  546  01  4438  
MSA  547  01  1815  
MUS  220  04  4138  
MUS  220  02  11199  
MUS  226  01  0032  
PHIL  246  01  2483  
PHIL  !47  01  4338  
PHIL  2111  01  276S  
PliiL  26S  01  0387  
PlUL  697  01  47!4  
PSY  375  01  4360  
PSY  5381!  01  474)  
RLST  213  20  95lll  
RLST  240  l4  95!4  
RLST  240  26  9526  
RLST  )16  38  9538  
RLST  lSI  42  9542  
soc  234  01  3556  
1111!0  m  01  1755  
1111!0  36%  01  lt786  
1111!0  26S  01  0214  
1HI'R  276  53  97S3  



ernment request to overturn his Friday ruling reinstating Meinhold to his job as a sonar crew instructor at the Navy base just south of San Fran­cisco. 
"The Navy, like the rest of the Armed Forces, are under civilian control and are re­quired to comply with all lawful orders," said Christopher Rudd, one of Meinhold's attorneys. 
Citing the military's ban on homosexuals in the service, the Navy involuntarily but honor­ably discharged Meinhold in August after he said he was gay 
Study Abroad in Ireland Information session: Film of Ireland TONIGHT 7:00p.m. Game Room, Haggar College Center, SMC Applications still available. 

TEAM TARGET SHOOTING CONTEST 

CO·REC TEAMS: 2 WOMEN AND 2 MEN PER TEAM OPEN TO ALL UNDERGRADS & GRAD STUDENTS TO BE HELD AT THE STADIUM FIRING RANGE 
ENTER GATE 14 
REGISTER AT THE RecSports OFFICE IN TilE JACC 
CONTEST TO BE HELD MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16 4-6PM TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17 4·6PM 
FiltST PLACE TEAM WINS DINNER AT X:IBNTUaY PltlE:D Ci!-UCKllN 
CONDUCTEDBYNOTREDAMENAVALROTC MEMBERS OF ROTC RIFLE SQUAD IiQI.ELIGI8LE 

NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
on national television. 
Other homosexuals also have been banned from the military, but President-elect Clinton could change that policy. 
"This is so crazy," Meinhold, 30, said Tuesday from his Palo Alto home. "I had more faith in the Department of Defense bu­reaucrats in Washington than this." 
Meinhold contends his sexual preference shouldn't be an is­sue. His lawsuit says the Navy violated his constitutional rights by discharging him because he is gay. 
Wednesday, November 11 , 1992 

NY judge arrested 
NEW YORK (AP)-Judge Sol Wachtler stepped down Tues­day as New York state's top jurist, agreeing to house arrest and monitoring by an electronic bracelet three days after being accused of threatening an ex­lover. 
Wachtler, 62, who before his downfall was mentioned as a possible gubernatorial candi­date or U.S. Supreme Court justice, was solemn and humble as he agreed to a no-bail ar­rangement that includes a promise to stay away from the woman and her daughter. 
He showed emotion -his eyes welling -only when fed­eral Magistrate Judge Sharon Grubin complimented "the wisdom you have shown on this bench." 
His attorney later announced Wachtler's resignation, while insisting that the charges "bear no relation to his role in the court." 
"As much as possible, he wishes to prevent his situation 
The Observer 
SMC Sports Reporters Meeting Haggar Game Room Thursday, November 12 at 6:30p.m. Mandatory for staff and new reporters are welcome. Call Nicole McGrath for more information at 284-5193 
~ \~ wss Lettice Dou$ ~ 
JULlP 
®[f)~©a~f!. ®trl!JJOO>~OOtr [f)lruG©~ 
$10.50 Matinees 
*Lovag,e..~e 
b that u.C 
her \(out\' a knOC 
"INTOJi~~ 
FUN\ r.w}t 
. Entcruinrnent o 
''HIL~\UO 
USA TODA~ t 
"The br\\\\;~ comeG~ear;, oftheB~~ 
Morris Civic Auditorium November 13-14-15, 1992 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m., Sunday 1:30 p.m. 

i\lR~t~:~~ 
IS
LB~C$~~
,,,<''\'~>· Tickets: $16.50 to $38.50 ~1\~~\~~~t~ i"l y. ($2 Student Discount Evenings) THF .~WARD~ ;\\~~ ~ "-~otv-"
pETER.S r-..~~), Box Office open Mon. through Fri. , D!REC'fED B\ ~\-~~f\-10 a.m.· 5 p.m., until curtain time on show days. 
M 1 cHi\ For tickets, call 235-9190 
MasterCard & VISA Accepted Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts 

A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
from harming the institution he reveres and the extraordinary judges and staff who serve it," the statement said. "Chief Judge Wachtler is therefore re­signing from the court." 
FBI agents arrested Wachtler on Saturday on a Long Island freeway, and he had been under a suicide watch at a hospital. But a psychiatrist told the court that Wachtler was not likely to harm himself or others, or to flee. 
When the magistrate ques­tioned whether there was a need for an electronic bracelet, 
U.S. Attorney Michael Chertoff said it was necessary to ensure "adequate protection for vic­tims who have received rather strong threats." 
"At this point, our motto is, 'Better safe than sorry,"' he said. 
"The notion of his being a danger to another human being is simply non-existent," replied Wachtler's attorney, Charles Stillman. 

r---------------------------------------------------------­
Environment 
Wednesday, November 11, 1992 page7 
Smoke, acid rain 'eating away' at Mexico City 
MEXICO CITY (AP) -Voracious smog is eating 16th-century buildings and other treasures of the Spanish heritage in this former city of the Aztecs. 
From the soot-stained National Cathedral to the dirty pillar of the Angel of Independence, no monument has escaped the gritty assault in what is considered the world's most polluted metropolis. 
Experts say auto, factory and other emissions in the city of 16 million people will do more damage to historical landmarks in this decade alone than was done in the previous four centuries. 
"Smoke, acid rain, car exhaust, wind-borne dust and fecal matter -they've all combined to make a potent concoction, and it's literally eating away at our national monuments," said Ricardo Contreras, a preservationist. 
"It's much worse here than in Athens," where the Parthenon and other ancient structures face similar problems, he said. 
Contreras spent a smoggy day atop the marble dome of the classical-style Palace of Fine Arts, cleaning 'tear stains' from the mournful faces of statues of the Muses. 
"The faces are streaked with dirt and soot," said Contreras, who stood on a wooden scaffold above the roaring traffic, scrubbing at the grime. "Just as soon as we clean them, they become filthy again. 
"Fifteen years ago, it was lot easier keeping this building clean. Factory smoke, car exhaust, even ozone contamination is on the rise, and it's having a noticeable effect." 
Jorge Hernandez, the city historian, said sadly: "Our statues are becoming mutants. They're changing. There's one statue in front of the Hotel de Cortes, and that poor guy doesn't even have arms because of the smog." 
Mexico City recorded some of its worst pollution last winter, when the volcano-ringed valley trapped ozone and carbon dioxide at nearly four times accepted U.S. levels. Skyscrapers were barely visible blocks away, factories closed and cars were ordered off the streets. 
Window washers enjoyed a boom cleaning glass­sheathed skyscrapers, but the smog was a deadly chemical bath for older structures built of stone. 
"Many colonial buildings dating to the 16th century are seeing heavy damage," Contreras said. 
Downtown Mexico City has dozens of Spanish colonial buildings whose red volcanic stone, tezontle, has beeome grimy. 
Some of the worst damage shows on the cornices of the old stone Post Office and the imposing Franz Mayer Museum, and on dozens of pitted and pocked statues. 
Corrosion is particularly advanced at the Metropolitan Cathedral on the capital's vast central square. The twin towers and golden cupola are coated with soot, their deterioration aided by pigeon droppings that release sulfuric acid with the rains. 
"Look at the four apostles," said Jesus Ortiz Salomon, a cathedral guide, pointing to the white marble statues on the facade. "They have to keep cleaning them because of the damage from the smog and the pigeons." 
Fernando Pineda Gomez, director of cathedral restoration, said the vibration from traffic around the square has opened cracks in the cathedral's stonework that are made worse by auto exhaust. 
"Contaminants in the air have coated the entire building in a thick crust, and now whole chunks of stone weakened by this soot are peeling off and falling," he said. "It's really an all-out attack. 
"The cathedral is more than 400 years old and has survived every tribulation imaginable: ., invasions, storms, earthquakes, floods, even fire. Yet smog is one of the greatest threats facing our 
cathedral today." 
Pineda said the limestone used in building the cathedral and mearby structures centuries ago is particularly vulnerable. Workers have replaced some roofing stones and taken down statues, including a life-size bishop whose face had been eaten away. 
"We can't do much more than that," he said. 
The historian, Hernandez, noted that "this cathedral was built long before the American forefathers even arrived on the Mayflower," and said ofthe statues: 
"When they lose their faces, we lose part of our history, our national memory. Future generations won't even know who our heroes were.'' 

Only leap of 
.

consciousness can save us 
By STEPHEN ZAVESTOSKI 
Environment Editor 
Over-population, polluted water, polluted air, the greenhouse effect, global warming, desertification, rain forest destruction, world hunger, diminishing natural resources, social crises, endangered species-the list goes on. 
What do all of these have in common? They are part of the present global environmental crisis. I could cite studies, read lists and rationally argue that this crisis truly does exist. But for many today, admittance of the problem has already taken place, which presents us with the next step-solving the crisis. 
If our actions are a process of our attitudes, and our attitudes are a consequence of our knowledge, and our knowledge is a result of the way we think, then ultimately changing the way we act will require changing the way we think. 
But governmental legislation reacts to our actions, it does not anticipate them. Which means changing the way we think in order to change the way we act will take a "leap of consciousness," as environmental activist Jeremy Rifkin refers to it. 
Our leap will have to carry us from the unsustainable Industrial Age to a more friendly, sustainable and life-reaffirming Age of Ecology. 
This leap cannot take place, according to Rifkin, until we are ready to do battle with the worldview that gave rise to the crises we face. In other words, we must realize our concepts of science, progress, economics and knowledge are insufficient to sustain life on this earth at an equitable level for all 5 billion of us. 
-Science is not in and of itself bad, but we must refocus our science on reestablishing the community, on using our science to ground ourselves and reattach ourselves to the earth. 
-Progress does not have to be measured materially, we can progress by enhancing the well-being of the community and protecting the environment. 
-Economics must move away from its principles of production/consumption to softer regenerative values and life-sustaining principles. 
-Knowledge today is based on the technical, rational, logical, calculable and mechanical. We must rely more on relevatory knowledge by opening up instead of closing ourselves off. 
Affecting these changes can be accomplished making a self-aware choice to reparticipate in the body of life-the self and the environment. 
As Rifkin says, "we can maintain the T and bring it together in a new relationship with the 'other.'" 
Only, we will not know when this change has taken place. According to Rifkin, "a worldview is a worldview when you don't know it's a world view." 
Rather than simply being an issue, the environment will have to become a way of life. We may never be able to return the earth to its natural state, but we can at least improve our relationship with it and with each other. 
; ,, 

Greenpeace boat continues tracking Japanese plutonium 
[ 
' : ' ' . English Channel. It said the
l 
rammed its ship, the Solo, in the 

lliillilithe escort ship Shikishima 
Japanese warship's helicopter landing decks were damaged, 
reported no injuries.I~~~~··········~li~lv~ili!•#.)~ J~q)~l~gnm~~ The Solo's captain, Albert 
Kuiken, said the Shikishima was badly dented on the starboard side. He said a side railing also was ripped off and described • In Tokyo today, Japan's coast
liiliiiliiiiiiillill.damage to the Solo as light.
•guard issued a statement saying 
. the Solo, after following at a close distance, ran into the Shikishima's rear starboard twice despite warnings and 

•evasive maneuvers by the ship.
The statement said the colli­sion took place Sunday morning in international waters north of the French peninsula of Brittany. 
PARIS (AP) -Despite a colli­sion with an armed escort ship, a Greenpeace boat stuck close today to a freighter taking highly toxic plutonium to Japan. 
Japan is shipping 1.7 tons of plutonium home to fire up a new generation of nuclear fast­breeder reactors. Greenpeace opposes the shipment and is tracking the freighter Akatsuki Maru along its secret route. 
Greenpeace says the pluto­nium poses huge dangers ranging from a spill to an attack by terrorists seeking nuclear bomb-making material. 
On Sunday, Greenpeace said, 
"The Shikishima suffered damage on the rails of its landing platform and other ar­eas," the statement read. It said there were no injuries and that damage to the Japanese ship would not hinder its ability to defend the plutonium freighter. 
It said the Shikishima had protested the Solo's action by radio, and warned the Green­peace ship to keep safe dis­tance. 
A speck of plutonium inhaled can kill a human. It is also the key ingredient in nuclear weapons. Though France insists the shipment is not weapons quality, Greenpeace says it could be used to make 120 crude bombs. 
The Akatsuki Maru left the French port of Cherbourg late Saturday after a day of clashes between security forces and environmentalists. Its voyage home is expected to take two months. 
Greenpeace said the freighter and the Shikishima were sailing southwest in the Atlantic and could reach Portugal's Azores Islands by Wednesday. Japan has not disclosed the route, for security reasons. 
Greenpeace says that, con­sidering the dangers of the cargo, it will not interfere with the Akatsuki Maru's progress. But it plans to track the ship and warn nations when it nears their waters. 
Viewpoint 
page 8 
The Observer 


P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ••••••...•............ David Kinney Advertising Manager •..•...•Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .........••....... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ..•.......... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ..•.•.... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ...............•..•..... David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Take back the Night' march is scheduled 

Newspapers must make distinctions 
Dear Editor: 
On the evening of November 15, organizations from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are sponsoring the "Take Back the Night" March, a march to symbolically reclaim the night from sexual assault and violent attacks. 
In our campus communities, how many of us have not heard someone say to us never walk alone at night? How many of us as freshmen were not told, dur­ing the first few days of coming here, about Rape Road? Unfor­tunately, not many of us could answer these questions, "Not me." 
By these words, I am not en­couraging anyone to do those things that we have been told not to do. Sadly, it is not safe to disregard these words of ad­vice. Thankfully, programs such as the Escort Service and Safewalk have been put into effect so that we are not put in the dilemma of feeling that we cannot go out at 10:00 or 11:00 at night when something has to be done. 
However, I am saying this: if we are ever going to make the night and the streets safe for our younger sisters and broth­ers, for our future children, for the person who just wanted to look at the moon and stars ­we must stand together and retrieve the power that has been taken from us. Then, we will be able to transform our world from a prison to a home. 
We invite you, the students, faculty, and staff, to join us in a show of solidarity for safe Michiana streets. The event begins at 7 p.m. in the LeMans Hall Courtyard of Saint Mary's, and marchers will travel along the main avenue connecting the campuses, to the Grotto at Notre Dame, where there will be a short meditation. The March concludes at the Woman at the Well at Notre Dame. 
The "Take Back the Night" March is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Center for Women's Alliance, Women's Alliance, the Saint Mary's -Notre Dame Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination, Notre Dame Feminist Forum, and Notre Dame Safewalk. 
For more information, call 219/284-4779 or 219/284-5469. 
Catherine Michele Adams Sarah Miyata Co-Directors, Center for Women's Alliance 

DOONESBURY 
Dear Editor: 
As a Jewish prospective grad­uate student I applied to Notre Dame anticipating a mutually supportive inter-faith experi­ence. While expecting a certain lack of familiarity with Jewish history, culture and beliefs, the absolute lack of awareness and sensitivity demonstrated by the printing of the "Jewish Slave Law" article (The Observer, Nov. 5) came as a shock. 
Having worked closely with the Catholic community over the years on peace and justice issues, I know the ignorance 
~nd hate manifest_ in that artic~e IS not representative of Catholic 
how and if Jewish issues are addressed in the Catholic edu­cational system when university journalists are blind to what such an article represents. 
Certainly it can often be diffi­cult to differentiate between censorship and professional discretion. It is the public duty of all newspapers, however, to distinguish between blatant lies and hate literature on the one hand, and factually correct ar­ticles of varying perspectives on the other. It seems that the current incident is providing this lesson. 
It is reassuring to read letters from students and faculty who deplore the content of the aforementioned article. The process of reconciliation would be furthered still by an apology from The Observer. 
Fran Teplitz Institute for International Peace Studies 
Nov. 9, 1992 

Be careful when calling for censorship 

Dear Editor: 

In the Nov. 5, 1992 edition you published a letter from L. Clifford Cheney concerning "Jewish Slave Law". The next day you had to explain why you would publish such an atrocious pack of lies and twisted view of history. 
I won't bother spending much time mentioning the lack of sanity and excess of paranoia Mr. Cheney harbors, my con­cerns are with the Observer. 
I agree with the Viewpoint Editor's point that ALL views must be printed if we are to really have a free society, even those of stark raving lunatics such as Mr. Cheney. 
What bothers me is the label "Guest Columnist." That implies that his views were sought out, or desired by the Editorial Staff. I do not believe such views are in any way in agreement with those of the Editorial Staff. I believe a mistake was made by putting his views in a Guest Columnist category instead of the "letters to the Editor" section where they really belong. 
If I were the Viewpoint Editor, I would also have followed his letter with a disclaimer stating that the views of those writing in do not necessarily represent those of the Observer. 
Those who feel the letter should never have been printed need to be careful about calling for such censorship. For as foul as such views may be, if we give up the right to express even these disgusting opinions, we are opening ourselves up to the same kind of oppression that Mr. Cheney would like to see. 
Professor Barry Baumbaugh Physics Department 
Nov. 9, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

H&Y,GOVERNOR! IA/&,I lA/HATS JCB ON/3-8.JE83I'/? CLEANING UP "PI8 UK£IT M&5SIN M9i!NG!l:N Q BOTH OR.H13AUN6tuOUN/JS? lf/AYS.
1 
OBOTH 
0 
'The most important service rendered by the press is that of educating people to approach printed matter with distrust.' 
Samuel Butler 
You decide, you submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 

Viewpoint
Wed. November 11, 1992 page 9 
Smokers relegated to POW status in 'Stalag 12' 
At halftime during the termi­nal appearance of the '92 ND football team, I invite all so­cially-concerned scholars to visit gate 12 (i.e. Stalag 12). There they will find an encaged group of fans who actually smile at fellow POWs (Prisoners of Wimps). 
Real folk are they -engaged in salubrious, amicable chats with otherwise strangers -tak­ing the progress of that day's match with philosophical as opposed to fanatical interest. 
The diverse exchanges are witty, charitable and of Aris­totelian as opposed to Platonic flavor. A disputation on, say, "Virgil and His Indebtedness to the Politically Correct Catholic Intellectoids" is, on occasion, interspersed with a hushed plea '-ah, hast thou a match?" 
Yes, Stalag 12 of the du Lac POW cage consists of sinners 
i.e. smokers. Whilst Biblical ex­egists have yet to find this "sin" even mentioned in early Gene­sis nor in later Old Testament texts e.g. remarks in re: Sodom and Gomorrah, our new-age enthusiasts have discovered in their PC hearts an eighth Deadly Sin -smoking. 
This "sin" is now proscribed even in the open, wind swept arena of our Jock-Eden, the ND Stadium. 

Professor James J. Carberry 
du Lac's Pariah-in-Residence 
What next we may well ask? Shall we ban our cheerleaders comely displays as probably cause of puerile, prurient thoughts? Or an occasional bit of Billingsgate aimed at officials (and the enemy) when our warriors are judged guilty of a rule infraction? Indeed the pos­sibilities of further fascist lib­
eral concerns regarding evi­dence of Original Sin are now legion. 
"What to do?" asked Lenin. Listen to your hearts. visit Sta­lag 12 at half-time. Give these poor mis-guided souls, impris­oned therein, solace, comfort and Campus Ministry book­matches emblazoned with "Go and smoke no more". then re­turn to your seats, unlighted ci­garette or cigar in mouth as a smokeless prayer on behalf of the poor smoking souls in Sta­lag 12. 
Dr. Carberry is a professor of chemical engineering at Notre Dame. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dade County resident says thanks Despite election results, 
Editor's note: The following was beginning to subside. cia! way. Without our knowl­
abortion fight continues 
originally a letter to Don McNeill, Thanks to you, Sue Cunning­edge they had organized a director of the Center for Social ham, the Center for Social Con­streetside Bar-B-Q of chicken, Concerns cerns and to the many others ribs, potato salad and all the Dear Editor: I have spoken with many who Dear Editor: involved in our Fall Break Pro­trimmings served on two large With the election complete, place greater importance on 
On Saturday morning, mid­gram, a ray of sunshine has picnic tables wedged between America is ready for a prosper­the economy, and, thus, voted way in the Fall Break Program, begun to glimmer in the lives of piles of construction debris as a ous four years in which change Democratic. Yes, the economy I left home early to visit the a few of the most needy of thank you for the work that was will be welcomed. The economy needs revitalization, but many four worksites at which Notre South Dade residents -and in done. may strengthen, education may of these people have given up Dame and Villanova were to hearts and memories of 117 The interaction and cama­progress towards greater in the crusade to stop the 
spend the ensuing week. students from Scranton, Notre raderie between the students excellence, and respect for the deaths of the innocent unborn. As I traveled down the Turn­Dame and Villanova as well. and the neighborhood, the ball environment may materialize No matter what political pike Extension and looked east The labor provided by the playing with the children and into protective laws. party you agree with on the over the roofs of thousands of students was tireless and en­the mutual love and respect People seem ready to do what issues of the economy, damaged homes perhaps the thusiastic. The effort and sup­shared by all was truly a hu­they can to help President-Elect education, environment, etc., I most beautiful sunrise I have port of everyone from the in­man reflection of that most Clinton bring about these great beg of you, please, confront in ever witnessed began to spread volved agencies to many indi­beautiful sunrise of a week ear­changes in the United States. your conscience the issue of 
over the eastern horizon. In vidual contributors to the Pro­lier. I believe that in this victory, a abortion and make your view fact the sun broke the surface gram were unequaled in my I am quite sure that neither I defeat, yet, still exists. It is known. of the earth just as I was pass­experience. I am proud to say nor anyone involved with this overlooked in the progressive Abortion is wrong -in the 
ing the Notre Dame roofing that we completed thirteen new program will ever forget this vigor. One may accept the de­same way that it is wrong to project on S.W. 221st and roofs in nine working days. experience. feat as a part of the package deny someone the opportunity 222nd street. But the most beautiful event On behalf of Joe Myrtetus, deal for change. of a college education -in the 
Now I am not usually prone to of the two weeks occurred on who originated the Fall Break This issue that has loss same way that it is wrong to attributing "signs" to natural Thursday and Friday of the last Program, and all of the many ground has done so because it deny a person the chance to events, but I could not help but week of work. Forty-seven people and organizations who has lost interest, and seems to earn a living -in the same way marvel at the significance of Notre Dame students on were partners with us, I want have regressed towards the that it is wrong to deny some­this beautiful sight. Thursday and forty Villanova to thank you for your vital in­dark corners of American one the health care to which an 
Truly the work of rebuilding students on Friday were given volvement without which all of minds. It need no longer be a individual has an inherent right South Dade County is only just an unforgettable reward. the other efforts would have question of conscience to those -Abortion is wrong because it 
beginning. And the darkness On each of those days the gone in vain. who have accepted the victory denies a human being Life. that Andrew brought to the neighborhood opened their At times the last few weeks of Clinton as the answer to the Students, workers, or the lives of tens of thousands is now hearts to the students in a spe-seemed chaotic. But so many question. It is that of the Pro­impoverished have at least 
things seemed to fall into place choice view on Abortion. been given the gift of Life and a at just the right time, often un­The human suffering is over­chance to sustain it. Clinton expectedly, that I know some­looked whose inconvenience may help the United States 
one was watching over us. justifies the means of extermi­achieve great potential in pro­In hindsight I realize now that nation. viding greater opportunity, but 
we had no idea what we were In the quest for a just world -still a living fetus can be denied getting into. Your help in one of equal opportunity and the opportunity to come into getting my son, John, and Mike respect for the environment -this world. 
Arsenault headed in the right the innocent life of a baby con­Abortion is said to be a non­direction, your taking on this tinues to painfully be taken political issue. Many say that it work as a Center project, and away -the issue no longer, should be separate from politi­especially your "donation" of however, bears great impor­cal debate -a personal Sue Cunningham were all keys tance to many Democrats, Re­decision, not that of the to making the project a success. publicans, and Independents government. Yes, it is non­
Frank Mackie who feel helpless against what political. It does not simply fall Oct. 26, 1992 seems a majority Pro-choice on one side of party-lines. 
view. Please, no matter how you We are not helpless. We must voted in this election, think individually confront our con­personally about the issue. Do
Notre Dame must remember poor 
science and ask ourselves if not accept the election as the Dear Editor: cess is to give. Don't believe in as an role model of Christian these murders of babies are ultimate answer to a question The Golden Dome hints, illus­riches but you should see where service. right under both God and law. that faces today's world and 
trates, and/or epitomizes ex­/live. »-U2 Said Father Sorin, "This col­Murder is wrong. The issue of each of us individually: the an­abortion is being discarded as a swer is Life. 
cess; the poverty of South Bend Yes, we realize that the gold lege will become one of the settled issue, but it is not -it is reflects need. of the Dome can symbolize the most powerful means of doing 
an issue which many people
Notre Dame breeds competi­importance of spiritual value, good (in this country)". We be­are choosing not to face. Help­Corinna Corbintion; Jesus Christ preached but in light of immediate lieve that the essential Christian 
lessness is only the result of Pasquerllla East ­
compassion. poverty, homelessness, and message to love and serve this apathy. Nov. 4, 1992 
Notre Dame's endowment hunger, the gold and Notre others cannot only be recog­prioritizes financial goals; Dame's excess emerge as the nized, but must become a prior­South Bend's poor suffer finan­antithesis of our Christian mis­ity of both the individual stu­cially. sion to love thy neighbor as dent and of Notre Dame as an 
The Bookstore exemplifies thyself. institution. If we are truly a self-glorification; the crucifix The true Christian mission is Catholic University, we must not exemplified self-emptying. recognized and lived out by forget the essential idea of love 
Notre Dame's community many at Notre Dame; in Sum­and the example of Christ that lives in isolated fear of South mer Service projects, small we must try to follow. Bend's marginals; Jesus lived dorm masses, volunteering at Chris Martin among society's excluded. the Homeless Shelter, fellow­Dismas House 
The image of Notre Dame ex­ship groups, and the many or­Sarah McMahon udes arrogance and pride; cer­ganizations that provide service Knott Hall tainly Christ taught humility. to the community. Indeed Notre Nov. 6, 1992 

"Don't believe in excess, Sue-Dame has the potential to serve 

·--~~~ •.. ~-~------­
Accent 
page 10 
Bill Rosemann 
Sucking the Marrow of Life 

My heroes have always been cowboys 

huge wedge of Hallmark Card cheese. That's what I produced each year when asked to finish the sentence: "My hero is ... " Every year I hoped for the courage to print something respectable like "the Fonz" or "KISS." Instead I became pos­sessed by the writer of Ziggy and 
answered: "Mother Theresa. The President. My grandmother. Bruce Jenner." 
Eeah year, I prepared to write down "Eric Estrada" -I would then hear my fourth grade teacher ask, "Please explain to the class why you choose a character from 'C.H.I.P.S.', and not a martyr of the 16th century, as your hero." 
"It was those sunglasses, and his leather gloves," I answered defiantly, "I want to be Ponch!" With my peers' laughter echoing in my ears, I was shocked back to reality and wrote down "Ghandi" like any well-balanced child. 
No more. I throw off the yoke of oppression and speak the truth to the mumbling Charlie Brown teachers of the world. Here are the answers I burned to write. 
THE TOP 10 HEROES OF MY YOUTH: 
l.HAN SOLO: I'm referring to the pre-carbon freezing years when this Correllian was still a feared scoundrel. You know you're cool when your co-pilot is Chewbacca (a wookie who ripped off the arms of people who beat him at bolo-chess), and your space ship, the Millenium Falcon, could do the Kessel Run in less than twelve parsecs. 
2. 
BILLY BATSON: He had it all-with one mighty word ("SHAZAM!") he turned into Captain Marvel, drove around in a wicked RV, and his girlfriend was Isis. 

3. 
LINUS: A humble, blanket wielding defender of the mind: he knew the real meaning of Christmas, told everyone about the first Thanksgiving, and gave due homage to The Great Pumpkin. Chris Norborg (of Chisel) said it best: "An unassuming character, yet such a sublime and profound thinker, completely devoid of preten­sion-he was kind, yet strong, a theologian, an athlete even-a true Rennaisance Man." 

4. 
WEIRD HAROLD: The rebel of the "Fat Albert" gang who made a bold fashion statement with his pulled down wool hat with the cut out eye holes. 

5. 
JANA: Of the Wonder 1\vins, Jana was far superior to Zan. When they touched rings and said "Wonder Twins power activate!" Jana could become any member of the animal kingdom (even a dinosaur), while Zan turned into-a bucket of water? 

6. 
BO AND LUKE: The brothers Duke of Hazard County were "just good ol' boys, never meanin' no harm." The General Lee was the baddest thing on four wheels, Daisy could have creamed Laura Ingles in a bar room brawl, and no one could drive a tow truck like Crazy Cooter. "Someday the mountains might get 'em, but the Law never will." Yeehah indeed. 

7. 
WILDBOY: Of Kroft Super Show's "Bigfoot and Wildboy" fame. He fought crime in the Pacific Northwest and his best pal was a Sasquatch. And dig those wooly boots and the buckskin vest. 

8. 
SCOOTER: How cool would it be to stick your head in the Muppet Show's guest star dressing room and say "Mr. John Denver? 15



-seconds to curtain Mr. Denver."? Plus he got all the backstage dirt on the Kermit/Ms. Piggy/Gonzo love triangle. 
9. 
THUNDARR THE BARBARIAN: Of the ScifJ/Fantasy/post apocalyptic Saturday morning cartoons, his was my favorite. Sure, his sunsword was a light saber wannabe, and Ukla the Mok (his sidekick) was a poor man's Chewbacca, but he could kick the butt of anyone on Laff 0' Lympics (even the Really Rottens}. 

10. 
BOY IN THE BUBBLE: I wanted to live in his life size hamster tube, but only for a week. John Travolta's most poignant, yet underrated, role. 


I am vindicated. Viva Estrada. 
Bill Rosemann is anAccent writerof The 
Observer. His columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 

BY KENYA JOHNSON Assistant Accent Editohile 
W 
bile some students are running around 
aimlessly trying to 
decide on a career, one group of students has already made up their minds. 
SERV, Students Encouraging Religious Vocations, provides a permanent supportive community of like-minded peers, according to founder Herbert Juliano. 
"We are an organization which encourages, supports, and promotes vocations to religious life," said Juliano. "SERV gives values to religious and priestly vocations, while also affirming lay vocations." 
SERV sponsors a weekly Mass for Vocations and a weekly Rosary for Vocations. Prayer for Vocation cards are distributed throughout the campus year round. Throughout the academic year SERV sponsors the programs Vocation Vigil, Operation Andrew, and Way of the Cross. 
"Recognizing that every voca­tion is a gift from God which must be implored by prayer, SERV invites all students to take part in the Vocation Vigil by praying one hour a month for vocations," said Juliano. 
Operation Andrew is a min­istry whose goal is to bring people to know and serve Jesus Christ by bringing a brother or sister into the fold of those who answer God's call, according to Juliano. 
The program derives its name from the gospel in which Andrew "first findeth his own brother, Simon...and brought him to Jesus.. ." (John 1:41-42}. "It's the same concept," Juliano said. "When we see a person seeking a vocation or even remotely interested in a career within the church, we reach out to them and give them the extra support they may need." 
Way of the Cross is a new pro-
Wednesday, November 11 , 1992 



'Students 
Encouraged to Religious 
Vocation' 
gram implemented this year. On the first Friday of each month, SERV members walk the "Way of the Cross" with special prayers for vocations. The prayer service takes place outdoors along the shore of St. Joseph Lake. 
Other programs include an annual special mass for vocations in conjunction with the World Day of Prayer for Vocations and an annual Pathways retreat to "discern direction." 
The four main goals SERV keeps in mind throughout the year, said Juliano, are: 
•to make its members more aware of their personal Christian vocation in their daily life, through prayer and action;•to pray for 
' ... few consider about religious vocations; not because they don't want to do it, but because they have not been exposed to it yet.' 
--Herbert Juliano 
numerous and holy vocations to the Church and that those who have accepted God's call may persevere; 
•to 
offer part of the joys and sufferings of their daily life for vocations; 

•to 
proclaim the importance of heeding Jesus' command to pray for vocations, according to their possibilities. 


Juliano founded the organiza­tion in the 1990-91 school year. Then, his only concern was having a successful group on campus; he had no idea how much positive response SERV would receive from outside sources. 
"We have received many let­ters from other colleges and uni­versities, high schools, parishes, and dioceses," said Juliano. ''I'm amazed at the response, but it gives me hope. This is a wonderful organization that gives a great amount of support to students." 
Juliano said that he strongly supports SERV at the high school level. 
"The high school years are the most formative for most students," he said. "They [students] arrive at college with an idea of what they plan to do in life, but few consider about religious vocations; not because they don't want to do it, but because they haven't been exposed to it yet." 
The most significant develop­ment came when Serra Interna­tional, an organization which has been promoting vocations to the priesthood since 1935, discussed the possibility of becoming the international sponsor of "Serra SERV Clubs" on college and high school campuses, said Juliano. 
"I believe Serra was most im­pressed with the fact that SERV is not an ideological organization. We take no political or religious stands. SERV exists for the sole purpose of promoting vocations," he explained. 
SERV currently has 46 mem­bers, 10 of which are female. The organization is open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who know they want a vocation in the church, who are considering the possibility of serving in the church, or who simply want to pray for those striving for a vocation in the church. 
"Our hope is that we can pro­vide an environment, programs, and experiences in which students can explore the many different ways they respond to God's invitation and freely discern the path they need to take in following the Lord," said Ju­liano. "We hope this process will assist Notre Dame and other students in discovering their gifts and discerning God's call in their lives," he added. 
~-----­

Accent
wednesday, November 1 0, 1992 page 11 

'Today's Life Choices' 
(from I to r)

Broadcast 
WriterGary Sieber, video editor Paul Wasowski, and producer Michael

journalism Doyle work on the final editing for 'Today's Life Choices' --a show produced
with a 
• 
through the University of Notre Dame
consc1ence 
The Observer/ John Bingham 

By BILL FEKRAT 
Accent Writer 
F ootball isn't Not.e Dame's only 
contribution to television. 

"Today's Life Choices" is a show which 
brings the Notre Dame spirit of 
education to cable and PBS stations 
throughout the country. 
Produced by Golden Dome 
Productions for the University of Notre 
Dame, "Today's Life Choices" tackles a 
wide variety of contemporary social 
issues and tries to offer varying perspec­
tives from nationally and internationally 
renowned experts. 
A wide range of topics are ad­
dressed from world political issues such 
as the environment, to national social 
issues such as socialized medicine, to 
personal moral issues such as doctor-as­
sisted suicide. 
The show was originally developed 
in 1989 for the Vision Interfaith Satellite 
Network. VISN is a cable television 
network that offers high quality religious 
programming as an alternative to the 
"televangelist" shows. VISN combines 
the efforts of mainstream Protestant, 
Catholic, and Jewish groups and reaches 
some eight million households across the 
country. 
"Today's Life Choices" is also 
carried nationwide by more than 50 PBS 
stations. 
The format of the show features 
interviews presenting different 
perspectives of a certain issue, with an unseen narrator tying the information together. Interviews focus on people who are involved with the topic. 
And although the show is produced by a Catholic university, it is not a vehicle for Catholic religious doctrines. Its goals are of an objective journalistic nature. 
"This is not a show about religion. We're trying to foster a more educational atmosphere. But when moral and ethical questions do arise in a certain issue, we don't back down from them. Most other issue-oriented shows feel that values complicate matters so they're not present in the overall analy­sis," said Gary Sieber, the show's writer and Notre Dame adjunct assistant professor of Communications and Theatre. 
The show's willingness to account for morality and ethics is what makes it unique from other shows that deal with similar issues, according to Sieber. 
"A lady once did an interview with us concerning physician-assisted suicide. She had also done an interview earlier with '20/20,' and she said they made her feel uncomfortable when talking about the religious aspects of the issue, but we were very willing to consider these aspects, in addition to all other arguments," Sieber said. 
Programming for the show is decided by a committee of eight faculty members headed by Father Richard Warner, director of Notre Dame Campus Ministry. The committee meets twice a year to talk about what is happening in the world, and what issues concern their viewers. 
"Today's Life Choices" is very much in tune with topics addressed by other shows, such as "60 Minutes" and "20/20,"and often it finds itself competing with other highly-esteemed news organizations for stories. 
"We have a very limited staff compared to a network news show, so we have to be more resourceful in getting our information, but we have the dedication to do it. During the Earth Summit in Rio this year, a lot of people were trying to talk with Senator Al Gore, but he would only give four interviews, and one of those was with us," said Executive Producer Michael Doyle. 
Part of the high quality of "Today's Life Choices" comes from getting the best sources on the given topics. ln addition to Gore, the show has also featured interviews with characters as renowned and diverse as Arthur Schlesinger, Daniel Ellsberg, Gary Hart, and Martin Sheen. Sieber attributes the access to these guests to the integrity and resources of Notre Dame. 
, "Often, a lot of the experts hesitate to talk to the networks and the media because they aren't sure if those groups are trustworthy, but Notre Dame's repu­tation gives them a sense of security and they are usually willing to talk with us," Sieber said. 
The ultimate goal of "Today's Life Choices" is to challenge the viewer's previous assumptions about an issue, and foster further discussion. 
"Mter we've finished production of a show, we like to invite some of the Notre Dame professors over to watch it together. Mter seeing the show, we ask them what they think, and the response is usually agreement or disagreement with what one of guests on the show said. Then, the professors get into a big discussion and it looks like the show is still going on right there in the room. That's when we know that we were successful," Doyle said. 
"Today's Life Choices" has earned attention from viewers and television stations. It has won the "Gabriel Award," the New York Film Festival Award, and a Silver Medal from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. 
The producers aim to keep the show in the same basic format with the same emphasis on top quality journalism. Doyle and Sieber would like to see the show expand to a larger audience. 
The show is aired on WNIT (Channel 34) at 8:00 p.m. on Saturdays and repeated at 11:30 a.m. on Sundays and on VISION Interfaith Satellite Network (Cable Channel 31) at 7:00p.m. on Saturdays. Reruns are aired on WNDU (Channel 16) at 7:30 a.m. on Sundays. 
"My dream would be for 'Today's Life Choices' to be the 'Nova' of contemporary social issue shows. When you're talking about television shows dealing with science, everyone thinks of 'Nova,' and I would like to see our show gain that same reputation," Sieber said. 


Just what the doctor ordered 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
The Spin Doctors gave the SUB music committee a good name by satisfying the hungry ears of a full house at Stepan Center last night. For well over two hours, the New York City­based band displayed a knack for both music and theatrics. 
The fans remained standing for the length of the concert, even during the songs from the band's upcoming album, with which few concert-goers seemed to be familiar. A relatively slow beginning, marked by a strong base beat that reverberated through the blood and bones of the crowd, paved the way for lead vocalist Chris Barron's introduction of "Jimmy Olsen's Blues," the first recognizable hit ofT their debut album, Pocketful of Kryptonite. 
Few people seemed distressed by the fact that Barron's distinctive voice was abominably muffled by Stepan's less-than­ideal acoustics. Bassist Mark White and guitarist Eric Shenkman had no problems conquering the sound impediments, however, as each performed phenomenal solos during the course of the show. 
"They're just a lot of fun," said Chris Weirup, a junior from Alumni Hall and avid fan of the Spin Doctors. Weirup saw the band earlier perform in the year, but insisted, "every show is different-it's always fresh." 
Sparked by the ousting of one rowdy student, Barron urged the crowd to act responsbily to avoid physical injuries. Using the opportunity to present a call for cooperation and non­violence, he announced, "It's not the 80s, it's not the 60s, it's the 90s, man.... It's not me time anymore, it's us time." 
Instead of trying to conquer the dismal seating arrange­ments, many fans folded up their chairs and created pockets of open space more condusive to the energetic dancing encouraged by the upbeat music of the Spin Doctors. Stepan Center was packed with groups who decided that dancing, not seeing the musicians, was the most important part of the con­cert. 
In a smart strategical move, the band saved "Two Princes" until after intermission, thus preserving fair-weather fans for an extra half hour and earning the Greenpeace stand in the rear of the arena additional customers and publicity. 
After "Two Princes," the crowd was substantially reduced, but this fact didn't seem to bother either the remaining fans or the band, who remained to play a gruelling second half, including "Little Miss Can't Be Wrong" and a soulful rendition of "How Can You Want Him (When You Know 
...
You Could Have Me?)" that far surpassed the album cut. A crowd-pleasing encore extended the show more than fifteen minutes. 

"'• 1fl'll!'>.">QI_l 'J'Il
f .. ~' .. l'..: ---­


-------·-·--.. --------------·------..... -----..... -------------------------------------------·-­
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, November 11 , 1992 
Riddick Bowe is the challenger that Holyfield needs 
LAS VEGAS (AP) -Riddick Bowe is big, strong and un­beaten -just the kind of oppo­nent Evander Holyfield wants. 
You could say Bowe is the kind of opponent the undefeated, undisputed heavyweight champion needs. 
Holyfield has been criticized for fighting two 40-year-old­plus opponents in George Foreman and Larry Holmes and not being able to knock them out. Detractors also jumped on the champion after his narrow escape against Bert Cooper in which he was knocked down in the third round before getting up to stop the unheralded challenger in the seventh round. 
"It's a little different mentally this time," Holyfield said Tues­day before the final pre-fight news conference at The Mirage. "Here's a guy who gives me credibility. 

The 25-year-old Bowe has a 31-0 record, with 27 knockouts. 
"It's a better match than Larry Holmes or George Foreman. I didn't get any credit for beating them. They didn't really fight to win. Riddick Bowe wants to win, not just go the distance. It's a make-or-break fight for him." 
The betting line was pick 'em for the fight Saturday night at the Thomas and Mack Center. 
"When people say, 'You're fighting a tough fight,' it feels good,'' Holyfield said.''I'm in a plus situation. When my oppo­nents don't get credibility, it takes away from my work. You bust your behind to become the best-conditioned athlete. You beat Larry Holmes and people say, 'Cakewalk, man.'" 
When the 30-year-old Holyfeld won the title on Oct. 25, 1990 with a one-punch, third-round knockout of James "Buster" Douglas, the conqueror of Mike Tyson, the story was Douglas' obvious lack of physical condi­tion and apparent lack of effort. 
"The reason Holyfield don't get no respect is because he's a cruiserweight," Bowe said. 
Another knock against Holy­field, who once held the 190­pound cruiserweight title, is that he is a manufactured heavyweight. 
The 6-foot-2 1/2 Holyfield, who fights at about 210 pounds, lifts weights as part of his fight prepartion. He said, however, that for this fight he has cut back on his weight program. 
At a meeting to establish fight­ing protocol Monday, Rock Newman, Bowe's manager, talked to Mark Rattner, chief inspector of the Nevada State Athletic Commission, about more comprehensive pre-fight testing. 
Newman said he did not men­tion steroids in what he called a private conversation. Rattner, however, did mention steroids when he mentioned Newman's suggestion to others at the meeting. 
It caused a bit of a stir. 
"I don't care if he takes 
steroids the rest of his life," said the 6-5 Bowe, who expects to weigh about 230 pounds. "If he is taking them, it's not going to help him." 
While Bowe has youth and size on his side, Holyfield (28-0 with 22 knockouts) is much more battle-tested. 
"I realize he hasn't been tested mentally for what is about to come," Holyfield said. "When I look at him, I look at a guy who doesn't really know all about it yet. Every fight has to give you that, but Bowe hasn't proved that yet. 
"I realize the person who can beat me is one with a lot of courage and a lot tenacity." 
Holyfield's tenacity has never been questioned. 

The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SPRINGBREAKERS $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Hello-we need a couple of Penn ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. Promote our Florida Spring Break DESPERATELY NEEDEDIIIIII State GA's, please call 272-8503 if family can provide financial security, I NOTICES packages. Earn MONEY and FREE N E E D PENN ST & BC 2 STUD TIX FOR PENN ST. I you have any. ask for Mike or Chris excellent education and wonderful trips. My friends are poor but if you aren't future for your baby. Confidential 
12109 
Campus Marketing. WILL BEAT going and are nice they would I NEED ONE and legal. Expenses paid. Call ATIENTION: 
800-423-5264. appreciate your help. PENN ST. GAl Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) For more information and 
ANY INSANE CALL JON X3592 Call Marty X1206 520-5978 or attomey (818) 241­assistance regarding the 
Roomate Needed. Very close to 5535.
investigation of financing, business 
Campus. No deposit needed. Call OFFER HELP!! I NEED PENN GA'S FOR .. 2 PENN STATE GAS FOR 
opportunities and work-at-home 
Jose 273-8459 after 8 pm. MY DAD'S BIRTHDAY. PLEASE SALE.. MEN AND WOMEN opportunities, THE OBSERVER kyle CALL 273-0622 ......1 PENN STUD FOR SALE ......
urges its readers to contact the 
..... MINNESOTA-NEED RIDE call 4455 for Jeanne or Kenya FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE Better Business Bureau of FOR THANKS BREAK-WILL PAY! 234-9433 Need Penn State GA'S Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
ALLISON X2347 Call lisa 289-3790 NEED PENN ST. STUDENT TIX For more info, call COSIMO'S Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­MATI x1802 277-1875.
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
El Buen Vecino, a program Need PSU nx Eric x1200 9121 or 800-439-5313. 
designed to help families in need, WILL BEAT HELPIIIII PIMAILY welcomes blankets, towels, and bed I need 3 student tix and 3 G.A.'s for PIMAllYWORD PROCESSING 256-6657 linen for four South Bend families. ANY INSANE OFFER Penn Statell Call Jeff at x1738$$ PIMAILY Call Sara Haber at the program TYPING 
office at 287-8228, 6·8 p.m. GIVE A CALL & TRY ME @$#%'&'(!+)? :< PIMAILY
287-4082 
weeknights. Delivery may be I NEED PENN STATE provided if donators have no access $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ TICKETS PENN STATE FOR SALE I, Sean O'Reilly .... 
Guaranteed Free Spring Break Trip to a car.
To Bahamas or Panama City! 
I need 2 Penn State tickets so bad I CALLJENN AT MY family cannot come so I'm 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111Cancun, Jamaica, Daytona, Keys! 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND OR could cry. Please call Monica x3358 selling their tickets !!Ill!
Sign-Up Before 12111/92! 
COLUMBUS NOV20-21. WILL PAY @283-4033. [ BOTH GAs & STUDENTS]
Springbreak! 1·800-678-6386. 
4 GAS CALL RYAN X1605 so I can go to If you bought my Penn State ticket, TICKETS NEEDED-Penn St GA's­USC (nice weather)!!!lll!! please give me a call. 
..Spring Break!.. Bahamas Cruise 
Dan#1852-$$4U Kerry x3619 (+10 Meals) $279! 
FOR RENT 
Mike 283-1161 Panama City with kitchen $119 

################### 11111111111111111111!111111111111111111111111111111111111
Cancun $4291 Jamaica $4791 NEED 2 PENN STATE GAS I need Penn St. tix GA or stud. )'"(%$#@!"#<"}. !IIIII
Daytona (kitchens) $149! KeyWest HOME BED & BREAKFAST 
AND 1 STUD. 271-8139
$2491 Prices increase 12111/921 AVAILABLE FOR PARENTS ON 
CALL MURPH X:3451 I need 2 PSU stud tix badly! II SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK 
1-800-678-6386 WEEKENDS. 219-291-2899. 
################### ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY CaiiJim. x1718 '931 JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY I NEED A PENN ST. STUDENT TIC AT 618-439-3338. I NEED 2 PENN ST. GAs!II x4074 $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL 
ILOST &FOUND I 
219-291-7153 

I 
X2187 Bll FREEl CALL LOST: Blue 3.5" floppy disk wallet Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 1-800-426-7710. Possibly left in Fitzpatrick cluster NEED PENN STATE GA'S 1-800-922-BEAR.
FOR SALE 

Call Jeff x2271 MATI x1802 I WILL PAY BIG BUCK$ FOR Desperately seeking Dan Homing. These disks hold my homework!I CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for California ALUM desperate for Penn YOUR PENN STATE GA'SIII Meet me Thurs at sunset at St. 
sale!II Call to see samples ... 273-NEED State GAs Top$. Pis lv mess. (( CALL RICH X3367 Mary's Lake by Columba Hall. love LOST: LIGHT PURPLE NYLON SKI 2967. PENN ST. GAs (415)597·2319 always, your wife. JACKET WITH A STAND-UP PLEASE CALL ME $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ROSE-COLORED COLLAR. CALL SALE: 2 MARRIED STUDENT SHERRI x2650 Need 4 Penn State Tix TERRI KANG-Congrats on your 
283-3227, SR. ESTELLE. TICKETS for PENN ST. Call Tom X3423 ..HELP!.. induction to the PPE at NO IIIII 
call 289·3865 Need Penn State GA's -$PLEASE NEED ONE PENN ST. STUD. Ask her for details. LOST AT B.C. GAME: black Canon CALL MARY@ 271-7288$ I need as many CALL PATSY x4876 automatic camera. Probably in DO YOU NEED A HOTEL ROOM .. PENN STATE TICKETS .. $5.50 HAIRCUTS parking lot outside stadium, FOR SATURDAY THE 14TH? PENN ST. TICKETS AND HOTEL as you havell Penn nx 4 sale 
opposite DeBartolo. PLEASE Call CALL JILL X4670 ROOMS AVAILABLE FROM THE ..Call Tara #4766 .. 271 1514 VITO'S BARBER & STYLING 273-2989 if you found it. NOTRE DAME JERSEY SHORE SHOP 
Apple 12" Color RGB monitor for CLUB. PLEASE CALL (908)-I am in desperate need of 2 Penn 1523LINCOLNWAY WEST LOST: Franklin Word Finder Mac 892-0777. State GAs. I NEED 233-4767 possibly at The Observer or the Only 9 mo. old wlwarranty Jim x4110 SMC LeMans computer lab. $310 or b/o $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PENN STATE Please return if found. Great Call (908) 382-8253 & ask for Jeff need tix for PENN STATE need 2 Penn stu tks -John 3648 Gorman, Schroppwoman, Feeley: 
sentimental value. REWARD. call LAURIE x2998 GA'S Thanks for hosting us this weekend. 284-5334 Eileen. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I DESPERATELY Need ONE Penn You are the hostesses 
Rita Delivery on Campus State Ticket. Either Student or GA. OR with the mostesses. Love, the boys LOST: Old St. Louis Browns hat. 234-6524 Penn St•Penn St•Penn St•Penn St Please call Chris x4511 (and girl) from Springfield. Gray with Brown brim and yellow FOR SALE: call x3346, ask for STUDENT P.S. Sorry we forgot to flush. lettering. Might have been lost near Cheap trip to southern vactionlandl Levell Need Penn St Ga's Stepan. Very high sentimental Bill x1594 TICKETS value. Call Wally x3443. Selling a plane ticket to North PENN ST STUD FOR SALE 
$$Reward$$ Carolina over Thanksgiving Break. call 3832 for Chanza $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ MARGE You name the price. CALL MARK AT 
LOST: !LOST MY DORM KEYS Call DAVE at283-3662. For sale: Penn State SA I NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S/STUDS IF YOU FIND SOME KEYS CALL Call Mike X2060 CALL MIKE X:3343 283-1684 X1745: REWARD PSU TIX. GA & STUD. X4459 111111111111 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Lost: FOR SALE-Hobbes is still not 21, too bad Gold ring with five multi-colored TICKETS 1 stud ticket for PENN STATE 3PSU Stud Tix 4 Sale B/0 some day you'll drink with us stones. It was a gift from my late call Carolyn x 4570 x4246 grandfather before I came to NO. IIIII!!!! I!
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX 

More sentimental value than Need 2 PENN STATE tix NEED LOTS OF PENN $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 

monitary worth ... REWARD!!!! Joe X2053 ST. GA'S-CALL TOM I NEED PENN STATE GAS X:3343 LOTS OF THEM 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL

• 
I beg of you ... look for my ring • I still need Penn St GAs TOM: 3593 DO YOU LIKE KIDS? Then you'll 

TICKETS.272-6306


• 
Lost in the JACC arena area • Pat x2071 CALL NOW! love this 3rd grade boy who needs 

• 
I am unable to study w/o it !! $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ tutor. Call me collect in NY for more If found please call Sue X2494 II We NEED PSU GA's and STUDS '"I NEED 2 PENN STATE TIX, info@ 718-325-9642 or esc.


"'PENN'PENN'PENN'PENN'" Call anytime! (Shaw will be -289-6052 STUD. OR GA'S .... Cara X4045. PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED. 
"TICKETS'TICKETS'TICKETS.. 

annoyed if you call too early, but I CALL Blll212-272-3506 OR can handle her!!!) NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS I need Penn State G.A.'s 212-535-1817.
I 

NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS Call Brian at x1771 NEED A HOTEL ROOM FOR
NEED NEEDED: PENN STATE TICKETS SAT. 14TH? IF YOU'D LIKE MY 
WANTED 4 PERSONAL
CALL TRISH 284-5255 PLEASE! NEED 4 PSU GA'S DAYS INN RESERVATION
PENN STATE SET YOUR PRICEII CALL X3646 
GA'S 

I need 2 Penn St. GA's CALL JEFF X1244
"'""'""WANTED"'"''"'"'' Hey Niff 
Tad X 1562 Hey everyone, 
Ride to Scranton, PA or any where CALL JEANNE AT 283-2645 Teresa Testa along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. 
I NEED PENN STATE NEED P.S.U. TIX has just turned 21 !!!
Will help with gas, tolls and driving. '"PENN'PENN'PENN'PENN'" Hey there 
STUDENTTIX BOB 3398
Flexible in departure and return ''TICKETS'TICKETS'TICKETS" sup
JEFF '3365 Happy B-day from Dan, Keith, Jefftimes. CALL JILL @ X4758 
-----~--------------------~ 
Wednesday, November 11 , 1992 The Observer 
page 13 

Eckersley caps career-year withAL Cy Young award 
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP) ­Dennis Eckersley, who had a career-high 51 saves for the Oakland Athletics this season, on Tuesday became the first re­liever since Detroit's Willie Hernandez to win the American League Cy Young award. 
He received 19 of 28 first­place votes from a panel con­sisting of two writers in each of the 14 league cities. With three seconds and three thirds, Eck­ersley totaled 107 points under the 5-3-1 system. 
"This is a once-in-a lifetime opportunity. I feel very lucky," Eckersley said during a satellite news conference from his home in Boston. 
Jack McDowell of the Chicago White Sox was a distant second with two firsts and 51 points, followed by Roger Clemens of Boston with four firsts and 48 points. Mike Mussina of Balti­more was fourth with two firsts and 26 points, followed by Jack Morris of Toronto with one first and 10 points, Kevin Brown of Texas with nine points and Charles Nagy of Cleveland with one point. 
This year, Eckersley converted all but three save opportunities as the Athletics won their fourth AL West title in five years. 
"I had a good year," Eckersley said. "It was my year. Look, I made some mistakes and I still saved ballgames. I saved 51 ballgames. You can't take that away. It's not easy to do." 
Eckersley's amazing year may be remembered more for the shocking way it ended. 
In Game 4 of the AL playoffs with Toronto, Eckersley came on in the eighth with a 6-2 lead. Toronto scored twice before Roberto Alomar hit an Eckers­ley pitch for a two-run homer that sent the game ipjo extra innings. The 7-6 wingave the Blue Jays a 3-1 lead on the way to winning the playoffs and the World Series. 
Eckersley still winces when talking about Alomar's homer. 
"People rely on you to close it out and when you don't it's devastating -and we all what that is-the Toronto game," he said. 
"But you have to go through the pain to go on. I shed some tears and now I'm looking ahead. I just want to work hard and come back next year and prove that I'm worthy of all this." 
Eckersley was traded to the Xs in 1987, and pitching coach Dave Duncan decided he should go to the bullpen, where he saved 16 games with a 3.03 ERA. Earlier that year, Eckers­ley had joined Alcholics Anonymous to battle his drink­ing problem. 
In 1988, he finished second in the Cy Young voting to Min­nesota's Frank Viola after notching 45 saves in 54 oppor­tunities. Again, his brilliant season was overshadowed by one of the most famous blown saves in history. 
In Game 1 of the World Series, Eckersley retired the first two batters in the bottom of the ninth. After walking Mike Davis, he surrendered a towering home run to Kirk Gibson that lifted the Dodgers to a 5-4 win. The Xs went on to lose in five games. 



AP File Photo Oakland A's relief pitcher Dennis Eckersley became the first reliever in eight years to win the American League Cy Young Award. 
The following year, he missed SPORTS BRIEFS 
40 games with a shoulder in­jury but still finished with 33 saves as the Athletics won the World Series. Eckersley regis­tered a 0.61 ERA in 1990, the lowest in major league history for any pitcher with more than 25 innings of work. 
The next year, he became the first reliever ever to post three 40-save seasons. 
"This job is not easy," said Eckersley, who compared his role to that of a field goal kicker coming in to try to make a field goal with the game on the line .. 
CLINIQUE HAS AFREE GIFT FOR YOU 

OUR EXCLUSIVE 7·PIECE 
BONUS GIFT 
YOURS FREE WITH ANY 13.50 
CLINIQUE PURCHASE 
YOUR "CLINIQUE MAKES PERFECT" GinINCLUDES: 
• DRAMATICALLY DIFFERENT MOISTURIZING LOTION 
•TRANSPARENCY3BLENDED FACE POWDER 
• 
NATURALLY GLOSSY MASCARA 

• 
REMOISTURIZING LIPSTICK 

• 
DAILY WASH SHAMPOO 

• 
EXCLUSIVE CLINIQUE COSMETIC CASE 


• POWDER BRUSH Offer good while supplies last. 
INTRODUCING TURNAROUND 
CREAM 
PLAN YOUR SKIN'S TURNAROUND. USE IT TONIGHT, SEE PROGRESS TOMORROW. 
• 
SO UNIQUE, IT'S PATENT PENDING 

• 
WORKS WITH SPEED SO DRAMATIC THAT PROGRESS BEGINS LITERALLY OVERNIGHT 

• 
SKIN DEEPY REFRESHED WITH DULLNESS GONE & TEXTURE IMPROVED 

• 
VISIBLE LINES AND SIGNS OF PAST SUN DAMAGE NOW TAKEN FIRMLY IN HAND 

• 
TURNAROUND CREAM, 2 OZ., 27.50 


L.S. AYRES 

..----------------­
page 14 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
always continue to build." 
The next week the Nittany Lions fell behind an emotionally charged Boston College team 35-7. But Penn State made a comeback, closing the Eagle lead to three before losing, 35-32. 
After defeating West Virginia, the Nittany Lions faced Brigham Young, which was fresh off of a humiliating loss at Notre Dame. While the Cougars bounced back well, Penn State was unable to continue its return to early-season form, dropping the contest 30-17. 
But the Nittany Lions have been busy preparing for their meeting with Notre Dame. 
"Penn State had an open date this week. I know we will see the same football team that Mi­ami saw," said Holtz. 
Despite tough losses the last two years at the jaws of the Nittany Lions, Holtz is not interested in revenge this season. 
"Our football team under­

f 
stands the difficulty we've had
I 
against Penn State," Holtz said. "But that's over. That's in the past. There's nothing you can do to change that." 
Are you considering theological education? 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY THE DIVINITY SCHOOL is holding general information sessions 
Come learn about our master's degree programs, including Master of Theological Studies and Master of Divinity Dual degree options and cross-registration opportunities with the other Harvard graduate faculties 
Meet With A Representative: Date: Thursday, November 12th Tune: 10:00 -11:00 am Place: 108 O'Shaughnessy Hall AU students, All majors, AU years welcome 
Penn St 
continued from page 16 

winning one for the Gipper, maybe one for Joepa," Paterno said. 
In the last two weeks, Notre Dame has demolished Brigham Young and Boston College, both of which beat the Lions. 
"Their defense is playing out­standing football right now. They virtually shut out BC," Pa­terno said. The Lions gave up 35 points to Boston College. 
If Penn State's season ends as oddsmakers project, the Lions will be 7-4 when they travel to Fort Lauderdale for the Block­buster Bowl. 
Depending on how the Big Ten shakes out -with several marginal teams still in the running for bowl positions be­cause of the new coalition ­Penn State could have the worst record of teams playing on New Year's Day. 
Last year's worst mark on college football's showcase day was Ohio State's 8-3. 
"What you see is parity," Pa­terno said. "You're going to see 
The Observer Wednesday, November 11 , 1992 
Sweet 16 turns sour for NO rugby against Wisconsin 
B RIAN AKEY 
Y Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame rugby team, coming off two solid qualifying round performances, faltered Saturday in the opening round of the Midwest division's bracket of the national Sweet 16. 
The Irish dropped the opening match of the tournament to Wisconsin 30-12, before regrouping to beat Cincinnati 24-10. 
The Badgers-Irish matchup in the opening round, many felt, was the real championship match of the tournament. 
"The matchups were ran­dom," said club president Mark Babka. "And after seeing all the teams play, I can honestly say that I felt we and Wisconsin were the two best teams. Had the tournament been seeded, we would have played them in the second game and been competing for the champi­onship." 
In the match with the Bad­gers, however, the Irish were still shooting for a spot in the 
finals. After trailing 5-0 early, the Irish came back and led 7-5 before Wisconsin eventually 
pulled awav. Although the team lost, there were examples of positive play by individuals. 
Most impressive, Babka felt, was the performance by Mark Naman, a sophomore who took 
over for starter Eric Marsh at prop after Marsh suffered an injury. 
"I had never played organized rugby before this year," Naman said. "But I just tried to use the skills the upperclassman taught me. I went in at the half when we were losing, but I thought we still had a chance to come back, so I just tried to play as solid as I could." 
In the consolation champi­onship, the Irish dumped Cincinnati to finish the tourna­ment in third place, a bitter­sweet win, according to Babka. 
"It was good to finish our fall season with a win, yet at the same time, we were a little dis­appointed in how we placed-we wanted to improve on last year's third place finish." 

a lot of teams being bowl teams with six wins." 
He said that NCAA decisions to limit scholarships to 85 players after three more seasons will spread talent further and cause more parity. 
"Kids will compete each Sat­urday. Maybe you won't have big mismatches," he said. 
Penn State leads its series with Notre Dame, 8-7-1, after winning the last two games. It is one of only six schools to lead its series against the Irish. Two of the schools no longer play Division I-A football. 

Charmaine, why are you so happy? 

Could it be that it's your 21st birthday? 
Love, 
Mom, Dad &Mark 

Alumni-Senior Club 
presents 
Access Denied 
9-2 
Thursday night 
must be 21 

Today 
Wednesday, November 11 , 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 15 
SPELUNKER YA KNow, 1F W£ BouGJ 111 
50UND.5 LIKE It GiOOP 
Pl.JW WHfR£ Do WE

A-VCR, WE COULD /flPf 
ALL our<. SHDW..S AND __ 6 GT THE Clt:S/-{? 
JAY HOSLER 
DON'T TH1Nk' PL. ANS 1Hf?.aJ6J wEu, Do Yoo? 
BILL WATTERSON 
GEE, !JI~ HANDS Nlt 3::l 1\\JMB, I CAt-I'T 1'-'()IJE 1\\E ~IIQ\. G\.IESS I.'\L ?01 
-.r---:::;;;ooo!!r~l"-lr--=--"\ ON r>. SWH\tR.. 
28 Lukas or Anka 44 Teacher's job 52 Mistreat 29Gaelic 46 Dance step 55 Picture puzzle 31 Sprinted 57 Caspian feeder 
47 London's Burlington, e.g. 
32 Budge 58 Ferrara family's 
48 Used an orange 
home34 Pres. Jefferson squeezer 
36 Etcher's need 60 Sultan of Swat
50 Amplifying 37Saint--, device 61 "So that's it!" 
French port 

51 Roomy 62 She, in 58 Down 38 Differently 
40 Bovine call 

Get answers to any three clues
41 Dirty 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900·420­
42 Blackfin 

snapper 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

-

The toaster divers of Pago Pago 
DOMINO'S DAILY DEAL 
Today's Special: 
1 Large 
Thin,Crust Pizza 

Valid at panicipating stores only. Not valid with any

Call Now 
other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drive~ carry less than $20. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 

WEDNESDAY NIGHT Travel Around The World While Remaining Under Our Roof. 
9,2 
Must Be 21 
-=+::=-F.+=t 22 Distress letters -:+.:-t:-:+.-1 24 Mason's wedge 27 Early pulpit 
THE 
n ~~ 
zc 
-~
Oz
::IJ_ 
r-
c 
arl 

HAV£ MORE 1lMc  f!t  
TIJ ME:t:-1 {ry I RLS £  (i  
Do 5i1JFF.  
CALVIN AND HOBBES  
OOt IS IT C\llD!  
CA-N'T 'tiE T\JRN  
T\-1£ HEAT \JP ~  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Like a bee sAncient measure of length 10 Upper-body 
sculpture 14 Singer James 150ccupied 16 Unique person 171rritate 18 Jewish month 19 Hahn or 
Klemperer 20"A-inthe 
Dark" 21 Act of burning 23Batwood 25 Kind of plane or 
space 26 Alfonso's queen 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
27 Gibbon or gorilla 30 Like some cattle 33 Navratilova and Arroyo 35 Domesticated 39 Australian pioneer 40 "Cats" is one 
43 Bread spread 44 Namesakes of a Lear daughter 
45 City birds 49 Female rabbit 50 Pasture sound 53 Length xwidth, 
e.g. 54 Broadcast 56 Surprise attacks 59 "Clinton's ditch" 

Ill 
:I 
..I 

63Goad 64 Lancaster 
buggy riders 65 Playful kiss 86 Lohengrin's 
love 67 AI-(chewy): lt. 68 All-purpose trks. 69 Projectionist's need 70Moved cautiously 71 Mets' home 
DOWN 
11mplores 2 Beehive State 3 Norman town 4 Crimean resort 5 Quinine­
supplying tree 6 Freshwater 
mussel 1 Kind of holiday 8 Actress Sanford 9 Professor's 
concern 10 Word with black 
or camp 11 Loosen 12 American saint 13 Mineral from 
dried lake basins 


Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, November 11,1992 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
The Jock Strip 
Injury ends career of one of NFL's finest players 
The NFL lost one of its true champions Saturday when New York Giants linebacker Lawrence Taylor went down with a season-ending injury. What was supposed to be his fi­nal season was cut short by a ruptured Achilles tendon against Green Bay. 
Football fans may only have memories of the man whose presence was so greatly felt on the football field that the mention of his his initials brought fear to NFL quarterbacks. 
It wasn't the most fitting way for a player of LT's stature to end his career. As in most cases, the end of a remarkable career is not marked by a stirring final day in the sun, but by a sudden goodbye which leaves fans gasping for a more fitting ending. 
A small consolation comes from the play that ended LT's playing days. Packer quarterback Brett Favre attempted a pass through the fierce pass rush applied by Taylor, only to have it batted down by number 56. 
LT suggested that his injury may force him to play another year, andGiants coach Ray Handley even urged LT to return upon hearing that his achilles tear would force him to miss the rest of the season. "I hope a player of his caliber wouldn't want to go out on a golf cart." 
Playing another season will make little difference in his legacy. 
From his first play to his last, Taylor had an effect on football which will never be forgotten. No offense could execute against the Giants without finding some way to contain LT. Throughout the eighties, general managers went on a search for athletic offensive lineman who could contain the most feared pass rusher in the game. Draft picks were spent on athletic young linebackers who would become "the next LT" 
LT wasn't the most loved athlete in the NFL. A storied problem with drug use earned him league suspensions, and his arrogance didn't bode well with league officials trying to clean up the image of the game. 
Yet nothing done off the field could overshadow LT's accomplishments in his twelve seasons with the Giants. He was named an all-pro ten times and was the NFL player of the year in 1986. 
In the Sports Illustrated Classic issue released two weeks ago, SI named the a best player at each position in NFL history. Taylor was the only player from the last ten years to make the list. 
Sharing the prestigious honor with LT were football greats Dick Butkus and Jim Brown. These players stick out in my mind, as they were the athletes which my father described to me when I was a child. He would tell of their legend, deleting the negatives of their character which stood only as a footnote to their remarkable feats. 
Someday I will tell my children about Lawrence Taylor, Joe Montana and the other great players of today. And when I speak of their greatness, I will also leave out the flaws in their character, as we often do with people we admire. 


defeated convincingly. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

But Holtz is not ready to count Penn 
liiiiiiiiiiiiState out of Saturday's game. 
"I thought that, after watching them against Miami (their first loss, 17 -14), Penn State was the best football team in 
iiliiiiiiliiiillthe country," said Holtz. "I thought they 
were the most impressive football team I'd seen. "But like everything else, when you
::!,11111111111111have a disappointing loss, things don't
ill see IRISH/page 14 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Kurowski out with stress fracture 
Public will get a glimpse of the '92-'93 Irish tonight 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame men's basketball coach John MacLeod found out he has another hole to fill yesterday, as he was informed that freshman guard Keith Kurowski would be out at least six weeks with a stress fracture in his left foot. 
X-rays on the foot were negative, but a bone scan detected the injury. A CAT­scan will be performed today to determine the severity of the fracture. 
"He (Kurowski) could miss anywhere from six weeks to the entire season," head basketball trainer Skip Meyer commented. 
"We are going to need some people to step up," MacLeod said of the situation. 
Two people he singled out were sophomores Malik Russell and Jason Williams. 
The injury, along with Nathion Gilmore's decision to leave the team, leaves the Irish with only ten scholarship players for tonight's charity intra-squad scrimmage. 
The event begins at 6:30 p.m. with a 90-minute practice, which will be followed by five seven-minute games. The teams will be rotated for each game. 
Both the practice and scrimmages are open to the public and admission is two dollars. 
The open session will provide students with a chance to see the new-look Irish team which features four new starters. 
"We're not as solid defensively as we need to be, and the communication is not there," MacLeod commented. "But, it takes time. We're a young team with a lot of new players." 
MacLeod has been pleased with the progress some individuals have made since last season. 
"Malik (Russell) is more confident on the front line, and Lamarr (Justice) is 
Irish, Lions have different expectations 
Holtz won't count out Nittany Lions 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 

While defending himself against charges of running up the score against Boston College, Irish football coach Lou Holtz also emphasized the strengths of Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions during his weekly press conference Tuesday. 
Holtz labeled as "ludicrous" commentary which criticized his play choice during the second half of the Boston College game. 
''I've been in coaching a long time, and I've never run the score up on anybody," said Holtz. "But by the same token, we were going to win the football game. 
"Whatever we did the first half, I thought they were capable of as well. We were playing the number five offensive team in the country." 
This week, the Irish play Penn State, which ranks fifth in the country in scoring. The Nittany Lions won their first five games, but have since dropped three of four, including losses to Boston College and Brigham Young, whom Notre Dame 
'*'' 
" 

Photo courtesy of Penn State Sports Information Penn State coach Joe Paterno says his team has little chance of stopping the powerful Irish offense. 
. ·~·· .,,.~ 
The Observer/John Rock 

Freshman Keith Kurowski will be sidelined for at least six weeks with a stress fracture in his 
left foot. 
becoming more sure of himself," he said. "(Joe and Jon Ross) have both improved. They are bigger and stronger, and we are going to need that from them." 
However, his players are not the only people who have impressed the second­year coach. The strong student ticket sales have not gone unnoticed. 
"It's terrific," MacLeod said of the students' enthusiasm. "It is the kind of student support we need. It's great to know the students will be jammed in here (the Joyce ACC). It will give us a major plus." 
McDuffie: It's going to be a rough week 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. (AP) -The pressure is off Penn State to win another football game, and that could be part of the problem for a slump that has seen the Nittany Lions drop from the Top 10 to 6-3. 
The university in May committed Joe Paterno's Lions to the Blockbuster Bowl: All the team had to do was go out and win six games. After nine games, that's all they've won. 
The bowl bid is locked up. They can't go to a bigger bowl. There's no longer a carrot at the end of a stick. 
"I think if we had that, it would help us get motivated," flanker O.J. McDuffie said Tuesday. 
Penn State, then 5-0 and ranked seventh, took Miami to the wire, losing 17-14. It didn't regroup in time for Boston College and lost. The Lions clinched the Blockbuster bid against West Virginia, but lost big to Brigham Young. 
This week, the Lions play at Notre Dame and are a decided underdog. Pitt visits Nov. 21. 
"The way it looks, it's going to be a rough week," McDuffie said. 
Paterno was brutal in describing the Lions' chances. He said the team has little chance of stopping Irish quarterback Rick Mirer or running backs Jerome Bettis and Reggie Brooks. 
"I haven't the slightest idea," Paterno said, grasping for lucky solutions like dropped passes, holding penalties, snow and 80 mph winds that switch direction at the end of each quarter. 
"We're not going out there with the idea of 
see PENN ST/page 14 




