The Observer
VOL. XXV. N0.23 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Irish Guard disbanded for alcohol-related offenses 
By MONICA YANT
Guard: Unfair 
Editor-in-Chief 

dismissal 
For the second time in five years, the Irish Guard was dis­
By MONICA YANT 
banded Tuesday for alcohol 
Editor-in-Chief 
• Guard History I page 4 
violations and improper
For seniors Pat Bednarz and conduct, according to ProfessorChris Boone, the news of the Patricia O'Hara, vice presidentIrish Guard's dismissal travelled for Student Affairs. 
like a cruel -and unfunny ­Citing multiple reports of al­joke. 
cohol-related offenses, O'Hara"Due to rumors, blasphemy dismissed the Guard and made
and numerous other reports 
provisions for a probationarythat have gotten back to Stu­group minus veteran members. 
dent Affairs, we're being 
While O'Hara would not
blamed for actions we did not elaborate on the reports, Thecommit," said Boone. 
Observer learned that one of
The reprimand hit Bednarz, the alleged incidents involvedthe captain of this year's Guard, forced drinking at theNorth­especially hard: "I think they western game.
are just making a precedent of 
A student speaking on the
us." 
condition of anonymity re­The Guard was disbanded 
ported that a Guard memberyesterday for alcohol violations dressed in uniform poured aand improper conduct, accord­bottle of alcohol down the
ing to Professor Patricia 
throat of a Guardsman with his O'Hara, vice president for Stu­
head propped backward
dent Affairs. 
against a tree. The incident oc­
Boone maintains that the 
curred near the Alumni Asso­dismissal was made in haste, ciation tailgater. 
without probable cause. 
"They were in uniform, less"(O'Hara) did not address us the hat, and it was plainly obvi­personally. She never accused 
ous that they were in the
us of anything," he said. 
Guard," he said. "It was inThe Guard was questioned 
plain, public view." 
last week by Student Affairs But member Chris Booneabout sponsoring gatherings said the allegation is un­
involving alcohol. But Boone founded. "It's the covenant law
said that the meetings were 
of the Guard that we are not to 
one-sided. "There was no 
be associated with a tailgaterdiscussion," he said. "There before a game and no one is to 
see REACTION/ page 4 consume alcohol in uniform," he said. "This is one of the many blasphemous rumors." 
Kissinger: U.S. did all possible on POWs in Vietnam 
Boone said that Student Af­fairs also accused the Guard of WASHINGTON (AP) -Henry accounting for missing Committee on POW-MIA Affairs. Kissinger said neither man ritualistic ceremonies and pub­
Kissinger on Tuesday Americans. The bipartisan panel is trying ever expressed those views at lic disorderly conduct beforedenounced as "a flat-out lie" And in a sometimes hostile to answer lingering questions the time. 
games.
the allegation that he and exchange with members of a about the fate of missing "If we had known, if we had By reprimanding the group,
others knew U.S. servicemen Senate committee, Kissinger soldiers and airmen two heard this, we would have the University is "calling into were left behind when the war didn't rule out the possibility decades after the conclusion of acted on it," Kissinger said. 
question the very existence ofin Southeast Asia ended two that some Americans survived the Vietnam War, which divided He bitterly disputed the Guard itself," O'Hara said.
decades ago. after U.S. soldiers were the nation. suggestions "that when The behavior and attitude ofTwo people who made such withdrawn from the jungles of Kissinger testified a day after President Nixon announced that the probationary group will de­suggestions Monday were Southeast Asia in 1973. other former Nixon officials, all prisoners were on the way termine if the Guard will con­
Kissinger's colleagues from the including Schlesinger and home, he or his aides knew that tinue after this season.
Nixon administration -defense "I think it's improbable any Laird, said they believed some many were left behind." 
"We've tried to preserve thesecretaries James Schlesinger are alive today," Kissinger said. American prisoners were still in "The allegation is a flat-out positive potential of the Guard.
and Melvin Laird. "I have always kept open the Vietnam or Laos after the lie," Kissinger said, blaming the Whether that will happen de­But the former secretary of possibility in my mind there withdrawal of U.S. troops and assertions on "leaks that could pends on the Guard. They'restate and national security were some in Laos." the 1973 release of 591 only have come from this 
pretty much masters of their
adviser acknowledged that even Kissinger's intensely prisoners of war. The former inquiry." 
own fate," she said. 
as he negotiated peace with the defensive, sometimes combative defense secretaries cited Kissinger acknowledged O'Hara alluded to Guard-or­North Vietnamese, he testimony came under oath reliable reports of more POWs, receiving "some reports 
ganized gatherings involving
recognized they had not before an extraordinary particularly in Laos, than were alleging that live Americans alcohol and "unacceptable" ori­
provided an adequate hearing by the Senate Select released. were still in Indochina." 
see GUARD/ page 4 


'Victims' left in wake of apartment sale 
By JOE MOODY But even with the rehabilita­whole community," said Rev. Viewpoint Editor tion underway, there are still a Timothy Rouse, paster of the few units with people living in First African Methodist Episco­
Broken glass and several them, people that were not part pal Zion Church and president dumpsters sit outside the of the problem, waiting to move of the local NAACP. boarded-up doorways of what into new housing when it be­Rouse added that if there had was once a hub of off-campus comes available. been any wrong-doing in issu­student living, Notre Dame These tenants are perceived ing the eviction notices, he Apartments. But, to the sur­by some in the community as "would have been the first to prise of many, one of the three victims--victims first to an array protest." buildings remains open with of crime swirling in their midst Debbie Thomas is one of the some tenants still living inside. and later to an abrupt tenants still living in the apart­
notification that their lease ments. She moved in on the last 
The recent history of the 
agreements were void as the April with her husband and twoapartments is a grim one. In a 
period of months, tne apartments were going to be children. residences transformed from a evacuated for complete Thomas was happy to be in popular student location to a restoration. the "spacious, comfortable" center of urban violence in However, most in the com­apartment located close to her South Bend. munity agree that the drastic maintenance job at Notre 
The buildings have been pur­measures were necessary in Dame. chased since, all tenants light of the situation. To her dismay, she happened were informed they would need "We want to see adequate to move in right at the time the to relocate, and plans for housing provided for everyone, area was experiencing a rise in rehabilitation have already but the problems related to violence. been set into motion. these apartments stressed the see APTS. I page 4 
.__ 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


,.,
~ .... ,.., "'r" .. ,..,.J...,.. __ 
? 

page 2 Wednesday, September 23,1992
The Observer 

INSIDE COLUMN 
P.C. pictures need the color of knowledge 
Pictures are a very strange thing. Many people take them, with many types of cameras. Photos are an illusion of reality, carrying an essence apart, yet 


intertwined with the John Rock past, present and future. Managing Editor 
U n fortunately,-------­photographs also compartmentalize the world we see every day. Most photos evoke an emotion, which as an art form complete their task, but as a paradigm for thinking, reduce what we see to a image on a two dimensional piece of paper. 
The brain takes that image and gives it life. It makes a three-dimensional story about living. Our 3X5 glossies from Saturday's party capture the moment for us, so that the brain translocates our beings into the past. 
We take certain types of pictures every day and review these over the course of our lives. We don't take them with cameras, but with our brains, and the images come to us frequently. 
There are many reasons we take these pictures. Most are involuntary, stemming back to childhood where, from the womb through the intervening two decades, the images, or stereotypes, we conceive now were starting to develop. 
How many of us grew up with the notion o God as a grey-breaded old man? This was a picture formed because of the way people painted the picture for us. 
It's conceivable why people can hate each other for the color of their skin. Negative ideas and emotions manifest themselves in outdated beliefs taught in another world. It's understandable how women are treated as sex objects, since that is their primary role in media advertising. It's understandable why homosexuals are still fringe members of our society. 
But it's wrong. 

We even know that it is wrong, but we con­stantly live in a culture that displays little but wrong in its photographs. Stereotypes are our viewing of pictures, not necessarily taken by us, but never-the-less in us. 
To beat the Politically Correct Drum helps in many ways, but as in the assertion of feminism in our day, there is potential for backlash. People contemplate changing "women" to "womyn," or "fat" to "gravitationally challenged," and other gender/raciaVdescriptive words become so confusing and bland that people's heads start to swell and say "to hell with P.C." 
The P.C. movement has tried to change the pictures that we have instilled in our brain, but the key to changing the images in our heads, and more importantly the images that are going to form in our children's heads, is to learn and understand. 
The student governments on both campuses have been working hard to bring the diversity o both campuses into a better dialogue. Now, it is the students' turn to understand the positions o each sex or each race, as we struggle to peacefully co-exist. 
It's not easy to tear up pictures we've had for a long time, but since the Russians are supposedly no longer our enemy, we surely can now learn to get along with each other. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Production  News  
Peggy Crooks  Alicia Reale  
Bryan Nowicki  Sarah Doran  
Sports  Systems  
Quaalude  Harry Zembillas  
Tony Pottinger  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
FORECAST 
Sunny and cool today with highs in the low 60's. Scattered light frost is possible tonight. Mostly sunny and warmer Thursday. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  40  27  
Atlanta  86  72  
Bogota  68  50  
Boston  76  59  
Cairo  88  68  
Chicago  70  52  
Cleveland  77  67  
Dallas  95  69  
Detroit  74  62  
Indianapolis  74  64  
Jerusalem  75  59  
London  68  49  
Los Angeles  93  69  
Madrid  86  61  
Minneapolis  76  51  
Moscow  61  41  
Nashville  85  71  
New York  73  69  
Paris  66  59  
Philadelphia  76  70  
Rome  88  61  
Seattle  74  59  
South Bend  76  62  
Tokyo  75  63  


Pr8ssur8  Washington, D.C.  79  74  
H  L  [3  ~  B  
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES :;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;.;:;.;.;:;:;.;.; !·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·:·:·:·:·:·::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:········  SNOW ICE ·.·.·.·.·...-...........·.  SUNNY  





TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 
Business school Dean named to board .NOTRE DAME-John Keane, dean of Notre Dame's College of Business Administration, has been named to the Board of Directors at Excel Industries." Inc. Keane, who joined the ND faculty in 1989, fills a vacancy created by the recent death of Dean Siddall. Keane, who holds a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame, was director of the United States Census Bureau for five years before joining the ND faculty. Excel Industries is an independent designer, manufacturer and supplier of window systems for automobiles, trucks, vans, buses and recreational vehicles in North America. 

OF INTEREST 
•The Notre Dame Investment Club will have an important organizational meeting on tonight at 7 p.m. in room 27 Hayes-Healy. All majors are welcome. Come and learn how you can help manage a real stock portfolio. For more information call Dan Heenan at 283-1769 or Dave Indelicato at 283-1758. 
•All Saint Mary's freshmen come and meet the candidates for freshman class elections tonight at 7 
p.m. at Haggar Parlor. 
•Irish 
Outdoors will hold an informational meeting about the club and this year's fall break trip to the Bad­lands, South Dakota, tonight at 8 p.m. in the Foster Room in LaFortune. 

•NO 
Law School Right to Life will show the 1992 video "Who Lives? Who Dies? Who Cares?" on Thursday at 3:30 p.m. in Room 121 of the Law School. All are welcome to attend. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 22 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 231,635,420 -2.41 to 229.48 S&P COMPOSITE -5.00 to 417.14 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS -39.98 to 3,280.85

UNCHANGED 561 GOLD +$5.90 to $347.30 oz 

SILVER +$0.092 to $3.771 oz 
NATIONAL P&G to test products without animals 
•CINCINNATI 
-Proctor & Gamble Co. says it has developed a test that uses laboratory-cultured skin tissue instead of live animals to check the eye safety of new products such as household cleansers and makeup. "Using our new test as a screen, we can now quickly tell whether a new water-insoluble ingredient or product in development may damage a person's eye," said Gordon Brunner, senior vice president for research and development. Elliot Katz, president of the animal­rights group In Defense of Animals, welcomed the development, but he said companies have been using reliable alternative tests for several years and accused P&G of insincerity. 

•Freshman 
class council elections will be held Monday, September-28. Any freshmen interested in running for the Freshman Class Council must pick up a petition today from your hall judicial board president and return it to him/her by Friday, September 25. 

•The 
Juggler is seeking submissions. Students are encouraged to submit poetry, artwork, fiction and drama for the fall issue of The Juggler. Deadline for submissions is Sept. 30. Bring material to 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 

•usA 
Today is seeking outstanding undergraduates to apply for one of 60 spaces on its annual "All-USA Academic Team." The competition seeks leaders in and out of the classroom to show "that academic skills deserve at least equal recognition to scoring touchdowns and sinking jump shots." Interested students must submit an application, transcript and teacher recommendations. Winners will receive $2,500. Interested students should contact Carol Skalski at USA Today, 703-276-5890. Application deadline is Nov. 30. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1642: Harvard College in Cambridge, Mass., held its first commencement. 

• 
In 1846: The planet Neptune was discovered by German astronomer Johann Gottfried Galle. 

• 
In 1938: A time capsule, to be opened in the year 6939, was buried on the grounds of the World's Fair in New York City. 

• 
In 1957: Nine black students who had entered Little Rock Central High School in Arkansas were forced to withdraw because of a white mob that had formed outside. 

• 
In 1987: Senator Joseph Biden withdrew his bid for President after disclosures of plagiarism in law school and in campaign speeches. 


Wednesday, September 23, 1992 The Observer page 3 



Colleges get $20 million from AT&T 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The AT&T Foundation announced Tuesday that the science and engineering programs at 90 colleges and universities will share in grants totaling nearly $20 million. 
Anne Alexander, vice presi­dent of education programs at the New York-based AT&T, said the grants include cash, equipment and loans of techni­cal staff from AT&T Bell Labo­ratories. The staff will work as visiting professors at 13 schools that mainly serve minority stu­dents, she said. 
Alexander said the 1992-93 visiting professors program is valued at more than $2.7 mil­lion because it provides needed faculty in science and engineer­ing. Ah additional $1.5 million will assist 10 historically black schools through cash grants, complemented by fulltime loaned scientists and engineers, and donated equipment. 
Fifty-nine colleges and uni­versities competed to receive more than $9.9 million in com­puters and other equipment used for teaching and research mainly in physical and biologi­cal sciences. Fourteen schools, 

IU, Purdue get grants from AT&T 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The AT&T Foundation announced Tuesday that the science and engineering programs at Indiana and Purdue universities will receive grants totaling $733,000. 
Bernie Sergesketter, AT&T sales vice president, said the two awards are part of a $19.5 million package going 
to  90  colleges  and  
universities  across  the  
United States.  

"We are delighted to include these fine Indiana universities in this, one of AT&T's largest, national philanthropic programs for higher education," he said. "If history is a measure, we're certain both uni­versities will put the grants to good use." 
interested in strengthening U.S. manufacturing productivity and industrial competitiveness, will share $2.5 million. 

Jiappy tBirtliday Slian! 
Love, 'lJat£ Mom & Mary fJ3. 
Over t00 Master Artists••• 
Bicntadt Klee Rembrandt Bo.ch Lautrcc Remington Brucghcl Magriuc Renoir Chagall MaLisse Rousseau Dah Miro De:gas Monet Escher O"Kccfe 

More than $2.8 million was awarded to 34 schools to ad­vance teaching and research and to promote excellence in the physical, communications and information sciences and in selected applied engineering disciplines. 
Sarah Jepsen, executive di­rector of the AT&T Foundation, the company's principal philan­thropic arm, said foundation giving this year was more than $30 million, making the firm among the highest top five cor­porate givers. 
The grants packages con­sisted of $6 million to 28 schools in the eastern region, including $665,000 to Howard University in Washington, D.C., and $300,000 to Gallaudet, also in Washington, D.C., and the nation's only college for the deaf; $7.7 million to 30 schools in the southern region, includ­ing $657,000 to North Carolina A&T State University and $550,264 to the University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez; $3.2 million for 18 institutions in the central region; and $2.5 million to 14 institutions in the western region. 
The Observer/Maureen Long 

The delivery man 
Grace Hall junior Steve Boone delivers flowers for Irish Gardens, the flower store located in the basement of LaFortune. 
Senate passes cable regulation bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate voted 7 4-25 on Tuesday to regulate cable television, sending a bill to the White House that responds to consumer complaints about rapid price increases by cable operators. 
President Bush has threatened to veto the measure, saying it would impose "burdensome" regulations on the industry that would be harmful to consumers. Both the Senate vote and a 280-128 tally in the House last week, however, suggested supporters that might have enough strength to override a veto. 
"We're still going to veto it," said White House spokeswoman Judy Smith. President Bush was on the campaign trail in Texas. 
The measure requires the Federal Communications Commission to determine reasonable rates for minimal cable service and restrict costs on the equipment consumers need to operate cable television, like remote control devices. 
It also contains provisions 

t
0 American Heart Association 
designed to enhance competition in local communities between existing cable companies and others that could provide a similar kind of expanded television programming. 
Bush has vetoed 31 bills to date, and all of them have been sustained, despite Democratic majorities in both houses. 
The strength of the vote, seven more than needed to override a veto, shows the Senate can do its part to make the bill law despite the president. 
Voting for the legislation were 50 Democrats and 24 Republicans. Seven Democrats and 18 Republicans voted against it. 
Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., one of the bill's sponsors, said he hoped Bush would not veto the bill. 
"There are a number of Republican senators who would like to support the president, but have a record supporting this," Danforth said. 
~N Esp ~..,.. 4<1~i Spanish Mass ~ 

Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
domingo, septiembre 27 
10:30 a.m.
TODAY thru FRIDAY, Sept. 25 
Breen-Phillips Chapel 
9am-5pm 
Celebrante
Notre Dame Room (2nd floor) 
Padre ~ruce Cecil, C. S.C. Parroqura de San Esteban 
LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 PRINTS FOR ONLY $17!. 


-



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 4 
Guard disbanded for the second time in five years 
By MONICA YANT Editor-in-Chief 
Tuesday's suspension of the Irish Guard is the second in five years for the group known for solemn-faced marching, rich plaid kilts and an aura of fra­ternal secrecy. 
The Guard was also dis­missed in 1987 for alcohol-re­lated offenses. Saying that the Guard had become "a subcul­ture," then-Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson questioned the very exis­tence of the group in his deci­sion. 
"The band as a whole pro­vides a positive image, but one unit (the Guard) seemed to be failing consistently," said Tyson in a 1987 Observer article. 
"Guard members consider their group somewhat of a fra-

Reaction 
continued from page 1 
was an interrogation and a conviction." 
Although the seniors ac­knowledged that the Guard did throw a party before tryouts 
Apts. 
continued from page 1 
"It was really nice when we moved in, until it got warmer and school let out. That's when the trouble really increased," Thomas said. 
Inadequate policing and little regard to whom the apart­ments were being leased to were the root of the problems, according to Thomas. "The former owner knew he was going to be selling the place so he wasn't too worried about the situation." 
The illegal activity in the area, including a Detroit crack dealing ring, shootings, and nu­merous assaults, left the Thomas family prisoners in their own home. 
The children. ages two and three, were kept inside. Taking the kids outdoors for recreation meant driving to a park on the other side of town. 
"Too many strangers were coming in and out of the build­ing with almost no security," said Thomas. She recalls how people used to climb up her balcony at all hours of the night to get to the floor above her. 
Though Thomas is grateful that she is being allowed to re­main in the apartments even as construction is underway, she is disheartened that the trouble wasn't prevented in the first place, as she had no intentions of having to move. 
"In my opinion, if they would have removed some of the bad people in the beginning, maybe we wouldn't have to move now," she said. 
She does acknowledge, how­ever, that the new owner is do­ing a service for the community by rehabilitating the buildings. "From what I understand, it's going to be a nice place. It's too bad it took a new owner to clean it up." 
Meanwhile, Thomas will be living in the mostly vacant yet much more peaceful apart­ments. "It's fantastic now," she said. 
Thomas expects to be moved into a new place by October. 
The remaining tenants are also expected to have moved into other housing by October, according to the new owner of Notre Dame Apartments, Chris Mateo, a Notre Dame graduate. 
ternity and pride themselves on keeping many of the group traditions secret," read a 1979 Scholastic article. 
Guardsmen themselves ac­knowledged the reputation problems that have followed the group since 1951. 
"The Guard used to be more of a super-macho, tough group," said 1978 advisor and Guardsman George Spohrer. "Initiation used to be a big deal. It was fun, but kind of ar­chaic." 
Patricia O'Hara said the Uni­versity has kept a close eye on the Guard since the dismissal, meeting with members at the start of each year. 
Ironically, the 1992 meeting was scheduled for last week­when Student Affairs and Band officials learned of the reported violations. 
this year. all alcohol was brought by the students attend­ing. "We by no means provided any alcohol at that party," Boone said. 
They indicated that an appeal was in the works. But neither is optimistic about the chances of reinstatement. 
Mateo understands the dilemma created for the tenants that were not contributing to the problem. "It's a shame that innocent people were caught in this beyond their control," he said. 
But because of the severity of the situation, there was no al­ternative but to do a "full-gut­ting," Mateo said. 
The work to be done for se­curity purposes will include in­creased lighting, new door locks and the replacement of the current security access system, which was destroyed. Mateo said that security guards will also be hired to patrol the area. 
Renalda Robinson, director of the North East Neighborhood Center and life-long resident of the area, is optimistic about the future of the neighborhood, and sees the rehabilitation as another positive step. 
"It's like the construction they did over on Corby. It tore up the neighborhood but in the long run it was good. 
''I'd like to see this area re­turn to the kind of neighbor­hood it was when I grew up in it," she said. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1992 
football season. A pro­bationary group like O'Hara


Guard 
proposed was formed after the group: Senior Vinnie Romeo, juniors Bill Kempf and Greg Scherle, sophomore Dan Thuente and freshman Brad Metz. 
O'Hara made provisions for Band Director Luther Snavely to form a Guard from remain­ing new members. He has the option to operate at a reduced size, or conduct tryouts for ad­ditional members. 
Snavely would not comment on the decision, and it could not be determined at press time if the five remaining Guardsmen would march with the band Saturday. 

ATTENTION: MANDATORY STUDENT HEALTH INSURANCE 
INTERNATIONAL AND FULL TIME DEGREE-SEEKING GRADUATE STUDENTS 
October 30, 1992 is the deadline for WAIVING enrollment in the mandatory student health insurance plan. This deadline also applies for dependant enrollment. 
For further information contact: 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES 
239-7497 
continued from page 1 

entation activities conduct-ed by seniors and returning underclass Guardsmen as major indiscretions. 
Founded in 1951 to protect the band and add an "Irish" element to performances, the Guard is known for secrecy surrounding its activities -in­cluding initiation for new members. 
The Guard was disbanded for similar alcohol-related vio­lations at the start of the 1987 
HPC 
continued from page 1 

Shumaker addressed the reasoning behind the newly constructed sidewalks running diagonally across South Quad. He said they have been planning to replace the silver poles and cables with natural paths and walkways. 
These sidewalks were not meant to intentionally disturb the play fields of students, but were necessary to match up the landscaping of the entire campus, he said. "We placed the walkways where there was a need," Shumaker said. 
"The main thing that we are here for is to provide service," he said. "If you (students) weren't here, then none of us would be here." 
1987 dismissal. 
She stressed that the Guard must function as a part of the band to function at all. 
Senior Captain Patrick Bed­marz and seniors Boone and Lou Blaum, junior Mike Maier and sophomore Chris Bouffard were dismissed from the Guard. Maier and Bouffard are ineligible from future participation. 
Five first-year Guardsmen were given the option to re­main on a new, probationary 


MOREAU GALLERIES, through Oct. 2-Barbara Shinn, photographs; Cheryl O'Neill, drawings; Marcia Kaplan, sculpture. Admission free. Information: 284-4655. COMING ATTRACTIONS... Lend Me a Tenor national touring production, Oct. 14... American Choral Directors Association Central Division Collegiate Honors Festival Choir concert, Oct. 31... 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's ---fiJI--­box office. located in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Saint Mary's Colle~ Information and charge card orders: 219/284-4626. NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 








PROCTER & GAMBLE 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS DIVISION 
Invites interested students to learn more about career and internship opportunities available at Procter & Gamble! 
PRESENTATION AND PIZZA 
Thursday, September 24 at 7:00PM LaFortune Student Center -Foster Room 
For Students Majoring in: Engineering, MIS, Applied Math, CAPP, MBA 
(Visit P&G at Industry Day, as well!) 
Wednesday, September 23, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Finance ministers debate how to spur stagnant world economy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Global finance officials escalated a war of words Tuesday over the best way to cope with a stagnant world economy and the worst currency crisis in two decades. 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady rejected calls for higher 
U.S. interest rates from European officials and said what was needed was further rate reductions to spur global investment. 
But Michel Camdessus, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said that the "most serious mistake we could make today" would be for central governments to overdo credit easing and lay the seeds for higher inflation down the road. 
In a pointed reference to the big U.S. budget deficit, Camdessus said, "It is not tight monetary policy, but rather the weakness of fiscal and structural policies that has undermined confidence, resulted in high long-term interest rates and hindered growth." 
Meanwhile, Germany continued to resist pleas from 
the United States and other countries that it reduce interest rates further to relieve pressure on weak European currencies. 
German Finance Minister Theo Waigel insisted that recent currency market turbulence was not caused by a "stability-oriented policy in Germany. To the contrary, stability is definitely the basis for orderly market conditions." 
The verbal sparring occurred during the formal opening Tuesday of the annual meetings of the 172-nation IMF and its sister lending organization, the World Bank. 
While the delegates were delivering their opening speeches in the hall, most attention was focused on huddled conferences behind the scenes as European finance officials struggled to repair the damage to the exchange rate mechanism that links their currencies. 
For some delegations, the currency market turmoil was so severe that they did not even stay for Tuesday's opening sessions, returning instead to face economic troubles at 

SuRpRisE! SltANk's FiNALLy 21! 
LovE, 
•coLE 
Bobo 
PissER BETit LyNNE 
FAUT 
CltRissy JAMiE 

SYSTEMS RECRUITING 
Representatives of the Systems Division of Eli Lilly and Company will be on campus on the following dates: 
Tuesday, September 22nd Wednesday, September 23rd 
7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Eli Lilly and Company is a research-based corporation that develops, manufactures, and markets human medicines, medical instrument systems, diagnostic agents, and animal· health products. Lilly is a Fortune 5 00 company and has maintained record sales and earnings for 31 consecutive years. The company conducts operations in more than 130 countries. Corporate headquarters are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. 
The Lilly systems organization offers analysts the opportunity to develop and maintain business and scientific systems in a multi-vendor environment that utilizes the technologies of IBM. DEC, Apple, Hewlett-Packard, and Cray. 
Take advantage of the opportunity to discuss your future in the information systems field. Lilly representatives will return to campus to conduct 
interviews on Wednesday November <tth. 
' 

I  :  •, ·.  ..  
,  I  I  ~­ 
:  I  I  I  


Globlll 
lnlrJmtslioll Srstems 
~ 

home. 
Norman Lamont, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer, returned to London, where the Bank of England announced Tuesday that it was cutting a key interest rate from 10 percent to 9 percent to relieve pressure on Britian's recession­wracked economy. 
Despite massive intervention by the Bank of France to prop up its currency, the franc came under heavy downward pressure Tuesday. Economists said the renewed turmoil was an indication that Europe's currency system was on the verge of collapse. 
Central banks from Ireland, Denmark and Holland also intervened in currency markets Tuesday to support the sinking Irish pound and Danish krone. 
On Monday, several European finance officials had said that the United States should begin raising interest rates to reduce the spread between low American rates and extremely high German ones. Many European officials believe the extremely wide spread has added to the turmoil. 
Franc under assault by money traders 
LONDON (AP) -Money traders mounted a full-scale assault on the French franc Tuesday, and some economists said the European currency exchange system appeared to verge on collapse. 
The Bank of France apparently spent billions in foreign exchange trying to prop up the franc by purchasing vast quantities of the French currency. But the franc remained under enormous pressure against the powerful German mark. 
It remained unclear how long the franc could withstand the wave of speculative selling. This was the same type of selling that last week forced Britain and Italy to remove their currencies from the European exchange rate mechanism, which is designed to keep currency values relatively stable. 

"So many speculators made so much money betting against the pound and the lira ­they've got money to play with against the franc," said Simon Knapp, an economist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd., the large London brokerage. "This can't be justified at all on fundamental grounds." 
Knapp said the exchange-rate mechanism "seems to be in the gravest danger of splitting apart." 
The mechanism was established in 1979 to prevent unexpected lurches in the value of currencies of the 12 nations in the European Community. 
Central banks from Ireland, Denmark and Holland intervened Tuesday to support the sinking Irish pound and Danish krone. 
The British pound stabilized against the German mark, after the Bank of England cut its base lending rate from 10 percent to 9 percent Tuesday morning. A cut in interest rates tends to make a currency less attractive. but it also can stimulate economic growth, which would make a currency worth more. 
As if plans for a single European currency were not already dimmed enough, Denmark said Tuesday it will reconsider an earlier rejection of the Maastricht treaty for European political and monetary union, but it does not want to be tied to a single European currency, a key goal of the pact. 
Britain, meanwhile, lowered its interest rates to 9 percent and called again for changes in the exchange-rate mechanism. 
Currency traders said the French franc dipped below its rate mechanism floor of 3.4305 francs to the mark during the day, as the mark rose to around 3.4400 francs. Big franc purchases by the Bank of France and Germany's central bank, the Bundesbank, brought the franc back within its boundaries by the end of the European trading day, however. 
"It's still un-nervy out there -very nervous," said George Magnus, chief international economist at S.G. Warburg, a London investment bank. 
NOW OPEN IN MISHAWAKA 


SZECHWAN GARDEN 
Chinese Restaurant 
Daily Luncheon Specials Mon.-Sat. til 3:00 pm Sunday Buffet 11:30-3a» $795 
• 6 Entrees • Saups
• Salads • AppetizM'S • Desserts 
Carry Out Service Available 
Hours:


)..._! tiJ 
Mon.-ThUrs. 11:30-9-.30 

~~ Fri.-Sal 11:30-10:30 
Slllday 11:31-9:01 

~..... fia'uUn 
Clalw1e R~1taur11nt 
(Just ust of lir• Rd. 1111 llklillley) 

page 6 The Observer Wednesday, September 23, 1992 
ELECTION '92 

Clinton gives speech at MSU Taunts Bush for refusing to debate 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) ­Bill Clinton taunted President Bush for refusing to debate on Tuesday and defended his home-state record against a scathing attack Bush launched on a dash through the six states surrounding Arkansas. 
As Clinton and Bush traded barbs exactly six weeks before Election Day, Ross Perot added another twist by saying he had made a mistake when he abandoned plans to enter the race. The Texas businessman didn't say he would reverse that decision but did say supporters were "looking at the situation." 
With time running short and national polls showing Clinton with a comfortable lead, neither Bush nor Clinton had time to concern themselves publicly with Perot's latest maneuvering. 
Clinton wove Bush's decision against debating Tuesday night into his economic pitch. Bush, his previous attacks on Clinton causing nary a ripple in the polls, for the first time made a detailed indictment of the Arkansas governor's state record and suggested the real debate should match candidate Clinton's promises against Governor Clinton's performance. 
In Washington, the Commission on Presidential Debates made a fresh proposal to the campaigns that the first Bush-Clinton debate be next Tuesday in Louisville, Ky., the site and date originally proposed for a vice presidential debate. 
The Clinton camp im­mediately accepted and said it was ready to discuss arrangements -but only at an open meeting with the commission. The Bush cam­paign repeated its objection to the commission's single­moderator format and said it 
Bush targets Clinton record 
LONGVIEW, Texas (AP) ­President Bush, on a daylong dash through six states encir­cling Arkansas, attacked Bill Clinton's record as governor Tuesday, saying the Democratic candidate talks a good game but "delivers misery at home." 
"This man has the gall to go around America and promise the moon when on issue after issue the sky has fallen in on his own backyard," the presi­dent said in his most deter­mined effort yet to spotlight problems in Clinton's hom-estate. 
As Clinton tried to call atten­tion to Bush's refusal to show up for a proposed debate in East Lansing, Mich., the presi­dent said, "Gov. Clinton's is off talking up there in Michigan, waving his arms around, talk­ing about my being afraid to stand up with him. Who is he to 
call me afraid, for heaven's sake?" 
Police rushed into the crowd at an airport rally in Greenville, Miss.. before Bush arrived to escort out a Clinton supporter wearing a chicken costume and a sign reading, "No debate about it. He's Chicken George." 
Offering an encyclopedia of statistics, Bush said, "The next time you hear candidate Clinton promise to be a progressive change agent for the entire United States. think of civil rights, and taxes in the state he's left behind, think of crime and child abuse and education in that great state, Arkansas, think of the environment that he's neglected, the health care problems he's ignored." 
Clinton dismissed Bush's criticisms as an exercise in "diversion, denial and division." 









GREG, HAPPY 
3X7 
Love, Mom & Dad Dana, Danielle and Cindy 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Sports Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Mike Scrudato by Friday Sept. 25. Contact Mike at 239-7471 for more information. 
would deal with the Clinton campaign rather than the commission in pressing for a multiple-questioner arrangement. 
Bush said Tuesday, "We're not going to do it on his terms alone, but we'll have debates." Clinton, asked if he would go outside the commission if the Bush camp insists, said simply, "I think the commission ought to sponsor these debates." 
In Michigan, Clinton said Bush was afraid to debate because he would have to defend four years in which 3 million Americans lost their jobs, industrial production fell for the first time in history, 2 million more Americans slipped into poverty and average family incomes declined by $1,600. 
" If I had the worst record of any president in 50 years I wouldn't want to defend that record either," said Clinton. 
Perot says 
h.i~ ·~i~ly j:;:,.;W_l_t_ ..........••_~rawalia••••~m.••---•--•-•·.:.•..•..•.....s_''iar<e~
•........•••t~_ ___·_ · 
...• :•!•!•"<·". . . . . . . . . . . . . ..: ···\:~{~:~:~::::;:-:·:·:-.. OAttASlAP)....., Ross Per9t.. Fitzwater wpuld d~seribe said Tu~sday he 'fma.de ~ the meeting orily -8.$ a "private mistake:~~ 
in dropping hllt .discussion to h~ar vvhat Mr. ind~P~lltienf .· pr~side.qtMdi Perot had to say." ASked why cball~ng~f d~ttvedn~ y~~> .rerot sought the meeting, 
.another broad hint thathe •pit~vvater said: "ltlon't know 


t~l~t~l!l~fii~~~;~:~~
who ~~ 9:tr the ballot in aU ?O i~lusious of winning. such a st~l'te$:; :@¢(1ll1plained tha~} .J'ace, hut that be might beginneither President Bush nof't•. tunnlng ads aild making DemQera~l~ nomine~ liill spe~ches in states like Texascnr,t()r, hitd offered serio~s andi J"l(Jrida, whet~ he could proposals to deal with the ·•· affe¢t the outcqnit'i; ]'ho~e: two 
•naii()~·$ ~~~~et ti~il~lf . :::: ?> states ~recount (~t 57 of.the .rerotljl.ade the complalnt O;n 27Q •electoral votes needed to 
.·wa:hfn~!(lin~ft'ii·'•·•·PB~sli1~····· ·~~~iy~~s~:':~·mvitation
campaign ehief James Baker · tb Bill CUntonto put a serious HI. White House spokesman• eeonqmie proposal on the 

;_4_e~_li ..·.·_•yrf_.~l-.•~~-··.•~.:-~t ,_.~_;~~~i§~~!.fJr;
__ __•._•(_•__


!_·-~· .•_~_!_d_i_·._:_pkw_~-~~--··--··_:_~: 

~round Oct. 1,hom.e., ·:::::::::::::: /:ir:=::==:===:.:= ·tif}·:·.··
.·.:·:·;:;::::::::::: 


If you want to put your technical skills to use and you have an interest in... 
Information Systems or Telecommunications 
Come talk to us at the... 

~ Dinner on Tuesday, September 22 ~& Fair on Wednesday, September 23 

"On The Leading Edge of Technology in the Financial Services Industry." 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 23, 1992 page 7 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
First you have grass ... then mud, then concrete 
Dear Editor: 
John Rock's "Inside Column" of Aug. 25, 1992 was thought provoking. 
At what point does it appear that something is being done to you rather than for you? 
At what point do you begin to suspect the doers motivations? 
I would like to add to John's thoughts: not a con to his pro, or vice versa. Enclosed are simply thoughts ... I cannot even call them facts. 
All things evolve, or at least change... not always for the better. This I have observed. 
Now take grass; it is pretty simple stuff; water it, fertilize it, cut it. If you are in suburbia, maybe you bag or rake the clippings. 
Then you have your concrete. After you pour it (no simple or cheap task) you have to shovel it, scrape ice off it, clean politi­cal and sexual graffiti from it. Certainly not as desirable as grass. 
Now in Darwinian Evolution at du Lac you have Grass, then Mud, then Concrete. 
If the Administration cannot have grass where they want grass, they plant concrete. If you walk on it too much, prac­tice roto-tilling too much; the university paves it. 
They are not idiots. They realize that a beautiful green sward is great marketing. Did anyone ever come to du Lac because they thought the cam­pus to be ugly? 
They would like to see grass from the Rock to O'Shag with 
DOONESBURY 
just the minimum amount of concrete to keep the students, alums, and visitors from griping or tripping over the sidewalk cables. 
Go to one of the top floors in the library and find a western facing window and look down. Look at the walks. You can easily imagine which ones are original to the building and which ones are from the pro­cess of evolution. 
Change the location of some classes and a new path is cut from the library to some loca­tion that never was in the equation. 
Where did they play Quad football in the old days? In the big empty space between Plan­ner and the Library. There was a big space of dirt. Looked more like a grass parking lot than a golf course or the Main Quad. 
Build a couple of dorms and the equation changes again. 
No, I am not some old fart telling you to Keep of the Grass!. Just an old fart impart­ing some Darwinian theory as it applies to du Lac. 
First you have Grass, then Mud, then Concrete. Think about it. 
While you are thinking about it. Come up with a way of showing the University that an objectionable walk is not used and should be turned back to green stuff. 
Robert ReHig Class of '72 Holy Cross Hall Sept. 14, 1992 



Northern Ireland demands attention 
Dear Editor: 
In reference to the J & C ar­ticle (A7) dated Sept. 8, 1992, concerning Irish peace, it is not untimely that three former hostages held in Lebanon have called for a peace initiative in Northern Ireland. 
This plea comes just prior to the resumption of talks among factions at Stormont (Northern Ireland Parliament) this week. 
Not surprisingly, however, the Bush administration remains mute regarding the British occupation of Northeast Ireland (Northern Ireland). 
Politically, there are reasons for movement on the Northern Ireland question. 
One of those reasons concerns the re-election of George Bush. Notwithstanding the Bush administration's lackluster performance on human rights, it should come as no surprise that Northern Ireland should take a visible posture at this time. 
The mutual interests of Con­servatives in both the UK and the US are no secret. There has been a warm relationship ever since the beginning of the Reagan administration. 
Unlike the subtle pressure applied on the UK by the Carter administration over human rights concerns in Northern Ireland, the Reagan-Bush ad­ministrations have been totally supportive of British strong-arm tactics in the six counties of Northern Ireland. 
This began with the total dis­regard for issues affecting the 
h .. 'S?/{0;)0 q9NttHJ ff.}ffiYI
U7'5 5te... /F I R8'1D 
HIJMq;}(j(}j1HL JdiNBt/W f()JHM
7IUO ~ANHOIJR. PANNY/
6871'0 'GJXJ1 >OWitJa1d flll/1Gai71VJ
ANllI~fOI<ON& 
/7/ 5JS/Jmf.J5111HII?/.B (Jqjti?JJSm11
HOUR., 7HA7M&IW5 I 
J$11;.,1f1'rlfi(Md ~I J..'JNB<JNUltl
tua/W R.&AJ?... UM... / 

-'CI:WI/:fONCNJWON:JHd5/HL • 
hunger strikes of the early 80s and, most recently, ended with the deportation of Irish Nation­alist Joseph Doherty to Britain after eight years of imprison­ment in the US. 
Scandals affecting U.S. funds to Northern Ireland also stand in stark contrast to those issues addressing the improper use of the public trust here in Amer­
ica. 
Money which was to be used to assist in the redevelopment of deprived areas in Northern Ireland has been diverted to help insure continued division within the community. 
American tax dollars have been used to build golf courses and hotels, to promote tourism and to bring the Ulster Orchestra to Dublin. It has also been used to support opposing political parties. 
To control the distribution of funds, the UK government practices a process known as "vetting." Through this pro­cess, organizations and busi­nesses are allocated funds based on their political posture. 
As long as prescribed gov­ernment guidelines are fol­lowed, funds are made avail­able. Should these institutions become critical of government posture, funds are cut. 
Most frequently targeted for vetting are those institutions the British government deems associated with Sinn Fein, which represents 40 percent of the Nationalist community in Northern Ireland. 
During the Reagan-Bush-
Thatcher years, human rights organizations have compiled mountains of documentation addressing concerns in North­ern Ireland, only to be received by deaf ears. 
Sources include: the Helsinki Committee (Norway), Helsinki Watch (US), Amnesty Interna­tional (UK), the International Federation on Human Rights (France), the National Council on Civil Liberties (UK), and the Northern Ireland Civil Liberties Council. 
Unfortunately, an administra­tion which holds American civil liberties in such contempt can hardly be expected to support international civil liberties and human rights. The plight of our Native Americans is a case in point. 
Whether you are of Irish ancestry or not, the Northern Ireland state exists as a sicken­ing legacy to those who support the status quo. There are some 40 million Americans of Irish ancestry. 
Does it not cause the slightest curiosity that so little is seen and heard about Northern Ire­land when so much is provided our eyes and ears about other politically expedient areas of the world? 
Ned A. Delaney American Irish Political Edu­cation CommiHee 
Sept. 9, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
fAIHA71

PANNY! 
fA/HAT?

/ I 
((~' 
~~ 
'From the window 
of my heart 
I can embrace the world.' 
T. Couderc 

Stay warm. Submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
.-------------------------------------------­

Viewpoint
page 8 Wednesday, September 23, 1992 
-


Don't want to be a 'slug'? Register to vote today 

convention. This is one of the seen. This is the kind of tidbit The answer is that they are
Gary J. Caruso

This is a scoop! During the latest "slug" targets in the that may lie dormant waiting political animals who place
Capitol Comments

first week of September, I was Republican's campaign. for a golden opportunity in public office as a top priority in privy to a high level, sensitive The youth, Reggie Jackson, is some debate where children's their lives. They build ma­memo between the White House pictured with Bill and Hillary issues are discussed. chines comprised of political and the Republican National Clinton and their daughter, Hemember Senator Bentsen junkies who enjoy participating Committee. Chelsea, on a leaflet distributed patiently waiting for then Sena­in the political process. 
The internal Republican polls by the Greater Birmingham tor Quayle's comparison to John The only way their organiza­have consistently shown the (South Carolina) Young Repub­Kennedy? Once Quayle tions can assure that their President trailing Governor licans. mentioned Kennedy, Bentsen candidates are elected is to Clinton by 10 points or more. In part, the caption reads, recited his much practiced line, maintain their base support and These polls include Ross Perot "And who is the short fellow "Senator, I knew President attract undecided voters along and the undecided along with with the bow tie? Perhaps it's Kennedy, and you are no John with the "slugs" (if they vote). the major candidates. because I'm biased, certainly, Kennedy." It is time for everyone who 
The numbers run in the mid but there's just something non­Look for the President to at­wants to be more than a "slug"
The White House sent a secret
forty percent range for Clinton, Presidential about this whole tempt to use this children's to participate in this year's
memo to the HNC detailing the
the mid thirty percent range for Clinton Family. Arkansas may commission issue in the future. election. It is also time for
absentee rate of Clinton on a
Bush, with "Undecided" ranging deserve this, but not the na­With all the sound bites, political parties to end the
commission dealing with
from eight to ten percentage tion!" charges and counter charges, mentality of defining voters as
children. Apparently Clinton
points. Perot stagnates at A South Carolina Republican and attempts to define the other "slugs."
never attended any of the
around seven percent. businessman who rents office candidate's positions surfacing If anyone likes the direction
commission's meetings, opting
The White House is counting space to the Bush-Quayle cam­every day, the American public the President has taken us,
to send a staff person. 

on "slug" issues to repeat its paign paid $600, with the bless­must sort through the rhetoric. register and vote for him. If, on
However, by not voting,
victorious achievements of the ing of the President's campaign, Notre Dame students should the other hand, you think we
Clinton caused problems for the
Reagan and Bush elections. My and hired a plane to fly at be more informed than the av­can do better, register and vote
officials whenever they at­
source calls these non-issues Clinton's local appearances. erage "slug," but by how much? for Governor Clinton. Of course
tempted to vote on several
"slugs" because these are the The plane pulled a banner that If the Notre Dame community this year you can also register a
items.

issues "the average slug on the read, "No Draft Dodger for has not taken the opportunity to protest vote for Ross Perot. 
Political officials accept posi­
street uses as a gauge" for President." listen to Governor Clinton's Anything done this year be­
tions on commissions for vari­
whom to vote. In a New York Times story, the address on campus and has not gins with registering. You still
ous reasons. Some simply want
A slug is defined as a person businessman, Phil Roof, is sought information about the have time to register.
their names on the letterhead
who doesn't read much, doesn't reported to think that Clinton's President's record, how can As the Nike ad stresses, "Just
while others roll up their 
care about political details, and military status is a "major issue they distinguish themselves do it." The consequence is be­
sleeves and directly become in­
receives campaign information in this campaign." from other apathetic ing a "slug."
volved.

from television sound bites. A That thought remains to be Americans?
Most will at least assign a
slug will only vote if excited determined. More importantly, if every Gary J. Caruso is a graduate
staff person to keep abreast of
about something, usually The Republicans are at a loss eligible voter does not register of the University ofNotre Dame 
the commission's progress.
negative issues regarding the to understand why the Ameri­and vote, what type of govern­and now works in Washington,
Each official has a personal
flag or somebody's military can public this time around mental system do we really D. C.. as a desktop publishing
style and approach to such 
status or prisoner furloughs. considers the economy more have? Government by the few, specialist for the United States
appointments, but political
Sound familiar? important than family values, for the few? House of Representatives. His
opponents can, or try, to exploit
The Associated Press reported military status, or Hillary Clin­How many times have we column appears every other
those styles to their advantage. 
a race-baiting incident involving ton's personality. They are in looked at the incumbent candi­Wednesday.
Whether the President's
the 12-year-old Afro-American such a panic that they have dug dates for a political office and
campaign decides to use this
boy who sang "America The as deeply and thoroughly as asked ourselves, "How did this
information also remains to be
Beautiful" at the Democratic possible to find "dirt" on Clin-guy get elected?" 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

T-shirts were offensive, distasteful 
Dear Editor: displayed poor judgment but Dame football tradition, and, 
I was thrilled to return to disrespect for Our Lady's more importantly, of the spirit Notre Dame for the Michigan School and the University of of the University of Notre game, but was greatly disap­Michigan. Dame. pointed in the distasteful By choosing to wear the F-­Elizabeth S. Costello behavior of some Notre Dame Michigan shirt instead of "the Class of 1992 students and fans. Shirt," these individuals dis­Sept. 15, 1992 
The individuals wearing the played their ignorance of F--Michigan t-shirts not only common decency, of the Notre 
Hurricane victims try to find students 
Dear Editor: car full of food and water I hope Brian and his friends 
I am writing you in the hopes pulled up driven by current will read this letter and contact that you may publish this and students and alumni from Notre me. You have my permission to help me contact some people Dame. publish my name and address. who helped me and my family Thank you Notre Dame. after Hurricane Andrew. We sat and talked for hours 
and as curfew neared, a man I Jay Greenwald 
As we were sitting outside the know only as "Brian" handed 25300 S.W. 144 Ave. remains of our home, contem­me his address and implored Homestead, Fla., 33032 plating the immediate, such as me to stay in contact with him. Sept. 17, 1992 food and shelter, and the long In the ensuing confusion, I lost range, such as two jobs lost, a this piece of paper. 


Alumnus appalled at ·tans' who booed team after the tie 
Dear Editor: 

I am appalled at the students and fans that booed Coach Holtz and the Notre Dame foot­ball team following the tie with Michigan. 
Notwithstanding several er­rors, the defense was much improved and the team did their best to win the football game. 
I challenge the booing fans to live up to the same standards of effort and achievement as they expect from Coach Holtz and the team. 
Until then, the fans should exemplify the Christian values which we developed at Notre Dame and accept and support Coach Holtz and the team for doing their best. 
Timothy J. Monahan Class of '86 Sept. 15, 1992 

Students should be proud of team and let them know 
.Dear Editor: 
At the conclusion of a hard­fought battle against a tough Michigan football team, our Fighting Irish pulled away with a successful tie. 
Notre Dame came from be­hind to tie the score in the fourth quarter with an effort that showed the heart and pride of an Irish football team. As a student, I was thrilled with the accomplishment that the team displayed. 
When the final second ticked off the clock, I cheered with pride for the Irish. To my dis­may, there was a loud "boo" from the student section. I was disappointed that after a team put together such a successful game, we were unappreciative of their efforts. 
Notre Dame's tradition of football is legendary and win, lose or TIE, every second of every game, each player gives 110 percent. Regardless of the outcome, we as a student section should be proud of our team and let them know it. 
Stacy Bogataj 
Holy Cross Hall 
Sept. 19, 1992 

..---------~-----------------------~---------------~--­
Wednesday, September 23, 1992 
Bill Rosemann 
Sucking the Marrow of Life 


The toys that time forgot 
it N' Spin" was a gift of the gods. 

s 
There is no one who can convince me that the toys of our youth, from that 
grand decade known as the 70s, 
weren't the coolest things ever formed 
of plastic. My friends were not video 

zombies hooked by a joystick umbilical cord to a life-giving Nintendo machine. Nay, we blazed across the fields of childhood waving Silly Putty swords at the Grim Reaper. 
Toys of the 70's didn't flash, buzz, or burp. It was their simple charm, however, that called us to engage our imagination between episodes of "Space Ghost." These were toys with hutzpah, toys that grabbed you by the spleen and shook hard, toys of legend. Here then, paying due homage to the deities of Kenner, Hasbro, and Tonka are: THE TOP TEN KEENEST TOYS OF THE 70'S 
1. GREEN MACHINE 
The Harley of the Big Wheel world. When this baby rumbled down the street jaws dropped and heads turned. It was the ultimate phallic symbol: long, dangerous, and all muscle. Behind those double stick shifts you became C.H.I.P.'s, Speed Racer, and Pinky Tuskadero rolled into one. 
2. STAR WARS FIGURES 
The grand daddy of all action figures. Did they talk or shoot a light when you pressed a button? Hell no. They had no gimmicks, no bendable joints, heck, Chewbacca's head didn't even turn ... but they had class. They came with only one weapon which never fit their hands and would be lost in 3.7 seconds. The entire Saga was at your fingertips. 
3. 
SNOOPY SNOW CONE MACHINE Everyone wanted one, no one had one. If you did, you became the new neighborhood drug czar. 

4. 
COLOR FORMS 


How did the pieces stick to the adventure scene and nothing else? Personal favorites: "The Dukes of Hazard" (the General Lee frozen in grandeur over the bumbling Roscoe ... Yee­hah!) and "King Kong" (creepy Skull Island on one side and the Twin Towers on the other ... and I made Kong eat all those helicopters). 
5. FULL SIZE DOLLS 
This is how G.I. Joe was meant to be: 6 inches of glory, that fuzzy beard, and the deadly Kung Fu Grip. The "Six Million Dollar Man" dolls ruled: Bigfoot had the removable chest piece, Oscar Goldman had the exploding briefcase, and you could see through Steve Austin's head. But all cowered beneath the might of the 36-inch Godzilla and Shogun Warriors. 
6. SLIME 
Mom never let it in the house, but my friend Bobby had Slime with worms and eyeballs. The garbage can container was pure art. 
7. SHRINKEY DINKS 
I never understood what the point of these were, but they involved the use of an oven ... which is a good thing for kids to play with. 
8. WHEEBLES 
They wobble but they don't fall down. 'Nuff said. 9.TWISTER/SLIP 'N SLIDE 
Nothing like rolling around on wet latex... something from our childhood we should never forget. 
10. TINKER TOYS/LINCOLN LOGS/ERECTOR SET I couldn't build anything, but if you threw them well, you could get a satisfying "thwock" off a friend's head. PEZ Honorable mention, even though it's really candy. The pellets tasted like chalk, but every­one liked carrying the decapitated head of a cartoon character. 
[Sincere apologies for my lack of knowledge of traditional "girl" toys. The entire World of Barbie seemed pretty engrossing, and that life size Barbie head salon rocked.] 
So turn off that Techmobowl and go find your Slinkey, and remember, put that Play Dough back in the can or it'll get crusty. 
Bill Rosemann is an Accent columnist for The Observer. His columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 



Accent 
page 9 
... 


Learning in the lab 
Students spend summer researching possible AIDS cure 

BY MATTHEW MOHS Accent Writer 
H 
eather McGuire had anything but a typical summer. While most students spent their summers accumulating as much money as possible or working for the perfect tan, she helped unlock the secrets of life in a Notre Dame chemistry lab. 
McGuire was just one of dozens of students from other colleges studying at Notre Dame this summer through the National Science Foundation's (NSF) Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program. The NSF donated funds to give each student a modest stipend for the summer and pay for research materials for the projects. 
The REU program was specifically designed to provide students from small colleges without access to extensive laboratories the chance to study at larger universities with better lab facilities. McGuire, a chemistry major at Colorado College, traveled to Notre Dame to develop and purify a compound known as a peptidase inhibitor. 
With little previous lab experience, she started her "vacation" learning the basics of biochemical laboratory research from the synthesis of molecules to the creation of specific reactions on these molecules. 
McGuire had developed an impure form of her compound by her fifth week. By the end of her ten week stint, she was close to purifying the compound that in the future may be important in the battle against HIV-the virus responsible for AIDS. She took her work back to school and hopes to finish the project in the next few months. 
Peptidase inhibitors are a specific type of enzyme inhibitor. These compounds inhibit the actions of critical enzymes in targeted organisms, such as disease-causing agents, and prevent them from continuing with normal biological activities. For most organisms that cause disease, the goal is to prevent the growth of the microbe; thus, scientists target the enzymes necessary for growth. 
In McGuire's project, the goal was to create an inhibitor that would prevent HIV enzymes from performing necessary biological functions. Optimistically, the end result would be the destruction of the virus; however, the chances of it working are very slim. 
Dr. Marvin Miller of the chemistry department supervised McGuire's 
'We have a genuine shortage of qualified people in the sciences. This program was designed to turn the situation around.' 
-Dr. Paul Helquist 
research proJect. He believes that the REU program is extremely valuable for every student who participates. Dr. Miller participated in a similar program as an undergraduate and said, "It was a remarkable experience. It got me so excited for chemistry that I knew I wanted to be a chemist from that point on." 
The purpose of the REU program is to show students the value of laboratory research. The NSF wants to get the best science students in the United States interested in research. The modest grants for the summer projects are considered good investments. "The taxpayers got their money's worth. It is a sound investment in the future of the student and a sound investment in the future of science," Dr. Miller stated. 
Dr. Paul Helquist, chairman of the chemistry department, · was responsible for obtaining the 12 REU grants this summer. He sent out notices to colleges and universities across the country describing the positions and projects available. 
Students submitted applications for the positions. The number of applications was so great that competition was fierce, with over ten applications for each spot. A selection committee of five faculty members reviewed 128 applications, and the board was able to select a diverse group of 12 students. 
"We have a genuine shortage of qualified people in the sciences. This program was designed to turn the situation around," Helquist began. "[The program] enhances the students interest in science and gives those considering careers in science a further encouragement to pursue further study." 
Although Notre Dame students could not participate in the REU program, there were other options for those who wanted a summer research position. Each department has a program to give Notre Dame students summer research experience. 
Seniors Matthew Seng and Al Kozar both worked in the chemistry department with Dr. Miller. Kozar says the project was very helpful because it gave him some practical experience in his major. 
Seng praised his opportunity. "I couldn't have hoped for a better opportunity for a summer job. This research opportunity helped me implement some knowledge I've learned in school and also gave me a chance to work with other grad students and post-docs. They taught 
-· 

me the most this summer and made sure the undergrads understood what they were doing." 
Dr. Helquist noted that more summer opportunities such as these will be available over the next five years, not just in chemistry, but in all the sciences. As research becomes more important, the options for students will expand. 
~ -------·~·~-------------~---------... 
r 
page10 Wednesday, September 23,1992 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center .. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The

Classifieds 

charge IS 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES ATIENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313.  WANTED: Part-time child care worker for in-home care of 2 children, 1 infant. 10-12 hours/week, afternoons. 273-1702. EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!... Begin NOW!... FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. HURRICANE, RECONSTRUCTION AND CLEANUP, MANY NEEDED. BOTH SKILLED & UNSKILLED, MEN & WOMEN. HIGH WAGES, FOR INFO. CALL 615-779-5505 EXT. 541  I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 WANTED: STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S WILL PAY$$ $1 PLEASE CALL TODAYI DANIELA 284-4346 OR BOB 283-1090 THANKS! PLEASE SELL ME 2 GA TIX FOR PURDUE. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM.  NEED 2 PURDUE GA's CALL Derek x1771 I need 2 GAs for Purdue or Stanford-call Tom 289-3887 REALLY NEED 2 PURDUE GAs OR STUDENT TIX CONTACT LYNN X1675 I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S WILL PAY, MIKE x2209 Billy Ray Cyrus (4th Row) For Sale or Trade For GAs 289-3273.  I HAVE STUD TIX-ALUANY GAMES. 239-6915, 256-5327 I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket for the Stanford game. If you can help, please call Suzy at x3722. DESPERATELY SEEKING STANFORD TICKET. PLEASE CALL JENNY X2725 I need lots of PURDUE tickets!! Call Nicole x1564 Have 1 Stamford GA Call Jennifer 1257  pleeeeeeese! i need 1 or 2 stanford ga's call lisa X4845-leave a message PERSONAL HeyNiff JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! GET THE T-SHIRT!!! ***CLUB 23••• TONIGHT! Quarter Cups! OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 TYPING 287-4082 *SENIORS* SENIOR CLASS CRUISE THUR. SEPT 24 $25 INCLUDES EVERYTHING!! BUY @ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK *SENIORS* Earn $ selling silk neck ties I hanks I suspender sets. Newest styles I great profit margin. $40.00 start up. (215) 824-2914. JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!! FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 at Union Station 9pm tickets $16 at Lafortune Info desk. JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!! FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 FORMAL, FRIDAY SEPT. 25 JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS!!!!  TASP INTERNATIONAL IS LOOKING FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO WANT TO GAIN MANAGEMENT EXPERIENCE NEXT SUMMER. EARN $8,000­10,000. POSTION AVILABLE ACROSS INDIANA (MICHIGAN) ( ((((( ((((((( KENTUCKY) (TENNESSEE). CALL TOM SMITH 1-800-543­3792 Looking for Bagpipe Practice Chanters. Call Ed 277-6976. FOR RENT BED 'N BREAKFAST for ND-SMC families. 2 bdrms. w/twin beds; 1 bdrm. w/single. 10 mins. from campus in attractive neighborhood. For football & special weekends. Call 234-2626. Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. studio-$220 I bedroom-$255 2bedroom-$280 Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE CALL 283-1747 I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs WANNA TRADE? Call Brei (me) at 1248.11ove you. NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State game Nov 14. BIG$ Call Sam Collect (0)908-687-1330 (N)201­376-9427 Need 2 GA's for Purdue. Call283­4519. I need 2 Stanford GA's Call Chris X2727 NO Parents need 2 Stanford G.A's Will Pay Big $$ Meg x2985 player needs many PU GAs and 2 stud tix call Rich or Tom-1121 NEED BYU TIX! WENDY X1264 NEED 3 STAN GA'&---WILL PAY  @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ FOR SALE PURDUE STU TIX My brothers cannot come, so their tickets are for sales, please help Michael283-1161 @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ I NEED 1 PURDUE GA. I HAVE $ BRIAN X4073 //PURDUE//PURDUE//PURDUE/1 4 GA's, x1166 Scott, Paul NEED PURDUE TIX! CALL X4074 FOR SALE: STUD AND GA TX TO EVERY GAME x1416 ANTHONY I have 2 Purdue GAs & 2 Stanford GAs! Want Penn St GAs Ask for John x1372 Have Purdue & BC Stud. Tix Will sell or trade for Penn St. & Stanford Tix plus $ Eric x1200  Best Offer! Need 10 plus BYU GA's Call #1852 Need 4 BC Ga's Have Purd, byu stud tx and free kitten. Brian 273-1962 NEED PURDUE GA's FOR G-PARENTS!!! CALL 284-5118 HELP! NEED 3 PURDUE GA's. PLEASE CALL 284-4405! Need 2 Stanford GA's Todd x2292 Need Pur. & Stan. GA's Call Mike #1151 Leave msg. $$$$NEED PENN STATE TIX$$$ Student tix or GA's. Call x2998. WILL TRADE 2 STAN. GA's for 2 PURDUE GA's call Ted x2647 HELP! I NEED 10 PENN ST GAs! $ is no object! call Pat x2071 I NEED 1 STANFORD GA CALLARTx1153  MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. SENIORS: Are you disgruntled with dining hall food? Disheartened by the lack of stimulating conversation in your lives? Then join a Senior Rap-Up group! More info and sign­ups at the esc. ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 ATIENTION ARTS & LEITERS MAJORS-Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24th at 8pm. FREE APPLES! ATIENTION SCIENCE MAJORS Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24 at 8pm. FREE APPLES!  
..­ •••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE •••• Entertainment for the 90's!!!! Find out what you're missing at: COLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics, Toys & Games) 4609 Grape Rd. JMS Plaza, Behind Hardee's M-F 11 to 7, Sat 10 to 6 OCT BREAK TRIP TO AID HURRICANE ANDREW VICTIMS INFO MEETING: WED SEPT 23 7:30PM CSC COFFEEHOUSE USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 Typing 237-1949 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing ILOST &FOUND I LOST: EYEGLASSES AND A BLACK CASE DURING MICHIGAN GAME WEEKEND. IF FOUND, CALL BRENDAN 234-1376. FOUND Watch 9/21 by lakes x4991 LOST CALCULATOR Casio fx7000 (graphic display and other stuff). Badly needed. $$$ and no questions asked. Please call Jose @ x2070 WANTED EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. BONNIE DOON HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR SERVERS, COOKS AND FOUNTAIN Apply in person to: 52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka WANTED: Customers for Greenfields Cafe. Apply in person M-F. Breakfast 7:00am-10:30 am lunch 11:00 am-2:00pm $$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Guaranteed INCOME with HUGE PROFIT potential. Need extra money? Are you motivated? Want to have some fun? Send letter of interest to: Maingate Enterprises P0915  2 room efficiency, private utilities paid, male preferred $7 a day. Call 288-0955 B & B -UNIQUE COUNTRY SETIING. MINUTES FROM NO. NEAR GRANGER. 616-663-8308. FOR SALE RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 86 VW .......................... $ 50 87 MERCEDES .......... $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. Sweatshirts For Sale!!! Handmade Christmas, NO, & Irish Sweatshirts and T-shirts for sale. For more information or to see samples call Kim 273-2967. '88 HORIZON POWER BRAKES & STEERING. NEW TIRES, A/C. 51,000 MI. 289-1564. CHEAP FLIGHT NY (LGA) to SB OCT 23 Call Brian 273-0967 '86 Cavalier RS, 2 door, black Excellent transportation $1,800 or best offer Please call 284-5376 before 5pm FOR SALE 1986Toyota Tercel Wagon GREAT CAR 4WD/SR5 am/fmlcass AIR BOOK VALUE $4,475 call 239-5959 STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKETS SELLING BOOKLETS! ROW SIX SEATS! CALL BECKY 283-2689 For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 FOR SALE: ROUND-TRIP TICKET South Bend -DENVER Fall Break, $165 Call MARGARET x4087 TICKETS  BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET BOOK FOR SALE ­ALL TICKETS AVAILABLE-CALL KATIE AT 284-5443-LEAVE MESSAGE, BEST OFFER!!! Need Stan. GA's Bob 3398 NEED BC GA's. Call Kickham at 1 068 I need 1 student ticket for Stanford Joe X1666 NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PURDUE & BYU. PERSONAL USE ONLY. CALL 271-9540. Want to trade 2 GA Purdue tix for 2 GA Stanford tix. Call 606-278-9820 DESPERATE ALUM NEEDS 6 GA TIX TO STANFORD GAME. WILL MAKE VERY GENEROUS OFFER. CALL 412-644-3125 (DAY) OR 412­441-9613 (EVENING). UNSIGNED MARRIED STUDENT BOOKLETS FOR SALE 271 5696 I'll do anything for 1 GA to B.C. or Penn St. Lisa 284-5080. Will trade Stanley Cup for 4 PITI tix. Call Mario (a.k.a. Pete) at 1-800-322-0228 Need many BC GAs or M.Stud. $ or will trade Pur, Stan or BYU GAs. Nick or Tracey 239 7733. WILL TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 PENN ST. GA'S OR 2 STANFORD GA'S. 277-3097. I NEED 4 STUD. OR GA'S FOR STANFORD. PLEASE CALL MARY AT 3427. NEEDED: 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL MIKE x1528 I NEED 1 PURDUE STUDENT OR GA! CALL LISA@ 273-2527 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED PURDUE GA'S FOR MY FUTURE IN-LAWS!!!!I!II! PLEASE HELP!I!II!! ED @ 272-0864 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SELLING 1 BYU AND NEED 1 BC TICKET. CALL NATASHA 1257 PURDUE stud. tkts. FOR SALE!!! call #1756  $ RICH family needs 6 GAs $ $ for Stanford game $ $Call Pat@ 1900$ Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE need of Penn State GA's ..... Call Ann 284-5241 ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. HELP! II Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT 614-354-5716 Need GA's for all home games Brian 273-8368 Need GA's for all home games Kim 284-4401 NEED PURDUE GA'S. CAll SANDY AT 272-6194. HELPI!! NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame 1-415-991-3416 call collect NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Morrissey Hall & Law School Alumnist. Please help. Call David at 816-931-1267. Need 1 Stant. G .A. pay top$$ call Scott x4243 $WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR$ NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL SHEILA AT x4251 OR CALL (614) 459-0074 COLLECT BETWEEN 7pm & 9pm. HELP! MY PARENTS NEED TWO GA'S FOR THE STANFORD GAME. THEY WILL PAY$$$$$$ PLEASE CALL AL @273-2624 N.D. BAND DAD NOS G.A. FOR B.Y.U. REASONABLE. SARAH X3874 NEED 1 PURDUE STD. TICKET CALL 289-5980 NEED PURDUE & STANFORD G.A.'S CALL X4108 Purdue GAs For Sale or Trade For Stanford, BYU, Boston College, or Penn State GAs. 289-3273  Need 2 PENN St GA's and 1 BYU GA-Call 273-2873 Need 2 Penn State GA's Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I DESPERATELY NEED GA & STUD STANFORD TIX!! ERIN #2638 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. Selling STUDENT TICKET BOOKLETS. Luis 273-1528 Help! I need two Purdue GA's. Will pay $$$$. Call Alan @ 273-2624. NEED TO TRADE 2 PURDUE GA'S FOR 2 STANDFORD GA'S CALL X2707 NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S CALL ANDREW AT 1881 $NEED 2 STANFORD$ $GAs x3593$ Need 2 PU & 2 BYU GA's Call Lyn 283-4551 YOU YOU YOU YOU YOU CAN CAN CAN CAN CAN HELP HELP HELP I NEED GAs for FAMILY PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE HELP HELP HELP KYLE 287-9118 THANK THANK THANK YOU YOU YOU I desperately need STANFORD TIX! Monique x4042 have PU GA'S will sell or trade for Stan. GA's +$call Chris 273-2514 I NEED STANFORD TIX!! STUDENT OR GA'S ARE OK!! CALL MICHAEL *4239 2 Married stud tix for sale call 288­6547 NEED Stanford Tix. Call Matt x1741 I NEED 1 BC GA. DAVE, x4506 SELLING 1 PURDUE stud. ticket MATix3335  ATIENTION ENGINEERING MAJORS-Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24 at 8pm. FREE APPLES! Hey Diane. You rule. :) Thanks for talking. Let's be philosophical more than once a week, OK? INTERESTED IN A JOB? • Interested in a job or internship • with the State Department? • Information meeting on • Wednesday, SEPT 23 at 7 p.m. • in the Dooley Room in Lafortune. • ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! I ! ! ! !! ! ! !!! To all those who left the fiersome foursome of freshmen stranded at the U2 concert friday, kiss our freezing asses! DEEP THOUGHTS: Pubic hair ... why??? To Blondie, Clueless, and the rest of the Smurf Crew: Quotes from MSU 1. 9:30???? 2. Could you ride my ass a little harder? Next time bring Vasoline! 3. I'm leaking!!! 4. So what DO they wear under their kilts? 5. Fainting at MSU, Nuff said! 6. Please, adjust that strap! 7. I'm looking for a yellow line! Hey buddy, can I borrow your crayon? 8. Expected: Miss do you know how fast you're going? Actual: Miss do you know you have a headlight out? ( can we get that on tape?) 9. Who farted?? NO.. no ..no .... l'm Sorry!II 10. So when's our next road trip?! Luv Jello-knees & Brown Eyed Girl TOP 10 REASONS TO GET SOME PLAY IN THE LYONS HALL VOLLEYBALL TOURNEY 10. You can't have more fun doing it than doing it for charity. 9. You'll have a chance to put both wrists together for something besides handcuffs. 8. You don't have to be "21" to be served. 7. You can work on your tan ...Not. 6. You can stay on the team regardless of how many donations you receive from NO Alumni. 5. It's not covered in Dulac. 4. You might never have a chance to see Lyonite's legs through black net. 3. You don't have to wait for an SYR to be set up. 2. Get to spike a Lyonite... You'll really dig it! 1 . It may be your only chance to score at NO!  

Notre Dame, IN 46556 NEED PURDUE AND STANFORD I desperately need a G.A. or student I need 6 Purdue GA's 
MARGE

or CALl: GA'S. MONEY NO OBJECT. CALL ticket for Penn State-call Jahnelle call Kathleen X4092
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX 
287-6730 (Leave message) RON x2001 at 283-2998
CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
see CLASS/page 1( 

----~ ---------~--------·-------~~----------­
page 11
The Observer 

NFL STANDINGS  TRANSACTIONS  MLB STANDINGS  
BASEBALL  
AMERICAN Eaat Buffalo Miami Indianapolis  CONFERENCE w L T Pet. 3 0 0 1.000 2 0 0 1.000, 2 0 .333  PF 112 53 24  PA 38 33 61  American League DETROIT TIGERS-Named Gary Vine assistant general manager. National League CHICAGO CUBS-Recalled George Pedre, catcher, from  AMERICAN LEAGUE East Division w L Toronto 88 63 Milwaukee 83 67  Pet. .583 .553  GB 41/2  
New England  0  2  0  .000  6  24  Charlotte of the Southern League.  Baltimore  82  67  .550  5  
N.Y. Jets  0  3  0  .000  41  78  SAN DIEGO PADRES-Announced they are moving lheir  Cleveland  71  79  .473  161/2  
Central Pittsburgh Cincinnati Houston Cleveland Weal  3 2 2 1  0 1 1 2  0 0 0 0  1.000 .667 .667 .333  79 68 67 54  40 48 59 57  Canfornia League affiliate from High Desert to Rancho Cucamonga. Reached a working agreement with Rancho Cucamonga for \Wo years. SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Signed Chris Wimmer, infielder. BASKETBALL  New York 71 Detroit 71 Boston 67 Wast Division w  79 80 84 L  .473 .470 .444 Pet.  161/2 17 21 GB  
Denver Kansas City  2 2  1,  0 0  .667 .667  38 70  56 40  National Basketball Association CHARLOTIE HORNETS-Signed J.R. Reid, forward, to a  Oakland 92 Minnesota 83  59 67  .609 .553  81/2  
Seattle LA Raiders San Diego NATIONAL Eaat  1 2 0 .333 0 3 0 .000 0 3 0 .000 CONFERENCE w L T Pet.  20 50 29 PF  53 69 68 PA  multiyear contract extension. Continental Basketball Association ALBANY PATROONS-Traded Greg Grant, guard, to the Rapid City Thrillers for Michael Curry and Marcus Stokes, forwards. Signed Andrew Adderley, Ken McFadden and Sean  Chicago 81 Texas 72 California fJ7 Kansas City 67 Seattle S7  69 79 82 83 94  .540 .4n .450 .447 .3n  101/2 20 24 241/2 35  
Dallas  3  0  0  1.000  88  58  Gay, guards. Acquired Ricky Butler and the rights to Vernel  Monday's Games  
Philadelphia  3  0  0  1.000  76  27  Singleton, guards, from Rapid City in exchange for the rights  Detroit 6, Boston 5, 10 innings  
Washington N.Y.Giants Phoenix Central Minnesota  2 0 0 2  1 2 3 1  0 0 0 0  .667 .000 000 .667  47 42 41 66  50 65 85 71  to Kennard Winchester, guard. FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Leonard Allen, forward. ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Traded Tim Dillon, Daren Jenkins and Derrall Dumas, forwards, to the Albany Patroons  Baltimore 4, Milwaukee 1 Oakland 6, Chicago 5 Kansas Ciity3, Seattle 0 Only games scheduled  
Tampa Bay  2  1  0  .667  74  36  for Kenny Travis, guard. Signed Sean Muto, center.  
Chicago  1  1  0  .500  33  52  TAl-CITY CHINOOK-Signed Calvin Duncan, guard­ Tuesday's Games  
Detroit  1  2  0  .333  65  57  assistant coach, and Alan Pollard, forward.  Late Games Not lnduded  
Green Bay  1  2  0  .333  47  77  YAKIMA SUN KINGS-Traded Joe Frederick, guard, to lhe  New York 6, Detroit 5, 12 innings, 1st  
We&. New Orleans San Francisco Atlanta LA Rams  2 2 1 1  1 1 2 2  0 0 0 0  .667 .667 .333 .333  51 93 44 31  28 62 51 66  Omaha Racers for a 1 993 fourth-round draft choice and future considerations. United States Basketball League USBL-Named Steve Kirck marketing coordinator.  Detroit at New York, 2nd game, (n) Cleveland 4, Boston 2 Toronto at Baltimore, (n) California at Milwaukee, (n)  
FOOTBALL  Chicago 8, Oakland 3  
Sunday'• Gemee Green Bay 24, Cincinnati 23 Philadelphia 30, Denver 0  National Football League GREEN BAY PACKERS-Waived Maury Toy, running back, from the practice squad. Signed Bren Collins, linebacker, to  Kansas City 3, Seattle 0 Minnesota at Texas, (n) Wednesday's Games  
Houston 23, Kansas City 20, OT  the practice squad.  Detroit (Doherty 6-4) at New York (Hitchcock 0-1),  
New Orleans 10, Atlanta 7  LOS ANGELES RAMS-Placed David Rocker, defensive  Cleveland (Nagy 15-1 0) at Boston (Taylor 0-0)  
San Francisco 31, New York Jets 14  tackle, on injured reserve. Signed Eric Hayes, defensive  Toronto (Morris 19-5) at Baltimore (Rhodes 5-5)  
Seattle 10, New England 6 Minnesota 26. Tampa Bay 20 Cleveland 28, Los Angeles Raiders 16 Washington 13, Detrort 10 Miami 26. Los AngeleS Rams 10  tackle. SAN DIEGO CHARGE AS-Relinquished the rights to Joe Phillips, nose tackle. Canadian Football League  California (Abbott 7-14) at Milwaukee (Eldred 9-1) Oakland (Moore 15-11) at Chicago (McCaskill 10-t 2) Seattle (Fisher 2-2) at Kansas City (Pichardo 9·5) Minnesota (Trombley 2-1) at Texas (Brown 19-10)  

Dallas 31, Phoenix 20 
Pittsburgh 23, San Diego 6 
Buffalo 38, Indianapolis 0 
Monday'• Game New York Giants at Chicago, late. 
Sunday, Sept. 27 Atlanta at Chicago, 1 p.m. Buffalo at New England. 1 p.m. Denver at Cleveland, 1 p.m. Minnesota at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. San Diego at Houston, 1 p.m. Tampa Bay at Detrort, 1 p.m. Miami at Seattle, 4 p.m. New York Jets at los Angeles Rams. 4 p.m. Pittsburgh at Green Bay, 4 p.m. San Francisco at New Orleans. 8 p.m. 
Monday, Sept. 28 los Anaeles Raiders at Kansas Crty, 9 p.m. 
OPEN bATE: Dallas, Indianapolis. New York Giants, Philadelphia. Phoenix. Washington. 
TORONTO ARGONAUTS-Fired Adam Rita, coach. Named Dennis Meyer interim coach. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
NEW JERSEY DEVILS--Assigned Chuck Hughes, goalie, and David Craievich, defenseman, to Cincinnati of the International Hockey League. Returned Ryan Black, Pascal Rheaume, Jeff Toms and Stephane Yelle, forwards, to their junior teams. Waived Steve Pottie, goalie; Mike Barrie, Shane Calder and Bren Marietti, forwards; and Brent Pope, Brandon Smith and Joel Yates, defensemen. 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Returned Eric Cairns, defenseman, to Detroit of the Ontario Hockey League; Barry Young, defenseman, to Sudbury of the OHL; and Lubes Rob, right wing, to Motor Ceske of the Czechoslovak League. Released Glen Craig, defenseman. Named John Gentile director of administration and Matt Loughran manager of team operations. 
PHILADELPHIA FLYEAS-Signed Viacheslav Butsayev, center. 
ST. LOUIS BLUES-Assigned Nathan Lafayette, forward, to Cornwall of the Ontario Hockey League and Brandon Coates, forward, to Portland of the Western Hockey League. 
(.;0LLt:.ut:. 
MERRIMACK-Named Chris Cameron cross-country coach. 
NORTHERN ILLINOIS-Named Jim Schaus assistant athletic director for development. 
RUTGERS-Suspended Jay Bellamy, Tim Geckeler and lbH~ l<~rk"''" nef•msive backs: Jim Guarnera. defensive end: and Kareem Williams, guard, indefinitely due to violations of 
the team code of conduct. 

The Student Activities Office Presents: 


JIM WAND Master Hypnotist 
Wednesday, September 30th at 8:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium 
Tickets--$3.00 on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk Starting Wednesday, Sept. 23rd! 

Grab your friends and discover what they really can do!! Act Like Gorillas, Sing Like Madonna .... 
Women's Soccer Top 20 
1. North Carolina 6-0 2. Stanford 3-0 3. Connecticut 5-0 
4. Hartford s-o 5. Portland 6-0 
6. Central Flordia 3-0 7. Virginia 4-1 8. SMU 5-1 
9. William and Mary 6-1 10. Massachusetts 5-0 
11. 
N.C. State 4-2 

12. 
Santa Clara 4-2 13. Wis.-Madison 3-2-1 14. Duke 4-2 15. Cai.-Berkley 3-2-1 


16. NOTRE DAME 4-1-1 17. Cornell 4-1 
18. 
James Madison 4-1-1 

19. 
Co. College 4-0 20. Yale 3-Q 



'B1\!TT09{S 
'Ba[[()cms, Cartfs, (jifts, ant£ ~ntique.s 
(219) 271-2001 
9fours: 

'Mon-Sat 10·9 Swufay 10·6 1627'Edison 'il,pad • South. 'Bend, !9{46637 ~cross tlit street from Line6ack.?r·ad)acent to Jamison Inn •$5.00 coupon · witft $15.00 minimum purcftase • 'Britton 1(nowks · OWner 


Through the auspices of the Lilly Grant fund, Gender Studies presents a lecture by and roundtable wilh 
HENRY A. GIROUX 
"Border Pedagogy: Cultural Difference and the Politics of Hope" 
Thursday, September 24 
8pm 

Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Roundtable immediately following Prof. Giroux's talk 
Roundtable Participants: Eileen Kolman, Dean, Freshman Year of Studies Al Neiman, Assistant Dean, Director, Core Program Ava Collins, Director, Gender Studies 
Pedagogical Workshop with Professor Giroux in attendance will be held Friday, September 25 lOam Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center 
---~ ------------~-------~--~ 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, September 23,1992 
Irish hockey team prepares for new season and new conference 
By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
On Monday afternoon the Notre Dame hockey team took the ice for the first time this season, their first in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association since 1982-83. 
Though the CCHA is one of the toughest conferences in the country, Irish coach Ric Schafer is confident about the upcoming season, which opens on October 17 versus Michigan. 
"We've played (CCHA) teams before, and all too often we've come up short," Schafer com­mented. "But now we can en­tertain notions of beating them. It is not like we are moving from Division I to Division III." 
Schafer will be counting on a trio of players to make the transition into the CCHA a smooth one. Junior captain Matt Osiecki will provide lead­ership and anchor the defense, while Curtis Janicke and David Bankoske will provide two ex­perienced scorers. 
The key to the Irish's success could be the return of three­time leading scorer Bankoske, who missed almost all of last year due to injury. 
"David is an offensive threat every time he is on the ice," said Schafer of the fifth-year senior. 
Another player who should be in top form is junior goaltender 




Class 
continued from page 1 0 
Attention! Earn $25001 Students, Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips At Your School! SpringBreak 1·800-678·6386. 
SPRING BREAK '93 · SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. CALL 1·800·648-4849. 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655·3124. 
adv beginner looking for tennis partner 233· 3059. 
ATIENTION BUSINESS MAJORS Ever thought about a career in advertising? Join Leo Burnett Company of Chicago at Univ. Club, THURSDAY SEPT 24 at 8pm. FREE APPLES! 
TOP 10 BELATED QUOTES FROM 
NORTHWESTERN-THE LABOR DAY 
WEEKEND SHOW 
10. WE JUST HAVE TO DROP OFF SOME MOVIES. 
9. 6,000 (?) PEOPLE IN THIS STADIUM AND NOBODY'S GOT A SMOKE? 
8. WHICH IS LONGER, THE NILE OR THE AMAZON? 
7. HEY MOLLY-REMEMBER ME? 
6. THIS GIRL LOOKS LIKE SHE NEEDS A SHOT! 
5. LOOK! A MCCOPI UH ... MCOFFICER? 
4. I COULD NEVER TAKE OFF MY CLOTHES AND LAY THERE WHILE SOME MAN ATIACKED MY BODY WITH A NEEDLE! 
3. WHY ARE YOU EATING A LIME? 
2. IS THAT A CORONA IN YOUR POCKET OR ARE YOU JUST HAPPY TO SEE ME? 
1. SEE, I TOLD YOU CHICAGO WAS ONLY A 1/2 HOUR FROM SOUTH BEND! 
THANKS PETE AND RON! WE'VE NEVER BEEN THAT FAR THAT FAST BEFORE! LOVE, KATIE AND TRISH 
•••••••HELP!!!!!!!!!! BEAUTIFUL, BUT DESPARATE, GIRL NEEDS A RIDE HOME TO 
PHI LA. AREA FOR OCT. BREAK. WILLING TO PAY GAS, TOLLS. CALL LIZ X2373 
PHISH bootleg exchange call Bridget at X2818 for INFO 

Greg Louder, who missed the first half of last season with a broken hand. Though he returned to the team, he never regained the form which he showed in his freshmen year, after which he was selected in the fifth-round of the National Hockey League draft by the Edmonton Oilers. 
"If summer training is any indication, Greg is as fit as he's been in his life," Schafer. 
The Irish are going through this week's conditioning drills with 46 players. When, the team begins actual practices Schafer's first task will be cut­ting the team down to 30 and eventually 27 players. 
Once the final roster is in tact, the Irish will begin to work to­ward its goal of establishing it­self as a team to reckon with in the CCHA. 
"Over the last few years, we've paid our dues," Schafer explained. "Now, we're thrown into a totally different game. Both the players and the coaches are going to have to become more disciplined to make an impact in the CCHA." 

Notre Dame dropped out of the CCHA in 1983, when the team competed on the club level for one season. In 1984-85 the team returned to the varsity level as an independent. a status it maintained through last season, though the Irish did face several CCHA teams in preparation for their return to the league. 
SPORTS BRIEFS ..:..  
.. : ND/SMC women's lacrosse is still looking for members. Questions?. Call Heather at 284~51 03 or Cathy at 283-4998. Th~ ~ampus2"person golf scramble.~t take pJ~ce on September 27~ Tbe tournament .is open to aU ~tudents, faculty and staff•.Sign up as an individual or in pairs. Entries and entry fees due by September 23. N[). Varsity Hockey is J{)oking for statisticiatls and videotapers for the upcoming season. Anyoqe interested please call assistant coachJim Johnson at 239-5227x NO Tae Kwon Do C1ub will be having class in the fencing gym Wednesd~:~;y at 8 p~m. Questions? Call Tim Kalamaros at 277t~f'~7Y SMC Running Club will hold an organizational meeting on September 23 at 8:30 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. All students are welcome. Irish Youth Hockey League is looking tor ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays f:rom 6~8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. ND/SMC Field Hockey will hold practice on September 23, 28 and 30 at 9 p.m. for all interested. For more information, call Liz at 283•2670. Fellowship of Christian Athletes will be playing Walleyball at 5 p,m~ today at the JACC Court #2. Everyone is welcome.  

Friday night. .. MO MONEY! -MO MONEY Sell a picnic by the lake 
me your Purdue GA's to get ... MO MONEY! r--------------------------,under the moonlight I promise you'll stay awake. Casual attire & RUNNING SHOES 
Just you and me, my shorts, and Harry's recipe. RSVP 
Fay. 

When they expand ND Stadium, shouldn't they rename it DITKA? 

call Tom 289·8735 

Roses are radish, violets are bluish; if it weren't for Jesus, we'd all be Jewish 
Do it in a cup. When the cup is full, stop. 
Hi Cricky, Kathy, and Kerg-­Have a nice day!!! Good Luck on Shakespeare, Kavs and Mass. Love Peggy 

Hot Tamale, You're the greatest boyfriend ever, even though you are extra-ornery! Have a day! love, MOl 
Ditched by the Yellow Suburban, eh? 
Hope you had a great 18thffl 
Love, your septran sisters, the domer and the SMC chic. 


Heavenly 
Dinner Deal 

Every Sunday to Wednesday 
Spaghetti 6 Tomato Sauce 


$2.99 
per person 
If thou has not tasted our delicious Italian offerings, here's a temptation: our very own Spaghetti and Classic Tomato Sauce Dinner. This sinful portion includes homemade Minestrone soup or crisp salad and devilishly hot loaves of San Francisco sourdough bread. An enlightening offer good Sundays thru Wednesdays until October 28, 1992. 

it... 
Spaghetti Warehouse 
• Great Italian Food. All-American Fun. 4 
501 North Niles • In The Works Hotel • 232-4414 
Good Sunday rhrough Wednesday, unril Ckrolx>r •B. 199•. dinner only. 
Not good with other discounts, coupons or specials. 

The Observer 
News Department is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Business Editor 
Please submit a resume and personal statement to David Kinney by 5 p.m. Thursday, Sept. 24. For more info, call239-5303 
Wednesday, September 23,1992 The Observer page 13 
The Clippers, under coach
Pirates lose; magic number still five NBA 
Larry Brown, made the NBA playoffs for the first time in 16PITTSBURGH (AP) -Luis East. three runs on three hits for the seasons last year.
continued from page 16
Alicea drove in three runs and Stan Javier drove in two runs loss. 
St. Louis ended a 13-game los­ing streak against Pittsburgh. 
The loss means the Pirates ­who entered with a season high-tying 7-game lead over the Expos in the NL East -cannot clinch the division title during their two-game series in Montreal on Wednesday and Thursday. The Pirates' magic number for clinching is five. 
Pinch-hitter Craig Wilson drove in the deciding run in the sixth inning as the Cardinals beat Pittsburgh for just the third time in 18 games this season. 
Rheal Cormier (8-10) his fifth victory in his last five decisions. 
Lee Smith, who was 0-3 with a 9.64 ERA in three appear­ances this season against the Pirates, finished up for his 40th save, the second straight year he's had that many. 
Danny Jackson (7-12) gave up five runs on eight hits, struck out none and walked three over 5 1-3 innings. 
Phillies 5, Expos 2 
MONTREAL -Montreal lost its fourth straight, but lost no ground to Pittsburgh in the NL 
·for Philadelphia and Mike Hartley (6-6), the Phillies' third pitcher, worked three innings for the victory. 
Starter Jose DeLeon left after 
three innings with a sprained 
right knee sustained in a colli­
sion at home plate. 
Mitch Williams worked the 
ninth for his 26th save. 
Philadelphia led 3-0 on Juan 
Bell's sacrifice fly, DeLeon's RBI 
single and Javier's run-scoring 
groundou off Kent Bottenfield 
(0-2). 

The Phillies added two more 
runs in the fourth on Javier's 
RBI double and Mickey 
Morandini's run-scoring single. 
Mets 8, Cubs 7 
NEW YdRK Dick 
Schofield's bases-loaded two­
run single in the eighth inning 
drove lifted New York. 
Lee Guetterman (3-4), who al­
lowed one hit over the final two 
innings, got the victory. 
Anthony Young gave up a two­
run homer to Gary Scott in the 
ninth, but finished for his 15th 
save. 

Paul Assenmacher (4-4), 
Chicago's third pitcher, gave up 

Schofield's hit broke a 5-all tie and followed a walk by Eddie Murray, a bunt-single by Jeff McKnight and an inten­tional walk to Todd Hundley. 
Ryan Thompson hit his first major-league homer, a three­run shot in the fourth inning. 
Reds 4, Astros 3 

CINCINNATI -Bip Roberts got his ninth straight hit -one shy of the NL record -and Cincinnati won its sixth straight, beating the Houston Astros 4-3 Tuesday to complete a doubleheader sweep. 
Roberts, who did not play in Cincinnati's 6-3 victory in the opener, went 3 for 3 with two doubles in the second game. He left after seven innings. 
The NL record of 10 consecu­tive hits has been accomplished six times since 1900, most re­cently by Woody Williams of the Reds in 194:J. The major league record is 12 straight by Boston's Pinky Higgins in 1938 and Detroit's Walt Dropo in 1952. 
Roberts doubled and scored in the first inning on Barry Larkin's groundout. Roberts later singled, then he doubled home Dave Martinez for a 3-2 lead in the fifth off Shane Reynolds (0-3). Larkin followed with an RBI double. 
Scott Bankhead (10-4) re­lieved Chris Hammond and pitched out of a bases-loaded threat in the fifth by getting Ken Caminiti to fly out. 
said. 
The Clippers and Knicks swap point guards, with Los Angeles getting the younger player. Rivers, 31, averaged 10.9 points and 3.9 assists last year in Los Angeles. Jackson, 27, recovered from a horrible 1990-91 season to score 11.3 points and average 8.6 assists last year. 
"I've been playing the waiting game for three weeks now. I'm very excited to have this opportunity to come to the Clip­pers. It's a young talented bunch that's headed in the right direction," Jackson said. 
"I don't think you can find a player in this league who wouldn't enjoy playing with Pat Ewing or wouldn't enjoy being coached by Pat Riley," Rivers told KMPC-AM in Los Angeles. 
Orlando will get a chance to continue building their club through the draft. 
"We feel we've had some tremendous success in the past college drafts," said director of player personnel John Gabriel. The Magic has built its team through the draft, getting 19.9­point scorers Dennis Scott and Nick Anderson in the 1989 and 1990 drafts. Roberts was the No. 1 pick in 1991. 
Roberts' original unwilling­ness to move was puzzling after the Magic made Shaquille O'Neal the first pick overall in this year's draft and signed him to a seven-year, $40 million deal. Roberts would have been stuck behind O'Neal in Orlando, while in Los Angeles he figures to be the starter on an up-and­coming team. 
Do you want a job or an internshipwith the State Department? 
Come to an informational meeting at 7:00p.m. in the Dooley Room at LaFortune tonight! 
Sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha 
"They already have great young players in Danny (Manning), (Ron) Harper, Gary (Grant) and Ken Norman. It was a pretty simple decision once I took the time to really think about it," Roberts said. 
Roberts averaged 10.4 points and 6.1 rebounds as a rookie, despite battling weight trouble, and was signed by the Dallas Mavericks to a five-year, $14.4 million offer sheet with the no­trade clause. The Magic matched the offer. 
Baylor said Smith's refusal to sign a long-term contract with the Clippers forced them to trade him. 
"The only club Charles would talk with contract-wise was New York. We thought that it made good basketball sense to get something for Charles. We got two starters. 
"If Charles wanted to sign a contract with us, this trade would not have been made," Baylor said. 
·,":, 

Kimble, entering his third year in the league, could have a tough time making the Knicks, who already have Rolando Blackman, John Starks and rookie Hubert Davis at the off­guard spot. 
After the trade was an­nounced, the Knicks renounced their rights to free agent Gerald Wilkins, their starter at shooting guard last season. The trade was the Knicks' third of the offseason as they acquired Blackman from Dallas and Tony Campbell from Minnesota. 


Weak 
continued from page 16 
against a I-AA team wouldn't count for a thing. In fact, I'd leave the team out of my Top 10 for the week, no matter how good they truly were. As for a team like the Nittany Lions, well, when they play a real game, then I'd start voting for them. 
The Castle &Co. Is Your New Wolf Tanning Center 
featuring: 
• 
New Wolf Tanning Beds • Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Facial Tanners • Stereo & Body Cooling With Every Lounge. 


272-0312 The Castle 



page 14 The Observer Wednesday, September 23,1992 



'Great One' out indefinitely with back problem 
University of Notre Dana• International Study Progran1s JERUSALEM FOR SPRING 1993? Sophomores And Juniors Who Haven't Heard the News Come For Information Meeting 
Wednesday, September 23, 6:30PM I 07 O'Shaughnessy 
-"" 
Don't Be a Campus Potato!! Take a Trip to TENEX Computer Express on Us! 
And witness first-hand some ofthe best deals on some of the best "School Tools" around!! 
WE MAKE SHOPPING A BREEZE! 
FREE Transportation Please call to arrange for free transportation at 219/272-1234! Also, Transpo buses drop off and pick up on the corner ofGrape Rd and Douglas (just one block from TENEX). 
Delivery TENEX will arrange for prompt delivery of purchases. 
....--;:.:: PNirtY' ttuia'f{ 
$16999 
Panasonic KX-P2180 Color Quiet Printer 
•9-pin dot matrix 

' Panasonic Letter Quality KX-P2123 Quiet Printer 
•24-pin dot matrix 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. (AP) -A back injury might keep Wayne Gretzky, the NHL's all-time leading scorer, sidelined for the upcoming season. 
Dr. Robert Watkins of the Kerlan-Jobe Clinic said Tuesday that Gretzky, the Los Angeles Kings' star, has a herniated thoracic disk. 
Watkins refused to speculate on when Gretzky might return, but said that while the injury could possibly be career-end­ing, the prognosis for a full re­covery is very good. 
Watkins said it was a "one-in­a-millon injury, a most unusual spine injury." He said surgery is not being contemplated. 
Gretzky, 31, checked into Centinela Hospital Medical Center last Wednesday -two days after his wife, Janet Jones, gave birth to their third child. Gretzky remained hospitalized until early Tuesday. 
"There's a possibility he'll return this year," Watkins said. ''I'm not going to speculate on that time. That's as specific as I'm going to get." 
Gretzky said he didn't know where or when the injury oc­curred and that he has been bothered by soreness in his ch­est, a symptom of this kind of injury, since last March. 
"When I was hurting in March and April and May, I had no idea where I got hit, how long ago," he said. "When the season ended, I went on a holiday with my family. I spent some time in a clinic in Hawaii. I thought I had sore ribs." 
Gretzky said at times the pain went away, and added that he felt very good at training camp. He also felt a lot better Tuesday than he did last Wednesday. 

''I'm in the best care possi­ble," he said. "We're very op­timistic. There are a lot of fac­tors ahead of me. We have to take it one day at a time. 
"I woke up Tuesday morning with this soreness and checked into the hospital Wednesday. The only thing I'm dealing with right now is getting rid of the pain so I can walk down the street with you guys. I'm going to be as aggressive, as hard­working on this, as possible. 
"For those people who said 'Wayne Gretzky never gets hit,' I'm up here proving that it's a lie." 
Gretzky called for the NHL to enforce rules on hitting from behind. Although he said he wasn't certain how he was in­jured, it seemed clear he be­lieves that a hit from behind, or more than one hit, caused his current problem. 
"That's an excellent way to get this kind of injury," Watkins said. 
The doctor said the disk has extracted out into the spinal canal, putting intense pressure on one of the nerves in Gret­zky's ribs. There is no evidence of injury to the spinal cord, Watkins added. 
"This is something that has the potential for complete re­covery," Watkins said. "We're optimistic he will recover. To try to make a parallel to another case would be just inap­propriate." 
Watkins has also treated two other famous backs -that of hockey star Mario Lemieux of the Pittsburgh Penguins and baseball star Daryl Strawberry of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Strawberry recently underwent surgery. 
Gretzky has been on medica­tion and that, along with com­plete rest, has helped rid him of much of his pain. Watkins said Gretzky would not have to be put in traction. 
Gretzky made it clear he wants to return whenever pos­sible. 
"First of all, it's my life," he said. "Right now, I don't have anything on my plate or on my mind that excites me to that level. Everyone in life has something they love to do. I have to give it my best effort. From the first day, I've been very positive about it." 
Kings own~r Bruce McNall said he was less concerned Tuesday than he was a few days earlier, before the problem was diagnosed. 
''I'm more concerned about his pain and his health than his return to hockey," McNall said. "He's obviously had some pain for several months. To imagine his possibly playing hockey throughout the (1992) playoffs is absolutely remarkable. 
"You can't replace Wayne Gretzky, nobody can. I hope the team rallies around him. It isn't a one-man sport. I think it will be an interesting test." 
Gretzky has been nicknamed "The Great One" and his num­ber, 99, is a synonym for "great" in Canada. 
He has also been called the "Babe Ruth of hockey," and for 
Software at Great Educational Prices! * Only $79°0 -Lotus 1-2-3 DOS Version 2.4 Only $10900 -Lotus 1-2-3 Windows Version 1.1 Only $13500 -'X'ordPerfect Version 5.1 
*Student/faculty 1.0. required! Prices are for a limited time only! 
good reason. No player in his­tory has dominated his sport the way Gretzky has. 
Every hockey fan from Austin to Boston knows of Gretzky's accomplishments-a nine-time MVP and nine-time scoring champion. 
He is the only player in NHL history with 2,000 points, sur­passing Gordie Howe's le­gendary record of 1,850 on Oct. 15, 1989, in a dramatic return to Edmonton, where he had played for 10 brilliant seasons. 
He did it in Gretzky style. The record-breaking point was scored with 53 seconds left in regulation and tied the game. He then scored in overtime to give the Kings a 4-3 victory. 
Prior to this season, Gretzky had scored 2,263 points in 13 seasons. 
Probably the most amazing of all of ~retzky's numbers is that he has broken the 200-point barrier four times -in a sport where 100 is a great accom­plishment. Among his more than 50 records, Gretzky also holds one-season records for goals (92). assists (163) and points (215). 
He has also been named MVP of the Stanley Cup playoffs on two occasions and twice named All-Star MVP, once when he scored an amazing four goals in one period. 
Gretzky's staggering point to­tals have also proved good pub­licity for the league. His ac­complishments have been such a quantum leap statistics-wise that it made non-hockey fans sit up and take notice. 
Gretzky is perhaps even more valuable to the NHL off the ice, where fans and media alike have found that he is perhaps the most accessible star in the history of any sport. 

Computer Express  5205 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219/272-1234 FAX: 219/273-0393 Store Hours: M-F 10am-7pm Sat: 10am-5pm (located just south ofDouglas Road)  (! Commodore"AMIGA" ~ N o v E L L~ authorized authorized All TENEX Systems are I 00% I~M-Compatible  







Today
Wednesday, September 23,1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
NOW, BEUX.V US IS CALVIN r-:::::::=:=:::::11 t. ft08BES AN D 0N 1lt6 
FOI...L-OWlNln nt£ VACATION 
G)(oDuS OF THE SPELUNK£R ftT SIPt OF ntS Pl\6!6
CAST, TH£ CARTIJONIST 
lHE. FAR SID£.

SlfoWS Tftf NEW G!VY I!ROUND. 
Calvin and Hobbes by Bill Watterson 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

..__,._,__ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Washington's bill 60 Sicilian resort 30 Con's opposite 62 Dash
1 Dolls' sounds 31 Impulse 63 Naturalist Edwin 
6 Famous seven 34 Short distance Way-­10 Kind of test 37 Provide meals 64 One of Alcott's 14 Cremona 39Ga. "Little Women" artisan thoroughfare 65 Astronaut Sally 15 Lhasa cleric 42 Ziti or orzo 66 Everglades bird 16 City in Bergen 43 Foot part 
67 Decorative knob 44 TotsCounty, N.J. 

17 Panamanian 68 Prophet
45 Modern bus. 

city 69 Lassos
need 18 Jot 

46 Tuck's partner 

19 Chickpea, e.g. 
48 Shade tree DOWN 20 Avocado 
so Put more powder 1 Large parrot 

23 Like Willie into a musket Winkie 2 Soap plant 
52 Norman town 
3 French film 24 Level 

54 Ball. or N.Y.C. 
director25 Attu natives 57 Flatterer or 4 Thine, in Aries 28 Lima Mme. sycophant 

5 Nobelist Isaac Bashevis­6 Blackboard ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Industrialist 
Cyrus-­8Cupid 9 Small Chinese 
boat 10 Water plants 11 Made venal 12 Mrs. Cantor 13 Dull, as a light 21 Halt!, at sea 22 Choose 26 Cornered 27 Kinds 40 Medieval goblet28 Religious 41 Prepare peas 

denomination 29 Oil gp. 47 Flaneurs 31 Word with crust 49 Emulate 47 or hand Down 

BILL WATIERSON 
I nm-IK ti\Otl\ LEITE~ IN SHOT PUI 1-\t.R JUNIOR '/EAR . 
\ 


Giraffe limousines 
CAMPUS Wednesday 
3:30 p.m. Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Seminar, "Hydrogen Transport Modeling in Metals with Application to Environmentally Assisted Cracking," James Thomas, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C. Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 
4 p.m. "Interviewing Skills: The Campus Interview," presented by Paul Reynolds. Room 124 Hayes-Healy Center. Sponsored by Career & Placement Services. 
4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "The Physics of Baseball," Prof. R. Adair, Yale University. Room 118, Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by physics department. 
6 p.m. Alcoholics Anonymous Meeting. Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, La Fortune. 
Wednesday 
7 p.m. Panel Lecture: "Testing, Grading, and Fairness: Professional Development Workshops." Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune. Sponsored by the Graduate Student Union. 
Thursday 
12:15 p.m. Brown bag seminar, "Framed or Be Framed: The U.S. Peace Movement, the Media and National Security Debates," Jackie Smith, graduate Student. Room 103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 
MENU

5656 (75¢ each minute). 


5&Weight allowances 58 Nobelist Wiesel 59 Utah's lily so Wane 61 Modernist 
.. 


~J~


SJ/!
~~ 
______.J L,.________Jo 
Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, September 23,1992 
RICH KURZ 

Eye in the Sky 
Miami open with 'tough' games 
What exactly did Miami prove by beating Florida A&M last Saturday? Or how about the Nittany Lions picking on Eastern Michigan? These teams aren't alone among strong Division I teams playing glorified scrimmages on a regular basis. 
The Hurricanes, for a change, have a more than respectable schedule, taking on a number of Top 20 teams. But if the 'Canes really don't want to exert a lot of effort, then they shouldn't schedule a game, instead of playing a I­AA school that is more famous for its band than for its football team. 
At least Miami showed their sensitive side, holding the score down to 38-0. It could have been a lot worse. 
A few years ago, Stanford was kind enough to invite Cornell out to their homecoming game. There was only one catch, though -Cornell, a I-AA team competing in the Ivy League, had to play the Cardinal. So what did the Big Red gain from the beating? A pocketful of cash and a nice trip to California. 
But this season, Penn State gets the big bully award for their schedule. The Nittany Lions need only six victories this year to qualify for the Blockbuster Bowl, and they could probably get the necessary wins without even putting their starters in the game. 
The Lions opened with Cincinnati, Temple and Eastern Michigan, and play Maryland and Hutgers before their regular season begins. Five games, five clearly inferior teams. Joe Paterno, a man of integrity? More like the neighborhood bully. 
In the NFL, most teams play four exhibition games before the 16 regular games. In the college game, most teams play a pushover or two before taking on the meat of the schedule. Penn State plays five. 
Probably the best way to discourage this practice is to penalize the of­fenders. Obviously, there isn't anything short of putting teams on probation that the NCAA could do in an official capacity. 7 At least some of the bowl games, not normally known for their restraint, are doing something to stop teams from loading up on victories against 1-AA teams. 
A few years ago, some of the smaller bowls began to require teams to have at least six victories against Division I teams, which disqualified some that played two or three Division I-AA teams. Now if there was just some way that top-20 teams could be stopped from playing too many of their much lesser Division I siblings. 
But maybe there is a way. Voters in the polls have a great deal of influence, and they should use it for the good of the game in these situations. 
Personally, if I were voting, a win 
see WEAK/page 13 
see pag~ 14 · 
•National·League roundup ... ·· 
seepage 
13 
•nrtsh hockey prepares for CCHA 
· · <}s~page1~ 
.:.:.:-:::::::-.·.. ·:::~~:~:=·=:: :." ·.·. 

Norman to start at guard against Purdue 
~~ 
~ 

The Observer I John Bingham Todd Norman (66) shown here in last year's Blue-Gold game will start his first game of the year after recovering from a knee injury. 
Cavanaugh defeats Sarin in men's interhall opener 

By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Writer 

Cavanaugh Hall regained its respect on Sunday, teaching a valuable lesson to the men from Sorin. Midway into the third quarter of a scoreless game, the 'Naugh stifled the Sorin offense, forcing them to punt. As the punter set himself, freshman Paul Townley broke through the line and dove, blocking the punt back toward the Sorin goal. The ball was recovered at the one-yard line, and Ryan Neselhuf was in one play later on a quarterback sneak for the only score of the game. 
The special teams play broke the game open after both defenses held each other to less than 30 yards of offense in the first half. Spearheading the Cavanaugh defense were Nick Preservanti and Sean Cahill, who kept the clamps on the Sorin ground game. 
"We played well defensively, but there are still some things we have to work out before our game Sunday. But it's great to have a win under our belts," said coach Tony Nowak, who earned his first coaching victory Sunday. Cavanaugh takes its undefeated record into battle with St. Ed's next week. 
Flanner 13, Keenan 0 
Flanner showed no fear as it defeated the defending champs on Sunday. Mike Thompson scored on a five-yard run in the second quarter to take a 7-0 lead into halftime. In the second half, Mike Huie broke through the Keenan line and went 50 yards to ice the game. 
The Flanner line dominated despite losing quite a bit of size from last year. The defense played well as a unit, stopping the Keenan offense on a key fourth-down play late in the game. Planner has a bye this week, and Keenan will take on Dillon Sunday. 
Zahm 7, Alumni 2 
This primarily defensive game was riddled with penalties, and took a big play to open it up. The game broke open when Dave Bozanich picked off an Alumni pass, setting up a drive that ended with a 12-yard run by Rick Rios. 
Alumni was awarded a safety after Zahm was called for a holding penalty in their own end zone, making it the only game with both teams scoring. Zahm plays Fisher and Alumni has a bye. 
Carroll 6, Fisher 0 
The game remained scoreless until the fourth quarter, when Carroll started a drive that ended with a three-yard run from Dan Turner. The win continued Carroll's win streak from last year, when they were ruled ineligible before last year's championship game. 
The defense, led by Jack Hay, stuffed the Fisher offense inside their own 10 yard line, enabling it to preserve a shutout. Carroll takes on Sorin Sunday, and Fisher will play Zahm. 
Morrissey 6, Stanford 0 
Morrissey took the ball from their own 35 on their opening drive all the way for the only score of the game. Jamie McMillin hit Scott Taylor on a 30-yard pass for their only points. 
The Morrissey defense, keyed by the interceptions of Justin Kruer and Greg Burstein, kept a pesty Stanford offense out of the end zone to protect the lead and the victory. Morrissey will play off­campus and Stanford will battle Grace. Dillon 3, OfT-Campus 0 
This game was a game of field position from the start, punting it back and forth until Dillon got in range of the foot of kicker Anthony Cory, who booted a 35 yard field goal to defeat the tough Off­campus team. 
Defense will be a strong point for both teams as they go into their games on Sunday. Dillon will face defending champs Keenan, and Off-campus team will play Morrissey. 
Women's Wrap-Up 
In women's play, defending champs Breen-Phillips defeated the first woman's football team fielded from Pangborn, 30­6, to close out the schedule for Sunday. BP scored on every possession after watching Pangborn take their opening drive to the end zone for a quick 6-0 lead. Michele Hurst scored the first two touchdowns on outside runs, and quarterback Kim Smith threw for the other three scores, two to Wendy Mores, and one to Karen DuBay. 
The BP defense, led by Kelly Guerin with an interception, stuffed a potent Pangborn offense following their opening touchdown, and will put their undefeated record on the line against Walsh Wednesday night. 
Knicks, Clippers and Magic trade 
NEW YORK (AP) -Almost a Charles Smith and guards Doc month after it was first Rivers and Bo Kimble from agreed upon, a three-team the Clippers, and the Magic 
get New York's first-round
._iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ trade involving the New York 
Knicks, Orlando Magic and draft choice in 1993 and theINSIDE SPORTS Los Angeles Clippers was worst of LA's two No. 1 . . 
made Tuesday when Stanley selections in either 1993 or 
•Gretzky out Wtth back in}ury . Roberts agreed to waive a no-1994. 
trade clause and go to Los Roberts, 22, entering his Angeles. second season, held the trade 
The Clippers receive up for more than three weeks Roberts, a 7 -foot center, from while deciding whether to the Magic, and point guard waive the no-trade clause in­Mark Jackson and a 1995 cluded in a five-year, $14.4 second-round draft choice million deal he signed this from the Knicks. summer. 
The Knicks get forward "He did not like the way it was handled originally. He had been told he would not be moved. He was angry, he was mad. He just had reservations about LA," Clippers general manager Elgin Baylor said. 
Roberts was swayed during a visit to Los Angeles last weekend. 
"I had a great time during my weekend visit in LA. I was very impressed with the owner, Elgin, Coach Brown and the rest of the Clippers organization," Roberts said. "I felt like I had a pretty good season last year in Orlando, but now it's time to move on, build on that, and look forward to my future with a solid young franchise. 
"There's no hard feelings toward the Magic." 
In Smith, the Knicks get a 6­10 player who can be used at either forward position or at center. He averaged 14.6 points and 6.1 rebounds last season. 
"I can play the 3, backup Patrick (Ewing) at center, play power forward -it doesn't really matter to me," Smith 
see NBA!page 13 








