
1842·1992 

SfSQUICENUNNIAI. 
VOL. XXIV NO. 137 


~·~ 
.ge..


e Observer SaintMare~Cd~ 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 

MONDAY, APRIL 27, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

IU graduate student killed by former boyfriend 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) -An Indiana University graduate student who was shot to death by her former boyfriend had complained about harassing phone calls since their breakup in December, police said Friday. 
Susan Marie Clements, 23, of South Bend and 1990 graduate of Notre Dame with a PLS degree, was shot about 8 p.m. EST Thursday, police said. Her ex-boyfriend, Andreas Drexler, later shot himself, said George Huntington, the university's chief of police. 
A second student remained hospitalized in very critical condition Friday. 
Brown to visit campus 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Jerry Brown, Democratic presidential candidate and former governor of California, will be speaking at Notre Dame's Stepan Center Tuesday at noon. 
Brown, who is gearing up for the May 5 Indiana primary, is making his first visit to the South Bend area this campaign. 
The NO chapter of College Democrats invited Brown to come to the campus, according to chapter president Christine Kempf. She pointed out that, although the group is pleased to have Brown coming to cam­pus, his visit is not an endorse­ment by the group for his can­didacy. 
"We haven't backed a candi­date yet," she said. 
Despite the fact that Brown currently trails Arkansas Gov­ernor Bill Clinton in the number of committed delegates, Kempf believes that Brown should not be considered a lost cause. "Lots of delegates are still up for grabs. He's still a viable candidate," she said. 
Kempf said she hopes that Brown's visit will give students a chance to see what Brown stands for. "It will give them a chance to hear the message, not just a sound byte." 
Michael Yore, an NO gradu­ate student working on the Northern Indiana committee of the Brown campaign, said that Brown will probably speak about his refusing money from special interests and his record as governor of California. 
Yore believes that people should not consider the Demo­cratic campaign over. "Brown is a long-shot, but he's still in," Yore said. "Everybody can change their minds right up to the minute that they pull the lever (in the voting booth)." 
Brown's campaign, Yore said, is more significant than a sim­ple choice of a presidential candidate. "This is not just a matter of winning a primary. This will frame the debate of Democrats in the future." 
Steven Molen, 31, was shot in the left groin and underwent three hours of surgery at Bloomington Hospital, spokeswoman Michelle Flick said. 
Drexler, a 29-year-old German national and a graduate student at Stanford University, had dated Clements for about two years before they ended their relationship in De­cember, Huntington said. 
Clements complained on March 9 that Drexler was repeatedly harassing her with telephone calls. The university changed her telephone number and Clements thought that 
• 
NO reaction/ page 5 

• 
Victim profiles/ page 5 


would solve the problem, Huntington said. 
"She didn't feel it was an imminent threat," Huntington said. 
The university receives about 10 to 12 reports each week from female students complaining of harassment and Clements' case didn't seem unusual, he said. 
The incident began when Clements returned to her room on the 14th floor of Eigenmann Hall, which houses primarily graduate and foreign students, Huntington said. 
"We found Miss Clements' keys in the door, and she did not appear to have entered her room," Huntington said. 
Molen, an IU student from Salt Lake City, tried to break up an argument between Clements and Drexler in the hallway. A fourth student intervened and pulled Molen into another room, Huntington said. 
When Molen emerged a few minutes later, Drexler shot him and then Clements before he fled down the emergency stairway, Huntington said. Police found Drexler's body outside in a window behind a 7­foot-wide evergreen tree, Hunt­ington said. 
Monroe County Coroner Dennis Troy said Drexler shot himself about 9:30 p.m., an 
hour  and  a  half  after  he  
allegedly  shot  Molen  and  
Clements.  

Police recovered a second gun in the dormitory, but they said Drexler fired his shots from a 9mm Glock pistol. 
Huntington said the shooting appeared to be premeditated, but they were not sure when Drexler arrived in Bloomington. Police believe he drove to the campus but they had not recovered his car by Friday evening. 
Driver not charged in bus accident 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP)-No charges will be filed against the driver of a chartered bus that crashed three months ago in a snowstorm, killing two swimmers from the University of Notre Dame. 
A prosecutor said Friday a grand jury which reviewed the accident voted not to return an indictment. 
The bus driver, Howard Dixon, 53, of Mishawaka, was subpoenaed along with other witnesses, St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes said. 
The bus carrying members of the Notre Dame women's swim team slid off the Indiana Toll Road and overturned during a heavy snowstorm on Jan. 24 as the team returned from a meet at Northwestern University. 
The accident killed Margaret "Meghan" Beeler, 19, of Granger, and Colleen Hipp, 19, of St. Louis, and seriously in­jured Haley Scott, 18, of Phoenix, Ariz. 
Beeler's parents, Gordon and Kathy Beeler, filed a civil suit last month claiming that Dixon was driving too fast for condi­tions. The suit also named United Limo Inc., an Osceola­based company that owned the bus and hired Dixon. 
Barnes said that grand juries which issue indictments in acci­dent cases often charge reck­less homicide. "Reckless homi­cide calls for conduct that is 
see JURY/ page 4 



By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
Fourteen Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were given citations for underage drinking and one was cited for contributing to the delinquency of minors during a softball game at Clay Park last Friday, according to Sgt. Charlie Feir­rell of the Saint Joseph County Police Department. 
Also this weekend, officers from Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.) and the South Bend police raided the Cap n' Cork Lounge, 441 E. La Salle Ave., a little after midnight Saturday. Minor in tavern citations were issued to several students, whose names have not been released by police. 
Student Body President Greg Butrus was cited for contribut­ing to the delinquency of minors after admitting to supplying the alcohol and bringing it to the park, Feirrell said. Butrus faces up to 180 days in jail and a $1,000 fine for the class B misdemeanor. 
"It is more than likely that he won't go to jail and have to pay as much because he has no pre­vious criminal record," Feirrell added. 
Among others charged with minor in consumption, a class C misdemeanor, were District I Student Senator Tyler Farmer and Maura Cavanagh, Notre Dame junior class vice presi­dent. Observer Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant, Managing Editor John Rock and Ad Design Man­ager Kevin Hardman were also cited for underage drinking. 
George Dohrmann and Jason Kelly of Dillon; Elisa Kloster­man and Jenny Marten of Pas­querilla West; Kyle Kusek of Morrissey; Meredith McCul­lough of Badin Hall; Nicole Mc­Grath of McCandless Hall, Saint Mary's; and Sam Rauch of Pangborn were also charged with minor in consumption. 
The penalties for minor in consumption include up to 50 days in jail and a $500 fine. Feirrell said that the first-time offenders will likely receive a pretrial diversion program in­
volving a lesser fine and com­munity service. 
Names of the other students charged have not been made available by the police. 
According to Feirrell, the po­lice were alerted about the stu­dents drinking in Clay Park by a neighbor in the area. He said it was the third complaint in three weeks from people in the neighborhood about students causing problems in the park. 
Alcohol is prohibited in the 
see CITATIONS/ page 4 

1 
l 
____j 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Friendships don't end at midnight 
Patty, ponder these _______ 
scenarios: 

1) Joe Zahm has known Breeny Philips since the first week of school. They have always been good friends and they come to one another when they need to talk. Sue calls up 

Joe one evening and asks  KEVIN  
if he would mind coming  HARDMAN  
over.  The tone of Sue's  Ad Design  
voice  teIIs  him  that  _  ___:.M~a...n,.a;:.sq_..e._r__  
something  is  wrong.  

When he arrives he lind that she has been crying. It turns out that she has just broken up with her boyfriend of over a year. Joe tries his best to console her, but the 11:59 on the clock says its time to leave. Instead of forgoing the privacy of the room for the 24 hour lounge, they decide to continue the conversation at a latter date. 
2) It is finally Thursday night and Kelly's week of hell is over. Her good friend Dillon Dan ealls her up and asks if she would like to come over and watch a movie with some friends. Kelly Knott has been so busy that she hasn't seen Dan and the guys for a couple of weeks. She tells Dan that she would love to come over. Well it is 10:30 when they start the movie and the movie is an hour and forty­live minutes long. So Kelly leaves while the guys watch the rest of the film. 
3) Its Saturday night and Bobby and Jane are as frisky as two tasmanian devils in heat. They want sex and they want it now. They can't control themselves any longer. They could care less about morals or ethics and they even scoff at Roman Catholic doctrine. But by the time they get ready to vent their primal urges it is 2 a.m. They decide to close up shop and give it a go next weekend. 
Patty, what do you think are the most re­alistic of these scenarios? 
What parietals do is prevent us from nur­turing strong relationships with people of the opposite sex, not prevent us from having sex. I see many strong male-male friendships and many strong female-female friendships, but unless you are dating the person, it is extremely difficult for them to become a true friend. 
Patty, don't you see that this policy is hurting the student body more than it is helping it. I have become closest to my male friends at 2 or 3 in the morning. It's called "hanging out." We talk about our families, our fears, our aspirations, our goals and our dreams. That is whatfriends do. 
Do you actually think that without parietals the University's moral fiber would disintegrate. AIDS and pregnancy are two topics that people my age are not interested in. Patty, why not give the students some credit. We're glad we have someone like you to watch over use but no thanks. I always assumed Notre Dame was a place for growth. How can we truly grow into functioning adults when we only have to deal with the opposite sex from 11 -12 on weekdays and 11 -2 on weekends. 
Patty, is it worth jeopardizing fruitful friendships between the sexes in favor of making it harder for immoral people to do what they eventually will? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff Business News Colleen Gannon Meredith McCullough Pancho Lozano Emily Hage Production Lab Tech. Lisa Bourdon Garr Schwartz Graphics Systems Ann-Marie Conrado Paul Froning Viewpoint Accent Cheryl Moser Julie Wilkins Brian Stalter Jeannie Shin 
Chrissy Prask Sports Rene Ferran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday throughal'riday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Monday, Apil27, 1992 
Variable clouds, high ··• 
in the upper 40s. · Partly cloudy and colder tonight. Low 
in the upper 20s. 
Partly sunny and 
warmer Tuesday. High in the middle 50s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Ancnorage  50  37  
Athena  73  52  
Atlanta  57  43  
Bogota  89  90  
Boston  44  37  
Cairo  81  54  
·  Charlene, N.C.  58  47  
• Chicago  53  38  
·•  Cleveland  51  41  
:  Dallas  80  50  
•<  Detroit  55  43  
·::  Indianapolis  50  39  
· ·  Jerusalem  63  48  
London  57  50  
Los Ageles  80  62  
Madrid  82  48  
Minneapolis  50  40  
Moscow  45  89  
Nashville  51  42  
New York  61  41  

Paris  64  59  
PrBSSurs  ::  Philadelphia  57  45  
H  L  ~  ,:.  Rome Seattle  79 70  48 54  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-5TORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  South Bend Tokyo  4 8 68  27 54  
Via Associated PTBSs  Washington, D.C.  53  46  

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Jack Kerouac works to be released 
• LOWELL, Mass. -Four unpublished manuscripts by Jack Kerouac are to be released by the Beat writer's estate. John Sampas, brother of Kerouac's late wife, Stella Sampas, said two manuscripts and two books of poetry will be published. One of the poetry collections, "Poems All Sizes," features a series titled "Bowery Blues," about life in the New York City neighborhood. The second book of poetry, "Book of Blues," reflects Kerouac's impressions of his travels. No publication date has been set. The other works, "Wake Up" and "Some of the Dharma," are philosophical tomes that tell the life of Buddha, Sampas said. They are to be published in a single volume, probably by fall 1993, he said. 
Gasoline orices rise 
• LOS ANGELES -The price of gasoline rose nearly 2 cents during the past two weeks, an industry analyst said Sunday. The average pump price of all grades of gasoline increased 1.94 cents to 120.78 cents a gallon between April 10 and April 24, said Trilby Lundberg. The two primary reasons for the jump were higher demand and seasonal environmental restrictions that increase the cost of refining gasoline, she said. The Environmental Protection Agency requires refiners to use more expensive ingredients during warm-weather months to reduce the volatility of gasoline. The change increases costs and reduces yields. 

OF INTEREST 
• 
Transfer Orientation Staff sign-ups for this fall are at 7 p.m. tonight in the Foster Room of LaFortune. 

• 
"Hallelujah Night" will be performed at 7 p.m. tonight in Stepan Center. Several of the University of Notre Dame's singing ensembles will join gospel choirs from South Bend and Detroit during a celebration of Easter. 

• 
A Juggler poetry reading will take place at 7 p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Library Lounge 


• Night of the Assassins will be performed at 7:30 
p.m. tonight in Washington Hall. It is a repeat per­formance of the lab production seen this past fall. It will be the only performance before the show is taken to a Latin American theater festival. Admission is free. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ April 24 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 198,770,300 225.12 
..{} 1.04 COMPOSITE 409.02 ... 2.58 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3324.46 {} 24.15 
PRECIOUS METALS GOLD f' $ 1.80 to $336.90/oz. SILVER<} 4.8¢ to $3.965/oz. 

CAMPUS Scholar O'Keeffe awarded a fellow 
• NOTRE DAME -Katherine O'Brien O'Keeffe of the University of Notre Dame's English Department has been awarded a fellow by the National Humanities Center in North Carolina. Her work will be on "The Locks of Learning: Source, History, and the Interpretation of a Text." Fellowships from the National Humanities Center are awarded to scholars for a year in residence at the Center, during which they pursue research and writing on individual projects and have the opportunity to exchange ideas in seminars, lectures and conferences. 
Hem~hill~iven medal of merit 

• 
Clubs which requested a check for reimbursement from the Student Body Treasurer's Office are reminded to pick them up sometime after 1 p.m. by Friday. 

• 
Seniors volunteering after graduation are requested to register in their dorms {signs should be posted) or at the Center for Social Concerns by Thursday. The seniors will be invited to the volunteer send-off during commencement weekend. 

• 
Counseline, an audiotape service of the University Counseling Center, offers a series of stress-relieving tapes: 30-"Anxiety and possible ways to cope with it," 3 7­"Relaxation Exercises," and 38-"Coping with Stress" as a way to help you relieve the pressure of exams. Call 239­7793, from 4 p.m. to midnight, and ask for the above tape numbers. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
On April27: e In 1509: Pope Julius II excarmunicated the Italian state of Venice . e In 1865: The steamer "Sultana" exploded on the Mississippi River near Memphis, killing more than 1,400 Union prisoners of war. e In 1937: The ;nation's first Social Se=ity checks were distr:il::uta:L 
e In 1982: The trial of John Hinckley Jr., who shot President Reagan, began in Washington. e Ten Years Ago: In an exchange between the u.s. and the Soviet Union, five political and religious dissidents were released fran Scviet custody in return for the release of two Soviet spies from U.S. custody. 
Monday, April 27, 1992 The Observer page 3 

Aftershocks shake Calif., ignite fires and fear in area 
SCOTIA, Calif. (AP) -A pair of powerful aftershocks Sunday followed a major earthquake along Northern California's re­mote "Lost Coast," touching off fires and fear of more destructive seismic shaking. 
The National Guard trucked in drinking water to four communities hardest hit by the quakes in the rugged, mountainous region of redwood forests and rocky seaside cliffs. 
Throughout the area, people boarded up broken windows and hauled belongings out of homes tossed off their founda­tions. Some slept in emergency shelters, or camped outdoors to avoid more falling debris. 
"Obviously, the fear of aftershocks does exist here," Humboldt County Sheriff David Renner said. 
More than a dozen people were evacuated in Ferndale after gasoline was believed to have leaked into sewer lines, said volunteer fire Capt. Mike Manzi. 
About 50 people were in­jured, none seriously, in the quakes that began Saturday with one that registered 6. 9 on the Richter scale, centered about 250 miles north of San Francisco. Major aftershocks measuring 6.5 and 6.0 followed Sundav. 
They touched off a fire that ravaged a shopping center in Scotia, destroying a lumber yard, a pharmacy, a coffee shop and a grocery store. Fire fighters had to draw water from a nearby pond after the town's water main snapped. 
The first major aftershock struck at 12:41 a.m. and measured 6.0 on the Richter scale. A second, at 4:18 a.m., measured 6.5, and was felt as far away as Fresno, 460 miles south. There were thousands of lesser aftershocks. 
The North Coast Railroad line through Scotia, a town of 1,200 people, was closed after Fossil Bluff collapsed, causing a rock slide. It was expected to remain closed for several days. 
The state Office of Emergency Services estimated $18 million damage, including $10 million to $15 million to Scotia. 
A bridge connecting Scotia with Rio Dell was closed Sunday while officials looked for damage. Another bridge near Rio Dell showed gaps in concrete from the first aftershock, but wasn't closed. 
Like many others, John Hatten's redwood frame house in Rio Dell slipped farther off its foundation with each quake, forcing the family to move belongings out Sunday, leaving the house a tilted, empty shell. 
"It done good ... until the last aftershock," Hatten said. "Then it give up." 
The epicenters of both major aftershocks were near the first quake, centered just onshore near..Rio Dell, a town of about 3,000 people. 


CLUB COLUMN 
APRIL 27, 1992 
ATTENTION ALL CLUBS The CCC and the student body Treasurer's office would like to inform all clubs that there is a safe which all clubs should use for their monies. The Native American Organization lost almost $2250 because they did not use this resource. Don't let this happen to your club! 
ALL NEW CLUB PRESIDENTS: All the club budgeting for 1992-93 is complete. Everyone will be sent a letter indicating next year's allocation. Clubs will also be informed about next year's concession stands. If you have any questions, please call the Club Council at 283-2086 or stop by the office at 206 Lafortune. 
1) Knights of the Immaculata will be sponsoring a May Devotion in honor of the blessed Virgin Mary at the Grotto of this Friday at 6:45 p.m. All are invited to attend. 
2) Notre Dame Council on International Business Development ad contest deadline for the summer issue of Scholastic is May 1. Please submit entries to the council box located outside the ISO lounge on the second floor of Lafortune. The ad must be print-ready and include a logo (any size). Questions, call Amy Mark at 283-4290. 

ARtCOR~ YO~ CAN ~RtA~ 
STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF NEEDED! HElP BEAT THE BIG TEN RECORD 
fOR MOST PEOPlE AT AN AEROBICS ClASS 
FRIDAY, MAY 1 





~ STE~i~PF~ELD ~ 
(IN CASE OF RAIN· LOFTUS CENTER) 

The Observer Students compete in An Tostal's video game contest "The Neo Geo Challenge" at Theodore's. The competition, held at Theodore's Tuesday through Thursday, attracted over 1 ,000 fans. 
Video-games thrive at AnTostal 
By SANDY WIEGAND Assistant News Editor 
"The Neo Geo Challenge," the first large-scale An Tostal event programmed by a corpo­ration, attracted over 1,000 video-game fans last week, ac­cording to Steve Hank, An Tostal corporate programming and corporate sponsorship chair. 
Many simply took advantage of free game-play, but over 400 participated in the three-round video game tournament itself, programmed by SNK Home Entertainment, Inc., Hank said. 
The contest was designed to "find the best video gamer on campus," according to a press release. Dillon Hall sophomore Roberto Nava earned this title. Nava was awarded a free game system, as was Planner Hall junior Paul Pearson, whose name was chosen at random. 

Some proceeds from the sale of game systems at the event will go to an undetermined charity, Hank said, although there were fewer sales than anticipated. "It's not going to be a large amount. We didn't sell as many as we should have." 
Corporate programming is 
SeHda-adt6a~e Ut fJ4't ~ 15 t4.Ute. 
S-t 4 fUduU. SlK.OO. a-t,.._~ (6: 7~~ 
'P.O. &a: 2 
~~.1~46556 
'UArue ,.,_ ~-~ Md 6/ ~ ~ a-t-. ..at~ a Md t6 ,_. "l>~.a~/3. 

HOW TO AVOID 

ICE EVEN BEFORE YOU lAKE 

THEMCAl 
At Ronkin, you'll get the most thorough, most com­prehensive MCAT preparation anywhere. What could be better malpractice insurance than that? 
RONKIN.GETIN: 
lSAT •GMAT•GRE •MCAT • TEST PREPARATION AND APPliCATION ASSISTANCE 
RX: ACT NOW. CLASS SIZE LIMITED. 
South Bend 273-1866 
likely to play an increased role in An Tostal, Hank said, be­cause corporations are "in a role where (they are) not ex­ploiting, but benefiting the stu­dent body." 
The promotion was not ex­ploitive, he said, because stu­dents, faculty and staff were allowed to play the games at no cost. 
The event came about after Hank wrote a letter to SNK with the suggestion. Over $1,500 in prizes were awarded, Hank said. The contest took place in Theodore's Tuesday through Friday. 
Work legally on short-term PfO!tamS: • Britain •Ireland • France • • Gennany • Janaica • New Zealand .Costa Rica 
Cotrdl'sWork.A.broacl flro9'am, the only one of Its klnd...cuts through the red tape! 

Council Travel 
1153 N. Deabcm St, ~ f1oa" 
Chicago,ll60610 

311·951·0585 
Call For A Free 199!11 Student Travel or Work Abroad Catalog! 

page 4 The Observer Monda~April27, 1992 


Democrat Casey fights lonely battle against abortion 
IIARRISBUHG, Pa. (AP) ­Pennsylvania Gov. Bob Casey is not the only Democrat uncom­f?rtab.le with h.is. party's abo~­tHm-nghts posttlon. But he ts 
almost alone in waging a vocal, 
persistent and long-odds fight 
to change it. 
Hepublieans have argued painfully and publicly about abortion for more than a 
decade, and will do so again next month at a platform hear­ing in Salt Lake City. But Democrats have displayed a generally united public front that Casey is trying to shatter. 
The governor has given two major speeches and countless interviews this year blaming his party's White !louse defeats on its "abortion-on-demand" phi­losophy and urging that the stance be abandoned. 
The Supreme Court argu­ments last week on Pennsylva­nia's restrictive Abortion Con­trol Act and the state's presi­dential primary this week have spotlighted Casey and his views. 
And he'll get further attention this summer, when he plans to testify against the long-held DP-mocratic tenet that "thfl fundamental right of reproduc­tivfl choice should be guaran­teed." 
CasP.y said he's supported "every national Democrat who came down the pike, from Ge­orge McGovern to Mike Dukakis," despite their abor­tion-rights stands. "I've swal­lowP.d something that was very hard to swallow. But I'm at the point now where I'm totally frustrated. I'm tired of being rolled over and just ignored." 

Citations 
continued from page 1 
park, Feirrell added. 
"There is no problem with students using thfl park facili­ties, but thP-y must abide by the rules," Feirrell explained. 
~HERST, N.Y. (AP)-Op­eratton Rescue founder Randall Terry worked to regroup Sunday after a week of un~uceessful effo;ts !o. halt abortiOns at women s cltmes. 
Terry spoke during a day devoid of demonstrations, urging protesters to continue their efforts, which have been thwarted by police and abor­tion rights activists. 
He addressed more than 500 people at the Evangel Assembly of God Church in suburban Amherst, on the sixth day of the group's Butialo-area campaign. 
Across the street, about 100 abortion rights activists chanted "Randall Terry, Go Home," and held signs such as "My Body, My Choice" and "Abort Operation Rescue." 
There were about 350 ar­rests during the week, mostly of people trying to block clinic gates or doors. Abortion 
rights  proponents  have  
physically  removed  some  
protesters.  

Terry urged those gathered to put "feet to your faith" by joining the clinic protests. 
Three years ago, 50 anti­abortion House Democrats asked Ronald Brown, then newly installed as Democratic chairman, to alter the party's abortion position. 
Brown rebuffed them at the time but said the party "is large enough to tolerate serious disagreement within our ranks. 
Five Saint Joseph County po­lice officers and Phillip John­son, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, reported to the scene. Feirrell explained that the Saint Joseph County Police called Johnson to the scene to make Security aware of inci­dents involving students away from campus. 
A . . . . 
ntl-abortlon actiVISt Randall attempts regrouping 


ALL ARE WELCOME 
...............---·~!·----....--...
0MELJS 
MNI5TRY 
"Thirty years of prayer without action has gotten 30 million dead babies," he said, adding they should not fear being arrested. 
"Some of the very richest experiences of my whole life spiritually have been in the slammer," he said. 
Operation Rescue leaders say the Buffalo protests will probably end Friday. 
On the steps outside the church, Terry and several anti-abortion ministers spoke for a few minutes to about 100 abortion opponents who could not get inside. Another 200 people watched his address on closed-circuit television in the church's basement. 
The Buffalo protests are be­ing patterned after similar six-week-long demonstrations in Wichita, Kan., that resulted in 2,600 arrests. 
Abortion rights activists have organized to prevent protesters from denying women access to clinics. They have outnumbered Operation Rescue members by up to 3­to-1. 
We have no litmus tests." 

He's standing equally firm now. While Casey claims to speak for "millions of Democrats," Brown counters that anti-abortion Democrats are a distinct minority in the House and the party. 
"I don't see this groundswell of shock and concern that Gov-




Jury 
continued from page 1 

ernor Casey seems to perceive," Brown said in an interview. "Is there another Democratic gov­ernor who takes that position? I don't think so. Even (North Dakota) Governor Sinner, who's a Catholic with 10 children, is pro-choice," he added. 
At the same time, Brown stressed that "we shouldn't be pushing people out or making them feel unwelcome in the party because they don't share the party's view on this one subject." 
But Casey says that's exactly how he feels -that the na­tional party essentially urges anti-abortion Democrats to run for mayor, congressman, sena­tor or even governor, "but for God's sake, don't ever talk about this. Just go over in the corner and keep quiet. And don't ever, don't ever ask to run for president because ... unless you're for abortion on demand you don't qualify." ' 
The two Democratic presi­dential candidates still in the race, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton and former California Gov. Jerry Brown, support legalized abortion but wouldn't meet ev­ery test of an ardent activist. 
Clinton favors parental noti­fication laws and has opposed state funding of abortions for poor women in Arkansas. Brown is adamant about pro­tecting abortion rights ­"there's nothing more private than a woman's body" -but he personally opposes abortion. 
There are a few highly placed anti-abortion Democrats, most notably House Majority Whip David Bonior of Michigan. But 
heedless disregard for the safety or well-being of others, an almost intentional act," he said. 
they don't speak out much in national forums, and Casey could be a lone voice at the convention platform hearings in July. 
Few in either party buy Casey's argument that abortion, the ultimate values issue is alienating voters and costing Democrats the White House. In fact GOP abortion-rights advo­cates argue just the opposite ­that their party could lose the White House over its unyielding demand to outlaw abortions. 
Such Republicans are plead­ing for a platform that recog­nizes President Bush's opposi-. tion to abortion "but makes it clear that ... the GOP is open to diverse views on the subject," as Ann Stone, chairman of Re­publicans for Choice, put it in a New York Times column last week. 
While Hepublicans struggle to expand what Stone calls "a small, closed teepee," national Democrats say their party al­ready is a "big tent" with room for all. 
AI From, executive director of the Democratic Leadership Council, acknowledged that Democrats "have to be careful to draw the line between pro­choice and pro-abortion" to comfortably accommodate people like Casey. 
But he added: "I don't see how a national party can be anything but pro-ehoice, be­cause basically that's the only way you can honor people whose values are either pro­choice or what we call pro-life. You don't havfl to choose an abortion." 
Please Recycle 


THISSUrlflER! 
YOU'LL NEVER BE MORE THAN AN INCH FROM ARONKIN CENTER. 

Great news for over-achievers: Rankin has the most comprehensive, mosllh~rough test prep programs anyvvhere. Since we have over 150 locations nationwide, we're practically everywhere. To enroll in o course at home this summer, get real close too telephone and give us o coli ol 1·800·2·TEST-HI. 
RONKIN.GETIN: 
LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT •TEST PREPARATION AND APPLICATION ASSISTANCE 
In South Bend, call 273-1866 
C1992 The Ronkoo EducoiK>lOI Group 

Monday, April 27, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Professors remember Clements 
By BECKY BARNES News Writer 
Professors who knew Susan Clements as a student at Notre Dame remember her as kind, charming and intelligent. 
According to Stephen Fallon, associate professor of English and the Program of Liberal Studies, she was "one of the most remarkable students I've had at Notre Dame." 
David Schindler, associate professor of the Program of Liberal Studies, Clement's major, said she was "very kind, very gentle, very vibrant and full of life." 
Clements, a 1990 graduate of Notre Dame, was shot and killed last Thursday in her dormitory at Indiana University where she was an English graduate student. 
Both professors remembered her as an outstanding student. 
Fallon said, "She was ... a kind of student that some of us [professors] have in mind when we decided to go into teaching." 
She was "amazingly gifted," said Schindler. "It would be a consensus in our program that she was one of the very best students we've had," he added. 
Schindler knew Clements for two years as a student assistant and a translator for 
Trouble packing your stuff? WELL ... 


STUFF THIS 
In Whatever you can and 
Boxes Plus 


··~* 

ack it and shi 
Nothing is too big or too small 
• Books • Bikes • Stereos • 
• Ns 

Boxes Pitts 
5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza 
(between Waccamaw and Sam's Club) 

Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
Call these numbers for any large item pick-up and get your Free 
Discount Coupon!!! 
283-3047 283-1022 277-5555 

"Communio," the journal of Catholic philosophy and theology he edits. Because she lived in South Bend, Clements continued to translate articles for the French issue of the journal after her graduation from Notre Dame during the summer and breaks, said Schindler. 
He had sent her material to be translated only 10 days ago, he added. 
Clements was killed by Andreas Drexler, a German national whom she had dated for approximately two years, although their relationship had ended last December. 
Schindler said that he had been introduced to Drexler during Clements' senior year when he visited her on campus, but he has "no recollection of anything particularly striking" about him. "He seemed nice enough," said Schindler. 
He expressed shock at the event and Clements' relationship with Drexler. "It's so ironic that she would be involved with someone of that temperament. She's so gentle and kind." 

Fallon said that Clements was "universally liked." "We're all going to miss her The thunder rolls very much," he said. 
Kenyon Meyer covers a Garth Brooks favorite at the Zahm
A mass for Clements will be 

Invitational Talent Show (ZITS) Saturday at Washington Hall.
held today at 11 a.m. in St. 

Unfortunately, this was the finale of his four-year tour; he will be
Patrick's Church, South Bend. 

graduating in two weeks. 


IU suffers loss of two students 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Susan Marie Clements was well on her way toward the doctor­ate degree she dreamed of when her scholastic career came to a tragic end. 
The 23-year-old Indiana Uni­versity graduate student, who had complained of harassing phone calls, was shot to death by her former boyfriend. 
Andreas Drexler, a 29-year­old German national, also criti-

DOMINO'S PIZZA® 


STUDY TIPS 
lo>il< • «Dlor wllo aced !loc 
COline am !or pWa. (l\is 
it b...., .. "l'lnl Gralio 
P1160a" or PUu !or tile ~.ILL 
oC PassUoa.l 
P<ppuoooj olialO ..ILL sood
,..._.l!irs. 
Ecoa.olllio H U.Jttr i( you'n 
1101 • co~pon. 
HoW'II'

Call Us! Notte Dame 271-0300 1835 SaUih 11m1 ~ 4:30pm-1 am Sun. · Thun­
4:30pm-2 am Fri. A Sat­

cally wounded a man who tried to help Clements before killing himself, police said Friday. 
Clements was finishing her second year of a challenging doctorate program in English literature with a straight-A av­erage. 
She had quietly earned the respect of classmates and professors. She was to have received an award Friday night for an essay she wrote for a class in the women's studies program. 
"She was very independent, and a very serious student," Edward Clements said of Ms. Clements, his sister. 
One of seven children of Robert Clements, a high school biology teacher and adjunct professor at IU-South Bend, Susan Clements always excelled academically. Her only competi­tion at South Bend Clay High School was her twin sister, Nancy. 
Nancy was valedictorian and Susan was salutatorian their senior year. 
A strong writer, she went on to major in English at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, where she was Phi Beta Kappa and graduated summa cum laude in 1990 with a Program of Liberal Studies degree. · 
The incident created a somber atmosphere across the IU campus as students pre­pared for the Little 500 bicycle race. Officials said the men's race will go on as scheduled to­day. 
The injured man, Steven Molen, 22, of Salt Lake City re­mained hospitalized in very critical condition Friday. He was shot in the left groin and underwent three hours of surgery at Bloomington Hospi­tal, spokeswoman Michelle Flick said. 

~""vus Trouble-!ree
C 

connections
0~ 

so you won't have a
U.P.S. 



SERVICE DAILY 

rrJic Country 
J-{arvester 
%onday tfiro 'Friday 12 to 5 Saturday 11 to 2 'E;tfended Jiours 'During 'Finafs Lower Leve[ of La'Fortune 
SO¢ off each box with this ad 
$100.00 tree insurance! 



page 6 The Observer Monday, April27, 1992 

The Observer/ Adriana Rodriguez 

Easier than the NIT 
Zahm Hall freshman and varsity basketball player Malik Russel's free throw percentage increased drastically this weekend at An Tostal's Double Slam Shot at Theodore's in LaFortune on Friday. 
PYONGYANG, North Korea (AP) -North Korea is prepared to establish diplomatic relations with the United States, but remains committed to communism. a senior official said Sunday. 
Song Rak Un. director of U.S. affairs for the Foreign Ministry, also claimed North Korea received a message from Presi­supporting improved relations," Song said. 
Song refused to elaborate on the content of the messages and did not say whether Bush attached stipulations to his message. 
The Bush administration has said North Korea must allow full inspections of its nuclear program, which the White Pyongyang to renounce terror­ism and its intention to bring cemmunism to rival South Ko­rea. 
Song said his country's deci­sion earlier this month to allow international inspection of some of its disputed nuclear fa­cilities means the issue is "a settled matter." 
"Normalization of diplomatic 

Mexican attorney blames officials for explosion 
GUADALAJARA, Mexico (AP) -Authorities blamed city lead­ers and the powerful Pemex state oil monopoly on Sunday for sewer blasts that killed at least 191 people last week. Charges could include negligent homicide. 
The nation's attorney general said officials were negligent for not evacuating the area after residents reported strong gaso­line fumes coming from sewers. He also said they should have acted quickly to repair the problem. 
Pemex has denied a broken gasoline pipeline caused Wednesday's explosions. claiming the pipes were rup­tured by the blasts. The com­pany, however, promised $32.8 million to help with reconstruc­tion efforts to try to "mitigate the disgrace." It also pledged to increase security at its facilities, according to a statement issued late Sunday. 
The attorney general, Ignacio Morales Lechuga, said nine public and Pemex officials and two private citizens he did not identify faced various charges related to the deaths, injuries to 1,470 people and property damage. No formal charges were filed on Sunday. 
Late Sunday, crews dug the body of a 10-year-old boy from the rubble. State officials have said half of those killed in the disaster were children, many who were home for the Easter holiday. 
Mexicans. who repeatedly have suffered environmental and natural disasters in recent years, have harshly criticized 
officials for the disaster and blamed both Pemex and lax government precautions. 
"It's the fault of Pemex," screamed the father after his son's body was diseovered. 
In Guadalajara's eastern He­forma district, wrecked by the blasts, a half-dozen angry resi­dents and workers in a small store hissed as they watched the attorney general's news conference on television. 
Morales Lechuga said the leaked gasoline mixed with other volatile chemicals in the sewers, especially the strong industrial chemical hexane, to produce the disaster. He said three cooking-oil companies that use hexane in the manu­faeturing process would be in­vestigated. 
The attorney general said the blasts damaged 1,422 homes, 450 businesses and 600 vehicles and gouged trenches in five miles of streets. 
Morales Lechuga said un­leaded gasoline flowed into the sewer system after a leaky wa­ter main corroded a hole in an adjacent underground Pemex pipeline carrying the fuel from a refinery 130 miles away. He displayed pictures of the faulty pipes. 
Prior to the explosions. resi­dents had complained of a strong smell of gasoline, which they said they reported to city officials. The city dispatched officials to investigate. Crews removed covers from some manholes to ventilate the sewer system, but assured residents there was no danger. 

dent Bush supporting normal­House suspects is aimed at ization of ties. But a U.S. official making a nuclear bomb. in Washington said any 
Grand Opening April 3rd 

normalization was still "a long In Washington. a Bush ad­way down the road." ministration official said Gra­
Rainbow Video 

ham "didn't carry any written 
WE SPECIAUZE IN:

In an interview with The As­messages or anything like that, 
is now accepting application for the 
sociated Press. Song said Bush but he told the North Koreans 
Korean 

sent the message to North Ko­exactly the same thing we've 
following position: 
Japanese

rean President Kim II Sung been saying in public" about earlier this month through allowing international nuclear 
Chinese 

American evangelist Billy Gra­inspections. ham. The U.S. official, who spoke 
Design Editors
Video Tapes 

"Certainly it was a positive on condition of anonymity, pre­
Free Membership

message from George Bush. dicted no immediate break­
State Road 23 U Ironwood

The main content was that he throughs in Washington's rela­was also hoping that diplomatic tions in North Korea, one of the 
Next to 7fl Gas Station relations would be normalized. world's last hard-line com­
Mon-Sat 10 am to 10 pm 

Paid Position 
The great leader (Kim II Sung) munist states. 
Sun 12 noon to fl pm also sent his message back Washington has also urged 
{ZI9) 273-9545 

To apply, please contact Jeanne Blasi at 239-7471. 

TRANSFER STUDENTS 
TRANSFER STUDENTS 
TRANSFER STUDENTS 
Sign up for Transfer Orientation Staff TONIGHT at 7:00pm in the Foster room in LaFortune. 
**APRIL 27th** 

Move up to 
•MAPLE LANE APARTMENTS" 
• 
2 Bedroom Luxury Apartments {4 Apartments per Building) 

• 
Locked Entry with Intercom System 

• 
Full size Washer and Dryer for each Apartment 

• 
Pool and Clubhouse facilities 

• 
6 minutes from Campus 

• 
Flexible lease terms 

• 
Bring in this Ad for $50 off 1st months rent For further infonnation call 277-3731 Located •t Clevel•nd and Bendix 


NO GERMAN SUMMER LANGUAGE INSTITUTE 
.D.lJ!E M: AUGUST SaUD 
The Metre o.-o.r-8u-r~o11ut1111t• ellen aalat-llh-a au-rprocraas ol coura• aacl cultaral ~t. Ear. up to 9 ...........-.diU at •122 ....cncllt hour(!) la •-U. UYeJ7 claa... tauatat with l......tlea. 11et11 .,...._.,. (WilDa-II "'-lare ............. la ollerl•l -ceatrat..S, yet penoaalbecl ladracUea. 
LEARN DIE LANGUAGE OF THE 901ea 
o.r-p......~~.. VW.•II......,w YWcet'C•DIII.,.r•!YWc• .Dba 
Da~ T........l,_...,..,......a ......... ,...,._~ 
,................

....__.A....._ ;'
,_..,.,_....._.._ 
/

u ...flr CJa•-A,_• ..,..,.. I 
...........,.._C*I.,..-tcuora 
~...._.{J .IZIIIIIb.a -.ciW CE sos ......bot: 0eraaa lo.Ja-:14 • .J•IJ' 7 (J -)la-d-bo-•-... c.r-aa lor atlldnoh wtdl-er
........_........... 
CEsos ......bot: Oeraaa Do .J•IJ' • • .JaiJ' :u (J ......) c..tl•••-o1 CE sos 
CEso:s ......... 0eraaa Mo.J•IJ' D · A....ot 4 (J -.:a) C..tta...-ol CE soz FalftDa ND ...._ .....--.. 
CEU!II lo-atec.r-aalo .J•-:14 • .Ja!J' Zl (J -•)A _...., r ... atlldnota -h-loackcroaiHII bo c.r..., 
era-... -.......... ­
...--.-tt.c.-•..-Jd...
1•-atec.r-aa Do .J•IJ' ••• A....ot I (J -th) C..da••-ol CE S:ll!l 
AppUcaUon fo.aul mu: tiobtained u wrltlne liU 
Summer School Director ~12 Main Building 
UD1verslt7 of Notre Dame 

-
Monday, April 27, 1992 The Observer page 7 
'Cosby' desensitizes 
U.S. racial inequalities 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (AP) ­"The Cosby Show" desensitizes whites to the nation's racial inequalities because it features an affluent black family, ac­cording to a study funded by Cosby himself. 
The findings renewed debate over whether the 8-year-old show, which will broadcast its final episode Thursday, has set back race relations. 
"If black people fail, then white people can look at the successful black people on 'The Cosby Show' and say they only have themselves to blame," said Sut Jhally, a communications professor at the University of Massachusetts. 
Jhally and colleague Justin Lewis have written a 200-page study on the social effects of the NBC show, which has been seen by more viewers than any sitcom in television history. The study is to be published in a month. 
The researchers said Friday they picked the show, which be­gan in 1984, because it was the first all-black program to avoid racial stereotyping. Cosby plays a wealthy doctor with a lawyer for a wife. 
When they began, the two 
professors at the Amherst campus wrote to Cosby, who holds a doctorate in education from the University of Mas­sachusetts. He responded with a $16,500 grant. 
"We thought it was a bit of a long shot really, but we were pleasantly surprised when he sent us a check," Lewis said. 
The professors interviewed about 200 people of varying economic and racial status in the Springfield area. They watched the show in homes and answered questions about their impressions. 
Lewis said the study seemed to confirm the beliefs of white viewers that blacks enjoy the same opportunities as they do. The professors said nearly all the whites they interviewed be­lieved affirmative action is no longer needed. 
The professors called the at­titude that gives lip service to equality "enlightened racism." 
"Most white people accepted that America has had a kind of racist past, but the present of the Huxtables and their spinn­offs really seems to send a message to white people that black people can make it if they try," Lewis said. 
Her~z 
PEMSKE 
Truck Rent'al 
For Do-lt-Yourself Moves Local. one way 

Low Rates • Free Unlimited Mileage on One Way Rentals 
• 
A" Condotoomng and Automatoc Transmossoon • New. Clean. Top-Maonlaoned Models 

• 
Buolt-ln Loadong Ramos • 24-Hour Emergency Road Servoce. 7 Days a Week 

• 
Full Lone ol Movong Accessoroes lncludong· Tow Oolloes. Hand Trucks. Pads and Carlons • Free Movong Guode • Protecloon Plans • Most Ma,or Crerll! Gareis Ar.coplcd 


South Bend 
277-0144 
Mishawaka 
234-9665 
"Ask for your 10% student discount" 
For One Way Reservatoons. Call 1-800-222-0277 
Penske Truck leasmg Co 1991 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 
Where's the hose? 

Mule Dan Marvin gives thumbs up to driver Andrew MacKenzie after dragging the Zahm Hall chariot through the mud pits on Saturday. 
!Recycle! 
London  $515*  
Frankfurt  $655*  
Rome  $715*  
Tel Aviv  $765*  
Copenhagen  $655*  

•Fa-es a-e roundtrip for de~es up to Jme 15onsched.Jied ca-riers.lntemctional Teacher 
IDs, Hostel ca-ds, overseas la-lguase courses 
for teachers. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dea'bom St, !il"ld floor Olicago,1160610 
311·951-0585 
Call For A Free 199i Student Travel catalog! 


STA~TI~f3 TUI:S[)A"Y• AVI21L ~S Tt1~()Uf?l1 TliU~~()A""• MA"" 7 
Newsweek finds slavery around world 
NEW YORK (AP) -As many as 100 million people may be living in slavery around the world, despite nations' claims that human bondage no longer exists, according to Newsweek magazine. 
Four Newsweek corre­spondents spent the last year interviewing enslaved men, women and children in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America, the magazine reported in its May 4 issue. 
Newsweek described how civil war caused a resumption of slavery in the Sudan and how employment contracts and fake marriages mask slavery in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia for workers from India, the Philippines, Pakistan, Bangladesh and West Africa. 
It said as many as 10,000 women and children from China's Sichuan Province are abducted and sold each year to be used in the northern provinces of Thailand as prostitutes. 
It said Mozambican women are sold as brides in South Africa and girls traded for cows are put to work in the red light districts of Calcutta and Bom­bay in India. 
The abuses occur even though every United Nations member has signed the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
The magazine said one of the most common forms of slavery occurs when whole families are forced to work, sometimes for generations, trying to pay off loans at wages that do not cover their living expenses. 
Newsweek said some abuses turned up after the Gulf War when embassies became crowded with escapees from 
Kuwait's  force  of  menial  
workers.  
Laxmi  Swami,  an  Indian  

housemaid, said two sisters of the Emir of Kuwait kept her half-starved and enslaved for four years, flogging her daily with electrical cable. The sisters pleaded guilty to assault and paid civil damages of $540,000, Newsweek said. 
Swami went to the police after escaping from her captors in London, Newsweek said. 
"Hundreds of times they called me 'slave,' hundreds of times," she said. 

&$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$1 
f: There's m1)~ AP 1emporary work thanI just money... lM·It'a aot a bad place to  ~ I= 
~~~~  
4Jt* The Choice for Stafllng ii looking for -:% bright, professional, enthu~iutic, college:=  ~ ~* fl  
StUdenlS Olld gradR who iUll iUWI'Cl$ted ln  ~  
..,  working at banks, aCCCII.II'lling fums, law  •  
~  firms and CQD5Uiting companicN.  :  
~  flit  
:; Temporary wo1k provides un~llcnl* opportunity to Cllperieuce the wideJ variety or corporate environme.ntiJD* Cbicago. Receive skill devdtJIHWI for * IUltomated ofrtceK, bridp-­~ between scbool and f"nt timo (;~Wet  :*I I  
:  placement, and... mak:o money.  ~  
1: fruiTI marketing projects to tcttin1.1 up : spreadsboct.H, to word proc:caalng. we : have the ussignmcnlll. CaU 372·4500 for  I1 1:  

..,. more infomualion about our benefit tit 
~ package (including paid luru:h aud I 
~ holidays). (4
(411 F~OO lWLL U:GIN £L()SIN~ 4T 1():00 J>.M. 
: I 
... THE '-4 
~ H)ll)4~. M4.~ S) 
; CHOICE i 
t~t For Stllrflng * = =::=INC=== : 
~ ~ ~ Clllcqc:VW.,hioo.tfC...D.C. * 
M 11+ 
~$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$: 

Business 
page 8 Monda~ April27, 1992 
Taylor discusses transition of European economies 

By BEVIN KOVALIK Business Writer 
The transitions of post-so­eialist European economic sys­tems toward the free market will take a long time and will have to be mediated by the state, according to Lance Tay­lor, an economist from M.I.T. 
Taylor discussed "The Post­Socialist Transition from an Economics Point of View" Fri­day at a workshop on the "The State, Markets and Develop­ment." 
The supply and demand inelasticities and the mone­tary/financial disequilibrium make the macroeconomic ad­justment in these countries dif­ficult, Taylor said. He said a go-slow strategy is sensible in dealing with these two major economic problems confronting these post-socialist countries. 
Another problem, he added, is that the aggregate demand can fall short of the potential supply for a long time. 
Taylor explained three meth­ods to help erase excess aggre­gate demand: reductions in de­mand injections or autonomous components of spending, infla­tion-induced reductions in spending, and the use of admin­istrative means to limit the de­mand to the available supply. 
These countries also face stabalization problems, Taylor said. A wage increase in the countries will cause a recession 

Nicholas Brady along with finance officials from the world's richest countries met at the Blair House last Saturday to continue discussions over Soviet aid. 

Now Accepting AppUcations for: DJ's for I992-93 School Year 
Pick up appUcations at lnio. desk in LaFortune DeadUne: MAY 1, s:oo PM Questions Call James @ 239-7521 

.. GO TO OFHCER 
B'! TRAINING 
SCHOOL. 
• ut your college ~ degree to work in the Air Force Officer Training School. 
Then, after graduating from Officer Training School, become a commissioned Air Force officer with great starting pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation with pay per year and management opportunities. Learn if you qualify for higher education in the Air Force. Call 
CALL (219) 234-6713 FOR MORE 
INFORMATION. IMMEDIATE OPENINGS AVAILABLE. CALL TODAY! 
or depression in the future, he said. 
Taylor said that economies with inflation rates of two per­cent per month can remain stable for a long time, but once these rates increase, so does the instability. 
Some European countries like Poland, Rumania, and Bulgaria have inflation rates above two percent and this creates prob­lems, he said. 
"We are talking about finan­cially unsophisticated coun­tries," Taylor said. Once these economies are over the finan­cial fragility, they must restruc­ture and create an appropriate financial system, he explained. 
Taylor said that the public 

sector is a strong net saver and plays a strong role in bringing in new technologies and re­sources. "The public sector is going to have to play a big role in capital formation in all these developing countries," Taylor said. 
These post-socialist countries also have an extreme depen­dence on imports of capital goods, he said. When the nega­tive effect of a nation's size on its trade shares is taken into account, the proportions of capital goods imports are large, Taylor added. 
"In the future, import substi­tution is something that Russia must seriously think about," Taylor said. 
"The main message of this 
discussion is that economic transition, if it does occur, will be a lurching, unpredictable process," Taylor said. 
As for other countries helping these post-socialist economies Taylor said, "Laissez-faire is nonsense. Think of the inte­grated market system. The in­visible hand will not take care of it." 
He added that free markets would never have come into being by simply allowing things to take their course. 
"Until newly formed govern­ments learn to play their essential role in creating and steering markets and facilitat­ing productive efficiency," Tay­lor said, "economic stagnation will be inevitable." 

World finance officials agree on outlines of Russian aid package 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Top finance officials from the world's seven richest industrial countries voiced general agreement Sunday on the out­lines of a $24 billion assistance package for Russia, paving the way for aid that ultimately could rival the Marshall Plan in its scope. 
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady and Federal Heserve Chairman Alan Greenspan met for dinner Saturday night at the Blair House and continued discussions Sunday at the Treasury Department with fi­nance officials from .Japan, Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada. 
The talks centered on assis­tance to the 15 republics of the former Soviet Union with other topics including ways to better coordinate policies to prevent a global economic slowdown from worsening. 

Russian Deputy Prime Minis­ter Yegor Gaidar, the chief ar­chitect of his country's eco­nomic reforms, met with the fi­nance officials Sunday after­noon and faced probing ques­tions on whether Hussia re­mained committed to reforms in the face of stiff political op­position. 
The officials from the world's seven wealthiest countries let it be known that Western aid would be contingent on Russia not faltering in its reform effort. 
"Our message must be help 
is NOW accepting applications for the FALL BREAK 1992 
for self-help," said German Fi­nance Minister Theo Waigel. "We want to signal to them that we want to help, but the major responsibility must be theirs." 

While there were plenty of questions to Gaidar, officials who had seen a draft final communique said that it en­dorsed the broad outlines of a Western aid program. Brady and other financn officials in separate comments expressed support for the general concept of Western aid. 
Hussia and the other 14 re­publics were expected to win approval on Monday for full membership in the Interna­tional Monetary Fund and its sister lending organization, the World Bank .. 

IN ONE WEEK ACCOMPLISH THE FOLLOWING: 
• Gain valuable work experience 
• 
Network with alumni in your discipline 

• 
Explore the work environment first-hand 


Coordinated by the STUDENT ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARG), the program matches alumni sponsors with interested Notre Dame students whose education and career goals parallel those of the sponsor. STUDENTS FROM ALL DISCIPLINES 1\lAY APPLY! 
Applications available at 

Career and Placement Services and Alumni Association Office (201 Main Bldg.) Applications due in Alumni Office by May 8. Questions? Contact Mauricio Valdes at #1692 or Frances Shavers at 239-6000. 
"""""'"of N~< Do...]
Alumni Association 


-·---­

Viewpoint 
Monday, April 27, 1992 page 9 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
America is best fit for the role of world police 
For many years critics of America, most recently Saudi Arabia, have complained that the U.S. "thinks it's the world's policeman. • These critics ignore the unfortunate facts that the world needs a policeman and that at present America is the best choice for that role. The need for a world police­man is painfully obvious. Law­lessness is as rampant among nations today as it ever has been. Iraq, Haiti, and Liberia are only the most egregious current examples of the need for a good strong cop. Many parts of the world are like an old Western town with no sher­iff and many gun toting bullies. Since the United Nations, the Organization of American States, and other similar bodies were created in the first half of this century, they have stopped only two bullies; North Korea in 1950 and Iraq in 1991. There are at least two rea­sons for this limited success. First, there are many compet­ing sources of international law; treaties, resolutions of the U.N. Security Council, and in­ternational custom are just  some of the widely recognized sets of rules. The Libyans claimed that the Gulf was a bay or harbor of Libya and, therefore, was part of Libya's territorial waters under several U.N. conventions. The U.S. disagreed with Libya's claim to the Gulf and argued that the area the Navy was in was in­ternational waters and was governed by the customary law of the high seas, which the Navy was obeying when at­tacked. Second, the official adminis­trators of international law are generally powerless to enforce it. Thus, nations, i'artkul11rlv powerful nations, can generally ignore international law when it suits their purposes. China, for instance, clearly ignored in­ternational law when it invaded and annexed Tibet in 1960. Likewise, the Soviet Union dis­regarded numerous rules of law in its invasions of Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Afghanistan. Even the U.S., generally the most law abiding of the Great Powers, ignored a decision by the Court of Inter- Rick Acker In My Opinion national Justice commanding America to stop funding the contras in Nicaragua and to pav Nicaragua compensation. Nonetheless, the lJnited States is clearly the best choice to fill the necessary role of world policeman. America is the only power that is able and willing to project sufficient force around the world. Russia and China are unable to enforce the law much beyond their own borders (or even within them in Russia's ce.se). Moreover, the evidence shows that the U.S. has the best record of any internationally active state, particularly over the past decade. First, all three U.S. invasions of the past ten years (Grenada, Panama, and Kuwait) have been wildly popu­lar with the people invaded (over 90 percent supported each action). Second, in all three cases the U.S. has withdrawn its forces as soon as legitimate govern­ments were in power. Third, the U.S. has generally  obeyed the letter and spirit or international law every time it has used force. In most cases he U.S. has acted only with the onsent of regional and inter­tational bodies such as the Jnited Nations and the Organi­zation of American States. The main problem is that America is not the ideal cop. The U.S., for instance, often doesn t enforce the law where it could and should, such as in Haiti today or Liberia a year and a half ago. Likewise, the U.S. occasionally seriously breaches international laws partially because these laws ar~ often bad and/or vague. Finally, the U.S. will probably not al­~~ys be as rc:_latively strong as It ~ today: C1pna, Russia, and a umfied Europe could all be se­rious challengks in ten years. The best solution would be to improve the U.N. by making it& main decision making body, the Security Council, more flexible, responsible, and powerful. The Council could be made more flexible by removing the veto power possessed by all five permanent members -America, Britain, France, Russia, and  China). The Council could be maae more responsible by limiting membership to liberal democ­racies -countries built on re­spect for law and individual freedom are likely to make bet­ter world citizens). Also, this would encourage other coun­tries to become liberal democ­racies and would give those that are an incentive to stay that way. Finally, the Council could be mad.e more powerful by giving it the money and au­thority to raise and maintain a first class army of at least 200,000, with the power to de­mand more troops from Council members for short periods in ~mergencies. Until the situation changes, the world will need a cop and the U.S. is the best, though im­perfect, choice for the job. America s critics should accept these facts and either change the situation or keep quiet. Rick Acker is a law student at Notre Dame.  
Ebony Side of Dome clarifies sponsorship  
Dear Editor:  Even though  some  of our  would like to dispel the false  
We, the members of Ebony  members either played or sub­ assumptions concerning  or  
Side of the Dome, would like to  stituted for Adworks in the past,  sponsorship.  Also, we thank  
thank writer Mark McGrath (of  this year the Brothers decided  the  Black Alumni  of Notre  
The Observer) for naming us as  to  give  back  to  those  who  Dame for both their financial  
one of the top teams in the  "truly" support us.  Therefore,  and spiritual support of out  
Bookstore Tournament this  we chose to be sponsored by  team  and  wish  that  The  
year.  However, we feel that an  the  Black Alumni  of Notre  Observer and others never as­ 
incorrect inference was made.  Dame (BAND).  Through this  sociate us with Adworks again.  
After naming Ebony Side of the  agreement, we are named after  
Dome as one of the top teams,  BAND's newsletter (thus Ebony  Martin Somerville  
Mr. McGrath placed (Adworks)  Side of the Dome). and  we  Pangborn Hall  
after our name.  This infers that  proudly wear this name on our  April 21, 1992  
Adworks is out sponsor.  This is  shirts purchased by BAND.  
far from the truth.  Therefore, we, the Brothers,  
DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF T HE DAY  


---~----~--------­
Viewpoint
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reader objects to distorted image of masculinity 

that ALL men only do bad 
things. I do not disagree with tial for salvation. He claims prefer to see the glass half full. the observation that men have that the genetic coding of the Regardless of the dominant committed acts of violence universe is not "pertinent" to position men have had in social against the earth and other men. status across generations and 
humans. The internal organs of both cultures, passing on cultural 
But I strongly disagree with sexes are connected to the values has been the result of the conelusions Mr. Zavestoski earth through nerve endings in the actions and intentions of draws from it. To be in favor of their feet (shoes are not worn both men and women. I do not gender equality and ecological by men only). The pineal gland believe that women could be so 
communion does not neces­in both sexes responds to the stupid or powerless that men sitate a position belittling the presence and absence of natu­alone could have shaped all cul­value of masculinity or scape­ral light, sleep cycles are based ture and determined the fate of goating men for all the prob­on celestial motions, many be­all persons for all ages. It lems that women in particular haviors are attributed to a full would seem, therefore, that it is or the world in general now moon, and so on. Menstruation not only men who bear respon­face. is the single cosmo-biological sibility of humanity and the 
Several points Mr. Zavestoski difference between the sexes, earth. 
presents without support are but the only example Mr. If you take Mr. Zavestoski's debatable. He claims that Zavestoski cites. world view, you might have a male-dominated religions deny A great deal more evidence hard time accounting for those the necessity for sustaining the would need to be advanced to men who have managed to do a biosphere. Jainism and Baha'i, support his claim that all men few good things here and there. founded by Mahavira and completely ignore these connec­Men of compassion and vision Baha'ullah (both men) preach tions while women stay in com­are countless, but a few of my harmony with nature as essen-plete harmony with them. I favorites are Ghandi, Abdul 
Armbands and petition to protest Bush 
Dear Editor: The choice of a commence­Some of us may vote for 
We are writing to address the ment speaker makes a strong George Bush, while others may discontent of the Notre Dame statement to the nation. As a not. However, all of us believe community concerning the se­result we feel that it is neces­that the University's invitation lection of George Bush as the sary to voice our opposition. In is in reality a de facto en­Sesquicentennial voicing our opposition we seek dorsement. Commencement speaker. to avoid any disruption of 
graduation during this very im­If. for whatever reason, you 
After much debate, we, as a portant lSOth anniversary of agree that the Administration's group of concerned seniors, Notre Dame. selection is inappropriate, have dedded to take action. We please sign our petition and object to the Administrations What we propose is to make a wear a white armband on your 
selection for the following rea­sons: 
I) This is our commencement and not a political forum; as such inviting any political can­didate is inappropriate. 
2) We feel that the Adminis­tration should have consulted the Notre Dame students and faculty in making this decision. 
public statement that is intel­ligent and respectful. Our plan is two-fold and consists of a petition which will be circulated around campus by members of our group and can also be signed at the esc. and white arm bands to be worn at com­mencement, which will be distributed at Earth Day and prior to graduation. 
right arm at graduation. 

Shannon Ledesma Marcie Poorman Jennifer Evans Christine Kempf Kristi Niichel Catherine Sheehy Moire McGee Class of '92 April15, 1992 

Gaffhar Khan (Ghandi's con­temporary among the people of India's Northern Territories), Dom Helder Camara of Brazil, Isaac Bashevis Singer the sto­ryteller, Andre Trocme of the French Nonviolent Resistance movement, Lanza del Vasto of the Ark Communities, and Martin Luther King, Jr. 
These are men who, contrary to Mr. Zavestoski's assertion, have been successful in invent­ing earth/human relationships that give life. The fact is that few people-men or women­have reached the stage of de­velopment at which selfless­ness, joy, courage, and wisdom combine into a life of holiness and wholeness. But this does not mean that men as an entire gender are incapable of such development. 
As I said, I agree that men, Women, too, will bring distinct qualities to the process. And men and women will work to­gether with qualities common to the socialization of both genders. 
It is not a time to write off half of the human race as cos­mologically ore genetically indisposed to growth. It is not a time to split humanity into two irreconcilable pieces. It is not a time for men to wallow in despair and self-pity. 
It is a time for people to use every gift they have to make a difference. It is a time for con­fidence in making difficult choices. It is a time to be heal­ers, community builders, and peacemakers. It is a time for men to do good things. 
Mark Gunty 
Off-campus 
April 16, 1992 

Students are encouraged to participate in Colloquy 
Dear Editor: 

Last September, Fr. Edward Malloy announced the forma­tion of the Colloquy 2000, a network of committees intended to review the present state of our University and make recommendations that will carry Notre Dame into the next 150 years. 
Similar reports have been compiled in the past-COUP (1973) and PACE (1982)~but the Colloquy 2000 is unique in that for the first time, there has been significant student in­volvement in helping to deter­mine the direction of the University. 
This invitation to participate in formulative discussion leaves students with a chance and a responsibility to make observations and recom­mendations in areas that are of particular concern to students. 
The Colloquy 2000 subcom­mittees are currently conduct­ing interviews with students from each residence hall and ofT campus. A random sampling of students have received invitations to input at these meetings as representatives of the student body; I strongly en­courage those students to take advantage of this unprece­dented opportunity. 
As interviews with students will continue though the sum­mer, I also encourage any in­terested students to see their rector or a member of one of the five Colloquy committees, about how to become more in­volved. 
If you have any questions, please feel free to call me at 239-7668. This is your chance to be a part of the future of Notre Dame. Take the time to be heard. 
Molly A. O'Neill Student Body Vice President April9, 1992 
Accent 
Monday, April 27, 1992 page 11 

South BendLegal SePvices celebPates National VolunteeP Week 
By JOHN FISCHER 
Accent Writer 
D 
eborah Cataldo believes her employer, the Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana, is unique. 
Like hundreds of programs 
around the country, this orga­nization provides free legal representation in matters of civil law to underprivileged people. 
Unlike the others, however, the full­time paid staff is supplemented by an entire corps of volunteers, including several Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, who perform much of the organization's vital work. 
Cataldo, Volunteer Coordinator for Legal Services for the past three years, is planning to honor her volunteers this week as part of the National Volunteer Week celebration, which runs from April 27 to May 2. 
She has organized, along with the volunteer coordinators of other South Bend organizations, a continental breakfast that took place this morning. The breakfast included appearances by the mayors of South Bend and Mishawaka and was broadcasted by live remote on Sunny at 10:15. 
She is furthering the media's recognition of volunteers this week by making appearances on Mark Durocher's program on U93, Channel 22 News, and a Channel 16 special feature with Mike Collins, in addition to an article in the South Bend Tribune. 
The week culminates for Legal Services volunteers with a recognition dinner at the Morris Park Country Club on Thursday and free tickets to the South Bend White Sox game on Sunday. 
The theme of National Volunteer 
Week, "Volunteers at the heart of 
change," is evident to Deborah Cataldo. 
"Every day in America someone is doing 
something for someone else." As for her 
student volunteers, she says, "I get the real sense that they want to make a dif­ference. They care so much and they're so professional." 
Cataldo says the idea for strong volunteer involvement grew out of necessity. After nearly two decades of increasing governmental support be­ginning with the Johnson administration, former president Ronald Reagan cut the government's funding of legal services for the poor across the country. There had been five offices serving Northern Indiana. That number had to be reduced to two, South Bend and Lafayette. 
It was at this point in 1981 that the Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana decided to implement a com­prehensive volunteer program which has been in action ever since. What could have been a potentially fatal blow to the future of the program turned out to be a blessing in disguise, in large part due to the quality and dedication of the volun­teers. 

"They are wonderful," Cataldo says of the volunteers. "They have a vision for the future. Volunteers are America's greatest natural resource as far as I'm concerned." 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students account for 35 people in a volunteer corps that is 99 strong. With only 22 paid staff, it is clear that the organization could not survive without such a strong volunteer showing. According to Cataldo, the volunteers do work that would require an additional 5 full time, paid employees. "If we had to pay for the work these volunteers do, we'd go under," she says. 
Ten different jobs are currently performed by the volunteers, including the crucial tasks of client intake and at­torney assistant. 
Client intake has grown in importance since 1981, since the closing of three of their offices meant that call-in clients at Legal Services far outnumbered walk-in clients. Due to this shift, a toll-free number was installed and the task of client intake became larger, to the point where the volunteers now handle more than 70 calls per day. 
Most intake workers are students who are considering law as a career. Their task is to receive the calls of potential clients, gather information about them and their cases, and to write up reports for the attorneys. Joseph Adams is a sophomore intake worker. "This job gets me out into the South Bend community, which is good," he says. 
Some intake workers go on to become attorney assistants. These people do case research and help prepare court documents, as well as data input and serving as an administrative assistant. 
Student volunteers find a great deal of fulfillment in their work with Legal Services. Michaela Joyce, a junior at Saint Mary's, says of her experience, "If I didn't go in to Legal Services, there's so much I would have missed. You're so involved in your papers and assignments and then you go in and see other people's problems and realize your problems are nothing compared to theirs." 
Mary Lisa Penilla, a sophomore at Notre Dame, originally became involved because she liked the idea of offering free legal aid to people with low in­comes. Working at Legal Services, she says, "gives you the sense that there are people who really care." 
As for her volunteer status, she says, "They treat volunteers really well. They make us feel like we're really a part of the organization. They make sure the volunteer knows that they're needed." 
Cataldo says that student support is necessary to the continuance of Legal Services and would like any student interested in volunteering this summer or for the next school year to call her a~t 234-8121. Volunteer positions and internship opportunities are both available. 
Big BPothePs!Big SistePS PPOUPB~ hODOPS student volunteep 
By EMILY HAGE 
Accent Writer 
T 
he gift of friendship lives on. Fifth-year Engineering and 
Design major David 

Jones was awarded the Patrick John Niland Memorial Service Award for outstanding service to the Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County. In his two and one-half year commitment to the program, he has promoted the program on campus and supported its major fund-raiser, Bowl for Kids Sake. 
The award is given in memory of 1982 Notre Dame graduate Patrick John Niland, who was a Big Brother for three years. He was a final year medical stu­dent at the University of Michigan when he was killed in a car accident involving a drunk driver. 
His family established the memorial award to be given 
each year to honor a graduating Notre Dame student who exemplifies exemplary contributions of time and effort as a Big Brother or Big Sister. 
The Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County, starting as a Big Brothers program in 1968, was established to pro­vide positive role models for single-parent children, "high risk" children, according to Executive Director Deborah Bodnar. Notre Dame students "adopt" a child between the ages of six and twelve, and serve a parental role for their little brother or sister by taking him or her to a movie, out to eat, to a sporting event, or helping the child with his or her homework. Bodnar calls the program a "preventative pro­gram" to encourage motivation and self-esteem in children. 
Alumni Hall junior Chris Zepf, this year's president of the Student Association, which makes up 65 percent of the program's volunteers said that 

He added that the program needs more volunteers; there is a long waiting list of referred children, and this year approxi­
•-T 
Accent 
page 12 Monday, April 27,1992 
Seniors wrap up the year with the esc Rap Up 
By MATTHEW MOHS 
Accent Writer 

"Just sitting back trying to recapture a little of the glory of, but time slips and leaves you with nothing mister but boring stories of glory days." -Bruce Springsteen 
Most seniors agree that it seems like just last semester when they were incoming freshmen. Four years have flown by, never giving the stu­dents a chance to reflect upon what they were experiencing. A small percentage of the soon-to­be-graduates will, however, have a chance to ponder the experiences of the past four years before Senior Week-thanks to the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) Senior Hap Up groups. 
These small groups provide an environment conducive to serious discussion for seniors. The Hap Up groups confront and explore current issues that affect the world, the hopes and fears of the students for the fu­ture, and most importantly, the disappointments and joys of the Notre Dame experience. The groups give seniors a chance to "rap up" their time at Notre Dame with fellow students. 
Coordinator Mary Ann 
Roemer said, "The Rap Up groups provide some area to say good-byes seriously. It is a way to get a perspective on the past four years and a way to bring a diverse group of seniors together." 
Started nine years ago with fourteen seniors, the Rap Up groups have grown in number, enrolling 160 seniors this year. 
The seniors involved initially sign up for a specific day, Sunday through Thursday, on which they meet once a month for a meal in an off-campus home. The students are grouped by preference for day, usually with people they do not know. 
The CSC enlists faculty, staff, and couples associated with the university to host the group in their home for a meal and discussion. Whatever else happens varies based on the student leadership and input. 
Every aspect of the groups' organization depends on stu­dent involvement. The seniors take turns driving, shopping, cooking, and cleaning-up. They provide a couple of starting topics for discussion. The fac­ulty or staff members just invite the seniors into their homes for the meal, but do not prepare it. 
Getting off campus from the rigors of the daily routine is one of the advantages of the groups. It allows the seniors a chance to forget about graduation requirements, LSAT's, MCAT's, GRE's, and job hunting. They gather for a meal and a chance to make new friends. 
"I am thankful for the oppor­tunity Senior Rap Up has given me to meet member of the ND staff and other seniors who are mostly people I had never en­countered in a class or campus organization, and whom I probably would not have gotten to know had I not joined up with the CSC," explained senior Laura Matthias. 
For every meal, the group designates two members to do the cooking and cleaning. Each cook spends about $20 on gro­ceries and plans a menu. They arrive at the host house one hour early to put the finishing touches on their meal. 
"We get an [almost) gourmet meal once a month and often have enough left over for sec­onds the next day. We have something like lasagna, chicken fajitas, croissant sandwich bar, and an assortment of appetiz­ers, salads, and desserts. I am always stuffed," described Matthias. 
The meal, however, fosters the most important aspect of the sessions, the discussion. Senior Rob Shoenbauer found the groups "very attractive to get away from the hectic schedule and talk things out." 

The groups stay away from mundane topics such as classes, friends, and parties. The discussion revolves around real issues such as human rights, the role of women in society, and campus issues. 
Although the cooks bring a specific topic to talk about, the conversation usually strays to areas of greater interest. The most valuable discussions focus on the Notre Dame experience. Also, prospects for the future become heavily discussed as the year draws to a close. The Rap Up groups provide students with a forum for intellectual conversation outside of the classroom. 
In addition, the program en­courages informal faculty-stu­dent interaction. The hosts do not dominate the discussion or the groups; they participate in them. "The hosts let us go with conversation. They just offer opinions," said Schoenbauer. Roemer would like to see more informal interaction at the uni­versity but this "is a very small attempt at breaking down bar­
riers between students and fac­
ulty." 

Most of the people involved have wonderful experiences with Senior Rap Up. "Most say it is one of the best things at ND," replied Roemer. Shoenbauer sums up what he got out of the group, "just a real increased awareness that other people think the same way, explore the same issues." 
Since the CSC sponsors the groups, many students get a misconception about the pur­pose of Senior Rap Up. They mistakenly think that it must involve some sort of service work. Matthias described the purpose of the groups, "We are not exactly saving lives when we [gather], but, by the same token, we are celebrating and sustaining our own lives and those of each other." 
Senior Rap Up gives students a chance to ponder their Notre Dame experience before the "glory days." Any juniors in­terested in Senior Rap Up may join at the esc this week or contact Mary Ann Roemer for more information. 
Greenlields oilers an on-campus escape 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 

Assistant Accent Editor 
N 
estled comfortably in the Hesburgh Peace Institute on the south side of campus, 
Greenfield's provides an 
escape from the seemingly unending supply of hamburgers at on­campus dining halls. Inside this modestly sized and decorated cafe facing Notre Dame Avenue lies complete satisfaction for those in search of lighter, or even slightly daring, entrees. 
Any traditional Italian grandmother who stuffs her family with food until they can't eat any more should stay far away from Greenfield's Cafe. So should ravenous diners in search of hefty meat and potatoes platters, snubbers of gourmet, and people who value quantity over quality in their meals. For those who seek quality international cuisine small in size but large in taste, Greenfields is heaven on earth. 
Although selections on the menu are modest in size, they are also modest in
.
--price (no more than $4 for any entree). The quality of the food reflects the center's commitment to healthful dining and is well worth the cost. Entrees ranging from elegant salads to gourmet crepes and appetizer-like plates 
T • represent a truly international cuisine. With approximately seven selections on both the hot and cold menus, diners may choose anything from "Curried Chicken Salad" to "Crepe St. Michele," a delicately wrapped concoction of shrimp, 
cod and crab covered with a light melted cheese. Embellished with creamy sauces and unique spices, each dish provides just enough to satisfy the health-conscious eater who is more concerned with good company of his or her companions than a limitless platter of food. 
Although Greenfields opened a mere eight months ago, at the same time as is the best word to describe how diners are treated at the cafe; accommodating to the wishes of their patrons, offering tables near the windows or providing ca­sual conversation between ordering and receiving meals, appears to be a priority. 

Organized in a manner vaguely reminiscent of traditional cafeterias, Greenfield's is a far cry from Ponderosa or Arby's. Not only do the food and 
friendly service put cafeteria chains to shame, but the atmosphere is considerably more appealing than any of these places. In fact, only the green plastic trays, paper napkins, and 
refreshingly low price list remind diners 
they are not in a nationally reputed 
restaurant. 

The well-lit, high-ceilinged dining room is draped in dark green and peach hues, matched even by the fresh carnations on the tables. Large, comfortable chairs rest easily on the plush carpet, which stifles echoes and provides the opportunity for quiet, casual conversation. Visitors look out the wall-sized windows to the green lawn and the tree-lined stretch of Notre Dame Avenue. 
Glancing back into the kitchen, where chefs prepare their exquisite concoctions of international spices and fresh hot and cold dishes, diners cannot help but be impressed at the cleanliness of the cafe. The cooking area seems to have opened last week, not last semester, judging by its spotless contemporary appliances and countertops. 
Amidst a diverse crowd composed mostly of visitors and professors with students, one senses meaningful, intellectual exchanges at every table. The overall atmosphere, however, is anything but ostentatious. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students alike will find Greenfields a restaurant they can both afford and enjoy. Its elegance is modest and refreshing, its staff eager and sincere. Greenfields Cafe at the Hesburgh Institute is an on-campus dining option that feels refreshingly separate from the hustle of campus, providing an accessible escape without the price that escape usually entails. 
page 13
The Observer 

Monday, April 27, 1992 
Jazz, Bulls take 2-0 leads; Pistons knot series at one apiece 
SALT lAKE CITY (AP) _ Karl Danny Manning had 22 points against the Heat since Miami with 26 points and Glen Rice Malone scored 32 points and and Ron Harper 20 for the joined the league four years had 1?. 89 K . k 88 John Stockton had 21 points Clippers, in the playoffs for the ago. Pistons • ~IC s and 19 assists as Utah beat the first time since 1976, when the ."T~ey ~re the best 1,:2 ~om: .NEW YORK----: Is!ah Thomas Los Angeles Clippers 103-92 franchise was located in bmatwn m .the league, Mm~m ~ut the g~me-wmnmg, 16-foot 
Sunda for a 2-0 lead in their Buffalo. coach Kevm Loughery said. JUmpe~ WI.th 7.6 seconds left. as fi t y d 1 ff ies Bulls 120 Heat 90 "Pippen has become a better Detroit tied the best-of-five IrJer~0~~lo~:Y:dd~~ 24. points CHICAGO _ Michael Jordan shooter and ballhandler and series at one game apiece. Joe for the Jazz who can sweep the scored 33 points, and Scottie that takes the pressure off D~mars, held scoreless f~r 26 best-of-5 se~ies with a victory in Pippen added 30 as the Bulls Jordan." . mi.nut~s, scored all of his 21 
Game 3 Tuesday in Los Angeles. improved to 16-0 in games Rony Seikaly led the Heat pomts m the second half. 
Correction 
Due to an editor's error, David DiLucia was misidenti­fied in Friday's paper as Ron Rosas. 
Due to a columnist's error, the wrestling team's endow­ment was incorrectly estimated at $3 million. The correct amount is $1.5 million. 
The Observer regrets the er­rors. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
$$ FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat Pandora's Books corner of NO ave & Howard reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday 
SUMMER TOURS TO EUROPE, AUSTRALIA AND THE GREEK 
ISLANDS. 15-19 days. All expenses paid including meals. $1395-$1798. Call Contiki Tours 1-800-950-1037 ext. #2. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
Typing 
Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
TEXAS: I'm driving home for the summer to Austin and I don't want to do it alone. Want io help, call Bill x4274 
LOST/FOUND 
Lost: thin gold bracelet between North Dining Hall and Knott or Knott and Grace-sentimental value­if found please call x4914. 
LOST-gold ring with black stone encircled by white rhinestones; lost in restroom of North Dining Hall 
EXTREME SENTIMENTAL VALUE 
please call Elizabeth xt918 
LOST NO STARTER JACKET AT SR. BAR ON 4/23. DID YOU GRAB THE WRONG ONE? LAUNDRY TAG IN JACKET WITH LAST NAME "ABBATE" AND NUMBER "80001". CJI.LL TONY@ 277-6048. 
Lost: black fold-up umbrella, 
plain wooden handle, 
automatic mechanism. If 
found, please contact Suzanne 
at 271-0657. 
LOST...SILVER CHAIN-LINK BRACLET. Somewhere btwn. Frat House,Bridget's,&main circle on the Wed. before Easter(4/15). GREAT sent. value!$$ Anne X2580 
LOST LOST LOST LOST LOST !!II! 
A Gold Claddaugh Ring. 
Somewhere between: 
PW and Keenan/Stanford 
and 
PW and Lafortune 
Please, this ring has great sentimental value. If you find it please call X2873 and ask for Mary Jo. 
Found silvr hoop earring by Law School Weds. Lett at securty bldng 
FOUND: A blue Eddie Bauer windbreaker on 2nd floor of Stanford. Call Dan-X2067 to claim it. 
WANTED 
Even though MR. BUSH is speaking at graduation, my aunt still wants to come. Please help her out;Sell me a graduation ticket. Call x4233 
MOVING TO LA? 
I'm looking for roommates to live 
near Manhattan Beach alter 
graduation. 
CALL JULIE xt342 
Summer Roemmate needed 
Turtle Creek apartment 
Call x2891 
$350.00/ DAY PROCESSING 
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE 
NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. 
THE ASSOCIATES TEMPORARY POSITION: MARKETING RESEARCH ANALYST-Proficient in Paradox, Lotus and MultiMate. Responsible for developing and analyzing statistical reports. Please call (219) 271-6342 to schedule an interview. 
NO PROFESSOR & GRAD. STUDENT NEED BABYSITIER FOR FALL FOR 2 CHILDREN, 
2-1/2 YRS. & 6 MOS., IN OUR HOME WHILE WE ARE WORKING THERE. 10-20 HRS./WK. CALL 233-6901. $5/HR. 
Going to Chicago alter graduation? Me too! Looking for female non-smk roommate(s}. Karen 2770 
BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 3 CHILDREN DURING SUMMER. FULL-TIME, NON-SMOKING, AND RELIABLE. OWN TRANSPORTATION A MUST. GOOD SWIMMER PREFERRED. PLEASE CONTACT MICHELE AFTER 5:30 AT 277-5374. 
ALL NEW IN '92! Distribute bumper stickers and T­shirts. Help America and your wallet. Calll-800-584-0757 nights or weekends. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. 
BE ON T.V many needed for commercials. Now hiring all ages. For casting info. Call (615} 779-7111 Ext. 1678. 
Female roommate needed for Williamsburg Apt. June 1st $234.50. Call 258-5702 
SALES PERSON WANTED FOR FOOD VENDING CART ON THE WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BE ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288­1454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900 NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS. 
-

FOR RENT 
1 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153. 
2 Bedroom 
Walk to Campus $390 Month 
232 3616 

RESERVE YOUR 2, 4, or 5 
Bedroom House for 92-93 NOW! 
Safe Area, Private Parking 
Lot, Volleyball & Basketball Court, 
Semi-Furnished. Call 234-1886 
New condo available mid-May 
thru mid-August. COMPLETELY 
furnished, incl­

uding linen, towels, and dishes. 2 
bedrooms, 2 baths. 
Walking distance to ND campus. 
Call Kathleen -277­
1709. 

SUMMER SUBLET 
TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 
FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO 
BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE 
HALF BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO, 
LARGE LIVING AREA, WALKING 
DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. 
CALL ERIC Xt392 
CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN 
Xt376 
CALL KEN X1385 
Summer Sublet 

Furnished 2 Bedroom 
272-9817 

Share 2Br house with M Grad Student. Laundry, Garage, Garden, Porch, Air Cond. Avail May 1.$260 plus phone. 288-3878. 
ATIRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN LOVELY OLD VICTORIAN BLDG. NEAR N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL 2879634 FOR SUMMER AND FALL RENTALS. 
ONE WEEK TIME SHARE. 
RENT $700 USA, $800 OTHER. 
60-90 DAYS NOTICE 
USE BY AUGUST 8 
616-435-5805. 
HOUSE FOR RENT $150/mo. Call Paul287-2159. 
SUMMER SUBLET: TURTLE CK 
NEED 3RD ROOMATE X4070 
2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, summer school. $200/mo. Use of all facilities. Close to campus, safe neighborhood. 232-2794. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 92-93 
4 5 6 BDRMS FULLY 
FURNISHED SECURITY 
SYSTEMS WASHERS/DRYERS 
287-4989 

SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG. 
NEAR N.D. WILL RENT 
INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT 
A DISCOUNTED RATE 
CALL2879624 
"Our Old House· Michigan Bed and Breakfast. 35 Mins. from Campus. (616} 435-5365. 
A riverfront sharp home and 
apartment for rent weekends or 
short terms. 219-257-9101/219­
291-6100. 

4 Bedrm house for summer. 
Furnished, less than 1/2 mile 
from campus, safe neighborhd. 
Cheap rent! AGNES x2769 
Attention bisexual women 
(and other interested parties}: 
Turtle Creek sublet available. Call 
Rian @ X1209 for details. 
Kicked off campus? Sexually harrassed by your roommate for the 1992-93 school year? Three (adjective) guys are looking for a Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris @ XI 088 if you need us as much as we need you. We've been Philled! 
RENT 1 BDRM APT nr NO 
$250+Utll.,dep. 287-7039. 
I FOR SALE 
. 

INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. 
Good rates. Save Money. Call me 
for a quote 9:30-6:00, 
289-1993. Office near campus. 
ATIENTION: COUCH 
&MATCHING LOVESEAT, & 
RECLINER 4 SALE-MUST SEE­
$150 271-9165 
FURNITURE FOR SALE 
Beds, Couches and More 
CHEAP 

Call277-3610 
airline ticket from SB to NWK 
(0/W) on 5/18 (Male}. Call288­
9806. 

Airline ticket from South Bend to 
Newark, NJ on 5/9 
also selling bedroom dresser 
Michael277-2151 
Round trip, nonrefundable air 
tix-CHICAGO to JUNEAU, 
ALASKA leave Chicago on 5-24, 
returns on 5-31, 617$ value for 
ONLY 400$! call312-988-7964­
leave message. 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 
89 MERCEDES ......... $200 
86 vw.......................$ 50 
87 MERCEDES ......... $! 00 
65 MUSTANG ........... $ 50 
Choose frorn thousands starting 
$25. 

FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals 
Giveaway Prices. 
801-379-2929 
Copyright #IN11 KJC. 
88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K mi! Hundreds below blue book! Jim W239-6064/H273-9059 
ALASKA JOBS $1000+/wk, room, board, airfare. Now hiring. (503} 754-6051 ext. 8. 
'79 Toyota Corolla ... Good Condition ...72,000 miles ... $500 or best offer Call x3816 for more info 
LOFTS FOR SALE 
Call Shannon X4944 
LOFTS FOR SALE 
Airplane Seat 4 Sale! $75 for tray table and all! Call 273-9316 Today! 
TICKETS 

Extended Catholic family from NJ. Need as many GRAD TIX as humanly possible. Call Teresa x2899 to haggle 
FOR SALE:One-way plane ticket to San Jose,CA for May 9th-CHEAP!!­call Samx4863 
FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. Jim x1558. 
Need 1 or2 grad tix. Let's make a deal. Ron 3315, leave message. 
One way plane tic. SB to Denver -May 9 $80 Brian 287-5987 

NEED GRAD. TIX -CALL 277­
1958 
I NEED GRAD TIX! call273-9316 
PERSONAL 
l 

SUMMER IN EUROPE FROM $251 each way on discounted scheduled airlines to Europe frorn CHICAGO. Call (800} 325-2026. 
Help Me, Please 

I need graduation tickets if anyone has some they are not going to use. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any info. 
please, help me 
Meg, ' FRIENDS FOREVER' AND 'LOVE YOU ALWAYS!' Love, Land M 

WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in your tummy by accident? Loving doctor and his stay at home wife would like to discuss Baby's future with you. Please call us collect anytime. (219} 462-5250. Debra and Michael. 
Alicia .... 

WANTED: A r<¥1ional explanation for the termination of the NO wrestling program. Must be logical, coherent, TRUE and must not make the university look like a bunch of money-hungry idiots. If you can help us out, call Athletic Czar DICK Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1­800-GET-CLUE. 
P.S. What team is next on the list? 
U P S on CAMPUS 
We don't miss a day! Ship 
your stuff home now and 
relax during Finals Week. 
M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-2 

239-6714 at THE COUNTRY HARVESTER lower level LaFortune 

For sale: Pair of 100 watt Sony speakers. Call xt563 
"When people are at their worst, that's when I do my best" 
-Joe Godin 
I am just a pirate, Slipping on my pop-tops, Blowing out my flip flops, Eating Cheeseburgers in paradise, Because I am Mr. Buffet Stryker, With my Belt Buckles and chocolate chips ... 
COMING SOON 
Allegro open 24 hours! 

My aunt dated George Bush and now she wants grad tix! x41 08 
'AUDREY GOMEZ SEXY TALENTED EXCEPTIONAL VIBRANT EXTREME 

HEY HONKS, YOU CRAZV READIN', WRITIN', LONG-HAIRED WIERDO HIPPIE FREAK 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY BIG GUY. WE LOVE YOU. LOVE, ROOM239 
ATIENTION SUMMER 

STUDENTS: VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
233-4767 
HAIRCUTS: $5.50 
hey nif 

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23 SEAMAISIN 
to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin 

to the star chamber under the dome: lyin', cheating', hurtin', that's all you seem to do -led zeppelin 
HOW WOULD I DESCRIBE FOUR YEARS UNDER THE MALLOY ADMINISTRATION? "DRIVES ME INSANE, TROUBLE'S GONNA COME TO YOU"-LED ZEPPELIN 
ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS A BABY! Young financially secure Catholic couple looking to adopt and provide a loving home to an infant. All Expenses paid. Please call collect (317} 364-0300 for more information. 
ADOPTION Childless, Christian, Couple wishes to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­322-8187. 
I am a worm, slowly and surely sinking deeper into the bowels of the earth, putting more desolation between me and the universe 
STAY AWAY FROM LAFORTUNE COMPUTER LAB AFTER 10 PM! If you're typing a paper and you want a computer, don't come late at night. EVERYBODY COMES THEN AND THERE'S ALWAYS A WAITING LIST!!!!!!! Go in the morning, it's peaceful and available ... 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! 
KATELYN MCGUIRE: YEAH! The "almost' Big B-Day is here! Happy 19th birthday (minus 2 months} from all your admirers! Sorry you won't be on campus to celebrate, but our best wishes are nethertheless sincere! 
P.S. This greeting will have to last for TWO years since you'll probably be in Australia for your 20th. 
HAPPY B-DAY' HAPPY B-DAY 
P.P.S. Is this REALLY your first mention in the personals? 
NEED: ld. or rhyth. GUITARIST summer &/or next year for the Metha-tones. call 271-0742 or 288-4859 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GODI 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! 
Take time to smell the roses! Apply for a position at Irish Gardens today! Applications available at the store, due Wed. 4/29 
EG 11!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
This is subtle 
If Hems doesn't shut up, the karaoke machine will also get shoved up his asteroids. 
Happy Wednesday clean·lngs. 
SENIORS Going to grad school at UT@ Austin next year? I'm looking for a roommate. Interested -call Jack x3636 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! 
NEED $$$? RENT ME YOUR HESBURGH GRADUATE STUDY ROOM-ASAP-5/7192 BIG $$ CHRIS 273-9316 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! 
DR. STAT; I'M FREQUENTLY DISENCHANTED WITH THE 
FACT THAT YOU HAVE PRACTICALLY TERMINATED ALL COMMUNICATION WITH 
THE COUNCIL ELITE. DR. LOVE, THE SQUIRE AND I MISS YOU. LOVE, DOCTOR SIN/COSIN. 
MONEY TO LOAN Personal -Business 1-800-238-9755 
Open 7 days 9a.m.-10p.m. Bryan Reed. Phone# 713-699­2494. 
I need graduation tickets .... PLEASE! I have more relatives coming here for the weekend than there were participants in Bookstore Basketball. 
Call Liza at 283-4833 
GARTH BROOKS IS A GOD! 
ST. EDWARD'S 
-=--· 
·······~­
RAGHIB "ROCKET" ISMAIL 
SPl:AKS ON 
"MY LiFE SINCE I LEFT NOTRE DAI\IE" 
Monday, April 27 7:flfii'.M. 

page 14 
Gauchos 

continued from page 20 
play of Vazquez. "The game was really physi­cal," said Vazquez. 
"I did not expect us to win this easily," commented Bose, chosen MVP of the tournament by the Bookstore commission­ers. "It took a total team effort to win today." 
"Things have been building up for us, " said Mr. Bookstore Toner (Mr. Bookstore is awarded to the player which best represents the tourney). "Everything came together to­day. We could not have played any better." 
Gauchos benefitted from a dry court, which had not been the case much of this week. The Gauchos used team speed to open an 11-5 halftime lead. 
For much of the half, Tequila ran into hard-luck shooting. It seemed like nothing was going to fall for the number-one seed. 
The second half opened with an alley-oop by Vazquez on a 
Rattle 
continued from page 20 
moves and tough defensive pressure. A Nowlin coast-to­coast lay-up gave Rattle only an 11-8 halftime edge. 
However, Rattle shooters fell cold early in the second half, and Ring took advantage, pulling within one at 11-10 and 12-11. 
But the cold streak did not last long before Rattle went back to their big scorers for a wake-up call. Nelligan's 15­footer and Nowlin's baby hook pushed Hattie out of its slump and on to a solid victory. 
Vitale 
continued from page 20 
hearing Vitale's voice from outside the stadium. Their intention was not the one most desired by the lacrosse team. but the support they delivered after entering Krause Stadium certainly was. 
It isn't likely that Vitale's voice will be heard from the pressbox on May 1 when the Irish and Michigan State face 
r -a:-U::.:.1'..r:=s.-;.• ~I 
I S.t.IIJOO.J,IOO 
I I I MAPLE LANE I I I I BARBER SHOP 1 
I Servinc the Notre Dame I I Community for over ~o yeara I I 2112 South Bend Avenue I I S<luth Sene. IN 46637 I 
I AppOintments If Desired I 
I 272-6722 I 
·-----------· 
pass from Toner to extend the lead. The Gauchos were on its way when Tequila went on a 3­0 run to bring the score to 15­
9. Gauchos sealed the game by scoring five points on free throws. Vazquez put in a lay-up to end the tournament. 
The Gauchos reached the fi­nals by squeaking by the num­ber-two seed Just Chillin' 21-19 on Saturday. 
The Gauchos trailed Just Chillin' 7-3 and 10-7, but ended up taking an 11-10 lead at halftime. Just Chillin' battled back to tie the game at 14. 
Gauchos took the lead again and Kevin Rule of Just Chillin' tied the game at 15. At this point, the game was up for grabs. Then DiGiovanni stole the ball and went up for what was going to be the go-ahead bucket for the Gauchos. 
However, DiGiovanni at­tempted to dunk the ball and bounced the ball off the back of the rim. Mike May got the ball and scored a bucket to put Just Chillin' up one in what ap­peared to be a turning point. 
As the game wore down to the wire, Nowlin took control of the Rattle offense, calling for the ball in the low post. Her free throw at 20 and strong put-back at 21 finished the game for Rattle. 
Rattle got into the champi­onship game after a 21-17 vic­tory over Exsqueeze Me on the windy, rain-soaked Stepan court Saturday morning. In that game, Nelligan got Rattle rolling early with hot outside shooting. 
Haggerty again led the of­fense at the point for Rattle, which used its 2-3 zone to keep Exsqueeze off the boards. 
Exsqueeze, led by Sandy Botham, played tough, but could not stop Rattle's solid of-
off to determine the NCAA's West Regional bid. It is likely that some of the nation's finest lacrosse will be played on the field. 
If one lacrosse game can 
The Observer 


BOOKSTORE XXI BASKETBALL 
Championship Game 
Gaucho's 21 Tequila White Lightning 11 
Gaucho's #1 Tequila White Lig 
fgtatt fVatt total reb fgtatt Watt total 4/8 1/1 5 2 Cullinan 1/5 0/0 1 4 216 010 2 2 Ratigan 3/8 0/1 3 5 
3/6 2/2 5 6 Jones 3/17 010 3 3 1/1 0 3/4 4 4 MacKinnon 2/6 010 2 2 5/12 0/0 5 5 Casey 2/9 010 2 1 
ALL-BOOKSTORE TEAMS 
FIRST TEAM SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM 
Matt Caaey. Tequila White AndyCuroe. Malicious Prosecution Rueaell Allegrette. Fighting Lightning Rich Rowllng. Malicious Kernals Dave Cu. Just Chillin" Prosecution Tom Kelly. Crime Dogs Ed Larkin, Bridget's Paul Fulling. Bridgat"s Lou Nanni. All the Presldent"s Mallon Crook, Ebony Side P.J. Stettln. Salubrious & Men of the Dome Callipigious John Pollack, Bitter Rob Vazquez. Gaucho"s Kevin Warren. All the Prasldant"s Jack Donahue. Bridgers 
Men 

Tournament MVP: David Bose, Gaucho's Bookstore Hoosier: Kevin McGee, 5 Man Acoustical Jam Mr.Bookstore: Mike Toner, Gaucho's The Observer/ Beth Duane 
However, Vazquez took over and scored four of the last six points including the game win­ner. 
For Tequila, the road to the finals included a 22-20 win over Bridget's on Saturday. 
~Wome11's Bopkstore
CZ2V Champtonshtp Game 
RaNia and Humrrus 21 Ring My Belle/ 16 
fg R toto! roll fg R total rob Nowln 6116 1/3 7 6 Snyder 3113 112 4 7 Toohey 1/6 1/f 2 8 Homea ol/9 217 6 . 6 Hobday 4f7 tv5 " 10 Cl.-nena 2/11 OAl 2 Nel•gan 6115 0/1 6 5 Convtle 318 CW1 3 Haggorty 1!15 112 2 2 Power• 119 010 I 2 
Women's Bookstore Awards 

MVP: Maureen Nelligan. Rattle and Humrrus MI.. Bookatore: Anne Hartzel. CJ's Pub Hoollier Award: Dana CiacareiU. 4 Babes and a Chtck The Obawvw/Beth Duane 
Iensive now. Rattle got into foul trouble early, but Exsqueeze didn't convert on its free throws, allowing Rattle to finish the game out with outside shots by Nelligan and Haggerty. 
Ring My Belle I got into the championship game after a for-
drive a basketball junkee like Vitale into saying, "This is so exciting, I'm going to have to talk about this on ESPN," then it is certainly worthy of notice by the Notre Dame student body. 
·Happy last week of classes! 
,. --,
-BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY ­
I 
BUY at INVOICE* I I
I 
College Graduates I 
ND&SMC $500 I 
1 Students and Faculty Rebate** 1 
I

I dt'Jiit ~ 
__ __ ~~ ""'"'" Hyunda1.._.-I
1~
1. ..~-;. . 5£ifi6la Qi)~ I r :• 1 Ill"' rnu•TAn• 
SoouHLS 
I

I any new FORD or HYUNDAI l=or Details contact: BASNEY FORD O I 
9 91
..AJIARK HOUSER JEL 1 HvuncR• 1 Phone 2 1-6
r... ~ lmB!J 32o EAsT IRELAND ROAD 1 Sales Representative souTH BEND.If':l.46614 
1

I ·Rebate to dealer: Plus tax. c1oc.• tttte and tags...Ford vehicles only. -• • • BRING THIS COUPON TO QUALIFY -• • • 
The game between Tequila and Bridget's was a see-saw affair which saw two teams with different philosophies battle. In the end Tequila was able to walk away with a win. For much of the game, Bridget's had led or the game was tied. 
feit by Look, But Don't Touch. Look failed to show up for their 
10:00 a.m. showdown with Ring on Saturday morning. 
After the title game, Maureen Nelligan received the game MVP award. Nelligan, a senior from Saint Joseph, Mich., walked on the women's varsity squad during her freshman year. 
"It was just a lot of fun to play in the tournament, and the [championship] game was a good, clean game," Nelligan said after Sunday's game. 
Anne Hartzell from CJ's Pub received the tournament MVP. Hartzell led CJ's Pub to the quarterfinals before being knocked out by Ring My Belle I. 
Monday, April 27, 1992 
Softball has mixed results over weekend 
Special to the Observer 

The Notre Dame softball team battled the cold weather and a stubborn Northeastern Illinois team to gain a sweep of the Golden Eagles Friday at home. 
The Irish won the first game in the 11th after Carrie Miller singled in Sara Hayes, who had singled and advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt by Stephanie Pinter. 
In the second game, Notre Dame won 2-0 behind the two-hit pitching of Missy Linn. 
When Saturday's game began at 2 p.m., no one imagined Notre Dame and Loyola would still be playing five hours later. But that's what happened. 
The Irish split two, losing the first 1-0 in 15 innings and winning the second 6-0. 
The first game took over three hours to complete and was the longest in Notre Dame softball history. 
In the second game, Notre Dame took control early, scoring two in the first and third and adding insurance runs in the fifth and sixth. 
The Eastern Illinois softball team weren't very nice hoslc; as they swept the Irish team, 4-3 and 1-0, on Sunday. In the opener, the Irish could manage only a bases-loaded triple by Christy Connoyer. 
In the second game, the Irish wasted the five-hit pitching of Linn as they managed only four hits in being shut out for the thirteenth time this season. 
.. 

-, 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a l1fetime of service a\ a Holy Cross prie~t or brother. Scholarship assistance is availabk. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-6385 
SMC We Aire IF<Blmliliy Weelk continues ... 
Party All Over The World 
8-12 Tonight at Dalloway's--Folkdancing & Spanish Guitar 
Monday, April 27, 1992 The Observer Page 15 



During the Fall Semester, 1991, students participated in fo~ms 
asked: "Of what social value is Mass many of our future Catholics will 
designed to gather information to be presented to the NatiOnal 
attendance?" and "What are the have their faith severely tested by the
Catholic Bishops, who will meet at Notre Dame, June, 1992. 
spiritual benefits of attending Mass?" continued exclusion of women from
Following those forums, most of which were held in various 
The term community came up over full ministry in the Church.
residence halls, a hearing among theologians allowed for an 
and over again. We draw from this 
opportunity to discuss the implicat.ions of those findin~s. . . 
the challenging conclusion that the 3. The meaning of this to you as 
As was promised when the Commtttee on Notre Dame s Position on 
Catholics of the future will be pastoral leaders in the Church. There 
the Ordination of Women began this endeavor, the draft of the Open 
looking for a definite community has been abundant theological 
Letter to the Bishops is now being presented to you. 
dimension in their.worship of God. discussion of this matter in recent years (Canon Law Society's 
The next question we asked was: Committee on the Status of Women
You are encouraged to read this as it reflects many of your insights 
"What is a priest?" Once again the in the Church, 1975; Pontifical
and concerns. 
answers varied considerably, but Biblical Commission, 1975; Catholic there was also an unavoidable Theological Society of America,
Please join with members of the Committee and the wider Notre 
recurring theme. The following 1978). "We need more study" seems
Dame Community as we gather in a prayer-dialogue . . 
words will convey the idea: to us to be a patent refusal to face the 
commemorating a Doctor of the Church, a courageous VISIOnary: St. 
pastoral issue. This issue is no longer
Catherine of Siena. April29, Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh 
-"religious expert who can help the practical possibility of full 
Library Lounge. You will have an opportunity to comment on the 
people to get to know God," ministry of women. It is rather the 
letter before its final drafting. 
-"guide us and show us how to very faith of many young people in live out Jesus' values," the Church who experience their -"guide to living a Christian Church as courting discrimination at recognized your committee was not 
life," the very time it excoriates it. 
Gender matters little vis-a-vis 
and is not free to face the issue of -"help you in your pursuit of
Church ministries. What matters 
women in a truly open and honest 
God," 4. Proposed possibilities for fostering 
are gifts to be shared. Some 
way. With this in mind, our -"conveyor of God's word." greater equality. Whereas we realize
women have gifts for prayer, 
committee decided to do what you as bishops you must cooperate with
counselling, preaching. So why 
could not do: draw up a pastoral 
Of course, there were other the Holy See, we make the following
not allow to lead the church in her 
letter on women to be presented to 
perspectives ("perform sacraments," requests which are within your own
various liturgies? 
you as you arrived at Notre Dame in 
"represent the hierarchy," "perform power to implement. 
June, 1992. The pastoral would religious ceremonies"). But many, 
-A Notre Dame student 

follow the methodology effectively many students look to priests for 1) That you make it clear to the used in The Challenge of Peace and guidance on the Christlife above all, international hierarchy that theYour Excellency, Justice for All. We would hold 
verbal and exemplary. attrition rate of women (andhearings on campus, hearings that some men) from the Church hasAs you can see by the stationary would be open to all points of view When we asked "Are there distinct reached significant proportion; used here, we are a group of women and voices. We hoped to return to the roles for women and men in theand men professors and campus groups with a draft that they Catholic church?" many 2) That it be recognized that theadministrators, a community of could criticizes and/or support. We acknowledge the de facto distinction Church's present policy can beChristians, who represent various did hold hearings and gathered all but did not accept its foundation. In perceived as unjustly deprivingdepartments across the campus of the responses that time allowed. 
their words: Catholics of the Eucharist;the University of Notre Dame. What brought us together is a commonly As a lengthy pastoral letter would be 
-"Women are just as able to 3) That you faithfully and justlyshared concern about the position of counterproductive, given your witness as men. Only give equal financial and spiritualwomen in the Church, and reading load, we decided to send traditionprevents them from support to men and women whoespecially, the exclusion of women you a kind of open letter detailing being priests," wish to train in Theology atfrom the priesthood. Briefly, we are our modest efforts here at Notre -"We believe both men and every level, and do your utmostconvinced that the continuing Dame in the hope that they would women should be able to become to provide them with meaningfulexclusion of women from the encourage you to remain open on priests," employment with every healthpriesthood sends a powerful and this subject and keep the dialogue -"There are distinct roles but I and other benefit;destructive message to believers and going. 
don' t think there should benon-believers alike about the In this open letter, we want to 1) tell 
based on gender alone, " 4) That you appoint womenChurch's attitude toward women, a you some of the things we learned in -"Gender matters little. " -elected democratically) to every message no encyclicals, pastoral our hearings; 2) reflect on them committee within the Church;letters or token appointments can briefly; 3) suggest what they mean to Nearly every responder felt that thecounterbalance. We believe that the you as pastoral leaders; 4) propose present situation should change. 5) That you continue to listen to efficacy of the Church's mission is at possibilities for fostering greater the plural sources of the Spiritstake in the way this matter is faced equality. The third item may seem 2. A brief reflection. As we reflect on concerning the ordination ofand resolved. 
arrogant, but we assure you we our hearings we want to underline women. 
undertake it out of love for our several things. The students weNotre Dame, as a leading Catholic Church. 
talked to are being raised in an We are very aware of the manyeducational institution and one that egalitarian society, one that at least pastoral problems you face asseeks to enrich the life of the Church, 1. What we learned in our hearings. 
aspires to treat men and women bishops. We are especially sensitive should marshall its resources to keep We asked the students several alike. Secondly, they are students to the coercive atmosphere thatthis issue alive and flourishing on questions. One was: "Why do you go with no direct experience of the pre­surrounds even the discussion of thisour campus. We are not naive in our to Mass?" As you might expect the Vatican II church (especially, its subject by bishops. But because weattempts to do this. We realize we are answers were kaleidoscopic. 
exclusively patriarchal aspects). see this question as a core faith a small group and that Notre Dame Thirdly, they are therefore very concern of our young Catholics, weis but a dot on the Church's 
-"to have time for self­
sensitive to any kind of gender are emboldened to beg you, geographic map. But our conviction reflection," discrimination in the Church . To notwithstanding the difficulties andis steadfast: the Spirit can use the -"to prayer and worship," them, it is baffling f 1 ing and unjust threats, to keep the subject open tohumblest of efforts and the most -"because I feel guilty when I just . In a sense the very credibility of discussion in your diocese.
insignificant of human voices for don't." 
the faith is tied to this issue, since lasting good. For more than 26 years, 
human dignity is at the heart of the Thank you sincerely for listening to the questions have been raised here. 
One point, however, stood out: us.
Christian message, andIn this spirit over the last three years, community. Many students discrimination negates it. That is the this committee held here public expressed themselves in the 
way many of those students who Sincerely,lectures, seminars, panels and other following terms: participated saw the problem. 
activities that concerned the ordination of women. The Committee on 
-"to share my faith with 
When you add to this that they see 
Notre Dame's Position
others," worship largely in terms of

In the fall of 1991, keenly aware of on the Ordination of
-"to share within a community, the priesthood heavily the NCCB's work on the proposed 
Women
community," in terms of guidance, and men andpastoral letter on women in the -"I find the togetherness women as equally capable and calledchurch and the theological-pastoral uplifting and supporting." 

to this kind of guidance within thisconstraints Rome places on the kind of community, you realize thatepiscopal drafting committee, we 
Similar answers emerged when we 

Blue 
continued from page 20 

Gold to their first touchdown ten minutes into the game. McDougal hit Adrian Jarrell with a 25-yard strike, before Becton carried for another 25 yards of his own to the Blue 18­yard line. McDougal took care of the rest, scampering 18 yards for the score, giving the Gold a 7-0 lead. 
Three plays later, Mirer coughed up the ball and the Gold team was back on the at­tack. McDougal hit Jarrell again, this time for 17 yards to the Blue six-yard line. McDougal took it into the end zone on the next play and the Gold team had a surprising 14­0 lead. 
"That was the best McDougal has played since he's been at 
..-----11111!~~~~~~~~~~~~~------., provement between now and
UNUSUAL SUMMER next fall," he said. 
JOB ON CAMPUS 
WNDU neecb a vacation refief technician for summer e01ployment from May throuch September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, tele"VUion, cable, and satellite equipment. Thb u ideal for a technically-minded science/engineer student "With a kncnvledge of electricity and electronics. The position u for up to 40 hours per 
HALFOFTHE PEOPLE 
week, includes shiftwork, and requires a vafid driver's license with Coaunercial endorsement. Please apply at the WNDU Studios Ma .1st. 

WHO READ THISAD WON1GETINm 

... 
Seniors Give Thanks! 
LAWSCHOOL. 

Here's a surprise lesl of your malh skills. access to our computers and sludy programs.
Seniors are invited to audition to 
Divide 95, 000 law school appl icanls into Plus. v.e offer Ihe lw~ay lSAT Intensive·Study
read at the Baccalaureate Mass. 
44,000 openings. Now you realize why ii's Clinic the lost week before the exam.
Six readers will be needed. 
so 1mporlonl to lake the Ror·kin lSAT Reserve your place in oor lSAT course by 
Preporalion course. MJy 15 and we'll include lhe $225 clinic for 
First 'PJ'IItake a free diagnosl1r lest. Then hee Coli Rankin today and find out how the
Auditions will be held at 4:00 pm. on Tuesday & Wednesday. April 28 & 29 
we 'II work with you in bener holf gets mlo the 
at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart. 

~~~~~:~~:~~[~ RONKIN.GETIN: ~~:c:chool of !heir 
lSAl•GMAT•GRE•MCAT•TE' r PREPARATION AI-JD APPliCATION ASSISTANCE 0fv1PUS CPMrlinator: Sr. Teresita MNIS1RY For Infor11Wtion: Peg Houk 239-7091 
THE OFFER: RESERVE BY MAY 15. SAVE $225. 
South Bend 273-1866 

The Observer Monday, April 27, 1992 

McDougal, Johnson make bid for backup QB 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
In late January, when Hick Mirer announced his decision to stay at Notre Dame for his senior season, Irish football fans across the country breathed a collective sigh of relief. 
The thought of the untested Kevin McDougal or baseball player Paul Failla leading the Irish to a national champi­onship was incomprehensible by the fans' high standards, which set the number-one ranking as a singular goal. 
With Mirer taking snaps, Notre Dame possessed a much more formidable attack than a McDougal-led offense, which had only been showcased in practice and in blowouts. 
But Saturday afternoon, McDougal quieted many doubters, as he showed the high school form which made him one of the most sought­after quarterbacks in the class of 1990. 
"That was the best McDougal has played since he's been here at Notre Dame," said coach Lou Holtz after Saturday's 28-22 Blue victory in the 62nd annual Blue-Gold game. "I was impressed with him." 
Though McDougal's Gold squad came out on the short end of the spring's final in­trasquad scrimmage, his 148 yards passing and 43 yards rushing were the most pleasant 
Giants take Brown in first round 
Observer Staff Report followed in the second round to 
the New England Patriots. 

Five Notre Dame players The Irish backfield went next were selected as the NFL held with Rodney Culver landing at the first five rounds of its the 85th slot to the Indianapolisannual draft yesterday. Colts. Tony Brooks will be 
carrying the ball for the 
Tight end Derek Brown was Philedelphis Eagles, who the highest pick of the group, selected him in the fourth going with the 14th pick in the round. Center Gene McGuire 
first round to the New York went three slots later to the Giants. Cornerback Rod Smith New Orleans Saints. 
surprises of the game. 

For most of the game, McDougal outshined Mirer, who had 190 quiet yards on 13-of­23 passing. MeDougal's option running, though lacking Clint Johnson's flash, got the job done, as he scored twice during 
the  Gold's  14-point  fourth  
quartnr.  
On  each  run,  the  junior  

gracefully threaded his way through tacklers and blockers. But while McDougal gallivanted around Notre Dame Stadium's north end zone, Johnson was zipping around at midfield. 
Johnson, who starred as a high school option quarterback, switched with Mimr for several plays, the two-year starting signal-caller showing his stuff at split end. 
"Hick Mirer looked really good at split end," said Holtz. "They respected him out there. They covered him. We're look­ing at some options and that could be one." 
Showing off the speed which makes him the most viable Irish big-play threat, Johnson gained 12 yards on his first keeper out of the option, and then pitched the ball to Jerome Bettis for a 13-yard gain on a later play. 
With his performance Saturday, Johnson established himself as a solid option behind center. That, combined with McDougal's new stature in the eyes of Irish supporters and coaches, could spell success after Mirer. 
Notre Dame," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. 
But that was about all the highlights for Regis Philbin's team. 
Now it was time for the Blue team, coached by millionaire alumnus Frank Eck, to show­case their offensive weapons. 
They sustained a 15-play, 93­yard drive late in the first half behind the powerful running of Bettis and Reggie Brooks. Bettis finished off the drive with a one-yard touchdown run and the Blue team carried a seven­point deficit and all the momentum into the locker room at halftime. 
They continued to grind it out on the ground in the second half. An 11-play, 73-yard drive culminated when safety Travis Davis made the mistake of try­ing to stop Bettis from crossing the goal line. Bettis gently de­posited Davis on his back and the game was tied at 14. 
"Not too many people are going to stop me at the goal line," Bettis said, as though ev­eryone-except maybe Davis-didn't know that already. 
Freshman split end Mike Miller, who left school after last season's loss at Michigan, then showed a glimpse of his blazing speed, streaking past the coverage to collect Rick Mirer's 39-yard scoring strike. 
Before the Gold defense knew what hit them, Mirer hooked up with Clint Johnson for a 14­yard touchdown pass. Miller hauled in Mirer's pass for the two-point conversion, giving the Blue a 28-14 lead. 
Holtz was pleased overall, but he acknowledged that his team has a lot of improving to do be­fore fall drills begin in August. 
"We have a long way to go, but we have a chance to be good if we make a lot of im­
,­

Monday, April 27, 1992 The Observer 
NCAA bid within reach after SMC tennis routs Wheaton 
By KILEY COBLE In the sixth spot, freshman Sports Writer Andrea Ayers beat Kim Rockner, 6-3, 6-2. 
The Saint Mary's tennis In doubles play, the number team's last home game of the one team of Mayer and season was a 9-0 shutout of Koscielski beat Rybka!Cowan, 
Wheaton College, 9-0, Saturday 6-2, 6-4. The second team com­afternoon at the Eck Pavilion. prised of Cosgrove and Ayers The Belles' record is now 11-7, downed Vermeer/Parrish, 6-1, and this loss leaves Wheaton 6-1, and the dynamic third duo with a 9-12 record. of Darby and McGinn topped Barclay and Jenny Wolff, 6-1, 
Number-one singles player 6-0. senior Ellen Mayer defeated opponent Juli Rybka for the "I was surprised. We had 
second year in a row, 7-5, 6-2, anticipated a tougher match," in a match that she described McGinn said. "Everybody as "it kept on going back and played great today." forth." The Saint Mary's tennis team 
In the number-two spot, ju­will be heading South today to 
nior Marie Koscielski downed visit DePauw and try to grab a Heather Cowan, 6-3, 6-3. shot at the nationals. Playing third, sophomore Mary Cosgrove topped Holly Parrish, The big powers in the region 
Lax 

6-2, 6-3. are Kalamazoo, Wheaton and 
"Our team is a lot more expe­Saint Mary's. The Belles have continued from page 20 rienced this year than when we beaten both of these other played Wheaton last year," said teams this year, and if Saint Cosgrove. Mary's is able to down DePauw, The tired Buckeyes mounted 
Junior Natalie Kloepfer held they will have a shot at the no significant comeback in the 
her own at fourth singles and Nationals. fourth, tallying only one goal came away victorious against They will find out their stance near the end of the game. her opponent Christy Vermeer, on May 3rd-their standing 6-1. 6-3. Fifth player Thayma depends on how other teams in The Irish defense drew high Darby defeated Angela Rybka, Division III play this coming acclaim from Corrigan after 
6-1, 6-1. week. holding the Bockeyes to only 30 

page 17 

shots on goal and had 78 groundballs to Ohio State's 60. 
"The defense is really covering the field well," said Corrigan. "They are quick to the balland pressuring well, and with the goalies making the big plays, that's the big difference in the games." 
Mayglothing also credited the crowd for the win. "The crowd was an incredible help. They played a really big 
part in. the win. I hope there is the same crowd for Michigan State on Friday," said Mayglothing. 
The date with the Spartans will decide the West region's NCAA bid. The winner captures the twelfth seed in the region. 
Note: Randy Colley scored his 65th point of the year breaking the school record set in 1982. 


Get fiOO _ -_ . . from HertZ F-enske TrUCk Rental. 
We'll give you up to $100 cash back when you rent a Hertz Penske truck. We've got everything you need to make your campus move easy-a modem, clean fleet. ..free unlimited mileage on one way moves... convenient coast-to-coast locations...afree moving guide...and all the accessories to get the job done. 
For reservations, check the Yellow Pages for the location nearest you, or ca111-800-222-0277. 

r------------. 
1 lllaving Campus?*liP to $JOO CASH BACK! 
Hertz _Pensk~ is offering up to a $100 rebate on ~ny one way move (rented in one city and returned to another). ·\ Effective Apnl 1, 1992. All coupons must be submitted by July 31, 1992. The amount of the rebate will be based on 10% of the time and mileage charges as listed on your truck rental agreement, up to a maximum of $100. 
I ~----------------------------------------­
~BS ____________________________________________
I 
Hertz
IJP_______ 
R8rrMA~HM9«1______________________________________
I PEMBKE 
RENTED IN----------------RETURNED TO ______________
I Truck Rental 
I 
Mail this coupon and a copy of your rental agreement to: 
HERTZ PENSKE TRUCK RENTAL • P.O. BOX 391 • ROUTE 10 GREEN HIUS 
MARIGOLD MARKET 
rf?tAN Al£M!foR YouR GRrouATION CEtEgRATION 

PARTY PlATTERs 
Hor<s D'ocuvRES 
B~oNcH ~ l!UNCHE:ON 

CONTACT OUR CATERING DEPARTMENT LAST MINUTE PART'< PLATIERS AVAILABLE 
I 
I 
page 18 The Observer 
Baseball continues to roll through MCC 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 

Thn 19th-ranknd Notre Dame baseball team (27 -12) travelled to Xavinr this weekend for a four-game Midwestern Collegiate Conference series and came away with three victories against the Musketeers. 
In a doubleheader on Sunday. the Irish swept both games thanks to strong pitching by Tom Price (4-1) and David Sinnes (6-1). In the first game, Xavier took the lead early with runs in the first and third in­nings off Price, who won his third straight game. 
Notre Dame caught up quickly, though, scoring in every remaining inning. The Irish ended a three-run Xavier rally in the bottom of the seventh to win 11-5. 
Joe Binkiewicz, Edwin Hartwell, and Cory Mee were hot at the plate with Binkiewicz and Hartwell hitting a home run and a double each, and Mee belting two doubles and a triple. 
The Irish rolled to a 9-1 victory in the second game of the day. raising Notre Dame's MCC conference record to 11-1. 
Sinnes, Pat Leahy, and Tim Kraus teamed up on the mound to hold the Musketeers to one run on six hits. while. a barrage of Irish hitters scored two runs in the first, three in the fourth, and four in the eighth. 
The two teams split Saturday's doubleheader, with the Irish losing the first, 1-0, despite a strong pitching effort from junior Chris Michalak, and rebounding to win the second game. The loss broke Notre Dame's 18-game MCC win streak spanning two seasons. 
Michalak (6-3) pitched a complete game of six innings and allowed only four hits and one run while striking out seven. However, Xavier starter 
"Bernie Cuervo (3-7) was equally effective, scattering four hits over seven innings of work. The Musketeers scored the game's only run in the first inning when designated hitter Ted Wroblewski sacrificed to bring lead-off hitter Scott Federle across the plate. The 

•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor o LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•Irish 
Guard informational meeting for anyone interested in trying out next year will be on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in LaFortune's TV lounge. Questions? Call 283-2449. 


•The "Dump your Plump" team from the Security Office, • "Safety Slugs," will lead the noon-time walk on Tuesday. The • campus walk will begin at 12:10 in front of Washington Hall. The 30 minute walk will be moderately paced and cover about 2 miles. 
NO DEPOSIT REQUIRED OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
6AM-.xoPM 
INSIDE · OUTSIDE STORAGE 
SELF LOCK STORAGE 
OF I2nl STREET 
24 HOUR SECURITY 
• FENCED • LOCKED • UGHTED 
ALL STORAGE CONTENTS ARE CONFIDENTIAL 
BUSINESS· COMMERCIAL fl PERSONAL NEEDS 
259·822I 
WEEK 
1753 E 12TH 

MONTHMISHAWAKA 
YEAR 

SOUTH VILLAGE PLAZA 
Irish threatened in the seventh after Hartwell doubled to open the seventh inning. 
DeSensi's grounder back to the mound caught Hartwell in a rundown, but the left fielder escaped to put runners at the corners. Bautch tried a squeeze bunt, but Cuervo picked it up and threw it to catcher John Dressman in time to get Hartwell. 
In the second game of the day, Notre Dame took an early five-run lead and held on to win 5-3. The Irish scored a run in the first when Paul Failla led off the game with a single and then scored on a wild pitch. 
The third inning was the big inning for Notre Dame with the Irish scoring three runs off four hits. 
Notre Dame starter AI Walania pitched another complete game to raise his overall record to 5-3. The junior allowed three runs on six hits in the nine-inning effort. Steve Horne (1-8) was the loser for Xavier, lasting only 2 1/3 innings, allowing four runs on six hits. 

Men's tennis clinches undefeated Midwest Region record 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
It may have been a rainy, overcast, and downright ugly weekend for the Notre Dame men's tennis team's final match of the regular season, but their forecast for the postseason says blue skies are ahead. 
After beating a scrappy Indiana squad 5-4 to ensure the first undefeated regional record for a Midwest team since the mid-80's, the ninth-ranked Irish have over two weeks to prepare for the NCAA's in Athens, Ga. 
This is Notre Dame's second-straight Region IV title, and it comes on the heels of a match that saw the Irish post four straight wins in singles before finally clinching the match with a win at first doubles. 
"Our top four carried us a lot, as they have for much of the year," said Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. "They deserve a lot of credit." 
The featured match was at second singles, where 65th-ranked Andy Zurcher faced Indiana's Chris Decker, the Hoosiers' only ranked player and a man that defeated Zurcher one year ago. 
But Zurcher made sure that history would not repeat itself by outgunning Decker, 6-3, in the deciding third set, after splitting the first two, 6-4, 4-6. 
It was an exciting and competitive match that had to be called by a referee after a few arguments on line calls, but the play of Zurcher was the story of the match. 
"He had some athletic and acrobatic gets," said Bayliss. "He played with spunk and spirit, as he frequently does." 
Number-one ranked David DiLucia registered his 18th-straight dual match win at one-singles by downing Nigel Russell, 6-4, 6-4. 
At three-singles, junior Chuck Coleman dominated Richard Holden, 6-0, 6-0, posting his second shutout win of the year against a good opponent. 
"Chuck's been playing terrific tennis," stated Bayliss. 
Will Forsyth beat David Held, 6-2. 6-4, for the Irish's fourth win, but from there it was a bumpier ride, as both Tom North and Ron Rosas lost the last two singles matches. 
From there, the tandem of Coleman and DiLucia, fourth-ranked in the nation, took control. After losing the first set to Russell and Mark Ableman, 6-2, they cruised to win the last two sets, 6-4, 6-3. 
This weekend's win brings the Irish to 20-3, with their only losses coming to 11th-ranked Florida and two top ten teams, TCU and North Carolina. The Irish could meet one of these teams in the upcoming NCAA tournament, but no matter who they meet, they will be ready. 
"We're going to condition and really get into shape in the next couple weeks," said Bayliss, "Just like we have been doing, but with a different goal." 
Please Join Us :for a Fireside Chat: "ftTit:h Bishop Emerson J. M_oore 
Topic: 
The Challenges ofLife in the Inner City for an African-American Bishop 
Tuesday, April 28, 1992 7:30-9:00p.m. 
Dooley Room at LaFortune Student Center (First Floor across from the Information Desk) 
• 
0MPUS 
-
MNISTRY 
Today 

Monday, April 27, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\.IE'/ MOM, C.\N I 
GEl SOME PLJ>..'STIC SIJRGER'I? All. 
11\E CELEISR\T\ES DO IT.' 
THE FAR SIDE 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

MENU 

Notre Dame 
Tortilla Soup 
Sirloin Steak Sandwich 
Sea Strips 
Pasta Primavera Mozzarella 
Saint Mary's 
Savory Baked Chicken 
Roast Beef 
Pea Pod and Mushroom Stir-fry 
1\oNt.'l, CELt.~RITit.S NEE.\) TilE ~AT S\JCI<.E\) GIJT OF 11-\t.IR 13RAII'l'S, NOT 11-\f\R 80\ThMS. 'N~P>-T 00 't:f>..RT\-1 00 'IOIJ WM-1"1 C\\1\1-lG~Q? '{O\l'R~ 
F\t-.1\; "WE WI\"
'{()\) "~! 
--...., 

GARY LARSON 
SPIN 
I'll. BE.T I 
E'{tl('( 1\ME 'IC\l

I'VE ~EEt-.1 S~N\1-\G 
0\ltN "'­

~'{ C~M{GE FOR 
st>.IJ\1'\G-S 
KNOW Wl-\'1 
t<\P-.~ ll, \l£.1=05\T, 

WEHS A.t{D WEU:.S, 
ll,CCOIJI'\T ?' 
'{0\J G\l'/S 
'10\J C.~\>1 11-\lt-11<.' 

~\\'{\) LOOK 1-\CW M\JC\\ 
·ol-\ Belt MO'ffitR.
PONT GIT 

l'\1£ GOT! GUESS 

W\-11\T ftv\ GOING TO IX) WIT\-\ II.' 
CAMPUS 
BILL WATTERSON 
JOHN MONKS 
BILL WATTERSON 
Monday 

7 p.m. Film, "Icicle Thief." Annenberg Auditorium. Admission $2. 
7:30 p.m. Poetry Reading, "Karl Marx in Hell-and other Poems." Max Westler, assistant professor, Saint Mary's College. South Reading Room 2M, Cushwa Leighton Library, Saint Mary's College. Admission free. 
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-22 
ACROSS 40 Horse 
43 Bible book 1 Relief from grief 44 Strong beer 7 Brought into being 45 Fuss 
(Biblical} 46 --square 12 Well-paid, easy job 47 Chicago airport 14 Entertainer Frankie 48 Up to now (2 wds.} 16 Concerning 49 Intertwine 
abstinence 51 Speculation in 17 Medium-sized sofa stocks 18 Egyptian dam 53 Add water 19 Nautical aid 54 Well-educated 21 Asner and McMahon 55 Capital of Senegal 22 College subject, 56 Figures in the red 
for short 23 Vessel of injection 
DOWN

fluid 24 Obstreperous child 1 Nap 25 Hit the -2 -street 26 Small glass bottle 3 "-, c•est main 27 Mont-4 Scow: Fr. 28 Russian news agency 5 Director's term 29 "Quiet!" 6 Dutch humanist 31 -acid 7 -metabolism 33-'s "Inferno" 8 At any time 
12 Put in a safe place 13 Get married 
secretly 15 "-pas?" 20 Crazy 23 Pyromaniacal crime 24 Mix 26-Major 27 Insipid 28 Mah-jongg pieces 30 Dostoevsky's 
.. The-" 
31 Spider, e.g. 32 Woman's veil 34 Finished second 35 "Como -usted?" 36 Flemish painter 39-reef 40 Free taxi ride 
(2 wds.} 41 Sayings 42 Stabbed 44 Very thin 45 Hauls 

34 Type of candy  9 Narrow ship channel  47 Prefix: eight  
36 Tie together  10 Changer  48 Drunkards  
37 Highway divisions  11 Ballet, e.g.  50  Diving bird  
38 Edible fish  (2 wds.}  52  Japanese statesman  

LECTURES Monday 

4:15p.m. "From Centrally Planned Economy to Free Market Economy: The Case of Hungary," Maria Broda, professor, 1992 Distinguished International Visiting Lecturer in accounting. Room 120 Hayes-Healy Center. 
7:30 p.m. Multi-Media Presentation, "Requiem for a City: The Bombing of Dresden, February, 1945," Dick Ringler, professor, University of Wisconsin, Madison. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Admission free. 
Tuesday 
12:15 
p.m. "Europe 1992 and the New Hungarian Business Environment," Maria Broda, professor. Room 121 Hayes­Healy Center. 

12:15 
p.m. "Symbols Aren't Simple: Why Language Should Not Have Evolved," Coevolution of Language and the Human Brain, Terrence Deacon, associate professor, Harvard University. Room 124 Haggar Hall. 


12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar,"Engagement and Adjustment: The Church and International Development on the Eve of the 21st Century," Louis Sabourin, guest scholar. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 

• 
-.. 

Sports 
Monday, April 27, 1992
page 20 
• 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
And now a word from .... 

Vitale spices up lacrosse action 
Those sports fans who took Notre Dame football announcer Mike Collins' advice, and stopped by the lacrosse game after Saturday's Blue-Gold game, saw the finest performance by the men's lacrosse team this season. 
It was complete domination by the Irish, controlling all phases of the game en route to a 12-6 victory over Ohio Statn. 
For those who weren't in attendance, not only did you miss the on-field action, but also the performance coming from the pressbox. ESPN college basketball broadcaster Dick Vitale made his lacrosse broadcasting dnbut in grand fashion. 
Coach Vitale, visiting his daughter Terri, a sophomore on the Notre Dame tennis team, took time out to thrill the crowd at Moose Krause Stadium and put thn icing on the top performance of the season by the Irish. 
Those who find themsnlves reaching for the rmnote nvnry time Vitale rears his balding head, probably would not have enjoy1HI Saturday's game-nor this column. It was vintage Vitale. 
Following scores from Brian Mayglothing and Mike Sullivan or outstanding plays, Vitale delivered some of his more colorful comments. I have inducted translations for the Vitalism impaired. 
• 
Mayglothing's the 3-D man: the drive, thn draw. and dish the rock (ball). 

• 
Mayglothing to Sullivan reminds me of another combination: Laettner to llurlny ... (and following the boos from the crowd) mayb11 I should have said Bmuwtt to Phonz. 

• 
We got some PTP'ers. (prime time players) 

• 
Collny, coming back from a serious injury, playing like a star. 

• 
Sullivan will bn a B.M.O.C., a Big Man on Campus tonight. Forget Hick Mirer. 

• 
Hyan .Jewell, doing the job in goal, a diaper dandy (talented freshman). 


Vitale's duties were not limited to reporting goals scores and penalties. At halftime, he read ofT the winners in the Teachers Credit Union rafl1e and gave rnports on Ohio State guard .Jim Jackson's status as a college player to curious Buckeye fans. 
Vitale is looked at in many ways by the broadcasting community and sports fans. Some label him one of sports greatest personalities, an entnrtainer. He is known as a walking encyelopedia on college basketball. 
Less favorabln reviews start with the terms like "loudmouth" and "idiot," and the most extreme usually begin with a four-lntter word and end with "head." 
Whatever your view may be, it can't be overlooked how he helped one of Notre Dame's under-appreciated sports shine for one day. 
Many of the people on hand came after 
see VITALE/ page 20 
INSIDE SPORTS 
• 
Baseball takes three of four at Xavier page 18 

• 
Men's tennis seals NCAA bid page 18 

• 
NBA playoffs roundup 


page 13 
Blue rallies to victory in spring game 
' tr· -~ MVP Bettis shines through gray skies 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 

Spring practice is make-or-break time for many Notre Dame football players. 
• McDougal asserts himself as top backup QB I page 16 

.. ··,··~ /; • Irish in NFL draft I page 16 
nlllll'il ' • Saturday's Blue-Gold game was one last chance for a host of untested players to prove themselves. 
Kevin McDougal stated his case for the backup quarterback slot, rushing for two touchdowns as the Gold team jumped out to an early lead. 
However, the Blue team, led by Jerome Bettis, was able to escape with a 28-22 win. Bettis cut through the wet and windy "spring" weather for 110 
., yards on 13 carries and scored two touchdowns to earn offensive MVP honors. 
Quarterback Rick Mirnr directed the Blue attack, completing 13-of-23 passes for 190 yards and two touchdowns, but the offense sputtered for much of the first half. 
It was the Gold team who provided the offensive fireworks in the early part
The Observer/John Bingham 
of the game. 

Jerome Bettis shows some nifty moves on the slippery turf during the Blue-Gold game. 
McDougal and Lee Becton led theBettis was named offensive MVP after rushing for 11 0 yards and scoring two touchdowns. 
see BLUE I page 16 
Lacrosse crushes Ohio State for ninth straight win 
scored six goals to the Buckeyes one. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan credited his team's poise for the turnaround in play from the first to second periods. 
"We definatly had opportunities, but maybe we were a little to fired up," added Corrigan. "We were doing things well fundamentally and just waited for things to fall into place. I didn't panic and neither did the kids. We scored a couple of goals and you could see us relaxing." 
Vitale repeated the names 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame lacrosse team didn't dissapoint the largest crowd at Moose Krause Stadium this season, topping Ohio St. 12-6 and creeping one step closer to an NCAA tounament bid. 
People from the Blue-Gold game, and fans of broadcaster Dick Vitale joined the lacrosse faithful in propeling the Irish to their ninth straight win. 
The crowd did not send Notre Dame off to the quick 
Bookstore champions crowned Sunday 
Gauchos round up men's title 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 

"It's a dream come true," said Rob Vazquez after the fi­nals of Bookstore Basketball. 
Yesterday, The Gauchos (sponsored by CJ's Pub) 
' 

cruised to a 21-11 win over Tequila White Lightning XI to win the 21st annual Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
The Gauchos jumped out to a 4-0 lead and never looked back. Gauchos spread the scoring around as Vazquez, Dave Bose and Mike Toner scored five points apiece, while Keith Tower chipped in four and Pete DiGiovanni added two. 
For Tequila, Eric Jones and Brian Ratigan each had three, M1ke MacKinnon and Brian Casey chipped in two apiece while Shannon Cullinan added one. 
The game was highlighted by tough defense by The Gauchos which resulted in six 
points off steals many of The Observer/Jake Peters 
h. h th ' f h -Tequila's Shannon Cullinan hustles to keep the ball inbounds in
1

w lC were e resu t 0 t e yesterday's Bookstore championships. For the second year in a of Mayglothing and Sullivan throughout the period, as the duo combined for two goals and three assists during the period. 
With the halftime score reading 7-4, Notre Dame camP out firing. Four goals and fifteen minutes later the Irish held a eommanding 11­5 lead enterning the final quarter. Sullivan had three assists and secored his third goal of the game during the third, and attacker Handy Colley registered two goals. 
see LAX I page 17 start expected, as they fell behind 3-0 before Mike Sullivan's goal with a little over a minute to play broke the ice. 
"We started ofi a little slow, we played about three and half good quarters," commented mifielder Brian Mayglothing. 
The second quarter set the trend the game would follow the rest of the way, with Notre Dame doubling the Buckeyes production on both the offensive and defensive end. In the quarter the Irish outshot Ohio St. 19-8 and 

Nelligan leads Rattle to victory 
By ANDREW ILIFF 
Sports Writer 

Good basketball starts with tough defense, and in Sunday afternoon's women's Bookstore finals, Hattie and Hummus used a tenacious 2-3 zone to stop Ring My Belle I, 21-16. 
Rattle and Hummus, lead by varsity player Margaret Nowlin and former walk-on Maureen Nelligan, kept Hing off the boards and out of the middle with their tough zone . 
Nowlin led the inside pres­sure, keeping the ball out of the post, and point guard Marianne Haggerty took the outside pressure past the top of the key, making it tough on the Hing guards to start its of­fense. 
Rattle started the game out solid, attacking Ring's man-to­man defense and scrapping for offensive boards. Hattie looked early to their big scorers, Nowlin on the inside and Nelligan from the outside. 
Despite Rattle's hot shooting, though, Ring stayed close, using good one-on-one 
see GAUCHOS 1page 14 row, Tequila fell in the title game, this time to The Gauchos, 21-11. see RATTLE I page 14 









