
-~--~------~--­
eObserver 
Saint Ma~s College 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 


VOL. XXIV NO. 114 FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



Holtz stresses positive attitude, self-image in speech 
By TONY POPANZ In his speech titled, "Trust, the bottom of the top. My atti­venting many people from hav­returns with two stallions. His News Writer Love, and Commitment," Holtz tude and the attitude of the ing a good attitude. According two sons are later bucked off said that attitude is the most football team is that Notre to Holtz, adversity has been the stallions and both receive Head Football Coach Lou important attribute, with impli­Dame has only one standard, commonplace in his life. "I've broken legs. A draft the next Holtz shared his success-invok­cations on decision-making. and that is to be the best," Holtz been at the top, and at the bot­day calls all able-bodied men to ing philosophy with Notre Dame Holtz centered on a winner's explained. tom, and will be both places fight; thus, his sons are ineligi­students in a speech Thursday. attitude, which drives one to do "Don't allow yourself to be again," he explained. ble." With good faith, all adver­
"I am here to help you if I the best possible. average when you are capable Holtz has realized that, "You sity in life eventually works it­possibly can. I am not smart, I "We (the team and I) win of doing better," he continued. can't tell what's good or bad. self out, Holtz said. am no authority, but I do have a since we decide not to be aver­Holtz pointed out that adver­Consider this example: a man's To all young people, Holtz great attitude," Holtz began. age-the top of the bottom, or sity is the central factor pre-horse runs away, and she later see HOLTZ I page 4 
Carter speech site moved 
Special to The Observer 
Former President Jimmy Carter's March 23 lecture at Notre Dame has been moved to Stepan Cent~r because of antic­ipated attendance. 
The presentation to Carter and his wife, Rosalynn Carter, of the inaugural Notre Dame Award for humanitarian service was originally scheduled for the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. The time of the presentation and lecture Jimmy Carter remains 7 p.m. 

Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute Both Carters hold honorary for International Studies. 

degrees from Notre Dame. 
University President Father As president, Carter delivered Edward Malloy will present the the commencement address in Carters with a custom-design1977, a prophetic speech con­

piece of Steuben crystal em­troversial at the time for its blematic of the interfaith and 

muting of anti-communism as 
international award comple­

the driving force in American 
menting the University's

foreign policy. 
Laetare Medal for Distinguished 

Mrs. Carter received her 
American Catholics. 

LL.D. a decade later. In 1979, The Notre Dame Award re­
she joined Father Theodore 
flects the themes for the Uni­
The Observer/ Kristina Roderick 

Hesburgh, University president­versity's Sesquicentennial -in­
Kindergarten flashbacks 
emeritus, in a successful effort quiry, belief and community.
to avert mass starvation in 
Kellie Abbott and Liz Nichol finger-paint at the Pasquerilla East pre-SYR party. Students often invent
The event is open to the pub­Cambodia, and she has been 

creative ways to have fun at these dances. 
lic. 

serving on the advisory body for 



Hidden side of the golden dome 
This beautiful mural found inside the NO Administration Building was painted by Luigi Gregori. 


Tsongas gives up his presidential bid 
BOSTON (AP) -A frustrated, debt-laden Paul Tsongas pulled out of the Democratic presiden­tial race on Thursday, narrow­ing the field to two and leaving Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton as the clear favorite to capture the nomination. 
The unexpected announce­ment sent shock waves through party circles and stunned Clin­ton, who said he thought the three-way race "would be going on much longer." 
Clinton's sole remaining op­ponent is former California Gov. Jerry Brown, who is running an outsider's campaign against the corrupting influence of special interest money on politics. Brown promised a head-to­head battle with Clinton "for the soul of the Democratic Party." 
Tsongas blamed his cam­paign's downfall on a shortage of cash for expensive primaries coming up in New York and elsewhere and said he did not want to remain in the race in the "role of spoiler." 
"That is not what I'm about; that is not worthy," said Tsongas, a cancer survivor. "I did not survive my ordeals in order to be the agent of the re­~~etifHl of Gfqrge Bush." 
Party Chairman Ronald Brown said that with Tsongas' departure, "there are a lot of people making the case that Bill Clinton has an insurmountable lead. The question is if Gov. Brown reaches that same con­clusion, does he want to carry on the campaign." 
Brown said he was not calling on Brown to quit but would do so if Clinton won Connecticut, New York, Kansas and Wiscon­sin -the contests between now and April 7. 
Tsongas' withdrawal "makes Clinton the nominee, basically, today," said Democratic con­sultant Victor Kamber. "The party is now going to try to co­alesce around Clinton as quickly as possible." 
"He is, barring something to­tally new and unexpected, the nominee," said Ann Lewis, an­other Democratic consultant. 
Tsongas, 51, said he left the race "deeply fulfilled. The obli­gation of my survival has been met." 
He said his campaign was too broke to compete in New York, which votes April 7, and that his commitment to the Demo­cratic Party was too strong for him to stay in the race at less than full speed. 
"To go into New York, de­fenseless in terms of financial resources, would have meant that we could not compete ... The message would have been so damaged, that all we had endured for would have been hurt," he said. 
see TSONGAS/ page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
DART courses that should be offered 
In the next month.------­

students will be selecting what they want to study next semester, with the friendly aid of DART (Direct Access to Huining Transcripts). 
Students will be able to select from everything from Hydrodynamic
Stability (AERO 604) to the 
American Peace Movement Since WWI (HIST 
474), but there are some things that students 
should know that are glaringly absent from 
the DART book. 
Here are but a few examples: 
SOC 500: Trends in Regional Speech. Learn 

all about the great 'pop' vs. 'soda' 
controversy, its roots and its future. 
Prerequisite: One 12-pack of Dr. Pepper. 
MLVT 111: Translating Dick Vitale. After this course, students will understand America's favorite sportscaster when he calls Jim Jackson "a real PTPer, a Prime Time Player." Prerequisites: Access to ESPN and high tolerance for obnoxious ranting and raving about "shooting the rock." 
CHEM 800: Elements of Ethanol. Students will finally learn what the mysterious sub­stance is, and what efl'ects it may have on the average human's brain. Prerequisites: Organic Chemistry, and a very strong stom­ach. 
GOVT 113: Basics of Bureaucratic Waste. Students will learn the latest techniques in needlessly spending other people's money. Prerequisites: Membership in Student Government. 
GOVT 499.9: Advanced Bureaucratic Waste. This course is for hard-core waste fans only. Prerequisites: GOVT 113, or membership in SUB. 
TIIEO 666: Understanding Christian Gay­Bashing. This course will use teach students how to use obscure Bible passages out of context to defend the Church's (and the University's) homophobia. Prerequisite: A frontal lobotomy. 
ACCT 101: Balancing a Congressional Checkbook. This course in the basics of per­sonal finance is apparently much more diffi­cult than it looks, since so many of last year's participants failed. Prerequisites: Ability to add and subtract or a diploma from the University of Miami. 
ENGL 200D: Access to English Literature Courses. Students will learn how to cope with the major that refuses to adapt to DART like everyone else. Prerequisites: A sleeping bag, and about three days of free time. 
CHEG 300: Making a Better Yo-Cream Flavor. This title is pretty self-explanatory. Prerequisite: A ND meal plan. 
And, finally, the one course everyone should take to understand why ND is run the way it is: 
BS 992: University Administration. Learn how to keep students in the dark on every­thing from residence halls to sick theology professors. Prerequisite: Permission required from the Board of Trustees. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Paul Pearson 
Associate News 
Editor 
__..........,_..___ 

Friday, March 20, 1992 
FDR!CAIT:  
=:=:::;:::;::.:=:;?!  Cloudy and colder  
today with highs in  
the upper 30s.  
Partly sunny and  
cold Saturday with  
highs in the upper  
30s.  
TEMPERATURES:  
City  H  l  
Albuquerque  62  29  
Atlanta  76  56  
Austin  71  56  
Baton Rouge  76  57  
Bismarck  50  25  
Boise  61  29  
Boston  33  29  
Columbia, S.C.  77  58  
Columbus  39  33  
Denver  47  31  
Des Moines  48  28  
Havana  73  51  
Helena  52  30  
Honolulu  78  69  
Indianapolis  43  41  
Jackson  70  51  
Juneau  44  36  
Lincoln  44  35  
Madison  38  33  
Mpls-St. Paul  43  19  
Nashville  58  39  
Sacramento  66  43  
Salt Lake City  54  36  
Tallahassee  66  54  
PrBISSUre  Topeka  45  33  
H  L  m  ~  f:x:1  8  i)  ~  ~  South Bend Vienna  36 46  26 39  
SHOWERS  RAIN  T.STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  Washington, D.C.  40  35  
.,::::::·  .:;:;: :=·:::::::::.  .-:-.:::;.::···:··  . :·:=·  




TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Royal marriage is on the rocks 

•LONDON-Buckingham Palace confirmed what royalty watchers have speculated all week: the Duchess of York wants to split from Prince Andrew after five years of marriage. But the palace statement did not reflect reports of deep anger at the impending breakup of another royal family. The statement -issued on the 6th anniversary of Andrew's announcement of the couple's engagement -said lawyers for the duchess, the former Sarah Ferguson, initiated talks last week about a separation. British Broadcasting Corp. reported unprecedented expressions of anger within the palace at the duchess who was accused of feeding a newspaper frenzy over the story this week. 
OF INTEREST 

•French 
and Spanish placement exams for next semester will take place Monday and Tuesday. Students must sign up for the exam in the Language Resource Cen­ter office (2nd floor of O'Shaughnessy) by 5 p.m. today. 

•Notre 
Dame Glee Club will hold its spring concert at 8 


p.m. tonight at Washington Hall. Mark Ring will be conducting. 
•Lulac 
will hold its final mixer of the year tonight at Theodore's from 10 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. 

•Volunteering 
with L'Arche (USA-Internat'l) will be explored with Joe Vorstermans (L'Arche-Daybreak in Toronto), director of human resources; Martin O'Malley (L'Arche-Mobile), director of Central US. Region of L'Arche; and present assistants, including two ND alum­nae at Daybreak, at CSC from 1-1:45 p.m. on Saturday. 

•Henri 
Nouwen and L'Arche Companions along with Emmaus, a community with the mentally handicapped, will participate in an afternoon reflection and prayer on "listening to God's call in a Noisy World: Discipleship and the Spiritual Life" from 2-5:30 p.m. Saturday at the Cen­ter for Social Concerns. A supper and farewell celebra­tion will follow, also at the CSC. Reservations required. For more info, call 239-5293 

•sesquicentennial 
Student Week -day 4: Come see Notre Dame's Best Campus Bands compete Saturday in 


CAMPUS Retreat is planned for Saturday 
•NOTRE DAME-Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA) is sponsoring a day-long reflection and lenten retreat tomorrow in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center starting at 10:30 a.m., according to Heriberto Lopez Alberola. president. The reflection, which was coordinated by Frank Cantero, president-elect, will encourage students to take a moral inventory of the challenges and opportunities Cubans face in assisting in an ethical reconstruction of their country. The day will be directed by Father Carlos Rozas, chaplain. 
NAZZ '92-The Campus Battle of the Bands at Stepan Center from 6 p.m. to midnight. 
•Notre 
Dame Porn Pon Squad tryouts will begin Sunday in the pit of the JACC from 1-4 p.m. Questions, call Maria at 284-5469 or Natalie at 284-5183. 

•Take 
Back the Night March will occur this Sunday as the beginning of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. The march will begin at 7 p.m. at the LeMans Main Circle (SMC) and will process to the grotto and Fieldhouse Mall. This empowering event is for men and women, as an at­tempt to "take back" some of the unsafe places on cam­pus. 

•The 
Notre Dame Air Force Arnold Air Society is sponsoring a "Battery Drive" for their environmental ser­vice project. Old batteries will be collected in specially marked boxes at the front entrance of each dorm and the collection will begin on March 24. 


IIJunior class council applications are available to all sophomores for the 1992-93 school year. Pick up ap­plications from your dorm rector. They must be submit­ted by Friday, March 27. 
•visions #7 is now accepting stories for possible publication. All entries must be typed, submitted in tripli­cate with name and address on removable front cover sheet. Please submit by 4 p.m. on Thursday, April 2 to the English dept., 356 O'Shag. 
Friday's Staff: 

Production: 
Etc.:

Peggy Crooks 
Jahnelle Harrigan 

Bryan Nowicki 
Chrissy Prask

News: 
Viewpoint:

Paul Pearson 
Jay Colucci 

Julie Barrett 
Systems:

Alicia Reale 
Harry Zembillas 

Bevin Kovalik 
Lab Tech: 

Sports: 
Macy Hueckel 

Jason Kelly 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/March 19 

VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX ~ 197,284,700 226.25 'lT 0.31 S&P COMPOSITE 409.80 .. 0.65 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3261.40 .. 7.15 

PRECIOUS METALS 

oow.oft $ 0.30 to $339.10/oz. 
SILVER.. 9.1¢ to $4.121/oz. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1900: Secretary of State John Hay announced that European powers agreed to keep China's doors open to trade. 

• 
In 1920: Bolsheviks attacked Finland on a 1 ,500-mile-long front. 

• 
In 1931: The U.S. Federal Council of Churches approves limited birth control. 

• 
In 1953: Nikita Krushchev took over as secretary of the Soviet Union's Communist Party. 

• 
In 1971 : Irish Premier James Clark resigned under pressure from Protestants. 

• 
In 1987: The U.S. approved AZT. 


The Observer 

Friday, March 20, 1992 page 3 
NO to host world conference 
featuring Robert McNamara
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
Sharon Zint, a senior, was one of college students organizations nnron .. ,•n Indiana Colttu;&.ct 
(ICC) for 
Drink and dance and laugh and lie, love, the reeling midnight through, lor tomorrow we shall die! (But ALAS, we never do.) 

·Dorothy Parker 
Happy 21st 

CARA!! 

Love and hugs, r our family and friends. 
STUDENT SEASON PASSES 
By COLLEEN KNIGHT News Writer 
Twenty-three experts on in­ternational policy, including Robert McNamara, former Sec­retary of Defense, and Georgi Shaknazarov, advisor to former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, will gather here this weekend for a conference on "Shaping the New World Order." 
The conference will focus on different issues related to the world order and is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for Inter­national Peace Studies. 
According to organizer Robert Johansen, similar conferences have been held at various international locations, in­cluding Moscow. 
One of the conference ses­sions featuring a panel discus­sion with Johansen, McNamara and Shaknazarov will be open to the public. This session, ti­tled "What Vision of World Order is Desirable and Possi­ble?," will be held tonight at 
7:30 in the auditorium of the 

.-.:>o.oo.or::.OC..::.O.MrOJ.:.OO.:~~IOI:.OI()(~~IOI:.OI()(~O(llr..
-w 
J. Mac.­

In the house and 21! 
Happy B-Day 

from the guys. 
llAM-lOPM 
Hesburgh Center for Interna­tional Studies. 
According to Johansen, secu­rity questions will be discussed at this weekend's conference along with the issue of interde­pendency among different na­tions. These discussions will focus on military, economic and environmental concerns. 
In addition, the peacekeeping and peacemaking roles of the United Nations will be exam­ined by conference participants. They will discuss "new applica­tions of peacekeeping in Croa­tia, Serbia, Cambodia, as well as the need for peacekeeping in other places of ethnic unrest, " Johansen said. 
A major topic of the confer­ence will be how the ideas of national sovereignty are changing. 
"It is hard for one nation to solve global problems itself," Johansen said, "and it is also unworkable because of major environmental problems and economic dependencies." 
Finally, Johansen said that the conference will focus on 
how individual citizens, non­
government officials and mem­bers of church and human­rights groups can get involved in "Shaping the New World Order." 
This weekend's conference results from a "collaborative research effort that has been going on for several years, " he said. The participants hope to develop public policy recom­mendations for the new world order, according to Johansen. 
It was not difficult to gather the international policy experts together for this weekend, Jo­hansen added, because "the participants don't want to miss out on this conference. They are strongly committed to this work, and that makes the dif­ference." 
Carry out or Dine in 
52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 

ON SALE NOW GOLF PRO SHOP ROCKNE MEMORIAL BUILDING SPRING $50.00 SUMMER $75.00 FALL$50.00 CALL 239-6425 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION HOURS 6:30AM-4:00PM. 7 DAYS A WEEK  WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? A workshop'for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. SUNDAY. MARCH 29. 1992 12:30 -5:00 TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY MARCH 25. Applications can be picked up at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse. Call 239-5242 for more information  

The Observer 

page 4 
Holtz 
continued from page 1 
said that the best advice he could give would be to "establish priorities in life. Don't be a spectator in life. De­cide what you want to do. You have a cause; fight for it, follow it, and believe in it." 
One must wake up every morning with some purpose or goal in mind, he said. "You show me one who has no moti­vation to do things, I'll show you someone with no goals." 
To accomplish one's goals to the greatest extent possible, one must have a good self-im­age, according to Holtz. lie said that to have a good self-image means to do three things: do right, do your best, and abide by the Golden Rule. 
He sees a problem with those who have a world of ability and never realize it. "You must be­lieve in yourself," Holtz ex­plained. However, to those who have a wealth of self-image and abominable egos, he said, "God made you, so be humble." 
The greatest problem, ac­cording to Holtz, is the author­ity figure with low self-esteem. Such people, he said, do not work for their inferiors' best interests. 
"What has happened is that people in authority-parents, teachers, employers and coaches-worry more about be­ing accepted by those for whom 


Tsongas 
continued from page 1 
Tsongas congratulated both Clinton and Brown, and said he was looking forward to helping elect a Democratic president. 
Brown. who has won pockets of support by playing to voter frustration. especially in de­pressed areas, has waged a low-cost outsiders' campaign, refusing to accept campaign contributions of more than $100 and railing against the corrupting influence of money anymore." 
"But we fight on," he said. "I don't have the votes yet and there are a lot of important states coming up and the last thing I want these good people to think is that I'm taking them for granted." 
In the delegate race, Clinton has gathered 962, Tsongas 430, and Brown 129. Tsongas said he would not endorse Brown or Clinton and that he has no immediate plans for the future. 
In the Bush camp, aides said the apparent solidification of Clinton as the party nominee did not affect Bush's plan to they are responsible than how they do their job," Holtz ex­plained. 

Concluding his discussion of self-image, Holtz smiled, and said, "If you don't remember the wrong things, you're doing pretty well. You correct, forget and move on." 
In speaking to groups, a task he frequently undertakes, Holtz hopes that he can impart sev­eral ideas. This, in itself, makes it all worthwhile, Holtz said. 
"It's very easy for me to speak," he said. "I enjoy talk­ing of my personal experiences and getting them (my listeners) to identify with me. If I can share with and help someone, I'll do it. I keep in mind that many people have helped me." 
Nov. 3 and whoever the Democrats give us we'll run against them and beat them," said White House spokesman Gary Foster. 
Privately, Bush aides antici­pated increased attention to areas where Bush can be com­pared to Clinton, such as for­eign policy. They acknowledged that Clinton's campaign team is tough and disciplined, and that the race would be hard-fought. 
Tsongas, who jumped into the race last April, exceeded initial expectations for his long-shot campaign by claiming victory in five primaries and two cau­


focus on his presidential mes­cuses. But Clinton trounced him on politics. 

Clinton said Tsongas' decision sage and to cut back his politi­in the South and then won key meant "my strongest opponent 
cal travel. contests in Illinois and Michi­is not going to be there 
"We've only set our sights on gan. 

ADDITIONAL SuMMER ScHooL CouRSE 
CreativeWriting Fiction 
ENGL 301W:01 1:30-2:30 MTWTF
~~,, 

1 W. O'RouRKE 1 (l<-4ss'v " Mich1ana s source for 
~ Aworkshop devoted to the short-and
quality recordings including COs, cassettes, videos and shorter-forms of fiction writing. There will be laser discs of difficult-to -find assignments early on to produce aflow ofwork; classical, folk, new age, jazz, nostalgia, 
then one longer story and its re\Vrite will be
rock and pop music. 
Let Critics' Cfwice do the 

required. Ananthologyofshortfictionwillbeused.
work for you! Order by phone and we ship DART CALL #0613
directly to you. 
19 272-4652 
Guatemalan Imports 

Pre-Law Society Meeting 
-New shipment from Guatemala 

WGu0w~ March 23, 7 pm 
-Bargain corner -Silk clothing from india 

WGu0~~ Cushing Auditorium 
-Raffie for chance to win $60 in merchandise 

~YJGu'f]~ To prepare juniors for the application process to law school 
(Proceeds go to 

Dean Waddick, Dean Mclean of the Law School 
Cooperative/Clinic in Metzecal, Guatemala) 

and Professor Susan Vance of St. Mary's will be speaking 
Rm 108 Lafortune Mon-Sat March 23-28 

IMPORTANT MEETING FOR SENIORS-TO-BE 
10-5 pm 



The Observer/ Kristina Roderick 

Help your neighbor 
Father Michael Himes speaks on "Servicing Others," a lecture yesterday sponsored by the Sophomore Class Council. 
They're not just for hippi anyDlore. 
Bi•helldo«k·f 
~HICCENTER
{!fE~R~~OE REPAIR M-F 8-5:30 Sat 8-4 18121 State Route 23 (219) 273-2124 



-;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil.iliiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
Happy 19th Birthday Katie! Qa}i"py 21.'st ..·.·.. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE SUMMER SCHOOL SESSION 1992 DEPARTMENTS OF EDUCATION 
The Department ol Education at Saint Mary's College will oiler a summer session with the following courses from May 18, 1992 through Junes, 1992. Education 215HP Health and Physical Education in the Elementary Classroom Education 399 Children's Literature Experiences in the Whole Language Classroom Education 404 Reading in the Content Area Education 417 Computer Assisted Instruction 

students will not be offered. 

Maximum course load Is six (6) credit hours. Tuition ior the summer session will be a175.00 per credit hour. Financial aid Is not available ior the summer session. 
Rolling registration will be held on a continuing basis until Friday Marc:h Z7, 199Z. Final retastratlon Is March )0, 1992, In 3Z1 Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's College irom 8:30 a.m. • IZ:oo noon and irom 
1:30 p.m. • 4:oo p.m. Final registration must be ac:c:ompanled by payments of hali the tuition c:ost plus $50.00 ior a housing deposit. Housing appllc:atlons will be available at registration. Complete housing applications must be returned no later that AprU IS, I99Z. Housing appllc:atlons should be returned to 3Z1 Madeleva Hall. 
The Observer 
pageS 

Friends remember Beeler, Hipp 
By CARA ECKMAN 
News Writer 
Memories of freshman, Colleen Hipp, will be visibly present today in Sacred Heart Basilica where colorful re­membrances appear on the 117 squares of the memorial quilt created by residents of Lewis Hall. 
The quilt will be displayed in Sacred Heart during the memorial mass for Hipp, which will be held at 5 p.m. today. Father Edward Malloy will preside at the mass, and Father Terry Coonan, a regular presider at Lewis Hall masses, will deliver the homily. 
According to Lewis rector, Katherine Sullivan, "One of the best things is how much people have contributed to the mass. There will probably be about 30 students involved in the mass itself." 

THE THOMAS J. WHITE CENTER ON LAW AND GOVERNMENT 
PRESENTS 
STEPHEN CARTER CROMWELL PROFESSOR OF LAW VALE UNIVERSITY 
AND AUTHOR OF REFLECTIONS OF AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION BABY 
ON 
"GOD, TRUTH, AND OATHS" 
MONDAY, MARCH 23 
12:00 NOON 
ROOM 220-LAW SCHOOL COURTROOM 
The Hipp family is visiting the Notre Dame campus this weekend and will be present at the mass. Later this weekend, the quilt will be given to the family. 
The creation of the quilt be­gan immediately after the January 24 women's swim team bus accident claimed the lives of Lewis freshman Colleen Hipp and Walsh freshman Meghan Beeler. Using paint pens, Lewis residents decorated fabric squares with images and words representing their memories of Hipp. 
"One of the squares says, 'this is our scrapbook to you, Colleen,' and I believe that's true," Sullivan said. She said the quilt "says so much about who Colleen was and who we are as a hall." 
According to Sullivan, working on the quilt enabled Lewis residents to cope with 
feelings of helplessness and 
loss. "There were so many 
people who wanted to reach out 
and help," she said, explaining 
that the quilt provided a 
concrete way for the residents 
to offer their assistance. 
The quilt represents one of 
the many memorial efforts 
which have taken place since 
the accident. 
Earlier this month, Walsh Hall 
presented the first Meghan 
Beeler Spirit Award which will 
be given annually to the Walsh 
freshman who, like Beeler, 
"personifies great spirit, vitality, 
and devotion," said Walsh 
rector Sister Josef Riordan. 
Walsh also provided its residents an opportunity to express their memories of Beeler. "We hung huge paper banners on the wall near [Beeler's] room," Riordan said. Personal messages, poems, and other remembrances covered two and a half banners, which were later given to the Beeler family. 
Riordan commented on the 
Walsh banners and the Lewis 
quilt, "I think they are both just 
beautiful tributes to two 
beautiful women." 

Future memorial efforts will include planting one tree in front of Lewis and Walsh in memory of Hipp and Beeler. The plantings are scheduled to take place in April, though no date can be set until the trees are received. 
Each tree will be accompa­nied by a plaque which will bear the name of the resident, as well as "a quote which each dorm thinks is appropriate," 
said Walsh H a II President 
:~:~~:o:;~;:~~he~e~u:~: 
the remainder was paid by Lewis and Walsh, who received financial assistance from Kristie Shafer, the District II student senator. "I used my budget and gave $125 to each dorm. I knew it was hard for [the dorms] and I wanted to do something for the girls," Shafer said. 
Smoking Stinks­Don't Do lt!H!HH!!!!!!! 


Friday, March 20, 1992

pa e 6 




Alumni Hall will wake her dead, We will sing their requiem. 
On March 21, 1992, The Center of the Universe will celebrate its 60th Anniversary. 
INVITATION ONLY 

The Observer/ Jon Novak 

Basking in the sun 
Some ducks inhabiting St. Mary's Lake take advantage of the spring weather and the gorgeous sunshine. 
The Observer 
page 7 

Peacefest comes to ND next week 
By CHRIS HANIFIN 
News Writer 
Next week, a flurry of activities ranging from a concert to several lectures will mark the coming of Peacefest '92 to the Notre Dame campus. 
The events are being sponsored by the World Peace Action Group (WPAG), a student organization started last year at Notre Dame. 
"The purpose of Peacefest '92 is essentially the same as the mission of our group," said WPAG co-president Marcie Poorman. "We want to cooperate with a variety of other organizations to raise student consciousness and educate the campus about peace." 
On Sunday from noon to 4 p.m., Greenpeace representative Mike Aflek will conduct a workshop on nonviolence training in the Knott Hall lounge. At 7 p.m., a "Take Back the Night" candlelight procession will march from LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's College to O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Tuesday marks the 12th anniversary of the martyrdom of Salvadoran Archbishop Oscar Romero. A Mass in his honor will be held in the chapel of Alumni Hall and Father Robert Pelton, former director of Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry (I.P.S.M.), will preside. The guest homilist, Sister Kathleen Cannon, currently serves as director of the I.P.S.M. 
At 8 p.m., Edward Brett, associate professor of history at La Roche College in Pittsburgh, will deliver a lecture titled "The Pastoral Role of the Catholic Church in Latin America." The lecture is co-sponsored by the 
I.P.S.M. and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and will take place in the Center for Social Concerns. 
On Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns, Stephen Moriarty will present a slide show on "Life in El Salvador." Moriarty, an assistant professor in the Arts and Letters Core Course, is a freelance photographer and has frequently travelled to Central America. 
At 7 p.m. on Wednesday, several bands will converge on the Stepan Center to give a benefit concert titled "Give Peace a Dance." The Chicago­based Drovers, featured in the motion picture "Backdraft," will perform along with local bands including Seamaisin, the Generics, Jasmine Grove and Victoria's Real Secret. 
Proceeds raised from the $5 admission charge will be donated to Safe Station Shelter, a care shelter for troubled youth, and to Sex Offense Services, a program for victims of sexual assault. 
On Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., a hospitality luncheon will be held in the Center for Social Concerns. Admission is $3, with proceeds going to Holy Family Catholic Worker House, a facility which aids homeless women and families. 
At 8 p.m., a panel discussion, titled "What Can Students Do for Peace and Justice at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's?, " will be held with representatives from Pax Christi, Amnesty International ND, Women United for Peace and Justice, Students for Environmental Action and the World Hunger Coalition. 
Peacefest '92 will conclude on Friday at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium with a panel discussion on "The Impact of the Press on the Gulf War." Among the speakers will 
be Jack Powers, associate professor of American studies and a former editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
For more information about Peacefest '92 contact WPAG Co­President Marcie Poorman at 271-8571. 
Dow Corning exits implant business 
NEW YORK (AP) -Dow Corning Corp., the leading maker of silicone-gel breast implants, is reportedly getting out of the troubled business for good. 
The company stopped making and selling the implants on Jan. 6 after the Food and Drug Administration asked for a moratorium because of health concerns, but it didn't an­nounce whether it would exit the market permanently. 
Dow Corning Chairman Keith McKennon was scheduled to hold a news conference in Washington today. 
A company spokesman wouldn't comment on the newspaper and broadcast re­ports, which also said Dow Corning would set aside $10 million for research into the health effects of devices already implanted in an estimated 1 million American women. 

CNN, NBC and The New York Times said Dow Corning will in some instances pay women who want their implants removed but can't afford the operation. The Times reported today that Dow Corning agreed to offer women $1,200 toward such operations. 
Dow Corning previously re­quired women to agree not to sue the company in exchange for the financial help. But The Times, citing unidentified sources, said Dow Corning would drop that requirement. 
Critics say leaking implants cause cancer and other im­mune-system diseases, but a link has not been proved. 
Dow Corning, which has $250 million in liability insurance, faces hundreds of million of dollars in lawsuits filed by women who blame the implants for various health problems. 


cearance. 
ust 



one v.~; ba.<;cd on round-tdl" puxcilase ro Lcmdvn. 


Attentions shoppers. During our incredible spring sale, you can see the best of Britain for the best of prices-just $224* one way, based on round-trip purchase to London. Simply purchase your ticket by March 31, for travel Monday through Thursday commencing April 1 through June 14, 1992, and September 1 through September 30, 1992. And, if you're looking ahead this summer, you will find plenty of summer bargain affairs also. Of course, you'll receive the complementary headsets, free drinks, classic cuisine, and exceptional service that British Airways is famous for. So call your travel agent or British Airways at 1-Soo-AIRWAYS today. But don't delay. After all, if you're shopping for bargains this spring, wouldn't you rather do it in London? 
*Fare does not inc:lude $18 agricultural, customs and immigration fees, and international departure tax. 
BRITISH AIRWAYS 11leworldS favourite airline.• 7 

TERMS 13 CONDITIONS: Fare Basis VOXABES. Fare required round trip purc:hase. Applic:able ior travel c:ommenc:ing 4·1-'l:Z through b-11-41% and 9-1-'1% through 9·'10-41% only. Travel b-1S-41Z through 8-)1-41% slightly higher. Travel murt be c:ompleted by 1C>-JQ-'1:Z. Minimum rtay: 7 days; Maximum stay: JO days or return by 10-30--92, whichever occurs first. Travel permitted Monday through Thursday, travel permitted other days oi the week at additional charge. Travel permitted benNeen Det~oit and London on British Airways services only. Stop overs are permitted. Reservations and ticket issue must be completed at least 14 days prior to departure or before :Jp)l--9%, whichever occurs iirst. Outbound reservations may not be changed, return reservdtions rnay be changed ior a iee oi Stoo. Fare is nonpreiundable once tickets are issued. Fare may be combined "With preseason sale on B.A. land packag:es. Unless speci[icaiJy permitted in written promotional material issued by British Airways, this promotion may not be combined with any other iare or special promotional offer, past. present, or iuture. Frequent Flyer mileage aW'ards may not be redeemed in conjunction with this program. Children, Privileged Traveler and other discounts not permitted. This [are may not be available on all itights, and may not be available when you call. Fares are subject to change without notice and are subject to Government Approvals. 

.. --­
----------------------------------~--------------------~------------------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, March 20, 1992 
Ihe_Q.bse.~~er
-~ ------=-·~ 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabo r Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters. is encouraged. 


Americans misinformed on Arab-Israeli conflict 
Dear Editor: school when the Palestinian Working with Palestinians in the Palestinians of their land, face of the Palestinian and I 
First, I would like to commend Uprising began in December of Egypt and visiting them in the their water, their history and have cast my lot with them your efforts to put out a daily 1987. West Bank has convinced me their future but not their dignity while still hoping for a just and campus newspaper. It generally I asked myself, "Could anyone along with most other foreign nor their dream of a nation peaceful resolution of the issues has a nice balance of world, na­except a fanatical Jewish or government and non-govern­called Palestine. that would allow for Israel and tional and local campus news. I Christian zionist still be able the ment organization workers (as Terrorism and terrorists can Palestine to prosper together. have only been at Notre Dame reduce the injustice and well as most mainline Christian be found among Jews as well as The drawing which appeared since late January and I have bloodshed in the Holy Land to workers and even some Jews} Muslim and Christian Arabs. on 6 March hurts me and prob­looked forward to finding out terrorism by Arabs?" I re­that Israel represents the However, Israel cannot justify ably would hurt any "what's up" at a glance. Friday, minded myself how I rooted for abused, victimized and op­its dysfunctional behavior Palestinian. It shows that anti­6 March, was no exception even Israel in 1967 and again in pressed people that has become against the Arabs simply by re­Arab racism is still okay in though I did not manage to look 1973 and how I even wore a the empowered abuser, victim­calling the Holocaust and America. It shows that pro­through "The Observer" until "Star of David" around my neck izer and oppressor of others, Western anti-Semitism. Israel propaganda still domi­after 11: 00 in the evening. in 1971. namely the Palestinians. Palestinians have a human and nates after almost five years of 
All went well as usual until I I have met kids beaten and an internationally recognized generally non-violent protest by hit page 7 and saw your politi­The first time I ever heard the shot by the Israeli military. I right to their land. Palestinians. cal drawing of Shamir and Mr. name "Palestinian" or saw a have eaten with students whose It shows that many Americans Baker looking out over a Jewish man named "Arafat" on televi­homes have been blown up would say that most are still ignorant of and/or in­cemetery where nine stones sion was during the 1972 without any judicial proceeding Palestinians see themselves as different to Middle East politics implied that most or all of those Olympic Games in Munich. Back and others who have only lived members of a "resistance and history. Finally, it shows a buried were killed by then it was I who automatically in refugee camps. I have sat movement" against an occupy­lack of taste, sensitivity and re­"terrorists, "presumably Arab. thought that Arab/Palestinian with friends whose sons, broth­ing colonial force. They have liability. I believe an apology is 
My initial feeling was one of equaled terrorist. "How could ers, or husbands have been in sometimes responded to vio­in order. shock followed by anger that I the Arabs pick on those poor, administrative detention camps lence with violence but their ca­(Rev) Doug May, M.M. would see such a racist cartoon defenseless Jews who had suf­for months without trial. I have sualties far outnumber those of Holy Cross Brothers Center in any paper let alone reprinted fered so much throughout the looked on as Israel has raped Israel. I have seen the human Mar. 9, 1992 in yours. I wanted to pick up 
centuries, especially the current •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
the phone and verbally blast one?" I had read the book someone. However, it was after "Auschwitz" and had seen the midnight and Spring break had film "Exodus." Hadn't the Jews begun. The next morning I suffered enough? looked at the drawing again Then in 1977, I went to live and tried to make excuses for and work in the Middle East for the paper and the responsible the first time and met my first person saying to myself that live Arabs, some of whom were ignorance of Middle Eastern Palestinian. From that year, I history was to blame. listened to and read about 
Apparently there are those Arab/Palestinian history and a who are still so un/misinformed large crack appeared in my that they are unable to realize pro-IsraeVanti-Arab position. what has been going on in Over the last fifteen years, I lsraeVPalestine for the last 44 have lived and worked more years and especially the last 25. than a decade in the Middle I tried to take into account that East. Most of that time has been most ND/SMC students weren't spent in Egypt and some in even wetting diapers yet when several other countries in­the 1967 Arab-Israeli War cluding Israel and the West occurred. However, most of Bank where I spent the last two 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
them were at least in high weeks of the Gulf War. 
DOONESBURY 
()1(;4Y, B. 0., HI. TH/515 GUu= /AJAR Vl3T 8.0. I Yot/1?13 UP YCXJ KNOW, WHEN MY BUPI?/!35 
I£T'5 N7Tuse ANP I WeNT TO{.(JIJ.R, ~NAS 7He~PT. 71-115 CARPING UTTUJ-6UY-~T JlETGIV/3 ff(JCHANAN-WHO SAil?, "WN'T ~'fOUR 5CNP'eM! 7Hl3JOB'S 7W7W6Hl" 
F£:E/.j/IJ65, 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
/TWAS 70{%;H! BUT1-KJTANY 7DUGH&R 7HAN cotrl/NG H01r1E 7D A RU-&O«JN R/3C£8310N! /1.13IJleO FOR aJR C1:K.JNTR'f.IIWJ1/'KlA} tub C'AN'TevavGliTJOBS.' LaS 8U5H CARe? NOOO. EIJ5H IS 7W I?AMN BUSY 70... 7D... UM... 

'It's easier to put on slippers 
than it is to carpet the world.' 
Stuart SmalleY, "Daily Affirmations ' 
from Saturday Night Live 
Answer the answer man, submit: 

QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND,/N 46556 
Viewpoint

Friday, March 20, 1992 page 9 
The Mall is the sepulchre of American 
My friend Phil is the kind of 
Andrew Cutrofello 

guy who likes to tell people with 
Subterranean Homesick 

a straight face that he's into 
Politics

"easy listening" because it 
hear the voice of reason. "The' 

reminds him of pastel-colored 
mall opens up again in twelve

buildings in Phoenix. 
hours."

Like me, Phil hates malls with 
Phil stared wild-eyed at an

a passion, but I convinced him 
elderly woman who was sitting

that if we didn't go over to the 
on a bench finishing a cone of

mall to check out the traveling 
fat-free cardamom-raspberry

comic-book kiosks we'd never 
frozen· yogurt. Shaking with

know what we had missed. That 
feigned convulsions, Phil ap­

was a pretty weak argument, 
proached her. 

but he agreed to come along 
"How can you sit there so 

anyway. 
calmly, ma'am? Don't you know

This was a Friday night. At 
the mall's about to close!"

8:50 a woman's voice came over 
It was time to escort Phil to

the loudspeaker. Her tone of 

the parking lot. Maybe on the

voice was gloomy but reas­city that was planned down to answered. "You see, the most 
way out I'd be able to find some

suring, as if she were about to its last detail by modernist ar­striking thing about Brasilia
mild animal tranquilizer to take

tell a small child that a favorite chitects?" which they discovered as soon
the edge ofT his mania. 

stuffed animal had to be thrown "Didn't Madonna play there?" as it was built is that people
A tail-gating party was oper­

away because it smelled so bad, the beer guy asked. don't like living there. It's a
ating out of a mini-van parked

but don't worry because we'll "Perhaps," Phil said with a disturbing environment. It's ra­
next to the car.

get you another. dismissive wave of his hand. tionalized spaces are disorient­
"Want a beer, dude?" some

"The mall will be closing in "Yeah, I think she did," I nod­ing. Basically, it's an anal-re­
seventeen-year old kid asked

ten minutes," she said. "But we ded. tentive city." 
me.

will be opening up tomorrow "So glad to have that con­"On second thought," said I,
"No thanks," I said. "Listen,

morning at 9:00 sharp." firmed," Phil thanked me. "Now "maybe Madonna didn't play
buddy, I hope you and your

Something about that struck the entire city of Brasilia was there."
friends aren't going to drive

Phil as hilarious, and sent him built by design. It was to be a
around after you've been

into one of his theatrical moods. rational city, unlike the messy "What a downer, man," the
quaffing all those brews." I

"Ohhh, my God, ohhh my old cities such as Paris, Rome, beer guy offered, apparently
pointed to the crushed cans in

God," Phil started to moan over and Rio de Janeiro." trying to console Phil. "So
the back of the van.

and over, covering his face with "Rio de Janeiro is the place you're from this Brazilia
"Hell, no," he shook his head.

his hands. "The mall's closing where Sting played," I said to place?''
"We're here for the night. Mall

for twelve long hours! What're the beer guy. "Negative. But you see, an 
opens at 9:00 tomorrow morn­

we a-gonna do?" "No kidding?" especial problem with living in 
ing."

A few people who seemed to Phil gestured at the cars Brasilia," Phil explained, his
I glanced at Phil, to make sure

be mournfully watching the iron around us. "In Brasilia, even whispered voice suggesting that
he wasn't about to go off the

gate roll inexorably downwards parking lots had to be arranged we had now reached the crux of
deep end again. Luckily, he

at "Turtlenecks and T-s" turned in their proper places. the matter, "is that it was de­
looked pretty calm. But he

briefly to look at Phil, as if to Apartment complexes, office signed in such a way as to make 
cleared his throat ceremoni­

say who is this lunatic. But one buildings, shops, bowling al­sure that there were no public
ously, which meant it was time 

man, I swear, seemed to nod his leys-everything in Brasilia to­spaces conducive to
for some of his vintage oratory. 

.qead in sympathy, as if Pb.il day is supposed to be in its most spontaneous urban gatherings."
"Friend," Phil addressed the

were echoing the depths of his rational place." "Huh?" the beer guy and I 
guy who had offered us a beer,

own despair. "What about malls?" asked said simultaneously. 
"have you ever heard of the fair 

"Buck up, guy, to Phil, figuring the beer guy. "There's no central urban
city of Brasilia, the Brazilian

I might as well let the crowd "I'm coming to malls," Phil space where people can spon­
taneously come together on a Friday night!" Phil exclaimed. 
There was a somewhat lengthy pause, punctuated only by the beer guy crushing his empty can against his skull. 
"Well thank God for malls, then, dude!" he shouted finally. 
Phil looked as though he were about to shake the beer guy. "A mall is not an urban space. A mall is a sub-urban space, and I mean that phrase to resonate with the full potential of its pe­jorative connotations. But what's worst about malls is that they have become the displaced centers of our urban spaces!" 
"Is that like when you go to a concert, and they're lip-synch­ing?" I asked, beginning to see what Phil was getting at. 
"What it's like," he replied, "is perfectly captured in that bril­liant film, Dawn of the Dead, where zombies go shopping. The mall is the sepulchre of ur­ban life." 
Andrew Cutrofello is a profes­sor of philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His columns appear every other Friday. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Senator Hollings' quote was racially insensitive 
Dear Editor: 
I am shocked and ashamed at the disgustingly racist comment that a United States Senator, Ernest Hollings, has recently made. In the March 4, 1992 is­sue of The Observer, an AP news article quoted Hollings as saying "[American workers] should draw a mushroom cloud and put underneath it: 'made in America by lazy and illiterate Americans and tested in Japan.'" 
How can a human being joke of the deaths of tens of thou­sands of other humans? Unless, of course, the joker considers those who died to be less than human. How is Hollings' message any difTerent than that of David Duke? Both apparently hope to thrive and flourish by playing into the hatred of their constituents. If Duke had said to a cheering group of cross-burning followers that they should draw a picture of an 18th century slave ship and put underneath it: 'Instituted by Europeans and tested in America,' would this be amusing? I think not! 
Racism is racism whether di­rected toward the African Americans, the Japanese, the Jewish, or any other class of people. Shame on all who profit from the manipulation of the hatred of others, and shame on all who hate. 
For those who must hate and degrade other races, how about a Duke/Hollings ticket for 1996? 
James O'Brien Off-Campus Mar. 12, 1992 

Bookstore Commissioner defends efforts 
Dear Editor: 
As the Head Bookstore Basketball commissioner in apprenticeship for 1992, I am very concerned with the com­ments expressed (in a recent article) by Mr. DeAguiar and his opinion that "the coordina­tors of the tournament have shirked their responsibilities." 
During the latter half of the sign-up period, the commis­sioners were sharing Mr. DeAguiar's displeasure in the below average number of sign-ups for this year's tournament. However, the committee feels that it is wrong to pinpoint the promotional efforts of the SUB and the Bookstore commission as the sole cause for the small number of teams that made the early sign-ups for this year. 

Sign-ups for the tournament were conducted in much the same fashion as in past years. The methods used this year are the same that have yielded 650-700 teams in the past. As a matter of fact this year the commissioners advertised more than last year, offered extended hours and more days to allow greater opportunity for sign-ups. We even felt it necessary to take, out a very costly half-page Observer ad. 
Mr. DeAguiar's attempts to encourage people to sign-up are appreciated, but in light of the fact that more teams signed-up this year than in 1991, I believe his notions of any irresponsibility among the tournament coordinators are completely unjustified and un­substan In the future, improvements will be explored to attempt to boost the early sign-ups; however, as a general rule people wait until the last minute to register their team. 
This year's Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment will otTer plenty of chal­lenging competition with over 685 teams. Without a doubt, Bookstore Basketball XXI will involve games showcasing some of the most talented hoops players on the campus. Bookstore Basketball, and all of the excitement and fun that is associated with it, will con­tinue to embody and contribute to the spirit of sportsmanship at the University of Notre Dame. 
Andrew Sinn Bookstore Commissioner Mar. 2,1992 

Knott Hall thanks participants 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of Knott Hall we would like to thank all who participated in our annual Charity Medallion Hunt. Using his super-sleuth abilities, Greg Goger, a sophomore in Morrissey Hall was able to find the medallion near a bench outside of the Center for Social Concerns. As a result he was awarded Luxury Limousine service for an evening and dinner for four at Tippecanoe's. 
Also, thanks to significant student involvement we were able to donate $430 to Catholic Worker House. We look forward to your participation again next year. 
Sara Skalicky Chairman, Knott Hall Special Events Committee Mar. 17, 1992 



MARCH 20-22 
weekend calendar 
friday 
MUSIC 
The Juveniles, Bridget's, 1 0 p.m. Way Past 10, Club 23, 10 p.m. Bye Bye Johnny, Shenanigan's, 10 p.m. 
VIncent Van Gogh Gogh, Midway Tavern, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Folk Dancing, Club House, Saint Mary's College, 7:30 p.m. Glee Club Spring Concert, Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 
saturday 
MUSIC 
Jazz Man Grove, Club 23, 10 p.m. VIncent Van Gogh Gogh, Midway Tavern, 9:30p.m. Dick Holiday and the Bamboo Gang, Shenanigan's, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 
NAZZ '92 Battle of the Bands, Stepan Center, 6 p.m. to 12 a.m. Fine Arts Fund Classic Concert, Auditorium, Hesburgh 
Library, 7:30p.m. 
sunday 
EVENTS 
Plano Concert, Annenberg Auditorium, 3 p.m. 
films 
FRIDAY 
"Dead Agaln,"Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 &9:45p.m. "My Girl," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. "Fast Times at Ridgemont High," Stepan Center, 9 p.m. ''The Breakfast Club," Stepan Center, 11 p.m. "Back to School," Stepan Center, 1 a.m. "Animal House," Stepan Center, 3 a.m. 
SATURDAY 
"Dead Again" Annenberg Auditorium, 7:30 & 9:45 p.m. "My Girl," Cushing Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 p.m. 


Country finds way into Soutt 
By TIM ROGERS Accent Writer 

A 
lady in tight jeans and a microphone headset struts across a stage and calls out a cadence: "One, two...cha, cha, cha. One, two...cha, cha, cha." 
She looks a little like a cashier in a 
McDonald's drive-through. On a 
parquet dance floor below her, about 
7 5 guys and gals try not to step on 
each other's feet. 

Every Tuesday through Thursday night, country music fans come to learn the Two-Step at Heartland, South Bend's newest hooky-tonk. 
Last February, Heartland rose from 
the ashes of the short-lived dance 
club, Meanwhile. It's been Garth and 
Hank ever since. (That's Brooks and 
Williams for you greenhorns.) 
Besides a dance instructor with an 
irritating voice, the biggest problem 
Heartland has is the club that 
occupied the building before it. 
Judging by the decor, the owners of 
Heartland got a deal they couldn't 
refuse on some of Meanwhile's old 
equipment. 

A family of mirror-plated disco balls 
hangs over the dance floor which is 
constantly swept by computer­
operated spotlights shaped like five­
point stars. In short, Meanwhile 
folded, but its cheese lives on. 
The redeeming feature of a good 

country bar is sincerity. It's a have-one-on-the­house-and-watch­out-for-the-nail­in-the-bar-stool atmosphere. Heartland has no such nails. It does have t h e requisite animal skulls and rustic license plates on its walls, but the whole place appears contrived. 
Also, it has too many American flags. The DJ sits . in a crow's nest which is draped with a flag the size of a Buick car cover. 
And if the whole patriotic image thing doesn't come across with the flags, Heartland T-shirts locate the bar in South Bend, USA. (For those who don't know where Indiana is.) 
In all, Heartland has three unforgivable shortcomings. First, it serves fruity debutante drinks. Real country folk drink beer, and lots of it, but Heartland insists on serving sweet drinks with names like "Longhorn Lemonade" and "Cowpoke Cool-Aid." 
After a hard day of castrating bulls and punching cows, the last thing a 
thirsty m lemo dr e 
to 
men's 
all the st rest room looks mo an appendectomy th 
An authentic coun bathrooms with cl you spend as little ti There are no cigar: Heartland urinals I works fine. 
Finally, Heartland It doesn't serve Lon 
For all its short Heartland is still w you're tired of gettilli Linebacker or Con With four full se 
I 
1 
I 
Two couples dance the night away 'southern ~tyle' in S?uth Ben.d's newest Once known as Meanwhiles, Heartland prov1des dan.cmg, mus1c, and endeavored in the wave country music has taken in Amenca. 

-~1 
page 11 I 
l I

~. 
.. 

Bend's 'heart' 

n wants is a And if you're out to cut a rug, While the there's plenty of room for that, too. are big The dance floor has 3,000 square feet 
a of foot-stomping room. 

off just one, Heartland also has bar games they still have aplenty. Thirteen pool tables, no place electronic dart boards, table shuffle among the boards, a putting game and black­

-
rugged. jack tables (for amusement purposes 
T h e only) are scattered throughout the second bar. downfall of Every Tuesday, Heartland holds a Heartland is pool tournament and a dart 
i t s tournament with cash prizes. (Once bathrooms. again, the pool tables betray They're too Heartland's fakery. Any bar worth its 
clean. (Here, I salt has tilted tables with stained m only qualified felts, but all the tables at Heartland >peak about the are clean and level.) bathroom.) With .inless steel, the Besides the DJ, Heartland also has ·e appropriate for live country music Wednesday 
n a piss. through Saturday. For a small cover, ry bar has nasty the nightly bands play hard and the gged toilets that special concerts feature big names 
e in as possible. like The Marshall Tucker Band and ette butts in the Holly Dunn. and every toilet Perhaps the best reason to check 
out Heartland is the people. You won't has this last flaw: find too many Notre Dame baseball Star. caps and J. Crew outfits here. 
For the guys, it's tight Wranglers omings, though, with dip cans in the rear pocket and a visit. When cowboy boots. And for the ladies, it's trampled at the peasant blouses and long dresses. If mons, stop by. the place falls short of real, the 
Sounds ol the South invade NO
ce bars on two people don't. Heartland is located at 222 S. 
By PAIGE SMORON are about your mom getting and now the same people are
Michigan, downtown. 234-5200. 

Accent Writer thrown in jail, drinking singing the one song everyone whiskey, and your truck break­knows-in their acid-washed It began in the Personals a ing down," said Christine jeans," said Penote. 

few months ago. Penote, a senior from Virginia. Lisa Bourdon, a senior from "Garth Brooks is a god." "The songs usually end up Michigan, remembers being The response was immedi­with the guy getting drunk," scoffed at not to long ago. ate-and severe. observed Corey McGuire, a se­"Songs like 'Tight-Fittin' Jeans' "Garth Brooks is a drugstore nior from Oklahoma. gave country music a bad rap. cowboy." Then again, with lyrics like My friends would make fun of It was signed by "Willie, "Last night I came in at two me for listening to it," said 
Waylon, and the Boys." with a ten! And at ten I woke up Bourdon. Garth countered. with a two," maybe the subject "One person sent me a card 
•
''I'm too sexy for Willie, matter is just a little too close that said, 'In honor of your 
Waylon, and the Boys." for comfort. birthday, I opened up a beer, Tensions are running high. It's not Nashville, but the cried in it, played a truck-driv­••• greater Michiana area offers its ing song on the jukebox, then 
As Garth Brooks conquers share of rustic charm. At places got in a pick-up, and drove to pop audiences everywhere with like "Howdy Doody's" and Alabama to visit my daddy in his brand of country music, his "Heartland," patrons can dance prison,'" testified Bourdon. hit song "Low Places" has be­the cotton-eye joe-and enjoy But with all that in the past, come an alcoholic anthem for some buffalo wings while new fans and old loyals agree many Notre Dame students, they're at it. that country music means 
-
most of whom have never heard Most local country fans tune heartbreak, whiskey, pick-up of the two-step before. into Country 102.3 FM, which trucks-and Garth Brooks. 
From the Linebacker Lounge features shows like "Cryin', Everyone has a Garth Brooks to SYRs across the campus, Lovin', or Leavin'," and has a story. friends are grabbing other play list that includes "She "He pointed and waved at me friends, regardless of their Won't Get Under Me Until I Get in concert," said Penote. "I stature, to careen and croon Over You," "My Best Friend Ran swear." with Garth, "I've got friends in Off With My Wife, and I Miss "I talked to him," insisted low places/ Where the whiskey Him," and "All My Exes Live in Bourdon. "Some girls yelled 'We drowns and the beer chases/ My Texas." love you, Garth!' in concert, and blues away ... " And those out to fully experi­so when it got quiet, I yelled, 
A new wave of hot singers, ence the rurality of the music 'Me too!' He laughed. I have it including Garth Brooks, Randy cultivate "the look." "You gotta on videotape." Travis, and Clint Black, are wear Wranglers," said McGuire. ••• pumping new life into the coun­Elaborate hatbands, snake­The Personals have been 
try scene. These boys are not skin boots, and silver-tipped quiet-too quiet. It is an uneasy afraid to wear shirts with funky belts are optional, but hats are truce, and the big question has colors. These boys smash seasonal. "In the summer you yet to be resolved: Is Garth guitars on stage. wear a straw hat, and in the Brooks a god? 
Even Notre Dame is leaning in winter you wear a felt hat," said "He used to be a god, but now a westerly direction. Students McGuire. "That's how you can he's gotten too much media at­are being exposed to songs with tell who are the real country tention." titles like "Is It Cold In Here, Or people." 
The Qbserver/R. Garr SchwartZ Is It Just You?" "Real country people," for "No, he's not a god, but he is ot country spot, Heartland. And they like it. their part, are just a little sus­a good singer." 
inment for all who have Few, however, will admit to picious of the rapidly increasing "Yes. Garth Brooks is a god." actually identifying with the number of Garth fans. "First The clash in the Classifieds song lyrics. "I guess most songs they all hated country music, rages on. 

Friday, March 20, 1992
page 16 The Observer • 
.. 
Is the Glee Club damned from here to eternity? 


• 

~ 
~ 

-
~ 
fJ) 
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY Summering in Pittsburgh? DUQUESNE'S 1992 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: ,. TRANSFERABLE COURSES ,. ,. ACCELERATED SESSIONS ,. ,. START DATES MAY THRU JULY,. 
Ask about our wide variety of Science Courses, Language Courses and Trips! 
Registration is EASY-by FAX, phone, mail, or in person 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 for your complete SUMMER 1992 INFORMATION PACKAGE 

communicate. Now Notre Dame is making a place for other
Father Robert Griffin singing groups who wm follow 
in their footsteps. Each group will develop its
Letters to <J Lonely God 
own wonderful traditions, but not one of them can claim that they owe the Holy Father in Rome a concert. Pope Paul VI 
viva!, the good Clubber trusts discovered that the flea bag was waiting to greet the Glee that our hosts have done the hotel that we stumbled into one Club in their first visit to Rome best they can to feed and night in Boston was being used in 1971. shelter the travelers. by hookers as a house of ill re-Those students had to miss 
The good Clubber's duty is to pute. meeting the Pontiff because on show, by his graciousness, how In Vienna, our hotel rooms Wednesday when their grateful he is for small favors, were haunted by the ghosts of audience was scheduled, they and how unspoiled he is, as he old Nazis. In a youth hostel in had promises to keep up the faces a famine and pretends it's Brussels, we were chewed up road in Milan, and many miles 
a feast. by bedbugs. After singing a con-to go before they could sleep. 
Glee Clubbers are creatures cert in the cathedral at Each time the Glee Club has of infinite good will who trade Chartres, we discovered we had visited Home since then, they off comfort for the chance to reservations in a hostel that keep getting closer to the Holy sing, but this doesn't mean they hadn't been built yet. Father. Last time, they were mind being spoiled, or show-As you can see, some trips almost at his back when he was ered with comfort. that the Glee Club takes are saying Mass on the steps of St. 
Cardinal O'Connor has flown more hand to mouth than Peter's. Next time, he may turn them to New York to sing for his others are; but whatever hap-around; and seeing us, he may Christmas party at the Waldorf pens becomes part of the ad-listen, and be left happy by the Astoria, putting them up at venture that bind Clubbers to-music of young voices. glittering hotels in mid-town gether, even though they come If that happens, I'll stop car-Manhattan. home on a wing and a prayer. ing about the President's men 
Actress Helen Hayes fell in In bad times as in good times, who reneged on inviting the love with them at first sight something beautiful always Glee Club to the White House, when she joined them on stage happens to redeem the hard-in the days when Billy Graham to read the Christmas story. ship. I stay busy, watching how served as court chaplain at the 
They fell in love with her, the Singing Irish endear them-prayer breakfasts attended by even before she told them they selves to the audiences before Nixon and Ford. Of course the outshone Leonard Bernstein. whom they perform. politics of Vietnam got in the Not long ago, they flew the Last week in Puerto Rico, at a way of all that. friendly skies to Jackson, Miss., concert for villagers who live Every time I hear the Glee to sing with the symphony and near the mountains, I studied Club sing, "Shall we gather at share the stage with Shirley the faces of the women and the River?" I think, "These fel­Jones, who starred in the movie young people who were giving las brought me to Disneyland, version of Oklahoma! and the music their undivided at-then to Disney World and Epcot Carousel. tention. Center. Is it possible that when 
Glee Clubbers are no When one of the Clubbers my time comes, they could strangers to traveling first named Mario told them as he bring me by their music to the class. I remember when they was announcing a song, "This beautiful river flowing by tq,e were feted with a champagne beautiful island is part of my throne of God?" reception in the Opera House in heritage, since my grandmother It's more likely that for my San Francisco. In Vegas, they lives here," I understood that exit music I will hear the Whiff­always stay as guests at the big-seeing one of their own as a enpoofs singing "Damned from name casinos. Notre Dame student, those here to eternity." With the 
We stayed once in Switzer-humble village people invested WhifTenpoofs, of course, I could land at a hotel that had just fresh hope in the American be in good company, but I'd been rated by Fortune Dream. rather hear the Glee Club like magazine as one of the 10 best The Glee Club is a showcase flights of angels sing me to my in the world. for the goodness and beauty of rest. 
On the other hand, we young people who have joy to ...............-...-.. 
. I 
····~ Acoa::;.wiTHO~o•~ 
••••••• SPECIALS 
Iii 
•••••••• MARCH 18-22, 1992 II! 
·.·.·.·. :::::::: 
~ AN: 1:::~~:o:~;~~::L~:::E:,NK 11 
5

ill $ .20 OFF ALL CONE: 2~: CUPS OF ICE CREAM ii 
:·:!Ji! OPEN' 7,30 AM UNTIL 2,00 AM-MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY II 
:::::::: 10:00 AM UNTIL 2:00 AM -SATURDAY AND SUNDAY t)
I IIlOCATED IN THE LOWER LEVEL OF LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
~ttr~~rrr~ttrrt~tt~~:::~::::t~~t:::::::r:ttttttt:tff??::~~~ttttt::::::tt:r:tt:::~~:::t~~:~~~t~~::::::t::::::::tt::tt:t::::::::tt:ttt 
I have heard them singing in the great cathedrals of Europe; and the beauty of their "Ave" at Notre Dame in Paris left the members of the congregation transfixed, as though they were being introduced to the Catholic soul of the city. 
I have heard them singing hymns of Christ's passion in the Catholic chapel at Dachau; the effect was like seeing for the first time Marc Chagall's great painting called "The White Cru­cifixion." which shows Christ as a brother to the Jewish victims who have died in pogroms and holocausts. 
1 have heard them singing on national television: on the To­day show, and for Hegis Philbin, and the Monday Night Football game. 
A<; the chaplain who has trav­eled with the Glee Club for 23 

-
years, I have heard the sing at the llolbrau House in Munich, at the Mozart shrines in Salzburg, and at the castles on the Rhine, where Wagner wrote of the gotterdannerung. 
I have heard them sing at more modest gigs which must have left them humbled. Ap­pearing in one of the marble halls that Mellon and Carnegie built in Pittsburg back in the days when, in John Lennon's words, "the Beatles were more famous than Jesus," the Glee Club had an audience of 35 people. 
Still, they sang beautifully, because it has always been a Glee Club tradition to sing beautifully, as long as they're in the presence of a warm body willing to listen. 
As their senior groupie, I've become a living archive; not that I know everything; as an old-timer traveling with stu­dents, I don't want to know ev­erything. Still, some of the sto­ries catch up with me, and I learn of tempted Clubbers ex­hibiting grace under pressure, in the old Dutch towns where the lads love to go to hear the chimes ring at midnight. 
As a witness of the Glee Club in action. I've been there on the road with them more than any­body. 
Since spring break in 1969, I've spent 100,000 miles, more or less, riding with the Glee Club on buses, examining each new season's crop of campus extroverts; and I think I have a clear picture of the traditions and discipline which have turned them into the brother­hood of Johnny-one-notes whom America hears singing. 
Like the WhifTenpoofs at Yale, most glee clubs appropriate Kipling's barrack-room ballad as their personal anthem. 
"We're poor little lambs who've lost our way, Baa! Baa! Baa!/We're little black sheep who've gone astray, Baa-aa­aa!/Gentle-rankers"-of course at Yale, this is gentlemen-song­sters "out on the spree/Damned from here to Eternity/God ha' mercy on such as we/Bah! Yah! Bah!" 
It's probably child's play to swagger as a black sheep when you're lifting your glass at the tables down at Maury's. But by the sixth day of riding the bus on a nine-day concert tour, even a Poof should be tempted to start whimpering from dis­tress like the Cowardly Lion. 
By that time, the air has be­come foul with body odors and animal smells and the stench of soured orange juice tracked under foot; and even when the door is closed, the lavatory, over the right rear wheel reeks of urine and disinfectant. 
Rising before daylight for a road trip of 600 or 700 miles before a performance that starts at eight that evening, you go schlepping over the inter­state to Tank Town USA, where the supper they serve you in the church basement is sloppy Joe on a bun and some Kool-Aid and the sleeping accommoda­tions are in the condemned children's wing of the county orphanage. 
The club business manager must say to the sponsor, "Let's make a deal that you can't refuse. We will sing for our supper and a bed without breakfast." 
Noblesse oblige, so no Domer complains as long as there's an audience present to fall in love with the singers. Relying on that evening's hosts for sur­

The Observer accepts classmeds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classnieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 17 Friday, March 20, 1992 

United Limo round trip ticket to  The Lizard King lives on! Down with  TOP 1 0 QUOTES FROM THE  
NOTICES  LOST: Navy blue ID CASE at Lafayette Square on 3/17. Many  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12 NEW UNITS-1300 sq. ft.­ Chicago. Good for one year. $50 ticket for $40. 272-4311 Eggleston  the Crustaceans!  DEBATE FLORIDA TRIP 1. I CANT GO ON THE CRUISE, I  
needed cards inside. If found,  Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­ School.  to the athletic dept.:  SPENT ALL MY MONEY AT THE  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082.  please call x2722.  available immediately -call 287­0534 or 271-9268.  Hey BP !!!! VOTE  your time is gonna come -led zeppelin  BOWLING ALLEY. 2. YOU ETHNOCENTRIC UTILE WITCH.  
LYNN and LISA  It puts the lotion on its skin, or else  3. YOU'RE STUPID-AND I PAY  
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406  LOST: Leather braided bracelet with gold beads at Loftus on Thursday, March 19, in the morning. VERY SENTIMENTAL VALUE  HOUSES FOR RENT, SECURITY SYSTEMS, FURNISHED, 4-8 BEDROOMS, KEGERATORS. 287­ Friedewald Ramos for Co-Pres Monday 23  it gets the hose again. (Stupid.)  CASH 4. I',M TEMPORARY MAINTENANCE 5. EXAMINE MY UNDERVIEW ... IM  
ATIACHED!! 288-9421.  4989.  LIFE  She sings a song and I listen to  EXTENDING ON TOP! IMPACT!!  
Hey GRACE Men!!  #%$ OF  what it says-If you want a friend, feed any animal  6.1 THOUGHT THAT WAS HIS SPACE  
Spend all your$ on break? Earn some for rest of the semester by delivering newspapers in the dorm. Call Kathy X4026  ··LosT·· a green jacket w/ a tan/brown collar lost at turtle creek on st. Patty's day  Needed-two female students to share OAKHILL CONDO for 92-93 year, and/or summer rental. undergrad/law/grad.Amy or Stacy @ 277-9452  BRIAN! PLAYING TONIGHT!!!!! AT GRACE COFFEEHOUSE!!!  There's so much space, I cut me a piece with some fine wine, It brought peace to my mind in the Summertime, And it rolled!  7. HI I'M SLASH AND THIS IS MY FRIEIIID HAIRSPRAY BUNNY 8. NOW IS THE TIME ON SPROCKETS WHEN WE LOUNGE 9. FREEDOM'S A GREAT THING, BUT I'LL BE DEAD BY SPRING.  
call mike X4183  IT'S HERE!  10. OUR COACH LOVES IT WHEN  
NEED CASH?  YOU'VE GOT NOTHING BEITER TO DO & NOTHING TO LOSE!!!!  WAKE IT SHAKE IT DO IT DAWGIE STYLE  JUDGES LIKE YOU HATE US! AND THAT'S WHY WE WON THE  
Paper delivery person needed for Grace Hall. Call Kathy x4026 FOR ONLY $1499 SPHINX TOURS ANNOUNCES A 15 DAYS NILE CRUISE INCLUDING AIRFARE, ON BOARD ONE OF OUR LUXURY FLOATING FIVE STAR HOTELS SAILING BETWEEN CAIRO AND ASWAN. ALL MEALS INCLUDED FROM OUR EXQUISITE CUISINE, PLUS SWIMMING POOL, BAR AND DISCO. VISITS TO 15 CITIES TO SEE THE PHARAONIC WONDERS. CALL 800-233-4978. LOST/FOUND LOST glasses in Ray-Ban case on 2/29 between the JACC and Keenan. Gold framed. Tortoise ear-pieces. Please call Dave x3328  WANTED A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVE! Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. Boston/NY City. Super kids, great food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, arts/crafts, all land/water sports, fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, photography, computers, rocketry, guitar, radio, video, yearbook, newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, RN, more! 6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., Eastchester, NY 10707. 800/955-CAMP SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373  Rent one bdrm apartmt close to campus, $250+ util, dep. 288-4919. ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO., for large 4-BR, furnished house. Complete security system; washer & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259­7801 or 255-5852. FOR SALE CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 86 vw....................................$50 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 65 Mustang .......................... $50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC Pioneer receiver & tape deck for sale x2322  COME & SEE THEM!!! TAKE BACK THE NIGHT MARCH will be this Sunday, March 22, as the beginning of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. Beginning at 7pm at LeMans Main Circle, it will . process to the Grotto and Fieldhouse Mall. All are welcome JOE ROBERTS: great pictorial, but it only made me wish i'd been on holiday with you. be careful with those "amply endowed" women-you know how jealous i get. should we start a countdown until may 2? check for birthday messages. monicababe D I s s F 9PM U AT N THE NAZZ K T I 0  ADOPTION: PROFESSIONAL COUPLE, HAPPILY MARRIED, FINANCIALLY SECURE, STRONG BASIC VALUES, EAGER TO ADOPT AND WELCOME A BABY INTO A LOVING CIRCLE OF FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND PROVIDE MANY OF LIFE'S ADVANTAGES. EXPENSES PAID. JUDITH AND JESSE 1-800-933­3499. Allegro Grand Opening specials today thru Sunday. Check it out I WANTED: 1 or 2 dedicated students to fill the Thurs.6-8 evening shift for COUNSELINE. If you are interested in providing this community service, call 239-7336. I'm So Happy Quotes from Ft. Myers -Where are the hat people? -Rand Rover? -We're looking for three! -1 fried? Yes, you FRIED! -Goonie goo goo! -Osprey-Sharon!  FLORIDA SWING. Michael, I love your shorn duckling head!!! -renee Tim-You were unconscious from drugs and half naked on their birthday? Don't back into any doorhandles. Hehhhhhhhhh???? Happy Birthday Gloria, Marina & Tony's Top 10 in Mexico City 1 0 No wonder the population is so big here -PDA everywhere! 9 Guerita -said to Gloria by a Mexican vendor. 8 Tonight is your night!!! 7 Ay Marina! 6 Get in Marina! -as the metro doors shut on her. 5 Y'all citizens of the U.S. -asked by an INS officer  
LOST Spalding NBA basketball lost at Stepan Courts on Thurs. before break on court nearest Stepan  Wanted: Female roommate(s) to share apartment for the summer. Students staying for summer school or internships ideal. Call 283-4098 for information.  CD PLAYER-w/ remote, exc. condition. Best offer, x2385  N THOSE LONG GREEN BEADS WERE WORTH IT. DO YOU STILL HAVE THE BLUE ONES I GAVE YOU IN FRONT OF PAT  -Grasshopper you must concentrate. -Do you know a football player named Cookie? -Yup, yup, yupl -Go to room 312.  in a southern drawl. -Sf. 41 HATE TEXAS! 3 Will you DO ME ... a favor?  
Center. Last name is on ball  O'BRIEN'S? I KNOW, THIS IS  -If the eye does not admire, the  
(Bianco).  PERSONAL  CRAZY!  heart will not desire.  2 Tony, Tony? Tony!  
Found  Now taking aplication for part-time employment in a Bike Shop. 277-8866. Bike Shop exp. required.  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00,  Fwanh Fwanh Fwanh .....  -BETA!! -Grinch puppy wave. -Are ya'll twins? From the 2 blondes and a pair of big brown eyes!!!!  1 D6nde esta Juan? -also in Portuguese & German.  
Wilson basketball on same court as  289-1993. Office near campus.  THERESA FORST is 21 today!!  Jasmine Groove!  
above. I assume someone took the  CLUB 23  
wrong ball by mistake. I would appreciate exchange. Call Joe @ 2064. HELP HELP !I! I've lost my sole­mate. I've heard that he was  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  I, myself, cannot. We are not strong You should be with us, feeling like  In lieu of an incriminating photo, here's her top ten in­criminating quotes: 10. We deserve it because we go here. That's why I don't pay for my candles at the Grotto.  ADOPTION If you think it may be best for your baby and for you to consider adoption, please call us. We are a responsible, childless couple with values and traditions which offer a child security, 2 loving parents, and a warm home. We hope you will  Saturday@ toPM I'M FREE!!! I'M FREE AT LAST FROM THE OPPRESSION OF THE QUEEN. DR. SMEGMA IS BACK TO STAY. AHH HA HA HA HA!I!!! Quotes and Observations from a RED CRACKHOUSE:  
hanging from a tree outside the  we do...  9. We rule the floor!  choose us to be the parents of your  
Riley building before break. We  baby. Legal and Medical expenses  Pete, Sean, and Sean: from now on  
were separated on February 27,  FOR RENT  8. I'd kiss him even if he had  paid. Please call Bill and Kathy,  chew your food before you decide  
1992, during a routine trip from the  gangrene on his tongue.  collect, at 219-322-8187.  to play 60 Minutes.  
CCMB to Rockne. He is a very  KATHARSIS  
worn, tan (well, dirty tan)  ATIENTION:  7. Throw me out with last  Snatch.  
Birkenstock and holds great value.  Staying in Good Old South Bend  THIS BAND WILL ROCK STEPAN  week's garbage.  
If you can help me -please call  for the Summer? If you must stay  CENTER AT THE BATILE OF  SOUNDTECHS  Hello, Dream woman.  
Brooke at x2665  here, you might as well do it up  THE BANDS. WE PLAY LAST IN  6. To be drinking beers in a  DJs  
right--Beautiful 2-Bedroom, Two­ THE CONTEST AT 11 :45 P.M..  pool, I wouldn't care if Omni­ SOUNDTECHS  You just think you're having fun  
story Turtle Creek Townhouse for  OUR SONGS WILL BE: THE  Joe was sitting in my lap!  DJs  because you're screaming.  
rent for !the Summer Sessions  OCEAN BY LED ZEPPELIN, BEEN  
LOST: green petite woman's class  Features include an outdoor  CAUGHT STEALIN' FROM  5. Kill me, shoot me, stuff  The Student Activities Office  Jay got some play from some  
ring. Possibly near Common's or  swimming pool, a fenced-in back  JANE'S ADDICTION, UNDER THE  me when I'm dead.  is looking for sound /light  asphalt last night.  
Linebacker. If found please return  patio, and only a five minute walk to  BRIDGE BY RED HOT CHILl  technicians and disc jockeys  
to 143 Farley or call Angie at 4095.  campus. Call Now!!!!  PEPPERS AND DREAM ON BY  4. I'll go-only if we all  for next year. If interested  wet !-shirt contest... I didn't see too  
Thanks.  Call Peggy at 277-3626 or Cricky  AEROSMITH. WITNESS THE  gather together and get in  stop by 315 LaFortune  many !-shirts.  
at X2922--PLEASE!!!  PURGATION. GUITAR: ANDY  the shower.  Student Center.  
ELLISON • VOCALS: JASON  Deadline for applications is  Beta Beta Beta -­beer, babes, and  
THOMAS.BASS: GENE SHEIKH"  3. I hate it when people ask  Friday, March 27.  barbells.  
FOUND: a silver ring with a black  DRUMS: MARCUS VAUGHN"  me if my zits are injuries.  
middle shaped like a sideways  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  THE LAST SHALL BE FIRST.  frat a--holes.  
eyeball was found on a doorstep on  219-291-7153.  2. I'm so tired ... l can't move ...  
Navarre street on St. Patrick's Day,  ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS:  my underwear are on inside­ To our favorite BRAIN- one person scored out of thirteen ...  
perhaps left by one of the  "JOBS, TRAVEL, ADVENTURE!  out.  what studs we are!  
unwelcome, rude and offensive  200+ listings for over 50,0000  We enjoyed the show Tuesday  
guests.  SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL- positions -national/international.  1 . Come see my tanker bra­ night-did you?  I hate reality ... I don't get enough  
288-9421  3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE  Send $4.95 + $1 P&H to  it's a little bit transparent.  reality  
OF FACILITIES,  Renaissance Resources, Box 652,  -2 women with breasts  -­ 
KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO.  Driggs, ID, 83422 or call208-354­ ••••HAPPY BIRTHDAY r•••  Thanks guys for an awesome  
NICE NEIGHBORHOOD  2795."  break. I'm glad I have friends who  
FOUND:  & HOME.  make me laugh.  
Mechanical Drafting Pencil on the  CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  ATIENTION ND/SMC GRADS  Bonne Anniversaire  
sidewalk by Farely Hall.  PAUL 232-2794.  HEADED TO CHICAGO-Have a  JASMINE GROOVE will be at Club  Ma Rose!  
To indentify and claim,  great apt before Sr Wk-Available  23 on Saturday! So will the women  Wish I Were There.  
call Chris at X2115 by the Sunday after break.  FOR RENT  May 1 st-2 bdrms, 1 bthrm,fireplace,hardwood  who brought Jeanne, Lisa, Molly and Katie into the world. So BE  Love,Jo  'l(ejfection am£ Prayer  
"ONLY $125 PER PERSON ....  flrs,zoned parking,heart of Lincoln  THERE I  with  
259-7801 OR 255-5852"  Park,1/2blk from L,8 min to  'J{enri'JI{_ouwen  - 
...Losr··  dwntwn,adj to Depaul,$1000/mo­ D  ar{  
glasses with metalic frame  3 Bedroom Walk to Campus $555 Month  heat included-Call Chris or Jim 312­296-2924 6-1 0 pm  hey nit  I s s  L 'Jltrche am£'Emmaw Companions  
REWARD!  232 3616  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award  F 9PM  
call Joe at 1208  Winning Hotel, has rooms for  U AT  Sat, 'March 21  
For Rent  Graduation weekend. Located at  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  N THE NAZZ  2:00 -5:30p.m.  
Found mini 35mm camera Was found just before CHRISTMAS break.  5Br. 2 bth house for next semester newly remodeled, 1 mile from campus. Right behind Lat.  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart (12 miles from South Bend) Minimum stay 2 nights with $110 deposit per room. Send letter with  Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at  K T I 0  Center for Socia£ Concerns ju{fowetf by ;Farewef{ Cefe6ration  
Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer  deposit to 3011 Belvedere Rd.,  $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  N  
call Joe 1208  call 232-8256  Elkhart, IN 46514.  


NIT ROUNDUP 
B.C. 78, S. ILLINOIS 69 
S. ILLINOIS (22-8) 
Lowery 5-14 4--4 14. da Silva 3-4 0-0 6. Lawrence 1·3 2·2 5. Bell 5-10 0-0 11, Amaya 7·18 1·2 15, Okenwa 1-3 0-0 2. Tlmrrons 0-1 0-0 o. Pavlovic 3-6 2·2 10, Smith 0-0 0-0 0, Gabbert 2·2 0-0 8, Wynn 0-0 0-0 0, Boston 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 27· 61 9-10 69. BOSTON COLLEGE (17-13) 
Elsely4-12 3-5 14, Huckaby 8-12 1--4 17, Curley 9-14 6-7 24, Jad<son 3-7 2·3 8, Abram 5-10 2--413 Mollnaky 0-2 0-0 0, Hinton 0-2 0-0 0, Hrobowskl 1·' 1 0-0 2. Foley 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 30-61 14-23 78. 
Halftime-Boston College 36, Southern Illinois 19. 3-Polnt goal-Southern Illinois 6-14 (Pavlovic 2--4, Gabbert 2·2, Lawrence 1-1, Bell 1-3, Amaya 0-1, Lowrey 0-3), Boston College 4-14 (Eisley 3-5, Abram 1-4, Huckaby 0-3, Mollinsky 0­2). Rabounda-Southern Illinois (Amaya 12), Boston College (Jackson, Abram 7). Aaalat­Southern Illinois (Lowrey. Bell, Pavlovic 4) Boston College (Huckaby 8). Total foul-Southern Illinois 18, Boston College 11. Technlcala­Boston College. Eisley. A-NA. 
Tix on sale today for ND­Kansa_s State 
Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will take on Kansas State (16-13) in the second round of the National Invitational Tournament on Monday night at the Joyce ACC at 7:30p.m. 
The Wildcats defeated Western Kentucky, 85-74, on Wednesday night to advance. 
Tickets for the game go on sale today at noon at the JACC Gate 10 box office, and student tickets arc four dollars. 
The first 130 students purchasing tickets will be given floor seats at the student ticket 
RHODEIS.68,VANDY63 
RHODE ISLAND (21-9) 
Brown 0-3 4--4 4, SamueiS-121-313, Kent 4-12 3--4 11, Alexander 2-6 5-6 9, Fox 2·8 0·0 6, Cofield 3-8 2·2 9, Collins 4-5 1-1 9, lvey-Jones 2-3 3-4 7, Easterling 0-2 0-0 0. Totals 23-59 19-24 68. VANDERBILT (15-15) 
Eider 4·10 1-2 11, Halit-6 2--4 4, Milholland 5-10 0-0 10, Anglin 9-13 6-7 28, McMahan 2·11 0·0 4, Milburn 0-0 0-0 0, Evans 0-0 0-0 0, Woods 0-0 1-4 1, Beth 1--4 2-2 5, Daunic 0-2 0-0 0, Rucker 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 22-56 12-19 63. 
Halftime-Rhode Island 22, Vanderbilt 20. 3­Polnt goal-Rhode island 3-14 (Fox 2-5, Cofield 1·2, Brown 0-1, Samuel 0-2. Kent 0-2. Alexander 0-2), Vanderbilt 7-20 (Anglin 4·7, Elder 2-3, Beth 1­3, Daunlc 0-1, McMahan 0-6). Fouled out-Hall. Rebounde-Rhode Island 41 (Kent 12), Vanderblft 32 (Milholland 8). .r...t•t-Rhode island 6 (Samuel, Kent, Alexander 2). Vanderbilt 7 (Elder, McMahan 3). Total foul-Rhode Island 21, Vanderbih, 20. A-7,811. 
MANHATTAN 67, UWBB 6 
WISCONSIN-GREEN BAY (25·5) 
Ciaravino 1·2 0-0 2, Johnson 1--4 0-0 2, Hili 2-5 
3-4 7, Rondorf 4-9 1-2 12, VanderVelden 1-2 0-0 2, 
LeDuc 2-2 0-0 4, LeMoine 0-2 0-0 o, Ludvigson 0­
1 0-0 0, Bennett 11-16 5-5 36. TotalS 22-43 9-11 
65. 
MANHATTAN (24-8) 
Dubra 5-8 0-0 14, R.WIIIiams 0-1 0·0 0, Bullock 
10-18 7-9 27, Bernsley 3-6 1-2 7, Edwards 1·5 1-3 
3, Brown 1-1 0-0 2. C.Williams 3-5 0-1 8, Wilson 3­
6 0-0 6. Totals 26-50 9-15 67. 
Halfllll'llt---Manhattan 35, Wisconsin-Green Bay 28. 3-Polnt goal-Wisconsin-Green Bay 12-18 (Bennett 9-10, Rondorf 3-6, Johnson 0-2), Manhattan 6-15 (Dubra 4-7, C. Williams 2-4, R.WIIIiams 0-1, Edwards 0-1, Wilson 0·2). Fouled out-None. Rebound-Wisconsin-Green Bay 22 (Hill 5), Manhattan 30 (Bullock, Bernsley 9). Aaal•t-Wisconsin-Green Bay 12 (Bennett 5), Manhattan 17 (Bernsley 6). Total foUl­Wisconsin-Green Bay 18, Manhattan 13. A-3,055. 
PURDUE 82, BUTLER 56 
BUTLER (21-10) 
Taylor 0-3 2-2 2. Archbold 10-23 0-1 23, ReiWord 
2·6 0-0 4, Wilson 0-2 0-0 0, Guice 6-11 0-0 14, 
Bowen 2-6 0-0 6, Brans 0-2 0-1 0, Allen 0-3 0·0 0, 
Beauford 2-4 0-0 5, Gault 0--4 0-0 o. Ryser 1-1 0-0 
2, Banks 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 23-65 2--4 56. 
PURDUE (17-14) 
Martin 3-6 1-2 7, Stanback 2-6 3-4 7,Riley 4-5 4-4 
12, Austin 10-17 2-2 24, Darner 3-5 2-2 10, 
Waddell 2-3 1-2 5, Brantley 2-3 0-0 5, Painter 3--4 
2-3 8, McNary 1·1 0-0 2. Trice 0-0 0-0 0, Spiker 1-1 
0-0 2. Totals 31-51 16·21 82. 

-
prir.P.. 
r;;5L-f: ,@c';:::\__--~ ,
·2!:uft1e • ....,. /reeJi: 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/10 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
272-8124 
UTlii&HI 
~ 
NATIONAL NUTRITION MONTH• 
LOW-FAT, LOW-CALORIE LUNCH AND DINNER SPECIALS 
FEATURED MARCH 23-27 
OAK ROOM 
SOUTH DINING HALL 
CALL OUR MENU LINE --239-7518 

EAST REGIONAL  
NBA STANDINGS  Arat Round Thuraday, March 111  
At Greensboro Coliseum  
Greensboro. N.C.  
Seton Hall 78, La Salle 76  
Missouri 89, West Virginia 78  
Duke 82, Ca"lJbell 56  
EASTERN CONFERENCE  Iowa 98, Texas 92  
AUanUc Dlvlaion w L New York 40 25 Boston 37 30 Philadelphia 30 36 Miami 30 37 New Jersey 29 36 Washington 22 44 Orlando 16 51  Pet. .615 .552 .455 .448 .446 .333 .239  Gl 4 10 112 11 11 18 112 25  Friday, March 20 At The Centrum Worcester, Mass. Kentucky (26-6) vs. Old Dominion (15-14), 12:35 p.m. N.C. Charlotte (23-8) vs. Iowa State (20-12), 30 minutes alter Massachusetts (28-4) vs. Fordham (18-12), 7:40 p.m. 
Central Dlvlalon x-Chicago 55 12 Cleveland 43 21 Detroit 41 26 indiana 32 36 Atlanta 31 35 Milwaukee 29 35 Charlotte 25 38 WESTERN CONFERENCE Mldweat Dlvlalon w L Utah 43 23 San Antonio 41 25 Houston 37 30 Denver 22 43 Dallas 17 50 Minnesota 11 54 Pacific Dlvlalon Portland 48 19 Golden State 44 20 Phoenix 43 24 Seattle 36 30  .821 .672 .612 .471 .470 .453 .397 Pet. .652 .621 .552 .338 .254 .169 .716 .688 .642 .545  10 112 14 23 112 23 1/2 24 112 28 Gl 2 6112 20 112 261/2 31 112 2112 5 11 112  Syracuse (21-9) vs. Princeton (22-5), 30 minutes a~er MIDWEST REGIONAL Arat Round Thuraday, March 19 At The Bradley Center Milwaukee Arkansas 80, Murray State 69 Memphis State 80, Pepperdine 70 Georgia Tech 65, Houston 60 Southern California 84, Nonheast Louisiana 54 Friday, March 20 At U. ol Dayton Arena Dayton, Ohio Michigan State (21-7) vs. Southwest Missouri State (23-7), 12:25 p.m. Cincinnati (25-4) vs. Delaware (27-3), 30 minutes after Kansas (26-4) vs. Howard (17-13), 8:05p.m. Evansville (24-5) vs. Texas-Ei Paso (25-6), 30 minutes after  
LA Clippers 35 32  .522  13  WEST REGIONAL  
LA Lakers 34 32  .515  131/2  Firat Round  
Sacramento 20 47  .299  28  Thuraday, March 19  
x-clinched playoff benh.  At Unlvershy Pavilion  
Friday'• Gamea  Boise, Idaho  
Washington at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m.  Georgetown 75, South Florida 60  
Atlanta at Charlotte, 7:30p.m.  Florida State 78, Montana 68  
Golden State at Cleveland, 7:30p.m.  Louisiana State 94, Brigham Young 83  
Milwaukee at Indiana, 7:30p.m.  Indiana 94, Eastern Illinois 55  
Boston at Detroit, 8 p.m.  Friday, March 20  
Sacramento at Dallas, 8:30 p.m.  At University Activity Center  
LA Clippers at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m.  Tempo, Allz.  
Minnesota at LA Lakers. 10:30 p.m.  DePaul (20-8) vs. New Mexico State (23-7), 2:45  
Saturday'• Gamee  p.m.  
Miami at New York, 7:30p.m.  Oklahoma (21-8) vs. Southwestern Louisiana (20­ 
Orlando at Chicago, 8:30 p.m.  1 0), 30 minutes after  
Sacramento at Houston, 8:30 p.m.  Louisville (18-10) vs. Wake Forest (17-11), 8:10  
Seattle at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m.  p.m.  
LA Clippers at Denver, 9 p.m.  UCLA (25-4) vs. Rober1 •.:orris (19-11), 30  
Portland at Utah, 9:30 p.m.  minutes after  
Minnesota at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m.  
SOUTHEAST REGIONAL  
Firat Round  
Thuraday, March 111  
At Rlver1ront Coliseum  
Cincinnati  
North Carolina 68, Miami, Ohio 63  
Alabama 80. Stanford 75  
Ohio State 83, Mississippi Valley State 56  
Connecticut 86, Nebraska 65  
Friday, March 20  
At The Omni  
Atlanta  
St. John's (19-10) vs. Tulane (21-8), 12:15 p.m.  
Oklahoma State (26-7) vs. Georgia Southern (25·  
5), 30 minutes after  
Michigan (20-8) vs. Temple (17·12). 7:35p.m.  
Arizona (24-6) vs East Tennessee State (23-6)  



Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Seniors are invited to 

APRIL 3, 1992 7:00 PM-12 MIDNIGHT 
A Polish wedding banquet will be served. 2 great campus bands will provide dance music all night long. 
The cost: $22 a couple, $15 single 
The Venue: St. Hedwig's Memorial Hall, Western Ave. at Scott Street 
Tickets are available from the LaFortune Ticket Desk and must be purchased by March 30. 
Sponsored by the Off-campus Coalition for Quality of Life 
For further information contact: 
Mike Richardson 272-6392 Jim Mahony 289-7736 Tom McDermott 239-7800 
Friday, March 20, 1992 The Observer page 15 

-

page 16 The Observer Friday, March 20,1992 
Home opener next for SMC tennis 
Albion visits on Saturday 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team (3-4), swings open its home season Saturday, hosting Albion College. 
Leading the Belles this year is senior Ellen Mayer. The four year letterman is currently ranked 35th in Division III singles. This is great for a small school, considering it is out of 238 teams. Mayer is also ranked 7th in the region for singles. 
Mayer is confident about the weekend match. "Last year we beat them pretty easily. It should be a close match, but we have home court advantage." 
Mayer's double partner is the team's number two player, senior Marie Koscielski. Number three Mary Cosgrove, sophomore, plays with number six Andrea Ayres. Junior Natalie Kloepfer is ranked fourth and sophomore Thayma Darby is fifth. 
Leading Albion in its first match of its season will be fifth seeded J en Basch. Playing at the number five position for the last two seasons, Basch has won the MIAA #5 singles title twice and is expected to do well in the league this year. 
Returning with Basch are sophomores Eva Kopp, Jennifer Freldlien, juniors Jen Kurr and Jen Myers. Missing from the Albion squad this year is Christy James. James was Albion's top singles player last year. The Belles top single player last year, Mayer's sister Sarah, defeated her. 
Following the Albion meet. the Belles will host Aquinas College on March 24. 
Sycamore Classic next challenge for Irish softball 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish softball team will play in the Sycamore Classic this weekend. Ball State, Wisconsin Green-Bay, and host Indiana State will also partici­pate. 
Notre Dame hopes to bounce back from a disappointing home-opener on Tuesday. Bowling Green swept them 3-0 and 1-0 (in nine innings). 
Right-fielder Sara Hayes, a freshman from South Pasadena, is swinging a hot bat while supplying power in the leadoff spot. Sophomore sec­ond-baseman Christy Connoyer and outfielder-pitcher Carrie Miller have continued to make solid contact. 
But as a whole, the Irish of­fense showed few signs of life and could resort to more ag­gressive base-running and sac­rifice hits to manufacture runs. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame's pitching staff remains steady behind senior Missy Linn, junior Staci Alford and Carrie Miller. 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

So far in 1992, the Irish are perfect in the Midwest. 
"Ohio State is another one of those Midwest teams that we've just got to go out and beat," said Notre Dame number-two Andy Zurcher, ranked 32nd in the nation. "We've got to take care of business and not take them lightly." 
Ohio State will be gunning for the Irish like North Carolina was a week ago. Four days after the release of last week's Volvo Collegiate Tennis Rankings, Notre Dame traveled to Chapel Hill, N.C. to face the Tar heels. 
In the doubles half of last weekend's event, the Tarheels knocked off both of Notre Dame's ranked doubles teams, as the David DiLucia-Chuck Coleman and Zurcher-Will Forsyth tandems fell in three sets. The wins gave UNC a 5-4 dual-match victory. 
"The (number-five) ranking definitely makes it a little tougher," said Zurcher. "It's a tough position to be in, but you are playing to reach it." 
With the temperatures taking a nosedive in the greater 

The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Chris Wojtalik prepares to blast a serve in the Rolex National Indoor tourmament. Tomorrow he will try to do the same against Ohio State. 
Michiana area this weekend, weeks. the Ohio State matchup will "We've been outside some this likely be moved inside to the season," said Zurcher. "But Eck from Courtney Tennis we've really played the last four Center. But Notre Dame has months inside, so it shouldn't be been playing outdoors for two a problem." 
.---------------------------~ 
-Chinese -American 
_ib,; -~ QRFAT Restau~ant & 
~ At Cocktatl Lounge 
\\'ni-L Authen~cSzcchuan, .. 
Mandartn & Hunan Cu1sme Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $3.95 Voted Best
Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 
Oriental Restaurant 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Mkhiana by

130 Dixie WayS., South Bend 
Michiana Now 

(next to Randall's Inn) 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available for any of the following afternoons: 
Monday through Thursday 
To apply, contact Colleen Knight at 239-7471. 
Callt-800.::FINDS NU for acatalog today. Northwestern University SummerSession'92 
-

Friday, March 20,1992 The Observer page 17 
should be enough to get a ticket sources on expansion than on to a game. Granted, people the missions in Bangladesh or
Macklin leads SMC track Stadium ·" 
have jobs and other commit­on Wednesday lunch fast. ments and might only be able to Whether greed wins the day
continued from page 20 

come to South Bend on certain is to be announcljd.
into Wabash Invitational 
After going in hock $200 and dates. But does this justify the ••• 

some million to construct a

By CHRIS BACON dosing with a fourth. }l deflowering of Notre Dame And now, a song. Apologies to 
domed stadium, Holtz retires.

Sports Writer jump pfJ4'l11/4", Stadium? Bob Dylan.
Notre Dame hires Jimmy 

No. "There must be some way out
MollY··.·••f'9~~Y itu Johnson to succeed Holtz, and 

of here," said the banker to theThe Saint Mary's track team another spUd perform .. 
the Irish falter. After one or two 

The risks are simply too priest. "There's too much
leaps into the outdoor season the Belles at Saginaw; sub-par seasons, and several 
great. Aside from the serious alumni every year, who can't
this Saturday at the Wabash establishing two Saint camouflage-plane departures, 
chance of financial disaster in a get seats in here. SMC studentsPolar Bear Meet. records. Foli:!Jiran the·.·••··......·• illi''' the alumni checkbooks dry up. sluggish and downward spiral­they watch our team, NBC Competing in the meet with a timeu!.5:l7.()l~iShe•.setthe····. Interest payments are missed 
ing economy, aesthetics also shows our games. Pay-per-viewSaint Mary's are Vincennes previous 1500. record at the and a hiring freeze is declared 
play a role. The current sta­almost came through imagine
in the College of Engineering.

College, Franklin College. l]nivet~ity ofChi(}agQ · dium-designed by the same what we're worth." 
university

'Hanover College , Albion last Sittfirday With . ·.·.... The fate of a architects who designed Yankee 
should not be mortgaged on

College, Elmhurst Colleg§, 5:22. Foley also set thelOOO Stadium, the Polo Grounds and "No reason to get excited,"
greed, but expansion or a new

Danville Junior College and record ~th a time .of3:2 Comiskey Park-is aesthetically the priest, he kindly spoke.
stadium could amount to just

Wabash. This marked tlre i:fb-st head and shoulders above the "There are many here among
that. If there is no potential for 

wooden roller-coaster look of us who feel Rockne's dreamLast year, Sandy Macklin that a Saintl\ifa:ry's 
such a disaster, and the Notre expansion decks and offers the would be broke. But you and I,earned the team's Golden competed i:p. the 1000. 

Dame coffers are indeed piled 

advantage of natural grass we've been through that, and
Spike award for her "There. WIO\J:~ a Jot ~f to the sky, then why the recent when compared to a see it's time to grow. So let'sperformance and personaJ·be?ts and alot••gf hiring freeze in the College of 
Plastidome. expand the stadium now, thesportsmanship at the Wabash season bests;~' Belles coach Arts and Letters? 
The bottom line, however, is students will be on break." 
InvitationaL Larry Sz¢zechowski sai~iof Third, the figures cited as greed. All along the stadium, ushers Macklin also led· the Belles the Saginaw meet. justifying the need for either The greed of those who sim­kept the view, while all the stu­expansion or a new facility are
in their final indoor meet at Darcy ·BishQP sprinted into ply must come to the game they dents came and went, rich 
flimsy. Of those alumni request­

Saginaw Valley. She broke the finals ofthe 55 although want to come to, instead of be­alumni, too. Outside in the dis­
ing tickets, nine out of ten get

the long jump record, she came up short in the 1'\i)d, ing satisfied with coming to tance, a state trooper did growl. previously held by senior Lynn She-qualified with a tiine (){ at least one ticket to one game. some game, and the greed of Two scalpers were ap­
On the other hand, approxi­

Pfeffer, with a jump of 15' 5 7.78 seconds.. Her finalthne those who stand to hoist their proaching, the crowd began to 
mately 50 percent do not get 

names above the entranceways howl.
1/2 ". was 7.3& seconds. " tickets for the game they ask to a new dome. Adapted from "All Along thePfeffer's record of 14' 10 1/2 ..To be the only •Division Ill. 
for. In other words, Michael P. 

The greed of those who see Watchtower," written by Bob
" was set last season at the sprinter to ~~ke it to thf 
Domer '57 might get a pair of ticket and concession revenues Dylan. Copyright 1968 Warner

North Central College finals is> rewarding;'' 
Indiana tickets when he was 

climbing skyward. The greed of Bros., Inc. (ASCAP) except for
Invitational. Pfeffer also szczecb.owski····~iplaip.ed.·.· s~;.. 
hoping for Southern Cal. 

those who would rather invest U.S. and Canada, Dwarf Musicturned in another fine mow.she WoJll(llike•tp b~y~ t Hearts break. 
already scarce financial re-(ASCAP).
placed.:-·· 
All in all, it seems that itperformance at Saginaw! 

·····:·:·:<:::;:;::.;:::..:.::·: 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
Verduzco (LF), junior Eric Danapolis (HF), and junior Dan Bautch or freshman Paul Failla (CF) will be in the outfield. 
The seniors have continued to impress people this year with their play and leadership. 
"Mee has been so consistent, quietly consistent for us. You look up and he is always on 
, base. You always want the ball to be hit to him," said Murphy. "Counsell and Binkiewicz per­form day in and day out," said Murphy. "Craig is steady and under control. Bink has gotten the big hits for us. He's the emotional leader of the team." 
On the other end of the spec­trum are the freshmen. Several have already started to make significant contributions. Lisanti is hitting .211 with 2 RBis. Birk 1[.308, 1 RBI) was 4 for 10 in the College Baseball Classic last weekend, driving in four runs. Failla (.205, 2 RBis) hit a towering left-handed home run in the Kingdome last weekend. DeSensi (.133, 3 RBis) has already provided Notre Dame with two game-· winning RBis in the opening games of the season. Verduzco is the speedster in the group, having already stolen four bases in five attempts. 
"Some people have called him (Failla) 'the Natural.' He walked in and can do it; he's got a really bright future," said Murphy. "Bob Lisanti has been very solld behind the plate." 
Notre Dame comes into the matchup after winning 3 of 4 games at both the College Baseball Classic at the Kingdome and the Big Four Classic in Louisville over break. Arizona · State played the -·· University of San Diego earlier this week and split a two-game series. So far this year, six of the Sun Devils' seven losses have come against nationally­ranked teams. Texas beat them twice and Stanford and USC claimed one victory apiece. 

page 18 The Observer Friday, March 20,1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•sports 
Briefs are excepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third lloor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, your brief, your telephone number, and the dates the brief id to run. 

•cheerleading 
tryouts will be held this Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. in the basketball arena of the JACC. 

•sports 
Writers are needed to cover Saint Mary's sports. Anyone interested should contact Saint Mary's sports _editor Nicole McGrath at the Observer office or at 284~5415. 

•Mixed 
doubles tennis mixer at Eck Tennis Pavillion on Monday nights. Sign up in the Rec Sports or call 239-6100 before Friday noon. Pairings will be displayed at Eck and play begins at 9 p.m. This is not a tournament. 

•32-team 
campus soccer tournament registration deadline has been extended. Entries will be accepted until Friday at the Rec Sports office in the JACC. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball teams that are interested in playing against the Hall of Fame team should submit their proposals to the secretary in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune no later than Wednesday, March 25. 

•women's 
Bookstore Basketball signups will be held Thursday. March 26, from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune and the lobby of Haggar Hall (SMC). The entry fee is $5 per team. Call Eileen of Tracy (x1093) for questions and revised eligibility rules. 


.,.he Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to rt~pairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon-Fri from 7 am to 4 pm and Sat-Sun from 1 pm to 10:30 pm. 
•Notre Dame Rugby has a home match against Purdue on this Saturday on the Colonel John Stephens Pitch located behind Stephen Center. The A-side game starts at noon, the B­side game starts at 1:30pm. and the C-side game at 3 pro. Both players and fans are asked to bring S.A.C.S. 
.,.he SMC softball game this weekend against Butler has been cancelled due to inclement weather. Saturday's game at Albion has been tentatively postponed. Both games will be rescheduled soon. 
•The Notre Dame men's volleyball team defeated Wheaton College, 15-9, 15"5. 12-15, 15-6. They will be in aetion again tonight when they visit the University of Cincinnati. 
tv1ed ici Jtle fAT"(R of .. -Mah theBRID( 
IPG·Ill Daily 5:00 7:15 9:15 llaily 5:15 7:30 9:30 Sat/Sun 2:00 5:1Ml 7:15 9:15 Sat/Sun 1:30 3:45 :15 7:30 9:30 
Tvw~ c\ tvu~tE~, $3.50 
All Shows 
----"""""
2340 N. Hickory Rd. • 259-9090 Before 6 pm 
MY COUSIN 

VINNY BASIC 
Tu.,s-fri 4:45 7:15 9:45 
Sat/Sun!Mon 2:00 4:45 7:15 9:45 
fNSTINCT
WAYNESVOLD 
MICHAEL
You'll laugh. You'll cpy_You'll hUPl If'(: ui DOUGLAS 
TUI!S·fri 5:00 7:30 10:00 Tues-Frl 4:30 7:00 9:30 Sat/Sun!Mon 12:30 3:45 5:00 7:30 10:00 Sat/Sun/Men I :30 4:30 7:00 9:30 
~************************************** 
• FRESHMEN! SOPHOMORES! 
lt .lllta It Latiere Sivdent 61Civlaory CounCil : encll the College ol Arie " n•••-..,. lti'IIMnt:
.. 
i MEET YOUR MAJOR 
: MARCH 23-26, 1992 
: Monday. March 23 lt 4·3Q-5·30 p m
lf-. . . . lt 
Jt
..
..._ 7:00·8:00 p.m. 
; lt Tuudov March 24 
lf­

_:..­
..._ 4:30·5:30 p.m. :::: 
.. :::: ~ 
Jt 7:00-8:00 p.m.Jt 
lt 
Jt Wednesday March 25
.. 
lt 4:30-5:30 p.m. lt 

--
Jt 
lt 7:00-8:00 p m : 26 : Thursday March
lt 4:30-5:30 p.m 
7 : :00·BOOp.m 
.. 
American Studies 116 O'Shag Music 122 Crowley German & Russian 118 O'Shag Romance languages 117 O'Shag 
English 117 Haggar 
Theology 115 O'Shag 
ALPP 115 O'Shag AE 116 O'Shag Medieval Studies 118 O'Shag Sociology 117 O'Shag 
Economics 118 O'Shag GOTH loft, O'Shag 
Philosophy 1150'Shag 
African American Studies 345 O'Shag Classical & Oriental lang. 118 O'Shag Education (ND-SMC) 120 O'Shag 
History 118 O'Shag An, An History & Design 200 Riley 
Psychology 119 Haggar 

~~t~~~~~~ ~~~~?J~!~Heaty : CHARGE BY PHONE: 219-272-7979 aster ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~ 
: 
lt 
Jt 
.. 
i 
: 
: 
lf­
lt lt ]f. 
lt.. 
]f. ~~ ~:;:;::::;:;:;:::
lf-1 ..
Jt 
]f.]f. 
..
Jt 

Jt SDAY APRIL 16 7 30
lt 

.. * THUR J : pm 
lt Jt J A C C
lt 

oyce • • • 
lt 

: Tickets available at all Ticketmaster outlets including : L.S.Ayres and the University of Notre Dame TMet
Jt ___ 
Five athletes travel to Fla. St. Relays 
By JOSEF EVANS 
Sports Writer 

After finishing an indoor campaign which coach Joseph Piane described as having gone "very well," the Notre Dame men's and women's track teams are beginning their second season by sending five athletes to the outdoor meet this weekend at the Florida State Relays in Tallahassee. 
The men's squad will be sending four of those athletes, with senior Ryan Mihalko (javelin), sophomores Jon Smerek (discus) and Dean Lytle (100 and 200 meters). and freshman Lee Becton (triple jump) all making the trip. 
The lone representative on the women's side will be promising freshman Lisa Junek (100 meter hurdles). 
Most of the runners are excited at the prospect of outdoor competition. 
"We're really anxious to compete," said Mihalko, but he conceded that the warmer eli· mate and outdoor competition might be a problem, since the cold South Bend weather has meant "there's been no oppor­tunity to throw (the javelin) outside." 
Becton, however. is hoping the warm Florida sun will aid his performance. 
"The weather might help me warm up my legs a little more 
I .. '"-·-.. 

... ~-=~ 
Ryan Mihalko 

and hopefully, that will mean a better jump." 
The Irish will be at some disadvantage, however, since most of the competing schools are from the south and have been practicing outdoors for quite a while. Among those Notre Dame will face are North Carolina. South Carolina, and the host school, Florida State. 
"It's a very well-attended meet." noted Piane in sizing up the competition. Indeed, over 1400 athletes will com­pete. making the task at hand all the more formidable. 
The Irish athletes are opti­mistic about the relays, how­ever, and are hoping they can build on their performance this weekend. 
"It's a great opportunity for us to start the (outdoor) season off on the right foot," said Mihalko, a~ding that he hoped it would be a "stepping stone" for improved performance in the weeks ahead. 

Classes held in JACC, Rolfs, and Campus &ring own equipment if possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
: Please attend these short ln1ormatlonal sasslons about the majors that : Interest you! Open to all .tudents. ]f. 
-~************************************* 



By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 

The year was 1972. Notre Dame-a one-time bastion of Catholic masculinity-became a coeducational institution. 
People had talked about it for years and signs began to show in the early 1960s. A co-ex­change program with Saint Mary's College was instituted in 1965, allowing students from both schools to sample academic offerings. 
Plans for a merger with Saint Mary's looked promising. During the 1970-71 academic year, administrators from both institutions examined the possibilities. In May of 1971, the trustees of both schools gave the merger a green light. 
But something went awry in the fall of 1971. Financial problems seemed to hamper the merger, and the question of whether to institute a unified budget plagued members of the Notr.e Dame and Saint Mary's Inter-Institutional Team. 
The logistics of the merger were also an issue, as administrators had trouble deciding which programs would be housed on which campus. 
An official announcement terminating unification plans came Nov. 30, 1971. Officials from both schools cited financial and administrative problems as the chief obstacles to the merger. 
The immediate reaction on both campuses was shock and anger. A group of 1,300 students, many from Saint Mary's, boycotted classes. Demonstrators from both schools worked to 
Revolution Years 

pressure the schools into changing their minds. 
But the decision to halt the merger did not squelch Notre Dame's interest in bringing women to campus, it merely changed the way they would be admitted. 
Included in the termination statement was the University's decision to admit women in the fall of 1972. Officials said the move would make Notre Dame "more humanized" because "an all male institution is totally unrealistic." 
Notre Dame enrolled 365 females that year, 125 of them freshmen. Of the 365, 211 were transfers from Saint Mary's. 
The presence of women at an historically all­male school brought immediate change to Notre Dame, both structurally and emotionally. 
Walsh and Badin Halls were converted into women's residence halls at a cost of almost $150,000. Washing machines and dryers were installed. An ironing room was designated. 
Full-length mirrors were placed in each of the newly-painted pastel rooms. Female security guards were hired and card-lock systems were implemented to protect the new students. 
In the bookstore, feminine items were stocked for the first time. Even the infirmiry was renovated to accommodate the new students, although requests to hire a gynecologist were denied. • 
Women at Notre Dame experienced more than a culture shock. Their arrival coincided with the 
see WOMEN page 3 

150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
page 2 
Days of revolution 
By Father Theodore Hesburgh 
University President Emeritus 
When students today hear of the Student 
Revolution of the late 1960s and early 1970s, they 
think of that period as the middle ages. After all, 
many of today's students were not even born when 
the turmoil on campuses was happening. 
What makes the Student Revolution unusual is that 

since Harvard, and the beginning of higher 
education in America, was founded in 1636, there 
had nnver been a nationwide student revolution. 
When the presidents of U.S. higher educational 

institutions met annually with the Latin American 
Univnrsity presidents, we used to chide them on 
their never-ending student strikes and revolutionary 
movements. 
In our pride and arrogance, we were certain that it 

could never happen here. It did. 
In the late 1960s the pot began to boil: first in 

Berkeley, Calif .. then Columbia University across the 
country in New York, then in the middle at Chicago 
University. It was a startling case of spontaneous 
combustion. Once started there was not stopping it 
until it had burned itself out. 
President Johnson was convinced that it was a 

Communist plot and turned the F.B.I. loose on the 
campuses to prove the case. They found zero 
evidence for any Communist plot. 
Then how to explain the sudden student riot all 

across the land at colleges and universities? Rather 
simply. There was nationwide student unrest, 
present and growing. All it needed was a flash point. 
The Free Speech movement with a charismatic 

student leader Mario Savio at Berkely provided that. 
After Savio, all that was needed was the TV 

evening news fueling the fire that led one university 
student group to outdo in demands, trashing, 
violence and vulgarity. Tomorrow night Harvard 
would provide the show, then Yale, then Cornell. 
What were the students upset about? Initially the great civil rights agony of those years, poverty in the midst of affluence, mainly the Vietnam War for whieh they might be drafted if they dropped out of school or graduated. 
These broad and nationwide concerns were heightened by many local concerns-relevance of the required curricular subjects. discipline on campus and many others. 
Never before had younger people felt so passionately about national issues. It might be said that in the case of the Vietnam War, for the first time in our history. the young changed the minds of their elders-but only after 50,000 young people had died, disproportionately poor non-college-bound whites, llispanics and blacks. 
Practically every college and university president I knew lost their jobs or resigned or died. Courtney Smith, President at Swarthmore, dropped dead during a student protest. 
None of us had ever encountered a situation like this before. Students took over the President's Office at Columbia, read his confidential mail, drank his sherry, smoked his cigars, generally trashed his office for a week and before leaving, defecated on his Persian rug. 
It was like cultured people suddenly facing a barbarian invasion. One day we had building burning simultaneously at Michigan State and Northwestern. 
How did a few of us survive? First. by recognizing that many of the concerns were legitimate: Vietnam, civil rights. poverty. 
Protests were also legitimate as long as they were non-violent, civil and not disruptive of the educational work of the university. Also, we were available for questioning and discussion day and night (mostly night, or rather, the wee hours of the morning). 
By and large we had at Notre Dame all the main happenings that were more or less nationwide. 
As on every campus, we had very sincere and dedicated student-leaders and our quota of crazies who specialized in vulgarity, violence and rowdy behavior. By and large they were contained by the more serious leaders. 
There was also a deeper religious dimension to the revolution at Notre Dame. If a few dozen draft cards were to be burned, it would most likely happen at the Offertory of a Quad Mass with 2,000 or more students present. 
The revolution stopped suddenly and inexplicably at the beginning of a school year in the early 1970s. 

By JOHN ROCK 
Managing Editor 
Responding to an alarming increase in campus desmon­strations in the 1968-69 school year, then Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh formulated a University policy on protest activities and their limitations. 
While Hesburgh was in favor of students, faculty and staff voicing their opinions in non-violent settings, he cited a need to control demonstrations as the cause for the policy. Vio­lence, he said, repels "everything that the University community stands for" and would not be tolerated. 
Hesburgh explained how demonstrations and protests would be handled in an eight-page letter to the University community Feb. 
17, 1969. 
Incidents like the Dow-CIA demonstration and the pornography conference a week earlier gave Hesburgh a reason to believe events could get out of hand at Notre Dame. 
"If someone invades your home, do you dialogue with him or call the law? Without the law. the University is a sitting duck for any small group from outside or inside that wishes to destroy it, to incapacitate it, to terrorize it at whim....without the law you may well lose the University." 
The policy targeted any indi­vidual or group that "substitutes force for rational persuasion. be it violent or non-violent." He addressed the policy to students, faculty and staff. a sign that young people were not the only group participating in the demonstrations. 
According to the letter, any group interrupting University 

business or abusing the civil rights of others "will be given fifteen minutes of meditation to cease and desist. They will be told that they are, by their actions, going counter to the overwhelming conviction of this community as to what is proper here." 
The decision on whether Uni­versity operations were violated would be made by the Dean of Students. Student violations were to be handled by a disciplinary board, while faculty would be dealt expelled and five students were suspended. Victim to Hesburgh's "Fifteen-Minute Rule," these students were referred to and went down in history as the "Notre Dame Ten." 
Still, the policy made certain not to target and punish only students. "Only after three clear opportunities to remain in student status, if they insist on resisting the will of the community, are they then expelled." 
"There seems to be current myth that University members are not responsible to the law, and that somehow the law is the enemy," he continued. 
Hesburgh claimed to have "practically unanimous" sup­port for his policy from the Academic Council, the Faculty Senate, the Student Life Coun­cil, some College councils and the Alumni Board. 
Student response to Hesburgh 's policy was not so favorable. In an Observer editorial, 

concern was expressed that the policy's intent was not achievable. 
"Demonstrators and the cir­cumstances surrounding them are loosely structured and it is rarely possible to apply a set of time limits such as 15 and 20 minutes for suspension and expulsion." 
The necessity of respecting all members of the Notre Dame community's rights was at the heart of the "Fifteen-Minute Rule." To Hesburgh, the right to vocalize concern was a right that might be monitored, but not controlled. 
And far from wanting to stem social concern, he initiated a non­violence program dedicated for students to study alternatives for effecting peaceful social change. 
Monica Yant contributed to this story. 

with by the procedures in the Faculty Manual. 
The letter alerted demonstrators to the repercussions for their actions. 
"If students do not desist. they will be asked for their identification cards and suspended from school. If they do not produce student identification, they will be assumed not to be members of the community and be charged with trespassing and disturbing the peace on private property." 
Hesburgh assured all demon­strators that pushing the limits too far would result in stiff penalties. 
"If five minutes after notification of suspension, students still do not cease his actions, they will be notified of expulsion from the University and the law will then deal with them as non-students." 
In 1969, five students were 
There were a few lasting results which some of us survivors helped achieve: the termination of the draft, and the beginning of an All Volunteer Armed Forces; voting for 18-year-olds; and total amnesty for all students who had fled to Canada to escape the draft and were then liable to felony charges if they attempted to return to the U.S. 
As the Chinese wisely say with tongue in cheek: may you live in interesting times. 
Editor's Note: 

This special section is the seventh in a series examining student life at Notre Dame throughout its 150-year history. Special thanks are given to Jennifer Webber, Charles Lamb and the staff at University Archives. Without their assistance, this project would not been possible. The research done by Thomas J. Schlereth, professor of American Studies, was also beneficial. 
Monica Yant served as the editor of this section, John Rock contributed, and Jeanne Blasi handled design and layout. Special thanks also goes to University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh for his contribution. All photos are courtesy of University of Notre Dame Archives. 
150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
Friday, March 20, 1992 page 3 
Campus protests abundant, students seek peace 
CIA, ROTC, Vietnam targets of demonstrations 
By JOHN ROCK had recently returned from the war, Managing Editor spoke of the carnage wrought on the Vietnamese. He asked the students to 
Wounds are not healed by protest; worry about the troops in Vietnam, and service to suffering is not rendered by asked that they write to soldiers over­rhetoric. Maybe peace can begin only seas. when a generation of students called to The protest ended solemnly in a bayonets declares an armistice to plant "march for peace." Three abreast, the roses in an earth that is in need of students marched down the main quad gardens.-Fr. Robert Griffin (The to the ROTC building (now the Security Observer, May 6, 1971) building). At its greatest point, the line 
Protests and counter-protests were extended from the middle of the quad synonymous with college campuses to the Rockne Memorial. during the late 1960s and early 1970s, At the ROTC building, 16 students 
and Notre Dame was no exception. from both colleges placed 16 crosses on This quiet, little campus in South Bend the lawn opposite it, one for each the actually was alive with NO men and Notre Dame men killed in the war. 
Saint Mary's women debating contro­With faces filled with sorrow, students versies such as the Vietnam war, race planted each cross in the ground to a and gender issues. lone bugler playing Taps. 
The first major student unrest at Student Strike Notre Dame began with an anti­At an anti-war rally on May 4, 1970, Vietnam teach-in held in 1965. Various then Notre Dame Student Body student groups followed suit, forming President Dave Krashna called for a 
"student power" platforms with student strike. He recommended a two­agendas ranging from changing day general boycott of classes in 
University disciplinary regulations response to President Richard Nixon's and parietal restrictions to the presence orders to invade Cambodia. of ROTC, a lack of minority faculty Hesburgh appeared against the idea, representation, and U.S. policy telling the students that education was Vietnam. crucial for leadership. "We are living in Dow Chemical protest an age of midgets, I want you to be 
More than 200 students and faculty giants," he told the assembly. gathered at the Administration Building Notre Dame's administration reacted on Feb. 8, 1968 to protest the Dow by suspending classes for two days in Chemical Co. Dow was the U.S. mili­order to give the students time for tary's primary supplier of napalm, the speeches, sit-ins, and liturgical celebra­jelly-like petroleum-based weapon used tions. The time was meant as a time of in Vietnam, and was holding re­moral reflection and enlightenment for cruitment meetings on campus. the campus. 
This protest marked the first Krashna later said that student 
-
"radical" demonstration allowed inside government was committed to an a University building. At 12:45 p.m., 70 indefinite strike. In fact, at another students gathered beneath the dome in rally Krashna held a student body the Administration Building. referendum on whether to continue the 
Father James Riehle, then dean of strike until the May 15, to end it, or to students, informed the students that vote on the date later. they had to leave the building. He as­In a 1,307-250 vote, the students 
sured them the protest could continue vowed to continue their strike; almost outside, but that they were trespassing 1,100 wanted to decide at a later date. in a place of business and private After students requested amnesty for property where they had no legal right. the missed class days, the Academic 
Before they had time to act, a second was not even considered. but expressed concern that the students Council responded by voting to extend group of students entered the building. Using the precedent set in the Dow may have "used their freedom of action excused absences to the students from Quick negotiations between Riehle and protest eight months earlier, the to obstruct the freedom of others and May 4 through May 11 with permission student-leader Brian McTigue allowed students moved into the Administration impose their own personal convictions to make up their work. the students to stay, but required them Building. Sitting and lying students on others." Peace Observance to keep open aisles and to maintain si­blockaded the doors of the Placements Vietnam War Moratorium The Joyce Athletic and Convocation lence. Office and kept the CIA representative On Oct. 15, 1969, over 2,000 Notre Center (J.A.C.C.) was the site of a Jan. 
For two hours, the students sat in and at bay for three hours. Dame and Saint Mary's students took 28, 1973 "Peace Observance" for the around the building and some made Students who did not take part in this part in a nationwide moratorium end of the Vietnam War. A wave of impromptu speeches. lie-in blocking the recruiter chose to against the Vietnam War. 4,000 students and faculty covered the 
The Dow representative was neither display their opposition by singing Students gathered out on the main J.A.C.C. floor. seen nor heard from by the protest songs on the second floor. quad for a day of speeches and singing Father James Burtchaell, organizer of ... demonstrators, and shortly before 3 Then University President Father anti-war songs. Several speakers en­the observance, gave the Mass p.m., the group walked to the library Theodore Hesburgh was out of town couraged the burning of draft cards. invocation. "The day is proud with auditorium for several more speeches. and Executive Vice President Edmund Karen Weller of Saint Mary's honor, yet uneasy with distrust. We are CIA lie-in Joyce could not be reached. Riehle was addressed the crowd at an open quit of the war, yet we know that our 
Later that year, during the week of available, but unable to clear out the microphone. She outlined the changing hearts are never quit of the hostilities Nov. 18, 1968, Notre Dame and Saint students. roles of women in war, indicating it no that breed war," he said Mary's students again organized a Students refused to move until the longer took men to fight and that while In his sermon, Hesburgh bluntly protest to block campus recruitment ef­recruiter agreed to answer their some women were losing their lives in observed "There is really nothing to forts of Dow, and this time the Central questions. Riehle told the students that Vietnam, others were losing their sons. celebrate-no real victory for anyone, Intelligence Agency. the recruiter was not allowed to make One counter-protestor displayed a no certain peace for anyone. For a ­
Particular effort was given to blocking any public statement for the CIA and poster reading "Bomb the Cong." moment, the guns are silent." CIA efforts after a bill preventing the that after conferring with his superiors Former Hungarian Freedom Fighter recruitments was defeated in the in Washington, D.C., he decided to leave Joseph Szalay criticized the students, Hesburgh suggested that students Student Senate. Then Student Body campus. telling them they had no idea what it become the mediators of peace and the President Richard Rossie had even When Hesburgh returned to campus, was like to live under a Communist peace process. "Peace and justice must walked out on an earlier special Senate he issued a statement in a letter which Regime. become micro-virtues that touch you meeting in which the bill to bar the CIA upheld the right of the demonstrators, Graduate student Tom Conneley, who lives,".he said. 

Women 
continued from page 1 
growth of the women's movement. Female students pressed for greater concern for women's issues and and the need for equality among the sexes. 
The integration process went relatively smoothly. By 197 5, the undergraduate student body had a ratio of four men to every woman, up from 17:1 in 1972. In 1976, the first 125 women undergraduates re­
ceived diplomas from Notre Dame. 
Gradually, more residence halls were designated for women and a greater presence of women in academic and so­cial settings was thought to have improved relations. 
But the status of women at the University was ~till being examined in a critical light as the 1980s approached. 
An April 1982 special an­niversary section in The Ob­server, "Women at Notre Dame," looked into the progress made by coeducation over 10 years. 
Complaints that lack of so­cial space inhibited relations between the sexes were preva­lent, as were comments that students at Notre Dame were still unsure of how to interact. 
Women were uncomfortable with the idea of asking men on dates, while male students fought to understand the con­cept of male-female friend­ships. 
Segregation in the dining halls, at popular bars and in classrooms was still a norm, further stifling relations. 
Even in 1982, with an under­graduate population of almost 2,000 women, both sexes still suffered from tension, and often resentment. 

"Before women were admit­ted, Notre Dame was known as a male bastion. Now, with women getting into the spot­light, competing in all areas, the men feel they have to be more macho," said Father John Van Wolvlear, then vice­president for Student Affairs. 
Female students at Notre Dame struggled to break the mold and fight stereotypes. Be­yond the problems on their own campus, the female minority continued to suffer 
-· 
from strained relations with women at Saint Mary's. 
"It strikes me that that there's this 'woman against woman' thing. It's about damn time we started pulling to­gether," said 1982 Saint Mary's Student Body President Eileen Murphy. 
Notre Dame females agreed. "People characterize the typical 'SMC chick' based on a minority and assume it fits all Saint Mary's students. And this in turn fuels the fire so the stereotypes continue," said one student. 
150 YEARS of Notre Dame 
page 4 Friday, March 20, 1992 

n
-
'··· 
Ask (demand) and you 
•

shall receIVe 
Cap'n Crunch comes to campus after mini-revolution 
-
By MONICA YANT 
Editor-in-Chief 
While Notre Dame students spent much of their time in the 1960s and 1970s demonstrating against the Vietnam War and HOTC, issues became a bit lighter­and tastier-in 1983. 
That's when the Cap'n Crunch saga came to an end. Student demands for the cereal in the dining halls led to demonstrations and a sit-in which brought the Captain to Notre Dame once and for all. 
The Cap'n Crunch story, al­beit comical, shows how stu­dent life in the early 1980s took a turn for the lighter. 
One ticket for sophomore class office in the spring of 1973 ran on a platform that 
included a Cap'n Crunch party. 
After the ticket won and realized how much the event would cost, the officers took 
. their cause to the top. A letter 
·requesting assistance from Quaker Oats netted favorable response from company officials who saw the idea as having great public relations potential. 
Soon plans were underway for "Cap'n Crunch Week" to take place the following fall before the Notre Dame-USC football game. 
The company's original plans included a farewell display with Cap'n Crunch parading inside the football stadium in a boat-shaped float. University officials quietly nixed the overly commercial idea but approved the first-ever corporate-spon­sored event. 

The week-long celebration sponsored by the sophomore class took place Oct. 17-21, 1983. Specially designed ND­Cap'n Crunch t-shirts, free trips to Florida and an eating contest were among the activities. 
The shirts and trips were given away during campus­wide treasure hunts, for certificates and a treasure chest. 
A trip to any away Notre Dame basketball game was awarded to the winner of the eating contest, and a trip to the Penn State football game was given by the Cap'n Crunch costume contest winner. 
The Captain himself was on campus for the week, making appearances at hospitals and charities, as well as the pep rally. 
Although there was concern about students over-indulging on the snacky cereal at a time when world hunger was prevalent, Quaker Oats quelled fears by donating $1,000 worth of food to charity and the sophomore class matched the figure with a cash donation. 
Still, the lack of emphasis on the charitable side of the spec­tacle on the part of the national press ruffled some feathers at Notre Dame. 
The Wall Street Journal barely mentioned the charity factor, instead focusing on the week as the result of "a sit­down strike" after which stu­dents "won their demand: an unimpeded supply of Cap'n Crunch, their favorite cereal." 
The Associated Press also jumped upon the student ac­tivist bandwagon, claiming that the festival was due to campus-wide unrest and striking. 
Some students opposed the week entirely, saying that none of the donated money and products would have been included without pressure from the University, and that the students were giving out of obligation and not from the heart. 
"In yielding to peer pressure, someone used poor judgment, the University was embarrassed, and the national media exploited the story," wrote one student in The Observer. 
Nonetheless, the week came and went. And Cap'n Crunch stayed. 
1992 ~C_A__A_ 

A Supplement to The Observer 
Friday, March 20, 1992 


Notre Dame plays host to NCAAs 
Irish have chance at overall team championship 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
Fencing's version of March Madness comes to the Joyce ACC Fieldhouse this weekend as Notre Dame plays host to the NCAA Fencing Championships for the seventh time. 
The NCAA Championships, which begin today, consist of individual competitions in men's and women's foil, men's sabre and men's epee. There are also team titles in each of these weapons, as well as a single overall team championship. 
Eight schools will compete in each of the men's weapons and 12 will take part in the women's foil. Points will be awarded based on a team's performance. The school which earns the greatest number of points from all four weapons· will be crowned as the NCAA Champions. 
Men's matches match three fencers from one school against three from the other. Each fencer must fence all the fencers from the opposing school, for a total of nine bouts. When one schools captures five bouts, the match is over. 
The women's matches are structured similarly, except four fencers, rather than three, compete for each school. 
In the individual champi-

Mike DeCicco 
onships, fencers compete in elimination pools to advance to a round of 16. The four fencers who win their first two bouts advance directly to the final eight. The other 12 enter a loser's bracket, with four ulti­mately advancing to the final eight, which is direct elimina­tion. 
From the round of 16 to the fmals, the fencer must win two out of three five-touch bouts to advance. 
There are four former cham­pions competing in the individ­ual events at this year's NCAAs. 
In the women's individual foil, Notre Dame's Heidi Piper will attempt to defend her title, but to do so she will have to do so in a field which contains Columbia's Ann Marsh, Penn State's Olga Chernyak and UC­Santa Cruz's Larissa Lehmkuhl, last year's third, fourth and fifth place finishers respectively. 
"With four of the top five fin­ishers from last year returning, the women's foil is the hardest weapon to predict," Notre Dame women's fencing coach Yves Auriol stated. "It seems that all of last year's top five finishers have an equal shot at the title." 
Nick Brevin, the 1990 foil champion from Stanford, is the favorite in men's individual foil. He could be challenged by James Borin of Yale, who placed third last year, and North Carolina's Lorin Thompson, who came in fourth in 1991. 
Notre Dame's top All­American candidate is Jeff Piper, Heidi's brother, who fin­ished 16th at last year's NCAAs. 
"This promises to be a hard­fought and exciting weapon," commented Irish men's coach Mike DeCicco. 
DeCicco feels that Penn State's Vitali Nazlimov should be able to successfully defend his national championship in individual sabre. Other con­tenders are Nazlimov's team­mate Tom Strzalkowski, Alex Dvorin of NYU and James Taliaferro and Ed Baguer of Notre Dame. 
In individual epee Columbia's Ben Adkins will attempt to be­come the first fencer since 1940 
see NCAA/page 3 

Piper seeks encore performance 
By RICH SZABO 
Associate Sports Editor 
When the Notre Dame fencing teams compete in the NCAA Championships this weekend, not only will they be looking to lay claim to the national titles, but one Irish fencer will be seeking her second consecutive crown. 
Senior capt!lin Heidi Piper will be looking to add one more title to a tremendous fencing resume when she competes this weekend, culminating the sto­rybook career of a fencer who made the most of a golden op­portunity. 
Piper began fencing at an early age, learning in classes offered at the local Police Citi­zens' Youth club in her native Australia. 
"My dad thought it was inter­esting, so my whole family did it for a long time. I've been fencing since I was nine," Piper explained. 
She was the captain of the Australian under-20 women's team from 1982-1987 and won the Epee Championship in 1987. The following year, she cap­tured the under-20 women's championship. That year was also when the Australian team traveled to the World Youth Championships, held at Notre Dame. 
"I came here in 1988 for the World Youth Championships with the Australian team. I stayed and went to school here and never went home," said Piper. 
"It took me a long time to get used to it (Notre Dame). My freshman year, I was really homesick. It's very different from the tropics," she com­mented. 
Not only has fencing brought her to Notre Dame, but it has taken her to other locales as well. Piper spent a month training in France in 1984 and participated in the world youth titles held in Russia that same year. 
"Fencing has been a really good vehicle for me for doing exciting things like coming to school here," Piper said. "That would never have happened, because Australia is socialized and all our education is free. I've had an opportunity that not many Australians get." 
Piper has compiled some truly amazing accomplishments in her four years with the Irish. As a freshman in 1989 she went 30-5, winning the championship in her first American competi­tion, the Penn State Open, and coming in 13th at the NCAA championships. 
To follow that up, she went see HEIDI/page 2 


page 2 Friday, March 20, 1992 
DeCicco and Auriol use experience to lead Notre Dame 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Over his impressive coaching career, Sports Writer DeCicco has turned out thirty Notre Dame All-Americans. DeCicco has also 
Head fencing coach Mike DeCicco had watched over the women's program from a vision over thirty years ago. His vision its creation in 1979 to 1985 when Auriol to raise Notre Dame fencing to a com­took over. petitive national level has been more As DeCicco's career winds down, he than realized. The students' joys of sees only one person as filling his place. competing and and representing their "When I step down, I hope Yves will school have become his reality. take over the entire program," DeCicco 
"The success (Notre Dame women's confidently said. coach Yves) Auriol and I enjoy comes "My objective is for the women's team from the sweat the kids are willing to to end up in the top four this year," said 
give to fencing as well as coaching". said Auriol. who is finishing up his seventh DeCicco. year as women's coach. He also serves as "I had no inkling that fencing would go assistant coach on men's foil and epee in this direction." squads. 
After thirty seasons as head coach, Auriol is 118-7 as women's head coach DeCicco has posted 29 winning years. and was 19-0 in 1991. He led the Ilis career record stands at 594-42. women's team to a 1987 NCAA 
Hailing from New Jersey, DeCicco championship in his second season. graduated from Notre Dame in 1949. His "The program is outstanding and we collegiate fencing career was marked by always compete to win," commented a 45-4 foil ledger which still ranks Auriol. second on Notre Dame's all-time foil Originally from France, Auriol 
winning percentage list. graduated from Lycee de Toulouse in 
He was coached by Walter Langford, a Toulouse, France in 1955. He went on to man DeCicco "respected more than earn a master's degree from the Institute anyone on Notre Dame's campus ever." National du Sport in Paris. 
DeCicco stayed at Notre Dame after Auriol arrived from France to graduation and began teaching in the Portland, Oregon in 1972 where he mechanical engineering department. At formed the Salle Auriol Fencing Club. He then coached women's fencing at coming to Notre Dame in 1986. Since main concern is to try to keep them calm 
the same time, he worked as Langford's assistant from 1950-1961. Portland State for 11 seasons, 1975-85. then he has become a core part of the for the matches. If he does so Auriol Auriol has served as coach for the fencing department. believes that his team has a good chance 
DeCicco took over as head coach in 

United States Olympic team in 1980, "I had to adjust from coaching club at the NCAAs.
1962 and has never looked back. He has 1984 and 1988, and he is currently level to coaching college level,"admitted By looking at the coaching success
led 10 teams to undefeated marks in­cluding the 1985-89 and 1991 squads. waiting to hear if he will be coaching in Auriol when talking about his arrival at DeCicco and Auriol and the talent on the Barcelona this summer. Notre Dame. Notre Dame roster, it appears that the
Currently the 1992 men's squad is 14-0 
"I stumbled upon him purely by As for the upcoming NCAA Irish should have more than a good
while the women's squad is 12-2. He has accident, word of mouth", claims Tournament, he says that the students chance this weekend's NCAA Fencingguided the 1977. 1978 and 1986 teams DeCicco. DeCicco coaxed Auriol into are beginning to feel the pressure. His Championships.
to NCAA championships. 
Foil features wide-open field 
Six fencers, including Jeff Piper, could challenge 
By JASON KELLY 16th place finish in last ye.ar's season. Sports Writer NCAA Championships. It will take total concentration This season, however, Piper on each bout for Piper to reach 
Only one thing is certain leaped into the team's number­the gold-medal round. If he about the foil competition in this one spot. With 1991 captain doesn't look past his early year's NCAA Fencing Phil Leary lost to graduation opponents, he· should be able to Championships-there are five and last year's number-one man make a strong run for the or six fencers who have a Noel Young competing for a spot championship. chance to capture the gold on the Australian national team. "One thing Jeff has to concen­medal. Piper took over the top spot. trate on is avoiding the big 
Stanford's Nick Bravin, the "Jeff has gone from being a upsets," DeCicco added. "In an 1990 gold medalist, leads a very good foilist to being the effort to get to the finals to stellar field in this year's number-one man on out team," fence someone like Schroeder championships. Mark Pavese of said Irish coach Mike DeCicco. he could be knocked off by a Columbia, James Borin of Yale ''I'm really pleased with his lesser opponent. If he can re­and Wayne State's Stefan progress." main focused on each bout, he's Schroeder are also champi­He has proven himself worthy going to be in contention for the onship-caliber foilists. of the number-one position with gold." 
Notre Dame's chances for a another impressive season. He With the quality of competi­gold medal in the foil rest heads into the NCAA tion Piper will face, it shouldn't squarely on the shoulders of championships boasting a 22-5 be hard for him to stay focused. junior captain Jeff Piper. regular-season record, and will He fenced well in the recent 
Piper is no stranger to top­be one of the favorites to cap­Midwest Collegiate Open and quality competition. He won the ture the title. the NC.AA Regional qualifier and Australia junior fencing title in "He knows how to pace him­his preparation for the 1988 and spent eight months in self to get to the gold medal Championships has been going West German~ competing round," DeCicco commented. equally well. against some of the world's best "This isn't his first crack at it. "He's had some great prac­foilists before coming to Notre He competed in the NCAAs last tices," DeCicco explained. "I'm Dame. year, so he knows what it's all hoping he is able to put it all 
In his first two seasons as about." together (in the NCAAs)." Notre Dame's number-three He has also competed against If he does put it all together, foilist, he earned a 49-7 mark some of the top fencers in the Piper may add another gold including a fourth place finish country, including Wayne State's medal to Notre Dame's storied in the 1990 Great Lakes Stefan Schroeder, who has been fencing tradition. Fencing Championships and a one of his biggest rivals this 


Heidi 
continued from page 1 
50-6 as a sophomore and se­cured All-American status with a silver-medal performance at the NCAAs. 
Last year, however, Piper lay claim to the title of best fencer in the country with a 44-1 regu­lar season, All-American recognition for the second con­secutive year, and a gold-medal performance at the NCAAs, her first national title. Piper is 28-3 this season, the returning na­tional champion. 
This season, the Irish are seeking their first team title since 1987, when two-time na­tional champion Molly Sullivan paced the squad to victory. This year's senior-filled squad has the capability to do that. 
"As a team, we have a very good chance of doing well," Piper said. "Other than Columbia, we're the only school to qualify in all four events. It all comes down to how you fence on that day. You just show up on the day and hope it comes together." 
As far as the individual per­formance is concerned, Piper prefers to let her fencing to the talking. 
"There is added pressure on repeating, but it's mainly from other people," she said. "They expect it of you. If I just relax and fence well, then that's the best I can do. It's not good to think about winning-you just 

have to think about fencing well." 
When the competition begins this weekend, Piper will be the one people are gunning for, but the Irish coaches have complete confidence in her abilities. 
"There are about four or five young ladies who will be con­testing for gold," said Irish coach Mike DeCicco. "Olga Ch­ernyak from Penn State (fourth last year), Anne Marsh from Columbia (third), Larissa Lehmkuhl of Wayne ~tate (fifth), and a darkhorse who we know nothing about, Tasha Martin from UC-Santa Cruz, who is the top seed from the West. 
"Heidi's the one everyone will try to beat, though. She is fenc­ing exceptionally well and the NCAA is her kin.d of tourna­ment. If she paces herself and fences as well as she can, she can win it again." 
Not only would a gold medal here at the NCAAs be a brilliant accomplishment for Piper, but it would also be another boost to an Irish fencing program that is very strong already. 
"To have another national champion reinforces our pro­gram," said DeCicco. "We are seeing a number of outstanding women fencers from around the world wanting to come to Notre Dame because of our reputation. I'm extremely proud of the success the kids have had over the years. Yves (women's coach Auriol) has done a tremendous job with the women." 
After culminating her career at Notre Dame, Piper, a psy­chology major who was named to the GTE Academic All-Amer­ica At-Large Second Team for the 1990-91 year, plans to head back to Australia for a while, but she doesn't know if fencing will be in the cards back home. 
"Fencing is an all-around sport that taxes you mentally and physically. I think a lot of it is that I've had success in it and I like winning. That's a good motivation to keep you going. Social fencing is not for me. I could never be satisfied with just messing about. I'm too competitive." 
That competitive fire promises to be trouble for opponents of H.eidi Piper at this weekend's competition. 
page 3 
Irish men achieve perfect record 
Sabre, epee teams come together for season 
Friday, March 20, 1992 

NOTRE DAME FENCING RESULTS 
·····.·..:,.......... :::::..•.,.::····-····-.. ··..., ........ · 
The Observer I Eric Kreidler 


have provided the leadership the team has needed all year, and it has not gone unnoticed. 
"I am so proud of what they have been able to do," said DeCicco. "They are really spe­cial." 
Coach Mike DeCicco wasn't exactly sure what to expect as he led his team into his 31st year as head coach of one of the nation's most successful programs. They started out 
with  a  home  meet  over  
Christmas break, and  were  
pleased with the results.  

The Irish men and women both posted sterling 6-0 records, blowing out the com­petition with the exception of one match. 
The men won convincingly with 22-5 wins over Michigan and Chicago and 23-4 marks against Northwestern and 1 awrepce but §lruggled tp a 
Sabre 
continued from page 4 
NCAAs, despite a 37-4 record. 
"That was strictly a coaching decision," Taliaferro com­mented. "After the people were selected (for the individual competition}, I shifted my in­terests to the team event." 
However, once again things 
NCAA 
continued from page 1 
to be a gold medalist in two dif­ferent weapons. He won the foil title last year. 
"Should Adkins win the gold medal in such a challenging field, it will merely attest to his outstanding talent," said DeCicco. 
The tough field includes Penn's Tamir Bloom and Harold Bauder of Wayne State. Notre Dame's two-time All-American David Calderhead was supposed to seriously challenge for the gold, but he was injured in a motorcycle accident on Tuesday night and will not compete. 
Defending champions Penn State, Midwest champions Wayne State and Temple look to be the class of the women's team foil field, according to Auriol. However, Notre Dame has Heidi Piper and could chal­
16-11 victory over Illinois. The Irish foilists were up 4-2 after the first six bouts of the foil, yet lost the last three for a heartbreaking 5-4 setback. It was to be the foil team's only loss in the regular season. 
All-American David Calderhead led the epeeists with a 18-0 record and Ed Baguer also was perfect on the day, going 16-0. 
The women's foil team's toughest match came against Ohio State, but they prevailed 9­
7. Mary Westrick went 18-2 and defending national cham­pion Heidi Piper was 10-2. 
From there the Iris)) traveled to Evanston, IL for the USFA Open, a meet that matched the top individuals from the nation's top teams. 
The Irish certainly held their own, collecting a gold in epee, silvers in both men's and women's foil, and a bronze in sabre. 
The meet was highlighted by Calderhead's 5-4 comeback vic­tory over Illinois' Scott Rush in the finals, and Heidi Piper's 14­
0 record for the day. 
"We've progressed well, but 
we still have a lot of work to 
do," said DeCicco back then, 
"and only one week to do it." 
The next weekend the Irish ·were to head to the lair of de­
fending national champ .Penn 
State for the crucial test of the 
young season. However, the 
Irish decided to stay home in 
the wake of the Notre Dame 
women's swimming team's 
tragic bus crash. 
"We know we made the right 
decision," noted DeCicco. "We'll 
just go on from here." 
And that they did, trouncing 
Tri-State, Cleveland State, and 
Case Western Reserve by a 
combined score of 70-11, before 
squeaking past Ohio State 16-11 
in a meet in Angola, ln. 
The senior combo of Ed Lefevre and Mike Trisko posted 
8-0 apd Z-Q recprds jp Jeadjpg 
just fell into place, as the Irish 
captured second place in the 
event. 
Going into this weekend's 
NCAA Championships, 
Taliaferro, who is 25-6 on the 
year, is looking to regain All­
American honors that eluded 
him last season and help the 
team win an NCAA title. 
"We are graduating all of our 
starters except for Jeff Piper 
and me," said Taliaferro, who, 
like Piper is a junior. "So, next 
lenge them. 
"Once you're in the semifi­nals, anything is possible," Auriol commented. 
Yale, led by James Borin, is considered the favorite in men's team foil, but defending cham­pions Columbia, Midwest champions Wayne State and Northeast champions NYU could challenge the Bulldogs. 
"I think we have the potential to do well, but we have to prove it on the strip," DeCicco said of his team. 
In the sabre team competi­tion, Penn State and Notre Dame are the two best teams coming in to the NCAAs. However, the Irish will have to fence extremely well to come out on top. 
"In all the years of the NCAA Championships, never has one team dominated the weapon as it appears Penn State is now dominating," said DeCicco. 
Mid-Atlantic/South champions Penn, defending NCAA 
the foil team to a stellar 30-6 record on the day. In another highlight, the sabre squad avenged an earlier loss to Ohio State with a 6-3 win. Captain Chris Baguer pushed his record to 18-1 and senior Ed Baguer kept his season unblemished at 23-0. 
But it was freshman Per Johnsson who stole the show, winning a key 5-4 epee bout. The Irish were down 7-5 to the Buckeyes in the overall stand­ings, but Johnsson's win dead­locked the score at 7 -all, and from there the Irish won the next five bouts to preserve the 16-11 win. 
With one more regular season meet remaining, the Irish had run their record to 10-0, extending their winning streak to 33 matches. The last time the Irish lost a match was two years ago in a season-ending loss to Princeton. That was the only blemish in a 24-1 season. 
Next up for the Irish was the season-ending meet in Champaign, II. Notre Dame wanted to end the season on a high note and they accom­plished their mission. 
They swept past Detroit Mercy 26-1, Michigan St. 25-2, Wayne State 18-9, and Purdue 19-8, while the women beat Detroit Mercy and Purdue 15-1 before ending the year with a hard­fought 9-7 setback to Wayne State. 
Heidi Piper finished her sea­son at 28-3, as she led the women in their 11-2 season. Calderhead capped off his amazing 33-3 season with a 7-1 meet record, and foil captain Jeff Piper(22-5) finished im­pressively with a 6-0 record. Lefevre and Trisko ended their senior campaigns with impres­sive 25-7 and 22-8 slates. 
The strong Irish sabre squad took the cake, though, with se­nior Ed Baguer preserving an astounding 30-0 record. His recprd is secgpd gpJy in the 
season we will be rebuilding. This is the make or break year." 
"Any chance we have at all to win the team championship is directly related to how well James performs. He is going to be the key," DeCicco com­mented. 
If things continue to go as they have gone thus far in James Taliaferro's fencing ca­reer, this weekend should be a very good one for the Notre Dame sabre team. 
champions Columbia and 
Midwest champions Illinois are 
the top squads in the epee team 
field. Notre Dame's hopes were 
dimmed with the loss of 
Calder head. 
"Epee is an unpredictable weapon, and just about any­.thing can happen," DeCicco 
stated. 
Penn State's absence in the team epee field opens the door for Columbia and Notre Dame to take the overall team cham­pionship. The Irish and Columbia are the only squads which qualified all four teams to the NCAA meet, and if Notre Dame can pull off a good showing without Calderhead, the team could challenge for the overall gold. 
"We have our entire team here this weekend," said DeCicco. "If everyone performs, . we've got a shot at the overall 
gold." 

Notre Dame annals to two-time national champion Mike Sullivan's 41-0 slate in 1978. 
Other sabremen also im­pressed, with senior David Chou finishing 17-1, Chris Baguer going 27-4, and All-American James Taliaferro posting a 25-6 season record. 
Next it was on to the post­season, where the first stop was the Midwest Collegiate Open, held at the JACC on March 1. This meet served as a preview for the NCAA regional qualifier, the Midwest Championships, so the Irish wanted to send a message to the rest of the Midwestern fencers. 
The Irish fencers emerged once again as the class of the Midwest, winning three out of the four team competitions with an impressive gold medal showing from Calderhead. Heidi Piper won the silver, as did James Taliaferro in the sabre division. The chance for more medals was eliminated when Taliaferro defeated both Chris and Ed Baguer, but Jeff Piper brought home some more hardware by picking up a bronze medal. 
These performances were all impressive, but they had to be . duplicated the next weekend in East Lansing, Mi. The Midwest Championships determine who will represent the Midwest in the NCAAs, so it was the most important meet of the season. 
To negate Penn State's strengths in the NCAAs, the Irish had to qualify all of their teams to even have a chance at the coveted team championship. 
The Irish did not disappoint, finishing first in sabre and sec­ond in epee and women's and men's foil. Therefore, all of their teams will be on hand for this weekend, a feat only Columbia can match. 
In the individual competition, the top three sabremen, James Taliaferro, Chris Baguer and gold medalist Ed Baguer all qualified and will make their runs at the individual gold medal. 
Sophomore Grzegorz Wozniak finished a surprising second in the epee, with Per Johnsson and David Calderhead right behind at third and fourth. 
In the men's foil, Jeff Piper took the Midwest title and Mike Trisko finished fourth, while the women's foil saw Heidi Piper take the silver and Rachel Haugh finish seventh to also qualify. 
All the places are set, and the Irish are pleased with their fin­ish in the Midwest. Now all they have to do is ride their outstanding depth and chem­istry to the realization of their ultimate dream: a national championship on their home turf. 
-
Epee 
continued fromn page 4 
ceo put faith in his warrior. "If it can be done, David can get it done," he said. 
Currently, Calderhead ap­pears to be among England's top ten fencers. The country takes five to the Olympics. Even if Calderhead's complete recovery holds him out of activ­ity this summer in Barcelona, DeCicco would not rule out see­ing him compete in the 1996 Atlanta Games. 
"Fencing, specifically epee, is a cerebral activity. So much of it is intellectual. A good chess player could probably become a good fencer," DeCicco com­mented. 
Calderhead, with his tremen­dous mental capacity and over­all intensity, is one man capable of maintaining his current skills, according to DeCicco. 
Calderhead's expressed his wild spirit as a fierce competi­tor in fencing, cross country and rugby at St. Peter's School in Clifton, England. 
But perhaps his favorite ob­session,inotorcycling, most ap­propriately reflected his unique personality. He toured the country on his motorcycle and flocked to conventions. He loved the camaraderie of fellow cyclists. Unfortunately, the risky lifestyle of being on the back of a bike caught up to him. 
Let's just hope some day he can get up and ride again. 
page 4 Friday, March 20, 1992 
Taliaferro overcomes obstacles 
By MIKE SCRUDATO hailing from the Garden State, Taliaferro. "I had heard the Sports Editor including four from Essex name, but I didn't even know Catholic. It was there that where it was. I came out here in "It was just meant to be." Taliaferro earned three varsity the fall and really liked the 
This phrase is used very often, letters in fencing and captained place." almost too often, to describe the team his senior year. On the advice of Notre Dame why a certain player or team is He also made the New Jersey fencing coach Mike DeCicco, performing well. all-state team three consecutive Taliaferro enrolled at Holy 
In the case of Notre Dame years and compiled a 70-5 Cross Junior College for the fencer James Taliaferro this record, capturing the 1988 un­spring semester to see if he cliche is appropriate. der-19 National Sabre would like the Michiana area. 
When Taliaferro entered Championship and qualifying as Before ever fencing as a col­Essex Catholic High School he a member of the 1988 National legian, Taliaferro won the 1989 had no plans to fence. He was a junior team. under-20 National Sabre football player and a wrestler. This success brought Championship and was named However, these plans changed Taliaferro a scholarship offer to the Junior World team. when he injured his neck during from Penn State. Taliaferro, Then in the fall, he entered football season and was forced with Essex Catholic and former the University as a freshman, to wear a neck brace for two Irish teammate Jubba Beshin, and the rest, as they say, is his­months. decided to accept Penn State's tory. 
After the brace came off, he offer. In his first year fencing on the planned to begin his high school Fate then stepped into collegiate level, Taliaferro wrestling career, but his doctors Taliaferro's life again, as the posted a 39-7 record and placed decided otherwise. scholarship fell through. Beshin seventh at the 1990 NCAA "My doctors told me that I opted to join fellow Essex Tournament, which earned him
-
couldn't wrestle, but I wanted to Catholic graduates Chris and Ed second-team All-American do something," Taliaferro Baguer at Notre Dame, while honors. explained. "They told me I Taliaferro chose to take a year "I was not really surprised at would be able to fence. I had ofT. the success I had," Taliaferro seen it in Errol Flynn movies "I didn't feel like just going to said. "I expected to do well. I and always thought that it was any school, so I decided to sit was basically fencing at the pretty interesting, but I never out a year and weigh my op· collegiate level in high school. I planned on going into it until I tions," Taliaferro explained. faced the top fencers in the got injured." While he was at home in country at Junior Olympics and 
After learning the basics of Montclair, N.J., Taliaferro's other national tournaments." the sabre, Taliaferro became Essex Catholic teammates were The storybook career looked one of the best fencers in New having success in South Bend. like it took a bad turn last sea­Jersey, the state with the The Baguer brothers and son, when Taliaferro was not strongest junior program in the Beshin convinced Taliaferro to selected to compete in the indi­country. visit Notre Dame. vidual sabre competition at the 
The Notre Dame men's fenc· "I really did not know too ing roster lists nine fencers much about Notre Dame," said see SABRE/page 3 
Calderhead's injury ends run at 1992 national epee title 
By JIM VOGL Calderhead shattered his knee 
Calderhead was employed at a career wins in Notre Dame's 
Assistant Sports Editor in nine places in nine places bank earning money for college illustrious fencing history and and his leg is in traction. He and searching for a direction. received the 1991 Most also suffered a broken arm As the two became friends, Valuable Epee award. 
A somber mood blanketed the above the elbow. Doctors put Castigan discovered Calder­But his most cherished quality Notre Dame fencing office, nes· the arm in a cast and performed head's world-class fencing tal­is his leadership ability, as his tied above Gate 4 at the JACC, · surgery on the leg early ents and suggested he write teammates elected him captain Wednesday afternoon. Wednesday to prevent infection. coach DeCicco at Notre Dame. for the second straight season. 
Only telephone rings inter­Obviously, the team· will miss a continent away. DeCicco does not hesitate to rupted the noise of clanging Calderhead's presence. He won Before Castigan could send praise Calderhead as a self· weapons during practice in the the bronze in the previous two word of his find, Calderhead motivator or state his role as gymnasium outside. NCAA Tournaments and entered had already contacted DeCicco another coach. 
Coach Mike DeCicco should as the top seed out of the and told the coach of his broad "We'll miss him in the bouts, have been anxious about the Midwest. Geoff Pechinsky ambitions. DeCicco trusted undoubtedly. But we'll also upcoming NCAA tournament. "David was going into the Castigan's judgements in an miss is his leadership in getting
the point where I'd be happy
Instead, he answered a born· tournament as one of the top equally competitive atmo­the best out of his teammates. I
with a top-four finish," said
bardment of phone calls all in candidates for the gold medal," sphere-England, where hope that he would be with us
DeCicco.

the same deflated tone. said DeCicco, who understand­Calderhead won several Great emotionally in spirit even
Taking nothing away from
"He's in room 575. He's in ably preferred to speak as Britain Colors fencing awards. though he's not there physi­
Pechinsky, a junior, who has a
traction but he's in good spir­though his protegee from The coach then worked out a cally."
6-0 record this season and is a
its," he kept repeating. Wansford, England, would be partial scholarship offer, to "I expect a complete recov­
two-time monogram winner. 
DeCicco was referring to with them this weekend. which Calderhead anxiously ery," said DeCicco. As for
Nothing can overshadow
Notre Dame's two-time epee Now, the Irish will look to agreed. Calderhead's aspirations of
Calderhead's story. 

All-American David Calderhead, Geoff Pechinsky to fill the huge Showing up in 1989, Calder­representing Great Britain this
Five years ago, former Irish
who was seriously injured in a gap. head did not disappoint. In his summer in the Olympics, DeCi­
fencer Mike Castigan was in
motorcycle accident on Tuesday "We went from a team in first three years, he compiled 98 
Europe training for a pen­see EPEE/page 3 
night. contention for a gold medal to wins, ranking him eighth among 
tathlon. At the same time, 
By JONATHAN JENSEN fencers wear metal vests to or draw blood. This could be touches wins the bout. If the Sports Writer cover this area. done anywhere on the body and score is tied after six minutes, Right-of-way, a rule that will a mere scratch was sufficient. the fencers will fence to break 
So you say you've never seen be explained shortly, applies in There is no right-of-way in the tie. a fencing meet? foil. Thus, after an attack, the epee and the first fencer to hit In the team competition, each 
Don't know the difference director will stop the action and his opponent scores a touch. If bout counts as a point for the between a foil and a sabre? describe what happened. He or both fencers are hit less than team, and they are totaled to Have no idea what the right-of­she will then award a touch, if 1/25 of a second apart, then find the overall winner. way rule means? warranted. both are awarded a touch. Scoring 
After reading this article, you Sabre Modern epee is the easiest The fencers' blades are con­should come away with a better Sabre fencing originated in weapon to watch. nected by an electronic cord to understanding of one of the the cavalry, first in Europe and Right-of-Way a reel on the floor, which is world's most ancient and then in America. Since the sol­As explained, this rule applies connected to the scoring rna· traditional sports. diers rode on horseback, hitting only in foil and sabre. According chine and the scoring towers. 
Let's begin with the basic di­your opponent in the legs would to the rule, the person who There are two lights on each visions of fencing, the three not be effective. Hence, the starts their attack first has the tower, one white and one col­weapons: foil, sabre, and epee. scoring area in sabre is ev­right-of-way. The other must ored. A white light signifies an The modern swordsman erything above the waist. avoid or deflect the attack ofT-target touch, while a colored specializes in one of these The fencers will wear metal before they can begin their own light signifies an on-target weapons, and they differ most jackets, and have metal cover­attack. Thus, if both fencers hit touch. The light flashes on the greatly inZ size and shape, ings on their masks, in order to on-target, only the fencer with side of the fencer who is hit. target area and style of play. cover the target area. the right-of-way gets the touch. Spectator Etiquette 
Foil The right-of-way rule also The director determines which Etiquette for spectators is 
Foils originated as the dueling applies in sabre, but unlike foil fencer has the right-of-way. similar to that of tennis. Even at rapier after the introduction of and epee, a fencer can score by The Director the most important interna­suits of armor, when a thin, cutting with the side of the The director serves of the tional matches, quiet is main­needle-sharp blade was blade as well as by thrusting judge of the bout, awarding tained when fencers are in ac­required to penetrate both it with the tip of the blade. touches, determining which tion. and the chain mail that the Epee fencer had the right-of-way, and Bring this section along to the knights wore. Epee is descended from the interpreting the rules. NCAA's this weekend and 
The target area is just the dueling sword. In duels, the Bouts support the Irish in their quest trunk of the body, and the goal was to "gain satisfaction" The first fencer to score five for a national title. 




Today 

Friday, March 20, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
to\~. FROM NOW ON, 
I llOO'I WAN\ 10 BE \t{\"R.ClQ\J(EI) It ~ f>..SPLA\1\\ 
"CfoiLIJ\1'{." 

THE FAR SIDE 
Clown therapy sessions 
BILL WATIERSON 
I Wt>..~T 1C 8£ I~TROOJC£.0 f..S 
'Ct>..L\1\N, BoiOr llt.'STIN'{ ." 

ACROSS 48 Six-carbon sub-9 S-shaped molding stance 10 After deductions 
1 U.F.O., perhaps 49 Thing 11 Cling11 Mine entrance 50 Nebraska Indian 12 New term for baby­15 Shopper's consider-52 Berlin and Wallace, sitting (2 wds.) 
ation (2 wds.) for short 13 Preconceived 16 Pedestal part 53 Rent 14 Underwater weapon 17 Oliver Twist, for 54 Pillages 21 Censure
GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 

a whi 1e 56 "My country -of 23 Await decision 18 Actress Martha-thee" 25 Love, in Spain
r--------------------.. 19 Canadian province 
57 Suffix: process 27 Repeat
(abbr.) 58 Lose value 29 Kett of the comics 20 Gossip evilly 60 In the bag 31 -of Cleves
Well 'fOU see i.he. 

21 Surrmarize 61 Foreman 34 Infielder Jerry­22 Live ----(revel) 62 Made time 36 Judd Hirsch TV show
Fleet .foot.® Gsn.® has 

24 World War II 63 Secondary artery 37 Eternal 
rnore irt\pac.:\:. resistanc.e initials (2 wds.) 38 Studies (2 wds.)
25 Refresh, as a room 39 Partner for Rogers
c.apab··li t.y be.c.avse of 26 Sea nymph DOWN 41 Went hiking 
28 Kind of steel 43 Share
-!:.he bu\\i: it\ shoc.l<trot® 30 Council of -, 1 Name 44 Potential guest
1545-63 2 Computer accessory 45 Menu item~ysten'\. It absorb5 31 John Jacob or Mary 3 Motion ----47 Reacted to the 32 Old name for Tokyo 4 Half an antiair-villain
roore. of-tne.. s'noc't\ 

33 "Black Sunday" star, craft gun 48 "Monopoly" piecesBruce -5 Congressmen, for 51 Ex-catcher Joe ­
oC'Id cliS'\:.r\ bv-\:.es 

35 Harness race short 54 Dolly of "Hello ~o -t.'na't 37 Nets' old league 6 Used a mangle Dolly" 40 Oscar de la -7 Implied 55 Robert Burns was one
~trees'S iS 

42 Very uninteresting 8 Calligrapher's con-58 Permissable actions 46 Filmy cobweb tainers 59 Ending for super
diverteo 
CAMPUS
+ro't'Yl the. ph·, points 

7 p.m. Film festival: See No Evil, "Missing." Panel
afl cl fl'\o r e. 

discussion to follow. Room 120, Law School. e_ Ve.Y) \'f 
7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Film: "Dead Again." Annenberg
throvghovt 

Auditorium. t:~e. u.1 'ho\e 
7:30 p.m. Folk Dancing. Club House, SMC.
s'noe ... 

8 p.m. and 10:30 pm. Film: "My Girl." Cushing Audi­torium. 
LECTURES 
MENU 

4:30 p.m. Nieuwland Chemistry and Biochemistry Lecture: "How Science Really Works-or Should," Jack Halpern, Notre Dame Saint Mary's Louis Block, Distinguished Service Professor of Chemistry, 
University of Chicago, Room 123 Nieuwland Hall. Man. Clam Chowder Fried Perch Cheese Pizza Macaroni and Cheese 7:30-9:30 p.m. Public Forum: "What Vision of World Order Vegetable Pizza Vegetable Quiche is Desirable and Possible?" Co-sponsored by the Kroc Buttermilk Pancakes Institute for International Peace Studies and the World Order Lemon Pepper Catfish Models Project, Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 


MY GIRL 
TONIGHT, MARCH 20TH SATURDAY, MARCH 21ST 
8:00 p.m. & 10:30 p.m. 
CUSHING AUDITORIUM ADMISSION $2.00 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Sports 
page 20 Friday, March 20,1992 
DAVE ~ 
DIETEMAN 

Do us all a favor, 
leave the stadium 
well enough alone 
During the 1991 football season, Notre Dame's athletic department performed an admirably Orwellesque exercise in doublespeak. 
On the one hand, the programs distributed at home games featured colorful renditions of the stadium and the marquee Irish players which have called it home. 
Hoopla went so far as to include a poster of the stadium (actually, a collage of the program covers) by artist Michael Taylor, obtainable with tickets from the Tennessee program. 
Not coincidentally, the Tennessee game was the 300th game played in the house that Rockne built, as well as the 1OOth consecutive sellout. 
Yet the Tennessee game-last home game of the 1991 season-could be one of the last times the word "sellout" implies 59,075 when being spoken about Notre Dame Stadium. 
Why? 
Quite simply, because enough alumni and rabid Fighting Irish fans have expressed an interest in either building a new stadium outright (preferably a dome) or in erecting several thousand extra seats (a Ia the aesthetically elegant Beaver Stadium in State College, Pa.) 
Many people-especially those who have attempted to get tickets for Notre Dame home games-are receptive to the eoneept of expansion. Seats would be plentiful, scalped ticket prices would drop, and everybody would be happy, right? 
Dead wrong. For several reasons. 
First, consider the financial standing of the university. Some of Notre Dame's largest endowments in recent memory have come from sources not typically grouped with choir boys when doing character assessments. The construction of extra seating decks could carry a price tag as high as $10 million. A dome? Try $200 million, if not more. 
Where would Notre Dame scrounge up that kind of dough? And even if they could, do plush seats with armrests for cocktail-swilling alumni really justify the expense? 
Second, consider the recent history of Notre Dame football. Yes, Lou Holtz has brought home the national championship and the NBC deal (another curious business ar­rangement) keeps America's interest piqued. 
But does anyone remember a coach named Gerry Faust? A very good man, but he struggled while at the Irish 

Irish baseball visits No. 14 Arizona St. 

With three tournaments un­der their belt, the Notre Dame baseball team (1 0-2) will travel to Tempe, AZ to take on Arizona State (16-8) over the weekend. 
The three-game series opens today with the eleventh-ranked Irish meeting the fourteenth­ranked Sun Devils in what should prove to be an exciting game. 
"Year in and year out, they (ASU) are one of the best pro­grams in the country. That's why we schedule them," said Notre Dame coach Pat Murphy. "(After three tournaments) it will be a lot more exciting to face them for three games. You learn more about your opponent in a series like this. It's more of a chess match and more fun." 
Pitching will be key once again for Notre Dame, but the Irish have an experienced pitching corps ready to take the mound. Junior Chris Michalak is slated as the probable starter for Friday's game. The left-hander is 3-0 with a 0.69 ERA, the lowest on the team. Junior right­hander AI Walania (1-1, 3.75 ERA, 1 save) is penciled in for Saturday's game while fellow 

"Freman is an all­around great player." said Murphy. "Severson will be a first round pick maybe even the first one picked in this year's draft. Newstrom is the kid who makes them go." 
The Irish offense will be challenged by Arizona State's pitching staff. This weekend's starters are only speculative now, but this weekend's mound crew will likely be Newstrom, Sean Lowe, and Jeff Matreage. Lowe is 5-2 with a 3.04 ERA, Matreage is also 5-2 with an ERA of 3.23, and Newstrom is 2-2 with a 
4.04 ERA. 

Probable starters for Notre Dame include freshman Bob Lisanti or sophomore Matt Haas behind the plate and freshman Craig DeSensi and Leahy handling the 011 duties. In the infield, 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey seniors Joe Binkiewicz Veteran Irish baseball coach Pat Murphy leads 11th-ranked Notre Dame O_BI and Cory Mee (3B) against number 14 Arizona State this weekend in Tempe for three games. Will protect the corners junior right-hander Pat Leahy Freman (.367, 2 HRs, 15 while sophomore Greg (3-0, 0.93 ERA) will likely be RBis), centerfielder Todd Layson or freshman Robby onthemoundonSunday. Severson (.281, 3 HRs, 18 ~irk (2B) and ~enior Craig 
Theses pitchers will face a RBis), and designated hitter Counsell (SS) Will cover the formidable Sun Devil offense Doug Newstrom (.378, 2 HRs, middle. Freshman Steve that include shortstop Kurt 21 RBis). 
see IRISH/page 17 
Ohio State gets next shot at fifth-ranked Irish tennis 

By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team enters this weekend's match with Ohio State with a freshly-painted target on its head. Ranked fifth in the nation, the Irish have become one of the most important dates on every opponent's schedule. 
Ohio State, a consistently successful team in the tough Big Ten, will be shooting to kill when they enter the Eck Tennis Pavilion Saturday afternoon. 
Led by number-one singles player Gabor Koves, ranked 41st in the nation, the Buckeyes threaten conference powerhouses Minnesota and Indiana in the Big Ten standings. 
Hailing from the same NCAA region as the Buckeyes, Notre Dame sees this dual match as an important part in achieving a perfect regional record. Coach Bob Bayliss has set a goal of an undefeated regional season for his team this year. 
In each of the last two years, the Irish have qualified for the NCAA tournament as the Midwest regional champion, but each season's record has been marred by at least one intraregionalloss. 
see TENNIS/page 16 
Irish fencer over legal limit 
Observer Staff Report 

More details of Notre Dame All-American fencer David Calderhead's motorcyde aceident became ­available yesterday in a police report. 
Witnesses told police that Calderhead had been in the left turn lane facing south on Indiana 23 when he continued straight and drove into the front of Barbara Heiser's, 68, car. 
A test given by police showed Calderhead had a blood alcohol level of 0.186 percent, which is above the legal limit. Investigators intend to confer with the county prosecutors office about filing formal charges. 
helm. Even if the rabid dome-mongers forget the dark years of subjugation to the likes of Air Force, the reminder could be painful. Consider the following scenario. 
see STADIUM/page17 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Five track athletes visit the 
Florida State relays see page 18 
•SMC tennis prepares for 
home opener see page 16 
•softball preview see page 16 
NCAA Bound 

126-pound senior Marcus Gowens is at the NCAA Championships this weekend in Oklahoma City 






