
~.~&~
·Q&·
. t!t--­

1142·1992 
eObserver 
samt Mary's Colleg~

SlSQUIC£NTfNIIIIAL 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 


VOL. XXIV NO. 87 
All aboard 
TUESDAY , FEBRUARY 4, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Sean Faman 
Notre Dame students load up a CSC van at the main circle yesterday to tutor in South Bend. This group volunteers at the Tutor-Eggleston School weekly. 
Grace may choose chemical-free living 
By PETER LOFTUS 
Assistant News Editor 
"NO OPEN CONTAINERS IN THE HALLWAY" might lose its relevance as a regulation for some residents of Notre Dame's Grace Hall. 
Grace is considering imple­menting "chemical-free" sec­tions, where willing residents would prohibit themselves from drinking alcohol or smoking on the section. 
Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace, came up with the idea after reading a recent Newsweek article which told of "substance-free corridors" and "wellness houses" at other uni­versities. 
"Notre Dame has been proud of its residential nature," said Lardner Monday. Alcohol-free living space is "one specific area where other institutions are a little bit ahead of NO." 
Grace might implement a chemical-free section next semester if enough residents express interest in living in one, said Lardner. 
Lardner has distributed copies of the Newsweek article throughout Grace, and its hall council has tossed the idea around. Grace is conducive to chemical-free sections because of its large number of residents and its design, said Lardner. 
Grace president Keith McK­eon and vice president Steve Connolly announced the idea to the Grace hall council last week, according to Connolly. Hall council agreed that if there's enough interest in the hall, a chemical-free section should be implemented. 
"It's hard to be against the idea," said Lardner. "If there are people who are willing, we just want to make them aware of the possibility." 
"A lot of guys don't want to put up with people puking in the bathrooms," said Connolly. 
After he receives a list of next year's Grace residents, Lardner plans to post a sign-up sheet in Grace for people who are inter­ested in living in a chemical­free section. A lottery system would be used to decide which section is chemical-free, said Connolly. Grace has 20 sections. 
Lardner has not proposed any definite regulations for residents of a chemical-free section, and he suggested that it 
see ALCOHOL I page 4 

Dogs will be observed for diseases 

By ANDY RUNKLE 
News Writer 
The pair of dogs which at­tacked a Notre Dame student and an unidentified male Thursday night were caught and have been confined for ob­servation, according to Kris Rybicki of the St. Joseph County Humane Society. 
"The dogs will be confined with us for a period of time to keep a close watch on them," said Rybicki. 
Indiana state law requires that these dogs should be con­fined for a period of observa­tion to ensure the lack of dis­ease, according to Rybicki. Nei­ther dog had updated vaccina­tions, but they have not shown symptoms of rabies, she said. 
"Rabies is not a prominent problem in Indiana at this time," according to Rybicki. 
The female student was at­tacked from behind and bitten by only one dog near Campus View Apartments. The male victim was attacked by both dogs near Mike's Restaurant, 18127 State Rd. 23. He was bitten in the arm by one dog, while the other dog attacked his foot. 
The two attack victims both positively identified the con­fined dogs as those which at­tacked them, commented Ry­bicki. 
Both dogs were owned by the same person, who surrendered the dogs for confinement at the humane society, according to Rybicki. 

By ANNMARIE ZELL 
News Writer 
The most effective way to in­crease the educational oppor­tunities for minorities, is to convince all Americans that the effort and expense of education is in their own best self inter­ests, according to William Gray, president and CEO of the United Negro College Fund. 
"It's not for altruism, charity or even fairness...it's about self­interest," said William Gray in reference to the promotion of 
Gray lectures about minority opportunities 
education of minority that Nelson Mandela would be Americans last night in a lec­free?" ture titled "Challenges, Changes The second revolution Gray and Opportunities and Why I cited is an economic revolution. decided to Leave the House." "We are now seeing increasing 
Gray said there are three competition from nations like revolutions taking place today. South Korea and Japan." Gray Gray noted the revolution in ex­classified the United Germany isting geopolitical realities. He and the European common asked, "Who would have be~ market as formidable competi­lieved that a few years ago that tors in the future. "We no we could ever buy a piece of the longer are the only Goliath," he Berlin wall? Who would have said. thought that ethnic forces The final "revolution we only would bring about the disinte­dimly understand," said Gray in gration of the Soviet Union or reference to the changes occur-ring in the population demo­graphics of America. By the year 2025, one-third of our na­tion will be minorities, said Gray. 

"In order for America not to slip during the economic and political changes," said Gray, "we need to make sure that we produce a new generation of Americans who can provide new ideas to drive the country." 
To accomplish this feat, Gray recommended dispelling many prevalent myths in our society 
see GRAY I page 4 


Father Malloy lectures at Morrissey Manor 
By ELIZABETH COSTELLO 
News Writer 
University President Father Malloy discussed his presidency, the recession and student concerns at Morrissey Manor last night. 
"It's hard to describe what a president does," he told stu­dents. 
The officers report to the president and then, as a group, they all report to the trustees, according to Malloy. 
"The people that I work with are a wonderful group of peo­ple. The alumni have been wonderful," he said. 
"There are important things about policy and personnel that I am responsible for, and I try to do my best," Malloy said. 
The President's concerns in­clude the number of faculty and availability of courses at Notre Dame, the diversification of the University, and the relationship of the University and the sur­rounding South Bend neighbor­hoods. 
Notre Dame is trying to be­come as outstanding at the graduate level as it is in the un­dergraduate level, according to Malloy. "We have the potential and capacity to build on the best Catholic university in the world. -To be as great a graduate university as the un­dergraduate university." 
One of the ways to increase research and better the gradu­ate program at the University is to decrease a professor's teaching load, Malloy said. The transition from an undergrad­uate university to a research university affects class size, demand and availability, he ex­plained. 
The University has decreased the number of some professor's classes from three a semester to two, thus allowing more time for research. Malloy said this 
see MALLOY I page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Saint Mary'simage probremstarfs at the 
top 
A long time ago, many·..•.··· Saint Mary's students used to complain that The Observer didn't give their school enough coverage. 
This year's Editor-in­Chief Kelley Tuthill made a concerted effort to John O'Brien 
change that apparent lack of coverage. Accent Editor
The Saint Mary's staff________ was expanded and four new editors were hired. Coverage of Saint Mary's improved almost immediately. The complaints turned to compliments and it appeared that things were improving. But they could be better. Whose fault is that? The Observer's? Tuthill's? Not quite. It is the fault of the Saint Mary's administration that coverage of Saint Mary's is not what it should be. So the fact that Saint Mary's image may be suffering can be attributed to those in charge of the College, even those at the top-the very top. If you look at page 9 of today's paper, you'll find a profile of Saint Mary's President William Hickey. It is a fine profile-the reporter did an excellent job-but there's something disturbing about it. The version you're reading was "approved" (read as "rewritten") by Saint Mary's Public Relations. As someone who read the original, let me guarantee you that it didn't say anything like "WILLIAM HICKEY IS THE SPAWN OF SATAN." If anything, it was quite flattering. Normally, we don't submit our stories for approval, but an agreement between Hickey and the reporter required us to do so. So it was submitted to Hickey for "approval." However, Hickey deemed it unacceptable and sent it to P.R. to have his quotes rewritten and dressed up. Despite reservations, I decided to run the story anyway. All we needed to do was get a picture of Hickey-nothing big, maybe a shot o him at his desk. Sounds easy enough? It was-NOT. Our photographer was told that Hickey likes to see any photos of him so he can "approve" them to run with appropriate stories. They were kind enough to "approve" the boring posed shot you see on page 9. How big of them. 
But imagine my surprise when I opened up Wednesday's (Jan. 29) South Bend Tribune to find a huge profile of Hickey and Saint Mary's. 
Accompanying the story was-you got it-a huge photo of Hickey. 
Surely, I thought, this must be an approved story. And, I said aloud, this fine picture was surely approved as appropriate by the authorities at Saint Mary's. 
But after talking to the reporter who wrote that story for the Tribune, I found out no such approval was necessary for media other than, well, The Observer. 
But this is not an exception, it is the rule. Getting a story about Saint Mary's is a lot like pulling teeth. 
So the next time a woman from Saint Mary's asks me why her College isn't getting good coverage from The Observer, I won't send her to talk to Tuthill. I'll tell her to write a letter to Hickey. 
I'm sure Saint Mary's Public relations will draw up an appropriate response ASAP. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tuesday, February 4, 1992 

fORECAST: 
Cloudy, breezy and cooler today, with a chance of showers. Highs near 40. Cloudy. colder Wednesday. Highs near 30. 
TEMPERATURES: 
Tokyo 45 36 Warsaw 34 30 Washinglon, D.C. 44 24 
Pr95Sure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoc/11/sd PrtJss 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Terrorist fires lawyer, halts trial 
• PARIS-The leader of a bombing campaign that terrorized Paris in the mid-1980s derailed his murder trial Monday by firing his defense attorney, whom he accused of not being a true Muslim. The trial of Fouad Ali Saleh and eight alleged accomplices was postponed until April to give new lawyers time to study the 50,00­page file. The nine are charged with murder, attempted murder and conspiracy for a rash of bombings in 1985 and 1986 that left 13 dead and more than 300 injured. Saleh, a 33-year-old Tunisian has been sentenced to 20 years for arms trafficking and terrorist enterprising. 
NATIONAL 

Bush ~luRs U.S. on British networks 
OF INTEREST 

• 
A mandatory Finance Club meeting will be held tonight in Room 122 of Hayes-Healy at 7 p.m. for all club members. Topics to be discussed include: Finance Fo­rum, trip to Chicago, Officers Elections, and Sneakers Night. 

• 
Wednesday Lunch Fast begins tomorrow, February 5th. 


Today's Staff:  
News:  Systems:  
Lauren Aquino  Czar Capella  
Alicia Reale  Jon Halloran  
Sports:  Pat Barth  
Rich Szabo  Viewpoint:  
Production:  Cheryl Moser  
Melissa Cusack  Accent:  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Cheryl Moser  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY'S TRADING/February 3 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX I} 226,444,870 226.61 v 0.41 S&P COMPOSITE 409.53 • 0.74 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,234.12 • 10.73 

PRECIOUS METALS 
GOLD-<} $ .20 to $355.150/oz. 
SILVER-if 6.2¢ to $4.173/oz. 
City 
Amsterdam Atlanta Bogota Boston Brussels Chicago Fargo Fairbanks Greal Falls Honolulu Houslon Johannesburg Kansas City London Los Angeles Miarri Beach Mpls·Sl. P<!IJI New York Paris San Diego Sao Paulo South Bend 
H  L  
43  36  
45  22  
35  19  
31  19  
46  32  
59  29  
29  26  
--t1  ·22  
52  22  
76  66  
59  54  
88  63  
60  42  
48  36  
79  54  
71  66  
37  30  
43  24  
43  28  
73  48  
77  68  
51  26  


CAMPUS Warner to direct festival in Ireland 
• NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Steven 
Warner, associate director of campus ministry and director of the NO Folk Choir, has been chosen guest director for the Irish Church Music Association's 1992 Study Week. Warner will also lead workshops in Irish and American liturgical music for the event, which will be held July 6-10 at Maynooth College 


in Dublin. Ireland. He visited various centers of liturgical music in Ireland in 1987, and intends to lead the Folk Choir during its tour of the country this year. 
• All Juniors planning on attending Junior Parent's Weekend, the last day for JPW seating requests is Wednesday, Feb. 5. All those who still need to sign up should call Katy at 283-2537. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: Electors unanimously chose George Washington to be the first president of the United States (however, the results of the election were not tabulated until April6). 

•In 
1945: President Franklin D. Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet leader Josef Stalin began a wartime conference at Yalta. 

•In 
1982: President Reagan announced a plan to eliminate all medium-range nuclear missiles in Europe, one day after the Soviet Union proposed reducing the number of missiles on both sides. 

• 
In 1991 : Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani offered to hold talks with Iraq and the United States in an attempt to mediate an end to the Gulf War. President Bush sent Congress a $1.45 trillion budget for fiscal 1992 containing a deficit of $280.9 billion. 



8 V AMY GREENWOOD 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
A faculty development award was recently created in honor of Father Theodore Hesburgh, University of Notre Dame's president emeritus. 
The Theodore M. Hesburgh Award for Faculty Development has been established by the Teachers Insurance and Annu­ity Association College Retire­ment Equities Fund (TIAA­CREF). TIAA-CREF provides a nationwide pension system for higher education. 
The Hesburgh award, includ­ing $25,000, will be given an­nually to an institution of higher education in recognition of creative and effective under­graduate teaching. Addition­ally, five commendable pro­grams will receive certificates. 
United States public and pri­vate colleges and universities with two and four-year pro­grams will be eligible for the award. 
The TIAA-CREF award pro­gram will work to encourage, identify, and publicize the best programs for inspiration and replication, with a concentra­tion on undergraduate educa­tion. 
"We feel that this is a compe­tition in which everybody will win," said Clifton Wharton Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of TIAA-CREF. "We hope that it will stimulate new attention to this important fac­ulty area and provide proven concepts for inspiration and replication." 
Eligible programs should target a specific professional development area for under­graduate teaching. Considering the budget constraints in the upcoming years, resourceful­ness rather than resources will be the primary focus. Specific criteria will be developed fur­ther by the judging panel in the next few weeks. 
The judging panel will consist of up to 12 nationally recog­nized higher education leaders. 
Initially, the panel will screen eligible programs along with a 

The Observer 
small group of individuals that have special expertise in faculty development. A winner and special recognition programs will be chosen from finalists recommended by the screening process. Institutional programs may be self-nominated or recommended by others. 
University president from 1952-87, Hesburgh made qual­ity undergraduate teaching a goal for the University. He served for 28 years as a trustee for the TIAA-CREF board of overseers until his retirement in 1991. Hesburgh has been unavailable to comment. 
TIAA-CREF was established in 1918 to provide retirement security for those working in education. The company cur­rently provides pension plans and insurance to more than 1.4 million people in 4, 700 educa­tional institutions. 
"This award program is an outgrowth of our historical re­lationship with the academic community," said Claire Shea­han, a TIAA-CREF representa-
Applications are now being accepted for the following paid positions: 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Applicants for the Managing Editor's pos~tion should: •Have a wide base of Macintosh computer knowledge• •Have strong interpersonal and management skills• •Have strong editing skills and experience• •Be. familiar with newspaper production• 
Applicants for the Business Manager's position should: •Be a sophomore or junior Business major• •Have de_sire to gain valuable work experience• •Have strong interpersonal and organizational skills• •Have a firm grasp of basic accounting principles• 
A three-page personal statement and resume must be submitted to Monica Yant by.s p.m. Friday, Feb. 7. For further information or job descriptions, contact L1sa Eaton (Managing Editor) or Gil Gomez (Business Manager), at The Observer, 239-5303. 
page 3 

Saint Mary's Phonathon begins raising money 
By MICHELLE 
CLEMENTE 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Phonathon begins this week to help raise money in order to help lower some of the College's costs. 
The unrestricted money raised will be used for financial aid, scholarships, and faculty salary. Money raised will cover anything which the tuition, and room and board doesn't cover, which is less than 80 percent, according to Sarah Peterek, di­rector of Annual Giving. 
"The monetary goal this semester is $60,000. Last semester $48,000 was raised. The goal for the 1991-92 An­nual Fund is $1.4 million," she added. 
Volunteers can come to room 309 Haggar College Center Monday through Thursday this week and next during the call­ing hours of 6 -10 p.m. Volun­teers are asked to come for two hour shifts. 
After completing a shift, stu­dents get a free five-minute long distance phone call any­where in the domestic U.S. 
Free chips and salsa will be of­fered for the volunteers throughout the calling hours, courtesy of Hacienda. 
A new feature of the Phonathon is the academic calling.'Students can call alum­nae in their major. A great way of networking and sending re­sumes, said Peterek. Last semester, Greer Gilland, a se­nior communications major, called alumnae and was then able to send out her resumes. 
For those who participate in the Phonathon, some prizes will be awarded through a raffle. Anyone who volunteers her time will be eligible. 
According to Jean Mulrenan, assistant to the director of An­nual Giving, the grand prize is two roundtrip airline tickets courtesy of Travelmore and American Airlines to anywhere in the domestic'U.S. Other prizes include free dinners at Steak-N-Ale, La Salle Grill, and. Knollwood Country Club. Gift certificates for gourmet coffee and tanning coupons are also prizes. 
For more information Sarah Peterek can be called at 284­4706 or Jean Mulrenan at 284­
92 Iceberg Debates begin tonight with .23 teams 
Special w:n.QbstrYer 
The 1992 Iceberg Debates begin tonight with 23 teams debating on the Notre Dame administration's response to the demands made by Students United For Respect (SUFR) last spring. 
The topic for the first two preliminary rounds is, "Resolved: That the University of Notre Dame administration has appropriately responded to the demands made by SUFR." Teams will compete tonight and Thursday night, switching posi­tions for the second debate, said Anna Garcia, chariperson. 
The four-member teams rep­resent approximately 20 dorms, according to Garcia. Some teams are co-ed, and all teams can feature only two speakers per debate. 
Those who do not compete tonight will argue the opposing position for their team on Thursday. 
An optional third night of preliminary debates is sched­uled for a week from today. All preliminary debating will take place at 9 p.m. in various resi­dence halls. 
Quarterfinal rounds are scheduled Feb. 18, with the semi-finals on Feb. 25. Garcia said quarterfinal debating will take place in the residence halls, while the semi-finals will be held in Hayes-Healy and the Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune. 
The final round of the Iceberg Debates will take place March 3 in the Hesburgh Library Audi­torium. 
Eight teams will advance to the semi-finals, and from there teams will be "power-matched" according to their ranking, she added. 
Subsequent resolutions will be announced after the prelimi­nary rounds, Garcia said. 
Airplane believed to be down in Lake Michigan 
BENTON HARBOR, Mich. (AP) -A twin-engine airplane practicing instrument landings at Benton Harbor airport dis­appeared from radar late Mon­day morning and was believed down in Lake Michigan, officials said. 
Two people were aboard the six-passenger Beechcraft air­plane when it disappeared from radar at the South Bend, Ind., air traffic control tower about 
11:30 a.m., said Martin Albers, a Federal Aviation Administra­tion area supervisor at the tower. 
"We were tracking a plane and we lost it off radar," Albers said. "We do not know what happened." 
Identities of the two people on board were not available, Albers said. 
The plane was based at the Berrien Springs airport, where it had taken off Monday morn­ing. The Berrien Springs and Benton Harbor airports are about 10 miles apart. 
A Coast Guard helicopter dis­patched from Chicago spotted an oil slick and aircraft tires about 1 1/2 miles offshore from Benton Harbor about 3 p.m., said Lt. Bruce Fisher of the Coast Guard's Grand Haven post. 
A second Coast Guard heli­?~pter from Traverse City JOined the search. Neither pas­senger was found and only scattered debris was spotted before the search was called off Monday night, said Chief Tom Wilson of the Grand Haven post. The search was to resume Tuesday morning. 
Fisher and Albers said it had not been determined whether the plane that disappeared from radar had crashed. 
But "we have to assume it may be one and the same," Fisher said. 
The plane was making its fi­nal approach and the pilot gave no indication the plane was in trouble before losing contact with the South Bend tower, Al­bers said. 
page 4 The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1992 
Scientists find alarming ozone depletion 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The highest levels of ozone-destroy­ing chemicals ever measured have been found in the skies over the northern hemisphere, making it likely an ozone hole will develop this winter over parts of the United States, Canada and Europe, NASA sci­entists said Monday. 
"Everybody should be alarmed about this," said Michael Kurylo, manager of the upper atmosphere research program at the National Aero­nautics and Space Administra­tion. "We're seeing conditions primed for ozone destruction. It's in a far worse way that we thought." 
Kurylo said that aircraft and satellite instruments have mea­sured levels of chlorine monox­ide, a manmade chemical byproduct, at up to 1.5 parts 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
has led to an increase in the number of faculty so enough courses are available to stu­dents. 
"I think the quality of our faculty has never been higher," he said. 
Meeting the financial needs of all Notre Dame students is an­other concern of Malloy's. "Financial aid is the number one goal in fundraising," ac­cording to the President. 
Gray 
continued from page 1 
concerning minorities. "Some people are now saying that we've leveled the playing field and what society needs is a meritocracy. However, the statistics suggest the contrary." Gray then reported that a woman today only gets 61% of the salary of her male coun­terpart for the same job. Gray indicated that the same statis­tical discrepancies in salary are true for other minorities. 
"We forget that it is only over the past thirty years that there have been changes in opportu­nities," said Gray. Gray admits that there have been great strides in providing educational opportunities. Yet he believes 
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
would be appropriate for the residents themselves to formu­late a policy. 
"The details of expectations and sanctions will be set up by members of the section," said Lardner. 
He speculated that two rules would be essential to any chem­ical-free section: 
•Residents 
may not drink al­cohol or smoke on the section; and 

•Residents 
may not return to their sections if they are intoxi­cated. 


"No one's taking a vow of ab­stinence," he said, leaving open the possibility that residents could consume alcohol outside their section. 
per billion, the highest levels ever recorded. 
The levels are high enough, he said, to destroy ozone at the rate of 1 percent to 2 percent a day for brief, late-winter peri­ods. With conducive weather conditions, the northern ozone layer could be depleted by 30 to 40 percent, he said. 
Kurylo said the areas of de­pleted ozone found by NASA satellites extended as far south as New England and France during parts of January. 
"We're not concerned with just remote areas now," he said. "What we're dealing with extends to very populated re­gions in the northern hemi­sphere." 
Ozone in the upper atmo­sphere serves to shield the Earth from the destructive ef­fects of ultraviolet radiation. 
Changes at Notre Dame in the future include an increase of female students, diversification of the student body with an in­crease of minorities, more stu­dent involvement in interna­tional programs and service projects, and better male/female relations, and the recognition of dorm tradition. 
"There is nothing that ex­plains the mystique and quality of Notre Dame than the resi­dentiality -living together in dorms," Malloy said. 
The relationship of Notre Dame students and the South Bend community is one of great 
that further changes must be initiated to prepare for the emerging political and eco­nomic realities. 
"Japan is going to train ev­eryone in their society. Gone are the days we can say we are it. Now the door needs to be open for every American" to be whatever he or she chooses, said Gray. Otherwise America's economic position will slide, making individual economic success for Americans of all races and genders increasing difficult. He warned that in the future the types of skills needed will require either a college ed­ucation or a technical equiva­lent. 
Gray, former Pennsylvania congressman and majority whip, claimed his reasons for leaving the House of Represen­tatives to become the President 
"We only need 22 interested upperclassmen to agree to it," said Lardner, "and out of 500, we might be able to get those numbers." 
Lardner hasn't yet spoken to the Office of Residence Life about the chemical-free section, but he guessed that they would be supportive. 
The December 16, 1991 issue of Newsweek details the experi­ences of students at several universities who live in "substance-free" areas of resi­dence halls. 
Excess exposure to ultraviolet rays is known to cause skin cancer and cataracts and to suppress the human immune system. The natural radiation can also damage plants and ocean plankton. 
Atmospheric molecules of chlorine monoxide and bromine monoxide react in the presence of sunlight to cause a thinning of the ozone layer. Thus, by measuring the levels of these chemicals, scientists can predict the level of ozone destruction. 
Most of the destructive chlo­rine and bromine chemicals re­sult from the release of indus­trial chemicals known as chlo­rofluorocarbons, or CFCs, and halons. CFCs are used as re­frigerants and in some indus­trial processes; halons are used as fire suppressants. 
concern, Malloy said. Violence, hostility and crack cocaine pre­sent in the neighborhood south of campus has led the Univer­sity to take the initiative on some of those things, according to Malloy. The students must be careful in the surrounding neighborhoods. 
The President's concerns also include the swim team tragedy and the Notre Dame commu­nity's reaction. "There was such an atmosphere of support and love that I would like to bottle it," Malloy said. "The fragility of life, we're reminded of that," he added. 
and CEO of the United Negro College Fund were altruistic. "I was more appealed to bridging the gaps of the creation of a new generation of Americans," Gray explained. Considering his background as a Baptist minis­ter and a college professor, he believes his choice should not be surprising. 
In reference to his very suc­cessful political careers as Pennsylvania Congressman, majority whip, Gray described his most frustrating political experience was a lack of con­trol. 
However, Gray did mention that members of the Hill are not the scoundrels the public sometimes makes them out to be. Gray said, "They are decent people." 
At the University of Michigan, 1,425 students have signed pledges to "abstain from alco­hol, tobacco and illicit drugs in their dorm rooms; more than 300 others were turned down for lack of space," according to the article. 
At Holy Cross College in Mas­sachusetts, "180 students live on substance-free corridors in Loyola Hall." 
Boston University has a "wellness house," where stu­dents may smoke or drink out­side of the house "as long as they don't come back drunk." 

Boat people battle each other leaving 18 dead 
HONG KONG, (AP) -Viet­namese boat people battled with homemade spears and axes during a Lunar New Year festival Monday, leaving 18 dead and 119 injured in the worst outbreak of violence in the British colony's camps, po­lice said. 
Police said about 300 boat people, apparently from rival gangs of former North and South Vietnamese, fought late Monday in the Sbek Kong De­tention Center, home to 8,900 boat people. During the riot, someone set fire to a hut. 
Fireman doused the fire 90 minutes later and pulled out 18 bodies, including that of a . child, police ,Said. About 400 riot police, firing tear gas, brought the camp under con­trol. One police officer was slightly injured. 
The British colonial govern­ment has recently begun to force Vietnamese to their Communist homeland, and tensions have grown between those willing to return home and those who dream of a life in the West. 
Robert Van Leeuwen, head of the Hong Kong office of the United Nations High Commis­sioner for Refugees, said the trouble began when two Viet­namese .,..... one from the north and one from the south -be­gan arguing over whether they should return. 
"Apparently it escalated into a major disturbance," he said. 
Police, however, said a dis­pute over water for a bath set off the fighting. 
"It was a senseless act of 
violence," said Hong Kong's governor, Sir David Wilson, . who arrived at the scene. 
Tension between Vietnamese from the two former states is high in Hong Kong's squalid detention centers, home to 60,000 Vietnamese. 
The burned hut was located in Section C of the camp, which houses 806 Vietnamese who recently volunteered to return home. Occupants of an adjacent section knocked down a gate between the two sections and joined the battle, police said. 
The violence flared about an hour before the start of New Year's celebrations, which the Vietnamese call the Tet festival, the government said. 
It was the most violent out­break since Vietnamese began flooding Hong Kong's shores more than 12 years ago. More than 300,000 Vietnamese have come to Hong Kong; a total of more than 1.5 million left Viet­nam. 
The British colonial govern­ment has begun a program to force the Vietnamese to return home. The boat people have protested the policy, claiming they will be mistreated by the Vietnamese government when they return. 
Of the Vietnamese in Hong 
Kong, more than 20,000 have been declared non-refugees and more than 36,000 are waiting to be screened under a program monitored by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
Cltiftfle·A-icatl
•....,...,' 
~"-.. 

Authentic Szechua, Mandann & Hunan Cutsme 

SPECIAL CHINFSE 88 95 ra. flll4...1l:ll•l:...,. NEW YEAR BUFFET • ........ 1111 Lt...I:...
--~~~~····· ..... 

ALL YOU CAN EAT Children under 10 Half Price tnciUCieS Soup, Appettztr. 8 Entrees and Des8en (Otlw me<1u •IIJt'IIS MM! ,..a,IM~iw' 130 Dixie Way S., South Bend Cne•t to Randall's lrml 
MEDICAL WARNING: Failure to attend the Rankin MCAT course may be hazardous to your score. 
Last Chance to Sign Up 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
f 0 STUDENTS PER CLASS f 00 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS 
SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S 8c M.D.S 
SOUTH BEND 273-1866 


~ ---------~-----~---------~~---------~------. 
The Observer 

Tuesday, February 4, 1992 page 5 
Dahmer has urges to have sex 

Expert looks into 100 year old murder case
with cadavers, claims psychiatrist 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Jeffrey had sex with some of the tective Dennis Murphy, quoting 
FALL RIVER, Mass. (AP} -University. "We're trying to Dahmer had uncontrollable bodies. from Dahmer's confession. '"I 
Almost • a century after Lizzie give the Bordens a chance to urges to kill and have sex with Dahmer told police he killed wish I could turn back the 
Borden was accused in the ax say what rea.lly happened. It's dead bodies, but knew right '"for my own warped selfish years."' 
murdets of her parents, a like having a whole new jury from wrong, a defense psychia­desires for self-gratification,"' Dahmer's first victim was 18­
forensics expert scanned their in the case." trist testified Monday in the se­Murphy said. year-old Steven Hicks. Dahmer 
graves With radar Monday for Andrew and Abby Gray Bor­rial killer's insanity trial. Dahmer's attorneys are trying strangled him with a barbell in 
clues in one ofAmerica's most den, his second wife, were "I would think if a policeman to prove he suffers from mental 1978 after bringing him to the 
c~lebrated mysteries. killed on Aug. 4, 1892 ­were standing there watching illness. Under state law, they Dahmer family home in Bath, 
··Lizzie was acquitted in Abby in an upstairs room and him that he would be able ... to must prove the illness either Ohio, where Dahmer lived alone 
court but convicted in verse: her husband on a sofa where control his behavior," said Dr. prevented him from de­after his parents' divorce. 
"Lizzie Borden took an ax and he stretched out to nap. Fred Berlin, a specialist in sex­termining right from wrong or Dahmer, also 18 at the time, 
gave her mother 40 whacks. Liizie, a 32-year-old Sunday ual disorders. "The real issue made him unable to stop killing. killed Hicks because '"I didn't 
When she saw what she had school teacher, was acquitted is, when there isn't anyone else District Attorney E. Michael want him to leave,"' Murphy 
done, sh~ gave her father 41," on June 30, 1893. present to help him control his McCann said the prosecution's quoted from the confession. 
James Starts used the Starts said he hopes to have behavior ... can he then apply experts would testify that When initially questioned 
ground-penetrating radar to concrete findings in time for his own willpower to stop." Dahmer's behavior didn't fit the about Hicks' death, Murphy 
search the bill>at Oak Grove an Aug. 4 conference marking Because Dahmer has a definition of insanity. said a photograph and the 
t:;emetety where Lizzlei her the 100th anniversary of the "cancer of the mind," he lacks McCann told the jury last name "jogged his memory." 
father, stepmother, and sisters crime. such willpower, said Berlin of week that Dahmer, 31, was able "He remembered the name 
are buried. His first task was Community. reaction to Johns Hopkins University. to control his conduct so he because it was the first person 
t!)find the parents' skulls, Starrs' search was mixed, "I don't think the normal man could kill and not be caught. he killed," Murphy said. 
which were removed from the although dozens of people could even force himself to walk Following his July 22 arrest, Murphy completed reading 
bodies and displayed by the turned out Monday to watch. around thinking about having Dahmer confessed to killing 17 Dahmer's lengthy confession. 
Prosecutorin the triat "It was sort of like a sexual contact with dead young males. The detective began reading it 
lf the skulls are there, carnival atmosphere," said bodies," Berlin said. In earlier testimony Monday, Thursday. 
Starrs hopes to win Paul Fletcher, a planner of the During more than 60 a detective said Dahmer con­Dahmer has pleaded guilty 
p~rtnis.si(}l): frotn a court and Augu!>.t conference and a hours of police interviews, fessed that he remembered the but insane to the mutilation 
Bordens' · relatives to exhume professor at Bristol Dahmer detailed how he stran­name of his first victim, a teen­slayings of 15 young males in 
them, hoping modern· science Community College. "I was gled his victims, then often age hitchhiker he killed 14 Milwaukee County. If the jury 
IQigJ.\:t Shed light on the case. expecting to see someone skinned them, chopped them years ago, because '"you re­finds he was sane at the time of 
Starrs also has exhumed selling popcorn ... into "fist-size pieces," boiled member your first one."' the killings, he will receive a 
the body of Alferd Packer, the "1 just say let it rest," said and saved their skulls and ate '"That's where the whole mandatory life sentence for 
Coloradp ..•.. prospector Pat Richards, one of Fall parts of their bodies. He said he nightmare started,"' said De-each one. 
S[eeping tBeauty 
presentea 6y tlie Inaianapo[is '13a[[et 'Tiieatre 

suspected of resorting to River's park commissioners. cannibalism to keep alive "I wouldn't want someone during a snowstorm, abd of digging up my body after 100 Dr. Carl Austin Weiss, accused years." of assassinating Louisiana Gov. Huey Long. But Donald Souza, 34, a 
.. The•tadar found evidence of lifelong Fall River resident, two burial sites where the said: "We all grew up With the skulls might lie, but Starrs legend. I don't know who Said it Will take at h~4St a really did Jt. That's why we're month to analyze the findings. a.n here to find out." 
Starrs said he wants to see, 
among oth thil'J.gS; if Am9,ng the authorities on wounds in the ·ulls match · · the case, a 23~year·old book the blade of a shingling by Edward Radin concludes hatchet· found atthe Borden the Bordens· maid, BridgethOme and believed to be the Sullivan, fed up with anti­murder weapon. Irish bigotry, committed the 
f>,ianY ..... theories. have murders. emerged• about the crime. that· inspired l7 books, a inovie Those who blame the crime and even a ballet, This year, a on Lizzie Borden say her roo­local author added an tives may have been a long~ lllegitimate brother to the standing resentment toward suspects. her stepmother, a short, fat 
.0119v~ ll goo().>mystecy like· compulsive e!lter. they als(l everyone else," said StarTs, a say she may have feared her professor of law and forensics father would leave all his st;iel'J..ce at George Washingto,n .. money to his. wife, 
Cash-for-guns program collects 2,813 from teens 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -A cash­month. for-guns program to get Some of the $50 payments weapons out of teen-agers' have gone to families trying to hands has netted nearly 3,000 get guns out of their homes. A guns in four days, leaving offi­father and son turned in the cials scrambling on Monday to youth's handgun, Freeman said. find money to keep the drive Another man turned in a going. sawed-off shotgun he found 
As of Sunday, the program, under his granddaughter's bed, which pays $50 per weapon, suspecting she was keeping it had hauled in 2,813 guns. for a boyfriend who might be a About 60 percent of them were gang member. handguns, the target of the Freeman and Minneapolis program. Police Chief John Laux en­
Guns were being accepted at dorsed the program and lined 20 fire stations in Minneapolis up a coalition of neighborhood and several suburbs, no ques­supporters. Even the police tions asked. They aren't being union has gone along with it traced and Will be melted down. despite misgivings of some offi­
The initial budget of $150,000 cers who say it will do little to has been exhausted. It came get guns out of the hands of from drug forfeiture funds and criminals. from private donations. Officer Jim Kaju has said he 
"A guy just walked in and and other officers worry that it handed me a check for $1,000 could destroy evidence from while I was on the phone trying unsolved crimes. to raise money from someone But Freeman and Laux say else," said Hennepin County At­the program is a step in the torney Mike Freeman. "This right direction. went much quicker than we "There are 2,800 fewer guns ever thought it would." on the street. That number Will 
Freeman said he'll turn to make us feel a bit more secure corporate spo:J;Isors and others than we did last Wednesday," for additional money to pay for Freeman said. the guns. He hopes to raise Similar programs have been enough to keep the program tried in other cities with varying going through the end of the results. 

r---------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------~---------­
The Observer 
page 6 Tuesday, February 4, 1992 
Women of Kuwait campaign for the right to vote 
KUWAIT CITY (AP) -During the Iraqi occupation, Kuwaiti women were gunned down in protest marches and smuggled money and weapons for the re­sistance. 
A year later, they're fighting another campaign -for the right to vote. 
"Before the war, Kuwaiti women really didn't know what they were capable of," said Sundus Hussein, a computer programmer. She is an orga­nizer of the campaign. 
During Iraq's 1990 invasion, petroleum engineer Sara Akbar helped organize about a dozen Kuwait Oil Co. employees who kept enough oil pumping to maintain the machinery and keep the emirate in electricity. 
"I know men who wouldn't step out of their houses for the whole seven months" of the oc­cupation, she said, pulling sharply at the white scarf veil­ing her hair according to Is­lamic custom. "I knew then that women should have more share of the work ... Everybody should have a chance." 
Kuwait's seven opposition groups have been sympathetic and most have added women's rights to their platforms. For the first time, secular and Is­lamic women's groups are working together toward win­ning the vote. 
But women were barred from registering this month to vote in 

Off-campus senior Joe Cox works at a wet station yesterday for a Chemical Engineering lab, studying micro-chip processing. 
The Chinese Golden DragonAcrobats and Magicians of Taipei 
Thursday and Friday 
February 6 and 7 8:10pm Washington Hall 
Tickets $8-Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students 
$10-General Admission Group rates available LaFortune Center Box office 


October's parliamentary elections -the first since the emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al­Sabah, suspended the body in 1986 after vociferous criticism of government ministers. 
The initial goal of the women's campaign is to collect 100,000 signatures on a petition supporting their demand for the vote. 
They face a formidable battle in this conservative society be­cause many men and some women oppose the idea. 
"Kuwait is an Islamic country and women have to defer to Is­lam in their private and public affairs," Bahija Behbehani, a female junior college professor, wrote in a recent opinion col­
umn in the newspaper al­Qabas. 
Kuwait has long had a tradi­tion of being more tolerant than other Persian Gulf states. Many Kuwaiti women look at neighboring Saudi Arabia ­where women can't drive and must be fully veiled in public ­as backward. 
But women point out Kuwait lags behind Arab countries like Egypt, Algeria, Libya and Syria where women can vote and have been appointed govern­ment ministers. Even neighbor­ing Iran, whose 1979 Islamic revolution put women into mandatory Islamic dress and policed public mingling, has women in parliament. 
There are Kuwaiti women prominent in most fields. Women run banks and com­puter firms. A woman was just named managing editor of the newspaper AI-Watan. 
But no woman has risen higher than assistant undersec­retary in any government min­istry, and women don't get as many benefits as men, such as scholarships for study abroad. 
Under Kuwait's arcane citi­zenship laws, only those Kuwaiti men who can trace their ancestry in Kuwait back to 1920 are eligible to vote. That's only 90,000 people in an emirate that has an estimated population of 1.2 million. 

Healthcare plans stir opposition 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush's expected proposal to use limits on Medicare and Medicaid to help Americans buy private health insurance drew strong opposition Monday in Congress and among some health providers. 
Senate Finance Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, said it would be "bad policy and bad politics" to impose deep cuts in Medicare, which provides health coverage to 34 million elderly people, and Medicaid, which provides care to another 30 million poor Americans. 
"Further reductions in Medi­care on top of those imposed in the budget agreement will go nowhere in Congress," Bentsen said. "I believe they'll be re­jected out of hand by Republi­can and Democratic members alike." 
Bush is to announce his plan to overhaul the nation's health insurance system in a speech Thursday in Cleveland. Bush has already outlined plans for a $3,750 tax credit to help poor families purchase private in­surance, but he has provided few details, and his budget proposal for fiscal 1993 did not provide for a method to pay for it. 
Administration and congres­sional sources have confirmed that Bush's plan includes provi­sions to finance some of the cost through curbs on the federal contributions to the Medicaid and Medicare programs. 
One Republican congressional staffer, speaking only on condi­tion of anonymity, said the administration proposal would call for paying the tax credit to low-income families in the form of a voucher, good only for use in purchasing health care or coverage. 
But some health experts question whether even that will work. They say that it is unreal­istic to expect a family earning $12,000 to $16,000 a year to pay one-fourth or one-third of that on health insurance. 
"If it's a tax credit voucher, I think it's just going to be woe­fully inadequate," said Kenneth Thorpe, associate professor of health policy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
"At most, 20 percent of the uninsured would take them up on this. And I think that's a high estimate." 
Thorpe estimated no more than three million individuals would make use of the voucher to buy insurance. 
Medicaid, providing care for the poor, is run by the states with matching payments by the federal government of 50 per­cent or more of the costs of services to qualifying poor re­cipients. Limits on those pay­ments would further increase pressure on states that are al­ready strapped by soaring Medicaid costs. 
Cuts in Medicare, the pro­gram for the elderly, would 
·likely come in the form of limits on payments to hospitals and doctors. Experts and interest groups said that could lead some health providers to limit service to Medicare recipients, just as some doctors now avoid treating Medicaid patients be­cause rates of payment are low. 

Applications are now being taken for the: 
C11LPU1(.9lL '])Io/E/RSIPYSEMifJ\£521!1( 
CHICAGO: Spring Break, March 8-13, 1992 THEO 364F or soc 364F Join us for a unique experience of and reflection upon cultural diversity: 
PARTIAL SCHEDULE 
Sunday. March 8th 
Gospel Mass at Holy Angels Church 
Visit Scars Tower Observation Deck 
Orientation/Discussion over Chicago Style Pizza at Giordano's 
Monday. March 9th 

Visit Chicago Board of Trade (to discuss Futures Trading, etc.) Lunch at State of Illinois Building Tour of Mexican Murals Dinner at Cuemavaca Restaurant Blues at the The Checkerboard Lounge (optional) 
Tuesday. March lOth 
Neighborhood Tours Street Safety Workshop with Chimera (A women's self-defense organization) 
Wednesday. March 11th 
Tour of African American Communities Visit Dusable Museum of African American History Lunch: Soul Food Serve evening meal at the Franciscan Outreach Center 
Thursday. March 12th 
Visit Bucktown/Wicker Park Community 
Northwest Arts Council (to discuss the role of the arts in social change) Lunch at Polish Restaurant: The Busy Bee Puerto Rican Cultural Center Attend play by the Latino Chicago Theatre Company: Once Five Years Past 
Friday. March 13th 
Meeting with Msgr. Jack Egan (Chicago organizer and former Notre Dame administrator) to discuss Catholic Social Teachings, relevant issues Wrap-up over Chicago Pizza 
Return to Notre Dame in the afternoon 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar is organized by The Center for Social Concerns in conjunction with the Dept. of Sociology and the The Urban Life Center in Chicago. Applications are available at the Center and are due: Mon., Feb. 10, 1992 For further information, contact: Dr. Ja Brandenber er -239-5293 
----------~~------------~--------.., 
Tuesday, February 4, 1992 The Observer page 7 
US sends home first Haitian refugees to bleak future 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) -The United States sent home the first of thousands of Haitian refugees Monday, turning over 381 people to Haitian authorities and an uncertain future. 
U.N. officials and human rights advocates warned that many of the 12,000 boat people in U.S. custody face death or intimidation at the hands of Haitian security forces if they return to their towns and vil­lages. 
Officials at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where nearly all the Haitians are being held, said those who returned on two Coast Guard cutters Monday did so voluntar­ily, while others did not want to go back. 
Dozens in the first group said they had risked their lives flee­ing in rickety boats to get away from Haiti's poverty and not political persecution. 
"I was looking for a better life," said Roger Rochelle, a 30­

Accounting Majors 


summer,
startbui1 

year-old father of five who said he left Haiti in a small boat with other refugees on Nov. 13 and was picked up at sea Nov. 17. 
"I saw there was nothing to be gained in Guantanamo. I was homesick for my family," he said. 
The refugees, mostly young men, but also a few women and small children, came ashore clutching small bundles of clothes and other items given them at Guantanamo. Red Cross officials gave them $15 on arrival. 
The United States has denied asylum to most intercepted Haitians, saying they were not political refugees as U.S. law requires. The Supreme Court opened the way Friday for their repatriation by overturning a federal judge's order that had blocked their return for months. 
The repatriation caused an outcry among some politicians and advocates of the immi­grants who feel that these peo­ple would be exposed to politi­
your career With Aetna. 
We are looking for outstanding junior accounting majors to participate in our Internal Audit Department's summer internship program. 
A summer internship with us is an excellent first step toward Aetna's impressive career opportunities, an exceptional professional development program, direct involvement with top management, special consulting, fraud investigation assignments, and some travel. As a full time member of our staff after graduation, you can qualify for CPA licensing in Connecticut. 
Aetna was recently named by Fortune magazine and The Wall Street Journal as one of America's most admired companies. Our outstanding compensation, benefits and training programs were major reasons why. 
We are looking for individuals with proven analytical ability, effective communication skills, initiative, flexibility and creativity to join our large staff of audit professionals at our corporate headquarters in Hartford, Connecticut. We'd like to meet you and learn more about your expectations. Bring your resume and transcript to our information session on the following date: 
.,.. Information Session 

Wednesday, February 5 
4:00p.m. 

LaFortune Student Center 
Sorin Room 

Refreshments will be served 
Check with your Internship Office for further details. 


Aetna is an Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action Employer. 
cal reprisal on their return. 
"Had we been any other country -white or Spanish ­we would have had a chance," Florence Comeau of the Haitian Affairs Committee in New York said Monday. "The Cubans can come in any time. The Cubans are people, the Haitians are people, but one is light-skinned and the other is not." 
In Washington, White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwa­ter said the repatriation was being monitored by U.S. Em­bassy officers as well as repre­sentatives of the Organization of American States and the Red Cross. 
"We have received no credible reports of reprisals against any individual Haitians who at­tempted to reach the United States, including those who are repatriated after the coup" that toppled President Jean­Bertrand Aristide on Sept. 30, Fitzwater said. 
Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters in Washington that he did not expect "any serious problems." 
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees issued a statement at its Geneva headquarters criticizing the repatriation, warning that many returnees could "be exposed to danger." 
"Continuing reports of serious human rights abuses and violence by security forces since the overthrow of the democrat­ically elected government of Haiti are cause for great con­cern," it said. 
In London, the human rights group Amnesty International said the United States was re­sponsible for safeguarding the Haitian boat people. 
"We don't know that everyone is going to be arrested, tortured or killed, but it is certainly a risk," said spokeswoman Anita Tiessen. Amnesty reported last month that more than 1,500 people had been killed in Haiti since the coup in a systematic campaign of political repression. 
The Red Cross reported no serious illness among the boat people, although many said they had lost weight and were exhausted. 
Correction 

In Monday's Observer, Student Body Vice Presidential candidate Mike Goodwin's address was listed incorrectly. Goodwin resides off-campus as of this semester.The Observer 

d1rner d

SUr•.. Neede 
JielP. ~ric£1 
iJ1. ~co, Ecuador, Paraguay, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil 
Work • Share 
• Live • Learn 

You can have a summer full of adventure and personal growth whole improving health for the people of Latin 
America. 
Meeting for all those interested in becoming a 4, 6 or 8 wk summer volunteer Wednesday, Feb. 5th 7:30 in Lewis Hall Party Room. Contact Jen Babula @ 

~~ 
Application dealine: March 1, 1~ Incentives available for early comrrutrnatt 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, February 4, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor .•.•................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor ........••••..•... Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor .••.........•.. David Dieteman Production Manager ..........•. Jay Colucci Accent Editor .••.•............... John O'Brien Systems Manager ...•......•..... Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary•s Edltor .•.•....•••.Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 

AIDS victims should not be dismissed as 'immoral' 
Dear Editor: those that have AIDS. These cancer patients among others. In order to illustrate his dilemma," I would help 
Rick Acker's viewpoint col­are two different sets of A cost-benefit analysis would proposition, Mr. Acker com­whoever I could get to first umn (The Observer, Jan. 24) people. Then calculating its demonstrate that money spent pared the choice between and then run to the next demonstrated Mr. Acker's lack statistics the CDC does not on AIDS has yielded "fighting cancer and victim. I would not sit in judg­of understanding in the scien­include those that have tested ubiquitous benefits while Alzheimer's or fighting AIDS" ment of a dying person. tific and medical areas. It also HIV positive in the category of comparatively extracting to a choice between saving a Running through the entire illustrated that statistics, when AIDS patients. Further, it is minimal costs from the health drunk driver or saving a sober article is Mr . Acker's major taken out of context, can be unclear if this statistic care system. driver. Mr. Acker conceded premise that AIDS is used to support almost any represents patient care, Mr. Acker's next statistic that if possible all should be "preventable" and therefore conclusion. researcher hospitalization stated that 95% of AIDS pa­helped. However, he asserted undeserving of treatment. 
According to Mr. Acker's etc.. tients have contracted the dis­that if it is possible to only Taken to its logical conclusion article, "blameworthy" AIDS However, there is a much ease through "illegal drug use, save one of the parties the this argument means that we patients are receiVIng more fundamental reason why promiscuous sex and prostitu­sober driver should be spared. should not be treating lung disproportionate funding at this statistic is meaningless. tion." Thus, since, according Similarly, he stated that the cancer patients, skin cancer the expense of "blameless" Money spent on AIDS has de­to Mr. Acker, these people are cancer/Alzheimer's patient patients, heart disease cancer and Alzheimer's veloped a phenomenal body of "immoral" and should not re­should be saved before the patients, etc.. Most diseases patients. His article proposed research which is saving a ceive help, the other 5% are AIDS patient. are preventable. Fortunately, that since AIDS is "easily myriad of people. AIDS, insignificant. The way that Mr. Again, he failed to recognize however, the medical preventable" and generally Acquired Immune Deficiency Acker so lightly disregarded that techniques derived from profession is dedicated to only those that have Syndrome, attacks the the plight of hemophiliacs is AIDS research have served to saving people's lives rather performed "illegal or im­immune system so that it is revolting. It is estimated that save many other types of than judging people's moral" acts contract it, "the unable to ward ofT illness. 90% of all hemophiliacs are patients. Beyond this, the lifestyles. money and effort spent on Consequently, if someone HIV positive or have AIDS. In problem with this analogy is After reading Mr. Acker's ar­AIDS (would) be better used in has AIDS they will generally addition, Mr. Acker failed to twofold. ticle, I was appalled. His bold the fight against cancer and die of a secondary infection acknowledge the plight of First, Mr. Acker has defined use of CDC statistics was com­Alzheimer's." (pneumonia for example). newborn babies, health care the "innocent" and the "guilty" pletely taken out of context. 
Mr. Acker introduced his ar­Thus, by studying ways to workers, those that receive by his own value system. Further, he failed to recognize gument with the statistic that combat AIDS scientists have blood transfusions, or the Second, and more importantly, that AIDS research has helped "last year $750 per patient learned invaluable person whose spouse has an his point is absurd. Imagine if scientists to develop was spent fighting AIDS, $280 information about the entire extramarital affair. every time a patient entered techniques used in the per patient was spent fighting immune system The final statistic that Mr. the emergency room the understanding of cell cancer, and $220 per patient More specifically, there have Acker used is the proposition attending physician tried to functioning and the protection was spent fighting Alzheimer's been significant break that "19 out of 20 people" that "rate" patients according to of human life. disease." This statistic, while it throughs with respect to the catch AIDS had been engaged their degree of "fault" in By adding to the stigma of may be true, was taken out of function of T-cells (a subclass in something "immoral" when contributing to their injuries. the AIDS victim, Mr. Acker de­context and doesn't really of white blood cells that ward they caught the illness. Thus, Using Mr. Acker's priority creases the chance that those mean anything. off infection and disease). the logic goes, these people system in a chaotic emergency that have the illness will come 
At its most superficial level. Leukemia Lymphoma, Mycosis are "guilty" of something and room, a drug user would not forward and get help. it means that because there Fungoides (a disease of the don't deserve treatment. be put on a respirator, an AIDS does not discriminate, are approximately twenty white blood cells). gene This bold statement is attempted suicide would be all of us are potential victims. times more patients with therapy, and countless other frightening. Based on his left for dead, a skier would not When asking how to decrease cancer and close to that num­retro-viruses that take human personal and religious beliefs, have her leg reset, a person human suffering, perhaps we ber with Alzheimer's, as com­life. Mr. Acker dictated societal that forgot to signal at an should find more answers if pared to those with AIDS, that In addition, when a person standards for morality. intersection would not have we focused on helping those in when you divide the number has AIDS their body is Accordingly, Mr. Acker argued his wounds bandaged, etc ... need rather than blaming of patients into the amount of immuno-compromised in the that since we cannot help all At some level, we've all them. AIDS patients need money spent the figures same way as a patient people, the "immoral" people "contributed" to our ailments. help; they do not need any present this dis parity. It's receiving a bone marrow should not be treated. It is But. this is completely irrele­more pain. simple math. transplant or chemotherapy. amazing to think that in a vant; it is only important that 
Apparently, Mr. Acker has Thus, the "money and effort society striving for justice we sick people need help. If I Courtney Genco equated people that have spent on AIDS" has a direct continue to discriminate in were confronted with Mr. Notre Dame Law School tested positive for HIV with impact on saving the lives of this way. Acker's "drunk driver Jan.26,1992 

DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
fiJHATI c;a.rr I54YCAll­UNP!3RSTIWO 15 U5TtN TO SOM/3 OF WHAT HIM ON IT. (IJHYI Kt:EPGtr-He'S GOTTeN AWAYWITH.' I£THIM fiNl? 
'Floating in space,

7l/"of3 /?EA/r1W 8Y H/3 CAfA.nJ HITUI< "AN HIS ()(IJN BOY­7Ht /r1UJIA, tuH/tc !Nf?IVI!?UAI-OFGRffAT CWR.­HCOP H&Rf)f}3. 
I see God's face. 

FrrrBUCHANAN, AG/3,.. tx.mAORPINA!<Y WHO'S JUSTA5 (JJ.I­GIFTS." \ 
It's just some clouds. Oh well.'
:JjijAT!vt, 6E75 \ 
AfRUR!fJ8-' 
Too Much Joy (they're musicians) 

Ground control to Major Tom, submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,IN 46556 

--~ --~~-----·~-~--~--~ 
Accent 
Tuesday, February 4, 1992 page9 


William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's, works hard to accomodate students' needs 
By JULIE SCULLY and the second consecutive Hickey said the first Accent Writer year in which the institution PRISM survey was sent out was rated highest in its divi­in the spring of 1991 and 
Having spent nearly 30 sion in student satisfaction. concerned the issue of years at Saint Mary's College "This ranking is residence halls on the teaching in the classroom, immensely satisfying," said campus and more specifi­and serving as an Hickey, "especially for the cally, the parietals policy. administrator for the last six faculty." The students expressed years leading the College as The ratings are based on great dissatisfaction with the its president, William Hickey a survey of presidents, present system. is proud of the institution. deans, and admission One result of the survey is 
"I've literally made a officers from colleges the "Regina Parietals career out of this college," nationwide, which indicates Experiment," which has Hickey said, "so I know how that a college's peers allowed one wing in Regina good this institution is. But I recognize the institutions Hall to have the same 
don't think there are a lot of that are good at what they parietals policy as Augusta other people out there who do, according to Hickey. Hall and most dorms at realize the caliber of the "We take a great deal of Notre Dame. programs and the pride in these rankings," Also, Regina, which 
individuals here at Saint Hickey said, "because you consists of very small Mary's." can have the most beautiful, singles, now offers three By far, Hickey's favorite modern, up-to-date rooms to every two students 
job as president is~ buildings in the world, tree­who reside there. So far the marketing the College. This lined streets and flowers, response has been very gives him the opportunity to but if you don't have a positive. 
discuss the academic quality quality faculty, then you are The most recent change of the institution and its not going to have a quality took effect on January 15, goals. education to offer your stu­1992. The new policy allows 
Saint Mary's, Hickey said, dents." for male visitation from 1 0 has developed a unique Hickey added that the a.m.-12 a.m. on weekdays niche in the world of higher College's resources are 100 and from 10 a.m.-2 a.m. on 
education as a women's percent dedicated to under­weekends. Male visitors college of exceptional graduate education, giving must still leave their IDs at academic quality. This is Saint Mary's an advantage. the front desk of the resi­seen by the College's regular As president, Hickey is di­dence halls. appearances in listings of rectly involved in today's key Students also cited the nation's top colleges, issues at the college. Last finances as one of the including the latest U.S. year, in an effort to get more reasons they move off News & World Report input ·from students, he and campus. "We are constantly ratings. R. William Cash, the talking about changes we 
Last fall, Saint Mary's College's director of can make, but we still need 
placed third among 131 institutional research, to know more," admitted Midwestern colleges in U.S. developed the PRISM Hickey. News' annual survey of the (Prompt Response to "For example, what kinds American higher education. Improve Saint Mary's) of changes could we It was the College's sixth prograrri, a College implement to make the cost 
straight year in the top 10, community opinion poll. more comparable (to off-
William Hickey is president of Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's was recently ranked high among the nation's top colleges. 
campus housing), if the cost Hickey hopes to use that is really an issue? And if we survey to design steps and were to make the cost recommend changes that comparable, would the stu-will increase student safety. dents still move off-campus The survey will also be used simply because they feel it to reinforce what the college would provide them with has already begun to do. more independence?" He pointed out that 
A second residence hall Security Director Richard survey was issued this year Chlebek and a group of to give the students further student government officers opportunity to express their recently conducted a needs and level of campus walk to designate satisfaction, Hickey said. unsafe areas, such as those 
"Residence hall life is an poorly lit, hidden or isolated. important part of the Saint The safety improvement Mary's experience and if suggestions stemming from there is a drastic increase in the walk included the the number of students installation of more moving off-campus, the emergency phones, lights, character of Saint Mary's and trimming of hedges, College will change according to Hickey. An dramatically. additional security patrol 
This change will also have also has been added to the a fiscal impact, which, in the Angela Athletic Facility long run, could be parking lot. detrimental to the financial Hickey feels the future of integrity of the institution," Saint Mary's lies in he added. continuous change in 
Security on campus also relation to the issues and the has been a major issue, and continuing success of the was the focus of the first faculty which results in the PRISM survey of the 1991-quality education each 1992 academic year. student receives. 
'Shining Through' does not fool anyone 
By ELIZABETH HAYES 
Movie Critic 
Motion pictures are calculated to fool you. Unless it is a documentary, when you watch a film you are supposed suspend JOur disbelief of the improbability of the events and simply enjoy the movie. 
Really good movies fool you so much that you forget you are being fooled. Bad movies make it glaringly obvious that the silver screen is one big not very convincing fantasy. 
"Shining Through," is a lav­ishly produced, star-studded "sweeping saga" of the moment. It stars Melanie Griffith and Michael Douglas, with Liam Neeson and John Gielgud in supporting roles. It is a slightly unusual story of a young secretary (Griffith), who lands a job as a spy chiefly through her chutzpah and her ability to speak low-class German. 
In what should have been a comedy of errors, she exhibits her patent incompetence as a spy. She bumbles her way out of one house of an SS officer into another's. 
Shining Through 
Produced by Howard Rosenman and Carol Baum Directed by David Seltzer * 
(out of five) 
Now playing at Forum Theatres 
We are led to believe that she charms this cold-blooded Nazi so much that he overlooks her suspicious behavior and, when she nearly gets caught, believes her impassioned denials. All this without a security check! 
And if this were not enough, Griffith's heroics, we are sup­posed to believe, are possible because she has watched hun­dreds of war movies. 
The idea that the War Department would send a com­pletely untrained spy with her own agenda of activities into such a dangerous and highly sensitive situation as Nazi Berlin in 1941 is preposterous beyond description. 
The lengths wWch the gov­ernment, and her unlikely and decidedly unlikable lover/fellow spy (Douglas), will go to get her out are also exceedingly unconvincing. Furthermore, the ending, which I will not be so cruel as to reveal, (although you shouldn't waste your time or money finding out) is the most incredible of all. 

And if this were not enough, the acting is bad. Griffith's baby-doll simpering is more suited to a comic role than a dramatic one. Douglas has proven once again that he is not the actor his father was, and he would do well to stick with mindless action movies like "Romancing the Stone." 
These two amateurs are handsomely shown up by the masterful performance of Liam Neeson (you will remember him from "Darkman") who appears as the SS officer who employs Griffith. 
His character ironically be­comes the most likeable in the whole film. His flawless delivery and compelling good looks dominate his scenes, and make the viewer wish that he had a larger part in this movie. 
In short, nothing except Neeson and the noteworthy ap­pearance of John Gielgud dis­tinguish this film. Its storyline and direction are worthy of nothing above a made-for-tele­vision mini-series. It is trite, very drawn-out, and above all unbelievable. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1992 
page 10 
·-Top-ranked Duke to face toughest challenge at UNC 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C (AP) -by North Carolina coach Dean after Sunday's game at Atlanta, just want to go out and play best game of the season from After the December warmups Smith. noting that the joy of beating your hardest to beat them." the Tar Heels to beat the Blue and a preliminary run through Duke's winning streak this the Yellow Jackets on their floor Guard Hubert Davis can't Devils. the Atlantic Coast Conference, season is 17 following a 100-71 quickly faded. imagine this Duke-Carolina "We've got to play 40 minutes 
beating of Notre Dame "Now we can't even enjoy game being any more intense of the game," Salvadori said.
it's time for the main event ­
top-ranked Duke vs. North Saturday. The Tar Heels beat this," Smith said of the victory. than normal. "There's been some games Carolina. Georgia Tech 86-76 Sunday, "We have to go play Duke. They "I don't think it's a regular where we've had lapses. We The two play Wednesday raising their record to 15-3. have everybody back from last game even if they weren't num­can't do that against Duke. 
Wednesday's matchup is one year, basically." ber one," Davis said. "Duke and They take full advantage of that 
night at the Smith Center in the first of two regular-season of the few times North Carolina Smith noted he was missing Carolina have a special rivalry and get a big lead on us." 
most conferences can't match.
meetings. They'll close out the will be an underdog in the Rick Fox, King Rice, Pete 
season March 8 at Durham. Smith Center. The Blue Devils Chilcutt and Clifford Rozier. The Seeing the guys outside the North Carolina won the last have been winning by an aver­players who did return, basketball realm makes it so battle 96-7 4 in the final of the age of 20 points per game. however, are looking forward to much more exciting to play." 
1991 ACC tournament. If comparative scores matter, the challenge. Nevertheless, Davis said a 
But Duke hasn't lost since, Duke beat the Fighting Irish by "It's a huge game; it's a huge victory Wednesday would mean and that includes winning the 29 points; Notre Dame upset rivalry," center Kevin Salvadori a little extra, even more than NCAA championship. The North Carolina 88-76. said. "We look forward to it the wins he's experienced streak is at 23 games, an "If you look at comparative every year. Some games you against Duke in previous years. achievement by coach Mike scores, what was Notre Dame, have to help yourself get ready, "It would be an incredible win Krzyzewski which outstrips a 40 points (difference)?" North to get excited, get pumped up. for us," Davis said. pair of 21-game streaks posted Carolina coach Dean Smith said This game, it just happens. You Salvadori said it will take the 
WE AMERICAN HEART ASSG::IATION MEMORIAL PR<ERAM., 
~~ 

American Heart ft 
Association -y-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 
309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds 
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  LOST: Gold chain with half heart pendant. Monday  Summer internships -Average earnings $4,000.00. University  TICKETS  HEY LA!  Irish Music and Dance Every Tuesday at Club 23  
evening between SOH & JACC.  Directories, the nation's largest  BR-ILB  SEAMAISIN  
VERY SENTIMENTALIII  publisher of campus telephone  Need to buy  
USED TEXTBOOKS!  Call Ryan x1134.  directories, hires over 250 college  NO vs MICH  Just remember, this lounge is for  
Buy & Sell Books  students for their summer  B-Ball lix  visiting only. NOT!  michael -bologna sandwiches and  
Pandora's Books  experience in advertising, sales and  Pal #3360  beef jerky, that's what I've seen for  
3 blks. from NO  Lost: sterling silver ring  public relations selling yellow page  Cheryl, you are definitely a PS, but  15 years -monk  
233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun  with gold plating on front  advertising for your campus  look out for lOP!  
and round blue lapis stone.  telephone directory. Positions also  NEED 3 TICKETS FOR ND-MICH  
Sentimental value. If found,  available in other university  B-BALLII  Because dulac gives you what you  
VALENTINE GLAMOUR. Give the  please call at X2948.  markets. Expense paid training  CALL BETH 284-4409.  Hey, BAFA Babel  want- 
best valentine of all YOURSELF!  program in Chapel Hill, N.C.  Have a killer birthday!  Because it's a ploy­ 
GLAMOUR portraits by nationally  Looking for enthusiastic, goal  He's just a man. He's just one  Because we vetoed it.  
published model photographer.  LOST 1129 BTWN PE & JACC or at  oriented students for challenging,  NEED 4 ND-MICH B-BALL TIXS.  more.  
Free brochure. Joe Ringer. 287­ DePaul gm :gold neclace w/2  well-paying summer job.  CALL JOHN 273-9165  Love, The Blond Assasin from  
0613.  charms-" A" &lg"#1" If found Call  Internships may be available.  Hell  To the hitchhikers in Dillon,  
1715 of great personal value.  Interviews on campus Thursday,  Get some sticks and reveal  
SPRING BREAK DAYTONA  February 13th. Sign up at the Career Center, Hesburgh Library.  Need Mich-ND tix in a BIG way!  ·rN·o·  yourselves or you will never discover our true abilities.  
Stay Where the Action is ....... Oceanfront accomodations I 701 South Nightclub. (as seen on MTV) from $75.00. 18 and older welcome. Call today 1-800-633­ Stolen: From the Rockne, navy NO nylon sports jacket w/ gold sleeves, leprechaun patch, NO lettering, and wallet and keys. Valuables  Derek X1374 FOR RENT I orx1373 ~--------~ I PERSONAL  TROOP NOTRE DAME Open dance classes Tuesdays 8 -9 rm. 219 at the Rock *T*N*D*  Emily, Jodi, and Jill while you're KILLIN' TIME, i'm left FISH IN' IN THE DARK  
7010.  sorely needed returned. No  FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH  _  
questions asked, no grudges held.  TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN.  
Reward. Call Steve 1131.  FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  To Stanford Hall:  to the Playpen:  
TYPING AVAILABLE  LAST+ SEC. 684-3778.  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  For things that go beep very  Roses are red  
287-4082.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  loudly in the night. We apologize.  Violets are blue  
LOST: Plastic 1.0. Case with  289-1993. Office near campus.  p&e  You have Buddha 1  
Driver's License, Sr. Bar Card, and  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  And we have a Buddha 2  
SUMMER JOBS  Vali-Dine.  If found, please call  219-291-7153.  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Michelle X1280.  SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER  Quinn,  
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  VACATIONS!  Did you have to hit the damn  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR  HOMES FOR RENT  Jamaica, Bahamas including  thing so hard? I realize it was loud  HOWARD HALL SPIRIT WEEK:  
LAKE PLACID. CALL 1-800-786­ Found: 2 dorm keys in North quad,  WALK TO CAMPUS  airfare, great hotel, and much more  and annoying and wouldn't quit no  TUESDAY:  
8373  near dining hall. Call Joe x1153 to  232-3616  from only $599. Buy from the #1  matter what you did to it. Well, I  Show us your Olympic skill down at  
identify.  name you trust for quality vacations.  think leaving the door closed was a  the lanes. Join us at Beacon Bowl  
FAST EASY INCOME!  6-7 BEDROOM HOME.SECURITY  FOUR SEASONS 1-800-331-3136.  good move. I hope Rob's arms still aren't tired.  from 9-11 pm. Let the games begin! * •• * * •••• * * * ••••••••••••  
Earn 1OO's Weeekly Stuffing  WANTED  ALARM.FURNISHED.WALK TO  Rip  
envelopes. Send self-addressed  CAMPUS.FOR 1992-93.272-6306  
stamped envelope to: Extra income!  ADOPT -Devoted father, full-lime  7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE  
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL  CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO  mother seek newborn to join family.  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  FROM $199-CALL JAMES 277­ 
60681-1699  AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL  Downtown Mishawaka office for  We promise your baby love and  Info on semester, year, graduate,  9249  
QUALITY MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE  lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.)  understanding, a good education &  summer and internship programs in  
CALL 283-371 0 BY FEBRUARY 11.  900 sq. ft.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a  fun. Supportive grandparents.  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  
The Women's Care Center I  month. Call 272-6877.  Legal. Call Bev & Howard  Melbourne. Programs start at  HEY B.P. A.A.'S:  
Pregnancy help Center is holding a  COLLECT 914-235-3917.  $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696.  I hear that you're going to be  
training session for volunteer  need ride to PITI for JPW.will help  FIREDIII WOOPSI  
counselors during the weekend of  w/ gas/toll. Tiffany X3861  Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's  
February 14,15, & 16 on the Notre  families. 2 bedrooms, private bath.  CAMPUS BANDS WANTED TO  The Lizard King lives on! Down with  
Dame campus. Anyone interested  Ten minutes from campus. Safest  AUDITION FOR PROFESSIONAL  the Crustaceans I  garth brooks is an overrated  
should call the Center at 255-4595.  ND-SMC couple '81 offering FREE  neighborhood in area 234-2626.  QUALil'Y MUSIC VIDEO. PLEASE  drugstore cowboy.  
ROOM AND BOARD for part-lime  CALL 283-3710 BY FEBRUARY 11.  -Willie, Waylon, and the boys  
summer help with toddlers.  If space and lime are curved, where  
Student volunteers wanted to help  Barrington, IL area. Call 708-428­ "CLOSE TO CAMPUS 5  did all the straight people come  
raise money for local pregnancy  1051.  BEDROOM FUNISHED HOUSE. 5  George Loves Rachel  from?  DOWN WITH 309 KNOTII.@$%&1#  
help center. The Women's Care  OR 6 STARTING AUGUST '92  Tom Loves Maul  
Center Is holding its annual phone­ AND/OR THIS SUMMER. DRIVE  Hal  Write GL••tsMC for info: Box 194,  
a-than Feb.1 0-13 & Feb. 17-20 from  SUMMER JOBSII Camp Birchwood  BY 605 N. ST PETER. FOR  Notre Dame, IN 46556  
6 p.m. to 9 p.m. We could use your  and Gunflint Wilderness Camp, two  DETAILS AND TO SEE CALL 289­ 
help any or all nights. If interested  of Minnesota's finest summer youth  6146.  SPRINGBREAK SAILING  
please call Michelle at 255-4595  camps, seek college students to  BAHAMAS 48ft Luxury Yachts/  Monk: you protect abusive  
work as counselors and instructors.  Groups of 6. Seven Days Barefoot  homosexuals and refuse the rights  
LOST/FOUND  Employment June 8 to August 13. For an application and interview call 1-800-451-5270.  FOR SALE  Sailing The Bahamas. All Inclusive With Cabin & Meals $488 Each. CALL ANYTIME. 1-800-999-7245.  of healthy ones. Could you please explain?-Michael  
FOR SALE: 19ft. 87 Bayliner boat  
LOST a pair of clear pink  with Force 125 hp Outboard. One-•  
glasses in a pink case  $40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and  owner, excellent condition. Lots of  WHO IS THE REAL LIZARD KING?  Why isn't your dorm a Safe Haven?  
between Galvin and Farley  TV Scripts. Fill out simple  extras including full leather canvas.  OF COURSE....ITS BOSKII  Why isn't your class a Safe Haven?  
on 1121  If found please call  "like/don't like" form.  EASY! Fun,  Asking  Why isn't your organization a Safe  
Carolyn X4053  relaxing at home, beach, vacations.  $7, 900 or best offer. Call 239-7005  Haven? Take care of yourself and  
Guaranteed paycheck.  FREE 24  or 232-7175.  MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL  your friends: do something about it!  
Hour Recording 801-379-2925  
FOUND: Mini 35 mm camera outfit.  Copyright #IN11 KEB  Start making your movies for the 4th  
Was found just before Christmas  Mac Classic 2MB I 40 MB HD  annual Film-Fest.  7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD  
break. Call Joe at x1208.  Word 4.0 & More Software  CASH PRIZE for winner.  CONTEST. FEB 8TH. 7:30 P.M.  
FOUND: MONEY IN HUDDLE. SEE ONE OF THE MANAGERS IN THE  YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING BREAK IN JAMAICA/CANCUN, FROM $4291 INCLUDES HOTEL,  Brand New $1200 or best off. Chuck x3677  It will be on February 28th with films due the 23rd. Check with your hall president to be  WASHINGTON HALL TICKETS CAN BE PURCHASED AT LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE OR IN STANFORD HALL ROOMS 119  DAYTONA BEACH SOUTH PADilE ISLAND STEAMBOAT  ..~.'104 "Mo'l28 .•. 1122  
HUDDLE TO CLAIM.  AIR, TRANSFERS.  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  your dorm's rep. or call 3593 for  AND 223 FOR $3.00. ALL  PANAMA CITY BEACH  .... 1122  
Found: A set of keys on a Notre Dame key chain outside the JACC  SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­7710.  89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, 87 MERCEDES $100, 65 MUSTANG $50. Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE 24  more info. MORRISSEY FILM FESTIVAL  PROCEEDS BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER. This years' contestants include: 1 . Mike Donnino  FOitT LAUDERDALE HEAD ISLAND MUSTANG ISLAND I POitT AltANSAS  ·~'U& "m•'Jf9 ·~'128  
last Friday night. To claim call x2963  SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona,  Hour Recording Reveals Details  2. Bill Kempf  DONT WAIT Til IT'S TOO ur•  
$149, Cancun $489, Bahamas  801-379-2929 Copyright I#  3. Kevin Monahan  
$449.  1N11KJC  SMEGMACALIFRADGILISTICEX­ 4. Joel Link  11th Annual  
Lost: Eye glasses andlin a black  Best prices & accommodations  PIALIDOCIOUS, EVEN THOUGH  5. Chris Peterson  Celebratlanl  
soft case.  Lost on 1129 possibly  guaranteed !II  1 (800) 724-1555 or  Weider bench and weights,  THE SOUND OF IT IS  COME CHEER ON YOUR  TOll FREE INFORMATION & RESEIIYATIONS  
between Flanner and JACC. Contact Joe at x-1581  236-5825 (24 hrs.)  Hardly used, 5 months old. $45.00. call at 277-9354.  SOMETHING QUITE ATROCIOUS.  FAVORITE STUDS Ill  1·800·321·5911  

Tuesday, February 4, 1992 
page 11 


SCOREBOARD 
TRANSACTIONS AlP MONEY LEADERS
NBA STANDINGS 
BASEBALL EASTERN CONFERENCE 1. Jim Courier $278,850American League Atlantic Dlvialon 2. Stefan Edberg $141,735KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Signed Curt Young, w L Pd CB L10 Streak Home Away Conf 3. Richard Krajicek $88,435pitcher, to a minor-league contract. New York 28 16 .636 6-4 Lost 1 16-5 12-11 20-11 4. Wayne Ferreira $82.833
SEATTLE MARINERS-Signed Jim Acker, Boston 27 18 .600 1 112 6-4 Lost 2 18-6 9-12 17-13 5. Mark Woodforde $73,120pitcher, to a minor-league contract. Philadelphia 23 23 .500 6 7-3 Won 2 16-8 7-15 15-16 6. Todd Woodbridge $66,830National League Miami 22 24 .478 7 7·3 Won 1 17-6 5-18 16-14 7. Emilio Sanchez $82,803CHICAGO CUBS-Agreed to terms with Jerome New Jersey 19 26 .422 9112 5-5 Lost 5 13-10 6-16 10-17 8. Michael Stich $40,020Wahon, outfielder, on a one-year contract. Washington 15 29 .341 13 2-8 Won 1 7-16 8-13 8-20 9. Christian Bergstrom $39,715CINCINNATI RED5-Agreed to terms whh Bob Orlando 11 35 .239 18 3-7 Lost 5 7-15 4-20 8-19 10. Ivan Lend I $39,555Geren, catcher, and Tim Pugh, pitcher, on one-year 11. Amos Mansdorf $36,960contracts. Central Diviaion 12. John McEnroe $36,250LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Agreed to terms Chicago 39 7 .848 8-2 Won 2 21-2 18-5 24-3 13. Goran lvanisavic $35,620with Stan Javier, outfielder, on a one-year contract. Cleveland 30 13 .698 7112 6-4 Won 3 19-4 11-9 23-7 14. Omar Camporese $35,115SAN DIEGO PADRES-Agreed to terms with Detroit 26 20 .565 13 6-4 Won 2 14-9 12-11 15-14 15. David Wheaton $33,790Darrln Jackson, outfielder, on a one-year contract. Atlanta 23 23 .500 16 4-6 Lost 3 14-8 9-15 11-15 16. Marc Rossel $32,888SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to terms w~h Milwaukee 21 23 .477 17 4-6 Won 2 16-6 5-17 13-14 17. Kelly Jones $32,833Kirt Manwaring, calcher, on a one-year contract. ndiana 18 29 .383 21 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 13-10 5-19 10-17 18. MaJIVai Washington $32,405New York-Penn League Charlotte 12 33 .267 26 1/2 2-8 Lost 3 8-14 4-19 8-19 19. Jeff Tarango $31,860UTICA BLUE SOX-Named Fred Kendall 20. Alexander Volkov $29,175manager; Bill Ballou and Charlie Culberson WESTERN CONFERENCE
4 UCLA 15-1 1,410 2 
21. Rick Leach $28,563coaches; and Rick Ray trainer. Midweat Divialon 22. Guy Forget $28,195BASKETBALL w L Pd C?B L10 Streak Home Away Coni
··~ M~~ji@ H4lAW 71 
23. Jaime Yzaga $26,7806 Indiana 15-3 1,212 4 
National Baaketball Association Utah 30 17 .638 8-2 Won 3 19-2 11-15 18-7 24. Wally Masur $26,688NBA-Suspended Sidney Green, San Antonio San Antonio 26 18 .591 2112 6-4 Won 4 15-5 11-13 17-11 25. Aaron Krickstein $26,410
•t <A~~t?.ri# t§;J:. Ht® ~· 
lorward,for one game and lined him $10,000 for Houston 25 20 .556 4 6-4 Won 1 16-7 9-13 14-10 
26. Jan Siemerink $25,5808 Ohio St. 14-3 1,164 10 
flagrantly fouling Minnesota forward Gerald Glass Denver 17 28 .378 12 3-7 Lost 4 14·11 3-17 10-20 
27. John F~zgeraid $24,520in a game last Friday. Dallas 13 31 .295 15 112 1-9 Lost 5 8-16 5-15 8-16 
28. Carl-Uwe Steeb $22,535
•·.. 9. ~¢~~"'#1~~ Wtl~ .At 
GOLDEN STATE WARRIORs-Named Jaren Minnesota 8 37 .178 21 t-9 Won 1 6-17 2-20 6-23 
29. Lars Koslowski $22,30510 Connecticut 16-2 1,017 6 
Jackson, guatd, to a second 10-day contract. 
30. Andrei Chesnokov $21,965Continental Basketball Aaaociation Pacific Diviaio 31. Markus Zoecke $20,740GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Traded Treg Lee, Portland 31 13 .705 9-1 Won 6 20-5 11-8 14-9
n .Mi~i'lioiJri·s; .t+~ ~® JM 
32. Thomas Muster $19,76012 Missouri 14-3 872 8 
forward, to the Fort Wayne Fury lor an undisclosed Golden State 29 13 .690 1 7-3 Won 3 14-7 15-6 19-10 33. Gilad Bloom $19,335amount of cash; placed Mark Stevenson, gurad, on Phoenix 30 16 .652 2 7-3 Won 1 18-3 12-i3 19-8 34. Grant Connell $18,993
···ta !:W"*cuse · • J~a liD? \1:it.i 
suspended reserve list. LA Lakers 27 17 .614 4 7-3 Lost 1 15-7 12-10 17-11 
35. Scott Davis $18,95014 Tulane 16-1 732 16 
FOOTBALL Seattle 23 24 .489 9 112 4-6 Won 1 12-10 11-14 14·11 36. David Pate $18,860National Football League LA Clippers 21 24 .467 101/2 3-7 Won 1 15-8 6-16 11-16 37. Michlel Schapers $18,531
u Mi~l-119¥ t?.i~ ~$ JM 
BUFFALO BILLs-Named Dan Sekanovich Sacramento 14 31 .311 17 1/2 4-6 Lost 1 11-9 3-22 6-21 
38. Patrick McEnroe $18,39816 Southern Cat 14-3 512 25 
defensive line coach and Jim Shofner 39. Karsten Braasch $18,160quarterbacks coach. Saturday'• Gamea Monday's Gamea 40. Paul Haarhuis $17,470
····n l!~v ····. JB"a At#:) 21 
MINNESOTA VIKINGS-Named Jack Burns Philadelphia 126, Boston 11 0 Late Games Not Included 41. Richey Reneberg $16,743offensive coordinator. Detroit 89, Atlanta 60 Golden State 122, Orlando t 14 42. Jared Palmer $16,610
18 Alabama 17-4 461 22 
NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS-Signed Reggie Utah 104. Dallas 90 Seattle 112, Atlanta 110 43. Simon Youl $16,580
1§••• l(.jf11lJ¢ky A.~& M~ • Hi 
Clark. linebacker. Phoenix 106, Houston 92 Minnesota 114, Denver 99 44. Jim Grabb $15,543PITISBURGH STEELERS-Named Pat Hodgson LA Clippers 99, New Jersey 88 Houston 122, Indiana 111 45. Olivier Delaitre 
20 N.C. Charlotte 15-3 442 17 
$15,500tight ends roach. Sunday's Gamea Chicago at Utah, (n) 46. Jonathan Stark $15,140HOCKEY Golden State 120, New York 113 LA Lakers at Phoenix, (n)

21 Ol@l'ioma 14~4 AP1 •J~ 
47. J avler Sanchez $14,618National Hockey League Washington 114, Orlando 104 Dallas at Sacramento, (n) 48. Jacco Ehingh $14,523
22 LSU 13-4 379 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Called up Boris Cleveland 106, Minnesota 95 Tuesday'• Gamea 49. Bryan Shelton $14,365Rousson, goalie. from Binghamton of the American Milwaukee 122. Seattle 106 Miami at New York, 7:30p.m. 
2~ Floii~itst, i4_.s•• ~oo >??: 
50. Goran Prpic $13,325Hockey League. Chicago 103, LA Lakers 97 Washington at Charlotte, 7:30 p.m. 
24 Georgia Tech~ 15-6 236 20 
QUEBEC NORDIQUES-Sent Ron Tugnutt, M iarri 118, Charlotte 1 00 Portland at San Antonio. 8:30 p.m. 
goalie, and Alexei Gusarov, defenseman, to Indiana 128, Denver 122 Dallas at LA Clippers, 10:30 p.m. HaiHax ol the American Hockey League. Called up Portland 147, Sacramento 107 
AP John Tanner, goalie, from Halifax. 
2s Taxas-EI Paso iS"~ >Jtt d~\ 
Campus Ministry... ...Considerations 
Weekend Gatherings 
The questions cannot be sidestepped, the struggle can not be avoided. 
The Scriptures are read and the name of Jesus is invoked so often 
around here that each of us must find the forum we need to talk with 
Last weekend I travelled down to Tippicanoe River State Park to spend others about how we will live, or else we'll just move ahead apologetictime and share some ideas with a group of 35 undergraduates from 
and confused. 
CILA, a group of young Christians concerned about social action. The group had put the program together themselves and the dining hall had 
I was impressed with that group of students who went away on their own
given them carryout food for the occasion. It cost them just about and got some time to talk about how they might live as they grow. I wasnothing moneywise. What the cabins lacked in comfort and heat was grateful to share conversation with my friends off campus about howcompensated for by the fervor and friendship shared as the group tried their life may work out after graduation. It's amazing to think that our to understand more fully how the Holy Spirit is at work in their lives. 
alums are still struggling with the same issues and questions, many years down the line. 
On Sunday evening I went to the house of old friends off campus to be part of a home liturgy and to share in a fine meal. After hearing the 
More of us need to dig in on these issues now, while we have the time
Word and sharing the Sacrament around the flashy picnic table which and friendly support, and examine our faith and our actions, and imaginedominates their dining room, we polished off the spaghetti carbonara, our lifestyles and their implications. More of us need to spend time and turned our thoughts to the heavy '2nd semester senior concerns.' 
together, talking about what is most important.
"Why should I apologize if my talents are gonna bring me a lot of 
wealth?" "Why can't I love my own family first and most and provide for 
So grab some friends and go rent a cabin. Talk all night about what you
their benefit, and then give to charity?" "I did a summer service project believe and how you will live. And just let the rest of us know if we can and urban plunge, but what does that have to do with my future now?" 
be of any help.
The conversation went on into the night. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C.
Apparently, such concerns don't disappear with graduation either. 
Monday's Observer reported that as a part of its Sesquicentennial programming, the Center for Social Concerns sponsored a forum last weekend for about 40 Notre Dame alums, who carry the role in their local alumni clubs of being Social Concerns Commissioners. They heard from Fr. Himes and others about the importance of justice and the commitment to social action. It seems it was a useful gathering and the conversation pointed to the ongoing struggle we must all expect if we seek to put the Gospel at the center of our lives. 

Can we get comfortable in nice, clean suburbs and then do a little volunteer work downtown on the side? If we do Christmas in April this year, what will they ask of us next? Our alums bumped head-on into the 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASD.ICA 
endless call of the Gospel , and the deep personal challenge to move 
from charity to justice. 
Sat. February 8 5:00pm Fr. Robert Moss, C.S.C. 
-
Notre Dame is often called special. The campus is beautiful. The faculty 
Sun. February 9 -10:00 am Fr. John Lahey, C.S.C.
and staff are dedicated. The students are all top-drawer. At the heart of 
-11:45 am Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C.
the whole enterprise is the desire to live and work for what is most important -to find meaning in life through the proper integration of our faith and of our actions. 

·-~-------­
I 

212 11%7 Point. 1. (1) Duke (21] -17-0 525 2. (3) Oklahoma State 20-0 502 
I ThePerfectHideout 

page 12 The Observer 
Prosecution nears end of case in Tyson rape trial 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A 
teen-age beauty contestant 
blurted out, " 'He raped me!"' 
and looked as if "something 
had taken her soul away," an­
other pageant participant 
testified Monday in boxer Mike 
Tyson's trial. 
"She said she felt so stupid. She just wouldn't stop talking," Stacy Murphy told the Marion Superior Court jury. 
"I just wanted to comfort her. I didn't know what to do. I knew she needed help, and I knew I couldn't help her." 
The prosecution neared the end of its case as the trial en­tered its second week. 
Tyson, 25, is charged with rape, confinement and criminal deviate conduct. If convicted, he faces up to 63 years in prison. The defense maintains that the woman consented to sex and has implied that the former heavyweight boxing champion will testify. 
In six hours of testimony last week, Tyson's accuser said he pinned her on a bed July 19, stripped her, raped her and laughed while she cried in pain and begged him to stop. 
Murphy said she and the 18­year-old woman became friends during the Miss Black America pageant and joked about how neither had any rhythm during dance rehearsals. 
At rehearsal on July 19, however, Murphy said the woman seemed more preoccupied than ever and told her about being raped. 
"I asked her what was wrong with her, and she turned around and looked at me," Murphy said. "People say a look says so much -this look said it all. She didn't even look like herself. She was like a zombie, like something had taken her soul away." 
During cross-examination, Murphy said the woman gave her few details, but "she told me she kept telling him to stop, that she kept telling him 'no,' and he wouldn't stop." 
Pageant contestant Charisse 

3. (6) Kansas 4, (2) UCLA 5. (7) Arkansas 6. (4) Indiana 7, (9) Arizona 8, (8) Ohio State 9. (11) Missouri 
10. (10) North Carolina 11. (13) Syracuse 12. (5) Connecticut 
13. (16) Michigan State 14. (12) Kentucky 15. (19) Tulane 16. (15) Michigan 17. (20) UNC-Char1one 18. (14) Alabama 19. (18) Oklahoma 
20. 
(17) Georgia Tech 

21. 
(-) usc 22. (25) UNLV 


23. (-) Florida State 
24, (21) UTEP 25. (24) Louisville 
• 
Other• rec:elvlng vote•: St John's 34, LSU 28, Seton Hall 17, complete kitchen, Southern Mississippi 9, Brigham Young 7, TCU 6, Houston 4, Iowa 4, 
complimentary breakfast

Massachusetts 4, Utah 4, Bali State 3, Stanford 3, Wake Forest 3, 
-I
Wisconsin-Green Bay 3, Pittsburgh 2, Washington State 2, Western and so much more. All Michigan 2, Butler 1, Georgetown 1, Iowa State 1, Manhattan 1, 
at the price you'd expect

Minnesota 1 , Princeton 1 , South Aorida 1 , Xavier 1. 
for an ordinary hotel
I 

School• participating: Arizona, Ball State, Brigham Young, 
I 
room. lt1sthe perfect
Colorado, Columbia, Duke, Florida, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Nebraska, Notre Dame, Oregon State, Penn, Penn State, Purdue, hideout. 
Southern Cal, Syracuse, Texas, Utah, Virginia, 

Mike Tyson 
Nelson said she was the first 
to hear of the alleged rape. 
"She said, 'I was with (Tyson) last night and he raped me.' I said, 'Take him to jail,"' Nelson said. 
Defense attorney F. Lane Heard Ill tried to establish that Tyson's remarks and behavior during the pageant rehearsals made it clear that he was interested in having sex. 
Nelson said Tyson "placed his hand around my waist and was squeezing and rubbing a bit, and I said 'Stop it!' And he did." 
Nelson said at one point, the boxer came up behind her and said, "Don't bend over," and also said, "What I could do with you!" 

Nelson said she later asked Tyson, "Why are you acting like this in public? 
"He said, 'When I come to your city, I'm going to dis you,"' meaning that he would totally ignore her. "And I said, I wish you would," she testified. 
In other testimony Monday, forensic scientist Mohammed Tahir said he found blood and saliva on the pink polka-dot underwear Tyson's accuser wore the morning she says the boxer raped her. 
Semen found on the bed­spread in Tyson's room, how­ever, could not have come from Tyson, Tahir said. 
Dr. Thomas Richardson, an emergency room physician who examined the woman the day after the encounter, testified Saturday that he found two small vaginal abrasions consistent with forced intercourse. 
16·1 15-1 17-3 15-3 15-3 14-3 14-3 15-3 15·3 16·2 14-3 15-5 16-1 12-5 15·3 17-4 14-4 15-6 14-3 18·2 14-5 16-3 12·6 

U.S. Davis Cup lineup unsettled 
KOHALA COAST, Hawaii (AP) -How does the No. 2 tennis player in the world fit into the 
U.S. Davis Cup picture? That's the question American coac~1 Tom Gorman must answer be­fore the Americans play Czechoslovakia in next month's quarterfinal. 
The Americans beat Argentina S-0 last weekend to win their first-round match at the Mauna Lani Bay Racquet Club. They did it without No. 2 Jim Courier, using a team of Pete Sampras, Andre Agassi, John McEnroe and Rick Leach. 
Gorman used 11 players in the 1991 Davis Cup and promises to limit the number of players this year. He said Courier is in the team's plans. Barring injury, Gorman must decide whether to break up the newly formed tandem of McEnroe and Leach or drop Agassi or Sampras. 
"The ultimate goal would be to come in with our four best players," Gorman said. "The understanding is that the play­ers that will play will be the guys that deserve to play." 
Agassi volunteered Sunday to be a "super clapper type guy" next month against 
AT THE RONKIN EDUCATIONAL GROUP OUR CLASS SIZES ARE LIMITED TO NO MORE THAN 10 STUDENTS PER CLASS. SIGN UP NOW FOR PREPARATION COURSE FOR SUMMER I.SAT 
This example of personalized attentmn lS JUSt one of the reasons our classes are filling up fast. Call now to reserve a seat. 
• 
40 Hours Of Live Instruction 

• 
Live Thtorial Available At No Extra Charge 

• 
National 800 Telephone Helpline 

• 
6 Diagnostic/Practice Exams 

• 
Constantly Updated Materials 


WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
Tuesday, February 4, 1992
The Davis Cu_p_________ 
World group 
With the hope of making the elite world group in 1993, 77 other countries are playing In six zone group tournaments this year for a total of 93. Shown here is the 1992 world group. 
1st Round 

2nd Round 
Jan. 31-Feb. 2 

Czechoslovakia. Sampras said he very much wants to play but "wouldn't lose any sleep" if he isn't. 
"If they wanted me to play, I'd sure be there for them, and if they didn't want me to play, I'd sure be there for them," Agassi said. "I just love being part of Davis Cup. Would Courier be willing to come on the team and 
l;liKII
EDUCATIOIAL GROUP 273-1866 US 31 North 

not play? Would Sampras be willing to have Courier come on the team and still show up? So I offered in the next tie to have Jim and Pete play.... but I'm playing as long as Tom wants me to." 
Sampras, ranked fourth, says he thinks he will be pushed aside to make room for Courier. 


I 

weve Got 
467 456 436 
I
399 393 355 

I ForYour
NextWeekend I
346 
311 
295 
286 

I I2n 
243 I In Syracuse. I
217 209 

175 Escape to Homewood
152 I
137 
Suites®and enjoy all the 
114 

111 comfort, privacy and 96 convenience of home. 
83 

I54 Without the chores. 36 Including separate living 
and sleeping areas,
I 


I 
"FORTIIE PRICEOFTIIE I ORDINARY,
You CAN I 
HAVE 1HE ExrnAORDINARY'"-1 
APROMUS COMPANY 

I 
For the hotel that's like home call 
1-80G-CALL-HOME 
Or your travel agent 

I
Syracuse-Liverpool 275 Elwood Davis Rd. (315)451-3800 
I 
4 MILES FROM THE CARRIER DOME
L 
The Observer/Brendan Regan 

---------------.J 

Tuesday, February 4, 1992 The Observer page 13 
SPORTSSHORTS UConn kisses Big East lead goodbye 
Barkle~ o~oses Magic's All-Star status 
PHILA E HIA (AP) -Charles Barkley said Monday the NBA All-Star game is a reward for players with good seasons and should not be an opportunity for Magic Johnson to return to the game. "I have thought about picking up the phone, calling Magic and telling him maybe he shouldn't play in the All-Star game," Barkley told reporters after practice Monday. "It's his decision, but the All-Star game is a reward for players who've had a great first half of the season," the Philadelphia 76ers forward said. 
Soviet Ol~mpic teams splintered
ALBERTVI LE, France-What once was the mighty Soviet Olympic team arrives this year at the Winter Games as a splintered entity, with three former Baltic republics and one unifed squad competing independently. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are entered as independent countries with their own flags and anthems. Five former Soviet republics -Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan -comprise the Unified Team. Those republics now form part of the Commonwealth of Independent States, or CIS. The Unified Team will use the Olympic flag and anthem; it will wear the same uniforms but athletes also can wear a small insignia on their sleeves indicating their home republics. 
Irish strength coach wins award 
Metairie, LA-Notre Dame strength and conditioning coach Jerry Schmidt was named on of three winners of the Emrich/Riecke/Jones Award, presented by USA Sports Fitness. Schmidt, in his third year as coordinator, supervises the Haggar Fitness Complex within the Loftus Sports Center, and is responsible for managing the year-round weight training and conditioning programs for the Irish athletic programs. 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) ­Syracuse junior Mike Hopkins was confident he was going to make at least one free throw when he stepped to the foul line with 3 seconds left and the game against Connecticut on the line. 
But then, he v,asn't expecting a kiss from teammate Lawrence Moten. 
Hopkins' tie-breaking free throw lifted No. 13 Syracuse to an 84-83 victory over No. 10 Connecticut on Monday night. Adrian Autry and Conrad McRae secured the win when they knocked away Chris Smith's pass as time ran out. 
"I knew I was 50-50," said Hopkins, who came off the bench to shoot the free throws after McRae was injured on a foul. 
"Smith and the other guys were talking to me trying to make me miss. I just said to myself that I was going to make it. I felt confident I would make at least one," he said. 
"Then Moten kissed me and it changed everything," said Hopkins, who put up an airball on the second shot. 
Wrestlers bounce back at Illinois 
ByJIMVOGL 
Sports Writer 
CHAMPAIGN, IL-After being decked by tenth ranked Ohio State on Friday, the Notre Dame wrestling team picked it­self off the mat quickly. On Sunday, the Fighting Irish soundly defeated the Fighting Illini, 24-11, on the road. 
Javier Rivera began the match with an inspiring per­formance at 118. 
"He did us a favor," said coach Fran McCann of the sophomore who had been third on the depth chart at that weight. "He didn't come out until second semester and has worked hard since. If he was in good shape, he probably would have won it." 
At 126, the Irish received a win from a more reliable source: senior Marcus Gowens. 
The Irish leader scored big in his latest triumph, beating Greg Rudin 23-10 and improving his season record to 18-4. 
"Gowens probably did the best job of all," said McCann, who credited him for setting the tone for the rest of the match with his intensity. "He went against one of their best kids and showed composure and confidence. He kept the pressure on the whole time and wore him down." 
McCann also has high expec­tations of his 177 pound junior 
J. J. McGrew, who won 5-l. McCann explained the low score. 
"Jay met one of their tougher guys, but the guy was not very aggressive. {Illinois' Mike Novak) knew that he couldn't stay with Jay if he scrambled with him, so he tried to keep it close." 
Junior Jamie Boyd tallied an 8-3 win over Charles Gary. After finishing with a 15-14 record last season at 142, Boyd is 15-5-1 this year at the 150 pound level. 
Senior Tom Salvino (190) worked hard to beat out the incumbent at his position{Steve King). Salvino battled another arch rival against Illinois. 
After wrestling Lance Pelton to a draw, and later beating him in overtime during a tournament, last season, Salvino won decisively (7-4) this time around. 
Junior Emil Soehnlen (13-10­
1) also contributed a victory for the Irish, who evened their season record at 4-4. 
The remaining schedule in­cludes Syracuse, Michigan State, Ohio, Indiana and Purdue before tournament time. 
"I didn't even realize I did it," Moten said. "I'm just so intense. He made the shot and I felt so good for him. He deserves it. He does so much for us that doesn't show up on the stat sheet. He's our workhorse." 
Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim, whose team overcame a nine­point deficit in the final 10:21, said he didn't hesitate to choose Hopkins. 
"We got two shots. He's been playing all year long. He's a 50­percent free throw shooter. We just need one. Other guys can shoot them better, but they've never shot them in games," Boeheim said. 
Syracuse took over first place in the Big East from Connecticut (16-3, 7-3) by scoring the final five points of the game after Brian Fair had given the Huskies an 83-79lead with 2:21 to play. 
It was the second straight loss for Connecticut, which was routed 90-57 by by St. John's on Saturday. It was Syracuse's 20th straight victory at the Carrier Dome. 
"It's tougher losing by one point than it is by 30," Fair said. 
Dave Johnson, who led Syracuse (16-3, 8-3) with 26 points, pulled the Orangemen within 83-81 with 1:30 left on a follow shot and Moten, who added 23, scored on a break­away layup with ·1:01 left after stealing the ball from Smith. 
Smith, who scored 17 of his 2 5 points in the final 13 1/2 minutes, missed a 25-footer with 19 seconds and the re­bound bounced off Donyell Marshall, giving the ball to Syracuse. 
After Syracuse called a time­out, Moten missed a 3-pointer, but McRae was fouled after picking up the loose ball. Connecticut got the ball at sidecourt after Hopkins' airball, but Smith was double-teamed and Autry and McRae combined to deflect Smith's attempted pass to Kevin Ollie in the corner as time expired. 
Syracuse trailed 64-55 with 
10:21 to go before using an 11­1 run to take a 66-65 lead, its first since scoring the opening basket. The game see-sawed until Connecticut scored seven straight points to go ahead. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Hapkido/Tae Kwon Do practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m.Room 301 Rockne MemoriaL Beginners welcome. Any questions. call Sean at 283-3457. 
~ Cross Country Ski Clinic for beginners is being offered on the golf course by RecSports. today at 4 p.m. Register in advance at RecSports. 
•Notre Dame Rugby: There will be a meeting tonight at 8 
p.m. tn the Loftus Center for anyone interested in joining. No experience or pads necessary. Practices are being held every Tuesday and Thursday at 9 p.m. at Loftus. We will be using SACS. so remember to bring them. 
I 
-

liThe Bookstore Basketball Tournamc:tnt is looking for a head and sorne assista:nt commissioners. If interested, pick up an application at the student govt. secretary's desk in LaFortune. Applications are due this Friday and interviews will be February 10 and 11. Any questions, contact Kevin McGee at 234-5193. 
•The 
RecSports Downhill Ski Trip, originally January 24 is rescheduled for Friday, February 7. Buses will leave the Library Circle at 5 p.m .• and return at approximately 11 p.m. 25 dollars includes lift ticket, equipment and transportation. Register at RecSports by 5 p.m. Wednesday. 

•SMC/ND 
women's lacrosse club first practice will be Wednesday, February 5, from 8'-10 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. For the rest of the month pr-acitces will be Sunday, from 2-4 and Monday and Wednesdays from 8-10 p.m. at Angela. 


TIME 0 UT ....... AN INTERFAITH RETREAT 
All students are invited to spend some time away from campus 
praying  and  pondering  the  ways  
of the Lord.  A special invitation  
ts  extended  to  those  students  

from religious traditions other 
than Roman Catholic. 
In the Scriptures, it ts written, that Jesus often led His disciples to a place away from the crowds, where they could be with Him and have time to think about His teachings and talk about His message. That's what a spiritual retreat is ... A TIME OUT. 
A retreat IS like a revival, a parish mission, or an evangelization call. Although the formats are different they are alike in that these opportunities enable people to turn back to the Lord, to 
recommit themselves to Jesus 
and to grow spiritually. 
Would you like to participate m 
an INTERFAITH RETREAT, take 
part m a spiritual renewal or 
attend a revival? 

A planning and informational me\!ting will take place on Thursday, February 6th at 
7:00 PM in the conference room of the Campus Ministry Office on the ground floor of Badin Hall. 
If you cannot attend the meeting but are interested m this project, please call Rev. AI D'Alonzo, at 239-5242 or 239-5955. 
(A.MPU5
·-!
MINISTRY 
Mhe NO Cricket Team will practice on Wednesday, February 5 at 10 p.m. at Loftus. New players welcome. Call Marko at 283­3587 or Tim at 283·1473 for details. 
•Mixed 
doubles tennis social is open to all undergraduate students. Informal games will be played, starting Monday, February 10, and you can sign up on an individual basis. Please call Renee Wenger at 283-1347 by this Friday. 

•The 
Rowing Club has a meeting Wednesday at 7:30 in room 120 Cushing. Dues and spring break deposits will be collected. 


Blrkenaot:kl 
They're not just for priests anymore. 
They're for everyone and they're available tn South Bend! To experience the most comfortable shoe ever made, take a trip to: 

0 

PEDORTHIC CENTER 8-5:30 SAT 8-4 
NOW IN 1WO LOCATIONS! 
13121 S.R. 23 228 S. Michigan (219) 273-2124 (219) 288-5717 (in the new Martin's (across from Edwardo's) shopping complex) 

The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1992 
SMC hoops defeats Bethel 78-75 
Victory marks second comeback in a row for Belles 
By CHRIS BACON Sports Writer 
What comes around goes around, or so they say. Fortunately for the Saint Mary's basketball team, this did not come true. 
Hosting cross town rivals Bethel College (7-11), the Belles fought off last minute attempts by the Lady Pilots to escape with a 78-75 home victory. 
Friday night, the Belles (6-8) came from behind to beat Saint Francis College with a three point jumper at the buzzer. Last night, the Belles had to hold the Lady Pilot's scoring offense, led by junior guard Kellie Moran, to prevent a last second upset. 
Senior forward Catherine Restovich led the Belles offense with 17 points, 11 rebounds. Junior center Kim Holmes chipped in 14 points. Sophomore Liz Vernasco tallied 13 points and four steals. Senior Janet Libbing added 11 points and grabbed 15 re­bounds, to go along with four steals. 
Moran led the Lady Pilots with 25 points, including five three­pointers. Junior guard Heidi Copsey added 17 points for Bethel. 
The Belles, unable to execute any transition game early, trailed in the first half. Led by Moran's 13 first-half points, the Lady Pilots opened up a ten point lead. Saint Mary's cut the deficit to three point with three minutes remaining, but Bethel stretched it back to five at the half, 32-27. 
"In the first half we weren't running our transition game. We are a slow starting team. We just can't seem to get into the game," explained Belles coach Don Cromer. 
Restovich added, " In the first half we were playing their game instead of ours." 
The Belles dominated the sec­ond half, stealing the lead in the first three minutes of play. They built a five point lead, 52­47 at the 15:13 mark, but the Lady Pilots flew into action, grabbing the lead once again. Bethel built a seven point lead, 67-60, but the Belles' fast­break proved to be too much for the Lady Pilots and they stole the lead for the final time on a 9-0 run. Up 69-6 7, the Belles seemed to seal the victory, stretching the lead to 75-71. But once again the Lady Pilots attacked, sink­ing a bucket from the inside. With 36 seconds remaining and the Belles clinging to a 7 5-7 3 lead, three shots at the line clinched the victory. Moran's last-gasp shot fell short, and the Belles held on for the win. 
"The last two games our de­fense has been intense," ex­plained Vernasco. "Obviously that's the key to our wins." 
"I thought it was a great team effort. We came from behind and won, just like the Saint Francis game," added Libbing. "We don't have one person scoring for us. We have five, six people doing the job." 
Overall, the Belles shot 45 percent from the field while Bethel shot 43 percent. The Belles also outrebounded the Lady Pilots, pulling down 4 7 boards to Bethel's 33. 
Saint Mary's will have a few days off to prepare for a road trip on Saturday to the University of Wisconsin­Oshkosh. 
Magic 
continued from page 16 
What if Magic went out on the court and didn't play up to expectations? Sure, it's not likely to happen, but would we want a sub-par performance to be our last memory of Magic? 
As ex-teammate Byron Scott has said, it could be that Magic is restless. When he retired, he was still in the prime of his career, and the thought of sitting on the sidelines when he knows he can still compete-and dominate-is frustrating. 
But a retired player should be just that-retired. If Magic wants to come out of retirement and return to the NBA grind, as rumors imply, that's fine. But it still doesn't change the fact that as of right now, he is an inactive player. 
That means that Magic, no matter what debt of gratitude the NBA owes him, should not be allowed to play in next Sunday's All-Star game in Orlando. 


Correction 
In the Feb. 3rd Observer, the winning basket in the AFROTC basketball tournament was er­roneously reported scored by Earl Johnson. Navy cadet Doug 
Scholer scored the hoop. The Observer regrets the error. 
•.. 
There's only one way to come out ahead of the pack. 
> 


•
&·aAmericon HeartV Association 'NFllf FIGI-HING fQfl ".QJIIIFE 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

·})!:J;r:~· 

The AT&T Calling Card will never go to waste. You can use it to make a call from almost
B;lb OO)ll>'l811-HU 
II (I ~Sfllltllt~ ~
----H
thUJ U• OOOt?IO) 

anywhere to anywhere. Once you have one, you'll never need to apply for another. Its the least expenstve way 
to call state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial direct 0 And now you could also get 10% back on all 
the long distance calls you make with your card.* 0 Of course when you use your Calling Card, you'll 
always be connected to the reliable service you've come to expect from AT&T. 0 So, as you see, there's 
only one way to describe the AT&T Calling Card in today's college environment. Indispensable. 
-
Get an AT&T Calling Card today. Calli 800 654-0471 Ext. 9728. 

AT&T
• Must make astleasl $30 worth of AT&T Long D1stance calls w1th your AT&T Card per quarter Calls covered by spec1al AT&T 
pnc1ng plans are not Included C9t992 AT&T 

Tuesday, February 4, 1992 The Observer page15 

CROSSWORD CAMPUS 
58 Pie --Tuesday 59 Hereditary ruler 3:30 -4:30 p.m. Workshop: "Effective Resume Writing.~ Marilyn 60 Punctuation marks, 
Rice, assistant director of Career and Placement Services. Foster
for short 
Room, LaFortune. 
DOWN 
7 p.m. Film: "The Third Man." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Pirate Artist's studio 
3 Procreated 7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate meeting. Room 202, Center for 4 Ancie_nt Syria Continuing Education. 5 Author -· Yutang 6 Ancient Greek 
land 9 p.m. Film: "The Wild Bunch." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Farcical imi­
tation 8 Renovate 9 Greek letters 
10 ln the center 11 "-good­LECTURES deserves another" 12 Storied 13 Nun's hood-shaped cap 15 Organic compounds 
Tuesday
20 Lodging places 
3:30 p.m. Graduate seminar: "Process Optimization Via
2 3 Produce eggs 24 College girls Simulated Annealing," Peter Cummings, University of Virginia, 26 Beer mug Charlottesville, VA. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. 
27 Binge 29 Place of sacrifice 
31 Metrical feet 4:30 p.m. Mathematical Colloquium: "Some Semilinear Elliptic 
33 American inventor Systems Without Variational Structure," Manuel Del Pino, 35 Swamp 
University of Minnesota. Room 226, Mathematics Building. 
36 Warned

©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-18 37 Without hesitation 38 Neat 40 Subtitle
22 -accompli 43 City in New York 41 Goes to
23 Muscular power 44 Actor Gert ­ACROSS 24 Remedy 46 Consumed 42 Tenant MENU 
45 Race segment
The occult 25 "For shame!" 47 Bring up (2 wds.)
A shaking 26 Extends across 48 Numismatist's 
48 Sects NOTRE DAME 
13 Social circle 27 More painful subject 
49 "What's in -?'
14 Attendants to an 28 Mistakes in a 49 Certain dwellings Chicken Strips 
51 Narcotic shrub
important person published work (abbr.) Make Your Own Burrito Bar 
52 Sandarac tree16 !tal ian seasoning 30 Payments 50 Suffix for drunk 
54 Quill Garden Vegetable Quiche 
17 Wreaths for the 32 Lustful 51 Famous gra11111arian 
56 Southern state Baked Chicken with Herbs 
head 34 Harvard -52 Pays up, in cards 
(abbr.)
18 Muhammadanism 35 Strict discipl in-53 Plant part 19 "Days of Our -" arian 55 Actress -Day 21 Child 39 Type of 1iquor 57 Chooses 


Sports 
page 16 Tuesday, February 4, 1992 
Irish hoops looks to rebound against Detroit 
By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame men's basketball team takes the floor tonight against the University of Detroit Mercy, the Irish will be looking to rebound from Saturday's 100-71 loss to number-one ranked Duke. 
The Titans from Detroit will also be trying to get on the winning track after suffering an 83-71 loss at Dayton on Saturday. Not only did the Titans lose the game, but they lost Ali-MCC guard Dwayne Kelley with a sprained ankle. 
.. 
Kelley will be questionable for tonight's game. Kelley is the leading scorer for Detroit this year. He is averaging 15.5 points and 3.5 rebounds a game. Kelley is not alone however. The Titans feature a balanced scoring attack. Four players, Kelley, forward Mike Lovelace, freshmen reserve forward Michael Hamilton and forward Michael Aaron all average in double figures. In addition to these four, guard Ramsey Nichols averages 9.8 points a game. "They're a dub that has balance and a team that we are going to have to be ready for," said Irish head eoach John MacLeod. This balanced scoring attack 
• and the team quickness of Detroit has Irish MacLeod con­cerned. "They're smaller than we are but a team that is very quick and very athletic-they drive the ball, they shoot threes and they press." 
The Titans are in the midst of a road trip which will keep them on the road for seven of the next nine games. Detroit has only won one road game this year in seven attempts. 
MacLeod also had much 
praise for the top-rated Duke 
Blue Devils. 
"Duke was a superior team. They are worthy of the number­one ranking." 
"They pounded us on the boards. We are having a prob­lem in that area. Hopefully, we can get this straightened out." 
The Blue Devils outrebounded the Irish 17-5 on the offensive boards, a statistic leading to a tremendous slew of second­chance points that killed the Irish. 
However, he was pleased with the way the team responded at practice on Sunday . 
"They came back determined again which is a good sign. They just keep coming back for more and I don't see them dropping their heads. One of these times we're going to bounce back and start to make a real strong move. We keep getting knock downs and eventually we will get over the hump." 
The goal of this team is a NCAA tournament bid, but MacLeod hopes the team can handle Detroit. 
"I'm concerned about them. They all have the ability to score. They have nine guys who can score, so it is a team, not a couple of individuals." 
While the NCAAs may be a difficult assignment for the Irish this season, a berth in the NIT would not be out of the question with a few strong upsets against top-notch teams. 
The Irish will be in action tonight at 7:30 pm at the Joyce ACC. Following Detroit, the Irish have a tough stretch. Notre Dame will face Michigan and Stanford at home. Te team will then travel to Syracuse to face the Orangemen and then it is back home to face Marquette and the Bruins from UCLA. 


S h . The Observer/Eric Bailey op. om?re Jo_n Ross, shown here aga1nst Athletes in Action earlier this year, has stepped into Notre Dame's starting l1neup 1n place of the injured Keith Tower, who suffered a broken elbow and will miss 2-6 weeks. 
Despite hard work and anonymity, student managers enjoy the job 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
Every Saturday during foot­ball season millions of Notre Dame fans across the country see a student following Lou Holtz and his assistants up and down the sidelines carrying their microphone cords. 
One might wonder how some­one gets such a job. Does Lou pick a random student from a 
1. tailgate party before each game? Is the "cord-man" a contest-winner'? Or, are these people just sons and daughters of wealthy alumni? Actually, they are student­managers, and making sure Lou does not injure himself by tripping over his microphone cords are just one of the many duties they perform. "The head manager of each sport has to make sure the players have their equipment where and when they need it, make sure the coaches' orders get to the players, and is re­sponsible for making the op­posing team feel at home when it visits Notre Dame," head hockey manager Dylan Hogan said. 
The process of becoming a cord-carrier is a long one, be­cause that task belongs to one of 18 junior managers on the managing squad. A student­manager's career begins as a freshman or sophomore, when one simply volunteers his or her time to be a manager. It is not difficult to take this first step; it is just like joining any other club or organization on cam­pus. However, this is not like any other club. 
Sophomores compete against each other to be selected as one of 18 junior managers. This year 85 of them are vying to become one of the chosen few. 
"It is one of most competitive groups on campus," Hogan said. 
The sophomores work with the football and men's basket­ball teams, and they have to do a lot of the little things such as locker room duty and painting the football helmets each Friday night before games. 
"It is not very glamorous, but it is a great experience," sophomore manager Brett Moraski said. "You learn that a lot more goes on than just a football game on Saturdays." 
After the Blue-Gold game the managers will rank each other, and the top 18 vote-getters will become next year's junior man­agers. 
Junior managers then handle more important tasks during the football season, after which they are ranked again. 
The top-ranked manager be­comes head football manager, which is the ultimate goal of the majority of the managers. Next season's head manager will be Art Monaghan. The remaining 1 7 managers select the sport they would like to manage. The higher a person is ranked the better the selection he or she has to choose from. 

"Being a head manager is to­tally different than being a ju­nior or sophomore manager," head fencing manager Tim Quenan said. "You get to know the athletes on a more personal basis, and you feel more like a part of the team." 
Head managers must attend their team's practice sessions and travel with the team to its road games to handle its meal arrangements, equipment, and schedule. 
Despite all the hard work, managing provid.es a lot of good memories for those involved. 
"In the locker room, after the 1990 Miami game, Rocket [Ismail] led everyone, the play­ers, coaches and managers, in the Notre Dame fight song. It was something I will never for­get." Hogan said. 
"I wouldn't trade the experi­ences I've had as a manager for anything in the world," Que nan said. 
So the next time you see a manager chasing Lou up and down the Irish sideline to make sure he does not loose his headset, remember there is a lot more to the job than that. 
No Magic in All-Star game 
How important is Magic Johnson? 
Important enough for the NBA to bend its rules and allow a player who is still on the injured list to gain a starting spot on the Western Conference All-Star squad. 
Important enough for the NBA to create a 13th spot on the West roster, allowing Golden State guard Tim Hardaway to make the team. 
But is this right? Rene Ferran Granted, if it weren't in part for Johnson's efforts, there probably wouldn't be an All-Out of Bounds 
Star game, much less an NBA. And yes, this is a made-for-TV event, with the starters chosen by the fans, and some say that if they want him, they should get him. 
And it is true that deserving players are always left off the All­Star roster-just ask the Kings' Mitch Richmond and Washington's Pervis Ellison, to name but two. By adding a 13th spot to the West lineup, the NBA has partially solved the problem of Magic denying a player his due. 
But what has Magic Johnson done on the basketball court to deserve the honor? He has not played a minute since his retirement announcement November 7th. Meanwhile, players such as Hardaway, Utah's John Stockton, Portland's Terry Porter 
. and Phoenix's Kevin Johnson (all point guards) have proven themselves worthy of All-Star status through their play on the court. 
The same argument used against baseball and basketball players who start in All-Star games when the fans vote in a player who is having a down year, yet has been a superstar for years, applies here. A player should earn All-Star status for his accomplishments on the court that year, not as a lifetime achievement award. That's what the Hall of Fame is for. 
My opposition to Magic's playing is not based on his con­tracting the AIDS virus. Medical experts testify to the fact that the chances of his transmitting the disease to any of his West tea~mate~ or.hi~ opponents are very remote. And according to Ma~c, he IS st~ll m excellent shape and is physically able to play. 
_Still, w~ don t really know to what extent the virus has sapped his sta':llma. As any basketball player will tell you-or any professiOnal athlete for that matter-if you are away from a sport for a while, you may be in shape, but you're not in playing shape. There's a big difference. 
see MAGIC I page 14 





