

VOL. XXIV NO. 135 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Study days passed by Academic Council 
I 
By SARAH DORAN 
News Writer 
A proposal to add two study days to the final examination period was approved by t~e Academic Council yesterdaty, according the Greg Butrus, student body president. 
The proposal will go into ef­fect beginning with the fall 1992 semester and will not e~­tend the student calendar, said Butrus. It will result in elirrii­nating classes on the Thursday and Friday before exams, he said. 
"It (the proposal) is a way fbr students to have more time ~o prepare for finals, which are difficult enough without tlile time shortage," said Butrus. 
Butrus's primary election platform was the addition lof study days. He said that he has been working on the projdct "since day one," which has been every day for the past two months. 

Butrus said that he is sur­prised at how quickly the pro­posal was passed by the Aca­demic Couneil. "It shows that the administration is willing to listen to student ideas and can be really reasonable to what students want," he said. 
University President Edward Malloy said that there was "good rationale for doing it· (passing the proposal) so it won a vast majority of support." 
Bill Dailey, counselor to the student body president, spear­headed the project and is also "amazed at how quickly the proposal went through." It was approved by an overwhelming majority, he said. 
Butrus said that he plans to continue to focus on the quality of undergraduate education, which he said is his biggest in­terest. 

Hitting the books 
A tutor with the Upward Bound tutoring program helps Kristina Greenstreet, a high school senior, in O'Shaughnessy Hall yesterday. Upward Bound is a tutoring program for college-bound high school seniors. 

1842·1992 S( SQUIC fl'olffN"fH Al 

eObserver 

saint Ma~~ College 
NOTRE DAME •I NOlANA 

THURSDAY, APRIL 23, 1992 

Senate withdraws vote 
By STEPHEN Conway, chairperson of the ZAVESTOSKI Faculty Senate. That "something else" was
Associate News Editor 

the statement detailing the agreement between the presi­In a nearly unanimous vote dent and the Faculty Senatelast night, the Faculty Senate 
executive committee. The
decided to support its executive 
statement included acommittee in withdrawing 
restructuring of the Academictheir motion for a vote of no Council but no shift in
confidence in University proportionality, an issue thePresident Father Edward 
Faculty Senate members hadMalloy. 
initially held strongly following 
The vote, which included 
Malloy's veto of a proposal tofour dissenting votes and four increase faculty representation abstentions, followed an hour on the council. 
and a half of debate. 

Many senate members, how­According to Professor David ever, said taking a vote of noO'Connor and other members confidence would provoke fur­of the executive committee who ther confrontation and destroy
met with the president and 
the progress made thus far onprovost and came to an agree­the issue of faculty governance. 
ment on April 15, the presi­"Confrontation is not terriblydent's commitment to openness useful now. We need to try ais most important. 
new approach," said V. Paul
"The purpose in delaying the Kenney.
vote two weeks ago was so that 
But according to another
we could get something else on the floor for tonight," said Paul see SENATE/page 6 
I 

GUADALAJARA, Mexico (AP) -A series of explosions in the sewer system ripped open streets. knocked down buildirlgs and hurled trucks and cars in the air in Mexico's secopd largest city Wednesday. Wit­nesses said 129 bodies h!ad been recovered, and 600 people were reported injured. 
The federal government s~nt the army to keep order in the city of 3 million, where te~e­phonP.s, P.lectricity and wa~er services had been c~Jt. Residents said they complained of a gas smell for more than a day, but were told everything was under control. 
At least nine explosions re­
ginning at 10:30 a.m. (12 30 
p.m. EDT) blasted enorm us craters and left jagged trenc es along Gante Avenue and ot er streets in the Reforma district of southeastern Guadalajara. 
to middle-Glass neighborhood dug feverishly in rubble with picks and axes for neighbors. At least 700 rescue workers were searching for victims. 
Rescuers helped free passen­gers trapped in a bus that fell into a hole caused by the blast. Cars were crushed by falling debris or flipped over like chil­dren's toys. 
Some residents wandered aimlessly among the ruins. Others stumbled through the area in tears, their clothing shredded. 
A statement by Pemex, Mex­ico's state oil monopoly, said the explosions were caused by liquid hexane, used to extract edible oils from seeds. The hex­ane leaked from a private cooking oil factory, La Central, into the sewage system, Pemex said. 
Policeman Martin Bonales 
and fire department since Tuesday to complain of the gas smell. Government agencies told him everything was under control, he said. 
Residents had begun remov­ing manhole sewer covers in the neighborhood to let the gas out. 
Even in cool weather, a spark or the rumble of a truck can ignite hexane violently. 
"The leaders of the police and fire department of Guadalajara should be tried as those re­sponsible for the catastrophe," Homero Aridjis, a poet and the leader of Mexico's biggest envi­ronmentalist group, said in an interview in Mexico City. 
The city's fire chief main­tained the explosions were caused by gasoline. Hexane smells like kerosene. 
Gov. Guillermo Cosio Vidaurri 

Honor Committee hopes to increase student input 
By MEREDITH MCCULLOUGH 
Assistant News Editor 

Increased student input and support will be the main focus of next year's University Aca­demic Code of Honor Commit­tee, according to Kami Benson. 
Benson, a Knott Hall junior who has served on the commit­tee for three years, and Kevin Schroeder, a Grace Hall junior who has served two years on the committee, have been cho­sen as committee co-chairs for the 1992-93 academic year. 
The co-chair position is an opportunity to "further educate students and enhance the Aca­demic Code of Honor at Notre Dame," said Benson. With other committee members, "we represent the student voice" concerning the Honor Code, she said. 
"We want to get students in­volved and increase public awareness and acceptance of the Honor Code," Schroeder added. 
With members including stu­dent, faculty and administrative representatives, the committee is "reponsible for establishing Honor Code guidelines, educat­ing the Notre Dame community about the Honor Code, and promoting high standards of ethical and moral integrity among students," according to an official statement from the committee. 
"The Honor Code is not something that was pushed on the students," said Benson. "It began (in 1987) as the brain­child of two students and two 
see HONOR/page6 

Explosiofl rips through Mexico 
Members of the Faculty Senate decided to withdraw their proposed no-confidence vote in Father Malloy in last night's Senate meeting. 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

-----------~-----------~-­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
summer job. 
Of course seniors are excluded from this 
regimen, for they may have to prepare 
themselves for the REAL WORLD! But everyone 
else will probably have to work for at least part 
of the summer to earn some dough for next 
year. 
Summer jobs, of course, are especially important for those people who will be seniors next year, since they've got to have some side money to hit the nightlife in and around South Bend. 
Well, if you haven't got a job for the summer 
yet, you're not unlike myself, hoping that some 
wonderful opportunity will come through. 
But no matter where you decide to work, most employment opportunities for college students fall into a few general categories, so check and see what you may qualify for. Who knows, this list may even help you find a job. 
•The 
Intern: This is the serious student who does research in some field related to his/her major. These people just can't learn enough. Due to overworking, the intern may not have a very good tan, but trades it off for acceptance into the postgraduate school of his/her choice. 

•The 
Mall Rat: These people are the ones who put off finding a job until the last minute. I did that last summer, and believe me, never again. A music store is acceptable, but clothes stores are right out. No one wears Chess King merchandise anyway. Plus, the high school crowd is too passe. Also includes fast food joints. 

•Daddy's 
employee: This person never worries about landing a job. The workload is tough, but if you want to take a day off at the beach, the boss usually doesn't mind. And they said nepotism was dead. 

•The 
construction worker: These people are the real workers. They earn their pay more than anyone else. The hours are long and the work grueling, but check out the perks: killer tan, fashionable orange vest, and socially acceptable ogling. Includes any physical labor positions. 

•The 
lifeguard/beach worshipper: Also sports a viscous tan and gets to scope all day long. May have to teach four-year olds how to stay afloat, but overall not a bad job, and those great boardwalk games of chance are often in close proximity. 


So there you have it. Which one of these groups will you belong to this summer. Perhaps none of them, or more than one. Maybe you'll ·ust bum around all summer on the golf course. Too bad they don't pay me to do that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1992 
FORECAST 
Mostly cloudy and cool today with a 40 percent chance of showers. Highs in the mid 50s. Friday will be cloudy with highs in the mid 50s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  48  33  
Athens  68  45  
Atlanta  79  51  
Bogota  69  50  
Boston  69  56  
Cairo  75  55  
Charlotte. N.C.  78  60  
Chicago  49  37  
Cleveland  59  48  
Dallas  85  56  
Detroit  53  47  
Helena  56  38  
Indianapolis  56  41  
Jerusalem  63  48  
London  61  50  
Madrid  82  48  
Minneapolis  44  35  
Moscow  43  36  
Nashbille  77  51  
New York  71  55  
Paris  63  45  
Philadelphia  78  62  
Rome  66  48  

San Francisco 63 51 South Bend 55 39 Tokyo 77 73 Washington. D.C. 75 61 


Today's Staff 

News Becky Barnes Alicia Reale  Production Kathy Fong Cherly Moser  
Sports George Dohrmann  Systems John Halloran  
Business Pancho Lozano Andy Runkle  VIewpoint Guy Loranger Jason Thomas  
Accent  

Mara Divis Mary Schultze Pat Moran 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
Quake hits Southern California 
• DESERT HOT SPRINGS. Calif. -A moderate earthquake rocked parts of Southern California on Wednesday, knocking out some telephone service. There were no reports of damage or injury. The 7:25 
p.m. earthquake measured 4.6 on the Richter scale and was centered nine miles east of Desert Hot Springs, said Julie Hakewill, spokeswoman for the California Institute of Technology's seismology lab in Pasadena. It was followed by several aftershocks, including one measuring 2.7, she said. Desert Hot Springs is about 110 miles east of Los Angeles. 
Clinton attacked on Earth Day 
• WASHINGTON -The Bush administration leveled 
an Earth Day attack on Bill Clinton as White House officials accused the Democratic front-runner of a "slippery" effort to gloss over a poor environmental record. Clinton, the Arkansas governor, has "the worst environmental record in America," White House press secretary Marlin 


Fitzwater told reporters Wednesday. The comments were designed to counter Clinton's Earth Day speech in Philadelphia attacking Bush's environmental record. 
OF INTEREST 
•The 
"Superfund" will be discussed in Part III of the 1992 Environmental Conference. Elkhart mayor James Perron, James Michael Thunder of Johnson Controls, Inc., and Lloyd Ketchum of the Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences Department will speak at 7 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. 

•ASME 
meeting/pizza party will be held in Room 356 Fitzpatrick at 7 p.m. tonight, instead of Room 120. All new and old members should attend. 


.rhe Appalachian Seminar Task Force will hold an informational meeting for anyone interested in the 1992 Fall Seminar at 7 p.m. tonight in the CSC lounge. 
•until They Have Faces, a slide show and oral presentation, will be given by several members of the NO community on their recent experiences living in India tonight at 7:30 in the multipurpose room at the Center for Social Concerns. 
MARKET UPDATE 

Better disease prevention found 
• WASHINGTON -Two birth control devices for women, the contraceptive sponge and the diaphragm, provide women with significantly more protection against some sexually transmitted diseases than do condoms worn by male partners, a health journal re­ported Wednesday. A study of 4,162 women found less gonorrhea and trichomoniasis among those using fe­male-controlled methods of contraception, the Ameri­can Journal of Public Health reported. Gonorrhea, tri­chomoniasis and chlamydia account for 75 percent of the 12 million new cases of sexually transmitted dis­eases in the United States each year. 
CAMPUS 

Speech team places ninth 
• 
NOTRE DAME -Notre Dame's speech team placed ninth in the National Forensics Association National Championships last weekend, up from a 19th place finish last year, said member Joe Wilson. Wilson placed eighth and Sonia Miller reached the quarterfinals in the category of prose interpretation of literature. First-year competitor Heidi Toboni also qualified for the tournament. Notre Dame's speech team has been active for five years, according to Wilson. 

•A 
performance of Lakota music, dance. and oratory including the hoop dance and traditional flute music will be offered by Kevin Locke, a Lakotan Indian of the Standing Rock Reservation, tonight at 7:30 in Cush­ing Auditorium. This event is sponsored by the Baha'i Club, the Native American Student Association and the Local Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'i's of South Bend. All are welcome. 

•A 
materials drive, sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha to send unused pens, pencils, and paper from Notre Dame students to the residents of Passagon, Benin, will kick off tonight at 8 p.m. in the ISO Lounge, 2nd floor LaFortune. Christophe Koughizonde, a native of Passagon, will speak. 

•The 
ISO picnic will be tomorrow at 4:30 at Holy Cross Field. There will be free food and drinks, as well as soccer and volleyball! 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1789: President-elect George Washington and his wife moved into the first executive mansion, the Franklin House, in New York. 

• 
In 1969: Sirhan Sirhan was sentenced to death for the as­sassination of New York Sen. Robert Kennedy. The sentence was later commuted to life imprisonment. 

• 
In 1982: For the first time in 17 years, the government reported a monthly decline in the consumer price index, which fell a seasonally adjusted three-tenths of one percent in March. 

• 
In 1986: The government proposed barring immigration into the United States by people suffering from AIDS. 


Thursday, April 23, 1992 The Observer 
Professors discuss benefits and drawbacks of technology 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
News Writer 
Ecological ethics and the ben­efits and drawbacks of tech­nology and science were dis­
1 

cussed by several professors at a lecture last night. 
David Lodge, associate pro­fessor of biology at Notre Dame, focussed on global warming and its environmental effects.: He said that the changes ini the global atmosphere ar:e a certainty, yet scientifically the effects of such changes ca~ not be predicted. 
According to Lodge, the hottest summer recorded was in 1988, and there is a theory that it is the effect of global warming. Global warming oc­curs when short wave radiation enters the earth's atmosphere and transforms into long wave radiation. This radiation can­not escape the atmosphere and is thus trapped in an envelope of gases that retain the heat, he said. 
Four gases, called green house gases, which keep the long wave radiation from ieav­ing the atmosphere are carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and chloroflorocarbons. There has been a dramatic increase in these gases in the last century, said Lodge. 
Coincidentally, there also may be a warming trend in the an­nual temperatures recorded. "Warming temperatures may not be occurring, but there is a good chance that a warming trend is very plausible," he said. 
"Humans are changing the composition of the earth's at­mosphere. If the results are not global warming, other changes can be expected," said Lodge. 
Charles Kulpa, Notre Dame professor of biological sciences, said that it may be possible to reduce the sulfur emission in fossil fuels by biotechnology. Notre Dame and other institutions are researching this new area of biotechnology and the ways that it can benefit the environment, he said. 
Burning fossil fuels emits sulfur which damages the environment, and the govern­ment has passed regulations that require oil refineries to re­duce diesel fuel sulfur emissions from .2S to .05 percent by 1993, said Kulpa. 
Hydrodesulfurization is a chemical process which re­moves sulfur from fuels, he said. However, according to Kulpa, the process is very ex­pensive to build and operate, 
and it uses tremendous amounts of energy. Many re­fineries do not have the eco­nomic means to implement this solution to sulfur emissions, he said. 
Notre Dame researchers are using a process called microbial desulfurization biotechnology to remove sulfur from diesel and other petroleum gases, he said. This technology still is in its infancy and is not fully understood, yet researchers are sure that it will be a much more efficient and much less costly means of reducing sulfur emissions, said Kulpa. 
The clean up process of the Exxon Valdez oil spill was also discussed by Ronald Atlas, pro­fessor of ecological studies at the University of Louisville and a consultant for the Exxon Valdez oil spill. 
The Valdez spill was only the 37th largest oil spill in history, according to Atlas. "If oil does not strike land we do not talk about it. Off shore spills are naturally weathered, and the effects are rendered 'harmless,"' he said. 
The very patchy distribution of the oil on shore makes it very difficult to analyze the damage that was done to the environment, said Atlas. 

"Exxon mounted an armada, mental controls and started spent one million dollars a day using the spray as the primary and their initial clean up did not clean up means, said Atlas. work," he said. After this "So it got to the point where technology failed, both the EPA they said the spill was cleaned and Exxon conducted scientific up. So there's technology and research to find a method to science coming together," said clean up the spill, he continued. Atlas. 
When a fertilization spray The lecture was the second showed signs of cleaning the in a three lecture series on waste effectively, the Coast business ethics and the envi­Guard took away the experi-ronment. 

Sisters of Holy Cross established tradition of SMC education 
By ERIN BROWN 
News Writer 
When Father Edward Sorin wrote home to France from America in 1841, he spoke of the need of sisters in the· new mission in northern Indiana called Notre Dame. His words put a dream into the ey~s of Sister Calvary of the Holy Ctoss. 
Although the first senfices performed by the sisters in­cluded washing and mending clothes, nursing , cleaning: and cooking for Notre Dame, they accepted the task and the op­portunity to venture to America. 
In 1843 Sister Calvary and three other sisters left LeM:ans, France to join the Holy Cross colony in the New World. The voyage to America was headed by Father Moreau and consisted of some Holy Cross missionaries, one brother, two priests and the four sisters. The determined party sailed for 40 days and arrived in America in July of that year. 
The Sisters moved into a five room house six miles north of Notre Dame in Bertrand, Michigan.. This would be their convent for the next several years. 
In September of 1844, Sorin performed the ceremony of presenting the habit to three postulants. These were the first Sisters to receive the Holy Cross habit in America. 
The Rites of Spring For 


Juniors 
• 
Bookstore Basketball 

• 
Christmas In April 

• 
Blue-Gdld Game 


• 
Resume Submitted To Career and Placement Office For Resume Books 


The sisters soon established an orphanage and a school for the deaf. They were also asked by some local neighbors to teach their children. This was the beginning of the present Saint Mary's College and the fulfillment of Moreau's dream for the sisters to devote themselves to teaching in America. 
The first mission opened from the convent in Bertrand was a Native American school in Pokagon, Michigan. The sisters taught the children catechism and elementary subjects for seven years. By 1861 the sisters were operating schools and orphanages in nine different states. 
Over the next several years the school community grew with local grants and land do­nations. By 1850 there were 50 boarders at the school, and its name officially became Saint Mary's of the Immaculate Conception. The tuition and board were $35 per session. 
Soon afterward, Sorin secured a piece of land one mile to the west of Notre Dame that he had been unsuccessfully trying to acquire for several years. He 
• 

was finally able to purchase the 185 acres for $8000. This be­came the new site of the mother house for the Sisters of the Holy Cross and Saint Mary's. 
As the years passed, the size of the school increased and the first graduation was held in 1860. The graduating class consisted of six girls. From here the Sisters continued on to establish the tradition of the Saint Mary's education. 
Although the number of Holy Cross Sisters at Saint Mary's has decreased over the years, they have been the backbone of the Saint Mary's tradition. 
The sisters "represent the touch with the past. They have a vision of what education is for women," said Sister Miriam Cooney, professor of mathematics at Saint Mary's. "They brought a faith dimension to the liberal arts education." 
One of the areas that has been affected by the lower number of Sisters is the faculty. In the mid 1950s over half of the instructors at Saint Mary's were sisters. Today there are approximately six. Cooney feels that this is due to the fact that 
Docked 100 Center, Mishawaka 
Sales Meetings 

• 
Plain Good Times 


• 
Escape (No Phones, No TV) Reg. Schedule 


• Tues./Sun. 2-4-7-9 P.M.
259 6080
I 
Available lor Summer Session? Caii•••Crew Persons Needed! Marine rleac:e Neees 


women have so many options and are not as interested anymore in working within an institution. 
But, she adds, regardless of the small number of sisters, there is a "prevailing spirit and stability in the faculty and students here." 
The sisters have provided leadership at the College and the declining number of them will probably be felt most im­mediately in the faculty, ac­cording to Sister Elena Malits, professor of religious studies. As a graduate of Saint Mary's, Malits said that most of her teachers were sisters. 
Despite the small number, however, Malits feels that the sisters "embody what the tradition (of Saint Mary's) is. They contribute continuity to the school." 
Not only do the Sisters work in education, but they are also active in schools and colleges and childhood and adult pro­grams. 
On a larger scale, the Sisters are active in ministries throughout the world. Although the number of Sisters in the Holy Cross Order has gone from 1650 members in the 1950s to its current 800, the sisters have served in health ministries worldwide within the Holy Cross Health System, which is sponsored by the Congregation. 
The work of the sisters, though often unrecognized, helps to battle problems such as drug abuse, illiteracy, and poverty. The Sisters of the Holy Cross have provided a longstanding tradition not only in the Saint Mary's Community but all over the world. 

~------------~------~--------r------~~------~~-----------------------------------------------­
TO TEST OUR ADVERnSING BRING THIS COUPON & RECEIVE 
IIIII/~~ 

: ONEPAIROF 256 
: SOCKSFOR p 
: 1000s OF PAIRS OF SOCKS 50'!.-70% OFF! 
\.··r·,···············,··r·r·~····
I ,, ..... ,1 ~, 
s.1., :SArURDAY 10 A~ qo:SuNDAY · •U~M -:&:
c . ' i ; ' . . . ' : : i : . i ; : 
:JJi 

'' ~ 
0 
'·0 0 
'"iF'"' 
...,,..,.
, 
Baov&l' WHILE·U·WAIT 
!!!!~~.f!~,~~~!,~8/PR. IBM S2
··~ 
• VACUUMS 
SHAREWARE /DISK

EYEGLASSES 
ASSORTED BED PILLOWS

' '-$39 
MANYTO 
sg

/PR. 6 DI~~S 
FOR $1 0
CHOOSE FROM '""''' ot

~:~S49
iX 
COMPLETEw 
Cb•-------~--------+-------~------~~------~------~--------~------~· 
::» 
~OOs of Game

U) ~...-Cartridges 
NEW & USED

... 
c ~gas
:»·
.,
r_o';,,,,,.,,., NEW &USED GAMES BUY •SELL •TRADE 
J: 
"'""
V£$''[; 
• 
-~ ~~-----~-~ 
~----------~----------~----------------~--~ 
Thursday, April 23, 1992 The Observer page 5 
GSU budget approved by GSC Makiya discusses architecture 
By ELISABETH HEARD and
By SARAH DORAN sitions. Uma Balakrishnan will campus facility for child care 
MARY MURPHY

News Writer serve as treasurer and John was circulated during the 
News Writers 

Checkett secretary. meeting. The proposed 1992-93 Grad­The new position of parlia­A letter from the GSC ad­
"We learn truth and falsehood 
uate Student Union (GSU) bud­mentarian was created and the dressed to the administration in 
from architecture and
get was unanimously approved duties of the position will entail response to the new smoking 
monuments," said Kanan
last night at a meeting of the overseeing the meetings and policy was read. The letter 
Makiya, an Iraqi ex-patriot, in a
Graduate Student Council elections of the GSC. Ulick called the policy too restrictive 
lecture yesterday. 

(GSC). Stafford was appointed to this and discriminatory. It said that 
Makiya, architect and author
The largest change in the position. the policy discriminates most 
of the best-seller "Republic of
budget from last year is the The proposal of taking a sur­against staff and graduate 
Fear," contrasted two monu­
amount of money that wpl be vey of graduate students was students, who are the largest 
ments that he saw during his
allocated to the administrative approved and Patrick Titzer group of smokers. 
clandestine visit to Iraq last
assistance category. Thel allo­was appointed chairman of the The letter called for the need 
November when he spoke on
cation will decrease from last survey committee. to set aside areas of the Huddle 
the "Politics of Monumentalism 
year's figure of $8,500 to The purpose of the survey is and the library concourse for 
in Iraq: From Power to Mourn­
$3,000 due to the salaries of to collate information smoking. 
ing".

officers' positions that have concerning the identity of GSC also addressed the Honor 
The first monument, created
been eliminated and consoli­graduate students, to function Code and how it responds to the 
by Saddam Hussein, exemplifies 
dated into the responsibilities of as a census, and to answer needs of graduate students. It 
the use of art to represent
other workers. certain questions about the was said, in a letter addressed 
power, while the second, a
The amount of the budget is graduate students that will help to the administration from the 
Khurdish memorial, represents
the same as the 1991-92 the GSU function more ef­GSU, that improvements and a 
collective mourning and heal­
amount at $56,450. fectively in meeting the needs of more thought out policy on 
ing.

New officers were installed in the graduate students. behalf of the graduate school 
the treasurer and secretaty po-A petition to support an on was needed. Hussein's monument is a vic­tory arch erected to commemo­rate the Iraqi victory over Iran. The irony of the arch is that it was commissioned thousands of deaths before victory became reality, said Makiya. 
"It's breathtakingly gruesome and uniquely vulgar," he said. "It deserves to be taken more seriously than any other mon-






NOTRE DAME 
TONIGHT!!/ 
The Final Acoustic Cafe ofthe Semester! 
9:00-Midnight April23 Basement Lounge LaFortune 
with MC Ryan Hallford 
Open Microphone: Student Participation Actively Encouraged 
ument worthy of our attention." 

The monument consists of two interlocking swords each held in a forty-ton forearm and fist. Each forearm is an exact replica of Hussein's own arm. The swords are made from stainless steel melted from Iraqi weapons. 
Scattered at the base of the hands are 5,000 helmets of martyred Iraqi soldiers. The pinnacle of the monument is an Iraqi flag stationed above the apex of the swords. 
"The decision to cast his own forearms couldn't be improved upon," Makiya said. "Casting each bump and squiggle mes­merizes...and renders absolute authority." 
This monument however is not purely artistic, according to Makiya. Hussein is concerned with the consumers, not with the art. "Politics as art is poli­tics, not art," Makiya said. . 
The second monument Makiya described as a genuine piece of art honoring the mem­ory of the Khurds, who faced persecution by the Iraqis in 1988. On May 3 of that year, the Iraqis dropped chemical bombs on two hundred houses in a small Khurdish village. This is their memorial. 
It is a rough, unfinished "graveyard memorial" framed by a low retaining wall, said Makiya. Through this monu­ment, "horror and beauty be­come inextricably interdepen­dent upon one another." There are 68 bodies buried by hand in earthen mounds that will be adorned with trees according to Khurdish custom. 
"I have tried to take you on a journey of Iraqui pain... a mon­ument can work or not work irrespective of whether one likes or not likes what it stands for," Makiya concluded. "The paradox in these two monu­ments is that hardly any time has passed on their creation. We are at the beginning of things touching life and death at their rawest moments. Even if the tyrant [Hussein] is dead, the Iraqis have to walk un­derneath the swords to escape the spell." 
IMMEDIATE 
PART-TIME 
OPPORTUNIDES 
LINGUISTS $20,000 Package. $2,000 Starting Bonus. 

The 138th Ml Bn, an Army Reserve unit near you, has a limited number of openings for Military Intelligence Voice Interceptor training. If you ~ual!fy and complete training in this specialty, you get a $2,000 bonus. You'll also earn a good part-time Income for serving usually one weekend a month plus two weeks a year. Your total part-time income during a standard enlistment will be over $13,000. 
If higher education is your goal, you rna~ receive Montgomery Gl Bill money for col.l~ge or approved Vo{T ech tra1nrng--up to $5,040. 
The Army Reserve offers you a $20,000 ~ckage you probably won't find anywhere else for a part-time job. Qpenings are limitea, so call nght now. 
(219) 234-4187 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE ARMY RESERVE 

page 6 The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1992 
discuss the Honor Code and 
how it applies to their particu­lar class with students; 
Honor Skydivers' 
•Expanding the number of
continued from page 1 

subcommittees; 

plane crash 

•Increased communication deans who brought the idea to between the committee, the the Academic Council," she administration. Hall President's 

kills 15 

said. Council, Freshman Year of PERRIS, Calif. (AP) -A plane 
"We want students to feel Studies, Faculty Senate, and loaded with skydivers crashedthis is part of their University. Student Senate; 
during takeoff Wednesday,

This is slowly happening ... stu­•Continued work during killing 15 people and injuringdents are more supportive of an Freshman Orientation presen­seven, authorities said. 
honor code-they are more tations at Washington Hall; The twin-engine De Havillandsupportive of our Honor Code," •Honor Code written on Blue DHC-6 Twin Otter plunged intoexplained Benson. Books for examinations; a grassy area at the southwestMembers of the committee •and ultimately, offer a fully end of a runway at the ruralmet with the Academic Council developed code that students Perris Valley Airport, shearingyesterday afternoon to discuss can "embrace as their own." 
off the nose of the aircraft andthe progress and future of the In the distant future, both wings. 

NO Honor Code. Schroeder said they would like 
Fifteen deaths were con­

Until now, the Honor Code to see an Honor Code system firmed and seven injured vic­system has been somewhat of that is completely student-run. 
tims were hospitalized, said 

an "experiment," according to one that is similar to the that of Ruth Bahler, a spokeswomanSchroeder. The investigations of the University of Virginia while for the California Departmentthe Academic Council may lead at the same time unique to of Forestry-Riverside Countyto the system being "fully Notre Dame. 
Fire Department. Hospitals

approved." Next year's committee mem­listed at least four in critical
To do so, the Council has bers include: professor Edward condition.
formulated a committee of two Kline, College of Arts and Let­The plane, operated by Perrisfaculty members on the Aca­ters; Ed Lavelle, Zahm Hall; Valley Skydiving, had just takendemic Council to work with professor Kevin Misiewicz, Col­off and was about 30 to 40 feet Benson and Schroeder to fur­lege of Business Administration; in the air and 200 yards off the ther examine the Code and help Jay Stone, Fisher Hall; runway when a witness saw it ans~er questions that were not professor Stephen Batill, Col­was in trouble, said fire Capt.
covered in yesterday's meeting, lege of Engineering; Debra Travis Witten. 
said Benson. Heerensperger, Breen-Phillips; "A witness said he heard him
Benson called the meeting a professor Gerald Jones, College feathering an engine, then he"growing experience and chal­of Science; Gary Larson, Dillion lost sight of the plane and itlenge" and said that it "went Hall; Sara Skalicky, Knott Hall; 
crashed," Travis said. That

very well." Andy Dinan. Zahm Hall; Father witness was the owner of the
According to Benson and Oliver Williams, Provost Office; flying service but Travis did not
Schroeder, the future of the Raymond Sepeta, Freshman 
have his name.

Honor Code may include: Year of Studies. 
Names of the victims were•An increase in student in­not released. Twenty-two peo­volvement and input; Faculty members are chosen ple, including two crew mem­

•Dorm representatives at­by the dean of the college, while 
bers, were aboard the plane,

tending department meetings student members are chosen by Witten said. 
within each college; student members of the indi­
The injured were taken to

•Encouraging professors to vidual College Councils. 
hospitals by air and ground ambulances.

sity hinges on the issue of pro­
At the airport, bodies of the

portionality on the Academic

Senate 
dead lay covered by a single

Council. I'm insulted that he 
white tarp about 20 feet from

doesn't trust us as the faculty
continued from page 1 the fuselage.
with the university's Catholic 
The crash was reported at

character." 
11:15 a.m. Firefighters andprofessor. the confrontation In the end, though, the vote 

rescue ambulances were sum­began with Malloy's veto, and was made to withdraw the mo­moned from local agencies andthe motion for a no confidence tion for a vote of no confidence. 

March Air Force Base. 

vote by the Faculty Senate was "I think we have good reason A crowd of spectators stand­a reasonable response. to believe that they (the admin­
ing among parked ultralight

Further concern was ex­istration) have good faith to aircraft watched the rescuespressed in the wording of the participate in debate," said 
and recovery of bodies. 

agreement, which states: "The O'Connor. The president has executive committee members stepped forward to receive in­The Twin Otter routinely flew will speak with confidence put. This is a good opportunity out of the airport, which is aabout this agreement and the to move on to a normal state center for skydiving in ruraldirection the university is tak­between the facuJty and admin­
Riverside County, 60 miles

ing for further development." istration." 
southeast of Los Angeles, said"This sentence clearly shows Joanne Evans, a fire dispatcha lack of trust by the president, In the near future, the Fac­center spokeswoman.

said one Senate member, "I ulty Senate will open up discus­Flying operations at the air­
question the goodwill that's sion through the summer 
port were shut down after the

gone into this." committee which will present crash.
According to another senate an interim report by September member. Malloy "thinks the 1992. 
The Twin Otter is a propeller­Catholic identity of this univer­driven Canadian aircraft de­
signed for carrying passengers

Witnesses counted 94 bodies 
and cargo. It normally carries

at a sports field, and 35 others

Mexico 
up· to 22 people. lt has a

at a Red Cross station. The Red 
wingspan of 65 feet and is just

Cross said at least 100 were
continued from page 1 
under 52 feet long. 

dead and that the toll was ex­pected to rise. 
Earth day celebrated by planting, cleanups 
(AP)-Tree plantings, recycling Pioneer Institute and Gov. programs and beach cleanups William Weld kicked off a headed UB Wednesday's obser­competition for innovative vances of Earth Day as advo­ideas to solve environmental cates worked to increase envi­problems. The institute, a ronmental awareness and con­Boston-based think tank, is servation. offering a total of $25,000 in 
"We are learning we can kill awards for the best ideas. a planet. We are the only "Past Earth Day events have species that can do that," said promoted environmental Norm Steenstra of the West awareness and highlighted en­Virginia Citizen Action Group. vironmental problems," insti­
Scattered observances in­tute Chairman Lovett Peters volved everyone from children said. "Pioneer Institute seeks to state officials. Businesses to shift that focus from aware­placed ads in newspapers pro­ness to action." moting care for the envi­ronment. Peace activists planted -for 
the fifth the time since 1983 ­

Forty middle school students a "children's tree of life" in were organized by the Balti­Palisades Park in Santa Mon­more Harbor Endowment to ica, Calif. The previous New pick up trash along the Zealand pines have been van­waterfront, said executive dalized. director Roxanne Zaghab. The students will get their names Hayward, Calif., is sponsor­permanently engraved in ing an Earth Day Discovery, bricks to adorn a waterfront including exhibits on home walkway. composting and homemade 
cleaning products. Berkeley, 
"The .children actually were Calif.• will hold an Eco-Motion very excited because they feel Parade and Fair featuring like the' harbor has become vehicles with combustion-free their harbor," said Ms. Za­engines Saturday. ghab. 
West Virginia Gov. Gaston 

"If they help to build it, they Caperton unveiled a program certainly won't help to knock it establishing collection centers down," she said. around the state for safe dis-
In Massachusetts, the sal of used motor oil. 
ICAMPUS REPS WANTED I 
To market our programs on campus. 
The perfect job for those bound for graduate school! Look at the advantages: 
• 
Generous compensation! 

• 
Work on your campus! 

• 
Set your own hours! 

• 
Earn BIG commissions! 

• 
Have fun while you work! 

• 
Earn a FREE LSAT, GMAT, GRE or MCAT Prep Course! 


ordered the homeless housed The Red Cross reported at temporarily in the state univer­


·-------------·---------------------------,I
least 1,000 buildings damaged, The Notre Dame African Student Associ,1tion
sity and two sports stadiums. 

many heavily. Guadalajara has Prt'sentsMakeshift morgues were set up been a popular tourist destina-• I 
in gymnasiums and hospitals. 

tion for Americans. I :;:-aces ofWomen I I I
-------------------------,I A Film by Desire Ecare 1
I Color. Ivory Coast. 1985 I
ATIN: NO and SMC.. 11 
I In indigenous languages and French with English I subtitles 1 This could be too HIP for South Bend 
I Award of the International Critique 1 I Award of the International Council of Television & IS IT TOO HIP FOR YOU?I? 
I Movie at Cannes Festival1985-London Festival 1985-I I San Francisco Festival 1986-New Directors/New Films I 
Join us for EARTHBLADE '92 
I at the Museum of Modern Art 1986 I I The First Movie From Ivory Coast to Have Ever I I Reached New York I
A lOK and 3K IN-UNE SKATING RACE 
1 This politically and stylistically adventurous two-part film <"xplores I tht•link between feminism, economics and tradition in modL•rn-day Africa. 1
I 
The Film creates a rich tapestry of the textures and rhythms of village life 1
in conjunction with EARTH DAY USA 
I as well as points out wryly ironic comparisons between the economic and II the sexual stratagems adopted by African women in a patriarchal socit>ty. 
I Venue: Annenburg Auditorium -Snite Museum 
I
Proceeds to benefit Indiana ~~
~<::"" 

I Date: Wednesday April 29, 1992
~ 7 

I Time: 7-8:4'i pm I I Admission: $ 1 01 more donation 
Conservation Society ~ ~ 
I

-:n\ 
~Noire Dame Atrlcan Student A""ocl&don, Educational Media. lntamatlonal I
/:_ (~____\ I 
Students All'aln omce. Anthropology Department, Mrican and Mrk:an·American Studl111 Program I
L-------------------------------------------------~11.................................................................................. . 
~ ---------~­
Thursday, April 23, 1992 The Observer page 7 

Government, rebels join to isolate radical guerilla leader 
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) ­Guerrillas advanced to the capi­tal's edge and joined forces with the crumbling Afghan gov­ernment Wednesday to isolate a radical chieftain and prepare for a rebel-led Islamic govern­ment. 
A force of at least 1,000 Muslim guerrillas moved tq the perimeter of the capital ac~om­panied by an Afghan a1rmy colonel. Guerrilla commanders joined army officers at secprity posts within sight of downtown Kabul. 
After 14 years of civil 1war that has claimed 2 million llves, the mujahedeen rebels were on the verge of conquering the capital and seizing power, re­placing the government of ousted President Najibullah, who went into hiding last week. 
But the takeover was delayed by their indecision on how to share power and who should become the nation's leader. 
For the first time, police said, they were permitting unarmed mujahedeen, or Islamic holy warriors, to enter the city. 
Kabul appeared less tense Wednesday than at any time in the last week. Shops were open and markets were crowded on the first sunny day since the weekend. 
After the nightly 9 p.m. cur­few went into effect, however, tracer bullets flashed across the sky and tanks were heard rumbling through the city. 
The Red Cross said a field nurse was killed by gunfire in Maidan Shar, about 18 miles southwest of Kabul. It gave no details, but the victim report­edly was an Icelander killed by fundamentalist rebels. 
The cooperation in Kabul and provincial towns between the army and moderate guerrillas was directed against radical forces under the command of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. 
Hekmatyar has threatened to attack the capital unless it sur­renders to him by Monday, the anniversary of the 1978 Com­munist coup and the start of the U.S.-supported insurgency. · 
Ahmed Shah Masood, a mod­erate and the country's most powerful rebel commander, be­littled Hekmatyar's fighting 

SUMMERTIME! 

SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY WILL OFFER 


SUMMER STORAGE 
FOR YOUR WINTER ITEMS!! 
STORAGE POUCY: 
• 
STORAGE BEGINS APRIL 13, 1992, WITII DROP OFF AT EITHER SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OR THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER LOCATED ON CAMPUS 

• 
STUDENTS MAY REQUEST TIIAT THE STORAGE FEE BE DEDUCTED FROM THEIR LAUNDRY CONTRACT, HOWEVER, YOU NEED NOT I-lAVE A CONTRACT TO PARTICIPATE 

• 
ALL ITEMS MUST BE LAUNDERED OR DRY CLEANED BY SAINT MICHAEL'S AT THE TIME OF STORAGE AND A $5.00 STORAGE FEEWllLBEADDEDTO YOUR INVOICE ALL ITEMS MUST BE RETRIEVED FROM THE BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION


• 
CENTER (ON CAMPUS) NO LATER THAN SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 OR AN
1 

ADDffiONAL FEE OF 25% OF THE TOTAL INVOICE WILL BE IMPOSED 
SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY OFFICE HRS 7:30A.M. -4:30P.M. M-F 239-7802 SAINT MICHAEL'S BUNDLE DISTRIBUTION CENTER HRS 8:00A.M.-4:30P.M. M-F 239-7565 

·,, 

.. APRIL 21st-23rd 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Thursday. 7:00 PM: "The Superfund" The Foster Room, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Guest Speakers: . Dr. Lloyd Ketchum, Associate Professor, Civil Engineering and Geolog1cal Sciences, University of Notre Dame Mr. James Michael Thunder, Esq., Corporate Environmental Manager, Law Department, Johnson Controls, Inc. 
Mr. James Perron, Mayor of Elkhart, Indiana, Industrial Development Expert 


PROUDLY SPONSORED BY: 
' t u d e n t • ( o r environmental action 

ability and advised him to help form a provisional guerrilla government. 
"Hekmatyar is a warmonger," Masood said at his head­quarters at Charikar, 25 miles north of Kabul. He said he hoped "a common position can be found that includes Hekmat­yar. But if not, the people of Afghanistan will not let him be included." 
Speaking before a meeting with Benon Sevan, the U.N.'s chief negotiator, Masood said: "The peace train has already left and whoever wants to get on should get on or be left be­hind." 
Sevan met a council of more than 100 guerrilla commanders in northern Afghanistan on Tuesday to ask the factions to 
set aside ethnic rivalries and personal ambition. 
Sevan also has been trying to negotiate safe passage for Na­jibullah, who has been under 
U.N. protection in Kabul since he was blocked from leaving the country last Thursday. 
Masood, however, said Na­jibullah should stay and be judged. "Whether he is released or is not released is up to the Afghan nation," he said. 
At the Qalay-i-Sorkh army base north of Charikar, a So­viet-trained Afghan army officer who spent his career fighting the mujahedeen patrolled side by side with his former foes. 
"We support Masood fully," said Col. Mohammed Nayim, an artillery division commander. 
Cabinet calls for a new French constitution 
PARIS (AP)-The Cabinet on Wednesday sent a bill to the National Assembly calling for changes to France's constitution that would allow it to ratify the European Community's treaty on political and monetary union. 
The union treaty is opposed by various factions of the oppo­sition, from the Communist Party to the far-right National Front. Most critics object to a loss of national sovereignty and fear German dominance in a new balance of EC powers. 
Premier Pierre Beregovoy said the proposed changes would be put before the people in a national referendum if the National Assembly failed to ap­prove the bill. 
The measure calls for adding a two-article section to the constitution to make it in har­mony with the EC treaty. 
The changes are necessary to conform to treaty sections al­lowing foreigners to vote in municipal elections and place visa policies in the hands of the EC. 
In France, constitutional changes can be enacted by a three-fifths majority of the two 
Reduce ... 
Reuse ... 
Recycle ... 

houses of parliament or by a national referendum. On April 12, President Francois Mitter­rand rejected submitting the is­sue to a referendum except as a last resort. 
In his 11th year in office, Mit­terrand has staked his reputa­tion on the building of a new Europe. But he must convince skeptics who fear a loss of French sovereignty. 
The Communist Party and the National Front are flatly against the treaty, which was signed by EC members in December. 
A conservative-centrist al­liance, which constitutes the core opposition, is divided over the treaty's merits. A group of leftists, including Communist reformists, Greens and some Socialists, mounted a new chal­lenge with plans to publish a manifesto demanding the rene­gotiation of the Maastricht ac­cords. 
National Front President Jean-Marie Le Pen said ratify­ing the treaty would be the "beginning of the end of France." 
Former President Valery Gis­card d'Estaing, head of a cen­trist coalition. said anyone re­jecting European union "adopts 
a suicidal attitude " 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303 and let us know about it. 
Grand Opening April 3rd 
Rainbow Video WE SPECIAUZE IN: Korean Japanese Chinese Video Tapes Free Membership 
State Road 23 8 Ironwood Next to 76 Gas Station Mon-Sat IO am to IO pm Sun I2 noon to fJ pm 
(ZI9) Z73-9S4S 

r------,.---.-~~~~--~--~--~--~~-.~----------------------~----~----~-----------------------------------~---------~~---­
page 8 The Observer 
l 
lA 
I 
l 
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 

The firing process 
Professor Bill Kremer, head of the ceramics department, works with the salt kiln in Riley Hall to fire ceram­ics projects. The temperature of the kiln will determine the amount of glaze on the clay. 
May Day: Moscow sells Red Square 
NEW YORK (AP) -May Day. Moscow's Red Square is for sale -for one day and for $1 million. 
With Communism dead and Russia in a cash crunch, Moscow is selling the square to foreign companies as advertis­ing space for the celebration that used to honor the workers of the world. 
If $1 million is too much, the sacred Kremlin wall can be had for half that amount. The only thing ofT limits is Lenin's tomb. 
For the first time in decades, May 1 in Moscow won't feature a parade of red banners, tanks, missiles and glorified workers paying homage to the Commu­nist Party and the revolution that brought it to power. 
"But since the revolution, Russians are accustomed that 
• . 
~~-==-~-=-­
t\ORLftU CEnYtR cf6R lt1f <fi R T s 

MOZART 
Requiem Piano Concerto in C 
Chicago Chamber Orchestra, South Bend Chamber Singers, Jeffrey Jacob, piano Nancy Menk, conductor Sunday, April 26 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $12/$10/$5 Saint Mary's students FREE 
Tickets lor all events on sale at the Saint Mary's box oHice, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium,Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Information: 2191284-4626 
---!fi--­
Saint t'v\ary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA

• 
this is a holiday. So, this year we will celebrate freedom," New York Tass bureau chief Yuri Romantsov said. 
"This will be the first official celebration of the new Russia," the ITAR-Tass Russian news agency said in a letter offering Red Square to big business. "Have your day, but bring dol­lars. The city government will say 'nyet' to rubles." 
The New York office of Tass -once the official voice of the old Soviet regime -is the ex­clusive world agent for the deal. 
"The Moscow government has asked us to do this," Igor Makurin, a Tass executive board member, said in a tele­phone interview from Moscow. 
The news agency, now owned by the cash-poor republic of Russia, hired a New York-based 
marketing group, Ikon International, to help it find customers. 
Ikon's managing director, Darryl Marks, said his mission is simple: Raise cash. 
"Missiles don't sell anymore. There's no more money in nukes," he said. 
But there is in advertising. And although billboards for Coca-Cola and Pepsi already can be seen in Pushkin Square and on sides of river boats, the city has never before offered its sacred monuments as advertis­ing backdrops. 
YOU BE THE COACH 
IT'S ANOTHER FIRST FOR IRISH BASEBALL: THE "YOU PICK THE LINEUP" CONTEST! 
Coach Pat Murphy wants your help! On Thursday, April 30, the nationally ranked Irish will take on Eastern Michigan at 3:00pm at Jake Kline Field. And Y.ID! get to pick the starting lineup! Just fill out the ballot and return it as indicated. Then be sure to come out to the game and see how ~ lineup does! 
Include your name and you may be selected to throw out the first pitch!! 
Check one for each position. 
.. .. . . ..,. ....................................... 
3B Robbie Birk _ _Cory Mee 
o·
'T1. 'T1" 2B ("). 
-· _ Greg Layson >· _Robby Birk
~·
ttl:
>. 
~. 1B 
~. 
Joe Binkiewicz 
o. 
o-l. 
Rob Naticchia _ John Rushin 
Your name: 
Phone: 

................................................ 
Please return this ballot to: 
Thursday, April 23, 1992 

Russians debate Lenin's legacy 
MOSCOW (AP) -Viktor Kuzmichev wears his politics on his back, in the form of a red hammer-and-sickle vest that made him a center of attention in Red Square Wednesday, the 122nd anniversary of Vladimir Lenin's birth. 
"Our ideology was to free the world from slavery!" shouted Kuzmichev, 55, who flew to Moscow from the Central Asian city of Tashkent to mark the anniversary. 
It was the first time since Lenin's death in 1924 that the government did not organize official celebrations to celebrate the birthday of the fiery revolutionary who founded the Soviet Union in 1917. 
Small groups of Communists, like Kuzmichev, gathered across the country to honor Lenin. 
And Russian media, which in past years had deified the bald­ing, bearded Lenin, this week engaged in serious debate on his legacy. 
Anti-Communists condemn him as the founder of a bloody regime that killed millions of people in the name of a flawed 
Hey Anton, 
Who taught you how 
to punch........JUAN?!I HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY! 
philosophy. Communists hail Lenin as a great friend of hu­manity. 
At Lenin's Mausoleum in Red Square, two dozen people nod­ded in agreement as Kuzmichev railed against the reformers who now rule the Kremlin. 
But these Lenin boosters, men and women in their 50s and 60s, were far outnumbered by the thousands of peddlers trading everything from apples to zodiacs along downtown sidewalks -a younger genera­tion building capitalism on the ruins of Lenin's failed socialist experiment. 
"Here's Lenin!" said Sergei Kolesnikov, 18. holding up a small painted wooden nub, the smallest doll in a nest he was selling on the sidewalk in front of Moscow's Lenin Museum, just ofT Red Square. 
"We read Lenin's works in school," Kolesnikov said. "He was a great man, and remains one. But I am not interested in him. I am not interested in so­cialism." 
The debate is more important for the older generation. 




Baseball Lineup Contest Athletic Department JACC 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ss RF 
Craig Counsell _ Eric Danapilis Paul Failla Eddie Hartwell 
"E-< 
·o

LF {;_ "...l
•...l

Paul Failla Matt Haas •..( Steve Verduzco Bob Lisanti ·~ 
"...l 
:=s 

.cE DH ·~ Dan Bautch Pat Leahy : tt Mike Rooney =Adam Maisano : 0 
_ Craig DeSensi 
~------~-------~-~---------~­
Thursday, April 23, 1992 

..SENJORS ...SENJORS ••.SENJORS .•.SENJORS ...SENIORS ... 
~ ~ 
::: (:(11 Nr. !(1 II Nrtd \1 T\' ~ ;5 
~ c ~ CIIR[fR 6 PLACfWNT 5frt'IC[5 CIIIJ llflr \'(lll L; 

f l NV OTHER N. 0. GRIIrS Gl'l NC: TV TilE SAI.If 
Vl 
~ 
Cl1 y. ...... 
c 
STOP BY III-IV SIGN UP 1-ilXll' 

~ 
Vl I'll 
:5 
0 
L; 
~ 
~ 



Suitcase Party Lunch 
1'riday at .9L{umni-Senior C{u6 $.._affCe 'Begins at 12:30 'Tuksts .9Lvaifa6{e at 
La1'ortune Info 'lJest 
and at tlie 'Door 
The Observer page 9 
AMHERST, N.Y. (AP)-Police arrested nearly 200 abortion opponents who charged a women's clinic Wednesday in a melee that was in sharp con­trast to the staid abortion ar­guments being presented before the U.S. Supreme Court. 
Anti-abortion demonstrators surged onto a four-lane high­way and tried to rush past po­lice barricades and about 150 abortion-rights activists in front of the suburban Buffalo clinic. 
The arrests occurred on the second day of large-scale abortion demonstrations in the Buffalo area by Operation Res­cue. At the same time, the Supreme Court was hearing ar­guments on an abortion case from Pennsylvania. 
Several hundred demonstra­tors also waved placards and chanted outside the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C. 
In Philadelphia, about 100 abortion-rights activists demonstrated in front of the Liberty Bell and another 40 marched to the city morgue, predicting the high court would curtail abortion with drastic consequences. 
About 300 abortion opponents rallied at the Illinois Statehouse in Springfield to demand passage of a bill requiring women to be told their options before having abortions. 
In Buffalo, the Rev. Robert Schenck, an abortion protest organizer from suburban Ton­awanda, said the demonstration hadn't been timed to coincide with the Supreme Court arguments. 
Protesters went limp and were carried or dragged by po­lice through the crowd of abortion-rights demonstrators to buses. Police bound protesters' wrists with plastic handcuffs. 
Police also used the handcuffs to bind the feet of the Rev. John Hunter, an anti-abortion leader from nearby Lockport, after he broke through the line of abor­tion-rights activists and dashed toward the clinic door. 
Some of those arrested lay handcuffed in the street for 30 minutes as demonstrators on both sides taunted one another from opposite sides of the road. Police blocked traffic on the highway, and about 100 officers tried to keep the two sides separated. 
A bus in which some Opera­tion Rescue demonstrators had arrived was towed away from the front of the clinic. 
Abortion-rights activists chanted "God is a woman, and she's pro-choice!" They mocked abortion opponents by shouting, "A baby a year until you drop!" 
Anti-abortion demonstrators prayed and sang hymns, hold­ing signs such as "A Baby Is a Person, No Matter How Small," and a poster showing a baby in the womb with the caption, "Mommy, Please Go Home, I Want To Live." 
"We have some very coura­geous and conscientious people who are braving humiliation to save human life," Schenck said. 
Susan Ferron, an abortion­rights activist from New Or­leans, countered: "Operation 
Rescue thinks it's a success ev­ery time they throw themselves in the street and get arrested. They consider that one more inch into heaven. They're not doing anything. The clinic is open." 
Linda Stadler, office manager for the Amherst clinic operated by Dr. Shalom Press, said demonstrators hadn't stopped women from getting into the clinic for abortions. 
Those arrested included 191 anti-abortion protesters, said Amherst Town Justice Sam Maislin. Demonstrators were charged with disorderly con­duct, resisting arrest and tres­passing, Amherst police Capt. Frank Olesko said. 
Five news media photogra­phers were arrested, though charges against one of the pho­tographers were dropped be­cause a complaint against him wasn't signed. One abortion­rights demonstrator also was handcuffed and taken away. 
Robert Murphy, an Operation Rescue attorney, said 17 5 of the arrested protesters refused to identify themselves to police. He said they probably would be jailed until police could to identify them for arraignment. 
The photographers were ar­raigned on two counts each of disorderly conduct and were released. 
Protesters from both sides also demonstrated at three clinics in Buffalo, but police said there were no arrests. About 20 anti-abortion demon­strators protested outside Press' house . 
Death-row inmate awaits execution 
0 z: mates, who faced execution 
.... 
:z oafter midnight. ~ S?1(l1N3S" •• S?10 IN3S • .•SlWIN3S" •• S?10IN3S' •• S?10lN3S' ' ~ Billy Wayne White's attorneys, 

HUNTSVILLE, Texas (AP)­The U.S. Supreme Court con­sidered a last-minute appeal Wednesday from one of Texas' longest-serving death row in­
IllALUMNI 



i!:CLUB 

./: ":.;":
..... 
~!~ 
(!{
•.I'• 
":,;":
..... 
~-=:. 
•.I'• 
~· ..
":~~ 
":,;":
..... 
~'!':, 
~~~ ~,;.":
..... 
~(:.; 
""'"
":,;": 
.....
.t« 
~'!'~ ~ ~-=:. 
""'" 
":,;":
...... 
~!~ ~o!'~
•.I'•
":J.": 

provoked by the victim, Martha Spinks, who sprayed him with a can of chemical Mace during the robbery. 
White told fellow inmates Spinks sprayed him with the chemical and his gun went off . He also contended police tam­pered with evidence. 
"This is a case, more than any other in the state, that has fallen through a dreadful crack," said Richard Burr, an attorney for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. "This is a case Texans have got to stand up and say no about." 
Larry Urquhart, who prose­cuted the case, said he still thinks the verdict was just. 
The issues of mental retarda­tion and provocation never were presented at his trial, where White was dubbed "Sleeping Billy" because he slept and snored loudly through Urquhart's closing arguments. 
White spent more than 14 years on death row while his appeals were considered, mostly in state courts, making him among the longest-serving of the 356 Texas inmates awaiting death. 
This summer, the place to be is /USB! 
1992 SUMMER SESSIONS 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTII BEND 
Session I: May 18-June 29 (Register May 13-14) Session II: July 6-Aug. 14 (Register June 3D-July 1) 
For schedules and information on requirements for guest students, contact !USB Admissions Office, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., P.~. Box 7111, South Bend, lN 46634 (phone 219-237-4455) as soon as poss1ble . 
li/SB 
Malee your summer count 
page 10 The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1992 
Brown students protest; Rutgers' make demands 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) -ident Vartan Gregorian's office. Dozens of Brown University It grew into a noisy demonstra­students were arrested tion and spilled outside as se­Wednesday after taking over curity guards tried unsuccess­the campus administration fully to keep order. building to demand that the Ivy "We'll stay here until we get League school stop judging ap­our demands met or until they plicants by their ability to pay. arrest us," said senior Meredith 
Meanwhile, in New Jersey, six Kolodner, a member of the Rutgers University students oc­organizing group, Students for cupied the building housing the Aid and Minority Admissions. university's main switchboard The students want a "need­to demand a tuition freeze. blind" admissions policy, in 
They ignored a judge's order to which students would be admit­leave and handcuffed them­ted solely on the basis of their selves together. qualifications and the university 
Police stood by but took no would give them any financial immediate action while stu­aid they needed. dents tried but failed to get a Only about a dozen schools quick hearing on an appeal of nationally have such a policy, the judge's order. but they include most of the 
Brown officials also obtained other Ivy League schools. a court order and after a day­They said the current policy is long protest, university police "class-biased" and prevents the began arresting students at 6 university from achieving cul­p.m., when the building was to tural and social diversity. close. Police couldn't immedi­ately say how many students Brown executive vice presi­
were arrested nor identify the dent Robert Reichley said the charges. university can't afford to spend
The Observer/Kyle Kusek 

Head to head 
The Brown protest started as any more than its current $19.2 
These clay busts, the work of ceramics students in Riley Hall, await future work. 
a sit-in outside university pres-million on financial aid. 
Day care owner convicted of child abuse 
FARMVILLE, N.C. (AP)-The that were criticized by jurors -and never wavered was with a 
WE'RE PUTnNG DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
owner of a day care center was and the defendants were ac­reason," said Dillard Dixon, 
Partnership for a Drug· Free America 
convicted Wednesday on 99 of quitted. father of one of the children. 100 charges of sexually abusing In the Little Rascals trial, 12 Deputies escorted Jurors to children under his care. The victims testified. At least one their cars when court recessed. 
verdict culminated the longest 
and costliest criminal trial in 
state history. 
Robert Kelly Jr., who owned 
the now-closed Little Rascals 
Day Care Center in Edenton, 
was acquitted only of a single 
eharge of taking indecent liber­
ties with one girl. 
Mter 14 days of deliberating, the jury convicted Kelly of abusing 12 children. He was found guilty of four counts of rape, 46 of taking indecent lib­erties, 36 of first-degree sexual offense and 13 crimes against nature. 
"I'm innocent. I'll go to prison and fight it from there," Kelly said as he was being led to a deputy's car. 
The charges carry a maxi­mum penalty of 40 life terms plus 560 years. Judge D. Marsh McLelland scheduled sentencing for Thursday. Six other people also face trials in the case. 
In its length, cost and subject matter, the trial drew compar­isons to the McMartin Pre­school trial in California, the nation's longest and costliest criminal trial at seven years and more than $13.5 million. 
But there were crucial differ­ences. In the McMartin case, the children's testimony con­sisted of videotaped interviews juror, Dennis Ray, said that was 
an important reason for the 
conviction. 
"The children were convinc­
ing," he said. 
The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1990 that child-abuse victims may be shielded from court­room confrontations with their alleged abuser, through video­taped testimony, closed-circuit television or testimony by the people who interviewed them. 
Kelly, 44, briefly closed his eyes as the verdict was read. His wife, Betsy, who faces charges of sexually abusing children at the center, began crying. 
Prosecutor Nancy Lamb and the mothers of the victims burst into tears. Court officials handed out tissues. 
Ms. Lamb said she was "100 percent thrilled. This is the most rewarding feeling I think I've ever had." 
The mother of one child voiced relief. 
"I'm glad I can go home and tell my son that his voice was heard, and that's the most im­portant thing of all," Peggy Brooks said. 
The verdict "just solidifies the fact that it happened without a doubt, never any question. It shows the vigil the parents kept 
Households stop shrinking 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The American household has stopped shrinking, interrupting a 140-year trend toward less togetherness. 
A Census Bureau report Wednesday showed that the na­tion's dwellings were inhabited by an an average of 2.63 people last year, exactly the same number as the previous year, and virtually identical to 1989's figure of 2.62. 
The recent numbers reflect at least a stall in the slow but steady decline in household sizes since 1850, when the av­erage was 5.55 people. 
Households quit getting smaller partly because of hard times, and partly because many adults from the huge "baby boom" generation are only now producing children of their own. analysts say. 
Generally, anyone born from 1946 through 1964 has baby­boom credentials. 
"The baby boomers now are past family formation," said demographer Carl Haub of the Population Reference Bureau. But "If they're spacing children, some of them are having them now." 
Census Bureau demographer Steve Rawlings, author of the study, said another factor was the onset of recession in 1989, likely persuading more young adults to remain at home with their parents, as opposed to setting out on their own. 
Among the signs that families were having more trouble mak­ing ends meet: the number of households where married cou­ples or singles with children lived with relatives rose for two straight years. 
As jurors walked past parents 
seated on the front row and 
along the aisle, many shook 
hands with parents, who 
thanked them. 
Testimony began last August in the Little Rascals case, which was moved 85 miles west from Edenton to Farmville because of pretrial publicity. In addition to being the longest criminal trial in North Carolina history, it set a record for the longest jury deliberations. 
Expenses, including court­appointed defense lawyers, counseling for children and their parents and court costs, have topped $1.2 million. 
The defense contended that parents in Edenton, a town of about 5,800 in northeastern North Carolina, had become hysterical over rumors of sexual abuse and had asked their children leading questions. 
"The biggest question is not so much \Yhat the children were saying but how they came to say those things," defense lawyer Michael Spivey said dur­ing closing arguments. 
Prosecutors contended the children had to be believed. 
"The crux of the matter is it's the children's word versus the defendant's word," said District Attorney H.P. Williams Jr. 
Hertz 
PEMSKE 
Truck Rental 

For Do-lt-Yourself Moves 
Local • one way 

~l;:Jh, ~~0 E=',§l ~h  
10 fl. Vans  14 H. Vans  18 H. Vans  24 H. Vans  
1·2 Rooms  2·3 Rooms  4-5 11ooms  6·8 ~looms  

Low Rates • Free Unlimited Mileage on One Way Rentals 
• A1r CondtiiOntng and Aulomaltr. TransmiSSIOn • New. Clean Top-M~tr'l"1ned MO<Jels 
• Butll·ln Loadtng Ramps • 24-Hour Eme1gency Road Serv1ce 7 Oavs a Week 
• Full L1ne ol Moving Accessor~es Including Tow Dollies HancJ Trucks 
Pads and Car1ons • Free Mnvmg GtH(1e • Prolcr.IIC'fl Plans • Most MaJOr Crer11l C,lf(/5 Af..CDJ>IC't1 
South Bend 
277-0144 
Mishawaka 


234-9665 
"Ask for your 10% student discount" 
For One Way Reservalions. Call 1-800-222-0277 
Penske Truck leas1ng Co 1991 


_________________,_________ _____ 
Business 
Thursday, April 23, 1992 page 11 

Inn scheduled to open for business at SMC 
By NICOLE MCGRATH that the idea was seriously con­Business Writer sidered, according to Hol­lenkamp. 
The Inn at Saint Mary's is on The Holladay corporation was schedule to open April 24, ac­approached by Holy Cross cording to the inn's General Shared Service representative Manager Judy Chick. John O'Connel later that year, 
"The project has been devel­said Hollenkamp. oped at a cost of about 6.4 mil­The inn's site was chosen to lion dollars", said general con­convenience visitors who tractor Frank Perri. wanted to be close to the cam­
The inn's construction is pus. According to Hollenkamp, being financed through Valley the general counsel's hope was American Bank. that the inn and the college 
The inn is part of a joint ven­would have joint activities to­ture of the Sisters of the Holy gether. Cross and the Holladay Corpo­The counsel refused to have ration."The sisters have signifi­the inn near the main entrance cant control on the project", because of added traffic, ex­stated Holy Cross Shared Ser­plained Hollenkamp. They also vices representative John Hol­did not want the inn blocking lenkamp. the view of the college. 
Saint Mary's College is not The inn contains 120 rooms, part of the venture but will reap five of which will contain many benefits, according to jacuzzis, said Chick. A gift Hollenkamp. store, two meeting rooms and 
The Holy Cross Shared Ser­a business office are only some vices oversees the interest of of the services that will be of­the Sisters' general counsel." fered to hotel guests, according The counsel does not have the to Chick. time to stay directly involved", Price will range from $60 and said Hollenkamp. up and they are subject toWASHINGTON (AP) -The potential access to $45 billion in a briefing that further decline The general counsel wants change during special times ofnegative impact of tl)e at­IMF and World Bank loans for in output in the former Soviet the hotel to reflect the college the year such as graduation,tempted shift to capitalism in their strapped economies. republics "is more likely than and congregation's attitude. said Chick. Already the inn isthe former Soviet Union has Prior to the formal start of the not" for the remainder of the "They did not want a Howard booked for this fall. 
been greater than expected and meeting, the staff issued its year. 
Johnson," stated Hollenkamp. A contest was held last fall in"the reform process has !barely survey of the world economy. Michael Camdessus, manag­The concept of a hotel has order to pick the name, accord­started." an IMF study said The report said that "given ing director of the IMF, has es­been discussed off and on for ing to Jo Ann Mullin, a Sister of Wednesday. the profound distortions" of the timated that output in the the last fifteen years. Many the Holy Cross representative.
In its survey of the World communist economic system "it former Soviet Union dropped 17 corporations have approached Out of 125 entries, campus em­Economic Outlook, the staff of is hardly surprising that the percent last year. 
the general counsel in that time ployee Jackie Norris createdthe International Monetary initial stage of reform has been "In our interdependent world, but it wasn't until July 1989 the winning name.
Fund (IMF) said the traqsition marked by output losses. growth in any country is linked from communism to a nllarket However the extent of the to growth in all through trade," economy "is unprecedented in economic contraction has been said Camdessus in arguing for a 
Panel blasts Feds for 
scope and in its impact." greater than anticipated." massive international So far, the IMF staff conbeded, While the study found signs of commitment. the impact has been l~rgely a bottoming out in some 
not collecting S&L debt 
negative. ' Eastern European countries, it Membership in the Interna­At its annual spring mfting, noted that "in the republics of tional Monetary Fund and WASHINGTON (AP) -The who were wealthy when tbeythe IMF was expected to admit the former U.S.S.R., the reform World Bank is a key element in federal government has "failed first came under governmentthe 15 former republics . f the process has barely started." strategies for shifting them to miserably" in collecting mil­investigation have paid little or Soviet Union to full member­Michael Mussa, director of the free enterprise economies after lions. of dollars in penalties no restitution because govern­ship, making them eligible for IMF research department, told generations of communism. 
fronfconvicted savings and ment inaction allowed them loan criminals -some of time to transfer, hide or whom continue to live lavishly. otherwise squander their a Hou$~ banking assets prior. to being sentenced 
IMF cuts economic growth prediction 
WASHINGTON (AP) ___;__ The The IMF said that it now be-risks to the forecast," said subcommittee chairman to pay restitution." 
world economy will struggle lieved a significant upturn in Michael Mussa, director of the charged Wednesday. Courts assessed over $42 
back to growth this yea,r, but world growth will occur a year IMF's research department A; -~~udy of 19 people co_n2 million in restitution againstthe rate will be half what had later than it had previously The IMF's revised outlook was victed in S&L fraud cases the 19 convicted men surveyedbeen expected, the Intbrna-thought, forecasting growth of issued as finance officials began found they collectively paid by the subcommittee. To date,tiona! Monetary Fund (IMF) 3.6 percent in 1993. arriving for the annual spring less than one cent on the less than $400,000 has been said Wednesday. b However, IMF officials con-meeting of the 156-nation IMF dollar in restitution, said Rep; collected, the panel said. 
The IMF's new economi out-ceded that there were risks that and its sister lending Frank AnnunZio, D-Ill., head of The report places blame pri­look blamed the poor expecta-even their lowered expectations organization, the World Bank. 
a panel _ on financial marily on.tbe Justice Depart­tion on the aborted upt~rn in might not be met. They listed This year's meeting was ex­
iJ:lst~tu~ons $ll:pe.r:vi.S!o_n in the me~~< and the Federal Deposit
the United States last fall, the key threats as persistently pected to be highllighted by Coml@lttee •· on $anking, Insurance Corp., citing their spreading weakness in Europe high interest rates in Germany membership approval for Rus­Finance and Urban Affairs. "disorganized collection ef­and Japan and the chaos in the and other European nations, sia and the other former Soviet '~I me CJ!;S6S, defendants forts," In four of the 19 cases,former Soviet Union. i which could further depress republics. In addition to argu­who ssesse.t,l substantial as~ the subctmiruittee found The IMF projected that the growth prospects in the region, ments over how much in finan­sets at the time of their sen~ federal judges at fault for not world economy would grow at a and a danger the Japanese cial assistance to provide the 
_tenting h(!;ve since p~id little immediately ordering
rate of 1.4 percent this year. economy will not rebound as former Soviet Union, the fi­or nh restitution,''-Annunzio restitution and sometimes 
·~aiel·'··· ..-'-' ..•. ,. · '· ----· ' · • --­
That compares to a far more anticipated because of jittery nance officials were expected to 
allowing the convicted men 
optimistic 2.8 percent financial markets. debate how best to spur the "In other cases, defendants years to repay the money.
projection made 6 months ago. "There are clearly downside world economy. 
Bush and European leaders in stalemate over global trade talks 
I, 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi-"We are committed to 
"We explored a lot of things ing. "There was a feeling at the dent Bush and EuropeanIlead-achieving an early agreement," and I would say that clearly end that a good faith effort had ers failed to break a deadlt. ck in Bush said, reiterating an oft­that Delors wants us to move been made by both sides to global trade talks Wednes ay as stated goal of his three-year further and his side to move bridge the gap and that the both sides refused to give presidency. less," Hills said. Despite the ideas put forward were suffi­ground in a long-running feud Likewise, Cavaco Silva said, impasse, she said "the atmo­ciently promising to justify fur­over farm subsidies. "We are determined to bring spherics were very good. Both ther discussion." 
"We exchanged a l~t of (the negotiations) to a positive sides were searching for a way European leaders are under ideas," Trade Representative conclusion." Bush and Cavaco around the impasse and that pressure from powerful farm Carla Hills said afterward. "I Silva spoke of "new ideas" but was constructive." lobbies not to give up agricul­don't think that any of the lideas did not elaborate. Hills indi­Assistant Secretary of State tural subsidies long accepted as hit horne." No date was se~ for a cated the ideas were a combi­Thomas Niles said that "it was a way of life. France has led the resumption of the talks;, she nation or repackaging of old not possible to determine resistance. said. proposals. whether any or all of the ideas 
Bush met for 2 1/2 houd with Now in their sixth year, the that were advanced will be For his part, Bush faces do­
George Bush

Jacques Delors, president bf the negotiations involve 108 nations helpful in bringing us together mestic opposition from a coali­European Commission, and and are aimed at removing refusal of European leaders to or not. ... tion of groups arguing that a Portugal's prime minister, Ani-trade obstacles such as quotas, slash agricultural subsidies, as "We did not end up further global agreement would un­bel Cavaco Silva, currently tariffs and subsidies that distort demanded by the United States apart at the end of the day than dermine environmental, con­president of the European prices. to equalize competition interna-we were when we went in," sumer and labor laws in the C~mncil. . . . The .chief sticking point is the tionallv. _ _ . . . _.., Niles told a White House brief-United States . 
..............._..,,............................._ ..........._..................................... t ........................... t_. 'l4lo ·'-~L"'~•..a. ....~ ...-~.,...i.\..·L~~''* ~ 
Viewpoint 
Page 12 Thursday, April 23, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor ...•••.••••..•••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ••••••••••..•Michael Scrudato Production Manager •........ Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor .•••••......Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .•.••••..••••.Patrick Barth Photo Edltor....•.••.•.Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through leners. is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Christian morality does not justify censorship of art 
Dear Editor: public museums and galleries." Thankfully, he has the insight to reprehensible? One wonders if adults now, and are able to 
We were very disturbed to We are not sure if Mr. Catania is see "only a gratuitous exhi­he would have the same vehe­make informed decisions about 
read Jason Catania's homo­implying that Catholics are bition of sexual activity which ment reaction to a photograph all issues, including sexuality. 
phobic, ignorant criticism (The more susceptible to moral de­has no relevance to the stated collection of female nudes in Catholicism has no jurisdiction Observer, April 14, 1992) of cay than the general public, or themes of the artist." From similar poses. over this exhibit, and it is highly Robert Flynt's photographic that they are merely incapable this, we may presume that after This is just thinly veiled ho­unlikely that viewing these exhibition, "Wetwork," which is of adequately coming to terms consultation with Mr. Flynt, Mr. mophobia attempting to hide photographs will endanger our currently on display in Riley with artwork on their own. Catania has fully understood his behind ambiguous Catholic ide­Christian morality, as Mr. IIall. Cases could be made for both themes, and gained profound als. The Catholic Church does Catania apparently believes. We do not feel that those interpretations. insight into his motivations. not forbid homosexuality or Naive and over-simplified personal beliefs adequately We do agree with Mr. Catania, The facts simply do not sup­homoeroticism per se, rather, it beliefs are more dangerous to support his advocation of cen­however, that elimination of the port Mr. Catania's rhetoric. The treats the act of homosexual people than a handful of sorship. artwork would prevent other exhibit itself consists of intercourse as forbidden. In ambiguous, mildly erotic pho­
Naturally, Mr. Catania begins students from being shocked shadowy, obscured, underwater addition to misinterpreting the tographs ever could be. by categorically denying any and offended in much the same photographs of nude and semi­Church's message, under the Christianity holds compassion desire to censor, but he contra­way that banning books, music nude males. Some are swim­same false logic, he would seek for all people. If Mr. Catania is dicts himself by saying that it is and films would accomplish the ming, while others are embrac­to ban all artwork depicting so callous as to deny "unacceptable that the Art same objective. Extending this ing and kissing. There is no contraceptives, premarital sex, compassion to homosexuals, or Department should so promi­reasoning further, I suppose overt sexual activity and the adultery, divorce or any of the to trivialize the plight of AIDS nently display" Mr. Flynt's work. that in a utopian society we exhibit could in no way be clas­myriad "evils" that the Catholic victims, then one cannot help Perhaps Mr. Catania's definition could all be sheltered from sified as pornography. Church has dictated over the but call his purported of censorship differs from our things which are different, or In fact, the very nature of the years. It is obvious that Mr. Christianity into question. We definition, but the removal of things that we don't particularly photographs fosters ambiguity; Catania has singled out feel that Mr. Catania's hypocrisy artwork from a public place like. All we need, Mr. Catania in many cases it is impossible to "Wetwork" purely because he is is the r-eal danger here. solely on the basis of personal implies, is for an institution to see the models clearly. Mr. personally uncomfortable with Censorship and prejudice are preference, in our opinion, falls tell us what we should and Catania has greatly exaggerated the content. This contradicts his two concepts that can never under the dangerous categories should not see, read or hear. the imagery, and apparently entire defense of artwork being have places in the lives of true of censorship and repression. What is most disturbing is Mr. embellished what was actually appropriate to a Catholic Christians. 
Mr. Catania discusses the Catania's cognizance of the shown. Even if the pictures institution. Tracey Daugherty inappropriateness of such an artist's motivations and themes. were as lurid and explicit as Mr. One does not have to agree Farley Hall exhibition at a Catholic univer­His willingness to interpret Catania would have people with the artist or the subject George Long sity, but concedes Mr. Flynt's these topics unfortunately believe, does that make his matter, but dissent is not a Flanner Hall ability to "exhibit his art in illustrate his ignorance. closed-minded agenda any less license to censor. We are all April 14, 1992 
Napkin abuse only the tip of our mountainous environmental problem 
Dear Editor: The fifteen of us estimated that day at NOH and close to one takes up space in a landfill. wonderful dining hall calories 
Students for Environmental 90 percent of the trays being half are wasted. The landfills of Northern at the same time. At home, try Action began collecting unused returned had at least one That's money to all of us, but Indiana are estimated to have cloth napkins. If everyone took napkins off the dinner trays at unused napkin. Some trays had more importantly detrimental remaining lifetimes of 5 years the time to think about what North Dining Hall. Some of you many and a few had stacks an to the environment. Imagine if or less. That's the ones that are they consume and how much thought we were working, inch thick! we add in South Dining Hall, still open; most are already full. we all waste we'd all make a others asked what we were do­If you've been in LaFortune the Huddle, and the Oak Room. You can make a difference and better effort to conserve and the ing, and a few even thought we the last couple days you've seen Now take into account three do something about the prob­earth would be a much better were recycling them! Well, we our display: 8 full garbage bags meals a day, seven days a week, lem without expending a lot of place. Think about it. weren't getting paid and recy­of napkins from only five fifteen weeks per semester, and effort. Instead of taking four Mike Kamradt cling would be a bit on the un­dinners at North Dining Hall! so on. In one year, we might be napkins, take two. Use only Off-campus sanitary side. Dave Brightbach, manager of able to build a mountain of what you need! If you need an­Felicia Johnson 
The point was to get an indi­North Dining Hall said that napkins as high as the Dome. other napkin, get up and get Lyons Hall cation of how much we waste. 20,000 napkins are used each Each napkin you throw away one; you can burn all those April 21 , 1992 

Viewpoint
Thursday, April 23, 1992 Page 13 
ND wrestler vows to not 'forget where he came from' 
One doesn't have to look far to find ancient references ~o wrestling. You'll find one in the Bible, right in the book ;of Genesis. In chapter 32, verses 24 to 32, there's an account of a match between Jacob and the angel God sent to test his phys­ical and spiritual resolve. "So Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him there till daybreak. When the man Sqw that he could not throw Jacob, he struck him in the hollow ;or his thigh, so that Jacob's hip was dislocated as they wres­tled." 
Some 3,000 years before the Christian era, wrestling was an organized sport with national, and possibly international, competitions. Ancient Hebr(jw and Sumerian champions we!re immortalized in stone aJild scroll. Wrestling, indeed, is the oldest and toughest spo!rt known to man. 
This past (April 10) Friday at 
4:00 p.m., as a member of the varsity wrestling program, my team and I were notified that wrestling was being discontin­ued as a varsity sport at the University of Notre Dame. We were notified by our coaches who were, to say the least, dev­astated by the very unexpected, untimely, and shocking news. I had never seen two grown men cry, and naturally my heart went out to them. 
Although I am only a fresb­men and have only been her~ a year, I recognized the dedic!a­tion and commitment that the coaches exhibited. I realized that they were concerned with more than just winning; they were concerned about the indi­viduals that comprised our team. "Though he will no longer be coaching, McCann :is expected to remain at t~e University, in a P.E. coaching capacity and still direct the summer camps," said athletic director Dick Rosenthal. 
What consolation is this? McCann is taking a $12,000 pay cut. Moreover, his removal as a varsity coach at Notre Dame is
1 

very reminiscent of when Jerry Jones took over the Dallas Cowboys and unceremoniously fired coaching legend, Tom Landry. When notifying us of the terrible news, McCann broke down and cried. Our as­sistant, Rick Stewart, who was a two time national champion and four time All-American for Oklahoma State, filled in and told us. 
Because the wrestling team was dropped, Rick Stewart is now unemployed. He has a wife, three children, and was not making an enormous amount of money to begin with. Despite these facts, he coached us because he loved the sport and he loved us and wanted us to be the best. Because of his vast knowledge of the sport, I have no doubt that he will be hired by one of the best wrestling schools. He will eventually become a head coach, and build that school to become a national power. But presently he is faced with many pressing issues such as how to pay for his home in South Bend. 
Throughout the weekend filled with tears, apprehension, doubt, and much sadness, one very large question loomed: why did a University as great and as well endowed as Notre Dame drop the wrestling pro­gram? Athletic Director Dick Rosenthal cited very weak and ambiguous reasons for the re­moval of the sport. 
"Wrestling is the only one of all our varsity sports that is not represented within the in­tramural activities offered through our RecSports de­partment or as a Physical Education department offer­ing." In response to this ridicu­lous reason, I can only say that wrestling is not a "country club" sport, such as tennis or racquetball, and one cannot de­cide on a whim one day to go wrestle with a friend. 
Years of training are involved, and one must be in great shape. Additionally, the University has not recently sponsored any Non-Varsity athletic wrestling tournaments-as they do at practically every other major university. Rosenthal went on to say, "Though our program has enjoyed some success at the national level over the last eight years, that has not translated 
Harris Brume:r 
Guest Columnist 

into the fan interest we might have hoped for." Fan support is very hard to come by when your sport is not promoted by the athletic department. 
There was absolutely no noti­fication of upcoming matches or tournaments and I was fre­quently asked by numerous people when our next match was. When coaches went to the athletic department to see if they could promote wrestling by having a poster of the team on it with a schedule-the idea was shot down. Lacrosse now has a poster with their schedule on it. 
And so, Mr. Rosenthal, if proper promotion were given, wrestling could have been a major spectator sport. After all, it is the third largest NCAA spectator sport. For example, The University of Iowa Hawkeyes, who were the 1992 National Champions, have an average attendance of 11,000 for dual meets and had a record breaking 15,500 for their match with Iowa State. 
More insultingly Rosenthal said, 'I ultimately, we feel the funds allocated to wrestling can better be directed toward programs that will more di­rectly impact a larger portion of the student body and University community." Approximately ten years ago, Notre Dame received a 3 million dollar endowment strictly for the sport of wrestling, by an alumnus named Bucky O'Connor, in honor of his son, who was a Notre Dame wrestler and was killed. 
Bucky O'Connor has since passed away and it is my belief and many others on tlh.e team, that in order for Dick Rosenthal to take this money, he had to drop the sport of wrestling. What a tremendous disgrace to the O'Connor name to not carry out this man's wishes, especially at a place like Notre Dame where one's word should be commitment enough to the "family." 
Why not build a total sports program like that of The 
University of Michigan (Ann Arbor)? They have beaten us in football, basketball, and inost likely would have in wrestling­due to the firm support of their athletic department in an equal and fair commitment to all their sports. And as far as academic standards are concerned, the University of Michigan is as good, if not better, than Notre Dame. 
The lone bright spot in the whole affair, is the number of colleges constantly bombarding Coach McCann with phone calls interested in picking up wrestlers interested in trans~ ferring. Coach McCann took some solace from this as he said with a smile,"The news has been out less than two hours and already the phone is going crazy." 
Personally, I have many goals yet to accomplish, and I will transfer along with approxi­mately six others. Schools in­terested in picking up Notre Dame wrestlers are Northwestern, Michigan, Cornell, Wisconsin, Minnesota, 
U.N.C. Chapel Hill, Oklahoma, Oklahoma St., Illinois, and Oregon to name a few. Steve King, J.J. McGrew, and Jamey Downey have already been of­fered full scholarships at many of these schools. 
Lastly, I am disgusted with the unprofessional manner that this situation was handled. Another problem facing us is the fact that National Signing Day for wrestling was Wednesday April 15, the day when most high school seniors sign their letter of intent to which school they will attend. 
Dick Rosenthal gave abso­lutely no prior notification that the program was being dropped. In fact, on April 8, the team had its banquet and assis­tant athletic director O'Brien was present and handed out awards. He commended the coaches for a fine job and ex­tolled the wrestlers giving every indication that we would have a program next year. Less than 24 hours later, the program was dropped. 
McCann and Stewart desper­ately pleaded with the athletic director and were willing to make concessions, such as dropping scholarships, a de­crease in budget, a decrease in salary, or even phasing out the program. The athletic directors agreed to give it some thought; however, Fr.Beauchamp came back with a negative reply-the program would be totally dropped. 
Wrestling is sponsored by only 40 percent of the Division I schools in the country, and the number of institutions sponsoring wrestling has gone down in the last five years. The University of Notre Dame, one of the richest schools in the country, now joins these other schools who cannot keep wrestling because they "cannot afford it." 
But perhaps Arizona State and 1992 Olympic coach Bobby Douglas said. it best by stating, "The struggle is always to keep the spirit of wrestling alive, so dynamic, combative, disciplined people can find a safe haven. 
We can't compete with football or basketball in sponsorship money, but we do in the men we produce." Perhaps the University of Notre Dame has forgotten that their first job as an educational institution is to create great human beings and not bulging bank accounts. But I guess that's what happens when you hire a banker for an athletic director and not some­one experienced in these mat­ters. 
To conclude the meeting, Rick Stewart, asked his famous question for perhaps the last time, "Any questions?." There were none. Some people got up to leave, but many stayed to be close to their friends in such a time of intens-e grief. As our newly elected ,would be captain, J.J. McGrew, prepared to leave he said,"Don't forget where you came from." 
I don't think I will. I will re­member all the close friends I have made on my team and I will cherish my brief experience at the University of Notre Dame. 
Harris Brumer lives in Grace Hall and is a member of the 1991-92 wrestling team. 
• 
Thursday's Verse 
education is the manner of words, spoken; but when we talk lets us not talk but dialogue; but when we dialogue let us not dialogue but plan; but when we plan let us not plan but work; but when we work let us not work but reform; but when we reform let us not reform; but revolt. 
by Eric Bailey Off-campus 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAftAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
AAAAA 

Send your unpublished, poetic, point of view to: Thursday's Verse 
P.O. BoxQ Nf?,JN 46556 , , •. , , .: , .; . • . . . . . 
-
Send your cartoon to 
-
Viewpoint P.O. Box Q NO, IN, 46556 
.. t .... , ,.·. " ~ ...·.;. ........• ..... • .....• ,.· ... • .. . 
j 
Accent 

page 14 Thursday, April 23, 1992 
Aweeken or theatre 
ND/SMC community celebrates Shakespeare's birthday 
belief  that  performing  
Shakespeare is the best way  
to learn it, Rathburn was  
inspired to action by the  
visible commitment non­ 
theatre majors and theatre  
majors  in  the  ND/SMC  
community  have  been  
willing to dedicate to hard  
work and rehearsal time.  
Tonight~ Shakespearean  
celebration occurs during a  
massive  resurgence  of  
student-produced  
performance on campus.  
"Never in the past 20 years  
have there been so many  
student-run  theatre  
productions," said Hathburn.  
The  increase  in  the  
number  of  dramatic  
productions  meant  the  
scarcity of space available  
for performance.  "It's really  
tough  to  book  time  for  
theatres," said Sherwood.  
"Theatre is so active here ..  
there  are  not  many  
choices." Holding tonight's  
performance in the South  
Dining  Hall  marks  the  
beginning of what may be­ 
"Shakespeare's Greatest Hits" as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's version of this international celebration. Both hope this celebration will become an annual  · M" · . The Observer! Sean Farnan Jumor 1chelle R~ss1 and f~es~m:n Michael Kersey will bring alive "The Taming of the Shrew's" Kate and Petruch1o for tomght s Shakespeare's Greatest Hits" at South Dining Hall. Aided by Frederick scenes we have chosen will this particular event is Syburg, Professor Emeritus be ones p-eople will unique because it attracts in the College of Arts and recognize." non-theater majors to a  come a trendy location for drama "Everyone hears how great Shakespeare is," said Sherwood, "but not everyone takes the time to sit down and read it." For  
event.  Letters, as well as the Notre  theatrical calling. "There  students and faculty who  
•  The entertainment will feature a medley of 12 scenes from select plays, all related to the theme "Shakespeare's treatment of love." According to Rathburn, who teaches a Shakespeare course at Notre Dame, the scenes deal with "everything from heady infatuation to sentimental, silly love to very serious scenes about heartbreak and desertion."  Dame Student Activities office and costume designers at the Saint Mary's Communication and Theatre Department, Rathburn and Sherwood have formulated a show designed to entertain Shakespeare lovers and non­lovers alike . "Even if you are not familiar with Shakespeare," said Sherwood, the student producer of tonight's celebration, "most of the  From the 45 people who came to open auditions two months ago, Rathburn and Sherwood selected only 11, five women and six men, for the show. Their cast members-ranging from undergraduate first year students to graduate and law school students. and from a plethora of different majors-represent as varied a population as the scenes they will present. She commented on how  are all kinds of people who would love to do some acting ... but they aren't planning to be theatre majors," Rathburn noted. "This gives them a place to go." He and Sherwood agreed that "Shakespeare's Greatest Hits" is a perfect opportunity for people who acted in high school, or people who have never acted but have always wanted to exercise their dramatic talents. In addition to his personal  don't have the time to browse through Shakespeare on a regular basis, or have sworn off the genius playwright for fear of being baffled by esoteric lingo and impenetrable poetry, "Shakespeare's Greatest Hits" provides an outlet. For a mere $1 donation, viewers will glimpse scenes that, according to the producers. "go to the heart" of the plays they represent.  

"One o·c1ock From the House," a comic tale of family greed 
By BILL ALBERTINI (Jessica Raniszeski), the emo­cause the class wanted the 
Accent Writer tional one; Margaret (Kami chance to "involve as many ju­Benson), the family tightwad; niors as possible." said Miller. pregnant Maureen (Joanne This is the first year that a play 
-
Crazy. money-grubbing Wallace); and crazy Mavis is being put on by the junior daughters, dead fathers. insane (Tanya Braukman). Other class. They hope to establish it cousins. almondless almond characters include Miriam's as a yearly tradition. cakes, and shopping carts henpecked husband, Austin masquerading as dogs are (Tyler Moore), and two rather Though there is no charge for among the entertainment in odd cousins. The first is Tudor the play, there will be "One O'Clock From the House" (Chris Dellicarpini), who is "a donations accepted at the door this An Tostal weekend. little strange" according to di­for St. Hedwig's, a local 
rector Sonia Miller, and the establishment that tutors the 
This 1986 comedy by Frank other cousin is Mansel (Terry children of low-income Vickery takes place at the Walsh), who is convinced that families. St. Hedwig's is the reception following an elderly his shopping cart is a dog. junior class' adopted service -man's funeral. His four unique The play involves about project. daughters are all in twenty-five people including its The play will be performed in attendance, and bickering over entire cast and crew, all of the library auditorium on who will inherit the old man's whom are from the junior Friday and Saturday evening at The Observer/ Sean Farnan money and home. class. Miller chose "One 8:10pm, and Sunday afternoon Two students rehearse the first ever junior class play which 
The daughters are Miriam O'Clock from the House" be-at 2:10pm. 
will run throughout the weekend. 


Accent
Thursday, April 23 1992 page 15 


•
OVID 


esc ceremony to "send off" seniors planning afuture of volunteering 
BY JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Accent Editor 
Notre Dame s~niors are making difficult decisions. 
As graduation nears, many are realizing that jobs are hard to come by. But s~~>me seniors are using this time of uncertainty to look at other options beyond making money. · 
Whether they want to devote their lives to helping others, or if they just want to take a year to do something a little different, many ND seniors have decided to spend next year doing vplunteer work. 

Approximate~y eight to ten percent of seniors are volun­teering their s~rvices in some capacity next year, according to Mary Ann Roemer, coordinator of senior/alumni ~rograms at the Center for Social toncerns (CSC). 
Students' volunteer work will vary, depending on where they work and what is needed. Many will work with drug and alcohol abuse victims, abused children, AIDS victims, as ,well as teaching in inner-city schools and Indian reservations, said, Roemer. 
Senior Jill Milleir will spend next year volunteering for the Jesuit Volunteer Corps in the southwest region, either in California or Arizona. 

She is not sm1e what kind of work she'll be l:l.oing until she receives a placement list to apply for specific jobs. 
"They offer a whole range of social services,j' said Miller, a psychology major from St. Charles, Ill. 
For her work, she will receive free room, board and medical insurance as w1ell as $75 per month. 

As an undergraduate at Notre Dame, Miller has been very involved in volunteer work through the esc. participating in a summer service project, Community of Caring, and the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program. 
Miller said she wants to pursue social justice as a career. 

"Through my four years at Notre Dame, I was very involved in the esc." she said. "As a result of my experiences, I knew that it (service) was what I wanted to devote my life to," she said. 

Entering the business world was never an option for Miller, who plans to attend graduate school or do more volunteer work internationally after her year with the Jesuit Volunteer Corps. 
"This is all I wanted to do," she said. 
Miller thinks that she will gain much from her experiences next year. 
"Through doing something like this I tend to get more from the people I work with than they get from me," she said. "It's a major life learning experience. Since it's a Catholic organization, I hope it'll strengthen my faith," 
Eric Christiansen, a senior theology major from Anaheim, Calif., will volunteer next year in the Holy Cross Associates domestic program. 
Like Miller, Christiansen does not yet know where he will be working or what he will be doing in the program, which has six different location options. 
After filling out a job listings sheet, Holy Cross Associates will try to place Christiansen in a job which is of interest to him. 
"The variety (of job possibilities) is incredible," he said. 
Depending on his job, Christiansen will receive a pay­check which will be pooled to­gether with funds from the other volunteers he will be living with to pay all community expenses, contribute back to the program, and give each volunteer a small stipend. 
"It's a communal use of the money,"' he explained. 
Turning down both job offers and graduate school, Christiansen chose to pursue volunteer work next year because there is nothing to tie him down right now. 
"I'm probably freer (now) than I'm ever going to be," he said. 
In the future, Christiansen wants to teach theology at the college level. 
"I wanted to get dirt under my fingernails," he said, citing volunteering as a good way to gain this experience. 
Christiansen said he hopes that his year of service will be "a time to put the last four years in perspective. I'm hoping to per­ceive things more realistically (after volunteering). It's a tremendous opportunity for personal growth," he said. 

The CSC and the University support students' decisions to volunteer, and three years ago .., began the annual Senior Volunteer Send-Off. 
The Send-Off is a way for students, their families, faculty, staff, and administrators to come together to support students' decisions to participate in volunteer work. 
Last year, approximately 135 seniors and their families par­ticipated in the Send-Off. Roemer, who organized the event, hopes for a strong turn-out this year, as well. 
The ceremony, which will take place during commencement weekend, will be about an hour long, and will include a slide show presentation on service at Notre Dame, a speech from an ND alumnus who has spent time doing volunteer work, and a candle­lighting service. 
University president Father Edward Malloy will also partic­ipate in the ceremony. 
Miller, an organizer of this year's Send-Off. thinks that the ceremony is especially important for parents. "There are a lot of parents who are concerned and think that their student is the only one. The Send-Off is reassuring," she said. 
"It's important for people to get together and see that other people are doing it, too," Miller added. 
The Send-Off "gives students a sense of mission," said Christiansen, also an organizer of the ceremony. "There's a commissioning. We're being called together." 
Prospective volunteers in all programs, not only those arranged through the esc. are encouraged to sign up at the esc to participate in the send-off, said Roemer. 
Invitations to the ceremony will be sent to families of those students that sign up. 
This year's Senior Volunteer Send-Off will be Saturday, May 16 at 10:30 a.m. in Washington Hall, followed by a reception at Theodore's. 
Student art on display at the Snite 
By ANGELA FARAH 
Accent writer 
From Fine Arts majors to Business and Engineering majors,, the artwork of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be displayed at the official opening of the student art ex­hibit on Sunday. April ?6 from 1-4 
p.m. at the Snite Museum. Admission is free and the exhibit will be featured through May 18. 
There were no prerequisites to enter a piece in the show except the talent necessary to compete at the high level of performance expected by the judges, according to the Director of the Snite Museum, Dean Porter. 
"This is a general student show which includes a BFA (Bachelor of Fine Arts) show, an MFA (Master of Fine Arts) show, and also a diverse showing of talented students from various other majors," explains Porter. "This is a chance for the students to expose their work in a simulated professional atmosphere," says Porter. 
Julie Tourtillotte, Assistant Professor of Art at Saint Mary's College, will judge the student exhibi­tion. Some of the criteria used as a basis for judging is originality, quality, and presentation. 
The exhibit will be judged in the same format that it would be in a real gallery setting. Many of the procedures of entering the different pieces in the show as well as their actual presentation during the show will mirror that of a professional gallery opening. 
The coordinators of the exhibit are Michael Baechler, a graduate student in the Education Qepartment at the Snite, and Professor Jean Dibble, Assistant Professor of Art. 
The show carries on a tradition that dates back to the 1950s and will continue to go on as long as there are students interested in participating and displaying their talent. 
There will be anywhere from 150 to 200 works including realistic paintings, abstract sculpting, pottery, textiles, metal sculpture, sketching, and more. 

In the previous years there have been four to five hundred spectators over the duration of the exhibit. This year there are even higher expectations as there is more space to show more art and the quality of the work has increased over the years. 
This Sunday there will be prizes awarded for the top artists after the grand opening reception. "It's an exciting moment for the students," says Porter. It will also prove to be a worthwhile trip to the Suite for anyone who decides to pay a visit. 
t ., page 16 The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1992 
Maas' single propels surprising Yanks past White Sox 
CHICAGO (AP) -The New York Yankees took another step in the right direction Wednesday night, even if Roberto Kelly did not.  
Kevin Maas singled home the go-ahead run in the ninth in­ning and the Yankees overcame  
U> hi<  

a baserunning mistake to beat the Chicago White Sox 4-3. 
Roberto Kelly singled with one out in the ninth for his fourth straight hit and Mel Hall followed with a long drive over center fielder Lance Johnson's head. But Kelly over ran second base, had to go back and re­touch the bag, and made it only to third. 
"I was not looking at the ball," Kelly said. "I did not realize I close I was to the bag. I must have missed it by two feet, so I had to go back. I wanted to make sure I touched the bag, so I went back to tag the base. I would have scored." 

Maas, however, made up for Kelly's mis-step, with a single on a two-strike pitch from Scott Radinsky (0-1). The only thing lost was a potential RBI for Hall, which would've given him 18 this season and a tie for the major league lead with Cecil Fielder. 
"There is no doubt Roberto could have scored," Hall said. "But, he owes me one and I'm going to remind him very soon." 
Steve Howe (2-0) pitched 1 1­3 perfect innings. He has not allowed a run in five relief ap­pearances. 
I 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classrtieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -A riverfront sharp home and PIRATES VS CUBS Moving to Washington D.C.? 2 s E N 0 A s Pandora's Books fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month. Free apartment for rent weekends or 4 TICKETS FOR SALE FOR Demers ('90 and '91) looking for corner of ND ave & Howard transportation! Room & Board! short terms. 219-257-9101/219-SATURDAY(4/25). third roommate. May-Aug. E reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday Over 8,000 openings. No 291-6100. 1ST BASE LINE. Townhouse in Alexandria. Safe. 
experience necessary. Male or BEST OFFER! Close to metro ride to Capital Hill in N "NEW JOB LISTING" SUMMER TOURS TO EUROPE, Female. For employment program Attention bisexual women CALL: 234-4715 am $290/mo. 703-836-4193. HANDOUTS AVAILABLE AUSTRALIA AND THE GREEK call Student Employment Services (and other interested parties): IN CAREER & PLACEMENT ISLANDS. 15-19 days. All at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597. Turtle Creek sublet available. Call COME SEE THE JUNIOR CLASS SERVICES expenses paid including meals. Rian@ X1209 for details. PERSONAL PLAY ONE O'CLOCK FROM THE 0 $1395 -$1798. Call Contiki Tours SALES PERSON WANTED FOR HOUSE!!! Fri., Apri124 & Sat., April NOW 1-800-950-1037 FOOD VENDING CART ON THE Kicked off campus? Sexually PORT-A-PIT CHICKEN & RIBS 25 at 8:10P.M. & Sun., April26 at A ext. #2. WEEKENDS. LOCATION WILL BE harrassed by your roommate for the Saturday, April 25, {Blue-Gold 2:10P.M. Hesburgh Lib. Aud. UPDATED WEEKLY 
ON THE EAST RACE. GREAT 1992-93 school year? Three Game Day), at St. Joseph's High -Donations to St. Hedwig's s 2nd Annual Engagement Party!! SUMMER INCOME. MUST BE {adjective) guys are looking for a School. welcome! Your Hostesses ... CHUD, OUTGOING. CALL RICK AT 288-Turtle Creek roommate. Call Chris Help the parents keep the kids J u N 0 A s CATHETER, BELL, 1454, WEEKDAYS. 273-0900 @ X1088 if you need us as much as safe after the prom. Proceeds go to To all members of HAO, LULAC, SWIMASAURAUS, DUSTY, SILLY NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS. we need you. We've been Phi/led! support the LDZ, and Ballet Folklorico, there will u JILLY, & EXPRESS MYSELF Jr/Sr Post-Prom Party. be a general meeting at 7:00 pm on SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF MICHELLE. Smokes provided, Advance ticket prices for Port-A-Pit Thursday, April 23 in the N RESUME AND DISK TO bring your own are $3.50/chicken, and $4/ribs. Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. CAREER & PLACEMENT 
1.....-F_O_R_R_EN_T____.I I FOR SALE 
"RAINCOATS'!!! Call 272-3753 and leave message. The meeting will be held to meet SERVICES FOR RESUME Vic and Mitch we long for you! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Tickets can be delivered directly to students coming for minority BOOKS NOW! 
219-291-7153.. Good rates. Save Money. Call me you on campus. recruitment weekend and for 0 TYPING AVAILABLE for a quote 9:30-6:00, general information. DEADLINE BEFORE YOU 287-4082. 2 Bedroom 289-1993. Office near campus. Help Me, Please A LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
Walk to Campus To all ND/SMC students, Typing $390 Month STUDENTS AND PARENTS! SAVE I need graduation tickets if anyone Don't miss the opportunity to help s Pickup & Delivery 232 3616 on those housing costs. Buy this has some they are not going to use. out Passagon. We are starting an 277-7406 Oakhill Condo, walk to classes. Call Quinn at x2059 if you have any end-of-the-year materials drive to THE SURREAL MCCOYS: 
New condo available mid-May Get a break on your taxes, and a info. collect pens, pencils, and paper for 5 really cool guys who aren't afraid JUNIOR CLASS BASH!!!! thru mid-August. COMPLETELY return on your investment after a school in Africa. to dress like hicks. Come out to Holy Cross Field furnished, incl-graduation. Call Janet Knapp at please, help me Come to an informational meeting this Saturday PM (9-12) for uding linen. towels, and dishes. 2 RE/MAX 100 realty for more at 8:00pm tonight in the ISO This Friday at Club 23 bands by the lake with food, friends bedrooms, 2 baths. information. 219-255-5858 or 219-LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO Lounge in LaFortune if you're and fun!!! It's all free!! Walking distance to ND campus. 277-7402. PHILADELPHIA. $128.00 ROUND interested. All are welcome. Kristin is beautiful and 
Call Kathleen -277-TRIP. RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-Colleen is hot. 1709. ATIENTION: COUCH &MATCHING 6541. U P S on CAMPUS Hi Karen. 
LOST/FOUND 

LOVESEAT, & RECLINER 4 SALE­
OAKHILL CONDO FOR RENT NEW, MUST SEE-$150 271-9165 LET'S GO GREYHOUND TO NEW We don't miss a day! Ship Thank you. Found-blue coat with keys SPACIOUS 2 BDRM, 28TH, WID, YORK CITY. $116.00 ROUND TRIP. your stuff home now and by bookstore basketball GARAGE, WALKING DIST. TO NO AIR TIC (MALE), SB-SAN DIEGO, RESTRICTIONS APPLY. 287-6541. relax during Finals Week. JASMINE GROOVE courts-call x3039 CAMPUS, NICE POOL. CALL SUN, 5/10. CHEAP. 277-5891. @THE CAP 'N CORK 
CAROLINE OR BILL AT 317-875-Does anyone have extra M-F 12-5 Sat. 11-2 Fri. and Sat., April 24 & 25 Found:tan J. Crew jacket Campus 8890. NIKON N -2000 CAMERA WITH 50 tickets for graduation ? ? Music starts at 10 PM View 277-7179 .. MM 1.8 LENS AND 35-70 MM 200M Please call Cris @ X4907 239-6714 Corner of Lasalle and Niles! 
SUMMER SUBLET LENS AND 636 AF VIVITAR FLASH. at LOST: Gold Claddagh ring with NEW CONDITION. $450.00 272-Meg, THE COUNTRY HARVESTER Anyone need a ride to Long diamond in middle. If found, TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE 4375 EVENINGS. • FRIENDS FOREVER" lower level Lafortune Island/New York on Tues. or Wed. please call Susie at x2068. FOR RENT OVER SUMMER. TWO AND of Senior Week? 
BEDROOMS, ONE AND ONE HALF 'LOVE YOU ALWAYS!' Call x4054 
FOUND: BATHS, FENCED IN PATIO, LARGE DOUBLE LOFT Love, 2nd Annual Engagement Party!! Bead necklace w/ crucifix by Knott LIVING AREA, WALKING Land M Cum Find out who it'll be this year! NEED: ld. or rhyth. GUITARIST White long sleeve NO shirt @ ACC DISTANCE TO CAMPUS. for sale Ring Dance will be done. No girls summer &/or next year for the (in the Pit) CALL ERIC X1392 call Monica x3765 desperate for a "ring by spring" Metha-tones. Call x3472 and leave message CALL BRYAN or BRENNAN WHOOPS! Is "Our Baby" growing in invited. 209 CT. of Royal Arms. ca/1271-0742 or 288-4859 
X1376 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED your tummy by accident? Loving Castle PT. Thurs. 6pm. Thurs. April Lost: EUDORA email disk, call CALL KEN X1385 doctor and his stay at home wife 23rd. SHAGGY/ HOBBES. David, x2385 89 MERCEDES ........ $200 would like to discuss Baby's future 
Spacious 4-5 bedroom home near 86 vw.. .............$ 50 with you. Please call us collect For sale: Pair of 100 watt Sony Worship me forever. Lost: black fold-up umbrella, Lafayette Square -Recently 87 MERCEDES ........ $100 anytime. {219) 462-5250. Debra speakers. plain wooden handle, remodeled -New carpeting -2 car 65 MUSTANG .......... $ 50 and Michael. Call x1563 Olive Oyl told me to do it.:) automatic mechanism. If ·garage. $600.00 per month. Call found. please contact Suzanne 277-4583 after 4:00p.m. Choose from thousands starting SENIORS hey nil 'Attention NDCIBD MEMBERS' at 271-0657. $25. Don't forget to come to the Summer 
MOVING TO CHICAGO?? FREE 24-Hour Recording Reveals E Send-Off tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the ND'91Graduate looking for female Giveaway Prices. STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA ND Room of LaFortune. Be there!
WANTED 

non-smoker roommate. If 801-379-2929 N "NEW JOB LISTING" Info on semester, year, graduate, 
interested, call Cynthia and leave a Copyright #IN11 KJC. HANDOUTS AVAILABLE IN summer and internship programs in Even though MR. BUSH is speaking message (708) 616-7818. CAREER AND PLACEMENT Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and ELAN ELAN ELAN E at graduation, my aunt still wants to 88 Mazda 323, 4spd, AC, EC, 22K SERVICES. Melbourne. Programs start at L L come. Please help her out;Sell me a Summer Sublet mi! Hundreds below blue book! Jim 0 $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. A will be performing A graduation ticket. Call x4233 Furnished 2 Bedroom W239-6064/H273-9059 NOW N Friday, April 24 N 
272-9817 A to the athletic dept.: Moreau Little Theatre 
ALASKA JOBS your time is gonna come E 8:00PM E MOVING TO LA? $1000+/wk, room, board, airfare. S UPDATED WEEKLY -led zeppelin L Tuesday, April 28 L I'm looking for roommates to live Share 2Br house with M Grad Now hiring. (503) 754-6051 ext. 8. A Washington Hall A near Manhattan Beach after Student. Laundry, Garage, Garden, Alicia ... N 8:00PM N graduation. Porch, Air Cond. Avail May 1. $260 CD PLAYER w/remote, exc. Heading for EUROPE this summer? Admission $2 at the door CALL JULIE x1342 plus phone. 288-3878. condition x2385 Jet there anytime for $169 from the ELAN ELAN ELAN 
WANTED: A rational explanation for East Coast, $229 from the Midwest 
WANTED -SWIMWEAR MODEL ATIRACTIVE STUDIO'S IN LOVELY '79 Toyota Corolla ... Good the termination of the ND wrestling (when available) with AIRHITCH! FREE MAUl TRIP, FOR TEST SHOT, OLD VICTORIAN BLDG. NEAR Condition ... 72,000 miles ... program. Must be logical, coherent, (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.) HEY, braless ... INTERVIEW CALL HOLIDAY INN, N.D. 225-300/MO. CALL 2879634 $500 or best offer TRUE and must not make the For details: did you make your eleven? 272-6600 11122 FOR SUMMER AND FALL Call x3816 for more info university look like a bunch of AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000. (We always win!) MR GRANDIN, TH 2-9, F 8-10 RENTALS. money-hungry idiots. If you can 
help us out, call Athletic Czar DICK 2 Bdrms. NOW; 3 available in June, Rosenthal at his toll-free number 1-ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS 
TICKETS 
Summer Roommate needed summer school. $200/mo. Use of all 800-GET-CLUE. A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS Turtle Creek apartment facilities. Close to campus. safe Need 1 GRAD tix P.S. What team is next on the list? A BABY! Young financially secure Call x2891 neighborhood. 232-2794. pleeease!! Carrie x3484 Catholic couple looking to adopt 
ST. EDWARD'S

4th FLOOR KEITH ANDERSON and provide a loving home to an 
-=-· ...,...
~­

THE ASSOCIATES FALL SUBLET Modern 2bedrm apt Extended Catholic family You'd better hide the pellet gun ...or infant. All Expenses paid. Please TEMPORARY POSITION: 2.5 mi from Dome. Fully furnished, from NJ. Need as many GRAD we'll shove it up your ass!! call collect (317) 364-0300 for more fireplace,microwave.stereo. TIX as humanly possible. information. MARKETING RESEARCH ANALYST Partyrm, pool, tennis court. Avail Call Teresa x2899 to haggle ANTOSTAL THURSDAY QFTC 
RAGHIB "ROCKET" 

-Proficient in Paradox, Lotus and 8/20-12/20 NO DEPOSIT $605/Mo Events at Saint Mary's: 
ISMAIL

MultiMate. Responsible for 277-8914 FOR SALE:One-way plane ticket to 4:30pm Pasta Eating (Library) ADOPTION developing and analyzing statistical San Jose,CA for May 9th-CHEAP!!­5:30 pm Bike Race (Angela) Childless, Christian, Couple wishes reports. Staying for Summer? Looking for call Samx4863 7:45 pm Mr. Campus (Angela) to adopt. Legal and medical paid. Please call (219) 271-6342 to Turtle Creek roommate -Marcie Friday: Mattress drag and Tricycle Call Bill and Kathy, Collect, at 219­schedule an interview. 271-8571 FOR SALE: chp. 1 way tick. SB race 322-8187. 
to Los Angeles. Monday, 5/18. 
.U't.AkS UN 

SIX EFFICIENCY APTS. IN BLDG. Jimx1558. Ride needed to IU and back Fri 
"MY LIFE SINCE 

WANTED: A cabinet w/doors that NEAR N.D. WILL RENT April 24-Sun April 26. Call GRADUATION TICKETS: 
I LEFT NOTRE lli\1\IE"

could pass as a liquor cabinet. INDIVIDUALLY OR 30R MORE AT Need 1or2 grad tix. Let's make a x3747 Needed by thurs. aft. for play!!! call A DISCOUNTED RATE deal. Ron 3315, leave message. If you have any extra, PLEASE call 
Monduy, April 27 

-x3040(mach). Will be locked up CALL2879624 KATELYN: Kristie, 112535. 
7:flfii'.M. each night AN OLDER GRADUATING DAD The "almost" Big 8-Day is 
"Our Old House· NEEDS 2 GRADIATION TICKETS approaching... Be prepared! lam a worm, slowly and surely Female roommate needed for Michigan Bed and Breakfast. 35 FOR HIS KIDS. CALL JEFF AT 272 sinking deeper into the bowels of Williamsburg Apt. June 1st Mins. from Campus. (616) 9602 The Lizard King lives on! Down with the earth, putting more desolation $234.50. Call 258-5702 435-5365. AFTER 8:00pm the Crustaceans! between me and the universe 
page 1 7 The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1992 

IRISH BASEBALL 
NOTRE DAME SOFTBALL STATISTICS:
NOTRE DAME BASEBALL STATISTICS: 
Player BA GIGS AB R H RBI 2B 3B HR SB
~ 
..-..­
,

AMY REUTER .500 3010 4 8 2 0 0 0 2
Player BA GIGS AB R H RBI 2B 3B HR SB 
.... 
,, ,
~,...., 

SARA HAYES .323 42142 133 13 43 21 4 0
ERIC DANAPILIS .352 33133 105 24 37 31 6 3 5 5 
~---­
,

' 
RUTHKMAK .296 42142 98 13 29 10 4 0 0
CRAIG COUNSELL .328 33133 119 30 39 22 12 1 3 2 

g g g

EDWIN HARTWELL .318 1318 22 5 7 3 0 0 0 3 
MELISSA COOK .Z&!i 1112 l~ 2 ~ ~ l
' Midwestern Collegiate Conference
, 
,

CORYMEE .276 33133 116 17 32 22 5 0 3 LISA MILLER .275 35127 51 9 14 2 0 0 4
' 
ANDREA KEYS .265 2116 34 6 9 3 2 0 0 1
JCE Blt:jll:IEWJ~Z .2li3 ;wg ll~ 2Q 3Q 1!2 5 Q 5 Q 
BASEBALL STANDINGS: 
,
, 

SHERRI QUINN .258 29120 62 6 16 6 2 0 0PAUL FAILLA .260 321130 104 17 27 12 5 4 4 
' MCC OVERALL
, ,

BOB LISANTI .258 27123 66 8 17 8 2 0 
61/,Y. FOLSOM .Z52 31131 l!lZ z z:z ~ l g 0 0
W-4... W-L 
,

GREG LAYSON .256 29125 86 21 22 6 4 0 0 8 CHRISTY CONNOYER .233 42142 120 9 28 9 6 1 0 
,

NOTRE DAME 8-0 23-10
~ 
PAT LEAHY 250 l4/l2 M 3 ll 7 3 l 2 0 
LIZ GOETZ .231 711 13 0 3 2 0 0 0
,
, 

DAYTON 4-4 15-20 
CARRIE MILLER .212 35135 99 8 21 6 0 0 1MATIHAAS .241 1919 29 5 7 4 0 0 0 
,
, 

~ EVANSVILLE 4-5 16-21 
RONNY ALVAREZ .200 39139 105 6 21 0 0 0 2 STEVE VERDUZCO .231 27118 65 7 15 5 2 0 0 9 
ROBBYBIRK .231 1619 26 8 6 2 0 0 3 
DETROIT MERCY 3-4 10-17 
SIEPI:!AiliiE Plt:jiEB .zgg ~ l:ll l!l 2e a 2 g 2 0 
, ,

M ICJHELLE CLINE .200 2410 5 8 0 0 0 0OMj BALITD-1 22Q 2311!1 50 ll ll 6 Q Q Q 2 
XAVIER 4-6 14-28 
, ,

DEBBIE BOULAC .167 40140 108 2 18 0 0 0CRAIG DESESNIS .175 21111 40 4 7 4 0 0 0 0 
BUTLER 6-10 12-25 
, ,
CASEY MCMURRAY .133 22111 45 6 2 2 0 0
ADAM MAISANO .143 14/2 14 0 2 2 0 0 0 0
,

MIKE ROONEY .111 1911 9 3 0 0 0 0 0 
t:mBEDAME Z3& ~ 112& Z!ill IIQ 31 31 6 6 15
SOFTBALL STANDINGS:
,

JOHN RUSHIN .000 Ml 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OPPONENTS .201 42142 1087 92 218 73 27 14 5 21
, 
MCC OVERALL

ROB NATICCHIA .000 310 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
, 
p
W-4... W-L

ALAN WALANIA .000 110 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 
PITCHER ERA GIGS W-l ICG H R ER BB so WIBEDAME Z!ill a:m loll liH Z:Zl 156 ~ Hl l!l 3& 
NOTRE DAME 3-1 23-19 
STACI ALFORD 1.45 21111 8-5 8 105.3 75 26 17 12 77 OPPONENTS .234 33133 1036 137 242 125 46 6 18 38 
CARRIE MILLER ?.08 15115 7-6 9 86.3 60 25 20 21 27
' BUTLER 4-2 9-18
' 
MELISSA LINN 2.15 20/16 8-8 10 100.3 75 33 22 24 48
DETROIT MERCY 5-3 17-4
, 
AMIEETERRY 17.18 110 0-0 0 3.7 8 8 7 2 2
PITCHER ERA GIGS W-L ICG p H R ER BB so 
LOYOLA 3-3 13-19
, 

,
ERIC DANAPILIS 0.00 110 I 0-0 0 2.0 0 0 2 2 
t:mBEDAME 2!lZ ~~ 23-l!l z:z 2l!H 21& B2 6& 5& lM 
, 
EVANSVILLE 3-5 12-28
,

MARTY DEGRAFF 0.00 110 0-0 0 1.0 3 3 0 0 OPPONENTS 2.23 42142 19-23 33 295.0 268 108 73 69 94
, 
DAYTON 0-4 9-21
CHRIS MICHALAK 1.90 1MI 6-2 4 66.3 46 21 14 17 35 ALAN WALANIA 2.52 ~ 4-3 4 50.0 47 19 14 8 40 PAT LEAHY 3.10 S/9 5-3 3 52.3 41 25 18 17 46 OOIOSI~~ES :HZ ~! 5::] l 3fi3 2~ l~ H 19 32 
BOOKSTORE BASK TBALL f.'
, ,,
TOM PRICE 4.73 S/4 2-1 26.7 27 17 14 16 TIM KRAUS 5.84 610 0-0 0 12.3 15 13 8 6 2 CRAIG ALLEN 6.29 Sl2 1-0 0 24.3 37 23 17 13 12 DAN ADAMA 9.00 110 ' 0-0 0 2.0 2 2 5 2
, 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXI 
Sweet 16 

OPPONENT 5.1Q 3.'l/~~ 10-23 4 263.7 271 184 152 166 204 

1 Tequila White Lightning XI 2 Just Chillin' 
4:45PM, Boo)<store 10, Thursday 
IS Salubrious & Callipigous

Having a ball...wish you were here! 
Bookstore 10, Friday 

''OUTRAGEOUS! 
.--------7 McCormick's 
One of the best films I've seen this year!" 
4:45PM, Bookstore 9, Thursday -Joel 81_., Good MomlngAmeriea 
_________JQ L Train
9 Frank Drebbin and the 'Cocks 
5 Bridget's------------. 
,----6 Ebony Side of the Dome 
6: 15 PM, Bookstore 9, Thursday 
12 All the President's Men-----' 
4:30PM, Bookstore 

4 Malicious Prosecution------, 
6:15PM, Bookstore 10, Thursday 13 Pale Riders _________. 
.__ 
Cinema at the Snlte 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 7:30, 9:45 
WOMENS RESULTS 119 Rattle & Hummua del. ,,3 From Bookatore to Barcelona, 24· 1 2 1138 Look But Don't Touch del. •so E2CU2NV, 21-9 1160 CJ'e Pub del. •7o The Feb Five, 21-13 1163 Ring My Belle del. •15 De Bellea, 21-5 1M3 Plge del. •14 Montezume"e Revenge, 22-20
Graduate into 
1169 Smooth, Swift, Sweaty del. 1166 Ring My Belle II, 21·14 118 Schwlngll del. lM8 We Be Slrokln, 21-14 
•12 Exeq~ Me del. 1147 We Love To Be Seeded On Top, 21·11
your own 
PASSAGES TO INDIA EBQM NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO 88.1
car. 
WYf.E. 
*A state of the art sound tapestry hosted by Julian Crandall Hollick. *A ten-part series of stories, poems, interviews, commentary, music, and sounds. 
*Each an hour long -Saturdays at a:oo pm. April 18: A Kaleldpsoope pf Cylrures-language, race, religion, geography 
Sped4t ieatel 9cvr-a.LUHLted 7U~te ()H4/ 
8.65%:PR 
April 25: The Presence ot the Past-Ute In India and notions of time May 2: Pyla· Darsan Dena Dacspn lena-Hinduism
Maximum Term-60 months 
May 1: Bhyanl and Plum PUdding-Muslim and British impact on India May 16: Vedas Ragas and Stprvtel!ers-oral tradition In classical, folk, and popular culrures
We'll even give you deferred payments 
May 23: In Search of Fllmwallahs-Indian cinema
unti1August15, 1992 
May 30: Praneschacharya's Dilemma-modemlzatlon of Indian Society (please bring an offer letter from your future employer 
June 13: Slta SoeaJs-role of women In India and your acceptance letter). 
June 20: Swadeshl· The OJest for Self-Reliance-policy of economic self-reliance and political non-alignment June 27: Bam Balya· In SearciJ pf Indian Democracy-Indian economy and present
To help with your relocation, we also have: 
democratic lnstirutlons 
MasterCard 
Partially Underwritten By:
14.. 92%* APR $1 0 annual fee 
* Rates subject to change without notice. Members must meet qualifications. 
OPEN Tua. -Scat. 
0 
5:00,.. The MALAB:A 
txc&entNOTRE DAME 1ndtan Culslne 
RESER9.Al'lONS DtSUliD

FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
I'lOt SOUTKIEND :AVE. (E!nSOfhllllU.S. ZX)

(219) 239-6611 
(211) 271-0115 Independent of the University 
r----------­
page 18 The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1992 
Hapless Sixers may face future without Barkley 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) Charles Barkley figures the best way he can help the Philadelphia 76ers win an NBA championship is to play els-e­where. 
He's been ready to leave be­fore, and he's ready again. 
"If we're not one or two in the draft lottery, I'd trade me," he said. "That's the only way to build for the future." 
The 76ers finished 35-47 and out of the playoff hunt this sea­son, and Barkley sees their chances for the future resting heavily on the May 17 draft lot­tery. The club has three of 66 chances in the lottery. 
"If we don't get one of the top three picks, we would be a middle-of-the-road team," Barkley said Tuesday after a radio talk show. "If we don't get one of the top three picks, it would be better just to rebuild." 
Barkley would prefer to win a championship in Philadelphia. If he's to be traded, he has preferences: Phoenix, Portland, Los Angeles Lakers, Los Angeles Clippers or Seattle. 

"I could win a championship in any of those places," Barkley said. 
Barkley, during the two-hour talk show, said the 76ers shut the door on a trade in January that would have sent him to the Lakers for James Worthy and Elden Campbell. The club has denied such a trade was in the works. 
"I really wanted the Sixers to take that deal," Barkley said. "My bags were packed." 
Barkley created a stir recently when, in response to unattributed published remarks about him that he believed were made by general manager Gene Shue, he called Shue a "clown" and a "caddy" for club owner Harold Katz. Shue has not re­sponded. 
Barkley said Thesday that the 76ers organization is a "bad environment." 
"There's all kind of mind games and everybody wonder­ing who's in control and who's saying what," he said. 
He charged some of his teammates were not committed to winning. 

"All they want to do is make should not be blamed for the that team win," Barkely said. "I money," he said. team's dismal season. don't want to play for anybody Barkley said coach Jim Lynam "Knute Rockne couldn't make but Jimmy. 
Pacers chances slim against hot Celts 
BOSTON (AP) -One year ago, the Boston Celtics and 
Indiana  Pacers  met  in  the  
opening  round  of the  NBA  
playoffs.  

With Larry Bird and Kevin McHale fighting ofT injuries and headed for surgery, the Celtics survived. Boston won three of five games in claiming its 31st first-round series since capturing the first of 16 NBA titles in 1957. 
The Pacers went home early once again. They have not advanced beyond the first round in the team's 16 years in the league. 
Now the Celtics and the Pacers start over again Thursday, once again meeting at Boston Garden in the opening game of a best-of-5 showdown. 
McHale is healthy again after left ankle surgery last July and, more recently, a torn calf muscle, which sidelined him for 15 games from Jan. 6 to Feb. 5. 
But Bird still is plagued by back problems. He returned from disc surgery last June 7, but missed all of January and February with an inflamed nerve in his back. Then he was sidelined by spasms for the last eight games of the regular season. 

Although he did some shooting this week, Bird still is listed as day-to-day by the Celtics. After. practice Wednesday, the club said a decision will be made on his first-game status after an early workout. Point guard Dee Brown definitely is out after missing five games with a virus that left him with sinusitis and vertigo. 
The last time Bird and Brown were in the lineup together, the Celtics had a seven-game winning streak. Then, trailing New York by five games with eight to play, Boston rolled off eight consecutive victories, tying the Knicks with a 51-31 record and winning the Atlantic Division title for the 14th time since league realignment in 1971. 
"Last year we beat them with one guy going on one foot and another guy with half a back," McHale said. ''I'm sure there will be a lot of yapping, but when the game starts everyone 



ALOMNI SENIOR CLOB'S 
FRIDAY LUNCH 
Ill ALUMNI 

·. :·:·:·:·:·:···:~·:-:·:·:·:·:·.·:·=~·:·::·: .·::···:··:··-:::·: .,·:·:·:­
~CLUB
Lab Theatre Washington Hall 

. ·h·•·· .. ...•..
ReIattons tps: sometitn¢§ ¥9Y. need to give him an ultim~tutn. 
Every Friday 12-2 
ID required 
Thursday, April 23, 1992 
Detroit tops Minnesota 5-4 in overtime thriller 

BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP)­Yves Racine scored. He saved a season that looked lost only a few minutes earlier. Yet he didn't know what to do. · 
Do I jump up and down? Do I drop down to my knees in prayer? Do I take a spin an11und the ice? He didn't know. 
Finally, his teammates showed him how to celeb!rate his unassisted goal 1:15 ;into overtime that lifted Detroit ; to a S-4 victory over the Minn(jSOta North Stars on Wednesday night and gave the Red Wings hope for the rest of their first-round playoff series. 
"My last goal was four mqnths ago. I didn't know what to do," Racine said. "I just stood there. Then the guys came at me I and scared me a little." 
They piled on him just !sec­onds after he made sure that the North Stars wouldn't!pile three consecutive playoff losses on the Red Wings. 
Detroit, which lost the first two games of the best-of-7 series at home, can pull even by winning Game 4 Friday night at Met Center. The victory was crucial; only two teams have rebounded from three-game deficits. 
"The momentum changed tonight," said Vince Riendeau, who relieved goalie Tim Cheveldae at 8:04 of the second period after Minnesota had taken a 4-2 lead and stopped the 11 shots he faced. "We're ready to take it to them Friday." 
Ray Sheppard's power-play goal with 3:32 left in regulation sent the game into overtime for the Red Wings, who fmally beat a Minnesota team that finished 28 points: behind them in the regular-season standings. 
Je1ts 4, Canucks 2 
The Winnipeg Jets built a four-goal lead and threw a 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
However, Fulton still saw room for improvement. 
"We have to box out better," he said, "and we can't mi~s as many opportunities." 
After Just Chillin' played, it was time for Tequila to take the court. They were able to take the game, defeating NO's Most Wanted, 21-12. Tequila was led by Brian Ratigan (6 pts), who was supported by five from Matt Casey and four from Shannon Cullinan. Eric Jones and Michael MacKinnon added two apiece for the number-one seeded Tequila. 
"We have an advantage with "I don't know if there are two better big men (Jones and Rati­gan) on campus. They were tough inside and I think the other team had trouble with them." 
Earlier in the day, Malicious was able to defeat Low Density Wolf Bait by the score of 21-14. Malicious was led by the Curoe brothers, Andy and Matt. Andy led with eight points while his little brother Matt chipped in five. Rich Howling scored six while Mickey Carter and Tom Gorman added one apiece. 
"I am pretty happy with our play so far," commented Andy Curoe. "It's the first time I have played with my brother. We (Malicious) have three return­ing players from last year, so right now we are working on offense." 

our size inside," said Cullinan. The third-seeded Gauchos Bad and the Laundry 21-19, 
lr-•••1!•••••••••••••••••••-... while Ebony Side of the Dome
squashed Tommy's Tavern 21­

The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious 
combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions 
of cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This 
makes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
GREAT FOR GRADUATION PARTIES 
For more infonnation, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SA 23 & lronwood/277-7744 

US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277·1024 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 
were able to pull out a 21-19 win over White Men Can't Jump. The Gauchos were again led by Rob Vazquez, who put in 11 baskets. Dave Bose added five while the injured Pete Di­Giovanni chipped in three. 
"We knew we were in for a tough game today," said Mike Toner, a member of The Gau­chos who scored one. "The other team played tough de­fense and we couldn't get the easy baskets. However, Rob and Dave were able to hit the boards." 
In other games yesterday, Bridget's crushed Shamma Lamma Ding Dong 21-11, L Train defeated Moloko and Ul­traviolence 21-18, Crime Dogs beat Common's Club 21-19, the controversial All the President's Men squeaked by The Good, the 
9. 
In the closest game of the day, Fighting Kernals defeated The Real Fab Five 23-21. Other action included McCormick's beating Men Who Love Fer­mented Grain 21-14 while Pale Riders cruised to a 21-9 win over Shoot Or Get Off. Bitter won a close won over Black­jack, 21-17, while Drive By Shooting slipped past Word to Your Mother II 22-20. Salubri­ous and Callipigous defeated Jimmy Chitwood 21-19 while Frank Drebin and the 'Cocks won 21-16 over Bittersweet. 
Hanson awaits NFL draft 
SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) ­Kicker Jason Hanson isn't in­timidated by the prospect of being the next Chip Lohmiller in Sunday's 1992 NFL college draft. 
He says the greater the ex­pectation, the harder he works. 
"Those are big shoes to fol­low in. But, boy, that would be great," Hanson said Wednesday. "I think I can back it up so that I'm worthy of that pick." 
Lohmiller was chosen by the Washington Redskins in the second round of the 1988 draft -the highest pick of a kicker in recent years. 
Hanson, a record-setting kicker from Washington State, hopes for the same considera­tion from the pros despite an uneven senior season. 
"I know the expectations will be high. Sometimes that's not so bad, that will give me some­thing to shoot for," he said. 
Last season, Hanson set an NCAA record for longest field goal without a tee. His 62-yard kick against Nevada-Las Vegas broke the 59-yard mark set by Layne Talbot of Texas A&M in 1990. 
His 39 career field goals of 40 yards or longer and 20 field goals of 50 yards or more also are NCAA records. 
"I put myself to be the No.1 kicker for the draft," Hanson said. 
He cites as his closest com­petitor Carlos Huerta of Miami, who is more consistent but doesn't have the Hanson's range. 
Huerta "is a good kicker. That guy doesn't miss," Hanson said. 
Hanson's career accuracy for field goals is 24 of 30 inside 40 yards, 19 of 31 from 40 to 49 yards and 19 of 30 from 50 to 59 yards. 
In two seasons as Washington State's punter, he punted 114 times for a 43.2­yard average, including 28 of 50 yards or more. 
He said he'd like to be drafted by a West Coast team, but would play anywhere. 
''I'll kick in Green Bay or Tampa Bay," Hanson said. "Stick me in a dome. That would be the best circumstance, then at least half the season I'm guaranteed perfect weather." 
Hanson, 21, graduates from Washington State this spring with a degree in zoology. As a sophomore, he was the Cougars' first unanimous con­sensus All-America player, and also earned a spot on The Associated Press' first team. 
As a junior, Hanson became the third player in Pacific-1 0 Conference history to be named to the first team as both a punter and a kicker. 
He said he'll spend Sunday at home in Spokane with his family and his fiancee's family. That way if he's picked early in the draft, they can celebrate. 
-

. .. 


page 20 The Observer Thursday, April 23, 1992 
Doctor gives Guillen a green light for next year 
CHICAGO (AP) -A doctor who operated Wednesday on Ozzie Guillen's right knee has no reason to believe the All-Star shortstop of the Chicago White Sox won't be ready to play next season. 
"Normal recovery and reha­bilitation from this surgery is six months to one year," Dr. Scott Price said. "Ninety-five percent of the competitive ath­letes who undergo this surgery get back to their previous form." 
Price and James Boscardin, the team physicians. performed the surgery at Palos Community Hospital in suburban Palos Heights. The operation lasted three hours. 
Guillen, 28, sustained torn anterior cruciate and medial collateral ligaments Tuesday night in a collision with left fielder Tim Raines as the two went after a ninth-inning blooper by Mel Hall in a 4-3 loss to the New York Yankees at Comiskey Park. 
"It's kind of a shock," man­ager Gene Lamont said. "We feel for Ozzie, and we know how much Ozzie likes to play." 
White Sox general manager Ron Schueler said Guillen would remain in the hospital for three or four days. 
Craig Grebeck replaces Guillen, and Esteban Beltre was recalled from Vancouver of the Pacific Coast League to fill Guillen's roster spot. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

•sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•Fellowship 
of Christian Athletes will be having a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. All are welcome. Questions? Call E.D. 283-1274. 

•Irish 
Guard informational meeting for anyone interested in trying out next year will be on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in LaFortune's TV lounge. Questions?·Call 283-2449. 

•Earth 
Blade 1992 consists of 3K and 10K in-line skating (rollarblade) races on Riverside Drive near Pinhook Park. The $18 registration fee goes to the Indiana Conservation Society. 

Questions? Call Outpost Sports at 259-1000. 

•NO 
ROTC will sponsor the 2nd annual Tri-Military run for charity on Friday at 5 p.m. All are welcome to participate. Registration will be held on the day of the race beginning at 4 


p.m. behind the Security Building. The cost is $8 per runner with proceeds going to the Special Olympics. 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
-
Circulation Manager Circulation Drivers 
Must be available from lOam-lpm 
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 
~;;en~eli;t~n 
Super Saver prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Cloc.ktower Square 

(219)277-1291
51400 31 North 

Phone answered 24 hrs.
South Bend, IN 46637 

Lamont doesn't think Guillen's injury ends the team's hopes of winning the AL West after two straight second-places finishes. 
"Every time you have some­body hurt, you can't just think the season is over," Lamont said. 
But Guillen isn't just a some­body. 
He is one of the best defensive shortstops in baseball and was the most popular White Sox player because of his upbeat personality and passion for the game. 
Guillen was an All-Star selec­tion last season for the third time. He batted .273. 
The left-handed batting Venezuelan is a .267 lifetime hitter in seven previous major­league seasons, all with the White Sox. He was Rookie of the Year in 1985 and a Gold Glove winner in 1990. 
In 40 at-bats this season, he was hitting .200 with one stolen base and seven RBis. 
His injury puts the team's two most charismatic players on the shelf. Bo Jackson left the team in spring training for hip replacement surgery. 
Guillen was hurt when his leg struck Raines' in the head as the latter dived to the ground. The lower portion of Guillen's leg buckled as the players col­lided, leaving him writhing in pain on the outfield grass about 80 feet beyond the infield. 
Hayes 
continued from page 24 
California. Hayes' Southern California Wildcats, coached by Ron Lefebre (brother of Chicago Cubs' manager Jim Lefebre), lost twice in the state finals. 
During Thanksgiving and Christmas tournaments, re­cruiters flock to California softball fields by the dozens, wearing their school's colors and eying the abundance of tal­ent on the field. 
Rather than it putting undue pressure on players, the prospect of getting scholarship offers "makes the level of play go up that much more," says Hayes. "It's definitely a positive influence. It teaches everyone to be focused and perform at the highest level." 
Hayes did just that when she saw Boulac in the stands last year sporting the blue-and­gold. She went 7-for-12 and got the call, choosing Notre Dame over schools like Oklahoma State (third in the country at the time) and Northwestern. 
"I had the idea of helping Notre Dame build a program (that began only four years 

ago), and by the time I was a ,...------------------------...,
senior, that we could go to the NCAA tournament," she said, 
following  a  host  of family  
members  that  went  to  the  
University.  "Most of the girls I  

talked to didn't even know we had a softball program." 
This summer, Hayes will also get the opportunity to travel abroad with Lefebre and his team, representing the U.S. in 
Reduce Reuse Recycle 

is NOW accepting applications for the FALL BREAK 1992 
b~b~~hb~b·"-· 
-~··~~ .r~~.u-uvJ. 
IN ONE WEEK ACCOMPLISH THE FOLLOWING: 
• 
Gain valuable work experience 

• 
Network with alumni in your discipline 

• 
Explore the work environment first-hand 


Coordinated by the STUDENT ALUMNI RELATIONS GROUP (SARG), the program matches alumni sponsors with interested Notre Dame students whose education and career goals parallel those of the sponsor. STUDENTS FROM ALL DISCIPLINES MAY APPLY! 
Applica£ions available a£ 
Career and Placement Services and Alumni Association Office (201 Main Bldg.) Applications due in Alumni Office by May 8. Questions? Contact Mauricio Valdes at #1692 or Frances Shavers at 239-6000. 
clinics and in the World Games. They will visit Spain, Amsterdam, Czechoslovakia, Russia and Germany. 
"We're supposed to be under­dogs in the big tournament, but I seriously think we have a chance to win it all," she said. 
"The trip's going to be in­valuable," says Miller. "She's going to be the number one catcher for some of the top 

Sara Hayes 
pitchers in the country." 
This season, Hayes plays in unfamiliar territory in right field this. But next season when senior Amy Folsom is gone, Hayes will return to her natural position and share time with freshman Andrea Keys be­hind the plate. 
"Finding someone to come in and replace Amy, we're going to need someone to step in right away," Miller said, "especially with the expectation of our pitching staff next year." The Irish will bring in two highly touted freshman hurlers-Terri Cobata (from California) and Terry Brandgerger. 
"I'm excited to start catching again," said Hayes, whose ag­gressiveness is evident on of­fense as well as defense. "I don't think a catcher can ever throw the ball too much. I get offended if someone takes a big lead." 
Hayes also considers the catcher the field general. Right now, she leads at the plate by example. In order to continue, she must be cool under pres­sure. 
"Right now she's playing very loose because she has no pres­sure. She's a free-swinger who just steps in the box and drives it," notes Miller. "Time will tell how she'll handle the expecta­tions." 
Other Californians on the Irish roster this year are sophomore pitcher/outfielder Carrie Milller and freshman pitcher Aimee Terry. 
Wish they all could be California girls ... 
U.._,ofN-•0... Alumni 
• Association 

One year ago Dan Wagner advertised for a girlfriend... He got a wife! Congratulations Jen & Dan! Best Wishes for Your Future! Love, M&J 
Thursday, April 23, 1992 The Observer page 21 
Troy Vincent set to cash in as INFL draft approaches 
MADISON, Wis. (AP)-Troy Vincent already has taken con­trol of his life and won't need a middle man to regulate the cash flow once he's signed an NFL contract. 
Vincent, a defensive back from Wisconsin, expects to be one of the top five players se­lected in Sunday's draft. Then he plans to negotiate a deal without an agent. 
"The University of Wisconsin taught me how to read, to write, to write a check, to read a bank statement. I don't need to pay someone 5 percent to 6 percent of my money to fill out checks for me to send back to Citibank. 
''I'm a very competent indi­vidual," Vincent said in an in­terview with the Milwaukee Sentinel. "So why give someone something to do that when I can do it myself. I can take a half­hour out of the week to go through my mail, pay my bills. Why pay $60,000, $70,000 or $80,000 to do that? That's crazy." 
Annoyed by agent phone calls -sometimes up to 35 a. day to his campus apartment ­Vincent said he will let his god­parents, James and Linda Bodley, and Washington, D.C. attorney Zachrey Jones advise him through the negotiating process. 
And Vincent said that just be­cause he doesn't have a][l agent doesn't mean he won't think about a holdout if he isn't of­fered a fair deal. 
"I plan to have a very good contract. No one wants to hold out. but if I have to, it's some­thing I'll consider," he said. 
Vincent said he'll buy a new car and then buy a new home for his mother, who is a correc­tional officer in New Jersey. 
"I don't want her working double and triple shifts like she's been doing the last 20 years," he said. 
Vincent, who is 6-1, 191 pounds, visited Indianapolis, the Los Angeles Rams, Dallas Cowboys and Cincinnati Bengals for predraft meetings. 
"I really don't feel like I'll be on the board after the fourth pick, at the latest," said Vincent, who played on four straight losing teams in college. He was the star of the Badgers' 5-6 season in 1991, both as a kick returner and cornerback. 
Vincent, a native of Trenton, N.J., isn't sure where he's go­ing. 
''I'd say L.A., but I'd be guessing like everyone else," he said. "The last visit with L.A. was very productive. That was the only visit where they said they were either going with me or Sean Gilbert." 

-~---~ 

page 22 . The-Observer --Thursday, April 23, 1992 
America3 wins fifth straight over Stars & Stripes 
SAN DIEGO (AP) -Bill Koch's yacht America3 made it five in a row over defending champion Dennis Conner's Stars & Stripes, winning the third race of the America's Cup defender final by 4 minutes, 20 seconds Wednesday 
The victory America3 a 3-0 lead in the best-of-13 series be­ing sailed in the waters ofT San Diego's Point Lorna. 
Conner must now win seven of the remaining 10 races to advance to the America's Cup match for the fifth consecutive time. 
America3 has won 11 of 14 races against Stars & Stripes and has an overall record of 20-5. Stars & Stripes' overall record is 13-19. 
Sailing in breezes that fresh­ened to 10 knots, America3 cruised around the 20.03-nau­tical-mile course in 2 hours, 37 minutes, 19 seconds. 
The yacht New Zealand took a 2-1 lead in the best-of-9 chal­lenger final, downing Italy's II Moro di Venezia by 34 seconds. New Zealand's elapsed time was 2:42:44. 
It was another seesaw battle between the two yachts, as New Zealand overcame a 1­minute, 42-second deficit to II Moro at the end of the first leg. II Moro defeated New Zealand on Monday by only one second in a race that had four lead changes. 
The racing was delayed over an hour due to light, shifting winds. 

/ The conditions were expected to favor Stars & Stripes, but the year-old boat did not fare well in the four-foot seas that rolled across the race course. 
Conner had a good start and took an early lead. Then about halfway up the first leg America3 got a favorable wind shift and took a 1:16 lead at the first turning mark. 
Koch, who heads the America3 Foundation syndi­cate, took over the helm from helmsman Buddy Melges on the second leg. 
The yacht America3 extended its lead to 5:20 by the end of the seventh leg of the eight-leg course. Stars & Stripes nar­rowed the gap on America3 only on the sixth and eighth legs. 
C R E D I ~M A D A M S 
H A L I B U T S 0 L 0 M 0 N 
[ E R U D JJ.~ ~ ~ S 0 M E SIS. S 0 PH IS r• SEA s TRR E E v E WTA N D 
W E L S L A I RTD S 
IMA RLS
1''~·~·0· 

.IP I~ f¥i T Tlo S 

·­
D 0 VIE s p 0 I 
WJ. 
AM EIS C 0 M A S DEE D 

P A ••,J;m>l.•R I 0
P I A N I S T E L E G A N T E N G I N E S M A N A T E E REELED ROPERS 

Houses for Rent 92-93 
~ El s-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished ~...-ity Systems Washers/Dryers 
287·4989 
Save szso.oo with thlaAD* 
• new renter• o~ 

Men's golf team finishes tenth at Firestone Invitational 
By MIKE HOBBES 
Sports Writer 
For the men's golf team, the Easter holiday was a chance to show its improvement from past tmtrnaments and prepare for its upcoming season finale. 
The Irish posted their strongest finish of the season so far, while competing against many Big Ten conference teams and past NCAA qualifiers. 
The Irish traveled to Akron, Oh. for the Firestone Invitational to compete against 35 other universities from across the Midwest. Once again, the weather made an untimely appearance, causing the scheduled play for Saturday to be cancelled. To make up for the lost rounds, the Irish played 36 holes on Sunday. The increased amount of holes didn't seem to effect the Irish as they grabbed tenth. 
"We played well. The conditions were a little adverse and the course is one of the elite in the U.S., but all in all we performed nicely and are continually improving," said Assistant Coach Dave Long. 
Despite the wet conditions of the course on Sunday, junior Chris Dayton managed scores of 76 and 34, for a total of 110, to lead the team. Keppler Invitational at Ohio State this 
Following Dayton was junior Joe weekend. Denoon, freshman Chris O'Connell, senior "We think we have a strong shot at Mike Crisanti and freshman Cole Hanson. doing very well this weekend after having 
The Irish are looking to continue their beaten many of the same teams we faced at strong performance as they head into the Firestone," said Long. 
Notre Dame track season ends at relays 
By RIAN AKEY 
Sports Writer 

Seven consecutive weeks of away track meets will culminate for the men's outdoor team this weekend. Split squads will represent Notre Dame at the Ball State Relays in Muncie (In), and the Drake Relays in Des Moines. 
With only a couple meets remaining to qualify for the ICAAAAs, this weekend's meets become key for those athletes who have yet to qualify. 
A large contingent of ND tracksters hopes to 'Continue its steady improvement at Ball State. But, many of the Irish's more high profile team members will make the trip to Iowa for the Drake relays. 
Among those heading to Drake is junior J.T. Burke, who looks forward to the competition. 
"This will be a very big meet, with a lot of powerful schools," Burke commented. "With the athletes we're taking along, we should be very competitive. 
"My season has gone pretty well, but I'd really like to take a big step forward this weekend and have some runs with good times. This will be a big challenge for me." 
Freshman Ruder is equally excited about the Drake competition. 
"I look forward to just seeing the meet," he noted. "I've heard a lot about it and it's supposed to be very well-supported. To qualify for ICAAAAs there would be very exciting." 

I
• 

Get Your Student Discount Card Today. 
If you're enrolled in high school/college, Hardee's will give you abreak with student specials. Just present your student discount card before you)l order. Give yourself abreak that tastes great! 

© 1990, Hardee's Food Systems, Inc./LAM 
-----------------------~----------,-----·--------------~---·-·--·-~------·--·-----·­
Thursday, April 23, 1992 ' page 23 
-~ ­

Today 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER CROSSWORD 
DODO(f'VJNK MALWY k 
~ 
. 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
,11\E STr>.RS .A.ND ?Lr..N£.~
STf...'i AWA'I. SVS\E.! I 001'-\T 
1\Rt. 00\~G \\\IS .1 I Cl\~'1:
Wt-.1'-\T N-l~ B\<; DWIDENDS, 
,\\t:\...1> \1.' M'{ r..IJRt>. \S
GOT \I? 00~'1 L\'5\'t.\-1. iO 
~OBI3ES.' UNC.~IRO\.L~BlE .' 
THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
MENU 
Notre Dame 
Grilled Pork Chops Baked Cajun Cod Rolled Cheese Omelets 

ITS 11\t: 13\ls! 1\-\E. B\JS \'S \-\ERE! 'tl\-IEEE! I'M SM:t! '(O\J CA~~ 00 f...I-\'{\1-\\~G 
. !-lOW ! \-\~ \\f... ! l'tlt crv TO 
SC.I-\OOl.' 1-\ooRr-..'1'(.' 
\ 
SPIN 
BILL WATTERSON 
11-\t. Wfo.~ C,~L'J\t{S BRr..IN IS 
'tliRED, '(OlJ CAN ALMOST 
1-l.HR 11-\£. 1-\l<:.t.S BlO't·H~G. 
JOHN MONKS 


"Hey! Five bucks-I'd forgotten that was in there." 
Saint Mary's 
Pizza Deluxe Cheese Pizza Deli Bar Spinach Souffie Oven Broiled Chicken 
ACROSS 45 Calendar abbrevi­
ation 1 Ledger column 46 Iowa college town 7 Feminine titles 47 Unconscious states 
13 Food fish 49 Legal document 15 -'s Temple 51 Golf term 16 Very learned 52 Seemingly contrary 17 Offensive, as an statement 
odor 54 -Rita 18 Family member, for 55 Brubeck, for one short 57 Richly refined 19 Fallacious reasoner 59 Locomotives 
60 Sea cow 61 Walked unsteadily 62 Ranch workers 
DOWN 
1 Bobby Fischer's game 42 -Dan 2 Rutgers' river 44 Pathological suffix 3 Slippery 47 Inspected before 4 Performed rabbi ng5 Wading bird 48 Type of energy 6 Instr~ctor 50 Shows excessive 7 Certain lodge fondness 
member 52 Ponderosa ­8 Dismounted 53 Prefix: foreign 9 John -Passos 56 Nothing 
10 -Andy 58 Hiatus 11 Instants 12 Golfers Sam and J.C. 14 Wigwams 15 Whine 20 Cut 23 Dries again 25 Type of yarn27 Certain trucks 29.Chamberlain, et al. 31 "When I was a 
" 
33 Greek nickname 36 Lettuce variety 37 Mean 38 Newspaper section 39 Crown 40 Run 41 Composer Max ­
LECTURES Thursday 

4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Part II: Democratic Consolidation in Chile," Ignado Walker, General Secretariat of the Presidency, Chile. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute, Center for Civil and Human Rights and Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
7:30 p.m. Mad eleva Lecture: "Women and Sexuality," Lisa Sowle Cahill, Boston College. O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint Mary's College. 
Friday 

Noon Lecture: "Forty Turbulent Years in China: 1951­1991," Wu Ningkun, Chinese Dissident, Retired Professor of English, Institute of International Relations, Beijing, China. Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Sponsored by Institute for International Peace Studies. 
... 


NEO•GEO Campus Challenge April 21-24, at Theodores llam to 6pm The Quest for the Crown 
Golf Tournament, Tricycle Race, Tug of War 
SMC Picnic April 23, at SMC 4:30 pm to 6:30 pm 
Pasta Eating Contest, Jello Wrestling, Canoe Races 
ReCeSs April 24, at Stepan Center 9pm to 12 am 
Root Beer Chugging, Finger Painting, .Pie Eating 
HOGSTOCK April 25, at Stepan Field llam to 2pm 
Mud Pits, Picnic, Campus Bands 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Sports 
page 24 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 

Notre Dame gets thumbs down in Sports llustrated 
In the past month Sports Illustrated has reeognized Notre Dame in its weekly fea­ture Judgment Calls on two different occasions. 
In the April 6 issue, the magazine gave the University a thumbs up for raising $30,000 in the people auction for the llipp and Beeler scholarship funds. 
Then last w1w.k's issue acknowledged the Irish again, this time with a thumbs down for dropping its wrestling program. 
The fact that Sports Illustrated has brought these issues to national attention shows the national microscope that Notre Damn is under. whether this is fair or not. 
If almost any othH school in the country decided to drop wrestling, it would not have gotten more than a mention in the daily transaetions in most newspapers, and probably would not 1wnn be mentioned in Sports Illustrated. 
Sf chooses and makes its judgment calls on a variety of faetors. Usually, it has to select the two or three weekly issues which it passes judgement on from about 10 possibilities. 
These possibilities come from a variety of sources, such as, reporters, contributors. various local newspapers from across the country and the Assodated Press wire services. 
After gathering the possible topics, there is no set process on which ones to give thumbs up or thumbs down. 
Usually, the issues that the readers see each week are the ones which, hopefully, are of most interest to them. 
Since Notre Dame has been featured in Judgment Calls twice in the past month, it is obvious that Sl feels that its readers are interested in what is going on under the Dome. 
Though it may not be fair that Notre Dame receives this much publicity, there is nothing the University can do about it accept use it to its advantage and let the entire country know about the good things that it does. 
.. 
... It is great that news of the Hipp-Beeler fund raiser made it outside of Michiana. When I saw the thumbs up in SI, I was proud that I went to Notre Dame. Unfortunately, this proudness turned to embarrassment a few weeks later when I saw a deserved thumbs down concerning the University's decision to drop its wrestling program. 
Thumbs downs are for the George 
Steinbrenners and restrictive country 
dubs of the sports world. 
I would like to think that the university that I attend is better than that. Hopefully, Notre Dame will not lower itself to the thumbs down level again. 
-INSIDE SPORTS 
• Relays mark end for men's track 
see page 22 
• 
Guillen gets OK for next year see page 20 

• 
Future uncertain for Barkley see page 18 


Thursday, April 23, 1992 Free-swinging Hayes gives Irish experience 
By JIM VOGL 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Well, the West Coast has the sunshine and the girls play softball 
year round. through the fall and winter. and the way they hit, they knock you out when 
you're on the mound... 
Notre Dame softball slugger Sara Hayes, a freshman from South Pasadena, Ca., joined the Amateur Softball Association her sophomore year in high school, and has been riding the high tide ever since. 
Currently leading the team in 
virtually every hitting category 
(.323 average, 11 doubles, four 
The Observer/ J .Rock 

homers and 23 RBI), Hayes has
California native Sara Hayes will move from her right field 
easily adapted to the eollege
position to her more natural position of catcher next season. 
level, thanks to her naturally quick wrists and her strong background in California's ul­tra-competitive ASA league. 
"Sara's been schooled well," says Irish eoach Brian Boulac. "She comes in as probably the most advanced hitter we've ever had." 
"Softball's big business in California," adds assistant Liz Miller. "They play it almost all year round. The high school season becomes secondary out there as they put all their en­ergy and focus into ASA-ball. It's very competitive and when they practiee and play as many months as they do, it makes a difference." 
Six of the top ten national ASA teams last year came from 
see HAVES I page 20 

Top freshman to stay at Notre Dame 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team received a big boost for next season when sophomore guard Audrey Gomez decided to remain at the university. 
The decision came after Gomez met with her parents and diseussed her future as a basketball player and as a student. 
"Last weekend, when I went home to New Jersey. I discussed it with my parents and we decided that it was best for me to remain at Notre Dame," said Gomez. 
Gomez announced her intentions to transfer at the conclusion of the regular season, leaving a large hole in the Notre Dame backeourt. She was sold on leaving Notre Dame for a sehool eloser to her home in New Jersey. 
"I was very close to leaving," said Gomez. "I really had my mind set on leaving until this weekend." 
The news came as a pleasant surprise 
to  head  coach  Muffet  McGraw.  
"Coach  was  very  happy  that  I'm  
staying,"  said  Gomez.  "I  told  her  

Tuesday night and she seemed very excited." 
Another reason Gomez may have changed her mind is the status of her tender knee whieh limited her play last season. She is currently undergoing therapy and expects to be ready when 
Just Chillin' slides into sweet sixteen with 21-11 w1n 

~­~&•. 
,, 

Audrey Gomez , shown here against Athletes in Action, will be in an Irish uniform next season after deciding not to transfer to another university. 
the season starts. loss of freshman Michelle Marciniak 
"I go back in (to have the knee who, like Gomez, announced her inten­checked) on Saturday," commented tion to transfer at the end of the season. Gomez. "I expect to be one-hundred Gomez, Marciniak, and forward Letitia percent by the start of the season. I'm Bowen comprised the best reeruiting looking forward to next year very class ever by the women's basketball much." program. All three received national 
A healthy Gomez's should buffer the honors at the end of their prep careers. 
. 


By MARK McGRATH 
Sports Writer 

The Sweet 16 is here and that means blood, intense competition and intimidation. 
Yesterday, the round of 32 was played and the Sweet 16 will take place today behind the bookstore. 
Tequila White Lightning and Just Chillin' showed they were good enough to be the two top seeds for the remainder of the tournament. Tequila is the number one seed, Just Chillin' the two-seed while the Gauchos and Malicious Prosecution occupy the third and fourth positions, respectively. 
Just Chillin' took the court ready to dominate and that is what they did, cruising to a 21-11 win over Dogs in Heat 
II. Led by Ray Griggs (6 pts), Just Chillin' was able to jump out to a quick lead and never look back. 
"I thought we played well," commented Griggs. "We were able to run and that's what we do best." 
The game was highlighted by a slam by Griggs in which he hanged on the rim in what looked like an intimidation move toward the other teams. 
Just Chillin' was able to spread the scoring around. David Clar had five points while Mike May had four and Joe Fulton and Kevin Hule chipped in three apiece. 
"We are starting to come together as a team," stated May. "We hit the boards really hard and we were even able to make the extra pass when we wanted to." 
see BOOKSTORE/page 19 










