J'./ e;·t --·G. L) {ffYJ~--o//' 
t-,D _, 
1 : I I/ 
-, () ; >1 VI ;z., 5"/ #Is­
server 

VOL. XXV. NO. 15 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Professors: 
Clinton aim 

will be youth 
............. 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame is the perfect fo­rum for Bill Clinton to voice an appeal to young voters and to focus on family issues, accord­ing to several political scholars 
:?1 

k • Clinton views/ page 5 
t.. 

on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
"Clinton is clearly interested in continuing to appeal to younger voters and his visit comes at an important time be­cause he gets national public­ity," said Robert Schmuhl, chair of the American studies department and political au­thor. 
With both national following and alumni, the University serves as a diverse forum, ac­

Fountain in progress cording to Doug Kmiec, law 
professor.

Construction of the Sesquicentennial Commons continues at a steady pace. The fountain will be adjacent to the modern DeBartolo Classroom "In a campaign that stresses 
Building, helping to fill out the new quad. family values, what better place 
than Notre Dame, a place con­
cerned with families and the 

welfare of American families in
Football parking shifts for baseball stadium construction 
general," said Kmiec, former 


By LORI LINDLEY News Writer 
Parking for the football sea­son will be different this year due to construction of a new baseball stadium southeast of the JACC. 
From 800 to 1000 park'ing spaces will be lost in Blue Field, just east of Gold Field and south of the football practice fields. To compensate, more space will be available north of Douglas Street and Juniper Road, in White Field. 
"We're not really losing spaces, we're shifting these spaces north of Douglas and Juniper," said Phillip Johnson, assistant director of Police and Security. 
Transpo will be running a shuttle from White Field to the stadium, for a fare of 50 cents. In addition, Juniper Road is well equipped to accommodate large numbers of pedestrians. 
"Over the past few years we've made major improve-

Negotiators reach acease-fire agreement 
' 

with warring factions in Bosnia, French say 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -The chief Euro­pean and U.N. negotiators reached a cease-fire agreement Thursday with the three war­ring factions in Bosnia, accord­ing to the French Defense Ministry. 
The communique, issued in Paris, gave no details on the cease-fire and did not say when it was to take affect. 
Earlier in the day, Lord Owen, the European Community's chief peace negotiator, and Cyrus Vance, the U.N.'s special envoy, said the Muslim, Croat and Serb leaders had agreed to attend peace talks in Geneva next week. 
Owen and Vance arrived in Sarajevo in an armored per­sonnel carrier wearing flak jackets and helmets as fighting raged across the capital. 
Vance said the most impor­tant achievement of a half-day of talks in Sarajevo was agree­ment from Bosnia's Muslim president, Alija Izetbegovic, to lead his delegation to the Geneva talks Sept. 18. lzetbe­govic has refused to attend most previous talks, saying he would not negotiate with forces attacking his city. 
Bosnia's Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, and Croatian leader Mate Bohan already agreed to attend the talks. 
But Owen cautioned against being overly optimistic. 
"Sadly we are facing the fact that the fighting will go on longer than we would have liked," he told reporters at Sarajevo airport. 
Vance and Owen said Karadzic had agreed to place water and power supplies, fre­quently interrupted in recent weeks, under U.N. control. The Bosnian government accuses the Serbs of cutting supply lines. 
The Bosnian Health Ministry said 34 people died and 256 were wounded throughout the country in the 24-hour period that ended at noon Thursday. That included 13 dead and 95 wounded in Sarajevo. 
At least 9,000 people -some estimates say 35,000 -have died since majority Muslims and Croats voted feb. 29 to se­cede from Serb-dominated Yu­goslavia, sparking a Bosnian Serb revolt. 
Owen said he found the situation in the capital "ghastly" and said the United Nations 
would extend its mandate in Bosnia-Herzegovina. "There are limits, but we will extend those limits," he said. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali on Thursday proposed that the United Nations increase its 1,500-member peacekeeper force in Bosnia fivefold. 

Owen called for the arrest and prosecution of the gunmen who fired on a U.N. convoy Tuesday, killing two French peacekeepers. Five peacekeep­ers were injured in the attack. 
Izetbegovic said there was no "hard evidence" that Bosnian forces were responsible, as U.N. officials have charged. 
Vance and Owen arrived in Sarajevo Thursday morning in an armored convoy that trav­eled overland from the Croatian port of Split. They left for Zagreb, Croatia, aboard a French air force plane -the first aircraft to have landed in Sarajevo since an Italian relief plane was shot down last week. 
In Geneva, the United Nations proposed measures to allow the safe resumption of aid flights into Sarajevo, including the withdrawal of anti-aircraft guns within the range of relief flight routes. 
assistant attorney general 

ments along Juniper Road with during the Reagan administra­
pedestrian safety and the tion. movement of a significant Philosophy professor David number of pedestrians in mind. Morris expects that Clinton will 
We can safely move thousands make the most of the opportu­of people between the stadium nity to make a major policy ad­
and White Field with 
dress. "Clinton will think twice appropriate crosswalks and about giving a stump speech,"
wide sidewalks," said Johnson. 
he said. 
see PARKING I page 4 see CLINTON I page 4 
<''f:riday·. 
4:30 p.tn. Marching Band Rehearsal. Green Field. 
6:45 p.m. Band Step-Qff tor Pep Rally, 
·Band Building.. · 7:00p.m. Pep Rally, J.A.C.C. 
7:30 p.m. Men's Socce_r vs. Illinois-Chicago, 
Atumni Field. 8!00 p.m. Vorfeyba.U vs. Ohio. J.A.C.C~. 
·Saturday . 
· 9:00 a.m. ND Alumm basebaH game,· · 
· Jake Kline Fiera. · · .. . · ._ .· 9:00 a~~ NO_. Saint Ma;y's, ttoty Cro$_(~~~ge . .Atul'nf\1 HospUafrty Cemer'. J.A.C.C. . . · . · . 10!30 a.m. Gtee Club 00~ J.A.C.C. --;> ·.· 
·11 :00 a.m. Sherum_igans ·.~rmance. .hA.p.c.!."11fl a.m. Pom Pon_ Squac:J and Cheerteadlf:l9 
~-·-Penormance, J.A.C. C. AeldflQuse. ·· · . . . .. _:n:asa.m. Sand Concert Admlriistration ~uilding:
-: .. >~:35 p.m.. Kickoff, Football vs. MictJtOan, '_:;._,_, .· Notre Dame Stacium~ · · '·"-,· 
5:00 p.m. Vigil Mass, Basmca of the Sacred Heart 
'~~,_.~· . 
1t:oo...:-~ Mass. 
'. ,. :.:-· -· 
--~ 
~ ._ . ., ___t. . 

~ · · ~t_ ---_ · :~~\J.~· -·-_ ---~}!·"4..., .. -~ .-~~ 

!..1 

-·!·-~:..,..· 

•. 

page 2 Thursday, September 1 0, 1992
The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Politics is a trendy deal this year Something weird is happening at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and college campuses across the country. Monica Yant Students are talking Editor-in-Chief about it, bragging about it and committing to it. More than a movement and more than ideology, it has ensnared even the holdouts. It's politics. And this year, it's awfully trendy. Sure, students have been interested in politics before, and the 1992 election has yet to approach the youthful flurry seen during John Kennedy's political rise. But as this campaign heads into overdrive, even casual observers can't help but note that the talk on both sides of the political spectrum seems much more animated than in recent years. There's a reason, of course, and it's not just that Bill Clinton is selling his wares on MTV and President Bush became a Domer at commencement last Spring. Clinton may be catering more to the "youth vote," but both politicians have definite agendas aimed at luring the 18-to-26 year-old electorate. So why is it that politics has become ... so vogue? Look to the issues for some answers: •In 1988, the talk was Willie Horton and Reaganomics. In 1992, there's Al Gore's environment and Bush's school choice. There are arguments to be made about everything from abortion to health care ­issues that are more identifiable for a generation too young to remember how the debt started and too unaffected to care. •Since 1988, communism has fallen, the Gulf War was won and racial tension erupted in Los Angeles. What's left is an obvious focus inward, on a domestic front that young people see and feel on a daily basis. So when Bush (and former Irish coach Digger Phelps) talk up "Weed and Seed" programs in the inner cities, young voters tune in. And when Clinton promises to send all young people to college, students want to know how. But for every nouveau-pundit in search of the perfect candidate and a 4.0 there comes a tremendous responsibility to break out of the pack and think beyond the trend. It's one thing to tout Clinton because he represents a new generation of politics and can play a mean sax. It's another to understand the implications. of his bank restructuring proposals and taxation plans. For that matter, the recently politically aware collegians should look beyond the President's apparent social malaise and seek to find the heart of his message. He wants voters to trust him; it's the voters' job to decide why. The visits-Clinton's today and Bush's in May-are a just a start. The challenge is to transform the cheerleading of any political rally into substantive dialogue and informed decisions. Clinton is banking on a swing vote from the 18-to-26 year-olds. Bush knows the age bracket rarely turns out in large numbers, but would love to lead a charge in his direction.  
Today's Staff News Production Sandy Wiegand Susan Marx Pancho Lozano Whitney Sheets Sports Systems Jim Vogl Matt Carbon Rolando DeAguiar Viewpoint Accent Allison Eber Terry Edwards Tomi Otey Jennifer Guerin Tomi Otey Kenya Johnson The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  


COLD WARM STATIONARY © 1992 Accu-Weather, Inc. 

: Tokyo 81 68 
il/
: Washington, D.C. 80 69 

-:-·-· :-:·:· 
Pr9ssur9 
..
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
... 
Via A.sMxitllled Press 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Clifford loses bid to narrow charges 
• WASHINGTON-Washington insider Clark Clifford lost his bid Thursday to face narrow federal charges here in the BCCI scandal before standing trial on broader charges in New York state. A U.S. District Judge granted a request by federal and state prosecutors to postpone a federal fraud case against Clifford and his law partner Robert Altman until after their New York trial, set to begin Jan. 4. The judge also appointed a cardiologist to examine the 85-year-old Clifford, as he and the Justice Department had requested. Federal and New York state prosecutors said last week that, depending on the court-appointed doctor's assessment, they may decide to excuse Clifford from facing trial. Altman, who was indicted with Clifford in late July, would still go on trial. 
OF INTEREST 
Cloudy and stormy 
continuing today. 
Lows will be in the 
50's, highs in the 
70's. Rain continued 
through Friday. 
TEMPERATURES 
City H L Anchorage 55 39 Atlanta 86 69 Bogota 63 43 
Boston 70 65 Cairo 88 70 • Chicago 84 59 Cleveland 84 69 · Dallas 94 76 Detroit 78 65 Indianapolis 82 67 Jerusalem 75 61 : London 63 48 Los Angeles 82 65 

· Madrid 86 61 :··-·. Minneapolis 74 41 Moscow 66 45 
: Nashville 89 69 i}; 
·:···
New York 75 68 

:::::: 
Paris 66 45 

:-·-·.
Philadelphia 77 69 

:::::·
Rome 79 50 .;.;.; Seattle 66 57 ··.• 
: South Bend 83 66 

CAMPUS Shields to address Advisory Council 
• Notre Dame-Political analyst Mark Shields will address the College of Business Administration's Advisory Council at 3 p.m. Friday in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium. He was originally scheduled to speak at 1:30 p.m. Gov. Bill Clinton's visit to Notre Dame Friday has forced a change in Shields' schedule. Shields, the well-known Washington Post columnist and member of CNN's Capital Gang, plans to attend Clinton's speech. 
Disaster training classes will be held at the St. Student Union Board is now accepting applications Joseph County Chapter for those persons interested in for the Director of Programming. Applications are becoming Red Cross volunteers. Family Services will be available from the S.U.B. Secretary on .the 2nd floor of held today from 1-5 p.m. at the chapter house on 3220 LaFortune. The application deadline is Tuesday, East Jefferson Boulevard in South Bend. September 15 at 5p.m. 
NDCIBD fundraising division will meet at 7 p.m. Student activities is seeking responsible, flexible tonight in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. New students to work as part of the new LaFortune Building members are encouraged to find out more about the crew. Responsibilities include room set ups and council's newest division. For more information, call breakdowns. Hours are varied-mainly weekends and Troy at 283-4070. evenings. Pay rate is $5.30/hr. Position reports to 
Assistant Director, Facilities. Pick up applications at 
Seniors majoring in Business (Finance, Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Deadline for Management, and Marketing) are invited to their applying is Wednesday, September 16. Placement Night tonight at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Representatives from General Troop Notre Dame organizational meeting Mills, Goldman Sachs, and LaSalle National Bank will scheduled for Thursday, September 10 at 9 p.m. at discuss opportunities in their representative industries Room 219 Rockne has been moved to the Notre Dame as well as offer insights on interviewing. Room on 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
The Hispanic-American Organization will have its International students on Notre Dame policy on first meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame U.S. Taxes: Due to a change in University procedures, Room of LaFortune. Any questions, contact Izzy (283-Federal & State income taxes will be deducted from 7721} or Anita (283-4231). paychecks as of September 30, 1992. Professor Milani 
will explain on Thursday Sept. 10 at 4:15 p.m. or 
October 5 at 6:30p.m. in Hayes-Healy Room 122. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY•s TRADING September 10 
NYSEINDEX 
+1.68 to 230.78 S&P COMPOSITE +3.59 to 419.95 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+33.77 to 3,305.16 
GOLD 
+.00 to $344.20 
SILVER -.08 to $3.732 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
1789: Alexander Hamilton was appointed the first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury. 1936: President Franklin D. Roosevelt dedicated Boulder Dam -now known as Hoover Dam -by pressing a key in Washington to signal the startup of the dam's first hydroelectric generator in Nevada. 1973: Chilean President Salvador Allende died in a violent military coup. 1982: 46 people were killed in a U.S. Army helicopter crash near Mannheim, West Germany. 1986: Pete Rose of the Cincinnati Reds cracked career hit number 4,192 off Eric Show of the San Diego Padres, eclipsing the record held by Ty Cobb. 
Friday, September 11, 1992 The Observer page 3 
SMC chemistry professor dies 


.---BUY-ONE:-GET-ONE-FREET___, 
By KIM ST. CLAIR 
News Writer 
Mark Bambenek, 57, a pro­fessor of chemistry at Saint Mary's College for 27 years, died Wednesday in South Bend after a long bout with illness. 
Bambenek was valued by both faculty and students. 
"He was one of the mainstays of the department," said Phillip Bays, chair of the Chemistry and Physics Department, "He fixed all of the equipment and knew where everything was." 
Bambenek had a close rela­tionship with his students. Bays said, "He could see a face and know that student's name for­ever." 
Bays also recalled that Bam-
Mark Bambenek 
benek kept· and reviewed daily a list of students' birthdays. The chemistry professor was highly regarded among the students as both a teacher and friend. 
"During class he was known to wind himself up to look like a 



IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START SAVING FORRETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT. 
C
an't afford to save for retirement? The truth is, you can't afford not to. Not when you realize that your retirement can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want to live at least as comfortably then as you do now. And that takes planning. 
By starting to save now, you can take advantage of tax-deferral and give your money time to compound and grow. Consider this: set aside just $wo each month beginning at age 30 and you can accumulate over $192,539* by the time you reach age 65. But wait ten years and you'll have to budget $227 each month to reach the same goal. 
double helix DNA." said Bays. 
Brigid Brooks, a 1992 gradu­ate who majored in chemistry, remembered the day of her fi­nal exam, when Bambenek dressed up in a nun's habit with a bright pink beard. She said, "He made class fun." 
Bambenek was born in Wa­tertown, South Dakota. He re­ceived his bachelor of science degree from the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota, in 1956, and his master's and doctoral degrees from the Uni­versity of Iowa, in 1961. 
While at Saint Mary's, Bam­benek was awarded the Out­standing Teaching Award by the Saint Mary's Student Gov­ernment Association and the College's Maria Pieta Award, for outstanding achievement in teaching lower division courses . He was also the faculty representative for Saint Mary's Board of Regents fom 1982-88. 
A memorial service for Bam­benek will be held today at 3 
p.m. in the Regina Chapel at Saint Mary's. 
S m t) k i n g. 
It 
"American){eart Association 
Even if you're not counting the years to retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF to help you build the future you deserve­with flexible retirement and tax-deferred annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest­ment choices, and a record of personal service that spans 75 years. 
Over a million people in education and research put TIAA-CREF at the top of their list for retirement planning. Why not join them? 

Call today and learn how simple it is to build a secure tomorrow when you · have time and TIAA-CREF working on your side. 
St.rt Pl.a•ino yourfotJWe. CIJ.U Ofl.r B•roUme11t Hotli.e 1 800 842-2888. 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 

•A.~o~unuia.9 1111 intuutrtlh of 7.5% criiJit.e} to TL4A &tvonortAmwiliu. TbiJ raiL iJ we'd .10/dyto .,~:.o, the powu 4ll44/atofCDif'IIH'WliJiJtg. L-uorbigbu ratu wou/3 l""~ua Nry 'Ji/ferutt ruulu. CREFurti/iult'-.1 are IJulTibuuiJ by TIAA-CREF I nJ~ual .MbutilutuuuJ~. 
The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Planting for privacy 
Sarin Hall Co-President Chris Browning and Rector Steve Newton plant hedges around the hall for more privacy. 
Russia, China sell reactors to Iranians 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Russia and China have agreed despite 
U.S. objections to sell nuclear reactors and technology to Iran, a combination of U.S. and Iranian officials said Thursday. 
Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani, on a visit to Beijing, confirmed that China had agreed to sell his country the makings of a 300-megawatt re­actor for "peaceful" purposes. He gave no details. 
Russia has agreed to sell Iran two 440-megawatt reactors and to provide some 170 techni­cians to install and operate it, said the People's Mujahedeen of Iran, the largest anti-gov­ernment opposition movement. 
A Bush administration official said the deal likely will be an­nounced Sept. 21. The official, speaking on condition of anonymity. said the United States had sought to dissuade the Russians from completing the deal. 
"We're concerned about the political symbolism of such a deal," he said...It's not that we think the reactors mean Iran will have bombs in five years," the official added. 
Even if the reactors were transferred tomorrow, he added, it would take years for them to begin work. 
Russia, China and Iran all in­sist that the reactors and re­lated technology are designed to produce nuclear power. But 
U.S. officials say Iran plans to produce nuclear weapons and could easily convert the plants to military use. 
The United States had urged China, which was a major arms supplier to Iran during the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war, to reject the Iranian nuclear deal. 
Chinese officials insisted, however. that the reactor was non-military. They pointed out that earlier this year they signed the Nuclear Non-Prolif­eration Treaty which bars the transfer of nuclear technology for military use. 
Iran had been seeking two 300-megawatt reactors from China, and it was unclear why it didn't get both. 


page 4 The Observer Friday, September 11, 1992 
Gubernatorial nominee unveils budget-balancing plan 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -Re­revenue during his four-year 
soon as he promised to do after be devoted to pay raises for publican gubernatorial nominee term. winning the GOP primary. "It's other state employees, who Linley Pearson unveiled on "It's going to take an heroic grade 'F' in Economics 101 be­have gone three years without 
t ' Thursday his long-awaited effort to get this done," said cause it just doesn't wash." increases. 
l budget-balancing plan, claim­Pearson, the three-term attor­
' 
ing he could save $343 million ney general. "But I'm saying The key components of Pear­DeLaney said the savings fig­a year. I'm going to do it, and Evan son's plan are: ures are inflated. If all 3,886 Democrats quickly responded Bayh hasn't said anything he •Installing new cost-contain­state employees at or above the that the Republican's proposal will do other than raise taxes." ment measures to hold down supervisory level were fired, for job cuts, reductions in Medi­Bayh has declined Pearson's the growth of Medicaid and that would produce an annual caid payments and improved challenge to take a no-new­welfare. Pearson estimates a savings of $73.8 million in gen­tax collections wouldn't pro­taxes pledge. The governor has managed-care program would eral fund expenditures, she duce the savings he promised. said consistently he doesn't save $100 million a year by bet­said. 
Pearson said his goal is to re­want to raise taxes but he ter screening the services Med­She pointed out that all or strain spending, eventually needs later state revenue in­icaid recipients get. part of the salaries for many of bringing it in line with revenue, formation that will be available the employees Pearson wants to and to avoid a tax increase. He in December before he could DeLaney called Pearson's eliminate aren't paid for with
Linley Pearson 

argued his plan and his goals make a credible no-tax pledge. projected savings "completely general fund revenues. Instead, stand in stark contrast to those Ann M. DeLaney, the execu­"We've waited 101 days for unrealistic" because it's not a significant portion of the of Democratic Gov. Evan Bayh, tive director of the state Demo­this plan," said DeLaney, who currently possible to implement salaries comes from federal whom Pearson has criticized for cratic Party, said Pearson's plan has regularly chided Pearson managed care statewide. funds or revenues from dedi­approving spending in excess of is full of holes. for not announcing the plan as •Eliminating from 1,500 to cated sources such as fees ­
2,000 high and mid-level man­sources that wouldn't be af­his visit and what he says cording· to Leege. Young enthu­agement jobs in state govern­fected by Pearson's plan. 
would be an appeal to Catholic siasm is a way of reaching par­

Clinton 
ment. Pearson estimates this • Improving collection of back voters, a constituency that Ge­ents and older people, he could produce a net savings of taxes owed to the state. Pearsonorge Bush is seriously seeking." added.
continued from page 1 
$75 million a year. said his plan, which wouldThe speech will probably be Clinton takes an interest in 
The atmosphere at Notre He said the gross savings include contracting with private 
aimed toward young voters, ac­higher education, according to 
Dame is different because of would likely be higher but some collection agencies, could yield
cording to several of the pro­Schmuhl. "He has advocated 
the rich tradition of concern of the savings would probably at least $100 million a year.
fessors. He appeared on MTV, programs to allow young people about social and ethical issues, Arsenio Hall and various other to go to college if they would and there is subtle pressure to talk shows to appeal to young perform service to help payaddress serious issues in a se­voters. back loans," said Schmuhl. 
rious way, according to Morris. 
"Given the setting and audi­The impact of the speech "will Kmiec disagreed, saying that ence, it's quite likely he will talk depend on which issues he talks the candidate will "give a typi­about young people getting in­about," said Sean Savage,cal Clinton stump speech with a volved in public service of one assistant political science few specific references to Notre kind or another," said Schmuhl. professor at Saint Mary's. ''If he Dame." 
"There are strong themes of talks about the economy or Clinton recognizes that youthful vigor in Clinton's educational reform so that it 
"Reagan democratic Catholics campaign," said Morris. There will be easier to get jobs and fi­have gotten into the habit of has been a focused effort to nancial aid for school." 
voting for Republican presi­
reach out to young voters who "I hope the speech will have dential candidates," said Gov­have drifted away, according to an impact on us {the University ernment professor David Leege, Morris. community)." said Morris. "I an expert on voting behavior. 
College campuses are impor­hope the speech will be a cata­"Some candidate has to be able tant to both candidates and are lyst to get political conversa­to attract them."
r frequently campaign stops, ac-tions going." 
Schmuhl agreed. "Implicit in
l 
' 
efforts of all the local agencies, Field north of the JACC, are re­works very well," said Johnson. served for the stadium media

Parking 
and other special guests of the White Field can be reached University. All other vehicles
continued from page 1 
using Cleveland Road to south­will be towed beginning at 6In addition, a special traffic bound Juniper Road, or by a.m. on Saturday morning. 
pattern will be used to increase Ironwood Road to westboundthe efficiency of parking the Douglas Road. Fans arriving on Normal parking arrange­14,500 vehicles expected to ar­the Indiana Toll Road should ments for students and faculty
rive. Beginning three hours 
use exit 7 2 on the west side of will change as well.
prior to kick-off, all roads lead­
South Bend or exit 82 at
ing to the University run one­Mishawaka. 
way toward the stadium. One hour after the game, all roads 
"If people come into this north 
are changed to run one-way 
traffic pattern on their own,away from the stadium. 
they will save a lot of time because the south lots will fill
Traffic control is provided by 
more quickly than they usually 
the Indiana State Police, St. 
do," said Johnson. 

Joseph County Police, South Bend Police, and University Se-Parking areas surrounding curity and Police. • the stadium, between Edison 
"Notre Dame's traffic pattern, Road and the JACC and Aero because of the cooperative 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
The position involves daily interaction with clients and consumers incorporating all aspects of advertising and marketing. 
Please submit a one-page personal statement or resume to Mike Hobbs by Tuesday, Sept 15. 
Contact Hobbs at 239-6900 for more information. 
Fall Break Seminars October 18-23, 1992 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR Servic;e learning at one of seven sites in the Appalachian region Student-directed serviceI reflection One-credit Theology NEW WOMEN, NEW CHURCH Explore the changing role of women in the Church, and related issues of service Experiential learning in Chicago at various sites, with women in social ministry One-credit Theology or Gender Studies WASHINGTON SEMINAR Poverty and Democracy i11 America: Wlzose Electimz? Direct Contact with politinl, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Includes service and political awareness opportunities One credit Theology  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Tuesday, Sept. 15, 1992  


Friday, September 11 , 1992 The Observer page 5 
Bush lays out economic plan with 1 percent tax cut 



STOP BY OR L\1.1. YOUR LOCAL PIZZ.\ fll T TO srr 1·p .~\' I\'11:R\'IE\\' TOO.\Y. 
0 Challenging. ffin work 0 Pay increa~ twire a year0 Opportunity to purcha-;e PepsiCo ~1ock 0 Child care discount<; ~ C..redit union 0 Great career opportuniti~ ~ Rcimhursemenl allowanu~ /'ioc fH'r ""PI 0 Paid \·acalion• ~ l\1cdic.al1ife benefit-;* 0 SharcPowcr lx1~·ing optioll';• 
' .\'o/1'/f•-rti•·~ fir-.t dUI ,(••mp/u1 n~r•nl 
YOU DO BELONG W!TH THE BEST! 
Volunteer. 


New for '92 
Play like 
a ChamJJion 
Today 

Spirit Towels! i 
i Catch the spirit and own a piece of history i 
! 

at the same time. A MUST have item! 
To get yoors just contact any meniJer of 
S. A. R. G. g,z
\:)~'\ '\)~ student Alt.rnni Relations Group J'q.rY 
~~· Also available at the Cb , Alumni Office -Main Building ii i.·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··--·--·----------·--·-----··-··-··--·--·--------------·--·----= 
MA & ITALIAN RESTAURANT Pizza & Pasta-Sandwiches-Appetizers25 Pizza ToQpings & I lb. burgersFree Dehvery to Campus SEPTEMBER SPECIALS:( expires 9/30/92) 
DINEJNONLY PJCKUPQNLY 20% off pizzas 
$1 off any 12• or 14• Pizza with this ad and $2 off t6• or ts• Pizza OrJy ..,w. Uti.s ad
==~·Student ID 
271..2055 
52303 Emmons Rd.

OPEN 
Georgetown Shopping Center
I lam, 10 pm 
(next to Club Shenanigan's) 


TUE VAllS/TV SIIIJP 
Hair Designers 
Say you saw us in The Observer 
Haircuts $6.00 with Student 1.0. 
277..Q057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 

Li111ousinc {-r Primfe Tnwsportafit11T Scrl'icc 
Av<1ildbk For Bu-,irll'~S & Social Engagcnwnts 
(2!9) 273-1234 ?cu {2!9} 271-0442 
P.O. Box 109 • Notre Dan1e, IN 46556-01 OY 
Very Reasonable Rates: 
$5.00 Anywhere within city limits $25.00 per hour Equipped with Color Tv, VCR and Stereo Reservations stro /y recommended 
the tax rate would be worth $5 a week-$261 a year-to a typical four-member family earning the median income of $43,000 and claiming itemized deductions. That represents a 6 1/2 percent reduction in the family's $3,909 tax liability, said spokesman Rich Myers. 
Bush's plan was unveiled as the White House struggled to explain the president's tax statements of a day earlier. 
A day after Bush told a New Jersey audience "I went along 
Right-to-Life plans protest of speech 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
Right-to-Life is planning to 
make its presence known at to­
day's campaign speech by 
Democratic presidential candi­
date Bill Clinton. 
According to Bill Keen, co­
president of the group, mem­
bers will hand out pamphlets 
to students, faculty and staff as 
they enter Stepan Center. The 
pamphlets will welcome 
Clinton but ask him to 
recognize rights of the unborn. 
Clinton, a declared pro­choice candidate, has supported a right to abortion throughout his political career. 
The College Republicans, another campus group opposed to Clinton, would not comment on whether they plan to protest during the speech or not. Mike Glastetter, vice-chair of the group, said, "I don't really care to talk about it at this point." 
The local Republican group, whose members will not be permitted to attend the speech, is not organizing any protest, a spokesperson said. 

Clinton on the issues 
A look at where Democratic presidential candidate Bill Clinton stands on the issues. 
Education 
Central to his plan is a new loan program that would allow all stu­
dents to borrow money regardless of family income. Students pay 
back the loans with later income or through a national service pro­
gram. Supports public school choice, but opposes vouchers for pri­
vate schools 
The Environment 
Seeks to raise car fuel efficiency to 45 miles per gallon. Favors in­
creasing the country's reliance on natural gas and investing more in 
the development of renewable energy sources. Wants to improve 
overall energy efficiency by 20 percent by the year 2000. 
Arkansas ranks 49th among the states, partly because its pollu­
tion control board is heavily influenced by industry. 
Abortion Supports abortion rights and a bill stopping states from restricting abortions. Signed law requiring those under 18 to notify a parent. 
The Economy Supports raising taxes on the wealthy and reducing them for the middle class. Sees job training and skills are key to growth and com­petitiveness. 
The Deficit 
Plans to save $300 billion and cut the deficit in half by 1996 by cut­ting spending, closing corporate tax loopholes, increasing taxes on the wealthy. Opposes a balanced budget amendment. 
Health Care ~auld create a national health care proposal to eventually provide unrversal coverage. Supports regulating insurance and drug indus­tries to hold down costs. 
Defense Favors a $100 billion cut over six years. Proposes putting the savings directly into domestic infrastructure. 
with one Democratic tax in­crease and I'm not going to do it again -ever, ever," presi­dential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater insisted that Bush was not repeating his famous broken pledge of 1988: "Read my lips -no new taxes." 
Battered by bad news in the polls and on the economy, Bush's newly repackaged eco­nomic plan was an attempt to deflect criticism that he hasn't focused enough attention on the economy. 
"I know that times have been difficult, very difficult, for many Americans," Bush told the De­troit Economic Club. 
He suggested his "agenda for change" was superior to that of Democratic challenger Bill Clinton, whom he trails in all major national polls. 
"The world that we knew as children, no matter your age, will never be the same," Bush said. "America will change ­that's our destiny. How it will change will soon be decided." 
DETROIT (AP) -President Bush on Thursday laid out a repackaged economic manifesto less than two months before Election Day, suggesting a 1 percent across-the-board tax cut would be possible if Congress followed his spending recommendations. 
Bush also proposed cutting the pay of federal officials mak­ing over $75,000 a year by 5 percent, saying "Americans have tightened their belts and so should better-paid federal workers." 
And he promised to slash spending at the White House by a third -if Congress would pare its own operating budget by as much. 
Bush set as "a grand goal" the nearly doubling of the nation's $6 trillion economy, to $10 trillion, "by the early years of the next century" -an ambitious target considering the slow economic growth of the past few years. 
Democratic presidential rival Bill Clinton quickly dismissed the proposals as "more of the same," adding up to big tax cuts for the rich, little for average wage-earners and harder times for Medicare recipients, disabled veterans and others receiving benefits likely to be cut to pay for the lower taxes. 
"We've tried this for 12 years," he said in a videotape beamed to TV stations. "Now, two months before the election, the president repackages it." 

The Treasury Department said a 1 percent reduction in 
--~' 
Friday, Septmeber 11, 1992
page 6 The Observer 


Grand jury alleges broad conspiracy in House Post Office investigation 

WASHINGTON {AP)-A fed­eral grand jury, signaling an expanded investigation of the House Post Office, charged Thursday there was a broad conspiracy between post office employees and "legislative of­ficials" to defraud the govern­ment. 
The three-count indictment named only one defendant: former House Post Office chief of staff Joanna O'Rourke. But it said she conspired "with other persons, known and unknown" to "perform personal and campaign services for members" of the House, in­cluding cashing checks. 
The indictment also, for the first time, revealed that the grand jury is investigating the 

The Observer/Pat McHugh 
House Post Office's delivery of

Join the club 
campaign checks written to aid

Missy Geary, Michelle Budd, and David Woods from the South Bend 
congressmen from city postal

Kiwanis stand in front of their table on the Fieldhouse Mall. The 
boxes to the Capitol complex. 

Circle K Club, a community service club, is attempting to form a 
Both federal law and House

chapter at Notre Dame. 
Senate panel denies money for air base 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A Se­nate committee on Thursday denied President Bush the money he wants to rebuild Homestead Air Force Base, as politics continued shaping ef­forts to ship federal aid to Hur­ricane Andrew's victims. 
Bush pledged to reconstruct the destroyed South Florida air base shortly after Andrew raked Florida and Louisiana last month. Homestead is a ma­jor local employer, and Bush's promise was seen as boosting his prospects in a state he badly wants to win on Election Day. 
But by a 12-8 vote, the Senate Appropriations Committee 
r~;:t~::-:-:,. -~ 
voted to strip $480 million for 
rebuilding Homestead from a
" 
package of $7.5 billion worth of loans and spending for the hurricane-stricken states. In its place, they provided just $26 million to demolish the base's remaining buildings and to be­gin planning its possible revival. 
"I don't think we should consider money for defense as a jobs program," said Sen. Harry· Reid, D-Nev., who sponsored 
Space shuttle 


launching flies, 
frogs and fish 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP} -Scientists from around the world Thursday fussed over space shuttle Endeavour's winged, web-footed and gilled passengers as NASA's count­down clocks ticked toward a weekend liftoff. 
The laboratory research mission, due to begin at 10:23 
a.m. Saturday, is a joint venture between NASA and Japan's space agency. 
Besides seven astronauts, in­cluding the first married couple in space, Endeavour will carry 180 Oriental hornets, 7,600 fruit flies, four South African clawed frogs, two Japanese carp and 30 fertilized chicken eggs. 
Israeli entomologist Jacob Ishay carefully sifted through about 2,000 hornets -all fe­male workers, no queens -in preparation of Friday's loading of animals into the shuttle. He chose those that laid the most eggs and were neat about doing it. 
the amendment killing the 
Homestead money. "This is 
ridiculous." 

The overall bill, approved by 
the committee 26-0, could go to 
the Senate floor by next week. 

Nine Democrats and three 
Republicans voted to remove 
the Homestead money, while 
three Democrats and five Re­
publicans voted to protect it. 

The vote could give Bush a 
political issue in South Florida if 
he persuades lawmakers to 
restore the funds and then 
takes credit for doing so. Sen. 
James Sasser, D-Tenn., warned 
that Bush might try to do just 
that after vetoing the entire 
disaster-relief bill. 

But several senators who 
voted to kill the Homestead -money seemed to have home­state politics in mind, not the presidential election. Some of them have had military bases 
closed in their own states. 

"I lost a base last year ... and 
the president cavalierly says 
we're going to rebuild Home­
stead," Sen. Dale Bumpers, D-
Ark., said in an interview. "When President Bush went down and said he'd rebuild Homestead, you're talking about politics of the rankest kind." 
Bush, House Democrats and now the Senate have each written their own hurricane-re­lief bills, and the rebuilding of Homestead is just one area where political gain may be won by one side or the other. 
The House measure has $400 million worth of food stamps, while Bush sought no such funds. The House also would provide $520 million to pay farmers whose crops were damaged, $200 million more than Bush's request. The Senate version matches the Bush request in these two areas. 
Reid and others complained that with the government shut­ting military bases all over the country, it made little sense to rebuild a base that a storm had demolished. By some estimates, it could cost close to $800 million to restore the base completely. 

rules prohibit delivering cam­paign checks to member offices and ban House employees from doing campaign work on gov­ernment time. 
House Republicans on a con­gressional task force charged in July that House Post Office employees ferried campaign donations for several years to the Capitol Hill offices of as many as 25 current and former lawmakers. 
The House voted to turn the allegations -which were not in a report by the task force's Democrats -over to the U.S. attorney's office. 
The conspiracy included use of a taxpayer-financed express mail account to send "personal items" to one lawmaker's home district, the indictment said. The lawmaker was not identified. 
The personal items were de­livered to the House Post Office "by the staff of the member, with the instruction that the items be sent by Express Mail," the indictment said. The post office is staffed by House patronage employees. 
A source close to the investi­gation, speaking only on condi­tion of anonymity, said the con­spiracy count against Ms. O'Rourke would be dropped as part of a plea agreement. 
One of her attorneys, Stephen Leckar, would not comment on that point but said Ms. O'Rourke would plead guilty to two misdemeanors in the indictment -misuse of public funds and embezzlement. Each carries a maximum pe.nalty of a year in prison and a $100,000 fine. 
"Ms. O'Rourke engaged in certain transactions which were inappropriate for a federal manager," he said in a joint statement with co-counsel G. Allen Dale. 
1 Hour Film Processing 

Across from University Park Mall 
t~~~~~ Special Student Offer 
D$1.00 off 12 exp. roll 0$2.00 off 24 exp. roll 0$3.00 off 36 exp. roll 02nd set of prints free with Student I. D. 
Hours: Mon ..Sat 9 .. 9 Sun 12 .. 5 272--6710 
Introducing.•. 

Complete LSAT review plus answers to the ten most important questions about law school! 
-All on a 3.5" disk! ~ For use with H~rcard on the Mac. cupad~~i~~iJ$50.ooi~--­
1 LawDisk, P.O. Bo:z: 571, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
1 
1Name School I IAddress 1 
Cbeck VISa MasterCard # I Signature of Customer --I I All actual LSAT questions within this work are used with the permission of Law I 1School Admission Services, Inc., Box 2000, Newtown, PA 18940, the copyright I Iowner. Law Services does not endorse this product. 1 
®convri12ht 1992 LawDisk .J
L 

Rooms With AView 
We have rooms located on the Saint Joe River in Mishawaka for all Notre Dame games 
Extra Large Rooms with Kitchenettes & Balconies Overlooking Kamm 's Island 



Center Motel 
"I look at the family, whether it's a nice family, a clean fam­ily," Ishay said. "If they can take care of themselves here it means they will be able to do it 
<119:1156-1501 
in space." 


-----~-------~-------------------~-­
Friday, September 11, 1992 The Observer page 7 
ANC setting tough conditions U.S. fliers intercept jet for more talks with de Klerk over Iraqi no-fly zone 
lENDER CODE: 817846 

rass Volleyball
Choose River Forest Bank for your Stafford, PLUS, SLS or Consolidation Loans and earn a rebate up to $2,000! 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) -ANC leaders said Thursday they were willing to meet with President F. W. de Klerk, but set tough conditions that have blocked previous bids to restart stalled political talks. 
The announcement at a news conference was the first indica­tion of a possible thaw in icy re­lations between the African National Congress and the white government since the ANC broke off talks in June to protest chronic violence in black townships. 
Both sides have accused each other of causing Monday's clash in the Ciskei black homeland in which troops opened fire on ANC protesters, killing at least 25 people and wounding nearly 200. 
De Klerk on Wednesday pro­posed a summit with ANC president Nelson Mandela to discuss the violence, saying further political talks were im­possible in the present climate of unrest. 
In response, ANC secretary­general Cyril Ramaphosa said Thursday that the ANC "was prepared to participate in a 
Flowers, plants & balloons 

Heaven & Earth 
143 Dixie Way South (31 North) (1/4 mile North of Notre DameJ 273-2212 
10% discount with Student I.D. 
nationwide mayoral and city council elections on Oct. 3, said Rep. Ulysses Guimaraes of the pro-Collor Brazilian Democratic 



TOTAL LOAN 

CASH TOTAL LOAN CASH AMOUNT* 
REBATE AMOUNT* REBATE 
Under S4,000 S10 $20,000-$24,999 S500 $4,000-$5,999 S25 $25,000-$29,999 $675 $6,000-$7,499 S50 $30,000-$34,999 $850 s7,500-$9,999 $100 $35,000-$44,999 $1,100 
S 1 0,000-S12,499 $200 $45,000-$54,999 $1,400 S12,500-S14,999 $275 $55,000-$64,999 S1,700 S15,000-S17,499 $350 $65,000 and above $2,000 S17,500-S19,999 $425 
•ca~h rebates are-paid after graduat•on and af1~ S full on-t1~ ~ymt'nts are rf'lade_ Rebates are based on inc• af balance outstand1ng at graduatiOn of all k>.ans obtai~~ from or conwlidated with Rrver Forest Bank •her August rl~l. Un~graduate borrowers may dt-fer rebat~ until thf"tr entire education is compl~led Offer ava.lable at qualtfitd schools 
onty. Please refer to redemptiOn c.ertrfKate for comp{ete terms and conditions 
RIVER FOREST BANK NEVER SELLS ITS STUDENT LOANS! 
To qualify for River Forest Bank's CASH BACK TO GRADUATES program, talk with your school's Financial Aid Adviser, call us toll-free 1-800-345-4325, or mail this form to the address provided below. 
;---------------------------------------------------------------, 
YES, I want to quality for a cash rebate on student loans! Please send me an application for: 
0 Stafford Loans O Supplemental Loan to Students 0 Parent Loan for 
0 Cash Back ConsolidatiOn loan Undergraduate Studenh 
NAME ---­
STREET ADDRESS 
SCHOOL 

L---------------------------------------------------------------J 
River Forest Bank 
Student Loan Processing Center 
P.O. Box 25586. Chicago. IL 60625-9998 
~ 
L.ENOfR

M"mbPr. FDIC. Equal Opporturu:v lRnder 
summit" between delegations 
led by Mandela and de Klerk. 
"However, such a summit 

must be preceded by thorough 
preparations ... as well as 
practical actions in relation to 
demands made by the ANC," 
Ramaphosa said following a 
meeting of the ANC leadership. 
He warned that the nation would have high expectations of such a meeting, and its success would be crucial to restarting political negotiations aimed at giving the vote to the black majority. 
"The failure of such a high­level meeting would take the country irretrievably back­wards," Ramaphosa said. 
He reiterated longstanding ANC demands for a compre­hensive ban on weapons in public and action against work­ers' hostels the ANC claims are used to launch attacks against its supporters, along with the release of political prisoners. 
A failure to agree on those is­sues has prevented new talks between the government and ANC since relations soured in June. 
Ramaphosa said ANC leaders 


also demanded the removal of 
Ciskeian leader Brig. Gen. Oupa 
Gqozo. 
Earlier Thursday, Foreign Minister Pik Botha warned that the government could take "coercive" steps if Gqozo failed to curb his forces. 
He said the government would meet with homeland leaders to ensure that security forces observe a peace accord outlining the way in which protests and other unrest must be handled to avoid bloodshed. 
Asked what the government would do if Gqozo ignored the prescribed steps, Botha said:­"We will take steps ... of a co­ercive nature." He declined to provide details. 
Ciskei is one of 10 black homelands created under apartheid as separate nations for blacks. Four of them, in­cluding Ciskei, are considered independent nations by the South African government, though no other country rec­ognizes their sovereignty. 
Ciskei and some other home­lands are allied with the gov­ernment and bitter foes of the ANC. 
Brazilian aide resigns, others may follow him 
BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) -A persuade Collor to resign. Offi­senior aide to President Fer­cials said Economy Minister nando Collor de Mello resigned MarcHio Marques Moreira and Thursday and observers said Justice Minister Celio Borja also his departure could lead other were close to abandoning the key Cabinet ministers to quit. president. 
But Collor won a small re­prieve when the Supreme Court The Supreme Court voted 7-1 granted him an extra week to to give Collor until Sept. 23 to defend himself against defend himself on corruption corruption charges that could charges before the Chamber of lead to his impeachment. Deputies. The president of the 
chamber, Rep. Ibsen Pinheiro, 
Jorge Bornhausen, Collor's had wanted Collor to present chief of staff and political coor­his case before next Tuesday. dinator, who left the govern­ment Thursday, had tried to The court's ruling could make 
it difficult for the impeachment 
vote to be held before 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Two 
U.S. Air Force F-16s inter­cepted what appeared to be an Iraqi F-1 Mirage fighter jet early Thursday after it entered the zone established to protect the Kurds in northern Iraq, a Pentagon spokesman said. 
"There was no indication of hostile intent" on the part of the Mirage, said Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams. 
The aircraft, which had crossed three miles north of the 36th parallel, "quickly re­treated south," Williams said, adding that there was "no ex­change of fire" during the ac­tion. 
The spokesman said such in­cursions have happened be­fore, citing one incident in April, but officials were prob­ing whether Thursday's event was "inadvertent or not." 
The aircraft appeared to have been in the process of turning south as it was inter­cepted, Williams said, adding that he could not be sure of the its exact actions at the time. 
The spokesman said he did 
Tournament 
Sponsored by the Men's V' Ball Club 
This Sunday! September 13th 
2 vs 2 $5/team (male, female or both)4 vs 4 $8/team (at least one female) 
Registration accepted at White Field until play begins 9 a.m. Sunday. $2 late fee after 7 p.m. Saturday. 
Prizes from Outpost Sports, Domino's and morel 
Call for info. or registration: 
Chris 277-5415 
Movement Party. 
Recent surveys show 77 per­cent of Brazilians want Collor out of office. Collor believes congressmen will find it hard to vote for him if they believe their votes could backfire against their parties in the elections. 
The Supreme Court is ex­pected to rule next week on a separate issue, Pinheiro's de­cision to hold an open im­
peachment vote. · · · · 
The president's strategists want a secret vote so that law­makers could vote against im­peachment without public em­barrassment. 
Laws from 1950 and 1988 give conflicting instructions on whether the vote should be public. 
not know whether there was any contact between the U.S. fliers and the Mirage. 
Williams said allied officials are not certain it was an Iraqi fighter, since others in the coalition protecting the Kurds fly such aircraft, and that the incident was still under inves­tigation. · 
The Mirage was spotted by a 
U.S. Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) that had been monitoring the northern portion of Iraq, Williams said. 
The Mirage had crossed the line drawn by allies attempting to protect the Kurdish popula­tion from further persecution by Saddam Hussein's forces, 
Saddam brutally repressed an uprising by the Kurds in the weeks following the end of fighting in the Persian Gulf War. 
The spokesman noted that there have been no "confirmed" contacts between 
U.S. and Iraqi fliers over the southern "no fly" zone south of the 32nd parallel in southern Iraq, which has been in· effect since Aug. 27. 
~-.~----~ ---~---~~----------------------...-----------­
1 
~~; 
t, 
~ . I 
' 
' 
I 




It 
It 

• 








255-8080 


-----------------------------,
~ 
l . 
I 
I Just 10 minutes from Notre Dame­1/2 block East of Grape on Edison 

G). 
<•e 
Edison 
Ill 
Q 
! 
0 
z 



Mastel!:ard
Hurry! -Offer expires 9-31-92 
'"Cash price $198•-Umited 2-year member.ihip-Coupon must be preeented tobe valid i i 
l 
•
• 
~. 
I 
1t~ ~ I \ i ' 
J 




page 9

Friday, September 11, 1992 The Observer 
Companies pooling money for care of children, elderly 
NEW YORK (AP) -Eleven of the nation's leading companies announced to~ay they have committed $25.4 million in an unprecedented collaborative effort to provide programs to care for employees' children and elderly relatives. 
The initiative. billed as the largest of its kind in American business history. reflects the growing role of women in the labor force and the absence of government aid for working couples with dependents. 
"It's a bold step for American corporations," said Dr. Bradley Googins, director of Boston University's Center on Work and Family. "It not only tries to rectify the problems of the inadequate government resources for dependent care, but says companies will play a more significant role in the community." 
The project, called American Business Collaboration for Quality Dependent Care. will be funded by 137 companies. The 11 blue*chip corporations, however, form the core and will provide the bulk of the resources. 
Companies leading the effort are: International Business Machines Corp., American Express Co., Exxon Corp., Eastman Kodak Co., Xerox Corp,, Travelers Corp., Johnson & Johnson, Amoco 

jewelry, clothing, & accessories GREAT SELECTION, GREAT PRICES! 
StoP bY SEPTEMBER 7-12 
to Jook, buy, 1o a.m. -5 p.m. or visit... 1~1~~0~== 
$1 Raffle for $60 in merchandise. Proceeds go to St. Thomas Lutheran Church for project in Guatemala 

Ice Cream 
Now being served at your favorite campus restaurants and 
eateries! 

My Daddy Makes The Best Ice Cream For 
the  
#­{<~  t\NG ot  ~  ~ ~ 

Notre Dame
.... 


Corp., the Allstate unit of Sears Roebuck and Co., Motorola Inc. and American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 
Funding will go toward 300 programs in 44 communities in 25 states and the District of Columbia. New programs will be created and existing ones expanded. 
Programs will range from training for dependent care providers to the developmen and expansion of child-can: facilities and school vacatior programs. 
"This is not just good cor· porate citizenship," Googins said. "Companies realize that if they want a healthy and productive work force these are issues they must address." 
Labor Department research shows that at least 57 percent of women with children under six work outside the home, against 12 percent in 1950. By the end of the century, about two-thirds of new workers are expected to be women. and 75 percent of them will become pregnant during their working years. 
In addition, about 40 percent of workers expect to be responsible for their aging parents in the next five years, according to the New York­based Families and Work Institute. 
House pushing for family leave bill 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The House on Thursday sent to the White House an emergency leave bill that Democrats said would boost "family values." But the vote fell far short of the two*thirds majority needed to override a certain veto by President Bush. 
The House approved the measure 241-161 after a debate in which some Republicans said the timing of the measure was a "cynical election*year ploy" to embarrass Bush, who has used 
Class 
continued from page 15 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
2 HOTEL ROOMS AVAILABLE MICH game 9/11-9/12 in Elkhart. Call Will at 716-383­7439 or 716-288-7439 
GOOD LUCK!! 1992 N.D. Cheerleaders, Wagz, & Coach Love, Broccoli & Yo 
RIDE NEEDED: Thursdays late afternoon/early evening to Castle Point. Will pay. Eileen 283-2385 
T-SHIRTS!!! 
"HERE COME THE IRISH," but "wear"" can I find the schedule? Call 283-1693 
ATTN: Thank you: 

*EE Dept., especially my T.A.'s & profs 
• 
Paul Go, consultants, & the Eng. computer lab 

• 
Dr. Cohn & the DCRL lab members *ISO 

• 
Army R.O.T.C. 

• 
Boxing Club 

• 
Gymnastics Club 


• 
Cheerleading TEAM, Training Room, & Athletic Dept. 

• 
Career & Placement Office 

• 
and everyone who has given me advice, been my friend & shared meaningful conversations & experiences with me. You, my Notre Dame family, have made significant contributions to my learning & development , resulting in an incredible experience & 4 years of great memories. Keep in touch. 


"family values" as a theme in his reelection campaign. 
A top White House aide, ask­ing not to be named, said "there is no doubt" Bush will veto the bill, as he did with similar legislation in the Congress. 
The measure would guaran­tee many American workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid family leave a year to care for new* born or sick children, spouses and ailing parents. 
As Thursday's vote neared, White House aides suggested to 
Permanent address: 41 07 Suwanee Dr. LaGrange, KY 40031 (502) 241-4718 
Set your goals high, be positive, take care,& good luck! 
God Bless, Matthew Raulston 
I brake for all animals except wolverines The shark is back in plaid 
WANTED: Dedicated students to fill 2-hour evening shifts on Mon.-Thur. for COUNSELINE. If interested in providing this community service, call239-7336. 
**'*1 Michigan GA for sale-call Diane x4059. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KEVIN!!! I'm so glad you didn't make me· hold my breath for too long! Have a great day! -amy 
TOP TEN LIST FROM THE HILTON IN CHICAGO... 
1. 
Feel it, are there any chunks? 

2. 
Do NOT ride the elevator. 3.That would not be good. 


4. 
Chicle! 

5. 
Body Shots all around! 

6. 
GAME ON!! 

7. 
I went to bed pissed off &woke up pissed on! 

8. 
I brought my cup! 

9. 
Group picture on the bed-NOT' 


1o. This is going to be another one of those stupid TOP TEN lists in the Observer! 
Thanks for a great Weekend!!!! 
TOP JIMMY'S 22nd BIRTHDAY QUOTES: I'LL EAT THAT@#$%"&! PAPER! HEY! HEY!. .. WHO THE HELL IS THAT? BECAUSE I HAVE COUTH, I WILL NOT BOY SCOUT LOOK AT THAT LEG ... ATROPHY! WITNESS AS I BOY SCOUT A IS IN THE HA, THE HOU, THE HOUSE! DON'T QOUTE ME, CUZ I'M LEGIT... 
KELSEY,COULD THIS BE THE FIRST OF MANY OR MANY OF THE FIRST..WHAT? oh shut up and don't be a pima!! 

WE'RE SHELLING OuT 
If you like prime rib and seafood, your ship has come in at the Wharf! Choose from four delicious combinations. 
• 
Prime Rib and Snowcrab Legs • Prime Rib and Shrimp Scampi 

• 
Prime Rib and Almond Shrimp • llb. of Snowcrab Legs 


Each of these dinners includes coleslaw, vegetable of the day, and choice of potato or rice. And it's all just $12.95! 
So, don't you think it's prime time you set sail for the Wharf? But hurry, it's only for a limited time. 
300 E. Colfax at the River 234-4477 
Capitol Hill that Bush might en­tertain using several hundred million dollars in tax incentives to encourage small employers to provide family leaves. 
A senior official, speaking only on the condition of anonymity, said Bush would like to provide the tax break to companies with up to 500 em­ployees. Such a program could be financed for under $500 million, the official said. 
SHORT ON CASH ? 
Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30 • 12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 
30 day loans up to $250 @ 1 % interest 
MARGE 
To the Dillon Frosh who never returned perfume from scavenger hunt to PE: I know where you live. Be afraid. 
T-SHIRTS!!! A milion shirts say "Notre Dame," but 
how many have you seen with the FIGHT SONG? Call 283-1693 
NO DRAFT DODGERS FOR PRESIDENT!!! 
NO DRAFT DODGERS FOR PRESIDENT!!! 
Happy Birthday SEANA Z. Learn to Cha-Cha like Goofy Have some YoCream for J & A And have a@#!&' awesome day!!! 
Love, Your Favorite Ducks 2 Mom, Mud, Di, & AI 
Do you feel stressed-out, tense? Do you 
feel like everything is Building Up inside of you? If so call LIZ at x2184; she'll make you feel real good!!! 
Gailin, Ki, & Julio Thanks for being the best roommates ever. You guys are the greatest. 
T 
Hey Anner-Banner -I hope the concert was tons of fun without me (is that possible?) 
Love, your jet setting friend 
----·--­

r -------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~--------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, September 11, 1992 
The Observer P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley News Editor........•..••..•....•.David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor.••••••.......••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager •..... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor .••.......... Michael Scrudato Production Manager ...•••..•Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor........••• Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ......•.............. Dan Shinnick 5alnt Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller••..•....•..••..••.••••.David Beliveau  
 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged.  Vow Wo,_.]d you Accept from  

Young voters gain attention, must take responsibility 
It's not surprising that Bill Clinton is speaking at Notre Dame today. In doing so. he joins many pOliti­cians-including George Busn-who see Notre Dame as a bonanza of national media exposure and an oppor­tunity to address some of America's finest undergradu­ates. 
By the November election. both candidates will have 
stumped here. although Bush's May commencement ad­dress was not dubbea an official campai~ stop.
In a race filled with debate about "family values" and "trust." a Catholic institution like Notre Dame is cer­tainly a place candidates would like to .hold up as an example.
The University presents itself as a place of honor. tradition. community and excellence-and the politi­cians hope that viewers around the country agree. 
The Clmton team picked a prime time to visit. What better way to associate himself with the Notre Dame mystique than to stage a rally at the start of football season? And that his speech will be filtered to Wolver­ines in the area certainly can't hurt Clinton's chances in Michigan either. 
Bes1aes the national exposure. though. Clinton chose Notre Dame because it allows him the opportunity to address one of his primary target groups-younger voters. 
By addressing students at Notre Dame, as Bush, Jerry Brown and Patrick Buchanan have done, Clinton sends a message that he is the candidate of a new generation.
That tlie Clinton visit is limited to students {and fac­ulty), however, suggests that a stronger political weight is being placed upon our shoulders. It is the responsi­bility to do more than talk about the political process. It is the responsibility to become a part of the political 
process.
The Observer will do its part to help, by providingdaily coverage of the issues that are shaping the cam­paign. But more than reading or listening or debating.the responsibility lies in young people's ability to make what is shaping up to be a difficult decision. 
DOONESBURY 
i] 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Right to Life addresses Clinton 
Editor's note: The following is an open letter to Bill Clinton: 
Welcome to the University of of Notre Dame in our 150th year. We are very proud of our Roman Catholic heritage. 
We have an expression here at Notre Dame: "Their blood is in the bricks." 
By this we mean we give honor to all those who have gone before us who have sacri­ficed to make this place possi­ble. The sacrifices of our clergy. our celibate laity and our fathers and mothers were loving choices to give us life. 
We gratefully acknowledge their choices as we welcome you to Notre Dame. 
Yet, Governor Clinton, we are grieved and disheartened as we witness another kind of sac­rifice going on, the sacrifice of pre-born citizens of our land who may not be old enough for their screams to be heard by us, but who certainly feel the pain and whose pain is felt by the almighty God. 
The bricks of American society are being soaked in the blood of pre-born children. Many of your political allies are using the rhetoric of choice to justify this slaughter of our pre-born citizenry. 
Mr. Clinton. have you really considered their cries? We ask you to consider the mothers who are exploited by the abor­tion industry. 
In advocating the Freedom of Choice Act, you are encourag­ing Americans to take what seems like the easy way out of a difficult situation. Do you not realize that the passage of this law will increase sexually transmitted diseases and post­abortion trauma? Americans need to be challenged by their leadership to put people first, Governor Clinton, especially in the womb, where life is most threatened today. 
We beg you in the name of God and human decency to open your heart to the needs of our pre-born brothers and sisters and to listen to their cause as explained by your fellow Democratic governor, Robert Casey of Pennsylvania. 
Mr. Clinton, we are praying that you may see the true hu­manity of our fellow pre-born human beings, and that you will adjust your position to reflect a 
humane stance. 
Claire Johnson Bill Keen ND/SMC Right to life Randy Raciti, ND '83 Gus Zuehlke, NO '80 
Notre Dame Alumni for life 

Sculptor responds to removal of artwork 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to the letter of Sept. 3, 1992 from William A. Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College. 
The expression of sympathy for the destruction of a sculp­tural work has been adequately expressed by the entire com­munity of Saint Mary's in a compassionate and responsible manner. 
The letter from William A. Hickey did not address the issue of the removal of three pieces of sculpture without attempting to obtain verbal or written permission, or consulting with me in any manner before ordering the removal to a shed for their own safety. 
I was never contacted by Dr. Hickey or any other officer of the college regarding the re­moval of the sculptures. I was made aware after the order was completed. 
When I addressed the prob­lem to a senior officer and to Dr. Hickey, I was told verbally, that it was now a campus issue. 
The work was contracted and agreed to be exhibited out of doors with adequate security. 
They were not able to secure and protect the sculptures. That relates to me the inability to protect any person or thing on campus. 
The wide range of opinions and feelings expressed about the sculptures are very reward­ing.· 
The removal of the sculptures by order of Dr. Hickey in the manner that it was carried out was not courageous. 
My work has been insulted, abused and damaged by the Administration with no attempt privately or publicly to resolve the problem. 
Marcia Kaplan Sculptor Chicago, II Sept. 1 0, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

·j
t. 
'Decide exactly what you have to achieve. Do you want to help people or do you want to be powerful?' 
Mario Cuomo 
Next time, inhale, then submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 

~ 
Viewpoint
Friday, September 11 , 1992 page 11 
Are we talking 'obscene' or 'Art-with-a-capital-A'? 
"OK, how about this, roomie. You're sitting in class, and sud­denly the professor dims the lights and flashes on the wall a picture of a naked man. We're talking frontal view." 
"That's easy-totally inappro­priate." "Even if it's Michelangelo's David?" 
"Not fair. That's different." 
"What's different? That now we're talking Art-with-a-capi­tal-A?" 
"Yes." 
"How you're going to draw the line on that one I don't know. Who decides what's art and what's not?" 
"Experts. Or the community." 
"Big difference. Besides, who gets to decide who the experts are? The 'expert' experts? And who gets to call themselves 'the community?'" 
"Look. In tough cases, I'll grant you it's hard to make a decision. But you and I both know that if it's a Michelangelo it's Art." 
Suspicious but friendly side­long glance. 
"OK, I'll give it to you." 
"You're so generous, Kelly." 
"Thank you." Quick sip of coffee. "But now suppose that some of your fellow students start a petition arguing that they're offended by this Michelangelo guy. They go to the dean, maybe get their par­ents in on it." 
"What do they want? A 'conservative arts' education?" 
"For starters, let's say they insist on their right to be able to pass Art History without having to look at what they consider to be obscene pictures. What do you say to them if you're the dean?" 
"Let's see. You know, I heard the dean's office was looking for me the other day." 
Bemused grin. 
"OK. First, I call the profes­sor in for a one-on-one. What's the scoop on this Michelangelo guy, I ask. Then, when I'm sat­isfied that the dude is pretty important for the class, I get everybody together for a big pow-wow-students, profes­sors-uh, is it OK if I leave the parents out of it?" 
"Why not? I'm feeling extra generous tonight." "So we have this nice big dia­logue. Let the students voice their complaints. Let the prof explain. Students respond, prof responds." 
Me? I play, you know, the Socratic role. Eventually, a 
Andrew Cutrofello Subterranean Homesick Poli­tics 
happy conclusion is reached, a fitting result for an institution committed to the dialogical life of the mind. Piece of cake. Speaking of which, pass me a doughnut." 
"Here. Piece of cake, huh? Might not be as easy as you make it sound. Suppose both sides refuse to budge?" 
"If push comes to shove, I could always just let the stu­dents drop the course." 
"But say they're not happy with that. Suppose they don't want this kind of stuff on cam­pus, period. Besides, some of them are second-semester se­niors who need a good grade for grad school. And they insist that they should be able to ace the course without having to be subjected to offensive smut." 
"Kelly, Kelly. Michelangelo?'' "So make it Mapplethorpe. Does it matter?" 
"OK, look. Suppose I tell the prof to go easy on the students, just test them on artists who do clothed bodies." 
"Fine. But now the professor refuses. Why should these stu­dents be allowed to dictate what counts as legitimate content for the course?" 
"Kind of like being offended by differentials and insisting on the right to pass calculus with­out them." 
"Exactly." Last dregs of cof­fee. Quiet time for thoughtful doughnut munching. 
"OK, roomie, so let me turn the tables on you. Prof brings in copies of some hard-core porn magazine depicting vio­lence against women." 
"What's the angle?" 
"God, does it matter??" 
"Well, I'd have to know more of the context. If we're talking psycho sexist, I censor the bastard. On the other hand, if a case can be made that this is a serious learning experience, maybe I feel differently." 
Granted, that in itself is going to be royally debated. But I can imagine situations in which that action might be defended. Say in some sociology class on deviant behavior for instance." 
"What are you saying, Kelly? Anything goes?" 

"No way. Like I said, if the context is inappropriate, I'd act in a minute. I just think it's 
dangerous to draw absolute 
lines without taking into ac­
count the circumstances." 
"Yeah, I can see what you're 
saying. Like the students who 
got that petition together to get 
those sculptures ofT of campus 
before they even bothered to 
talk to anybody in the Art De­
partment about what was going 
on." 
"Right. Which is not to say I'd 
fault them entirely. Hey, at 
least they were taking a stand 
on something. But wouldn't it 
have been better all around if 
everybody could have tried 
finding out what the story was 
before making absolute de­
mands?" 
"Uh oh, we'd better get going. When you get to preaching, Kelly, I know it's time to close down this doughnut joint." 
"Mary Sue-did you say close down the doughnut joint? Are you saying we should start a petition? You know, I never have liked that lurid picture of the chocolate eclair in the win­dow..." 
Andrew Cutrofello is a pro­fessor of philosophy at Saint Mary's College. His columns appear every other Friday. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear Editor: 
Ancient and mysterious for centuries, the land which is now Pakistan has attracted scholars and mystics, adven­turers and mercenaries. 
Up its craggy defiles have climbed such warriors as Alexander the Great and Genghis Khan, in search of plunder and glory. More peacefully, its cities of Harappa and Moanjodaro were at the heart of the Indus Valley Civilization. 
Modern Pakistan, born in 194 7 out of the ashes of Impe­rial India, has inherited the beauties of its ancient past. Physically a dramatic country, it boasts eight of the World's ten highest peaks, including the breath of-taking K2.H of white water. 
Its landscape is immensely varied ranging from cool green mountain valleys to vast expanses of desert, from snow clad mountains, to fertile irrigated plains. 
Pakistan was the center of three great civilizations. The Indus Valley Civilization flour­ished 4000 years ago, and was the equal of Egypt of Pharaohs and Mesopotamia when Baby­lon was at its height. 
Two of the ancient cities of the Indus, Moanjodaro in Sind and Harappa in southern Punjab, reveal the way of life of this remarkably advanced civilization. 
Pakistan will always be proud of its four provinces, namely Sind, Punjab, Baluchistan and North-West Frontiers, for their rich heritage and culture. A whole is composed of its parts and the beauty and health of a part is always conducive to the health and beauty of the whole. 
It is in this light that all provinces are trying to cognise and develop their culture. The great bond which unites all the provinces of Pakistan is the le­gacy of the Indus Valley Civi­lization. 
While Lahore, a great Moughal city, is the capital of Punjab, Peshawar, on the north­west is a city out of the Arabian nights, with noisy and colorful bizarres. Karachi, the capital of Sind, is the biggest city of the country and the major port. Quetta is enclosed by dramatic mountains of Baluchistan. 
Pakistan's new capital, Islamabad, represents the modern face of this developing nation of 92 million people. But Pakistan remains a largely rural society with 75 percent of its population living in rural areas. 
The most traditional costume, a shulwar kameez, worn by most Pakistani women, cover­ing their arms and legs, and with dupatta, or large scarf, worn over the head or around the neck. 
Folk arts and crafts of our culture are things made by ar­tisans and craftsmen in rural areas, to earn their livelihood. Folk arts and crafts represent the "real art" of the people. 
Real arts and crafts are closely related to the realities of life, the actual needs of the people. Utility is the essential characteristic of folk arts and crafts. Among the fine folk arts may be counted rural architecture, poetry, songs, music, and dances. 
Pakistan is also a rapidly growing economy in the field of manufactured items. Cheap labor costs and skilled man­power give the products an edge in quality and price. 
Both the government and business sectors ensure that only goods manufactured according to international standards and gradations are exported from Pakistan. 
You can witness the combina­tion of folk arts, crafts and a glimpse of manufactured items, today in the ISO lounge of LaFortune at the grand Pak­istani exhibition. 
Shabnam Shallwanl Graduate Student 
Sept. 9.199~ 
Lose the 'buck-fifty' patches and bring back the stripes I 
Dear Editor: 
We, the football fans of Notre Dame, have noticed two very disturbing, and obviously con­nected trends over the past two years of Irish football. 1) No undefeated home football slates. 2) Trendy designs in the end zones. 

Much progress has been made towards eliminating problem number one: having the top recruiting class in the nation, the decision of Rick Mirer to remain in school, and of course, the removal of Gary Darnell as defensive coordina­tor. 
As for problem number one, back in the day (1988), the end zones at the stadium were adorned with the vintage white diagonal stripes, which were holdovers from the early years of Rockne and the Four Horsemen. 
In recent years, Notre Dame has bowed to the evils of mod­ern age with he appearance of such things as Rollerblades, the technological monster that is the DeBartolo building, and the heinous, trendy designs in the end zones. 
In 1990, the end zones were littered with the interlocked ND symbol, the direct result of which were two home losses to Stanford and Penn State. 
Last year we were forced to stomach the sesquicentennial, or "buck-fifty" patches beyond each goal line, which led to the heartbreaking defeat at the hands of the Volunteers of Tennessee. 
We, the students of Notre Dame, are tired of being em­barrassed on native ground. This madness must cease! The solution is obvious: Bring Back the Stripes! 
The rumor mill is churning and word has it that the "buck­fifty" patches will be back this year. We cannot allow this monstrosity to take place. We must hand together for our right to the stripes and an un­defeated season. Without them, we are doomed. With them, we will surely march onward to victory. 
Cullen Hegarty Keith Nicholson Chris Duba Kyle Sanders 
Sept. 5, 1992 


1 
i 
~ 


-~·· ·-­

SEPTEMBER 11-13 
weekend calendar 
.,-.. 
MUSIC 
Club Shenanigans, P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend, 10p.m. Twist & Shout, Sweet 69, 9:30 p.m. . Mishawaka Midway Tavern (810 W. 4th St.), Bob, 
9:30p.m. 
EVENTS 
Bill Clinton policy address, Stepan Center, 1 p.m. 
saturday 
Club Shenanigans, P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend, 10 p.m. Twist & Shout, Sweet 69, 9:30 p.m. Mishawaka Midway Tavern, Bob, 9:30 p.m. 
EVENTS 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan, 12:30 p.m. Notre Dame Today (copies autographed by Lou Holtz), Varsity Shop, JACC 
s 

I',~; EVENTS Grass Volleyball Tournement, Stepan Field, 9 a.m. 
'· 
·, ..' _., ·. 
FRIDAY' 

; Madame Bova!Y., Snite Museum. 7;15 & 9:45p.m. White Men Cant Jump, Cushing Auditorium,I 8 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST ~r.t', Twin Peaks, 7 & 9:40 p.m.
~:..;..:~.·· 
Honeymoon in Vegas, 7:20 & 9:20 p.m. Christopher Cotumbus: The Discovery,
7 &9:30p.m. A League ofThelr Own, 7 &9:30 p.m. 
l 
~ 
Howard's End, 8 p.m Death Becomes Her, 7:40 & 9:50p.m.
I 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST Pet Cemetary Two, 7:40 & 9:45 p.m. Out on a Limb, 7:25 & 9:15p.m . 
•I . 
Wind, 7:00 & 9:30 p.m. 
I 
SATURDAY
..·~.. \. 
Ma~ame Bovary, Snite Museum, 7:15 & 9:45 
~~ White Men Can1 Jump. Cushing Auditorium, 
8 & 10:30 p.m. 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST & WEST 
See Friday's schedule 
Visitors explore 
attractions of 
Bendix Woods 
By BILL FEKRAT Accent Writer 
Throughout the fall and winter, Bendix Woods County Park offers unique activities for adventurous college students. 
Hayrides are popular in the autumn months. Beginning this weekend, people can take nighttime rides through the park, and afterwards enjoy sitting by a campfire in one of the parks shelters. Public rides are offered every weekend through the first week of November. During the week, groups can reserve their own time slots. 
On October 22 and 23, the hayrides take place in conjunction with a hike through the woods for Halloween Phantasy, a special program which includes characters who share ghost stories and woodland lore. 
One of the park's fall educational activities will include the Reins of Life Living History Festival on October 3 and 4. Traders, trappers and other re-enactors will demonstrate life in an early 1800s campground. 
In the winter months, the park offers recreational activities like cross-country skiing and a popular inner-tubing slope. The slope is lighted for nighttime use, and can be reserved in advance for special parties. Cross-country skiing lessons and ski rentals are available on the grounds of the park. 
Bendix Woods is open for the public everyday to use its nature center, picnic grounds, and extensive hiking and exercise trails. The park has over five miles of trails; it is one of the few hilly sites in the county. 
Bendix Woods is nationally recognized because of its unusual configuration. When viewed from above, the pine trees spell out "STUDEBAKER", after the original owner of the property. 
Admission is free on weekdays, but there is an admission for each car on weekends and holidays through the end of September. 
DIRECTIONS: Bendix Woods County Park is located in New Carlisle, IN, west of South Bend. From campus. take US 31 south into the downtown area and turn right on Western Ave. Take Western Ave. straight for about 13 miles; signs will indicate the entrance to the park. 
PHONE: 654-3155 
Potato Creek offers apeaceful escape 
By JENNIFER GUERIN Assistant Accent Editor 
Imagine 3,840 acres of water, land, trees, fresh air, starlight, and wild animals, only a half an hour from campus. 
For a parking fee of only $2, visitors can spend a day at Potato Creek State Park, where they can take advantage of all these attractions, and more. One of Indiana's most beautiful spots, the park is open year-round. Inside its gates are phenomenal bicycle and hiking trails, nature displays. and a bird-watching window at the nature center. 
Bicycle trails around the 300 acre man-made lake are paved for visitors who wish bring their own bikes or rent them from the park at a price of $2.50 per hour. The swimming beach at the lake closed on Labor Day, but rowboats, canoes and paddleboats can be rented throughout September, from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on saturday and Sunday. 
I 
t is a cool Fall evening, and once again the same popular watering hole he gCJ trying to get from the front door to th nothing short of the Jaws of Life will ge~ crammed into a space the size of a dorm r coughing fit while his whole body vibrate; "Brown-Eyed Girl." Joe thinks longingly to ~ do around here on the weekend." 
For all the "Joe Domers" who want someth same places week after week: consider ta~ nature trails available not only on the Notr also in and around St. Joseph county. Co options in Hoosier/and consists ofmore than 

No guided tours are available, but detailed maps of the grounds are available at the main gate. Both casual walkers and avid hikers will appreciate the three trails running through Potato Creek's fields and forests. The shortest trail is one mile long; there are also two and two and a half mile trails. The trails overlap each other at various points for those who prefer to extend their tour of the grounds. 
Picnic areas dot the park, and a playground area is located near one of the parking lots. Potato Creek also has 287 Class A campsites on the premisses, which groups may rent out for $9 per night. 
DIRECTIONS: Take US 31 South (the Toll Road) to State Road 4. Take a right on State Road 4(west). The entrance for Potato Creek State Park will be visible after approximately 4 miles. 
PHONE: (219)656-8186 

' ' 
page 13 

Joe Domer finds himself crammed inside es to three times a week. He has been r bar for the last forty-five minutes but him th:ough the crowd of 400 p~ople 'JOm. Czgarette smoke sends him into a :_to the..band's 2000 decibel version of lmself, There must be something else to 
~g a little different from going out to the mg advantage of the various parks and ~Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. but rztrary to popular belief, entertainment Chicago. the dunes and bars. bars, bars ... 

Ranch welcomes students to "horse around" 
By JENNIFER GUERIN 
Assistant Accent Editor 

F~ank and Li~da Bennett are very happy with thmr latest busmess endeavor. and will be even happier if Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students take advantage of the opportunities they provide at their ranch in Mishawaka. 
Sundance Ranch, which opened for a short period of time last year and then officially re­opened this summer, remains one of the best-kept entertainment secrets in the area. 
For a small price, the Bennett family will gladly share their rented land with students looking for something different to do on the weekend. 
"My horses aren't going anywhere," said Frank Bennett, "(they're] just standing around waiting for people to ride them." Bennett, a native Hoosier who has been riding all his life, said that Sundance Ranch is a relaxing and wonderful way to do what he loves. 
Amateur riders should not doubt for a moment if they belong at Sundance. When asked if new riders hopping on his horses make him nervous, Bennett answered, "That's only natural for people who have never ridden before. It's fun." 
Located on Fir Road. the ranch covers an expanse of 55 acres. Guided tours through the trails on the property, which last for one hour, are available for $16. 
No riding experience is necessary for these tours, but lessons are available at $22.50 an hour for those guests who are so inclined. 
For $150, groups may take an authentic hayride, pulled by horses, into the fields and forests of Sundance property. If desired, the groups may ride for a half an hour, then stop and picnic around a campfire. Mr. Bennett will return later to gather th~ crew and take them back to the starting point. 
Sundance Ranch's gates remain open until the weather forces them to close. The Bennett's current plan to remain open well into October or November, unless a surprise snowstorm (not an impossibility for Indiana during the autumn months) hits them. 
Call in advance to check availability and changes due to weather. 
DIRECTIONS: US 31 North to Cleveland Road. Go east on Cleveland; this road will run into Route 23 near the UP Mall. After the mall, take a right o!lto Fi~ Hoad (south}. After through three stop stgns, Sundance Ranch is located at 55555 Fir Road. 
PHONE: (219}255-2940 


But wait . • . there's more 
C/1YPARKS 
Howard Park: Walkways along St. Joseph River, ice skating rink. Jefferson Blvd., dow­town South Bend. 
Leeper Park: Lighted tennis courts, fishing, rose garden, playground, baseball and football fields. picnic area. Michigan Street and St. Joseph River, north of downtown. 
Merrifield Park: Basketball, tennis courts, sand volleyball. Olympic-sized swimming pool, ice-skating. 1000 E. Mishawaka Ave., Mishawaka. 
Potawatomi Park: Tennnis, swimming, base­ball, picnic and play areas. Botanical gardens and zoo. Mishawaka and Greenlawn. South Bend. 
OTHER AITRACTIONS 

Riverwalk: Parks, restaurants, specialty shops, fishing sites, along 8 mile path. Follow's St. Joseph River from Veteran's Memorial Park on Northside Blvd. to Leeper Park, South Bend. 
Beaver Ridge Family Camping: 65777 Maple Road. just east of Potato Creek. 784-8532. 
Mini Mountain Campground: 32341 State Road 2, New Carlisle. 654-3307. -~ 
Kensington Riding Center: Lessons, Training, Boarding. Shows. 291-0975. 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
Acting in violation of all known laws regarding the trafficking of goofiness and wit, They Might Be Giants thrilled a near-full house at Stepan Center last night, and almost completely conquered the cavernous building's acoustical problems. 
They Might Be Giants, a Brooklyn duo backed up by three other musicians, played material ranging from the esoteric "Boat of Car," from their 1986 self-titled debut, to their most recent, pop­oriented efforts, such as "I Palindrome I" and "Birdhouse in Your Soul." 
The band tried to remain faithful to its longtime fans with songs like "32 Footsteps" and "Ana Ng," but lost the Michiana crowd with several of these efforts. Instead, their more recent, major-label tunes were the ones which got the audience's feet tapping and bodies flying. 
But the band didn't want bodies to fly. 
In a move which must have soothed the University risk management team like a Quaalude and warm milk, guitarist John Flansburgh threatened to stop playing if stage diving and slam dancing became prevalent in the area immediately facing the stage. 
They Might Be Giants have been making this request throughout their current tour, and indeed Flansburgh left the stage during the band's encore when a stage diver raised his ire. 
The set's strongest efforts included the opening number, "Cowtown," from 1988's Lincoln. With usual accordionist John Linnell playing clarinet. the band got into their fun mode, singing about cows living under water. 
The crowd really got into the act with "Particle Man," as the duo sang about the battles between subatomic particles, geometry and humanity. 
Flansburgh and Linnell got the Notre Dame audience completely involved when they announced a game of "Stump the Band." After every member of the Stepan audience had screamed out his favorite cover song, Flansburgh leaned forward into the first row of the crowd and took a request. The woman to whom he spoke had picked a classic: Soft Cell's "Tainted Love." 
With but a few lapses in lyrical content, Flansburgh got through the song's verses. Then Linnell picked up the slack and sang Marc Almond's classic refrain to close the tune. 
Another fan favorite was the reinterpretation of "Istanbul (Not Constantinople)" which the band played; a thoroughly bizarre vocal closing to what arguably has been the group's biggest hit. 
They Might Be Giants fought the horrendous acoustics of Stepan's dome from the moment they walked on the stage, when Flansburgh addressed the immensity of the building. 
"It's great to be here in the most cavernous room we have ever been in," he said.· "Never before have we been able to hear this many echoes coming from the stage." 
They Might Be Giants' opening act was Victoria's Real Secret, a campus band which apparently has garnered quite a following throughout the South Bend area. The band's members were surprised at the reaction they received from last night's crowd. 
"I went up there (on stage} thinking everybody would be wanting They Might Be Giants," said lead singer Steve Sostak. "But then they all got into our music." 
The Student Union Board, and Music Commissioner Ryan Hallford pulled off a minor coup by getting a band of They Might Be Giants' stature to play Notre Dame at a reasonable price, but Hallford insists that there is more to come. 
"This is going to be the best year ever for concerts at Notre Dame," said Hallford. "And I'm not sure what's coming next." 
page 14 The Observer Friday, September 11, 1992 
Believing in God, even when He is silent 
What would the Church be like if all the members were to decide that God has shown, by the demands He makes of us, that He's not very loving; and that for the sake of our self­respect as a human race, we're duty-bound to protect one an­other against the ways He bullies us into doing His will? 
If the heavens were dark because the stars had gone out, and the idea of having a God who loves us more than we love ourselves had become unthinkable, would human beings cling to each other in mutual fidelity, trusting in the love they have for one another to protect them against falling into despair over the cosmic indifference? 
It's a no-win question I would 
\ leave to MacLeish, who wrote a play updating Job, if it weren't so obvious that the belief we have in a God of love tends to make us mean. Catholics claiming Christ as their Prince line up against Protestants who insist on the Paraclete as their Lover. Though we trust that Calvin's God and the God of Aquinas have enough in common to pass the peace pipe between them, the record shows that the people of God in either camp have been cruel to each other. Even members of the same religious tradition willingly bear false witness against each other. The begetting of life, for instance, can be as light­hearted we as the lark in the night that brings babies. But even if that act of Jove is ecstasy in its execution, it can be agony in its consequences. A shudder in the loins engenders immortality in thP. shape of a 
Letters to a Lonely God 
soul. Birth, be not proud! Thou art slave to fate, chance, drink, and rape. Why should the Almighty make so easy some­thing which, when it comes un­welcomed and unwanted, be­comes part of the mystery of human suffering? 
Yet the alleged "act of mercy" which could undo the begetting is condemned always and everywhere by our revealed religion as "an unspeakable crime," which, depending on the circumstances, I suppose it is, more or less. Yet, as a Catholic, I believe that calling it murder is emotional overkill which does more to punish the perpetrator than it does enlighten her. 
Catholics who stand on the picket line witnessing to life for the glory of God, shame their Church, any time they make such an ugly accusation. How can they offer their troubled sister, when they meet her face to face, such a loveless greeting, and still respect themselves as Christians animated by the state of grace. 
Have you ever noticed that on a college campus, many of us compete to win your attention or gain your allegiance, hoping to own part of your soul? Did you ever feel that you were being tempted to climb on a band wagon, or to submit as a groupie, or to follow the pied piper down the primrose path. 
I'm not talkinl! about some 
Father Robert Griffin 



NOW OPEN IN MISHAWAKA 
SZECHWAN GARDEN 
Chinese Restaurant Daily Luncheon Specials Mon.-Sat. til 3:00 pm Sunday Buffet 11:30~ $795 .• 6 Entrees • Soups 
• Salads • Appetizers • Desserts 
Carry Out Service Available 
313 W. McKinley, Mishawaka 
255-6868 
Just east of Grape Rd. on McKinley) 

ND SMC 
Students 
20th Annual Summer Program LONDON ROME 
May 19 .. June 18 June 13 .. July 12 ravel in Ireland, Travel in France, cotland, and France Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses offered in BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, NURSING, DUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, MUSIC 
MEETING Monday Oct. 5 
6:30 p.m. Carroll Hall, SMC • Free pizza Past students and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284~4460 or 272~3726 
ego trip that priests and teachers alone are prone to. Students are in business to enlist one another to trust in Medjugorje, or to recruit mah jong players into leading lives of quiet desperation. 
Civilization seems to be based on the premise that the children should inherit the sins of their parents; and all patriarchal system, says Pat Barker in a recent novel, Regeneration, are founded on the bargain initiated between Abraham and Isaac. 
"If you, who are young and strong, will obey me, who am old and weak, even to the extent of being prepared to sacrifice your life, then in the course of time you will peacefully inherit, and be able to exact the same obedience from your sons." 
From this bargain, says Wilfred Owen in a great poem of World War I, the fathers in every generation have gained the right to send their lads to fight in wars. You've heard the speech in a hundred movies: "Son, I have had my war, and now, boy, it's your turn." But what do the peaceniks who avoided Vietnam tell their sons? 
I'm reminded of Paul Fussell, writing of American and English soldiers in Catholic countries, discovering the religious statues representing Calvary at every roadside; waiting as faith symbols to be turned into miraculous crucifix stories. "Shells falling all 
around, but the figure of Our 
Lord was spared." 

Pat Barker tells a story in this genre that has the ring of truth to it. A British Tommy named Potter was so infuriated by these unharmed Calvaries that he decided to start a one­man campaign. 
"Whenever he saw an undamaged crucifix, he used it for target practice. You could hear him for miles. 'ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR, B---d on the Cross, FIRE!' There weren't many miraculous crucifixes in Potter's line of fire." 
Do you suppose Potter was an atheist out of his foxhole; or was he a slightly shell-shocked, war weary soldier, sickened by the stench of decaying bodies in his nostrils, tired of the stop­gap religion that pious souls invented, to persuade themselves that slaughter is holy? 
Our wretched century has been so hard on faith that theology itself has wondered if God is dead; and many us have clocked a great many miles as Christians, flying blind. Catholics disposed to put their faith in visionaries are going to have to fight for the .high ground, where we can see whether their raptures are truly credible, or only pipe dreams. 
More impressive to me than over ten years of reports from Medjugorje is the inscription discovered on the wall of a cellar in Cologne where a number of Jews hid themselves for the entire duration of the war. 
"I believe in the sun even when it is not shining. I believe in love even when feeling it not. I bP-lieve in God even when he is . 
silent" What, in the context, is the silence of God like? 
"My rabbi would frequently tell the story of a Jew who fled from the Spanish Inquisition with his wife and child, striking out in a small boat over the stormy sea until he reached a rocky island. A flash of lightning killed his wife; a storm rose and hurled his son into the sea. 
Then... naked, barefoot, lashed by the storm and terrified by the thunder and lightning, the Jew ...turned to God: 'God of Israel, I have fled to this place in order to worship you... to obey Your commandments and sanctify Your name. 
You, however, have done everything to make me stop believing in you. Now, lest it seems to You that You will succeed by these tribulations in driving me from the right path, I notify You, my God and the God of my fathers, THAT IT WILL NOT AVAIL YOU IN THE LEAST...You may torture me to death I will believe in You, I will always love You... '" (van Beeck, Loving the Torah) 
"So Krishna, as when he admonished Arjuna/Om the field of battle. Not fare well, but fare forward, voyagers." (Eliot, Four Quartets). 
Krishna put Arjuna on notice that it didn't matter which side of the battle he was on, as long as he fought with courage and honor. As the god of battles, Krishna promised that the re­ward of the courageous warriors on either side would be the same. 
Maybe as happy warriors we're entitled even as Christians to take Krishna's words to heart..•vh, .J( '"' 


Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Sunday, September 13 
10:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Don McNeill, C.S.C. 
• Sponsored byCampus Min1stry 
(HAO) Hispanic

(NvrLJS American 
Organization

MNISTRY 
------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilieds is Jp.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES I I FOR RENT ':::========== SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­ x2714. !!!I!!I!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I!! !!!  THANKS! NEED 1 MICHIGAN STUDENT TICKET OR GA. WILL PAY  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO AT x3587. PLEASE PLEASE.  NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. WILL PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT 614-354-5716  
FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM  I have MARRIED student tix book  BUCKS!! SHANNON X2996  I NEED MICH. GA'S.  SELLING ONE STUDENT TKT  
Notices  RENTALS. ALSO APT. &  Need to sell  Marty  1165  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303  SEC 35 B/0 LV MESSAGE  
BEDROOMS.257-9101.  NEED 1 STANFORD AND 1 BC  BEFORE 4 PM,  283-2291  
For more information and  ! ! I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  GA.  CALL X2805  OR 272-3753 AFTER 5.  
assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of  BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 West End Mishawaka apartment, newly remodeled clean 1 bdrm, $275 @ mo. + deposit + utilities.  •• 1993 FINAL FOUR •• I have 2 tickets to 1993 FINAL 4 in New Orleans. Will trade for STANFORD GA's. Larry x3671  We have Michigan GA's You can call us. Bob@ 287-9118 Need Penn St. Tix  SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL. I have U2 (Chi) tickets I want PSU tickets, TRADE? Dan x1374.  Need general admission tickets for Michigan and Purdue games. Call Mary Lou or Ray. Daytime:234­7553. Evening: 234-3873 Ticket booklet for sale!!!!!!  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313.  256-2108 or 256-7152 after 6 pm. I FOR SALE ·I  If you have 2 MICH GAs, I have lots of $$$$ Call Kirstin x4281 I Really Need 1 Student ticket for Penn State ...Brian at x1771  Tony x1786 Need 1 Student Ticket for Michigan Will Pay Big $$$$ call Mason 289-4278  DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET JUST ONE!! Student or GA. Call Tim x4116 HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov.  Leave offer on answering machine. .3647 I Have Mich GAs Chris X1717  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 ATTENTION CAMPUS BANDS!!! WVFI is looking for acts to take part in a live campus bands show-a Ia John Peel-on Wednesday nights this semester. If you're interested in getting on the air, call Rolando at 273-0895. TYPING 287-4082 USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 1 0-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342  RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR. TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 272-5959 CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 86 vw. ......................... $ 50 87 MERCEDES .......... $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11 KJC.  Any Mich GAs out there? If so, call Brian at x1771 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED 2 GA's AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATE. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS Call John X44 78 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SR. STUD. TIX FOR SALE. BEST OFFER. **289-6589.. I need Michigan GA's. Call Matt x1962.  FOR SALE: 2 Mich GA's 283-4483 PLEASE SELL ME ONE GA TIC FOR PURDUE. CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303 BEFORE 4 PM OR 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. MICHIGAN GA'S FOR SALE!!! 289-6589 STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE  7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. NEED TICKETS FOR MICHIGAN PLEASE HELP. CALL 1573 HELP! NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S CALL JOE X1560 N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S. WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY OTHER HOME GAME GA'S. PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  .................................... HAVE MICH. GA'S IN PAIRS & 4 TOGETHER CALL CHRIS 277-5733 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED TWO GA TICKETS FOR THE STANFORD GAME. CALL MATT AT X1741 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I HAVE 4 MICHIGAN GA'S Call Vince x1251 & make an offer Have std. tik booklet and 2 BYU GAs to sell or trade for Purdue, Stanford, BC or Penn GAs. 271­ 
3-year old male chesapeake bay retriever needs good home for the school year. For information call Mike or Theresa at 239-5368. ILOST/FOUND LOST: BLACK PURSE BETWEEN FISHER & HURLEY. CALL  TYPEWRITERS: IBM Selectric & Selectric 11($75 ea/obo) 2729770 U2 Tickets For Sale! 4 Lawn Seats, 9-15 at World, Chicago. $40 ea or best. 287-5724. STUD TIX FOR SALE SEC.31 MAKE OFFER PETE-3626  I NEED 1 STUD; 2 GA'S FOR PENN STATE X1746 NEED TICKETS FOR ALL HOME GAMES!CALL BRIAN 800-443­6701 x5281 or 312-248-3425 I have 6 Mich. Ga's, 2 purd  CALL 283-1747 I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs WANNA TRADE? Call Bret (me) at 1248. !love you.  I need Michigan student tickets and 2 BYU GA's. Call Molly 284-4377 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: MICH. AND PURDUE TIX. CALL  5618. FOR SALE: Two excellent Mich. GA's · 45 yard-line. Taking best offer. call 299-1845 .....1 NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA'S .... NAME YOUR PRICE-My parents are coming down for their one and  
283-31031F FOUND. LOST: Les Miserables songbook. To the girl who borrowed it at Choral auditions & then never returned it: I don't know who you are, so PLEASE call or drop it off at 328  1516 oakhill condo-2 bds,2baths, 1,170 sf,fireplace,spiral staircase to loft/den, 1 car garage. walk to nd $77,500. coldwell banker 277-8000 ruth ann smith 288-8875  GA's,need 9 Mich. stud. let's make a deal. Call mike at 273-2233. Need G.A.'s for B.C.,B.Y.U. and Penn St. Will pay BIG! #4419 We Have G.A.s for ALL  MICHIGAN GA'S ...I HAVE 4! If you need them call 283-1166--ask for PAUL. NEED 2 BYU GA'S BADLY-CALL X3625  MIKE @1151 & LEAVE MSGE. Wanted: MICH & PURD TIX. Call Mike@ 1151 & Leave Msg. I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and Penn State. 283-4607.  only football game-please call 272­9128! Need Mich. Student tix & GA's. My dad's willing to pay big bucks for the GA's. Call Ann Marie x2775.  
Stanford. X2033. Lost: Gold cladaugh bracelet.  LUV SEAT & CHAIR($75). New coffee maker($1 0). 272-9770  Home games incl. MICH. Call x1679  WILL SELL OR TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S FOR PENN ST. GA'S  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SALE: STUDENT TICKET BOOK 288-4919  
Possibly in NOH or Loftus. Huge sentimental value. If found please call271-7288. REWARD  STUDENT TIX BOOK 4-SALE. JENNIFER 284-5503.  •••••• • •••••••**••••••* * * ****••*****• • H ELP!!! I NEED 1 STANFORD GA My grandmother is making her first  JASON X1746 MARRIED STUDENT BOOKLETS  I NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT TICKETS and BYU GA's. If you have some you are willing to  SELLING TWO MICHIGAN G.A.'s. THAT'S RIGHT. I'VE STILL  
LOST: a cute little blonde beauty, soon to be a red headed woman. If found please contact ben, say hi to him and find out if he's big!!  U2 TICKETS -for Tuesday, Sept. 15 at World Theater (Chicago) -Call Rich at 287-3123; will accept best offer.  and last visit to NO from Yazoo City, MS (would I make that up) and would like to see a game while she is here! Please call Stephanie at x3743  FOR SALE 277-9389 AFTER 6 PM Need 2 tickets-GAs-for Oct. 3 Stanford game. Call Angela 283­4058  sell please call Molly 284-4377 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE HELP! ALUMNUS SEEKS GA'S TO  GOT'EM. CALL 272-8540 AND MAKE AN OFFER!! NEEDED: TWO STANFORD G.A.'S CALL TOM AT 273-8355  
LOST: silver ring in Hayes Healey 1st floor bathroom. Sentimental value -please call Laura 273 8377. FOUND: 2 keys on a ring outside of  FURNITURE: Call: 287-7611 Entertainment Center & Bookcase $30; Teak Bookcase $75; Oak Bookcase $20; Chair $20; Green Easy Chair· $50.  Pay big $$$ for THREE MICH. GA's or student tix (will put down deposit for book) Call Pat: 232-4528 Need 1 Mich. stud or GA -Sean 273-2497  NEED 2 TICKETS Penn State game Nov 14. BIG $ Call Sam Collect (0)908-687-1330 (N)201­376-9427 NEED ONE MICH STUD TICKET  MICHIGAN. CALL BILL AT 614­885-4616 AND I WILL CALL YOU BACK. THANK YOU! Need atleast 3 Purdue G.A.'S. Will pay big $. 273-0629  STUDENT TICKETS 4 SALE CALL X1547 TONY OR MARK FOR SALE MICH. PENN ST.ALL GAMES 272 7233  
Haggar on 9-7. Call x2989 to claim. I WANTED  FOR SALE: G.A.s for ALL Home Games. X 1679  I need 2 MICHIGAN tix call Kathleen X4092.  MOLLY 233-4925 WILL TRADE my 2 Michigan GA's for your 2 Penn State GA's. Call  Need STANFORD GA's or STD's Call Brian 273-0967  NEED TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAMES 277-1659  
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's. Please call 284-4308.  BSR 6 disc CD player. Remote, 2 Cartridges. Good Condition. Call  1 MICH GA FOR SALE X1817 ASK FOR HARRY  Patsy at x4876. DESPERATELY NEED STUD TIX  HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S NEED TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE. CALL WENDY X1264  MICHIGAN GA's for sale! Call Mike or Tim at x1 006  
UNIQUE, PART-TIME, INCOME OPPORTUNITY. Seeking a creative, competitive marketing person to represent a new, low cost product to people searching lor a new career. For interview call 234­1171, 8am-5pm. NEED RIDE ONE-WAY BACK TO D.C. AREA ON 9/13. 259-5619 W 232-7964 H.  Dan x1689. SKIS Atomic 833sl -top of the line direct from factory, still wrapped excellent price! Kevin x1062 Like NEW AMPLIFIER For Sale Call Mike x1849 STUDENT  I have a pair of incredible MICH GA's. Will take best offer. Call Chrissy-3845 or 3620. Football tickets for sale-married student booklets 273-9424. I DESPERATELY NEED A GA OR STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATE-CALL JAHNELLE AT 283­2998  BOOK x2205 •..TICKET BOOKLET for sale!!!!!! · leave offer on machine X2905 I NEED 2 BC GA'S TIM X 1593 2 Stud BOOKLETS on Sale x1849 $$$$$$$$$$$$$ $ I Need 2 BYU GA's $  NEED BYU TIX! CALL WENDY X1264 LOOKING TO TRADE 2 STANFORD GA's FOR 2 BC GA's. CALL JOHN at X3526. MICHIGAN TIX needed GA's or Student Call Bill-1104  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 PENN STATE GAs 284-5208 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I HAVE 2 MICH. GAs!!! WILL TRADE FOR 2 PFNN ST. GAs ONLY. CALL JOE x1395  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS Experienced Student Painters needed to paint South Bend area homes. Full or Part Time. AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS 1 (800)626-6267 "painting America's homes coast to coast"  TICKET BOOK For Sale!!! Best Offer TICKETS  I need student and/or GA Purdue football tickets and Boston College GA football tickets; please call Dave at x4506. NEED 2 Michigan GAs $$$ x3593 NEED STUDENT TIX FOR MICH. WILLING TO PAY BIG$$$.  $ Patty x4637 $ $$$$$$$$$$$$$ Selling 1 U2 tik, Lawn seat 9/15 $30 x3474 Alumni needs 2 PURDUE GA's Please Help.  Need 4 Perdue GA's Have Stanford GA's to trade +$$ John x1166 HELP!!! NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA's. TIM x 2763. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Selling 1 Mich STUD x417 4 Kathleen Need GA's for all home games Brian 273-8368 Need GA's for all home games Kim 284-4401  
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!... Begin NOWI. ..FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  Call Michelle @ 271-1264 PLEASE HELP: My dad would like to see one Michigan game before I graduate and need tickets.  CALL BRIAN AT 273-8453. I NEED MICHIGAN TICKETS ONE OR TWO PLEASE!!! $$CALL JOHN X1450$$  Call Maria x1347 I HAVE 3 MICH-GA'S! I'll trade ya for 3 Penn St GA's, or they'll go to the highest bidder!! Paul #2714. OH  MICH TIX For Sale Call271 1514 .................................  Believe it or not I am willing to pay money for a Purdue ticket!!! call Tanya x1759 Need 1 Stanford GA-Trade for  
HELP! 2 desperate people need ride to the U2 concert 9/16 in Chi. Will pay gas &tolls. Call x2033.  Call Mike 283-1161 1 I NEED NO FOOTBALL \ TICKETS.272_6306  MY BRO IS A GREAT H.S. QB. HE LUVS TO GET PLAYS FROM NO. HE NEEDS PLAYS.  YEAH, I ALSO NEED 2-3 MICH STUD. TIX!! TANKS-P.V.2 TICKETS WANTED FOR THE  MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK FOR SALE BOB 287-9118  Purdue GA call 3351 season tix bklt -no id req­X4073 kev  
TWO NEED RIDE to CHICAGO to U2 on SEPT 18. Will pay gas & tolls. x2521  WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN  THERE'S ONE WAY. SELL ME YOUR PU, ST, BYU, BC, PENN GA'S! CALL ERIN 284-5128.  SEPT. 26 NO/PURDUE GAME, 8 TICKETS NEEDED WITH GROUPINGS OF 4 IF POSSIBLE; EFFORTS WILL BE  NO ID REQUIRED NO 10 REQUIRED ...................................  PERSONALS  
PURDUE TIX!!!! I offer SEX, MONEY, roommates, anything else your heart desires! Need 2 GA or 1 Std. -Call Scot at •4013 HELP!HELPIHELP!HELPIHELPI I need a ride to and from Muncie (BSU) on any weekend or weekday. I will pay gas, bake cookies. give you my firstborn! Best Friend's b­day is the 15th. Can't miss itl Call me. Amy x4530  DESPERATE NEED!I708-843­6947. Desperately seeking GAs for Michigan and Stanford !!!!!!! Please call Liz at x3783 or x2184. NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY. 234-8306 OR 800-323-7687. NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY, OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU, BOST. COLL. OR PENN ST. GA'S. 232·0817 Badly need 2 student or GA tickets to Michigan. Will pay good money.  HELP! NEED TO TRADE 4 BC GA'S FOR 4 BYU GA'S. PLEASE CALL COLLECT AFTER 8 PM (609) 769-0721. ******************* IVE GOT A MICHIGAN GA I AM RO. 273-0895 ******************* WANTED: STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S WILL PAY $ $ $ I PLEASE CALL TODAY! DANIELA 284-4346 OR BOB 283-1 090  SIGNIFICANTLY COMPENSATED. PLEASE CALL 294-3146. ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. Will pay big bucks for NO -MICH G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561. HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's NEED MICH and/or WHOLE STUD. BOOKS 288-1027 -MARK WANT TO MAKE A BUCK? I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  BOSTON COLLEGE SUCKS! So why don't you sell me your tickets? Call Delli 283-1693 PLEASE!Ill! Need one BC GA for friend from Cali. Please call Gina B 4974. WILL TRADE 2MSU GAs FOR 1 U of M GAISTUDENT PLEASE CALL ASAP MEAl 284-4346 MAY SELL 2 MSU GAs  Hey Niff PRESCHOOL REGISTRATION: The Children's Community Co-op is now filling its morning classes for ages 3-5 and also the Toddler Playschool. This is a co-op with a growing popularity within the NotreDame Community. Call for more info: Peg Moody 234-2320 (mornings). JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! see CLASS/page 9  


NFL STANDINGS 
MLB STANDINGS TRANSACTIONS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE AMERICAN CONFERENCE BASEBALL PITTSBURGH STEELERS-Piaced Eric Green Eaat Dlvlalon Eaet MLB-Named Bud Selig, Milwaukee Brewers and Russ Cal'll>bell, tight ends, on injured re­w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away w L T Pel PF PA 
owner, chairman of the executive council. serve. Signed Jesse Ca~ll and Tim Jorden, 
tight ends. CHICAGO CUBS-Recalled Jeff Hartsock, WASHINGTON REDSKINS-Piaced John 
Toronto 81 59 .579 z-8·2 Woo 2 45-24 36-35 Buffalo 1 0 0 1.000 40 7 National League 
Baltimore 77 62 .554 3112 z-6-4 Lost 4 36·32 41·30 Indianapolis 1 0 0 t.OOO 14 3 Miami 0 0 0 .000 00 00 pitcher, from Iowa of the American Association. Brandes, long snapper, on injured reserve.
Milwaukee 75 64 .540 5112 6-4 Lost 1 44-27 31·37 New YorK 67 73 .479 14 6-4 Woo 4 32-40 New England 0 0 0 .000 00 00 CINCINNATI REDS-Recalled Rick Wrona. Signed Guy Bingham, snapper. 
35-33 Detroit 65 76 .461 t6 1/2 2·8 Woo 1 31-38 34-38 N.Y. Jets 0 1 0 .000 17 20 catcher, from Nashville of the American HOCKEY 
Central Association. National Hockey League Cleveland 64 75 .460 16 1/2 1 37-34 27-41 Pittsburgh 1 0 0 1.000 29 24 BASKETBALL BOSTON BRUINS-Acquired Jell Ricciardi, de­Boston 64 75 .460 t6 1/2 z-5-5 Lost 2 39-29 25-46 
5·5 Woo Weat Dlvlalon Cincinnati 1 0 0 1.000 21 3 National Beaketbllll Aaaoclatlon fenseman, from the Winnipeg Jets for a condi­w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Cleveland 0 I 0 .000 3 14 NBA-Announced the extension of the devel­tional draft pick. Oakland 83 57 .593 -5-5 Woo 3 42-27 41-30 Houston 0 1 0 .000 24 29 opment agreement with the Continental EDMONTON OILERS-Signed ian Herbers, Minnesota 78 62 .557 5 z-7-3 Woo 3 42-29 36-33 West Basketball Association. defenseman. and Andrew Verner. goaltender. Chicago 75 64 .540 7 112 7-3 Lost 1 46-26 29-38 Denver I 0 0 1.000 17 13 CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Signed Brad Taxa 69 73 .486 t5 z-5-5 Woo 2 33-39 36-34 Kansas City 1 0 0 1.000 24 10 Daugheny, center, to a multiyear contract exten--r----------------. California 63 77 .450 20 4-6 Lost 2 36-34 27-43 LA Raiders 0 1 0 13 17
.000 sion. Kansas City 62 77 .446 20112 z-4-6 Lost 2 38-33 24-44 San Diego 0 1 0 .000 10 24 MIAMI HEAT-Agreed to terms with John Salley, Seattle 56 85 .397 27 112 z-2-8 Lost 8 33·37 23-48 Seattle 0 1 0 .000 3 21 forward, on a contract extension. 
Football photo

NATIONAL CONFERENCE PHILADELPHIA 76EAS-Named Steve Mix di· NATIONAL LEAGUE East 
rector of comrrunity relations. Eaat Dlvlelon L Pet. PF PA 
book on sale

W T SAN ANTONIO SPURS-Named Peter Raeford, 
weight and conditioning coach, and Butch
w L Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Dallas 1 0 0 1.000 23 10 2 0 15 McClintock, equipment manager and video co·
Pittsburgh 81 58 .583 z-8·2 Woo 45-26 36-32 Philadelphia 1 0 1.000 13 
Special to the Observer

Montreal 76 63 .547 5 z-6-4 Lost 1 36-35 40-28 N.Y. Giants 0 1 0 .000 14 31 ordinator. St. Louis 69 68 .504 11 z-7-3 Woo 1 37-31 32-37 Phoenix 0 1 0 .000 7 23 
WASHINGTON BULLETS-Agreed to terms w~h Chicago 69 69 .500 11 112 z-4-6 Lost 2 36-31 33-38 
Wllshington 0 1 0 .000 10 23 Brent Price, guard, on a three-year contract. 
The first 300 lucky Irish fans

Central Continental Baaketball Aeaociatlon Philadelphia 56 81 .409 24 z-4-6 Woo 2 33-37 23-44 Chicago 1 0 0 1.000 27 24 ROCHESTER RENEGADES-Named Dale 
New YorK 63 75 .457 17 1/2 3-7 Lost 2 35-32 28-43 
to purchase the new picture 

Weat Divialon Minnesota 1 0 0 1.000 23 20 ClarK director of broadcasting. 
book Notre Dame Football 

w Pet GB L10 Streak Home Away Tal1l>8 Bay 1 0 0 1.000 23 7 SIOUX FALLS SKYFOACE-Acquired Dan
L Atlanta 84 55 .604 z-7-3 Woo 6 45-26 39-29 Detroit 0 1 0 .000 24 27 Cyrulik. center. from the Rapid Chy Thrillers for a 
Today this Saturday at the 

San Diego 75 64 .540 9 6-4 Woo 1 40-28 35-36 Green Bay 0 1 0 .000 20 23 filth-round draft pick in 1993. 
Varsity shop w9ill recieve a 

Weet United States Basketball LeagueCincinnati 75 65 .536 9 112 4-6 Lost 3 44-23 31-42 
copy autographed by Coach Lou

Houston 67 73 .479 17 112 z-7-3 Lost 39-30 28-43 Atlanta 1 0 0 1.000 20 17 ATLANTA EAGLES-Named Russ King director San Francisco 62 78 .443 22 1/2 3-7 Woo 38-35 24-43 San Francisco 1 0 0 1.000 31 14 of public relations. 
Holtz~ · 

Los Angeles 56 84 .400 28 1/2 3·7 Lost 35·36 21·48 LA Rams 0 1 0 .000 7 40 FOOTBALL 
The* new 144..page hard..:

z-denotes first game was a win. New Orleans 0 1 0 .000 13 15 National Football League Sunday'a Games CLEVELAND BROWNS-Claimed Tom 
cover volume offers a rare look 
NATIONAL LEAGUE

AMERICAN LEAGUE Indianapolis 14, Cleveland 3 Myslinski, offensive guard, from the Dallas 
behind the scenes of Fight,ing
Wedneaday'a Game• Philadelphia 2, New York 1

Wedneaday'a Garnea Chicago 27, Detroit 24 CO'M)oys· practice squad. Placed Cedric Figaro. 
Minnesota 6. Seattle 2 Buffalo 40, Los Angeles Rams 7 linebacker, on injured reserve. Resigned John 
Irish football. featuring the 

New YorK 5, Banimore 2 Pittsburgh 13, Chicago 8 Minnesota 23, Green Bay 20, OT Brown Ill, wide receiver, to the practice squad. 
photography of Rich Clarkson.
St. Louis 10, Montreal 3 Atlanta 12, Cincinnati 7 

Texas 3, Boston 2 Philadelphia 15, New Orleans 13 Released Rickey Jones. wide receiver. 
Featured are a''' foreward by

DETROIT LIONS-Signed Ed Tillison. running Cleveland 5, Milwaukee 4 Houston 6, San Francisco 4 Pittsburgh 29, Houston 24 back, from their practice squad. Signed John 
Toronto 1, Kansas City 0 Atlanla 20, New York Jets 17 
Irish great Joe Montana and an 

Chicago 6, Detroit 4 Los Angeles 4, San Diego 1 Cincinnati 21, Seanle 3 Derby, linebacker, to their practice squad. 
essay by Malcolm Moran of The

Oakland 3, California 0 Thuraday'a Gamea Kansas City 24. San Diego 10 Released Don Ovenon. running back. Thuraday'e Garnee San Francisco 5, Houston 2 Tampa Bay 23. Phoenix 7 INDIANAPOLIS COLTS-Piaced Tony Walker, 
New York Times. It also in­

Toronto at Texas, ppd., rain Atlanta 3, Cincinnati 2 San Francisco 31, New Yorll Giants 14 linebacker, on injured reserve. Signed Matt 
dudes quotes froin players:

Detron 8, Chicago 0 San Diego 3, Los Angeles 1 Denver 17, Los Angeles Raiders 13 Vanderbeek, linebacker. . Oat\ land 6, Seattle 4 Only games scheduled New England at Miami, ppd., hurricane, LOS ANGELES RAMS-Claimed Warren 
coaches; students arid adminis­

Only games scheduled Frlday'e Game• rescheduled Oct. 18 Powers. defensive end. off waivers from the 
trators,~.·.·· ti• •r.,.,+.•)::; ' ti•w#!!!i1~·ii]il~}n. 

Friday'• Gamn New YorK (Hillman 2..0} at Montreal (Nabholz g. Monday'• Game Denver Broncos. Waived Alvin Wright, defensive 
.,,,More thapJ20 shot§,,.were 5ct­

Toronto (Guzman 13-3 and Stottlemyre 1 0-9) at 10), 7:35p.m. Dallas 23, Washington 10 tackle. Texas (Pavtk 3-2 and Chlamparino 0-1). 2. 5:35 Pittsburgh (Walk 9-4) at Philadelphia (Rivera 4-Sunday, Sept. 13 NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Placed Vince Buck, 
ffcted from' Clarkson and his 

p.m. 3), 7:35p.m. Atlanta at Washington, t p.m. cornerback. on injured reserve. Claimed Cedric 
.· t<1ffof .six prestigious photog~

Kansas City (Haney 1..0) at New York (Hitchcock Chicago (G. Maddux t6-tt) at St. Louis (Olivares Chicago at New Orleans, 1 p.m. Mack, cornerback, off waivers from the Kansas o-o), 7:30 p.m. 8-8), 8:05p.m. Dallas at New Yorll Giants, 1 p.m. City Chiefs. 
.aJ>hers~ '*;;, ...,...... itt·...•..• ''L,,t 

Detroit (Doherty 5-3) at Boston (Viola 11·11 ), Atlanta (P.Smith 4..0) at Houston (Kile 3-9), 8:35 Green Bay at Tampa Bay, 1 p.m. NEW YORK GIANTS-Placed Myron Guyton. 
''?F'"This is the most intimate,

7:35p.m. p.m. Los Angeles Raiders at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. safety, on injured reserve. Signed Jesse Milwaukee (Wegman 12-12) at Baltimore Cincinnati (Pugh 1-1) at San Diego (Benes 11· Minnesota at Detroit, 1 p.m. Ca~ll. safety. 
olorful. adn emotional look at 

(Mussina 14-5), 7:35 p.m. 12), 10:35 p.m. Seanle at Kansas C~y. 1 p.m. NEW YORK JETS-Placed Johnny Mitchell, tight 
FJghting Irish footballthat I've 

Cleveland (Nagy t3·10} at Chicago (Hibbard 10· San Francisco (Carter 0-1) at Los Angeles Buffalo at San Francisco, 4 p.m. end, on injured reserve. Signed Eric Kattus, tight 6), a:os p.m. (Candiotti 10-12), 10:35 p.m. Houston at Indianapolis, 4 p.m. end. Released Patrick Nelson, wide receiver. 
:·,t~r seen,~ said Montana ~por1 

CaiWomia (Abbott 6-13) at Minnesota (Smiley Saturday'• Gernea New England at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. from the practice squad. Signed Anthony Prior. 14-7), 8:05p.m. Pittsburgh at Philadelphia, 7:05p.m. New Yorll Jets at Pittsburgh. 4 p.m. defensive back-kick returner, to the practice 
···,~~~~~b:.l,;:si;:1i!.·,···"~::1t~: 

Seattle (Fisher 2-1) at Oakland (Wilt 9-13), 10:35 New York at Montreal, 7:35p.m. San Diego at Denver, 4 p.m. squad. 
book retails at $39.95.

p.m. Atlanta at Houston, 8:05p.m. Philadelphia at Phoenix, 8 p.m. PHILADELPH lA EAGLES-Named John 
Chicago at St. Louis, 8:05p.m. Monday, Sept. 14 Wooten scout and Dr. David Greenwald player San Francisco at Los Angeles, 10:05 p.m. Miami at Cleveland, 9 p.m. relations consultant. Cincinnati at San Diego. 10:05 p.m. 
'( 
LOU HOLTZ--AUTOGRAPHED EDITION 
OF 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY 
SPECIAL OFFER! 
300 copies of this exquisite, hardcover book containing Coach Lou Holtz's autograph will be available on the second-­floor concourse of the ACC outside the Varsity Shop on Saturday, Sept. 12, prior to the home opener against Michigan. 
The books will be available beginning at 8:00 am and will be sold on a first come, first served basis (limit: two autographed copies per person). 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY offers the most complete, behind~the~scenes look at Fighting Irish football ever compiled. From game action shots to rarely seen private moments and preparation techniques to fan, student and alumni activities around campus, NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY captures all the color, pageantry and excitement that make Notre Dame football special. Seven of America's top photographers were given unrestricted access by Coach Holtz during the past three seasons and took more than 30,000 photos, the finest of which were carefully selected for this valuable keepsake. It's a detailed portrait of the Fighting Irish and all that surrounds the·program. The book makes a great gift, and every loyal Irish fan should have one. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY also contains a foreword by Joe Montana and an essay by Malcolm Moran of The New York Times as well as revealing quotes from players, coaches and those closest to the program. The 144~page book is printed in an oversized format (9 5/s" x 12") on the finest heavy~coated paper . 
../ 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TODAY is also available by calling 1~800 ..621--9342 (American Express, Visa or Master Card) or by sending a check or money order to Notre Dame Football Today, University of Notre Dame, 112 Joyce ACC, Notre Dame, IN 46556~9923. The cost is $3922 per copy plus $322 for shipping and handling. 
~~ 
Friday, September 11, 1992 The Observer page 17 
20 Bengals named in rape charge QB jobs unstable in NFL 
CINCINNATI (AP) -The names are out. The reporters have come and gone. A resolu­tion to the rape allegations is still probably months away. 
Now, the Cincinnati Bengals try to focus on football. 
"Outside of you guys, nothing has changed in this locker room," receiver Tim McGee told a pack of reporters Wednesday. 
The Bengals spent the day dealing with the fallout from a civil lawsuit accusing 20 cur­rent and former players of ei­ther raping a Spokane, Wash., woman or watching. 
The names were released Tuesday, five months after the lawsuit was filed. About 40 re­porters and photographers ­four times the usual comple­ment -showed up to question players Wednesday, the first time they were available since the names came out. 
Some were mum, others· an­gry to be included in the list. Everyone realized they'll have to live with it for a while.. 
"The damage is done. The hard part is over, as far as I'm concerned," McGee said. 
'If you're guilty, you're guilty. 
If you're not, you're not. It will all come out," defensive back Rickey Dixon said. "That's what the courts are for." 
"It's going to take a while for the lawsuit to work its way through the legal system. In the meantime, team leaders don't want it wrecking the Bengals' football season. 
Coach Dave Shula talked about it with the team before practice Wednesday. 
"This is a very serious matter for the entire organization and the football team," Shula said. "The best thing they can do now is come in and focus on practice and play as hard as they can on Sunday." 
The Bengals went to Seattle, where the lawsuit was filed, and beat the Seahawks 21-3 Sunday, giving Shula his first head coaching victory. They play the Los Angeles Raiders at home this Sunday. 
"We've got to get on with our work," said quarterback Boomer Esiason, who wasn't named in the lawsuit. 
Attention Wednesday focused on the players accused of either raping the woman, identified only as Victoria C., or of watching the alleged rape. 
The lawsuit said the alleged rape occurred in the team hotel in October 1990, when the Bengals were on the West Coast to play Seattle and the Los Angeles Rams. 
The woman claims she went to the Bengals' hotel in subur­ban Seattle for consensual sex with one team member, and others raped her for more than two hours. No criminal charges have been filed. Her civil law­suit in federal court is sched­uled for trial next June. 
According to Richard Eymann, the attorney for Victoria C., his client has left Spokane and is in hiding. 
Eymann told The Spokesman­Review of Spokane, Wash., in today's editions that Victoria C. moved because she feared she was being followed by a private investigator hired by a Bengals attorney and to escape the "spotlight" the case has cast on her. 
"She's not in town; she's in the region," Eymann said in the report. 
He declined to be more spe­cific, but said her move is likely temporary. 
Accused of rape are current players Dixon, Rodney Holman, Eric Thomas, Barney Bussey, McGee, David Fulcher and James Francis, and former Bengals Lewis Billups, Ickey 
Woods,  Bernard Clark  and  
Craig Ogletree.  
Victoria  C.'s  lawyer  said  

receiver Reggie Rembert's name was dropped from the list as a clerical error, but he's accused of rape, too. 
The other eight current and former players accused of 
· watching the ·rape arc Harold Green, Eric Ball, Leo Barker, Craig Taylor, Solomon Wilcots, Mitchell Price, Eddie Brown and Carl Carter. 
w 
E 
D 
E 
L 
I 
v 
E 

Even the coaches don't seem to know who's the quarterback. 
Just ask Ray Handley, George Seifert, Ted Marchibroda or Art Shell, all of whom have gone beyond quarterback contro­versy into quarterback confu­sion, 
"I want to come out and blast everything," Jeff Hostetler of the New York Giants said after being told by Handley that he wouldn't start Sunday against Dallas. 
"But what good would that do. I'm frustrated. I want to play and I'm not going to have that opportunity. It doesn't do any good to burn my bridges." 
A lot of others feel the same way. 
To wit: 

-In San Francisco, Joe Montana is placed on injured reserve, asks to be traded, then denies he asked. Seifert re­places him with Steve Young, who is knocked out in the first quarter of the first game, then keeps Young at quarterback for another week even though Steve Bono led them to a win. 
-In Los Angeles, Shell tries to stay steadfast behind Jay Schroeder while Raiders fans clamor for Todd Marinovich. 
-And in Indianapolis, Mark Herrman is cut the day after he quarterbacks the Colts to their first opening-day win in the eight years since they've ar­rived from Baltimore. 
The most visible confusion is in New York and San Francisco, largely because the two teams are the most visible -winners of five of the seven Super Bowls between 1984 and 1990. 
The New York situation is typical of the chaos there since Bill Parcells quit as coach on May 15, 1991. He was replaced by Handley, who announced he'd decide after camp between Simms, the 10-year starter and 1987 Super Bowl MVP and Hostetler, who replaced the injured Simms in December, 1990 and carried the Giants through the playoffs and Super Bowl. 
Hostetler, five years younger at 31, won the job many people thought Handley wanted to give him to establish his indepen­dence from Parcells. He quar­terbacked the Giants to a 6-5 record before injuring his back in Tampa. 
Simms relieved him and the team finished finished 8-8. The major casualty was Handley, whose image, never great in New York, was tarnished na­tionwide by TV clips that showed him storming out of a news conference when he was asked what would happen when Hostetler got healthy. 
Hostetler did get healthy and Handley gave him back the job. 
But he injured his ribs and pelvis in an exhibition and was held out of the opener. So Simms went 20 of 37 for 223 yards after hitting just two of his first ten in a 31-14 loss to the 49ers. 
On Wednesday, Handley an­nounced that Simms would start again over the now healthy Hostetler because he had improved the offense. 
"Who else has two Super Bowl MVPs at quarterback?" is his answer, which is not strictly true, since Ottis Anderson, not Hostetler, was MVP of the 1991 game. 
The Montana-Young-Bono triangle is also two years old. 
Montana missed all of last season while undergoing elbow surgery and Young quarter­backed the 49ers to a 4-5 record before he was injured. Bono, hitherto the undisputed third stringer, took over and led the team to five of the six straight wins with which it fin­ished its first non-playoff sea­son since 1982. 
Moreover, Bono seemed more at home in the San Francisco system than the scrambling Young. 
When Montana went on IR again -despite claiming he'd be ready to play by the third week-many players privately-· said they wanted Bono back. But Young started against the Giants, and will start this week against the Bills despite Bono's performance. 
"It's different blocking for them because Steve Young is left-handed and moves around," says right tackle Harris Barton, one of Young's close friends. "But there's not much difference." 
RESERVATIONS AND I'IAJOK CRLDIT CARDS ACCEPTED 
w 
E 

Specializing In Barbequed Baby Back Ribs 
APPETIZER-. 
Try our Deep Fr.~d Alligator.Calamari Rmgs ::,,,;;:!'!) 
Cocht~il. 
Mozzarella St•cks & More! 
"Known for lhe Best Food 
in Town and 
All Around" 
S\\'[[T TREATS 
Carrot Cake. New York Cheesecake and r.tore! 

R Just Call For Free Delivery R 
Large 15" Pepperoni Pizza 
FRESH! FRESH! FAST! 
FAST! HOT! HOT! 
Call Now! 
D 
E 
L 
I 
v 
E 

TilE POI~TE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
ifor (jratfuate Students and!Facu{ty 
We afso fiave furnisfied ezy,cutive suites 
Office J-fours: Montfay-~riday 9 a.m.-6 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
307 La.Sa[[e >Ivenue, Soutli 'Bend, lnaiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 

page 18 The Observer Friday, September 11, 1992 
Christie chooses Trieste 
SEATTLE (AP) -The agent kind of like they want some­for Doug Christie, the Seattle thing for nothing. I don't know SuperSonics' first-round draft if they want me here. I might choice, says his client has a lu­have to be to Europe to take crative offer to play pro basket­care of my family. If I have to do ball in Italy. it, I'll do it." 
Jeff Neal said Christie has The Sonics said Christie may been offered approximately $1 have been the 17th best player million to play basketball in selected this year but he will be Trieste this season. the 1Oth best player on their 
The Sonics say they can only roster and they want to pay him offer Christie $500,000 because accordingly. they are over the NBA salary cap. Christie was the 17th pick "Hopefully, he can earn his overall in June. way up the ladder and com­
Neal insisted the Italian offer mand more money down the is not a ploy to seek contract road," Sonics president Bob leverage. He adds that Christie Whitsitt said. would be willing to play for $500,000 but he wants a con­Christie, a 6-foot-6 guard tract for five to seven years. from Pepperdine, grew up in 
Neal said the Sonics are offer­Seattle and went to Rainier ing a contract of two to three Beach High SchooL years. Neal said Christie needs to 
''I'm a little disappointed with decide on the Italian offer the Sonics," Christie said. ''It's within the next day or two. 
Please join us at our 
TAILGATE PARTY 
September 12th 
9:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. 
Food, Fun, Prizes Sign up to win AffiLINE TICKETS FOR 2!! 
providing you with .... 
AP File Photo Well-traveled veteran forward Xavier McDaniel, right, once of Seattle and New York, signed a free agent 
•Guaranteed Best Air Fares 
contract with Boston. The aging Celtics have major frontcourt problems which McDaniel may help solve. 
•
Personalized Service 

•No 
Waiting in Lines


McDaniel latches on to Celtics 
•Prompt Phone Service 
BOSTON (AP) -The Boston Seattle SuperSonics in 1985 out Bird announced his retire­Celtics, seeking a replacement of Wichita State, was acquired ment last month after 13 sea­in their front court with the re­by the Knicks from the Phoenix sons, citing recurring back 
1723 South Bend Avenue 271-4880 
tirement of Larry Bird, an­Suns on Oct. 1, 1991, in ex­problems, including back 
next to Turtle Creek Apts.
nounced today they had come change for Jerrod Mustaf, Trent surgery, that had limited his to terms with free agent Xavier Tucker and second-round draft playing time over the past sev­McDaniel. picks in 1992 and 1994. eral seasons. 


The Celtics scheduled a news conference for 10 a.m. to an­McDaniel averaged 13.7 nounce the signing of McDaniel, points and 5.6 rebounds in 82 who played for the New York games last season, shooting Knicks last season. .478 from the field. In the 
McDaniel, a 6-foot-7 forward, playoffs, he went up to 18.8 passed up an offer of more than points and 7.2 rebounds per $4 million from the Knicks last game. season to become an For his seven-year career, unrestricted free agent. McDaniel has averaged 19.1 
The Celtics, limited by NBA points and 6.8 rebounds per salary cap restrictions, report­game. edly were able to offer him no McDaniel and his agent, more than $1.65 million for the David Falk, came to Boston coming season. Wednesday to meet with Celtics 
McDaniel, drafted by the officials. 
Bring this coupon to Little Professor and receive 
$1 OFF 
a purchase of $5 or more or... 
$20FF 
a purchase of $10 or more or... 
$30FF 
a purchase of $15 or more . 
0n@ diJ<:ount...!«ttoo r:-rust""""; oil"' nlid ooly on regululy-priced boob In stocl< and not valid with Olher di>counts. 
~BLITTLE PROFESSORR 
t~J OOK CENTE . 
We help you firrd books you'll love. 
Ironwood Plaza North • near the New Martin's State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend 277-4488 • Mon.-Sat.: 10:00-9:00 • Sunday: 10:00-5:00 
.../ 
-••___ _1 
Catch the Action! 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan State September 19th 
Round trip bus transportation to Spartan Stadium (Buses leave at 9:30 am from CCE) 
Tickets: $15 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Student tickets to game available through SUB lottery September 15 





Friday, September 11, 1992 The Observer page 19 


COME JOIN "MOOSE" KRAUSE 
• 
OR A SPECIAL AUTOGRAPH SESSION 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11th AT THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" (from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m.) 

;' 
five-mile course held at Burke Memorial Golf Course on the Notre Dame campus. It is a rel­atively flat course which makes for a closer race. The course also has a lot of good vantage points enabling the spectator to watch a great part of the race. 
Even though the Irish boast an impressive national ranking. as runners they know the importance of fan support. Notre Dame is a school famous for it's spirit. It would be im­pressive if the enthusiastic stu­dent body could back this team at their season opener and give them the support they need to make a run for the national ti­tle. 
Men's golf tees off 1992 season 
By DAVE STUMM Sports Writer 
The 1992 men's fall golf sea­son will get underway this Sunday as the team competes in the Northern Intercollegiate Tournament this Sunday at Purdue University. 
The tournament, which in­cludes Notre Dame, Purdue, Ball State, Wisconsin, Indiana, Iowa, and Kentucky, has a 36 hole-shotgun start Sunday morning. 
Last year, the team finished third in the tournament, three strokes behind Purdue and one stroke behind Ball State. 1992­9 3 senior co-captain Chris Dayton tied for low medalist but lost in a one hole playoff. 
Coach George Thomas is looking for a "pretty decent showing" and feels that this year's team is stronger and has more balance than last year's. 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rates may save~ money. Call fur a qoote 9-5, LB9-1993. Office near camplS. 
J 
SURVEY RESEARCH TECHNICIANS 

Aexible ~ehedules available for "The best and brightest." Able to work 4PM ­lOPM cx_5:30 PM • 10:30 PM during rhe week and EITHER 9AM • 3PM or 3:30 • 9:30PM on Saturday OR llAM • 5PM cr 5:30PM to 9:30 PM on Sunday to d wrvey resean:h inrerviewing. codin( and 
datll entry in our growine South Bend Raearch Operations Cen~r. Excellen compensation and workine conditioru. PC experience desired. T ypine required. Send reiume or letter of intereat to: Market Strategies, 108 N. Main, Suite 311, South Bend, IN 46601 or call 219· 233-3454 fOr aopoinanenc. 
ALSO HIRING WEEKENDS ONLY 

Hl 
i 
l 
) 
' 
I 
li 

'~­
I' 
~ 
l 
1 
J; 
{ 
I 
\ ; . ...J 
l } 
J JI
l ; 
J i 
I j 
The Observer 
page 20 
Strawberry back to surgery, not to work 
LOS ANGELES (AP) -Darryl Strawberry's on-again, off­again back surgery is back on again. And this time, he means it. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder, limited to 43 games this season by a herniated disk, made the decision while driving to Dodger Stadium on Thursday. The date, however, is still undecided. 
"I thought about it going orne last night," he said. ··And then driving to the park today, my leg was killing me and I said, 'This is it. I'm going to have the surgery and get it over with."' 
Dr. Robert Watkins, the spe­cialist who has been treating Strawberry since May, exam­ined him again before Wednesday night's game with San Diego and wasn't satisfied with his condition. Strawberry played and drove in his first run since July 19. 
Dodgers manager Tom Lasorda called Strawberry into his office late Wednesday night and convinced him that he should get the operation. 
"I told him my wife had that same operation last Thanksgiving and she feels fantastic," Lasorda said...It's not a very serious operation. Dr. Watkins has done over 700 of those operations and he's the best in the business." 
Strawberry was on the dis­
abled list twice this year after problems and have another Strawberry's problems began an injury-shortened 1991 cam­year like this. during a road trip to New York paign when he hit 28 homers "There's a lot of people who on May 8, with what then was with 99 RBis in 139 games. have to pay for my year this described as back spasms. He year. It's been a very frustrating returned to the lineup in 
'The most important thing is year, so I've got to regroup and Montreal and hit a home run. that it will give him time to get get healthy." before his condition deterio­ready to come to spring training rated. 

and rebound and have a great ·year for us," Lasorda said. 
We invite you to attend
"This club needs him, they've paid him handsomely, and I 
First United Methodist Church
don't want him to come to spring training worrying about 
333 N. Main St., South Bend 
back problems." 
(corner of Main and Madison) The 10-year veteran, who en­

With parking available behind the church tered the season with 172 home runs over the past five years, 
8:45 a.m.-Informal Celebration Service
said his back felt fine. But the the disk was still pressing on 
11:00 a.m.-Traditional Service the nerve and was causing pain 
9:45 a.m.-Sunday School for all ages
in his right leg and numbness in his toes. 
Dr. Allan Byrne, Senior Pastor 
"I feel 1ike I'm making the right decision now to have the 
Tim Robison, Music Director I Organist 
surgery as soon as possible," he 
Cindy Solum, Christian Education Director 
said...I don't want to come to spring training with these 
233-9463 

Attention Students! 
NBD Bank has 

you need! 

• 
No-Fee Checking and Savings Accounts •Loans 

•Computer 
Banking with NBD Express •AlMs 

• 
Extended Banking Hours 


Visit NBD Bank located a few blocks from the Notre Dame campus. 
NBDBank 
18083 S.R. 23 North 
• 273-1280 

-­G}
Member FDIC 
UiNDI!II 
Friday, September 11, 1992 
Young runners start season 
ByJONATHANJENSEN 
Sports Writer 

Who says a young team should ease into a new season? 
Certainly not the Notre Dame women's cross-country team. Coming off a disappointing sea­son that saw them finish second in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference, the Irish jump right into an exciting new year by hosting perennial national powerhouse Georgetown this Saturday morning. 
Some may say the Irish have a death wish. but more likely fifth-year coach Tim Connelly and the rest of the Irish harri­ers are just excited to see their long hours of training end, and get started on an optimistic year. 
The core of this year's squad will consist of a young but rela­tively experienced group of sophomores. Eva Flood, Emily Husted, Stefanie Jensen, Sarah Riley, and Becky Alfieri were not satisfied with leading the Irish all last season, as they have worked hard to take this team to another level. 
"These girls were really committed to improving over the summer," said Connelly. "They worked real hard over the summer and during the 
track season." 

Flood and Jensen finished one-two in nearly all of the Irish's meets last year, but this season it looks to be another story. 
"Any one of those girls could be our number-one runner," noted Connelly, "They've all been running really well." 
Leading this stellar group o runners will be the only senior on the roster, team captain Lisa Gorski, as she has taken over the role of departed senior Diana Bradley. Gorski has in­stilled a team-oriented attitude this season, and the Irish hope that will translate into more wins. 
"If we are going to be suc­cessful, we're going to have to run as a team," remarked Connelly, ··After all it is a team sport." 
Add to this group junior Laura Guyer and two more sophomores, Maureen Kelly and Kristine Kramer, and the Irish have a solid lineup from top to bottom-a lineup they think can contend against 
teams  like  number-six  
Georgetown.  
"If  we  run  well,"  said  

Connelly, "I think it will show that we can run with anybody, and I think we can." 
EL. ED. MAJORS MEETING MANDATORY 
For all current and new 
students of the department 
Thursday, Septetnber 17 6:00 --7:30 p.m.. 
SMC Science Bldg. Room 105 St. Mary's 
THE CLASSIC TALE OF LOVE AND ADULTERY IS NOW THE MOTION PICTURE EVENT OF THE SEASON. 
"TRIUMPHANT! ONE OF THE YEAR's 
MOST PROVOCATIVE FILMS! The incomparable Isabelle Huppert is astounding:• -Peter Travers, ROlliNG STONE Magazine: 
"SEE IT!" 
-Vincent Canby, ffiE NEW YORK TIMES 
"ONE OF THE YEAR's 10 BEST!" 
-Michad Wilmington, LOS ANGELES TIMES 
THE SAMUEL GOLDWYN COMPANY AND MARIN KARMITZ 
/'rnntl 
ISABELLE HUPPERT 
If~/ 
C I NEMH AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
7:15 ' 9:45 

Friday, September 11, 1992 The Observer page 21 • 
On September 12'h, Make Michigan Green With Envy 

Become A Part of The Green Monster 
Wear "The Shirt" to the game on Saturday. Only $12.00 . 
. Available at:  The Hammes NO Bookstore  
The LaFortune Information Desk  
The Varsity Shop The Morris Inn Gift Shop  


----~ -------­
---~----­
L1 
'I 


-l'_ 
( \ 
• 
{_\ 
,, 
~ 
.i 
)> 
,, 
l :I
l 
,1. 
) 
I~~ 
'u .• ~I ! ~ 
)
x 
H 
,I 
}_ ~••.! 
\\ 
l.' 
)j 
l! 
u 
i ~ 
) 
') 
·' 
·.:: 
.1 
i{ 
4 
~­
,i
AI 
') 
r, 
,.,
1.· .., 
; 
~ 
~ 

JJ 
page 22 
WGB a warm-up for Rutgers in women's soccer 
BY GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
A key weekend approaches for the Notre Dame women's soccer team, with matchups against Wisconsin-Green Bay and nationally ranked Rutgers. 
The matchup with Wisconsin­Green Bay appears to be a tuneup for the important matchup with the Scarlet Knights the following day, but Irish coach Chris Petrucelli feels that Saturday's game cannot be overlooked. 
"They are an improved team from last year, and have a very strong defense," commented Petrucelli. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay hasn't shown much of the character­istics Petrucelli gives them credit for, losing both its first games by wide margins, with a defeat at the hands of Wright St. looking the most unimpres­sive. 
Coach Aldo Santaga will not have a empty cupboard when he visits Alumni Field. Returning offensive force Tanya Greenwood anchors a tough offense which also boasts the skills of midfielder Tracy Ropper. 
All eyes will be on the Rutgers matchup Sunday, due to the national recognition both teams are receiving. Rutgers enters the game sitting at the 20th spot in the rankings while Notre Dame holds onto the 18th slot in the polls. 
Rutgers coach Charlie Duccilli feels that this is an opportunity for his team. 
"We have a great chance to move up in the rankings, and prove to ourselves that we can play with the best teams in the country," added Duccilli. 
Rutgers is led by goalkeeper Saskia Weber, who is regarded by many as the best keeper in the nation, and is a leading candidate for national player of the year. 
"Saskia is the strongest part of our team. She is the leader of our defense, and something teams must adapt to," added 
Baptism 
The Observer 

The Observer/David Hungeling There's no looking back for the 18th ranked Irish soccer squad. 
Du~cilli. "If!h~re is a better c~I­leg1ate goahe m the country I d like to see her." 
Webe~ has live.d up to her reputatiOn, allowmg only one goal in the two games Rutgers has played this season. In the matchup with Xavier she held the Musketeers scoreless, and made a number of saves which Duccilli called "incredible." 
Petrucelli is also aware of Weber's talents and realizes that his team must play up to the challenge. 
"She is an outstanding goalie," he said. "Our defense must play strong, because we cannot expect to score a lot of goals. Our defense is going to have to shut them down." 

Despite the strong Scarlet Knight defense, Petrucelli is confident in his team. "We feel that we can play with any team in the country and the past two games have shown that," added the Irish coach. 
One advantage the Irish may have is in the scheduling. Rutgers must play Wisconsin on Saturday, another ranked opponent. A tough game with the Badgers could leave a tired opponent for the Irish, a possi­bility which Duccelli rules out. "With two tough games in a row, this weekend is really im­portant for us. There is no question that this will be a great game, and I feel we will be ready for it." 
NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS CATCH 'EM!! 

Join the Men's Soccer team Friday and help get their home 
schedule off to a BANG! Free 
FIREWORKS compliments of 
Centel Cellular after the Irish 
take on Illinois-Chicago. 
Friday, 7:30pm Alumni Field 
Join the Irish Volleyball 
team as they host the 
MCC-MAC Challenge 
this weekend. The Irish 
will play both Friday and 


Saturday at 8:00pm in the JACC. 
You Are Invited to consider Sacramental Preparation 

Full Communion Confirmation 
in the Catholic Church 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE COME ..• 
~uww&~~~~~~mlia 
NCID~~ IIDmlll~ ffi~Iffl~ ~<IDirl1imm~ 
Baptism For unbaptized people interested in joining the Catholic Church 
Full Communion For baptized Christians interested in Full Communion in the Catholic tradition 
Confirmation For Catholics interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation 

Questions? call or visit Campus Ministry Badin Hall Office 239-5242 

Friday , September 11, 1992 
Women's hit the links at Illinois State Invitational 
By DAVE STUMM 
Sports Writer 

The 1992 women's golf team season tees off this weekend as they head South to the Illinois State Redbird Course Invitational. 
The Invitational begins with a 36 hole-shotgun start Saturday morning and continues with 18 holes on Sunday. Teams will bring their top five golfers, as opposed to the usual six, with the top four best scores to be used. 
The Irish expect tough com­petition from Big Ten schools Michigan State, Illinois, and Purdue, as well as from Illinois State, Iowa State, and Northern Illinois. 
Coach Tom Hanlon is confi­dent that the team will improve this season. Senior captain Kathy Phares, a three-time monogram winner and 1992 student-athlete award winner, leads the team into this week­end's tourney. Hanlon feels she is "the team's most consistent golfer." 
Hanlon will also be looking to juniors Crissy Klein and Alicia Murray, sophomore Katie Shannon, and freshman Julie Melby this weekend. 
"Crissy, Alicia, and Katie are all strong competitors. And I think Julie will be a real asset to our team for the next four years." 
BBut entering this year's sea­son, the team will be missing one of its top returning players, junior Denise Paulin. Still slowed from open-heart surgery in July, Paulin has re­ceived clearance from her doctor to play and should re­turn to the team soon. 
Hanlon also hopes for contri­butions this year from sopho­mores Katy Cooper and Sara Ruzzo, and freshman Jocelyn Tremblay. 
"We're on the rise," says Hanlon. "We're getting closer and closer to teams who have beaten us badly in the past. We've met our team objectives each of the past four years, and this year we're hoping to break 
308. As soon as we hit 300, we 'II be ready to win some tournaments." 

ONE·DOZEN 
~IIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~IIIIaJiiiUIII,
mntthnnhnnnmnnnmnm nnnnnm-nrnnfull n. mV 

ous 

If you can't decide on just one of our meat, seafood or cheese sauces. choose any two of a dozen delectable choices. Being indecisive has never been so rewarding. Entrees include soup or salad and freshly baked San Francisco sourdough bread, and lots of fun. 
s
e a 

SpaghettiWarehouse 
Great Italian Food. All-American Fun. 
501 N. Niles Ave. • The Works Hotel: 232-4414 
-! 
; 
j 
I 
~ 

Today
Friday, September 11, 1992 
page 23 

Where can you get the best coverage of... 
Name Address 

~ 
IG~~.c;.;;~~~\ " City State ZIP 

-~~..'--~.-··t!.'"C'I!··" ·, 
"' )£~:il Subscription desired: $50 for one year 0 o~n, . · .. ~..'/ ~ $30 for a semesterD 
Please Include a check with your 
.. ••
subscription.

~2-:--:(_fj_:~ 

and
Mail to: The Observer 
P.O. Box Q 
Features
Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Calvin and Hobbes 
lot£~  \5 iooR P,._r£R, SUSI£.  B'l IWC. W~'i.  '{OIJ CA~ STOP  
~~ GI::JJ'V.  ~RE.  IS '{OJR..S,  SIGN\~G '<OOR. WOR~ ''CI\L\/1~.  
CAL"IN.  ~'{ cr \>ES\I~'f;  MD l  11-ll~\<.  
'lOOR 1\~t:. '«OOLD B£. B~R  
s~~~  51\)0'{I~G  ll-1~~  
DAAVJ\1-lG •or~\C\1\l  00\t>..R'{  
S£P-.L<:.''  T -rut. s::mn~ .  

I 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
nti\\S RIG"T. B:l'( Of 
'VESn~'( ·' 

by Bill Watterson 
YOtl.( ~Til'l~
E'J£RioNE I 
\5 m1-{fo.'-4£
KNOW -rn1~KS 
'iOOR 0£51\K'( 
~SMILE 
15 A. PRI\IA~ 
-rut>.T"S All. 
G~S.
Ct>.G£ IN 1\\E. 
PRIMA1t I-\C'J$E. 
BILL WATTERSON 

DOWN 
1 Naval academy 1 Defensive ditch 2 Rudeness
student / 3 Got rid of7 Argentine por1 4 Lady deer14 Cooking_ ingredient 5 Small map within
15 StructGral peculiar-i...ty in horses, etc. a larger one l61valuate 
6 To be: Lat. 17 Hot day 7 Moved like a 18 Surpass hairline 
19 Most weird 8 City in Michigan 21 Pitcher's statistic 
9 Spanish painter 22 For fear that . 10 Quite old (abbr.) 24 Probability 11 Sew again 
25 Mornings 12 Cool drinks 26 Shot of liquor 
13 Gumbo ingredient27 Sink the putt 17 Move ·sideways
(2 wds.) 
20 Give support29 Boundless 23 Certain cocktail 31 Violent woman 25 Jock35 Picturesque 26 -league36 -Curtis 27 Sound of a drunkard37 Financial defense 28 Like some carsmechanism 30 Way of conducting38 Miss Colbert oneself 41 Form a hard 
32 Repay an injury
coating 33 Fascinates 
43 Groundkeeper's aid 34 Cry
44 Beat mercilessly 36 Small dwelling 46 leveret 38 Lunar sights 4 7 Creme -creme 39 Gruesome 48 Part of BMOC 40 Befuddled 
49 Surfeit 42 Ski lodge 51 India -44 French relative 53 Strengthened by 45 Building wing 
heating 47 Airline company 55 Peruvian mammal 48 Part of Einstein's 57 Type of clam equation 58 New York island 49 Identical 59 Certain singing 50 Russian news 
groups 
agency 60 Most sensible 52 German philosopher 54 What trenchermen can do 56 Search for gold 
collegiate crossword 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

Daddy long-leg jerks 
CAMPUS 
Friday 

7:15 & 9:45p.m. Film: "Madame Bovary." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 7:30p.m. Folk Dancing. Club House, Saint Mary's College. Sponosred by SMC. 
Saturday 9:30a.m. Closed Meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous. Multipurpose Room, Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
7:15 & 9:45 p.m. Film: "Madame Bovary." Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art. 8 & 10:30 p.m. Film: "White Men Can't Jump," Cushing Auditorium. 
MENU  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Pasta Bar Meatballs Broiled Turbot  Grill Bar New England Bar Pork Loin  

-

t 
ll 
1 
1 jl
i 
\I 
J >{ 
' ~ 
lf{
,. 
! ; ' 
1:.,'. 
I : ):'; 
I ' \. 
f .. 
'I
ll 
l i 
I 
\ 
" 
~ 
'r 
1• 
.,,: r 
!'I 
~! 
l 
J 
I .I 
;I 
~ . 
ij ' 
f 
i 
r4 
~ 
.) 
~ 
(I 
·' 
I \ 
'·I. 
.( 
' 
I 
. ~ 
1 
l \ 
p t
I 
J 
i' J 
I J, I ' .
I i. 
' ~ . ' 
page 24 
ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
.... .­
.t~·'·
'~*"'~ -~ . / ~\P'i 

Cheap Shots 
.~Y·~®h 
Irish men's soccer ready to make a big national splash 
The alumni have arrived. 
The television crews are here. 
A monumentally important sporting 
event is about to occur, and you can be 
a part of it. 
And it won't cost you as much as the 
football ticket I am selling. Don't worry, 
Bubba, the seat isn't in the student 
section. 
Tonight, the 20th-ranked Notre Dame 
men's soccer team takes on Illinois­
Chicago at Alumni Field, in the first 
home game of its 1992 season. 
The Irish, who this year make their 
first appearance in a preseason top 20 
poll, are a very young team on the 
brink of something very big. Led by 
senior captain and sweeper Mario 
Tricoci, Notre Dame is 0-2, but don't let 
the record fool you. 
The team's losses came against UCLA 
and Duke, both of which are 
traditional powerhouses in collegiate 
soccer. Both were defensive struggles. 
And both were decided by only one 
goal. 
Coach Mike Berticelli, who starts two 
freshmen and six sophomores, refuses 
to excuse his team's losses with youth. 
Instead, he prefers to push his team to 
beat the best squads that they will play. 
American soccer has come a long 
way since today's college players first 
strapped on a pair of shin guards, and 
the level of the American game 
continues to progress. 
The Irish program is a microcosm of 
that national story. Berticelli's group, 
like the national team, is dominated by 
young stars. Competition for spots on 
the Notre Dame team gets tougher 
every year, as numerous talented 
recruits bump established athletes 
from the starting lineup. The same 
story plays itself out with the American 
team. 
In two years, the United States will 
host what is, arguably, the world's 
biggest sporting event. Americans 
arrogantly believe that the Olympics 
(those amateur contests which we have 
bought) or the Superbowl is the 
premier contest of athletic skill on 
planet Earth. 
But for the vast majority of sports 
fans in Europe, South America, Asia 
and Africa, the World Cup is the end all 
and be all of athletic competition. Fans 
in both Ghana and Argentina follow the 
World Cup with equal fervor, as their 
teams try to earn the Cup for the 
people. 
The American team has made great 
strides in recent years. Once openly 
laughed at in the international arena, 
the U.S. team has quieted its critics, 
and hopes to make a splash at 
American arenas in 1994. 
As the U.S. national team is on the 
cusp of World Cup history, Notre Dame 
men's soccer team is on the brink of 
something very big in collegiate soccer. 
And you can be a part of it tonight. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•women's soccer  
see page 22  
•Fore! Women's golf  
see page 22  
•celts sign X  
see page 18  

Sports 
Friday, September 11, 1992 
MCC, MAC collide in women's volleyball 
By DAN PIER Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team is excited to be 5-0 and ranked 20th in the nation. What's more exciting is that the Irish feel that they still have plenty of room for improvement. 
"We've won some pretty tough matches and still aren't playing anywhere near our potential," said head coach Debbie Brown. "Hopefully, we'll just keep getting a little bit better each match." 
Notre Dame will have two op­portunities to improve this weekend, as they face Mid-America Conference foes Ohio and Western Michigan in the MCC­MAC challenge. The Irish will meet the Bobcats Friday night and the Broncos Saturday night, with both matches start­ing at 8:00. There will be additional matches, featuring Notre Dame's fellow Midwest Collegiate Conference repre­sentative, Loyola of Chicago, at 5:30 each night. 
Ohio compiled a 14-21 overall record last year. Led by last year's kill leader Kea Peterson, the Bobcats are off to a 3­1 start this year. 
"Ohio's strength is their offense," said Brown. "They are strong at the net, but we should match up with them well." 
Western Michigan head coach Rob Buck, starting his 15th season pacing the Bronco sidelines, led his team to a 21-9 record a year ago. Senior middle blocker Kim Lee and junior setter Kris Penza will lead their team's attack. 
"Western is traditionally a very strong team," Brown commented. "Kim Lee has All-America potential, so we will be keying on stopping her. She needs to play well for them to have a good night." 
Brown is surprised by the Broncos' 0-2 start, but still feels they will be the stronger opponent for the weekend. 
"I think they are a good team, but they play between the two conferences. other a lot," Brown reported. "This is just got off to a slow start," Brown said. "The schools from our conferences just a way to bring four teams together 
This is the first year of tournament have traditionally played against each and have some fun." 
Irish hope to crack win column vs. Illinois-Chicago 

By JASON KELLV Sports Writer 

It's not getting any easier for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
After heartbreaking losses to No. 4 UCLA and No. 13 Duke to begin the regular season last weekend, the Irish battle Illinois-Chicago in tonight's home opener at Alumni Field. 
Although the Flames can't hold a 
candle to UCLA or Duke, they are a dangerous offensive team. 
Senior Mike Regas is their main threat after notching four of Illinois-Chicago's six goals in their opening game. 
"Regas is dangerous in every aspect of the game, but the r·est of their team is also very talented," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "We're going to have to contain their goal scoring abilities to win 
,, 
the game." 

Wednesday's storm gave the Irish some extra time to prepare for the Flames. They were supposed to travel to Chicago to play Loyola, but the heavy rains forced the game to be cancelled. 
"It gave us a chance to rest and recover from last weekend," Berticelli said of the rain out. "It shouldn't have much of a psychological effect on us. We just have to be prepared to play." 
With a relatively inexperienced defense, preparation will be a key for the Irish to shut down Illinois-Chicago's powerful offense. 
Senior captain Mario Tricoci leads the . Notre Dame defense, with senior Kevin Pendergast and junior Mike Palmer still learning the ropes. 
Both players moved to defense from the midfield during the preseason and they have proven their ability to shut down some of the nation's top players. 
Against UCLA, they held Olympians Joe-Max Moore and Zak Ibsen scoreless in the 1-0 defeat. 
"It's a tough adjustment to make when a player moves to a new position," Berticelli added. "But they dealt with UCLA and how well we shut down their scorers with definitely be the key to tonight's game." 
The Irish have some potent offensive threats of their own. Sophomores Jean Joseph and Tim Oates were the team's two top scorers in 1991 and freshman Bill Lanza has scored the team's only goal so far this season. 
If the offense can create some fireworks and the defense continues its impressive play, expect the Irish to break into the win column tonight. 

September 5 . September 12 •· September 19 . . September 26 · October 3 
October 10 October 24 October 31 November 7 November 14 November 28 
at Northwestern MICHIGAN at Michigan State PURDUE STANFORD at Pittsburgh BRIGHAM YOUNG at Navy BOSTON COLLEGE PENN STATE at Southern Cal 
.., 42-7 < 
12:35 EST' 
3:30 EDT 
12:35 
EST 

12:35 
EST. 


7:30 EDT>, 
12:35 EDT , . TB.A.. 
1:35 
EST 

1:35 
EST 


5:00 PST 

The Observer/Brendan Regan 
H a t:. ~c: ·:-DA-yY7E c:_-;.,JI " t-0 J.-1//g', 61'-f . 
v, z_ ') -;4C / s-(5 ~~?/e Y"Jr]~ n-t.. ) 
Irish Football 

A Supplement to The Observer 


Jerome Bettis and the Irish look to avenge last year's loss to Michigan. , 
page 2 Friday, September 11 , 1992 
GAME NOTES 
THE GAME: Notre Dame· Michigan (0-0 in '92~ 10-2 in '91). 

KICKOFF: 12:35 p.m. EsT~~ 
TV and RADIO: NBc··{Tom Hammond, 
Cris Collinsworth and John Dockery 
will provide national television 

_ overage. Mutual Radio Network CT(!Il 
ob,erts, Tom Pagna) will broadcf{s · 
the game to a national radio audience:~ 
ICKETS: ·Nt>tre · I)airie Stadlu'-' _-· 59.075lis sold out•. 
ANKINGS: Notre DamefJ:\P-3rd, U~~ Today/CNN-3rd.. Northwf;is~atn; AP'()tJl; 
.::::::~~-te:::~ 
l4~9)i,but.f'i()tt;¢_Dame has -wmt··four o 
tbe'list_five !ii.C'etings. . "' ­
Michigan nas':not won in·N~tte l)am. 
,tadi urn sine~ l986. a 24,.2$ Nl.~tl)ty ~ 
u Holtz'sf~t .gafil_e as Itisl:\GQ.~ch. 
THE LAST TIM~; Michigan tp-pped Notre Dame 24·14 in Ann Arbor las 
· season. 
Elvis Grbac led the Wolverines to victory with a near perf~c performance; as be <;ompleted 20 .:>f22 passes for 195 yards; · Tbe big play in the game was a i()~~ dowri, fourth q\larter 25-rY~t.di 
.. . . . .. . . • -w;.·· 
· ouchdown pass from. Grbac iti · Desmond Howard. · 
FYI:. NO-tte> Dame has won 26 of its . .?9 >game$.·. played i!lt<Notre Dam>: . tadium. · · · · ··· .•. , .. . . < 0­
Tomortow's gam& \vill: PC t}le~;Ir,is});t,i 
1OJ~~:r~~;,~:#llii~,,~9il~
Mike Trgc:;ya~;(pJa.~d at Michigan fro : 1977-80, and spent 1984...8!J,there as . graduate assistant. · 
Rick Mirer attended quarterback camp at Michigan and met then­Michigan coach Bo Scbembechler in the Wolverines' locker room at age 10. 
SCHEDULES 

A Product of His Environment 
Bettis uses his Detroit-bred toughness on the field 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 

It is hard to imagine Jerome Bettis being the smallest person on the football field, but when he was growing up on Aurora Street on Detroit's west side, this was the case. 
"Back home. I was always the little guy. My older brother (Johnnie) never gave me a chance to play," the Irish fullback explained. "Whenever I got to play, I'd end up getting knocked in the head. So, I had to toughen up." 
Football was not the only area where. Bettis had to be tough. 
"I feel it's important to inflict pain. If I don't do that, I don't play aggressively." 
-Jerome Bettis 
"You were bound to know someone that was into the drug game, and you could be easily influenced if you weren't strong. Fortunately, my parents kept me out of that, and my brother (who is now working for a maintenance company) went the right way. He had a big influence on me," Bettis commented. 
This past summer Bettis returned the favor to a group of Detroit children, as he spent his four weeks at home work­ing in a police cadet program which helps underprivileged youths. 
"I worked with a group of about 20 kic!s and served as a mentor to them," Bettis said. "It gives the kids a chance to get involved in some fun things and let's them see they can have a successful future." 
Despite his kindness and personable disposition off the field, the toughness which Bettis learned from his Motor City upbringing is evident in his running style. 

The Observer/John Rock Jerome Bettis, here against USC, has something to prove tomorrow versus Michigan. 
"I feel it's important to inflict pain. If I don't do that, I don't play aggressively," said the 247 -pound fullback about his attitude toward would-be tacklers. 
"I need to hit someone to get my adrenaline going. Without that, I'm no longer a bruising fullback, I'm just 
another  fullback  trying  to  be  a  
tailback."  
Though he is  not  trying to  be  a  

tailback, this season the Heisman candidate has seen some time there, teaming with Dean Lytle, a 221-pound former linebacker to form one of the largest backfields in the country. 
"Tailback requires a lot more lateral things, and Coach (Lou) Holtz says that's not my best forte. I can't jump from point A to point B quickly, like (starting Irish tailback) Reggie (Brooks) can. It takes a little more for me to get over there," Bettis said of his new part­time role. 
"But, it's a good feeling. Usually, I don't run behind anyone." 
Holtz, who "didn't expect Jerome to be a great one", has nothing but good things to say about the man he now refers to as "Coach Bettis." 
"Jerome is one of the great leaders on this team," the seventh-year Irish coach said. "It's incredible how much (he) helps the others. He's taken Lytle and (Ray) Zellars under his wing. 
"He is an excellent competitor, and off the field, he is one of the happiest, most personable guys on the team. 
"The only problem we have with Jerome is that he's always running uphill because the field tilts his way," Holtz joked. 
Whether Bettis is at fullback or tailback, when Bettis takes the field tomorrow against sixth-ranked Michigan he will be trying to prove something. Not to the national television audience, but to his friends dressed in maize and blue. 
"(Michigan flanker) Walter Smith has given me a lot of problems." Bettis commented. "All year I've had to hear, 'What happened to that great offense?'" 
"At the end of the year, we came on, but it was too late." 
Smith, a sophomore, who has also seen some time on defense at Michigan, and Bettis were teammates at Mackenzie High School in Detroit, where they paired up in the backfield. 
"He always had the open field moves, and I would put my shoulder down and get in there," Bettis recalled. 
The two friends, however, will not hold anything back when playing against each other. 
Bettis called Smith's move to offense "the best decision he (Smith) ever made." 
The high school teammates almost continued their careers together in Ann Arbor, as Bettis came "very close" to be­ing a Wolverine. During his senior year, Bettis narrowed his choices to Michigan and Notre Dame, but did not make his final decision until the morning he announced it. 
"Both schools thought I was coming because I did nothing do discourage either one. 
"The night before the press conference my dad brought me two hats-a Notre Dame one and a Michigan one. l woke up and put the Notre Dame one on," Bettis said. 
However, he still is not positive why he did so. 
"Maybe it was divine intervention," Bettis guessed. "The Lady on the Dome said it was in my best interests to come here." 
Friday, September 11 , 1992 page 3 
Corwin Brown is emotional leader of Michigan defense 
By JOSH DISCER emotional guy. He complements remember. No one ever could The Michigan Daily me very well. I lead by get that skinny kid's name right. example, and he gets everyone Rrown was in the 1Oth grade at 
The Saturday warriors dress jacked up emotionally. Julian High School in Chicago, methodically in the Michigan "I really like having him out and all the other guys were locker room before a big game -there because we work seniors on defense and they all which, in an 11-game season at together. After a great play he had nicknames. a major college football flies in screaming and yelling, "Everybody always called me powerhouse, is every game. pumping up the guys." Corn, they couldn't pronounce 
The players follow a routine, "I don't do that much yelling," Corwin for nothin'. That's how to each his own. Certain Brown cautions. He would it is in the city, with slang and superstitions, unconscious prefer not to be made out to be stuff. This guy, Lou, he was habits. The tape, the pads, the some crazed lunatic, though like, 'Well, you know, you're jersey, then the tears. The that mentality certainly fits the small. You look just like a little tears? job description for a defensive flake, anyway, so we're gonna 
"I don't know what it is," back. call you 'Cornflakes."' Brown says, "It's something that "But when we start hittin' I And thus, the strange I live by-I'm an emotional might let out a few screams," he nickname was born. person anyway. But what'll continues, adding with a smile: Cornflakes, who is now usually happen before the game is I'll "When we start hittin'-that's just called 'Flakes,' opted to lift get real intense and I'll think when I really start going." weights instead of playing about what I have to do..." Even in preseason drills, basketball in high school. He 
And then he'll scream and yell Hutchinson says, citing an now stands at 6-foot-2, 193 and cry real tears of emotional instance last week during two­pounds, hardly a little flake anticipation. All before the a-days. anymore. team takes the field. "At practice the other day, Just ask some of the receivers 
"You know it's just a way of Corwin called the defense over in the Big Ten. Or even those me expressing myself and in between drills and told us, on his own team. Brown had showing a little bit of 'I'm gonna get emotional now. I established himself as one of the excitement," he says, "Some love all you guys.' most feared hitters in the people just sit down and they "Before the games he gets all college game. meditate. I just express myself worked up and cramped up," "He's gotten me in the rib in a little bit different way." Hutchinson says. "He gets so cage a few times," says 
Which is fine by senior tackle worked up and wound up that Wolverine tight end Tony Chris Hutchinson, who was he gets in a big ball. He cries McGee, holding his right side selected along with Brown as and says 'I love you guys.' It got and laughing. "He thrives on the team's defensive captain for funny toward the end of the (his reputation). If he gets a big the 1992 season. season." hit in the first quarter, he'll 
"I'm glad he's here," It's funny, now, for Corwin probably get 20." Hutchinson says. "I'm not an Brown to look back and "I don't really try to just hit people hard. What I try to do is, every time I get a chance to lay a lick on a receiver-especially if he's going to catch the ball in my area-l want to let him know that I'm going to be there, or at least that if he's going to catch the ball, he's going to have to pay a price." 

All that gets envisioned in Brown's pre-game ritual. 
"I'll think about myself making a big play. Take Jerome Bettis. I may think about Bettis poppin' through the line, and he's corralled, and I can just come up as hard as I can and hit him, and maybe he'll fumble the ball or I'll knock him down hard and I can get up and look at him and maybe put a little fear into him." 
"At least at Michigan, I'd say that free safety might be the hardest position," Brown said. "It's a mistake-free position where you have to always get everyone playing the right defense. It's also a place where you can't give up the big plays." 

Corwin Brown, himself, has come a long way. He made one of the most important decisions of his life when he chose to accept a football scholarship at Michigan, opting to take his chances here, rather than step 

in with literal guarantees of 
playing elsewhere. 
Next year, Brown says he will head off to law school if the NFL opportunities don't present themselves. There are more important things than football for Brown, whose parents are both teachers. 
And still there is the football. The first game on the schedule loomed on the horizon all summer. 
"You know what, it really is sort of a must win in a way," Brown said last week. "See, what happens when you play Notre Dame to start the season is, it becomes your focus over the summer. 'Get ready for Notre Dame.' That's a game that we want to win enough, even though the Rose Bowl, the Big Ten, that's our main focus. 
"Especially for the seniors, though, we want to go down and beat Notre Dame in South Bend. That would really get my season going." 
Going in the direction of a national championship? Brown interrupts the question before it is complete. 
"I can tell you right now...I know what you're gonna say. This year we want it. We want it," he says. 

'Defivering tlie Perfect Pizza! I -1 -1-4;L-­-, I 4--1-4~ L---, ITAfrNiGillsPEciALI1 -arge 1 1 -arge 1 1 9p.m.-close I I 1 Topping I I 1 Topping I I 1-1411 Large I 1 1 1 11 Pizza Pizza 1 Topping I 1 1 1 1 $695 $ 95 Pizza II -+Tax I I 19-+Tax I I $595 I I · . .... I I .. . .....L I I . +Ta~ I Additional Torpmgs .95t each Addmonal Tnppmgs .95¢ each Additiunal Tuppmgs .95t each i"QP1.._._______ ....________ ...._ ______ _fiNot Valid With Any Other G1upon .J ~-lot Valid With Any Other Coupon .J ~-lot Valid With Any Other G>upon .J HOURS .M~ TI1,11~ooam ,1:OOamFast Hot Ferfect Fri~Sat ~ 11:OOam ~ 3:00am Sun,Nonn , 1:OOam  Game Day Special! Every time the Irish score a touchdown, the first 10 callers to say ''Notre Datne Scored!'' Buy one pizza and get one free! Free Delivery  

page4 Friday, September 11 , 1992 
Both teams prepare NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH ROSTER 
for trench warfare 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Traditionally, Notre Dame­Michigan games are battles won in the trenches. The Wolverines continued that trend last season, coming away with a 24­14 victory that was not as close as the score indicated. 
This season, both teams once again feature mammoth offen­sive lines and talented running back corps to run over and around opposing defenders. 
"They (Michigan) run with a lot of power, and I don't mean the name of their tailback," said Irish coach Lou Holtz, referring to Ricky Powers, who ran wild over the Irish last year with 38 rushes for 164 yards. 
Indeed the Michigan rushing attack is powerful, with return­ing fullback Burnie Leggette complementing Powers in the Wolverine backfield. Adding to the Michigan power attack are tailback Tyrone Wheatley and fullback Dennis Washington. 
But the core of the Michigan running game is Powers, a ju­nior who was ranked as the best prep player in the country during his senior year in high school. The Wolverines are 10-0 in games in which he runs for over 100 yards. 
Powers may not even be the biggest weapon behind the Michigan offensive line. Senior quarterback Elvis Grbac, who picked apart the Notre Dame secondary last year, returns with both his arm and his lead­ership ability intact. 
Grbac completed 22 of 24 passes in last season's matchup with the Irish, and, on fourth and one from the Notre Dame 25, threw up a prayer to the back corner of the end zone that eventual Heisman Trophy winner Desmond Howard miraculously caught. 
Though Howard is missing from the Wolverines' receiving corps this season, Michigan nonetheless has a stable of tal­ented pass-catchers awaiting Grbac's occasional throw. 
"When you look and see {Derrick) Alexander is a second­string player it tells you they have excellent people at that {wide receiver) position," said Holtz. 
Starting in front of Alexander is sophomore flanker Walter Smith. Smith, who went to high school with and is a close friend of Irish fullback Jerome Bettis, is expected to be Grbac's main target this season, while fellow sophomore Felman Malveaux starts at split end. 
But the key unit for the Michigan offense is the Wolverine line. Michigan re­turns three of five starters from its mammoth 1991 line, which blew immense holes through the Irish defensive front in last season's game, giving Grbac enough time to throw for 195 yards and the rushing unit holes big enough to gain 233 yards. 
"They're back from last year," said Holtz. "And they dominated the line {of scrimmage) last year." 
Michigan loses only 325­pound tackle Greg Skrepenak and center Matt Elliot from that line. But despite even the absence of Skrepenak's sheer mass, the Wolverines have lost little. They return an immense unit, but sacrifice little agility despite their total weight, which is about 1,430 pounds. 
Trying to crack this wall of muscle, bone and flab will be the Irish defensive line, led by junior tackle Bryant Young. The Irish had little if any luck against the Wolverines' offen­sive line last season, and Holtz remains concerned about the play of his defensive front. 
"We have some concerns about defense," he said. "I was concerned by our ability to stop the run and our ability to rush the passer. 
"Our offense and our kicking game are committed to having a good defense. But I don't know if our defense is committed." 
In recent years, Notre Dame­Michigan games have been hard-fought contests, decided by a big play. In 1989, Raghib "Rocket" Ismail's two kickoff returns for touchdowns were the difference. In 1990, a pass that bounced off of Ismail's hands into Lake Dawson's ended up being the big play. And last season, that fourth­and-one fade route sealed Notre Dame's fate. 
This season, the Irish will need to stop the big play in order to win the ballgame. And Holtz's secondary is largely responsible for that task. 
"Our defensive secondary did a good job (against Northwestern) in one respect," said Holtz. "We did not give up a lot of big plays. Their biggest passing play was 23 yards and their longest run was 13." 
While the Irish will try to stop the Wolverines' big-play weapons, the Irish offensive line will try to knock some holes in a Michigan defensive front which completely smothered the Irish rushing attack last season. 
Notre Dame gained 78 yards on the ground in that contest, a far cry from the rest of the 1991 season, in which the Irish averaged 286.4 yards per game on the ground. 
The Wolverines return eight starters on defense, including two of their three-man defensive front: tackles Buster Stanley and Chris Hutchinson. 
Additionally, middle guard Ninef Agakhan started the last four games in 1991, including a Rose Bowl performance in which he recorded eight tackles for the Wolverines. 
Notre Dame's breakaway ability in the kick-return game, which was so instrumental when the Irish made runs at the national championship in 1988 and 1989, has virtually disappeared the last two years. Except for Ismail's kickoff re­turn touchdown against Miami in 1990 and Clint Johnson's in last season's Hawaii game, big plays in the kicking game have been absent from the Irish at­tack. 
But with Johnson back for kickoffs Saturday, and fire­cracker Mike Miller trying to blow through small holes in Michigan's punt defense, the Irish have two proven weapons on special teams. 
Additionally, Holtz maintains that Miller will grow into an in­strumental player in the Irish offensive scheme, and is still waiting for Dawson, who has made key catches for the Irish in the past, to reach full form after missing spring practice at home last season. 
"Lake just hasn't really blos­somed yet, even in practice," Holtz said. "In order for us to be a very productive offense we need Lake Dawson to be a pro­ductive receiver." 
For the Irish to win the rum­ble in Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday afternoon, they will have to emerge victorious from the battles in the trenches. If they cannot, they need to pray for a big play. 
1 Demel<. Mgye~
LeShane saddler 
Ricio: Mirar
j I
~~~n 
Jerome Bettis
~ Dean lvtle 
CfintJohnson
~ Jeff Burris 
10 

Adri~Jarrell
11 Tom cDonald 
Kevin endergast ~ 
~~ Tom Carter 
13 Matt Johnson 
14 Ray GriQQs
14 Stepnenf'ope 
I 

15 Kevin McOo\JQaf
Chri!> Parent1
~~ Joe s ith 
17 Brian~~ 
18 WadeSniitl'l 
J

18 Stefan Schroffner 
19 Mark Swenson 
19 Jim Guerre 
20 Mark Andr ski 
20 

21 ~ 
~~ Fl 
~ ~~onard
23 It
~on~re
~l 

~rt~~ord ~~ tBOznanski PK 
26 Marsh K 
26 ark Monahan 
RB

27 Tracy Graham
27 Oavii:t Fuentes F~ 
28 era· Hentrich 
29 Joh~ Covington
30 Nick Smith 31 
~8~~~DuBose
32 

33 Grea...Lane 
Rav-zeHars
rs Malt Adams 
Jeremy $ample 
I

Jim Ar~tabr)ght
Travis Davis Rick LQzano
Kevin carretta
I IMatt l,.ahey
RegQte BrOoks
~ Joe Babey
Alton Maiilen 
bi

~ Bill W<J~Jasy
43 Tim Klusas f~ 
44 Jim Fla!lioin DT 
Devon MCDonald DE
:g WR
JohnJ$ch
Brian at~n DE
~ Pete etCh LB 
Renaldo W_ynn
~ Oeswood Elsitty ~~ 
49 Anlhooy Peterson 
50 greg l::>'tec b~ 
Stuart Tyner
~~ Germaine Holden 
53 Jim Kordas ~ 
54 Justin Goheen LB 
AndrewMims 
~ Oliver Gibson 
8t 

Hunttev Baki<:h 
BE

Steve Armbruster 
~ Bernard Mannelly DT 
58 Jeremy Nau DE 
59 Lance Johnson 
60 Adam Kane 
60 Ro~Mihalko §~
61 

Timf\~.•
62 ~~~~h 
~ ~teve Misetic 
Lindsay Knapp
Todd Norman 
~ Mark Zataveski 
68 Jeff Aineu 
0~ vid Ou'ISI
~8 M~eMcGtinn 
I

71 Herbert Gibson 
72 

fl 
~ap~ 
f 
I 
6-0 
5-10 
6-2 
g-~1
5:11 
6-2 
5-8
6-g 
:11 -10
1
-11 
5-11 
6-1 
6·3 
6-2 
5·11 
~1 ~~ 
5-8
6:g
~-9 
6-3 
5·10 
6-1 
5-11 
~9 
s-~V 
6-4
t8
uo 
6-1 
6-2 
6-2 
6-2 5-10 
5-9
t.61 
t-n 
t.?o 
6-1 
u 
6-1 
6-3 
6-2 5-8 6·2 u 6-4 
6-1 
6-3 
5-11 
6·0 
t~ 
g_-4 
~
t2 
u 
6·0 
6-4 
6-4 
6-1 
6-3 
6-1t3
d 
t~ 
6-~
t4 
u 
t~ 
t! 
" 6-5 ~ 
4 
·1_§ 
,~1 
-1 
t4-~ 
P. 
6·3 
6·3 
t: 
t~ 
6-~ 
t8i 
215 
190 
~~ 
240 
180 
~3j
175 
168 
191 
192 
f~ 
193 
175 
195 
180 
1~ 
176 
164 
190 
190 
177 
186 
1~ 
176
201 
1~~ 
180 
197 
198 
186 
211 229 238 
185 
180 
218 
ru 
215 
192 
~~ 
165
211 
m 
224 
~~~ 
241 
185 
231 
237 
230
180 
~~ 
282
245 
271 
226 
270 
275 
217
205 
~~ 
277 
238
215 
286 
274 
238 
m 
I ~ 
~ 
~; ~~ 
-1
202 
m 
227 
275 
242 
218 
~A ~~ ~t ~ 
Fr 
f}: 
i. 
Jr. ~­
Jr. 
r. 
r.
~ r. 
i Fr. i
Jr. 
Jr. 
Fr. 
So. 
Jr. 
Sr. 
i t: r. 
r.
~ 
r. Fr. Fr. So. 
ifr. 
Fr. 
Sr. 
Jr. 
Fr. 
Sr. 
Jr. 
~· 
~: 
to. 
If: 
So. 
Jr. 
I Fr. Jr. 
~: 
Jr. 
Fr. 
Fr. 
t. 
tr. 
.-.~
'~, 
Fr. 
~: 
Jr. 
~: 
~· 
Jr. 
Fr. 
Fr. 
Indianapolis, Ind. 
Watertoo~_!oWa
Goshep1 md. 
I, N.C. 
Ckl$V, Penn. 
rolt, Mtch. 
evard. N.C. 
Altamonte SQ., Fla. Rock Hii!.,_~.C.
Athens, ua. estei'fleld, Mo. m ry, Conn.
~ ~rsburg, Fla. 
Kokomo Ind. niversfiY Park, Ill. 
hehalis, Wash. 
~ ompa.no Beach, Fla. 
Hinsaale 111. 
Vallejo, Calif. 
Laro6..Fia. Gaflatid, Texas 
Honolulu, Hawaii
i 
AntoniQ,_ Texas 
ndi~,Oh10
th nd, Ind. Ulsa, iL. 
longvieyv, Texcts 
WiUow Grove, PA Decatur, Ga. 
Coraopolis, Penn. lndian~is Ind. 
Bartlett, Ill. ' Manassas Va. 
Yorba Uiida. Calif. San Anaalo, Texas 
Arqola, 'Ill. 
ChiCBgo. fit. 
Weslaco, TX Godfrey, Ill. Win1!'tr H~v~n•. Fla. 
lflCinna!i Ohio 
tile, Wash. 
atland, Calif. 
Avstin, Texa$ 
Pittsbu.mh. Penn. 
South Berid, Ind. 
Woodridoe, IH. 
;tderbu"fu. Wis. 
rson.Catif. 
1rd:N.M. 
wavne. Ind. 
Neenah Wis.
T . 
Kent. 
exas 

ield, Mo. 
r WQ®, Ind. turgeon ~. Wis. 
aterson, N.J. 
New Yorkl N.Y
Council Buffs. Iowa 
Mokena. Ill. 
CtJicagq, m.
Ptnon, Ariz. ,
Mono ala. Penn. 
LaGra HI. To exa~> Anderson~ S.C. 
Chicagq, ul. Wextoid, Penn. 
Chattai'I()QOa Tenn. Rom®vilte+Ht. 
Carrollton, •exas 
Palos Hill~;. 111. Marietta, Ga. Hammond • .Jnd. 
Charlotte, .....c. 

Osceola, Ind. 
po1sett, Mass. reJ.Penn.
,Minn. 
g. Micll. 
Ill. Hunt. ach, Calif. 
RoslYn, Penn. 
Sterling, m. 
Boulder, Colo. 
~~Mo. 
.~"t"M'ma~ash.
• 1exas 
n, Mis11. 
· d,Calif. 
~~,D.C 

1i , Mich. '•ehemFkenn. 
~~Keitt. 
v-ity~ :re~as 
star, MO. ownsMillsyU. 
r ·~-·~··:'·:< '<". 
. emoi\'Tnd. · · · " 
ederal Way, Wash. 
Bedford, Tex.as 
Clearwater, Fla. 
Munster, Ind. 
=~·rn:
uaet.\11.
~rva~ Mel. -Jf!.~ison, Mich. ~nstonNIII. 
M~~~ls renn. 
hk;igo ~ts, HI.
terllng He ts, Mich.
~
arentum, enn. 

DEPTH CHART 
When the Irish have the ball 

Friday, September 11, 1992 page 5 
-. 
MICHIGAN WOLVERINES ROSTER 
1 -Derrick Alexander WR
Walter Smith ..
2 WR 
3 . Shonte Peoples ss 4 Nate Holdren IL8 5 C~wallace CB 6 ~rone Whadey TB 
7 fie Burch Q8 8 Dwayne Ware CB 9 Eddie Azcona p 9 Mel'culy !-(ayes WRtO Todd Collins as 12 Ricky Powers TB 13 Jason carr OB 14 Joshua. Wuerlel PK 15 ElvlsGrbac Q8 16 Peter Elezovlc PI< 16 .Jay RiemQcsma Q817 Deollo Anderson DB 17 Erik lovell Pf( 18 Chris Stapleton p 18 Amani Toomer Y.'R 19 Brian Foster FS 19 Remy Hamilton PK 20 Corwin Brown FS 21 Earl Little oe 
22 Ty Law RB 23 Woodrow Hankins RB 24 Dennis Washlflgton fB 25 Ron Buff FB 25 Lasker Smlth oa 
26 Ed Davis TB 27 StevE! King oe 28 Deoo Johnson· ca 29 Todd Richards WR 30 Jesse Johnson lB 3t. Torw Blakenship FS
32. 
Shawn Colllns 'OLB 33 CMFOGtEir FB 
33 Dorian Taylor OlB 34 Jean-~nus Charles DB 35 Michae litmann DB 36 Steve Morrison lt.B 37 Jarret Irons l8 38 Justin Carlson PI< 39 Adam Pratt DB 40 sumieLCa FB 
4t Greg Me s OL8 42 Tyrone Noble R8 43 Pat Maloney ss 44 Sergio Gasperonl TE 44 Mike Nadlicki OLB 45 Mike Vanderbeek LB 46 Marcus Walker lLB 
48 Dave Oobrelf · -· ILB 49 Jamie Mignon OLB Sf Steve Everitt c 
5t William Stuek OlB 52 Eric Graves · MG 53 Brion Smith MG 54 Paul Mann~ 00 
55 GannonD er · OT 56 Hl!fold Goodwin OL 57 Shawn MUier OG 58 Rob Vanderleest DT 59 Kerwin Waldroup . 01. 60 Buster StanleY or 61 Mike Sullivan OT 62 Ante. SkorpUt . OG 63 Mark Elliot ()1.. 64 Rod Payne Ol 65 Eric Wendt OL 66 Steve Rekow sld OT 
61. Mark Milia c 
68 JoeCocozzo "·oo69 Jon Runyan Ol 70 Rob Doherty OT 71 Mike lewis OT 12 OG

~Skene
73 Joe arinaro OT 74 Troy Plate or.· 75 Tom·Guynes Ol 76 -TrEtOt Zenk~wlcz Pl n TreJelle Jenkin$ QT18 Paul Barry OG 79 Tony Henderson MG 80 Marc BUJ1\holder re
:f .. ~., 8t .~--.Julian Sw~ -.~~ \iY:WR 
82 John Jlli!Ckln ·· TE 
84 Felman Malveaux .WR 
85 Damon Jones i"E 
86 Martin Davis OI.B 
88 Tony McGee TE 
90 Ninef Aghakhan MG 
91 Matt Dyson OLB 
92 Stephen Evans lB 
93 Ray Edm011115 MG 
94 Jason Hom Dl 
95 Bobby Powers llB 
96 WalterR:s DT 
97 Chris Hut •nsoo OT 99 • Mark Bolactl OL 6-2 5-11 -tH 
6-5 
6-0 
6-1 
6-4 5-11 
5-10 5-11 6-5 
6-0 
6-1 
u 
6-6 5·11 
&,5 
6-1 
6-0 
6-1 
6·3 5·10 6-1 6-2 
6-0 
6-0 5-9 . 5-10 6-1 6·0 
. 5-9 
6-1 6-2 5·11 5-9 
.&-(} 
6-3 
6-2 
&() 
5-11 
5-11 
. 6·4 6-2 S-11 6·2 6·1 
6-4 
6--1 6-2 6-2 6·2 
6-3 
5•11 6-3 6-6 6-5 6-4 6·3 6.·2 6-4 6-4 6·4 6-4 
6-4 
6-4 
6-2. 
6·1 
6--3 
6-2 
6-4 
6-5 
6-S 
6-3 
6-4 
6·9 6-8 6-5 
6-6 6-4 6-6 
6-5. 
6-5 
6-7 
6·3 6-2 6-3

...... -..a­
li-2 ti·O 6·6 6-3 
6-5 
6--3 
6-5 6-4 6-3 
6-5 
6--0 
6-1 6-2 6·6 
190 
190 
227 
Zl8 
193 
225 
205 
193 
189 
180 
223 
215 
200 148 230 191 232 190 194 
210 
180 184 195 193· 1135 185 180 
· H12 
215­
200 190 180 203 184. 
Z09 
.t95. 
21~ 
2.0.• 
210 
2001n 242 
215 
. 111 166 
230 
233 
1S5. 
194 
230 
220 
215 
234 
230 
241 
275 
225 
262. 260 
257 
265 
.275 269 
255
2SS. 
265 
298 
291 
230 
280 
270 
264 
268 
289 
270 298 270 294 
280
m­
285 
256l'~ 
298~·
274 
261 
239 
.· ·:taO . 242 166 215 
253 
241 2.'74 240 235 
278 
253 233 233 
249 
265 
Jr. 
So. Jr. So. Sr. So. Fr. Sr. Sf. 
Fr. 
So. Jr. 
Fr. 
Jr. 
Sr. 
Jr. 
Fr. Fr. So. Jr. 
Fr. 
So Of. 
Sr. Fr. Fr. 
Fr. 
Jr. 
Jr. So. 
Fr; 
Fr. 
So. 
Fr. 
. Jr. Jr. Fr. fr.
So.. Fr. 
Fr. So. 
Fr. 
So . 
Fr. 
Sr. 
So. 
Fr. 
Sf. So. 
. Jr. Fr.• So. 
Jr. 
Fr. 
Sr. Jr. Jr. Fr: Sf. Jr. 
Fr. 
So.. 
Fr. Fr. Jr. 
Fr. Fr. So. Fr. 
Fr. 
Sr. 
Jr. 
Sf. 
Ft. 
Sr. Jr.. Sr. 
Fr. 
Jr. 
Fr. 
Fr. 
Fr. 
Fr. 
So. Jr. 
•·So.· So. So. Fr. Sr. Sr. Jr. So. 
Fr. Fr. Fr. 
So. 
Fr. Sr. Fr. 
Oelroit, Mich. Detroit, Mlch. Atlanta. Ga. 
R~.Wash. 
Willingboro, N.J. 
lnkiter. Mich. 
Dayton, Ohio 
~.Ind. 
,Que. 
Houston, Texas Walpole. Mass. Akron, Ohio Ann Arbor. MiCh. Traverse Ctty. Mich. WillOughby Hills, OhiO 
~Hills. Mich. 
•Mich. 
YOUflQ&IOwn, Ohio 
Beavercn!lek, Ohio 
Springfield, IH. ConcOrd, Calif. C<llumbia. Mo. 
Boca Raton, Fla. Chltago. ill. Miami, Fla 
~.Penn. 
.. OWasSO. Okla. 
t.oralfl. QniO 
Otisville, Mich. 
.Ecorse, MICh. Detroit, Mich. Plilrri Beach Gardens. Fla. Oe1701t. Mklb. 
~Mich.
Harper Oods. Mlctl. 
Oelrolt, Mid\.. 
Patt$iiron,NJ · 
Edmoi'ld; Okla. 
DetrOit; Mic_ll. ···Montreal. Que.
West Brandl, MiCh. 9irmi~m. Miss.· Conroe. Texas 
Tallahassee. F!a 
Bellaire, Mi<:h. Colorado Springs, Colo. Milwaukee, Wis. · 
Ka~Fta. LaG~, Ill. Shelby own~, MiCh. Traverse City. id\. HudsoovUie, Mich. ·Ch~ Heights, Ill. Mt. Clemens, Mich. 
~,WIS.· 
. iaml,. Ia. 
SanduskofrioOhio .
·Akron, · · 
Utica. Mich. Bloomfield H!Hs, Mich. Bifminoham. Mich. 
~s.s.c. 
ado. Kansas Muskegon, Mich. · Chicago. IlL 
You~Ohlc
East. . · _ , Mieh~ TOI'Oflto, Ont. Carmel. Ind. 
Miami, Fla. 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
RedfOrd, Mich. Bifmingham, Mich. Mechanicville. N.Y. flint; Mich. Sterling Heights, Mk:h. Brockton. Mass. Fairview, Texas 
AndoVer. Md. 
=Mich. 
. ,Ill. 
CleYelar\d. Ohio 
ChiCago, Ill. . CinciMati. Ohio Indianapolis. Ind. 

-.~,-~::·, ''·.-_i·.~·~..._:..·:,.:,-..:
~~~;,·~:t· --­
· Cleveland, io • • · Beaumont, Texas Evanston, Ill. ~e.Va. 
Terre liaute. Ind. Mt. Prospect. 111. L.aPlata, Md. 
Ro~bury, Mass. 
AAron. Ohio 
Lafayette. Ind. 
. River Ridge, La. Aurora, COlo. Houston, Teli&S Muskegon, Mich. 

DEPTH CHART ­
When the Wolverines have the ball 

Irish, Wolverines go back a long way 
By JONATHAN JENSEN 
Sports Writer 
Every self-proclaimed Notre 

Dame fan should know the 
story. 
A group of students take a 

leisurely train ride from Ann 
Arbor to Notre Dame to tour the 
campus, have some lunch, and 
play a little football. 
The year is 1887. 
The Irish lose their first game 

of football by the score of 8-0, 
but more importantly, a rivalry 
is born. 
Since that cold November day, 

Notre Dame has met the 
Michigan Wolverines 22 more 
times on the gridiron, and their 
storied matchups have pro­
duced some rich memories and 
one of college football's greatest 
rivalries. 
"I have never seen Michigan play bad against us," noted Irish coach Lou Holtz, who de­spite this fact has led the Irish to a 4-2 record against the Wolverines. 
Overall, Michigan leads the series 14-9 on the strength of eight straight wins between 1887 and 1908, though Notre Dame had a four-year stronghold on the series before last season. 
"It's always a big game (for me) because I know a lot of guys on the team," said Notre Dame fullback and Detroit na­tive Jerome Bettis, who spurned his home state's Maize and Blue to play for the Fighting Irish. "It's a little more personal for me." 
Over the last few years, as the two schools have climbed to the top of the rankings, their yearly September tussles have taken on an added importance, becoming the signature matchup of every new college season. 
In fact, the heroes of the last three games have graced the cover of Sports Illustrated, heightening their accomplish­ments even more. 
In 1989, in one of those rare classics between the country's two top-ranked teams, Raghib "Rocket" Ismail burst onto the college scene with two electrify­ing kickoff returns for touch­downs. He was dubbed "Rocket Man" by SI, and despite an inspired comeback led by a freshman quarterback named Elvis, Notre Dame held on for a 24-19 victory. 
The next year the Irish were again placed on top of the rank­ings, and they trailed by ten points in the fourth-quarter. That was when sophomore first-time starter Rick Mirer led the Irish on two dramatic touchdown drives to earn a 28­24 win and his first-ever Sports Illustrated cover. 
Of course everyone remem­bers last year's thrilling matchup in Ann Arbor, where eventual Heisman trophy win­ner Desmond Howard's acro­batics brought the Wolverines a 24-14 win in the latest install­ment of the series. 
"If we won the game last year," says Holtz, ..we wouldn't have deserved to have won." 
The Notre Dame-Michigan game that some may remember best is the one that ushered in the Lou Holtz era at Notre Dame. The Irish were coming off a disappointing 5-6 cam­paign and were installed as heavy underdogs to the Wolverines. 
"I have never seen Michigan play bad against us." 
-Lou Holtz 
The Irish were victimized by an official's line call that brought back an apparent touchdown and lost a 24-23 squeaker that nonetheless sig­nalled that Notre Dame was definitely back under Holtz. It was the only time in history a team jumped into the Top 20 after a loss. 
Two years later, Notre Dame kicker Reggie Ho leapt into the hearts of America by kicking four field goals and leading the Irish to a 19-17 win as Notre Dame began its quest for a na­tional championship. 
Though this year's installment figures to be a game for the ages as the sixth-ranked Wolverines head into Notre Dame Stadium to face the third­ranked Irish, it will have to be quite a game to top the recent classics the two rivals have given us. 

However, in addition to na­tional title implications, the matchup will also serve as a bragging right for many Notre Dame players who suffered their first loss to the Wolverines last season. Take for example Notre Dame quarterback Rick Mirer, who grew up a Michigan fan, and players like Bettis who .I. hail from the state just minutes north of Notre Dame. 
"I know it will be big for me because I get a chance to play against guys I know really well," said Bettis, "And then when I go home I rub it in their nose a little bit." 

Michigan State tix lottery on Tuesday 
Students may bring up to four Special to the Observer student IDs to get lottery num­
bers. There will be 100 num­There will be a Michigan State hers picked and posted in the ticket lottery at Stepan Center Observer the following day. on Tuesday, September 15 at 3 Students with winning numbers 
p.m. The Student Union Board will be able to buy up to two (SUB) is offering tickets in the tickets at the cost of 20 dollars lottery to Notre Dame each. undergraduate, graduate and For more information contact law students for the for the Yolanda Lawler, SUB Services September 19 Michigan State­Commissioner at 283-4958 or Notre Dame football game in at the SUB office, 239-7757. Lansing. 
page 6 Friday, September 11, 1992 
Pete Bereich is not feeling any pressure 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame linebacker Pete Bereich has been there before. 
He is used to being in the spotlight that shines on the Irish football team. The junior started seven games in 1991 and was the team's second leading tackler with 69, but this year is different. 
He is filling in for suspended captain Demetrius DuBose and the spotlight seems to be a little brighter on a defense that was less than stifling in the season opener against Northwestern. 
DuBose is considered the glue to the rickety defense, but while he sits out the first two games, Bereich is forced to shoulder much of the defensive load. 
It will be an especially heavy burden tomorrow when Michigan brings its vaunted running attack to South Bend. After what Northwestern did against the Irish, Michigan running backs Ricky Powers and Tyrone Wheatley and quarterback Elvis Grbac appear even more dangerous. 
"We made a lot of mental er­rors and missed some assign-

TOM CLEMENTS CAREER STATISTICS 
Alt.  Comp.  Int.  Yards  TO  
1972  162 83 12  1163  8  
1973  113 60  6  882  8  
1974  215 122 11  1549  8  

Total 490 265 29 3594 24 
JBR 

Linebacker Pete Bereich will fill whatever role asked of him by Irish coach Lou Ho~z. 
ments," Bereich said of the Northwestern game. "We're going to have to improve our fundamentals and be more ag­gressive." 
With Powers and Wheatley in the backfield and Grbac calling the signals, the Irish defense cannot bend as it did against Northwestern, because the Wolverines have the firepower to make it break. 

"When we've won (against Michigan). it's been when we played great on defense, and last year that didn't happen," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "We've still got some problems on defense, and there are some we did not anticipate." 
Would DuBose make a big dif­ference? Many Irish fans say yes, and even Bereich doesn't believe he is DuBose's equal. 
"Right now, I just want to get my game to the level of Demetrius'," he said. 
But DuBose is out and Bereich needs to be in the middle of the action. The weight of expect­ation could begin to take a toll, but he is not letting other people put pressure on him. 
"Pressure only comes from being unprepared," Bereich explained. "It's like school. The only time you feel pressure on a test is when you don't know the material." 
Notre Dame must be prepared for its tough test tomorrow. If the vanilla defensive display against Northwestern was just a decoy, the game could be a classic, but if the same defense shows up, U of M could chip away at the Irish's champ­ionship armor.. 

Clements ready to accept latest challenge 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame quarterbacks coach Tom Clements has had a career that almost any football player would dream about-a national championship, a storied pro football career, a job in the law profession, and now, a coaching positi.on under the Dome. 
But it all took a little patience and lost sleep. 
Clements, a three-year starter at quarterback for the Irish, enjoyed a stellar senior season in 1973, recognized as All­American by both Football News and Football Writer's Association. 
Even after leading Notre Dame in its sixth national championship season and winning the Sugar Bowl Most Valuable Player award, Clements still failed to draw any

'---------------'interest from the National Football League. In fact, he was left undrafted through all 18 rounds. 
So he headed north to Canada, where he promptly won the Schenley Award as the Canadian Football League's Most Outstanding Rookie in 1975. The following season, his Ottawa Rough Riders captured the CFL title with on a Clements touchdown pass in the game's final seconds. 
Among other honors in his accomplished 12-year career, Clements won MVP honors in leading Winnipeg to the crown in 1984. He finished his career the way it started,with a bang. In 1987, he was named the CFL's Most Outstanding Player. 
His career totals included 2,807 completions in 4,657 attempts for 39,041 yards, a .603 completion percentage and 252 touchdown passes. He also ran for 1 ,663 yards and 14 touchdowns. 
Clements earned his economics degree in 1975. In between pro seasons in Canada, he returned to campus and was graduated magna cum laude from Notre Dame's Law School in 1986. After announcing his retirement form the CFL in May of 1988, he embarked on another career, practicing law with Bell, Boyd & Lloyd in Chicago. 
Once again, Clements begins anew, this time trying to relive his days at Notre Dame in the body of protege Rick Mirer, who has already equalled or surpassed almost all of Clements stats in the Irish history books heading into his senior year. But one goal still remains-leading his team to a national championship. 
Not much has changed in the atmosphere under the shadow of the Dome. It's hard to think of any college student under more public pressure than the one with a gold helmet that lines up behind the center on Saturdays in the fall. 
If nothing else, the 39-year-old Clements can teach Mirer and his successors to handle this and other pressures of life with patience, something Clements knows well. 


HEYFI 

Man cannot live by football alone. Call Domino's Pizza.® 
HTI 
IRISH 
Celebrate ND Home Opener With Domino's 
POST GAME SPECIAL! 
FOUR LARGE 
PEPPERONI PIZZAS 
$ 1 9 ~~TITlHE TOPPINC,, 
AVAIL'\BLE 
LIMITED TIME OFFER. NO COUPON REQL.11RED. Vnlid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. our drivers carry less than 520. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
POST PARTY SPECIAL! 
(AFTER 9 P.M.) 

LARGE 
PEPPERONI PIZZA 
$499 
SUBSTITUTE TOPPINGS .AVAIU\BLE 

LIMITED Tll\tE OFFER. NO COUPON REQUIRED. Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. our drivers carry less than 520. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza. Inc. 
1 1 a.m.-2 a.m 

>--1 C}1l~E l)i\I\1E 28 Sun-Thurs. NOTRE DAME ST. MARY'S 
MJCI--IIGAN 21 1 1 a.m.-3:30 a.m. 
271-Q300 289-Q033
Fri-Sat. 

Remember, Domino's Delivers in 30 Minutes GUARANTEED. 

Friday, September 11, 1992 page 7 



This Elvis is alive and well ·-·. 
By RICH KURZ Associate Sports Editor 
Irish fans have one memory and only one memory of last season's matchup against Michigan-The Catch. But more impressive than the catch was The Pass. 
What Desmond Howard did in the end zone on that fourth­and-one play was amazing, but what was perhaps even more incredible was the touch Grbac put on the balL He had to put it out of the reach of Notre Dame · defensive back Jeff Burris, but where Howard still had a chance for it. 
The loss of Howard to the 
N.F.L. takes away some worries of Irish fans, but unfortunately his partner is back. Senior Elvis Grbac is quarterbacking the Wolverines for the third straight year as a starter, after starting in four games as a freshman. 
But those who have a relatively long football memory might remember the first time Grbac saw significant action in an important game -against 

DERRICK ALEXANDER 
Senior wide receiver Alexander should be a favorite target of Grbac's. He played in only one game last year due to injury. He had 3 receptions for 59 yards in only game in 1991. 
the Irish in 1989. 
Starting Wolverine signal­caller Michael Taylor was knocked out of the game with a bruised back after a vicious hit from Ned Bolcar early in the third quarter. Grbac stepped in to complete 17-of-21 passes, good for 134 yards and two touchdowns. 
"That young quarterback came in and did a great job," Irish coach Lou Holtz said after that game. "He made some excellent throws. I think that kid has a great future." 
In retrospect, probably more of a future than would have made Holtz happy. The next season, with Rick Mirer and Grbac facing off for th~ first time as starters, Notre Dame pulled off a spectacular 28-24 win on a late drive engineered by Mirer. 
But Grbac certainly didn't hurt Michigan's chances in 1990. He hit the Irish for 190 yards and two touchdowns on 17-of-30 passing. But, last season's game against Notre Dame may have been the jewel 

WALTER SMITH 

Sophomore split will share t!me with Alexander. He was a high-school teammate of Jerome Bettis in Detroit, where he ran behind the current Notre Dame fullback. 
of Grbac's career. 
Elvis connected on 20 of 22 passes, a remarkable 90.9 percent completion rate, for 195 yards, with one interception. But the biggest play of the game came with 9:02 remaining and a Wolverine drive stalled at the Irish 25-yard line, with the score 17-14 in favor of the maize and blue. 
Back in the days of Bo Schembechler, the former Michigan coach, a short­yardage fourth-down play called for a run up the middle. But current coach Gary Moeller, 
with  the  combination  of  
Heisman  Trophy-winner  
Howard,  and  a  returning  

quarterback, went for all the marbles. And Grbac connected. 
After beating the Irish jinx, the Wolverines went 10-2, capped by a loss in the Rose Bowl. But this season, Grbac faces another challenge-life without Desmond. 
Grbac and Howard were teammates in high school, breeding a familiarity that enabled them to set an NCAA 

JESSE JOHNSON 

Junior tailback will join Powers in the backfield. He ranked second on the team in rushing in 1991 with 634 yards. Johnson was named Big Ten Offensive Player of the Week for his work against Iowa last year. 

THE 
O~l)UE p~l ~ F . Ob
eatunng -«'( Beef, Chicken, Seafood and Vegetarian Fondue Entrees 
And Our Famous Flaming Chocolate Dessert 
Upper Level Old Brewery 100 Center Complex, Mishawaka • Phone: 255-1526 Tue.-Thur. 5-9 p.m. • Fri.-Sat. 5-10 p.m. 
Reservations Appreciated 
-T 

Welcome Irish Fans.
Nick's 
Come see us for 
• Breakfast served all day. 
•Lunch i Nick's I 
Ironwood
•Dinner 
~ 

• I
1710 N. Ironwood 
r:;,· 
= 0

5-'Ln f£ating. f£zyerience 277-7400 Open 24 Hours 

page 8 Friday, September 11, 1992 

Michigan line paves way for Powers and Co. 
By JENNY MARTEN 
and should be a important part Associate Sports Editor of the Wolverine's line. He played in the Notre Dame game 
The real Elvis never had it last year as a guard. this good. The probable starter at left 
Elvis Grbac, the Wolverines' guard for the Wolverines is senior quarterback, will bring sophomore Shawn Miller (6'4", five of the best bodyguards in 275). Miller played his first the country into Saturday's game as a Wolverine last year contest with the Irish. in the game against the Irish Protecting Grbac will be the after working hard at spring 
I \ 
Michigan offensive line which drills. 
I J 
has been touted as one of the best in the country. As if the starters weren't big
~ i 
"They (the Wolverines) have enough and talented enough, 
I 
power. Their offensive line is big Michigan also has a strong
I 
and strong. They can take the corps of reserve linemen. Senior
I 
ball and jam it down your The Observer/Sean Faman Marc Milia (6'3", 268) provides 
I 
The Michigan offensive line shown opening a huge hole for Ricky Powers (12) last year versus Notre Dame. 
throat," said Notre Dame head Michigan with a reliable backup
I 
coach Lou Holtz. "Their center American candidate Steve foot-five and 289 pounds, game last season. After starting at both center and left guard.
I 
I ! (Steve Everitt) is a great football Everitt. Despite an injury-Cocozza is also a 1991 All-Big his first game in his Michigan Freshman Mike Sullivan (6'7", player. (Joe) Cocozza and (Rob) plagued career, including a Ten second team selection. The career against Boston College 298) will be ready to replace Doherty are back this year and broken jaw in the Notre Dame senior will provide the offensive last year, Doherty was a stand­Doherty at right tackle and they whooped us last year." game last year, Everitt was a line with valuable experience out in the game against the freshman Trezelle Jenkins (6'7", 
1991 All-Big Ten second team with Cocozza having started all Irish last year and was named 298) can fill in on the other end 

This year's offensive line is an selection and co-Most Valuable 12 games last year and 20 over the offensive hustler of the for Skene while sophomore Joe experienced one with four Player of the 1991 Gator Bowl the course of his career. game. Marinaro (6'4", 280} can con­seniors slated for starting roles. with his teammates on the line. Next to Cocozza at right tackle The fourth senior on the of-tribute at either tackle position Anchoring the squad will be six­At Everitt's right hand will be will be fifth-year senior Rob fensive line is left tackle Doug or as a guard. Sophomore Paul foot-five, 27 5-pound senior fellow senior Joe Cocozza at Doherty (6'6", 298}. A second-Skene (6'6", 294). Skene Barry (6'3", 274) can also help 
center and presea on All-right guard. Standing at six-year starter, he started every notched four starts last year out at left guard. 
I ' 
I I I i 
r . 
l. Miami· 1-0-0 ·1525 1
I <, ! 
2. Washington l-U~O 1469 2­
3. Notre Dame· J~o~o 1382 3
: j 
I I, 
4. Florida ·0-0'-0 1261 6 
I . 
5. Florida State 1.::0-0 1260 4 
i' 
6. Michigan ·Q.,O~O 1256 ·5 ! 
_7. Texas A&M . 2~0-0 1213 7
I 

. 8. Alabama-.--' 1~Q-0 110f 9 
9. Syracuse ·4,C·1-0'-0 1061 1 0 .. 
10. rerl'n·statt_-~+o~o ·"§a9 · s · 11. Nebraska>~ l-0'-0 . 875 11 12. Colorado 1~0-0 848 12 13. Oklahoma 1-cO--O ·813 15 14. Georgia· 1-0-0 734 .·. ·14 
defenses and provide Grbac into a chance to join Howard in 
15. Clemson 1-0-0 684 13 with a steady target. the NFL next season. At six­
Elvis 
16. UCLA 0-0-0 553 16
Going into his third year of foot-five, 230 pounds, Grbac has 
17. California .. _ l·O~O 513 19 .·.
starting, Grbac has racked up the size pro scouts love, and
continued from page 7 
some impressive numbers. He is with his career completion 
18; Mississlpp·Vst .J-0--0 ; . 507 ·21
mark for touchdowns from the first on the the all-time percentage (61.8%), there aren't 
same passer to the same 
•·19. N. Carol.inast.. ··· 2~0-0 · 5o5 -l8
Michigan list for career any questions about his abilityreceiver (31). 
touchdown passes with 54, and to hit receivers. 
-· 20:;·termessee ,< ·..• '14¥-0 ._ 351: 22
But Derrick Alexander, a 
also for most completions, with 

.2f>Stanfotd .•. .. Ot1.,.Q . 288·: 20
promising wide-out who was 
353. His 147.5 quarterback But none of that means
lost for the season early last 
rating is the best ever for a anything to the Irish defense, ,22··: Ohio S.tate ., ~ -D-d ·• 273 17 
year with an injury, is back and Wolverine quarterback. which holds the responsibility of 
.2$. Virginia· · ·-1-o-o
healthy. He will team with 
Holtz is respectful of Grbac's stopping the potent Wolverine
sophomore Walter Smith at 
abilities. attack on Saturday. If the pass . 24. GeotQiaTech · <0-o-o 
flanker, while Felman 
rush isn't better than it was last
Malveaux, another sophomore, "Elvis doesn't make many :2_p; BriQti9-f11YOJJDQ·. :f·0-0 
i ., ::.. : ::.:.::.: ·~···' :.:. . ' :-'', =-::".""'·."": . . .. . . . . ..
mistakes. He plays well within year, and Grbac is given time towill start at split end. Together 
the system." throw, the Irish will be in for a The Observer/Brendan Regan
these receivers will stretch ~~-~-~~------------------~~~~~~~-~.~~~-­
All of this should translate long afternoon. 
Each week during football season, The Observer sports ..... ·····-<;:;:_;-· 
'·.. ~<!;'#...,.·.··.···...
staff. Al Lesar of the South 
f
§(lit .,,.,..·. 
Bend Tribune and a guest 
.·.,.. ,.'" '#
prognosticator predict the :: •··· .-...~ .;/i outcomes of the week's major 
,/ ,.........._ ..........
.i~~"dr "· ¥'
college football games. Records 
Mike Scrudato Jim Vogl Jon Ross AI Lesar Rich Kurz Jenny Marten Rolando de 
are compiled as to how each 
Assistant Sports Irish center South Bend Associate Associate Aguiar
person does against the spread. Sports Editor 
Editor Last guest: Tribune Sports Editor Sports Editor Associate
Home teams are in CAPS. 8-6-0 
8-6-0 8-6-0 7-7-0 7-7-0 6-8-0 Sports Editor j 4-10-0
I 
Panthers

PITT 7 over West Virginia Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers Panthers PanthersII PENN ST. 26 over Temple Nittany Lions Owls Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Owls Nittany Lions I BOST. COL 21 over N'w'tern Wildcats Eagles Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Eagles Wildcats
I 
Buffaloes

I 
! Colorado 9 over BAYLOR Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Buffaloes Golden Bears
I California 10.5 over PURDUE Golden Bears Golden Bears Boilermakers Golden Bears Boilermakers Golden Bears Orangemen Longhorns
SYRACUSE 14 over Texas Longhorns Orange men Orange men Orange men LonghornsI STANFORD 17.5 over Oregon Cardinal Ducks Cardinal Ducks Ducks Cardinal Cardinal I~ Fla. St: 6.5 over CLEMSON Seminoles Seminoles Tigers Seminoles Tigers Seminoles Seminoles 
Gators 

I 
FLORIDA 26 over Kentucky. Gators Gators Gators Gators Wildcats Gators Virginia 19.5 over NAVY Cavaliers Cavaliers Midshipmen Midshipmen Midshipmen Cavaliers MidshipmenBadgers
WASH. 33 over Wisconsin Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers Badgers S.CAROLINA 2.5 over Arkan. Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Gamecocks Miss. State 4.5 over LSU Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs Tigers Bulldogs Bulldogs Bulldogs 
I NOTRE DAME 3 over Michigan Irish Irish Irish Wolverines Irish Irish Irish 




