--~­
----~­
------------------------------------------------·~-------------------------------------------­

~~ 
.ge..
e OIJ~server SaimMa~,Cd~ 

VOL. XXIV NO. 121 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERV 
Recognition, response~ and protectictn from sexual harassment discussed 
By LYNN O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
Sexual harassment does not have to be tolerated and there are some methods to respond­ing to this kind of behavior, ac­cording to Wendy Settle of the University Counseling Center. 
Settle, along with Barbara Fick of Notre Dame's Law School and Patty O'Donnell, an 
· ND graduate student held the lecture "How to Recognize and Respond to Sexual Harassment," last night. "Sexual harassment is pri­marily an issue of power, not sex," said Fick, quoting a handout produced by the University of Louisville. "It oc­curs when a person with power abuses that power." Sexual harassment is a bmach of the trusting relation­ship that normally exists be­tween members of the univer­sity community, said Fick. Harassment introduces a per­sonal element into what should be a sex neutral situation. Fick defined some of the le­galities connected with sexual harassment. Fick states that, "the university can be held re­
sponsible for sexual harass­ment, in situations where grad­uate students and professors are abusing their power." 
Protection exists for those that are being pressured to perform sexual favors in ex­change for academic or work­related benefits, said Fick, quoting the handout. 
The three types of sexual ha­rassment are sexual coercion, verbal and visual harassment and behavior contributing to a hostile environment. Coercion is the most severe and imposed by those in a position of power. Verbal and visual harassment includes sexual innuendo's and sexual remarks about one's clothing , body or sexual activ­ity. Leering, staring, pinching or grabbing constitutes behav­ior that contributes to a hostile environment. 
A "hostile environment exists if the harassment is. severe and pervasive," said Fick, "but in order for the university to do something about it or initiate legal action people have to speak up." 
Settle addressed the sexual harassment on the Notre Dame campus. 
She feels that women experi­ence a difficulty because, "Notre Dame's tradition of be­ing an all-men's college forces women to battle against estab­lished norms." 
After speaking to young women on campus, Settle would classify the dining halls as "hostile environments." Settle read a survey conducted Spring of 1991, which states that over two-thirds of Notre Dame stu­dents have experienc~d some type of sexual harassment. 
O'Donnell talked about her experiences with her summer employer. 
"It began wiith dirty jokes, how many boyfriends I had, and whether I was a virgin," said O'Donnell. "Then he propositioned! me... he grew more aggressive ... he grew more angry." 
Settle and Fisk encouraged O'Donnell and other students in similar situations not to ignore sexual harassment. 
Settle referred to eight steps outlined by the University of Louisville to respond to sexual harassment; recognize it, be assertive with the harasser, talk 
see LECTURE I page 4 

Saint rVlary's College freshmen surveyed 
By KELLY DERRICK Results "enable administra­miles or less from home or 100 News Writer tors and faculty to gain a better to 500 miles from home. sense of their entering Her mother and father both 
Saint Mary's participated in women-their backgrounds, have college degrees. The fa­the national American Council their goals for college education ther is most likely a business­on Education survey of fresh­and beyond, and their attitudes man and the mother is typically men. The Saint Mary's fresh­and beliefs," said R. William a full-time homemaker. The men are compared to other Cash, Institutional Researcher. family income is above average freshmen across the country Of the incoming Saint Mary's and contributes over $1500 or attending peer Catholic institu­freshmen, 96.1 percent are more to her education. tions, as well as with other four white Caucasian. Minorities As high school students, 73.6 year colleges. account for a significantly lower percent of the women surveyed 
This survey is a part of the percentage compared to the earned a B+ or better. Typically Cooperative Institutional 23.7 percent average at other they were members of Research Program at the colleges surveyed. scholastic honor societies and University of California, Los According to the survey, the took the SAT/ACT college Angeles and is conducted each typical the Saint Mary's woman preparatory course. 
---------. 
The ObserverQMd t-t.nerling

The Game of Hackey Sack 
Geoff Stratman, a sophomore from Pangborn Hall, takes time out to play with a Hackey Sack. 
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 

TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1992 

fall at 431 of the nation's two is Catholic, lives with both of 
see SURVEY I page 8 
and four year colleges. her parents, and lives either 50 
Sasseen discusses academic freedom Hit-and-run driver admits 
By KATHY MASSA common objections to the definition of a Catholic uni­News Writer validity of Catholic universi­versity's identity, said drinking the night of accident ties. Sasseen. 
There is a widespread Quoting the Pope, Sasseen Herein lies the contradic­By JULIE BARRETT Indiana, driving while intoxi­misunderstanding of the true defined the mission and tion of a Catholic university Assistant News Editor cated is. definition of academic identity of the Catholic uni­as objectors understand aca­The Police Department has freedom which shapes the versity. demic freedom: if an indi­The Notre Dame junior in­submitted the accident report to identity of universities, ac­"The central task of the vidual desires to teach some­volved in the hit-and-run acci­the county prosecutor's office cording to Robert Sasseen, Catholic universtiy is to thing he believes but it is dent that seriously injured two ' where the charges against the President of the University of establish an authentic com­contrary to the Church, said Saint Mary's sophomores early driver are still pending upon Dallas. Catholic universities munity of inquiry, animated Sasseen, then, the university Sunday morning, Feb.16, has further investigation. necessarily bring an added by the spirit of Christ, giving that employs that teacher admitted to drinking the night County prosecutor Michael dimension to the definition of effective witness in the heart cannot be a Catholic institu­of the accident, according to Barnes was unable to be academic freedom. of culture to the Church's tion. Sgt. Charles Feirrell of the reached for comments. 
Saseen discussed this rela­belief in the intrinsic value of The conclusion of the ob­South Bend Police Department. 
tionship in his lecture titled, knowledge," Saseen said. jection is that a Catholic uni­The Police are currently tak­Elizabeth Joyce and Cara "The Church, the Catholic Sasseen countered the ma­versity is impossible in terms ing depositions from ND/SMC McCourt, the Saint Mary's University and Academic jor objection to this vision of of academic freedom. In students who were around the sophomores injured in the acci­Freedom." the Catholic universtiy: it vio­other words, objectors be­student driver that night to de­dent, have been released from 
He outlined the identity lates academic freedom. lieve that academic freedom termine if the student driver St. Joseph Medical Center and and mission of a Catholic Sasseen pointed out that omits the possibility of a was intoxicated when he hit the are back in school. universtiy according to Pope academic freedom has two Catholic university, said two students, Feirrell said. John Paul II. He then meanings: institutional au­Sasseen. "We are trying to work McCourt, who suffered a bro­related the conditions tonomy; and individual Sasseen's response was around school schedules to take ken lumbar spine and a con­
necessary to realize the true teaching autonomy. simple, "any unqualifi~d depositions from witnesses who tused kidney, said she is "doing Catholic university. An These definitions portray a view is intangible in theory saw the student before the fine." understanding of academic university that is not subject and practiice." An accident occurred to find out if freedom is crucial to the to any outside authority, said unqualified, limitless the student was intoxicated Receiving a broken neck and development of a Catholic Sasseen. In addition, university "simply cannot be while driving that night," skull fractures after being di­universtiy, according to teachers should be able to maintained in pinciple," Feirrell said. rectly hit by the car, Joyce is Sasseen, and he developed teach whatever they believe Sasseen said!. He argued Feirrell explained that still wearing a neck brace, but these two definitions. to be true, according to those against this erroneous although drinking while driving declined to comment further on Sasseen then responded to who oppose the Pope's see SASSEEN I page 8 is not illegal in the state of her recovery. 

• 
In 1492: King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella of Spain issued a royal edict expelling Jews from Spanish soil, except those willing to convert to Christianity. 

• 
In 1968: President Lyndon Johnson announced he would not run for another term of office. 

• 
In 1976: The New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that Karen Anne Quinlan, in a coma for almost a year, could be disconnected from her respirator. (Quinlan, who remained comatose, died in June 1985.) 

• 
In 1987: The judge in the "Baby M" case in Hackensack, N.J., awarded custody of the girl born under a surrogate­motherhood contract to her father, William Stern, instead of the surrogate, Mary Beth Whitehead. 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

nly we can save Church of 


Loretto 
Over the past few months much has been said about the renovation of the Church of Loretto. Open forums, letters to the editor, inside columns and discussions have all oc­curred. The general JENNIFER
consensus is that the 


committee has made up HABRYCH 
its mind and little can be News Copy 
done now. 
Editor 

Rumor has it though that something can be done to bring the renovations that have already begun to a screeching halt. At this time, some pews have been removed and replaced by folding chairs, and a mysterious children's swimming pool has been placed in the center of the church. Some priests have affirmed that all renovations must be approved by the bishop, even though this sel­dom occurs. 
The bishop formed a commission to study the plan earlier this year and the rumor is that the report was far from favorable. Bishop D'Arcy o the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend has not commented publicly on either on the committee's report or on his feelings about the renovations. The committee report has also never been released to the public, and therefore, has only been seen by the eyes of the committee, the Bishop, and the renovation committee. 
Maybe D'Arcy does not know of the strife the plans have caused in the Saint Mary's community. Maybe it needs to be brought to his attention that some of the sisters have stated that they would rather die first, then have to see their church "destroyed." 
Maybe Bishop D'Arcy should know that Mary Turgi, chairwoman of the renovation committee, did not consult the sisters in her community or care about their outrage, simply because her order is not run as a democracy, and she does not have to consult them. 
Maybe someone should alert him that at least two committees that deal in designating historic landmarks have have stated that they do believe that the "problems" the committee is renovating to correct could be solved in ways that did not alter the art or the structure of the Church. However, they have no jurisdiction over the Church of Loretto because it is not not 50 years old and exists on private property. They did of­fer free architectural advice on how to fix the church without destroying it. 
Maybe someone should bring it to Bishop D'Arcy's attention that Turgi overlooked the idea of consulting the students of Saint Mary's because she believed that the students would have no interest in the renovation of the Church on their campus. 
It seems to me that the only hope for any halt of the plans lies in the hands of D'Arcy. If an appeal is made to him he may have the power to act. 
What do we have to lose but the Church o Loretto. Please address your concerns to Bishop D'Arcy; P.O. Box 390; Fort Wayne, IN 46801. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Production  News  
Kathy Fong  Frank Rivera  
Cynthia Ehrhardt  Jennifer Habrych  

Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 



Pr8SSura 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
,;~; Via Associllted PreiJS ~:::: ..., .,. 
=:=:;:~::;:· 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL "Miracle" water confiscated at border 
•LOS ANGELES -Customs agents wary of cholera are confiscating bottles of water brought from a Mexican well believed by some to have miraculous healing powers. If the water from a well in central Mexico's Tlacote is found free of disease, airlines will notify passengers about how to get it back, officials said. Juana Lopez said she and her husband, Ezequiel, traveled to Tlacote in February and waited in line three days to fill four jugs. "The water cures people, it really does," she said. "My husband was in a wheelchair before. Now he walks."At least 35 people have died of cholera, which is spread through contaminated food and water in Mexico since June. 
3-year-old shoots his sister to death 
•JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -A 3-year-old boy shot his 2-year-old sister to death and authorities are considering charges against the toddler's parents under a state law requiring guns to be safely stored out of a child's reach. Brittany Aaron Newton was shot in the head Sunday night with a .357-caliber Magnum handgun that belonged to her father, police spokeswoman Asa Higgs said Monday.The children were at home with their mother and another child at the time, Higgs said. How the shooting occurred wasn't known, because the mother was not in the room, Higgs said. Assistant State Attorney Angela Corey said any charges must follow a seven-day waiting period under the gun-storage law. 
OF INTEREST 
•"Introduction 
to Resume Expert" Detailed on­screen instruction for the use of Resume Expert will be held this afternoon in the Career and Placement Services Conference Room from 3:30 to 4:30p.m. The workshop will cover how to use the program and other uses of the Resume Expert system. 

•"Career 
Orientation Workshop for Juniors" A Career Orientation workshop for all juniors will be held in Room 118, Niewland Science from 6:30 to 7:30p.m. An overview of career services, preparing for job interview and much more will be discussed. 


MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
Bishops address issue of homosexuality 
•CHICAGO-Roman Catholics in America are still struggling with their bishops' 1990 edict that homosexual behavior is evil but homosexuality is not, a church leader says. "While it might be easy to say we have to love the sinner but hate the sin, it is always more difficult to make that distinction in practice," Bishop William A. Hughes of Covington, Ky., told a national conference on Catholics and homosexuality. Although the church condemns homosexual sex, it has been forced in the last decade to examine its attitudes toward sexual orientation in light of the spread of AIDS, the outspokenness of some homosexual priests and new evidence that homosexuality may have a biological cause. 

CAMPUS 
Memorial to honor Hipskind to be held 
•NOTRE 
DAME, lnd.-Alumni Hall will hold a memorial Mass for Terry Hipskind, a 1991 ND graduate who died of cancer March 22, in the Alumni chapel tonight at 10:30 p.m., according to Alumni Rector Father George Rozum. Cavanaugh Rector Father Andre Leveille, who delivered the homily at Hipskind's funeral Mass, will preside at the memorial Mass, Rozum said. 

•Keeping 
the Faith Lecture and discussion series where fellow students speak about practicing their faith here and now. Moderator: Father Tom McDermott, 7:30 to 9 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room in South Dining Hall. 

•Mandatory 
meeting for all transfer students in­terested in holding a commissioner position on the Transfer orientation committee 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the basement of Farley Hall. 

•Employment 
opportunities with Greenpeace to be conducted on Wednesday in Hoggar College Center Room 303 from 12:15 -1:05 p.m. And 1:10-2:05 p.m. 


Tuesday, March 31, 1992 
FORECAST: 

Mostly cloudy, high in the middle 40s. Low in the middle to upper 20s. 
TEMPERATURES: 

City  H  L  
Anchorage  35  18  
Athens  66  46  
Bogota  72  39  
Boston  57  37  
Cairo  84  61  
Chicago  49  35  
Cleveland  40  34  
Dallas  67  51  
Denver  61  32  
Havana  84  69  
ndianapolis  43  38  
Jerusalem  61  43  
London  48  39  
Madrid  59  36  
Minneapolis  54  23  
Moscow  48  39  
Nashville  62  44  
New York  54  42  
Paris  52  43  
Philadelphia  59  44  
Rome  61  41  
San Francisco  58  52  
South Bend  45  34  
Tokyo  72  50  
Washington, D.C.  65  49  

Sports  Graphics  
Jenny Marten  Eric Kreidler  
Systems  

Harry Zembillas Abbot and Costello 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

~--­

Tuesday, March 31, 1992 The Observer page 3 
Campus reacts to Bush selectio1n as 1992 commencement speak~e~r 
By MEREDITH McCULLOUGH Assistant News Editor 
Confirmed reports that President George Bush will ad­dress Notre Dame's 1992 graduates have generated mixed reactions from mem­bers of the Notre Dame community. 
While Bush is not the first President to speak at a Notre Dame commencement, the fact that he is a presidential candi­date has raised concerns among some faculty and stu­dents. 
"The University has gen­erally tried to secure a president during their term in office. Consistent with that is the tendered request to President Bush," according to government professor David Leege. 
"The difference this time is that Mr. Bush is in the middle of a political campaign. Many people will question the propriety of an invitation during a campaign year," he added. 
Sister Kathleen, rectress at Lyons Hall said she was disap­pointed with the decision. 
"I am really upset," she said. "This is no time for a political speech . . . There is no way he should be coming here." 
But Bush's candidacy is not Kathleen's only objection. She also said that she is not pleased that the adminis­tration chose a speaker with policies not consistent with the University's standards. 
Some senior students echoed Beatty's concerns that Bush's address might give the com­mencement political spin. 
Though Tim Thorton, outgo­ing senior class treasurer, said he was "impressed to have the president speaking," he added that "the timing is pretty bad." 
Jeremy Gredone, also a se­nior, elaborated on this com­ment. "Part of how Bush ap­proaches the speech will have to do with campaign not with our graduation," he said. "We will look back and remember who said it, but probably not what was said." 
But not all reactions were 

negative. 
"I am very happy that the school is in a position to at­tract such a high caliber, na­tionally known speaker," said Jennifer Switzer, outgoing se­nior class president. "Apprehensions (about Bush being too politicali and not hu­manitarian) are based on in­valid grounds." 
"Are we really in a position to complain about the presi­dent of the United States as our commencement speaker?" she asked. 
"The decision was a good one," Switzer added. 
Switzer said that her only complaint was that the admin­istration had !little to no consultation with the seniors in choosing their speaker. Switzer called! the lack of interaction "unfortunate" and said, "hopefully there will be a change in the fulture." 
While it cannot be deter­mined whether or not the president will actually use the commencement to rally for 
see BUSH I page 4 

ND CAUSA organization to testify before House 
By JOE MONAHAN News Writer 
NO's Cuban American Union of Student Advocates (CAUSA), a student organization, will tes­tify before the U.S. House of Representatives' Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 (H.R. 4168) this Thursday. 
The group's testimony is ex­pected to be of "considerable interest" to the committee be­cause the group's charter and membership give it a "unique ability to present the perspec­tives and positions of Cuba's youth," said member Mike Sullivan. Sixty percent of Cuba's population is under the age of 30. 
In a letter to Dante Fascell, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Tim Roemer, D­Ind., said that CAUSA is an "exceptionally thoughtful group of law students from the University of Notre Dame who could provide the committee with the insights of the newest generation of Cuban Americans." 

Make sure your road trip proceedls without a hitch. 
,_ """"-"'" ~Sometimes road trips can be a little more adventurous than you 
expect them to be. Which is why you should always pack your AT&T Calling Card D 
Its all you need to make a call from almost anywhere to anywhere. It's the least 
expensive way to call state-to-state on AT&T when you can't dial direct. And now, 
you could also get 10% back 1111 on all the long distance calls you make with 
your card~ D The AT&T Calling Card It's the best route to wherever you're going. 
Call more, save more with an AT&TCalling Card. Call1 800 654-0471, Ext. 5915. 
-

.AT&T 
-
Congressman Roemer also said that "Eastern Europe would have been greatly aided by the assistance of a talented and motivated group of expa­triates such as this, and I be­lieve that we should not lose this opportunity to include them in this reform effort." 
The six-member delegation will consist of three students from the Notre Dame Law School, including CAUSA President Heriberto Lopez Alberola, John Machado and Tony Villalobos, and three un­dergraduate students, including Student Senator Tyler Farmer, David Devine and Roger Feo. The group will be met by sev­eral CAUSA alumni in Washington, D.C. 
The group's itinerary includes meetings with Indiana Third District Congressman Tim Roemer and Congressman Romano Mazzoli of Kentucky, both ND graduates, as well as Congresswoman Ileana Ros­Lehtinen of Florida's 18th District, according to a CAUSA press release. 
In addition, CAUSA will be hosting a Thursday evening re­ception on Capitol Hill spon­sored by the Bacardi Corporation for the committee. 
The purpose of the bill is "to promote a peaceful transition to democracy in Cuba through the application of appropriate pressures on the Cuban Government and support for the Cuban people" as stated in its preamble. Sullivan empha­sized that the group is taking an active role in the passage of the bill by testifying before the committee. 
Established in 1989 by a small group of Cuban American students at the Notre Dame Law School, CAUSA is "a policy­oriented 'think-tank' and student advocacy group" and its existence "centers on student research and discussion of the issues facing Cuba, and the need for the newest generation of Cuban Americans to be in­volved in those issues," said Sullivan. 

Sullivan also felt that CAUSA was a unique group no only in its content, but also because of its Catholic nature. "I just don't think it would work at another university" he said. 



Reduce. Reuse. Recycle. 
rand Opening April 3rd 

Rainbow Video 
WE SPECIALIZE IN: 
Korean 
Japanese 
Chinese 

Video Tapes 

Free Membership 
State Road 23 & Ironwood Next to 76 Gas Station 
Mon-Sat 10 am to 8 pm

•~i'if make at least $30 worth of AT&T Long Distance Calls with your AT&T Card per quarter. Calls covered by special 
©199 ~~~£~ plans are not Included. 
Sun 12 noon to 6 pm 



(219) 273-9545 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1992 
ers." "Mr. Reagan benefitted from 


'Silence of the Lambs' garners five Oscars 


Bush 

his role in the 'Knute Rockne LOS ANGELES (AP) -rape victim in "The Accused." editing, sound and visual ef­
All American' movie and he 
continued from page 3 

never let us forget it. Mr. Bush 
support, his appearance at would like to gain similar ad­the University will indeed affect vantages. Thus the University is his eampaign, aceording to two in an ackward position in as Notre Dame government pro­much as Mr. Bush may be a 
fessors. one-term president," Leege"(Speaking at Notre Dame 
said. 

eommencement) adds to his 
The fact that Senator Daniel 
credibility among Catholics," 
Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.) will said professor Martin Saiz. "He receive the University's presti­reeeives the prestige and noto­gious Laetare Medal during the riety of a good connection with commencement exercises the University. It's strategic for should not be forgotten, ac­him." 
cording to Saiz. 

Leege added, "There is con­"Monahan's acceptance of the siderable strategic advantage in award does give (the com­using Notre Dame as a plat­mencement) some balance," form. Catholics are swing vot-
Saiz said. 

Put your gift giving nnder wraps... 
with an Honor Gift from the American The Honor Gift-the gift that gives hope! 

Cancer Society. 

LOOKING FOR SOMETHING DIFFERENT 
NEXT SEMESI'ER? 
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND VALUES 
CHECK IT OUI'I 
~ ELECTIVE COURSES 
~ CONCENTRATIONPROG~ 
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS & PROGRAM INFORMATION AVAILABLE IN 
309 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL 
Phone: 239·5017 

:IllALUMNI 





i!:CLUB 

::::: :rP>*#~~~~::::::::: 
0 

::: :hc!;~· m:11~::: 
• 0 • 0 0 • 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • 0 0 0 0
.JP. 

•• 0 •••••••••••••••••••• 
: :&([;cern~~ IIJ)IliD!IIIRW: ~~ :~~(~~,~ ~~~: ~~~ : 
IllALUMNI 

i!:CLUB 
0 • 0 •••••••••••••••••• 
. . . . . .®rniRA"Ir· ~IPIE~~-. :::::::: :~~ft:~~:::: .. :::::: 
• 0 • 0 • 0 • 0 0 • 0 0 • 0 0 0 
·::Crt,~1f~: 
"Silence of the Lambs," the thriller about a fledgling FBI agent who needs the help of an evil genius, swept the five top Oscars on Monday night, in­cluding best picture and acting awards for Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster. 
"My God. I can't believe it!" said Hopkins, who received a standing ovation from the crowd at the 64th Annual Academy Awards show. "I am greatly honored and tremen­dously moved." 
''I'd like to dedicate this to all the women before me who didn't have the chances I had," said Miss Foster, who joins the ranks of repeat Oscar winners. She was named best actress of 1988 for her performance as a 



Lecture 
continued from page 1 
to harasser, document in­cidents, look for witnesses, get emotional support and seek as­"Silence" also brought Oscars 

to director Jonathan Demme 
and to Ted Tally for best 
adapted screenplay. 
The film becomes only the 
third movie to sweep the five 
major awards. "It Happened 
One Night" did it in 1934 as did 
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's 
Nest" in 197 5. 
Jack Palance, the crusty trail boss in "City Slickers," and Mercedes Ruehl, the warm­hearted video store owner in "The Fisher King," won for best supporting performances. 
"Terminator 2: Judgment Day," the 1991 box-office champion, outperformed its more prestigious rivals in tech­nical categories. It won four Oscars: makeup, sound effects 
sistance. 
The lecture was sponsored by C.A.R.E., the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Notre Dame Student Government and Notre Dame Safe Walk. 
fects. 

"Bugsy," Warren Beatty's gangster epic that had the most nominations with 10, picked up early awards for art direction and costume design. Another best picture nominee, "JFK," Oliver Stone's assassination polemic, won for film editing and cinematography. 
Callie Khouri won the original screenplay award for the fe­male buddy film, "Thelma & Louise." 
Composer Alan Menken won the award for best original score for his music for "Beauty and the Beast," and he and his late partner, lyricist Howard Ashman, won a second Oscar for the movie's title song. 


ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES. 
THE TOP 5 DIFFERENCES BETWEEN 
s  AND  SYR  
#5.  NO NAVY BLAZERS AND KHAKI PANTS AT SWP.  
#4.  AT SWP, YOU DON'T HAVE TO DANCE TO FAST SONGS.  
#3.  NO NEED FOR WITTY, IDLE CHATTER TO KEEP DATE  
INTERESTED AT SWP.  
#2.  AT SWP, YOUR DATE WILL COME BACK FROM THE  
BATHROOM.  
#1.  YOU'LL HAVE A GOOD TIME AT SWP !!!  

SWP-STUDENT WORLD PREMIERES 
the best in student fibn and video from n.d communication & theatre WEDNESDAY-APRIL FOOL'S DAY-7:00 & 9:00 PM-AT THE SNITE admission $2 


Pre-Law Society News 
3/31  ''What's Law School Like?" 7pm, Law School Basement An informal discussion and reception  
3/31  Officer Candidate Sheets due in 104 O'Shag  
4/1  Interviews of Candidates. Candidates will be contacted by phone about interview times.  
4/10  Trip to University of Michigan Law School (with the Preprofessional Society). For information, contact Michael Loftis (x3454), Beth Tluchowski (Preprofessional Society, x4877), or Ms. Frances Shavers in the Alumni Association Office. If interested, please respond to one of the three by April2.  
4/11,12  Moot Court Cases. If interested in being a juror for  

& 25,26 a case, call Brian Aleaxander at 277-9497. 
4/25 Mock LSAT. 8 am, Cushing Auditorium. Please sign up in 104 O'Shag by April17 
------~--------------------------------------­
Tuesday, March 31, 1992 The Obse-rver pagH 5 
Fall DART registration Horowitz criticizes trend of liberal Marxism 
By JOHN CONNIC>RTON


expected to go smoothly 
News Writer 
By STEVE ZAVESTOSKI their required courses," said 
Tenured radicals, stooped in 
Associate News Editor Kennedy. She also said that on 
the archaic liberalism of the
occasion a Saint Mary's student 
Sixties, have exacerbated many 
Though no changes have been will be closed out of a Notre 
of the United States' problems
made in the DART system, reg­Dame class-a familiar occur­
and caused the decline of the
istering for fall 1992 classes rence for Notre Dame students 
nation's universities, according
should go smoothly, according as well. 
to David Horowitz, radical stu­
to Don Steinke, assistant regis­For Notre Dame students de­
dent leader during the 1960s 
trar. siring to take a Saint Mary's 
and bestselling author of
In the past, Notre Dame and class in departments other than 
"Deconstructing the Left." 
Saint Mary's students have education and religious studies, 
Horowitz, last night's featured 
complained of being closed out a Saint Mary's Intent form must 
speaker for Dialogue at Notre
of courses filled by students be filled out at the Notre Dame 
Dame at Theodore's, criticized
from the other campus. Registrar's office. However, 
the recent trend toward liberal
"I haven't really heard of sit­according to the "Schedule of 
Marxism in the academia
uations where Saint Mary's Courses and Student Academic 
throughout the nation. An
students are unable to register Information" booklet, 
admitted Marxist and son of
for a class because Notre Dame "acceptance into SMC courses is 
communist parents, Horowitz
students had filled it," said not guaranteed." 
now credits many of the
Sister Francesca Kennedy, Saint As for Notre Dame students 
nation's problems to radicals
Mary's registrar. Saint Mary's who should happen to be closed 
who use yesterday's failed
students are given priority in all out of a course required for 
solutions to today's predica­
classes outside of the education graduation, Steinke said the 
ments.
and religious studies particular department will usu­
He stated that the social wel­
departments before Notre ally make every attempt possi­
fare system has cJ~eated "a new
Dame students are admitted, ble to get the student into the 
plantation" that has trapped
she added. course. 
blacks in a morass of poverty
In the past there have been "In rare instances," he added, 
and ghetto-life..Although wel­
more Notre Dame students "the department will let them 
fare spending has doubled since 
taking Saint Mary's courses wave the requirement." 
its inception, so has the number
than Saint Mary's students Within a year, though, ac­
of poor. 
taking Notre Dame courses, cording to Steinke, the regis­
"Here on campus you have
according to Steinke. trar's office hopes to have a cultural emphasis on college To the audience's amusement, 
faculty members teaching the
degree audit program servicing campuses believe such activities Horowitz admitted he believed
"Notre Dame education mi­
same bankrupt notions" that 
have had a profound effect on "the idea that today's students
nors will always be able to get students' needs. The degree au­
continue to add to today's
dit program will be a computer­the quality of the teaching. are apathetic is healthy." Youth, 
problems, Horowitz told the
ized program, according to Horowitz stressed that creating he emphasized, is a time of
audience. However, he ex­
Steinke, which will display for an "atmosphere of intimidation freedom from the the world's
plained, on these campuses
students exactly which courses where people are afraid to responsibilities and one should
"you wouldn't know that 
are needed, within their major speak out" on issues of racism, enjoy the moment while it lasts.
Ronald Reagan and his cold 
or outside their major, to sexism, homosexuality is "To be absorbed and to take
warriors freed one billion peo­
graduate. detrimental to our nation's uni­absolute positions is not the
ple" from the influence of 
versities. most conducive to learning,"
Communism.
For the current registration "If a teacher is teaching only Horowitz said. "One should
"Someone has told me that
period, students should meet one side of an issue he is not care about the issues but not to
there are more Marxists in
with their academic advisors teaching," Horowitz stated. He extremes."
American facullty than in the
within their college in order to added that speech codes, sensi­"What I hope you will commit
entire Eastern bloc," said 
ensure requirements are met, tivity training and other means yourselves to is one nation, one
Horowitz.
said Steinke. of controlling speech "poison culture, with liberty and justice
Many critics of the new multi-
the academic atmosphere." for all," said Horowitz. 



WEEKLY FORUM F=ROM GRACE PIT 
.. STUDENT LEADER OPEN FORUM SERIES.. 
PART I: STU[>ENT MEDIA 
Who are they? What are their ~~oals? Do you have questions? 
COME JOIN US 

THURSDAY APRIL 2 1992 
Refreshments will be proviched! Sponsored by MEC and N)~\ACP 
Funded by Student Government 
Sponsored 6y: :Jvlu{ticu{tura{T-~ecutive Councif 
....--------------------~---~-­
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1992 



Officer testifies partner was upset after beating 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. (AP) ­One of four Los Angeles po­licemen on trial for assaulting a motorist told his partner minutes after the beating, "Sarge should have handled it better," the partner testified Monday. 
Rolando Solano, testifying in defense of Officer Theodore Briseno, also said Briseno, his partner, seemed "upset and feeling things were out of con­trol." 
He said Briseno told him, "I thought we were going to have to shoot that guy. I thought we were going to be in a shooting." 
Briseno, 39, is on trial along with Officers Laurence Powell, 29, and Timothy Wind, 31, and Sgt. Stacey Koon, 41. The four are charged with assault in the Mareh 3, 1991, beating of mo­torist Rodney King. 
The beating was videotaped by a neighborhood resident and its broadcast on television sparked national outrage and calls for police brutality inves­tigations. 
The case also heightened racial tensions in Los Angeles and led to allegations of racism within the LAPD. King is black and the officers are white. 
Solano, who was not charged in the beating, first testified outside the jury's presence Friday that Briseno told him he didn't think Koon, the sergeant in charge, had handled things properly. 
Superior Court Judge Stan­ley Weisberg allowed jurors to hear the remarks Monday over the objections of the other defense lawyers. 

WASHINGTON (AP) -William Lenoir announced Monday his resignation as the head of NASA's manned flight activities, joining his boss in leaving the agency. 
The resignation was an­nounced as Administrator Richard Truly prepared to leave NASA, at the behest of the White House. Truly's last day is Tuesday while Lenoir's resigna­tion is effective May 4. 
Their departures remove the two highest ranking former as­tronauts from managing the agency. After the Challenger disaster in 1986, a major rec­ommendation of the White House-appointed Rogers Commission, was that more as­tronauts should be involved in running the agency. 
Lenoir and Truly had left the agency and returned after Challenger to management jobs. Truly was eharged with returning NASA to flight status. When he was promoted to administrator, he hired Lenoir 
Please Don't Drink and Drive. 
Head of NASA manned flight activities quits 
to run the troubled space sta­tion program. Later, Lenoir be­came associate administrator for space flight and eventually headed the combined shuttle­station programs. 
The commander of space shuttle Atlantis, Charles Bolden Jr., said in a news conference from orbit that it doesn't matter whether the key administrative positions at NASA are held by astronauts. He said people should be chosen for their ca­pabilities, whether they're as­tronauts or not. 
But he said astronauts should be considered if they want to move into administration. 
Bolden said Truly would be missed. 
"From the crew of Atlantis, we'd like to say thanks very much for everything you've done," he said. 
There was no hint in NASA's announcement that Lenoir was leaving because Truly lost his job. Nor did it say what Lenoir will do. 
"Bill has had not one but two distinguished careers in the space program," Truly said. "At the time I asked him to come back to NASA (in 1989) , he told me he could only commit to stay for about three years." 
During his tenure, NASA had 17 successful shuttle launches and completed a major scale­baek of the space station pro­gram to save $6 billion. 
"It's been a rewarding three years," Lenoir said. "We have continued to improve the oper­ation of the shuttle program and have put the program on track for continued improve­ments." 
Lenoir joined NASA in 1967 as an astronaut and flew as a scientist astronaut on the fifth flight of the shuttle. He left government service to become a vice president of a consulting firm, Booz, Allen and Hamilton. 
Quality instruction at all leuels 

Egan St.ab/es
Pre-Law Society/Preprofessional Society Members 
2000 BakeriDwn Rd. 
Buchanan.t11 49107 
St.able· 616-695-5190 Home: 616-695-2545 
Want to see the University of Michigan's Law School and Medical School? 



ATTENTION All 
If so, sign up for the upcoming trip to Ann Arbor. A bus will leave early Friday, April tO, and return that night. 


GRADUATING STUDENTS 
For information, contact Michael Loftis (Pre-Law Society, x 3454), Beth Tluchowski (Preprofessional Society, x4877), or Ms. Frances Shavers in the Alumni Association Office. If interested, please respond by April 2 to one of the three 
<tliteat gjouJt~ to CB1tea~t at Qlte£~leQck Caf,e 
• NEW BREAKFAST MENU 0oole gjollk ~WI\ OmeQet 
gtuYfJJ. ~clt ~ ~e ~ rut.d CBtscut~ 
-NEW HOURS -7:00A.M. -2:30P.M. ~ -7-fJ() a.t1L -1O:SO a.tll ~Wlclt -11 :00 (LJit. -2:00 p_fll. 
Measurements will be taken for 
LIMITED TIME SPECIAL 


Caps and Gowns 
~Cup~ CcMoo wltl. tM cpllkcltosa ~ 0119 ~ &tW>.e 
tuesday march 31 wednesday april 1 
GREENFIEWS CAFE 

Between 9:00-4:00 
LOCATED IN nm HESBURGH CEN'I1lR FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
FOR INFORMATION OR RESERVATIONS-CAlL 239-8577 
at the 



NOTRE DAME 
BAST OF mE HESBUROH CEN"rnR 



BOOKSTORE 

KAREN 
HELlER 
Hunters Jumpers-Equitation 
The Observer 

Tuesday, March 31 , 1992 page 7 
Beat

Atlantis astronauts lose second instrument to blown fuse 
' CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Atlantis' astronauts on Monday lost a second scientific instrument to a blown fuse, this time a telescope that had been probing galaxies millions of light years away. 
The ultraviolet telescope was beaming back data on a cluster of galaxies in the direction of constellation Coma Berenices when it stopped working. Ground controllers spent hours trying to get the telescope back up and eventually concluded it was hopeless. 
Principal investigator Stuart Bowyer of the University of California, Berkeley, said a wire inside the telescope apparently shorted and caused the fuse to blow. He said the short was un­related to voltage trouble expe­rienced by the telescope last week; ground controllers cor­rected that problem by chang­ing the temperature of the in­strument. 
"That one worked. This one is gone," Bowyer said. 
The telescope, the only astro­nomical instrument aboard Atlantis, accomplished 19 ob­servations before the fuse blew. More than 34 observations were planned for the nine-day mission. 
"They weren't just toys, throwaways. They were impor­tant," Bowyer said of the missed opportunities. "But I'll also say that with 19 of these, why, we are going to have a huge scientific return." 
Because of its wide field of view, the telescope had focused on some stars that had never been studied before in the ul­traviolet wavelength, Bowyer said. Sources of ultraviolet light are invisible from the ground because the rays cannot penetrate the atmosphere. 
A blown battery fuse knocked out an electron beam gun Thursday, two days after Atlantis reached orbit. Before becoming disabled, the gun created 60 artificial auroras in the night sky over the Southern Hemisphere and twice sent out radio waves to students equipped with special receivers. 
The crew of six men and one woman said in an orbital news conference that the electron beam gun, while it worked, was their favorite part of the flight. Astronaut Kathryn Sullivan compared it to the futuristic "phaser" gun used by Hollywood's Star Trek crew. 
"It was truly magnificent sci­entifically and humanistically," said astronaut Byron Lichtenberg. 
Astronaut Michael Foale told reporters on the ground that the crew can't do anything about the blown fuses. Even if they had trained for such re­pairs in the open cargo bay, they would not be able to reach the fuses in their bulky space­suits, Foale said. 
The telescope, e:tectron beam gun and 11 other atmospheric research instruments are clus­tered in the aft section of the cargo bay. 
The crew received a special greeting Monday. Sending his best was Russian cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev, who returned to Earth on Wednesday after 10 months aboard the Mir space station. 
"Sergei's doing g;reat. Back at home and says, 'Hi!"' Mission Control messaged the astronauts. 
Astronaut David Leestma talked to Krikalev by ham radio late last year. Leestma and the three other licensed amateur radio operators aboard Atlantis had hoped to chat with Krikalev's replacement and the other Mir cosmonaut while Atlantis was aloft. 
So far, the astronauts' calls to Mir have gone unanswered. Likewise, the cosmonauts' at­tempts to call Atlantis have not been acknowledged. 
The astronauts have one last chance to communicate with Mir, on Wednesday. 
A ship-to-ship conversation would be "a red-letter day for ham radio, a historic day," said NASA's Glenn Holt, who's help­ing with the experiment. 
The only time Americans and Russians have talked ship-to­ship was during the 1975 Apollo-Soyuz mission. Regular on-board radios -and not ham radios -were used. 
Atlantis is scheduled to land at Kennedy Space Center on Thursday morning. The astro­nauts were supposed to return Wednesday, but flight directors decided to keep them up an ad­ditional day to make more measurements of the atmo­sphere, including the thinning ozone layer. 
Scientists happily reshuffled their experiments to take ad­vantage of the extra time and "make the most of every pre­cious moment in space," said mission manager Tony O'Neil. 
The Observer 

page 8 Tuesday, Ma~ch 31, 1992 
Day school operator faces child molestation charges 
FARMVILLE, N.C. (AP) -A jury on Monday began weighing evidence from 143 witnesses to determine if a former day care center operator molested 12 ehildren in his small-town preschool. 
Robert Kelly Jr., who owned the now-closed Little Rascals Day Care Center with his wife, Elizabeth, is charged with 100 counts of sexual abuse. He could get 40 life terms plus 600 years in prison if convicted on all charges. 
The eight-month trial has cost North Carolina more than $1 million, and is described as the state's longest and costliest criminal prosecution. 
It is sometimes compared to California's McMartin Pre­Sehool molestation case, which stretched over seven years and cost more than $13.5 million. In the end, no one was convicted in what was the nation's longest and most expensive criminal trial. 
Since August, jurors have heard testimony from 143 wit­nesses, including eight boys and four girls who recounted tales of abuse at the preschool in Edenton, 120 miles east of 


Sasseen 
continued from page 1 
conception of academic freedom, siting "realities." 
He pointed out that the gov­ernment sets limits on any uni­versity by accrediting it and re­quiring it to meet certain stan­dards. Professors can be re­moved from their teaching po­sitions in cases of "moral trepi­tude." 
Furthermore, Sasseen said that removing a theologian without a mandate from the lo­cal Catholic Bishop to teach theology is analogous to remov­ing a clinical psychologist from a teaching position in the uni­versity because he lacked certi­fication. 
Sasseen further outlined the dimension of a Catholic univer­stiy, emphasizing its central mission of searching for truth. 
Raleigh. They began deliberat­ing Monday morning. 
"This case is hardly ordinary so I have asked each of you to sign the verdict," Judge D. Marsh McLelland told the seven-man, five-woman jury. "You should let your verdict speak the truth as you are able to determine it." 
After half an hour of deliber­ations, jurors returned to ask McLelland for water pitchers, a chalkboard and notepads, and a list of exhibits. They had not been not allowed to take notes as they listened to witnesses. 
The jury ended deliberations for the day at 5 p.m. 
The trial was moved from Edenton to Farmville, 85 miles away, because of pretrial pub­licity. Defense lawyers argued that Ketly was a victim of small­town hysteria and that anxious parents badgered others into making false accusations after rumors circulated in the town of 5,800. 
Kelly has been jailed since June 1989 in lieu of $1.5 million bail. 
A Catholic university must also educate its students in order to equip them for their calling in the world. 
In addition, Sasseen said, the service mission of the Catholic university also includes developing culture through re­search in order to form, even transform, culture through the influence of Gospel values. 
Sasseen summed up the Catholic definition of academic freedom by quoting the Pope, "academic freedom is a guaran­tee to faculty to search for truth according to their ordered search, safeguarding the right of the individual and society within the confines of truth and the common good." 
"It's not a question of the plausibility of a Catholic uni­versity," he said. "It is a ques­tion of 'how can you be an ade­quate university if you're not a Catholic university, because of the nature of truth?' " 








FOR RENT 
5 BEDROOM HOUSE 
Amenities Include: 2 Full Baths Washer /Dryer Security System New Appliances 1 Mile From N.D. 
Newly Remodeled. Features Include_: All New Bathrooms New Appliances New Carpet Completely Repainted New Siding 
232-8256 
Perot names former Vietnam POW as 'interim' running mate for race 
DALLAS (AP) -Texas bil­lionaire Ross Perot said Monday retired Vice Admiral James Stockdale, a former Vietnam prisoner of war whose freedom he helped to gain, would be his "interim" running mate in a possible race for the White House. 
The decision allows volun­teers to mount ballot petition drives on Perot's behalf in the 27 states and District of Columbia that require in­dependent candidates to name running mates. 
Perot has said he'II run for president as an independent if supporters are able to place his name on the ballot in all 50 states. 
''I'm not here for me. I'm here for Ross Perot," Stock­dale said at a news conference at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, where he is now a senior research fellow. 
''I'm not that much inter­ested in the mechanics of government. I'm interested in leadership," he said. 
But Stockdale pledged to stay on the ticket through the November election if Perot wants him. 
"Admiral Stockdale is an outstanding American patriot who has served his country in peace and war," Perot said. "I very much appreciate his participation in this effort to let the American people be heard." 

Stockdale, 68, was a combat pilot in Vietnam and led the first bomb attack on North Vietnam in 1964. He was shot down and captured a year later and spent the next 7 1/2 years in solitary confinement. 
In the late 1960s, Perot worked with Stockdale's wife, Sybil, and other POW families to call attention to abuses of 
U.S. prisoners by North Vietnamese captors. 
Perot said that if the cam­paign advances, he will choose a permanent running mate this summer. 
Stockdale, who has 26 com­bat decorations, spent 37 years in the Navy. 
After retirement in 1979, he became president of The Citadel, a military school in South Carolina, for one year, and joined the Hoover Insti­tution in 1981. 
"He'd fit in well with a man like Ross Perot," said Arthur Blair, who was a department chairman at The Citadel when Stockdale was president. "He would compromise, I'm sure, but he wouldn't compromise his principles. 
"I don't think he's a trimmer, who trims his sails to the pre­vailing wind," said Blair, now deputy director of the Mosher Ins\itute for Defense Studies at Texas A&M University. 
Since first declaring his in­terest in an independent run in February, Perot's office has received more than 1 million calls from supporters interested in starting petition drives. 
Perot established a 100-line phone bank this month staffed by volunteers. He added 1,200 lines last week. 
Perot, 61, has sounded a populist theme. He has criti­cized President Bush and other presidential candidates for failing to deal with the federal deficit. 
Independent presidential campaigns historically have fared poorly. But observers say Perot's bid could take advan­tage of voter resentment at in­cumbents and Washington in­siders. 
Perot, who has an estimated net worth of $3 billion, has said his candidacy would not fail for lack of money. 
Perot made his fortune in the computer services busi­ness, founding Electronic Data Systems Inc. in 1961. 
business or management related fields. The highest degree planned was a Bachelor degree at 47.3 percent. Reasons for attending college ranged anywhere from learning more about subjects of interest and gaining a general education to helping to get a better job and making more money. 
Saint Mary's freshmen typi­cally rated themselves as aver­age or higher in qualities such as understanding others, lead­ership ability, self-confidence and competitiveness. 


Survey 
continued from page 1 
Of the first year students sur­veyed, 65.1 percent said they had consumed beer, wine, or liquor within the past year, compared to the national per­centage of 57.3 percent. 
For 80 percent of the women, Saint Mary's was their first choice in colleges to attend. Many of the women applied to four colleges or more. Most of 

the women believe that they will be satisfied with Saint Mary's. 
According the this year's freshmen responses, Saint Mary's women outpaced the na­tional percentage of first-year students seeking doctoral or medical degrees. Among the freshmen at Saint Mary's, 16.8 percent indicated an interest in obtaining doctoral degrees compared to the national per­centage of 12.5 percent. 
A larger proportion of women are likely to pursue careers in 
I{eeping The Faith 
A lecture and dlscussl6n series to offer us a chance to look at and 
ask questions about our church and our faith: Where have we 
come from. where are we now and where are we going? 
• 

"WHO CARES?" 
STUDENT PANEL FATHER TOM McDERMOH C.S.C. moderator Tuesday. March 3 1 . 1992 
Fellow students speak about practicing their faith here and now 
(Nv1PUS 
-
MNISiY 
' 
• 

FACULTY DINING ROOM South Dining Hall 
• 

7:30 p.m.-9:00p.m. Tuesday, March 24, 31, and April 7, 1992 
• 

COME WITH QUESTIONS! 
= .. 


Holy Cow! 

Tuesday, March 31 , 1992 The Observer page 9 
Hunter stuck in mud for over 20 hours 
HUNIONTOWN, Pa. (AP)-A hunter stuck up to his waist in mud was freed Monday after more than 20 hours of wrig­gling, talking to himself and a full night's sleep. 
He promised a rescuer he would give up turkey hunting for golf, but later changed his mind. 
"You think, 'How stupid was I to get myself into this?" said George Zubeck. "And then, 'How am I going to get myself out of this?"' 
The 39-year-old delivery driver from Leisenring was taken by helicopter to a Pitts­burgh hospital, where one of the first things he did was shower. He was in fair condition 
and  being  treated  for  hy­ 
pothermia  from  the  knees  
down.  

Zubeck was found by loggers Monday morning on state game lands about 40 miles southeast of Pittsburgh. He was freed about 2 1/2 hours later by fire­fighters with shovels crossed the mud on plywood planks. 
Still hoarse from yelling for help, he said in a telephone in­

ampus 

terview that he was scouting the game lands for turkey and thought the ground was solid enough to cross. 
"Before I knew it, it was up to my knees, and then up to my thighs, and then what are you going to do? If you try to dig yourself out, it just gets worse," he said. 
The nearest road was 2 1/2 miles away, the nearest house 1 mile. Zubeck said he yelled until he realized there was no one around to hear him. 
Figuring the heavy equipment nearby meant someone would _ find him the next morning, he decided to get some rest. Zubeck estimated he slept from about 9 p.m. Sunday until 5 
a.m. Monday by laying sideways in the mud and sticking his hands inside his jacket to keep warm. 
The overnight temperature dropped to about 40 degrees. 
In the morning, he heard the sweet sound of a front-end loader firing up and yelled to a tree-clearing logging crew. 


1n1stry ... 
ies 
......,.....·· splant 

opposed efforts to take vital organs before the baby died, staged a demonstration outside tg~ hospital Monday. ''We are not here to point·ac­cusatory fingers of judgment/' said the Rev. Patrick J. Mahoney. "We are here to reach with hands ofhope." 

n)U'Ani.l<> ODe 
fight to dnnate her (}tgans Thursday when a county judge ruled that a 1988 
· law forbade her from declared braifi,..dead. 
.•.Con~~siderations 

nst1amty 

he staff of Campus Ministry has been planning for several months now to try nd initiate next year a new program of religious education for undergraduates. e are convinced that there is a need on this campus to help our students integrate the issues of faith and morality into their lives in a more compelling way. e are seeking as a staff to try and respond to this felt need. 
Everybody knows that Notre Dame students are required to take at least two heology classes during their time here, whether they are Christian believer~ or not. These courses are generally quite useful in helping our students come mto ontact with the traditions and doctrines and sources of authority for our faith. 
hat we want to present now is a program that would be more systematic and upportive of those particular students who feel a deeper call -a call to mature in heir faith and to move in the direction of committed adult Christianity. 
It seems clear that people will never grow up and take ownership of the Gospel 
·ust from being talked at or preached to. What seems to be needed are pportunities for significant sharing among peers and common searching for isdom and direction, in the light of our gift of faith. 
In the last generation of the Church's life, all over the world and throughout the United States, small groups have formed where people try and live the Christian message together in their own particular circumstances. Whether you look into 
he poorest barrios of Latin America or the slickest suburbs of Western cities, you 
an find groups of adult Christians who meet together regularly to reflect on the ospel and analyze the environment in which they live, all in the context of the hallenge of the community. 
his experience and insight -that Gospel life needs a a "small Christian ommunity" in which to grow -is of course not new. It is as old as the Church itself, where the first Christians gathered together in homes, to remember the tories and teachings of Jesus and to break the bread and share the cup in His memory. In previous years on this campus, Holy Cross Father Louis Putz taught ; n entire generation of Young Christian Students to "see, judge, and act" in a wa~ hat brought life to faith and faith to life. People like my parents and their friends 
raised large families and lived their lives with clear hope, sustained for years by a et of Christian friends who met together regularly to talk about the Church and 1 ight about politics and share ham sandwiches in a world that was less and less · upportive of their values. 
Now the challenge seems to be to create a similar vehicle for the "children of the O's." There are hundreds of students on this campus who have been deeply ouched by retreats, like Notre Dame Encounter or dorm visits to Crowe House. 
Many of them find ongoing growth through events like NDE 4th Day; others don't. here are hundreds of students on this campus who have been deeply touched y Urban Plunges and Appalachia Seminars and Summer Service Projects .. ome will find support for their growing commitments to the poor the needy 1n olunteer groups and reflection days at the Center for ocial Concerns; but others won't. 
ith creativ~ advice from students and faculty and staff members, our Office opes next year to evolve a program of ongoing small communities, where 
un ergra uates w o can say t 1n want to e an a u t nst1an can meet together re~ularly and discuss the issues of our day in the light of the Gospel. We seek to evolve a type of religious education which will depend on peer ministry to shape and strengthen our young people and which will facilitate discussion amongst them about the struggles of their lives. We pray that the life of these groups will deepen our students' understanding of the teachings of the Church, so that those teachings can provide guidance for their ongoing lives. 
We welcome the guidance and investment of the entire University community for this project, as we move in a new, but not-really-so-new direction, and we invite your comments at any time. 
Tom McDermott, C.S.C. 



AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. April 4 5:00 pm Sun. AprilS 10:00 am 
11:45 am 
"Baby Theresa was a gift from God.... She was not cre­ated by G:od for spare parts," said ():tie demonstrator, Eddie Soblotne of Coral Springs. · 
Susan Oarke, the baby's ma­ternal grandmother, saw it dif­ferently. 
''Taking one and helping two, three, five -that's pro· life," she said. 
She said the family W( uld continue to press for a change in the law. 
"W~ will go on from here to · the children ,;, help the l'alnilii(IS.• You don't stop iomidc she said hours before 
Theresa died. · 

Fr. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. Fr. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. Fr. Thomas Gaughan, 





Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, March 31, 1992 

EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes VIewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor .. Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
~Pftrt,J~~ 
• -t.l. ..... t~ ~:..:~, 
4 


Bush choice an honor for ND 
Months of waiting and speculation about the 1992 com­mencement speaker were put to rest yesterday when Uni­versity officials confirmed what some had suspected: Presi­dent George Bush will address the 147th graduating class of Notre Dame. 
The news brought immediate reaction from members of the Notre Dame community who believe that next to the Pope, the President ranks as the highest figure the University could secure to speak during its Sesquicentennial Year. And although Bush is addressing only the Notre Dame commencement, the reaction from many at Saint Mary's was that the decision is an honor for both communities. 
But the President's high profile and current candidacy for reelection raise questions about the May 17 address. 
Some view his acceptance as a chance to politicize the commencement. With students and their families from all over the country, Bush couldn't ask for a more geographically diverse audience to hear his reelection message. 
But should we assume that the President of the United States would demean Notre Dame by turning its graduation into a stump appearance? The message may contain ideas expressed during his campaign, but to imply that Bush will do anything but tailor his message for the graduates is reaching at best. 
Others argue that choosing Bush equals a Notre Dame endorsement for his reelection. 
This claim is disputed by the fact that on the same day the Bush announcement was made, Notre Dame named one of the highest ranking Democrats in the country the recipient of the most prestigious honor to American Catholics, the Laetare Medal. That Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan will be present to address the graduates, should convince skeptics that political bias was not a factor in either decision. 
The issue is that Notre Dame had the opportunity to have the the President of the United States deliver the commencement address. Granted, Bush will bring national coverage and increased security. But to have him at Notre Dame is an honor, regardless of political affiliation or 
personal motivation. 
DOONESBURY 
M&CT TAD WANA­
/)JfliJ)Mt

MAK£R, CJIJ/3F OF 
TOTHt

"OPC/,' TH/3 BUSH 
OPO a:N'TER..

CAMPAIGN'S tUT/3 
OFOP&!<A­

COF<PS r:FATTACI<. 
TION5,
/?b'XARCJI!i?'3. 
ROU-113/

--~--I 
I 
lH/5 15 t-UHERC A NE!6ATIV/3 CM1­PAIGN8e61NS -t-U17H t-UHATt13C ATWAm< ONce CAUCO ''TH&35 f3:)<.(J3Uf;NTN&R!J5''! 'TJilZef1!01l/3 
I AR£7H/3 
!Je.5T! 



Twins reveal abortion's truth 
Dear Editor: 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium (Rm. 122), Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right-to-Life will sponsor a presentation by renowned pro­life activist/feminist twins Janice and .Joyce Keen entitled "Abortion & Truth: A Catholic Woman's Perspective." 
The twins first became nationally recognized while undergraduates at Stanford University, when they were arrested and jailed several times for trying to physically blockade the entrances of abortion chambers. For her efforts, Janice spent the summer of her junior year in 

JACC 'Disco Dome' rocks with 1970's look 
Dear Editor: 
Disco Balls? The Village People? Yes, I do believe the excitement has been rejuve­nated inside the Joyce ACC. After months of experimenting with gimmicks like "cha-ching" sound effects and piped-in earthquakes, the sports mar­keting department has finally found something to excite the basketball crowd ... the 1970's. 
You can't convince me that the glorious return of a rowdy, raucous spontaneous student section during the last two home games of the NIT was due to the scintillating wisdom of placing the students behind college in a California jail. Since graduation in 1990, the twins have further expanded their involvement in the pro-life movement. 

Joyce is currently on staff at Americans United for Life, the legal arm of the pro-life movement, and serves on the board of directors of the Illinois Right to Life Committee. Janice worked for a year with the Pro­Life Action League of Chicago and acts as an executive member of the Professional Woman's Network. a pro­woman, human life advocacy group. 
The Keens have brought their provocative and controversial 
both baskets and in the lower arena, closer to the action. No, no, no. It's because of the disco lights during player in­troductions, the crowd spell-a­long to "YMCA," and those great 70's ties that John MacLeod wears. 
The Thunderdome, which was unduly named before any light­ening ever hit, should be re­named the DiscoDome. Imagine the national exposure. Wouldn't it be "dyn-o-mite"? 
Next year, bring back the glory days of Irish basketball. Dig out the bright yellow uni­forms with garish green clovers, and gold knee socks. Designate certain dates as leisure suit games where students dress up in polyester, making the JACC a truly fearful place to stay. 
Bring in the K.C. and the Sunshine Band, the Bee Gees, and Donna Summer for post game concerts. And what ever you do, let the students sit be­hind both baskets, in the lower arena, at reduced ticket prices. 
Ted Mandell Assistant Professional Specialist Communication and Theatre March 26, 1992 
presentation, which includes what many Notre Dame students have never seen before-video footage of an actual abortion-to several college campuses. They reveal the brutal truth about abortion; that it is the murder of unborn children; that it is the ultimate exploitation of women; and that all Catholics are morally obligated to pray and work for an end to this modern-day slaughter of the innocents. 
Claire Johnson Farley Hall March 27, 1992 



a/HAT IA//3. Gt3N&RAT& HeR& 15 a£'1?& NOT51.JR& 
RAJU DAm, INFORMATION ON YeT. U/b 7HIN!< &VE3R.Y 5/N(]L£ A5P!JCTOF 7H8 IT'S FROM HIS 
PUBUC AND PRIVAT8 1-IV/55 FIR5TTCRM. 
OF-ON/3 BIU Cl.!N7r:W/ \ 
\ 

'I didn't inhale and I didn't try it again. I assumed it was against the law but when we got there they told us as long as we did it in our apartments or whatever 
nobody would hassle us.' 
Bill Clinto'n 

But I would not feel so all alone . .. Everybody must submit QUOT/.,"S! Box Q 
---~-~-·--~ 
--------------~--------­
Viewpoint
Tuesday, March 31, 1992 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Losing Catholic scholars is costly to ND campus 
Dear Editor: 
David Lutz's article "Can Notre Dame Be Saved?". origi­nally printed in First Things and recently reprinted by The Observer, is as provocative as it is sincere and thoughtful. The article raises a number of very pressing questions about Notre Dame's once and future charac­ter as a Catholic university. 


Catholic scholarship. 
(4) Notre Dame could estab­lish a program for new Catholic Ph.D.'s designed to bring them to campus for a year or two of post-doctoral work. They could be offered a reduced teaching load with ample opportunity to begin their professional research. This measure like the last would enable Notre Dame 
I disagree very vehemently must choose between preserv­and religious beliefs of job can­apply to the best graduate to become acquainted with the with some of Mr. Lutz's analysis ing its Catholic character and didates entirely. Second, we schools if their work warrants current pool of young Catholic and do not share his conclu­hiring the best faculty we can. could ask candidates whether it, even offering to pay their scholars and enable those sions. I am. for example, very This argument exhibits the they were baptized or were application fees. scholars to become acquainted disturbed by the substance and salient feature present in other raised either Catholic or This plan would give the cho-· with us. implications of his discussion of discussions of our mission; it Christian, while politely neglect­sen students exposure to grad­It is axiomatic that scholarly academic freedom. Restrictions raises both philosophical and ing to inquire whether they still uate work at no expense to work improves with the time on academic freedom are administrative questions. The have any religious beliefs or themselves, provide them the devoted to do it. This measure restrictions on the pursuit of philosophical question is commitments. opportunity to acquire the lan­like the last would thus raise truth. whether hiring a significant Third, we could attach less guage training needed for spe­the quality of work Catholic 
Such restrictions cannot, un­number of non-Christians importance to hiring faculty cialized research, provide them scholars are producing by in­der any circumstances. be im­and/or non-Catholics necessar­who are highly touted and who with a Master's Degree. and creasing the leisure they have posed in the name of safe­ily compromises Notre Dame's -come from the most highly es­help them make a more in­to produce it. (I owe this sug­guarding Catholicism. If the Catholic character. teemed graduate programs. formed choice about subse­gestion to my colleague David moral and doctrinal tenets of The administrative question is The esteem of the world is quently pursuing a graduate Solomon.) Roman Catholicism are indeed how Notre Dame should re­worth only so much, it might be education at another university. (5) Notre Dame should main­true, they can withstand the spond to the paucity of young said, and is not worth the con­It might be better if students tain a data bank of Catholics most rigorous intellectual Catholic or Christian Ph.D.'s, sequent compromise of Notre went directly to graduate school with Ph.D.'s in all disciplines. scrutiny under conditions of given our interest in remaining Dame's Catholic character. We elsewhere from undergraduate We can only hire Catholic free inquiry. Thomas Aquinas a Catholic university. could hire new faculty from work here. Exposing them to scholars if we know who they engaged in such inquiry in the The philosophical question is graduate programs that are graduate study here is, are. Paris of the 13th century. We in a difficult one. Certainly the held in lesser esteem but are however, better than their going (6) Finally and most impor­America late in the 20th should Catholic character of Notre attached to universities that are directly to professional school tant, we should do everything do no less. Dame cannot depend exclu­unquestionably Catholic or or to work. On the assumption we can in the classroom and 
I am also worried that Mr. sively on the liturgical life of Christian. that most Notre Dame out of it to encourage our best Lutz's discussion, like many of the campus, on the presence of Neither of the first two re­undergraduates are Catholic, undergraduates to pursue the arguments about Notre the Congregation of Holy Cross, sponses is acceptable; indeed I this measure would encourage graduate studies after leaving Dame's Catholic character. re­on the religious quality of un­•think there is little to distin­promising young Catholics to Notre Dame. This places a lies upon a false dichotomy. dergraduate dormitory life guish them. The third sugges­pursue doctoral studies. burden on faculty to identify Such discussions seem often to and/or on parietals and single­tion has some merit. It reminds (2) Notre Dame could set promising 'Students and to en­presuppose that a Catholic uni­sex residences. us that we ought not live only in aside funds for those of our courage their intellectual devel­versity must either imitate What goes on in the class­the eyes or the rankings of the undergraduates who wish to opment. Princeton, Yale and Stanford or room, in the research laborato­rest of the academic world. pursue doctoral work in an It places a burden on all of us must be narrowly and strictly ries and in the library is also Such reminders are always academic discipline at other to make the intellectual atmo­confessional. disregarding the important. Notre Dame's salutary. But we cannot neglect universities. Funds could sub­sphere of undergraduate life intellectual standard~ of the Catholic character therefore the standards of the rest of the sidize all or part of their grad­more rarified than it now is. rest of the academic world. depends to some extent on its academic world. To do so uate education. these funds This too requires creative Posing the problem in these having Catholic faculty and would be to betray an in­would be available on a com­philosophical discussions and terms ignores a third possibility. graduate students. To what ex­tellectual patrimony of which petitive basis; receipt of funds administrative measures too 
In trying to be a great tent it depends on this is and we have every reason to be very would be contingent upon ad­complicated to be discussed Catholic university in a pluralis­what it is for faculty to be proud. mission to a top drawer Ph.D. here. ... tic (and increasingly secular) Catholic are very hard to say. I I therefore favor a fourth re­program and normal progress Would implementing all of society, Notre Dame is trying will not try to say it here. sponse. Notre Dame should not toward the degree. these measures be expensive? something entirely new. Old I want to focus instead on the take as given the small number Again, on the assumption that Of course. Are they worth the models are woefully insufficient administrative question. I do so of Catholic scholars currently most Notre Dame under­cost? I believe so. According to to guide us; we must discover because the hiring dilemma to being trained at the nation's graduates are Catholic, imple­an old adage, those who think how to accomplish our mission which Mr. Lutz points results best universities. We should menting this plan would en­education too expensive should for ourselves as we go along. from a fact of academic demo­seize the initiative and attempt courage promising Catholics to contemplate the costs of igno­
This process of self-creation graphics and because that is a to increase the pool of pursue doctoral studies. rance. Those who think the requires extraordinarily cre­demographic fact that Notre outstanding Catholic academics. (3) Notre Dame could offer cost of investing in the next ative philosophical thinking as Dame can alter if we can Several measures could be competitive scholarships to generation of Catholic scholars we debate what it is we should muster the will and the finan­implemented to this end. doctoral students from other too high should contemplate the try to be. It also requires ex­cial resources. That demo­(l) A number of Notre Dame's universities who wish to spend costs-to Notre Dame and to traordinarily creative adminis­graphic fact is that few of the very best undergraduates go a year at Notre Dame working Catholicism-of doing without trative solutions to the prob­Ph.D.'s turned out by the most directly into the job market or on projects related in some way them. lems we face. respected graduate programs on to professional school. We to Catholicism and its history. 
One of the issues Mr. Lutz are Catholic or Christian. should attempt to identify un­This would allow Notre Dame ­raises is faculty hiring, which, I have only my own experi­dergraduates with the potential to become acquainted with Paul J. Weithman he argues. poses a threat to ence as a graduate student at for outstanding scholarship. scholars who may be sympa­Class of 1981 Notre Dame's Catholic charac­Harvard to support this claim, Any such students who want thetic to our mission and allow Assistant Professor of ter. Briefly put. his argument is but I would be extraordinarily to go to professional school them to become acquainted Philosophy that Notre Dame faces a surprised if it were not true. could be offered a complete with us. It would also afford March 26, 1992 dilemma. As long as there are Notre Dame could respond to tuition and living subsidy for the scholarship recipients the few Catholics or Christians re­the shortage of Catholic schol­two years here at Notre Dame leisure they need to improve the ceiving Ph.D.'s from the best ars in a number of ways. First, field of their choice. We could, quality of their dissertation graduate schools, Notre Dame we could disregard the moral at the end of offer to help them work, thus raising the quality of 
Bookstore lacks class by selling the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue 
Dear Editor: Illustrated in order to have my not possibly be overlooked by out. The models in this edition, anorexia nervosa? And the I want to publicly thank the own copy of the swimsuit edi­even such an absent-minded in a not so subtle manner, pre­more pious in our midst might management of the Notre Dame tion. person as myself. sent an image of the ideal fe­point out that the Church is now Bookstore for an important The Bookstore management Of course, there are those who male body. in the holy season of Lent. service which they are pro­has thoughtfully put this edition might be tempted to criticize Does not this image create These pious souls might wonder viding. on sale downstairs in the the management of the unrealistic psychological and if it is really fitting for the As a graduate student, I can­Bookstore. And, as if that Bookstore for this service. This social pressures on women, Bookstore to promote this ex­not afford to purchase a year's thoughtful act were not enough, swimsuit edition portrays and, some might wonder, inten­ploitation of women during this subscription of Sports the Bookstore has displayed the women as objects to be used by sify the pressures related to season when the Church is Illustrated just so that I can swimsuit edition at the check­men as a means to satisfy sex­such severely destructive eating preparing to celebrate the sav­have a copy of the swimsuit edi­out stands so that they could ual desires, they might point disorders as bulimia and ing mystery of the death and 

----~·-----------~-~--­
Accent 

Simone Spanu becomes the first male to attend Saint Mary's 
By AMY BENNETT 
Accent Writer 

Simone Spanu is dealing with a ratio for which most Notre Dame men would kill. Hut Spanu isn't a Notre Dame stu­dent: he's a full-time Saint Mary's sophomore, and being the only male among 1,629 female students isn't as easy as it sounds. 
Spanu, 19, was born in Rome, where his mother directs the Saint Mary's Rome program. He spent all of his school years in British and American schools in Rome. He is classified as a "special" Saint Mary's student, which means he is taking classes at Saint Mary's, but has not been admitted as a degree-seeking, or "regular" student. 
Although most of Spanu's friends express envy at his status as a Saint Mary's student, he maintains that it is anything but easy. On the first day of classes, Spanu admitted, "I was blushing." 
"I didn't realize at first what it meant that I was a full-time Saint Mary's student," he said. "l was just embarrassed to be in front of all these women. Then I felt priviledged to be here... On the other hand, I feel out of place because this is a school for women, focused on women." 
"There are a lot of things that women do here that I can't. If I want to enroll on a sports team, I can't. If I want to use the after-hours study lounge, I can't," he added. 
The fact that Spanu appears as a Saint Mary's student on the class roster confuses many professors. "The first thing I do in a class is introduce myself and tell (the professor) where I'm from and where I go to school." 
To Spanu the professors are one of the most appealing aspects of Saint Mary's. "The professors here will give you all the help and guidance you need. I feel at home because a lot of people know my mother. All her colleagues are here, and that makes me feel a little closer to her," he commented. 
Spanu admits that he rarely participates in class. "I'm intimidated by being in an all-women's class. I've actually never spoken except in my math, and then only because the professor called on me. I was not active at all, compared to other people." 
Penny Briner, a Notre Dame graduate student, taught Spanu in an introductory level sociology course at Saint Mary's last semester. "I assumed he was a Notre Dame student," she said. "The first time I knew he was a Saint Mary's student was when he corrected me during class attendance." 
Briner noticed that Spanu did not seem overly concerned with his status as the only male student at Saint Mary's. "My impression was that he didn't em­phasize it as much as the faculty and administration," she said. "I always wondered whether he was intimidated. 

-
... 
.. 
He would come to my office and talk to me quite often. Once we started talking in a one-on-one atmosphere, he began to talk quite a bit about his experiences at Saint Mary's. He talked to me a lot about the culture shock and the homesickness he was experiencing," said Briner. 
Spanu finds that few Saint Mary's students realize he is indeed enrolled there. "When people in my classes talked to me, they just assumed I went to Notre Dame. When people started seeing my Saint Mary's I.D., they began to believe me," he admitted. 
Spanu has not yet decided upon a major, but is leaning towards liberal arts or humanistic studies with Italian as a second major. Because Saint Mary's is an all-women's institution, he cannot receive a Saint Mary's degree. Spanu hopes to transfer to Notre Dame at the end of the 1991-92 school year. 
Spanu finds the differences between American and Italian cultures to be immense. "In Italy you wake up, have a coffee and maybe read the paper before work. After work you go out dancing with friends or just out for an ice cream. You spend Sunday with family and have an awesome dinner. After dinner you rest and go and watch a soccer game or go to a park. 
"You can do all that here (in America), but it's not something you do naturally everyday. Here you have to plan to do all that-in Italy you just do," Spanu added. 
With a grandmother in South Bend and friends in several major cities, Spanu has seen some of the different sides of America, but it is Chicago that he likes best. 
"I love Chicago. I want to live there someday. But not in the suburbs-downtown. Everything in Chicago is the opposite of Rome-it's tall, modern, huge, overwhelming." 
Spanu hopes to find a place to live in Chicago for the summer, rather than return to Rome. "It would be my dream to spend a summer there," he said of Chicago. "If I don't, I'll go back to Italy for sure." 
Spanu has also visited Los Angeles and New York City, where a schoolmate now attends college. Although he loved both cities, he maintained that "The Midwest is what America is for me... It's not affected by other cultures as much as other places. The Midwest is what people from other countries think of when they think of America." 
Although Spanu admitted that homesickness, the heavy work load, and South Bend's weather all manage to get to him occasionally, he said, "It's hard to believe you can (broaden your horizons) here, because you look around and it seems so empty, but when I go back to Italy, I know that's when I'll see it. 
Spanu said, "I want to know this country, the people. I am a citizen of this country, too. I want to learn a little more about who I am." 

Ride even opens up new lyri­cal territory on a few songs. 
America, Going Blank Again. 
I I I I 
L 
Tuesday, March 31, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Miami 
continued from page 20 
was 2 for 4 with and a run, but it was Danapilis whose three run homer in the eighth provided the lone Irish offensive highlight. 
"It was one of those games where it just wasn't our day. We try not to have too many," said Mee. "But we did come back and score six runs in the last two innings. We didn't lay down for them." 
The Irish got back on track on Sunday and almost pulled off a comeback win by scoring two runs in the top of the ninth to send the game into extra in­nings. It wasn't enough, though, as the Hurricanes scored in the eleventh to win the game 6-5. 
Notre Dame held the lead for a brief moment after scoring a lone run the third, but Miami scored five in the bottom half of the inning. Both starting pitchers had trouble. Junior Chris Michalak gave up five runs and seven hits in 5.2 in­nings of work while Miami's Silvio Censale lasted only 3.1 innings on the mound giving up two runs and four hits to the Irish. 
Junior Dave Sinnes, a Miami native pitched well in front of a his hometown fans. Sinnes re­lieved Michalak and was on the mound for a little over four in­nings and allowed only one run and three hits. In the eleventh inning, Sinnes walked three to set up Miami's win. 
Danapilis (3 for 4, 2 runs, 1 RBI), Binkiewicz (2 for 5, 1 RBI), and freshman Paul Failla (2 for 4, 1 run, 1 RBI) had big days at the plate for Notre Dame. The Irish chipped away at Miami's lead with a single run in the third, fourth, and seventh innings and scored two in the ninth. 
"It was good experience to play a team of that caliber," said Mee. "I think we learned a lot. We played well on Friday and Sunday, but we'd like to forget about Saturday." 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
The Irish's 29-21 halftime edge evaporated as they scored only six points in their first 14 possessions of the half. 
"They showed a lot of differ­ent zones and that caused some problems for us," MacLeod said. "But, we were able to weather some scoring droughts and do enough offensively to 
win." 
The Utes tied the game, 35­35, at the 12:34 mark when Phil Dixon hit a 14-foot jumper, but then failed to convert four chances or to take the lead. Keith Tower opened the advan­tage back to six, 47-41, at 6:10 when he followed his own shot with a pretty reverse lay up. 
"I felt like the shot was going long and I know it was coming back to me," Tower said. "I saw Afeaki coming so I ball faked and went around him." 
The lead reached eight, 52­44, when Tower hit one of two foul shots at 3:29. However, the Utes would not die. Dixon hit a three and Jimmy Soto put in his own miss to bring them back to within three with 2:12 left. 
Sweet answered with a tO­footer in the lane, but Soto then drove for a lay up. 
With Notre Dame up by three, Tower was called for a push underneath and Byron Wilson hit one of two to make it 54-52 with 1:20 remaining. 
At 1:03, Ellis missed a turnaround to give the Utes a chance to take the lead. This time they did when Dixon sunk a three with 34 seconds left. Before the questionable techni­cal foul, Bennett missed a trey, but got his own rebound to give the Irish a chance to win the game. 
Utah started the contest by missing its first six shots before Dixon nailed a three-pointer at the 15:20 mark to cut the Irish lead to 6-3. Bennett then set up Ellis for an alley-oop slam which triggered a 9-2 Irish run. 
Notre Dame got its largest first half lead, 27-13, when Bennett was fouled on the break and sunk both shots. However, Utah was able to get back into the game late in the half as Notre Dame scored on only one of its final six posses­sions. 
"It was not pretty," said MacLeod. "This is the kind of game you have to win to keep going." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  I l..____w_AN_T_E_o_____.  Newly remodeled 4-bdrm, 2-bath home. Near Lafayette Square Townhomes. All kitchen  Ramada Inn of Elkhart, Award Winning·Hotel. has rooms for Graduation weekend. Located at  hey nil STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  WANT COED HOUSING? Sign the Petition  
WORD PROCESSING  Ride to Vanderbuilt any weekend.  appliances, washer/dryer. 2-car  Toll Road Exit #92 Elkhart  Info on semester, year, graduate,  Man 3/30-Wed 4/1  
256-6657  Will help pay gas, etc. call Rich  garage. $700/mo. Ref. & 1 0-mo.  (12 miles from South Bend)  summer and internship programs in  
x1695  lease required. 277-4583.  Minimum stay 2 nights with $110  Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and  Michael,  
$$ FOR BOOKS 10-4:30 M-Sat  deposit per room. Send letter with  Melbourne. Programs start at  Happy in our love today  
Pandora's Books  SUMMER JOBS  Summer sublet-Turtle Creek  deposit to 3011 Belvedere Ad.,  $3520. Call1-800-878-3696.  Light as air we sail  
corner of ND ave & Howard  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  2-bdrm, furnished 271-8466  Elkhart, IN 46514.  away  
reg. hrs 10-5:30 everyday  PRESTIGE CHILDRENS' CAMPS  The Lizard King lives on! Down with  To my heart you hold  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  SUMMER SUBLEASE CHEAP!! I  the Crustaceans!  the key  
TYPING AVAILABLE  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Furnished Turtle Creek Townhouse  NEED 2 Tickets for Graduation  For you are all the  
287-4082.  CALL 1-800-786-8373  Available for summer.  2, 3, or 4  please call Neal at 283-1159  Irish Music and Dance  world to me  
students rent negotiable. 2  Every Tuesday at Club 23  Love you,  
Typing  Female roommate wanted for May.  bdr,2bath, pool. Call Mike/Matt  SEAMAISIN  Renee  
Pickup & Delivery  Lincon Park area, 2 blocks from the  X3414 or 3410  Custom-made  
277-7406  lake. 2bdrm/5rm, $415/mo plus  HAIR-BOWS  Hector- 
utilities. call (312) 975-5035.  ONLY $125 PER PERSON, MO.,  to the athletic dept.:  Feliz Cumpleanos!  
Seniors-Seniors  for large 4-BR, furnished house.  by Lynn and Sally  your time is gonna come  You're the best,dear.  
Graduating and still don't  Grad student seeking House­ Complete security system; washer  -led zeppelin  K. Farley  
have job plans?  sitting position for summer.  & dryer; 9-mo. lease. Deposit. 259­ call x2764  
New company that has been  Will care for plants & pets.  7801 or 255-5852.  _  It puts the lotion on its skin, or else  NEED A RIDE TO  
actually adding hundreds of  Mature & Responsible. Call  -various materials, designs  it gets the hose again.  RALEIGH/DURHAM AREA FOR  
people thru dramatic  Yanxi 277-7876.  Furnished:  and colors available- EASTER BREAK? Looking for 1 or  
expansion seeks motivated!  Turtlecreek Court Townhouse  (Stupid.)  2 people to share driving, gas, tolls,  
career oriented individuals to  STUDENT NEEDED to manage the  Available for summer rental  etc. Call Laura x4804  
help expansion into new  Notre Dame area of an Ann Arbor  Please contact 277-6259  In the heart of every woman, there  She sings a song and I listen to  
markets. Interviews will be  Business. No experience nee. but  is a Mardi Gras Mambo waiting to  what it says- Vegh and the Woz-man are the  
held on April 8 & 9 at Career  must be motivated, May 'til July.  Attractive studio's in lovely old  come out...  If you want a friend, feed any animal  gods of Indiana trivia. Call 1908 for  
and Placement. Call student  Good$. 313-930-6962 2-5 p.m.  Mansion 1/2 mile from ND 225­ There's so much space, I cut me a  details  
liason at x3457 to set up  300/Mo. plus deposit. Call 2879624  "It's about time" I went on NDE.  piece with some fine wine,  
times.  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  for summer and fall rentals.  Thanks Group 2 and everyone else.  It brought peace to my mind in the  
-fisheries. Earn $5,000+/month.  It was insane!  Summertime,  THE TUTUS ARE BACK ...  
LOST  Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8,000 openings. No  FOR RENT: 515 W. Marion; roomy  NO and SMC students:  And it rolled!  
experience necessary. Male or  3-story house, ample parking,  Informational session on summer  Heading for EUROPE this summer?  Mike from Fisher- 
Last Wed night!Thurs morning I lost  Female. For employment program  security, close to ND. 272-5509.  programs to London and Rome wil  Jet there anytime for $169 from the  You were at Senior Bar last  
a pair of eyeglasses with brown  call Student Employment Services  be held at 340 Maldeva Hall at Saint  East Coast, $229 from the Midwest  Thursday night, wearing a blue­ 
Carrera frames in Fitzpatrick or LaFortune computer labs. Call  at 1-206-545-4155 ext. 1597.  FOR SALE  Mary's on Wed. April 1 at 6:30p.m. Free pizza will be provided. Any  (when available) with AIAHITCH! (Reported in Let's Go! & NY Times.)  purple coat. The brunette from the end of the night would like to meet  
Frank at x1692.  Need ride to North Carolina  questions call Prof. Black at 284­ For details:  you. If you are unattached, please  
May 8th or 9th  For Sale:  4460. Spaces still available.  AIRHITCH(r) 212-864-2000.  call Nancy at x2781.  
Will split tolls and gas  '83 NISSAN SENTRA:  
I lost a Notre Dame Lacrosse  Call Dave 3633  4-d•, power brakes, excellent  HEY LES­ ADOPTION  
sweatshirt Sat. night somewhere on  mileage, engine hums like a dream,  Do you let all the women bowl  If you think it may be best for your  MCH  
South Quad. It has #34 on the front  Need a job for next year? Nanny for  new exhaust/brakes, great travel  strikes through your legs??  baby and for you to consider  I'm yours.  
and I really need it back. If you've  newborn in our Granger home, M-F,  car, very reliable!  adoption, please call us. We are a  Drink me to the dregs ... !  
found it, please call Kristine at  begin late Aug. Live in or out. 271­ $1,950 (firm)  dear bubba: what is a buttertly?A  responsible, childless couple with  Love you, MTS  
X3352.  1935  Call Joe: 273-2605  butertly is a very beautiful thing.So  values and traditions which offer a  
fluid,so effortless,so  child security, 2 loving parents, and  
Need ride to Cleveland( John Carrol  1osp bike,$25  picturesque.One often forgets that  a warm home. We hope you will  If you want to wish MOLLY  
LOST: Black Case Swiss tote bag  U. ) this weekend. Call  Chen 233-5735  this beauty is a product of much  choose us to be the parents of your  FLECKER a Happy 21st Birthday  
filled with books on 9th Hesburgh. Very important!! Call 273-9033.  John x1146 if you can help. II TICKETS IFOR RENT L------------' For Sale: chp. 1 way tick. SB to Los  love,effort and detirmination.For a buttertly was once a catipillar.lnching along slowly and carefully, taking just the right steps to achieve his ultimate goal.along  baby. Legal and Medical expenses paid. Please call Bill and Kathy, collect, at 219-322-8187. ADOPTION: YOUR BABY NEEDS  (3/31) come to Coach's TONIGHT and buy her a shot. Get there early cuz Jackie says she'll be passed out by 10! Pay backs are hell!!­PYN & Breezy  
LOST: One gold hoop earring  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Angeles. Monday, 5/18.  the way he does make some  A HOME AND OUR HOME NEEDS  
with a spiral pattern  219-291-7153.  Jim x1558.  mistakes.crawling up the wrong tree  A BABY! Young financially secure  
If found please return to 214  or crossing the street when he  Catholic couple looking to adopt  Make friends and serve the  
Farley or call x4049  3 Bedroom  -FAST CASH­ shouldn't.But in the end,after  and provide a loving home to an  community by joining  
Walk to Campus  Need "any" 2 commencm't  moving slowly and carefully and  infant. All Expenses paid. Please  NOTRE DAME CIRCLE K  
$555 Month  tix. Promise them now for big  making many mistakes along the  call collect (317) 364-0300 for more  Org. Meeting 7:00 PM April 8  
LOST: Gold Louisville Cardinal  232 3616  bucks ... PLEASE!!  Karen 2770  way, he becomes that pertect thing  information.  Montgomery Theater  
charm with ruby eye. Sentimental  of beauty and more importantly  Any? Call John 273-9111  
value! Reward! Call271-1177  COLLEGE PARK CONDOS-12  Paul Tsongas wants tickets!! Total  love,a buttertly.Honey,things have  Please, help me. If anyone out there  
NEW UNITS -1300 sq. ft. - $$ for 2-4 grad tix Mickey x1 846  been kind of rough this  has McDonald's Basketball Cards I  
Ironwood & Bulla -2 B/R -2 Bath ­ semester. Their has been changes  need them. If I achieve nothing else  X-mas in April!!!  
Lost: Gold Watch Niewland -LaFortune area ?  available immediately-call 287­0534 or 271-9268.  PERSONAL  in our relationship which have taken both of us time to adjust to .We are  in my life, at least I want to have the entire set. I will cosider buying,  "You'd better watch out, You'd better not cry ... "  
Maria x4421  still adjusting to these in some ways  trading, or even accepting them as  Only four more days until the annual  
Ideal house for graduate  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  now. We will continue to make  a gift. If you have any information at  X-mas in April celebration!  
student with family. 3 bdr  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  mistakes now and then,thal's  all concerning this please take baby  (Final Four will be televised.)  
LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI LOSTI LOST!  2 bath. One block from ND.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  natural. One things for sure honey, I  steps to the phone and call Quinn at  -Santa's BIG RED helpers.  
On Wednesday, 3/25, I lost my HP­ 637 Peashway. $525 month  289-1993. Office near campus.  love you from the bottom of my  x2059.  
17B business calculator somewhere  234-1714  heart. Nothing will change that.As  
on campus. SERIOUS REWARD!II!  I, myself, cannot.  time goes on our relationship can  VOTE FOR JAMIE O'BRIEN  **DALYS GILLING ..  
John x3588.  only be stronger from the things that  SBA TREASURER. JAM!E  Happy B-Day and 2 days!  
1 BDRM. FOR SUMMER SCHOOL.  have happened this semester. I truly  O'BRIEN  Luv,  
USE OF FACILITIES. $225/MO.  We are not strong  belive this.Never lose faith in me as  Cousin, Pseudo-Cousin, and your  
LOST  232-2794.  l.will never lose faith in you.Never  BREEN-PHILLIPS 2ND ANNUAL  therapist who needs one  
Men's spiral hairbone  You should be with us, feeling like  forget how important you are to  EUCHRE TOURNAMENT!!  
necklace somwhere between  we do...  me.Never forget how much I love  SIGN-UPS IN NOH AND SOH  
Flanner, Camp/Math, and ROTC  6 BEDROOM HOME. WALK TO  you.  FROM TUES. MARCH 31 TO  Try breakfast or lunch with a  
Please call Mike x1143  CAMPUS.FURNISHED.272-6306  raft, you are missed.  Love,A black bear from Maine.  THURS. APRIL 2.  view ... Greenfields Cafe.  

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1992 

NOTRE DAME 58· UTAH 55 VIRGINIA 62· FLORIDA 56 NOTRE DAME· MIAMI BOX SCORES TRANSACTIONS 
UTAH NOTRE DAME AB R H Bl MIAMI AB R H Bl Min FG FT Reb A PF Layson, 2B 6 1 2 1 DiMare, cf 4 0 0 Pis VIRGINIA (18-13) Counsell, 3b-ss 6 0 1 0 Berg, 2b 3 1 0 0 Dixon 32 
5-8 0-0 0-6 2 3 13 Burrough 3-10 1-4 7, Sttth 9-23 8-10 27, Jeffries Danapiiis, rf 4 2 3 1 Smith, cf 52 1 3 BASEBALL McGrath26 0-0 0-1 1-4 2 0
4 2-4 0-0 4, Alexander 1-5 3-4 5, Oliver 7-11 1-2 15, Binkiewicz, 1 b 4 2 3 1 Mora,rf 3 1 1 3 Amerlcon leogue Afeaki 39 7-16 1-2 2-4 1 4 15 Barnes 0-1 0-0 0, Parker 0-4 1-2 1, Smith 1-2 0-0 Mee, c-3b 6 0 2 1 Rupp, dh 4 0 1 0 BALTIMORE ORIOLES-Optioned Dennla 3, Totals 23-60 14-22 62. Rasmussen and Anthony Telford, pitchers; and
Tate 12 0-1 2-2 0-2 1 3 2 Leahy, dh 3 0 0 0 DiGiacomo, 1 b 2 0 1 0 Wilson 35 2-8 6-10 3-12 2 2 10 Failla, ss-if 4 1 2 1 Johnson, c 5 0 1 1
FLORIDA (18-13) Mark Parent. catcher; to Rochester ol lhe 
Grimsley 1-2 0-0 3, Poole 6-15 4-6 16, DeClercq International League.
So to 33 6-14 2-2 1-1 8 2 14 Baulch, ct 3 0 0 0 Llanes, 3b-1 b 5 0 2 0 
4-4 0-0 8. Brown 4-7 0-0 8, Cross 0-2 1-2 1, CHICAGO WHITE SOX-Traded Sammy So&a,
Rydalch 6 o-o 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 Rooney, lf-cf 3 0 1 0 Hernandez, ss 5 1 3 0 
Dyrkobotn 2-4 1-1 5, Kulsma 1-4 0-1 2, Stewart 2-ouitlielder, and Ken Patterson, pncher, to the 6 0-0 6, Hogan 1-5 0-0 3, Rowe 2-4 0-0 4, Totals Chicago Cubs for George Bell, outlieider, andDavison 14 0-3 1-2 0-1 0 2 1 Michalak, p 0 0 0 0 Elistrom, 3b 00 0 0 
Cain 1 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 DeSensi, pr-dh 1 0 0 0 Robinson, rf 1 0 0 0 
23-54 6-10 56. cash. Announced Wayne Edwards, pitcher, reluaed 
Wyan 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Maisano, ph 1 0 0 0 Tippen, ph 1 0 0 0 
HaKtim&-Virglnla 33, Florida 31. 3-Point goals-an outright assignment to Vancouver of the Paclllc 
Team 1-4 LiSanti, c 1 0 1 0 Anderson, ss 0 0 0 0 
Virginia 2-9 (Sm~h 1-1, Stnh 1-3, Parker 0-1, Coast League lo become a free agent. 
Totals 200 20-50 t2-19 8-34 16 21 55 Haas, c 0 1 0 0 Thompson, rf 0 0 0 0
Alexander 0-4), Florida4-14 (Stewart 2-5, Grimsley OAKLAND ATHLETIC~ptioned Steve Chitren 
NOTRE DAME Verduzco, If 1 0 0 0 Coleman. dh 0 0 0 1
1-1, Hogan 1-5, Cross 0-1, Rowe 0-2). Fouled and Kevin Campbell, pitchers; Dann Howitt,
Min FG FT Reb A PF Sinnes, p 0 0 0 0 Miranda, tb 2 0 0 0
out-None. Rebounds-Virginia 42 (Stith 15), outlielder-firlll baseman; and Mike Kingery and Eric 
Pts Censaie, p 0 0 0 0
Florida 34 (Poole tO). Assists-Virginia 16 Fox, outlielders; to their minor league carrp for 
Ellis 38 5-10 5-10 0-7 0 3 15 Gandorillas, p 0 0 0 0
(Alexander 9), Florida 12 (Brown 4). Total louis-reassignment. 
Taylor 26 1-6 1-2 1-1 2 1 3 NOTRE DAME 44 5 14 5 MIAMI 40 6 10 6
Virginia 14, Florida 19. A-NA. TEXAS RANGERS-Optioned Lance McCullers, 
3-7 3-4 1 4 7 E-Layson, Michalak. DP-ND 3, Miami 1. LOB-NO 12, Miami 15. 2B-Layson, Binkiewicz. HR-Mora (4). SB-
Tower 31 2-5 pitcher, to Oklahoma City of the American Bennen 38 4-12 5-6 2-8 6 4 t5 Association. Announced that Don Carman, pitcher, 
Hernandez 3 (11), DiMare 2 (6), Thompson 2 (10). CS-Danapilis (2). 5-t1 1-5 PITCHING 
Russell 7 0-1 1-2 0-3 t 1 IRISH liP H R ER BB so National League 
Joe Ross 6 1-1 0-0 1-1 0 3 2 Michalak 5.2 7 5 4 4 1 HOUSTON ASTR08-0ptioned Willie Blair and 
Cozen 11 1-2 0-0 0-1 0 0 2 Sinnes (L, 2-1) 4.2 3 1 1 7 4 Bob Mallicoat, pitchers; Eddie Tucker, catcher; and 
Jon Ross 4 0-1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 MIAMI Eric Yeidlng, Infielder; to Tucson of the Pacific 
Boyer 1 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 1 0 Coast League. 
Team 5-9 NEW YORK METs-Traded Terry Bross, p~cher, to Sweet 38 3-4 2 1 13 was assigned to extended spring training. 
Censaie 3.1 4 2 2 3 6 
Totals 200 19-49 18-31 13-39 12 18 58 the San Diego Padres for Craig Bullock, third 
Graves 3.1 5 1 1 0 2 baseman. Optioned Julio Valera, pitcher, to Gandarillas 2 3 2 2 3 3 Tidewater of the lnternalional League. Sent Chris
BOOKSTORE 
Crow 2 1 0 0 0 0 
Dannels, inlielder, and Orlando Mercado, catcher,Doorish 1.2 1 0 0 0 2 
10 their minor league camp for reassignment.WP-Sinnes. HBP-EIIstrom (by Sinnes). T-4:20. A-3705. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Optioned Francisco 
Oliveras, pttcher; Steve Decker, catcher; and Greg Michelle Harrrk:k and Her Jet Stream d. We may drbbie too much but we always score 21-13. NOTRE DAME AB R H Bl MIAMI AB R H Bl Litton and John Patterson, lnfieldertl; to Phoenix ol Anack c:l the Phyjitua-llwe<J Gravtty Beasts d. Ball Busters by forfett. Layson, 2b 3 1 1 0 DiMare, If 2 3 1 1 
the Pacific Coast League. Sent Craig McMurtry,5 BfQOklyn Bowlers from Brooklyn d. NBA Bleached 21-6. Failla.ct-ss 3 1 0 0 Berg, 2b 2 2 1 1 
pitcher, and Steve Lake, catcher, to their minor 10 Minutes to Wapner d. Win CharT'berialn's Love Children 21-14. Counsell, ss-3b 2 1 Smith, cf 4 2 2 3
5 league camp lor reassignment. Sweet Intoxication (Everybody Wang Chung Tonne) d. Coast to Coast 21-7. Binkiewicz. 1 b 4 t 1 Mora,rf-lf 3 3 2 4 BASKETBALL CJ's Voodoo Skybohers o1 Love d. The Nuclear Power 21-11. 
Mee. 3b-c 4 1 2 Miranda, 1b 3 2 2 3 Notionol B..ketboll A..oclotion Tejas Tornadoes d. Can, Run, Jurrp, or Shoot-Chicks love us anyways by forfeit. 
Danapilis, rf 3 1 1 4 Rupp, dh 3 0 1 1 CLEVELAND CAVALIERS-Signed Bobby Phills,Back off we're gonna shoot d. Shallow Thoughts 21-12. 
Desensi. dh 4 0 0 0 Johnson, c 4 0 1 1 lorward, lo a contract through the end of the 2 Mike's, 2 Dan's, and Dick d. Severe Chaling Ill-Cat Scratch Fever 21-11. 
Verduzco, if 2 0 0 0 Hernandez, ss 4 2 2 1 season. 
Arnold, Erik, BJ, and 2 other guys who know that the last view c:l the dome Is In the rear view mirror Lisanti, c 2 0 0 0 Robinson, rf 2 1 1 1 FOOTBALL 
d. Jeffrey Dahmer and 4 other guys who cut to get the ball 21-10. 
Bautch, cf 2 0 0 0 Anderson. ss 2 1 0 0 Notional Footboll LeogueHorticuhurlsts d. Goulash Tacos 21-5. 
DETROIT LIONs-Signed Harry Colon, safety. Sllrrtast presents the Mark Fnz d. Busty, Crusty, and 3 other luster ustys 21-15. 
Hartwell, If 1 0 0 0 Thompson. cf 2 0 0 0 
NEW ORLEANS SAINTS-Announced they have Barking Cliff Chickens d. The Red Team 21-10. 
Birk.lf 1 0 0 0 Best, if 0 0 0 0 
matched the Detroit Lions' olfer for Pat Swilling,Dudes d. We just wasted 5 bucks 22-20. 
Llanes, tb 2 0 0 0 
linebacker. Splittln' that d. Claaworka 21-6. 
DiGiacomo, ph 1 0 0 0 
Conodlon Footboll Leogue Team 1g d. Jon, Joe, Dr. Kevorkian. and 2 .... 21-13. 
Hoelker, c 1 1 1 1 
OTTAWA ROUGH RIDERS-Signed Michael
Eiistrom, 3b 2 1 1 0Break like the wind d. Team 372 21-5. 
Douchette, defensive back; Ron Meadows, wideHenderson. p 0 0 0 0The Shockers d. I like you Beny 21-t6. 
receiver; and Virgil Robertson, linebacker. The Shot Club Starring JB, JD, and a wild turkey d. The silk Igloos 21-17. 
NOTRE DAME 34 6 7 6 MIAMI 39 18 16 17 
TORONTO ARGONAUTS-Signed Bobby Futrell, One guy, another guy, and 3 other guys d. Muzza 23-21. 
E-Counsell2, Hartwell. Birk, Anderson. Mora. DP-NO 1. LOB-ND-7, M.a. 2B-Johnson. HR-Miranda (5), 
defensive back. Laertea' Despotic Rule d. Team Skiooth 92 2t-13. 
MOra (3), Hoelker (1), Danapilis (3), Robinson (3). SB-Hernandez (8). DiMare (14), Counsell (1). CS­
COLLEGE Logan Center B-Team d. Team 224 by lorfett. Layson. 
CENTRAL MISSOURI STATE-Named Bob Whoops d. Soowi, the Rocket, and 3 girls trying to score 21-g. PITCHING 
Sundvold men's basketball coach. 

What's up wnh that d. Lazy American Worl<&rs 21-7. IRISH IIIP H R ER BB so 
GEORGIA SOUTHERN-Named Peter Thurmond The Knobs d. A Foreigner, another foreigner, and 31azy Americans 21-16. Leahy (L, 3-2) 2+ 5 7 4 3 1 
quarterback and fullback coach. Reass;gned David The Swedish Chef and 4 Meatballs d. Recommended Dally Allowance 21-17. Price 1 0 0 0 3 0 
Saunders, defensive line coach, to slotbacks 
The Thundering Herd d. Pee-Wee Herman's School o1 Ball Handling 21-14. Allen 5 11 11 7 2 3 and Cliff slotbacks coach, to
coach Lewis,Dis Lea Pipe d. Mrs. Maher Is hot 21-9 HURRICANES 
defensive line coach. The Monostat 5 d. HPC, Hannibal Lechter, Jeff Dahmer, and 2 other guys who will take you to lunch Henderson (W, 7-1 ) 5 1 0 0 1 3 
MARSHALL-Announced the resignation of Judy21-5. Prado 3 6 6 3 2 
Southard, women's basketball coach. 

We're good enough. we're smart enough, and darn n. people like us d. Kamikaze ieltovers-The 
MISSISSIPPI-Named Rob Evans men's 
Sequel 21-8. 
basketball coach. 

Air Zebra II and the Backboard Maintenance Men d. State of Nature 21-3. 
NIAGRA-Named Bill Agronin women's basketball Phi Siamma Gramma d. Margaret Nowlin want-to be's 2t-4. 
coach. 

The Steins d. By George, we're good this year 21-12. 
ROBERT MORRIS-Named Tom Fleming men's The Rex St. Siam dunkln',trash talkln', low ridln' 5 d. The annoying boys 2t-12. 
and women's tennis coach. Automatic weapons, TF, and 3 other guys who shoot by themselves d. 5 guys that can outrebound. 
SOUTHERN UTAH-Named Bill Evans men's 
outshoot, and outrun the rosa, but who can, 21-0. 
basketball coach. 

Dribbling Cheetahs d. Where's Borowski 21-19. 
TENNESSEE-Named Malcolm Mcinnis associate Flipper and the Undertoea d. 3 Caucasians, a Hawaiian, and a Negro who can't jurrp 2t-15. 
athletic director for compliance. 

Observer d. 5 Girls who love to play with balls 21-9. No blood, no loul d. Cheerio boys 21-7. Pooh and the Danglers d. Cherry pickers 2t-5. 
.· 
-=-M.~ 
1'\0RftlU cTnTfR cfOR 1ttf 41 R T s 
THIS FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 8 P.M., UTILE THEATRE 
Meisenbach & Golden flute/harp duo 
TICKETS: $71$61$3 
Saint Mary's College Deportment of Communlcafton, Dance, and Theatre 

Dance &More... 
Fri.. April9. Sat .. April 11.8 p.m.; Sun.. April12. 7:30p.m. Choreography by Hollis Johnson. lndl Dleckgrafe. Julia Mayer McCarthy Tickets: $6/$5/$3 
Tickels for all evenls on sale altha Saint Mary's box office, localed in O'Laughlin Auditorium,Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Information: 219/284-4626 
----t!t--­
Sainc Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 




MERRILL LYNCH & CO. CORPORATE FINANCE ANALYST PROGRAM (Chicago Of.fice) 
The Investment Banking Division at Merrill Lynch recruits recent college graduates into the Corporate Finance Analyst Program, where they work with corporations and institutions..The division acts as a financial intermediary between corporations and investors, offering financing alteinatives and advisory services. New analysts will talke part in a six-week training program in New York at Merrill Lynch's World Headquarters before joining the Midwest Industrial Banking Group in Chicago. 
While this has traditionally been a two-year position, a number of analysts are invited to remain for a third year, and several of these are hired as first-year associates after completing their third year. 
When considering candidates for the positions in the firm, we look for a record of outst-anding academic achievement, extracurricular involvement, work experience, and demonstrated leadership skills. Successful candidates are articulate, able to write effectively. and able to work well with others. 
'; 

We look favorably on degrees in all subjects, though some familiarity with accounting, econonucs, finance, and computers is helpfuL Knowledge of these areas suggests an ability to readily acquire the tools needed for quantitative analytical work. 
All of these positions require a commitment to meet a demanding pace as well as the ent>rgy to see a project through, often under pressure. Merrill Lynch offers a competitive compensation package and an innovative relocation program. 
Potential candidates should submit a resume (no student proftles please) to the Career and Placement Office no later than Apriil, 1992. 
I 
~ 
I
l
I 
--~-------~----~--­
---------------~-----~­
Tuesday, March 31, 1992 The Observer page 15 
The Ultimate Experience-NO Ultimate Club takes off 
a great love of the game. He has played across America as well as overseas in Germany. He admits to playing basketball and soccer, but only to stay in shape for Ultimate. Veldman embodies the essence of the game. 
Someone still skeptical of a competitive game played with a frisbee should go and watch them play. This weekend, April 4-5, they will be on the road playing in the Big Ten Open at the University of Wisconsin­Madison. After the tournament they will return home and re­sume their practice schedule. They practice every Saturday and Sunday at 2:00. All are en­couraged to watch or play, but observers beware, anyone who comes may very well be drafted to play upon arrival. 
But once it starts you'll see a sport like no other that has given birth to an Ultimate genre of frisbee fanatics. Marti Wilson member of the South Bend team, has been playing for ten years and met her husband Paul playing Ultimate. J.R. a South Bend carpenter has also played for the last ten years and boasts a collection of over 200 team discs. These die bards can't wait for the game to catch on so that more people can take part in the Ultimate experience. 
Side 
~~O(,~~  19th Annual Program  
~~  ROME  
LONDON  June 14-July 13  
May 20-June 19  Travel in France,  
Travel in Ireland,  Germany, and  

continued from page 20 
The decathlon promises to be a battle royale, better than anything even the WWF could offer. Reebok certainly has a gold mine here, an amazingly creative ad series that defi­nitely catches the viewers' at­tention, and no doubt Dan and Dave will be beneficial to Reebok's sales in the long run. 
This, however, does not settle the ultimate debate. We know what both guys looked like as kids, we know that they Pump Up and Air Out, and it's plainly obvious to me that Dave makes the most noise when he works out. 
So who's going to win the gold medal this summer? 
Personally, I am picking Dan to win it all, though the two guys are really incredibly evenly-matched. That's just a gut feeling, so feel free to dis­agree with me. Either way, Reebok definitely wins, so there is something to be said for commercial sponsorship. 
Kudos to the advertising ex­ecs at Reebok, and also to Dan and Dave for expanding their marketability while perfecting their skills. 
To be settled in Barcelona ... 
Life is Short. Play Hard. 
CORRECTION 

In the March 18 Observer, it was stated in Jenny Marten's sports column that Basix was busted before spring break. This was meant to be a joke and was based on a rumor. The night club was only being checked for a valid liquor license. The Observer regret's the error. 
By SEAN SULLIVAN Sports Writer 
Ultimate is a sport growing in popularity around the world. In the United States alone, nearly every major city including near by Chicago has an Ultimate league. Most major colleges and universities have Ultimate club teams. 
The Notre Dame Ultimate Club is new this year. Ultimate is beginning to appear as a recognized varsity sport at some colleges and universities. 
Earlham College in southern Indiana now recognizes Ultimate as a varsity sport. The Ultimate Players Association has a growing membership of 
20.000 people. The city of South Bend has had a club for the last nine years. 
"Notre Dame really should have had a club long ago," says Tony Leonardo, president, founder and co-coach of the Notre Dame Ultimate club. Leonardo has played for the South Bend team for the last 
.., 

WASHINGTON HALL 
RESERVED SEATS $7, 
TICKET OFFICE. STUDENTS AND SENIOR CITIZEN WEDNESDAY. THURSDAY AND 
ourses as o 3/30/92 
8A 391 02 0768 ECON 403 01 3584 ECON 403T 01 3585 ENGL 328A 01 0175 ENGL 416G 01 3608 ENGL 311 01 1561 ENGL 475A 01 3351 ENGL 416F 01 3074 ENGL 485C 01 1581 ENGL 417 01 3611 ENGL 416H 01 3610 ENGL 492C 01 3628 ENGL 493A 01 3629 ENGL 495A 01 3630 ENGL 4788 01 3624 ENGL 471A 01 3623 ENGL 4408 01 3613 ENGL 460 01 3618 HIST 444A 01 3741 HIST 458A 01 3745 MUS 226 01 2095 PHIL 246 01 2198 RLST 240 28 9528 

four years. 
Surprised that ND didn't have a team, he founded the Notre Dame Ultimate Club this year as a freshman. Through his as­sociation with the South Bend team "The disc jockeys," Leonardo has arranged a beau­tiful partnership where the two teams practice with and against each other. The undergraduate Notre Dame Ultimate Club team members get to play with and learn from the more experienced South Bend Ultimate Team players. This symbiotic relationship is so close that the South Bend Ultimate Team comprised of graduate students and local residents actually has many undergraduate players. 
The game is very similar to football with two important ex­ceptions, a frisbee is used in­stead of a football and once the frisbee hits the ground there is an immediate change of pos­session. There is no whistle blown or halt of play, the disc is simply nabbed by an opposing player and thrust down field in the opposite direction. 

NOTRE DAME CoMMUNICATION AND THEATRE  
8:10PM TiCKETS ARE AVAilABlE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAfORTUNE HUDENT CENTER MAHERCARD AND ViSA ORDERS CAll 239-8128 DISCOUNTS ARE AVAilABLE FOR SUNDAY PERFORMANCES.  

The game is much like soccer in that the frisbee is constantly passed up field with intermit­tent back field passes. When a player catches a pass, like a basketball player whose picked up his dribble, he must remain planted on one pivot foot until he passes it away. 
"Ultimate has a lot of crosses between many sports, but it definitely has a flavor all its own," said Ben Barbera, co­coach and vice president. A de­fender may guard the man with the disc (the thrower) but may make no physical contact with him. 
The true physical, athletic and contact nature of the game becomes apparent once the frisbee is airborne. Much like football, receptions often bring colliding bodies and true feats of athleticism. Ultimate is just one continuous reception after another. More than any other sport in the world, Ultimate players will do anything to catch the projectile in play. Leaps and dives are the bill of fair. Ultimate makes good as well as average players put on spectacular athletic feats. 
Horizontal dives are an essential facet of the game. Die hard Ultimate Players call it "Goin H". As Dave Lybarger, Ultimate veteran who once tore three ligaments in his right hand going for a frisbee put it, "It's the most pumped up feel­ing you can have." 
But with these constant re­ceptions comes a new definition of tenacious defense. A de­fender must be on their oppo­nent at all times. Much of the excitement is the great defense and spectacular interceptions that bring on the barrage of possession changes. No one in all of South Bend puts together spectacular defense and incred­ible offense as well as Mark Veldman. 
"Mark does some pretty in­tense stuff," says Lybarger. 
The key to Veldman's play is precision passing. He has com­plete control of the disc. He's reminiscent of great quarter­backs in that he combines an incredible arm with an ability to thread the needle. But beyond his passing ability, Veldman is an awesome receiver and defender that is never afraid to "get flat" in mid air. 
When asked about the rever­ence and stardom with which other players treat him, Veldman modestly replied, "there are no stars in Ultimate." Veldman is a great player with 
~~ ND-SMC 
~~ ~t;, STUDENTS 
Scotland, and France Switzerland 
Courses offered in ART, BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS, HISTORY, EDUCATION, SOCIOLOGY, ITALIAN, BIOLOGY, POLITICAL SCIENCE 
Meeting Wednesday April 1 
6:30 pm Room 340 Maldeeva *Free Pizza **Past student and faculty participants will be present 
For information call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 

page 16 The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1992 
SMC tennis defeats Albion College 7-2 Irish wary after loss to Winthrop 
By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team (4-4) won a tiring match against Albion College on Saturday, 7-2, in the indoor courts at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The first home game for the Belles was an easy sweep in doubles play. Seniors Ellen Mayer and Marie Koscielski are a strong aggressive combina­tion in the number one spot. They defeated their opponents Jen Myers and Jen Friedline, 6­4, 6-1. 
The two played doubles to­gether as sophomores and are now happy to be back together. 
"Ellen is consistent with ground strokes," coach Jo-Ann Nester said. "Marie is a strong server and that's good for Ellen at the net. Ellen's tenacious baseline game makes for a good combo." 
Southwest Louisiana,  who  
eventually  won  the  
tournament, won 4-1.  


Sophomore Mary Cosgrove and freshman Andrea Ayres play the number two spot in doubles. They also prove to be a valuable combination for the team winning against Eve Kopp and Jen Basch, 6-1, 6-1. Cosgrove and Ayres play with the same game style, both are aggressive with the ball. 
"We both hit the ball very hard and she's fun to play with," said Ayres. 
Number-three doubles sophomores Thayma Darby and Shannon McGinn pulled off two impressive sets of 6-4, 6-1 against Jen Kerr and Kris Carnes. 
In singles play, in the first spot, Mayer was defeated by 
MSG 
continued from page 20 
throughout their history, com­piling a 43-18 record at the World's Most Famous Arena. 
Though this year's senior class has not had great luck at the Garden, certain players have been superb. 
The Irish have compiled a 2­3 record in New York since the 1988-89 season. But in the five games, Sweet has averaged 
20.4 points per game, and av­eraged .624 from the field (before tonight's 5-11 perfor­mance). 
And in Notre Dame's 88-76 win over #8 North Carolina in January, Sweet contributed 30 points to the Irish effort. but the guard was not the high scorer, as LaPhonso Ellis popped for 31. Elmer Bennett added 18 and a then-career­high 10 assists. 
The Irish will need similar career performances from their seniors Wednesday in order to defeat Virginia. 
Madison Square Garden luck can't last forever. 
Please Recycle This Paper When Done. Thanks 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Saint Mary's tennis is just getting the season started. This past 
weekend, the Belles beat Albion College. 
Myers, 2-6, 4-6. Number-two 

s L A v I s HINA B 


0 BIS • 
Koscielski eventually won 
H A B I 

T U E 0 V E R A T E against her opponent Friedline 
ERASE4~ J_J_TERAN with a twelve-point tie breaker, 
B A L E E T H E R S 0 

M A A M 0 
E 0 N N I T

6-4, 7-6, 7-5. Cosgrove swept 
m 
N E 
BIE
Erm

Kopp, but junior Natalie Kloefer 
E 
s 0
EIZ 

A S 
had difficulty defeating Basch 
S E 

L E and lost 6-0, 5-7, 6-1. Darby 
E R T * ~0
R E B U S 

M E A I R
sank Kerr, 6-1, 6-0. 

L A B 
Ayres had her first win of the 
D A B A 0 T T E R B 0 N A 

season in singles play, beating 
ETAMI'N'EI'AUroMAT
Carnes 6-2, 4-6, 6-4. 

R E M A K E S U L U L A T E .SANEST SENORES 
The Observer 
is now accepting application for the following position: 
Day Editor 
Must be available for any of the following afternoons: Tuesdays or Thursdays 
No Experience Necessary 
To apply, contaCt Colleen Knight at 239-7471. 

MONDAY AND TUESDAY 
APRIL l3AND 14 TRENT ARTERBERRY 
8:10p.m. Washington Hall 
Tidret.r: $R-\'orre Dame and Saim \lm 's Swdcnr\ $I 0-Gcncral :\dmission

• 
$5-{:hildrcn (12 and under) Group rates arailablc. LaFortune Center Box Ot1icc 
• 
I 

:-.time Trent Arterberry moves through a series of contemporary scenes • with a unique athletic grace and presence. His show ranges from hilarious descriptive mime m interpretive dance and includes improrisational 1 sketches with audience participation. Arterberry began stmlving mime in 1 the '70s with such masters as Marcell\larceau. 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I 
By JIM VOGL Assistant Sports Editor 
After playing with some of the country's best college soft­ball teams, Notre Dame figures to have an easy time with Division II member St. Xavier. 
But that's just what worries Irish head coach Brian Boulac. 
"St. Xavier can beat us. You can't let down," he said, re­membering the team's disap­pointing 7-3 loss to Winthrop College at last weekend's Southern Invitational. 
"Winthrop snuck up on us. We played flat, without the in­tensity we had the first day," explained Boulac. "We kind of looked past Winthrop. It was a discouraging loss." 
Notre Dame can't afford to look past St. Xavier, whom they host for a double-header today at 3:00. The Cougars, from Chicago, should field a decent team. Last year, they finished 43-28 under coach Lynn Olinski. The Cougars return slugger Sue Derschler (.405 batting average) and hurler Jackie Russell (20-5) while catcher/outfielder Brandi McCue is their top 
The Observer announces the 1992 -93 St. Mary's Staff Office Hours 
The Office is open Mondays and Wednesdays 10 -11 and 2:30 -3:30, and Tuesday and Thursday 12 -3 in 309 Haggar College Center 
schools. But why settle? 
Kaplan prep courses help 
students raise their scores 
and their chances of 
being admitted into their 
first·choice schools. Fact 
is. no one has helped 
students score higher I 

1717 E. South Bend Ave• South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
newcomer. 
"We've got to be consistent and be mentally prepared for every game," said Boulac, whose team picked up their in­tensity and avenged the loss by beating Winthrop 3-2 in the next game. The Irish finished in the middle of an elite pack finishing at 3-3 good for fifth among the ten teams compet­ing. 
In the first game of the tour­nament, the Irish scored their most impressive win of the season, downing ninth-ranked South Carolina, 4-1. 
They also gave a solid effort against 22nd-ranked North Carolina and seventh-ranked Southwest Louisiana. The Tar Heels beat the Irish 3-1, and 
In the tournament, Notre Dame's offense got a wakeup call and answered with 36 hits, including three homers. The squad hopes to continue its hitting arsenals behind the hot bats of centerfielder Ronny Alvarez and second baseman Christy Connoyer. 



Tuesday, March 31, 1992 
f·.·... ·..

Subpar·urus. Evansville 
By MIKE HOBBES Sports Writer 
. ::;:: 

The men's golf team traveled to Evansville this past weekend to co:mpe~ iP. the Evansville Intercollegiate Tournament. The tournament held at Oakmeadow wa.s a site that provided beautif'ul accommo-dations ap;d coverage despite the ptiijf conditions of the course. Unfortunately. it was not enough to spark the lrish tti the leader position. 
The competition 
consisted··· of Ball State, Kentucky University, Murray State finishing in top three positions with tbe Irish finishing in the middle of the pack. On the. whole, it appeared that .th~ 
f'ormance wa$ avera best. "We are fed" up .~~~~· mediocrity. We feel thafthese · guys are talented enough lfb go out and win. There is ti~ reason for them to finish in the middle of the pacl(i''1'Y stated assistant coach Pav~ Long. Leading the team was Cole Hanson. Playing in his first tournament, the freshman from Minnesota shot a 78 on Saturday to position him in third place for the day. He returned to shoot a 79 on Sunday for a total of 157. "Cole played well and he has a great attitude," said Long of Hanson's showing over the weekend. "H:e's a great kid. He has a lot of potential." Following Hanson was junior Chris Dayton :With scores of 82 and 77 for a total of 159 for the weekend. "It was a real disappoint:;.:: 
ment. We could have pl1'1;y;!:ld a lot better, but this weekend we did not show it~:' $"ld 
Dayton. . 
The Irish are Inoki . bounce back with s practices this week, 
"We want to put behind us and move on~ The majority of the season is still. ahead of us," addedirse captain Mike O'Connell.. 
.-:::.:-.,.:.. 
SUNDRY, APRIL 26 
The Observer 

Women's track places in two meets over weekend 
By JOSEF EVANS Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's track squad made their pres­ence felt in more than one loca­tion this past weekend, as they had athletes placing in both the 
U.S. Air/Nike Raleigh Relays at North Carolina State and the Alabama Relays in Tuscaloosa. 
At Raleigh, the relay team of freshman Becky Alfieri, fresh­man Kala Boulware, senior Diana Bradley, and freshman Sarah Riley finished strong in both their events, but not with­out some adversity. 
"We were running against the wind most of the time, and it was also really cold. (Those factors) did affect us," offered Bradley. 
Also a factor was the strong and unfamiliar competition the Irish women were up against. 
Eastern schools Notre Dame had not seen in the indoor sea­son, such as Wake Forest and North Carolina, proved to be formidable opponents with plenty of good runners. 
Still, Notre Dame's relay team managed a fifth-place finish in the 4 X 1500 meters race, with a time of 19:39, and improved on that in their final event, with a third-place running of the 4 X 800 meters. 
"We were a little disappointed with the first race, but we had people running alongside us in the 4 X 800, and we did a lot better." noted Bradley. 
In individual competition, freshman Eva Flood came through with a solid sixth-place finish in the 5000 meters, fin­ishing her event in 17:34, while at the Alabama meet, junior Karen Harris put her herself in fifth place in the shot put with a throwof42' 11.75". 
page 17 

MORRIS CIUIC AUDITORIUM 
ALL SEAlS RESEAUED: $19.50 AUAilABLE AT THl AUDITORIUM BOH OFFICE, IRRCKS,ORBIT REtOROS, AND WORLD RECORDS 
l:HRRGE: 284-9190 
Belles softball opens season 

By NICOLE MCGRATH SMC Sports Editor 

The Saint Mary's softball team hopes to begin its season today against Indiana University-Purdue University at Fort Wayne here at 3:30 p.m. 
The Belles' season has been put on hold for the past two weeks due to the inclement weather. 
"We are extremely anxious to start the season and cannot wait for today's game," said co­captain Carol Grobner. 
It will be interesting to see how the Belles fare without last year's star player Janet Libbing. Libbing is out for the season after tearing two knee ligaments while playing during basketball season. The Belles are feeling the loss at the bat and the loss of leadership on the field. 
Last year I.U.P.U.-Fort Wayne had a record of 19-10. The Lady Dons wrapped up the season 5-4 in the Great Lake Valley Conference Division II. 
The Lady Dons will be led by Coach Dale Van Houtin and look to be a formidable opponent 
7::50 PM 
Carol Grobner 

returning 11 lettermen; 7 of which are starters. 
The Belles will have to keep an eye on a few of the Lady Dons' players. Jennifer Martin, Andrean, Ind., was last year's conference leader batting a .550 average. She currently holds the position of catcher. Tina Menoi of Waterloo, Ind. last year held a .411 batting average and will be playing the position of center. Finally, Lisa Miller of Fort Wayne, will be covering the position of short­stop and last year had a .312 batting average. 
But that does not mean that the Belles do not have a couple 
BREEN-PHILLIPS' 2ND ANNUAL 
EUCHRE TOURNAMENT 
TO BENEFITlHE 
CATHOLIC WORKER HOUSE 
SIGN-UPS: TUES.-THURS. AT NDH & SDH $5.00 FEE/ TEAM 
. . The Observer/ R. Garr SChwartz Semor D1ana Bradley, shown here during the 1991 cross country season, competed at the Raleigh Relays this weekend. 
of cards up their sleeve. Lisa Bright, a freshman from Highland, Ind., should prove to be solid in the position of pitcher. She did a good job down in Florida over break as the team came away with a 4-3 pre-season record. 
Meanwhile the Belles are re­turning the entire outfield from last year. The trio is made up of Erin Wachter who will be playing left field. Stacy Bogataj will be taking the position of right field. Finally, Grobner will be playing center field. 
"She does an excellent job and covers a lot of territory," said Coach Don Cromer of Grobner. 
The infield is young but will try and hold their own against the Lady Dons. Jane Murphy, at catcher, is the only returning infielder. Sara Miller will be playing at first base while Margie Pelton will be at second base. Bridget McCourt will be set at shortstop and Kristen Martina will be taking on third base. 
Virginia earns NIT final berth 

By MIKE SCRUDATO Sports Editor 
NEW YORK-The Virginia Cavaliers (19-13) advanced to the finals of the National Invitational Tournament behind 27 points from Bryant Stith. 
"I think this was good for us," Virginia coach Jeff Jones said. "We did not want to come to New York and drop two." 
The game was close from start to finish as the lead changed hands 12 times and was tied on nine occasions. 
It appeared as if the Gators were taking control of the game when they went on a 7­0 run in the middle of the second half to grab a 49-45 advantage. However, the Cavaliers responded with six straight to retake the lead, 51-49. 
Stacey Poole ended the run by hitting one of two foul shots with 4:29 remaining. 
Mter teams traded baskets for two-and-a half minutes, Stith hit a baseline jumper with 1:58 left to give Virginia its largest lead of the game to that point, 57-52. 
Following a missed three­pointer by Florida's Bryan Hogan, Corey Alexander hit one of two from the line and Stith added two more after a Craig Brown layup to ice the game for the Cavaliers. 
"Virginia did a better job with the physical play on the boards," Florida coach Lon Kruger said. "They went after the loose balls, and hit the offensive boards especially welL They seemed to want it more." 
Virginia led 33-31 at the half despite shooting only 36 percent. The Cavaliers stayed in the game by outrebounding Florida 24-16, 12-3 on the of­fensive glass. For the game Virginia held an 18-8 advan­tage on the offensive boards, and a 42-34 overall edge. 
This will be the Cavaliers' second trip to the NIT Finals. They defeated Minnesota, 58­55, to win the title in 1980, the year the NIT expanded to its current 32-team format. 

page 18 The Observer Tuesday, March 31, 1992 
Notre Dame lacrosse to face Ohio-Wesleyan SPORTS BRIEFS 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish will once again look to Mike Sullivan and Randy Colley to supply its offensiveThe Notre Dame lacrosse 
punch. Colley scored three
team travels to Ohio-Wesleyan goals against Hofstra and leadsin search of its second straight 
the team. The Notre Dame
vietory against a Bishop squad 
offense will be tested by awhich has never lost to the strong Bishop defense, which
Irish. 
has held opponents to a scoringBoth teams enter the contest *"'~· 
average under nine points a
with identical 3-3 marks and game.
I ­

both chalked up impressive 
On defense, the Irish can relywins over the weekend. ·~~ on the improved play of theirThe Irish used a late scoring goaltending corps. The group
burst to top 19th ranked 
Randy Colley consisting of juniors Chris
Hofstra while Ohio-Wesleyan nineteen points, including a Parent, Patrick J:<inn, and Ryanopened NCAC play with an im­team-high 13 goals. The pair Jewell has been impressive aspressive win over Kenyon. 
had a combined eight goals in of late, holding usually high­The Bishops are led by senior the win over Kenyon. scoring Hofstra to only threeBill Bishop who leads the offen­Complimenting Bishop and goals in the final two periods of 
sive attack for the Ohio­
Greaves on defense is goal­Saturday's win. 
Wesleyan, tallying 20 points in tender Dave Breslin whose .603 After facing the Bishops, the
the first six games. Joining save percentage leads the Irish return home next
Bishop in the assault is junior Bishops. Saturday for a game with
Andy Greaves, contributing 
Denison. 

•Sports 
Briefs are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your name, brief, telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
Rockne Pool will be closed until further notice due to repairs. Rolfs Aquatic Center is open Mon-Fri from 7 a.m. to 4 


p.m. and Sat-Sun from 1 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 
•Irish 
Heartlights Spring 3 and 6 mile runs are scheduled for April 9 at 4 p.m. Students and staff can pick up entry forms at RecSports, LaFortune Info desk, and the Dining Halls. For more information, call 239-6100 and ask for Sally. 

•Bookstore 
Basketball team captains who don't have their schedules stop by the S.U.B. office on the second floor of LaFortune to pick up a copy of the schedules and a team list for your team. Preliminaries start on Monday. 

•sports 
Talk returns tonight at 8 p.m. on WVFI after a long hiatus. Call in to congratulate new Sports Director Noah Cooper or to say goodbye to Nick Campanella and Mike Pfarrer. 

•Referees 
are needed for Bookstore XXI games. Anyone interested should contact Bobby at 283-3515 of Patrick at 283­4078 by April 6. 


Second time is charmless for Irish tennis vs Florida 
the 13th-ranked Gators, the match paled in comparison to Irish were still pleased with the loss of Schmidt. He had an their performance at the meet. impressive 13-2 record before They went 2-1 to capture fifth the default in fifth singles and place at one of collegiate tennis' was 6-0 in third doubles. best meets. One of the three players who 
The fact that 12 out of the 16 have been playing at sixth sin­teams in the tourney were gles, either Ron Rosas, Tom ranked in the top-25 and that North, or Wojtalik, will have to the Irish loss was only one of a step into the five spot and per­number of big upsets in the form on short notice. tournament makes their finish "They have all seen action even more notable. this year so they are all very 
Number-two ranked TCU was capable," said Bayliss, "So we'll booted out in the semifinals by just have to go with the hot those dreaded Tarheels, on­racket." ranked Oklahoma State beat Besides Schmidt's default, the 14th-ranked Minnesota, and Irish also lost three other three another Irish opponent, Drake, set matches, including a tough beat a ranked San Diego squad loss for 44th-ranked Andy on their way to a sixth place Zurcher to a ranked Mark finish. Sixth-ranked Mississippi Merklein. DiLucia took the lone State ended up taking the title. Irish win with a 6-3. 6-3 victory 
The Irish faced that over Bruce Haddad. but nothing Oklahoma State team in their else clicked. first match of the tournament "Last time we faced them we and came away with a convinc­had Chuck Coleman at third ing 6-0 victory over a team that and Will Forsyth at fourth," was the Big 8 champion and a noted Bayliss. "They were NCAA tournament participant a switched this time and it pre­year ago. Notre Dame's third­sented a different matchup. ranked Dave DiLucia continued Maybe it hurt us, I don't know. his undefeated reign over col­You can't worry about those legiate tennis with a 6-2, 6-2 things." win over Eric Fahnestock and The Irish evidently did not the rest of the Irish followed dwell on the loss for long, as suit. they crushed Drake in the next 
"I expected a tougher match, match 5-1 to capture fifth place. given the fact that we have not DiLucia was tested by Martin been able to get outside for a Dionne 6-4, 7-5, but in all the while," said Irish head coach other Irish two-set wins Drake Bob Bayliss. "But we lost only was able to win no more than one set and we were really three games. sharp." "Drake had beaten two good 
The Irish's next opponent was teams in San Diego and the Gators, and they ended up Alabama, so going in I was a losing much than just a match. little concerned," stated Bayliss, One of the last matches of the "But in the end l was pleased." 
.. 5-1 loss was the fifth singles All in all, the Irish are happy match with Notre Dame junior with the results, even if they did Mark Schmidt, who also is not go as far as they wished. undefeated in third doubles "With that many good teams with Chris Wojtalik. here," said Bayliss, "You can't Schmidt lost the first set 7-6 expect everything to go accord­Sports Writer out the hard way, as they were by a team they previously de­in a tiebreaker, and late in the ing to form." bounced from this weekend's feated, as they beat North second set he rolled over his Next week, the Irish stay prestigious Blue-Gray National Carolina in the H.E.B. tourna­ankle while pursuing a baseline home to face West Virginia and
They say a team is always 
Classic by a Florida team they ment only to be bumped off in a shot. He suffered a second Wisconsin, where if things dotougher to beat the second time defeated earlier this year at the dual meet in Carolina a week degree sprain and should be go according to form they willaround. 
National Team Indoors. later. lost for 3-5 weeks. All of the add a couple more W's to theirThe fifth-ranked Notre Dame It was the second time this But despite the upset loss to Irish's other close losses in the stellar 15-3 record. 

Please Reduce Reuse Recycle 

The Official Class of 1992 "Once in a Lifetime" Stein ((F~ WMo Co.,ml' wllh Biuo ond Gold T•lm • '"'"' ~1•1..  Summer STORAGE  
Order m North & South Dining Halle & In the Huddle  RESERVATION  I  683-1959  J  
PICJQOfllll yquc S!tlo  
With your name, Scnoot or a Meuage  ~  APPROX 2 1/2 MILES NOnTII US 31-33  
On Sale: March 26th thru April 3rd  
From 11 :OOam to 1:OOpm PtrSGn~~hzahoos Adcl S 3 00 $ 15.00 Per Slain  l\1aster Mini Warehouses  

Today 
Tuesday, March 31, 1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
~\\"-IC\.\P,. 1>~1) t4t>.~IS \b 
00\"G :> MC\'1 1\-1£. LAWN, 

THE FAR SIDE 
JAY HOSLER 

AU CONTP.A\f<€, ToolS. Ttl£ P£0Pl.E SCP£111 IN<:a -UP Ill~ WORLD 
THEON£'5 THA1 
CARE TOO MUC.H. 
THAT CARE YouR RA C.£, REU&ION, OR S£')( ARE fjJ 
THE ON£5 THAT ~AKE () MISE: RABLE. 
DON'T CARE AN'/ OF THAT '; 


BILL WATTERSON 

~t. 9.\0 l 1-\\G\-\\ LE:t\R~ ANI) D\1:> SOI<\EI\\\NG fo.Pkllll nit. 
'{O'J? 

GARY LARSON SPIN JOHN MONKS 


Custer's recurrent nightmare Waiting for the data bus 
CAMPUS
MENU 

.. 
-. 

• 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's 
Chicken Strips Oven Broiled Salisbury Steak Chicken Garden Vegetable Beef and Bean Quiche Burrito Baked Chicken Quesadillas w/Herbs 
:;­"' 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 

7 p.m. Presentation/Discussion for SEI corporation for all interested students. Foster Room, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
8 p.m. African Film Festival, "Saaraba." Center for Social Concerns. Sponsored by African-American and African Studies Programs. 
CROSSWORD 
@Edward Julius Collegiate CW84-29 
50 Part of USAF 12 Rank above knight
ACROSS 

51 ----science 13 Endurance 1 Servile 52 "Aba-Honeymoon" 16 Relatives on the B Rich or prominent 54 Aquatic mammal mother's side 
persons 56 ----fide 21 Garden tool 14 Frequenter 57 Cotton cloth 27 Sky-blue15 Stuffed oneself 59 Eating place 28 Gloomy {poet.)17 Classroom need 61 Certain movie 29 "Valley of the-" 18 Experienced person versions 30 Relay-race item 19 Big bundle 62 Howl 32 Common suffix 20 Knockout substance 63 Most sound 34 Prefix: new 22 Suffix: body 64 Men of Madrid 37 House bug 23 Basic Latin verb 38 "The-of 24 Division of time Penzance"
QOWN
25 Insect egg 39 Tuscaloosa's state 26 Ship of old 1 Affair 40 Most tidy
28 Be afraid of 2 01 d TV western 41 Agencies 30 Nota-3 Edible mollusk 42 Site of famous 31 Old men 4 Workshop item observatory33 Musical pieces 5 Mineral suffix 43 Come forth 35 Exploit 6 With 10-Down, 44 Payment returns 36 Tennis term certainty 47 Computer term 37 Disciplined and 7 "Scarlet Letter" 53 "----for All austere character, et al. Seasons" 41 Radio or TV muff 8 Catholic devotion 54 Individuals 45 Heap periods 55 Mark with lines 46 Picture game 9 Assert 56 Heavy knife 48 Designate 10 See 6-Down 58 Past president 49 Mr. Gershwin 11 Minerals 60 Wine measure 
8ophomof'e Li..tef'af'y rA}{TASIA 
Thursday,. April 2
:Festi,va[ 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
1993 Committee Applications BVDSY 
Due April 10 Friday, April 3 Saturday,. April 4 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
.. \pplications available from Barb at the Student Cushing Auditorium 
Adm1ss1on 1s $2. 
STUDENT UNION BOARD
Government Office 


Sports 
• 
.­
.... 
• 
page 20 
RICH SZABO 
From the Sidelines 

Reebok is "shoe-in" for Olympic gold 
Th1~ Summer Olympics are coming to 
Bareelona soon. 
This promises to bn one of the greatest sporting events in the world. bringing together the best athletes from over 100 countries. who have dedicated their lives to the pursuit of one goal: the gold medal. No matter what the odds. these men and women have put in countless hours of training in hopes of having that one shot for glory. 
For some of these people, it will be their first chance, maybe their only chance, at competing on such a level as this. For others, maybe a chance to im­prove on past performances or even to repeat as medalists. 
There will be plenty of intriguing storins at Barcelona this summer. From Magie and the NBA Basketball team pounding its opponents into submission to the efforts of one of the greatest women's swimming teams ever assem­bled, this Olympiad promises excitement at every turn. Cable TV is even offering a triplecast just so you won't miss a second of the action. 
But no matter what you may ehoose to watch, bP-it tennis or wrestling, gymnastics or fencing, no single event will capture the attention of the world as mueh. yes, you guessed it, the decathlon. 
The decathlon is simply the quintessential sporting event. r~quiring superb physical conditioning and athletic prowess. Not only will the world be wit­ness to a stunning display of athleticism in the long jump, shot put, high jump, javelin. discuss, and running events, but more importantly, they will see history being made. 
That's right, sports fans. You shall all realize the answer to that question that has undoubtedly been preying on your minds for a few months now. You, the world, will find out exactly who is better, Dan or Dave. 
Do you know the kind of training that being a world-class athlete requires? Heebok certainly does. It must be abso­lutely staggering the amount of time and devotion these guys have. They started their regimens when they were only tod­dlers, spinning and running around and falling on their butts. If that's not how great athletic careers get started, then I don't know what would be. 
So, as these guys struggle with the rigors of training, one has to wonder if Dan and Dave really know if the other person is training in his shoes. That information would probably hurt their respective self-confidence. I mean, how could Dave possibly feel comfortable knowing that Dan is wearing Reeboks too? 
see SIDE/page 15 
By JENNY MARTEN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team had a weekend full of highs and lows as it took on the University of Miami, ranked second in the country, in a thre~-game series in Miami over the weekend. 
"It was a pretty successful trip if you 
:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;! consider that we pIa yed Miami and beat 
them 2-1 in their own park. We also INSIDE SPORTS played admirably in the last game, .------------------, taking them 11 innings," said Notre 
Tuesday, March 31, 1992 

What goes around comes around 
The Observer/ Jake Peters Notre Dame senior Keith Tower played solidly for the Irish notching seven points and seven rebounds against Utah in the NIT semifinals. 
Irish down Utah 58­55 on technical foul 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
NEW YORK-A controversial technieal foul on Irish coach John MacLeod in the second DePaul game may have kept Notre Dame (18-14) out of the NCAA tournament. but last night a similar technical foul on Utah coach Rick Majerus allowed the Irish to reach the NIT finals. 
• 
Virginia-Florida results see page 17 

• 
NIT Box scores see page 14 


With the Utes (23-11) leading 55-54, LaPhonso Ellis appeared to dribble the ball off his foot. but officials called a foul on Utah center Paul Afeaki and Majerus exploded. 
"It was deserved," Majerus explained. "I was wrong. I lost control and it cost my team the game." 
Ellis hit one of two foul shots and then Daimon Sweet sunk the two technicals to give the Irish the 58-55 win. 
"I feel bad about that," MacLeod said of the call. "But the oflicial that called it had no one in front of him and didn't hesitate making the call. I thought he (Ellis) got fouled." 
Utah showed why it is the nation's fourth ranked defense in a second half in whieh Notre Dame shot only 30 percent. 
"We went to more eombinations because we weren't matching up well in our man-to-man," Majerus explained. 
see HOOPS/page 13 

Notre Dame championship hopes still alive in MSG 
By ROLANDO DeAGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
NEW YORK-Notre Dame was able to pull a win out of its hat last night, using late foul shots to slide a 58-55 victory past Utah. 
With the victory, the Irish are one of only six college basket­ball teams left playing for the big prize, the fact that they are still playing gives them cause to celebrate. 
"We're kind of grateful that we didn't make it (to the NCAA tournament)", said Irish senior Daimon Sweet. "It could have been like fools' gold." 
An invitation to the field of 64 would have glittered in the headlines, but Notre Dame would have faced tough compe­tition. 
The Irish would likely have been eliminated before the NCAA Final Four. But here in New York, Notre Dame is play­ing for a championship. 
"I can personally say that I have never played for a cham­pionship either at Notre Dame or in high sehoul," said Irish senior Elmer Bennett. But now Bennett will have that opportunity Wednesday, as the Irish face Virginia in the NIT final. 
Though Notre Dame fell to the Cavaliers 83-56 in the mid­season, the Irish have gone 14-7 since, after corning out of the blocks this season at 1-5. 
"This shows that there can be a turnaround at Notre Dame," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "Now we are in the final of the NIT. No one expected us to be here." 
But this could be the best place for Notre Dame to be in a tough, elose game. The Irish have been stellar at MSG 
see MSG/page 16 

Irish baseball defeats Number 2 Miami 
•No Ultimate club getting started 
see page 15 
•Men's tennis falls In Blue-Grey 
see page 17 
•women's track runs at Relays 
see page 18 
•sMC tennis results 
see page 16 
~--------------------~ 
Dame coach Pat Murphy. "Miami is definitely one of the best baseball teams in the country year in and year out. This tells people aeross the country that we are capable of playing with the best." 
On Friday night, the Irish defeated the Hurricanes 2-1 thanks to the arm of junior Pitcher Al Walania. Walania (2-2) pitched a complete game allowing Miami only one run and seven hits while striking out nine batters, a career high, and walked only one Hurricane batter in the contest. 
Miami scored first in the game with a single run in the first frame. The Irish responded with two runs in the top of 
AI Walania 
the second to take the lead for good. Walania shut down the 'Canes for eight more innings escaping trouble in the seventh and ninth innings. Walania struck out the final batter to end the game with the tying run on third. 
"AI pitched outstandingly," said Murphy. 
The performanee earned Walania Midwestern Collegiate Conference Player of the Week honors. 
"Al Walania definitely pitched a great game," said Irish tri-captain Cory Mee. "He did a great job of shutting them out in addition to finishing the game." 
Saturday was a totally different story as the Hurricanes crushed Notre Dame 18-6 in a game that the Irish would like to forget. 
Miami started out the game with a four-run first inning and didn't stop until the Hurricanes had scored at least one run in every inning. Junior pitcher Pat Leahy (3-2) pitched two innings for the Irish and gave up five hits and seven runs. Sophomore Tom Price was on the mound for an inning and walked three batters while freshman Craig Allen pitched five innings. Allen was blasted for eleven hits and eleven runs. 
The Irish scored three runs in the sixth and eighth innings. Seniors Joe Binkiewicz, Craig Counsell, and Mee and junior Eric Danapilis provided what Notre Dame offense there was in the game. Hurricane Kenny Henderson (7-1) shut down the Irish in his live innings on the mound allowing no runs and only one hit. 
Binkiewicz went 1 for 4 with an RBI and a run while Counsell went 2 for 5 and also added an RBI and a run. Mee 
see MIAMI/page13 








