
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 26 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Sculptures returned to LeMans lawn 
By JENNIFER HABRYCH 
News Writer 
The exhibit by Chicago sculp­tor Marcia Kaplan will return to the Le Mans lawn during su­pervised hours this week before the sculptures move to another college exhibit, according to Doug Tyler, chairman of the art department. 
Students and visitors can view the sculptures Sept. 30 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Oct. 1 from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. before the exhibit moves to Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. 
After one of the four sculp­tures was damaged, the art de­partment removed them from the lawn Aug. 28 at the request of the Saint Mary's administra­tion. 
Faculty will supervise the outdoor exhibit and answer visitors' questions about the sculptures, Tyler said. 
Tyler said that the adminis­tration gave him three options last Wednesday: 
• The sculptures could re­main in the Moreau Galleries where they have been dis­
played since they were re­moved; 
• 
They could be displayed in the protected courtyard of Moreau Hall, or; 

• 
They could be displayed on the grounds for a brief time. The art department accepted the this option. 


"We were working to come up with an answer that would be good for everybody," said Tyler. "Everything is square now." 
Because of the damage to one of the sculptures and the issues that arose after their outdoor display, the art department will send a letter to the Saint Mary's community to inform them that the sculpture will be displayed outdoors, according to Tyler. 
"We want to make sure there is no shock, and that everyone will get a chance to view the sculptures the way they were intended," said Tyler. 
The Saint Mary's Faculty Assembly passed a resolution Sept. 17 requesting the return of the sculpture to the lawn with proper security. 



Playing with fire 
Alumni Senior Justin Hartings demonstrates his juggling act. 


Police raid Commons; 105 cited 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
The Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (S.U.D.S.) task force raided The Commons early Saturday morning, issuing 105 alcohol violation citations to the bar itself and to minors ranging from 20 to 14 years of age, according to Sgt. Jim Moon of S.U.D.S. Two people were taken into custody. 
S.U.D.S received information that minors were permitted to enter The Commons and pur­chase alcohol, according to Moon. About 1 a.m. Saturday morning, plainclothes officers of the Indiana Excise entered the bar and found reason to raid the bar. 
Officers from the Indiana Ex­cise, Indiana State police, St. Joseph County police, South Bend and Mishawaka police departments assisted in the raid. 
Indiana State law prohibits 
see RAID I page 4 

Give Kids a Chance Coalition announces Childcare Awareness Week 
By BECKY BARNES Coalition is comprised of served," Glass said. The center employees and students. Graduate Students' Union who 
Assistant News Editor graduate students, staff and is also too expensive for some The location is a key issue presented a childcare needs faculty members who wish to employees and students, she because the coalition would like assessment to the Board of demonstrate the need for a added. a center with a "high degree of Trustees, Associate Sociology
In an effort to bring attention child care facility on the Notre Most other universities do parental involvement," Glass Professor Richard Williams, to childcare needs at Notre Dame campus and for a have childcare facilities, said. The center should be who served on a subcommittee Dame, the Give Kids a Chance parental leave clause in according to coalition member accessible to parents so they on child care, Jennifer Bracco,
Coalition has declared this week University employees' contracts, Julia Douthwaite, assistant can spend time with their ·a teacher in the ECDC, Glass "Childcare Awareness Week." said Jennifer Glass, associate professor of French. The lack children during the day, she and possibly Sr. Kathleen 
The Graduate Student Union professor of sociology and of childcare at Notre Dame is continued. Cannon, associate provost, who is sponsoring a campus forum coalition member. "scandalous seeing how this Wednesday's forum will is currently accessing the child­on childcare Wednesday, Childcare is currently university stresses family address issues concerning the care needs on campus for the September 30 at 7 p.m. in the available to Notre Dame values," she said. need for childcare on campus, administration. Foster Room of LaFortune, and employees and graduate According to Douthwaite, the what constitutes quality child the second annual "Bring Your students at the Early Childhood Coalition would like to see a care and how to make this care Friday's lunch will be followed 
Child to Lunch Day" will be held Development Center (ECDC) at childcare facility on campus affordable at Notre Dame. by games on the lawn in front Friday, October 2, at noon in Saint Mary's College, but the with a high standard of care of the Administration Building,the Oak Room. waiting list for the center is "as and with a sliding fee scale to Speaking will be Reynold and all students are invited to The Give Kids a Chance long as the number of families make it affordable to all Nesiba, a member of the join. 

Brain tumor takes life of SMC sophomore 
By ELIZABETH impression in the minds QUINLAN a,ud lii'larts of her friends. "1· will miss and think .of her for th~restof my life;11 said EmilyGarvey, a friend: She 
Saint Mary's sophomore added that the ln!!IS was Danielle Zock died ause it Wednesday morning Pawating Hospital in Niles, Mich. due to complica~~ns resulting from. a brain tumor. 
Zock was di July 1991 treatment Clinic. Th succeeded hislc1Wimt thitl''''i growth of the February she was fiOJ)etJUI for the future and loc•ldrtsz forward to te Saint Mary's this seniles·ter. according to het friend 
News Writer 
Christine Juras. ·········· · 
In July, she became too::··,·'''#'".::;;.·. mt\imii)tlali~()fj:tril~tttlori$ 
weak to undergo radiation therapy any longer and slipped into a coma. 
Professor says older workers will bring changes, challenges to future workforce 
By LORI LINDLEY number of working hours and 
News Writer 
making buildings more acces­sible to older people through devices such as automatic 
With the rapidly increasing doors. number of people over the age of fifty in the United States "Flexible hours and job-shar­comes a changing role of older ing, which are used now mainlyworkers and new challenges for for working moms, could also employers, said Ken Milani of become a possibility now for 
the accounting department. somebody in their 60's," Milani said. 
"People are living longer for a variety of reasons, including When a person is ready to better nutrition, better personal retire, the change from working care and better .health care," full-time to not at all can be 
Milani said during a Friday Fo­very traumatic. "It's like shock rum at the Center for Social 
Urging people to retire to therapy," Milani said. 
Concerns Friday. 
make room for the next gen­eration of executives may not To combat this problem, Mi­
In the past, employees have 
be the best thing to do, since lani continued, companies are been expected and sometimes some older clients may not re­now trying "retirement re­
required to retire at a certain hearsal" programs that allow
late to "the 38-year-old Top Gun 
age, he said. Now, people stay 
young partner," Milani added. an employee to reduce hours 
healthy longer and many have gradually or leave for several no desire to retire. Still, older employees have months before deciding to retire different needs. "One of the permanently.
"It seems like a tremendous 
things that we may have to do is 
waste of a natural resource to to change the work place in Milani said one problem in 
me," Milani said, explaining eliminating mandatory retire­
response to an aging employee 
that older workers are still pro­group," Milani said. ment is that often employeesductive and useful to a com­may want to remain after they pany. This includes reducing the are no longer productive. 

------~~ 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Expand your 
•


consciousness: 

~!Y9Y. ,,9.~erseas 
have many opportunities to develop our consciousness of the world, as well as any other forms of consciousness we may experience along the way-semi-M 
consciousness, altered ark Krejci c o n s c i o u s n e s s ' Business Copy Editor unconsciousness, etc. We are able to make choices within this sphere of opportunities which begin to shape 
our mind and personality. I made a choice freshman year that affected me in this way; to apply for the ND International Study program in 
Toledo, Spain. 
The obvious benefits of international study are the incredible opportunities available to you, which are as follows: 
1) A Travel Adventure: Imagine yoursel backpacking through Europe by train, visiting castles, cathedrals and museums in the most historically-famous cities and sites of Europe. 
Picture yourself spending Christmas at a ski chalet in a picturesque little mountain village in the Austrian Alps. 
Think about celebrating New Year's Eve with people from all over Europe in Prague, Czechoslovakia (or the location of your choice). 
Imagine yourself laying on the beaches of the Spanish Costa del Sol for Spring Break. 
Although this is just a brief summary of my personal traveling adventure, it does not even touch the other incredible possibilities of the ND International Study Programs in Chile, Mexico, Japan, Jerusalem and Australia. 
2) Mastering another language: Almost without need of comment, the benefits of being bilingual are virtually limitless. 
However, these benefits just scratch the surface of what an international study ex­perience entails. 
Your international study experience broadens your perspective of the world. There's something satisfying and truly educational about getting to know the thoughts and opinions of persons from other countries. It can change the way you think. 
The experience teaches you to be inde­pendent. It allows you to be the mature, young adult you are, capable of making your own decisions. It allows for growth. 
The experience challenges you. You will have to respond to unique circumstances. 
How do you convince a pesky Moroccan you don't need his help as a tour guide? Answer: You don't. If you wish to keep your sanity, you let him take you to see things. And if possible, settle on a price beforehand. Just don't go into· carpet shops (unless you're looking to buy and have a couple of hours to be entertained). 
Your experience may not only cause you to appreciate the cultures of others, but if you are willing, you will also form friendships with people from all over the world. 
And very importantly, you will always share a 
special bond with the Notre Dame and other 
students with whom you share the experience. 
International study is not for everyone. However, very few regret it. 
So consider how an international study experience could develop your consciousness o the world and life. 
And don't worry, Notre Dame doesn't change too much while your gone. But you will. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are 
those of the author and not necessarily those of 
The Observer. 
Today's Staff Lab Tech: Pat McHugh 
Production:
News: 
Melissa Cusack 
Julie Barrett Cynthia Ehrhardt Sarah Doran 
Accent: 
Sports: 
Susan Marx 
George Dohnmann 
Graphics:Systems: 
Anne-Marie Conrado 
Jon Halloran Beth Duane 
Viewpoint: 
Business: 
Cynthia Ehrhardt Susan Marx 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


The Observer 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL 
BYU has strict dress code 
•PROVO, 
Utah-It all started with a seemingly harmless concession to modern fashion two years ago, when straight-laced Brigham Young University decided to allow knee-length shorts. Now it's possible to catch a glimpse of thigh on the Mormon campus and students are being warned the rising hemlines on shorts and skirts must subside. President Rex Lee said violators aren't expelled nor is their tuition raised if their hemlines aren't lowered. Encouragement comes from a poster showing young men and women in knee-length shorts standing around a red sports car. The caption says, "Don't sell yourself short." The license plate on the car reads: "2ZNEEZ." Students are encouraged to confront violators and, if necessary, turn them in to the Honor Code Council for counseling. 

•GR 
EN BORO, N.C. -A tobacco company developed a cigarette in the late 1970s that posed far less risk of causing cancerous tumors in test animals, then refused to market it, a newspaper reported Sunday. Researchers for Liggett Group Inc., then called Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co., isolated the major, cancer-causing ingredient in tobacco smoke and rendered it harmless, said chemist James Mold, the company's former director of research. Liggett's XA Project began in 1954 with the hope of reviving business. By the late 1970s, the Durham company had developed a safe cigarette, but it was never introduced, the News & Record of Greensboro reported 


OF INTEREST 
•A 
Tour of DeBartolo Hall will be held for faculty and staff at 4:30 today. It will begin outside the Educa­tional Media Office near Room 116, DeBartolo Hall. 

•congressman 
Tim Roemer will speak at the Center for Social Concerns tonight at 7:00 on "Poverty and Democracy in America: The Domestic Agenda." 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 25 
VOLUME IN SIIARES NYSEINDEX 154,266,000 -0.50 to 231.89 S&P COMPOSITE 

-0.64to 421.50 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
-1.83 to 3,319.00

UNCHANGED 578 

GOLD 
-$3.70 to $347.80 oz 
SILVEH 
-$0.04 to $3.807 oz 
) I I' 
'. 

Monday, September 28, 1992 
INDIANA 
Pandora's to give out free bonks 

•south Bend-In observance of National Banned Books Week, Pandora's, Literacy Central, will be offer­ing free copies of banned or challenged books this week. The store, located on 808 Howard St., plans to give customers a free copy of Maya Angelou's "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings," A.B. Guthrie's "The Big Sky," or John Steinbeck's "East of Eden" or "The Grapes of Wrath." These four books were banned or challenged in some U.S. schools in 1991 because of ei­ther vulgar language or explicit themes. Pandora's will also conduct its fourth annual Penny Book Program this week by allowing any student from kindergarden through high school to buy any used book for a penny. 
CAMPUS 
S~eech team wins awards 

•Notre Dame AIDS Awareness is having its first meeting tonight at 7:00 at Montgomery Theatre in the LaFortune student center. Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's student wishing to volunteer on or off campus should attend. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 

• 1904: A woman in New York City is arrested for 
smoking a cigarette on Fifth Avenue. 

• 
1905: Reports circulate citing thousands of native killings in the Congo condoned by French governor. 

• 
1947: U.N. asked to end Soviet control over Yugoslavia, Poland, Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania. 

• 
1967: LBJ denies military victory is U.S. aim in 



Vietnam. 

• 1979: Larry Holmes retains heavyweight title with knockout over Earnie Shavers in 11th round. 


page 3 
Monday, September 28, 1992 The Observer 
Families of Jap.anese internees paid 
<>itnu.......... to receiving tm~, .. JI:WJI..rrt. Swartz gave titled, "The"~ of Teaching in a+? Re!lea:rch TJniversjty. ~"' ·+· .;;., 
Focusing on the delicate alance between teaching nl,i ...s.research in a university, Swartz was rather critical of the ad­ministration's deter· mination to transform 
Dame into a national '""'"'n"'"'"h uniyersity. 
:SPE~cn1ca1ty,·' Swartz ques­. . ancy inl!t. 'the a,mount ,.,.. money":.,..· university researchers!\' 
· · and the amount 


Club Column 
SEPTEMBER 28, 1992 
1) All Clubs must make an appointment with their division chairs for their first semester meetings. Information pertinent to all clubs will be discussed. Contact your division chair for an appointment time. And remember to check your mailboxes regularly. 
2) Campus Fellowship meeting on Friday, 9/25 at 7:30p.m. in the Stanford/Keenan chapel. 
3) Campus Bible Fellowship meeting Tuesday 7 P.M. room. 303 Haggar. 
4) Children of Mary invites anyone interested in praying the rosary every Monday through Friday at 4:30p.m. in the Grace Chapel. 
5) Notre Dame Accounting Association presents Ernest & Young and Baxter Healthcare Corporation. An interactive presentation on public and corporate accounting, Wednesday, September 30, 7 p.m., room 223 Hayes-Healy. 
6) Asian American Association meeting Tuesday, 9/29 at 9:30p.m. in Notre Dame Room (2nd floor Lafortune). 
7) Society of Hispanic Engineers/ Society of Mexican-American Engineers and Scientists meeting Monday, 9/28 in 356 Fitzpatrick. 
8) Student Art Forum: Our first movie is Thursday, 10/1. The group will meet 7 p.m. at The Snite Museum. 
9) Physical Therapy Club meeting Monday, 10/5, at 7 p.m. in 182 Nieuwland. 
All registered clubs may place short announcements of meetings and activities in the CLUB COLUMN. Entries are due in the Club Coordination Council Office by 5 p.m. on Thursday. 


ANDREW DICE CLAY 
IN CONCERT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER Sth 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium Tracks Records, Orbit Records, and World Reco~ds CHARGE BY PHONE 235-9190 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions and Contemporar-Y Presentations 

HOLLY, Mich. (AP) -A half century after the United States interned Japanese-Americans in the wake of the Pearl Harbor attack, President Bush on Sun­day acted to compensate the spouses and parents of volun­tary internees for "one of the darkest incidents" in the country's history. 
.Congress apologized for the action in 1988 and passed a law that the individuals who were interned or relocated should be 
Office 

paid damages. Bush's approval of an amendment to that law expands redress to others in the amount of $20,000 each. 
The amendment increases by $400 million the amount in the initial fund. 
"No monetary payments can ever fully compensate loyal Japanese Americans for one of the darkest incidents in Ameri­can constitutional history," the president said. "We must do everything possible to ensure that such a grave wrong is never repeated." 
Bush signed the amendment into law at the end of a two-day whistlestop campaign by train through Ohio and Wisconsin. 
Judy Smith, the deputy White House press secretary, said the purpose of the bill is to com­pensate people who are not of Japanese ancestry, but are spouses and parents of those who were interned voluntarily. 


OPEN MICROPHONE BEGINS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1 
all are welcome -active participation encouraged 




A STRONG PARTNERSHIP 
AND 

There's a lot of talent at GE, too. Couple this talent with technology leadership, strong financial performance and a·management team second to none and you've got the recipe for a truly world­class company. 
Stop by the Placement Office and get all the details. 

Invitational Sign-up: 
September 28 -29 
Open Sign-up: October 12-13 Fast •Creative •Competitive 
An equal opportunity employer Campus Interviews: November 5-6 
/n the past two years, GE has hired more Notre Dame grads than ever before. Why? Just look in the mirror. There's a lot of talent under the Dome. 

. "~~ ·-~~-----~~-~---~--~---------...J 
-----------~----~---~ ------------------------------~---------­
page 4 The Observer Monday, September 28, 1992 
Protestors in Russia fight police 

MOSCOW (AP) -Authorities imposed a 60-day state of emergency Sunday in an au­tonomous region of Russia where thousands of demon­strators demanding the release of a detained Muslim militant ,clashed with police, news re­
ports said. 
The Interfax news service said at least 20 people were in­jured, two with bullets, in the confrontation in Nalchik, the capital of the southern au­tonomous republic of Kabardino-Balkaria, which borders Georgia. 
Muslim militants from Kabardino-Balkaria and other regions of the Russian Cauca­sus, united in the so-called Confederation of Caucasian Mountain People, have been helping separatists from the Georgian region of Abkhazia. 
The protesters in Nalchik demanded the resignation of Kabardino-Balkaria's presi­dent, Valery Kokov, and the release of the confederation's leader, Moussa Shanibov, In­terfax said. Shanibov was de­tained earlier this month for sending militants to Abkhazia. 
Kokov imposed the state of emergency early Sunday after protesters clashed with security guards on Saturday at Nalchik's television center, leaving two demonstrators and one guard injured, Interfax said. 
Hours after the state of emergency was imposed, thou­sands of protesters again clashed with riot police and at least 20 were injured, the op­position Kabardian People's Congress said in a report car­ried by Interfax. 
lnterfax quoted Kabardian parliament deputy speaker Mukharbi Ulyashev as confirm­
Bosnian president urges Muslim help; War rages 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Bosnia's Muslill) president on Sunday appealed to Muslims around the world to help his besieged people, while new fighting raged around the capital and in the north. 
Serb media reported many casualties from a three-day battle in the northeast, and claimed Muslim fighters mas­sacred hundreds of Serb civil­ians. Two Serb civilians were "impaled and barbecued" in Milici, 50 miles northeast of saved from annihilation. There is no time to waste," Izetbegovic said Sunday on his arrival in Islamabad, the Pakistani capital, for a two-day visit. 
Izetbegovic -the third Bosnian official to visit Muslim Pakistan in a month -said he was seeking moral and financial backing, not weapons, from the conservative coalition government in Islamabad. 
The United Nations has banned arms sales to all sides in the civil war. 
Yugoslavia over the objections of ethnic Serbs. Reports of torture and killing, and people expelled from their homes have emanated from both sides. 
In the most recent fighting, the warring forces have sought to establish communication lines before the cold and snow set in. 
Intense shelling rocked the center of Sarajevo Saturday at nightfall, and Bosnian territo­rial forces said Serbs used mor­tars and tank guns to blast suburbs to the south, northwest and west overnight. Sniper fire was reported hitting many locations in the New Town district. 

No casualty figures were available. 
Heavy Serb casualties were reported in fierce fighting in and around Milici. Belgrade television late Saturday showed dozens of mutilated bodies and said it was the aftermath of battles in the northeastern town. 
Sarajevo, the Belgrade-based But his special envoy told r----------------------------. 
Do you know this famous chemist? 


Happy Birthday Anne Mccasland! Love, Joanie, Rachel, Dana, April and Meaghan 
ing some people were wounded and that the ongoing protest rally was of "unpeaceful na­ture." 
The People's Congress said Kokov had agreed to fulfill the protesters' demands as soon as possible, including lifting the state of emergency and freeing Shanibov, Interfax reported. 
Meanwhile, Georgian leader Eduard Shevardnadze made an unplanned stop in Moscow en route from New York to discuss the Abkhazian problem with Russian President Boris Yeltsin on Monday, lnterfax and the !TAR-Tass news agencies said. 
Georgia sent troops into Abk­hazia, a rich Black Sea resort, in August to root out supporters of ousted President Zviad Gamsakhurdia. 

Raid 
continued from page 1 
anyone under 21 years of age from entering a tavern. Viola­tion of this law is a Class B misdemeanor punishable by a maximum fine of $1,000 and imprisonment for up to 180 days. 
Pasquale Anastasio, owner of The Commons, must appear in front of the Alcohol Beverage Commission in Indianapolis, according to Sgt. Firtl of the South Bend police department. 
Depending on the tavern's past record, the Commission could decide to close down the tavern for a number of days and fine Anastasio for Friday's charges. 
Names of persons cited were not made available to The Ob­server at press time. 
Tanjug news agency said, quoting SeJ;,.bian sources. 
The massacre report could not be independently con­firmed, as is most often the case with stories of atrocities that emerge almost daily from the nearly 7 -month-old civil war. 
Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic, in Pakistan on Sunday, pleaded with the Mus­lim world for help one day after peace envoys cited accounts of Serbs forcing Muslims from their homes in the north and attacking them as they fled. 
"The Serbians have launched a prolonged, brutal and inhu­man aggression against Mus­lims. The Bosnians have to be newspapers in Pakistan Satur­day that Bosnians badly need arms to defend themselves, and getting weapons was a key priority for her government. 
"We don't want arms to build up a big army. We only need them to enable our people to defend themselves against the atrocities of the Serbs," Sadzida Silajdzic was quoted as saying. 
Diplomatic sources in Pak­istan say a powerful religious party, Jammat-e-Islami, already has sent "volunteers" to help loyalist forces. 
The war has claimed more than 10,000 lives since majority Muslims and Croats voted on Feb. 29 for independence from 

PROCTER & GAMBLE 

The people of Procter & Gamble present an 
overview of our Finance organization and 
employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to learn more about us so we







FINANCE 
can Jearn more about you. 
NOTRE DAME RECRUITING 
INFORMATION PRESENTATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1992 NOTRE DAME ROOM LaFORTUNE 7:00 -9:00 P.M. 
CASUAL DRESS APPROPRIATE 
INTERVIEW DATES SEPTEMBER 30, OCT.l, 1992 
------------~----~---~-----.......----~~-­
Monday, September 28, 1992 The Observer page 5 
IU Bloomington receives endowment for minorities 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP)­Lilly Endowment has given $1.1 million for programs intended to increase African-American and Hispanic students and faculty on Indiana University's Bloomington campus, university officials announced. 
The money will pay for pro­jects to make'the campus envi­ronment generally more sup­portive of minorities, for a mentoring program, financial aid, minority faculty research, staff and faculty diversity training and better responses to racial incidents. 
"These programs are obvi­ously much needed and come at a time that should greatly benefit the campus commu­nity," Bloomington Chancellor Kenneth Gros Louis said in a statement. 
The grant was awarded be­fore Bloomington students re­ported several racial incidents early this semester. 
Philip Rutledge, special assis­tant to IU President Thomas Ehrlich, said the initiatives soon will expand to all eight IU campuses, and are intended to make IU's enrollment reflect the composition of the state's population. 
"Retention's a key problem, .. Ehrlich said at the trustees business meeting Saturday. "This grant will help in a num­ber of ways, we believe, en­hance retention." 
Based on an NCAA report of 1983 and 1984 freshman classes, the graduation rate six years after entering IU in Bloomington is 21 percent for black students compared to 56 percent for white students and 53 percent overall. 
Black and Hispanic enroll­ment at IU in Bloomington this year is 5.6 percent, up from 5.4 percent last fall but not yet at the 7 percent goal for fall 1993. 


Armando's Barber & Hair Style Shop 
1639 Edison Road South Bend, IN 46637 Walking Distance from Campus Across from the Linebacker Appointments Encouraged Walk-ins taken on a 1~ come, 1~ serve basis 
YOU ARE INVITED 
Old College Nights 
A time for shared discussion, hospitality nnd prayer welcoming those seeking to explore an interest in the priesthood or brotherhood in the Congregation of Holy Cross 
Are you considering a life choice at this time? 
* 

Are you wondering how God is calling you to live out your baptismal ·commitment? 
* 

Would you like to meet others who are reflecting on life choices? 
* 

Are you looking for answers to questions about the priesthood and religious life? 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 
7:00 P.M. -8:30 P.M. at The Old College "The Signs That Tell" 
How do I know if I have a vocation to priesthood or religious life? 
The Old College is located on the Notre Dame campus facing St. Mary's Lake and adjacent to the Log Chapel and Architecture Building 
For information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-6385 

The Observer/Kathy Daly

Bump, set, spike....block 
Students participate in the annual Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament which took place Sunday on South 
Quad. Proceeds from the tournamnet were donated to the American Heart Association in memory of . 
former Lyons resident, Karen Whitman, who died of a heart attack during the summer. 
Valparaiso workers vote for union 
VALPARAISO, Ind. (AP) ­Valparaiso University's house­keeping, maintenance and cafeteria workers will vote Wednesday whether they want union representation and col­lective bargaining. 
"We're not down on the uni­versity," said cafeteria worker and unionist Sue Miller, who earns $6.21 an hour after seven years on the job. 
"But I know what unions have done for their members, and I want the security they have," she added. 
VU President Alan Harre won't comment on the cam­paign, but the university has hired the Indianapolis law firm of Ice, Miller, Donadio & Ryan to wage a six-month anti-union campaign. 
Fliers urge workers to weigh such VU benefits as "departmental parties" and "optional insurance" against potential Steelworkers union burdens such as union dues. 
Workers say managers have been urging them in one-on­one sessions to vote against the union. 
In response, pro-union workers say unionization is a weapon against bad working conditions and arbitrary pro­motions. 

Union leaders say if they lose Wednesday's National Labor Relations Board election, they will try again. 
"Organizing is very difficult under these times," said orga­nizer Sandy Sutton. "But we're not leaving." 

WE'RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS. 
Partnership for a Drug-Free America 
Ft) r S t.' n i o r \. u r -.. i n g ~ t u d t.' n t " 

NURSING 






HORIZONS 
A seminar to help you prepare for personal and professional decisions. 
October 16 & 17, 1992 Mayo Medical Center • Rochester, Minnesota 
SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS 
• 
Transition: From New Graduate to Expert Nurse 

• 
The Future Nurses of Oz 



BREAKOUT SESSIONS 

• 
Financial Planning • Preparing for Your Job Search 

• 
Collaborative Practice-What It Is And What It Isn't 

• 
State Boards: Are You Ready? 


Your $10 registration fee covers sessions, instruction materials and food. Mayo Medical Center will cover the cost of lodging for out-of-town participants. ­
Deadline for registration is October 9J 1992 
Calll-800-545-0357 for registration information and brochure. 

Mayo Foundlltion is an affirmalitJt• actiolltmd c•q11al "l'ltclrllluif.lll'tiumltlr 111111 •'"'l''''.lft.''· A smokt-fr<r institution. 
Monday, September 28, 1992

page 6 The Observer 
ELECTION '92 


Clinto~ will keep playing offense till the end 
INDIANOLA, Iowa (AP) -Bill Clinton, who sometimes seems to run the cautious campaign of a front-runner, vowed Sunday to "play offense all the way to the end" as he courted votes on the steak-fry and barbecue cir­cuit of Middle America. 
"We've gone into areas where Democrats don't normally win," Clinton said, landing in Iowa fresh off a 20-hour day of touring New England states that normally support Republican presidential candi­dates. 
"I've got a good chance to win the Western Plains states," said Clinton, who was heading on to traditionally Republican South Dakota. "So I'm just going to keep running an offensive campaign. I'm going to play offense all the way to the end." 
Clinton holds a comfortable lead in Iowa now and his visit to an annual steak fry held by Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin was mostly seen as a returned favor. Harkin, a former primary rival, quickly turned into a faithful supporter for Clinton. 
South Dakota has three elec­toral votes, Iowa seven. 
The Democratic nominee boasted about what he called an aggressive last two weeks ­noting that he'd stormed through GOP territory, cam­paigned with Republican busi­ness leaders and the former. chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. William Crowe, and flushed out his policies on tech­nology and manufacturing. 
Still, he conceded he'd blocked out chunks of time for rest and preparation for the as­yet presidential debates, hop­ing, he said, to "clear the cir-

l)/STUDENT EXCHANGES Ll at Clark Atlanta University in Atlanta, Georgia 
and 
Xavier University of Louisiana in New Orleans, Louisiana 
Spring 1993 
Informational Meeting Tuesday September 29, 1992 7:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Student Center 
ALL N D JUNIORS WELCOME 
cuits" and be mentally pre­pared for a go-round with Pres­ident Bush. 
Clinton is leading Bush in na­tional polls but has been sec­ond-guessed lately for slowing down. Clinton sometimes now just holds one big campaign event a day -rather than the round-the-clock hunt for votes he relentlessly pursued during the primaries. 
"About the concept of sitting on the lead, that's one way I can lose, that's why I decided to gin it up," Clinton told re­porters. 
Clinton said he planned a six­day-on, one-day-off strategy for the final five weeks. 
The Arkansas governor was scheduled to take a day off Monday, but wouldn't rule out a last-minute trip to Dallas to court supporters of Ross Perot. He was dispatching eight aides to Dallas to make the case that he had the best plan for reviv­ing the economy and bringing down the deficit. 
District candidates spar over health care 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. (AP) ­Rep. Frank McCloskey and his challenger in the Nov. 3 elec­tion, Richard Mourdock, both portrayed themselves as· champions of health-care but split sharply over term limits and taxes in a televised debate Sunday. 
The two also sharply attacked each other on the question of personal integrity in the last of three scheduled debates in their race for the seat in Congress from Indiana's 8th district. 
Magic says will vote 
. tt:;::=~ 


for Clinton 

WASHINGTON. (AP) ­Basketball star Earvin "Magie" Johnson has endorsed Democratic presidential candidate Bill Clinton and implored blacks to vote in November's election. 
"We -have to make sure that we understand that we can't take four more years_ of the Bush administration, that we have to now get on the Clinton bandwagon and ride him all the way into November," Johnson said Sunday on NBC's "Sunday Today." 
. ·~=::::: ... 
Johnson's comments came after he resigned from the National Commission on AIDS on Friday and accused the administration of ignoring the panel's work. 
McCloskey, a five-term 
1

Democrat, said a government­backed plan similar to Canada's would solve the problem of rising medical costs which have made health-care coverage unaffordable to many Ameri­cans. 
He said Democratic presiden­tial candidate Bill Clinton's "play or pay" proposal stood the best chance of being passed by Congress. Under the plan, employers who do not provide medical insurance for their workers would pay into a gov­ernment fund to cover their health costs. 
"Ultimately, I think we are going to have to have something closer to a comprehensive single-payer type plan, or doesn't necessarily have to be totally single-payer, but in con­cept ... the major part of the 
_ funding could come through the federal government through federal revenues and, ... let's face it, taxes," McCloskey said. 

c5ainl !Jl(ary's College 
'!Jeparlmenl o/Communicalion, '!Jance and'Jhealre announces 
Jludilions 
for 
Y'a&oy 1i!hI£. .. 
· by Jlane !Jj{arfrn 
r5eplember 2<5 & 29 7-10p.m. 'Rm 016 7?egina Jfa// 
Xo experience orpreparaHon necessary. 7emale roles ofalltypes and a1es aoada£le. c5cripls aoada£/e in C07Jf Office, (1 /0 JlToreau, c5'JltC) on JlTonday, c5eplember 2/. 
7or more iiJjormalion, please callihe C07JfOffice U4-4640 

Heavenly 
Dinner Deal 

Every Sunday to Wednesday 
Spaghetti 6 Tomato Sauce 


$2.99 
per person 
If thou has not tasted our delicious Italian offerings, here's a temptation: our very own Spaghetti and Classic Tomato Sauce Dinner. This sinful portion includes homemade Minestrone soup or crisp salad and devilishly hot loaves of San Francisco sourdough bread. An enlightening offer good Sundays thru Wednesdays until October 28, 1992. 
9.... 
Spaghetti Warehouse 
• Gn•at Italian f"ood. All-American Fun. • 
501 North Niles • In The Works Hotel • 232-4414 
Good Sunday through Wednesday. until October 18, 1991. dinner only. Not good with other discounts. coupons or specials. 
Monday, September 28, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Zulu leader breaks from negotiations 
KWAMASHU, South Africa of the Zulu-dominated Inkatha (AP) -The country's second­Freedom Party, made the an­most powerful black leader nouncement a day after his ri­broke off talks with the gov­val, African National Congress ernment Sunday, dampening leader Nelson Mandela, met hopes that South Africa's politi­President de Klerk in a cal crisis can be resolved soon. promising bid to restart black­
Mangosuthu Buthelezi, head white negotiations. 
lJfcoming Events 

TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 29 DR. ALAN DOWTY Professor or Government and 

International Studies, Faculty Fellow, Kroc Institute "THE STRUCTURE OF ISRAELI OPINION ON ARAB-ISRAELI ISSUES" 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
THURSDAY. OCTOBER 1 DR. DAVID CORTRIGHT 
Visiting Faculty Fellow, Kroc Institute "A REPORT FROM THE GORBACHEV FOUNDATION" 
12:15 p.m. Conference Room 103 The Hesburgh Center 
Everyone Welcome 

INSTITUTE FOR INTERNAJIONAl I IIIIIPEACE STUDIES 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
l 1 
There is little chance of a breakthrough without Buthelezi's participation. 
In what was seen as the most positive development in three months, Mandela and de Klerk met Saturday and said they made substantial progress to­ward restarting negotiations the ANC broke off in June over mounting political violence. 
They announced one agree­ment to free 150 imprisoned activists Monday. They include Barend Strydom, a white supremacist who gunned down eight people, and Robert McBride, an ANC member who planted a car bomb that killed three people. About 300 more will be freed by mid-November. 
They also called for restric­tions on carrying weapons and for fences to be placed around migrant workers' hostels. The measures were seen as ANC victories over Inkatha because Inkatha supporters control many hostels and insist on car­rying traditional weapons. 
The ANC-Inkatha feud is 
considered the main cause of township warfare that has claimed 8,000 black lives in the past three years. 
Buthelezi, in an angry speech at a Zulu rally, said he and his Zulu followers had not been consulted and therefore would not abide by agreements reached between de Klerk and Mandela. 
"My view is that negotiation for the future constitution for South Africa cannot go ahead," Buthelezi told 10,000 cheering supporters in KwaMashu, a black township outside the eastern port city of Durban. 
"I will withdraw ... from fur­ther discussions with the gov­ernment until I have had the opportunity to consult widely on the way forward," he said. 
lnkatha "will reject any at­tempt by Mr. de Klerk and Mr. Mandela to prohibit Zulus from carrying cultural weapons," Buthelezi said. 
Iran starts talks on disputed Persian Gulf Islands 
ABU DHABI, United Arab Emirates (AP) -Iranian and United Arab Emirates diplo­mats opened talks Sunday aimed at ending a dispute over three Persian Gulf islands that could wreck their newly warming relations. 
Iran's claim to the islands has drawn U.S. concern. They lie in the mouth of the strategic Strait of Hormuz, the only gateway to the oil-rich gulf region. 
No details were given on the closed-door discussions over c·ontrol of Abu Musa, and the 
Greater and Lesser Tunbs. Seif 
Saeed Saed, director of Gulf af­fairs at the U.A.E. foreign min­istry, and Mustafa Fomeni 
-~-----~--====================~----.,. 


ADD UP THIS VALUE AT THE 


OAK ROOM 
FRESH MADE-TO-ORDER OMELET 
FILLED WITH DICED HAM AND AMERICAN CHEESE 
SERVED WITH HASH BROWNS, TOAST, AND A FRESH CUP OF COFFEE 
ALL FOR ONE LOW PRICE! 

$2.45 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28 THROUGH THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1992 
7:00 A.M. -10:30 A.M. 
THE OAK ROOM IN SOUTH DINING HALL 
Haeri, a former Iranian ambas­sador, led the two delegations. 
Iran seized the Tunbs, claimed by by the Arab sheik­dom of Ras al-Khaimah, in 1971. Iran and the federation of five emirates share control of Abu Musa. 
But earlier this month Iran claimed sole sovereignty over Abu Musa, angering much of the Arab world. 
Iran used the island to launch attacks on oil tankers and U.S. Navy escorts during its 1980-88 war with Iraq. 
Last Wednesday, Acting U.S. Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger warned Iran against using force to settle the dispute after Kuwait raised· concerns about Tehran's intent. 
Tehran has accused the West of provoking the dispute, saying it tightened control over the island to foil an American plan to build a naval base there. 
Pope holds first Mass since cancer 
VATICAN CITY (AP)-Pope John Paul II celebrated Mass before 50,000 of the faithful and beatified 17 Irish martyrs Sunday in his first appearance in St. Peter's Square since colon surgery in July. 
The 72-year-old pontiff looked slightly bowed, and his voice weakened on occasion, but he seemed reasonably strong and in good health during the two­hour service. 
In his homily honoring the Irish clerics and lay people, the pope referred to the strife involving Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland. 
"God sustained them in their trials," he said of the martyrs, who died during England's attempts in the 16th and 17th centuries to impose the Anglican Church on Ireland. 
"May He also sustain those who work for reconciliation and peace in Ireland today," said the pontiff. 
Also beatified were two Spanish nuns and a priest ­Rafael Arnaiz Baron, died 1939; Nazaria Ignacia March, died 1943; Maria Josefa Sancho de Guerra, died 1912 -and a French nun, Leonie Aviat, who died in 1914. 
Beatification is the final step before sainthood. 
Since surgery on July 15 to remove a benign bowel tumor, John Paul has slowly been returning to public life. He made a few appearances while on vacation in the Dolomite mountains in August and had his first general audience in his vaca­tion home of Castel Gandolfo on Sept. 9. 
Applause rose up as the pope, wearing gold vestments, walked slowly toward the altar on the steps of St. Peter's to begin the Mass. 

World's Greatest Laundromat 
1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center (Behind Werntz Hardware) 
271-7675 Open 7 days • 7 a.m. to 1'1 p.m. r----uro71d'·; c;,-;;t;;t" ~;.;~;;·o~~t---l 
I 1813 South Bend Ave., at Campus Shoppes Shopping Center I 
(Behind Werntz Hardware) 
I Open 7 ·Days 271-7675 7:00AM to 11:00 PM I 
: 50% Off Any Drop-Off Laundry : 
regular 65c a pound 
1

I Same Day Service 
L-----------------------~ 
Drop off laundry and dry cleaning Same day service Monday-Friday 
•self 
service •snack bar 

•free 
coffee •no smoking sections 

•children's 
play area •4 TV's &1 big screen 

•pool 
table •video games 

•friendly 
attendants •air conditioned comfort 







Business 
page 8 Monday, September 28, 1992 
Corporations discuss their environmental efforts 
By KATIE MURPHY News Writer 
How corporate America can take a leading role in solving environmental problems is the main issue to be addressed at a conference held today and to­morrow sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, according to Father Oliver Williams, associate provost at Notre Dame and co­director of the event. 
The conference titled, "Business Leadership in the 
Environmental Crisis," will highlight the environmental efforts of the McDonald's Corporation, 3M-Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Indiana-Michigan Power Company, Texaco, Inc. and International Paper. 
Following each company's presentation, there will be a discussion with a panel of envi­ronmental experts. 
"We have a very balanced panel," Williams said. "[The corporations] are going to take some critical hits. We'll have a good dialogue." 

Talks continue to end two-day GM strike 
LANSING, Mich. (AP) -Gen­eral Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers resumed talks Sunday in an effort to end a two-day strike that has halted production of the auto giant's second-best-selling car. 
GM and union officials re­sumed negotiations at 1 p.m. after meeting for five hours Sat­urday. There was no immediate word on progress, company spokeswoman Linda Cook said. 
About 4,200 members of UAW Local 602 walked off the job Friday at the Lansing body plant that makes the outer body of the Pontiac Grand Am. 
The strike over unsolved local grievances quickly forced the shutdown of the nearby Lansing chassis plant where the Grand Am and the slower-selling Oldsmobile Achieva and Buick Skylark are assembled, idling another 3,000 other workers. 
Cook said some work would be scaled back at the company's Lansing metal fabrication plant if a settlement wasn't reached Sunday. The fabrication plant makes metal parts for most of GM's car models. 
Local 602 workers complain some health, safety and work standards at the plant violate their local agreement. 
A major roadblock to settle­ment is a change in the way breaks are taken that is eliminating as many as 350 "tag relief' workers. 
In August, GM switched the plant breaks to "mass relief," in which all workers take breaks at the same time and the production line stops. 
A nine-day strike at a parts plant in Lordstown, Ohio, idled nine GM assembly plants before it was settled Sept. 5. 
Meanwhile, in Indiana, at An­derson's Inland Fisher Guide Division of GM, negotiations are continuing involving the plant, which makes bumpers and ex­ternal lighting for most GM cars and trucks. UAW Local 663 ear­lier this month asked for a five­day intent-to-strike letter from the international union. 
agement, have been planning this conference for almost a year. "We are so pleased to be able to get these five major corporations to tell their sto­ries," Williams said. 
The conference will include a keynote address given by Former Secretary of the Interior, Stewart Udall, at 7:30 
p.m. tonight. Udall, author of "The Quiet Crisis And The Next Generation," served under the administrations of President John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson. 
"[Udall] is one of the original leaders of the ecology move­ment, which has slowly evolved to the environmental move­ment," Houck said. 
Other guests and speakers include Jack Lorenz from the Izaak Walton League, Patrick Noonan of the Conservation Fund and Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus. 
The conference is being held at The Center for Social Concerns today beginning at 9 
a.m. and ending with Udall's speech at 7:30 p.m. The con­ference will begin tomorrow at 9 a.m. and end at 12:15 p.m. 

Swiss tunnels provide alternate trade route 
GENEVA (AP) -Swiss voters jn . a r~ferendum Sunda,y convincingly approved their most ambitious tunnel project, 
a. $10;7 billion plan tP build two high.-speed rail lines under the Alps a:p.d better link the 
~oun;(ty  with  the rest Pr  
Europe.  
With  the  vote,  the  

~ra.ditionall¥ .. independe.Ot Swiss cleared a hurdle to joining a l9~nation European free .trad~ are~ on Jan;. J. Swiss 'efitryinto the area, widely seen as a prelude to European Community membership, will be put to a referendum Dec. 6. 
A 63.5 percent majority, or 
1.297.316 people, voted for the tunnels, and 36.5 percent, or 745,898 were opposed, ac¢prding to the: federal government's final tally. Turnout among the 4.5 million 
eligible  voters  was  43.4  
percent.  
A  simple majority  was  

enough to start construction, which the government says would be completed by 2010. 






The Observer 
Accent department is holding a mandatory meeting for all new and old reporters. 
Monday, Sept. 28 8:15p.m. Foster Room, LaFortune 
All those interested in writing for Accent, please attend. For more information, call 239-5303. 
NoTRE DAME CoMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

DIRECTED BY MARK PILKINTON 
Wednesday, October 7, 8: I 0 pm Thursday, October 8, 8: I 0 pm Friday, October 9, 8: I 0 pm Saturday, October I0, 8: I 0 pm Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm 
Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 
Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed., Thurs. and Sun. performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 
~ ~ ---. ---~--------­
Viewpoint 
Monday, September 28, 1992 
The Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 

News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Questions still unanswered in sculpture controversy 
Dear Editor: 
I have a few complaints to address about the sculptures at Saint Mary's College. I do not want to beat this issue into the ground, but the controversy continues. 
I have heard, through the paper and mailings to students, about how the majority of the faculty feels, but what about how the students feel? 
We haven't heard any formal response from any of the class boards, nor has the faculty bothered to consult the resi­dents of LeMans Hall. 
We must look at this "art" from our windows, as we go to classes, and as we bring our parents to our rooms when they come to visit. I have nothing against the artist's right to make the art or display it, but do I have to look at it? No! 
But by positioning the sculptures on the LeMans Hall lawn, I am left with no choice but to see them. Some people may like them, which is fine for them, but I personally do not, and should not have to look at them. 
Also, the question still arises, "What were they?" In all of the literature I have read about the sculptures, no one has fully de­fined what they are or what 


DOONESBURY 
they represent. 

One problem I saw was that when the Art Department displayed these sculptures, they didn't inform the campus as to what they were, or where they came from, and therefore, the community was left in the dark and became upset and angry. 
A lot of this could have been avoided if several steps had taken place before they were displayed. Isn't college a place to educate? Well, why weren't we educated as to what they were? Isn't this a democratic society? 
Then, after the controversy arose, why weren't the residents of LeMans, or the whole community surveyed as to whether they thought the works should be displayed on the lawn? A small group should not always decide for everyone else, as the art council has done. 
Who would know what was best for the students other than the students themselves? I'll let you know my vote now: they're not appropriate in such a populated area. I don't like them. 
Sara Klabacha Lemans Hall Sept. 20, 1992 
MAYI se&YOUR. 
PRJV&R.'S t.IC&N5e,---... 
P/.CAS{3, 9/1<~ 

/AJ YOU HAVE ANY 
UM.., I/J&AHCWFI/5T 5UR&. YOU UI&R& GOIN~ IAJHY 5/R."! \ NOTr 
\ 
page 9 


Guard's judgement was 'poor' 
Dear Editor: Dame fans, whose insolence or 
Lest the reader think our re-physical stature prevents them ply to "Ex-guardsman relates from partaking in "a fraternity his side of controversy" (The filled with love and Observer, Sept. 24) is a con-brotherhood." demnation of the Irish Guard, We do not object to this let us qualify our forthcoming fraternity, which provides such remarks. a loving support system, in 
We too have been enamored which the brothers can revel in with the Irish football tradition, their own glory and practice and more specifically the Irish that "age-old" tradition of self­Guard, for many years. The aggrandizement; but it is dis­Guard is indeed a unique and concerting to learn that these honorable tradition, which has brothers are sipping "from a been the hallmark of the Notre traditional drink," while on "the Dame Marching Band. job of being a Guardsman." 
A football Saturday is not Surely, those Notre Dame complete without the high-doctors of which Maier speaks stepping march of the Irish do not sip the nectar of Guard, leading the band in tradition while performing support of the Fighting Irish. brain surgery. And if they are 
We are, however, greatly dis-the type to imbibe on the job, turbed by the Guard's recent they would probably actions, which have led to its recommend massive Coke disbandment. ingestion for patients suffering 
Maier's pride in the from the flu, heat exhaustion, brotherhood of the Irish Guard and nerves-God only knows the is surely not unfounded, for he medicinal value of Coke in such and his so-called brothers desperate situations. represent thousands of Notre Mr. Maier contends, "I am no longer upset about Student Af­fairs' poor, unjudicial, and un­American handling of the Irish Guard's situation." He is obvi­ously rather bitter, and his at­tack on the administration, which he putatively represented as a Guardsman, is a reflection of his own folly. 
How can Maier label his dis­missal as un-American? After all, we are reasonably certain that every member of Student Affairs is a citizen of the United States. 
Perhaps he is referring to the democratic and impartial nature of American justice, which punishes the guilty and upholds the rights of the inno­cent. 
Clearly, the Guard is culpable, and the only thing that is "poor and unjudicial..." is the judge­ment of the brotherhood. 
David Lyon Richard Castellini Zahm Hall Sept. 26, 1992 

Our Mother's gift of life cannot be put away 
Dear Editor: sus Christ. Our Lady of 
I wish to relay to the students, Guadalupe, who told the vision­faculty, priests and religious of ary Blessed Juan Diego in the the Notre Dame and St. Mary's year 1531 to "know for certain communities a disturbing that I am the perfect and per­incident which occurred during petual Virgin Mary, Mother of Bill Clinton's recent campus the True God through whom visit. everything lives," is with child! 
Knowing Clinton's contempt for the sanctity of life of the un­Is it not tragic that at this uni­born child, a position in direct versity named in Her honor, I opposition to Catholic Church was told by Clinton aides that I teaching, I held up a small im­"must put it away," referring to age of Our Lady of Guadalupe, the small image I was holding Patroness of the Unborn, during up? The nerve of one on a his talk. campaign for death to tell me to 
This miraculous image given put away the Mother of God. to us from Heaven is also an image of the unborn Savior Je-Men and women of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, abortion is the modern-day slaughter of the Holy Innocents. 
Just as Clinton's aides cared nothing for the Mother and Her Son, Bill Clinton cares nothing for today's mothers and their unborn children. Do we really want this man as the next Pres­ident of the United States? 
Our Lady of Guadalupe and Our Lady of the Golden Dome, pray for us. 
Bill Keen Carroll Hall Sept. 26, 1992 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Spend the afternoon. You can't take it with you.' 
Annie Dillard 

Turn thought to expression, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND. IN 46556 


~·----~----------------------------------------------------------~------.---------~----~ 
Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, September 28, 1992 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Shame on Clinton for 'manipulating' Catholicism 
Dear Editor: God's image in every man and some encouraging things about friend of mine. And Mr. Clinton, ing, he said, was the church's 
Two weeks ago, Democratic woman. And so we must value how he would assist those most that's not Catholic social effort to take the gospel mes­presidential candidate Bill Clin­their freedom, not just their in need in our society. teaching." sage and "apply it to new situa­ton delivered a speech to stu­political freedom, but their That's a theme both But nothing was said because, tions and new problems." dents and faculty at the Univer­freedom of conscience-in mat­candidates need to speak more sadly, 101 years of modern In this problem-rich election sity of Notre Dame. ters of philosophy and family about, especially in these hard Catholic social teaching have year, Catholics would likely 
and faith." Again, more economic times where passed mostly unnoticed by the benefit by reading Catholic so­
-In it, he praised his brief cheering. programs for the poor and majority of "good Catholics." cial teaching, or at least hear­Catholic schooling and quoted Not once in his speech did underprivileged are being cut in (Does anyone even remember ing it from the pulpit. liberally-in more than one Clinton mention the "A word." the name of "personal the name of the social Unfortunately, we seem to be sense of the term-from Catholic He didn't have to. Clinton clev­responsibility." encyclical released by Pope content to accept a distorted social teaching. erly-if not shamelessly-em­However, when Clinton tried John Paul II a year ago May version from someone who has 
The crowd of mostly Univer­ployed the church's social to legitimize the pro-choice 1st?) a preferential option for the sity students cheered lustily as teaching to defend the radical viewpoint through references to In a nationwide teleconfer­ballot box and not for the poor, Clinton talked about how his pro-choice stance of his party. Catholic social teaching, ence last year, Archbishop the poorest of whom are the Georgetown education caused But what's worse, nobody in someone should have been Rembert Weakland called unborn. him to be "deeply drawn to the the rah-rah Notre Dame crowd there to say, "Wait a minute. I Catholic social teaching an Shame on Bill Clinton for Catholic social mission." seemed to notice-or to care! know Catholic social teaching. "essential part of preaching the manipulating Catholic social 
He drew even more applause To be fair, Clinton did say Catholic social teaching is a Gospel." Catholic social teach-teaching to serve his own ends. 
'Prohibitive' du Lac may Clinton's past insults war veterans 
Dear Editor: patriot, and Clinton's were Good leaders would not order
be erasing NO's character 
This is in response to Brian those of a coward. Clinton was subordinates to face dangers Posnanski's letter (The Ob­asked to serve his country, but they themselves would be Dear Editor: But the current attitude in the server. Sept. 14) concerning he put his own interests first. unwilling to confront. In thisHaving witnessed three years . administration seems to be one whether or not Governor Clin­If Clinton has no prior mili­regard, Clinton would be an of activities, social functions of trying to distill out the ton's draft record is relevant to tary experience and is guilty of unfit Commander-in Chief. 
and traditions at Notre Dame, alcohol by eliminating the the Presidential election. draft-dodging, then how can he The election of Bill Clinton to 
the headlines and articles on functions and traditions 
I disagree with Mr. relate to the forty million Amer­the Presidency would be athe front page of yesterday's themselves. (as Patricia O'Hara Posnanski's position, and argue icans alive today who have disaster for the U.S. Armed Observer came as a great was quoted in The Observer. 
that this debate reflects on worn the uniform of the U.S. Forces. Not only would he be 
shock. Sept. 23, the University is 
Clinton's character and on his Armed Forces at some time in an insult to the living and dead
But perhaps more shocking reportedly "calling into 
qualifications to be their lives? veterans of the Vietnam War,than the specter of losing the question the very existence of Commander-in -Chief. How can he morally justify but also to the countless Irish Guard was the implied the (Irish) Guard.") 
Although it can be argued ordering young men and millions of other Americans 
message that the ad­This attitude is self-defeatist that World War II was a justifi­women to die for their country who served their country in ministration sees fit to abolish and unjustifiable. Reducing the able cause and Vietnam was when he himself was unwilling wars past.
such a long-standing part of number of supported social 
not, that does not matter. The to make that same sacrifice? He would be unworthy of Notre Dame tradition, not to functions and activities will only fact is that when George Bush Constitutional responsibilities walking in Arlington National mention an essential feature of compound the reliance of an in­was eighteen and was asked to aside, why should the men and Cemetery and of reading over the country's oldest University creasingly bored student body fight for his country, he put women of the armed forces risk 58,000 names on Vietnam marching band, to make a point on alcohol. 
service above self and risked their lives obeying the orders of Veterans' Memorial. Clinton's about the disciplinary policy. The prevailing question, then, his life as a naval aviator. a Commander-in-Chief who election would be an endorse­
We feel that the imple­seems to be whether it is 
When Clinton was in college displayed cowardice by dodging ment of cowardice in the face of mentation of an effective alco­acceptable for the current and the same request was the Vietnam War draft? danger and would make a 
hol policy should not have to administration to weigh 
made of him, he ran off to The draft issue is relevant be­mockery out of the blood that come at the expense of Notre sanctions against the entire 
England, smoked pot ("but cause it reflects that Clinton has been shed in the name of 
Dame's unique collegiate char­University, past and present, for didn't inhale"), and enjoyed the was a coward in the face of American freedom. 
acter. the alleged actions of at most 
blessings of youth, while danger. It also demonstrates 
The current problem being ten individuals. 
500,000 of his underprivileged that he is morally unqualified to Andrew DeKever addressed by the University The unfortunate result felt by 
peers endured the hell of Viet­order men and women into St. Edward's Hall 
administration seems to be that the average student here at the nam. battle because he was unwilling Sept. 18, 1992 of the inappropriate infiltration University of Notre Dame du Bush's actions were those of a to take that same risk.
of alcohol into the University Lac is that we're seeing less functions. and less of the character of 
Cries for pro-life fell on deaf ears
The administration is justified Notre Dame, and more and in its pursuit to alleviate the more of the prohibitive force of Dear Editor: and have claimed that the tele­paradigm as they have the pro­
preponderance of alcohol in duLac. 
"Congress shall make no law vision screens of America would lifers'?
student social activities, and to Marcus Adrian respecting an establishment of reflect poorly on those How then can they justify
eliminate behavior that is Jeffrey Mazurek 
religion, or prohibiting the free individuals involved and on the supporting a man who has useddisgraceful to the University's Architecture Students exercise thereof; or abridging Notre Dame community. narcotics, avoided serving his150 years of tradition. Sept. 26, 1992 
the freedom of speech, or of the This has not happened in the country, and publicly stated that press; or the right of the people least. In Milwaukee, Chicago, he would ratify radical p~aceably to assemble, and to and Boston for example, legislation which would require petition the Government for a networks merely broadcasted even Catholic hospitals to redress of grievances." that "Clinton faced opposition perform convenience abortions 
If Democrats have the right to as he stopped at the University on demand for any female, launch obscenities and broccoli of Notre Dame." regardless of her age or of the projectiles at our President with This statement of fact is consent of her parents or impunity as he tours Wisconsin, actually a tribute to the spouse? {Freedom of 'Choice' and Notre Dame student University. For it shows that Act 1992-93). security can tell their fellow Notre Dame students had the In closing, pro-lifers sent up a classmates to "shut up" why courage and morals to stand up cry for help for the preborn on can't true Roman Catholics to injustice in the face of adver­Friday afternoon, a cry which (loudly but peacefully) demon­sity. fell on deaf ears. For their 
strate their first amendment If people will turn away from actions, pro-lifers were branded rights at a Catholic university, a commitment to life because of immature extremists. by asking for the redress of 27 a thirty minute experience on a Yet, as Barry Goldwater's 
million dead children? Friday afternoon, they ob­Sept. 16 "Quote of the Day" so 
Beckie Brothers and Daniel 0. viously have not deeply con­aptly put it, "Extremism, in the Myers. with their emotional templated the issue at hand. defense of liberty, is no vice. tirades (The Observer, Sept. 16), If they will turn their backs on And moderation, in the pursuit have tarred and feathered pro­the murder of babies because of justice. is no virtue." lifers lately, calling them they disapprove of "the actions "intolerant, immature, unpro-of a few," aren't they obligated Rob Schlosser 
to scrutinize the actions of Bill Cavanaugh Hall ~~~~~~~~a~-~errl fessional, rude, offensive, em-Sept. 16, 1992 
barrassing, and disgusting," Clinton under the same
~
il!...::~IIL-~ 

when he evoked the memory of Catholic icon John F. Kennedy, recalling the late president's words, "Here on earth God's work must truly be our own." 
Echoing a basic tent of Catholic social teaching, Clinton said, "Our individual rights flow from our essential dignity as a creation of God. But each of us reaches our fullness as a hu­man being by being of service to our fellow men and women." 
Later he added that "all of us must respect the reflection of 
But shame on us, too. for 
standing by and cheering him 
as he did it. 
Editor's Note: Catholic social encyclicals and documents are available from the United States Catholic Conference, 3211 Fourth Street NE.. Washington, D.C., 20017-1194 or call (202)541-3090. 

Tod Tamberg Editor of "The Tidings" Los Angeles, CA £ Sept. 22, 1992 
L-~================~~------------------------~~------~ 
Accent 
Monday, September 28, 1992 page 11 
Cassino's serves up New York-style 
pizza to South Bend 
By EMILY HAGE comfortable atmosphere. Deco­Accent Writer rated with a wooden ceiling, warm lighting, and a Mexican­
For genuine New York style style tile floor. It is a pleasant pizza, go to Cassino's Pizza of place to eat and even catch the New York on the corner of Jef­baseball game on television. ferson and Main streets in Mishawaka. After opening on June 1, busi­
A family-owned business, not ness has been steady at a franchise, Cassino's offers a Cassino's and Pappas attributes homey atmosphere and home­their success to the fact that made pizza. Their specialty is a they offer the New York pizza, unique thin crust pizza of New which is hard to find in this York. "We make them the real area. "We fill a niche that's way,"said owner Lou Pappas. kind of unique, said Pappas. 
The menu also includes cal­They have received flowers zones, subs, stromboli, meat and letters of gratitude from breads, soups, salads, and a customers, one of whom said wide range of appetizers, that her 14-year quest for real including breadsticks. They also New York pizza in the area was offer three to six-foot party over. By offering carry-out subs, and ask that customers pizza and pizza by the slice, call 24 hours ahead. Cassino's models the pizza 
Prices suit the college student joints that are "a way of life" in budget. Pizzas range from New York, said Pappas. $7.45 for a medium thin crust They are applying for a beer 
pizza to $15.75 for "The license and should be serving it Works," thick crust Sicilian by the end of October, and they pizza, and the rest of the menu are also considering delivering is also inexpensive for the size pizzas. and quality of the portions they serve. "If you're used to They are opened seven days a Eastern-stlye pizza, it's nice to week, Monday through Thurs­find a place like home," said day from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m., Pappas. Friday and Saturday 11 a.m. to 
Customers certainly feel com­11 p.m., and Sunday from 4 to fortable in Cassino's clean, 9p.m. 
Wash and play 
W.G. is Inuch Inore than just a laundroinat 
BY JOHN FISCHER both students and residents Accent Writer ever since. Starting with a two­week free wash promotion 
In the largely separate town upon opening, W. G. has had a and school communities that steady stream of customers are South Bend and Notre ever since, if the business on a Dame, there is at least one Sunday afternoon in late place where both residents and September is any indication. students can be found shooting pool or playing darts in DeLeon has begun noticing between the wash and spin several regulars at W. G., and cycles. word-of-mouth has increased 
The W. G. (World's Greatest) the number of customers since Laundromat, at 1813 South opening. With $1.25 washes Bend Avenue, (in the Campus and $.25 dryers, rates are Shoppes strip center right competitive with on-campus across from Domino's Pizza) is laundry facilities. Besides all the first of its kind in the the distractions, W. G. is a full­Michiana area, according to service laundromat., complete Patty DeLeon, an attendant at with a drop-off service and dry the laundromat. cleaning. 
Whereas a magazine rack is Among most patrons, how­the extent of the diversions of­ever, the extras are the reason fered at most laundromats, one for going. does not even realize that one is Michael Batz, an off-campus in a laundromat at W. G. until senior, is a regular at W. G. He the washers and dryers become says that W. G. "is catering to visible beyond the pool tables students who want more than and row of video games. just a laundry experience." On 
Indeed, if the word laundro­this Sunday. Batz was glad to be mat did not appear in the name able to do laundry and not have of the establishment, a person to miss any NFL action, thanks could conceivably mistake it for to the big-screen TV. a game room in a bar. Besides Like a growing number of stu­the pool tables and video dents, Batz and his house­games, there are dartboards, mates patronize W. G. four televisions including a big­frequently. "Our landlord screen, and a snack bar promised us a washer and complete with breakfast rolls in dryer, but he hasn't delivered the morning, popcorn and chips yet, so we all come over here to all day, as well as a beverage do our laundry. It's a really cool selection ranging from Clearly place," he says. Canadian bottled water to For those who for whatever Sharp's non-alcoholic brew. reason must go outside the 
According to DeLeon, W. G. household to get their boxers has been open since mid­and socks clean, W. G. is in­August of this year, and has creasingly becoming the laun­enjoyed a brisk business from dromat of choice. 


page 12 The Observer Monday, September 28, 1992 
Hall's scoring catch leads Tampa Bay past hapless Detriot, 27-23 
Tampa Bay couldn't win on the road, and Detroit couldn't lose at home. Until Sunday. 
The Buccaneers came out on top of a wild, 24-point fourth quarter when Vinny Tes-
NFC CENTRAL taverde's 
14-yard
-:-to_u_c-.h:-d'o_w_n_p_a_s_s-to Ron Hall with 49 seconds left gave Tampa Bay a 27-23 victory. It was the first loss at the Sil­verdome for Detroit in 12 games and ended a 15-game 

road losing streak for Tampa Bay (3-1). 
Mel Gray scored on an 89­yard kickoff return, Detroit's first since 1982, but Testaverde completed five of six passes for 52 yards in the winning drive, an 80-yarder that ended when Hall found himself wide open in the left flat. 
Bears 41, Falcons 31 Jim Harbaugh passed for two touchdowns, and Neal Ander­
son ran for two more as Chicago snapped a two-game losing streak and even managed to score in the seconds half. 
Chicago led 31-7 at halftime, then held on. Outscored 41-0 in the second half of their last two games, they were outscored 24­10 in this one, but the Bears mounted a clinching, 80-yard drive with Brad Muster going the final 14 yards for a 38-21 lead. 
Packers 17, Steelers 3 
In his first NFL start, Brett Favre threw two touchdown passes after Pittsburgh mis­takes, and Green Bay (2-2) handed Pittsburgh (3-1) its first loss. Gary Anderson's field goal early in the first quarter gave Pittsburgh a 3-0 lead, and the Steelers couldn't score again. 
Favre, meanwhile, capitalized on a blocked field goal attempt for a 76-yard scoring pass to Sterling Sharpe in the second quarter, then hit Robert Brooks with an 8-yarder in the fourth quarter after a muffed Pitts­burgh punt. 
Vikings 42, Bengals 7 
Rich Gannon ignored the pain from a chipped bone in his right hand and threw for a career­high 318 yards and four touchdown passes for the Vikings (3-1). He passed for 212 yards in a 28-point first half. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  $$$ NEED MONEY? $$$ Now hiring 10 drivers and 5 inside­help. Make $8-12/hour delivering  TICKETS  Need Penn St. Tix Tony x 1786  WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE TIX FOR 2 BYU TIX. (904)274-3281­LEAVE MESSAGE.  •••••• Campus Musicians •••••••• There will be an informational meeting for all those interested in  
for DOMINO'S PIZZA. Pt. time and  WILL TRADE 2, 40 YARD  I need Stan. GA's  performing on a campus CD on  
ATTENTION:  Full time available.  Employee  STANFORD GA'S + CASH  Bob 3398  Have 2 BYU  tix, need 2 BC tix. Will  Thursday, October 1st at 9:00pm in  
For more information and  discounts on pizzas.  Business is  FOR 2 PENN STATE GA'S  swap. Call (201) 487-9000.  the SUB office in Lafortune  
assistance regarding the  booming.  Call Brian at 271-0300 to  JASON X1746  I NEED 1 STANFORD TICKET-GA  Questions?-Call Ryan at x1249 or  
investigation of financing, business  set up an interview.  OR STU. CALL GEORGE 4121.  Need 4 PITT tix!!!  239-7757  
opportunities and work-at-home  NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX  Call Pete ( 1-800-322-0228}  
opportunities. THE OBSERVER  EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  CALL JOE OR JAY X1760  Need GAs Any Home Games  HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY  
urges its readers to contact the  circulars! ... Begin NOW' ... FREE  Megan 3818  I've got GAs to all games-cheap!  WIDOEN'!!!!!II'  
Better Business Bureau of  packet' SEYS, Dept. 100, Box  I NEED NO FOOTBALL  Bert@ 1248.  Luv, your two favorite elders!  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  4000, Cordova. TN 38018-4000.  TICKETS.272-6306  I have a Stanford GA and need a  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ Penn State GA-want to trade? Call  MARGE  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ Attention! Earn $2500' Students.  WANTED:  Jahnelle at 283-2998  I need 2 STANFORD GAs  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring  STANFORD GA'S &/OR STUD'S  If you can help, call Chris at X2033  SPRING BREAK '93-SELL TRIPS,  
Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips  WILL PAY$$$ !  NEED STANFORD GA'S. CALL  EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!  
TYPING  At Your School! SpringBreak 1-800­ PLEASE CALL TODAY!  SANDY 272-6194. THANK YOU  Student Travel Services is now  
287-4082  678-6386.  DANIELA  284-4346 OR  i need 2 penn state GA's  hiring campus representatives. Ski  
BOB 283-1 090  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  call lisa  X 4845 leave a message  packages also available. CALL  
•••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE ••••  Spring Break '93  THANKS!  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT  1-800-648-4849.  
Entertainment for the 90's!!!!  Panama City Beach, Florida  618-439-3338.  I need P.S.U. tix  
Find out what you're missing at:  Sales Representative needed to  Bob 3398  Physician and Attorney wish to  
COLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics. Toys  work with #1 Spring Break Team  STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE  HELP!! I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov.  provide loving home for your child  
& Games) 4609 Grape Rd.  TRAVEL ASSOCIATES AND TOUR  7 BC game. Please call x3799.  I need two PENN STATE tickets.  filled with hugs, kisses. laughter.  
JMS Plaza. Behind Hardee's  EXCEL. Sell the BEST properties on  CALL 283-1747  Thanks.  Either G I A or student. Please  Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy  
M-F 11 to 7, Sat tO to 6  the beach  call Trish at 271-9059!!!  Collect (708) 655-3124.  
SUMMIT CONDOMINIUMS  NEED PENN STATE TICKETS. WILL  
MIRACLE BEACH RESORT  I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs  PAY $40 EACH. CALL COLLECT  Yo! I NeeD 10 PeNN St GAs Badly  Fay.  
IRISH  ACCENT  HOLIDAY INN  YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE  614 -354-5716  Please CaLL: PAT x2071  
COMEDY/IMPROV TROUPE  PIER 99  GAs  COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS?  
TRYOUTS  Earn top commission and free trips For more information call: Julie  WANNA TRADE? Call Bret (me) at 1248. I love you.  HELP!!! NEED 2-4 PENN ST GA'S OR  PERSONAL  Volunteer for RECYCLIN' IRISH Collection Crews  
7:00P.M.  MONDAY,  SEPT 28  1-800-558-3002  STUD. TIX.  CALL ALAN  x1597  
WALSH HALL  NEED 3 STAN GA'S-WILL PAY  HELP THE ENVIRONMENT.  
WANTED: Child care worker for  BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$  Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame  Hey Niff  HELP YOURSELF'  
in-home care of 2 five year-olds.  1-415-991-3416 call collect  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  Fridays, 9AM-2. 287-5117.  Need Stan. GA's  AMANDA  KAY  EASY' FUN'  
BUY 'EM NOW  10-5:30 everyday  Bob 3398  NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S.  have a wonderful day  CALL Becky at #4836 for info.  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  EASY, FUN PHONE WORK.  Morrissey Hall & Law School  COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS?  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342  EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988.  I NEED 4 STUD. OR GA'S FOR  Alumnist. Please help. Call David at  JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING''!  
STANFORD. PLEASE CALL MARY  816-931-1267.  GET THE T-SHIRT!!!  WANTED: COUNSELINE volunteers  
TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA,  FOR RENT  AT 3427.  Need 1 Stant. GA  OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES  needed for Monday-Thursday evening shifts. Call 239-7336 for  
CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST  SELLING 1BYU AND NEED 1  pay top$$  additional information.  
COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO  Near N.D. cozy furnished apts.  BC TICKET. CALL NATASHA  call Scott x4243  MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR  
FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN SPLASH  studio-$220  1257  FREE HAIRCUTS CALL COSIMO'S  KATIE YOU'RE SUCH A DORK!!!!  
TOURS 1-800-426-7710  I bedroom-$255  Need 1 BOSTON or 1 PENN STATE  277-1875.  LOVE YA!  ANNE  
2bedroom-$280  I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S  St. Tix. Call JIM X1565  
Typing 237-1949  Deposit, 1-800-582-9320  WILL PAY,  MIKE  x2209  SMC & NO 1993 SUMMER  We caught  
Spee-Oee Word processing .....-----------, BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ILOST & FOUND I .....21_9-2-91--7-15-3-----, FOUND Watch 9/21 by lakes I FOR SALE  Need 2 GA's for STANFORD have 2 BYU G,ll;s to trade or will pay $$ Amy X2609 Have Purdue & BC Stud. Tix  I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket for the Stanford game. If you can help, please call Suzy at x3722. Need 10 plus BYU GA's Call #1852  PROGRAMS-London and Rome. Travel in Ire., Scot., Eng., France, Ger., Switz .. & Italy. Courses in Bus., Ed., Hist., Italian, Mus.. Nursing, and Soc. Meeting Oct. 5, 6:30 PM Carroll Hall (SMC). Slides.  Chris Parent yanking himself in the Lacrosse showers HOW GOOD IS YOUR COLLEGE HEALTH SERVICE? A national  
x4991  - Will sell or trade for Penn St. &  students from 1992, teachers.  magazine is investigating the  
CHEAP' FBI/U.S. SEIZED  Stanford Tix plus $  Need 4 BC Ga's  pizza. etc. Info Call Prof. Black 284­ quality of college health clinics. and  
LOST CALCULATOR  89 MERCEDES ......... $200  Eric x1200  Have Purd, byu stud tx  4460 or 272-3726.  would like to hear female students'  
Casio fx7000 (graphic display and other stuff). Badly needed. $$$ and no questions asked. Please call Jose @ x2070  86 VW... .. ........... $ 50 87 MERCEDES.. . .. $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting  $ RICH family needs 6 GAs $ $ for Stanford game $ $Call Pat@ 1900$  and free kitten. Brian 273-1962 I NEED 1 STANFORD GA  ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and  stories. All names will be kept confidential. Please send a short account of your experience along with your phone number to:  
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour  CALL ART x1153  wonderful future for your baby.  Box 125, 1275 First Ave. New York,  
Lost!!  My parents gave me a  Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright  Please let us help you in this  New York 10021.  
beautiful gold watch for Christmas and I LOST IT!!! Most likely on North or Mod Quad. maybe in Math & Comp. building. If found, call Amy at x4530 or x4525.  #IN11KJC. Sweatshirts For Sale!!' Handmade Christmas. NO, & Irish Sweatshirts and T-shirts for sale. For more information or to see samples call  Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE need of Penn Stale GA's ... Call Ann 284-5241  Need 2 Penn State GA's Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I DESPERATELY NEED GA & STUD STANFORD TIXI!  difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763  Attention Scientists and Engineers! The newly formed SHPE/MAES. !hats the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers I Mexican American Engineers and Scientists.  
LOST 35mm Pentax camera  Kim 273-2967  TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC  ERIN  #2638  Attractive and physically well­ is having its first meeting Sept 28.  
with black carrying case film is very important if found call x3385  CHEAP FLIGHT NY (LGA} to SB OCT 23  GA'S (715-359-0222) need stanford stud lix or purdue  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call  endowed Notre Dame student with good personality needs a date for Oct.10 SYR.  Monday at 7:30 at 356 Fitzpatrick. This new club has loads to offer and is Super for networking in the  
Call Brian 273-0967  ga's-call mike 1594  1-800-922-BEAR.  I will provide transportation,  professional and corporate world.  
Lost: Large. red and while umbrella with red maple leaves on it (like a Canadian flag). If found,  '86 Cavalier RS. 2 door, black Excellent transportation  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College  $NEED 2 STANFORD$ $GAs x3593$  beverages. and hours of fun whoever answers this ad. This is not a joke. I really need a  Come by and see what we are offering to give you! We are inviting EVERYONE!  
please call Chris at X2033.  $1,800 or best offer Please call 284-5376 before 5pm  GAs or student tix. Call Jill@ x4758 or x4721.  I desperately need STANFORD TIX!  date. You can call me AI..  SENIORS: DON'T MISS OUT II  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Monique x4042  at 283-2703.  Deadline lor Senior Rap-Up is this  
Found: Pair of round eyeglasses  BICYCLE FOR SALE  Friday. Sign up now at the CSC.  
in a gray case.  Found in front of  Black Trek 800  18"  NEED Stanford Tix. Call Matt x1741  
the Snite. Call Jim x3411  Good Condition-2 yrs. old.  (  (  (  (}  SMCSENIORS  HEY Chrissy K ...  
$200. Call 232-2944 & ask for  NEED  BYU  This could be your last chance ...  GONE FISH IN'?  
Geoff.  NEED  BYU  THE CRUSH  ask me in two weeks!  
WANTED  LOFT • LOFT • LOFT  My parents. grandparents and aunt & uncle are coming so I need  I NEED 1 BC GA.  anonymous invitations are sent to as many men as you would like.  Hi middleleftup  
Selling Cheap!  tickets for all of them. I am not  DAVE, x4506  DROP DEAD, NIFF!  
x4843  picky about the GAs I need.  Beer and food provided for the  
BONNIE DOON  Please help out my family so that  casual gathering!  "BOM BOM..  
HAS POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR  IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE:  they can see a game before I  doodilydoodilydoodilydoodily  
SERVERS, COOKS AND FOUNTAIN  $2 EACH.  graduate this year.  Oct. 2, 1992 5-10pm  BEWARE!! It's lunchtime-the  
Apply in person to:  WANTED: COMPUTERS.  Joe Gallatin  x1161  WILLING TO TRADE:  King's Hall/ Castle Point  TITILLATOR could be at your side!!  
52446 Dixie Way No., South Bend 4615 Grape Rd., Mishawaka  1530 WESTERN AVE, SB. 287-7550.  Thank You ( ( (  Thank You (} )  2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. CALL KATY AT 273-2989!  Tickets on sale at Haggar through Wed. Sept. 30th (11-1pm).  Girl on crack needs formal date How about it Justin?  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­ For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  Need GA tix for BYU will-buy or  MUST BE 21!  
fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board!  Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524  trade for my GA PENN ST tix. Butch (209) 449-1800/439-6170.  I need 2-3 GA's for the Stanford game. Will pay lots of cash.  Happy B-Day SCOTTIE-DOG!  Need 2 STANFORD I Need 2 STANFORD  
Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545-4155 ext. A5584.  Lrg 2& 1 br apt avail in Victorian home. Hrdwd lis, yard, bus line, sunny. Prtly furnished. Great deal.  I have 2 BYU GA's!!! I am looking to trade these for 2 Stan. G,ll;s or 2 Penn St. GA's  Angel x2545 NEED REASONABLY PRICED G.A.S: 2 STANFORD AND 2 BC. CALL JUDY 239-6_515. SORRY, I'M  Love, Lucy 5 VERY LARGE MEN will hurt me if I don't have GAs for them when they come for the BC game. Please  My sisters are coming out and they are too old for stu's. Please help me out with your tickets so that my sisters can a NO game  
Call 287-8264 eves.  Joe x1395  POOR.  help.  Jenn x4059.  Tim 239-8317  Thank You  

Monday, September 28, 1992 The Observer page 13 
Close shave costs Miami top ranking 

Miami as the No. 1 team in college football Sunday following the Hurricanes' unimpressive 8-7 win over Arizona. 
The Huskies had the weekend off. but were boosted to the top spot in The Associated Press poll when the Hurricanes barely survived against 27­point underdog Arizona, which just missed a 51-yard field goal attempt on the final play of the game.Washington (3-0), which shared the national title with Miami last season, received 44 first-place votes and 1,525 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broad­casters. Miami (3-0) was sec­ond with 12 first-place votes and 1 ,471 points. 
It was a dramatic reversal from the previous week, when Miami received 43 first-place votes and Washington 15. 
''I'm surprised," Washington coach Don James said. "It wasn't as a result of anything we did; it's because of some­thing Arizona and Miami did. I know it will motivate two groups of people. I know it will motivate our opponents, and I hope it will motivate our team. 
"It's hard to respond with anything colorful because it doesn't mean anything until the end of the year. We still have to go out and beat USC this week." 
Miami coach Dennis Erickson wasn't surprised that the Hur­ricanes fell to No. 2. 
"That's probably how I would have voted, too," he said. "We should have dropped in the polls playing a game like that." 
Things don't get any easier 

vs 
AP poll since 1984, when the Huskies held the top spot for four weeks before losing to Southern Cal. Washington fin­ished first in last year's USA Today-CNN coaches' poll, but Miami won the AP champi­onship. 
Florida State ( 4-0) received four first-place votes and 1,431 points in this week's poll after beating Wake Forest 35-7. 
Michigan (2-0-1) remained No. 4 after routing Houston 61­7, idle Texas A&M (4-0) stayed No. 5, and Notre Dame (3-0-1) remained No. 6 after blanking Purdue 48-0. 
Tennessee (4-0) moved up one spot to No. 7 after clobber­ing Cincinnati 40-0, and Penn State (4-0) climbed one notch to No. 8 with a 49-13 rout of Maryland. 
Alabama (4-0) dropped two spots to No. 9 after struggling to beat Louisiana Tech 13-0, and Colorado (4-0) stayed No. 10 after beating Iowa 28-12. 
Texas A&M and Alabama each received one first-place vote. 
UCLA is 11th, followed by Ohio State, Florida, Virginia, Nebraska, Georgia, Syracuse, Stanford, Oklahoma, Southern Cal, North Carolina State, Boston College, Georgia Tech, Mississippi State and Clemson. 
Georgia Tech (2-1), which dropped out of the poll after losing to Virginia last week, moved back into the Top 25 after beating Clemson 20-16 Saturday. The loss dropped Clemson (1-2) nine spots to No. 25. 

Moderator Questioners 
WNDU Television's Mike Collins 
Professor Patricia O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs 
Professor Tim Scully, C.S.C. Government Department 
Professor Walter Nicgorski Program of Liberal Studies 
Governor Bill Clinton President George Bush 
Bill Dailey Junior Philosophy Major 
Pat McCarthy Senior History Major 
Wednesday, September 30 7 pm, Lafortune Ballroom (Theodore's) 



page 14 The Observer Monday, September 28, 1992 
The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 

Rick Mirer running the option just before pitching to Reggie Brooks for a 63-yard touchdown. 



The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 
Demetrius DuBose led Notre Dame with seven tackles. 
Monday, September 28, 1992 The Observer 
inexperience has been the main Despite the disappointment of problem for the Irish early in Friday's loss the Irish remain
Hoosiers 
the season. confident about their chances to win the Midwestern Collegiatecontinued from page 20 Although their future is Conference title and earn the 
The loss drops Notre Dame to bright, they still have strides to NCAA tournament invitation 3-3-1 for the season, with all make if they hope to contend that goes along with it. 0 three losses at the hands of for an NCAA tournament berth teams in Soccer America's Top-this season. "It would have boosted our 
15. They dropped tough "First of all, we have to score confidence if we had beaten a matches to No. 4 UCLA and No. some goals," Tricoci said...'We UCLA or an Indiana," Tricoci 13 Duke before Friday's loss at also have to get better organi­added. "But we ·still believe Indiana. zation defensively, but we are that we are the best team in the 
With six sophomores and two starting to move the ball bet­conference and now we just freshmen in the starting lineup, ter." have to play that way." 

9:00  AM  International Paper  9:00  AM  McDonald's Corporation  
10:45 AM  Indiana-Michigan Power Company  10:45 ·AM  Wrap-up Panel  
2:00  PM  Texaco, Inc.  Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.  
Jack Lorenz  
3:45  PM  3M Company  lzaak Walton League Patrick Noonan  
7:30  PM  Stewart L. Udall  The Conservation Fund  
Secretary of the Interior for Eight Years-Author of The Quiet Crisis  Panelists:  Gene Buchholz, Kimberly Gray, Ronald Hellenthal, Conrad  
Kellenberg, Patrick Murphy,  
Kenneth Sayre, S. Prakash  
Sethi, Stephen Silliman,  
Todd Whitmore  

Sponsored by rhe Notrt Dame Ctnltr for Ethics and Religiow Valut'S in Bwine.u, Univer:sir, ofNorrt DOIM. ALL SESSIONS WILL BE HELD IN THE AUDITORIUM, CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION. OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
page 15 


The Observer/ Jake Peters An Irish player heads the ball in an early season exihibition with Indiana. 

Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
is accepting applications for its 1993 entering classes. Oanuary, May and September) 
General requirements at time ofentry include: 
I Approx.. 2-3 years of college in alife or health science degree program. I AG.P.A. of2.5 or above. I Apersonal interest in acareer as aprimary care physician. 
Northwestern offers: 
I Aprofessional school of 500 students with student faculty ratio of 12:1. I Aspacious 25 acre campus in suburban Minneapolis. I Full accreditation by North Central Association of Colleges and Schools 
and the Council on Chiropractic Education. 
CaD: 1-800-888-4777 or Write: Director ofAdmissions 2501 West Eighty-Fourth Street I Minneapolis, MN 55431-1599 
The Student Activities Office Presents: 
JIM WAND Master Hypnotist 
Wednesday, September 30th at 8:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium 
.­

Tickets--$3.00 on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk Starting Wednesday, Sept. 23rd! 

Grab your friends and discover what they really can do!! Act Like Gorillas, Sing Like Madonna .... 

Defense reverts back to days of old 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Associate Sports Editor 
For the past two years, Notre Dame's defense has been the recipient of criticism from Irish­watchers everywhere. Notre Dame's seemingly nonexistent pass rush and perennially inexperienced secondary made for high-scoring slugfests and long afternoons. 
Nothing seemed to have changed in 1992 until Purdue left South Bend on Saturday, victims of a 48-0 Irish stomp. 
The Boilermakers, averaging 35 points per game, came into Notre Dame Stadium Saturday morning with upset written all over their faces. Two weeks after dumping 17th-ranked Cal, Purdue knew it had the firepower to put scores of points on the board. 
The Boilermakers figured that the Notre Dame defense, ranked 96th among the 106 Division I-A teams, would be easy picking for their explosive attack. 
But the Boilermakers figured wrong. 
Notre Dame's defense, an­gered and inspired by its low statistical standing, played like 
Purdue 
continued from page 20 
possession to do so, as Brooks took a handoff on the first play and broke an 80-yard touchdown run to make it 42-0 and put him over the 200-yard mark. 
"Reggie did a tremendous job," Holtz said. "Jerome and Reggie are like thunder and lightning back there." 
Though Bettis was overshad­owed by Brooks' performance, the junior fullback does not mind sharing headlines with his backfield mate. 
"When it's Reggie call, my eyes light up as much as if it were my run," Bettis explained. "He's made it so teams no longer key on me up the middle." 
Kevin McDougal capped the Irish scoring when he took a quarterback draw 15 yards with 8:37 left in the game. 
The Notre D,ame defense dominated Purdue from the outset, as the Boilermakers did not get a first down until the 
9:06 remaining in the first half. 
Purdue's only two scoring threats where dashed by turnovers. John Covington picked off an Eric Hunter pass in the end zone and, Brian Hamilton recovered a fumble at the Irish one-yard line. 
"This game will go a long way toward helping our 
defense  believe  in  itself,"  
defensive  lineman  Bryant  
Young said.  

Notre Dame led 13-0 at half­time, as it scored on its first and last possessions of the half. Bettis took it in from five yards out to finish a nine-play, 76­yard drive to open the scoring, and Mirer kept the ball on the option and scored on a six-yard run 15 seconds before the in­termission. 
The domination of the Boil­ermakers left everyone in the Irish locker room happy, espe­cially Holtz. 
"This was as complete a game I have seen at Notre Dame in a while," Holtz said. "It was not just the way we played, but the intensity we played with. 
"We had a real difficult week (of practice), and the team re­sponded beautifully." 
Irish defensive units of yore on Saturday; holding Purdue to 13 first downs and zero points in one of the weekend's most thorough thrashings. 
"Defensively, I thought we played well," said Irish coach Lou Holtz. "We covered kicks well, we hit well, and we broke on the ball well." 
Holtz _approached his defense last week to discuss their low statistical standing, which left the Irish ten spots from the bottom of the Division I totem pole. 
"We made a few changes (last week)," he said. "We had a little meeting." 
That meeting inspired the Irish defense, and especially captain Demetrius DuBose, who was embarrassed by the team's statistical showing, to bring its game to a new level on Saturday. 
"Coach Holtz let us know how we were doing," said DuBose after Saturday's game. "He took us to the side and said 'Here's the situation.' We were 96th in the country, and that's now the way it is around here." 
The high standards set by past Irish defenses have been out of reach in recent years. But' the young Irish defense, which includes only 3 starting seniors. has grown consistently over the past year, and finally came into itC~wn during Saturday's shutout win. 
"Let's give credit to our de­fensive coaches and our defen­sive football team," said Holtz. "They've taken a lot of criti­cism." 
Much of that criticism was quieted on Saturday, when the Irish scored their first shutout since last year's 38-0 win over Navy (a team which has not yet scored in three games this sea­son). 
Purdue drove to the Notre Dame goal line in the fourth quarter, and seemed to score on a dive into the end zone. But the ball was spotted on the one, and a Matt Pike fumble gave the Irish the ball, preserving fhe shutout. DuBose could be seen leaping for joy after the Irish gained possession. 
"When you play any team, your ultimate goal is going to be a shutout," DuBose said. "I think if they had scored, we would have been disappointed like it was a loss." 

TEACH FOR AMERICA 
makes it possible to teach in an urban or rural public school without being an education major! 
Teach For America is a national teacher corps of talented, dedicated individuals from all academic majors and ethnic backgrounds who commit two years to teach in under-(esourced urban and rural public schools. 
Salaries range from $15,000 -$27,000 and partial cancellation (Perkins/NDSL) or deferment (Stafford/GSL) of loans is possible. 
-----~-------~--. 
Monday, September 28, 1992 

Game notes .•• 
By MIKE SCRUDATO & ROLANDO DE AGUIAR Sports Writers 
Reggie Brooks' 205 yards rushing made him only the sixth Irish back to top the 200-yard plateau. The last to do it was Allen Pinkett, who had 217 yards on 36 carries against Penn State in 1983. 
Notre Dame's 458 yards rushing was the most by an Irish team since 1974, when Army surrendered 545 in Notre Dame's 48-0 win. 
Kicker Craig Hentrich's streak of 130 consecutive PATs was snapped yesterday after Mirer's touchdown. The last time he missed was against Purdue in 1989. Hentrich was 27 short of Carlos Huerta's NCAA record of 157. 
Notre Dame's last shutout was November 2, 1991,_ when the Irish whitewashed Navy, 38-0. In three games, Navy has not scored this season. 
Bryant Young, who went down in the second half with a minor ankle injury, was able to return on Notre Dame's next defensive series. But when coach Lou Holtz first saw that his star defensive tackle had gone down, he seemed anxious. 
"I started to run out there, because I thought it might have been a knee. And I was worried, because he's a pretty good player," Holtz said of the junior, whom he has called "one of the best football players in the country." . 
Some worried that Young's injury was a leg fracture like the one he suffered against Air Force last season. But Holtz offered a cryptic insight into last year's injury. 
"I don't know what he broke last year. All I know is that if he was a horse, I would have shot him," Holtz said. 
iEACH FOR AMERICA 
Information Session Notre Dame 
September 29, 1992 at 8:00p.m. 114 o·shag 
For more information contact your career center or call 1-800-832-1230 
Monday, September 28, 1992 
Final home appearance a successful one for Carter 
MONTREAL (AP) -Gary Carter went out a hero in his final home game with the Montreal Expos. 
Carter's seventh-inning RBI double stood up as the winning run in Montreal's 1-0 victory over the Chicago Cubs. 
"You couldn't write a Holly­wood script for Gary Carter and let it come out like today was," Cubs manager Jim Lefebvre said. "The fans' reaction when he was on second sent chills up and down my spine. Not too many players end their careers the way he did." 
The 41,802 fans gave Carter, who is retiring after the sea­son, a standing ovation. and he pumped his fists in the air as he stood on second. He was replaced by Tim Laker, who is expected to be the Expos catcher of the future. 
"It was really appropriate that Laker would replace me. He's the catcher of the future and I hope he carries on for 18 years in the majors like I did." 
Despite the win, the Expos were mathemically eliminated from the race for first place in the National League East. 
Carter, an all-star catcher in his heyday with the Expos, hugged Laker as the phenom ran out to second. 
Larry Walker started the seventh inning with a walk, sending Carter up. 
As the crowd cheered, Cubs pitcher Mike Morgan (15-8) went ahead in the count 0-2 before Carter connected to the opposite field. 
"I hit the ball pretty good and as Andre {Dawson) was running back, I was saying: 'Please, don't catch it.' Then when the ball went over his head, I said: 'This is awesome.' 
Mel Rojas (7-1) pitched one inning for the win and John Wetteland struck out three of the four batters he faced for his 36th save in 45 opportunities. 
Morgan, who is 1-6 lifetime against the Expos, carried a one-hitter into the seventh. He finished with a two-hitter, struck out three and walked one. 
The Observer 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
the third-year coach. "In the second half we. played great, but we just didn't put away any of the chances we had. 
"We're disappointed. We felt going into the game that had a chance to win, and we played well enough to win. But we didn't." 
The lone Irish score game with only 26 seconds remain­ing. McCarthy avenged her close miss early in the half, by scoring on a direct penalty kick, that deflected off of a Duke player before finding the left side of the goal. 
Earlier in the half Duke had raised its lead to 2-0, when freshman Kelly Walbert headed in a free kick past Lodyga. 
Blue Devil coach Bill Hempen was overjoyed to leave South Bend with a win, but gave credit to Notre Dame, realizing that his team had clearly been outplayed. 
"In a lot of ways Notre Dame had a lot of the play, the major­ity of the play," he said. "We're lucky to get out of her with a 
win." 
Notre Dame had only a day to reflect ori the most disappoint-

Arthur Andersen presents 
Men & Women as Colleagues 
Food & drink will be provided Dress is casual 
Monday, September 28, 1992 7:00pm Monogram Room  
ARTHUR ANDERSEN ARTHUR ANDERsE~& Co sc  


ing loss of the season before beginning preparation for Port­land, and one of the country's top scoring tandem. 
Forwards Tiffany Milbert and Shannon MacMillan rate second and fourth nationally in scoring, with 22 and 17 points respectively. The duo has lead Portland to a 6-0 record which ties North Carolina for the best Division I record. 
Petrucelli has high respect for Portland's potent offense, but stresses that his team will not just try and neutralize their attack. 
"I believe that Tiffany Milbert is the best collegiate forward in the country," he said. "They are explosive, but we are not going to back down and just defend them." 
Offensively Petrucelli plans to let loose his offense, utilizing his team's speed to combat the defensive effort. 
"They are solid defensively. They haven't given up too many goals," said Petrucelli. "They put so much pressure on you offensively that their defense isn't challenged too much. 
"They are a fast team, but so are we." 
More of a concern to Petru­celli then the facets of Port­land's game is the response he will get from his team after such an emotional setback. 
"We really struggled after the 
Duke game em~tionally, and I 
am wondering if we can get up 
to play again," he said. "The 
loss to Duke gives us a feeling 
of desperation, but I think that's 
a positive. 
"We know that this game is 
very important, and the games 
the rest of this week a..<; well." 
Contests with second-ranked 
Stanford and 13th-ranked Wis­
consin loom on the horizon, and 
a winless week would damper 
Notre Dame's hopes for post­
season play, and probably drop 
the 16th-ranked Irish from the 
polls. 
"I was disappointed, we all 
were, after the Duke game," 
commented forward Regan 
Coyne. "It (the loss) made us 
realize how good we are, and 
that we can beat the best 
teams." .... 
THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAL PRCERAM® 

WE'RE FIGHTJ~ Frn'tOUR LIFE 

0American Heart Association 
This space provided as a public service. 
_j 
---~­
---~~-~----~--~ ---------~-----.,. 
----------------------------· ••...••r•-.,..,..,--~,._,"':"--:_~-... ~-r"'"..-"'-r::-R.·~ .. ---~ ~ ·--.......-.... · · 
Monday, September 28, 1992 
Notre Dame sprints away with title Ruder, Coyne lead impressive performance at NCC 

By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 

The sixth-ranked men's cross country team crushed all oppo­sition this Friday at the 1992 National Catholic Champi­onships, beating the field of 20 schools by over 40 points. 
Marquette and Loyola, two teams expected to give the Irish some trouble, didn't even come close. Marquette finished sec­ond with 42 points and Loyola captured sixth with 138 points. 
"Marquette and Loyola didn't present the challenge that we had anticipated," said Notre Dame head coach Joe Piane. 
When the starting gun fired 140 pairs of cleats leapt on to Burke Memorial Golf Course. Marquette came out strong in the first 300 meters behind senior Jack Lopresti. 
As coach Piane had predicted The Observer/ David Hungeling the Warriors picked up the pace A pack of Notre Dame runners set the pace during Friday's meet. early to vie for position going 
Riley, Jensen help Irish to best finish of season 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Jensen finished right after Notre Dame has in the tourna­Sports Writer Keller, followed by Emily ment, Jensen points to the Husted, Eva Flood, Becky Al­strong performances as an The Notre Dame women's fieri, and senior Lisa Gorski. indication of equal success in 
cross country team breezed Notre Dame's placing total the future. 
past 21 other .schools to capture was nineteen, with the closest "A lot of the girls had per­
the National Catholic Cross competitor being the University sonal bests, and everyone 
Country Championships Friday of St. Thomas who accumulated seemed to show great confi­
at Burke Memorial Golf Course, 99 points. dence," added the sophomore. 
The Irish had six of the top "We really like running in this "When you look at all the high 
seven finishers led by sopho­meet," commented Jensen. "It's finishes we had it may seem a 
more Sara Riley who won with at home, and there is usually little weird, but we are really 
a time of 17:59, two seconds good fan support. good, and it should be that way 
ahead of second place finisher "There were a lot of runners, every meet." 
Julie Keller from Loyola. and I thought it would be difficult for us to stay together. Sophomore Kristi Kramer Following Keller was five but it really wasn't." finished tenth, rounding out the 
Notre Dame runners. Stephanie 
Dolphins battle past Seahawks 
(AP)-Dan Marino, making his Seattle Kingdome debut, passed 15 yards to Fred Banks for Miami's only touchdown with 2:15 left, rallying the Dol­phins ( 4-0) over the Seahawks (1-3). 
Marino drove the Dolphins 80 yards in a dozen plays with the help of backup
AFC EAST quarterback 
=-=-=--=:...~:......Scott Mitchell. Mitchell came in and threw an 18-yard pass to Tony Martin to the Seattle 16 with 3:44 left on a third-and-10 play after Marino was knocked woozy. Marino came back for the next play. 
Pete Stoyanovich kicked field goals of 53, 31, 36 and 27 yards for the Dolphins. 
Rams 18, Jets 10 
Kevin Greene and Larry Kelm came up with key defen­sive plays, and the Los Angeles Rams kept the Jets winless. 
Greene inspired the Rams when he sacked Jets quarter­back Browning Nagle for a safety just before halftime, then set up one of Tony Zendejas' three field goals with a fumble recovery in the fourth quarter. 
Keirns' interception of Nagle in the final period set up Zendejas' last field goal and gave the Rams (2-2) some breathing room. 

-.... 
Bills 41, Patriots 7 
Jim Kelly threw for three touchdowns as Buffalo scored 35 points in the second half in their second straight rout. The Bills (4-0) beat Indianapolis 38-0 last week and missed their second shutout when Hugh Millen threw a 4-yard scoring pass with 8:41 to play. 


Despite the usual success top finishers for Notre Dame. 
1992-93 editions or 
du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures and Student Handbook 
are available to students in the Office or Beside nee Life 315 Administration Building 

...;._ .J' :-.: 
....: . ¥> 
.~...,.;;· ·­
John Coyle 

into the first turn. Yet after the initial sprint, Notre Dame formed a lead pack of five run­ners that Marquette could only follow. 
"We were dictating the pace from the start," said Irish senior captain John Coyle. 
After three miles Notre Dame was 50 meters ahead of the field. Despite the lead, the Irish pack never let up. The group spent the entire second half of the race widening their lead from the rest of the field. After four miles it was only a ques­tion of in which order would the group of runners would finish. 
The Irish runners did not pursue individual glory but in­stead finished together. Junior Mike McWilliams, senior cap­tain John Coyle, and sophomore standout Nate Ruder won the race with a time of 25:02. 
This victory brings Notre Dame's record to 2-0 and it provided a showcase for a promising future. 
"This victory is anoth"er step toward the NCAA," said Coach Piane. 
The younger runners con­tinue to have impressive per­formances. John Cowan com­prised the Notre Dame pack that held the top four places and Ruder actually finished even with the two All-Ameri­cans Coyle and McWilliams. 
"Nate Ruder and John Cowan have made the step up from last year," said John Coyle. 
AND ETCETERAS 
At Resurrection Medical Center, Nurses enjoy all the essentials for a satisfying career, and many extras you might not expect. 
Our 434-bed community hospital was founded in 1953 on Chicago's beautiful nonhwest side, where multidisciplinary teams panicipate in a variety ofcare delivery systems. Our speciality areas include: 
• 
Emergency • ICX::U • SICU/Open Hean oSurgical Step-Down • Telemetry 

• 
Medical • Med/Surg • Oncology • Onhopedics • Rehabilitation • Surgical • LDRP Unit • Pediatrics/Gyne • Operating Room • PACU • Pavilion Extended Care Facility 

• 
Out-Patient Services 



Our salaries, schedules and benefits are among Chicago's most competitive. You can enjoy our in-house child care center and fimess center, ruition reimbursement, ins• •r.ulCe options and generous paid time off 
Be sure to see us at St. Mary's College 1992 Nursingjob Fair on Wednesday, September 30th. 
Or contact Cathy Osicek, RN, MS. Manager, Professional Recruitment, (312) 792-5180. Resurrection Medical Center, 7435 W. Talcott Ave., Chicago, IL 60631. Equal Opponunity Employer MIFIDN. 
•:ifi.(8i Med1cal Re~u~ction (.enter 
ATTENTION FUTURE HOLLYWOOD STARS: 
Sunbeam Productions needs EXTRAS for a film shooting in South Bend which takes place on the Notre Dame ca·mpus in the sixties. If interested, men should let your hair and sideburns grow NOW for a late 60's look. Stay tuned for more details. 
Monday, September 28, 1992 
SPELUNKER 
---~---~ 
•

Today 
page 19 
JAY HOSLER 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1\REN.T '(OJ SUPPoS£D m st: Do\N.ccr iaiJR HOt<\t:WORK? 
.....4V-­


BILL WATIERSON 

l't-A PREll'{ S\JRt: T\-\£. 
115 NO\ DENif:>.l. ASS\G~t<\t:l'lT W.AS l't-.\ J\.lS\ 'IER'{ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

26 Disclosure 50 Yugoslav city 55 Indigo 30 Coterie 51 One hundred: 58 Bill's partner 31 Love apple Comb. form 59 Niflheim ruler 32 Click beetle 52 Spiny-finned fish 60 Purpose 33 Fame 53 "Help Me Make It 61 Arikara 
36 Actress Holm -theNight" 
62 Narrow water 38 Extinct 54 Ireland, to Gaels passage: Abbr. Hawaiian birds 40 Fairy 43 Noblewoman 
Get answers to any three clues
47 Spiro and family 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­
48 Monetary unit of 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
Israel 
52 Candlemaker's substance 
56 Couples's cheapest purchase 
57 Board game with marbles 63 V-shaped roof gutter 64 Affliction 65 Belief 66 Macho matches 67 Our nearest star 68 More ancient 
DOWN 
1 Ballerina's step 2 Uncooked 3 Plural of is 4Nix 5 Fried turnover 6 Old English 
letter 7 Aries a Noah's 
debarkation site 9 Maltreater 10 Spanish and 
Italian queens 
11 Theater section 12 Humdinger 13 Headland 
19Toper 
competence 
Revolution aftermath 25 Actual 

OP\101'-\1\L. 
SEL~C.T\'J~ ABCliJI 11-\t: RE:A.LIT'( I 1\C.CE\'T. 

THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

"In fact, you like to build fires, don't you, Mr. Pig? Building fires and burning wild animals a pastime of yours, Mr. Pig? Did you know my client is an endangered species, Mr. Pig, while you yourself are nothing more than a walking side of ham?" 
CAMPUS 
Monday 
9:00 a.m. Business Leadership in the Environmental Crisis, Lecture "International Paper," followed by panel discussion. Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
10:45 a.m. Lecture, "Indiana-Michigan Power Company," Followed by panel discussion. Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
7:00 p.m. Film, "Mr. West in the Land of the Bolsheviks." Annenberg Auditorium. 
9:00 p.m. Film, "Invasion of the Body Snatchers." Annenberg Auditorium. 
Tuesday 
9:00 a.m. Business Leadership in the Environmental Crisis, Lecture "McDonald's Corp," followed by panel discussion. Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
10:45 a.m. "Concluding Panel." Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education. Sponsored by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Caper &NOW's legislation concern 
&Casaba 14 Burr or Copland 15 Pitch 16 Golfer's 
hole-­17 Therapeutic treatments 20 Suffix with 
expert 21 Reveille players 22 Two-tab dinners 
for two 27 Arrow poison 28 Sermonizer's 
source 
29 Perfume ingredient 34 Sharp-nosed 
fish 35 Race segment 36 A patois of La. 37 Spanish stream 39 Avoid wedding 
costs 41 Counterfeiter 
catcher 42 Knockabouts 44Caen 
condiment 45From-Z 46Concise 47 River to the 
Rhine 48 Muddle or mulligan 49 Oboe's cousin 

COMING ATTRACTIONS: 
THURSDAY 
Acoustic Cafe Featuring Victoria's Real Secret 9:00p.m.-12:00 a.m. LaFortune 
Rebel Without a Cause 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 

FRIDAY 
The Russel Simmons Def Comedy Jam -As seen on HBO ­
8:00 p.m.Stepan Center $10.00 • 
Father of the Bride 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
SATURDAY 
Father of the Bride 
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. 
Cushing Auditorium $2.00 
_. 
STUDENT UNION IIQO,RO 
,-. 
• 
t 
l r 
I 
I i 
I 
• 
Sports 
page 20 Monday, September 28, 1992 
JENNY MARTEN 

Brooks, defense down Purdue 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
On Top of Sports 
Sports Editor 
Entering this season. most looked at Notre Dame 1-----------------t and saw two Heisman Trophy candidates-Jerome
Unknown players 
Play Valuable role 
l"n lri"Sh SUCCeSS 

"Charles Stafford runs left for six yards... Tim Klusas up the middle for three yards ... Matt Johnson pitches left to Rick Lozano for one yard ... " 
Most of the soggy fans still in Notre Dame Stadium for the fourth quarter of Saturday's game, probably never heard of most of the guys in the game, unless they were students who had classes with them. lived in the same dorm, or had met them socially. 
You don't see their names in The Observer , and some have to share their numbers with someone else. NFL teams won't be calling them, but they practice just as hard as the players who will be called. 
They are the members of Notre Dame's prep teams. They run the offensive and defensive formations of the opposing team in practice so that the starters will be prepared for the game on Saturday. 
Most people don't realize the importance of the players. It is their job to make sure that the starters are ready for the game. Guys like Mike Lalli, Matt Adams, Mark Andrzejewski and Deswood Etsitty, who aren't on scholarship, and who aren't as big or as fast as the starters, can help them im­prove. 

Bettis and Rick Mirer. On Saturday, a third entered the picture as Heggie Brooks rushed for 205 yards on only 15 carries to lead the Irish to an impressive 48-0 shutout of Purdue. 
However. it was definitely not a one-man show. 
• Irish defense gains long awaited shutout/page 16 
Great blocking by both the offensive line and the receivers keyed big runs all day. 
A perfect example of this was Brooks' 63-yard touchdown run off the option in the third quarter, which put the Irish up 21-0 and started the offensive onslaught. 
"Rick made a great pitch. and I got terrific downfield blocking from the wideouts," Brooks explained. "The only thing I had to do was outrun the defense." 
Ray Griggs, whose blocking played a crucial role all day, felt it was the receivers obligation to help the running game. 
"Today (Saturday) it was rainy and it was pretty hard to throw and catch the ball. We had to make our mark somewhere, and fortunately it was blocking," the senior flanker said. 
Following one of many Irish defensive stands, Notre Dame got the ball on the Purdue 25. Two plays later, Bettis, who had 93 yards on 18 carries, took it 24 yards to give the Irish a 28-0 lead. 
In the Irish's next possession, Brooks scored his second touchdown of the afternoon to stretch the lead to 35-0. 
At this point, Irish coach Lou Holtz planned to take the first team out of the game, but the Irish got the ball on their own 20, one of the few times they had poor field position. 
"I wanted the first-team to go in and get a couple first downs," Holtz commented. "Then, put the second­team in there." 
Holtz, however, had to wait until Notre Dame's next 
see PURDUE/page 16 
Tough weekend for Notre Dame soccer 
Their presence at practice enables the starters to become familiar with plays that the opponents might run as well as allow the Irish to work on new plays and new defenses. 
Most of the prep players will only have a few seconds of actual playing time to tell their children about. Those who dressed for the game against Purdue probably never thought that they would get to play on Saturday. 

Usually, prep players only get to play in the senior game in their senior year and only Dan "Rudy" Ruettiger will have his few seconds in action on the field immortalized in a movie. 
It is a credit to Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz that he found a way to get everyone into the game. Some might not have been at positions that they were used to, but they played. For some it was probably the only time all year that they will get to play in a game. 
Hopefully, the Irish will be able to dominate more games this year as they did on Saturday, and Holtz will continue to get as many people as possible into the games. It makes the game memorable for the players, their parents, and the fans who know them. 
INSIDE SPORTS 

By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
It was the kind of game that turns good teams into great teams. 
Friday's game against fifth-ranked Indiana was an opportunity for the youthful Notre Dame men's soccer team to burst onto the scene as a national power. 
But it didn't quite work out that way. 
Indiana jumped out to an early lead and never looked back as they dumped the Irish 3-0. 
"We just didn't play well and they played a perfect game. They caught us on a bad night," Notre Dame captain Mario Tricoci said. "But I don't think 
they're a better team than we are." The Hoosiers were the better team on both sides of the ball Friday night. 
Steve Keller began the scoring less than 17 minutes into the game on an assist from Tim Hardy. Keller then assisted Brian Maisonneuve, who con­verted a header at the 30:38 mark to give the Hoosiers a 2-0 lead. 
Brandon Ward completed the scoring with seven minutes left in the game after taking a pass from Maisonneuve and heading it off the right post. 
Indiana was equally impressive defensively, holding the Irish to just one shot on goal. 
see HOOSIERS/page 15 

#5 Portland awaits after loss to Duke 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
"Disappointed" and "des-perate" were the words that came to Notre Dame coach Chris Petrucelli's mind when he talked his women's soccer team. 
The disappointment comes from the 2­1 setback at the hands of 14th-ranked Duke on Friday night, and the despera­tion comes from the must win situation the Irish are in as they play fifth-ranked Portland today at Alumni Field at 3 p.m. 
Against Duke, Petrucelli's squad started slowly, but outplayed the Blue Devils for the majority of the game. 
The sluggish beginning resulted in a 1­0 deficit for the Irish when forward Meegan McMillin beat Irish sweeper Ashley Scharff and then goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga with a little over fifteen minutes remaining in the half. 
"At the half I was concerned with the way we left the field." said the Irish coach. "We were acting as if we lost, and the game wasn't over. I just wanted to stress at half that we were not out of the game." 
Petrucelli's halftime speech ignited the Notre Dame offense which exploded to start the half, and maintained that pace for the rest of the game. 
The intensity of the Irish offense resulted in many opportunities but little success. 
Shot after shot couldn't find the net, with the most glaring example coming at the 66:37 mark, when midfielder Michelle McCarthy's shot deflected off of the left goalpost, then careened off of the right post before it fell into Duke goalkeeper Melissa Carr's arms. 
After the game, an emotional Petrucelli reflected on his team's missed opportunities. 
"I don't know how to feel," commented 
see IRISH/page 17 

-
•cross country teams triumph 
see page 18 

•Purdue game notes 
see page 16 

•Huskies take over top spot 
see page 13 

•NFC Central roundup 
see page 12 






