
~ 

1342 1992 SESQUICENT£NNI.t.l 
VOL. XXIV NO. 109 
THURSDAY, MARCH 5 1992 · THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ~ 
Senators elected in run-offs 
Baker, McKeon/Pistick elected; Callahan challenged 
By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
StudPnts votPd in run-off elections for thn•e Student Sen­atn seats yestPrday. but only two of the nlPt'tions yinlded offi­cial n~sults. 
Keenan Hall sophomore Tim Callahan unofficially won the District 3 (North Quad) run-off. while Grar.e Hall freshman David BakPr took District 4 (Mod Quad). Gracn Hall junior Keith MrKPon and Fisher Hall junior Tom Pistick were elected Off-campus <'.o-pn~sidrmts. 
ThP rPsults of tlw District 3 run-ofT arP !wing rhaliPnged by Callahan's opporwnt. Stanford Ilall sophomorP ;\I Nicgorski. 
Nicgorski has accusnd Calla­

High-flying fun 
han of violating campaign regu­lations. ar.cording to Elections Commissiorwr Travis Reindl. Reindl said the judicial board's Pthir.s committee would hold a hnaring on the allegations this evening. He also said he asked thn candidates not to discuss the specific nature of Nic­gorski's allegations until after the hearing is concluded. 
A similar hearing was held yesterday afternoon concerning Dave Certo's challenge of Tyler Farmer's victory in the District 1 (South Quad) senate race. A spokesperson for the ethics committee said its findings in tlw CPrto/Farmer case would be relt•ased today. 
Callahan received 478 votes 
(54.9 percent of the vote) in 
yp,sterday's balloting, compared to Nicgorski's 392 votes (45.1 percent). 
In the District 4 run-off, Baker defeated Flanner Hall junior Jacob Frost 478 (59.2 percent) to 330 (40.8 percent). Baker said a last-minute cam­paign swing through his dis­trict's female dorms helped to bring about his large margin of victory. 
The senator-elect indicated that he wanted to organize spe­cial Mod Quad activities in an attempt to counter the tendency of students to "migrate to North Quad." He also expressed a desire to receive suggestions from his constituents. 
''I'd be more than willing to 
see ELECTIONS I page 4 
The Observer/David Hungeling 


-~'{• ~ . RUN-OFF ELECTION RESULTS 
North Quad  Totals  
Callahan  54.9%  478  
NicgorskiI~?f1 f~  .: ..:,:::::::::,:.:,::::i:i=i.::::,:,.:,•. J  .·  i I  392  
Mod Quad  
Baker  59.2%  478  
Frost  330  
Off-Campus  
McKeon  60.0%  163  
Smith  110  

The Observer/Eric Kreidler 

Justice, Glover perform King, Hughes speeches 
By AMY MARK 
News Writer 
Sharing with the audience the the desire for the liberation of the black people and more uni­versal and humanitarian con­cerns, Felix Justice and Danny Glover portrayed two promi­nent figures in black American history last night. 
Justice and Glover have toured approximately thirteen campuses, concluding their tour with a final show in Stepan Center. Their performance was followed by a brief question­and-answer session with the audience. 
Justice performed an excerpt from his one-man show, which has toured the U. S. and Africa, featuring the writings of Martin Luther King. Jr. Opening the show with dimmed lights and a moment of silence, he created an atmosphere similar to those in which King spoke. The audience responded to Justice's request that they become a part of this atmosphere, much like the large Bapist congregations to whom King spoke. 
The excerpt included the many aspects of King's cause. Justice, as King, criticized the hypocrisy of poverty and social oppression to the government's promotion of the Vietnam War. 
• Glover conference/ page 3 
Justice's half of the presenta­tion concluded with the pas­sionate "Drum Major" spee<~h. Declaring "free at .last, free at last, thank God Almighty, we are free at last," Justice moved the audience to a standing ova­tion. 
Glover's interpretation of the poetry of Langston Hughes complemented Justice's speech. He began with one of Langston's early works. titled "I've Known Rivers." He sup­ported his readings with per­sonal reflections and his knowledge of Hughes' life. Other recitations included "Mother to Son." "Fire," "Notes on Commercial Theater" and "Let America Be America." 
In the discussion afterwards, both Justice and Glover ex­plained why they had chosen each respective interpretation. Glover said that Hughes was the preeminent poet of black America who captured thf' essPnce of human life in verse. Justice selected this portion of his presentation to show the college generation the universal interPsts of King. 
The presentation was spon­sored by the Student Union Board. 

Sophomore Jim Meyers let his Aerobie fly a bit too l:ligh yesterday afternoon on South Quad. As a result he had to scale this tree in front of the Rockne Memorial Gymnasium. 
Candidates dig in for another round of primaries, caucuses 
(AP) -Democrats dug in for a new round of primary wars on Wednesday pitting Bill Clin­ton's middle-class pocketbook appeal against Paul Tsongas' pro-business views. The Repub­lican campaign descended into the surreal as a winless Patrick Buchanan called on President Bush to bow out of the race. 
That was an offer Bush could -and did -refuse as he em­barked on an intensive South­ern campaign swing. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Buchanan's comment showed the presi­dent's ascerbic challenger had "gone loony tunes." 
Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey, without a victory in eight con­tests on Tuesday, returned to Washington and did nothing to squelch speculation he would become the first dropout of the Democratic campaign. But Jerry Brown and Sen. Tom Harkin pushed ahead. one cit­ing his Colorado primary victory and the other a win in Idaho's caucuses. 
All around, the prospect was for a more protracted nominat­ing campaign than the Republi­cans ever dreamed of, or that the Democratic establishment ever cared to see in its hopes of capturing the White House. 
"It's a many-fronted war," said Clinton aide Frank Greer -and Tsongas and Clinton al­ready were airing television ads in Florida and Texas. There are 15 Democratic primaries and caucuses over the next week, many of them in Clinton's southern bastion, with 904 Democratic delegates. 
It was no less true among the Republicans, with nine states and 457 delegates at stake vot­ing over the next week. South Carolina was the first up on Saturday, and Bush faced not only Buchanan but former Ku Klux Klansman David Duke as well. 
The president campaigned in Florida with retired Gen. Nor­man Schwarzkopf, commanding general of the war against Iraq. Bush, winner of all the GOP contests to date, said he believed Buchanan's consistent 30 percent showing in the pri­maries was a protest against economic hard times. 
"But that will turn around," he said. "The economy will turn around." 

Campaigning in Louisiana, Buchanan said Bush could not be elected in November, adding that he, alone, can appeal to independents and Democrats. 
At the same time, he conceded that "if the president decides to fight all the way to the convention, delegate by delegate, caucus by caucus, as well as primaries, it is very, very problematic how you can beat him ... I have to. start winning somewhere." 
Tsongas, winner in Maryland and Utah primaries on Tuesday and leader in Washington's in­complete caucus count, and Clinton, victor in Georgia, were the best financed and organized of the Democrats. 
Each seemed primed for a 
showdown over economics. 
"I call my program a people first economic program, not a money-first economic pro­gram," Clinton said as he cam­paigned in a poor section of Miami. "He says the way to fix the economy is to give an across-the-board capital gains cut to make it more attractive to buy stocks," he said of his chief rival. 
Clinton is hoping to wrack up huge victories and delegate margins in contests across Dixie next Tuesday, and effectively wrap up the nomination by the following week, when Michigan and Illinois vote. 
Tsongas pursued a different strategy: to cushion himself 
see POLITICS/ page 5 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Pangborn proposal is beneficial to all 
Although the idea of a 
co-ed Pangborn is not 
one that is likely to be 
realized anytime before 
the start of the 1992-93 
school year, it raises 
issues that are not going 
to disappear anytime 
soon. 
The group of students 
who are proposing to 
make Pangborn co-ed 
and chemical-free are offering a new 
approach to both the alcohol and residentially 
problems that are perpetual issues on this 
campus. 
The proposal to make Pangborn co-ed and 
chemical-free is not saying people who drink 
are more likely to have sex, and by taking the 
alcohol away, co-ed housing is no longer a 
problem. It is not a moral issue. It is not an 
Issue of sex or drunkenness. It is an issue of 
choice. 
The thought that co-ed housing is pseudonymous with sexual promiscuity among students is absurd. By offering the option of co-ed housing, the University will in no way have to change its position on pre-marital sex or parietals. It would simply be allowing its students the option of choosing the type of living environment they will have while at Notre Dame. 
The idea that by removing chemicals from 
the dorm environment, all problems of dorm 
life will immediately disappear is equally as 
absurd. Alcohol is not the problem, it is the 
environment that people are forced to make 
decisions about alcohol consumption that 
ereates problems. 
The proposal to turn Pangborn in to a co-ed, chemical-free dorm offers students the opportunity to make choices about their lifestyles and living environments that have previously not been offered at this university. It is not a proposal to offer alcohol-free sex, but it is an attempt at compromise for the sake of progress. 
Let's face it, University officials could be considered brain dead if they do not think that alcohol-free living is a good thing. At the same time, the results of the report by the 1988 Task Force on Hesideney showed that Notre Dame students are in favor of the idea of co­ed housing. Why not compromise? 
The Hall Presidents' Council, as well as the Flanner hall council, have given their support to the idea. It is obvious that Notre Dame students are taking the proposal seriously, I would hope that the University is doing likewise. 
With the plan to increase the enrollment of women at Notre Dame beginning to be put into action, it is evident that the conversion of Pangborn is only the first of many decisions that will have to be made about the state of dorm life at Notre Dame. The co-ed, chemical­free proposal could be a comfortable step for those administrators who are not in favor of making radical changes in residential life at Notre Dame. 
Although it is unlikely that Pangborn will become co-ed and chemical-free, the initiative shown by the group of students who proposed the idea revealed a creative and responsible approach to the issues at hand. The University would be wise to carefully consider this proposal before they make another decision to convert another male dorm for female housing.
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Today's Staff 

Sports Jan Marten Jon Jensen  Production Kathy Fong Cheryl Moser  
News Dave Kinney Frank Rivera Steve Zavestoski  Business Andy Runkle Fransisco Lozano Cheryl Moser  
Lab Tech Jake Peters  Systems Fritz Valsaint  
Accent  

Jahnelle Harrigan Fran Moyer Patrick Moran 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, March 5, 1992
The Observer 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD "DeiHfnerate" art exhibited in Berlin 
NATIONAL 
Out-of-state trash dumped illegally 

• INDIANAPOLIS -A business that unloaded boxcars of out-of-state trash headed for Indiana land­fills didn't believe it needed a permit before the state went to court to shut down the operation, the state Supreme Court was told Wednesday. Plews, represent­ing National Salvage and Service Corp., asked the five justices to throw out a 1989 Marion Cireuit Court order preventing the unloading of trash-filled boxcars. That order was upheld last year by the Court of Appeals, which ruled the business needed a state permit. However, Plews argued there was no reason for the business to believe that in 1989. Its representatives had consulted with state environmental officials, who didn't indicate a permit was needed, said Plews. 
Mardi Gras tainted by anti-bias law 

• NEW ORLEANS -Hundreds of thousands of merrymakers closed out Mardi Gras with the tradi­tional burst of debauchery in the French Quarter -the 
OF INTEREST 

• The Notre Dame Orchestra Spring Concert featuring works by Brahms, Haydn and Dvorak with Karen Buranskas as cello soloist, will be held tonight at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
MARKET UPDATE 

final note in a Carnival season marked by bitterness over an anti-bias law. The dispute over the ordinance, which could foree elite, eentury-old parade clubs to in­tegrate and admit women, seemed far from the minds of revelers who jammed the city for Fat Tuesday. The anti-bias law, scheduled to take effect next year, bitterly divided city leaders and raised fears of racial violence during the celebration. 
Prosecutors erred in Noriega's trial 

• MIAMI -The defense at Manuel Noriega's drug trafficking trial offered photos and testimony to show that proseeutors apparently erred in alleging Noriega freed 23 drug suspects by flying them to Colombia in his private jet. The 23 were arrested·. in 1984 when Panamanian troops raided a jungle drug lab operated by Colombia's Medellin cocaine cartel. Their release, prosecutors alleged, showed that Noriega had taken bribes from cartel bosses. On Tuesday, Rodolfo Castrellon, a former Panamanian air force official and speeial ambassador to Israel, said the suspects were handed over to Colombian authorities in Bogota, along with legal papers. 
Novel reveals sexual harassment 
• LOS ANGELES-When Joseph Wambaugh de­cided to write a novel with a retired woman cop as the central figure, he went to the source and interviewed female officers on the job. Without exception, he said, they had stories to tell about sexual harassment -not by criminals but by their fellow male officers. "I inter­viewed about two dozen female cops," Wambaugh said. "All of them talked about how difficult it was for women to do police work." In his new book, "Fugitive Nights," Wamb~gh's protagonist, Breda Burrows, re­calls the days when she was a police officer enduring the taunts of male cops, a situation which spurs her early retirement to life as a private investigator in Palm Springs. 
• Of Interests are offered free for any one-time events of general interest.Come to The Observer, third floor of LaFortune, by 1 p.m. the day before your event to fill out the proper form. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING/ March 4 VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX JJ-­206,911,100 226.66 v 1.77 n-...-..._:S&P COMPOSITE 409.33 .. 3.52 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 3,268.56 "" 21.69 PRECIOUS METALS GOLD ft $0.20 to $351.60/oz. SILVER 1? 0.9¢ to $4.11/oz.  •In 1770: The Boston Massacre took place as British soldiers who had been taunted by a crowd of colonists opened fire, killing several people. • In 1868: The Senate was organized into a Court of Im­peachment to decide charges against President Andrew John­son. • In 1933: In Germany, the Nazi Party won a majority of seats in !)arliamentary elections. • In 1953: Soviet leader Josef Stalin died at the age of 73 after 29 years in power.• In 1970: A nuclear non-proliferation treaty went into effect after 43 nations ratified it. • In 1984: The U.S. Supreme Court ruled, 5-4, that a city could use public funds to build a Nativity scene as part of an official display without violating the Constitution's separation of church and state.  



success to three things: talent, time and being blessed. Justice said the combination of the three is what helped them 
Dr. Dolores B. Grier 
Notre Dame Law School 

reach their positions. 
····aaircat•·~>lli. 
Thursday, March 5 
7:30 p.m. ALL ARE WELCOME 

wliiif~:llo• 
Dr. Grier is the founder and president of the Association of Black Catholics Against Abortion, and a board member of the African American Society Against Abort1on and of the New York Right to Life Committee. 

Sponson:4 ~Y Notn: Dame Low School Ri1h110 Life 
;and Nouc Dame/ Saini Mary'5 Riehl to Lire 

Thursday, March 5, 1992 The Observer 
Gospel choir to perform in Florida over spring break 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
News Writer 
The Voices of Faith, Notre Dame's gospel choir, will be touring Florida and Georgia over spring break, according to Keith Johnson, president of the choir. 
The choir is embarking on its first tour on Saturday, said Johnson. The forty-seven members of the choir will travel first to Tampa, Fla., and will sing at the University of Southern Florida. 
Then they will go to Belle Glade. Fla. There the choir will perform at a local church. The following stop will be at Disney 
Minority Faculty Fellowships awarded 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Graduate School has awarded Coca-Cola Minority Faculty Fellowships for 1992-93 to Charmaine McKissick-Kemp and Joy Browne. 
In conjunction with 50 histor­ically black colleges and univer­sities, Notre Dame offers the fellowships in an effort to en­hance and strengthen the pool of minority teachers and re­searchers in higher education. 
The fellowships are available for one semester or a semester and a summer. They include housing plus a stipend of $16,000 for the semester and $4,000 for the summer. Recipi­

~--------------------------, program is about slain civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther
RACE GENOCIDE 
King and poet Langston Hughes. 
Glover said at a press conference yesterday afternoon that even though Hollywood is trying to produce films which black audiences can identify with and black actors are trying 

THROUGH ABORTION 
a talk by 
to take roles that will relate to African-American experiences, they have not been very successful. 
"(They are) talking about 
World in Orlando, where the choir will spend two days. The performances will be held at the Epcot center. For the final shows Voices of Faith will head north to Atlanta, Ga., where the choir will sing at Emory Uni­versity. 
Johnson stated that the type of songs the choir will be per­forming will be mostly contem­porary gospel. He said, how­ever, "that we will do more pa­triotic songs, like the Star Spangled ·Banner. Places like Disney World only allow secular music." 
The entire trip is being funded by the Alumni clubs of Florida and Georgia, Johnson 
ents are required to teach one course or seminar at Notre Dame while pursuing research in a Graduate School degree program. 
McKissick-Kemp, chair of the department of mass communi­cation, speech and theater at Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C., will finish the autobiogra­phy of her late father, Judge Floyd McKissick, during the summer and fall of this year. She also will offer a course on modern civil rights. 
Browne is a lecturer in reli­gion and the assistant minister at Spelman College in Atlanta. While at Notre Dame in the spring and summer of 1993, 
w/~/~~ [W [F) 
[L[W~~~ 
V®(!J]Qff® ~~ 
Cancunis coming So are tequilla shots, and margaritas, and big beers, and 
E. ? 
.... r1c . (we love you mucho) 
stated. In Atlanta the Coca­Cola company is donating the money to the Georgia club to sponsor the Voices of Faith. And for the Orlando portion of the trip some members of the alumni club donated their own money, said Johnson. 
The Voices of Faith gospel choir, although touring the south during spring break, often sings on the Notre Dame campus. 
While on campus, the gospel choir performs at multi-cultural prayer services, minority recruitment weekend and at masses in Sacred Heart Church and dormitories when they are asked to perform. 
she will continue work on her doctorate and teach a course on African-American perspectives on religion. 
Established in 1991, the mi­nority faculty fellowship pro­gram is one of several steps taken by Notre Dame and the Coca-Cola Foundation to in­crease minority representation in the academy. 
The foundation also supports the University's programs to establish faculty exchange agreements with historically black colleges and universities, to increase minority represen­tation on the faculty and to en­courage and facilitate graduate education for minority students. 

Films don't-mirror African-American life 
By DANNIKA SIMPSON 
News Writer 
Although the role of African­American films are becoming a part of American film history, changes are still needed, said actor Danny Glover. 
"There's an indication that it (African-American film) is an issue and probably mirrors African-Americans in society. There is quite a bit of room for change," he said. 
Glover and Felix Justice, actor and director, were at Notre Dame yesterday to perform two one man shows titled "An Evening with Langston and Martin." The 

page 3 
The Observer/David Hungeling 

Par for the day 
Freshman Tom Fitzpatrick took advantage of yesterday's above par weather by perfecting his putting stroke on the practice green of the Burke Memorial Golf Course 


playing roles that identify with the African-American experience. Buppie bashing against home-boys ... This is the new technique that Hollywood has adopted." Buppie is the acronym for black "yuppies." 
Glover said Hollywood makes most of its money from action films and that many dramatic films do not have the box office appeal. Black films do, however, seem to be making an impact on Hollywood because black filmmakers are being encouraged. 
"As long as African-American artists feel 
encouraged by the atmosphere, so will the work they produce," he said. 
Felix Justice said the African-Anierican community is undergoing a transition which makes it hard to produce films about the black community. 
"The dramatic producers of social value tend to reflect what is going on in the community at the time," Justice said. "The black community is in a state of transition. It is hard to write about transition." 
Glover and Justice came up with the idea to do a show about Martin Luther King and Langston Hughes about a year ago. Justice said the show is designed to teach the non­minority population about African-American culture. 
Both gentlemen said that each time they do the show they learn something new about the men they are portraying. 
"I never fail to instruct myself ,"said Justice. "I find a sense of education each time I hear Danny speak Langston's poetry." 
Both men also attribute their 


Soaring cost forces Pravda to cut back 

MOSCOW (AP) -The rising cost of newsprint has forced Pravda to cut back to three is­sues a week and ask its readers for donations. Dwindling funds threaten to put the former Communist Party newspaper out of business by next month. 
"We have colossal dif'f'icul­ties," the deputy chief editor, Alexandt~r llyin, acknowledged in an interview today. "WP havH certain loans and have appealed to our readers for lwlp." 
Chief Editor Gennady So­leznev told Commonwealth of Independent Statfls tell'vision on Tuesday that the newspa­per founded by Lenin in 1912 will run out of money at thA end of March. 
Stdeznev said newspaper subscriptions for 1992 covcmd the eost of produdng only 20 issuos. and that Pravda has twen rPiying on high-internst loans from commereial banks. 
Pravda almady has reduced publication from seven days a week to live days. Now it will appear on newsstands on Tuesdays. Thursdays and Sat­urdays only, Ilyin said. 
Pravda also has rai~ed its prices several times since the failed August coup against then-President Mikhail Gor­bachev, which led to the ban­ning of the Communist Party and temporary suspension of the newspaper. 
It now costs 1.25 rubles (roughly 1.3 cents), up from 3 kopecks (a fraction of 1 etmt) from last year. 
The newspaper still enjoys wide support among readers who favor a return to a more hard-line government and has a circulation of 1,385,000. But that's not enough to keep up with increases in everything from salaries to newsprint costs. 
Yeltsin issued a decrt)e in Fnbruary that would force all enterprises in the pulp and pa­per industry to sell their goods at fixed prices, but Ilyin said it "came too late." 
"A systematic economic sti­lling of the free, independent press, including Pravda, is go­ing on." the newspaper com­plained in a front-page note to readers on Tuesday. 

121 dead in mining disaster 
KOZLU, Turkey (AP)-Heavy smoke and gas blocked res­cuers Wednesday from reaching an estimated 150 men trapped deep in a burning mine. Already, 121 bodies have been pulled out in Turkey's worst mining disaster, officials said. 
"We wait for a miracle for their survival," said Akin Go­nen, the state minister for press relations. Heat or toxic gas from the fire have probably killed any miners who survived the blast, he said. 
Workers closed ventilation shafts to cut off air feeding the fire ignited by the blast. and erected concrete barriers to prevent the spread of the blaze. Ambulances lined up outside the entrance, where thousands of relatives of missing miners also waited anxiously for news of loved ones. Other ambu­lances carried charred bodies covered with blankets to morgues for identification. 
It was a grimly familiar scene in this northern Turkish city of' 60,000 where most families earn their living from the mine. 

Have a safe Spring Break. 
Four other major explosions at the Kozlu mii1e have taken 107 lives since 1945. 
"How am I going to survive alone?" cried one woman whose husband remained miss­ing, as she held her 9-year-old son. 
Tuesday's explosion 1,850 feet below the surface caused a 1 1/2-square-mile portion of the Incirharmani mine to collapse, said Ozer Olcer, the head of Turkey's state-owrH~d Coal Enterprise. 
The biggest Turkish labor confederation, Turk-Is, isstwd a statement attacking what it said were low safety standards in the mines. But officials said lncirharmani's emergency equipment made it a showcase for visiting engineers. 
The early warning system did not work because the naturally occurring methane gas that caused the blast built up a dan­gerous level a mern 20 seecmds before the explosion, State Minister Orner Barutcu said. 
"It is a heart-burning pain for the whole country," Pnnnier 
Suleyman Demirel. holding back tears, told reporters in Kozlu. 
Gonen said 101 miners were known dead and 75 others had been injun~d. IIe said the gov­ernment now estimates there are 150 additional workers missing, down from earlier es­timates of up to 300. Anatolia news agency later reported 20 more bodies had been found. 
Officials basc~d the earlier figure on the number of' flash­lights registered in use at the tinw of tlw blast. But OleN said some survivors probably fled the mine explosion without re­turning their flashlights or no­tifying officials. 
"EvervwlwrP was on lin•. WP had to. wait for nothing but dPath," cmn unidnntified sur­vivor told statn-tnlcwision. An­otllf'r said an nar-shattl'ring Pxplosion thn~w him nirw fnl't. 
Turkey's worst pnwious coal minn disastnr killnd 103 nwn in 1983 at a minn six miles from Kozlu, at thn Blat~k StHL port of Zonguldak. 

F
or retirement to be the time ofyour life, you 
can add up quickly. have to dream a little-about the things What else makes SRAs you've always wanted to do: travel, explore, so special? A broad range start a business. Just imagine... of allocation choices, from 
With a dream and a plan, you can make it the safety ofTIAA to the 
happen. Your pension and Social Security investment accounts of should provide a good CREF's variable annuity; basic retirement income, no sales charges; a variety ofways to receive but what about all those income, including annuities, payments over a extras that make your fixed period, or cash. You may also be able to dreams possible? You'll borrow against your SRA accumulation probably need some before you retire.* additional savings. All this, plus the top investment manage­


ment that has helped make TIAA-CREF the
THE DREAM IS YOUR OWN. 
largest retirement system in the country.
WE CAN HELP YOU WITH THE PLAN. So start dreaming and planning for the time 
TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement ofyour life. Because the sooner you start yourAnnuities (SRAs), tax-deferred annuities for 
SRA, the greater your savings and your retire­people like you in education and research, are 
ment will be. 
a good way to save for retirement and save on taxes now. SRAs are easy-you make con­
,------------/
tributions through your institution before your taxes are calculated, so you pay less tax now. 
START PLANNING FOR THE 
I

You pay no tax on 
,•. 

TIME OF YOUR LIFE, TODAY. , your SRA contributions For your free TIAA-CREF Supplemental and earnings until you ; . Retirement Annuity Kit, send this coupon to: TIAA-CREF, Dept. QC, 730 Third Avenue, 
receive them as income. 

New York, NY 10017. Or calli 800 842-2733, Ext. 8016.
And saving regularly means your contribu­Namr (Please print) tions and their earnings 

Cit.v 
!nJtituliml (Full name)
Ensuring the future for those who shape it:" Titit Daylim~ Plnrnr ( ) 
AUSTIN, Texas (AP) -Tnle­vision nvangelist Hobert Tilton testified Wednesday that the state's top prosecutor was "playing dirty" by encmrr·aging media attacks on his ministry. 
Tilton and his wife. Martha "Marte" Tilton. appeared bnfore 
U.S. District .Judge Sam Sparks in an attempt to get an injunction against Attorney Gnneral Dan Morales' investi­gation into their ministry. 
Tilton, who says faith is rn­warded with wealth. is suing on First Amendmnnt grounds to keep thn state from obtaining finaneial rncords of his Word of Faith Outreach Center Church. 
Outsidn court. more than 200 Tilton supporters gathered. many carrying Bibles. 
Tilton said lw objected to Morales' decision to transmit 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
listnn Ito what students have to 
say)," Baker said. 
Frost congratulated his op­ponent for doing "a pretty good job" in his election campaign. "lin beat me real good," Frost said. 
MeKnon and Pistick received 163 votes (60 percent) in the off-campus run-off. compared to the 110 votes (40 percent) polled by the ticket of St. Ed­ward's Hall junior George Smith and off-campus junior Mike Goodwin. 
McKnon said his ticket's vic­tory was a result of a "good organization" staffed by stu­dents that the candidates had met through their work in the Hall President's Council. 
"I really want to thank all of 
our supporters," McKeon said. 
According to McKeon, his ticket's lirst priority will be to combat off-campus crime. lie indicated that they supported 
Student Body President-elect Greg Butrus' plan to pressure 
copies of a letter and later a 
lawsuit via facsimile to the me­
dia before offering them to the 
church. He said he learned 
about the lawsuit when a re­
porter called him. 
"That gives me the impres­
sion you're playing dirty," said 
Tilton, who held a worn red 
bible during his testimony. 
Hose Ann Heecer, an assistant 
attorney general, said "we don't 
claim (violations) occurred, only 
that very serious allegations 
have been made and the 
attorney general has the duty to 
investigate." 
A temporary order has hin­dered Morales' legal team from probing fraud allegations against the church based in Farmers Branch, north of Dal­
las~·.,.......... 
· 
THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1992 
7:30 PM 
NOTRE DAME JOYCE A.C.C. 
All seats reserved: 
$9.50, $12.50, $13.50 
VIP seats available (no discounts) ~ SmS2.11Mlifti211111..-/SIIilrs&2u~arer! i l••~~tsll(lllly) ~ 

local bars to hire private secu-r~;:;;;;-:;;;;-;;;;;-:;;;;:;;;;:;:;;-1 ~ 
Televangelist tries to stop investigation 
rity guards. 
Neither Smith nor Goodwin could be reached for comment 
last night. 
(Service charge may apply) 
IY PHONE: Call (219) 272-7979 Use VISA or MasterCard IN PERSON: J.A.C.C. Box Office and all Ticketmaster Outlets. 
Q 
[ 

TIAA-CREF Parlli:ipant Hyu, Stl('t~rl s~,.,rity # 
0 }'r, ON• 
*Depending upon your institution's plan and the stateyou live in. CREF annuities are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc. For more complete information, including charges and expenses, calli 800 842-2733, Ext 5509 for a proapectua. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
---------~~~--~-----­
-

Thursday, March 5, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Voters send message to incumbents 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Among the returns (rom Tuesday's primary elections was an unmistakable message for con­gressional incumbents that sent shivers through the Capitol: No seat is safe. 
Voters in Maryland's 6th Dis­trict soundly rejected Rep. Bev­erly Byron, a conservative Democrat whose family first held the seat more than 50 years ago. 
"People are troubled, they're questioning, they're demanding answers," said Rep. Vic Fazio, D-Calif.. chairman of the House Democratic campaign commit­tee. "Incumbents who don't re­alize that are going to find themselves with problems." 
Tom Hattery, a member of the Maryland Legislature, trounced Byron 57-44 percent in the Democratic primary. Hattery mounted a professional campaign based heavily on anti-incumbent themes, particularly junket-taking and the congressional pay raise. 
"This ought to heighten the anxiety level within the House, because this could happen just about anywhere," said political newsletter publisher Charles Cook. 
But House Speaker Thomas Foley, D-Wash., dismissed any suggestion that Byron's race has significance for other law­makers.. · 
"All these races are decided primarily on local issues," he said, noting that many incum­bents challenged on the con­gressional pay raise or for be­ing out of touch with home have fought back and won. 
One of Byron's Maryland col­leagues, Rep. Steny Hoyer, said the anti-Washington theme had taken its toll in the race. But, he added, "I don't think you needed the Beverly Byron race to know that Washington's in trouble." 
President Bush's own drop in the polls and Congress' low standing in the public eye tes­tify amply to that phenomenon, 


•
Glasses in 1-3 hours...EVERYDAY! 

•
Best prices...EVERYDAY! 

• 
Best selection...over 1500 frame styles (including designer eyewear) 

• 
Our own glass and plastic laboratory to assure quality. 


OC&B.
P..tlcaI 
One. 

SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  
4121 S. Michigan  5327 Grape Road  
(U.S. 31 South)  ( 1 /2 Mi. S. of University Park Mall)  
291-9200  277-8121  

said Hoyer, a member of the Democratic leadership. 
"I think House members are pretty cognizant of the fact that this is not a year to take for granted," he said. 
Experts blamed Byron's loss on other factors, as well. She seemed to take the Democratic primary for granted, entering the fray late against a well-fi­nanced, experienced and savvy opponent. 
Hattery's pollster, Alan Se­crest, said Byron committed "what this year will be the most unforgivable of political sins: She went Washington." 
In one mailing, Hattery charged: "Byron voted against raising the minimum wage, and then voted herself a $39,000 pay raise." 
Byron was further weakened by her anti-abortion stance, which Hattery attacked, and by high unemployment in her western Maryland district. Se­crest's polls as early as last November showed only 41 per-
Politics 
continued from page 1 
against Clinton's expected strong Southern showing with victories at home in Mas­sachusetts and perhaps a sur­prise in Florida or Texas. Under this scenario, he could then gain the upper hand as the campaign goes on to the indus­trial states. 
"I just need to show the flag and get the message out" in the South, he said as he cam­paigned in South Carolina, which holds its primary on Sat­urday. "I've won five states, he's won one. So I think he has to stop my momentum." 
Campaigning among unem­ployed white collar workers in cent of Democrats favored her re-election. 

Hattery will face a stiff Re­publican challenge in the con­servative district in November. The GOP has nominated Roscoe Bartlett, a retired teacher. 
Ironically, Byron's district had escaped relatively unscathed in this year's redrawing of congressional lines; it had been largely preserved as a favor to her. 
Byron's husband, Goodloe Byron, served four terms in the House before his sudden death in 1978, when she succeeded him. His father and mother both had held the seat before him in the 1930s and 1940s. 
Appearing at a House Armed Services Committee hearing the day after her loss, Byron at one point wiped away a tear and sounded a bitter note. 
"The American public does not understand what we're do­ing," she said, a reference to her resistance to sudden, deep cuts in Pentagon personnel. 
Florida, he stuck to his mes­sage that revitalizing the econ­omy will require tax incentives to create jobs, and he opposes the middle class tax cut that Clinton favors as a waste of money. 
Aides to several candidates and neutral party observers said Brown's continuing pres­ence in the race would be a burden to Tsongas, since they tend to appeal to the same up­scale voters. 
Similarly, a withdrawal by Harkin or Kerrey would tend to help Clinton. 
Tsongas seemed to acknmyl­edge as much, when he said he saw no reasons for them to quit the race. "They've all won as many states or more as Bill Clinton," he said. 
I Reduce Reuse Recycle 
It's a Bird ! ! It's a Plane!! 
No, It's Clark's 21st!!! Love, 
X, Chet, Ben, and the rest of the Guys 
10306 E. Uve Oak Ave. Arcadia. CA 91007 
EXPLORE 1HE PHYSICAL. mOLOGICAI.. & SOClAL SCIENCES 
With Low-Cost Educational Software For IBM PC® & Compatible Computen;. 
Music & Gardening Software 
Also Available 

MAPLE LANE J BARBER SHOP I 
Serving the Notre Dame Community for Ovet 30 years 
2112 South Bend Ave. 
(all For A FrtC' 199'2 Stud tnt 

Appointments if desired 
Travtl catalog! 

272-6722 
Stanford auditor will enter politics 
STANFORD, Calif. (AP) ­The man who uncovered re­search overspending at Stan­ford University took a parting shot at school officials Wednesday, calling them "two-legged rodents" who lived high on "the federal dole." 
Paul Biddle, the on-campus research contract negotiator for the Office of Naval Re­search, had resigned to pur­sue a political career. The 47­year-old Republican, who is running for Congress, slammed the door on his way out. 
"Instead of looking for fraud at Stanford, I hope I can get out there and look for waste and bad management in other areas," Biddle said. ''I'm telling you, I learned a lot about waste and greed of individuals here." 
Stanford spokesman Larry Horton said he wouldn't re­spond to Biddle's leave-taking tirade, but said the school is looking forward to seeing Biddle's replacement come on campus to oversee federal re­search contracts. 
"We're looking forward to working with a member of the government who doesn't have a conflict," Horton said, referring to a suit Biddle filed on behalf of the government in an effort to force Stanford to repay overcharges. 
Biddle came to Stanford three years ago and immedi­ately became suspicious that the school had enjoyed a "cozy" relationship with his government predecessors, who hadn't audited Stanford's books in a decade. 
At first, Biddle's bosses ig­nored him, then put him on probation. But after opening its own investigation, the Navy demoted or transferred several workers who had overseen Stanford research contracts, and then gave Biddle a Navy civilian meri­torious award. 
Biddle, a religious man who drew criticism for comparing his work to a crusade, accused Stanford of overcharging the government $480 million during the 1980s to cover costs associ­ated with doing research. 
Auditors from the Defense Contract Audit Agency have told Congress they estimated the overcharges hit $230 mil­lion from 1981 through 1988. The investigation is continuing. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 

92-93 YEAR 
4·8 BEDROOMS 
FULLY FURNISHED 
KEGERATORS 
SECURITY SYSTEMS 
287·4989 


page 6 The Observer Thursday, February 5, 1992 
Companies, schools, agencies await Michelangelo virus 

NEW YOHK (AP) -Like a 

mugger hiding in the closet. the 
Michelangdo virus is lurking in 
personal computers nationwide 
awaiting Friday's trigger date. 
Companies, government 

agencies and schools are taking 
precautions. but experts said 
Wednesday not every computer 
ean be examined in time and 
the invader will do some dam­
age. 
"We can't go out and inspect 
every PC on every desk." said 
Andy Myers, a spokesman for 
American Telephone & Tele­
graph Co.. which has a quarter 
of a million personal comput­
P.rs. 
The phone company said it 
discovered a few infected PCs 
after distributing special soft­
ware to employees that can de­
teet and destroy the virus. 
Others believe the media at­
tention in recent days has 
blown the problem out of pro­
portion. 
"You're more likely to spill a cup of coffee on your keyboard than to get this virus," said J>P.ter Tippett, chairman of Cer­tus International Inc .. a maker of anti-virus software. 
"There's definitely hysteria." said Marianne Guntow. a com­puter analyst at the University of Chicago. "We get people that call up and are absolutely pan­icked. and after talking to them for a while we find out they have a Macintosh (computer) and aren't aiTectt>d at all." 
The virus has been found sit­ting dormant inside IBM-type personal computers awaiting the PC's internal dock to reach March 6, the birthday of the Italian Renaissance artist. Once the PC is turned on that day. the virus can destroy programs and data on the computer's hard disk. 
Viruses are rogue pieces of computer software devised by pranksters. They can enter a PC through software eontained on a diskette or transmitted to the computer over the phone from a eomputer "bulletin board" or other source. 
A survey of 300 major busi­nesses taken by Dataquest Inc.. a high-tech market research firm, found the infection rate for all computer viruses rose from 5.5 percent at the end of 1991 to 18.2 percent at the end of January. 
Some companies and organi­zations that are extremely cau­tious about what software is used in their PCs believe they 
will be spared a Michelangelo 
attack. 
"Cross my lingers. say a few 
prayers -I think we'll come 
through this one clean." said 
Debra Kristopson, chief com­
puter executive for the Stouffer 
hotel chain. 
But others believe they will be 
victims despite safeguards. 
"We're trying to gear up for 
the worst so we can deal with it 
if it happens," said the Univer­
sity of Chicago's Gun tow. 
Already, numerous compa­
nies, schools and governments 
have reported discovery of the 
virus on some computers. 
Among them are the state of 
Nevada. the U.S. Agriculture 
Department and the San Jose 
(Calif.) Mercury News newspa­
per. 
Estimates of how many of the 
50 million PCs in North Amer­
ica are infected range widely, 
from a few thousand to mil­
lions. 
In what may be an attempt to profit from disaster, some companies that make anti-viral software have been heavily promoting their products. The campaign has been successful. 
"We are utterly, completely, totally. 100 percent sold out." said Lee Rock, an employee of the Egghead Software store in downtown Boston. "The media whipped people up into a frenzy and they are storming the gates." 
The CompUSA superstore in Dallas said it had sold out of anti-viral programs, too, but got another shipment Wednesday. 
John Vogt, who bought a copy at the Dallas store. said it was annoying to have to spend $100 to protect his computer data. But, he said, "I just think it's part of today's reality." 
The Computerwarehouse chain is offering a free anti-vi­ral program to people who drop by with a blank diskette to hold the software. 
Hundreds responded to the offer at the Computerwarehouse in Cherry Hill. N.J., said marketing rep­resentative Greg Persun. 
"The phones are ringing off the wall," Persun said. "And they're just swimming in here. They're a little bit frightened." 
Some computer experts be­lieve the attention the virus is receiving could lead to greater precautions by computer users to stop the spread of all strains 


Serving America. 
Dick's Marathon 
.........................._...,.........,..,.......,... 
ONE nlD TOW TO OUiliiTAnote ._...AIIl 
FREE (S4s.oo) Ji'llD
.................._.......... 
ou--•as. ...... -__............_ 

of the invaders, which number more than 4,000. 
"The virus problem is going to get worse and worse and worse. The only way to fix the problem is for people to get 

II you see news happening, call The Observer at 239-5303. 
Money
for 


r.Brea 

Our Spring Break Loan is back by popular demand 
(probably because It's easler than getting money from your parents!) 
• 
Only 12% APR fixed rate 

• 
$1 00 minimum, $500 maximum loan amount 

• 
Deferred Payments 

• 
Students with good credit or no credit qualify 


No co-signer Is needed. Bring In your student I.D. 
0 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 • Independent of the University 
proper security measures in their machines," said Winn Schwartau, an author and lec­turer on computer viruses. 
But others believe the attfm­tion could also compound the 
Michelangelo overwrites all data on a hard disk with 
AP/Willlam J. Castello 
problem. 

"All it's going to due is en­eourage these people that write these kinds of programs." said Andy Seybold. a Dataquest con­
sultant. 

\ 
~ ~ ~--­
Business 
Thursday, March 5, 1992 page 7 
Factory orders for durable goods rise 

WASHINGTON IAPl-Orders more than three years, rose to U.S. factories rose 0.4 per­2.2 pp,rcent. even more than Cfmt in January, tlw third in­the original 1.5 percent esti­crease in four months. led by a mate reported last week. big jump in usually nxpensive, They totaled $120.3 billion. long-lasting durable goods. the up from $117.8 billion a month government said today. earlier. A 5.0 percent decline 
Both Federal RP-serve Chair­in durable goods orders had man Alan Greenspan and a pulled the overall total down in survey of purchasing December. managers have said that new But new orders for non­orders continued to grow in durable goods, including food February. a sign the and textiles, fell 1.4 percent manufacturing economy following a 2.3 percent decline continued to ease out of the in December. It was the first recession. consecutive decrease since five 
Factory orders are a straight declines ending in barometer of manufacturing March 1991. industry plans. Continued Non-durable orders totaled growth could mean higher $114.7 billion, down from production and an increase in $116.3 billion a month earlier. jobs in a sector representing Industrial machinery and about 20 percent of the equipment orders posted the nation's economy. largest gain, up 6. 9 percent 
Thl-l Commerce Department after a 3.2 percent decline the said orders for .durable and previous month. non-durable goods totaled Transportation orders were $235.0 billion. up from $234.1 up 1.1 percent following a billion in December. Decem­huge 13.7 percent plunge in ber's 3.7 percent drop was December. Excluding the trimmed from a 3.8 percent transportation category, orders decline first estimated but re­inched up 0.3 percent. mained the largest decrease sincp, orders fell 6.2 percent in But orders for electronic and November 1990. other electrical equipment 
Factory orders had peaked dropped 5.1 percent, wiping at $254.0 billion in October out a 3.6 percent advance in 1990. December. Orders for primary 
Orders for durable goods. metals also fell, down 1.0 per­items such as airplanes and cent following a 7. 9 percent automobiles intended to last drop in December. 
Addis discusses Brazilian firms 
By MOLLIE MUDD ible specialization, she said. growth." Business Writer Mass production never mate­There were problems in the rialized in Brazil. but it was early 1960s, a period of political 
"The Peaceful Coexistence of "pursued as a model of devel­and economic unrest in Brazil. Mass and Flexible-Production opment by proponents of the Addis said. "As growth rates in Practices in the Brazilian Motor industry," Addis said. "In the the rnotor vehiCle plummeted Vehicle Industry" was discussed struggle to replicate the model. and inflation rates climbed, the Tuesday afternoon in the l-Ies­important variations emerged, industry was singled out as a burgh Center. The talk was variations that have shaped fu­villain fueling inflation." At this sponsored by the Helen Kellogg ture choices," Addis said. time, all firms, "particularly Institute for International A chronology of the Brazilian national firms suffered under Studies. motor vehicle industry was stop and go macroeconomic 
The speaker, Caren Addis, is a given in its efforts to replicate credit restrictions," Addis said. faculty fellow of the Kellogg the U.S.' mass-production of The recessionary Institute and is visiting from the automobiles and its develop­environm-ent of the 1980s Department of Political Science mental impact in the Brazilian encouraged the pressure to at the Massachusetts Institute industry. export. "Firms began to adopt of Technology. Addis has A system where the some of the international received a Fulbright-Bayes "assemblers would produce management techniques Research grant and an OAS fel­only the principal components pioneered by the Japanese lowship for her doctoral re­and subcontract the rest to a automotive industry, but with a search in Brazil. thriving national auto parts Brazilian twist," Addis said. 
The talk consisted of a theo­sector" was then established, There was an increased level of retical introduction of the Addis said. The industry offi­vertical integration and Brazilian motor vehicle industry cials "dreamed of implanting assemblers reorganized their and a case study of its progress mass production in Brazil, but factories into decentralized since its institution in the 1950s by approving so many assem­production departments. "The focusing on the aspects of mass­blers and neglecting to regulate hierarchy of suppliers will production and flexibility within model runs, they precluded the continue and mass-production the industry. very strategy they so desired," relations will persist among the 
"Organizational practices in Addis said. majority of supplie,rs and the industry combined both The industry is seen as a assemblers," Addis said. mass-and flexible-production "suppliers' victory," Addis said, "In this revisionist view of practices," Addis began. because assemblers were economic development, critical "Because of the proliferation of forced to produce in Brazil, junctures were not marked by models, production levels never which gave a domestic market the increasing capacity of state reached internationally-ac­for suppliers. "The combina­institutions to shape large-scale cepted economies of scale, tion of protected domestic accumulation. Rather, critical although firms tried to extend markets and rigid local content junctures emerged as production runs as much as laws meant that assemblers industrialists, state officials, possible," Addis said. "To ac­had to give the suppliers assis­and intellectuals struggled to commodate the proliferation of tance," Addis said. The condi­advance their competing visions models, firms used general tions within the industry cre­of industrialization and recon­purpose rather than dedicated ated "an environment cile them with the constraints of machinery." an attempt of flex-conducive to the suppliers' contingent events," Addis said. 
Debate on health care proposal rages 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Health of the name unless it meets two "To believe that kind of finan­and Human Services Secretary basic tests: It must guarantee cial credit is going to be suffi­Louis Sullivan defended Presi­coverage for every American cient incentive for working dent Bush's health care pro­and it must put reasonable families ... is farfetched." posals WednP.sday as Senate limits on health care costs," Sen. Brock Adams, D-Wash., Democrats assailed the plan for Kennedy said. "The adminis­strongly challenged Sullivan. neither controlling costs nor tration's plan passes neither Adams said the value of the tax assuring universal coverage. test." deduction would be consumed 
Sullivan contended that Kennedy chided Sullivan for by higher doctor and hospital Bush's package of tax incentives the Bush administration's fail­fees unless strict cost-contain­and modest insurance ure to submit a bill containing ment steps are taken. regulation would help families the president's proposals. A Republican, Sen. James Jef­pay for coverage and allow At the heart of the proposals fords of Vermont, asked Sulli­most of the 36 million people are tax credits for the poor, re­van how the administration without health coverage to ob­fundable as vouchers for the would pay for the estimated tain it. purchase of $3,750 worth of $35 billion cost of its tax mea­
"We trust the market to work. health insurance. For middle sures. Sullivan said the admin­with the president's proposals," elass families, Bush's plan istration was counting on fi­Sullivan said. would offer a $3,750 tax deduc­nancing much of it through 
He underwent hostile ques­tion -which Kennedy said savings in administrative costs, tioning before the Senate Labor would be worth just $563 to an eliminating unnecessary medi­and Human Hesources Commit­average family in the 15 per­cal procedures and other mea­tee, where the chairman, Sen. cent marginal tax bracket. He sures. Edward Kelllledy, D-Mass., and said that would barely cover Kennedy asked Sullivan to other Democrats support more one-tenth of a family's health guarantee that the administra­swel-lping reforms that would care costs. tion would insist on such bene­apply strict cost controls and "The value of the president's fits as a condition for insurance assure coverage for everyone. program to middle-income fam­companies to be eligible to 
"No health reform is worthy ilies is $563," Kennedy said. receive the tax vouchers. 

Bentsen says Bush has lost focus on legislation due to Buchanan 
WASIIINGTON (API -A ma­again turn his attention to 
passed the House and will be 1992 campaign," Bentsen said. jor part of the Bush adminis­middle-class tax relief. considered in different form by "He's turning his back on key tration's decision-making ma­Bentsen. who was his party's the Senate next week. policy decisions at a time the chinery has been put on hold vice presidential nominee in Earlier in the day, Senate country can ill afford it." because of Patrick Buchanan's 1988, noted Buchanan has Majority Leader George Meanwhile, Senate challenge to the president, Sen. taken roughly one-third of the Mitchell. D-Maine, said of Bush: Republican Leader Bob Dole of J.Joyd Bentsen said Wednesday. votes from Bush in three He­"He's in such a state of panic .... Kansas said the Democrats' bill 
Bentsen. D-Texas, said Bush publican primaries. Mr. Buchanan has struck a is just part of "their phony is so intent on pacifying the "Hight now. all his (Bush's) nerve and it's clear the presi­class-warfare campaign.' right wing of the Hepublican efforts, the entire machinery of dent doesn't know how to deal "Unfortunately, it's a war party that he has abandoned a the executive branch of the with it." where nobody wins, and every major budget agreement and government of the United Buchanan assails the fact taxpayer loses," Dole said. "It's appears willing to block a tax States, is focused on one thing Bush broke a 1988 campaign the kind 'of election-year cut for middle-income families. and one thing only: enticing this promise by signing a big 1990 offensive that's even been re­
"To a great extent. the fate of tiny faction of voters away from deficit-reduction agreement jected by the Democrats' own
Lloyd Bentsen

this tax legislation will be Pat Buchanan." Bentsen said. that raised taxes. For the first presidential frontrunner, Paul decided in the Republican pri­"To a great extent, this tax Bentsen's remarks were part time, the president this week Tsongas." maries of Super Tuesday next legislation -for that matter, all of a Democratic response to said he had made a mistake -Although Tsongas has criti­week." Bentsen said in a speech policy making in the White Bush's attacks on the party's at least a political mistake -in cized the idea of cutting taxes to the National Press Club. If House -is being held hostage efforts to give middle-income doing so. ... this year, he also has proposed Bush finally vanquishes to the political civil war raging families a tax cut at the expense "The president's mistake is the same kind of tax increase Buchanan. Bentsen implied, within the Republican party," of the well-to-do. Bush has said not in the 1990 budget agree­on the wealthy that Bush is perhaps the president will once Bentsen said. he will veto the bill, which has ment but in the conduct of his fighting. 
Viewpoint 
PageS Thursday, March 5, 1992 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board Editor-in-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez News Editor ....................... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ..... .Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor •••.••••••••••••..Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ............... David Dieteman Production Manager ........... .Jay Colucci Accent Editor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor •........• .Andrew McCloskey OTS Director ..................... Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willen Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus lhrough leners, is encouraged.  
 

EDITORIAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pangborn should serve as a model SUB can learn for a co-ed Notre Dame campus 
Dear Editor: coeducational housing. The coeducational housing has
from big losses 

We write concerning the country's best prospective come. We must now demon­movement to convert Pangborn students notice Notre Dame's strate Notre Dame's real 
The Student Senate on Monday called into ques­

Hall to a coeducational dormi­eccentric stance on the issue as commitment to lasting values 
tion the conduct of the Student Union Board (SUB} 

tory. Over the past month sev­well as the discontent student instead of its fear of accepting 
in sponsoring two big-name acts within the last 

eral students have met in an ef­body. This hurts the school. change. We can no longer cling 
week that lost over $50,000 of the student body's 

fort to form a strategy which Mandatory single sex dorms to archaic rules with shallow money. • . 
will help us reach this goal. create an atmosphere of sepa­foundations at the expense of a
Accusations were made about SUB s followmg of 

This issue affects all the stu­rateness between men and healthy educational environ­
proper procedures in obtaining approval for T~e 

dents of Notre Dame. women at the university. ment.
Cult/Lenny Kravitz concert Feb. 25 and the Howie 

It determines the depth of Starting from their living Moreover, coeducational
Mandel performance March 1. SUB has been 

campus understanding between quarters, students become housing or any other improve­
charged with failing to obtain the Student Senate's 

men and women as well as the accustomed to the idea that the ments in this university will re­
approval for pledging tens of thousands of dollars 

fullness of our education. The sexes cannot live to­sult from student impetus, or
for the acts. 

students of Notre Dame have a gether-their gender poses an they will not happen at all. We
Bureaucratic struggling aside, it seems clear that 

vital obligation to act in their unbreachable barrier to peace­stand to benefit the most from 
an important issue to be addressed involves SUB's 

own best interests and press for ful co-existence. any strengthening of Notre 
use ofpoor judgment. 

the success of this initiative. In addition, parietals rein­Dame. From the offices beneath
It is obvious that something went awry so~e­

Let us outline why Notre force this notion by forbidding the gold topped sanctuary, co­
where between deciding upon the acts and puttmg 

Dame needs this kind of hous­members of the opposite sex to ed and single sex dorms look 
on the shows. But what should the fiasco tell SUB? 

ing option if it hopes to progress remain under the same roof for the same.
First, the organization needs to !llore closely ex­

in the years ahead and why the eleven hours out of every day. Without student pressure, the
amine the acts it wants to brmg to campus. 

responsibility for enacting this In no way do these policies pre­administration will not bother
Although Board Manager Lynn Ramsay said The 

proposal lies in the hands of the pare us for life beyond the main to change the regulations in a
Cult and Lenny Kravitz were among the top ch9ices 

students themselves. circle. Hather, they perpetuate manner which satisfies the stu­
on a student survey. ticket sales showed ·otherwise. 

First, important for Notre sexist attitudes and curb op­dents. We can sit back as bu­
Only 900 students were willing to pay $12 to see 

Dame's long term outlook, all portunities for natural interac­reaucrats extend DuLac to the
the two acts, indicating that perhars they were not 

top universities except Notre tion. twelve volume edition and regu­
so much in the mainstream after al . 

Dame have a coeducational Unknown to many students, late us into undergraduate
Location and timing need to be considered as w~ll. 

housing option. In U.S. News the administration of Notre monotons designed to fund the
It seems strange that SUB would plan two maJor 

and World Report's college Dame recognizes the sense of research of the really important 
events within a week of each other. 

ranking of top twenty five co-residentiality. In a number of people. But, we can also voice
What is even more disturbing is that both shows 

schools, the ranking with by far occasions over the past decade, our concerns and get results. 
were held within two weeks of mid-semester break, 

the most widespread credibility, it has looked into the matter. Not task forces or committees,
a time when many students were studying for ex­

every school in Notre Dame's Each time, it has affirmed the but results. We have as much of 
ams and conserving money for vacation. 

category has coeducational merits of co-ed housing on this a say as we push for. I have
SUB has pushed for larger-venue concerts for 

housing. campus but has not seen us, the students of Notre
years Yet when the organization did manage to se­

Mind you, Notre Dame has implemented the system. Dame, berated in this very
cure ·the J.A.C.C., the act could not even 1111 the 

not received a ranJc.ing in two Meeting with the residents of newspaper as ignorant and
arena to 30 percent capacity. 

years. Also, except for Notre Morrissey Hall on Feb. 3, apathetic on several occasions.
While the Howie Mandel show was equally unprof­

Dame, no Catholic school in the President Monk Malloy indi­Let us prove our resolve. Write
itable. it was nonetheless more appropriate in 

top three hundred schools in cated that a lack of student to The Observer, Scholastic and
Stepan Center 

the nation denies their students initiative constitutes a main the Office of Student Affairs.
SUB can learn from this experience. Other ven­

this option because Catholic reason that co-ed housing has Vote. Make a difference.
tures this year-like the BoDeans concert and Joe 

values encourage positive in­not received more attention. It
Clark-have been successful primarily because they 

teraction between the sexes. seems that student pessimism Stephen Murphy 
were smaller. Instead of putting themselves, and the 

And 80 percent of Notre could prove the only real bar­Michael Cain
student body's money, out on a limb, SUB should 

Dame students in a March 1990 rier to change. Pangborn Hall 
remember what worked and what didn't. Thinking 

referendum voiced their With support from every tier March 2, 1992
small might just help them hit big. 

support of optional of the university, the time for 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE Of THE DAY 
THt (JfJCJ< fXJN7 1</NI? OF A G/1\16eR ROGeRS 
THt PRINTA05 5HOUWMAK/3 

W!-flfrtVtR. Y(){f
/UJKCLASSY 7HIN6-5TYU5H, VI~Cicv.:>. 
MAY&
P(3()PU3 THINK YaJ'R& 1?/FP&R.­

.A6REl3 WITH
t/V{}()(3ff, KNCW BUTWITHA 7WCH OFWW6HTI­WITH A
/WT, 5f?ee!AL-. Y(}(JWANT7H8M 

MYCIJNCCPT 7
WHitT I'M S4YING~ Nb95.' l7HINK 71iJlT'5 fi()W YaJ 
PUSH·UP
m~ueve w REAUYARE 


'Try not! Do or not.
f,(JANT 7D P051T!ON YOU/?SetF. 

BRA ... \ -"'-'-=-·.....
a/HAT YOU 5AY YOUARC-A 
/Ji6/TIIr1A7t e5COI<T 513R.Vte&.' 
\
\ 

There is no try.' 
Yoda 
Return to the Jedi, and submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint

Thursday, March 5, 1992 Page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
My personal thank you to all the boxers who participated in the Bengal Mission Bout Tournament. To the ten cham­pions ... Congratulations! You earned your place in the win­ner's circle. To the other 66 boxers ... Well done! You may have come up a point or two short on the judges' score card but, you most certainly were not a loser. The Bengal Mission Bouts has no losers. 
At Notre Dame. boxing is more than a sport. In a way, it's an extension of the classroom. 
The vast majority of our boxers have never before been in the ring. They learned the fundamentals from volunteer coaches and upperclassmen, 
Many lessons are learned inside Bengal Bouts ring 
participated in labs (sparring), and submitted to a rigorous physical training program. 
The exam schedule? Well. that was posted outside the boxing room three days before the tournament started. 
What did they learn? A great deal more than the art of btlx­ing. They learned about them­selves, their strengths, their weaknesses. They learned to deal with adversity under pres­sure. How to defend them­selves. How to throw the first punch when required. 
There are no special teams in boxing. Everyone must know how to block. parry, and duck the blows as well as jab, hook, and throw the combination. You are on your own in the ring. No 

Saint Mary's must nurture and safeguard its integrity 
Problems face School of Architecture 
Dear Editor: 
.lust a note to share with you and with the family of St. Mary's College/Holy Cross sis­ters, my deep concern over Sr. Mary Turgis and the Renovation Committee's plan for their church. 
Must adults in our church continue their own personal agenda (camouflaged as "focusing on the community") of de-emphasizing thus disrespect of the Holy Eucharist? I am terribly disappointed and saddened to see this insidious (albeit, perhaps well­intentioned) process occurring on our Lady's campus. 
I am aware that Vatican II. a beautiful chapter in our Church. continues to be imple­mented. Good. However, we must also be clear-eyed follow­ers to be watchful of turns that lead others away from Him and towards a liturgy of egocen­trism. 
Many well-meaning people, women in this instance, believe they will "help us" by putting away many focuses, i.e. God IS presPnt under the outward ap­pearance of bread and wine, and by showing us their own "much better/more contempo­rary" approach. 
If we, the people, are in their view, not foresighted or pro­something-or-other, then they will do the changes and impose them on us themselves... they like to believe they are more enlightened as to what is for our own good. 
I trust someone, yourself perhaps, will speak forcefully in His name. Many of the students are friends of mine and of my family through my daughter. I treasure them each. I already know from them the battle they have found elsewhere with St. Mary's staff over some of the staff's lack of support and worse, the undermining of the students' pro-life efforts on campus. 
For heaven's sake, literally, a beautiful college needs to safe guard her integrity and her Catholic roots/heritage of ethics, values, and of course doctrine! I hold the highest re­gard for Catholic education. Let us together diligently nurture and protect it. Thank you. I welcome your comments. 
Jane L. Hoffman Cincinnati, OH Feb.27,1992 

Professors call Colloquy an 'ineffective body' 
Dear Editor: 
We. the undersigned tenured mPmbers of the Philosophy Department. believe that the president's Colloquy for the Year 2000 is an i111~ffective body for faculty consultation and delib~ration. and so have de­clined to participate in the Colloquy's scheduled meeting with the department. 
Neil Delaney Professor Michael DePaul Associate Professor Michael Detlefsen Professor Thomas P. Flint 
substitutions, no time outs. Above all, no excuses. No rationalizing that someone else's missed block or tackle may have altered the outcome. 
What's it like to be alone in the ring with someone trying to hit you? Frightful. But going it alone against an opponent bent on pummeling you can teach you a lot about yourself. Those who can control the panic and maintain boxing discipline usu­ally come out on top. 
But they are really not alone. Since all the boxers train to­gether, usually pairing off to help each other with glove drills, tremendous friendships are developed among the box­ers. 
During sparring drills, it is 
Professors Ralph Mcinerny Grace Professor Vaughn McKim Thomas V. Morris Associate Professors David O'Connor Associate Professor Philip L. Quinn O'Brien Professor Kenneth Sayre Professor James P. Sterba Professor Eleonore Stump Professor March 3, 1992 

Have something to say? 
The Viewpoint page depends on commentaries from its readers. Write down your thoughts and send them to: 
Viewpoint 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to Professor Nadia Alhasani's letter (The Observer, Feb. 25, 1992). 
I am disturbed that her re­sponse does not address the concerns raised by Katie MacNeil and Brad Mayer but instead takes the opportunity to focus on her own feelings of exclusion and not being men­tioned as a "non-Classical" and different voice in the School of Architecture. 
In fact, each professor in the School of Architecture has an individual architectural view­point. Some can be grouped by similar allegiance to a certain architectural style, yet each in­dividu.al gives his or her particular expression. 
The problem I see in the School of Architecture is not a lack of diversity but a coherent educational curriculum. Katie MacNeil and Brad Mayer's goal was to ask the question publicly "How does a Classical educa­tion teach?" As taught it is not clear how our present program teaches the principles of archi­tecture. 
Yesterday, Feb. 29, students met in the School of Architec­ture to discuss the array of is­sues brought up by recent arti­cles in The Observer and Common Sense. 
It was clear that many stu­dents are asking the same question as Brad and Katie. Brad, a fifth year student, asked what "The point and fo­cus was in his education of the use of paradigms in Classical architecture." A freshman ex­plained his predicament: in a quite common for the hittee to congratulate the hitter on "nice punch." Or for the hitter to say ''I'm sorry" after landing a rather hard blow. 

Are the rewards worth it? Winners share the spotlight with no one. They are the champions and receive Notre Dame letter jackets with a gold glove emblazoned with the word "champ." Those jackets will be worn proudly well into the warmer months when jack­ets are no longer needed. 
But that's not all. Everyone feels the satisfaction that they have done something very spe­cial by their donation of time, toil, and sometimes blood for a noble cause. There is a pride in knowing that they have never 
week he has to decide whether or not to stay in architecture. 
He does not understand the point of the freshman level class and does not have any idea of what the next four years will bring. The Bulletin of Information is little help. It has not yet been rewritten to ex­plain the new ideas Chairman Smith brought in 1989. 
I still do not know myself what those new ideas are; he has said that they are new and radical and that we must take a "leap of faith." 
The University has a respon­sibility to provide its students with an education; when I sign my checks to pay my tuition, I am making a contract with Notre Dame. Any time I ask the question, "What are you teach­ing me?" I could expect a co­herent answer to this question. The fact that so many students in the School of Architecture are continuously asking the same question shows there is a problem. 
Creative and experimental ar­chitects in the professional world express their theories with the buildings they con­struct. They are designing with bricks, and if they are unsuc­cessful, what does the brick care? The School of Architecture, I feel, is designing with its students. 
It must realize that every time an educational theory is unsuc­cessful it effects the students. Maybe the faculty gets to try again with next year's students, but we don't get another chance. 
The School of Architecture is been in better physical condi­tion. 
And not least of all, they have been exposed to another aspect of the Notre Dame experience . ...service. If they are like those that have gone before, they will give back ten-fold what they have received and the world will be a better place because of them. 
Coaching the gold corner and being associated with such fine young men was an honor and privilege for me. I felt more pride and self satisfaction at these bouts than I did twenty­six years ago when I won my jacket. 
Pat Farrell Notre Dame '66 March 2, 1992 

a part of the University of Notre Dame. We are not like Walter Gropius' Bauhaus, a private school of design. Frankly, I am quite concerned about the School of Architecture breaking from the College of Engineering to become its own college. 
I am not convinced that we need to make that break right now when there are so many other issues needing-to be ad­dressed. I am also concerned with the emergence of a sense of exclusiveness that is begin­ning to appear. 
There are many people be­sides Professor Alhasani who have felt excluded at one time or another. It was frustration and "exclusion" which prompted students to go to The Observer to express their views. And probably a feeling of "exclusion" prompting this freshman student to consider transferring to another school of architecture. 
Finally, I guess Gloria Sarna, the Director of the Rome Program until 1990, probably also felt pretty "excluded" when Chairman Smith walked into her office and said he would not renew her contract. 
Not even the signatures of practically everyone who was taught by her in a letter stating her considerable ability as a teacher, meant much. It would be unthinkable that she was fired-considered disposable-for a theory that is yet to be defined coherently. 
Amy Shiber University of Notre Dame Architecture Student March 1, 1992 
Associate Professor Alfred J. Freddoso 

P.o~ Box Q
Professor Lynn S. Joy Associate Professor 

Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Alasdair Macintyre Ed Manier 

·I 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Accent 

Observer photos/ Sean Farnan 
Notre Dame sophomores Mike and Matt Arnone's identities are often comfused because of their twin status. 


Students speak OlUt about having twin image c)n campus 
By MEREDITH people sometimes thought that Perhaps it is this doseness Mike was just joking around. that leads many twins to feel as
MCCULLOUGH 
It can get difficult. if they think alike. 
Accent Writer 
"PeoplP arP sometimes timid As far as twins go, Tim said approaching (twins)," accord­that he thinks that he and MikeIt happens to the best of us. 
ing to Rhett. "It's hard to talk are "unique" in that they don't
Som1!one you don't rncognizr, 
to someonf' when you're not really talk to each other. but
grPets you with a friendly 
sure of their name. It makes it they "just kind of know." he
hello. An acquaintancn can't 
harder to make friends." said, "Our feelings and beliefs
nHnemb1~r your namn or ralls 
But according to most of lhe are pretty identical." 
you hy somPone else. In a 
twins in the Notre Dame/Saint Mike and Matt said that they
heatPd discussion a flustered 
Mary's community, being a like to stay away from twin
parent calls you by your 
twin has been a positive stereotypes, especially the idea
siblings nanw. 
experience. that twins have some kind of
It happens to the bnst of us, 
It's like having a "best friend" telepathy, but agreed that they
but for twins, it happens all the 
who has been there since lhe tnnd to think in similar ways. 
time. 
beginning, explained Matt "We are so alike that we

"It helps to have acting skills ....
Sophomores Joe and Jon Ross are Notre Dame's most visible twins. 
Arnone who lives in Stanford. often say things at the same
when you're a twin," said Mike 

"I never had that feeling of time, but not anymore than think alike, the similarities "We room tog1~ther mostly
Arnorw. a sophomore living in Alumni Hall who explained being alone, of being different other best friends say things at seem to end there. because we don't have any from other siblings," agreed the same time." "There's always one twin conflicts of' intf~n~st. WP don't
that people confuse him with 

Mikn. "But its not a done type While thfl casual observer that ends up being dominant. have habits that bug Parh
his identical twin, Malt, on a 
thing," he added quickly. may be immediately drawn to

daily basis. "People come up to That's me." said Henee. ''I'm other." nxplairwd HhPtt. "It 
"There is a bond you fenl similarities between twins, bossy." makes dorm life both Pasier
me on tlw Quad (aftPr seeing Matti and say 'I saw you today with a twin. Very fnw normal especially betwepn identical Tim was less quirk to find and hardPr." l·:asinr in that siblings have the bond WP twins. the differences arp iwt differences between himself they each havn an "automatic
and you walkPd right by me."' 

have. Nobody is as much like always so easy to spot. and his brother. "Mike is more friPnd," but harder sinrP
It ran gt•t ronfusing. 

Hlwtt Olsl'hrwr. who lives in you-it's really someth' ng Physically there am few dif­meticulous in studies. a little pnople tPrHl not to approad1 KePrutn with twin brother spPdal." Mike continued. fprences. True, Mike Trainor is morr. organized," lw said "(but) tlw two as mtwh as tlwy might "It's a lot like having anotlwr a little taller than Tim and we really don't have a lot of if tlwy WPrP not twins.
Scott, Pxplained the difficulty 
brotlwr or sister. but closm," Scott and Hhett have diffpn•nt

that Air Fori'!' HOT<: officers differences at all." WhilP Matt and MikP WI'I'P 
said Scott. "They (twins) think hat sizes, but they are In fact. Mike and Tim an~ in­giwn thP opportunity to liw to­
expPriPn!'Pd during inspections 

last yPar. Sincn HOTC nanw a lot like you-act like you in "identical." volved in many of thn same ac­gethe,r their frPshnwn yPar,similar situations." Differences seem to be more tivities, ineluding dwPrleading tlwy dPI'idPd against it.
tags only offPrPd a last nanw, 

Such a bond is not limited to pronounced when it comes to and the boxing elub, share Matt said lw didn't want !'ol­
tlw first question usually thrown at the twins was. idPntical twins, though. Becky personality. many of the same friends, and lege to bn an PXtPnsion of high and Hence Martini, fraternal Hlwtt said he considers him­evPn room togethPr. school whnre pPople "triPd to
"Which orw aw you?" It !'an get Pmbarrassing. twins from Saint Marv's. spJf' "more outgoing," more "Since we only have !me car. consider us as a unit." Living Wlwn Tim Trainor, an off­echoed the above comments. rnady to do "crazy stuff." it is good that WP live tog~~tlwr. apart. Matt said they know 
Although the two have both "lie gives me a bad image," It's good for our schedulns," twice as many peopln and "livP
campus sPnior, transfnred to 

an older sister and an old1~r said Scott laughing. Tim said. "It's usually okay as two totally diffnrent livns." 
NotrP Damn from the 

Uniwrsity of Massachusetts his brothPr. Becky said that sh1~ is "We 'vn worked hard all our long as we don't g<'t into fights, It is difficult somPtinws. eloser to her twin than to tlw lives to be different personality which doPsn't happen very though. lw admittPd. "\Vp can
sophomorP ymtr, he said that 

otlwr members of her family. wise," said Hhett. uftnn."
pnopll' ol'tPn didn't believe that go for WPPks without snPing lw was Mikp's twin brother. "Slw (Hence) was always my According to Beeky. she and Hhett and Seott said thny lind each otlwr." Playing tPIPphonP Until tlwy got usPd to thP idea bnst friend." said Becky. "She lhmee an~ "basically night and living together convenient as tag can sonwtinws Ill' "a pain," was always there." day." Whi11~ they find that tlwy
of two Trainor's on campus, wnll. hP addPd. 


NBA STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS COLLEGE R£SU1 .,~ 
EAST Amherst 83, Anna Marla 79 
EASTERN CONFERENCE WALES CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Diviaion Patrick Diviaion W L Pet. w L T Pts CF G\ Connecticut 85, Syracuse 78 Delaware 72, Drexel 66
New York 36 23 .6t0 NY Rangers 42 21 4 88 269 215 Duquesne 71, West Virginia 64
Boston 33 26 .559 3 Washington 37 23 6 80 276 227 Fredonia St. 84, Rochester Tech 67
Philadelphia 28 31 .475 8 Now Jersey 34 22 9 77 245 207 Maine 55, New Hampshire 39
Miami 27 32 .458 9 Pittsburgh 29 27 8 66 273 247 Massachusetts 96, Rhode Island 88
New Jersey 27 32 .458 9 NY Islanders 27 30 7 61 232 249 Rutgers 74, St. Joseph's 68
Washington 19 40 .322 17 Philadelphia 24 30 11 59 194 2t2 Temple 92, George Washington 70
Orlando 14 46 .233 22 1/2 Vermont 64, Hartford 51Adama Diviaion SOUTH
Central Diviaion x-Montreal 38 22 8 84 226 t67 Alabama 84, Mississippi 83Chicago 48 12 .BOO Boston 30 26 9 69 221 223 David Lipscomb 97, Lambuth 74
Cleveland 38 19 .667 8 1/2 Buffalo 24 30 11 59 232 246 Duke 98, Clemson 97
Detroit 35 25 .583 13 Hartford 20 32 11 51 200 225 Florida 79, Kentucky 62
Atlanta 29 29 .500 18 Quebec t3 41 10 36 t89 259 Lea 122. Christian Brothers 115
Milwaukee 26 32 .448 21 Memphis St. 68, Tulane 67Indiana 27 34 .443 21 1/2 CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Mississippi St. 77, Auburn 70
Charlotte 22 36 .379 25 Norrie Divialon w L T Pts CF G\ 
North Carolina 79, Georgia Tach 75 Seton Hall 90, Miami 82, OT · WESTERN CONFERENCE Detroit 36 20 9 8t 271 209 Midwaat Diviaion St. Louis 3t 26 9 7t 233 218 South Carolina 77, Vanderbilt 68 
South Florlda 78, Southern Miss. 72 T annessaa 67. Georgia 66 
W L Pet. Chicago 28 24 13 69 209 195 
Utah 40 21 .656 Minnesota 27 33 5 59 205 227 San Antonio 35 24 .593 4 Toronto 24 36 6 54 
196 244 MIDWEST Houston 31 28 .525 8 
Ball St. 63, Toledo 58 Cent. Michigan 71. Ohio U. 62
Denver 20 39 .339 19 Smythe Diviaion Cleveland St. 93, Youngstown St. 70
Dallas 17 41 .293 21 1/2 Vancouver 3 5 2 1 9 79 237 199 Edgewood 76, Marian, Wis. 74
Minnesota 11 46 .193 27 Los Angeles 30 24 t3 73 247 245 248 249 Franklin 118, Grace ttO
Edmonton 30 30 7 67 

Hastings 94, Midland Lutheran 80
Pacific Diviaion Winnipeg 26 29 t1 63 202 208 Indiana 64, Iowa 60Ponland 41 18 .695 Calgary 25 3t 9 59 237 251 Indiana-Southeast 85, lnd.-South Bend
Golden State 39 18 .684 1 SanJose 14 46 5 33 170 290 Phoenix 38 22 .633 3 1/2 x-cllnched playolf bonh. 74 
Indianapolis 84, N. Kentucky 78
Seattle 33 26 .559 8 Tueaday'a Game• Iowa St. 70, Kansas 66
LA Lakors 31 28 .525 10 Winnipeg 4, Detroit 3 Marquette 73, DePaul 65LA Clippers 30 28 .517 10 1/2 Hanford 4, Boston 0 Miami, Ohio 73, E. Michigan 63Sacramento 20 39 .339 21 Montreal 4, N.Y. Islanders 3 Mid-Am Nazarene t06, Tabor 90
Bulfalo 4, Quebec 4, tie 

Minn.-Duluth 62, SW Minnesota 61
Tuaaday·a Gamsa Minnesota 3, washington t Now York 102. Dallas 83 Pittsburgh 6, Calgary 3 
Minnesota 76, Wisconsin 57 
Mo.-Kansas Crty 77, NE Illinois 66 LA Clippers 117, Miami 116 Wednaaday'a Gamsa 
Washington 106, Orlando 93 Los Angeles 4, Philadelphia t 
Nebraska 9t, Kansas St. 62 San Antonio 103, Minnesota 102 New Jersey 5, N.Y. Rangers 4 
Oklahoma Bt. Missouri 67 
W. Michigan 95, Bowling Green 86 Indiana 103, Chicago 101 Los Angeles 4, San Jose 3 
Phoenix 112. Houston 107, OT Toronto 5, Edmonton 2 
Wayne, Neb. 77, Quincy 69 Ponland 105, LA Lakors 101 Thuraday'a Gamsa 

William Jewell 67, Missouri Val. 62 Winona St. 84. Moorhead St. 63
Seattle 11t, Denver 92 Vancouver at Boston, 7:35 p.m. 
Wls.-Graen Bay 78, Wis.-Parkside 45
Utah 123, Golden State 101 Minnesota at Detroit, 7:35 p.m. SOUTHWEST
Wednaaday'a Gamsa Quebec at Hartford. 7:35 p.m. 
Oklahoma St. 69, Colorado 63
Boston 125, Orlando t 00 N.Y. Islanders at Chicago, 8:35p.m. 
Tarleton St. 52, Southwestern, Texas 40
Philadelphia t07, Atlanta 102 Toronto at Calgary, 9:35 p.m. Detrort 1t 0, Indiana t 07, OT Friday' • Gamea 
Texas A&M 58. Texas Tech 56 
Charlotte 119, Milwaukee t1 0 New Jersey at Buffalo, 7:35 p.m. Portland 129, Denver 100 Winnipeg at Washington, 7:35 p.m. Utah 102, San Antonio 93 St. Louis at Edmonton, 9:35 p.m. LA Lakers 101, Now Jersey 92 Prttsburgh at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. Cleveland 109, Sacramento t 08 
Thuraday'a Gamsa LA Clippers at New York, 7:30 p.m. Dallas at Washington, 7:30 p.m. Chicago at Minnesota. 8 p.m. Miami at Houston, 8:30 p.m. Seattle at Phoenix, 9:30 p.m. Cleveland at Golden State, 10:30 p.m. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3t4 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
USED TEXTBOOKS! Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books 3 blks. from ND 233·2342/1 0-5:30 M-Sun 
Typing Service · Experienced typist ·resumes. papers. etc. uses AT&T computer. Epson printer. Call 656­3158. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082. 
Typing Pickup & Delivery 277-7406 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: Brown framed glasses in a red case. if found please call 284-5256 
LOST: One Birkenstock with tan straps and very worn bottoms. Lost enroute to Rockne from CCMB on Thursday, February 27. Rumored to have been hanging in a tree outside the Riley art building. HELP HELP!!!!! If found, PLEASE call Brooke at x2665. 
LOST: pr. of black ski mittens on way to Loftus from Lewis. This great weather may not last and I need those mittens. Tow ropes are harsh on the bare hands. Call Jeni at x4209. 
LOST 
glasses in Ray-Ban case on 2129 between the JACC and Keenan. Gold framed. Tortoise ear-pieces. Please call Dave x3328 
Lost: I lost 3 id cards last week with the names of: Todd Ogburn Blane Shearon Kevin Feerick If found, PLEASE call Brian at x3537 and I will identify them. 
LOST: black hooded SCARF with pink, green, and purple design. Sentimental value. Please call Cathy, x3840 
Found: One pair of blue contact lenses in the CSC. Call the CSC to claim them. 
WANTED 
AGENTS WANTED TO PROCESS phone orders. People Call you. Will Train. 1-800-727-9716 Ext. 555.24 HAS. 
NEEDED: A RIDE TO OMAHA OR DES MOINES FOR BREAK CALL JEREMY X1861 
RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS/ CENTRAL OHIO FOR BREAK. CALL LISA, 277-6321 
Student staying in South Bend for the summer interested in house­sitting or subletting. Call Monica at 283-4098. 
SUMMER JOBS!!! I need painters for the summer in the South Bend area; experience helpful but not necessary. Call Mike 684-6145. 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153. 
SUMMER SCHOOL RENTAL· 3 SEPARATE BEDROOMS, USE OF FACILITIES, KITCHEN, WASHING, $225/MO. NICE NEIGHBORHOOD & HOME. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PAUL 232-2794. 
6-7 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. FURNISHED.272-6306 
Student rental for '92-93. 4 bdrms & loft. Avail. Aug. 232­4964. 
FOR RENT "ONLY $125 PER PERSON .... 259-7801 OR 255-5852" 
For Rent 5Br. 2 bth house for next semester newly remodeled, 1 mile from campus. Right behind Laf. Squ. Security sys. Wash/dryer call 232-8256 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO ­Ironwood & Bulla · 2 B/R -2 Bath ­available immediately. call287­0534 or 271-9268. 
SHARE 2-BR HOME w/ M Grad Stdnt Garden, appls, 2-car gar. A vi Apr 1 (No joke!) 288-3878 
Student rental, large 6-8 bdrm. avail. Aug. 288-6740. 
FOR SALE 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 Mercedes ...................... $200 86 vw....................................$50 87 Mercedes ...................... $100 65 Mustang .......................... $50 Choose from thousands starting $25. 
FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC 
TICKETS 
GRATEFUL DEAD TIX -3/23,24 AUBURN HILLS. I have 2 tix for each show. John 2719165 
PERSONAL 
INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. Good rates. Save Money. Call me for a quote 9:30-6:00, 289-1993. Office near campus. 
DO YOU NEED A RIDE TO O'HARE? CALL UNITED LIMO. SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK FROM ND BUS SHELTER. 674-7000 OR 1-800-833-5555. 
If you see KIM KLINE, wish her a Happy 19th Birthday! 
SUNSHINE CAB CO. 50 cents off with this ad and 4 hours advance reservation. Station wagon available lor large groups. 299-0202 
SPRING BREAK · S. PADRE ISLAND, TEXAS. "RADDISON RESORT' BEACHFRONT PARTIES! SLEEPS 6, ALSO 3 BR. SLEEPS 8. DISCOUNT BY OWNER. 1-212-472-1414. 
We are Strong ! 
NEED A JOB NEXT YEAR? Student Activities is hiring students for: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Building Managers Office Assistants Sound/light Technicians Programming Assistants Information Desk Attendants Theodore's Room Monitors Disc Jockeys Games Room Attendants 
Pick up applications at LaFortune Information Desk. Deadline for applications is Friday, March 6. 
I, myself, cannot. 

SENIORS: BEAT THE SLOW JOB MARKET BY VOL:UNTEERING! Deadline for Holy Cross Associates is Friday March 20. Stop by the CSC for info! 
JASMINE GROOVE TONIGHT! 
Christopher "Everclear", "Eveready". "Ebbie", "Bear", "Cracker" Ebberwein is 21!! Make sure to wish him a happy birthday as he makes his triumphiannour of the bar scene tonight! *********************** 
hey nit 

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA Info on semester, year, graduate, summer and internship programs in Perth. Townsville, Sydney, and Melbourne. Programs start at $3520. Call 1-800-878-3696. 
The Lizard King lives on! Down with the Crustaceans! 
cancun countdown: 1 day 
NIKII 

GLAD TO SEE YOU COULD TAKE TIME OUT FROM WATCHING "LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE" TO READ THIS PERSONAL. 
HAPPY 23RD BIRTHDAY!!! 
HAVE A GREAT SPRING BREAK! LOVE, CHRIS, KELLY, VAL, KATHY, KATHY, JIM, LAURA, ZAN. CLINT, ETC. 
SADD/BACCHUS wishes you 
a safe and fun spring break\ 
Register Wednesday & 
Thursday in the dining halls 
for a drawing for a free car 
and other great prizes. 
************************ 
It's allright... ....... . 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND CONDOMINIUMS FOR SPRING BREAK. $25 PER PERSON PER NIGHT/ OFF BEACH. $29 PER PERSON PER NIGHT/ BEACHFRONT. 1-800-422-8212. 
to the athletic dept.: your time is gonna come -led zeppelin 
And it just kept rolling and rolling .................... . 
marge, lush, katey, kar. mo. joy and julie {our chaperone?): cancun is moments away. DO NOT SPEND MONEY THIS WEEK. We need every cent we have ... 
GOING TO NORTH JERSEY/NYC AREA FOR BREAK ??? I need a ride and will help will help with tolls/gas/driving. Frank x2106 
HAO, LULAC, and the Office of Minority Student Affairs cordially invite you to attend Dr. Samuel Betances' lecture, "The Many Faces of the Hispanic" on Mon. March 16, at 7:00pm in the Library Auditorium. A reception will follow and all are welcome. 
HEHH??? 
•••Gooney misses you! •••He can hardly wait for spring break. ···He really wants his bed back. 
-Gooney 
HELP!! Our ride cancelled! Desperately need a ride for two to NYC area for Spring Break!\ Please call x2672 or x2648! 
i want to die with you (wendy?) on the street tonight in an ever-lasting kiss. 
JASMINE GROOVE 
@ 
BRIDGET'S THURSDAY 
Hey Blondes-You might have advantages ... NOTI But the Brunettes have the NATURAL ability! Remember: All's fair in love & war, but not in Cancun ... 
Dear Keith. 
I am going to miss the cow-bite guards and rocks of love next week! 
Love, Your little flame of passion 
Troublemaker, You can think that I'm slow, but don't think for a second that I can't make you fumble. You know better!!! And you better know that you mean more to me than pro bowling, but not fishing. 
-FL 
ToJC: Can't wait to try out my new rubbers ... :: Gloves that is. Princess 
GUARANTEED ALASKA JOBS ox. $1 000./Wt<. room. -d& airfare. N•. ·gz 80 pg. guider...... moSI CIIUill JJvspociS in: Fishing, Oil. Alaslli Taacher Placement. Degreed j<Xls. Conslruaoo. & fiU!cll more. Weei<Jy nfo iiYOioble Stale tisctllSild agency Alaol<..p QllraniN: Seare AI....., job. or tOO'i. rebid. Send S9.95 • S3 S&H to: Alosl<emp. Boor t236 · X. Cc>v•s. OR 97339. 


AP File Photo 
Orel Herschiser will have to have a strong year for the Dodgers to fulfill 
Mike Scrudato's prophecy of Los Angeles winning it all. 
Storm Davis. But, this is 199~~ The Cleveland Indians. What
Random 
needs to be said? It looks like another long year for the Tribe

continued from page 16 
and first-year skipper and long time Indian, Mike Hargrove.

Phil Garner. The Brewers have Now it is time to shift gears,
a formidable rotation in Bill 
as we go from baseball's weak­Wegman, Jaime Navarro and est division to its strongest-theChris Bosio, all of whom won 14 AMERICAN LEAGUE WEST.

or more games last season. 
This division is stacked with

However, they do not have 
talent, and any team, except themuch else. 

California Angels, who willThe Baltimore Orioles are battle the Indians for the

celebrating the opening of their 
American League's worst

new stadium with a reunion of record, is capable of winning it.
their 1983 World Series 
The Texas Rangers will score

Championship team, as they 
a lot of runs, there is nohave brought back Mike question about that. Ruben

Flanagan, Hick Dempsey and erra Julio Franco Rafael 

Celebrate 
Spring Break •92 At~MMEI6 .
g ft. lauderdale beach, · = florida 
with paid admission for above coJiege students between 7pm-8:30pm wHh proper college 1.0. 
Enjoy Summers Specials/ 
Live •usic ~ll 2am Nightly:. 
Seventh Heayen Fl Lauderdale's Hottest Rock &Dance Band 
• 

-.l!.l~ci 

WHAT'S NEW! 
.,,:PRICE DESTROYER 
·: Two Medium Pizzas with five toppings $8.99 
•271-0300 
Notre Dame 

•289-0033 
St. Mary's 


I~-----~--------r-------------1
I TRY OUR NEW 15"
THE PRICE DESTROYER I
I I 
LARGE CHEESE PIZZA
";. .;,:; . J 
Five Toppings. I
I I I I $6.99 
And receive a tree 32 oz. I
I I 
Domino's cup. While supplies last. 
I $8.99 I I 
Sausage, Pepperoni. Onions. 15% more pizza. only a dollar more. 
I

I Mushroans & Green Pe):p<l<s. I (Limlted Portions. No Substltutloos.) I
SIUdentlD .t Coupon Required. Plcue
I I 
Mentioo Coupon When Ordering. 
I

I Third Pizza only $4.00 morel I 
Dlrcrnpa~>~],...21,1992.Volida<--II • LlmitedtimeJI:~~~·Uiw;l.b ..yo<M.olfw. I · poaqa..... oaly. Not..!idwilla"'J'--. 
_ u-..-~iftl)' UU. lO CDJUK Nfe.driviq. .. l..i.aaaeddcllvt:;tyUMID-u...t.--., _
_____________ I
I c...._-,.,.ulo& laX where applieablc. 0.. I • · CU&Iomclrpe.,. .U. \u whore IIPitlicaW.. 0.. 
· a .... am DOl ~lized fm lato"cWi---. 1 
.. ----~=-::.:.-~!:.l•.:_dc:.:m.-­
r--------------r-------------­
PAN-TASTIC! WE NOW HONOR Medium 12" ALL 1-Topping Pizza 
COMPETITOR'S $5.99 COUPONS 
Choice of Crust: Pan or Original 
Student ID .t Coupon P.eouired. PleASe Mention Coupon Wh.•' Ordering. 

OII'CI'cxplrc.Jua. 1.1992. Validatputici­~o.....I-ll,l"2. Yoliola<"'""'· paliq llora oaly • ol ya}jd with UIJ' other oft'er. ...,._oWJ Notw.W widl 1117 otMroll'c Limi'" clcJi'VCiry IIU lO ODIWC aafc driYillJ. _____,_... doli__ 
.._.......,...............,.. ·i·iq. C..\DIIIer pa)'l ..... t.u wbon applic:aWe. Ow
.. ______________._ ______________c...iir,.,.............wlieaW.. o._ 
driven ue aot pe•lized fmlaiD dd.ivcric&.. 


Palmeiro and Juan Gonzales are all capable of driving in 100 runs. One problem Texas might encounter is a lack of starting pitching, especially if Bobby Witt does not fully recover from elbow surgery and Nolan Ryan . begins to show his age. Despite the shaky pitching, the Hangers should put enough runs on the scoreboard to capture their first division crown. 
One team that has a lot of questions to answer is the Chicago White Sox. How much will they miss Jeff Torborg? What is Bo Jackson's role? Will Bobby Thigpen bounce back? Steve Sax is a valuable addition, but the Sox were supposed to win the division last year without all of these questions staring them in the face. 
The defending World Series Champion Minnesota 1\vins lost a lot more than a pitcher when they let Jack Morris go north of the border. They lost the man that single-handedly won Game 7 for them. Though Scott Erickson and Kevin Tapani are still formidable starters, the rest of the rotation is nothing to brag about. 
The Kansas City Royals made major changes over the winter, as they dealt Bret Saberhagen to the Mets for Gregg Jefferies and Kevin McReynolds. They also picked up free-agent Wally Joyner. The Royals could make a lot of noise if all the new pieces fall into the right places. 
The Seattle Mariners added Kevin Mitchell to their ranks, but seriously depleted their bullpen in doing so. Mitchell is not exactly the perfect club­house fixture either. This trade could end up doing more dam­age that good. 

Another team for which chemistry is a problem is the Oakland Athletics, who were supposed to be the dynasty of the 90's. Too much squabbling and too much age here for Oakland to contend in this tough a division. 
The NATIONAL LEAGUE EAST could be the most inter­esting division in baseball this year. 
Jeff Torborg should be able to get the most out of the New York Mets, baseball's most disappointing team of late. They have the league's best pitching and a lineup featuring Bobby Bonilla should score enough runs to win a lot of games. If Dwight Gooden is healthy and the clubhouse stays quiet, the Mets should win their third division title in seven years. 
If Gooden's arm falters, the Chicago Cubs could sneak away with the division. Last year, people had high hopes for the Cubs, but were disappointed. This year, the fans at Wrigley will not be. A team with as much talent as the Cubs should not be as bad as they were in · 1991 two years in a row. 
The Pittsburgh Pirates lost Bonilla, but still have Barry Bonds, Andy Van Slyke and Doug Drabek. There is still the nucleus of a good team here, but the talent of the Mets and Cubs, along with Bonds' loom­ing free agency, will hamper the Bucs this summer. 
The St. Louis Cardinals, Montreal Expos and Philadelphia Phillies all have new uniforms this season, but not much else. 
The NATIONAL LEAGUE WEST provided the most excit­ing pennant race in baseball 
last season and could do the 
same this year. 

The Los Angeles Dodgers had the most talent in 1991 and went out and got Eric Davis over tlw winter. Tommy Lasorda will somehow get the most out of Davis and his best friend Darryl StrawbPrry, and the duo will led the Dodgers all the way to a World Series title. 
Their toughest compPtition could bfl in their own division, as the Atlanta Braves are back with another year of experience under their belts. The pitching will be there, but another MVP season from Terry Pendleton will not be. Pendleton and Otis Nixon, who is returning from a drug suspension, had career seasons last year. 
The San Francisco Giants came on strong after a slow start last year and are hungry. Will Clark and Co. will return to contention in 1992. The one thing that will keep them out of the playofl's will be the absence of Kevin Mitchell's bat. 
The Cincinnati Reds were crippled with injuries last sea­son. If they remain healthy, they could rPgain the form that took them to the 1990 World Series title Barry Larkin and .Jose Rijo are two of the most underrated players in the game. 
.The San Diego Padres would be the doormats of the division if the Houston Astros were not fielding ~:mother bargain-base­ment team. 
Well, there it is. If you dis­agree with me, you can cut this out, save it until Octobnr and throw it in my face i.f I am wrong. But before you do, re­member, I warned you about the U.S. Hoek~y team. 
--1 
I
Thursday, March 5, 1992 The Observer page 13 I 
! 
I I
NHL talks. continue; strike threatened by players 
(AP)National Hockey League players want a freer, fairer sys­tem more than money from their new collective agreement with team owners, veteran Ryan Walter said Wednesday. 
"Our goal is not to bankrupt the NHL or any of its teams," said Walter. a Vancouver Canucks forward and a vice­president of the NIIL players Association. "Our goal is to ne­gotiate a new contract. We want a fair contract." 
The association is prepared to call the first players strike in its 25-year history should it fail to make progress on a new contract at a meeting with league governors next Monday and Tuesday in New York. 
But association executive di­rector Bob Goodenow released a written statement Wednesday denying reports that players had set March 16 as the walk­out date. 
Goodenow said that some of the teams "were still in the process" of voting on whether strike action was necessary. 
Should the meetings fail, the mandate would "authorize the committee to take any action the committee deems necessary, including calling a players' strike, in order to achieve the players' bargaining objectives," Goodenow's statement said. 
Players on at least 12 of the 22 NHL clubs have so far voted to give Goodeno .v and his nego­tiating committee a mandate to call a strike. Other teams are to vote this week. · 
The Hartford Whalers on Wednesday joined the group in authorizing a strike by the players' union if no collective bargaining agreement is reached next week. 

Hartford player representa­tive Pat Verbeek said the Whalers voted unanimously to give Goodenow authority to call a strike if no progress is made at the meetings Monday and Tuesday in New York. 
No date for a possible strike has been announced, Verbeek said. _ 
Despite the strike votes, players remain hopeful. an agreement can be reached, Verbeek said. 
"We've got to go into the meetings optimistically, hoping things work out. But if not, we're prepared for the worst scenario," Verbeek said. "We're going to do whatever is necessary. We don't want any work interruptions. I don't think that's good for the game. But the bottom line is we have to have some fairness on both sides." 
The teams' strike votes were supposed to be kept confiden­tial, but Verbeek agreed to re­lease the Whalers vote after word leaked out Tuesday that players from 11 other teams approved the strike. 
Softball 
continued from page 16 
MCC leading 1.22 ERA and a dominating 11-1 record. Junior Staci Alford (1.44 ERA. 12-5) and versatile sophomore Carrie Miller 
(1.41. 10-6) hope to find room for improvement. 
Boulac hopes to use these three extensively early in the season. Freshman Aimee 
'Terry  will  add  depth,  
especially later  on  in the  
season.  

"We have a variety of pitchers that do a lot of things," said coach Miller. "We hope to keep the other teams from zeroing in on them. We'll throw a lot of junk and be situation smart." 
The offense ranked second in the MCC last season with a .246 batting average. "The offense takes time to develop," said Boulac. "We're trying to focus on rhythm and 
technique. We're swinging a 
lot of bats trying to develop 
the basics now so our hitting 
is stronger later on." 
When not on the mound, 
Carrie Miller Will probably be 
in the outfield. Last year, she 
hit .308, leading the team in 
both hits (45) and RBI (23). 
Sophomore Christy 
Connoyer, named first-team all-MCC at second-base, led ·the team in hitting (.339) and 
slugging percentage (.390). 
Leadoff hitter Roni Alvarez, 
a junior. will move to center­
field. She should improve her 
.246 average after a year's 
experience as a switch hitter, 
while senior co-captain Ruth 
Kmak is the team's nucleus 
both offensively (at cleanup) 
and defensively (at shortstop). 
The other co-captain, Amy 
Folsom, is a solid catcher and 
was honored as a GTE 
academic All-American last 
season. 
"I look for leadership from 
our co-captains," said Boulac. 
"They were both walk-ons as third-base. Stephanie Pinter (.364 in 30 games) could get more at-bats, but will battle junior Casey McMurray and sophomore Melissa Cook at first-base. 

freshmen and were never beaten out in the four years they've been here." 
Freshman slugger Sarah Hayes looks to be a major contributor. "She's got good credentials and is ready to step up and 'be a big contributor for us," said Boulac. Hayes, from South Pasadena, CA. could fill in at catcher, outfield, DH, first-or 

SPRING BREAKERS 
going to Cancun or Daytona 
with Lance Dawson 

AftEN,.ION SOPHOMORES!!! 
Looking for a great leadership opportunity? Want to be a part of the best Jr. Class event? Applications are now available for the 
1993 JUNIOR PARENTS 
WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
at the LaFortune Info Desk. Deadline: Fri., March 6. 

Experience not necessary -just enthusiasm! 
Please Recycle this paper when you are finished reading it. 
Make Sure You Wish These 
Two Hog-Wild Roommates Amy and Shannon a Happy Birthday! 

'I Enquiring minds want tel know: Graf curious about future of nude photos 
BOCA RATON, Fla. lAP) ­Steffi Graf's forehand appears to be in fine form again this week. It's those backside shots she's worried about. 
Graf breezed to a third­round victory Wednesday at the Virginia Slims of Florida, then discussed overexposure in the tennis spotlight. 
She confirmed reports that a helieopter flew over her house in Boca !laton 10 days ago and took photos of her sunbathing nude. The photographer's work has yet to surface in print. 
"lie only got my back, thank God," Graf revealed. "Otherwise I would have been crazy .... 
"I don't know where you can have your privacy anymore. If you're not able to do whatever you want at your home, I think that's pretty sick." 
Shortly after advancing to 
the quarterfinals in the $550,000 tournament, Graf talked about the price of fame. 
"It is really frustrating, be­cause you work so hard for what you do and dedicate your­self so much to the sport and give so much, and then you don't even get respect out of it," she said. "You do your job, and then you should get some tJime away from it." 
The New York Post reported that the graphic pictures were taken by freelance photogra­pher Art Seitz, who has angered tennis players before. Martina Navratilova grabbed Seitz's camera and exposed his film in a confrontation at the 1982 U.S. Open, prompting a four-year legal battle that ended with Seitz being awarded $50 and a roll of film. 
Seitz, contacted at his home in Fort Lauderdale, declined to comment on th13 Graf matter. 
The 22-year-old German said she is considering legal action. She remembers when the pho­tos were taken. 
"1 realized it exactly the moment the helicopter was overhead," she said. "I was just hoping it was some stranger." 
Graf's private life has re­ceived frequent attention from European tabloids, particularly when her father's affair with a model was disclosed. Nude photos would be a first, how­ever. 
"The people doing that, I think they should be really pun­ished," Graf said. "They have no right to do those kind of things. This really has gone way too far, when you don't have your private life anymore, even at home." 

Rodman sets record in win; Gill! leads Hornets 
AUBUHN IIILLS, Mich. lAP) -Denis Hodman grabbed 34 rebounds -the highest total in the NBA in nearly four years and a Detroit Piston team record ~ and Isiah Thomas scored five of his 31 points in ovnrtime to key a 110-107 vic­tory over the Indiana Pacers. 
Bodman's rebound ·total was the most in the NBA since Charles Oakley had 35 for the Chicago Bulls on April 22, 1988. The 34 rebounds broke Bob Lanier's Piston record of 33 set in 1972. 
Thn game was tied at 103 when 35 seconds left in over­time when Thomas hit an off­balancn shot while being fouled by Daln Davis, and hit the free throw. 
Detlef Schrempf hit a layup to cut Detroit's lead to one, but Dumars converted two free throws to restore the three­point advantage, and Person was fouled as he attempted a game-tying 3-pointer. 
Person made the first, missed the sneond. and Dumars grahbnd the loose ball. Bill Laimbeer then hit two free throws to clinch the game. 
Hornets 119, Bucks 110 

MILWAUKEE -Kendall Gill scored 20 of his 25 points in the second half and Larry Johnson added 25 points as the Charlotte Hornets overcame a 17-point first-half deficit en 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
said Louder-back, "so that would be a really big win for us, especially since it's in the region. I think we can beat them, and I think the girls are ready to play." 
Added Doran, "Our team needs a win. We've been so close in the last few matches and haven't been able to get a win. I think everyone needs to focus and want to win, and I think we can beat Northwestern." 
CORRECTION: 

In the column that appeared on the back page of yesterday's Observer, Jerry Tarkanian was miscorrectly identified as the winningest coach in college basketball. Mr. Tarkanian is the coach with the best winning percentage in college basket­ball. The Observer regrets the error. 

The win was Charlotte's fifth straight and 1Oth in its last 13 games. 
J.H. Heid added 23 points, three-game road losing streak. Frank Brickowski and Dale Ellis each scored 20 points to lead Milwaukee, which lost for the eighth time in 11 games. 
Have a E>afe Break. 
·rhenttSenu= 
For anyone int•~rested in the paid posiition of 
St. Mary·~E Day Editor 
please submit a one page resume to Michelle1 Clemente 
by Thursday ~~arch 5 at 5:00pm at the McCandless front desk or Room 538 McCandless. Any questions.. call 284·5 536 

SPORTS SHORTS 
Spanish prince might bear flag in Barcelona games 
•BARCELONA, Spain (AP) -Prince Felipe, a member of Spain's yachting team and heir to the Spanish throne, has bet'n nominated to serve as the host country's flag bearer at the Summer Olympics' opening ceremonies. The El Mundo Deportivo newspaper, quoting unnamed sources, reported that Prince Felipe will be elected provided he earns a place on the Olympic team at next week's Spanish Cup trials in Barcelona. The final decision won't be made until a meeting of the executive panel of the Spanish Olympic Committee in July. Prince Felipe, who com­petes in the soling class, is hoping to become the third member of the Spanish royal family to sail in the Olympics, which open July 25 in Barcelona. 
Heralded running back returns to Ohio State 
•COLUMBUS, Ohio -Ohio State quarterback Kirk Herbstreit welcomes Robert Smith's return to the team but says the star running back will have to earn the spot he gave up last year. Smith, who broke Archie Griffin's freshman rushing record at Ohio State in 1990, announeed Tuesday that he would return to the team he quit in August in a dispute over academics. Smith said he quit after offensive coordinator Elliott Uzelac told him to miss a class to attend practice. Uzelac, who resigned last month to pursue other coaching opportunities, has denied saying that. He could not be reached to comment. Smith said he is rNurning because he missed his teammates. · 
Female racer dies of cancer 
•MILAN, Italy -Lelia Lombardi, the Italian woman who made auto racing history in the 1970s by gaining points in Formula One races on the Grand Prix tour. died Tuesday, her family said. Lombardi was 48 and had cancer. She was of the three· women to appear on the Grand Prix circuit, driving for March and Brabham teams before retiring in 1976. She bPcamP the only woman driver to win championship points when she placed sixth in a Spanish Grand Prix in 1975. Her racing career included races in the the sport and Formula-5,000 championships. 
Braves' Mohlers picked as tog newcomer 
•DURHAM, N.C. -Mark Wohlers, a right-handed relief pitcher with the Atlanta Braves, was projected as 1992's top rookie by Baseball America on Wednesday. Wohlers gained famed last fall as part of the National L11ague's first thrAP-pitdwr no hitter. He was 3-1 with Atlanta with two saves. Second on the magazine's list of top 20 prospects was Wilfredo Cordero, a Montreal Expos hopeful at shortstop. 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Sportsbriefs 
are accepted in writing during business hours Sunday through Friday at the Observp,r office on the third floor of LaFortune. Please submit your brief. your name, your telephone number, and the dates the brief is to run. 

•The 
Observer is looking for Saint Mary's sports writers. Anyone interested in covering Saint Mary's sports for Tlw Observer should contaet the Saint Mary's Sports Editor, Nicole McGrath, at The Observer office or at 284-5415. 

•Off 
Campus Lacrosse is looking for new players. Anyone interested in playing should contact Jim Mahoney as soon as possible at 289-7736. 

•The 
Globetrotters will be in action today at the JACC. The game which starts at 7:30 is sponsored by Bounce and Cheer. Tickets are still available at the box office. 



~IE~ll ~§ 

rnJAl)I ffij=fl1 
FREE ROO~ & BOARD 
$ 5.80 PER HOUR 
SIGN UPS ON MARCH 16-20 10 AM TO 4 PM CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL 

r 
[ 
....... 
.. 
page 16 
MIKE SCRUDATO 
Random Thoughts 
Preseason picks put Red Sox, 
Dodgers on top 
OvPr tlw past fpw wPeks I have writtPn a few things in this eolumn that havP upsPt some studPnts who are usPd to having tlwir sports nPws S(Hion-I'Pd to them and rPading pro­NotrP Danw. pro-USA fluff. 
I am sorry if somn of thP NotrP Danw students an~ too narrow minded to deal with a little eontrovnrsy or acenpl a position on sonwthing that is a little bit different than tlw norm. 
So, to ae<·ommodate these people whirh I have just desc.ribPd I dndded to writ!• a prPview and prndii:tions of tlw upcoming baseball season. 
Tlw AMEHICAN LEAGUE EAST ean prPtty much IJP narrowPd down to the two LPams which havP dominatPd it in recPnt yPars-The Toronto Bhw Jays and Boston Hl.'d Sox. This yPar. I beliew it is tlw HPd Sox's tum. 
Tlw .lays addml World Series MVI' .lark Morris to an alrPady solid rotation and l>avP WinfiPfd still has sonw pop in his bat. I lowevPr. thesn two simply rPplaeP Tom Candiotti and MookiP Wilson. and Toronto might suffnr from the lark of Wilson's leadPrship. (Ask tlw MPts about that.l 
ThP HPd Sox. on tlw other hand. are a murh improved team. Frank Viola and Hogpr ClmnPns provide them with thP bnst 1-2 startPrs in thP division. possibly in all or baseball. Opporwnts should bewan~ of Mo Vaughn. who gPts a chance at first basn due to Carlos <)uintana'a auto aeeidPnt. 
ThP rPst of the division is mediiHTP at lu•st. ThP :'1/ew York Yankt•t•s also havI' a rw w skip p e r in Buck ShowaltPr, who was Pxtrnnwfy popular with tlw playPrs as tlw third­bas!' roarlt last seasort. Tlwy havP improv('(l thPir starting rotation. which prohahly could haw gottPn any worsP. with tlw StPVP Sax for Mnlido I'Pf'PZ dPal. Danny Tartabull will bolstl'l' an alrPady imprPssivP linPup that inrludPs MPI flail. Matt NokPs. HohPrto KPIIy and a lwalthy Don Mattingly. If thP pitching is dPrPnt, tlw Ya n kePs ro ul d sur prisP so mn peoplP. 
Tlw Dt•troit Tigl.'rs 1mter 1992 with pwtty much tlw same team that they finish I'd I 1J1J I with. That team linislwd a resrwctablP third. but Bill Gullickson is not going to win 20 ganws again. and Danny Gladden will not lwlp that much. Another third place finish is thP best the Tigers will do if thPy gPt lucky. 
Yet anotlwr team with a new head man is the Milwaukee Brewers. who have rPplacPd Tom Trebelhorn with 
see RANDOM I page 12 

INSIDE SPORTS 
NHL strike gains player approval 
see page 13 NBA Results 
see page 14. Graf's Photo Troubles 
see page 141 

Sports 
Thursday, March 5, 1992 
Irish !;oftball opens season over break 
ND travells to Southern Illinois and Florida for tournaments 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
NotrP Danw softball opPns its SPasmt with a strPtrh of I I ganws on tlw road ovP r brP a k. Aft P r tlw Soutlwrn Illinois TournamPnt this WPPkPtHI, tiJP tP<llll will fly to [.'lorida for Pight mon~ ganws. · 
B1~eoming a varsity program only thrPP yPars ago, llw tPam has had a short but imprt>ssiVI' historv. Last sPason, tlwy \wnt :{H-22 and \von llw MCC Championship for tlw SPI'ond straight yPar. 
Aln~ady establishing thPmsPh'PS as a MidwPstPrn powPrhousP, llw Irish continuP to broadl'n tlwir horizons. This year's upgradPd srlwdulP fea­tures tough rompPtition, starting with Bowling CrPPn, SouthPast Missouri State and host Southf'l'n Illinois. In Tampa. NotrP Danw will farP Bhodl' Island. Oklahoma. f'rincnton and Army. 
"Wp'rp not quiLl' n•ady to play at that IPVPI yPI." admittPd IH·ad roarh Brian Boular. who SPPs llw trip morl' as a spring training for his tPam. "W•~'rp normally slow starLPrs. But with tht> warm 'wt>atlwr. wP\'1' bi'Pn abiP to gt>t outsidt> nwrP and prPparP for thP rigors of tlw st>ason." 
f;ull-tinw assistant roal'ft Liz 1\lillt>r should also aid thP tt>am's prPparation Pflorts. "\\'ith tht> addition of roach Millt>r. w1>rp a lot strongPr softball t1•a 111," said Boular. who doltbiPs as till' school's assistant athiPtir dirPI'tor. According to SPVPral playPrs. tlw tt>am will undoubtPdl~ lwtwf'it from this spring's rigorous workout program. 

Tlw roaching staff is blt>ssPd with a wealth of Vl'tt'ran taiPnt. With till' I'XCPption of first-hasP. all of last yPar's startPrs rPturn. . ThP Irish. till' MCC's top pitching staff last yPar. had a stingy I .:{.J. J·:BA and hopPs to lw PVPII strongt>r this season. SPnior Missy Linn loggt•d IhO The Observer/John Rock innings in 1'J'J I, whiiP rompiling an 

Shortstop Ruth Kmak, shown here last year against Detroit, will provide experience at the see SOFTBALL! page 13hot spot for the softball team this year. 
Women's tennis looking to shatter losing streaks 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
ThNe an• two stn~aks that tlw NotrP Dame women's tPnnis team would likn to Pnd wlwn it takes to tlw courts against Northwestern this aftPrnoon. 
Tlw Irish (3-4} are currently on a thrPP-gamP losing ~;kid, having fallen to TPnnessee and Kentucky, both ranked. and North Carolina, a borderline-poll team. A win today would be a big boost going into a s-pring break trip that promises to be challenging, including among others, Indiana, Clemson, and South Carolina. 
"I think a win would really help us for the Indiana ganw," said Irish coach Jay Louderback. "We would go into it with a little more confidence than usual." 
Also. the Irish have nPver beaten Northwestern, a kny regional rival. going winfpss in 11 contests against the Wildcats. If nothing else. that should be motivation enough for Notre DamP. 
"We've n<wer beaten North-western in my four years," said senior Kristy Doran. "and a win would be important 
for  us.  looking to ~~Pt  back into the  
rankings  and  for  a  possible  
tournament bid."  

Leading the Irish singles lineup will be junior Melissa Harris, rankPd seventh in the country. Following her will be Laura S·chwab, Christy Faustmann, Lisa Tholen, Terri Vitale, and Ann Bradshaw. 

Tlw Irish hopP to shakP tlw tn•tHI of falling Lwhind in singles matrlws. putting extrl'mP pressurP on all tlw doublPs tPams to eonw out virtorious. 
"Wp'vf~ lost a lot of rlosP singles matchPs," said LoudPr-bark. "and that's taken us out of matclws." 
In doubiPs today, the Irish will shake up the lirwups in the hopPs of finding a winning combination. First doubles will see the usual combination of Faustmann and Tholen. who have playPd solidly all year. 
Louderback, howPver. have changed around the seeond and third teams, choosing to go with Schwab and Eniko Bende at seeond and Katie Clark and Kristy Doran at third. The past few matches have spen Bradshaw and Bende at second and llarris and Schwab at third. 
"We're giving some other peopiB a chance to play," said Louderback. "They've been strong in practice and deserve a shot. It can't hurt us at all." 
As the season progresses, the Irish will be facing a murderous schedule, so a first-ever win over Northwestern today would bP a tremendous boost as they head into the spring break trip. While the tPam has played well, it has fallen just short of pulling off the big wins that would certainly catapult it into the upper echelons of college tennis. However. Louderback has his team fired up and out to prove something. 
"We've never beaten Northwestern," 
see TENNIS/ page 14 





