
The bserver
VOL. XXV. NO. 61 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1992 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students look to services for funding 
BOG talks on campus diversity 
By NICOLE MCGRATH Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) discussed bringing a higher level of cul­tural diversity to the campus during Monday's meeting. 
The new Minorities, Interna­tional, and Non-Traditional Student Life (MINT) director, Marciela Ramirez, will intro­duce herself to the board at next Tuesday's meeting. Ramirez replaced Professor Patricia Washington at the be­ginning of the semester. 
The Board also spoke on preparing for the upcoming National Association of Students at Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU) conference. The conference will be held on February 4-7 at Notre Dame. 
"The conference will be cen­tered around the issue of cul­tural diversity," said Saint Mary's student body president, Tina Carrara. 
BOG has been asked to make a $500 contribution to the keynote speaker's fee of $2,500. The speaker will be Roy Inez, Commissioner of Ra­cial Inequality in Washington D.C. 
Because BOG has a tight bud­get, board members suggested that Joe Cataldo and Mike Schmiedeler, NASSCU coordi­nators at Notre Dame, be in­vited to explain how the money will be beneficial to the confer­ence. 
"We are hoping to send at least six women to the confer­ence," said Carrara. Saint Mary students wishing to attend must pay a $50 registration fee per person. 
In old business, BOG and the Saint Mary's Observer staff held a meeting last Thursday to discuss concerns and positions between their staffs. According 
see BOG I page 4 


Tornadoes rip across North Carolina, killing two 
By PANCHO LOZANO Business Editor 
Recent economic troubles along with the soaring cost of education have left parents and prospective college students with the burden of trying to find some way to lift the weight of education costs. 
One way to ease the burden is to qualify for a scholarship, and with that comes the arduous task of researching and filling out scholarship applications. 
Because of all the work in­volved, students often turn to­wards scholarship-finding businesses, independent com­panies that match college stu­dents to scholarships listed in 
Higher technology 
student turn to an independent company in search of scholar­ships, Russo said. 
"Go through the routine, exhaust all the standard ap­proaches, and then if you still don't fmd anything you can turn towards these," added Russo. 
Critics of scholarship search companies have stated that these services are a fraud and offer nothing for the fee they charge. 
But Russo is hesitant to stereotype all these services as illegitimate. 
"Most of these places are right on the margin in terms of advertising with logos, so you 
see FUNDS I page 4 
ND receives record level contributions 
Special to The Observer 

Cash contributions to the University of Notre Dame ex­ceeded $47 million in fiscal year 1992, an increase of al­most $1 million from the previ­ous year, according to the an­nual report of the University's Department of Development. 
The total, which does not take into account pledges of future gifts, included record levels in foundation and corporate support, the Annual Fund and the Sorin Society. 
"We're pleased with what we raised, especially in light of the sluggish economy, but we know that an institution of our size and quality will need even more in the future," said Daniel Reagan, director of develop­ment. 
Foundation and corporate support totaled $22 million, a 15 percent increase over 1991 and $1.2 million more than the previous best year of 1988. Among U.S. colleges and uni­versities, Notre Dame continues to rank behind only Harvard and Yale Universities in matching gifts, generating $2.4 million in 1992. 
In its 49th year, the Annual Fund raised $11.8 million, an increase of 6 percent over 1991 and the ninth consecutive record-breaking year. The fund received $52,217 gifts, an 8.5 percent increase over the previous year and also a record. 
The Sorin Society raised a record $5.4 million, $600,000 more than last year. The Sorin Society includes contributors of a minimum of $1,000 annually in unrestricted gifts as well as 
see GRANTS I page 4 
computerized databases. 
For a fee, students can hire one of the companies to search for scholarship opportunities. The students fill out a questionnaire, and the company's database matches the information with scholarship opportunities. 
Many college counselors ob­ject to these services because students turn to scholarship search companies too hastily and do not scrutinize their op­tions thoroughly. 

Joseph Russo, director of the Office of Financial Aid for the University, said that students should stick to the norm in terms of applying for scholar­ships. 
"Ninety-five percent of the resources to help students come through the standard routine," Russo said. 
Russo said the resources that students need to find scholar­ships are publicly available, such as public libraries, gov­ernment agencies, and high school and college counselors. 
Only as a last resort should a 
The Observer/ Tom Zipprich 


The Architecture Building is displaying some of the lighting projects which the fifth year students have been working on for their class, Building Technology in Acoustics and Illumination. 
(AP) Tornadoes ripped across North Carolina early Monday, smashing houses and tossing a school bus full of kids off a road before a deadly storm system headed out to sea. 
Two people were killed in North Carolina, boosting the death toll to 25 from the bar­rage of tornadoes through 11 states. 
"Several mobile homes are just frames laying in the middle of the road.... It's pretty exten­sive," said rescue squad mem­ber Ray DeFriess of the damage in Hillsborough, N.C., 30 miles northwest of Raleigh. He estimated 40 to 50 homes were destroyed. 
And in the wake of that weather system, a new storm built in strength Monday in the Rockies. A blizzard closed schools and highways in Col­orado and Wyoming, and avalanches closed canyon roads in Utah, where one ski resort got 35 inches of snow. Wyoming state government offices closed in Cheyenne. 
Other deaths from the unusual November thunderstorm system included 15 in Mississippi; five in Georgia; and one each in Tennessee, Kentucky and South Carolina. 
The first tornadoes had hit Louisiana and Texas on Satur­day, damaging about 300 homes in Houston but causing only minor injuries. A northern extension of the storm system set off tornadoes in Indiana and Ohio. Alabama also was struck. 
Hundreds of people were in­jured. 
More than a dozen North Carolina counties reported damage or injuries Monday. Tornadoes caused extensive power outages, snapped trees, blocked roads and delayed the start of school and work for thousands. 
In Pasquotank County in the state's northeastern corner, a tornado picked up a school bus and carried it 20 to 25 feet, said Sheriff D.M. Sawyer. Twenty-seven children and the driver were treated at a hospital. All injuries treated by late morning were serious, said hospital spokeswoman Diana Gardner. 
Near Wilson's Mills, about 20 miles southeast of Raleigh, Sandra Ward saw a twister pick up a neighbor's mobile home and smash it into a field across the road, throwing a couple and their baby outside. 
"It just lifted it up, rolled it in the air and slammed it down," Ms. Ward said. The baby, found in a field, and its mother were hospitalized, she said. 
Federal and state damage assessment teams moved into Mississippi on Monday. 
"It was absolute total devas­tation," Gov. Kirk Fordice said after touring hard-hit Rankin County, where 10 people died. 
Georgia Gov. Zell Miller toured hard-hit areas Monday and said damage caused Sunday was very severe. The town of White Plains "looks like a war zone," he said. 

Miller said it appeared that one tornado touched down in Putnam County "and just hugged the ground for about 10 or 15 miles, just cutting a path of destruction all along the way." 
"It just got real black and there was a continuous roar like thunder for about 30 min­utes," said Putnam County resident Evalyn Maddox. 
The unseasonable weather was caused by a southern flow of moist air from the Gulf of Mexico sliding under much colder westerly wind higher in the atmosphere, said Henry Steigerwaldt, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Indianapolis. 
In the West, a blizzard warning was in effect for parts of Colorado thrpugh Tuesday morning. 
\ 


-__ 

I l 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
l 
r 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Give thanks for turkey, stuffing and learning 
Since this week's Inside Column sarcasm quota has been filled, this column is for those of you who, like me, are "stuck" here for Thanksgiving. 

For the fourth year in a row, I will be spending the Thanksgiving holiday Paul Pearson on the Notre Dame Associate News Editor 
campus. Am I depressed? No, and I'll explain why. 

At the beginning of my freshman year, I knew that I would not be going home for Thanksgiving. Since Tampa is quite a long distance away from South Bend, I could not afford to go home for both October break and Thanksgiving. Therefore, my parents and I agreed that it would be better for me to come home in October and spend November on campus. 
At first, I had a few mixed feelings about this. I was glad to see my family in October, but the thought of missing the family turkey dinner and eating at South Dining Hall did not leave me feeling very thankful. 

My roommate, Joseph, was also stuck here for Thanksgiving, and that cheered me a little. What I didn't know was that Joseph's mother had sent us the makings of a traditional Thanksgiving dinner, including seasonings for the stuffing and after-dinner mints. She also sent us complete instructions for cooking our own dinner. 
That cheered me a lot. 

Now that we were armed with this stuff, we decided to forget the dining hall and have our own Thanksgiving dinner in our dorm. That Wednesday night, after inviting some guests over for the dinner, we bought a large turkey breast and some mixed nuts to serve to guests while the dinner was being prepared. 
The next day, beginning very early in the morning, we prepared our own family-style Thanksgiving. We turned our room into a dining room, complete with a long table (made from a wardrobe door), set four full dinner places (with real plates and silverware) and served a dinner for four: turkey, stuffing, rolls, honey-glazed carrots, cranberry sauce, green beans, white wine, mixed nuts, and apple pie and coffee for dessert. 
Our guests were impressed. We also impressed ourselves. Not only did we avoid burning the turkey, but we put out a feast that got rave reviews. We even had enough leftovers to last us through the rest of the weekend (which would have been even better had it not been for the Miami game and the "3rd-and-34" play). 
That's how Joseph and I have done Thanksgiving dinner ever since. By now, we are experts at the turkey dinner. 
However, due to various circumstances (like the fact that our dorm no longer has ovens), we will have to settle for after-dinner coffee and apple pie. 
By spending Thanksgiving at Notre Dame, we learned how to fend for ourselves (and that pie tins are NOT suitable for microwave use). More importantly, we've learned that Thanksgiving is not as much about a meal as it is about cooperation, friendship and togetherness. 
Things worth giving thanks for. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author an not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff News Production Bevin Kovalik Rolando de Aguiar Becky Barnes Cheryl Moser Accent Kira Hutchinson Sarah Doran Business Mara Divis John Connorton Sports Susan Marx Jenny Marten Pancho Lozano 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 24, 1992 

•. :·:·:=:·:·:=:·:.: ;:::: 
FORECAST 
Cloudy and cool today with a high of 
45. Cloudy and warmer Wednesday with an 80 percent chance of rain and a high around 50. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  46  40  
Atlanta  70  47  
Bogota  68  46  
Cairo  68  54  
Chicago  43  37  
Cleveland  61  47  
Dallas  53  39  
Detroij  49  44  
Indianapolis  65  43  
Jerusalem  57  46  
London  59  54  


TODAY AT AGLANCE 

NATION Air Force launches rocket 

•CAPE 
CANAVERAL, Fla. -On its third try, the Air Force launched a rocket carrying a $6S million navigation satellite. The threat of lightning Sunday al­most forced another delay, but conditions improved and the 12 1/2-story Delta rocket blasted off about six minutes late. The Navstar Global Positioning System satellite is the 16th in a series of advanced navigation spacecraft. The Air Force wants to eventually have 24 orbiting 12,SOO miles above Earth. A Nov. 6 attempt was aborted when the engine failed to ignite. A launch planned for Saturday was thwarted by clouds and pos­sible lightning. 

•SOUTH 
BE D, lnd.-The city of South Bend has no plans to annex the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College, Mayor Joseph Kernan told the South Bend Tribune Thursday. Although the city is currently researching the possibility of annexing 




several areas north of South Bend, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "are not part of any annexation plan today, tomorrow, or at any time in the future," Kernan said. Notre Dame officials said Monday that the University is not involved in any way with the city's annexation plans. 

OF INTEREST 

•The Sophomore Sibling Weekend has been tentatively set for March 26-28, 1993. Events are being planned to suit the interests of siblings from age 10 to 
16. If you have any questions, call Jim Penilla in the Sophomore Class Office at 239-S22S or at 283-1S60. 
•Notre Dame Food Services will present its Tradi­tional Thanksgiving Dinner in North Dining Hall from 
12:30 p.m. to 3:30p.m. in North Dining Hall. The public is cordially invited. Adults $8.7S, Children $S.2S. 
•Ladies of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's will be selling UNICEF cards and gifts in the Library Concourse Nov. 30-Dec. 4 and Dec. 7-Dec. 11 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
MARKET UPDATE 

YESTERDAY•S TRADING November 23 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 190,497,300 ·0.67 to 234.11 S&P COMPOSITE -1.53 to 425.12 DOW JONES INpUSTRIALS -4.32 to 3,223.04

UNCHANGED 594 

GOLD -$0.91) to ~:;34.40 oz 
SILVER ·SO.Ol to $3.747 oz 
Los Angeles  68  50  
Madrid  72  43  
Minneapolis  35  28  
Moscow  36  30  
Nashville  73  46  
New York  64  59  
Paris  63  52  
Philadelphia  65  62  
Rome  63  45  
Seattle  49  35  
South Bend  47  41  
Tokyo  66  43  
Washington, D.C.  66  57  



Notre Dame club wins awards 
•NOTRE DAME, lnd.-Notre Dame's Model United Na­tions Club won three awards during the American Model 
U.N. Conference last weekend in Chicago, according to Rick Conners, president. In a competition involving simulation of the councils of the U.N., sophomores Kristen Murphy and Erin Williams won an award for best delegation among committees dealing with social and humanitarian issues. Juniors Molly Malloy and John Sonnick were named best delegation among committees dealing with arms control and peace. Notre Dame also won an award for the best delegation in the General Assembly for its representation of China. 

NO raises funds for local shelter 
•NOTRE 
DAME, Ind.-ND for the Homeless Week, sponsored by Student Government, raised an estimated $1SOO in donations to directly support the South Bend Center For The Homeless, according to Mike Griffin, co­coordinator of the week's events. A lot of the money came from the sales of the T-shirts sold by student government and through the selling of Rose Cards in lieu of roses from the Irish Gardens Flower Store in LaFortune Student Center, he said. The largest fundraiser came from the $316 generated from the sales of 300 cups during Senior Bar's ND for the Homeless Night, he said. "We owe a lot of the fundraising success to the Alumni/Senior Club," he added. The T-shirts supporting ND for the Homeless are still available for $10 in the office of student government. 

•Log 
Chapel open house will be on Thanksgiving Day from 1 to S p.m. and visitors can view the stone monument outside of the Chapel designating the spot where Father Sorin and the Brothers halted their horses and wagon, along with Notre Dame's first mascot, Azor, their dog. Mr. Frank Kelly, Director of Guides at Sacred Heart 8asilica has arranged this event. 

•Rockne 
Memorial Thanksgiving Schedule is as follows: Nov. 2S: Building, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Pool, 7-9 


a.m. and Noon-6 p.m., Weight Room, 3-6 p.m.; Nov. 26: closed; Nov. 27: Building, 7 a.m. -7 p.m., Pool, 7-9 a.m., Noon-6 p.m., Weight Room, Noon-S p.m.; Nov. 28: Building, 10 a.m.-6 p.m., Pool, Closed, Weight Room, Noon-S p.m. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1859: British naturalist Charles Darwin published "On the Origin of Species," a paper in which he explained his theory of evolution through the process of natural selection. 

• 
In 1871 : The National Rifle Association was incorporated. 

•In 
1947: The writers, producers and directors who became known as the "Hollywood Ten" were cited for contempt of Congress for refusing to answer questions about alleged Communist influence in their industry. 

• 
In 1963: In a scene captured on live network television, Dallas nightclub owner Jack Ruby shot and mortally wounded Lee Harvey Oswald, the accused assassin of President John 

F. 
Kennedy. 


• 
In 1991 : Rock singer Freddie Mercury died in London at age 45 of pneumonia brought on by AIDS. 



Tuesday.November24, 1992 The Observer 




Gordon: No answer on J.F.K. 

Reagan probably didn't make hostage deal 
CATCH THE SOUTH SHORE LINE AT THE 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT TERMINAL TO 
DOWNTOWN CHICAGO. 
4 westbound trains and 3 eastbound trains every weekday. 8 trains in both directions every 2 hours on weekends. 
Museums, shopping, sporting events, restauronts, cross country skiing in the Dunes all within easy reach aboard NICTD's South Shore Line. 
Worried about snow? Don't bel Leave your car at hon1c. Transpo buses serve the Airport every 1/2 hour on week days and every hour on weekends. 
For schedules and fares call: South Shore Line at: 1-800-356-2079 Transpo at: 233-2131 


MRA 

trarupoNORTHERN INDIANA COMMUTER TRANIPORTATION DISTRI(l 
page3 

By MEGAN BRUCHAS News Writer 
Reviewing second to second detail of the Kennedy assassi­nation, Jack Gordon concluded that there is no definitive an­swer to the case in a lecture Monday night. 
Gordon, who has studied the Kennedy assassination for over 12 years, went over slides, pic­ture, sketches, and amateur video footage of the day of the assassination in Dallas, Texas. 
"In my opinion there are three parts to the case: con­spiracy, the CIA and the Cuban factor," said Gordon. 
In 1993 some of the Warren reports may be released to the public. Gordon said that even then the media will have head­lines stating that no conspiracy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The 1980 Reagan-Bush campaign probably did not strike a hostage deal with Iran but was on "the outer limits of propri­ety" in its dealings on the issue, congressional investigators concluded Monday. 
The investigators said there was insufficient credible evi­dence to suggest that the cam­paign negotiated a delay in the release of 52 American hostages to ensure Ronald Reagan's election, as some have alleged. 
"The great weight of the evi­dence is that there was no such deal," concluded the report, is­sued by the Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee on the Near East after a seven-month investigation. 
But the panel also found that the Republican campaign team, headed by William Casey was intensely interested in the hostage issue and came dan­gerously close to improper in­terference in U.S. foreign policy was involved. 
In displaying the evidence of pictures, he pointsed out where the Warren commission con­tradicts what witnesses and doctors said. Gordon urged stu­dents to look into this detail be­cause it will help them to better understand the whole picture. 
Doctors and interns in the emergency room that day said that the hole in the back of the head was large and possibly an exit wound, said Gordon. The Warren reports contradict the witnesses by showing that the bullet hole was small and was an entrance wound. 
Gordon said the film, "J. F. K.," done by Oliver Stone has many flaws. "It is dangerous to accept the film as the gospel when talking about the case ... students need to do other re­
in its monitoring of the situa­tion. 
"In so doing, they were op­erating on the outer limits of propriety, considering their status as private citizens with­out authority to interfere in the conduct of the foreign relations of the United States," the report said. 
The subcommittee's ranking Republican, Sen. Jim Jeffords of Vermont, said the report was completed Oct. 15, but there wasn't enough time to review and release it before the Nov. 3 presidential election. 
"No matter when we released it, there would be questions about the timing," Jeffords said. "We didn't think it would make a difference" in the election's outcome. 
The subcommittee said nu­merous questions remain unanswered, including the ex­tent of hostage dealings by Reagan operatives between the election and his inauguration. Reagan himself still has not co-
1()e Cte ) LamW:t!!I 

\ _::::::-Jrfl ___ 
search." 
Since the assassination oc­curred 29 years ago, the trail is cold, said Gordon. 
"It is almost a myth by now. This is a gold mine for stu­dents, he said. "The third gen­eration needs to seed out what happen and be meticulous in their work." 
The public will never know what Lee Harvey Oswald said, according to Gordon. No audio tapes or short hand were taken on his two days of testimony, said Gordon. 
Many people had questions concerning the single bullet theory, but Gordon shot down this idea. "I become very an­gered at the single bullet the­ory. There is no way that I be­lieve it was possible," he said. 
operated fully with the investi­gation and key documents of Casey, who later became the director of central intelligence and died in 1987, remain unac­counted for, it said. 
Washington attorney Reid Weingarten, hired by the sub­committee to look into the mat­ter, said his $75,000 budget was inadequate for the kind of in-depth probe he would have liked. 
The subcommittee chairman, Sen. Terry Sanford, D-N.C., said he hoped a House task force, scheduled to release its own report by year's end, will get to the bottom of those and other questions. 
The Senate panel found many of the story's central witnesses "wholly unreliable," and many events and meetings they recounted either were disproved or were riddled with holes. 
Documents from Casey, in­cluding his passport, have not been found. 

MACON, Ga. (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Clinton put his politi­cal capital on the line Monday against a cavalcade of Republi­can heavyweights in Georgia's Senate runoff, saying he needs Democrat Wyche Fowler "to break this gridlock in Washing­ton." 
"You know what they're saying about this race?" Clin­ton said of the Republicans. "If you beat Wyche Fowler it will be easier for us to block every­thing President-elect Clinton wants to do." 
A victory by Fowler would likely give the Democrats a net gain of one seat in the next Se­nate, for a 58-42 advantage. 
GOP challenger Paul Coverdell, a former director of the Peace Corps, brought in big-name Republicans on his side, including Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, Texas Sen. Phil Gramm, Edu­cation Secretary Lamar Alexander, Labor Secretary Lynn Martin and others. 
More than 2,000 people turned out for Fowler and Clin­ton at a city hall rally in Macon. It had all the trappings of a presidential visit, with Secret Service sharpshooters on rooftops and a requirement that the audience pass through metal detectors. 
Clinton delighted the audi­ence by borrowing a saxo­phone after his speech to sit in with the Central High School band. As he played the tune of "Hey, Baby," the people sang, "Hey, Bill, will you be my prez?" instead of "Hey, baby will you be my girl." 
In his speech, Clinton resur­rected his familiar campaign pledges for health insurance, campaign reform, and an end to "trickle-down economics." 
"There are better things for him to be doing today," Fowler said of Clinton, referring to the task of building his administra­tion. 




Clinton: Democratic Fowler necessary to end gridlock 
Back by popular demand ... 
BEAT THE CLOCK TUESDAY! 
5:00p.m., 7:30p.m. Every Tuesday 



Price of Large 1 Topping Pizza is the time you call! 

Free Delivery 



271,1177 
SECURITY BEAT 

Women urge Senate to study sex charges 
WASHINGTON (AP) Women's groups urged the Se­nate on Monday to investigate allegations by 10 women that they were targets of unwel­come sexual advances from Sen. Bob Packwood. Several activists on women's issues said Packwood should resign, but an aide said he would not. 
"There's no way he can re­gain our trust," said Mary Nolan, an abortion rights ac­tivist in Oregon who called for his resignation. 
Two Oregon members of Congress, both Democrats, said the Senate Ethics Committee should review the allegations. So did leaders of women's groups, several of whom said the allegations caught them by surprise given Packwood's reputation as an advocate of women's rights. 
"Obviously they ought to look at this. Otherwise it is a farce to have such a committee," said Harriett Woods, head of the National Women's Political Caucus. 
"It is very disturbing that someone who has been a leader on these issues would not have translated them into personal dealings," added Loretta Ucelli, a spokeswoman for the National Abortion Rights Action League. 
Packwood remained on vaca­tion Monday, his whereabouts kept secret. 
Aides issued a statement in his name Saturday night saying he was sorry if any women felt pressured by his conduct, but they said Monday he would not respond to the specific allegations, which first appeared in The Washington Post. 
"There are some partisan Democrats who would love him to resign, but he is not consid­ering that," said Josie Martin, his top aide on the Senate Fi­nance Committee. 
continued from page 1 to Carrara, the meeting was
unsuccessful. Mcinerney. events. The paper could be
beneficial to both groups. 

Helen Jung, a staff writer for Russo said that the exposure published weekly, said Carrara. 
As a result of the discussion,
the Seattle Times, said that ac­of these companies has made In other business, a new Saint
Carrara suggested forming a
really can't categorize the in­cording to the Better Business this into a national problem, so Mary's poster is being designed 
commission to study Saint
dustry as a whole as bad," Bureau of Seattle most of these the vast majority of the enter­for fundraising purposes, said
Mary's involvement in The Ob­
Russo said. "Occasionally you scholarship search companies prise is now suspect in terms of Carrara. Saint Mary's alumna 
server.

might find a needle in the have a three-month turnover its goal. Kathleen Desmond, owner of
The committee will explore
haystack, but you are better off rate. He added that companies Pitcock Design, South Bend, will 
the possibility of granting stu­
chancing your money on the There has also been a pro­such as College Board, which be creating the poster for free. 
dents college credit for their
lottery." found difficulty in regulating administers the SAT, are cur­Notre Dame has not been ex­the practices of these compa­rently trying to create the same lished for benefactors who in­empt to problems concerning nies. type of services with more clude Notre Dame in their es­
Grants

scholarship matching services. Kenneth Mcinerney, the as­credibility. "They will not mar­tates, now includes 425 mem­In 1989 a number of students sistant director for governmen­ket to students, but rather to 
bers with planned gift ex­
continued from page 1

filed a complaint to the Notre tal affairs at the National Asso­colleges and libraries," said pectancies of more than $104Dame Security Department ciation of Student Financial Aid Russo. 
million.

concerning these services, Administrators (NASFAA), said Russo said that although Development efforts in 1992which then resulted in a formal that currently no legislation many people are becoming members of the new Founders 
were marked by a series of

complaint filed by the Notre regulates the practices of these more aware of these services, Circle who donate $3,000 or transitions within the depart­Dame Security Department to companies other than postal they are still flourishing. more annually. 
ment, including the promotionthe Consumer Protection Bu­laws. "Its the perfect time for Planned giving commitments of Reagan to director, the ap­
reau, a division of the U.S. Mcinerney added that NAS­them," said Russo. "People are (including bequests, trusts, in­pointment of David Morrissey toPostal Service. FAA is not into lobbying but is very vulnerable because of the surance and other estate gifts) 
associate director, and theThe San Diego based com­very concerned about the economy and rising costs in totaled $16.5 million, an in­addition of assistant regional 
pany was having its mail for­problem. education. A couple with a poor crease of $1.2 million from directors in the Los Angeles and warded through Washington, "The Department of Educa­family can fall easy prey to 1991. The Badin Guild, estab-New York offices. 
D.C. to San Diego. tion is looking into the problem. these services," he added. 
Services, in Berlin, NJ and the but the only thing we can do Department of Student Finance, right now is make sure things

Funds 

an independent company in such as 'truth in advertising' Sunrise, FL were also type stuff is enforced," said 
Three of the students, Mr. Russo, and Denny Navarre, a member of the Notre Dame Se­curity Department, were issued subpoenas to testify at a hear­ing. Although a technicality re­sulted in the case being dis­missed, the company was no longer allowed to receive mail. 
According to the Wall Street Journal, last July the Federal Trade Commission filed suit against one such company, Academic Guidance Services (AGS). for overstating the li­censees' earning potential. 
Attempts to reach AGS presi­dent Mark Gohen for comment were unsuccessful. 
Attempts to reach a number of the services themselves, such 
as Scholarship Matching 
' 
I 
f 
I ~ 
f 
Tuesday, November 24, 1992 
The Observer/ Tom Zipprich

Play guitar 

Entertaining his friends, Michael Zilvitis, a Carroll Hall sophomore, strums his electric guitar during his study break. 
work on the Observer in order to increase the involvement of
BOG 
Saint Mary's students and cov­erage of Saint Mary's events. 
continued from page 1 
They will also study the po­
tential to create a newspaper 
that soley covers Saint Mary's 


Newly Remodeled 


Notre Dame Apartments KRAZE Now available for the 
Now Open at Ironwood Plaza 
2nd semester and
in South Bend Next to Martin's Supermarket '93 ~ '94 school year Call232 ~ 8256 for info
Mon-Sat 9 a.m.-9 p.m. Sunday 10 a.m.-6 p.m. and scheduled showings All lteiiJs $1 or Less 
l ­
page 5 

Tuesday, November 24, 1992 The Observer 

Kevorkian involved in another suicide 
SOUTHFIELD, Mich. (AP) ­Dr. Jack Kevorkian attended the suicide of the cancer patient on Monday. It was his sixth assisted suicide. 
Catherine Andreyev, 46, of Coraopolis, Pa., turned on a device that allowed her to in­hale carbon monoxide gas through a mask, police said. 
"I consider this a well-tested, well-controlled, well-thought out medical procedure," Kevorkian said. 
"The aim of suicide is to end a life," he said. "The aim of this is to terminate unbearable suffering. I've made progress because for one more human being, suffering is ended." 
Kevorkian was charged with murder after the first three deaths, but each time the cases were dismissed because Michi­gan has no law against assisted suicide. 
His Michigan medical license has been suspended, but he remains licensed in California. 
Andreyev had suffered from cancer for six years, said Kevorkian's attorney Michael Schwartz. 
"This is a case of medicide," Schwartz said. "It is a situation where the object was to allevi­ate the pain and suffering for patients who wish to have that pain and suffering put to an end." 
Schwartz said Andreyev's condition was one "where she had no hope of a normal life, where her every day was wracked by pain, where she could not sleep because of her condition." 
"Each additional day was a day of horror and dread," he said. 
Andreyev died in a Waterford Township house owned by a Kevorkian supporter. The same house was used the last time Kevorkian assisted in a suicide, said police Officer William Himmelspach. 
Kevorkian and four friends of the woman were present at the death, the attorney said. Also present were Kevorkian's sister and the homeowner. 
No one in the bouse was de­tained by police, Himmelspach said. 
Andreyev was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1986, when her cancerous right breast was removed, Schwartz said. Despite chemotherapy, the cancer spread to her left lung, which was removed. By 1991. her other lung was infected, and cancer had spread to her breast bone, he said. 
She was single and had no children, Schwartz said. Her parents are dead, and she had no siblings. One family member -a cousin from Scotland ­was aware of her suicide plans. 
Andreyev had approached Kevorkian through letters and received counseling over the telephone, Schwartz said. 
Kevorkian had met with An­dreyev's oncologist about her condition and had seen her medical reports, Schwartz said. 

The Observer/ Tom Zipprich 

Daydreaming 

Overlooking the DeBartolo Classroom Building, junior Ben Roese works in the study loft of Alumni Hall. Students hurry to finish last minute studying as they anxiously await Thanksgiving break. 
Doctors should ask old if they're abused 
NEW YORK (AP) -Doctors should routinely ask elderly patients if they are being abused or neglected, a problem affecting perhaps 2 million Americans every year, the American Medical Association said Monday. 
Mistreatment occurs in men and women of all racial, ethnic and socioeconomic groups, and most physicians will encounter some in their patients, the AMA said. 
The document by the nation's largest organization for doctors recommends such questions as: 
•Has anyone at home ever hurt you? 

•Has 
anyone ever scolded or threatened you? 

•Have 
you ever signed any documents that you didn't un­derstand? 

•Are 
you alone a lot? 

•Are 
you afraid of anyone at home? 


"If you don't ask, you won't find out," Dr. Mark Lachs, co­author of the guidelines, told reporters. 
The interview and a thorough physical examination should be done apart from the patient's caregiver or any suspected abuser, the guidelines say. 
Doctors should ask how and when any mistreatment occurs, who does it and how the patient feels about it and copes with it. Doctor who suspect abuse should report it to authorities. 
If the patient appears in im­mediate danger, the doctor also should consider putting the pa­tient in a hospital or getting a court order for protection. 
The AMA also said doctors can play a crucial role in identi­fying and preventing abuse in nursing homes and other insti­tutions. Residents have the right to be free of physical re­straints or mind-altering drugs given for discipline or conve­nience, the guidelines say. 

Soup kitchens prepare to set many places for Thanksgiving dinner 
(AP) It's not official like a gov­ernment statistic, but you don't need an economist to see that what might be called the Hunger Pain Rate is rising across America. 
Food pantries and soup kitchens from Hawaii to Florida are prepared to set many more places at Thanksgiving tables for entire families. 
"You see, here's the thing," said Rev. Hezekiah Stewart, head of the Watershed Human and Community Development Agency in Little Rock, Ark. "There are a lot of people out here with jobs who also need assistance. They're living right at the poverty line." 

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

A workshop tor couples in a senous relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992 6:30 -10:30 pm 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 

THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP 
' 


BUT... REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY NOV.30 
Applications can be filled out at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Call 239-5241 for more information 
As Little Rock goes this Thanksgiving Day, so goes much of the nation, where an estimated 30 million people now go hungry on a daily basis. 
"We are seeing an increase in the number of families coming into our dining rooms," said Laura Knox, spokeswoman for St. Vincent de Paul in Phoenix, which expects more than 4,000 people Thursday. 
"In the past, it mostly was the individual male," said Knox. "The environment in our dining halls have really changed with all these kids." 
The Census Bureau reported that poverty reached a 27 -year high in 1991 while household incomes fell. Requests for emergency food aid increased 26 percent in major American cities last year, according to the 

U.S. Conference of Mayors. 
The estimate of more than 30 million Americans going hungry came from the Tufts University Center on Hunger, Poverty and Nutrition. 
A line began forming before 6 
a.m. Monday at the Northwest Harvest's food bank in downtown Seattle. By the time it opened at 9 a.m., several hundred people were waiting. Each received a turkey hindquarter and small sack of rice. They also could take noo­dles, navy beans, bread, onions, potatoes, cabbage and canned goods. 
Salvation Army major Chris Buchanan in San Francisco, where three dining rooms plan to serve 5,000 people, observed with alarm "the absolute panic of people expecting to be in se­rious trouble." Some people are already asking about Christmas meals. 

On Hawaii's hurricane-rav­aged Kauai Island, the Salvation Army, hotels and the county will be host of a Thanksgiving Day meal, with free toys for children. 
Hard as hunger and loneliness can be, admitting it can cause the deepest ache. 
"There's a stigma about ask­ing for help," said Bill Carey, director of the Missoula Food Bank in Montana. "There's a frontier spirit here. Sometimes people will come and ask for a friend or a family member: 'Can we have some food to take?' because they won't come in." 

For Single and Married Notre Dame and St. Mary's Faculty and Spouses Sunday, December 6 3:00-7:00 p.m. 
A time ofq11iet and personal reflection, IIIC retreat will include opport1111ity for shared reflection. Presentations will focus on/Ire biblical texts of Advent. 
Place: Fischer Graduate Community Center Cost: The retreat will conclude with a pizza supper for which there will be a $3.00 charge. 
1.1 

CALL BY WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2, TO RESERVE A PLACE (?MPUS

MINISTRY

Contact Fr. john Gerber, C.S.C., Fischer Graduate Residences 239-8606 or Sharon at Fischer Community Center 239-8607. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer 



U.N. to escort relief convoys 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP)--U.N. officials, angered by disruptions of their relief efforts, said Monday they will send armored vehicles to escort food convoys to two of the most food-starved cities in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 
Fighting at Sarajevo's airport forced U.N. officials to suspend operations Monday afternoon and cancel the day's last two re­lief flights. 
"Every week we are attacked, shelled, turned back, diverted," said Jose Maria Mendiluce, the 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees' special envoy to Bosnia. "We have assumed a very important responsibility ­to keep alive the victims of this conflict during the winter. We will do it." 
Western warships enforcing a naval blockade of Serbia and Montenegro stopped and searched two ships in the Adri­atic on Monday, following a U.N. Security Council vote last week to tighten the sanctions. 
Both vessels -one from Ecuador, one from Syria ­were allowed to continue when no contraband was found. 
The Security Council imposed the embargo in May to punish Serbia for fomenting the Bosnian war. More than 14,000 people have been killed in fighting which broke out after the republic's majority Muslims and Croats voted in February for independence from Yugoslavia. 
Serb rebels have captured more than 70 percent of the republic, and Croat forces hold much of the rest. The Muslims hold Sarajevo and little else. 
In New York, Elie Wiesel, who won the 1986 Nobel Peace Prize for his writings on surviving Nazi death camps, said in a telephone interview Monday he will travel to Bosnia-Herzegov­ina this week to visit prison camps there. He did not want his arrival date publicized for security reasons. 
All three warring groups have been accused of purging areas they control of other ethnic groups, but the international community has blamed the Serbs most for creating concentration camps and committing atrocities. 
U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said in Geneva that Yugoslav Premier Milan Panic will go to Geneva on Wednesday to meet with Cyrus Vance and Lord Owen, co-chairmen of the peace talks sponsored jointly by the United Nations and the Eu­ropean Community. Eckhard said the talks were likely to be general. 
U.N. officials said relief con­voys will leave Wednesday for Gorazde and Srebrenica, where Serb forces have cut off the mainly Muslim populations from the outside world. 
They said the convoys would test new commitments by commanders on all sides to let 
U.N. relief workers go where needed, and the control the commanders exert over their forces. 
Only two earlier convoys reached the 100,000 people still in Gorazde, under siege for much of the war. Srebrenica has not been reached at all. 
The 80,000 people in Sre­brenica "are at the very limit of their survival capacity," Mendiluce told reporters. Ear­lier this month, a relief convoy headed for Srebrenica was turned back by Serb militia commanders. 
.. Mendiluce said his agency was intent on getting through this time and would seek world denunciation if Serb leaders reneged on a new promise to allow access. 
Teenagers rob U.N. relief plane in Somalia 
Tuesday, November 24, 1992 



New Homestyle Dinners like Meatloaf, Countl)' Fried Steak, Barbecued Chicken, Ham Steak and Pot Roast. New Homestyle vegetables such as Baked Sweet Potatoes, Green Beans, Mashed Potatoes, Broccoli and Cheese and 
~~~~s ~~~~:~~a~l-psles.wHhileobrNeadEand~sh~oney's 
To-Eat Soup, Salad & Fruit Bar may seem like gravy, they're really the H l 0. 
icing on the cake. omesty e mners <li 
303 Dixie Way South, Roseland 


Going to C 
areas and prevented boats from using the main ports. Relief agencies in Mogadishu and Kismayu have been forced to cut rations in half. 
Some aid officials estimate as much as half the estimated 240,000 tons of food and sup­plies delivered to the Horn of African nation this year have been stolen. Meanwhile, as many as 300,000 people have already died of starvation and 2 

o or 
giving? 

The VIC Theatre Presents 
Poor Boy Recording Artists 
FREDDY JONES BAND 
Wednesday, November 25, 1992 3145 N. Sheffield 
(corner of Belmont & Sheffield) 
w/Special Guest: The Junction 
All Age Show ONLY $6 

Ticket Info Ticketmaster (312)559-1212 The VIC Box Office (312)472-0449 
Doors 8 p.m. Show 9 p.m. 







Business 
Tuesday, November 24, 1992 page 7 

Grazin speaks on European business needs 
By JOHN LUCAS nation of the information col­Business Writer lected by the returning stu­dents. 
As part of the Notre Dame The Council has worked since Council for International Busi­1989 on a global basis to set up ness Development's "Council internships for Notre Dame Weekend," economics professor students, according to Andrew Igor Grazin spoke this past Kiel, president of the Council. Saturday evening on the topic of These internships have the needs of Russian and ranged from as close to home Eastern European business. as South Bend, to as far away 
Grazin, a former member of as Malaysia. the Supreme Soviet and former General Legal Council at the "These programs really work University of Tartu in Estonia, is for students by letting them working to further current gain practical experience," Kiel Council interests and programs said. in Eastern Europe and Russia According to Grazin, approx­by educating members on the imately 10 Notre Dame students possibilities of internships and spent last summer working on the special training they may Eastern European and Russian need to work in those intern­business internships. 
ships. "Because of the significant 
Made up of approximately roles of the post-communist 100 members, the Council con­countries, we we must decide vened last weekend to discuss whether and how to strengthen several different aspects of the their markets ... internships help "internationalization of busi­us target specific areas," he ness," according to Grazin. said. 
Grazin stated that the work of Grazin expects the figure of The Observer/Marguerite Schropp the Council in expanding their students travelling to the post­Professor Igor Grazin spoke Saturday evening at a dinner sponsored by internship programs in post­communist countries to rise, the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development. 
communist markets is essen­and then eventually hold the problems with the Eastern and the Russian Republic, he tially a three step process. around 25 students. European program that he stressed that his contributions 
First, the Council must ex­"Right now, we must work to 
hopes to remedy is that many are only helping an established pand the number of internships establish firm relations with our students are learning too late effort. available. internship partners," he said about the internship opportuni-"We're not inventing a new 
The second step is developing In the city of Moscow alone, ties available to them. bicycle... the Notre Dame further special training for Grazin cites Honeywell Corpo­"Our main shortcoming is that Council has been very success­those students selected to go. ration and Commersant, a Rus­students, particularly freshmen, ful in the past in assisting stu­That training would consist of sian business organization, as learn too late what is available dents. The Eastern Europeanlanguage and business two groups that have hosted to them," he said. and Russian perspective is a education that would prepare Notre Dame students in the As eager as Grazin is for the part of the Council that per­them for Eastern Europe. past. development of the Council haps, becomes very significant
The final step is the dissemi-According to Grazin, one of programs in Eastern Europe in the future," he said. 
French farmers target Coca-Cola plant 
PARIS (AP) -About 250 Coca-Cola "is the biggest pressure on them. The mostly white wine, by Dec. 5 farmers shut down a Coca-Cola symbol of an America that agriculture accord, announced unless the subsidy disagree­plant today to protest a farm wants to extend its hegemony Friday, has outraged them. ments are overcome. agreement between the United more and more," said Herve The agreement would cut The protest that shut down States and the European Com­Morizet of the National Center subsidized EC agricultural ex­the Coca-Cola plant for about munity, stepping up pressure on for Young Farmers. ports by 21 percent and reduce three hours was organized by the French government to veto Said Cyriec de Salaberry, production of some crops, par­the Young Farmers and the the accord. Coca-Cola's chief spokesman in ticularly oilseeds. The pact re­National Federation of Farm 
Police ringed the production Paris: "It's too bad that the moved the main obstacle to a Unions, France's largest farm plant at Grigny, south of Paris, farmers have taken Coca-Cola long-delayed world trade organizations. as farmers burned tires on the as a symbol of the problems agreement under the General In a related action, about 100 grounds and called for an end between France and the United Agreement on Tariffs and farmers drove tractors into the to "American hegemony." No States. We have a long history Trade, or GATT. southern city of Valenciennes violence was reported and the here." Washington has threatened to today, blocking traffic and dis­farmers dispersed shortly be­French farmers complain that slap $300 million in tariffs on playing banners that called the fore noon. Washington is exerting undue EC agricultural products, agreement "treason." 

million to settle charges stemming from its audits of what turned out to be some c:'lf the country's costliest savings and loan failures. 
The government's financial regulatory agencies, including the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp,, said the $400 million would settle allegations of lax auditing procedures that they made in an accompanying l~;i}~JPalot~ I document. 
That document 
Ernst & Young;~ . . . ...... . four of the better-known failures of recent yefl.rs an estimated cost .tQ .... · 
government of$4.5 billion~ · 
Marietta purchases GM Aerospace 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Martin Marietta Corp. said Monday that it will purchase General Electric Co.'s aerospace business for more than $3 billion to create the world's largest aerospace electronics company. 
"The defense budget is clearly declining, and the industry must consolidate," said Martin Marietta chief executive and chairman Norman Augustine. "The companies that do consolidate early will be the survivors. 
"There is room for strong survivors," Augustine said. "There is no room for weak companies." 
General Electric will receive cash and $1 billion in convert­ible preferred stock in Martin Marietta. The Bethesda, Md.­based company will expand its board of directors by two members to be nominated by GE and supported by Martin Marietta's management. 
George Podrasky, a securities analyst at Duff & Phelps in Chicago, said each major de­fense company is developing its own strategy to deal with the decline in the defense budget. 
"Martin Marietta has been interested in acquisitions and has tried to get LTV Aerospace (earlier this year) and did not succeed," Podrasky said. "I think if your sole or dominant focus is defense, then acquisi­tion can make sense for you." 
The two companies, however, characterized the deal as a merger. 
"This will be the largest aerospace electronics company in the world with unmatchable reach, reputation and resources of no other," said John Welch Jr., president and chief executive officer of GE. "While GE Aerospace is a world-leader in technology, it is one of sev­eral. So we looked for a busi­ness combination that could make us unique ... not just survive but to boldly move in the direction of global growth." 
The executives said a task force will recommend in no more than six months whether jobs need to be eliminated. 
However, Welch said he was certain that the Burlington, Vt., facility, which designs and manufacturers aircraft arma­ment and mobile air defense systems, would remain intact because it is so unique. 
With the addition of the GE operations, Martin Marietta's annual revenues will nearly double, approaching $11 bil­lion, including about $3 billion in sales from commercial and civil government customers. 
GE's aerospace division had revenue last year of $5.3 bil­lion, nearly as large as Martin Marietta's total 1991 revenue of $6.1 billion. 
Profit on GE's aerospace di­vision was $655 million last year, more than twice Martin Marietta's corporate profit of $313.2 million. 

Financial ministers discuss currency devaluations 
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP) ­European Community finance ministers met today to consider ways of propping up their faltering economies in the face of a third currency realignment in 10 weeks. 
The EC's Monetary Commit­tee on Sunday announced that the Spanish and Portuguese currencies would be devalued 6 percent today. 
The move demonstrated the fragility of the EC's system for keeping all its currency values closely linked. The trading bloc's economic turmoil has weakened hopes that the community will be able to meet its ambitious goal of economic and monetary union by century's end. 
The devaluations were made necessary by the continuing strength of the German mark, which is bolstered by interest rates that are being kept high to finance the country's unifi­cation. 
The mark's strength has left other economies comparatively weak. Devaluation makes a country's exports cheaper and tends to boost its economy -but imports become more ex­pensive and can fuel inflation. 
"We will be turning our minds to growth and the prospects for the European economy," said Norman Lam­ont, Briton's chancellor of the exchequer. He was chairing the daylong meeting at EC headquarters. 
The meeting could include discussion of a proposed initiative to boost EC members' economies by increasing spending on public works -similar to President­elect Clinton's proposal for stimulating the U.S. economy. 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, November 24, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Exposing abortion's 'truths' 
The Father will 'correct' his children 
Y£AH, I JUSTHAV& ON/3QU£S­TJCW: IUHtN ARE Ne 60/N(j 7D F/NAUY Ra.INC?UP TH&BABY­KJU!NG, I?JY&I<TY-PIMP!NG, TAX­
HIK/~5CIJM-HEAO ti10{JCRj/1£5, ANI?Fl/J9-f THeM OUTCF 7H/3 PARTY(Jz.IC& ANO FOR. AU ? 
Get up, stand up, and volunteer for a great cause 
Dear Editor: out, no set times you have to be I have currently been volun­there, just stop in at any 
teering at the Saint Joseph's convenient time for you Adult Day Health Center, lo­because they could always use cated at 624 N. Notre Dame the help. Avenue, for about five weeks. The health center staff is very So far, it's been an enlightening friendly, and they help you feel experience for me. I feel that comfortable with the many of us, the students, do not participants if at first you are realize the many needs of the nervous or afraid. elderly in our community. 
They need someone to talk, Working at the health center eat, play, exercise, and pray was something new for me be­with just like you and I. Since cause three of my grandparents 
beginning volunteering, I've have passed away and my other noticed how they enjoy to be grandparent is very healthy able to sit down and talk with a still, so I never had seen the volunteer, especially one from problems the elderly Notre Dame, because it gives community face until I volun­them an incredible feeling of teered. 
importance and love. So get up, volunteer for this 
With the location of the center great cause! It will not only 
being so convenient, one block make the participants happy, 
south of Club 23, I think it is but it will also leave you with a 
our responsibility as students to feeling of virtue. 
go down there someday and Troy Cusey 
lend a helping hand. Keenan Hall 
There are no contracts to fill Nov. 13, 1992 
)vj;~~&j ---"""'===~~!!iiii~~9~~~~~~~11ii•~=-­
GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'Coexistence is what the farmer does -to the turkey until Thanksgiving.' 

Ann B. Davis 
Give thanks you can still submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
Dear Editor: 

I have appreciated the many letters to the editor who argue biblically that acts of abortion and homosexuality are wrong. 
I offer a perspective on abor­tion that I hope will be accepted even by those who do not ac­cept the Holy Scriptures. It is my hope that through logical thinking, even if one is not a Christian, that abortion will be exposed for what it truly is. 
I pose two questions. I answer the first (only after providing the reader with three hints), but leave the reader to answer for himself the second question. 
Question #1: What do you call one who volunteers the most 
Dear Editor: 

In my previous letter, the assertion was made that sin is committed when voting for a pro-choice candidate because of the serious nature of the activ­ity. 
It was also declared that when the voter possesses "sufficient knowledge" of the candidate's pro-abortion posi­tion, mortal sin is committed, as the voter becomes an ac­complice. 
This declaration may seem extreme to a large portion of Catholic religious including the modernist experts. But as Cardinal Hans Von Balthasar observed, many Catholic ex­perts are apostates, i.e., heretics. 
weak and vulnerable members 
of society to be stripped of any 
government protection? 
Hint #1: You will never find this person volunteering himself to be stripped of any and all government protection and thereby allowing others to de­termine his fate. 
He is vehemently opposed to receiving the very hardship that he insists be imposed upon others. The very right he enjoys and tenaciously clings to, is the very right he insists be stripped from others. 
Hint #2: This stripping of rights is done in order to pro­tect one's own liabilities from the biological consequences 
There is absolute culpability when voting for a pro-abortion candidate as millions of Catholics did in this past elec­tion. The American Catholic population, as Pope John Paul II suggested, has lost the sense of sin. 
Catholics can no longer differentiate between right and wrong. The American clergy's legitimizing contraception and divorce through annulment ig­nited the decline into moral blindness. 
The lack of specific moral counsel by American priests including those in academia was appalling. Never before in the history of civilization did the leadership of the Church have a more profound responsibility to he/she (and not the condemned party) has already set in mo­tion. 
Hint #3: This individual is so bent on accommodating sensual pleasure that he/she would not allow another's right to life to interfere with this hedonistic lifestyle. 
Answer: Pro-choice 

Question #2: Why have we al­lowed the adage "one's rights ends when another's nose be­gins" to be selectively absent from out public policy on abor­tion? What breach of reason attempts to justify this? 
Pieder Beeli Graduate Student Nov. 19, 1992 
speak prophetically concerning the monumental issue of abortion. A thunderous silence was heard from the American prelates. 
Because multitudes of Catholics supported pro-abor­tion candidates such as William Clinton, surely God will be compelled to chastise prelates and people. 
If the Father did not correct his faithless children, He would contradict his nature, which is perfect justice as well as perfect 
love. He can never do this. 
Pax! 

Joseph E. Vallely Third Order Franciscan Nov. 12, 1992 
Accent 

Tuesday, November 24, 1992 page 9 
Aconfidential ear 
University Counseling Services help students on variety ofpersonal concerns 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON Partents do not need to be in­abused or are dating a woman 
Assistant Accent Editor formed about a students partic­that has been and what to learn 
ipation in counseling services. how to be more sensitive." 
At times college students have Conselor's can release infor­Appointments for professional many worries and concerns mation only when a patient services can be arranged in that can be overwhelming. The signs a release allowing per­person or by telephone (239­University of Notre Dame sonal files to be disclosed. 7336) at the UCC. There is no Counseling Center and Counse­"People have to come and be charge for the initial visit and line offer numerous services able to talk about what they every appointment thereafter is and programs that provide need, said Dr. Rita Donley, As­four dollars. Students are put support and help to get stu­sistant Director of the Univer­on the honor system to pay. dents, faculty and staff through sity Counseling Center. " Student accounts are not billed, troubled times. Records are protected under said Donely. 
The University Counseling lock and key." The UCC's hours are 9 to 5 Center (UCC) consists of A variety of group counseling Monday thru Friday and there outreach and consultation ser­services are offered. Groups are is a always a counselor on call vices. The outreach services are designed for students who feel in case of emergencies. lectures, workshops and different from their peers For students that simply want programs that the UCC staff of­because of the type of problem information about certain is­fers to any Notre Dame class, being experienced. The groups sues, the Counseline is a system group or organization. The teach the students to feel better which gives students quick, topics that are addressed are about themselves and deal confidential and professional issues related to persnal growth better with life. information from taped and mental health. Consultations are also avail­messages that are accessed by 
able for students, faculty and telephone. The subjects that the 
Consultation services at the staff to refer to to obtain infor­tapes cover student concerns UCC provide help for college mation in regard to situations ranging from depression and students adjusting to the related to students and student­anxiety to relationship change, growth and transition life problems. problems and eating disorders. of college life. Help can be An estimated 10 percent of "Students can quickly access sought for problems and con­the student body has used the information about things in ev­cerns of any type, such as inter­resources available at the Uni­eryday life," said Mary Conlon, personal relationships, time versity Counseling Center, said director of Counseline. management, loss and grief, Donely. And 80 percent of that depression, alchohol abuse and number is from individual The most common problems eating disorders. counseling sessions. that people call in to seek in­
Individuals, couples and The most common problems formation about, said Conlon, groups sessions can be sched­that people come to the UCC to are interpersonal relationships, uled for couseling and therapy seek help for are depression, depression, and eating disor­services. Confidentiality is of alcohol abuse, realtionship is­ders vital importance to the staff. sues, grief issues and sexual Students volunteer their time Federal and State law requires assaults. to answer the phones at the that confidentiality be main­"People always percieve sex­Counseline and put the tapes in tained with the exception of ual assault as a woman's issue for people that call. Students there being a threat of harm to only," said Donely. "We have that volunteer usually work oneself or others. men come in that have been once every week of two. 
SUB's album to highlight ND/SMC campus musical talent 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR South Bend's Miami Street Music Critic Studios, which Hallford called one of the best studios in the 
The album doesn't have a title Midwest. yet. None of its songs have been ''I'm really excited about recorded yet. The man in investing in making this a charge of the project doesn't quality project," he said. "It's know when it will be released something different that people yet. can take away to remember 
But despite a certain school by." 
nebulousness regarding details, Hallford plays guitar for the Student Union Board is Victoria's Real Secret, who will anxiously anticipating the contribute "Fish" to the SUB release of its compilation of project. campus bands' original music, "It captures our style better scheduled to be released during than any of our other songs," the first half of the spring said VRS front man Steve semester. Sostak. "It's the most poppy 
After receiving tapes from 32 song we play." 
musical acts, SUB chose 16 to Victoria's Real Secret is out to fill out the compact disc, which make the art of pop music. Mr. comes as a sort of follow-up to Head just wants to make money 1990's The Jericho Sessions, a with their contribution to the 
19-track Notre Dame sampler compilation. 
produced by campus radio "We want to eclipse Nirvana station WVFI. and Pearl Jam in punk rock suckdom," said Mr. Head "I've seen that there are so singer/guitarist Joe Cannon. many great musicians here, but "And once we have the industry the scene in South Bend makes at our fingertips, we will turn it performing are my favorite from The Jericho Sessions are Me" for the sampler, which was 
over." things to do," said Lord. "And Chisel and XYZ Affair, each of restricted to original music. 
it difficult for them to be heard," said SUB Music "We are money sluts," added this is the perfect opportunity which was a favorite on the 
bassist Dave Holsinger. for other people to hear my earlier Notre Dame sampler. SUB also chose Thee Accent,
Commissioner Ryan Hallford. "Everyone was excited about This project will not yield the songs." Brian, Colin and Vince, Sister Chain, Porkchoppers, B. The Jericho Sessions, but I bushels of yen than Holsinger In addition to Lord's Dissfunktion and Palace 0. the R., 2-10, Bovine Solution 
needs to know. But according to performance of "Angelina," Mr. Laundry, all of whom enjoy and Grope For Luna to record
thought that we could do 
something better." solo artist Emily Lord, the Head's "Weather" and Victoria's loyal followings at local musical for the compact disc. The recording quality and attraction of performing on this Real Secret's "Fish," 13 other venues, will contribute to the "We might get a couple of acts artwork of The Jericho Sessions project is in the sheer acts will be featured on the SUB sampler. in the studio this semester," disappointed Hallford. The new enjoyment of the act. disc. Access Denied, which usually said Hallford. "But the disc will 
Making return appearances sticks to covers, wrote "Follow be out by Spring Break." 
sampler will be recorded at "Writing and singing and 


page 1 0 The Observer Tuesday, November 24, 1992 
Reds' owner accused of racial slurs toward players 

CINCINNATI (AP) -Cincin­nati Reds owner Marge Schott's racial remarks about two former black players hit a nerve in this city. 
A former employee's lawsuit that brought the issue to light has made it a topic on Cincin­nati's call-in radio talk shows. 
Mike McMurray, host of a daily radio talk show on radio station WCKY-AM, said Monday he received at least 30 phone calls during two days last week when the topic heated up. 
"They were either for or against, there was no in-be­tween. She was either guilty of it or not," McMurray said. "I got a lot of calls from people saying, 'She couldn't mean it.' ... There were more defending her." 
Former Reds employees have alleged in depositions taken in a lawsuit filed by former controller Tim Sabo that Schott made derogatory references to blacks and Jews, and kept a Nazi swastika arm band at home. The lawsuit involved Sabo's challenge of his firing in 1991. 
The depositions alleged that Schott referred to two former 
black Reds players  - Dave  
Parker and Eric Davis ­ as her  
"million-dollar niggers."  

Schott denied making those comments. But in a statement taken from her under oath for the lawsuit, she admitted using the word "nigger." 
A message seeking comment was left for Schott on Monday. 
After a meeting with black leaders on Friday, Schott said in a written statement: "While I maintain that these allegations are untrue, if I have said any­thing to offend anyone, it was never my intention and I apol­ogize for any hurt it may have caused. 
"I want to make it clear to everyone and especially to our young people that prejudice and bigotry are hurtful, hateful, unacceptable and demeaning to all people. They have no place in Cincinnati or anywhere. I don't care what color, sex or re­ligion a person is. I judge peo­ple on the job they can do." 
The accusations were made public just two weeks after Schott hired Tony Perez, a Cuban, to manage. Perez said he's never had a problem with Schott. 
Parker said Monday that he has talked to national black leaders to take the matter to the major-league team owners and league president. 
But he said Schott never never made any racial slurs to him. "I would have retaliated immediately," he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the 
• Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
agency serving clients throughout BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY this year. PLEASE help us shop, CALL RICH AT x1 005 South Central Indiana is seeking 219-291-7153 ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple arrange and/or deliver, and shareI NOTICES full-time and part-time counselor I dreams of sharing life with newborn. the blessings of the holiday with caseworkers. Responsibilities ROOMMATE WANTED: Hear us on our taped message. families in need. KATRINA -Have a good day and 
ATTENTION: 

include counseling for individuals, to live w/2 fem. grad students Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800-don't miss me too much overFor more information and 
families or groups and strong case $175, incl. utiI., washer/dryer 467-8522. Monday-Wednesday, 11/23-25: Thanksgiving!! Love, the best assistance regarding the management skills. Master's call277-20651v message 8 a.m.-meet at the esc to go roommate in the whole wide world investigation of financing, business 
Degree in Counseling, Psychology, Forget Thanksgiving I grocery shopping. 
opportunities and work-at-home 

Social Work or related field SECLUDED 4BR 2 BATH Get ready for Christmas with 12 noon-4 p.m.-come to the esc
opportunities, THE OBSERVER required. Salary and benefits COUNTRY HOME NEAR CAMPUS. UNCLE ROSCOE I at any time to help put food in Hey Formal Dates ­urges its readers to contact the 

commensurate with education and 4 MEN OR 4 WOMEN. $210 baskets. Thanks for letting us use yourBetter Business Bureau of experience. Send resume and MONTH PER PERSON, LEASE, 4 p.m. on-Help deliver baskets to apartment, showing us your feet Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., 
cover letter to: DEPOSIT. 272-0806 The Top 10 from Randall RM 202: homes in the area. and kicking ONE of us out of bed !I
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­

Selling a plane ticket to North Love. Alicia and Erin4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­
R. Robbins, Chair Carolina over Thanksgiving break. 10. Please tell me that noise is They need you. Please help us.
9121 or800-439-5313. 

Search Committee Interested? Call Dave at 283-3662. coming from the TV. Call 2639, 4059, or 271-7889 with RR 2 Box 726 9. I can't believe I remembered the questions. TARA-our fav Aussie. We killed WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
Spencer, IN 47460-9678 beer and food but forgot my clothes. God bless, Quang. So-Happy Turkey Day! Miss FOR SALE 8. McFiounder The World Hunger you! Love and gobbles, TYPING 
The Search Committee will begin 7. Did anyone bring a muzzle? Coalition your roomies 
287-4082 

reviewing applications December 2, 6. Hey Dave, keep your hands 
1990 CHEV. LUMINA, 4-DR., 

1992. above the blanketl I'm driving to ATHENS, GA 
WordWorks Typing Service $5,500. 
5. Men are like toilets, either taken (via atlanta) for Thanksgiving & • Steve and Namiki •
Term papers, dissertations, theses EXCELLENT COND. 
Female roommate wanted-Campus or full ofs--I NEED someone to ride with me.
277-7406 CALL BILL 233-4051. 
View Apts. for next semester. Call 4. I'm my own best lover. If interested, please call 283-2454 Happy 1st Erin or Nancy 273-2565. 3. Once every 3.4 days for details. Anniversary!
All WORDPROCESSING services. For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call 2. I don't know how I always Andy 234-8789 Rita Delivery on Campus
Babysitter wanted for occasional manage to fit something that big BOSTON, BOSTON, BOSTON!!! Love, Harry
234-6524

evenings out. Experience & own into something this small I transportation preferred. Pay 1. I'm never sleeping with the two of Desperate student needs ride to (and the boys!) •
ILOST & FOUND I 
SONY INTEGRATED AMPLIFIER 

negotiable. Call277-9682 ext 632. you again I BOSTON for Thanksgiving I Will
135 watts/channel, full remote, EO

LOST -Gold Claddagh wedding pay AT LEAST HALF of expenses! 
NEVER USED. $150/0BO

band in front of Macris Deli I NEED A RIDE PS. Dave, please give us another If you have room, please call BEN Alumni driving from Chicago to 
Jason x2990

HUGE CASH REWARD I TO THE MILWAUKEE AREA chance. We'll even let you touch us at x1658. Pittsburgh. Needs an additional
@@@@@@@@@@

Call Liz 1271 WEDNOV25 this time I Love, C & M rider/driver. Will pick up on campus.
Feel the sun,

CALL JULIE X3736 How many days 'til there's a red Call Fran@ (312) 245-5130 
Feel the sand, 

Lost: headed woman in new jersey? GOLD PULSAR WATCH Ride wanted to CLEVELAND Kirsten, I don't know i'm asking? MARISSA OLIVERI. .. please call me if found for Thanksgiving Break. Happy Belated Birthday. See, you Happy 21st Birthday ... 
TICKETS 

Jen X1271 finally got that personal that you You've been breaking men's hearts 
Will pay for gas, tolls, and maybe See the coast, always wanted. Let's get together and now that you're legal, it's time LOST: BRADSHAW'S BLUE fries along the way Ill Enjoy the culture, and color sometime. KEVIN I to break drinking records in bars. BLAZER AT THE 'NAUGH Jamie Have a great one FORMAL. IF FOUND CALL JOHN Caii284-5254 ..... THANKS!!! All this and more for those YES I At 5:30 today you will Your LeMans roommates AT 283-1505. PEACE. who buy my USC GAs. TO Alumni's Most Incredible: be done!! Come find me at the 
SPRINGBREAKERS. Promote our TINKY AND BUBBA TOP -I'm waiting for you I Hey roommate from freshman LOST: Sister's N.J. license on B.C. Florida Spring Break packages. Go to CALl & not South Bend Thanks for another great weekend I year!!ll wkend name-Meghan Shannon Earn MONEY and FREE trips. with the help of my GAs. Chicago Haser REWARD! call Joellenx4814 Organize SMALL or LARGE groups. My t•t Have a fun time tonight and don't 
Campus Marketing. 800-Clarke 234-9433 Second City Top Fifteen Quotes From the forget the rulelllllllll LOST-AT BRIDGETS AFTER BC 423-5264. @2@2@2@2@2@ *Let's talk about sex baby Cavanaugh Formal GAME, A PURPLE SKI JACKET HaHaHaHa.. 15. Oh, how fun! Gennie, Whitney, Colleen, and La-­WITH A PINK ZIP-OUT LINER. FOR SALE -2 U.S.C. TIX CALL "Shoot the couples" 14. Let's just pound! Letty, Sparky, Shawn and Jan­PLEASE CALL MIKE X1103 AGENCY TED-513-492-5190 Bubba, "you" are whipped I 13. Don't drink any1hing from those Carlos Schmarlos, Mark, Jerome, 
DIRECTOR/COUNSELOR Nice wood floor bottles on the table. Danny, Matt, and Dave--­
Catholic Social Services, a **FOR SALE-USC GA** I've never ... 12. Hey guys, which one of them is LOST IN THE FIELD FRENZV Bloomington based counseling x3860 popped a red zit on my butt cheapest? I only want to spend Cranberries red AFTER THE IRISH VICTORY: agency serving clients throughout OH GROSSI $50. Blueberries Blue Blue Noter Dame w/ about 8 beer South Central Indiana is seeking a The Dance-Roxanne 11. I can't believe they didn't like Turkey is dead 
caps snaped to it. full-time director/counselor to work Out of Control Moon River. Eaten by you. 
I PERSONAL 

A Green snap on hood. with a strong supportive board. Don't think about it, just swallow 10. I'm gonna die! A Blue snap on hood. Responsible for daily operations of Hey Niff You're not overreacting 9. So you're not 21? Mashed potatoes 
agency, program development, He's got The PEE Shakes 8. I don't really think he opens for Corn and beans $$$$ CASH $$$$$$$$ fundraising, and public relations in OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES Just wait for the ultimate Garth Brooks I hate tomatoes $$$$ REWARD $$$$$$$$ addition to part-time counseling. Thumb War 7. I can't believe he forgot to leave And poultry spleens. 
Requires strong organizational, ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. We Love you guys a tip. Happy Happy I Joy Joy! interpersonal, and communication family can provide financial security, Friends Always, 6. Who is Evan Williams? Gobble gobble Ren & Stimpy Rules skills. Master's Degree in excellent education and wonderful The two greatest & most unique 5. I think this couch folds out into a cluck cluck 
Counseling, Psychology, Social future for your baby. Confidential beer bongersl bed. Don't wobble Work or related field required. and legal. Expenses paid. Call 4. A pomegranate is not a Or upchuck HELP ... SKI SEASON IS NEAR Ill Preference will be given to Cyndi and AI collect any1ime (805) vegetable. 
BUT my SKIIS are NOT HERE. practicing Catholics. Salary and 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241-ANDREA CAVANAUGH-HAPPY 3. Guys, I have some sort of rash Happy Thanksgiving!lll! LOST: Two pairs of downhill skiis in benefits commensurate with 5535. 21ST FROM ERIN AND THE on my chest I blue ski bag,(Rossignol 4S & K2) education and experience. Send DRINK MONITORS ... I THINK 2. Where did our dates go? LAST SEEN: Farley Hall , but could resume and cover letter to: MEN AND WOMEN 1. No, I don't mind getting the car­be anywhere. I know, pretty difficult FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE l'd like to be alone for 1 0 minutes. Guadalupe Hidalgo to "lose" ... R. Robbins, Chair For more info, call COSIMO'S Hey, SZABO II May you never have Thanks Lisa, Terri and Amanda. Does not rhyme with Chicago Please contact Paula w/ and for Director Search Committee 277-1875. to swear to become a priest infront We had a great time! Love, Are words like party and pork info @ 4271. Reward if found. RR 2 Box 726 of SUDS again. Happy 21st The Quad Used as verbs in New York? Thanks. Spencer, IN 47460-9678 SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK birthday! -from the half of the SMC I've got an burnin' in my loins 
I 
'931 JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA staff you hooked up with. Ciao Michelle (SMC)I There's a guy Have you been to Des Moines? The Search Committee will begin FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE out there with a strange accent and Then have you ever known cattle 
WANTED reviewing applications December 2, $$. ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL LOSE FATI Healthy, guaranteed diet a desire to see you again, but like they do in Seattle? 1992. FREEl CALL program. Affordable. Call (616)471-without your phone number ... I've got one lousy dummy 
HELP A DESPERATE TARHEEL 

1-800-426-771 0. 3970. M. 283-4303 Ain't life so darn crummy. 
GET BACK TO NC FOR XMAS BREAK 

I FOR RENT 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS !1111111111111111111111111111 TO THE PERSON SELLING THE THANK YOU to all those beloved ERIC X1757 
VITO'S BARBER & STYLING I "END OF AN ERA" (ND VS. PENN friends who shared in my birthday.
Room for Rent: Non-smoking 
SHOP HELP I STATE) SHIRTS-I know that everyone is as happy asCOUNSELOR/CASEWORKER female grad student. Limited kitchen 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST We have had an overwhelming # of PLEASE CALL ME, I'D LIKE TO I am to have these darn personals Catholic Social Services, a facilities. 288-2232 before 1 pm. 
233-4767 requests for Thanksgiving baskets BUY2. done. HOBBESBloomington based counseling 
Tuesday, November 24, 1992  The Observer  page  11  
Tlllll! OlPl!M CAD.D.JBACK lPBllOJD WIID.D. STAJRT AT u~oo MOON WlBlll>Ml!SJDAY U/lS/91. Classes that will reo~n at :Z:OO 11.m. ll[Zi/..92ACCT 372 05 1322 AMST 334 01 0316 ECON 456 01 4210 ENOL 315F 01 4710 ENOL 317C 01 3726 PHIL 201 06 1990 PHIL 239 01 1464 PHIL 257 01 4031 RLST 201 14 9514 RLST 261 34 9534 THEO 249 01 0383 Closed sections as of :Z:OOcf.m. 11[23[92AC 231 01 0938 ACCT 231 02 1284 ACCT 231 03 1923 ACCT 232 02 3268 ACCT 232 03 2862 ACCT 232 05 2671 ACCT 232 06 1686 ACCT 232 07 2776 ACCT 232 08 1589 ACCT 371 01 2262 ACCT 372 05 1322 ACCT 380 03 1203 ACCT 475 02 4417  ARHI ARHI ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST ARST BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS BIOS CAPP CAPP CAPP CAPP  462 496 134S 150K 212S 232S 242S 246S 292S 326S 230 230 230 362 363 391 391 391 464 490 490 490 ZOZL 344L 407L 407L 411L 411L 412L 412L 253 316 361 452  01 Ol 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 06 07 01 04 01 02 03 01 01 03 04 02 02 01 02 01 03 01 02 01 01 01 01  3647 3654 0146 1154 2356 2361 1250 3464 3346 0509 0932 1328 0737 2693 0549 0393 1296 1690 3111 0677 1994 2439 0493 1305 0375 2718 2234 2308 2613 0587 0531 2763 1683 3371  ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL  204 300A JOOC 301 '301C 310 311 312 314B 315F 316F 317C 319B 319E 325 329 340 379C 384A 390B 412C 413E 414B 416I 416J 417 422 426F 428Z 433B 440 440B 455B 461C  01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 OJ 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  4063 4221 4223 0648 0966 0884 0623 0808 3756 4710 4124 3726 4224 4216 1021 0892 1531 4225 3764 4226 4227 3770 4713 4228 4634 4245 1022 4230 4231 3784 4233 2039 4234 4236  GOVT GOVT GSC GSC GSC GSC HIST H1ST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST  407 424 341 424 493F 498 116 116T 116T 116T 116T 309 309A 311A 327 327A 331A 348A 357A 359 359A 365 365A 391 396 399 403 403A 410A 415A 435A 454 454A 460  01 01 01 01 01 01 01 03 04 05 06 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  1390 3410 0277 4734 4700 1240 2649 3246 0612 0728 0950 3535 4299 4301 2460 4302 4287 3951 4288 4306 4307 0132 4290 1938 1427 3356 4289 4291 4293 4308 4294 3537 4311 1025  MBA MBA MBA MBA MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MGT MI MI MI MI MSA MSCI MUS MUS MUS MUS MUS MUS MUS NSCI NSCI PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL  636 636 637 672 231 231 231 231 240 240 499 309 403 433 647 547 212 220 220 220 220 222 225 226 212 412 201 201 201 201 203 221 222 235  02 05 01 01 01 02 03 05 02 03 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 02 03 04 01 01 01 01 01 03 04 06 07 01 01 01 01  1063 1037 4431 0983 3119 2130 3225 2022 0097 2813 4425 3534 4594 3785 4331 1815 1661 3037 0899 3252 4138 1357 0278 0032 4152 3192 2534 1491 1990 3098 1131 4332 0298 4335  RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST RLST ROFR ROFR ROIT ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP RU soc soc  201 201 201 201 201 213 213 240 240 251 261 261 306 351 370 372 499 106 102 103 103 103 231 231 232 236 329 432 482 494 499 376 214 220  08 10 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 32 34 36 38 42 44 01 01 01 03 04 05 07 01 04 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  9508 9510 9514 9516 9518 9520 9522 9524 9526 9532 9534 9536 9538 9542 9544 0391 0390 2236 3179 1458 0152 0262 1052 2222 4380 4382 2919 4383 4384 3287 1701 4150 2497 2031  
ACCT ACCT AERO AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM  477 480 441L 204 329 384A 389 390B 391  01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  0754 2994 2859 4695 3595 3765. 3935 4699 3439  CE CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CHEM CLAS COTH  356 118L 202 224L 224L 334L 334L 423 204  01 07 01 02 04 01 02 01 01  0589 2280 1666 1080 0234 0492 1556 3725 3503  ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL ENOL FIN FIN  465 479 493F 495B 513B 519F 522A 231 231  01 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 04  2096 4085 4241 4242 4220 4246 4218 2447 1174  HIST HIST HIST liPS liPS liPS LAW LAW LAW  460A 489 699 493 507 673 605 631F 676A  01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  4312 4296 1122 4562 3422 4591 2364 0555 2673  PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL  239 242 244 245 246 247 248 250 257  01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  1464 0717 0022 3548 2483 4338 4030 3551 4031  soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc  234 242 242 302 320 346 379 419 421  01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01  3556 3982 0562 4391 4393 3562 4395 3857 3308  
AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AFAM AL AL AL AL  401 419Z 420 454 479 212 212 212 212  01 01 01 01 01 02 04 05 06  4747 4698 4620 3536 4084 1941 2359 2711 0020  COTH COTH COTH COTH COTH COTH COTH CSE CSE  204 205 205 211 435 436 440 210 221L  02 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01  4191 3505 4126 4192 4196 4197 4696 0243 4467  FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN  231 231 231 231 360 361 361 361 370  06 07 08 10 05 02 03 07 03  0751 2932 0767 3091 3250 0824 2786 3096 0840  LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LAW LLRO MARK  685 695 695 695 695 695 695 533 231  01 01 02 03 04 05 06 01 01  0307 1449 1668 1459 1675 1831 3201 4375 2865  PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHYS PHYS  261 261 261 261 264 265 464 222 222L  01 02 03 04 01 01 01 02 02  2765 1533 2395 4725 2181 0387 4348 2466 2582  soc soc STV THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO  424 430 250 zoo 200 225 235 235 242  01 01 01 14 17 01 01 02 01  4729 4566 4681 1978 3227 1184 1755 2106 1216  
AL AL AL AL AL AL AL AL AMST AMST AMST AMST ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ARCH ARCH ARHI  212 212 212 212 212 212 212 212 325 334 391 493 328 329 329 336 361 386 389 598B 598F 169  16 17 18 20 23 26 29 35 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  3006 0974 3240 3248 2445 2011 3217 0868 4158 0316 3440 4161 3362 4164 4165 4166 3807 4686 3934 0420 0269 3150  CSE CSE CSE CSE ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON EDUC EDUC EDUC EE EE EE ENOL ENOL  221L 221L 233 411 224 225 421 422 430 434 450 456 487 498 201L 201L 201L 242L 242L 4980 201A 201B  02 03 01 01 01 04 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 04 05 02 04 01 01 01  4468 4469 4474 4471 3051 4205 0538 4209 1383 3597 3745 4210 4779 1768 8401 8404 8405 0162 1929 4478 4214 4215  FIN FIN FIN FIN FIN GE GE GE GEOS GEOS GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT GOVT  370 470 475 476 478 106 364 564 242 362 316F 340 340T 341 342 342T 342T 343T 343T 343T 401 404  04 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 03 04 04 05 06 01 01  3071 0790 2739 3407 1884 1913 4148 4149 1834 4465 4578 1620 4253 3409 1072 1194 0970 2197 2066 2207 4748 0981  MARK MARK MARK MARK MARK MARK MARK MARK MATH MATH MATH MATH MATH MATH MBA MBA MBA MBA MBA MBA MBA MBA  231 231 231 374 374 381 492 495 211 222 226T 226T 324 336 562 571 600 606 607 624 625 627  03 05 06 01 02 01 01 01 01 02 01 03 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  0838 0228 2212 0533 0650 1722 3544 3828 3348 3327 2490 2496 3285 3148 0807 0860 0080 4428 4671 0876 3406 0290  PHYS PHYS PHYS PLS PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY  222L 222L 510L 382 211 211A 341 341T 342 342 342L 342L 350 357 375 403 404 405 441 452 456 585  04 05 01 03 01 01 02 02 01 03 01 03 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  1524 2730 4528 1910 2484 2036 1733 1727 0947 2898 1981 3163 1557 0008 4360 4362 4363 4364 4365 1130 3044 4370  THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THEO THTR THTR THTR  243 243 245 249 250 252 254 262 263 265 267 267 268 281 286 290 396 400 528 276 377 410  01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 53 58 59  1513 4401 2070 0383 0066 0783 1118 0786 4402 0214 4403 4404 4405 3589 2148 4406 1519 4746 4416 9753 9758 9759  



page 12 The Observer 
of the American Hockey League.

NFL STANDINGS NHL STANDINGS BOX SCORE NEW YORK RANGERS-Sent Alexei 
Kovalev, right wing, to Binghamton of the AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
WALES CONFERENCE Pengulna,Rangsrs, Sums American Hockey League. East Patrick Division Pittsburgh 2 1 2-5 SAN JOSE SHARKS-Sent Dale Craigwell, W L T PIS GF GA N.Y. Rangers 0 2 o-2 center, and Michael Picard, left wing, to the
W L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Div Pittsburgh 16 4 3 35 102 74 Firat Parlod--1, Pittsburgh, Needham 3 Kansas City Blades of the InternationalBuffalo 9 2 0 .818 301 183 5-1-0 4-1-0 6-2-0 3-0-0 5-1-0 (Daniels), 6:03. 2, Pittsburgh, Mullen 5
Miami 8 3 0 .727 New Jersey 11 9 o 22 64 68 Hockey League.
269 193 4-2-0 4-1-0 6-3-0 2-0-0 3-3-0 
lndnplis 4 7 0 .364 147 253 2-3-0 NY Rangers 10 9 2 22 77 81 (Tocchet, Lemieux), 16:37. Penalties­TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Recalled Jock 
2-4-0 3-7-0 1-0-0 2-3-0 
NY JeiB 3 0 273 166 226 0-6-0 0-3-0 2-3-0 Philadelphia 8 9 4 20 89 86 U.Samuelsson, Pit (holding), :10; Messier, Callander, center, from Atlanta of the
8 3-2-0 3-5-0 NY (roughing), :10; Wells, NY (holding stick), International Hockey League.
New England 2 0 .182 260 1-4-0 0-3-0 NY Islanders 8 10 2 18 74 79
9 162 1-5-0 2-6-0 2-4-0 2:16; Tocchet, Pit, major (fighting), g;os; COLLEGE
Cantral Washington 8 12 2 18 74 77 
Adams Division King, NY, major (fighting), 9:06; Jagr, Pit CENTENNIAL CONFERENCE-NamedPttsburgh 8 3 0 .727 226 153 S-0-0 3-3-0 7-2-0 1-1-0 3-1-0 (tripping), 13:07; Broten, NY (holding), 17:24. Yale sports information director Steve Ulrich
Houston 6 5 Montreal 15 5 3 33 1 00 70
0 .545 246 197 3-2-0 3-3-0 5-5-0 1-0-0 2-3-0 Second Parlod-3, New York, Messier
Cleveland 5 6 0 .455 167 176 2-3-0 3-3-0 4-5-0 1-1-0 2-1-0 Quebec 12 6 4 28 103 81 executive secretary. 
10 (Amonte, Turcotte), 2:53 (pp). 4, COLORADO STATE-Fired Earle Bruce,
Cincnnati 4 7 0 .364 197 249 2-3-0 2-4-0 3-4-0 1-3-0 1-3-0 Boston 12 5 2 26 82 65 Pittsburgh, Lemieux 24, 6:11. 5, New York,
Wast Buffalo 8 10 3 19 102 84 lootball coach. Denver 7 0 .700 207 1-4-0 1-2-0 Hartford 5 14 1 11 53 87 IONA-Named Lynne Albenelli women's
Gartner 13 (Messier, Patrick), 11:58 (pp).
4 175 6-0-0 6-2-0 3-2-0 Ottawa 1 20 1 3 46 111 Penalties-Stanton, Pit (tripping), 2:24; assistant swimming coach and Kate HellerKan. City 7 4 0 .636 228 172 5-1-0 2-3-0 5-3-0 2-1-0 5-1-0 Paek, Pit (roughing), 8:06; Bourque, NY
San Diego CAMPBELL CONFERENCE men's assistant swimming coach.
6 5 0 .545 187 179 4-2-0 2-3-0 5-5-0 1-0-0 2-3-0 (roughing), 8:06; Tocchet, Pit (elbowing),
Norris Division KENT-Extended the contract of PeteLA Raidrs 5 6 0 .455 176 171 4-2-0 1-4-0 4-4-0 1-2-0 3-2-0 
Seattle 1 0 .091 218 1-5-0 0-3-0 L PIS GF GA 11:13; Loney, Pit, misconduct, 12:33; Wells, Cordelli, football coach, through the 1995
10 73 0-5-0 1-7-0 0-5-0 w T NY, misconduct, 12:33; Messier, NY
NATIONAL CONFERENCE Detroit 13 90269780 season. 
East Minnesota 11 8 2 24 68 68 (slashing), 15:27. TENNESSEE-Dismissed Carlus Groves, Toronto 10 3 63 57 Third Perlod-6, Pittsburgh, Lemieux 25 center, from the basketball team.
W L T Pet PF PA Home Away AFC NFC Div 7 23 (Tocchet), 18:31. 7, Pittsburgh, Tocchet 14
Dallas 9 2 0 .818 263 162 5-1-0 4-1-0 3-0-0 6-2-0 5-1-0 Chicago 10 9 3 23 71 67 (Mullen), 19:35 (en). Penalties­PhiIa 7 4 0.636 Tampa Bay 9 13 2 20 85 88
255 168 5-0-0 2-4-0 2-1-0 5-3-0 4-2-0 K.Samuelsson, Pit (interference), 2:53; King,
Washingtn 6 4 0.600 175 167 4-1-0 2-3-0 2-1-0 4-3-0 Sl Louis 7 11 3 17 69 84
1-3-0 
··N"@••••••ero·ss········

NY (roughing), 6:15; Stanton, Pit (high­
Smythe Division

NY Giants 5 6 0 .455 248 249 3-3-0 2-3-0 1-2-0 4-4-0 2-2-0 sticking), 11 :10.
Phoenix 3 0273 241 2-3-0 1-5-0 3-8-0 1-5-0 Los Angeles 14 2 30 102 81
8 184 0-0-0 6 Shots on goal-Pittsburgh 19-6-5-30.
Central Calgary 13 7 2 28 93 75 New York 14-12-15-41. 
Vancouver 11 8 2 24 92 66
Minnesota 8 3 0 .727 276 174 4-2-0 4-1-0 2-1-0 6-2-0 8-1-0 Power-play Opportunities-Pittsburgh 0 of
Green Bay Edmonton 7 10 4 18 65 88
5 6 0 .455 168 218 3-1-0 2-5-0 2-1-0 3-5-0 2-3-0 4; New York 2ol5.
Chicago 4 7 0 .364 Winnipeg 7 13 1 15 75 89
227 261 3-4-0 1-3-0 0-1-0 4-6-0 3-4-0 Goalies-Pittsburgh, Barrasso, 14-2-2 (41
Tampa Bay 4 7 0 .364 198 256 3-3-0 1-4-0 0-2-0 4-5-0 SanJose 4 16 1 9 57 97
3-4-0 

shots-39 saves). New York, Richter, 6-6-1
8 196 Saturday's Games
Detroit 3 0 273 229 1-4-0 2-4-0 1-1-0 2-7-0 2-4-0 (21-18), Vanbiesbrouck (6:49 second, 8-7).
Wast Quebec 8, Hartford 2 A-18,200.
San Fran 9 2 0 .818 319 182 3-1-0 6-1-0 2-1-0 7-1-0 6-0-0 Boston 4, Philadelphia 3 Referee-Denis Morel. Linesmen-KevinNew Orlns 7 3 0 .700 191 138 3-1-0 4-2-0 1-0-0 6-3-0 2-2-0 Minnesota 4, Buffalo 3 Collins, Gord Broseker.
Atlanta 4 7 0 .364 200 296 4-2-0 0-5-0 1-2-0 3-5-0 1-3-0 Pittsburgh 2, New Jersey 0 LA Rams 4 7 0 .364 200 233 3-2-0 1-5-0 2-2-0 2-5-0 0,4-0 Montreal3, Ottawa 1 Sunday's Gamsa Thursday, Nov. 28 Vancouver 9, Edmonton 0 TRANSACTIONS 
Buffalo 41, Atlanta 14 Houston at Detroit, 12:30 p.m. New York Islanders 4, Calgary 3 BASEBALLMinnesota 17, Cleveland 13 New York Giants at Dallas, 4 p.m. New York Rangers 5, Winnipeg 4 American LaaguaDetroit 19, Cincinnati 13 Sunday, Nov. 28 St. Louis 4, Tampa Bay 2 CLEVELAND INDIANS-Added TracyGreen Bay 17, Chicago 3 Chicago at Cleveland, 1 p.m. Los Angeles 6, Toronto 4 Sanders and Ken Ramos, outfielders, BillMiami 19, Houston 16 Kansas City at New York Jets, 1 p.m. Chicago 2, San Jose 1 Wertz and Shawn Bryant, pitchers, andPittsburgh 30, Indianapolis 14 Miami at New Orleans, 1 p.m. Sunday's Games Alvaro Espinoza, shortstop, to their roster. 
Philadelphia 47, New York Giants 34 New England at Atlanta, 1 p.m. Washington 6, Quebec 4 National LaaguaNew England 24, New York Jets 3 Phoenix at Washington, 1 p.m. Buffalo 4, Philadelphia 4, tie COLORADO ROCKIES-Named PatDallas 16, Phoenix 10 Pittsburgh at Cincinnati, 1 p.m. New Y<>:'k Islanders 5, Edmonton 5, tie Dobson advance scout.
Los Angeles Raiders 24, Denver 0 Tampa Bay vs. Green Bay at Milwaukee, 1 p.m. Mondays Games HOCKEY
San Francisco 27, Los Angeles Rams 10 Buffalo at Indianapolis, 4 p.m. Bos~ 3, Ottawa 2 National Hockey Laagua
San Diego 29, Tampa Bay 14 Minnesota at Los Angeles Rams, 4 p.m. ~ash1ngton 1 , Montreal 1, tie 254
LOS ANGELES KINGS-Recalled Sean
Kansas City 24, Seatlle 14 Philadelphia at San Francisco, 4 p.m. Pittsburgh 5, New York Rangers 2 Whyte, right wing, and Guy Leveque, centar,
Monday's Game Los Angeles Raiders at San Diego 8 P m Detroit 10, Tampa Bay 5 
from Phoenix ol the International Hockey 276
Washington at New Orleans, 9 p.m. Monday, Nov. 30 ' · · Chicago.at Vancouver, (n) League.
Denver at Seattle 9 p m Tuesday a Games ' · · Tampa Bay at Toronto, 7:40p.m. NEW JERSEY DEVILS-Recalled Kevin 303 New York Islanders at Winnipeg, 8:40p.m. 
Todd, center, from Utica of the American Hockey League. Sent David Emma, center, 
10. North Carolina St. 305 

oUtica. NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Recalled Tom 
The Obscrvcr/Chri&tophcr Mullins

SPORTS BRIEFS <urvers, defenseman, from Capital District
NCAA 
continued from page 16 

Arig t! 
meet will prove to be a good ~ experience," said Coyle. r Notre Dame's sixth-place fin­One more year and r ish featured an injury-riddenI team. Senior Nick Radkewich, I'm Legal!I a consistent top-seven finisher 
I 
~ in throughout the regular sea­
I 
son for the fighting Irish, was
I 
r Happy 2Q!b
unable to compete due to in­jury. Freshman Joe Dunlop who showed enormous poten­
f 
tial earlier in the season was 
Elana!

I faithful for nine years, and the
sidelined for the second half of 
Trojan's chances seem to be
I the season due to injury and Troy 
getting slimmer by the day. The
sophomore John Cowan, who continued from page 16 
early line on the game has
I placed sixth for the fighting Love
opportunity for Smith to lift the Notre Dame favored somewhere Irish in this meet, ran the race 
curse which has plagued USC around nine. Not a great omen. Mom, Dad, and Billnursing a leg injury. 
t As McWilliams said, "It was a
I 
good season and a decent
I 
race."

I 
The University of Arkansas beat the second place Univer­
' 
r sity of Wisconsin by a margin 

Mr. Pickwick's Stories for 
t of 41 points to capture the l team title. The Michigan t Wolverines placed fifth beating
I 
Notre Dame by 32 points. The 
I ~ 
a Christmas Evening
Wolverines' strong showing caught Notre Dame, who had beat them two times earlier in 
t the season, by surprise. 
Tuesday, December 1
Indiana Hoosier and
I 
I Barcelona Olympian Bob t Kennedy flew across the finish t line beating the entire field by 
I 
Washington Hall 8: 10 pm
45 seconds. 

t I 
Students $7 

! 
MAPLE LANE 
I 
Non-Students $10 
I 
BARBERSHOP
t I 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 
I 
SAT 8:00-3:00
I r 
~~~

2112 South Bend Avenue 
I 
Appointments if desired 
I ­
272-6722

I 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, 239-8128
I 
Serving tli.e 'J{sJtre 'Dame 
r 
Sponsored by: SUB, VIVA, & The Student Activities Office.
community for over 30 years
I I I I r 



----------~·­ -·­---­ 
.  .  
Tuesday, November 24, 1992  The Observer  page 13  

Volleyball club loses more than match ..­
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
The men's volleyball tourna­ment at the J.A.C.C. on Sunday was a mix of good and bad for the volleyball team, but the bad was extremely bad. 
The Irish defeated Michigan 15-7, 15-12, 14-16, 8-15. 16-14, and lost to Michigan State 4-15, 13-15, 15-13, 11-15, but the biggest loss of the day was middle hitter P.J. Stettin, who suffered a broken lower leg and dislocated ankle early in the fourth game of the Michigan match. 
Stettin was going up to block a Michigan spike when he landed with his foot at a very ugly angle, holding up the game for nearly twenty minutes. 
Stettin's injury came just be­fore the Michigan State game, and drastically affected the out­come of that match. 
"When you lose a starter, you have to change your rotations to accommodate the injury, and that usually affects team play," said club president Pat Madden. 
"We had trouble adjusting to throughout, winning 16-14. their serves, which led to good The Michigan State game, blocking on (Michigan State's) however, was a different story. part." Faced with a strong Spartan 
Vice-president Brian Ceponis squad and the loss of a key added, "We gave them the first player, the Irish never really game. Passing became a real seemed to get going in the problem, especially with the match. MSU romped in the first lineup changes we made for game, and the Irish failed to P.J." help themselves with three 
In the first match, the Irish service errors. were all over the Wolverines in In the second game, the Irish the first two games, led by Ce­again seemed confused, ap­ponis' 12 kills. At one point in pearing at times to be playing game two, the Irish were down from behind although they led 10-7, but they outscored Michi­often during the match. It was gan 8-2 afterwards to take the an intense game, but most of game. the points scored by both teams 
In game three. the Irish led 8-were the result of opponents' 2 but then came apart, losing unforced errors. The game 15-13. The fourth, with Stettin's ended with Michigan State injury, was a walk for the winning 15-13. Wolverines, who blocked a red­In the third game, however, hot Ceponis three times en the Irish found their bearings. route to a 15-8 victory. Down 8-4, the Irish called time 
In game five, the Irish were out. Afterwards, Marin took joined for the first time by Ryan over and led the team to a 15­Martin, who had two kills and a 13 vi.ctory with 8 kills from the block at key times. Ceponis and 8-4 deficit. finishing off the Ryan Marin were the other game with a spike that would stars for the Irish in the fifth have knocked over anyone in its game, and the Irish led path. 
Williams: A ray of hope for Irish 


By JASON KELLY Sports Writer 
There is good news and bad news for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
The good news is that Monty Williams is back after sitting out two years because of a heart ailment. 
The bad news is that the Irish need about three more Monties. In Monday's exhibition loss to 
U.S.A. Verich, Williams led the Irish with 17 points and 15 re­bounds. He seemed to be ev­erywhere in the first half, driving to the basket, scoring from outside and pulling down rebounds to keep the Irish within striking distance. But Williams appears to be the team's only weapon and that doesn't bode well for Notre Dame's chances this season. 
He cannot single-handedly carry the weight of a schedule that includes five of the nation's top seven teams, and he is feel­ing the pressure. 
"I was really nervous all day," the senior captain said. "I try not to put too much pressure on myself, but I want to prove to Coach (John) McLeod that I can contribute." 
McLeod knows he can con­
$2.99 

AT DINNER IN THE 
OAK ROOM 
ADDED BONUS DINE BfJWEEN 4:00 -5:00 P.M. AND RECEM A COMPLIMENTARY SMALL SOFT DRINK OR COFFEE 

HOUSES
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KEv! 
FOR RENT 93-94

November28 
4 & 5-6 Bedrooms Fully Furnished Security Systems
Love, 

Washers/Dryers
Mom, Dad, 
287-4989
Bryan 

Listed with off­
&Amy 

campus housing 
Game 4 saw a good general performance by the Irish, but most scoring opportunities were stifled by the Spartans. The Irish managed to tie the score 8-8, but from then on MSU controlled the game, winning when a Marin shot failed to clear the net. 
Ceponis said, "There were plenty of positives (in the MSU match). We didn't give up, and we were right in it most of the time." 
Madden added, "I'm happy with the games we won, but we've played a lot better. It was just tough having P.J. out of there." 
With a look of determination bred by frustration, Ceponis vowed, "We will beat Michigan State this year." 
Much of that will depend on the recovery of Stettin, who faces surgery today and a long recovery, but the Irish demon­strated enough balance and talent on Sunday to bring Ce­ponis' goal into reality when the regular season begins. 
Equestrian team places several individuals 
Observer Staff Report 
The ND/SMC equestrian team 

competed at a show at Ball 
State over the weekend and 
several riders placed well. 
In the western sideseat show 

on Friday night, Jennifer 
Leitow placed second in the 
Open Flat competition while 
Erik Ivanovich took top honors 
in the Advanced 2 division and 
Tara Hooper finished fifth in 
the Intermediate 1 division. 
In the morning huntseat 

competition on Saturday, 
Ivanovich took first in the Ad­
vanced Flat competition and 
Julie Barry took first place in 
the Beginning Flat division. 
Becky Rombalski fmished third 
in the Advanced Flat and, 
Megan Turpin placed third in 
Novice fences and fourth in 
Intermediate Flat while Karen 
Ready finished fourth in the 
Beginning Walk/Trot division 
Emily Lincoln took third in the 
Intermediate fences and fifth in 
the Intermediate Flat. 
The placing in Saturday 

evening's stockseat show 
matched that of Friday's with 
Ivanovich and Hooper placing 
first and fifth in their respective 
events. Leitow placed first in 
the Open Flat division and sixth 
in the reining competition. 
On Sunday, Ivanovich cap­

tured another more first place 
honors in the Advanced Flat 
division and Turpin placed first 
in the Novice fences and second 
in the Intermediate Flat di­
vision. Barry was second in the 
Advanced Flat division while 
Carolyn Smith placed fifth in 
Novice fences and eighth in 
Novice Flat. 
Monty Williams 
tribute, the only question is his conditioning. 
"Tonight was a good condi­tioner in itself just to go for thirty minutes working hard, huffing and puffing," MacLeod said. "His effort is good, but he still needs to go through the practices and training to get where we want him." 
Where the Irish want him is on the court, and as much as possible. He wasn't as strong a force in the second half, scoring only three points, but his stamina will come in time and consistent play will follow. 
But the Irish cannot live on Monty alone, and it showed Monday night. 
Russell and Taylor are the team's only other proven per­formers. Juniors Carl Cozen and Brooks Boyer saw only lim­ited action, and Joe and Jon Ross are seeing the first ex­tended action of their careers 

and without their support, Williams efforts could be wasted. 
And he won't be satisfied until the team is successful. 
"We didn't do the little things we need to do to win," Williams said of Monday night's loss. "But every game is a learning experience and we need to re­group and come back stronger." 
Williams is an expert on comebacks. Doctors said he would never play again when they discovered his rare heart problem after his freshman season. That kind of strenuous activity, they said, could ulti­mately kill him. 
He satisfied his itch to play with two years of pick-up games, but it was never enough. He needed to return to the competition of the college game and this year the doctors finally gave him the green light. 
If he can comeback from those odds, he is the perfect man to lead the Irish against the towering odds that they face this season. He may not be the team's savior, but he does provide a ray of hope for a sea­son that otherwise looks bleak. 
"We did have a few bright spots tonight," McLeod said. "I was pleased with the way Williams competed." 
And Williams is just pleased to be competing. "I just thank God that I am able to play again," he says. He's not the only one. 
The roads are dangerous this Holiday weekend. 
Please drive carefully. 

GAME NOTES 


Tickets are available Los Angeles Coliseum (92, 5~6)~ 
KINGS: Notre·Damei AP: 5 Today/CNN: 5th. USC; AP: ·1 Today/CNN: 23rd. 
E SERIES: Notre Dame leads 36~23•4 and have won meetings. It is the Jontge~>tl streak by either team . At the Coliseum, the series 
15-15~3. 

KEEP YOUR EVES ON ... 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 
"It's Notre Dame versus USC. It's THE game." 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz's comments at his weekly press conference, showed the significance of Saturday's matchup between the fifth­ranked Irish and the 19th-ranked Trojans. 
USC, sporting a 6-3-1 record and two losses in the last three games, doesn't appear to be the powerhouse which over the course of a 63-game series has handed Notre Dame more losses than any other school. But this season has seen coach Larry Smith's team rise from a 3-9 record in 1991 to respectability. 
Six straight loses to end last season, gave way to 5-1-1 record after seven games this year. Wins over Oklahoma, Washington State and Arizona have highlighted a year lacking in consistency, but loaded with promise. 
And as Notre Dame prepares for the Men of Troy, it is the potential, not the inconsistency which scares coach Lou Holtz and the Irish. 
"From top to bottom USC is the fastest team I've ever seen on film, bar-none," commented Holtz. 
The team speed Holtz emphasized is evident on both sides of the ball. The Trojans defense ranks sixth in rush de­fense, allowing just under 100 yards a game. A big reason for the lack of ground success can be accredited to USC's standout quartet of linebackers. Sophomores Brian Williams and Jeff Kopp roam the inside, while bookends 
Rivalry continues with Trojans 
Smith hopes to prevent a decade of NO dominance 
Willie McGinest and David Webb contain 
the outside. 
"McGinest and Williams are 
outstanding football players," said Holtz. 
"We will need to neutralize them to be 
effective." The 6'6" 240 lb McGinest has 
teamed with the 6'4" 225 lb Webb to 
give USC a credible pass rush this 
season. The duo has totaled nineteen 
sacks on the year, and ranks one-two in 
tackles for a loss. 
Notre Dame will not shy away from the ·strength of the Trojan defense. The "Killer B's" backfield composed of Reggie Brooks, Jerome Bettis, and Lee Becton is clearly the strength of the offense, and in recent weeks Holtz has illustrated his desire to make the ground game the focus of the offense. 
"He's a great fullback," Smith said of Bettis after last season's 24-20 Notre Dame win. "The best I've ever seen. He's the core of the Notre Dame offense." 
With McGinest and Webb supplying the pressure, Irish quarterback Rick Mirer may not have much time to pass. In addition, the Trojan secondary is loaded with speed and experience. All but one slot is filled by an returning starter and safeties Stephon Pace and Jason Sehorn have five of Southern Cal's nine interceptions on the year. 
The Irish defense enters the game with more confidence then it has had all season. Impressive performances in back-to back wins against Boston College and Penn State leave Holtz with few complaints. 
"We needed to develop a defensive temperament, an attitude is very important," said Holtz. "And we have and we are staying with fundamentals. (defensive coordinator) Rick Minter has done a tremendous job, and we have gotten better and better. 
"This defense has become very aggressive, even a little bit nasty. They'll hit you when they don't have to." 
USC will put the iiiiproving Irish defense to the test. Sophomore quarterback Rob Johnson started slow, but has improved vastly in the past weeks. At Johnson's disposal is a host of swift, athletic wideouts. Flanker Curtis Conway may be the best of the bunch averaging 16.5 yards a reception. The 6'2" junior ranks seventh in the country in all-purpose yardage (161 per game) and heads the Trojan special teams, ranking fifth in the nation in kickoff returns. Split end Johnnie Morton ranks second behind Conway in receptions and boasts similar breakaway speed. 
"Tailback U." has lacked a sole standout in recent years with Smith preferring a tailback by committee. This year's staff is headed by Estrus Crayton and Dwight McFadden. The two speedsters each average about fifty yards per game, with Crayton receiving slightly more of the carries and is a more potent receiving threat out of the backfield. 
Smith is winless against Notre Dame in five tries as coach of the Trojans, and USC has lost nine consecutive games, dating back to 1983. Other than the battle of unbeatens that took place in 1988, this year appears to be the best opportunity for Smith and the Trojans to end the drought. a feeling shared by Holtz. 

ROB JOHNSON  WILLIE McGINEST  JOHNNIE MORTON  STEPHON PACE  CURTIS CONWAY  
The sophomore quarterback has been impressive this year. Johnson is 13th in the nation in passing efficiency and moving up on the USC passing list.  Junior outside linebacker is an impact player on the Trojan defense and an All-American candidate. McGinest leads USC in tackles for loss.  Junior split end is the Trojan's top receiver this year. Prior to the UCLA game, Morton had 98 catches and nine for touchdowns.  Senior safety was second on the team in tackles last year with 73. Pace is an All-Pac-10 candidate this year and leading USC in interceptions.  Junior flanker is the quicker member of the Trojan team. Conway has scored eight touchdowns this year including one on a kickoff return.  
T~oJan offense  Irish offense  CORNERBACK t Jason Ollnr &-11,1N.JR. 291rwmlmcotn 6-0, 185. FR  
TAILBACK <li·R•fflolr~o.5-I, 2 , SA. • · 4-lee Becton S-11.190. SO. '"1.  
AJI.tBACI( CW.. .....H, 245, SR. 30R"""lotooney6-1.235.SR GUARD  FULLBACK 1-JtromtBanls 5-11,2M,JR. ~i~.'!la~ 1 ~~ 7:¥'lnLyt•  
53 ...... L_,..i-2,211, FA. 69 Davtd ~H  ~  GUARD 16-Toclll Norman H,217,SR. 67-MariiZatavesk· 6-6,282,50 51-Stuart Tyner H273,SR i  

TACKLE 
"

73-Justln Hlllll-4, G4, SR. FREESAFffi 
11Jasoll

~![c-.~ ~~.,;o lsohy
l-5, 2111, JR. • . SthOfli-3.
76Norber1o 
205,JR.
Gomdo 6-7, 
9 Stephoo Pace295, FA 
6-0, 190,JR

TACKlE~~
17-llyllll liMIIIg STRONG SAFETY 5-J,zn,Jft. 11-Jtfllurrts 
~~~ 

INSIDE
92-John Tahalerro 5-0, 1M, JR. 
STRONG SAFETY 6-<4. 226. so 
DIYidWo~~~.~

LINEBACKER 
225, SR. 
~~~~~~~~~ Patt 6~.

31-Dtmetrius
93-Paul Grasmams r;t~~~2ee 
EllcMaholttl-5.

D•Bost
... 245,JR . 468ruce LUIZli6-1.
6-3.255, FR. 

1·2, 234, SR. 
51 JunhwMoll-3, 205, SR
CORNERBACK 6·1,237,JR 
47-Pete Bereich 
13-TomCirttr 
230•JR. OUTSIDE

TIGHT END
OUTSIDE 6·0, 204, JR. 
U-lrvSmllh LINEBACKER
LINEBACKER 23 LaRon Moore 
z• Miit Salma 
~ ~G~~~~ hnll 6-t, 245, JA 45-0twNIIcDea H. 177. SO 
1-1, ZDO, JR. 88 Yoome Jackson &2. 255. SA 
" :o~o:r ~~Bnde
&-.4, 241,SA. 
Irish 

6-5,2S1, JR. 17Lamont 
Trojan

58-Jeremy Nau Hollinquest 6-3, 225,98-Peter Chryplewtcz6-4,234,SO 
6·5, 23S, FR SR.
defense 

88-leonWallace
~s~l~~Jones 
defense

6·3,268, FR 

Today 

Tuesday,••November 24, 1992 Brought to you by DOMINO'S ••page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

... 

Alien corner cafes, where sometimes dreams do come true. 
DOMINO'S DAILY DEAL 
2 Medium 
Pepperoni 

Pizzas  
Call Now  Vahd ar participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Customer pays sales tax where applicable.  
NO  271,0300  Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20. Our drivers are not  
SMC  289,0033  penalized for late deliveries. © 1992 Domino's Pizza, Inc.  


Hair 
Cut 

we c.are hair 
1811 South Bend Ave. 271-7674 
1/API'Y H-\I\NI\">tqi\/IN6J n.zoM 
ALL OF US AT ~PELLN~ER lti\-ID,NOw A WORD FRoM 
OUR TlliWKSU,IiiiM'rl f1JRI<'l?Y .. 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
an 


FADED? 
Revive your tan with our 
EUROTAN 
tanning beds 1 0 for $35°0 or $5°0 per single session with student ID 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Flee, feline!" 5 Culinarian 9Teases 
13 Took measured steps 15 Exceptional 16-Cinders 17 Originate 18 Operatic highlight 19 Cut out sweets 20 Gulf of Mexico food fish 22Assuage 23 Very, in Metz 24Choose 26Scanty 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
30Enoch's grandfather 31 Meat spread 32 Strikebreaker 35 Parson's house 39 Battery terminal 41 Ripen 42 White poplar 43 Evil spirit 44 Kind of jerk 46 Diving bird 47 Ecclesiastic mantle 49 Score 51 Scapegoat 53 Jot 55 Possum of comics 56 TV comic Aaron Chwatt 

62 Town in NEAla. 63 Notion, in Nice 64 Atelier need 65 Descartes or 
Coty &&Boheaand congou 67"-the 
Riveter" 68 Despot 69 Rival of Dashiell 70 "Castle" 
material 
DOWN 
1 Box 2 Solicitude 3 Kind of test 4 Hardy heroine 5-myrtle 
(showy shrub) 6 "Angelic" 
instruments 7 Lake or canal 8 Dreaded 9 Like stocks and 
bonds 
28 Minute quantity 
29 "The Hunt for 48 Source of 54 Corpulent -,"Clancy sulfuric acid 55 Role novel 
so Dilute 57 German river 30 Under the 51 Minute openings 58 N.M. art center 
covers 52 Capital of Guam 59 Greek mountain 33lnstance 53 Standard of 60 No, in Bonn 34 In the past 

perfection 61 Luge or pung36 Inert lamp gas 37Vegas depository 
Get answers to any three clues

38 Counting word 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·

40 A son of Seth 
5656 (75¢ each minute)•

45 Aleutian island 


Sports 
... 
page 16 
GEORGE DOHRMANN 
The Jock Strip 


Nine years an eternity for Smith, Trojan fans 
Nine years. 

In the real world that mark carries no real significance. One short of a decade, one too many for a well-liked president, but in the world of college football nine years is an eternity for a coach and a program. 
And as fifth-ranked Notre Dame and 19th-ranked USC round out their regular season, college football's version of eternity comes to the surface in one of football's most famous rivalries. 
The nine years lingers like a curse for Trojan's coach Larry Smith. Now entering his sixth season, the former Arizona State coach has failed to beat the Irish at USC and has managed only a 3-2-1 record against cross-town rival UCLA. After a 38-37 loss to the Bruins last weekend, Smith needs a win against the Irish to secure a bowl birth, but more importantly, to keep his job. 
USC alumni began the call for a changing of the guard after last season's less-than comprehensible 3-9 finish. but a quick start this season quieted the whispers. But if Notre Dame is able to win its ninth game of the year, USC would finish at 6-4-1 and Smith could be dusting off the resume sooner than he expected. 
Trojan faithful have searched for years to find a replacement for John Robinson, who in six years of coaching, compiled a .819 winning percentage (the highest career percentage among USC coaches). He was also the last to win a national championship, and in 1982 coached the last team to beat Notre Dame. 
Since Robinson's departure the Trojans have fallen from the ranks of the elite, with the drought against Notre Dame glaring as a constant reminder. First, Ted Tollner and now, Smith have attempted to curb the losing ways but have found little success. USC's record since 1982 stands at 70-43-5. 
An inability to win against your biggest rivals isn't the best way to find job security (ask Ohio State's John Cooper). If Smith would have gone 2-9 this year, with both wins coming against Notre Dame and UCLA. odds are he would have more backing from alumni then if he were to go 6-4-1. 
Boosters seemed to lose faith in Smith near the end of the 1988 season when the Irish-Trojan clash mirrored the classics of old. Both teams were unbeaten, led by a Heisman trophy candidate, and staking claim to the national title. Unfortunately for Smith and the Trojans, Tony Rice, sporting the number nine on his jersey, led Notre Dame to a 27-10 win. 
USC has not rolled over in recent years. Since the 1988 game, The Trojans have lost by four points in the last three games. And during USC's nine year winless streak, Notre Dame's average margin of victory is a not so surprising, nine. 
A loss this season may be the last 
see TROY/page 12 
Tuesday, November 24, 1992 

ND cross country sixth McWilliams paces NCAA charge 
By SEAN SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team finished sixth in the nation in the NCAA national meet yesterday in Bloomington, Ind. and Irish harrier Mike McWilliams earned All-America honors for the third consecutive year. 
The junior from Grove City, Penn. placed 24th in the meet with a time of 
31:34.1 over the lOK course. McWilliams is the first person in the history of Notre Dame cross country to win All-America honors in his first three years and is one of only two three-peat Notre Dame All-Americans in the sport of cross country. 
The Notre Dame team ran a strong race, but the performance was far from the team expectation of placing fourth. "We came up a little short," admitted senior team captain John Coyle. 
Notre Dame's less than golden performance was due to a slow start. 
"In the beginning we didn't get out fast enough," said Coyle. After the first two miles, the Irish pack was too spread out and too far back to contend for fourth place. However, the Fighting Irish did run a strong second half of the race. The sophomore combination of Nate Ruder and J.R. Meloro picked up the pace in the final miles to capture the sixth place finish. 
Although Coyle was dis-appointed with the results of the meet, he had only praise for the young team and the way they handled the pressure of this big meet. "They handled this race well, and they didn't back down. I'm optimistic about the future of this team and this 
see NCAA/page 12 

Inexperience, defense doom Irish, 76-68 

By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
The biggest news last night's men's basketball exhibition opener produced was the insertion of Malik Russell into the starting lineup at small forward, as the Irish fell to USA Verich, 76-68. 
The move pushed Billy Taylor into the backcourt and co-captain Brooks Boyer to the bench. But, head coach John MacLeod insisted that the move was not permanent. 
"We made the move because of their shooting guard (Johnny McDole)," MacLeod explained. "We matched up better with Billy on him." 
MacLeod hinted that the starting 
lineup could change throughout the season depending on the opposition. "I think our players are flexible enough to handle it," he commented. 
Last night's starting five was a relatively new unit, and at times it was evident. 
"It is a very active and quick lineup, but we have not spent a lot of time on it," MacLeod said. "It was a typical first game. We were in sync at times and out of whack a lot." 
Both Taylor and Russell responded well to the move, scoring 15 and 10 points respectively. 
"I wasn't surprised by the move because coach (MacLeod) told me that I'd probably be starting;~ Russell said. 
"It's no different. If I'm starting or coming off the bench, I'm just trying to contribute." 
"This lineup makes us better defensively, but tonight we didn't execute very well defensively," Taylor added. 
As the Irish did early last season, they struggled in the man-to-man, as the Verich Reps had a lot of easy and second-chance baskets. 
"Defensively we didn't do what we had been drilling, and they tattooed us on the boards," MacLeod said. "If we want to run, we have to have the ball. We have to block people off the boards." 
Notre Dame, which played everyone, including walk-ons Sean Ryan and Patrick Keaney, in the first ten minutes of the game, was lead by Monty Williams' 17 points and 15 rebounds, and freshman Ryan Hoover had an solid first outing playing 14 minutes and com­mitting only one turnover at the point. 
While MacLeod was shuffling the lineup early in the game, Verich opened up a 27-18 lead and the traveling squad took a 41-35 edge into the locker room at the half. 
Though the Irish settled into a substitution pattern in the second half, they could draw no closer than 53-50 at the 12:28 mark on a Jon Ross' follow. Over the next five minutes, Verich went on a 13-4 streak led by former Ohio State player Ron Stokes, who scored eight of his 15 points in the run. 
Boyer ended the run with a trey, but it was too late for the Irish, as Verich cruised to the win. 
"We have to grow up quickly," MacLeod said of the team's condition. "We're behind schedule. We have to make a move soon because we're running out of time.': 
IRISH NOTES-Notre Dame concludes its exhibition season on Monday at 7:30 
p.m. against the Victorian All-Stars of Australia. The All-Stars have six players who have played on the Australian Olympic team. On Thursday, the
The Observer/ Jake Peters 

.... 
Senior Monty Williams led the Irish against U.S.A.-Verich last night in the JACC Arena. Victorian team lost to Georgia 78-76. 





