The Observer
VOL. XXV NO. 27 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1992· 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Roemer: Students hope for future 

By EMILY HAGE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are the hope for poli­tics in the future, said Con­gressman Tim Roemer {D-In­diana) last night at the Center for Social Concerns. 
His speech was one of three preparatory sessions for the Washington Seminar "Poverty and Democracy in America," a one credit theology course of­fered to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
"I think Notre Dame and Saint Mary's people are the best equipped people to come to Washington," said Roemer. "I think the young people have a lot of the answers." 
It is important for students to "make the step across the abyss and say, 'I am going to so something about what I feel.' I think that's one of the things that Notre Dame excels at." Roemer encouraged students to use their talents by going to Washington to learn the politi­cal system, helping in Ap­palachia, and volunteering at soup kitchens. 
"You are blessed to be smart, 
Tim Roemer 
articulate, born into good cir­cumstances," he said. "I think the mission for you is to take risks." 
Roemer also stressed family values. "I think that govern­ment can help promote family values," he said. Roemer cited the Work Force Development Services, which offers training to the unemployed, as a good example of what the govern­ment can do for Americans. 
"The best family values are not only caring but having pro­grams to help families get through tough times," he said. 
America's economic woes , especially in the Midwest. will have a significant impact on children and families, he con­tinued. In the last 12 years, the percentage of high paying manufacturing jobs has gone from 34 percent to 16.5 per­cent, which inhibits the coun­try's progress toward a more service-oriented economy and better paying jobs, which en­courage family values, said Roemer. 
Children and poverty should also be priorities in the gov­ernment, he said. "Statistically speaking, when you look at children and poverty in this country, you should want to run out and do something about it," said Roemer. One in five children, one in three Hispanic children, and two in five African American children are born into poverty, and one in ten people in the United States are on food stamps, said Roemer. 
Roemer supports shifting fi­nancial support from B-2 bombers and a $30 billion a year CIA budget to fund techno­logical advancement, including high definition televisions, to support for the middle class, helping families afford college. "We're losing our middle class. 
see ROEMER/ page 4 

The Observer/ Maureen Long 



Block and tackle 

Lyons Hall football team members practice their defensive skills in preparation for an upcoming game. lnterhall football relieves stress and encourages healthy competition between dorm rivals. 

Stancato/Woo confront Whisler/Fedesna in runoff election Thursday 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
Since no ticket received a ma­jority of votes in last night's controversial Saint Mary's Col­lege freshman class president and vice presidential elections, a runoff election between Juliet Stancato/Jen Woo and Lisa Whisler/Liz Fedesna will be held Thursday. 
The ticket of Barbara How­ells/Jenn Farley received 17 percent of the vote, Heather McDonald/ Kathryn Petrovic 18 percent, Stancato/Woo received 24 percent, and Whisler/Fedesna 34 percent. Two percent abstained. 
Controversy surrounded Whisler and Fedesna's cam-

SMC Freshman Elections 
5% 2% 
A penalty was assessed to Whisler I Fedesna The Observer/Christopher Mullin 
paign, which was penalized 14 Observer on Friday to wish votes because of campaign vio­them good luck in the election. lations. This ad caused Whisler and 
According to Becky McLain, Fedesna to go over the $50 limit election commissioner, friends set for campaign expenses. of Whisler and Fedesna ran a Although the candidates did birthday advertisement in The not know that this ad would be published, they are held re­sponsible since it involved their campaign. They must count the $14 used to print the ad as a part of their budget. 
"I didn't know about the bud­get. The rules of the campaigns should be posted somewhere," said SMC freshman Mavourneen Michiels, who submitted the ad to The Ob­server. 
The decision to subtract 14 votes was made by a portion of the election committee, Student Body President Tina Carrara and Director of Student Activi­ties Marlene Johnson. Whisler and Fedesna can appeal the decision until 8 p.m. Thursday. 
If appealed, the election committee can accept or de­
cline the appeal. 
The other tickets of How­ells/Farley, McDonald/Petrovic and Stancato/Woo are releasing a formal complaint against the Whisler/Fedesna ticket. 
"We want our class to know so that the outcome of the elec­tion will be true. Because we don't think that it is fair for some to go out of their way to go by the book and for others to not adhere by the rules," said Stancato and Woo. 
Thirteen positions for the Board of the Freshman class were also decided by the elec­tion. Since only 13 candidates were on the ballot all will be on the board. From this group the 
see SMC I page 4 


Working in the DeBartolo Media Resources room, junior Brett Bauer and sophomore Steve Rossigno use a computer with a laser disc system that allows professors to use footage from a video encyclopedia as supplements to the class lectures. 
ND accounting program ranked 6th in United States 
Special to The Observer 
The undergraduate account­ing program in Notre Dame's College of Business Adminis­tration has been ranked sixth in ·
the nation in academic quality by a survey in the industry newsletter Public Accounting Report. 
"It's gratifying to have our peers recognize the high quality of our faculty, students and programs," said department chairman Thomas Frecka. 
NO is normally ranked among the top 10 accountancy programs in the annual survey of accounting faculty and de­partment chairs nationwide. 
The University of Illinois ranked first in this year's sur­vey, followed by the Universities of Texas, Southern California, and Michigan, and Brigham Young University. 
After Notre Dame, Northern Illinois University, the Univer­terviews with students," he
sity of Pennsylvania, Miami said. "This survey helps en­
{Ohio) and Ohio State Universi­
hance our overall reputation
ties round out the top ten. Frecka said the University's high rating helps the students. see Accounting I page 4 

page 2 
Today's Staff 
News Bevin Kolvalic Becky Barnes  Production Classified couple Kim Massman  
Sports Rich Kurz  Systems Harry Zembilas  
Accent Mara Divis Sarah Doran  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-------------------~---------------­
The Observer 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Gorbachev declines to testify •MOSCOW -Mikhail 1 
Gorbachev asked Russia's Constitutional Court on Monday to excuse him from testifying in a trial on his disbanded Communist Party, saying it would worsen the country's political situation. The former Soviet president expressed his objections in a 

letter to the court in Mikhail Gorbachev response to its Sep21 order that he testify, ITAR-Tass and In_terfax news agencies reported. The 13-judge panel IS considering the legality of Russian President Boris Yeltsin 's ban on the former ruling party. Gorbachev, the party chief from 1985 until his resignation in August 1991, was among the former Communist leaders ordered to testify. A aide to the chief judge has said the court could fine Gorbachev 100 rubles -about 40 cents -if he refuses to testify. Gorbachev wrote that he respects the court but that his 
appearance would make him apawn in a political 
struggle between two sides which, apparently, he 
disdains equally. 
Accused sorcerer burned to death 
•SUVA, Fiji -Villagers burned to death a man they accused of sorcery and devil-worship, police said today. Residents of Qilia village set the man's house afire as he slept inside and prevented his relatives from helping him after he ran outside with his clothes ablaze, police said, quoting witnesses. The 57-year-old man died as he hid in a nearby forest while his neighbors pelted stones at his smoldering home, they said. Seven men later were brought to court on murder charges. The Daily Post newspaper said the dead man had been 
OF INTEREST 
•A London Program application meeting for all interested sophomores will be held today at 6:30 p.m. in room 101 DeBartolo. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 28 
VOLUME IN SHAHES NYSE INDEX 157,598.500 +.97 to 228.70 S&P COMPOSITE 

+2.27 to 416.62 
DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+25.94 to 3,276.26
UNCHANGED 613 

GOLD 
-$1.70 to $347.80 
SILVER 
-$.069 to $3.73 
Tuesday, September 29, 1992 
•No Co-dependents Anonymous will have a twelve-step recovery program for men and women who grew up in dysfunctional families and who now seek healthy and fulfilling relationships. Meetings will be in the Sorin Hall Chapel today at 5:30 p.m. and Wednesday at 7:30p.m. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1901: A rebel attack in the Philippines killed 48 Americans. 

• 
In 1932: Fifteen thousand workers at a General Motors 


plant in Detroit began a five-day work week. 
• In 1943: Adolf Hitler's book "Mein Kampf" was published in 
the U.S. 

• In 1950: United Nations troops recaptured the South 
Korean city of Seoul three months after it fell to the Communists. 
• In 1982: Cyanide-laced Tylenol capsules killed seven 
people in Chicago. 


Tuesday, September 29,1992 The Observer page 3 
Frosh Class Council elected 
By ANALISE TAYLOR News Writer 
Each residence hall selected one freshman to represent it on the Freshman Council yes­terday. 
The selection process varied in each dorm, according to 
COCKED 
AND 
LOADED 
For Mature Audiences 
ANDREW DICE CLAY 
IN CONCERT FRIDAY, NOVEMBER Bth 8:00P.M. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Tracks Records, Orbit Records, and World Records CHARGE BY PHONE 235-9190. 
Produced By Sunshine Promotions and Contemporary Presentations 
A STRONG PARTNERSHIP 
AND 
In the past two years, GE has hired more Notre Dame grads than ever before. Why? Just look in the mirror. There's a lot of talent under the Dome. 
Stop by the Placement Office and get all the details. 

Invitational Sign-up: 
September 28 -29 
Open Sign-up: October 12-13 
(• . 
Fast •Creative •Competitive An equal opportunity employer Campus Interviews: November 5-6 

6MILERUN lJJJ({))Pif!Ell?. ll?.TJJN 
senior Pete Castelli. After submitting petitions signed by fellow freshmen, some mem­bers were appointed by hall staff and others were elected by the freshmen in the dorm. 
The council is brought to­gether under the direction of student affairs, and its main functions are raising money for 

There's a lot of talent at GE, too. Couple this talent with technology leadership, strong financial performance and a management team second to none and you've got the recipe for a truly world­class company. 
the freshman class, dealing with pertinent concerns of freshmen, and representing the class in student government, Castelli said. Class trips and activities may be planned at the discretion of the council. 
Class officers will be elected from the twenty-five members, said Castelli. 
Students selected for this year are Lisa Schultz from Walsh; Sara Ford from Pangborn; Missy Deckard from Pasquerilla West; Jim Dowd from Morrissey; Jim Feldmann from Sorin; Ted Donnelly from St. Edwards; Fernando Carreira from Stanford; Amy Newman from Howard; Amy Gardner from Knott; Lonnie Limon from Planner; and Kristi Kolski from Farley. 
Also selected were Lauren Aimonette from Breen-Phillips; Joshua Hodge from Cavanaugh; Ryan Bohr from Zahm; Oanh Vo from Lyons; Eric Schultenover from Grace; Stacey Kielbasa from Pasquerilla East; Michaela Kendall from Lewis; and Vishal Pahwa from Keenan. 
Results from Dillon, Alumni, Badin, Carroll, and Fisher were unavailable at press time. 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
S1()()() 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
~LUS $1000 FOR THE 
MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
No obligation. No cost. You also get a FREE HEADPHONE RADIO juat for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 
Senate approves resolution 
···~. 
By KENYA JOHNSON News Writer 

Student Senate approved the nomination of former SUB Ex­ternal Relations Commissioner Jean Hazard to SUB director of relations and passed a resolu­tion concerning drainage problems on the Notre Dame campus at last night's meeting. 
The position of SUB director of relations was formerly held by Ellen Zahren, who was nominated last week for the position of SUB director of pro­gramming. 
In other business, Jim Penilla, Sophomore class president, and 

BOG discusses spending 
By JENNIFER LACKEY News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance ex­pressed concern about several aspects of campus life at last night's meeting. 
A central topic of discussion was the distribution of money for student activities and pro­grams. Students questioned the small sum of money designated 
for  actual  use  by  student  
groups.  
Members  also  expressed  

iii 1111:1 ;f1s 1 1HOUR PHOTO C PORTRAITS 
016 frskrne Plato • South Benet lndtano 46614 (]19) 290-0600 
5'lvaifa6[e for 
Personal Portraits•Passports• Identification Graduation Pictures Always at a reasonable price 
Just 5 minutes from campus 

The Student Activities Office Presents: 
JIM WAND Master Hypnotist 
Wednesday, September 30th at 8:00p.m. in the Library Auditorium 
Tickets--$3. 00 on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk Starting Wednesday, Sept. 23rd! 

Grab your friends and discover what they really can do!! 
.,91 

Act Like Gorillas, Sing Like Madonna .... 
3MILERUN OCTOBER 10, 1992 10:00am 6MILERUN 
~~ 2 3MILERUN 
frustration regarding the lack of communication between administration and students. According to board members, many changes in campus life have been implemented without student input. "Residence Life has not told or notified students about any of the deci­sions,'' said board member Hoi­lye Harrington. 
Saint Mary's College President William Hickey was unable to attend the meeting because of illness. 
Jason Coyle, Hall Presidents' Council co-chair said a primary concern of students is the campus drainage system, which is "wholly incapable of effectively dissipating large amounts of water." The problem of drainage directly confronts students because "faculty and administration don't see the problems, so they don't understand the problems," said Marianne Ravry, HPC co-chair. 
The Senate recommended designating a committee to assess the drainage problem and suggested solutions to the Notre Dame Administration. 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST TO FOLLOW BEGINS AND ENDS AT THE STEPAN CENTER 
T-SIDRTS TO ALL FINISHERS STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS $5.00 IN ADVANCE, $6.00 RACE DAY 
Register in advance at RECSPORTS IN THE JACC 
a 

page 4 The Observer Tuesday, September 29,1992 


Professors awarded grants 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1,291,681 in grants during August for the support of research and various pro­grams. 
Research funds totaled $1,171,652, including: 
• 
$210,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on thermal front propa­gation by Hsueh-Chia Chang, chairman and professor of chemical engineering, and Ed­uardo Wolf, professor of chem­ical engineering. 

• 
$121,950 from Purdue Uni­versity for research on infrared and microwave magneto-dissi­pation in superconductors by Walter Tomasch, professor of physics, and Jacek Furdyna, Marquez professor of physics. 

• 
$120,000 from Purdue Uni­versity for research on critical current density in supercon­ducting molecules by Paul McGinn, associate professor of electrical engineering. 

• 
$115,609 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on subtle tests of the standard model by Ikaros Bigi, professor of physics. 

• 
$113,651 from the National Science Foundation for halophile research by Robert Irvine, professor of civil engi-


Roemer 
continued from page 1 
They're falling into poverty. They're losing hope," said Roemer. 
He criticized the space sta­tion, which is costing the gov­ernment a total of $120 billion in the next twenty years, be­cause it has only accomplished one of its eight goals: scientists can study the effects of gravity on bodies in space. "We've got a lot of problems right here on earth and we've got to deal 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
president and vice president will appoint a secretary, trea­surer, and people for social, re­ligious activities and fundrais-
Rank 
continued from page 1 
and brings the firms back to Notre Dame." Public Accounting Report is a biweekly newsletter of the ac­counting profession. 
neering and geological sciences and director of the Center for Biotechnology and Pollution Control. 
• 
$108,000 from Purdue Uni­versity for studies of composi­tional modulation in high tem­perature superconductors by Krishna Choudhary, assistant professor of electrical engineer­ing, and Steven Ruggiero, as­sociate professor of physics. 

• 
$90,170 from the National Science Foundation for under­graduate integrated optics re­search by Biswajit Das and Michael Lemmon, assistant professors of electrical engi­neering. 

• 
$84,000 from Purdue Uni­versity for research by Howard Blackstead, associate professor of physics, on microwave dissi­pation in high temperature su­perconductors. 


Awards for service programs totaled $29,679 from anony­mous benefactors for various programs of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
Awards for other programs totaled $48,000 from the U.S. Department of Education for the Jacob Javits fellowship pro­gram administered by Peter Diffley, assistant dean of grad­uate studies and research. 
with them," he said. 
Roemer fears an America in which citizens cannot make as much money as their parents did. "At least providing an op­portunity to have a shot at making it to the finish line. That's what America's all about," said Roemer. "Americans can do anything they set their hearts and minds to." 
Roemer received his graduate degree from Notre Dame, his father is the Director of Community Affairs at Notre Dame, and his mother works at the Center for Social Concerns. 
ing positions. 
The freshman board for this year is: Christine Feller, Anne Hurley, Karen Gerlach, Gretchen Johnson, Janeen Gillig, Susan Osinski, Jayne Gillig, Kara Pavlik, Carol Gomez, Jennifer Roach, Mary Good, Lisa Siefert, and Anne Herrman. 
SECURITY BEAT THURS., SEPT. 24 
9:45 a.m. A Breen"Phillips resident re· ported receiving a harassing phone call. 
5:00 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from outside of North Dining Hall. 
9:27 p.m. Two Breen-Phillips residents reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
10:00 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bicycle from the bike rack outside of Howard Hall. 
FRI., SEPT. 25 
10:34 a.m. A Flanner Hall resident re­ported the theft of his jogging pants from Stepan Reid. 
12:55 p.m. A Howard Hall resident re· ported receiving harassing phone calls. 
3:00 p.m. A Notre Dame student reported the theft of his textbooks at Madeleva Hall, Saint Mary's. 
4:33p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a report of a light in progress in Orange Field. The suspects were separated and ordered to leave campus. 
5:30 p.m. A Breen-Phlllips resident re­ported the theft of her 10 case and keys from the North Dining Hall. 
7:39 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to a two vehicle accident on Juniper Road. No injuries were reported. 
10:18 p.m. A Notre Dame Security officer found two Flenner Hall residents fighting outside of their dorm. The two suspects were broken up and found to be intoxicated. 
SAT., SEPT. 26 

12:30 a.m. Notre Dame Security received a report of a window being busted at Fisher Hall. 
12:42 a.m. Notre Dame Security inves­tigated two suspicious people soliciting a chauffeur service at Saint Mary's and advised them to leave. 
9:55 a.m. Notre Dame Security, assisted by MikoJajewski Security, found two suspects soliciting T-shirts in Red Field. The T-shirts were confiscated and the suspects were issued trespass forms. 
1:23 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported the theft of his jacket from his unlocked dorm room. 
1:34 p.m. Notre Dame Security responded to the report of an accident in the Red West parking lot. An Illinois resident operated a car that had hit a parked vehicle. The driver was arrested for Driving While Intoxicated. 
SUN., SEPT. 27 

1:39 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Notre Dame Fire responded to the report of a student knocked unconscious while playing football at Stepan Field. The victim was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
5:35 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Notre Dame Fire responded to a report of an injured student at Cartier Field. The victim, who had apparently broke her forearm playing flag football, was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center. 
Office and 


Every Thursday Night 9:00pm-midnight basement lounge LaFortune Student Center 
OPEN MICROPHONE BEGINS THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1 
all are welcome -active participation encouraged 

THE NOTRE DAME. 
DONPROGRAM 
'INFORMATION MEETING: Tuesday, September 29, 1992 101 DeBartolo 
6:v'-!!.:::::w.•.o 


----~~---------~-~~~------~---~-----~-­
1 uesday, ~eptember 2!::1, 1!::1!::12 The Observer 
Interior Dept. could open national forests to mining 
Man denies killing opponent's wife 
was treated at a hospital. operating," and has hired a MAITLAND, Fla. (AP) -A 
No arrests were made and lawyer.legislative candidate Monday authorities were awaiting crime Kaplan, 28, didn't immediately denied any involvement in the lab results. respond to messages left on his 
shooting of his opponent's wife, "It appears that we're telephone answering machine. although police said they found building a very strong case The statement issued by at­a gun hidden in his apartment against Kaplan. We hope that torney James Russ said Kaplan 
and a bullet-riddled blanket in the crime lab tests will solidify "expresses his sincere concern his car. our case against him," Seminole and sympathy for the family of Police said Eric Kaplan has so County Sheriff's spokesman Robert Starks. The reportedfar declined to cooperate in George Proechel said Monday. attack upon them in their home 
their investigation into Sunday's Proechel said an eyewitness -particularly if politically re­shooting of attorney Judith followed Kaplan's vehicle to lated -is indeed a tragedy for Starks, wife of Republican state Kaplan's apartment complex in them and for the entire central Rep. Robert Starks. Casselberry, where police re­Florida community." 
Kaplan's attorney issued a covered a five-shot .38-caliber On Monday, Starks spoke with 
statement saying Kaplan denied revolver and a handwritten reporters while propped up in "any involvement and note with Starks' address on it. bed with pillows and a bandageknowledge concerning this In Kaplan's car, deputies on her left leg. 
matter." Kaplan is the Demo­found a blanket riddled with cratic candidate for the subur­five bullet holes, apparently "I really believe that God ban Orlando seat. used to muffle the gun, authori­protected me. It gives me even Mrs. Starks was shot through ties said. greater confidence in his pro­the calf early Sunday as she sat tection," she said. "For that up in bed when five shots were Detectives attempted to reason, I'm not fearful for fired from the back yard into question Kaplan late Sunday, whatever might happen in the the couple's home. Starks, 47, Proechel said, "but he isn't co-future, whatever Bob decides." 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Interior Department is close to approving rules that could open national forests and, in some cases possibly national parks, to strip mining unless the gov­ernment buys the mineral rights. 
But Interior spokesman Steven Goldstein insisted Mon­day that there are no plans to allow strip mining in national parks because in each of those cases the government would buy up mineral rights or ar­range for a land exchange. 
Goldstein said the policy change involves "fundamentally a constitutional issue" over the tight of those holding mineral rights to be compensated. 
"The rule change makes it very clear there will be no min­ing in the parks," added Gold­to parks has caused ripples of concern among conservation­ists. 

"This could be the most disas­trous action taken by any ad­ministration in the 76-year his­tory of the National Park Ser­vice," Paul Pritchard, president of the National Parks and Con­servation Association, a private advocacy group on park issues, said in a statement. 
An association spokeswoman, Kathy Westra, said the issue of compensation should not be dealt with administratively, but left to the courts, and that the proposed Interior policy change could strain the department's fund for handling compensatory claims. 
Strip mining has been prohib­ited on federal protected lands for 15 years, ever since Congress enacted broad­


Student Government's Mock Presidential Debate 

J 
I 
J

vs 

Moderator Questioners 
WND U Television's Mike Collins 
Professor Patricia O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs 
Professor Tim Scully, C.S.C. Government Department 
Professor Walter Nicgorski Program of Liberal Studies 
Governor Bill Clinton President George Bush 
Bill Dailey Junior Philosophy Major 
Pat McCarthy Senior History Major 
Wednesday, September 30 7 pm, Lafortune Ballroom (Theodore's) 
----~~---------------------~~-~--~ ----~~ -------~-----­
Tuesday, September 29,1992 The Observer page 6 
Pakistani jet crashes Drug kingpins caught in Rome 


ROME (AP) -Two alleged
All 167 aboard are missing 
drug kingpins who walked out 
KATMANDU, Nepal (AP) -A Pakistani jet filled with Europeans including mountain climbers and missionaries -plowed into a pine-covered hillside Monday, and rescuers searching the burning wreckage reported no survivors among the 167 aboard. 
Officials said one American was also on board the Pakistani International Airlines Airbus A300 when it crashed on a landing approach, the second air disaster near the capital in as many months. 
The pilot had given no indication anything was wrong before contact was lost with the plane, and the weather was normal, officials said. 
Airline sources in Pakistan said the plane may have been flying too low as it approached this city ringed by Himalayan mountains thousands of feet high. The sources, speaking on condition anonymity, said the plane was flying at 7,500 feet when it should have been at 9,000. 
The airline has had a poor safety and service record in recent years. 
A Thai Airbus crashed into a snowy peak near the capital in July, killing all 113 people aboard. 
The Pakistani jet, on a flight from Karachi, Pakistan, crashed 14 miles south of Katmandu's airport, said Nagendra Prasad Ghimire, deputy chief of Katmandu airport. 
Rescue crews that reached the site by helicopter said the plane was on fire. An airman lowered himself on a rope for a closer view, but found no evidence of survivors, Ghimire said. 
Army and police personnel cordoned off all approaches to the crash site. 
The state-owned Nepal Radio announced that the bodies of victims found by rescue teams would be handed over to relatives at Katmandu airport on Tuesday. Monday's accident occurred at the start of Nepal's tourist season, when dozens of mountain climbing teams fly into this picturesque land to climb the world's highest peaks. 
Airline officials said at least 89 of the 155 passengers were Europeans and that the jet had a crew of 12. 
Thirty-five Britons, including 
MONDAY SEPT. 28 
MUESriNTHEIANDOFTIIEBO~IIEm8 7:00 
1924 Rlll5im • oofodish ooticm li'WeslemClltlllf. 
INVAS!ON OF THE BODY SNATCHERS 9:00 
Theclmi: low batietiCi-li tbnllcr fraD 1956. 
'IUESDAYSEPT. 29 
REAR WINDOW 7:00 
limmy Slmrt &. Gm Kelly s11r in this lfu:ltockmystery. 
OTIZEN KANE 9:00 
O!soo Welks'lmknari film li' 1941. 
FRIDAY !SATIJRDAY ocr. 2&3 
ffiGHHEELS 
7:15&9:45 
a missionary family with three children, were among the passengers, the Pakistani airline reported in London. Most of the other Britons were headed for climbing vacations in the Himalayas, the airline said. 
The missionaries were identified by the college where they trained as Andrew Wilkins, 38, and his pregnant wife, Helen, 36. They were traveling with their children, Hannah, 10, Naomi, 8, and Simeon, 6, All Nations Christian College in Ware, England re­ported. 
Airline officials in Karachi said the passengers also included 12 Dutch citizens, 29 Spaniards, 10 Italians, two Swiss, one German, 10 Nepalese, two Bangladeshis, and 12 Pakistanis. Aside from the missionary family, none of the names of those aboard were made public. 
of an ice cream parlor in the heart of Rome were the first rounded up in a vast dragnet that authorities Monday said smashed a worldwide drug and money-laundering operation. 
"Operation Green Ice" caught some 200 people over the weekend in the United States, Italy, Britain and Costa Rica, Italian authorities told a news conference. Tens of millions of dollars in cocaine, cash, jewels, securities and property were seized. 
Achille Serra, a top police of­ficial, said the ring sent cocaine from Colombia through the United States and Spain for distribution in Italy and other European countries. 
George Terwilliger, a deputy 
U.S. attorney general, called the case "truly a crippling blow to the Colombian cartel." 
While officials in Rome said 201 people were nabbed, U.S. officials held a news conference in Arlington, Va., and put the number of arrests at 153. The discrepancy could not immedi­ately be reconciled. 
Authorities in Rome reported 34 arrests in Italy but gave no breakdown of the others. 
Robert Bonner, head of the 
U.S. Drug Enforcement Admin­istration, said seven people ar­rested account for "most of the key financial operations" for the Cali cocaine cartel in Colombia. 
Authorities said the operation also struck a deep blow to or­ganized crime groups in Sicily, Naples and Calabria, which have a stranglehold on south­ern Italy. 
"Never has there been a strike of such importance against the Mafia, Camorra and 'ndrangheta," national police Chief Vincenzo Parisi said, re­ferring to the mobs in those ar­eas. 
MACRI'S PIZZA 
& ITALIAN RESTAURANT Delicious , Homemade Pizza & Pasta Buy Any 18" Pizza and Get 12"~ One Item Pizza FREE 
(Valid only with Srudent J.D. thru. 10/16) 
ffi Good for Dine In, Carry Out, Deli~ery FREE Delivery to Campus OPEN 11 a.m. , 10 p.m. 
, 

271 .. 2055 
--.··~ __ ...._·----.-....----... -.... -------·· .. -~.-~ -..... ..:, ___ -, .. -......"· . 


Tuesday, September 29,1992 The Observer page 7 
ELECTION '92 

Perot still refuses to announce if he will campaign 
DALLAS (AP) -Ross Perot for the support of his volunteers Perot has complained that coyly refused Monday to say if and to convince Perot to stay on neither Bush nor Clinton had a he would rejoin the presidential the sidelines, where he has credible deficit-reduction plan race but most of his top sup­been since quitting the race in and has said he would enter the porters said overtures from July. race if his supporters so de­President Bush and Bill Clinton "There is no messianic drive sired, enabling him to push his had not quelled their desire for here to have a candidate or to own deficit-reduction plan. Perot to make a late entry. have me as a candidate," Perot 
told reporters. "If the volun­The Texas billionaire said he 
On a remarkable day even for teers ... feel that it's appropriate hoped to make his decision this tumultuous political year, that I run, certainly I am going Thursday based on word from Bush and Clinton courted Perot to honor their request. Then, I his supporters, although he said and his backers by sending will give it everything I have it could slip to Friday. In an high-level delegations to lobby night and day." evening appearance on CNN's 
Perot may aid Republicans by flirting with campaign bid 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Ross the president's continued poor Perot's flirtation with a re­standing in the polls. newed presidential bid could A formal Perot candidacy provide the distraction -and "would reshuffle the deck and the break in Democrat Bill Clin­cause everyone to take a new ton's momentum -that Re­look," said Bush political ad­publicans have been seeking. viser Charles Black. 
That's the best-case analysis Furthermore, Black and other from the Bush camp on the lat­GOP operatives argue that since 

Alumni--Senior Club 
presents 
PALACE LAUNDRY 
CHILD CARE AWARENESS WEEK 
SEPTEMBER 28 -OCTOBER 2, 1992 
CAMPUS FORUM ON CHILD CARE 
Wednesday. September 30 7:00pm Foster Room (3rd Floor. LaFortune Student Center) Issues: What are child care needs on campus? What makes quality child care? How can we bring quality. affordable care to ND? 
The second annual 
BRING YOUR CHILD TO LUNCH DAY Friday, October 2 12 noon Lunch at Oak Room (South Dining Hall) at 12:45 or so (weather permitting) Play on lawns in front of the Dome (Administration building) Balloons & sidewalk chalk available 
All students, staff and faculty members are invited to join us Let's give kids a chance at Notre Dame! 
Sponsored by the Graduate Student Union and the Give Kids a Chance coalition 
[/[ 
For more information contact: 


Mayo Medical Center 
Wednesday Night 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057
9--2 
Rochester, Minnesota 55903 1-800-247-8590
Come check 'em out 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmdtive action and equal opportunity educator and employer. A smoke-free institution. 
must be 21 
dainlYJ(ary 's Goffe!Je 
7Jeparlmenl ofGommunicalron, 7Jance and'Jhealre announces 
7/udtlions 
for 
Jaih:ny @;/£... 
b_y Jlane YJ(arfin 
r:Seplember 215 & 29 7~ lOp.m. 7?m 016 :J(e(pna Jfa/1 
Xo e.>perience orpreparafion necessary. Jemale roles ofall!ypes and ayes auadaiJie. Ocripls auadaiJie in CO'JJfOffice, (110 Jfforeau, ()']J(C) on Jffonday, Oeplember21. 
Jar more informalion, please calli/ie CO'JJfOffice 
2<54-4640 
"Larry King Live" he announced a new toll-free telephone number where those not already working for him could register their support. 
Near the close of the show, Perot's wife and three of his five children joined him in the studio, all saying they would support him if he decided to run. 
l
MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 SAT 8:00-3:00 2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 
272-6722 
Serving tfle 'J.{ptre 'Dame communityfor over30 years 
est developments in Dallas. 
The worst case, from the GOP view, is that Perot will not run but will keep praising Clinton"s economic policies as closest to his own. 
Some Perot insiders were promoting the latter scenario on Monday, a day when the Texas billionaire and support­ers from all 50 states heard presentations from the camps of both major-party candidates. 
Democrats are advancing the notion that a Perot candidacy at this time would make it harder for Bush to carry two of his must-win states: Texas and Florida, which together have 57 of the 270 electoral votes needed for victory. Thus, they argue, a new Perot candidacy would help Clinton the most. 
But no one seems able to say for certain how Perot's re-entry might play in tossup states and those where much of Clinton's support reflects an anti-Bush protest vote. 
Bush -way down in the polls with just five weeks to go to Election Day needs something dramatic to help break him out of a rut. 
And the Dallas billionaire's latest maneuverings are at least divertin some attention from more Perot supporters went to Clinton than to the president when Perot "withdrew" last July 16, Clinton now has more to lose than Bush if Perot returns. 

In states such as California, Michigan, Colorado and New Mexico, a Perot candidacy could absorb some of the anti-Bush vote that Clinton now enjoys. 
"There are only two things that can turn it around for Bush: Perot's re-entry or the debates. The foundation has settled and voters have basi­cally made their choices. For Bush to win, he's got to shake that up," said GOP pollster Frank Luntz, who has done polling for Perot. 
If Perot becomes an active candidate -no means a cer­tainty -it also could change the dynamics of presidential debates. 
With the Bush campaign so far resisting a debate format favored by Clinton, there is the possibility of a debate between Perot and Clinton. That could resemble the 1980 debate be­tween Republican Ronald Rea­gan and independent John An­derson. President Carter sat 

FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer lll is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. 
--------~ 
----------------~ -­
Viewpoint 
Page 8 Tuesday September, 29, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Editorial 
Goodwill is about America smells of Stoogery 
SMC art controversy 
·Dear Editor: clients and employees from Goodwill about $60,000 annu­I am writing to thank Holando revenues generated through ally in hauling fees. This money de Aguiar, and to express ap­sales of donated clothing, could be better used to help 
They're outside and damaged. They're inside, under 
preciation for his advocacy of books, toys, shoes, lamps, people. lock and key. Now they're outside again, with their own 
Goodwill, in the Inside Column kitchen wares, usable house­Every usable item given to faculty security guards. 
of Sept. 16, 1992. hold appliances, drapes, furni­Goodwill is turned into money The weird will get weirder tomorrow at Saint Mary's 
ture, and so much more, in our to help our neighbors who are when the Great Ifulbous Sculpture Controversy takes a 
I am grateful for his remarks, seven area Hetail Stores. temporarily in need of help. final turn and the artwork heads back to the great out­
and for the business of every We also do contract work with Goodwill is the Ultimate He­doors. Evidently the College now feels the community 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and local business and industry, and cycler. Because of Goodwill, should be allowed to view the sculptures-but only for 
Holy Cross College student. receive philanthropy for Capital our clients are able to earn a selected hours during the final two days of the exhibit. 
You may be interested to Projects and annual funds. paycheck with dignity and pay The three-week old story has Stooge-like qualities and 
know what happens to the taxes with pride. is indicative of a image complex within Saint Mary's 
money spent at Goodwill Stores. I urge all members of the That is what Goodwill is all administration. Four untitled pieces by Chicago sculp­
Our mission is rehabilitation Notre Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy about. To me, that is what tor Marcia Kaplan were put on display on the Le Mans 
of disabled and disadvantaged Cross community to shop at America is all about. lawn at the beginning of the academic year, to the dis­
men and women. In 1991, Goodwill, and to donate items may of some wbo found them to resemble male sex or­
Goodwill evaluated, trained, no longer wanted to Goodwill. J. Larry Neff gans or human feces, or others who found them just 
and found competitive jobs for Please do not leave junk by President ugly. Many simply viewed the display as the sculptor in­
101 persons in Michiana. our Collection Center. While it Class of 1984 tended: Creative, expressive art. 
Goodwill is able to pay our may be convenient, it costs Sept. 22, 1992 
Hard times-or maybe a hard body-fell on the sculp­tures just one day after their debut. Saint Mary's Secu­rity has few clues about who vandalized the display or why, although some have speculated that a visitor 
Notre Dame must stand for family values 
might have caused the damage by sitting on it. In a highly uncharacteristic move Saint Mary's admin­
Dear Editor: ployees at NO, and see it as a work/stndy assignments. 
istration came to the rescue, but only after an uncon­
While the demographic reali­positive first step for Notre Another is to call on the en­
vincing denial of prior knowledge of the design of the 
ties have yet to hit most Notre Dame. tire campus community to sculptures. To this day the community can only assume 
Dame students, they are just However, the second step will monetarily support an endow­
the sculptures rendered the administration speechless 
around the corner -over 80 % be more difficult -finding a way ment for child care scholarships 
or mortified, since no one will go on record stating ex­
of American workers with de­to provide care that nurtures for needy families, a sort of
actly what the display is intended to represent. 
pendent children are single rather than replaces parents, at "United Way" appeal for the 
The decision to move the sculptures looked foolish 
parents or part of dual-earner a price that low-income Notre Dame family. 
and reactionary, especially considering that only one 
families. 
person had complained to the Art Department about 
Many students are already staff and students can afford. Are we united enough, and 
the display. In the valiant leap to save the community 
thinking about how they are There are many staff and charitable enough, to really
from the great big balls of polyurethane, the adminis­
going to combine work and graduate students with family mean it when we say that Notre 
tration tripped over their own feet. 
family needs. incomes below $15,000 a year. Dame stands for family values? 
Students and faculty had a vested interest in the 
The American Catholic Bish­The week of Sept. 28-0ct. 2 There will be an open forum 
placement of the sculptures and should have been in­
ops recognized the need for has been designated "Child on child care issues Wednesday
volved in the decision. The administration's hasty and 
economic institutions Care Awareness Week" to night in the Foster Boom of
indecisive moves showed ignorance about the role of 
(particularly Catholic ones) to promote discussion and atten­LaFortune Student Center. 
art in the community, and Ignorance of the community 
be more supportive of families tion to the needs of parents on I encourage all students to
itself. 
with child care problems in campus. come and make their voices
We can only hope that the next time (God forbid) the 
their pastoral letter on the Several ideas have been sug­heard.
administration won't look so much like Larry, Curly 
economy. gested to make quality child
and Moe. 
care also affordable on campus. Jennifer Glass I am very encouraged by the One is to use more under­Assoc. Professor of 
recent child care assessment sent out to all em-
DOONESBURY 
H&Y,RAY.I
IA/OUWYOU HeY, C'MON, 8.0., 
B!<.!NGM/3
8.0.? 5T8P OUTOr G/MMt A 8!<&AK 
71-I&STUN
IT'5Mt, 7H&mf!Ct8, Ht'I?E-' I'M GOING 
Pt£.458,51!<.~ GUN.'
SIPI 70to5&MYt-/Ct'l/58.' 
I \ 
needs  graduate students as classroom  Sociology  
aides for course credit or as  Sept. 25, 1992  
GARRY TRUDEAU  QUOTE OF THE DAY  

THIS lH/515 CAUFORNIA,S/R. 
'All generalizations are
ttWU?N'T /fA8t51/P£ PR07EC7l3l? B&-HAP-8YSTJIJl3 CHARlt!<.. 
dangerous, even this one.' 
PtNING 
IF I /A/£1?& 
A BAEJ!3, RI6HF 
Alexander Dumas 
Quit cursing the dark, light a candle: 
QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND, IN 46556 
------~~--~~ --------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Accent 

date/page numberTuesday, page 9 

• 

ecome 
1e 

"Comedy caravan" brings Stand-Up Humor to ND!SMC in its act at Shenanigans 

By STEVE TANKOVICH week at Club Shennanigan's. The Comedy Caravan
Accent Writer 
organization consists of many different comedians who Earlier this month Carrot Top 
perform in groups of three performed at Washington Hall. throughout the country. Last year, Howie Mandel was able to bring his show to Various members of the Stepan Center. But when group have appeared on 
looking for comedy on a televised comedy specials such weeknight, what is a student to as the MTV Half-Hour Comedy do? Hour and HBO comedy 
specials. 
Comedy Caravan, a comedy troop out of Bloomington, The club also has other Indiana, will be performing at events on the schedule. These Club Shennanigans this and 
include several musical groups every Wednesday evening to 
from around Michiana and meet the comedy needs of 
encompass a variety of sounds. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and 
the South Bend community. The band Harlot, a rock band from Saginaw, Michigan, will The show begins at 9:30 and perform this Thursday. On lasts for about two hours. 
Friday, the mood will change to There is a $3 cover charge to 
alternative music, when Blah get in. Club Shennanigan's (not 
Blah Blah, a group from to be confused with the Indianapolis will perform. popular Notre Dame and Saint 
Saturday will feature the music Mary's musical group) has an 
of Elwood Splinter's Blues open bar, so no one under 21 is 
band. admitted. 
Club Shennanigan's is located Comedy Caravan is made up 
on Emmons Road in the of several groups who tour 
Georgetown Shopping Center, together for 4-6 weeks. The 
which is within one mile of group has a large following on 
campus. An updated recording other campuses, particularly 
of the latest events happening Indiana University in 
at the club is available 24 hrs a Bloomington. 
day by calling the Club Shennanigan's hotline at 277­A different group of three 
1727. comedians will perform every 
Humor, style, subject of "Husbands and Wtves" parallel Allen's real life 
BY PETER BEVACQUA 
Husbands and Wives
Film Critic 
Produced by Robert Greenhut Written and directed by
"Husbands and Wives," the 22nd film written and directed by Woody Allen, is 
Woody Allen 
a tale of two married couples 
* * * * 
confronted with change and forced to review and re-evaluate questions about 
(out of five) marriage, friendship, fidelity, romance, trust and love. you will realize that the 
Allen's latest film blurs the perspective of the photography distinction between fiction and enables you to become involved in autobiography. The relationship every scene. Allen, therefore, asks between Gabe Roth (Woody Allen) and the audience to judge the immoral his wife, Judy (Mia Farrow), is very actions of the characters...and let similar (to say the least) to the he/she who is without sin cast the estranged couples' real life perversities first stone. (of which I am sure the reader is quite If this is your first Woody Allen familiar.) The film captures a sense of film (and if it is ... where have you stark reality through the utilization of been your whole life?) I am hesitant camera techniques reminiscent of in recommending it-to truly enjoy French New Wave film: jump-cutting "Husbands and Wives" one must . . .. .. 
and a hand-held camera. have an understanding of Allen·sWoody Allen directs Mia Farrow, c., and Judy Dav1s m a scene from HUSBANDS AND WIVES. However, whereas the goal of these 
pessimistic and cynical "humor." As resistance to change, disruption and views with a gentle gloss of wit. Allen's techniques in the pre cam-corder world 
he has in many of his previous films, regeneration, and the many facets and constant search for love and friendshipof the French New Wave was to attach Allen blends his styles of comedy and complexities of the human heart. in a world void of morality is a subject an unmistakable filmic quality to a drama in this film. the film, if not the man, successfully
work, Allen's use of these subtleties It explores with irony and humor One cannot deny that Allen's undertakes. Woody Allen's astute forces the viewer into the narrative. 
themes Allen has been concerned with films serve as a cathartic mirror for the knowledge of people, complimented byIf you are able to overcome a feeling over the years-contemporary modern societal psyche-a mirror a wealth of great acting performances, of nausea due to the wobbling camera, relationships, commitment, change and which softens the sting of the director's results in a wonderful film. 

----------------------------------------------------------------·------­


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES 
ATIENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or 800-439-5313. 
TYPING 287-4082 
•••• GRAPHIC LITERATURE •••• 
Entertainment for the 90's!!!! 
Find out what you're missing at: 
COLLECTOR'S DEN (Comics, 
Toys & Games) 4609 Grape Rd. 
JMS Plaza, Behind Hardee's 
M-F 11 to 7, Sat 10 to 6 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BECOME AN EXCHANGE STUDENT 
AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge 
Manage your own $500,000 portfolio and enjoy the excitement of real Wall Street action. 
ENTER NOW! ENTER NOW! Availability is limited, so hurry. CALL 1-800-545-1975 ext. 12 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday Pandora's Books 808 Howard 3 blks. from campus 233-2342 
TRAVEL FREE! SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS TO JAMAICA, CANCUN AND FLORIDA! BEST COMMISSIONS I FASTEST TO FREE TRAVEL! CALL SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-7710 
Typing 237-1949 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 
ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND Watch 9/21 by lakes x4991 
LOST CALCULATOR Casio fx7000 (graphic display and other stuff). Badly needed. $$$ and no questions asked. Please call Jose @ x2070 
Lost!! My parents gave me a beautiful gold watch for Christmas and I LOST IT!!! Most likely on North or Mod Quad, maybe in Math & Camp. building. If found, call Amy at x4530 or x4525. 
Found Dorm Room KEY on soccer ball key chain call 3312 claim. 
LOST 35mm Pentax camera with black carrying case film is very important if found call x3385 
Lost: Large, red and white umbrella with red maple leaves on it (like a Canadian flag). If found, please call Chris at X2033. 
Found: Pair of round eyeglasses in a gray case. Found in front of the Snite. Call Jim x3411 
Lost silver snake earring--4084 
HELP!!! I am blind and need you to restore my vision!!! LOST: One pair of tortoise shelled maroon glasses and case. Please call Mick at X1856 or heal my affliction in 438 Stanford. 
WANTED 
EASY, FUN PHONE WORK. EVENINGS. HIGH PAY. 237-1988. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext. A5584. 
$$$ NEED MONEY? $$$ 
Now hiring 1 0 drivers and 5 inside­help. Make $8-12/hour delivering for DOMINO'S PIZZA. Pt. time and Full time available. Employee discounts on pizzas. Business is 
booming. Call Brian at 271-0300 to set up an interview. 
ND Alum couple visiting campus seeks capable, caring person(s) from ND/SMC community to babysit our 2 mo. old twins at Morris Inn Oct. 1 &/or 2 for 2-3 hours. Flexible to accomodate your class/study schedule. Call Colleen collect 708­615-1555. 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!. ..Begin NOW!...FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
Attention! Earn $25001 Students, Greeks, Clubs Earn Free Spring Break Trip After Selling Only 8 Trips At Your School! Spring Break 1-800­678-6386. 
Spring Break '93 
Panama City Beach, Florida Sales Representative needed to work with #1 Spring Break Team TRAVEL ASSOCIATES AND TOUR EXCEL. Sell the BEST properties on the beach 
SUMMIT CONDOMINIUMS 
MIRACLE BEACH RESORT 
HOLIDAY INN 
PIER 99 
Earn top commission and free trips 
For more information call: Julie 
1-800-558-3002 
WANTED: Child care worker for in-home care of 2 five year-olds, Fridays, 9AM-2. 287-5117. 
I need a ride to R.I./Baston for fall break. Will share cost/driving. AmyX4012 
DEPERATELY NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S. CALL CLARKE X1748. 
I BUY BYUs X2319 
I FOR RENT 
Near N.D. cozy furnished apts. studio-$220 I bedroorn-$255 2bedroom-$280 Deposit, 1-800-582-9320 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
2 room efficiency , utilities paid $7 a day, 288-0955 
Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
CHEAP FLIGHT NY (LGA) to SB OCT 23 Call Brian 273-0967 
'86 Cavalier RS, 2 door, black Excellent transportation $1,800 or best offer Please call 284-5376 before 5pm 
BICYCLE FOR SALE Black Trek 800 18" Good Condition-2 yrs. old. $200. Call 232-2944 & ask tor Geoff. 
'82 VW FOR SALE CALL KEVIN 277 9311 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
Lrg 2& 1 br apt avail in Victorian home. Hrdwd tis, yard, bus line, sunny. Prtly furnished. Great deal. Call287-8264 eves. 
4 SALE -4 STANFORD GA'S ALL TOGETHER X3311 MOE 
I TICKETS 
NEED PSU AND sTANFORD fix 
CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
I NEED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
STUDENT TICKETS FOR SALE 

CALL 283-1747 
I'VE GOT TWO PURDUE GAs YOU'VE GOT TWO PENN STATE GAs 
WANNA TRADE? Call Bret (me) at 1248. I love you. 
NEED 3 STAN GA'8-WILL PAY BIG$$$ CALL PHIL-283-3542$$$ 
Need Stan. GA's Bob 3398 
I NEED 3 PENN ST GA'S WILL PAY, MIKE x2209 
Need 2 GA's for STANFORD have 2 BYU GA's to trade or will pay $$ Amy X2609 
Have Purdue & BC Stud. Tix Will sell or trade for Penn St. & Stanford Tix plus $ Eric x1200 
$ RICH family needs 6 GAs $ $ for Stanford game $ $Call Pat@ t900 $ 
Please help!!! I'm in DESPERATE need of Penn State GA's ... 
Call Ann 284-5241 
TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC GA'S (715-359-0222) 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College GAs or student tix. Call Jill @ x4758 or x4721. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
() 
NEED BYU NEED BYU 
My parents, grandparents and aunt & uncle are coming so I need tickets for all of them. I am not picky about the GAs I need. 
Please help out my family so that they can see a game before I graduate this year. 
Joe Gallatin x1161 
Thank You Thank You 
() 
Need GA tix for BYU will buy or trade for my GA PENN ST tix. Butch (209) 449-1800/439-6170. 
WILL TRADE 2 PENN STATE TIX FOR 2 BYU TIX. (904)274-3281 ­LEAVE MESSAGE. 
I have 2 BYU GA's!!! 
I am looking to trade these for 
2 Stan. GA's or 2 Penn St. GA's 
Joe x1395 
Need Penn St. Tix Tony x 1786 
I need Stan. GA's Bob 3398 
I NEED 1 STANFORD TICKET -GA OR STU. CALL GEORGE 4121. 
I have a Stanford GA and need a Penn State GA-want to trade? Call Jahnelle at 283-2998 
NEED STANFORD GA'S. CALL SANDY 272-6194. THANK YOU. 
Want to trade 2 BYU GA's for 2 BC GA's Call Susan at x1675 
4 STANFORD GAs FOR SALE CALL 271 1168 
I NEED 2 STANFORD GA'S AND ONE STUDENT TIC PLEASE HELP!! GREG X1103 
I NEED A STANFORD TICKET, student or GA. Please call Diane, 
x4059. 
NEED 2 Stanford Tix STD or GA. Good $$$ Call Bart 271-0759 
Need 2 G.A.s for Stanford! call Julie x4189 
NEED 2 BYU GA's CALL MATI X1565 
2 Stanford GA's tor sale. Call Joe at 1758. Best offer by Thursday gets the tix. Leave a message if I'm not there. 
FOR SALE 2 Pitt GA's Best offer by 10/5 call Ted 513-492-5190. 
Stanford St. Tk.: $30 Tom xt444 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
HELP!II Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks. 
HELP!!! NEED 2-4 PENN ST. GA'S OR STUD. TIX. CALL ALAN x1597 
Wanted: Stanford vs Notre Dame 1-415-991-3416 call collect 
NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. Morrissey Hall & Law School Alumnist. Please help. Call David at 816-931-1267. 
Need 1 Stant. G.A. pay top$$ call Scott x4243 
STANFORD TICKETS I NEED STANFORD TICKETS!!! 
CALL COLLEEN AT 283-4528. 
!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!! STANFORD.STANFORD• HELP ME! 
I NEED STANFORD GA'S! IF YOU HAVE ANY CALL SABOL AT 283-2950 •sTANFORD.STANFORD• !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!1!1!!!!!!!!1 !!! 
Need 1 BOSTON or 1 PENN STATE St. Tix. Call JIM X1565 
I need 3 G.As and 1 student ticket for the Stanford game. If you can help, please call Suzy at x3722. 
Need 1 0 plus BYU GA's Call #1852 
I NEED 1 STANFORD GA CALL ART x1153 
Need 2 Penn State GA's Please Call Lisa at 289-3790 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I DESPERATELY NEED GA & STUD STANFORD TIX!I ERIN #2638 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
$NEED 2 STANFORD$ $GAs x3593$ 
NEED Stanford Tix. Call Matt x1741 
I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 
WILLING TO TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BOSTON COLLEGE GA'S. CALL KATY AT 273-2989! 
I need 2-3 GA's for the Stanford game. Will pay lots of cash. Angel x2545 
NEED REASONABLY PRICED 
G.A.S: 2 STANFORD AND 2 BC. CALL JUDY 239-6515. SORRY, I'M POOR. 
Have 2 BYU tix, need 2 BC tix. Will swap. Call (201) 487-9000. 
Need 4 PITI tix!!! Call Pete ( 1-800-322-0228) 
I've got GAs to all games-cheap! Bert@ 1248. 
I need 2 STANFORD GAs If you can help, call Chris at X2033 
i need 2 penn state GA's call lisa X 4845 leave a message 
Yo! I NeeD 10 PeNN St GAs Badly Please Call: PAT x2071 
Selling student tickets & booklets. I have BC GA's too. Luis 273-1528. 
Stanford GAs For Sale or Trade 289-3273 
I NEED 2STAN & BC GA'S CALL CHRIS #3830 
WILL PAY BIG BUCKS FOR 
STANFORD GA TIX. CALL JOE AT @·& 287-4561. 
2 Married Stud Ticket books UNSINGED -273 9689 
NEED STAN TIX 3374 
HELP HELP HELP HELP 
Need two STANFORD GAs My sisters are coming out and I do not have tickets for them. 
Please help them out. 
THANK YOU 

Tim 239-8317 
HELP HELP HELP HELP 
I NEED 1 STANFORD MARRIED or GA MIKE 289-3887 
WILL TRADE 2 STANFORD GA'S 
+ CASH FOR 2 PSU GA'S CALL MIKE x1768 
Need one stud. ticket for Stanford. Pis. call Stacey at #2892. 
I need 2 Stanford GA'S and 1 stud. tik. Call Mike at x1115. 
Will trade one student ticket to BYU, BC, and Penn St. plus cash for 2 BYU GAs. Call Pat at271-2360. 
NEED 4 STANFORD GA'S­KEVIN 271-8641 
STANFORD stud. tkts. FOR SALE!!! best offer. call #1756 
Need 6 tickets for Stanford game 255-9648 HeyNiff 
JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! 
TODAY! $2 7" Subs 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 
MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
SMC & ND 1993 SUMMER PROGRAMS-London and Rome. Travel in Ire., Scot., Eng., France, Ger., Switz., & Italy. Courses in Bus., Ed., His!., Italian, Mus., Nursing, and Soc. Meeting Oct. 5, 
6:30 PM Carroll Hall (SMC). Slides, students from 1992, teachers, pizza, etc. Info Call Prof. Black 284­4460 or 272-3726. 
ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 
Attractive and physically well­endowed Notre Dame student with good personality needs a date for Oct. 10 SYR. 
I will provide transportation, beverages, and hours of fun whoever answers this ad. 
This is not a joke. I really need a date. 
You can call me AI. .. at 283-2703. 
SMC SENIORS 

This could be your last chance ... 
THE CRUSH anonymous invitations are sent to as many men as you would like. 
Beer and food provided for the casual gathering! 
Oct. 2, 1992 5-!0pm King's Hall/ Castle Point Tickets on sale at Haggar through Wed. Sept. 30th (11-tpm). 
MUST BE 21! 
the MAN IN THE MOON says Hlto the GIRL IN THE WORLD (oh ... and he's SMILING!) 
5 VERY LARGE MEN will hurt me if I don't have GAs for them when they come for the BC game. Please help. Jenn x4059. 
•••••• Campus Musicians •••••••• There will be an informational meeting for all those interested in performing on a campus CD on Thursday, October 1st at 9:00pm in the SUB office in Lafortune. Questions?-Call Ryan at x1249 or 239-7757 
To the lover of "The One"-How can you blow her off like that? Maybe we'll double with the bimbettes. ~owz about Saturday? 
TO TATIOO OF DILLON HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY!! 
Do you have friends at DUKE or CHAPEL HILL? Do you have family in the RALIEGH/DURHAM area? I need riders to share driving and expenses. Leave OCT29, return NOV!. CALL LAURA x4801 
Double Ditka Tuesday: 
3-foot Ditka vs. Flanner... DITKA full-sized Ditka vs. Grace ... TIE. 
Top 10 reasons to have bought a ticket to the junior class formal . 
10) The dance was cancelled. 
9) Dining hall place settings look much better by candlelight. 
8) Yet another occassion to visit Topher's birthplace. 
7) To see Woody dancing with himself. 
6) Girls on Phil ... (and Bill). 
5) You don't have to go to a museum to see a prehistoric elephant. (a WHAT? Oh, mastadon.) 
4) Electric slide lessons for everyone, free of charge. 
3) "They're just the nicest group of guys you ever want to meet." 
2) Why not hear Frankie Valli, one more time??? 
1) 'Cause Lodge parties ALWAYS rule. 
TUTORS NEEDED: TOWN AND COUNTRY COMMUNITY CENTER NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY PROGRAM, GRADE 1-6,4:00-5:30 MON. AND WED. OR TUES. AND THURS., STARTING OCT. 5, PROGRAM DIRECTOR (teacher) CONNIE EMMONS, 258-9973 OR 288-3366 
MARGE 
SPRING BREAK '93 -SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. CALL 1-800-648-4849. 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
Fay. 
Closets are for clothes: come out, come out, where-ever you are! 
KATIE YOU'RE SUCH A DORK!!!! LOVE YA! ANNE 

HOW GOOD IS YOUR COLLEGE HEALTH SERVICE? A national magazine is investigating the quality of college health clinics, and would like to hear female students' stories. All names will be kept confidential. Please send a short account of your experience along with your phone number to: Box 125, 1275 First Ave. New York, New York 1 0021. 
SENIORS: DON'T MISS OUT!! Deadline for Senior Rap-Up is this Friday. Sign up now at the CSC. 
DROP DEAD, NIFF! 
Hey Leah, I'm tall enough, damn it. 
Yet another opiate for the masses 
PALACE LAUNDRY 
Gerber-
You may need to 
clear your throat 
after a long night 
Here's your sign: Stepen Dunn is God. Love him ... well, you know the rest. -Me 
LISTEN UP LISTEN UP LISTEN UP ......... TUESDAY AT MIDNIGHT UNTIL 2:00AM THE BEST COLLEGE RADIO IN SOUTH BEND.!!!! 88.9 FM NOCTURN SWEET TUNES. 
Esta the Stupid Cow-15!!! Love, Pues 
CHRIS CARRIGAN­
THE PHOTO TUNNEL OF LOVE IS A FIGMENT OF JEANNE'S IMAGINATION. HEY, I LIKE YOU ALOT SHAGGY--AND I AIN'T PULLING YOUR STRING. LOVE KIM M. "YOUR GODDESS" 
KANSAS BITES. Christ-i 
DAVE W, HOPE YOU PRACTICED! CAN'T WAIT FOR THE ITALIAN. LOVE, YOUR OTHER PHYSICS WOMAN 



NLLEADERS TRANSACTIONS 
BATTING-Sheffield, San Diego, .330; Robans, AMERICAN CONFERENCE
BASEBALL Cincinnati, .325; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, .325; Kruk, Eaat
American LeagueAMERICAN LEAGUE Philadelphia, .323; Gwynn. San Diego, .317; w L T Pet. PF PA
SEATILE MARINERS-Signed a two-yearEaat Division Bonds, Pittsburgh, .316; Butler, Los Angeles, .313. player development contract with Appleton of the Buffalo 4 0 0 1.000 153 45w L Pet GB LID Streak Home Away RUNS-Bonds, Pittsburgh, t07; DHollins, Miami 3 0 0 1.000 72 50
Midwest League.
Toronto 92 65 .586 
z-7·3 Wont 49-27 43·38 Philadelphia, t 02; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, t 02; Indianapolis 1 2 0 .333
National League 24 61
Milwaukee 89 67 .57t 2tl2 Z·9·t Won6 53·28 36-39 Grissom, Montreal, 99; Sandberg, Chicago, 96; New England 0 3 0 .000 t3 65
HOUSTON ASTROS-Announced they haveBaltimore 85 71 .545 6tl2 4·6 Wont 43·38 42·33 Pendleton, Atlanta, 94; Biggio, Houston, 93. N.Y. Jets 0 4 0 .000 51 96
moved their Class A affiliate from Burlington toCleveland 74 82 .474 17112 5-5 Wont 39-36 35-46 RBI-Daunon, Philadelphia, t07; Pendleton, Central
Quad City in the Midwest League and have agreedDetroit 74 83 .47t t8 Z·5·5 Wont 37·4t 37-42 Atlanta, t03; Bonds, Pittsburgh, tOt; Sheffield, to a two-year player development agreement with Houston 3 1 0 .750 94 59New Vorl< 74 83 .47t t8 5-5 4t-40Lost2 33·43 San Diego, 99; McGriff, San Diego, 97; Bagwell, Quad City. Pittsburgh 3 t 0 .750 82 57Boston 70 87 .446 22 4-6 Lostt 42-36 28·5t Houston. 9t; LWalker. Montreal, 9t; Murray, New BASKETBALL Cincinnati 2 2 0 .500 75 90Wast Division 
York, 91. Cleveland 1 3 0 .250 54 69w L Pet GB LtD Streak Home Away Weal National Baaketball Aaaociatlon 
HITS-Pendleton, Atlanta, t95; VanSlyke, GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Signed Mattx-Oakland 93 63 .596 z-4-6 Lost3 49-27 45-36 Pittsburgh, t93; Sheffield, San Diego, t93; Grace, Fish, center, to a one-year contract. Denver 3 t 0 .750 50 56
Minnesota 86 70 .55t 7 z-6-4 Lostt 46-32 40·38 Chicago, t80; Grissom, Montreal, t79; Sandberg, HOUSTON ROCKETS-Signed David Wood, Kansas City 2 t 0 .667 70 40Chicago 95 7t .545 8 6-4 Won2 50-32 35-39 Chicago, 177; Lankford, St. Louis, t7t. forward. Seattle t 3 0 .250 37 72Texas 74 92 .474 t9 Z·4·6 Wont 36·45 38·37 DOUBLES-VanSiyke, Pittsburgh, 44; WCiark, UTAH JAZZ-Signed Tim Legler, guard, and LA Raiders 0 3 0 .000 50 69Kansas City 69 96 .445 23 tl2 z-6-4 Lost2 43-35 26·5t San Francisco, 40; Grissom, Montreal, 39; Mike Higgins, forward. San Diego 0 4 0 .000 29 95California 69 87 .439 24 tl2 2-8 Lostt 37-37 3t-50 Lankford, St. Louis, 38; Duncan, Philadelphia, 38; NATIONAL CONFERENCE
FOOTBALLSeattle 60 96 .385 33 4-6 Lostt 34-4t 26-55 Pendleton, Atlanta, 37; Grace, Chicago, 36; JBell, Eaat
National Football LeaguePittsburgh, 36; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 36. BUFFALO BILLs-Signed Keith Willis, defen­W L T Pet. PF PANATIONAL LEAGUE TRIPLES-DSanders, Atlanta, t4; Finlay, sive end. Waived Gary Baldinger, nose tackle. Dallas 3 0 0 1.000 89 58East Diviaion 
Houston, t2; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, t2; Butler, Los Philadelphia 3 0 0 t.OOO 76w L Pet GB LtD Streak Home Away Angeles, tt; Alicea, St. Louis, 10; Morandini, Washington 2 1 0 .667 47 50 CINCINNATI BENGALS-Piaced Kevin Waller, 27 
linebacker, on injured reserve and Reggiex-Pittsburgh 94 63 .599 z-9·2 Won5 53-29 4t-35 Philadelphia, 8; Offerman, Los Angeles, 8; N.Y.Giants t 2 0 .333 69 79
Remben, wide receiver, on the reserve-non·foot­Montreal 96 71 .548 
8 4-6 Lost\ 43-38 43-33 DeShields, Montreal, 8; Sandberg, Chicago. 8. Phoenix 0 3 0 .000 41 85
ball illness list. Activated Mnchell Price, cornerback, St. Louis 79 78 .503 15 z-5·5 Wont 41-35 39-43 HOME RUNS-McGrifl, San Diego, 34; Central
from the roster-axe~! list. Waived Richard Isaiah,Chicago 75 92 .479 
19 1·9 Lost7 40-36 35-46 Sheffield, San Diego, 33; Bonds, Pittsburgh, 32; Minnesota 3 1 0 .750 t08 78
wide receiver; Lance Olberding, tackle; and OmarNew Vorl< 69 89 .439 25 z-3·7 Lost6 38-38 31-50 Daulton, Philadelphia, 27; DHollins, Philadelphia, Tampa Bay 3 t 0 .750 101 59
Solo, running back, from the practice squad.
Philadelphia 68 89 .433 26 z-9·1 Won3 41-40 27-49 26; Sandberg, Chicago, 26; LWalker, Montreal, 23. Chicago 2 2 0 .500 88 ttO
Signed Mike Barber, wide receiver; Mike Dingle,West Division STOLEN BASES-Grissom, Montreat:· 75; Green Bay 2 2 0 .500 64 80
running back; and Roosevelt Nix, defensive end. to
w L Pet GB l10 Streak Home Away DeShields, Montreal, 46; Raben~. Cincinnati, 44; Detroit t 3 0 .250 88 84
the practice squad. 
Atlanta 93 62 .600 5-5 Won2 46-28 47·34 Lankford, St. Louis, 42; Nixon. Atlanta, 4t; Butler, Weal
DALLAS COWBOYs-Activated Tony Hill, de·Cincinnati 88 68 .564 
5 112 z-9·1 Wont 51-24 37-44 Los Angeles, 4t; OSmnh. St. Louis, 4t. lensive end, from injured reserve. San Francisco 3 t 0 .750 109 72
San Diego 80 75 .516 13 3·7 Lost2 45·36 35·39 PITCHING (t8 Decisions)-Tewksbury, St. LA Ranns 2 2 0 .500 49 76
HOCKEYHouston 76 80 .487 17 112 z-6-4 Won3 42-33 34-47 Louis, t6·5, .762, 2.t9; Glavine, Atlanta, 20·7, .741, National Hockey League New Orleans 2 2 0 .500 61 44San Francisco 69 87 .442 24 112 5-5 Lost I 42·39 27-48 2.87; Morgan, Chicago, 15-8, .652, 2.6t; Cone, NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Assigned Todd Atlanta 1 3 0 .250 75 92Los Angeles 6t 95 .391 32 112 Z·2·9 Lost5 37-44 24-51 New York, t3·7, .650, 2.88; Leibrandt, Atlanta, t3· Sparks, Jell Saterdalen and Jell Jablonski, left Sunday's Gamesx-clinched division title. 
7, .650, 3.62; KHill, Montreal, 16-9, .640, 2.7t; wings, and John Johnson, center, to Richmond of Chicago 4t , Atlanta 3t z-denotas first game was a win. 
Tomlin, Pittsburgh, t4·8, .636, 3.35. the East Coast Hockey League. Buffalo 4t, New England 7 AMERICAN LEAG.U.E NATIONAL LEAGUE STRIKEOUTS-Cone, New Vorl<, 2t4; Smottz. NEWYORKRANGER5-Assigned Mike Gilmore Denver t2, Cleveland 0 Saturday'• Games Atlanta, 2t2; GMaddux. Chicago, t90; and Corey Hirsch, goalies; Doug Searle, Peter Minnesota 42, Cincinnati 7
Sunday'a Game a 
Cleveland 7, Detroit 4 SFernandez, New York, t88; Drabek, Pittsburgh, Houston 27, San Diego 0
Montreal 1, Chicago 0 Fiorentino, John Mokosak, Michael Stewan, Jean­
New Vorl< 2, Toronto 1 1 73; Rijo, Cincinnati, t69; Benes, San Diego, t62. Tampa Bay 27, Detron 23
Marc Richard, Darcy Werenka, Brad Tiley and John MiN¥aukea 2, Oakland 1 Philadelphia 6, St. Louis 5, 2nd game SAVES-LeSmith, St. Louis, 40; Myers, San Vary, delenseman; and Barry Potomski, Don Biggs, Miami t9, Seattle 17 Boston 7. Baltimore 3, 14 innings, 1st game Pntsburgh 4, New Vorl< 2 Diego, 37; Wetteland. Montreal, 36; DJones. Chris Cichocki, Craig Duncanson, Fredrik Jax, Rob Los Angeles Rams 19, New York Jets 10 Houston 4, Los Angeles 2 Kenny, Daniel Lacroix, Jean-Yves Roy and Brian 
St. Louis 8, Philadelphia 1, t st game 
Battimore 2, Boston 0, 2nd game Houston, 34; MtWilliams, Philadelphia, 27; Green Bay t7, Pittsburgh 3 camornia 1, Chicago o Chartton, Cincinnati, 26; Dibble, Cincinnati, 24. San Francisco 16, New Orleans t 0 
Sakic, forwards, to Binghamton of the American Minnesota 9, Kansas City 2 OPEN DATE: Dallas, Indianapolis, New YorkAtlanta 2, San Diego 1, 10 inn;ngs 
Cincinnati 3, San Francisco 2 Hockey League. 
Seattle 8, Taxas 4 Monday's Games TRANSACTIONS ST. LOUIS BLUES-Assigned Geoff Sarjeant Giants, Philadelphia, Phoenix. Washington. Sunday's Gamea Monday's Game
and Nick Vitucci, goalies; Dave Mackey, Jason Ruff Toronto 12, New York 2 Pittsburgh 10, Chicago 3 Los Angeles Raiders at Kansas City, late.
COLLEGE and Ron Hoover. wings; and Jason Marshall and 
Datron 13, Cleveland 3 Philadelphia 7, New York 6, 10 innings, 1st game Sunday, Oct. 4
NCAA-Named Washburn athletic director Rich Jell Batters, delensemen, to Peoria of the 
Boston 6, Battimora 1 Philadelphia 7, New Vorl< 6, 2nd game Chicago at Minnesota, 1 p.m. 
Johanningmaier council representative on the International Hockey League. Minnesota 4, Kansas City 0 St. Louis 4, Montreal t Green Bay at Atlanta, 1 p.m. 
Legislative Review Committee; Stanford wrestling WASHINGTON CAPITALS-Assigned BryonOnly games scheduled
MiNvaukee 5, Oakland 3 coach Chris Horpel to the wrestling committee; Dafoe, Duane Derksen and Olaf Kolzig, goalies; Indianapolis at Tampa Bay, t p.m. Chicago 3, California 2, 1 1 inn 1ngs Tueaday'a Games Miami at Buffalo, t p.m.
Danmouth assistant ski coach Sarah Bergstrom to John Slaney, Jim Mathieson, Ken Klee, Eric Texas 3, Seattle 2 New Orleans at Detroit, 1 p.m. 
Los Angeles at Cincinnati ( 
the men's and women's skiing committee; and Lavigne, Rob Leask, Bob Babcock and JlriSan Francisco at Atlanta
Monday's Gamea Kansas Cny at Denver, 4 p.m.
Boston College basketball player Bill Curley to a Vykoukal, delensemen; Randy Pearce, Darren Battimore 7, Boston 3 Los Angeles Rams at San Francisco, 4 p.m. 
Philadelphia at New Vorl< posnion on the recruiting commntee. McAusland, Steve Seftel and Trevor Halverson, lettPittsburgh at Chicago
Cleveland 6, New Vorl< 4 ARKANSAS-Named Danny Ford assistant wings; Steve Konowalchuk, Jell Nelson, Mike New York Giants at Los Angeles Raiders. 4 p.m. 
Montreal at St. Louis
Chicago 9, Minnesota 4 Seattle at San Diego, 4 p.m. 
football coach. Boback and Manin Jiranek, centers; and Keith Kansas City at Camornia, (n) Washington at Phoenix, 4 p.m. 
San DieQo at Houston 
DUKE-Named J.B. Clarke assistant lacrosse Jones, John Bryce, Trevor Duhaime, Steve Martell Only games scheduled coach. and Chris Longo, right wings, to Bahimore of the New England at New Vorl< Jets, 8 p.m. 
Tuesday's Games Wednesday's Gamea 
LOCK HAVEN-Announced its wrestling pro­American Hockey League. Loaned Andrei Sidorov, OPEN DATE: Cincinnati, Cleveland, Houston. 
New Vorl< at Cleveland Pittsburgh at Chicago, 2:20 p.m. Pittsburgh.
gram was placed on two years' probation by the right wing, to Hampton Roads of the East Coast 
Boston at Toronto Los Angeles at Cincinnati, 7:35p.m. Monday, Oct. 5
NCAA lor recru~ing violations. Hockey League. Returned Mike Mathers, left wing,Battimora at Detroit San Francisco at Atlanta, 7:40 p.m. MASS.-LOWELL-Announced the resignation of to Kamloops of the Western Hockey League. Dallas at Philadelphia, 9 p.m. Chicago at Minnesota Philadelphia at New Vorl<, 7:40p.m. 
James Coppo, softball coach. Released AI Macisaac. defenseman. 
Texas at Oakland Montreal at St. Louis, 9:05p.m. 
MISSISSIPPI-Announced Cooper Manning,
San Diego at Houston, 8:35 p.m. 
MiN¥aukaa at Seattle wide receiver, will no longer play football due to a Kansas City at Cal~ornia congennal problem and a bulging disk in his neck. 
The University of Notre Dame Warmly Welcomes 
Michael P. Esposito, r. 
Executive Vice President 
Chase Manhattan Bank and Alumnus of The University of Notre Dame 
Mr. Esposito is hosting a reception on September 30, at the University Club, Upper Level, from 6 to 8 p.m., and warmly extends an invitation to all students and faculty who are interested in a discussion about career opportunities in finance at Chase. 



, • .. '• 'l.•l..,_J -~L \...·t~' , 'V 
r------------------------------------~--~ ~~--­

SPORTS SHORTS 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club is holding an intermural horse show October 11 for all members. The registration deadline for new members is October 2. If you want more details call Megan 283­2784 or Julie at 283-4042. 
Irish Youth Hockey League is looking for ND students to coach or assist coaches during the upcoming hockey season. If interested, contact Scott Gosselin at 271-7414. 
The Aikido Club will be having open practices on Mondays and Wednesdays from 6-8 p.m. in Rockne 219. Everyone is welcome. 
ND/SMC Field Hockey will hold practice on September 28 and 30 at 9 p.m. for all interested. For more information, call Liz at 283-2670. · 
NO Ski Team and Club will have a mandatory meeting on September 29 at 8 p.m. in Room 127 MSA. All interested in the Aspen trip are welcome. Bring checkbooks for deposits and turtlenecks. If you have questions, call Chris at 273-2958. 
Officials are needed for RecSports co-ree basketball. There will be a meeting on October 8 at 5:30p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. 
RecSports is taking entries for campus badminton, men's and women's interhall volleyball and co-ree basketball. Entry deadline is October 7. 
SportsTalk welcomes Tom Carter and women's soccer star Rosella Guerrero at 8 p.m. Tuesday on WVFI 640 AM. Call in with questions and comments at 239-6400. 
-------~-----------------------, 
Tuesday; september 29;'1992 

1992-93 editions of 
du Lac: Student Life Policies and Procedures and Student Handbook 
are available to students in the Office of Hesidcnce Life 315 Administration Building 
Braves' magic number is one 
ATLANTA (AP) -The Atlanta 
a little when the Reds lost in 
Braves, whose big lead dwin­
San Francisco Saturday and the 
dled during a road trip as the 
Braves pulled out a pair of 10­
second-place Cincinnati Reds 
staged a last-gasp winning 
Diego over the weekend. streak, are ready to clinch the 
The Braves host the Giants on

Jackson, Veris to join new teams 
NL West title at home. 

Tuesday night and can clinch The Braves' magic number is 
the title if they win and therunning back D.J. Dozier. A lapsed.
(AP)-Keith Jackson and two with seven games to play. Reds lose to Los Angeles.
federal judge declared them "It was just about what I con­
Garin Veris, two of the four They once had a 10 1/2-game "We didn't want to get to
unrestricted free agents and sidered a basic freedom," Veris
former holdouts who were lead, but the Reds closed to 4 where it's the last week," saidbarred interference from their said. "I just felt they (the Patri­
given free agency by a federal 1/2 on Friday as they extended pitcher John Smoltz, who
former teams, which had ots) had a grasp on me and that 
court, took advantage of their their winning streak to nine started Sunday's game.
claimed exclusive negotiating I couldn't go any where. The games.
freedom on Monday to change rights with the four even court was the only way I could Braves fans were able to relaxteams. 
though their contracts had win my free agency.
Jackson, a three-time Pro Bowl selection at tight end for Philadelphia, agreed to a four­year deal with Miami. The Dolphins said he would arrive Tuesday to sign the contact and hold a news conference. 
Veris, a former New England defensive end, signed a two­year pact with the San Fran­cisco 49ers. 
Jackson, who made $300,000 in 1991 and reportedly was seeking $1.5 million per sea­son, said at halftime of ABC's "Monday Night Football" said Miami's offer "blew Philadel­phia's out of the water by a lot. Philadelphia's bid was not very competitive." 
He also said his decision "had a lot to do with the offense. I'm going to leave a great quarterback, but I'm going to a team with another great quarterback. I think I can fit it a lot better in Miami." 
He feels he can contribute quickly. 
"Hopefully, I'll be in uniform this weekend," he said. "''m going down to meet with the coaches and try to learn the offensive scheme. Last year, about four games in, Roy Green came to us and had a big game. I hope I can do the 
TEACH FOR AMERICA 
TEACH FOR AMERICAsame." 
makes it possible to teach in an 
Eagles president Harry Gam­ble said he was disappointed 
urban or rural public school without 
that Jackson decided to leave. 
being an education major!
"Keith is certainly a very tal­
Information Session 
ented player and in this busi­ness, you never like to lose tal­
Notre Dame
Teach For America is a national 
ented players," he said in a 
teacher corps of talented,
statement. "At the same time, however, I feel very comfort­
dedicated individuals from all 
able in saying that the 
academic majors and ethnic
Philadelphia Eagles made an 
September 29, 1992 at
extremely attractive contract 
backgrounds who commit two 
offer to Keith. Apparently, 
8:00p.m.
years to teach in under-resourced
Keith has made what he con­siders to be a decision that is 
114 o·shag
urban and rural public schools. 
in his best interest." 
Dallas and Detroit had ex­pressed interest in Jackson 
Salaries range from 
while the Washington 
S15,000-$27,000 and partial
Redskins earlier had pulled 
For more information contact
out of the bidding. 
cancellation (Perkins/NDSL) or your career center or call
The ruling that gave the four 
deferment (Stafford/GSL)
players their freedom had 
1-800-832-1230 
come in the aftermath of a 
of loans is possible. 
federal court striking down the NFL's Plan B system. Jackson went to court last week, along with Veris, wide 
receiver Webster Slaughter and 





·--,-----------------­Tt.~,e,Saay~ Seplember. 29,.1992 The Observer page<1-3' 
Women
MSU's Perles upbeat despite an 0-3 start 
continued from page 16 
EAST lANSING, Mich. (AP) ­His Michigan State team is 0-3, but Coach George Perles re­fuses to even think about ex­cuses. 
"I think we've been very consistent on that. We're al­ways optimistic. We don't talk about the negatives, we don't talk about the shortcomings, we talk in positive terms," Perles said Monday at his weekly media briefing. 
"I am the supreme optimist, never will I go to Chicago (for the season media kickoff) and talk about anything negative that would give a player an ex­cuse or give me an excuse not to do well. No sir." 
That's why hopes were fairly high for the Spartans· this sea-
NoTRE DAME CoMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
Wednesday, October 7, 8:10pm Thursday, October 8, 8:10pm Friday, October 9, 8:10pm Saturday, October 10,8:10 pm Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm 
Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed., Thurs. and Sun. performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 
STUDENT EXCHANGES at Clark Atlanta University in Atlanta, Georgia 
and 
Xavier University of Louisiana in New Orleans, Louisiana 
Spring 1993 
Informational Meeting Tuesday September 29, 1992 7:00 p.m. 
Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Student Center 
son, even though they were coming off last year's 3-8 disas­ter. The Spartans fell 14-0 Saturday to Boston College, which moved up from No. 25 to No. 22 with the victory. 
Perles stuck to his traditional "no excuses" approach in look­ing back at the loss, the third straight shutout for Boston College. 
"Defensively, there was some improvement, not enough to win and that's what it's all about, so there's no use talking about improvement and those kinds of things, winning is the name of the game," he said. 
"We did not do well offen­sively. The credit belongs to Boston College. They're a good football team. My prediction is that Boston College will play in a big-time bowl game this year. I think they're that good of a football team. 
"To have three shutouts is unusual in any league, to do that is very exceptional. When you have that kind of success, it really is a great motivator to the defense." 
Perles, still looking on the bright side, said the good news for the young Spartans -six seniors out of 22 starters -is that Big Ten play begins at home Saturday against Indiana. 
"We have done well in the Big Ten. There are very few years that we haven't ranked in the top half of the Big Ten. We've won the championship a couple times. We've been in second 
place and third place," he said. 
"We look forward to playing in the conference. We all go into the conference 0-0. It's a beautiful thing about being in the conference if you've had a slow start. We've had a few times when we've had a slow start and recovered during the Big Ten season. 
''I've been 0-4-1 and been to a bowl (the Gator Bowl after the 1988 season)." 
oses are 

Violets are blue Look who)s turning -21­It)s Becky Boo! 
Happy Birthday 
Love, Nancy, Clarisa, Missy, Mary Pat, J(athy & fen 
game as the second-rated scorer nationally, and was defensed well for the majority of the game by Irish defender Andi Kurek. 
"I think Andi did a good job, the only goal she scored at the end was not her fault," added Petrucelli. 
Kurek acknowledged the de­fensive job on Milbert, but credited the entire defense for holding her scoreless for so long. 
"I think I played real well," she said. "She's really fast, but I got a lot of help from the rest of the defense in controlling her." 
Portland coach Clive Charles respected the defensive effort displayed by the Irish, but never lost confidence in his high-scoring offense. 
"It's going to be very difficult to shut them (Milbert and McMillian) out," he said. "It takes two goals to beat us, be­cause we know one of them will score." 
The solid defensive effort couldn't overshadow the sec­ond consecutive loss in a game which Notre Dame should have won. Last Friday, 14th-ranked Duke visited Notre Dame and left with a win'·by the same score as yesterday's setback. The Irish had outplayed the Blue Devils for most of the game, but failed to capitalize on their scoring chances. 
In addition to the missed scoring chances, injuries also plagued Notre Dame in yester­day's loss. Forward Allison Lester was forced to miss part of the game with respiratory trouble, and defenders Julie Vogal and Gennifer Kwick­owski also missed time due to physical ailments. 
"With each game we come more and more desperate," commented Petrucelli. "Somewhere along the line, we're to take advantage of the opportunities and make some­one pay for this. We're too good to continue losing." 
ALL N D JUNIORS WELCOME 
The NEW Six Foot Combo Special From SUBWAY Is A Deliciously Affordable Change Of Taste For Your Next Group Function! 
SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure that you and your group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refund your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 
Great for Tailgate and After~Game Parties! 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 &lronwood/2n-7744 
US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 

*All Turkey Based 

--~------.....,-----~-~----~--­
page 14 
The Observer Tuesday, September 2·9: 1992 

Mornay Sauce wins Lyons Volleyball Tournament 
1and, who missed Friday's iiiiT~hiieiit~h~iriid.;g.am~eiiw.;a;Siia~niiiie~m;oii-iiii~b;e;stiiiith~i;n~g~th~a~tiih~ap~p~e~.n;e~d;.wiia;s;;~~~~~~~~;;;;;;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 
Sunday's Lyons Hall Volleyball Tournament was "a learning experience," according to tournament co-chairperson Wendy Holthaus, but it was also a success.Held on South Quad, the tournament featured lots of sun and music and drew 21 teams. The tournament's final match saw Mornay Sauce, led 
f 
by Aleks Mitrius, defeat the r Crunch-Berries in three games,
f 
15-7, 10-15, and 16-14. Sunday's final was not the
~ 
I 
first meeting of the two teams. They met in an off-campus volleyball-league match on I September 25, and, according to Crunch-Berry Josh Schafer,~ Mornay Sauce "kicked our 
I 
butts"-15-0 and 15-3, to be 
I 
precise. But on Sunday, the
I 
Crunch-Berries had emotion
I 
their side. Throughout the match, they rallied each other with shouts
~ 
I 
of "Portia!'' in honor of Crunch-Berry Jeff Holland's dog, Portia, who will be put to sleep on Monday. Another factor that 
f worked towards the CB's ad­vantage was the return of Hoi­
~ 
I 
I 
O's break 
I 
I 
I
' record for 
' 
I I I I 
! sell-outs 
! BALTIMORE (AP) -The Baltimore Orioles had their 59th consecutive home sellout on Monday night, matching
I 
what is believed to be a
I 
single-season major league record by drawing 45,663 for the 1992 finale at Camden Yards. 
No official record is kept on the subject, but the Orioles' sellout string is believed to have tied the streak of 59 sellouts by the 1990 Toronto Blue Jays at SkyDome. Toronto made it 60 straight on 
opening day, 1991. 
The Orioles, playing their first season in their new ball­park, had 67 sellouts in 80 dates this season. They would have had the single-season record for consecutive sellouts, but Friday's game against Boston was postponed by rain. 
Still, team officials had little to complain about. 
"I don't think we could have asked for a more exciting sea­son," said Janet Marie Smith, the Orioles' vice president for stadium planning and devel­opment. "The stadium itself was a draw, but it was wonderful that the team played so well." 
Title IX 
continued from page 16 
enough to satisfy all parties, from pigskin-crazy students and alumni, to the NCAA administrators, to women student-athletes, to the media. 
Give us a break. It is obvious Notre Dame is trying to win in a classic no-win situation. 
match to be with his dogs. 
However, the day belonged to Mornay Sauce. The combina­tion of Mitrius, Jake Cervantes and Joe Schuller was stellar all afternoon, with rocket spikes and consistent blocking. Teammates Dan Jensen, Ann Lilly and Kelly Crawford also played solidly in all matches. 
The final match started much like Friday's match ended, with Mornay running off 7 straight points behind Cervantes' serves in a game that ended 15-7. However, the CB's regrouped in the second game and jumped out to a 10-1 lead. Holland, Mike Hartmann and Elaine Cassidy led this run, and it looked like Mornay wouldn't score again. 
But Mornay quickly ran off 6 points of their own behind some sharp spikes by Schuller, Cervantes and Mitrius. The game ended with the CB's winning 15-10. In that run, the CB's got a huge emotional lift when Hartmann stuffed a Mitrius spike to make it 13-10, CB's. Mitrius didn't recover and put two balls out of bounds to seal the victory for the CB's and tie the match at 1-1. 

PROCTER & GAMBLE 
overview of our Finance organization and 
FINANCE 
The people of Procter & Gamble present an employment opportunities within it. 
We want you to Jearn more about us so we can learn more about you. 
NOTRE DAME RECRUITING 
INFORMATION PRESENTATION WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1992 NOTRE DAME ROOM LaFORTUNE 7:00 -9:00 P.M. 
CASUAL DRESS APPROPRIATE 
INTERVIEW DATES SEPTEMBER 30, OCT. 1,1992 
tion-filled game, with both teams playing all-out volleyball. With the score 12-6 in favor of Mornay, the CB's came back to tie, led by Brian Murphy's sheer hustle. 
On one point, Murphy ran yards out of bounds and dove to save an errant set, and the CB's took the point. However, with the score 15-14, CB Hartmann dove out of bounds and put the ball right into Joe Schuller's line of fire, and after the last of 
Schuller's rocket spikes, Mornay had the title. 
After the game, both teams agreed that it couldn't have been a better match. "Sheer intensity," said Hartmann. It was a match in which there were no losers, a fact Mornay's Mitrius agreed with. "They played a lot better today... having (Holland) helped them. Plus, they were playing for re­venge." He added, "We started to break down a bit mentally, but we were just clicking to­day." 
The tournament staff was equally pleased. 
"We really didn't know what to expect," said Stephanie Gallo, Lyons' co-president. "The that our dorm really came together. People were working at sign-ups all week. and al­most the whole dorm bought t­shirts." 
Wendy Holthaus was most pleased with the weather and location. 
"The day was gorgeous, and playing on South Quad really made a difference. When it was in Stepan, no one could really see it. Today, people could just come by to hang out and listen to music or get some sun." 
YVETTE 
Now it's our turn to cheer for you Happy 21st Birthday! 
47(1%!) fi1llJlWL.•»,,. 
Love, 
Mum, Dad, Monique, ]im, Emily, Pete & Tabitha 
The tournament, now in its fourth year, was held in mem­ory of Karen Whitman, a Lyons Hall resident who died July 23 of a heart attack during an aer­obics class. The tournament raised $500 for the American Heart Association, and some just stopped by to donate money. 
"There's a lot to improve on," said Holthaus, "but it was a good day and I hope it works as well next year." 

Today
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1992 
Page 15 


THE FAR SIDE 
GARY LARSON 

BILL WATERSON 

ACROSS 32 "King Olaf" composer
1 Organize, as 
33Tome, to
laundry 
Michel
5 Morning rouser 
35 Kid Gavilan's 
10 Jolson's "The 
punch
-Singer" 
36 Man, according 
14 Colorful fish 
to Aristotle 
15 Persian water 
39 Organic
wheel 
compound
1&Mishmash 
40 Actor Bogarde 
17Computer 
41 Astronaut's
display 
circle 
18 On the way 
42 Neighbor of 
19 Lake, in La Paz 
Cancer and 20 Strong allure Virgo 23 Consecrate 43 "And so to-" 24 Parts of mantras 44 Passions 25 Oscar-winning 45 Ex-coach actress: 1936 Parseghian 28 Scourge in 1918 46 Conceals in the 29 F.D.R. agency hand 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
...-:;-+;-t:::-~ 
~::±::-E-1 
48 Breeder's science 55 Best place for wurst 56 Creepy 57 Goddess of discord sa Egress 59 Type of campaign 60 Fragrant herb 61 Remain 
62 Exhausted 63 Lift for snow bunnies 
DOWN 
1 Body 2 Unlocked 3 Indian queen 4-sketch 
(concise description) 5 lzaak Walton, e.g. &Weavers' mainstays 7 Operatic solos 8 Ali's former 
kingdom 9 Southern bloomer 
11 Jai ­12 Swerves sharply 
~~~~~~~~m~~~~ 13 Close-up, in 
~ filming -;t;;:T:-:T;:::-f;-1 21 Awake -:+:;-+.;:+.:-+::-t 22 Flightless bird ........_...__......._........... 25 Push back 26 Solitary 38 Sutherland role 48 Fruity 27 Inuit's dwelling 43 Uplifting quenchers 28 Type of tale undergarment 49 Barber's call 

29 Dance band 44 Victoria's 50 Pelvic bones 
30 Director Rene consort 51 Fiber plant 
45 Friendship 31 Indianapolis 52 0live­
46 Culinary blend eleven 53 Capital of Latvia 
47 Vladivostok33 Biting inhabitant, e.g. 54 Belgian river 
34 Damage 35-soup (Chinese 
Get answers to any three clues 
favorite) 
by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
37 Without a clue 
or concept 5656 (75¢ each minute)• 
Calvin and Hobbes 

At the professional stick chaser's training camp. 
LECTURES Tuesday 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "The Structure of Israeli Opinion on Arab-Israeli Issues," Alan Dowty, faculty fellow. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies. 
8 p.m. National Hispanic Month Lecture: "What it Means to be a Hispanic Role Model," Tonet Anaya, former governor of New Mexico. Auditorium, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Student Union Board. 
Wednesday 
12:15 p.m. Fall Lecture Series Racism: Women's Voices, "Beating the Odds," Maritza Robles, South Bend Community School Corporation. Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. Sponsored by Center for Spirituality, Saint Mary's College. 


Saint Mary's Pasta Bar Greek Salad Sweet and Sour Meatballs 
by Bill Watterson 
•


...-. 
.. 
page 16 
JONATHAN 
JENSEN 
By DANIEL PIER 
Sports Writer 
Game Point The heat and humidity at this1-----------------1 weekend's William and Mary High IQ
Notre D arne's 
Tl.tle IX efforts Worthy Of Pral"se 
As I consummated my weekly ritual of reading the latest issue of Sports Illustrated this Friday, I came across something disturbing. 
No, it wasn't the fact that Penn State's underwear they call uniforms was rated as the top college uniform over our classic blue and gold, that was a couple weeks ago. 
No, it was a large article about the controversial Title IX, the longtime federal law that bans gender discrimination in college sports. 
It has been in the news quite a lot lately, as administrators and writers like SJ's Alexander Wolff have demanded that schools adhere to the mandate, despite the many hurdles against it. The biggest and most obvious hurdle being the fact that football and men's basketball pay for much of the other sports' expenses, being basically the only sports that produce revenue. Football obviously requires more money than any other sport, due to the large outlay for equipment and the sheer number of scholarships required. 
But throughout the article, the thing that disturbed me was that Wolff lambasted schools across the board, failing to mention some of the schools that are trying their best to leap these many hurdles and give women's college sports a chance, like Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame athletic director Dick Rosenthal and the athletic administration should be commended for trying to bring women's sports at Notre Dame up to par with their counterparts at larger state schools. 
In my first two years here, I have seen a school devoid of state funding, a school that just twenty years ago didn't even admit women, boast a NCAA Tournament women's basketball team, top-20 rankings for its women's soccer and volleyball teams, and highly competitive women's cross-country,_ swimming, and softball teams, just to name a few. 
Notre Dame has had to start from scratch in many sports, making their accomplishments all the more impressive. The women's soccer team originated in 1988 and the softball team just three years ago, in 1989. 
But yet, there has been sacrifices. The main reason the men's wrestling program was cut was to free up more scholarship monies for these women's teams. 
It is telling that Sports Illustrated can't recognize a school that is trying to make a difference, but it did give the thumbs down to our school for cutting the wrestling progam. 
Dropping the program was, of course, an injustice that should have been avoided at all costs, but it was for a good cause, if that says anything. 
This is the plight of the universities. No matter what schools do, whether it be cutting non-revenue men's sports, or doing what SI suggests and cutting football scholarships, it will never be 
see TITLE IX I page 14 
INSIDE SPORTS 
Volleyball results 
see page 1 

FL free agents sign 1••n~u coach responds to criticism 
Sports 
Tuesday, September 29, 1992 
Classic gave the Notre Dame volleyball team almost as much trouble as did its 
three opponents. 
Fortunately for the Irish, it wasn't much. Notre Dame breezed to the tournament championship by defeating Northeastern 15-7,15-11,15­11, William and Mary 15-8, 15-11, 16­14, and Georgetown 15-11.3-15,15-8, 15-11. 
"We showed perseverance," said Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown. "We played 3 matches in 26 hours under rather diiTicult conditions. I was very pleased that we hung in there." 
The tournament victory helped Notre Dame (12-1) hold its 20th spot in the nationalVolleyball Monthly poll. In the newly released NCAA Midwest Regional ranking, the Irish are listed fourth behind Illinois, Nebraska, and Penn State. The regional rankings, since they determine NCAA tournament bids, are even more important than national lists. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame rolled over Northeastern, giving Brown an opportunity play most of her reserves. Molly Stark garnered seven kills and seven digs to lead the offense and de-
Irish volleyball still away from home 
fense. 
Notre Dame then unleashed a balanced assault on William and Mary, led by Nicole Coates with 14 kills, Jessica Fiebelkorn with 13 and Christy Peters with 12. Fiebelkorn also tallied 17 digs and five bloek assists. 
Sunday, Irish struggled some against Georgetown due to the long weekend and difficult conditions. Notre Dame prevailed. however, and Fiebelkorn starred once again with 15 kills, seven digs, and three bloeks. Brown was impressed with the play of her senior middle blocker. 
"Jessica had a bit of a slow start this year," Brown commented, "but I was pleased with her this weekend. She had better timing and played very strong at the net." 
Notre Dame has a current five-game winning streak to go with its season­starting seven-game string, which was broken by Florida. There is no rest for the road weary, however, as Notre Dame travels to Illinois State tonight for its seventh straight match away from home. The Cardinals {10-2) are ranked fourteenth in the Midwest. Last year's squad topped the Irish in five games at Notre Dame. 
"We would definitely like to return the favor," Brown said of that match. "Illinois State is traditionally a very strong defensive team, and they don't 1ne uoserver 1JaKe Peters give ur,. We anticipate an excellent Marilyn Cragin spikes a shot past two blockers. match. The volleyball team plays at Illinois State tonight. 

DePaul will face pumped up Irish soccer 
By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
This time they'll be ready to play. 
After a lackluster performance against Indiana on Friday, the Notre Dame men's soccer team hopes to regroup today against DePaul in Chicago. Game time has been moved up thirty minutes to 4:30 p.m. 
"Nobody was pleased with the way we played (against Indiana)," Irish coach Mike Berticelli said. "But we have to be­come a better team after a game like that. I can't predict the outcome of the (DePaul) game, but I do know that we will be ready to play." 
They will have to be. DePaul is a potent offensive team, and the Irish defense has struggled lately. 
"They have a couple of very dangerous players and we will have to shutdown their attack," Berticelli said. "They also have a small field and that will force us to be more aggressive defensively." 
Offensively, the Irish have been up and down this season. In their three wins, they have totaled 14 goals, but in their three losses, they have managed just one goal. 
The quality of competition is certainly a factor in that discrepancy, but in early­season losses to Duke and UCLA, the Irish missed some key scoring opportunities. 
"With a break or two we could easily be 6-1," Berticelli said. "But that's all part of being young." 
Instead, they head into today's game at 3-3-1, focusing on improvement rather than wins and losses. 
Six sophomores and two freshmen fill the Irish starting lineup, and most of the key reserves are underclassmen. But they have shown flashes of brilliance against some top teams. 
"Other than the Indiana game, I am not disappointed with our performance this season," Berticelli added. "Our younger guys are really just starting to get a feel for game situations. Our goal is to be a better team in October than we were in September and I think we will be." 
see WOMEN I page 13 

see page 13 Michelle McCarthy dribbles around a defender. The Irish women lost to Portland 
For the second straight game, the Notre Dame women's soccer team lost a game it deserved to win. falling 2-1 to fifth-ranked Portland yesterday at Alumni Field. 
"They difference in the game was that they didn't have too many opportunities, but the ones they did they stuck in," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli, "whereas the opportunities we had, we failed to take advantage of." 
Both teams did take advantage of mistakes in the first half. Defensive miscues by both teams knotted the halftime score at 1-1. Notre Dame capitalized on the first error when a Portland defender allowed forward Jodi Hartwig to slip behind the defense for the game's first goal, a perfect shot beating keeper Erin Faley to her right. 
Notre Dame returned the favor minutes later when Tiffany Thompson attempted to pass the ball to Irish goalkeeper Michelle Lodyga, and Portland forward Shannon McMillian in­tercepted the pass resulting in an open-net goal knotting the score. 
The start of the second half featured missed opportunities by both team. Sterling defensive play by Lodyga, who stopped three consecutive threats with impressive saves, dwarfed Portland's attack, while Faley held her own against the speedy Notre Dame front line. 
The stalemate ended at the 84:10 mark on a goal by high-scoring forward Tiffany Milbert on a pass from McMillian. Milbert entered the 
The Observer I Jake Peters 

L-----------------" yesterday 





