-~~-----------------~-----­
The Observer 
VOL. XXV. NO. 3 WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Presidential candidates invited to speak at ND 
Special to The Observer 
University President Father Edward Malloy has invited both President George Bush and Governor Bill Clinton to speak at the University during the fall election campaign. 
Continuing a long-standing Notre Dame tradition, Malloy addressed letters to each of the presidential aspirants, inviting them to campus "to discuss is­sues of public concern related to the campaign." He also told the candidates that, if they were unable to accept his invi­•Veterans addressed/ page 5 tation, their running mates 
1952.
would be welcome to speak. 
That year, both Dwight
The tradition of election year Eisenhower and his Democratic
invitations to the candidates 
opponent, Adlai Stevenson,was established by Malloy's 
spoke at the University, and the
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
predecessor, Father Theodore 
pattern of candidate
Hesburgh, University president emeritus, in his first year as 
Get to work 
see INVITE I page 5 St. Edward's junior Darren Knutson, a mechanical engineering major, builds a loft outside his dorm. 

Notre Dame's president in 
Louisiana prepares for destructive Hurricane Andrew 
NEW ORLEANS (AP) -At least and power outages all over the Gov. Edwin Edwards declared below Miami, were left in ruins. Andrew will have been respon­three tornadoes were reported place. We've got 2,700 people in a state of emergency for all of The storm, packing sustained sible for more than double the in LaPlace, west of New Or­shelters and more out looking Louisiana and wrote to the winds of 140 mph and gusts destruction of Hurricane Hugo, leans, striking a subdivision and for shelters," Lafourche Parish White House requesting a dis­over 160 mph, hit the southern which had been the costliest doctor's office, authorities said. sheriff's Maj. Sonny Hanson aster declaration before the tip of Florida on Monday, tear­hurricane in this country. The sheriff, operating without said. hurricane hit. More than 2 mil­ing up trees, peeling away Authorities reported 14 electricity, called for A turn to the north late Tues­lion people in Mississippi, roofs, flattening walls and leav­deaths in Florida, and officials ambulances and said there day meant New Orleans could Louisiana and Texas were ing behind a tangled mess of said they thought the toll could were "multiple injuries," but expect 100 mph winds and asked or told to leave their mangled debris. Homestead Air rise. Metro-Dade police director details weren't immediately more hurricane than previously coastal homes. Force base was among the most Fred Taylor said police were available, state police Capt. forecast, according to the Traffic heading north from badly damaged places -going house-to-house in search Ronnie Jones said. National Hurricane Center. But the Cajun coastland was military officials said it was of people reported missing. 
Earlier, hurricane-force winds the city still was expected to be bumper to bumper for as far as nearly a total loss. There also were three con­over 7 4 mph prevented sheriff's spared a direct hit as the storm the eye could see on U.S. 90-Among other losses, two F-16 firmed deaths in the Bahamas, deputies from responding to moved farther west toward low­more than 3 1/2 miles at one fighter jets worth $14 million where Andrew passed through rescue calls from a stranded lying Cajun country. bend. Traffic was also tied up each were destroyed, Pentagon Sunday. 60-foot boat and stalled cars in The eye, moving just off the on Interstate 49. spokesman Bob Hall said. About Dade County, which includes Terrebonne Parish south of New coast, was headed for Morgan A Coast Guard helicopter res­70 other F-16s had been flown Miami, was under a dusk-to­Orleans, even though the City, an oil town virtually de­cued four people and two dogs out before the storm, but the dawn curfew, and about 2,200 storm's eye was still about 40 serted during the day. from a disabled 65-foot fishing two wrecked planes were being National Guardsmen took up miles offshore, civil defense "This swath of damage is boat in rough seas 50 miles repaired at the time and positions to stop scattered loot­coordinator Morris Duplantis going to be somewher.e around south of Houma. Sheriffs im­couldn't be flown. ing. More than 200 people had said. 40 to 50 miles wide," Sheets posed 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfews Dade County emergency been arrested for looting and 
"It's beginning to look pretty said. along the coast, and banned al­management director Kate Hale curfew violations by late Tues­bad," he said. Flooding was feared as the cohol sales. said her preliminary estimate of day. 
Lockport, east of Terrebonne storm began moving parallel to The evacuation orders carried damage in south Florida was President Bush toured dam­Parish, lost power at 7:15 p.m. the coast and slow, pummeling added weight because most $15 billion to $20 billion, and at aged areas in a police Jeep on amid reports of 100 mph wind a wide swath with heavy rain. people had seen pictures of the least 50,000 people were left Monday and pledged $50 mil­gusts. The rain began drenching the destruction in Florida, where homeless. lion in federal disaster aid. 
"We've got trees in the road coastal area ahead of the storm. parts of southern Dade County, If her figures are borne out, 
see ANDREW/ page 4 



Battles for Sarajevo intensify on eve of peace conference 
SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herze­govina (AP) -Outmanned and outgunned troops loyal to Bosnia's Muslim-led govern­ment claimed some successes Tuesday in their drive to break the Serb siege of Sarajevo. But a U.N. officer said it appeared the offensive was sputtering. 
Bosnia's Muslim, Serb and Croat factions have been trying to strengthen their positions before the Wednesday opening of a peace conference in Lon­don, sponsored by the Euro­pean Community and the United Nations. 
Lord Carrington quit Tuesday as the EC's chief negotiator in the crisis, saying he did not have the time needed to medi­ate a settlement in the former Yugoslav federation. All truces reached during Carrington's year of peace efforts collapsed. 
NATO leaders meanwhile de­layed a decision on sending 6,000 soldiers to guard relief shipments to Bosnia-Herzegov­ina. The United States and its allies are wary about becoming embroiled in the conflict, and a NATO source said the alliance wanted to see what happened at the peace talks. 
The upsurge in fighting Tuesday reduced already-mod­est hopes for the peace confer­ence. 
Similar efforts earlier failed to end the carnage, which began when Bosnia-Herzegovina's majority Muslims and Croats voted for independence Feb. 29. · Ethnic Serb militias want to remain united with the smaller Yugoslavia, which is dominated by Serbia and seized control of much of Bosnia's territory. 
At least 8,000 people have died in the fighting -U.S. Sen­ate investigators say up to 35,000 have been killed -and more than 1 million are home­less. 
Fighting erupted with new in­tensity in the Bosnian capital after a relatively quiet night. Mortar rounds and rockets smashed into the presidential building and adjacent military headquarters. Several large buildings, including a mod­ernistic, twin-tower high-rise, were ablaze by dusk. 
Warplanes flown by Serbs reportedly attacked the cities of Jajce, Tuzla and Hajici in Bosnia. The commander of Bosnian government forces, Sefer Haliovic, also accused Serbs of using "nerve gas" against his troops. 
These Bosnian claims could not be verified. 
Loyalist commanders said their troops were pressing an offensive that began over the weekend and scored some suc­cesses against Serbs ringing the capital. 
"If the siege of Sarajevo is not broken, we will all die," Hali­novic told reporters. 
But a senior military officer of the U.N. peacekeeping contin­gent in Sarajevo said the drive appeared largely unsuccessful. The officer, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity, said gov­ernment troops. were losing about 100 men for every 200 yards of territory gained. 
The loyalist commanders said they were short of ammunition and reinforcements. 
Officials said Tuesday's fighting killed 28 people and wounded 127 in Sarajevo. Ten deaths and 109 wounded were reported elsewhere in Bosnia. 
U.N. spokesman Yusuf Khalef said a mortar shell slightly wounded five U.N. soldiers in Sarajevo. 
Martin Bell, a correspondent for the British Broadcasting Corp., was wounded by shrap­nel. The BBC said his wounds were not life-threatening and he was flown to London. 
Seeking to lower casualties, the government ordered civil­ians off Sarajevo's streets. But power blackouts prevented of­ficials from broadcasting an announcement of the 48-hour curfew, which took effect at 1 
p.m. Tuesday. 
"This is horrible," said Zaim Hakovic, deputy commander of loyalist forces, as he looked at scores of inhabitants sitting in front of their apartment build­ing. "We want to save them, but we can't get the message across." 
The London peace conference will bring together squabbling leaders from the six former Yugoslav republics and heads of Bosnia's warring factions, as well as senior officials from Europe, the United Nations and the United States. 
"I believe our aim here is to find the framework for a dia­logue between all the protago­nists of the dispute. We want to mediate. We want to encourage a dialogue," said U.N. Secre­tary-General Boutros Boutros­Ghali, who will open the con­ference. 
Boutros-Ghali met Tuesday with British Prime Minister John Major. They were then joined at lunch by acting U.S. Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger, foreign ministers Roland Dumas of France and Andrei Kozyrev of Russia, and other officials for preliminary talks. 
In New York, the U.N. General Assembly approved a resolution introduced by 4 7 Muslim nations recommending use of force to end the fighting in Bosnia. 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Smokers 
infringe 


upon otHers' 
righ......t.......s_ 
This space has traditionally been a popular medium for criticism of the administration. Some of the authors' barbs are 

·ustified, others are at 
best dubious. But rarely is Brendan Regan 
the administration lauded Graphic Artist 
for its decision-making here. As a result of a po'"l"hlc....y.....,.,es'"t"""a-t.bi1lt...-sh"'"e"'d.t--t-t....-his summer, however, I feel compelled to do just that. The particular course of action it took which so moved me was the establishment o University buildings as smoke-free environments-"safe havens," if you will, for members of the non-smoking community. 
Let me explain why I take offense at the all too common practice of smoking in public areas. I firmly believe in the individual's inherent responsibility for his own actions, as they affect him and his neighbor; indeed, it is this fundamental premise that distinguishes ours from an anarchistic society. Rights cease to exist when they are not conditioned by restrictions. To paraphrase the brilliance of Justice Oliver Holmes, shouting "fire" in a crowd is not considered protected free speech; that is, your rights end at that point which they infringe upon mine. Polluting my breathing space is such an infringement. 
I'm not a pushy, ranting health freak who insists on bringing perfectly pink lungs to his grave; I'm not exposed to enough second-hand smoke, thankfully, that I'm concerned about possible risks to my health. (Perhaps I should be. I'd really be militant if I thought other people's inconsideration was shortening my time on earth.) I tend to to focus on the more immediate consequence-the horrid odor I'm forced to inhale. I am vexed as to why our otherwise considerate society tolerates people imposing on others in this manner. Those among us who offend others with auditory or aesthetic pollution are issued a citation; yet until several years ago a few rows of passengers could make the entire plane gag on their smoke (olfactory pollution) for hours without hope o escape. Honestly, I would rather share breathing space with an individual who has a bad case of flatulence. At least that air isn't lethal (usually). 
I assert that smoking has no redeeming social value whatsoever, and if you can defend its acceptability I invite you-no, I implore you-to write to me here and enlighten me. (Let me add, somewhat parenthetically, that the disdain I hold for that self-righteous group of fear­mongers known as environmentalists is enhanced whenever I see one of those hypocrites puffing away. Factories can't pollute, but they can.) 
I have dedicated this column to how one's actions affect others; I could write a short book about the gross miscarriage of justice which allows smokers who willfully ignore warnings to sue the cigarette manufacturer when they are dying from lung cancer. This obscene 
renouncement of personal responsibility for one's own actions is perhaps the only thing that disgusts me more than cigarette smoke itself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Wednesday's Staff 

Production  Sports  
Peggy Crooks  Rich Kurz  
Bryan Nowicki  Accent  
News  Jahnelle  
Frank Rivera  Harrigan  
Emily Hage  Susan Marx  
Viewpoint  
Kelly O'Rourke  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer Wednesday, August 26,1992 
FORECAST 
Partly cloudy and warm today with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. Highs 

TODAY AT AGLANCE 
CAMPUS 

Heart attack claims life of a Lyons Hall Junior 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Karen Whitman, a Notre Dame student from Mishawaka, Ind., died of a heart attack July 23. 
Whitman, who would have been a junior in NO's College of Arts and Letters this year, suffered the heart attack during an aerobics class. She was a resident of Lyons Hall. 
Whitman's father, Thomas Whitman, is a professor in the NO psychology department. 
Pangborn Hall Rector Cathy Lohmuller met Whitman during her freshman year, when Lohmuller was assistant rector at Lyons. Lohmuller recalled talking with Whitman about the future. 
"She had all the us.ual freshman-type questions about her major and about her future," Lohmuller said. 
Lohmuller called Whitman a quiet person with a gentle spirit. "She had one of the sweetest smiles I have ever seen," she said. 
Lyons Assistant Rector Karen Wells lived on Whitman's floor and will remember her quiet friendliness. "She always had a good sense of humor." 


OF INTEREST 
Pax Christi -NO will meet tonight at 8 p.m. at the chapel in the Center for Social Concerns. 
WVFI Staff Meeting for all DJ's. Shift picks will be Thursday, August 27 at 7:30p.m. in Montgomery Theatre at LaFortune. 
MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING August 25 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSEINDEX 
+0.13 to 226.47 

247.625,120 
S&P COMPOSITE 


+.089 to 411.61 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS 
+4.05 to 3.232.22 
GOLD 
+2.30 to $337.20 
SILVER 
+S.021 to $3.727 

Bully arrested on ND campus 
Notre Dame Security arrested a Pennsylvania man Monday for public intoxication on Juniper Road, assistant director Chuck Hurley said. The man, driving through South Bend en route to Chicago, had exited his car and was taunting students along Juniper north of Bulla Road at approximately 3 p.m. "He was trying to start a fight with students," Hurley said. No students were injured in the incident. The man was taken to St. Joseph County Jail. 
An Open Alcoholics' Anonymous Meeting will be held 
tonight and every Wednesday night at 6 p.m. in the Office 
of Drug and Alcohol Education in LaFortune. 
Phone books are available today and tomorrow from 8 
a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 1 to 5 p.m. at the Student 
Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
In 1920: Women received the right to vote with the ratification of the 19th Amendment. 
In 1941: British and Russian forces launched a joint invasion of Iran. 
In 1957: Ford Motor Company introduced the Edsel. In 1961: Burma became the world's first Buddhist republic. 
In 1978: Albino Cardinal Luciani was elected Pope John Paull. In 1985: Samantha Smith, the American girl who visited Soviet leader Yuri Andropov, was killed in a plane crash. 


~--·--------------~ ---------­
The Observer 

Wednesday, August 26, 1992 page 3 
Lopez appo1 nted act 1 ng Kroc 1nst1 tute head 
Spec1o1 to The Observer 
George Lopez, professor of government and interna­tional studies and faculty fellow in the University of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, has been appointed acting Regan director of the institute for the upcoming year. 
The position was vacated last year by John Attanasio, who announced last March that he was leaving Notre Dame to become dean of the St. Louis University Law School. Following that an­nouncement, Timothy O'Meara, the University's Provost, appointed and chaired a five-member search committee for a new director. 
"George Lopez is gifted both as a scholar and as an administrator," said O'Meara. "We are pleased that the work of the Kroc Institute will be so compe­tently overseen as the work of our search committee continues." 
Lopez has been a member of the University's faculty since 1986. His teaching and research concern repression, human rights 
We1come Back--Have a great semester at NDI 
Decorate vour room in stvle with flowers, plants, &balloons 
Heaven &Earth 
143 Dixie Way South (31 North) (1/4 mile North of Notre Dame) 
10% discount with Student I. D. 
Fast • Bot • Perfect 


271·1177 
Serving Notre Dame, St. Mary's & South Bend area 


,.. ------------.,----------------, 
IL-----------------1----------------.J 
1 I I  1·14'' Large 1 Topping  S6ftr. ~ + Tax  II I  2· l4'' Large $J,ftH .. ~ax 1 Topping  1 I I  
~  Pizza  ~  ~  Pizza  ~~  
Additional Toppings .95¢ each  I  Additio~al T?ppings .95¢ each  1  

Not Valid With Any Other Coupon Not Yahd With Any Other Coupon 

George Lopez 
monitoring, problems of peace research, and ethical assessments of war and other forms of violence. 
He has also been a consultant to several human rights organizations and with U.S. agencies interested in democratizing countries. 
The Regan directorship is named for Notre Dame trustee John Regan Jr., who endowed it. Regan, retired chairman of the board of Marsh & McLennan Compa­nies, Inc., is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. 
Fire fighters tackle California blaze 
ROUND MOUNTAIN, Calif.­Exhausted fire fighters spent a sixth day Tuesday tackling a 64,000-acre fire that already has ravaged an area twice the size of San Francisco and caused an estimated $5.5 mil­lion in damage. 
The fire, which has destroyed 307 homes in several hamlets along Highway 299, was kept in check overnight and was de­clared 50 percent contained. But fire bosses warned that flames could overrun contain­ment lines again if forecasts of milder winds proved false. 
"Cautiously optimistic is the term we are using," said U.S. Forest Service official Pam Bowman. 
In Idaho, a 257,000-acre fire -the largest of several burn­ing throughout the West ­threatened a tree believed to be the state's oldest ponderosa pine. The branches of the 186­foot tree caught fire Monday evening but it wasn't clear whether the trunk was burned. 
That blaze was about 70 per­cent contained by early Tuesday, but authorities had 34 more miles of fire lines to cut. 
The so-called Fountain fire in Northern California was the 
German tight-wing tetTor spree continues; groups oppose foreigners in Germany 
ROSTOCK, Germany (AP) ­Hundreds of right-wing radicals battled police guarding a refugee center Tuesday, the fourth consecutive night of at­tacks by neo-Nazis and other groups opposing foreigners. 
At least 500 youths, many shouting "Germany for the Germans," hurled firebombs and pieces of pavement at nearly 1,000 riot police, who replied with water cannons and tear gas. There were no im­mediate reports of injuries. 
A car was set afire near the shelter, which was evacuated a day earlier after an arson at­tack. The vehicle was appar­ently hit by a firebomb. 
Some Rostock residents have cheered right-wing extremists since the attacks began Saturday. 
"I find it especially objection­able that many people have stood there watching this dis­grace and even applauded," Chancellor Helmut Kohl said in an interview on the ARD tele­vision network. 
worst of several fires in the re­gion. It has blackened enough commercial timber to build 50,000 houses so far has cost $5.5 million. 
At its peak last week, the fire forced the evacuation of 7,500 people and drizzled ash as far away as San Francisco, about 200 miles to the south. 
n I OUs/ page 7 
For the second day, au tankers rained retardant onto the fire as it tested containment lines on two fronts of the oval­shaped burn area and shrouded the area with smoke. 
Along the northwestern edge of the blaze, fire fighters used bulldozers in Pit River Canyon to prevent flames from crossing the river into old-growth forests where the endangered spotted owl lives. 
Fire fighters to the south prepared to set controlled burns to rob the fire of fuel and protect hundreds of homes threatened early Monday when the fire leaped the lines. No new evacuations have been ordered, but people living in the Mill Creek subdivision and several roads outside the southwestern edge of the fire 
Germany's main Jewish group denounced the wave of anti­foreigner terror and compared the events to the early Nazi years. 
Further underscoring the dangers from neo-Nazis, a 23­year-old "skinhead" admitted in Koblenz to shooting a man dead and wounding five others on a square Monday night. 
Koblenz prosecutor Norbert Weise said the suspect, who was not identified, fired a 15­shot pistol at people clustered on the square. Weise said it did not appear to be politically mo­tivated. He said the suspect, who was alone, apparently acted "out of a general feeling of hate." 
And in the northeastern port of Rostock, masked thugs ram­paged through the offices of the newspaper Norddeutsche Neueste Nachrichten on Tuesday, smashing computer terminals and windows, dis­charging fire extinguishers and tearing pictures from walls. The paper said the assault appeared were not allowed home. 
Hundreds more living near the towns of Oak Run and Fern left at the urging of the California Highway Patrol after Monday's flareup. 
Crews with hand tools worked to secure the rest of the perimeter by snuffing out every smoldering ember closer than 150 yards to the lines. 
The fire turned most of Round Mountain, Moose Camp and Montgomery Creek into a blackened moonscape when it raced through last week. 
Elsewhere in California, fire fighters said a wildfire moving through 7,600 acres of timber and brush in the Mammoth Lakes area near Yosemite National Park was 30 percent contained. The blaze, which forced the evacuation of 1,000 people, was expected to be doused by this weekend. 
In Idaho, 11 wildfires have burned more than 320,000 acres during the past week. Rain and near-freezing night­time temperatures had helped fire fighters gain the upper hand on many of the fires, but those gains were threatened by temperatures expected to reach the 90s by Friday. 
to be retaliation for its reports on the violence at the refugee center. 
Right-wing violence aimed at foreigners has been growing along with an increase in public resentment over the costs of caring for asylum-seekers while Germany copes with economic problems from the reunification of Germany. 
Kohl said late Tuesday that Germans must "show the whole world that xenophobia is totally unacceptable" and "that hatred of foreigners is a disgrace to our country." 
Kohl said people who endan­ger foreigners must be dealt with using "the utmost firmness and severity" allowed by law. 
The Central Council of Jews in Germany demanded that politicians take greater heed of anti-foreigner feelings. 
"Support shown by more than a thousand onlookers for the right-radical storm troopers (who attacked the Rostock shelter) W\1-S especially offen­sive," the council said in Bonn. 
"With their applause, these onlookers were reminiscent of the culpable actions of those who 60 years ago made possi­ble the emergence of National Socialist (Nazi) barbarism." 
On Monday, extremists set the ground floor ablaze with firebombs while 115 Vietnamese huddled inside. The refugees escaped unharmed, and police drove off the rock­throwing radicals who yelled the Nazi salute "Sieg Heil" (Hail Victory) and chanted "Germany for the Germans." 
The first floor of the aban­doned center in the working­class Lichtenhagen section was wrecked and charred cars lined the street outside. 
About 200 people rallied out­side city hall Tuesday to de­nounce the violence. 
Lothar Kupfer, interior minis­ter for Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania state, where Rostock lies, said the far-right "skinheads" frustrated police efforts by using band radios to jam police frequencies or eavesdrop on communications. 
Support for the attackers was fed by German impatience with hundreds of Gypsies and Vietnamese. 

----~ 

page 4 The Observer Wednesday, August 26, 1992 

Bernste1 n rece1 ves Study: smokers doub1 e risk in 
Pres1dent1al award 
Special to The Observer 
Gary Bernstein, a Notre Dame assistant professor of electrical engineering, has been named as one of 30 scientists and engineers nationally to receive President Bush's first Presidential Faculty Fellow Awards. 
The award is designed to recognize and support "young faculty members who demonstrate excellence and promise both in research and teaching." Managed by the National Science Foundation, the program features a $500,000-$100,000. grant annually for five years. 
"Gary Bernstein has almost single-handedly established a new dimension in the electrical engineering undergraduate and graduate programs at Notre Dame," said Edward Malloy, 


Andrew 
continued from page 1 
After raking southern Florida, Andrew turned slightly north, but not as sharply as New Orleans feared. Hurricane warnings were extended west into Texas, but the storm ap­peared headed for the middle of the Louisiana coast. 
"A couple degrees farther north and this would be the ab­solute worst nightmare for New Orleans," forecaster Max May­field said. 
Sandbag walls were erected around the South Central Bell building in New Orleans. 
University president. In nominating Bernstein for the award, Malloy also said, "A new faculty member could not contribute more to the general welfare of a department than has Gary." 
Since joining the faculty in 1988, Bernstein has given the University an entirely new experimental capability in microelectronics. His main accomplishment was creating a complete laboratory for fabricating and processing integrated circuits. 
Bernstein attributes the recognition of his work to the strong blend of graduate and undergraduate teaching it . incorporates. "I believe this is the way of the future," he said. "The expense of maintaining a sophisticated laboratory warrants that it serve both in teaching and research." 

deve1 opment of cataracts 
CHICAGO (AP) -People who smoke a pack or more of ci­garettes a day are twice as likely to develop cataracts, and up to one-fifth of U.S. cataract cases may be caused by smok­ing, according to two studies published today. 
The studies, reported in the Journal of the American Medi­cal Association, tracked 17,824 male U.S. physicians from 1982 through 1987 and 50,828 female U.S. nurses from 1980 through 1988. 
Among the doctors, men who smoked 20 or more cigarettes a day were 2.05 times more likely to be diagnosed with a cataract than those who never smoked. 
Among the nurses, women who smoked 35 or more ci­garettes a day had 1.63 times the likelihood of undergoing cataract surgery as non-smok­ers. 
Cataracts, the clouding of the eye lenses, affect about 3 mil­lion Americans. 
"If one assumes a roughly two-fold increased risk of cataract associated with smok­ing, then ... approximately 20 percent of cataract cases are attributable to smoking in the 
U.S. population," according to an editorial accompanying the study. 
"For now, it 'appears that the litany of ills associated with smoking is growing, as we add to it cataracts, the world's lead­ing cause of blindness," con­tinued the editorial, by Sheila West of the Dana Center for Preventive Ophthalmology at Johns Hopkins Hospital. 
Researchers who studied the men said smoking may reduce the number of nutrients in blood plasma that keep the lens clear. 
Of the men studied, 1,188 smoked 20 or more cigarettes daily, and 59 cataracts devel­oped among them, a rate of 2.5 cataracts per 100 eyes. Among the 9,045 subjects who never smoked, 228 cataracts devel­oped, a rate of about 1.3 per 100 eyes. 
Smokers of fewer than 20 ci­garettes daily had no increased risk compared with non-smok­ers. 
Former smokers had 1. 4 times the risk of non-smokers for one type of cataract, but no increased risk for another. 
Further study is needed to determine whether a "dose-re­sponse" relationship exists ­that is, if the more someone smokes the greater they are at risk of developing cataracts ­said Dr. William Christen, an instructor at the Harvard Uni­versity Medical School. 

Hurricane storm surges 
Surges cause drownings and property damage. Within the storm's eye, a violent drop in pressure has a 'plunger' effect on the sea where walls of 
is now accepting application for the 
high water are generated and radiate outward, flooding low coastal areas. 
following position: 

BUSINESS COPY EDITOR 
To apply, submit a resume & personal 
statement to David Kinney by Thursday, 
Aug. 27. For more info call 239-5303 
SENIORS! 




SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGN-UPS 
, 

ONE TIME ONLY 
NOW 
LaFortune Information Desk 10:00 AM-8:00PM Tuesday, August 25 -Friday, September 4  North and South Dining Halls During Lunch & Dinner Hours Tuesday, August 25-Friday, August 28  


DON'T MISS YOUR ONLY SHOT! 
~------------------------------­
VVednesda~August26, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Clinton and Bush address American Legion convention 
CHICAGO (AP) -Bill Clinton appealed to veterans Tuesday not to oppose his presidential candidacy just because he avoided serving in Vietnam. President Bush pointedly re­minded them that when his time came to serve in World War II, "I was scared but I was willing." 
The presidential rivals ap­peared two hours apart before an American Legion convention, first Bush extolling his ex­perience as a wartime fighter pilot and commander-in-chief, then Clinton trying to bury the controversy over his Vietnam­era draft status. 
"You know I never served in the military; you know I op­posed the war in Vietnam," the Arkansas governor said. "But I want you to know this: I was never against the heroic men who served in the war." 
"If you choose to vote against me because of what happened 23 years ago, that's your right and I respect that," Clinton said. "But it is my hope you will cast your vote while looking to­ward the future with hope rather than remaining fixed to the problems of the past." 
The veterans applauded. 
In raising the matter before a veterans' group Clinton hoped to blunt it as a campaign issue. He compared his action to John Kennedy's going before the Greater Houston Ministerial Association in 1960 to face head-on the issue of' people voting against a candidate be­cause of his Catholic religion. 
"If I should lose this election on the real issues, I shall be sat­isfied that I tried my best and was fairly judged," Clinton said. 
Bush, too, used his appear­ance to defend himself -in the president's case against accu­sations that he stopped the Gulf War too soon rather than send­ing troops into Baghdad to crush Saddam Hussein's gov­ernment. 

CAMPUS (OPEN TO ALL N.D. STimENTS, FACULTY & STAFF) * Co-Ree Softball*  
GRAD. STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ONLY *Baseball* *Touch Football* *Tennis Singles-Men and Women* * Tennis Mixed Doubles *  
NOTRE DAME UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS ONLY * Football -Men and Women * *Tennis Singles-Men and Women* * Tennis Mixed Doubles * * Freshman Swim Meet * *Baseball* * 16" Softball *  

ENTRY DEADLINE: SEPI'EMBER 2 
Taco Bell Presents 
AMERICA'S ROCK 'N' ROLL BAND 
See them two way~CTR/C...THEN ACOUSTtC~ 
0 
~.,. 

TACO 

11ELL. 

"We are not in the slaughter business," Bush said, raising his voice. "We were in the business of stopping aggression and I don't like these historical revisions. We did the right thing." 
Bush, who also was ap­plauded by the Legionnaires, said his top military advisers as well as Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf on the scene, had told him the battle had been won and it was time to stop. 
Both Bush and Clinton lav­ished praise on the veterans and were well received in re­turn; Clinton drew the most applause, a result of his being far more detailed in his promises to support veterans' programs and causes. 
Among the Legionnaires, opinion was mixed on whether Clinton's lack of military service and the steps he took to avoid being drafted should be a campaign issue. But there was no mistaking the dissatisfaction with Bush over the administra­tion's handling of veterans' af­fairs and the economy. 
"Like everybody else, the economy is the issue," said Ohio delegate Gerard Entingh, who said he had not decided how to vote in November. "Whether Clinton served or not is not an issue, although it is to some of these people." 
Like Roger Munson of Ohio, who said, "President Bush is a veteran and a Legion member. Sure it matters." 
Clinton, saying he owed vet­erans "one final statement" on the issue, told the group he got a draft notice in 1969 and was told by his draft board he could finish his school year. He said he then joined an ROTC pro­gram to avoid the draft, but soon reversed that decision and submitted to the then-new draft lottery, only to draw a high number and never be called. 
"I would have served and gone to Vietnam if called," he said. "But I have to tell you the truth: I was relieved when I saw my number was 311, not because I didn't want to serve my country but because I be­lieved so strongly that our pol­icy in Vietnam was wrong." 
He was interrupted with ap­plause more than 25 times as he promised to honor veterans "with deeds, not words." He pledged to protect and expand veterans' health and other programs and open the Pen­tagon files on Americans missing in action. 
Trying to counter Bush's "experience" theme, Clinton said Presidents Lincoln, Wilson and Roosevelt had no military experience but sent American troops into battle. "I do not rel­ish this prospect, but neither do I shrink from it," Clinton said. 
Bush, like Clinton, promised a full accounting of missing American servicemen. 
The president also promised to protect health programs and said the new job-training pro-




Welcome Back Students 
We Haven't Missed A Beat 
Since You Left! T ues: 50% off Wed: Penny Cup Night 
8~2 a.m. Thurs: Dollar Night Velcro jumping Cotnpetition 
Q JACC 
0 




El ...And The Party Continues 
1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend, IN 288-0285 
posal he unveiled Monday would help outgoing servicemen and defense workers in transition. 
But there was clear dissatis­faction with administration handling of veterans' affairs so far, vividly shown by the booing of Secretary of Veterans Affairs Edwin Derwinski when he was introduced with Bush. 
The president said he had not come to give a partisan speech but then recalled the energy and hostage crises of the Carter administration, and repeatedly said his military service gave him the experience to be com­mander-in-chief. "I hope I have earned your trust," said Bush, a life member of Legion Post 77 in Houston. "The bond we share links us." 
Meanwhile, Bush aides dis­tributed to reporters a handout questioning Clioton's candor about his draft status in 1969. 
The vice presidential candi­dates also were campaigning hard on Tuesday, Vice President Dan Quayle on a whistlestop train trip in North Carolina and Tennessee Sen. AI Gore touring a supercomputer in Columbus, Ohio. 
At each stop, Quayle derided Clinton as "Tax Hike Bill," contending he had raised taxes repeatedly in Arkansas and would do the same in Washing­ton. Gore ridiculed Bush's new job-training proposal, saying it was "designed to save only two jobs." 

Invite 
continued from page 1 
appearances has been repeated in virtually every national elec­tion since. 
Richard Nixon in 1956, Henry Cabot Lodge in 1960, William Miller in 1964, Edmund Muskie in 1968, Sargent Shriver in 1972 and running mates Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale in 1976 all have addressed the Notre Dame community during their campaigns. 
Ronald Reagan spoke at neighboring Saint Mary's Col­lege in 1980 and Mondale re­turned to campus as a presi­dential candidate during the spring primary season in 1984. 
Most recently, then-Vice President Bush spoke at the University a week prior to elec­tion day 1988. 

Futons! Futons! 
Twin Set 169.00 Mattress only 89.00 Frame only 89.00 

Waterbeds start at $149.00 
~ 

Free delivery with this ad 


TOWN & 
COUNTRY 
The Observer

page 6 VVednesday,August26, 1992 
Allies plan to set up Iraqi 'no-fly zone' 
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) -The government vowed Tuesday to fight Western plans to set up a "no-fly zone" to protect Shiite Muslims in southern Iraq and the official media said the re­gion "will be a graveyard for the fleeing invaders." 
The government-owned Al­Jumhouriya newspaper said Iraqis of all religious and ethnic backgrounds will fight the "cheap and evil plot hatched by the tripartite alliance and blessed by the corrupt sheiks of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait." 
President Bush had been ex­pected to announce Tuesday that the United States, Britain and France would shoot down Iraqi war planes south of the 32nd parallel, where Iraq is fighting an insurrection by re­bellious Shiites. 
But Bush's spokesman Marlin Fitzwater, asked when the ban was likely to be clamped, said "I don't think today." 
A senior U.S. official said the warning notice was likely to be delivered to Iraq on Wednesday. He refused to be quoted by name. 
In London, Acting U.S. Secre­tary of State Lawrence Eagle­burger said he "would be very surprised if we don't collectively go forward" with the plan. 
Eagleburger added: "I think it's high time to take strong measures to bring Iraq and Iraqi leaders in accord with 
U.N. resolutions." 
Iraqi Prime Minister Mo­hammed Hamza al-Zubaidi said Iraq planned to block the establishment of the protective aerial umbrella. 
"President Saddam Hussein is fully determined to confront injustice and prevent any for­eign intervention that would undermine the sovereignty of great Iraq," the prime minister said in a statement without elaborating on Baghdad's op­tions. 
His deputy, Tariq Aziz, said in a separate statement carried by the official Iraqi News Agency that the proposed zone was "an attempt to undermine Iraq's unity and divide it along ethnic and sectarian lines." 
Some Arab governments also have reservations. Syria, Sad­dam's main Arab foe and a partner in the coalition forces that fought against Iraq and liberated Kuwait in the Gulf war last year, has said it opposed any plan that threatened the unity of Iraq. 
Bushra Kanafani, Syrian spokeswoman to the Mideast peace talks being held in Wash­ington, said Monday that "many of us in the Arab world, including the Syrians, have our fears that certain steps meant to help in this way or another way might create a de facto partition of Iraq, which all the Arab world stands against." 
Kuwait so far has been the only country to agree to the deployment of allied warplanes on its territory for the monitor­ing plan, Arab and Western diplomats have said. 
U.S. officials say influential Saudi Arabia has backed the scheme. 
Iraq calls the plan a conspir­acy to partition the nation into three zones -a Shiite south, a central region controlled by 
Indiana Auto Insurance Our good rates may save ycAJ money. Call lOr aquote 9-5, 289-1993. Office near camp..IS. 
Saddam's Sunni Muslim-domi­nated government and the Kurdish north. 
Al-Jumhouriya accused Iran of colluding with the West by harboring and training "stooges" in the hope of fulfill­ing the "ambitious and aggres­sive dreams" it failed to achieve during the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war. 
"If the aggresl;ors ever try ... they will face a people who fought for eight years and are still determined to inflict defeat on all those who try to tread on its sacred soil," the newspaper said. 
U.S. officials said a warning was sent to predominantly Shi­ite Iran not to try to take advan­tage of the situation. Tehran has been a traditional backer of Iraq's Shiites, who make up 55 percent of the 17 million popu­lation. 

Carrier pilots await possible combat versus Saddam's pilots over Iraq 
ABOARD THE USS INDE­PENDENCE (AP) -The pilots and crew on this aircraft carrier spent Tuesday, like most days recently, "riding the roller coaster" wondering whether they would be called to police southern Iraq. 
If the United States and its allies declare a "no-fly zone" in southern Iraq -stopping President Saddam Hussein's air campaign against Shiite Muslim rebels -the USS In­dependence and its eight­ship battle group would be some of the enforcers. 
Forces at sea could bear the brunt of the responsibility, because of the Arab reluctance to open airfields for missions against Iraq. Only Kuwait, which Iraq invaded and plundered in 1990, has expressed support to make its airfields available. 
"We can put a significant force in that area and sustain it for a considerable period of time," Rear Adm. Brent Bennitt told reporters aboard the carrier 250 miles southeast of Kuwait. 
"I would hesitate to say it would be the main compo­nent, but it would be a significant one," he added. 
There have been no orders for the 70 aircraft on the carrier to start flying such missions, but they are ready, the 50-year-old admiral said. 
The 32nd parallel, which would form the northern boundary of the no-fly zone, is 370 miles north of the ship, within easy reach of the aircraft on board. 
Carrier pilots during last year's Gulf War got about 12 hours notice before they be-, gan bombing runs. 
The admiral dismissed Iraqi threats to turn the marshes into a "graveyard" for American pilots. 
"I would say that is a gross exaggeration," he said. 
Nevertheless, the possibility of a confrontation with Iraq makes for a constant level of tension on board the Independence. 
"It's a roller coaster ride. I'm on a straightaway some­where now," said Lt. Pat Brannan, 29, of Pilot Point, Texas, who flies A-6 Intruder planes. 
"In some ways it's more difficult than if we were al­ready in some kind of open conflict because there is a tremendous amount of stress and minor anxiety from just not knowing," said Lt. Will Royster, of Black Earth, Wise., who also flies an A-6. 

There's a lot mo.re than a great a bonus book that's good for free calculator waiting for you when software, a free PC link cable you purchase an HP48SX oran and hundreds ofdollars back HP 488 between June 1, 1992, on applications-like electrical and October 31, 1992. You11 get and mechanical engineering­
memory cards, training tools, 
games, and HP's infrared printer. It's a really big offer. Worth more than $500. And it's going to make your HP48 calculator even more valuable to you. The free serial cable lets you exchange information with your PC. And the free software disk lets you enter and plot equations easily, do 3D plotting, and analyze polynomials. 
01992 Hewlett-Packard Company PGI2203B 

Beyond all the bonuses, you11 have the right calculatorfor your most challenging classes. HP48 calculators have over 2100 built-in functions and offer a unique combination of graphics and calculus. 
Head over to the campus book­store now. After all, you don't see this kind ofdeal every day. HP calculators. The best for your success. 
Ff/n-HEWLETT 
~a PACKARD 
Wednesday, August 26, 1992 The Observer page 7 
Intruder fatally shot in chancellor ..s mansion 

BERKELEY, Calif. (AP) -Po­lice fatally shot a young woman wielding a machete and a hunting knife after she broke into the University of California chancellor's on-campus home Tuesday. 
The woman best known by the alias Rosebud Abigail Den­avo was a radical political ac­tivist arrested last year for pos­sessing explosives. Authorities didn't know her real name. 
Police alerted to the break-in by a silent alarm telephoned UC Berkeley chancellor Chang-Lin Tien to warn him and his wife about the intruder. They locked themselves inside a bedroom and were not harmed. 
Officers rushed to the home and confronted the woman. 
"She made some threatening movements and the police offi­cer shot her," said Bob Sanders, a school spokesman. 
Tien went to work as usual as 
Th1 rd d1 es 1 n Un1 vers1 ty shoot1ng 
MONTREAL (AP) -A third professor gunned down in a Concordia University shooting rampage died Tuesday, shortly after one of his engineering department colleagues was ar­
The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
raigned for the slayings. 


Preparing for c 1 ass 
The latest victim was Jann Saber, 46, an associate profes­
Lewis Hall junior Dena St.Clair, a pre-professional business major, 
sor of mechanical engineering.
looks at her syllabus for her history course, Imagining Nature 1492­
Another professor and a secre­
1992, outside O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
tary are hospitalized with 
Ca1ifomi a firefighters work 24-hour shifts for I OUs 
ANDERSON, Calif. (AP)-Fire Fighters battling California's wildfires aren't joking when they wear T-shirts saying, "All This For An IOU?" 
Rolling into fire camp Tuesday after 24-hour shifts on the Fountain Fire about 40 miles to the northeast, they were 
I • I ALUMNI .... SENIOR 

....CL 

Seniors, Your place opens tonight. Don't miss it. 


Start the year offright! 
The place to be for the Class of 93 
Must be 21 yrs. old 
exhausted, filthy, thirsty, hungry -and broke because of the state budget crisis. 
"Everybody's upset," said California Department of Forestry engineer Brian Web­ster. "Nobody likes getting paid with IOUs. We have mortgages to meet, bills to pay, kids to feed." 
State fire fighters were paid with IOUs last month and politicians are still deadlocked in a multibillion-dollar budget crisis. 
State fire fighters expect to get their next monthly IOU in a few days. This time, however, fewer banks are cashing them. 
the campus prepared to open for classes on Wednesday. 
The woman, who authorities say was 19 or 20, was a well­known radical in a city that is home to many activist groups. Friends gathered at People's Park, the site of protests dating to the 1960s, to mourn her death. 
"She believed in violence as one element of creating a soci­ety that is equitable," said Alice Kostin, 25. 
Some said police didn't need to shoot, arguing the petite woman could have been dis­armed or persuaded to surren­der. Others on campus dis­agreed. 
"Why is it necessary to speak with a machete? Why not speak with words?" said Jeff Allen, 18, a Berkeley sophomore. "(Tien) would have definitely met with her and listened to her concerns." 
David Linn, an attorney who had represented Denovo, said she was from Kentucky and spent many of her teen-age years traveling around the country. 
Denovo was one of several aliases university police said she was known to use. She was active in last summer's protests over plans to renovate People's Park, which opponents said would displace homeless people living there. 
Even before the protests, De­novo had become a familiar face to Berkeley and university police who arrested her at least a half-dozen times for offenses ranging from prowling to weapons charges. 
She was arrested most re­cently last week on a battery charge after a confrontation with the owner of a shop where she rented a mailbox, said her lawyer, David Beauvais. 
wounds after the Monday shootings. 
Valery Fabrikant, 52, a pro­fessor of mechanical engineer­ing, was arraigned in court Tuesday on charges ranging from first-degree murder to il­legal use of a firearm. Psychiatric tests were ordered and a request for bail was de­nied. 
He must appear September 2 in Quebec Superior Court to set 
a date for a preliminary in­quiry. 
Fabrikant, who immigrated from the Soviet Union in 1979, had been embroiled in a feud with fellow academicians and the university administration over his tenure and research. 
"He thought everybody was against him," said Douglas Hamblin, associate dean of engineering and computer science. 
Even worse, several fire fighters said, the budget crisis and government cutbacks have hurt fire fighting efforts. There are significantly fewer engines, hand crews and air tankers available to battle blazes, they said. 
Earlier this month, Webster phone loved ones and board their fire engines to go back out on another 24-hour shift. 
Despite financial difficulties, fire fighters at the camp have come up with enough extra money to make the "All This For An IOU?" T-shirt the hottest selling item around. 
said, a strike team of five fire engines from Southern California pulled off the freeway for gasoline as they headed north to join the battle against a Mariposa County blaze. 
The service station owner refused them gas, saying he did not want to be paid by IOU. 
At the Anderson camp, fire fighters sleep, eat, shower, 
Shasta Silly Shirt store owner Charlotte Ruskowitz said she has sold about 75 T-shirts at $10 apiece. 
"Some of the fire fighters have asked us if we would take an IOU for the T-shirt," she said. "They were joking, I guess. We haven't." 

pege B The Observer 
Corruption charges spark Brazi 1 protest 
BRASILIA, Brazil (AP) ­From city streets to the halls of Congress, pressure mounted Tuesday for the impeachment of President Fernando Collor de Mello, embroiled in a corrup­tion scandal. 
Congress released a scathing report Monday that accused Collor of taking $6.5 million in "undue benefits" from his 1989 campaign treasurer Paulo Cesar Farias. 
Investigators said Collor knew Farias was running an extortion ring that took millions of dollars from businessmen in return for government contracts or favors. . In Sao Paulo, more than 30,000 elementary and high­school students chanting "Collor in Jail" and "Impeachment Now" marched through the banking district. Many wore striped prison-type shirts and waved Brazilian flags. 
Street vendor Carlos Ferrer sold T-shirts bearing the words: "I believe in the president, and in elves, Santa Claus and virginity." He said business was brisk. 
The report will be grounds for a petition to Congress by the Brazilian Bar Association for the impeachment of Collor, Brazil's first freely elected president after 21 years of mili­tary rule. 
"The president has lost the moral conditions to govern the country," said Gov. Luiz Antonio Fleury Filho of Sao Paulo, Brazil's richest and most popu­lous state. 
The 22-member panel of in­vestigators is to vote Wednes­day whether to approve the re­port. But the government al­ready concedes it will lose. 
"Challenging the report would just radicalize the debate. It would be counter-productive," said Rep. Roberto Jefferson, one of Collor's most stalwart defenders on the panel. 
Instead, the government will try to block an impeachment request at Congress. where a two-thirds majority is needed to open proceedings. A vote is ex­pected by Sept. 8. 
Collor has tried to shore up support by opening the public coffers to "friendly" legislators. He recently gave a pay raise to the military and released $400 million for low-cost housing and sanitation projects. 
But the government forces were seriously weakened when the leaders of two pro-govern­ment parties announced they would support impeachment. 
The center-left Democratic Labor Party broke with Collor at an "anti-corruption" rally Monday night that drew more than 100,000 people in Rio de Janeiro. 
More damaging was the withdrawal of support by the conservative Social Democratic Party. one of Collor's earliest backers. Party President Paulo Maluf called for a "shock of morality" in government. 
United Nations calls for more troops after 1 1 
aid workers killed in Somalia 
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in January 1991, law and order has been replaced by clan warfare. Barre had fueled clan divisions by carrying out purges of clans opposing his regime. 
The International Committee of the Red Cross said Tuesday that 11 employees were killed last Wednesday as the Red Cross was trying to transfer them and their families out of the city of Kismayu. 
"They were of a different clan of those in Kismayu and felt unsafe," said Gregoire Tav­ernier, an ICRC spokesman in Nairobi, Kenya. 
He said local authorities had guaranteed the workers' safety but "uncontrolled elements" stopped them at Kismayu's air­port. 
The Observer 
Systems Department is hiring for the paid position of: 
Typesetter 
If any questions, please contact Patrick Barth@ 239-7471 
··~ ~ -............................... -............................ --,._ ....................... ----·---· ............. ~ .. ·····-· ....... # ..... 
Wednesday, August 26, 1992 

New Vork park reopens 
NEW YORK (AP) -The in folding chairs awaiting a city opened a refurbished puppet show, a group of park on Tuesday with about 50 angry activists clowns and a puppet show surged toward the police -and a shouting match cordon in front of the stage, between Mayor David shaking their fists and Dinkins and activists who screaming epithets. accused him of "police "Liar! Police state! Get out state" tactics to keep out the of here!" bellowed one man homeless. with a bullhorn. 
Tompkins Square Park Some activists unfurled was closed a year ago after banners and handed out several clashes between leaflets protesting what they police and defenders of a said were city plans to rein­shantytown of homeless state a nightly curfew to people. keep the homeless and 
Following their eviction, "bums" out of the park. the city spent $2 million to It was a police attempt to restore the block-square enforce a 1 a.m. curfew that park in Manhattan's East triggered violent protests in Village, installing new August 1988, the most seri­greenery, walkways, play ous disturbance until the areas and an outdoor stage. shantytown was dismantled. 
Dinkins pointedly declared When an activist reporter that the park was for use persisted in interrupting "by families and children" Dinkins, the mayor lost his as he formally reopened the temper. "You are the park. sorriest excuse for a 
While three dozen some­reporter I've ever seen," what befuddled children sat Dinkins said. 

THE NOTRE DAME SPORTS MARKETING DEPARTMENT IS LOOKING FOR STUDENT ASSISTANTS TO HELP PROMOTE OUR OLYMPIC SPORTS PROGRAMS 
IF INTERESTED, CALL MEG AT 239-8103 
MOGADISHU, Somalia (AP)­The U.N. secretary-general wants to send up to 3,500 armed observers to help protect the emergency effort to feed Somalia, where the Red Cross says 11 of its workers were killed last week. 
Meanwhile, equipment prob­lems, leaking cooking oil con­tainers and a mass of storks on a runway Tuesday slowed the 
U.S. airlift in neighboring Kenya, where thousands of Somali refugees and Kenyans are in need of food. 
The United States, which has been delivering food to north­ern Kenya since Friday, plans to start airlifting food this week into Somalia. Germany began its own airlift Tuesday. 
The aid campaign has been difficult in a country where the drought sweeping southern Africa and civil war have com­bined to create chaos. 
At the United Nations Tues­day, Secretary-General Boutros­Boutros Ghali proposed sending up to 3,500 armed observers to help protect and coordinate the aid effort. The Security Council could vote on the request later this week. 
The observers would include a 500-member team already approved by the council. Boutros Ghali urged the 500 observers be sent "as soon as possible." 
Up to 2 million people are es­timated to be in imminent dan­ger of dying from starvation. A million people in Kenya ­Kenyans and Somali refugees ­are hungry. 
Since the overthrow of Somali 

Mideast ta1ks continue 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Pales­tinian negotiators are taking a close look at an Israeli proposal for limited self-rule on the West Bank and in Gaza, but they haven't dropped their more ambitious goals. 
They also want to know if the slowdown Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has ordered in Jewish settlements in the terri­tories is permanent, chief Palestinian negotiator Haidar Abdul Shafi said Tuesday night. 
He said his side was ap­proaching the new round of talks at the State Department "with an open mind and heart." 
Israel's proposal calls for election of an administrative agency through which Pales­tinians would take charge of their day-to-day lives. "It is up to our counterparts to say if they want to pursue this road or any other way," Elyakim Rubinstein, the chief Israeli negotiator, said after the 2 1/2­hour session. 
It was the first meeting be­tween Israel and the Palestini­ans in three months. Since then, a new Israeli government has slowed down settlements, reversed the deportation of 11 suspected terrorists, announced the release of 800 prisoners and lifted some restrictions on life in the West Bank and in Gaza. 
Abdul Shafi said he hoped "there is a new mandate" in Israel. He said his side was "going to study" the new Israeli position papers but emphasized they would be considered against the backdrop the Palestinians' own plan. 
CARROT TOP 
Appearing: Saturday, August 29th and Sunday, August 30th 
. !. • . 1rt-. 
8 PM Washington Hall 

Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk (Satisfaction guaranteed or your money back!) 
As seen on: MTV, Evening at the Improv, Showtime Comedy Club Network Sponsored by Student Activities 
... _.. .....................................~-········----~-·
~ 


Wednesday, August 26, 1992 The Observer 

Saint Mary's students (left to right) Meggen Schmerge, Joan Grand Hersett, Sere Bolster, Kristin Welling, Meredith Braver, Nancy Chelius, end Beth Larimer discuss the role-playing of e parent­teacher conference for their Education 462 Classroom end Behavior Management course. 
-~--------~---~---------"'! 
page 9 

Prescti pt ion drug pti ces increasing.. study says 
FARGO, N.D. (AP) -The been on the market a long time price of prescription drugs has -not a new drug, an old drug increased nearly three times as -and see a 300 percent price much as the rate of inflation increase in a six-year period. over the last six years, accord-That in my judgment is price ing to a congressional study gouging," said Rep. Byron released Tuesday. Dorgan, D-N.D. 
The General Accounting Of-Dorgan and Rep. Fortney flee study focused on 29 com-Stark, who chairs the health mon medicines whose increas-subcommittee, requested the ing prices have prompted con-study by the GAO, Congress' sumer complaints to the watchdog agency. House's subcommittee on Officials with the companies health. that make Dilantin and other 
The prices of 19 of the drugs drugs defended their pricing increased by more than 100 practices. percent between 1985 and "Dilantin is still one of the 1991, the study showed. The lowest-price prescription drugs consumer price index for all in America," said Sandy Horner, prescription drugs increased by a spokeswoman for Warner 67 percent during the same Lambert. time, while the inflation rate The anti-coagulant Coumadin, was rising 26.2 percent. whose wholesale price rose 
The cost of medical care rose 218.2 percent, is made by 
56.3 percent during that time, DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical according to the report. Co., which is still conducting 
The price to the federal gov-research into extended uses for ernment for the anti-seizure the drug, said company drug Dilantin rose the most, go-_ spokesman Roger Morris. ing from $22.80 for 1,000 100 "Plus you can only fund re­mg capsules to $102.30, a search for experimental drugs 
348.7 percent increase. by using revenues from drugs 
"It is unjustifiable in my you have on the market," judgment to have a drug that's Morris said. " 
USC Trip $459 
Until August 31 
($544 regular price) 
Price includes: 
• 
4 nights at 4 star Waterfront Hilton on Huntington Beach. 

• 
All transportation 

• 
Game Ticket 

• 
Pep Rally 


Be a part of the official al NO student trip at this great price. Visit Anthony Travel, Inc. in LaFortune this week. 
239~ 7080 
l_ ANTHONY TRAVEL, INC. 
Open-door policy not affecting Biosphere 2 progress.. crew says 
ORACLE, Ariz. (AP) -Bio­sphere 2 opened its airlock doors Tuesday to take in protein powder and other supplies, but crew members said the opening -the third in 11 months ­doesn't detract from the sealed environmental experiment. 
The four men and four women shut inside the experi­mental enclosure for a planned 2-year stay have lost an aver­age 16 percent of their body weight since the glass dome was closed on Sept. 26. 
One of the eight, Roy Walford, said by phone that the protein powder would be used in tests on crew members to determine if supplements are needed in their low-calorie, home-grown diets. 
Also passed through the air­lock were such supplies as bot­tles, labels and cold-sore medi­cation. Items removed included water, soil, blood, urine and film. 
The 3-acre science venture and tourist attraction in the foothills north of Tucson has a farm, and sections that repli­cate ocean, savanna, rain forest and other ecosystems. 
The private, for-profit venture financed by Texas investor Ed Bass is intended to demonstrate that people can grow their own food and recycle air, water and wastes in a sealed environment. 
Some scientists criticized the project after one crew member left for emergency surgery when she sliced off a fingertip in a threshing accident in Octo­ber. She returned with a bag filled with plastic bags, maps, books, hydrochloric acid, com­puter parts and other supplies. 
University of Notre Dame Graduate Student Union 
Wednesday, August 26 Cookout for all graduate students and families Stepan Field 4:00p.m. , 8 p.m. food service 5 , 6:30 
Thursday, August 2 7 Tips for Lecturing ,Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 7 p.m. , 8:30 p.m. Running Discussions and Seminars 
,Center for Continuing Education Rooms 100, 104 i 8:30p.m. , 10 p.m. 
Assisting in Laboratories ,Center for Continuing Education Rooms 100, 104 8:30 p.m. , 10 p.m. 
Friday, August 28 Welcome Back Party for all graduate students and significant others , Alumni,Senior Club NO & 21 ID required 9:00 p.m. , 2:00 a.m. 
Viewpoint 
page 10 VVednesday,August26, 1992 

The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor .............••.•..... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor ...•.............. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .........••... Patrick Barth Photo Editor .......... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director ...............•..•.. Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ..Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor. Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, 
Plain talker Perot never had a grasp of the issues 
One early Saturday morning use that money to send people 
I asked. "Could you clarify that last spring, after a night out in to Harvard. Of course, they'd "Oh, again and again and please?" I asked. Georgetown, I entered a Little need a new dorm or two. Hell, again," he replied. Perot went on to say, "It's an Tavern -the East Coast version I'd even pay for one -doesn't I tried to ask a follow-up ethical and moral character of White Castle. Two seats to my have to have my name on it. question, but to no avail. issue, and so on and so forth. right munching on a small bag Then we'd reduce our prison Perot continued, "Now, its like You follow me? The point is, it's of double burgers sat Ross population." welfare reform. You have a like belly buttons. You have Perot. When I asked him to pass "But Mr. Perot," I interrupted, baby, right? Now, you get a innies and outties. If a Pepsi the yellow plastic mustard "let's get back to that ethical check. But if you are an unwe.d commercial shows all outties, container, he commented on my and moral character issue. mother not like Murphy Brown, but you have an innie, you have Notre Dame shirt. Notre Dame prides itself on see? I personally like the show. low self esteem. Now I realize 
teaching values." But you have another baby, you that Notre Dame is mostly a 
"Now, I've been to Notre "Fine. That's all right. See? don't get any more checks. Coke campus ... " 
Capitol Comments 

Dame, see?" he began. "Now, I Now, we have plenty of ideas in These people who have four or "I beg your pardon,"
Gary J. Caruso 

saw the stadium. the Jesus this country, many from five babies need to be interrupted again. referee on that building, and so Harvard. Did I tell you that W6 productive." Perot kept on, "You have to get
''I'm not sure." 
on and so forth. You follow pay more for a prisoner ... " ''I'd say that was productive," I their attention. It's like a lazy
"Fine. Now, that's all right. You 
me?" " ... than we do for a Harvard quipped. dog watching a meatball roll
see, we have all these ideas 
"Yes sir," I replied. student," we both said in across the floor. I mean, first
tossed around like a fruit salad 
He continued, "See, you've unison. "Now, you're being a smarty off, I see this as a state and
but nobody executes them. If 
done a fine job rebuilding that I continued, "You told me that pants, see? Reminds me of the local issue, and we have to
we could get gays -and I still 
football program. You follow already, Mr. Perot." NAACP who misunderstood my build character and an
think people don't understand 
me?" comment about 'you people.' infrastructure."
what I said on 20120 -if we 
"I think so." "Right. See? Well, so on and so After all, it was their people
could get gays, then I'd execute 
"Fine, but I'm afraid your forth. It's like putting another who take the brunt of things. It "Is it like putting another patch
them." 
coach used to be from patch on an old tire," Perot certainly wasn't my people. on an old tire?" I asked, not
"Sir, I'm confused. You'd 
Arkansas, so he'll probably vote continued. "You follow me?" They're all in Dallas." 
execute the gays or the ideas?" 
for Clinton. It's like putting another patch on an old tire." I answered, "But I think he's a Republican, sir." 
Perot ignored me and said, "Now, that football program brings in the money, which builds the buildings, and keeps Notre Dame's public image before the American public. It's like I keep saying about our country. Number one, rebuild the infrastructure. Quit putting patches on old tires. Number two, create jobs and put people back to work. You follow me?" 
"I think I lost you there, sir," I replied. 
"See, we need to build ethical and moral character in our children. Right? Now, if Notre Dame did that, they could be as good as Harvard, see? Now, did you know that we spend more money on jails and supporting a prisoner than we do paying for a Harvard student? We could 
OOONESBURY 
5Ht'5HI5 NI!Fe~ 5H& CAN'T /38 
HALFH/'3 AGE7' 


I OON'T CAF&! 7Ht WOMAN /3R01<8UP 
A 2'3-YCA!<. MARRJAG8.' 
fAJ800N'T KNOIAJ THAT, MARIWU. 5HtM/6HT NOTHAVt 8£3tN IN­VOL-VW.' 
I 
having a clue what his point now was. "Right. You DO follow me," he happily answered. 
"Well sir, my burger's getting cold," I said as I passed the mustard back to him. ''I'm glad we had this in-depth discussion. Good luck to you." 
"Right. Fine, and so on and so forth," he replied as I turned away from him. 
It was at that moment that I renewed my faith in the Democratic Party. But I also made a vow to stop hanging out in these places after the bars close. 
Gary J. Caruso is a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and now works in Washington, 
D.C. as a desktop publishing specialist for the United States House of Representatives. His column appears every other Wednesday. 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
fK)()) AR&­7H81<1/J5 TAKING IF 
I 
JU5TFIN8. ON&OFTH/3M U5W70 OATE3H8R.. 
\ 

'It you choose not to decide, you still have made a choice.' 
Rush 

You and/, while we can, submit: QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 
Accent 
Wednesd~y.August 26, 1992 
Jahnelle Harrigan 
Things, life, whatnot 
A place for 
fun in your 
life? 

I 
t's big. It's a marathon walker's 
dream. It's the Mall of America, and 
could very possibly be the most 
excessive and overwhelming place in 
the United States. 
Located in the Minneapolis suburb of 
Bloomington, the largest mall in the 
country officially opened its doors on August 11, 
and much has been done to put the busy 
shopper at ease. 
New highway interchanges make getting there 
a piece of cake. Parking is a breeze. Beepers 
can be rented for groups who might split up 
while shopping and need to find each other, and 
with the one millionth shopper entering the mall 
sometime last week. finding someone could 
prove to be a little difficult. 
Annoying television commercials and 
billboards promoting the mall scream "There's a 
place for fun in your life" And being a 
Minnesota native, I felt I couldn't possibly end 
my summer without seeing what the fun is all 
about at what shoppers are calling the 
"Megamall." 
And it definitely is mega. Mega shops, mega 
parking ramps and mega entertainment. 
It's capitalism at its best. And it's enough to 
make you want to hurl. 
Approximately 400 stores help to fill this 4.2 
million square foot structure, and it is estimated 
that it would take seven hours to spend just one 
minute in each store. 
The four anchor department stores: 
Bloomingdales, Macy's, Nordstrom's and Sears, 
are so distant from each other that it is 
absolutely impossible to see all the way down to 
the other end of the hallway. 
In fact, I was there for five hours and never 
saw two entire wings of the mall with 
approximately 200 stores. 
But it's not just stores. 
The center of the mall is Camp Snoopy, a 
seven acre amusement park complete with a 
rollercoaster, water flume ride, flying trapeze, 
carousel and bumper cars. 
A large area is set aside for the Lego 
Imagination Center where kids of all ages can 
b_uild huge lego structures of all shapes and 
Sizes. Fun for the whole family, right? 
And it doesn't stop there. 
Almost an entire wing of the mall is devoted to 
Oshman 's SuperSports USA, a sporting goods 
store with the slogan "Try before you buy." Once 
again, shopping is made easy as an ice rink, 
batting cage, golfing range, boxing gym and ski 
slope with a moving deck that simulates ski 
conditions are available to "try out" 
merchandise. 
What more could you want? 
How about nine nightclubs, more than 60 
places to eat, a 14-screen movie theater and an 
18-hole miniature golf course on a two-level 
simulated mountain? Not bad, eh? 
The Mall of America has all the potential to be 
the place for fun in your life. But it's almost too 
much fun. It's almost enough to make you 
uncomfortable-the opposite of its goal. 
Staring at probably the biggest inflated 
Snoopy in the world as a rollercoaster whizzes 
past your head and Bloomingdales employees 
push you to establish credit, you can't help but 
feel guilty. 
We have a lot. We have more than most 
people in the world. And the Mall of America 
takes all that and magnifies it by about one 
million percent. 
There's no doubt it's fun. There's enough in 
one building to keep you busy for at least a year. 
It's the American dream. It's what our country is 
all about, right? 
But it's unnecessary. Hopefully America will 
realize it before we've gone too far. 
Jahnelle Harrigan is Accent editor ofThe 
Observer. Her columns appear every third 
Wednesday in Accent. 
L Photo Courtesy of R. Wiliam Cash arry Herr, chief archaeologist of Cash's group, and Dorothy Irvin, ethnographer, examine the early Arabicgraffiti on the wall of a cave Irvin discovered. 
Digging up the past 
Saint Mary's faculty member spends summer excavating in the Middle East 
By MARA DIVIS 

Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
While many members of the college community spent their summers searching for sun, fun, and relaxation, one member of the Saint Mary's faculty searched for MidEastern archaeological remains as he supervised a stu­dent excavation in Amaan, Jordan. 
R. William Cash, the director of institutional research at Saint Mary's, returned to Jordan for the second time in three years to manage an excavation run by Andrews University. He said that he first traveled with a group from Andrews University in 1989, when he was a part-time employee in their archaeological excavations department. 
"It was part of my responsibility to go and help," he said. "This year the administration at Andrews University asked if I'd like to administer their facilities." 
Cash, who is not an archaeolo­gist, served as a manager and "morale booster" for the group of American and Canadian students, who lived at a junior college run by the United Nations. 
Among Cash's duties this summer were providing the stu­dents with food and other neces­sities, he said. 
"I found myself running a lot of errands," he said. 
He added that he found his job of boosting morale to be key in keeping the students active and content in their work. 
"The things important for morale were plenty of toilet pa­per, plenty of good food, sleep, and mail or news from home," he said. 
He emphasized that news from home was most important to the students, and that English­speaking newspapers were made readily available to the students. 
"The Jordan Times, an English newspaper, was one that we read regularly," he said. 
Aside from making contact with the United States, the group had several major projects, which included a team survey of Umeiri, a city-like complex surrounded by plains. 
"The central Highlands are kind of hilly," he said. "It's mostly plains and desert below the edge, an area known as Ammanite City." 
Among some of the group's highlights this summer was the discovery of tombs that hadn't been discovered or plundered, he said. 
sory, Cash said that he and the group never felt in any danger. Because Jordan, a nation com­prised of approximately 60 per­cent Palestinians, was one nation reluctant to support the Allied movement in the Persian Gulf conflict of 1990, the State de­partment was particularly wary of allowing visitors to visit. 
Regardless of these strained international relations, Cash said that the new United States Embassy in Amaan is extrava­gant. 
"The Jordanians were flattered that we'd built an embassy of that size," he said. "It's palatial-ostentatious." 
Cash said that the native people 
-
are friendly and that even shopkeepers on the streets treated the students cordially. 
-----------"The Jordanian "We found several 'We found SeVeral People are very
complete Bronze friendly." he said. "It Age jars, .. he said. complete Bronze was not unusual to "It was the find of . be invited to the summer." Age Jars. It was shopkeepers homes 
Another of the th f d f th for coffee or tea 
team's highlights e In ° e three or four times. 
was the continual SUmmer.' "They have discovery of a road abilities to separate that had led to a -R. William actions of major regional city C h government from ac-of Biblical times, aS tions of individual Cash said. He said people." 
that the group made----------­this discovery near Tel J alul, Cash added that the program another digging site located in offered the students the dual the middle of a major plain. benefits of participation in an ar­
chaeological project, and the op­
"They just did a couple of portunity to become immersed in probes and have already found a a different culture. road to the city, six to twelve "It was something I wanted to inches below the road," he said. do, and I'm glad I had the 
Despite a United States State chance," he said. "I can't wait to Department-issued travel advi-get back." 
I I....., I I I 
I I I I 
I' had two runners thrown out at chance, giving him 28 saves this 
I 
the plate in extra innings and, year.
ATLANTA (AP) -Montreal

I 
even with Andujar Cedeno
I stopped Tom Glavine's 13-game 
I hitting for the cycle, lost to St. Pirates 10, Dodgers 3 
winning streak and foiled his 

I Louis 5-3 in the 13th. LOS ANGELES -Andy Van
bid to become baseball's first 

Slyke homered and drove in
20-game winner as the Expos

r 
' Cedeno, recalled from Triple-A four runs, and the Pittsburgh
beat the Atlanta Braves 6-0

I 
Tucson earlier in the day, Pirates dealt Ramon Martinez
I Tuesday night. 
became the first major leaguer his earliest knockout of theI Glavine (19-4) allowed five runs 
I --to hit for the cycle this season. season, beating Los Angeles.
three earned and seven 

I He doubled in the 11th to The East-leading Pirates
hits in 4 2-3 innings, and

I complete the feat, but then became the third became the
dropped to 3-11 lifetime against 

I 
became the second runner in third NL franchise to win 2,000the Expos. 
I 
two innings to be thrown out at games since divishm play began 
Chris Nabholz (9-9) allowed 

home by left fielder Bernard in 1969. Cincinnati has 2,058
seven hits in shutout 7 1-3

I' Gilkey. victories and the Dodgers have
innings as Montreal for the 

Andres Galarraga singled home 2,052.
fourth time in five games. 

I the go-ahead run in the 13th off Van Slyke hit his 11th homer, a 
' 
Atlanta has lost four of five. The Joe Boever (3-6). Cris Carpenter two-run shot, and also doubledBraves lead in the NL West was
' 
( 4-4) was the winner and Lee and singled. The Pirates got 13
cut to 4 112 games over Smith got his 33rd save. hits-, including three by Alex

Cincinnati, which beat 
Cole.
Philadelphia 7-1. 
Padres 7, Cubs 4 

SAN DIEGO -Benito Santiago Danny Cox (3-2) pitched 3 2-3
Reds 7, Phillies 1 

hit two home runs and Fred scoreless innings and won hisCINCINNATI -Tim Belcher McGriff hit his league-leading first decision for the Pirates.
pitched eight shutout innings 29th homer as the San Diego Martinez (8-11) was chasedbefore fading in the ninth, and Padres stopped Chicago's five­before he could retire a batterBarry Larkin and Joe Oliver game winning streak. in the third inning. 

homered. 

Santiago's two-run shot in theLarkin hit a two-run homer in 
seventh inning came against Mets 2, Giants 1 
the first inning and Oliver hit a Ken Patterson (2-3) and put the SAN FRANCISCO -Bobbythree-run homer in the fifth off Padres ahead 5-4. Santiago hit Bonilla hit his fifth home run inGreg Mathews (0-3) as the Reds his ninth homer of the season in six games and the New York

won their third straight. The 

the eighth. It was the third two­Mets beat San Francisco. 
Phillies have lost their last five. 

homer game of his career. Bonilla hit his 17th homer of
Belcher (11-12) gave up just 

McGriff's check-swing double the season in the fourth inning.
four singles and four walks. He drove home a run in the first The solo shot off Trevor Wilson 

had struggled lately, losing 

inning. He led off the fourth (8-13) was the last run of thethree of his last four starts. 
inning with a home run that game. made it 3-0. Sid Fernandez (11-9) pitched
Cardinals 5, Astros 3 

Mike Maddux (1-1) got the seven innings and John FrancoHOUSTON-In their first game 
victory and Randy Myers worked the ninth for his 15th
back at the Astrodome after a converted his 15th straight save

month-long road trip, Houston save. 
Classifieds 
page 12 The Observer Wednesday, August 26,1992 
Glavine halted in bid for for 20th win; Astros lose in return to the Dome 
Unknown leads U.S. amateur championship after the first day of qualifying in Ohio 
DUBLIN, Ohio (AP) -Doug Trey Maples of Golden, Colo., Hauenstein, a printer from and David Duval of Ponte Aurora, Ohio, playing in his Vedra, Fla., who finished 12th first national tournament, shot in a PGA Tour event in Atlanta a 6-under-par 66 to take a earlier this year after leading one-stroke lead Tuesday after through three rounds. White, the first of two days of Maples and Duval all played qualifying in the 92nd U.S. the Country Club course. Amateur Championship. Two-time defending junior 
Hauenstein, 31, had five national amateur champion birdies in a seven-hole span Tiger Woods of Cypress, Calif., on the back nine of The wilted on the back nine to Country Club at Muirfield shoot a 78. Village, the sister course of Woods was 1-under through the more famous Muirfield 11 holes at the Golf Club, then Village Golf Club. had a quadruple-bogey on the 
The latter course is the site par-3 12th hole. He cleared of the annual Memorial the lake with his approach on Tournament and the host the 150-yard hole, but course for match play in the chipped back across the green six-day event. and into the lake. After taking 
A shot back at 67 on the a drop, he chipped back to the 6,779-yard, par-72 Country green and three-putted. Club course was New York The 16-year-old Woods, who City stockbroker George became the youngest person Zahringer. ever to play in a PGA Tour 
Jay Davis of the University of event at the Los Angeles Open Louisville shot a 68 at the this spring, is the youngest 7,006-yard, par-72 Golf Club, member of the 312-player while former NCAA champion field. and reigning U.S. Public Links champion Warren Schutte and Mitch Voges, who won last University of Florida junior year's tournament at The Brian Gay each had 68s on the Honors Course in Ooltewah, Country Club course. Tenn., shot a 73 at the 
Three of the 30 subpar Country Club. scores came at the Golf Club. Manny Zerman, runnerup 
Jay Sigel, the last player to the last two years in the ama­win back-to-back U.S. teur, was four shots back after Amateur titles (1982-83), had a 70 at the Country Club. a 3-under 69 at the Golf Club. Reigning senior amateur He was joined at 69 by David champion Bill Bosshard of White of Little Rock, Ark., Copley, Ohio, shot an 89. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Will pay big bucks for ND -MICH TOP TEN UNDERC QUOTES 
BED AND BREAKFAST. PRIVATE G.A. tix. Call Joe@ 287-4561. SUMMER 1992
Notices WANTED I TICKETS
ENTRANCE. 291-7845. 1. MAJOR FULL BODY HEEB 
I NEED 3 MICHIGAN GA'S 2. FOB: FULL BODY HEEB For more information and BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY DESPERATELY 3. HEY BABES PLEASE HELP: 
My dad would like to see one 219-291-7153 WILL PAY 4. WILL YOUR HUSBAND BE LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP NEEDS 
Michigan game before I graduate assistance regarding the and need tickets. CALL MIKE AT X 2209 AITENDING THIS EVENING? 
PART-TIME HELP. CLOSE TO 
CAMPUS. CALL CHAD AT 282­
investigation of financing, business Share 2-BR Home with Male Grad Call Mike 283-1161 5. ANYONE FOR A BODY SHOT? 
3727 FOR MORE INFO. 
opportunities and work-at-home Student. $260 plus phone. Jeff WANT TO MAKE A BUCK? 6. I WON'T BE IGNORED DAN! opportunities, THE OBSERVER 288-3878 Leave a message. I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS! 7. EVERYONE LOOK FOR BUFO!
I NEED ND FOOTBALL urges its readers to contact the TICKETS.272-6306 WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET 8. BEEFED ROSE PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA NOW HIRING 
Full-time and Part-time Drivers and 
Better Business Bureau of UNIQUE B & B COUNTRY BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO 9. WOOBIE FEST '92 
Inside Help. Flexible Schedules. 
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., SEITING. MINUTES FROM ND AT x3587. 10. I'M MYSTIFIED
Call 27H177 today for more 
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-NEAR GRANGER. BEDROOMS Please Help Please Help 
information or apply in person at 
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277-W/SHARED BATH. CALL 616-663-My father would greatly appreciate HAVE 4 BYU, 2 BC, 2 PS. TO ALL MY FRIENDS,
54533 Terrace Lane (next to 
9121 or800-439-5313. 8308. NEED 2-4 MICH. I'LL MISS YOU FROM TOLEDO. 
any GAs to any games. And yes, 800-359-6864 CHRIS OR ED B. LOVE, ELIZABETH.
Subway) off SR 23 across from the 
he knows that the tickets are going ·sENIORs• 
new super Video Watch. Drivers at high prices. Mike at x1161need car, license and insurance. 
FOR SALE $$$$ 
CHISEL.CHISEL.CHISEL NORTHWESTERN ROADTRIP NEED 3 MICH TIX! CALL KIRSTIN 
MOTHER'S HELPER TO CARE 
SEPT 4-5 X4281
FOR OUR 3-YEAR-OLD. MUST BE 1987 V-4 Taurus, loaded, great 
includes: We need a BASS player. 
FRIENDLY, WITH EXPERIENCE shape. 1-owner. Call291-8999. 
BUS NEED 1 STUD. MICH. TIC. CALL
AND OWN CAR. PART TIME 
TICKET SEAN 283-1303. Wanna stick it to the man? 
I WILL BUY YOUR TICKET Learn how to play, record, and sell DAYS, SOME EVENINGS. 232­
APPLICATION$$ SECOND CITY TICKET your own product without 2201. 
283-1161 Michael3 MEN'S 10-SPEED BIKES. GOOD
-HOTEL DOWNTOWN CONDITION. PERSONAL THEIR help! $65 
FOR RENT 
281'-5235 & LEAVE MESSAGE IF CALL: 289-4278 TODAY!!!
NECESSARY. WILL RETURN FENCING CLUB: Meets 6:30-8:00, Purchase@ LaFortune info desk WANTED: 2 TIX NO-MICH. WILL 
YOUR CALL Fencing Gym, JACC. Beginners
Nice 2-bedroom apartment by PAY. CALL 904-630-6346. I'LL To ALL students in last semester's 
welcome. First meeting September 
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!! Tippecanoe Place. $350. w/heat. PHIL 302: If you need any help or
CALL BACK ON MY WATS. 
1st. Equipment provided. $80 per 
609 W. Washington, 232-7861. just someone to talk to, I'm STILL 
CHUCK WHITE.
OAKHILL CONDO · 2 BRS, 2 semester. 
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday here for you in carrel #828 -T.H.
Baths, 1,170 sq. ft., fireplace, spiral Pandora's Books 808 Howard 2 Bed 'n Breakfast rooms. 1 mi. 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 2 
staircase to loWden. 1 car garage. Steve is a God
3 blks. from campus 233-2342 from campus -$75 a night, no MICHIGAN GA'S. WILL OFFER Molly, Rebecca, and Mary B. are
Walk to ND. $77,500. Call Coldwell Audrey Gomez 
smoking or drinking. Excellent the best roomies in Farley 454! 
FIRST BORN CHILD. CALL LISA
Banker, 277-8000 or Ruth Ann THE ALEXANDER TECHNIQUE IS neighborhood. 272-0128. (COLLECT} AT (509) 534-4227. 
Smith 288-8875. TEC TEC 
AVAILABLE FOR CREDIT, see 2 night stays preferred .. HI SUMMIES!!!!! 
TEENS ENCOUNTER CHRIST IN p.43,all student levels,no overload. SELLING 4 TIX TO SOUTH BEND AREA ARE VERY Information call ex6211/288-4919. School Year '92-'93. Two bedrooms, NORTHWESTERN GAME -FACE
LAMPS, CHAIRS, SOFAS, $5-35. HAPPY TO WELCOME NOTRE 
large outdoors. Home close to ANDY---­
VALUE. CONTACT: CATHIE 312­
234-8969 OR PLEASE LV. MSG. DAME/ST. MARY'S STUDENTS campus. Clean, quiet neighborhood. 
876-7729. 

WHO WISH TO JOIN US HERE. 
Lost and Found 
Use of kitchen and laundry facilities. I'VE GOT GAS
Full size futon (frame and cushion} CALL 277-2535.
A HOME away from HOME. 
$$ I Need MICH TIXII $$ WANTED: Mature goal-oriented, 
Lost: Blue ND ID Holder please please please please 
1 0-speed woman bike $$$MICHIGAN$$$
Fri NighV Linebacker graduate & transfer students need Call Dennis @ 283-1577 KATHY, CRICKY, CHRISTINA
I WILL PAY LARGE SUMS apply. Preferably political science, For details, call 271-8418 OF$$$ FOR GA's &
Please call Julie 288-5196 music, and art majors and athletes. ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY LOOKING FORWARD TO A
STUDENT MICHIGAN TIX
Only women who love children and GREAT YEAR, YOU'LL HAVE TO
HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE
RENT A 19" COLOR TV OR VCR, PLEASE, PLEASE HELP ME 
LOST: A GOLD BRACELET, are willing to spend their spare time WORK HARD TO TOP MY LAST
AT 618-439-3338.
TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE $ $ $ CALL x 2 4 5 4 $ $ $ 
teaching while living in the home. ROOMMATE, HAVE A GREAT 
SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR, 
LINKED CHAIN, WITH THE NAME $200/month. DAY!!!
TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$ 
TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE Hey Niff 
NICOLE ON THE TOP AND A Ex-California teacher and coach, 35 PEGGY
$$$1 DEPERATELY N E E DSEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY HEART CHARM AITACHED. IF years experience. I travel 6 G. A. 's FOR MICHIGAN$$$
FREE. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, 000 THE COPY SHOP 000FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT NIKI periodically. 232-2794, ask for Paul. 
please, please, please, please 
272-5959 LaFortune Student Center VOELZ AT 244 KNOIT, PHONE CALL X2454 Now open even LATER!!!
4945. NICE B & B ACCOMMODATIONS STAINMASTER RUG, 7 FT. SQ. Mon-Thur 7:30am-MidnightAVAILABLE FOR PURDUE, HELP A SENIOR I Need 4-5 GEN
ROSE W/GRAY BORDER. LIKE Fri 7:30am-7:00pm
DON'T WORRY... I found your gold STANFORD, BYU & BOSTON or STD tkt for U MICH. Last Hope 
NEW. $150. 287-9875. Sat Noon-6:00pm
necklace near the library on 8/20. COLLEGE. NEAR ND. forfamilyl Tim @289-5196 Sun Noon-MidnightPlease call to id 288-7976 CALL 271-0989. 


Wednesday, August 26,1992 The Observer page 13 
Stanford and Texas A&M play collegiate opener 
ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) -Even Aggies' defense has Walsh "I think the system of defense be an interesting matchup." mark is at quarterback. Jeff without its best pass rusher, concerned. Last year, A&M had that A&M is using is the best Four starters return to the Granger, who spent the spring Texas A&M's defense gives the nation's No. 1 defense, al­one for their athletes and could line -Brian Cassidy, Glen playing baseball for the Aggies Stanford coach Bill Walsh lowing just 222.4 yards per very well be the best in foot­Cavanaugh, Chris Dalman and and the summer pitching for plenty to worry about when the game. ball," he said. "They have a way Steve Hoyem. the U.S. Olympic team before Aggies and Cardinal get an to get to the passer, they can That kind of experience is being cut, won the starting job early start on the season "They have extreme quick­blitz freely, they have the something the Aggies don't after deciding to give up Wednesday night in the Pigskin ness, speed and they play very, defensive backs who can cover." have. Although they return 16 football after the Cotton Bowl. Classic. very disciplined football," Walsh starters, A&M is young. The redshirt sophomore threw 
On Tuesday, ailing outside said. "I don't think an individual Trying to stop the blitz will be just 48 passes, for 395 yards linebacker Marcus Buckley will make any great difference Stanford's formidable offensive "You look at 18 senior starters and five touchdowns, last participated in a light workout as far as Stanford is concerned. line, which last season gained and four junior starters, season while subbing for the for the first time in more than a "We hope he recovers because celebrity as the NCAA's biggest. compared to -without Marcus injured Bucky Richardson. week. The senior has been he is a great football player. In It averaged 6-foot-7 and more -one senior starter on defense bothered by swollen ankle and the meantime, we're going to than 300 pounds. and two on offense," Slocum "Right now I don't feel like I'm knee joints, a problem doctors see a squad that is just much said. "There's a tremendous in perfect working order," were still trying to diagnose. faster than we are as a team." "We have big athletes on the disparity in the experience Granger said. ''I'm in good 
offensive line and they're ex­factor and that concerns me in enough mental shape to exe­
"If he plays, it will be a situa­Simply put, Walsh thinks No. perienced," Walsh said. an opening ball game. cute on offense." tion-type thing," Texas A&M 17 Stanford, with a schedule "They've lost about 15 or 20 Starting for Stanford will be coach R.C. Slocum said. "I that includes Notre Dame and pounds per man since we've "There's a number of guys I've junior Steve Stenstrom, who cannot rule out the possibility Washington, won't face a established a new style of foot­never seen in a game that will passed for 1,683 yards and 15 that he could play. He will not tougher defense this season ball. It remains to be seen if be starting in the opening touchdowns after starting last be a major factor in the game." than that of the seventh-ranked we're quick enough to stay with series." season as the Cardinal's No. 3 
With or without Buckley, the Aggies. the A&M defensive front. That'll Texas A&M's biggest question quarterback. 
Tennessee football coach Majors has heart surgery 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) -"I have not pressed that issue Iowa State and Pittsburgh. could do to contribute when­hospitalized after fainting Tennessee coach Johnny Majors and won't do so for several Sixteen of his 24 teams played ever he feels comfortable doing spells. He's expected to be underwent successful heart days," Dickey said. "Coach in bowl games. that. That doesn't include ready for the Sept. 5 opener bypass surgery on Tuesday, less Majors himself and his doctors Majors underwent angioplasty jumping up and down on the against Southwestern than two weeks before the need to address that and then in May after becoming ill while practice field or swinging from Louisiana. Volunteers open the college we'll talk to the physicians and traveling through Memphis to a the tower." "We have already dealt with a football season. see where we are." meeting in Texas. Tennessee players said they lot of tragedy this season," se­
The 57 -year-old Majors, en­A news conference with Since then he had been on a feel like they've been met with nior receiver J.J. McCleskey tering his 15th season as coach Majors' doctors was scheduled regimen designed to strengthen one misfortune after another said. "We are just going to have at his alma mater, came later Tuesday. his heart and had been feeling even before the season starts. to be hard-nosed about it. through the 3 1/2-hour opera­Offensive coordinator Phillip good, Dickey said. But after a "It seems like every time we "We are going to have to put it tion well. "It appears to be a Fulmer will take over for checkup Monday, doctors try to get up and come together, aside for a minute and continue success so far," said Lisa Majors, with defensive coordi­decided to proceed with the something else is pushing us to practice hard because our McNeal, a spokeswoman for the nator Larry Marmie, the former surgery. farther apart," sophomore season is on us. I know that's University of Tennessee Medical Arizona State coach, helping to Dickey said there is plenty for running back Aaron Hayden what Coach Majors would want Center. "take up the slack," Dickey said. Majors to do when he feels said. us to do." 
His condition was considered Majors is beginning his 25th ready. "John does not neces­Less than a month ago, 44-Defensive tackle Jeff Tullis, a normal for the type of surgery, year as a head coach. He has an sarily have to occupy a physical year-old trainer Tim Kerin died senior, said the team "will keep and athletic director Doug overall record of 168-102-10, position as much as mentally of a heart aneurism. On a positive attitude. We are just Dickey said it was unclear when including a 111-59-8 mark at react to things," Dickey said. Monday, Vols' longtime broad­going to have to take it day by Majors would be back coaching. Tennessee. He also coached at "There are lots of things he caster John Ward, 63, was day and go with the flow." 
!•••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
THE HAMMES Welcome Back 
! 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Students, Faculty & Staflr •
• ..on tne campus.. I J • OPEN MONDAY-SATURDAY 9-5 •
•+ "STICK WITH THE ONE YOU KNOW" •+ 
+ • 
• I• • 
• ,.:.;;<'\h(,;!; • 
• SCOTCH SCOTCH SCOTCH • REMOVABLE WALLSAVER POSTER GLUE STICK MOUNTING SQUARES TAPE •
• 
II • 
.79 1.79 2/.79 • 
• * SPECIAL HOURS: TUES 8/25 9-6, WEDS 8/26 9-7, THURS 8/27 9-6. • 
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, August 26,1992 
A number of rules changes to help image made at NHL league meetings 
ST. PETERSBURG BEACH, Fla. (AP) -Players instigating fights will be ejected from NHL games next season under a rule change passed Tuesday that is designed to curb violence on the ice. 
But while the move by the league's board of governors in­creased the penalty for starting altercations, it stopped short of the total ban on fighting sought by some officials who are con­cerned about the NHL's image. 
Acting league president Gil Stein described the discussion about the instigation rule as "rollicking, but very high level." 
"And as we had hoped, and expected, out of that debate came a concern and focus that the fans' belief was very, very strong that truly spontaneous fighting isn't the problem in the game," he said. "That it's the tactic of fighting, sending a person out to start a fight. That's what we really want to eliminate." 
Several other rules changes also were adopted during a day-long meeting, and the board voted to continue to study the feasibility of NHL players participating in the 1994 Winter Olympics. 
"We've got the green light to continue looking," Stein said. "Hopefully by the December meeting we'll have a good read on it." 
Stein said he plans to meet with officials of Hockey Canada and USA Hockey to discuss the best way of pursuing the Dream Team concept. 

Rule changes approved by the governors included making it optional for players to wear helmets -currently all players turning pro after June 1979 must wear them. They also added penalties for grabbing an opponent's stick as a defensive tactic and intentionally diving to try to draw a penalty on an opposing player. 
The governers also restored 4-on-4 play when coincidental penalties are called during full­strength situations and changed the definition of high-sticking to hitting above the waist instead of above the shoulder. 
Stein said the latter is a "major, major step toward get­ting the stick out of the game for purposes other than playing hockey." 
The acting president asked subcommittees on each side of the fighting debate to prepare position papers that state their cases. 
The anti-fighting paper pre­sented to the governors argued that not increasing the penalty for fisticuffs would hinder the NHL's chances of securing a network television contract that could help ensure economic growth of the league. 
The pro-fighting forces coun­tered that a ban on fighting would promote an increase in illegal stickwork which would be far more dangerous than players venting frustration through fighting. 
"The issue comes down to what kind of confrontation is desirable," the pro-fighting paper contends. "Hockey play­ers carry weapons. Is the player who is frustrated by ille­gal tactics to respond with an accepted, safe and natural re­lease of emotions through fisticuffs or is he to resort to stickwork." 
The paper also contends that it is a "common misconception" that the league hasn't been able to get a network TV deal because the sport is too violent and that attendance at games (the NHL played to 92 percent capacity last season) indicates that fans "like the game as it 
is." 

Thirteen votes, a simple ma­jority of the 24 clubs, are re­quired to change a rule. 
"There wasn't a vote. There was a general consensus," in favor of the instigation rule, Stein said. 
Earlier, Stein announced that the board had empowered him to ensure that players who are suspended without pay are in­deed not paid by their clubs. 
Teams will be required to send the money a suspended player would have earned to the league office, and those clubs found to be paying sus­pended players will be subject to a fine, Stein said. 
In other business, Brian O'Neill resigned as NHL execu­tive vice president after 26 years. 
Little League series continues 
WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. (AP) ­The Dominican Republic and the Philippines wrapped up spots in the Little League World Series semifinals, but in the American bracket, it's still any­body's game. 
"In this format, I don't really see a front-runner," Long Beach, Calif., coach Jeff Burroughs said after his team beat Hamilton Square, N.J., 6-4 Tuesday. 
Long Beach is the only un­beaten American team, yet an appearance in the semifinals is not a done deal. Depending on how games go today, there could be a three-way tie for two berths in the American championship game. 
If Long Beach beats Lake Charles, La., tonight, there still could be a three-way tie for the lone remaining berth. 
Three-way ties will be decided by runs allowed per inning. Going into play today, Long Beach had the second highest ratio. Only South Holland, Ill.'s is higher. 
"With a break here or a break there, we have a remote chance of staying in this thing," said South Holland manager David Beezhold, whose team is 0-2 entering a game today with Hamilton Square. 
This year is the first under a new format. Teams play three round-robin games and the top two qualify for the semifinals, to be played Thursday. The championship game is set for Saturday afternoon. 
In the international bracket, the semifinal pairing is set. 

Even so, the Dominican Republic and the Philippines will play what amounts to an exhibition game today. 
Valleyfield, Quebec, and Ka1serslautern, Germany, will play what amounts to a consolation game. The European team lost big to both semifinalists -and conceded to the Latin American champions after the score reached 24-0 through four innings Tuesday. 

Valleyfield battled Zamboanga City, Philippines, before falling 2-0 Tuesday night. Jerwin Sagun ended the Canadian dreams with a two-out, two-run double in the bottom of the fifth. 
"They probably took our game as 'in the bag,"' Canadian coach Paul Deschamps said, believing the Far East team had overlooked it. 
Lake Charles defeated South Holland 3-2 in eight innings Tuesday afternoon when Chris Deggans homered. 
""'='. 
~ 

1~ MONDRY I WEDNESDAY 
I 12:15-12:45 Beg step Reroblcs Room 219 2 4:00-5:00 High Intensity Gym I 3 4:20-5:20 step Reroblcs Gym 2 4 5:15-6:15 Combo Reroblcs Gym I 5 5:20-6:20 High Intensity Room 301 6 6:45-7:45 Watr.r Reroblts Pool 7 9:00-10:00 Combo Reroblcs Room 301 
TUESDAY I THURSDAY 
B 12:15-12:45 Water Reroblcs Pool 
9 4:00-5:00 High Intensity Gym I 10 4:15-5:15 Step Reroblcs Gym 2 II 4:00-5:00 Step Reroblcs Room219 12 5:20-6:20 Slep Aerobics Room 219 13 5:20-6:20 Stretcherclse Gym I 14 9:00-10:00 Combo/funk Room 301 
FRIDAY 
""'='. 
~ 


. .£ ~ 

' 
Rockne JRCC JRCC JRCC 
Rockne 
Rolfs 
Rockne 
Rolls JRCC JRCC Rockne 
Rockne 
JRCC Rockne 

15  4:00-5:00  Combo Aerobics  Gym  I  Jft([  
SUNDRY  
16 9:00-10:00  Combo Aerobics  Room 301  Rockne  

All classes are co-ed. Men are encouraged to portlclpate. 
The cost for classes meeting 2 days per week Is SIS a semester. The cost for classes meeting I day per week IsS I 0 a semester. The cost for 112 Hour classes Is Sl 0 a semester. Clesses begin September 2nd 
Michigan denies that three basketball players, including two of Fab Five, took illegal payments 
DETROIT (AP) -University of Michigan coaches don't believe three basketball players, including two of last year's "Fab Five" freshmen, broke NCAA rules when they were paid to appear at a charity event. 
Sophomores-to-be Chris Webber and Jalen Rose and rising senior Eric Riley were paid to sign autographs and judge a slam-dunk contest in Holland last weekend, university spokesman Bruce Madej said Tuesday night. 
"The coaches feel that all NCAA rules were considered," Madej said. 
However, Jack Weidenbach, the university's athletic direc­tor, returned from vacation Tuesday and planned to look into the matter further on Wednesday, Madej said. 
"He will take a look at all the facts to make sure everything was followed properly," Madej said. It was unclear late Tuesday who Weidenbach planned to interview about the players' appearances, he said. 
There was no answer Tuesday night at NCAA offices in Shawnee Mission, Kan. 
Steve Mallonee, the NCAA's di­rector of legislative services, told The Grand Rapids Press in Tuesday's editions that "there really is no clear determina­tion" whether rules were bro­ken. 
Mallonee said it "is an inter­pretive matter." 
"Certainly our rules allow kids to be paid for summer employment," he said. "The question comes when the com­pensation is more than routine for the work performed, or if the payment is purely because the worker is an athlete." 
NCAA officials have not con­tacted the university, Madej said. 
All three players played key roles in Michigan's unprece­dented march to the NCAA championship game in April. The Wolverines, led by Webber, Rose and fellow freshmen starters Juwan Howard, Jimmy King and Ray Jackson, lost to Duke 71-51. 
Webber, Rose and Riley re­ceived $300 apiece for their participation in Saturday's 0-K Shootout charity basketball tournament, the newspaper reported. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Accent Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to ]ahnelle Harrigan by Friday, August 28. Contact Jahnelle at 239-5303 for more information. 
.................................................................................... 
WELCOME WEEKEND '92 
THURSDAY. AUGUST 27TH 
Encino Man SB White Sox vs. Beloit Brewers 7 pm, 9:30 pm, 12:00 am 7 pm--Coveleski Field Cushing Auditorium FREE FREE' Tickets at La Fortune .-& (,_-! 
Info Desk ~~­

FRIDAY. AUGUST 28TH 
Live at Stonehenge: Rockfest! 4 pm-12:00 am Fieldhouse Mall (Rain Location: Stepan Center) 
Bands scheduled to appear: The Porkchoppers Ryan's Suitcase Victoria's Real Secret XYZ Affair Dysfunktion Access Denied Katharsis 
Free snow cones, sodas, popcorn, spin art! 
SATURDAY. AUGUST 29th 
Beach Party at Stepan Courts 
lpm-5pm WVFI live remote Tie-dyeing One ton sundae Volleyball tournament Giveaways 
SATURDAY/SUNDAY AUGUST 29th/30th 
Comedian Carrot Top as seen on MTV, Showtime Comedy Club 
Network, Evening at the Improv 8 pm Washington Hall .....-~~"'-Tickets: $3 at the La Fortune Info Desk 
Sponsored by: Student Activities, Student Union. Board, WVFI, Classes of 1993, 1994 and 1995 : 
··················································································· 
~---~--~---~----------------------------------------------------~-------------------­
Wednesday, August 26,1992 The Observer 
Commissioner Vincent to meet with owners who want to force him out 
NEW YORK (AP) -Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf said Tuesday he hadn't made up his mind on whether Fay Vincent should be forced out as commissioner, but said he believed he could be fired by the owners. 
"Every lawyer that I have spoken to has concluded that a commissioner can be removed from office," Reinsdorf said. "But let's deal with that if we get to that point. We haven't gotten to that point yet." 
Reinsdorf said he was one of the seven owners in the American League who re­quested the meeting, which will be held next Thursday at Rosemont, Ill. AL president Bobby Brown and National League president Bill White called the meeting Monday after Vincent refused to. 
" I hope we have a frank and open discussion of our prob­lems and the commissioner's performance," Reinsdorf said. ''I'm not going in with any pre­conceived ideas. I know what I feel, but I want to hear what other people think. It's my hope we come out with a clear consensus." 
Vincent's opponents say 18-20 owners oppose the com­missioner, but his supporters say the anti-Vincent faction is only 10-12. 
The Major League Agreement, the contract that governs baseball, does not have a procedure for firing a commissioner and says his powers may not be diminished during his term. Vincent last week said he would resist ef­forts against him and remain in power "until such time as the highest court of this land tells me otherwise." 
Reinsdorf said he hoped Vincent would attend next week's special meeting. 
"I was very distressed by the fact of the commissioner's un­willingness to talk," Reinsdorf said. "I can't imagine what harm ever comes from people getting together and talking. I think it's in the commissioner's best interest for him to attend and for anybody who believes he had done a good job to at­tend so both sides can be pre­sented." 
Vincent didn't have any comment Tuesday, but other baseball officials said he wasn't likely to go to the session. After receiving the initial request for the meeting on Aug. 17, Vincent wrote the league presidents "the purpose for which you request a meeting is unlawful and contrary to the Major League Agreement. Therefore, your request is denied." Vincent will make his final decision after consulting with Brendan 
V. Sullivan Jr., the new lawyer for commissioner's office. 
Reinsdorf, speaking by tele­phone from Chicago, denied accounts that he helped orga­nize the opposition to Vmcent. 
"Reports portraying me as a leader and a catalyst are not correct," he said. "I am one of a majority of the clubs which feel we have a number of problems that have not been addressed, and we want to have a meeting and assess the commissioner's job performance. I don't think the group has a leader. I had my doubts some time ago, but I didn't solicit people." 
Grand 
Openin 
Free Delivery 
or 

$10 rebate 
Store Hours: Mon.-Thurs. 11Hi 

Friday 10-8 • 9U lJAYS
Saturday 1G-5 Sunday 12-4 SAM_E AS CASH 
5936 Grape Road • Indian Ridge Plaza 
••[ill
Mishawaka, IN (219) 271·2388 
I •• ALUMNI 
.· ·.·..·.., ~···=· ·: ....,..•.•..••. ·~ ······:;~.· .,·:···
... SENIOR 

...CL 

page 15 

X-C 
continued from page 20 
into their third and final year as Notre Dame's top two runners out to prove that after fmishing in the top 10 three out of the past five years, Notre Dame is capable of winning it all. 
This year the Irish will not make the mistake of looking past the District meet to the NCAA's and McWilliams will make sure of that. 
"Without districts, there are no nationals," noted McWilliams, "We have to keep that perspective every day." 
He and Coyle have constantly reminded the other members of the team that there are only 81 days until the district meet, the first step towards regaining Notr~ Dame's seat as a national cross-country power. 
And that seems to be the only thought on McWilliams' mind. He has pushed his dreams of an individual national champi­onship in the background and is focusing on the task at hand; that of Notre Dame winning the district meet and erasing last year's disappointment. 
JOSEPH 
continued from page 20 
Joseph spent the first five games nursing his injured leg, but when he entered the lineup he made his presence felt in a big way. 
Spotting the rest of the team a five-game head start, Joseph stepped in to lead the Irish in scoring with 11 goals, including a hat trick against Dayton. 
Now it's a year later, and the Marietta, Ga. native will be a marked man· on the Irish front line, but he doesn't feel any pressure to match his 1991 excellence. 
"It's a team effort," Joseph said. "I don't set too many individual goals, I just want to help the team improve and help us live up to our ranking (20th in Soccer America's preseason poll)." 
He is the ultimate team player. 
Despite his unparalleled offensive statistics, he passes the credit along to everyone else and chalks it up to helping the team. 
"We have great senior 
fi i \-'. ~ .,.
CLIEF IS BACK! 
This Friday and Saturday Come Find Out What You've Been Missing 
9-2 
Must be 21 yrs. old 
........... ········· ........................................ . L--------------------~-----------------------­
Last year as a sophomore, 
-
McWilliams tried to simply lead by example. This year he and Coyle have become more vocal, in addition to showing the younger runners that hard work really does pay off. 
"Hopefully I have something I can teach them and make them better runners," said McWilliams. 
As far as leading by example, after finishing 17th in nationals McWilliams gave himself some time off over the summer-two days. He then had the best summer of running he has ever had, attaining a blistering pace of about 85 miles a week. Most people don't even drive 85 miles a week. 
But of course he didn't fail to mention that teammates John Cowan, Nate Ruder, J.R. Meloro, and Nick Radkewich and the rest of the Irish also worked extremely hard over the summer, all focused on one goal, just 81 days away. 
"There was definitely a piece missing at nationals," remem­bered McWilliams, "Now we have to make sure it doesn't 
happen again." 
leaders in Kevin Pendergast, Brendan Dillman and Mario Tricoci," Joseph explained. "I just step back and let them take over. I'm nut a vocal leader." 
He may be quiet, but his play speaks volumes. 
With a schedule looming that includes an exhibition game against Indiana and early season matches with perennial powers UCLA and Duke, the Irish will need everything Joseph has to offer. 
Although he will be a featured performer for the Irish, he is not the only weapon in a season that promises to be one of the best ever for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
With three experienced seniors and players like junior Mike Palmer and sophomores Tim Oates, Tont Richardson and Jason Fox returning, Joseph will have a lot of support. 
Irish coach Mike Berticelli has also brought in another great recruiting class, and the freshmen, led by forward Bill Lanza, will also be expected to contribute. 
That combination of raw talent and experience could take the Irish a long way in 1992, and Jean Joseph will help carry the load. 
"Our goal is to become the best team we can be," Joseph said. "First, we want to win the conference and get to the NCAA tournament, but we have to take it one game at a time." 
The ultimate team player. 
reduce, reuse, recycle, thank you 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
! 
1 
l 
l I 
1 
l 
I l 
l ~ 
page 16 The Observer 
-Redskins sign 3 holdouts but rival Cowboys still have 3 out of camp 
The Washington Redskins got their men and the San Francisco 49ers got their man, making wide receiver Jerry Rice the NFL's richest non­quarterback. Now it's up to the Dallas Cowboys to sign their holdouts if they want to even up the opening Monday night matchup with Washington that could have an early impact on NFC East race. Signed Tuesday by the Redskins were cornerback Darrell Green, offensive tackle Jim Lachey and Desmond Howard, the Heisman Trophy winner who will be groomed as a member of Washington's pass-receiving posse. The trio reported to camp 13 days before the Sept. 7 season opener at Dallas. Rice, the NFL's best receiver, had been seeking $10 million a year over four years. He signed a three-year deal estimated be­tween $7 million and $8 million and as often happens, it came after dire predictions ­Edward DeBartolo Jr., the 49ers' owner, said a week ago that expected Rice to sit out the season. 
But the Cowboys are still missing three keys to their of­fense -center Mark Stepnoski, tight end Jay Novacek and wide receiver Michael Irvin. Stepnoski is the hub of the offensive line and Irvin and Novacek are the two leading receivers, combining last year for 152 of Dallas' 305 recep­tions and 2,187 of their 3,663 passing yards. "We need those three guys to be the kind of football team we can be," said quarterback Troy Aikman. "We can be good with what we have, but we can be great with them." 

The signing of Howard and Rice could impact on Irvin, who led the NFC with 93 catches last year and was second in the NFL. Howard received $6 mil­lion over four years, including a $2.85 signing bonus; Irvin re­portedly is seeking $1.6 million a year. Lachey, considered with Cincinnati's Anthony Muoz as the game's best offensive tackle, will get $4 million over three years. That keeps him the NFL's best offensive lineman ahead of Houston center Bruce Matthews, who makes $1 million. The three Redskins' signings, along with the New York Giants' Carl Banks on Monday, still leaves some Pro Bowl-caliber players missing. The Los Angeles Raiders, meanwhile, placed two of their best pass rushers, Greg Townsend and Scott Davis, on the reserve-did not report list. The two signed contracts a year ago, but are staying away from training camp while trying to renegotiate. 
Other holdouts include wide receiver Andre Rison and cornerback Deion Sanders ·of Atlanta; linebacker Cornelius Bennett of Buffalo; tight end Keith Jackson and cornerback Eric Allen of Philadelphia and center Jay Hilgenberg and de­fensive tackle William "The Refrigerator" Perry of Chicago. Bears coach Mike Ditka has said he won't accept Perry in camp until he gets down to 320 pounds. Perry, close to 400 pounds at the end of last sea­son, reportedly weighs about 330 now. The signing of Howard, fourth overall pick in the draft, brings to three the number of first-rounders unsigned -corner­back Terrell Buckley of Green Bay, No. 5; quarterback David Klingler of Cincinnati, No. 5, and offensive tackle Bob Whitfield of Atlanta, No. 8. Joey Browner, the former All­Pro safety released by Minnesota just before training camp, was signed by Tampa Bay. Browner, whose 37 career interceptions make him second in the NFC, is a three-time All­Pro. This will be his tenth season. 
The Bucs also released wide receiver Ricky Nattie!, running back Alonzo Highsmith and safety Mark Robinson. Nattie! (by Denver) and Highsmith (by Houston) are former first-round draft picks. Seattle got down to 64 players by cutting four players, includ­ing veteran quarterback Rusty Hilger, and placing fifth-round draft choice Gary Dandridge on injured reserve. The Seahawks will stay at 64 because they have four roster exemptions for former World League players. Ninth-round draft pick Anthony Prior, a safety from Washington State, was cut to get down to the 60-man limit. The Giants also announced that an MRI on linebacker Gary Reason's sprained left knee showed no ligament tear. He was expected to be out two to three weeks. Indianapolis cut 10 players, including running back Ronald Humphrey, an eighth-round pick from Mississippi Valley State and defensive lineman Derek Steele, a seventh-round pick from Marlyland. Also cut was veteran tight end Bob Mrosko, signed as a free agent last year. In addition to placing Townsend 
Wednesday, August 26,1992 
SPORTS BRIEFS 

The Notre Dame Sports Information office is seeking volunteers for its operation for the 1992-93 school year. Students will work with all 24 varsity sports, press releases and statistics. Call Doug Tammaro at 239-7516. 
Varsity Hockey will have a meeting on August 31 at 4:30p.m. in the JACC Football Auditorium. 
Notre Dame Campus Golf Championships will take place on August 29-30 and September 6. The tournament wiH also serve as an open tryout for the varsity golf teams. The entry fee is $5 and all entries are due on August 26 by 5:00 p.m. 
Varsity softball will hold an informational meeting for all new and returning players on August 27 at 4:30 p.m. in the JACC Football Auditorium. Questions? Call the softball office at 239­6167. 
SMC sports writers should attend a meeting on August 27 at 
7:00 p.m. in 409 LeMans. Anyone interested in covering Saint Mary's sports for the Observer should come to the meeting. For more info, call Nicole McGrath at 284-5193. 
Rowing Club will hold a meeting at 7:30p.m. on August 27 in 205 Cushing. All varsity rowers should attend. 
Lacrosse meeting for all current team members and for people interested in trying out for the team on August 28 at 3 
p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center Auditorium. 
Notre Dame Rugby Club is starting practice. All returning players and anyone interested in playing should come to Stephan Field at 4:15 p.m. No experience necessary. Please bring cleats, mouthpiece and proof of insurance. Questions? Call287-3587. 
Student tickets for the Notre Dame-Northwestern game go on sale today at the JACC Box office at Gate 10 from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Football Officials are needed for RecSports leagues. Come to meeting on September 9 in the JACC Football Auditorium at 5 
p.m. for Grad football and at 5:30 p.m. for women's interhall. Officials earn $9 a game. 
Baseball umpires needed for fall baseball leagues. Anyone interested should report to an umpire's meeting on September 3 at 5 p.m. in the JACC Auditorium. Umpires earn $10 a game. 
and Davis on the reserve list, the Raiders released four players, including veteran wide receiver Mike Alexander. Alexander's best season was 1989, when he caught 15 passes for 295 yards. 
The Raiders placed four players on injured reserve: Offensive linemen James FitzPatrick and Tony Rowell, defensive lineman Walter Watts and running back Brent Fullwood. All will be out for the season. 
AI Toon still the main man as Nagle takes over 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. (AP)-In the corner of the locker room, not far from a side exit, sit the New York Jets wide receivers. It seems a perfect spot for players who excel at making quick getaways. 
There is Rob Moore, the deep threat with the languid running style. And Chris Burkett, the special teams star who has resurrected his career in New York. 
Terance Mathis, whose precise routes on pass patterns and skills as a kick returner have helped him overcome so-so speed, sits next to a burner, Rob Carpenter. 
The veteran of the group, the guy nearest the door but always willing to ignore it to hold an 
MARTEN 
continued from page 20 
campus where the old Notre Dame ratio does not apply. 
Are you motivated yet? 
If you are, get your team rosters together and you insur­ance card and go sign up at the Office of Recreational Sports soon because the entry dead­line for the mentioned pro­grams is September 2. For anyone else who is bad with dates, September 2 is a week from today. 

interview, is AI Toon. 
For the last eight years, Toon has been one of the NFL's premier receivers. He has a 92­game pass-catching streak, behind only Art Monk (132), Jerry Rice and Anthony Carter 
(95) among active players. He is a superb medium-range and possession pass-catcher who also can get deep. 
"AI can do it all," Moore says. "He's a great receiver." 
He also might be the most important receiver for the Jets this year. With the imminent switch to inexperienced Browning Nagle at quarterback, the Jets will need Toon's savvy more than ever. 
"This is a very talented, very young team with a lot of poten­tial," says Toon, entering his eighth pro season. "Potential. that is a key word. Young, that is a key word. Maturity will be a factor in how we do this season. How much have we matured?" 
Although they are 4-0 in pre­season, the Jets really won't begin measuring their maturity level until Sept. 6, when the regular season begins at Atlanta. For Toon, it will be the first time in three years under the regime of Bruce Coslet that he has not been feeling his way, not been uncertain about some assignments and routes. 
"I consider 1991 a transition year," he says. "I finally began to feel comfortable with the sys­tem. Now, I feel I can add a lit­tle bit of individualism. I'm 

is now accepting application for the following position: 
CIRCULATION DRIVERS 
Get paid to tour NO/SMC campuses at lunch! 
To apply, please contact Rich Riley at 239-7471. 
more comfortable now with a lot of the new people here." 
Being comfortable with Nagle is essential. Both the passer and the receiver know that. 
"How can I not learn from AJ?" says Nagle, who threw all of two passes as a rookie last year, completing one to Moore. "I learn from every receiver, but Al has been through a lot in the NFL. I'd be foolish not to go to him." 
So Nagle has gone to Toon. 
''I'll give him advice on routes I run a lot or like to run and maybe he's not seen a lot of," Toon said. "I tell him what to expect from me, which is all any receiver can do. Every re­ceiver, like every quarterback, has his own style. 
"I've worked with Kenny for eight years. I've worked a lot with Browning in camp and (preseason) games. It would be easier with any position once it gets settled. But I know both of them." 
Toon also knows that he must be an integral part of the pass­ing attack for the Jets to im­prove on last season's 8-8 mark. There has been specula­tion that Toon is fading because his last two seasons haven't been as productive as his first five years -when he had more catches than anyone in NFL history through five seasons. 
"I critique myself all the time," he says. "That's part of being a professional." 
"But Y'ALL, It's My Birthday!" 

Happy
21st Natasha 

We Luv you! T & D 
Wednesday, August 26,1992 
The Observer 
page 17 

-
Eckersley blows his first game of the season A's lose 
BOSTON (AP) -Dennis Paul Quantrill (2-2) was the eight innings as Baltimore got Bill Wegman (11-11), who Loser Kevin Appier (14-6) gaveEckersley blew his second save winner. 14 hits, including at least one in allowed four runs and seven up five runs and nine hits in five chance in 42 tries this season every inning, and stopped a hits in 6 1-3 innings, and Bernie innings.
when he gave up Billy Hatcher's three-game losing streak. 
Tigers 4, Twins 3 Williams homered off Dan White Sox 6, Blue Jays 3 
two-out, two-run double in the 
MINNEAPOLIS -Cecil Fielder Mike Devereaux and Chito Plesac, a two-run drive in a 
CHICAGO -Toronto lost foreighth inning, lifting the Boston hit a go-ahead sacrifice fly in Martinez homered for the four-run seventh. the sixth time in seven gamesRed Sox over the Oakland the sixth inning as Detroit sent Orioles, who turned the third as Charlie Hough (6-10) gained Athletics 5-4 Tuesday night. 
Minnesota to its eighth loss in triple play in the majors this Rangers 6, Royals 2 his 201st victory and Shawn
The Athletics had been 52-0 in season, the second at Camden
10 games. ARLINGTON, Texas-Kevin Abner hit a pair of RBI singles.
games Eckersley pitched. This David Haas (3-1) won even Yards. Reimer hit a long two-run A power outage caused a 19­
time, Eckersley (6-1) relieved Bert Blyleven (6-6) gave up
though he allowed three runs homer and Ruben Sierra added minute delay in the sixth inning 
with two outs and a runner on four runs and eight hits in· five­
and 10 hits in 5 1-3 innings a solo shot as Texas stopped a before Chicago won its fourth
second, and intentionally 
with four strikeouts and no plus innings. seven-game home losing streak. straight. Toronto's lead in the
walked pinch-hitter Wade 
walks. Mike Henneman, George Brett went 2 for 4, AL East was cut to two gamesBoggs. Hatcher, whose seventh­Detroit's fourth pitcher, got the Yankees 5, Brewers 1 including a solo homer in the over the Baltimore Orioles, who inning homer closed the Red final out for his 21st save. NEW YORK -Rookie Sam sixth, and tied Willie Keeler for beat California 9-1. 
Sox to 4-3, then doubled down Kevin Tapani (13-9) gave up Militello (3-0) won for the third 20th place on the career hits Hough allowed three runs andthe right-field line for his third 
all four runs and seven hits in time in four major league list at 2,962. Brett, who has six eight hits in five-plus innings, hit. seven innings, struck out nine starts, allowing one run and homers this season, homered in and Roberto Hernandez pitched 
Jeff Reardon, baseball's career and walked two. seven hits in seven innings as consecutive games for the first three innings for his fourth 
save leaders, got Terry 
Orioles 9, Angels 1 he sent Milwaukee to its third time since July 24-25, 1990. save. David Wells (7-8} allowedSteinbach on a grounder with BALTIMORE -Rick Sutcliffe straight loss. Jose Guzman (11-10) allowed six runs and six hits in 4 1-3the bases loaded and two outs (13-11) scattered four hits in Danny Tartabull homered off seven hits in seven innings. innings.
in the ninth for his 27th save. 

WORKSMARTER. N HARDER. 
complex numbers. Matrices. Vectors. Lists. Strings. Plus, it offers a powerful one-equation SOLVER. 
Try a 11-68 or 11-85 at your local 11 retailer today. And start working smarter. Instead of harder. 
... TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
Syracuse cuts down on media at practice 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) Syracuse coach Paul Pasqualoni has tightened restrictions on reporters covering the Orangemen, hoping that no news about the football team is good news. 
Syracuse's longstanding policy had been that reporters should not write about strategy during a game week. 
Pasqualoni has extended the policy to the preseason, with formations, new plays, position changes and InJuries considered off-limits by the university. 
Syracuse sports information director Larry Kimball said Tuesday his office will release information about significant injuries. 
Kimball said reporters who want to watch practices, must agree to keep developments they see out of the newspaper and off the air. If they don't, he said they won't be permitted to attend practice. 
Access to players and coaches remains the same, he said. 
"It is necessary to retain certain controls, particularly at this time of year when our competition is looking to get any piece of information about our preseason practice through media reports," Kimball said. 
Several schools, including Rutgers and Penn State, have closed practices and limit access to players. 
reduce, 
reuse, 
l
iangle Drafting Supply 
1021 North Moln Stroot Milhowoko, lndi.,. 48645 
1 ..... 1 (211112!111·24511 [llj 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 20% STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON MOST ITEMS M-F SAM-5:30PM SAT tAM-NOON 
page 18 The Observer 
-
Wednesday, August 26,1992 
Mitchell beats Lewis in controversial. 100m dash 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) -Dennis Mitchell used what appeared to be a false start to beat Carl Lewis in the 100 meters Tuesday at the BT Games, and in less than 10 seconds, he became the most unpopular man at Osterbro Stadium. 
Mitchell, a bronze medalist at the Barcelona Olympics, beat Lewis by .03 seconds, winning in a wind-aided 9.92. Lewis, who failed to qualify for the Olympic sprints because of an illness, finished second in 9.95. 
After the race, many of the 11,999 fans at the stadium jeered loudly as a replay of the start, shown several times on the scoreboard, strongly indi­cated that Mitchell shot out of the blocks way too early. 
"It's not a scandal," Lewis said. He said the doping case of German Katrin Krabbe "is a scandal. This is just something that happens." 
"And this has happened to me before. You just have to run. Otherwise from that I felt great. I thought I'd catch him. I felt good all the way. I ran my own race," Lewis said. 
Joe Douglas, Lewis's manager, didn't want to point a finger at the runners or the Danish organizers, who admitted they made a mistake, but he requested to have Mitchell 
RICE 
continued from page 20 
to come back from an elbow injury, is due to make $3 million while.his backup, Steve Young, is scheduled to earn $2.5 million. 
"It was worth it," Rice said of his holdout, which caused him to miss the team's three-week training camp and four exhibition games. 
Rice, kiddingly greeted by teammates as "Goldfinger," jo-ined the club's afternoon practice Tuesday and was expected to play in Friday night's exhibition finale against Seattle. 
"I feel real good about the situation and now, it's just time to play football," Rice said. "I'm anxious to just get out here and practice and catch football and get back into the flow again." 
During a lull in the negotiations, club owner Edward DeBartolo Jr. had said he thought Rice would be a holdout all season. Rice said Tuesday he never would have let the dispute drag on that long. 
"There was no way. I love this game and there was no way I would have let a contract keep me off the football field," Rice said. "In a situation like this, both sides try to compromise but you're going to have some disagreements. I'm just glad we worked through everything and now it's all behind me." 
The deal was structured to allow for the possibility of

... 
reopening negotiations should full-fledged free agency come to the NFL and trigger an escalation of salaries. 
"We've got a couple of provisos in the agreement that will allow us to reopen it, pending salaries over the next year or two," said Rice's agent, Jim Steiner. "In other words, we would reopen it, add a year 

disqualified. "But they didn't want to do it," Douglas said. 
Olapade Adeniken of Nigeria placed third in 10 seconds flat with Bruny Surin of Canada fourth in 10.10 and Vitaly Savin of the CIS fifth in 10.14. 
Leroy Burrell of the United States,the former world record holder who's been struggling this season, finished sixth in 10.29. 
Olympic champions Kevin Young and Quincy Watts posted expected wins, but Mike Marsh and Gwen Torrence, the Olympic 200-meter champions from America, were both upset in their races. 
Young took the lead early and won the 400-meter hurdles in 
48.57 seconds, almost two sec­onds off the world record of 
46.78 he set in the Barcelona Olympics. 
Winthrop Graham of Jamaica, the Olympic silver medalist and runnerup in last year's World Championships, had to settle with second again in 49.45. Third went to world champion Samuel Matete of Zambia in 49.49. 
Watts captured the 400 me­ters in another relatively slow winning time of 44.85 seconds, finishing half a second ahead of fellow American Steve Lewis, the 1984 Olympic champion. 
or two and bring up his average per year based on certain contracts that would be signed over the next couple of years." 
The 49ers had wanted a four­year deal, while Rice originally wanted a longer contract. But the two opted for three years after negotiations had reached an impasse. 
"What changed it was we couldn't agree on numbers for four years," Steiner said. "We were after something in excess of $10 million for a four-year period, but there was evidence that we weren't going to agree on that number -ever. 
"So as a compromise, we reduced our years and reduced our demands ... and made a deal." 
The 49ers are still after a longer deal, if it can be worked out. 
"The parties have agreed to keep open the prospects of continuing negotiations, which are designed to extend this contract beyond three years," Policy said. 
Samson Kitur of Kenya took third in 45.12. They finished in the same order in Barcelona. 
Frankie Fredericks, a double silver medalist in the Olympic sprints, won the men's 200 in 
20.21 edging Marsh by .07. American Michael Bates, who got the bronze in Barcelona, was third in 20.45. 
Torrence lost the women's 200 by .09 to Irina Privalova of the Commonwelath of Independent States, whose winning time was 21.93. 
Nourredine Morceli of Algeria, the world's premier middle distance runner, held off Kenya's Wilfred Kiorochi down the stretch to win the Gunnar Nielsen Mile, named after the former great Danish runner who set a world indoor mile record in Madison square Garden in 1955. 
Morceli, who failed in the Olympic 1,500-meter final when he was boxed in, had a winning time of 3:51.96. Kirochi finished in 3:52.56, .13 ahead of American Jim Spivey. 
Paul Bitok of Kenya won the 5,000 in 13:19.26. Khalid Skah of Morocco, who won a contro­versial 10,000-meter finale in Barcelona ahead of Richard Chelimo of Kenya, placed sec­ond in 13:19.51. Chelimo dropped back early in the race and wound up seventh. 
Other American winners in the meet included Charles Austin, who cleared 7 feet 6 1/2 inches in the high jump, and Sandra Farmer-Patrick, who won the women's 400 hurdles in 53.79. 
Nixon Kiprotich's strong kick with 40 meters left enabled him to pass Olympic champion William Tanui and win the 800 in 1:45.16. Tanui had 1:45.41. 
Robert Kibet made it a Kenyan triple in 1:45.58. 
Johnny Gray, the Olympic bronze medalist from the United States, finished a diap­pointing eighth and last in 1:51.53. 
Sonia O'Sullivan of Ireland upset Olympic champion Elena Romanova in the women's 3,000 meters, outkicking the CIS star to win the race in 
8:45.48. Tatyana Dorovskikh, the Olympic silver medalist from the CIS, was sixth. 
Werner Gunthor of Switzerland, a double world champion who failed in Barcelona, had the fifth longest heave of the year at 69-10 3/4 to win the shot put. 
Jim Doehring of the United States, who was second in the Olympics, hit 67-11 1/2 for sec­ond while countryman Ron Backes was third at 65-10 1/4. 

I I I ALUMNI .·..·.. , ,,. :· ·: ....,....·.• ·. ·~ •, ···:;:.· .,·..·-SENIOR Seniors, Thursday is Cup Night Corne see the rest of your class at your place. Only you can make it "The Place To Be" 9-2 Must be 21 rs. old  

• 20-30 PAID STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE • 


• $5.30 per hour  • meet new people  
• flexible evening hours  • training  
• no experience necessary  • real life experience  

Please join us for an infonnal 

OPEN HOUSE/INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, August 26th 4:00 -6:00pm at the Annual Fund Phone Center (Southeast corner of Badin Hall) 
If you have any questions, please call: Kathy Webb 239-7938 
--------
--------------~ 
Today 
Wednesday, August 26,1992 page 19 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 




50 Disassemble 52 Podded plant 53 Being, in Pau 54 Bridle strap 55 Libido 58 Pub tap 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
"Hey, boy! How ya doin'? .•. Look at him, Dan. Poor guy's been floating out here for days but he's still just as fat and happy as ever." 
CAMPUS 
WEDNESDAY 
All day. Tickets for the September 10 "They Might be Giants" concert at Stepan Center will go on sale at the price of $8 for students and $12 for the general public. Sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
THURSDAY 
7'B.nd 9:15p.m. Film "Wayne's World." Carroll Auditorium. Saint Mary's College. 7 and 9 p.m. and midnight. Film "Encino Man." Cushing Auditorium. 
MENU 

Notre Dame 
Welcome Back Picnic: 
Barbecue Pork Ribs 
Hamburgers 
Hot and Spicy Chicken Sandwiches 
Hey You! 
Yeah You! 

If you're interested in becoming a part of the coolest organization on campus, stop by The Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune or our booth at Activities Night coming soon to the J.A.C.C. 
ACROSS  32 Kringle  58 Oppositionist  
1 "Shane" hero 5 Maitre d's handouts 10 A rib in knit goods 14 Hebrew measure 15 Use a podium  33 "It-Be You" 35-Paulo, Brazil 36 Shopper's aid 37 Everybody, in Spain 38 Poisonous Tibetan plant 39TV spots  57 Dull 59 Or, in Essen 60 Province of Ecuador 11 Beethoven's "Archduke-" 82 Agnail, e.g. 83Attack  
11 Actor Braeden 11 Capitol Hill ploy  40 Staggering 41 Sparling  84 City of the Huguenots  
19 Junior's bb's  42 Persephone's  
20 "Saturday Night Fever" star 21 Spoken  mother 44 Troupe group 46 Disquiet  DOWN 1 Golf shot  
23 Biblical high  48 Thun's river  2 Kabul chieftain  
priest  49 Had erotic  3Poet-Mare  
24 Near-ringer  cravings  4Expel  
21 Flatware items  51 Doorway  5-Rouge,  
29Verily  curtain  Paris  
&Once, once  
7 Of birth  
8 Navajo foe  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Kind of quarters 10 Nudist's ~~-Et antithesis 11 "Amharic =::+=~-Et Grammar" ~~~~~~~~ author 
~ 12 Type of bean -::::+:~+=! 13 Bionomics: Abbr. ~..:+.:=+=-! 18 G.l.'s who can't shoot straight 22 Within: Comb. 
form ~~~ 25 Phantoms ~-:+.:+=! 28 Skitter ~~~ 27 Be adequate ;.;;.;.o.;~"'-'-' 28 Blacksmiths 
I ' I 
I l 
~ 
l 
l 
I 
l I 
I 
I 
.. 
; 
I 
1 I l 
1 
l 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
looms 38 Casanovas 40Fitto­41ln-quo 
(as is) a Whole 

WELCOME Weekend 192 
Rockfest National Comedian LIVE@ Stonehenge CARROT TOP 
Encino Man 
Oysfunktion Access Denied as seen on MTV & others FREE@ Cushing Auditorium XYZ Affair & Many More Aug 29, 30 7 p.m., 9:30p.m. 12 a.m. Aug. 28, 4p.m ... 12 a.m. 8 p.m. Washington Hall 
' Free snowcones, soda, ~Tomorrow popcorn, & spinart $3 @ LaFortune Info Desk 
~ South Bend White Sox vs. Beloit Brewers 
Free @ Coveleski Field 7 p.m. tickets @ LaFortune Info Desk 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
[_____________..______________________ 
-
Sports
page 20 

Wednesday, August 26,1992 
·­

McWilliams leads cross-country 
By JONATHAN JENSEN Sports Writer 
At last year's NCAA Championships, Mike McWilliams just never felt right. 
Even though he was returning to the meet that saw him earn All-American honors with a 34th place finish as a freshman, there was something that was missing -his teammates. 
He ended up turning in an astounding 17th-place finish, and he was amazingly just the eighth American runner to cross the finish line. 
Still, McWilliams admitted that, "It never really felt right. We travel everywhere with the team and we got to nationals and they weren't there." 
It may sound surprising, but this type of team-oriented attitude is nothing new for McWilliams, who probably would have easily exchanged his All-American honors for a team championship. 
This year, McWilliams and the rest of the Notre Dame men's cross-country team with accept nothing less. 
After finishing third in the nation two years ago, last sea­son the Irish were not able to garner an automatic bid to the NCAA's by finishing among the top three District IV qualifiers, but they still expected to receive one of four at­large bids. 
However, the selection committee snubbed the Irish for Northern Arizona, a team that statistically did not compare. to Notre Dame. 
"That was the biggest disappointment," said McWilliams, a native of Grove City, Pa., "But it has become the biggest motivating factor for the team this year. We have something to prove." 
McWilliams and senior All-American John Coyle head 
see X-C page 15 
Slosar aiming to rebound from injury 


By GEORGE DOHRMANN 
Sports Writer 

All the cliches apply when fifth-year senior Jennifer Slosar talks about her chances in returning from injury to help the women's volleyball team this season. 
''I'm just playing it one day at a time," commented the Michigan native. "It's day by day to see if I can contribute." 
The reason for the scepticism is the leg injury suffered by Slosar in November of last year. After realizing the severity of the break doctors inserted a metal rod the length of Slosar's leg. The task took five procedures and will require two more to remove the rod later this year. 
Despite the slim chances of a successful comeback from such a surgery, Slosar decided to make an attempt to play. So far the reviews have been positive. 
"I didn't think that I would be able to play, but I wanted to see where I was in comparision to the other players," added Slosar. "Now it's just a matter of seeing how long my leg can hold up. It's felt 
Jen Slosar 
good so far." 
The support she has recieved from her teammates and family has been overwhelming, and Slosar believes it has helped her comeback effort. 
"It was my down decision to return, but the rest of the team and my parents have been so supportive of my decision. That has helped make things easier for 
me." 

At first there was question as to whether Slosar would have eligibility 
Niners clear one hurdle by getting Jerry Rice signed 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. (AP)-Jerry Rice 
made his point in a challenge to the NFL's salary pecking order. N9w, he's ready renew his challenge to the NFL's receiving records list. 
"I might not be with the quarterbacks but I'm right behind them," Rice said Tuesday after signing a series of three one-year contracts with the San Francisco 49ers, ending a 37-day holdout. 
It is estimated to be worth between $7 million and $8 million and includes a 25 percent bonus, payable upon the completion of the pact. 
Rice earned $1.7 5 million last season, his sixth in which he had at least 1,000 yards in receptions. 
Another 1,000-yard season would tie him with Lance Alworth for second on 
the all-time list, behind Steve Largent, who had eight. 
As he begins his eighth season, Rice has 93 career touchdown receptions, well within range of Largent's record of 100. 
Rice, a five-time Pro Bowler and the 49ers' all-time leading receiver, had said he wanted a salary on par with the league's best quarterbacks and he came close. 
"This contract makes Jerry Rice the highest paid non-quarterback in the league," club president Carmen Policy said. 
Miami's Dan Marino, with an annual salary of $4.2 million, is t~e league's highest-paid player. San Francisco quarterback Joe Montana, who is trying 
see RICE page 18 

remammg, but by appearing in only three games during an injury plaqued junior year she was granted a fifth year by the university. 
Slosar's battle with injury should add another footnote to what should be stellar season for the Irish. As a freshmen she was a member of the first Notre Dame team to qualify for the NCAA tournament, and hopes to duplicate that feat in her final year. 
"This is definatly an NCAA caliber­team," said Slosar. "There is a competitiveness on the team which should carry us far. We are a very talented group." 
At 6'1" Slosar will be one of the tallest returning players for Notre Dame, and her strong outside hitting could be another weapon in the Irish arsenal. As a s_ophomore she finished second on the team with a 2.69 kill average. 
With only three more classes remaing for Slosar to recieve her degree in engineering, she has enrolled in graduate studies with the university to 
receive her MBA. 
Jean Joseph hopes for strong start in '92 
. 
soccer campa1gn 

By JASON KELLY 
Sports Writer 
An injury during pre-season 
practice is not the best way for a soccer standout to begin his career. 
But that's exactly what happenend to Notre Dame men's soccer star Jean Joseph last year as he prepared for his rookie campaign. 
As just one of 15 freshman in Notre Dame's best recruiting class ever, it seemed as thought his leg injury could stifle his improvement and throw him to the back of the pack as just another talented freshman. 
It didn't quit.e work out that way. 
see JOSEPH page 15 
~ 
t 







