

~·~lit
-Q&· 

1342·1092 SESQUICENHNNIAL 
e Observer SaintMa~Scakgo
NOTRE DAME•INDIANA 


VOL. XXIV NO. 82 -
Loyal fans 
Spirited Notre Dame juniors enjoy last night's 76-54 victory against the Dayton Fliers. 
TUESDAY, JANUARY 28, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

voted to: 
•Allow 
Notre Dame's foreign study programs to continue participating in student body presidenVvice-president elec­tions despite the logistical and cost concerns raised by the Elections Committee; 

•Place 
a referendum on the ballot of the March 2 general election for Student Senate that will gauge the opinion of stu­dents concerning the Academic Code of Honor; and 

• 
Approve a resolution calling upon the Office of Student Af­fairs to clarify the regulations governing the ability of dorm Judicial Boards to rule on stu­dent disciplinary matters. 



Dixon holds respect despite tainted past 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
Officials at United Limo of Osceola, Ind. confirmed yester­day that the driver of the char­tered bus that crashed Friday, killing two members of the Notre Dame swimming team, had been convicted of drunken driving five years ago. 
Reports also confirmed that Howard E. Dixon, of Mishawaka, had had his license suspended on an unrelated charge of disregarding a traffic signal in New Jersey in 1990. His license was valid at the time of the accident Friday. 
Even with the confirmations, Dan Shoup of United Limo maintained that Dixon was well-respected and had a clean record with the company. The 
• Seatbelt/ page 3 
53-year-old driver had received a six-year safe-driving award from his employers. 
Dixon was a regular driver for the Notre Dame swimming team. News that his driving performance was being ques­tioned angered some members. 
"It wasn't an issue of getting home fast, there was no reason to be speeding right before the accident," said sophomore member Collette LaForce. "We were going way under the speed limit." 
Shoup said a representative from the women's swimming team telephoned the company to express concern and support for Dixon. 
Dixon's license was sus­
see DRIVER I page 4 

Senate plans to increase voter participation 

By MICHAEL SCHOLL 
News Writer 
Hoping to improve voter turnout in student body elec­tions, the Student Senate last night approved by a plan to in­crease the number of polling places that will be made avail­able to off-campus students. 
Under the plan, polling sta­tions will be set up in North Dining Hall, South Dining Hall, and the Hesburgh Library. In addition, the polling station traditionally found at the LaFortune Center information desk will be moved to a sepa­rate table within that building. 
The inconvenience many off­campus students felt when at­tempting to vote at the single LaFortune polling place was cited as a major cause for the minimal turnout among off­campus students in recent elec­tions. "(Off campus students) have found it difficult to get the attention of information desk workers," said Judicial Board Chairperson Ellen Lewis. 
Lewis stated her belief that the plan should help convince off-campus students that voting will not be too time-consuming. 
The Senate approved the plan by oral vote after a reject­ing a proposal made by Senior 


Swimmers receive much appreciated support 
By MEREDITH 
McCULLOUGH 
Assistant News Editor 
Bouquets of flowers, visits from friends and relatives, and the outpouring of support from University students, faculty, and staff have helped to keep recovering swim team members in high spirits in spite of the pain of injuries from Friday's bus accident. 
Of the eighteen women taken to the Notre Dame infirmary after receiving treatment from nearby hospitals following the crash, five still remain in the care of University Health Ser­vices. 
Sophomore Alicia Feehery, sophomore Karen Keeley, freshman Lisa Mancuso, senior Cyndie Safford, and senior Becky Wood have been told they will probably be allowed to return to their dorms by the end of the week or the weekend, according to Safford. Senior Jenny Kipp was released Monday. 
"We are all feeling extremely weak in general," said Safford. "We hurt all over ... (but) ev­eryone is in great spirits." 
She explained, the women suffer from a variety of injuries: 
•Feehery sustains severe 
back and neck injuries, as well as a broken wrist and a sprained ankle. It is possible that she has a dislocated jaw. 
•
Keeley and Safford are both recovering from bruised ab­dominal areas. Safford also sustains spine, neck, and back injuries. 

•Mancuso 
has had several problems with her right leg, in­cluding possible broken bones and/or internal bleeding. 

•Wood 
has been tested for in­ternal injuries. 


"The Notre Dame community has been great, said Safford. "Everybody has stopped by." 
Vice President of Student Af­fairs, Patty O'Hara, Assistant Vice President for Resident Life, William Kirk, and University President, Father Edward Mal­loy, have visited the women, in addition to friends, family and the members of the men's swim team, according to Safford. 
Malloy has been especially supportive, she said. Since stu­dents at the infirmary were un­able to attend the Memorial Mass for Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp on Friday, Malloy made a special trip to the in­firmary to perform a "mini­Memorial" just for swimmers and family members. 
see INFIRMARY I page 6 
UCC remains busy helping swim team 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Assistant News Editor 
It has been a busy weekend for the University Counseling Center, according to center psychologist Clinton Gabbard. 
Following the bus crash that killed two Notre Dame swim­mers early Friday morning, the center has been busy meeting with parents and members of the swimming team, Gabbard said. 
Many of the parents "had concerns and questions about what kinds of support we would be offering (the team) on an ongoing basis," he said. 
Counselors from the center met with the team Friday afternoon, and support meet­ings were held at the center Saturday, Gabbard said. Extra counselors were also available on the center's 24-hour emer­gency hotline, "in case there (would be) a greater than usual volume of people calling," ac­cording to Dennis Moore, direc­tor of Notre Dame Public Rela­tions and Information. 
Although there were "a cou­ple of calls," from people who wanted to talk about the tragedy during the weekend, the number of callers was not greater than the number that usually call the center, Gabbard said. 
Gabbard was impressed by the "close-knit" nature of the team. "They were offering a lot of support to each other." 
The center will be forming an ongoing support group for members of the team, accord­ing to Gabbard. "After all the dust has settled, there will be a lot of sorting things out," he said. 
The counselors will also be staying in close contact with the rectors of the individual residence halls. "We want to be available to go into a hall to talk about the tragedy and about grieving in general on an 
see COUNSELING I page 5 
Class Vice-President Sean O'Neill that would have allowed off-campus students to vote by mail. Several senators ex­pressed concern that the transmission of official ballots through the mail would in­crease the chances for election fraud. 
"(Balloting by mail) would be a Chicago politician's dream," said District 1 Senator Dave Certo. 
Lewis indicated that the Election Committee would take steps to prevent off-campus students from voting in more than one polling place. 
Also last night, the Senate 

It does your body good The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
Freshman Lisa Flanigan "keeps on moovin'" with milk as she sits on the LaFortune steps yesterday afternoon, waiting for her friends to get laundry money. · 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Americans should support opening files 

In a recent interview, actor Kevin Costner observed that the amount of criticism attracted by Oliver Stone's film JFK, in which Costner stars, is ironic. 
Costner noted that if the Dave Dleteman American people could engage such great energy Sports Editor in an attempt to discredi.L-_______ 
the film, it was ironic that they did not exercise similar vigor in pressing for the release of the numerous secret files relating to the case. 
Costner, who seems to have hit the nail on the head, here speaks-as he did in the film's soliloquy-to the American people. 
In a land where voter turn out is obscenely low for a first-world democracy, a land where over 90 percent of incumbents are re-elected and politicians appear to know and care little for real issues, Stone's cinematic sabre-rattling is a welcome breath of fresh air. 
Yet Stone's film, its merits and factual ac­curacy aside, should serve as a cow prod in the American buttocks, prodding a lazy, self­engrossed giant into action. 
Yet this Stone-sparked action should not be limited to barbershop chatter. Instead of taking Hoger Ebert's word for it-instead of listening to elected officials with a stake in the film's conclusions-the American populace has before it an opportunity hidden for the past 29 years. 
JFK, as Costner pointed out, is not so much a statement of what actually happened as it is a call to enquiry. 
Centuries ago, Saint Augustine, while lounging in a pear orchard, heard the call ringing today: Pick up and read. 
There is already plenty of reading material to be found relating to the Kennedy assassination. The New York Times featured extensive coverage of Kennedy's Texas trip, and provided a veritable cornucopia of stories in the days following the tragedy. 
Former New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison published his account of the conspiracy to kill the president in 1988. Aside from Garrison's book. Stone's film is also indebted to the book Crossfire, written by Jim Maras. 
Of course, the list of relevant literature is substantial, and anyone who actually read it all would have enough material for a dozen Ph.D.'s. 
At the very least, people should write their representatives and let their voices be heard. There are two bills under consideration in the Congress at this point. 
The first, proposed by Rep. Henry Gonzalez (D., Tex.) calls for the release of a limited number of files which have been squirreled away since 1963. The second, proposed by Rep. Louis Stokes (D., Ohio) would release all files held by all government agencies, including the FBI and CIA. It is Stokes' resolution which could very well open up the proverbial can of worms. 
Do your descendants a favor-write your representative. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff: News: Systems: Lauren Aquino Czar Capella Alicia Reale Jon Halloran 
Pat Barth Sports: Rich Szabo Accent: 
Cheryl Moser Production: Steph Goldman Viewpoint: Cynthia Ehrhardt Cheryl Moser Melissa Cusack 
Illustrator: Susan Sullivan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
.::·:·:·:···:·:·:·:·:···.·: 
TEMPERATURES: 
City H L Amsterdam 41 28 Atlanta 50 43 Bogola 68 41 Boston 29 16 Brisbane 84 70 Chicago 33 26 Denver 45 22 ...: Evansvlla 51 26 .·;:~: Falrbarl<a 02 -05 ~=::~:: Great Falla 55 31 ,.,.,,. Honolulu 81 62 
Houston 57 53 
London 45 37 
~~nr.::, ~~ :~ :: 
~=-~:aul ~: ~~ / Paris 41 36 Philadelphia 36 18 Santiago 86 57 San Diego 75 49 .:::: South Band 2t 22 Tokyo 52 43 Tulsa 49 41 

.-----,Pr,....ass-uf9--------------------------------,{~:.;! 21 Washlnglon, D.C. 37 

) H L ~ ~ [Til EZl G2l ~ 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD . . 
Indian women suffer as mfenor sex 
•NEW DELHI, India -On a hot summer night, a penniless couple took their lame 6-year-old daughter to the edge of the Yamuna River and pushed her to her death. "They said they were too poor to save for her dowry, and a lame girl would have meant more dowry money," said a policewoman. The murder, in 1989 in New Delhi, is repeated thousands of times a year in India. Girls are undernourished and often married soon after attaining puberty. Many wives who do not bear male children or bring sufficient dowry are burned to death by in-laws or driven to suicide. Most Indians are inured to such killings because the male-dominated society, fed on scriptures of the Hindu religion, presents the image of woman as weak and inferior, born to serve man. Feticide and infanticide have given India a disproportionate sex ratio. It declined from 934 females to 1,000 males in 1981 to 929 to 1,000 in 1991, according to the latest national census. 

NATIONAL 
Woman tries to set fire to dance club 
•NEW YORK-A woman poured gasoline on the outside walls of a dance club filled with 600 people and 
OF INTEREST 
•A 
van drivers course will be offered to all those who have not previously attended and are planning to request use of the Center for Social Concerns' vans. The course will be held today and tomorrow at the Center for Social Concerns at 5 p.m. This is mandatory for anyone planning on driving the vans. 

•summer 
Service Project information meeting for Notre Dame students will be held tonight at 6:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. The deadline for SSP applications is February 7. 

•The 
next User meeting will report on Next World EXPO, and will be held on Wed. at 7 p.m. at Com­puter/Math Building Room 210. For info contact Bruce Williams at 239-6588. 

•The 
NAACP will hold a general meeting tonight at 7:30 


p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. All students are welcome to attend. 
MARKET UPDATE 

-Q ~ c::=1 
threatened to burn it down but was arrested before she could light the fire, police said. Yvonne Vertha, 33, was charged with arson, said police spokeswoman Sgt. Tina Mohrmann. Vertha had been ejected from the Octagon club in Manhattan early Sunday after getting into a fight with another patron, police said. She threatened to burn the place down and returned with a gallon of gasoline, Mohrmann said. An employee flagged down a patrol car and Vertha was arrested, police said. 
Small quakes shake Alaska 
•ANCHORAGE, 
Alaska -Two moderate earthquakes shook interior Alaska, but there were no immediate reports of any damage or injuries. Authori­ties said two quakes, one Sunday night and the other early Monday, had preliminary magnitudes of 4. ~ on the Hichter scale. The first quake was centered m a remote area about 110 miles southwest of Fairbanks and wasn't widely noticed. But the second, centered about 90 miles northeast of Anchorage, was felt by res­idents from Fairbanks to Anchorage, officials said. The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. 

•Any 
undergraduates interested in helping create a journal of Catholic social and political thought as it relates to college students, come to an organizational meeting in the Foster Room tonight at 8 p.m. 

•seniors 
interested in a year of service after graduation, a Covenant House representative will be on campus. Keely Bishop, a former member of the Covenant House Faith Community, will be in the Library Concourse from 10 a.m. to noon and at the esc from 1 to 3 p.m. tomorrow, to talk about the work of Covenant House with homeless children. 

•Residence 
hall contracts for 1992-93 academic year have been sent to the residence halls. In order to be eligible for housing in the fall, students must return the contract to the Office of Student Residences prior to 5 p.m., January 31, 1992. 


ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
•In 
1986: The space shuttle Challenger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff from Cape Canaveral, killing all seven crew members: flight commander Francis "Dick" Scobee; pilot Michael Smith; Ronald McNair; Ellison Onizuka; Judith Resnik; Gregory Jarvis; and schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe. 

•In 
1878: The first daily college newspaper, the Yale News, began publication in New Haven, Conn. 

• 
In 1973: A cease-fire went into effect in the Vietnam War. 

• 
In 1978: Fire swept through the historic. downtown Coates House hotel in Kansas City, Mo., killing 20 persons. 


Tuesday, January 28, 1992 The Observer page 3 
Seatbelts are rare on chartered buses 
By MONICA YANT 
News Editor 
It is not uncommon that the chartered bus carrying mem­bers of the Notre Dame women's swimming team home from Northwestern Thursday night was not equipped with seatbelts, according to company officials. 
Seatbelts are not offered by American manufacturers as an option for chartered busses like the one which crashed early Friday, killing two members of the women's swimming team, according to Dan Shoup of United Limo. 
The only United Limo vehicles equipped with seatbelts are the European­made busses used to transport people on airport runs, he added. These busses require seatbelts for passen­gers sitting in the unprotected first row. 
The bus involved in Friday's crash that took the lives of Margaret "Meghan" Beeler and Colleen Hipp and injured others had a padded panel in front of the first row of seats, he said. 
There are no laws or regulations mandating that charter companies equip busses or other commercial vehicles with seatbelts, said Chuck Hurley, director of Notre Dame Security. He added that most school busses do not have seatbelts. 
Shoup cited studies indicating that bus passengers are safer in a crash without a seatbelt than with one as one reason why American manufacturers might not offer the protective devices as an option. 
But while studies may indi­cate the possibility of reduced injury, experience has shown Hurley that seatbelts might do more good than harm. 
''I've seen enough traffic ac­cidents to know that seatbelts make sense," he said. 
Officials are still investigating the cause of the accident. 


Students partake in March for Life 
By JEANNE DE VITA 
News Writer 
Forty-seven students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and the surrounding Indiana com­munity joined more than 200,000 Pro-Life demonstrators in Washington D.C. for the annual March for Life walk last Wednesday, January 22. 
"It was really inspiring, " said Saint Mary's freshman Lori Dickinson. "I got a clear view of what was going on." 
Students attended a Pro-Life rally in front of the Capital Wednesday morning. Speakers at the rally included Nellie Gray, coordinator of the Wash­ington D.C. Pro-Life and March for Life, Jessie Helms, Terry Randall, Cardinal 0 'Conner, several Catholic bishops, Jewish Rabbis, and various authors. 
The March continued for sev­eral hours, with demonstrators travelling down Constitution Avenue to the Supreme Court. 
The March for Life has oc­curred every year since Roe vs. Wade was passed in 1973, said Notre Dame co-president of the ND/SMC campus Right to Life organization, Julie Hennigan. 
The passage of Roe vs. Wade enforced the privacy of the in­dividual woman's choice to opt for abortion, however, Henni­gan suggested that the Pennsyl­vania law that is due to come before the Supreme Court in the next few months could retract some of that privacy if it is passed. 
The Pennsylvania law would require parental consent for women desiring an abortion, and would also require 24 hours to pass after a woman indicated a desire to have an abortion, before one could le­gally be performed. 
This, Hennigan suggested, would legislate time for a woman to consider what she would be doing by having an abortion. 
Hennigan noted that the uncertain position of Clarence Thomas on the abortion issue gives hope that Roe could be overturned as early as this year, or that the responsibility for overturning Roe could be passed on to the states. Henni­gan also suggested that this is­sue would become a major fac­tor in the nomination of candi­dates in this election year. 
"What shocked me the most," said SMC president of the ND/SMC Right to Life, Arnie Halstead, " was the protestors." 
Bearing signs and banners displaying "violent, angry, and crude" messages, Pro-Choice protestors were bussed in to warn Pro-Life demonstrators to "Keep Your Rosaries off our Ovaries." 
"But," said Halstead, "it made me feel very peaceful to be Pro­Life." 
"It's not a struggle to take over somebody's choice," said Dickinson of the Pro-Life movement. "It's a struggle to save our youth." 
Hennigan said her goal is "of course to overturn Roe vs. Wade," but all involved stressed the difference between choice and women's rights. 
"Feminism is more than being Pro-Choice," said Halstead. 
"Choice is separate from abortion," said Hennigan. "Pro­Life is as much for women's rights as Pro-Choice." 
"You'd think on a Catholic campus, "you'd have 100% support, but that's not the case, " said Hennigan. "You get really frustrated...To just see the support (in Washington D.C.) is more positive and uplifting, so we can keep work­ing." 
The March produced "such a momentous feeling," said Hal­stead, with the songs, prayers, and peaceful unity of "all com­ing together for this one belief." 
Dickinson described her ex­perience at her first March for Life: "The truth has to be told. Where are we going to begin? Are we going to sacrifice every­thing in this life, even our chil­dren?" 


Bush continues battle plans for war on drugs 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent Bush vowed again Monday to win the war against drugs as he unveiled a $12.7 billion strategy that sticks pretty close to past battle plans -and drew criticism for that reason. 
"Everybody that is working the problem is determined that we will win this war," he told a White House audience. "It is imperative that we put more resources into our fight." 
His request to Congress for money to fight drugs next year amounts to a 6.5 percent in­crease. 
But he said the war is far from won, even as federal spending to fight drugs has al­most doubled from the $6.6 billion spent in 1989. 
"The poison of drug abuse and the violence it breeds have left a trail of death and de­struction in our cities and any­one who lives in a big city knows of places close to home that look like war zones, the neighborhoods burned and scarred, tyrannized by gangs, by drug gangs," Bush said. 
The breakdown of the pro­posed budget is much like those that preceded it, allocating $8.6 billion to reducing drug sup­plies and $4.1 billion for cutting demand. 
• The supply-reduction funds include $5.6 billion for domestic law enforcement, and $3 billion for international efforts and interdiction. The biggest proposed increases are 8.8 per­cent for demand reduction and 
8.4 percent for domestic law enforcement. 
"Prevention is the only an­swer in the long run," said Bob Martinez, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. But in the short run. "increased interdiction, international and law enforcement efforts are necessary, as well as treatment for those currently using drugs." 
Bush said the strategy calls for "taking our federal dollars to the front lines," sending $3.5 
billion to state and local gov­ernments. 
One of the few changes in the strategy is an emphasis on cur­tailing alcohol use by minors. 
Congress, which has been criticized by the administration for failing to fully fund the drug strategy's demand-reduction programs, was quick to criticize the new strategy. 
"Unless there are some changes in direction, our na­tion's drug epidemic is going to continue to grow in the years ahead," said Sen. Joseph Biden Jr., D-Del. and the chairman of Senate Judiciary Committee. 
"It is not a lack of will on the part of Congress that hampers our drug efforts, but a lack of a sound strategy, and a lack of effective leadership from the administration," Eiden said. 
Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich., chairman of the House Gov­ernment Operations Committee, said that the strategy misses the "millions of people . . . who live on the margins and are ad­dict-ed to drugs." 
Bruce Carnes, the drug con­trol office's director of planning, budget and administration, said the administration is trying to increase the funds for high-risk groups and hard-core drug addicts to $1.2 billion. That's up from $339 million in 1989. 
Among proposed administra­tion programs aimed at such groups are: 
-The drug treatment capac­ity expansion program. The administration sought $99 mil­lion last year to increase treatment slots, mainly in inner cities. Congress authorizfld $9 million. For 1993, the strategy seeks $86 million. 
-Drug emergency grants for school districts with large at­risk populations. The adminis­tration last year requested $49.5 million and received $30 million for these grants for drug-use prevention. The ad­ministration wants $60 million for 1993. 



------·--~---------·-·­
The Observer 

page 4 Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
Sixth annual Late Night Olympics Attorneys select jurors 

for future Dahmer trial 
will take place Friday in JACC 
MILWAUKEE (AP) -Attor­Milwaukee County proceedings. 
By ANDY RUNKLE 
News Writer 
The Late Night Olympics will be held Friday night to raise money for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics, according to Pat Flynn. night manager of Recreational Sports. 
Rec Sports is organizing the sixth annual campus-wide event. The Late Night Olympics have averaged 1200 partici­pants and have collected $2000 during the past five years, Flynn said. 
All 15 Olympic-style events will be held in the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
"The evening will feature tra-
Boating accident survivor aids search for seven companions 
UNIONTOWN, Ky. (AP)-A woman who survived nearly a day shivering on an Ohio River island returned to the river Monday to help authorities search for seven people missing for two days since their boat sank in cold, choppy water. 
Diana Boling, 34, of Hender­son, helped officers retrace the path of a 16-foot aluminum boat took before it was swamped in the white capping river around 2 p.m. CST Satur­day. 
Meanwhile, friends and rela­tives of the victims asked them­selves why an experience boater would pack eight people 


Driver 
continued from page 1 
pended from Sept. 18 to Dec. 
16, 1987 for the alcohol-related 
incident. He was off-duty and 
driving his own vehicle at the 
time, according to Shoup. 
"It was a very unfortunate, 
isolated incident." Shoup said. 
Dixon did not drive for United 
Limo during the three-month 
suspension. 
The crash early Friday morning that claimed the lives of Irish swimmers Margaret "Meghan" Beeler and Colleen Hipp, both 19, was Dixon's first major accident in almost seven years with the company. Investigation continues about the cause of the accident in which Dixon lost control of the bus on the Indiana Toll Road near the South Bend exit. 
Dixon did have one previous minor incident in which he bumped another car while in New York. Still, Friday's inci­dent was Dixon's "first accident of any substance," Shoup said. 
Dixon is on medical leave un­til he recovers from injuries sustained from the accident. His condition and the investiga­tion into the cause of the crash will help determine his future with the company, Shoup said. 
"It's awful traumatic for him, regardless of what the investi­gation turns up," he added. 
The chartered bus driven by Dixon passed an annual inspec­tion by the state of Michigan just two weeks before the acci­dent, Shoup said. He was unaware of any mechanical problems that could have been a factor in the crash. 
No charges have been filed against Dixon. State police of­ficials said that alcohol was not a factor in Friday's accident. 
ditional sports, like basketball, and other events like dodge­ball," Flynn said. 
Students from three dorms will be combined to participate on each team, he added. Each team must contribute $150 to be eligible to split half of the collected money. The winning team will be the one which has accumulated the most Late Night Olympic points. 
The donations for the event will come from each dorm,;s funds. The money collected will aid the local Special Olympics program, according to Flynn. 
"St. Joe (Special Olympics) really counts on us," Flynn commented. 
The entry deadline for Late 
into such a small craft and set out under such hazardous conditions. 
"That makes no sense to me, why they would all get in that boat like that and take that risk, all of them being river people," said Melanie Janowiak. 
She said she knew all of the passengers and occasionally went boating with them. 
Ray Lacer, the man whose daughter, granddaughter and son-in-law are missing in the river, said he could not under­stand why life preservers weren't used. 
"You just don't set out on that river this time of year," he said as he walked along the Ohio River bank five miles northeast of Uniontown, looking into the water. "If they had just had those life jackets on, I'd have three live ones right now." 
Lacer's missing relatives were 

REGGAE 
Concert & Dance Party 


JflkEY DRElD 
And the DREAD AT THE CONTROLS CREW With the CHICAGO ALL STARS 
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 29th 8 P.M. TWIST & SHOUTS NITE CLUB 
PARKMOR PLAZA· ELKHART· 264-6036 STREET WISE PROMOTIONS 



BUT rTS HARD TO REMEM.SIR LYRICS KIN-KO'S-RAT-A-DA'T-.DAT SO\kJE rMKf COI'I£5 AI KINKOS. IT5 BOOM-8A'N6 RATA· DAT-OAT .SOC.OOLWEWROTE.ASONGABDI.JT DONINEEDNO 80-Z.OS 
C.t\EtK 
IT OUT. 
/ ...TWO ... 
...ll\1\E£.. ' 
Kathy Osborn, 33, and her hus­band Jeff, and Mrs. Osborn's daughter, Melanie Fulton, 16. Also missing are Arnold Phillips, 53, of Corydon; his grandson, Joseph Harton Jr., 14, of Henderson County; and Bill Holsing, 35, and Roland Johnson, 26, both of Henderson County. 
Rescue crews from Union and Henderson counties, along with Kentucky State Water Patrol and Fish and Wildlife officers, dragged an area about one-half mile long and asked Boling what she remembered about the accident. 
The boat had set out about noon from a launch in Union­town. They had traveled five miles upstream when they en­countered white caps three to four feet high and tried to turn around. 
Night Olympics was yesterday. Schedules for the events will be posted after 1 p.m. on Thursday at Rec Sports. 
The night will also include open skating and other activi­ties, according to Flynn. "T­shirts and food will be available as well," he added. 
"There will be a wide variety of activities, so people can come if they want to and watch," Flynn commented. 
Scheduled activities include pentathlon, 3 on 3 basketball, water volleyball, innertube wa­ter polo, indoor soccer, bomb­ball, nerf football, broomball, whiffleball, volleyball, wallyball and the ultimate rec sports challenge. 

neys on Monday began selecting a panel of jurors who will determine if serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer was sane when he strangled and dismembered 15 young males he had lured to his home for sex. 
The trial will determine 
whether Dahmer will be sent to 
prison or to a mental hospital. 
About 150 potential jurors reported to the courthouse Monday. 
Of the 70 questioned, 25 said they could not serve on a jury that will be sequestered for an expected three-week trial. They were taken one-by-one into the judge's chambers with the at­torneys, Dahmer and a pool of three members of the media to explain why. 
All 25 were excused, including one woman who said she breeds birds that would die if she were unable to hand-feed them daily. Others cited finan­cial or family reasons, saying they couldn't be away from home or work for three weeks. 
"Judge, I just don't have the stomach for it," another woman said. 
The remaining group of 45 was retained to be questioned about their feelings about serv­ing at a trial expected to in­clude details of necrophilia, cannibalism and crude lobotomies. 
Dahmer, 31, was arrested in July after officers found body parts scattered through his west side apartment. He later confessed to killing 17 young males since 1978, 16 in Wis­consin and one in Ohio. 
Prosecutors said they don't have enough evidence to charge him in one of the Wisconsin deaths. The first victim was killed in Dahmer's hometown of Bath, Ohio. Prosecutors say he will stand trial there after the 
KJN-J-<.0'5· YDUDOI'l'TE\IER CJ.OSE IN CLASS-KIN-KO'S·YDU REAlLY KrN·l~o·s·YOU DON'T fVERDOlf SAVEMY-BOOM·BANG·RATA-l>~T KIN-J.<O~·MAKE.ME LOOK GOOD PAT· KJN·KO~·fTHINK I LDVE 'fou . 
iHANI<YA. 
:Tl\ANKYA 
/~F.~ MUCH 
Dahmer looked straight 
ahead during most of Monday's 
private questioning sessions, 
but occasionally leaned around 
to look through an outside 
window. 
A panel of 12 jurors and two alternates is expected to be chosen no later than Wednes­day. 
They must determine whether Dahmer suffered from a mental illness that kept him from real­izing his crimes were wrong or made him unable to stop him­self from committing them. 
On Jan. 13, Dahmer pleaded guilty but insane to the 15 Wis­consin murders. 
If found insane, he would be sent to a mental hospital and could petition for release every six months. If deemed sane, he would receive a mandatory life prison sentence for each slay­ing. 
News media from as far away as France, England and Aus­tralia are covering the trial, which is to be carried on the Court TV cable television chan­nel. 
A few protesters stood in the hallway outside the courtroom with signs claiming the city government supports gay lifestyles or saying Dahmer is a Satan worshiper. 
"The penalty for what Dah­mer has done is to put a mill­stone around his neck and dump him in Lake Michigan. That would be the biblical pun­ishment," said Bob Brown of the Christian Civil Liberties Union. 
The jury will be asked to re­turn a separate verdict for each of the 15 charges and could possibly find Dahmer insane on some counts but not on others. 

f 


The Observer 

Tuesday, January 28, 1992 page 5 
Clemency challenged by Ohio State officials 
COLUMBUS. Ohio (AP) -in which Celeste did not meet State officials are going to court legal requirements: seven of the Tuesday to challenge clemency eight death sentence commuta­that former Gov. Richard tions, and clemency involving Celeste granted in his final days four other people, two of whom in office to 11 criminals, were released from prison. including seven killers on death row. Fisher, a Democrat who also 
Celeste's successor, Gov. Ge­took office last January, sued in orge Voinovich, and other offi­state court to reverse all of the cials contend Celeste acted 11 disputed actions. The case hastily and disregarded a law goes to trial Tuesday. that requires the governor to apply to the Ohio Adult Parole Celeste, who has a consulting Authority and await its recom­business, did not return tele­mendations. phone calls seeking comment. 
Attorney General Lee Fisher He has said he was exercising said the governor can disregard his constitutional responsibility the parole authority's recom­to investigate claims of unequal mendations but must be held justice. He said mental impair­accountable for such decisions. ment was a factor in the cases 
"We are simply arguing that and that some of the convic­he must follow the process," tions involved scant evidence. Fisher said. "I personally be­lieve that the governor should The inmates whose death 
By MARA DIVIS there. Augusta Hall, a residence and quints," she said. "But the have broad clemency powers. sentences were commuted in­News Writer hall reserved for juniors and majority of rooms that end up But I equally believe that they cluded Leonard Jenkins, 37, seniors, has its own lottery sys­being left over are singles in should be exercised in the light convicted of killing a police of­
Changes need to be made in tem held earlier than the all­Regina." of day." ficer in 1981 during an at­the room selection process for school lottery, she said. Kelleher said that this issue Public Defender Randall tempted bank robbery. He was students studying abroad, said Although most students said needs to be resolved through Dana, who represents the in­the first person sentenced to students at a special meeting of that they thought the lottery student input and ideas. mates, said the Ohio Constitu­death after Ohio's death penalty the Residence Hall Association system is fair, some voiced con­Other issues raised included tion gives the governor unre­was restored. Monday in Regina Hall. The fo­cern over the issue of students questions about segregating stricted authority in granting rum was the first of four this studying abroad for only one residence halls by class. clemency. Another was Deborah Brown, week, one in each residence semester and for students un­"I think we would agree that who took part in an eight-victim hall, to get student input for decided about whether to study Halls which are integrated by the constitution takes prece­murder spree that spanned five possible changes in future room abroad for the coming year. class have less camaraderie dence over statutory law," Dana states in 1984. Her partner in selection processes. "I don't think it (the current than halls or sections which said. that spree was Alton Coleman, 
According to Director of lottery system) is fair to abroad house solely members of one Celeste, a Democrat and who was convicted of at least Residence Life Mary Kelleher, students," said one student. class, one student said. staunch opponent of the death four murders and sentenced to the residence life staff wanted She said that students who penalty, commuted the death death in Ohio, Indiana and to hear student complaints and return after one semester away Other campuses which have sentences of four men and all Illinois. suggestions about the present or who go away for the second halls in which students spend four women on Ohio's death system, which has not been re­semester are slighted because all four of their years instill this row four days before he left If the challenge succeeds, evaluated since the early 1980s. they are not allowed to sign up sense of camaraderie in the office in January 1991. He did they and five other inmates 
"Right now we just do it by for a room with roommates. students, said junior Gina not commute the sentences of whose death sentences were random lottery numbers," she Multiple rooms can only be Pavoni. 93 other death row inmates. commuted could be returned to said. "I don't know if there is a reserved for the number of stu­Six sentences were commuted death row. The two inmates better way to do it. That's why dents they are intended for, "But on our campus, (Saint to life without parole; two were who were released would not we're coming to you." Kelleher said. Mary's)," she said, "We know commuted to life with parole necessarily have to return to 
Kelleher said that the current "We can't hold a space for each other anyway because possible after at least 15 years. prison. An appeals court or the system consists of a lottery in someone who isn't here," she there aren't that many of us." After Voinovich, a Republican prisons department could allow which first rising seniors are said. "It's not fair to those who who favors the death penalty, them to remain free. numbered randomly within are here on campus. That Regina Hall director Linda took office, he and the heads of their class. These students then would be taking away so many Price also presented the stu­the prison system and parole Dana said none of the eight get to choose any room on spaces from students who are dents with a list of suggestions authority asked Fisher to inves­were near execution. Under campus, based on their number. already here." for specialized floors and sec­tigate all of the nearly 100 Ohio law, death sentences are Then juniors, sophomores, and Kelleher also explained that tions, which included more non­clemency requests Celeste automatically appealed in a first-year students are assigned transfer students and those smoking sections, a cul­granted in his final months as process that can take years. numbers to pick on their students who return from ture/language section, and a governor. There have been no executions respective nights, she said. studying abroad after one quiet/study floor. Fisher said he found 11 cases in Ohio since 1963. 
Kelleher explained that four semester may not get the room ] of Saint Mary's' five residence they had planned on getting, or Students are encouraged to halls are integrated by class, that would be financially easier attend any of the other meet­
Counsel 

and that each hall has a quota for them to afford. ings this week to voice com­on the number of members of "A lot of people need, for fi­plaints or suggestions, Kelleher continued from page 1 each class permitted to stay nancial reasons, to live in quads said. 
Procter & Gamble 
Management Systems Division 
Pizza Party! Tuesday, February 28, at 7:00 PM Morris Inn -Alumni Room 
If your major is: Engineering, MIS, Applied Math, MBA, CAPP 
Learn more about career opportunities available at Procter & Gamble! (Internships Also Available) 
ongoing basis," Gabbard said. 
People who want to talk about the tragedy can call the University Counseling Center 24 hours a day at 237-3940. 
American Heart ft 
Association~ 

________________,_ 
NEED TO 
DOCTORYOUR MCATSCORE? 
IfyourMCJIJ score needsa 
shot in theann. rome to the 
expertsintest pn!paJlltion­
StanleyH. Kaplan. 
Our test-takingtechniques 
and educalional reviewwill 
lldpyoube intopcondition 
test<Ia\[ We11 notonlysharpen 
your sdenli&c knowledge, but 
your reading. problem-5oiYing 
and essay-writingskills too. 
So call the best in 
test prep-Kaplan. Andgetan 
MCJIJ scorethatyoudeserw. 

IKAPLAN 
Su.JY 11. UPUIIIIIWIDIALCllniiJI. 
DON'TCOMPETEWin! AKAPLAN STUDENT-& ONE 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 



page 6 The Observer Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
President Bush consults Republicans about budget 
WASIIINGTON (AP) -Presi­
dent Bush consulted with Re­
publican congressional leaders 
Monday about his much bally­
hooed State of the Union ad­
dress and budget blueprint as 
the White House abruptly re­
versed course and attempted to 
lower expectations. 
"lf expectations tomorrow are 
reasonable, the president will 
meet them," White House press 
secretary Marlin Fitzwater said. 
It was a sharp about-face after 
two months of White House 
trumpeting. 
Rep. Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., 
predicted Bush would challenge 
Congress to enact his recession­
fighting program by early 
March. Gingrich said, however, 
that he was only guessing. 
Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., 
said Bush told the lawmakers 
that he would ask Congress to 
pass his economic proposals by 
a specific date, although he said 
no date was mentioned. 
"He wanted this done very quickly," Domenici said. "This is urgent." 
Meanwhile, the Washington Post and The New York Times reported that budget director Richard Darman is rewriting portions of the national health care section of the budget to address concerns of congres­sional Republicans. The Office of Management and Budget an­nounced that the budget will be delayed because of "printing problems." It had been sched­uled for release Wednesday morning. White House chief of staff Samuel Skinner said it might take a day or two to rec­tify the problem. 
The Times said U.S. Rep. Bill Gradison, R-Ohio, and other Republicans on Capitol Hill were concerned about a pro­posal to impose a new. tax on 
Infirmary 
continued from page 1 
Spirits have been heightened further by recent steps toward physical recovery. 
Monday marked the first day that the five women spent time in the training room stretching and receiving heatpack treat­ment. 
"Today was easy," said Saf­ford. "I'm sure it's going to get a little more strenuous." 
All five women were also able to attend the funeral Mass Monday morning in the Sacred Heart Bascilica. 
Safford said that she thought conditions would improve even more when team members are able to "get back in the water and float around a bit." 
"l t will be good for the team spirit to get back and feel the water-to be together in an en­vironment we are very familiar with," she said. 
While Safford said that it would be good to get back to hnr friends, she "can't say its been bad (in the infirmary)." 
"I really want to compliment the nursing staff," she said. " They provided care for abso­lutely every need-food, mPdieine, and just being here when we got scared." She also 1~xpressed gratitude towards Dr. James Moriarity and Dr. Stephen Simons who have been trnating the women and trainer Jim Huss. 
Still, she said. "It will be good to get back among students." 
"It's accidents like this that put back into perspective what's important," said Safford. "I look forward to walking up and down the halls again, looking up and seeing the Dome, and just walking around and enjoying the campus again," she added. 
Spring Break SURF'S UP 
DOMERS I SMICKS tired of South Bend and -43°? Get on your own Party Plane to Cancun, Mexico. From 8475 to S635 
Our goal is to get achartered plane per dorm to beautiful Cancun Mexico lor Spring Break. 
Contact Campus Reps. 

LANCE DAWSON 
271-1681 
oc/Dillon Jell Burgis 289-8842 oc/ Sorin Mike Kamradt 289-8842 {SMC) Mary Kamradt 284-4380 BP Marina Poulakidas 283-1284 oc/ Flanner Jodi Armetta 283 -8842 Walsh Tiffany Stransky 283 -2840 Grace Todd Henson 283-1784 

IN ADDITION : We have trips to Daytona Beach, Florida. Student Holidays 1-800-724-1555 
health insurance benefits that affluent people receive from their employers. And they also were concerned about a pro­posal to increase Medicare premiums for people with high incomes, said the Times. 
The Post said the congres­sional Republicans had been led to believe the health care provi­sions would not be announced until mid-February, after sig­nificant consultation with them. Skinner told Darman to delete the details, said the Post. 
Bush will go before the nation Tuesday night with an election­year package of tax cuts and spending proposals to help pull the economy out of recession and give a boost to his sagging poll ratings. On Wednesday, Bush releases his budget plan. 
Coming amid the longest re­cession since the Great Depres­sion, Bush will try to sell Congress on his formula for economic revival. Democrats already are preparing their own alternatives. 

"He will provide a thoughtful rationale for our approach to stimulating the economy in both the short term and the long term," Fitzwater said. "It will respond to our national and international security needs as well as laying out his views of what the government needs to do and the country needs to do in a post-Cold War world from a security standpoint." 
The package includes income-tax relief for the middle class in the form of an increase of sev­eral hundred dollars in the per­sonal exemption for families with children, a one-year $5,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers and a reduction in the tax rate on capital gains. 
The budget will propose higher spending for such popu­lar programs as Head Start, environmental cleanup, park purchases and space explo­ration. 


Tuesday,Janua~28, 1992 
NASA adds one day to flight of Discovery 
SPACE CENTER, Houston (AP) -NASA today extended Discovery's weeklong flight by a day to gather more scientific data, a rare occurrence in the 11-year shuttle program. 
Scientists welcomed an extra day to give experimental mer­cury iodide crystals more time to grow. Discovery is now due back on Thursday. 
The crystals are difficult to grow on Earth. If perfected, they could be used in tele­scopes, medical equipment and monitoring devices in nuclear power plants. 
The space agency polled sci­entists on the ground to see if any of their experiments might suffer from an extra day in or­bit. Two previous Spacelab missions were extended by a day for scientific purposes; eight other flights were ex­tended because of bad weather at landing sites or other techni­cal problems. 
The crew of seven has used less electricity and water than expected during the first five days of flight. Astronauts dimmed the lights Sunday to conserve energy. 
"We'd be more than happy to stay up," commander Ron Grabe told Mission Control. 
A weary astronaut, mean­while, struggled to stay awake during dizzying tests to under­stand the disorienting effects of space. 
This morning, David Hilmers whirled in a rotating chair, a nauseating ride he and three crewmates will endure at least three times during the flight. As they spin, their eye movements are recorded by a camera in the helmet they wear. 
Hilmers, a Marine lieutenant colonel, apparently has adapted so well to the test that it doesn't even keep him awake. 
"It seems like Dave's having a little bit of trouble with the eyelid there -looked about half-mast most of the time. Could you hum the Marines hymn or something to keep him awake?" suggested backup payload specialist Roger Crouch. 
Late Sunday, Hilmers and physicist Ulf Merbold took turns pushing each other back and forth on a sled that glides along 40-inch tracks. 
Each man sat upright and lay on his back as he received elec­tric shocks behind the knee. Scientists measure calf muscle reactions to the shocks to see how the nervous system reacts in space. 
Doctors hope the experiments will help them understand space motion sickness, a queasiness that afflicts most astronauts. 
Earlier in the day, the astro­nauts showed millions watching the Super Bowl pre-game show why a coin toss doesn't work in the weightlessness of space. 
Astronaut Roberta Bondar held a coin as she did cartwheels 187 miles above Earth. She released the coin and it floated away. 
"As you can see in zero-g. the coin never comes down, so we'll just have to defer the coin toss to the official pre-game cere­mony," said Grabe, who wore a Washington Redskins cap. 
Pilot Stephen Oswald, who wore a Buffalo Bills cap, said the crew had hoped the Hous­ton Oilers would be in the Super Bowl. 
"But it looks like you've got a couple of great teams that are going to go at it and we're just sorry that we don't have a way of receiving the game up here," he said. "Besides that, NASA is keeping us real busy today." 
Mission Control radioed the crew the final score -Wash­ington 3 7, Buffalo 24 -and apologized to space-borne Buf­falo fans. 
More than 225 scientists from 14 countries are taking part in the array of experiments on the effects of zero gravity and space radiation on plants, insects and humans. 
The cargo includes 72 million roundworms, 32 million mouse bone cells, 3 billion yeast cells, stick insects, slime mold and frog eggs and sperm. 
All but a handful of 480 fruit flies brought on board were killed by sterilizing chemicals accidentally left on the insect containers. 
The Observer page 7 

The Observer/Marguerite Schropp 
High flying ape 

The Phoenix gorilla made a guest appearance at the ACC last night during the half-time of the men's basketball game against the Dayton Fliers. He put on a dunking show that could rival Michael Jordan's. 
NEW YORK (AP) -R.H. Macy & Co. Inc., the retailer known around the world for its Thanksgiving Day parade and enormous Manhattan store, sought sanctuary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court on Monday, overwhelmed by debt and the recession. 
Plagued by the same sluggish sales as other retailers, Macy's fought for two years to remain solvent. But it conceded defeat Monday when lawyers carried three boxes of documents into a courthouse and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protec­tion for the 134-year-old re­tailer. 
"We have known for some time that Macy's had more debt than is desirable in such a weak economy," chairman Edward Finkelstein said in a statement. 
"We worked night and day to find a suitable solution and ul­timately came to the conclusion that filing for Chapter 11 was best for Macy's future." 
The filing showed Macy's had liabilities of $5.32 billion against assets of $4.94 billion as of Nov. 2. 
Much of the debt was left from the company's $3.48 bil­lion leveraged buyout by man­agement and its $1.1 billion purchase of the California­based Bullock's and I. Magnin chains from Federated De­partment Stores Inc. in 1988. 
All of Macy's units, including its 144 department stores and 107 specialty stores, were listed in the filing. The department stores are concentrated in the Northeast, the South and the West. Speciality stores are scattered around the nation. 

The documents starkly illus­trated how severe Macy's plight had become. The company told the court it expected to lose $86.5 million in the next 30 days. 
Chapter 11 allows a company to continue to operate while it reorganizes without retribution from unpaid creditors. 
Macy's entered bankruptcy court protection as Federated and its affiliated company, Al­lied Stores Corp., prepared to emerge from Chapter 11. Like Macy's, they were swamped by takeover debt. 
Retailing analysts said Macy will undergo a reorganization process similar to Federated and Allied, selling or closing underperforming stores. How that will affect Macy's 69,500 employees remains unclear. 
Sandra Mayerson, an attorney specializing in bankruptcy cases, said Macy's likely would sell Bullock's and I. Magnin chains. 
But the biggest change was expected to be in Macy's own­ership. 
"The equity owners now will be out. That investment won't be worth anything," said Tom Razukas, an analyst with Fitch Investors Service Inc. 
Macy's creditors could end up owning the company, in much the same way that Federated and Allied creditors will hold the equity in those companies. 
Macy's entered Chapter 11 after a disappointing Christmas left it unable to pay vendors. The company tried to assemble a rescue plan under which Loews Corp. chairman Lau­rence Tisch, a stockholder, would have invested another $1 billion in the company. 
Under the proposal, Macy's creditors would have received less than the face value on their debt. But a major creditor, the Prudential Insurance Co. of America, balked at the proposal and Tisch withdrew it Friday. 

JPW SEATING WILL TAKE PLACE MON., JAN. 27, TUES., JAN. 28, & WEQ., JAN. 29 IN RM. 112 OF THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION. THREE STUDENTS AND THEIR PARENTS WILL BE SEATED AT EACH TABLE. ONE STUDENT MAY BRING IN THE IDs OF THREE STUDENTS TOTAL. 
QUESIJ'IONS? CALL 239-8028 OR 283·2537. 

2 CHANCES TO FIND OUT 
HOW•••. 

ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVIST 
• 
JANUARY 29th 
:1 IRESIDE CHAT PRESENTATION : 
• 
•

12 p.m. 
7p.m. 

Library Auditorium
ISO Lounge 
Free Lunch 
Admission Free 
• 
• 

• 
Tuesday, January 28, 1992 The Observer page 9 
Mother's nightmare becomes heartbreaking reality NY mother goes to jail and is separated from 3-year-old daughter 
(AP)-Denise Perrigo's tale makes parental blood run cold: how she posed a simple ques­tion -about breast-feeding ­to the wrong people and sud­denly found herself in jail, in court and separated from her 3­year-old daughter for a year. 
''I've had moms call me and start bawling, imagining it happening to their own child. And then I start crying again, too," said Perrigo, 29. "There's been a lot of pain reflected in their voices, imagining what we've been through. A lot of anger, that this could happen. A lot of fear." 
The Onondaga County De­partment of Social Services in Syracuse, N.Y., which declined to discuss the case, has also heard from frightened parents, said Diane Erne, DSS deputy commissioner. 
"There's a lot of breast-feed­ing women out there saying, 'Heavens, could I lose my child?' But as a policy state­ment, this department has never removed a child because a mother was breast-feeding," Erne said. 
"It was never described as breast-feeding," countered Ralph Cognetti, the Syracuse attorney who is preparing Per­rigo's lawsuit against DSS and others. "They twisted it and called it sexual abuse ­'placing the mouth on the breast.' If it wasn't so serious, it would be laughable." 
It began a year ago, when Perrigo called a community volunteer center to find a phone contact for the local La Leche League, a breast-feeding advo­cacy and support group. 
She wanted to know whether it was normal to become aroused while nursing. Had she reached La Leche, she would have learned that yes, many women experience such feel­ings. 
Instead, she was referred to the Rape Crisis Center, where the volunteer apparently equated Perrigo's question, and the fact that she was nursing a 2-year-old, with sexual abuse. 
The center called the child abuse hotline. Perrigo spent the night in jail. Her daughter was taken by the DSS workers. 
During a five-hour police in­terrogation, Perrigo said, "I was just focusing on, if I could just explain it to these folks, if they could just understand that it was just a mistake, that we could get this whole mess straightened out, and that would be the end of it." 
It wasn't. Criminal charges were dismissed immediately, but DSS filed sexual abuse and neglect charges in family court and kept her daughter, who she didn't see for a week. Her court-appointed attorney, Karin Marris, was shocked by the case, her first involving abuse allegations. 
"I was well-read about nurs­ing and what's normal," said Marris, a young mother who breast-fed her own children. "I was in touch with the right people immediately." 
Meanwhile, Perrigo's parents filed a petition for custody of their granddaughter. Despite the department's policy of making every effort to place children with family or friends, it failed to act. 
"We were after them for 
months on this," Marris said. "And finally, we received a one­page letter where they said essentially that Denise's parents were unacceptable because they did not believe any abuse had taken place." 
Perrigo's parents were forced to hire their own attorney. Eight months after Perrigo's daughter was put in foster care $8,000 of their own money later, they were granted custody. 
In the interim, Perrigo's own visitation with her daughter be­came increasingly restricted. For months, she saw her only two hours once every two weeks, in a small room at the county office building, while a social service worker stood by. 
"At first, she kept asking to nurse. And I said, 'You can't, honey, you really can't,"' Per­rigo said. "And then the older she got, and the more time we spent away, it would be, 'Mommy, when can I come home? Mommy, let me tell the judge I want to go home."' 
In April, Family Court Judge Leonard Bresani found that no abuse or neglect had taken place and ordered Perrigo's daughter returned. He cited testimony by La Leche League officials who had spoken about the normalcy both of nursing toddlers and having feelings of arousal while breast-feeding. 

The department persisted. 

"I feel the caseworker assigned to the case felt Denise was guilty from the very beginning," Marris said. "It became very mean-spirited." 
Instead of returning the child, DSS filed new charges before a different judge the next day. Among these were allegations that Perrigo had inserted for­eign objects in the girl's vagina; later, it was decided that this was the child's description of having her temperature taken rectally. 
An imminent danger hearing, normally a procedure com­pleted in a matter of weeks at most, dragged on for five months as DSS dredged up ev­ery potentially damning detail from Perrigo's past. 

seen Jesus come to life before my own eye~. "Love liv~s again, that with the dead had been...Love IS come agam, like wheat arising green." So goes the old Easter ~ymn. In those final, awful, gaping moments of a commumty 
gathered but still lost and broken,_Love liv~ again. Even as 
the tears were falling, they gave birth to a field of 
compassion. This is what I saw from my high place, up in 
the loft, as we gently left in the dusk. 
I 

r--------------------------------------------------­
Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, January 28, 1992 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 
1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chief Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor ................•...... Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ........•...... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor .................... John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan " Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Edltor............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and ObJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and 1ns1de Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Active duty reductions make military option insecure 
Dear Editor: uninformed. Despite the above drawbacks, of, What does the military do sor's column is that I couldn't 
I write to complete the picture Consider the following: the I enjoyed my time in the mili­now that the USSR threat has tell what his purpose was for that Professor Craypo of the Army is facing a 30 percent tary. I learned quite a bit about dissipated? In brief, about the bringing the military into his Economics Department left un­reduction in active duty my country and myself. On the same thing that the private sec­argument. Was he "blaming" finished in his column of Jan. strength by 1995 (which other hand, I decided it was tor is doing-cutting drastically the military somehow? Was he 
23. I opted out of the Army in actually began prior to Desert best left as a good starting point and sending people into panic. implying that something was September 1990 after three Shield/Storm with a broad in life-which route many In 1987, when I was commis­wrong with having solid high years of service and am "early out" program for junior officers (college gradu­sioned, there were far more school graduates enlist and stay currently a first-year law stu­volunteers}; officer pay lags 11 ates) also choose. qualified HOTC graduates hop­in? Or would he prefer that we dent. percent behind private-sector Sixteen months on the other ing for active duty than the go back to the days of "jail or 
Upon a first reading I was pay for commensurate side hasn't changed that belief. Army could handle. This re­the Army?" outraged at what I saw as Pro­responsibilities; separation from In other words, the civilian sulted in hefty disappointments. Let me attempt an answer by fessor Craypo's implication that families is all too frequent; and world looked more attractive in From what I've read, the situa­way of reminder that our rela­the military was somehow to the possibility of going to the long run. As my father (a tion is far worse today. tively painless victory in the blame for our civilian sector's foreign lands and dying is ever­retired, career Air Force offi­I refer you to the local ROTC Gulf was in no small way re­woes. After a rereading, I am present (i.e. Who had heard of cer) pointedly observed to me, cadre for details. In any case, lated to the quality of today's not so sure that his piece Saddam Hussein before August "The military isn't the best the point is that only the very enlisted and officer ranks. In deserved quite so much wrath, 1990?}. place to be during drawdowns." best ROTC cadets are being my opinion, any price we have but decided it still warranted a Did I mention the 2 a.m. Of course, all of this assumes brought in to active service, paid for such performance is reply and clarification. phone calls to go pick up a sol­that if one decided to take the probably an equivalent propor­worthwhile. Unfortunately, now 
Although I appreciate the dier who was just arrested, or "ROTC anyone?" option, that an tion to those non-ROTC students that the battle is over, many of bleak outlook for new college weeks at a time deployed in the active duty commission, let who are somehow still getting those same volunteers will be graduates that Professor Craypo California desert surviving on alone a career, would be avail­decent civilian jobs right out of getting their pink slips as well. detailed. his presumption that something which soldiers refer able for the asking. You see, college. Frank T. Pimentel the military is a more attractive to as "Meals Rejected by Professor Craypo failed to an­I suppose what bothered me Law School and secure alternative is Ethiopians?" swer his own implied question most, though, about the profes-Jan.23, 1992 
Students ignore recycling with annoying habits 
Dear Editor: we create habits we carry for some students don't even get to 
I'm writing this because I've our whole lives. Shouldn't a trash can. Earlier this year I been noticing a very annoying these habits be environmentally collected about 30 cans and habit about the student body, sound? bottles that were tossed away environmental apathy. It seems on the island of St. Joseph's to me of all the things to not What brought all of this to my Lake. care about, this has to be one of attention is I've been seeing the worst. Not only is this a numerous examples of student I'm not trying to take a holier­critical issue to society, but carelessness regarding recy­than-thou attitude, we're all in many things can be done about cling lately. Everyday after this together, I just want to it which require little efl'ort. lunch in the dining hall, I'm make the student body aware of 
able to grab five or six the easy things which can be 
It is fine to care about grades Observers ofT used lunch trays. done to help the environment. and future professions, but we What makes this disturbing is This is our planet, let's take also have to adopt a global view there's a recycling can a couple care of it. And please recycle once in a while. It will be hard of steps away. this paper. to enjoy future prosperity if we can't visit the Bahamas because I can't count the number of Tom Sweder of the depleted ozone layer, or aluminum cans I've picked off Cavanaugh Hall can't go backpacking because the tops of trash cans this year Jan.22,1992 there's no wilderness free of to carry them ten feet to a garbage. This is the time when recycling box. Even worse, 

DOONESBURY 

" 
TH&St PUJPtb THAT AR& NOIAJ CAMPAIGNING R:J!<. P/?&5/{}ENT.,. 7Het'V&NEMR fJI5t3N HE/?&fJff()Rf3. 
7H&Y IXJ'V'T!<NOW TH£ HfAf?TBE;AT OFIT. WHENA HURRICAN£3 H/75 
Ft:Jf<l7MOU7H, ITH/7'3MYHa15CIJP lHERE/oflTSOrM AaJtflFROMH£1i?l. ANf)11/HENI a.J45 {](}f!J3 70SCJKXJL­
tflt USW 70 C/)f1P&~ IN '-1 / NEWIIAMPS'-1/R£... :::-' -::' 
/'\ 
ON& THING THATREAL..L-Y­WC'U. Ci..fAN THIS UPFOR. 771/S MARVtu:v5AUI?IfflC£-BU!<NS nuP-Pf/TIT!HATWAY-15 lH/5 CHAR6!3 THATI I?ON'T CAR£. ANO I CAN UNOER­
5TIWO IT... 
\ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
TIM/3'3 AR& 7DUGH. THIS 
5TAT!3 HAS GON8 THt<rJ:X;ff 
Hat,. IT'S GONe TH!<OUGH AN txTRAORI?INAI</f...Y /liFR{})Cl COMING Off'A PINNACL/3, YOU 
MIGHT SAY, OFtOW UN&MPt.OYMEWT. 
\\,1/_...-­
----1 I\""' 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The greater the contrast, the greater is the potential. Great energy only comes from a correspondingly great tension between two opposites.' 
C.G. Jung 
Get your yen-yang going and submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q, ND,/N 46556 

Task Force on Cultural Diversity 
Interim Report to the President 
January 28, 1992 Paid Observer Advertisement page 1 
1. Introduction 

The Task Force on Cultural Diversity met for the first time in August and developed a listing of issues and concerns. An analysis of these concerns, based on their importance in the opinion of the members of the Task Force, led to the establishment of three committees, namely, the Committee on Atmosphere, Culture and Environment, the Committee on Policies and Structures, and the Committee to Review the 1987 Provost's Report on Minority Students (The Hatch Report). 
From the beginning of November through the end of the first semester, the members of the Task Force met and worked in three committees. 
A summary of the work to date of each committee follows. It is the intention of the Task Force on Cultural Diversity to present a fmal report which will contain recommendations in the form of an action plan with regard to cultural diversity at the University of Notre Dame, by May, 1992. 
2. The Committee on Atmosphere, Culture and Environment 
The committee set the following goals for its work: 
• 
to compile information concerning the climate of cultural diversity at the University; and, 

• 
to develop and implement an instrument to communicate to students what is being done and to listen to the concerns, perceptions, and suggestions of the students concerning the state of cultural diversity at the University. 


In order to accomplish these goals, the committee members invited residents of each hall to participate in open hearings that were arranged in cooperation with the Office of Student Affairs and Residence Life and the Hall Presidents' Council. A brief introduction at the beginning of each open hearing was developed to offer information about the work and progress of the Task Force to the participants. 
Questions were developed to promote discussion between the members of the Task Force and the students regarding issues of cultural diversity at the University in general and within each specific residence hall in particular. Rectors and assistant rectors were not present at the hearings in an attempt to promote the freest exchange possible. A special hearing was held with rectors. 
In addition to these hearings, the committee scheduled meetings with the Black Cultural Arts Council, the Hispanic-American Organization, the League of United Latin­American Citizens, and the Native­American Students at Notre Dame group. It was not possible to profit greatly from these meetings because of time constraints and scheduling difficulties among other reasons. 
Each residence hall was sent an invitation, and the four student organizations were visited during regularly scheduled meetings. The hearings began on November 12, 1991 and ended on December 12, 1991. Eighteen hearings were completed before the end of the semester. Hearings that were not completed during the fall semester will be rescheduled for the spring semester. 
In those hearings that did take place, many students and rectors responded that they enjoyed the opportunity to engage in such dialogue and hoped that there would be other similar opportunities for dialogue in the future. 
Soma Student Responses from 
the Haarinlll Held to Data 
Before offering a summary of some of the responses from those present at the hearings, an important caveat is in order. 
An Important Caveat 
The hearings took place during the last weeks of the semester which is a busy time for students. Attendance by students at the hearings was voluntary, and numbers ranged from a low of ten to a high of thirty. 
Several hearings had to be rescheduled. In many cases, the resident assistants formed a high percentage of students in attendance. Even though some minority students attended each of the residence hall hearings, it should be noted that a very small number of minority students participated in the hearings overall. 
It is likely that focus groups will be interviewed in order to increase the reliability, validity, and quality of the responses gathered in the open hearings. 
The responses given by the students in all residence halls combined follow. A response is included if it appeared more than five times in the hearing reports submitted by committee members. 
Human Environment 
• 
There is considerable homogeneity among the student population. 

• 
Minority students are not adequately informed about the atmosphere, culture and environment at Notre Dame before coming. 

• 
The percentage of minority students, faculty and staff is critical to achieving a climate of cultural diversity. 


Educational Environment 
• 
Efforts should be made to educate the faculty on issues pertaining to cultural diversity, especially sensitivity training and curriculum design. 

• 
The curriculum should reflect the University's desire to achieve cultural diversity. 


Social EnVirom111nt 
• 
Minority groups, though not only they, tend to separate themselves from other students, especially in the dining rooms. 

• 
White students hesitate to initiate dialogue with African American students for fear of offending them. 

• 
More efforts to provide information and facilitate dialogue among all the students are needed. 

• 
Most dialogue at the University in matters relating to cultural diversity take place informally, and usually in the residence halls. 


Athletic EnVironment 
• 
Many students assume that male African American students on campus are athletes. 

• 
Non-varsity athletics and interhall competition facilitate important interaction between students who are ethnically and culturally diverse. 

• 
Varsity athletes tend to separate themselves from other students. 


Other Maners 
• 
It is important for the University to define "cultural diversity." 

• 
Policies and structures that are in place to create a climate conducive to cultural diversity are not known by the members of the University community. 

• 
There are few educational opportunities available for students with regard to issues of cultural diversity. 


Physical Environment 
• 
The physical environment at Notre Dame does not interfere with the University's goals in promoting cultural diversity. 

• 
A multi-cultural center would be another source of separation. The funds for such a center might be better utilized in programming and faculty recruitment. 


Additional Hearings 
Because of the small number of students interviewed and the committee's desire to hear and appreciate the points of all students, much work remains before responses to date can be considered either reliable or representative. 
The committee will meet in mid­January to schedule additional hearings, and to decide what other groups should be visited in order to gather more information concerning the climate of cultural diversity at Notre Dame. It will be important to reschedule hearings with the minority gr4lups mentioned above. 
Finally, the possibility of scheduling visits to other educational institutions with successful cultural diversity programs will be discussed. 
3. Committee on Poli­cies and Structures 
The committee began by analyzing the mission statements of the University in order to conduct interviews with several key individuals who are most closely involved in the areas of faculty and staff recruitment, minority student retention and undergraduate and graduate student fmancial aid. 

The committee is pursuing a two­fold approach. The frrst objective is to identify the current University structures and policies as they relate to issues of affirmative action and cultural diversity. Secondly, it is the intention of the committee to focus on a number of specific issues as a measurement of the University's commitment to and successful attainment of a culturally diverse and responsive environment. 
It is the committee's belief that the University's commitment to issues of affirmative action and cultural diversity must be systematic and all-encompassing. Towards that view, the committee is currently reviewing all University mission statements and policies to see how they incorporate a commitment to cultural diversity. Where appropriate, the committee hopes to offer specific suggestions for revisions. 
The committee has requested 
approximately 150 departments 
and units throughout the University 
to explain briefly their suggestions 
as to how such an objective might 
be accomplished through new 
policies and structures. 
To date, the committee has 
received 21 responses from 
academic units and 14 responses 
from support units. 
In addition to questionnaires, the committee is talking individually with all vice presidents, provost, and academic deans in an effort to ascertain exactly where the current structures exist and from where the current policies emanate. 
After reflection upon the statements of the various departments and units, the committee hopes to make recommendations to the President about any needed enhancement of accountability for these issues within the overall structure. The committee also hopes to make specific recommendations about the ways in which departments can enhance written statements of commitment to cultural diversity. 
The members of the committee believe it is important to analyze current University efforts in the following areas. 
Faculty and stall recruitment 
and retention 

• 
collection of statistics 

• 
review of staff and academic departmental affirmative action plans analysis of status and mandate of staff and academic affirmative action committees 


Support services lor minority
students 

• 
analysis of current support services and program of academic enhancement 

• 
Balfour-Hesburgh Program 

• 
AEtna 


• 
Ron McNair Postbaccalaureate Program 


Task Force on Cultural Diversity: lntel'im Repol't to the Pl'esident 
• 
Program to Promote Minority Enrollment in Graduate Studies 

• 
analysis of current status, especially improvements since the recommendations of The Hatch Report 


(PMEGS)  
Student  financial  aid  at  
undergraduatelevels  and  graduate  

Curriculum 
• during the first part of the spring semester, the committee will distribute a random questionnaire to ascertain the extent to which students feel their current courses treat issues relating to race, gender and class, and to determine the extent to which students feel a need for more courses, or required courses which address these issues. 
Current harassment policies and 
procedures 
• the committee intends to examine closely and to analyze the effectiveness of current procedures which respond to various kinds of harassment 
From its reflections on these focus areas and an up-to-date understanding of the current reality, the committee expects to be able to make concrete recommendations for the enhancement of our University atmosphere. An attempt will be made to identify offices and individuals responsible for promoting and developing cultural diversity at Notre Dame. 
4. Committee to Review the 1987 Provost's Report on Minority Students (The Hatch Report) 
The committee decided to review the February 22, 1988 press release that presented the University's plan which was developed in response to The Hatch Report (Provost's Committee on Minority Students). and to interview the individuals listed in the press release in order to obtain information about the plan's success. Because of the importance of this document in the development of a more culturally diverse institution, the text of the press release follows, in italicized print. Evaluative comments made by those persons interviewed are included within the text of the press release. 
Minority Report Press Release 
Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., President of the University ofNotre Dame, announced a university­wide plan to increase minorities at a luncheon held February 22nd on the 14th floor of the Hesburgh Memorial Library. Timothy O'Meara, university provost, who appointed a committee last fall to advise him on strategies and goals for the plan, remarked that the committee's report had formed the basis for extensive discussion by the university administration before the plan was presented to Father Malloy with a recommendation for immediate implementation. Present also for the announcement were members of the Committee on Minority Students. A press conference immediately followed the luncheon. 
Preamble 
In November, 1986 Provost Timothy O'Meara of the University of Notre Dame appointed the Committee on Minority Students to advise him on strategies for enhancing all aspects of the presence of minority undergraduate and graduate students at the University. The Committee presented its report to the Provost in June 1987. During the following months the report received intensive study and discussion by the officers of the University and the Provost's Advisory Committee, a group which includes the deans of the five colleges and the Freshman Year, as well as the Vice President for Advanced Studies. 

• 

Recognizing that a pattern of decreasing minority enrollments (particularly Blacks and Hispanics) in higher education is a national problem with far-reaching implications for both students and faculty, The University of Notre Dame is nonetheless committed to a serious effort to create a Notre Dame community enriched by increased minority presence among students, faculty and administration. 
To accomplish this goal, the 
University has established a 
comprehensive plan. The basic 
components ofthis plan include the 
appointment of a senior 
administrator responsible for its 
general implementation; the 
naming ofcoordinators with special 
minority responsibilities in specific 
areas; the recruitment and 
retention of significant numbers of 
additional minority 
undergraduates, graduate students 
and faculty; the implementation of 
support systems to sustain 
minority students on campus; the 
development of an environment 
supportive and friendly to an 
increased minority presence on this 
campus; the dedication of special funds to assist in achieving these goals. 
Compl'flllensive Plan -Details 
. I. fldministrative Organ­
zzatwn 
A. Senior Administrator ­Father Oliver Williams, C.S.C., Associate Provost, has been designated the senior administrator responsible for the implementation of all aspects of this plan. 
Father Oliver Williams, C.S.C., associate provost, provided a helpful report that has been distributed to all task force members. He noted that progress has been made in all areas, except graduate enrollment. He believes that he has had sufficient time to coordinate all aspects of the University's plan. The nature of this process is slow; there is not much more that could have been done during the past three and one-half years. 
Father Williams has special concerns about the retention of minority undergraduates and wants their graduation rate to rise to the Notre Dame average. He also has hopes that the University Affirmative Action Committee will assist in the successful hiring of faculty and staff from diverse backgrounds. He believes that progress is beginning to be made in non-academic support and services for students. Improvements in this area should also help produce higher graduation rates. 
B. Minority Plan Co­ordinators -Within each college of the University an administrator has been identified who will be supervising and implementing the 
advisory system for minority 
students as well as the 
development and utilization of 
adequate support systems to assist 
these students in their courses of 
study. In addition, they will confer 
with minority students. faculty, and 
other coordinators in an effort to 
create an appropriate environment for productive life and study. 
In the area of student life, responsibilities will include identifying, implementing and inaugurating programs designed to achieve a genuinely integrated cultural diversity in campus activities .... 
Office of Minority Student AOairs 
The office has been slow in growing to match the increase in 
minority undergraduates.  The  
creation  of  an  assistant  vice  
president's  position  and  the  

addition of an assistant director's position in the office, with the hope that an additional assistant director position may be created at some time in the future, indicates that adequate personnel will be present to implement cultural diversity programs for all students. 
Differences in social life and religious practice often lead to misunderstandings and alienation. A lack of diversity often leads to uncomfortable situations in the classroom in which a minority student is expected to represent a race or culture. 
In the area of alumni activities and programs, special attention to minority involvement in Notre Dame clubs throughout the nation will be the task of Charles F Lennon, Jr.. , Executive Director, Alumni Office. Finally, serving as consultant will be Howard Adams, Executive Director of the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering, who is resident on this campus. 
Alumni Relations 
There has been much success in this area. 1\vo recent alumni, one African American and one Hispanic have been employed on the staff of the Alumni Association until recently. They were replaced in these staff positions by two African Americans. One of those who left the office is now employed in the Office of Student Affairs at the University. 
A new group, Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BAND) has been formed and is active. BAND is receiving good support from the Association, and in turn, hopes to give good support to current students and alumni. This group has already assisted several administrative offices in finding candidates for job openings. 
Initial interest has been expressed in a Hispanic and a Latin American alumni network. The indications are that the Alumni Association is developing a successful structure that allows for diversity and harmony. 
11-Undergraduate
Students 
A. Admissions 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will set as its goal a minority presence of at least 15 % in each freshman class by 1992. To attract and retain proportionally high numbers of Black, Hispanic, American Indian, and Asian American students, the Office of Financial Aid will need considerable additional resources. As a significant step toward this end, the University has established a 12 million dollar endowment fund for minority scholarships. Included in this amount is a million dollar L. 

G. Ballour Foundation Endowment, a 1. 8 million dollar Gillen Endowment and a one million dollar pledge from John Kaneb of Boston, the latter two designated specifically for Hispanic students. 
The enrollment of American minority students has reached the stated goal, 15 % of the freshman class by 1992. This has been accomplished for each freshman class since 1988. The office of undergraduate admissions has continued to strive for the 17 % enrollment goal stated in The Hatch Report. The difference between the 15 % level and 17 % goal is to be found in African American and American Indian enrollment. While there have been gains in both categories, the goals have not been met. 
Financial aid packaging and the University's environment for these students are both areas that limit progress. An improved campus environment would be helpful in the long run because it would produce greater student satisfaction. Satisfied students and alumni are the best recruiters of future applicants. Improved financial aid packages would help both admission and retention, but the creation of the best possible educational environment for students of diverse backgrounds is the key to long-term success. 
Undergraduate financial aid 
The University has provided sufficient funds to meet the enrollment goal of the 1988 plan. These funds continue to be enhanced by bowl game revenues, growth in endowment and the allocation of some unrestricted gift resources. 
In 1990, a new financial aid plan was developed to provide the best possible aid packages to the largest possible number of students, with a special emphasis on assisting the neediest qualified students. Current freshmen and sophomores are on the plan. Those eligible for this plan are Notre Dame Scholars (top 1000 applicants, regardless of race) and Holy Cross grant nominees (mostly minority backgrounds). All these students are asked to complete a standard form to demonstrate their financial need which is the result of subtracting the family's projected contribution from the total cost of a year at Notre Dame. 
Once the need is determined, a package is prepared using these guidelines, which are annually reviewed and adjusted to meet changes in costs, resources, and applicable government regulations. The student provides some self­help through campus employment and loans. Additional need is met through scholarship money. Juniors and seniors are likely to carry higher loan totals because they are eligible for more Stafford money. 
This financial aid plan provides the stability absent at the time of The Hatch Report. The self-help component is larger than The Hatch Report or anyone else involved would prefer and is the reason why Notre Dame's aid packages are often less attractive than those of many other universities. 
...
Task Force on Cultural Diversity: lntel'im Repol't to the Pl'esident 
Academic Support Systems 

Energetic recruitment with well­funded financial aid packages alone will not assure the achievement of the minority program goals. Academic support systems are required to address minority retention. The Freshman Year has begun a program primarily for minorities interested in Science and Engineering. Plans for expanding and improving that program, currently funded by GTE. are already in process. 
In January 1988 the Freshman Year Office was awarded a grant of $1.25 million from the Balfour Foundation to develop and implement summer support programs for minority freshmen. The College of Engineering has developed a program (MEP) designed to enable minority students to achieve higher success rates in engineering. Organized and funded from the Dean's Office, it has a Director, with a secretary and a cadre of peer ad visors and tutors to assist in the work. In addition, the University allows for alterations in the Freshman Year course sequence to meet minority needs while at the same time maintaining academic quality required for competitive graduates. 
Support systems for minority students in all undergraduate colleges are receiving special attention in the current reexamination of advising systems. The college coordinators named above will have special obligations for actively pursuing these matters. The University also recognizes that academic support programs hinge on the active involvement of departmental faculty and will enlist their full support and cooperation in these efforts. 
Freshman Year of Studies 
The Balfour and AEtna summer programs have proven helpful in assisting the adjustment of some minority students to Notre Dame. A new pre-calculus course is in its first semester and may prove to be helpful to many students who wish to study engineering or science but who lack some of the algebra and trigonometry skills necessary to handle the required calculus courses. 
Next year, a person who specializes in assisting students with problem solving skills will be added to the staff. There is some hope for the development of a unified science course to better prepare students for the most rigorous biology, chemistry, and physics courses. There is also interest in developing study groups similar to the Cal-Berkeley model presented in The Hatch Report. The Freshman Year advising program seems to be effective in counseling students. However, there is a reluctance among freshmen and their parents to be enrolled in the pre-calculus course or others that seem to differ from the "normal" academic pattern. Some mistrust is evident. 
Communication and coordination is good between and among the undergraduate colleges, but it can be improved. 
III. -Advanced Students 
A. Admissions 
Over and above its current aggressive recruitment of minorities, the Office of Advanced Studies will strive to double its minority enrollment by 1992 and to designate special funds for this purpose. In addition to the four Notre Dame Ethnic Minority Fellowships already in place. the OAS is currently negotiating with donors with plans to double that number for 88-89. The successful applicant will receive continuing support to the completion ofhis/her degree assuming satisfactory progress in the program. 

The Office of Advanced Studies will continue to fund recruiting/advising trips by appropriate Notre Dame faculty/administrators to selective traditionally black campuses seeking applicants from all advanced programs. The Graduate School will also persist in its special efforts to offer scholarships to students from Xavier University (New Orleans) and Prairie Vzew A & M University (Texas). A minority administrator in the Graduate School is also being sought to work specifically in these areas. 
B. Academic Support Systems 
Special attention to academic advising and monitoring in the departments and program is also required at the graduate level. Department chairmen have special responsibility for overseeing the progress of their minority candidates and are expected to take appropriate steps to see that the students are informed and incorporated into departmental matters. The M.B.A Program and the Law School are also developing similar support systems for minority students. 
Graduate admissions, financial 
aid and related issues 
The goal of doubling the minority population in the graduate school by 1992 is not going to be reached. In fact, there has been little progress. The school has increased its number of fellowships and has begun to develop relationships with historically black undergraduate institutions such as Xavier of New Orleans and Clark-Atlanta. A minority administrator was added to assist recruitment bD.t he is no longer with the University after suffering severe injuries in an assault while visiting his hometown last year. A replacement will be named soon. 
Some enrollment gains were noted for 1991, but the pool of potential students in many fields is small and Notre Dame's location and campus environment place it at a disadvantage. 
There is an interesting trend to be noted: the English Department with some noted African-American faculty is beginning to attract African-American graduate students. This contrasts with the decrease in Hispanic graduate students in sociology since the retirement of an important Hispanic sociologist. 
Clearly, faculty hiring success would pay great dividends in creating graduate programs where minorities would feel welcome. This is crucial because so much of graduate admission and retention depends on the faculty of each department. Overall, those graduate students who do choose to enroll are successful. 
An American minority enrollment of 6 % would be a realistic goal given the current resources and campus environment. The 30 % enrollment of foreign students represented considerable diversity and reflected the larger pool of such students as applicants for our graduate programs. 
Law School admissions and 
financial aid 
The Law School has met the faculty hiring goal of the 1988 press release by hiring one African­American woman and two 3/4 time women. Minority student enrollment in the J.D. program has increased among African­Americans (seventeen to twenty­two), Asian-Americans (sixteen to twenty), and Hispanics (twenty­three to thirty-five) during the past four years. Further gains could be achieved with increased scholarship money. 
Once enrolled in the Law School, students have generally succeeded. There is no formal support program, although there have been workshops on diversity issues. 
M.B.A. admissions and financial 
aid 
There has been no progress in enrolling minority students in the 
M.B.A. programs. The current enrollment is 4 %. A lack of financial aid is a major obstacle to increasing the representation. There is also a need for a person who would perform both recruitment and retention activities. 
IV-Faculty 
The University has designated Academic Year 1988-89 as a kickoff year in a renewed effort to attract qualified minority faculty candidates. 
For each ofthe next few years the minority faculty situation will be reviewed and funds will be designated so that the colleges will be able to hire available minority candidates, even without regard to specialty fields. 
The University will devote effort and expense beyond the normal hiring procedure to expand the pool of minority applicants to the faculty. Immediate goals for minority hiring have been set for the four colleges and the Law School as follows: Arts and Letters, 4 new faculty; Science, 4 new faculty; Business Administration, 2 new faculty; Engineering, 2 new faculty; and Law, 2 new faculty. 
These positions are primarily targeted for Blacks, Hispanics or American Indians. However, because the pools of such candidates in some fields are quite small. perhaps even non-existent, under certain circumstances the funds can be used also for hiring women or Asian Americans in specific fields in which there is a significant need for them. 
College or Arts and Letters 
While the College has met the hiring goals of the 1988 press release by hiring several African­American and Asian-American faculty, those goals were too modest and the success is in danger of being eroded by the current budget situation. 
The College has added another African-American assistant dean who advises students of all backgrounds. Faculty hiring, funding for academic support services,and a budget for inviting eminent minority scholars to campus are important needs. 

College or Business 
Administration 

The College has met the faculty hiring goal of the 1988 press release by hiring one African­American woman, one Hispanic man, and one Asian man. TWO other women have been added as well. 
The College has implemented programs such as minority graduate students and community professionals working as role models and unofficial advisors for undergraduates. A third counselor is being added to the staff of the College. 
College or Engineering 
The College has met the faculty hiring goal of the 1988 report by hiring several women. There has been a notable improvement in the retention of minority students from 25 % to 50 %. This success is the result of a comprehensive plan which deserves detailed examination: 
• 
raised over$ 100,000 in outside funding for the Minority Engineering Program (MEP) 

• 
hired a full-time director this year who is supported by a two year grant 

• 
published a newsletter for students in the program and first year students considering engineering 

• 
established a tutoring program 

• 
took students on field trips to engineering sites 


Some problems remain including a need for University funding for the director's position and summer programs, a van for field trips, the addition of role models to the faculty, and leadership to overcome the apathy toward MEP displayed by faculty and other students. 
College of Science 
The College has met the faculty hiring goal of the 1988 report by hiring two Hispanics, one Asian­American and several women. There has been good success in retaining minority students in the College, but many potential students do not make it through the introductory math and science courses in the freshman year program. There is a need to communicate goals to the entire academic community, faculty and students. 
Perhaps the model of Xavier in New Orleans will be studied. Also, there should be a coordination of Freshman Year and College efforts. 
V-Grou;th ofIntegrated
Communzty 

The above efforts to increase the numbers of minorities at Notre Dame will do much to achieve the objective of a rich and diverse community of minority and majority. But specific actions must occur concurrently: 
A) an increase in minorities among hall personnel; this goal should be facilitated by the increase of minority students in the graduate and professional schools who will then qualify for Hall Stall positions. 
There has been an increase in 
-
------------~---------­
Task Force on Cultural Diversity: lntePim RepoPt to the PPesident 
minority residence hall personnel. One Hispanic law student is serving as an assistant rector and at least ten minority undergraduates are among the 160 resident assistants. 
B) the development ofprograms such as "Multi-Cultural Week" to educate and inform all members of the University community of the important contributions of minorities. 
"Multicultural Week" activities have been presented each year and others have been scheduled throughout the academic year. The student government council responsible for these programs has been a good forum for communication. 
C) the utilization offaculty in addressing the issue of racism both academically and practically on this campus. 
Faculty do not seem to have been utilized in addressing racism either academically and practically, except for last summer's Ford Foundation program. 
D) the involvement ofstudents­both minority and majority-in recognizing their responsibility for educating each other on issues ofthis nature. 
There have been a number of multicultural events organized by student government, including outside speakers. Beyond these efforts, there have been only a few formal student attempts to educate each other by discussing topics involving racism. 
E) the incorporation of Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns in programmatic planning. 
The Center for Social Concerns has been involved in several efforts including panel discussions, assisting the Community of Caring program in the South Bend schools, and working with the Northeast Neighborhood group. 
Campus Ministry brought the late Sister Thea Bowman to campus, sponsored six ecumenical prayer meetings during each of the last two years, worked with campus Bible study groups, and provided prayer space for Muslim students. 

F) the search for outstanding minority persons to serve on University advisory councils and boards. 
Outstanding minority persons have been added to University advisory councils and boards. This process is continuing. 
G) the development of a strategic plan of public relations to demonstrate the University's commitment to this plan and its implications. 
A strategic plan of public relations to demonstrate the University's commitment to diversity has not been established. 
Vl -Special Year of Cultural Diversity 
In an effort to highlight the University's commitment to this comprehensive plan and all its aspects, the University has designated Academic Year 1988-89 as "The Year of Cultural Diversity. ·· During this time full-scale pastoral. academic and social programs will be mounted in order to raise the level of consciousness of all members of the Notre Dame community to the importance of minorities in American life and culture. Finally, the Provost will sponsor a Distinguished Lecture Series inviting minorities who are leaders in their fields to deliver addresses on their specialties. Such an all-encompassing plan, if successful, will lay effective groundwork for a continuing rich and diverse community at the University ofNotre Dame. 
The Committee on the Year of Cultural Diversity judged the "Year" to be successful. 
Recommendations of the Committee to Review the 1987 Provost's Report on Minority Students 
The committee has proposed for discussion and action by the Task Force, the recommendations which follow. 
1. Notre Dame needs to include in its mission statement a commitment to becoming a community of harmonious cultural diversity. Page seven of The Hatch Report provides an eloquent statement of the rationale for such a commitment: grounded in educational, religious, and civic virtues. 
2. This commitment must be communicated clearly to each segment of the University. One way 
to  do  this  would  be  to  have  
University  leaders  visit  each  
academic  department,  each  

residence hall, each administrative unit, and each service department to explain the commitment and to have each unit commit itself to the pursuit of clear, challenging goals for which it would be held responsible. 
A report or press release that is read by only a few will not be an adequate way to unite our campus. 
3. The commitment must be sustained. The current "senior administrator" structure does not seem to be completely successful because there is little coordination of efforts and sharing of ideas among units. Better models should be investigated. 
One suggestion would be to have the Provost chair regular meetings at which a representative of each academic UHit would report on its progress, difficulties, and ideas. The Vice President for Student Affairs would do the same for all student affairs units and the Executive Vice President would do likewise for all remammg administrative and service units. 
4. 
Clear faculty and staff hiring goals must be highlighted. We have reached some modest goals. The success of the English Department in hiring African-American scholars indicates the positive effects that result. We should study other universities that have had notable success. 

5. 
Competitive financial aid packages seem to be important to every student recruitment effort. This area needs to be studied carefully because of financial and equity questions. 

6. 
The concept of a multicultural center needs to be studied carefully 



so that a clear presentation could be made of what it would be and how it would be used. 
7. The executive director of the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees in Engineering and Science is willing to serve more often as a consultant than has been the case up to now. Ways might be sought to see how this program, which sponsors students at 55 institutions but not at Notre Dame, can be of assistance. 
5. Conclusion of the Interim Report to the President 
The initial stages of the Task Force's work have been productive. Our efforts have revealed intricate combinations of successes, failures, frustrations, hopes, and challenges in the University's efforts to incorporate cultural diverseness into its Catholic character and other rich traditions. We continue our efforts fully aware that no simple, lock step solution exists. Each committee has been operating on a time line tailored for carrying out its activities: 
• 
The Committee on Atmosphere, Culture and Environment has laid the foundation for its work and only begun its efforts to achieve the widest possible range of response from students before it begins formulating its recommendations. 

• 
The Committee on Policies and Structures has also laid the foundation for its work by gathering data and suggestions from academic and administrative units of the University. At the same time the committee has continued to examine a wide-range of issues, including those identified in this report. 

• 
The Committee to Review the 1987 Provost's Report on Minority Students {The Hatch Report} has nearly completed its work and has begun to formulate recommendations to assist the other two committees. In the months ahead the committee will serve as the research and special assignment arm of the Task Force. 


Respectfully submitted, for the Task Force on Cultural Diversity. 

Members of the Task Force on Cultural Diversity 
Co-Chairs: 

Roland B. Smith, Jr., Ed. D., Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Michael E. Allen, Joseph 0. Blanco, Angie R. Chamblee, Deswood Etsitty, Nicole Farmer, Maria Fuentes, Mari lshubashi, Yolanaa Knight, Demetrius H. Marlowe, Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., Roger V. Mullins, Sharon L. O'Brien, Patricia A. O'Hara, Jean Porter, F. Clark Power, Kevin M. Rooney, Richard Ruiz, Max L. Siegel, Thomas G. Smith, Arvind Varma, Joseph R. Wilson, Kenya Johnson, secretary. 
Accent 
Tuesday, January 28, 1992 page 11 

Fact or 'Myth?' 
Shore's book examines the university and its future 
By JENNIFER SOUKUP 
Accent Writer 
There are many problems facing today's universities 
Grade inflation, sports taking precedent over academics, and monetary concerns are only some of the recent challenges to universities in the 1990s. 
Paul Shore, an assistant professor of Education at Saint Mary's has discussed these and many other concerns of universities in his new book, "The Myths of the University: Ideal and Reality in Higher Education." 
Published last month by University Press of America, Shore's book examines the "ideas that dominate the university." 
Included in these ideas is the ranking process used by agencies such as U.S. News & World Report used to compile lists of the top universities. Shore outlines the factors used to determine why one department pays its faculty more than another. 
According to Shore, for example, computer science instructors are generally paid more than philosophy professors. 
Not limited to problems concerning the faculty and administration, "The Myths of the University" also addresses student concerns. Shore argues that students should be writing 

fewer,  but  longer,  more  well­ 
researched  papers,  rather  than  
numerous  shorter  papers  in  

unconnected fields. 
He also spends time discussing the curriculum, both in theory and in reality, and examining the role of sports in today's university. 
"The Myths of the University" is the product of "18 years in a learning environment as either a student or a professor," though the writing and publishing took about three years. 
Shore completed his undergraduate studies at Louis and Clark College in Portland, Oregon, and received his masters at Yale and his doctorate at Stanford. 
He has also spent time studying in Europe and uses this experience to draw comparisons with the European university system, both historically and present day. Shore is now in his second year as a member of the Saint Mary's faculty. 
A self-proclaimed "student of the history of education," Shore has combined research, ideas, and personal experience to write a book that addresses some very pressing questions about the university and its future. 





Reed's latest focuses on death and change 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Magic and Loss 
Music Critic 
Lou Reed 
Lou Reed, the man who wrote the 
* * * * 
music especially for Marky Mark's smash hit, "Wildside," is possibly the 
(out of five) most versatile man in pop music. Not only do Reed's creations provide the his dying friends, as well. basis for funky-bunchy smashes, but "Dreamin"' is one of Reed's most they can be greatly introspective. powerful songs, a deeply personal 
Though I bought Magic and Loss statement of the loss he felt at a friend's expecting many remixes of Marky and death, while "Cremation" describes the Donnie Wahlberg's big hits, Louie Lou sense of past joy and present hardship has surprised us with an album totally experienced after the death of a friend. devoid of hip-hop. As with all Reed's albums, Magic and 
Instead, this old New Yorker takes us Loss flows like a good book, with a for a walk on the wild side of his mind. sequence in danger of corruption by CD 
Dedicated to two of Reed's friends shuffle play. who succumbed to cancer within the The album's mood is set by the short last year, Magic and Loss explores the instrumental "Dorita," whose change. The change of a man who fears, drawn out torture over which part of themes of death and change. mysterious sound gives the listener above all else, becoming like his you lives is very hard to take I To cure 
In times of death and loss, Reed's reason to pay close attention to each parents. So he takes a razor to his face you they must kill you ... " music has provided an outlet for track. and various other parts of his anatomy innumerable listeners. Magic and Loss However, instrumentals are not the in an effort to alter his appearance. Many of the uninitiated will listen to continues this tradition. reason to buy any Reed album. His Reed has often dealt with the Reed's work, either with the Velvet 
"Release me from this body I from this lyrics are always the high point of his frighteningly macabre throughout his Underground or as a solo artist, and bulk that moves beside me I Let me creations. On Magic and Loss, as well, career, an intriguing theme which few hear what seem to be the stream-of­leave this body far away," sings Reed in Reed's words are provocative and other artists approach intelligently. consciousness ravings of a deranged "Magician," a recital of a dying person's clever. However, from "The Gift" to "Harry's individual. desire to be taken from the pain. "Life's like a mayonnaise soda I And Circumcision," Reed has surprised and 
Similarly, "Power and Glory" deals life's like space without room I And life's entertained his listeners with tales of However, Reed's genius transcends with one's experience with divine power. like bacon and ice cream I That's what strange obsessions. the initial listening experience. Upon 
"I was captured by a larger moment I life's like without you." Another theme which Reed has further exposure to his music, one I was seized by divinity's hot breath." With these, the first words of Magic consistently tackled is that of drug use. learns that Reed's gift is in his Reed, as he has done throughout his and Loss, Reed verbalizes his emotions On Magic and Loss, Reed parallels the interpretation. Though he seems to career, expresses himself concisely and in layman's terms. As he has done radiation treatment received by his make no observation different from that concretely, while still allowing the throughout his 25-year career, Reed dying friends to the slow death endured of the common man, his verbalization, listener the opportunity to experience speaks to everyone, and keeps his by drug users. in such frank, personal and his or her own emotions. extraordinary insight apparent. "Now I have seen lots of people die uncompromising terms, is both unique 
Reed expresses his own feelings with "Harry's Circumcision" deals with from car crashes or drugs ... But this and unavoidable. 

page 12 
The Observer 

Super 'Skins return triumphantly 
HERNDON, Va. (AP) -The 
Super Bowl champion 
Washington Redskins flew 
home Monday to a noisy wel­
come from their fans as offi. 
cials prepared a huge victory 
celebration Tuesday for several 
hundred thousand people. 
"I think we've got the best 
fans." coach Joe Gibbs said as 
he stepped off a bus at 
Redskins Park to be greeted by 
about 1,500 cheering people. 
"They're always going to be 
there. 
"The team belongs to them." said Gibbs, who walked along a liM of fans held back by a fence. "I wish they all could have been on the trip with us." 
Offensive line coach Jim Hanifan added, "It's great to have fans like this." 
The players and coaches ar­rived at the team headquarters shortly after flying back to Washington from Minneapolis. Several players carried baby strollers and young children as they got off the buses. 

"I think there's a difference 
in our fans." Gibbs said. 
"Tickets are hard to get. We 
have sellouts every time. They 
know good football, and they 
know bad football." 
The Redskins defeated the 
Buffalo Bills 37-24 in 
Minneapolis on Sunday. 
The noontime rally in Washington on Tuesday will in-elude a band, Redskins players and coaches. city officials and speeches. 
"We expect a lot of faithful fans down here." said Arnold Goldstein, area superintendent for the National Park Service. 
"This will be the kickoff for the Redskins' efforts to. return to the Super Bowl and win.. Super Bowl 27," said Steven 
Rickman. acting director of the 
D.C. Office of Emergency Preparedness. 
fans to see, Goldstein said. 
Non-essential D.C. employees 
will be able to leave work for 
up to two hours to attend the 
rally, city officials said. D.C. 
public school students and fed­
eral employees won't. however. 
Washington-area retailers 
said they received their first 
shipments of Redskins memo­
rabilia marking this weekend's 
victory on Monday. 
Some suppliers began 1m­printing brightly colored but­tons, mugs, T-shirts and sweats shirts right after Sunday's game ended and continued throughout the night, said Myra Rodriguez. who sold items for Sportswon Inc. from a downtown hoteL 
''We'~e,,heen do.i well," RodrigUez said. business ·• • . up about 
percent last before . Bowl. 

A huge television screen nl.!Cl·;www, be set up several blotk& the stage to make it easier 
Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
Bruins defeat North Stars 3-2 
BOSTON (AP) -Vladimir 
Ruzicka's sixth goal in seven 
games, a slap shot from the top 
of the right circle with 3:06 left. 
gave the Boston Bruins a 3-2 
victory over the Minnesota 
North Stars on Monday night 
Minnesota had rallied from a 
2-0 deficit to tie the game with 
11:14 left on goals by Mike Craig and Basil McRae in a span of 1:50. 
Steve Leach, who scored Boston's first goal, set up the game-winner. He dropped a backhand pass to Ruzicka along the right boards near the Minnesota blue line. Ruzicka skated to his left and sent his 24th goal of the season over goalie Darcy Wakaluk's left shoulder. 
The Bruins are 6-1-1 in their last eight games. Minnesota lost its second straight game for the first time since Dec. 7-8. 
·craig had made the score 2-1 with his 11th goal of the season on a power play at 6:56 of the third period. Jim Johnson passed up the middle from his own end. Near the red line, Ulf Dahlen tipped it ahead to Craig. who went in alone on goalie Andy Moog and beat him with a backhander from the left corner of the crease. 
McRae tied the game at 8:46 with his third goal of the season and first point since Dec. 28. lie missed a check on Stephane Quintal, crashed into the boards near the left side and fell. But Quintal's pass into center ice was stolen by Dave Gagner. He fed McRae, who beat Moog with a 20-footer to the near side. 
Leach gave Boston a 1-0 lead at 35 seconds of the second pe­riod with his 21st goal. It came on the first shot of a five­minute power play that was al­ready 4:08 old. Craig Janney passed the puck from the right corner across the crease and Leach popped it over Wakaluk. 
The Observer accepts class~ieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office. 
Classifieds 

309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day class~i&ds is 3p.m. All classifi&ds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  SPRING BREAK TO FLORIDA BEACHES. ENERGETIC  Downtown Mishawaka office for lease (studio, lawyers, doctors, etc.)  WANT TO SWITCH 2 THURS. KEENAN REVUE TIX FOR 2 SAT.  SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS London (5/20·6/19) and Rome  KERRY· light of my life.  
PROMOTER NEEDED. EARN  900 sq. 11.(4.85 per sq. ft.) $365 a  REVUE TIX. CALL MARK X1197  (6/14·7/13). Travel in Ireland.  Fire of my loins.  
FREE TRIPS AND CASH. CALL  month. Call272-6877.  Scottland, England, France,  1-4-3.  
USED TEXTBOOKS!  CMI AT 1-800-423-5264  Germany, Switzerland. and  -TIMMY  
Buy & Sell Books Pandora's Books  Bed & Breakfast for N.D./ St. Mary's  PERSONAL  Northern Italy. Courses in bio. business. education, history,  
3 blks. from ND  $40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and  families. 2 bedrooms, private bath.  photography. poly sci, Italian, soc.  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY,  
233-2342110-5:30 M-Sun  TV Scripts. Fill out simple  Ten minutes from campus. Safest  INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE.  Organizational meeting FEB. 17,  GABSTER!I! WE LOVE YOU II!  
"like/don't like" form. EASY I Fun,  neighborhood in area 324-2626.  Good rates. Save Money. Call me  6:30pm. Carroll hall (SMC). For  -SESS, Dl. AND NELLDOG  
relaxing at home. beach, vacations.  for a quote 9:30-6:00,  info call Prof. Black 284-4460  
Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24  289-1993. Office near campus.  (office) or 272-3726 (home).  
INTERVARSITY  Hour Recording 801-379-2925  TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR  We've been helping to meet the  
CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP  Copyright #IN11 KEB  CAMPUS, SECURITY SYSTEM,  needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual  
WASHER & DRYER. 4 BDRMS, 9  SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER  START MAKING SPRING BREAK  students and their friends for almost  
IS OPENING THE BIBLE TO  MO. LEASE, 4·5 STUDENTS,  VACATIONSI  PLANS!!!  20 years. Write us with your  
UNDERSTAND BASIC  YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK  DEPOSIT REQUIRED. 259-7801  Jamaica, Bahamas including  ...take a Bahamas cruise-6 days on  questions or suggestions.  
CHRISTIAN BELIEFS  TO LIVE! DO IT RIGHT! SPRING  OR 255-5852 FOR MORE INFO!  airfare. great hotel, and much more  Grand Bahama lsland+cruise+hotel  CONFIDENTIALITY  
BREAK IN JAMAICAICANCUN,  from only $599. Buy from the #1  only $279  GUARANTEED I  
ALL ARE INVITED TO COME & SHARE IN THIS FELLOWSHIP  FROM $429! INCLUDES HOTEL. AIR, TRANSFERS.  FOR SALE  name you trust for quality vacations. FOUR SEASONS  ...make a run for the border-go to Cancun. Includes rdtrp air+hotel for  Gl!@/SMC, Box 194, Notre Dame,  
WITH ND/SMC STUDENTS  SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426­ 1-800·331-3136.  only$ $499  IN 46556  
ON TUESDAYS AT 7:30  7710.  ...or chill in Jamaica, mon  
AT SEIGFRIED CHAPEL  Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a  
Notre Dame Cook. $3.  Also: South Padre and Panama City  
FOR MORE INFORMATION  SPRING BREAK '92. Daytona,  M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml  TOP 10 REASONS WHY  for $199 and $99  Monk: selective blindness for 15  
CALL: KEVIN X1417  $149, Cancun $489, Bahamas  49120.  PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE  years makes me wonder: what  
SEAN 227-4436  $449.  PERFECT MAN:  Call LISA 283-4667  can't you see. now?-Michael  
Best prices & accommodations  
ROMANS 1:16  guaranteed!!! 1 (800) 724-1555 or  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  10. He sits quietly wherever you put  
236·5825 (24 hrs.)  89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50,  him and behaves.  EVERYONE WISH GABRIELLE  Why isn't your dorm a Sale Haven?  
ALTERATIONS AND  87 MERCEDES $100,65  9. He never even LOOKS at other  GONZALEZ A HAPPY 21ST B- Why isn't your class a Sale Haven?  
DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL  MUSTANG $50. Choose from  women.  DAY! I!  Why isn't your organization a Safe  
259·8684.  FOR RENT  thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Hour Recording Reveals Details  8. You can make him look any way you want-and yes-you can even  Haven? Take care of yourself and your friends: do something about it!  
TYPING AVAILABLE  801-379·2929 Copyright#  control his size...  7 NIGHTS ON SOUTH PADRE  
287-4082.  1N11KJC  7.  ISLAND-CALL JAMES 277-9249  There will be a LULAC meeting  
HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO.  Black-Red-Yellow-White-(Biue  today in the Club Room at 7:30p.m.  
'  LOST/FOUND  WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL 287·2159.  Zenith Portable laptop, bklit.  ???) Any color you like! 6. He listens to all your problems  IF BIG BROTHER TOLD YOU THAT TWO PLUS TWO WAS  Also, LULAC thanks everyone who made the mixer on Friday night a  
w/batt, 2 3.5" drives, EC.  and doesn't judge you.  FIVE, WOULD YOU BELIEVE?  tremendous success. You're the  
FOUND: set of keys with key  Call Chris x1723  5. He doesn't make blond jokes (or  best.  
chain on the road between the  6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR  brunette jokes)  -----------------------------------------------­ 
War Memorial and Nieuwland  CAMPUS.SECURITY  (or any jokes at all!)  STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA  To that wonderful couple who  
around 7:30 p.m. on Thursday  SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992. 272·  '83 Ford FUTURA: 4-door,p.s.,  4. He's there whenever you need  Info on semester, year. graduate,  thought it appropriate to hook up in  
evening 1/23. Call x2822 to  6306  p.b., rear defog, runs good,  him.  summer and internship programs in  that oh, so romantic spot. the third  
claim.  looks good. $1,200 OBO  3. He smells good!  Perth, Townsville. Sydney, and  floor elevator lounge in LaFortune,  
259-0815  2. He never calls you a "dumb girl"  Melbourne. Programs start at  the Observer staff really enjoyed the  
HOUSE FOR RENT IN '92/'93  $3520. Call 1·800-878-3696.  entertainment you provided.  
If you lost a gray tweed jacket at  5BR, 2 BTH. 1800 SQ FT.  AND THE NUMBER ONE REASON  -----------------------------------------------­ 
Critter's wedding, call Twohy at  washer/dryer. recently remodeled,  BOOKS$$$-BUYING:  WHY PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE  Yo, Marten,  
277·4395.  near ND  Int. Dynamics, Fluids, Micro  PERFECT MAN:  The lizard King lives on! Down with  I would like to take this  
call 232-8256  SELLING: Diff Eq.. Solids.  1 . When you have PMS and you  the Crustaceans!  opportunity to tell you that  
El Circuits (EE222), West  feel like bashing someone's head  SuperBowl has a capital "B" in it, for  
LOST: GOLD RING WITH JADE  Civ. books too -Dan 1999  against the wall, he won't mind if  future reference. Otherwise, noce  
STONE. LOST ON JAN 22ND IN  FOR RENT: 3 BD HOUSE 1 BTH  you shmush him into smithereens!  COMING FEB. 8TH 1!1  job. Incidentally, who'se fingernail  
ROOM 23 OF HAYES-HEALY.  TRILEVEL ON 5 ACRES. 10 MIN.  7:30 PM. WASHINGTON HALL  clippings are those on the floor?  
HAS MUCH SENTIMENTAL  FROM CAMPUS $500.00 MO. 1ST  Need any house PAINTING done?  7TH ANNUAL MR. STANFORD  Also, you're quite the lively person  
VALUE. $REWARD.  LAST + SEC. 684-3778.  Experienced. quality painting  CONTEST.  at 2:30 in the morning, as I have  
CALL LISA AT X4832  at reasonable prices. Call Mark at  ATTENTION: SPRING BREAKERS  TO BENEFIT LOGAN CENTER  found out.  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  277·6578.  -R·  
LOST: Lavender glasses case 1/24  219-291·7153.  INTERESTED IN:  -----------------------------------------------­ 
in or around LaF/O'Shag  "MAIL CAMPAIGN, MAIL  
Call #3729.  ROOM TO RENT. USE OF All  Nintendo system w/cartridges. Best  CANCUN  CAMPAIGN": PRESENTATION BY  hey nil  
UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794  offer. Call Paul x1220  BAHAMAS  PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER  
WANTED  PAUL.  USAIR 58-Worcester MA March 7  SO. PADRE DAYTONA  AND PLACEMENT SERVICES TOMORROW AT 4:00 P.M ..  
$125 or make offr. Dan 232-0550  OR  NOTRE DAME ROOM,  
LAFAYETTE SQUARE  Soon I  PANAMA CITY  LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  Hello Eileen!  
$350.00/DAY PROCESSING  has 1·four bed and  ALL WELCOME.  It has been awhile since we have  
PHONE ORDERS! PEOPLE CALL  1-five bed unit avialable for next  CALL LANCE@ 271-1681  written. First off, we love the new  
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. 1-800·255·0242.  year Call NOW, they won't last long  TICKETS  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE  hair cut. You are definitely sporting the "European" look I You most  
232-8256  "MAIL CAMPAIGN, MAIL  CLUB  definitely look cultured on that  
EARN UP TO $2000/MONTH  MICH-ND B-BALL TICKETS  CAMPAIGN" PRESENTATION BY  If you missed our first  Parisian street corner. We are all  
PROCESSING HUD/FHA  NEEDED. 284·5084.  PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER  meeting, don't despair!  glad that you survived skiing the  
REFUNDS IN YOUR SPARE TIME  AND PLACEMENT SERVICES  Come to Stepan Center  Alps. You could probably have  
AS A U.S GOVERNMENT  Off·Campus Aprt. Open  TOMORROW AT 4:00 P.M. NOTRE  on Thurs. Jan. 30 from  done a lot of skiing on this campus  
TRACER. CALL THE U.S  Need to buy  DAME ROOM, LAFORTUNE  8-9:30 and we'll start  over the last two weeks! We have  
GOVERNMENT TRACERS  Furnished Studio with kitchen  ND vs MICH  STUDENT CENTER. ALL  over just for you! C'mon  had about 20 inches of snow since  
HOTLINE AT 303·949·2174. 24  if interested call:  B-Balltix  WELCOME.  CARPE DIEM!  we've been back to the Midwest.  
HOURS.  Matt at 283·1518  Pat#3360  Have fun! Love, Cyn and Melis  
-------------------------------------------­ 

SCOREBOARD
Tuesday, January 28, 1992 page 13 

NHL STANDINGS 

WALES CONFERENCE Patrick Dlvlalon w L T Pis GF GA Home Away
NY Rangers 31 17 2 64 
196 164 16-6-1 15-11-1 Washlng1on 29 16 4 62 212 164 14-8-1 15-8-3 Pittsburgh 25 18 5 55 216 
183 10-8-4 15-9-1 New Jersey 
23 16 7 53 177 143 15-7-3 8-8-4 NY Islanders 17 24 6 40 174 192 1G-11-4 7-13-2 Philadelphia 14 24 
9 37 133 165 9-8-6 5-16-3 

Adame Divllllon 
Montreal 31 4 161 19-6-1
16 66 116 12-1G-3 Boston 24 19 6 
54 172 168 16-7-2 8-12-4 Buffalo 19 8 174 13-7-4
22 46 177 6-15-4 Hartford 15 23 7 
37 138 157 8-9-7 7-14-0 Quebec 12 5 145 12-12-1
30 29 191 G-18-4 

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE Norrie Division W L T Pis GF GA Home Away Detro~ 28 14 6 62 
200 156 17-7-2 11-7-4 Chicago 23 18 10 56 170 152 17-6-4 6-12-6 St. Louis 21 20 8 50 173 
170 15-7-3 6-13-5 Minnesota 20 22 4 44 152 164 13-9-3 7-13-1 Toronto 14 30 5 33 128 
182 9-13-2 5-17-3 

Smythe Division 
Vancouver 28 13 7 63 
170 136 15-5-4 13-8-3 Calgary 21 7 168 173 11-7-4
21 49 1G-14-3 Winnipeg 20 22 9 49 
152 158 13-1G-2 7-12-7 

Los Angeles 19 19 10 48 175 10-7-7
186 9-12-3 Edmonton 18 25 7 43 
176 196 10-9-3 8-16-4 San Jose 11 4 125 9-12-2
34 26 214 2-22·2 

Saturday's Game Monday's Games Buffalo 4, Montreal 3 Boston 3, Minnesota 2 Boston 4, Hartford 4, tie Chicago 4, Calgary 3, OT Chicago 2, Minnesota 0 Pittsburgh 5, N.Y. Islanders 3 Tuesday's Games Quebec 2, Winnipeg 1 Minnesota at Hartford, 7:35p.m. Detroit 7, New Jersey 0 Washington at Philadelphia, 7:35p.m. Toronto 6, Philadelphia 4 Winnipeg at Pinsburgh, 7:35p.m. Vancouver 1, St. Louis 0, OT Boston at Quebec, 7:35p.m. Los Angeles 4, Calgary 3 St. Louis at Los Angeles, 10:35 p.m. San Jose 5, Edmonton 2 N.Y. Rangers at San Jose, 10:35 p.m. 
Edmonton at Vancouver, 10:35 p.m. Sunday's Games Washington 6, Pinsburgh 4 Wednesday's Games Buffalo 5, Winnipeg 2 Buffalo at Detro~. 7:35p.m Montreal 3, Hartford 1 New Jersey at Montreal, 7:35 p.m 
Quebec at Toronto, 7:35p.m. Chicago at Edmonton, 8:35p.m. 
COLLEGE HOOPS POLLS 


Wamsley 60 3
9. George Washington 13-2 1,104 6 
Fuhr 2298 146

10. Purdue 12-3 1,102 12 
Toronto (6) 2970 182

11. Vanderbi~ 13-4 1.044 13 
Young 727 40

12. Miami 17-1 984 14 
Barrasso 1955 119

13. Washington 12-4 803 10 
Pietrangelo 225 20

14. W. Kentucky 12-4 786 16 1. Maryland (67) 2. Virginia (1) 3. Stanford (2) 
4. 
Tennessee 

5. 
Iowa 

6. 
Stephen F. Austin 

7. 
Mississippi 

8. 
Penn St. 


NHL GOALTENDER STATS 
Record Pis Pvs 16-1 1,747 1 

Wakaluk 685 46 16-1 1,667 2 
Minnesota (6) 2720 161 14-1 1 ,612 3 
Draper 637 33 13-2 1,543 4 
Malarchuk 14 79 84 14-1 1,461 5 
Puppa 861 56 15-1 1,390 7 
Buffalo (4) 2985 177 17-1 1,336 8 
Potvin 184 7 14-4 1,218 9 
Reese 413 20 

15. Clemson 12·5 720 15 
School (First

16. Houston 14-3 716 11 Rank place votes) Record 
17. Hawaii 13-2 557 17 18. SW Missouri St. 14-2 551 19 
1 Duke (64) 14-0 19. Texas Tech 14-2 426 25 
2 UCLA 14-0

20. Kansas 14-3 369 22 21. California 12-3 343 21 
3 Oklahoma St. 18-0 22. Nonhwestern 8-6 146 18 
4 Indiana 14-2

23. Nonh Carolina 13-3 132 25 24. Alabama 13-4 108 
5 Kansas 14-1 25. West Virginia 13-2 104 
6 Connecticut 15-1

Others receiving votes: Long Beach St. 92; Georgia 87; N. Carolina St. 84; Florida St. 61; 
7 Arkansas 17-3 Auburn 53; Georgetown 41; Vermont 39; LSU 38; 
8 Missouri 14-2

UC Santa Barbara 30; Creighton 27; N.C. Charlene 27; Connecticut 18; Montana 18; Rutgers 
9 Arizona 13-3 17; Ala.-Birmingham 16; Lamar 16; Nebraska 16; 
10 Ohio St. 12-3

Southern Cal 16; St. Mary's, Calif. 15; Toledo 13; 
N. IIJinois 11; Oregon 10; Bowling Green 8; DePaul 
11 North Carolina 14-3 8; Georgia Tech 7; La SaiJe 7; S. Illinois 7; 
12 Syracuse 14-2

Wisconsin 5; Brigham Young 4; Michigan St. 4; Mo.-Kansas C~y 4; UNLV 4; Oklahoma 4; Texas 3; 
13 Michigan St. 13-2 Xavier 3; Arkansas St. 2; Old Dominion 2; 
14 Kentucky 14-4

Washington St. 2; Arizona St. 1; UCLA 1. 15 Michigan 11-4 16 Tulane 15-1 17 N.C. Charlotte 13-2 18 Oklahoma 12-3 19 Texas-EI Paso 16-1 20 Georgia Tech 14-5 21 UNLV 17-2 22 Alabama 15-4 23 Florida St. 12-4 24 louisville 11-4 Southern Cal. 13-3 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, You WON'T GET THE LETTEI~S. 
miKII
!DUCATIONAL GROUP 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273·1866 

WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
(Ef1l)ty-net goals In parentheses) 

Dlv  Rot  MP 2579  GA 89  
11-8-0  Melanson  492  22  
14-8-0  Racicot  20  1  
13-11-2  Montreal (4)  3101  116  
8-8-4  Mclean 2539  105  4  
7-9-3  Gamble  379  31  
4-12-3  Vancouver (0)  2923  138  
BeHour 1662  70  4  
Hasek  509  22  
16-7-2  Wahe  877  54  
11-6-3  Chicago (3)  3051  149  
7-1G-3  Essensa  1756  82  
7-12-4  Beau regard  873  4 7  
6-1G-2  T abaraccl  463  25  
O'NeiJI  13  1  
Winnipeg (3)  3116  158  
Billington  939  43  
Div  Terreri  1847  100  
12-5-2  New JerMy (0)  2797  143  
9-8-4  Riendeau  27  0  
7-1G-3  Cheveldae  2777  148  
9-9-3  King  16  1  
6-11-2  Bester  31  2  
Millen  60  4  
Detroit (1)  2919  156  
15-6-3  Richter  1680  84  
1G-1G-2  Vanblesbrouck  1330  76  
6-9-5  N.Y. Rangers (4)  3018  164  
10-8-5  Beaupre  1656  83  
1G-12-4  Liut  1063  63  
8-14-3  Hrivnak  237  16  
Washington (2)  2961  164  
Moog  1974  106  
Benhiaume  125  7  
Lemelin  390  22  
DelGuidice  424  28  
Boston (3)  2918  166  
Joseph  2290  115  
Heben  329  21  
Riendeau  157  11  
Jablonski  209  20  
St. Louie (3)  2993  170  
Sldorkiewicz  1055  58  
Whitmore  1682  97  
Hartford (2)  2741  157  
Roussel  450  20  
Hextilil  1268  68  
Wregget  1139  73  
Philadelphia (4)  2868  165  
Reese  75  4  
Vernon  2393  131  
Wamsley  457  34  
Calgary (0)  2930  169  
Casey  2022  109  
0 3.00 0 


Pi«aburgh (4) 2914 183 Hrudey 1831 108Pts. Pvs. 

1,600 1,525 1,475 1,397 1,323 1,270 1,229 1,045 1,024 1,021 843 828 795 723 587 536 487 469 
464 
385 
381 
370 162 157 91 
Benhiaume 979 66 
Goverde 120 9 Loa Angeles (3) 2934 166 

1 
2 
Foster 135 7 
Ranford 2473 153 lng 430 33 

3 
4 
Edmonton (3) 3043 196 
Cloutier 1214 76 Tugnutt 1371 92 

5 
7 
Fiset 251 19 
Quebec (4) 2848 191 Lorenz 60 2 

9 
12 
Fitzpatrick 358 18 Weeks 1 032 62 Healy 1394 104 

11 
6 
N.Y. Jatandera (6) 2854 192 10 
lrbe 491 31 Hackett 1288 84 

13 
Myllys 875 68 14 
Havward 305 25 
San Jose (6) 2965 214

8 
16 21 19 17 
MEN'S TOP 25 RESULTS
23 18 
1. Duke (15-0) beat Clemson 112-73. Next: at 25 
No. 23 Florida State, Thursday. 
2. UCLA (14-0) did not play. Next: vs. Southern
15 
Cal, Wednesday. 
3. Oklahoma St. (18-0) did not play. Next: at 
Southern Math., Tuesday. 20 
4. 
Indiana (14-2) did not play. Next: vs. Purdue, Tuesday. 

5. 
Kansas (14-1) did not play. Next: at Marquene,Tuesday.


AP 6. Connecticut (16-1) beat Villanova 72-58. Next: 
vs. St. John's at Madison Square Garden. Saturday. 
7. 
Arkansas (17-3) did not play. Next: at Tennessee, Wednesday, Feb. 5. 

8. 
Missouri (14-2) did not play. Next: at No.3 Oklahoma State, Sunday. 

9. 
Arizona (13-3) did not play. Next: vs. Oregon. Thursday. 

10. 
Ohio St. (12-3) did not play. Next: at Illinois, Thursday. 

11. 
Nonh Carolina (14-3) did not play. Next: at No. 20 Georgia Tech, Sunday. 

12. 
Syracuse (14·2) did not play. Next: at Providence, Tuesday. 

13. 
Michigan St. (13-2) did not play. Next: vs. No. 15 Michigan, Wednesday. 

14. 
Kentucky (14--4) did not play. Next: vs. Mississippi, Tuesday. 

15. 
Michigan (11-4) did not play. Next: vs. No. 13 Michigan State, Wednesday. 

16. 
Tulane (15-1) did not play. Next: vs. Southern Miss., Thursday. 

17. 
N.C. Charlone (13-3) lost to Butler 87-84. Next: vs. No. 24 Louisville, Thursday. 

18. 
Oklahoma (13-3) beat Nebraska 79-76. Next: vs. No. 5 Kansas, Saturday. 

19. 
Texas-EJ Paso (16-1) did not play. Next: at Utah, Thursday. 

20. 
Georgia Tech (14-5) did not play. Next: vs. Coli. of Charleston, Tuesday. 

21. 
UNLV (17-2) did not play. Next: at Utah State, Thursday. 

22. 
Alabama (15-4) did not play. Next: at South Carolina, Tuesday. 

23. 
Florida St. (13-4) beat Florida 68-67. Next: vs. No. 1 Duke, Thursday. 

24. 
Louisville (11-4) did not play. Next: at Virginia Tech, Tuesday. 

25. 
Southern Cal (13-3) did not play. Next: at UCLA, Wednesday. 


so Avg w 
4 2.07 26 
2 2.68 5 
6 2.24 31 
2.48 26 9 
0 4.91 2 
4 2.79 28 
2.53 12 10 
1 2.59 8 
0 3.69 4 
5 2.93 22 
3 2.80 14 
1 3.23 4 
0 3.24 2 
0 4.62 0 
4 3.04 20 
2 2.75 11 
1 3.25 12 
3 3.07 23 
0 0.00 1 
1 3.20 26 
0 3.75 0 
0 3.87 0 
0 4.00 1 
2 3.21 28 
3 3.00 18 
1 3.43 13 
4 3.26 31 
1 3.01 16 
1 3.56 10 
0 4.05 3 
2 3.32 29 
1 3.22 17 
0 3.36 0 
0 3.38 4 
0 3.96 2 
1 3.41 23 
1 3.01 16 
0 3.83 2 
0 4.20 1 
0 5.74 2 
1 3.41 21 
0 3.30 5 
1 3.46 10 
1 3.44 15 
0 2.67 2 
1 3.22 5 0 3.85 7 1 3.45 14 0 3.20 0 0 3.28 18 0 4.46 3 0 3.46 21 2 3.23 15 0 4.03 5 2 3.55 20 1 3.11 4 0 3.41 10 0 3.90 5 1 3.56 19 0 2.28 0 1 2.91 1 0 3.00 1 1 3.81 12 2 3.68 14 0 3.30 7 1 3.65 16 0 5.33 2 1 3.77 25 0 3.54 11 0 4.04 7 0 4.50 1 0 3.80 19 0 3.11 1 1 3.71 15 0 4.60 2 1 3.86 18 0 3.76 5 1 4.03 6 0 4.54 1 1 4.02 12 0 2.00 0 0 3.02 2 0 3.60 9 0 4.48 6 0 4.04 17 0 3.79 2 0 3.91 5 0 4.66 3 0 4.92 1 
0 4.33 11 
L 13 
3 
0 
16 
7 
4 
13 
5 
1 
7 
18 
11 6 5 0 22 3 
13 16 
0 
14 
0 
0 
0 
14 
7 
10 17 
9 
6 
1 
16 12 
1 
1 
5 
19 12 
3 
2 
3 
20 10 13 23 
4 
12 
8 
24 
0 
16 
4 
20 15 
6 
21 
4 11 7 22 
2 
5 
0 
23 30 
4 
13 
1 
18 
8 
10 
1 
10 2 19 
4 
25 12 15 
3 
30 I 
4 4 
15 24 
3 
17 10 4 
34 
T 
4 0 0 4 
0 7 
1 4 
10 
4 4 1 0 9 1 6 7 0 6 0 0 0 6 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
0 4 4 1 0 1 6 8 0 0 0 8 3 4 7 
2 
4 3 9 1 6 0 7 4 0 4 3 3 
2 
8 1 1 0 3 5 0 5 0 5 9 1 0 
10 
0 7 0 7 3 2 0 5 0 0 
2 
4 6 3 0 1 0 
4 
IRISH-DAYTON BOX SCORE 
DAYTON (tl-9) 
Robenson 2-7 2-2 6, Hare 5-7 2-3 12, Shayok 2­
8 G-O 4, Dukes G-2 4-4 4, Richter 2-3 1-2 6, Sm~h 
1-2 3-3 5, Sicard 1-4 0-0 2, Daniels 4-5 1·2 9, 
Scrutchlns 1-5 0-1 2, Gaydosh 1·2 0-0 2, Coffee G­
1 o-o 0. Totals 19-46 13-17 54. 
NOTRE DAME (6--8) 
Ellis 6-6 5-7 17, Taylor 5-6 G-O 10, Tower G-4 0-0 0, Bennett 5-11 1-2 13, Sweet 7-13 4--4 18, Adamson 0-2 G-0 0, Boyer 1-1 G-1 2. Russel11-3 G­
o2. Williams G-1 G-0 0, Justice 0-0 1-2 1, Gilmore G-0 G-0 0, Tully 1-1 G-0 2, Cozen 3-6 G-0 7, Joe Ross 1-2 G-2 2, Jon Ross 1-1 0-0 2. Totals 31-57 11-18 76. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 40 Dayton 19. Three­point shooting-Dayton 3-12 (Robenson G-2, Hare 2-3, Dukes G-1, Richter 1-2, Sicard G-2, ScMchins G-2), Notre Dame 3-8 (Bennett 2-2, Sweet 0-1. Adamson 0-1, Williams 0-1, Cozen 1-3). Rebounds-Dayton 29 (Hare 7), Notre Dame 31 (Ellis 7). Assists-Dayton 8 (ScMchlns 3), Notre Dame 16 (Bennett 7). Turnovers-Dayton 25, Notre Dame 15. A--8,514. 
II there's a pain in your chest, be a painin the neck. Complain to adoctor. 
_._'"'"'"':.:.
@I Chest pain could 
be a s1gn of heart disease The sooner you see your doctor, the better your chances for life_ 
£*aAmerican HeartV Association WEllE FIGHTING FO< '.OUR LIFE 
N88189-15b (2Yis· w. X 3¥.!" d.) 

BASEBALL 
American League 
CLEVELAND INDIANS-Agreed to terms wlh 
Brook Jacoby, third baseman, on a minor-league 
contract. 
KANSAS CITY ROYALS-Agreed to terrTI! ~h 
Gary Thurman, outfielder, on a one-year contract. 
NEW YORK YANKEES-lnvhed Brien Taylor, 
Mke Witt, Royal Clayton. Mark Hunon and Mike 
Draper, p~chera; Klkl Hernandez. Dave Sax and 
Mike Stanley, catchers; Roben Eenhoorn. Andy 
Stankiewicz and Torey Lovullo, infielders; and 
Dion James, outfielder, to training caflll as non­
roster players. 
TEXAS RANGERS-Agreed to terms whh Lanoe 
McCullers, phcher, on a minor league contract ~h 
Oklahoma C~ of the American Association. 
National Laague 
CHICAGO CUBS-Nanned Brett Fischer streng1h and cond•ionlng coordinator and Garrett Giemont director of strength and oondnloning. lnvhed Jeff D. Robinson. Jamie Moyer, Steve Adkins. Jessie Hollins, Seen May and John Salles, p~chers; Jim Robinson and Man Wabeck, catchers; and Earl Cunningham and Fernando Ramsey. outfielders, to training caf1l) as non-roster players. 
HOUSTON ASTROS-Agreed to terms ~h Rob 
Murphy and Joe Beever, pnchers, Denny Walling, 
outfielder, and Ernest Riles, Infielder, on minor­
league contracts. 
NEW YORK METS-Named Vada Pinson rrinor league hitting coordinator. PHILADELPHIA PHILLES-Agreed to terms with Terry Mulholland, p~cher. on a one-year contract. SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Agreed to Bill Swift, p~cher, on a three-year contract. 
BASKETBALL National Basketball Association DALLAS MAVERICKS-Signed Tracy Moore, guard, to a second 10-day contract. 
FOOTBALL National Football League GREEN BAY PACKERS-Named Jon Gruden offensive assistant coach. PHOENIX CARDINALS-Named Bobby Jackson running backs coach and John Matsko offensive line coach. 
PITISBURGH STEELERS-Retained Dick Hoak, running backs coach. Named Ron Erhardt offensive coordinator and Steve Furness defensive line coach. Professional Spring Football League 
PSFL-Named Rich Berg director of public relations. 
MIAMI TRIBE-Nanned Mke Meisler general manager; Norb Ecksl assistant general manager; Bruce Sm~h director of public relations; Terry Derry marketing director; Michael GeHano director of ticket sales; Jeff Manln assistant marketing director. 
WASHINGTON MARAUDERS-Named David Aston director of public relations and Krls Crenwelge assistant director of public relations. 
NBA LEADERS 
Scoring 
G  FG  FT  P1s  
Jordan. Chi.  42  484  259  1244  29.6  
Wilkins, Atl.  41  421  293  1171  28.6  
K. Malone. Utah  42  413  323  1151  27.4  
Mullin, G.S.  37  399  178  993  26.8  
Drexler, Pon.  41  382  199  1022  24.9  
Ewing, N.Y.  40  396  165  957  23.9.  
Hardaway, G.S.  37  332  154  867  23.4  
Barkley, Phil.  36  294  232  837  23.3  
Pierce, Sea  40  338  232  926  23.2  
Robinson, S.A.  41  357  233  948  23.1  
Richmond, Sac.  39  336  164  895  22.9  
Daugheny, Clev. 36  283  231  797  22.1  
Miller, Ind.  43  303  262  927  21.6  
Pippen, Chi.  42  358  162  889  212  
Hornacek, Phoe. 43  351  156  908  21.1  
Olajuwon, Hou.  34  284  147  715  21.0  
Lewis, Bos.  42  357  161  877  20.9  
J. Malone, Utah  43  375  145  895  20.8  
Ellison, Wash.  35  287  149  723  20.7  
Worthy, LAL  38  327  125  782  20.6  
Field  Goal  Percentage  
FG  FGA  Pel  
Williams, Port.  172  284  .606  
Grant, Chi.  249  417  .597  
Daugheny, Clev.  283  492  .575  
Barkley, Phil.  294  513  .573  
Thorpe, Hou.  279  489  .571  
Robinson, S.A.  357  631  .566  
Rodman, Det.  174  314  .554  
Parish, Bos.  256  465  .551  
Perry, Phoe.  214  399  .536  
Edwards, Utah  227  426  .533  
Rebounding  
G  Cll  Del  Tot  Avg  
Rodman, Det.  42  251  481  732  17.4  
Wlllis,Atl.  41  234  416  650  15.9  
Mutombo, Den.  41  190  354  544  13.3  
Olajuwon, Hou.  34  116  311  427  12.6  
Ellison, Wash.  35  136  293  429  12.3  
Robinson, S.A.  41  149  345  494  12.0  
Seikaly, Mia.  42  171  325  496  11.8  
Anderson, Den.  41  172  309  481  11.7  
Johnson, Char.  42  175  310  485  11.5  
Barkley, Phil.  36  127  284  411  11.4  
Aaaiats  
G  No.  Avg.  
Stockton, Utah  43  604 14.0  
Johnson. Phoe.  42  401 9.5  
Hardaway, G.S.  37  341 92  
Bogues, Char.  42  362 8.6  
Adams, Wash.  36  302 8.4  
M. Williams, Ind.  42  349 8.3  
Jackson. N.Y.  39  313 8.0  
Richardson. Minn. 41  308 7.5  
Skiles, On.  36  264 7.3  
1. Thomas, Del.  39  284 7.3  


------------------------~------~-­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
lilt 
__/-1-t 
G 
E 
AP File Photo Former heavyweight champion Mike Tyson, shown here hitting Razor Rudduck below the belt, is set to face trial on charges of rape. 
Colts to name Marchibroda head coach 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) Indianapolis Colts general manager Jim Irsay remained in Minneapolis on Monday amid speculation his initial interview there with Ted Marchibroda was only a formality. 
The Colts could not approach Marchibroda, Buffalo's offen­sive coordinator, until the Bills' season officially ended, which it did in a 37-24 loss to Washington in Sunday's Super Bowl. 
Only two other candidates were in the running for the quasi-vacant Colts' coaching job. One of them was Rick Venturi, the team's former de­fensive coordinator who had served as head coach for the fi­nal 11 games after Ron Meyer was fired in October. 
But the Colts were believed to be looking for a specialist on offense, and Marchibroda's credentials as architect of the Bills' high-powered, no-huddle attack might be a hard-to-pass up opportunity for a team that ranked last in the NFL in rush­ing, scoring and total offense. 
The Colts' 1-15 record also was the worst in the league and, coupled with a trade with Tampa Bay last year, earned the Colts the top two picks in this spring's college draft. 
Irsay, whose father, owner Robert Irsay, fired Marchibroda as coach of the then-Baltimore Colts in 1979, was to meet with the 60-year­

YOU'VE WORKED HARD IN COLLEGE. MED SCHOOL IS RIGHT AROUND THE CORNER, AND YOU DESERVE TO GET IN. ONLY 50% WHO APPLY MAKE IT. NOW IS THE TIME TO TAKE THE MCAT. DON'T YOU THINK YOU SHOULD PREPARE 7 
10 STUDENTS PER CLASS 100 HOURS OF LIVE INSTRUCTION 50 HOURS OF LIVE TUTORIAL NATIONAL 800 TELEPHONE HELPLINE 3 COMPUTER-SCORED DIAGNOSTIC TESTS SCIENCE FLASH CARDS MATERIALS WRITTEN BY PH.D.S 8c M.D.S 
• SOUTH BEND 273-1866 EDUCATIDIAL &ROUP 
WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
old Buffalo assistant in 
Minneapolis on Monday. If that 
meeting went well, they would 
return to Indianapolis on 
Robert Irsay's private jet 
Monday night for another 
meeting with the owner to tie 
up any loose ends. 
Barring a snag, an an­nouncement of a new coach was expected on Tuesday or Wednesday. 
''I'm very excited about the possibility of being a head coach again," Marchibroda said moments after the Super Bowl ended. ''I'm looking for­ward to meeting with the Irsays." 
In Indianapolis, Venturi said Sunday night he had done all he could to promote his chances to remain as coach and now felt relaxed whatever the Irsays' decision is. Jim Irsay said earlier he would keep Venturi on the staff, most likely at his former job of defensive coordinator, should someone else get the top position. 
The only other men the Colts interviewed were former San Francisco offensive coordinator Mike Holmgren, who took himself out of the picture by accepting the head coaching job at Green Bay, and Michigan State's George Perles, a former NFL assistant who previously turned down offers to coach the Packers and the New York Jets. 
Marchibroda became the 
Tyson set to face his toughest fight 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -As Mike Tyson bounded up the steps, a piece of his boxing past stood 150 yards to his left. His future was dead ahead. 
Tyson didn't glance at Market Square Arena, where he was stopped by AI Evans in the third round of a bout at the U.S. amateur championships in December 1982. 
The loss virtually went unno­ticed. Tyson was just a 16-year­old with a dream back then, not Iron Mike who battered his way to the heavyweight champi­onship before his 21st birthday. 
The building Tyson entered Monday morning, amid the kind of media hoopla found at a major fight, was the City-County Building, which houses the court where Tyson is standing trial on rape and related charges. 
Jury selection began Monday. Testimony could begin Thursday in the courtroom of Marion Superior Court Judge Patricia J. Gifford. 
Tyson pushed through a re­volving door into the blaze of television camera lights Monday 
Bills' offensive coordinator in 1989 and was responsible for the no-huddle offense that be­came Buffalo's trademark. He joined the staff in 1987 as quarterback coach following stints as offensive coordinator for the Chicago Bears, Detroit Lions and Philadelphia Eagles. 
He was head coach of the Baltimore Colts from 197 5-79 and compiled a 41-36 record, including one stretch when the Colts went 29-4 and won three AFC East championships. 
His 10-4 record in his first year followed the Colts' 2-12 record the previous year and marked the greatest turnaround in NFL history. He was NFL coach of the year in 1975, and his 1976 Colts led the NFL in total offense, passing and scoring. 
He was fired after a 5-11 season in 1979. 
Marchibroda began his NFL coaching career as an assistant for the Washington Redskins in 1961. He later worked for the Los Angeles Rams and again for the Redskins before going to Baltimore as head coach. 
Marchibroda was a college quarterback at St. Bonaventure and the University of Detroit. He was the first-round draft pick of Pittsburgh in 1953 and, except for one year when he served in the Army, played with the Steelers through 1956. He ended his playing career with the Chicago Cardinals in 1957. 

and started up the stairs to the Give the man a chance." 
courtroom. Tyson is accused of raping an 
Mum was the word. Deadpan 18-year-old Miss Black America 
was his expression, just like it is contestant in his hotel suit in 
when he climbs into a ring to do Indianapolis on July 19. 
battle with padded fists. 

There was a flicker of emo­Despite being indicted, Tyson 
tion Monday, however, when at was scheduled to fight Evander 
the top of the stairs he held two Holyfield on Nov. 8 in Las Vegas 
fingers aloft in a victory sign. in a bid to regain the 
undisputed title he lost with the 
There was applause from shocking upset to James 
some onlookers in the crowded "Buster" Douglas on Feb. 11, 
lobby. 1990, in Tokyo. 
"Hey Mike," someone The fight was postponed shouted. "Let's go Mike," when he suffered a rib cartilage hollered, someone else. injury in October. A new date, 
satisfactory to all parties in­
Tyson wore a black overcoat, volved, could not be found be­but with the crowd's outburst fore the start of the trial. he might have been in the black boxing trunks he favors. Accompanying Tyson to court 
A voice cut through the hub­were aides Rory Holloway and bub: John Horne, who follow their "This ain't Mississippi, so you leader down the aisle when he 
ain't guilty yet." fights. 
It was shouted by a black Before going to court, Tyson woman who did not give her ran three or four miles. name. 
"He's getting prepared to do 
"This man has been cruci­what he do best," promoter Don fied," the woman said before a King said in the media center in sudden forest of microphones. the basement of the City-County "Nobody knows what happened. Building. "That is, fight." 
Steeler's Cowher names Erhardt new offensive coordinator 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Former New England Patriots coach Ron Erhardt was named offen­sive coordinator on Monday as new Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill Cowher hired his first three assistants. 
Dick Hoak, a Steelers' player or coach for 30 years, was re­tained as running backs coach and will likely be the only holdover member of retired coach Chuck Noll's staff. 
Steve Furness, a member of the Steelers' four Super Bowl championship teams, will re­place former teammate Joe Greene as defensive line coach. Furness was the Indianapolis Colts' line coach last season after eight seasons as an assis­tant under George Perles at Michigan State. 
Erhardt, 59, was the New York Giants' assistant head coach in charge of the offense last season, but was fired Jan. 7 by head coach Ray Handley. 
Cowher chose Erhardt, who prefers a power running of­fense, over former Denver Broncos coach Mike Shanahan, whose offense is more wide­open and more pass-reliant. 
"It was a no-lose situation as far I'm concerned because both are very qualified coaches," Cowher said. "You've got to run the ball to win championships and it's something Ron Erhardt has been able to do. 
"His teams have run the ball 
consistently and run it well." 
Erhardt's hiring seems proof the Steelers are convinced they must return to the running-ori­ented offense that was their trademark for years. 
The offense flopped the last two seasons under Joe Walton, who installed a complicated, multi-layered offense that re­lied on short passes to the tight ends. Walton was criticized for making the Steelers adapt to his offense, rather than vice versa. 
Asked recently how it would feel to learn yet another new offense, quarterback Bubby Brister said, "We haven't learned the old one yet." 
Cowher, formerly the Kansas City Chiefs' defensive coordina­tor, said he'll be involved with the offense, although Erhardt will install his plays and his terminology. Noll left the of­fense, even the substituting and play calling, almost entirely to Walton. 


WHAT'S NEW AT 
RecSports 
\RE YOU INTERESTED IN ANY OF TilE FOLLOWlf'..G SPORTS ' 
RACQUETBALL -'SQUASH
HANDBALL , ., TENNIS TABLE TENNIS BADMINTON 
ARE YOU HAVING TROUBLE FINDING A PARTNER? 
CHECK OUTTHE NEW PLAYERS BOARD POSTED ACROSS FROM THE VARSITY EQUIPMENT ROOM (BETWEEN THE VENDING MACHINES)' 
FILL OUT THE FORM AND LOCATE PARTNERS IN YOUR FAVORITE SPORTS 
DON'T WAIT 
PLAY TODAY~ 
Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
Thomas, Kelly fail to establish themselves as franchise players 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) Michael Jordan should sue Jim Kelly and Thurman Thomas for slander. Both were billed as franchise players. Both turned out to be very Jordan-ary. 
All week long, the debate raged: Was it Kelly or Thomas who was to the Buffalo Bills what Jordan is to the Chicago Bulls. When the Super Bowl was over, Jordan's stature as THE franchise centerpiece in sports remained unchallenged. 
The two who would be like Mike looked more like average Joes as their uneven play played a large part in Buffalo's second straight Super Bowl loss, a 37-24 runaway to the Washington Redskins. 
"We, as an offensive team, didn't make the plays we usu­ally make," Kelly said. "Sometimes I had guys open and I didn't hit them. Sometimes balls were there and we didn't catch them. Sometimes blocks slipped away. I think today was just a game where we were outplayed." 
Neither Kelly nor Thomas came anywhere near approach­ing Jordan on an average night, but at least Kelly snapped out of his first-half funk to make the final score respectable. 
Kelly came off a 9-for-21, two-interception first half by throwing his third interception of the game on the first play of the third quarter. 
One play later, the Redskins turned that takeaway into what proved to be the winning score, a 2-yard touchdown run by Gerald Riggs that made it 24-0. 
"That took a little air out of us," nose tackle Jeff Wright said. "The first play, boom, an­other seven points. The points were starting to mount on us." 
The points proved insur­mountable, but Kelly refused to call it quits. Working out of the shotgun, he drove the Bills 77 yards for their first score of the game, a 21-yard field goal by Scott Norwood. 
After the Redskins went out on downs, Kelly moved the Bills again for a score -Thomas' 1­yard touchdown run that made it 24-10. 
"We were down three touch­downs, four touchdowns, and, as you saw, we showed some character coming back when we had to," Kelly said. 
But with the Bills in an obvi­ous passing situation, Kelly was taking a beating. The Redskins had five sacks and probably twice that many clean shots after Kelly had released the ball. Kelly absorbed such a beating that he was still wobbly 30 minutes after the game ended. 
"I can remember some of the game, but not all of it. The part I remember, I didn't like," Kelly said. "Maybe I shouldn't re­member most of it ... maybe it's better that way." 
"I thought it was a very courageous performance," coach Marv Levy said. "He had a number of balls intercepted. Those are going to go up, the sacks are going to go up and the hits on the quarterback are going to go up when they know you're in a passing mode." 
The Bills were forced into a passing mode because their running game -specifically Thomas -never got untracked. 
Thomas, who sulked earlier in the week when offensive co­
-~-~----------­

AP File Photo The Bills' Thurman Thomas, shown here against the Jets, along with teammate Jim Kelly,could not ignite Buffalo's high-powered offense in a 37-24 defeat at the hands of the Washington Redskins in the Super Bowl. 
ordinator Ted Marchibroda were both running plays." called Kelly the Michael Jordan Thomas ended up the first of the Bills, didn't seem to have half with three yards in six car­his head in the game -literally ries and no catches. He finished -from the beginning. the game with only 13 yards on 
The NFL's MVP misplaced his 10 carries -then blamed the helmet on the bench, keeping coaching staff for not getting him sidelined for the Bills' first him more involved in the of­two offensive plays. fense. 
"I couldn't find it. I didn't "All week in practice, I was know where it was," Thomas getting a lot of work, but once said. "Everybody was running we got to game time, they just around looking for it and we didn't get me the ball," he said. finally found it, but I had "I don't know what our coaches' missed the first two plays and I thinking was or if that was what was very upset because they the situation dictated, but I feel I should have been used a little more in the first half." 
The truth is Thomas was in­effective. Redskin linebacker Wilber Marshall said Thomas' brash talk early in the week may have been his undoing. 
"We know that Thurman is the best and he said he's the best," Marshall said. "You can't say that with a bunch of rowdy guys on the other side of the ball." 
Michael Jordan certainly doesn't. 
SOPHOMORE SIBUNG WEEKEND SIGN-UP 
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY IN NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS DURING LUNCH AND DINNER 
SECURE A PLACE FOR YOUR 12-15 YEAR OLD BROTHER OR SISTER FC)R A MERE $20 DEPOSI11 
SOPHOMORE SIBS IS APRIL 3-5 
QUESTIONS?? CAIJ, THE SOPHOMORE ClASS OFFICE AT 239-5225 
-~~--------------·---~------­

AP File Photo Duke forward Christian Laettner, shown here launching a shot against Oklahoma, has led top-ranked Duke to twenty-one straight victories. 
Another controversy at UNLV as leading scorer Rider is arrested 
LAS VEGAS (AP)-J.R. Rider, the leading scorer on the UNLV basketball team. faces charges of obstructing a police officer following an incident at a fast­food restaurant. 
Police said Rider was arrested early Friday morning after allegedly becoming abusive with an officer responding to a call of a disturbance at the restaurant. 
According to a police report, Rider refused police orders to remain still and was finally handcuffed and arrested. He was booked for investigation of obstructing a police officer and released after posting $200 bail at the Clark County Detention Center. 
Rider accompanied the Rebels after being released from jail on a trip to New Mexico and scored 26 points in UNLV's 74­6 7 victory Saturday night over outside a Jack in the Box and honked his horn to try to get service. A worker inside the restaurant called police, who arrived while Rider was still at the drive-through window. 

A breathalyzer test adminis­tered at the detention center showed the 21-year-old Rider had a blood-alcohol level of .08 percent, under the legal limit of .10 percent in Nevada. 
UNLV coach Jerry Tarkanian said Rider told him he was stopped for having an expired registration. 
"I guess he must have said something to the officer and they arrested him, but I don't know that to be a fact," Tarkanian said. 
Rider, a junior college trans­fer who is averaging 20.7 points, was named Monday as Big West Conference co-player of the week. 
The Observer Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
Duke reigns, but ranked teams losing 
(AP)-Certain things just aren't changing about the AP's college basketball poll this season. 
Duke, the defending national champion, was still No. 1 today and the Blue Devils were a unanimous selection for the fourth time this season. UCLA and Oklahoma State, the other two unbeaten Division I teams, held spots 2 and 3 for the fifth consecutive week. And, in what may be the most telling trait of all, the members of the Top 25 continued to lose games with 11 teams losing 14 games this week. 
That's an improvement over the ways of the ranked teams the last two weeks when 16 teams lost 18 games and then 13 teams lost 16 games for a total of 48 losses by ranked teams in three weeks. 
Two schools which lost two games each last week fell from the poll -St. John's, which had been 22nd, and Stanford, formerly 24th. The Redmen (10-6) had been ranked every week since the preseason poll of 1990-91 and started this season 1Oth. The Cardinal (11­
3) joined the poll last week, but two home losses relegated them to one-week wonder status, a standing also held this season by Pittsburgh, Massachusetts and Iowa State. 
Joining the poll this week were Florida State, which c1tme in at 23rd in the Seminoles' first appearance in the rankings since the final poll of 1988-89, and Southern Cal, which was 25th and back in after being in two weeks and then out for another two. 

Duke (14-0) is on a 20-game winning streak and the Blue Devils received all 64 first-place votes from the nationwide panel of sportwriters and broadcasters. UCLA (14-0) and Oklahoma State (18-0) held their spots from last week as did Indiana (14-2) and Kansas (14-1). Connecticut moved up one spot to sixth and was fol­lowed in the Top Ten by Arkansas, Missouri, Arizona and Ohio State. 
North Carolina led the Second Ten and was followed by Syracuse, Michigan State, Kentucky, Michigan, Tulane, North Carolina-Charlotte, Oklahoma, Texas-El Paso and Georgia Tech, the team in the Top 25 with the most losses, five. 
The final five were UNLV, Alabama, Florida State, Louisville and Southern Cal. 
Ohio State fell from sixth to lOth following Sunday's loss to Seton Hall, while Kentucky dropped from eighth to 14th following consecutive losses to Tennessee and Arkansas, the latter at home. Alabama took the week's biggest fall -15th to 22nd -after ending a three­game losing streak with a road win over Georgia. 
Florida State (12-4) entered the poll in its first year in the Atlantic Coast Conference with a league mark of 5-2 with four of the victories coming on the road including three ranked teams at the time -North Carolina, Wake Forest and Georgia Tech. 
Southern Cal (13-3) fell from the rankings after losses to Notre Dame and Arizona, but the Trojans have returned fol­lowing road wins over Stanford and California last week. They meet UCLA on Wednesday night with first place in the Pac-1 0 on the line. 
St. John's has lost four of six -all four in Big East road games. The two last week which caused the Redmen to get the boot were to Seton Hall and Syracuse. 
Stanford had just one loss before this weekend's Pac-1 0 homestand, in which the Cardinal fell to Southern Cal and UCLA. 
The Atlantic Coast Conference, Big Eight and Big Ten each have four teams in the poll, while the Big East is down to two -Connecticut and Syracuse -after having five teams in the rankings for two separate weeks earlier in the season. Six of the 10 teams in the Big East have been ranked at some point in the season. 
Seminoles victorious in top-25 debut 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. (AP) ­Douglas Edwards had two key baskets in the final three min­utes and Sam Cassell hit a twisting layup with three sec­onds to play Monday night as Florida State celebrated its first appearance in the Top 25 in nearly three years with a 68-67 victory over Florida. 
The 23rd-ranked Seminoles squandered an 11-point first­half lead and fell behind by nine early in the second half before rallying behind Edwards and Cassell. 
There were only six lead changes, but five came in the last 3:04 when Douglas put Florida State ahead twice be­fore Cassell took a pass from Charlie Ward beneath the bas­ket and got off a scoop shot while using his body to shield off Florida's Stacey Poole. 

Casell had 19 points and Edwards scored 15 points and grabbed 10 rebounds. Rodney Dobard added 15 points for Florida State (13-4), which en­tered the Top 25 Monday for the first time since 1988 and will carry a six-game winning streak into Thursday night's Atlantic Coast Conference game against top-ranked Duke. 
Andrew DeClercq led Florida (1 0-7) with 14 points and 15 rebounds, both career-highs. Poole had 13 points, including a 15-foot fallaway jumper over the 6-foot-9 Edwards that gave Florida a 67-66 lead with 24 seconds remaining. 
Ward, Florida State's nor­mally efficient point guard who spends his offseason as the Seminoles' backup quarter­back, had more turnovers (six) than points (five) but was able to penetrate the lane after a timeout to slip a pass to Cassell, who made only six of 17 shots. 
Florida overcame a slow start to wipe out an 11-point deficit and take a 41-34 half­time lead. The Gators missed their first eight shots from the field, but got unexpected help on offense from DeClercq, Dan Cross and Scott Stewart, who keyed an 18-4 spurt that gave Florida the lead. 
Florida went up 45-36 two minutes into the second half, but couldn't keep up the pace. Florida State flirted with the Gators for the next 14 minutes and finally pulled within 60-59 on Ward's 3-pointer with 4:03 to go. 
New Mexico State. 

According to the report filed r.-...---..-..--~4..-..------~-------.-a~----~,--.._..__.._..______-,._...l 
by Metro Police officer Jason Cooper, Rider threatened him I after being arrested. 
I 
Rider, however, said Monday he was provoked by police, who I he said taunted him because he 
was a basketball player. "They said I obstructed them, 
which I think was reversed,"l
Rider said prior to a UNLV I practice. 
Rider said he was in a car I 
AV American Heart Association 
WE:1lE FGifi11IG Fa? \OJlUFE 
I 
I 

_____, 
~......aliil~~r 
I 
I 
iiiiiiiiij.._ ..., 
LOVE CRIMES R5:00, 7:30, 9..S 
I
FATHER OF THE BRIDE PG 4:30, 7:00, 9:15 FREEJACK R 4:45, 7:15. 9:30 
I 

========:tL--~~~..-..­
THE STUDENTS, FACULTY, STAFF 

i 
AND ADMINISTRATION OF t' HOLy C R OS S COLLEGE I
II
1 
EXTEND THEIR SYMPATHY TO THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY 
ON THE OCCASION OF THEIR LOSS. ALL OF YOU ARE IN OUR PRAYER 


HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
-~..-.~.._...,_..._...._..~~-,._...~--------------·----..._..-~.-....-..--J 
~-~--~-----------------. 
Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
SPORTSBRIEFS 
•Late 
Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notr(J Dame and Saint Mary's. Interested persons should contact their hall LNO representative for information on the latest night of the year-Late Night Olympics, Friday, Jan; 31. 

•Attention 
all rowers. the first general meeting of the year will be held on Wednesday, January 29 in room 120 Cushing Hall at 7:30p.m. New members are welcome. Novice practice will begin this Friday at 4:30 at the J.A.C.C. Fieldhouse. 

•Hapkido/Tae 
Kwon Do practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean at 283-3457. 

•The 
opening ceremonies for the AFROTC Basketball tournament will take place on Saturday, February 1 at 7:30 


p.m. in the J.A.C.C. The tournament which will include teams from throughout the Midwest; will conclude with the championship game at 12 p.m. on Sunday, February 2. 
•Attention 
ND/SMC Sailing: Congratulations to the new officers for the 1992 year. Commodore Adrienne Briggs, Vice Commodore Rudy Brice, Rear Commodore Michael Kane. Race Team Captain Julie. Hurley, Treasurer Kim St. Clair, Secretary Kathleen Halloran, Social Commissioners Carry Eiben and Dave 
McCusker. 

•The 
Tae Kwon Do Club will be having practice during the following times for the spring semester: Monday a.nd Wednesday 7:30~9 p.m. and Thursday 8:30~10 p.m. in the fencing gym of the J.A.C.C. Any questions. call Lisa at 2834852; 

•A 
Cross Country Ski Clinic for beginners is on the golf course by RecSports, Wednesday, January 


p.m. Register in advance at RecSports. ii):Jj;,[[j,i!'''JI 
•WVFI-AM 
640 invites you to tune in and listen. tonight from 8-9 p.m. as Sportsta1k discusses the Notre Dame basketball season with Irish hoopsstar Daimon Sweet. Call in at 239-6400 to talk about college basketball, th(l Super Bowl or whatever sport is on your mind. · · · 

•Notre 
Dame Rugby: There will be a meeting on Tuesd<ty; February 4, at 8 p.m. in the Loftus Center for anyone interested in joining. No experience or pads necessary. For aU past members, practices are being held every Tuesday and Thursday at 9 p.m. at Loftus. We will be using SACS, so remember to bring them. 


American Red Cross 
r--·­



Need t\. Sp~·ing Break!
i ~~-~ 
A Treat Yourself To A Barefoot Bahamas 

Spring Break C 'r'he t.ntim.ate Sailing Experience '• 
[caii I~0-3~9:9808_!oc0J \~" 
The Observer 

#6 UConn buries Villanova 72-58 
STORRS, Conn. (AP) ­Connecticut heeded coach Jim Calhoun's plea for improved de­fense, holding Villanova to 30.6 percent shooting in avenging its only loss of the season with a 72-58 victory Monday night. 
The Huskies (16-1, 7-1) had trouble generating offense, shooting only 38.5 percent, but they overcame that with 11 blocked shots, seven by fresh­man Donyell Marshall, and a strong rebounding game. 
The Huskies stretched their lead in the Big East to a game over Syracuse. 
Villanova (7-9, 5-3), which has played Top 25 teams in six of its past eight games, has lost three of its last four after win­ning four straight. 
Chris Smith, Connecticut's leading scorer, had his worst shooting game of the season, going 0-for-8, but the Huskies used a balanced attack to make up for it. Marshall had 15 points, Scott Burrell 13, Rod Sellers 11 and Smith was 10­for-12 from the free throw line. 
Lance Miller led the Wildcats with 21 points and Arron Bain had 10. 
The Huskies were outre­bounded 38-31 in their 79-70 loss to the Wildcats 16 days ago, but at home the Huskies held a 49-37 rebounding edge with Sellers grabbing 12 and Walker 11. They also held cen­ter James Bryson, who had 19 points and 10 rebounds in the first game, to five points and four rebounds. 
Connecticut led 37-33 at half­time and both teams played misearably for the next 10 minutes. They had trouble 

Swim 
continued from page 20 
moment of silence was held for 
the victims of the bus accident. 

When I heard of this, I was emotionally touched. Meghan was one of my close friends on campus and I know how much it meant to her family when I ..told them about the recognition 
at the Seton Hall game. 
Now, I hope Notre Dame will choose to remember Meghan and Colleen. Nothing will ever come close to replacing both of them, but some symbol might passing the ball, continually overthrowing their targets. They also mishandled their dribble and missed easy shots. 
That improved when Walker leaped and batted the ball high above the rim to give Connecticut a 49-44 lead with 
9:28 left. Brian Fair hit a 3­pointer 35 seconds later to ex­tend the lead to eight. 
The Wildcats closed to 57-52 with 5:42 left when Bain hit a 3-pointer. But Villanova went 
3:30 without a point, and 
help many to remember the special ways in which both women touched our lives. 
I suggest that the Notre Dame Athletic Department make black patches with the initials of the two girls and have them added to all uniforms. These patches could remain on the uniforms until May of 1995, the month when the two girls would have graduated. 
I also think that it would be appropriate if a banner was hung in the Rolf's Aquatic Center to remember these two members of the swim team. 
The final option would be for the athletic department to place Connecticut made six of eight free throws and Burrell added a rebound basket to open a 65-52 lead. 

Miller hit three straight short baskets to close to 65-58, but the Huskies responded with two free throws by Smith and a dunk by Burrell to put the game away. 
The inside play was key for Connecticut, which had 21 sec­ond-chance points to five for Villanova. 
some memorabilia in a case in Heritage Hall on the second floor of the Joyce ACC, similar to what was done for the plane crash involving Knute Rockne, 
I think these symbols would be a very nice tribute to two people who touched so many lives in their short lives. 
God bless you Meghan and Colleen! 
Editor's note: This article was written before last night's basketball game, in which the Irish wore black bands on their uniforms in memory of the swimmers. 
Ill 
ALUMNI 
SENIOR 
iECLUB 

STUDENT MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
& 

JOB DESCRIPTIONS FOR 1992-93 ARE NOW AVAILABLE. 
PICK THEM OP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FEBRUARY 21, 1992 
--~ ~­
-
-----------.,.------,----­
The Observer Tuesday, January 28, 1992page 18 
.-Ewing, Knicks end Utah's 17-game 
Irish

home-winning streak, 97-80 
continued from page 20 

SALT LAKE CITY lAP) -12 in the fourth quarter. Patrick Ewing had 28 points Utah, the NBA's top-shooting first-ever basket in an Irish and 12 rebounds as the New team on 3-pointers, was 0-for-uniform with 42 seconds re­York Knicks stopped Utah's 17-11 from long range. John maining, the crowd and ND game home winning streak, Stockton missed all five of his 
bench erupted. 

beating the Jazz 97-80 Monday attempts. "He's been working hard, and 
night. Stockton, just 4-for-14 from it's always nice to see those Ewing also blocked five shots the field, and Jeff Malone each guys score," said Ellis. "We and had five assists as the finished with 15 points for wanted to see Matt drop a cou­
Knicks finished 3-0 on a trip Utah. Anthony Mason added 13 ple also, but the shots justthat included games against points and eight rebounds for didn't fall." Golden State and the Los New York. 
"We were concerned about Angeles Clippers. Ewing aver­The Knicks, ahead 50-47 at not having a letdown tonight,"aged 32 points in the sweep. halftime, briefly surrendered added MacLeod. "We wanted to 
New York has won 11 of its the lead when Karl Malone's stay aggressive, attack their 
last 17 road games after losing 15-footer made it 57-56 at the 
press, and it was very encour­its first five of the season. The 7:47 mark of the third quarter. aging to see us keep our mo­Knicks have won four in a row But a 13-4 run, highlighted by mentum. We needed this overall against the Jazz. Gerald Wilkins' 3-pointer and chance for the young players to Karl Malone had 28 points for basket and Charles Oakley's get in there." Utah, which had rallied within two field goals, put New York Sweet led all scorers with 18 84-76 after Tyrone Corbin's two up by 12 points with 3:07 left in points. Ellis added 17 points
foul shots with 5:20 to play. But the period. (including a perfect six-of-six the Knicks held the Jazz Utah jumped to a 10-2 lead from the field), seven rebounds without a basket the rest of the behind six points from Karl and three blocks, and Bennett 
game, and outscored Utah 18-Malone. 
chipped in 13 points and dished out seven assists.
Howe drug trial postponed 

Freshman Chip Hare led
Magic invited to Australia 
Dayton with 14 points, while KALISPELL, Mont. (AP) -again, and a hearing is Bennett and Sweet (who hadSYDNEY, Australia (AP) -which Magic Johnson was a Steve Howe's trial on a federal scheduled for Friday in four steals) did an excellent job 
Basketball Australia said member," Sando said. "That 
cocaine charge, scheduled to Missoula. 

shutting down the Flyers' out­Tuesday it has invited Magic risk -even though it's small ­begin this week, is being post­Nardi said the change will side threats. Robertson, DukesJohnson to captain a United you cannot absolutely say it's poned while prosecutors add force Howe's trial to be put off. 
and Richter combined for onlyStates all-star team in a pre­never going to occur." 
another misdemeanor count, The Yankees begin spring 
16 points on just 4-of-12Olympic tournament against The Australian Olympic 
according to one of his defense training in mid-February. 
shooting from the field, and 14the country's national team. Committee later issued a attorneys. Nardi said Howe would plead turnovers.
The invitation is seen as a bid statement saying there would Howe, the New York Yankees not guilty to both charges. 
"We had a scouting report
by national officials to distance be no boycott, and other gov­
relief pitcher, was to go on Also,U.S. Magistrate Bart 
that as long as we forced them
the sport from remarks made ernment officials, including trial Thursday. He was Erickson's office confirmed out on the defensive end, we
last week by some team mem­Foreign Minister Gareth Evans, arrested Dec. 19 for allegedly Monday that Howe's attorney, 
could force some turnovers,
bers and the team doctor. The criticized Sando for his com­
paying an undercover agent Pat Sherlock of Kalispell, 
and that ignited our fastbreak,"doctor questioned whether the ments. 
$100 for one gram of cocaine called last Friday to say he said Bennett. 
team should play against the Center Mark Bradtke said 
in Kalispell. The sentence for it was mailing a motion for And with DePaul coming into HIV-positive Johnson. there should be compulsory is up to one year in jail and/or continuance of the original town Wednesday night, NotreThe remarks provoked HIV testing for all Olympic ath­a $1,000 fine. case. Erickson's clerk said the Dame will be looking to buildoutrage in the United States letes, while center Ray Borner The United States Attorney's motion for continuance had upon tonight's strong effort.
and in Australia. said he would consider default­office in Helena has told Howe not arrived in Monday's mail. 
"When DePaul comes in here, Basketball Australia chief ex­ing a match. 
he is also being charged with The pitcher, who staged a we've got another tremendousecutive David Woolley said "I would have thought that in attempted possession of a dan­comeback last season after challenge on our hands," saidJohnson would be ask1)d to lead any contact sport, anybody HIV gerous drug, Stephen Nardi, five suspensions from baseball MacLeod. "They are a very tal­
a team of players against positive would basically not 
one of Howe's two local attor· for drug and alcohol problems, 
ented and deep team, and
Australia in Canberra on July 4, play," Borner said. "It's com­neys, said Monday. Nardi said was released without bond a Wednesday's game will be a dif­shortly before the Olympic team mon sense." 
Howe must be arraigned day after his arrest last month. 
ficult one.

departs for Barcelona. "If it was a choice of playing 
If commitments with the U.S. for gold or staying off and tak-Olympic team prevent Johnson ing silver, I'd take silver." from playing in that match, Sando's comments were criti-Woolley said Basketball 
Australia will try to arrange an cized by o~ Ron Penn~ one of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ alternative date for Johnson 
~e~~~~~~:·s leading AIDS re-~~~~ ~HJS ~RJD~ y ~lith~
and his wife to visit. "Instead of preaching sense 
Last week, basketball team and reason, he's preaching fear doctor Brian Sando said and hysteria," said Penny, head Australian players should boy­of immunology at Sydney's St. cott competing against the U.S. team if Johnson plays. Penny is head of the largest
Vincents Hospital. 
L AT E N I GH T 
"I would certainly recom­advanced-l-IlY care facility in mend that our basketballers Australia and is a member of not compete with a team of several AIDS advisory boards. 
ATTENTION OLYMPICS 
Deadline for 1992/93 
~ 

Financial Aid Form (FAF) 
~ 

SUPPORT SPECIAL OLYMPICS SUPPORT YOUR HALL'S TEAMS 
February 28, 1992 (ND) March 1, 1992 (SMC) 

FRIDAY,JANUARY31 8:00PM-4:00AM Contact your financial aid office for details. PORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSSPORTSS OODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOODFOO ourtesy of the financial /FUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUNFUN Aid offices of Notre ~~ SLoo DoNATioN AT THE DooR 
ALL PROCEEDS GO TO ST. JOSEPHCOUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS 
Dame and Saint Mary•s 
~~ 



Tuesday, January 28, 1992 The Observer page 19 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CAMPUS 

67 -defense 
Tuesday

68 Come next 
5 p.m. Mass: The feast of St. Thomas Aquinas. Alumni Hall
69 Harry Belafonte 
song Chapel. Gregorian chant by the Liturgical Choir. 70 Fencing foi 1 7 p.m. Film: "A Man and a Woman." Carroll Auditorium, Saint 
71 "The defense -" 
Mary's College. Sponsored by Popular Culture Group of Saint Mary's College. DOWN 7 p.m. Film: "Ohayo." Annenberg Auditorium. 1 Spasm 7:30 p.m. Faculty Senate Meeting. Rooms 100-104, Center for 
2 Make bigger 
Continuing Education. 
(abbr.) 

9 p.m. Film: "The Searchers." Annenberg Auditorium. 
3 Popular hangouts 4 Borden's cow 5 11acedonian city 6 "-Diavolo" 7 Charged particle 
LECTURES

8 Like some jeans 9 One way to pay 
(2 wds.) 10 Hubbub 11 -t1esa 12 Famous fountain Tuesday 13 -wrap 4:30 p.m. Lecture: Sesquicentennial Series: Traditions of Learning 
18 Knave 
at Notre Dame, "The Growth of Foreign Language Teaching at
19 Ancient instruments 
Notre Dame," Klaus Lanzinger. Hesburgh Library Lounge.
23 Milan's "La-" 24 Spanish man's name Sponsored by history department. 25 Bandleader Shaw 26 Nuclear particle 27•What old grads do 32 Baker's ingredient 34 Product's maker 36 Unmatched 37 Nobel prize-winner 
-Root ACROSS 38 Take ten MENU 
23 Tension (3 wds.) 41 Emulated Romeo
1 Wigwam 49Yoko,etal. 
6 ~1iss d' Orsay 28 Bird call 51 "So there!" 44 Emulate Minnie Notre Dame 
29 1958 movie, "God's 48 Zephyr
10 Emulates 6-Across 52 Mythological twins Batter Fried Perch 
14 1938 movie, "­Little-" (3 wds.) 50 World Cup sport Chicago" 30 "-Haw" 57 Exclamation of 52 One of Santa's Roast Turkey 
15 Horse color 31 Chinese port disgust reindeer Fettucini Alfredo 
33 "Three men in-"

16 1·1rs. David Copper­58 2.0 grade-point 53 Rocket stage Deli Bar
35 More convinced 54 Trembling
field average
17 Increasingly near 39-duck 59 Environmental 55 Author of old 
40 Metric volume 56 Actor Greene Saint Mary's 
(3 wds.) science (abbr.)
20 1963 movie, "David 42 Aswan's river 60 Luxury (3 wds.) 61 Youth group Beef Fajitas 
43 Indian state 62 Chemical suffix
and --" 66 Black Parmesan Oven Fried Cod
45 Of an age

21 -de cologne 63 Once named 
Stuffed Pepper 

22 Tennessee power 46 Nefarious 64 Prefix: self 
complex 47 Blubber 65 French possessive Deli Bar 
A\t the ""\ovie§ with S~IU.113~ 
I • I I 

Pacific Heights Deceived 
Thursday, January 30 Friday, January 31 8 PM &10:30 PM Saturday, February 1 ... 8 PM & 10:30 PM 
Acmission $2 

Shown in Cushing Auditorium 
NO ALCOHOL PERMITTED!! 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
1'••..,....................,.,......................, ..........,.•••••_..-....,...........w •....._."'_.••, ........_.rl'.·.-.·.-.-.·.···········.-.·.-.·.·.·.v.-••••,..........·A•.·.·.-.-...-••.-.............,....,,.,•...., 
Sports 

page 20 Tuesday, January 28, 1992 
Men's hoops explodes against Dayton, 76-54 
... 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Sports Writer 
Three players have dominated Notre Dame's scoring column this year, as a corps of four seniors have proved to be the heart of the Irish basketball team. Last night's victory over Dayton seemed no different, as Daimon Sweet. LaPhonso Ellis and Elmer Bennett combined for 48 of the 76 Irish points. 
However. the 22-point Notre Dame victory was different. The game was the first blowout of 1991-92 in which the Irish have found themselves in the winner's column. And the game provided the first opportunity for Notre Dame's future starters to show their mettle while holding a lead. 
"We haven't had an opportu­nity to play much of the beneh people," said eoach John MacLeod. "And this is how the young kids come along: by pe­riodieally giving them time so that they can build their confi­denee." 
Freshman Billy Taylor led the way for the future Irish. with ten points on 5-6 shooting. Though Taylor has started 13 of 14 games this season, he has faced the same problems as any freshman. However. MacLeod was pleased with Taylor's progress. 


"He (Taylor) is quietly effec­tive," said MacLeod. "You don't notice him but you look down at the chart and he's five for six. 
"He's getting better. He has a great focus, and is very quiet. He's consistent, he's solid. makes very few mistakes, and keeps his head in the game." 
While Taylor contributed as a member of the starting five, several other Irish came in off of the bench to seal the Notre Dame victory. 
Sophomore Carl Cozen con­tributed seven points in only seven minutes, while Joe Ross, Jon Ross and Brooks Boyer also added solid playing time. 
"The fact that we can use Jon now as a four (power forward) and a five (center) and Joe came in tonight and played very well helps us," said MacLeod. 
"And Cozen is starting to set­tle down here. He hit a couple of nice shots tonight." 
Notre Dame's talented freshman class continued to show potential, though two members of that dub, Nathion 
Gilmore and Jason Williams, still have yet to score on the season. 
Guards Malik Russell and Lamarr Justice also looked promising in action against Dayton. Though he did not score, Justice's hustle and work as a cheerleader boosted his teammates' morale, while Russell electrified the remain­ing crowd with an explosive baseline drive and dunk during the fourth quarter. 
The blowout kept Ellis from a huge scoring night, but the se­nior was unselfish about his rest. 
"I think we're in really good shape," he said. "We could have played all 40 minutes. Fortunately, we were playing well, we were up 20 points, and we were able to get some of the other guys some playing time." 
MacLeod realizes the need to support the senior front line. 
"Hopefully we can build some depth here," he said. "We can get some of these people, Jon, .Joe, Nathion and Carl, to come in and help our front line. 
"We play these seniors a lot of minutes, and they certainly need some time (to rest)." 

Irish record first home victory in Macleod era in impressive style 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

On the strength of two huge first-half runs, Notre Dame opened up a 21-point halftime lead and cruised to a 76-54 thrashing of the Dayton Flyers last night at the Joyce ACC. 
The Irish (6-8) held the Flyers scoreless for over eight min­utes, going on a 16-0 run early in the first half to erase a three­point Dayton lead and forge ahead 23-10, with 8:14left. 
Then, after the Flyers had climbed to within nine, Notre Dame went on a 15-2 spurt to up their lead to 22 points, 38­16, just before haltime. From there, the Irish coasted in, sa­voring their first home victory of the season-and the first­ever home win for NO coach John MacLeod. 
"We needed this one," said MacLeod. "We played more like us tonight. We were active de­fensively, we had four people in double figures, and we had the opportunity to play a lot of young players." 
The Irish forced 17 turnovers in the first half, and at one point during their 16-0 run, seven in a row from a befud­dled Flyer crew. Dayton (9-9) was never able to get its inside game untracked, and that, when coupled with its inability to get penetration from guards Alex Robertson, Derrick Dukes and John Richter, spelled trou­ble from the outset for the Flyers. 
"They never pressed us once during the game, and we still turned the ball over 25 times (for the game)," said Dayton coach .Jim O'Brien. "I also was disappointed with the play of our big guys in the post." 
Notre Dame's harrassing de­fense also unleashed the "Texas Connection." seniors Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett, on the fast break in the first half. Along with fellow senior LaPhonso Ellis, the Irish time and again took advantage of either a Flyer turnover or miss (Dayton shot 8-of-22 in the first 20 minutes) for easy shots. 
The three combined for 30 
first-half points on 12-of-21 
shooting, and with freshman 
Billy Taylor chipping in six ad­
ditional points, the Irish shot 
out to a comfortable 40-19 
halftime lead. 

"Billy was quietly effective," said MacLeod of Taylor, who finished with 10 points and five rebounds. "He pounded the boards and triggered our break. He may play with very little flair, but he's a solid player." 
"We've been showing how well we can play defense in spurts, and tonight we wanted to put it all together and come out with the victory," added Ellis. "We were getting some steals, and then getting easy baskets, and I think that was the key to our success tonight." 
As good as the Irish were in the first half, they didn't let up their intensity at all in the sec­ond half. A 12-2 run midway through the final period in­creased their lead to 31, 64-33, with 9:31 remaining, and MacLeod began emptying his bench. 
Both junior Matt Adamson and sophomore Brendan Tully saw their first action of the year, much to the delight of the lingering contingent of 8,514 fans. And when Tully scored his 
see IRISH/ page 18 
Gone but not forgotten 
Early last Friday morning, the Notre Dame community en­countered a terrible tragedy. The women's swim team bus was involved in an accident which resulted in two fatalities. 
Despite this terrible incident, I was proud to see the Notre Dame community respond the way it did 


at last Friday's memorial mass for Meghan Beeler and Colleen Hipp. 
Mark McGrath 

Never did I imagine that when I 
Sports Writer 

arrived with one of my friends at 
4:30 pm that I would find Sacred Heart at full capacity so early. 
However, I think we, the Notre Dame community, should recognize the tragic loss and their achievements in some public manner. 
I remember it was in December of 1988 when Pan Am Flight 103 tragically exploded. As many will remember, that flight carried many students from Syracuse University. Even now I am still reminded of the tragedy any time I see Syracuse participate in any athletic events. 
The athletic department at Syracuse chose to remember these deceased students in a manner that would allow others to remember them also. If you see Syracuse play any sports, you will notice a black oval patch with the numbers '103' within the oval. 
The Notre Dame bus accident received national attention almost immediately. I was at The Observer that Thursday night and spoke with the Associated Press. The bus accident was the headline around the country the next day. 
This past weekend, I believe the NCAA took steps to recognize the tragedy. One friend of mine told me that before Sunday's nationally televised Seton Hall-Ohio State basketball game, a 
see SWIM I page 17 





