The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 59 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton promises 'open door' to both parties in Congress 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Presi­dent-elect Bill Clinton paid a whirlwind visit to Capitol Hill on Thursday, ple.dging an open door to Democrats and Repub­licans alike and to "meet them halfway" on an early agenda of economic revival and health­care reform. 
"I think we're off to a good start," Clinton said after 6 1/2 hours of meetings on Capitol Hill and as congressional lead­ers from both parties nodded in agreement. ''I'm excited by it." 
Clinton also met with Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the .Joint Chiefs of Staff, for a wide­ranging briefing on military, 
SMC student 
. 


recovenng from game day 
By JULIE BARRETT 
Assistant News Editor 
Saint Mary's senior Jill Burdo suffered bruised ribs, a bruised ligament in her left knee, bro­ken blood vessels in her eyes and black eyes after being trampled by students when she fell while rushing onto the field after the ND football team's victory over Penn State Saturday. 
An emergency room clerk at St. Joseph's Medical Center where Burdo was taken said about 12 other people came after the game and received treatment for cuts and bruises, heart and abdominal pain, and alcohol-related problems. 
"If I was on the ground for five more seconds, I would've died," she said. "I screamed for help but people kept walk-ing and falling on me, nearly suffocating me to death." 
A nearby usher helped her off the ground and took her to the First Aid office, she said. Burdo was taken to St. Joseph's where she received a skull X­ray to check for a basal skull fracture. Doctors finding no fracture, treated and released her for her other injuries. 
"That night I had to be awak­ened every two hours to make sure I didn't slip into a coma," she said. 'This is standard pro­cedure for head injury victims. "She is on crutches and said it will take 3 to 4 weeks for her bruised ribs to heal. 
Chuck Hurley, assistant direc­
tor of Security, said one student complained about how the po­lice handled students attempt­ing to pull down the goalposts. 
national security and foreign policy issues. 
Powell reiterated his opposi­tion to lifting the ban on homo­sexuals in the military, but said he would help implement the change if Clinton kept his promise to reverse the ban. 
''I'm very pieased that he has said he will move carefully in full consultation with military leaders and others who have an interest in this matter," Powell said in Pennsylvania before returning to Washington for the meeting. "We had an excellent discussion," was all Powell said afterward. 
Democratic Party chairman 
a S Or Sa e · 

•see First Ladies I page 6 House meeting with President Bush, a visit to a crime-scarred
Ronald Brown, a candidate for city neighborhood, an elegant
an administration post, was 
dinner party, a stay in a poshalso on Clinton's private meet­hotel, a jog past Washington'sing schedule before a dinner at 
monuments and into McDon­the Georgetown home of 
ald's, a visit with commuters onDemocratic fund-raiser and ac­a city bus and meetings in thetivist Pamela Harriman. 
Capitol with lawmakers. 
Clinton was winding up a 
As Clinton captured the capi­busy two-day visit to Washing­tal spotlight, a host of transition ton, his first since winning the aides quietly went to work onNov. 3 election. His stay was Capitol Hill and throughout therich with symbols not only of city. In addition, several Clintonhow Clinton plans to govern but 
economic advisers met withof how he hopes to keep in 
congressional staff. 
touch with everyday folks while The Arkansas governor cameleading the nation. 
to Capitol Hill carrying a
In one 24-hour stretch, Clin­promise of bipartisan coopera­ton's st included: a White 

Notre Dame Senior Chrissy Rossi checks out the Guatemalan imports on sale at Saint Mary's. The sale is taking place in LeMans Hall. 
see SHOW I page 4 

Trade dispute unresolved by negotiators 
WASHINGTON (AP) -U.S. and European negotiators broke off talks Thursday after failing to resolve a bitter trade dispute, leaving in place a Dec. 5 deadline for imposition of punitive tariffs that would triple the cost of European white wines for American consumers. 
Both sides said they planned to resume discussions soon in an effort to avert a trade war over the issue of soybean sub­sidies paid to European farm­ers. 
After three hours of talks Wednesday and seven on Thursday, U.S. Trade Repre­sentative Carla Hills that both sides were "quite close to­gether" in all the areas under dispute. 1 
Frans Andriessen, the chief trade negotiator for the Euro­pean Community, also ex­pressed satisfaction with the results of the negotiations. However, both Hills and An­driessen had expressed the hope earlier in the day that a final agreement could be reached Thursday. 
Neither official explained what roadblocks had developed or where the differences be­tween the two sides had been narrowed but both stressed that substantial progress had been made. 
"We made good progress to­day. We are quite close together and we are going to continue to work," Hills said. 

Andriessen added, "We are very close and we will continue as soon as possible." 
Failure of the Washington talks to produce agreement means that the threat of a trade war between the United States and its biggest trading partner, the 12-nation EC, remains a live possibility. 
The EC delegation left imme­diately to return to Brussels where it will brief members of the European Commission on the status of the negotiations on Friday. There was no indication 
see TRADE I page 4 

tion and I"eft predicting law­makers would reciprocate. 
"We have to pursue a differ­ent course of growing this economy, creating more jobs, raising incomes and having a disciplined plan to reduce the deficit," Clinton said. "I think if we work hard at it, we can have bipartisan cooperation." 
He sought to balance such optimism with a reminder that some problems facing the country are "of mind-bending complexity." Said Clinton, "The sense I get from the American .people is ... they don't expect miracles of us, but they do expect progress." 
'You Bet Your Life' game show comes to South Bend 

By BECKY BARNES 
Assistant News Editor 
Do you have the biggest bottle cap collection this side of the Mississippi? Or did you have an interesting job this summer? If you answered "you bet," it may be time to bet your life. 
The television game show "You Bet Your Life" is coming to South Bend this Saturday to audition "interesting, unusual people" to participate in the show, said Michael Dennis of the public relations department for "You Bet Your Life." 
He stressed, however, that auditioners do not have to be too outlandish or incredible. "You don't have to have climbed Mount Everest -it can be anything," he said. An interesting hobby or an unusual story about yourself is sufficient, he added. 
All they really want is "people who are open and willing to share stories," he said. 
The interviewers will video tape the most interesting stories and send them to Philadel­phia to be reviewed by the producers of the show, said Dennis. Anyone chosen to partici­pate will be flown to Philadelphia, meet host Bill Cosby, and vie for the $10,000 bonus prize. 
"You Bet Your Life" premiered in the 1950s with Groucho Marx as host and returned this September in an updated version hosted by Bill Cosby. The show combines the "insight of a talk show with the intrigue of a game," bringing together participants who "represent every walk of life," according to The Carsey-Werner Company: 
Past contestants include a man who had an out-of-body experience that revealed his girlfriend had cheated on him, and a college student who does Bill Cosby impersonations. 
Contestants are paired and start out with $750, which they wager as they answer ques­tions. The team with the most money at the end of the game has the opportunity to return for the bonus round, where they can win $10,000, according to Carsey-Werner. 

SMC election constitution revised for efficiency 
By LAURA FERGUSON 
News Writer 
To create a less confusing, more efficient student govern­ment process at Saint Mary's College, several revising amendments were added to the campus election constitution concerning the student body elections and class elections, according to Tina Carrara stu­dent body president. 
The most drastic of these cl;tanges proposed by the Elec­'Itm Revision Committee is that the elections for Student Body officers and Class Officers will be held separately beginning this year. 
"There is too much confusion within the student body con­cerning these two elections. People don't know who is run­ning for which office and what these office positions entail. By separating the elections we hope to eliminate all this and allow student voters to focus on the issues," said Carrara. "We are also planning to provide a brochure for the students to 
see SMC I page 4 

page 2 Friday, November 20, 1992
The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Viewing the 
ocean or the 
pebble 

of life 


.::! 
Michael Hobbes 
Many years ago, the Advertising Manager great Houdini was in his heyday. People said that -------­he was the greatest magician that ever lived and the master locksmith. He boasted that he could get out of any jail cell in the world in less than one hour if he was allowed to enter the cell dressed in plain street clothes. A small town in the British Isles had built a new jail that they were tremendously proud of. They did not believe that anyone-not even Houdini-could get out of their jail. So they challenged him to give it a try. There was a lot of publicity and a lot o money involved. Houdini was fond of both, and so he accepted the challenge. 
He entered the jail amid much fanfare; the drums were pounding, the bugles were blaring and Houdini strided triumphantly into the jail cell. The door was closed behind him. Houdini took off his jacket; secreted in his belt was a ten inch piece of very durable, very flexible steel. He went to work on the lock. At the end of thirty minutes the confident, even arrogant expression on Houdini's face had disappeared. At the end of one hour he was absolutely bathed in perspiration. At the end of two hours, he actually became limp, collapsed from exhaustion and fell against the door-which opened. It had never been locked, except in Houdini's own mind. Which meant very simply that the door, as perceived in his mind, was locked more securely than if every locksmith in Britain had put their best locks on the door.(Adapted from Goals by Zig Ziglar) 
Everyone perpetrates this transformation o perception into reality at different times throughout their life. Currently it is the prospect of turning 21. For many people, today would be seen as the dawning of a new era in their life. They have been waiting and planning for this day as long as they can remember. They picture this one day as the sole doorway to a new, better life-the Mt. Everest in their flatlands. For these individuals who are so focused on the perception of the door and not its true characteristics, they miss the truly important idea. 
Don't get me wrong, if your life revolves solely around alcohol, then this day is personally important day. Yet, if you realize that the life that you have been living, planning and succeeding at up to this point will still be the same when you reach and go beyond this day, you will understand that such occurrences are solely determined to be significant by you, in your mind. 
Like Houdini, everyone can fall prey to another person's attempts to stop us temporarily, but we are the only one's who can stop ourselves on a permanent basis. If we perceive the door as just a door, we will view it as a pebble of sand at the oceanfront, but if we perceive the door as the penultimate door, we will view it as the entire ocean. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• Today's Staff: News Viewpoint Alicia Reale Allison Ebel Mike O'Hara Accent Production Jennifer Guerin Susan Marx Kenya Johnson Whitney Sheets Tomi Otey Terry Edwards Sports Quaalude Graphics 
Brendan Regan Lab Tech 
J. Lawrence Peters 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY AT AGLANCE 
NATIONAL Thanksgiving Meal held for Turkeys 
• TRENT, Pa. -Six turkeys at an animal shelter will be on the right side of a Thanksgiving feast on Sunday. The menu won't include any you know what. Green Acres Sanctuary Inc. is giving a meal of raw cranberries, pumpkin pie and greens for the turkeys that live at the shelter. "Turkeys really do like pumpkin pie," said shelter President Carole Morton. The shelter is selling tickets for humans to partake of a more extensive vege­tarian meal to raise money for the shelter for animals rescued from abusive or neglectful owners. The turkeys and other animals at the shelter are available for adop­tion. 
Guard Ends Search for Yachtsman 
• NEW YORK -The Coast Guard has ended its search for a yachtsman missing since Oct. 27 on a solo Atlantic crossing. Petty Officer David Silva said the six-day search for Mike Plant, 41, was ended Wednesday. The Coast Guard doesn't believe a man's body found off Cape Race, Newfoundland, Tuesday was that of Plant, he said. The last contact with Plant, of Jamestown, R.I., was 
OF INTEREST 
• 
Students for Environmental Action presents Earth Jam today in Stepan Center from 3-7 p.m. Dysfunktion; Sister Chain; Brian, Colin and Vince; and Grope for Luna will play. 

• 
International Student Leadership Institute will be held today at 5 p.m. and Saturday morning at 8 in the Carroll Auditorium. Please contact Saint Mary's Student Activities at 284-4562. 

• 
The Ink Spots will be Saturday at 8 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. For more information call 284­4595. 

• 
A Spanish mass will be held Sunday at 10:30 a.m. in the BP Chapel. Padre Robert Pelton will preside and all are welcome. 


MARKET UPDATE YESTERDAY'S TRADING 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSE INDEX 218,667.251 +1.78 to 232.87 S&P COMPOSITE +4.23 to 496.04 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS +14.05 to 3,207.37 

UNCHANGED 
564 


GOLD 
+ $0.80 to $335.20 
SILVER 
+ so.os to $3.763 

believed to have been a beacon signal picked up Oct. 27 by the Canadian Coast Guard. It was too weak to get a fix on the position. Plant, who has made three solo trips around the world, set out Oct. 16 from New York to Les Sables d'Olonne in France in a 60-foot sloop called Coy­ote. He was due in France on Oct. 30. Searchers in four Coast Guard C-130s and two Navy P-3 Orion anti­submarine patrol planes searched vast stretches of ocean northeast of Bermuda and the Azores. 
Superman's Death Highly Marketable 
• 
NEW YORK -A speeding bullet? Bah! The comic book detailing the death of Superman is selling faster than any comic ever, forcing a second press run "(o k,eep lip with demand, its· publishe"'i-'. said Thursday: The book -with an initial press run of about 3 million -arrived in stores Wednesday. Comic book stores had anticipated a heavy run on the book, with many doubling and tripling their usual orders. One Manhattan store ordered 50 times the usual number of Supermans. The Man of Steel is eliminated -temporarily, it will turn out -in a cataclysmic showdown with bad guy Doomsday. The su­per slayer also dies in the battle; Superman manages to save Metropolis before cashing in his chips. DC has al­ready said Superman will return sometime next year, although the details have not been released. 

• 
Irish Volleyball tri-match between ND, Michigan and Michigan State will be held Sunday beginning at noon. 


• Council on International Business Development 
mass is Sunday at noon in the Log chapel, followed by lunch in the South Dining Hall Faculty Dining Room and an all council meeting at 1:30 p.m. For more information call Amy Mark at 283-4012. 
• A Vespers Concert will be held Sunday at 7:15p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Notre Dame Orchestra will perform. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1718: English pirate Edward Teach, better known as "Biackbeard," was killed in a battle off the Virginia coast. 

• 
In 1789: New Jersey became the first state to ratify the Bill of Rights. 

• 
In 1945: Twenty-four Nazi leaders went on trial before an international war crimes tribunal in Nuremberg, Germany. 

• 
In 1975: After nearly four decades of absolute rule, Spain's Gen. Francisco Franco died in Madrid. 

• 
In 1989: More than 200,000 rallied peacefully in Prague, Czechoslovakia, demanding democratic reforms and the ouster of Communist Party leader Milos Jakes. 


f 
I_ 
page 3 

can lead 

t011SO,cial understanding JI\S()N WILLIAM$;i%Jtt Gamell sai.d his besitat 

comes from the motiva shortcomings of not onlynority students, but America 


TechnoJp~Y, can turn. the a whole. ofsoeial understanding "We're living in a u::t:;uu.t~~ui.Y eliminate the barriers of illiterate environment. We don aee()rd.ng to> J'()seph know what in the world is va'"'u,,l, inventor and president really going on," he J<lsoph GaQ)ellindn:stries, "People got to take risks on ideas. America is not doing ~a.tegpriz()d S()Cietal and as a result we're tni•nlnrtl 
in an effort to bring mi~ into a service economy. ,,n(>rtl~.Y s~~dent!l to grip~ .wi~h Increased interest in rtP.''-'Ahr~n­·• potential for invention. ing technology will not 
at .a pres~n~ati~~ benefit America fiscally, but by the> Minority Will also stir the embers of ra~ Enli{iniBCJ:ing Pr()gratn last night. cial ignorance, Gamoll said. inJour tonus: "I like that term, melting pot," 
DOlllttc;al. ectmomic and he said. "If you put all different kinds of folks in there and give it time, intelligent things will start happening, and the more integrated we become, t }.letter off our society wi be-period." '"''·He said his personal desire change the world sent him t1Je path to becoming an t(Jt and iruiovator in de•veli()pingl 
materials and n"''"'"'"' prove mechanical peJ1"m·numce. "The bladeless tn..·hi"'" 
one of the items we're ..~.,.,,..Jr,..._:l ing," he said. "We ha engjne-one that's totally lated to the bladele turbine-that the go1vermrten.tl has put under top secret, ..aJrUlllitl it's a threat to national ., .. ,,,...tt., ·Guess what? They're right." ameli, now living an 
Jn Minneapolis, present a motivational qn~H...-·hl to a local youth group, Life, today at 3:30 p.m ~outll Bend Hon:sing Au,tb(l!rifJr.l ~d once again tonight 
· at the Pentaeostal C:h11rr1-.1 in Christ. '"' 

News Writer 
"..  
~  
Jefferson  


Main & Jefferson 
H..illiD Mon-Th 11 a.m.-11 p.m. Fri-Sat 11a.m.-II p.m. 

NotaFranchise•AFamily Owned Business Sun 4 p.m.-9 p.m 
257 ... 1100 "This Is How Pizza Is Supposed To Taste" Authentic New York 'Pizza 
alzones • Hot and Cold Subs • Stromboli 3 and 6 foot Party Subs Dine In • Carry Out $2.00 off any pizza with Student ID 
Friday, November 20, 1992 The Observer 

Mazrui: African-Americans from everwhere need to find their roots 
darkness, said Rosetta Mvzigo
By TRACY CRINION 
of the Peace Studies depart­
News Writer 
ment. She agreed with Mazrui that "exploitation is a rich land 
African-Americans every­(Africa) being plundered. But where need to find their roots, we can't lament this forever ­said Professor Ali Mazrui at last we have to do something." night's showing of "Africa in the World." Conway Molusi, also of the 
lie said Africans everywhere Peace Studies department need to bond together as disagreed saying he felt that brothers and sisters to change although Professor Mazrui Africa from a third world nation asserts that something must be into an area ready for the done about Africa's exploita­
technology of the 21st century. tion, he offers no ideas as to what can be done. This leads to The event finished the nine "a fatalistic view of Africa ­film series titled "The Africans," the people of tomorrow." what can we do about it?" 
which was narrated and Mazrui portrayed Africa as op-Molusi said he felt that written by Professor Ali Mazrui pressed, with a heritage buried Mazrui blamed the economic and was accompanied by a in slavery and colonization. "It and political distress of Africa panel discussion to promote seems," stated Mazrui, "that the on its colonization too heavily. 
openness about vital issues American worship is even more He said that the blame also pressing African-American African than the African." rests on the post-colonization people today. Most children today view governments. 
Mazrui said he views Africans Africa as a nation of pagan Professor Abelhami Ajbar of as "the people of yesterday, and cannibals, enshrouded in the Chemical Engineering --------------------------, department said he saw 



The Observer 
is searching for students who have experience working with Aldus Freehand, Adobe Illustrator, or QuarkXpress to work in the Ad Design Department. Please contact Kevin Hardman at 239-7471 if interested. 
DATE: Nov. 23, 1992 PLACE: ND Room 
LaFortune 
TIME: 10 p.m. 
REFRESHMENTS SERVED 


Mazrui's views as pessimistic. Mazrui's calling for blacks in all nations to unite is foolish, according to Ajbar. 
Change should focus on nation, not on color. Africa is comprised of diverse cultures, needing the one common tie of nation to bring it together, said Ajbar. 
"The temple of privilege must be destroyed, and it must be replaced by the temple of equality," said Professor Peter Walshe of the Government department, agreeing with Mazrui's views that the traditional acceptance of the "rich decimating the poor" must be stopped in all nations, not Africa exclusively. 
....................................... 
•J'•J'•ri'•..•J'•J'•.........,.,.J'•J'
...................................... 
•ri'•J'•J'•J'•ri'•J'•......,.,.,.,•., 
-::~ ....................................
:..rf•......,.,.......... , ....... , ...
::!.....................................
:..'f•rl'•rl'•rl'•ri'•J'•rl'•...... ,. ...., ...
:_...................................... 
•ri'•J'•..•rl'•ri'•J'•J'•J'•ri'•J'•J'•rl'•rl' 
~~...,...............................
:.."f•rl'•fl'•rl'•rl'•ri'•J'•..•rl'•rl'•rl'•ri'•J'
.-::....................................
:..rf•rl'•...•rl'•rl'•rl'•ri'•J'•ri'•J'•J'•..•rl' 
:~ ...................................... 
•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•rl'•ri'•J'•ri'•J'•J'•ri'•..•J'
..................................... 
·!~!~!~!"!"!"!"!~!~!~!~!~~ 

Your Social Life's Been A Big Race, To Finally Reach 
21 Years. So, ND, If You Recognize this "FACE," 
From Us, PLEASE, Buy 
Him Some Beers! 

Happy 21st Michael! 
Dad, Mom, Chris, 

Jeff, & Ben 
P.S. Stay out of trouble Hobbes 


Amsterdam  $145*  
Madrid  $169*  
Guatemala  $145*  
Bangkok  $475*  

•Fares ~e each Wtlf from Chicago based oo a roundtnp purchase. T&<es not included and restrictions apply. Call for other v.orldwide destinations, both ooeWtlf and rOlrldtrip. 

Council Travwd 
1153 N. Deabom St. !ihd !loa Chicago,116061o 
311·951-0585 Call your FREE copy of the Student Travels Magazine 

~-~--------------~---------­
--~-------~ 
page 4 The Observer Friday, November 20, 1992 
SECURITY BEAT

Space telescope views disk around possible black hole 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Hubble Space Telescope has captured the most detailed view yet of an immense caldron of heat, violence and energy sur­rounding what may be a black hole, a celestial object 10 mil­lion times more massive than the sun. 
Astronomers said the photo­graph provides powerful sup­port for the theory of black holes by showing several of the 
SMC 
continued from page 1 

further explain the purpose and mission of student gov­ernment." 
This will also allow a longer transitional period for the offi­cers-elect which will in turn help accomplish long term goals via more communication between old and new officers. Officers are currently given less than one month to establish three boards of approximately 20 appointed representatives for the Board of Governance and Student Academic Counsel, according to Carrara. 
According to this same amendment, seniors will now be allowed to vote in Student Body elections. 
Another revision is that the new position of Student Activi­ties Board Coordinator (SABC) was created from the Vice­President of Student Affairs. According to the amendments, 

Show 
continued from page 1 
South Bend is just one stop on a road trip that takes "You Bet Your Life" all over the country looking for contestants, said Dennis. Chuck Vmson, the director of the show, comes from Elkhart and recommended the area as a "strong community with diverse people," said Dennis. 
He also noted the college en­vironment and said they were "always looking for young peo­ple." 
Auditions will take place Sat­urday at the Ramada Inn on 
U.S. Rte. 33 North. Anyone in­terested should call 800-942­9295 to schedule an audition. 
DIPPING IS FOR DIPS 

features predicted to surround them. 
Walter Jaffe of the Leiden Ob­servatory in The Netherlands said Thursday that a photo­graph taken by the orbiting Hubble Telescope gives a view into the middle of a galaxy that is spewing out energy at a gi­gantic rate. The image shows a swirling cloud of gas that ap­pears to be spiraling into a center where there could be a 
the SABC will be a non-elected position which will be ap­pointed in the fall semester or the semester before the new SABC will officially take office. The board to select the SABC will be composed of the Assis­tant Director of Student Activi­ties and the current Student Activities Board Coordinator. 
The final amendment defines the composition of the Student Body Executive Officers. They will be the Student Body Presi­dent, Vice President of Aca­demic Affairs and College Rela­tions, the Student Activities Board Coordinator, the Student Body Treasurer, and the Presi­dent of Residence Hall Associa­tion which was added to create more unity between Student Government and Residence Hall Association. 
In light of these recent changes in the election process mandatory informational ses­sions for anyone considering running for an office will be held on Dec. 2 and 3 at 7 p.m. in Haggar College Center. 
black hole, he said. 
"This is the best look we have ever had of the nuclear engine at the center of an active galaxy," Jaffe said at a news conference. "We haven't seen a black hole itself, but we're viewing as close to a black hole as we've ever seen before." 
The photograph is of a galaxy called NGC4261, one of many galaxies in the grouping known as the Virgo Cluster, about 45 


Trade 
continued from page 1 
where the next round of talks would be held. 

The United States announced earlier this month that it was slapping 200 percent taxes on $300 million worth of European products, primarily white wine, because of a failure to reach agreement on the removal of subsidies that the Bush administration claims cost American farmers $1 billion in lost sales annually of soybeans and other oilseed products. 
The two sides also spent Wednesday and Thursday ne­gotiating over the broader issue of all European farm subsidies. The United States is seeking large reductions in these subsi­dies as part of a global round of free trade talks. 
Those talks have been stale­mated for the past two years because of an inability to re-


ICEBERG DEBATE 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Interested in working on the Executive Committee for the 1993 Student Government Campus-Wide Student Debates? No Experience Necessary-Just Interest and Desire to get involved! If you are interested and would like more info, drop a note in Student Government (Iceberg Debates) or call Amy 


million light years from Earth. 
Jaffe said the galaxy was studied because radio tele­scopes, which study invisible radiation from stars, had de­tected a powerful signal. This signal, he said, came from two jets of material, stretching across almost 100,000 light years, that are streaking way from the galaxy at millions of miles an hour. Such jets are thought to be a feature of black holes. 
solve the US-EC farm subsidy dispute. 
Hills indicated that progress had been made both in the soybean dispute and the broader farm subsidy question. 
The punitive tariffs were an­nounced earlier this month after talks between the two sides broke down in Chicago. The wine dispute involves an American effort to scale back subsidies European farmers get to grow soybeans and other oilseed crops. 
The Bush administration claims those subsidies cost American farmers $1 billion in lost sales annually for crops that are used mainly to produce animal feed in Europe. 
The soybean fight was linked to a larger American effort to scale back all European farm subsidies as part of a new global free-trade agreement. Those talks, known as the Uruguay Round for the country where they began in 1986, have been stalled for the last two years over farm subsidies. 


N~; NOV. 16 i¥; 
Frl~y~ pep rally'££ ., . . .· , 
3:30 p.m. Notre Dame securitYr$$pl)llded to • .two vehicle accident on &Ita Rd. No lnjurlN were reported. :itfi' n­
6:56 p-m·;;~ University'8mployee rted that a windOw had been smashed outot his vehicle while the vehicle was parked at Ftanner Hall. 9:01' p,m; A Knott hall resident reported the theft of her biCycle from the bike rack oulsid$ ot her dorm. •«<>. ..~;;: 
9:32 p.m. Notre Dame SeCUrity assisted 1!!0 in Alumni Hall resident. The student wa$ trarisi)Orted by ambulance to the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
.::£~ftr¥1f{itf~· 
::;' ... TUES•• NOV. 17 
11:46 a.m. Notre Dame Security assisted a st~nt who had injured her ankle while playfng volleyball. The student was transported by ambulance to the St. Joseph Medical Center, .P' Y•. 
1:48 p.m. A Farley Hall r~ent rJi)orted the theft ot her ski gear from her dorm. 11 p;m. ·A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from a locker room at the JACq;•fif.;; g;:., 
ED., NOV. 18 a~>-= 
2:3'1 p.m. Notre Dame Security and Notre Dame Fire assisted a Knott Hall resident who had fallen on the ice at the JACC. The VIctim was transported by ambula~ to tha St. Joseph Medical Center. •f% 
5:42 p.m. Security investigated two suspicious males on-campus behfnd St John's convent. The men were escorted off-campus. 
THURS., NOV. 19 'it: 
11 a.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported the theft of his bicycle from the bike rack outside of his dorm 
11 :28 a.m. WNDU reported the theft of a flood light from outside the WNDU stUdios. 






KRAZE 
Now Open at Ironwood Plaza in South Bend Next to Martin's Supermarket 
Mon-Sat 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 
Sunday 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
All Ite111s $1 or Less 
Friday, November 20, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Mexico's Cardenas ends quest 
CIUDAD VICTORIA, Mexico (AP) -Opposition candidate Jorge Cardenas said Thursday he was canceling a protest campaign against fraud in the gubernatorial election so the government would free 74 of his imprisoned followers. 
The governing Institutional Revolutionary Party jailed Car­denas' followers throughout the northern state of Tamaulipas after violence protests broke out following the Nov. 8 elections, which the governing party said it won. 
Cardenas, the 67-year-old gubernatorial candidate for the opposition, had promised to mobilize his followers to get the elections annulled, including blocking bridges to Texas. One opposition leader called the vote "the worst fraud ever committed in Mexico." 
But Cardenas decided to abandon his protests after a meeting Wednesday with fed­eral government officials in Mexico City. 
"Due to recent occurrences, of which none of my followers is responsible and for which they have been jailed unjustly, I will not lead any popular fight," his statement read. 
A close family member, who spoke on condition of anonymity, citing fear of reprisal, said the Cardenas family had been threatened with jail and with losing a radio station in Matamoros and other businesses they own in the state. 
UN clamps arms embargo on Liberia 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The Security Council on Thursday authorized the use of force cut shipments of military supplies to rebel fighters in the war­ravaged West African nation of Liberia. 
In a unanimous vote, the 15­member council approved an embargo under the same U.N. provisions used to punish Yu­goslavia and Iraq. The purpose of the measure is to bolster ef­forts by a seven-nation West African force to defeat guerrilla leader Charles Taylor. 
Tens of thousands of people have been killed or have starved to death in Liberia since Taylor invaded from Ivory Coast in December 1989. 
The resolution calls for all belligerents in Liberia to ob­serve a cease-fire and honor a peace process leading to dis­armament and free elections for a new government. 
The foreign ministers of 

Benin, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Togo, and Liberia's interim government took the floor to condemn Taylor's assault on Monrovia and his rejection of peace accords that he had signed. 
Western diplomats fear being drawn into the Liberian conflict, and want to limit U.N. in­volvement to political and other non-military support for the West African peacekeeping force. 

HOLIDAY SAVINGS Bring this ad and receive an additional 20% off the already reduced price of our classic wool rollneck. 

701 Lighthouse Place Michigan City, IN (219) 873-9292 
*Intermediate markdowns may have been taken. Offer valid while supplies last. Not valid with any other offer. 
may submarines 
Rttssi'~ had a totaft!:or 86 submarines ofvarious types stationed with its Far East Fleet, including 25 Yankee and Iklta class submarines at the Pavlovskoye base, just north of the Korean Peninsula on the Sea of Japan. 
During a visit focused on 

. winning economic aid and investment, Yeltsin also said he had settled disagreements over Russia's debt with South Korea and cleared the way for a $15 billion natural gas pipeline from Siberia to Seoul. H<ln trust~buUding moves, Yeltsin indicated he would abrogate a 1961 defense agreement with Communist North Korea, and he handed over the ''black box" containing the flight 
· •· · · .. ··recorder of Korean Airlines Flight 007, which was shot down~y Soviet jets bi 1983 . after"violating Soviet air 
Decrees ban women from night work 
KHARTOUM, Sudan (AP) ­Sudan's Muslim fundamentalist government has issued new decrees that ban women from working in markets and other public places after 5 p.m., an official newspaper reported Thursday. 
The decrees also require all shops to close down two hours for Friday noon prayers, the army daily al-Kuwat al­Musalaha said. 
Sudan's Muslim fundamental­ist government has taken a number of steps affecting women, such as requiring fe­male ministry employees to cover their hair, as Islam de­mands. It also has banned men from working in hair salons for women. 
In another development re­lated to Sudan's separation of the sexes, the newspaper re­ported confusion over who should sit where on public buses. The government had restricted women to the back of the bus, but after women's or­ganizations protested, it moved the women's section to the front. 
No one is quite sure where to sit, the newspaper reported. 
International Banquet 
Center for Social Concerns Sat., Nov. 21, 1992 6-8:30p.m. 
Tickets available 
at LaFortune 

lnfonnation Desk 

~--------·~-­-~ -~­- 
page 6  The Observer  Friday, November 20, 1992  


Barbara meets with Hillary 
Cautions her to avoid reporters 'like the plague' 
r-------------------------, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:. 
: Save 50¢ : The Becker CPA Review Course 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Bar­bara hugged Hillary, showed her around the White House 
and  cautioned  about  one  
downside of living there:  Re­ 
porters.  

"Avoid this crowd like the plague," said Bush, gesturing to the reporters and photogra­phers crowded together on the South Lawn. "If they quote you, make damn sure they heard you." 
"That's right," Clinton said with a hearty laugh. "I know that feeling already." 
The first lady had waited with her dogs, Millie and Hanger, outside the South Portico. Clin­The Observer/Scot1 Mendenhall .ton's limousine stopped several feet away. She stepped out, patted the dogs and walked to greet Bush. 
The women brushed cheeks, held hands as they walked to­ward the entrance and put their 
Bush's mother, Dorothy, dies at 91 

GHEENWICI-1, Conn. (AP) ­Dorothy Bush, a senator's wife who taught her son George with "generous measures of both love and discipline" and lived to see him elected to the White House, died Thursday. She was 91. 
Mrs. Bush, who had suffered a stroke, died shortly after 5 
p.m. at the family home here, said spokesman Marlin Fitzwater in Washington. President Bush had flown here from Washington on Thursday morning to be with his mother but was back in the capital when she died. 
After her son was elected in 1988, Mrs. Bush said: "I've been ready to have him be president, since he chose to work for it, but I pray to God 
for  him  because  it's  the  
toughest job in the world."  
President  Bush  said  his  

mother and father, the late Sen. Prescott Bush, were the most important people in his life. His 1987 autobiography, "Looking 
1 when you buy a medium or large waffle cone of 1 1 frozenyogurt.InOriginal,Nonfatand 1 
1 Sugar Free Nonfat. I 
I Offer good only at participating full sized I Can't Believe It's Yogurt® I I stores. Coupon not vaild with any other olfer. Offer expires 11125/92.1 
I I
We Put ASmile On Your Taste!" 

1 THE TASTE THAT'S WON THE WORLD OVER.'" I 
1 c,..,,c..·1635'£dr;~~Rd~···h·USA 1 I 271-9540 I 
L--------(~~k~a!a.LN.£~'!i::r:.!.> ________.J 

MoHICANS 
The Last of the Mohicans R  lii1  
Fri: 4:30, 7:00. 9:30  ~  
Sat-Sun: 1:30 4:30, 7:00, 9:30  

$3.501--
........ 
All Shows Boloro 6 pm ~~f 
MIGH


DUCKS
The Mighy Ducks PG Fri: 5:00. 7:15, 9:15 Sat-Sun: 2:00 5:00, 7:15, 9:15 
Forward," is dedicated to both parents. 
"They believed in an old­fashioned way of bring up the family -generous measures of both love and discipline," he wrote. 
"Dad taught about us about duty and service," Bush wrote. "Mother taught us about deal­ing with life on a personal ba­sis, relating to other people." 

Just before he took the oath of office as president on Jan. 20, 1989, Bush spotted his mother on the platform, leaned over to give her a kiss and said, 
~t_._r ~c';::\_ ___ . 212-a124 
·?.!_ urtle .~ /reel;; 
Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/10 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1&2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
Affordable Student Hou$ing 
"Many of our family are here and they all, as does this son, worship the ground she walks on." 
The president regularly vis­ited his mother at her home here or her winter home in Jupiter Island, Fla. 
Mrs. Bush's 90th birthday in .July 1991 was an occasion for a rare reunion of all five of her children at the family com­pound in Kennebunkport, Maine. Gathered with President Bush were his sister, Nancy Ellis, and brothers Prescott Jr., Jonathan and William "Bucky" Bush. · 
-l!or the May 1993 CPA ExamJ • .,, b c • l L d
w l e 0 n v enlent y 0 cate at s • ' C ll S • Jl ll
711

alnt 1'~ ary s o ege Clence a -Lower Level­
•17 
Week Monday-Wednesday Evening Course Beginning with Special Early Classes on 11130 & 1212 

•
First 6 Lectures Free 

• 
Earn Tuition Free Continuing Help in Over 125 Locations 

•Special 
Student Discount 

•30o/o 
Free Repeat to All Former Students 

•Schedule 
Information for All125 Locations 


Call 277-4366 for More Information 

Hillary Clinton 

arms around one another as they stepped inside. They toured the Executive Mansion with no aides or reporters along for about an hour. 
As she waited for Clinton, the first lady answered reporters' shouted questions about her recent house-hunting trip to Houston. 
"I looked at 21 houses, de­cided to build, talked to the ar­chitect and have the plans," Bush said of the couple's intent to build on a lot they own. 
? 
•
?
• ?•?• ?•?•?•
?
• ?•?•?•?
• ?•?• 
? 
?• ?• ?• ?•
?
• 
? 
?
• 
?
•
? 
Practically Speaking••••• 

AD. mustratecl Lecture br 
JOHN H. GORDON, E~D 
*Consultant NOVA (PBS)*Consultant 20/ZO(ABC)* Consultant. Kennedy(NBC)
• 
* Advisor. California State Archives 
Monday, November 23 
§AB
7p.m• 
, 3TUDE~~: 
· ACTIVITIES,

• Carroll Hall 
:soARC 

SI donation al the door, proceeds will go to lhe St. Jude Athletic Association 
In the meantime, Bush said, she and her husband will rent a home after they leave the White House Jan. 20. 
For the Clintons and their 12­year-old daughter, Chelsea, the move will mean much more room than they've had for 12 of the last 14 years. 
In Little Hock, the private quarters of the governor's mansion have 1,800 square feet 
two bedrooms, four bathrooms, a den and a sitting room. 
In Washington, the living quarters of the White House have 14,000 square feet. 

The White House has 29 fireplaces, three elevators and hundreds of rooms, including the Lincoln bedroom and the Yellow Oval Room with its breathtaking view of the Washington Monument and the .Jefferson Memorial. 


.--.----~------------------------------------------~--------------~--------------~---------------------, 
Friday, November 20, 1992 The Observer 

Former death row inmate freed 
PHOENIX (AP)-A former death row inmate once just 36 hours away from being executed walked out of court a free man Thursday after pleading no-contest to reduced charges in the fiery deaths of his two young daughters. 
To avoid a fourth trial on first-degree murder charges, John Henry Knapp pleaded no-contest to two counts of second-degree murder and was sentenced to time served. 
In a no-contest plea, a defendant doesn't admit guilt but offers no defense. The person is then judged guilty and punished as if he had been convicted or pleaded guilty. 
"I would never plead guilty to my daughters' deaths. I am innocent and always have been iimocent 
Teen sex drops; AIDs education increasing 
ATLANTA (AP) -The high number of American teenagers having risky sex is slowly dropping and schools are in­creasing education about AIDS, federal health authorities re­ported Thursday. 
There's no way to know how much of the drop in teen sex is because of school efforts. Still, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention urged schools to begin education about HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, in kindergarten and intensify it by the ninth grade. 
"IllY education can be most effective when it's integrated as part of a comprehensive 

t 

Show yourfamily FLORAL CO. you miss them Inc. on Thanksgiving! 
,., , __ 327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
"'-""'. 232-3354 
Mary B. Green 
Come in and Browse Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
1992·93 SEASON ~ 
NOTRE DAME CJ!S. ~ 
COMMUNICATION ..._________, 
&THEATRE P R E S E N T S Theatre 

of this charge," Knapp told Judge Daniel Nastro of Maricopa County Superior Court. 
"This plea allows me to put an end to an ordeal that has went on for 19 years," he said. 
Before his re-arrest in 1990, the former cab driver had two hung juries, a conviction, two death sentences and a reprieve by the courts 36 hours before he was to go to the gas chamber in 1987. 
Knapp served nearly 15 years behind bars, 12 on death row, but has recently been living near Pittsburgh while prosecutors in Phoenix decided whether to bring him to trial a fourth time. 
Deputy County Attorney Cleve Lynch said prosecutors offered the plea agreement because some 
kindergarten-through-grade 12 health education program," said Dr. Lloyd Kolbe, the CDC's director of adolescent and school health. 
"It's just as important as science and math." 
That doesn't mean discussing condoms with first-graders, Kolbe said. 
"In the early grades it's im­portant that young people start to understand that they can in­fluence their own health," he said, advocating that courses gradually become more spe­cific. "You don't come into the 12th grade and provide two days of HIV education and ex-

RESERVED SEATS: $7 STCDEKT &SENIOR CITIZEti DISCOl:tiTS ARE AVAILABLE WED.. TH!:RS. A~D Sl:K. TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE LA FORTCKE TICKET OFFICE. MasterCard and Visa orders call: 2l9-8128 
wed  nov 18  8:10pm  
thurs  nov 19  8:10pm  
frj  nov 20  8:10pm  
sat  nov 21  8:10pm  
sun  nov 22  3:10pm  


evidence had been de­stroyed since 1974 and there was no guarantee that Knapp would be convicted again. 
"It could have gone either way. It would have been a gamble," Lynch said. "It would have been great to get first-degree murder because he really did do it, but you have to be realistic." 
The change of plea in Nas­tro 's courtroom ended a case that once turned on Knapp's later-recanted confession but then became focused on new evidence that indicated he could be innocent of starting the fire that killed his daughters. 
The case started Nov. 16, 1973, with the deaths of Knapp's daughters -Linda 
A little chat 
Louise, 3, and Iona Marie, 2 -at the family's Mesa 
Father Tom McDermott discusses homesless issues with students at the sleep
home. 

out. The event was held at Stepan Center. 
pect that to be sufficient." 
Nationwide, school systems and parents are grappling with how much children need to learn about AIDS and at what age. Hundreds of Georgia par­ents this month opposed a state proposal for AIDS education in elementary schools. 
In New York City, the nation's largest school system, AIDS education begins with general discussion in kindergarten; fourth graders are taught how HIV is transmitted and sixth graders are told of the risks of anal sex. The curriculum's effectiveness is still being evaluated. 
"The debate will come down to where people draw the line to introducing lifestyles to young people who are unaware of them," said New York City school board member Michael Petrides, who succeeded in getting abstinence emphasized in the courses. 

Uist:()"Ve.-~
.J 
tiiCk()O' 

Viilaue 
From the day you move in, our excellent staff will give you quality, personal­ized service. 
Look at some of the great advantages Hickory Village offers: 

• 
Beautifully Landscaped • Attentive Staff Grounds • Balcony or Patio 

• 
Clubhouse • 24-hour Emergency 

• 
Neat & Clean Laundry Maintenance Service Facilities • Air Conditioning 

• 
Cable TV Available • Planned Activities 

• 
Disposal • Free Aerobics 

• 
Sparkling Pool • Close To Shopping 


Stop by today and discover quality, affordable living_ 
Efficiencies from $255 1-Bedrooms from $270 2-Bedrooms from $330 


272-1880 
+llCKORij DlLLAqEf'A 
Mon.-Fri. 9-7, 

Sat. 1o-4 &Sun. 12-4 
page 7 


The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 

Undercover black officer mistaken for mugger 
NEW YORK (AP) -The police officers working undercover to root out crime in the subway thought they had stumbled onto a mugging when they saw a black man holding a gun on a woman while a white man ri­fled her pocketbook. 
Within seconds, the two white Transit Authority officers un­leashed 21 rounds of gunfire. One even stopped to reload, then resumed firing before re­alizing they had shot a fellow undercover officer who was trying to make an arrest, as of­ficials recounted the Tuesday night confrontation. 
By Thursday, the 2,600­member police force that pa­trols the city's 215-mile subway system was making plans for new sensitivity training to keep 
-r 

minority officers from becoming victims of "friendly fire." 
Officer Derwin Pannell, 26, was in serious but guarded condition at a hospital with a bullet in his neck. At least two other shots were blocked by the officer's bulletproof vest, which transit police spokesman AI O'Leary said saved his life. 
Pannell and his partner, Kenneth Donnelly, had chased a woman to a dimly lighted, street-level section of a Brook­lyn train station after she al­legedly evaded the subway's $1.25 fare. 
That's when a team of three white, anti-crime officers -two men and a woman -arrived, O'Leary said. Authorities said the female officer did not fire, but the two men did. 
"It was a tragic case of mis­taken identity," said Transit Po­lice Chief Michael O'Connor. "These officers do not go out dressed like police officers. The utmost care must be extended. They might not always look like that old Irish cop on TV." 
Flanked by two black police officers and a Hispanic officer, O'Connor said his department will work with police groups representing minorities so that blacks and Hispanics working undercover will not be assumed to be criminals. 
Thursday's announcement came after some black officers said the shooting shows that their white colleagues must be taught "that the black guy wearing Adidas sneakers and a backwards baseball cap might be a cop." 
Better training is needed, said Officer Eric Adams, vice president of the Grand Council of Guardians, which represents black officers from six law en­forcement agencies. 
"We must have training for all officers," Adams said Thursday. "Because the person you believe is a perpetrator may be a homeowner, shopowner or police officer." 
Undercover police usually wear a wristband or the "color of the day" when working so they can be identified by fellow officers. The color of the day Tuesday was white but O'Connor said he did not yet know if the undercover unit was wearing white. 
O'Connor refused to speculate about possible racism. He conceded that one of the factors that led to the shooting might have been that Pannell is black. 
page 8 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Euro Disneyland posts loss 
•PARIS -The EuroDisneyland theme park, beset by low crowds and French hostility, today posted a loss of nearly $36 million in its first fiscal year and said it is unlikely to show a profit next year. The park may reduce the $42 entry fee during the winter to attract visitors, Euro Disney president Philippe Bourguignon told a news conference. The entry fee is high by European standards, and is cited by many French citizens as their reason for not visiting the park. Even so, Euro Disney's 1991-92loss was less than the market's estimates, which ranged from $38 million to $57 million. In the 1992-93 fiscal year, the company expects a loss during the first six months in the winter season, following by a "significant improvement" afterward. The year's balance will nonetheless be in the red. 
JAL's Co·pH~ts union strikes 
IITOKYO -A union representing Japan Air­lines co-pilots and flight engineers O:rdered a one-day strike for higher bonuses Wednesday, forcing the airline to. cancel three international flights. JAL has non-union pilots fill in for strikers. It was not clear how many co-pilots and flight engineers heeded the strike call. Three of 48 international flights scheduled Wednesday were canceled, but the airline's 152 domestic flights were.not affected, said Shinichi Yamashita, an airline spokesman. JAL is offering a winter bonus that amounts to 2.5 
times a co-pilot's monthly base pay. 
Trade deficit bjts two Year high 
IIWASHINGTON -The U.S. trade deficit re· mained stuck near a two*year high in September as imports surged to a record level, offsetting a sharp rise in exports, which also hit an all-time high, the governmeJJ.t said today. The Commerce Department said that the overall deficit, the difference between imports and exports, was $8.31 billion in September, down only slightly from a deficit of $8.95 billion in August. Both figures represented America's worst trade performance since November 1990. 
Sony's profits plunge 60 percent 
IITOKYO -Sony Corp., one ofthe world's leading consumer electronics makers which also owns major U.S. moviemakingand musie opera· tions, said Thursday its profit plunged 60.2 per­cent in the first halfof its fiscal year. The com­pany earned 17.9 billion yen; .or about $150.5 million, ona consolidated basis in the six months ended Sept. 30. Consolidated sales rose 
4.8 percent to 1.9 trillion yen, or $15.97 billion, from 1.813 trillion yen a year ago. The company said the slow economic recovery in the United States, more pronounced stagnation in Europe and a decline in personal spending in Japan hurt its overall results. 
----------~~­
Business 
Friday, November 20, 1992 

Entrepreneurs find market niche 
By JOHN CONNORTON 
Business Writer 
Cactus Jack's, South Bend's newest Mexican restaurant, is open for business. Owned and operated by Notre Dame graduate Kevin Murphy and Tim Mulligan, Cactus Jack's boasts quick, authentic Mexican cui­sine. 
The idea behind Cactus Jack's was hatched in a San Diego bar early last year. Murphy and Mulligan, friends since kindergarten in San Diego, be­gan planning Cactus Jack's immediately upon Mulligan's graduation from San Diego State and Murphy's return from the Persian Gulf and his completion of his naval commitment. 
"It's always been Tim's dream to open a restaurant," said Lisa Ward, 1992 Notre Dame graduate and Murphy's girlfriend. "Kevin had the location and Tim had the know­how." 
The two began the difficult process of building a restaurant from the ground up last year. Murphy and Mulligan financed the restaurant with loans from banks as well as from their parents. 
"My mom and dad refinanced their home to help with the restaurant," said Mulligan." Kevin refinanced his home in South Bend, and his mother is a cash partner with an interest in Cactus Jack's. 
South Bend was the obvious starting point for the first Cactus Jack's, said Ward. Murphy graduated from Notre Dame in 1989, and was familiar with South Bend. 
Seeing that Notre Dame had no real Mexican restaurant, the two moved quickly, opening Cactus Jack's in early November, after construction delays. 
Although Cactus Jack's has just opened, the two are optimistic for the future. They plan to open a drive-thru as soon as their operating capital permits. Delivery service is not far in the future, Murphy said. "Also we are currently negotiating with a cab company to deliver to campus," continued Murphy. The company will charge a three or four dollar premium on deliveries, which will be tacked onto the customer's 
Accounting firm donates 
bill. 
Murphy expects competition from Taco Bell, the fast food chain specializing in Mexican food. However, he believes Cactus Jack's emphasis on fresh, healthy food prepared daily will win over customers tired of Taco Bell's pre­processed meals. 
Cactus Jack's is still in its infancy, but already Murphy and Mulligan are planning to open restaurants at the Universities of Michigan and Illinois. 
"We believe that we have an idea that would work great in any college town," Murphy said. 
Although very pleased by Cactus Jack's initial success, Murphy emphasized how difficult the whole process was. 
"It cost about twice as much money and twice as much time as you would expect," he said. "In this recession and unstable economy, all future en­trepreneurs should not begin any kind of business unless there is a demand, and you're certain you're in the right location, and you've got the money to do it." 
Clinton 

grant; tackles issue of ethics perfect for 
By JOHN CONNORTON behavior, and accountants must 
Business Writer constantly reevaluate their personal 
muni bonds

situations, said Leamon. Deloitte & Touche, one of the nation's NEW YORK (AP) -Amongleading accounting firms gave a lecture Deloitte & Touche's stated policy is 
all the specialized

emphasizing the importance of business that every person is an independent communities that make up the ethics along with presenting the moral agent capable of making choices world of Wall Street, none isUniversity of Notre Dame with a check and accountable for the consequences 
any more elated about the

for $35,000 on Tuesday night. of these choices. 
choice of Gov. Bill Clinton for

Intended as a matching gift for "As a lirm, where the risk is greater 
the -presidency than the

contributions given by Notre Dame than the reward, we are ready to walk municipal bond crowd. 
alumni working for Deloitte & Touche, away from a business situation," said the money is going to used to "support Leamon. "General opinion seems to be By just about anybody's faculty research and curriculum that while unethical behavior may reckoning, Clinton's plans for development within the accounting create short term gain, in the longterm, tax and economic policy figure program at the University," said Mark we will profit more from ethical behav­to be a boon to dealers in Chain, National Director of Hecruiting ior." these securities, which pay for Deloitte & Touche. At one point in his lecture, Leamon interest that is exempt from 
The lecture was presented by Jerry posed the question, "Is there materiality federal income tax. 
Leamon, National Managing Director of to ethical behavior, or does the amount But before you join in the 
Tax Services for the firm. of money involved determine how one general rush to invest in tax­Leamond told the audience of Notre makes an ethical decision?" The exempts, financial advisers
Dame accounting majors that "the question led to a prolonged silence in 
say there are several

public must be able to rely on our the room full of accounting majors. 
important points to ponder.

integrity as certified public Leamon expected the upcoming "A federal income tax in­
accountants." presidency of Bill Clinton to have a 
"There are few professions that positive affect on the accounting crease for high-bracket require so much in ethical behavior of business. He noted that Clinton had taxpayers is likely after Jan. the participants than in the field of expressed the desire to raise taxes on 1," observes Norman Fosback, public accounting," Leamon continued. upper levels of income, and that any editor of the investment letter There are too many opportunities in change in that tax structure will raise Income & Safety in Fort public accounting to fall into unethical interest in accounting firm. Lauderdale, Fla. 
'Tax-free funds (investing in 
municipal securities) are

Housing starts drop to three month low in October 
attractive now for taxpayers 

WASHINGTON (AP) -Hous­ing starts fell an unexpected 1.1 percent in October to their lowest level in three months, the government said today. 
Single-family construction rose for the third straight month but was offset by a big drop in apartment building. 
Building activity declined in all regions except for the Mid­west, where it took a double­digitjump. 
The Commerce Department said construction of new ~ingle­family homes and apartments totaled 1.23 million at a sea­sonally adjusted annual rate, down from 1.24 million a month earlier. The economic consensus predicted a 1.28 mil­lion rate for October. 
The department also revised September's increase to an even weaker 0.8 percent, from 
1.4 percent in its original esti­mate last month. The October rate was the lowest since 1.10 
million last July. 
Following the July mark, housing starts began to rise, boosted in part by falling mort­gage rates. A 12.1 percent surge in August was the largest increase since a 19 percent gain in February 1991. 

Analysts had said size of the August advance could not be sustained and that building ac­tivity would improve at a more moderate pace for the rest of the year. 
In addition, mortgage rates averaged 8.13 percent in Octo­ber, up from 7.84 percent in mid-September, which had been the lowest since they dropped to 7.76 percent in June 1973. 
Rates have continued to rise, averaging 8.32 percent last week, the highest since they hit 
8.48 percent during the week 
ended last June 26. Single-family starts increased grown each month since July. 

But the often-overbuilt multi­family sector plunged 11.8 per­cent to a 157,000 rate. It was the second straight decline. 
For the first 10 months of the year, overall starts still were 
19.1 percent above the same period of 1991, when the housing industry was emerging from the recession. 
The October drop followed two consecutive declines in new home sales, which often de­press builder incentive. Sales were down 1 percent in September and 1.6 percent in August. The department is scheduled to release the Octo­ber new home sales report on Dec. 2. 
Still, applications for building 

permits rose 1.1 percent in October after a 4.6 percent increase a month earlier. 
0.7 percent in October, to a 1.07~ million rate. This sector has This included a 4.7 percent 
in the 28 percent or higher

increase in single-family appli­
brackets. They will become 

cations to a 956,000 annual even more attractive as tax 
rate, the highest since 963,000 rates rise." 
in February 1990. A tangible increase in the appeal of tax-free bonds, of 

Housing 
course, occurs only for peoplestarts whose marginal tax rate actu­Seasonally adjusted ally rises. 
annual rate, The president-elect has millions of units 
indicated that he plans to 

1.4 propose a higher rate only for single taxpayers with adjusted 
1.3 
gross incomes of more than $150,000, and married 

1.2 
couples at $200,000 and up. 
If that line of demarcation holds, investors at lower in­come levels won't see any more benelit from municipals than exists now. 

0·9 
In fact, the attraction could 

well be less if heightenedi~ M A M J J A S 0 
demand from upper-income

1891
Oct.• Sept. •92 Oct.• 
investors pushes prices higher 
91 92
I 
and yields lower in the

I 1.09 I I 1 .24 II 1.23 
municipal market~-· 

----------------------------------___ .. ··------~---.......____________... ·······-~---------------§~~-~5. ee.et2!~2'!!.'!!.e~-----.... ---..-~!!­
! 
l __ 
Viewpoint 
Friday, November 20, 1992 page 9 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Edltor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Edltor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Edltor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor. Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Subcommittee on SYR's plans to visit dormitories 
Dear Editor: 
Last April when the 1992-93 Campus Life Council (CLC) met for the first time, I proposed a resolution to decrease the re­quired percentage needed for an All-Hall Semi-Formal (SYR). 
As the CLC discussed dorm participation in this issue, I re­alized that there existed other more important problems with the SYR and that reducing the necessary attendance rate for SYR's would not greatly im­prove the present SYR situa­tion. 
I have received the CLC's ap­proval to establish a subcom­mittee that will look into ways of improving SYR's at Notre Dame. Please know that we only want to improve the pre­sent situation. 
My subcommittee feels that the only way to come up with these improvements is to talk directly with the student body and listen to their ideas and suggestions for improvement. 
In the next few weeks, we will be coming to each dorm to meet with its residents. We en­courage students to attend the meeting in their dorm and share with us their comments and ideas. 
After all, SYR's are for the students. They are intended to promote social interaction among Notre Dame students, and we would like to do everything reasonable to im­prove the SYR situation and make it the best that it has ever been. 
This is a student effort, and we would like to thank the CLC and the Office of Student Affairs for being supportive and en­couraging of our idea. We established this subcommittee because, as student leaders, we are here to serve you and to help make campus life at Notre Dame as great as it can possibly be. 
We look forward to meeting with you soon and listening to your comments and sugges­tions. 
Marianne Ravry HPC Co-Chair CLC Member 
Nov. 18, 1992 

Organizers of Cropwalk saythanksforsupport 
Dear Cropwalk Participants: munity obtain the goal of 
Thank you for your enthusi­25,000 dollars. Good luck in fu­asm and help in making the ture endeavors to relieve world 1992 Saint Joseph County hunger. Cropwalk a success. 43 Notre Craig Anzilotti Dame and 12 Saint Mary's stu­World Hunger Coalition dents walked the six mile Kathy Royer course through South Bend. Center for Social Concerns 
We raised over 1,000 dollars Nov. 18, 1992 helping the South Bend com-
DOONESBURY 
Mob rule after Penn State game 
Dear Editor: 
Following the incredible comeback of the Notre Dame football team on Saturday, a euphoric celebration began. I thought this was wonderful, and I participated in it. 
However, immediately thereafter a mass mentality arose, with chants of "Rush the field!" and "Tear down the goalposts ! " And so the student section commenced to pile up and lean forward in anticipation of the last second ticking off the clock. And when it did, the mob ruled. 
I had hoped that after the let­ters last year condemning such actions by the mother of a boy who was almost crushed in such a scene, that a more re­sponsible attitude would have prevailed this weekend. 
Yet, it did not: clearly we have not learned our lesson and need to be constantly reminded of the potential harm we can inflict on others, as if we were in grade school. 
I can understand the desire to share in the victory with the team on the field. I can under­stand an inevitable haste within that desire. I can understand that as such this rush to the field would not be orderly or exactly civil. I cannot under­stand the total disregard for the safety of our fellow students and friends. 
Since this weekend, I have heard of people who were seri­ously injured in this melee. Ev­eryone I know who was on the field has expressed the fear they felt that day: one friend described the experience as having the life force sucked out of her. This process of causing harm, injury and terror began in the stands. 
People were knocked down before ever reaching the field. One girl was trampled upon on the field while futilely crying for help to her own friends and peers. 
An entire nation watched in awe as this rush seemed to swarm over members of our own football team, who could barely move, let alone celebrate the victory. Was this supposed to be a demonstration of our school spirit? 
People have already ex­pressed outrage at the treat­ment of these merely celebrat­ing students by the police on the field. Yet those on the field are just as guilty for their own treatment of the students. 
It outrages me even more that those people who have spent their years here together at Notre Dame, in mutual ac­knowledgment of the Christian community and caring atmo­sphere, should act so abhor­rently. 
I am truly disappointed in the selfish, almost barbaric behav­ior of my fellow students. Maybe my expectations are too high, but I just cannot imagine how such a callous, irrational and destructive display repre­sents the student body with which I have associated myself for over the past three years. 
I am not writing because of bad feelings toward anyone who felt the desire to and actually did rush the field. I only wish to say that we are certainly better than what we showed ourselves to be on Saturday. 
And I hope those students who will be so lucky to end future seasons on a positive note will take this letter to heart and act more responsibly on that occasion. I wanted to celebrate with my friends,too, but my joy had too quickly changed into concern for those in the stands, including a friend who was knocked down. 
Please, if you get the chance to participate in an end of the season celebration, make sure is a shared moment of joy within a community, whose members are relying on you to keep in mind their safety. 
Kelley Campanaro Off-Campus 
Nov.18,1992 


GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 

~ -----~----~----­
Viewpoint
page 10 Friday, November 20, 1992 
Bill Cl_inton wants to have his cake and eat it, too 
lrfan Khawaja
Dirty Laundry 

You won't find many people in daily life who think that they can have their cake and eat it too. Most of us have learned­perhaps the hard way-that if you eat your cake, it goes into your stomach, which precludes the possibility of having it, and vice versa. 
"Most of us" apparently does not include President-Elect Bill Clinton. Consider Clinton's atti­tude towards what he likes to call "trickle down economics." 
"Trickle down economics" or "supply side economics"-was the basic principle of economic policy under Ronald Reagan (not George Bush). Supply-side economics was the theory that the free market works best on its own, without government intervention. 
Nothing kills economic growth, the Carter debacle taught us, like taxation and inflation, both of which are caused by government. And nothing stifles entrepreneurial initiative like government regu­lation-whether you're talking about a Fortune 500 company, or an immigrant vendor selling chili dogs on Fifth Avenue. 
The jury is still out on the ul­timate merits and demerits of the "supply side revolution." But this much is clear: Reagan's lowering of marginal tax rates, along with his deregulatory policies, were responsible for the largest peacetime ex­pansion of the U.S. economy in American history (1983-1990). 
His monetary policies helped bring inflation and interest rates under control, which in turn made the 1980s a decade of booming productivity and innovation. The 80s gave us (among other things) VCRs, cable TV, fiberoptic technolo­gies, cellular phones, faxes, e­mail, Apple Computers, auto­mated teller machines, Wal­Mart, and the fitness craze­not to mention 18 million new jobs. 

You won't grasp the impor­tance of this if you've been brainwashed by movies like "Wall Street," and think of the 80s as one long series of "insider trading" scandals. (Honestly, how many people know what "insider trading" is, anyway?) 
But the unprecedented productivity of the 80s didn't just come out of nowhere. After all, it lay dormant for decades under the disastrous economic policies of Reagan's predecessors. No one who blames supply side economics for our current economic woes can deny that fact-or explain it. 

Along comes Bill Clinton, who tells us that "trickle down eco­nomics has been tried for 12 years and it's failed." Clinton, you see, stands for a "new ap­proach" to economics, which is neither "trickle down eco­nomics" nor "tax and spend economics." It's "invest and grow" economics. What does that mean? 
It means that Clinton wants to use tax revenues and spend them on business, in the hopes that the resulting prosperity will, er... trickle down to the rest of the economy. In other words, Clinton's "new approach" is just "trickle down economics" plus "tax and spend economics." Revolutionary, isn't it? 
How do we explain Clinton's economic schizophrenia? Easy. 
Clinton wants to be a fiscal conservative while pretending that he's against supply side economics, and he wants to tax and spend like crazy without reminding people of Jimmy Carter. 

So he cooks up a cock-and­bull story about a "new ap­proach" to economics. I.e., he tries to have his cake and eat it. Or more accurately, our cake. 
Don't be fooled by all the silly rhetoric about taxing the rich and sparing the middle class. This is what Clinton himself had to say about taxes: "I will not raise taxes on the middle class to pay for [my] programs...Now furthermore, I am not going to tell you to read my lips. On anything. But I can tell you this. I'm not going to raise taxes on middle-class Americans ... Read my plan." 
Translation: "I won't raise taxes, but that's not a promise, so don't take it seriously. In fact, don't ever take me seri­ously, because I probably don't ever mean what I say. But anyway, trust me." 
In other words, rest assured that he will raise taxes on the middle class. To top this, a Clinton adviser recently told the New York Times that Clinton was a man we can "always" expect "to level with people." 
A recent headline in the Times reported that "Clinton, after raising hopes, now tries to lower expectations." Well, that doesn't surprise me. I'm just waiting for the headline that reads: "Economy Collapses as Clinton Finally Discovers the Cake Principle." 
lrfan Khawaja is a graduate student in the philosophy de­partment. His column runs monthly on Friday. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Student injured during fans' rush onto the field 
which make me look possessed. But it could have been worse. If I hadn't been found, or had someone walked over me one 
more  time,  I  could  have  
suffocated and  died.  But I  
didn't.  

The point of this letter is to remind you that although you may think it's great to rush the field to greet your glorious foot­ball team, it poses a risk to all involved. If you didn't notice, the team quickly left the field, scared for their own lives from the mob which descended from the student section. 
I have learned my lesson the hard way, and those I have talked to in the past week have learned one also. I am lucky to be alive, but I beg everyone to consider the return before tak­ing the risk. Don't turn next year's season into one of tragedy. 
Jill C. Burdo Le Mans Hall Nov. 19, 1992 

Now we'll see the real Bill Clinton 
Dear Editor: 

The result of the 1992 presi­dential election was rather dis­turbing to me. Hoss Perot and George Bush presented an honest scene for what is going on in the U.S., and they both gave realistic solutions for the problem. 
With the defeat of both these candidates the American people said good-bye to reality and welcomed the fantasy land of Bill Clinton and AI Gore. On Nov. 5, 1992, The Observer printed an article entitled " A primer on what Clinton stands for " designed to summarize Clinton's major campaign stands. 
This article, with the intent of giving people an idea of what they are getting into with Bill Clinton, gave me quite a scare. I did a little research, and I found that Bill Clinton's plan, appealing as it is, is a long way from reality and should be a major concern for the American people. 
I'm going to come right out and say it. Clinton and Gore won by telling the people what they wanted to hear. From the beginning of his campaign, Clinton's major stands were for the environment, women's rights, health care, anti-crime, and education. 
He really went out on a limb here didn't he. I mean who is going to dispute these platforms? With his over dramatic, insincere speeches on these topics, Clinton was able to gain the support of women, minorities, the elderly, and the youth of America. 
With this brilliant campaign strategy, Clinton appealed to everyone and in a way covered all bases even though his plan has no truth or substance to it. 
The economy and the deficit are the number one and two is­sues in the U.S. today and are therefore the centerpiece of Clinton's campaign. 
The campaign consists of a stimulus program built around a $20-billion-a-year spending plan for highways and bridges designed to create jobs in the construction business. 
Longer term, Clinton pro­poses investment tax credits for new plants and equipment, and a capital gains tax cut for new business. In order to tackle the deficit, Clinton's plan calls for a tax increase for families that make over $200,000 in annual income, and tax relief for mid­dle and lower class families. 
This plan also coordinates a $100,000 billion cut in defense spending by 1997. In conclu­sion, according to the Clinton plan the economy will be stimu­lated, the deficit will be de­creased, there will be more protection against crime, the women's rights movement will be greatly supported, the envi­ronment will be protected, ho­mosexuals will gain more rights and AIDS research will be greatly increased. 
At a quick glance it is easy to fall in love with this plan since the only suffering done is by those who make over $200,000 a year. After doing some re­search with The Washington Post as my source I found that everything is not what it seems. 
Under the microscope, even under a magnifying glass, anyone can see that Clinton's numbers do not add up, and he cannot fulfill his promises. His plan is fantasy. 
The most obvious problem with his plan is his approach toward the deficit. Increasing taxes on the minority class of people who make over $200,000 a year is not going to raise a whole hell of a lot of money. 
In fact, it will not even make up for the loss of tax income made from a tax break for the middle and lower class families also promised by this plan. Clinton is also willing to spend $8.25 billion on the atom smashing super-conducting super collider projects, and he also wants to fund spending to build another Seawolf subma­rine. 
Other major expenses in his plan include better health insurance, limit on carbon dioxide emissions, 40-mpg auto fuel efficiency standards, the elimination of the production and use of ozone depleting chemicals, the funding of tremendous amounts of money to programs such as Head Start to cover all eligible 3-year-olds as well as older pre-schoolers, funding for college aid, and in­"crease spending for AIDS re­search. 
Anyone that understands the concept of money should take a look at the whole picture and see the impossibility of Clinton's plan. 
Next is the issue about jobs. A $20-billion-a-year spending plan for highways and bridges certainly will produce more jobs, but the question is what kind of jobs? Construction? Is the construction business the future of the U.S.? 
It must also be noted that the $100 billion cut in defense, the scrapping of the massive space­based defense system known as Brilliant Pebbles, the shrinking of the Navy from 12 to 10 carri­ers, and the cut to 75,000 from 100,000 American troops in Europe will cause major job losses. What are these people going to do, become construc­tion workers? 
It is very hard to believe, but Bill Clinton did win the election. Promises are most definitely going to be broken so the peo­ple of the U.S. must be ready. 
The truth of Bill Clinton will soon come out and four years from now people will wonder how they could have believed his unrealistic plan. I want the solution to be that simple so I can see how people could be­lieve, but to solve problems sacrifices have to be made. Lets hope that too much damage is not done and we can save this country four years from now. 
Brian Solazzo Grace Hall Nov. 17, 1992 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing as a plea to the student bodies of both schools to reflect on their behavior at the Notre Dame/Penn State game this past Saturday and think long and hard about what happened afterwards before next season begins. 
I am one of those injured in Saturday's game. While on the field, I lost my balance and fell. Unable to get up, people soon tripped over me, fell on top of me, and walked over me, not hearing my screams for help. Lying face down in the mud all I remember is seeing black and not being able to breathe or move. 
Fortunately, an usher found me and pulled me out. I was then treated at the stadium as well as the hospital for my in­juries. I was lucky. 
I only suffered bruised ribs which allow me to lift nothing, bruised knee ligaments which make walking impossible, and two black eyes with red (from broken blood vessels) eyeballs 
Viewpoint
Friday, November 20, 1992 page 11 
ND for the Homeless @) 
Center copes with growing numbers 
Dear Editor: 
Throughout the past two decades, the typical images of the homeless have been the desolate wino or the downtrod­den bag lady. Only recently have we began to confront the growing phenomenon of fami­lies and children among the homeless population. 
According to a 1990 Chil­dren's Defense Fund study, families with children represent more than one-third of the homeless, while one out of ev­ery four homeless persons in urban areas is a child. Home­less shelters throughout the country have had to grope with the problem of how to accom­modate families in need of shel­ter and related services. 
The rate of homeless children in Michiana is growing. In 1991. the Center for the Homeless in South Bend housed and cared for 195 children. Children represented 15 percent of the population at the Center, but more ala,rming is that the number of families with chil­dren in search of shelter is growing at a rapid rate in our Michiana community. 
As the number of families headed by single mothers in­creases in our country, more families and children have fallen into the ranks of the trumeless: 'In 'householdswitli' children, 44.7 percent of the families headed by females were in poverty in 1988, com­pared with 7.2 percent of mar­ried-couple families (Bureau of the Census, 1989). Increasingly, mothers alone are unable to adequately care and provide for their children. 
A long wait for subsidized housing. The Institute of Medicine estimated in 1988 that more than 100,000 children were homeless in the United States on any given night, while as many as 300,000 adolescents were homeless and without adult supervision. 
It is no coincidence that the number of homeless children has increased as federal sup­port for subsidized housing di­minished from $32.2 billion in 1981 to $7.5 billion in 1988. Currently, a homeless mother at the Center can place her name on the priority waiting list for subsidized housing. However, the wait in St. Joseph County is a despairing one to two years, reflective of the national trend. 
Homelessness is not healthy for children. Homelessness for a child typically means poor health, inadequate nutrition, social isolation and undue emo­tional stress. Growing up on the streets or in a shelter is clearly detrimental to a child's development. In many cities, homeless children do not go to school. The dropout rate in the 
U.S. for homeless children is more than 70 percent, which demonstrates that the cycle of poverty has little chance of be­ing broken with this next gen­eration. 
Sexual abuse is prevalent among women on the streets, and children as well. We often witness the tragedy of children giving birth to children. In November of 1991, a twelve year old girl gave birth to a child while residing at the Cen­ter for the Homeless. 
The Center for the Homeless is unique in dealing with the problem of homeless children and families when compared to other shelters nationally. The Center is equipped with 135 beds divided into 3 residential areas -one each for single men, for single women and 13 apartments for families. To provide a secure environment, the living areas for single women and mothers and chil­dren are off limits to male resi­dents unless under the super­vision of staff or volunteers. 
In addition to providing shel­ter and three meals a day, the Center offers on-site services such as mental health counsel­ing, medical and dental ser­vices, job placement, intensive out-patient treatment for alco­hol and other drugs, parenting programs, pre-school classes, 
G.E.D. and literacy classes, re­ligious services, legal aid, and case management services. 
All school-age children at the Center attend Marshall Ele­mentary School and Riley High School. The Center has one case worker who works specifically with mothers and children, and coordinates on a daily basis with a counselor at the elementary school. 
To lessen the stigma which homeless students may confront when dealing with classmates, children at the Center are first to be picked up by the school bus in the morning and last to be dropped off in the afternoon. 
Each weekday from 3 p.m. to 
4:15 p .m. the Center holds a mandatory study hall for all school-age children. Volunteer tutors come at that time to work with each child on an individual basis. A new children's activi­ties room, funded by the Junior League of St. Joseph County, is open for play from 6-7:30p.m. each evening. 
At the Center for the Home­less, we are trying to offer a cumprehensive approach to deal with the growing and very complex problems associated with homeless children and families. If we are to break this cycle of poverty which plagues so many children in our nation and local community, we must provide the necessary services and, even more, extend the love and hospitality which is so integral to providing a brighter future. 
Lou Nanni is the Executive Director for the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
Social teachings offered by the Church 
Editor's note: The following is a statement of the administra­tive board of the United States Catholic Conference from March 24, 1988: 
Our Social Teaching 
We bring ~o this discussion more than our experience in sheltering the homeless or providing housing. We bring our faith aQd our traditional teaching about housing and the human person. 
This is not a new concern for us. For decades, the Catholic Church in the United States has been an advocate for more ef­fective national housing policy. In 1975 we issued a major statement on housing. 
Our recent pastoral letter on economic justice raised a num­ber of values and principles with clear implications for housing. 
Other Catholic groups have addressed this issue with ur­gency and wisdum. 
Recently,. the Pontifical Commission Justitia et Pax re­leased a major document on housing· and homelessness, What Have You Done to Your Homeless Brother?, examining the worldwide dimensions of this problem, sharing the uni­versal teaching of the Church, and calling for public action to provide decent, adequate housing, especially for the poor and vulnerable. 
The Church has traditionally viewed housing, not as a com­modity, but as a basic human right. This conviction is grounded in our view of the human person and the respon­sibility of society to protect the life and dignity of every person by providing the conditions where human life and human dignity are not undermined, but enhanced. As Pope John Paul 11 said in introducing the recent Vatican document, "A house is much more than a roof over one's head." It is "a place where a person creates and lives out his or her life." The right to housing is a consistent theme in our teaching and is found in the Church's Charter of The Rights of the Family 3 We believe society has the re­sponsibility to protect these rights, and the denial of hous­ing to so many constitutes a terrible injustice. 
We also bring to this discus­sion other important values drawn from our social teaching: principles of stewardship, participation, and a preferential option for the poor and vulnerable. Stewardship calls us to use the gifts of God's creation for the benefit of all and raises basic questions of equity, fairness, and justice. Participation suggests that we measure our progress by whether people are able to shape their own destiny and meet their own basic needs by a broader parti~jpation in economic, civic, and social life. The preferential option for the poor restates the biblical lesson that we shall be judged by our response to "the least among us," that the quality of justice is best measured by how the poor and most vulnerable are faring. The Church needs to share this teaching more broadly and educate about the reality of homelessness and poor housing in our midst. 

Photo courtesy of Jim Hubbard and ND Student Government 
The homeless are often forced to cart around all of their belongings. 
Center for the Homeless is place of loving, hope 
Editor's Note: The following was a letter written to Lou Nanni from a resident of the South Bend Center for the Homeless: 
My name is Margie Dietrich, and I am a single, white female, age 37. For the first time in my life I find myself homeless. I came from Hammond, Indiana to start my life over. There was no work there. I saved my money and drove here with enough to make a new start. 
Quite a few extenuating cir­cumstances occured, and I found myself here; at the Cen­ter for the Homeless. They in­cluded robbery and sexual as­sault. Knowing no one in town, I was scared, especially at the thought of going to a Homeless Shelter. 
Of course, I had visions of what this place would be like, and I must say, it's totally oppo­site of what I had expected. The staff, guests and volunteers here are fantastic. They make you feel good about yourself even though-you may have nothing but yourself. 
The living arrangements, showers, kitchen, etc. are more organized and kept up better than most well-to-do houses and apartments I've seen. For instance, last night was "Mexican Night" and for the children there was a pinata filled with candy. 
It was just what everyone needed-not only the kids, but we adults, too. The atmosphere here is so homey, it's unbeliev­able. Most people wouldn't un­derstand. 
They think a Homeless ·Shel­ter is a dirty place for bums and low-lifes, but most people here are just down and out for a short while and are trying to get back on their feet. 
I think this place deserves more credit and recognition than I, or any one of the guests could give. There is more love and caring here, between the g\Iests. than I have ever seen in my life. 
Margie Dietrich Center for the Homeless Nov. 18, 1992 
Observer/Regan 


NO For The Homeless week 1992 For $3-the price of a rose-you can make a direct donation to the South Bend Center For The Homeless. You can purchase the ROSE CARD from your FCC Representative or from:  
i::::::::liRISH•••••DBDENS•••FLDWER·--·-smRE••••••••­ 
Where, with the purchase ofthe Rose Card, you can also get half off on the purchase of a rose  





NOVEMBER 20-22 

weekend calendar 

y 
MUSIC 

The Starletts, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. Dave Snyder Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 
9:30p.m: Brian, Colin and Vince, Club 23, 10:30 p.m. Mlchiana Folk Music Concert, Century Center, 
7:30p.m. 
EVENTS 

The Richest Dead Man Alive!, Theatre Grottesco, Washington Hall, 8:10 p.m. David Copperfield, Morris Civic Auditorium, 5:30 & 8:30p.m., 235-9190 Talking With, Oalloway's Coffeehouse, Saint Mary's, 8p.m. 
sa 
ay 
MUSIC 

Dave Snyder Blues Band, Mishawaka Midway Tavern, 8:30p.m. Barrelhouse Chuck and Hlrmonica Todd and Blue Lights Blues Band, 9:30p.m. Floyd the Barber, Club Shenanigans, 10 p.m. 
EVENTS 

The Richest Dead Man Alive!, Theatre Grottesco, Washington Hall, 8:10p.m. South Bend Symphony Orchestra, Morris Civic Auditorium, 8 p.rn., 23S,.9190. 
,, , Basic Instinct, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite, 7 & 9:45~~;~' 

• 
I 

Students take an 
active role in 'Rudy' 
By KENYA JOHNSON Assistant Accent Editor 

T 
he fans are on their feet, the cheerleaders are screaming, and a certain football player is excited beyond belief. It is a Notre Dame moment, but this time it's different. This time it's for Tri-Star Productions' cameras, not NBC's. 
"Rudy", the true story of a young, ambitious Notre Dame football player, is the first feature film to be shot at Notre Dame since 1940. Although there seems to be much focus on the football aspect of Notre Dame, the film is essentially about achieving dreams, no matter how farfetched they may seem. 
Featured actors Sean Astin, Charles S. Dutton, and Lili Taylor are definitely in the limelight of the film, but a certain group of dedicated people cannot be forgotten: the extras. 
"Rudy" is using approximately 2,500 extras, 75 percent of which are Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, ac­cording to movie crew member Owen Rice. 
Rice was originally in charge of casting all of the extras 
'I'm glad I chose to do it. It's interesting to see 
what r~ally goes into the making of a movie. I 
appreci(rte the crew members· jobs a lot more 
now.' · 


-Erik Baker 
for the movie and currently overlooks the organization of 
the participating extras. 

"It was no problem getting people interested," said 
Rice. "We ran ads in The Observer and had an excellent 
turn-out." Rice also organized a registration period at 
Stephan Center for members of the South 
Bend/Mishawaka to sign up as extras. 
There was no selective process after people registered. 
"We needed all the people we could get and we needed 
a diverse group," he said. "There was no reason to turn 
anyone away." 

Junior Erik Baker is one of many Notre Dame students 
who chose to particpate. 

"It was kind of a spur of the moment decision," said 
Baker. "But I'm glad I chose to do it. It's interesting to see 
what really goes into the making of a movie. I appreciate 
the crew members jobs a lot more now." 
Generally, extras are ordinary people filling 
background areas to make a movie more realistic. The 
2,500 extras in "Rudy" play students, fans, and "typical 
Notre Dame" people. Some have earned the privilege of 
receiving speaking parts'or being stand-ins. 
Six extras, one being a Notre Dame student, actually 
have lines. Sophomore Bill White is the stand-in actor for 
Astin. 

"'Rudy' has been a great break from the monotony of 
Notre Dame," said White. "It's a new experience. 
Something kind of different." 

White, being the around same height, weight, and com­plexion of Astin, stands in the scenes in which Astin will eventually work. 
"They figure out the right lighting and camera positioning for Astin by using me," White explained. The time commitment for extras, especially for a student, is more than one might imagine. 
"A typical day lasts around 12 hours," said Rice. "The day starts around 6 a.m. There's the check-in period, then to wardrobe, hair and props, then basically a lot of waiting." 
White admitted that he ends up spending much of his time just standing around. 
"I always have to be there in case they need me, but the time lapses give me a chance to study," he said. With the time commitments being so stringent, it helps students to film on Saturdays and Sundays. 
"We do film during the week," Rice explained. "We explained to the extras when they first signed up for the job that they need to be pretty available. I'm sure using the weekends helps them manage the time better," he added. 
The average extra receives $4.25 per hour plus time and a half if they work over 8 hours, according to Rice. Stand-ins earn $6 per hour. 
"A short day, around 12 hours, will earn an extra $59.50," he said. "Considering they get a hot lunch, that's not too bad." 

Sean Astin stars in the Tri-Star production, "Rudy" 
Beatty brin 

By JAHNELLE HARRIGAN 
Accent Editor 
H 
e'd never been to Notre Darr week ago. None of his childr• the University. But actor Ned discovering exactly what it fee be a Notre Dame parent. 
Beatty, who recently starred as Me father in the film "Prelude to a Kiss," Danilo Ruettiger in the Tri-Star Pictu "Rudy." 
Danilo, Rudy's father, is a first-ge immigrant from Poland. ''I'm playing who's a generation ahead of me ...it's alw; play someone from another time," Beatty 
Danilo is "a steel mill worker with respectable position-a foreman's-type able to get his sons into the mill with pr jobs," Beatty said. 
But there's a tough relationship betwe and Rudy. 
Danilo sees his son reaching for higl than working in a mill-he realizes tha moving forward, and doesn't want to see He worries that Rudy will have some dn won't come true. 
'"Rudy' tells you what you can or ca for-what you can or can't dream for. achieving something that seems e: impossible. It really stretches the limit people can do," Beatty said. 
It's easy to identify with many par character, according to Beatty. 
Having had many difficult jobs whe1 younger, including working as a butc chemical plant and in construction, hell better understand a person like Danilo, ht 
"I relate to people who work for a livin~ of just sitting behind a desk. I understa kind of values people like that have," he s1 
The Ruettiger family also·reminds Beat youth. He describes the Ruettigers' h 
1992-199.3 



15 BROOKS BOYER 6-1 Junior Guard 
6-2 
6-10 
6-4 
6-9 



A Supplement to The ObseNer 
Never Give Up Hope 
Monty Williams returns to lead Irish 
By RICH KURZ 
Associate Sports Editor 

Three years ago, Monty Williams was in the prime of ~is life. 
As a freshni.an, he was an important contributor on a team on a team that ended up in the NCAA Tournament, loaded with talented athletes like Denver Nuggets' rookie LaPhonso Ellis and Continental Basketball Association (CBA) players like Daimon Sweet and Elmer Bennett. 
But in the summer after an impressive rookie campaign, in which 
"I knew I would play again, but I always thought I'd have to try the CBA or overseas. The opportunity came much sooner than I'd expected." 
-Monty Williams 
he started 18 games and averaged 7.7 points per game, Williams' basketball career was dealt a blow during a rou­tine medical exam. 
The doctors found an extra heart sound, and follow-up examinations found that the muscle wall in his heart was abnormally thick, a condition known as hypertrophic car­diomyopathy (HCM). At the time it was thought that HCM was a cause of sudden death, and that exercise would raise those chances. 
In the wake of the on-court death of Loyola Marymount star Hank Gathers, Williams' doctors decided that he would no longer be able to compete for the Notre Dame basketball team. · 
Despite the tough times over the past two years, Williams never gave up hope that he would someday play again, whether it was in a blue and gold uniform or not. 
"I knew I would play again, but I always thought I'd have to try the CBA or overseas. The opportunity came much sooner than I'd expected," said Williams. 
On September 8 of this year, the 
University of Notre Dame went back on its earlier decision and announced that Williams would be able to play this season. 
Further research by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and an 

The Observer/Jake Peters 
Monty Williams lays a ball in during Wednesday's practice. He and the Irish open the exhibition season on Monday against USA Verich at 7:30p.m. 
"It's hard to lay out for two years and
intensive physical had convinced the staff of NIH that Williams fell into the "extremely small risk category," and thus felt that participation in inter-collegiate sports was possible for him. 
"(Coach MacLeod) was excited and I was excited," Williams said. "He has a lot of expectations for me." 
MacLeod's expectations are optimistic, but are tempered with a touch of reality. 
to keep on working. 
"I can't think of a day I wasn't on the court," he said. "(The team) was playing over at the ACC, but I was playing at the Rock." 
Monty Williams isn't the same player he was three years ago, though. Nature has had its say. Since the time when he was forced to give up basketball, Williams has grown two inches, to 6-9, and he thinks it will help make him all that much more dangerous in MacLeod's scheme. 
"Our offense uses my versatility, and it puts the other team at a disadvantage," Williams said. 
When Williams played during his freshman season, he was often used in the backcourt, sometimes even at point guard, becaur;;e of his ball­handling skills. Now taller, his play around the basket will get an added boost. 
With only one returning starter in Billy Taylor, the Irish will be looking for a leader on the court, and though Williams is still a junior in terms of eligibility, he and Matt Adamson are 
~ 
the only seniors on Notre Dame's 
I 
squad. Though he feels the need to be a leader, he doesn't feel the need to be I vocal on the court. 
"I lead by example," said Williams. "My leadership role is making a key lay-up or making an assist. 
"I look at myself as the go-to guy." 
Williams will also get a chance to lead as one of the team's co-captains. Before he was returned to competitive play, the Irish team voted Brooks Boyer, Carl Cozen and Billy Taylor as the team's tri-captains. According to MacLeod, the team decided it would only be fair to vote on captains when all members of the team were present and the team picked Williams and Boyer as the new captains in a second vote. 
"When we voted the first time, he wasn't in there. The captain is responsible for showing leadership, direction and example both on the court and off," said MacLeod. "Both (Williams and Boyer) have been through the war so they understand." 
Most basketball writers are predicating the Irish will have a down year this season, but Williams doesn't take the naysayers all that seriously. He has plenty of experience over­coming his critics, and hopes that in returning to action, he'll be able to prove both his own critics and those of team wrong. 
"I always take what the critics say with a grain of salt. At the beginning of my senior high school year I wasn't 
ranked that highly, but I finished in the
not expect some residue," said MacLeod. 
top 25. At the beginning of my freshman 
"His intentions are good. His work ethic 
year, I wasn't ranked with the best
is good. He's behind in certain areas, but 
freshmen, but I made the all-freshmen
he'll catch up. He has good athleticism 
team at the end of the year." 
and a desire to improve." 
There are those who don't believe
Now that the initial euphoria has worn 
Williams can come back and play, but if
off. it is time to get down to work. Two 
he has the same success proving those 
years off from competitive basketball 
critics wrong, he and the Irish should be
take their toll, but during his time away 
in for a good year. 
from the team, Williams was determined 


page 2 1992-1993 Irish Basketball Friday, November 20, 1992 
This year is like deja vu for Justice 
By MIKE SCRUDATO a learning experience, and he is that I lost the aggressiveness I kle sprain last week, Justice Sports Editor now reaping the benefits of had in high school," he added. believed he was playing the best 
Bennett's tutoring, a process This season Justice believes basketball of his life. Fifty minutes. which continued over the that he has found it. The Irish are going to need It's a little more than one summer. "I want the (starting point him to do so this season and 
game. It's one class period. It's "Last year, I basically spent all guard) spot," he said. "I want to more this season. the total amount of time Lamarr my time observing him, and prove to everyone that I belong The loss of four starters to Justice spent on the floor last seeing how he handled himself," there." graduation stripped Notre Dame season. Justice explained. "This The strides that the sopho­of its senior leadership, and 
This season Justice could summer was a challenge, and I more point guard has made there is no proven leader on the eclipse this total before final ex­held my own. It was the first over the off-season are similar roster. As the team's point ams. He is the projected heir to time I felt I played well against to those he made between his guard, Justiee must help fill that Elmer Bennett at point guard. It him." sophomore and junior years at void. is a challenge that the Based on what Justice has Batavia High School. "We are looking for leader­sophomore is more than ready shown in preseason workouts "It was almost the same situa­ship, and we need people to to meet because he has been in he has graduated from Ben­tion," Justice recalled. "I step up, take eontrol and be a the same situation before. nett's school with honors, as he worked hard in the summer leader," he said. "I am going to 
"Last season there was no has displayed the aggression camps, and I improved drasti­have to be (one of those people) room for error when I was floor. and confidence that seemed to cally. I was a totally different because as a point guard that To stay in the game I had to be missing in his bits of playing player. comes naturally with the posi­play perfectly," Justice said. time last season. "I felt like I had that type of tion. "The same thing happened to "Last year I knew I wasn't summer this year." "Overall, though, I think the me during my sophomore year going to knock Elmer out of his Justice's improvement has not team will look to the upper­in high school, and it shattered spot. Looking back it probably gone unnoticed. elassmen." my confidence." wasn't the right attitude to "Lamarr is becoming more In high school, Justice was not 
Last season, however, he did have," the Batavia, Ill. native sure of himself at the point," the team's sole leader either. not allow that to happen. He said. Irish eoach John MaeLeod said. The original star of the squad used the time behind Bennett as "My high school coach told me Before suffering a slight an-was current Arizona swingman 
Corey Williams. But, Williams' talent helped get Justice to Notre Dame. 
"lie was the one that brought in all the coaches, like Digger 
·~ ~-:::::and Coach K," Justice said. ··"""'*:':.. M ..~ 
"They came to see him, but then 
The Observer/Jake Peters

they also became interested in 
Lamarr Justice passes the ball
me." , 
past Duke's Thomas Hill.

It wasn't until he drew these coaches attention that Justice plained. became aware of his potential. And he did just that, averag­
"I didn't come from a big high ing 15.0 points and 4.5 assists school, and I thought I was a per game, while he and nice player for my area," he Williams led the team to 17 
recalled. "But, it wasn't until straight victories before falling the end of junior year that I in the quarterfinals of the Illi­realized I could play in college." nois Class AA tournament. 
The following sehoul year, Justice decided to bypass the This season he again wants to fall signing period, during which show people that he is a better schools such as Northern player. 
Illinois, Northwestern and "I know I'm going to be on the Colorado expressed interest in floor every game, and I know 
him. ' that I am going to have to play "I wanted to play my senior better. It's something I have to year and show people I was a do no matter how much 
Justice feels that he has he is ready to take over the starting point guard position this season. pressure is on me," Justice said. 
better player," Justice ex-
Macleod, McGraw harvest high school talent 
By JONATHAN JENSEN gram for these reasons: they're "He's very aggressive on the 
Sports Writer fluid, they do a combination of defensive end, very instinctive, things," noted MacLeod, "They and he has all the tools to be a both are shot blockers, re­great player," said Owens, "He's 
"His concern was life after bounders, they both run the going to be asked to score more basketball. The doors will open floor, and they have the ability this year, and I think he can up for you after Notre to score. They should bring meet that challenge. His better Dame-that was the key. Notre quite a bit to our ballclub." days are ahead of him, he's 6­Dame speaks for itself. You Gotsch averaged 21.0 points 10 and still growing." don't beat a Notre Dame." per game for Friendswood High MacLeod commented that 
This is how Derrick Owens, Sehool during his junior season, both Hughes and Gotsch are 
current coach of Irish recruit to go along with 13.0 rebounds coming to Notre Dame for the Marcus Hughes, described the and an astounding 8.4 blocked right reasons. reasons why Hughes chose shots. He also shot an "They were impressed with Notre Dame over other tradi­outstanding 77.4 percent from the academic side of it, both are tional basketball powers. the free-throw line and 61.8 academically oriented and their 
Hughes is just one of this percent from the field. parents and they could see that year's signees that John Gotsch was named first team this is a great academic institu­MacLeod and Muffet McGraw all-district and all-region and tion," said MacLeod. "They also will use to build a promising second team all-state by the responded to the challenge of future for the Notre Dame bas­Texas Association of Basketball the building program and the ketball programs. Coaches. As a sophomore, difficult schedule. Those are After seasons that saw Gotsch averaged 14 points and factors that are really important MacLeod lead the Irish to the 9.8 boards. when you make a decision and NIT finals in his first year and Hughes, a senior at St. Martin they're both bright youngsters." McGraw take the women's DePorres High School, averaged As far as the women's re­program into its first NCAA 8.0 points, 10.0 rebounds and cruits, high school seniors Tournament appearance, both five blocks during his junior Jeannine Augustin, Beth Mor­coaches will look to improve on season for the perennial gan, Rosanne Bohman, and their success with the signing of Michigan powerhouse that also Katryna Gaither are all talented this class of talented athletes. graduated former Irish star playmakecs who will make an McGraw signed four out­running back Rodney Culver. immediate impact on the Irish 
standing players this year, in­Hughes was a key element in women's basketball program. cluding three honorable men­last year's team that posted a Augustin, a 5-5 guard from tion Street and Smith's All­25-2 record and won the Adams High School in Americans. Michigan Class C state champi­Rochester, Mich., is considered 
And after signing two guards onship. In his sophomore year, to be a top candidate for Michi­in his first recruiting class at he averaged four points and five gan's Miss Basketball award. Notre Dame, the second-year rebounds for the state Augustin scored 36 points in a coach went big this year, sign­semifinalists. game last season, including ing 7-0, 215-pound Matt Gotsch Though Hughes was not a big nine three-pointers, and is cur­from Friendswood, Texas, and scorer for coach Derrick Owens rently averaging 15 points a Hughes, a 6-10, 210-pound last year, Owens feels he is ca­game. Augustin also carries a forward from Detroit. pable of putting up big num­3.9 grade point average and 
"They'll both fit into our pro-bers. see RECRUITS/page 3 

-

Friday, November 20, 1992 1992-1993 Irish Basketball page 3 
Junior class deserves more than respect from Irish fans 
COMMENTARY 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Associate Sports Editor 
They're not quite a fearsome foursome. 
The question whether Brooks Boyer, Carl Cozen, Joe and Jon Ross should be playing college basketball in North America, much less at Notre Dame, lingers on. The juniors have spent much of their time in gold and blue riding the ACC pine, and when they have played, their performances have been spotty. 
But the Irish junior class, de­spite its perceived shortcomings on the court, deserves the respect of Irish basketball fans. 
Since their arrival two years ago, Boyer, Cozen, and the Ross twins have felt the heat of unfounded hatred. They have felt the sting of hecklers and of other silent. cowardly individ­uals. They have had to live with the knowledge that many of their peers do not respect them, simply because they are not All­American basketball players. 
Of course, the juniors have not had a real opportunity to show their abilities on the court in either of their first two sea­sons. The few appearances they have made have shown some that Notre Dame's basketball future is in unsure, small, incapable hands. But others see a group of players who, even if they can't beat up the big boys from Duke and Indiana, will at least keep up with them. 
The Irish junior class boasts a group of sensible role players. Brooks Boyer, though small, is a sensible ballhandler who can bury the outside shot. Joe and Jon Ross are not the bulkiest big men in college basketball, but their stature .will keep many opponents out of the lane. And though Carl Cozen's haircut may not be pretty, the arc on his three-point shot certainly is. 
No star has emerged from John MacLeod's group of ju­niors, but if versatile sopho­mores Billy Taylor and Malik Russell can bolster the perfor­mances of their teammates, the Irish may be able to work won­ders in 1992-1993. 
Three of the four senior starters from last year's NIT runner-up squad, which had a late-season chance to earn a berth in the NCAA tournament, have gone on to professional basketball. Despite the return of senior Monty Williams to the Irish lineup, few observers are giving the Irish any chance to qualify for the 1993 postseason. 
But if MacLeod can massage the juniors' undoubtedly de­flated egos and mold them into a cohesive group of players, he could have a winner on his hands this season. 
Notre Dame fans have been quick· to label the Irish junior class as a pack of losers. But the disappointments of their first two seasons have been due to the shortcomings of other players. Boyer, Cozen, Ross and Ross are not responsible for the last-minute losses against Virginia and Syracuse during their freshman year, nor for the fall to Detroit-Mercy and Dayton last season. 
They deserve a chance to prove themselves this season, when much of Notre Dame's basketball success depends on their talent. They are a tough group, which has endured two seasons of ridicule and mock­ery. All four have survived that criticism, which would have driven many away from Notre Dame, to become quiet leaders on their team. 
For that strength, they have earned respect. 

also led Bloomington South "Rosanne is a very strong, shot-blocking, intimidating type more important than the talent, High School in steals with 55. aggressive, physical player of big guy in the block." although they're all very tal­
Recruits 
An honorable mention All­around the basket," said Mc­Though McGraw's recruiting ented, the attitude is really American. Morgan is in the Graw, "She's got great work class this season is not as strong what's going to help us win."
continued from page 2 
running for Miss Basketball in ethic, she's going to help us in­as 1990's, when the Irish netted This class comes at the heels
earned academic all-state 
the state of Indiana. side." the top player in the nation in of Marciniak's transfer to Ten­
honors in addition to being 
"Beth Morgan is an outstand­Katryna Gaither, a 6-3 center, Michelle Marciniak and two nessee, after the nationalnamed to the first team all-state ing shooter, just a great scorer," averaged 32 points per game Parade All-Americans in Letitia player-of-the-year had a hardteam. 
commented McGraw, "She's an for Mt. Vernon High School in Bowen and Audrey Gomez, she time fitting into the program.
"She's a very quick shooting impact offensive player." New York, and reached both the feels that this year's class fits in She was accused of being too
guard," said McGraw, "She'll 
Bohman, a 6-2 forward, av­1,000-point and rebound mark perfectly. much of an individual player,help us defensively and she's eraged 19.3 points and 9.0 during her junior season. "We felt that the key issue was and it caused problems with the
going to help our transition 
points per game at North De­Gaither is also ranked in the top to get kids that know what it team.
game." 
catur High School in Greens­10 percent of her class takes to be successful, that are "I think we had some teamA 5-11 guard from Blooming­burg, Ind., earning honorable academically. willing to work and pay the chemistry problems," said Mc­ton. Ind., Morgan was a second mention All-American honors. "Katryna is a great athlete price, " noted McGraw, "That Graw, "But we don't have thoseteam all-state selection last sea­North Decatur's all-time leading who runs the floor extremely are going to be unselfish play­problems this year, so we're son, averaging 28.4 points and scorer and rebounder, Bohman well," noted McGraw, "She's ers, that are going to be team very determined to keep good7.6 rebounds per game. Morgan was also an all-conference and going to help us in the press, players. attitudes and bring in good atti­
set a school record with 4 7 
an all-area pick. and defensively in terms of a "We feel that the attitude is tudes."
points in a single game, and 


NOTRE DAME IRISH MEN'S BASKETBALL 1992-93 SCHEDULE 
Date  Opponent  Time  
November  
23  USA VERICH(EXH.)  7:30p.m.  
30  AUSTRAILIAN NATIONAL TEAM(EXH.)  7:30p.m.  
December  
4  at Loyola(Chicago)  8:00p.m.  
6  EVANSVILLE  2:00p.m.  
8  INDIANA  7:30p.m.  
t1  at Providence  8:00p.m.  
20  BOSTON COLLEGE  2:00p.m.  
28-29  at Sugar Bowl Tournament  TBA  
January  
2  usc  4:30p.m.  
4  at Xavier  8:05p.m.  
6  at Detroit Mercy  7:35p.m.  
9  DAYTON  2:00p.m.  
12  at Stanford  !0:30p.m.  
16  at Michigan  2:00p.m.  
18  at Butler  7:30p.m.  
23  LASALLE  7:30p.m.  
27  at Missouri  8:00p.m.  
31  at UCLA  4:00p.m.  
February  2  ST. BONAVENTURE  7:30p.m.  
6  DUKE  1:00p.m.  
9  at Dayton  7:30p.m.  
13  KENTUCKY  2:00p.m.  
17  MARQUETTE  7:00p.m.  
21  at DePaul  1:30p.m.  
23  at North Carolina  7:30p.m.  
25  DUQUESNE  7:30p.m.  
March  
3  VALPARAISO  7:30p.m.  
7  at Louisville  t:30p.m.  
HOME GAMES IN CAPS  

.::::\.. 
~H::l' 
I= 


NOTRE DAME IRISH WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 1992-93 SCHEDULE 
Date Opponent Time 
November 

20 CZECHOSLOVAKIA 
7p.m. 

December at Marquette 7:00p.m. 4 PURDUE 7:30p.m. 9 at Illinois-Chicago 7:30p.m. 12 MICHIGAN 2:00p.m. 19 at Loyola (Md.) 3:00p.m. 21 GEORGIA 3:00p.m. 30 GEORGETOWN 2:00p.m. 
January 2 at LaSalle' 
1:00 p.m. 4 at Tennessee 
7:00p.m. 7 at Dayton· 
7:00p.m. 9 at Xavier' 
7:00p.m. 

7:30p.m. 16 LOYOLA (11\.)• 
14 DETROIT' 
7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m.

t9 at Penn State 
7:30p.m.

25 at DePaul' 
5:00p.m. 1:00p.m. 

28 at Evansville' 30 at Butler• 
February 
7:30p.m.

4 LASALLE• 
7:30p.m.

6 DUQUESNE• 
7:30p.m.

11 XAVIER• 
7:30p.m.

13 DAYTON" 
7:00p.m.

18 at Loyola (Ill.)' 
5:00p.m.

20 at Detroit• March 
7:00p.m.

t at Duquesne· 
5:00p.m.

4 BUTLER 
2:00p.m.

6 EVANSVILLE 8-10 MCC Championships @ Notre Dame. Indiana 
ALL HOME GAMES ARE LISTED IN CAPS 'MCCGAME 

-
page 4 1992-1993 Irish Basketball Friday, November 20, 1992 
Coquese looking for fun 
By JASON KELLY "My knee is doing great, inspiration for Washington is Sports Writer but I am still doing some the classroom. After 
rehab to get the strength completing her 
back to where it should be," undergraduate studies in 
Coquese Washington just she said. three-and-a-half years, she is wants to have fun. Her main concern now is to now working toward her 
In her final season in a help get the team to where it Masters' degree in history. Notre Dame uniform, goals should be before Friday Eventually, she plans to get like a Midwestern Collegiate night's exhibition against a her doctorate in educational Conference championship traveling. team from administration and get a job and an NCAA tournament bid Czechoslovakia and the as a high school principal. are secondary to making season-opener at Marquette basketball fun again. on December 1. After shifting between 
"Our top priority is just to The leadership that point off guards last season, have fun," Washington said. Washington brings to the Washington will primarily "We want to win the confer­team will be a key to Notre play the off guard position ence and be competitive in Dame's success this season. this season. That seems like the NCAA tournament, but In her three seasons with the a strange change for a player we have to learn to enjoy Irish, she has seen some who ranks third on Notre ourselves out there." good times and some bad Dame's all-time assist list 
Despite an MCC times, including two 20-win with 434, but the Irish tournament title and an seasons that passed without offense is designed to make NCAA tournament an NCAA tournament bid, sure she has the ball as often appearance in 1992, the Irish and last year's disappointing as possible. didn't get much enjoyment 14-17 record. "I will still be able to from playing basketball, as That adversity has helped handle the ball a lot," they limped to a 14-17 finish. her grow as a player and Washington said. "I like to 
"It wasn't as much fun as it now she will help bring the have the ball in my hands should have been, and in that younger players to her level. because I think I am capable situation playing becomes a "Coach (Muffet) McGraw of creating opportunities for strain," Washington and I think alike, so I am just myself and my teammates." explained. "It's only a game, an extension of her on the She also wants to create and if we can't enjoy playing, court," Washington said. "In the enjoyment for her we won't be able to win." the past I've tried to lead teammates that will 
A knee injury took a lot of more by example, but now I ultimately turn into victories. the fun out of last season for am trying to speak up more "If we can have fun, we can Washington, but she feels she when I need to." be successful," Washington 

is playing at 90-95 percent. Another source of said. 
COACH McGRAW AND PROBABLE STARTERS 
10 KARA LEARY 21 COQUESE WASHINGTON 5-5 Junior Guard 5-6 Senior Guard 
I 

22 SHERRI ORLOSKY 31 LETITIA BOWEN 5-10 Junior Guard 6-0 Sophomore Forward 





The Observer/John Bingham Coquese Washington hopes to make playing basketball fun again this season. 
Irish women look to continue climb toward collegiate elite 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN because we don't have a star player this Sports Writer year," she said. "Everyone wants to be part of the success." 
After losing a number of key players Success should come if the play of the from last year's first ever NCAA frontcourt comes remotely close to the tournament participant you would expect production from last season. Most of that the 1992-93 season to be a rebuilding year responsibility will be placed on Bowen for the Notre Dame women's basketball who averaged 7.8 rebounds and 7.5 points team, but don't tell that to Irish coach year ago. The six-foot sophomore scored a Muffet McGraw and her youthful squad. career-high 18 points in the UCLA contest. They envision this season as one with loads "Letitia is always ready to go," said of potential. McGraw. "She picks up the level of play 
"One look at the roster and we look because she gives every ounce of effort." young," commented McGraw. "But with Aiding Bowen will be Jones and Knapp injuries over the last two years and who will be looked on to rebuild the inside shuffling in the lineups, we actually have a force which was synonymous with Notre lot of game experience. It's just a matter of Dame's success in recent years. Jones, pulling everything together and we're all senior Majenica Rupe and junior Andrea committed to reaching our potential as a Alexander will also see time in the team." frontcourt. 
Notre Dame was unable to reach its full "I can't emphasize how important potential a year ago due to a number of on rebounding is to our whole offensive and off-court problems. Guards Audrey scheme," added Notre Dame's coach. "If Gomez, Coquese Washington and forwards we control the boards, we maintain control Tootie Jones, Kristin Knapp, and Letitia of the game." Bowen all missed games last season for The backcourt should be the team's injuries or personal reasons, forcing strength Jed by Washington. The senior McGraw to test young players early and try captain appears to be feeling no effects players in unfamiliar roles. Adding to from last spring's reconstructive knee McGraw's worries was last year's second surgery and will assume a major scoring leading scorer, guard Michelle Marciniak, role at the shooting guard. who disrupted team unity with talk of a The Irish will boast a point-guard by transferring the week before the UCLA committee to start the season with junior matchup. She eventually left Notre Dame Kara Leary, Gomez and freshman Stacy and enrolled at Tennessee. Fields rotating at the head of the offense. 
The combination of problems dropped Splitting time with Washington will be Notre Dame's record from 23-9 in 1991 to Sherri Orlosky, the only player to see last season's 14-17 mark, McGraw's worst action in all 31 games last season. record since joining the Irish in 1987. But "Sherri is a pure shooter and she has a the season-long woes were forgotten when great release," stated McGraw. "Her 
a 59-54 win over Xavier achieved Notre outside shooting is going to be another 
Dame's first ever NCAA bid. The resulting important dimension of our offense." 92-71 loss to UCLA in the tourney's The experience and depth at the guard opening round could not cloud the success positions is the team's strength, one the Irish found amidst great adversity. McGraw appears ready to utilize. 
"Last season~ when we weren't playing "We have flexibility on our backcourt well, there were plenty of opportunities to because we know we can count on let the situation get worse, but we didn't let everyone to get their job done and not that happen," added McGraw. make mistakes," stated McGraw. "Not only 
For Notre Dame to find itself in the NCAA that, but we're versatile enough to move tourney this season, McGraw will have to people around without disturbing our replace three key figures from last season, offense." and a number of young players will have to Along with Fields, freshmen Jenny step up their play. Layden and Carey Poor should contribute 
The trio atop last season's final stat sheet in their first year of collegiate play. will no longer be at McGraw's disposal. Notre Dame's schedule will be lighter Leading scorer Margaret Nowlin and fellow than last season's, but difficult games with scoring threat Comalita Haysbert were lost Tennessee, Georgia, Penn State and to graduation, and Marciniak will be suit­Purdue will put the Irish to the test early. ing up for the Volunteers. "We need to have fun out their again," 
The loss of three standouts doesn't worry said Washington. "And if we are able to McGraw as she has a solution for filling the enjoy the game that that could turn into void. wins." 
"The whole focus of our team differs 
page 13 

l 
• I 
I 

The Observer/John Bingman the first feature film to be shot on the Notre Dame campus since "Knute Rockne, All-American", which was filmed in 1940. 
years of experience to 'Rudy' 
always filled with friends-Rudy's girlfriend and his friend, Pete, spend much time there throughout the film-and remembers that his own family was much the same when he was growing up. 
"The family is open-ended and is pretty good about letting people in," Beatty said. 
While filming last Sunday at Notre Dame Stadium, he identified with watching his "son," Rudy, achieve his dream of playing football for Notre Dame, according to Beatty. "I warmed the bench enough when I was younger, too," he said. 
Beatty is currently working on a new television series for NBC, "Homicide: A Year on the Streets," in which he plays a homicide detective. Because of his commitment to NBC, he worried that he would not be chosen for "Rudy." 
"Actors are kind of like athletes. We tend to belong to the company we work for. It's an understanding we all have," Beatty said. 
Because "it's almost impossible for an actor to know a specific day you'll be done with a job," Beatty also claims that it's very difficult to work on more than one project at a time. 
But one month ago he found out that he had been chosen to play the part of Danilo. Since then, he has continued to work for NBC in Baltimore, but "Rudy" has been in the back of his mind, he said. 
Arriving in South Bend last Friday, Beatty has been filming at Notre Dame for a week. And because of the NBC show, his schedule is hectic-he will be traveling constantly between Baltimore and the set of "Rudy." 
But filming for "Rudy" is hectic on its own, according to Beatty. 
"There is no 'average' day. You're always in a new place. And most actors like that. We're used to it." 
Filming for "Rudy" lasts approximately 12 hours each day, and while they may shoot a certain scene many times, it's always different, Beatty said. 
"The weirdness (of acting) is the fact that it is something you do over and over again, but it is constantly changing," he said. 
While many things change on the set, changes have also occurred in Beatty's career. 
At the age of 18, he went to work as a butcher instead of attending college. Eventually, he began singing, which then introduced him to acting. Although he's never had an acting lesson, "I decided I could probably do acting better," he said. "I act to make money. It always was the way I could earn money the best." 
Beatty worked in the theater for 15 years, starting in amateur theater in his hometown of Louisville, Ky. After spending much time at the state theater in Abingdon, Va., he then moved to Arena Stage in Washington, D.C. 
It was while he was in Washington, D.C. that he was chosen to play the character Bobby in the 1972 film "Deliverance." 
Beatty now lives in Los Angeles, and in addition to "Ptelude to a Kiss" and "Deliverance," he has starred in fllms such as "Superman 1," "Superman II," "Network" and "Hear My Song." 
After finishing filming "Rudy," he hopes to work for his new NBC show for approximately five years and then retire from acting, Beatty said. 
Film uses football to mirror the game of life 
By GERALDINE HAMILTON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
W 
hy, after fifty years, did the administration of Notre Dame finally acquiesce to having a major 
motion picture filmed on campus? 
The answer is simply that "Rudy," written by Angelo Pizzo and directed by David Anspaugh, met all of criteria, said Dick Conklin, associate vice president of University Relations. 
Film-makers said they could produce the movie without major interruption to the universities academic enterprise. 
'The content of the fllm resonates with the Notre Dame values," commented Conklin. And "Rudy" depicts the uni­versity in a favorable light. 
"Rudy" is not about football. "Football is used as a metaphor for something larger," stated Conklin. 
Just as "Hoosiers," also written and directed by Pizzo and Anspaugh, used basketball as a metaphor for people who get a second chance in life, "Rudy" uses football for people who refuse to limit their dreams and bow to reality, commented Conklin. 
Rudy is a young man with the dream of commg to Notre Dame and playing football for the university. All the people around him tell him that his dream cannot be achieved; he will not be accepted to Notre Dame and he is not good enough to play football there, Conklin relayed. 
Yet, through his determination both his dream of being a Notre Dame student and playing on the football team come true. . 
"Rudy's story is one of fulfilled aspiration," said Conklin. "Rudy comes to a more mature realization of his own identity." 
"The bottom-line is that this is a Notre Dame story based on a real story about a kid who fulfilled his dream. There is a real connection to this place," said Conklin. 
The university viewed many scripts about Rudy, but it was not until the final script by Pizzo that there was a positive feeling about the film, commented Conklin. 
"We were not interested in a football movie," said Conklin. "Once we had a script where football was a metaphor for human values we agreed." 
A major concern the university had about permitting the movie to be made on campus was the effect on academic life of the students. The producers of "Rudy" assured the university that there would be little inter­ruption of the students' academic life. 
Conklin acknowledged that there have been minor inconveniences, such as the outdoor filming of campus "beauty shots" restricting the movement of students. 
The administration allowed the makers of "Rudy" to ­use the Holy Cross Annex as their headquarters. The Annex was going to be torn down, but that was delayed to accommodate the movie makers. 
The Annex provides a large area where the "Rudy"art/prop department is situated. The university also provides cleaning and security of the Annex, for which the university is reimbursed by the movie pro­ducers. · 
The movie producers themselves have arranged for all their other needs. 
"These people make their own arrangements. They provided trailers for additional office space, phones, copy machines and anything else they needed," said Conklin. 
The crew is overjoyed about being able to film on campus. 
"They scout a location and then go to the university people in charge of that area and negotiate the filming," stated Conklin. 
The: university has great expectations for the movie. "The movie will depict Notre Dame in a positive way, as an attractive place," said Conklin. 

...---------~-------------------­
at AnF:n 

page 14 Friday, November 20, 1992 
r 
Is there room in the church for Mavericks? 
Father Robert Griffin 
/Jeffers Ia a Bone(y 9od 

A quarter of a century ago, when the present generation of baby-boomers was still in col­lege, Americans had their con­sciousness raised by the sum­mer love-in that took place at Woodstock. For priests young­in-heart everywhere, Wood­stock was the dawning of the Age of Aquarius. 
Faced with churches that were bare, ruined choirs after the iconoclasm of Vatican II, what else could pastors do for the flower children in their midst but let the sun shine in? Soon, in all the smart, up-to­date parishes, the Mass started to become a tribal celebration, like "Hair" without the nudity. 
Long before the Beatles had become more popular than Jesus, the music from "Jesus Christ Superstar" was played with regularity on the Vatican Radio, and a travelling company had put on their production of "Godspell" at the Sunday folk liturgy in Sacred Heart Church. 
It seemed for a while that from "Hair" to eternity, we would be entertained at Mass by the children with mop-tops, playing music of the counter­culture on their guitars, much of of it anti-war, and some of it love songs to drugs, discreetly coded, though the kids in the folk choirs didn't always un­derstand that. 
Once music became the opium of the baby-boomers who tended to be bored by the Mass in English we turned Sunday worship into a sing-a-long that touched all the right strings 
" CRUISE JOBS--,~ 
Students Needed! Earn$2..00()+-I month workingforcruise shipsor tour companies. Holiday, Summer, and Full­Time employment available. For your '92/Y3 employment program call: 
Cn1i« Employment Services 
-

Thursday/ December 1Oth at 8pm S'I'~'I':E. THBATKB 
Downtown Kalamazoo/ MI 
On sale now at all Ticketmaste rs and 
the State Theatre box office. Charge ·~y phone at 616-345-6500 
When the St. Louis Jesuits carne along, offering us hymns that could replace the show tunes and ballads of alienation, campus ministers of all stripes thought they had died and gone to heaven. 
The baby-boomers' music had this in common with the Jesuit tunes that replaced it: those hymns supported the idea of worship as a community expe­rience. If the folk choir was tal­ented, the worship could seem tolerated, as a showcase for the hymns. 
Now, after many years of overdosing on the St. Louis Je­suits, all that music sounds tired to these old ears, though the students still seem to love it as much as the baby-boomers did. Some students always seem pleased with Mass, celebrated as a party honoring somebody nice: whether Pooh-bear or Jesus, either will do. 
Masses on campus have a tendency to become love-ins. Students, discovering their beauty as brothers and sisters, start to imagine that they are seeing the face of God. But even as a Christian community, they don't need all that closeness, if it causes them to overlook the Eternal High Priest welcoming them to His table. Woodstock is in the land of the lotus-eaters; although glittery and alluring, it is not the real world. 
Would it be subversive to say here that I worry when I read in the Observer of theology re­quirements that can be fulfilled by the student's making weekly trips to a nursing horne? 
I appreciate the love and kindness shown by students when they perform the corporal acts of mercy, since my mother spent the last 20 years of her life in nursing homes; but in learning theology, can activism really take the place of study? 
The poet Swinburne preferred the earthiness of paganism to the Christianity replacing it. He complained: "Thou hast conquered, 0 pale Galilean; the world has grown gray from Thy Breath." 
The Galilean preacher credited mostly with teaching us to appreciate one another pales in significance when compared to the cosmic Christ worshipped in the Apocalypse as the Alpha and the Omega. Demythologized by the churches, He becomes merely lovable, like the Pooh-bear whom the children hug before falling asleep. 
Believing in Christ as the Al­pha and Omega, I feel like telling students at Mass: "Stop huddling together like warm puppies, and leave room for Him." When students tell me they're on their way to retreats more centered on them than it will be on Him, I ask them if they believe that He is the Vine and they are the branches. 
When they say that they believe in their hearts all that the 15th chapter of John has to say about the Vine and the branches, I tell them, "Then He must increase, and you must decrease." If they object that those words of John the Baptist aren't mentioned in that para­ble, I answer: "I mean your egos." 
On my cynical days, I encour­aged undergraduates who are looking for meaningful rela­tionships to become mavericks and loners. "The Church has room at the top for misfits who cause trouble. The Lord Himself was a loner distrusted as a subversive. 
If He had not been a loner, He would now be regarded as an also-ran in the gallery of the world's great heroes. As the prince of mavericks and the lone wolf without equal, He turned the Cross into a bridge over troubled waters, so that we can all go to heaven with unscarred feet. 
The bibliography about lone wolves who rose from rags to riches begins with Melville's "Moby Dick." "Call me Ish­mael," says Ishmael, introduc­ing himself. In other words, "Call me by the name of the Biblical outlaw against whom every man's hand was turned." He goes to sea, he tells us, whenever it's November and he's feeling suicidal. Why? Be­cause "meditation and water are forever wedded." 
Later, he explains what every lone wolf should know: "As in landlessness alone resides the highest truth, shoreless, indefinite as God-so, better is it to perish in that howling infinite, than be ingloriously dashed upon the lee, even if that were safety! For worm­like, then, oh! who would craven crawl to land!" 
Holden Caufield wouldn't be so appealing as a loner if he weren't so much like an orphan making his way unaided. He starts: "If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you'll probably want to know is where I was born, and what my lousy childhood was like . . . and all that David Copperfield kind of crap, but I don't feel like going into it." 
As a sixteen-year-old who has lost his bearings, he pictures himself as a catcher in the rye, saving the children. The surprise of the story is the sweetness in this lad, on his way to self-destruction, that makes him credible as a Christ­figure. 
Old men sounding unhappy can be put out of their pain with a cup of hemlock; but that mostly happens in other coun­tries where lone wolves who complain have no one to love them. I haven''t been trying to rock the boat a bit because I'm unhappy with it. But sometimes I'm unhappy with myself for not understanding change, and speaking my mind is my way of asking for help. 


DIDYOUKNO 


That while you are home feasting on Thanksgiving dinner, poor families in South Bend will go hungry with no food to feed their children ... 
UNLESS YOU HELP! 
We will be delivering food baskets Monday, Tuesday & Wednesday of Thanksgiving week to these 350 poor families in our community. If you can donate any of your time during those three days, 
PLEASE CALL 
Kara Luckew X2693 ALSO, don't forget that the $for these baskets comes from Y 0 U. Don't forget to donate $1 at your hall mass on Sunday, November 23. 
Friday, November 20, 1992 page 15 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES ATIENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or800-439-5313. WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 TYPING 287-4082 WordWorks Typing Service Term papers, dissertations, theses 277-7406 ..Spring Break! .. Bahamas Cruise (+10 Meals) $279! Panama City with kitchen $119 Cancun $429! Jamaica $479! Daytona (kitchens) $1491 KeyWest $249! Prices increase 12/11/92! 1-800-678-6386 $$TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT: Make $$$$$ and assist Ameritech Information Sys. with the ND telephone conversion. We have evening work available in Decem­ber and all shifts over Christmas break. Please call 239-8856 for more information. All WORDPROCESSING services. Andy 234-8789 ILOST &·FOUND I LOST: Old St. Louis Browns hat. Gray with Brown brim and yellow lettering. Might have been lost near Stepan. Very high sentimental value. Call Wally x3443. $$Reward$$ HELP ME... I lost my jacket at the Spin Doctors concert.. It's a green barn jacket with blue corduroy cuffs and collar and the label says Forester. You know how cold it gets in South Bend. I NEED my coat. Plus it has sentimental value because my sister gave it to me and she doesn't live in the country anymore. If you found it, please contact Bethany at 283-2702. &·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·&·& LOST: (11/4 in Chern Lab) Adjustable fake-silver ring with green plastic stone. This ad costs me more than it is worth! Call 2721 and ask for Bridget if you've got it. LOST-Gold Claddagh wedding band in front of Macris Deli HUGE CASH REWARD! Call Liz 1271 HELP! LOST: simple gold ring with a pearl in the middle on 11/17 somewhere between Haggar and Walsh. Great sent. value! If you find it you will gain a friend for life and some $too. Anne X2995 Lost: GOLD PULSAR WATCH please call me if found Jen X1271 LOST: Sister's N.J. license on B.C. wkend name-Meghan Shannon REWARD! call Joellenx4814 LOST-AT BRIDGETS AFTER BC GAME, A PURPLE SKI JACKET WITH A PINK ZIP-OUT LINER.  Happy Happy! Joy Joy! Ren &Stimpy Rules HELP ... SKI SEASON IS NEAR !!! BUT my SKI IS are NOT HERE. LOST: Two pairs of downhill skiis in blue ski bag,(Rossignol 4S & K2) LAST SEEN: Farley Hall , but could be anywhere. I know, pretty difficult to "lose".. Please contact Paula w/ and for info@ 4271. Reward if found. Thanks. WANTED NEED A RIDE FOR 2 TO MINNESOTA FOR THANKSGIVING. WILL PAY GAS. CALL MOLLY x4121. ************WANTED*•************ Ride to Scranton, PA or any where along 1-80 in PA for Thanksgiving. Will help with gas, tolls and driving. Flexible in departure and return times. CALL JILL@ X4758 FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!! Individuals and Student Organizations wanted to promote the Hottest Spring Break Destinations, call the nation's leader. Inter-Campus programs 1-800-327-6013. Need ride to Delaware Valley area for Thanksgiving. Will share costs & driving. Eric x1200 HELP A DESPERATE TARHEEL GET BACK TO NC FOR XMAS BREAK ERIC X1757 Need a ride to Purdue in West Lafayette this weekend. Call Andrea at 2721. Will help with gas and tolls. Looking for a male undergrad who wants to move off campus for summer or next year. A friend of mine is moving out to South Bend and is in desperate need of finding a roommate. He's a really nice guy. I promise. If you're interested please call Maria x4266 ­you won't be sorry!! , ·r--• ... . -Female roommate wanted-Campus View Apts. for next semester. Call Erin or Nancy 273-2565. Babysitter wanted for occasional evenings out. Experience & own transportation preferred. Pay negotiable. Call277-9682 ext 632. I NEED A RIDE TO THE MILWAUKEE AREA WED NOV 25 CALL JULIE X3736 Ride wanted to CLEVELAND for Thanksgiving Break. Will pay for gas, tolls, and maybe fries along the way!!! Call284-5254....THANKS!!! FOR RENT Room for Rent For 2nd Sem: House 5 min from campus. Call287-4227 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 FOR SALE IBM COMPATIBLE SOFTWARE: $2 EACH. WANTED: COMPUTERS. 1530 WESTERN AVE., SB. 287-7550. CHRISTMAS SWEATSHIRTS for sale!!! Call to see samples ... 273­2967. Selling a plane ticket to North Carolina over Thanksgiving break. Interested? Call Dave at 283-3662. SKIS Atomic 833 sl-203 em. new, great price call Kevin x1 062 For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call  1931 Knute Rocke Limited Edition Autobiography #2039 of 2400, signed, best offer. Kennedy books also; ph 277-037 4 evenings. TICKETS @@@@@@@@@@ Feel the sun, Feel the sand, See the coast, Enjoy the culture, All this and more for those who buy my USC GAs. Go to CALl & not South Bend with the help of my GAs. Clarke 234-9433 @2@2@2@2@2@ Selling 4 USC tix John 277-5415 FOR SALE -2 U.S.C. TIX CALL TED-513-492-5190 I need two USC TICKETS!! Tara #4766 PERSONAL Hey Niff OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES EVERY FRIDAY IS RESUME DAY at The Copy Shop in LaFortune SAVE 20% off copies on our resume paper PAWN BUY SELL TRADE OZARK TRADING POST 1530 WESTERN AVE. 287-7550 ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent ed14Cation and wonderful future for your baby. Confidential and legal. Expenses paid. Call Cyndi and AI collect anytime (805) 520-5978 or attorney (818) 241­5535. MEN AND WOMEN FREE HAIRCUT AND STYLE For more info, call COSIMO'S 277-1875. PI MAlLY PIMAILY PIMAILY PI MAlLY SAVE BIG ON SPRING BREAK '93! JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLORIDA FROM $119. BOOK EARLY, SAVE $$.ORGANIZE GROUP TRAVEL FREE! CALL 1-800-426-7710. $5.50 HAIRCUTS VITO'S BARBER & STYLING SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 ADOPTION: Loving Catholic couple dreams of sharing life with newborn. Hear us on our taped message. Confidential. Expenses paid. 1-800­467-8522. Need ride for 2 to Cleveland area for Thanksgiving. Right off 1-80 Will pay gas and tolls. Call Jill X3705 To the Folks in SEATTLE, Issaquah WASHINGTON, I'M DOING WELL, BUT I STILL DON'T HAVE A JOB, WHAT GIVES? SEND MONEY AND VIRTUAL REALITY INFORMATION TO SOUTH BEND ASAP SEE VA PATRICK  RICH, HAVE FUN WITH YOUR HOT DATES THIS WEEKEND! I'LL PICK YOU UP AT 8­THEN AGAIN, MAYBE EARLIER. -BLAS COLL, SABOL, JEN, IT'S TIME TO PARTY HARD. ONLY ONE SEMESTER LEFT. COLL, how about your plans for monday night? You couldn't have forgot, seeing as you reminded us 20 times during the game! Sabol, PARTY HARD. -Love, your most favorite Walshiite friend. EARTH JAM '92 TODAY, 3-7 PM Stepan Center BANDS! BANDS! BANDS! ••• Brian, Colin & Vince ••• Dysfunktion ••• Grope for Luna *** Sister Chain $1 Admission for all day! WILDLIFE T-SHIRTS, MEX. BLANKETS, BUTIONS, BUMPER STICKERS, POSTCARDS, '93 GIFT CALENDARS, DATE BOOKS, & MORE ON SALE NOW. 108 LAFORTUNE 10:30-4:30. GREAT HOLIDAY GIFTS!! NEVER! It's not gonna happen!...Sorry! From, "You know who you are" P.S.: Sorry it took so long to get back to you. Desparately seeking ride to INDIANA UNIVERSITY early Sat. 11/21 and returning Sunday Will Pay Call4656 To The Six-Foot Asian: HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY!!! This is my drunken message, "SHE WILL BE YOURS ... OH YES!!I!!" Tex and Goose HAPPY B-DAY 'RETIA! The "Lovely Miss Loretta" is aging fast. Look out guys, she's now 22 and wrinkling. Help her drown her sorrows this weekend. See you there-Love ya, Molly..................................... Hello Terri!!! Hello Ron!!! SUSIE A. We are so proud of you! Good luck tonight! Your buddies from rm. 454. PATRICK, PATRICK, PATRICK C Thanks for all the messages! You're right ... Tonight is the night. It's time for you to (Sd.1, Sg.1)! And then, if '1uzzies" enter the picture, it will be (Sd.1, Sg.25) when I say: (Sd.1, Sg.28). Enough inside jokes, I can't wait to dance with you one last time. I'll see you at 8:00. Love, U NEE WOO WOO!!!!! We're off to see the wizard! Time to lose control!! Absolut-lyl HEY LA, I'm looking forward to WARMING it up with you tonight, but try to keep your pants on!!!! heh-heh-heh Love, The Red-Bird  *Sister Chain *Dysfunktion SHORT ON CASH ? Stop by MORRISSEY LOAN Mon.-Fri.: 11:30-12:30 1st Floor LaFortune O'Hara Lounge 30 day loans up to $250 @ 1% interest !!!!!ll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!! BEWARE BEWARE HOBBES IS 21 (Sorry you had to face all the abuse, & yes, I will take you out to dinner when you sober up.) !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Uncle Roscoe is coming for Christmas!! Washington Hall Dec.3,4,5 PLEASE HELP, NEED RIDE FOR 2 TO DAYTON, OH FOR THANKSGIVING, WILL HELP PAY GAS/TOLLS. CALL DAN, X2318 LOSE FAT! Healthy, guaranteed diet program. Affordable. Call (616)471­3970. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! I ! ! I !! ! !! ! ! ! !! HELP! We have had an overwhelming #of requests for Thanksgiving baskets this year. PLEASE help us shop, arrange and/or deliver, and share the blessings of the holiday with families in need. Monday-Wednesday, 11123-25: 8 a.m.-meet at the esc to go grocery shopping. 12 noon-4 p.m.--<:ome to the esc at any time to help put food in baskets. 4 p.m. on-Help deliver baskets to homes in the area. They need you. Please help us. Call2639, 4059, or 271-7889 with questions. God bless, The World Hunger Coalition Hi Robert, thought I'd send some love from Rome. I miss you. It's almost Jan. 6! Can't wait 2 see U. Ti amo caro mio, Leah Ciao! Just a friend from Rome here wanting 2 let my pals know I miss them. 2 my great friends: Tiff C. McGow-Nicole-Rock+Roomies­Pozer-NOT Tobi TOE-Bay! C U next semester, Have great holiday & think of me! I miss you. Vi Amo sempre Marisa Ciao belle! Jo-Laurie, Jo-Lizzy, Jo-Kelli, Jo-Boob, Dawny, Cheryl and everyone. Can't wait to see you in Jan. -Gina Christmas comes early this year. NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB CHRISTMAS CONCERT Saturday, December 12, at 8:15 p.m. in the J.A.C.C. I'm driving to ATHENS, GA (via atlanta) for Thanksgiving & I NEED someone to ride with me. If interested, please call283-2454 for details. Twas the night before the formal. And all through the house. Every creature was stirring. Why? It's UNCLE ROSCOE, that louse! BOSTON, BOSTON, BOSTON!!! Desperate student needs ride to BOSTON for Thanksgiving! Will pay AT LEAST HALF of expenses! If you have room, please call BEN at x1658. "SPECIAL K" & "DANNY"  SLIDER, what's going on at MINTS? Go SUNY Brockpo11 girls! Everyone's going to WEGMANS! Drew's the King!!! *•THE DEAD SEA TROLLS.. Live at Bridget's -Saturday Nov 21st-10:30 pm ..DEAD SEA TROLLS.. ..BRIDGETS.. ..SATURDAY-10:30pm.. Happy birthday Michael I know that it has been along time since we went to the bars( over a year now-gotta hate losing that fake), but don't worry. From now on, we can just b.s. at some local bar. How many days 'til there's a red headed woman in new jersey? I don't know i'm asking? 2 all instigators I have not dated anyone at ND so get a life and stay out of mine Love Ed Fletes GRAY'S "ELEGY" and SEX, WHAT ELSE NEEDS TO BE SAID? The LEECH is finally nineteen! You finally caought up with the ret of us. Love, Weenster, Mom, Kegger, Bob, Rudy, More-ahh, and Wawa. If you have nothing better to do on your Friday nights, tune in to WSND's "Nocturne" show from midnight 'til 2 a.m. for the latest in alternative tunes. It's quite a feast of ear candy at88.9 FM. REJECTION INCARNATE Be careful what you say for revenge is sweet, and you never know when you'll run into EVIL. Yo SEX GODDESS: I'm coming back to haunt you again. I hope that life is going super-great and that you haven1 seduced any more men yet. The poor Westpoint chap must be quite anxious to come home. Have a warm and fuzzy Thanksgiving! Love, Weenster BOOBALICIOUS: Sorry that this birthday wish is late, but we who work late at this publication are never sure about space. Hope you had a great twentieth! Your next-door neighboor in 1-North Hey formal dates, We can't wait for Saturday, you studs! Love, Alicia and Erin Hey Dude, Babe, Boss Man, Suck it up and go to the formal on Saturday. To the cutie from South Quad in the hat are you busy this weekend wild woman? Love, a secret admirer Cahill: You are quite the man-magnet, and don1 deny it! You are going to ask the "chute " boy to the formal or else I'll have the Sex Geddes torture you in some fitting fashion. Your roomie Hey girl in 348-­Hope that you are all in for a great Hollywood experience!  - 
PLEASE CALL MIKE X1103 LOST IN THE FIELD FRENZY AFTER THE IRISH VICTORY: Blue Noter Dame w/ about 8 beer caps snaped to it. A Green snap on hood. A Blue snap on hood. $$$$ CASH $$$$$$$$ $$$$ REWARD $$$$$$$$  Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 SEGA GENESIS & GMS: BST OFR 273-2514 SONY INTEGRATED AMPLIFIER 135 watts/channel, full remote, EO NEVER USED. $150/0BO Jason x2990  HEY JEN BEISTY (our favorite RA-and you know what it means!!!) HAVE YOU MENTIONED THAT TONY'S COMING TO TOWN IN THE LAST FIVE MINUTES???  •**EARTH JAM '92*** FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20 3-7 PM STEPAN CENTER $1 ADMISSION 4 LIVE BANDS!!! *Brian, Colin & Vince •Grope for Luna  How are those pearly whites? SMILE!! -AI Have you been to WEGMANS yet? PAUL, did you pay for those chips?  Schmoozie: I was tempted to use your secret nickname, but I'm feeling quite merciful at the moment. Younger men are fairly suave ... Gray's "Elegy" should always have the last word ...  

----~­

,. 
w L T Pes. PF PA Buffalo 8 2 BOO 260 189 Miami 7 3 0 .700 250 1n lndlanapolll 4 8 0 .400 133 223 N.Y . .lela 3 7 0 .300 183 202 New England! II 0 .100 138 257 
Centre! Plltabl.rgh 7 3 0 .700 198 139 Houston 8 4 0 . 800 230 178 Cleveland 5 5 0 .500 154 1511 Cincinnati 4 8 0 
.400 184 2211 W•t Denver 7 3 0 
.700 175 183 Kansas Clty64 0 .800 204 158 San Diego 5 5 0 .500 158 185 LA Raldenl 4 8 0 
-l: 
.400 152 171 Seallla 1 II 0 .100 59 194 
NAnoNAL CONFERENCE 

Eaet w L T Pes. PF PA 
Dalas 8 2 0 .800 247 152 Philadelphia& 4 0 .800 208 134 Waahlngton8 4 0 .800 175 187 N.Y. Giants 5 5 0 .500 214 202 Phoenix 3 7 0 
.300 174 225 Central Minnesota 7 3 0 
.700 2511 181 Chicago 4 8 0 .400 224 244 GrMO Bey 4 8 0 .400 151 215 Tampa Bay 4 8 0 .400 184 227 Detron 2 8 0 .200 1n 218 
W•t San FranclacoB 2 0 .800 2112 172 New Orleana7 3 0 .700 191 138 Atlanta 4 8 0 .400 188 285 LA Rams 4 8 0 .400 190 208 
COMPACT DISCS I 
......... 
(./) 
w 
1/) <( 
() 
......... 
(./) 
w 
0:: 
0 
(./) (./) 
w 
() 
() 
<( 


0 
0 
~ 
<( 
......... 
(./) 
0 
w 0 
> 
......... 
(./) 
w 


1­f-
w 
(./) 

-(./) 
<( 

SHABBA 
() 

RANKS 
......... 




TEXAS RANGERS-Named Jackie Moore center, to SwHI Current of the Western Hockey
dugout coach.

1992 M.C.C. IIIII EYBAU CHAMPIOISHIP 
League.
National League 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Called up MikeCOLORADO ROCKIES-Named Ron

A.J. Palumbo Center, Pittsburgh 

Hurlbut, defennman, from Binghamton of theHassey, llrat base coach; Amoa Otll, hitting coach; American Hockey League. Sent Peter Anderaaon,

and Jerry ~. third base coach. 
delennman, to BlngharTcon.

NEW YORK METS-Traded Pat Howell,
Quarterfinals SemHinals Championship 
TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING-Recalled Steve

outfielder, to the Mlnn.ota Twlna lor Darren Read,
Fri., Nov. 20 Sat., Nov. 21 Sat., Nov. 21 
Mahala, left wing, from Atlanta of the International 
outfielder. 
Hockey League.

PITISBURGH PIRATES Releued Vicente Colonial Hockey League
Palacios, picher, and Gary Varsho, outfielder. 
FLINT BULLDOGS-Signed Steve
1 Notre Dame 

SAN DIEGO PADRES-Sent Dave Eiland, MacSwaln, center. 
pncher, outright to Las Vegas of the PacHic Coast COLLEGE 
L8ague. 
COAST GUARD-Fired Tom Bell, football

8 BASKETBALL 
coach. 
Nad-1 Baaketbell A-cledon SPRINGFIELD-Named Bill Bates men'sBOSTON CELTIC8--fllacad Ed Pinckney, graduate aaalatant basketball coach and Amy Smithforward, on the Injured lilt. Acllvalad Marcus Webb,

5 
women's graduate assistant basketball coach . 
forward, from the Injured 1111. 
MANHATTAN-Named Karen RobinsonSEATTLE SUPERSONICS-Waived Corey women's assistant basketbal coach.

Gaines, guard. 
MCNEESE-Suspended Darrlk Clark,Continental Baaketbell Auocladon

4 
basketball guard, lndellnnely lor disciplinary reasons.
GRAND RAPIDS HOOPS-Signed Gerald TEMPLE-Fired Jerry Berndt football coach,Madkins, guard. Traded the rights to Ledell Eackles, effective Nov. 2t. 
3 
guard, and a 19113 llxth-round draft pick to the Rapkf Cny Thrillers lor Yaman Sandelll, center. 
6 
LA CROSSE CATBIRDS-Placed Stuart Gray, cenler, on l~ured reaerve. SCHEDULE OKLAHOMA CITY CAVALRY-Signed Derrick Garvtn, forward, and Jawam Oldham, center. 
QUAD CITY THUNDER-Placed Harold College Football ScheduleEHia, forward, on Injured reserve. 
By The Aasodaled p,_.

ROCKFORD LIGHTNING-Signed Lea Salurday, Nov. 2t
7 
EASTJepsen, ~-r,·X FALLS SKYFORCE-Signed 

Boston Colege (7-2-1) Ill ArmJ (4-5)
Ande111on Hunt, guard. 

2 
Plllaburgh (3-7) Ill Penn St. (6-4) Miami ~~ Ill Syracuse (~I) 
TRI·CITY CHINOOK-Signed Michael 
Anderson, guard. 
SOUTHWICHITA FALLS TEXANS-Placed Brad North Carolna (7-3) 81 Duke (2-ll) Baldridge, center, and Slallond Johnson, forward, on Wake Forest (7-3) 81 North Carolina St.

Injured reserve. 
(~2-1)

YAKIMA SUN KINGS-Placed Pete 
Kentucky (4-6) 81 Tannes-(6-3)Freeman, forward, on Injured reserve. 
Florida (7-2) Ill Vanderbilt (4-5) 
FOOTBALL 
MIDWESTNational Football League Kansas (7-3) at Mllaourl (2-ll) An.ANTA FALCONS-Signed Jell Graham, 

Michigan (~0-2) Ill Ohio Sl. (6-2)

quarterback, to the practice squad. Moved Derrick SOUTHWESTMoore, running back, from the practice aquad to 
Texaa Chrlltlan (2-7-1) at Texas A&M sunday'a OamM Injured ';~s COWBOYS-Signed Mickey Pruitt, (10-0) AdarU Ill Butlalo. 1 p.m. FAR WEST Clelleland Ill Mlnn.ota. 1 p.m. lineback~-INNESOTA VIKINGS-Released Mark Arizona St. (5-5) Ill Arizona (6-3-1 ), 
Dallol1 Ill Cilclnnall, 1 p.m. Night
Duababek, linebacker.

Green Bay Ill Chicago, 1 p.m Stanford (6-3) 111 Cailomla (4-6)
PHILADELPHIA EAGLES-Placed BrillHou8lon Ill Miami, 1 p.m. Iowa St. (4-6) at Colorado (8-1-1)
Hager, linebacker, on Injured raaarve. Activated
lndlanapolll Ill Pm.burgh, 1 p.m Southern Cal (6-2-1) Ill UCLA (5-5),
Ephaalana Bartley, linebacker, from the practloa
Ph~la Ill Naw YOlk Giants, 1 p.m Night
aquad. Signed Andre Powell, linebacker, to the
New YOlk .lela Ill New England, 4 p.m. Wuhlngton (9-1) Ill W•hlngton St. (7­
practice aquad.

Dallaa Ill Phoenix, 4 p.m. 3)
PITISBURGH STEELERS-Walved AlanDenver 111 Loa Angelel Raldenl, 4 p.m. 
Haler, cornerback, and added him to their practloa
San Francllco Ill Loa Angelel Rame, 4 
aouad. 

p.m. Tampa Bay 81 San Diego, 4 p.m. KarHa City Ill Salnle, 8 p.m. 
lllonday'a a­Wuhlng1on 111 New OriNna, 9 p.m. 
CASSETTES I VIDEOS I AUDIO ACCESSORIES I CARRYING CASES I HOME STORAGE I 


0
HOLIDAY 
Ul 
(") 
Ul

HITS 
......... 
(") )> Ul Ul


,..,
COLUMBIA 
-i -i
,.., 


Ul 
< 
0

eDStt.ss 
,.., 
0 
Ul

TAPE$7.99 
)>

EXPIRES 11125192 
c 
0 
0 
)> (")

lUI HAMMIS 
(") 
,.., 
Ul Ul 
0

NOJHI DAMI BOOKSIOHI ::0 

X-TRA NAKED 
,..,
(./) 

one: lUCio""' 
SLOW AND SEXY
() 


Ul 
!FEATURING JOHNNY GILL)(./) 
.. on t~e cam~us··
WHAT 'CHA GONNA DQ? 
(FEATURIItG OtJEEN LATIFAHI 
.........

TING·A-LING
0 

TWO BREDDRENS 
!FEATURING CHUBB ROCK) 
(") 
)>

~ ....~~.,c.~ ...,......,
1­

~~-"-'~1 ~~ "'~·-· 11.... ,rg, 
(./)
() 

.._, "'"' li.•• ''"""'"'~ 
,..,

......,..~, ... -:....,•l1.,.,rA
<( 

OPlN MONDAY-SAJUHDAY 9-5
..:...-·~-.....,......,.... 
.........~ ... ,........ b..,~"'""' 
Ul I: 0 
c.. 
() 

COMPACT DISCS I CASSETTES I VIDEOS I AUDIO ACCESSORIES I CARRYING CASES /HOME STORAGE 
• I 
---------------------------~

1..·---~-·--------------------------------····-.-...---..----------­
l 
I I Friday, November 20, 1992 The Observer page 17 I 
...

Mirer among the finalists for the O'Brien Quarterback award 
FORT WORTH, Texas (AP) ­Seniors Elvis Grbac of Michigan, Gino Torretta of Miami and Florida's Shane Matthews are among the 10 finalists for the 1992 Davey O'Brien National Quarterback award. 
The three also were finalists in 1991. 
The others, announced Thursday by the O'Brien Advi­sory Committee, are: Drew Bledsoe, Washington State; Glenn Foley, Boston College; Marvin Graves, Syracuse; Shawn Jones, Georgia Tech; Rick Mirer, Notre Dame; Alex Van Pelt, Pittsburgh; and Char­lie Ward, Florida State. 
Grbac is the sparkplug for the Wolverines, who are returning to the Rose Bowl for a second straight year. 
Matthews has guided the de­fending Southeast Conference champion Gators on a six-game winning streak and a possible spot in the first SEC title game. 
Torretta is 24-1 as a starter for the defending national champion and top-ranked ranked Hurricanes. 
Mirer, a three-year starter for the Irish, has led Notre Dame to an 8-1-1 record and has set numerous records for Irish quarterbacks. Mirer has been mentioned as possibly the best player in this year's upcoming NFL. Even after Notre Dame.'s only loss this season to the Cardinal of Stanford, Mirer received high praise. 
Bill Walsh, the Stanford coach, said that he would "definitely" take Mirer if he had the first pick despite his poor performance that day. 
Following the games on Nov. 28, the Advisory Committee will select three finalists who will appear on the Second Annual Subway College Football Awards Show, on Dec. 6 on ABC-TV. 
The winner and runners-up will be announced during the show from the College Football Hall of Fame building in Kings Island, Ohio. 
The three players then will be honored at the annual awards dinner, Monday, Feb. 8, at the Fort Worth Club. 
Ty Detmer of Brigham Young University won the 1990 and 1991 O'Brien Awards, becoming the first repeat winner. 
The first award was presented to Jim McMahon of BYU following the 1981 season. 
Members of the Advisory 
Committee who will select the three finalists are: Mark Blaud­chun, Boston Globe; Jimmy Burch and Gayln Wilkins, Fort Worth Star-Telegram; Ron Franklin, ESPN; Denne Free­man and Rick Warner, The As­sociated Press; Keith Jackson, ABC-TV; Sally Jenkins, Sports Illustrated; Ivan Maisel and Blackie Sherrod, The Dallas Morning News; Mike Rabun, United Press International; Ed Sherman, Chicago Tribune; Steve Wieberg, USA Today; Gene Wojciechowski, Los Angles Times; and Jim Brock, Cotton Bowl Athletic Association. 
Brock also serves as chairman of the 0' Brien Advisory Committee. 
Carrier Dome showcases two of the top quarterbacks 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. (AP) -While top-ranked Miami and No. 8 Syracuse battle in one af the biggest games of the season Saturday, there will be another competition going on in the Carrier Dome. 
The second part of the double feature will match two of the nation's top quarterbacks ­Marvin Graves of Syracuse and Gino Torretta of Miami. Graves leads the country in passing, while Torretta is one of the fa­vorites for the Heisman Trophy. 
"I try not to compare our­selves," Graves said. "It's Miami against Syracuse, not Graves against Torretta. Individual honors come with team success." 
Torretta also downplays the personal duel, even though a good showing would boost his chances for the Heisman. 
"It's not a one-man show," he said. "I rely on my receivers, my line, my running backs and my defense. I know if we don't win ballgames, statistics don't mean anything." 
Both quarterbacks have spent a lot of time in the spotlight this week while awaiting Saturday's game between the Orangemen (9-1) and the Hurricanes (9-0). 
Torretta is 24-1 as a starter, leading Miami to more victories than any of the school's other celebrated quarterbacks, in­cluding Vinny Testaverde, Bernie Kosar and Jim Kelly. 
Torretta holds Miami career records for passing yards, total offense, attempts and comple­tions. And he needs only three touchdown passes to move ahead of all-time leaders Tes-

WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
A workshop tor couples in a senous relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992 6:30 -10:30 pm 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
-Stages of relationships -Expectations for the future -Steps in making healthy decisions 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR THIS WORKSHOP 
' 

BUT... REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED BY NOV.30 
Applications can be filled out at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
taverde and Steve Walsh. 
He also throws very few inter­ceptions. Torretta has had just four passes picked off in 324 attempts this year and is on a school-record streak of 122 passes without an interception. 
"He understands the offense and knows where to go with the football," coach Dennis Er­ickson said. "If it's not there, he throws it out of bounds so we can kick and play defense." 
Miami quarterbacks have been sacked only 12 times this season. 
"He throws the ball so quickly. You can get pressure on him, but he doesn't take sacks," Syracuse coach Paul Pasqualoni said. "You can blitz him 
perfectly ­ come untouched all  
the way ­ and he still gets the  
ball off."  

Erickson has equal respect for Graves, who was a freshman when Miami manhandled Syracuse 33-7 in 1990. 
Graves, who says he will re­turn for his senior season, al­ready holds Syracuse career records for completions and needs just 39 yards Saturday to break the school mark for ca­reer yardage. 
This season, Graves has completed 61 percent of his at­tempts (133 of 218) for 2,151 yards and 14 touchdowns. His only disappointing number is the 10 interceptions he's thrown, but four of those came in Syracuse's 35-12 loss to Ohio State. 
"His leadership has stepped up," Miami linebacker Micheal Barrow said. "His ability to 


Hair & Nail Studio 
OPEN 6 Days AWeek 
STUDENT SPECIAL 
$10 off a full sef of nails 
189-4335 
2301 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend 
make the right pass at the right time has impressed us, his ability to move his team down the field."  
"He's the key ingredient to their offense and makes everything click. You get a guy who can run the option,. pass and scramble, you have to have somebody in his face all the time."  
Pasqualoni said the Orange offensive line has to make sure that doesn't happen.  
"They come screaming off the ball, and we have to do a great job," he said. "If they're in the backfield, then Marvin can't play his game. If Marvin can't play his game, we're not going  
to be any good."  
Barrow is a  
Butkus finalist  
ORLANDO, Fla. (AP) -Mi­ami's Micheal Barrow, Wash­ington's Dave Hoffman and Florida State's Marvin Jones were selected Thursday as fi­nalists for the Butkus Award, presented annually to the na­tion's top college linebacker.  
Barrow and Hoffman are se­niors, while Jones is a junior who also was a semifinalist as a sophomore in 1991.  - 
Barrow is the leader of top­ranked Miami's defense and has 101 tackles (58 solo, six for losses), and one sack this sea­ 
son. Hoffman has 88 tackles (41 solo, 17 1/2 for losses) and eight sacks, and Jones will go into Florida State's regular­season finale with 97 tackles (60 solo, four for losses) and one sack.  
The winner will be announced Dec. 12 at the annual Butkus Award banquet sponsored by the Downtown Athletic Club of Orlando.  - 

[Ri(8;~~(8; R(8;d~CG(8; R(8;CGWt ~ (8) 

Call 239-5242 for mare information 
5 minutes from campus 
page 18 
The Observer 
Friday, November 20, 1992 

Eckersley wins AL 
NEW YORK (AP) -Oakland reliever Dennis Eckersley, named the American League Cy Young Award winner last week, was also selected the league's Most Valuable Player on Thursday. 
Eckersley, who led the majors with 51 saves in 54 chances, is only the ninth player to win both the Cy Young Award and MVP honors in the same sea­son. He joins Don Newcombe (1956), Sandy Koufax (1963), Denny McLain (1968), Bob Gib­son (1968), Vida Blue (1971), Hollie Fingers (1981), Willie Hernandez (1984) and Roger Clemens (1986). 
The 38-year-old right-hander is only the fourth reliever to win the MVP. The first was Jim Konstanty in 1950, followed by
... 
Fingers and Hernandez. 

"Part of me was waiting by the phone because I thought I deserved it," Eckersley said. "It's hard to say because I'm not that cool to think I deserved an MVP. But if there was any time in my whole life I thought I deserved it, this is the mo­ment." 
Eckersley, 7-1 with a 1.91 ERA, received 15 of a possible 28 first-place votes and 306 points in balloting by the Base­ball Writers Association of America. He was followed by Minnesota outfielder Kirby Puckett with 209 points, includ­ing three first-place votes, and Toronto outfielder Joe Carter with 201 points and four first first-place votes. 
Mark McGwire, Dave Winfield and Roberto Alomar also re-ceived first-place votes. 
at 7:00 Q.m. 11[20[92  
ACCT  231  05  2162  
ACCT  372  03  1447  
CSE  411  01  4471  
ECON  422  01  4209  
ECON  434  01  3597  
EE  354L  03  4485  
ENOL  317C  01  3726  
ENOL  416]  01  4634  
FIN  361  05  0720  
GOVT  343T  04  2197  
HIST  489  01  4296  
MSA  546  01  4438  
PHIL  239  01  1464  
PHIL  247  01  4338  
PHIL  257  01  4031  
PHIL  261  04  4725  
PHYS  222L  OS  2730  
soc  320  01  4393  
Closed sections as of  
7:00 I!·ffi· 11[19[92  
ACCT  232  03  2862  
ACCT  232  OS  2671  
ACCT  372  03  1447  
ACCT  380  03  1203  
ACCT  473  02  0490  
ACCT  477  01  0754  
ACCT  479  01  3081  
ACCT  480  02  2994  
ACCT  485  01  3399  
AERO  441L  01  28S9  
AFAM  204  01  4695  
AFAM  384A  01  3765  
- AFAM  389  01  3935  
AFAM  390B  01  4699  
AFAM  419Z  01  4698  
AFAM  420  01  4620  
AFAM  451  01  3873  
AFAM  454  01  3536  
AFAM  479  01  4084  
AMST  325  01  4158  
AMST  334  01  0316  
AMST  391  01  3440  
AMST  493  01  4161  
ANTH  328  01  3362  
ANTH  329  01  4164  
ANTH  329  02  4165  
ANTH  336  01  4166  
ANTH  361  01  3807  
ANTH  386  01  4686  
ANTH  389  01  3934  
ANTH  454  01  3454  

"There's a lot of deserving 
guys out there that have the 
everyday numbers," Eckersley 
said. "Everything fell into place. 
These things come around once 
in a lifetime." 

The AL MVP was expected to be the closest of all the postsea­son awards, but it didn't turn out that way. 
In the AL Cy Young voting last week, Eckersley received 19 of a possible 28 first-place votes. In 80 innings this season, Eck­ersley walked only 11. 
For winning the MVP award, Eckersley receives a $100,000 bonus, bringing his 1992 in­come to $3.35 million. Puckett also got a $100,000 bonus. 
Eckersley helped the A's win their fourth AL West title in five years, but struggled in the playoffs against Toronto, giving up Alomar's tying, two-run homer in the ninth of Game 4 at 
MVP and CyYoung 
Oakland. 

Puckett hit .329 for the Twins 
with 19 home runs and 110 
RBis. Carter helped Toronto 
win the AL East by hitting .264 
with 34 homers and 119 RBis. 
Eckersley began his major 
league career in 1975 with 
Cleveland, going 13-7 with a 
2.60 ERA, and threw a no-hitter on Memorial Day 1977 against the California Angels. After being traded to Boston before the 1978 season, he became the first Red Sox pitcher in seven years to win 20 games. 
Things began to go downhill for Eckersley in 1981, and in 1983 his record was 9-13. A trade to the Cubs in 1984 turned things around, but his growing struggles with alco­holism hurt his pitching. In 1986, he had a 6-11 mark. 
Eckersley was traded to the A's in 1987, and pitching coach Dave Duncan decided he should 


. SCHWINN.
~,4 ; 
: :; · >~ CYCLING . ' -~­
.:"' ,,.. . ·. and : · 
,> ··,I\. FITNESS :.. . 
BAKER'S BIKE SHOP. INC. • Sales • Service • Bike Stor~e and Packaging 
across rom Bob Evans 
135 DIXIE WAY SOUTH 3835 LINCOLNWAY EAST SOUTH BEND. IN 46637 MISHAWAKA. IN 46544 (219)277-8866 (219)259-4862 ROSELAND 
Classes that will reo(ten  ARCH  598B  01  0420  ENOL  201A  01  4214  GSC  424  '01  
ARCH  598F  01  0269  ENOL  201B  01  4215  GSC  493F  01  
ARHI  169  01  3150  ENOL  204  01  4063  GSC  498  01  
ARHI  462  01  3647  ENOL  300C  01  4223  HIST  116T  03  

go to the bullpen, where he saved 16 games with a 3.03 ERA. Earlier that year, Eckers­ley had joined Alcoholics Anonymous to battle his drink­ing problem. 
In the last five years, Eckers­
ley has been successful on 220 
of 246 save opportunities. 

In 1988, he finished second in the Cy Young voting to Min­nesota's Frank Viola after notching 45 saves in 54 oppor­tunities. Again, his brilliant season was overshadowed by one of the most famous blown saves in history. 
In Game 1 of the World Series, Eckersley retired the first two batters in the bottom of the ninth. After walking Mike Davis, he surrendered a towering home run to Kirk Gibson that lifted the Dodgers to a 5-4 win. The A's went on to lose in five 
~amP-s. 

IF ONE ARM FEELS NUMB, HERE'S WHAT TO DO WITH THE OTHER ONE. 
1l1e sudden onset of numb­nes.."\ or weakness in one ann or leg, dimness or loss of vision. sevt>re heada..·he. dizziness or loss ofsp<n:h Tht• w-..-ning ,;jgns of strokt·. If you ex1x•rience orw or more of thc.,;e symptoms. call a doctor illlllll'diatdy. To IP<Ull mon·. contact vour nt•an•st American H('a;1 Association. 
You canhrlp prr~ 1 eiJI hrarl disease a11d stmke We can tell 
you Jum•. 

Happy 20th_ Maya! 

Love, 
Pat, Anne, Becky, Amber, John Doe, the matchmaker, the psychologist, & Texas Ken 
4734 MGT 231 01 3119 RLST 213 20 4700 MGT 240 02 0097 RLST 213 22 1240 MGT 499 01 4425 RLST 240 24 3246 MI 309 01 3534 RLST 240 26 
ARHI  496  01  3654  ENOL  301  01  0648  HIST  309A  01  4299  Ml  403  01  4594  RLST  251  32  
ARST  134S  01  0146  ENOL  301C  01  0966  HIST  311A  01  4301  Ml  433  01  3785  RLST  261  34  
ARST  150K  01  1154  ENOL  312  01  0808  HIST  327A  01  4302  MSA  546  01  4438  RLST  261  36  
ARST  212S  01  2356  ENOL  314B  01  3756  HIST  357A  01  4288  MSA  547  01  1815  RLST  306  38  
ARST  232S  01  2361  ENOL  316F  01  4124  HIST  359  01  4306  MUS  220  01  3037  RLST  351  42  
ARST  242S  01  1250  ENOL  317C  01  3726  HIST  359A  01  4307  MUS  220  02  0899  ROFR  499  01  
ARST  246S  01  3464  ENOL  319B  01  4224  HIST  365A  01  4290  MUS  220  03  3252  ROSP  103  04  
ARST  292S  01  3346  ENOL  319E  01  4216  HIST  391  01  1938  MUS  220  04  4138  ROSP  231  04  
ARST  326S  01  0509  ENOL  325  01  1021  HIST  396  01  1427  MUS  222  01  1357  ROSP  235  01  
BA  362  01  2693  ENOL  329  01  0892  HIST  399  01  3356  MUS  225  01  0278  ROSP  236  01  
BA  391  01  0393  ENOL  340  01  1531  HIST  403  01  4289  MUS  226  01  0032  ROSP  329  01  
BA  391  02  1296  ENOL  373E  01  4217  HIST  403A  01  4291  NSCI  412  01  3192  ROSP  432  01  
BA  391  03  1690  ENOL  379C  01  4225  HIST  415A  01  4308  PHIL  203  01  1131  ROSP  494  01  
BA  464  01  3111  ENOL  384A  01  3764  HIST  454  01  3537  PHIL  221  01  4332  ROSP  499  01  
BA  490  01  0677  ENOL  390B  01  4226  HIST  454A  01  4311  PHIL  222  01  0298  RU  376  01  
BA  490  04  2439  ENOL  412C  01  4227  HIST  460  01  1025  PHIL  235  01  4335  soc  214  01  
BA  490  07  0663  ENOL  414B  01  4713  HIST  460A  01  4312  PHIL  239  01  1464  soc  220  01  
BIOS  344L  02  1305  ENOL  4161  01  4228  HIST  483A  01  4295  PHIL  241  02  2725  soc  234  01  
BIOS  407L  01  0375  ENOL  416]  01  4634  HIST  489  01  4296  PHIL  242  03  4337  soc  242  01  
BIOS  411L  01  2234  ENOL  417  01  4245  HIST  699  01  1122  PHIL  244  01  0022  soc  242  02  
BIOS  411L  03  2308  ENOL  422  01  1022  liPS  493  01  4562  PHIL  245  01  3548  soc  320  01  
BIOS  412L  01  2613  ENOL  426F  01  4230  liPS  507  01  3422  PHIL  246  01  2483  soc  346  01  
BIOS  412L  02  0587  ENOL  433B  01  3784  liPS  673  01  4591  PHIL  247  01  4338  soc  379  01  
CAPP  316  01  2763  ENOL  440  01  4233  LAW  605  01  2364  PHIL  248  01  4030  soc  415  01  
CAPP  361  01  1683  ENOL  45SB  01  4234  LAW  631F  01  0555  PHIL  250  01  3551  soc  419  01  
CE  356  01  0589  ENOL  461C  01  4236  LAW  676A  01  2673  PHIL  257  01  4031  soc  421  01  
CHEM  118L  07  2280  ENOL  465  01  2096  LAW  685  01  0307  PHIL  261  01  2765  soc  424  01  
CHEM  334L  01  0492  ENOL  513B  01  4220  LAW  69S  01  1449  PHIL  261  02  1S33  soc  430  01  
CHEM  334L  02  1556  ENOL  522A  01  4218  LAW  69S  02  1668  PHIL  261  03  239S  STV  250  01  
CLAS  423  01  3725  FIN  360  OS  32SO  LAW  695  03  14S9  PHIL  261  04  472S  THEO  235  01  
CLAS  442  01  1817  FIN  361  05  0720  LAW  695  04  1675  PHIL  264  01  2181  THEO  235  02  
COTH  211  01  4192  FIN  361  07  3096  LAW  69S  OS  1831  PHIL  265  01  0387  THEO  243  02  
COTH  413  01  1014  FIN  370  03  0840  LAW  695  06  3201  PHYS  210  01  3390  THEO  2SO  01  
COTH  435  01  4196  FIN  470  01  0790  LLRO  533  01  4375  PHYS  222L  04  1S24  THEO  252  01  
COTH  436  01  4197  FIN  473  01  0215  MARK  231  03  0838  PHYS  222L  OS  2730  THEO  254  01  
COTH  440  01  4696  FIN  475  01  2739  MARK  374  01  0533  PHYS  510L  01  4528  THEO  262  01  
CSE  411  01  4471  FIN  476  01  3407  MARK  374  02  0650  PSY  211A  01  2036  THEO  265  01  
ECON  225  04  4205  FIN  478  01  1884  MARK  492  01  3544  PSY  342  01  0947  THEO  267  01  
ECON  421  01  0538  GE  364  01  4148  MARK  495  01  3828  PSY  342L  01  1981  THEO  267  02  
ECON  422  01  4209  GE  564  01  4149  MATH  324  01  3285  PSY  342L  03  3163  THEO  268  01  
ECON  430  01  1383  GOVT  316F  01  4578  MATH  336  02  3148  PSY  375  01  4360  THEO  286  01  
ECON  434  01  3597  GOVT  342T  01  1201  MBA  600  01  0080  PSY  403  01  4362  THEO  290  01  
ECON  450  01  3745  GOVT  342T  03  1194  MBA  606  01  4428  PSY  404  01  4363  THEO  396  01  
ECON  487  01  4779  GOVT  342T  04  0970  MBA  607  01  4671  PSY  405  01  4364  THEO  400  01  
ECON  498  01  1768  GOVT  343T  04  2197  MBA  624  01  0876  PSY  441  01  4365  THTR  135  49  
EDUC  201L  04  8404  GOVT  404  01  0981  MBA  625  01  3406  PSY  452  01  1130  THTR  276  53  
EE  242L  04  1929  GOVT  407  01  1390  MBA  627  01  0290  PSY  456  01  3044  THTR  377  58  
EE  354L  03  4485  GOVT  424  01  3410  MBA  637  01  4431  PSY  585  01  4370  THTR  410  59  
EE  4980  01  4478  GOVT  433  01  4258  ME  498A  01  4444  PSY  594  01  4371  

9520 9522 9524 9526 9532 9534 9536 9538 9542 0390 1458 2222 4381 4382 2919 4383 3287 1701 4150 2497 2031 3556 3982 0562 4393 3562 4395 3659 3857 3308 4729 4S66 4681 17SS 2106 4401 0066 0783 1118 0786 0214 4403 4404 4405 2148 4406 1519 4746 9749 9753 9758 9759 

---l 
I
Friday, november 20, 1992 The Observer page 19 
1 
Women 
continued from page 24 
we're in the process of analyz­ing it and formulating game plans for each match ... 
The busy schedule should not be a problem for Notre Dame. The Irish compiled an 11-2 match record in tournament play this year, winning three championships and copping second place twice. Three of the live tournaments the team has participated in have been three-match, two-day events. Brown knows those weekends are hard work, but expects her charges to be up to the task. 
"It's not an ideal situation, 
playing three matches in two days," she reported. "But this is the most important weekend of the season, and we must fo­cus on each match as we play it. It will be fatiguing, but we'll have time to recuperate before we play again." 
In last year's tournament, Notre Dame topped Loyola 15­10, 7-15, 15-1, 14-16, 15-10 to earn the MCC crown. At that time, however, the conference did not have an automatic NCAA bid and the team had to settle for a trip to the National Invitational Volleyball Tourna­ment. With that memory in mind, the Irish will be highly motivated to capture their sec­ond straight conference cham­pionship and their second-ever NCAA Tournament bid. 
IF YOU'RE INTO COCAINE. 
WE'VE GOT ALINE FOR YOU. 
~ I 
::;:;:::;c::;;::;;;:H•"""'5'P.'l"'i"ffiitl 
New & Used Cars & Trucks 609 E. Jefferson Blvd P.O. Box 370 Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259,1981 ext. 632 
Toll Free, (800) 837,1981 ext. 632 Elkart Area Call (219) 674,9926 
,, ~ bf \I>

I' 
• 
buy at $100 over dealer invoice 

•less 
college graduate rebate of $500 •possible $3,000 savings 


Wolverines and Buckeyes prepare for battle 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) -The words belonged to Michigan coach Gary Moeller, but they could have been spoken by Bo Schembechler or Woody Hayes. 
"I don't expect a wild game," Moeller said earlier this week. "The key is to say, 'Here's what we do best. What are you going to do about it?"' 
When the sixth-ranked Wolverines take on 17th-ranked Ohio State Saturday in Ohio Stadium, it might be a battle of wills as much as a traditional battle of bragging rights in the Big Ten Conference. 
There is little doubt about what the teams do best. 
Both are built along the lines of tractors: power first, with style and flare a distant second choice. 
Ohio State runs for 196 yards a game, Michigan's defense only allows 89 yards a game. The Wolverines rush for 271 yards a game, the Buckeyes only permit 114. 
"If we don't stop their running game, we won't get the ball back," said Ohio State coach John Cooper. "To do that, we have to gang up on them. We're going to have to gamble some. We've got to keep them guessing some." 
That leads to another problem for the Buckeyes. "They do a great job of forcing you to commit eight or nine 
guys to stop the running game, then they come back and throw the football," Cooper said. 
Where the game plans and strategy ends, the emotion be­gins for both teams. 
Even though Michigan has al­ready locked up the Big Ten ti­tle and a trip to the Rose Bowl, and Ohio State has agreed to play in the Florida Citrus Bowl, there are a thousand reasons for the players and coaches to want to win. 
"This is the biggest game, other than the Rose Bowl, that I think I can coach in," Cooper said this week. 
That statement took on added emphasis when a published report Thursday cited unidentified sources at Ohio State who said Cooper likely will lose his job if the Buckeyes don't beat the Wolverines and win the Citrus Bowl. 
Cooper declined to comment and OSU President Gordon Gee played down the report as speculation. 
Cooper is completing the first year of a new four-year con­tract he signed in July. In his fifth year at Ohio State, he is 0­4 against Michigan, 0-3 in bowl games and 0-5 against Illinois -statistics that rankle the rank and file at Ohio State. 
A victory would put to rest some of the criticism that 

Say you saw us in The Observer 
,--·,

•r.' ~f' f· : rr T7 
Haircuts $6.00 
with Student I.D. 
277,0057 
2 mi. N of campus on U.S. 31 
Cooper -who came into this season 2-12-1 against ranked teams and 4-16-2 against bowl teams -couldn't win a mean­ingful game. 
But it is Ohio State and not Michigan that has beaten a ranked team in 1992. Ohio State ravaged then-No.8 Syra­cuse 35-12 back on Sept. 19. That is also the only victory by either the Buckeyes or Wolverines against a team with a winning record this season. 
Aside from the soap opera that surrounds Cooper, the game has the most importance for the players. 
"To be part of a team that lost five straight to Michigan, that would be unfortunate," said Ohio State quarterback Kirk Herbstreit. "We don't want to leave here not having beaten Michigan. That's something you can't understand if you didn't grow up a Buckeye fan." 
Moeller also grew up in Ohio, and was a captain of the Ohio State team in 1962. More than anyone currently keeping the flame of the rivalry, he might understand how much empha­sis is put on the game by fans and participants. 
Asked if he had to choose be­tween beating Ohio State or playing in the Rose Bowl, he said, "Boy, that's tough. I'd probably want to play in the Rose Bowl. But it's hard to see how you'd do one without the other." 
This year being the exception, of course. 
ABC will televise the game, which kicks off at 12:10 p.m. EST. 
HappyiP Birthday To10! Finall~ Old Enough To Vote! 
Love, Mom,
EFFECTIVE ~ATURDAY, NOVEMBER ~ 1, m~~ 
Dad, Marissa, 
The South Shore Line will serve Michiana Regional Airport. 
8Buster 
4trains on weekdays -8trains on weekends to downtown Chicago. 
Museums, shopping, sporting events, restaurants are all within 
Little Professor Book Center
easy reach aboard NICTD's South Shore Line. Worried about snow? Don't be! Leave your car at home. Transpo 
presems an erening wiJh 
buses serve the Airport every Y2 hour on week days and every hour on weekends. 
Dr. Tom Morris 
For schedules and fares call: 

Join us for an engaging, funny and illuminating
South Shore Line at: 1-800-356-2079 
evening with Dr. TomMorrJs , 
Transpo at: 233-2131 
the University of Notre Dame's reknowned philosophy professor to celebrate the national premiere of his new 
book Making Sense ofII All. We _will offer a 1096 discount on this book during the signing. 
Monday, Novem~r 23 • 7 -9pm 
Little Professor 
NORTHERN INDIANA COMMUTER TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT 
Book Center
MRA lriJMpD 
Ironwood Plaza North • State Road 23 at Ironwood • South Bend • 277-4488 Mon.-Sat.: HHKl-9:!Xl • Suuday: IO:!X._5:!Xl 
I 
l i 
I I 
-
....­

----~------------------------------------------------------­ 
-­ 
page 20  The Observer  friday, November 20, 1992  

From what he has seen in past action, Schafer has been

Men's volleyball seeks revenge Hockey 
impressed with the WMU team 
By KEVIN DOLAN Sports Writer 

A year has gone by, but the image is still burned into Pat Madden's mind. The Irish men's volleyball team had just lost a televised match to rival Michigan State in three straight games, three of many matches that would be dropped to the Spartans. 
The Spartan's MVP, Audley Becker, was being interviewed after the game. When asked if they were surprised to beat a team as good as Notre Dame, Becker smiled and said, "No. They aren't really that good." 
"It was a low blow," Madden, the club president said. "Revenge will certainly be a factor on Sunday." 
The revenge-seeking Irish will take the court Sunday in a tournament with Michigan and Michigan State, at noon and 5 
P.M. , respectively, in the auxil­iary gym at the J.A.C.C. The tourney matches three of the Midwest's top club volleyball teams, and promises to be a good season preview as well as an intense matchup between fierce rivals. 
"It is a rivalry," Brian 
Ceponis, the club vice-presi­dent, said. "We're the top area club teams, so everyone wants a shot at the top... there should be some intense play." 
"We don't like them very much," added outside hitter Leo Casas. "Off the court, it's a friendly rivalry, but on the court, we want to trash them." 
The Michigan team is very similar to the Irish, said Mad­den, in that "they're very young, and they're big hitters. They aren't very quick defen­sively, but neither are we yet." 
Michigan State promises to be tougher opponents. Under sixth-year coach Sante Perelli, the Spartans have built a pro­gram that Madden feels "is the best in the Midwest. There was a day when we used to beat them all the time, but that's not the case anymore." 
The Spartans are led by Becker and Josh Slodtke, a jump server who is the main cog in the Spartan wheel. "He scores about half of their points," said Madden. 
In fact, the Spartan's serves will be the toughest aspect of the MSU attack on Sunday. 
"They serve so well that they force a lot of errors and take 
BATON ROUGE, La. (AP) ­Four players have been sus­pended by Louisiana State Uni­versity for its final game of the season against Tulane, the school said Thursday in citing an unspecified "violation of team rules and use of poor judgment." 
The suspended players were identified as freshman quar­terback Jamie Howard, sophomore noseguard Jason Smothers, junior fullback Byron Allen and non-roster freshman wide receiver Wylin Williams. 
Howard has played in seven games and started the last six 
THE AMERICAN RED CROSS Make a difference: Make a contribution 
for the Tigers at quarterback and Allen has played in all nine games on special teams. Smothers played in only the first two games before sustain­ing a season-ending injury and Williams, a member of the scout squad, has not played this season. 
The Advocate newspaper said the four were questioned and released by city police early Tuesday in connection with a barroom brawl, but the univer­sity quoted coach Curley Hall­man said the four fought no one. 
"This has been a very unfor­teams out of their offense. We have to neutralize that to win on Sunday." 


"It would be nice to beat them early," said Casas. "We couldn't all last season, so here in the preseason would be a good time to make a statement." 
Last weekend in preseason action, the Irish were defeated by Laurentian of Canada in five games. First-game jitters were evident, but the Irish, led by junior P.J. Stettin, fought baek from a 2-0 defieit in the mateh and were in excellent position to win the deciding game. 
Although the consensus was that the Irish had a sub-par performanee, good things were seen. "I thought we played well in games 3 and 4. Plus, we were missing Hyan Martin. Our outside hitters were both rook-
continued from 24 

goal for the first time all season against UIC, and produced a tie on Saturday. 
''I'm uneertain who will start. Carl played well and Greg Louder is a little banged up." He added that a decision would be made by praetiee time on Thursday. 
As for the rest of the Irish, freshman Jamie Ling is tied for the seoring lead in the CCIIA (5 goals, 10 assists). The other major contributors for the Irish are freshman James Morshead (3 goals, 5 assists), junior Matt Osiecki (3, 5) and senior Curtis Janicke (4, 3). 
"There's no room for eomplaeency and his team must work hard," said Schafer. "Laekadaisical effort would not be tolerated." 
as a whole. 
"They're playing very good hoekey and they've beaten some good teams to get off to a good start," said Schafer. "They have more talent than in recent years." 
"Notre Dame has some talented freshmen and some quality upperclassmen, so his team will not look at the weekend as any type of cake walk," said Wilkinson. "I want to get our game back to the ealiber we had a couple of weeks ago." 
As the young Irish cope with the faet that they are winless, Schafer has been able to maintain good spirits on the team. 
"Their morale has been good and high hopes abound for the weekend,"he said. 

ies, so they have a little more rr==========================:::;t,
experience now." The Irish are eonfident going into Sunday's tournament. 
"Obviously, we need to play our best," said Madden, "but we're very capable of beating them both." 
Added Ceponis, "That crack ( by Becker ) fired us up ... we still remember it. We'd like to beat these guys bad." 
LSU suspends four football players 
tunate situation for everyone who is involved," Hallman said. "These young men made a mistake and they used poor judgment. From the informa­tion I have, the intent of their involvement was not to bring harm to anyone. 
"These four men were not in­volved in any fight and were certainly not involved in any si­tuation involving gunfire. Their suspensions are the result of a violation of team rules and the use of poor judgment. 

november 22 (next Sunday) 1:00-6:00pm Hesburgh Library Ruditoriurn *This is required for all Urban Plunge 
participants 
The Office of Minority Stu.udleJ!lt Affarurs andl ilie lilly 
lFowmdlatlon lPJroud!Jly lPJresent 
-ISMS 101: 
How to Recognize and Overcome Stereotypes 

A workshop with froswav Booker, Asst. Director University Outreach at Texas 
November 21, 1992 2:00-4:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
-------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 20, 1992 The Observer page 21 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
Men's swimm,ing to face tough Ball State squad in final fall dual meet 
were won in the last relay. "It is a good meet all the way through," stated Welsh. 
Out of the nine individual events this afternoon, Ball State holds the season's fastest times in five, and they lead in both re­lays. 
Men's diving will be one of the highlights of the afternoon. Notre Dame has only one male diver, junior Sean Hyer. Ac­cording to Irish diving coach Adam Hirschfeld, "Ball State will provide some very stiff competition. They have four divers, we only have one, but Sean thrives on competition." 
The leading diver for the Cardinals is junior Dave Keener. He is the Mid -America Conference diver of the year, and he holds two MAC titles in one meter diving, as well as a title in the three meter diving competition. Keener won both the one and the three meter diving in last year's meet with Hyer taking two second places. 
"Keener is an excellent diver," stated Hirschfeld. "He has continuously scored near or above the 300 mark which is qualifying for NCAA's. Hope­fully, his level of diving will ele­vate Sean's to a higher level as well." 
In the swimming events, Welsh looks to Ball State senior Todd Griner to provide excep­tional competition for the Irish. 
"He is a very versatile swim­mer, competing in both the fly and the freestyle events. He could show up anywhere, in any of those events or on either of the relays," said Welsh. 
For Notre Dame, senior Greg Cornick continues to be an im­portant factor. 
"He will probably swim the freestyle events, but it is hard to say at this point, stated Welsh. We'll have to see how the meet unfolds." Cornick holds the university record in the 100 free. 
Senior co-captains Tom Whowell and John Godfrey will also lead the team with their performances in the backstroke events today. Both expect a difficult meet. 
"This is a big rivalry every year, and I want to go out with a win. But Ball State always comes in ready to swim us, and we expect a lot of competition," commented Godfrey. "We've trained hard, so hopefully it will show in the pool." 
"We're excited for the meet," said Whowell. "We'd really like to show them what the Irish can do." 
The Irish hope for a large turnout tomorrow to rival Ball State's, which has been big in the past years. 
"We're definitely looking for­ward to putting on a good show for the Irish crowd, and we'd like to have as much support as possible," said Whowell. 
The meet will begin at Rolfs at 4:00 this afternoon. 
Gretzky may be back in March 

By ALLISON MCCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's swimming team will face the Ball State Cardinals tomorrow in their last dual meet of the fall semester. The Cardinals will provide Notre Dame with some of their toughest competition 
this season, but the Irish still have high hopes for a victory this afternoon. 
"We're expecting great per­formances," said Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "In the first three meets of the season, we have been progressively faster with each one. That's what we're looking for. Somewhere along the line, though, is a giant step. We wouldn't mind if it happens against Ball State. The training and preparation of the last couple of weeks has been wonderful, so maybe it will" 
Judging by last year's meet with Ball State, the meet today will be a close one. Ball State's narrow victory last year, with a score of 128-115, gave the Cardinals a 2-1 lead in the series against Notre Dame. 
According to Welsh, "Several meets of the series have gone to the last relay. That means that all events are key events. There is no event that we can win just by stepping on the blocks." 
In last year's meet, each of the thirteen points that gave Ball State the winning margin 
Mock GMAT Exam 
Sponsored by the Management Club Monday, November 23 
6:30 p.m. -10:30 p.m. At the C.S.C. 
FREE! 

Results will be distributed after Thanksgiving If interested, RSVP Frank x2059 
timetable, he should be able to start skating again in mid­february. Then, assuming that his development continues normally, he should be back in the NHL in March, wearing custom-made protective equipment. 
"That is based all on the as­sumption that I stay the way I am," Gretzky said. "Four weeks from now when I get into a healthier condition, I could get the pain back and then there's no choice, they'll have to operate." 
Recently, Gretzky has been receiving a steroid-based medi­cation, which is injected into the inflamed area in his right upper back and chest. 
That treatment has taken away most of the swelling and inflammation, which was blocking the nerve and causing the pain. 
"I have a little pain ... " he said. "But the doctors figure that's from the muscles and nerves being bruised from the inflammation. The treatment has been extremely positive. We've put any idea of surgery ... 
on hold. 
· "Everything in the rehab was pointed to being pain free and I'm there now." 
As long as Gretzky, the NHL's all-time leading scorer, remains pain-free, the next step is continuing and expanding the rehabilitation program, ad­vancing from stretching to lift­ing light weights, to doing more sit-ups to improve his trunk strength. 
Gretzky still experiences some pain and has to avoid sudden movement. If he looks down quickly, for instance, he re­ceives a sharp reminder that he still has a back problem. 
"I still get pain when I move, but it's diminished," he said. "I've got more mobility now. I get the pain in the front. There's no pain in the back at all. 
"My wife says I have game-day blues and the day after a game I get a little edgy. But I'm happy I feel that way. It means I still want to play." 

No Need To Look Guiltv, Earth Pig, You're Legal! Happy Birthday, Kristen Johanns! 
Love, ~Ann and Kahuna 
·; ... _-;_ 
-~ 
-

Thull!>.. Nov I 9rk rkRu SuN. Nov. 22Nd 
K~lll"'NORTH VILLAGB MALL 
S1op, SI"IP 1!. BNOIW. 1kau AN AlwAy of UNiQUE Gih ldu...... 
US 33 at Darden Rd. 272-8080 
TORONTO (AP) -The Los Angeles Kings could have their 
1 !.ling-maker -Wayne Gretzky 
· -back by March. That is, if the pain in his herniated disc doesn't increase and he does not need surgery. 
Gretzky has been encouraged by recent progress in his re­habilitation program. 
"The past week has been a big step forward," Gretzky said Wednesday. "There's a light at the end of the tunnel. Two weeks ago, it wasn't there." 
After nearly eight weeks of inactivity, Gretzky is in rehab 2 1/2 hours a day, exercising, stretching and riding a station­ary bike for 15 to 20 minutes. 
The inflammation in the disc is subsiding, the pain is deteri­orating and his mobility is re­turning, so much so that he envisions himself back in the Kings' lineup in four months. 
According to the tentative 
.....__ 


page 22 The Observer Friday, November 20, 1992 
Women's swimming hopes Riddick Bowe welcomed 'home' 
OXON HILL, Md. (AP) -World a good fashion and a good his name is Geo."
to continue streak tonight 
heavyweight boxing champion manner, and I want to thank A large, round-faced man 
team will be looking to getting a glimpse of the unde­knock one of those fellers out," he is constructing in nearby "Ball State's sprinters are sophomore Jenni Dahl to repeat 
feated titlist. Bowe joked to some good-na­Fort Washington and praisedvery good, but they are weak in her wins in the 1000 yard and They weren't disappointed as tured hecklers who were talk­the boxing champion for the the distance events," said the 500 yard freestyle; and to 
Bowe, 32-0 in his professional ing trash at him. ''I'm gonna example he sets for young
senior co-captian Susan senior Tanya Williams, who 
career, arrived almost like pick the biggest one, and I think people.
Bohdan. won the 100 yard and 200 yard 
Santa Claus would, riding atop ....--------------------------,
butterfly last year. Backstroker 
a Prince George's County, Md.
"Very good" is an accurate Cara Garvey said,"We will win 
fire truck. 

description of Ball State's the backstroke events easy." As 
"Go, Bowe, Go, Bowe," carne
sprinters. Last year the for the meet, Garvey said,"We Cardinals swept the sprinting are too strong stroke-wise for the chants. The champ pumped 
The Observer 
events, placing first, second, them to beat us." his fist in rhythm to the crowd's and third in the 50 yard and cheering and then, to greater 
is now accepting applications 
100 yard freestyle. With only two weeks until applause, held aloft the National Catholics, Notre bejeweled title belt he earned 
for the following paid position:
"It would be great if we could Dame's first semester by defeating Evander Holyfield score in the sprint events this championship meet, the Irish in Las Vegas on Nov. 13. year. It would be a boost to have begun to rest, and 
"I love Fort Washington and 
winning the meet," said Notre hopefully aren't as tired as they 
Business Copy Editor
Prince George's County," said
Dame head coach Tim Welsh. have been at past meets. 
Bowe, who grew up in one of
Notre Dame's young sprinters 
New York City's toughest
will be up against Ball State The meet against Ball State 
Please submit a personal statement and resume to
neighborhoods. "I just want you
upperclassman Sheri Krueger, tonight is their last dual meet of 
David Kimzey . Contact David at 23g-5303 for more
who won the sprint events last the semester, and the times will all to know that if I can become year. be fast. the heavyweight champion of 
information. 
the world, you guys can become 
Irish freshmen Rachel "We will continue to swim anything you want if you work Thurston, Kelly Walsh, and faster at each meet." Welsh hard at it and really want it. '-------------------------___.~ Jesslyn Peterson will race their said. Hopefully fast enough to "I will always represent you fastest competion so far this win. 
year. 
MI~HAfl OOUGlA~ 

NOTRE DAME OLYMPIC SPORTS A brutal murder.
"It will be a good challenge 
for our sprinters. Hopefully 
CATCH 'EM A brilliant killer. 
they will pull through under the pressure," Bohdan said. 
A cop u•ho ra11 't 

Diving is another area where 
resist the darl{{er. 

FRIDAY
Ball State is strong. Cardinal diver Dawn Ford took first 
Irish Ice Hockey ,
place in both the one-and three-meter events against the 
vs Western Michigan ~·~ ~ Irish last year, and has yet to be 

JACC Ice Rink 7:00PM* _.: I. defeated this season. y . 
.BASIC~~~l ~~l 

Notre Dame will look to the ,~ 
~ 
talents of junior Angela Gugle Women's Basketball Irish Swimming 
and freshman Liane Gallagher 
vs Czechoslavakia vs Ball State 
to challenge Ford. JACC Arena 7:30 PM .~. Rolfs Aquatic Center 



Notre Dame Communication & Theatre 
Luckily for the Irish, there are 
Free Admission ~ 4:00 PM -Men
more than sprint and diving 
'** 4\ Xfr.2.~1r 
events lined up for tonight. In 1 " · £r:) 7:00 PM -Women 
C:IDEffiR RT THE SDITE
~~;~ Free Admission FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:15 ' 9:45 
MARIGOLD MARKET 

a Christmas Evening
~~fjmvJe 
Tuesday, December 1 
/)c;c.. b#} llcuH -1AA 
~-· 

Washington Hall 8: 10 pm
tV~ 
Students $7 Non-Students $10 
$P&~ 
1-JO\N 0Pe.NSU~YS 'flL-Q..lfr-1 ST~S l lAM-4Piol\ 
Tickets available at the LaFortune Information Desk, 239-8128 
~ ~Pe!.~<: I.E'III!.I.ANP 
2i2.·t9Z.2. 
Sponsored by: SUB, VIVA, & The Student Activities Office. 
By HALEY SCOTT Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's swim team will take on Ball State Universtiy tonight at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at 7pm. 
Last year when the two teams met the Irish dominated, winning nine individual events, and the meet. This year both teams are stronger, but the Irish are confident they will extend their winning streak. 
the sixteen event program, the majority of the individual events are in the distance and stroke catagories. 
"We are a lot stronger in the stroke (backstroke, breastroke, and butterfly) and distance events," Bohdan said. "If we do well in those events, it will make up for any points we'll lose in the sprints." 
Welsh and the rest of the Riddick Bowe received a hero's welcome home to his adopted community Thursday in an hour-long outdoor ceremony where neither a drizzle nor chilly temperatures could dampen the celebration. 
More than 200 persons, many of them schoolchildren, turned up at a shopping center in this suburb southeast of the capital despite the light rain and tem­peratures in the 40s in hopes of 
you all very, very much for giving me a wonderful new home." 
Bowe may have said little, but he smiled a lot during the 60­minute ceremony, which fea­tures marching bands, beaming politicians, and several gospel solos. With him were his wife Judy and their three children. 
He also demonstrated that he knew plenty of the people there. ''I'm gonna go over there and 
sheepishly stepped forward, putting his hands up, boxer­style, in a manner that sug­gested pride, not confidence, was motivating him. 
''I'm taking Geo," a woman shouted. 
"You just bet on the wrong man," Bowe boasted. "And you better be quiet, fat boy." 
County Executive Parris Glen­denning presented Bowe with a county flag to fly over the home 



Today ·-· 
Friday, November 20, 1992 
Brouoht to you by DOMINO'S page 23 
SPELUNKER 
s T A R T R E K VI 
THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY Beam aboard for the ultimate adventure as the Enterprise crew battles the Klingons and Spok falls in love in the final chapter of the Star Trek saga. Now showing on Friday and Saturday at a 8 pm and 10:30 pm in Cushing Auditorium. _DII 
JAY HOSLER 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
I-IELLO? ... NO, M~ 1-AC>\-.1 
SU~. l'O ~E GLAD 
Cf\~T C<Jt-.\E TO 1W~ 1'1-\Cl~E 
TO Tf.-KE A. MESSf\G£. 
R\G\-\1 ~<JW. 
I 
-~IL
' 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Williams team 48 Ferber's "­30 Small songbirds Trunk"
1 Famed spy 
31 "-ita vision 52 Terh.~ne's "­
5 Pairs ...":Keats Dog10 Awkward try 53 Moving along 
34 Concern of Sec. 

14 A Desert Shield like the 
J. Farley

supporter Jabberwock's 35 Cookie pan slayer
15 Bert's "Sesame Street" pal 36 Kind of strike 55 Dismounted applauded by
16 London subway 56 Beau monde 
mine owners 

57 Cupid's wings 37 Dick Deadeye, 17 Carroll's 
feathered sa Temple menace e.g. 59 Allonge 19 Actress Raines 60 Atl. crossers
38Conn 

39Tops Korean 40"-aSmall 
20 Javanese or 
DOWN

21 Mirrored Hotel" 23 Grafter's item 42 Lewis Lawes 1 Nickname of a 24 Happy people 
was one 1989 All-Star 44 North Star Met
25 Head of some schools 46 Glut 2 Long Asian river 3 Nobelist in 28 Inferior: Slang 47 Vestigial vendor 
Physics: 1944 4 Gives a shot to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 He has chits out 6 Kind of sprawl 7 Blue dye 
a R. Howard, e.g. 9 Dregs 8~~ 10 Purloins 
~:.g.~ 11 The Jabberwock "came whiffling through" this 
12 More qualified -..,;~~ 13 Wampum ~,:+.,;,~ 18 Freshwater 
mussel 22 Architect-van der Rohe ~~=+=-~ 24 Diaphanous L.:.:.J.::..:..L.:..L.:...L.;.J 25 Col.'s command 
BILL WATIERSON 


THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

penalized for late deliveries. 
SMC 289~00.)3 © 1992 Domino1s Pizza, lnc. 
.,, . 
" 

MENU 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Broccoli-Cheese Rice Casserole Veal Parmesan Grinder Baked Pollack Jardiniere  Spaghetti Cheese Enchilada Bake Tarragon Chicken  
LECTURES  
Friday  

3:30 p.m. Lecture: Electronic Publishing: Is Academic Publishing What It Used To Be? "AMS's Roadmap to Elec­tronic. Communication and Publishing: Strategic Issues," David Rogers, American Mathematical Society. Room 129, DeBartolo Hall. Sponsored by Office of University Computing. 
Saturday · 
2-4 p.m. Workshop: "ISMS 101: How to Recognize and Overcome Stereotypes," Froswa Booker. Ballroom, LaFortune Student Center. Sponsored by Office of Minority Student Affairs and Lilly Grant Foundation. 
CAMPUS Friday 
7:15 & 9:45 p.m. Film: "Basic Instinct." Annenberg
Auditorium. 8 & 10:30 p.m. Film: "Star Trek VI." Cushing Auditorium. 
·­

j 
I 
I I 
j 
1 
-
!=-+-+--+­
26 Baseball Hall of Farner Rixey 27 "He-his joy": Carroll 28 Canadian Indians 30 Cries on roller coasters 32 "Judith" composer 

38 Loren's evening 39 Singer Franklin 
and namesakes 41 Hook-shaped 42Weather 
forecast 43"-atthe .pane ...": Browning 
44Ricedish 45 City in Fla. 46 Fry lightly 48 Glissaded 49 Hopper mediL m so Midge 51 "Rock of-" 54Fath-, 
former Shah 
33 Observed 

Get answers to any three clues 
35 Part-time 

by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
newspaper correspondent 

5656 (75¢ each minute). 



.~-----~-----------­
._... 
Sports 
page 24 
Friday, November 20, 1992 
JENNY 

Hockey hopes to win first this weekend 
MARTEN 

By DOMINIC AMOROSA they rebounded by knocking Brooks has also been Sports Writer off Bowling Green Saturday impressive for the Broncos. night. Notre Dame lost to He's tied for the team lead in
On Top of Sports 

The Notre Dame hockey Illinois-Chicago on Friday, but points with Ferschweiler at 10 team (0-7-1 in the Central picked up its first point of the apiece. Collegiate Athletic Association season in a 4-4 overtime tic "Ferschweiler is a proven
Notre Dame hockey and 0-8-1 overall) resumes on Saturday. leader and one of the premier the quest for its first win in a "I am pleased that his team scorers in the league," said
headed for future ·weekend home-and-home was able to come back from a Schafer. series with Western Michigan three goal deficit and tic WMU coach Bill Wilkinson University (4-1-1 in the CCHA Saturday's game," said Irish has rotated two goaltenders
success 
and 5-2-1 overall). Friday's coach Ric Schafer. "Our goal on a game by game basis. 
game will be played at the this weekend is to win two Junior Craig Brown plays on Nobody said it would be easy. Joyce Fieldhouse, while hockey games somehow, Fridays and sophomore Brian If you looked at the Irish hockey Saturday's game will take someway." Renfrew plays on Saturdays. 
team's record, you might come to the place in Kalamaz.oo, Western Michigan senior Both are among the CCHA's 
conclusion that even the Mighty Ducks Michigan. captain Pat Ferschweiler top net-minders. could beat the Notre Dame hockey Western Michigan, ranked leads the team in scoring, who Notre Dame senior goalie team. lOth in the nation, is the has scored 5 goals and Carl Picconato saw action in 
How wrong you would be. fourth top-1 0 team the Irish handed out 5 assists. 
Despite the dismal 0-8-1 record, the have faced this season. WMU Freshman left wing Chris see HOCKEY/ page 22 hockey team is doing fine. The Irish have played opponents tough all season long. Not to mention that five of the 
Volleyball seeks MCC crown
Irish's nine losses have been against teams ranked nationally in the top-1 0. 
Lake Superior State, who is the 
Women are big
defending national champion and currently ranked fourth in the nation, came into the JACC Fieldhouse on October 30 for the first of two games 
favorites in tourney
and had to come from behind in the 
By DAN PIER

final minutes of the game to beat the 
Sports Writer 
Irish 6-5. 

Sometimes it's difficult for a team to get motivated to playThe Notre Dame team also faced top­in an event it should be able to win easily. 
ranked Michigan in the season opener 
Notre Dame is the heavy favorite in the Midwest
and 10th-ranked Miami of Ohio in a Collegiate Conference Volleyball Tournament, but headtwo-game series two weeks ago. 
coach Debbie Brown doesn't believe for a minute, that she will have trouble getting her team focused.
You might think things could not get 
"All of the top four teams definitely have good
any worse for the Notre Dame hockey 
programs," Brown said. "We have to play well; we can'tteam. 
just show up and expect to win. All the teams will be fired up because·there is an NCAA (Tournament) berth at stake."
You would be wrong again. 
In fact, Notre Dame (27-6, 7-0) is the only team who has
So far the Irish team has shown a chance to earn an NCAA bid without winning the
nothing but promise. After joining the conference showdown, slated for today and tomorrow atCentral Collegiate Hockey Association, Duquesne's A.J. Palumbo Center in Pittsburgh. After losing 
one of the top conferences in the 
a match to Louisville earlier in the week, though, an at­nation, this year, things are already large bid is no longer a certainty if the Irish stumble thislooking up for the Irish. 
weekend. That gives Notre Dame all the more reason to be The Irish have a strong freshman mentally ready for the tournament. class which will only continue to "If anything positive can come out of a loss," Brown ex­improve. Eight of the freshmen have plained, "''d say that it forced us to refocus and realize that already made contributions on the ice we have to play well in every match. We'll use our practice this year. time to work on fundamentals and build our confidence for Jamie Ling leads the team in points the weekend." with 15, and Jeremy Coe has scored Notre Dame has every right to be confident after earning four goals this year from the the top seed by marching through the conference season defenseman spot, just six shy of the undefeated. Third-seeded Butler was the only team to take CCHA record for goals by a so much as a single game from the Irish, whose conference defenseman. game record was a gaudy 21-1. Notre Dame will begin its quest to repeat as MCC cham­pions at 6:00 p.m. tonight, when it faces eighth-seeded
In addition, the new conference has Evansville (7-22, 1-6). The Irish defeated the Lady Aceshelped to generate more interest in the easily in a home match earlier this season. A win would
hockey program. The students and 
place the Irish in a second-round matchup with Daytonother members of the Notre Dame and (24-8, 4-3) or Xavier (22-11, 3-4). the fourth and fifth
South Bend community who have 
seeds, respectively. That match will take place at 11 :00packed the stands all season have been a.m. tomorrow.
treated to some exciting hockey games The championship match is set for 6:00 p.m., also on Sat­
chock full of checking and other 
urday. Should the Irish get that far, second-seeded Loyola
physical contact as well as skilled 
of Illinois (21-12, 6-1) or third-seeded Butler (18-13, 4-3) puck-handling and skating. 
would be the likely opponent. Brown is more concerned with what her team is doing than with which team is
I hope that the team's record will not 
across the net, but the Irish will be prepared for whomever keep the students from frequenting the they face. 
Irish hockey games. The games are the "We try to do something different for every team," the 
The Observer/ T.J. Harris

perfect start to a weekend evening and 
coach said. We have recent videotape on each team, and Junior Molly Stark, shown here bumping the ball, will have to be one of
they end early enough so that those in 
the key contributors if the Irish are to win the MCC Championship. 
attendance can still go out afterward. see WOMEN/ page 20 
-
The hockey games are fun to watch 
not only because the games are 
Belles' swimming to open season tonight
exciting, but also because they provide a glimpse at what will be an exciting By KELLY FALCSIK had. He feels it takes eight weeks of Cooper also feels that six to ten school future for the Notre Dame hockey Sports Writer training to get the women in shape, and records could drop this year. program. due to October break, they have not been "This year team represents a great 
The Saint Mary's swim team will begin in the water practicing for eight straight spectrum of women from everywhere." their 1992 season at the Little States weeks. Other schools do not have an The diving team is made up of only five Invitational this weekend at Indiana October break, and that gives them more women, who are newly trained. Cooper
INSIDE SPORTS 

University Purdue University at Indi­time for training, compared to the feels that it is still up in the air, as to how anapolis. women on Saint Mary's swim team. they will be fare this year. 
• Mlrer finalists for QB award 
Coach Dennis Cooper currently in his This years captains, Jenny Danahy and Cooper would like to thank the admin­
see page 17 

sixth season as Saint Mary's swim coach, Ellen Kramer support the team, with istrative staff, Dr. Nester, and the athletic expects a winning season. "Their should their strong leadership qualities and staff at Saint Mary's for their hard work be a few close meets depending on the team spirit. This year, they are leading a and dedication. Without them, coaching health of the swimmers and that (their team with seven returning members, as the Belles as a part-time coach would be 
• Men's volleyball to face foes 
see page 20 health) will affect the outcomes of the well as, fourteen freshmen. impossible. meets". "This year's freshmen have a good "We have a lot of potential this year,"
• Women's swimming in action 
Coach Cooper feels frustrated with the athletic background. They have a strong said team member Tara Krull. "If we see page 22 
amount of training that the women have base for the fundamentals of swim­pull together and work as a team it will ming,"stated Cooper. be a successful season." 











