
---~---------------~ 
1542·1992 SESQUICENTENNIAL 

NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
VOL. XXIV NO. 78 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
HPC defeats dorm Court will money resolution rule on strict 
By BECKY BARNES benefit the dorms, the group abortion law News Writer should not accept hall funds for this use or for food. WASHINGTON (AP) -The 
Hall Presidents' Council (HPC) Pritchard's resolution was Supreme Court set the stage ratified a new charter and defeated by a vote of 31 to 1. Tuesday for an important elec­passed a resolution concerning Several amendments to the tion-year ruling on abortion but members' expenditures Tues­charter were proposed before left open the question of day, while defeating a resolu­the group formally ratified it. whether it will broadly recon­tion that would prohibit the ac­One amendment proposed that sider its 1973 abortion-legaliz­ceptance of food paid for by no meeting, special session, or ing decision. dorm money at HPC meetings. subcommittee meeting of HPC The court, increasingly hos­
The defeat of the resolution should be closed to public ob­tile to abortion rights in recent concerning the council's spend­servance. Pritchard supported years, said it will review a re­ing of dorm money for personal this amendment saying, strictive Pennsylvania law that use came after members unan­"Whenever anything of a con­has been substantially upheld imously supported a resolution troversial nature comes up, we by a federal appeals court. reaffirming hall presidents' re­shut our doors, letting people Activists on both sides of the sponsibility to inform residents think we have something to abortion debate said they ex­of their dorms about expendi­hide." pect the court to use the Penn­tures. In addition, the passed Other council members dis­sylvania case to undermine, if resolution called upon members agreed, stating that the point of not overturn, its landmark Roe to "acquire approval of expen­a closed executive session is to vs. Wade ruling. They said the ditures through their appropri­ensure that complete and ac­decision likely will make abor­ate budgetary processes." curate records of the meeting tions far more difficult to obtain 
The resolution, passed by are taken, therefore eliminating even if states are not allowed to 
unanimous consent. cited mem­the chance for misinforming the outlaw virtually all abortions. bers' "responsibility to disclose public. "Roe is dying before our eyes, to our dorms financial matters." "The point of an executive and all I can say is good rid­The resolution was submitted session is not to prevent the dance," said Randall Terry of 
by Walsh Hall Co-Presidents public from knowing, but to the anti-abortion group Opera­Marianne Ravry and Catherine enable them to know exactly tion Rescue. Danahy, and Keenan Hall what happenned," said one "The days of safe legal abor­President Jason Coyle. council member. tion are now numbered," pre­
The defeated resolution con­The amendment to Article 1, dicted Kate Michelman of the cerned HPC's spending dorm section 2 of the charter was de­National Abortion Rights Action funds for "personal use," feated by a vote of 25 to 1. League. 
specifically for food. In submit­Pritchard also proposed an The Pennsylvania case will be ting the resolution, St. Edward's amendment stating that at no argued in April with a decision Hall President Robert Pritchard time should members of HPC be expected by July -in time to argued that since HPC's use of prohibited or discouraged from make abortion a key issue in dorm funds for members' discussing matters dealing with this year's presidential, con-personal enjoyment does not see HPC I page 6 see COURT I page 6 
U.N. instructs Libya to turn over two alleged terrorists 
UNITED NATIONS (AP) -The and the matter should be behind traditional principles of The United States and Britain carefully how Libya responds," Security Council on Tuesday submitted to international arbi­international law," said U.S. -sponsors of the resolution Pickering said. "If further action unanimously adopted an anti­tration. Ambassador Thomas Pickering. with France, which seeks four should be necessary, and we terrorism resolution calling on It was believed to be the first "We now hope that Libya will Libyans in another airline hope it will not be, we are Libya to hand over two men time the Security Council has respond effectively and do so bombing -have said that if convinced the council is ready charged with blowing up Pan taken sides in a legal dispute rapidly." Libya defies the resolution, they on a continuing basis to face up Am Flight 103. among member states. Libya indicated it would not will consider imposing sanc­to its full responsibilities." 
The vote, which could be fol­Although the resolution did not turn the suspects over, but did tions within two weeks. The resolution condemns the lowed by sanctions against use the word "extradition," that not explicitly say so. These could include denying 1988 bombing of Flight 103 Libya's airline if it is ignored, was clearly its intent. Security Council resolutions landing rights to the Libyan air­over Lockerbie, Scotland, which came after Libya told the 15-"The resolution makes clear are considered legally binding. line and prohibiting sales of killed 270 people, and the 1989 nation Security Council the Bri­that neither Libya nor any other However, the resolution passed aircraft and parts to the airline, bombing of a French airliner tish and U.S. indictments state can seek to hide support Tuesday contains no enforce­diplomats said. over West Africa in which 170 against the men were baseless for international terrorism ment measures. "The council will be watching people died. 
Racial issues discussed by student panel 
By MARA DIVIS The question of why black blacks as minorities on campus. News Writer students sit together in the The Administration is talking Dining Halls started the discus­about recruiting and enrolling 
A lack of multiculturalism at sion of racism at Notre Dame, a more women for the 1992-93 Notre Dame has led to the lack predominantly white school. school year, said senior Andre of racial interaction at the Uni­Panelists said that students, Barrett. However, he said that versity, students said at a panel regardless of color or ethnic the administration is always discussion on campus racism background, generally feel best talking about recruiting more Tuesday in Grace Hall. when sitting with students with blacks, but hasn't taken any ac­
Students voiced opinions con­whom they feel most comfort­tion. cerning race relations at the able. "Blacks have been on this discussion, which was spon­"Historically, people tend to campus long before women," he sored by the National Associa­segregate themselves," said se­said. tion for the Advancement of nior panelist Manuel Espino. Other panelists cited the Colored People (NAACP). "What's important is that in the problem of the administration's 
Panel members said that an classroom people share and inability to deal with the mem­article in the August 1991 issue exchange ideas. When they go bers of minority groups who of Essence magazine titled to the dining hall, they like to enroll. "Campus Racism 101," by Nikki relax and be comfortable." he "In terms of the numbers of Giovanni, inspired the organiza­said. people who are recruited," said tion to hold the discussion. The Students cited the issue of senior Nicole Farmer, "once article included tips for black blacks being extremely under­they (the administration) do get students at predominantly represented at Notre Dame as a the blacks, Native Americans, white institutions and provided reason for their grouping. Hispanics and women here, the questions from white students "After being the only black in school hasn't adjusted to their concerning black students on class, they want to be with needs. They need to focus on campus. These questions others," a student said. what is needed." served as the basis for the The issues turned to multicul­Students then spoke of group's discussion. turalism as students in the au­
dience talked about issues of see PANEL I page 5 





~-age_2 
1NSIDE COLUMN 
Americans need change of attitude 

In Monty Python's The Search for the Holy Grail Roger The Schrubber declares "Ah, what desperate times are these when passers-by can say 'ni' to old ladies at will." Roger was upset with the economy of his time. I 
wonder what he would say today. 

John Rock 
Asst. Photo Editor 
_____.:.....:...::..;___ 
The economy isn't in the best shape it's ever been. Although interest rates are down and the stock market has make a good showing lately, we have an enormous trade deficit with Japan and can hardly compete in our own auto market. 
I was greatly entertained by Lee Iacocca this past month when he asked if the United States was to be blamed for Pearl Harbor because we weren't ready. Ole' Lee is a fiery coot and he has a few good points, but only a few. 
American cars used to be the best. Ford revolutionized the industry and South Bend was home of the Studebaker. When the Japanese entered the market their goods were considered inferior. Japan went back home, took American technology and made it better. Almost every TV in America is from Japan, every little piece of electronic junk comes out of this small island nation. 
American cars have been catching up lately. My family has a couple and they've been really good to us. American cars are comparable to Japanese ones. If better workmanship is the claim to Japanese su­periority that is bunk also because many Japanese cars are made in the U.S. The work is done here and the profit goes there. 
Iacocca also accuses the Japanese of unfair trade practices. There is no stopping the trade imbalance. The United States is a huge market, while the Japanese market is not as big. The key to fixing the trade imbalance is to import fewer cars by increasing the demand for American cars by making them better and selling them at reasonable prices. American attitudes have to change so current import owners can see what the advantages to American cars are. The question remains "what are the advantages to buying American?" 
I have witnessed the apathy of the Ameri­can worker over the past couple summers. This apathy may be exactly why we are losing competitiveness in our own auto market. 
One day the union representative told me to slow down so as not to make the union guys look bad. "T'aint no hurry boy. Them parts is still gunna be here tommorah." 
"Damn, now I've got it," I wanted to say, "if we work half as hard and demand twice as much and turn out crummy parts we can be lousy workers and try to ruin the company." 
It's attitude as much as anything else. I think the workers are starting to take more pride in their work, as proud Americans. If the cars get better, prices stay reasonable, and the public sees that quality is job one instead of lip service, Ford, GM, and Chrysler will regain their lost share of their market. 
The views are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Today's Staff 
Production  News  
Kristin Lynch  Paul Pearson  
Lisa Bourdon  Ann-Marie Hartmann  
Sports  Graphics  
Rich Szabo  Brendan Regan  
Accent  VIewpoint  
Paige Smoron  Rich Riley  
Patrick Moran  
Systems  Illustrations  
Pat Barth  Jake Frost  
Mike Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Pressure 
A
b~,~l ~ m txxxj
H L tZl 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW Via Associated Press 


TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD 
Imelda Marcos running for president 
•MANILA, Philippines -Imelda Marcos today filed papers to run for president, promising to heal the "suffering of the Filipino people" who drove her into exile with her late husband six years go. "This is a decision of the heart," the 62-year-old widow of former President Ferdinand Marcos told reporters after filing her certificate of candidacy with the Commission on Elections. "For years the poor have cried with me," said Marcos, known for her extravagant lifestyle and 1,200 pairs of shoes. She faces charges that while her husband was in power the couple stole billions from the treasury. Marcos returned from exile in the United States on Nov. 4. She became the first major candidate to register for the May 11 election. Her rival, President Corazon Aquino, has ruled out a second term. "I know that the suffering of the Filpino people can be healed," said Marcos. "As I have always said, when the people speak, Imelda follows." 


NATIONAL 
Qua~le: BK sign shows recession relief 
•NO CO, Calif.-Reporters in tow, Vice President Dan Quayle made a surprise stop at a Burger King last week, pointed to a "Now Hiring" sign and declared, "Things are beginning to turn around in California." But restaurant manager Terie Roeder is the first to tell her many job­seekers that they won't earn a living with part-time work at minimum wage. "Can you live on $4.25 an hour? Obviously, no," the 33-year-old manager said Monday. "It's a joke to think that you can." California's unemployment rate is 7.7 percent-fllth-highest in the nation -with defense, aerospace and agriculture hit hard by layoffs. During his California visit, Quayle noted that the recession is lingering longer in the state than in much of the rest of the nation. He said President Bush's Jan. 28 State of the Union address will focus on the economy and offer new programs. 


OF INTEREST 
•A 
Summer Job Fair sponsored by Career and Placement Services will be today in the JACC Monogram Room from 1-5 p.m. It is an opportunity to meet with company representatives to discuss internships or other available summer positions. Students should bring copies of their resumes. 

•community 
of Caring is looking for volunteers to tutor junior high students with special needs. A manda-


MARKET UPDATE 

o a ~ ~ 
ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Today becoming mostly cloudy with sleet or snow likely in the afternoon. The high will be 43 with lows dipping to 
32. 
TEMPERATURES: 
City  H  L  
Athens  52  41  
Atlanta  51  32  
Barcelona  46  34  
Boston  21  17  
Cairo  64  52  
Chicago  33  23  
Denver  49  15  
Fairbanks  06  ·17  
Great Falls  48  29  
Honolulu  80  62  
Houston  58  37  
Indianapolis  33  20  
London  39  34  
Los Angeles  73  49  
Miami Beach  64  58  
New Orleans  54  27  
New York  29  23  
Paris  32  30  
Philadelphia  36  22  
Rome  52  41  
San Diego  68  49  
San F ranclsco  54  42  
South Bend  43  32  
Tokyo  48  36  
Washington, D.C.  42  24  


Con~re~ation acce~ts youth apology 


INDIANA 

Auti~tjc residents sue Indiana 
•BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Hoping to beat an Indiana Supreme Court ruling that would close the group home they share with three others, Jeff Seet and Leslie Ruble have filed a discrimination lawsuit against their Bloomington neighbors. The young autistic adults live in the Christole group home. "The Indiana Supreme Court has said: A man's home is his castle. Developmentally disabled people have a right to have a castle, too," said the residents' attorney, Kenneth Falk of Legal Services Organization of Indiana Inc. He believes the case is the first of its kind in Indiana invoking a 1988 amendment to the Federal Fair Housing Act. The amendment prohibits housing discrimination against the disabled. Parents of the Bloomington-based plaintiffs said they were reluctant to sue because the Christole defense has cost almost $30,000. But they feared if they didn't sue, they would lose the structured environment that has led to successful job opportunities and lifestyles for their children. 
tory informational meeting for anyone interested will be held in the Center for Social Concerns tonight at 7 p.m. Contact Jill Miller at 283-4910 with questions. 
•A mandatory Informational meeting for those in­terested in running for Student Body President/Vice President will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Student 
Government Office (2nd Floor LaFortune). Call Travis at 283-2032 if you have any questions. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1905: It was Bloody Sunday in Russia, as peasants' peaceful marches in St. Petersburg ended in a massacre of over 500 as the czar Niche-Nicholas II ordered his troops to fire on the unarmed protestors. 

• 
In 1934: Paris police arrested nearly 750 people as Communists and Royalists battled. 

• 
In 1963: Twelve Iranian students sat in at Washington's Iranian Embassy to protest the Shah's rule. 

• 
In 1968: U.S. B-52's with four H-bombs crashed in a bay in Greenland. 

• 
In 1978: The South African government detained 23 journalists after attendance at an anti-government meeting. 



Wednesday, January 22, 1992 
Seniors will cast votes in alumni board election 
By ELIZABETH COSTELLO 
News Writer 
This year, Notre Dame seniors can vote for the National Alumni Board and receive ALUMNI magazine, both firsts for students. 
Because the alumni football ticket lottery includes seniors for the season immediately after their graduation, mem­bers of the Alumni Board rea­soned seniors should be in­cluded in selecting their repre­sentatives, said Chuck Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association. 
"The Alumni Board was dis­cussing alternatives to involve seniors at the information level," Lennon said. "The Board decided seniors should receive ALUMNI and vote for the Board of Directors." Seniors' votes will carry equal weight with votes from alumni around the country. 
The board is composed of 22 members who serve for three years. Eighteen represent the different geographic regions, four are elected at-large and three graduated within the last five years. The president of the Association serves an additional year on the Board. 
The At-Large director, who represents mobile young alumni, is the most important board member to most seniors. 
Seniors received a copy of ALUMNI in September and again following the holiday break. The newsletter, sent to all graduates three times a year, provides a preview of the information and services the Alumni Association provides. 
The Alumni Board provides backing for a number of cam­pus functions, helps alumni network involvement in com­munity service, and sponsors continuing education, among other activities. 
Seniors should bring their completed ballots to the Alumni Office, 201 Main Building. Vot­ers' names are not included in the ballot and anonymity is as­sured. 
A choice of Sugar Bowl mo­mentos will be given to gradu­ating students who return their ballots. 
I C~c:::l._. c:~ I C~ ...... ~~ 11=1=2C~c:yc: I~ 





M.B.A ·J.D. ·M.D.-. PH.D:
. . . 
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS, You WON'T GET THE LETTERS. 
m•
!DUCAliONAL GROUP 
TEST PREPAATION GRADUATE SCHOOL SELECTION & COUNSELING LSAT • GMAT • GRE • MCAT 
SOUTH BEND • 273-1866 WE'LL MAKE SURE YOU MAKE IT. 
The Observer page3 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey

Recyclin' Irish 
{left to right) Maureen Brown and Patti Chern, junior engineers from Knott Hall, discuss Recyclin' Irish plans for next semester at the Information Night sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns Monday. 

By MICHAEL SCHOLL News Writer 
Notre Dame's 1992 election season will get under way at 7 
p.m. tomorrow evening when Student Government holds an informational meeting for all students interested in running for Student Body President and Vice President. 
At tomorrow's meeting, to he held in Student Government's LaFortune Hall office, potential candidates will be instructed in the procedures governing the election process, according to Elections Commissioner Travis Reindl. 
Nominating petition forms will also be distributed at the meeting, Reindl said.Each joint presidential/vice presidential ticket must submit petitions containing at least 150 undergraduate signatures in order to be on the ballot for the election, which will held on Monday, February 10. If no ticket receives a majority of the vote, a runoff election between the top two vote-getting tickets will take on Wednesday, February 12. 
DuF===========================================,uD 
~ F 

Applications are now being accepted for the position of 
Editor-in-Chief 1992-93 
Anyone interested in applying should submit a resume and a personal statement not exceeding five pages to Kelley Tuthill by 5 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1992. 
Further information is available from Kelley Tuthill at The Observer, 239-7471. 
~ 
D~ =============================================================~= 
uD 
All underclassmen in good academic standing are eligible to run in the election. 
The two members of the vic­torious ticket will be faced with a "tough, but rewarding" job, according to current student body vice president Dave Florenzo. He feels the central responsibilities of the president and vice president are to "represent the views of under­graduates to the administration and to play a leadership role in university life." 

As part of those responsibili­ties, the president and vice president must serve on a num­ber of university advisory committees concerning areas such as campus life and minor­ity affairs. The two leaders also chair the Student Senate, the student-elected body that de­bates campus issues and makes recommendations to the uni­versity administration. 
A special committee of the Student Senate is responsible for the distribution of the $400,000 raised annually through the collection of stu­dent activity fees. Florenzo said he and student body presi­dent Joseph Blanco had to spend a great deal of time last April working with the commit­tee in order to fairly evaluate 
NEED TO DOCTOR YOUR 
MCATSCORE? 
IfyourMCAT score needs a shot inthe arm, come to the expertsin test prepaiillion-­Stanley H. Kaplan. 
Our test-takingtechniques andeducational review will help youbein top condition lest <Ia¥ We11 notonlysharpen yourscientific knowledge. but yourreading. problem-solving. andessay-writingskills too. 
So call the best in test prep-Kaplan. And get an 
MCAT scorethatyoudese:rw. 

I KAPLAN 
DONTCOMPETEWITH A KAPlAN STUDENT-BEONE 

1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
the requests for funds made by 
student groups. 
Florenzo believes that "a 
solid platform that all students 
can really feel a part of," will 
be a requirement for any ticket 
with serious hopes of winning 
the election. This year's candi­
dates will have the opportunity 
to present their platforms at a 
presidential debate, which is 
expected to take place during 
the week before the election. 
The candidates will also be 
able to use campaign advertis­
ing in order to get their plat­
form messages across to the 
the student body. 
Each ticket competing for president and vice president will be allowed to spend spend no more than $150 on advertis­ing, according to Reindl. 
All campaign advertising must meet "basic ethical guide­lines" set by Student Government, Reindl said. Such guidelines require that cam­paign posters be "neither li­belous nor slanderous" and that they be no larger than 11" by 17". 
Any complaints of campaign misconduct will be addressed by a five member elections committee, Reindl said. A ticket found guilty of "minor violation" could have its cam­paign spending limit reduced. A "major violation" could cause the offending ticket to removed from the ballot. 
Student Government will also soon be holding elections for class offices and for the Student Senate. Balloting for class offices will take place on Monday, February 24, with possible runoff elections to be held on Wednesday, February 
26. The voting for Student Senate will take place on Monday, March 2, with runoff elections slated for March 4. 
Informational meetings con­cerning these races will be held within the next few weeks. 


kinko·s· 
the copy center 


page4 
Gesture of thwarted by aut 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Now then, architect Alan took the shortcut from 
subway station to his office, paying much attention to homeless people he 
IJl'llmpsea under a labyrinth of lhillhvvav overpasses. 
ut one summer morning, a barked as he carne by, and stopped. The dog's , Curly Brown and .-.~ ••~~~.•. Canady, emerged from 
cardboard home and, over next few weeks, a friend~ of sorts began. 
y never asked for a me," Johnson said, but he ought of something they 
use: A tepee. thought he was a Iu~ Brown recalled. Canady 
suspicious, too; ~aybe he 
"some crazy" who would set them on fire once they went to sleep in the tepee. Johnson 
untered, "OK, I'll make it 
th his two associates at ey Friends Associates, 1..v ......v .. spent three weekends ng the galvanized•steel It's 6 feet high, 8 feet in ldil:tmElter and has pink insula­under a blue tarpaulin. tent is big enough for two ep in comfortably. Cost: 
Israel sends more troops to its occupied territories 
JERUSALEM (AP) -The army said Tuesday it is increas­ing its forces in the occupied West Bank by 20 percent, de­ploying more regular soldiers and special units to try to halt a wave of ambushes on Jewish settlers. 
The move follows demands by settlers for more protection and tougher treatment of Arab militants. It also comes amid a political crisis in which Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's coalition has lost its parliamen­tary majority because of defec­tions by far-right leaders who are the settlers' main backers. 
Late Tuesday, the opposition Labor Party submitted a no­confidence motion in the Parliament in a bid to topple Shamir's government. A vote is not expected until next week. 
Chaim Ramon, Labor Party whip in the Parliament, told Army radio he hoped the move would "bring an end to this terrible government." 
The troops are going to an increasingly tense area strained by the 4-year-old Palestinian uprising and an increase in armed attacks on Jewish set­tlers by Arabs opposed to the Middle East peace talks. 
The army would not disclose the exact number of soldiers being sent to the West Bank 01 the number already deployed there. 
Four Jews have been slain since October, and settlers have responded with reprisal raids on Arab homes and threats of other violence. 
Palestinians view the settle­ments as a threat to their goal of creating a separate state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which Israel captured in the 196 7 Middle East war. Shamir's government says it will never give up control of the territories and has greatly increased the construction of settlements over the past two years. 
The U.S. government has criticized the settlements as an impediment to peace and has held up consideration of Israel's request for $10 billion in loan guarantees needed to help pay for absorbing Soviet Jewish immigrants. 
The decision to send more troops to the West Bank came after gunmen opened fire on an Israeli bus carrying Jewish set­tlers Jan. 14, wounding seven people. 
An army official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the deployment was "a direct result of the rise in shootings," adding that the soldiers would protect the residents there. 

YOU GOllA LOVE IT: 
YOU'RE 21! 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, & MEGAN 
The Observer Wednesday, January 22, 1992 
Bush wants more Head Start funds 

WASHINGTON (AP) President Bush sought to put the spotlight today on an old campaign promise he has ful­filled in part: bigger budgets for Head Start to prepare poor children for school. 
But Democrats in Congress already are looking to double Bush's newest proposal for a $500 million increase for the popular preschool program that started in Lyndon Johnson's war on poverty. 
Bush was flying by helicopter this morning to Catonsville, Md., outside Baltimore to visit a Head Start center and an­nounce what the White House billed as "the largest increase ever" for Head Start. 
Bush was visiting with chil­dren and parents at the Emily Harris Head Start Center, which enrolls 68 children in four separate half-day classes. 
During the 1988 campaign Bush pledged to expand Head Start so that all eligible 4-year­olds were enrolled. At the time the government was spending $1.2 billion on the program and reaching only about one-fifth of the poor children. 
Dr. Louis Sullivan, secretary of Health and Human Services, said today on CBS' "This Morning" program, "We will have more than 300,000 addi­tional children in the Head Start program who were not being served before. That's the important thing, the difference this will make in their lives and in their future as leaders in our country." 
Today, even before Bush's election-year request for a 23 percent funding increase, the Head Start budget has nearly doubled to $2.2 billion. Some 622,000 children are enrolled, which the White House says is 60 percent of those eligible. 
But Sarah Greene, executive director of the National Head Start Association in Alexandria, Va.. says there are actually 2 million low-income 3-and 4­year-olds eligible for Head Start services, and only 28 percent of them are being served. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass., the chairman of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee, and other Democrats are pressing 
for a $1 billion increase in Head 
Start's budget for fiscal 1993, 
and they want to boost it by $5 
billion-plus over five years. 
In addition to instruction aimed at spurring their devel­opment and preparing them for school, Head Start children re­ceive healthy meals, medical screening and other services. 
The program also emphasizes parental involvement and edu­cation. More than half the staff at Emily Harris and seven other centers around Baltimore County are former Head Start parents. 
"Most of our children are from AFDC families," said Annabyrd Jones, the program's supervisor of social services and parent involvement. Ten percent of the children are classified as handicapped. 
The county has more appli­cants than it can handle. 1\velve children are on a waiting list at Emily Harris and 20 at another center. 
"It's a very good time for a (budget) increase," said Jones. "We have so many parents that are unemployed now." 
In his three previous budgets, Bush asked Congress for Head Start increases of $250 million for fiscal 1990, $500 million for 1991 and $100 million for 1992. Congress trumped him in 1992 with a $250 million in­crease. 

% 

12 Month Certificate of Deposit 
Interest Paid at Maturity • $2,000 Minimum Deposit 
6.25% 
12 month IRA Certificate of Deposit Interest paid at maturity • $500 minimum deposit 
6.00% 
IRA Savings • Interest paid monthly • $100 minimum deposit 
Annual interest rates listed above are subject to change without notice. Substantial penalty for early withdrawal. Call today to see how you may qualify for credit union membership. 
0 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
(219) 239-6611 
Independent from the University of Notre Dame 
NCUA 
NIIT!OIICIICreCIUUIIIOIIAdJDUIUUa!IQQ 
oUSGG•tl'llllltaJA.gencf 



Wednesday, January 22, 1992 The Observer page 5 
Conference will discuss aid to former Soviet republics 


WASHINGTON (AP} -The participants topping each other during a picture-taking session nations assisting "reformers including contributions to re­stage was set Tuesday for an with donations. with Portuguese Minister of and democrats" in the former settle 370,000 Soviet troops emotional debate involving the The administration would be Foreign Affairs Joao de Deus Soviet Union. now in East Germany. United States, Europe and oil­delighted if the invited guests, Pinheiro, said there may be rich Arab kingdoms on how to particularly the Arab oil states, food shortages in some areas of But some of the Europeans, The more liberal approach is speed food and medicine to de­volunteered sizable contribu­the 11 former Soviet republics particularly Germany, would to increase U.S. and Western feated Cold War enemies in the tions, but coordinating aid -and not in others. "There's been like the Bush administration to aid and to rush it to the former shattered Soviet Union. not boosting it -is the primary a certain amount of hoarding adopt a more expansive role, Soviet Union without insisting 
goal. going on," he said. one that is attuned especially to on firm free-market commit­
"It's important that we send Baker's meeting with Pin­a threat of anarchy or fascism if ments. One group of interna­them a message of hope," said The administration also wants heiro, who represented the Eu­food and medical supplies fall tional economists argues that Secretary of State James Baker, to avoid having the modest U.S. ropean Community, foreshad­short. about $30 billion a year for who will join President Bush in program, totaling $4.1 billion, ows a drive by the Bush admin­Germany's role could be piv­several year is required. opening the two-day foreign become a target if the 4 7 istration to reach a common otal. It has pledged $2.5 billion Some polls show little support minister-level conference participating nations conclude understanding with friends in to Russia alone. According to among the electorate for a more Wednesday at the State the wintertime food situation is Europe and elsewhere on the some estimates, Germany has charitable approach. A Gallup Department. so dire relief must be level of aid -and the reasons offered $35 billion, or an esti­poll last month found 35 
Baker has stressed the aid pyramided above existing for providing it. mated 80 percent, of the relief percent of Americans feel the summit would not be turned levels. Baker stressed it was a case to go to the former republics, United States is already giving into a pledging contest, with the Baker, talking to reporters of democracies and free-market though the figure is bloated by the ex-Soviets too much. 
'Teflon Don' John Gotti faces trial-once again 
NEW YORK (AP} -John Gotti dant during the hearing in the left his jail cell Tuesday and packed courtroom. faced the potential jurors who The trial is Gotti's fourth since will decide if the reputed mob 1986. As a result of his three boss spends the rest of his life acquittals, he has been dubbed in prison or walks out of court a the "Teflon Don." free man for a fourth time. Jury selection is expected to 
Resplendent in a double­take weeks because Glasser has breasted navy suit, Gotti stood ruled that the names of the briefly and smiled broadly as he jurors will remain secret and was introduced by U.S. District the panel will be sequestered at Judge I. Leo Glasser to the pool a hotel throughout the trial, of several hundred possible which may last three months. jurors summoned to Brooklyn's "It's not uncommon in federal federal court. cases," Glasser told the jurors. 
"It is important to insure that 

Gotti, jailed without bail since the jury will in no way be his arrest in December 1990, is influenced by the public, by the accused of ordering the assas­members of the media and their sination of former Gambino articles and reports." crime-family boss Paul Glasser's order for an Castellano to seize control of anonymous and sequestered the nation's most powerful jury came in response to gov­criminal syndicate. ernment allegations of 
Sitting ramrod straight at the widespread jury tampering in defense table, Gotti stared other Mafia trials, but he did ahead at the judge and joked not mention that in his address
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey 
with his lawyers and co-defen-to the jurors.
Strong bodies fight. .. 
(left to right) Grace Hall freshman Chris Rosen tries to knock Senior Tony Abbate from his standing 
age and the stereotypes of mi­

position. These boxers are getting into shape for the Bengal Bouts tournament beginning February 23. 
nority groups of today is to be­
Panel 
come educated. Junior Billy Allen said that
continued from page 1 

material from authors of dif­courses in African-American ferent perspectives should be a
:****************************¢ 
studies. At Notre Dame, history mandatory part of Notre majors may not count courses Dame's curriculum. ~ * in Mrican-American studies as "We should read something of electives toward their major, a different background," he
t THE 1992 KEENAN ~ 
Barrett said. said. Barrett, a history major, said Barrett agreed, saying that that when he wanted to apply the white frame of mind is not
t RHYTHM AND BLUES a
an African-American studies representative of the world as a course toward his major, he whole. was denied on the grounds that "From a white frame of ref­
~ REVUE * 
it would not "make him a more erence, you just don't consider well-rounded person." things from a black perspec­t~ * ~ "No one's required to take tive," he said.
7:00pm Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 
African-American, gender stud­One student echoed this, say­ies, or other courses," he said. ing that many Notre Dame stu­
~ January 30, 31, and February 1 * 
He said that the only way to dents haven't been exposed to fight the negative media cover-other cultures, and that they~ * can continue this experience at Notre Dame and then through­
t TICKFTS AVAILABLE ~ 
out life. "That's the problem." said Farmer. "You can get away

t * 
with four years of ignorance

~ SAINT MARY'S (SMC Students only) ~ 
here."iC Thursday, January 23 @Haggar l. 
Students and panelists stressed that students can get
iC starting at 4:00 pm * involved by taking a stand and by voicing their opinions. Fighting the system is a way to let the administration and or­
•t NOTRE DAME (ND Students only) ** 
ganizations know what the stu­iC Friday, January 24 * dents need, Farmer said. iC @ JACC Gate 10 ticket window ~ iC starting at 3:30 pm * 

Need A Spring Break? 
iC * ""-~ Treat YourseIf,.,...1. o A
t ~
No Lines Before Noon 
Barefoot Bahamas t ~ Spring Break

TWO TICKETS PER I.D. 
*
iC ONE I.D. PER PERSON The Ultimate Sailing Experience ~ ~ * ICall l..SQQ..J59..9808 Today I \.,.__~
****************************** 
page 6 The Observer Wednesday, January 22, 1992 
Status of legal. abo 
Based on positrons of eaeh st;3te's~6;J~:.ff6fJ~~~~~~ .....,~ ...-.....,,.... 
and whether the state currently has rPC:Tr..~TJr\nQ 
• Most inclined to repeal legal abortions 
Court 
continued from page 1 
gressional and state elections. 
The court was asked in com­peting appeals from Pennsylva­nia officials and abortion clinic operators to say point blank whether Roe vs. Wade remains the law of the land. 
The court's brief order Tues­day was ambiguous. The jus­tices said they will study the Pennsylvania law's provisions but did not say flatly they will examine the 1973 ruling. 
As the justices acted, dozens of anti-abortion protesters tried to block access to two downtown Washington abortion clinics while abortion rights 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
council business outside of council meetings. 
After prolonged discussion, Pritchard tabled the amend­ment and decided to propose it next week as an addition to the by-laws of the charter. 
Pritchard also read a letter written by himself and David Jacobson, St. Edward's vice president. Pritchard said the letter needed to be read be­cause Jacobson was unable to attend the meeting and the pair wanted to explain issues sur­activists escorted women to their appointments inside. Hundreds of the demonstrators were arrested. 
A massive demonstration is expected outside the Supreme Court building Wednesday ­the 19th anniversary of the court's Roe vs. Wade ruling that said women have a consti­tutional right to abortion. 
The justices in 1989 allowed states to make it more difficult for women to obtain abortions, but stopped short of reversing the 1973 ruling. 
In the Pennsylvania case, the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Ap­peals said recent high court rulings eroded the sweeping le­gal protection Roe vs. Wade gave to women seeking abor­tions. 
rounding their recent letter and retraction in The Observer. 
While Pritchard admitted that he and Jacobson acted irre­sponsibly by not checking their sources when making accusa­tions against HPC, he claimed that they told no lies and had no malicious intent. "I jumped to conclusions," he said, "I was not responsible." 
One council member re­sponded that by writing the let­ter accusing some members of HPC of wrongdoings and ineffi­ciencies, Pritchard and Jacob­son had created an "unfair aura of suspicion" directed to­wards all members. 
Pritchard stated, "You can't 
The appeals court said states now may require doctors to tell women seeking abortions about fetal development and alterna­tives to abortion, and then re­quire those women to wait 24 hours before ending their preg­nancies. 
Also upheld was a state regu­lation requiring doctors to keep detailed records, subject to public disclosure, of each abortion performed. 
Abortion clinic operators ap­pealed the 3rd Circuit court ruling. 
The appeals court struck down one aspect of the Penn­sylvania law that required women in most cases to notify their husbands before obtaining abortions. That part of the ruling was appealed by state officials. 
mandate effectiveness. Maybe now that it is a more public is­sue. [dorm residents] will put more pressure on their presi­dents." 
In other business, the council agreed to extend the running of Weekend Wheels for another weekend while taking statistics of its use to individual hall council meetings. The council will vote next meeting on whether to continue the service throughout the semester. 
Peru police sweep schools, arrest students; no one hurt 
LIMA, Peru (AP) -Police and soldiers swept through seven university campuses Tuesday, detaining students and confis­cating propaganda from the Shining Path guerrilla move­ment. Despite the armor and submachine guns, no one was hurt. 
A military communique said the campuses were being used as recruiting bases for the Mao­inspired Shining Path. 
Nearly 25,000 Peruvians have been killed in political violence since the guerrilla movement took up arms in 1980. 
Under a long tradition, uni­versities in most of Latin Amer­ica have autonomy, meaning police cannot enter them. But last year President Alberto Fu­jimori pushed through emer­gency laws that voided univer­sity autonomy. 
Soldiers surrounded two campuses of the San Marcos national university in Lima, and national university campuses in La Cantuta and Callao, just outside the capital, in Huan­cayo. 120 miles east of Lima, and in Huacho, 90 miles north of the capital. 
Neither the military nor the police said how long they would stay. 
Armored personnel carriers and more than 300 national police and soldiers surrounded San Marcos' San Fernando medical school in Lima, check­ing student identification and searching bags at the exits. 
About 50 soldiers toting Bel­gian-made submachine guns occupied the cafeteria, where posters covered the walls de­nouncing "U.S. imperialism" and revisionists who "deny Marxism's universal validity." 
Despite the posters, one 20­year-old medical student in­sisted the Shining Path had lit­tle presence on the campus. 
The student, who would only identify herself as Indira, said of the rebel movement: "It seems to me they might have been advancing from below. But there weren't any demon­strations. Nothing in full view of everybody." 

OBCJAPAN 
'IJC English Conversation School is ffering full-time teaching positions 
beginning in July 1992. Excellent working conditions, benefits, and salary. Open to all majors. Career and Placement Services 
The Department Of Music Presents Christine Rutledge & William Cerny In a faculty o/io{a and Piano ~cita{ Thursday, January 23, 1992, 7:30p.m. Annenberg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art The concert is free and open to the public  
Join Little Profes·•or for -~~~~~~~~~----.·-­NATIOI\JAL I~ 0 0 K WEEK JANUARY 19-25, 1992 America's Annual Celebration of \Vriters, Books, and Reading Bring in this ad during ~ational Book Week to receive 10% OFF* • offer not valid on newspapers, magazines, or with other discounts. ,'e BLITTLE PRoFEssoRR 1():0) OOK CENTE . Wt lu/p you find books you'11/0t:t. Ironwood Plaza North (near the new Martin's) State Road 23, South Bend, IN Mon.· Sat. 10 am· 9 pm, Sun. 10 am-5 pm  

Today thru Friday 9:OOam • 5:OOpm Notre Dame Room (2nd floor> LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
3 LARGE PRINTS FOR $15! 



Wednesday, January 22, 1992 The Observer 
page7 
Japanese politician retracts his anti-U.S. statements 
TOKYO (AP} -A senior last year to $38.5 billion. entist and consultant. "But politician retracted his accusa­The furor in America over the Japan is a big country now. tion that American workers are Japanese officials' comments What Japanese leaders say is lazy and illiterate as Japan has stunned many Japanese, easily translated into other scrambled Tuesday to put out who are unused to seeing languages. They should be the latest brushfires in its in­Japan's chronic trade surplus more cautious." creasingly heated relationship given such a central role in U.S. Still, few Japanese seem to with its U.S. ally. politics as it has been in this dispute negative characteriza­
Seeking to dampen another presidential election year. tions of American work and blaze, a government spokesman Japanese politicians and business habits. Many say backed away from comments by business leaders have made Americans have only Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa disparaging remarks about U.S. themselves to blame for Japan's and the head of Toyota Motor economic practices for years. trade surplus. Corp. that suggested Japan had But the United States, Yoshio Sakurauchi, speaker of not agreed to buy more U.S. preoccupied with the Cold War Japan's House of cars and auto parts. and economically healthier, Representatives, set off a howl 
U.S. officials have said paid less attention. of U.S. criticism Monday when Japanese cars and auto parts "Many Japanese tend to be­he was quoted as saying the account for two-thirds of lieve that Japanese is still a se­reasons for the U.S. trade Japan's trade surplus with the cret language and no foreigners deficit are that "U.S. workers United States, which Japan on can understand," said won't work hard" and a third Tuesday said rose 1.3 percent Seizaburo Sato, a political sci-are illiterate. 
"If America doesn't watch out, it is going to be judged as finished by the world," he told a meeting of constituents, ac­cording to the national news­paper Yomiuri Shimbun. 
Then Miyazawa said in a tele­vision interview that the auto agreement reached during President Bush's visit was only "a target rather than a firm promise." 
In separate comments, Toyota Chairman Eiji Toyoda was even less committal about the agreement to import 20,000 more U.S. cars annually and roughly double U.S. auto parts imports to $19 billion. 
The comments received wide coverage in American news me­dia. 
Bush on Tuesday said he had no concerns that the Japanese were reneging on the commit­ment, but Japanese officials moved quickly to try to control the media damage. 
Koichi Kato, the prime minis­ter's chief spokesman, said Tuesday: "We will not back off on our pledge midway. It is all right to regard statements on sales by Japanese manufactur­ers as promises." 
Sakurauchi, whose position is largely ceremonial, said in a statement released by the Foreign Ministry that "it is very regrettable that (the remarks} were taken as if to disparage or slight American workers." 
He also said his remarks were not reported accurately. 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, January 22, 1992, 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1991-92 General Board 
Editor-In-Chlei Kelley Tuthill Managing Editor Business Manager Lisa Eaton Gilbert Gomez 
News Editor •.•.•••.•.•..••••••••..Monica Yant Advertising Manager ...... Julie Sheridan VIewpoint Editor ....•.•••••••.•...Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ........ Alissa Murphy Sports Editor ••••••••••..... David Dieteman Production Manager ............ Jay Colucci Accent Edltor ....•.••.•..•..•••..John O'Brien Systems Manager ................ Mark Sloan Photo Editor ........... Andrew McCloskey OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ............ Emily Willett Controller ..................... Thomas Thomas 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters, is encouraged. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Cl~EmA fl-T me st'l~te .... 
tf!ll4~ 

ffpC
s~~t.w~­
~a 

OtherJ 
People's~ 
·Moneyl 
Castro regime responsible for Cuba's social problems 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in regards to Jeffrey O'Donnell's letter "What Happened to Traditional Values?" (The Observer, Jan. 17). Mr. O'Donnell had some very interesting, and I suspect prevalent, views on American life. 
The basic premise of the letter was the belief that American society is undergoing monumental moral decay. The letter was an attempt to rival support for a return to the "moral America" of the 1950's. 
In considering Mr. O'Donnell's letter, two questions must be asked: Is America the moral wasteland Mr. O'Donnell claims it to be? Were the 1960's really the downfall of America? 
There is very little factual ba­sis for the claim of moral bankruptcy that Mr. O'Donnell thinks is so obvious. He claims that there is much more sex on television and "teenage preg­nancies and divorces are be­coming alarmingly numerous." 
However, if Mr. O'Donnell had done a bit of research he would find that the immorality alarm is no louder today than it was in the glorious 1950's. The dif­ference is that when a young woman got pregnant back then, her only socially correct option was to get married. I would venture to say that there is a 
The sixties improved American society 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to the views advanced by profes­sor Cutrofello about Castro's Cuba. The images evoked by the professor are misleading for those people who are not famil­iar with the Cuban situation. My family ties to Cuba and my continuous interaction with immigrants from the island have exposed me to the real life scenarios, instead of the Castro­generated propaganda that the world is erroneously led to believe. 
First, despite Castro's sup­posed "desire" to raise the standard of living for the Cuban people and to modernize the country, Cuba has been travelling in a path opposite to that of progress. Not only is the countryside without running water, but major districts in the nation's capital, Havana, lack this simple utility as well. 
In addition, people are rotated from the cities and are forced to live out in the country in order to cultivate farmland, and Cuba's agriculture, mecha­nized prior to 1959, is now be­ing sustained solely by oxen­drawn plows. 
Second, the Cuban people are the victims of Castro's regime, even though he might state that he has consistently fought for them. The hundreds of millions of dollars that Castro spent to host the Pan American Games could have easily been spent to put food in the marketplaces. Castro has even taken away from the Cuban people the sim­ple pleasure of swimming in some of the island's most beau-
DOONESBURY 
W&MAYft4w; 7VRf3·51KXJT, 5/{J. IHAV!3 IAJ(JV~ffUL. 
Nf:IAJ5. 
I 
tiful beaches. 
Lastly, Cuban socialism "as one of the nobler experiments of this century" has produced social conditions degrading to human dignity. Like the leper colonies of ancient times, Castro has AIDS colonies for all the Cuban people who test positive for HIV. Secluded in various places throughout the island, these people are incar­cerated in these communities to die, away from their families and society. 
In order to achieve his stated goal of eliminating homelessness in Cuba, Castro forces 8 -10 people to live in tiny homes. The imposed squalor of these living condi­tions in a sub-tropical climate causes an urban holocaust of filth and disease. 
I have always felt indebted to the Unites States of America, the greatest country in the world, for the way in which she received my Cuban compatriots. Many before me have not known what it is to live in free­dom and today many are still dying in its quest. I pray every­day for the safety of those Cubans who attempt to cross the Straits of Florida on home­made rafts, and that one day they too can live in the freedom I cherish. 
As for the rest of my Cuban brothers and sisters , I hope they each find the strength to hold on for just a little longer, because our Cuba will soon be free. 
Francisco J. Cantero Jr. Morrissey Manor Jan. 20, 1992 
INA 
at4Y. I/l1 
ffAVING 
A BABY1 
\ 

strong link between this and the 
high divorce rates of today. 
Isn't it also a bit ironic that Mr. O'Donnell feels the fall of the Roman Empire, a society where public bath houses and beastiality were common and accepted practices, to be "one of the greatest calamities" in history? 
According to Mr. O'Donnell "the 1960's actually ruined America." Let's consider the major happenings of the 60's. The Women's Movement ­women decided they had more options than being a nurse, teacher, secretary, or house­wife. They became politically active and a strong voice in American society. The Sexual Revolution -women discovered that not only could they have sex, they could even enjoy it (something men should be as happy about as women have been). 
The Civil Rights Movement ­Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. became a driving force in American society while preaching a non-violent mes­sage. The 60's were a time of struggle to achieve equality and greater understanding, a piv­otal time in American history. I have a difficult time seeing the 60's as fostering "public chaos, divisiveness, and violence" as Mr. O'Donnell proposes. 
In the article he stated that the success of the movements "hinged on altering the status quo." I do not understand why he thinks this is a criticism. Perhaps, as a young white male, life in the 1990's is not as privileged as that depicted on Leave it to Beaver which Mr. O'Donnell so longs for and admires. 
However, the 60's improved the lives of millions of people. I am grateful for the opportunities I have been given because of the 1960's. As an ROTC cadet and an Aerospace Engineering major I realize the privileges I enjoy that were never available to my mother. I also find it very disheartening that Mr. O'Donnell considers the civil rights movement to be "unfortunate." 
Fortunately, thanks to the vi­sion of the 60's, Mr. O'Donnell's hopes for our generation will not prevail. Perhaps the status quo would have been advantageous to Mr. O'Donnell, but then I'm sure there was once a cave man who said ,"UGH! Life was so much easier when I could just beat her over the head with my club and drag her by the hair." 
Lisa Valenta 
Siegfried Hall 
Jan.20,1990 

50.' WHO'S l'M 9011/o 
7Hl3WO<Y 5UI<& f?AmBCAR:< IT'SB.V. 
I \ if()%? 

'As students, you must change the hearts and minds of your own country.' 
Maria Julia Hernandez Human Rights Activist in El Salvador 
Stand up and be counted. submit: 
QUOTES, P.O. Box Q. ND, IN 46556 

/·22 

Viewpoint
Wednesday, January 22, 1992 page 9 
Campus election process needs improvements 

Someone who graduates the a war and shook the social con­
of taking on the traditional mate campaigns, you are short­spring before you enter Notre science of America. I personally "watch dog" role the press changing yourselves. Over a Dam~ could be thought of as a was forever changed when usually assumes, student period of time, the most effec­mini-generation older than you. fellow students were killed by management defers to the tive candidates may not get Someone graduating ten years National Guardsmen at Kent current system by refusing to elected, thus major student prior to you is definitely an "old State. It was the spring of my question its flaws. How in the initiatives remain stagnant. alum." Go back to the early freshman year, and I had been world can student voters follow Twenty years ago the burning 1960s, during the last gasp of pro-war as well as immersed in a campaign when editorial issues of co-ed dorms, revised militaristic regimentation of school. For the first time in my boards interview candidates or eliminated parietals, and a student life, and you may con­life, something had more impor­and sanitize their platforms? more comfortable student life sider that the Dark Ages. How­tance than all else. I realized were thoroughly discussed and ever, compare many of those that it could have been me who In my day, a candidate an­researched. The University then policies to student life a la was killed on campus. That was nounced his candidacy (usually made a major commitment to 1990s style, and you will find a chilling thought. in his dorm at a rally) which admit women. Vice President Agnew who re­
that students are still living in Over 4,000 ND students was covered as "news" by the
leased an advance copy of a
those Dark Ages. rallied to protest the war. We media. Then reporters were Next school year, the Univer­
speech in which he called Fr.
declared a strike against the assigned to specific candidates sity takes another significant
Hesburgh one of the most in­
Throughout Notre Dame's his­University. The ND to cover the daily activities, step in its history by changing 
competent college administra­
tory student life remained Administration cooperated with issues, and gaffs. Debates were the admissions gender policy.
tors in the country. It felt as
somewhat constant until the us by allowing us three options scheduled, and students made Will the Class of 1995 live under 
though I was at a pep rally with 
1960s. During the early 60s regarding our remaining course informed choices based on the any revisions of parietals, say to 
everyone booing one minute
students were required to wear work. We could continue to candidates' performances. 1 AM and 3 AM, during their
and then cheering the next
coat and tie to dinner each day. attend class, freeze our grades tenure at Notre Dame? Will 
-"· 

when I demanded Agnew's
Dorm life was strict. Many were at that point in time, or exercise I wonder how many great coeducational housing sit­
apology by saying, "And by
locked out of their dorms if they a pass/fail option which had student leaders have been uations come into existence
damn he better apologize!"
stayed out beyond certain never been previously used at denied an office simply because before the year 2000? Isn't it hours, and if caught, dis­ND. (I personally had one my this current system prohibits about time you asked yourself
Obviously those kinds of
ciplined. They also had to deal highest grade point averages student voters from adequately why students are not living as
issues do not burn in America
with a lights out policy every that semester!) I commend the evaluating the candidates. though they are in the 1990s
today. The closest ND students
evening. The norm regarding Administration for initiating the Wouldn't it be helpful to know instead of under rules con­
got to another organized effort
student life existed for decades. policy because it benefitted how the candidates responded ceived in the 1970s? 
was in the mid 1980s when
The national mood of unrest everyone. under pressure, maintained 
Capt'n Crunch was removed
caused by the Vietnam War fi­Those students who wanted to their poise, or spoke A good quality of life for stu­
from the dining halls. The
nally filtered into Notre Dame. work for social justice could do eloquently? dents comes when change
student uproar not only got the 
By the late 60s clever student so while those who needed fur-I may have lost the Student keeps pace with the times.
cereal back, but the Capt'n
leaders orchestrated protests .ther technical knowledge could Body Presidency to a joke can­Students need to express their
himself visited campus during
that successfully changed sev­continue to attend class. Some didate who dressed with a support for change like the
An Tostal. Solidarity and public
eral absurd rules. travelled to Washington, DC. Burger King crown and had a Polish did with Solidarity. Most
relations efforts can be
Students united behind Others worked with other cam­kitten as his running mate, but I importantly, change can only
extremely effective if done
competent, imaginative leaders puses on national student pro­learned how to run a real cam­come when students elect
properly.

to prove their point by literally jects. Those who remained on paign. My loss was the result of competent, witty, reasonable,
Students need not be con­
wearing only a coat and tie to campus organized masses and student leaders being too bu­and determined student
frontational in affecting change. 
dinner. Many wore the same rallies. reaucratic the prior year and leaders.
Rather, they must be united,
coat and tie at every dinner. By selling out the student body for Knowing your candidates is
reasonable, and organized. In­
year's end, their clothing looked I can still see the ground law school recommendations. almost impossible with the
stead of complaining about how 
like a crusty, dried buffet. outside of the ROTC building archaic restrictions your Senate 
unreasonable some rules are,
with its rows of white crosses During my losing efforts I has placed on the election
do something to express your
My experience at ND occurred bearing the names of dead ND learned how to gage opinion in process. It is time to revise your 
feelings. However, before you
during the latter part of the veterans. It was an eerie sight, light of the campus mood. That election process. 
can climb from the Dark Ages
Vietnam era in the 1970s. The but it drove home a point. was an invaluable learning ex­
into the sunshine, you need
Administration was grateful Brother Domers died in a war perience of which today's can­Unless you demand that the
good student leadership. This is 
that we were not burning that nobody could explain. didates are deprived. Observer and WVFI cover each
where the sham you call elec­
buildings like on other cam­Anyone who attends Notre When I ran for office we candidate daily, you might as
tions bothers me.
puses, so their policies regulat­Dame knows that he or she is passed out pins and buttons, well re-elect the cat that beat ing student life were quite lib­one of the best their generation designed posters, participated me. At least you'll be more in­
I say shame oil spinless
eral. can offer. We knew it back then, in debates, used radio and formed about its qualifications.
student Senators who regulate
My dorm, Lyons, seceded one and we accepted our roles as newspaper advertising, and As the old adage goes, "The
elections like the old Soviet
year from the University national student leaders. We attended rallies on the quad as electorate gets what it de­
Union. Remember the days
because we thought parietals knew we would someday have a well as dorm meetings. That serves."
when the Communist Party had
were ridiculous. Cries for good job, good home, and a total experience was Your progress does not have
only one slate of candidates?
coeducational housing experi­good life. Therefore, those goals instrumental in my ability to to be confrontational if you are
Voters could either vote yes or
ments, better male-female ra­could to be pushed aside mo­gain employment on Capitol as concerned as I was over Kent 
no on two separate ballots.
tios, more social facilities (as mentarily during our quest for Hill. State or as determined as the
When a pe.r:son asked for a
well as activities), and lower truth and justice. mid 1980s students were for
ballot, everyone knew how the
bookstore prices dominated our Current campus candidates their Capt'n Crunch. The first 
vote would be by looking at the
agenda. I pick up an Observer Many of us spoke openly can merely brag that they step lies with a real election 
type of ballot acquired. That
today and read articles that against the war, and posted their platforms on the process. Anything less binds 
system fell in flames. The
could have been written twenty consequently were walls and knocked on doors. you to the Dark Ages. 
current student election process 
years ago. Over the years, photographed by the FBI. I re­Great opportunities are being
at Notre Dame is no better.
although society changed dra­call when I spoke, a man with missed due to the current Gary J. Caruso is a graduate 
-
matically, student concerns very short hair (looking foreign shortsighted election process. of the University of Notre Dame 
Students who manage the
stagnated. among the crowd of long-haired Unless you, the current stu­and now works in Washington, 
campus media are also to
What did my generation ac­college students) flashed away. dents, demand that candidates D.C. for the United States House 
blame for the process. Instead
complish? Nationally we ended I demanded an apology from be permitted to conduct legiti-ofRepresentatives. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
New year's celebration is not enjoyed by millions of abortion victims 
Dear Editor: many abortionists' claim that Death by EEG," JAMA, Oct. 12, is characteristic of active dream 2045. Main. This year, write The weather seems to have its pregnancy is a disease to be 1964.). states, has been recorded at 17 your Congressmen and state own peculiar way of welcoming cured by abortion, the Center •"Babies are often seen suck­weeks." (S. Levi, Brugman representatives. Write letters to students' return to the life of for Disease Control has a nearly ing their thumbs on Realtime University of Brussels, AMA the editor. Join and contribute study. After celebrating with precise count of persons af­ultrasound by 8 weeks." (Dr. News, Feb. 1, 1983). The child financially and otherwise to or­family and friends the fullness fected by the AIDS virus and of and Mrs. J.C. Willke, "Abortion: in the womb is nothing but a ganizations which seek the pro­of life, we usher in a new year persons who have died from it. Questions &Answers, " 1985). human being. tection of all human beings and new opportunities. Let us reflect on our brothers •"By the end of 11 weeks, without regard to race, color, 
But for some 28.5 million per­and sisters who have been so hands and feet are perfectly 28, 500, 000+. One out of ev­ethnicity, gender, creed, or sons, there will be no new year unjustly crucified. Their formed, complete with finger ery three babies. That"s how stage of human development. nor new opportunities. 28, 500, humanity cannot be doubted. prints, and fmgers and toe nails many have been slaughtered le­Finally pray. Pray to our 
000. That is at least the number •"The heart is beating at 18 . " (C . Everett Koop, M . D ., L. gally in this country over the Creator that He will shine the of persons who have been days, the child has his own B . Shettles, M.D., et al, "When past 19 years. As students of Light of His Truth on all those legally killed in their mother 's blood supply, and blood type You Were Formed in Secret," Notre Dame and St. Mary's, how pregnant women and teenagers womb since January 22, 1973, may be different from that of Intercessors for America, 1984). much longer will you acquiesce contemplating abortion and on the day of Roe v. Wade his mother. " (J.M. Tanner, G.R. •"At 9 weeks, if an object is in this genocide? What will it all those who perform this (approximately 1.5 million each Taylor, and the Editors of Time­placed against the baby's palm, take to raise your indignation to murderous act. And pray that year). The number is estimated Life Books, "Growth, " New she will close her fingers the point of taking action? He will have mercy on our because, strangely enough, the York: Life Science Library, around it in a tiny fist." (Valman This is a new year, and you country. abortion industry is not re­1965). & Pearson, "What the Fetus will have many new opportuni­quired to report how many •"Brain waves have been Feels, " Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. ties: Wednesday, Jan. 22 from Notre Dame Law School abortions it performs. recorded as early as 40 days on 26, 1980). 12 to 1, join others at the fed­Right to Life 
Yet, ironically in the face of EEG." (H. Hamlin, "Life or •"Rapid Eye Movement, which eral courthouse located at Jan.19,1992 


Accent 
page 10 Wednesday, January 22, 1992 

Jeanne Blasi From the Playpen 
Membership has its privileges 
T 
ired of smokey old bars? Sick o spending over $10 a night on alcohol? Ready to cavort with the elite, the wise, the elected? And, best of all, do you want FREE FOOD from South Bend's finest restaurants? 
If the answer to all of these questions is 'yes,' then it's time to join Club HPC. Yes, it's that time again, time to become a dorm leader so that when election time rolls around, your dormmates choose YOU as the newest member of Club HPC. 
Interested? Send away now for your election application with a check for $19.95. Yes, you heard correctly. For only $19.95, you too could be a member of this exclusive club, plus, as an added bonus, we'll send you these free books: "Tit for Tat: Why Do It If You Get Nothing Back," "Freeloading," and "My People Love Me and Feed Me." Plus, if you act FAST, we'll send an added bonus book, "Making the Gossip Column in Three Easy Steps," so that, once elected, you can make the Club's infamous gossip column entitled, "We Saw What You Did, Nanny, Nanny Boo-Boo", the journal for the social elite. All this for only $19.95. 
Once elected, you only pay a mere $10 "activities fee" and voila, you automatically become a V.I.P. guest at every Club party. Best of all, after this preliminary fee, everything is free! 
Yes, it's hard to believe. For $19.95 you get the chance to be president for a year, plus three free books to help you get there! 
Club HPC wants YOU! Join Club HPC-for the people's choice! Is this scenario the direction we're pointed in? St. Ed's president Robert Pritchard and vice 
president David Jacobson's letter published in The Observer caused quite a commotion among HPC members as they called several "closed" meetings and imposed a "gag" (me with a spoon) rule that causes one to wonder what they're hiding. If the point of the meeting was to refute Pritchard and Jacobson, discrediting them, why not make it a public meeting? Was it that harsh of a meeting? 
Imagine yourself having to stand all alone before 30 furious sets of eyes boring holes through you and waiting to verbally attack you. 
WOW. That takes guts. Something your average apathetic ND student lacks. 
I commend St. Ed's leaders for their effort cause students to examine and question this representative body and hopefully inspire HPC to reexamine itself and redefme its function as an organization. 
It appears that their misrepresentations were "corrected" and they were asked nicely to write a retraction for these false perceptions. 
Whatever happened to freedom of speech? 
But, the jist of their revelations remains; $3,000 a year (and that is an underestimate) is too much money for any one organization to eat up at social parties. Most campus organizations are treated to dinner once a semester, why can't HPC follow suit? Oh yeah, tradition. 
Are these meetings anything more than a great meal with an electronic bulletin board flashing the upcoming events? And, I must question any organization that uses the back o the meeting's minutes as a gossip column. 
I think HPC needs to foster more debate on campus issues. Since complaints of student apathy abound, HPC should take greater efforts to spark student interest in world and campus events and issues. 
At any rate follow the example of Pritchard and Jacobson-call a club a club and promote changes for the better. 
It just goes to show that the traditional way is not always the best way. Perhaps it's time to bounce a few traditons out of Club HPC. 
Jeanne Blasi is Assistant Production Manager ofThe Observer. Her columns appear every third Wednesday in Accent. 


Two artists' works at SMC take the function out of common objects 
By JEANNE DeVITA Mimlitsch Gray's artistic Some of Gray's works drop Accent Writer manipulation of metal is often graphic stencils over reinforced by books into which photographic images of 
A reception will open the the red-hot metal object is ordinary objects and wash ink contemporary print and metal burned. Several books are over wallpaper. These depict works display by artists Myra included in the Moreau display, objects that a human could find Mimlitsch Gray and Ken Gray, including burned impressions and use in everyday life, such Saturday, Jan. 25 from 7-9 p.m. of sea shells and knives and a as a washing machine. in the Moreau Gallery at Saint 7-foot tall burned paper One of Gray's works on Mary's. drawing. display in the galleries is a 
The conceptual metal pieces Referring to the non­series of black sheets of paper and jewelry works created by functional representations of which read "WORK" in bold artist Myra Mimlitsch Gray typically functional objects, white letters. The black papers have been exhibited in galleries Tourtillotte said Mimlitsch Gray are attached to a clipboard throughout the country. made through her which has the word "WORK" 
According to Bill Tourtillotte, metalsmithing not the object etched into it, from where the visiting assistant art professor, itself, but the essence of the papers were stencilled. Mimlitsch Gray's metalsmithing object. In addition to his abstracts the forms of objects contributions to the Saint that humans recognize, by Presently, Mimlitsch Gray is Mary's art gallery, Gray's prints representing them as non­on the faculty of the art are part of a permanent functional. department at Purdue collection at the Muskegon 
University. Museum of Art in Muskegon, 
The bowling ball serves as an In his artist's statement, Gray Michigan, and at galleries at ironic symbol of marriage in suggests that understanding Ball State University, University Mimlitsch Gray's piece, "Ball ourselves, our world, and our of Pennsylvania, and Alma and Chain," which connects the place in it is formed by the way College. bowling ball to a large diamond we choose to respond to and Gray is currently registrar at wedding ring with a large link make use of the printed image. the Greater Lafayette Museum chain, said Tourtillotte. The printed images that of Art in Lafayette, Ind. 
The realistic representations characterize Gray's The artists' works will be of a lead pillow depressed with understanding of himself and displayed through February 21. the impression of a gun, as well his world and function are Admission is free and all as a metal cloth draped over a represented by a variety of students and faculty are gun, comment on the roles of works ranging from encouraged to attend. For handguns in contemporary photographic images to original information on the Moreau society, Tourtillotte suggested. paper creations. Galleries' hours call 284-4655. 
Correction 

A story appearing in Jan. 17's 'etc.' section misquoted Father Patrick Gaffney. Gaffney said Turkey, Iran and Syria were countries improving their "leverage" in the Middle East. The Observer regrets the error. 


-----------------------------------------------------------~-----------------~ 
--·---------------------------~------~--------------­
The Observer page 11
Wednesday, January 22, 1992 
Heisman-winner Howard set to go pro 

The Observer /Marguerite Schropp Michigan's Desmond Howard, who led the Wolverines over the Irish and captured the Heisman trophy, made himself eligible for the NFL draft, passing up on a final year of eligibility with the Wolverines. 
taken place in my life." 
Howard said he consulted many people before making up his mind. He said he told his parents late last night. 
"I've talked to numerous people, from coach (Bo} Schembechler to my parents to Rocket Ismail to Magic Johnson," he said. 
The Calgary Stampeders hold the Canadian Football League negotiation rights to Howard. They said they would consider making an offer to him should he forgo his 1992 collegiate eli­gibility. 
His prep career was as im­pressive as his collegiate. He was the point guard on the basketball squad that made Ohio state finals in his junior year. 
He earned three letters in football, three in track, and one in basketball. He received All­State and All-American recog­nition in football in 1987. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at the Saint Mary's office, 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds
Classifieds 
must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
If you lost a gray tweed jacket at HOUSE FOR RENT IN '921'93 Critter's wedding, call Twohy at277-5BR, 2 BTH. 1800 SO FT. Mandy! TOP 10 REASONS WHY Wanted -Students for Summer 
NOTICES 4395. washer/dryer, recently remodeled, I just wanted to say I am PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE Internships! Come to the near NO sorry. I know I PERFECT MAN: SUMMER JOB FAIR today to call 232-8256 can't change what happened but I discuss opportunities for summer 
CUSTOMIZED WORD WANTED want you to 10. He sits quietly wherever you put positions. JACC Monogram Room ­PROCESSING TWO FURNISHED HOMES NEAR know how much your friendship him and behaves. 1to5p.m. Reports/resumes/letters. CAMPUS... SECURITY SYSTEM... means to mel 9. He never even LOOKS at other 271-1618. $350.00/0AY PROCESSING WASHER & DRYER... 4 women. TODAY! SUMMER JOB FAIR ­
PHONE ORDERSI PEOPLE CALL BEDROOMS... 1 0 MO. LEASE... 4 Jen 8. You can make him look any way 1 to 5 p.m. JACC MONOGRAM 
YOU. NO EXPERIENCE OR 5 STUDENTS... DEPOSIT you want-and yes-you can even ROOM. ALL MAJORS! 7 DAYS OF COMPLETE AND NECESSARY. 1-800-255-0242. REQUIRED... 259-7801 OR 255-control his size... UTTER MADNESS ON SOUTH 5852 FOR MORE INFO! SPRING BREAK PRICE-BUSTER 7. Ballad Hour Boys PADRE ISLAND FROM $199-VACATIONS! Black-Red-Yellow-White-(Blue CALL JAMES AT 277-9249 SALES OPPORTUNITY-Motivated ROOM TO RENT. USE OF ALL Jamaica, Bahamas including ???) Any color you like! You are both evil. 
for independence and 30% UTILITIES. $225/MO. 232-2794 airfare, great hotel, and much more 6. He listens to all your problems 
commission? The right time is PAUL from only $599. Buy from the #1 and doesn't judge you. Attention NO/SMC USED TEXTBOOKS! NOW (317) 782-8907. name you trust for quality vacations. 5. He doesn't make blond jokes (or LULAC is proud to invite everyone Buy & Sell Books TRTL CRK 2BO TWNHM FOR FOUR SEASONS brunette jokes) to a mixer on Friday night at Pandora's Books RENTII 1-4 PPL. $150/MO, EVN 1-800-331-3136. (or any jokes at all!) Theodore's. Music is by Martin-E­3 blks. from NO TEACHERS NEEDED IF ALONE! DON,T BE A FOOL, 4. He's there whenever you need Mix and it's guaranteed to be the 233-234211 0-5:30 M-Sun The Ronkin Educational Group is THIS IS PRFCT, NO RULESII him. night of your life, so if you don't 
looking for highly qualified CALL MARK AND WELL WORK A GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, 3. He smells good! show up, you'll really regret it. 
instructors for air LSAT, GMAT, OEALI-15701 MONTANA 2. He never calls you a "dumb girl" ALTERATIONS AND GRE, and MCAT prep courses. AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL DRESSMAKING BY MARY. CALL Part time Work/Flexible hours/Good LAFAYETIE SQUARE Have the best summer of your life AND THE NUMBER ONE REASON SALE OF 259-8684. salary. Please call273-1866. has 1-four bed and by joining the team rated tops in WHY PLAY-DOH MAN IS THE GUATEMALAN GOODS 
1-five bed unit avialable for next providing the best of Western PERFECT MAN: JAN. 22, 23, & 24 
year hospitality to Glacier Park visitors! 1. When you have PMS and you WED. THURS. FRI. TYPING AVAILABLE The Ronkin Educational Group is Call NOW, they won't last long 1992 Summer applications now feel like bashing someone's head SORIN ROOM -LA FORTUNE 287-4082. seeking part-time student workers 232-8256 being accepted for the following against the wall, he won't mind if 9-5 
for a unique grad. school prep. positions: Bar, Restaurant, Kitchen you shmush him into smithereens! 
company. Many different postions staffs, Desk Clerks, Salespeople, A Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days MATH TUTOR-All levels. Don't available. Flexible Hours/ Good FOR SALE Store Clerks, Office, Service $2791 Panama City $99, Padre wait 'til it's too late! 271-1532 salary. Please call 273-1866. Station, Housekeeping, and $199, Cancun $499, Jamica $399 
Favorite 8 Football Recipes of a Maintenance Personnel. Interviews MISSING: from Chicago. Call Lance 271-1681 Notre Dame Cook. $3. will be held on campus February 1 0 Matthew Orsagh 6'6", 2001bs. or Lisa 283-4667. 
FAST EASY INCOMEI $40,000/YRI READ BOOKS and M.Sisk, 2741 S. 3rd, Niles, Ml & 11. Write to St. Mary Lodge & Hair: Uncombed Earn 1DO's Weeekly Stuffing TV Scripts. Fill out simple 49120. Resort, P.O. Box 1808, Sun Valley, Eyes: Bloodshot SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, envelopes. Send self-addressed "like/don't like" form. EASY! Fun, 10 83353 for an application. Last seen boarding a plane in SUMMER INTERNSHIPS. stamped envelope to: Extra income! relaxing at home, beach, vacations. CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED Atlanta. PRESENTATION TONIGHT BY 
P.O. Box 811699 Chicago, IL Guaranteed paycheck. FREE 24 89 MERCEDES $200, 86 VW $50, If found please call his mom. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER 60681-1699 Hour Recording 801-379-2925 87 MERCEDES $100,65 Monica Eigelberger is no longer a AND PLACEMENT SERVICES Copyright #IN 11 KEB MUSTANG $50. Choose from ho. But Sara Marion is. 6:30PM 124 HAYES HEALY thousands starting $25. FREE 24 Mario and Jill went up the hill CENTER.
LOST/FOUND t Hour Recording Reveals Details each with a buck and a quarter ....Jill YOU'VE ONLY GOT ONE WEEK 801-379-2929 Copyright# SUMMER JOB FAIR came down with *T•N*D* TO LIVEI 00 IT RIGHT! SPRING 1N11KJC Company representatives on $2.50......and a brunch Troop Notre Dame 
FOUND: gold/brass earring BREAK IN JAMAICA/CANCUN, campus TODAY to discuss summer medium sized, hook goes through FROM $4291 INCLUDES HOTEL, Zenith Portable laptop, bklit, jobs. JACC Monogram Room -1 to PS Fox gets no box and PERFORMING LIVE your earring hole type, hanging kind AIR, TRANSFERS. wlbatt, 2 3.5" drives, EC, 5p.m. Conway makes love to his sheets. at halftime of the 
of tear drop shaped with a thing in SUN SPLASH TOURS 1-800-426-Call Chris x1723 January 23 N.O.-Missouri the middle (hard to describe) Found 7710. Metal Loft Dan 232-0550 basketball game it in front of the library right before Attention! Billy Hunter BUY YOUR TICKETS NOWIII break TICKETS applications for O.S.U are due by ADOPTION CALL 288-9421 if this sounds I need a ride to Alabama the end of month. Happy, loving couple wishes to SUMMER EMPLOYMENT! familiar for Spring Break. Call NEED TIX FOR MICH-NO Nice knowin ya'. raise your white newborn with JOBSI JOBS! JOBS! 
Bob-2455. B-BALL. X3926 warmth and love. Can provide 
Cindy May is having an affair with financial security and education. YMCA Camp Manito-Wish a LOST: Ladies gold watch. Lost MICH-NO B-BALL TICKETS her Franklin planner! II Medical/legal expenses paid. Wisconsin based outdoors camp Mon. morning, 1/20. If found EARN $2000 + FREE SPRING NEEDED. 284-5084. Please answer our prayers by will be having an information PLEASE call Tanya at BREAK TRIPS! North America's #1 ATTENTION Women of Farley Hall: calling Maureen & Jim. Call 1-800-session at Haggar rrn. 303, SMC, x2738. REWARD. Student Tour Operator seeking JOHN COUGAR monday jan 27 Pop Farley Week continues tonight 456-2656. 7:30pm. 
motivated students. organizations. great seats cheap with two splendid activities. First, Interviews will be held Wednesday, 
fraternities and sororities as campus 1167 or 2845404 ditch the dining hall and head to STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA January 22. Question? Call Carrie LOST: HEAVY GOLD CHAIN ON representatives promoting Cancun, Barnaby's for all-u-can-eat pizza Info on semester, year, graduate, Cummins 284-5757 FRIDAY 1/17192 BETWEEN Bahamas Daytona. 1 (800) 724-from 5-7 p.m. Then, work it all off by summer and internship programs in
PERSONAL

ADMIN. BLDG. & ACC. CALL 1555. ice skating at the JACC from 11 :15 Perth, Townsville, Sydney, and To all my "friends at the Big o·: 289-8227 IF FOUND. REWARD. p.m.-12:15 a.m. Melbourne. Programs start at Looks like I will be getting that MRS INDIANA AUTO INSURANCE. $3520. Call1-800-878-3696. degree, with no help from a Domer. 
FOR RENT Good rates. Save Money. Call me This degree will nicely supplement LOST-NJ Drivers Liscence­for a quote 9:30-6:00, my Economics and Finance Very important since I need to drive 289-1993. Office near campus. SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, degrees. Two degrees in four and I won't be returning home until HOUSE FOR RENT. $150/MO. SUMMER INTERNSHIPS. FAX MACS Fax your Mac years-not bad! How many of you after graduation. Please return and WALK TO CAMPUS. CALL PAUL A SUMMER JOB YOU'LL LOVEI PRESENTATION TONIGHT BY documents for $1 page. Free can say that? Yuk. Yuk get a reward $$$. Call Lauren X-287-2159. Coed Massachusetts camp, 3 hrs. PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER campus pick-up of your disk. Call Em 1711. Boston/NY City. Super kids, great AND PLACEMENT SERVICES Michael at237-1864. 
food, friendly atmosphere. 100+ 6:30PM, 124 HAYES HEALY Attention people of Notre Dame: 
6 OR 7 BEDROOM HOME NEAR staff: tennis, lifeguard, WSI, CENTER. Carla Garcia has officially grown Found: a red scarf from NOE CAMPUS.SECURITY arts/crafts, all land/water sports, BUTT-ROOTS in her bed and 4th Day at St. Ed's on Wednes­SYSTEM.FOR FALL 1992.272-fitness, gymnastics, piano/play for ATTENTION: possibly won't make it out for the day, January 15. Please call 6306 shows, drama, judo, dance, archery, To anyone who has said rest of the semesterllllllll Andrea at x2928. photography, computers, rocketry. SUMMER INTERNSHIPS, "Ballroom dancing -I've always 
guitar, radio, video, yearbook, SUMMER INTERNSHIPS. wanted to do that!" Now's your HEY............................... 4-8 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR newspaper, wilderness, woodwork, PRESENTATION TONIGHT BY chancel Classes begin Thursday SECURITY officer #146: 
LOST 8 in. men's gold rope RENT FOR 92-93. HURRY, NOT RN, morel PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER Jan 23 at Stepan Center from 8:00-GET A LIFE and QUIT GIVING ME bracelet at Senior Bar MANY LEFT. SECURITY 6/20-8/22. Call/write CAMP AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 9:30 pm. We'll learn the tango and TICKETSIIIIIIII Fondly, Thur. Night SYSTEMS, KEGERATORS. EMERSON, 5 Brassie Rd., 6:30PM 124 HAYES HEALY 3 other new dances. No partner or the owner of a Subarull 
call Chris Burke x4057 287-4989. Eastchester, NY 10707. CENTER. experience is needed. Give it a try ­800/955-CAMP. you know you want to. Hi Monica Yant 

----~------------------­
page 12 
SPORTS BRIEFS 
•Late 
Night Olympics teams are being organized at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Interested persons should contact their hall LNO representative for information on the latest night of the year-Late Night Olympics. Friday, Jan. 31. 

•Attention 
all Salling Club members and officers. This will be a mandatory meeting on Tuesday, January 21 at 6:30 p.m. in room 204 0' Shaughnessy. There will be information about elections and Comodore's Ball. Please attend. If you cannot attend call Moira at 284-534 or Adrienne at 284-5085. 

•The 
Cricket Club will have a mandatory meeting on Thursday. Jan. 23 in 105 O'Shaughnessy at 7 p.m. All persons interested must attend. Call Marko (3587) or Tim {1473) for details. 

•Hapkldo/Tae 
Kwon Do starts Monday, Jan. 20. Practice every Monday and Wednesday, 6:30 p.m.-7:45 p.m. Room 301 Rockne Memorial. Beginners welcome. Any questions, call Sean (3457). 

•The 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes will kick off the semester with Wallyball! Meet at 5:00 p.m. tonight at the JACC racquetball courts. All are welcome. 

•The 
Notre Dame Ski Team will hold an informational meeting regarding the spring break trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. All people interested should attend the meeting at 7:30 


p.m. 
in room 118 Nieuwland Hall on Wednesday January 22. Any questions, call Bob Reich or Chris Woods at 277-7089. 

.rhe Aikido Club will begin practices Wednesday from 6 to 8 

p.m. 
in 219 Rockne. 


•The 
ND/SMC Equestrian Club will hold a meeting Wednesday, January 22 at 7:30p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library for all current members and anyone interested in riding this semester. We will set up a lesson schedule at this meeting so bring your checkbooks. 

•Attention 
all rowers, the first meeting of the year will be held on Wednesday, January 29. Novice rowers should begin running on your own, as official workouts begin January 31. Any questions call Dave Reeder. 

•The 
NO Martial Arts Institute will hold beginners' classes starting Thursday, January 23 in both TaeKwonDo and Jiu-jitsu. Classes are 7:30 to 9:30p.m. on Thursday and 6-8 p.m. on Sunday in room 219 of the Rock. Advanced classes are Friday 6-8 p.m. and Saturday 10-12 a.m. 

•The 
NO Tae Kwon Do club will have practice for experienced and beginning students Tuesday and Thursday from 


8:30 to 10 p.m. in the fencing gym of the J.A.C.C. Any questions, call Lisa at 283-4852. 
r--, ~'-"' 
.~-----.rt.r~riL...cL-·~-··
?_J ur 1e • ~ , --EflK Notre Dame's Closest Neighbor 
2/1 0 of a Mile from Campus Furnished Studio 1 &2 Bedroom Apts. 2 Bedroom Townhouses 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS 
The Observer 
Laettner finalist for 1991 Sullivan 
CIIICAGO (AP) -Christian Laettner stepped to the free throw line with 12 seconds re­maining and the NCAA basket­ball semifinal between Duke and "unbeatable" Nevada-Las Vegas tied at 77-77. 
The 6-11 center knocked down his two shots for the Duke victory, ending the Rebels' 45-game winning streak. The Blue Devils went on 
to beat Kansas for the NCAA title last March and Laettner was named Most Valuable Player of the Final Four. 
For his efforts, Laettner ­who this season is the key to Duke's unbeaten record and No. 1 spot in the AP poll -was named Tuesday one of 10 ath­letes announced as finalists for the 1991 Sullivan Award. 
"It's quite an honor," Laettner, 21, said in a tele­phone interview from his hotel room as he dashed to catch the team bus for Tuesday night's game at Boston University. 
Others named by the Amateur Athletic Union as Sullivan finalists were long jumper Mike Powell, gymnast Kim Zmeskal, figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi, swimmer Mike Barrowman, boxer Eric Griffin, freestyle skier Donna 
Wein brecht, sprinter Michael Johnson, synchronized swimmer Sarah Josephson and diver Kent Ferguson. 
Laettner, now a senior and sociology major, arrived at Duke in Durham, N.C., in the fall of 1988 as a highly re­cruited post player from the Buffalo, N.Y. area. 
His first job was to correct 

~~ Esll 
"'~ ~~
i Spanish Mass ~ 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
Sunday, January 26 
10:00 a.m. Breen-Phillips Chapel 
Celebrante Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C. 
Sponsor~d. by

-
Campus Mm1stry

CAMPUS 
OHice of Minority Affairs

MNISTR>' 
2 • 
3 

u 

0 19. (9) St. John's 10-4 135 
20. (-) Tulane 13-1 91 
21. (-) UNC-Charlotte 11-2 76 
22. (-) Louisville 10-3 64 
4 
5 

Wednesday, January 22, 1992 
I 
1121 12111 Toom [1 otj!l!c! •-1 Record Pointe 1. (1) Duke [17] 12-0 473 2. (2) UCLA(2] 12-0 455 3. (6) Oklahoma State 16-0 440 4. (13) lndiar\8 13-2 406 5. (10) Connecticut 13-1 385 6. (4) Ohio State 11-2 381 7. (11) Kansas 13-1 376 8. (18) Arkansas 15-3 310 8. (8) Kentucky 14-2 306 10. (3) Arizona 11-3 291 11. (5) North Carolina 13·2 282 12. (24) Missouri 12-2 252 13. (20) Michigan State 12-2 219 14. (15) Alabama 14-3 218 15. (-) Syracuse 13-1 201 16. (23) Michigan 10-3 190 17. (14) Georgia Tech 13-4 176 18. (17) Oklahoma 11-2 152 


23. (7) Seton Hall 9-5 34 
24. (-) Stanford 11-1 33 
25. (-) UTEP 14-1 31 
Others receiving votes: Louisiana State 24, Iowa 22, Southern Cal 20, Wake Forest 18, Iowa State 15, DePaul10, Minnesota 10, Virginia 10, Wisconsin-Green Bay 6, Boston College 5, Brigham Young 5, Georgetown 5, New Mexico State 5, Utah 5, Penn State 4, Houston 3, TCU 3, UNLV 2, Florida 1, George Washington 1, Nebraska 1, Pittsburgh 1, Princeton 1, Villanova 1, Washington State 1. 
Schools participating: Alabama, Arizona, Arizona State, Ball State, Brigham Young, Colorado, Columbia, Duke, Florida State, Illinois. Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Nebraska, Noire Dame, Oregon, Oregon State, Penn, Purdue, Syracuse, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin. 
L_________________T_h_e_o_b_se_rv_e_riB_r_en_d_an_R_e_g_an_. 
people who shortened his name to Chris. Chris was his brother's name, he told them, and he was Christian. 
lie gained national attention his first season by outplaying Georgetown freshman Alonzo Mourning to put Duke in the Final Four. 
As a sophomore, Laettner's basket at the buzzer beat 
Connecticut to put Duke in the Final Four for the third year in a row. 
Last season, he averaged 1<J.8 points and 8.7 rebounds a game for the national champs, then was the leading scorer (14.1) on the U.S. Pan American Games team. Lacttner this year has averaged 20.9 points and 6.7 rebounds. 

I •••••••••••••••••••••••• CAMPUS DELIVERY OF I I
I 

I ~bt Nt\u !fork~imts 
I
I ONLY 30 CENTS!DAY MON·SAT I
I I ( ) MON-FRI -$ 17.40 ( ) MON-SUN -$47.10 I I ( ) MON-SAT-$20.10 ( ) SUN ONLY-$ 27.00 I 
I
I DELIVERY BEGINS MON FEB 3 & ENDS FRI MAY 1 I (NO DELIVERY DURING SPRING & EASTER BREAKS) I I MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO: GREG KLETZL Y I 
r---------------------------------------------~1 
I Nam Phon.'------------1 
I 

AdWress I
...................................
~ 
------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
Wednesday, January 22, 1992 The Observer 
page 13 


#4 Indiana posts Big Ten win over Michigan; Duke keeps on winning 
IU 89 MICHIGAN 74 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. (AP) ­Damon Bailey scored 22 points and keyed a decisive 10-0 sec­ond-half run Tuesday night and No. 4 Indiana beat 16th-ranked Michigan 89-74. 
The victory was Indiana's 12th straight and gave the first­place Hoosiers (14-2) a 5-0 Big Ten record. 
Michigan freshman Jalen Rose entered the game averag­ing 19.7 points, but failed to score until a 3-pointer with 
5:57 remaining and finished with five points. 
Trailing 47-35 at halftime, Michigan freshmen Juwan Howard and Chris Webber outscored Indiana 16-6 over the first five minutes of the second half. 
The Wolverines (10-4, 2-3) closed to 53-51 on a basket by Howard, who had 10 points in the spurt. 
Howard finished with a sea­son-high 26 points and Michael Talley added 15. 
But Indiana rallied with 10 straight points, five by Bailey, for a 63-51 lead with 11:26 re­maining. 
The Wolverines refused to fold, however, as they outscored Indiana 9-2 and closed to 73-69 with 5:02 left. Howard had four points, Rose hit a 3-pointer and Eric Riley added a basket. 
Bailey again ignited the Hoosiers with a basket that started an 8-2 run. The Hoosiers led 81-72 on two free throws by Calbert Cheaney, who also had 22 points. 
DUKE 95 BOSTON U. 85 
BOSTON (AP} -Christian Laettner scored 25 points and top-ranked Duke drew numer­ous fouls against Boston University as the Blue Devils to 13-0 with a 95-85 victory Tuesday night. 
Trailing 85-61 with 7:45 left, the Terriers (5-8) went on a 24­9 run capped by Mark Daly's 3­
;:::;:;: 
;:;:;::: 
{{}} T · 
pointer. That cut the lead to 94­85 but there were just 19 seconds left and they ran out of time. 
Duke, the best free throw shooting team in the Atlantic Coast Conference, hit 36 of 56 foul shots. The 6-foot-11 Laettner made 15 of 20, includ­ing all 1 0 in the frrst half. 
Three Terriers, including the two tallest, fouled out in the first 11 minutes of the second half. 
The Blue Devils led 46-33 at halftime, but Boston University cut the lead to 60-50 on a 3­pointer by Dan Delgardo with 14:34left. 
Duke scored the next 13 points, the first nine on free throws, and opened a 73-50 lead with 12:33 to go. A tip-in by Barry Huckeby ended the run. 
Jason Scott scored a career­high 30 points for the Terriers and Delgardo had 15. Bobby Hurley had 15 points for Duke and Grant Hill added 14. 
Duke's superior size and leaping ability caused problems for Boston University. Rick Rosu-Myles and Matt Price, both 6-10 centers, and 6-6 Kevin Harris, fouled out. 
Duke led 14-4 five minutes into the game. Then Boston University reeled off the next 12 points, six by Scott, to lead 16­14 with 11:09 left in the first half. 
Laettner's layup broke Duke's spell of 4:58 without a field goal and tied the game 16-16. After Scott's 10-footer gave the Terriers their last lead, 20-18 with 9:15 left in the half, the Blue Devils got hot. 
They scored four baskets in just 51 seconds, two by Brian Davis, and went ahead 26-20. Leading 26-24, the Blue Devils staged a 20-6 run with 12 points coming on foul shots as Boston University struggled de­fensively. 
TOURNAMENT 
· d 1 
Gowens sets standard for wrestlers 
By JIM VOGL Sports Writer 
Senior year is filled with various distractions-making up required classes, socializing, attending job interviews and making career decisions, but for most athletes, its also time to make the most of one's final year of eligibility. 
So it is for Marcus Gowens, the senior from Del City, OK, who has manned the 126 pound spot on the wrestling team since coming to Notre Dame as a freshman. 
Gowens won 24 matches in each of his first three years. Combined with his 15-3 record this season, his career mark stands at 87-37. 
The Irish have eight more dual matches and three more tournaments, and Gowens could conceivably eclipse the 100 win mark, a feat accom­plished by only eight others in Irish grapplers' history. 
So how does Gowens respond to this final challenge? 
"I don't know if that (100 wins) is really on his mind," said Irish coach Fran McCann. "But knowing him, I think he'd be really proud if it did happen. He's a highly motivated individual and he's got a lot of goals." 
Gowens denied any obsession with such a statistical achievement, but instead stressed a more important concern. "My goal right now is making the NCAAs and getting ready for the tournament. If I do it, that's great, but it's not some­thing I'm thinking about right now." 
After narrowly missing the NCAA's as a freshman, Gowens participated in the tourney the next two seasons. Last year, he won one of three matches, losing to Terry 

Marcus Gowens 

Brands of Iowa, who eventually took second-place. 
McCann feels Gowens' biggest trouble is having confidence at such a high level of competi­tion. "He's had a problem in the past where he hits a certain level, then he shuts himself down." 
"Hopefully, with his maturity, he's going to go out there (the NCAA's) with a high level of confidence. He's got to realize it's his last shot." 
Gowens spoke of the impor­tance of peeking for the tour­nament. "I don't feel I'm wrestling at 100-percent right now, but I feel like I'm improv­ing and getting closer to my peek. By the time March comes around, I should be ready." 
McCann described his star's wrestling style: "He's what you'd call the aggressive type. He's got to be aggressive be­cause he's not a brawler. He's not real strong physically so he's got to rely on conditioning and aggressiveness." 
According to McCann, Gowens' athletic virtues are also evident in his personal character. "He's an individual that's really going to make it in life-not just athletics-because of his work ethic." 
Even with a lock on the starting position coming into the last three seasons, Gowens takes nothing·for granted. 
"When you're at practice, you've got to think about your goals-your upcoming 
~ ;:;:;:;:: could help the team. I've
~:~:) earn registration 10fffiS an ru es are ava1 a e at {:) always tried to work hard in 
;:;::=;: "But what's important (about 
;:::;:;: the streak) is that it shows I've 
{{ become a consistent player and 
"1 bl 

the information desk of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). Forms are due back to the Center by 5 p.m. on JANUARY 28. 1992. 

,. 


CAMPUS COMPETITION Indoor Soccer (Men & Women) Badminton Doubles (Open) Co-Ree WaterVolleyball
I I 
INTERHALL COMPETITION RecSports Swim Relays (team event) _. 
QUESTIONS? CALL...239-6100 
Deadline -January 29

matches," said Gowens. "(With the proper perspective) it makes it easy to become intense." 
Experience has taught Gowens a valuable lesson. 
"As a freshman," said McCann, "he used to get pounded all the time. But now he's going out with a tremendous amount of confidence, which he's earned." 
"I had a rough time adjusting to college," said Gowens, whose talents were sought after by other strong wrestling programs including Nebraska, West Point, and Brown University. "I went through some low periods but I was able to still win matches just because wrestling means something to me. I never lost heart." 
Gowens put his final year of competitive wrestling in per­spective. At first, he methodi­cally retorted: "I haven't really thought about life after wrestling. I've tried to focus on the NCAA's." 
But on further reflection, he expressed his feelings more openly. 
"Ever since I was young (he started in first grade), wrestling was always a serious sport," said Gowens. "All the other sports just seemed like games for fun. Wrestling always meant something to me and I felt like I should take it to its limit." 
"Maybe I'll have time to give something back to the sport," he said of his immediate future in law school. He'll likely help young wrestlers on the grade school or high school level to follow in his footsteps. 
"I'll probably be involved in the sport for the rest of my life," Gowens said with conviction, and one can't help but believe him. 
practice, and the streak is a reflection of that." 
"She's always been our best post defender, but she's much more than just a post player," said the Irish coach. "She runs the floor so well-she gets a lot of her points in transition-and she can step out and hit the free-tlrrow line jumper." 
Maybe she and Comalita can have a rematch someday. 

~------~---~ -~-~ -----­
page 14 The Observer Wednesday, January 22, 1992 

Irish baseball team ranked 11th in nation, gunning for NCAA tourney 
By RICH SZABO Sports Writer 
If the old adage is true, and the third time is a charm, then this looks to be the year for the Notre Dame baseball team. 
The Irish have been one of the more successful teams in the country the last three years, recording 48-19-1, 46-12, and 45-16 records, but reaping the rewards of an NCAA tourna­ment bid in only the first of those three years, being snubbed the next two years. 
This year, the NCAA announced that the MCC champion will earn an au­tomatic invitation, and the Irish head into the season gunning for the top. 
Head coach Pat Murphy said, "The last couple of years, our not making the tournament has been a gross oversight and in­justice. Having an automatic bid (MCC) doesn't change our focus. We work hard every day and want to beat everyone we play." 
The Irish have received na­tional attention the past few years, but certainly no more than this upcoming season. Baseball America currently has the Irish at 11th in the country, their highest ranking ever, while Collegiate Baseball picks the Irish 20th. These rankings don't hold much stock to Murphy, though. 
"Rankings don't mean a whole lot right now," said Murphy, "and we have a long way to go. I'll be happy if we're on top of the ranking that comes out in June." 
Murphy has built up a na­tional-caliber program here at Notre Dame, and reaped the benefits of this with a tremen­dous recruiting class. Both of the aforementioned publica­tions tabbed this year's fresh-
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
Kevin O'Neill. "He hit contested shots, he hit open shots. Elmer Bennett played down the stretch the way you're sup­posed to." 
Bennett came off screens to knock down jumpers from all over the court. 
·. "Offensively, in the second half, we were running a lot of screens for Keith (Tower) and myself," said Bennett. 
Bennett shaked and baked for 21 points in the second half to lead the Irish comeback, on 8 nf 11 shooting. He also dished 
"'Q'>. 1·nangle Drafting Supply ~ 1021 ~North Mllin Strtrt lJ Mllhawaka. Indiana 465•s 
r-v~ 1R
I 'lo'O 
J (219) 259·2 .. 59 ' 
NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY"S STUDENTS BACK TO SCHOOL SPECIALS PLUS 
STUDENT DISCOUNTS ON UOSTJTEMS­M-F BAM-5:30 PM SAT 9 AM-NOON 

man class as the third best in 
the nation. 
Infielders Steve Verduzco and 
Paul Failla, and pitcher Tim 
Kraus were all drafted in the 
professional draft. 
"These kids are just unbeliev­able in every facet," praised Murphy, "but they still have to work. They're great people, but they're freshmen. 
"The seniors, juniors, and sophomores had better be ahead of them or our program isn't doing what it should. They will contribute a lot, but we can't rely on them to carry us." 
Verduzco is one of the more highly-touted freshmen, being picked as the Midwestern Collegiate Conference presea­son freshman of the year. 
"We try not to pay too much attention to the media," said Verduzco, "but rather we work on what we have to work on. There are a lot of freshman who are really talented. 
"As a team, if we have the kind of season we want to, we should get in (to the NCAAs). Coach Murphy plans to get better day by day, and there is no reason why we can't keep moving up." 
With seven of nine field starters returning along with the top five pitchers, the Irish indeed have the talent to move up. To get to the NCAAs, though, the Irish will have to survive a brutal schedule, in­cluding 18 straight road games to start off the season. 
The Irish will see the likes of Miami, Fla., the top team in the country according to Baseball America, as well as #19 Arizona State and #21 Indiana State. Murphy and the Irish are definitely up for the challenge. 
''I'd like to get into a groove down on the road to begin the season," said Murphy. "We love 

out a game-high nine assists, said MacLeod, "and was really his third highest total ever, and hot. We just wanted to find the MacLeod was extremely open man, and our guys pleased with his point guard's realized that Elmer was hot. performance. Bennett said, "Coming out in 
the second half, I felt just like I "Elmer Bennett gave us a did in the LaSalle game. very explosive second half," Everything was falling for me." 


FOR 

GOD COUNTRY 
NOTRE DAME JOIN THE KNIGHTS 
Open House G-11 pm 22 January -Wednesday 
For more infonnation, call Dave Certo at 239-7018 
The Observer/Andrew McCloskey Junior pitcher Pat Leahy, shown here firing a pitch to home against Northwestern, has been named Baseball America's preseason MCC player of the year. Leahy is a top returning pitcher for the 11th-ranked Irish. 
to play the best teams in the country, it's kind of fun. But we're not going down there to warm up or practice. We're go­ing down there to win, period." 
If this team's performance follows the trends of those of the past three years, them this could be the year the Irish put it all together and make the NCAA tournament selection committee hang their heads in shame as atonement for past misdeeds. 

is currently accepting applications for the following paid position: 
News Copy Editor 
To apply, please submit a one-page personal statement by 5 p.m. Friday, Jan. 24 to Monica Yant. For further information, call (239-5303). 

The Observer page 15 
BILL WATIERSON THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 
WELl, 'H)IJ'Lll-lt..\Jt.. lb '+IOR.K PRrn'{ 1-\f>..RD TO GET A. MilliON OOLLA'KS. 
\ 

"I don't have any hard evidence, Connie-but my intuition tells me that Ed's been cross-pollinatii-'-""-'-"-------. 
A.N'{WA'{, IWAS AI ... I WfNT 131\CI< To A PART'{ A F£W N16HTS M'/ ROOM ANDTOOI< AQo. I wAS F££LIN' 
DVA NTAG£ Of 11YS£LF 
?R£1TY LONELY AND 
MflNA6ED TO 6£1 MYG£LF DRUtJI(. 
I 
CROSSWORD 
64 Mitigate 65 Constrictive sub­stance  60 61  Sino-Soviet river Prefix: motion  
DOWN  
1 South fmerican rodent 2 Break -3 Gretzky's milieu 4 Its capital is Doha 5 Salt Lake City collegian 6 Like some verbs (abbr.) 7 Drifted, as sand 8 He was tied to a wheel in Hades 9 Decade (2 wds.) 10 Suffix for Siam  LECTURES Wednesday 4:20 p.m. Colloquium, "Cochlear Signal Processing," Jont Allen, Bell Labs. Room 118, Nieuwland. Sponsored by department of physics.  
(OEdward Julius Collegiate CW8802 20 Type of poodle 43 Author Deighton21 Freezing 44 Musical syllable22 Impudence 45 ProACROSS 26 Cuba or Aruba 46 -Fuehrer 1 Executive privilege (abbr.) 47 First lady11 Put -on 27 Rob 48 Strong coffee (cover up) 30 Actor Beatty 51 Weighed the con­15 fmelia Earhart, and 31 Pacino and Hirt tainer others 32 Sault -Marie 53 Asta, to Nick 16 Auctioneer's last 33 Green, as tomatoes Charles word 35 Small gathering 54 Cried 17 Road part 37 Opera part 58 "Step -!" (2 wds.) 38 Ending for psycho 59 DDT and OMP.I\ 18 Celestial handle 39 Intended 19 Composer of Johnny 40 Weather forecast Carson's theme 42 Medium session  11 "I Got-in Kalamazoo 12 vlhere Hempstead is ( 2 wds.) 13 Earnest prompting 14 Post-office office (2 wds.) 21 Takers for granted 23 Like some people's hair 24 Sandra -25 "Reduce speed" 27 Mr. America's con­cern (2 wds.) 28 Chekhov play (2 wds.) 29 Vegetations 34 -fog (confused) 35 Actor Young 36 Pod occupant 38 Certain turtles 41 Tax agency 42 "--your old man" 45 Shackle 49 Bowling button 50 Being in debt 52 Feminine ending 55 r4i 55 Adams 56 Ivy League school 57 An NCO (abbr.) 59 School organization  6:30 p.m. Presentation, "How to Obtain Summer Internships," Paul Reynolds, Career and Placement Services. Room 124, Hayes Healy Center. 7 p.m. Lecture, "The New World Order and What It Means for African-Americans," Steve Cokely. Nieuwland Science Hall. Sponsored by Black Cultural Arts Council. Thursday 11 :30 a.m. • 1 :30 p.m. Hospitality Luncheon. Center For Social Concerns. Sponsored by Emmaus: A Community with the Homeless. 12:15 p.m. "To Celebrate Columbus or Not to Celebrate: Is that the Question?" J. Micheal Mann. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute. MENU Notre Dame Cantonese BBQ Ribs Baked Whitefish with Herbs Swiss Steak Noodles Romanoff  ,  



Sports 
page 16 Wednesday, January 22, 1992 
Rollercoaster Irish pull off another comeback win 

Down by 18 at half, Irish defense shuts down Marquette 69-63 
By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Writer 
Milwaukee-The comeback kids did it again! 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team, trying to over­come a series of ups and downs and settle into a rhythm, used an outstanding defensive effort and Elmer Bennett's 21 second­half points to overcome an 18 point halftime deficit and escape with a 69-63 victory 
... over Marquette . "In the first half, we were let­ting a bunch of freshmen and sophomores take it to us," said Bennett. .. After the half, we made some defensive adjust­ments and set some screens. When they went cold, they lost their composure." Experience turned out to be the crucial factor in the game. The Irish responded to Warrior runs of 10 and 12 points in the first half. Marquette, however, could not contain the Irish in the second half. The Irish opened up that half with a 25-3 run, giving them a 52-48 lead, one which they would never relinquish. The Notre Dame spurt was keyed by Keith Tower, who set numerous picks for Bennett and teamed with LaPhonso Ellis to play tenacious defense un­derneath. It looked like the Irish come­back would be in vain as Ellis picked up his fourth foul with 
10:34 remaining and Tower did the same at the 9:02 mark. 
Fortunately, both Jon Ross and Nathion Gilmore played well enough to hold off the Warriors. The closest they came to regaining the lead was 52-51 when Shannon Smith hit two free throws with 8:32 re­maining. 
Following a three-point play by Bennett and a layup by the Warriors' Tony Miller, the score 
Nowlin paces women's basketball 
By RENE FERRAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
When Margaret Nowlin scored her 1,OOOth career point earlier this season against Tennessee, she called her high school coach in Saint Paul, Minn. to give him the good news. 
"He said after he saw me play my freshman year, he didn't think I would score 100 points," she joked. 
But the 6-foot-1 senior has matured from a player who "during the Blue-Gold scrim­mage (freshman year) had a one-on-one and didn't know what to do, so I threw the ball off the backboard as hard as I could." 
"I made a steal, and Comalita (Haysbert) got back on de­fense," Nowlin recalled. "I was dribbling down, wondering what I should do, because I didn't think I could take her. So I stopped at the free throw line and out of desperation, just threw the ball up there. 
"I still get kidded about that one." 
Now though, she's the definite leader of the Notre Dame women's basketball team, the shining star of a 4-10 squad that will be a key player as the Irish try to turn their season around down the stretch. 
"She's going to be the one to carry us to where we're going," said ND coach Muffet McGraw. "She's turned into an All­American caliber player, a money player. 
Indeed, Nowlin has stepped into the leadership role vacated by the graduation of last year's senior trio of Karen Robinson, Krissi Davis and current grad­uate assistant Sara Liebscher. She leads the Irish in scoring 
(17.4 ppg). rebounding {9.9 rpg), field goal percentage {.543), and blocks {11). 

More importantly, Nowlin has become the "go-to" player McGraw was searching for earlier in the season. She scored 24 points and pulled down 10 rebounds against Stanford in November, and a week ago Sunday, scored a game-high 23 points to lead the Irish against Tennessee. 
"When we lost Karen, Krissi, and Sara, I was the most expe­rienced in terms of playing time," said Nowlin, "so I knew that I would have to assume that role." 
"She's really stepped up her game," added McGraw. "Other teams are focusing on her now, and she's still coming up big. We can't ask too much more from her." 
was 61-58. Smith then stripped the ball from Tower with 1:52 left to give Marquette a chance to tie it up with a trey. 
However, Daimon Sweet, who finished with 18 points for the Irish, returned the favor, swip­ing a Robb Logterman pass and taking it all the way to with the Irish a 63-58 advantage with 
1:43 left. Sweet's play all but sealed up the victory for the Irish. 
"We played two dramatically different halves," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "Fortunately, our guys refused to quit and the second half was ours. We were fortunate to be down by only 18 at halftime. They outshot us, outrebounded us, and outplayed us." 
In the first half, the Irish quickly found themselves down 10-0, and did not get on the scoreboard until the 16:40 mark, when Ellis put in a layup off an alley-oop from Bennett. 
However, the Warriors were red-hot, scoring on 10 of their first eleven possessions to open up a 24-9 lead with 11:37 left in the first half. 
The Irish were able to work their way back into the game, pulling to within eight, at 31­23, but the Warriors reeled off 12 straight points to go up 20. 
"We had been in this situation before," said Ellis. "At halftime we knew we had a chance. It was just a matter of getting it done." 
The win was Notre Dame's 16th in the last 17 games against Marquette, and it en­abled the Irish to finish 5-4 on their grueling road trip. In four of the wins, the Irish had to· overcome double-digit deficits to pull out victories. 
Said MacLeod, as the Irish return home to face 12-ranked Missouri on Thursday evening, "I never want to see another nine-game road trip again." 

Nowlin arrived at Notre Dame with a long list of cre­dentials: Gatorade Player of the Year for Minnesota; Parade All­American; USA Today Super 25 selection; two-time all-state player; Miml.eapolis-Saint Paul Metro Player of the Year as a senior 
But once on campus, she found her path blocked by frontline returnees Annie Schwartz, Heidi Bunek, Diondra Toney and Davis. She started her freshman year slowly, but an injury to Bunek opened up playing time for Nowlin. 
She had a six-game stretch midway through the year where she averaged eight points and five rebounds. She earned a starting spot with nine games left in the season, and except for the first game of the 1989-90 campaign, hasn't relinquished it since-her consecutive-game streak is up to 74 games. 
After scoring only four points that freshman year, Nowlin has averaged over 11 points and sev(;ln rebounds per game the past two seasons, as well as shooting over 50 percent from the field each year. 
"It was a long adjustment, trying to learn a new position," 
see NOWLIN I page 13 
Bennett, defense keys to victory 
By ANTHONY KING 
Associate Sports Editor 

How do you come back from an 18-point halftime deficit, on the road, in front of a packed, hostile crowd? 
Easy. Just play outstanding defense and let Elmer Bennett do the rest. 
When the Irish went down 24-9, visions of West Virginia and Virginia lingered throughout the Bradley Center. Notre Dame looked like the same road-weary team that showed up for the past two contests. 
The second half, however, saw the return of the Irish team that beat North Carolina. 
It started with defense. Notre Dame came out and blanketed Damon Key, who has scored 13 first-half points. Keith Tower and Laphonso Ellis clamped down on Key, and the guards sagged in to help contest Key's shots. 
"We said we were going to go back in there and support the post players, and if he {Tony Miller) started making his out­side shots, we would change," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "Luckily for us, he didn't." 
The defense helped the Irish to a 25-3 run to start the sec­ond half, and pull to a 52-48 lead, and was also critical down the stretch as Ellis swat­ted away two key shots to seal the Notre Dame victory. 
In the second half, the Irish defense held the Warriors to 18 points on 15% shooting from the floor. 
Offensively, the second half became the Elmer Bennett show. 
"Bennett really executed well," said Marquette coach 
see HOOPS/page 14 
The Observer/Jake Senior Margaret Nowlin, shown here in action against Australia, leading the Irish squad in scoring, rebounding, and blocks. 


