------------------~ ---­
The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 12 TUESDAY,SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Clinton to make campaign speech at Notre Dame 
By EMILY HAGE information is available at this been galvanized by his im­campus back from the republi­ton's visit. "We feel that Vice News Writer time. pression of the success of the cans, and Bill Clinton's coming President Quayle gives us a 
Democratic presidential can­The Arkansas governor's de­campus democratic movement here will help us tremendously," large advantage in Indiana and didate Governor Bill Clinton will cision to speak at Notre Dame during the first weeks of the President Andy Holmgren said. we expect to win it and we ex­visit Notre Dame Friday to de­comes in response to a recent grass roots effort at Notre He added that there is re­pect to campaign hard to win." liver "a major policy address," invitation by University Presi­Dame," said Wesley Kirkpatrick, newed enthusiasm in the Students for Life Co-president according to University public dent Father Edward Malloy. Clinton campaign coordinator at democratic party at Notre Claire Johnson expressed con­relations. Continuing a long-standing Notre Dame. Dame, citing the more than 300 cern about the invitation from 
The site and exact time of the Notre Dame tradition, Malloy "As college democrats, we're students who signed up to join the University. "I understand address will be released follow­invited each of the major party's very excited about the visit," he the democrats at last week's (why Clinton was invited,) but ing discussions between Uni­presidential aspirants to added. activities night. taken in conjunction with versity and Clinton campaign campus "to discuss issues of Notre Dame's College Mike Glasstetter, vice chair­Moynihan, it makes me question officials. Ethan Zinbler of the public concern related to the Democrats said Clinton's visit man of the Notre Dame/Saint the value the University places Clinton campaign in Little Rock, campaign." will have a profound effect on Mary's College Republicans, on the right to life." Ark., said that no additional "Clinton's intention to visit has campus. "We can take the was not concerned about Clin-see CLINTON I page 4 
University aids developer's purchase of ND Ave. Apartments 
By DAVID KINNEY "All parties involved recog­News Editor nize that the neighborhood had problems," said Lyphout. "But I 
The Northeast Development think we've turned the corner Corporation, boosted by a sub­and I'm optimistic about the fu­stantial loan from the University ture of the Northeast Neigh­of Notre Dame, has purchased borhood." Notre Dame Ave. Apartments Two of the three apartment and several contiguous buildings are completely vacant, properties and is in the process and Matteo expects the three of rehabilitating the area. remaining units to be empty by 
Although Notre Dame will Sept. 15. Former tenants left have no control in the project, after leases expired or they the University will support the were released of lease plan financially, according to obligations. Jim Lyphout, associate vice The corporation has begun to president of business affairs. gut the units out, repaint and 
The corporation, owned by recarpet, and replace all appli­ND graduate Chris Matteo, is in ances and cabinets. Crews will the process of razing several do extensive landscaping recent acquisitions, including around the apartments. 919 South Bend Ave., 804 N A number of security changes Notre Dame Ave. and 814 Corby will be made to improve safety Blvd. The corporation also in the area, including new door purchased commercial property locks, security systems and behind the apartments at 820 night-time security guards to the apartments and the houses prove the area south of campus: neighborhood.Notre Dame Ave., according to patrol the area, Matteo said. should discourage crime prob­• The University plans to sell • Beginning in 1989, the Uni­
Matteo. Structures are being removed to lems from recurring in the fu­to Matteo several single family versity began purchasingMatteo said that the apart­eliminate dark and unsafe ture, he said. homes in the 900 block of Notre houses along the avenue. Five 
ments will be extensively reno­areas. While the University and the Dame Ave. for later de­houses were torn down, four vated this fall and leased pri­Matteo said lax management city have a definite interest in velopment, Lyphout said. were renovated and are beingmarily to students in January. of the property, short-term seeing the area cleaned up, • Notre Dame is part of a rented to faculty and staff and 
"What we are going to do is leases and high turnover led to Matteo said that "the neighbor­partnership, including the City one remains vacant, Lyphoutbasically make the place nice high crime rate in the neigh­hood is very pleased about what of South Bend, St. Joseph's said. again for students," he said. borhood. "A lot of problems is going on and very pleased Hospital, the Northeast Neigh­• The University recentlyTwo duplexes will also be re­stemmed from the apartment that students will be back." borhood Association and others, purchased a building on the habilitated and leased to stu­project." Notre Dame is involved in that has hired a consultant to corner of St. Peter and Howard dents, Matteo said. More intense management of several other projects to im-develop a long-term plan for the 
see NO AVE./ page 4 

Troops fire on ANC march in South Africa 
BISHO, South Africa (AP) -
of trying to seize power, and Troops in the black homeland of said the government would not Ciskei opened fire Monday on resume power-sharing talks an ANC march against the until the ANC abandons region's military government, "Communist" plans. killing at least 24 p.eople and "There is a communistic injuring almost 200. shortcut to bring the economy 
South Africa said it would to its knees, weaken the country send troops to Ciskei at the re­and take over when it is weak," quest of the homeland's pro­he said on state-run television. Pretoria government to guard The Ciskei border was closed important installations from after the shootings and many of possible retaliatory attacks. ANC protesters gathered in Homeland troops patrolled the King William's Town, about four capital, Bisho, and guarded the miles from the border. border, where ANC supporters "It seemed so absolutely un­staged a vigil late Monday. necessary. If this is a taste of 
Ciskei is one of several things to come, then God help homelands formed by South us all," said John Hall, head of Africa under apartheid to cre­the National Peace Secretariat, ate separate nations for blacks. who was on the scene. The The homelands, dependent on secretariat monitors political South African aid, have been violence; failures and most are domi­The Ciskei troops fired on the nated by authoritarian regimes. march by about 20,000 ANC The homelands are expected to apartheid -said the killings supporters calling for the re­rejoin South Africa under a new could trigger an outbreak of moval of Ciskei ruler Brig. Gen. constitution to share power popular anger. Oupa Gqozo (OU-pa COR-sa), with the black majority. The Ciskei government is an witnesses said. The march be­
But the bloodbath in Ciskei ally of President De Klerk's gan in King William's Town. threatened to plunge South government, which the ANC Soldiers with semi-automatic Africa into a major crisis and blamed for the killings on the weapons fired into the crowd as block efforts to revive stalled outskirts of Bisho, about 450 terrified people ran screaming talks between the African Na­miles south of Johannesburg. for cover. Some witnesses said tional Congress and the gov­A Ciskei military official said the troops fired for at least two ernment on giving blacks the troops fired after being attacked minutes before throwing tear vote and ending apartheid. by marchers. gas grenades. 
The ANC -which considers South African Foreign Minis­see S.AFRICA I page 4 the homelands vestiges of ter Pik Botha accused the ANC 


....--------­
--~--­

page 2 The Observer Tuesday , September 8,1992 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Who's better off now than 12 years ago? 
Last Tuesday and Wednesday nights Notre Dame and Saint Mary's had their respective Activities Night and something very interesting happened. 
One stand was handing 


out bumper stickers and Mike Scrudato 
was decorated with signs 
for various political Sports Editor candidates. This stand had a constant flow of-------­
people who seemed really enthusiastic about the upcoming election. 
Being that this was an event at one the most conservative schools in the country, most would assume that the aforementioned organization was College Republicans, but it was not. It was College Democrats. 
Its representatives were well informed and answered questions intelligently about their candidates-Bill Clinton and AI Gore. When asked why one should vote for the Democrats, he or she was given descriptions of Clinton's proposed educational and health care reforms and Gore's environmental record. 
One walked away from the booth with a good understanding of the Democratic ticket and why it made sense to vote for it on November 3 or on his or her absentee ballot. 
If one posed the same question to the Republican representative at Saint Mary's the same question, he or she really wasn't given any real answers, only more questions and compf!risons between Clinton and Jimmy Carter. 
"Did you watch the (Republican) Convention?" 

I saw five minutes of it, and the lone im­pression I was left with was of a woman asking the delegates if the country was better now than it was four years ago. Though they responded with an enthusiastic "Yes," most Americans would probably disagree. 
Since this tactic was used by Ronald Reagan 12 years ago against Jimmy Carter, one would assume that is why Republicans are comparing Clinton to Carter. 
Why else would anyone compare the Arkansas governor to a President who was voted out of the White House 12 years ago. 
If the Clinton-Carter connection is supposed to be a factor in this election, why wasn't the Bush-Gerald Ford link made in 1988 or the Reagan-Richard Nixon connection made in 1980 and 1984? Both Ford and Nixon were in office 12 years before those elections. 
These pairings sound absurd, as is the Clinton-Carter one. The next thing Republicans will be comparing is real life problems with sit­coms. 
It seems that Americans are finally looking at the issues and realizing the country is in trouble this campaign season, not political rhetoric and the past. 
At least this seems to be happening on this campus. If College Democrats can make an impact at Notre Dame, maybe the polls are telling the truth about the upcoming election. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Today's Staff 

News Production 
Becky Barnes Kim Massman Bevin Kovelik Jordache Maggio Jeanne Blasi 




MARKET UPDATE ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 


NATIONAL 
Lambs crave taste of the real thing
•DES MOINES-Lambs don't care much about being part of the Pepsi generation, and if Coke is the real thing, it doesn't matter to them because they will drink it. And, obviously they'll put on valuable weight; and it's recycling something that otherwise would have been a waste disposal problem. Arnold McClain, livestock supervisor at Iowa State University's research farm near Chariton, discovered that a bottling company was discarding gallons and gallons of colas daily because of packaging errors. He decided to see if the animals liked the stuff and, if so, whether it would help them grow. They liked it and the free soda reduced the lambs' appetite for more expensive corn. 
Ignored Ohio city seeks secession 
•TOLEDO-Welcome, Toledo. Michigan will roll out the red carpet for this Lake Erie city of 330,000 if it decides to secede from Ohio. Frank Semersky, a plastics industry consultant, wrote a letter to The Blade, published Aug. 30, suggesting that Toledo secede from Ohio to become "Michigan's second-largest city." He said Ohio pays very little attention to the area, noting that Toledo has more in common with Detroit, about 45 miles 

OF INTEREST 
•sADD 
will hold its first meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 300 of the University Health Center. 

•The 
Society of Women Engineers will have its first meeting today at 6 p.m. in the Engineering Student Center. Pizza will be served. 

•van 
Drivers Training Seminars will be offered for all those who have not previously attended a course and are planning to use the vans belonging to the Center for Social Concerns. The course will be held at 5 p.m. today, tomorrow, Oct. 6 and 7, Nov. 16 and 17. This seminar is mandatory for all esc van drivers. 

•Multicultural 
Executive Council general Meeting will be held today at 6 p.m. in the ISO Lounge (2nd Floor LaFortune). Anyone interested in helping to organize the Fall Festival is encouraged to attend. 

•undergraduate 
Schools Committee do not forget about the last training session tonight at 7 p.m. in Hayes­Healy Auditorium. This meeting is mandatory for all 


H L 
55 44 86 69 70 46 70 57 88 70 84 63 84 68 94 74 78 68 82 68 81 63 64 55 82 65 90 61 72 51 73 59 89 69 75 64 64 48 77 68 75 50 66 45 
78 60 
79 68 

those who have not yet attended a session. 
•ND/SMC 
Right-To-Life, the campus pro-life club, will have the first organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Room 283 of Galvin Life Science Center. 

•Disaster 
training classes will be held at the St. Joseph County Chapter for those interested in becoming Red Cross disaster volunteers. Mass Care will be held to­day from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Family Services will be held Thursday, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 

•Notre 
Dame College Democrats first meeting will be held tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Center for Social Concerns. 

•Biology 
Club meeting for this afternoon is postponed until Sept. 15 at 5 p.m. in Room 101 Galvin Life Science Center. 

•weight 
Watchers at work will be introduced as a new program. For more information call Peggy Peterson at Human Resources at 239-5389. 


to the north, than Columbus, about 130 miles to the south. Toledo would need approval from the Ohio and Michigan legislatures and Congress before being allowed to secede and join Michigan, said Steven Ludd, a Bowling Green State University political science professor. 
CAMPUS Local homeless shelter honored 
•SOUTH BEND -Strict rules and a "tough love" policy have helped make the South Bend Center for the Homeless shelter one of the best in the nation. The center's house rules on studying, smoking and watching television are enforced as strictly as its hours: the front doors lock at 9:30 nightly, and lights are out by 10 p.m. Weekday wake-up calls come at 6 a.m. Officials of the National Coalition for the Homeless honored the shelter last week, citing it as a model for other U.S. facilities to follow. "There are nearly 10,000 homeless shelters and facilities in the country, but this is among the best," said Fred Kamas, executive director of the Washington­based coalition. For an hour every day, children staying at the shelter must attend a study hall, where volunteers from the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College tutor them individually. 
Sports  Systems  
Rich Kurtz  Harry Zembillas  
Illustrations  
Steve Duenes  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObServer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING September 7 
Wall Street was not open 
in observance of Labor Day 
• 
In 1664: The Dutch surrendered New Amsterdam to the British, who renamed it New York. 

• 
In 1892: An early version of "The Pledge of Allegiance" appeared in "The Youth's Companion." 

• 
In 1930: The comic strip "Biondie" first appeared. 

• 
In 1966: The television series "Star Trek" premiered on NBC. 

• 
In 1974: President Ford granted an unconditional pardon to former President Nixon for any federal crimes committed during his term of office. 

• 
In 1990: President Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev arrived in Helsinki, Finland, for a one-day summit sparked by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. 


Tuesday, September 8,1992 


President of former Soviet republic quits 
DUSHANBE, Tajikistan (AP) -The hard-line Communist president, Rakhmon Nabiyev, resigned Monday after armed anti-government militants stopped him at the airport and prevented him from leaving the Tajik capital. 
Two presidential bodyguards were injured as Nabiyev was detained. 
Nabiyev was the third presi­dent of a former Soviet republic to be toppled in the tumult fol­lowing the 1991 collapse of the Soviet government. The Geor­gian and Azerbaijani presidents also were ousted amid civil strife. 
The resignation came a week after armed opponents seized the presidential palace, forcing Nabiyev into hiding and taking more than 40 hostages, who were later freed. Days later, Nabiyev's Cabinet and leaders of the Supreme Soviet legisla­ture approved a vote of no-con­fidence in his government. 
He faced growing opposition from a coalition of former Communists, the liberal Demo­cratic Party, the Islamic Revival Party and Rastekhez, or Re­newal, a nationalist people's front. They said he did not move fast enough to introduce political and religious freedoms and end civil strife. 
Nabiyev, 61, said that he de­cided to resign in order to end a civil war in the poorest former Soviet republic, a mostly Muslim country of 5.3 million people bordering China and Afghanistan. 
Tajik television showed the white-haired Nabiyev at the VIP lounge of Dushanbe airport, wearing a gray suit and brown tie and surrounded by 15 senior government and legislative leaders as he signed a document. 
He then said in a calm voice: ''I'm submitting my resigna­
He passed his powers to par­liament speaker Akbarshah Iskandarov, in accordance with the constitution. 
"Taking into account the po­litical situation, and in order to stabilize it and stop the fratrici­dal war, I decided to relinquish my powers as president," he said. His statement was later broadcast on television throughout the Commonwealth of Independent States. 
Nabiyev also foreswore any "provocation or intrigues" in Tajik politics, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported. 
The Cabinet voted to give Nabiyev a pension along with the home in which he lives, and to provide bodyguards. 
Nabiyev and a group of law­makers had gone to the Dushanbe airport to fly to his native Khuzhand, in northern Tajikistan, to meet with other pro-Nabiyev lawmakers boy­cotting the legislature. 
They were detained in the VIP lounge by militants who identified themselves as "the youth of Dushanbe," the group which last week occupied the palace and took officials hostage, Interfax said. They released the last of the hostages on Thursday and left the complex without incident on Saturday. 
A Dushanbe journalist who witnessed the scene said about 1,500 people surrounded the lounge. He said one of Nabiyev's guards fired accidentally, and the militants fired back, wounding two presidential guards in the legs. 
Four Russian tanks and two armored personnel carries ar­rived at the airport during the incident, but did not intervene, 
schools. But why settle? Kaplan prepcourses help students raise their scores and theirchancesof being admitted into their first-choice schools. Fact is. noone has helped students score higher' 


page 3 
The Observer 


The Observer/Pat McHugh 

Sculpture under scrutiny 
This sculpture by artist Marcia Kaplan is part of her show "Untitled" that has sparked recent controversy at St. Mary's. The sculpture was removed from the LeMans Hall lawn and placed in the Moreau Galleries where it will remain until October 2. 
Normalcy returns after hurricane 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. (AP) ­Two weeks after being pounded by Hurricane Andrew, south Florida staggered Monday toward what might have to pass for normalcy, as temporary crises gave way to the be­ginnings of a long recovery. 
Authorities said shelter, food, water and clothing were avail­able to everyone who needed them. The desperate scramble for life's necessities was re­placed by long lines for food stamps and federal grants, te­dious home repairs and clean up, and family life in annoyingly close quarters at military tent cities. 
"It's beginning to look more like the old neighborhood again," said Bob Beolet, mow­ing a neighbor's lawn in the hard-hit Cutler Ridge area. "It's good to see the clean-up guys here." 
Down the block from Beolet, county garbage crews loaded debris into dump trucks. At another house, a contracting crew nailed plywood and tarpaper on a roof peeled apart by Andrew's 165 mph wind Aug. 24. 
New federal and state aid centers opened, handing out millions of dollars in food stamps, disaster grants and interest-free loans. 
Help-wanted signs sprouted along U.S. 1, some for home supply stores struggling to keep up with demand. 
Contractors roamed tent cities seeking laborers at $10 an hour. Federal marshals exhorted the residents to work. 
"We don't want people to just sit around all day," said Eric Thompson, a deputy U.S. mar­

You've come a long way, baby! 
Happy 21st Jackie 
shal. 
The five tent cities, initially shunned by most storm refugees, suddenly were nearly full Monday. Evacuees were sent out of 11 schools that had served as shelters; the schools had to be prepared for the start of classes Sept. 14, two weeks late. 
"We feel it's real important that the kids get back into school. It will put a normal pattern back into their lives," said Nancy Retherford, a Red Cross spokeswoman. 
Military tents housed 2,154 people early Monday, and Army Lt. Col. Bill Reynolds said more tent cities may be built. 
"It's no longer just a few tents," said Roland Bombalier, who went to the one at Harris Field six days earlier. "It's really a small town." 
His new neighborhood in­cludes a medical tent, kitchen, showers, a barber shop, a YMCA day care tent rllled with raucous children, and a tent with lawyers offering free ad­vice. Amenities such as televi­sions and videocassette recorders have been added, and a sound stage was being built for live band performances. 
"We even had The Miami Herald thrown to our front door today," said Bombalier, 46. 
Love, 
tmuarta Auto lnsuranc Our good rates may

Mom, Dad, Frank, 
save you money. Call fOr aquote 9-5, 289-1993.

and Therese 
Office near camp.~s. 

••• ALUMNI
Sure. there are other 


-SENIOR 
~!:CLUB 





KARAOKE 
Wednesday night! 
9--2 
The place to be for the 
"Class of '93" 
must be 21 
page 4 



dies after transplant 


PITTSBURGH (AP) -Doctors were not sure Monday what caused the death of a mystery man who survived for 71 days with a baboon's liver, but they said the historic operation helped pave the way for more animal-to-human transplants. 
The 35-year-old man, whose name was not made public, died Sunday as doctors at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center tried to wean him from a respirator. 
The man died from bleeding inside the skull but did not have a stroke as was first an­nounced, said Dr. John Fung, chief of transplant surgery. Autopsy results were not in yet, he said. Early indications were the hemorrhage probably was not directly related to the transplant. 
Dr. Howard Doyle, a member of the transplant team, said the man had suffered a blood infec­tion and loss of liver function since the operation but ap­peared to be improving. 
More would be known Tues­day, Fung said. 
The man received the liver June 28 in an 11-hour opera­tion that was the first animal­to-human liver transplant. He had suffered from hepatitis B, which was destroying his own liver and likely would have at­tacked any transplanted human liver, doctors said. 
"It's given us an idea of what to look for, what the drawbacks are, what the potential benefits are," Fung said. 
Susan Manko, a medical cen­ter spokeswoman, said she and her co-workers were told only the alias under which the man was registered. Even the alias 

ND Ave. 
continued from page 1 
streets that will house the legal aid clinic of the Notre Dame Law School. Lyphout said he hopes it will be "a real good anchor in the neighborhood." 
Matteo, a 1988 marketing 
was not released. 

"He probably didn't want to be bothered with the news media," she said. "If people found out who he was, they 
time. I'm talking about the Na-
would be calling him all the
tional Enquirer and 'A Current Affair."' Animal rights activists op­posed to animal-to-human transplants had raised ethical questions. "Animal rights groups should feel vindicated, though we don't applaud the death of any person," said Wayne Pacelle, national spokesman for The Fund for Animals Inc., based in Silver Springs, Md. The man was able to move out of intensive care Aug. 3 and into a regular room at Presby­terian University Hospital, also at the center. He was able to eat hospital meals and drink chocolate milkshakes, Manko said. He began leg and arm exercises and could walk around his room or down the hall, pulling along the pole that held his in­travenous feeding. He watched videotape movies -Danny DeVito was his fa­vorite actor -and eagerly read newspaper stories about him­self. The man kept his sense of humor and laughed at baboon jokes, Manko said. "He had a really light attitude about everything," she said. 
Doctors believe the patient developed a blood infection after dye was injected into his bile duct Aug. 28 for an X-ray, possibly introducing bacteria. A fever sent him back to intensive care. 
major living in South Bend, founded the Northeast Devel­opment Corporation specifically for this project. He also owns Lafayette Square Townhomes and rents several single family homes in the area. 
"We really have an opportu­nity to make an impact," he said, "to carry over to the whole neighborhood." 
The Observer Tuesday, September 4,1992 
S. Africa 
continued from page 1 

Dead and wounded people were scattered about as sur­vivors tried to care for them. Some struggled to crawl away, dragging dead or injured friends, witnesses said. 
"People were paralyzed ­even the ANC leadership," said local journalist Guy Jepson. "It 



Clinton 
continued from page 1 
The choice of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., as recipient of last year's Laetare Medal met with opposition by many bishops because of his pro-choice stance. 
The tradition of invitations was established by Malloy's predecessor, Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus, in his first year as the University's president in 1952. 
As yet, there has been no re­sponse from President Bush to Malloy's invitation. 
was absolutely terrifying." 

Witnesses said the first of two bursts of gunfire erupted when the marchers stormed through a back entrance of a stadium on Bisho's outskirts. More shooting broke out a few minutes later, after protesters began ripping down razor wire erected to contain the march, they said. 
Ciskei Defense Chief Brig. Gen. Marius Oelschig said his forces began shooting after being attacked by a group of marchers armed with handguns and grenades. 
A spokesman for the South African embassy in Ciskei, said 24 people had been killed and 196 wounded, most of them by bullets. 
"The blood of the slain and the injured has indelibly stained the hands of Brigadier Gqozo and his henchmen. ... An equal responsibility devolves also on the De Klerk government," the ANC declared in a statement. 


The Observer 
news department is holding an informational meeting for new reporters. 
Wednesday, Sept. 9 7:30p.m. Foster Room, LaFortune 
All those interseted in writing for The Observer please attend. For more information, call 239-5303. 
JFTINANCCJE C1LUIBS 

GREEI<S & CLUBS 

MAPLE LANE 
BARBERSHOP •1000 
RAISE A COOL 

HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 
IN JUST ONE. WEEKI 

SAT 8:00-3:00 ~LUS $1000 F'OR 1HE 
2112 South Bend Avenue 
MEMBER WHO CALLS! 
Appointments if desired 
No obligation. No cost. 



FIRST MEETING
272-6722
You also get a FREE 
HEADPHONE RADIO 
Serving th.e 'J{gtre 'Dame 
just for calling 

communityfor over 30 yeJJrs
1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 

TUESDAY, SEPT. 7 
MACRI'S PIZZA & ITALIAN RESTAURANT 

7:00P.M. 
PICKUP ONLY $1 off any 12" or 14" Pizza 



124 HAYES--HEALY
$2 off 16" or 18" Pizza Only with this ad 

52303 Emmons Rd. Georgetown Shopping Center (next to Club Shenanigan's) 

All Club members and interested students 

are welcome to come. Important
rtWb~'~IOUR PHOTO I PORTRAITS 
916 Ersktne Pima • South Bend, 1'1diana 46614 
(219j 299-0600 


information about Career Night (20+
.9lvai£a6[e for 

Personal Portraits• Passports • Identification 

firms attending) & upcoming
Graduation Pictures Always at a reasonable price 


Club activities 
Just 5 minutes from campus 


--------------~--~~~----~-­
Tuesday, September 8,1992 
First black woman to enter into space 
The Observer page 5 
--~---------~­
-----------~-~~-------~--------~ 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) -Mae Jemison, a doctor­turned-astronaut, believes she will be taking one small step for equality when she rockets into orbit aboard Endeavour. 
Jemison, whose mission is scheduled to begin Saturday, will be the first black woman in space, an honor she accepts with some guilt feelings. 
''I'm very aware of the fact that I'm not the first woman of color, the first African-Ameri­can woman, who had the skills, the talent, the desire to be an astronaut. I know that I happen to be the first one that NASA selected, right now the only one," Jemison, 35, said. 
Only three black Americans, all men, have flown in space. The first was Guion Bluford, on the eighth shuttle flight in 1983. 
Of NASA's current 92 astro­nauts, five are black: four men and Jemison, who was chosen in 1987. 
"In that sense, yeah, I want people to know," Jemison said, referring to her flight. "I don't want it to just be Lieutenant Uhura in 'Star Trek,' whom I watched all the time and I thought it was wonderful. ... I want people to know those things can be true and they're real." 
Jemison met actress Nichelle Nichols, who portrayed Uhura, at a "Star Trek" convention a few years ago before Jemison was assigned to Endeavour's laboratory research mission. 
During the weeklong flight, Jemison will be in charge of four female frogs that will be induced to ovulate; their eggs will be soaked with sperm to see how tadpoles develop in weightlessness. 
She also will test the power of positive thinking, oi: biofeed­back, in an effort to prevent space motion sickness. 
Six others are assigned to the Spacelab mission, a joint ven­ture between NASA and Japan's space agency. Among them are the first married couple in space and the first Japanese to fly on a U.S. space­ship. 
"With these few exceptions, it's your standard Spacelab crew," said mission manager Aubray King. 
Jemison views her presence on a personal level -"God, I get to go into space and that's something I've always Wanted to do!" -and on a higher so­cial plane. 
"I have to look at it as an in­dividual who's part of a society and that society has oftentimes told people who look like me that they can't succeed," she said in a recent interview. 
"It's important not only for a little black girl growing up to know, yeah, you can become an astronaut because here's Mae Jemison. But it's important for older white males who sometimes make decisions on those careers of those little black girls." 
Three decades ago, in an in­ner-city neighborhood in Chicago, Jemison was one of those little black girls. 

Knott Hall junior Kathy Campbell, Flanner sophomore Mark Carolin, and Flanner senior Marty Sprunck audition for the Christmas comedy "The Importance of Being Uncle Roscoe." 
Lewis telethon raises record amount despite protests from disease victims 

GUATEMALEN &INDIAN IMPORTS jewelry, clothing, & accessories GREAT SELECTION, GREAT PRICES! 
StoP bY SEPTEMBER 7-12 to look, buy, 10 a.m. -5 p.m. Or visit... in Sorin Room 
of LaFortune 
$1 Raffle for $60 in merchandise. Proceeds go to St. Thomas Lutheran Church for project in Guatemala 
ALUMNI
Ill 
SENIOR 

LAS VEGAS (AP) -Jerry Lewis raised a record $45,759,368 Monday through his annual muscular dystrophy telethon, despite protests from victims of the disease and a White House appointee. 
"The American people are listening. They heard me," Lewis said as the tote board registered the new record, nearly $688,000 over a record amount set last year. 
His voice broke as he praised his staff and told a cheering audience: "We're so grateful we have a shot at winning this thing." 
The Muscular Dystrophy As­sociation had been concerned about breaking the 1991 telethon mark because of protests by muscular dystrophy victims, including a Bush ad­ministration official with a mild form of the disease. 
Lewis, who has worked for years for the association, said earlier that it was important this year's telethon collect "one dollar more" than last year's tote of $45,071,857. Last year, corporate sponsors presented checks for an additional $65 million. 
This year's figure for addi­tional corporate donations was not immediately tabulated. 
The telethon featured ap­pearances by dozens of stars, including Billy Crystal, Robin Williams, Whoopi Goldberg, Liza Minnelli, Ringo Starr and others. 
Association officials said about 100 million people watch the telethon annually. 
Lewis kicked off the 21 1/2­hour event Sunday night with an appeal for Hurricane An­drew victims and a promise that this year's show would be the best, despite the contro­versy. 
Some muscular dystrophy victims are critical of Lewis for an article he wrote in 1990 in which he envisioned himself as a muscular dystrophy victim and said the experience would make him half a person. Others complain the telethon relies on pity. 
Muscular dystrophy is a chronic disease characterized by the wasting away of muscles. It afflicts about 1 million Americans. 
In Los Angeles, about 20 people, many in wheelchairs, protested outside a television station broadcasting the show Sunday. 
"The disability rights move­ment and the telethon pity pa­rade are on a head-on collision course," said Marta Russell, who wore a sign reading "More Harm Than Good." 
She said people with disabili­ties want work, not charity or pity. But Jack Epling, also in a wheelchair outside the station, defended Lewis. 
"He works for us, he works for the young people and the generation to come, for a cure. I don't know what else you can ask of the man but that," Epling said. 
White-collar saleries fall in downward spiral 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The wages of college-educated, white-collar workers and women are in a downward spi ral, a new study says. 
The inflation-adjusted wages of college-educated workers fell 
3.1 percent between 1987 and 1991, with male college-edu cated workers experiencing a 
steeper 4.4 percent decline 



!CLUB 
Thursday is 

___ Night! 
(Rhymes With Pup) 
START THE FIRST FOOTBALL WEEKEND OFF RIGHT! The place to be for the "Class of '93" 
9-2 
must be 21 

said the study released Sunday by the non-profit Economic Pol­icy Institute. 
Overall, white-collar salaries fell by 4.4 percent, it said, adding that a 5.5 percent wage gain registered by female workers in the 1980s has eroded by 2.8 percent since 1989. 
Bernstein. 
The two economists said wage setbacks for white-collar workers and the college edu­cated marked the end of a 1980s boom in finance, retail­ing, banking and real estate. 
Mishel and Bernstein said 
"Unfortunately, this Labor Day we find that the economy is failing to maintain high wages for nearly all American work­ers," economist Lawrence Mishel said in a statement ac­companying the report, which he co-authored with Jared that the recent recession bore a distinctly white-collar stamp: a greater rise in unemployment among white-collar workers than among their blue-collar counterparts. Declines in in­come were most severe among upper-middle-class families. 

HAPPY 50th BIRTHDAY 

Saint Mary's College 
Professor 
SEPT. 8,1992 
.-------------~-------------~-----~ 
page 6 The Observer Tuesday, September 8,1992 

\fou k110w, it.f S"o ridiculouf, Ifl don't call rny parent) every ~unday at exact~ s.o'clock, the~ thihk I was kidl\apped by ahen f. or ~otnething. Anyway, Ohe Su11day me ahd M k we decide to -take-off afld checkout th!tcify. )o we're hang1i1~ out and I look. a+ t'Y\Y watch. 5 o'clocl\. Al~19ht, )o rny call1h9 
card and I head dow" to +he local poof hall. 
(Which I happen to know haJ apayphohe) And I te II the folks the MartianJ Set'ld 
-their beft.'' 

·.. ·,, ·· ·. o matter where you happen to be, the 
for another. .·; ·.. ·,__ AT&T Calling Card can take you home. If you get your Calling Card now, your first · · It's also the least expensive way to call will be free:* And you'll become a member of call state-to-state on AT&T, when you can't dial AT&T Student Saver Plus, a program of products direct. With the new AT&T Call and Save Plan, and services that saves students time and money. you'll get special discounts on AT&T Calling Card calls: All of which makes the AT&T Calling Card out of And once you have your card, you'll never need to apply this world. 
1b get an A'OO' Calling Card for off-campus calling, call1800 654-0471 Ext. 850. 
CI9')2AlliF.'r.odinaiCC.,....t..._all_800.......,bcloulls.''lbu11 ...... ..,.1lAlliTlD.C<rtl-..,.......,!l.U...,<i<>nlordin<t-dialol,"""--•ml-allqbuol..,_ 
-6/8f1L lbu mold 10.,.. or"-,..,_ depeodina on..,."'"""",... all o&r Umiat 10""-p<r ....._ 


~---------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 8,1992 The Observer 
: University of Notre Dame : : International Study Program :


Senior Meeting 
: at : : NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA ! 
• 

Spend a Semester Studying the Pacific Rim in Fremantle
September 8th at 7:30 p.m. 
INFORMATION MEETING
in 

Tuesday, September 8, 1992 122 Hayes-Healy

Cushing Auditorium 
4:30P.M. 
Sophomores in Colleges of Arts and Letters : And Business Administration Are Welcome!: 
ELECTION '92 

Clinton embraces middle class 
INDEPENDENCE, Mo. (AP) ­Bill Clinton offered himself Monday as a true champion of the middle class and its values, framing his Labor Day cam­paign send-off as "the begin­ning of the end of George Bush's presidency of broken promises." 
"If you give me a chance at the end of the Cold War, I will do what Harry Truman did at the end of World War II: more opportunity, more responsibil­ity, an America strong at home as well as strong abroad," the Democratic nominee told a rally in Truman's hometown. 
"We are running on vision and hope and we are going to do what Harry Truman did for the next 57 days: Go across the country, give them hell and make America what it ought to be again." 
In a speech cut short when ominous thunder gave way to a downpour, Clinton struck a combative, populist tone, using the ceremonial Labor Day campaign kickoff to frame his contest with Bush as the future against the past, a candidate with a dynamic plan to revive the economy for all Americans against a president resolute in defending the rich and the status quo. 


Share 

a LittIe 
Happl• ness 

Become A Big Brother or Big Sister Volunteer 
Orientation Meeting Wednesday, September 9, 7:00,8:00 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
•A 

United Way 

When collecting signatures, thA first words out of the




ND PRE-LAW SOCIETY 

At stake, Clinton said, was nothing less than the economic future of the middle class that Truman's programs fathered. 
"On Labor Day in Harry Truman's hometown, it is time for us as Americans to reaffirm who we are and to remember who George Bush is," said Clinton, who got drenched as he worked the crowd after his speech. "Harry Truman woke up every day dedicated to doing right by people who work hard, raise their kids, pay their taxes and play by the rules. Harry Truman did not wake up every morning wondering how to one more time lower taxes on mil­lionaires." 
Independence and Truman were Clinton's chosen symbols for the fight for what he calls to avoid being drafted. Nor had he been proven inaccurate, Clinton said. 

He then called on journalists 
ing new information on whether Bush supported "illegal conduct" during the '·''·''""'"'.,., Reagan administration's arms­
for-hostages dealings with Iran. 
particularly here in Midwest the "forgotten middle class...
and border states that both campaigns believe will swing the election. 
Later, at a riverfront labor rally in Cincinnati just across the Ohio River from Kentucky, Clinton said "jobs in America and growth at home" would anchor his economic plan. He won rousing applause when he promised a program guaran­teeing college aid in return for later payroll deductions or pub­lic service. 
"They will try to make you afraid of change," Democratic vice presidential nominee AI Gore said in introducing Clin­ton, praising his economic de­velopment record in Arkansas while warning of heated Repub­lican attacks to come. 
As he offered his Labor Day assessment of the stakes and 
again faced questions from re­porters about an issue that has dogged him since the early primary season: his Vietnam draft status. 
Clinton said that while some 
hill of beans" had come out in recent weeks, he had not changed his story about how he opposed the war and briefly 

rl~~~lllillillnii~J!!I!rlllilij 
PHOENIX (AP) -Thirteen­year-old Emily Pullen says she plans to vote for Bill Clinton this November. 
She's one of about 1 million kids in 11 states who are ex­pected to cast ballots alongside their parents in a mock election organized by Kids Voting USA. 
"I think it is a real privilege to be able to vote," says Pullen, an eighth-grader at Andersen Junior High School in Chandler, Ariz. "I think I have an impact now. I can encourage adults that I know to vote." 
Kids Voting USA is a non­profit, non-partisan group that works to encourage voter par­ticipation, said the programs' president and executive direc­tor, Marilyn Evans. In addition to organizing the youth elec­tion, the group provides cur­riculum guides on politics for teachers in grades kindergarten through high school. 
There's plenty of homework so students will get their par­ents involved. And when chil­dren attend the mock election, an adult must accompany them. Kid Voting organizers say they're also trying to increase adult voter turnout. 
In Arizona areas that had Kids Voting, voter turnout in­creased 6 percent from 1986 to 1990, the group said. 
Kids Voting also has affected daily student life at some schools where the program is taught. 
Student elections at Andersen Junior High have gone beyond the usual popularity contest. 
Students must register to vote, collect petition signatures to run and face recalls if they don't satisfy their constituents. 
mouths out of candidates are "Are you a registered voter?" said Terry Williams, head of Andersen's social studies de­partment. 
"They know that the only people who really count are those who vote," he said. 
Arizona, Alaska, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, North Carolina, Ohio, South Dakota and Tennessee will participate this year, Evans said. 
Students in kindergarten through 12th grade at partici­pating schools receive between six and 12 hours of Kids Voting curriculum. Then they can vote alongside adults during state and national elections in booths set up by Kids Voting staff. 
The results of the mock elec­tion are announced. 
Pullen says she'll be at the polls in November and will re­mind all of the registered voters she knows to rio the same. 
r---------~~:---------------committed to an ROTC program I Etif(irie/ 

-~---~---~-~~­



Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, September 8, 1992 
The Observer P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........ Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager .............. Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged.  
 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student government welcomes ND students 
Dear Editor: for those of you who may not 
Molly and I welcome all of the know, the FRED line provides new and returning students of the time schedule for Weekend Notre Dame! We at student Wheels, a transportation ser­government are off and running vice for students returning from in our efforts to make this year off-campus. a productive and meaningful We welcome any input and one. will follow up on all suggestions 
We will keep you informed of made. new projects and ways to get On another front, Lynn involved via the Student Friedewald and the rest of her Government newsletter, The committee are hard at work at Voice. preparing a follow-up report to 
Student 0overnment and the Board of Trustees regarding CAUSA (Cuban-American Union the quality of un.dergraduate of Student Advocates) are education. Since this issue is working together to raise important to all of us, we money for the victims of Hurri­welcome any suggestions you cane Andrew in southern have as to the direction and/or Florida and Louisiana. Dona­substance of our report. tions can be made payable to Student Government will also "Catholic Charities," with be holding a student voter reg­booths set up in LaFortune and istration drive for the upcoming both dining halls. November elections. The drive 
Hopefully, we can impact the will be held between Monday, many houseless families by September 14, and Thursday, extending our support in their September 17, with sign-ups in time of need. both dining halls and in LaFor­
S.U.B. (Student Union Board) tune. is sponsoring They Might Be Any questions you have can Giants in concert in Stepan be directed to political Center on Thursday, Sept. 10. awareness commissioner, Chris
-
Also, Fred Barnes and Jack Setti at 239-7668. Germond, both of McLaughlin These are just a few of the Group fame, will be on campus many projects we have started. on October 7 for a mock presi­As always, your participation is dential debate. what makes Student Govern­
Programming will continue ment work, so we encourage 
throughout the year with you to stop by our offices on the 
concerts, lectures, and special second floor of LaFortune. 
events look for more Again, all of us at student 
information in the newsletter. government send our best 
We are exploring new ways to wishes for a great year! improve the FRED line (283-Greg Butrus 3733), a telephone service Student Body President where students can ask ques­Molly O'Neill tions and provide input to stu­Student Body Vice President dent government. In addition, Sept. 5, 1992 
DOONESBURY 
'Fear and ignorance' prevail, vandals fail artist's ink blot test 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in re­sponse to an act of vandalism that occurred to works of sculpture by Marcia Kaplan, a Chicago artist, on the grounds of Saint Mary's College late last Thursday night. 
Apparently, some individuals took offense to these large biomorphic, abstract forms made from fiberglass and resin. Some people felt offended by the content which they felt made references to sex organs. 
The funny thing, though, is that this supposed "offensive content" which they assumed was implicit was simply the stirrings of active imaginations. 
It is as silly as being offended by the ink blot tests developed by Rorschach. What one sees is subjective and can often be telling about the viewer. A Rorschach test is defined by Websters New Collegiate Dictionary as "a psychological test in which a subject is called upon to interpret what he [she] sees in different ink blot designs, for analyzing intel­lectual and emotional pro­cesses, personality, response to environment, etc." 
The individuals who took part in this vandalism cut off other forms of communication and protest, such as petitions which were said to have been circulat­ing. 
The vandals behaved cowardly in the dark and did irreparable damage to one of Kaplan's four pieces on the grounds. 
I feel that those involved acted cowardly and ignorantly. It has become clear through their actions that ignorance is not bliss but rather it is some­thing to fear. 
The ignorance of these vandals caused them to be afraid of these artworks. Because they didn't understand them, they acted to censor them rather than to inquire about and learn from them. 
They didn't even wait to hear the artist lecture about her work. I am embarrassed that such an act of ignorant cow­ardice would happen in an at­mosphere meant for education and the opening of young minds. 
In summary, ignorance is a thing which causes some to be afraid because of their own ig­norance, and causes others to fear the ignorance which sur­rounds them. In any case, however, ignorance is never bliss. 
Julie Buckley Senior Art Major Saint Mary's College 


Accent 
Tuesday, September, 8 1992 


Reaching Abroad 
international business internships offer students culture, experience 
BY JOHN FISCHER  The goal of the program is to  "In America, people of our  things in this world is  The purpose of the program,  
Accent Writer  be able to eventually send  age go out and party for fun,"  communication. The reason  according to Kiel, is to give  
students to every continent.  he said. "In Singapore, they  that I became interested in the  students both business and  
This goal could be realized as  sang, played cards, and told  council's internships is to try to  international experience.  
Some Notre Dame students  early as next summer, as  stories for fun instead of  broaden communication, which  "Today, the international  
worked in construction this  delegations went this past  partying. I can't describe the  is what I see as the result of my  experience is invaluable in  
summer.  summer to South America and  diversity of cultures I saw."  teachings in Poland," said  business," he said.  
Others went skydiving for  South Africa. Programs are  Junior Joe Rogers was one of  Rogers.  
charity in Moscow.  already in place North America,  the students who participated in  Rogers taught at Jagiellonian  The native Soviets made the  
The former job could be  Europe, Asia, and Australia, he  the Council's internship in  University for about three hours  experience memorable,  
acquired courtesy of condo  said.  Poland. Rogers taught  a day for the full twenty three  Padinske said.  
developers anywhere, but the  Students have interned with a  fundamental economics and  days of the program. The  
latter was only available as part  variety of companies, including  English in the Polish private  University had an agreement  "Moscow is such an incredible  
of an internship sponsored by  JP Morgan in Geneva, the  sector. His students included  with the internship program  place, " he said. "The people  
the Notre Dame Council on  United States Olympic  professors, lawyers, architects,  that let the student teachers use  there really seem to like  
International Business  Committee in Barcelona,  and other representatives of the  their facilities for teaching in  Americans. It was such a  
Development.  Honeywell in Moscow, and the  professional world.  the mornings and then take  different atmosphere, but I  
Moscow was one of many  United States embassies in  "One of the most important  classes there in the afternoon.  can't wait to go back there."  
spots around the globe which  Paris and Barcelona. Students  
hosted students in internships  also taught at an English school  
with various multinational and  in Poland and worked for the  
local businesses. Other  Polish Central Bank.  
locations included Japan,  Moscow also played host to a  
Estonia, Poland, and Singapore.  student writing for a Russian  
The Council on International  business journal, according to  
Business Development, advised  Ed Padinske, who worked at  
by Father Ernest Bartell, C.S.C.,  two major English-speaking  
director of the Kellogg Institute  newspapers in that city.  
for International Studies, and  Padinske said that his work at  
led by junior Andrew Kiel,  the paper saw him covering a  
made these experiences  concert in Moscow which  
possible.  included pop singer Boy  
The Summer Intern program,  George. He said that he  
in its second year, sent 20  attended the concert and had  
students overseas, both as  the opportunity to interview  
interns and as delegates  because the music reporter had  
attempting to secure future  broken his leg while skydiving  
internships.  the day before.  
"Within two years we expect  The social aspects of the  
50 people to be able to go," said  internships made for as strong  
Kiel. So far, both delegates and  an experience as the business  
interns have found success.  aspects, Kiel said of his visit to  
This summer's Moscow  Singapore. He said that the  Photo courtesy of Andrew Kiel  
program, for example, was a  cultural differences were  Andrew Kiel, a Notre Dame Junior who interned in Singapore this  summer, enjoys some cultural  
direct result of a delegation sent  immeasurable.  aspects of the country.  

this past spring. 
Sugar, with Bob Mould, mixes old and new 
on Copper Blue, its premiere effortSweet sounding: 
himself still believes any of hisBy ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Copper Blue 
own predictions.
Music Critic 


Sugar 
The sound on Copper Blue is at As guitarist and co-leader of 
once densely noisy and crisply Husker Du, Bob Mould played an 
***112 
poppy. The lead-in to "Changes" integral part in shaping the sonic 
includes a bell-ringing guitar riff
(out of five) 
over a bouncy bass line, while Boston, making distortion and "Hoover Dam" includes backwards attacks of bands from Seattle to 
lover. Despite the theme of the volume the rule rather than the song, Mould seems to continue to tape reminiscent of Husker Du's 
exception. wonder about the future of the "Dreams Reoccuring," albeit at a 
Husker Du's breakup in 1987 set world. much lower volume. Mould free to do his own work. "Tears fill up my eyeslf'm Despite a focus on Mould as the And after two successful solo washed away with sorrow/And front man of Sugar, he is backed albums, he has taken his place in somewhere in my mind// know up by two capable musicians in another power trio, Sugar. there's no tomorrow." he whines. bassist David Barbe and drummer 
Sugar's first album, Copper Blue, While romance is a relatively Malcolm Travis. Barbe, formerly of is an effort much in the tradition of new addition to Mould's thematic Mercyland, and Travis, of the Husker Du's latest work. Pop­catalog, ecological and political Zulus, support Mould's powerful sensible songs coat the album's prognostication have been a topic presence throughout Copper Blue. 
rough edges, which include of his work ever since "Newest But indeed, Sugar is Mould's own Mould's pained whine of a singing Industry" pondered future show. The melodies have the pop voice. American exploitation. Indeed, sensibility Mould has developed 
Lyrically, Mould tackles his usual Black Sheets ofRain was entirely a through his years in Husker Du territory, covering such themes as treatise on environmental and as a solo artist, and the destruction, depression and destruction. grungy sound Mould, Grant Hart devolution. His new-found ability With Copper Blue, Mould has and Greg Norton popularized to write pop songs about abandoned saving the world. But almost ten years ago, though relationships, brought to the with "Fortune Teller," he takes on turned down on Copper Blue, is forefront in 1989 with "See A Little the entire idea of predicting the alive and well with Sugar. Light," is resuscitated with Sugar future. For those ten years, Mould has after being smothered in feedback "Maybe crystal ball is fortune been a defining force in the future 
and noise on Black Sheets ofRain, teller/Maybe cards laid out as of rock music as we know it. While Photo courtesy of Michael Lavine his 1991 solo effort. Copper Blue breaks no new
fortune teller/In the future tense 
(Left to right) David Barbe, Bob Mould, and Malcolm_Jarvis One of the strongest tracks on ground, it showcases Mould doing
as past/And fortune present here comprise Sugar, whose album, Copper Blue, has just the album, "If I Can't Change Your at last," Mould sings, leaving the what he does better than anyone come out. Mind" pleads for the return of a listener wondering whether Mould else. 

The Observer Tuesday, September 8, 1992
page 10 


Cowboys pound Super Bowl-champ 'Skins 
IRVING, Texas (AP) -The Washington Redskins may be the Super Bowl champions in 49 states. 
Not in Texas. 
With Emmitt Smith rushing for 139 yards on 26 carries; Kelvin Martin returning a punt 79 yards for a touchdown and Troy Aikman throwing for 216 yards and a TD, the Dallas Cowboys established themselves as Super Bowl contenders in their own right by opening the season with a 23-10 win over the Redskins on Monday night. 
It was Dallas' third win over Washington in their last four meetings. Two of the last three losses by the Redskins, 17-2 in their march to the NFL title last season, have been to Dallas. One of those victories, 24-21 in Washington last season, ended the Redskins' 11-0 run and their bid for an unbeaten sea­

son. 

This one was by far the most dominant -the Redskins didn't have a play that gained as much as a yard until a 3-yard run by Earnest Byner with 3:46 left in the first period and didn't get its first first down until 1:30 into the second period. 
By then Dallas was ahead 9-0 on a punt blocked out of the end zone for a safety by Issiac Holt and a 5-yard TD run by Smith at the end of an 84-yard drive on the following series. 
In fact, Washington really was in the game for just 3 1/2 min­utes in the second quarter, when it cut the deficit to 9-7 on a touchdown created by an in­terception that wouldn't have been one last year. 
Replays clearly showed that Washington's Martin Mayhew dropped the ball on the play and was touched by Alvin Harper before he ran 25 yards up the field, but official review by replay has been abolished this season. Three plays after the interception, Mark Rypien hit Gary Clark with a 30-yard TD pass that put the Redskins briefly back in the game. 
It hardly mattered. 
The Cowboys made it 16-7 with 1:02 left in the half on a 26-yard pass from Aikman to 6­foot-3 Alvin Harper, who used his height advantage to leap over 5-8 Darrell Green. The advantage was exploited by both Harper and Michael Irvin all night. The touchdown came on a drive that covered 67 yards in just 35 seconds after Mike Saxon had pinned the Redskins at their own 1 with a 54-yard punt. 

Then, with 6:42 left in the third quarter, Martin fielded Kelly Goodburn's punt and burst nearly untouched through a wall of Redskins and sailed 79 yards for a touchdown. It was his second punt return for a TD in the last three regular-season games -he had one for 85 yards in Philadelphi.a in the next-to-the last game last year. 
Chip Lohmiller's 49-yard field goal 1:22 into the fourth period made it 23-10. 
Rypien was 20 of 38 for 208 yards, many of them late in the game and hardly looked the part of last year's Super Bowl MVP. He fumbled a snap and lost it and fumbled another time when he was sacked by Charles Haley, just obtained from San Francisco. 
He also underthrew a wide­open Art Monk on one play and overthrew an open Ricky Sanders on another. 
The crowd of 63,538 also helped. 
Haley's sack came on a late snap when Rypien tried to call an automatic over the crowd noise and the safety on Washington's first possession came after losses of 14 yards in two plays in which the Redskins had trouble getting off the snap because of the noise. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 

charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
..___N_O_T_IC_E_s_  _,JII"'"T~~~'~!Lo~vc" I  HELP HELP HELP! I NEED A BOOK OF STUDENT TICKETS -for my over the hill  HELP!\ I Need 4-5 GAs for Nov. 7 BC game. Please call x3799. Thanks.  PLEASE HELP! ALUMNUS SEEKS GA'S TO MICHIGAN. CALL BILL AT 614­885-4616 AND I WILL CALL YOU  SELLING MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS BOOKLET (9-11) 27119 98  
For more information and  TWO SEMESTERS $99.95, ONE  Alumni Brother.  WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR  BACK. THANK YOU!  
assistance regarding the  SEMESTER 69.95. 13" COLOR,  If you want to sell yours,  GOOD ND\MICHIGAN GA's  Emergency at horne. Must sell 2  
investigation of financing, business  TWO SEMESTERS 69.95, ONE  CALL BLAS AT X2645.  2773097  09/09  Michigan GA's. Best offer. Call  
opportunities and work-at-home  SEMESTER 49.95. DELIVERY  2 Sid Booklets for sale. Best offer.  Tom x1114.  
opportunities, THE OI;!SERVER  FREE.  COLLEGIATE RENTALS,  Will give First Born and CASH  277-4597 after 7:00 pm  
urges its readers to contact the  272-5959  for MICH Tix!l!  Even more for  
Better Business Bureau of  will trade 2 STAN GA for 2 PSU  SEASON TIX!!!  KAY x3489  Need Purdue tix  MICH TIX For Sale  
Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED  GA or STD x1645  I have U2 tix & am willing to deal  Call271 1514  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ 89 MERCEDES......... $200  HELP!  x1884  
4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­ 86 VW.......................... $ 50  Badly need 2 student or GA tickets  NEED 2-10 STANFORD GA'S  
9121 or 800-439-5313.  87 MERCEDES .......... $100  to Michigan. Will pay good money.  CALL JOE X 1560  Need STANFORD GA's or STD's  
65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50  x2714.  Call Brian 273-0967  MARRIED STUDENT TIX BOOK  
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657  Choose from thousands starting  ND Alum needs 2 reasonably priced  
$25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour  I desperately need 1 Michigan  Michigan tix. Please call (408)492­ Will trade 2 Michigan GAs for 2  FOR SALE  BOB 287-9118  
USED TEXTBOOKS CHEAP!!  Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright  GA for someone coming all the  0660 X248 or (415)579-1432.  Penn State GAs. Call (804) 431·  
BUY 'EM NOW 10-5:30 everyday  #IN11KJC.  way from California to see the  4677, before 9Pm EST.  Bill  NO ID REQUIRED  
Pandora's Books 808 Howard  game.  Please call Maria at  N.D. ALUM NEEDS 4 MICH GA'S.  NO ID REQUIRED  
3 blks. from campus 233-2342  X 2126 or 3219.  WILLING TO PAY OR TRADE ANY  HAVE 2 STANFORD GA'S NEED  
OTHER HOME GAME GA'S.  TIX FOR BOSTON COLLEGE .  
....***Appalachian Seminar*'******* Take part in an extraordinary  SR TIX APPLICATION FOR SALE  !!!!!1!!!!!!1!!11111111!!11111!1!!1!11!1!1111!!!!!1!11!11 !I!  PLEASE CALL (312) 327-9853 ASK FOR PAUL OR LEAVE A  CALL WENDY X1264  PERSONAL  
opportunity to learn about yourself  45 YARD LINE BEST OFFER  MESSAGE.  NEED BYU TIX! CALL WENDY  
in the Appalachian region of  CALL MARTY X1165  I have MARRIED student tix book  X1264  $$$MICHIGAN$$$  
Kentucky and West Virginia over  Need to sell Marty 1165  LOTS of $$$!!1!1  WILL TRADE RESV. AT SB  
your fall break.  I want TICKET BOOKLETS!  LOOKING TO TRADE 2  HOLIDAY  
Applications now available at the  !!!!!1!!!!1!11!!!!!1!11!!11!1111!!!!!!!!1!111111111!11!!1  call #1756  STANFORD GA's FOR 2 BC GA's.  INN ON 9/11 & 9/12 FOR 2 GA'S.  
esc.  *********U2 Tickets***'*******  1111  '  CALL JOHN at  X3526.  CALL 283-2454.  
Important information meeting on  3 tix for September 15 in Chicago  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
September 8.  for sale.  ·  11!!1!!1!!!!!1!1!!1!!!!111111111!1!!111!!111!11!!!!1!!!!1  Hey Niff  
Call Gabrielle at x3023.  Ill  I need Michigan student tickets and  MICHIGAN TIX needed  
FREE ROOM AND KITCHEN  2 BYU GA's.  GA's or Student  JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!!  
PRIVILEGES, 1 mile from campus for mature ND/SMC male or female  TICKETS  I have MARRIED student tix book Need to sell Marty 1165  Call Molly 284-4377  Call Bill-1104  THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS  
in exchange tor assisting elderly  Need 4 Perdue GA's  Sept. 10  at  Stepan  8:00p.m.  
gentleman during the nights.  PLEASE HELP:  1!1!11111!1!!!!1!1111!111111!1111!111!1!11!11!!!!!!!!!!!1  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Have Stanford GA's to trade +$$  Tix on sale at Lafortune Info desk.  
References needed. Call Sandy at  My dad would like to see one  !!!!  John  x1166  $8 students -$1 :~ Gen. Public  
esc x5319 if interested in more  Michigan game before I graduate  hey!  
details.  and need tickets.  ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY  i need 3 STANFORD g.a.'sl  • NEED MICHIGAN TIC •  MARGE  
ILOST & FOUND I  Call Mike 283-1161 I NEED ND FOOTBALL  HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338.  i have buck$! call katie x4907  NAVEL FUZZ or$ for ONE MICH TIC Call1790  To the Dillon Frosh who never returned perfume from scavenger  
TICKETS.272-6306  TICKET$$ TICKET$$ TICKETS$$  FOUR FRIENDS OF A PLAYER ON  hunt toPE: I know where you live.  
LOST: silver ring in Hayes Healey  $$$1  DEPERATELY  N E E D  THE '88 TEAM NEED TIX FOR  Be afraid.  
1st floor bathroom. Sentimental  OKAY, I'M BEGGING ... My parents  6  G. A. 's  FOR  MICHIGAN$$$  MICHIGAN GAME.  THEY REALLY  2 MARRIED stud tix bks 4 sale  
value -please call Laura 273  will pay big for Mich. tickets! $$$  please, please, please, please  WANT THE TIX BAD.  @287-2528 after  noon  CONGRATULATIONS  
8377.  Call#4419.  CALL X2454  CALL 1075 AND ASK FOR MARK  Kelly and Jim  
WANTED  I  Have 4 Penn St. GA Will trade for 4 Mich GA  Will pay big bucks for ND -MICH G.A. tix. Call Joe @ 287-4561.  ORQUAALUDE DESPARATELY NEED 3 MICH TIX.  HELP!!! NEED 2 MICHIGAN GA's. TIM x2763.  August 29, 1992 Happiness, love and fat dogs always!!!  
Call Bo at 3502  WILL PAY TOP$. KJ X1302  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
NEEDED BYU and Michigan GA's.  HAVE 2 NORTHWEST GA's  ·T·N·D·  
Please call 284-4308.  WANTED: GA'S/STUDENT TIX  NEED  MICH and/or  WANTED:  2 U2 9/16 4sale -BILL X2187  TROOP NOTRE DAME  
FOR ANY/ALL HOME GAMES­ WHOLE STUD.  BOOKS  MICH. AND PURDUE TIX. CALL  
EXTERIOR PAINTERS  MICH. A MUST! ALUMNI IN  288-1 027  -MARK  MIKE @1151 & LEAVE MSGE.  ••MICH TIX CHEAp•• MIKE 1594  The organizational meeting  
Experienced Student Painters  DESPERATE NEED!! 708-843­ scheduled for Thurs. Sep. 10  
needed to paint South Bend area  6947.  Wanted: MICH & PURD TIX. Call  9:00 p.m. at rm. 219 Rockne  
homes.  Full or Part Time.  WANT TO MAKE A BUCK?  Mike@ 1151 & Leave Msg.  has been changed to the  
AMERICA'S COLLEGE PAINTERS  $$ Need Mich Tic $$ GA or Student  I REALLY NEED MICH. TICKETS!  Notre Dame Room ·· 2nd floor  
1 (800)626-6267  -Name Your Price  WILL PUT DEPOSIT ON TICKET  I NEED TWO MICHIGAN TIX  I have two Mich studs ...... want 'em?  Lafortune  
"painting America's homes coast to  Call Jim 273-2969  BOOK. CALL JON DEBARTOLO  STEVE 277-8178  
coast"  AT x3587.  
$$NEED 4 MICH GAs BADLY$$  I need 2 GA's for both B.C. and  Tim x3382  
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our  CALL AMY x2609  Penn State. 283-4607.  ARTS AND LETTERS BUSINESS  
circulars! ... Begin NOWI ... FREE  HELP\! Need 1 STAN GA  SOCIETY-ORGANIZATIONAL  
packet! SEYS, Dept. "100, Box  NEED PENN ST. TIX. GA'S ONLY.  Call Scott at x4243  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  MEETING-ALL ARE WELCOME TO  
4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000.  234-8306 OR 800-323-7687.  Good price  Needed:  2 Michigan  ATTEND.  WED. AT 6:30 IN THE  
I NEED MICHIGAN STUDENT  4 BC  GA's  NOTRE DAME ROOM, 2ND  
FOR RENT  N.D. ALUM FROM MEXICO RETURNING FOR MICH GAME.  PLEASE PLEASE. I NEED MICH. GA'S.  TICKETS and BYU GA's. If you have some you are willing to  Joe #1112  FLOOR LAFORTUNE.  
NEEDS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL  CALL SHIRLEY AT 239-5303  sell please call Molly 284-4377  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  MIMS IS COOL  
233-1296.  BEFORE4 PM,  A rich old man will pay serious cash  Sorry, Mims. They rejected my  
SHARP RIVERFRONT HOME­ OR 272-3753 AFTER 5.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  for 2 Mich. G.A.'s. Call Chris  column. Is this close enough?  
FOOTBALL WKNDS/SHORT TERM  FOR SALE: 4 U2 TICS SEPT 16  SCALPERS NEED NOT CALL  x1624  
RENTALS. ALSO APT. &  CHICAGO MIKE #1672  2 MICHIGAN GAs available. Trade  STudent tix for sale call--283-17 48  
BEDROOMS.257-9101.  NEED TIX TO ND·MICH  x3373  for PENN ST or best$ offer 614­ Wealthy alum will trade job and both  
885-8196  children for Michigan ticket...  What's up Emily!  
BED "N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Selling student ticket book w"h all  call Tom @289-3887  lfs ordonjay your oyfriendbay.  
219·291-7153  home games (section 30 seats\)  I have U2 (Chi) tickets. I want PSU  ********..U2 TICKETS*'*•..•******  Kim says whats up also.  
Make offer: 287-6355  tickets, TRADE?  3 U2 tix tor the September 15 show  --Robopound rules!llllll!lllll  
Dan x1374.  in Chicago for sale.  stud. tkts. FOR SALEII!  ExCuse Me While I light My sPiff  
UNIQUE B & B COUNTRY  NEED 2 MICH. GA'S WILL BUY,  Call Gabrielle at x3023.  best offer. call #1756  00 God I got to take a liFt, From  
SETIING. MINUTES FROM ND  OR TRADE FOR PURDUE, BYU,  DESPERADO NEEDS Ml TICKET  REality I jUst CaN Drift. That why  
NEAR GRANGER.  CALL 616·663·  BOST. COLL OR PENN ST.  GA'S.  JUST ONEil Student or GA.  Will pay BIG BUCKS for 2 MICH  I NEED 1 MICH. STUD. TICKET  I'm Staying in this RiFt.  
8308.  232·0817  Call 11m x4116  GA's. Call STEVE 289·2683  CALL VINCE 272-8503  ·-Chris Carrigan is a Qu"'er  

Tuesday, September 8, 1992 The Observer page 11 

charge for now. ing fired. Reinsdorf said his Giles said he believed the The move against Vincent had Among the possibilites are lawyers had the opposite view, group against Vincent would its roots in the collective bar­
Fay 
former AL president Lee and it seemed likely that disen­have had enough votes for a fir­gaining negotiations of 1990. MacPhail, Democratic National chanted owners would have ing, even if it would have Vincent entered the talks with
continued from page 16 
Committee chairman Ron attempted a firing this week in sparked a court fight. the Major League Baseball Brown, the current league St. Louis. '!That would have not been Players Association only withmember executive council in presidents and former Montreal Vincent had threatened to pretty. It would not have been permission from Selig, chair­charge of baseball. The council Expos executive John McHale. continue in office "until such good for baseball," Giles said. man of the Player Relationsis made up of American League "I doubt anybody will be given time as the highest court of this "It's not a pleasant thing that's Committee, but Selig and
president Bobby Brown, 
the title of commissioner, but land tells me otherwise," but been happening and to go fur­Reinsdorf later began to feelNational League president Bill we'll see," Reinsdorf said when that view changed after the ther would have been even that the interjection weakenedWhite and eight owners: Jackie asked what would happen in owners' vote. worse." management's bargaining po­
Autry of California, Bill 
the near-term. "The council "What would that accom­The executive council is to ap­sition with the union. 
Bartholomay of Atlanta, 
consists of 10 very able people. plish?" he said of a legal battle. point this week a committee Owners became slightly moreDouglas Danforth of Pittsburgh, We'll see what they want to do." "What will the fight have been that will examine restructuring disenchanted in 1991 whenEli Jacobs of Baltimore, Fred MacPhail, for his part, said no worth if, 14 months from now, the commissioner's office. Vincent gave AL teams $42
Kuhlmann of St. Louis, Carl 
one has talked to him about the prior to electing a new com­Vincent said he hoped owners million of the NL's $190 millionPohlad of Minnesota, Haywood job and added, "I wouldn't want missioner, the owners change would not lessen the commis­in expansion money, or a total
Sullivan of Boston and Tom 
to." the Major League Agreement to sioner's powers."I can only of $3 million for each AL team.
Werner of San Diego. 
Vincent, elected on Sept. 13, create a 'figurehead' commis­hope owners realize that a AL owners felt the money
Philadelphia Phillies owner 
1989, to a term through March sioner? This is certainly the strong commissioner, a person wasn't worth giving up threeBill Giles said the executive 31, 1994, had argued that the goal of some. And while it is of experience and stature in the players in the expansion draft. 
council would meet by tele­Major League Agreement, bad for baseball, I cannot pre­community, is integral to base­Opposition to Vincent ap­phone Tuesday and would meet which governs baseball, pre­vent that change.... I cannot ball," Vincent wrote. "I hope peared to wane in June whenin person Wednesday in St. 
vents a commissioner from be-govern as commissioner with­they learn this lesson before too other owners failed to supportLouis to discuss whom to put in out the consent of owners to be much damage is done to the Selig and Reinsdorf in their re­governed. I do not believe that game, to the players, umpires quest that the commissioner consent is now available to me." and others who work in the give up his "best interests" 
Reinsdorf has said he would game, and most importantly, to power over collective bargain­like to see the office restruc­the fans." ing. tured to make it a chief execu­Vincent's opponents lauded tive officer reporting to the 28 the resignation and tried to look A month later, however, the owners as a board of directors. ahead. move to oust Vincent started 
"I respect Fay's decision to anew when he overrode the NL step aside" Autry said. "For all "He just didn't have that abil­constitution in July and ordered of us associated with baseball, ity to address the problems and realignment, sending the we must now strive to find solu­the leadership ability to accom­Chicago Cubs and St. Louis tions to the problems that con­plish it," Minnesota Twins Cardinals to the NL West and front us." owner Carl Pohlad said. the Atlanta Braves and 
"Fay Vincent has made a Cincinnati Reds to the NL East. 
The owners opposing Vincent statesmanlike decision and I The Cubs obtained a prelimi­met by telephone conference respect him for that," Selig said. nary injunction in federal court call after the resignation was "In the best interest of baseball, blocking the move, and the announced and decided not to it is important that we now Tribune Co. became a powerful continue their special major focus our energies and efforts force in the anti-Vincent league meeting on Vincent, on the myriad of significant movement. The commissioner which had been scheduled to issues confronting the game." had been seeking congressional resume Wednesday in St. Louis. Baltimore Orioles owner Eli legislation that would lessen the Instead, the leagues will Jacobs supported Vincent until influence of superstations. conduct their scheduled quar­the end. terly meetings Wednesday, "He accepted the job as The Tribune Co., which owns followed by the regular joint commissioner of baseball in a the Cubs, will have the televi­major league meeting Thursday. most difficult time," Jacobs sion rights to seven teams on its 
"We've been through some said. "While in office, he has stations next season: Cubs and turbulent times and I hope we been an unselfish decision­White Sox (WGN), Los Angeles can resolve it in a peaceful way maker, not once failing to act in Dodgers and California Angels and get back to playing base­the best interests of baseball .... (KTLA), New York Yankees ball," Brown said when con­I am disappointed. Baseball and (WPIX), Philadelphia Phillies tacted at the U.S. Open tennis its fans have lost a great (WPHL) and Colorado Rockies tournament. friend." (KWGN). 

TheMacintoshStudentAid Package 
Get over 1400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the  aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 ­ and only at  
Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever.  your authorized Apple campus reseller.  
And ifyou are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for  
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student  
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 Math/Computer Building239-7477  

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc: Apple, the Apple logo. and Macintosh are registered U'lldem2rt<s ofApple Computer, Inc. Classic is aregistered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. Powerllook is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is atrademark ri Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecTen-developed by Houghton Mifflin Company, publisher ofThe American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's II: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by 1.anguat1e Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResumeWriter is atr:ldemark ofBoo!ware Software Company, Inc. All produa names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Madnt06h PowerBook 145 4/40 configumion only. All qualifying rompurers come preloaded with software and electronic ver>ions riinstruaions. Disks and printed manuals are 001 included in this offer. 
--------~----­
page 12 The Observer Tuesday, September 8, 1992 
Brewers win 2-0; Yount nears 2000 
CHICAGO (AP) -Chicago Cubs pitcher Mike Harkey is out for the season after injuring his knee, apparently while clowning during warmups. 
"It's real, real severe," said Cubs manager Jim Lefebvre. "He's surely done for the year and will probably have surgery (today). It's devastation to us." 
Witnesses said Harkey stum­bled and fell on the steps into the Cubs dugout, but Lefebvre said the injury occurred earlier. 
"They tell me he was running wind sprints and people in the crowd were yelling to him. He got caught up in it. He was just playing. He did a cartwheel," Lefebvre said. 
Harkey was admitted to Northwestern Memorial Hospital. 

Harkey, unbeaten in four de­cisions, had been scheduled to pitch Tuesday night when the Cubs visit the Pittsburgh Pirates. Shawn Boskie (5-7) will take his place. 
A highly touted rookie in 1991, Harkey missed almost all of the season with a shoulder injury. He underwent surgery May 2, 1991, and did not re­turn to action until July 20 of this year. 
In seven games this year, Harkey worked 38 innings, al­lowed 34 hits, struck out 21 and walked 15. He had a 1.89 earned run average. 
Study Abroad in Ireland! 

Information Session 
SMC Wed. Sept. 9 
7p.m. Chameleon Room, Haggar College Center, 
Saint Mary's College campus 
Everyone is welcome. 
Twins 4, Mariners 2 
MINNEAPOLIS -Gene Larkin made up for a costly error with a two-run homer and a two-run double as Minnesota snapped a three-game losing streak. 
Larkin's bases-loaded, one-out double off the right-field fence broke a 2-2 tie and made a winner Scott Erickson (11-10). 
Erickson struggled in the early innings, twice working out of bases-loaded, one-out jams by inducing double-play grounders. Rick Aguilera got the final four outs for his 37th save. 
Tim Leary (6-8) held the Twins hitless through 3 2-3 innings but couldn't halt the Mariners' losing streak, which reached five games. 


Red Sox 3, Rangers 0 
ARLINGTON, Texas -Roger Clemens and Nolan Ryan matched each other with three­hit shutouts for seven innings, before rookie John Valentin's RBI double in the eighth sent Boston over Texas. 
Clemens (18-8) gave up three hits in eight innings, and low­ered his league-leading ERA to 
2.18. He struck out nine, in­cluding a streak of seven in a row in the middle innings. He walked three and also threw a pitch that hit major league homer leader Juan Gonzalez, who left the game with a bruised left forearm. 
Ryan (5-9) is winless in his last eight starts, going 0-6 in that span. He allowed two runs on six hits in 8 1-3 innings. He struck out six and walked one. He took himself out of the game with a strained muscle in his lower left back. 
Ryan and Clemens faced off for only the third time. They split a pair of decisions in early 1989. 

Jose Canseco, making his home debut for the Rangers, went 1 for 3 and made a leap­ing catch against the right-field wall. 

Angels 3, Athletics 2 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Rookie Julio Valera again stopped Oakland and the California Angels sent the Athletics to their sixth loss in seven games. 
The A's have scored just 12 runs in seven games since trading Jose Canseco. 
Valera {7-9) is 3-0 with a 1.08 ERA against the A's this season. He gave up one run on five hits in six innings. Joe Grabe went 1 2-3 innings for his 20th save. Mike Moore (13-11) allowed three runs and seven hits in six innings. 

Yankees 6, Orioles 2 
BALTIMORE Andy Stankiewicz drew a bases­loaded walk to break a tie in the 13th inning and Bernie Williams hit a three-run triple, lifting the New York Yankees past Baltimore. 
Danny Tartabull opened the 13th with a walk from Alan Mills (9-4) and took third on a single by Mel Hall. After Randy Velarde struck out, Matt Nokes was given an intentional walk to load the bases. 
Mills went to 3-0 on Stankiewicz, then threw a strike before throwing ball four on a close pitch. After Pat Kelly stuck out, Williams cleared the bases with a drive off the right­field fence. Rich Monteleone (6­
2) pitched three innings of one­hit relief. 

continued from page 16 

"I think our depth has been and will continue to be a strength," she observed. "I have been very happy with our play off the bench." 

American Heart Association 


MILWAUKEE (AP) -Robin Yount closed within two hits of 3,000 and Cal Eldred won his sixth straight decision Monday as the Milwaukee Brewers beat the Cleveland Indians 2-0. 
Yount hit a 3-2 pitch through the hole on the right side for a fourth-inning single off Cleveland's Dennis Cook (5-7). Yount grounded to third in the first and lined to center in the sixth. 
Eldred (7-1), who has allowed only two earned runs in his last 44 2-3 innings, gave up only four hits in seven innings. He walked four and struck out three. James Austin pitched the eighth and Doug Henry pitched the ninth for 26th save. 

Greg Vaughn hit his 19th homer in the second. Yount singled in the fourth, stole sec­ond and went to third on a passed ball, scoring on Paul Molitor's single. 

Roger Clemens, here throwing in practice, outdueled Nolan Ryan to win a 3-0 decision over the Rangers, lowering his league-leading ERA. 
Cubs lose Harkey for the season with knee injury 

No Experience Necessary. 
Adworks, Notre Dame's own student-run advertising network, is now hiring for the 1992-93 year. Positions available include: 
•Dorm Liaisons 
•Account Executives •Artists 
·Photographers ·Desk Executives 
All interested should attend an informational meeting on Wednesday, September 9 at 6 PM in the Adworks office. 
301 Lafortune Student Center • 239-6757 
Tuesday, September 8,1992 The Observer page 13 
Cardinals beat Expos 8-7 on tenth-inning home run 
MONTREAL (AP) -Bernard Gilkey's solo homer leading off the 1Oth inning gave the St. Louis Cardinals an 8-7 victory over the Montreal Expos on Monday. 
The Expos, who have lost three straight, remained four games behind Pittsburgh in the NL East. 
Gilkey lined a 2-0 pitch from John Wetteland (3-4) over the left-field fence for his fifth homer of the season. 
Bryn Smith (1-0) pitched one inning for the win and Lee Smith pitched the 1Oth for his 38th save. 
The Cardinals tied it in the ninth on an RBI single by pinch­hitter Gerald Perry. 
The Expos scored three runs in the eighth on Tim Laker's RBI groundout, a wild pitch by Todd Worrell that scored Greg Colbrunn, and Marquis Grissom's 13th home run over the wall in left-center field. 
The Cardinals scored one run in each of the first three innings as Montreal starter Mark Gardner was shaky. 
Cubs 6, Pirates 5 

PITTSBURGH -Derrick May hit a three-run homer on re­liever Bob Patterson's first pitch in the 11th inning and Alex Arias went 5 for 5 in his second major league start, leading Chicago over Pittsburgh. 
The Cubs outhit the Pirates 21-10, but were shut out for 7 2-3 innings by four Pittsburgh relievers until May's drive, the second first-pitch homer al­lowed by Patterson in as many apperances. Todd Benzinger hit a grand slam off Patterson in the Pirates' 6-5 come-from­behind victory Friday over Los Angeles. 
Stan Belinda (5-4), who had pitched two scoreless innings, immediately got into trouble in the 11th by allowing singles to 
Ryne  Sandberg  and  Mark  
Grace,  who  had  three hits  
apiece.  

Andre Dawson bounced into a force play before Patterson re­placed Belinda and May hit his seventh homer. 
Paul Assenmacher (4-2) pitched a scoreless lOth for the victory before Bob Scanlan got his 13th save despite allowing run-scoring singles by Jose Lind and John Wehner in the 11th. 
Braves 7, Dodgers 1 
ATLANTA -John Smoltz won for the first time in a month, setting down Los Angeles on three hits over seven innings as Atlanta won its third game in a row. 
The win, only Atlanta's eighth in 18 games, kept the Braves 6 1/2 games ahead of Cincinnati in the National League West. The Reds beat Houston 10-0. 
Smoltz (15-10) was 0-4 in his last five starts with an ERA of 
5.28 before Monday. The win was his first since beating Cincinnati 5-3 on Aug. 6 and the 15 victories is a career-high. 
The right-hander was 14-13 last season and 14-11 in 1990. It was also his first win over Los Angeles since 1990. He had a no-decision earlier this year and was 0-4 in 1991. Smoltz is 4-7 lifetime against the Dodgers. 
Smoltz struck out nine and walked five before leaving for a pinch hitter after seven innings. Mike Stanton piched the eighth and Mark Wholers pitched the ninth, allowing a run. 


SUBWAY's New Six Foot Combo Special is a delicious combination of ham, bologna and salami*, plus generous portions f cheese, lettuce and tomato, all on our own freshly baked bread. This akes it a welcome change from the usual Pizza, Chicken and Burgers. 
MONEY BACK GUARANTEE: 
We're so sure thatyouandyour group will love the Six Foot Combo Special,that we will refwuJ your money ifyou are not completely satisfied. 

Great for Tailgate and After-Game Parties! 
For more information, call the SUBWAY location nearest you: 
SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 
US 31 N. (North Village Mall)/277-1024 
115 W. Washington (Downtown)/289-1288 

*All Twlrey Based 

SPORTS BRIEFS 

• 

two runs as the New York Mets defeated Philadelphia. 
Philadelphia outhit the Mets 12-6. The Phillies have lost three in a row and 13 of 16. 
Schourek (5-6) allowed 10 hits and two earned runs in 6 2-3 innings. Anthony Young re­lieved with the bases loaded and two outs in the ninth and got Mariano Duncan on a grounder for his 13th save. 
Terry Mulholland {12-10) al­lowed four runs and five hits in four innings. He left the game with an inflamed left knee, but the injury did not appear to be serious. 
Reds 1 0, Astros 0 

HOUSTON -Jose Rijo held Houston to three hits over seven innings as Cincinnati routed Houston for its fourth victory in five games. 
Rijo (11-9) escaped a bases­loaded jam in the second inning by striking out Brian Williams and then retired the next eight batters in a row. He struck out six and walked four. 
Greg Swindell relieved Rijo and pitched one inning while striking out two. It was his first relief appearance since April 15, 1987, when he was pitching for the Cleveland Indians. 
Williams (7-5) walked the bases loaded in the first inning and Hal Morris scored the first run on Glenn Braggs' grounder. 
Bill Doran tripled and scored on Rijo's single to center field in the second and Rijo also scored on Barry Larkin's single to center field, giving Rijo an early 3-0 lead. 
Mets 6, Phlllies 3 
PHILADELPHIA Pete Schourek won his third straight start and Todd Hundley and Dick Schofield each drove in 
Careers of the Nineties 
EXPLORE THE POSSIBIUTIES OF A CAREER 'ltttDi OFFERS YOU THE BEST JNCOIE AND ADVANCEMENT POTENTIAL Get the lac:ts on 110 GRowtH OCWPATIONS. 
~ _. ~ choa&e hao .,_yo 
---~.But~is
help. The ,_, CAREER REPORT SERIES llos theinlonnotJon you need to make 1he beSt *dsian for your c:.or­H&rdl. Major clan!Jes haw taken place in our....-.in the lui 10 yaus and .,., dl ir, :-.. =king.•CHOCSE A CAREER N» that has the bell oppo~ b INCOME POTENTIAL GRowtH-ADVANCEMENT lor the
N­
"Car..s d h N.,_, liols ...., 110 
~. wllicll _,_II ID the 
latest ..-..ent and private 
run.--.. the ""'Y bell 
op~ ... ..-..... growth 
dumg .. -.g 10 ywaR. Only 
~IOIIich haw .. ellmaled 
growth_.,""-or...,....,.chosen 
-~whO:h '-estmated growth in -of 25% .. lhown in bold. 
~..,~'" ............ ~C~CWDL4·12
~----............ -·..... 
.........&&*...,............lllcll; you Mid 10
--_..,~
----.~-~-~.,........ ORDER NOW-~'Uo,_--"7.51 
--~-­
f1NO CUT MCJU( ~CAAEERS ­llON1" WAS1E TloEII A CN&R -TOOESN"T m Y!UI SICUS _, TAl.fHTS! 
~laodtt<n ........ 101 A<:lon.-. producen ... 102 A<:tuarioe ••••..••...•.••... 325 Adml-.................. 321 Aert>spKle .._.. .......... 103 M tnllllc ..,....,,.. ........... 104 MCTaft mediiii<S . . . . . . 1D6 Aircraft pllatl •........•..... 105 Archilecll •••..••...•...... 107 ArctwBa l comers . . . . . . . . . 160 Biological Sdontls1a ..•••.... 326 ~~-.... 120 
cnen-...... . 121 

OCCUPATlOH ORDER NUMBER 
Chlldcere worl<era ...•••.•.•. 122 
Ch~opractors ................ 151 
Chnical laboratory tech. . . . . . . . . 1!56 
Computer operatoro .•••• , .•. 127 
Compute< p<09rammen . . . . . . . . 126 
Computer service technicians . . . . 1~ 
Computw system analysts . . . . . . 125 
Construc:lion & bu~d01g 1'1Spedors 131 
Conatructlon mgra .•••.••••.. 322 
Co..-.c:tion olllcero ••••..••••• 13e 
Cooaaelora .••..•..•..••... 167 
Dental &SIISianls . . . . . . . . . • . . . 153 
O.oi!JMra .••••••••.••••••. 140 
Oelectives ..............•... 233 
Dletlllana l nutrttlonlata ••••.•. 152 
Elec1rtcal I. electronic engtr.era 141 
Employment lnlervle-ro •••••• 111 
Englneerlft9, eclence 1. data proc. 
.......g............... 327 
Engineering lechnlclana •••••• 145 
Fonancial '"!Jrs .....••........ 323 
Alght at1enclanta ••••..•••••• 141 
Geologists & geophyoicists • . • . • 251 
Graphic & fine erusts •......... 201 
H.allh Mrvice mgro •••••••••• 203 
Hotel III!Jra l ...tatanta ••••••• 208 
lndustriet eR!J~ ......•.•.. 207 
Inspectors & compliance ollieen . 253 
Lllbor relatione apec:lallata ••••• ZS4 
Lllwyera ••••••••••••••••••• 212 
le!Jal ualatanta .••••••••••• 213 
Mgrnt analyota I. conaullanta ••• 324 
Mtdg • pubtlc relations mgra ••• 262 
Matnemabcoans . . . . • . • . . • . . . . 217 
Mechanocal en!JmHR ......... 218 Medle4ll aaalatanta ••••••••••• 211 Meteorotovlste •••••••••••••• 256 NurMI, tlceMed •••••....••• 225 NurMI, re!Jiaterad ••.•.•••••• 224 Nuraln!J I. paychlatrlc atdeo •••• 226 Occupational lheraplata ••.••.. 263 Operation& reaearch analyllo •. 328 PharmaCISts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264 Phyolcal lheraplall .........• 265 Phyolclana ......••......... 230 Phyoiclana aulatanta .•...... 231 Phy~:CtSts & a:::-:nc:!".;~s ....... 266 Propeny & real estate mgrs ..... 26!1 Poychologiots ..•........... 235 R•dHl &. le6evlalon announcers . 237 Rediotovlc lachnologlata ...•.. 258 Real esllte agents & broken .... 239 Recreational therwpilts ....... 2C1 
-=-OCCUP--ATlON_____OROE_R_......-.-•• 
Reponers & c~spondenls ..... 238 Reotaurant food Mrvlce mgra .. 261 Scoenca t.chn1011ns . . . . . . . . . . . 259 Secrotanes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246 Soctalworl<era •••.•.•....•.. 2U Stock brokera I. aecurlllea aaleo 
worl<ero ••••.•••....• 2411 Surgical technlclana ...•.•... 250 Taachers. kind. & elementary .... 302 Taachers. oecondary .......... 301 T<'Oil'"'tlra,.ra •. • • •..••.• 307 Tra,.l agenta ....••••.•••••. 306 Underwrlleta ..•••.••••••..• 328 u.t>an & re!Jion&l plamers ...... 316 YelariMrlana •••••••••••••.. 311 Wrttera l edltoro •••••••••••• 312 
ORDER HON -Only '1.110 PI" _ _,_ 'r.sc
........... 
f1ND OUT II80IJT NTERES1lNG CARE£RS ­llON1" WASTE no.AE N A CAREER THAT OOESN~ m 'lOUR S1<1L.U N<D TALENTS! 




---­ +--------­ +---!  

~-..,..~-.. 
--: 

~.!:0-:-" • IUs-on~ 
! Tl....,..,.u ~ u .....,....,~-~:..::
Add ... oCbtllll~--~ 
' 
' 
....___ i 

<~----­
z.,__ 
Of'O(IJI NOW • .....EDIA TE DEUYERY 
.....,..,GYH~•-"'ne 
PO•o•.W1172 
....,_... T'(IU.$Tn....1172 1
'----·--------------·--------..-· 
~~--.-· 

page 14 The Observer Tuesday, September 8, 1992 




Courier destroys McEnroe 
I 
I Butler
I f r continued from page 16 
Petrucelli commented. "But, I I believe our players are more I experienced in the game of' soccer theirs."
I than i The Bulldogs top scoring
i 
threats are Kori Stiefrafer, who 

I 
netted both goals for her team

I 
on Sunday, and Chris Johnson,t the team's leading scorer in
I 
r 1991 with seven goals and 12 assists.
I 
I With no progress in the injury I department, Petrucelli will once I again count on his younger I 
where he can't beat Courier, Andre Agassi, Pete Sampras and several other top young players when they're playing well. For McEnroe, a perfec­tionist who ruled tennis as No. 1 from 1981 through 1984, there is no joy in being anything but the best. 
Courier, winner of the Australian and French opens and a finalist here last year, goes into the quarterfinals against the winner of Monday night's Agassi-Carlos Costa match. Sampras, a 6-3, 1-6, 1­6, 6-4, 6-3 winner over Guy Forget, plays Alexander Volkov, who beat Brad Gilbert 6-2, 6-4, 5-7, 7-6 (7-5). 
MaliVai Washington won two games in the afternoon to reach the fourth round as he completed a 6-4, 6-7 (7-2), 6-4, 6-3 victory over Henri Leconte. The match began Sunday night and was suspended by rain at 
12:40 a.m. with Washington, the 14th seed, serving with a 4­3 lead in the fourth set. 
Steffi Graf, the women's No. 2 seed, advanced to the quarters by beating Florencia Labat 6-2, 6-2. Graf will play No. 5 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, a 6-0, 6-1 winner over No. 14 Zina Garrison. Ninth-seeded Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere also made it to the quarters, beating Carrie Cunningham 6-3, 7-5. 
She will play her youngest sister, Magdalena Maleeva, who defeated 16-year-old Chanda Rubin 7-5, S-7, 6-1 in a match that was delayed by rain. It will be the first time sisters have met at the U.S. Open since 
players. 

"The difference between the first and second halves on Saturday was unbelievable. The one game of experience will definitely help," the second­year Irish coach said. 
Most impressive of the freshmen in Saturday's game was Rosella Guerrero, who recorded a hat trick and could be the big scorer the Irish are missing. 
"She has the ability to score goals, and I hope she becomes a dominant figure," Petrucelli said. "But, we have a number of players that are capable of scoring goals." 
I 
I
' 
I 



Grass Volleyball 
'
I 
I I I 

Tournament

I 
Sponsored by the Men's V'Ball Club 
Held Sunday Sept. 13 

2 vs 2 $5/team (male, female, or both) 4 vs 4 $8/team (at least one female) 
Great Prizes for Top Teams! 
Register Now! Call: Dan 283,1086 Chris 277,5415 
Katerina Maleeva, the middle sister, defeated Magdalena in the opening round two years ago. 
For McEnroe, it was a tortu­ous end for the tormented ge­nius of tennis, his popgun shots no match for Courier's heavy artillery, his rage in the final set reduced to a pathetic tirade against a courtside photogra­pher. 
Courier took target practice at McEnroe, pinning him on the baseline, forcing him to dash side to side and drawing groans and gasps as he lunged in vain after hard, deep shots. 
McEnroe's magic moments were rare -the occasional leaping overhead, the few drop volleys, the odd ace -and that deepened his conviction to quit. 
"I am not going to say it's an easy decision, but it is pretty clear that after all this ... based on where I was hoping to get to, that it is not that tough. 
"I don't need any sympathy. I feel like I am very happy with my career. It is just one of those things. You've got to decide sooner or later. I suspect enough is enough." 
Courier wasn't so eager to push McEnroe into retirement. 
"We'll all miss him," Courier said. "There'll be other big players, but not another John. Don't get me wrong. I'm not writing him off. I hope he keeps playing. He's still got a lot of tennis left in him. On any given day, John can beat anybody." 
In this, his final Open as a full­time player, even McEnroe's famous temper tantrums were subdued for a while. 

St. Mary's volleyball plays pre-season match 
.. 
i i I I 
l 
NEW YORK (AP) -John McEnroe needed no more con­vincing that his tennis career is over than the cannonade of shots Jim Courier whizzed past him. 
Courier convinced him at the 
U.S. Open on Monday with serves that nearly tore the racket out of McEnroe's hand, with groundstrokes he couldn't touch, with volleys he leaped at and barely reached. He con­vinced McEnroe with two brutal sets that exposed his lost skills at 33 and confirmed the strength and talent of the 22­year-old No. 1 player. 
Courier convinced him, finally, in a tie-breaker that McEnroe had fought his hardest to reach, scrapping and screaming and summoning up all he had left, only to get blown out in a hurry. And when it ended, Courier going into the quarterfinals with a 6-2, 6-2, 7-6 (7-1) victory, McEnroe leaving a fourth-round loser, he knew as well as his 20,000 dispirited fans in the stadium that this might be his last match here. 
"Oh, definitely," said McEnroe, who won the last of his four Open titles in 1984. "This is a pretty clear indication that Jim has outplayed me, and that the top guys are clearly a step ahead of me. It is not really a difficult decision. 
"The bottom line is just that I am not as good as the top play­ers. I am a step below the top players. If they are on top of the game, and I am on top of the game, it appears that I come up short." 
He is at the stage, he said, 

By KILEY COBLE Sports Writer 
The Belles volleyball team had an impressive pre-season opener at the Kalamazoo College Tourney on Saturday, placing third out of nine col­leges. 
In pool play, Saint Mary's trounced Principia College 15­5, 15-5 in its first match of the tourney. The team then went on to defeat Carthage 10-15, 15­10, 15-11, in its second game of pool play. 
Saint Mary's, seeded first after these two games, went on to play North Central and lost 15-5, 15-6, 10-5. The Belles were still ranked ahead of North Central, however after this defeat and bounced back after the third match to crush Kalamazoo, 15-7, 15-6. 
In the semi-finals, Saint Mary's still held on to the first­place slot when they went up against Spring Arbor, who was ranked fourth. The Belles lost a disappointing match against them, however, 15-10, 11-15, 7-15. 
"We were worn out when we went up against Spring Arbor," Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We did very well, though. Our stats as a team look good." 
The individual stats are im­pressive as well. Co-captain Karen Lorton led the team with 71 kills, Kim Brandstetter pulled off 26 kills, Mary Wheeler accomplished 25 kills, and co-captain Laura Panowicz held her own with 17 kills. 
Junior Michelle Martino led in assists, collecting 122 during the Tourney. This put her setting average at 69%, averaging 9.4 assists per game. "We play a lot differently this year, more as a team," Martino said. 
"Our offense is tremendous, but our defense needs work." 
The team has started a new defense this year and according to Schroeder-Biek they had a good number of digs. "But at the end of the day we were tired and we had a dull defense," Schroeder-Biek said. "Our weaknesses are very workable, this is only the pre­season." 
The Belles will be traveling again on Thursday to go up against Bethel College at 7:00 pm. 
-


DIPPING IS FOR DIPS. 
DON'T USE SNUFF OR CHEWING TOBACCO. 

Are you interested in returning to your high school to promote Notre Dame? 
Become a part of the Undergraduate Schools Committee. Please attend the mandatory training session Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
(We held two sessions last week -if you attended one of those, it is not not necessary to come Tuesday night.) 
Questions? Call Sue (x4283), Angie (x4702), or the Admissions Office (239-7505). 



ATTENTION!!! 
Accounting Majors Meet the Firms Night 
Wednesday, September 9 7-9 p.m. Monogram Room, J.A.C.C. 


•


Today 
page 15 Tuesday, September 8, 1992 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 

CAMPUS  
Tuesday  
7 p.m. Film: "Drugstore Cowboy."  Annenberg Auditorium,  
Snite Museum of Art.  
9 p.m. Film: "Children of Paradise."  Annenberg Auditorium,  
Snite Museum of Art.  

LECTURES  
Tuesday 12:30 p.m. Kellogg Seminar, "Anthropological Reflections on the Brazilian Crisis." Roberto DaMatta, senior fellow, Kellogg Institute. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 3:30 p.m. Graduate Seminar, "Characterization of Acid Sites and Hydrocarbon Intermediates in Molecular Sieves." Raymond Gorte, University of Pennsylvania. Room 356, Fitzpatrick Hall. Sponsored by Chemical Engineering.  

MENU  
Notre Dame Italian Grilled Chicken Breast Sandwich Manicotti Shepherd's Pie Saint Mary's Chinese Bar Potato Bar  


(;HU:i:iWUKU 
ACROSS 25 Having rounded 57 Kitty sweller projections 58 Apt anagram for 
1 Dummy 28 Some concerns 17 Across 4 Produces of racers 60 Whaler's cask produce 32 Aphorisms 
61 "... l~vely as

9 Scornfully 34 Gridiron feat self-satisfied 35 U.S. satellite 
62 Salt's tale 36 Radial13 Sabot's sound 63 Norwegian river on a pavement 37 Sparkling 64 Lecture material 

headdress

15 Dostoyevsky's 65 D. S. Freeman39 Mentor
"The-" 
subject1&Aitman's 40 Newman film 
41 Sketch

"Welcome-" 
42 Noisy oil well 
DOWN17 Galilee was one 

44 Full of feeling 19 Cousin of etc. 47 Zasu of early 1 Battle memento films 2Too
20 Mint "for 
remembrance" 48 Half-sister of 3 Kitchenware Liza 
4 Ultimate 21 Earnest attempt 49 Actor Dixon 5 Put on a23 Flatfish 

51 Saharan nomad 

pedestal24 Of bodily tissue 53 Redoubtable 
6 Frosted 7 Country singer Bandy aT. Williams

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
vehicle 9 Co-creator of a law of radiation -=+'~+=-! 10 Inn off a 
highway 11 Suffix with cell 12 Scottish novelist: 
1779-1839 H=-+-::±+=-l 14 Foresight w:::+::~~ 18 S. L~.ver's "Rory 
22 Criticism !Im~~-~~24 Autocrat 
25 Shaping 8=+=:~-F-1 machine ~""'+-'~..j..::.-l 26 Hatred -...:=+=:+-+.:=-~ 27 Shakespearean fan 

Near misses of the Old West 
01-\ 'i£5, '(O\J ARE. 
M0\1£ II. 
BILL WATIERSON 
l'IJE GOT At\t.W Ef'\TR'( 
FOR OUR l\'SI OF 
WORD'S THI\T 68 
P.. Rt:ACI\ON. 


29 "... crowd": Wordsworth 30 Everglades bird 31 Some bar crossers 33Atlas 38 Suffix with Boswell 39 Deny 41 Calamitous 43 MOMA display 

45 Female bullfighter 460newith a mortgage so Some objets d'art 51 Poi source 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
52 Module; monad 53 Dix or Knox 54 Not written 55 Pure and simple 5& Pelagic 
predator 59ASiouan 

• 
page 16 
ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Cheap Shots 

Vincent's resignation is bad news for baseball fans 
Take me out to the ball game. Take me out to the crowd. 
But wait until April of 1994. 
With the resignation yesterday of baseball commissioner Fay Vincent, a dreadful possibility looms largely real: that the 1993 season will end up as a wash, a summer-long lockout of money-grubbing major-league players by money-grubbing major league owners. 
Skyrocketing salaries, and owners willing to pay them, have put several clubs, and indeed the entire institution of major league baseball, in financial jeopardy. 
With the expiration of the Major League Agreement set for 1993, major league owners will have the option of opening the agreement for restructuring before next year's season begins. With profound gaps between the positions of the owners and the players' union, a lockout seems like the most likely scenario for next April's opening day action. 
But despite the fact that the owners are willing to go to the mat with the players' union, they are forgetting their own recent history. The owners never win their court cases. Sunday, on This Week with David Brinkley, political analystJbaseball scholar George Will likened the major league owners' legal record to the regular-season marks of the infamous Cleveland Spiders in the late 1880s. 
But like those seasons must have dragged on for the Cleveland Spiders, so the summer of 1992 will drag for baseball fans from South Florida to Seattle. For big business, especially big business in the public eye, has a tendency to drag labor-agreement proceedings through any number of years and months. Any conclusion in time to save the 1993 season is unlikely. 
The only losers through all of this inflated bickering will be the major league fans. When next July rolls around, without baseball, the losers will be the rooftop watchers behind Wrigley Field, the Dodger Dog vendors at Chavez Ravine, and the new Marlin fans at Joe Robbie Stadium. 
Major league owners have tried to get their acts together ever since salaries began to take off in the early '80s, but, through escalating salaries and repeated labor disputes, haven't been able to do so. It's possible that the owners may have dealt themselves and the 1993 season a final blow by forcing Vincent out of office. 
'Cause it's one, two, three strikes, you're out at the old ball game. 
INSIDE SPORTS 


Sports 

Tuesday, September 8,1992 
Volleyball team hopes to keep rolling 
By DAN PIER seniors who graduated," Sports Writer Brown commented. Morehead will look to its 
Notre Dame volleyball four returning starters, coach Debbie Brown hoped especially two-time all­that after a strong finish conference setter Chris last year, her team would Drabenstott, for leader­hit the ground running this ship. Junior Jana 
season. Thompson is the best 
The Irish have broken returning hitter. into a sprint, starting out Drabenstott and Thompson 4-0 including impressive are the only upper-class victories over Louisville players on a team with 
and Kentucky this past eight sophomores and two 
weekend. They hope to ·.freshmen. The Lady Eagles keep stride tonight when are 0-1 after dropping a they face Morehead State five-game match to at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Western Kentucky. ACC. Despite Notre Dame's 
"Obviously, we are early season success, happy to start the season Brown is taking nothing for · at 4-0," Brown said. "We granted. The Irish are accomplished one of our working particularly hard major goals by beating on their offensive attack in Kentucky. I think that will preparation for the Lady help us in a lot of ways, Eagles. especially in our "The season is still so confidence and our young," Brown reported. national ranking (currently "There is a lot to work on. just below the top twenty)." For this week, our main 
Morehead State knows emphasis is on our offense something about hot and improving our effi­streaks itself: the Lady ciency. I am very pleased Eagles won 16 of their last with our defense and our 20 matches to finish last blocking, but the offense is season. They ended up 17-considerably below what 11, including 9-5 in the we want it to be at this Ohio Valley Conference. point." Two starters were lost to Brown added that the graduation, however, team's success, especially including last year's team in the two areas she kill leader, Cathy Jarvis. mentioned, is attributable 
"They will really have to to more than its ex­
rely on some of the perienced and talented younger players to step up starting lineup. and fill the role of the 
see VB I page 12 


Under pressure, Vincent resigns 
NEW YORK (AP) Baseball commissioner Fay Vincent gave up the fight to keep his job and resigned Monday, four days after an overwhelming no-confidence vote by major league owners. 
''I've concluded that resignation -, not litigation -should be my final act as commissioner 'in the best interests of baseball,"' Vincent wrote in a three­page letter to owners that he made public. 
On Aug. 20, Vincent had vowed "I will not resign -ever." But the teams voted 18-9 with one abstention Thursday urging him to quit, and he decided to resign after a weekend of reflection at his vacation home in Harwich Port, Mass. 
Vincent was forced out by owners angry at his refusal to relinquish the commissioner's "best interests" power on collective bargaining, his unilateral order to realign the National League and his stance against superstations. 
The group was led by Jerry Reinsdorf of the Chicago White Sox, Bud Selig of Milwaukee, Stanton Cook of the Chicago Cubs and Peter O'Malley of the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
"It would be an even greater disservice to baseball if I were to precipitate a protracted fight over the office of the commissioner," Vincent wrote. "After the vote at the meeting last week, I can no longer justify imposing on baseball, nor should baseball be required to endure, a bitter legal battle -even though I am confident that in the end I would win and thereby establish a judicial precedent that the term and powers of the commissioner cannot be diminished during the remaining months of my term." 
Reinsdorf also sounded relieved that a fight was avoided. 
"It was the only sensible thing he could do," Reinsdorf said. "It was his best interest and in our best interest. The important thing is that the commissioner made the decision that was right for himself, for baseball and for everybody. We don't have to speculate on what we would have done had he not done that." 
Vincent took over as baseball's eighth commissioner when his friend, A. Bartlett Giammati, died on Friday of Labor Day weekend three years ago. He becomes the third commissioner forced to leave early, joining Happy Chandler and William Eckert. In addition, Bowie Kuhn was defeated in his bid for a third term and Peter Ueberroth departed prematurely after sensing owners would not re-elect him. 
Vincent's resignation put the 10­
see FAY I page 11 

Women's soccer team takes on Butler 


By MIKE SCRUDATO 
Sports Editor 
The 18th-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team learned a lot on Saturday against fifth­ranked North Carolina State. Tonight the Irish will try to put it to use as they travel to Indianapolis to face Butler. 
"They are a very organized team that is difficult to score against," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "I know we have more talent than them, but that doesn't mean we are going to win. 
"They (Butler) are 
excited about playing Notre Dame. This is their biggest game of the year." 
Notre Dame, which starts five freshmen, will begin its defense of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference title against a Bulldogs team which won its season opener on Sunday over Radford, 2-1. 
Butler returns all 11 starters from last season's inaugural 10-7-1 team, and this experience could play a factor in tonight's game. 
"It's a funny thing, they are a second year program, but we are younger than them," 
see BUTLER I page 14 








