The Observer
VOL. XXV. NO. 32 TUESDAY,OCTOBER 6, 1992 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Dornan says Clinton was guest of KGB 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Bill 
********** 
~linton's c~mpaign is di~miss-ELECTION • 
mg as a "bizarre fantasy Rep. 
92
Robert Dornan's claim that the------------­
Democratic nominee was a guest of the KGB during a trip to Moscow more than 20 years ago. 
Dornan, R-Calif., has made a number of speeches on the House floor in recent days about Clinton's trip to Moscow while he was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford in 1970. In an inter­view with the Washington Post, Dornan alleged that the-KGB drove Clinton around in a limousine to encourage him to lead anti-Vietnam War demon­strations. 
Clinton adviser Paul Begala, appearing on a C-SPAN call-in show, called the allegations 
• 
Poll I page 3 

• 
Election/ page 6 


"just another bizarre fantasy from Bob Dornan." 
Meanwhile, Newsweek re­ported that State Department officials had found several pages missing from Clinton's passport file, and the FBI was investigating. 
The magazine said several media outlets had filed Free­dom of Information Act re­quests for the file and were in­vestigating an unsubstantiated 
see Clinton I page 5 

The Observer/ Brian McDonough 

America's melting pot 

Representing a blend of many cultures, these children enjoy themselves at the Multicultural Fall Festival yesterday at the Fieldhouse Mall. The festival began Sunday and will continue through Friday. 


Senate calls on NBC to apologize for Sinead's act 
By KENYA JOHNSON to the values we hold," he said. community without knowing spoke on the issue. Dennis
• Sinead I page 3 

News Writer McCarthy drafted the resolu­how anyone else feels about the Moore, director of public re­tion which opposes the act and issue," said Farmer. lations, saw no cause for an of­Last night Student Senate reprimands NBC for airing the Farmer walked out of the ficial University response. 
President Dan Connolly." But

passed a resolution calling upon show. Although Saturday Night meeting when Senate moved to "We may have a contract
we too must exercise our right

NBC to issue a formal apology Live is live and unedited, two stop discussion on the resolu­agreement with NBC, but Notre
to speak out. We aren't

and statement of regret for other showings were tion and take a final vote. Dame has no influence over
censoring, we aren't banning.

broadcasting the act of Sinead broadcasted in other time zones Keenan Hall Co-President their programming," he said. 
We're simply saying we don't

O'Connor tearing a photograph after the original live Dave Reinke also disagreed "I don't think NBC can be held 
approve and won't tolerate

of Pope John Paul II during the performance. with the resolution. responsible. They immediately 
what happened."

October 3rd episode of Saturday Those opposed to the resolu­"It seems that she was raised disavowed any knowledge of or
McCarthy agreed. "It may

Night Live. tion questioned if Senate had a in a Catholic environment to­endorsement," Moore added. 
have been within her constitu­

O'Connor performed "War," a right to pass the resolution. tally unlike our own and expe­
tional right, but we can dis­

song by the the late Bob Marley. "The first amendment gives rienced a very negative aspect Mark Milbocker, president of
agree with it," he said. 

After her performance everyone the right to speak out which we cannot understand," the Knights of Immaculata,
Members still expressed dis­

O'Connor held up an 8-by-12 as they wish," said Adele he said. agreed with the Senate action.
satisfaction with the resolution. 

photo of the pope and slowly Lanan, assistant director of "We'd hope in good faith that
"We are essentially asking

ripped it into several pieces student activities. "We cannot ''I'm shocked and a little it wasn't NBC's intent, but we
NBC to censor their shows and

while saying, "Fight the real infringe upon a person's way of taken aback, but not offended. still hope they could will make
that is not in our place," said

enemy." expression." I'm confident enough that I can an apology," said Milbocker. 
Senator Tyler Farmer. 

Pat McCarthy, SUB manager, Senate members agreed, but see what O'Connor did, come to John Cowan, president of the 
"We are trying to represent

said he was offended by the said that the resolution does not terms with it, and still be strong College Republicans, saw no
the ND community on a moral

show. "This country was restrict expression. in my faith," Reinke added. cause for a response.
issue based on a few opinions.

founded on religious tolerance. "We understand that The resolution passed by a
We have no right to speak so

That action displayed no toler­O'Connor had the right to ex­vote of eight to four. "Whether we agree with it or
strongly on behalf of the ND 

ance, no respect. It was a front press herself," said Junior Class Various campus organizations not is no reason not to show it.'' 
BOG discusses spending cuts with Hickey 
By KATIE CAPUTO our standards," Hickey said. McCandless Hall. Hickey said News Writer According to Hickey, because the system follows the success of this decrease in students the of Augusta Hall, which operates 
Saint Mary's President College must "recognize that on an honor parietal system. William Hickey discussed recent expenditures (will) have to de­In the "McCandless Hall ex­expenditure cuts with the Saint crease." periment," the dormitory was Mary's Board of Governance To cut expenditures, thirty­put on the honor parietal sys­during Monday 's meeting. four staff and faculty positions tem in an effort to persuade 
Hickey said that 80 percent of have been eliminated within the students to remain on-campus, all operating revenues comes past three years, Hickey said. he said. The administration from student tuition and room Operating budgets have been plans to give the experiment a and board. frozen in every department for few years to prove its success. 
However, in the last few the past two years, he said, and Hickey ended the meeting by 
years, the student population at all salaries were frozen this answering the question, "Where Saint Mary's has been reduced year. do you see Saint Mary's in the by 200 students. Because of the Hickey added· that Saint next five years?" decrease in applications to the Mary's is not unique to these "We will continue to work college, in order to maintain reductions, but that the college hard at a further diversification 
high academic standards, the is significantly better off than of students and staff," he said. school could not accept as many many other Catholic schools. "We are going to continue to students as in the past. Another topic that the board work towards a day when stu­"We are not going to lower presented to Hickey was the dents can have more access to 
card access system used by Saint Mary's College." 
Fireside chat addresses aging problems 
By THERESA ALEMAN reform, the educational system problems of old people because News Writer and the economy, he said. they are their own future prob­Reese cited a need for politi­lems," he said. 
The process of aging presents cal reform so that all people, Also speaking at the chat was problems, changes and oppor­not just the aging, could have Molly Toole, a woman who has tunities, according to Paul an improved quality of life. "If worked in the Hesburgh Reese, Indiana president of the the people lead, the politicians Library for 21 years, who American Association of Re­will follow," he concluded. shared her memories from the tired People, who spoke at a Reese encouraged listeners to past.
Another day gone by 
fireside chat yesterday. work hard, have fun, keep Toole expressed excitement 
While sitting on the dock at St. Joseph's lake, senior Vernon Bell and  The primary concerns of se­ learning, and to do things for  over the young people's interest  
sophomore Victoria Mullek admire the sunset.  nior citizens include the budget  others.  "Young people need to  in the problems that the elderly  
deficit, universal health care  concern themselves with the  face.  

page 2 Tuesday, October 6, 1992
The Observer 


INSIDE COLUMN 
Greenfield, owners of Ben 
and Jerry's Homemade, 
Inc., have mastered the 
ice cream industry. In 
1991, their sales totalled 
over $97 million. 
In the same year, they 
Ben and Jerry's 
the United States. 
They also continued to implement their unique salary guideline, which prevents any company staff-member from earning more than seven times the salary of the lowest paid employee. 
They've sponsored charity and musical festivals in San Francisco and Chicago. They dispose of their production wastes in an envi­ronmentally safe manner. They print phrases like "Please Think About Issues of Peace" on ice cream wrappers. 
At the Newport Folk Festival in Rhode Island this summer, Ben and Jerry set up a postcard­writing table, providing addresses and information for visitors to write to their respective Congresspersons in support of a bill to relieve childhood poverty in America. 
"The idea is to integrate a social concern into all the different areas of normal business, to maximize what we can do," said Greenfield in an interview for the Folk Festival. 
Cohen and Greenfield have redefined the corporate ethic, integrating social service into the goals of their business. Their phenomenal success proves without a doubt that altruism and corporate growth need not be mutually exclusive. 
They are a new breed of businessmen, a refreshing change from the ruthless characters who have come-perhaps justifiably-to define the corporate world in America's collective mind. 
Unfortunately, an irrational conception prevails in our society that charity means weakness; weakness, to be sure, is the last characteristic American business wants to display as it struggles to maintain a place in the chaotic world economy. Consequently, business often arranges its goals to serve not the common good, but the individual bank account. 
"I feel like this company shows you can have a business and still care about people," said Greenfield. "It's another option for business, one which involves bringing values into the company, not leaving them at home. You don't have to do what everyone tells you is the only way, and business doesn't need to be exploitative... 
"So we have a two-part bottom line, how much money did we make, and how well did we contribute to the community ... To us, [the community) is central-it has the same importance as the quality of our product." 
If there is any justice in the world, Ben and Jerry will be known-very soon-not only for outrageous flavors like Chunky Monkey and Tropical Rainforest Crunch, but for their "caring capitalism," which helped dispel the myths that the profits of business should benefit only those who generated them. 
Today's Staff 
News Production 
Becky Barnes Kim Massman 
Bevin Kovalik Jordan Maggio 
Sports Systems 
Brian Kubicki Matt Carbone 
Graphics Accent 
Christopher Mullins Mara Divis Sarah Doran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY AT AGLANCE 
WORLD Jackson's laryngitis delays concert 
•ISTANBUL, Turkey -Only a few hours before his long-awaited concert in Istanbul, a voiceless Michael Jackson flew to London, organizers announced. Jackson caught a cold during his visit to Romania last week, where he last performed, and his private doctor was called to Istanbul on Friday, the day the rock star arrived, said Bob Jones, a Jackson spokesman. Jones said Jackson's doctors will decide whether the Istanbul concert, which had been scheduled for Sunday, will be held at a later date. Jackson was also scheduled to give a concert at the Aegean coastal city of Izmir, Turkey, on Wednesday. Jones said he was hopeful Jackson could still perform in Athens on Saturday. 

NATIONAL TV: America's favorite pastime 
•RADNOR, Pa. -Give up television forever? Not for a million bucks, say 25 percent of those questioned in a TV Guide survey. The survey, in the latest issue of the magazine, found 23 percent would give up all television watching permanently for $25,000, but 46 percent 
OF INTEREST 
•service 
oriented seniors: a representative from ·the Lutheran Volunteer Corps will be in the Library Con­course today from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. and at the esc from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Undergraduates are welcome to attend. 

•Truman 
Scholarship information meeting will be today from 4:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. in 217 O'Shaugnessy Hall for juniors interested in public service 

•Freshmen 
students interested in helping to launch a new Freshman Year publication are invited to an organizational meeting tomorrow at 4:30p.m. in Room 7 of the Freshman Learning Resource Center, or contact Cecilia Lucero at 239-7421. 

•ND 
Co-dependents Anonymous will have a 12­step recovery program for men and women who grew up in dysfunctional families today at 5:30 p.m. and tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the Sorin Hall chapel. 


MARKET UPDATE 
YESTERDAY'S TRADING October 5 
VOLUME IN SHARES NYSElNDEX 284,392,700 -1.67 to 224.14 S&P COMPOSITE -2.90 to 407.57 DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS ·21.61 to 3179.00

UNCHANGED 441 


GOLD 
+ 2.40 to $350.50 
SILVER + 1.5 to $3.749 
FORECAST 
Sunny and mild today with highs in the upper 60s. Cloudy and mild Wednesday and high in the upper 60s. 
TEMPERATURES 
City  H  L  
Anchorage  47  29  
Atlanta  62  57  
Bogota  70  46  
Boston  71  40  
Cairo  88  70  
Chicago  66  42  
Cleveland  63  42  
Dallas  87  57  
Detroit  64  40  
Indianapolis  70  45  
Jerusalem  90  66  
London  59  52  
Los Angeles  76  62  
Madrid  73  52  
Minneapolis  77  56  
Moscow  43  36  
Nashville  63  56  
New York  65  45  
Paris  57  50  
Philadelphia  69  50  
Rome  64  52  
Seattle  62  45  
South Bend  68  39  
Tokyo  70  54  
Washington. D.C.  65  49  


would have to be paid at least $1 million, and 25 percent would not do it even then. The survey also found that nearly two in three Americans often watch TV while eating dinner, and men are twice as likely as women to hold the remote controL It also found that more viewers are offended by too much violence (37 percent) than by too much sex (27 percent), lack of creativity (14 percent), too many reruns (11 percent) or too many commercials (7 percent). The results are based on a national telephone poll of 1,007 adults June 6-11. The margin of error was plus or minus 3 per­centage points. 
Farmer frows monstrous pumpkin 
•VACAV 
LE, Calif.-Superior seeds, unusually warm weather and lots of water helped a Washington state farmer grow the year's largest pumpkin -an 827 -pound monster that measured more than 14 feet around. "You just have to determine every day what the pumpkin needs," said Joel Holland of Puyallup, Wash., who earned $7,000 for his victory in the World Pumpkin Confederation Worldwide Weigh-In on Sat­urday. The winner was the largest ever entered in the contest, beating an 816 1/2-pounder grown in New Jersey in 1990. Holland said the pumpkin gained 22 1/2 pounds a day at its peak. He said he built a wooden shelter around it halfway through the growing season to keep rain and direct sunlight off it. The pumpkin will be carved into a hugejack-o'-lantern on Oct. 31. 

•Arts 
and Letters Career Day is today from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). Representatives from 30 career areas are in attendance to answer any questions that stu­dents have and will provide literature for students to take with them. 

•No 
Accounting Association will present Conviser Duffy tonight at 6 p.m. in room 222 Hayes-Healy Center. Stop by and speak with Conviser Duffy representatives about the CPA exam and their preparatory course. 

•campus 
Inter Faith Bible study will be tonight at 7 


p.m. and every Tuesday in Badin Hall conference room. The session will last one hour and bring a Bible. 
•Right to Life of ND/SMC will have an important organizational meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Rm. 122). Collegians Activated to Liberate Life (C.A.L.L.), a national pro-life activist group, will give a presentation. 
ON THIS DAY IN HISTORY 
• 
In 1884: The Naval War College was established in Newport, R.I. 

• 
In 1973: Egypt and Syria attacked Israel in the start of the Yom Kippur War. 

• 
In 1976: In his second debate with Jimmy Carter, President Ford asserted there was "no Soviet domination of Eastern Europe." 

• 
In 1981 : Egyptian President Anwar Sadat was shot to death by Muslim fundamentalists while reviewing a military parade. 

• 
In 1991: Reports surfaced that a former personal assistant to Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas, University of Oklahoma law professor Anita Hill, had accused Thomas of sexually harassing her on the job. 




Tuesday, October 6,1992 

Clinton, Bush still tied in poll 
By PAUL PEARSON 
Associate News Editor 
Gov. Bill Clinton and President Bush are still running neck­and-neck among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, according to the latest Observer election poll. 
The poll, conducted Sept. 29­0ct. 5, says that 41 percent of students asked intend to vote for Clinton. Thirty-eight percent intend to vote for Bush, 17 percent are undecided, and 4 percent said they would vote for Texas billionaire Ross Perot, who officially re-entered the race Thursday. 
Bush received a 41 percent approval rating among the stu­dents in the poll. However, when asked who is responsible for the current economic eli-
USAir strikes, flights stopped 
IMPERIAL, Pa. (AP) -Ground crews for USAir, the nation's sixth-largest airline, walked off the job Monday in a dispute over job security, canceling flights for thousands of people. 
Flight attendants voted to honor the picket lines, which sprouted at dawn at airports around the country, including USAir hubs in Charlotte, N.C., and Pittsburgh, where 28 strikers were arrested. Airline pilots said they would continue to work. 
HeavenlyDinner Deal 

Every Sunday to Wednesday 
Spaghetti fi Tomato Sauce 
$2.99 
per person 
If thou has not tasted our delicious Italian offerings, here's a temptation: our very own Spaghetti and Classic Tomato Sauce Dinner. This sinful portion includes homemade Minestrone soup or crisp salad and devilishly hot loaves of San Francisco sourdough bread. An enlightening offer good Sundays thru Wednesdays until October 28, 1992. 
&... 
Spaghetti Warehouse 
• Great llalian Food. Alt-Amerocan Fun. • 
501 North Niles • In The Works Hotel • 232-4414 
Good Sunday rhrouEh Wednesday, until October zB. 1991. dinner only. Not good with other discounts, coupons or specials. 
The Observer 

Observer Election Poll 
'• ;:~ 

The following are the results of a random telephone poll of 300 Notre Dame students (151 male, 149 female) and 100 Saint Mary's students conducted Sept. 29-0ct. 5. 115 of the students polled were Democrats, 
174 were  Republicans  and  111  were  
independent. The  margin  of  error  is  5  
Ipercent.  

Who do you plan to vote for? Bush I 138% Clinton I\=: : : :::;:: /141% Undecided F:t:)))'j 17% Perot [J 4% 
Did you support Ross Perot before he withdrew from the race? Yes I 27% No I~{~~ ;:}~:;:;:;.;.;:;.;.:.:.:-:·=·=·=·=-=·=:>=:=:=:=:=:=:··=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=: tJ 73°/o 
mate, only 24 percent blamed random telephone poll of 300 Bush, while 34 percent said Notre Dame students (151 male, Congress was to blame. Eigh­149 female) and 100 Saint teen percent said both Bush and Mary's students. The margin of Congress are responsible. error is 5 percent. 
The survey is the result of a Students have different opin-
USAir said three-quarters of its 2,600 daily departures were taking off and other carriers were accepting stranded pas­sengers. But some travelers forced to find other ways home didn't have much sympathy for the strikers. 
"Look at that. Canceled, canceled, canceled. Every 15 minutes it changes," said Philadelphia-bound Sherry Parisi, who was stuck in Char­lotte with her sister-in-law, Jan­ice Graf. 
"I don't know how anybody could do this in this economy," said Graf. "It takes a lot of nerve." 
The striking union, the In­ternational Association of Ma­chinists, represents about 8,300 employees, and many of them said the main issue was job security -not wages or benefits. 
At the newly-opened Pitts­burgh International Airport, 25 people were arrested Monday afternoon for trespassing, and three for allegedly carrying brass knuckles. 



Davi Certo 
• Calling for recognition of National 

• Former candidate for Student Body President 
Coming Out Day 

• Grand Knight of ND Knights of Columbus 
• Leader of a group the Administration 

• Outspoken conservative Catholic 
refuses to recognize 

..AQuestion of Tolerance.. 
TONIGHT•7:30 pm. 

Public Abrasion 
WVFI's Weekly Discussion of Campus Issues and Politics 
with Rich Delevan 
PUMP IT UP. 
Does the issue of abortion strongly influence how you will vote? Yes I 47% No I::::;: =t :; I 53% 
Are these issues are important to you? (percent who said yes) Economy ,.-------,1 98% 
Environment I<<' ::::: / I 89% Family Values l===t==::::::;:::=:;::::=::::::::::::::::::q 77% 
Vice-pres. nomination f:::::::::;::::::::::t:::::::::::::::::::::j 77% Cand. personal life !ffl:@ 38% Do you approve of the job President Bush is doing? Yes ~·;:;:.;;:;:~41% 
No I\ff~~}ff <~?~t><~~tt~~~r tl 59o/o 

ions about Bush and Clinton s as res1 ent 1 necessary. How­running mates, according to the ever, only 37 percent of the poll. Seventy-five percent of students believe that Vice Pres­those questioned said that Sen. ident Dan Quayle could step in Al Gore, Clinton's vice presi-if Bush were unable to con­dential nominee, could step in tinue. 
NBC still receiving calls over Sinead's SNL stunt 
NEW YORK (AP) -The NBC switchboard was still getting calls Monday from people who couldn't believe their eyes when singer Sinead O'Connor tore up a picture of the pope on "Saturday Night Live." 
"There was an immediate viewer response that continued on Sunday and continues to­day," said NBC spokesman Curt Block. 
From the show's conclusion through Monday, the network 
page 3 
The Observer/ Christopher Mullins 

Is AI Gore capable of stepping in as president should Clinton be unable to function? 
Yes. 175% 
No f: <1 
13% Undecided t=::t:tl 
12% 

Is Dan Quayle capable of stepping in as president should Bush be unable to function? 
Yes ~~:.:;:.:;::.:;:.::;,~3~7,::
0/0:, 

No Itt/ < I 57% Undecided [I 6% 
Who is responsible for the 
current economic situation? 
Bush~~==~I24% Congress I ::::<: :: ' :::=d 34% 
Both fiJII 18% 
Ot her/u nd ec.l=~~~~~~~=~~~:~:~:~:~:~~~t:~~~~~~~fjll 24°/0 
received more than 900 calls from people who didn't like the show-and seven who did. 
"I was offended; the executive producer, Lorne Michaels, likewise was offended and sur­prised," said Block. "I haven't talked to the cast." 
"I want to emphasize it was a spontaneous act on her part and unauthorized," he said. 
O'Connor, who was in England on Monday, wants the action to speak for itself, said spokeswoman Elaine Schock. 



~---~--------­

page 4 The Observer 
Tuesday, October 6,1992 


THE NOTRE DAME 
I N G E V E N T 
I ' 
I 
1 

· l Closing · Athletic and Conv 
p.m.-Picnic at Cartier in case ofinclement w 
7p.m. -Fireworks 

Center) 
Seamaisin 
I 
There will be no masses in the Basilica (upstairs) nor in the residence halls on Sunday, October 11, to enable the University to gather for this special celebration. 
~ I  Sophomore JPW Committee  II  . Ill  
~ ~ •If interested, pick up an ~ application at the LaFortune ; Information Desk.I•Applications due by 4 p.m.  ~ ~I ~ ~  LONDON, ENGLAND MATION MEETING:  
~  Friday, Oct. 9th in the Student  ~  
~  Activities Office (315 Lafortune).  ~  

--~--....

-~ ----~-------~~~-~ 
1uesday, october o, 1~~2 
earc cont1nues for crash victims 

The Observer/ Kyle Kusek 
For many years of dedication 

Honoring the namesake of Waddick's coffee shop in O'Shaugnessy Hall, Gary Caruso presents Dean Robert Waddick with a plaque. This plaque was dedicated to Waddick yesterday. 
Korean predicts world will end this month 
The only earthly remains of the about 20,000 other church 
SEOUL, South Korea (AP) -Kwon family, he said, will be followers -has South Korean Kwon Tae-young, seated cross­the clothes they were wearing, officials worried. They wonder legged on the white linoleum their dental fillings and their ID how believers will react if floor, gestured excitedly as he tags from the Mission for the doomsday doesn't arrive I'Jll explained: at midnight on Oct. Coming Days church. schedule. 28, trumpets will blare and white-robed angels will carry Kwon said he's never been Some experts are even raising him, his wife and three sons to happier. fears of mass suicides if the 
heaven. 

Hey Seniors! 
FREE FOOD! 
burgers & dogs 7--9 Wednesday
9,2 Access Denied 
Sponsored by the Class of '93 
must be 21 

916 (rslune J'l\oto • SOultl Benet lndlono 46614 (219) 299-0600 
5lvai£a6fe for 
Personal Portraits• Passports • Identification 

1~ Hey Sophomore. '~1 
Graduation Pictures 

~ ~ 
Always at a reasonable price ~ •Do you want to be involved in the ~ 
Just 5 minutes from campus ~ most exciting weekend of the i ~ year? ~ ~ ~ 
~Then Sign Up To Join The I 
s•s 
date passes uneventfully. 
The firm faith of Kwon -and 
Ill ALUMNI SENIOR 

~!:CLUB 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) -With little hope of find­ing anyone alive, workers Monday cautiously searched for hundreds feared entombed in the tottering ruins of a 1 0-story apartment building torn by a crashing El AI cargo jet. 
Officials said the death toll would likely exceed 250. 
Authorities listed that many unaccounted for after the pilot lost a struggle to get his crip­pled Boeing 747-200 back to Schiphol Airport. The jumbo jet slammed into the angle of the V-shaped building 14 minutes after takeoff. 
"Going down! Going down!" were pilot Yitzhak Fuchs' last words Sunday evening after reporting that two of his four engines had caught fire. He and the three others aboard perished. 
Police said eight bodies had been pulled from the smolder­ing and, at times, still burning rubble of the building. 
Clinton 
continued from page 1 
rumor that Clinton considered applying for citizenship in some other country to avoid the draft. 
Clinton campaign spokeswoman Avis Lavelle and Bush spokeswoman Torie 
Firefighters began pumping out a pond next to the devas­tated apartment block looking for the plane's flight and voice recorders that will help deter­mine the exact cause of the crash. 
Investigators said it was too early to tell why the two engines on the Israeli plane's right wing caught fire and tore away. Officials ruled out a ter­rorist bombing but not sabo­tage. 
"Our first impression is that it was technical malfunction," Transportation Minister Hanja Maij-Weggen told reporters. 
Dutch television said the plane circled twice, trying vainly to get lined up with the runway. 
The disaster could prove to be the worst plane crash involving casualties on the ground worldwide. Hutton Archer, spokesman for the Interna­tional Civil Aviation Organiza­tion in Quebec, said a Boeing 707 cargo plane crashed in Santa Cruz, Bolivia, in 1976, 
Clarke both said they had no information about the pages reported missing from Clinton's file. The FBI declined comment. Clinton toured Europe during a vacation from Oxford Univer­sity, Clinton spokeswoman Dee Dee Myers said. He took a train from Helsinki to Moscow, arriv­ing on New Year's Eve of 1969 and staying for about a week as a tourist. 
The Observer 
is looking for business and economic students to write a guest column for the -susiness Page. If interested contact Business Editor Pancho Lozano at 239-7471 
[!).1!1 
r page o 1ne uoserver f
• 

ELECTION '92 
congresswomenlatJJiChl:l~ a taJIIlpatgrn 1 Monday to elect more women Congress. They announced their effort on the first anniversary of their prot~st of the Senate's treatment of' !Anita 
· · during the confirmation hearings then Supreme COJJ.tt nomilue~:f Cllan3nce Thomas. "Those hearings ·· things forever;'t Rep. Nancy Calif.. told a Capit()l HH conference, The all"male ,... ..],,..,, ... , Judiciary Committee came und criticism last October for its handling law professor Hill's allegations of harassment against Thomas. The nate eventually confirmed Thomas, but the hearings galvanized women to run for political office in record numbers this year. 
Bill Clinton and AI Gore forces for a Florida bus tour Monday in which they accused George Bush of reneging on his promise to protect the state's coastline and blamed him for troubles on Wall Street. A month before the election, the Democrats were campaigning in a state that Republicans have dominated in every national election since 1980. With 25 electoral votes, Florida is a prize that the Democrats hope to snatch in their quest to end 12 years of Repu):)Hcan occupation of the White House. Clinton aides said their polling showed they could win it. "The Republicans used to take Florida for granted, but they've been coming here a lot lately," Clinton said. 
on 
Monday said presidential riva,l Bil.l Clinton comes down "on aU sides of every issue" and pointed to the Democrat's stance on a new free~trade 
agreement as an exampJe.•...• 
referred to the recently n<>o.r.u....-.,tt 

orth Ameriean.Free Trade AgreE:trHll).~,, .l 
which he is to initial Thursday in 
"Once upon ati,me he said he 
TA, the free trade atzJteement~ 
Bush told a raliyJn histor:ie JlQ'V;~~ 
Green. "Then the labor bosSes told him 
they were.againstit·§oh~J:;a~~ wasn't sure he was for it or against "Now he'slooked at the<p<ills alid sees the American peopl(:) want ...· so just yesterday he said he's for . 
president said. ····· 
.DAL 
Monday magnitude" . wotls in a SO·min.ute ···· he said would be the first in a series~ "It's· such a massiv:eproblem,·you have ·• ·· take it a piece at a time;'' said who joined the presidential race> Thursday. He said his advertising campaign, which begins with· a/half~ hour show Tuesday and continues with a 30~minute spot on Friday. "will be kind of like the old Superman serial ., stay tuned tomorrow and we'II go to the next phase." 
Congress overrides veto 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The Senate 
voted Monday to override President 
Bush's veto of legislation designed to 
curtail rising cable television rates, 
sending the measure to the House for a 
climactic showdown. 
The vote was 74-25, well over the two­thirds majority needed, and came despite an a intensive last-minute lobby­ing campaign by the White House eager to preserve Bush's perfect record. 
Supporters said the measure to reimpose government regulation of the cable TV industry responded to con­sumer anger over soaring rates. 
But Senate Republican leader Robert Dole said, "This is an attempt to em­barrass the president 30 days before the election. That's what this is all about." 
The Senate vote was seen as the crucial test of the president's veto strength on the issue. Despite heavy lobbying by the president, his staff and the cable in­dustry, the vote was identical to the original Senate roll call last month. 
Bush had successfully vetoed 35 other bills. 
The cable TV bill would require the Federal Communications Commission to set rates for basic cable service in communities where cable companies operate as monopolies. It also is de­signed to enhance competition from other companies that can provide ex­panded programming similar to cable. 
And in a concession to the broadcast industry, it requires cable companies to negotiate with local broadcasters before carrying their signals. 
"The president says competition will not increase with this bill," said Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii. "He is wrong. 
If we do not pass this bill, there will 
never be competition to cable." 
Republican Sen. John Danforth of Missouri, a coauthor of the bill, cau­tioned Democrats not to characterize the vote as a weakening of the president. 
"I know a lot of weight has gone on the president's perfect record on vetoes," said Danforth. "A lot of presidents have had vetoes overridden and they have been very strong presidents." 
He pointed out that nine vetoes by President Reagan were overridden. 
After the Senate vote, White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said, "We stood for lower cable bills for the consumer through increased competi­tion. This is an important principle. We genuinely believe that our approach would be a better way to increase the variety of services available to the con­sumer at lower prices." 
Sen. AI Gore, the Democratic vice presidential candidate, left a bus cam­paign with Bill Clinton in Florida to fly to Washington for the vote. 
The legislation had won big majorities in both houses -280-128 in the House and 74-25 in the Senate. Twenty-four Senate Republicans had voted for it, and Bush had tried -but failed -to persuade enough of them to switch to block the override effort. 
The bill, inspired by public complaints about cable TV costs and service, would require the government to establish reasonable rates for basic cable service in areas where one cable company has a monopoly. The Federal Communications Commission also could step in if consumers complain that service beyond the basics is being priced exorbitantly. 

Candidates struggle with economy 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The presidential race entered its final four weeks on Monday with three candidates -instead of two -leveling blame for the nation's weak economy, a fragility underscored by new turbulence in the stock market. 
Democratic nominee Bill Clinton at­tributed the day's drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average -over 100 points at one point -to "uncertainty over President Bush's economic program." 
He urged markets to "calm down," boasting that "help is on the way." 
The White House shrugged off the stock plunge, which by close of trading had been largely erased. "We're watching it. We don't think it calls for any action at this point," said presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. 
Bush campaigned in Delaware after asserting on a morning television inter­view show that Democrats in Congress had further endangered economic re­covery by adding new taxes to a com­promise tax bill. 
Asked on ABC-TV's "Good Morning America" if he would veto the bill, Bush replied: ''I'm not sure." 
Ross Perot was acting and sounding like a major contender, six days before all three will meet in St. Louis for the first of three presidential debates. 
The independent challenger, whose first national television ad, a 30-minute spot, will air on Tuesday night, insisted he wasn't running to be a spoiler in the presidential race. "It was already spoiled," he said on NBC's 'Today" show. 
Lashing out at both Bush and Clinton, the Dallas executive accused the presi­dent of being out of touch and said Clinton's support for a free-trade agreement with Mexico showed the Arkansas governor doesn't understand business. 


Gov. Clinton compromises, Bush stands 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Bill Clinton never 
seems to foreclose an option while 
George Bush stakes out unqualified 
stands that sometimes come back to 
haunt him '-tendencies illustrated this 
week by jockeying over trade and taxes. 
Clinton's hedged support of the Mexican 
trade treatywas a classic example of his 
style: weigh all factors, split the 
differences and satisfy everyone a little, 
n<tone completely. "You must look at the 
otherside of the coin," he said of the 
treaty, a comment that typifies his 
approach to many issues. 
Bush, meanwhile. faces a day of reckoning on what canJe perilously close to a renewed no-new-taxes pledge earlier this campaign season. Congress is about to send him a bill that contains many of the tax breaks he wants ~ but theire offset by increases in other taxes and fees. 
"They pack it up with some of the good things the country needs, and then load in some things like higher taxes, and I'm going to have difficulty there," the president said Monday on ABC's "Good Morning America." 
Bush has been known to fudge, as he seems to be doing now in backing away from an all-out abortion ban, and Clinton has been known to do 180-degree turnarounds, as he did when he told Arkansas he would serve a full term as governor and then enter1:1d the presi~ dential race. 
But usually Ws the other way around. The rap against Bush is that he flip-flops, arid the knock against Clinton is that he waftles. 
Clinton's positions usually come with qualifiers and conditions, To supporters, that's shading and nuance; to detractors, .it's slick or evasive. 
GREEI<S & CLUBS 
RAISE A COOL 
$1000 
IN JUST ONE WEEKI 
PLUS $1000 FOR THE 
MEMBER WHO CAlLS! 
No obligation. No cost. You also get aFREE HEADPHONE RADIO just for calling 1-800-932-0528, Ext. 65 



t.l... 
)•j 'f • I 

..•.·t ('."~ ~ ~.. ;,~ <1 t' 
NoTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
DIRECTED BY MARK PILKINTON 
Wednesday, October 7, 8: I 0 pm Thursday, October 8, 8: I 0 pm Friday, October 9, 8: I 0 pm Saturday, October I0, 8: I 0 pm Sunday, October II, 3: I 0 pm 
Washington Hall Reserved Seats • $7 Student and Senior Citizen discounts are available Wed., Thurs. and Sun. performances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. Master Card and VISA orders: 239-8128 

Business 
Tuesday, October 6,1992 page 7 
INSIDE BUSINESS 
NDCIBD focuses on issues abroad 
It is encouraging to see that  
universities such as Harvard and the  
University  of  Pennsylvania  are  
beginning to take notice of the increasing turn towards the International marketplace. The Vvall Street Journal Staff Reporter Gilbert  Amy Mark typist  - 
Fuchsberg wrote about Harvard's  
business school reviewing its M.B.A.  
program, sensing the need for greater  
global and technical skills ("Harvard  
Slates Broad Review Of Its M.B.A.,"  

Sept. 17, 1992). It is not only M.B.A. programs such as Harvard that seek to produce prepared college gradu­ates, but undergraduate business schools as well. This is where the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development (NDCIBD) has taken the initiative and is now at the forefront of such programs. 
It has been four years now since Notre Dame, through the NDCIBD, realized the importance that international experience would play in preparing students for the real world. As people, they recognize that the world is coming closer together, and as students, they know that with diligent effort they can make their own strides towards producing graduates prepared to "accept the global challenge." 
As a completely student-run organization, the NDCIBD offers students opportunities outside of the classroom, opportunities which give them the freedom to play an active and evident role in the international arena. The organization offers forums, roundtable din­ners, fireside chats, training seminars, and most notably, an extensive international intern program. 
The NDCIBD internship program has created productive and mutually beneficial relationships with companies from western and eastern Europe to Latin America and Asia. After this year, they hope to estab­lish relations with both South America and Africa, to complete a foundation with the business community on 
every continent. It is \Vith thgse program§ that thgy 
hope to share the Notre Dame spirit and commit to moving into the 21st century with globalization and cooperation propelling them. The NDCIBD began with one internship. In the last four years, the NDCIBD has established internship programs with multinational firms such as J.P. Morgan, and Honeywell, Mobil Oil, Bayer AG, and Dow Chemical, and plans to send forty to fifty of its members throughout the world to partake in real-world corporate training experiences next summer. 
This is where the future lies. It is the ideals that other universities are beginning to take notice of that the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development has made reality for the last four years. The NDCIBD is calling for all Notre Dame students ­business majors, government majors, science and the arts -to start thinking globally and prepare for the 21st century. 
BUSINESS BRIEFS 
Unemployment rate drops in September 
WASHINGTON -The nation's unemployment rate inched down to 7.5 percent in September, its lowest level since May, even though employers laid off another 57,000 workers last month, the Labor Department said Friday. It marked the third straight month that the "obless rate edged down by 0.1 percentage point after hitting an eight-year high of 7.8 percent in June. Many private economists had been forecasting a far bleaker report, worried that the jobless rate would actually go up, not down, because a huge government summer jobs program ended last month. 
Most Active Issues 
tliYSE IBM  Volume 3,288,300  Close 78.5  Cbaoge -1.625  
JWP  2,909,600  3.875  -3.125  
Merck OklaGE NASDAQ Electro I mag SeagateTech Biomet  2,851,900 2,484,100 3,105,600 2,821,000 2,139,900  43 34.875 15 12.5 14.375  -1.125 -.375 -.5 -3.375  
ComverseTch AMEX  1,970,300  1.25  
Pref Hlth Cre  583,200  15.625  -.375  
CitiznFst  550,700  2.875  -.5  
Amdahl  432,200  8.5  -.25  
ExplorLA  295,400  1.813  

L______________________..J 
Bush silent on compromise tax 
dozens of special tax reductions 
WASHINGTON (AP) 
and improvements in social Congressional negotiators waited programs. They include: Sunday for a signal from President designating 50 "enterprise zones" Bush on whether he would accept a and rewarding investors and compromise tax bill with expanded businesses that create jobs there; Individual Retirement Accounts, liberalizing tax-deductible IRAs, new urban aid programs and some and renewing a dozen business and relatively minor tax increases. individual tax breaks that expired 
Although the $27 billion bill in June 30.
George Bush 

includes several provisions that he The bill also would repeal the. favors, there were indications Bush luxury tax on expensive yachts,
but added, "There are a lot of good 

would use the tax increases as a planes, furs and jewels -but not
things in this bill. But it does raise 

reason to veto the measure. The the tax on high-priced cars. As
taxes to pay for good things ....

campaigning president has Bush proposed, it would relax tax
"There's no question that if he

renewed his promise not to raise rules for investors in real estate
(Bush) signs it, it's inconsistent 

taxes and daily criticizes and simplify the corporate
with his position, which is that he

Democratic nominee Bill Clinton's alternative minimum tax. · 
is not going to raise any taxes, even

record of agreeing to comparable Negotiators dropped another
though we all know he's raised a 

packages. Bush proposal, which would have
slew of them," Clinton said. 

Two of Bush's senior advisers given a $2,500 tax credit to some
Negotiators, led by Sen. Lloyd

sidestepped opportunities to frrst-time home buyers. 
Bentsen, D-Texas, and Rep. Dan

endorse the bill. In every other major taJ,>bill
Rostenkowski, D-Ill., agreed on 

White House Budget Director written in recent years, the
major outlines of the bill Saturday

Richard Darman referred to the bill administration, through Treasury
night and worked out final details 

as another Democratic effort to Department officials, played an
Sunday. They dropped two Senate­

raise taxes. He declined on NBC; active role. But this time Treasury
passed tax increases on the well­

TV's "Meet the Press" to say took no part at all.
to-do in an effort to meet

whether the legislation will become "I haven't heard anything from
Republicans' most obvious

law. them from the beginning," Bentsen
objection.

Reminded that the bill contains complained.
That still left numerous targeted

more than two dozen tax increases, Even before Democrats worked
tax increases in the bill, including a

Darman said, "It isn't a tax out the final terms of the catchall
few that Bush himself had

increase bill if he's going to sign it. bill, Republicans were showing
proposed last winter. Among the 

... The President will not raise their discontent. 
tax increases recommended by

taxes.... Period." 
Bush were those accelerating the

Housing Secretary Jack Kemp Rep. Bill Archer of Texas, senior
estimated tax payments from

said on ABC-TV's "This Week With Republican on the House Ways and 
corporations and higher-income

David Brinkley" that the bill's Means Committee, had shrugged
individuals and requiring securities 

urban-aid program, designed to off taking a hand in writing the
dealers to pay tax on the market

respond to the Los Angeles riots, compromise, saying, "I've been on
value of their inventories. ,, • ••• 1 1 ' !!isn~t going to get the job done.... this committee ... long enough to
Congress added many of its own

It's too little, too late." recognize when a train is moving
tax increases. They include

The official word from a White out."
delaying a scheduled drop in top

House spokesman who would not Senate Republican Leader Bob
estate-tax rates; eliminating a tax

be identified: "We have to see it to Dole of Kansas served notice there
saving for those who take lump­

evaluate it before we come out with could be an effort by the GOP to
sum pension payoffs, and raising

a position." block a final Senate vote on the bill, 
withholdings from some gambling

Clinton told reporters he, too, has which could spare Bush the trouble 
winnings.

not had a chance to analyze the bill of vetoing it. 
The tax increases would pay for 

Reduction in tax rate key Federal Reserve rec1eves
to increase in investment 
added pressure 
WASHINGTON (AP) -A sharp

By MARK KREJCI with all kinds of conflicts of 
drop in U.S. stock prices on

Business Writer interest...Investors say they will make you wealthy quick, but they Monday underscored the 
Eliminating or reducing the Capital don't tell you about high economy's bleak prospects and Gains tax will give the needed thrust commissions and often aren't as added renewed pressure on the to the U.S. economy to pull it out of good as putting your money in Federal Reserve to cut interest recession and on a path to growth savings bonds," said Schwab. rates, analysts said. according to Charles Schwab, Schwab advised students not to Many economists forecast that founder of the nation's largest enter the fields of financial 
further rate cuts could come at

discount brokerage company. consulting or investment banking the end of a key meeting of Fed Speaking Friday on "Careers in although they pay the highest wages policymakers Tuesday. 
the Financial Service Areas" at a after graduation. 
If the Fed does move, analystslecture sponsored by MBA Speaker Schwab told how many investment said that a variety of consumer

Series, Schwab said that the Capital bankers "work 18 hour days ... (and) 
and business interest rates,

Gains Tax "doesn't really tax the burn out or get blown out in two wealthy ... [butl really is a tax on job years. already at levels not seen in formation and capital formation." "You are better. off getting more than two decades, will fall 
He argues that it discourages experience working with a team, as well. businessmen from selling their acquiring the skill of communication But they were not at all cer­investments and thus discourages and learning to give-and-take," said tain that a new round of rate them from reinvesting in the Schwab. cuts would have any more im­economy which would create new Schwab's has differed from his 
pact than 24 previous reduc­

jobs. competitors in the securities market tions in curing what ails a sickSchwab said that the United States by charging a lower commission rate economy.
has the highest Capital Gains Tax in than full service companies such as Rate-cut speculation gainedthe world which "makes us very Merrill Lynch and Co. The drop., in urgency Monday after the Dowuncompetitive." Schwab's profits over the last 
Jones industrial average

Schwab proposed a five year quarter is due to the inability of his 
plunged by more than 100

moratorium or a reduction of the firm to offset losses through other Capital Gains Tax to help "jump forms of income revenue and a drop points in early trading. It later start" the economy. in investor activity. 80% of Schwab's steadied but was still down 
Aside from addressing financial revenue is derived from trading by over 50 points at mid­issues, Schwab also directed a good investors. afternoon. portion of his speech to students According to the Wall St. Journal, Some analysts blamed Mon­entering the job market. Schwab will continue to go on with 
day's sell-off, which followed a 

He stated that... "students not to be his growth strategy by expanding to 54-point drop on Friday, on in­
misled by possible short-term gains a European branch headquartered in vestor disappointment that theand to consider personal and London. Th is office, set to open in Fed did not immediately act toprofessional growth areas that have November, will target American ex­
lower interest rates following

the most promise for the future". patriates interested in investing in
Schwab said, "The world is loaded release of the un(lmployment
U.S. securities. 
report Friday. 


Viewpoint 

page 8 Tuesday, October 6, 1992 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndiaga 46556 (219) 239-5303 1992-93 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Monica Yant Managing Editor Business Manager John Rock Richard Riley 
News Editor ...................... David Kinney Advertising Manager ........Mike Hobbes Viewpoint Editor .................. Joe Moody Ad Design Manager ...... Kevin Hardman Sports Editor ............. Michael Scrudato Production Manager ......... Jeanne Blasi Accent Editor ............ Jahnelle Harrigan Systems Manager ..h ........Patrick Barth Photo Editor ........... Marguerite Schropp OTS Director .....................Dan Shinnick Saint Mary's Editor ...Anna Marie Tabor Controller ........................ David Beliveau 
The. Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Column present the views of the authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus through letters is encouraged. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol use has sobering realities 
Dear Editor: 
Upon reading Liam Mahoney's letter to the Observer on this date, I was compelled strongly to respond. 
In his letter, Mr. Mahoney defends adamantly the right to drink alcohol. With this state­ment, I have seen absolutely no contention. 
On occasion, even I have been seen partaking of the spirits (gasp!) 
What did and still alarms me is the further argument imply­ing very strongly that the choice to get drunk is one which is totally acceptable and outside the realm of morality. 
In other words, the decision is morally neutral and is, in Mr. Mahoney's words, "nobody's business." 
Now, at the bottom of this letter, you may notice the title written discreetly under my name and think, "Ah, ha! Just another administrator jumping to the defense of those stifling University policies." 
Not so. As a rector, I am in an excellent position to understand exactly why the choice to become intoxicated is one which affects not only the indi­vidual, but the larger commu­nity as well. 
The University of Notre Dame is about the business of forming a Christian community of caring individuals. 
Additionally, it attempts to educate young minds with the hopes that they are growing into responsible adults. 
We do not condemn intoxica-
DOONESBURY 
~RAY, HAVe YOU 8CEN 
A5 WSC!mTIOtJS ABOUT PUU.ING OV&R 5PW?ING EJABeS A5 8.0.? 
/ 
EJA/3e5? 
\ 
tion because we are on a big power trip, but, rather, because we witness first hand its effects on the community at large. 
Anyone who resides in a residence hall will, if he or she is honest, attest to the fact that, when another chooses to drink to intoxication, he or she lays the responsibility of his/her well-being directly upon the shoulders of the community. 
Almost always must this per­son be escorted (carried) back to his/her room, often times emptying the contents of his/her stomach on the shoes of a willing friend. 
The individual may also choose to leave some of that wonderful substance on the floor of the public bathrooms. And who will clean up that which didn't quite hit the bowl? Rarely is the drunk person able to accomplish this feat. More often than not, such responsi­bility falls to the most unfortu­nate "R.A. on duty." 
Frequently, the individual will lock himself/herself in a stall and proceed to pass out. It is always enjoyable to crawl like a worm under the door in order to remove the poor, sick person in order to ascertain whether there is any serious medical danger. \ 
After we have put the party monger to bed, another must volunteer to remain there to keep watch, making sure that our friend does not asphyxiate on vomit. 
And, of course, there are those rarer occasions which 
necessitate transporting the person to an emergency room because the person has ceased breathing or has gone into al­coholic coma. Then I am charged with the grim task of notifying the parents at 4:00 
a.m. that their son or daughter is in the Intensive Care Unit. 
(Also, I would be remiss if I neglected to remind Mr. Ma­honey that there have been several tragedies here at Notre Dame which involved students who were driving under the influence of alcohol.) 
Now, you might argue that we should ignore the intoxicated one. After all, it was his/her choice to drink and it should be none of our concern. 
I would contend, however, that because we are a caring community, it is our obligation to care for the individual who, whether by choice or by fate, cannot care for himself/herself. 
However, you can bet that the one who becomes incapacitated by choice will, after the hang­over, be required to assume some responsibility for that choice! 
Mr. Mahoney, do not fool yourself into believing that it is socially and morally acceptable to deliberately become drunk, for, by doing so, you become an onus and an imposition to those wonderful people who actually care about you. 
Judy L. Hutchinson Rector Breen-Phillips Hall Sept. 30, 1992 
8UTLA5T 
IA/E£1<., I 57lJPP!3I? AN Ai3'3CW1UY MAGNifiCENT 
8/A/P.' 

Speaker clarfies position on campus child care 
Dear Editor, 

Although I am grateful for the coverage The Observer has given to the issue of child care over the last week, I feel as though my argument for an on­site child care center was taken out of context in your Thursday, Oct. 1 cover story. Hopefully, this letter will clear up any misinterpretations. 
It is true I said that the need for an on-site child care center exists on the Notre Dame cam­pus. It is also true that one of the reasons I gave was that it was "good Catholic social pol­icy." 
However, my conclusion was more than just needing a child care center and my reason's were more than just Catholic social policy. 
During our child care forum I was arguing that the not-for­profit Early Childhood Devel­opment Center (ECDC) at Saint Mary's College should be the provider for a Notre Dame cen­ter and I gave three more sub­stantial reasons for my conclu­sion. 
First, I argued that the survey results from the Graduate Student Union's needs report presented to the Board of Trustees in February of 1992, the existence of a tremendously long waiting list at the Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) located at Saint Mary's College, and the emergence of the Give Kids a Chance Coali­tion all pointed toward an unambiguous need for addi­tional, high quality child care services at Notre Dame. 
Second, I said that with re­spect to graduate students, ECDC's waiting list is especially burdensome. 
Currently 24 children of graduate students attend ECDC and 24 more are on the waiting list. Thus, only one-half of the current graduate student child care demand is being met. 
The third reason I gave re­ferred to reasons why ECDC was a logical choice as a provider. 
On this point I said that Notre Dame has had a financial rela­tionship with ECDC since the 1970s and has already con­tributed a significant amount of money to this endeavor. 
I also stated that members of the Notre Dame faculty and administration sit on ECDC's board of directors and that eighty percent of the clientele at ECDC are the children of Notre Dame faculty, staff, and students. 
It is also apparent that ECDC is one of the finest child care providers in the region in terms of quality of child care (high care giver salaries, low turnover, and student to faculty ratios). 
It would be foolish to ignore their expertise and experience on this important issue. 
I concluded my discussion by saying that not only would Notre Dame be performing a disservice to its families by hir­ing a for-profit child care center to provide on-site child care, but also that it would be an in­sult to the staff and manage­ment of ECDC who have pro­vided 17 years of first-rate child care to the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community. 
Reynold F. Nesiba Fourth-Year Graduate Student Economics Department 

GARRY TRUDEAU QUOTE OF THE DAY 
I f}()N'T 
fi!DPWP's 
MYS£/.F; 
Bt/NG 
MARRI/31? 
ANI?AU.. 
\ 

'Ninety-nine percent of failures come from people who have the habit of making excuses.' 
George Washington Carver 

Multiply your thoughts. Submit: QUOTES, PO. Box Q, ND. IN 46556 
Viewpoint

Tuesday, October 6, 1992 page 9 

relate our experiences and or what a movie screen depicts. With the biggest news from 
and have offered Puja at the
alone. 
share what we had learned As many worlds as books and back home centering on 
temples. We have studied the
And the sad part is that it has 
through our travels in Asia. movies might open up, there is whether or not to enlarge the 
unemployment and poverty of a 
taken me until I am a senior in 
From our nervousness and no substitute for the real thing. seating capacity of the football 
nation of 843 million people,
college to realize what he was 
apprehension, none of us were And, hopefully, both Mr. Pagel stadium, the life I lived day in 
and seen it on the hopeless
trying to teach me eight very 
really able to express our feel­and Mr. Rao may take pride in and day out in America seems 
faces of beggars and homeless
long years ago. 
ings. but maybe through this the fact that their message has so trivial. 
children.
What brings me to remember 
article, what he really wanted made a difference, at least to a Though comparing something 
We have not only obtained the 
Fred's Laws of History is what I 
us to say will come out. small group of young Ameri­like the expansion of the 
knowledge of what India is, we
have experienced this fall 
As a means of parting com­cans. football stadium to life in India 
have gained the insight of what
studying abroad. 
ments, Mr. Rao told us some­A classroom can teach your may seem a little tenuous, it is 
life is in India from expe­
The program of study that I 
thing that really stuck with me. mind, but no classroom can not. It shows how life in the riencing it. 
am on is called the Semester 
He tried to explain to us a con­teach you what life is like. ivory tower of education can 
What I will take back with me
Around the World. Though the 
cept that he had found to be The majority of our time was blind your eyes to what exists 
from India is a deep-rooted un­
title makes it sound like a vaca­
true in his lifetime of politics: spent in Madras, India. We around you. 
derstanding of people. No mat­
tion, the real purpose has been 
the difference between knowl­went to school there, met good The point I am trying to make 
ter what language they speak,
to expose twenty American col­
edge and insight. friends there, but no classroom is that so many people in 
what color their skin is, or what
lege students to the people and 
Knowledge, he explained, can or lecture hall could ever teach America have life so good, that 
religion or caste they belong to, 
cultures of the countries around 
be gained through studies and what one walk down any street they have forgotten how base 
people are the same the world
the globe. 
books, or policy papers and in India can. and mean the real world can 
over.
Eleven metropolitan cities in 
position statements. While From the abject poverty to the be. 
Within every person there is
eight Far Eastern nations 
knowledge in itself is very valu­ultra-modern business center, We spend our time and ener­
that same inner strength and
constituted the bulk of the first 
able, it will never truly help one India is a land of unbelievable gies arguing about trivial ques­
oneness that touches you so
month of travel. 
understand different people in diversity; even walking down tions when fundamental issues 
deeply when you experience it, 
It seemed like every other 
different cultures. one street, you go from one are mostly, and conveniently, 
that you shed your own super­
day we were in a dramatically 
ThB mpst important point Mr. extreme to the other without ignored. 
ficiality.
different culture, eating exotic 
Rao pointed out was that insight ever breaking stride. I am definitely guilty of this 
This is something that I truly
native food that most fast food 
can be attained only by India has truly opened my too. What I spend going out on 
believe, and the people I have
restaurants have made a poor 
experience and putting yourself eyes to an entirely different a date in America is more than 
met around the world have
attempt to copy, and listening to 
in the place of the people you world, one that I would never the average Indian earns in a 
borne the truth of that state­
a tumult of noises and lan­
want to understand. What have known existed if I had month. 
ment. After living in India, and
guages. 
knowledge can never teach you, been in contact with book I had no idea of what back­
after travelling the rest of the
At one point, our group of 
insight will show you. knowledge and grade point av­breaking labor really was until I 
world, I will forever look at the
students met with the Prime 
Strange as it may sound, the erages. saw women working from 
world through different eyes ­
Minister of India, Mr. P. V. 
most powerful leader of the This country has taught me sunup to dark doing jobs that 
hopefully, eyes that are open to
Narasimha Rao. 
largest democracy in the world about life -the best and the very few Americans would ac­
the world around me.
Though it took some time to 
and a small-town high school worst of it. So much of what I cept. The perseverance and
sink in that the most powerful I think Mr. Pagel and Mr. Rao 
teacher from Texas were both used to think was important patience of the Indian people is 
man in the world's largest would both agree that this is 
trying to get across the very back home seems so frivolous amazing. They accept the life 
not just knowledge, but it is
democracy had taken time out 
same message: that you have when I see the life that sur­they are given and make the
to meet twenty American col­truly insight. 
to experience life by opening rounds me every day in India; most of it. 
lege students, it shocked us 
your eyes to the external possi­the friends I have made and the The essence of India is im­
even more when he did not give Jeff Fisher is a graduate
bilities that surround you. people I meet on the street possible to capture in words or 
student living in Fisher Hall. 
us a speech or lecture us on 
The worst possible thing to do every day are the best teachers on ftlm. There is no other way
India. 
is become complacent or satis­imaginable about what us really to understand India than to
Instead, Mr. Rao asked us to 
fied with what a book teaches important in life. stuff yourself onto a crowded 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Printed names cause unwanted humiliation 
Dear Editor: 

We would like to congratulate The Observer for the fantastic job you did in reporting the raid at The Commons. 
We take great pride in knowing that our student newspaper is so committed to journalistic excellence that they would print all 100 names of fellow students who got busted. We would also like to thank you for pointing out the socially important people in their own paragraph. 
We consider it quite an ac­complishment that you broke this story when every other news source in the greater South Bend area ignored it. 
We would like to give Julie Barrett due credit for her roleli in boosting the excellence level of our prestigious paper. Barrett was right on top of the Turtle Creek incident and re­ported the proper names at that time. 
Now, she has outdone herself with such impressive writing in her article concerning the 100 involved. 
In closing, we enjoyed the article because it further humiliated our friends and let us know others who were busted too. We anxiously await the next major raid in South Bend so we can read it in The Observer and worship Barrett's work. 
Patrick Finn Dan Wietecha Off-Campus 
Sept. 30, 1992 
It doesn't matter what way you need to say it. It doesn't matter what you have to say. It doesn't matter how it occurred to you. It doesn't matter what occurred to you. 
All that matters is the address: 
Viewpoint 
P.O. Box Q ND, IN 46556 
Moynihan should exit God's house 
Dear Editor: 
As Pro-Life Sunday ap­proaches, I suggest that the Laetare Medal display be moved from its present site within Sacred Heart Church. 
A display honoring Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan should be placed in a more ap­propriate spot; perhaps to a more visible location where the appetite for public acclaim could be better sated. 
In today's political environ­ment there is nothing heroic about voting for welfare pro­grams; buying votes is a time­worn tradition among politi­cians. 
The real test of character lies in helping somebody that can't pay you back with a vote. A true prophet is not lauded by the secular press; rather he is despised for telling people a hard truth. Telling people that abortion is an answer is taking the easy way out. 
The Laetare medals are given to honor the "sons and daugh­ters of the Church." If Senator Moynihan were a true son, he would mirror his heavenly Fa­ther -the Author of Life. 
However, he has misused his power to advocate abortion. 

Since the Second Vatican Council called abortion an "abominable crime" it follows that Senator Moynihan is a facilitator of criminal activity. 
Granted, only God knows an individual's heart. However, we know ihat abortion is wrong. It is the destruction of a human life; a life made in the image of God. Therefore, this man should not be honored in our Father's house. 
Christopher J. Godfrey Law Student 
Sept. 27' 1992 


Accent 

Tuesday, October 6, 1992 page 10 
I 
' 
' 
' ~ ' ~ 
I 
' ~ 
f 
I 
,
, ' ~ 
t 
' ~ 
, 
! r 
I 
I 
Singing with the best 
Karaoke hits South Bend establishments, offers creative outlet 
BY JOHN COWAN 
Accent Writer 
It has taken Michiana by storm. You can hardly find a bar without it. It's Laser Karaoke, and according to David Bridges, of Bridges and Clark Entertain­ment Enterprises, "It's not just a fad, it's a growing phenomenon." 
What is Karaoke? 
"It's not just a 'sing-a-long,"' said Bridges. "It's entertainment for everybody and you get to be the entertainer." 
A Laser Karoke machine plays special twelve inch laser disks with music and back-up vocals while displaying the song lyrics on a video screen. 
A brave soul from the audience is then able to sing the lead vocals, which is mixed in with the rest of the music, becoming the lead singer-and the center of attention, according to Bridges. 
Actually pronounced, KA-ROW-KEY, this form of entertainment began in Japan about eigteen years ago. It was brought to the United States just a few years ago by entrepreneurial enter­tainers like Bridges, who said he for.eSiJ.W the raging success Karaoke would have here in the U.S. 
Bridges, one of the first entertainers to bring Karaoke to the Michiana area, has been in the entertainment business for many years, having been a disc jockey for WNDU, as well as a singer in local bands, he said. He estimated that there are about twenty Karaoke machines in the area. 
Their success has been extraordinary, he said. 
"I've played a lot of places and I've never seen anyplace that it didn't work," he said. 
Who does it? 
"Everybody does it," he said. People from all walks of life, and people of all ages are doing Karaoke. 
"There are people who won't do it," he said. "but even people who say they won't often change their mind after they get a few drinks in them." 
As for the talent on the Karaoke circuit, he said, "You'd be surprised. There are some fantastic voices out there. It's like 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly,' but most people are mediocre. And you'd be surprised at how good that sounds when it's mixed in with the mu­sic." 
Bridges and Clark Entertainment Enterprises uses some of the very best equipment available, by Pioneer Audio, and Bridges is also a Pioneer dealer, he said. 
However, Bridges said that it bothers him that people going out on the karaoke scene with terrible equipment. Accoding to Mr. Bridges, one can purchase "Karaoke in a box" for about $2000. This package includes a karaoke player, and a starter set of 10 disks. 
Would-be karaoke-jockeys can then use any sort of amplifier with their karaoke machine. The result, he said, is a much inferior sound and these less­than-professional systems can give people the wrong idea about karaoke. 
Besides using professional equipment, Bridges and Clark are professionals themselves. They not only adjust the intensity of the background music and vocals to fit each indivual, but add effects and echo to help out those whose voices are somewhat less than mediocre. 
They have over 100 disks and add to their selection as new disks are released. Although he admits that lately country music has been very popular, his music selection ranges from Hank Williams to Prince, with everything in between. 

They also make recordings of performances. Since the background music is already recorded, when the vocals are mixed in, the result sounds remarkably professional. 
"Karaoke changes people," according to Bridges. "Especially if they can sing half-way decent." It is a great boost to the ego, he said. If you can talk, you can sing and getting up there a few times can make a shy person more outgoing. 
"Everyone wants to, or would like to, be a star," Bridges said. Karaoke gives anyone with the courage to get up on stage a chance, he said. 
Karaoke has been such a hit that after playing a few days at a location, Bridges said that he is usually asked to stay for several months. He averages about three to four months at a location. His show was so popular at one location that after seven months of mostly stand­ing-room-only business, the owners decided to go with live bands since they would not draw such "large crowds." 

Bridges and Clark Entertainment Enterprises is in its fourth month at Pappy's, in Buchanan, and is also at Lynn's Dockside, in Elkhart. They will also be at Bleachers on Sundays for the rest of October. 
In addition, Bridges and Clark Entertainment Enterprises are available for private parties and dorm parties. The cost is about $250-$300 for each night. Bridges and Clark Entertainment Enterprises can be reached for booking or questions at 232-1772. 
Like Paradis, album looks better than it sounds 
By ROLANDO DE AGUIAR 
Music Critic 
You've seen her before. 
Vanessa Paradis, the sultry Frenchwoman with the big ol' forehead, flutters around a bird cage in Chanel's TV ads for Coco, and still looking like the supermodel she is, pours out a big bottle of the stuff on many magazines' back pages. 
Paradis doesn't look quite as glamorous on the cover of her self-titled American debut, but she does have a certain adolescent allure. Personal pedophilic interests outstanding, Paradis is hardly a little girl. Though she has been a musical sensation in France since she was fourteen, she's practically an adult these days at nineteen. 
Unfortunately, her musical development has yet to catch up with time. On this album, Paradis does little more than sing and look pretty. She does the latter very well. 
Vanessa Paradis reeks of Lenny Kravitz. It should, because he wrote the songs, arranged them, and produced the entire album. Kravitz has brought his personal obsession with old stuff into the studio again, refusing to do anything original in his desire to mimic the creations of others. 
Fortunately, Kravitz and Paradis stay away from covers on this album. Almost. We've all heard our share of Velvet Underground covers, most of them bad. But Vanessa, Lenny, and 
Vanessa Paradis 
Vanessa Paradis 
Produced by 

Lenny Kravitz 
* 1/2 
(out of five) 

company may have reached a nadir with their rendition of ''I'm Waiting for the Man." 
The song's classic guitar intro, originally performed by Lou Reed, is flawlessly imitated by a Kravitz stooge. But then Paradis enters with her strikingly nasal voice. She whines her way through Harlem, looking for a fix. A backup singer chimes in. Paradis keeps whining, and finally sings through her mouth when she finds the dealer. Are the 

singer's vocal changes her own Vanessa Paradis makes her American debut with her self-titled album 
artistic interpretation? Maybe. Are they annoying? Yes. 
Before we encounter drug dealers on Harlem Streets with ''I'm Waiting for the Man," we get to hear about Kravitz and Paradis' "Natural High." This song kicks off the album, probing emotional depths as thoroughly as any White Lion ditty. 
"All I give/ Is all I got/And all I am/Ain't what I'm not," Paradis sings (Kravitz's words) along with Kravitz's music. Whatever, Lenny. 
Kravitz once showed lyrical promise with "Mr. Cab Driver," but has fallen far with this album. The embarrassing "Natural High" is mirrored by "Lonely Rainbows,'' whose lyrics could easily be ad script for Shirt Tales or Care Bears. Paradis has the vocal maturity of a fourth-grader, and would probably get away with it. 
"I know a place/ Over the lonely lonely rainbow/ Where we can make things right/ Over the lonely lonely lonely lonely/ Rainbow. " 
But while these lyrics make all but the most ignorant listener cringe, everyone will shudder when they hear "Be My Baby," the most blatant, unadulterated Supremes ripoff since the mid-'70s. Berry Gordy isn't even listed in the song's credits. 

Kravitz, who latched onto Lisa Bonet a few years ago, when her career was on the rise, has now latched onto Paradis. His presence makes her artistically and commercially viable, despite the fact that he does nothing original. 
Paradis writes neither lyrics nor music. She doesn't play a musical instrument. She sings badly. But at least she looks good doing it. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classijieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds 
charge Is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
277-4156 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
L.....-_N_O_T_IC_E_s___..~fl====W=A=N=T=E=D~ 
ATTENTION: For more information and assistance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, THE OBSERVER urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219-277­9121 or800-439-5313. 
WORD PROCESSING 256-6657 
TYPING 287-4082 
Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll Ll LILI Ll Ll 
LONG ISLAND BUS Sign up this week, only $115 for round trip! Leaving Fri. evening, 1 0/16 and will be back Fri. night, 10/23. LIMITED seating. Check your mail for flyers. Anthony x1867 
Typing 237-1949 Spee-Dee Wordprocessing 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
COMPETE WITH THE BEST 
5TH ANNUAL AT&T INVESTMENT CHALLENGE 
TAKE YOUR FICTIONAL $500,000 BROKERAGE ACCOUNT AND MAKE MILLIONS= 
JUST LIKE WALL STREET 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: OCTOBER 30, 1992 HURRY! DON'T DELAY 
1-800-545-1975 EXT. 12 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
ILOST & FOUND I 
DID YOU LOSE YOUR GLASSES? pair of brown wire-rimmed glasses found Wed. night in front of the Snite. Call Jim at x3411 to claim 
**************** ...... *· *******•* ****** HELP!!! I am blind and need you to restore my vision!!! 
LOST: One pair of tortoise shelled maroon glasses and case. Please call Mick at X1856 or heal my affliction in 438 Stanford. 
LOST: LOST ON STEPHEN FIELDS AFTER FOOTBALL PRACTICE...SMALL CAMOFLAGE LEATHER WALLET WITH 1.0., LICENSE, ECT. PLEASE RETURN!I KATH ANNE X4011 ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT-fisheries. Earn $5000+/month. Free transportation! Room & Board! Over 8000 openings. No experience necessary. Male or Female. For employment program call Student Employment Services at 1-206-545­4155 ext. A5584. 
Earn Free Spring Break Trips & $2500 Selling Spring Break Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida I Best Trips & Prices! 1-800-678-6386. 
STUDENTS or ORGANIZATIONS. Promote our Florida Spring Break packages. Earn MONEY and FREE trips. Organize SMALL or LARGE groups. Call Campus marketing. 800-423-5264 
I would love to ride home with you to ST. LOUIS for Oct. Break. Bill x2187 
NEED TO GET TO HOUSTON, TEXAS, or anywhere along the way over October Break? We need a rider/driver to help drive rental car. Must be at least 21 yrs old to drive rental car. Costs will be relatively inexpensive. Please call Jill, Carrie, or Allison at x4758 ASAP if interested!!!! 
EARN $1,500 WEEKLY mailing our circulars!...Begin NOW!. .. FREE packet! SEYS, Dept. 100, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 38018-4000. 
I BUY BYUs X2319 
I AM A 21 YR. OLD COLLEGE STUDENT EMPLOYED BY STUDENT PAINTERS. I'VE BEEN PROMOTED TO EXEC. POSITION AND NEED MANAGERS FOR SUMMER EMPLOYMENT. ELKHART. MICH. CITY. LAPORTE, NILES, THREE RIVERS/SCHOOLCRAFT. SALES EXP. PREFERRED, BUT NOT NESS. MUST HAVE GREAT ADD. AND WORK HARD. AVG. EARNINGS 8,000. CALL 1-800­543-3793 ASK FOR TOM SMITH. 
Need ride to S. Jersey/Phila. area for Oct. break. Will pay $$! Call Maureen @ 2862 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
2 room efficiency , utilities paid $7 a day, 288-0955 
Faculty or Graduate Student to share large home ND/UPM area Deposit-Lease-References 2 BR house, basement, garage, stove, refrigerator. @ 1115 Vassar, NW near campus. $300/mo + Utilities. Yr lease & deposit. Grad students (20K) preferred. 272-1265 
FOR SALE 
CHEAP! FBI/U.S. SEIZED 89 MERCEDES ......... $200 
86 vw.......................... $ 50 
87 MERCEDES .......... $100 65 MUSTANG ............. $ 50 Choose from thousands starting $25. FREE lnformation-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2929 Copyright #IN11KJC. 
BIKE for$20 call 273-1932 
For MARY KAY PRODUCTS Call Rita Delivery on Campus 234-6524 
Old Gibson Les Paul Custom electric guitar, 1969, black, $1000. 277-9882 
2 RT TIX SB -WASH DC FOR OCT BREAK $150@ CALL 273-2752 
82 Pontiac ior sale, 84000 miles, clean, runs well, am/fm stereo. Asking $600, call 239-5683. 
I TICKETS 
CHEAP TICKET r.t S.B to Norfolk Va. for fall break: $175/b.o x1983 
NEED PSU AND STANFORD TIX CALL JOE OR JAY X1760 
I NEED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS.272-6306 
Please help! I! I'm in DESPERATE need of Penn State GA's ..... 
Call Ann 284-5241 
TRADE: 2 BYU GA'S FOR 2 BC GA'S (715-359-0222) 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ PLEASE SELL ME 3 Boston College GAs or student tix. Call Jill @ x4758 or x4721. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Need Penn St. Tlx Tony x1786 
FOR SALE 2 Pitt GA's Best offer by 10/5 call Ted 513-492-5190. 
I NEED TWO BYU GA'S FOR TWO CHICAGO INNER-CITY YOUTH. JON 232-0550 I NEED 2 BC GA'S!!! call Dena x2191 
IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR BYU... CALL KPO AT x1943 
IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR BYU ... CALL KPO AT x1943 
IN DIRE NEED OF 2 GA'S FOR BYU ... CALL KPO AT x1943 
2 air tickets to San Francisco LV 10/17/92 return 10/24/92 400.00 for both 258 7935 
NEED 4 PENN ST. GA'S NICK X4284 
NEED PENN STATE TIX-call Sam x4842 
NEED 4 BYU GA's Call Dan at 233-4140 Leave message. 
ALUMNI SEEKING GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME. LEAVE MESSAGE AT 618-439-3338. 
Needed 4 tickets Penn State. Call 1-800-922-BEAR. 
I NEED 1 BC GA, DAVE, x4506 
i need 2 penn state GA's call lisa X 4845 leave a message 
I need P.S.U. tix Bob 3398 
WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR GOOD PENN ST GA"s 2773097 
Will pay top dollar for 2 or 3 football tickets·for any of the following home games, Oct. 24, Nov. 7, Nov. 14. Call collect -ask for Joe Murphy. 8 A.M. to 4:30P.M. 614-382-1104, 7:30P.M. to 11 PM 614-389-4303 weekdays. Weekends 9 A.M. to 9P.M. 614-389­4303. 
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ HAVE HAVE I HAVE A LOT P I T T GAs P I T T GAs Will sell CHEAP cause my friends cannot go on the 
BEST ROADTRIP EVER!!!! Call me Philip 287-9118 @@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 
HELP! HELP! HELP! NEED 2-3 BC GA'S. MARY 284-5114 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
YOU  HAVE  WHAT  
I  WANT  
AND  WILL  PAY FOR I  

T 

Y E S, Y 0 U K N 0 W W H AT I'M TALKING ABOUT 
NEED YOUR GAs AND YOU NEED MY MONEY 
CALL ME ANYTIME!!!! K Y L I E 234-9433 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
WANTED 3 GA's ND VS BYU 10/24 CALL COLLECT 215-355­7131 RON 
PITT TICKETS!!! FOR SALE CALL D. J. or SCOTT@ 1246 
I have 2 BYU, 50 yd line GA's!! I want to trade these for any 
2 Penn St. GA's. Joe x1395 

$$NEED 1 Penn. St. ticket call Eric at x4284 will pay good money$$ 
TICKETS NEEDED-tO plus BYU GA's-Dan #1852 $$4U 
I need 2 B.C. GA's desperately! Call Allison at x2529----­
I need 2 penn state GA'S Call at x2535--------------
HeyNiff 

JUDGEMENT DAY IS COMING!!! GET THE T-SHIRT!!! 
OFF-CAMPUS GODDESSES 

MEN AND WOMEN NEEDED FOR FREE HAIRCUTS. CALL COSIMO'S 277-1875. 
I PERSONAL 

ADOPT: A loving, happy Calif. family can provide financial security, excellent education and wonderful future for your baby. Please let us help you in this difficult time. Confidential and legal. Medical expenses paid. Collect anytime. (818) 246-1763 Attractive and physically well­endowed Notre Dame student with good personality needs a date for Oct. 10 SYR. 
I will provide transportation, beverages, and hours of fun whoever answers this ad. 
This is not a joke. I really need a date. 
You can call me AI. .. at 283-2703. 
LEARN TO SKYDIVE! Classes every Sat. & Sun. at 8:00 am Eastern Time. Train and jump the same day. Modern equipment ant training programs. Licensed instructors. FFI call Skydive Hastings (616) 948-2665. 
••••••• Campus Musicians •••••••• There will be an informational meeting for all those interested in performing on a campus CD Wed. 
Oct. 7 at 9:00 in the SUB office in LaFortune. Fo Mo InFo call Ryan at x1249 or 239-7757. 
Let's go camping! What-ev-er 
HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY HEY THERE ARE ONLY TWO HOURS PER WEEK OF QUALITY COLLEGE RADIO IN SOUTH BEND. TUES. 12 AM-2 AM NOCTURNE. Don't be a Barney, Listen to some sweet tunes, and maybe even win a free disc! 
88.9 FM DONE. 
MARGE 
Physician and Attorney wish to provide loving home for your child filled with hugs, kisses, laughter. Medical/Legal Paid. Call Betsy Collect (708) 655-3124. 
F =caliente! 
DOME-POVERTY 
Congradulations Randall and Beth -Frank, Mo, Gar, Pete 
I need a ride to the Univ. Of Illinois at Chigago on 10/1 0/92 for the GRE. Call Shonda #4959 
We miss you Colleen Casey! Love Alicia, Ann and Carrie------------------­
Chris Carrigan rocks my world Happy 365th kim------------

Schembechler files lawsuit 
DETROIT (AP) Bo "We'll file and answer to it as Schembechler, fired as president soon as we receive it," Kruse of the Detroit Tigers shortly said. "All I know about it is what before Tom Monaghan sold the I've heard from the media. We team, soon may soon face the haven't seen the summons or pizza baron in court. the complaint." 
Schembechler filed a breach­Monaghan sold the Tigers in of-contract lawsuit Monday in August to Mike Ilitch, owner of Wayne County Circuit Court the rival Little Caesars Pizza against the Domino's Pizza Inc. chain and the NHL's Detroit Red owner. Wings, for a reported $85 
million. 
In the suit, Schembechler said he was led to believe he had a Monaghan, 55, said during an 10-year agreement with the August news conference that he Tigers when he was hired in fired Schembechler because he early 1990. was threatening a lawsuit. 
"Monaghan and the Tigers Monaghan said he received a made promises to Bo," said letter July 17 from Golden Joseph Golden, a Southfield suggesting the two sides try "to attorney representing the quietly conclude" former University of Michigan Schembechler's "ongoing football coach and athletic contractual relationship" with director. "He would have never the Tigers. have left his job at Michigan if He said a similar letter was he knew this would happen. He sent to Hitch. could have stayed there forever." Monaghan said he felt the use of 

John Kruse, Monaghan's the words "quietly conclude" lawyer, said neither he nor suggested Schembechler would Monaghan would comment on make the dispute public if he 
lver Get Somebody Total~ Wosted! 
the lawsuit. didn't cooperate. 

AMERICAN  LEAGUE  
East Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  
x-Toronto  96  66  .593  
Milwaukee  92  70  .568  4  
Baltimore  89  73  .549  7  
Cleveland  76  86  .469  20  
New York  76  86  .469  20  
Detroit  75  87  .463  21  
Boston  73  89  .451  23  
Weal Division  
w  L  Pet  GB  
x-Oakland  96  66  .593  
Minnesota  90  72  .556  6  
Chicago  86  76  .531  10  
Texas  77  85  .475  19  
Calilornia  72  90  .444  24  
Kansas City  72  90  .444  24  
Seattle  64  98  .395  32  
NATIONAL  LEAGUE  

East Division 
w L Pet GB x-Pittsburgh 96 66 .593 Montreal 87 75 .537 9 St. Louis 83 79 .512 13 Chicago 78 84 .481 18 New York 72 90 .444 24 Philadelphia 70 92 .432 26 Weal Division 
w L Pet GB x-Atlanta 98 64 .605 Cincinnati 90 72 .556 8 San Diego 82 80 .506 16 Houston 81 81 .500 17 San Francisco 72 90 .444 26 Los Angeles 63 99 .389 35 x-won division title. z..denotea first game was a win. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Saturday's Gamea 
Boston 7, New York 5 
Baltimore 7, Cleveland 1 
Toronto 3, Detroit 1 
Oakland 10, Milwaukee 3 
Kansas City 7, Minnesota 6, 11 innings 
Calnornia 4, Texas 2 
Seattle 7, Chicago 2 Sunday's Games Boston 8, New York 2 Bahimore 4, Cleveland 3, 13 innings Toronto 7, Detroit 4 Minnesota 6, Kansas City 0 
TRANSACTIONS 
BASEBALL American League 
TEXAS RANGERS-Placed Dickie Than, short­stop, on waivers tor the purpose ol giving him his unconditional release. Assigned Terry Mathews, pitcher; Mario Diaz, infielder; and Jack Daugherty, outfielder, outright to Oklahoma City of the American Association. Activated Julio Franco, In­fielder; Danny Leon, pitcher; and John Russell, catcher, from the disabled list. Extended the con­tracts of Tom Grieve, vice president and general manager, and Sandy Johnson, assistant general manager tor player personnel and scouting, for one year, through the 1994 season. National League 
CHICAGO CUBS-Retained Billy Connors, pitching coach; Tom Trebelhorn, dugout coach; Chuck Cottier, third base coach; Jose Marttnez, ftrst base coach; and Billy Williams, hitting instructor. Announced they will not renew the contract of Sammy Ellis, bullpen coach. Named Brett Fischer assistant trainer; Garren Giemont physical devel­opment coordinator; Danny Monzon director of In­ternational scouting and southeast scouting re­gional supervisor; Rod Fridley national cross­checker-east; Jesse Flores western regional scout­ing supervisor; Doug Gassaway central regional scouting supervisor; Billy Blitzer northeast regional scouting supervisor; Eddie Ford roving northeast scout· and Steve Fuller area scout.
LOS ANGELES DODGERS-Named Reggie Smtth minor league field coordinator. MONTREAL EXPOS-Extended the contract of Felipe Alou, manager, through the 1994 season. 
NEW YORK METS-Exercised the 1993 options in the contracts ol Sid Fernandez, pitcher, and Howard Johnson, outfiekler. 
SAN DIEGO PADREs-Renewed the contract of Rick Monday, broadcaster. 
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS-Announced the resignation ol Dave Nahabedian, director of scout­ing, effective Dec. 31. 
BASKETBALL National Buketball Association DENVER NUGGETS-Signed LaPhonso Ellis, forward, to a five-year contract. . GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS-Stgned Steve Henson, guard, to a one-year contract. 
HOUSTON ROCKETS-Traded David Wood, forward, to the San Antonio Spurs for a 1993 sec­ond-round draft pick. Signed Tree Rollins, center. 
INDIANA PACERS-Signed Malik Sealy, lor­ward, to a multiyear contract. . 
UTAH JAZZ-Agreed to terms with Isaac Austin, center on a two-year contract. Conti~entaf Basketball Association . 
FORT WAYNE FURY-Signed Anthony Corbitt and Travis Williams, forwards. QUAD CITY THUNDER-Signed Harold Ellis, guard. 
rRI-CITY CHINOOK-Signed Steve Hayes, nead coach and general manager. to a two-year contraCI extension. Global B..ketball Association . . 
GREENVILLE SPINNERS-Stgned Ttm Hoskins, forward, and Willis Woodruff and Domek McQueen, quards. 
JACKSON JAMMERS-Traded Keith Nelson, forward, to the Louisville Shooters for 1993 sec­ond-and fourth-round draft picks. Signed Ketth Galles, guard. 
LOUISVILLE SHOOTERS-Signed Clarence Thompson, forward. 
Scholarships Available 
Call 1-800-423-5515 
For a recorded message giving details 
Shumate & Associates 
LID  Streak  Home  Away  
7-3  Won 3  53-28  43-38  
z-7-3  Lost 2  53-28  39-42  
6-4  Won 2  43-38  46-35  
4-6  Lost 2  41-40  35-46  
Z-4-6  Lost 2  41-40  35-46  
z-4-6  Lost 3  38-42  37-45  
z-6-4  Won 2  44-37  29-52  
LID  Streak  Home  Away  
z-4-6  Won 2  51-30  45-36  
6-4  Won  48-33  42-39  
z-4-6  Lost 4  50-32  36-44  
z-5-5  Won 1  36-45  41-40  
5-5  Lost  41-40  31-50  
z-4-6  Lost 1  44-37  28-53  
6-4  Won 3  38-43  26-55  
LID  Streak  Home  Away  
z-7-3  Won 1  53-28  43-38  
4-6  Lost 1  43-38  44-37  
6-4  Won 1  45-36  38-43  
3-7  Won  43-38  35-46  
3-7  Lost  41-40  31-50  
z-6-4  Lost 1  41-40  29-52  
LID  Streak  Home  Away  
7-3  Lost 1  51-30  47-34  
z-5-5  Lost 1  53-28  37-44  
z-3-7  Won 1  45-36  37-44  
8-2  Won 3  47-34  34-47  
z-5-5  Won 1  42-39  30-51  
2-8  Lost 3  37-44  26-55  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
Saturday'• Games  

New York 2, Pittsburgh 1 Cincinnati 6, San Francisco 1 Philadelphia 3, St. Louis 2 Montreal 3, Chicago 1 Atlanta 1, San Diego 0, 5 1/2 innings, rain Houston 3, Los Angeles 2, 13 innings 
Sunday's Games Pittsburgh 2, New York 0 San Diego 4, Atlanta 3, 12 innings San Francisco 6, Cincinnati 2, 13 innings St. Louis 6, Philadelphia 3 Chicago 3, Montreal 2 Houston 3. Los Anoeles 0 
CHARLOTTE RAGE-Named Roman Gabriel general manager. HOCKEY National Hockey League 
BOSTON BRUINS-Signed Glen Wesley, de­tenseman. to a two-year contract. 
DETROIT RED WINGS-Sent Don McSween, defenseman, to San Diego of the lnternattonal Hockey League. 
LOS ANGELES KINGS-Assigned Dave 
Tretowicz, defenseman; Mike Vukonich, center; 
and David Goverde, goalie, to Phoenix of the 
International Hockey League. Returned Fred 
Brathwaite, goalie; Cam Danyluk, left wing; and 
Chris Wing, right wing, to their junior teams. 
MINNESOTA NORTH STARS-Signed Dan Quinn, right wing, to a one-year contract. Recalled Brad Berry, detenseman, from Kalamazoo of the International Hockey League. Assigned Derrick Smith, lett wing, to Kalamazoo. 
NEW YORK ISLANDERS-Re-signed Jeff 
Norton, detenseman, to a muftiyear contract. 
Assigned Dave Chyzowski, Brad Dalgarno, 
Zigmund Paiffy and Scott Scissons, forwards, and 
Wayne McBean, Jeff Finley and Dennis Vaske, 
detensemen, to Capital District of the Amencan 
Hockey League. 
Final Statistics 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
BATTING-Sheffield, San Diego, .330; 
VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, .324; Roberts, Cincinnati, 
.323; Kruk, Philadelphia, .323; Gwynn, San Diego, 
.317; Bonds, Pillsburgh, .311; Pendleton, Atlanta, 
.311. 
RUNS-Bonds, Pittsburgh, 109; DHollins, 
Philadelphia, 104; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 103; 
Sandberg, Chicago, 100; Grissom, Montreal. 99; 
Pendleton, Atlanta, 98; Biggio, Houston, 96. 
RBI-Daulton, Philadelphia, 109; Pendleton, 
Atlanta, 105; McGriff, San Diego, 104; Bonds, 
Pillsburgh, 103; Sheffield, San Diego, 100; 
Bagwell, Houston, 96; DHollins, Philadelphia, 93; 
LWalker, Montreal, 93; Murray, New York, 93. 
HITS-Pendleton, Atlanta, 199; VanSlyke, 
Plllsburgh, 199; Sandberg, Chicago, 186; Grace, 
Chicago, 185; Sheffield, San Diego, 184; Grissom, 
Montreal, 180; Finley, Houston, 177. 
DOU BLES-VanSiyke, Pillsburgh, 45; 
Lankford, St. Louis, 40; WCiark, San Francisco, 40; 
Duncan, Philadelphia, 40; Grissom, Montreal, 39; 
Pendleton, Atlanta, 39; Grace, Chicago, 37; 
Murray, New York, 37. 
TRIPLES-DSanders, Atlanta, 14; Finley, 
Houston, 13; VanSlyke, Pittsburgh, 12; Alicea, St. 
Louis, 11; Butler, Los Angeles, 11; Morandini, 
Philadelphia, 8; Offerman, Los Angeles, 8; 
DeShields, Montreal, 8; Sandberg, Chicago, 8. 
HOME RUNS-McGriff, San Diego, 35; Bonds, Pillsburgh, 34; Sheffield, San Diego, 33; DHollins, Philadelphia, 27; Daulton, Philadelphia, 27; Sandberg, Chicago, 26; LWalker, Montreal, 23. 
STOLEN BASES-Grlssom, Montreal, 78; DeShields, Montreal, 46; Finley, Houston, 44; Roberts, Cincinnati, 44; OSmlth, St. Louis, 43; Lankford, St. Louis, 42; Nixon, Atlanta, 41; Butler. Los Angeles, 41. 
PITCHING (18 Decisions)-Tewksbury, St. Louis, 16-5, .762, 2.16; Giavine, Atlanta, 20-8, .714, 2.76; Leibrandt, Atlanta. 15-7, .682, 3.36; Morgan, Chicago, 16-8, .667, 2.55; Cone, New York, 13-7, . 650, 2.88; GMaddux, Chicago, 20-1t, .645, 2.18; KHill, Montreal, 16-9, .640, 2.68. 
STRIKEOUTS-Smoltz, Atlanta, 215; Cone, New York. 214; GMaddux, Chicago, 199; SFernandez, New York, 193; Drabek, Pillsburgh, 177; Rijo, Cincinnati, 171; Benes, San Diego, 169. 
SAVES-LeSmith, St. Louis. 43; Myers, San Diego, 38; Wetteland, Montreal, 37; DJones, Houston, 36; MtWilliams, Philadelphia, 29; Charhon, Cincinnati, 26; Dibble, Cincinnati. 25. 
( 
NEW YORK RANGERS-Agreed to terms with Alexei Kovalev, right wing. 
PHILADELPHIA FLYERS-Assigned Chris Jensen, Lance Pitlick and Ryan McGill to Hershey ol the American Hockey League. Sent Jason Bowen, forward, to Tri-City of !he Western Hockey 
League. Released Daryl Reaugh, goalie.  .  
PITTSBURGH  PENGUINS-Signed  Marta  
Lemieux, center, to a seven-year contract.  

QUEBEC NORDIQUES-Assigned Herb Raglan and Chris Simon, forwards, and David Karpa, de­tenseman. to FrederiCion of the Amencan Hockey League. 
SAN JOSE SHARKS-Assigned Don Barber and Larry DePalma, left wings, to Kansas Ctty ol the International Hockey League. 
ST. LOUIS BLUES-Assigned Denny Felsner, right wing, and Parris Duffus. goalie, to Peona of the International Hockey League. 
VANCOUVER CANUCKS-Signed Stephana Morin, center, and assigned him to Hamilton of the American Hockey League. SOCCER National Profeoaional Soccer League 
CHICAGO POWER-Signed Greg Muhr, de­tenseman to a two-year contract. Named Tom Canney di;ector of sales and Denise Wilmer publtc relations intern. 

CAPP Honor Society Presents 
The Travelers 
Wednesday, October 7, 1992 Room 222 Hesburgh Library 
7-8 p.m. 

Come and see why you are better off Under the Umbrella. 
STUDY & TRAVEL IN THE ORIENT 
Saint Mary's College 

Orientation Session 

Tuesday, October 6 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium Full Semester of Study in Madras, India Travel Includes: Japan, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Philippines, Thailand, Nepal and India plus optional time in Europe 
All ND and SMC Students Eligible All Credits Transferable 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

BATTING-EMartinez, Seallle, .343; Puckell, Minnesota, .329; Thomas, Chicago, .323; Molitor, Milwaukee, .320; Mack, Minnesota, .315; Baerga, Cleveland, .312; RAiomar, Toronto, .310. . 
RUNS-Phillips, Detroit, 114; Thomas, Chtcago, 108· RAiomar, Toronto. 105; Knoblauch, Min~esota, 104; Puckett, Minnesota, 104; Raines, Chicago, 102; Mack, Minnesota, 101. 
RBI-Fiekler, Detroit, 124; Carter, Toronto, 119; Thomas, Chicago, 115; Belle, Cleveland, 112; GBell, Chicago, 112; Puckett, Minnesota, 110; JuGonzalez, Texas, 109. 
HITS-Puckett, Minnesota, 210; Baerga, Cleveland, 205; Molitor, Milwaukee, 195; Mack, Minnesota, 189; Thomas, Chicago, 185; Matttngty, New York, 184; EMartinez, Seattle, 181. . 
DOUBLES-Thomas, Chicago, 46; EMarttnez, Seallle, 46; Mattingly, New York, 40; Yount, Milwaukee, 40; Griffey, Seattle, 39; Ventura, Chicago, 38; Pucken, Minnesota, 38. 
TRIPLES-LJohnson, Chicago, 12; Devereaux, Baltimore, 11; Anderson, Baltimore, 1 0; Raines, Chicago, 9; Lofton. Cleveland, 8; RAiomar, Toronto, 8; 5 are tied with 7. 
HOME RUNS-JuGonzalez, Texas, 43; McGwire, Oakland, 42; Fielder, Detroit, 35; Belle, Cleveland, 34; Carter, Toronto, 34; Deer, Detroit, 32; Tettleton, Detroit, 32. 
STOLEN BASES-Lolton, Cleveland, 66; 
Listach, Milwaukee, 54; Anderson, Baltimore, 53; 
Po ionia, California, 51; RAiomar. Toronto, 49; 
RHenderson, Oakland, 48; Raines, Chicago, 45. 
PITCHING (18 Decisions)-Mussina, 
Bahimore, 18-5, .783, 2.54; JaMorris, Toronto, 21­
6, .778, 4.04; JuGuzman, Toronto, 16-5, .762, 2.64; 
Bosio, Milwaukee, 16-6, .727, 3.62; McDowell, 
Chicago, 20-10, .667, 3.18; KBrown, Texas, 21-11, 
.656, 3.32; App19r, Kansas City, 15-8, 652, 2.46 
STRIKEOUTS-RJohnson, Seallle, 241 
Perez, New York, 218; Clemens. Boston, 208; 
JsGuzman, Texas, 179; McDowell, Chtcago, 178; 
Langston, Calnornia, 174; KBrown. Texas. 173. 
SAVES-Ecker~ley, Oakland, 51; Agutlera, 
Minnesota, 41; Montgomery, Kansas City, 39; 
Olson, Baltimore, 36; Henke, Toronto. 34; Farr. 
New York. 30; JeRussell, Oakland, 30. 
There's only one way to come out ahead of the pack. 

I 
I 

AMERICAN CONFERENCE  
East  
W L T  Pet.  PF PA  
Miami 4 0 0  1.000  109 60  
Buffalo 4 1 0  .800  163 82  
Indianapolis 2 2 0  .500  48 75  
N.Y. Jets 1 4 0  .200  81 117  
New England 0 4 0  .000  34 95  
Central  
Houston 3 1 0  .750  94 59  
Pittsburgh 3 1 0  .750  82 57  
Cincinnati 2 2 0  .500  75 90  
Cleveland 1 3 0  .250  54 69  
Weal  
Denver 4 1 0  .800  70 75  
Kansas City 3 2 0  .600  116 67  
LA Raklers 1 4 0  .200  70 106  
Sim Diego 1 4 0  .200  46 101  
Seallle 1 4 0  .200  43 89  
NATIONAL CONFERENCE  
East  
W L T  Pet.  PF PA  
Dallas 3 0 0  1.000  88 58  
Philadelphia 3 0 0  1.000  76 27  
Washington 2 2 0  .500  71 77  
N.Y. Giants 1 3 0  .250  79 92  
Phoenix 3 0  .250  68 109  
Central  
Minnesota 4 1 0  .800  129 98  
Tampa Bay 3 2 0  .600  115 83  
Chicago 2 3 0  .400  108 131  
Green Bay 2 3 0  .400  74 104  
Detroit 1 4 0  .200  95 97  
West  
San Francisco4 1 0  .800  136 96  
New Orleans 3 2 0  .600  74 51  
Atlanta 2 3 0  .400  99 102  
LA Rams 2 3 0  .400  73 103  
Monday's Game  
Dallas at Philadelphia, late.  
Sunday, Oct. 11  
Atlanta at Miami, 1 p.m.  
Philadelphia at Kansas City, 1 p.m.  

Phoenix at New York Giants, 1 p.m. Pittsburgh at Cleveland, 1 p.m . San Francisco at New England, 1 p.m. Seattle at Dallas. 1 p.m. Buffalo at Los Angeles Raiders. 4 p.m. Houston at Cincinnati, 4 p.m. New York Jets at Indianapolis, 4 p.m. Los Angeles Rams at New Orleans, 7;30 p.m. 
No gain.No pain. 
Keeptng your weight at a moderate level may scale down your risk of heart attack. So matntatn a heai!'lY dtet and lighten up on your heart 

•
YAmerican Heart Association 


• 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE FEES • FREE FIRST ORDER OF When you write 8 checks or less CHECKS Standard design 

• 
NO MINIMUM BALANCE • PAYS INTEREST AT COMPETITIVE RATES 

• 
FREE INSTANT CASH ATMACCESS 


Corne to expect the best. 
NORWEST BANKS 
South Bend • New Carlisle • Granger 
Norwest Bank Indiana, N.A. © 1991 Norwest Bank Indiana Member FDIC 

----------------~----~-------­
Tuesday October 6,1992 The Observer page 13 
Lemieux signs $42 million deal 

To Mary Kate 
Happy 18th Birthday 
Love, Mom, Dad & everyone 
[/[ 
FOR JUNIOR NURSING STUDENTS 
A NURSING EXPERIENCE AT MAYO FOUNDATION HOSPITALS­ROCHESTER, MN 
Here is your opportunity to work at Mayo Medical Center for the summer. 
Summer Ill is a paid, supervised hospital work experience at Saint Marys Hospital and Rochester Methodist Hospital, both part of Mayo Medical Center in Rochester, Minnesota. 
You are eligible for Summer Ill after your junior year of a four year baccalaureate nursing program. It includes experience on medical and surgical nursing units or in operating rooms. 
Application Deadline: December 1, 1992. For more information contact: 

Mayo Medical Center 
Nursing Recruitment P.O. Box 6057 Rochester, Minnesota 55903 1-800-247-8590 
Mayo Foundation is an affirmdtive action and equal opportunity educator and employer. A smoke-free institution. 
PITTSBURGH (AP) -Mario Lemieux became the highest paid player in hockey today, signing a seven-year contract with the Pittsburgh Penguins worth a reported $42 million. 
Announcement of the deal was made by the Penguins on the occasion of Lemieux's 27th birthday and on the eve of the NHL season opener Tuesday night. 
"I guess we just gave Mario his birthday present today," said agent Tom Reich, who negotiated the deal with the defending Stanley Cup champions. 

Lemieux's record-setting contract will pay him nearly twice what any other player in the NHL is making. Philadelphia's Eric Lindros, who will face the Penguins on Tuesday night in Pittsburgh, 
. . . Ap Filephoto signed a six-year deal worth $21 million earlier Mario Lemieux, shown here rehab1htatmg ~~er 1990 th. back surgery signed a record ?year, $42 million deal.
ffi~R • 

Lemieux's contract replaces th!) final two years in a radio interview in Montreal when he said he on his five-year, $12 million deal that had placed was close to signing a seven-year, $42-million him fourth on the NHL salary scale. The money contract. Some reports said the contract was he'll earn during the course of the deal equals worth as much as $45 million. almost two-thirds of the $65 million Penguins· The 6-foot-4, 210-pound center is recognized as owner Howard Baldwin paid for the franchise in hockey's top player, having led the Penguins to 
1991. two straight Stanley Cup championships. Both Baldwin said during the summer he wanted to years, Lemieux was voted the most valuable sign Lemieux to a long-term deal that would bind player in the playoffs. He also won the NHL's him to the Penguins for the rest of his career and rookie of the year award in 1984-85, the MVP 
beyond. award for the 1987-88 season and has been the Lemieux said he would play the seven years as All-Star MVP three times. long as his troublesome back, which caused him to Lemieux, who has led the NHL in scoring three 
miss the first 50 games of 1990-91 and 16 games times since coming into the league in 1984, has last season. holds up. 408 goals and 606 assists for 1,014 points in 517 The Penguins were secretive about the deal, but regular-season games. In 49 playoff games, he 
Lemieux actually broke the story himself last week has 44 goals, 53 assists and 97 points. 
OFFICE OF ~ECF E.-\ f!O~:\L SPORTS 

CAMPUS BADMINTON-MEN AND WOMEN UNDERGRADUATES GRADUATE STUDENTS FACULTY AND STAFF 
VOLLEYBALL IHMEN IHWOMEN 
CO-REC BASKETBALL 
ENTRIES BEGIN SEPT 28 ENTRY DEADLINE -OCTOBER 7 

Men golfers hold second 
Special to The Observer 
The Sherwin-Williams MCC Men's Golf Championship com­pleted the first two of three rounds of play on Monday at the Brookwood Golf Course in Buchanan, Michigan. 
Xavier, winner of the tour­nament the last two years, leads the tournament after two rounds. Their second-round to­tal of 310 gave the Musketeers a six shot lead over Notre Dame, with whom they were tied at 309 after the first round. 
Davis Boland of Dayton and David von Haefen of Xavier led all golfers with two round totals of 151. Boland birdied three of the last four holes to shoot a second round total of 72, the lowest round of the day. Von Haefen bogeyed the eighteenth hole to fall into a tie with Boland. 
Xavier's Jon Sweeten shot 153, two shots behind the pace, to place third. Chris Day­ton, co-captain of the Fighting Irish and medalist in last years tournament, led the field with a three over par first-round score of 75, but slipped to a second-round total of 79 to drop into a fourth place tie with Detroit Mercy's John Cook. 
Cole Hanson, only a stroke behind those two, comes in as Notre Dame's second golfer with a two round tally of 155. He is tied with two others golfers in the sixth position. 
The tournament finishes to­day with the third and final round beginning in the morn­ing. 
MAPLE LANE BARBERSHOP 
HOURS: MON-FRI 8:00-5:30 SAT 8:00-3:00 2112 South Bend Avenue Appointments if desired 
272,6722 
Serving tftt 'J.{gtre 'Dame communityfor over 30 years 
-

-

....
------------------------------~--------------------------~----------------­
page 14 The Observer Tuesday, October 6, 1992 
Fielder finishes season with third straight RBI crown 
Martinez and Sheffield take league batting 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
NEW YORK (AP) -Cecil 
Fielder has gone where only 
one other baseball player has 
gone before. And that was Babe 
Ruth. 
Fielder finished the season 
Sunday with 124 runs batted in 
to lead the major leagues in 
RBis for the third consecutive 
year, only the second time in 
history that feat has been ac­
complished. 
The Bambino did it in 1919 through 1921, and the first year was before RBis became an official statistic. 
Fielder had 133 RBis last year and 132 in 1990. He hit 51 homers in his first season in Detroit, batting .277., Then he hit 44 homers last year, batting .277. This year, he batted .244 and hit 35 home runs. 
''I'm proud of what I've ac­complished, especially because it hasn't been all roses," said Fielder, who credits playing on a team that emphasizes offense with helping him get his RBis. "This team can score a lot of runs and I'm just one of the reasons. 
"When you've got guys with 30 homers throughout the order, you know there going to be some good pitches to hit over the season." 
Fielder led the majors or the American League in only one category this season. 
Edger Martinez and Gary Sheffield won their first batting titles Sunday while sitting the bench. Fred McGriff won the NL home run title with 35, the lowest total for an NL champion in a complete season since 1946. 
Roger Clemens, who won his third consecutive AL ERA title 
Mets sorry for poor season 
NEW YORK (AP) -The New York Mets, embarrassed by their second straight fifth-place finish and their first 90-loss season since 1983, apologized to their fans in full page adver­tisements in four newspapers today. 
The ads, addressed to the fans, read, "Our season wasn't exactly one to remember. We were just as disappointed as we know you were. But what we won't soon forget is all of you who came to Shea (Stadium), despite our many injuries, de-
Correction: 
In yesterday's Observer, the photo of women's soccer player Michelle McCarthy ran on page 3 instead of page 14. The Observer regrets the error. 

for Boston and his fourth overall at 2.41, became the first AL pitcher to lead in ERA for three straight seasons since Lefty Grove of the Philadelphia Athletics from 1929-32. 
Martinez hit . 343 and became the first Seattle Mariner to win an AL batting title, finishing 14 points ahead of Minnesota's Kirby Puckett. It was the high­est batting average in the AL since Boston's Wade Boggs hit .366 in 1988. 
Sheffield, who flirted with a run at the NL triple crown, fin­ished at .330 for the San Diego Padres, six points ahead of Pittsburgh's Andy Van Slyke. 
McGriff, who reached 30 homers for the fifth straight season, had the lowest total for an NL leader since Mike Schmidt hit 31 in the strike­shortened season of 1981. Not counting that year, it's the low­est total to lead the NL since Pittsburgh's Ralph Kiner hit 23 in 1946. 
Juan Gonzalez won the AL home run title by hitting his 43rd Sunday for Texas, beating Oakland's Mark McGwire by one. Gonzalez, 22, is the team's first home run champion since Frank Howard hit 44 in 1970, when it was the Washington Senators. 
Darren Daulton of the Philadelphia Phillies led the NL with 109 RBis, while Pitts­burgh's Barry Bonds led in runs with 109 and Atlanta's Terry Pendleton and Van Slyke tied for the lead in hits with 199 each. Pendleton led last year with 187. 
Marquis Grissom of the Mon­treal Expos won his second straight NL steals title with 78. 
spite the economy, despite even the bad weather." 
The ad, which appeared in the New York Daily News, New York Post, New York Times and New York Newsday, continued, "they say when you're down and out, you find out who your true friends are. We were happy to discover we still had true friends, by the millions. 
"So thank you Mets Fans and thank you New York. 
"Spring training is only four months away. We can hardly wait. 
while Kenny Lofton of Cleveland led the AL with 66. It was only the second time since 1980 that Rickey Henderson didn't lead that category, and it was the first time a Cleveland player led since 1906. when Elmer Flick tied Washington's John Anderson at 39. 
Tony Phillips of Detroit topped the AL in runs with 114, the first Tiger to win that category since Ron LeFlore had 126 in 1978. Puckett won his fourth hits title with 210; he led in 1988 and 1989 and tied Kevin Seitzer for the lead in 1987. 
McGwire led the AL in slug­ging percentage at .585, while Chicago's Frank Thomas led in on-base percentage at .439. 
Bonds' .624 slugging per­centage was the second-highest total in the NL since Hank Aaron's .669 in 1971, also trail­ing Kevin Mitchell's .635 in 1989. Bonds also led the league in on-base percentage at .459. 
Jack Morris of the Toronto Blue Jays and Kevin Brown of the Texas Rangers tied for the AL lead in victories with 21. Tom Glavine of Atlanta and Greg Maddux of the Chicago Cubs tied for the NL victory lead at 20. 
Bill Swift of the San Francisco Giants won the NL ERA title at 2.08, while John Smoltz of the Braves beat out David Cone for the strikeout title, 215-214. Cone, traded by the New York Mets to Toronto in August, had won in 1990 and 1991. He sort of led in '92 also, since he fanned 45 for the Blue Jays for a 259 total. 



R E S E R V E OFFICERS' 
Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds of 

talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1000 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify. 
ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
Call Captain Selling, 239-6264 or 6986 for more information. 
TRAINING C 0 R P S 
fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­books and supplies. You can also receive 
-
---~----~----------------------------~----------------------------------~----------­
'
Today 

Tuesday, October 6,1992 page 15 
SPELUNKER JAY HOSLER THE FAR SIDE GARY LARSON 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Wl-lf..T STaR'{ WJU) '(O\l LIKE TOt{\G\-\P WE CAN R8\D 
/1.1-l'\\\-\\N.G t.XC£.\)1... 
-----~----­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Or leave­but in the cup": Jonson 
&Smack 10 Judge's seat 14 Entire range 15 Henry's last 
Catherine 16 Pianist Gilels 17 "But war's­
...":Cowper 18Dies­19 Caron movie 20 Vacation place 22 Pearl or ruby 23 Sign-language 
pioneer 24 Collect on a surface, as a gas 
21 "Diamo~ds are 
30 La. marshy inlet 
32 Prestige 33 Right of way 37 Oil: Comb. form 
38 Watson-Crick subject 39 Eleventh-century date 40 Self-deception 43 Originate 45 Twilled worsted 46Lyricist for 19 Across 47 Mouse's sound 50 Bath byproducts 51 Groan provoker 52 Gershwin song 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~tm!t!:tl~lll~~mlll.
1.! 
8;...:+:;+::~ 
58 Appraise 
60 The cheaper spread &1 Red dye 62 Dry 63 Domino 64 Aroma 65 Links needs 
&&Gaelic 67 Projections supporting rudders 
DOWN 
1 Ottoman officials 2 Bird of New Caledonia 3 Muslim scholar 4Gazebo 5 Church tower &Zest 1 Julie Christie role &Composer Khachaturian 9 Settles 
beforehand
10 Ask for alms 11 Pedro's pal 
6=+:::-t:::-t 12 Gulf of Guinea feeder ~~--:::+:,:+:~~ .ioof.:-;+::+:::+.:::-"""""'~+='--~ 13 Ascend ~~+=-i 21 Staff symbol r.:!~~~-25 Bambi's mother 
~  2& Seasonal  
entertainment  
"":+.~+:-i  27 Scored  
smashingly  
=.....~~  21 Gust  

Lool<, ~0\l KNOW \-\OW 1\-\~ 
S\OR'\ (:J::iE."S ! 'IOU''J£ ME.tllaR\7£t> ~t. W\-\0\£. T\-\l~G .' ITS 1\-\t. 'Silo.t<\E STOR'( E.'lt.R'{ DF\'{ .' 
r----L....-­


35Word on a 
50 Kind of screen 

marquee 
53 Suffix with cell 

36 Bleachers row 
54 Teen-ager's

38 Fala or Millie 
room, frequently 41 Rachel Carson subject 
BILL WATTERSON 
I)() ~0\J Tf-1\NK 
1\1£ \O'tU'ISR)LK 
Wlll EI/ER FIND 1-\N'-\'SITR 1-\\JE'Is 
1-\EfiJ)? 
55 Understanding words 
56 Porcelain­producing dynasty 
57 Tolkien's tree 
people 59Asner and Sullivan 

42 Exasperating Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
43 Detective's find 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

44 Compensation 
Calvin and Hobbes 
CAMPUS 
Tuesday 

6:30 p.m. Undergraduate Student Information Program: "How to Choose a Major: Options, Opinions and Opportunities," Harold Attridge, Dian Murray and Frank Jonello. Lounge, Hesburgh Library. Sponsored by Collegiate 
Office for Undergraduate Studies and College Fellow's Office. 
8 p.m. Multicultural Fall Festival. "Cultural Cafe," fea­turing Puerto Rican storyteller and folklorist Carmen Alicia Morales, the Infancia American Song and Dance Group. Ballroom, LaFortune Student Center. 
Wednesday Noon. Multicultural Fall Festival. "Culture on the Quad," featuring food and entertainment. Fieldhouse Mall. Noon. Multicultural Fall Festival Fireside Chats, "The Middle East," Matta Khalil. Lounge, second floor LaFortune 
LECTURES 
Tuesday 

12:30 p.m. Lecture: "Changing Gender Roles of Women in Pentecostal Churches and Christian Base Communities," Carol Drogus, Hamilton College. Room C-103, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
4:15 p.m. Lecture: "Equality Now! Human Rights as if Women Mattered," Jessica Neuwwirth, president of Equality Now. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
MENU Notre Dame 
Country Fried Steak Grilled Pollack Cheese Enchiladas 
Saint Mary's 
Potato Bar Chinese Bar Lasagna 
by Bill Watterson 

! 
I 
1 
I 
I I I I I I I I I 1 
1 
I l 
1 
l 
1 
I 
1 
I 
-

.. 


1------------­
1 . page16 
Sports 
Tuesday, October 6, !992 

t 
I 
! 
! 
I ! 
I I I 
~ 
I I I I I r r 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
~ 
I I 
I 
f 
-
JIM 

Third-place finishes season for women's golf 
VOGL 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team
Chalk Talk 
finished its fall season last weekend with l--:=--~:-:--------~=--~-1 its best performance of the fall. 
Funding cuts to high school athletics will leaVe many SCarS 
There is a significant disaster developing in Chicago's public high schools. 
For those of you who haven't seen the front pages of the Chicago Tribune or the inside pages of the South Bend Tribune, a storm is brewing in the city's high school athletic departments. 
According to the Chicago Tribune, the city's Board of Education recently made $1.5 million in cuts, representing 43 percent of all extra-curricular activity funding. 
Now school administrators are scrambling to find private donors to restore that funding by the November 1 deadline set by the Chicago Teachers Union and principles of the city's 75 public high schools. 
A Chicago radio station has offered to raise $800,000 needed to keep extracurricular activities alive through the remainder of the school year, ac­cording to Superintendent Ted Kimbrough. 
Kimbrough also appealed to the city's professional sports teams, marquee players and coaches for donations; however, most said they already contribute significantly and have little leeway in giving more. 
Yet while most coaches and Athletic Directors seemed confident the crisis would be resolved before their seasons start, Kimbrough admits the costs in funding and the appeals for donations are "just a Band-Aid approach." 
Whatever the outcome, this crisis presents a scary thought. 
Last year when the University cut the varsity wrestling program, wrestlers, students and coaches stood in disbelief and outrage. 
Being active participants in high school extracurriculars, few students could imagine a limit being imposed on their opportunities at a place that stresses a well-rounded range of experiences. 
Now, our nation's third largest metropolis could be in danger of losing its entire extracurricular program for public high schools. 
Forget about the selfish perspective of how it might affect the athletic recruiting process of Notre Dame or any other college. 
Instead, imagine how many high school students use athletics as a motivating factor to get by academically, or to afford to continue their education in college. 
Imagine how these students from predominantly poor neighborhoods would spend their time if their afternoons and weekend evenings are no longer occupied by practices and games. 
Now, imagine a high school without football or basketball teams. Imagine a high school without cheerleaders, or a band. 
Imagine a high school without a National Honors Society or even a chess club. 
At present, it isn't that hard to do. 
INSIDE SPORTS 
•Men's 
goH at MCC 

•MLB 
season leaders 


see page 14 
•Lemieux signs record deal 
see page 13 
~------------------------~~ 
The Irish placed third in the Ohio State 
Lady Buckeye Fall Invitational with a three-round total of 985, 14 shots behind second-place Indiana, and the 
tournament winner, Ohio State. 
Women's golf coach, Tom Hanlon was pleased by the team's performance. 
"It was a good way to end the season. We beat Michigan, Nebraska and Iowa. 
Eagles beat Dallas on two Walker touchdowns 
PHILADELPHIA (AP) -Before Monday night's showdown, Herschel Walker niftly dodged inquiries about his desire for revenge against the Dallas Cowboys for trading him. 
Then he went out and niftly dodged the Cowboys, scoring touchdowns on runs of 9 and 16 yards and rushing for 86 yards on 19 carries as he and the Philadelphia defense combined to beat Dallas 31-7 in a battle of the NFC's last two unbeatens. 
That defense, led by linebackers Seth Joyner, Byron Evans and William Thomas, got four turnovers -three interceptions and a fumble recovery that led to three touchdowns and denied the Cowboys another. The Eagles broke away with three touchdowns in the final 20 minutes. 
It was just another chapter in the sad saga of Dallas quarterback Troy Aikman against the Eagles, who now lead the NFC East at 4-0, while the Cowboys fell to 3-1. 
Aikman, sacked 11 times by the Eagles in Dallas last year and knocked out of a game here two years ago with a separated shoulder, was flushed from the pocket by Reggie White on the first play of the game and forced to ground the ball, setting a pattern that con­tinued throughout. 
Two plays later, John Booty picked off a pass over the middle, returned it to the 14 and set up a 2-yard bootleg for a TD by Randall Cunningham four plays later. 
Belles look to recover against Kalamazoo 
By KILEY COBLE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team was not able to top the University of Saint Thomas this Saturday, losing 1-0. "It was a pretty even match. We just couldn't score against them," coach Tom VanMeter said. 
"Everyone individually did very well, especially our forwards Megan Dalsaso and Stacy Winget," said VanMeter, noting also that goalie Mary Beth Berger showed a strong performance in the second half holding off many goal attempts. 
Captain Kristen Crowley said the loss was difficult because the team didn't play with the intensity they needed to win. "This showed us what we need to do to win against the next three teams we are scheduled to play. They are all very good teams and this serves as an awakening to test" our abilities," she continued . 

The Belles will need that missing intensity when they travel to Kalamazoo College on Tuesday. Kalamazoo repre­The Observer 1Jake Peters sented this area in the NCAA 
Saint Mary's soccer looks to get back on track against Kalamazoo College tournament last year. 
These are teams that we have never beaten before. I was really hoping to do something like this, especially on such a good golf course. The Scarlet Golf Course at Ohio State is one of the best in the country." 
The Irish were led by senior captain Kathy Phares, junior Crissy Klein, and freshman Julie Melby, who each shot a three-round total of 244 to tie for seventh. The tournament medalist was Ohio State's Tami Dougan who shot 217 for the weekend. 
Coach Hanlon expects the team to 
The Cowboys came baek to tie it on a 7-yard pass from Aikman to Kelvin Martin and the Cowboys took a 10-7 lead on Roger Ruzek's 40-yard field goal with 1:34 left in the first quarter. 
Then came perhaps the crucial turnover. 
With Dallas at third-and-goal at the Eagles 2, Aikman rolled right, threw toward the end zone and the ball was deflected by Thomas into the hands of Wes Hopkins on the goal line. 
Then, with it still 10-7 midway through the third quarter, Aikman hit Alvin Harper for 42 yards to the Philadelphia 44. On the next play, Joyner hit Aikman's arm as he threw and Evans pieked off the ball and took it back 12 yards to the Dallas 45. 
Eight plays later, Walker put it to the team that traded him to the Minnesota Vikings three years ago for 12 players and draft choices, as he went 9 yards into the end zone to make it 17-7. 
He got his second TD early in the fourth quarter after Evans knocked the ball loose from Daryl Johnston and Thomas came out of a scramble with the ball at the Philadelphia 48. 
Four plays later, with the ball at the 16, Walker broke left, cut back and into the end zone, raising the ball 

above his head and simulating a spike, Irish to face Indiana State about as much emotion as he ever Senior Marilyn Cragin and the Irish will take their shows. Walker also caught three #20 ranking against Indiana State tonight at the passes for 14 yards. JACC. The match begins at 7:30. 
continue to do well when they begin golfing again in the spring. ''I'm happy, but I'm not satisfied yet. We can do better. The women are developing confidence and there is much to be gained by continuing to develop our short game. We threw a number of shots away due to our short game this past weekend." 
The Irish will continue the 1992-93 season when they begin golfing again in mid-March. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info. 

.. 







